CHAPEL SERVICES 
RESUME 
THURSDAY NOON
BASKET BALL 
DANCE 
SATURDAY
VOL. XVIII. NO. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1924
Famous Director To Produce Play )R HOLMES TO
:------------------
A delightful little comedy of rustic 1 on the scene and interest in the proj T\ TQf'TTQQ O T CH
English life under the direction of | hibition side of the story receives a JL/lkJvjiJiJvJ Iv 1~/
OF COLLOIDS
Iden Payne, will be the next offering 
.in the Little Theater after the pres
ent run of the League of Youth.
Any lack of dramatic interest in 
the piece will be completely forgot
ten because of the picturesque atmos
phere and quaint provincial humor of 
the comedy.
The owner of The Bird in Hand 
Inn has died and left his property to 
his sister, who is a strict teetotaler 
and temperance woman, with the 
stipulation that she must personally 
manage the public house. Then a 
poetic young bartender and the sis
ters attractive foster daughter come
severe jolt.
Everyone who attends the plays regulary will recall the fine Shakespear
ian production of Mr. Payne. It is in
deed a great pleasure to be able to 
offer so famous a man of the theater 
a laboratory for his ideas and experi
ments.
The play will probably open Jan
uary 16 and will continue for six per
formances. The cast includes Janet 
Millis, Ellen Lane, Mary Power, Ma
bel Eichler, Chas. McCarthy, Joe Laz
arus, Herbert Polesie, Verner Halden, Arvid Crandall, Russell Spindler,
O. B. Newman and Ben Weinblatt.
ORCHESTRA FAILURE 
PROBED BY TARTAN
INDUSTRIES SMOKER IS
POSTPONED UNTIL FEBRUARY
Committee Member Involved 
Furnishes Testimony of 
His Action
The failure of one of Carnegies 
orchestras to put in appearance at 
the Junior Banquet has caused a good 
deal of comment on the campus. It 
is apparent that there was a mutual 
misunderstanding by orchestra and 
committee. Both felt themselves to 
be in the right.
In order that both sides might be 
heard, the Carnegie Tartan asked for 
signed statements from a responsible 
member of the committee and the 
manager of the orchestra. Public ex
planation ought to clear the lnatter. 
The statement of the committee fol
lows:
The Carnegie Tartan:
In response to your request for a 
statement concerning the cancella
tion by a campus orchestra of their 
agreement to play at the Junior Ban
quet on December 15, I respectfully' 
submit the following:
About two weeks before the date 
of the banquet, I arranged with the 
manager of the orchestra, the Car
negie Collegians, to have the orches
tra play at the Junior Banquet. At 
this time, we agreed upon the price 
and the number of men, hours of play
ing, , etc. Considering the matter 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Industries smoker which was 
scheduled for this month has been 
postponed until February. This action 
was thought to be best as examina
tions will be over then.
The committee has been appointed 
and at work on the entertainment. J. 
V. Foster is chairman of the commit
tee and any information concerning 
the smoker can be obtained from him.
CAMPUS PLAN IS 
UP TO TRUSTEES
Future Campus Development 
Remains Uncertain Till 
Board Approves
Colloid Chemistry, Emulsions 
and Gels Will be Topics of 
Noted Scientists Three 
Lectures This Week
IS AUTHOR OF TEXT
The members of the Tar
tan Staff wish to extend to
H. F. Simpson, editor^nchief of the Carnegie Tartan, 
their sincere sympathy in the 
loss of his father, F. R. Simp-, 
son, at his home in Birming
ham, Alabama, on January 2, 
1924.
M. M. JUNIORS PLAN 
BIG RUMMAGE SALE
COUNCIL DRAWS 
UP CHANGES IN 
BANQUET RULES
---------------
Dates to be Made Public in 
Student Calendar Annually 
 Upper Classmen Will 
Supervise Contests
Sine Nomine to Give 
Scholarship Dance
Feature Dance Scheduled 
For Friday Evening
The Sine Nomine Club will hold a 
scholarship dance next Friday even
ing, January 11. This is the first 
time .that the club has in any way en
deavored to run a public entertain
ment to raise funds for the scholar
ship which they give each year. They 
expect a crowd which will tax the 
"tJnion to its capacity.
A feature of the dance will be the' 
contest for the best dancers. Any 
couple may enter and it is planned to 
have each fraternity, as well as all 
other organizations on the campus, 
represented.
They say that good dancers are few 
and far between, so here is a -chance 
for all to strut their stuff. Besides 
theres a handsome prize offered to 
the winning couple.
ENGLISH PROF. PROVES
A WELL-KNOWN POET
Undoubtedly it is not generally 
known that there is on the Carnegie 
campus a bona-fide poet, whose work 
is being published in the foremost 
magazines of the country, such as 
Poetry, The Laughing Hoi*se, and 
many others.
The individual is Mr. Clarence 
David Greenhood, instructor of Eng
lish here. His work has been receiv
ing favorable comment from distin
guished critics for the last five years.
Some of his latest work appeared a 
short time ago in Palms, a magazine 
of which Mr. Greenwood is contribut
ing Editor.
Plans for the future development 
of the campus are at present in a 
nebulous state. Since the foundation 
of the school three separate plans 
have been prepared to meet the re
quirements which appeared urgent at 
different times. Before any of them" 
became effective it was found advis
able to discard them because of 
changing conditions.
The situation at present rests with 
the Board of Trustees. No definite in
formation can be given until the chair
man announces the Boards decision. 
It is, known, of course, that the school 
intends to buy the remaining proper
ties along Forbes street, necessary to 
round out the campus.
Different proposals for the use of 
Langley Laboratory and the Field 
House are being considered. Langley 
Laboratory will probably house either 
the Commons or the Automotive Re
search Department.
There is little possibility that the 
unfinished end of Science Building 
will be completed for many years. 
The Y hut is expected to serve as 
the library for a long time. No 
change in the girls dormitories is con
templated just now.
The Board of Trustees will prob
ably decide upon a plan this winter. 
All campus projects remain in a 
state of uncertainty until they grant 
the required appropriations.
Colloid Chemistry is the subject 
of the first of a series of lectures to 
be given by Dr. Harry N. Holmes on 
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 
nights of this week.
Dr. Holmes is widely known in the 
realm of scientific research, being 
noted especially for his work in col
loidal chemistry. This branch of 
chemistry is practically new, and its, 
great possibilities are recognized by 
the wide-awake scientists of the day. 
The announcement of the lectures 
was hailed with enthusiasm by those 
Pittsburghers who are scientifically 
inclined, and the lectures promise, to 
attract large gatherings.
Dr. Holmes is a native Pennsylva
nian, having been born in Lawrence 
county. He attended Westminster 
College where he received his B.S. 
and M.S. degrees. Later he received 
a Ph.D. degree from Johns Hopkins 
University. Since 1914 he has been 
at Oberlin College, where he is Pro
fessor of Chemistry and head of the 
Chemistry Department.
Aside from his research work Dr. 
Holmes, is the author of a recent book 
entitled "General Chemistry, which 
is used as a text book by Carnegie 
Tech Freshmen who are taking 
courses in Inorganic Chemistry.
At the election of officers of the 
American Chemical Society for 1924, 
Dr. Holmes was elected one of the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Sale to be on January 12th at 
Broad and Larimer 
Avenues
COLONEL CUNNINGHAM 
HURT IN AUTO SMASHUP
On the evening of January 2, short
ly after eight oclock, near the East 
Liberty Station, whither he was 
bound, Colonel Cunningham met with 
a serious accident. While driving 
slowly, preparing to turn the corner, 
the Colonel saw a car approaching 
from the opposite direction, and at
tempted to avoid a smash-up by put
ting on his brakes. The night was 
wet, and the streets were slippery, 
so the possibility of turning out of 
the way of the oncoming car were 
eliminated.
The driver of the other machine, 
Mr. Siviter, of the Pierpont Siviter 
Co., printers and stationers, evidently 
paid little attention to the actions of 
the Colonel, and an accident was un
avoidable. The Siviter car hit the 
Colonels car directly on the front 
corner, and administered a severe 
shakeup to the Colonel and his ,wife, 
who was accompanying him to the 
station. In addition to the shakeup, 
the car was badly damaged.
After the bump, Mr. Siviter said 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Girls Glee Club to be 
Broadcasted via KDKA
Program of Unusual Merit 
Has Been Prepared
In 1906 They Made Tech Beer
Now Its Ice Cream They Cheer
Back in 1906, when present Car
negie students were probably playing 
Indian" or making mud pies in the 
back yard, Carnegie Tech was the 
participant in a battle, the cause of 
which j niay have indirectly added im
petus to the prohibition move.
A local brewing company with the 
mistaken idea of-conferring honor up
on the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, gave the name Tech beer to 
one of its products and used the plaid 
of Andrew Carnegie for advertising 
purposes. This, to quote Mr. McConway, a member of the board of 
trustees, was a blot on the escutch
eon of the school.
From the files of the Tartan of 
April .12, 190G. may be quoted as fol
lows Mr. McConway said that the 
company has used the plaid in its 
advertising, and, while it did not say 
so directly, intimates so broadly that 
no one can fail to see, that the name 
has been derived from the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, and that the 
companys action is a disgrace to the
school.
To make a long story shortpublic 
feeling ran high against the brewing 
company, and the case was taken to 
court, where it was defeated, inas
much as the lawyers declared that 
the name Tech had no bearing on 
Carnegie, but signified that the beer 
was made according to a technical 
process.
So it was left to time, in the shape 
of the prohibition movement to de
feat the purpose of the brewing com
pany, and now nothing worse than ice 
cream flies the plaid banner.
Since no harm has come through 
the whole affair, there is one angle 
to itr which gives us peculiar satisfac
tion, and which after all is the crux 
of the whole situation. In spite of 
being bill-boarded all over the coun
try for advertising purposes, Carnegie 
students can hold their heads higher 
than ever, since the identity of Car
negie has never been lost, and the 
Plaid still remains her own especial 
banner.
Elaborate preparations for an un
usually interesting program have been 
made by the Girls Glee Club in antic
ipation of the first concert of the 
season to be given on January 11, at 
the KDKA broadcasting station at 
East Pittsburgh. The Glee Club is 
broadcasting this concert ror the spe
cial entertainment of their parents 
and friends in other cities who would 
not, otherwise, have an opportunity 
of hearing them. The program, which 
has been carefully selected, covors a 
wide range, and promises a series of 
successful concerts which will ulti
mately load to the most important 
event on the Glee Club calendarthe 
Home Concert.
Part of the program for January 11 
is as follows:
The Hawthorne Tree................Wooler
Summer Night ...PI. Cough-Leighter
One Spring Morning..............E. Nevln
Land of Memory ...................Marshall
Indian Mountain Song............Cadman
It will include the following num
bers which are being sung for the 
first time:
I Hear the Bees A-Hummin............
........................ Bainbridge-Zamecnic
My Lady Cole-----.H. Cough-Leighter
They Met on a Twig of a Chestnut
Tree ................................... Robinson
The Whispering of the Welkin.... 
............................................. MarshallHONORARY ELECTRICAL 
FRATERNITY INITIATES
Just before the Christmas holidays 
an initiation was heldr by Theta Kappa 
Nu, honorary electrical fraternity, in 
which six men were admitted to the 
local chapter. There are now about 
12 men in the electrical department 
composing this fraternity.
Theta Kappa Nu was installed on 
the campus just last year when the 
local fraternity, Alpha Kappa Epsilon, 
was nationalized. It chooses men 
from the upper classes of the Elec
trical Engineering Department from 
time to time, basing its selection on 
the scholarship and activities of the 
individual.
It is planned to have Theta Kappa 
Nu handle the electrical work during 
campus week. Besides this an active 
program has been laid out, beginning 
with an electrical smoker for the de
partment, to be held soon.
Automatic Press Feeder 
Installed in Print Shop
An automatic feeder for the large 
Miehle press in the Printing Depart
ment was installed during the holi
days. The feeder is a loan to the 
school from the Dexter Folding Ma
chine Company, the manufacturer.
Since a great many of the presses 
used now are fed automatically, it is 
important that the students of print
ing learn how they are operated and 
to what extent they may be used. 
Classes have already been held to 
teach the operation of the new feed
er.
With the return of the Junior class 
at Margaret Morrison, from the 
Christmas recess, plans are once more 
set into operation for their biggest 
social event, the Junior Prom, Jan
uary IS, at the Hotel Sclienley. Al
though the main plans are completed, 
there are still details to be given at
tention in order that this affair may 
be an ideal college Prom.
The music and favors have been de
cided. The Rainbow Serenaders who 
have excellent reputations as enter
tainers are coming from Altoona to do 
some unusual and novel things. The 
favors for both men and women are 
said to be attractive and useful but 
of course, the secret of just what they 
are will not be disclosed until that 
evening.
Every possible way of increasing 
the fund in the class treasury has 
been invented. The usual payment of 
class dues and the Prom assessment 
itself have been found insufficient for 
paying the heavy expenses. Tire class 
has already held a tea dance in the 
Union and a cake and candy sale in 
the tea room of Margaret Morrison. 
Since the proceeds from these affairs 
were encouraging, a rummage sale 
will be held Saturday, January 12tli, 
at the corner of Broad street and Lari
mer avenue. In ordor to make the 
rummage sale a success, the girls 
wish all organizations on the campus 
to contribute to the worthy cause.
Get your contributions readya mo
tor truck will call for them in a short 
time.
Castle Donates Cup 
For Best Marksman
Honorary Military Fraternity 
to Honor Winner
The Castle, the honorary fratornity 
of the Military Hinglnoer Unit at Car
negie Tech, will offer a silver trophy 
cup to the man having the highest 
average score of the military rlflo 
team in the five matches that are to 
bo shot off In the noxt three months. 
The records of each inombor of 'the 
team will be averaged and tho one 
having the highest average will win 
the cup. In the cuso of n tie those 
having the same score will shoot a 
match and the winner of that will re
ceive the cup.
The five matches that the rifle team 
have are with the University of Ne
braska, the University of Minnesota, 
the University of Illinois, tho I-Iearst 
National Contest and the IntercolleJ 
giate Contest. The match with Ne
braska will be held February 10 and 
the match with Minnesota on Febmary 24. The Intercollegiate Contest 
and the Hearst National Contest are 
to be about the first of March and 
the match with Illinois on March 1G. 
The Hearst National Contest will in
clude all colleges and military insti
tutions which use the 22 calibre rifle. 
The Intercollegiate Contest includes 
all colleges and universities which 
have a Reserve Officers Training 
Corps.
The Castle is an honorary frater
nity drawing its members from the 
Engineer Unit of the R. 0. T. C. Its 
aim and purpose is to stimulate and 
encourage interest in the Reserve Offi
cers Training Corps and the general 
defense of the country.
MRS. BREDV0LD WILL 
SPEAK AT Y. W. MEETING
A very interesting meeting of the 
Y. W. C. A. is scheduled for Wednes
day at 12:20. The meeting will be 
turned over to Mrs. Emily Bowman 
Bredvold, who is now visiting in Pitts
burgh. Since her marriage last sum
mer Mrs. Bredvold has been living in 
Detroit, and her many friends are 
eagerly welcoming her back.
Mrs. Bredvold for several years was 
the Athletic Director in Margaret 
Morrison. She was very popular with 
the students, who enjoyed her partic
ipation in their sports. Mrs. Bredvold 
had an unusually strong interest In 
the Y. W. C. A., and was the advisor 
of that organization here during tho 
(Continued on Page Two.)
APRIL 4 LIKELY DATE
Recently, at a meeting of Student 
Council, the new plans for the Sopho
more and Freshman banquets which 
are to be carried on in the future were 
drawn up. The main advantage of 
these new plans is that they will do 
away with, to a great extent, the dis
turbance of classes. The regulations 
concerning the dates of the banquets 
which were formally effective will no 
longer hold good under this new sys
tem. Instead of the banquets being 
held, of necessity, sometime before 
February first, the time set for them 
will probably be April fourth. The 
following regulations were presented 
by Student Council and await faculty 
approval: Classes will report at the
football field or some similar place 
at a designated time. The class hav
ing the the fewestnumber on hand 
at that time will decide the number 
to take part in the contest. Two 
leather spheres like medicine balls 
bearing the numerals of the contest
ing classes will be provided and will 
be placed in the center of tho field 
with tho opposing classes lined up at 
a set distance on each side. At a 
given signal tho struggle for tho pos
session of those balls shall begin and 
shall contlnuo until a second signal 
Is given. At that time tho possession 
of tho ball will bo determined. The 
class having possession of both balls 
will bo entitled to take tlio opposing 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Juniors Sign Up 
Prom Orchestra
Harmons Orchestra Engaged 
Preliminary Tickets Are 
Now on Sale
Have you bought your Prom Prelim 
Ticket? The salo was opened tho 
day school reoponod, and will closo 
Friday, January 11. This moans that 
everyone will have to hustle about to 
got tho roqulrod amount l'or Ilio ticket. 
Tho price for those who have paid 
their assessment is $2.50, but for 
those who have not made this first 
payment, tho chargo will bo $4.00. 
There will bo no salo of tickets at the 
door oxcopt to tho alumni and there 
will bo only a limited number of 
those, for tho cominlttoo Is frying to 
keep tho hall comfortable by limiting 
tho number of couples on the floor.
The best nows of the woolc Is that 
Harmons Orchestra will play. This 
orchostra is tho ono which made tho 
Penn State Prom famous, and they 
have played at the various dances in 
tho East. It is a really collegiate 
orchestra, and plays for really colle
giate affairs, so tho Junior Prom will 
be put on an equal footing with tho 
other big dances In the country, Tho 
committee announces that this orch
estra is the best ever brought here 
lor a Prom, and It will make the even
ing more enjoyable that can be Imag
ined.
All plans are complete, and the com(Continued on Page Two)
H0N.fI. B. LAUGHLIN 
TO SPEAK HERE TUES.
The Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin, who 
will speak at General Assembly next 
Tuesday, January 15th, is one of the 
most distinguished speakers ever en
gaged to address Carnegie Assembly.
Mr. Laughlin is a Pittsburgh man, 
who started his career in the business 
world, after his graduation from Yale 
in 1893. From 1900 to 1903 he served 
as treasurer of the Jones and Laugh
lin Steel Company, changing fields in 
1903 by becoming the private secre
tary to the American Minister to Ja
pan. From this post he was rapidly 
promoted to the diplomatic service, 
serving in various positions until the 
present time, each position being a 
little more famous than the previous 
one. In 1921 he was on duty at the 
Conference for the Limitation of 
Armaments as secretary to Senator 
Henry Cabot Lodge,
REQUEST INDUSTRIES
STUDENTS' ADDRESSE8
Director Morris has requested that 
all Industries students who have 
moved since the beginning of the 
school term, send in their new ad
dresses to his office. It Is necessary 
to keep the files complete, as a great 
deal of information is mailed to stu
dents. Students should attend to this 
at once.
Band Practice Will be 
Resumed Thursday Night
A practice for tho Carnegie Band 
will bo held in the Union, Thursday 
night, January 10, at 8 o'clock. Sev
eral trips have been arranged for tho 
band, and it is practically certain that 
a trip to Alliance, Ohio, will be made 
In the near future.
There has been a slackening of in
terest in the band since the close of 
the football season. This disinterest 
is entirely unwarranted.
The band is always a function of 
Carnegie Tech, regardless of the time 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Big Bonfire Before Pitt Game
How about the bonfire before the 
Pitt game? Will there 'be one? Where 
will It be? Why?
Cy Hoenuiger is running around 
with a long face, duo to a great deal 
of worry over this matter. The above 
questions were put to him by the re
porter and ho answered not a word. 
He wonders whether there are enough 
Plebes iir school to build a seventyfive foot bonfire. lie wonders wheth
er anyone will come to see it burn, 
and also whether it will burn.
The Idea in a nutshell is merely to 
have a big demonstration before tho 
Pitt basket ball game on the opening 
of the new gym. The idea sounds
fine, and the plans will work out if 
everyone helps. The regular basket 
ball dance will follow the game, and 
it was thought that as a house warm
ing moasure the bonfire would be indlspenslble.
Shall we burn the old field house? 
Tills was ono sugestion that Cy had, 
but it is rather improbable. Another 
suggestion was that the old boards 
from the boardwalks might be used. 
The best plan of all Is to use tho 
boards from the new gym.
Anyhow, tho bonfire will be held 
February 5, just before the Pitt game, 
about 7 on tho field. It is up to the 
Sophomores to get the Plebes to make 
tho bonfire a success.
REV. MANN WILL SPEAK
AT CHAPEL THURSDAY
Tho past year lias brought a big 
improvement in the attendance at 
chapel. This year tho number attend
ing should be larger than ever. All 
should help to make our school chapel 
a potent factor in our life on the cam
pus.
The speaker for this week will be 
Right Reverend Alexander Mann, D.
D., tho Episcopal bishop of the Pitts
burgh diocese. He is one of the best 
known and liked speakers in the city.
Lets all try and get out to this 
first chapel and bring a friend.
THISTLE BOARD STILL 
ON TRAIL OF SENIORS
Lack of Cooperation on Part 
of Upperclass Men is Hold
ing Up Work
There aro quite a number or social 
Seniors on the campus who aro rated 
as Juniors and who are entitled to 
liaVo tlioir pictures in the Thistle. For 
those Sonlors there will bo lists post
ed on tho various school bulletin 
boards within a short time. By sim
ply adding their nanios thereto, those 
men will bo properly taken care of.
The Thistle Board has announced
l.lmt Mr. MoGlay, tho photographer, 
will bo back on tlio campus for one 
day. Tills will give tlio fow Sonlors 
and fraternity men who failed to have 
their pictures taken at a previous 
timo, a final chanco. Announcomont 
of the exact dato will bo posted on 
tlio bulletin boards.
Miss McCIay will ho In tho pic
ture olllco all day tomorrow and this 
will give tlioso who havo failed to (lo 
so thus far, a chanco to turn In tlioir 
proofs. Thereafter tho Thlstlo Board 
will do its own selecting and the 
proofs thus selected will bo placod In 
the Thlstlo.
Announcomont concorning tho Thls
tlo pictures of tho night school stu
dents has hoen made and the schedule 
follows: Industries Senior plcturos
will he taken tonight, Tuesday, at 
0:20 In the Union; Arts Senior plc
turos will be taken tomorrow night, 
Wednesday, at 8:00 in the Exhibition 
Room,
(Continued on Page Two.)
ALPHA TAU MAKES 
KNOWN ELECTIONS
Dean Morris Speaks at As
semblyAnnounce Clan 
Parties
STUDENTS WILL GIVE A 
RECITAL NEXT SUNDAY
Students of the Dfiparmont of Mu
sic will give a recital hi the .Theater 
of the Collego of Fine Arts Sunday 
evening at 8:15. Admission Is free to 
tho public. No tickets or cards are 
required. Tho program follows: 
Program.
Sonata for Violin and Piano.. .Grieg 
Lento dolorosoPoco allegro 
Allegretto tranquillo 
Allegro animato 
Marie Kleyle, Nancy Fast 
Allegro cantabile from Fifth Sym
phony ....................................... Widor
Martha Hutson
Sur le lac.....................................Godard
Harlequin ................................. Popper
Ella Scanlon
Intermezzo, Op. 119, No. 2-----Brahms
Sonetto 104 del Petrarca............Liszt
Minuet in G.......................Moszkowslcl
Jeanette Spatholt 
Sonata for Two Violins, Cello and
Piano ............................. Sammartlni
Marie Kleyle, Edith Jenkins, Ella 
Scanlon, Katherine I-Iessler 
Accompanist 
Katherine I-Iessler
Dean Morris gave a short talk at 
the last Industries Assembly held be
fore tho holidays. The Deans talk 
was very timely, as he urged students 
not to be easily discouraged about 
their college work. He emphasized 
the need of administrative men in the 
business world today by showing fig
ures of the demand which is greater 
than the supply. He also showed that 
tho demand In the mechanical end is 
greater than in the clerical end.
Tho Alpha Tau Honorary Frater
nity selected men for the fall class 
who wore presented with tlioir em
blem. Tho following selections wore 
made from the Senior Class: Joo
Davis, D. H. Goot^vals, W. 11. Deotor,
F. H. Kissol, II. 11. Lilly, and R. E. 
Glovor. Junior Class selections in
cluded A. G. Darnell, A. IT. Cass, F.
E. Powers, F. T. Phelps, F. M. McGoo, 
and J. T. Good.
Mon for this fraternity are selected 
because of their high scholastic stand
ing and oxcoptional ability in school 
activities.
Considerable oratorical rivalry was 
rosorted to by tho student represen
tatives of the Harrisburg and Buffalo 
Clans In announcing tlioir respective 
Christmas parties.
Union Will be Scene 
of Basketball Dance
First Frolic of Year Scheduled 
For Saturday Night
.Do you want a thrill? Yes? Then 
Just Imaglno a banket ball game In 
tlio Nl'JW GYM I Did you got It? Yea, 
Bo. Hold 111 
Try another llttlo flight, mental b 
course. Just travol over to tho Union. 
It's a wonderful walk, and the cool 
night air refreshes  and soothes, es
pecially If you hold hands with your 
girl, and by tho time you havo checked your coat and hat, you feel ready 
for anything.
MUlge Matter, alias Potor-at-thoGate, will exact a foe of ono dollar 
and twonty-ilvo cents, and with a 
wavo of his arm, will admit you to 
Paradise, as Illustrated by tho heav
enly music of the Collegiate Six.
Seriously, the first basket ball 
dance will be hold on Saturday, Janu
ary 12, and will bo tho opening of a 
series of dances to follow every bas
ket ball game.
And until tho Pitt game, just keep 
on imagining a game In the new gym. 
It will keep you pepped up, and give 
you a lot to think about.
WILL TAKE INVENTORY OF
ALL SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
Under the direction of Mr. L. H, 
Miller, the new supervisor of equip
ment, a complete inventory of all 
apparatus, equipment, materials, fur
niture, and miscellaneous parapher
nalia belonging to the school is to be 
taken soon.
Everything will be carefully classi
fied and complete records of all the 
school property will' be kept by the 
Supervisor of Equipment.
M. M. S No Longer Wear Mens Pants 
Leap Year Gives Em All a Chance
By DON GARDNER
(New! York papers please copy.)
New Years fell on January first this 
year and ushered in the periodical 
outburst known to science as Leap 
Year, much to the joy of the feminine 
element of. the universe and greatly 
to the dismay of the rougher sex. 
Leap Year, ill so known, as Dosti'fiute 
Damsels'* Delight and! Natty Youths 
Nemesis, is an outgrowth of an early 
custom of the women of the noolltliic 
ago.
It scorns that at that time a prom
inent manufacturer of horseless per
ambulators decided to run for presi
dent of tho Nero Anti-Fiddlers' 
Loaguo and with rare foresight plan
ned to organize a campaign in which 
to corral some two or three hundred 
votes among Ills constituents. Un
happily for him his acquaintances 
numbered only members of tho oppo
site sox and after a vigorous front 
porch campaign had left him with a 
bad attack of painters colic he decid
ed to change his tactics.
Accordingly he set up a slogan: 
"Husbands for the women arid or
dained, that in the event of his elec
tion, every fourth year should be set 
aside to the business of marrying off 
all the halt, lame, and blind females 
(after all theyre the only kind that 
cant etherize a man) in the kingdom. 
Hence every four yoars we have to 
undergo a reign of terror socond only 
to the ora of "Yes, We Havo No Ba
nanas."
The Coy Co-ed.
On the campus tho offect Is start
ling, No longor does the coy co-ed 
fill, modostly by, gazing shyly from beneatli daintily drooping lashos at the 
big strong men around her. No long
er doos she blush becomingly as she 
skirts the velvet carpet in front of the 
Sonior Fence. No longer does she 
smile entrancingly at her casual masculino acquaintances in anticipation 
of an invitation to the next tea battle 
or the seasons big hugging match. 
No longer does she, as some hard 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 8. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instltuto o 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postoillce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
H. P. SIMPSON ................................................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Sclienley 9143
W. CUNNINGHAM ................................................................ Business Manager
Telephone Sclienley 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ................................................................... Managing Editor
Telephone Sclienley 9189
FRED C. SMITH............................ ...........................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS..........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ....................................................................Associate Editor
Telophone Sclienley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES ................................................................. Associate Editor
II. II. WILSON................................................................................ Associate Editor
W. WINNING .......................................,................................................. News Editor
Telephone Sclienley 9070
P. D. ROSSINI .................................................................................. News Editor
Telephone Sclienley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS ..................................................................................... Nows Editor
Telephone Schenloy 9211
E. C. FRAZIER ............................................................... Athletic Editor
Telephone Schenloy 9143
A. E. KROGII...........................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLEATII ................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ........................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, Jit.......................................................................................... Art Editor
DON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY ..................................................................... Circulation Manager
AP BROUDY .............................................................. Assistant Business Manager
W. M. GIBSON...............................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Jane Gordon, Wilma Stjner, Carol Folglit, 
Margaret McFall, Rosemary M. Cambridge, Nora Willetts, Mary O'Brien, 
Almeo Pharo, Leo Osborn, N. C. WoBCr, V. B. Smith, L. II. Harris, E. L. 
Johnson, J. M. Goss, F. L. Wagner, F. M. McClelland, J. M. Early, D. M. 
Davidson, M. W. Gay, F. L. Ford, E. E. Kearns, C. A. Lundqulst, E. L.
Kennedy, 1C. William Ekdalil, Lillian Cunningham._______________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rassbach.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Motro, P. Edle, II. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, E. L. 
Reeves, A. Barbrow, A. Porroton.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the
Managing Editor for tho make up.___________________
 Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withheld If doslrod. All nows Items must bo In tho student 
postoillce before 4:80 Thursday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom G-A, Industries Building. Olllce hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20. ________________________________________________
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF
In the early days of this paper, when the staff and the circula
tion were small, and when the main purpose was to establish the 
Tartan on a firm foundation that its future might be assured, the 
Editor then had the very fortunate pleasure of knowing intimately 
each of his co-workers. Today, with a weekly circulation of five 
thousand copies, with a staff of approximately sixty young men and 
women, and with an elaborate system for the efficient operation of 
the editorial, thebusiness, and the circulation departments, the Edi
tor does not have the opportunity of meeting every member of tho 
stall* individually.
It is true that we havo our staff meetings, but unfortunately 
these cannot be dated to suit everyones convenience, and conse
quently some cannot attend. Since the Editor is responsible for the 
policy of tlio Carnegie Tartan, and since tho manner oi! operation of 
the three departments of the paper determine, to a greater or lesser 
extent, the policy of the paper, the Editor takes this method of ad
dressing each of the members oI! tho stall! individually, in order that 
you may be instilled with an appreciation of our problems and that 
you may come to know some of the ways by which much inconveni
ence and annoyanco to our subscribers and much undue criticism 
aimed at our paper may be eliminated.
To tho Editorial Departn^OXit:
The fact that ours is a college newspaper, which must necessarily 
have standards commensurato with, its position in the educational 
world, nocessilales moro than ordinary care in the writing of news 
stories. Choice grammatical construction and discriminating expres
sion are tolie desired. An error in spelling is an inexcusable fault. 
All nows stories should contain tho truth and nothing but the truth. 
Tho Editor reserves the right of criticism and comment for his edi
torial column. Tho correct spelling of all names is a paramount 
necessity. A misspelled name is a thorn in our side.
The Tar ton has improved greatly since its inception at Carnegie. 
This is as it should bo, since nothing is stationary in this world; ono 
cither progresses or lags behind in the strugglo for existence. Per
fection, is far from within our grasp.
To tho Business Department:
A. nowspapor without advertisements is lilce a ship without a 
sail. Attainment ol! any desired goal is impossible, without tho funds 
realized through, this medium ol! advertising. The scouring of adver1 sements is a man-sized job, and you men who are doing that work 
on the Tartan this year havo proved that you have great possibilities.
This however does not mean that we may rest on our oars. II! 
wo do, we may find ourselves marooned in some eddy current far 
from the channel ol! progress. The more advertisements wo .obtain, 
the nearer comes to realization our ambition of making the Carnegie 
Tarlnu a semi-weekly newspaper.
To the Circulation Department:
To a newspaper, time is all. What is news today is driftwood 
tomorrow. Wo aro greatly handicapped by the fact that tho Tartan 
is issued only once a week. We must get into that issue all the news 
of the week in a manner that will be pleasing and interesting as well 
as fresh. Consequently there devolves upon you the work of seeing 
that our subscribers get each issue as soon as possible after it comes 
off the press.
To the Entire Staff:
We have shown that improvement is possible. Let us continue 
to progress; for only in the correction of our faults, in attention to 
constructive criticism, and in the continued remembrance of the high 
ideals which we have clioson to guide us, does improvement lie.
A better school, scholastically and athletically; closer co-ordina
tion between the faculty and the students; a greater sympathy be 
tween the administration and the students; and the continued es 
tablishment of customs and the completion of projects which add to 
our chain of Carnegie tradition; is our aim.
This is the first issue of a new year. Let us remember our ideals.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, JANUARY S
Science Assembly.................11:30 A. M., Arts, M. M. C. C., Ind., Eng.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9
Holmes Lecture........................................S :30 P. M., Room 209, Science
THURSDAY, JANUARY 10
Chapel...........................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
Holmes Lecture......................................8:30 P. M., Room 209, Science
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11
Girls Gloo Club, KDKA Conoort................................8:30 P. M., Radio
Holmes Lecture........................................8:30 P. M., Room 209, Seionoo
Sine Nomineo Scholarship Dance................................9:00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12
Basket Ball Dnneo.....................................................9:00 P. M., Union
SUNDAY, JANUARY 13
Music Recital................................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, .JANUARY 18 
Girls Junior Prom.......................................8:00 P. M\, Sclienley Hotel
During our dally life here on the 
campus It often happens that we are 
entertained by this, that or the other 
student might so manage his courses, 
that he would pass all his courses 
without performing any work. Most 
of us find this amusing, and, with tho 
exception of a few among us, whose 
minds have not yet reached maturity, 
we promptly forget them. It occur
red to us that possibly tho professors 
had some view In regard to us, so we 
Interviewed a few.
The first thing thought of by those 
professors soemod to be the wide va
riety of expedients employod by some 
studes In avoiding the fatal marks. 
One of tho most prominent methods 
1 that of asking embarrassing questlons. It would appear that those 
students that are most lacking in ac
tual knowledge of tho subject In 
hand are dovoured by a sublime Inter
est In advanced work in that field, or 
in matters quite foreign to It. Tho 
thirst for knowledge by such a man Is 
Indeed hard to satisfy, until tho 
longed-for bell rings. Then tho light 
of desire for learning Is extinguished 
as silddenly as It arose, except in the 
asos of Home moro subtle spirits who 
carry tho pose until out of earshot.
Tho co ed who tries tho iinmomorial 
weapon of the "fair sex against mere 
man, even though he be a prof, is 
quite a type. Her passionate self
accusation would be tragic had not 
tho Instructor had sisters, who, dur
ing tlioir college career, employed 
those same means, and camo home 
and told all about It. The smiles, 
tears, eyes and e-rr, well, it is all 
familiar to tho wily prof, though ho 
has been known to succumb. The 
classes, even In a young school like 
ours, that have gone before, have all 
pulled stunt over and over again.
Then there is the student who as
sumes that the prof is an ignoramus 
concerning any subject outside of his 
own specialty. The flashes of knowl
edge shown by this type on widely 
different subjects aro really admira
ble, and would glvo occasion for true 
awe and respect were it not that the 
prof, too, has felt ills lack of knowl
edge and so looked over the Encyclo
pedia Brltanlea in his younger days, 
thus preparing for just such an emer
gency.
Tho "independent spirit is no less 
amusing. Ills divine contempt for 
advice; his consistent and undounted 
attempts to "catch up tho prof, and 
his fervor for tho principles of tho 
rights to "life, liberty and the pur
suit of happiness as they concern 
the student body, but not tho faculty; 
all these would form an admirable 
combination were it not for the glar
ing halo of self-esteem around his 
countenance.
Tlioro aro many others. The domure 
co-od; the last years flunker, who is 
now lording ovor the lower classmen 
that have caught up to him; tho book
worm with his contempt for student, 
activities; tho fraternity man filled 
with zeal for tho welfare of potential 
"brother#;' and many others. Per
haps tho social lion, who trios tho 
name tricks on tho unfortunate pro
fessor that ho HE successfully em
ployed at tho last tea dance, is tho 
most amusing of all.
Try to classify yourself. It in amusing. Ono cannot wonderful that the 
faculty occasionally go behind the 
scones for a good laugh. Lots laugh 
with thom!
On Wednesday evening of last week 
classes In night school reopened after 
the Christmas vacation. Opportunity 
Is being given at this time in a num
ber of the courses in the College of 
Industries and the College of Fine 
Arts for the entrance of new students.
Reports from Director Ihrlgs office 
show that a number of new students 
havo already registered and that ar
rangements aro being made to accom
modate as many as care to* apply. It 
Is believed that with the addition of 
these new students and the students 
in part time courses that the regis
tration in night school will very short
ly exceed tho number of students in 
day courses.
Saturday evening before the Christ
mas vacation the men in the engi
neering department of night school 
held their annual banquet at the Fort 
Pitt Ilotol. The affair was exception
ally well attened, and in the eyes of 
the men was one of the finest ban
quets which the' students of that de
partment have conducted.
George Pettay, the student presi
dent of the engineering group in night 
school, presided. Dr. Baker spoke 
briefly to the men. Dr. Ihrig, director 
of night school and part time classes, 
and Clarence Overend, Graduate Man
ager of Athletics, also addressed the 
gathering.
During the evening a committee 
was appointed to assist and co-oper
ate with Mr. Overend, Graduate Man
ager of Athletics, in his plans for 
bringing the men in the night school 
into closer touch with the athletic ac
tivities of the school.
JUNIORS SIGN UP
PROM ORCHESTRA
(Continued From Pago 1) 
mittoe is assurod of tho success of 
the affair. There will be novel favors, 
extraordinary entertainment.
A fine supper will add to tho gen
eral merriment of the occasion.
Do Your Prom Shopping Early.
For those who have had some doubt 
in their minds about the date, place, 
and all of that, the committee re
peats the following. The dance will 
be held in the Hotel Sclienley ball
room, on the evening of February 1st,
and tho preliminary ticket sale will 
oloso January 11. Tho price of tho 
prelim, tickets is $4.00. Those who 
have paid their assessment will be 
charged only $2.50.
THISTLE BOARD STILL
ON TRAIL OF SENIORS
(Continued From Page 1)
The Seniors who are in charge of 
the Senior writeups are asked to co
operate in this work for it is only 
with the aid of the Seniors that 'this 
phase of Thistle work can be made 
a success.
V
MARGARET MORRISON
Margaret Morrison Assembly room 
was unusually crowded for tho last 
mooting of 1028. Tho opening serv
ice was varied by the selection of 
hymns apropos of tho Christmas 
soason.
Tho singing was followed by a 
short address by Miss Mary 13. Breed, 
Director of Margaret Morrison. She 
expressed mingled feelingsof pleas
ure and pain which, she says, she al
ways experiences at such a time.
Perhaps,1' said Miss Breed, "this 
same group may never be gathered to
gether again. There were friends 
with us at tliis time last year whom 
we shall not see any more, and next 
year there will be new faces among 
us. I am always reminded, at such 
a meeting as this, that we are not 
sure of anything in life. Unexpected 
changes take place in the passage of 
time, and our dearest friendships are 
often broken without warning. We 
do not know how long we have to live 
and to enjoy our friendships and as
sociations with those we love, and we 
do not realize what _ these things 
mean to us until we cannot have them 
any longer. So we ought to try to be 
kind and sympathetic toward each 
other, so that in the time to come 
when we shall be together no more, 
wo shall have stored up tender mem
ories that will be a pleasure to re
call."
At the close of Miss Breeds talk 
the meeting was turned over to rep
resentatives of tho PI Delta Epsilon, 
who formally plodged the charter 
membors of PI Sigma Tau, tho now 
honorary journalistic fraternity for 
women.
ARTS
A short and Interesting Arts assem
bly was hold In tho Little Theater, 
Tuesday, December IS, at 11:30 a. m 
Tho architects box was conspicuous 
on account of the absence of Its usual 
members, who wore on a charotto.1 
Lack of noise predominated.
A short businoss mooting was hold. 
Announcement was made of the oloclion of several seniors to tlio archi
tect's honorary fraternity, Tau Sigma 
Delta. Mr. McGoodwin, director of 
the Arts School, is to become an hon
orary member.
The audience was then entertained 
very pleasantly by Miss Hazel Brown, 
whose talk was directed against those 
who are not well versed in etiquette. 
It was very humorous and enjoyed by 
all.
New Students Are to 
Enter Night School
Night School Banquet Was 
Successful Affair
'1
HARVARD STUDENTS
ADOPT BLUE SHIRTS
Harvard has organized a "Blue 
Shirt Club which thus far seems to 
be very successful. The members of 
this noble organization are required 
to wear only one shirt a week, and 
that one must be a blue one. The 
purpose of the club is twofold. The 
first purpose Is to boycott the laun
dries, to make them lower their 
prices, but we are inclined to think 
that it would be just as effective and 
porhaps even more bizarre to have 
tho men form a Shirt Washing Club.
The second purpose is to combat 
the Ku Klux Klan and similar organ
izations. It is rather puzzling to de
termine just what blue shirts have to 
do with tho Ku Klux Klan, but per
haps the blue shirts ore set up in op
position to the white ono of the Ku 
Klux.
Thus far this club has been confin
ed to Harvard, but they do not expect 
to bo able to keep up the monopoly 
much longer. They fear that the idea 
will spread to other colleges, and that 
soon tho club will become an inter 
colleglato affair.
M. M.'s NO LONGER WEAR MENS 
PANTSLEAP YEAR GIVES
EM ALL A CHANCE
SCRAPS O PLAID  
By Hal & Mac.FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Pretty toughthis gettin back on 
the job.
And, oh what we find staring us in 
the face when we do com6 back.
Found a bird who boasts that he 
sure did knock out the Math and Me
chanicsno foolin'!
Must be flgurin on gettin through 
In three yearshope he does.
Sfunny, some of us stay home on ; 
vacations until we just make the last j 
train while some others of us come | 
back several days early. We say we 
want to be with the folks as long as | 
possible or we want to get back to I 
do studying. Sounds good butoh, j 
well we know different.
Wonder what all the loving cups are 
for in Dean Browns office? Know 
some nice girls who rate one or two 
of 'em.
---------Ran into a bunch of Carnegie boys 
in the postal service over the holi-1 
days. Theyre pretty good on tills | 
mail stuff, and sure know how to 
play "postoillce.
Say, you fellows who were around 
where they have these here organiza-! 
tions called Clans, did you attend any j 
of their Christmas parties? We did ! 
and take our word for it, these old i 
grads can show some pep. Just take 
in one of these events tlip next time 
you have the opportunity.
Wonder how many of our athletes 
of the recent football and cross-coun
try seasons are beginning to swell 
their chests in anticipation of the 
varsity sweaters soon to be awarded. 
It might keep the tailors in business 
sewing buttons on vests.
Saw Bert Munliall the other day 
and lie looked as comfortable and 
contented as ever. Cant be that 
leap year is affecting him any.
And by the way, girlsdo you have 
your campaign laid out yet?
j CLUB NEWS "j
NEWMAN CLUB
The Newman Club will gather as 
usual in Cathedral High School to
morrow night. A short business meet
ing will settle the question of a New
man Club paper and set the date for 
the next dance.
A basket ball game, which will be 
started in the gymnasium while the 
meeting is in progress upstairs, will 
furnish a few minutes diversion, and 
then the orchestra will unloose its 
devastating strains. Dancing will 
continue from nine till eleven. The 
session opens at eight.
TEKNON CLUB
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
hearted newspaper man would havo 
us believe, wear mens apparel arid 
take her roommate to dances. Wo 
should liopo to remark she doesnt.
Listen, Eloles.
Take tho avorago co-od ambling 
across tho Cut under tho stimulus of 
Leap Year and tho Bontlment engen
dered by tho mlstlctoo crop of the 
past Christmas. "Liston, Elolso, 
slio gurgles to her companion: "I got 
tho meanest meal tiekot in the burg 
hanging on the ropes, and I dont 
moan maybe. Say this old sweetie of 
his aint got a chancoI got him I 
latod up for everything for tho next 
month, and ho says liell wear my so
rority pin when I got it back. Its 
costing mo a lotta jack, but I figure 
If I can grab him off this year I got 
him forever. Hows this for the fatal 
oratory?
And then she quotes our old friend, 
Lgernon Charles Swineburne, some
what after this fashion:
Oh wondrous lad! How sweet you are! 
So handsome and so muscular,
I long to hold you in my arms 
Protect and save you from all harms; 
Come, fly with medelay no more, 
For Leap Year comes but once in four.
After a pleasant vacation,, it is 
hoped that all the members of the 
Telcnon Club will be back next Thurs
day night, January 10, to greet Dr. 
Kerr, who' will speak on an entirely 
now subject. The subject will be: 
"Tho Life of Christ, which should be 
interesting to nil.
A number of visitors will be pres
ent at this first meeting. Reports of 
the Student Volunteer Convention 
will bo-given at this time.
DR. HOLMES TO DISCUSS
ROLE OF COLLOIDS
MRS. BREDVOLD WILL
SPEAK AT Y. W. MEETING
(Continued From Page One.) 
past year.
The girls who know her will not 
miss this chance of seeing her and 
hearing her speak at the first meet
ing of the new year.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
councillors-at-large of that organiza
tion. This shows in what esteem he 
is hold by the loading American 
scientists.
President Baker is to bo congratu
lated on tho successful lectures which 
havo been held as a result of his ef
forts to bring to Pittsburgh some of 
tho foremost scientists of the day. 
Pittsburghers by this means have 
been brought Into contact with our In
stitute and have acquired some knowl
edge of the school which sooner or 
later will promote that co-ordination 
essential for the progress of Carnegie.
Dr. Holmes lectures will take place 
at S:30 p. m. in Room 21S of the 
Science building. Tomorrow evening 
he will speak on Colloid Chemistry; 
Thursday on Emulsions, and Friday 
on "Gels. Although some invitations 
were issued to chemists, engineers 
and scientific ogranizations of the 
city, the lectures^ire open to the pub
lic and no tickets are necessary.
Mary bought a pair of skates 
Upon the ice to frisk;
Mary was a foolish girl,
Her little *
Whos Who in Arts
Student Senate.
PresidentTeasdale Barney, 5549 Forbes St........................................Hazel 3320
Vice PresidentHelen B. Johnson, 401G Forbes St........................Sclienley 9079
SecretaryWayne F. Ivoppes, 4902 Forbes St..................................Schenley 9231
TreasurerVernon L. Mollenauer,*&S12 Bartlett St.............................Hazel 939S
Senior Class.
PresidentM. A. Brace, 4921 Forbes St....................................:.. .Sclienley 659
Vice PresidentCora Pitcairn, 1411 Wiglitman St................................Hazel 2777
TreasurerGretehen Hoffman, 4916 Forbes St................................Schenley 9079
SenatorsEarl Gross, 5224 Liberty Avenue.........................................Hiland 0S58
Bertha Olirman, 1509 Pennsylvania Avenue....................Cedar G344-J
Junior Class.
President.O. B. Nownwn, 4915 Forbes St.......................................Schenley 9211
Vico ProsidentDorothy Diamond, 411 Ross Avonue, Wilkinsburg, Pa.
....................................................................................................... Franklin 14G9-R
SecretaryEllon Eyomnn. 4916 Forbes St........................................Schenley 9079
TreasurerJ. G. Carr, 4725 Wallingford St....................................Schenloy 9177
SenatorsDorothy Schmallhorst , 5052 Forbos St....... ^............Sclienlov 9063
P. R. Thorne, 315 Atlantic Ave............................................Hiland 9-122
Sophomore Class.
PresidentM. N. Goodwin, 5224 Liberty Ave.......................................Hiland 0S5S
Vice PresidentMargaret Giffon, 5709 Beacon St.............................Hazel 233S-J
SecretaryFlorence Jones, 5052 Forbes St......................................Schenley 9063
TreasurerII. E.i Wagoner. 1S07 Baum Blvd.....................................Schenley 92S5
SenatorsAlice Nelson, 5090 Forbes St..............................................Schenley 9162
E. G. Wheeler, 5549 Forbes St................................................Hazel 3320
Freshman Class.
PresidentPaul Tate, Boss Hall ......................................................Schenley 923f
Vice PresidentGrace Glennon. 5141 Woodlawn Ave..................Schenley 0341-R
SecretaryMartha Townsend, 5151 Woodlawn Ave.......................Schenley 943S
TreasurerGeorge McKinney, 1019 Hallam SL...............................Schenley 9143
SenatorsElizabeth Sweeney. 5150 Forbes St...}...........................Schenley 9204
William Lockard, 4624 Forbes St.....................................Schenley 9211
The phrase heading this column is 
a good one. It has a catching rhythm 
to it, which makes it a good motto. 
Several times of late I have seen it 
quoted, and aptly so. The present 
Editor-in-chief must have had an in
spiration indeed, .when he coined the 
phrase, but just what does it mean?
The term is easy to use, but does 
it convey anything beyond the simple 
terminology? Who is to determine 
what is and what is not For the Good 
of Carnegie. The answer of course 
is that no one man or group of men, 
or women, be they administration, 
faculty or student members of our 
big family can decide. Each per
sonas conscience .must be his guide. 
What seems good to me, may be re
pugnant to you. Robert Browning 
just about struck the right keynote, 
when he said in his "Rabbi Ben 
Ezra:
"Now, who shall arbitrate?
Ten men love what I hate,
Shun what I follow, slight what I 
receive,
Ten, who in ears and eyes 
Match me. We all surmise,
They this thing, and 'I that, now whom 
should you believe?
There are and must be differences 
of opinion. If there is anything that 
I think we can all agree about, it is 
that indifference and apathy on ques
tions concerning Carnegie are very 
decidedly NOT For the Good of Car
negie. Nor is that the only point on 
which we can reach agreement.
There are certain things that are 
often supposed to be of benefit to the 
school, but which too often prove the 
reverse. Mature thought on the part 
of the student would have prevented 
the difficulty, but too often he finds 
himself in the maelstrom before he 
takes thought.
Among these is excessive participa
tion in activities. It appears to us an 
unfortunate condition that as soon as 
any entering student, be he a Fresh
man or an advanced standing student, 
shows any interest in activities 
around here, and proves himself capa
ble of becoming popular, lie is imme
diately rushed into a number of ac
tivities, made member of innumerable 
committees, and urged to try for any
thing and everything except  high 
scholarships. Oftentimes liis ability 
lies in a totally different direction, 
but for the good of this, that or the 
other club, society, fraternity and
I whatnot, he must accept all the nomI inations, because a man popular om 
: the campus is wanted for the posii tion.
Is it any wonder that a man like 
j that fails in his studies? How can lie; help it? True, when such men finally 
j do get a diploma, often through sheer 
I weariness on the part of the profess
ors, they frequently go out and make 
good. Yes, financially, those men are 
often the most successful alumni of 
their Alma Mater, but surely when a 
student is sent to Carnegie, for ail 
such men are sent, otherwise they 
could not find time for so many activ
ities, it is with the hope that some 
book knowledge should be gained. Is 
it not possible and indeed, probable, 
that a man with ability such that he 
can thus succeed in spite of the han
dicap imposed upon him by his 
"friends could have benefitted theworld much more had be availed him
self of the opportunities offered here.
The only possible fundamental rea
son for any parsons attending college 
is to gain an education. Activities, 
friendships, athletics, can all be 
found outside of iflhe campus. It is a 
waste of time, money and good energy 
to attend college to get these things 
as a primary object. To be sure, 
they must enter in. The man, wholeaves Carnegie without having par
ticipated in any student activity, ex
cept attendance at a football gamehas missed some of the most glorioustliings Carnegie can offer; but simi
larly, he (or she) that considers his 
classes secondary to anything else is 
due for an awakening.
For the Good of Carnegie, and for 
the good of those whom we would 
thus honor, let us investigate the 
scholastic standing of candidates. Th& 
success of any Carnegie organization 
which is built upon the downfall of 
any individual is at best a doubtful 
success. There is plenty of material 
available, which will and can take 
charge of whatever needs be done. It 
will be For the BEST of Carnegie if 
we avail ourselves thereof.
Yours, for The Good of Carnegie.
ANNOUNCE COURSE IN 
IRON-STEEL MAKING
A new short course on the "Princi
ples of Iron and Steel Making, for 
which anyone interested may enroll, 
is announced to begin on the evening 
of January 22nd. Decision to include 
this work in the program for the cur
rent year resulted from the success a 
similar course has met in Tarentum, 
Pa., where about 75 steel workers and 
others.are registered as students.
The new course will be given by 
the Department of Metallurgy of the 
College of Engineering, and will in
clude 26 evening classes. Meetings 
are scheduled for Tuesday and Thurs
day evenings, the sessions to consist 
chiefly of lectures, followed by in
formal discussions.
A feature of this new course is the 
complete lack of scholastic require
ments of students. Although it is de
signed to be primarily of interest to 
men employed in the various pro
cesses of iron and steel making, no 
established amount of previous edu
cation Is required.
According to the announcement, the 
ledtures will be given by faculty mem
bers of the institution, and experts on 
various phases of iron and steel mak
ing attached to local industrial plants.
The outline of the course Includes 
lectures and discussions on the folloAving: Historical review, elements
of. chemistry and physics, blast fur
nace, pig iron, grey iron castings, mal
leable castings, wrought iron, Crucible 
Steel Process, Bessemer Processes, 
acid and basic, open hearth processes, 
acid and basic, Talbot, Monell and 
other special processes, Duplex Pro
cess, electric furnaces, steel castings, 
ingots and their peculiarities.
ORCHESTRA FAILURE
PROBED BY TARTAN
(Continued From Page One.) 
closed, I dismissed it from my mind 
until the night of the banquet, when, 
at the non-appearance of the orchestra 
at the specified time, I called the fra
ternity house of the manager, whom 
I learned was out of town.
Upon further inquiry, I was told by 
the man who answered the phone that 
the date in question had been can
celled a week ago. I consulted the 
rest of the committee and found that 
no member had been notified of the 
action of the orchestra. The first in
timation of the cancellation we had 
wras at 7:30 :lie night of the banquet.
It is possible that the orchestra at
tempted to notify the committee 
through another person who may have 
neglected to give us the message. 
But the fact remains that the com
mittee, to the best of my knowledge, 
was not notified.
I regret very much that the inci
dent occurred, and will say for the 
committee that we would be very glad 
to give the orchestra the benefit of 
any doubt which may exist as to re
sponsibility for the blame.
Yours truly,
E. C. FRAZIER. 
The Carnegie Tartan:
I wish to add my statement to the 
collection that Is being printed in the 
Tartan, concerning the non-appear
ance of tlie Carnegie Collegians at 
the Junior Banquet, 
j At the time that I accepted the verI bal contract to play everything was 
j fine. However, sometime later the 
! Musical Club trip was announced to 
j begin Friday, December 1. This fact 
showed me that perhaps five and no 
! less than four members of the orch! estra would be away from the city* 
On Thursday, December 13th, I 
: called the fraternity house in which 
j the chairman of the Entertainment
DRAMA DEPT. NEWS
Ross' Hertz who wrote last yeara 
Arts Ball show, and who left, imme
diately after the ball to fulfill a New 
York engagement, is visiting his 
friends on the campus.
Xmas Greetings were received from 
Jack Willard, a 1923 graduate, who is 
playing with "The Bat company, 
throughout the Middle West.
George Hoag, graduate of 1923, is 
playing with the Coast Company in 
the "Cdt and the Canary.
Mrs. Robert Vernon, who will be 
remembered as Bee Heinrich, is vis
iting her mother in Pittsburgh. Mrs. 
Vernon is a member of the "Matinee 
Musical Club of Philadelphia.
Mary Brown of the Drama Depart
ment has been appearing at the Davis 
and the Grand with John Aasen in 
"Jack,'the Giant Killer.
Committee lived. He was not at 
home. I called again sometime later, 
he was still out and I gave the mes
sage that the Carnegie Collegians 
could not play to someone in that 
fraternity. 1-Ie said he would deliver 
the message and I had every reason 
to believe that he would do so. He. 
evidently failed and now all the blame 
falls on my orchestra.
I am very sorry that all this has 
occurred, but I assure you I do not 
believe that I am altogether at fault.
Sincerely,
W. B. CUNNINGHAM.
COLONEL CUNNINGHAM
HURT IN CAR SMASHUP
(Continued From Page 1) 
that his car Was covered by insurance,, 
and let it go at that. A passing car 
was hailed, after the failure of Mr. 
S'iviter to offer his services to tak& 
Col. and Mrs. Cunningham to a doc
tors office where their injuries wereattended.
' Mrs. Cunningham suffered lacera
tions about the face, and a deep cut 
on the wrist, which severed an art
ery. She also suffered from shock. 
The Colonel suffered bruises, and a 
cut on the leg, which is quite pain
ful. Both Mrs. Cunningham and theColonel are under the care of a trained 
nurse, and are doing well.
BAND PRACTICE WILL BE
RESUMED THURSDAY NIGHT
(Continued From Page 1) 
of the year, and is one activity in 
which a poor representation is most 
quickly noticed. The band will play 
at several of the basket ball games,, 
and in addition will make several 
trips as mentioned above.
Anyone who has ever played a mu
sical instrument is invited to attend 
the rehearsal next Thursday, and any
one who has never played one but who 
is interested, is asked to come also.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. JANUARY 8, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE TH5EE
PLAID ATHL ET ICS&
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
CAGE/WEN PREPARE 
FOR STATE CONTEST
OLD TIMERS
There are few among us who do not remember the inimitable Dummy 
Szold, and no doubt quite a number of us recall a football star of 1921, Ed 
Lewis, both of which gentlemen are now pastiming in Birmingham, Alabama. 
Now we are not going to launch into a eulogy on the Sunny South, although 
just at the instant of writing this, a headline in the paper lying near by 
proclaims that the temperature tonight will be some degrees below zero in 
Pittsburgh.
No, we are going to confine our discourse to the strange adventures of 
Cy Comfort in the land of cotton and the boll weavil. Cy spent part of the 
Christmas vacation in Birmingham and reports that Dummy Szold is abso
lutely unknown to the natives of that community. After inquiring all over 
town, all the information that Cy could amass was that there was a Mr. 
Bernard Szold who was creating quite a stir in the artistic circles, especially 
dramatic, of that city. One informant went so far as to state that there was 
a Professor Szold.
The scandal about Ed Lewis is that he is engaged in engineering work 
in that vicinity. His official title, we believe, is Refrigerating Eugineer, and 
he is concerned with the management of a chain of cold storage establish
ments or something of that sort.
These men are both former athletes at Carnegie Tech and we thought 
that the information above wouldinterest their many friends here.
Several Veterans From Last 
Year's Squad Will Make 
Trip Next Sat.
FOR ASSISTANT MANAGERS
It has not been the policy of this column to engage in much criticism, 
unless by so doing the writer considered that conditions could be improved 
by that means. Nevertheless, a column of this sort is supposed to be largely 
editorial, and would not be fulfilling its purpose i it did not contain a cer
tain amount of constructive criticism.
The following remarks were prompted largely by the statement of one of 
the basket ball managers that out of nearly 20 Freshmen who started out as 
candidates for assistant manager, only two or three are now coming out in 
the evenings with any degree of regularity. Where are the other fifteen 
or so?
For the benefit of the Plebes, let us briefly outline how a manager is 
made. The Freshmen are asked to try out for managerships; they go out 
and work, or decide that menial labor is not their forte, and fall back into 
the ranks. During the Sophomore year, two or three of the candidates who 
lasted over the summer begin to overshadow their competitors, and two of 
these are selected to serve as first assistants during their Junior year, at 
the end of which one of them becomes manager. The final managerial elec
tion is made by a committee of coaches, captains, managers, etc., and is ap
proved by the Athletic Council.
The significent fact is that in every case, promotion is based upon 
general ability and steady attendance. The men who have been out every 
evening at work are the men who are the chief contenders for the manager
ship. Steady attendance, and a cheerful willingnessto carry out orders are 
noticed by those in authority, and rewarded by other honors. Plebes, it is 
the man who can stick to the job once started and see it through to the end 
who gets the managership and the honor that goes with it. A prominent 
manufacturer speaking before a group of college students recently said: 
The Freshman who is scraping mud from football uniforms today is the 
leader of tomorrow/ He is learning the lesson of persistance and the value 
of a diversity o! interests.
But remember that any one can try out for a position. It is the man 
who stays out and is sincere in his efforts who is successful.
After the battle with the Waynes* 
burg College quintet last Saturday 
night, the Plaid basket tossers are 
busy making the attack smoother and 
the defense tighter in preparation for 
I the game next Saturday against the. 
Penn State five.
Penn State has usually turned out a 
team on the floor that is hard to beat, 
and it is expected that their squad 
this year will be of the same high 
standard. It is too early in the sea
son to judge either team, but those in 
contact with the basket ball situation 
of the two schools are looking for a 
close, hard-fought battle, on the State 
court.
The Tartan lineup is not yet known, 
but the following men will make the 
trip: Amans,. Dosey, Newman, and
Anderson, forwards; Mefort and Good
win, centers; and Mohrman, Beatty, 
Robertson, and Parker, guards. Do
sey, Newman, Anderson, Mefort, Good
win, and Mohrman played varsity bas
ket ball last season. Jim Anderson is 
captain of the squad.
The coach is confident that the 
squad will be in good condition, and 
the men are remaining eligible schol
astically, which is a good indication. 
The rest over the holidays has done 
the men much good, and they are ex-1 
pected to show up well under fire.
CAPI. LYONS WRITES
OF RIFLE SHOOTING
NO CAUSE FOR DISCOURAGEMENT
The basket ball team lost the opener last Saturday night, after holding 
a fair lead through most of the contest. We dont think there is cause for 
alarm, for Waynesburg had the advantage of having played earlier in the 
season, and the. experimenting with different combinations probably slowed 
the Plaid machine up to some extent. We believe that Coach Ben Lubic, 
with the points which lie observed during this game will develop before long 
an aggregation that will give, any team in the district a very hard fight for 
top honors. The result of this weeks game at State College will show better 
-what the prospects of the local floor season are.
We like Coach Lubics attitude in wanting the men to keep up their 
scholastic standing. This attitude on the part of the coach was largely the 
reason for cancelling the Eastern trip, which would have huj.*t the athletes 
chances of passing the coming examinations.
Stretching Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income. 
The,officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promot
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu
tion of their financial prob
lems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
Answered at Last.
Whats home without a mother? 
An incubator.University News.
Whnt nro you doinp, Pyth writing Her another letter?
Pythias
Nonot this time. Something more to the point, as one would say. Im writing the Pater to send me a dozen Hldorado pencils. They are all sold out down ut the store.
ELS)0
liAe master diawingpencil'
17 leadiall dealer
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CKAIG
 i
E
 [; 
!E
OJS/SMSfSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSEfSiSMS/S
DAVIES and HUGHES
cTWENS WEARj)
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes 
OPEN EVENINGS
DHSS SUITS TO REIMT 
TUXKAY
The tuxedo for the College Man
ORDER EARLY
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30-5:30
The Carnegie Tech nifle team has 
been trying to obtain recognition of 
the rifie team by the Athletic Coun
cil. Captain H. C. Lyons of tho 
Corps of Engineers, It. O. T. C., is 
heartily behind the movement and 
has contributed the following letter 
in its behalf, which we are glad to 
prinltt, in the hope that it may add 
to the interest of the student body in 
the rifle, club and the sport. The let
ter is as> iollows:
To the Editor of The Tartan:
Sir:
In view of the fact that (the rifie 
team of Tech Is trying to obtain rec
ognition from the Athletic Cauncil, 
it may be of interest to know that 
rifle shooting is generally recognized 
as a minor sport-. About a year ago, 
inquiries were sent to a number of 
institutions asking whether or not 
rifle shooting was classified as a 
minor sport. The following schools 
classify i as a minor sport: Penn
sylvania, Michigan, Western Mary
land, Mississippi A. & M., Delaware, 
Rutgers, Georgetown, Indiana, Iowa 
A. & M., Columbia, Lafayette, Ten
nessee, Boston, Washington, Prince
ton, Nebraska, Nevada, New York 
Universi'tly, West, Virginia, Norwich, 
Maryland, John Hopkins, Drexel, 
Iowa, Georgia Tech., Emory, TTniver 
sity of Pennsylvania, Marion, Yale, 
Oklahoma A. & M. and Syracuse.
At most of the above schools, a 
letter is granted to members who 
participate in at least three-fourths 
of tho intercollegiate matches.
In view of tho above and also be* 
cause skill in rifle marlcmanshlp is 
iii pre-eminent American character
istic, I venture to add my plea, to 
that of the rifle club.
I sincerely hope that rifle shoot
ing wLll be igiven the recognition 
that this splendid sport deserves.
Veryi truly yours,
II. C. LYONS, 
Capta.in Corps of Engineers.
NO RESERVED SEATS FOR
FIELD HOUSE CONTESTS
Graduate Manager Buddy Overend 
announces that there will be no re
served seats for the homo basket ball 
games this season, in the old Held 
house.
This decision is duo to the fact that 
the new gymnasium will bo ready for 
tho Pitt game on February 5. Of 
course some of the seats in the field 
house are preferable to others, but 
due to the small number of-games to 
be played there, it is not thought 
worth while to reserve any seats.
It is probable that a block of seats 
will be reserved in the new gym. Tho 
general admission for those not pre
senting student tickets will be $1.00. 
Admission by student books will be 
free.
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
UNDERGOES CHANGES
Many important changes have taken 
place in the varsity basket ball sched
ule since tho last issue of the Car
negie Tartan. One of the Pitt games 
has been transterred, and the East
ern trip has been called off altogether. 
In the following revised program, the 
changes will be apparent. It is rec
ommended that the reader make the 
changes in his student handbook, as 
some of the dates printed therein will 
of course be erroneous.
The revised schedule is as follows:
January 5Waynesburg, here.
January 12Penn State, there.
January 19Thiel, here.-
February 5Pitt, here.
February SGrove City, here.
February 9Geneva, here.
February 13Bucknell, here.
February 1GPenn State, liore.
February 21Westminster, hero.
February 22Wash-Joff, there.
February 27Wash-Jeff, here.
February 29Grove City, thoro.
March 1W. Va. Wesleyan, here.
March 3Allegheny, hero.
March 5Pitt, there.
March-7Genova, there.
NEW COURSE IN AUTO 
IGNITION IS OFFERED
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Ffederal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus ------- $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
A now short courso in electric start
ing, lighting, and ignition systems for 
experienced automobile mochanics 
was started on Thursday afternoon, 
January 3rd. According to tho an
nouncomont tho decision to givo such 
a course has boon nuulo in rosponso 
to a doflnito demand coming from a 
number of Pittsburgh automobile deal
ers and sorvico stations.
The course will bo glvon on Thurs
day afternoons from 1 to 5 oclock, for 
ten consecutive weoks. Plans have 
already boon arranged botwoon tho 
Institute authorities and somo of tho 
auto establishments to socuro tho 
sanction of tho ompioyors whenovor 
a prospective student doslros to en
rol 1.
Only oxperioncod mechanics aro 
eligible to take tho courso bocauao of 
tho advancod naturo of tho work that 
will bo covered In tho ton 'classos. 
Much practical work will bo Included 
in the courso In addition to locturos 
and demonstrations by a trained staff 
of exports. Among tlio subjocts to bo 
Included in tho work will bo studios 
of tho principles of electricity; mag
netism; electric motor and gonorator 
principles; induction; construction of 
voltmeters and ammotors, and tlioir 
use; the Ignition coil, breakor, con
denser, and distributor; construction 
of automqblle motors and generators; 
construction and operation of tho re
verse current rolay; third brush reg
ulation, Reiny and Delco; vibrator 
regulators; battery switches, and 
study of the complete electrical sys
tem; systems of trouble testing.
In addition to this new short course, 
the regular evening courses for inex
perienced men will be reopened in tho 
Department of Automobile Mainte
nance and Operation for new students 
beginning Wednesday evening, Jan
uary 3rd. The decision to admit new 
students in the regular night courses 
is made possible, says the announce
ment, because /nost of the work is 
covered by individualized instruction.
Practically all of the other shop 
courses in the College of Industries, 
and many of the studio courses in the 
College of Industries, will also be re
opened to admit new students this 
month beginning Wednesday evening, 
January 3rd.
NEW VOflK UNIVERSITY SGH00L OF RETAILING
A GRADUATE SCHOOL 
Retailing is a field of opportunity for the trained mind. The 
School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising Personnel Service
Advertising Training Finance and Control
Teaching
are the attractive fields.
SERVICE FELLOWSHIPS 
Class room and the store are closely linked together.
Students may enter second term February 4, 1924.
Illustrated booklet upon application.
For further information write
DR. NORRIS A. BRISCO, Director 
New York University, School of Retailing 
100 Washington Square New York City I ,
SKIB0S SET BACK HOLMEMS ETF EMCTIM 
IN OPENER ?4-20 SDIUES NR CASW PAGMSCHOLARSHIPS FOR 
1923-24 ANNOUNCED
THE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melachrino 
Cigarettes a deli
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
Cigarette Sold the World Over
Waj^nesburg College Comes 
- From Behind to Win 
Fast Contest
Four points were all that separated i 
tlie Tartans from a victory in their 
game with Waynesburg College last j 
Saturday night in tho Field ITouso. j 
And iti was just about that many do-1 
grees that separated the mercury in i 
Bert MunhaUs thermometer from to 
tal annihilation, according to many 
of the spectators who braved tlio 
chilly blasts to seo tho seasons 
opener, which resulted in a Plaid 
disappointment by tho score of 2*1 
to 20.
The homo combination started out 
like the proverbial house afire, but 
tho weather was not conducive to 
proper combustion and the ilames 
became moro and more fitful, finally j 
coming under control of tho visitors 
The Carnegio aggregation scored first 
soon after tho start of tho g:vme, An
derson and Alefort doing some good 
attack work, and making several 
good shots. Vory largely as the resuit of the shooting of these men 
and somo pretty lloor work on the 
part of tlio team as ai whole, tho 
Tartans led the opponents at; the end 
of the initial period by six points. 
Tho only marker chalkod up by the 
slow-starting visitors was a goal by 
Snyder,, who was to prove ono of the 
chief caiuses of the Sldbos undoing 
lator in tho battle.
In fa:ot, Snyxlor startled in to show 
his stuff in the very next period 
when ho scored six points, tho total 
killing of his team in this quarter 
The Tartans succeeded In amassing 
only three units in this time. Thus 
ondot.li tho second insitJallment of our 
talo, with tho honors dlvidod among 
tho hostile caimps in the ratio of 11 
to 8, tho Plaid colors Hying the 
higher.
It was by fast ondl dotormlnod work 
that Waynesburg tied '(ho scoro and 
then passod tho Slcibos In tho final 
two periods'. In tlio oarly part of 
the game they had tried many long 
shots which wero lor tho most part 
'unsuiccessful. Now they made many 
.food shots and shots from under tho 
basket. Bowlldorol horotoforo by tho 
passing and lloor work of tho Plaid, 
'they now Intercepted pass aftor pass 
with doadly effect. But II. was tho 
crumbling or tho homo defonso that 
contributed) much to tho victory of 
tlio ,Yellow Jaickots.
With all din respect for tho visi
tors, tho Plaid showed moro spood. 
sharpor cutting for tho baskets, hot
ter team and Individual play than 
did tlio visitors. Tho Slcibos wor 
handicapped by hifclc of practice, and 
by '(ho frequent substitutions which 
Coach Lubic used In order to got a 
lino on iLlio various combinations 
which ho has boon working upon, 
The Waynosbu^g outfit was somewhat 
moro fortunate in tho matter of Ir 
throws converted into points. Jim
my Robertson, tho grid star, mado his 
courti dobuto by showing a Hash ol 
speed which. proni.lm*s LSERR for the 
.future. Mohrniun played tho other 
guard' and covered his torrltoryi in a 
steady, n.ggrosulvo manner.
Anderson and Newman at forwards 
and Mol'or.t at center completed, tin 
Plaid roster. However, Dosoy did 
somo good work tho fow minutes lie 
was In tho Kamo and Toots Amans 
performed well. Goodwin roliovod 
Mefort 11 center, but was faced by 
tho giant Snyder, who Is about 0 feet 
\ inches in height, and who pulled 
tho host Individual playing for the 
visitors. Tho lineup:
Carnogle20 Waynesburg2-1.
Andorson (c) .... F....................... Hoy
Nowman ..............F...................... Love
Mefort ...................C.................. Snyder
Mohrman .............O............. (c) Irwin
Robertson ............C..................... Willis
Score by periods:
Carnogie Tech.............. 8 3 9 020
Waynesburg ............... 2 6 8 824
Substitutions  Carnegie Tech: 
Amans for Newman, Goodwin for Me
fort, Dosey) for Andierson, Newman 
for Amans, Mefort for Goodwin, An
derson for Dosey, Amans for New
man, Dosey for Amans, Goodwin for 
Mefort; Wayne:-burg: EtSiyre for
Willis, Hoffman for Love; Willis for 
Etnyre.
Field goalsCarnegie Tech: An
derson 3, Mefort 2, Robertson 2. 
Newman, Mohrman. Waynesburg: 
Snyder 5, Hoffman 4, Hoy.
Free throwsCarnegie Tech: An
derson, 0 out of 5; Mefort, 1 out of 
2; Robertson, 1 out of 2. Waynes
burg: Hoy, 0 out of 2; Snyder, 4
out of 6; Hoffman, 0 out of 4;
Etnyre, 0 out of 2.
RefereeA1 Slack. UmpireHar
vey Westlake.
Young ITugheson, at college found 
himself short of money, so wrote Ills 
father the following letter:
Dear Dad: I am writing for a
check rather sooner than I expected, 
but you see, several bills have come 
In all at oncebooks, lab. fees, sub
scriptions, etc. Please end it off as 
soon as possible.
"Your affectionate son. 
The father replied:
"My Doar Son: I received your let
ter today, and am sending you tho 
chock you asked for: f was at collogo 
once myself, you know. With love, 
"Dad."
P. S.Is sho good looking?
Northern Review.
HeIt was terrible. She barely 
had time to leap from tho bath, grab 
an overcoat and escape from the 
burning building.
SheWell Ive heard of scantier rai
ment than that.
But it was a mackinaw.Cento.
In a preliminary to tho Waynes* 
burg game tho varsity scrubs played 
a closo fast gamo with the Fresh
men eaters and won, 29 to 2G.
Tho first half of ,the gamo was 
played nip and tuck, t.no varsity 
scrubs keeping but a point or two 
loud on the Freshmen. Until the oud 
of the first half thegamo was in 
favor of tiho scrubs, but as the 
whistle blow tlio Plebes scored a 
basket, getting a ontf-polnt lead on 
tlio scrubs and making the score 
14 to 13 at the half.
In tho third quarter Coach Irwin 
put tho Freshman second team in 
tho game. The scrubs taking advan
tage of this thilled a twelve point 
lead on the Plebes, and before tho 
quarter ended Coa:ch Irwin put ilio 
regular five back into the game.
The rogulmrs being fresh launched 
a strong offensive and soon brought 
their score to within one point oi 
tho varsity scrubs. The scrubs then 
tallied another score, and the game 
ended making a itihree point lend for 
the scrubs.
Harris showed up well for the 
scrubs making six field goals. Maur
er and Tate led tho Plebes1 scoring,
with four doublo counters each. The
lineup:
Plebes2(5. Varsity) Scrubs29.
Snothou ................F....................... Cook
Maurer ............... .F....................Harris
Tate ................ ...C................. Sullivan
Levinson .........G................ Comfort
Plummer .........G............. Buckley
Field goalsHarrisG, Maurer 4, 
Tate 4, Cook 3, Comfort 3, Sullivan. 
Eoldstoin, Plumimer, Woilfor, Levin
son. Foul goalsPlebes, G out of 
23; Varsity Scrubs, 3 out of 13. Sub
stitutionsPlcibs, Lynch for Snolihen, 
Eseher for Maurer, Burnside for 
Tate, Foldstoin for Plummer. Referee 
John Irwin.
They kiss me In tho parlor,
They kiss mo In tho hall,
Im kissed a hundred times a day, 
Dont bo shocked Im only a billiard 
ball.
Poly Press.
Sho: Do you think I can ovor do
anything with my volco.
Prof.: It may como In handy In
caso of fire.Mlnnosota Dally.
Studenta denlrlng to do evening 
shopping for glfto and grootlng cardn, 
enn get into tho Singer Pen and Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcndo, until 9:30 p. m.
A universal custom 
that benefits ovoryEwrv fcody* Aids digestion, 
cloanses tlio Icoth, 
soothes tho thronl.
ffer
Meal
WMEYS
a $ood thm$to remember
Soaluil in 
ils Purity
THE^>5 
FLAVOR LASTS
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists' and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students:
Prizes Are Awarded Annually 
for Meritorious Work in 
College Studies
The full Hat of scholarships nwftrdad to CavnoKio students for the school 
year 1928-24, Is published below. 
Theso scholarships aro awarded for 
tho most part, on tho basis of high 
scholarship, and this must bo main
tained if tho scholarships are to bo 
retained.
Fellowships.
Collogo of Engineering, Department 
of Co-operative Mining Engineering: 
Alvin Ludwig Barth, Philadelphia, 
Pa.; (Minos Safety Appliance Com
pany Fellowship); Charles William 
Nelson, Pittsburgh. (Hillman Coal & 
Colto Company Fellowship); John 
Malcolm Pratt, West Chester, Pa.; 
William Wallace Teague, Columbiana, 
Ala.; Howard Eavonson Wetzel, Bellefonte, Pa.; Ford Wilson, Salem, Oro.
Margaret Morrison Carnegio Col
lege; Department of Social Science: 
Mary Sanford MeKahan, Waynesburg, 
Pa.
College of Engineering: Clnss of
1925: Edgar Bell. John G. Bright,
Harry W. Foster, Abraham Grodnor, 
Frederick M. McClelland, Francis B. 
Maloy, Joseph S. S'chuchort, Earl 
Clinton Tatum. Clags of 192G: Harry 
E. Ashworth, Louis Barbrow, Ralph F. 
Boilsteln, Douglas I-I. Benson, William 
R. Berunrdi, Glenn R. Davis, Goorgo 
W. Ivoown, Louis C. Lustenborgor, 
Ross D. Lustonborger, Louis Marolinic, Frederick W. Moore, John J. Mur
ray, John C. Robinson, William R. 
Stott, Edward W. Wright, Jr., Frank
B. Zink. Class of 1927: Thomas A.
Elkina, Clarence E. Pock, John K. 
Shoub, Robert IT. Snyder, Paul C. 
Strauoli, Frank W. Swoilo, John A. 
Till, Edward A. Toblaz, Willard S. 
Vaughn, Anthony J. Voraldl, Harry J. 
Williams.
Collogo of Tndustrlos, Class of 1920: 
Richard Hawko.
Margaret Morrison Carnogle Col
logo, class of 1925: Margaret A. Allon, Mary E. Angormyor, Anna M. 
Clawson, Carol L. Folglit;, Cathorlno 
M. Moron, Mildred P. Moron, Wilma 
E. Stinor. Class of :I92(I: Margaret
D. Connor, Hilda G. Cooper, ICathloon 
P. Gallaghor, Estelle F. Garibaldi, Hos
ier E. Grlllln, Mabol A. McTvoo, Anna 
M. Martin, Juno Norn, Elizabeth J. 
Schwartz, Bessie L, Yuspraeh. Class 
of 1927: Helen 1<\ Bishop, Gonovlovo 
10. Connors, Elizabeth V. Hayes, 
Loulso .1. Komona, Margaret E. Me* 
Gann, Margaret P. Nuttull, Maj*garet
C. Spronklo, Gwondolyn 0. Tltloy, 
Mary E. Tuokor.
Pounder's Scholarships, awarded by 
tho Institute to students of high stand
ing In tlio Son lor, Juno and Sopho
more classes: Collogo of Flno Arts?
Juliet Bartlottl, East Pittsburgh, Her
bert AV. Damon, Baron, Ohio, Grotchen Hoffman, Erlo, Pa,, Mario Anna 
Kleyle, Monaca, Pa.; Joseph Lazarus, 
Pittsburgh; Carl N. Robason, Waynosvlllo, N. 0.
College or Engineering: Joseph S. 
Ambrose, Clalrton, I'a.; Atwood Y. 
Blair, WIIklnsburK; Hymen Diamond, 
Pittsburgh; Willis 0. Foniollus, Og
den, Utah; Walter .1. Lyman, Buffalo, 
N. Y.; Qoorgo B, MeElhony, Pitts
burgh; David Moskovit/,, Pittsburgh; 
Albert O. Patterson, Pittsburgh; Fred
erick D. Rossini, Mononsallola, Pa.; 
Lawronco E, Smith, Now Britain, 
Conn.
Collogo of industries: William K.
Jeffrey, Jr. .Minneapolis, Minn.; Ray 
B. Keller, North Tonawanda, N. Y.; 
Fred T. Phelps, Minneapolis, Minn,; 
Reginald Rowloy, Wheeling, W. Va.; 
Carl W. Sandberg, Jamostown, N. Y.; 
Frank A. Stiles, Rosllndalo, Mass.
Margaret Morrison Carnoglo Col
lege: Elslo W. Blackburn, Trafford,
Pa.; Zula B. Brumbaugh, Juniata, Pa.; 
Margaret V. Kauffman, Roaring 
Spring, Pn.; Jane Shoaffer Markel, 
Pittsburgh; Rebecca M. Pontius, Pltts(Contlnued on Page Four.)
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1886. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Fisher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
Compliments
ot
Skibo Inn
LOOK!
Ladies and Gentlemens Apparel Cleaned, Pressed 
and Mended.
Shoe Shining and Laundry Service.
' Work called for and delivered.
THE STUDENT VALET SHOPPE
Student Management.
107 WELCH HALL C. I. T. Phone Schenley 9468
Aufliammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan SquareEast Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
DO YOU KNOW?
That tho ilrnL statistics of tlio pow
er Hurvoy of Pennsylvania now being 
made by tho Commercial Department 
hre shows that Pittsburgh used for 
it stool mills betwoon six ami nine 
million ton of coal annually previous 
to 1920; Now ubo UBB moro tlian 
that.
That '"I'iio Shoot Molai Worker 
quotod our recent article about the 
careor of H. it. Bohnert of Miami.
That tho Wilmington, Dol., Journal 
of November 20, contained an Inter
view by Professor .Tames concerning 
tlio future of tlio American Dye In
dustry.
That "Jtita Coventry," which wan 
ilrst put on a stage boro In tho Little 
Theater, has boon lllmed and VA be* 
Jug shown under tho name of: "Dont 
Call It Lovo.
Student Volunteers 
Meet in Indianapolis
Fourteen Represent Carnegie 
From Dec. 28 to Jan. 1
Carnegio Tech was woll represent
ed at the Student Volunteer Conven
tion at Indianapolis, held from Decem
ber 28 to January 1. Fourteen were 
there including Dean Drown, Prof. H. 
K. Kirkpatrick, Blair Jessop, Jane 
Marlcell, Mabel McKee, Ruth Garbische, Jane Nern, Dorothy Schmalliorst, Esther Johnston,J ID. E. Kearns, 
Han*y Ashworth, Allen Nern, Max 
Bastian and Cy I-Ioennlgor.
There were over Bix thousand stu
dents there and a very deep and linBuffalo Clan Holds HAAREN MEMORIAL  
Big Annual Banquet TO BE PUT IN GYM
Buddy Overend Speaks on 
Football and Gym
The Buffalo Clan held its ninth an
nual bamiuot at the Touralne Hotel, 
Buffalo, on the evening of December 
28. Tho best turnout that ha over 
boon known In the. organization en
joyed one of tho most entertaining 
evenings that the clan ha ever enjoy
ed. Over thirty men wore seated at 
tlio long table when the feast began.
Keeping true to ills promise R. E. 
Townsend, chairman, had secured 
three of tho best speakers that ever 
draped a.banquet table.
First among those was A. E. Hay, a 
Scotchman, with tlio mother-tonguo 
Btill blessing 1)1 specch. lie gave 
S'ome Serious Though, and Others 
Not So Serious. His was both en
tertaining and Instructive, tho key
note belhg work, porsevoronce and 
service. Tho boys enjoyed his chat 
very much.
E. W. Carson, Penn State '10, was 
listed as one of tho speakers of tlio 
evening, but duo to unforseen difficul
ties, was unable to attend tho ban
quet. In RIRA place Tommy I-Iughitt, 
former University of Michigan foot
ball star and now owner and a mem
ber of the Buffalo All-American team,
Carnegie Men and Women 
Will Each Give Quarter 
to Tablet-Fund
 CHARITY SHOW AT 
SCHENLEY THEATER! DO YOU RECALL?
WATCH THE ALUMNUS
At a mooting of the Youngstown 
Clan, Buddy Ovorend, tho now Grad
uate Manager of Athletics, delivered 
an address. There is nothing partic
ularly newsy about that. Wo dare
say, the good Clansmen of Youngs
town have heard a good many 
speeches before and after that one, 
and possibly oven bettor ones.
That is beside the question, howover. The point is that after tho 
speech, the folks got together, and 
right tliero it was decided to start 
a collection among students and 
alumni. NO ONE CAN GIVE MORE 
THAN TWENTY-FIVE CENTS to tho 
fund, but It is expected that every 
alumnus will give that, yes, but why?
As you know, our first Cradiuiato 
Manager, Frank I-Iaaron, died last 
spring. His health broke down under 
tho strain of his work. It Is evident 
that anyone that could take Car
negies athletics and bring them to 
the present high plane, must have 
worked hard, and we all know that 
Frank did. In view of this fact tho
Clan members of YoungBtown decided 
spoke on Inter-collegiate Football Re-1 that as a mark of our appreciation of
Alumni In all parts of the country 
are urged to look carefully in the Feb
ruary issue of the Carnegio Alumnus. 
An opportunity Is offered there to get 
something you want, and if you should 
not take notice of the fact in due time 
you will most likely be out of luck for
another year at least. 
Alumnus.
Watch tho
HARTFORD CLAN
latlons. Tommy Is a good mixer and 
tho follows folt that a new friend 
had come amongst them whom theyd 
known for years. He was very enter
taining and was well appreciated.
Then as tho big event of the even
ing, Buddy Overend, our own Gradu
ate Manager of Athletics, gave tho 
clan some straight from tlio shoulder
prosBlvo interest was shown in Dio | ttopo. ir oxplnlnod Ilici reason for
various discussions. Subject like 
Industrial and Social Problems, by 
Mr. Blanchard; "Race Problems, by 
various speakers from/ China, Japan, 
Africa, Arabia and other countries.
S'herwood Eddlo made a most inter
esting spooch on "Social and Intellec
tual Unrest, He said that there was 
a revolt going on In Europe, Youth 
versus the old Social Order. Ho alno 
questioned If America was alright 
with its RAAUEM of materialism, law
lessness, Industrialization, and racial 
autocracy. Tlio solution to all these 
problems 1h found In Christ's works 
and buildings.
Otlior speakers wore Honorablo 
Newton Rowell of Canada, Doctor 
Robert Sponr, John R. Mott, Prof. Yohnn Maslk of India, J. KJnguloy Blrgo 
of Moslom World, Fr. Paul Harrison 
of Arabia, Rov, Hood of England, 
Prof. Andreas Asuna of Mexico, Rov. 
Keller of Switzerland, and many 
others.
Campus problems wore discussed, 
and all cumo back with a. higher and 
better Idea, of how to Improve condi
tions on our campus, to Improve ra
cial relations, to help uhapol and the 
"Y, and above all a sincero resolve 
to live a better llfo,
SCIENCE l'ROI I SSOR
GETS NEW POSITION
Carnogle not scheduling Caneslus and 
University of Buffalo on their football 
schedule. Tho clan has boon working 
for years to get the team to play In 
Buffalo, but never has succeeded. 
Buddy showed them It was Impractacablo at the present time. He also 
gave tho clan somo nows about the 
new gym, and answered scores of 
questions that wore fired at him.
With tho end of Buddys spooch, the 
singing of school songs and tho yell
ing of Carnogle cheers made the ho
tel ring from top to bottom. When 
everyone had ventilated his lungs to 
the fullest extont tho old hand shakos 
wont around and tho party broke up 
until next Christmas vacation,
ills labors, a bronze memorial plate 
be erected in his honor in the new 
gymnasium which is the fulfillment of 
his dreams. If you appreciate his 
work, send in your quarter. .
If all those who knew and liked 
Frank and his work will thus show 
their appreciation, the fund will bo 
ample for the purpose. But only a 
quarter from each. You can send 
yours In the form of stamps mailed to 
tho Graduate Manager, Carnegie 
Tocli.
NBQYuutomaiQi YoB 
crrBoBe rBuucsidan
A now appointment to tho faculty 
oC Science School was mude known 
today-namely, that ol! Mr. Lawrence 
II, Miller of the Chemical .Depart
ment, au Supervisor ol! Equipment for 
tho on tire school.
This now appointment Is effective 
the first oil February and It fill tho 
vacancy nitido by the resignation of 
Mr. M. it. Walton last Juno.
Mr. Miller received his U, S. degree 
ut Colgate in 1018. lie then accepte! 
xi position as chemist with tho Gen* 
eral Chemical Company ol! New York 
'City, where ho remained until Sep
tember, 1010. In October of the same 
year ho came to Carnegio us an in
structor in chemistry. He held tills 
position until the first of this year, 
when ho received promotion to his 
new oillce.
A fellowship In Metallurgy has just 
boon established by the Department 
of Metallurgical and Mining Engineer
ing, and for which an appointment Is 
to bo made Immediately,
Tho fellowship will be under tho 
gonorul supervision of the Advisory 
Board of tho Dopartmont of Metallur
gical and Mining Englnoorlug, The 
first problem to bo studied under tho 
fellowship is an Investigation of tho 
effects of small percentages of phos
phorus on the physical proportion of 
low carbon steel especially under al
ternating stresses and shock. In his 
Investigations, says tho announce
ment, the fippolnteo will bo given tho 
full co-operation of tho mem hors of 
tho Advisory Board, which was re
cently organized and Includes a prom
inent group of Pittsburgh district en
gineers and Industrial executives,
The fellowship pays $750.00 for tho 
ton months of tho college year. As 
an appointment will bo made prompt
ly for the remainder of tho college 
year, applications aro now being so
licited. Candidates are requested to 
address W. E. Mott, Director* Collogo 
of Engineering.
Prof. Trinks who came to Hartford 
to read a paper before the Hartford 
Branch of The American Society of 
Steel Treaters, was greeted by about 
ton of the former students and grad
uates who "were interested listeners 
to information which Prof. Trinks 
gave concerning the school. After 
tho dinner the alumni went in a body 
to hear Prof. Trinks read his paper 
before the Steel Treaters.
Those present included Ray Woolson, Seth Johnson, C. E. Rutherford, 
E. G. Lambert, L. C. Foog, J. Gelman, E. Levin, and R. W. Arnold.
Some interesting developments in 
the affairs of the Connecticut clan are 
taking place and it is believed that 
these are of sufficient Interest to all 
Carnegie men in the Connecticut 
area to warrant their being closely 
followed.
Get In touch with R. W. Arnold, 
353 Sigourney street, Hartford, Conn., 
for further information and be posted 
on the activities of this clan.
WOMENS CLAN OF CLEVELAND
DEAN BROWN PICKING 
BEAUTY CONTEST CUP
Stealing a kiss is not petty larceny. 
It is grand.Cento.
Publisher: You say you havo writ
ten a book entitled, Why Boys Go to 
College? What do you know about it 
you are no college boy?
Fair Authoress: No, but I used to 
be a chorus girl.Virginia Tech.
Dean Brown is spending her spare 
time trying to make a selection of a 
cup for the Beauty Contest. Her win
dow sill is adorned with cups of va
rious sizes and shapes, and sho Is un
decided as to the one sho should pick.
There is little to do on the actual 
work of tho contest until all of the 
pictures have boon finished. The 
photographer has boon trying to get 
in all of the proofs, and up until the 
Xmas vacation ho has boon unsuc
cessful. Tlioro is no doubt, however, 
that they will all bo In by the begin
ning of tho now Bemostor, and the 
contest will again got under way, 
This means that the judgos will havo 
to pick the six most beautiful, and 
send tho results to the editor. 'Plion 
the final pickings will bo assomblod 
before the Sun Movie photographer, 
and tho Pa tho Nows for further shoot
ing. The prlzos will bo awarded as 
soon as the contest lias como to a 
close, and the pictures will bo put Into 
proper shape for tho Thlstlo, 
it Is hoped that the contest has not
Martha Potter Foster and Mildred 
Lawrence entertained the Cleveland 
Clan of Carnegie Steel women with 
a luncheon on Saturday, December 15. 
Miss Clara Davidson, a former teach 
er of the Margaret Morrison, College, 
who is now located in Cleveland, was 
a guest at the luncheon. Miss Dor 
otliy Harlow will be hostess at the 
next luncheon on Saturday, January 
10.
1528; Mr. F. C. Young,, care KenzelLitt Corporation, phone John 2011; 
Mr. V. C. Ritter, care Madison Square 
Press, phone Lackawanna 7292.
There are a number of new mem
bers in tho New York territory whose 
names are not entered on the Clans 
record and they are anxious to have 
all such people, as well as the bet
ter known alumni. Get in touch with 
the committee and make arrange
ments for reservations. Remember 
the date, which is February 2.
WASHINGTON CLAN
Carnegie Night Planned for 
Snapshots of 1924 on 
January 16
The Washington Carnegie Clan en
tertained the Washington undergrad
uates of Carnegie Tech at d Christmas 
dance held (Saturday evening, Decem
ber 22, at the Theta Delta Chi Frater
nity House, 1731 P street, N. W. 
House Manager George Graham, 
worked up elaborate decorations and 
attended to inside arrangements, 
while Carl Zobel did the outside hust
ling for the clan. Zobel put In a lot 
of time and good work in arranging 
engagements for the men and girls 
who were not dated up, and also 
worked hard on advertising the af
fair. Refreshments at the party were 
in charge of Miss Kathryn Harris, an 
alumna of the College of Fine Arts. 
The dance was attended by about 
twenty couples, not including the un
dergraduate guests.
Any students of Carnegie who re
side in or near Washington are urged 
to send their name and address to 
Mr. J. R. Arnold, 24 Second street, N. 
E., Washington, D. C. By so doing 
they will assure themselves of no
tices and invitations for all future 
parties of the Washington Carnegie 
Clan.
BALTIMORE CLAN
NEW YORK CLAN
The annual dinner of the New York 
Carnegie Clan will be held Saturday, 
February 2, at 7:00 P. M., in the Co
lonial Room of the Hotel McAlpln. 
The dinner is in charge of a commit
tee composed of the following: Mr.
S. A. Smith, care Elyria Enameled 
Products Company, phone MiirrayliiU
The Baltimore Carnegie Clan held 
a meeting on Wednesday, December 
5, at the office of Mr. Crownover, man
ager of the Marylahd Glass Company. 
After the meeting, the members of 
the Clan were tlcaen on an inspection 
trip through the plant. It was sug
gested that Dr. Baker or Professor 
Trinks be invited down to speak to 
the Engineers Club of which both Mr. 
Diehl and' Mr. Crownover are mem
bers.
Any Carnegie men or women who 
are living in Baltimore or the vicinity 
are urged to get; in touch with Mr. 
Paul Dickey, 1338 Continental Build
ing, Baltimore, Maryland. ________
Arrangements have been completed 
for Carnegie Night, at the Junior 
League Charity Show to be held in 
the Schenley Theater, January 15, 16 
and 17. Special prices will be made 
on Carnegie Night to students. A 
block of five hundred seats has been 
set aside. This arrangement has 
been made possible by the hearty co
operation given the committee by our 
students and alumni in completing the 
program.
"Snapshots of 1924 is a musical re
view directed by Charles S. Morgan, 
Jr., who has gained a reputation as 
director of the Princeton Triangle 
Shows. The principals as well as the 
choruses are Pittsburgh's own beauti
ful girlsdebutantes and members of 
the younger set. The show is being 
held under itflie auspices of the Junior 
League of Pittsburgh and the pro
ceeds will go to Pittsburgh charity.
EvOry number on the program is 
full of snap. The Collegiate Imps, 
with a ten-piece orchestra, will be one 
of the outstanding features of the 
program, and our own Obie New
man will sing some of his favorite 
Blues, accompanied by the banjo 
artist, Rodney Van Atta.
A great deal of publicity will be 
given Carnegie Night, Wednesday, 
January 16th, and a crowded Carnegie 
section is assured. Fraternities have 
already spoken for blocks of seats, 
but no definite reservations can be 
made until the seats are on sale on 
the campus. Watch the bulletin 
boards for further announcement, and 
make your plans now to occupy a 
seat in the Carnegie section, and sup
port the Carnegie men on the pro
gram as well at Pittsburgh charity 
workers.
When the School of Drama was 
opened. The campus was abustle 
with excitement as the finishing 
touches were added to the Little 
Theater. Great Hopes were enter
tained concerning the future of the 
department, and a survey now indi
cates that it has lived up to all that 
was expected of it. Thomas Wood 
Stevens was added to the faculty to 
head the new department. It is hard 
to realize that this was only ten years 
ago.
The old Dramatic Club performed 
the Pageant of the Months before ca
pacity audiences, just after vacation.
Billy Sunday made converts by the 
hundreds among Carnegie men and 
women.
And it all happened ten years ago 
this week.
FORMER STUDENT IS 
AWARDED FELLOWSHIP
Oscar T. I-Ielfenbein, of Swissvale, 
a graduate of the music department 
here has just been awarded a fellow
ship by the Juillard Musical Founda
tion in New York for piano study at 
the New York Institute of Musical 
Art. The fellowship becomes effect-, 
ive immediately to continue for the 
remainder of the school year at the In
stitute.
Mr. Helfenbein was recommended 
for appointment by the music faculty 
at Carnegie Tech. Appointment by 
the Juillard Musical Foundation was 
made following an examination to 
which he was submitted by Frank 
Damrosch at the New York Institute. 
of Musical Art.
He was graduated with a Bachelor 
of Arts degree at Carnegie Tech with 
the class of 1923.
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR
1923-24 ANNOUNCED
(Connued From Page Three.) 
burgh; Gladys Reynolds, Wattsburg, 
Pa.
Scholarsliips from Prvate Donors, 
Collogo of Fine Arts: Alpha Ivappa
Pal, Mary Elizabeth Powor, Pittsburgh. Anony mou8 DonorsToasdalo Barney, St. Louis, Mo.; Lydla 
Holler, AmlierBti Oblo. Juilllard Mu
sical FoundationElennor Meoklenburg, Bollovue; Petor Horollck, Plttsthoso who aro Interested In It, dur 
Ing tho vacation, and it is hoped that 
If will moot the approval of ovoryono 
on tho campus when It ban boon com
pleted.
George: I hour you and your girl
had an awful fight.
Hugh: You. She said 1 was all
the world to her one night
George: Yes, go on.
George: And I asked her to got off 
the earth a minuto while I rested my 
knee.Black and Magenta.
Flapper: Lioolt hero, father, I wish
you wouldnt leave my millinery bills 
lying around on the table just when 
Arthur is on the verge of proposing. 
Voo Doo.
Dont try to be a toe dancer, said 
the girl as she pushed Linsoy off her 
feet.The Springfield Student.
burgh; Armand Fllomono Vendlttl,II. in IIIJIMIW mill tllll MIIII.UitL 1111(1 IIUL .1 T
lompleloly KOUO ml of tlio inlmlH of  burg .; Bertha U Charm,nm. .................................. Pittsburgh. Junior American Red
CrossJoannetto C. Flansbaum, Pitts
burgh.Lucy Stowo Citizens League
-Charlotte D. Enty, Pittsburgh.
Pennsylvania State Scholarship 
Gladys Illldogarde York, Scranton,, 
Pa. Robert W. Spring Memorial 
Scholarship  Way no F. Koppos, 
Elyria,,Ohio. Sine Honilno Society 
Myron H. Goodwin, S'harlino, Ohio; 
'Southern ClubCharles McCarthy, 
Pittsburgh. Sparks Momorlnl Schol
arshipFrank Siiiolen, Webster, Pa. 
Stage and Play SocietyEllon Lowe, 
Chicago, 111. Womens Club of Oak
landOlivia Koenig, Edgewood, Pa.
College of Engineering: Alvan M.
Clements Memorial Scholarship 
George Edward Slye, Hartford, Conn. 
Pennsylvania State Scholarships 
Charles N. Bower, New Bloomfield, 
Pa.; Thomas A. Elkins, Pittsburgh; 
William Martin Fencil, Chicora, Pa.; 
Roy Arthur Garbett, McKeesport; 
John G. McCausland, Pittsburgh; 
Charles F. New, Washington, Pa.; Al
bert C. Patterson, Pittsburgh; Samuel 
J. Sugerman, Pittsburgh; Frank L. 
Wagner, Somerset, Pa. iSine Nomine 
SocietyJohn A. Cooke, Pittsburgh; 
Westingliouse Electric and Manufac
turing CompanyGeorge E. Doty, 
Pittsburgh.
College of Industries: Boston TypothetaeRobert Freeman Nicholls, 
Boston, Mass.; Frank A. Stiles, Roslindale, Mass. Miller Saw Trimmer 
CompanyGeorge H. Carl, Pitts
burgh; Frank Edmond Powers, North 
Glenside, Pa. New York Employing 
Printers AssociationAlbert O. Jen
nings, Jr.; Albury Park, N. J. Sine 
Nomine SocietyDwiglit V. Boede, 
Youngstown, Ohio.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege: Anonymous DonorAlice M.
Blass, Erie, Pa. Class of 1909Mary
D. Heillg, Benton Harbor, Mich. Class 
of 1926Estelle Frances Garibaldi, 
Pittsburgh. Irene Kaufmann Settle
mentSarah E. Sussman, Pittsburgh. 
Margaret Morrison Alumnae Associa
tionThe Frances Camp Parry Me
morial Scholarship to Blanche Hum
phrey, Plumville, Pa.; the Harriet 
Ellis Memorial Scholarship to Vir
ginia II. Pope, Perrysburg, Ohio. 
Pennsylvania State Scholarship  
Margaret' E. McFall, Monongaliela, 
Pa. Womens Club of Pittsburgh 
Mary D. 1-Ielllg, Benton Harbor, Mich. 
Young Womens Christian Association 
of Carnegie. Institute of Technology 
Martha E. Zimmerman, Pittsburgh.
(Scholarships and Prizes Awarded 
During the Second Semester of 1922- 
1923. Scholarships, College of Fine 
Arts: American Conservatory of Mu
sic, ChicagoThe Josef Lhevinno 
Honor Scholarship, Oscar Ladislas 
Holfonbofn. Swissvale Art Society of 
PittsburghHewlett Memorial Schol
arship for Summer Study Abroad in 
Music, Charles A. Hays Pearson, 
Pittsburgh. Junior American Red 
CrossJeannette C. Flansbaum, Pitts
burgh; Le Brun Award in Architec
ture(European Travel) to Paul F. 
Simpson, Lima, Ohio; Pittsburgh 
Chapter, American Institute of Archi
tectsJohn C. Topniclc, Pittsburgh. 
Scarab ScholarshipWilliam C. Pyle, 
Parkersburg, W. Va. The Sparks 
Memorial ScholarshipEdwin V. Hud
son, Wilkinsburg.
College of Engineering, Birdie W. 
Rauh Memorial ScholarshipDavid 
Moskovitz, Pittsburgh. Founders 
ScholarshipJoseph Stephen Am
brose, Clairton, Pa. George H. Smith 
Memorial ScholarshipJoseph C. Ma
jor, Pittsburgh. Mathematics Facul
ty, Donor, to Frederick D. Rossini, 
Monongaliela, Pa.
College of Industries: Miller SawTrimmer CompanyGeorge H. Carl, 
Pittsburgh; Fred T. Phelps, Minne
apolis, Minn. Pittsburgh Builders 
ExchangeJohn D. Andrews, Mill
ville, N. J.; Joseph Davis, Buffalo, N. 
Y.; William Harrison Douglas, Post 
Graduate, Topeka, Kan.; Arthur Wm. 
Hedgren, Omaha, Ne.; William H. 
Justice, Pittsburgh; Charles J. Kuhn, 
Charleston, W. Va.; MacGregor-Cutler 
Printing CompanyWilliam K. Jeff
rey, Jr., Minneapolis, Minn.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege: Pittsburgh Female College
Alumnae AssociationDoris E. My
Munliall, Pa. United States Marine 
Biological LaboratoryAlice Mary 
Blass, Erie, Pa.; Mary D. Heilig, Ben
ton Harbor, Mich. Young Womens 
Christian Association of Carnegie In
stitute of TechnologyBlanche Hum
phrey, Plumville, Pa.
Prizes: College of Fine ArtsMrs.
John L. Porter Prizes for Progress 
Teasdale Barney, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; 
Edwin P. Couse, Crafton; Glenn I. 
Frost, East Springfield, Ohio; James 
Denton Hogan, Camp Hill, Pa.; John 
Shipman Osier, Pittsburgh; Helen C. 
Remaley, Greensburg, Pa.
College of Engineering: Margaret
Barclay Wilson Essay PrizesIsaac 
H. Isaacs, Youngstown, Ohio; John 
H. Kinghorn, Wheeling, W. Va. Mathe
matics PrizesMathematics Faculty, 
Donor: Gold Medal for excellence in
mathematics, David Moskovitz, Pitts
burgh; Silver Medal, Louis Barbrow, 
Pittsburgh: Silver Medal, Robert V.
Reiner, Middletown, O.
Scholarships for Students in Even
ing Classes; awarded by the Institute 
to students  of liigl; standing for tlio 
proceeding year; College of Fine 
Arts: Sara M. Bowes, Daniel II.
Kaney, John E. McCambridge, Janies 
N. Rila, William Conrad Thoma.
College of Engineering: Sidney G.
Bond, Constantine J. Cony, George M. 
Hirning, Henry Seidel, William Shaw.
College of Industries: Oliver J.
Brady, Patrick Coyne, James W. Ear
ly, George J. Fundls, Mark Gazzo, Jo
seph J. Gelsler, Donald S. Jones, LeRoy A. Nall, Arthur T. Williams, Wil
liam Albert Zabel.
POLITICAL WIZARDS TO 
ORGANIZE ON CAMPUS
Someone thinks that Carnegie stu
dents are old enough to vote and con* 
sequently the Tartan gets material 
from each and every political party 
in existence, and from those not yet 
in existence, in order* that it may run 
a political campaign of its own. The 
only trouble is that those political 
parties to be never thought that the 
students lwlio are old enough to vote 
are too busy to bother with it.
It has been found, by research ed
itors on the staff, that forty-seven 
different candidates are running for 
the office of president, and each one 
lias a couple of assistants, who do 
nothing but send in dope for the Tar
tan to publish. The same research 
editor lias found that none of the 
dope has been published as yet, and 
lie thinks that It very likely -will never 
be put in print.
Henry Ford has sent in a number 
of bulletins about his platform for 
loading and unloading Fords. Hiram 
Johnson has sent a few farm cata
logues to prove the heads of the farm 
legislation are "en bloc. Cal. Coolidge sent in a couple of post cards 
with the White House shown on them, 
and with his name posted on the gate 
as President.
The only cnmiment Is that if Ford 
is elected there will hardly be another 
Lincoln in the White House.
What a difference'1 just a few cents make !FATIMA
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia630 Clyde ....................................................................Schenley 91S9
Alpha Tau Omoga254 Bollolleld..........................................Schenley 9102
Beta Sigma Rho1116 Wlghtman.........................................Schenley 9376
Beta Theta PI55-19 Forbes.......................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Tail Delta4902 Forbos.................................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon5224 Liberty...................................................Hiland 0S5S
Kappa Sigma624 Clydo.........................................................Sclienlqy 9401
Pi Kappa Alpha1S07 Baum.*...............................................Schenley 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbos.....................................Schenley 9211
Sigma Nu-1921 Forbes...........................................................Schenley 0659
Theta XI5017 Forbes............................................................Schenley 9143
Local Fraternities.
Delta Chi Rho. 140S Wightnian St.........................................Hazel 457S-R
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro.............................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta156 North Craig.........................................Schenley 4490
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins...................................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Sigma Rho44-i Amberson........................................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett...............................................Hazel 939S
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes.....................................................Hazel 9422
Freshman: Wliat is a frat, any
how?
Sophomore: (Impressively): Why
a fraternity is a sort of brotherhood.
Freshman: Well, I dont want to
join. My brother and I could never 
get along.Georgia Tech.
Lucy, I have two tickets for The 
Old Soak.
Oh, Charlie, thats too bad; papa 
isnt feeling well tonight.University 
News.
COUNCIL DRAWS UP CHANGES
IN BANQUET RULES
(Continued From Page One.) 
class presidents to their banquet. In 
case each class has the opponents 
ball the presidents shall attend both 
banquets. The third case in -which 
both classes have only their own ball 
will result in the presidents' attend
ing their own banquet alone. The 
president of the assemblies of the 
three mens schools shall be the 
judges. The fight shall be staged un
der the supervision of upperclassmen 
in order that there shall be no slug
ging, choking, or other unfair prac
tices.
clAlways 710t iced 
hut never noticeable
I
NTO Dunsbire Clothes are tailored 
the many distinctive touches mark
ing the well dressed college man.
The front of the coat is soft and hangs 
in easy folds. The narrow lapels, 
the straight, full sleeves, the broad 
shoulders and loose, easy" backeach 
furnishes its measure of smartness.
The simplicity of design and the crafts
manship of fine tailoring is enhanced 
by a selected range of beautiful fabrics.
Dunsbire Clothes have that graceful 
carelessness of perfection so easy of rec
ognition but so difficult of attainment.
to see them 
Sole Distributor In Pittsburgh and Vicinity.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and Seventh Avenue
