BASKET BALL FRIDAY
GROVE CITY
NEW GYM8:30 P. M.amsair Partati
POST BALL DANCE
ARTS FOYER
SATURDAY9:00 P. M.
VOL. XIX No. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1925
ACCLAIM PROM Artts Expectantly Await Unfolding of
AS CARNEGIES* 
BALL SUPREME!!
RULES NOW IN FORCE -Uff
Popular Verdict Gives 1925 
Prom the Title of Best 
Social Affair
MUSIC IS FINEST
EVER HEARD HERE
Committee Receives Praise 
For So Successfully Man
aging Event
While the thousand colored beams 
from the crystal ball played over the 
walls and ceiling of the darkened 
room, sparkled among the glass pen
dants of the chandeliers, and whirled 
over the forms of dancers whose spir
its seemed lost in the enchanting 
rhythm of the music, the tune chang
ed imperceptibly to Home, Sweet 
Home" and came lingeringly to its 
end. It was 2:30 Saturday morning. 
The lights flashed on, and amid pleas 
for more', the orchestra began hesi
tantly to case its instruments, appar
ently as unwilling as the dancers to 
bring such a glorious evening to a 
close.
From all sides one had his own 
opinion confirmed that it had been an 
evening without a flaw, a ball with
out a counterpart, verily, the master
piece of proms. The setting was ideal; 
the music, supreb; the supper, deli
cious; the programs and favors, bien 
jolis; and the atmosphere, mixed to 
just the right proportion with that 
rare and delectable element which 
waits only upon Junior Proms, and 
which, once captured, elevates that 
dance to heights unattainable by oth
er balls.
One may gather all the superlative 
adjectives upon which his mother 
tongue and cross-word puzzles have 
given him a lien, may use them until 
repitition becomes unendurable, and 
yet leave details of the prom which 
went better descriptive words than 
he ever thought of. To, the class of 
1926 goes the glory, -and to its in
genious and indefatigable committee, 
the credit of putting on the most bril
liant, satisfying, and successful Jun
ior Prom that a proud alma mater 
could wish to cherish.
But a few facts are necessary to 
justify such enthusiasm. Ted Weems' 
Orchestra played what those who 
know call absolutely tlie best dance 
music ever heard in Pittsburgh. The 
lightinga spot light in each of the 
four corners of the balcony playing 
sometimes upon the dancers and 
sometimes upon the crystal ballhad 
an effect that was positively devas
tating The favors,, leather compacts 
bearing the Carnegie seal, gave every 
girl a thrill of pleasure. The supper 
did as much for the men, and the 
scene of the prom made a perfect 
background for the display of its per
fections. And, when it is added that 
innumerable persons of the 560 
present unhesitatingly proclaimed it 
the best dance they ever attended, no 
one will deny that it has set a criter
ion for which future classes may 
strive,it is to be hoped, not in vain.
It is fitting that the names of the 
committee should be published again 
at this time in order that they may 
bask a little in the glory that comes 
from work well planned and success
fully consummated. They are:
Russell Roller, Chairman; Lloyd 
Yoder, Treasurer; Jack Harris, Music; 
Dwight Beede, Student Council Repre
sentative; John OConnor, Hall; Bene
dict Kristof, Supper; George Murphy. 
Publicity; Harold Wagoner, Decora
tions.
PROF. DIBBLE PRESIDENT
OF ENGINEERS SOCIETY
Tlie rules governing the rush*> 
ing of second semester freshv
? men entered in a degree course ?>
? and those students who have v
? changed from a non-degree to a v 
< degree course are practically ?
? the same' as those applied to ?
> the fall registrants. *
*:? There is one exception. A ?> 
v bid may be offered to a rushee v 
v any time after said rushee has ?
? registered for the spring se4*
? m ester. <
v All rushing and bidding shall ?>
cease at Saturday evening. Febv 
?I* ruary 14, and mutual silence ? 
< shall be maintained until noon,
I* 12 oclock, of the following
? (Sunday.) At this hour the v |
? rushee will signify his choice ?
I* by presenting himself at the *
v house of the fraternity of his v 
v choice. From this time on rush*
ing in regards to spring regis*J*
trants shall prevail. ?:
Tale of Two Magic Urns at Annual Fete; 
Hines Bros. Secured For Post Arts Ball
Post Ball Saturday Night to 
be Elaborate and Color
ful Affair
ASSESSMENT SET
AT TWO-FIFTY
..., Design Souvenir Programs 
Bearing Arabian 
Flourishes
TICKET SALE FOR 
GIRLS PROM OPENS
All Arrangements Completed; 
Preliminary Tickets Are 
Five Dollars
Prof. Dibble has recently been elect
ed president of the American Society 
of Heating and Ventilating Engineers 
at its annual conference in New York. 
Last year he held the office of vicepresident and some opposition was 
expected to his becoming president, 
but he easily defeated his opponents 
by a large majority. This organiza
tion is national in scope, including 
member from practically every part 
of the country.
Prof. Dibble is well known at Carne
gie and has been head of the depart
ment of heating and ventilating since 
its institution. He is a .member of 
several national plumbing organiza
tions, as well as government com
missions on sanitation, and has writ
ten one of the texts used in his de
partment.
FAVORS ARE CHOSEN
The preliminary tickets for the Wo
mens Junior Prom are on sale today 
and are five dollars each. The com
mittee in charge is now mainly con
cerned with the sale of these tickets 
as the success of the prom depends 
upon their immediate disposal. These 
tickets may be procured from any of 
the following girls, who comprise the 
general committee: Mary Hill, Mar
ian Dale, Lucile Anderson, Dorothy 
Conner, Harriet Merwin, Ann Martin, 
Mildred Semans, Helen Remaley, and 
Alice Nelson.
All arrangements have been com
pleted for the prom, and the chief 
task now facing the committee be 
fore the evening of February 28, is 
the disposal of the tickets. On that 
evening Jan Garbers Hines Brothers 
Orchestra will fill the Schenley Hotel 
Ballroom with its syncopations.. This 
orchestra, which is the same one that 
is to play for the Arts Ball, Friday 
night, is being imported from a very 
fashionable resort in Florida.
The favors have been definitely de
cided upon and although they will 
remain the proverbial secret until the 
prom, expense was no object when 
the selection was made.
CHESS CLUB TO MEET
NEXT THURSDAY NITE
Hines Brothers Orchestra, the col
legiate harmonizers, who have prov
ed so popular in Pittsburgh, will 
play for the Post Arts Ball this Sat
urday night.
These musicians, who recently fin
ished an engagement in New York, 
where they made their first Victor 
Record, will syncopate from S:30 till 
12:00. They have more than proved 
their ability to keep the life in the 
party for a few hours. The same 
orchestra will play for the Arts Ball 
and the Womens Junior Prom.
Contrary to the popular idea, the 
Post Arts Bail Is not a denouement 
for the Fine Arts Ball of Friday 
night. It is rather a climax of al
most equal pronounce, and far sur
passes the average public dance in 
glamor and pep. All that is missing 
are the costumes and the play of tho 
night before.
The decorations from the Arts Ball 
will be unmolested, save for the 
clearing of the exhibition room to 
provide extra space for dancing. The 
huge crystal sphere, the magnificent 
lanterns of the Arts Ball, will gleam 
forth in all their brilliance. No 
school in the country has decorations 
that will surpass those of Carnegies 
Ball, for any social affair. Drawings 
of the building in full Arabian attire 
are now on display in the foyer. Do 
not decide not to go to tho Post Ball 
bofore seeing these drawingsafter 
seeing them, you wont.
A novel souvenir program, Arabian 
in design, is now being prepared. It 
will make a handsomo addition to 
anyones memory bookand all the 
above may be secured for two dollars 
and fifty cents.
All Carnegie is invited to the Post 
Arts Ball, to strut their modern style 
before the mystics in apparitions, 
and avoid the brilliant splendor of 
old Arabia. Get in on the fun.
The Chess Club of Carnegie will 
again resume activities when a meet
ing will be held Thursday, February 
5, in the Publication office, Indus
tries building. All who can play 
chess, or those who are interested 
in playing, are cordially invited to 
attend this meeting. Able instruc 
tion for amateurs is insured, and 
smokes will be served.
Those who have played on the 
chess team before are planning an 
interesting schedule for the coming 
year. So come out for the meeting 
next Thursday if you would make tho 
chess team.
S. S. McCLURE WILL 
ADDRESS ASSEMBLY
Famons Editor to Speak at 
February Assembly 
Next Tuesday
HAS HAD VARIED LIFE
R. 0. T. C. Rifle Range
Completely Remodeled
The R. O. T. C. rifle gallery has 
been repaired and remodeled until 
it compares favorably with the lead
ing ranges of the country. Col. Fair
ly and Mr. Orbin are to a great ex
tent responsible for this improvement. 
It contains ten firing points and ar
rangements for firing at landscape 
targets. The latter is something 
new to this section of the country, 
no other rifle range in this vicinitj 
being nearly so complete.
The range is situated in the base
ment of the Margaret Morrison Col
lege. It is open this week to all R. 
O. T. C. men from 3:30 to 5:30 p. m. 
daily.
The first, second and third rifle 
teams have been selected. There is 
also a freebooters team for which 
men can compete.
All sharp-shooters are eagerly look
ing forward to the series of rifle 
matches to be held this spring. They 
are the Hearst Trophy Match, the 
Third Corps Area Match and the En
gineer  Trophy Match. The highest 
man will be awarded a Silver Cup by 
Capt. Lyons. The first, second and 
third prizes are gold, silver and 
bronze medals respectively.
MUSICAL CLUBS TO GO
ON BUFFALO TRIP FEB. 11
After the exams, and the Charrotto, 
Manager Lundquist, know just how 
the members of tho Musical Clubs 
leel, so he postponed all of the re
hearsals for last Sunday.
Tomorrow evening both organiza
tions will get together and put on a 
real hard rehearsal for the coming 
trip. Things are shaping up so that 
the clubs will get away on the elev
enth of February for their Buffalo 
trip. This is joyful news for tho 
members, for there is no trip that 
they would rather take.
Warren Kimball, the dancer has 
made The Chant of the Redman 
real joy. The members of tho Glee 
Club did not like to sing it until 
they saw Warren interpret it, bui 
now they know what it is all about, 
and they go to it with new life, and 
try vainly to interpret the music with 
their voices as he does with his danc
ing.
Polesie's Fantasy Portrays 
Gay and Dashing Band 
of Orient
SCENES RICH IN
EASTERN COLOR
Songs by Newman, Chorus 
Dancing by Anne Lurie, 
Solo by Karpova
Samuel S. McClure, the prominent 
editor and publisher, will be the 
speaker of the day at the next gen
eral assembly Tuesday, February 10. 
Mr. McClure will probably lecturo on 
some political or social problem of 
current interest.
Few men have had more interest
ing careers, or harder struggles in 
attaining success, than had Mr. Mc
Clure. His autobiography would 
have inspired Abraham Lincoln to 
greater achievements.
McClure was born in Ireland, of 
French-S'cotch parents. 1-Ie was 
brought to America by his widowed 
mother at the age of seven, bolng 
the oldest of four children. Tho trip 
practically exhausted tho monger 
funds of the family, and necessitated 
young McCluro to seek employment.
Despite his poverty, and the hard
ships suffered during his childhood, 
McCluro managed to acqulro a college 
education, and finally got a position 
with the Century magazine. After 
working for several years In the pub
lishing game he struck out for him
self, and organized a news syndicato. 
Several times ho was on tho brink of 
bankruptcy and failure, but good 
luck, good friends, and hard work 
pulled him through.
Mr. McClure lins boen closely as
sociated with many men of world 
Avido renown, and is now ono of tho 
worlds most important publishers. 
He is tho owner of McClures maga
zine, and has edltod aomo of tho 
works of such authors as A. Conan 
Doyle, Robert Louis Stevenson, and 
Rudyard Kipling.
At midnight, February 6, the mer
rymakers in the Arabian paradise of 
the Art school will have unfolded bo
fore theid dazzled eyes tho Tale of 
the Two Magic Urns. This gor
geous three-act fantasy of Herbert 
Polesies portrays the romantic adveuturings of a gay and dashing 
band of robers, who seek, throughout 
the length and breadth of tho Oriont, 
lovely and precious urns. Tho role 
of Ala Bam, tho swaggering lender 
of the band, is taken by Ohio New
man.
The mighty Calif, Ilaza Mai, some
times Harry Morvls, possossos two 
urns of great beauty and unknown 
mystic powrer. Tho action of tho 
fantasy has to do with tho attempt 
of the robber band to gain posses
sion of those urns. At tho Califs 
court are Majalta, his favorite, and 
Sinjara, his rejected swoetbeart; An
ne Lurie and Zabolla Davis. Ho is 
entertained by Dhinalla, tho royal 
poet. Durbin Horner has this part, 
and tho role of Jolabi, Dhinallas 
sweetheart, is played by Ruth Ash
ton. Allono iSzold and Boulah Yorkin 
are attendants to tho Calif, I-Iorman 
Groenborg and Donald .WUson his 
counsellors, arid Harold Minor tho 
jostor.
In tho chorus of liarem ladies, tho 
loveliest assemblage of graco and 
dusky bonuty over aeon in an Arabian 
garden, aro found Amy Glassford, 
Caroline Edmondson, Peg Maggio, 
Mllda Rinkonborgor, Aubrey Volp, 
' lOleanor Cumpboll, Bertha Schonkin, 
Betty Matter, and Elizabeth McFadden.rho role of tho band of bold, bad 
robbors contains tho names of Gorrlt 
Krabor, Alan Norn, Ellsworth Porrln. 
John Gumbort, Robort Aldordyco, Bon 
Welnblatt, Durbin and Mark Pinskor.
Thoso am tho playors, and will bo 
aeon by tho audience. The suocons 
of a production such as Tbo Talo 
of Two Magic Urns", depends howovor, quits as much on tho efforts of 
thoso loss In ovldonco on tho night of 
tho play, but to whoso skill and labor 
aro owed every boautlful offoct and 
(Continued on Pago Four)
: SCHEDULES FOR SUMMER *
> SCHOOL ARE AVAILABLE -I!* Anticipating tho desire of * 
! many students to arrange their > 
I* schedules now. for tho summer *J*
> school of 1925; mimeographed : 
I* copios showing the scheduled
J* hours, have been distributed to
> all departments concerned. !*
I* Dr. Ilnig, who has charge of
! tho night school and summer 
i* session arranged these soiled: ules. This information has been 
\* sent out at this time so that It *5 
will aid individual students,
{ planning to attend summer ?!* 
school, to arrange their schedules for the socoiul semester !*
> without conflict. v
$ From these copies the stu> dents, can find out if the subv jects which they are planning * 
to take during the extra session, 
will be given. Any additional 
5* information can be secured by * 
calling at tho office, 230-B Cen* tral Building. *:
SOPHS ENGAGE 
TED WEEMS TO 
PLAY FOR HOP
Most Popular Orchestra to 
Play in William Penn 
Ball Room March 6
TICKETS TO COST
ONLY THREE-FIFTY
SECOND SHILLING 
OUT THIS MONTH
New Pencil Sketches Needed 
by Art Editor For Third 
Issue
FEATURES STRESSED
CHAIRMAN NAMES 
STAG COMMITTEES
KILTIES TO PLAY AT
SCHENLEY THEATRE
REASONABLE RATES FOR
EXTENDED STUDENTS TRIPS
Anyone interested in student tours 
to Europe for next summer can se
cure information from the office of 
the Dean of Men. The total expense 
of these tours, lasting 31 days, is $290. 
The sailing being from New York on 
July 1, 1925.
Victory For Intellect Recorded, CrossWord Puzzle Fans to be Rewarded
In addition to the great social val
ue of enlarged vocabularies, Car
negies cross-word puzzlists will be 
incited to activity by the awarding of 
two Davis theater tickets to puzzlers, 
each week in the future.
The first person to present a cor
rect solution of the weekly puzzle at 
the Tartan office after 11:30 on the 
day of publication, will receive the 
ticket. All contestants must submit 
their work in person. If two or more 
opponents appear at the door simul
taneously, they must fight it out. 
Members of the Tartan staff are in
eligible. Anyone more interested In 
Tartan work than in cross-word puz
zles should get his name on the wait
ing list at once.
Carnegie may soon follow the lead 
of her contemporaries, Yale and Har
vard. Practice now, and have a head 
start when the call Is issued for var
sity cross-word puzzle material. And 
do not forget, the names of all win
ners will be published in the Tartan.
The wildest dreams of the Kiltie 
band are rapidly taking on a thor
oughly practical and assuring atti
tude. The band has signed a contract 
Owens, and his assistant Cerullis, 
plans for the big Easter trip are 
rounding into shape.
Two performances daily will be 
given at the Schepley, February 26, 
27 and 28, The program, as previ
ously announced, consists of several 
new numbers by the band as a whole, 
a specialty program by a jazz orches
tra organized by band members, sev
eral songs by Obie Newman, and a 
chalk talk by Bernard Maslon, an 
Arts plebe. This program is full of 
pep and variety, and should prove 
very attractive.
The Kilties are now planning a big 
eastern trip during spring vacation, 
under the auspices of the Eastern 
Carnegie clans. Business Manager 
Owens, and his assistant Ceruttis, 
were sent out by Manager Garber 
last Friday, to make final arrange
ments for tho trip. They will stop 
at Johnstown, Harrisburg, Lancaster, 
Philadelphia, Norristown, and New 
York.
If arrangements are satisfactory, 
fifty-five men will be taken on the
Selects Men Who Will Man
age Features of Science 
School Smoker
With the four class presidents 
lecting their outstanding Thespians 
and playwrights in an effort to pro
duce a scoring idea for the Science 
stag, Fred Rossini today announced 
the sub-committees for the affair.
Rossini was recently appointed to 
head this years annual smoker of the 
Engineering College, which is to be 
held Saturday evening, March 14, in 
the Carnegie Union.
J. M. OConnor was appointed treas
urer of the smoker, while W. Winning 
is in charge of the publicity and Paul 
Bowron is to arrange the program.
E. J. Cerutti, W. Winning, E. J. 
Benko and F. W. Swaile comprise the 
properties and Btage committee. Tick
ets will be distributed by J. M. OCon
nor, H. N. Smith, Paul Bowron and F. 
W. Swaile. H. N. Smith is responsible 
for the popularity contest and M. C. 
Bitner and L. E. Smith are to see to 
the refreshments and smokes.
The lighting, which has added dis
tinctiveness to all of Carnegie's enter
tainments in recent years, will be In 
charge of the Eta Kappa Nu, honorary 
Electorial Engineering fraternity. 
This society promises something new 
for the 1925 stag.
The event will be enlivened by the 
best skit each class can produce and 
by the faculty offering. Tho faculty 
failed to produce an act last year, but 
campus talk has it that they will make 
a strong bid tills year for the silver 
cup which is given for tho prize-win
ning stunt. Tho trophy, donated sev
eral years ago by the Y. M. C. A., was 
wron last year by tho Seniors. They 
presented a burlesque of tho DisciWESTERN STUDENTS TO HOLD 
MEETING AT 1:30 TOMORROW
Tho Association of Wostorn Studonts will hold an important buslnoss 
mooting on Wodnosday, Folmmry 4, 
at 1:30 ]). m. In tho Y. M. C. A. club 
rooms, Collogo of Industries. All stu
dents whoso homes uro west of Ohio 
are earnostly requested to attond.
It is dosired that evory ono interest
ed be prosent and ready to give his 
opinion in order that decisions may be 
the product of combined cogitation 
and conduce to the greatest good for 
the greatest number.
An effort will bo made to effect 
closer relationship among students 
from tlio West and plans will bo sug
gested for that purpose.
LUTHERAN CONVENTION 
ON FEBRUARY 6, 7 AND 8
trip in two special Pullman cars. This
trip will be a wonderful advertise-1 pline Committee, starring A1 Mlnment for Carnegie.
Trips are also planned to several 
towns in the Pittsburgh district. The 
band has been heartily received in 
all its trips to date, and is in great 
demand in this vicinity.
Band practice will be held this 
Thursday night in the Union. All 
who intend to play with the Kilties 
for the rest of this year should make 
a special effort to be on hand, and 
on time.
netti,
After Rossini announced the sub
committees, he said he BA going to 
start at once to convince those anx
ious to attend the smoker that the 
niceties required at the Prom and Arts 
ball will not be required at this event. 
He feels that if he oan impress this 
upon them, a little' of the sterner 
stuff will be broug it Into play. If 
It is, the chairman is sure the stag 
will be a masculine achievement.
The educational institutions of 
Pittsburgh arte to be the hosts of the 
Lutheran students of the Ohio valley 
region who will send representatives 
to the convention which is to be held 
here February 6, 7 and 
Headquarters of the convention aro 
to be established at the Lutheran 
Student House, Bayard and Dithridge 
streets. Here all of the meetings are 
to be held except the Sunday morning 
service which the Bethany Lutheran 
church of East Liberty is conducting 
for the collegians.
Representatives from nearly all of 
the colleges and universities in the 
region will be here. Mr. Kerns, the 
president of the local student organ
ization, and chairman of the conven 
tion states that lie expects about 
fifty out of town accredited delegates. 
A much larger number of local visi
tors are expected as all who are in
terested are invited to attond the 
meetings.
The program follows:
Friday, February 0:
MorningRegistration,
2:30 pm,
Additional Expense Does Not 
Cause Committee to In
crease Price
Tho socond issue of tho Shilling 
will make its appoaranco on tho cam
pus, February 9 and 10. The pro
ceeds of tho Shilling Brldgo which 
was hold In November, have given 
able 11 uncial assistanco to this pub
lication, and membors of tho staff, 
of which Jerry Perry is oditor-lnchlof, are aiming to mnko this Issue 
even more Intorostlng than any 
which havo procodod it.
Among the contributors for this Is
silo Is a number of students of the 
English Minor Dopar tmont who have 
on sovoral provlous occasions given 
ovldonco of the lltorary merit of Lholr 
writings. Stories hnvo boon contri
buted by Alleo Mooro and illnrgarof. 
Ecklmrdt, and a poem by Vina Ivahlo. 
In acordanco with tho season of the 
year, Robert Guilder has written a, 
Valentino play. Rosomary McCumbrldgo has contributed an ossay, Is 
It Grand Mindodnoss?
Tho cover design for this issuii Is 
tho work of Gladys York, a student 
of tho Department of Applied Art. 
Apropos of designs, If anyone lias 
Ideas for pencil sketches, tho results 
of libi efforts would bo vory much 
appreciated by Rosslyn Doyle, who 
Is Art Editor of tho Shilling. This 
Is an opportunity for the would-be ar
tist. to oxorclse his ability, and It 
will also tend to mnko the Shilling 
moro truly roprosontatlvo of Car* 
noglo. Although It Is published by 
womon studonts oxeluslvoly, tho con
tributions of all arc welcome..
At tho conclusion of the Junior 
Prom Friday night, it was aunouneed 
by Paul Medert., in charge of orches
tra arrangements for tho Soph Hop 
Committee, that an agreement had 
been reached with Ted Weems to 
havo Ills orchestra return to play for 
tho Soph Hop on March 6. Tho con
tract will probably be signed this 
week.
The William Penn ballroom has 
been engaged for tho dance. Pro* 
grama of attractive * nd durable de
sign will servo as favors.. Tho tick
ets will bo sold for $3.50.
The engagement of Weems Or
chestra makes the Soph Hop an as
sured success. Tho enthusiasm 
Which these musicians aroused among 
tho guests at tho Junior Prom was 
phenomenal. Tho opinion was almost, 
universal that the music provided 
there was tho best to which thoso 
prosont had ever danced. It is cer
tain that no moro popular cholco of 
an orchostra could luivo boon made 
by tho committee,
Carnoglo Is not the only school at, 
which Ted Weems Is tho host liked 
dlroctor. Friday night's prom was 
tho olghtoonth at which he - has ap
peared since January first. SKA ongagomonts Includod tho Michigan 
S'onlor Ball and the Junior Proms at 
Cornell and the University of IOMnsylvanla. This wok ho and Ills fullow-artlsts aro playing for tho .lunlor 
Proms at Syracuse and Colgate.
Tho nows that Weems would play 
at. tho Soph Hop came as a surprise 
to upperclassmen, who, although 
oagor to. hoar tho orchostra again, 
feared that tho expense of a return 
ongagomont would bo too groat to bo 
borne by a. loss expensive dance, Tho 
Hop Committee wont oven farther, 
howover, and hired the seventeenth, 
floor ol! tho William I'onn for tho oc
casion. They reason that thoro is no' 
profit In having a popular orchostra If 
ono cannot accommodate tho dancers.
In spite of the added expense of 
orchestra and hall, tho price of tick
ets will be hold at $8.60. It Is ex. 
pootod thal; enough buyers wll I be 
found at that figure to put the affair 
across financially,
REV. J. R. HART OF PENN
TO ADDRESS STUDENTS
Delta Tau Delta Lot
Bought By Natl Tube
The National Tube Company has 
finally succeeded In purchasing tho 
strip of land at 4800 Forbes street 
on which tho Delta Tau Delta house 
is situated, which it proposes to util
ize, together with the lot next to it, 
in building a research laboratory.
This lot, which was the property 
of tho Bureau of Mines, has been 
sold on such terms as shall protect 
the use of the government thereto as 
to light and other easements. EBTLA 
the laboratory will have to be built 
in accordance with these terms. It 
will be helpful to have this laboratory 
next door to the bureau of mines, so 
that they may work together. The 
establishment of another such laborOn Sunday, February 8, at -1:00 p. 
m., at tho Parish House of St. Potor's 
Episcopal Church, Forbes and Crart 
avenues, tho ltov, John R. Hart, Jr., 
hotter known as "Jack Hart, of tho 
University of Pennsylvania, will ad
dress a mass meeting of the studentu 
and faculty of Pitt and Carnoglo.
Mr. Hart is one of tho studont-pastors at Penn and Is ono of the best 
known and best liked men on tho 
campus.
Thoso who have attended tho Silver 
Bay conferences will remcmbor Mr. 
Hart, and will no doubt bo glad to 
avail themselves of this opportunity 
to hear him again. Tho mooting on 
February 8 is under the auspices of 
the Whitehead Club, and It is hoped 
that there will be a large turnout of 
all students. Dont forget the date!
Despite the irregularities in the 
schedule of tho swimming pool, the 
swimming team has been practicing 
faithfully there times per week. Tbo 
men like it so well that on Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday they stroll 
around to the gym from force of habit. 
In a meet at the P. A. A. last weekatory will also be of benefit to the 
City of Pittsburgh, but the TrI Delts | Follansbee and Ross were entered, 
and the Delta Tau's will soon find it I the former taking a fourth in the 50 
necessary to look for a new home. I yard free style.
Student Help of Carnegie Inn Hold 
Farewell Banquet in Faculty Room
On Thursday evening, January 29, 
the studenthelp of <$n.rnegie Tnn en
joyed a last supper In the upper 
chamber of the Inn; otherwise known 
as tho faculty room. For many of 
the students, this occasion marked 
tho end of their earnest endeavors 
and labors at the girls feeding centre.
The feed board was decorated with 
tulips and sweet peas; not with for| get-mc-nots as some of tho fellows 
| oxpected, Tho feed bags wore adOrganization moorNu,ltraI lllld gonorounly roplorifjjjjioa l>y
Ing. Address: Personal Relation
ship to God through Christ.
5:30 p.m.  Dinner at Student 
House.
7:30 p.m.Address: How this
personal Relationship Affects 
Life.
8:30 p. m.Entertainment. 
Saturday:
9:30 a. m,Address: How Life 
is affected. Discussion.
12:30Luncheon.
2:30 p. m.Discussion.
3:00 p. m.Sight-seeing tour.
6:30 p. m.Dinner at House. 
(Continued on Page Two.)
flvo co-eds who reprosonted the Wood' 
lawn dorms. When tbo chicken, 
fruit salads, ico cream and waitresses 
with, cigarettes and stogies woro cir
culated and through tho resulting 
smoko screen each member hold 
forth; anecdotes, snappy stories, and 
breezy tales kept tho crowd roaring.
At the close, however, tho gather
ing took on a moro serious aspect 
and voiced their sincere thanks and 
gratitude to Fred Sheldon, who did 
so much to, bring about and make 
successful the affair. To Miss Black
ford they also extend their hearty 
appreciation.
Above all, though, each and every 
student that was present could not 
help commenting on tho way the 
girls of the Woodlawn Dormitories 
willingly and heartily offered their 
help and co-operation. Tho spirit in 
which thoy so readily came forward 
to help was Indeed so spontaneous 
and sincere that tho fellows will over 
hold a lastlhg appreciation for It. 
Few co-od colleges can boast of tho 
fact that their girl studonts cvor 
turned and waited on tho male stu
dent help that worked In their din
ing room. To say that we, the malo 
help, appreciate this act, is but stat
ing simply, but nevertheless sincere
ly our heartfelt gratitude.
Thoso present were:
Alan Marshall, Kid Everson, Law
rence iSmlth, Richard Foresman,, Wal
ter Pearson, Wm. Faber, Bill Kunkel, Henry Chequer, John Bouerle, 
Harold Wagoner, Lawrence Rial, Rus
sell Bullinger, Sydney Smith, Loren 
Spurrier, Constantin Butier, Mark 
Seibert. Jack Waldron.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO
Q
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1925
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoflice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGH E. C. FRAZIICR
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson It. R. Sltzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING .........................................................................................Schenley 1)070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-.J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS.................................................................................................Schonley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, M. Holllnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, it. Hand,
C, J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella, M. Cohen, S. Weil. F. Ii. Grant, E. 
Itoss, H. L. Myers, L. V. Twohig, F. Finn, F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. Wingold, 
11. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Klnunol.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
T. CHRISTOFF .......................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernardl, B. Krlstof. .
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON........................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER .........................................................................................Schenley 9122
FERIFLDYGTOV CNWNM8:
D. MOSKOVITZ .....................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L, Bauerle, .T. P. 
Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. Perroton, G. II. Curl. B. Supowltz, L. Suchs, II. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Cribble.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All nows Rems must be In the s-adent 
post ofllce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OillceRoom 12, Industries Building. Ofllce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.
SNOW AND SENIORS
Last Thursday we hacl the heaviest snowfall,oi! the year. As wc 
looked out from a windowj we were struck again by the beautiful 
appearance oL; the outside world. All the dirt and rime was covered 
and everything looked new under the white mantel. But in a few 
days the grime and soot of the city changed the white to a dirty 
gray; and within a few days, the melting snow will again show up 
the dirty streets and muddy.walks of our fair city.
Our view at the window had much, in common with the outlook 
of the graduating Senior. When he receives his diploma', the world 
seems wonderful, an unbroken expanse, awaiting liis pleasure: to 
make his paths where he wills, to whatever object ho desires. But 
upon getting out, he sees that everything is not so fair as it seems 
from the distance. There arc already many footsteps; the grime and 
soot of hard work have shaded the white into gray. And after a 
while the white covering of delusion melts away and he sees the dirt, 
and mucl of common everyday drudgery showing through.
It hurts, somewhere down in us, to see the snow melt away, dis
closing unclean streets beneath; but it is a still harder blow to realize, 
upon graduation that the world is not merely a golden opportunity, 
waiting for the enterprising graduato to take advantage of it.
This fact has been pounded into the heads ol! Seniors by wise 
professors since the beginning ol schools, but it never seems, to take 
elfeet. Bach man thinks that he will be the exception to the rule. 
H; is ego, ol course, which makes them think so, and is, in a.measure, 
excusable; but this does jiotmako the fact that lie will not succeed at 
once any easier to bear. Our college work provides no short cut to 
wealth, or success in any other sense of the word, They have to use 
what they learn and augment it by hard work to get any place-; and 
even then, most of the Seniors will never be famous. .Its a. serious 
and rather pathetic, fact, but it must bo faced.
FINANCE
While on the subject ol! college training, we may ask: What 
have you got from yours? Books have boon written on the subject ; 
wo would presume to try to discuss it here, The one thing which 
every student should talce from this school, fully developed and 
ready for use, is an adoquato un.dersluindiug of his own problems of 
linnuoo, and a. general pinn o.l! administrating them.
At (arnegio, most students either pay I heir own way, or borrow 
money to do so. Dither ease requires I lie keeping of adequate rec
ords. No one who is paying his way with his own money will be 
careless about where it is going, especially when lie has no income. 
Certainly a man will not spend lavishly of money which he expects 
some day to pay back.
Most of us keep a balance in our check books, il! we are fortunate 
enough to have use for one. The more intelligent group of students 
keeps other detailed records of where thoijj money goes; how much 
goes for necessary expenses, and how much goes for entertainment, 
luxuries, and other non-essentials. Tills is one habit which will prove 
of inestimable value all through life. A man who knows what lie 
has is worth two men who think they know. Millions of dollars have 
gone to one man instead of another because the first man KNEW 
how much he had and could afford to invest, while the other Avnsnt j 
sure, and didnt daro take a chance.
Another side to the question is this. Carnegie is a technical 
school, and as such, concerned mainly with production in some form 
01* another. The basis for all production is capital. We meet cosiseosts-costs-wherever we turn. This constant association of cost ideas 
is bound to have some reaction upon the minds of the students. We 
believe it has. Our graduates have shown this in their choices of 
positions and the results they have accomplished.
Of course, personal finances are a minor factor in a way, but 
the regard for financial matters which a student gets at Carnegie is 
one definite thing which lie can credit to his college education with 
the knowledge that it is a positive asset, complete in itself, and ready 
for application.
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe L________________________________________4
1. BENITO MUSSOLINI.
2. CONDITIONS IN AU8TRIA.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY a
Registration...................0 00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M., Langley Laboratory
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY -l
Registration...................9:00 A. M. to 4:00 .P. M., Langley Laboratory
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 7 
SECOND SEMESTER BEGINS.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY (i
Arts Ball..........................................................I) s0O I*. M., College of Fine Arts
Basket Ball Ilebes vs. California Normal . .. .7 :()() I*. M Cymnasium
Grove City....................................8 :iiO l\ M., Gymnasium
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7
Post Ball Dance...................................9:00 l\ IM.. College of Fine Arts
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 30
General Assembly..........................:...................II :40 A. M., Music Hall
Basket Ball....PIeb.es vs. Indiana Normal...........7 :00 P. M., Gymnasium
Varsity vs. Geneva.......................8:30 P. M., Gymnasium
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12
Chapel.....................................................................12:50, Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13
Basket-BallPitt (two games).........................7:00 P. M., Gymnasium
Anne Pedersdotter.....................................S:30 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY .14 
Scalp and Blade Dance.................................................S :30 P. M., Union
The Job of the newspapers and 
magazine writers is to give as true 
and as adequate a picture of condi
tions as they exist as can possibly be 
done wltli words. WJtli the foreign 
situations this becomes much more 
difficult because of our own precon
ceptions and the other fact that the 
few reporters can't cover the country 
as minutely as in the states, so that 
only scraps of news come to usa bit 
here and there, leaving the picture 
hazy. Certain special articles have 
been, appearing of late on general 
conditions and have been so good 
that I want to give them to you here 
because the point of view has been 
the country as a whole and not just 
bits of news.
Benito Mussolini, the supreme dic
tator of Italy, has to all outsiders re
mained a mystery, He has been 
calletrbpth a god and a devil, has ad
miring friends and the bitterest ene
mies, but remains still the leader. He 
came In shortly after the Avar when 
Industrial and economic conditions 
were very bad, when only a stern 
liand could saVe the day and he 
wrought order out of chaos.
The situation now.is something us 
follows: He represents a party of
1,000,000 voters, about 30 percent of 
the wholethe rest being split up in 
eight different parties, wherein lie3 
some of his strength. Then again 
the national militia of 100,000 men, 
the body-guard of the king is Mus
solinis own and would all die for 
their chief. He lias inaugurated tin) 
strictest censorship of the press, so 
that all features of publicity are for 
the faclsti and against the opposition, 
which fact Spoils their chances in a 
general election. Ills motto seems to 
be, If you want to see whos boss 
here, just start something.
Gradually he is losing strength and 
were he to hold a general election it 
would go against him. I-Iow long he 
can hold on is a Question. One may 
held a cover on a seething pot just so 
long and its a case in time of the 
cover blowing off, if the heat is con
tinued. Mussolini must go or 
change his tactics.
The break-up of Austria-Hungary 
put both countries in a bad way econ
omically and financially. To put 
Austria on her feet a loan in allied 
countries, guaranteed and super
vised by the League of Nations. To 
all intents and purposes the country 
was progressing and getting back to 
normalcy but a new cause for alarm 
has arisen which may lead to serious 
conclusions.
There are three political parties in 
the country, the Chrlstlan-Soclallsts, 
the Pan-Germanists and the Social 
Democrats, the government being a 
coalition of the first two, no party 
having a majority. The danger in the 
the situation lies in the fact that 
Vienna Is one ol! the seven national 
provinces, having financial autonomy, 
a population of two million oiil; of the 
countries seven, sixty percent of the 
entire taxable wealth and Is In the 
hands of the Social Democrats, who 
have pursued almost a pure Marxian 
Socialism. They havo taxed almost, 
everything that could be considered 
proletarian to the limit and having 
llmmclal autonomy the country is 
helpless, For example there Is a tax 
of no percent on all hotel room rents, 
a 10 percent theater tax which has 
closed many theaters, and an almost 
prohibitive automobile tax which has 
driven half the cars from the streets,, 
Whllo this taxing has made the city 
prosperous, tho municipality Is re
ported with having a cash balance ol! 
from fifteen to twenty million dollars. 
It has brought business to a standstill 
and effected tho entire nation.
The Socialists have fought tlje 
league* at every turn and made all 
payments very hard which was the 
main reason for S'eipols resignation, 
a man they couldnt afford to lose. 
Capital has become very scarce, the 
Interest rates ranging from fifteen to 
eighteen percent Which again stifles 
Industry. All these situations are 
bringing about a state of mind which 
favors an alignment with Germany as 
the only possible solution in fact a 
vote by Parliament now would be in 
favor of such a move, to be opposed 
of course by the allies, France in par
ticular.
Two important consequences can 
be seen arising out, of this situation. 
The stoppage of industry which 
means a lessening of income for the 
country and the difficulty of balanc
ing the budget and the inevitable 
drift toward a union jvitli Germany, 
which would have disastrous effects 
on the European alignment. It would 
no doubt be another step toward a 
general embroilment.
Men Entering at Mid-Terms, or Changing
To Degree Courses, May Enroll in R. O. T. C.
1 POST-REFORMATION
j PLAY TO BE GIVEN 
i --------
Students who enter Carnegie at 
mid-term with the . intention of 
completing their courses in 3% 
years, and students who entered 
last September and are now trans
ferring from non-degree to regular 
courses, may be admitted to the 
It. O. T. C. by registering for it.
Such students should present 
themselves at Room 22iJ Industries 
in order to have a Service Record 
made out. Any new student who
has had previous military training 
at other schools or colleges may re
ceive credit for the same upon ap
plication to the Military Depart
ment.
Men entering under these condi
tions who intend to complete the 
R. O. T. C. course in 3Vfc years re
ceive the same course of training 
as students admitted one semester 
earlier. The main difference is 
that students entering in February 
will not receive payment for two
J years, or until one semester after 
the other students begin to receive 
commutation of rations.
A number of applications have 
been made for admission to the R. 
O. T. C. by students who failed to 
enroll last September. Under cer
tain conditions some of these stu
dents are admissible to Military 
Training. All who failed to enroll 
when they entered the institution 
are urged to see Captain Sherrill at 
229 Industries.
! Drama Dept, to Present Anne 
Pedersdotter the Week 
of February 13
Microphotographie Studies 
Of Steels Now on Exhibition
' DR. JAMES ADVISOR FOR 
INVENTIONS EXHIBITION
DR. W. R. BOWIE TO 
DELIVER SERMON
Baccalaureate Address to be! 
Given by New York 
Minister
j Show Structure of Metal With 
Great ClarityRemarkable 
Results Obtained Through 
Work in Western Electric 
Labs
INSPIRING SPEAKER
Rev. Walter Russell Bowie, D.D., 
rector of the Grace church of New 
York city, has accepted Dr. Bakers 
invitation to preach the Baccalaureate 
to this year's graduates on the sev
enth of June;
Rev. Bowie was born in Richmond, 
where lie received his preparatory 
education. He graduated from Har
vard, where he was a member of the 
national honorary fraternity, Phi Beta 
Kappa.
Rev. Bowie has been pastor of sev
eral churches in Virginia, among 
which is the St. Pauls church of 
Richmond. He w-as a member of the 
Compiission 011 the World Conference 
011 Faith and Order, and also a mem
ber of the Comlnission on Social Ser
vice. During the World War he serv
ed as chaplain of the Base Hospital.
In 1923 he became rector of the 
Grace church of New York, and he 
has held that position ever since.
In the literary world he is the au
thor of numerous theological works 
among which are The Childrens 
Year,-' "The Master of the Hill, 
"Sunny Windows,' "The Road of the 
Star," and' "The Armor of Youth." 
He is also editor ol! the theological 
periodical, "The Southern Cluirchmun."
Rev. Bowie is a personal friend ol 
Dr. Bakers, who is aware of his un
usual ability as a forceful and inter
esting speaker. No doubt lie will 
have an Inspiring message to deliver 
to our graduates, which will help 
them surmount many of the obstacles1 
which they will inevitably meet in 
their various walks of life.
LUTHERAN CONVENTION ON
FEBRUARY 6, 7, AND 8
(Continued From Page One.)
7 : -If p. 111. - Address at House 
followed by Discussion.
Sunday Morning:
9:00~Question Box.
1.1:00 - Service, at Bethany
church, Fast Liberty,
The Lutheran Student Club, of 
Pittsburgh, extends an invitation to 
all Interested.
George aez: Our Idea of extrava
gance would be 10 of for a freshman a 
penny for his thoughts.
Some remarkable microphotographic 
studies of steel are now' on display 
in the small exhibition room of the 
Arts Building. These specimens rep
resent the very finest work that has 
ever been done in high power metal
lography. They were> brought to Car
negie through the courtesy of Fran
cis F. Lucas, research engineer for 
the Western Electric Company.
Mr. Lucas spent approximately ten 
years in the preparation of these 
photos, about one hundred in number. 
They are the result of exacting re
search to determine the nature of the 
changes that take place in the hard
ening of steel. They have established 
with certainty the connecting links 
between steels at ordinary and at 
high temperatures.
As a reward for his work, Mr. Lucas 
was awarded the Howe gold medal, an 
annual prize given by the American 
Society for Steel Testing. The paper 
prepared by' Mr. Lucas in connection 
with the photographs has precipitated 
a world-wide argument in metallur
gical circles, and has resulted in the 
solution of many problems that puz
zled metallurgists for years.
The first series, containing seventyfive photos, was made from a bar of 
steel heated to one thousand degrees 
centigrade at one end, while the other 
was maintained at room temperature, 
the whole quickly quenched, or cooled, 
in brine solution. Photographs were 
taken at a magnification of thirty-nine 
hundred and fifty diameters progres
sively along the bar, so that the struc
ture and crystalline form is show'll 
with remarkable clarity. Each plate 
of approximately ten inches in length 
represents but tw'enty-llve ten thou
sandths of an inch of the specimen. 
The entire series, sixty-five feet long, 
represent but one hundred and eightyseven thousandths of an inch. Crys
tals as small as one hundred thou
sandths of an Inch in length shown 
distinctly 011 the prints. /
Another set show's tho superiority 
of direct magnification over enlarge
ments made from smaller microphotograplis of the same nature. Much de
tail is lost in enlarging.
A group of photos made at the lab
oratories of the American Telephone 
and Telegraph Company, and at the 
Bell Telephone Company, show spe
cial crystalline formations such as 
dendrites or "fir trees, and needles.. 
These were snapped at magnification 
of fifty-two hundred times, and show 
needles as small as six one millionths 
of an inch In diameter.
j Dr. Joseph I-I. James, professor of 
chemistry and head of chemical enj gineering has accepted an invitation 
I from the American Institute of the 
City of New York to serve as a mem
ber of the Advisory Board in connec1 tion with the Exposition of Inventions 
to be held in the Engineering So
cieties Building in New York in April.
Other members of the board will 
include Professor Charles Edward 
Lucke, Dr. Leo Hendrick Baskeland. 
! Hudson Maxim. Lee' Deforest, Lewis 
Nixon, and H. H. Westinghouse. 
j The American Institute, as the first 
j step in its process of re-organization, 
plans to hold an Exposition of lnvenj tion from April 27, to May 2, for the 
purpose of displaying and explaining 
current inventions to the public, and 
of recognizing and rewarding inven
tive genius.
As a member of the advisory board, 
Dr. James has been asked to assist 
in establishing basis for making 
awards at the Exposition, and in de
ciding other matters that may arise 
affecting the purpose of the Exposi
tion of interpreting current inventive 
effort to the public.
amssirPtSC aHEN CLPiYi
ALVIN
Have you .heard and seen "RoseMarie? If 'not you had better get 
your tickets 110w, for there will be a 
rush tomorrow evening, like there 
was last night. It is the worlds best, 
prettiest and sweetest musical com
edy. You certainly have heard Inj 
dian Love Call and "Rose-Marie, 
which are the big hits of the show, j 
and you know that Friml can write, so 
you better go.
w'ith Lillian Foster. There is 110 
love story like this play, and there 
is 110 play like this story. From start 
to finish it grips the audience, and the 
acting is excelled by none that the 
city has ever seen in a similar produc
tion.
Ancient Wigs Well Made
As far back as the time of Ramoses 
II. women were not content with the 
crowning glory nature supplied. One 
of Americas leading wlgmakers tells 
of examining a wig taken from the 
sarcophagus of an! Egyptian mummy. 
That wig was so womlrously wrought 
that one must conclude the art was 
highly developedIn tho civilization of 
the ancients,
The Popes Chair
The most, expensive chair In exist
ence belongs to the pope. It Is .quite 
modern, and was made to the order of 
an American banker. It Is of solid 
silver, beautifully chased, weighs near
ly half a ton, and is said to have cost 
something like $00.000.
DAVIS
The Club Womens Festival, is the 
feature stunt this week, and it will be j 
a toss whether the Siamese Royal En-1 
tertainers are better or not. Both are j 
good acts. These Siamese have just 
come to this country to present their 
old ritual, which has never been done 
before outside of Siam.
All the horrors of home will be pre
sented by William Morris and his fam
ily. Ega Buck and Sam White from 
the Music Box Revue will do special
ties in song and dance numbers.
Dollie and Billie will do their sister 
sty if. James F. Donlin and Myrtle 
Glass will present "The Four Sea
sons." Archie and Gortie Falls will 
do ropo walking. Jack Allyn and 
Alice Tyrrell will dance.
Inasmuch  as this is a column for 
theaters. Avesuggest that you see 
"No. No, !Nannette, if you havent 
done so, at the Nixon. The music is 
great, the girls are pretty and the 
story is sw'eet. Two musical shows 
such as the two in town this week 
have seldom been heard in Pittsburgh 
simultaneously.
SCHENLEY
GRAND
Prison Razed by Mob
The Bastile, celebrated state prison 
In Paris, was begun in 1870, and addi
tions were made at later periods. On 
July 1-1,17S9, it was taken by the revo J 
lutionists. By May 21, 1791, It wa.- j 
completely demolished.
"How big Is my baby? So-o-o Big!"
Thus wo hear, or rather see Col
leen More carross her child In Edna 
Forbers novel, ploturod at tho Grand 
this week. "So Big is a great pic
ture, and it is one of those which* 
will make screen history. Wallace 
Beery will bo seen in characterization 
never before equaled.
Harpland Phantasies, a group of 
harpists, beautiful girls, eight of them, 
will be the feature number. Melva 
Moore, the famous coloratura contral
to, will be heard with this ensemble. 
It. may be added that this is a novel 
idea.
SHUBERT-PITT
A. H. Wood - presents Conscience
The Ritz Quartet, an extraordinai-y 
musical attraction, noted for perfect 
harmony and excellent singing voices, 
have been selected by Mr. Harry Da
vis as the added novelty presentation 
which will be sliowm at the Schenley 
during the entire week.
A1 Christies great laughing feature, 
"Reckless Romance, with a spark
ling cast, including T. Roy Barnes, 
Harry Meyers. Tally Marshall, Jack 
Duffy, Wanda Hawley and Sylvia 
Breamer, will be the photoplay attrac
tion 011 Monday, Tuesday and Wednes
day. It. is a riotously funny story of 
a pair of love-sick newiyweds, a pair 
of love-sick lovers, a rich grandpa 
with bunions, a well-meaning uncle 
and aa irate father. A11 Aesops Fa
ble, Sportllglit film and tho latest 
News release will also be shown.
House Peters in "The Tornado, a 
stupendous melodrama laid in the in
spiring scenics of the great outdoors, 
showing wind and rain and a forest of 
heavy logs, tornado driven, damming 
the flood into a hideous menace above 
a lockless town and one brave man 
riding the logs to save the town at 
the risk of his life, is the Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday feature photo
play. Felix, the funny cat. will be 
shown in a new cartoon comedy. A 
News and Review will also be pre
sented.
CHAMBER MUSIC
A young student lodging in Edin
burgh bought a violin and started to 
play upon it. His landlady, hearing 
the unusual sounds, appeared at the 
bottom of the stairs, and shouted: 
Mr. McLaclilan, what are ye do
in?
"Oh, said the student, Im trying 
a new violin I've just bought! 
"Great guidness! said the woman, 
"I thought ye wis shiftin the bed.
Hobbs: "Whats the matter? You
look sour.
Green: "Why shouldnt I? I wrote 
a column article 011 fresh milk and 
the editor condensed it.
An extremely different and mysti
fying play named Anne Peders
dotter is to be presented by the 
Drama department, the week begin
ning February 13. There will prob
ably be a matinee given during that 
week although it has not been offic
ially announced.
The writer was permitted within 
the closed circle of rehearsal and was 
really astounded by the tense, grip
ping scenes of witcli-craft and re
ligious fanaticism that were marvel
ously executed by the whole cast.
The plot of the play is laid in 
Sweden, just after the Reformation 
when the entire world was in a strug
gle against the new religious move
ments and beliefs. People soon ac
quired the radical state of mind and 
were continually upsetting normal 
and sane conditions.
The leading characters, Marian Bee
son, Ben Weinblat, Emerson Hall, 
and Clarice Schellliase certainly read 
through the line^ and exemplify radi
cal, religious fanaticism and witch
craft of the 16th century.
Four, acts are included in the play, 
each one building up like a pyramid 
to the last, -which is the most tense 
and gripping scene. The stage set
ting is unusual. Incense, bells, music, 
and the interior of a cathedral are 
to play a prominent part. Perhaps 
the most humorous, exiciting moment 
is the mob scene in the first act w'hen 
the freshmen class charges over the 
garden wall.
Much credit should be given to Mr. 
Osborne who is directing the play and 
to Miss Mable Eichler, who is stage 
manager.
SERIES OF LECTURES ON
CHEMICAL ENG. PLANNED
Cousin Hiram: Is that a new hall 
clock over there?
Wife of deceased: Sli-li. Thats
poor old John. I knew the room 
would be crowded so turned the 
coffin 011 end.
The display also contains some pen 
sketches showing the features of the 
structure of steel. All these studies 
have furnished information of a much 
more definite nature than similar re
search with X-Ray photographs.
Dr. Ivrivabok of the Metallurgical 
Research Bureau, office in room 7, 
Science Building, will gladly accom
pany anyone who desires a full explan
ation of the preparation and signifi
cance of the display.
The Department of Chemical Engi
neering is planning a course of lec
tures on topics of interest to chemists 
and engineers, as well as to the stu
dents in the department.
A similar course of lectures last 
year aroused considerable interest 
and enthusiasm. Physicists from 
lany of the leading engineering engi
neering schools of the country were 
invited to address the students and 
interested professionals on various 
phases of chemical engineering. To 
insure a .varied program, the subject 
was left) somewhat to the discretion 
of the lecturer.
The lectures this year will be held 
in Science building, under the aus
pices of the department of Chemical 
Engineering.
A Nautical Condition.
"No, I dont care for that terrier,,c 
said a young lady in a dog fanciers 
shop. His legs are too short.
You couldn't have 'em any longer, 
miss; they reach right down to the 
ground! said the dog fancier.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, il A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
^!IHii0IEII101Ui!IllI!llII!IIII[|||i:!!!l!l!ll!l!Hillll!llll||Iiilll!!i[!l!IHllllIilllli|l!lilll![lii![|||llllIIliDlUIIIUlllUQllllIUIIEIHinilllIQllHllIlllllllIiIllIillllIIUIliIllSCHENLEY
25c npTTTG' Y nnrr'TD 25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
Direction Enterprises Thea-ters Co., HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY ANDTHURSDAY, FRIDAY AND
WEDNESDAYSATURDAY
A1 Christies Great Laughing 
FeatureHouse Peters
------in------i\CLx\iCoo
RomanceTORNADO
with a sparkling cast including 
Wanda Hawley, T. Roy Barnes, 
Harry Meyers, Tully Marshall, 
Sylvia Breamer and Jack Duffy.
A stupendous drama laid in the 
inspiring scenics of the Great 
Outdoors. Based 011 Lincoln J. 
Carters Famous Stage Thriller. 
Directed by King Baggot.
Sportlight Film  Aesops Fable 
Latest News.
Felix the Cat Comedy  Latest 
News and Review.
ALL WEEK-EXTRAORDINARY ATTRACTION-ALL WEEK
The Ritz Quartet
Noted for Perfect Harmony and Excellent Singing Voices. 
(Formerly with "Tangerine and other musical comedy successes.)

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
- PLAID ATHLETICS -
i WHOS WHO
i In Basketball
RICHARD H. CUTTING, 
Manager
Without the services of a good 
 manager, no team can really have a 
successful season. Dick Cutting is 
supplying the goods in tne capacity 
of varsity basketball manager this 
year. He not only arranged an ex
cellent schedule for the varsity bas
ket tossers this season, but he is 
daily attending to the heeds of the 
entire squad. Dick is a hustling, ac
tive sort of fellow, and takes espec
ial pains to see that everything is 
running along smoothly.
Manager Cutting halls from Cleve
land, Ohio, having graduated from 
East Tech High School of that city 
in 1920. He entered Carnegie in the 
fall of that year, but did not return 
the following year. He came back in 
1922 and has been quite active on the 
campus ever since. Besides manag
ing the basketball team, Dick is ac
tive in class and school affairs. He 
is a member of Scarab, Druids, and 
Delta Upsilon. Cuting is a junior in 
the School of Architecture.
JOHN F. HARRIS
Small in stature but with plenty 
of fight and basketball ability, Jackie' 
maintains his position on the squad 
as substitute forward. Pie played on 
the Coshocton, Ohio, High School 
basketball team for two years, and 
also earned his letter there two years 
in succession in football. He has 
been on the freshman and varsity 
basketball squads since coming to 
Carnegie three years ago. Jackie is 
a fast, shifty and wiry, little fellow, 
and despite his lack of size will con
tinue to make a strong bid for a 
regular berth on the team as he gains 
more and more experience.
Harris is a junior in Metallurgical 
Engineering in Science School. He is 
extremely active on the campus, be
ing a member of the Junior Prom 
Committee and Vice-President of the 
Science Senate. He is also a first 
assistant baseball manager, and will 
play an important part in taking care 
of a first class baseball team in the 
spring. Harris is a member of Castle, 
Delta Skull and the Theta Xi Franity.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUfTS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Compliments
of
iTOR mAA
LUXEMEflE OS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The FLY-FRONT COAT
I3ROY0 shouldered, easy 
hangingtheir conservatism 
proclaims their smartness.
Cut in lightweight and winter 
weight woolens in patterns 
approved by college men.
3450 am sir50
NAT LUXENBERG P 3:.U9 
Xo1 3ROY0HY,2 W5H OR*
(f NEXT SHOWING AT )
i WILLIAM PENN HOTEL {
March 6th and 7th ^
Our style memo, book sent free on request
INTER-SCHOLASTIC 
MEET PLANS READYOn the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
Manager E. C. Frazier Work
ing on Annual Track Meet 
For High Schools
Preparations have begun on the 
Ninth Annual Interscliolastic Track 
and Field Meet to be held at Car
negie Tech Field, May 9, 1925. The 
weather which is prevalent through
out the Pittsburgh district at tlie pre
sent time does not look promising 
for track meets or any other outdoor 
sport, with the possible exception of 
sledding. However, invitations noti
fying the various high schools of this 
meet, must be sent out early so that 
as many as possible may be able to 
arrange their schedules to include 
this meet.
As was the policy last year, this 
meet will be restricted exclusively to 
high schools. Prep schools will not 
be entered. This places the meet on 
a more equal and fairer basis, than 
when prep schools were eligible for 
it. Prep school men are generally of 
the caliber of-freshmen and sopho
mores in college. They have gained 
experience in high school, and added 
to this they have profited by higher 
coaching afforded by prep schools. 
As will be remembered two years ago 
there was nothing to tlie meet but 
two or three of the large prep schools 
in the state.
Approximately four hundred high 
schools in Pennsylvania and Ohio will 
receive invitations to compete in Car
negies Annual Interscliolastic Track 
and Field Meet. From this number 
Manager E. C. Frazier is expecting a 
goodly number of schools to face the 
starters gun on May 9.
E. C. Frazier is manager of this 
years interscliolastic track meet and 
J. B. Whitman is first assistant. They 
are, undoubtedly, tAvo able men for 
the positions, and so must they be 
for a huge job confronts them in mak
ing this meet a success, and making 
a favorable impression of Carnegie 
Tech on the high schools upon whom 
we depend for our future students.
TO WHICH CLASS DO YOU BELONG?
At Carnegie, as at every school in the country, there are many different 
types of students. This column, however, is interested mainly in the athletic 
student, so we are going to discuss briefly the scholastic and athletic status 
of the students who are prominent in athletics here.
At the time of going to press we have not yet learned how many of the 
athletes survived the first semester examinations, consequently this has not 
prejudiced us in any direction.
We have men at Carnegie who are bright but will not apply themselves 
enough to pass their subjects successfully, and we have the other extreme in 
the case where the student is not exceptionally bright but tries very hard 
and still cannot pass some of the courses. There are other typesmen who 
study little and still pass; men who study much and pass; but the first two 
types seem to be tlie ones that give the faculty and the athletic officials the 
most trouble.
It was pointed out in this column early last autumn that Carnegie was 
primarily a scholastic institution, and that an athlete first had to meet eligi
bility requirements before he would be allowed to represent any varsity or 
freshman team in inter-collegiate competition. The rules laid down by those 
in charge are somewhat strict, but it is our opinion that if tlie student ap
plies himself conscientiously he will be given every possible consideration 
should he fall short in any one subject.
Recently we interviewed several instructors regarding the chances of 
some of the athletes being eligible at the end of**tlie first semester. We learned 
that a few of the boys who are well-known in the athletic life at our institu
tion have been consistently cutting classes, have failed to do justice to tliemres or the instructors, with the result that there was nothing to do but 
give out grades of Fs and Rs.
One member of the faculty who is very much interested in Tartan ath
letics lamented the fact that we have so few athletes in school today that 
are the type of students who entered, several years ago, men like Brumbaugh, 
Sprinkle, Godden, Comfort, Robertson, Zelt and others.
The sooner the men who do not try to get their studies wake up and 
apply themselves, the better off they will be and the more the school will 
profit. If these men do not intend to do their share they can be of no value 
to Carnegie in any way. It does not matter how much athletic ability a man 
has, he can do no good with it if he is ineligible.
MANY IMPORTANT 
GAMES THIS WEEK
Fraternity and Dorm Teams 
Ready For Important 
Tilts For Flag
TENNIS SCHEDULE OF 14 
GAMES WILL BE DIFFICULT ONE
Goetz of the Iron Hand
Goetz von Berliehingeti, one of the 
ieaders of the peasants, In 1525. lost 
his right hand in battle and it was 
replaced by an iron hand. Whence 
he was called "Goetz of the Iron 
Hand."
THE GROVE CITY TILT
Coach Lubics rejuvenated proteges will open the home basket ball sea
son on Friday evening by tackling one of their biggest lloor rivals, Grove 
City College. The Freshmen will also be seen in action for tho first time 
here this year when they pair off with California Normal in a preliminary 
engagement at 7:00 p. 111. This game was originally scheduled for tho fol
lowing day at California, but was moved up in order to give the home fans 
a double treat for the opening night.
Grove City always has one of the best floor teams in the Tri-State dis
trict, and in recent years have usually held a big lead for the'championship 
over every one of their rivals. Their recent decisive defeat of the Panther in 
Trees Gym stamps the Grovers of this year as a real aggregation, and there 
should be plenty of excitement when they stack up against tho Tartans. 
Skibo followers have not yet forgotten the hectic battles between these two 
teams in the past three years.
It will be a fracas worth while seeing.
Too Much for It
A Scotsman was found dead in front 
of a 1-cent punching machine. The 
coroner found that death had been 
caused by overexertion. Investigation 
disclosed a sign-reading: Your penny 
returned If you hit hard enough. 
A.merieun Legion Weekly.
Oh, yoii Girlies, come in and 
get a Beautiful Marcel Wave for 
only 50c. Quick service.
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
COLLEGIATE BARBER SHOP 
MRS. HAZE, Operator
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
| evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
I Saturday eveningsPrivate lessons 
I by appointment.
! This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
European Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Days
$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Tours Division 
1XO East 42nd Street New York
"jascas
When You Face the 
Business World
When your school life is over and 
you face the business world, you 
will appreciate the bank connec
tions that you form today. The ex
perience in financial matters which 
a bank account affords, v/ill 
strengthen your confidence and 
make more likely your chances of 
success.
We invite your consideration of the 
Mellon National Bank. Regardless 
of the size of your account you will 
find here a genuine spirit of serv
ice in the conduct of your financial 
affairs.
Capital and Surplus $13,500,000.00
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbug-^h, Pa.
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
STUDENT TICKETS
We have several times warned the students that il is very unwise for 
them to give away their student tickets to friends, even ill the .students 
themselves cannot he present to see the game. Graduate Manager Buddy 
Overend is planning a system whereby he will be able to check up on these 
tickets, and he will cancel the books of those students who do not play 
fair with him.
The students get more than value received for the mount they pay to 
the Athletic Association for the student books. In fact, the books are issued 
as a special favor to tlie students, and the student, who allows any other 
person to use the book is doing an unfair thing. He is not only subtracting 
from the receipts which go to pay the expenses of the association, but ho is 
sending outsiders to the games who are not imbued with Carnegie Tech 
spirit, persons who cannot bo expected to lend the moral support to tho 
tqam by their cheering such as the students themselves can.
USE THE TICKETS YOURSELVES.
The tennis and rifle team schedules published in this issue are very at
tractive. While the student body in general knows little about tho rifle 
matches, because of the nature in which they are run off, it; is vory interest
ing to read of the results. Tennis always' has boon a popular spring sport, 
and the caliber of the teams to he met during May presages some interesting 
contests.
Oli, boy, we didn't know there were so many sheiks on our teams until we 
saw some of them strut their stuff all dressed up at tho Junior Prom Fri
day. We did not get to see thom-all, but Yoder, Kristof, Beodo, Newman, 
Manby, Matter, Hable, Harris, Bastian, Dykoman, Meforl, Bright and Bas
sett we did see.
Famous Carnegie Proms:
---------inent football playors.
---------issory notes.
Co-ed's ---------ptness.
Joe Colleges---------ise.
Junior
DtEsYtmsN -mtYIsLtN
Acacia630 Clyde Street ............................................................I-Iiland 9380
Alpha Tau Omega254 Bellefleld Street..............................Schenley 0102
Beta Sigma Rho213G Wightman Street...................................Hazel 9310
Beta Theta Pi5549 Forbes Street...............................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rho1408 Wightman Street......................................Hazel 91?)4
Delta Mu1G55 Shady Avenue.......................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta356 North Craig Street.................................I-Iilaud 7904
Delta Tau Delta4922 Forbes Street.....................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon4822 Baum Boulevard....................................Schenley 9196
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins Avenue....................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon4732 Center Avenue.........................................I-Iiland 9299
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde Street..................................................I-Iiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson.............................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard...........................Schenley 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbes Street............................Schenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi4929 Forbes Street................................Schenley 9122
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Street...............................................Schenley 0659
Theta Xi5017 Forbes Street.................................................Schenley 9143
"Woodlawn Club5814 Forbes Street..................i.....................Hazel 9422
Interfraternity Basketball League 
STANDINGS
Woodlawn ..........
Beta Sigma Rho
Kappa Epsilon ..........
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Sigma Nu ..................
McGill ....................
Scohell ..................
Delta Phi Delta ..
Delta Chi Rho-----
Iota, Sigma Delta 
Welch ....................
Won.Lost.Pctg.
101.000
101.000
101.000
101.000
01.000
. 01.000
01.000
01.000
Won.Lost.Pctg.
. 101,000
. 101.000
. 101.000
. 101.000
. 01000
01.000
. 01.000
1.000
Won.Lost.Pctg.
01.000
01.000
01.000
01.000
. 01.000
. 01.000
1.000
1.000
An interesting card is to he offered 
this week in the Intorfraternity-Dorrnitory League.- The usual four 
games will be played Tuesday, Wed
nesday and Thursday and those should 
have an important bearing on final 
standings, as in each leaguo two of 
the four winners meet each other.
Those teams which can still boast 
a clean slate at the end of the week 
must rightly be considered as serious 
contenders for the title, because it. 
will take good basket ball and con
sistent basket ball to remain unde
feated. Any fluke wins last week will 
more than likely be offset this time, 
and, similarly, previous had fortune 
should be overcome by the deserving 
teams.
The banner clashes of the week look 
to be Pi Kappa Alpha-Delta Upsilon 
(February 5). Sigma Alpha EpsilonSigma Nu (February 5), McGill-Scobell (February 5), and Kappa SigmaKappa Epsilon (February 4). All are 
undefeated except Kappa Sigma, 
which, however, is reputed to be dan
gerous, nevertheless., The others 
have shown their worth in former con
tests.
A sidelight in the series will be the 
dormitory games, which should prac
tically determine tlie dorm champs, as 
the two victors to date will oppose 
each other in the McOilhScobell strug
gle. Boss and Henderson Halls mean
while are scheduled to light It out for 
the consolation prisfe, both having lost 
their first game.
Games tills week:
February 3.
Beta Sigma Rho vs. Woodlawn 
(Nathionai Leaguo).
Alpha Tau Omega vs. Theta Xi (Na
tional League).
Delta Mu vs. Beta Theta PI (Amer
ican League).
Iota Sigma Delta vs. Wolcli Hall 
(Federal League).
February 4.
Boss Hall vs. Henderson Hall (Na
tional Leaguo).
Kappa Sigma vs. Kappa Epsilon 
(American League).
Sigma Epsilon Phi vs. Acacia 
(American League).
Delta Tau Delta vs.. Delta Chi Rho 
(Federal League).
February 5.
PI Kappa Alpha vs. Delta Upsilon 
(National League),
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Sigma Nu 
(American League),
Delta Phi Delta vs. Kappa Sigma 
Rho (Fodoi'al League).
McGill Hall vs. Scohell Hall (Fed
eral League).
May 1- 
May 2- 
May SMay 9- 
May 14- 
May 15- 
May 16- 
May 19- 
May 21- 
May 22 
ectady.
May 23- 
New York, 
May 27- 
May 29- 
May 30
-Wash-Joli, there.
-West Virginia, there. 
-State College, here.
-West Virginia, here 
-Bethany, here.
-Pitt, hero.
-Alumni, here.
Bucknell, here.
Pending.
-Union College, at' Scheu
:New York University, tit
-Pitt, there.
-Wash-Jeff, there.
-Pending.
JOHN HOPKINS DEFEATS 
CARNEGIE RIFLE TEAM
TARTAN QUINT SET 
FOR GROVER TILT
Home Season to be Opened 
By One of Carnegies Big 
Cage Rivals
During the week of January 12 tho j 
Carnegie Rifle Team shot a prone po
sition match with the John Hopkins i 
University Rifjo Team. Even though j 
our team shot 493. a marked improve
ment over tie score in the Chicago 
match, they were defeated by John 
Hopkins by a score of 500-493. John 
Hopkins by making 500 shot the high-1 
ost possible score that can be made 
in a single position match. The Car
negie team consisted of the following 
men: Hughes, Knappenberger, Wil
son, Guthrie, Powers, Smith, Reck, 
Jarenia, Jolmer and Heuderson. 
Hughes won llrst. place, Knappenberg
er second. Smith third, Henderson 
fourth, Jarema, Powers and Wilson 
tied for fifth.
All matches will be shot from now 
on under the newly formed Intercol
legiate Rifle Leaguo and will bo shot, 
in four positions: prone, standing,
sitting and kneeling. Matchos are 
shot on the schools own range, the 
rosults being tologrnphed to the other 
team the last day of the match. The 
schedule as arranged by the league 
for Carnegie is as follows:
February 8-14 ..............'... Georgetown
February 15-21.. ..Goorgo Washington
February 22-2S........University of Pgh.
March 1-7 ............................. Lafayette
March 8-14 .........................Gettysburg
March 15-21 ......................... St. Jolnis
March 22-2S.......................lolin Hopkins
Unpopular Songsi 
II. is rumored that a groat many of 
theso Go home to mother and dad, 
songs Avere written by college (loans, 
The I-Iolcad.
Several Plaid Swimmers 
To Compete in Fast Meets
This woolc Coach Boukoma expects 
to enter several ol.' his mon In a moot 
at t he P. A. A. on Friday evening and 
one at tho Pittsburgh Natatorlum on 
Saturday evening. Tho attraction at 
those two meets will bo Johnny Weis
muller, tho fastost human In water, 
Palrod with him will ho S til b y Krue
ger, another Avorlds champion. This 
would look as though our boys will 
have a great deal of competition over 
the weolc end.
It is felt that tho greater and great
er improvement shown by the bpys 
each week will in tho courso of events 
cause the Athletic Council to recog
nize the swimming team officially at. 
Carnegie. Once the sport is well 
started there should be an over in
creasing interest, for swimming is 
one of those sports in which there is 
real enjoyment to be had. The swim
ming pool in the new gym is one of 
the best and largest in the state, and' 
each day is attracting more and more 
future greats. Some of tlie boys 
are already veritable ducks, and have 
to be chased out of the pool at clos
ing time.
In Nautlonl Language.
Harry I hear the captain has had 
hard luck. His wife has run away 
from him.
GoorgoYes, ho took lior for a 
mate and she proved a skipper."
Suicide in Sleep
M. Thornton .lones, a solicitor of 
Bangor, England, cut Ids tlmml In Ids 
sleep and died 80 minutes later. I 
droamt that 1 had done It," ho wrote 
In a moment of consciousness. I 
awoke lo llnd It true. A verdict of 
sulcldo while temporarily insane was 
returned.
The llrst homo basketball game of 
the season will bo played on tho floor 
of tho new gym next Friday night, 
February 6, against Grove City Col
lege. The varsity game will be pre
ceded by a game between the Tartan 
Plebes and the California Normal 
tossers, which starts at 7:30.
Admission to the game will be l>y 
student tickets or cash payment. This 
game is oxpectod to be one of the 
best attractions of the local court 
season. Grove City has for many 
years been a traditional basketball 
rival of the Sklbos, and is planning 
to send a largo group of adherents 
to make sure that the girders of tho 
gymnasium do not vibrate only to tho 
tune of Tartan cheers.
An examination oi' the records of 
the two teams during the last four
teen years indicates that Grove City 
has held tlie edge over tlie Plaid near
ly every year. Since 1911, out of 17 
games played, Carnegie has Avon five, 
and the Grovers twelve. In the years 
Avlien tAvo games Avere staged betAveen the tAvo schools, Carnegie has 
never been able to emerge Avitli bet
ter than an even break.
One of the most memorable basket
ball contests within recent years was 
tho one of 1922, Avlien Grove City came 
to Pittsburgh Avit.li one of lior best 
teams in years. It Avas a team that 
had gone through the season thus far 
Avlthout defeat. Counting Its record 
of tho previous season, it had run up 
a total of nearly tAventy straight vic
tories. Then it met; a Tartan team 
that played as though Inspired, and 
amid cheers that rocked tho old field 
house, bowed boforo tho Plaid Avlth 
a score of 29 to IS against thom.
Unfortunately tho Sklbos, in tho 
socoiul game of the somton against 
Grovo City, and on tho la liters floor, 
could not repeal: their early victory. 
For the last two soasons CJarnoglo has 
boon unable to roglstor a victory 
against tho fast Grove City floor men.
With the passage of examinations, 
tho lineup of the Plaid is doubtful. 
One or two names hitherto In tho 
roster will probably ho missing, and 
LOY! ones may be added as tho result 
of tho scholastic eligibility situation.
Boedo, Lynch and Conrad Y!Bprob
ably bo soon in their old positions, 
with tho forward John in doubt. lOvou 
more uncertainty exists with respect 
to tho Jlrosh man team. Coach John 
Irwin's proteges are usually harder 
hit by mid-year examinations than tho 
varsity. A. good start against Grovo 
City and California Normal would 
just about Inspire tho success.or tho 
H'klbo teams for tho remainder of tho 
now semester,
Heavy Bird Slaughter
More birds are killed In Might every 
year by rural telephone, telegraph and 
electric wires and poles and by the 
domestic cat than by tho guns of 
Mporismon, It Is contended by compe
tent authorities.
Marian - Why don't, you make love 
to mo when you kiss me?
MarionAfraid to, It. might turn 
your head.Amherst, Lord Jeff.
PLEBES WORKING HARD 
FOR BETTER SHOWING
After its bit of back-sliding the 
plebe basketball team is now patient
ly Avaiting its chance to make good 
this Friday evening against Califor
nia Normal. It is hoped that the 
laspe in athletics during the exami
nation period avIU have proven just 
Avliat the squad needed, and that they 
will come back against California Avith 
a bit of vengance.
Friday's game Avili be played as a 
preliminary to the Carnegie-GroveCity clash and should furnish plenty 
of excitment, as the California, Pa., 
team is far from unbeatable. This Is 
the first opportunity the yearlings 
have had to appear on their home 
floor, and they are anxious to make a 
good showing before the home crowd. 
All of their gamos to date have been 
played outside of Pittsburgh with the 
exception of tho Pitt contest.
Coach John Irwin has been work
ing under a severe handicap all sea
son; there being a decided lack of 
candidates and especially those hav
ing had previous experience. Con
stant efforts aro, however, beginning 
to show in the passing and floor or
ganization of the squad, and oven 
though these results have not yet 
manifested themselves in tlie scoring, 
the teamwork has been developing 
rapidly.
Tho California game wass original
ly sheduled for Saturday evening at 
California, Pa., but as a preliminary 
was desired for the varsity contest, 
the games with the up-state team 
were reversed.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces u series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
WRWIEYSAfter Every Meal
Its the longest-lasting confection you can buy and its a help to digestion and a cleanser tor the mouth and teeth.
Wrljjlcy's means 
benclit as well as 
pleasure.
or neat ap
pearance, the 
reat aid to 
success. Keep 
your hair 
j combed ail 
j day with
(Gloss-Comb)
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID HAIR DRESSFOR
Real Men and Boys
Send for Sample Bottle 
Mall coupon today for gener
ous trial bottle. Normany  
Products Co., tifili McKinley 
Ave., Los Angeles, Cai.
Name.................................
Address.............................
STUDY at HOME for EXTRA CREDITS
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by corrcopondcncc. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully 
will be furnished on request. Write today.Cfje iHmbcrjJitp of Cfjicago
CHICAGO. ILLINOISOS ELLIS HALL

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. FEBRUARY 3, 1925
ALUMNI PAGEJ*
MADE DIRECTRESS 
OF SOCIAL WORK
Miss Finley Assumes Duties 
in Pittsburgh Social Work 
Bureau
J CLAN NEWS ]
Having had considerable experi
ence and educational training, CBAA 
fena Finlay, of Williamsburg, Ky., 
took poBt-gruduato work at Carnegie 
and graduated with tlie class or 1028. 
Recently she bus been appointed a 
a chief nodal directress ol! tho Social 
Work Bureau of tho City of Ilttsburgh. Her dutiea will be varied. 
Chief among them will bo determin
ing of tho partial charity cases and 
tho total charity canon. They come 
to her for final decision.
At the time alio left school, she 
enrolled for a two years course in 
aociology at tho Now York School of 
Social Work. After graduating from 
this achool, Mias Finley worked from 
aix to eight montha in modlcal aoclal 
work at the Cornell clinic in New 
York. In this connection, ahe was 
able to got much aaaiatanco from her 
father, Dr. F. W. Finley.
She was immediately aucceaaful in 
this work in New York, but ahe was 
offered a poaitlon as dlrectreaa of the 
medical social work of the clinics in 
Knoxville, Term. Her duties In this 
capacity consisted principally in look
ing after tho home life of patients 
who are treated by that city. It is a 
position that requires both patience 
and personality, and roilecta much on 
tho capabllitloaa of Miaa Finley.
Having graduated from RandolphMacon Collego, Lynchburgh, Va., ahe 
came to Carnegie on a poat-graduato 
course in aoclplpgy. During lior stay 
liere, she proved to be proficient in 
lior studios and at the same time to 
bo popular around tho campus.
Miss Finley has chosen the field 
where It Is possible to use the per
sonality which won her so many 
friends while ill school. Her rapid 
advanc since leaving school shown 
tho advantago of having a well round
ed education coupled with experience. 
These qualities combined with per
sonality should make her a proficient 
social worlcor,
NEW YORK CLAN
The Now York Clan has mailed its 
third bulletin announcing the annual 
dinner and dance to bo hold at the 
El Patio McAlpin Hotel, Now York, 
on tho evening of February 7th, at 
7:00 p. m. sharp.
Alumni over a wide area have been 
reached, but only those listed in tho 
Carnegie Directory, for want of com
plete names and addresses.
If those of you who have received 
announcement will kindly pass them 
on to aomebody who may not be on 
our mailing list or will send us their 
names and addreaaes, wo should bo 
glad to Invito them to these "doings. 
Wo are certain to have not only the 
largest crowd at any similar affair, 
but are certain to make this a per
manent milestone in Carnegie Clan 
history.
To those alumni residing about mid
way between Pittsburgh and here, we 
would advise, in order to avoid a con
flict between tlie annual costume ball 
of tho Arte School on February 0th 
and the New York affair on February 
7th, that they attend both, partiea.
The committee contemplates 
aplendld a time'hero in Now York that 
(.no need not.consider liimaelf an Arab 
for coming Bast.
To be certain, the eligibility rules 
for attendance In New York on Feb
ruary 7th will not be ao sdrlngent. 
The committee invites all alumni 
from whatever section and as many 
of his or her gueBtsfor tho guests 
have been made in advance.
"El Patio in all its Spanish splen
dor will vie with the Design School In 
its loveliness and lightness. Casttnets, 
bandanas, mantillas, otc., are in order 
bring them with you. Toreadors 
and Matadors will have to make spe
cial arrangements with tho committee.
T. L. GLEASON, SR.
The aad nows was rocolvod at tho 
Alumni Ofilco tills week that Mr. T. 
L. Gleason, Sr., the. father of Thomas 
Gleason, Jr., died at his homo in Al
bany, N. Y., on Tuesday, January 20, 
at tho ago ol! 81, years.
Tho many friends ol! Mr. Gleason, 
Jr., rogrot to know ol! his loss and ex
tend tholr sympathy to him In hl*:i 
time of grief.
LEO WHITEHEAD
Word was rocolvod by TUbrook of 
tho Alumni Ofilco that Loo WhIto
bend, son of Sarah Whltohoad, died 
on April 7, 11)1-1, at his homo in Eliza 
both, N. .1.
8tudontn doalrlnu to do ovonInfl nhopplnn for fllftd nod groot. 
Inq onrdn, ann not. Into tho Stup
or Pon p*B Gift Shop, Jonklmi 
Aroado, until 9:30 p. m.
BARTO MAKES EXTENSIVE
TRIPS TO HIGH 8CHOOL8
Dr. Barto baa Just returned from a 
two weoka trip on which ho vialted 
several of tho larger high schools In 
Southern Ohio, and Went Virginia, 
where he gave explanation}) on the 
cntranco requiremcnta of Carnegie. 
Ho has planned another trip which 
will be up through Now York state 
and down through Eantern Pennsyl
vania. The fib trips are of importance 
In that they will help clear up many 
mlaconcoptlonn of Carnegie entrance 
requirements
Grill Room Opening Marks Another Epoch
Latest Campus Improvement 
is the New Lunch Room
WHITNEY ACCEPTS 
POSITION AT PITT
I DEPARTMENT HEAD ELECTED 
PRESIDENT AT N. Y. MEETING
Takes Position in Industrial 
Education Department; 
Begins at Once
POLESIES FANTASY POR
TRAYS GAY AND DAZZLING 
BAND OF ORIENT
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
Tho placo whore all good felloVd moot and enjoy u good 
moal.
Special 3Gc plate dinner, in
cluding dasBert.
FORwES ABOVE CRAIG
Smiles litili 
 bacie at
isP-YsiU
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A"t for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
(Continued From Pag One.) 
subtle illusion. Of these, Madame 
Karpova desorves unlimited praise 
for her direction and perfection of tho 
solo dances. Tho chorun dancing is 
directed by Ann Lurie; tho songs by 
Ohio Nowman. The book and lyrics 
wore written by Herbert Polesio, 
who is, moreover, directing the pro
duction, but tho music, unusually 
beautiful and appealing, was com
posed by Vornor Haldone, with tho 
anslstanco of Dan Crane.
Tho neonos are laid In the cave of 
tho robbers, and In tho palace of the 
Calif. Tho fanciful sets designed by 
John G ilbert and Hard Io Albright
contribute Immeasurably to tho crea
tion of an Illusion of seml-harbarle 
splendor and opnlonoo, mystery, and 
tho occult mfluonoo of poworful genii. 
Tho effect of tho sotting is supple
mented and enhanced by the light
ing, directed by Robert Guilder.
Maury Tuelterman In stage manager. 
John Gilbert and Virginia Wallaco
havo oroatod the eontnmon for tho
cast, Thono eontnmon are now being 
made by Janet CBBSu2 Elizabeth Sowornby, and tholr crow of annlntantn, 
but In order that the audience may 
he tho more delighted by them on tho 
night; of tho performance, tho designs 
for the eontnmon are not being 
hlhltod.
Tho decoration of tho foyor and 
oorrldorn In nonring completion. Thin 
year tho deeoratlonn will ho of 
construction more durable and fire
proof than ever before. Tho design 
committee in using boavor board for 
a very considerable part of tho work. 
Oriental rugs of great beauty and 
value have boon procured from down
town department stores. Those will 
lend an air of rlchnoss impossible to 
obtain through tho use of imitation 
fabrics. The committees realize that 
an illusion of actuality can be be ob
tained by employing honest construc
tion and decoration. It is their 
intention to recreate an Arabian i set
ting, and they believe that their aim 
will best be realized by the use of 
materials which might have had a 
part in the construction of. ancient 
Persian or Indiau pleasure pavillions.
Another of tho improvements 
Carnegies Campus which were need
ed and havo juat been met are the 
eating facilities. The first eating 
place waa in a building down where 
part of tho InduatrleB College now 
atanda.
Tho first move waa to the Bean
ery which haa aince been transform
ed to "The Commons. Then came 
the moving of the girls' lunch room 
from tho fourth fioor of Margaret 
Morrison Collego to the new Carnegie 
Inn. Now for the last addition is the 
Grill Room.
Tho interior of the old field house 
which was so well known to older 
graduates haa been AO thoroughly re
modeled tliat no one would ever re
cognize it as the,old basket ball floor 
or the dressing rooms. The Grill 
Room which occupies what was once 
the showers, training rooms, and the 
dressing rooms is something of which 
the students can justly be proud.
The entrance to tho Grill which 
leads off Woodlawn at the end of the 
field houao towurda Forbea street, is 
unique because of a tree that hap
pened to bo right in tho center of 
tho walk. The concrete arch is built 
around it. A hard wood stair case 
leads from an anto-rooin at the door 
down to the Grill. Tho low and well 
supported coiling together with the 
quaint English furniture gives tho 
room tho nppoaranco of an old Eng
lish tavern. Tho side lighting and 
rod stained wood on tlie walls gives 
it a look of solidity and comfort.
At one end of a big stone fire plafce 
open up and has on either side loung
ing honchos with high backs. At the 
other end is tho food counter at which 
moala, lunches, and soda fountain serThero seems to exist in human na
ture a tendency to drift back toward 
your Alma Mater. Gerald De Foreat 
Whitney, of Michigan, has obeyed 
'this tendency. While not getting all 
the way back, Whitney has got as 
close aa the University of Pittsburgh, 
which seems to bo his limit.
In an article of the Industrial Edu
cation Magazine for February, the 
following concerning Mr. Whitney is 
stated.,
"Another good man has been taken 
from the staff of the Pennsylvania 
State Department of Vocational Edu
cation. This is the editorial com
ment of the Industrial Education 
Magazine upon the appointment of 
Gerald DeForrest Whitney, Carnegie 
graduate, as profesBor of industrial 
education at the University of Pitts
burgh.
Professor Whitney has a sound 
training in industrial work as a foun
dation for his riey position. He has. 
had considerable practical training 
in addition to an extensive education. 
He received his early schooling in. 
Bradley, and Kalamazoo, Michigan. In 
addition to his degree of B. S. in in
dustrial education from Carnegie, 
the holder of a diploma and a certi
ficate from Western State Normal 
School in Kalamazoo. I-Ie has also 
spent two summers at Columbia Uni
versity taking special courses in edu
cation.
In addition to his education he has 
had thirteen years of experience in 
teaching, three as a teacher in a coun
try school in Michigan, and ten years 
as a special instructor in shop work 
and drawing in tho schols of the City 
of Pittsburgh.
For the past five years he lias been 
located in Harrisburg as state super
visor of Industrial education. His 
duties included supervision of indus
trial teachers as well as survey work 
In Pennsylvania cities and prepara
tion of bulletins and reports.
Professor Whitney assumes his 
new duties immediately.
Professor Samuel E. I^Ibble, head 
of the Department of Heating, Ven
tilating, and Sanitation at Carnegie 
Institution of Technology, was elect
ed president of the American Society 
of Heating and Ventilating Engineers 
at the annual meeting of the Society 
in New York yesterday.
Professor Dibble has served for 
several years as a member of the 
Committee on Research Work and 
during the past year he was first vicepresident of the organization.
]'SPECIAL COURSES 
tj STARTED IN M.M.C.
Dr. Baker opened the first annual 
Night School Assembly which was 
held in the Music Hall last Friday 
evening, January 23, with a short ad
dress.
Night Students Hear 
Noted Aircraft Major
First General Assembly Held 
in Music Hall Friday
Students at Night School represent 
men from over 900 firms. The Car
negie Steel Company and the Westingliouse Company, being almost tied for 
first place. The former having 204 
and the fatter 201.
Night School enrollment has in
creased from 1,200 in 1921 to 2,800 in 
1925.
vice are given. The center is filled 
with small square tables. A little 
variation is given by two longer tab
les which occupy a central position 
and have benches for seats. To make 
the Grill more coin plot o a supply of 
candy, and light groceries are carried.
IMRGG WRMd auzzle R. 7
By D. D. CAMERON
The reason that so many of our pro 
fessors are bald is that they spend 
so much of their time splitting hairs.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
UNPARALLELED
RGmAduGTvesRuMG 
am EUROPE
PtS CmH mEH NLYYTO NRADEDt
Large choice of 
itineraries; tours 
by leading Liners 
every few days 
during season
Rate 255
Rur IvteXs all expense tour,visiting Paris, 
Versailles Brussels, Antwerp, Lotulon, etr,
Onr Reputation is Your GnarmUe!
THOS. COOK - SON
PHILADELPHIA 
130 South 15th Street i
This puzzle has been submitted by Mr. Cameron of the English Depart
ment and may prove quite a test of the students intelligence. Mr. Cameron, 
who has studied journalism and formerly worked on a newspaper, compiled 
this enigma to brighten up the college wit a bit after a week of exams.
HORIZONTAL
1A much abused college student.
5A well known sage.
9A person who thought he was ed
ucated.
11A rock marine projection.
12A city near Babylon.
1-1A Grecian art.
1GSuffix for ordinals. (Abbrev.)
17Three-fourths of a city.
19One of Tech's most formidable 
football rivals.
20Often used in connection with 
feathers.
21An Eastern make-up preparation.
23An abbreviation often found on
exam papers. (Sometimes it 
stands for that which a student 
doesnt know.)
2-1Another sufo collego.
25Lizards attend thom in the after
noon.
27A Grecian goddesis.
28More than a molecule.
29A famous eontlnont.nl motor car.
80Christian name of a woll known
actor.
82Abbreviated colloquialism for one 
of the few vehicles which still 
havo to be pushed. (Think hard, 
married men!)
34Small mountain lake.
35Latin abbreviation for "Holy 
Mother Church.
37Perhaps you have struck at least
| ono already.
39French past participle of verb to 
bo."
40A country beyond the Alps.
42A mineral spring.
43Steamship. (Abbrev.)
44A crafty Greek.
46A college degree. (Latin abbrev.)
47A coquettish glance.
45The order of tlie tooth.
50The Plebes hobgoblins.
51Officer's rank. (Abbrev.)
VERTICAL
1Every Carnegie team has plenty 
of it.
2For example. (Abbrev.)
3Fraternity term. (Abbrev.)
4Auricular appendages.
5Withered.
6An illegitimate aid to a student.
7A conjunction that makes all the 
difference.
8One of Techs colors.
10A fruitful engagement.
11Military organization. (Abbrev.)
13Disturbance of the public peace.
15To make an edge of lace.
1GA piece of narration. .
ISTech has a little one.
20A collegiate orchestra.
22One of tho few subjects a Tech 
student should be, but is not, re
quired to take. i
24A student usually spends four of 
thom at college.
2GA distress signal.
27Usual repository for a flash.
80A stable diet for hor.sos and Scots. 
(Seo Samuel Johnsons Lexicon.)
31A festive occasion.
33Representation of tho earths sur
face. (Plural.)
34Horrlblo class periods.
35A swelling of the eyelid.
3GOtherwise.
3SThe whole series of musical notes.
40That which impairs happiness. 
(Plural.)
41Every college has one; every stu
dent can do it.
44An exclamation of disgust.
45A piece of equipment for a winter 
sport
47Work. (Latin abbrev.)
49Symbol for a nonmetallic element.
The need of a greater aircraft ser
vice as the only effective defense 
against enemy attacks on this coun
try was the conclusion advanced by 
Major Henry C. Pratt, assistant to 
Major General Mason M. Patrick, 
Chief of the Air Service of the U. S. 
Army, on Aircraft in National De
fense, last Friday night given in Car
negie Music Hall at the flrsfc annual 
general assembly of the night stu
dents of Cainegle Institute of Tech
nology.
Aircraft has destroyed our geo
graphical isolation and materially re
duced the time in which we might 
prepare for our defense after war is 
declared, he said. The fact that 
we must have' aircraft for military 
use will have a bearing upon the econ
omic phases of our national defense 
problem; the only effective defense 
against an air attack is an air force 
of our own.
The assembly was attended by a, 
majority of the 2700 or more night 
students, a large representation of 
the more than 900 employers of night 
students, members of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce, and of the 
Aero Club of Pittsburgh, in addition 
to many relatives and friends of the 
students..
The program of exercises, which 
was featured by the address of Major 
Pratt, included a number of interest
ing announcements by President 
S. Baker, and organ selections by 
Charles A. H. Pearson. The Sym
phony Orchestra of the Department 
of Music, under the direction of Pro
fessor J. Vick OBrien, department 
head, presented selections from 
S'cheherazada, (Rimsky-Korsakow) 
and Trepak from The Nutcracker 
Suite (Tchaikovsky).
Major Pratt-, who substituted as the 
speaker for his chief, General Pat
rick, when the latter was taken sud
denly ill tills week, gave a compre
hensive survey of the development of 
aircraft as a military force. He il
lustrated the first half of his address 
with an unusual and interesting ser
ies of motion pictures showing the 
various type of planes in army use.
In stressing the need for aircraft 
as a vital defensive factor in nation
al denfonse, ho said:
There were two great lessons 
which wero taught by tho World War, 
the' Importance of which has been 
only emphasized by our subsequent 
study First of all, an army without 
an air force contending against ono 
so equipped is practically helpless. I 
have called tho Air Service the eyes 
of the army. Without it, an army 
is blind and could no more fight ef
fectively than could a blind man op
posed to one who was able to see 
to parry every blow aimed at him, 
to plant at will upon his helpless an
tagonist the blows which he himself 
deals.
The second and even greater les
son is that there is no effective de
fense against aerial attack except an 
air force of our own. Much is made 
by some of the possibilities of anti
aircraft fire and while such a method 
of defense must still be employed and 
may, under certain circumstances be 
reasonably efficacious, it could not be 
relied upon to prevent absolutely an 
attack by aircraft. Our own experi
ences during the war bears this out. 
Of all of our losses of aircraft and 
airmen, only about one per cent, can 
be attributed to anti-aircraft fire. 
General Groves of the English Army 
states that in all the German raids 
over England during the World War 
not more than six airplanes were 
brought down by anti-aircraft guns.
President Baker payed special tri
bute to the many night students ,wko 
travel over 25 miles one way to at
tend classes three or four nights a 
week. Among the localities so repre
sented, he said, were Rochester, 26 
miles ; Canonsburg, 26 miles; Monaca, 28 miles; Beaver, 29 miles; Jean
nette, 29 miles, Beaver Falls, 30 miles 
and Monesson, 3S miles.
The record is held by two brothers, 
Leroy and Ralph Eschrisli, who have 
been coming by auto three evenings 
a week from Stoyestown, Pa., about 
69 miles oast of Pittsburgh on the 
Lincoln highway.
During Professor Crabtrees ab
sence because of ill health, Mr. W. B. 
Skinkle, a Night School graduate, has 
been taking charge of his class in 
Metallurgy of Iron and Steel. Mr. 
Skinkle attended school since 1912, 
finishing in 1923 and now holding M.E., 
B.S. and M.E. degrees.
Two brothers by name of Eschler, 
wh'o hail from Stoystown, were given 
a hand by the audience when it was 
announced that they were registered 
in a plumbing course and traveled all 
the way by automobile three nights a 
week for classes. Stoyestown is 69 
miles out from Pittsburgh along the 
Lincoln Highway.
Employes of many of the students 
were present and lent an interest to 
the assembly.
Carnegie Chosen to
Give Official Course
Classes Begin Feb. 2; Teach 
Courses in Marketing, So
cial Work, Weaving
Carnegie has recently been chosen 
by the Masters Plumbers Associa
tion of the United States as having 
the most representative course in 
heating and ventilating of any uni
versity or technical school in the 
cuntiy. This organization, within the 
past year or so, has inaugurated the 
practice of awarding several scholar
ships each year to the sons of its 
members to enable them to obtain a 
technical education. After careful 
consideration of the most desirable 
schools for this purpose they gave 
Carnegie their earnest approval, and 
have established it as their official 
training school. One of the state
ments which they made was that it 
would be possible to duplicate the 
freshman and sophmore years of the 
course by requiring practical work 
of the students during the sum
mer months, but that the complete
ness and perspective of the junior 
and senior years at Carnegie could 
not be approached by any other 
school of its kind.
The success of courses such as some 
of those offered by the College of 
Industries is frequently impeded by 
the prejudice which the practical man 
feels toward technical training. Very 
slowly, this prejudice's being over
come as evidenced by decisions such 
as the ono made by the Master Plum
bers Assn, and the supremacy of 
scientific training is becoming more 
firmly established. Carnegie, in this 
instance, ' was instrumental in pro
moting this tendency.
Another activity of the same nature 
is the Conference for the training of 
plumbing instructors to be held from 
February sixteenth to the twentyeighth. It is being offered through 
the cooperation of Carnegie, Pitt, and 
a national plumbing organization, and 
according to Director Morris, its ob
ject is to take a group of selected 
plumbers and tell them Avhat and 
how to teach their apprentices. The 
nature of the instruction will be such 
as can be understood by anyone who 
has had five or more years experience 
as a journeyman plumber, and will be 
open to anyone who can meet this 
qualification. No training will be 
given in the practical work of plumb
ing except as incidental to the illus
tration of teaching methods. Prof. 
Dibble, and several other members 
of the faculty of Carnegie and also 
of Pitt will be the instructors. A 
very interesting feature of the con
ference will be a number of inspection 
trips to various industrial concerns 
connected with the plumbing industry. 
The subjects considered will not be 
confined to heating and ventilating 
alone, but wall touch upon such 
topics as general science and the im
portance of systematic training.
A number of snecial courses are of
fered for the spring semester, of 
which probably the most interesting 
those in Marketing and Meal 
Serving, and Weaving. This duo. of 
courses is offered by the Margaret 
Morrison Carneeie College especially 
for brides, prospective brides and 
housewives.
In the Market and Meal Serving 
course the problems of food produc
tion and distribution, and the discus
sion of the local market condition are 
studied thoroughly, as are also the 
planning, preparing and serving of 
various types of meals with special 
reference to the selection and cost of 
food.
The Weaving course teaches the us& 
of the hand loom, the weaving of tex
tiles, the dyeing of threads and the 
study of colors.
Both of these courses are proving 
quite popular with the young ladies of 
today and we sincerely hope that our 
future brides will be inspired to takethis course. The classes begin dur
ing the week of February 2nd and will 
continue until April 18th.
Several courses in Social Work are 
offered this semester including Recre
ation I and Recreation II which are 
taught by Miss Bonnell in the Union 
on Monday evenings from 6:00 to 8:00 
p. m. The Introduction to Social. 
Work, taught by Mrs. Burnett and 
Miss McBride in the Margaret Morri
son College on Wednesdays from 3:20 
to 5:00 p. m., and the Introduction to> 
Social Case Work taught by Miss Con
don on Fridays from 3:20 to 5:00 p. 
m. are also included in the Social 
Work courses.
The Short Course in the Principals 
of Iron and Steel Making with Pro
fessor McIntosh as instructor will un
doubtedly prove to be of great valuein this great Steel City. This course 
is given in the American Legion Hall 
at Woodlawn, Pa., every Wednesday 
evening from 8:00 to 9:30 p. m., end
ing on May 20th.
Carnegie offers a short course deal
ing with Coal and Its Utilization given 
by members of the faculty with the 
co-operation of the U. S. Bureau of 
Mines. It is to end on March 27th. 
Classes will be held in the Science 
School on Fridays from 8:00 to 9:30.
There are also the customary Auto
mobile Short Courses in which classes 
are held daily from 8:30 to 11:30 a. 
m. and from 1:30 to 4:30 p. m. in Ma
chinery Hall, and on Monday, Wednes
day and Friday from 11:30 to 12:30 
a. m. in the Industries Building. The 
instructors are Professor Ambrose 
and other members of the faculty.
Mrs. MimbyBut isnt your son 
rather young to join the array?
Mrs. HockingWeli, he is very 
young but then, you see, he is only 
going to join the infantry.
Oakland Savings & f 
Trust Co. |
Mef.iber Federal Reserve
System. *
Capital........................$300,000.00 
Surplus.......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES X 
FOR RENT X
Stop at Hage Beauty Shoppe 
Expert Work Quick Serviec 
THREE OPERATORS 
Ladies and Gentlemens 
Manicuring a Specialty.
418 CRAIG STREET 
Schenley 6196-R
NOTE OF EXPLANATION
The Tartan shoulders the blame 
and regrets very much because of 
tho admission of an article concern
ing tho Now York party to bo held 
in Fobruary 7, which should have 
been run in last weeks issue. We 
will bend every effort to avoid a fu
ture recurrence of this kind.
Frosli, in Math, lixamHow far are 
you from the right answer?
Second DittoTwo seats.  The 
Springfield Student.
I get a big kick every time 1 kiss 
Margaret.
Gee, she doesnt object to mine.
The canny S^ot was not quite sure 
whether birsiness would keep him 
away from his evening meal. Jeanie, 
Ma lass, said he to his wife before 
he left home in the morning, if Im 
no able to be home, Ill ring ye up at 
six precisely. Dinna talc the receiver 
off, and then Ill no have to pit in ma 
two pence."
Student: ((Knocking at door 3 a. 
m.) Does tlie Dean live here? 
Deans wife: ((from upstairs win
dow) Yes, bring him right in the 
front door.
Telephone Schenley 0870-J
Approved Marinello Shop
Marcel WavingManicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
T reatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
iMelross ft
Y
OU can. pay more than $9 
or $7 for mens footwear, 
but why do it when you can 
get the latest modls, the finest 
imported and domestic lethers 
and the best workmanship in 
John Ward Mens Shoes^_at 
those prices?
On Display By
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick at
SKIBO INN 
TOMORROW
1NOORVOIIATUB *
Store in New Tfork, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia Addres for Mr.il, Order, lgi Hud*on ft, New York.City.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
