TARJAN
January 24, 1978 Volume 78, Number 16 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Housing shortage expected
by Brian Byrnes
The sale of the Webster Hall Hotel and 
its future renovation into apartments 
threatens to aggravate the already serious 
housing shortage at CMU.
Auxiliary Services Director Bill Dillon 
explained that all rooms in Webster Hall 
must be vacated by May 18, when the new 
owners will take over ownership. CMU 
currently rents 91 spaces in Webster Hall, 
and will not be eligible to lease any new 
apartments.
One Webster Hall resident commented 
that he is glad to get out. Its a depressing 
place.
With the loss of Webster Hall and with 
new enrollment, Dillon projects an in
crease of 200 students that will have to be 
placed in University housing next year.
At the January 16th meeting of the 
Board of Trustees, Dillon made several 
suggestions on how to alleviate the housing 
problem. The suggestions are as follows:
1) Look for additional property de
sirable for student housing.
2) Restructure financial aid awards to 
eliminate the $350 advantage given to oncampus residents.
3) Create an off-campus housing service 
(under Student Affairs).
4) House about 100 students in hotels 
for the first month next year, then move 
them into dorms.
5) Change the definition of transfer 
students to include freshmen. Students 
who had previous academic experience, as 
opposed to first-time-ever freshmen, but 
classified as freshmen, should get low 
priority.
6) Negotiate the leasing of 200 spaces 
at Carlow College dormitories, over a half 
hour walk from campus.
Dillon asserted that there is adequate 
off-campus housing in Oakland, Shadyside 
and Squirrel Hill, but most students do not 
like this idea, because of inconvenience 
and social isolation. Dillon believes there 
is no economic advantage in living offcampus, and financial aid awards should 
be changed to equate on and off-campus 
living.
However, juniors and seniors who were
told that they would receive low priority 
on the housing list next year, need not 
worry about getting University housing. 
Dillon expects that any junior or senior 
desiring some type of housing next 
year should be able to receive it.
Projections for 1978-79 estimate that 
2500 students will require . on-campus 
housing. In contrast, CMU dormitories 
were originally designed for 1750 res
idents. Additional housing w..s added in 
the apartments in Doherty, Shirley, Roselawn and Woodlawn, and through re
classifying or constructing rooms in ex
isting buildings. Some help will come from 
the construction of the Margaret Morrison 
St. dorm, but occupation is not expected 
until mid-1979.
Dillon would like to see another dorm 
built between Doherty and Beta' Theta 
Pi, but he said it was difficult just to get 
Margaret Morrison approved by the Board 
of Trustees.
Htel Webster Hall, for years an Oakland institution, was recently sold due to financial difficulty and will be converted into apartments.
Head of Architecture post remains open
by Stuart Seidman
After 18 months, the search for a per
manent head of the Department of Ar
chitecture is still in progress.
Over the winter recess President Richard 
Cyert offered the job to Fred Koder of 
Yale University but Koder turned down 
the offer. Koder decided to expand his 
New England based private practice in
stead.
The Department of Architecture has 
been without a permanent head since June 
1976 when Delbert Highlands resigned. 
Highlands became department head in 
1967 and since resigning has stayed on 
the faculty to instruct freshman architects. 
Robert Taylor has been acting head since 
Highlands resignation.
A search committee was formed in 
June 1976 and during the 1976-77 school
Update:
Two more Rhodesians leave
Only fourteen of the original twentyfive students are still participating in the 
Rhodesian Project.
Besides the eight who were expelled 
for boycotting classes last term, two more 
have notified SUPA that they are ending 
their affiliation with the program. The stu
dents felt that they were doing poorly 
academically and were an undue drain on 
the projects limited resources.
Six of the expelled students have re
ceived full scholarships from the AfricanAmerican Institute in New York. This 
educationally-oriented institution works 
closely with the U.S. State Department. It 
is known that three of the six here have 
chosen to enroll in Seventh Day Adventist 
insitutions.
The other two expelled students. Nelson 
Thema and Alois Gowo, have yet to accontinued on page 2
year considered over 50 candidates. Hie 
committee recommended three candidates 
in April, 1977. Two candidates, Anthony 
Yeardley of the University of Kentucky 
and Robert Straika of Colorado turned 
down the position when it was offered 
to them last summer. They also chose to 
go into private pratice.
According to CFA Dean Akram Midani, 
the search committee will be reorgan
ized soon. But it is expected to take 
about a year to find a candidate.
The lack of a permanent department 
head should not affect the National Ar
chitecture Accreditation Board (NAAB) 
accreditation in March, since department 
reports prepared by the acting department 
head, have been accepted by NAAB.
One junior architecture student had ex
pressed fear that a lack of a permanant de
partment head could affect the NAAB accredidation.
insideFAILURE:Students cite apathy, grades
by Saul Carliner and Ed Frankenberry
/ used to hear stories about people flunking out of this place. 
I didn't believe them then, but 1 do now.
Students who receive below a 2.0 QPA are placed on academic 
probation. They are given one semester to improve their standing. 
If a student fails to do so, he is expelled from the University. 
Freshmen are allowed to go down to a 1.75.
Two students tell how they failed
The TARTAN recently spoke to two students who were ex
pelled at the end of the first semester for failing to improve 
their academic standing.
The first student described the situation he experienced in the 
architecture department. His general impression is that there 
were too many students for that area [the architecture program). 
You get the idea that somebody has to fail, he commented. 
This student flunked out of architecture, and transferred into 
psychology. The first semester of his sophomore year, he was 
deans student, a designation applied to CFA students whose 
academic performance had been unsatisfactory. His performance 
continued to be poor, however, even in H&SS. He felt that the 
courses required too much work, and that the introductory 
courses had classes that were too large. The instructors for those 
courses were not used to a class that large, and he believes that 
ihe department wished to cut people.
This student was barely able to pass his courses the first sem
ester this year, but he claimed he had a prolonged illness which
affected his performance, and was permitted to register as a deans 
student a second semester. He is currently attempting to change 
majors and departments.
A different situation arose for a student in C1T who has since 
left CMU. His academic performance was affected by an  I 
dont care attitude. He didnt see an application [of his studies] 
to practical experience, and therefore didnt care enough to do 
the work.
When selecting a college, this student was looking for a nice 
place when he decided on CMU. He chose his fields of study, 
business and electrical engineering because of its potential for 
income maximization but then decided that its all not worth 
it. His grades were low his second semester last year, and contin
ued to stay that way first semester.
At 7:45 AM, January 7, 1978, the Saturday before registra
tion, he received a telegram informing him that he would not be 
permitted to return for the second semester because his quality 
point average (QPA) following a previous semester of probation 
had dropped below the 2.0 minimum. He was not informed 
sooner, because grades are not submitted by instructors until 
January 3rd. However, this student was expecting the news. 
He tried to get University officials to readmit him. but they 
refused.
He does not think his poor performance at CMU should affect
his acceptance into a state university, where he hopes to be
continued on page 3
news...
CHEATING: It really happens (pg. 3)
A new section: FEATURES (pes. 9 
and 10)
entertainment...
Louis Falco Dance Company innovates 
(Pg19)
Design Issues Lecture begin (pg. 20)
sports...
I.M. football MVP named (pg. 28) 
Hoopers defeat John Carroll (pg. 28)
fol io...
POLIO brings you 1978 (pg. 11)
TARTAN 
Readership 
Poll: (pg. 21)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANJanuary 24, 1978
Two more Rhodesians
continued from page 1
quire educational sponsorship ;but they 
are confident of doing so. The PITTS
BURGH PRESS reported on January 18 
that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said the two must find a 
school to attend or voluntarily depart 
the U.S. by February.
The PITTSBURGH NEW SUN releave SUPA
ported January 12 that Representative 
Charles Diggs, Chairman of the House 
International Subcommittee on Africa, per
suaded CMU to extend the deadline for 
the eight expelled students to vacate 
University owned housing. The deadline 
was extended from December 31 to 
January 16. Also, one of the remaining 
14 students has switched from SUPA to 
CIT as an undergraduate.
SUPA Dean Otto Davis reported to 
the Board of Trustees Student Affairs 
and Educational Affairs Committees 
that the morale of the students re
maining in the program seems good, and 
that he expects the program to be com
pleted sucessfully. Dean Davis reported 
that inadequate academic preparation may 
have been a contributing factor to the 
academic problems. Dean Davis also said 
that the projects attrition rate has been 
close to the original anticipation. Com
menting on sensational press coverage 
which contributed to the controversy 
surrounding the program, Davis suggested 
that CMU will have to develop greater 
skill in managing public announcements 
relative to such programs.
Davis also conceded that it was a mis
take to house the students all together, 
away from the other graduate students. 
Additionally, Davis expects criticism of 
the Project from leftists at Pitt to con
tinue, since they really dont have any 
other target at present which appears as 
good to them.
The SUPA Rhodesian Project, designed 
to train future civil servants for whatever 
government comes into power in the striferidden segregationist nation, is sponsored 
through corporate and foundation funding. 
The source of this funding, as well as the 
political implications of the training, caus
ed much controversy among some students 
in the program, who later boycotted classes 
in protest. After the students refused to 
attend classes, CMU expelled them, and cut 
off all secondary support, including room 
and board.
News
Staff 
Meetings
Wednesdays, 
7:30 PM 
Skibo Room 50
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
The recent rape in Donner and the 
subsequent locking of inside fire doors 
were the subjects of much discussion at 
the last SDC meeting, January 15.
Donner resident Mory Brenner com
plained about the inconvenience of having 
the inner doors locked, and submitted a 
written proposal for change. The proposal 
asked that during certain hours designated 
by residents as danger hours, the two 
side doors at the front of Donner would 
be locked, and a monitor to check ID s 
would be placed at the front door. The 
proposal was passed by Council and sub
mitted to the University Fire and Safety 
Committee.
Corey Chase commented that incon
veniences are trivial next to the feelings of 
the woman who was raped. Chase had 
mentioned before that University Pres
ident Richard Cyert and Vice President 
Richard Van Horn were actively dealing 
with this issue, and ready to listen to stu
dents suggestions. He added, its path
etic a rape had to happen to make people 
listen.
Donner resident Carolyn Stewart added, 
for three years we have been trying to 
get better security in Donner, but weve 
always run into hassles, either with the 
students or the administration. Other 
women in Donner expressed a desire to 
have their bathrooms locked, since attacks 
on women often occur there.
SDC President Sam Grego read the 
crime statistics for December. There was 
one false fire alarm, five fires, one rape, 
and total property loss amounting to 
$6,394.
Treasurer Frank Worbs announced the 
presence of additional money due to the 
$1 increase in dorm fees, and asked com
mittee chairman to request any additional 
money they may need. Frank also stated 
that money allocated by Senate for the 
SDC movies is inadequate. (Senate now
allocates $600 for SDC movies, supposedly 
to pay for the off-campus people who 
attend the movies). SDC should get ad
ditional funds, since approximately 50% 
of the people attending Saturday movies 
are off-campus.
In other SDC news, Joe McGrail was 
introduced as the new Properties Manager, 
and Social Committee announced there 
will be a semi-formal Valentines Day
dance February 10._________
Last week the TARTAN erroneously re
ported that the Winter Activits Fair 
was sponsored by the Activities Board. 
The Fair was sponsored by the Student 
Senate.
HOT UJNCH 
75CI
Dahl (soup)Rice Chapattis (bread)
 Subji (vegetable) Tossed green salad
&*> Wholesome vegetarian food
NEWS BRIEFS
CMU remains open despite heavy snow
Despite two feet of snow which left Pittsburgh in an offical state of emergency, 
CMU remained open for classes last Friday.
University President Richard Cyert said that CMU remained open because when the 
state of emergency was called at noon, Friday, half the school day had gone by. 
Professors were already here, and most CMU students live on or near 
campus and transportation does not pose much of a problem to them.
According to Marilyn McShane, secretary for Business Affairs, the school was oper
ating with only a 30-40% crew.
 McShane added that some departments and colleges, such as GSIA and SUPA were 
almost virtually closed, with only skeleton staffs reporting, while the Mechanical 
Engineering and Electrical Engineering faculties were almost all in.
Key to deliver lecture
January 24, 1978. Dr. Wilson Bryan Key will deliver a free lecture on the art and 
tactics of subliminal seduction at 8:00 PM, Skibo Ballroom. Dr. Key has written 
two books on the subject of subliminal persuasion, Subliminal Seduction andMedia 
Sexploitation. He has a background in research and media communication studies and 
was a sociology professor at the University of Ontario for six years until his departure 
in July of 1975.
Interested in becoming a Resident 
Assistant?
Job descriptions and applications are now 
available in the Student Affairs office, 205 
Warner Hall.
In order to qualify for the position, you must 
be in good standing with the university, main
taining a Q.P.A. of 2.0.
Applications will be available from January 
16th to January 27th, 1978.
Return all completed applications to the 
Student Affairs Office by 5:00 p.m., Friday, 
January 27th. No applications will be accepted 
after that date and time.
All you con eot 
4626 Forbes Avenue in Oakland
Mon. - Sat., 1 1 a.m. - 3 p.m.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCF 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A
COMING SOON.....................GENE CORBINpresented by A B & FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1978TARTANpage 3
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
Senate herded together last Wednesday 
for its first meeting of the spring semester 
to pass the Spring Carnival Budget and 
recognize the Concrete Canoe Club as a 
non-supported university club.
In response to a letter to the editor, the 
Academic Affairs Committee is following 
up on the suggestion that foreign faculty 
should pass an oral English language exam.
Steve Belanich commented on the blood 
donor reception which was held after the 
Central Blood Bank drive. Although 300 
tickets, each valued at $1.50, were given to 
those who volunteered to donate blood, 
the attendance at the reception was poor. 
Belanich felt that the success of the blood 
drive was due to the efforts of the RAs, 
and that the reception wasnt necessary.
The Activities Fair, held on January 12, 
was well attended. The extra T-shirts, 
reading Active Students Do It Between 
Classes are available at Entropy for $2.50.
Chairperson David Roussos announced 
that two positions are available in the 
College of Fine Arts. Those interested 
should contact Ken Meinert via the Senate 
mailbox located behind the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Senate will convene tomorrow at 5:30 
in the Wherret Room.
Students debate 
grading policies
continued from page 1
now that he has more maturity. Iron
ically, he still wants to major in engineering.'
3 i Gradingponflict arises
Students in both of these cases, however, 
did not apply themselves to their studies. 
Another student was asked to leave CMU 
after he had already begun classes this 
semester. The student, an AMS sophomore, 
had been on academic probation first sem
ester and left for Christmas vacation confi
dent that his grades had improved. After 
grades were submitted however, his average 
was recalculated in one of his classes, and 
the grade for that course dropped one 
letter grade. The students QPA dropped 
below a 2.0, and he was consequently 
expelled.
Because of this, a controversy arises 
over the quality of the grading system at 
CMU. One sophomore in AMS stated that 
anyone has to be reasonably intelligent to 
get into this school, so I dont understand 
how anyone can flunk out.
Sometimes a student just cant hack 
it, like the last student described. Many 
people question how a student like that 
gets admitted in the first place. Others 
feel that the University has an obligation 
to see these students through. One soph
omore economics major added that any
one who simply works hard should get 
good grades. Ive seen people who average 
six hours a day studying get 2.6s.
However, an economics professor recent
ly told his class that only so many people 
can get As and B's, and so on. Even on a 
test where everyone scores well, this theory 
holds. Some professors guard against fail
ures by guaranteeing a passing grade by 
maintaining a certain average.
One freshman physics major agrees with 
the economics professors grading strategy, 
saying its a competitive world, and the 
best students should get an edge. If every
one does well on a test, it could be that the 
test is too easy, so it should be scaled. And 
if everyone does poorly, that too should be 
scaled, to reflect everyones performance 
to each other, and not some arbitrary 
grading scale-. * w-. . ...
Undergrads disclose cheating
by Linda Deak
Is the Pope Catholic? Does a chicken 
have lips? Is a bullfrog waterproof? Do 
CMU students cheat?
Although professors would swear that 
their classrooms and students are honor
able, there is a large amount of cheating 
noticed and disclosed by undergraduates 
of most colleges at this university.
Cheating occurs on all levels, from 
copying graded homework to stealing a 
final out of a professors office. There also 
seems to be an acceptable level of cheat
ing at CMU, rationalized as whatever it 
takes to survive this place and get the 
grades. Why is there such a blindness to 
blatant cheating on finals, tests, labs, 
projects, papers and homework?
Admittedly, students run a grave risk 
when they opt to cheat, usually getting an 
R in the course if they are caught. But 
what about those who dont get caught and 
end up with an A or B in a difficult course? 
Is it fair to the student who relies on his 
own cranial matter and getsfried by the 
high curve set by those who are naturally 
or notoriously talented?
The emphasis on grades at CMU is 
realized during the first week of freshman 
year. Joe Schmoe is told that when he is 
a senior he will impress his future employ
er if he has a 3.4 instead of a 3.0 in engi
neering. Joe obtains his 3.4 as he knows 
best.
Astounded professors might be anx
ious to know how or why their classes
cheat. Also, what is considered cheating? 
students were willing to fill them in: 
Leisa Babo(Senior Chem/AMS) I think 
the amount of cheating depends on the 
course level. I dont notice much cheating 
in upper level Chem courses, because of 
the class size and subject material. Ive 
noticed most cheating in larger classes, 
especially those which have multiple 
choice or matching-type tests. Its very 
easy to compare answers with the person 
right beside or in front of your.
John Golec(Senior CE) Cheating might 
be defined as taking an exam in an earlier 
section and handing it in during a later 
section, and also as discussing answers with 
the person next to you during a test. Ive 
noticed alot of this, especially in econom
ics and calculus classes. Alot of cheating 
stems from the profs who think that their 
course is the only one that is important 
(overloading homework and tests) or from 
the profs who set the pace far ahead of 
median students. Many profs give tests 
identical to those of past years, I found 
out the hard way in Biology.
Mike Nimen(Senior ME) I transferred 
to CMU after my sophomore year, and I 
immediately noticed the amount of cheat
ing here. The kind where two people sit 
together in all classes, the one pulling the 
other through the course by talking during 
the tests. Also, many students use refer
ences that arent permitted during tests, 
such as last years exam. If people are 
going to act like children, profs should
treat them that way, sitting them two 
seats apart, all books on the floor. .
Vicki Petti(Senior AMS/Math) I thinl 
cheating is taking someone elses answer 
on a test. A lot of students give their tesi 
to a friend to copy. Some even have peopU 
take their test for them. When I was takinj 
Physics, there was a problem of kids com 
ing into an earlier lecture and taking two 
hours to do a test. I know of a case during 
a final, two students exchanged answers in 
the bathroom. There should be much more 
monitoring during all tests, especially 
finals.
Jack Arturo(Senior AMS) Cheating is 
copying word for word what someone 
else has, which usually only happens when 
a student doesnt know what is going on 
Ive noticed most cheating in large lecture 
classes, where the profs shoved it in your 
face. People sat so close together that you 
would have had to wear blinders not to 
see other papers. I also think that doing 
group homework and getting last year 
work is not fair to other students, espe 
daily commuters. Computing 15-104 is 
mass of cheatingcopying programs. I can 
say that I didnt cheat in computing and 
my grade showed it.
(Senior Tech. Writ.) I think cheating 
is a necessity here. Maybe the simplest 
form of cheating is passing answers on 
calculators. I knew a group of students 
who did this for three semesters in Physics 
and Calculus. Roommates taking identical 
courses decide who will particularly study
continued on page 4
A good grade
is within your grasp.
Find out how next week. That's when you'll 
be getting Insidera free magazine supplement to your college 
newspaper Its another better idea from Ford.
Insider'' can't promise a Phi Beta Kappa key. but it might provide 
the key to better grades. The subject of next week's 
"Insider" is "Tactics and Strategies: An Exam Planner"
Watch for it!
Look for InsiderFord's continuing series of college newspaper supplements.
FORD DIVISION
75ANNIVERSARY

---------------------------------------------------

page * i ak i anJanuary 24, 1978
Students 
expose 
cheating
continued from page 3
one course and will cheat off of each other 
in all five courses. I knew two people who 
had 3.5s that way.
Diana Hulik(Junior BSc) I dont see 
much cheating in my upper level classes(the copy-the-test-type of cheating). My 
classes are too small. When I took Chem 
Lab, most kids got labs from previous 
years, freely given out by upperclassmen.
Marty Sohovich (Junior AMS) I think 
cheating happens easily because of what 
this school values and because of pressure. 
Schools such as Cal Tech have a stricter 
honor code, but I dont know if that 
would work at CMU.
Edna Stern (Sophomore Design) A lot 
of people cheat in design by ripping off 
present designs or going through maga
zines copying designs, and changing the
color. Some students also wont put up 
anything on the wall for a crit, and just 
jot down other designs. Someone got an A 
for that last semester.
Steve Breeden(Sophomore AMS/Econ) 
Ive noticed a lot of cheating on econtests, especially due to the strict cut-off 
points some profs have. Many times test 
questions force people into cheating, they 
are so ambiguous. Ive taken both regular 
and self-paced Calculus courses, and 
there is a 75% difference in cheating. 
Students use units as open book tests. 
Tutors also have friends and give them 
breaks.
(Freshman AMS) Ive noticed that the 
better students will cheat more often. 
There are also some recitations in calc 
where the teaching assistant will practical
ly give away the test. Certain counselling 
organizations have tutors who also make 
up the tests, which is not fair to those 
students who are not being tutored.
(Freshman EE)  I was appalled at the 
amount of cheating going on at a supposed
ly good school. I had someone cheat off of 
me in calc II, it really made me mad. I 
guess students who cheat are just des
perate.Should professors take measures to 
eliminate cheating in their classrooms, 
at least the blatant cheating which is no
ticed by many students?
Cheating, Part II will have the other side 
of the picture: how professors view the 
cheating problem and what they have done 
to prevent cheating, and recent University 
Committee on Discipline cases of cheating
Snatch the pebble
m
The odds are against you.Youve got to light all those distractions on your mind.Chores. Worries. Deadlines. Gnawing away at your concentration. Pulling you in a thousand different directionsInstead oi one
The sad part is, youve lived with these distractions so long, you probably dont realize how much theyre harting you.
At the CMU Karate Club, 
well help you to push aside the mental chatter; and to fuse your mind and body 
into a single responsive unit.Well show you a side of yourself 
you might never otherwise know.We offer you the chance.
Reach for it.
The CMU Karate Club
Beginners'classes will continue until Jan. 26.
Practice is held in Thistle Hall every Tuesday and Thursday, 6:30 pm. and Saturday, lls30 am.

---------------------------------------------------

GEORGE BASALLA  PROFESSOR OF THE HISTORY OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE THE IRON CLAD AGREEMENT  PITTSBURGHS OWN REPERTOIRE THEATRE COMPANY.
JANUARY 25  3:30 P.M. Scaife Hall ENERGY: Societys changing attitudes and uses  a lecture and slide presentation.
7:30 p.m. Wherrett Room ON ENERGY  Excerpts from The Guilded 
Age of Invention.
JANUARY 26  3:30 P.M. Wherrett Room TECHNOLOGY: Its effects on the development of movies as an art form. A lecture/discussion.
7:30 p.m. Wherrett Room EASTMAN  A dramatization on the life of George Eastman, pioneer of photography.
C/?(J 5 X
MECHANIZATION OF THE ARTS

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
How the Trustees 
are different from 
you and me
Heres to CMU students! They work hard, study hard, 
and play hard. And, contrary to critics who bemoan the end 
of the sixties and wail long and loud about student apa
thy,  CMU students are not apathetic. Like other students 
of the seventies, they are concerned with getting good jobs 
and things other than the Viet Nam War and like causes that 
students of the sixties rallied around.
Conversations with members of three organized activi
ties confirm that students are alive and active here. Paul 
Schoff, President of the newly-formed Law Club, says that 
the organization is shaping up well and their recent Wed
nesday night meeting drew a respectable turnout. Fifteen 
to twenty people, Schoff added, signed up during the 
Winter Activities Fair.
Things could be better at WRCT, according to General 
Manager Mike Herron, but the people who are involved are 
a dedicated, hard-working group. Hes proud that WRCT 
attracts a mix of people, from Fine Arts, H&SS, CIT; 
long-hairs, short-hairs; blacks, whites, men, women: all 
with different interests and different tastes in music.
Cindy Castellana, Treasurer of Activities Board, speaks 
enthusiastically about her organization, while agreeing 
with Herron A B could use more students. But the organi
zation itself is flourishing, Castellana says, progressive in 
its thinking and constantly trying out new things.
These are only three of the forty organizations listed in 
the 1977-78 Directory of Student Activities. Evidently, 
CMU students-some, at leastdo more than study and 
attend classes.
But its true about political apathy on campus. Our 
recent Rhodesian Affair, an affair with international rami
fications, saw very little student participation. No, political 
and social concerns are not CMU students immediate 
concerns.
There is nothing wrong with this fact, though. Such con
cerns will come in time, when we are older and in the real 
world. Members of the Board of Trustees, which met on 
January 16, displayed concerns of a larger scope; concerns 
that students may look forward to acquiring when older.
For example, the Trustees were generally enthusiastic 
that so few faculty members were given tenure this past 
yearthats a healthy chunk of money saved. They are not 
*concerned, as students are, that such a practice results in 
more part-time teachers and graduate students teaching 
courses that should be taught by full-time professors.
Another example contrasting the Trustees larger perspec
tive with the students smaller concerns came out when cam
pus security was discussed. The Trustees were upset to 
learn of the rape in Donner Hall, certainly, but when Dean 
Swank mentioned that Donner Hall residents afterwards 
voted not to have their doors locked, a restrained titter rif
fled through the crowd. Rapes, it seems, rank low in impor
tance in the real world.
A third demonstration of the difference between students 
concerns and Trustees concerns occured during discussion 
of the campus housing shortage, which is a dire problem. 
Webster Hall has been sold and is no longer available to 
CMU students, and the new dorm wont be ready before 
January of 1979. Our Trustees (officially) recognized the 
problem and offered their prayers. Thank you, Trustees, 
and may God bless you too.
No, the Trustees are not concerned with the same things 
that students are concerned with. Then again, somebodys 
got to balance the budget. This appears to be the Trustees  
major concern, and an admirable concern it is. For while 
CMU is, to students, merely a place to learn, it is to the 
Board of Trustees a business, with profit margins, 
benefits, and other such things. Students can rest assured 
that while they are involved in their studies and activities, 
the Trustees are busy making sure CMU is running 
smoothly.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
Law Club replies 
Editor:
While I deeply appreciate the 
interest the TARTAN has taken in 
the CMU Law Club, I was dis
appointed when I realized that 
a few important points were 
omitted from the article ap
pearing in your 1/17 issue. The 
first and most important fact 
concerns our function in con
junction with Professor Thomas 
Kerrs position as the pre-law 
advisor at CMU. The CMU Law 
Club is not nor plans to be in 
the future, a substitute for Pro
fessor Kerr with respect to his 
pre-law counselling capacity here 
at CMU. Although part of what
we do entails providing infor
mation pertaining to law and 
law schooling to the general 
campus, we will always refer 
students seriously considering 
law school to Professor Kerr 
(who incidentally happens to be 
the Clubs faculty advisor).
Another point I would like to 
stress is that our organization is 
not limited to students seeking 
admission to law school. We en
courage any and all CMU stu
dents, faculty and employees 
with an interest in law or lawrelated work to join the club. 
With the exception of these 
pieces of information I found 
the article to be both infor
mative and interesting, thanks 
TARTAN.
Paul Schoff
CMU sissies
Editor:
I have come to the conclusion 
that the vast majority of CMU 
students, faculty and other as
sorted employees are sissies. The
idea behind the TARTAN is 
freedom of speech yet people 
in letters to the editor do not 
have enough respect for their 
own opinions to put their names 
by them! Probably, if the authors 
life would be endangered (or even 
the almighty Q.P.A.) I could 
understand this philosophy. So 
far, I havent seen very many of 
these unsigned articles. Last week, 
people were afraid of their (con
troversial??) opinions of a radio 
show, a TARTAN article, and 
plastic cups from Skibo. The two 
letters taking this much read 
column from the sublime to the 
ridiculous were the unsigned 
letters mourning Humphreys 
death and the chicken hearted 
professor telling us that professors, 
are people too.
Whyor what are you afraid 
of??
Marilyn Schnell
P.S.: To the Occupants of
Boss 104, Marie Miller, David 
Klahr and Tom KerrI respect 
your opinions.
TARTAN
Volume 78January 24, 1978Number 16
Editor-in-Chief; 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Sherry Siegel 
Tim Shields 
Ellen J. Silverman
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
K.A. Yaksich 
Mike Jochmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Photography Staff: Skip Brazelton, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 5782111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more
11 
New Fall schedule
Editor:
A new schedule for Fall semes
ter classes and finals must be de
veloped. The lack of time last se
mester caused both students and 
professors problems, and as a re
sult the final exam in many 
courses was not the learning and 
grading aid it should have been, 
but a formality which was carried 
out as quickly and impersonally 
as possible.
Last fall 28 courses had exams 
scheduled to end at 8:30 PM De
cember 23rd. Those that took 
these finals and had hours of trav
el time between here and home 
were inconvenienced, which was 
a discourtesy not only to the 
students, but to their parents and 
relatives as well; thus many of the 
professors rescheduled the final 
for the last day of classes. Many 
rescheduled for other times. (My 
evening final on the 23rd took 
place on Sunday the 18th in the 
afternoon.) Some finals were 
dropped altogether or became 
optional. More than once I heard 
complaints about extention of 
class periods in order to finish 
finals or having three exams on 
the last day of classes (not to 
mention reports and papers), 
heading day(s), a period to 
prepare for finals, disappeared 
altogether due to a lack of time 
and rescheduled finals.
In order to leave more time for 
reading days and finals in coming 
years, I have three solutions, 
none of which I prortiise td be 
pbptilat.Dfii Ti y,i
ftiV9 10l biuoy/ 3Hi
Classes could start earlier, thus 
giving more time for the classes 
and finals.
Reading days and finals could 
happen after Christmas (some 
other universities use this plan).
CMU could weight the semes
ters unevenly (i.e., a 40-unit fall 
semester in 12 weeks and a 60- 
unit semester in 18 weeks; or 
40-unit fall and spring semesters 
with a 20 unit winter term).
Something should be done 
even if it means reinterpreting 
what is desired from finals and 
developing an alternative.
William Hunter
Heavy question
Editor:
There is a question that has 
been pressing heavily on my 
mind ever since I entered this 
esteemed university. Is the cash
iers office function to help 
students with their financial af
fairs, or simply to see that we all 
pay our tuition? I have been 
under the impression that the 
former is true. I am" beginning 
to seriously doubt my beliefs.
To begin with, we are not 
informed of what goes on in the 
cashiers office. At least, I was 
never told that state grant money 
would not be given to the re
ceiving students until 10 days 
after registration. I was sick in 
bed during registration. Even so, 
I dont think they would have 
told me when I was to receive 
my money. Last semester, the 
office told me that I was not to 
receive it, but that the money 
went straight to the university
as part of my tuition. Two 
months later, I received a letter 
from Financial Aid, telling me 
that, yes, I was to receive the 
money. Chalk one up for the 
cashiers office.
Of course, the cashiers office 
promptly denied' it. But the 
problem lay within the state 
(as is more often than not the 
case) and was quickly straight
ened out. Again, the cashiers 
office denied it. For three weeks 
afterwards, the cashiers office 
denied it. I had to go back to 
Financial Aid and have one of 
the counsellors write me a note,, 
saying that the money really 
and truly was mine. I felt like an 
undercover agent trying to steal 
information. However, I received 
half of the money in the end, as 
promised.. .
If the cashiers office is to be 
a convenience for the students, 
then please, could it possibly, by 
any remote chance, be operated 
as such? And if it is only a branch 
of a branch of the financial 
affairs here, and not something 
the students can rely on as a 
medium for receiving money, 
could it please be clearly stated? 
I dont want to spend the rest of 
my years here feeling as if I have 
trampled on someones toes in 
obtaining my money. Id rather 
walk five blocks out of my way 
to Mellon Bank, or Pittsburgh 
National, to cash a check for free, 
than be hassled because I dont 
look like the same person on my
I.D. card. I mean, what else is 
the damned thing good for?
Perturbed and poor
Hold the Pickle...
Editor:
I hate Tartanburgers! I hate 
their stale buns!!! I hate the gritty
 bits that hide in the meat!!!!!
I hate them!! I hate them!! I hate 
them!! ^ dissatisfied student
Praise for professor
Editor:
There are many at CMU who are 
dedicated to teaching, but until 
this, my sixth term, I had never 
come across this dedication to the 
degree exhibited by Professor 
Sochatoff (English Dept.). The size 
of his Quest for Identity class 
was not overbearingly large, yet at 
Dr. Sochatoffs request, the class 
was split into two sections. I won
der how many other professors 
would act similarly, and teach the 
same class lesson for two consecu
tive hours. Apparently, he reasons 
that the benefit to be gained by 
?ach student, more than offsets 
the inconvenience to him.
Name withheld by request
A Summer suggestion 
Editor:
As the new year begins and 
once again I am plunged into 
the world of academia, I still 
carry with me the memory of 
what an exciting time this past 
summer was for me. Under a 
grant from the Massachusetts Au
dubon Society, I worked for the 
National Park Services Environ
mental Compliance Unit in their 
regional office in Boston. How 
did I land such an interesting
job, you ask?? Well it wasnt 
that difficultand the best part 
is that a program similar to the 
Mass. Audubon Societys is start
ing in the Lower Great Lakes 
Region. These two internship 
programs, along with another in 
California, are unique. Students 
with varied backgrounds are given 
opportunities to work in a variety 
of environmentally related jobs. 
Now dont count yourself out 
just because you are.a history or 
design major. I met interns work
ing for historical preservation so
cieties, planning firms, natural 
science centers and various wild
life preservation projects. The op
portunities are endless. My parti
cular job involved coastal zone 
land use mapping and resulted in 
a coastal zone land use atlas. It 
was really quite rewarding.
The program that is starting in 
this area is; The Lower Great 
Lakes Environmental Intern Pro
gram, Institute for Environmental 
Education, 8911 Euclid Ave., 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106.
If you are interested in the 
New England program, the address 
is: Massachusetts Audubon Soci
ety, Environmental Intern Pro
gram, Lincoln, Ma. 01773.
A word of advice about apply
ing...Apply early! (applications 
are available in March). Selection 
is competitive and there is a $5 
application fee, so think about 
what goes on your application! 
In retrospect though, that $5 was 
about the wisest investment that I 
have ever made.
Stuart Rehr
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Philosophy: A lecture by Mr. Kenneth
Ferguson of Cornell on the topic of 
"Philosophical Skepticism will be given 
at 4 PM, Wednesday, January 25 in Baker 
Hall, Room 246. The lecture is free and is 
open to the public.
AB Coffeehouse will present Chris O'Con
nor for an evening of mime and music 
on Friday, January 27 in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo at 9:30 PM. Admission 
is free and open to the campus community.
The City of Pittsburgh Department of
Parks and Recreation will be offering Life
guard Training and Aquatic Facility Man
agement. The course is designed to provide 
individuals with a background in Swim
ming Pool Operation an opportunity 
to earn an American Red Cross Advanced 
Lifesaving and Water Safety certification.
The Program is open to all persons at 
least 16 years of age by June 1, 1978.
Those who complete the 12-week 
course successfully and fill the necessary 
requirements a*e eligible for Civil Service 
Employment as lifeguards at the City of 
Pittsburgh swimming pools in the summer.
Included in the program are operation 
(theory) of swimming pool equipment, 
sanitation of pool water, organization and 
administration of guarding, programming 
activities, methods of lifesaving and re
suscitation, limited first aid procedures 
and guarding techniques.
Candidates must pass a required swim
ming test given the first night of class. 
They must also provide their own swim 
suits, notebooks, towels, pens and will 
be required to purchase or have access 
to required textbooks.
Registration for the courses can be 
made by calling Oliver Bathhouse at 4.3,L 
9650 or at the site the first night of class.
Help retarded children and at the same
time get $1.50 off each ticket for the 
Pittsburgh Penguins/Boston Bruins Hockey 
Game Saturday, February 4. The special 
night with the Penguins is being sponsored 
by St. Peter's Child Development Center, 
a preschool for developmental^ delayed 
and retarded children located in Oakland. 
Proceeds from the Penguins/Bruins game 
will go toward the Oakland Center where 
20 children are presently enrolled. Dis
count price tickets are available by calling 
St. Peter's Child Development Center at 
683-3880 or through the Penguins Ticket 
Office.
The Community Classes Division of Point
Park College will begin their Spring term 
on Thursday, February 2, 1978. Non
credit courses in Dance, Drama, Piano and 
Voice are available for children, teens, 
and adults in a fourteen week semester. 
For brochure and further information, call 
the Community Classes Division of the De
partment of Performing Arts at Point Park 
College at 391-4100. ext. 339.
The Jewish Faculty Discussion Group is
sponsoring a lecture followed by a dis
cussion on the topic " The Recent De
velopment in the Middle East  A Dif
ferent Point of View by Professor 
Richard W. Cottam. The lecture will 
be held Tuesday, January 24, at 8:15 PM 
in Skibo Hall, Room 105. All faculty 
members are welcome.
Inge Druckrey of Yale University will
speak on "Design Practice and Education 
a Personal View" on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 1 at 8:00PM in Science Hall 7500. 
This is the second of the series of Spring 
lectures sponsored by the CMU Depart-^ 
ment of Design.
"Wealth, Propertylessness, and the Wel
fare State: How Successful Programs Cre
ate Ignorant Policies will be discussed 
by Dr. Hugh Heclo, Senior Fellow, The 
Brookings Institution, on February 2, 
1978 at 4:00 PM in Baker Hall 231. 
Sponsored by the Graduate Program in 
Applied History and Social Science.
Prof. George Basalla, University of Dela
ware's outstanding historian of techno
logy, will be at CMU on January 25th 
and 26th. His lectures, "Energy and Civ
ilization (3:30 PM Scaife Lecture Hall) 
and "Mechanization of the Arts" (3:30 
PM Wherrett Room) will focus on tech
nology's effects on various aspects of soc
iety. On each evening, there will also be a 
related performance by the Iron Clad 
Agreement at 7:30 PM in the Wherrett 
Room.
The program is free and open to the 
public. Sponsored by Campus Program 
Planning and The Program in Technology 
and Humanities.
The CMU Alumni Association cordially in
vites you to attend the Wine and Cheese 
Reception and Senior Banquet on Satur
day, January 28, 1978 in Skibo. The re
reception will begin at 7:30, followed by 
the Banquet in the Cafeteria at 8:30. At 
10.00 the Dance in the Ballroom begins, 
featuring the band Full Deck. The Alumni 
Association will hold a drawing of prizes, 
including one set of two tickets to Monte 
Carlo, during the dance. Only seniors are 
eligible and the winner must be present. 
Dress is semi-formal. Tickets are available 
from the Alumni Office on the 5th floor 
9i.-tjU RSVP by Wednesday, 
January 25, 1978
All aliens in the United States must, with
a few exceptions, report their addresses 
to the Government each January. Forms 
for this purpose are available at any United 
States Post Office during the month of 
January. If you have friends who are not 
citizens, you will do both them and the 
government a great service by telling them 
of the requirements.
Helen O'Bannon will be discussing
"Women in the Working World, Women in 
Business on Wednesday, February 1 at 
8 PM in the Hunt Library Multi-Purpose 
Room. Ms. O'Bannon, formerly the Associ
ate Dean of CIT, is currently working for 
the Public Utilities Commission. This pre
sentation is sponsored by the Society of 
Women Engineers and the entire campus 
community is welcome to attend.
The United Mine Workers of America have
declared the week of January 29 to Feb
ruary 4 to be "Support the Miners Week 
in western Pennsylvania. The week will 
begin with a rally on Sunday, January 29 
at 3:00 PM in Soldiers and Sailors Memor
ial Hall in Oakland. Admission is free. On 
Wednesday, February 1, striking miners 
from Stearns, Kentucky will speak at the 
University of Pittsburgh and at the Com
munity College of Allegheny County. For 
more information call: 281-9300.
Pitt Bridge Club invites all interested CMU
students to participate in its weekly dupociate game, Tuesday evening at 7:30 
at the Pitt Student Union Sun Porch.
The Carnegie Institute begins their
Expedition to Excitement travel film series 
with The Grandeur of Spain which will be 
offered January 23 to 26 Call the Institute 
at 622-3314 for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS sSfe.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
PSI, Graduate School of Professional
Psychology. Applications are currently 
being accepted for our PhD program in 
Clinical-Counseling Psychology. Existen
tial-humanistic emphasis. State approved 
for professional license. Write for free 
brochure, current catalogue $1.00. Dr. 
George Muench, Director, Dr. Peter Koestenbaum, Dean. PSI College Avenue, Palo 
Alto, California, 94306.
Recycling can be a craft. Let the Creative
Recycling Center tell you how. The Center 
offers workshops now through May, teach
ing you how to make useful items out of 
industrial byproducts and discards. Courses 
offered include bookbinding, tubular fur
niture, classroom materials, creative 
clothes, dolls and soft toys, papermaking, 
plexiglass and many others. Come enjoy 
yourself and learn something new at the 
Creative Recycling Center in Bloomfield, 
4614 Liberty Avenue. Stop by Tuesday 
through Saturday 10-6 or call 687-0900 
for more information.
There will be Episcopalian prayer services 
given by Chaplain Jonathan Appleyard in 
Room 39 of Skibo every Monday at noon, 
Wednesday at noon, and Thursdays at 
1:00 PM.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
office hours for students, Tuesdays from 
1:30 to 3:30, in 260 Baker Hall.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the English
Country Dance and Song Society meets 
regularly to enjoy English and American 
folk dances the first, third and fourth Sun
days of each month from 7:30 to 9:30 in 
Room 524 of the Pitt Student Union 
Building. On second Sundays they meet 
from two to four hours in the second floor 
ballet studio at Point Park College.
Sunday, February 12, from 2-4 at Point 
Park College, the group will be holding an 
open house. Novices are particulary wel
come as we will be learning simple dances. 
Refreshments will be served.
Please join us and bring your friends!
scholarships awards prizes
Applications are being accepted by the
ROTC Department for 3, 2, and 1 year 
ROTC Scholarships. Applications may 
be picked up at the ROTC offices in 
Margaret Morrison Room B-5 (2d base
ment). Deadline is 1 Feb 78. These are 
full tuition scholarships.
Sophomores and juniors are eligible to
apply for the Book Prize sponsored by 
Mortar Board, CMU's senior honorary. This 
award will be given to a student whose 
studies demand the use of a particular but 
expensive book worth $75.00 or less that 
will aid him or her in the achievement of a 
professional goal. Details and applications 
are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk. Deadline for completed applications 
is 5 PM Monday February 13.
VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD
Women students who are currently com
pleting their junior year and who plan to 
study abroad in the summer between their 
junior and senior years are eligible to 
apply for the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL 
AWARD. This award provides $2500 to 
a woman student at Carneige-Mellon 
University through the Pittsburgh Foun
dation as a result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. 
Heinz, a trustee emerita. Application 
forms are available in Dean Cox's office, 
Room 204, Warner Hall. The deadline for 
submitting completed applications is 
January 31. Applicants will be requested 
to be present for an interview with the 
Selection Committee on February 15. The 
award will be announced immediately 
thereafter.
clubs
InterVarsity will meet at 7:00 PM on Wed
nesday, January 25, in Skibo Room 39. 
Bob Malone will give a talk entitled "Being 
a Whole Person (from a Christian Perspec
tive). All are invited to join in the prayer, 
singing, and fellowship.
The Computer Club, recently reorganized,
will hold its first general meeting on Wed
nesday, January 26, at 7:30 PM, in Room 
12 Skibo. Anyone with any interest in 
computing is welcome; no previous experi
ence or knowledge is necessary. We are es
pecially interested in people with micro 
experience (so to speak) and curious stu
dents in ndn-technical fields. See you 
there!
Female roommate wanted for co-ed
cooperative house. Own room, convenient C. 
location. $60/month, plus util. 521-7072.
BW: You are an honest-to-God schmuck.
Name withheld by request.
Help Wanted: For Mother John's Pizza
kitchen help and drivers-evenings and 
weekends632-6755
Original Wedding Bands: Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458. Diamonds.
Woman wanted to share 2 bedroom Shadyside apartment year round. $150 a month. 
665-,1505.
Squirrel HillBartlett Near MurrayRen
tal 3 to 4 students2 bedroom, large liv
ing, kitchen, 2 baths, private entrance, off 
street parking (2), near theatres, shopping, 
laundry, convenient to bus, restaurant, 
utilities. Immediate occupancy. Call Mr. 
Jim Quinn 462-7316.
Typing in my homecall 243-3029 after
6 PM.
Alone and pregnant? A confidential, caring
friend, Lifeline, 341-3322. Free pregnancy 
testing.
Ty ping-proof reading-Selectric. Symbols,
italics, elite, pica. Work guaranteed. 
734-1331. No answer-761-8584.
GONEMy winter coat (tan with white
trim) disappeared from the E&S Library 
last Tuesday night, January 17. I would 
appreciate its return. Please leave it hanging 
in the Kiltie Cafe.
Florian's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna Super
haircutting for girls and guys. 15% Dis
count for college students. 1831 Murray 
Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 Call: 521- 
9900.
TARJNin
Oakland Review,
Carnegie-Mel Ions Magazine of the Arts, 
is now soliciting manuscripts.
Poetry, Fiction, Essays,
Criticisms, Plays, Translations.
Typed manuscripts should be submitted to
The Oakland Review c/o English Office
or Skibo Information Desk.
Include stamped, self-addressed envelope
for return.
Deadline: February 15, 1978
r-i
 \ ft r\ < ^ O'^ ft /> .p *<> \ ^
* \\% ** % % ^ V?
/>

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1978TARTANpage 9
SECURITY NOTES:
Preventative measures deter criminals
by Michael Corletti
In light of the recent rise in crime on 
campus, and especially after the December 
23 rape in Donner Hall, it is important to 
think prevention and deter crime.
The basic preventive measures that we 
can practice to help provide for our per
sonal safety are probably the most 
effective to deter criminal occurrences. 
Personal safety must be the concern of 
jveryone and not just those individuals 
responsible for law enforcement services. 
Therefore, it is important that personal 
safety becomes a state of mind.
Are preventive measures effective? Re
cently, a resident student at Morewood 
Gardens immediately called Security when 
she observed several persons exit her room 
upon her return. This enabled Security 
to respond immediately and apprehend 
two persons who were subsequently 
charged with theft.
During the past year, the alertness 
and quick action of two female students 
was effective against two separate incidents 
of assault. Each of the students immediate
ly fled the scene and ran to the nearest 
safe area when approached and called for 
help. In each case, the assailant fled. 
Security was then notified and took 
further preventive measures in the areas 
involved.
Approximately one month ago, a stu
dent used a Campus Security emergency 
Phone to alert Security about an illegal act 
in progress. This immediate notification 
enabled Security to apprehend the man, 
who has been held in criminal court.
The following list of preventive mea
sures and practices were selected because 
of their value in providing personal safety. 
A review of reported crimes against persons 
indicates the absence of these basic safe
guards as contributing factors.
Walk in well-lighted areas after dark and 
try to be in the company of others when
ever possible.
Don't take 'short cuts' by using side 
streets, parking lots, or other secluded 
areas. Use the most commonly travelled 
walkways and streets.
If you feel that you are being followed, 
immediately change your direction and 
seek help. If necessary, walk to the nearest 
residence and call the Police.
Be aware of individuals approaching 
you, especially after dark who obvi
ously ask 'phony' questions about change
for large bills, street directions, and help 
with a disabled vehicle parked in the 
next block, etc. Dont fall for the con 
game.
Always lock your dorm room when
unattended . . . even for a very short
time. Be certain that you lock your 
dorm when retiring at night, and
when you are alone.
Personal assaults do occur; if you are ap
proached, attempt to get away as 
quickly as possible. Run for the near
est safe place; attract attention of 
others by calling for help. If you are 
a victim of an assault, be certain to 
report the incident to Security as
soon as possible.
Report persons who you may feel are 
unauthorized on campus . . . those 
individuals we often observe going 
from room to room, asking for fic
titious persons, etc. CALL SECURI
TY so Officers can be sent to identi
fy these persons.
Report losses as soon as possible even 
though you may feel the possibility of 
recovery is remote. We can't investigate 
what is not reported, and more 
importantly, incidents which are ignored 
increase the possibility of reoccurences by 
encouraging a 'thief' to return.
Report losses of keys immediately. Keys 
are easily reproduced. Many reported 
office thefts indicate no forced entry and 
a locked door condition at the time of 
occurence. If you feel it is necessary, 
initiate lock change requests immedi
ately.
Report conditions which you feel
may be a fire and safety hazard. Im
proper storage of flammable material
poorly lighted areas, unsafe walk
ways, blocked stairwells, lack of fire
extinguishers, water leaks, faulty
electrical outlets, etc.
Report incidents to Security as soon as 
possible. Now! Not the next day or 
even the next hour. CALL IMMEDI
ATELY.
OUR CAMPUS EXTENSION IS
2323 . . . CALL IF THE NEED 
ARISES.
Michael Corletti is Director of Campus 
Security.
SCIENCE NEWSAnalyzer aids sickle cell anemia research
by David Sochol
It makes us very competitive with 
other leading laboratories in the field of 
protein structure and analysis, com
mented Dr. William Brown of the Depart
ment of Biological Sciences, about his 
automated amino aicd analyzer.
Last fall, Brown received a special 
$72000 National Science Foundation grant 
to obtain the machine, which is capable 
of determining the amino acid 
composition of proteins and cell extracts.
Although a very complex piece of 
machinery, the operation of the analyzer 
is quite simple. Upon being given a protein, 
the instrument separates it and then iden
tifies specific sections of that protein. 
Users can then study those sections that 
interest them.
Browns research is concentrated pri
marily on the structural studies of hemo
globin and specifically hemoglobin S 
which is the abnormal hemoglobin involved 
in sickle cell anemia, a crippling and often 
fatal disease common to black people.
The molecular structure of hemoglobin 
found in sickled cells is slightly different 
from that of normal red blood cells. This 
difference, caused by the presence of 
hemoglobin S, produces sickling of tne cel! 
(the sickled shape). Brown hopes to design 
a way to prevent red blood cells from 
sickling through the use of his amino acid 
analyzer.
The instrument will also aid Brown in 
his research of the abnormalities occuring 
in immunoglobulins (proteins which serve
as antibodies). He is concerned with how 
these defects result in change in ones 
ability to ward off diseases.
His work has applications to the field 
of preventive medicine. Besides seeking a 
way to prevent red blood cells from 
sickling, Brown also hopes to build 
reagents that will correct any flaws that 
appear in ones disease defense mecha
nisms.
When Brown first came to CMU, he felt 
that the Biological Sciences Department 
desperately lacked a strong protein analysis 
laboratory. This amino acid analyzer it 
the first in a series of equipment Brown 
hopes to bring to the University. He feels 
that such research tools will allow Carnegie 
Mellon to gain eminence in the fields of 
protein analysis and immunochemistry.
Browns request for the grant was co
authored with Chies Ho of the University 
of Pittsburgh. Although the analyzer is 
maintained at the Carnegie-Mellon Institute 
of Research (CMIR), the research arm of 
CMU, it will be shared by ten other profes
sors from Pitt and CMU who are all in
volved in some aspect of protein analysis.
To insure the operation and mainte
nance of the instrument for at least two 
years, each school has donated $10,000. 
Brown commented, This joint effort 
shows how beneficial cooperation between 
universities can be; for I doubt that this 
grant would have been possible without the 
support and involvement of the other 
professors.
INSIDE WASHINGTON-----
Student intern pays tribute to Humphrey
Half a lion remains standing on the SAE steps, its mate secure in SAE's basement after a 
Friday night theft of one lion's head by fraternal culprits.
by Frederic Siegel
He should have been President but 
Hubert Humphrey didnt need the office to 
prove what a truly outstanding leader he 
was. As a dominant figure in liberal demo
cratic politics for 30 years, Hubert Humph
rey with his wit and wisdom reached more 
hearts and minds than many a President. 
Hubert Humphrey was one of those rare 
individuals who came along in politics with 
an unprecedented amount of courage, per
sonal self-determination and selflessness. 
He was an honest man who spoke for all 
people, regardless of race, religion or social 
status.
Although I have only been in Washington 
for a few days, it is not difficult to see why 
Hubert Humphrey loved this city so. The 
physical beauty is boundless and as I view
ed the coffin of the late Senator at the 
Capital Rotunda I could see why the Hill 
meant so much to him. The beauty amidst 
the Capital is so hypnotic it is almost sense
less to try to describe it in words or show it 
in photographs. Despite the cold of the day, 
the Capital emits a certain everlasting 
brightness; a brightness that was inherent 
in the soul ofthe Happy Warrior.
Hubert Humphrey has done more for 
this country than any President since 
Roosevelt. He taught the country the 
meaning of detemiination, of human dig
nity and gracefulness. From the moment of 
his illness to the end. Senator Humphrey 
believed and worked for the dreams of 
others. He fought to make others well 
while his physical condition deteriorated 
daily. He taught the numerous temporary 
occupants of the White House and Con
gress how to win and lose, and more 
importantly, how to laugh and cry. As I
witnessed the return of past Presidents 
Ford and Nixon I could not help but feel 
that Hubert Humphrey died a peaceful 
man with at least some of his countless 
dreams fulfilled. Hearing the timely words 
of Vice President Mondale, I realized that 
Senator Humphrey is not that far away be
cause he will always serve as a hopeful, 
everlasting memory. As I witnessed the 
precision that was evident during the 
changing of the Honor Guard, 1 noticed 
that Senator Humphrey never really under
stood the meaning of that word. His life 
could never be described as precise but it 
was nevertheless meaningful and forever 
significant. In 1968, when he narrowly 
missed the one office he aspired to but 
never won; his loss taught a very valuable
lesson to our country. Humphrey through
out his career demonstrated what leaders 
should be and what they could be.
The following words more than any 
demonstrate the kind of individual that 
Senator Humphrey was. So amidst the 
shortfalls and the disappointments, I am 
the one who continues to believe that 
the struggle is worth it. I dont believe in 
throwing in the towel. 1 dont believe in 
giving up. I dont believe in quitters. 
Senator Humphrey, a personal hero of 
mine for many years, taught us that 
individuals have a responsibility to try 
We all must work and show courage to 
succeed in those dreams which really 
mean something. This city that I have 
grown to love in such a short time will 
never be the same. Washington and the 
America that he helped to create has lost 
a true hero. Washington and the whole 
world will miss your love, determination 
and humanity, Hubert Humphrey.

---------------------------------------------------

page 10-TAR TAN-January 24, 1978
Students lunch with top administrators
by Belinda Quan
I went to a random lunch today, 
one student recently stated. Many people 
may be wondering just what a random 
lunch is.
Random lunches are called that be
cause 15 students are chosen at random 
from the registration list or the C-Book to 
have lunch with an administration of
ficial.
President Richard Cyert began the pro
gram four years ago at Dean Earl Swanks 
suggestion. Cyert tries to include students 
from different classes and colleges at his 
lunches. The students who are chosen at
"Cyert wanted direct 
contact with students"
random to lunch with Cyert receive written 
invitations for the lunches, held once a 
month in the Presidents dining room in 
Skibo. Other officials hold similar lunches 
in the same format.
Cyert began having the lunches be
cause he wanted direct contact with stu
dents, said Dr. Richard Van Horn, Vice 
president of business affairs. It is an es
cape from the filtering of information 
that usually occurs when student con
cerns are related from faculty to adminis
tration.
Fileno Alieva, a sophomore in math
ematics, attended one of Cyerts lunches 
last November. According to Alieva, 
Cyert first questioned the students about 
academic affairs and in the open discus
sion afterwards, several students com
plained about housing. He [Cyert] 
did not have any feedback, Fileno com
mented, he sort of listened.
Although Cyert does not offer any im
mediate solutions to the students indiv
idual problems, the lunches have famil
iarized him with more general problems. 
According to Van Horn, Cyert became in
terested in the quality of AMS teaching 
after several students voiced their con
cerns.
The clarification of the housing policy, 
a few years ago, was also an outcome of 
the random lunches. The policy stated 
that freshman had priority in access to 
housing.
The lunch was fairly informal, 
Alieva stated, and the menu included 
brisket of beef, clam soup, asparagus, and 
carrots.
The success at Cyerts random lunch 
program has encouraged Van Horn and 
.other deans to start similar programs 
of their own.
Dean Dan Berg feels that contact with 
students is good because he gets feedback 
on how his college is doing and he receives 
s,nme good suggestions from the students.
Mary Jane Lewis, a freshman in drama
went to one of Dean Swanks lunches last
"He did not have 
any feedback"
fall. She thought that the lunch was a nice 
geture on the part of the administration. 
Dean Swank seemed interested, she 
said, we were asked everything under the 
sun. But I dont think he was going to do 
anything about the problems [which were 
brought up]
For example, Lewis commented on the 
poor lighting on the large staircase on the 
side of Skibo. Since that time, nothing has 
been done. However, the lunch was 
nice and the food much better than 
Skibos, Lewis added.
 Iron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES 
PIZZA SERVED TIL 3 AMSpecialty Items:
Hot DogsChoice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOT 006 SHOPS, INC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
These parking meters behind Hunt Library and GSIA were buried in knee-deep snow last week.
(jour
loins...
Mu GOD , UJH AT A ME Si! 
Mr EkiTIRE ACCOUfJTlfjCVEPT. <rusr mExp edpi m7 
31 HRS. OU4 BIG6Sr CLIEMTMWA
bu e tpxoepnc
IVVVVHW mlmW m *.'I

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT ACTIVITIES SPRIN
CENTREX LISTINGS 1978
. I

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY
MWTh
12345
0)7
89
Enrollment
10
Spring semester classes begin
1112
Activities Fair 12-6 BR
Fine Arts Film DH2210 
6, 8, 10 "Casablanca"
13
1
AB Movie DH2210
6:30, 9, 11:30 "Network"
14
TGIF "Earthchild" 
Saturday Night Special
15
'Super Bowl
1617
TARTAN
18

19
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "A Man for All 
Seasons"
20
AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 
"Silver Streak"
Ski Trip
21
Hockey vs. St. Vincent 
Civic Arena 3:00
Basketball at Hiram 8:00
SDC Movie DH2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "A Funny 
Thing Happened on the Way 
to the Forum"
22
Marcel Marceau
Hockey vs. Penn State 
McKeesport at Greensburg 
9:00 PM
2324
Lecture
"Subliminal Seduction 
BR 8:00 PM
TARTAN
25
Basketball at Theil 8:00 PM
Women's Basketball at Theil 
6.00 PM
26
Gourmet Cooking 
Morewood Piano Room
Tax Program
Morewood Ree Room 7:30 
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 9 "Dr. Zhivago"
27
Last day to apply tor 
RA positions 
Yoga demonstration 
Hamerschlag Lounge, 7:30
AB Movie DH 2210
6, 8, 10, 12 "Nasty Habits"
Coffeehouse WR 9:30 PM 
Chris O'Connor
Senior Banquet 
Hockey vs. Cleveland Civic 
Arena 1:00PM
Basketball vs. John Carroll * 
Home 2 PM
TGIF Dance " Full Deck" 
10 PM BR
SDC Movie " Who's Afraid 
of Virginia Woolf? DH2210 
6, 8:30, II
29
Hockey vs. Penn State 
McKeesport at Civic Arena 
100 PM
30
Final Date to add/drop 
su bjects
31
TARTAN
First Musical dessert 
Donner Lobby 6:30 PM
*
DONNER HALL
RmEx.Rm.Ex.
100...........................4000101.................. 4001
102...........................4002103................. 4003
104.................. 4004105.............____ 4005
106...........................4006107................. 4007
108........................... 4008109.............____ 4009
110...........................4010111................. 4011
112.................. 4012113................. 4013
114...........................4014115................. 4015
117...........................4016126................. 4017
128...........................4018129................. 4019
130. ....................4020131................. 4021
132........................... 4022133.............____ 4023
134...........................4024135.............____ 4025
136...........................4026137.............____ 4027
138........................... 4028139................. 4029
141............................4030201.................. 4031
202...........................4032203...........____ 4033
204...........................4034205............... 4035
206...........................4036207...........____ 4037
208............................4038209............... 4039
210...........................4040211............... 4041
212........................... 4042213................. 4043
214...........................4044215.................. 4045
217...........................4046218..............____ 4047
219........................... 4048221.................. 4049
222...........................4050223.................. 4051
225........................... 4052226.................. 4053
227........................... 4054228.................. 4055
229........................... 4056230.................. 4057
231........................... 4058232................. 4059
233...........................4060234..............____ 4061
235...........................4062236.................. 4063
237...........................4064238..............____ 4065
239...........................4066241................. 4067
241...........................4067301.................. 4068
302. ....................4069303.................. 4070
304........................... 4071305.................. 4072
306........................... 4073307................. 4074
308........................... 4075309.................. 4076
310. ....................4077311.................. 4078
312........................... 4079313................. 4080
314...........................4081315.................. 4082
317...........................4083318.................. 4084
319...........................4085321.................. 4086
322...........................4087323................. 4088
325...........................4089326.................. 4090
327...........................4091328..............____ 4092
329.................. 4093330.................. 4094
331...........................4095332.................. 4096
333........................... 4097334.................. 4098
335...........................4099336.................. 4100
337...........................4101338................. 4102
339.................4103341.................. 4104
A-1...........................4105A-2.................. 4106
A-3...........................4107A-4.................. 4108
A-5...........................4109A-6.................. 4110
A-7...........................4111A-8.................. 4112
A-9...........................4113A-10............... 4114
y
Til

---------------------------------------------------

FEBRUARY
SMWTh
V* *1
Basketball vs. Bethany 
Home 8:00 PM
Women's Basketball vs. 
Robert Morris 6:00 PM
2
Fencing at IVP Tourney 
(Women) 3:00 PM
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
"Magician
3
Ski Trip Mudge Hall
AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 "3 Women"
Coffeehouse  Cafe 
Gene Corbin
Hockey vs. Indiana 
Civic Arena 1:00 PM 
Winter Festival 
Free skating at Schenley 
Park 10:00
Basketball at Allegheny 
8:00 PM
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Bugsy Malone"
567
TARTAN
8
Basketball vs. W&J 
Home 8:00 PM
Women's Basketball vs. 
Seton Hill Home 6:00
9
Fencing at Penn State 
6:00 PM
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 9, "Judgement at Nurem
berg"
10
AB Movie DH 2210
6, 8, 10, 12 "Fun with Dick
and Jane"
SDC Valentine's Day SemiFormal Dance "Silver Fox" 
9:00 PM BR
Fencing vs. St. Mary's 
II Home 2:00 PM 
1 1 Women's Basketball vs.
Carlow Home 12:00 Swimming vs. Case-Western 
Home 2:00 PM 
Basketball vs. Hiram 2:00 PM 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6,3:30, 11 "Sugarland 
Express"
Concert: Kenny Rankin & 
Steve Goodman 
Carnegie Music Hall
12
Fencing CMU Intermediate 
Novice Tourney 
Home 10:00 AM
1314
TARTAN
15
Basketball vs. Washington & 
Jefferson Home 7:00 
Basketball at John Carroll 
8:00 PM
16
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "A Streetcar 
Named Desire"
17
Women's Basketball at 
Robert Morris 7:00 PM
AB presents "Schlitz Orgy" 
8:00 PM BR
^ Hockey vs. Duquesne 
Civic Arena 8:00 PM 
Basketball at Case-Western 
8:00 PM
Fencing vs. Case-Western 
Home 1:00 PM 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Gypsy" 
Coffeehouse 9:30 WR 
"Mantle"
19
SDC officer elections
20
Second musical dessert 
Morewood Lobby 6:30 PM
Basketball vs. Cal State 
Home 8:00 PM
Roots 1 11:30 AM WR
21
TARTAN
22
Roots 2
Basketball vs. Theil 
Home 8:00 PM
Women's Basketball vs. Cal 
State Home 6:00 PM
23
Roots 3
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8, 10 "Clowns"
Hockey vs. Indiana at 
Belmont. 8:30 PM 
Women's Basketball vs.
Point Park, Home 7:00 PM 
Fencing vs. Cal State 
Home 6:00 PM
24
GSIA 3rd mini ends
Basketball at Bethany 
8:00 PM
AB Movie DH 2210
6, 8, 10, 12 "Cinderella"X
25
Hockey at Cleveland State 
5:00 PM
Swimming at Allegheny 
1:00 PM
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 'The Last Detail'
26
L
27
Mid-semester grades due 
8:30 AM
Roots 4
February Break No Classes
28
TARTAN
A-1 1 . . . .................4115A-12............ ... 4116
A-13 . . . .................4117A-14............ ... 4118
A-15. . . .................4119A-17............ . . . 4120
A-25. . . .................4121A-26............ ... 4122
A-27....................4123A-28............ ... 4124
A-29....................4125A-30............ ... 4126*
A-31 ....................4127A-33............ . . . 4128
A-34 ....................4129A-35............ . . . 4130
A-36....................4131A-37............ . . . 4132
A-38....................4133
................4135
DOHERTY
A-39............ . . . 4134
A-40A-41...........
HOUSE
4136
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
A-B........................... 4234A-1.................. 4238
I A-2........................... 4239A-3.............. . . . 4240
A-4........................... 4241A-5............... . . .4242
; A-6...........................4243A-7............... . . . 4244
A-8...........................4245A-9.............. . . . 4246
A-10. . . .................4247A-11............ . . . 4248
A-23.................... 4249B-B............... . . . 4235
B-1........................... 4250B-2.............. . . . 4251
B-3...........................4252B-4.............. . . . 4253
B-5........................... 4254B-6.............. . . . 4255
B-7.........................4256B-8.............. . . . 4257
B-9.........................4258B-10............ . . . 4259
B-rr.. . ............... 4260B 12............ . . . 4261
B-13 ..................4262B-14............ . . . 4263
C-B......................... 4236C-1.............. . . . 4264
C-2.........................4265C-3.............. . . . 4266
C-4......................... 4267C-5.............. . . . 4268
C-6......................... 4269C-7............... . . . 4270
C-8......................... 4271C-9............... . . . 4272
C-10......................... 4273C-11............ . . . 4274
C-12 .................. 4275C-13............ . . . 4276
C-24......................... 4277D-B............... . .4237
D-1............................ 4278D-2. ...... . . 4279
D-3............................ 4280D-4............... . . 4281
D-5............................4282D-6............... . . 4283
D-7............................ 4284D-8............... . . 4285
D-9............................4286D-10............ . . 4287
D-11.........................4288D-12............ . . 4289
D-14......................... 4290
MCGILLHALL
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
100......................... 4625101............... . . . 4626
102......................... 4627103............... . . . 4628
104......................... 4629106............... . . . 4630
107......................... 4631108............... . . . 4632
110......................... 4633111.............. . . . 4634
200......................... 4635201............... . . . 4636
202......................... 4637203............... . . . 4638
204......................... 4639206.............. . . . 4640
207......................... 4641208.............. . . . 4642
210......................... 4643211................ . . 4644
300.........................4645301.............. . . . 4646
302......................... 4647303............... . . . 4648
304......................... 4649306.............. . . . 4650
307......................... 4651308............... . . . 4652
310.........................4653311..............4654

---------------------------------------------------

MARCH
SMTWThF S
1
Women's Basketball vs. 
Bethany Home 7:00 PM
Roots 5
oRoots 6 
GSIA 4th mini begins
Fencing vs. Indiana 
Home 6:00 PM
Swimming - PAC Cham
pionships at John Carroll
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Citizen Kane"
3
PAC Swimming Champion
ships at John Carroll 
Casino Night
Morewood Cafe 8:30-1:00 
Jazz TGIF Grill 12-3 AM 
AB Movie BR 8:00 PM 
"Gone With the Wind"
Ji Fencing Couples Tournament Home 10:00 AM 
PAC Swimming Champion
ships at John Carroll 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "From Russia 
with Love"
Coffeehouse with Jim 
Ritchey and BJ Fleming 
SDC Semi-Formal Dance
5678
f
o>1011Greek Swing
Hockey vs. St. Vincent 
Civic Arena 9:00Roots 7
TARTAN
Women's Basketball at 
Washington & Jefferson 
6:00 PM
Roots 8
Fencing at Cal State 
6:00 PM
Hair demonstration for 
black hair  Soul Scissors/ 
John's of Shadyside 
Roots 9
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Meet Me in St. 
Louis"
Greek Sing 
AB Movie DH 2210 
6, 8, 10, 12 "The Sword in 
the Stone"
Fencing State Women's 
Tournament at IVP 9:30 AM 
Women's Basketball at Cal 
State 10:00 AM 
Coffeehouse with James 
Durst 9:30 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Sparkle"
12131415161718
SDC Movie DH 2210
6, 8:30, 11 ''Myra Breckenridge"
Roots 10 
BLACK WEEK
Fencing at IVP 6:30 PM 
TARTANRoots 11
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8.10 "Allegro Non 
Troppo"
AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 "Greased 
Lightening"
Coffeehouse with Dan Finen 
9:30
3rd Semi-annual Welch Jam 
Welch Hall 9:00 PM
1920
Spring begins
Third musical dessert
Donner Lobby 6:30 PM
Fencing vs. Penn State 
Fayette Home 6:30 PM
2122232425
TARTAN
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Long Day's 
Journey Into Night"Classes end at 10:30 PM
\
2627
SPRING RECESS
28
293031
MUDGEHOUSE
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
A-201____..............4444A-203 ....____ 4445
A-205 ____..............4446A-207 ..... . . . 4447
A-209 ..................4448A-210 ..... . . . 4449
A-211____..............4450A-213 ________ 4451
A-215 ..................4452A-216 ..... . . . 4453
A-301____..............4455A-302 ..... . . . 4456
A-303 ____..............4457A-304 ..... . . . 4458
A-305 ..................4459A-306 ..... . . . 4460
A-307 ____..............4461A-308 ....____ 4462
A-309 ..................4463A-310 ..... . . . 4464
A-311____..............4465A-312 ..... . . . 4466
A-313____..............4467A-314 ..... . . . 4468
A-315 ..................4469A-316 ..... :. . 4470
8-1............................ 4472B-2............... . . . 4471
B-3............................4473B-4.............. . . . 4474
B-5............................ 4475B-6.............. . . . 4476
B-7............................ 4477B-8.............. . . . 4478
B-9............................4479B-10............ . . . 4480
B-101____..............4481B-102 ..... . . . 4482
B-103 ..................4483B-104 ..... . . . 4484
B-105____..............4485B-106 ....____ 4486
B-107..............4487B-108 ..... . . . 4488
B-109____..............4489B-110 ..... . . . 4490
B-111..............4491B-112____. . . . 4492
B-113____.............. 4493B-114 ... .. . . . 4494
B-115 ... ............... 4495B-116 ... .. . . . 4496
B-117..............4497B-118 ... ., . . . 4498
B-201.............. 4499B-202 ..... . . . 4500
B-203 ____.............. 4501B-204 ..... . . . 4502
B-205 ____..............4503B-206 ..... . . . 4504
B-207 ..................4505B-208 ........ 4506
B-209..............4507B-210.... 4508
B-211.............. 4509B-212. . . . 4510
B-213..............4511B-214. . . . 4512
B-215____..............4513B-216. . . . 4514
B-217..............4515B-218. . . . 4516
B-301____..............4517B-302. . . . 4518
B-303 ____..............4519B-304.... 4520
B-305.............. 4521B-306.... 4522
B-307..............4523B-308.... 4524
B-309............. 4525B-310.... 4526
B-311____.............. 4527B-312.... 4528
B-313..............4529B-314.... 4530
B-315____..............4531B-316____ 4532
B-317.............. 4533B-318.... 4534
C-1............................4535C-2................. 4536
C-3............................ 4537C-4............... . . .4538
C-5............................4539C-6............ . . . 4540
C-7............................4541C-8................. 4542
C-9............................ 4543C-10............... 4544
C-11......................... 4545C-12............... 4546
C-13......................... 4547C-14............... 4548
 C-15.........................4549C-16............... 4550
C-17.........................4551C-18............... 4552
C-101.............. 4553C-102.... 4554
C-103____.............. 4555C-104.... 4556
C-105..............4557C-106.... 4558
C-107____..............4559C-108.... 4560
C-109 . . . ............... 4561C-110 ... ..... 4562
<P-m - - C-112 . . ..... 4560
r.m4RfiKr.i 14vice c

---------------------------------------------------

c.
. -ern.
APRIL
MwTh
1
Tennis at John Carroll 
1:00 PM
Golf at Case with John 
Carroll 1:00 PM
Special Interest minicourses 
begin
23
All classes resume
45
Tennis at W&J 1:00 PM
6
 - 2r
Scotch n' Soda "Woodwind"
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8, 10 "Lies My Father 
Told Me"
Golf vs. Hiram 
Home 1:00 PM
Scotch n' Soda Woodwind"
AB Movie DH 2210
6, 8, 10, 12 "Annie Hall"
Tennis at Westminster 
Q 1:00 PM
Track at W&J 1:00 PM 
Disco boat ride 4-E and 
C-Tower
Scotch n' Soda "Woodwind"
Coffeehouse with
Nina Kahle
SDC Movie DH 2210
6, 8:30, 11 "Cabaret"
9101112
Tennis vs. Theil Home 3:30
Track vs. Hiram Home 3:30 
FALL REGISTRATION
13
-H i
Renaissance in Concert  
Carnegie Music Hall
Scotch n' Soda "Woodwind"
14
SPRING CARNIVAL
Golf vs. Duquesne 1.00 PM
Scotch n'Soda "Woodwind"
AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 "Rocky"
15
Tennis vs. Duquesne 
Home 3:30 PM
Track vs. Grove City at 
Bethany 1:00 PM
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 New York, 
New York"
1617
Tennis vs. Bethany 
Home 1:00 PM
1819
Tennis vs. Case-Western 
Home 3:30 PM
Track vs. Case-Western 
Home 3:30 PM
20
Fine Arts Films DH 2210 
6, 8, 10 "Small Change"
21
Golf at Theil 1:00 PM
AB Movie DH 2210 
6,8, 10, 12 "Wizards"
DanceCountry Night
22Tennis vs. Hiram 
Home 3:30 PM 
Track vs. John Carroll 
Home 1:00 PM 
Coffeehouse with 
"Bermuda Triangle"
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Brewster 
McCloud"
23 T
/242526
Track vs. Theil 
Home 1:00 PM 
Golf vs. W&J, Bethany at 
Allegheny 1:00 PM
2728
GSIA 4th mini ends 
TGIF Disco BR
29
Special interest minicourses 
end
Tennis at Allegheny 1:00 PM
/ 30
Tennis at Pitt 1:00 PM
Fourth musical dessert 
Morewood Lobby 6:30 PMTARTAN
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "North by 
Northwest"
-AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 "Bobby 
Deerfield"
Track vs. Allegheny 
Home 1:00 PM 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Slapshot"
11/...................
'C-201.........................457*'
C-203 .............................4573
C-205 .............................4575
C-207 ..............................4577
C-209 ..............................4579
C-211 ..............................4581
C-213 ..............................4583
C-215 ..............................4585
C-217 ............................ 4587
C-301 ............................ 4589
C-303 ..............................4591
C-305 ..............................4593
C-307 ..............................4595
C-309 ............................. 4597
C-311 ..............................4599
C-313 ...............................4601
C-315 ..............................4603
C-317 ..............................4605
i i...................na/u
C-202 ................... 457SrC-204 ................... 4574
C-206 ................... 4576
C-208 ................... 4578
C-210 .................... 4580
C-212 ................... 4582
C-214 .................... 4584
C-216 .................... 4586
C-218 ................... 4588
C-302 ................... 4590
C-304 ................... 4592
C-306 ................... 4594
C-308 ................... 4596
C-310 ................... 4598
C-312 ................... 4600
C-314 ................... 4602
C-316 ................... 4604
C-318 ................... 4606
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
101. . . ....................4152102............... . . 4153
103. . . ....................4154104............... . . 4155
105. . . ....................4156106............... . . 4157
107. . . ....................4158108............... . . 4159
109. . . ....................4160110............... . . 4161
111. . . ....................4162112............... . . 4163
113. . . ....................4164114............... . . 4165
115. . . .................14166116................. . . 4167
117. . . ....................4168201................. . . 4169
202. . . ....................4170203................. . . 4171
204. .. ....................4172205................. . . 4173
206. . . ....................4174207................. . . 4175
208. . . ....................4176209................. . . 4177
210. . . ....................4178211................. . . 4179
212. . . ....................4180213................. . . 4181
214.. . ....................4182215................. . . 4183
216.. . ....................4184217................. . . 4185
301. .. ....................4186302................... 4187
303. . . ....................4188304................. . . 4189
305. . . ....................4190306................. . . 4191
307____...................4192308................. . . 4193
309. . . ....................4194310................. . . 4195
311____...................4196312................. . . 4197
313____...................4198314................. . . 4199
315.. . ....................4200316................. . . 4201
317____................... 4202A-1................. . . 4137
A-3. . . ....................4138A-4................. . . 4139
A-5. . . ....................4140A-6................. . . 4141
A-7____...................4142A-8................. . . 4143
A-10. . ....................4144A-11............... . . 4145
A-12 . . ....................4146A-13............... . . 4147
A-14 . . ....................4148A-15............... . . 4149
A-16...................4150A-17..............4151
ROSE LAWNTERRACE
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
1..............................43854.................... . . 4382
5..............................43866.................... . . 4383
7..............................43878.................... . . 4384
10____...................438812................. . . 4389
15 ....

---------------------------------------------------

MAY
sMTWThF S
1
CM34
All-Campus Block Party 
Scobell/Welch Fire Lane6
Last day of classes
Golf PAC Championships 
Tennis PAC Championships 
Track PAC Championships 
at Bethany 
AB Movie DH 2210 
6:30, 9, 11:30 "Pink 
Panther Strikes Again"
Tennis PAC Championships 
Golf PAC Championships
TARTAN
Fine Arts Film DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11 "Taming of the 
Shrew"
FencingMid-Atlantic 
Sectional Tournament 
SDC Movie DH 2210 
6,8:30, 11 "Dark Star"
78910111213
FencingMid-Atlantic 
Sectional TournamentHtelWFINALSFINALS
|
FINALS
Final grades for degree 
candidates due 4:30 PM
1415
Commencement
16
\ First 6-week summer session 
begins
17
Spring semester final grades 
due 9:30 AM
001920
21222324252627
\
28293031
i

HAMERSCHLAG HOUSE
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
A-100.............. 4291A-101............ . . 4292
A-102.............. 4293A-103............ . . 4294
A-104..............4295A-105............ . . 4296
A-106..............4297A-108............ . . 4298
A-110 . . . ................. 4299A-112............ . . 4300
A-200..............4301A-201............ . . 4302
A-202................ 4303A-203 ............ . . 4304
A-204................4305A-205 ............ . . 4306
A-206................ 4307A-207 ............ . . 4308
A-208................ 4309A-210............ . . 4310
A-211................4311A-212............ . . 4312
A-213................4313A-214 ............ . . 4314
A-215................4315A-300............ . . 4316
A-301................4317A-302 ............ . .4318
A-303................4319A-304 ............ . . 4320
A-305 . . ................. 4321A-306 ............ . . 4322
A-307 . . .................4323A-308 ............ . . 4324
A-310 . . ................. 4325A-311............ . . 4326
A-312 . . ................. 4327A 313............ . . 4328
A-314 . . ................. 4329A-314............ . . 4329
A-315 . . ................. 4330A-316............ . . 4331
B-100 . . ................. 4332B-101............ . . 4333
B-102 . . ................. 4334B-103............ . . 4335
B-104 . . .................4336B-105............ . . 4337
B-107 . . .................4338B-109............ . . 4339
B-113 . . ................. 4340B-115............ . . 4341
B-117 . . .................4342B-119............ . . 4343
B-200 . . ................. 4344B-201............ . . 4345
B-202 . . ................. 4346B-203 ............ . . 4347
B-204 . . ................. 4348B-205 ............ . . 4349
B-206 . . ................. 4350B-207 ............ . . 4351
8-309 . . ................. 4352B-210............ . . 4353
B-211 . . ................. 4354B-212............ . . 4355
B-213 . . ................. 4356B-214............ . . 4357
B-215 . . ................. 4358B-217............ . . 4359
B-219 . . ................. 4360B-221............ . . 4361
B-300 . . ................. 4362B-301............ . . 4363
B-302 . . ................. 4364B-303 ............ . . 4365
B-304 . . ................. 4366B-305 ............ . . 4367
B-306 . . ................. 4368B-307 ............ . . 4369
B-309 . . ................. 4370B-310............ . . 4371
B-311 . . ................. 4372B-312............ . . 4373
B-313 . . ................. 4374B-314............ . . 4375
B-315 . . ................. 4376B-317............ . . 4377
B-319................ 4378B-3214379
HENDERSON HALL
Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
100........................... 4607101................. . . 4608
102........................... 4609103. ..>.... . . 4610
104...........................4611105................. . . 4612
106...........................4613107................. . . 4614
108...........................4615200................. . . 4616
201...........................4617202................. . . 4618
203...........................4619204................. . . 4620
206........................... 4621206................. . . 4622
205. . . ................. 4621206................. . . 4622
207........................... 4623208................4624

---------------------------------------------------

MOREWOOD 
Rm. Ex.
1-A-1 .......................... 4393
1-A-3 .......................... 4395
2-A2.......................4410
2 A 4...........................4412
2-A-6............................4414
2-A 8...........................4416
3-A 1 ...........................4734
3-A-3 ............................4736
3-A-5 ...........................4738
3 A-7 .......................... 4740
3-A-9 .......................... 4742
4-A-2 ...........................4800
4-A-4 . . . ..................4802
4-A-6 ............................4804
4-A-8 ...........................4806
5-A-1 . . . Vf............ 4865
5-A-3 ............................4867
5-A-5 ............................4869
5-A-7 ............................4871
5-A-9 . . . ...................4873
6-A-2 ...........................4932
6-A-4 ...........................4934
6-A-6........................ 4936
6-A-8 ...........................4938
2-B-1..............................4418
2-B-3............................ 4420
2-B-5............................ 4422
2-B-7............................. 4424
2-B9.........................4426
2 B 11.......................... 4428
3-B1......................... 4743
3-B-3............................4745
3-B 5..............................4747
3-B-7. .......................... 4749
3-B-9..................................J............... 4751
3-B-1 1..........................4753
4-B1..........................4808
4-B-3........ ................4810
4-B-5..............................4812
4-B-7..............................4814
4-B 9. . . ..............4816
4-B-1 1..........................4818
5-B1........................ 4874
5-B-3..............................4876
5-B-5........................... 4878
5-B-7............................ 4880
5 B-9. . . .... 4882
5-B-1 1..........................4884
6-B1..........................4940
6-B-3..............................4942
6-B-5.............................4944
6-B-7..............................4946
6-B-9..............................4948
6-B-1 1..........................4950
7-B1......................... 3953
7-B-3..............................3955
785............................ 3957
7B'7............................. 3959
78 9............................. 3961
7 8 11............................3963
GARDENS
Rm.
1-A-2 . . .
2-A-1 . . .
2-A-7
3-A-2
3-A-8 .
4-A-7...........
4-A-9 .....
5-A2.......
5-A-4...........
5-A-6...........
5-A8......
6-A1.......
6-A-3...........
6-A-5...........
6-A-7...........
6-A-9...........
2-B-2..............
2-B-4..............
2-B-6..............
2-B 8..............
2-B-10...........
2-B-1 2........
3-B2..........
3-B-4..............
3-B-6..............
4-B-2. . 
4-B-4. . 
4-B-6. . 
4-B-8. . 
4-B-10.
4-B-12.
5-B-2. . 
5-B-4. . 
5-B-6. . 
5-B-8. .
6-B-2.
6-B-4.
6-B-6.
6-B-8.
7-B-2.
7-B-4.
7-P.1?
7-B-13. . ............... 39651-C-1............ . . . 4396
Ex.2-C-1. . . ...............44302-C-2............ . . . 4431
. 43942-C-3. . . ...............44322-C-4............ . . . 4433
. 44092-C-5. . . ...............44342-C-6............ . . . 4705
. 44112-C-7. . . ............... 47062-C-8............ . . . 4707
. 44132-C-9. . . ............... 47082-C-10. . . .. . . . 4709
. 44153-C-1____..............47553-C-2............ . . . 4756
. 44173-C-3. . . ...............47573-C-4............ . . . 4758
. 47353-C-547593-C-6............ . . . 4760
. 47373-C-7. . . ............... 47613-C-8............ . . . 4762
. 47393-C-9. . . ............... 47633-C-10. . . .. . . . 4764
. 47414-C-1. . . ............... 48204-C-2............ . . . 4821
. 47994-C-3. . . ............... 48224-C-4............ . . . 4823
. 48014-C-5____.............. 48244-C-6............ . . . 4825
. 48034-C-7. . . ............... 48264-C-8............ . . . 4827
. 48054-C-9. . . ............... 48284-C-10____. . . . 4829
. 48075-C-1____..............48865-C-2............ . . . 4887
. 48665-C-3. . . ............... 48885-C-4............ . . . 4889
. 48685-C-5. . . ............... 48905-C-6............ . . . 4891
. 48705-C-7. . . ............... 48925-C-8............. . . 4893
. 48725-C-9________. .48945-C-10____. . . . 4895
. 49316-C-1. . . ...............49526-C-2............ . . . 4953
. 49336-C-3____..............49546-C-4............. . . 4955
. 49356-C-5. . . ............... 49566-C-6............ . . . 4957
. 49376-C-7. . . ............... 49586-C-8............ . . . 4959
. 49396-C-9____..............39166-C-10________3917
44197-C-1.. 3966
44217-C-4. . . . 3969
44233971
44257-C-8. . . 3973
. 44277-C-9____.............. 39747-C-10________ 3975
. 44291-D-1 . . ...............,43971-D-2________ 4398
. 47442-D-2 ..... . . .4711
. 47462-D-3 . . ...............47122-D-4 ..... . . . 4713
. 47482-D-5 . . ...............47142-D-6____. . . . 4715
. 47502-D-7 . . ...............47162-D-8 ..... . . . 4717
. 47522-D-9 . . ...............47182-D-10. . . .. . . . 4719
. 47542-D-11. . ............... 47203-D-1 ..... . . . 4765
. 48093-D-2 . . ...............47663-D-3________ 4767
48113-D-4. .47683-D-5 ..... . . . 4769
48133-D-6 . ...47703-D-7 ..... . . . 4771
48153-D-8.............. 47723-D-9 ..... . . . 4773
. 48173-D-10. . ............... 47743-D-11. . . .. . . . 4775
. 48194-D-1 . . ............... 48304-D-2 ..... . . . 4831
48754-D-3 . . ...............48324-D-4 ..... . . . 4833
. 48774-D-5 . . ............... 48344-D-6........____ 4835
48794-D-7. . .48364-D-8 ..... . . .4837
48814-D-9. 48384-D-10. . . .. . . . 4839
. 48834-D-11. . .................48405-D-1________ 4896
. 48855-D-2 . . ..................48975-D-3-------. . . .4898
. 49415-D-4 . . .................48995-D-5-------____ 4900
. 49435-D-6 . . ..................49015-D-7 ..... . . . 4902
49455-D-8...........49035-D-9 ..... . . .4904
49475-D-10. . .
6-D-1 . . .
.................4905
..............3918
5-D-11. . . .. . . . 4906
. 49496-D-2 ..... . . . 3919
. 49516-D-3 . . ............... 39206-D-4 ....____ 3921
39546-D-5.............. 39226-D-6 ..... . . . 3923
. 39566-D-7 . . ...............39246-D-8____. . . . 3925
6-D 9 . ...............39266-D-10. . . .. . . . 3927
. 39586-D-11. . ............... 3928E-102____. . . . 4399
. 3970E -103 . . .................4400E-104 ..... . . . 4401
. 3972E-105 . . ............... 4402E-106 ..... . . . 4403

---------------------------------------------------

E -107 ...............4404E-108.... 4405E-716........................ 3989E-717............ . 3990
E-109 ...............4406E-110 . . ..... 4407E-718......................... 3991E-719............ . 3992
E-201 ............... 4721E-202.... 4722E-720......................... 3993E-721............ . 3994
E-203 ...................... 4723E-204 . . ..... 4724E-723......................... 3995E-724 ............ . 3996
E-205 ...................... 4725E-206 ____.... 4726E-725.........................3997E-726 ............ . . 3998
E-207 ...................... 4727E-208.... 4728E-727......................... 3997
E-209 ...................... 4729E-210________ 4730BOSSHALL
E-211 ...................... 4731E-212.... 4732Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
E-301...................... 4776E-302 ____.... 4777100. .......................... 4655101................. .4656
E-303 ...................... 4778E-304.... 4779103. ......................... 4657104................. . 4658
E-305 ...................... 4780E-306.... 4781105. ......................... 4659107................. . 4660
E-308 ...................... 4782E-309.... 4783108. ..........................4661109................. . 4662
E-310......................4784E-311.... 4785110. ..........................4663111................. . 4664
E-312...................... 4786E-313____.... 4787200. ......................... 4665201................. . 4666
E-314...................... 4788E-316.... 4789203. .........................4667204................. . 4668
E-317......................4790E-318________ 4791205. ......................... 4669207................. . 4670
E-319...................... 4792E-320.... 4793208. ..........................4671209................. . 4672
E-321...................... 4794E-323.... 4795210. ......................... 4673211................. . 4674
E-325 ...................... 4796E-326 ____.... 4797300. ..........................4675301................. . 4676
E-327 ...................... 4798E-401.... 4841303. ......................... 4677304................. . 4678
E-402 ...................... 4842E-403 ____.... 4843305. ..........................4679307................. . 4680
E-404 ......................4844E-405.... 4845308. ..........................4681309................. . 4682
E-406 ......................4846E-408 ____.... 4847310. .........................4683311................. . 4684
E-408 ......................4848E-410.... 4849SHIRLEY APARTMENTS
E-411......................4850E-412. . . . 4851Rm.E*.Rm.Ex.E-413......................4852E-414____ 48531 . . .2......................
E-416...................... 4854E-417. . . . 48553 . . .................... 468744RAA
E-418......................4856E-419. . . . 48575 . . .6......................
E-420 ...................... 4858E-421. . . . 48597 . . .9......................
E-423 ......................4860E-424 ..... . . . 486110 . .11...................
E-425 ...................... 4862E-4 26 ..... . . . 486312 . .14...................
E-4 27 ...................... 4864E-50 ..... . . . 490715 . .18.................... . 4699
E-502 ......................4908E-503 ..... . . . 490916 . .......................469820...................
E-504 ......................4910E-505 ____. ... 491119 . ....................... 470022.................... . 4703
E-506 ......................4912E-508 ____. . . . 491321 . .......................4702B-1...................
E-509 ......................4914E-510 ..... . . . 4915
E-511......................4916E-512____. . . . 4917Rm.
WOODLAWN APARTMENTS
E-513......................4918E-514 ..... . . . 4919Ex.Rm.Ex.
E-516...................... 4920E-517 ..... . . . 49211........................44352....................... . 4436
E-518...................... 4922E-519 ..... . . . 49234 . . .5. . 4438
E-520 ...................... 4924E-521 ..... . . . 49256 . . .........................44397....................... . 4440
E-523 ...................... 4926E-524 ____. . . . 49278 . . .9....................... . 4442
E-525 ...........
E-527 ...........
........... 4928
........... 4930
F-R9R4Q9Q10 . .
E-601________ 3929WELCH HALL
E-602 ...................... 3930E-603 ..... . . . 3931Rm.Ex.Rm.Ex.
E-604 ......................3932E-605 ....____ 3933100. .......................4204101.................... . 4205
E-606 ...................... 3934E-608 ..... . . . 3935102. .......................4206103.................... . 4207
E-609 ...................... 3936E-610 ..... . . . 3937104. . .105.................... . 4209
E-611...................... 3938E-612____. . . . 3939106. . .......................4210107.................... . 4211
E-613...................... 3940E-614 ..... . . . 3941108. . .......................4212109.................... . 4213
E-616...................... 3942E-617________ 3943200. . .......................4214201.................... . 4215
E-618...................... 3944E-619 ....____ 3945202. . .203.................... . 4217
E-620 ...................... 3946E-621____. . . . 3947204. . .......................4218205.................... . 4219
E-623 ......................3948E-624 ________ 3949206. . .......................4220207.................... . 4221
E-625 ...................... 3950E-626 ..... . . . 3951208. . ....................... 4222209.................... . 4223
E-627 ...................... 3952E-701________ 3976300. . .......................4224301.................... . 4225
E-702 ...................... 3977E-703 ..... . . . 3978302. . ....................... 4226303.................... . 4227
E-704 ...................... 3979E-705 ________ 3980304. . .......................4228305.................... . 4229
E-706 ......................3981E-708 ..... . . . 3982306. . .307.................... 4231
E-709 ...................... 3983E-710____. . . . 3984308. . ....................... 4232309.................... 4233
E 711...................... 3985E-712 ..... . . . 3986TECH HOUSE......................
E-713......................3987E-714 ..... . . 3988SPIRIT HOUSE...................

---------------------------------------------------

ab lectures presents:
wilson author of the
bookbrian 
keysubliminal 
seductionjan.
24
8=00 am. 
skibo 
ballroom 
free
university graphics
funded by 
activities lee
C l t( O > j 
A I f;t ;;n V'J VjUO Sf!j I' j! . ,1J !
3.1 i*j"*,'ji * j'i'_*  ji.ti,'.
ir , ^,0, ~ . , ,  , , : J**l i - ^ I I) i i I i ^ i I i V ' I 
Stfifi Iit> (/tiiiil Jih

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Falco Dance Co. lacks polish
A dance review
Company: Louis Falco Dance 
Company 
Producer: Pittsburgh Dance
Council
Scotch' n' Soda 
sets dates
by Matt Sweigart
Scotch V Soda has set times, dates 
and places, for its first meetings in all 
aspects of production for Woodwind, 
the 1978 spring musical. They are as 
follows:
Orchestra Auditions will be held on 
Saturday, January 28th at 12:00 noon 
in Skibo Room 12. Woodwind is a rock 
musical. We need rock musicians. We 
need woodwinds, brass, and strings as 
well. Musicians should bring instruments. 
A prepared audition piece is optional. 
The music will be provided.
Technical crew call will also be held 
on the 28th, at 2:30 PM in Skibo, Room
11. Everyone interested in lighting and 
set construction should attend. An As
sistant Director, Properties Manager, Stage 
Manager and Lighting Crew Head will be 
chosen from those attending this meet
ing.
Costume Crew will meet Wednesday, 
January 25th at 6:00PM in the Wherret 
Room, Skibo.
Matt Sweigart is a member of Scotch h  
Soda
Marcel Ophuls 
to visit CMU
by D. Minor
by Knox Uguccioni
The works in the repertory of the Louis 
Falco Dance Company are abstract, 
modern dances with various levels of sym
bolism, meaning and interpretation. Moti
vation for many of the dances comes from 
Mr. Falco and tends toward personal vi
sions. So they sometimes lack the quality 
of universal appeal. His works are certainly 
innovative, but they often do not resemble 
dance and even lack the purity of dynamic 
movement. Dance may be movement, but 
movement isnt always dance.
Hero is an abstract piece with music 
which is reminiscent of Indian cymbals, 
pipes and drums. Juan Antonio was a dyna
mic principal dancer and a clear focus for 
the intertwining and overlapping move
ments. At the beginning he was obviously 
idolized by the other men and women, 
but his dominance dissipated and the re
lationships between the dancers grew more 
ambiguous and confusing. A few changes 
from one pair of harem pants to another 
only made things more confusing because 
of the lack of justification for the changes. 
The dance was basically repeated, inter
twined and overlapping movements which 
encouraged the dancers to group and 
regroup as the patterns changed. Those 
patterns did not always respond to the 
music and after awhile the dance was 
boring because there was no obvious moti
vation to sustain the movement. The dan
cers were simply repeating movements 
which had been choreographed for them.
Sand and Foam was another abstract, 
lyrical dance. Juan Antonios fluid cho
reography expressed the spirit and chang
ing images of the wind, of the beach and 
the different moods of the surf. Ranko 
Yokoyama and William Gomel danced 
well, but there were awkward, stumbling 
transitions from one phrase to another
which were abrupt enough to diminish the 
smooth, graceful flow of the dance.
Clearly the best work was Two Penny 
Portrait, choreographed and performed by 
Mr. Falco with Lisa Nalven. It was shock
ing in its symbolic realism as well as its 
subject? a couple and their struggle to have 
a child. The dance is a poignant document
ary of their lives and of their loneliness, 
frustration and despair. Eventually, after 
being disappointed time and again, they 
succeed and are overjoyed. Both Mr. Falco 
and Miss Nalven were excellent and 
handled the difficult subtleties pf mood 
with skill. The setting of garbage cans and 
newspapers by Victor Paul and the sound 
environment by Burt Alcantra made the 
dance startlingly dramatic by reinforcing 
the realistic qualities.
The last work was Tiger Rag. a fantasy
not unlike a circus. The dancers wore tiger 
costumes which they eventually shed and 
as the dance progressed they proceeded to 
examine relationships between themselves 
as members of a circus community. Parti
cularly outstanding was Lisa Nalven whc 
was the top half of a gigantic fat man 
Her comic movements and her huge cos 
tume were totally appropriate to her cha
racter, but occasionally hints of the real 
person would show through.
For the most part the Falco troupe was 
interesting and their works were unusual, 
but they didnt always have the precision 
and polish which characterizes the truly 
great dance companies. The innovative 
drive of Mr. Falco has carried the company 
far in the past ten years and will surely 
carry it farther to other new, exciting 
works.
Marcel Ophuls, the director of such 
penetrating documentaries as The Sorrow 
and the Pity and A Sense of Loss, will be 
speaking to H&SS students and any other 
interested persons on Thursday, January 
26 in Baker Hall, Room 231 at 3:30 PM. 
Ophuls will be answering questions con
cerning his new film. Memory of Justice.
Ophuls will be speaking at Carnegie 
Institute on Thursday evening, January 
26, at 8:00 PM. His visit to Pittsburgh 
will mark the conclusion of the Marcel 
Ophuls Film Series the Institute has been 
sponsoring. When the CMU history depart
ment heard about this series, they de
cided to take advantage of the oppor
tunity. They set up a mini-course for 
H&SS students in which Ophuls and his 
films could be examined in greater detail. 
The freshmen have been viewing the 
films at the Institute. Each film is fol
lowed up by an in-class discussion at 
CMU. Professor Shaefer and Professor 
Cohn of the history department are respon
sible for setting up and leading the 
mini-course. Both instructors hope that 
Ophuls' visit to the campus on Thurs
day will attract any students and faculty 
who might be interested.
Memory of Justice will be screened 
in the Lecture Hall at Carnegie Institute 
on Wednesday, January 25 at 7:30 PM 
and on Friday, January 27 at the same 
time. Admission is S2. There is no admis
sion charge for Ophuls' lectures either on
Blackbyrds have action
& xrK
A record review 
Album: Action 
Artists: Blackbirds
by David C. Lucas
When I criticized the Blackbyrds last 
album. Unfinished Business, the article 
ended up with the title. Music for a Bad 
Party. Conversely, the groups new album 
Action could be called Sounds for a 
Jam. Having recovered from a partial 
lapse of creativity. Action reflects the 
rhythmic and structural vivacity of their 
earliest releases. As with the Commodores' 
Commodores, I found Action packed with 
fine, funky material suitable for dancing 
and radio airplay.
sists of multi-layered musical textures. It 
also shows the influence of the Blackbyrds 
mentor and producer, Donald Byrd. The 
sly, Byrd-like changes in rhythm crop up 
quite often. Four of the five members of 
the group write the material, although the 
styles are not distinguishable from one 
another.
Vocals on Action are done by the Block' 
Boys Orchestra, a quintet whose sound is 
characteristically smooth but one-dimen 
sional. The Blackbyrds use singing as < 
texture, as they do with the string anc 
horn sections. The subtleties and quick var 
iations of tone are given to instruments like 
guitar and piano. This makes sense, as the 
Blackbyrds were educated at Howard Uni 
versity as instrumental musicians. It is sad 
however, that the Block Boys only get to 
harmonize as the tunes fade out.
Three of Actions seven tunes are great 
dance numbers. Supernatural Feeling beme of birds, but that could be a reaction 
to the radio commerical where this intro 
plays behind the announcer. Baby Birds 
sales pitch for the album.) Brass, key
boards and guitars handle the well-struc
tured, interwoven riffs. A powerful syn
thesizer coup introduces Lookin  Ahead. 
The bass is rich and solid, the orchestra
tion, neatly discofied and the guitar lines 
are thrilling. Kevin Toneys keyboard 
wizardry dominates Street Games. He pro
vides spacey synthesizer and jazzy electric 
piano. While the lyrics are among the most 
lackluster, the lead Block Boys gruff vocal 
is quite interesting.
Dreaming About You and Something 
Special are slower in tempo, but danceable. 
The former features Donald Byrd on trum
pet. The style is barely distinguishable 
from that of the Blackbyrds teacher. Vo
cally and lyrically, it is richer than any of 
any of the other tunes. Something Special 
mixes bongos and thwacky guitar with 
Toneys delicious cocktail piano.
Slow, slinky and sexy are words which 
describe Mysterious Vibes. Twinkly syn
thesizer, triangle, airy strings and tenor sax 
breeze over a very solid bass line. Most of 
the lyrics come at the end.
For those of us who value rhythm, tight 
arrangement and danceability, Action is an 
important release. Its good to see that we 
havent lost the Blackbyrds to medkxafity.

---------------------------------------------------

page 20TARTANJanuary 24, 1978
//ARJ Ninsde iCOMIMGOSsd dsGisd
by Walter Eysselinck 
Drama Department Head
As head of the Drama Department, one 
of my primary goals is to provide an outlet 
for our most promising students and our 
faculty of practicing professionals. Another 
is to enlarge the number of Western Penn
sylvanians able to attend our produc
tions. In the past, limitations of time and 
space have prevented this. Now, with our 
production of Harold Pinters Old Times, 
we will inaugurate a new series of plays 
designed to achieve both these goals.
Long ago we recognized the need to 
supplement the large-scale, elaborate pro
ductions of our Mainstage series in the 
Kresge Theatre. This new Studio series 
features plays with small casts and limited 
technical demands. Still, the productions 
will be fully rehearsed, fully mounted and 
will showcase the best work of the Depart
ments talented students and faculty. In 
an effort to reach a wider theatre-going 
audience, these Studio Theatre productions 
will be designed to travel and available for 
outside booking.
Faculty members James L. Rosenberg 
and William Matthews and students
Gregory Lehane, Cherry Jones and Gela 
Jacobson have collaborated on the produc
tion of Old Times. Mr. Lehane, a veteran 
of the Cleveland Playhouse and an MFA 
candidate in directing, will be more 
familiar to local audiences for his leadingEnglish 
Design
by Fyrth Reckseit
The department of Design sponsored 
he first in a series of Design Issues lectures 
Wednesday evening, January 18 in Science 
Hall 7500. A cross-section of enthusiastic 
people gathered to hear Mark English, an 
internationally recognized illustrator, speak 
about the Art and Practice of Illustration.
Mark English has illustrated for a var
iety of publications, mostly womens maga
zines: Ladies Home Journal; Redbook; 
T. V. Guide and Time magazine. He has also 
illustrated record jackets for Seals and 
Crofts, The Who and John Denver. At first 
the lecturer seemed shy, but as he contin
ued to speak the audience, like myself, 
found themselves intrigued by an articu
late, straightforward and charismatic man.
The lecture format was a visual slide 
presentation. Throughout the evening, the 
audience felt free to question Mr. English 
about his work. Questions posed to the 
speaker throughout his presentation were 
for the most part intelligent and full of 
insight. Mr. English answered each ques
tion to the audiences satisfaction.
Two major issues of the evening related 
to technique and to what constitutes pro
fessional illustration. Mark English be
lieves the foundation for professional illus
tration lies in the ability to draw, Other 
things are superficial and can be learned in 
time. English continued to say that the
speaks to 
students
serious artist in learning to understand and 
convey a form in all mediums, should carry 
a drawing pad all the time.
In addition to good draftsmanship, a 
professional illustrator must have an ability 
to transfer verbal information into visual 
images. Mark English believes this transfer 
of information can only occur with con
stant probing and by analyzing the written 
material. In this way an artist also under
stands his market. The result: an illustra
tion for Ladies Home Journal would not 
resemble one executed for Time magazine.
Professional illustration also requires 
that illustrators pay attention to business 
details. English advises the audience, 
Dont let people intimidate you. They 
will say: Because you are an artist you 
ought to love what you do and not be con
cerned with business matters. This is un
fair because you are in business.
When asked about his most challenging 
task, English replied, Creativity... It re
mains a constant challenge. It is agony to 
keep something new, fresh and alive. As 
every artist knows, creativity is and always 
will be a difficult challenge.
The Design Department looks forward 
to the next lecture; Wednesday evening 
February 1 at 8:00 in Science Hall 7500. 
The guest speaker, Inge Druckrey, from 
Yale University will discuss her personal 
view of Design Practice and education. 
These lectures are open to the public.
Funded by Activities Fee
by Elaine Smith
Fans of Lawrence of Arabia and Ryans 
Daughter wont want to miss the Film Arts 
presentation of Dr. Zhivago. David Lean, 
the director of all three, creates a tale of 
pic proportions from Boris Pasternaks 
Nobel Prize-winning novel.
Basically a love story, the action occurs 
luring the Russian Revolution. It is this 
backdrop which creates both sorrow and 
cstacy for Omar Shariff as the ill-fated
doctor/poet. Shariff has admitted that 
Yuri Zhivago was his favorite role.
A truly outstanding feature of the film 
is its photography. One would be able to 
turn off the sound and still be entertained. 
Sweeping scenes of wealthy estates and 
war-ravaged battlefields are all depicted, 
and tell a story in themselves.
Come Thursday night to DH 2210 at 
either 6 or 9. Dr. Zhivago is a modernday classic.
Elaine Smith is a member of the Ac
tivity Board. f.t. < *  i \
roles in the past summer with the CarnegieMellon Theatre Company and his weekly 
appearances on KDKA -TVs Evening Mag
azine. Ms. Jones, a senior acting major 
also spent the summer of 1977 with the 
Carnegie-Mellon Theatre Company, as an 
acting intern. Ms. Jacobson, also a senior 
acting major, has entertained thousands 
of Pittsburghers the past two summers as 
a member of the Park Players.
The production of Old Times initiates 
the first public performances in our
smaller, more intimate Studio Theatre, 
located directly behind the Fine Arts 
Building towards Margaret Morrison St. 
The show will run nightly through Satur
day, January 28 at 8:20 PM, with a 
matinee on Saturday, January 28 at 
2:00 PM. Ticket prices are $2.50 per 
person, $1.50 per student with ID. For 
further information, call the CarnegieMellon Box office at 5782407, Monday 
through Friday between the hours of
10 AM and 5 PM.
/\ display of works 
by CMU printmakers
by John Goodman
The show opening tonight in the Gallery 
features the work of two printmakers: 
Joni Martley and Mike Weiss. Their work 
differs in their choice of media; Joni will 
be showing woodcuts, silkscreens, litho
graphs, and etchings while Mikes work 
will be exclusively woodcuts. But behind 
the differences in techniques lies a shared 
philosophy which can be seen in all the 
work and which serves as a background to 
a greater appreciaiton of the prints.
Both of the artist, as printmaking 
majors, are aware of the potentials and 
limitations of all the major printmaking 
procedures. In producing a print, the 
first decision is in selecting the right 
technique for the design envisioned. 
The other day Joni showed me a 
drawing she had made for a lithograph, 
Mike explains. After looking at it, and 
talking about it, we realized that the 
design was more appropriate for a woodcut, so that was how she finally did it. 
The techniques involved in the printing 
process become an important factor in 
the creation of the design. A woodcut, by 
virtue of the fact that a block of wood 
must be physically carved, demands a 
greater simplification of design than does a 
lithograph which employs more painterly 
techniques. Likewise, silkscreens are 
best suited .for designs having uniform and
solid color areas, while etchings may util
ize more subtle gradations of color.
Less technical interests may also influ
ence the choice of a medium. Mike prefers 
woodcuts for the sense of intimacy which 
a carver feels for the wood. Originally a 
sculpture major, he finds that the process 
of carving, and the translation of the design 
idea from a drawing to a printing block 
gives the artist a valuable opportunity to 
explore subtle variations of his design. The 
grain of the wood for example, may enter 
into the composition, or an unexpected 
knot may generate a re-thinking of the 
overall plan.
The opportunity to experiment is some
thing both Joni and Mike see as an impor
tant part of printmaking. The additive 
process allows for many options and 
changes can be made anywhere along the 
line. Theres a great excitement at seeing 
the effect that a second color can add to 
your print, says Joni. Printmaking al
lows you to create variations easily; by 
changing colors, or papers, you can give 
your designs an entirely new feeling, and 
thats an advantage you dont have in 
painting or drawing. It is the awareness 
of the possibilities of printmaking and the 
utilization of these advantages that makes 
the work in this weeks showing so inter
esting.John Goodman is a member of the 
Forbes Street Gallery.

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1978-TARTAN-page 21
An important new staging of Swan Lake 
will be presented by the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre on February 2-5 at Heinz Hall. 
This most popular of all classical ballets 
is set to the immortal Peter Tchaikovskys 
score and is being staged for the PBT by 
Petrus Bosman of the Royal Ballet of Lon
don. The four act ballet was originally 
choreographed by the team of Marius 
Petipa and Lev Ivanov in 1895 in St. 
Petersburg, Russia, and was restaged by 
Nicholas Sergeyev for the Sadlers Wells 
Ballet (Royal Ballet) in 1934. The Ser
geyev Swan Lake, the most beautiful of 
the many versions seen around the world, 
is the production that the PBT will present. 
The story centers on the Swan Princess,
PBT will present "Swan Lake"
Odette, who has been bewitched by the 
evil sorceror, Baron Von Rothbart. She 
must be a swan during the day only to 
turn into a real woman at night. Prince 
Siegfried falls in love with Odette and 
attempts to free her from the spell. At the 
Princes twenty-first birthday gala, the evil 
sorceror tricks Siegfried into believing 
that his daughter, Odile, is his beloved 
Odette. Odette realizes that she is now 
doomed, but during a great storm, the 
power of Siegfried and Odettes love 
overwhelms Rothbart.
Swan Lake is the epitome of all fulllength classical ballets. Its first and third 
acts include peasant and folk dances from 
many countries, while the second and
fourth acts are the essence of classical 
ballet which are known as the white 
ballets.
Jo Ann McCarthy, PBTs Principal 
Dancer, will alternate the dual roles of 
Odile-Odette with Eleanor DAntuono, 
Guest Artist in Residence from American 
Ballet Theatre, and Dennis Poole will 
alternate the role of Prince Siegfried with 
Woytek Lowski, Guest Artist in Residence 
from the Boston Ballet.
Petrus Bosman, who will stage Swan 
Lake, is a native of South Africa. He was
a Principal Soloist with the Royal Ballet 
for 15 years and is also a talented choreo
grapher, producer, and director as well.
Because of Swan Lakes popularity 
and previously sold-out houses, five per
formances have been scheduled this season. 
Swan Lake will also mark the closing of 
a most successful ballet season for the 
PBT and will proceed an extensive national 
tour beginning February 23.
Poetry Forums set
Elizabeth Bishop will initiate the second 
half of the season when she reads her 
poems for the International Poetry Forum 
on Wednesday, February 1, at 8:00PM in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. On May 18,1977, 
Miss Bishop was formally inducted as a 
member of the American Academy of 
Arts and Letters, the nations highest 
honor society in the arts. She will oc
cupy Chair 2, formerly held by Thorton 
Wilder.
Her first book of poetry JVorthdt South, 
was published in 1946 and won the 
Houghton Mifflin Poetry Award. She re
ceived the Pulitzer Prize in 1946 for 
Poems: North and South & A Cold
Spring and the National Book Award 
for Poetry in 1969 for her Complete 
Poems. In 1976, she also became the 
first woman and the, first American to win 
tfie Books Abroad/Neustadt lntetnational 
Prize for Literature. Her most recent 
book is Geography III, for which she
won the National Book Critics Circle 
Award.
Miss Bishop has traveled extensively 
and spent many years in Brazil. Her trans
lations from the Portugese include sev
eral poems and The Diary of Helena 
Morley by Alice Dayrell Bryant; she 
was editor and contributing translator of 
an Anthology of Contemporary Brazilian 
Poetry (1972).
Miss Bishop served as Consultant in 
Poetry at the Library of Congress in 1949- 
5G and was appointed honorary consultant 
in American Letters at the Library of 
Congress in 1958.
Tickets are $3.00 and $2.00 to students 
and senior citizens. Tickets are available 
at Kaufmanns, Sears, the Pitt Student 
Union and the Forum office in Carnegie 
Library. Oakland.,
'|jjj0/r ~^i9,This article prepared with the assistance 
of the Carnegie Institute.
Clip and returnTARTAN
READERSHIP SURVEY
Clip and return
[.Personal Data
This information is useful in assessing whether certain sec
tions and features appeal to a particular group of people 
within the CMU community.
Sex:
Class:
OMale( )Female
( )Freshman 
( )Junior 
( )Graduate 
( )Staff
( )Other{jylease specify)
( )Sophomore 
()Senior 
( )Faculty
Residence:On Campus
( )Dormitory 
( )Fratemity
( )Apartment or Roselawn 
( )Webster Hall
Off Campus
( )Apartment 
( )Live with Parents
College:
II. General Readership Patterns
This information will indicate how effective the TARTAN 
is by assessing how often you read it.
I. How often do you pick up the TARTAN?
( )Weekly
( )Regularly(two to three times/month) 
( ) Periodically (about once a month) 
( ) Infrequently(once or twice/semester) 
( ) Seldom (less than onee/semester)
111.Overall Ratings
1 .Excellent
2.Good
3. Ave rage
4.Poor
5.Failure
Does the TARTAN provide 
adequate coverage of campus 
news and events?
2.How often do you usually read the-following sections of 
the TARTAN (please circle one number for each section 
listed below using the following scale)
1.Weekly (I never miss an issue)
2.Regularly (two to three issues a month)
3.Periodically(about once a month) 
4.lnfrequently(once or twice a semester)
5.Seldom (less than once a semester)
NI WS1 2345
LDITORIALS1 2345
ANNOUNCEMENTS1 2J>45
( K?IT( IMISFOLIO (Weekly magazine)1 . 2345
( )AMS( KTFAENTERTAINMENT1 245
( )H&SS( )GSIAEVENTS1 2345
( )SUPASPORTS1 245
1
Do you enjoy reading TARTAN 
articles? 1
What do you think of TARTAN 
coverage so far of;
The Rhodesian Issue 1
Music Education 1
Sports events 1
Movies, records, books 1
What section do you like most?
least?
why?
What news do you feel the TARTAN should report that 
it presently does not?
3 4
3 4
3 4
3 4
IV. Any Other General Comments?
_________________________________^ Triday January 27,/y;

---------------------------------------------------

Who are you, telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us and we'll prove it
Contact your 
placement office 
tor information
PUCCINI
.EBprtb 
Etpyt&B
SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
Come to PUCCINIS and ask for the SPECIAL PACKAGE.
Youll redeve a shampoo, cut and blow-dry style 
PLUS a bottle of shampoo and a styling brush. 
The merchandise alone is worth $8, but K i ccir i 
is offering this entire package for just $15.
CALL OR STOP IN FOR AN APPOINTMENT
OFFER GOOD THRU FEBRUARY 15
PUCCINI113 Bouquet t. ( tN ir l
621-2087
.f.-.01
bisli no c$ fcnfi d$ ,8$ 9U Janaury2 .liflS niiozs
L! .ElecimiO .a'nnemlupN liH snisH us eie?
AB/^TCIF
FULL DECK
"TTT"J J ! ' JJ JJ JI

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
Camegie-Mellon University's music depart
ment will present a faculty recital by 
Carole Morgan, flute, and Paula Page, harp, 
on Sunday, January 29 at 8 PM in Mellon 
Institute auditorium, Oakland.
The recital is free and open to the 
public.
A Chamber Music Recital will oe presented 
at Chatham College on Sunday, January 29 
at 5 PM in the Welker Room. Works by 
Bach, G. Schuller and D. Amran will be 
featured.
Under the auspices of the City of Pitts
burgh, a Pittsburgh Symphony concert in 
Heinz Hall will be presented free of admis
sion to city residents at 8 PM on Wednes
day, February 8. Donald Johanos, Asso
ciate Conductor of the Symphony, will 
conduct.
This and other free city concerts are 
sponsored throughout the year by means 
of a grant from the Citys Performing Arts 
Program. Each year, the program series 
consists of four concerts, the last of which 
is presented in early summer in Schenley 
Park.
Tickets to the February 8 concert can 
be obtained by use of mail order coupons 
which will be appearing in the Pittsburgh 
Press and Post-Gazette.
The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh along 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber 
Orchestra will present the Bach Mass in B 
Minor on Tuesday, January 24 at 8 PM in 
Heinz Hall.
For the first time in eight years, Pitts
burghers will be able to hear this exquisite 
piece presented by the prestigious Mendel
ssohn Choir. Tickets are $8, $6 and $5 on 
sale at Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Gimbels, 
Sears and Home's.
Andre Previn will conduct Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra performances of Sir Will
iam Walton's biblical cantata, Belshazzar's 
Feast, and a Mozart Concerto for Two 
Pianos and Orchestra in Heinz Hall con
certs on Friday, February 10 at 8:30 PM, 
Saturday, February 11 at 8 PM and Sunday 
afternoon, February 12 at 2:30 PM. This 
will be the Symphony's first performance 
in 10 years of Walton's choral drama and 
the concerts serve to mark the 75 th anni/ersary of the composer's birth.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, some tickets are occasionally 
turned baek to the Heinz Hall box office 
for resale. Information may be obtained 
by phoning 281-5000.
THEATRE
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
Mother Courage by Bertolt Brecht, 
translated and directed by Bill Royston, 
Fridays through Sundays, January 20 to 
February 26, at 8:30 PM. Seating is lim
ited and reservations should be made well 
in advance by calling 621-2876.
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance on the Killing by William Hanley 
performed in repertory with Medal of 
Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed by 
Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny Theater 
on the Northside from February. 1 through 
March 5. Preview performances are 
scheduled from January 27 through Jan
uary 31. Ticket information is available 
by calling 323-1900.
Camelot Productions will open the Lerner 
and Loewe musical Camelot on Friday, 
January 20 at the Plaza Theatre, Bloom
field.
Performances will be held at 8:30 PM 
Fridays and Saturdays and 7:30 PM Sun
days, January 20 through February 12 at 
the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue 
(next to West Penn Hospital). Ticket in
formation and reservations may be ob
tained by calling Camelot Productions at 
683-7770.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
announces that the Point Park College 
Theatre Company's next production, sche
duled to open January 27, will be the sec
ond production of the season in the newly 
opened Theatre Downstairs. John Guare's 
farce comedy, The House of Blue Leaves, 
will replace The Robber Bridegroom, orig
inally scheduled, but unavailable for prod
uction.
Community College of Allegheny County, 
South Campus Performing Arts Depart
ment will present That Championship 
Season on Feb. 2,3, and 4, 1978, with 
curtain at 8:00 PM. Tickets go on sale 
January 23rd at $3.50 for general ad
mission and $2.00 for students and faculty.
CINEMA
AB will present Dr. Zhivago, starring Omar 
Shariff and Julie Christie, on Thursday, 
January 26 at 6 and 9 PM. Films are shown 
in Doherty Hall. Admission is .75 with an 
ID.
AB will be presenting Nasty Habits, star
ring Glenda Jackson, Sandy Dennis and 
Geraldine Page, on Friday, January 27 at
6, 8, 10 and 12 PM. Films are shown in 
Doherty Hall. Admission is one dollar with 
an ID.
SDC will be presenting the Academy 
Award-winning film, Whos Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf on Saturday, January 28 
at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM. Films are shown 
in Doherty Hall. Admission is free.
The Memory of Justice, directed by Marcel 
Ophuls, will be screened on Wednesday and 
Friday, January 25 and 27, 1978 at 7:30 
PM in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admis
sion is $2.0Q.
The Memory of Justice is the final film 
in the Marcel Ophuls Director series spon
sored by the Film Section of Carnegie 
Institute. Marcel Ophuls will be present to 
discuss his films and the material upon 
which they are based Thursday January 26, 
1978. Carnegie Lecture Hall, 8:00 PM. 
Admission is free.
ART
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute has 
released the titles of four Paintings of the 
Week" to be discussed in January. Paint
ings of the Week talks are offered Tues 
day through Friday at 12 Noon.
In addition free gallery tours are pre 
sented Tuesday through Friday at 11 AM, 
1:30 PM and 2:30 PM and Saturday and 
Sunday at 2 PM, 2:30 and 3 PM.
An exhibition of European drawings wilt 
open January 20 in Gallery D at the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute. The ex
hibition will continue through March 26.
Gallery hours are from 10 AM until 5 
PM Tuesday through Saturday, 1 PM to 6 
PM on Sunday. The Museum is closed on 
Mondays.
WRCT
WRCT has extended their programming 
hours from 3 PM to 3 AM. They have also 
begun to broadcast a talk show, Mr. Pea
body, which is aired on Tuesdays from
11 PM until 12 PM. Tune in.
MISC.
AB will be presenting Dr. Wilson Bryan 
Key, author of Subliminal Seduction. He 
will be speaking in the Skibo Ballroom on 
Tuesday, January 24 at 8 PM. For more 
information contact the information desk.
AB Coffeehouse will present Chris 
O'Connor for an evening of mime and mu
sic on Friday, January 27 in the Wherrett 
Room at 9:30 PM. Admission is free and 
open to the campus community.
The Alternative Coffee House will feature 
Ted Scheuch in A Night With Mark Twain, 
a theater experience of humor and satire, 
on Friday, January 27, 1978 at 8:30 PM. 
The Coffee House is located in the Lu
theran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Coffee, tea, cider and in
teresting snacks are the fare of the menu. 
For information, call 682-6886.
Carolyn Brown, nationally acclaimed dan
cer, teacher, and choreographer will be in 
residence for the month of February with 
the Pittsburgh Dance Alloy at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. She will offer classes 
open to modem dancers on Monday and 
Wednesday evenings, 5-6:30 PM. Classes 
are $3.50 each and will be held in the 
Dance Studio, Trees Hall, Aliquippa and 
Darraugh Streets. For further information 
contact Margaret Skrinar, Physical Edu
cation Department at 624-4396.
Dance Ensemble's fifth joint studio concert 
on Friday, January 27 at 8 PM in the Trees 
Hall Dance Studio, Alliquippa and Dar
raugh Streets. A $1 donation will be re
quested at the door. For information, 
contact Margaret Skrinar in the University 
of Pittsburghs Physical Education Depart
ment-624-4396.
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy and the Marylloyd Claytor Dance Company will be 
hosted at the University of Pittsburgh 
Dance Ensembles fifth joint studio concert 
on Friday, January 27 at 8:00 PM in the 
Trees Hall Dance Studio, Alliquippa and 
Daraugh Streets. A $1.00 donation will be 
requested at the door
featuring
A BRASS QUARTET
with
Lino Calvarese Dino Calvarese 
Klancy Martin John Culp
JANUARY 30,1978
6:30 p.m. Donner Lobby
CAMPUS COMMUNITY CORDIALLY 
INVITED
Cr
If you:
(a) order your cut flower arrangement or roses before 
February 9th;
(b) pay for your order then, and
(c) pick them up my store on February 13th or 14th . .
.........then.........
you save at least 25% off the regular price.
INCREDIBLE SPECIAL: LONG STEM ROSES for 15.15 a dozen
See my complete selection of cash and carry specials.
BRUCE'S
distinctive flowers & gifts 
centre at neville/oakland 
monday thru Saturday 10 to 5
687-4200687-4200

---------------------------------------------------

"CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD 
PRESENTS"
KENNY RANKIN
o
STEVE GOODMAN
IN CONCERT
SATURDAY, FEB. 11,1978 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
8:00 p.m.
RESERVE TICKETS ARE $3.00 w/I.D. and
$5.00 w/o I.D.
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1978TARTANpage 25
Antimarino marino. The IM Board has voted to
)f continued from back page rescind their earlier decision and next year
Still, if ATO is to build a dynasty, only one ex-varsity letterman will be
they will have to do it without Antiallowed to compete for a given team.
Hear
H & R BLOCK
Representatives 
Talk and Answer Questions 
about
Your Federal Income Tax Return 
Thursday, January 26, 1978 
7:30 P.M.
Morewood Gardens Recreation Room 
OPEN TO THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY
Sponsored by the R. A. Program & the Office of Residence Life
Antimarino, a junior now, believes that 
position on the ATO roster should be 
reserved for Bob Gatehouse. Character
istically, Antimarino will not complain, 
but is thankful for the opportunity he did 
get. If they feel cutting back the league 
will make it more competitive, fme. Im 
thankful I got to play and that we won
the championship. Besides, this IM season 
provided a year of transition away from 
varsity football and helped me adjust to 
my injury.
Antimarinos choice of transition 
proved to be a fortunate one for ATO. 
Congratulations, Pete Antimarino, on being 
named the Most Valuable Plaver.
This week in Intramural Sports
by Frank Pugliano
This week the All-I.M. Football team 
was announced. Led by quarterback and 
M.V.P. Pete Antimarino, league champion 
ATO garnered six of the first team pos
itions to dominate the voting.
Named at center was Pickering of SAE. 
Blocking backs chosen on the first team 
were Mark Ramos of ATO and Mike 
Kulak of the Coaches All-Stars. At end 
were the All-Stars Scat and Bob 
Gatehouse of ATO. Gatehouse, in fact, 
finished second to Antimarino in the 
M.V.P. balloting.
On the defensive side, Bill Miller of 
ATO and Kublin of the Coaches AllStars filled the first team linebacking 
spots. Bob Gatehouse became a two-way 
first team choice with his election to one
M. Brown filled the other defensive back 
position. Rounding out the voting were 
first-team rushers Jeff Ball of SAE and 
Frank Pugliano of ATO.
In other news this week, Mark 45 
beat GSIA 2229 to 2047 and TX bested 
ZBT 2353 to 2169 in I.M. Bowling semi
final matches.
Intramural Darts concludes this week. 
Computer Science faces Theta Xi, the 
winner to meet Delta Tau Delta for the 
Championship.
Competition in I.M. water polo also 
approached a conclusion this week. The 
contenders for the top spot are the 
Swampmen, the Fox Catchers, and Pika.
Registration forms are due today for 
handball, wrestling, water basketball, and 
bridge.of the two defensive back positions. 
eiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiamiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiimiiiiiiiaiiniiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiic^
PREPARE FOR:DAT - LSAT  GMAT OCAT - VAT  SATMCAT t GRE
NMB I. II. Ill * ECFMG * FLEX * VQE
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Flexible Programs A Hours
THere IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661*2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.
MPLAN
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 193
 Outside N Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782
r Centers in Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
niiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiHiiiaiiiiiiiniiiDiiiiiimiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiamiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiR
NEW COLLEGE GRADUATES AND GRADUATING SENIORSExpand your new job horizon at the Lendman Associates
COLLEGE CAREER CONFERENCE
in PITTSBURGH, FEBRUARY 10 and 11
This exciting new program opens the door to many ol the best opportunities in business and industry
Designed specifically for recent graduates and graduating seniors by Lendman 
Associates one of the nation's most experienced managemenl consulting firms, the 
conference will be attended by approximately 100 large and small companies with 
hundreds of entry and middle management openings both in the Pittsburgh area and 
across the country In the two days of the conference you can conduct a |Ob search and 
get interviews that would take months by any other method
MAKE THE MOST OF THE OPPORTUNITY IN ONE PLACE...
AT ONE TIME
In addition to exposure to a wide range of career opportunities, you will also have 
opportunities to participate in training sessions to help you identify the best career course 
for you a program that will show you how to select the companies best suited to your 
background and goals and you'll also be able to join interview practice sessions, job 
search seminars, and career counseling meetings These professionally researched, and 
conducted sessions can help you fine-tune career objectives to show you how to make the 
most out of follow-up interviews with the firms in which you are interested
NO CHARGES OR FEES TO JOB APPLICANTS
All of the services and meeting facilities are sponsored by the participating firms You pay nothing for enrollment in the career conference except your personal transportation meals and lodging Hotel accommodations are available at the conference site however 
you may make your own arrangements
HOW TO REGISTER
To qualify, you must have received a Bachelor s or Master s degree within the last 4 months or be expecting to receive your degree within six months after the career 
conference Use this registration form to hold a spot tor you We are limited by the size of 
the meeting facility
For prompt confirmation please enclose a self-addressed business envelope
These opportunities are equal for all 
turn-out of minorities and women
our participating firms are in favor of a strong
LENDMAN ASSOCIATES
PO Box 62682
Virginia Beach. VA 23462
(804)490-2328
LENDMAN ASSOCIATES P.O. Box 62682 Virginia Beach, VA 23462
Please include resume or statement of |Ob obtective with coupon
Print Neatly. If you qualify to attend, this information will be available to employers before 
the Conference.
Middle InitialFirst Name
CityState
(Permanent Home)(School)
Citizen ? Yes ? No ? Permanent Resident 
O Top-3rd 
Q Mid-3rd 
O Low-3rd
Nameot College or University City Degree Completion Date Class Standing
Graduate Degree(s) College Date of Graduation and Grade Point Average if known
\ List extra curricular activities Organizations and offices held
CAREER OBJECTIVE
? Sales ? Marketing ? Production Mgmt ? Chemistry Biology ? EDP Computer
? Enqineerinq Q Finance O Accounting O Personnel ? Administration ? Advertising 
? Other
Briefly describe employment which helped you finance (indicate amount financed) or important 
work experience if any prior to college
lames and dates
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
. J
in rivi 4,11 i %

---------------------------------------------------

page 26TARTANJanuary 24, 1978
St Vincent preys on CMU, 6-4
sequence, CMU made its closest approach 
to scoring in this period as Mark Jonnatti 
fired a hard shot that hit the post and 
deflected away. Again, CMU was given a 
two man advantage by virtue of a slashing 
penalty, but again their efforts were 
thwarted. The period ended with St. 
Vincent ahead 1-0 and down a man due to 
an interference call.
CMU lost the advantage they had very 
early in the second period as Jack Arturo 
was hit with a tripping penalty. At 5:33 of 
the period, with both teams at full strength, 
Johnston apparently lost sight of the puck 
in a flurry around the crease andTravota 
of St. Vincent struck home a goal to open 
the lead to 2-0.
Jonnatti finally got the goal that had 
been denied him by the post as he fired 
home a shot from the left wing at 9:11 
with assists going to Bill Miller and Jeff 
Reh. However this goal was equalled as 
St. Vincent made good on a power play at 
10:21 when Defelice carried the puck be
hind the goal and stuffed it in the back 
door.
Until this point, the game had been 
pretty well controlled by St. Vincent, but i 
with 1:43 gone, simultaneous penalties to 
Trevota and Arturo left each team down a 
man. The Tartans Rick Smith fired an 
ice level shot from the right side which 
deflected off a defender and brought CMU 
to within one, 3-2. Then, with just 27 
seconds left in the period, Jonnatti, who 
HjiiHiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiimiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiinlllllllllllllllllllinilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllllu
by Ed Sullivan
Although Camegie-Mellon University 
had the good fortune to operate at a two 
man advantage twice, they could not cap
italize on these opportunities and dropped 
a close contest to St. Vincent College, 6-4. 
The final score is a bit misleading because 
the final St. Vincent goal was scored on 
an open net.
The game started off badly as all of the 
action for the first three minutes of the 
game was in the CMU end.  During this 
stretch after only 57 seconds of the first 
period, the Tartans controlled a face off 
but could not clear the puck out of their 
own zone and Dell of St. Vincent drove 
home a goal to open the scoring.
Near the four minute mark of the 
first period, St. Vincent received two 
minor penalties, one for slashing and the 
other for interference. Their combined 
effect was to give the Tartans a two man 
advantage for one minute and fourty-five 
seconds. However, the Tartans failed to 
capitalize as the St. Vincent defense laid 
out a few hard, well-timed checks to free 
the puck and fire it down the ice.
No sooner had this advantage been 
wiped out than CMU received another one, 
this time for five minutes as St. Vincent 
was hit with a major penalty for high 
sticking. Surprisingly, goaltender Doug 
Johnston was soon forced to make a great 
save as he found himself the victim of a 
one on one showdown. During this
had perhaps the finest all around game of 
anyone on the ice, took the puck from a 
crowd and scored on a breakaway crossing 
in front of the net and firing into the open 
right side. Assists went to Reh and Skip 
Wallace.
With the momentum clearly in their 
favor, and only a 30 second break between 
periods, the Tartans came out in the third 
period ready for action. However, after 
failing to score on two power plays, CMU 
allowed Dell to get open enough to score 
his second goal of the afternoon. Two 
minutes later Ricketts of St. Vincent 
drove the nail in the coffin with the 
winning goal on a breakaway, one on one 
with Johnston.
Then, Jonnatti received a five minute
major for high sticking and things looked 
very bleak. Unpredictably, after failing to 
score on so many power plays, the 
Tartans got a short-handed goal at 13:31 
from Reh, his third point of the night with 
assists from Arturo and Smith, to close the 
gap to one, 5-4.
In an attempt to tie the game, the 
Tartans pulled Johnston in favor of an 
extra attacker with 45 seconds to go, but 
Ricketts fired a rink length shot into the 
unguarded net to wind up the contest with 
St. Vincent on top of Camegie-Mellon by a 
score of 6-4.
The Hockey teams next home action 
will be next Sunday at the Civic Arena. 
The opponent will be Cleveland State and 
action begins at 1:00.
Start out where its happening...in a meaningful management job
^ Miller passes the puck to Jonnatti who scored a game high two
. j****}'/,* I * * v :;m :
In the Bell System you start at management level. And 
we don t intend to pamper you We know by now that 
when youre fresh from the graduation ceremony, you 
have a lot more to offer than most businesses give you 
credit for And we'll take advantage of it We II throw 
problems at you right away. Big problems.
And there are a lot of them A field as fast-paced as 
communications produces them as fast as we can 
solve them.
We are interested in aspiring people with Bachelor s 
or Masters degrees. See your Placement Office for 
specific Degree Requirements.
Meet company recruiters representing 
all Bell System Companies 
throughout the U.S.
@
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT NOW 
WITH YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
VWe are an equal opportunity employer
HtllllllHllilifllllilHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIItlltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||IUIIII|||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||lilll|||lllllllllllllllf7
identify yourself, with a haircut <
Every individual is unique. Special. One-of-a-kind. That's the 
way haircuts should be, too. Specially tailored to match you - - 
your face, your personality, your vision of yourself. Great "X" 
customers always know they're getting the best 
hairstyling value for their money. That's 
because hairstyling is our only business. 
That's all we do! Great "X" ... more 
than 50 salons across the country, 
ready to help you identify yourself.
EHKcnmons
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
NO APPOINTMENT___EVER
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)COLORINGS PERMANENTS
10
.00237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 10-9 
NO APPOINTMENTS
25
.00

---------------------------------------------------

Are we glad you're here!
This is the first of a series of Photo Essays on the people who make CMU Basketball so much fun. Quite appropriately, we start off with 
the team's star player, George Harvey. To CMU sports fans, Harvey needs no introduction. Playing guard, Harvey is the man who trig
gers the CMU offense. Very rarely does a game end without Harvey being leading scorer on the CMU team.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
***
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
***
*****?*
*
ARMY ROTC
Interested in Army, but you don't want to spend 3 years on active duty? Have 
you considered the Reserves or National Guard? Still Interested?
If you meet the requirements, we can guarantee you that you will go into the Army 
Reserve or the National Guard.
The Pennsylvania National Guard has a new option. Upon completing your ROTC 
training you can be commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the PA National 
Guard. You do not have to wait until graduation. So, if you are in a 5 year 
program, you can be commissioned after your fourth year. This enables you to 
finish your fifth of school and at the same time be a member of the PA 
National Guard as a Second Lieutenant earning cash for the meetings that you 
attend. It may be possible to be commissioned even earlier, if you are a veter
an or meet the requirements.
Call or come and see us at the Army ROTC offices, 2nd Basement, Margaret
Morrison, 578-2204/2205.
*****************?*******
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
jjfr##0#<CPQ+4#0#OCioocriC OQOOOO#or>ocNtooooooooCi|oniOC|OOOOOf^nHO<>oorroiriifi ^nvr fr^rtinfi n^^*n*t^i^^iTrtrrfr*rvTi*iTi'Trirmirivy'rrr^^
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT UNE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS"Streaks" slowed
 tt I i
by Bob Firm
Coach Dave Maloneys Carnegie-Mellon 
Tartans continued their drive to their sec
ond consecutive Presidents Athletic Con
ference title by rolling over John Carroll 
(28 and 12), 8967. The drubbing of 
the Cleveland school ran CMUs winning 
streak at Skibo Gym to 15.
Balanced scoring again played a major 
role in the Tartan victory. Five CMU 
hoopsters reached double figures. George 
Harvey again led the scoring parade with 
his usual 20 points. Larry Hufnagel, who 
in recent games has become a terror in
side, came through with 17 tallies. Les 
Harpers fine shooting from the top of the 
key paved the way to 15 points. Freshman 
Dave Hofmeister and starter Greg Cham
bers chipped in with 10 and 11, respec
tively.
The Tartans excelled in all phases of 
the game. CMU has played a tenacious
212 zone defense the past couple of 
weeks and really given opponents fits. 
Rebounding, a very important key to the 
Tartans running game, has also improved. 
CMUs 4535 boards edge pointed this Out 
against the Blue Streaks.
John Carroll, minus their star Saul 
Cyvas, were never really in the game 
against the Tartans. When Hufnagel scored 
a three point play with a little less than 
16 minutes to play in the first half, CMU 
had the lead for good at 96.
CMU steadily increased their lead as 
Harper led the way with 11 first half 
points. Techs balanced attack pushed the 
halftime advantage to eight, 3931. %
The Tartans ran off nine straight points 
at the outset of the second half to leave 
the Blue Streaks choking in their dust. 
The burst gave CMU a 17 point lead, too 
much for John Carroll.
The Tartans ran up leads as large as 30
points in the second half as all 11 CMU
players entered the scoring column in
cruising to the 8967 final.
CMUs game with Hiram on Saturday 
was postponed due to the heavy snow. 
The contest has been rescheduled for 
Monday night January 30.
The Tartans, now 63 overall and 30 
in PAC play, take to the floor twice this 
week. CMU travels to Thiel tomorrow 
night at 8:00 PM and is home to face 
Case Western Reserve on Saturday after
noon at 2:00 PM.
CMU
Pts P.eb
Harvey 20 3
Harper 15 11
Hufnagel 17 13
Belechak 2 1
Chambers 11 5
DeFilippo 4 1
Hofmeister 12 5
Hobart 4 2
Ward 2 1
Stefanick 2 0
Ellis 2 1
89 45
John Carroll
Kehoe
Pts
8
Reb
4
Skerl87
Markushic76
Wallis04
Pap102
English23
Tim Deighan81
Tom Deighan71
Kelly85
Kemme61
Hartman00
De ram o00
Wardeiner30
6734
Greg Chambers lays the bail in against John Carroll while Joe Belechak looks on.
Antimarino chosen most valuble
"We shall overcome"-Kepple
by Perry Colosimo
Thus far the womens basketball team 
has learned at least one dependable axiom 
. . . Foul weather is inversely proportional 
to foul shooting. Several games have hat 
to be cancelled because of the inclement 
weather conditions in the area. However, 
if thats all coach Janice Kepple has to 
worry about she would consider herself 
indeed fortunate. Fortunate, you say? 
It seems that way. The team practices 
from 6:30 to 8:00 daily which has caused 
several problems.
Consider these tilings. Some girls have 
schedule conflicts and 6:30 to 8:00 seems 
to be the time slot that attracts most 
intramural players. So far the Tartans have 
played two exhibition games and have 
come up on the short side of the court 
once. The squad is coached by Janice 
Kepple who is in her first year as coach 
after previously tutoring high school 
basketball for 9 years at Shaler Area. 
She had a large initial turnout for the team 
but after the installment of a rigorous 
conditioning program, so necessary for the 
development of a respectable fast-break, 
the number of eager hoopsters rapidly 
decreased to its current number, twelve. 
The remaining line-up is juggled quite a bit 
and these twelve get relatively equal 
playing time in an offense which frequent
ly makes use of substitutions. If there is a 
top six players at the present moment they 
are as follows: Ingrid Goedicke, Terri
Prescar, Brandy Jackson, Laura Cooper, 
Barb Owens and Gale Gammerdinger.
While the problem of adjusting to a new 
coach is often a natural development in 
athletics, the adoption of a negative atti
tude is not. A few players admitted that
the teams lack of enthusiasm and motiva
tion is hindering their play. Janice Kepples 
job is to change all that. Coach Kepple is 
attempting to help her team develop a 
positive mental attitude about themselves 
and about the sport itself. She feels that 
her efforts will inevitably lead to sharp and 
confident play.
Soon, the Tartans will be entering con
ference play. The first regular season game 
is scheduled for Wednesday at 6:00 vs. 
Chatham. Duquesne follows on Saturday 
in a preliminary before the mens game.
The future of the team lies in Coach 
Kepples ability to bolster the spirit and 
enthusiasm on the squad. Recently instat
ed recruiting rules prohibit her from ac
tively and directly recruiting prospec
tive players and thus coach Kepple must 
rely on talent which surfaces through
out the general enrollment. We, the stu
dent body, can help improve player mo
tivation by attending more games and by 
showing interest in the program. Please 
note the schedule and help us get 
underway.
Womens Basketball Schedule
*Feb. 1Robert Morris
Feb. 4Geneva
?Feb. 8Seton Hill
?Feb. 11Carlow
Feb. 15Wash-Jeff
Feb. 17Robert Morris
*Feb.22CSC
Feb. 23Point Park
Mar. 1Bethany
Mar.7Wash-Jeff
Mar. 11California State
?Precedes Men's Varsity Games
Home GamesAway Games
by Mike Jochmann
ATOs Pete Antimarino has belatedly 
been named the most valuable player 
in CMUs 1977 Intramural Football 
Program.
The award could serve as a focal point in 
the latest chapter of the football biography 
of Pete Antimarino titled; Glory to Pain 
and Back AgainA Story of Courage and 
Inspiration.
Probably the first time Antimarino 
inspired people was in high school. There, 
in his senior year, he quarterbacked his 
Gateway High School football team to 
the Western Pennsylvania Interscholastic 
Athletic league (WPIAL) co-championship. 
That year he was named to the Coaches 
WPIAL and the East-Suburban All-Star 
Teams. One honor that eluded him, AllConference, was given to a quarterback 
from Sto-Rox High School named Chuck 
Fusina.
Antimarino chose to continue his 
career here, and, as a freshman in 1975, 
shared quarterbacking duties with Jay 
Duquette, helping the Tartans to a near 
first place finish in the PAC. The winter 
immediately after the football season, 
in a basketball game, Antimarino hurt 
his knee. One knee operation and two 
unsuccessful comeback attempts at the 
varsity level later, Antimarinos inter
collegiate football career was over. Ab
ruptly, he faced the realization that the 
injured knee would be permanently 
unstable and that he would never be able 
to compete at the varsity level again.
But, some might argue, justice tri
umphed and Antimarino was given another 
chance, of sorts, when the Intramural 
Board voted to allow two ex-varsity 
lettermen to compete on the same team. 
Antimarino decided to fill one of those 
two spots on the ATO roster. Surprisingly, 
the thought of re-injury never affected his 
decision. I didnt really consider playing 
that dangerous, said Antimarino. My 
position demanded mainly that I throw 
or run straight ahead. Besides, I was
able to fairly well control the situation 
by slowing up occasionally, something I 
couldnt do as a varsity quarterback.
Antimarino controlled the situation, 
all right, but hardly by slowing up. After 
upset losses to SAE and the Coaches 
All-Stars, ATO improved to where they not 
only won the championship but, at the 
very end, to where Antimarino humbly 
admits ATO might have become the best 
IM football team in CMUs history.
While downplaying his own role, Anti
marino attributes several key things to his 
teams success. Explaining, he said, What 
made ATO was that so many of our players 
had experience as well as a good grasp 
of the game itself. Also, the coach, 
Tom Robich, added a degree of organi
zation and * instilled a spirit which made 
us, as a touch football team, unbeatable 
at times
Antimarino also had some good things 
to say about the quality, of play in the 
intramural league as well as the organiza
tion as a whole. I found the IM league 
to be very competitive. Everyone tried 
his best to win and anytime you have 
that type of atmosphere there is almost 
a perfect situation for enjoyable compe
tition. Also, the night-time setting of the 
games provided an added element of 
excitement. He added, further^ that 
Mr. Birdy did a great job and that 
he [Mr. Birdy] has the ability to get 
people involved.
Not surprisingly, Antimarino listed the 
Coaches All-Stars as his toughest opponent. 
Some of the reasons he gave, I think, 
could very well apply to Antimarino 
himself. They [the Coaches All-Stars] 
were, very disciplined and had a good 
grasp of the game. They also had the 
benefit of playing together before. 
Unfortunately for the All-Stars, however, 
Antimarino saw ATOs loss to the Coaches 
as the turning point in the season. Anti
marino explained, Tho loss to the Coach
es forced us to improve to our full poten
tial.. continued on page 25
