CAMPUS WEEKMAY 15,16,17 j
VOL. XVIII NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATHURSDAY, MAY 6, 1924
SECRET EVENT OF FRIDAY IS 
DISCLOSED AS COUNTRY FAIR
Rare Exhibit of Rural Pro
duct and Rustic Sports to 
Provide Entertainment for 
Native Sons
TO STAGE WEDDING
The title of this little skit is "Sandy 
Spilled the Beans. In other words, 
the secret for Friday morning, 
Campus Week, is not any longer a 
secret. There is going to be a real 
old-fashioned Country Fair. Those 
students from Homestead, Munhall 
and points East Will know what we 
mean, but for the benefit of those 
who come from larger villages, wo 
will go into detail.
A committee, which has worked 
behind closed doors, has been suc
cessful in planning an honest-togoodness Fair, just like any country 
fair, which is held in the county seat. 
This fair will be held in the Bowl, 
and will last all morning, Friday. 
There will be the regular stock ex
hibits, in which prize cattle, sheep, 
hogs and other beasts, will be shown. 
These animals are the pick of the 
.shipments from the ranges, and from 
the real cattle, sheep, hog and other 
beast country. In addition to these 
exhibits, the Reiclc-McJunkin Company 
will have a Milk and Cream Booth, at 
which they will show the latest 
models in milk bottles, the latest 
thing in cream, and the most modern 
developments along the line of 11011- 
splashable bottle openers. Each child 
over 21 will be given a balloon, and 
no more than one balloon will bo 
'given to any child, regardless of the 
sick brothers and sisters who had to 
be left at home.
One of the features of the morning 
will be a pig race, in which the 
famous greased pig will be allowed to 
run amuck in tho crowd, and the per
son who catches this swine, shall be 
the*new owner of the slippery animal. 
The Oakland Riding Academy will 
furnish some of the horses for ex
hibition purposes, and the Hunt 
Armory will supply the riding horses. 
These animals are harmless, and all 
nf. the children will be encouraged to 
ride around the track. As a guaran
tee of the harmlessness of the 
beasts, certain members of the R. O. 
T. C. will ride them in full view of 
the spectators.
For the benefit of those who have 
come from distant points, and who 
may develop headaches, due to over
joviality on the evenings previous, a 
hospital tent will be conducted by 
members of the household economcis 
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
Work On Decorationsr 
For C. W. is Started
Futiristic Design Theme of 
This Years Decorations
Every day in every way it is com 
ing closer and closer. What isv 
Why, Campus Week, of course! 
Isnt that the stupendous event for 
which we are all waiting so patient
ly? And everyday it is coming 
closer, for the sign over the Com 
mons door says so. Every day one 
high number is struck off and a 
lower one tells the tale. Oh,- its 
slow of course, but it is sure.
It is also true that it is com 
ing closer in every way, for each
committee is accomplishing a little
bit more every day to make every
one havo the time of their life on 
tlie 15th, 16th and 17tli of this
month. Already the nominations 
for Campus Week Queen have been 
narrowed to three, and listen to 
what has been discovered about the 
decorations.
Tall Egyptian masts will raise 
their flowing streamers all over the 
campus. Across the middle of the 
cut there will be erected a great
pyramid made of cloth and covered 
with futeristique designs in many 
brilliant colors. In front of the Arts 
Building large lanterns, also Futuristique in design, will fill the four 
niches and on either end* towers 
such as one sees on the Greek and 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MENS INTER-DORM DANCE A
VERY SUCCESSFUL AFFAIR
The mens inter-dormitory dance 
has been insured as an annual affair 
due' to the success of the recent dance 
which was conducted under the au
spices of the Carnegie Architectural 
Society. Music was furnished for the 
dance by the Eve Hughes melody 
hounds, and was highly praised by 
many who attended.
The committee directly responsible 
for the success of the hop consisted 
of Duncan Doig, Dave Garber and 
W. S. Forsyth. The programs were 
an especially clever feature, being 
done in red with a very clever sketch 
as a frontispiece. The chaperones 
for the evening were Mr. and Mrs. 
Kirkpatrick, Miss Helm, Dean and 
Mrs. Tarbell, Dean Brown.
EXPRESS YOUR PREFERENCE
CLASS OFFICERS FOR 
NEXT YEAR CHOSEN
ROSALYN SCOTTJO GIBSONMARY SKURKY
Elections Are Held in Science, 
Industries, and College 
of Fine Arts
FINAL ELECTION 
OF QUEEN MAY 8
In pursuance of the plan inaugu
rated last year, all class and school 
elections are now held on the same 
day, thus greatly simplifying matters 
and making a positive check upon all 
votes possible. Carrying out tills 
plan, all the officers of the various 
colleges, with the exception of Mar 
garet Morrison, hold their elections 
last week.
The results of the elections are as 
follows:
Industries.
Senior ClassPresident, A. E. Mellor; vice president, G. H. Carl; treas
urer, T. R. Hughes; secretary, K. C. 
Korriman; senate representatives, D. 
K. Minis, R. W. Bankler.
Junior ClassPresident, .T.. Chris
toff and R. Rowley,  tie; treasurer, 
Coulter; secretary, G. W. Sannor. sen
ate representative; J. M. Goss; sonate treasurer. D. V. Beede; Thistle 
representatives, Murphy, Esch.
Sophomore Class  President, 
Forbes; vice president; Udd, treas
urer, Mitchell; secretary, Dodge; 
Thistle representative, Mitchell, Sny
der.
Athletic Council Representative 
II. E. Dykeman.
Science.
Senior ClassPresident, Geo. Slye; 
vice president, J. Schuclcert; treas
urer, F. C. Smith; secretary, J. 
Bright; Science Senate, R. Rlogelmeier, F. M. McClelland; Student
Council, C. H. James.
Junior ClassPresident, J. Raddin; 
vice president, F. W. Cook; treas
urer, J. Ward; secretary, A. F. Car
son; treasurer Science Senate, J. 
OConnor; representative Thistle
Board, J. Raddin, H. Strong, F. O. 
Loveland; representatives Science
Senate, F. L. Wagner, J. H. Harris.
SophomoresPresident, F. C. Flow(Conlinued on Page Four.)
Election Plan Has Worked 
Out to Perfection 
All Satisfied
This years Campus Week Com
mittee has done many things that 
no other committee has ever accom
plished. Their plans are going 
through with remarkable precision 
and force, and their arrangements 
seem to be meeting with every
body's approval.
Not the least of this committee's 
accomplishments is tho institution of 
a very fair and very eillcient method 
of voting for the Queen. In othor 
years, tho elections wore, no doubt, 
fair enough, but there was, neverthe
less, opportunity for stuffing the bal
lot. Under this years scheme, each 
student had an opportunity to vote 
but once. It was done in this man
ner:
As each man voted, tho girls in 
charge of the voting ln his school 
chocked his name off tho list of 
eligible voters, and if this same per
son would try to vote again, his 
name would bo found to be chocked, 
and his vote would bo destroyed.
The plan Worked admirably. On 
April 8, the first voting took place, 
and on this dny, fifteen girls wore 
chosen out of the entire Sonlor 
classes of Margarot Morrison and tho 
College of Fine Arts for tho corona
tion .maids. Then, on April 27, a 
second election was hold, and at this 
time, three girls were chosen out of 
tho fifteen. Tho throo thus choson 
aro Josephine - Gibson, Mary Skurky 
and ltosslyn Scott.
(Continued on Pago Two.)
PENNSYLVANIA COLLEGE
PRESIDENTS MEET HERE
The Association of College Prosi-: 
dents of Pennsylvania will hold its | 
spring mooting bore on Friday.
The first session of tho day will be, 
called at 10:30 a. m. in the Library 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Luncheon will be served to tho j 
mombors in tho the Union. In tho, 
afternoon, the program will be divided into two inspection visits, a 
visit to* tho Pennsylvania Collogo for j 
Women, where tea will bo sorvod by | 
the faculty, to the International Art j 
Exhibit at the Carnegio Institute.
CORONATION OF THE 
QUEEN THURS. N1TE
Ceremony Will be Beautiful 
Spectacle Depicting 
French Period
VARIETY SHOW BILL 
HAS STELLAR ACTS
Astonishing Assembly of the 
Serious and Frivolous 
to Open C. W.
CHOOSE BACCALAUREATE 
SPEAKER FOR THIS YEAR
Got Your Campus Week 
Tag Yet; On Sale Now
Wednesday is Last Day For 
Purchase of Tags
The tags for Campus Week wen 
on sale last Monday, and will pro!) 
ably be on sale until Wednesday, May 
14, the day before Campus Week. 
These tags cost one dollar, and will 
admit the holder to every scheduled 
event, with the single exception of 
the Blue Bandana, Thursday even
ing. This is even better than last 
year, when the Coronation Dance 
cost extra. Remember, though, that 
everyone must have a tag both boy 
and girl, before anyone will be ad
mitted.
Every student in school is expected 
to purchase at least one. There will 
be no limit placed upon the number 
of tickets which a student may se
cure, so get enough for everyone you 
expect to bring around. It s up to 
(Continued on Page Five.)
Carnegie Tech has been unusually 
fortunate this year in securing Dr. 
William Chalmers Covert to deliver 
the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, 
June 8. Dr. Covert comes here on the 
recommendation' of Rev. Hugh
Thompson Kerr, pastor of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian church. He 
is the general secretary of the Board 
of Christian Education of the Presby
terian Church of the United States of 
America.
Dr. Covert was born October 4, 18G4 
in Franklin, Indiana. He attended 
Hanover College, a member of the 
class of 1885, and was graduated from 
the McCormick Theological Seminary 
1888. He is a member of the Phi 
Delta Theta.
Entering the Presbyterian ministry 
(Lont limed r' Page Five.j
The Vaudeville Show on Thursday 
morning of Campus Woolc positively 
will not drag. Such Is tho undiluted 
statoinent of Herb Poloslo, director, 
stage managor, property man and 
call boy, as well as aclor, composer, 
adaptor and source of optimism.
When approached by a roportor 
Herb; as usual, shrank within him 
self, covorod with confusion am 
modesty. But, after a deal of quou 
tlonlng, he confossod that, unles 
something unforeseen happens Mn Lit 
meantime, tho Vaudovlllo Show wll 
bo tho most delectable of tho Campus 
Woelc offorlngs.
Tho show will he hold, as usual, 
In tho Carnegie Music Hall, and will 
bo supportod by all tho dramatic! 
fixtures and  api/urtenancos which I 
havo given past performances their I 
charmingly ingonuous flavor. Tho 
first character to tread tho boards! 
will bo tho Spirit of Campus Woolc, j 
who will glvo tho audience an lnlcllngj 
of the proper attitude to take during 
the noxt three days.
In part two, will como tho more, 
(Continued on Puge Four)
Tho most gorgeous and beautiful 
ceromony of Campus Woolc, tho 
Coronation of tho Queen will bogln a 
7 oclock on the evening of May If), 
at which hour the Royal Herald will 
sound his trumpet to aunouuco the 
beginning of tho event.
Each yoar tho coronation commltteos try to outdo provlous nocompllshmonts in tho line of beauty 
of sotting and offect, and from tho 
plan drawn up for this year, It 
oeniH safe to predict the mos 
beautiful ceromony Carnogio has ovor 
had on its campus.
Tho royal procession Is to start 
from Machinery Hall and travel up 
the boardwalk to tho front of tho 
Collogo of Fino Arts, where the 
crowning Is to talco placo, Mon from 
tho honorary fraternities will form 
a sort of police brigade to koop Ilio 
crowds off tho boardwalk as tho 
quoons oxalt Its wooden surface by 
walking on It. Lines of cropo paper 
will bo strotehod along tho pathway, 
so that It may bo kopt cleared of 
impetuous spectators, who might 
otherwise Interrupt tho stately prog* 
ross of tho march.
In tho procession, tho herald will 
como first, followed by tho maids of 
honor who, In turn, will bo followed) 
by tho archbishop, Tho Quoon will 
come last, which Is as It should be 
whon, of courso, she will be tho 
chief object of Intorest. Tho costume 
deslgnod for her Is to bo of white, 
trimmed and embroidered with 
(Continued on Page Flvo.)
TAP DAY TO LIBERATE 
PLEBES I ROM BONDAGE
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Anti-Bark Compound Developed
By Alumnus Revolutionizes B. L.
(Boot Legging.) 1
Once more a Carnegie alumnus has ! 
remonstrated the superiority of the ; 
variety of scientists turned out by j 
the Carnegie Institute by a developj 
ment in pure theoretical applied I 
technology in a most remarkable! 
piece of research carried out by the 
Bureau of Mines.
Peter Schuyler, the able individual,: 
graduated with the class of 03 and 
has since been engaged by the Pitts
burgh Experimental Station of the 
^Bureau of Mines, being the holder of 
one of the Mining Fellowships offered 
by this institution. During his stay 
at the Bureau he has brought to light 
a number of noteworthy discoveries 
and developments along the line of 
bucket shops and coal tips.
Schuyler continued along this kind 
of work until, in 1914, when he was
employed at the outbreak of the: 
great war by the Duchy of Luxem-j 
bourg to produce a silent dog, suitj 
able for trench warfare. After some i 
two years' of diligent research he pro-1 
duced a type of dog which rapidly bej 
came popular among the men In; 
trenches, and was the only type then i 
known which could weather trench 1 
conditions for three weeks and not: 
soften under the rigorous treatment, j 
These dogs were particularly good on | 
scents. At present Schuyler has ac\ 
cumulated quite a fortune through the 
sale of. them at soft drink parlors anu ! 
special hot dog stands.
Not content by this benefiting mankind. Schuyler continued his work 
and, in 1920. wa3 employed by Gover
nor Pinohot to investigate the severe j 
over-crowding of the dog pond in 
(Continued on Page Two.)
ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY
BECOMES ALPHA RHO CHI
The Carnegie Architectural Society 
has just been granted a charter in 
Alpha Rho Chi, a national profes
sional fraternity in architecture.
Evidence that the Department of 
Architecture has a good national 
standing is seen in the granting of 
this charter, as Carnegie Tech will 
be the only school in Pennsylvania 
which has been granted a charter. 
The members are, indeed, fortunate 
in becoming a part of this fraternity, 
.as it is highly recognized In profes
sional circles.
The future Alpha Rho Chi Is the 
oldest organization In thedepart
ment and one of the oldest on the 
Campus, having been organized In 
1912, and known as the Tech Archi
tectural Club until a reorganization 
took place In September, 1922, and 
the name was changed to Carnegie 
Architectural Society. Since that 
time the club has entered Into a 
greater range of^ Campus activities, 
with renewed Interest.
Members of the organization at the 
present time are: M. A. Brace, J. P.
Crowgey, G. A. Deacon, D. C. Doig, 
J. S. Douglass, W. S. Forsythe, D. S. 
Garber, A. K. Goehring, A. B. Lowstutter, C. A. Lundqulst, E. M. MeMillin, J. D Mawhiney, H. A. Page. 
P. H. Sload, J. E. TUlotson. L. R. 
Turcotte and J. S. Wood. Director 
McGoodwin acts as Faculty Advisor.
The chartering and installation will 
take place in the near future.
Look all around the paper, read 
the eulogies of. Campus Week, re
member what a good time you had 
last year, and then read this column.
There is no argument that our 
Campus Week is the best celebration 
ever, but it Is foolish to say or even 
to think that it is perfect of its kind. 
This year, with the exclusion of the 
outsiders, it will nearest approach 
perfection, because witfT t7le exclu
sion of the outsider, it is hoped to 
exclude liquor also. There, the whole 
secret is out.
The one thing wrong with our 
celebration, the one condition of 
Campus Week that is not perfection, 
is the presence of alcohol around the 
campus. It seems too bad that, with 
such great plans laid as are in prep
aration now, certain types of stu
dents will spoil everything with their 
"wildness, or at least what passes 
with them for wildness. What it 
really is is youthful craving for new 
excitementthat, and youthful curi
osity.
Dont you think its time to grow 
up? A long time ago, perhaps, when 
you were In high school, or a plebe 
in college, it seemed terribly wicked 
to take a little liquor, but them days 
Is gone forever for the upper classes, 
and nearly gone for. the freshmen 
Lets make this a real week, a 
Campus Week with the good old 
Tech spirit fundamentally Carnogio, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
This is tho story of Qualification 
Daythe day to which every Plebe 
has been looking forward for tho past 
eight monthstho day on which tho 
lowly Plebe Is qualified to become a 
full-11 edged momber of tho Carnogio 
Clan with all rights and privileges at
tached to Such membership.
Obviously then this story Is ad
dressed primarily to the Plebes but 
upper classmen too, will find some
thing of interest since the days pro
gram of events will be unfolded for 
the first time.
For the benefit of those Plebes who 
have thus far failed to grasp the sig
nificance of Qualification Day, what it 
means, what It stands *for, a word of 
explanation will be helpful.
Briefly, It is the day selected to free 
the Plebe from bondagethe day on 
which Old Man Plebe Regulations is 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ON WITH THE PRACTICE;
KIDDIE KARS ARRIVE
MEETING OF STUDENT
CLUB FRIDAY EVENING
A bus'nens meeting of Student 
Club will be held at the Lutheran 
Student House, Friday evening. May 
9, 1921. Plana for-the ensuing year 
will be discussed, including the pur
poses and advantages of the club. 
The election of delegates to attend 
the Silver Bay and Eaglesmere con
ferences in June will take place at 
this meeting.
Tho Kiddie Kars are here! De
spite many predictions to the con
trary. the girls are actually going to 
use Kiddie Kars in the girls sweep
stakes. You may have noticed them 
on the cut and on Woodlawn practic
ing. The race is to be run from 
Central Building, down Woodlawn 
and back. One girl will ride and 
r.he 'other push, The costumes' aro 
being kept secret, because a peronal prize Is to be awarded by Mortar 
Board to the girls with the host 
costumes. The Athletic Association 
will award a cup to the set that 
wins the raco. Kiddle Kars, pretty 
girls, colorful costumes the race 
may not be speedy, but It certainly 
should be picturesque!
Tho other big event, which the 
girls are working on, Is the Women's 
Banquet, which will be bold In the 
Commons on Saturday at 5:30, The 
classes will sit together as much as 
possible. Helen Johnston is to be 
toast mistress. Tho program is to 
include a little talk by Mlllicent 
Leech, class of 1915, on "Then and 
Now, anti a talk by Miss (Breed on 
the "American Association of Uni
versity Women. The Stringers will 
furnish the music, but part of the 
program is being kept secret, in or
der to introduce a little of the sur
prise element.
BLUE BANDANA" TICKETS MAY 
NOW BE BOUGHT ON CAMPUS
COLLEGIATE IMPS PLAY AT
DANCE AFTER SHOW THURS.
What are you going to do after tho 
"Blue Bandana performance, Thurs
day evening? If you dont know, here 
is tho solution.
There is to bo a dance at the Rittenhouse, and none other than tho 
famed Collegiate Imps to accompany 
you in the ter ps ichor Gan art. For 
those who do not care to dance, a 
bridge party is sehedulod. This dance 
and bridge is to bo hold for tho bene
fit of the Pennsylvania College for 
Women, ondowment and building 
fund.
Malco that date now! The dance, a 
specialty affair, is within the roach 
of every purse. The assessment Is 
$1.25. Dancing from 9 to 1. Tickets 
may bo socured by calling Mrs. E. K. 
Coyle at Hiland 7300.
GRAVE SITUATION 
THREATENS C. W.
Can Impending Disaster be 
Averted by Strategy 
of Sporran ?
After sovoral woolcs of oarnost 
cogitation the Campus Week Commltteo has turned ovor to Tho Spor
ran what may become one of tho 
biggest questions throatoniug Campus 
Week Itself. Following a remark 
of Dr. Itlttman vhat money Is always 
tight at this time of tho year, tho 
subjoct of loosening It. up at onco 
was given much serious considera
tion.
tlavlng discussed tho pros and 
cons of tlio question In vain, tho 
general committee at last turned the 
matter ovor to Tho Sporran ln dis
gust, In hopes that the august staff 
of that publication might find some 
way of alleviating this unl'ortunato 
condition,' A brief consideration of 
Ways and Means Was the Immediate 
out-orop of I his act and Tho Sporran 
now has a feasible working plan 
ready to put Into operation.
The plan has boon fully outlined 
and, having met the unanimous ap
proval of the Campus Woolc Com
mittee, shall bn divulged at. all the 
bouses and dormitories by specially 
Instructed representatives who havo 
very kindly volunteered to dissemi
nate the Information concern lug thin 
plan. Boing well awaro el' the in
ability of a llnotypor to properly sot 
up copy, Tho Sporran belloves It 
nocoHsary to lake recourse to tills 
method that no mlsunderstandlnK 
may result.
The method adopted Is based on 
sound theory and tried facts; It 
shall be known as Tlio Sporran 
Weekly Savings Method. Although 
It. Is feared that the plan will bo of 
little value this yoar, the staff Is 
assured that by noxt year overyono 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Committees Selected 
For 1924 Senior Week
Mew Invitations Secured for 
Graduating Class
The Senior Week Committoe has 
completed tho selection of tho per
sonnel of the various committees, 
which will have charge of the Senior 
Week Events. The complete roster 
of the students who are arranging 
for Senior Week is as follows:
General chairman, E. It. Patton; 
treasurer, Ell Is Robertson;.
Sonlor BanquetA. B. Lowstutter 
(chairman), D. A. Sclioerge, Don 
Sonneman, Dyke.
Commencement BallM. A. Brace 
(chairman), E. F. Brown, E. P, 
Couse, J. B. Whitman.
Caps and GownsW. G. Sullivan 
(chairman), Gretchen Hoffman, Mar
jorie Cook, Joseph Davis, William 
Ahearn,
Women's Senior Swim  Grace 
Moore (chairman), Dorothy Chal
mers, Helen Johnson, Evelyn Toot.
Womens, Luncheon  Josephine 
(Continued on Page Five.)
Travesty on Bandit Life in 
the Big City Promises tr 
Thrill Capacity Audiences 
at Both Performances
PLAY IS MELODRAMA
Thursday evening. May 15, the stu
dents of the Drama Department will 
present tho Campus Week Show at tho 
Schenley Theater. Tho play, which is 
a travesty, was written by Hubert 
Osborne, and will bo presented under 
the name which he gavo it, "The Blue 
Bandana.
Of courso, tlio local Interest in ho 
play is ono of the big features of it, 
for tho Blue Bandana Gang was no
toriously featured by newspapers in 
this section of tho country. The gang 
consisted of several young men, who 
didnt exactly abide by the teachings 
of their elders, and who committed 
many murders, robberies and other 
crlmos in the Pittsburgh district. Mr. 
Osborno has written a molodramatlc 
mystery play with the namo of that 
gang to excite interest. The play has 
to roly upon tho dual personality 
which is ombodlcd in It. There :1s, by 
some trick of fate, such a striking 
tlkenoss between tho vllli'inous crook 
of tho play and tho old millionaire, 
that the uudlonco will have to lceop 
right up with the "Libretto to find 
out which Is who, and whore. Tills 
Is just what Mr. Osborno wanted to 
do, and ho has done It. Paul Mc
Grath, who plays both parts, Is qulto 
able to look like himself, and for that 
reason ho fools tho public.
Tho show opens with a female mem
ber of tho robbor gang attempting to 
ojion a safe, without tho aid of tho 
combination. We might say the fomalo momber of tho cast, for thoro is
but one girl In tlio whole show...Joan
Blaltp being l.ho lucky woman. Of 
course whon one booh such a crime 
as this dopictod on the stage, ono Im
mediately smells a rat, and tho rest 
of tho play Is In keeping with this 
detection.
As tor the business end of the show, 
nothing can bo said which would bo 
too creditable to tho managers. Run 
Clement, who Is In charge of tho Stu
dent Show, Thursday night, Is rapidly 
losing weight due to his efforts to 
malco the evening a big one. He has 
loft nothing undone, and ho lias un
done many things In his efforts, hut 
ho promlsos to show the students 
something about managing a Broad
way hit, for, you know, tlio "Blue 
Bandana opens on Broadway noxt 
fall.
Joo Major, the man In the box tor 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Mardi Gras is to be . 
Cayest of Carnivals
Decorations, Music, Costumes. 
Make Grand Spectacle
This years Mardi Gras Is to bo 
the most brilliant, most fantastic, 
and most gorgeous carnival that tho 
oyos of men havo ovor looked upon. 
That Is, tho common declaration of 
all tho members of the general 
Campus Week Committoe, tho Board 
of Directors of the affair, which resorves to Itself the task of managing 
the outstanding event of the threeday program.
The decorations, the music, the 
costumes, the system of admissions,  
tho noveltiesall the result of care
ful planning, combine to make tlio 
Mardi Gras of May 1G a festival of 
gaiety and splendor. Campus con-, 
versation already Indicates student 
Interest surpassing any of previous 
record, and makes certain for. that 
night the sparkle and exuberant 
spirits (non-alchohollc) which always 
distinguish the merrymakers at Car
negies greatet frolic.
The revelers will shimmy, toddle, 
shuffle, hesitate and glide across the 
polished floors of the Gymnasium, 
and the Langley Laboratory. Those 
two buildings will be disguised as 
the royal residences of that futuristic 
couple, Hap Hazard and Polly 
Chrome. The waMs and celling will 
(Continued on Pago Five.)
No Performance at Davis Theatre 
C. W. Vaudeville Ruins Keith House
After seeing the lenfatlvo program 
of the Campus Week Vaudeville 
Show, B, I1. Kell.h, big potential and 
high urnpty-ump of the Keith cir
cuit, threw three fits and a back
flip, causing Barnum & Baileys 
chief contortionist to turn green 
v/lth envy, "Ono more Campus 
Week and Ill bo without even a bod 
to my name, walls Kolthlo himself. 
Just to cheer him up, I says to him, 
says I, "Look here, wo dont Intend 
to put any short In your crlcull. 
Were Just going to have one per-, 
formance, so give your show a day 
off .nd cut out the sob stuff. Then 1 
Keith le says to me, he says, "The j 
thing lm worrying about aint cut
ting out the one perforriiance, but! 
after seeing your show, the public j 
gets high bat and thinks it ought to j 
have that kind of a Show down here!
ill. tho Davis. And, you know darn 
! woll, wo cant put across anything 
j like thut,
j Thoro aint a darn thing we can 
j do for Keith, now Is thoro? lie tried 
lo bribe us to cut out some of our 
best kicks In Iho show, but you 
. know,. we gotta have girls la It and.
beside that, we gavo you a lot of 
; dope In tlio last. Tartan, and were 
! going to stick to It, If we have to 
| buy out Le Pages.
There's gonna be a prolgue. We 
don't need It at all, but ono of the 
chorus girls just got a new cigarette 
holder for her birthday from home, 
and she wants to see how she looks 
in the spotlight with it. So, she'll 
spout for about five minutes, and 
mebbie therell be some more out In 
front with her. The prologue will 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
INSURANCE
SERVICEMember Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................5300,000.00
Surplus......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
for the same price
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
Dess Suits To Rent
Tuxedos for the College Man
ORDERj EARLY 
For the Next Formal
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield 0341 Hours8:30-5
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENTJE
East LibertyAt Sheridan Square
PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTHURSDAY, MAY 8, 1924
Open House for Interfraternity Migratories! MIGRATORY DANCE I FRATERNITY MEN 
IS FIRST FEATURE READY FOR RACE
Fraternity Sweepstakes Course
Rivalry Among Fratemites Course is Ready For Annual 
Will Produce SpecCompetition of the
tacular Effects push Mobiles
,1Alpha Tau Omega, 254 Bellefield Avenue
2Delta Phi Delta, 356 North Craig Street
3Pi Kappa Alpha, 4807 Baum Boulevard
4Delta Upsilon, 4822 Baum Boulevard
5Kappa Epsilon, 220 South Rebecca Street
6Kappa Sigma Rho, 444 Ambcroon Avenue
7Kappa Sigma, 624 Clyde Street
8Acacia630 Clyde Street
9Delta Tau Delta, 4902 Forbco Street_
10Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 4915 Forbes Street
11Sigma Nu, 4921 Forbes Street
12Sigma Epsilon Phi, 4929 Forbes Street
13Theta Xi, 5017 Forbes Street
14lota Sigma Delta, 5601 Wilkins Avenue
15Delta Chi Rho, 1408 Wightman Street
16Beta Theta PI, 5549 Forbes Street
17Delta Mu, Shady Avenue
18Woodlawn, 5814 Forbes Street
19Beta Sigma Rho, Wightman Street__
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued Prom Pago Ono.) 
not Scotch bottled by some person 
who 15 uneducated in Carnegie tradi
tion.
What wo want our Campus Week
Compliments
Skibo Inn
ammmmummmummmmmmmm;
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with tho 
HEACOCK PLAN
and earn a good income while 
learning.; wo show you how; 
hogln actual work at onoo all 
or BpfU'Q tlmo; oxporlonco unnoooflsary; no can vanning. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newawrltors Training Bureau 
019 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
to bo is a celebration that In one 
royal good time, but a good time 
that we can all look back upon with 
no regrets, just a general remem
brance ol joyouBnesH and fun.
The uneducated man Is the only 
ono who believes that liquor is necensary for a good time. If you think 
so, then you are admitting that your 
years of school have done you no 
good. You aro not educated above 
the train of thought of tho dlin
quant boy of twelve or thirteen years 
of ago.
Lets make this week perfectab
solutely so. We all kpow it can bo 
done. Bach year is an improvement 
on tho last, they say, but if wo try 
hard, we can make this years Cam
pus Week so good that it can never 
be excelled.
Its all in tho point or vlow, you 
know; all in tho way you loojc at a 
thing, whether it will bo easily ac
complished. Tho way to look at this 
matter, dont you think, is that you 
aro equal to having a good tlmo 
yourself, and showing someone olso 
one, too, without the aid of external 
stimulant?
Pride in itself is a mighty stimu
lant, and our pride in our Alma Mator 
will, no doubt, no inflate us in this 
historic woolc now so close upon us, 
that wo will need no othor.
Clot into tho spirit of tho tiling. 
Lot nothing spoil our shown and 
races and dances. Lot tho bounty of. 
tho coronation Itriko tho rr&^noto for 
tho wholo ovont, a note that wo aro 
to try to IIvo up to, ono of beauty 
and prido, and a groat thrill of suc
cessful accomplinhmont of stupendous 
plans.
For tho nlghtn of May 1-1, IB, 10 
and 17, may wo all romombor that 
Carnogio com on first, and ourselves 
nooond. II' wo all no conduotod ournolvon that wo brought nothing hut 
groator nuooosn to Campus Woolc 
thon would our glorious "tlmo oft" 
ho brought to tho hlghonl, poalc of 
parfool: rofiultn, and wo could pans 
tho tradition on, unspoiled by any 
nolflnh notion of oure.
NO PERFORMANCE AT DAVIS
THEATER; C. W. VAUDEVILLE 
RUINS KEITH HOUSE
rip-snorting song specialty, featuring 
sampler song stuff, as only-l-Ialden 
and Polesie ltnow how to put over. 
Gallagher and Shean dont know 
nuthin.
The tango dance by the famous 
international team, composed of Ann 
Luria and Warren Kimball, will 
demonstrate tho utter futility of try
ing to outdo them in this highest of | 
terpaichonean art. Love, hateah,
Wednesday evening, May 14, the 
inter-fraternity Migratory Dance will 
usher in Campus Week. What more 
agreeable harbinger could be imagin
ed, after that last strenuous lecture 
and that laat tiresome lab period be
fore our brief but joyful holiday!
The Migratory Dance has ever 
proven ono of the most delightful oceasionB of tho year, party because 
It is the-first event of Campus Week, 
and partly because it is so different. 
You get a powerful kick out of pro
gressing round from house to house, 
seeing the remarkable decorations 
(for there is much competition to 
show originality); filling the wassail 
here, and indulging in a timely bite 
of pastry at tho next place; danc
ing between bites, and finding every
body you know having a grand and 
glorious time.
Every fraternity on and off the 
campus will have open house, just 
freshly house-cleaned, and each, of 
course, will procure the best posr 
Bible orchestra with every instru
ment in working condition tuned; 
that evening. Here is something 
you dont want to miss. Start Campua Week right by studying the lo
cation of every house. Note the 
pretty map.
The A. T. O.'a will Stage their an
nual reunion of members in the K. 
of C. hall, where they will hold their 
dance. All other fraternities, so far 
as is known, will hold them in their 
own houses.
day, May Oth. The place will be at 
the juncture of the Cut and Wood
lawn avenue, where there lias been 
erected a massive structure, sufficient, 
what masters oC tlio feet'and limbs It in said, to withstand tho rush tor 
you shall see In this Act III. I tlcketo. An armed guard, picked from
. . ,,, rnl,   I the best of the R. O. T. C. will pre-Then comes Act IV. The Comedy . . . . .c. 6 i i , in ino vent any disturbance from arising, orSplit And this will feature no less * ,, . ... ,, ,1 , c n +inn, tjni at least from continuing, and the salethan tho talent of all talentsHal-, i ah (14V nr , >4 W1 continue throughout the noonden and Albright! We cant give ' ... , _ ..... .. , . ... .__hour with much gusto. Someone willyou all tho dopo on thisits too , . .. , , , , i . > be in the box continually, 5, any per-good to give out ahead of time. But . , J*. ,,4ii i i  4. n son who may have to wait until aftertho manager of this show kin tell , . ii4i i . I., i  I lunch, will have a chance as well asyou right here and now that there|
wont bo a pie loft unthrown to roll i . .. . .. \ v. I standing in line. ' Youyou out of your seat.8 in paraxysms
of sheer joy. Bring your own handOne week from Saturday, a few 
minutes after 10 a. m. the Sweep
stakes will be a matter of history and 
two handsome cupa will be adorning 
the mantle piece of some lucky fra
ternity. These cups have been do
nated by the Alpha Tau fraternity. 
One is being given for design and the 
other for speed. The cup for design 
will be awarded before the start of 
the race. The competition this year 
promises to be keen both for the 
speed cup and also for design. Fa
mous engineers have been busy for 
months designing some of these de
mons of speed and beauty and it has 
been rumored that some youthful 
Tommy Murphys have already been 
cavorting around the course during 
the dead of night.
The race will start promptly at 10 
a. m. when Official Starter Doc Marks 
fires the gun. This year the race is 
starting in front of Central Building 
and is finishing at the Arts School 
boardwalk. The crowd will be able 
to witness both the start and the fin
ish from one place. It is urgently re
quested that everyone keep off the 
course. In past years good cars have 
been prevented from winning be
cause their course was blocked.
The Mens Sweepstakes will be pre
ceded by the girls kiddy car race at
a. m. This should be a thriller. 
Special pains will be taken to keep 
the course as unobstructed as pos
sible, and spectators who chance to 
get in the path of any of the speed 
demons will be run down indiscrimi
nately. Faculty members are espe
cially cautioned. The committee 
waives all responsibility for losses of 
limbs, umbrellas and appetites. It 
has, however, secured an ambulance 
which will be stationed on the Schen
ley Park bridge.
The course of the sweepstakes is 
outlined in the map shown above 
and tile marshals of the course will 
condemn any vehicles found taking 
short cuts through the park.
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
bo given in ton different languages 
campus vernacular, class-room 
Wololi, fraternity liouso slang, otc. 
There wont bo a. prof, student or 
child left in doubt as to tho stuff 
thoyro gonna 5,,7
And then tho fun commencea, 
Sixteen ex-janitors and fivo street 
cleaners will bo distributed through
out tho house with mops and pails 
to wipe up tho tear-drops of joy.
On with Act IIa side-splitting,
DAVIES and HUGHES
MENS WEARj
S615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
Skibok bo Innd takis lbmi
aod cnals us lnts mnri mnoiy, 
but bt kbvis ynu bittir tnbaccn
Velvet is made from the best Kentucky 
Burley lolincco money can buy, and every 
liit of it thoroughly aged in wood. It is 
mild, line flavored and smokes cool. 
Romomboraged in wood.
kerchief. Absolutely none will be 
sold at tho dooiB.
Last weekOhio Newman bought a 
Hinging canary that came from the 
South Sea Isles, and hes training 
tho thing to warble. You know Obie 
doosnt need any vocal training, but 
woll bet that the winged South Sea 
Islander and Ohio liavo worked out 
Homo trick stuff thatll make you feel 
guilty for not stopping in at the 
florists to buy 5,VVV, roses for this 
star. And Ohio has a partner. Oh 
boy! Sho is aomo partnor, is Graco 
Brodorick! You know what that 
moana.
Thoro havo boon all kinds of melo
dramas, but woro hotting tho old 
homestead against tho price of tho 
show that you aint soon nuthin like 
tho ono that goon Under tho minihor of Act VI. Tho molodramor will 
bo Orphans of l.lio Storm, and tlio 
football mon will do it. You know 
a melodrama in norloun and brings 
toarn to tho oyon, Wal, thoros going 
to bo mi original sort of seriousness 
to thin dramer, says tho football 
actors and, an for the tears-well, 
thoyro gonna bo thoro, too. Youll 
bo ralsod to tho fullest heights of 
omotion and thrllldom. it in ru
mored that a genuine baby's milk 
bottle will bo Used throughout tho 
play by tho orphans and, besidos, a 
shipment of blbbu is on its way from
downtown. , , ,, , , , ,, , ,... , ... ... ,.TT ... ni i and all checks shall bo made payiAnd then tho VII Acttlio Girl . ~ T mI11 , . , , , to Q. L. Tilbroolc. The cost ofFinale!! Holy smokos, what an ar
ray of charm its going to be. Ahaolutoly every knock out for looks 
will be in it. Think of twenty-seven 
Carnegio beautieB, all on the stage 
at tho samo time. Wo wont say 
what theyre gonna do in this final 
act. The tickets are reasonable at 
twice tho prico.
The musical scores and orchestra
tions have been carefully worked out 
by Bob Arthur and his orchestra.
Tho settings are by Albright. Four
teen car loads of David Belascos pet 
scenery are on their way from New 
York City. Paul' Poiret has been in
duced to drape the leading women 
and chorus girls. He will be here in 
person.
Folks, this is gonna be a real show, 
and we dont mean perhaps. One 
C .W. Tag will admit you.
go hungry
standing in line. '' You recall, "many 
are called but few chosenwell, ap
ply that to this.
On nccount of the experiences of 
previous years, the managers request 
that no person shall try to buy more 
than four seata, for it causes hard
ships, hard feelings, and makes the 
task of even distribution difficult. The 
committee can do no more than make 
this request, for there is no means 
of checking up on the sales, but it is 
hoped that the students will comply 
with the wishes of the committee.
Manager Major, who has the show 
for Alumni Night says ho is going to 
soe to it that his performance shall 
surpass that of Manager Clement. 
Manager Clement, on the other hand, 
says that no performance ever has 
come up to tho standard he has set 
for Thursday evening, and no other 
show but tho Blue Bandana ever 
will enjoy such a performance. This 
sooniB to bo a battle between man
agers, but It will result in a suporb 
effort on tho part of each one, and a 
supremo presentation of tlio show. 
In order to make his end of the show 
tlio host, Managor Major han lcopt tho 
real facts concerning tlio performance 
a socrot from tho students, and has 
allowed only tlio alumni to dolvo deeply into tho plans. Any alumnus who 
has not hoard all about tho oven Ing, 
should got in touch with any other 
alumnus, and thereby learn of the 
plans. The tickets for tho alumni will 
be handled through tlio alumni office 
able 
the
tickets is one dollar, and an additiona 
sum of fifteen cents is to be added to 
the total cost to insure mailing, and 
to cover postage.
For the benefit of tho students, the 
sale of tickets will be conducted dem
ocratically. This does not mean that 
Socialists and, Republicans cannot get 
tickets, but it means that everyone 
has an equal chance, provided he or 
she can shove well. Every, or each 
seat in the house will be sold at the 
same price, one dollar ($1.00), and 
there will be no favorites. The man 
in the booth will be blindfolded to 
prevent his selecting the best seats 
for his best friend. Remember, May 
6tli, today! Try and get em!
Ijggett & Mtehs Tobacco Co.
WORK ON DECORATIONS
FOR C. W. IS STARTED
(Continued From Page One.) 
Russian churches will be built.
Add to all this a great many col
ored cones to be hung about the 
center pole in Langley Lab. from 
beneath which the orohestra will 
send forth their notes of joyous jazz; 
and in tho Gym, a myriad hall, a 
world of tiny mirrors, upon which 
varl-colorod spotlights will play, 
ending forth a wealth of colors 
which can only ho imagined. With 
such docoratlons t.o give color and 
a festive appear an co to tho campus, 
who cun doubt that overyono will 
havo "tho tlmo of Ills life?"
BLUE BANDANA TICKETS 
GO ON SALE AT 11:20
THIS MORNING
GRAVE SITUATION
THREATENS C. W,
of others who will also co-operate 
in this scheme, but their names may 
not yet be published for reasons of 
policy.
The students are requested to give 
this matter their utmost attention, 
and the fact is emphasized that only 
by their co-operation can The Spor
ran be truly successful.
ANTI-PARK COMPOUND
DEVELOPED BY ALUMNUS 
REVOLUTIONIZED B.
(Continued From Page One.) 
the Pittsburgh district. Following 
three months of patient work, gather
ing statistics and bad habits, Schuy
ler reported that the antipathy toward 
dogs was mainly a manifestation of 
tho dislike the neighbors displayed 
when the poor canine creatures in 
duced . insomnia by crooning sere' 
nudes under their windows in the 
small hours of the night. Obviously 
tlio only two remedies available were 
chloroform and an anti-bark com
pound,
Due to the high prico of chloroform 
then prevailing, 'Schuyler undertook 
to develop an anti-bark compound, 
and for the past several years lias 
boen making notable strides. Six
teen dogs, housed in the roar of the 
Bureau, as most Science men havo 
hoard, were the self-sacrificing sub
jects. For a long time the work 
seemed in vain, but tho other day a 
Tartan reporter attended a Me 
chanics class, and when the usual 
canine chorus from across the 1avino 
failed to interrupt the profs lecture, 
his curiosity was aroused and the fol
lowing investigation brought the above 
facts to light. The essential report 
was, however, that the search is com
pleted and that soon every drug store 
will be selling Schuylers anti-barlc 
compound. Just imagine, when the 
landlord will no longer tell the pros
pective tenant, We dont take no 
dogs, but. lie will welcome the wan
derer with open arms.
The anti-barlc compound is about 
90 proof, and a dog is as good as a 
perscription under the new regime,
FINAL ELECTION OF
QUEEN
Continued From Page One.) 
will be prosperous enough to afford 
a costume for the Mardi Gras.
A number of bolder and more 
progressive students have already 
indicated their willingness to assist 
In explaining this plan, and it will 
be well to mention them here. The 
names that are available, so far are: 
R. Riegelmeier, J. S'cliuclcert, H. N. 
Smith, V. B. Smith, P. Bowron, H. 
Rassbuch, L. Stimmler, F. Wagner, J. 
B. Whitman, L. F. Vogt, M. S. 
Downes, George Slye, P. Seaman, J. 
Steen, C. Lundqulst, W. Senlcus, R. 
Maglll. Thoro are quito a number
Chewing Gum Aids Digestion
By C. Hoaaton Goudisa 
National Authority on Nutrition 
Publiuher of The ForecastAmericas Leading Food Magazine
Everyone knows we are given to eating more than we 
actually need, but when the table is heaped with good 
food, "whats a feller to do?
Things are so tempting, and so palatablel Why not 
enjoy them?
But many a heavy meal which is hugely enjoyed 
during the process of eating is far from enjoyable dur
ing the process of digestion 1
. Then it is that chewing gum comes to the rescue.
Dr. W. A. Evans,' former commissioner of health in 
Chicago, says in his book, How to Keep Well:
"To chew gum after a meal aids digestion. Most 
people do not chew their food long enough to mix 
saliva with it thoroughly. The chewing of gum adds 
some saliva to the stomach contents. It is of more 
service in stimulating the stomach muscle. It is espe
cially serviceable in helping the stomach to empty its 
contents. If one has overeaten and the stomach is 
heavy something is gained by chewing gum for half an 
hour, beginning two hours after eating. And it also 
helps to keep the teeth clean.
Chicle, the base of chewing gum, is the milky juice 
which is secreted by the inner bark of a tropical tree 
known as the Achras Sapota.
Only during the rainyseason arc tlib trees bled.
After being refined and sterilized, the chicle is mixed with sugar and 
flavoring and moulded into the familiar form which has become so 
popular.
BlacdinoChicloTrca
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
tho Alumni Night is wearing out tho ! 
hull as far as tho Alumni office, and ! 
they have taken down the swinging 
gate in the office, to enable him to 
navigate more easily. He has com
muned with the spirits of each and 
every Alumnus and Alumnae, and he 
says that the house will be packed to 
the fire escapes on Saturday evening, 
May 17th.
The sale of tickets for the show 
opens immediately after you have 
read this articleor, to be more ex
act, 11:23, daylight saving time, TuesShowing!
ON
Monday
AT
Skibo Inn
Broad Street 
Clothiers, Inc.
NEW YORK
Clothes of 
Conservative Smartness
(Continued From Page One.)
The third election will be held on 
May S, and this last vote will de
termine our Queen for the year 1924! 
What kind of a Queen will she be? 
One of the girls is a blond, one 
brunette and one has that shade of 
hah* known as Titian, or in our 
American dialect, red. Whatever 
shade everybody prefers, it is sure 
to be found in this representative 
group.
The thing for everybody to do is 
to vote, not just a few from a col
lege, but. everybody who is registered 
in that college. At the recent elec
tion, the men in Industries and 
Science seemed to think it was too 
much trouble to. stop and hand their 
votes in for the maiden of their 
choice. There was no excuse for 
this, bocause pictures of the girls 
wore furnished, as woll as ballots 
and pencils. Surely, it is not too 
much trouble to write a girls name 
on a strip of paper?
At tho final election, on May S, 
we want to see everybody come out 
and vote. The more who hand in 
their choices, the more representa
tive the girl finally elected will be. 
When it is all for the glory of Car
negie, everyone should regard it as 
au actual duty to hand in a vote.
From May S until the Queen is an
nounced oil Thursday morning, May 
15, the suspense will, no doubt, be 
very high, indeed. One thing we do 
know, whoever the Queen may be, 
she is bound to be both beautiful 
and popular, judging from the three 
semi-finalists, one of whom will be 
our Queen.
Symbol of Real Quality
Get Extra Credits at Home
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociotogy, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.i request.
ijt lmbcttp of Cljicago
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
!PLAID ATHLETICS
HIGH SCHOOL 
MEET TO DRAW 
LARGE CROWD
SKIBO TRACK TEAA\S 
WIN IN DUAL MEETSOn the Plaid Screen
Representative Meet Assured 
With Fifty Schools From 
Five States Participating 
1,000 Individual Entries
Allegheny College Bows to 
Varsity; Plebes Beat 
Schenley High
E. C. FRAZIER
To tlie casual observer, it was nc 
doubt raining in the vicinity of the 
Skibo field last Saturday afternoon. 
And to a group
SPRING SPORTS IN FULL BLOOM
Things have been a bit slow, athletically, since the closing of the basket ! 
ball season, but from now on until the close of school there will be som-! 
thing doing nearly every afternoon. Both the track and tennis teams havo j 
proven their strength and a good contest iu either sport is assured; so come 
out and cheer for the team. It helps.
THE INTER-SCHOLASTIC MEET
Next Saturday the eighth annual inter-scholastic track meet takes place j
TECH vs. ALLEGHENY
____________ i
The Interscholastic Track Meet, to 
be held here on Saturday, the tenth 
of May, is certain to draw a big crowd 
of interested spectators. Being as it 
is, the largest and most important 
meet of the kind in this section of 
the country, the attention of follow
ers of Tri-State athletics is pretty 
well centered on it. A truly repre
sentative meet is also assured, as 
more than fifty schools, coming from 
five different states, are participating. 
The individual entries amount to near
ly on thousand.
On the same day, the Carnegie var
sity track team will run a dual meet 
with Allegheny College. With this 
double attraction, then, there should 
be no lack of interest, and all stu
dents are urged to grace the affair 
with their individual and collective 
presence, the more so as it is desired 
to make a very good impression on 
the visiting school boys. Let it be re
membered that this very track meet 
has contributed not a little to the fame 
and prestige of Carnegie Tech among 
the secondary schools, and is respon
sible for a great deal of the friendly 
relations now prevailing with out
siders. Also, the maintenance of our 
popularity in thfe district will depend 
to a large extent on the impressions 
gathered by these high school teams. 
Therefore, it behooves every Carnegie 
student to do his utmost in entertain
ing and interesting the visitors and to 
that end attendance at the meet is es
sential, for empty bleachers do not 
inspire. Fraternities are already co
operating by taking care ofsome 
nineteen high schools on Friday 
night.
Following the track meet, a dinner 
will be given for the visiting boys, 
which will be held in the Commons 
and under the direction of the Athlet
ic Association, the Alumni Office, and 
the Y. M. C. A. Although this has 
never before been attempted, there is 
nothing to hinder its success and 
everything points to a wonderful af
fair.
This year marks the eighth annual 
meet of this kind and should easily 
be the banner year. For some time 
after the first meet development was 
slow and the affair continued in a 
rather narrow scope, the number of 
schools competing often not exceed
ing 15. This lack of expansion was 
due to the fact that the Interschol
astic Track Meet was included with 
the regular track meet and under the 
supervision of the varsity track man
ager. Last year, however, a special 
manager was appointed by the Athlet
ic Council to take charge of this one 
meet only. C. N. Hollingsworth, as 
this first manager, devoted himself to 
the task with such zeal that the affair 
assumed its present prominent posi
tion, not only on the campus but 
throughout the Tri-State district. 
This year the direction of the meet is 
in the capable hands of H. P. Rassbach, formerly assistant to Hollings
worth.
As to the actual running-off of 
events, highly competent officials 
have been secured, jimong them being 
such well* known men as Mr. John T. 
Taylor of the A. A. U., Mr. A. C. Couch 
of the A. A. U., Mr. Joseph Wagman, 
Mr. Haddock and Mr. Blum. All of 
them boast enviable reputations as 
national or sectional track officials. 
In addition many of the instructors on 
the campus are acting in various ca
pacities as aiding in the work.
Trial heats for the high school 
teams will begin at 10:30 a. m. Sat
urday, while the varsity meet will 
commence at 2 p. m. All track events 
will be held on Tech Field, but for the 
weight events it will be necessary to 
utilize part of the campus adjoining 
the cut.
The awards and prizes bespeak the 
quality of the meet. Besides the cus
tomary gold, silver and bronze indi
vidual medals, there will be present
ed to the three winners of the relay 
races beautiful twenty-two inch silver 
cups. Then, for the meet winner, 
there has been procured a most pre
tentious and elaborate cup, comparing 
favorably with the trophy of a nation
al competition, and altogether a most 
desirable emblem of victory.
No pains have been spared to assure 
the athletic success of the meet. May 
the student body assure its success 
socially as well.
New York, Jamestown; Maryland, 
Allegany County. Cumberland; West I 
Virginia. Morgantown; Ohio, Alli
ance; Harding, Marion; Pomerqy; 
Rayen, Youngstown; Scott, Toledo; 
South, Akron; South, Youngstown; 
Steubenville; Waite, Toledo; Wellsville. Pennsylvania, Altoona; Asplnwall; Avalon; Beaver; Beaver Falls; 
Bellevue; Business, Pittsburgh; But
ler; California; Canonsburg; Central, 
Erie; Clairton; Dormont; Ellwood 
City; Ford City; Freedom; Harris
burg Tech, Harrisburg; Jeannette; 
Johnstown; Juniata; Latrobe; Lock 
Haven; McKeesport; Monaca; Monessen; New Brighton; New Castle; 
Peabody, Pittsburgh; Penn, Green
ville; Schenley, Pittsburgh; South 
Hills, Pittsburgh; Swissvale; Union, 
Turtle Creek; Uniontown; West 
Chester; Westinghouse, Pittsburgh; 
Wilkinsburg; Woodlawn.
of students from jn jie rpIie VjSiting athletes are going to judge our school by tho
Allegheny College and Schenley High way we receive them, so be on deck with ye olde glad hand, and show them 
School the atmosphere was probawhat the Carnegie spirit is. We dont buy athletes with money, but wo 
bly slightly dampened to the spircan buy them with a spirit of good fellowship. Close to oue-thousand high 
its. But to the members of the school athletes will take part.
Tartan track teams, Varsity and 
Plebe, the skies were bright, and all 
was right in the world. The varsity 
won from her Methodist rivals by 
the close score of 64$ to 61*; and 
the Freshmen conquered the high 
school representatives by the also 
close score of 56 to 51.
In the college events; the plaid 
was far ahead in the track events, 
but in the field and weight num
bers, the visitors showed marked 
superiority. Their lead in the lat
ter class of events was not great 
.enough, however, to overcome the 
Skibo majority, in the other events.
Due to the weather and the condi
tion of the track the times of most 
of the events were quite slow. There 
was no lack of excitement, however, 
for most of the competition was 
close, with the winner seldom decid
ed until the end. The one-mile, and 
two-mile runs were notable excep
tions; for Howdy Dykeman was 
qomplete master of the situation in 
both cases.
Kramer took both the quarter and 
half mile runs. The 220-yard run 
was one of the most exciting of the 
afternoon; Humbert nosed out Wil
liams of Allegheny at the tape, and 
Bohn finished third.
Parnell starred for Aleglieny in 
the weight events, lie taking first 
place in both the shot put' and dis
cus throw.. Bastian, Mefort and 
Luty of Carnegie took first place in 
the broad jump, javelin throw and 
high jump, respectively. AND NOw TO FORGET
The Freshman .meet wns hardly I The i)aseball situation is pretty well known by this tiino. Noarly evoryless thrilling than the varsity. As j onQ ]ms formed his own opinion on the issue. And now, let us harbor malico 
a matter of fact, some of the marks toward no one. The affair was unfortunate, but the bulk of tho blamo cannot 
made by the youngsters were better be fastened upon any one individual. The action of the Athletic Council has 
than those of the varsity. been drastic enough to remove the poasibillty of a likG^inck^nt ovor litopenX
THE GOLF TEAM
It looks like the golf team jinx has at last got the best of us. The 
Schenley Park course will not'be open until May 12, thus making practice 
before that time impossible. To go on with the golf team would mean the 
calling off of two, or perhaps three of the five scheduled contests. The 
Athletic Council has taken no definite action as yet, but the golf prospects 
for this season, at best, look poor.
INTER-CLASS TENNIS
The inter-class tennis tournament needs the support of every Carnegie 
man who has played tennis to any degree whatever. To make this event 
an annual affair it must be a success this year, and the co-operation of each 
class alone can accomplish that.
The best way to promote this cause is to grab a racket, get a little 
practice before May 9, and enter your class try outs.
THE ALLEGHENY DUAL MEET
Our track team had its hands full last Saturday, wlien it tackled the 
boys from Meadville. The Tartans proved nearly unbeatable in the middle 
and long distance runs; the big problem to face now, being that of securing 
the second and third positions in most of the events.
The rest of the track team, iu the person of Captain Jimmy Robertson, 
was out of town.
OUR FAVORITE MOMENTS OF THE MEET
Watching Howdy Dykeman win the mile and two-mile events.
When Danny Kramer nosed out Rea of Allegheny for first place in the 
half mile.
As Skinny Humbert won the 
stretch.
Watching Luty win the meet for Carnegie by clearing the bar in tho 
high jump at 5 feet 7 inches.
Cheering for Peck of the Plebe team as he beat out Jess of Schenley 
High by a yard in the Plebe-Sclienley mile run.
Watching "Mef hurl the javelin nine-tentlis of a foot past the previous 
school record.
220 in the last ten yards of the home
; - --- ln agln. So ,v)iut is the uso or further agitation?
Shrivel* led the scoring ot the e*n8df the matter 18 olpta. .........................
OL far as we aro 
We believe, lidwever, that it will havo 
.Plebes by winning three first places I onlEnportanreffect^it will doubtlessly strengthen tho position of managers 
in the 100 yard dash, the 220 yard Ljfteams.
run, and the javelin throw. Stultz  ' ' ' 
and Nimick followed in the order High jumpLuty, Tech; Parnell,
named. j Aleglieny; Judd, Allegheny. Height
One of the host Freshman events; 5 feet 7 inches, 
was the mile run. This was hotly
contested between Peck of Carnegie and Hoffman of Schenley for four 
lays. It was only when near the 
finish, that Peck was able to draw 
away from his rival and finish about 
a yard in advance. .'Summary: 
Varsity.
100-yard dashWilliams, Alle
gheny; Bohn, Tech; Christoff Tech. 
Time10.6 seconds.
120 high hurdlesSlocum, Alle
gheny; Sullivan, Tech; Wright, Al
legheny. Time19.
Mile run'Dykeman, Tech; Mack
intosh, Aleglieny; Reyner, Alle
gheny, Time4:51.
440 yardsKramer, . Tech; Dyke, 
Tech; Sample, Aleglieny. Time 
52.8.
220 yards'Humbert, Tech; Wil
liams, Allegheny; Bohn, Tech. Time 
24.0.
120 low hurdlesEllsworth Alle
gheny; Slocum, Allegheny; Sullivan, 
Tech. Time15 seconds.
Half mileKramer, Tech; Rea, 
Allegheny; Mackintosh, Allegheny. 
Time2:10.5.
Two-mile runDykeman, Tech; 
Bright, Tech; Bliss, Allegheny. Time 
10:50.5.
Poile vault  Judd, Allegheny; 
Smith Tech; Tornatore of Alle
gheny, and Goodwin of Tech, tied 
for third. Height10 feet 3 inches.
Shot putParnell, Judd, Kinnunen, alL Allegheny. Distance38 feet 
9 juches.
Discus throwParnell, Aleghony; 
Yoder, Tech; Judd, Allegheny. Dis
tance126.7 feet.
Javelin throwMefort, Tech; Pip'er, Allegheny; Judd Allegheny 
Distance167.9 feet.
Broad jumpBastian, Tech; Bohn, 
Tech; Judd, Allegheny. Distance 
20 feet 6 inches.
LOST
An old-gold ring, with a black 
diamond setting; was lost on the 
Campus or in the Arts School; 
valued as an heirloom. Finder will 
please return same to tho Director's 
Office, in tho College of Fine Arts.
TEAROOM OPENED 
MARGARET
N
MORRISON
The tea room in Margaret Morri
son will be open from 3:30 fo 5 
oclock on Monday, Wednesday and 
Thursday afternoons.
The public as well as the student 
body is cordially invited to visit the 
tea room at those hours.
Hotel Kitchen Occupies Acre.
The kitchen of one of the big ho
tels In New York an acre in extent.
SPRING SPORT SCHEDULE
Friday, May 9 
Freshman Baseball
indiana Normal. Here 
Varsity Tennis
Allegheny College, Here 
Freshman Tennis
Westmont High School, Here 
Freshman Track
Indiana Normal, Here 
Saturday, May 10 
Varsity Track
Geneva College. Here
Track
Eighth Annual Interscholastic 
Track Meet 
Varsity Tennis
West Virginia University, Here 
Freshman Tennis 
Wilkinsburg High School at Wil
kinsburg, Pa.
Monday, May 12 
Freshman Baseball 
University of Pittsburgh, Pend
ing, at Braddock, Pa.
Varsity Golf
University of Pittsburgh, Here 
Monday, May 13 
Freshman Tennis 
Westmont High School at Johns
town, Pa. '
Wednesday, May 14 
Varsity Tennis 
Washington & Jefferson College, 
Here.
Thursday, May 16 
Varsity Tennis
University of Pittsburgh, Here 
Varsity Track
University of Pittsburgh, Here 
Freshman Baseball
Knoxville High School at Knox
ville, Pa.
Frehsman Tennis
University of Pittsburgh, Here 
Freshman Track
University of Pittsburgh, Here 
Saturday. May 17 
Varsity Tennis
Alumni, Here (A M.)
Monday, May 19 
Varsity Golf
Washington & Jefferson College, 
Here.
* Tuesday, May 20th 
Freshman Tennis 
. Crafton High School at Crafton, 
Pa.
Wednesday, May 21
Varsity Tennis
University of Pittsburgh at Pitt 
Friday, May 23 
Freshman Baseball 
Penn State Freshman (Pending) 
at State College, Pa.
Saturday, May 24 
Varsity Track
University of Pittsburgh Inter
collegiate at Schenley Oval. 
Varsity Tennis 
Thiel College at Greenville, Pa. 
Varsity Golf 
Washington & Jefferson at Wash
ington, Pa.
Freshman Baseball 
Bellefonte 
w.t Bellefonte, Pa,
Freshman Track 
University of Pittsburgh Inter
collegiate at Schenley Oval. 
Monday, May 26 
Varsity Golf
Inter-Class Tennis 
Schedule Drawn Up
Class Presidents to Have 
Charge of Try Outs
At a meeting or tho majority of 
class "presidents or tliolr representa
tives, it was decided to start tho 
Inter-Class Tonnls Tournament on 
May 9.'
A match botwoon two claaaoa was 
decided to couslat of two aota of 
singles, and ono sot of doublos. Tho 
winning class teams of oach collogo 
will participate In tho third round, or 
finals Any man In school, not hav
ing won Ills varsity letter In tonnls 
is eligible to talco part In tho tourna
ment.
The department or physical educa
tion, in accordance with the? request 
of those present at tliomooting, baa 
drawn the following schedule for tho 
first round:
College of Fine ArtsSophomores 
vs. Seniors, Freshmen vs, Juniors.
College of EngineeringFreshmen 
(sections G to M) vs Seniors, Juniors 
vs. Sophomores.
College of IndustriesSeniors vs. 
Juniors, Freshmen (sections A to 
F) vs. Sophomores.
All first round matches are tovbe 
completed before sundown Tuesday, 
May 13. It is the duty of the presi
dent of each class to see that every 
man lias a chance to try out for his 
'class team; if you are interested, see 
your class president as soon as pos
sible.
MAKING GOOD 
A STRAIGHT LINE IS THE SHORTEST 
DISTANCE BETWEEN TWO 
POINTS
You are chiefly concerned in making good in the shortest 
possible time.
All business experience proves that the men and women who 
create new business aro the ones who command tho big money. 
That the trained mind, applied to the sale of life insurance is pro
ductive of immediate and large results is a fact which we can 
demonstrate by cold figuresnot one or two isolated cases, but 
from averages drawn from a multitude of experiences.
The Edward A. Woods Company, a permanent corporation, is the 
largest Life Insurance Agency in the world.
Your future career may be vitally affected by an investigation of 
this really wonderful field.
In the near future, a representative of the Woods Company will 
call to discuss this question with you.
The Edward A. Woods Company
\ General Agents
of the United States
The Equitable Life Assurance Society 
FRICK BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PLAII) NETMEN BREAK 
EVEN ON INITIAI. TRIP
PLEBE BASEBALL TEAM 
OPENS WITH VICTORY
The Plebe baseball team traveled 
out to Shadyside Academy on Friday 
afternoon and beat the Academy nine 
by the score' 12-5.
The Plebes wasted no time in start
ing. They gathered in seven runs the 
first inning, two the third and one for 
every inning after except the last. 
It was only a seven inning game but 
was a hummer while it lasted and 
the Freshmen played mighty good 
ball for their firBt game.
Harmon pitched a steady game and 
the infield worked smoothly. The 
heavy hitting of the Plebes caused 
the Shadyside pitcher and fielders no 
j little trouble. Voght took the hitting
.6 X IN,3 i 1 honors with a triple and a homer.Academy (Pending) | The shady>)|,|0 toam laj,e[1 hnrfl
but tho early load of the Freshmen 
somewhat stunned them.
The lineup: i.
Shadyside. , I / 
Olvin, 2b  .
University of Pittsburgh at PittiLym, rf
Freshman Tennis I Blackburn, lb
University of Pittsburgh at Pitt Harper, p 
_ , Kuntz, 3bTuesday, May 27
Wednesday, May 23
Freshman Baseball
Indiana Normal at Indiana, Pa.
Friday, May 30 
Varsity Tennis
Penn State College, Here.
Saturday, May 31 
Varsity Tennis
Colgate University, Here.
Schroeder, If 
Bagg,ss 
Nukel, cf 
Chunsor, c
Carnegie. 
Snyder, 3b 
Webster, c 
Mauer, lb 
Voght, ss 
Stoner, If
While tho Freshmen Tonnls Toam 
wna laying around thinking hard 
thoughts of the rainy afternoon of 
last Saturday, tho Varsity Team was 
enjoying a foast at tho expense of 
West Virginia University Tonnls 
Toam. In an abbreviated tennis 
tournament tlio Varalty netmen de
feated tho Mountaineers by a 4-0 
score.
Beforo tho rain had a chance to 
do Ita worst, tho Carnogio playors 
had succeeded 1 winning all four 
singlo matches, and w.oro getting 
ready to start in on tho doublos. But 
the master of rainy ceromonies In
tervened, and saved aomobodys 
double loams from defeat,
Capt. Smith of the Tartans lod 
tlio assault with a clean-cut victory 
ovor Capt, Jones of tho West Vir
ginia outfit. I-Ils scores were 0*3* 
6-3. Beecher, ploying number two 
for tho Plaid, had w rather easy time 
with Campbell and won In two 
straight lovo sots. Rogers followed 
by dofoatlng Turner of W. V. U. In 
turning this trick, Rogers showod a 
comploto reversal of form from that 
shown by him tho previous day 
against Knoopp of Waah-Joff. Tills 
match furnished tho real tonnls or 
tlio day, and was only won by , tho 
Carnegio player after two hard and 
fast sots. Tho scores wore 6-3, 6-4. 
Bourns, In the final sots, ovorcamo 
C. Driver of the Mountaineers with
out much trouble, 6-0 and 6-2 being 
the scoreg.
Much credit must bo given to 
Coach Arnold Fink for the toam as 
developed, for he had only one var
sity man to start the season with. 
Beecher has shown that he has ex
ceptional tennis ability and, in time, 
should develop into another real 
tennis star. The same ,can be said 
of Rogers and Capt. Smith. The num
ber four man is still undecided, but 
at present Bourns, Bowron and Wolf 
seem to have the upper hand. Bow
ron is playing very well in doubles, 
and more than likely will play as 
Rogers doubles partner throughout 
the season. Wolf shows signs of 
developing into a good player. Bourns 
is showing best in singles at present 
for the honor of playing number four 
man.
Wash-Jeff Wins.
The first match of the season went 
in the lost column for the Tartans. 
In a gruelling straggle the President 
Tennis Team defeated the Plaid 
representatives by a 4-2 score. Too 
much credit cannot. be given the 
Wash-Jeff players for this feat, for 
from all reports, the Carnegie men 
were playing in good form.
Capt. Smith of the Tartans lost In 
three hard sets to Frlederlchs, who 
la, by the way, West Virginia State 
Tennis Champion. Beecher was the 
only Carnegie man to win In his 
singles. Ho defeated Capt. Naser in 
straight sots. Both Rogers and 
Bourns lost.
In the doublos, Beecher and Smith
Bowser, 2b 
Shrlvor, cf 
Plummer, rf 
Harmon, p
Substitutions  Carnegio  Swipeburg for Plummer, Zimmerman for 
Swlneburg, Escher for Stoner, Turner 
for Shrlver.
ShadysideScott for Blackburn, 
Blackburn for Harper. First on balls 
Off Harper and Blackburn, 6; off 
Harmon, 2.
Athletes Will be 
Busy Campus Week
Several Meets Scheduled in 
Track and Tennis
Enough athletics to satisfy tho 
moat ardent sports enthusiasts will 
talco place on tho Carnogio Tech
Campus during Campus Woolc this 
yoar. Even with tho cancellation of 
tho romalndor ot tho varsity base
ball schedule ,tho program l'or tho 
Spring colobratlou will not suffer 
materially.
On tho varsity list of Campus 
Woolc events aro tonnls and track, 
and tho froshmen wll bo soon in 
action In baseball, tonnls and track 
competition.
Thursday will soo no gamos of any
defeated Frlodorlclis and Knoopp, 
jyul In so doing, furnished tho protHost tonnls of tho aftornoon. Tliolr 
team-work was all to bo doslrod. 
Strange as It may sooin, those two 
Carnogio playors novor rotroatod a 
singlo tlmo throughout tho matoli. 
This match brought tho match scoro 
to 3-2, giving tho Plaid a chance to 
tie the touramont. Realizing this 
Bowron and Rogers wont into tho 
final sot determinedly. But, aftor a 
hard battlo, in which they seemed 
likely to win moro than onco, finally 
lost out ln two sots, both having tho 
final Bcoro of 9-7.
The Presidents play in Pittsburgh 
next week, and at that time, it is 
hoped that tho Carnogio Tech net* 
men will reverso the scores.
sort, dueto' tho Qualification aud
Tap Day oxorolsoa. .Friday, howevor, 
will bo full of ovonta, qnd will koop 
tho spootator as busy as a throo-rlng 
clreuB. Tho varsity tonnls aggrega
tion will moot tho Unlvoralty of 
Pittsburgh's toam on the homo
courts, whllo the same school will bo 
met on tho cinder path by tho Slclbo 
track toam. Pitt, by tho way, sooms
to havo a corner on tho Tartan
Campus Woolc achodulu; bosidoB tho 
varsity ovonts, her froahmnn teams 
will moot tho Plobos ln tho sanio two 
sports.
Another attraction on the snmo day 
will bo a freshman baseball gamo 
with tho Knoxvlllo High School 
nine; this will bo playod on tho 
Knoxvlllo diamond, howovor, and is 
tho ono athlotlc ovont to bo pluyoil 
off tho homo grounds,
On Saturday, tho Alumni tonnls 
toam will lock horns with tho varsity 
roprosontatlvos In tliolr annual strug
gle for Ico cream cones. All-Time 
Manager Eddlo Hirsch says his Loam 
will buat tho youngsters this yoar, 
It' ho has to got In and do it himself.* 
Tho varsity manager predicts that 
lils mon will oat at tho expense of 
the old-tlmors, as usual. Certain it 
Is that a splrltod fray will take 
place, with odds about ovon, accord
ing to advance dopo.
It la oxtremely rogrettnblo that tho 
varsity basoball schodulo lias boon 
cjincollod for tho romalndor of tho 
Boaaon, and that no intor-colleglato 
competition will likely talco place on 
tho Carnegie Campus for another 
yoar. However, tho typo and num
ber of othor events taking place will 
servo to lessen somewhat the disap
pointment over tho baseball situa
tion.
You wont fumble this cap!
Professional jugglers could handle the oldstyle shaving cream caps and never once drop 
one down the drain or under the bath tub.
But for most of us, this new Williams HingeCap puts an end to an ancient nuisance.
Williams Shaving Cream is just as much 
pleasanter to use as is the Hinge-rCap. It 
softens the beard with uncanny speed. The 
thicker lather holds the moisture in against 
the skin where it is needed. This lather lu
bricates the skin, too, so that painful razor 
friction is eliminated. Ancl when yoyr shave 
is done, that famous ingredient in Williams 
which helps the slcin, leaves your face cool, 
soothed and refreshed. No coloring matter 
is used in Williams  it is a pure, naturalwhite shaving cream.Wi Ilia msShaving Cream
The J. B. Williams Company, Glastonbury, Conn.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTHURSDAY. MAY 8, 1924
(fnrnffliE ^Tartan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegio InHtltute or 
Technology under the supervision ot the Student Council.
Entered In tho PontoIIlco or PlttBburgh an second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-C111 JOE
H. F. SIMPSON .................................................................................Schenley 9143
BUSINESS MANAGUit J. C. MAJOR.........................................................................................Hlland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD.......................................Schenley 9189Managing Will tor
FRED C. SMITH...........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED 'J'. PHELPS......................................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
SARA MAE EVERETT.........................................................................Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES 
H. H. WILSON
NEWS EDITORS
C7 AVRRVRE ...................................................................................... Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schenley 9070
A. E. -KEOGH.............................................................Schenley 9070Alumni Editor
B. C. FRAZIER......................................................Schenley 9148Athletic Editor
R. W. SLEATII .................................................................................... Photographer
W. IC. JEFFREY.................................................................................Exchange Editor
H. P. COUSE,  ............................................................................................Art Editor
DON GARDNER ............................................................................... Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W. M. GIBSON.............................................Schenley 9211Advertising ManagerB. BROUDY..................................................................Assistant GS51S,55 Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
EBtelle Garibaldi Airnec Pharo J. M. T,55
Wilma Stiner N. o. Weser McClelland
Carol Folght v n  |th M. W. Gay
M,Cnrt McFall AI-undqulatMaigaret McFall L. II. Harris U7 L. Lopper
Rononmry McOambrldg E 0 j0,lnH0n j, N. Conloy.
Nora WillettB K. Fulmer M. Ilollinshoad
J. A. C. Foller______________________A. F. CarBon_____________Harriet Merwln
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao G. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. I-IarrlB E. C. Plummer
* BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandrock, A. Crodner, L. Barbrow, A. 
Perreton, Leo C. OBborn, E. L. Reeves, J. M. Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. 
Bauerle, J. P. Strlzak, Lois Snyder.
The Edltor-in-Cliier is responsible tor tho policy ot this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications or student interest, ir signed. 
Signature will bo withhold ir desired. All news items must be in the student 
post oillce betore 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfllceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.
ABOUT BASEBALL
II; lias been done, and the less said the better. Elsewhere in the 
columns of this paper are printed statements by the principal ones 
involved. Like-wise the simple statement oi! the drastic action taken 
by the Athletic Council is also printed.
Theso statements arc sufficient. There is no need of rubbing it 
inenough is enough. No ono realizes the error of their actions more 
than those -who committed them. The lesson, is not hard to find, so 
why should this paper waste space by moralizing?
The only thing to do is: BE A MAN, AND TAKE YOUR MED
ICINE LIKE ONE. Proper restitution bas been-made by the Athletic 
Council, through letters' of apology being sent to the colleges of 
whom advantages were taken. The connections of the coach has 
been severed, from the team. The team has boon disbanded, and no 
letters are to be award. Whether this action was too drastic or not 
this column will not say. Maybe il; was; maybe not.
And now, the only thing to do is forge!;. No actions or conversa
tions by anyone should be oi! such a nature as to bring the matter up. 
Tho hurt has gone deep, and it will only go deeper through further 
discussions. So, leis call tho present state: far enough.
Lets forget by diving into the remaining sports; supporting 
them for ill we are worth, and. show to the world that the CARNEGIE 
TM(- II SPIRIT is still here, and that were still proud of Carnegie, 
our collogo.We are too. And why shouldnt we be? Havent we made a 
grout stand at groat sacrifice for clean sports? CAiiNEGIE SPORTS 
.ARE (JIYJfl ANif this unfortunate ail'air does nothing else, it proves 
beyond a doubt that.
Lot us continue to cheer for tho glory of Carnegie 1 for, in defeat 
or victory, Carnogio Loyalty is always presont.
CAMPUS WEEK
As far as Campus Week is concerned, there remains nothing 
else to say but: its all horo for you, and if you dont fake advant
age of if, 'tainMi no fault of ours.
Tho student committoo has performed its duty and planned a 
series of good times that would do credit to a professional carnival 
o.l! tho highest type. To merely say that they have performed their 
liil, would be putting il. mildly. They are duo erod'd; galore, and now 
that they have done it, twould be a shamo indeed if advantago wore 
not taken of if by every singlo student, and alumnus within a travel
ing radius of Pittsburgh.
To repeat, this celebration is planned first and foremost in 
order to get you alumni to return to the campus. It is your celebra
tion, given in your honor,'and planned as a special incentive for you 
to return,Every school in the country has just such a time set aside for an 
ANNUAL HOME-COMING, and if the truth bo known, it would be 
hard indeed to convineo any Carnegie Tech student that any of them 
are bigger and better than our CAMPUS WEEK.
Last year almost live hundred alumni returned for the celebra
tion. A pretty good record considering that last year was the 4th 
ANNUAL, and that Carnegie Tech is only a matter of thirteen or 
fourteen years of age, and therefore her alumni body is perhaps small 
as compared with other colleges in the country.
This year, we of the student body, will be greatly disappointed 
if this number is not trebledfifteen hundred alumni returning for 
Campus Weekis our goal.
What say, Mr., Mrs. and Miss graduate and former student?
And bring all of the juniors too. Youd be surprised if you only 
knew how interested we are to know that you have some future Car
negie Techites growing steadily to that age where they can pass 
entrance exams and themselves follow in the footsteps of their mom 
and pop,
Y8S, come one, come all, and were sure you will find that Car
negie Techs 5tli ANNUAL CAMPUS WEEK will havo enough fun 
for all.Remembernext week-end, May 15, 16 and 17!
Campus Week in a Box
THURSDAY, MAY 15 
10:00 n.m.Vaudeville Show. 
1:30 p.m.Qualification and 
Call.
2:00 p.m.Kaper of the Kilties. 
2:30 p.m.Tree Plantlno by 
Mortor Board.
0:30 p.m.Coronation of Cam
pus Week Queen. 
8:15 p.m.Show.
FRIDAY, MAY 16 
10:00 a.m.Tennis Match, Girls. 
County Fair.
1:00 p.m.Tennis Match, PittTech.
Track Meet, PittTech.
7:00-9:00Swim, Alumnae
Girls, New Gym.
9.00 p.m.Mardi Gras.
SATURDAY, MAY 17 
9:00a.m.Girls' Sweepstakes.
10:00a.m.I n t erfraternity 
Sweepstakes.
Guard Mount.
12:00 m. Alumni Luncheon. 
1:00 p.m.Giriti Volley Dali 
Game.
Girls' Baseball 
Game.
2:00 p.m.-- Alumni 
Match.
1:00-6:00Swim. Alumni 
New Gym.
6:00 p.m.Girls' Banquet. 
8:15 p.m.Show.
8:45 p.m.Dance.
Tenni s 
Men,
Arts PlaysCAMPUS PERSONALITIESi
GEORGE HERBERT FOLLOWS
By Edna Ferber, Doubleday, Page & 
Co., New York).
I The audience on the first night of 
Fashions was so interesting, as well 
I as interested, that one is tempted to 
i review them instead ot the play. J 
Here was an old play, a quaint thing' 
| that was new when hoop ykirts werej 
j just beginning. Its humor and it3 
I sentiment alike smelled or lavendar. 
j Producers are always telling us lovI ers or old literature that modern au| diences will not enjoy such a play. 
Along comes Misa Anna Dice, takes 
j Fashions out of lavendar, puts it on 
i the Arts stage with enthusiasm, capj ability, and rare understanding of 
j the periodand behold, everyone in 
: tho audience enjoys it. I never saw 
a play appeal, to so many people in 
I so many ways. Some few really got 
the flavor of it, and enjoyed with 
discernment this little visit to the 
drama of our grandparents, always 
letting a keen sence of our own 
artirtic foibles prevent loo patron
izing an attitude towards the 
dated" sentiment and satire. Some 
few took the play straight, in all 
seriousness, and were carried along 
by its emotions just as their great 
,, | grandmothers might have been. Be-negle," und it has a wing that twc(,n ratremes oC ., cu,tureil
ought to put It Into Immediate favor. :llle Bense and no m 8enBe
IolcHlo gives assurance that | at all, the majority of the audiencequartet which wUl bring the Bong d ,tBeI( jn jtg Qwn wUh
to first public notice has been select-, ^ t , , ,
ed on tlie ba8lB.,of good vdcea and , d spontaneous lutle
not or ability to wear wing collarb.
Ann Luria and Warren Kimballgot" a particular bit of humor thatwill go through the esthetic gyraappea]e(j him especially, 
tions and vibrations of the Argentine; FF7 jB jjar(j j-0 distribute praise in 
For sometime past the critics of j Tango. Their elaborate version isJS0 unified a performance. Miss Dice 
America have been exchanging occa(skillfully executed and gives to the, ancj ^jle whole cast deserve. especial
garceful South American dance the I thanks for resisting the temptation to 
charm of sympathetic interpretation.. j10iulrn They might have made it 
Some new songs will be presented i mereiy farce: instead they gave us 
by Obie Newman, with the support; high comedy, a much rarer and more 
of Grace Broderick , and Rod Van valuable achievement. Mary Power 
Atta. The songs will be delivered in kept her Mrs Tiffany at such 
Blonal sly noncommitant winks over 
Edna Ferbers short stories. Wise, 
Bilent nods followed, and then some 
venturesome member of the critical 
fraternity dared a great dare, and 
breathed a cautious. Watch Edna 
Ferber! And the chorus took It up, 
"Watch, Watch." Now, with the pub
lishing of this novel of hors the tune
the typical Newman style. They; even level or genuinely humoroushave been selected for their appeal j characterization that she won from
........ ..  ------  .....- to people in a Campus Week state j jier aU(]jence one broad and continuhas changed a little and they all say | of mind, arid are sure to include -ous gmile rather than occasional
.'j laughs. Dot Schell as the stoccato 
for their French maid and Elnor Johnson as
! the little coquette completed her picArthur, director of the orture with: an effect of naturalness
chestra at the Arts Ball Show, wll!' which really meant careful work,
lead an augmented organization, andj]3(]na Shugart as Prudence, was re
will provide the atmosphere, which sponsible for many of the evenings
a bill of such high calibre deserves., iaUghs. Gertrude (Beth Lindsey), was
Polesle, the main-spring of the typical heroine of the period,whole works, is doing all he can toU,I^ .......------------------**
So Big. What a queer sort of 
title. What can it mean? The paper 
cover on the book explains it all very 
nicely.
I-Iow big is my baby? Selina 
would demand, senselessly, How big 
is my man?"
Then little Dirk De Jontf, standing 
before his mother, would stretch his 
arms wide and squeal, "So-oobig!" 
in dutiful solo.
When ho grew to be ono or the 
most correct young men of Chicagos 
rashionable North Shore, he returned
some pronounced hits. The accom
panists are well known 
musical talent.
Bob
King George, as Pror. Follows is 
called by most of the fellows, has 
taught, perhaps, more different sub
jects since his coming to Carnegie 
than any other man in the school. 
Economic Production covers the 
range of courses which he has taught 
at various times. Prof. Follows ex
plains this variety of teaching by 
stating that the department is con
stantly searching for new fields of 
instruction and constantly improving 
the courses.
Prof. Follows was the second man 
to be appointed to the staff of Car
negie Tech, and is now Professor of 
Economic Production. At the time 
when the school was being organized, j 
Prof. Follows read a paper on the j 
business end of engineering before 
the Engineering Society of Western ! 
Pennsylvania. As a result of this, j 
Carnegie Tech heard ot Mr. Follows ! 
and Mr. Follows heard or Carnegie, j 
he was appointed to the staff, and j 
has now been here nineteen years. (
Prof. Follows received his educa-1 
tion in England. He is a Whitworth j 
Scholar, a title given in England for i 
passing government examinations in j 
engineering work. Follows came to! 
the United States in 1892, with the ; 
idea then of staying but a few years. | 
Before coming to Carnegie he held j 
various positions in the engineering! 
field, mostly along the line of Com\ 
mercial Engineering.
Commercial Engineering has been | 
Prof. Follows work during the most 
part of his life, though actually Com
mercial Engineering did not comc
into being until about 1919. It was 
suggested as a type of engineering 
by Prof. Follows, formulated by him 
and the first course in the work es
tablished by him here at Carnegie. 
In 1919 Prof. Follows was chosen by 
the Bureau of Education at Washing
ton, D. C. as one of sixteen whowere to consider Commercial Engi
neering as an engineering possibility. 
Through his previous experience in 
this work, Prof. Follows was able to 
"sell the idea of Commercial Engi
neering to the other fifteen men.
Commercial Engineering was then 
instituted, and the first course start
ed here. Prof. Follows was the first 
head of the Department of Com
mercial Engineering.
Outdoor life is a great hobby of 
Prof. Follows. He has a camp of his 
own in Canada, where he spends 
his summers, fishing, playing golf, 
boating and other' outdoor sports. 
He has a golf course, a sailboat, 
motor boat, and plenty of fishing 
equipment. King Georges students 
have often heard his interesting 
stories of fishing experiences, both 
in and out of class. He considers 
these stories an admirable way of 
illustrating various points.
Prof. Follows is an old golfer and 
has made the eighteen holes in the 
Schenley course in 73. He is also a 
great lover of music and has played 
the violin for years.
It is interesting to note that Prof. 
Follows was the first man to ,be 
chosen from the faculty as honorary 
member to a fraternity. He was a 
member of Sigma Tau, the fraternity 
which is now a chapter of Delta 
Upsilon.
make the show an unparalleled sue 
cess. He wants it to be an outstand
ing event of tho week. Any one who 
has a new Idea which would help
to his apartment ono night, from vls-!put ,t!10 hc"' ovur ",|u llml Bn "Se1'confident in Herb. Tho show, as 
planned, Is shorter than those of
other years, but has a lot more snap.
SECRET EVENT OF FRIDAY IS 
DISCLOSED AS COUNTY FAIR
(Continued from Page One) 
department, and expert treatment will 
bo givon. There will be a rifle range, 
tor thoso. who wish to compote with 
mombors of the R. O. T. C. toam for 
tho Castle Cup. There will bo vari
ous exhibitions of skill in othor lines 
by members of certain fraternities, 
and oven certain girls dormitories 
will supply persons to entertain the 
fnlr-goors.
Tho chief item of importance will 
bo the Country Wedding. Tho com
mittee has asked for volunteors for 
this, and the thing will be carried out; 
in regular stylo, tho llconso having 
boon applied for before-hand. II; is 
no joko, either, for the committoe 
has offered a prize of a Grand Plano 
l.o the couple who will consent lo 
marry on that, day. Tills Is limited 
to the Campus, of course, and any 
couple who havo been secretly mar
ried nood not apply. Without a doubt,
lting his mother and questioned him
self, Ilow Big?"
His answer is this story.
Now such an introduction is bound 
to raise certain expectations, and It 
takes a chapter or so to convince one 
that tlioso expectations are not to be 
fulfilled Immediately. The only re
sentment ono feels at this, however, 
is duo to tho time one has wastod 
In hunting for Dirk while ono should 
havo boon getting acquainted with 
Selina, Ills mother. This Sollna Is 
remarkably woll drawn. Her char
acter and tho circumstancos of her 
life aro convincingly real, as Is Indood tho wholo book. Ono critic has 
said, "One frequently mistakes her 
canvas for a window,"
Tho novel doalH with tlio sort of 
thing few of us linvo experloncod.
Its setting Is Chicagonowhoro olse.
And yet the story Is realreal to 
young peoplo, real in Pittsburgh.
It makes one wonder, How big am j?..
VARIETY SHOW BILL
HAS STELLAR ACTS
(Continued From Pago One.) 
sorlous part of the bill with Polesles 
version of "The Two Orphans, (all 
rights reserved) being played by tho 
football men. Tliolr admitted dra
matic ability and natural grace of 
movement particularly well fit them 
for the heavy and difficult parts 
which they must take. Doc Taylor 
will play the blind girl, Louise; and 
Ohio Newman, the older sister, Hen
rietta. Cy Comfort is raising a 
board, whichought to help make his 
Interpretation uncannily realistic and 
Jimmy Anderson has stopped eating 
breakfast, in order to reduce his size 
to fit his costume, which he says he 
believes was made for a smaller 
man. Bull Yoder as the anaemic 
cripple is one character who is ex
pected to create a sensation in his 
part.
The diligence with which the* cast 
has been practicing augurs well for 
an auspicious opening Thursday 
morning. All the members are letter 
perfect in their lines, as various ac
quaintances can testify. The mag
nificence of the scenery and the 
elegance of the costumes, in con
junction with the superb acting, will 
make this production the most finish
ed and elaborate revival of the 
ancient classic, of the stage.
Yerner Haldene and llardie Al
bright will be the stars of act three.
They have resisted all efforts of 
ZIegfiold to have them do their stuff 
at the Now' Amsterdam, and Campus 
Week will absolutely see the first 
presentation of their comedy skit,
The cooperative pair guarantee ono 
hundred laughs for oven the most 
dyspeptic during tho twenty minutes 
that they will be allowed freedom ap 
preaching lleenso. Those who think.,,,,,
Eddie Cantor Is a nut should see Al-1 points for tho attuchiijent of the spawn 
bright and Haldene in action. I aro called "eultch. Tin cans, bits of
A good quartet, will Introduce a crockery, brush, etc., were formerly 
new Carnegio song, which Polesle much used for this purpose, but now 
and llaldeno collaborated in writing. I eultch consists almost entirely of 
Tho title Is We're With You, Curht'd <>*>u>ot.n'*m<M* il'**Us.
| just as the author probably conceived 
her. The solo dance by Ruth Mering 
and Donald Marve, was ;i. charming 
apotheosis of the spirit of the 1845 
polka.
The men ot the cast were not less 
satisfying. Harry Mervis, on whom 
the motion of the whole latter part 
of the play depended, gave us an old; 
farmer that was just right, neither 
overacted nor under acted. Herbert 
Polesis French Count was good, but 
a little less natural and individual
ized, a little nearer to staginess. 
Austin Coughlin made the 'most of 
the slight but dramatic scones of 
Mr. Tiffany, and Matthew Smith sup
plied the difficult but necessary note 
of sincerity in th< soinewhat 
moagro lines of Colonel Howard.
Jilmes Resley interpreted tho vil
lain with originality and humor be
yond the authors lines. The fun in 
his drunken scene would have done 
credit to a Trlnculo. And, to put 
tho first last, Mnurjj Tuckermans 
Prolog gn.vo the audience a not inconsidorablo help toward catching 
the sprit of the play. They were so 
well in the mood, that the period 
furniture was given a hand on the 
first curtain rise.
Is it too much to hope that the 
success of tills play may serve na en
couragement to more revivals of 
plays which require a historical 
sense for their interpretation? Tothis Is the first tlmo a real, honest-to,
John wedding has been authorized by l) hie to outer Into tho life and 
tlio scliOol authorities, and if is in j thought of times other than our own, 
keeping with the saying made some ' to appreciate the changes in manners 
time ago by ex-Prosidont Hammer-! and taste and to distinguish these 
schlag that "marriage does not im-; elements from the permanent values, 
pair tho work of a student. Wo ask, I and* finally to be able to see ones, 
therefore, that couples consider this o\vn time also in perspective, in pro-{ 
thing seriously. portion, as it will look centuries
The II. J. Heinz Company has conhence; this is wisdom. Perhaps this 
sent.ed to furnish a booth with I is tho best gift of education. Blit 
pickles,tomato soup, beans, chili-sauce : how lew even among college men 
and such, delicacies as they custo-iand women even begin to attain it! 
marily supply on occasions of food j Courses in history of literature are 
shows, etc. This booth will run the j perfunctorily attended, and we who 
Reick-McJunltin booth a close race j teach them struggle vainly against 
for the popularity. The pickles which j the apathy of modern youth towards 
have made Heinzs 57 famous will be ! aii that is old. But the theater can 
seen on the lapel of every child. The make old things live, even for modpins will be extra sharp, in order that j een youth. Here at Tecnnologv, 
contact with the Reick-McJunkin balWith a School of Drama under a proloons will be sure, and effective. fessor who states openly that bo
There has been r.o memtion of adwould rather see any play than hea>- 
mission,, and we bag to announce j anylecture, may we not hope that 
that there will be none. Everyone is the theater will take over a great 
asked to come and enjoy the climate, j task of education at which the classatmosphere, and spirit of the old room everywhere has signally failed? 
down-around-liome fair. During the ; ALLENE GREGORY
morning the music will be furnished | ______________
by the Podunk County Brass Band, j 
New uniforms have been purchased j 
for the occasion, and the band lias j 
already started rehearsals on their 
big number, "Poet and Peasant Over
ture."
RICHARD III.
Mr. Iden Paynes annual Shakesi pearian production is the great event. 
; of the year in the School of Drama.
1 And for the audience too it may well During the interim between appeartjie grent event of the year. It is 
ances of The Tartan, any information unfortunate that the audiences canconcerning the Fair may be had by i not lmye the benefit of hearing Mr.
applying to The Tartan Office, or by pnyne'a remarkable rehearsals. To 
direct communication to the Campus I - 1 1 J  
Week Committee.do so is to have a luminous introduci tion to Shakespearian interpretive
! scholarship. Failing that, 1 submit 
Oyster Propaoation. * that the audiences should be offered
Oyster shells and other objects an opportunity to seo the play at least
planted on oyster grounds to provide' , twice. A production so rich in con
tent cannot bo grasped in one perSothern and Mansfield performances 
I have seen. Tlie cunning, rage, bit
terness, and hypocricy of Richard 
were well p<)rtrayed, together with a 
certain dry humor which made of him 
an individual. Harry Mervis as'Buckingham gave the part his usual ) 
abounding vitality and carried through 
his interpretation with a dash. His 
Buckingham was less a scheming 
statesman than a gay young soldier 
of fortune, ready to side with any 
party for his own advancement in a 
brawling world. Which, perhaps, is 
the simple historical truth. All sides 
weie too deeply tarred with the same 
brush for moral issues to be very 
clear. Shakespeare himself writes 
with more zest of his vigorous scoun
drels than in the Richmond scene 
where he pulls a long face and 
preaches a Sunday School sermon. 
Margaret, scolding like an inspired 
fishwife, is more in his vein. And, by 
the way, what a Margaret Ida Kraus 
did give us! She had the true Eliz
abethan prodigality of emotion and 
splendid articulateness. We all share 
Queen Elizabeths impulse to ask. her 
to teach us the fine art of such curs
ing. The Duchess of York was an
other wonderful old woman. Mary 
Brown has rather specialized in old 
womens parts. This time she outdid 
herself. And, may one observe, this 
is the first time this year any of 
the old women on the arts stage has 
succeeded in getting on a convincing
ly old make up. Take note: It can
be done! Ellen Lowe was of course 
lovely and moving as the queen, and 
Dorothy Schell gave a good piece of 
characterization in Anne. The little 
princes were admirably differenti
atedtln> - stately crown prince and 
the lceeri little York. Of tlio men, 
among so many, who deserve com
ment., Mr. Spindler's Mayor has per
haps first claim, because he built with 
so /iiice a humor upon so few lines. 
Of the others, one is impressed by 
the flexibility they showed In doing 
wrelli parts quite different from the 
typ'es with which we were in tho hab
it of seeing them. One wonders, why 
should the casting for type which is, 
admittedly an unfortunate habit on' 
the professional stage be allowed tot 
pervail in a School of Drama?
One might go on indefinitely prais-; 
ing the performance. Everyone con-! 
neeted deserves the utmost credit. If| 
there could be any reservation in 
ones approval i.t is that, as an educa
tor. one wonders whether the amount 
the students gained from the elabor
ateness of costumes and scenery was| 
any compensation for the undue 
strain of the excessive crew work,, 
coming as it did, moreover, just at a 
time when everyone might, * with j 
profit, have been-visiting Mr. Paynes! 
invaluable rehearsals. But, that again,1 
is another story, and brings us into j 
the usual discussion of whether the; 
students exist for the Arts Theater, 
and its audiences, or whether the 
Arts Theater exists for the students. 
Certainly both audiences and stu
dents have cause to ' be lastingly 
grateful to Mr. Payne.
TAP DAY TO LIBERATE
PLEBES FROM BONDAGE
(Continued From Page One.) * 
buried with all his signs and symbals. 
Plebe hats, black ties and socks are 
all buried forever and ever more, 
amen.
The proceedings are quite formal 
and follow a carefully planned order 
and every student is requested to keep 
in mind the program so that there 
will be no delay or confusionthis is 
directed mainly at the Plebe since it 
is for them that tfie day has been 
established. The proceedings are pre
sented herewith:
All the Plebes will assemble at the 
flag pole in front of the College of 
Fine Arts on Thursday, May 15, at 
1:15 sharp. The kiltie band will meet 
at the same place and time.
Led by the band, the Plebes will 
march to the far side of tho Field 
House and will enter the bowl 
through that entrance. Once on the 
cinder track the parade will reform 
and in the following order will march 
around the track: Band, pall bearers 
with coffin, mourners (co-eds in 
white preceding men).
Filing past the coffin In front of 
the grand stands, the mourners will 
deposit the last evidence of their most 
recent bondage and take their place 
in the stands to receive the address 
of welcome. The x-eply of the new 
members of the clan is made, followed 
by the burial of the coffin. The kaper 
of the kilties will take place while 
the newest linkthe link of the class 
of 1927 is being wedded to the ever 
lengthening chain. This is the final 
act in the welcoming of the new mem
bers of the Carnegie Clan.
The cali is the next event on the 
program and it is then that the va
rious honorary societies elect those 
who have been active in the affairs 
of the school during the preceding 
year.
CLASS OFFICERS FOR
NEXT YEAR ARE CHOSEN
(Continued From Patre One.) 
ers; vice president, E. C. Plummer; 
treasurer, R. Bridges; secretary, C. H. 
Peck; Thistle, C. Davidson; senate, 
J. Bowser, F. Swale.
Arts.
S'ophomoiesPresident, Revote, W. 
Lynch, R. Frazer; vice* president, 
Grace Glennon, secretary; Dot Boyle; 
treasurer. McKinney; Senate, Girl, 
Revote, E. McTaggert and A. Bittaker; Thistle. John Carr.
Re vote Wed. 1:15, Room 105.
bohST UNoTAhoAN CHUhCH o
Praying by Proxy.
' From October to February, there is 
a long line ' dirty travelers making 
their way to the top of the sacred 
mountain of eastern Tibet. Each one 
prays as he travels; the prayer con
sisting of whirling a small cylinder of 
metal mojumed upon a stick. At in
tervals there are larger cylinders 
which they whirl as they pass. The 
mountain Is 12,000 feet high and the 
climb is hard, but the descent is said 
to be just as difficult.
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 oclock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest to students.
NOTICE
NON* DEGREE MEN ELECT
NEXT YEARS OFFICERS
At a meeting of the Non-Degree 
men held last Wednesday, Wm. B. 
Gooby was elected as the Non-Degree 
representative to the Industries Sen
ate. The president and treasurer for
I next year will bo elected at a meeting 
I tomorrow afternoon to be held in the 
j Industries Club Room at -1:45. Please 
! put nominations on tho list posted on 
! the bulletin board at the postoffice. 
I The vice president and secretary for 
1 next yea* will be chosen from tho 
; incoming class.
j form a n cc
i However, there was much that the 
' audience could not miss. Tho elabo
rate and beautiful staging and gor1 geous costumes made tho play a joy
to tho boholdor. And tho strong,1 omo| tional acting, tom pored and directed 
, ,,  | as it was by a thorough grasp of theThat In view of the fact that the student management of Varsity Base. wholo
ball knowlnqly played an ineligible man under an assumed name in the first ' (.nrI-,ii> in -nifo r in'three oarnes of the season, the Athletic Council of Carnenie Institute of Techj Hnal cm lain in spite of the minoiogy, at a mcctino held May first, tool; the following actions: (11 That! usual length ol tile performance,
letters of npology be sent to the colleges with whom Carnegie playrfd the It is impossible to praise all the good 
games involved, (2) that the coachs connection with the baseball team be work of the cast. To do so would
severed, (3) that the baseball team be disbanded at once, nod the remaining , amount to a roll call, for even the
names be cancelled, (4) that the record of the games played be erased, (5) , were well done, some o them 
that no letters he granted to any members of the varsity squad ths season, remarkaWy s0 But.'to ho brief Jocopies of this resolution be, sent to the President and Deans of the , , , . . .T>) that copies <
Insf'tute, with the recommendation that drastic disciplinary action be taken 
in the case of the ineligible player. ^
: sepli Lazarus gave us a Richard which 
I for one felt was quite equal to the
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring 
ones. Begin now to acquire 
those of saving and accumu
lating money.
An account with the Mellon 
National Bank will give you 
a splendid start. Persistent 
savings will develop financial 
independence. The experi
ence, to say nothing of the 
money itself, will in later life 
prove Invaluable to you.
Come In and talk it over.
Mellon National Bank
PittsbuJf^h, Pa.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5. P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech . students always welcome.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
6:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, MAY 8. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
Alumni Office Seeks 
Opportunity to Aid
EmploymentOffi.ee Can't Help 
Without Co-operation
ALUMNI OFFICE GIVES
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Have you ever been out. of a job,
The Alumni Employment Office lias j 
a number of positions open for gradu-1 
ates of Carnegie. Many corporations j 
of the Tri-State district avail them-i 
selves of the opportunity to procure, I 
through the Employment Office, | 
highly trained men for their staffs. | 
The office always has a list of de-1 
sirable situations awaiting the first
IAKE RESERVATIONS FOR C. W.DONT BE LEFT BEHIND
with nothing in view, and the emi alumnus who wishes to step into; 
ployment situation hitting the down | them. Alumni who would like to take [ 
grade? Or, have you ever held a advantage^of the service in the future j 
position which did not satisfy you,' should fill out the directory questionj 
hut which, owing to the nature of the naire. wTliich the Employment Office j 
work, gave you little time or opj will be glad to send them, 
portunity to look about for a posiThe list below is a typical one, unj 
tion to which you felt better suited? | der date of April 5:
If you have ever been in either pre
dicament, we wont need to plead 
with you to forward promptly your 
alumni questionaire.
EMPLOYMENT COLUMN
1. Several architectural openings.
2. Several electrical sales jobs rej quiring electrical graduates with good
The Alumni Placement Bureau is i personality, 
being constantly called on tc fill ( 3. Plant manager for an electric
positions of a highly specialized na-; storage battery company, 
ture with very satisfactory salaries i 4. 'Several high-class electrical and 
attached, but many of these positions ! mechanical engineering jobs requirhave gone begging, becauseso few j ing an engineer with ability to write 
of our alumni have been willing to technical advisory reports on diversikeep their experience and personal; fied problems.
history record up to date. Of these | 5. One civil and one mechanical to
few, most of them have already j draw up lists of material and equipTho Senior Commercials, numbeij 
ing nineteen along with Prof. Pol-1 
lows, Mrs. Follows and Mrs. Bing
ham, took a very interesting and on-; 
joyable inspection trip last Tuesday j 
to East Liverpool, O. A special car, | 
obtained through tho courtesy of Col. j 
Church, was tho means ol transpor-1 
tation. They urrlvod about 9:35 a. 
m., and during the morning visited 
the Edwin M. Knowles China Com
pany plant and sample room at New? 
oil, \V. Va.. just across the river 
from East Liverpool.
Following this visit in the morn
ing, the entire party were the guests 
of the Rotary Club at the weekly 
noon-day luncheon of the club at (lie 
Y. M. C. A. After the meal, a short 
program of songs and brief addresses 
was carried out. Tho Rotarians gave
Girls Sweepstakes 
To be Held Sat. A. M.
STEAL SHIP AND ELOPE 
WITH CAPT.S DAUGHTER
profited with better positions.; ment from detailed plans. Location.
You have the same opportunity. I New Jersey near New York City.
Each graduate should write at least | 
one letter a year to the Alumni Of-;
G. One hydraulic engineer.
7. One graduate of mechanical enfice, so that his record may be | gineering or machine production for 
brought up to date. All we ask Is j sales of water works and power plant 
your earnest co-operation in giving j equipment.
the Placement Bureau and Alumni ! 8. Commercial engineer or maOffice a fair chance to serve you. ; chine production graduate for sales
Fast Sleeping After Carnival 
Imperative For Alumnae
Think it over. Then mail the Per
sonal History Questionaire, which 
you should have received by this 
time. Do it now or youll forget.
NEW OFFICES FOR THE 
RIFLE CLUB ELECTED
promotion.
9. Electrical furnace opening.
10. Several sales positions for ex
perienced civil engineers with rail
road experience.
11. One mechanical engineer with 
experience in power plant operation
3 2. Several drafting positions on 
various types of work.
13. Positions for printing graduates.
14. One civil engineer.At the annual meeting of the Rifle 
Club, last Wednesday, the following j
men were elected to office for tl.e VARSITY AND PLEBES
ensuing year: President, E. C. Ta-!
turn; vice-president, L. C. Hughes; 
treasurer, R. L. Coulter; secretary,!
C. H. Knappenberger; executive of
ficer, D. McL. Stewart. The members 
of the team i elected Donald McL.
Stewart as the captain of the team 
ior next year.
The manager, E. C. Tatum, report
ed the following men in the order in 
which they merited their insignia for 
their work on the rifle team this past 
year: Stewart, Hamil, Darnall, Pos
ter and Hughes.
Mr. Hamill, chairman of the com
mittee on recognition, reported that 
his work was brought to a very 
satisfactory conclusion when the Ath
letic Council recognized rifle shoot
ing as a sport at Carnegie Tech, and 
decided to award insignia to the 
members of the team. The stipula
tion of the council is that the team 
shall be open to any member of the 
school, like all the other teams are, 
and not to club members only.
The president appointed a commit
tee to see what could be done about 
obtaining better range facilities for 
next year. This committee is com
posed of Good (chairman), Jarema 
and Hughes.
There was a discussion to the ef
fect that the next fall tournament of 
the club would be a handicap affair, 
open to club members only, the tour
nament to be in charge of a commit
tee on handicaps.
Moreover, other members express
ed tliemsdlves in favor of shoulderto-shoulder meets with the teams of 
other large colleges in the tri-State 
district. In fact it was recommended 
that next years manager should en
deavor to hold a tournament in Pittsburgh, at which i'ltt, W. Va., W. &
J. and Penn. State would meet with 
C. I. T.
The club decided to adopt for their 
official pin a very neat and symbolic 
design Which was the work of Prof.
George H. Fellows. The size of pin 
to be ordered will be decided upon 
after bids have been received from 
the manufacturers.
In addition to all this business, the 
club heard an interesting talk on 
The Development of Arms, de
livered by Capt* Lyons, one of the 
new members and hearty supporters 
of the club. The captain, moreover, 
has consented to act as coach for the 
Rifle Team. In this the team is very 
fortunate, as he lias a good record for 
turning out successful teams.
The committee must have felt any
thing but tired or sleepy when it 
scheduled the sweepstakes for 9 a. 
m., Saturday morning, May 16. Ex
actly six hours after the Mardi 
Gras! But to be fair to the com
mittee we must say that it had a 
worthy object in view which was 
none other than to arrange events 
in such order that the alumni can 
take in the maximum number.
Undoubtedly many alumni can 
come on Saturday who find it im
possible to come the preceding days, 
and it was decided to have the 
sweepstakes Saturday for that rea
son.
In the girls sweepstakes kiddy
In pursuance of the Military De
partments policy of showing the 
students where the seventy million 
dollars a year go that the War De
partment spends out of their own 
allotment, the department was able 
to take fifty-four students on tho 
good ship Swan of the U. S. Engi
neers through the locks and down 
the Ohio.
Starting at 9 oclock the men 
gathered on the Boulevard of tho 
Allies, above the lock, where the 
Swan was parked, and proceeded to 
slide down the side of the cliff. Here 
they were greeted by the care-taker, 
who explained Why is a lock-tend
er. About an hour later the Swan 
cut loose with her human cargo, 
about half the visitors on the bridge 
watching tho captain navigate the 
vessel, and the other half navigating 
I about the vessel watching for tlieGAMES FOR WEEK-END, kar. are to be sed, which i ltsel't ^Ptaln-s daughter.
The intricacies of tho locks wereI will create quite a sensation. ----- , . , . , , ...
--------------- . Margaret Morrison Committees. Arts | explained, actual demonstrations beThis will be another eventful commjttees and all of the dormitorweekend for the teams of Carnegie' i0, wl b0 represented. The kiddy 
Tech Even with tho varsity base-, km,B haVe nrrivM nml K is nol u.
ball cancellations, there will be 
full sports calendar on both Friday 
and Saturday.
Varsity tennis and Plebe tennis, 
track and baseball will occupy the 
spotlight on Friday, while varsity 
track and freshman and varsity ten
nis, in addition to the inter-scholastic 
track meet, are carded for Saturday.
The track team is feeling great 
satisfaction at their feat last Satur
day in winning from Allegheny Col
lege in their dual meet on the home 
grounds. The Tartans far surpassed 
their rivals in the track events, but 
were headed by the Methodists In 
the field and weight events. The 
lead gained by the Skibos in the 
dashes was great enough to enable 
them to win by the scant margin of 
three points.
The varsity meet this week is with 
Geneva College, and will be run 
along with the Eighth Annual InterS'cholastic Track Meet. Geneva lias 
a fairly strong team, .but does not 
usually rank in the same class as the 
Tartans. Nevertheless, a stiff battle 
is looked for when the two attempt j 
to settle the question of track and j 
field superiority. Jimmy Rribertson 
who was out of town on an inspecj 
tion trip last Saturday, will probably
common when walking in the park 
to see Co-eds apparently in their 
second childhood, but earnestly 
making it up put down the hills 
on their kars in preparation1 for the 
great event.
Although the costumes are being 
kept secret, it is known that they 
will be delightfully different from 
any. that have gone before. A prize 
is to be offered for the, best, cos
tumes as, woll as for the winner 
rtf the race. Surely you will not 
want to miss the chance of a life
time to see a college girls kiddy 
kar race.
Incidentally, the writer has heard 
a rumor to the effect that the mens 
fraternities will be entered in the 
sweepstakes, but cannot vouch for 
its truth.
r.| ing given where possible, and tho 
wicket dams were thoroughly de
scribed. Having proceeded some 
thirty miles down the river, where 
tho last demonstration was made, 
the bow was ondo more turned up
stream and everyone attacked a de
lightful lunch, furnished by tho de
partment. At 3 o'clock the shore 
was again reached, and the pirates 
hied themselves homo, through the 
rain. A glorious time was had by 
all.
great ball, faced with countless mir
rors, will revolve far above the heads 
tif the dancers. Spot lights of c'hang
The new style of invitation cards are 
double page, havo a plain border, 
and are engraved in English scroll. 
These now invitations will supersede 
the old cards which have boon in 
use since 1919. Tho delivory of the 
new invitations will be jlelayed some
what, duo to tho necessity of se
curing new dies for the Carnogio 
Seal and the engraving, but they will 
be displayed to all tho Seniors Im
mediately upon their arrival.
Tentative arrangements for some 
of the evoiits have already boon coin'Ipleted. It; Is rumored tlint, unlossing colors will play upon the sphere now Blv|mrah,K ,,nol 
! and tho moving mirrors will make, ol 
the silvered ceiling, decorated walls, 
and merry throng a Held dappled
and mottled with blending and shift 
j ing hues.
In the Laboratory an awning of 
... . patterns unexampled and of shadosbe a bio to compete In the Geneva ; t(,n t tl, 1|o01. Th<m>
meet.
The freshman track 'team is liko-ten foot from the floor walls. There 
. , . . , It will' be possible for the thirstywise going up against a rang nK | J,^1C0I. ll)0 fermented
glegation on Friday, when they meet 1,)B  tllat W|U reViv0 ,lvlnc
the clutter path art late o, Indiana | entlm9|8m. tllc I!0ntcl. of ,n
State Normal School on the Skibo , V( 
field. Indiana Normal is almost' aI room a great cone will be suspended, 
Us area covered by a multitude of
traditional rival of Plebe teams, . oxnU(. colorful creation?. Ticfor that reason, the coming meet will I 
be one of unusual interest. Little Is j 
known about the strength  of the | 
visitors, but the Plebes have shown 
power in recent meets, and hope to 
add another victory to their record.. (iance music technique and monopo-| Pl'in I iinphpnnQ A TP 
"Flushed with a victory in their 0f .jie syncopated rhythm that1
Shadyside I m]Uces terpsichorban motion, even
J neatli its broad base the orchestra 
will pipe its tuneful layor rather, 
1 will agitate the air columns in its 
j wind instruments.
The Collegiate Imps, masters of
open for use during Campus Week, 
the Class' of 1924, will have the 
honor of participating in tho first 
swim in tho new pool.
Beany Lowstuttor is going to 
spring an innovation in the program 
for the Senior banquet that will ap
peal to all tho participants, but ho 
refuses to divulgo the secret until 
after Campus Woolc.
Weppner is hard at work looking 
for suitable camping rounds l'or I lie 
1924 Senior picnic, but he has as yet 
been unable to locate an entirely 
satisfactory location. Tho commit
tee wants tho picnic to bo one of tho 
features of Senior Week, and great 
care is being taken in the prepara 
tions for it.
S. I. E. Holds Election
Of Officers for Year
The Society of Industrial Engi
neers held their regular meeting on 
Wednesday evening, April 30, in tho 
form of a smoker.
The early part of the evening was 
devoted to business, and tho election 
of officers for the coming year. The 
results of these elections were as 
follows: President, F. M. McGee,
vice president, ,T. M. Goss, secretary. 
Joseph Christoff; treasurer, Clark 
Heist.
After tho short business session 
was completed, the speaker of tlio 
evening, was introduced. Mr. J. Mar
tin Baker, Metallurgical! and Chemi
calEngineer of the Pittsburgh Steel 
Company of CJlassport., Pa., gavo a 
very interesting discussion on Per
sonal Psychology.
Mr. Baker touched upon tho im
portance of the relationship between 
one another, and how it will effect 
the individual. Cultivation and de
velopment of the liner qualitios in a 
man as a need in students training 
was brought out. That tho highest 
price is paid for the individual who 
develops initiative, is a deep thinker, 
and practices thoroughness was 
driven homo in the speaker's own 
original, but eloquent, stylo. Those 
qualities,, he claims, cannot be 
taught, but are acquired, because of 
the students ability and persistence.
The ability to simplify, states Mr. 
Baker, is tho key to greatness but. 
lastly, ho urged that a student, stop 
in the mad rush of life, occasionally, 
and stop' back from the crowd to get 
a view of life as it really 1L7 Don't 
follow the crowd all the time is the 
secret of personal psychology.
This topic was ono of ospoclnl in
terest to tho students, partly bo:auso of tho lack of emphasis of thin 
subject in their coursos, and partly 
because of its diroct application to 
each Individual. The subject was 
instructive, as woll as inspiring. A 
vote of thanks watt oxtendod to the 
spoakor as tho meeting adjourned.
a. tag In Ills button hole, or if a 
girl, at. any convenient place where 
It. will show. If you do not havo 
yours yot, snap Into it. You can't 
wait forever.
Tickets will not be taken at. tho 
doors by students. Police will prob
ably examine the tags so don't count, 
on having friends to slip you through. 
Buy your tag and support Campus 
Wook. There Is only ono every yoar.
Campumso entO 
kldSo vomustiugT
Architect Designs Home For 
Ind. Exhibition Held 
in Albany
opening game with
Academy last week, the Plebe base* j jn tbe senile, will provide the acball team is preparing for a^ game | compan'inient for the swaying couples
in the Gymnasium. For the Lab
HOENNIGER ELECTED 
TO HEAD T CABINET
Wednesday with the Indiana Normal 
team. As in the case of the visitors* i another orchestra of extensive reptrack team, little is known concernertolre and impressive reputation is 
ing the diamond aggregation. Don; i,eing booked.
Blythe, freshman coach, is looking As the Campus Week plan is for 
for victory in the second game of the ! futuristic designs and decorations,
Plebe schedule.: there is unlimited scope for the creaTcnnis tournaments for the week tion of costumes. In conformity 
also give promise of much interest. \ witli the custom of other years, no 
The varsity team will have quite a j restriction upon the type of dress
F. C. 
J. L.
!. Jioenniger, Max Bastian and! busy time %vith tliroe engagements.1, has i,een made. If students keep th< 
'Seaman will guide the desti-' a11 ot whieh ive indications of ;i j futurist idea in mind, and give thei 
ntes of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet next bard The flrst match imaginations the whole world to
year as a result of the ballot recentpIa)e1 yestCTda>- with Bucknell. and roam, they will have no troutte in - - - the remaining tw^o are scheduled fori concocting combinations inly cast by the members of the or-! ., ,  ,
ganization. It is understood that the Fr||y and_ Satfflday. 
election was exceptionally close 
the case of the presidency, indicat-; 
ing an increase in student interest in j 
Y. M. C. A. affairs.
either lu
dicrous or beautiful.
Friday afternoon brings Allegheny.  The Campus Week tag is the only 
i At the same time the Freshman j ticket which will admit one to the 
I team will gc-t under way with a j Mardi Gras. A tag must be shown 
1 match with Westmont High School I by each person who wishes to enter.
When anyone speaks of Troy Now 
York, most people instinctively think 
I of arrow collars. Wo wish to Inform 
this group that something more than 
arrow collars has come from Troy 
to Carnegie Tech,
Thomas L. Gleason, who entered
Carnegie Tech in September, 1912, 
claims Troy as his home. Tho
Gleason family later located at Al 
bany, where Thomas L. will be
found today. Gleason entered the
College of Fine Arts, registering in eons as a tradition of Carnegie J cch. lhc al.Illt0I,[unil Uy por.
Proving Big Success
The second weekly luncheon of the 
Pittsburgh Clan was* held last Fri
day at the Hotel Henry. The affair 
was even more successful than the 
luncheon held the preceding week, 
and its success practically assures 
the establishment of the Clan lunchEveryone present was enthusiastic 
over the success of these weekly gettogethers, and promised to attend 
evei-y Friday, unless out of the city.
Indications point to a rapidly in
creasing attendance at these afTairs, 
for it was noticed that an entirely 
different crowd was present each 
time, and there are several hundred 
more active alumni in the downtown 
district who have not yet attended 
one of the luncheons. Undoubtedly,
p HNN ' nnio-pflip n i ' of Johnstown, Pa. All six courts will The tags must be purchased by1 with this number to draw on the
be sworn into use for the occasion, j Wednesday, May 14. The committee j Clan luncheons should reach, atelect, has been identified with many 
campus activities, among the more! 
important of which is his position of i 
cheerleader, first assistant baseball 
manager, and president of Teknonn, , ................ . uiiiiu. .iiicgi.'cuv iioo <11 nojaClub. This is Cys third year on the tfce varsity moro competlUon
and lovers of tennis will have their i earnestljr urges that in purchasing least, the quota of fifty, which has 
fill. Westmont boasts of the Mej admission checks for outside friends; been set by the officers of the Clan. 
Laughlin brothers, who are junior' the students use care to see that Remember, all former students and 
j champions of the State of Pennsyl-i they do not finally reach any person' alumni are urged and invited to come 
vania. Allegheny has always giver who would be an undesirable guest.! over to the Henry every Friday noon 
. . the varsity almost more competition The Carnival will last from 9 to 2.! at any time between 12:15 and 1 p
campus ana he is now taking a spethan the varsity likes, in order to In prospect it promises the gayest m.cial course in the College of Indus
tries. His interest in Y affairs ha:fel perfectly safe.I five hoursof the year.
Likewise, a cordial invitation is 
The com-! extended to any friends of Carnegie
sistence and hard work he was able 
to, not only carry his work with 
credit, but received first mention in 
two design exhibits, and was well 
placed in many other competitive 
contests. He was active in class af
fairs, being secretary-treasurer of his 
class in 1914-15, business manager of 
The Thistle in the same-year, and an 
active member of the Architectural 
Club.
While in school. Mr. Gleason was 
entirely self-supporting. He taught 
architecture at. times and spent quite 
a bit of time working with prominent 
firms in the city.
After leaving school, he was quite 
successful in his line of work. Re
cently he achieved a distinction and 
received considerable publicity be
cause of having designed The Home 
Beautiful, which was the center of
SENIOR COA'\A\ERCIALS 
VISIT LIVERPOOL, OHIO
As captain of the baseball team, it 
seems only proper that I should say 
a word toward expressing the feeling 
of members of the toam. 1 know that 
all the boys regret tho fact that such 
a thing occurred to break up what 
looked like the starting of a very suc
cessful season in baseball. I feel 
sure had the seriousness of the of
fense been realized, it would never 
have happened.
Signed, WILLIAM J. CAPPE.
It. Is hard for me to express tho ex
tent; of my regret, for the recent em
barrassment in which I have placed 
the faculty, students, athletic coun
cil, alumni and friends of our inst.it.u-vont to a couple ot songs with much i VT ... , ,,, ..... .... tion. No one can feel more badlyenthusiasm, followed by "Dear Old 1
Tech" and "Fight for the Glory of 
Carnegie," rendered by the Com
mercials, along with a Short Speller I 
for the Rotarians. Prof. Follows )
about this matter than myself for 
nothing has ever caused me moro 
worry, i sincerely regret the incident 
and am sorry that I can only ask you
then spoke briefly' concerning the 10 uc0!' m-v n<!g1l08/
course in Eco'uomic Production, of 
which this visit is an important part. 
Stove Broudy. accompanied .by Tom 
Griggs at the piano, delighted the 
Rotarians with a novelty musical 
number on his famous saw.
Signed, A. C, IRWIN.
1 n. the afternoon, the party went to 
inspect the new No. G plant of the 
Homer Laughlin China Company and 
tho Laughlin sample room, located at 
No. 4 plant. At the No. G plant tho 
most modern means of production in 
tli opottery industry, including the 
new tunnel type kiln were seen.
I take this opportunity of express
ing, through the columns of tho Car
negie Tartan, my deepest apologies 
to those whom I havo wronged by 
allowing myself to play on the Car
negie Tech varsity baseball team 
while knowing that I was Ineligible to 
play, under the strict eligibility codo 
of Carnogio Tech.
Especially do I wish to make apol
ogy to the school for defacing its 
high standards; to tlio student body 
, for being tho cause of tho loss of its 
The trip was arranged through prjncipal spring sport; to the toam
tho pottery industry, including the nn(1 stu<ient management, for deprlvmont of the Y. M. C. A. at East [ j
Liverpool, of which 
Scott is secretary.
Mr. Will Jing them of tho privilege of playing 
| out the season, and receiving tliolr 
letters; to the Athletic Council; and
This is one of the best trips of tho to the Eligibility Committee for all 
course in Economic Production, and ; 0f the trouble that 1 have caused.
the present Junior Commercials can 
look forward with pleasure to 
similar trip next year.
Signed. FRED DUNCAN.
CORONATION OF THE
QUEEN THURS. NITEE. C. ERAZ1ER ELECTED  n t(Continued From Page, One.)PRESIDENT OF TEKNON j pearls. It is to havo a long train,
I with two pages to carry lt.! The 
I Queen will havo a bouquet of fresh 
At the regular mooting of Toknpn spring llowers. The coronation girls, 
Club hold Thursday evening. May 1, malds-oMionor to tho Queen, will bp 
E. C; Frazier was elected to head the I dressed > in the same costumes for
organization for tho coming yoar, to 
sucuoed F. C. Hoonnlgor, Other offi
cer qjoated at this mooting wore Isobel Sowash, vice president; Edith
every two girls, but no colors tho 
same, so that tho effect will be a 
rainbow of color 
Tho background of the throne will
Warron, secretary; and R, E. Hughes, I bo black and the throne itself will be 
treasurer. ! gold Imagino how beautifully tho
Thofjo ofllcors woi'ti Installed at Ihr ; ''udlunt color ot tho costumes will 
Y1S17PB Inst meotliiK of the year, hold J" ll11' ombor-blfe oltho background 
Whon tho -group of maidens ,and 
tliolr Queen roach tho throne, the 
nrclibishp will call tho court to or*
last; night at the Shadyside Presbytorlan church. For a number of years, I 
Teknon has boon probably tho most 
popular organization of Its kind on I 
he eampu. and It Is the desire ol |' 
the new officers to uphold tho present 0 11,0 110 ()u",,n 11,1Kb standards ot the club, l""" , owned ind. after tin. . . . . ,, , ,, crowning, will call for a danoo fromAt last nights meeting, Dr. Hugh
Thompson Korr was prosontod with 10 nill(Details of the dnnco are not to boa slight, token of tho ostoom in which 
ho Is held by tho mombors of tho 
club. I Mans for tho annual outing 
wore also dlscussod. After this event, 
Teknon will olllclally disband until 
next yoar, when Its activities will bo
resumed at the beginning 
school year.
of tho
CLANSMEN FROM EASTI llll 1.111 WIIII'KII M> |MI,Y IALL SET FOR KICK-OFF''...garet. Morrison, Collegi
glvon out as yet, because they aro 
not yot completed, but by next wook, 
the plans will probably be In a com
plete enough form to be able to be 
published. At any rate, Jt will prob
ably bo some form of a minuet:, that 
stately, graceful dauco of days gone 
 by.
An another Innovation this year
there will he a representative from 
each collogo to pay homage to the 
one from MarI garet Morrison, College of Fine Arts.
---------------- j jijHjjfij'iQoving itnd Industriosi and
Practically every alumnus and i these ................ will lm
alumnae lu the Maid, with whom Cargarbed In cap and gown, as a mark 
negln linn from tho campus have mot of, dignity and honor, 
stated that he wore arranging to re-1 After tho entire ceremony and 
turn for Campus Week, Hubbard, dauco aro finished, the proeoHHlon will 
who Is with the Eastern Clay Pro i leave Immediately, the Queen lend*
ducts Association, Is organizing n Ing. and at this point thoro will be 
party to drive back. Dave Ualthor, ; music by the Kiltie Maud,
Who Is located in New York, will be If everything happens as It is
boro. lOxllne, of the Philadelphia J scheduled to happen, (and there Is
Clan. Is coming back. A great many I no reason why It should not bo so), 
mombors of the Philadelphia Clan the whole affair should bo primarily 
havo signified tliolr intention or resuccessful and beautiful. Carnegie 
turning. They Include: Tom Slioa. Will be proud to havo moving plc"Poaches" Coleman, Newcomb, George turps taken of such a stirring and
Burgess and Tony Kerin. In fact, lovely pageant. And. Indeed, tho
fifty per cent of the New York Clan movie men will bo right_ on the> job.
expects to be proBont.; from the time the procession starts
The Erie Muffalo nml Cleveland "til t"<> on1 >r ceremony.
Clima will lie represented by fifty per Tho pictures will be hrondcastod lu
ent of their membership, or better,all the theaters alii over tho country,
and from all reports every clnn should < >> t0',0nmr0J,\n''[:be well represented. As a matter of Participating Jn the WMr 00k
their very best and stand their very 
afford'to proudest, for, after all, the whole ac
complishment. of the lovely tradition 
I odds more fame^and glory to our 
alma, mater. For tho school, men 
and girls can outdo themselves, and 
At the beginning of the tern, anti for tl.e cliool. thoy wHU
fact, anyone who has been here knows 
that no Carnegie man can 
miss this celebration.
MAKING FRIENDS
Saturdays tennis program will be mittee declare unequivocally that the Tec.h who have never attended classes attraction at the Albany Industrial
dated from his Plebe year and his witll -^BSt Virginia University. West I reality will outstrip the anticipation. I at Carnegie. They will be given a i!vh ib it ion 
friends arc glad to see the culmina-: Virff.nia seems - - ' ---------  *- ....... uxmimion.to he somewhat j
tion ot his efforts In his recent elee-, weak Ulls yeal. Judg,nB from CarCOMMITTEE SE'-ECTED
warm welcome by the alumni.
I negies 4-0 victory over them in I
Max Bastian, the newly elected vice Morganl&vn, last Saturday. Hut, 
president, is also a prominent man ,,s indicates nothing, as far as
FOR 1924 SENIOR WEEK | GOT YOUR CAMPUS WEEK
--------- TAG YET? ON SALE NOW
on the campus, having made his let-1(Continued From Page One.1) 
Saturdays match is concerned. The ! Gibson (chairman), Grace Adams,|(Continued From Page One.)
ter iu football during the season oP Freshman meet Wilkinsburg High Grace Sheriff, Martha Zimmerman,, the students to Bee tjiat. the ticket"
1923. 1-Ie is a member of Druids aud this same afternoon on the Wilkins | Margaret Carnes.
is taking a course in architecture, burg courts.
Maxs name was added to the cabi-i __________________
net this year, and his interest; MARDI GRAS IS TO BE
Womens Theater
I do not get into the hands of unde 
PartyGrace| sirable persons who have added unThis cozy little brick bungalow, 
which represented the ideal home, 
was constructed at a cost of $82,000, 
Including the furnishings. It v/as of 
Colonial style, and v/as built actual 
size, The home was constructed and 
fitted throughout for the exposition 
held In the Washington Avenue 
Armory, and Is considered the most
year,
points to a term of achievement as j 
an officer of the Student Cabinet. 
Seamen is also a Sophomore and
j Moore * (chairman), Louise Mclnnes,, pleasant associations to the thought ! perfect structure of Its kind ever 
j Sarah Kerstetter, Sarah Caplan.
GAYEST OF CARNIVALS : Baseball Games  Men's Senior; Week.
1 of some of the events of Campus
(Continued From Page On.)
j SwimArrhur 
j Mark Dawnes. 
Senior Picnic
Reese (chairman),j After Wednesday. It will be Impos
sible for the students to obtain tags 
R. J. Weppner This is done with the idea of keeping
built
The firm Gleason, Mulrooney & 
P.urke, according, to the Carnegie 
Alumnus, were recently awarded 
$100.000 contract for a summer homea member of Druids. He is in the be a mass of fantastic cubist dej oemui .,. * . -..............................- ...............> --r i.wm.m.L
College of Engineering, and while signs, done in every color of the! (chairman).1K. T. Davis. Sanford. outsider from coming on the Camfor poor children
not actively connected with the cabrainbow and several that the rain-| PublicityFred Rossini, Norbert pus and purchasing tickets at the, Even though, bn has been busy In
inet, is expected to prove a valuable bow never knew, and executed in j Weser.
add tion thereto. such startling and provoking fashion! President Baker, Mr. Bright, Mr.'lately no tags will be so'd at the
The retiringofficers, Griggs, Hoen-'that they will delude even the prac Tarbell and f lie school trustees are I door during the Mardi Gras, or any
door during the Mardi Gras, or anv jjre and successful In business, Mr.
Gleason never1 misses a chance to
Here is a disagreeable contingency 
what if it should rain? If. is hate
ful to think of such conditions in the 
weather, but if it should be so de
creed by the fates, the committee 
has arranged to have the ceremony 
take place In the new gym. A plat
form will be erected for the corona, . , .  . . , | tion, and events will transpire as ifties; In .fact, nearly all our-interests 0X1,cpl thnt artuIcto, lightespecially at the first of tlie Fall term, j 
\ve liave an opportun!ty to make 
frlends. Friendshlps formed in college are the friendshlps which bene-; 
fit us nist, for here we are on equal ! 
terms wlth all tliose wlth whom we 
assoclate. We are all interested in j 
studles, athletics, universlty act!vi-|
are common. When friends are on 
the same level they really know eaching will have to be employed.
Thus far, we have been singularly
other and cani acquire the ability to (ortunnte hnvlnK beautiful weather 
judge personality.
There is one dangerin makingfor our celebraton week, and we are 
, , , , 41 . . .. . ,all of us hoping, naturally, that itMenda, and thnt la tliat we may moke' w| ]l0l|| f0]. u,, ycnri but ,f ,t
?ew shMldn't. lite eommltteo aasures yenthat everythlng is being done, to insure a successful coronation, 
hall, or sunshine!
are formed in which the students en 
joy the companionship of each other 
but forget that there may bo a few 
who were left out of any group.
Perhaps those who are most, apt to j CHOOSE BACCALAUREATE 
limit their number of acquaintances 
are the students who were In school 
recently and have returned. When
rain,
iSPEAKER FOR THIS YEAR
(Continued From Paire 0110,1
they come back they greet their comjn VUBX be had charge In both St. Paul 
panions of the year before and pro-, nn,j Ohego. Ile was also president 
coed to spend all tliolr leisure time 1 of ,ho Starret.!. School for Girls, Chiwith them, neglecting to meet, now cago,
students. j |* addition his pastoral duties,
Whether we come under any of the) |>_ Covert has earned an undeniable 
classes mentioned or not, we can all : reputation as an author. Some of his 
do considerable more getting ac-1 JnteroHtlng studies aro "The Plumb 
qualntod than wo havo thus far this I Dine, "Tho Glory of the Pine, 
yoar. Remember ono thinga perj "Wlldwoods and Waterways, "New 
son can never havo too many real Furroiighs In Old Fields;'
prac I
theiri ticl-minded, engineer into believing] o be commended for their a?d in] other event.niger and Frazier, will hav 
plr^es capably filled by the new that he is in another world.
boost for Carnegie Tech. He helps 
to advertise his Alma Mater In many
helping the Senior Week Committee When you get your tag. wear it! ! of the New York State schools in
In the center of the Gynasium ai arrange for new 1924 invitations. Buy today, every student should have j every -way he can.
Writing and Reading.
His home is in Chicago, where ho 
I was lately the pastor of the First 
I Presbyterian Church of that city.
Never write on a subject without i Since becoming General Secretary of 
having read yourself full on It and i the Board of Christian Education of 
never read on 11 ubjeet till you bave the Presbyterian church, he has rerhuughl yourself hungry on It.sided in Philadelphia.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTHURSDAY, MAY 8. 1924SWIMMING POOL AWAITS ALUMNI
SONG BOOKS TO 
APPEAR DURING 
CAMPUS WEEK
First Thousand Books Sold in 
Two DaysSecond Edition 
to be Placed on Sale at the 
Alumni Luncheon Saturday
TO BE SOLD FOR $1.00
One thouBand coplon of the Car
negie Song Book wold in two day!
But that in Campus history, for 
those thousand copies of Carnegies 
ilrst' song hook appeared and dis
appeared so suddenly that tho visible 
impression that they made was, in a 
measure, Blight.
That the Song Book was on Bale, 
every one,knew, for there were ap
proximately a hundred salesmen on 
the campus and the books had been 
advertised until all the bulletin 
b'oards fairly shrieked of Eskimo 
Babies and Hieroglyphic Ditties. But 
the books Bold 5, rapidly that at the 
end of the second day sales had to 
be closed, and the poster advertising 
taken away. It so happened that the 
thousand copies had so widely dif
fused themaelveB throughout the, stu
dent body that it is difficult to discover them. But they made, Jn the 
truest sense, a very great impression.
Students who had failed to pur
chase books when the sale was on 
were heard to remark that they 
wished that they had bought a Song 
Book. This wish on the part of the 
student body soon developed into an 
attitude that demanded the publicaPOOL TO BE OPEN 
FOII CAMPUS WEEK
C C A MPUUPSW EKY, jPjHOBUHLR LT RPF
i HE TELESCOPE I alumni show duildine dy grads
Alumni and Seniors to be 
Accorded Privilege of 
Dip in Tank
The gymnasium will bo open for 
inspection, and the pool for intlmato 
examination, byi the alumni during 
Campus Week, The welcome news 
was issued from oillcial sources last 
week,
There will bo two periods for use 
of tho pool. Tho ladies will be given 
tho privilege of tho ilrst dip In the 
new tank on Friday evening, May 10. 
On the next afternoon the doors will 
be opened to the men. Seniors will 
also bo admitted to the ilrst two 
swimming periods.
For a tlmo it was feared that the 
pool would not bo ready for use by 
Campus Week, hut as it was very 
much desired to give tho alumni tho 
opportunity of getting wet in their 
alma maters own natatorlum, work 
was rushed and swimming parties aro 
now assured events of May 10 and 
17.
The pool is also to be open for 
the use of students during the sum
mer session. Jt will supply a reliev
ing feature in a summer of study. A 
swimming instructor will be on hand 
at all times.
The dimensions of the tank are 75 
foet by 35 feet with a depth ranging 
from four to nine feet. It is one of 
the largest college pools in the coun
try, its capacity belnb 130,000 gal
lons. Water is constantly carried 
from the pool to the illter beds and 
back again. Liquid chlorine is the 
disinfecting agent, and bacteriological 
tests of the water are made dally.
Alumni are expected to avail themtion of a second edition of the book.
The publishing flrm is now working I selves of the opportunity to examine 
overtime In an effort to get the secthe commodious structure. They are
sure to be struck by its spaciousness, 
architectural beauty, and carefully 
planned details. The offices, club 
rooms, handball courts, gymnasiums, 
locker rooms, shower rooms, and 
pool aro all worthy of attention.
Justice and Injustice.
Punishment should not be Inflicted 
on some while others equally guilty 
are not even brought to trial.
olul edition of Carnegies Song Book 
on the ^campus for the biggest Jolli
fication of tho year, Campus Weelc.
It is positively assured that, 
whether the hooks arrive on time oi 
not, the alumni will havo the first 
opportunity to spend a dollar for a 
Song Book. If this consideration is 
not shown tlio alumni, It In feared 
that the student body will deprive 
them of tills opportunity as they did, 
all but tho oiio hundred and fifty 
alumni who bought books of the 
initial issue. Tills opportunity to buy 
tho books will probably be glvon at 
tho Alumni Luncheon, to bo held 
Saturday ol! Campus Week.
If tho alumni aro really Interested 
in tho Song Book tho snles staff is 
going to have an Interesting mathe
matical proposition on its hands to interpretation of Ills own work, whon
supply, from an order of one thou-1 ho conducted it for tho Mens Glee
sand coplen, the twonfy-fhroo bun-' Club and the. Arts Collogo orchestra, 
drod day and two thousand night Of aourso, tho good, old-familiar 
students who have not yot bought songs, "Dear Old Tech," "Fight For
books. The Glory of Carnogio,....Pooh, Tocli,
Ono of tho notable things about Toeh, Tech," and others an! Included. 
Carnegie's Song Book 1 tho fact that in: "Dear Old Tech" had boon omitted 
out of tho twonty-nlno songs thoro LX would not havo boon a Carnogl'
pep and snap, yet retaining the 
dignity fitting a song of tills kind; 
not ono of those funeral marches 
that so many schools call Alma 
Maters. Mr, OBrien has scored the 
music for full symphony orchestra, 
and last Carnegie Day gave us his
CAMPUS WEEK
That annual period to which under
graduates look forward throughout 
tho school year is now witli us, or 
nearly so, Tho fifth Campus Week 
will be as big a success as those that 
have gone before and it will benefit 
by the experiences - of tho festivals 
which havo gone before. As we go to 
press there is absolute certainty that 
tlio number of Alumni and Alumnae, 
who will return to their old haunts 
for the celebration will surpass any
thing ever known here. Carnegio 
Alumni appreciate the work of the 
undergraduates done for the edifica
tion of the graduates and they voice 
tiieir thanks by taking full advantage 
of the opportunities afforded them 
for reunion and recreation.
From Fast and West, North and 
South, the bunch will be here. Many 
of them are bumming their way to 
get back, and numbers will arrive Jn 
cars. The roads are fine, the weather 
Is likely to bo perfect, and whether it 
Is or not, the spirit will be there. 
When wo say spirit we refer to that 
elusive something, which has raised 
Carnegie to her present pinnacle. 
That spirit of perfect comradeship, 
without rowdyism, which it is so 
hard to find in tills world.
page. , CLANS ARE BENEFICIAL. I 
CLANS ARK USEFUL. CLANS . 
MUST BE SUPPORTED.
Incidentally. There are other clans 
than, the Harrisburg Clan, who have: 
proved themselves worthy of exist-j 
ence. It is unfortunate that some j 
means cannot be devised whereby we j 
Alumni can let each other know of; 
our experiences and accomplishments! 
for the Good of Carnegie. The Carj 
negie Tartan is willing to aid in any ! 
suggestion offered by you, insofar as 
it is possible. Drop in during Camj 
pus Week or send us a letter.
THE CLANS AND THEIR PURPOSE
Last fall, a grad wrote a letter to 
the Alumni Editor, in which he at
tacked the clans viciously, stating 
that they were of no value whatso
ever, and not worthy of support.
Numerous strong and exact, as well 
as convincing arguments were ad
vanced by clan advocates against the 
views and opinions expressed by the 
writer of the first letter, who unfor
tunately preferred to keep his iden
tity a secret. The anonymous geqtiepian evidently was convinced or did 
not feel capable of supporting his 
statements for ho was never again 
heard from though repeatedly asked 
to answer through our columns.
The matter has been allowed to die 
down. That is a pity, for we can think 
of no more'convincing arguments than 
the facts presented by the Harris
burg Clan on tho opposite page. It is 
hard to contradict facts. It is espe
cially hard to do so, when they aro 
of such a nature as on the opposite
aro lo ss tluin a half-dozon whlch ar 
not puro Carnoglo produciti. In all 
bui, thoflo fow lufttanomi bolli Ilio 
woi'dn and muoio ol' tho nonna havo 
boon wrltton by otiulontn, thh milleing CarnogloH Hong Hook unlquo 
among ooloctlons ol1 collogo nonna. 
Anothor fon turo of tho.sonRii In timi, 
tlioy aro oiuiy lo loarn, and not a fow 
ol! tliom aro aluoudy popolar wlth tho 
iitudonln.
il. In a common oocurronoo, now, to 
hoar nung or whlntlod on tho campus 
tho ups and downa In tho oxporlonco 
of a cortain "SI MoNudd," wlio onco 
upon a timo carne to "'Podi." il always onds wlth tho solenni doolaratlon that tho ".goali darnod fami, who 
alnt wliat alio used to ho without 
toehuology," In a stralli closoly aitili 
to the music wlllch onds tho "Old 
Gray Maro."
Song Hook, and If "Fight For Tho 
Glory Of Gurnoglo" had boon loft out 
II, would not havo boon a song book 
al, all, or at leant not ono with any 
Intermit for Carnogio mon and women. 
Hut the oompllorn know Carnogio 
tradition and, since tradition domandod that thono two songs be
come a part of the book, tho Car
negie Song Hook becomes a \now 
bond In tho tradition, which links 
the past to the pronont.
So(to quote a nlau/a from one 
of tho favorite now songs)
Como on along to Toeh, you'll find 
us right on dock,
And wo will do our boHt for yon. 
And, when It comes to pep, you ain't 
seen nothing yet;
But we can show you what we'll do. 
For spirit the Scotch have no limit,
Tlio new Alma Mater is included, I And tho bOBt you can do is get in it. 
tho same familiar words lni.t with' 
new Carnogio Tech music. Mr.
OBrien, who wrote the new music, 
says that ho wants Carnegie to have 
an Alma Mater that shall have some
So
come along to Tech, youll find us 
right on deck,
And well do our best for you.
The Department of Metallurgy 
and Mining
By Prof. Fred Crabtree.
Mining and metallurgical indus
tries, complex in their nature, indispensable to modern civilization, 
ever increasing in tli6 magnitude 
and variety of their operations, are 
calling for increasing numbers of 
technically trained, capable, reliable, 
men. The mining, smelting and I 
working of ores, minerals, aiul metals, 
continue to present new problems, 
new fields of effort, greater demand 
for skill and intelligence, and great-! 
er opportunities for enjoyable em-i 
ploy men t.
Such a great industrial district as 
Pittsburgh offers many advantages! 
to students in mining and metallurgy; 
giving Ihom a chance, not only to 
see tho practical operations, but to 
got an insight Into tho spirit of tho 
industries that can be obtained only 
by actual contact with tho men en
gaged In thorn.
The equvBOS of Instruction are de
signed to omphasl'/.o tho scientific 
principles Involved, and then to il
lustrate tliolr application, both by 
laboratory experiments and by ob
servation of actual rommereial op
erations. It Is realized that tho first 
function of tho school is to train the 
students minds, to develop their 
mental powers. For this the student; 
must get a sound introduction to 
such fundamental subjects as chomistry, physics, mathematics, mechanics. 
A reasonable amount of time is 
spent on the distinctively profes
sional subjectsmineralogy, geology, 
mining methods and engineering, 
metallurgy, metallography, etc.
It is realized that some students 
are better fitted for, or prefer, pro
duction or operating work, while
SATURDAY, MAY 17.
Saturday will be-a mighty busy day. 
The Mardi Gras, which, by the way 
will be somewhat less humid, will 
send you to bed late Friday night 
or rather Saturday morning.
Then, while you are still trying 
to go to sleep, the alarm clock will 
ring for you must get up to see the 
sweepBtakes. The best part is first 
too, the girls and their kiddy-kars are 
going to hold a race with start, cor
ners, collisions, accidents and stops, 
and all the trimmins. Just like a 
regular race. O MY.YES.
] Then immediately after the boys 
j race, you will be due at the big feed.
| Officially known as the Alumni Lunch
eon. You will be fed but not talked 
I to death. You will be addressed by 
the Honorable Judge Walter P. Stef, fen, and there will be some recrea
tion in between the courses. Oh,
yes, of course, there will be courses. 
Did you ever hear of a caterer serv
ing a luncheon without having
courses?' Impossible.
Woll, when you are kicked out of 
the big hall, you will be expected to 
go to the new swimming pool, and 
take part in the initiation of that.
Yes, the pool has pot yet been used
and will not be used until Saturday, 
May 17, when dedication exercises 
i will take place. Each man will be 
I expected to make a short speech as 
j he makes tbe famous swan dive, such 
as: "There aint no sech animal,
while the faculty quartet will render: 
If the ocean were whisky, and I was 
a duck. It will'be very appropriate 
and woll worth attending. It will be 
Saturday too, dont forget that.
Then, wiping the water from your 
manly brow you will be hustled to
some place where you can meet old 
acquaintances and new ones as well, 
for that is the time set for the Wo
mens Banquet, the departmental 
dinners, the class reunions, etc.
But, that is not all yet, for The 
Blue Bandana will need unfolding at 
the Schenley Theater, and here again 
will the Alumni and Alumnae reign 
supreme. It is all yours.
RESERVATIONS, TICKETS,
AND REGISTRATION
The reservations for the luncheon 
have been pouring into the Alumni 
Office and a large number of the 
play: "The Blue Bandana have
been taken. You must get your res
ervations iu now. The discomfort 
and rush due to last hour reserva
tions from last hour arrivals is ln 
large measure unnecessary and unexcusable. Avoid it.
THE REGISTRATION BOOTH AT 
THE LIBRARY HUT IS ALUMNI 
HEADQUARTERS. Get your badge 
there, telling your name, and your 
class so that your friends will be able 
to look behind the mask that the 
years have put on you and recognize 
you. You expect them to do that. 
Reciprocate.
GREAT HOPES Recent Addition to Campus
Sure to Please All Who
All Communications Indicate 
That Grads Are as Excited 
as Students Anticipating 
Festival Now Imminent
Return Here
STATEMENTS QUOTED
THE DRAMATS
A Minneapolis Journal informs us 
that Mary Pickford, the movie star, 
recently advocated the establishment 
of a government institution for the 
education of young aspirants for ci
nema honors. The courses, she 
stated, were to be given along, the 
lines followed by the Drama Depart
ment at Carnegie. Miss Pickford 
even intimated that if the govern
ment did not show some speed she 
herself would take the initiative. Hhmm, these compliments for the 
Drama Department are losing their 
novelty. There are so many of them.
For instance, Mack S'ennett has re
cently appointed -Miss Agnes K. 
OMalley, a former student, as one of 
his directors.
A. recent exhibit held in Detroit, 
Michigan, featured work done by stu
dents of Costume Economics here 
along with some done in other col
leges. The Carnegie exhibits at
tracted a good deal more notice than 
all the other work put together.
May 15, 16 and 17
CORONATION OF A 
QUEEN OF BEAUTY
REGISTRATION OF ALL 
RETURNING HI:RE ASKED
InJFront of Design Bldg. 
Thursday Eve.
Toch'8 most beautiful girl will bo 
crowned Queen oi' Campus Woolc on 
Thursday evening at 7 oclock. TI10
Tho Alumni Headquarters will bo Will Take Place on Terrace' mn*n 1,1 *11(5(1 during the entire Campus
1 Week celebration 011 the porch of 
tho Hut Library. Last year over six 
hundred alumni registered, and this 
yoar wo want everyone to register, 
immediately after their arrival on 
the Campus. Come to headquarters, 
right off tho bat for first-hand info"
I 011 anything and everything. Some 
ono will bo 011. tlio job at all times 
to give you the dope" 011 who's 
hero and what they aro doing, and 
tho now Alumni Recognition But
ton and tho Carnegie Song Book will 
bo on display; You will bo interest
ed In looking them over. Just re
member, when you arrive, that you 
buddies know
ooiitumoH for the ceremony this yoar 
will bo taken, from tlio Eighteenth 
Century period, that Is, tight bodlcos 
with the neckline falling gracefully 
from the shoulders, and full skirts 
with hi)) panniers. That was the 
period of powdered hair, and Techs 
Queen and her beautiful attendants, , , , , ,
will Mirrv ...It this quaintly j.loB"0'"11 lot
1 nr.....no cUBtom with whitoiiod ir. >' registering at tlio
furea. The Queen1 gown will hu of | Alumul Headquarters, 
white satin, trimmed with pearls,
.....I tile frock of the nml,Is ot honor W. J. REILLY, WELL-KNOWN 
will be of various shades of Hie rain-1 ALUMNUS DISCUSSES GROCERIES 
bow.
The Coronation Procession will be-1 William .T. Reilly, well known alumgin at Machinery Hall and move up miR. is setting the world afire
the Boardwalk to the Arts Building. ' Clom ]lia new haunts at Chicago UniThe honorary fraternity men of Arts versily. This time Bill has broken 
School will be the guard of honor. 1 through with an article on Advanand the Boardwalks will be roped off I tages of the Individual Grocer Over 
by strips of colored crepe paper, and j the Chain Store appearing in tho 
the spectators will stand on the j March issue of the International Grobanks on either side. cer.
Photographers will take movies of | Bill was graduated with a B. S. deMARDI GRAS TO BE 
BIG EVENT OF C. W.
Langley Lab and Gym to be 
Scene of Carnival 
Friday Evening
Are the alumni coming back for 
Campus Week? They certainly are, 
and they are bringing with them 
some of that good old Carnegie spir
it we hear so much about, yet 
scarcely ever see displayed except 
at a Pitt-Carnegie football game.
If you think the students are 
keyed up over Campus Week, just 
let your eyes rest for a few mo
ments upon some of the letters from 
alumni printed below. Some of the 
writers have been out of college for 
ten or twelve years, but would you 
ever guess it from the way they 
write? It sounds as though they 
had been away from Home Sweet 
Home for a few days and were ex
periencing a first attack of the peculier malady known as homesick
ness.
But judge for yourselfthe letters 
follow:
Dear Tom:
I am heartily in favor of Campus 
Week, think it is a splendid oppor
tunity for graduates to renew and 
strengthen the bonds of friendship 
formed while undergraduates, and 
intend to be on hand to enjoy the 
best Campus Week ever.
EDDIE HERS OH, 20.
Science
My dear Mr. McDonald: 
During the three years that I was 
in Boston, I read about Campus 
Week and longed to be there. Last 
year I spent a part of two days 
on the campus, and the whole affair 
came up to my expectations so well, 
that this year I plan to take part 
(Continued on Page Seven.)
The gymnasium will be open for 
inspection during Campus Week.
Ample opportunity will be given 
for all to make a thorough inspec
tion of the complete building and, in 
addition, the Alumni Get-Together 
Luncheon will be held in the im
mense gymnasium on Saturday of 
Campus Week.
Perhaps, aword here on the con
struction of the new gymnasium 
would be of interest to many alumni. 
It is interesting to know that the 
S. M. S'iesel Company of Pittsburgh 
and Milwaukee, headed by S. M. 
Siesel, a Carnegie Tech graduate of 
1908, are the general contractors for 
the building. The plans, which were 
designed by Henry Hornbostel, archi
tect, have given 'Carnegie one of 
the finest gymnasiums in the covmtry. The building consists of four 
separate unitsthe womens gym
nasium, the administration building 
and the swimming pool. It is said 
that the mens gymnasium and the 
swimming pool are the largest in 
Pittsburgh. Each gymnasium and 
swimming pool connects by corridors 
with the administration building, 
which is located in the center of the 
group, and which is one-story higher 
than the other units. The building, 
is constructed of light-colored build
ing brick, terra cotta and copper, 
and in its general appearance har
monizes completely with the other 
Carnegie Tech buildings.
The addition of the new gymnasium 
to the Carnegie Tech group brings, 
the total up to seven buildings, ex
clusive of the library, field' house and 
the dormitories. Probably this ad
vance dope will interest a lot of 
the old alumni who have not been 
around for at least a year, and who 
have, perhaps, heard of the new 
gymnasium, but have not read any
thing definite about it in the news
papers.
temceloalmstBStor 48DafTiip toEmope
Including oimd Trip lit*
Steamship Fare md. w' ^54 Bay# in Europe
others are better suited to technical 
investigation, research, or other lines 
of work. Attempt is made to guide 
the student into the type of work 
' for which he is best fitted, and to 
give him the best preparation for 
that type.
The mining and ore dressing 
laboratories present some very 
usual features which are used ef
fectively in instruction work. The 
electric furnace laboratory is one of 
tho best in American educational in
stitutions. The metallurgical and 
metallography laboratories are well 
equipped and aro doing better work 
each year.
In addition, the development of 
tho co-operation in research work 
with the United States Bureau of 
Mines, through Research Fellowship, 
in both Mining and Metallurgy, Is 
extending the scope of the depart
ment and placing greater facilities 
within reach of our students. Very 
gratifying results have boon achieved 
by the Investigations of mining prob
lems during the past two years, and 
is!ill better results aro to bo expect* 
I ed tu the near future. These investi
gations, applied to problems actually 
bearing on industrial operations in 
tills district,, servo to bring the doI partmont info closer contact with 
j operating conditions and problems. 
Recognizing the desirability of liavthe scene, which will) be shown later 
in the Pittsburgh theaters.
The Coronation itself will be on 
the Court in front of Design Sqliool, 
and the Queen of Beauty will lie 
crowned by the Archbishop of Tech.
, ing advice from experienced and 
capable men in the industries, the 
Department of Mining and Metal! lurgy has been fortunate in securing 
! for its two advisory boards more 
than forty of the most prominent of
ficials and consulting engineers of 
the leading mining and metallurgical 
| companies of the State.
A new sport oxford for 
campus, links, court or 
verandn! Soft tan buckskin 
apron and side panels of 
calfskin artfully combined 
for servis and comfort  
John Ward Soles of
cruderubber -TheSeapult, 
and many other new 
model, wll be shown, by 
Dnvld T. Kirkpatrick at
SKIBO INN 
on Saturday, May 17 
and Monday, May 19
The SEAPU1T 
$9
Stores in NetvYork,Erooklyn, Newark 
Phila.'K, Address for Mail Ordcw 
ill Du ans s tree e-ffcwYork City
gree in Commercial Engineering in 
1921, and last year lie recived his 
M. S. degree after a years service as 
a research assistant in the office of 
Dr. W. F. Rittmn, Head of the De
partment of Commercial Engineering. 
At present he is Research Assistant 
j at the University of Chicago.
*
Quite a Difference.
; Difference between, enthusiasm nnd 
j gusli is that enthusiasm is not applied 
to the trivial.
MHOEY5After Every Meal
Its llie longest-lasting 
confection you can buy 
-and its a help to di
gestion and a cleanser 
tor the inoutli 
\ and teeth.
Wrlfllcy's means 
benefit ns well us 
pleasure.
You aro coming the the Mardi 
Gras, arent you? Spanish torea
dors, Roman gladiators, Chinese 
coolies, Hindoo dancing girls, Dutch 
peasants, Russia 11 bolslievists, 
Madame Butterflies  all will be 
there.
The New Gym and Langley Lab 
will bo the sceiie of the brilliant 
festivities, on Friday night of May 
hi, and there will be an electrically 
illuminated promenade through the 
park, between the Lab and Gym. The 
two buildings will be decorated in 
colorful futuristic designs, in ac
cordance with the spirit of fun and 
merry-making, which will prevail 
that night. A new lighting effect 
will be used in the Gym and spot
lights of many colors will be played 
upon the costumed assemblage.
Admission will be by presentation 
of Campus Week tags110 other 
change will be made, but each perI son attending must have a tag. 
i There will he no tags sold that night.
1 This precaution is being taken to 
prevent the attendance of outsiders, 
and to insure that the Mardi Gras 
will be an alPTecli affair.
The music in the Gym will be fur
nished by the Collegiate Imps, whose 
excellence and popularity is firmly 
established on the Campus. Langley 
Lab will echo the strains of the 
Steel City Orchestra from Pitt. They 
are unknown at Carnegie, and will 
take tliis opporetunity to prove them
selves an aggregation with pep and 
snap.
You cant afford to miss the Mardi 
Gras this year. You can be assured 
I that it will be the best Mardi Gras 
that Carnegie has ever had, and one 
of the most enjoyable events of the 
Carnival Week.
Damon
Wlmt nro you dolntr, Tyth 
writing Her another letter?"
Pythias
Nonot this tlmo. Something: more to the point, ns one would say. Im writing the Pater to send me 1 dozen Eldorado pencils. They are all sold out down at the store."
ELDORADO
'Ute master drawingpendi'
S
END the coupon below for the 16 page book
let telling how he made a 48 day trip to Europe 
at an average cost of $7.13 a day including 34 
days in Europe and round trip steamship fare. 
With it you will receive illustrated literature show
ing third cabin accommodations, sailings and pas
sage rates on United States Lines ships, also the 
folder Whats Going on in Europe in 1924.
To make a European trip possible for students 
and teachers at a minimum cost these United 
States Lines ships will have exclusive third cabin 
accommodations reserved:
S. S. President Harding - June 24S. S. Republic .... July 3S. S. Leviathan - - - - July 5
For your return similar exclusive reservations have 
been made on westbound ships.
College women are invited particularly to make 
reservations on the S. S. Republic sailing July 3rd 
as special third cabin accommodations are available 
under proper chaperonage. Women will also be 
especially chaperoned on the other ships listed above 
and on the return trips.
Third Class Cabin on United States 
Lines Ships Is Not Steerage
Third class cabins on these ships accommodate 2, 4 or 6 
persons. They are clean, airy and comfortable. The berths 
have soft, sanitary mattresses and clean linen;water and 
other conveniences in each stateroom. The food is wholesome, 
appetizing and plentiful and service of the best. Public rooms 
are large and inviting. Ample deck space is provided for 
games and dances. Daily concerts are a feature of the voyage.
This is your chance to enjoy the cultural and educational 
advantages of Europe at the lowest cost possible in years. 
Dozens of international events are taking place in Europe 
this summer including the Olympic games and the British 
Empire Exhibition.
jnited States Lines
45 Broadway Tel. Whitehall 2800 New York City
or Your Local Agent 
Managing Opera tors forUNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD
Send the Coupon
INFORMATION BLANK
United States Lines 45Brotdvoy. N.Y.
IMeaie cnil me without obligation the book* 
lets and literature describing low price trips 
to Europe.
4U 
Ci:/_

---------------------------------------------------

I
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVENANNUAL LUNCHEON IN NEW GYM
WOMENS BANQUET 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
OF CAMPUS WEEK
DO YOU KNOW?
"Will Be Larger Than Ever 
Director Breed To Be 
Principal Speaker
One ot the biggest affairs of 
Campus Week 'will "be the Womens 
Banquet, to be held in. the Commons 
on Saturday evening, May 17, for 
the Alumnae and students oi Mar
garet Morrison. It will he a re
union of old friends, even more of 
a reunion than are the functions 
held by the Carnegie Womens Clan, 
of Fittsburgh, because it will be at
tended by the out-of-town visitors on 
the Campus, who are anxiously 
awaiting this opportunity for an 
old-time gathering to repair old 
iriendships and make new ones.
The Commons will be so arranged 
that the members of each class will 
have a table reserved for them, and 
they will again he as closely -united 
as they were in the days when they 
attended Maggie Murph together. 
Every class that has graduated since 
1909 will be represented. A class 
song has been composed by each 
class now in Margaret Morrison and 
Arts ana will he sung at the ban
quet.
Miss Mary Breed, Director of Mar
garet Morrison College, will welcome 
hack these old friends, whom she 
has seen come and go, year after 
year, since the days when Tech was 
in her very infancy. Miss Breeds 
subject will be "The American As
sociation of University Women. 
Miss Mary Louise Brown, Dean of 
Women, will also speak to the 
Alumnae. A short address, on Then 
and Now will be made by Miss 
Milicent Leech of the Class of 15.
The music for this occasion will 
be furnished by the Stringers, Techs 
own popular girl-orchestra, and a 
program of lively and appropriate 
music has been prepared.
The Banquet will be served
promptly at 5:30 oclock, so that the
guests will have ample time to en
joy it before the Alumni performance 
of The Blue Bandana, at tho 
Schenley Theater, later in the even
ing.
The Freshman girls will do the
serving, dressed in black costumes, 
with dainty white aprons and caps. 
The price of the tickets for the Ban
quet is .$1.50. The committee re
quests that you make reservation as 
soon as possible to insure your se
curing a cover.
That Campus Week this year has 
been planned by using the best parts 
of previous Campus Week programs, 
and adding a few new innovations? 
This combination promises one of the 
best and most complete programs 
ever attempted?
That the Alumni Luncheon will be 
held in the New Gymnasium, and 
will be served in a classy style?
That several of the classes are 
planning to meet the graduates of 
their respective courses who have 
been out in the world at a dinner in 
the Commons on Saturday evening 
of Campus Week?
That Campus Week this year will 
not only start with a bang, but will 
finish with a feature stunt and a 
louder bang?
Architects From Far 
And Near Gather Here
Revises I. C. S. Text 
On Heating Course
Department Head Chosen to 
Revise School Book
The International Correspondence 
School, in looking about for a com
petent man to revise their text 
books of their heating and ventilat
ing courses, were referred to the 
American Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers in New York 
City. This body is probably one of 
the best authorities on this subject 
in the country today. The secretary 
of the society, in an answer, gave 
the following recommendation:
"In my mind Mr. Dibble has the 
best practical heating and ventilat
ing department in any school In the 
country. He is at present time 
teaching and understands educational 
problems; lie is in close touch with 
practical heating, ventilating and 
plumbing problems, and is rapidly 
making a name for himself in the 
profession. He is at present a mem
ber of the council and vice president 
of the American Society of Heating 
and Ventilating Engineers. He is 
also the author of a handbook on 
heating and ventilating.
Upon the strength of this recom
mendation, the I. C. S. have asked 
Mr. Dibble to revise their texts.
Mr. Dibble has started the work of 
revising the 95 books of 75 to 80 
pages each, and hopes to have the 
job completed in the near future. II 
will be of interest to Carnegie men 
'to know that this school is recogniz
ed as the foremost one in this line 
of work. Also that Carnegie Tech is 
fortunate enough to have a man of 
Mr. Dibbles caliber at tho head of 
the course.
Staid Professional Men Will 
Mingle With Youngsters
Everyone of the old architect bunch 
will be outFitz and "Pink Spigel are coming from Norfolk; "Red 
Jones and Bill Nuzum will be up from 
the "wilds of West Virginia and the 
rest of the gang will all roll in 
sometime between Wednesday and 
Saturday of Campus Week. Here they 
arewrite anyone you think may 
need some coaxing to be on the job.
"Biz King, "Bill Finkle, "Cap 
Wait, "Gilky Gilksson, "Red Jones, 
Bill Nuzum, Bearinger, Dillenbach, 
Critchlow, Red Hatcher, Lamont,
Rigaumont, Boyer, Pete Withers, 
Fitzgibbons, "Shaubie, Hays, McWil
liams, Burkhart, Allison, Moss, "Pete 
Sterling, Button. Crosby, Ebeling, 
"Rags Raguere, Mawhinney, Flem
ing, Disque, Gilg, Franks, "Deacon 
Kingsley, "Goodie, "Cutie Evans, 
"Hump, Chalfant, Andrews, Lenhart, 
Douglas, "Birdie McCullough, Geliron, "Coxey Hay, "Toots Keally, 
"Bry Lose, Mitchell, Reed Sims, Ed 
Crump, Weller, McCaugliey, Phillips, 
Wlldman, Jfcclc Gay, Lappley, "ill 
Drihl, Mason, Scottle Harold, Kirchenbauer, Pink Spigel, Doc Heil
man, "Doug Armstrong, Kilburn, "Cu
tie OBrien, Hazelton, Rownd, Messerschmidt, Weigler, Berner, Gleason 
and all the youngsters.
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURG CLAN LUNCHEONS
The Pittsburgh Clan luncheons, 
which are being held every Friday 
noon at the Hotel Henry, have 
proved very successful, and will be 
held every Friday in the future at 
the same time and place. There had 
been a demand for these affairs for 
many years, but for various reasons 
it had been found impractical to 
hold a weekly luncheon. The first 
three weeks showed an average at
tendance of twenty-five men, but it 
is expected that this attendance will 
be raised to at least forty. There are 
no requirements for admission. You 
simply drop in between 12:15 and 1 
p. m., eat your lunch and pay your 
check, which will be 75 cents. If 
you are a former student, an 
alumnus, a senior at Carnegie, a 
member of the faculty or administra
tion, or just a rooter for Carnegie, 
you, are invited to attend. You are 
promised a good lunch and no tire
some and long-winded speeches. This 
feature of the weekly luncheon has 
proved a big drawing Card, and will 
be continued.
Among those who have attended 
the first three luncheons are the fol
lowing: Samuel Wolf, J. B. Zim
merman, J. F. Laboon, C. W. Andarosn, W. E. Tubbs, N. W. Magnuson, 
James M. Cavett, E. W. Ortolf, John 
E. Hess, Raymond A. Fisher, W. 
Sontum, J. P. Reynolds, Don F. 
Cassidy, Harold E. Fox, Frank L. 
Balthasar, John L. Bahr, James E. 
King, Logan T. Johnston, Rody Pat
terson, C. S. Weyandt, Arthur E. 
Anderson, Gerald Schoonover, Ever
ett H. Hughes, Arthur F. Leet, John 
M. Kelley, F. Faville, G. L. Tilbrook, 
C. F. Johnson, William Finkel, N. R. 
Walton, John McCullough, William E. 
Lucas, A. H. Hedgren, E. Smith, C. 
H. Wallace. Clarence Overend, W. B. 
Skinkle, J. C. Hobbs, and T. M. Mc
Donald.
Do you know any of this crowd? 
They attend the luncheons every
NEW YORK CLAN
HARRISBURG IS 
WELL INFORMED 
OF CARNEGIE
SATURDAY NIGHT AT 
SCHENLEY THEATRE
Clan Held Several Meetings 
During the Past Year and 
Efforts Were Made to Get 
Students to Come Here
POLICY WORKS FINE
The New York Carnegie Clan held, 
probably, the last meeting of the 
year on Thursday evening, April 24, 
at the National Vaudeville Artists 
Club on West Forty-sixth street. The 
management tendered a very hearty 
welcome -and served the Clan an un
commonly good dinner. Later in the 
evening the meeting developed into 
a theater party, for the majority of 
those present attended a performance 
a,t the Strand. Not content with this 
indulgence several of the crowd went 
to the Strand Roof, after the show, 
for further entertainment.
Several noon lunches have been 
held recently in. the downtown dis
trict for the purpose of getting ac
quainted with new members and dis
cussing current Carnegie topics. At 
\ the luncheons several have express
ed their intention of being in Pitts! burgh for Campus Week, making 
| certain that the New York Clan will j be well represented.
The Philadelphia Clan Banquet on 
May 10 is another function that will 
be well attended from the New York 
district. Philadelphia was well 
represented at the last New York an
nual banquet in February, and their 
visit will be repaid with interest.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The Philadelphia Carnegie" Cl*an 
will hold their Annual Dinner Dance 
at the Hotel Adelphia on May 10. Dr. 
Baker will be one of the honor 
guests. There will also be a large 
representation present from the Har 
risburg and New York Clans. Men 
and women in or near Philadelphia 
at the Hotel Adelphia on May 10. Dr. 
will be most cordially welcomed.
week, and it will pay you to come 
down Friday and get acquainted. 
Undoubtedly some oi your old class
mates will be there. Lets see yoh 
at the Hotel Henry at 12:15, every 
| Friday noon.
The Harrisburg Clan has, so far, 
had a most successful year, in fact, 
one of the most successful of its 
existence: All of the old and tried
activities were retained, and new 
lines of endeavor were entered into 
wherever possible, in order that our 
young, but fast-growing, Alma Mater 
might take her rightful place in the 
race to save the nation from the 
heathen uneducated. Some of the 
visible effects of the above-named 
activities may be observed in the 
fact that Harrisburg Tech sends more 
of the members of this year's 
graduating class to Carnegie than to 
any other college in the country. 
This represents quite an inroad on 
the heavy annual drawing of Harris
burg students by Penn State and 
Gettysburg, which schools have for 
years been the favorites. Also, due 
mostly to the efforts of Henry Y. 
Shaub, who is chairman of the Ath
letic Committee of the Harrisburg 
Clan, about the same may be sa^d 
of Lancaster, Pa., which is his resi
dence. Among the Lancaster dele
gation to Carnegie are several boys 
who bid fair to become valuable 
members of the football team.
Following out a policy adopted 
some time ago, of taking the Clan 
meetings to the members who dont 
come to the meetings, the Clan met 
in Lancaster, where they had a din
ner meeting at the Stevens House, 
last May. The following month the 
meeting was held in York, Pa., where 
a big dinner was served, and a good 
time was had by all. In September 
the meeting was held i,n Dauphin, 
Pa., at the summer home of Mrs. A. 
G. Green. At this meeting the of
ficers now holding positions were 
elected. In November a business 
meeting and a party were hold at 
the home of Mr. Ritchie Lawrie, Jr., 
in Harrisburg. In December the 
fourth Annual Christmas Dance was 
held at the Civic Club in Harrisburg, 
at which there were about forty 
couples. In February Dr. Baker 
made his annual visit and was en
tertained by the Clan at a dinner 
at the Penn-Harris Hotel in Harris
burg. At this dinner several High 
School students who were prospective 
students of Carnegie were the guests 
of the Clan. Last week a bridge 
party was held at tho home of Mr. 
and Mrs. C. J. Bushong. This was 
in connection with the bridge parties 
held at the college and elsewhere 
for the benefit of the M. M. C. 
Scholarship Fund. Three tables of 
bridge and one table of poker were 
going for the glory of Carnegie and 
tho aid of M. M. C. Carnogio got 
lots of glory* and cheers, but Im 
afraid that the Maggie Murphs 
didnt get much money, for the 
poker players reported small gains 
and the bridge players, ably assisted 
by tho poker players ate up most 
of the profits when the really fine 
luncheon was served.
LETTERS FROM ALUMNI
SHOW GREAT HOPES
(Continued From Page Six.) 
of xny vacation in May so that I 
shall not have to raisk anything. 
Best wishes for the best ever.
MARYLL GRIE WIGHT, 
M. M., 11.
Dear Tom:
Campus Week is an institution! 
Keep it up. It. is one of the best 
methods for retaining that elusive 
Alumni1 interest. Personally, I 
have been present at the celebration 
for two years and hope never ' to 
miss one.
C. H. ADAMSON, 
Industries 15.
Aurora, 111.
Dear .Tom: 
Wouldnt miss it for the world, 
Tommythere ought to be enough 
important business in Pittsburgh 
that week-end for every alumnus to 
be there!
CHAS. A. BLESCH, 
Engineering, 22.
Cleveland, Ohio.
Dear Tom: 
Unless something unexpected turns 
up, you can count on me two strong, 
and Ill try for the Charleroi crowd. 
I am anticipating the Mardi Gras.
H. G. NICHOL, JR., '21. 
Charleroi, Pa.
Dear Tom:
The very idea! I refuse to come 
near the place before seven oclock 
in the morning.
J. B. SPRAGUE. 
Science, '09.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Tom:
I would like to be with youi on 
the dates mentioned, but it will be 
impossible as it is right in tbe 
midst of our busiest season. I hope 
to be in Pittsburgh sometime dur
ing August. I sure wish you and 
the committee every success possi
ble for this Campus Week.
Sincerely,
PINKIE BATMAN, 
Industries, 0.
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Alumni Will Hold Full Sway 
As Tale of Chromatic 
Hanky Unfolds
For the benefit of the Alumni, who 
have not .already procured seats for 
The Biue Bandana, we publish the 
following information:
Mr. Osborne, of the Drama Depart
ment, has written the play for Cam
pus Week, and has surpassed him
self. This show will be presented 
for. the first time at Carnegie Tech, 
and next fall it will go to Broadway 
The play is of local interest, inas
much as the activities of The Blue 
Bandana gang around Pittsburgh arc 
well-known to citizens. The plot is 
full of mystery, comedy and melo
drama. The dual characterization is 
the thing that makes the show excit
ing. The audience will have to keep 
both eyes wide open to tell whether 
the person before them is the crook 
or the millionaire. They look so 
much alike that they have never 
been able to tell which was the 
other guy. Paul McGrath plays ono 
part as himself, and tho other part 
as his double. They say he is doubly 
sure of himself in this play.
There Is only one girl iS the whole 
show, so you may bo sure that she 
will present a marvelous interpreta
tion of her part, for the female 
talent iu the department runs to a 
high standard this year. This girl 
by the way, is a Freshman, Jean 
Blake.
Tickets may be procured through 
the Alumni Oillce, and tho checks 
should bo made, payable to G. L. Til
brook. The cost of each seat is ono 
dollar, and fifteen cents is to be 
added to the total bill to insure post
age and mailing. Prompt attontion 
will bo paid to letters received at 
the oillce, and the clerks will do all 
they can to comply with the wishes 
of the Alumni.
Cannot Be Silent.
A politician must often talk and 
act before he has thought and read. 
He may be lll-lniormud regarding a 
question, buti speak he must.Mac
aulay.
FASTIDIOUS GRADS 
WILL FIND MENU 
OF HIGH QUALITY
Well Known Caterer Takes 
Care of Bill-of-Fare; Song 
Book At Hand
If you had been in Paris Septem
ber 2S, 191Sthe night of the last and 
most spectacular air raidwould you 
have been in a cellar like most of the 
French population? I daresay not, 
because you are an American and 
theAmericans were all out in the 
Place La Concorde, or some place 
equally as unprotectedafraid they 
were missing something.
You will miss something if you are 
not on the Carnegie Campus, May 15, 
IU and 17. If you are within travel
ing distance you must be hero. As 
a curious American you cannot afford 
to miss it, and best of all ns a Car
negie alumnus you won't miss the 
Fifth Annual Campus Weektho 
greatest and best of all Campus 
Weeks held to datesomething doing 
every minute. Just look up the pro
gram of events, elsewhere in this is
sue, and be convincedbut havo you 
heard:
Saturday, May 17th, tho day ot 
days. The Alumni Luncheon, tho real 
dedication of tho new Carnegie Gym
nasiumWally SteffenYes, the Hon. 
orable Judge Wally Steffen, If you 
please, will be our honor guest. Noed 
we say more? The Sonlor class, trus
tees and honorary Federation mem
bers will be guests also. Tho com
mittee is preparing to tako care of ono 
thousand reservation. They havo ar
ranged the host menu in tho history 
of our luncheons. Because it is not 
bolng held at a hotel, dont think that 
it wont be good. It won't, it will bo 
betterthe best ever. Romombor tho 
number turned away last yoar be
cause they did not. malco reservations 
in advance? Woll, dont bo ono of 
tho unfortunates this tlmo. Th6 com
mittee must mako a guarantoo to tho 
caterer a wook boforo tho lunclioon, 
and this guarantoo will bo basod on
DO YOU RECALL? ]
Whon the first Campus Week was 
introduced at Carnegie? It hasnt 
been so long ago. Just four short 
years since May 13, 14 and 15 of 
1920?
Campus Week today is conducted 
on about the same plan today as 
then, except a few Improvements 
and changes.
Tho outstanding differences bolng 
such events as catching a greased 
pig, aeroplane tlights, Faculty-Senior 
baseball. The May-Day Dances and 
the crowning event of tho week, The 
Big Tech Circus?
The May-Day Dances were held on 
flagstaff hill and were cleverly exe
cuted by tho girls of the school.
The Carnegie Circus was held on 
the athletic field. This affair gave 
an opportunity for the gifted and 
the foolish to do their stuff.
tho number of reservations in by 
Saturday, May 10th. Help the com
mitteekeep their hair from turning 
gray.
Como early Saturday and witness 
all the events on tho program: The
great Inter-Fraternity Sweepstakes 
and tho Girls Soccer Race will be 
hold before the luncheon.
After lunch there will be a varsity 
tennis match, baseball game, track 
meet, and other sports. From throe 
until six tho new swimming pool will 
bo thrown opon for tho Alumni Stag 
Swim. After tho swim reunion class 
dinners, departmental dinners, and 
othor group dinners are being ar
ranged for the Commons, tho Marga
ret Morrison Cafetorla, tho Schouloy 
Hotel, and tho rostaurants near the 
campus.
Tho show, "The Blue Bandana, will 
be glvon at S p. m. in tho Sehonloy 
Theater. Tho entire house is rosorvod 
for alumni and their friends. After 
the show, which by tho way is bolng 
rolioarsod now In Now York, to opon 
thoro soon, you nro expected to roturn to tho Campus and finish tho 
ovonlng at tho final Campus Wook 
dance In the now gymnasium, and to 
witnoss tho grand flnalo of tho Fifth 
Campus Wooktho host alumni and 
student celebration Carnogio has ovor 
known.
Your gang Is sure to bo lioroBond 
your reservations In at onco and wo 
shall toll them you aro coming.
MANY DEPARTMENTS 
PLANNING DINNERS 
FOR FORMER STUDES
Doubtful Support of Scheme 
By Alumni Makes Plans 
A Bit Uncertain
The wish has oLteu been expressed 
by 3tudents and alumni that soino 
method could bo devised whereby it 
should bo possible that tho two 
parties could become better acquaint
ed. Alumni feel that it is rather 
risky to recofnmend a man whom 
lie has never met to a Job where a 
good deal deponds upon tho person
ality of the incumbent. Tho fact that 
tho student will havo graduated from 
Carnegie does not necessarily equip 
him for the particular work for which 
he is a candidate.
Recognizing this need a group of 
people havo been attempting to ar
range some period during Campus 
Week, whore it might be possible for 
the two parties to become a little bet
ter acquainted.
The result is that a largo numhor 
of Departments have tentative Plans 
for a little inexpensive dinner wliero. 
grads and students might gather with 
the faculty, and have an informal 
good time. It is very 'difficult to havo 
such an affair during Campus Week, 
owing to tho numerous othor tilings' 
which have precedence. Again, it is 
not all certain that Alumni will look 
favorable upon such a plan. Therefore, 
tho plans aro at most tentative.
Tho Carnogio Chemical Engineers 
aro making definite plans through 
their newly-formed organization to 
havo such an affair, and it is hoped 
that othor departments will be ready 
to unnounco similar events for Satur
day ovonlng to bo ondod in time for 
tho unfolding of tire mystery of tho 
achromatic handkerchief at tho Schonloy Then tor.
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins; Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programo, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow' tops, etc. Ihoy can repair 
your old fountain pen or sell you a 
better ono.Adv.-rrr-rr r:: - ;--=rzfc *
What Industry 
Owes to Engineering
A/ltr mfini/ titan o) itrvico in it alreel current yciicriilor, Ihj on'i/iiial upnlloolion in //id tried iniluilrji in JNIItin tlm hilfinr Thmjium Wurkt of Ilia Ourncolo Mteel Co., /leiirmer, Pa,ended ili iloi/M on (I motor in the pallcrn ihoji.
Where Westinghouse 
Blazed the Trail
Steel Industry 
Textile Manufacturing 
Paper Making 
Rubber industry 
Material Handling 
Motion Picture Industry 
Meat Packing 
Railroading 
Ship Building 
And Others
in Electrification of Industry
In 1891 the first electric motor was put to work in a 
steel mill. In 190,5 the first large rolling mill motor, and 
in 1906, the first reversing mill motor were also installed 
in steel mills. These motorsall Westinghouse Motors 
were history-makers in the steel industry.
Other industries too have profited by Westinghouse 
engineering pioneering.
-In the textile industry, individual motor drive 
became a reality in 1902, in the Sauguoit Silk Co., 
Philadelphia, Pa.
In the rubber industry, Westinghouse ideas as 
originally applied in 1900, are today the standard method 
of application in plants throughout the world.
In the handling of materials at the worlds great 
shipping centers, in the manufacturing of paper, in the 
molion picture industry, in coal mining, in meat packing, 
railroading, ship buildingin fact, in every branch of 
human activity can be found progress and profits 
traceable directly to the pioneering of Westinghouse 
Engineers.
Westinghouse f W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
'WESTINGHOUSE'ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTHURSDAY, MAY 8, 1924
DOTM924 P 
arRV,UX E6Br
Voup HUNCH ain't got **1 A CHANCE,
GUY HALFERTY
L l Ly" 
I0JIL
GUESS WEVE GOT MOST OF THESE NOW, EH, WHAT?
eS6SxVh6NV,V D A V
BUR.VINC 
OLD MAN 
,P. R_,
(not THE. VC.O KLU*.)
DR. MARKS,
Assistant Football Coa<?1i for 24.AS IT WAS IN 1922BY THE TARTAN INK SLINGERBE SURE YOU SEE THE CORONATION
>$***
THE RELAY TEAMARNOLD FINKHON. T. Sv BAKER
WHATS CAMPUS WEEK WITHOUT FRATERNITY SWEEPSTAKES?DON BLYTHH. K. KIRKPATRICKMILO MATTER
 ILL ?PSHI5 P0VER77 PSY  PICTURE 
( HOME TO the folks
OtClDES 
THST PS 
WU5T
IhCREA^e 
BILL'5 
ALLOWANCE
MISS BROWN,
DID IT EVER HAPPEN TO YOU?ALSO BASKET BALL CAPTAINSWEET MEMORIES OF BY-GONE DAYSBY OUR ALUMNI
