^"Ni S 4N> " 2afl M W m MWM   Sal  _ BmJ %0 d P II %mS y I W Ife# W V# I I
Volume 65 - Number 16Wednesday, February 16, 1966
NonROTCs Offered 
Enlistment In OCS
Recent Selective Service Announcements have 
spurred many non-ROTC Carnegie students to ask the 
Military Department if they could still earn a Com
mission as an Officer in the United States Army. 
The information given below is a
partial answer. It is particularly 
pertinent to sophomores, juniors, 
seniors, and graduate students who 
did not elect to participate in the 
four-year Army ROTC program.
Sophomores may apply to enter a 
two-year ROTC program. Parti
cipants must complete a six-week 
basic training camp this summer, 
enter the Advanced ROTC program 
for their junior and senior years; 
attend (normally between junior 
and senior years) another six - 
week summer camp, and obtain a 
bachelor's degree before being 
offered a commission.
Revised Graduate Policy
Graduate Students, possessing 
an undergraduate degree, and jun
iors and seniors, after obtaining a 
similar degree, may enlist to en
ter Office Candidate School (OCSX
This enlistment option is con
tradictory to an Army Regulation 
which previously prohibited such 
action by students who did not 
participate in the four-year ROTC 
program when available at their 
college. The Army will rescind this 
option after 1967.
Graduate Students should inves
tigate this option immediately, 
since a waiting list is building up 
which may preclude their accep
tance.
Under the Officer Candidate 
School Program a man must pos
sess a bachelor's degree and pass 
physical and mental entrance exa
minations. If acceptable, the man 
enlists in the Army, takes eight 
weeks Basic Combat Training, 
eight weeks Advanced Individual
Training, and then enters a twenty-three week Officer Candidate 
School.
Commission After OCS
Upon successfully completing 
OCS a candidate may be offered 
a commission in the Army. The 
applicant agrees to serve two years 
on active duty as an officer. This 
is in addition to the nine or 10 
months spent as an enlisted man 
in Basic, Advanced, and OCS train
ing.
The candidate for OCS must 
be prepared physically, mentally 
and psychologically for the exact
ing challenge of the OCS course. 
The attrition rate for college grad
uates is presently about 25%. 
Should a man fail to complete 
OCS, he reverts to a two-year 
enlistment program.
Sophomores interested in the 
two-year ROTC program should 
immediately visit the Military De
partment, Baker Hall room 242, to 
complete arrangements for at
tending the Basic Camp this sum
mer.
Graduate Students and seniors 
should obtain more information 
about the OCS from the Military 
Department during February. 
When induction procedures reach 
a certain stage it may be too late 
to volunteer for the OCS pro
gram.
Juniors do not have to make 
a final decision until 1967.
Any questions pertaining to 
these programs should be direct-^ 
ed to the Military Department, 
room 242 Baker Hall.
Seven Candidates Selected 
For Military Ball Queen
Seven girls, representing six fraternities and Mens 
Dormitory Council have been named as candidates for 
the 1966 Military Ball, to be held on Saturday, March 5.
The Ball is traditionally sponsored by the Carnegie 
Tech chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national Military 
honorary.
This year's candidates are: (See 
photographs page 5 ) Holly Brown,
Junior, business studies sponsor
ed by Alpha Tau Omega; Robin 
Newbold, freshman, psychology, 
sponsored by Beta Theta Pi; Mar
sha Mall, sophomore, home eco
nomics sponsored by Delta Upsilon, and Marlene Gaysek, junior,
English, sponsored by Phi Kappa Theta.
Kay Dryden, freshman, psycho
logy, sponsored by Men's Dormi
tory Council.
Carole Bilo, sophomore techni
cal writing, sponsored by Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon, and Bea Churchill, 
sophomore, business studies, 
sponsored by Sigma Nu.
A General Campus Election will 
be held on February 22 to select 
four Queen finalists.
The ROTC Regiment will vote 
for the queen and her court during 
the March 3, 11:30 a.m. class per
iod. TTie queen will be crowned at 
the Match Ball.
Tickets for the Ball maybe pur
chased for $3 from Scabbard and 
Blade members, or in the Military 
Department, Administration Hall 
room 242-Bw
mms*\r Ci*s AccoMplishMn*s; 
says 66W Can Do B**r
by Eric P. Feldmann
Yesterday, in his second speech to the Carnegie Tech student body, Dr. H. Guyford Stever, Carnegie Tech president, reviewed the past years accomplish
ments and discussed what lay ahead for Carnegie Tech.
The president cites as a first accomplishment the acquisition of a $5 million 
grant for the Computer Sciences. The grant which was made by the Richard K. 
Mellon Family, includes $2 million for a building specifically for the Computer 
Sciences and Mathematics, (see article page 3). Getting this grant should insure 
our staying in the forefront in this field
Ceilidh Holds 
Folk Concert
Doc Watson, mountain musician, 
folk singer, and humorist, will be 
featured in concert Saturday, Feb
ruary 26, at 8:30 p.m., in the Car
negie Lecture Hall.
Appearing with Watson, will be 
Fred Price and Clint Howard, both 
of whom hail from the Tennessee 
mountain country.
Others on the program, familiar 
to Carnegie Tech's Carnegie Ceil
idh Folk Music Society, are: 
Dwayne TTiorpe, a former Car
negie Tech faculty member, Fran 
Vandivier, a traditional singer 
from Kentucky who has appeared 
locally on WQED, and Peter Hoo
ver, a banjo player and folk mus
ic collector.
The concert sponsor, Carnegie 
Ceilidh folk music society is a stu
dent organization at Carnegie 
Tech, founded five years ago to 
encourage and stimulate non-pro
fessional music. The world Ceilidh 
is a Scot - Gaelic word meaning to 
gather together for the purpose 
of making music.
Tickets for the concert are 
available at the Carnegie Tech 
bookstore, Baker Hall.
Thistle Business
The Thistle is looking for 
a business manager.
Those interested should con
tact Tom Clements, editor, 682- 
9053 or David Aronovitz acting 
business manager 421-0959.
WRCT To Present Marathon 
From Skibo For 40 Hours
WRCT, Carnegie Techs campus radio station, will present a forty-hour marathon from the lobby of Ski
bo beginning Friday, February 18, at 4:30 p.m. and 
ending Sunday, February 20, at 8:30 a.m.
The program, to be announced 
by Larry Hoffman, freshman phy
sics, is part of a major effort by 
WRCT to promote student interest 
in the radio station.
The rock and roll/pop music 
show will include a variety of con
tests, both in the lobby and on the 
air. Dance contests, phone con
tests, scrambled song contests, 
and guess-the-voice contests will 
constitute a major part of the ma
rathon.
The marathon will be the big
gest recruiting program in the 
history of WRCT. Staff mem
bers feel that in order to main
tain the superior quality and repu
tation of the station, more stu
dent participation will be neces
sary.
Says Sanford M. Skaika, the
stations news director, WRCT 
is severely hampered in its ef
forts to improve itself by the ap
parent lack of student interest 
in the organization."
In order to run a college ra
dio station and make it success
ful, he continues, a fairly large 
general staff is necessary. Stu
dents willing to work at even 
minimal capacity would enable 
WRCT to continue its varied pro
gramming and high quality.*'
Workers are needed in all fa
cets of programming, from studio 
engineers to public relations ma
nagers. Present staff members 
hope to Insure more participa
tion by the impact of the mara
thon.
Canned Broadcast At DU
Tarton Photo by Fred Moize
Drama To Stage 
Richard Third
Shakespeare's Richard the 
Third", the next mainstage pro
duction, will run from March 1 
through March 12.
Lewis Peter will direct the pro
duction. Settings will be design
ed by Leonard Auerbach, lighting 
by Gary Casserella, and costumes 
by Douglas Marmee.
The cast will include: Michael 
Mund, Michael Tucker, Jeffrey 
Chandler, William Krinsky, Ed
gar Weinstock, William Dupled, 
John Noonan, June Galub, Arlene 
Kadish, Deborah Sussel, Herbert 
Braha, Leokum, and Christopher 
Curtis.
Tickets will be distributed on 
Tuesday, February 22 in Fine 
Arts room 108 from 4 to 5 p.m.
Tech Donates 225 
To War Wounded
Three hundred and ten volun
teers donated approximately 225 
pints of blood in Carnegie Techs 
Blood Drive for Vietnam.
The drive, sponsored by Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, receiv
ed publicity on local television 
and in the newspapers and was 
carried out with the assistance 
of the Central Blood Bank.
According to drive coordina
tor, Bob Cooper, senior, archi
tect; We were gratified by the 
turnout, the number of people will
ing to give blood . , . This pro
ves that blood drives can be worth
while things. Similar service pro
jects should be attempted in the 
future."
The plasma collected is now 
enroute to Vietnam via the De
fense Department. The Pitts
burgh Blood Bank is making use of 
the live blood.
Next came the visit of Pablo 
Casals and his being awarded an 
honorary degree. Summer, Dr. 
Stever stated, brought the start 
of the Carnegie Tech Playhouse 
ACT combination as well as the 
beginning of the construction of 
the new administration Hall.
Dr. Stever humorously observed 
that the trenches in front of the 
new AH are for the use of the 
Administration in the event of a 
student march but rather to house 
the electric conduits and the heat
ing ducts. Dr. Stever observed that 
he had great pleasure in announ
cing the new Transportation Re
search institute which will effect 
a number of the departments on 
campus.
Athletics
On the subject of Athletics, Dr. 
Stever had several things to say. 
First he noted that although our 
football season was not success
ful point-wise it did produce a co
lorful team and some exciting ball. 
He was pleased with the perfor
mance of the basketball team thus 
far.
He also made some remarks 
regarding the emphasis on team 
sports at Carnegie Tech. It was 
observed that statistics-wise Car
negie Tech has over the decades 
had a win record of 40% in bas
ketball and 45% in football, and 
while the basketball is on an in
crease (65% wins so far this year) 
football is much poorer.
Dr. Stever said that it s not 
the intention or the school to 
alter the basic policy pertaining 
to varsity athletics but rather 
to compete in varsity athletics ho
norably and win our fair share of 
the games without over-emphasizing athletics.
Dr. Stever took note of the sug
gestion that had been made to add 
Lacrosse as a varsity sport and 
explained that at present the sug
gestion is not feasable.
The president also commented 
that the possibility of joining a 
league is being investigated. He 
feels that the intramural athletic 
program at Carnegie Tech is ex
cellent and that he hopes we will 
continue get the benefits from it.
Also, lights should be installed 
in the intramural field soon as to 
benefit spring play.
Dr. Stever stated that he felt 
that the communications from stu
dents to faculty and Administration 
were better than those in the other 
direction and that both can be 
greatly improved. In the past year, 
he said, he 'has attempted to as
similate himself with the Carne
gie Tech Community in every way 
possible, among which were asiduous" reading of the Tartan, 
meeting and conversations with 
students from every area and or
ganization.
The students, however, dont al
ways make full use of the means 
of communication which they are 
provided with, the president felt. 
He recommended the reading of 
Continued on Page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 16, 1966
Continued from Page 1 
Administration communiques, and 
the Tartan, as well as listening to 
the campus radio station.
Also, he suggested, students 
might make greater use of faculty 
and administration relationships. 
Furthermore, Dr. Stever asked 
that he or another member of 
the Administration be allowed to 
run a column in the Tartan once a 
month or once every two months.
Also along the lines of commu
nication was the topic of student 
involvement in administrative de
cisions. Dr. Stever feels that stu
dents are not capable of having any 
great authority in this area since 
they are primarily deficient in two 
areas: experience and the time 
needed to give careful thought to 
all the decisions. However, he 
added that more and more the stu
dents are able to express their 
opinions through their representa
tives in Student congress and 
through those students who hold 
seats on various committees such 
as the Undergraduate Advisory 
Council headed by Dean Brown, 
the Athletic board, and Academic 
Affairs Committee.
Calendars 
Another topic that President Ste
ver dealt with was the question of 
revising the calendar. At present 
there are approximately five basic 
different calendars in use in col
leges around the country. None of 
these calendars is ideally suited 
to Carnegie Tech.
One factor which has conside
rable weight on which calendar is 
finally approved is our sources 
of money in Pittsburgh. This ex
ternal front,'* as Dr. Stever term
ed it has a desire to make the 
schedules of all the colleges and 
Universities in the Pittsburgh area 
so similar as to make the ex
change of students and faculty 
possible in certain course areas. 
Dr. Stever feels that no final de
cision will be made until the posi
tion of the outside front is clear
ly known.
Parenthetically, Dr. Stever ob
served that judging by the poor re
sponse to the Tartan's calendar 
poll there is not a sufficient in
terest taken by most of the stu
dents at Carnegie Tech in their 
own futures or the future of Car
negie Tech itself.
Development Program 
Dr. Stever noted that the fund 
drive that began in 1957 and is 
scheduled to end in 1967, is al
most over the top. The drives goal 
was $28 million, and through it 
Carnegie Tech has been able to 
construct Skibo, Hunt, Library, 
Scaife Hall, a new athletic field, 
and to undertake various modern
ization programs as well as to do 
longterm maintenance work. In 
addition several housing areas 
have been constructed.
The drama center which was 
originally scheduled to be part of 
the ten year development program 
has been dropped due to a num
ber of reasons. Prime among these 
according to Dr. Stever, is the in
ability to get complete faculty 
agreement with regard to size and 
cost. It is hoped the project 
can be redefined and built before 
another fund drive preferably with 
the project underwrittenbyaspot 
donor. t
Skibo
Dr. Stever dealt at some length 
with the topic of Skibo. He stated 
that he hoped by now everyone 
realized that Skibo was not ex
clusively a student center, although 
as he noted last year 45% of the 
events scheduled for Skibo were 
student in nature while 37% of the 
scheduled time went to faculty and 
administration groups and only 16% 
of the time went to outside groups 
who have some Carnegie Tech 
sponsorship or relationship.
He also noted that the unsched
uled areas such as the snack bar 
and cafeteria are almost totally 
used only by students.
Skibo is lacking in student re
creational facilities.
Future Construction 
With regard to future building
Accomplishments
on the Carnegie Tech Campus, 
Dr. Stever outlined what the needs 
are and what is being done about 
them.
Prime among the needs is a re
search Building which will re
lieve the strain on the present 
facilities. Also President Stever 
feels that another much needed 
item is an improved commons 
room for the mens dormitories.
He further noted that improve
ments must be made in the dor
mitories but that these will come 
with future dormitory construction 
since the necessary modifications 
to the present dormitories would 
not be financially or practically 
feasable. Dr. Stever said that cer
tain changes will be made in Skibo 
but that financially at the present 
time large scale alterations are 
not possible.
Means Of Evaluation
Dr. Stever stated that if it were 
at all possible he would like to 
use the individuals responsibility 
as a means of evaluation equal to 
his grades. Further, he observed 
that it is difficult to evaluate this, 
but that if it could be he would 
make it part of the decision pro
cess in putting a student on pro
bation or suspending him. Dr. Ste
ver said that this was what in 
part led him to establish the hon
ors tower and permit women over 
21 to reside off campus with their 
parents permission.
Faculty, Financing, Curriculum
Carnegie Tech is always trying 
to attract better faculty members, 
Dr. Stever said. It is trying to in
crease the quality of the student 
and the facilities available as well 
as the salaries that can be paid. 
Thif is one of the aims of the fund 
drive.
Regarding our financing the pre
sident said that we are one of the 
few institutions which publish a 
financial statement in the Wall 
Street Journal. Although this in 
itself is not that impressive the 
reason behind it is.
Carnegie Tech resources and 
contributors are so many and of 
such a diverse nature that this is 
the only fair way of giving an ac
counting. Further he stated, we are 
in the black.
Dr. Stever gave an accounting of 
where our funds come from and told 
his audience that a student at Car
negie Tech pays for only approxi
mately one-third of his education. 
However, he did say that what the 
exact cost of tuition and room and 
board will be in the future is still 
not altogether certain, but that in 
all eventuality it will rise.
In the area of curricula, Dr. 
Stever noted the changes that have 
been made in the departments and 
courses. Specifically they are: a 
department of Statistics has been 
created, as well as the Department 
of Computor Sciences; the De
partment of Industrial Management 
has been changed to the Depart
ment of Administration and Ma
nagement Science, offering 8 op
tions; and a double major program 
has been established leading to a 
bachelor of science in four areas; 
also he said, that the whole area of 
testing and grading is under ob
servation. The subject of graduate 
student teachers is undergoing 
evaluation as well.
Finally, Dr. Stever expressed 
the desire that Carnegie Tech 
students will take a greater inte
rest in their school, like many 
of the students he is fami^ar with. 
He knows that there is a certain 
amount of apathy but he is en
couraged by the students who are 
quite the opposite.
He concluded: I think we can do 
better.
$"<D
M G Mwsiv.AN ANA 101E DE GRUNWALD PRODUCTIF
EVERYTHING HAPPENS IN...
i Kiiisk< mici byEEriciP
Vol umem65o 5-eN-umbur1WdnW JOHN OHARAS
ARAGE  
TO LiUE t
PMMVISiON * "tu,X UNITED ARTISTS
A man... 
a girl... 
captives in 
their own 
worlds... 
finding 
escape 
in each 
other...
Lord Love A Duck** 
LAST 7 DAYS
WTRO GOimVfNMAYlk;:. .
!- Ulf PANDRO S BfRMAN GUV liktfN PRODUCTION
farcH ARG
SIDNEY a SHELLEY 
POITIER-'WINTERS
ELIZABETH HARTMAN
IN PANAVISION
STARTS WED., FEB. 23rd. 
FORUM AND ENCORE
byEr icP.cF e.lPdma n.P.C BciaPFFo Pc cssaFt aAamDcFa UU
Metro Goldwyn Mayer and Filmwiys 
Martin RansohofTs Production
The  Loved One
sUmifROBERT JONATHAN MORSE WINTERS ANJANETTE COMER
Dana Andrews Milton Berle James Coburn John Gielgud 
Tab Hunter - Margaret Leighton Liberate Roddy MeDowall 
iMorley Barbara Nichols Lionel Slander
STEIGER..**
* Screnipi b| Terry Southern ud Christopher Isherwood
Directed wTony Richardson <---------------------------------------------
I by John Calley ud Haskell Wexler
SiiaA[S&
I WALNUT STREET1 MU.2-1901 1
Deferment To Be Considered 
For Eligible Students
Under the newly insituted draft program, slated to 
begin next September, male students eligible for the 
draft will be subject to consideration for deferment.
Based on the Korean Draft Pro
gram, students will be consider
ed for deferment on the basis of 
class rank or results of the Se
lective Service Qualification Test.
Rank in class will measure stu
dents progress and performance, 
and the qualification test will mea
sure individual performance, for 
those students working in highly 
competitive groups.
Because of the new program, 
it is hoped that confusion resulting 
from the Selective Service will be
eliminated.
According to George K. Brown, 
Dean of Student Affairs: The ad
ministration will make every ef
fort to keep students informed 
regarding Selective Service de
velopments.
He suggests that all male stu
dents eligible for the draft be in
formed regarding Selective Ser
vice developments and maintain 
appropriate and necessary com
munication with their local draft 
board.
7/iOk
FRIDAY, MARCH 18
Craft Avenue at Hamlet Street  Pittsburgh, Pa
EDWARD AtEE'S
Mo's
iWtD op
ViRGiN/AIDOOLf?
directed by
JOHN ULMER
SCOTTIE MacGREGOR 
PHOEBE DORIN
DRAMA CRITICS' 
CIRCLE PRIZE PLAY
JAMES NOBLE 
ERIC TAVARES
NOW PLAYING through MARCH 13
Performances Tues. through Sat. at 8:30 
Sunday at 7:30
Special Student Rates $1.50 Sun. Thru Fri.  $2.00 Sat.
_____Call 621-4445 for reservation*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 16, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Court Has 
Openings For
Four Students
The Student Court has 
openings for three justices 
and an adjutant.
Anyone who has been a college 
student for three semesters and is 
not a Student Congress repre
sentative or Executive Council 
member is eligible for a court of
fice. The appointments are for 
one year.
Student Court is the judicial 
branch of Student Congress. The 
living units on campus, the dor
mitories, fraternities, and soroiities, have courts to handle their 
own problems.
Any case which is not the con
cern of these other groups can be 
referred to Student Court. The 
most common problems are theft 
or breakage of school property.
Cases are referred to the court 
by the Administration. The trial is 
organized by the chief justice and 
the adjutant. The adjutant's job 
is to present the case to the 
court. If appropriate, he can ar
range for witnesses besides the 
defendent. When the campus police 
are involved, they are interview
ed and a statement is prepared.
The trial is customarily infor
mal. The adjutant presents any 
statements. The defendent and wit
nesses describe the events. The 
justices can question the witnes
ses until they understand the si
tuation completely. This proceduce has often been altered to fit 
special cases.
When the hearing is finished, 
the justices meet alone to make 
the decision.
Carnegie Tech is not run by 
a set of disciplinary regulations, 
therefore the justices only have a 
few broad principles and their per
sonal values to guide them in mak
ing decisions.
Executive Council makes all ap
pointments to Student Court. Those 
interested in the positions should 
submit a letter of application to 
the council in care of Skibo room 
103.
The letter should include qua
lifications for a court office and 
reasons for desiring an appoint
ment.
American 
Field Service
The American Field service is 
seeking chaperones for its threeweek all-expense paid July tour 
of the United States.
Applicants must be at least 21 
years of age or have completed 
their junior year this June.
Those interested should contact 
Marcia Israel, MG 7C6 or 682- 
8893.
ResearchBldg. 
Slated For 
Tech Campus
Carnegie Tech is in the 
process of planning a 
$7-1/2 million mathema
tics and research building 
for the Baker-MachineryDoherty Hall quadrangle.
According to current plans, it 
will be linked to the west side of 
Doherty Hall extending seven sto
ries over the side of the hill ad
jacent to Machinery Hall.
Its 200,000 square feet of floor 
space will include offices for grad
uate students and faculty, appro
ximately 35 laboratories for indi
vidual research, classrooms and 
two large lecture halls. It will 
also house a new computer and all 
but one of those presently operat
ing in Scaife Hall.
Deeter, Richey, Sippel, Archi
tects are designing the structure. 
Responsible for the design of the 
University of Pittsburghs Space 
Coordination Building, they are, 
according to Schatz, vice presi
dent for academic affairs, a firm 
willing to spend time in research
ing their designs.
Finances for the building will 
come from last springs Mellon 
Grant for Computer Sciences ($2 
million), Carnegie Techs develop
ment program ($2-1/2 million^ 
Carnegie Techs development pro
gram ($2-1/2 million), and govern
ment sources ($3 million). Ifte 
National Science Foundation and 
the Office of Higher Education 
have not yet approved the schools 
request for funds but the Admi
nistration seems confident that 
they will. Neither has all of the 
development money been accumu
lated.
According to Dr. Schatz, the 
mathematics and research build
ing will supply space absolutely 
necessary for Carnegie Techs 
long-range plans.
About three years ago it was 
estimated that by 1972 approxi
mately 1200 graduate students 
would attend Carnegie Tech. Pre
sently there are just under 1000 
enrolled. In addition, the com
puter science effort has expand
ed through the support of the Ad
vanced Research Projects Agen
cy of the Department of Defense 
at the rate of $1 million a year. 
Room for expansion is needed 
in both of these areas, and in ma
thematics as well.
Valentine Cookies
The YWC A Valentine Cookie Sale 
will be held on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 16 from noon to 1 a.m.
Homemade cookies will be sold, 
ten for a quarter, in Baker Hall, 
Margaret Morrison, and the Skibo 
snack bar. Proceeds will go the 
YWCA Leadership and Conference 
Fund.
<JUNIORS, SENIORS and
SUNOC0> GRADUATE STUDENTSOn-Campus Interviews
MARCH 10th
Both Permanent and Summer Positions Are Available In Philadelphia, 
Penna., Dallas, Texas, and Toledo, Ohio For Men In These Fields:
 ACCOUNTING
 BUSINESS ADMIN.
 IND. MGMT./ADMIN.
 ECONOMICS
 SYSTEMS ANALYSIS
 FINANCE
 CHEM. ENGRG.
 MECH. ENGRG.
 ELEC. ENGRG.
 CHEMISTRY
 OPERATIONS RES.
 MATHEMATICS
Visit your Placement Office now to Schedule an Appointment. If per
sonal interview is inconvenient, write to College Relations Division 
SUN OIL COMPANY
1608 Walnut Street Philadelphia 3, Penna.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Carol Willard Is 
Tech Roto Girl
Carol Willard, freshman, dra
ma, is the winner of the annual 
Pittsburgh Press Roto Magazine 
Campus Cover Girl contest.
Miss Willards photograph will 
appear with those of other schools 
candidates in Roto Magazine, the 
Pittsburgh Press Sunday supple
ment magazine, on March 13.
Judges will meet the following 
week to select five finalists who 
will be the guests of the Pitts
burgh Press at a dinner and show 
on Friday, March 25 and luncheon 
on Saturday.
Miss Willard hopes to graduate 
from Carnegie Techs drama de
partment, but has not decided upon 
what phase of acting she will pur
sue. Carol has done summer stock 
at the Civic Arena in Pittsburgh 
and has worked for six years in 
television series.
Operation Match
Operation Match will be run 
three times this spring on the Car
negie Tech campus.
Distribution for the first run, 
deadline March 7, will begin on 
Friday, February 18 in Baker Hall. 
Questionnaires will also be avail
able at Skibo information desk and 
Morewood desk.
Further information may be ob
tained from Ed Dawson, 682-0985, 
or Jack Lindbery, 521-7284.
TYPEWRITER
Soles - Rentals - Repairs
CAMERA EXCHANGE, INC.
3711 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, P. 15213
<83-2181
Oakland's Only CaMra s*or
RESIDENCE OF DISTINCTION 
IN THE CULTURAL HEART 
OF PITTSBURGH
Furnished or unfurnished efficiency and one bed
room apartments, with equipped kitchens, Util
ities included. Limited number available.
Fairfax Hotel
621-4030
Make your appearance in
FARAH
AND LET THE CHICKS
FALL WHERE THEY MAY !
SLACKS, JEANS and 
WALK SHORTS with
FaraPress
II
The sharp styling of Farah slacks 
puts the frosting on anything 
you might cook up!
FARAH MANUFACTURING CO., INC.  EL PASO, TEXAS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, FEBRUARY 16, 1966
EditorialLessons Sharply Administered
The series of disturbances which occurred a week 
ago last Saturday have caused students, faculty mem
bers, and administrators alike to raise serious, sear
ching questions regarding the policies associated with 
the use of Skibo by outside groups, and those involved 
with the role of the campus Security Police in handling 
emergency situations. The long term implications of 
these matters, which the recent incident raised swiftly 
into the light of general consideration, moved President 
Stever to make known to the students their signifi
cance from the administrations standpoint by pro
viding the Tartan with information to aid in the for-, 
mulation of an editorial statement in a discussion with 
its editor.
The presidents first assertion, which he reiterated 
in his address to the students yesterday, was that Skibo 
is not entirely a student center; it was not designed 
to be; rather it is a campus center, and as such it is 
to be used also by faculty, administrators, and certain 
outside groups. To the truth of this statement, few students indeed have been inclined to admit. However, 
much as the students do require more extensive 
student oriented facilities, the Tartan be lives that the 
truth of Dr. Stevers assertion regarding Skibo as 
it now exists cannot be denied, and that students must 
bring their attitudes into conformity with it to analyze 
the situation objectively.
Dr. Stever did not hesitate to admit, moreover, that 
Skibo is lacking in many respects, notably in the case of 
student recreational facilities; however, he claimed, 
that although much is being done to permit Skibo 
to perform better its present functions, little can be 
accomplished toward significantly expanding its facilities and capabilities. An addition to Skibo or a new 
building entirely is required to achieve these ends; and 
such a project must be, of necessity, along term one.
Given, then, that the present student body must live 
with Skibo as it now exists and must share the building 
with other groups, the central issue is the nature of 
the allocation of its facilities between their various 
claimants. In a study on the use of Skibo, which was 
conducted last year by Dr. Stever, and which he 
mentioned in his address yesterday, it was found 
that 45% to 50% of the scheduled activities in Skibo 
were devoted to the students, approximately 37% 
to the administration and faculty, and approximately 
16% or about one sixth to groups outside Carnegie 
Tech.
The administration, according to Dr. Stever, had 
been examining the policies and administrative pro
cedures governing the allocation of that one sixth to 
outside groups on a long term basis, but the outbreak 
impelled the acceleration of that examination on an 
emergency basis. Perusal of the list of outside groups 
using Skibo reveals that these have been non-profit 
organizations such as professional societies involved 
in the interests of Carnegie Tech. In light of this fact, 
many have questioned why a group with so few apparent ties to both the high school where it originated 
and to Carnegie Tech was permitted to avail itself of 
Skibo facilties.
According to Dr. Stever, this group met, at least on 
paper, all the requirements which have been establish
ed as criteria for rationing the use of Skibo to 
outsiders. In fact, this same group held a dance in 
Skibo last October and the duration of their stay 
here at that time proved uneventful. Before their dance 
last week, however, the group sold tickets to the 
affair, without the knowledge of the Carnegie Tech
administration, ostensibly in anticipation of making a 
profit. They employed no discrimination and exercised 
poor judgment in sales and advertising. Their dance, 
therefore, was grossly over-subscribed by individuals 
with no connection nor a genuine interest either in 
the sponsoring group or in Carnegie Tech.
Through this regrettable incident, the Carnegie 
Tech administration has become the recipient of a 
sharply dealt lesson. The administration has learned 
that it must examine carefully and re-evaluate the policies and administrative practices now employed 
in assigning Skibo facilities to outside groups. Spe
cifically, it must question whether the interests of 
Carnegie Tech truly lie in permitting specific outside 
organizations to use Skibo, and whether the group 
actually has a valid claim to make use of the building, 
not only on paper, but, more importantly, in fact.
Furthermore, though students must share Skibo, 
it is primarily student oriented, and events conducted 
in Skibo by outside groups must be scheduled such 
that they do not prevent, interfere with, or cause the 
postponement of student activities. Many Carnegie 
Tech students cite the meeting of the Student U.N. last spring, when a TGIF had to be cancelled, and 
Tech students were literally driven out of Skibo 
by the sheer weight of numbers of the high-school 
students who had occupied the building. Realizing 
that outside organizations generally plan their events 
farther in advance than do student groups, those times 
such as weekends, when student demand for Skibo 
facilities is maximal, should largely be denied to 
outsiders.
With respect to the security aspect of the incident, 
there are those who maintain that, had the Carnegie 
Tech Security Police acted boldly on their own initiative 
and in a more authoritative manner at the inception of 
the trouble, the subsequent incidents could have been 
avoided. Last week, in fact, the Tartan criticized 
the Security Police for their failure to deal boldly 
and decisively with this problem.
Dr. Stever, however, argued an effective case in 
their favor. He explained that the role of the Security 
Police is to protect the students and property of 
Carnegie Tech, but not to employ rough handling. The 
president asserted, that, had the security police, faced 
by 250 angry teenagers, gotten tough, it is quite 
probable that the crowd would have gelled into an un
controllable mob. Thus, the Security Police, in acting 
as they did, helped prevent the situation from worse
ning.
Measured relative to the administrations criteria, 
then, the Security Police acted correctly. Open to ques
tion, however, is the propriety of those criterial. 
It would seem that a display of authority, even the 
threat of force, though not its use, employed in the 
early stages of such a situation, could prevent the 
further development of more serious incidents and end 
the emergency at its start. Furthermore, given that the 
Security Police had the authority to act boldly, there 
would be engendered among the students more respect 
for the Security Police, something which they have not 
had in the past, nor do they now enjoy. The Tartan 
advocates that the administration undertake a careful 
examination of the role and authority of the Security 
Police in time of emergency.
It is unfortunate that the lessons learned and ex
periences gained from this incident occurred under 
such distressing circumstances, for, in the words 
of Dr. Stever, so much good goes on in Skibo.
Awareness Warmongers
by Allen Michel
Last week we were unfortunate enough to witness one of the biggest 
debacles in American politics since the beginning of the Johnson admin
istration. The administration at the Honolulu Conference* succumbed 
to the whims of two warmongering South Vietnamese heads of state - 
Thieu and Ky. It seems like a country which is both militarily and 
economically weak and produces new governments as rapidly as rabbits 
produce babies has inflicted its unenlightened* ideas upon President 
Johnson.
At the end of the conference Premier Ky stated; For us to go in 
a weakened condition to the peace table with the Communists would be 
courting suicide and would endanger the survival of the people of South 
Vietnam and of all Southeast Asia.*
He continued, It would negate the meaning of the sacrifices made 
by the valiant combatants of the Free World who have given their lives 
on our soil...we must strengthen our country so that we will not be a 
second-class participant at the peace conference table.*
This statement is essentially contradictory to the position asserted! 
by the United States before the Honolulu Conference.*
Before this our prime goal was peace with free elections. Yet now it 
seems we agree with Kys viws and are struggling to bring a first 
class* power to the peace table. We are now battling the war on a
social front, attempting to reduce hunger, disease, and ignorance  
not for the purpose of bringing better living standards to the war-torn 
South Vietnam, but for making the country a first class* participant.
Instead of attempting to preserve life by calling for peace we are 
preserving status by prolonging the war. We have lost sight of our 
previous views in attempting to bring a militarily and economically 
strong South Vietnam to the conference table.
The warmongering Ky stated in Honolulu that he would not accept 
the 1954 Geneva Agreement, would not negotiate with Viet Cong or the 
National Liberation Front and would press for the bombing of Haiphong. 
Although we are fighting on the same side our means and ends are dif
ferent from the South Vietnamese.
To prevent a war which Ky indicates probably will last many years 
we must assert our pre-Honolulu point of view and not succumb to his 
absurd desire of wanting to make South Vietnam a first class power* 
before negotiating for peace. Since the conference, however, President 
Johnsons actions have indicated that we are accepting Kys notion of 
bringing an economically and militarily strong South Vietnam to the 
peace table.
However, we may still be thankful that it was Johnson and not 
Goldwater who represented our country in Honolulu.
Radrs Wri*
Registration Results In 
Overcrowded Courses
Editor, The Tartan:
A major transformation of Car
negie Techs registration program 
must be instituted by September 
1966. Too many students were 
needlessly upset and burdened by 
the inadequate program now in ef
fect.
Students found that after sign
ing up for a course, there was no 
room for them; many were shift
ed from one section to another 
without the slightest regard for 
their preference of hours or pro
fessors; many were wrongly advi
sed as to required courses or elec
tives; and Margaret Morrison stu
dents were unable to stay in hu
manities courses because engi
neering and science juniors and 
seniors had to fulfill their elec
tive requirements.
We feel that definite steps must 
be taken to seek out the number of 
students desiring to take a course 
and insure placement in this cour
se. We also feel that students 
should have every right to select 
the hours that would best attribute 
to their academic success and in 
addition the right to choose desired 
professors.
The needs of our students, with 
regard to scheduling and program
ming, have been slighted for too 
long a time. Realistically, we are 
paying for the best education possi
ble, and, therefore, we certainly 
should be getting it.
Graduate Study 
Doubles Since55
Graduate study at Carnegie 
Tech, more than doubled since 
1955, has received substantial 
support from the U.S. Office of 
Education in the form of 96 Na
tional Defense Education Act Fel
lowships.
The fellowships are given for a 
three-year period to students who 
plan to continue study for a docto
ral degree.
Students awarded fellowships 
will study in one of fourteen de
partments in the College of En
gineering and Science, and the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration.
Three of Carnegie Tech's re
cently established interdiscipli
nary departments (applied ma
terials science, applied nuclear 
science, and earth and astrono
mical sciences) will receive sup
port for the first time.
Other departments involved are: 
applied space science, chemical 
engineering, chemistry, civil en
gineering, electrical engineering, 
industrial administration, ma
thematics, mechanical engineer
ing, metallurgy and materials sci
ences, physics.
Under the terms of the fellow
ships, each student receives a sti
pend for each year of study and a 
university grant of $2500 per 
student, per year, is given to the 
supporting institution. Carnegie 
Tech will receive about $75,000 
from the Office of Education for 
support of these students, and the 
participating graduate students 
will receive about the same amount 
in stipends over the period of the 
awards.
Last year, Carnegie Tech rank
ed fourth among private universi
ties in the United States in the 
number of engineering doctorate 
degrees awarded. The school 
granted the largest number of 
such degrees among all institu
tions, whether private or publicly 
supported, in Pennsylvania.
Through June, 1965, Carnegie 
Tech had awarded a total of 957 
doctorates.
C-Boolc Corrections
Due By
Thursday, Feb. 24
Box 282 - Via Campus Mall

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 16, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
What's Doing 
On Campus
by Tina Entail
Carol Bilo
Overnight Travel
Any student organization trav
eling overnight must register its 
roster, destination and itinerary 
in the Coordinator of Student Ac
tivities Office, Skibo room 103, 
before it leaves campus.
Today
11:15 to 1:45 p.m. YWCA Valen
tine Cookie Sale, Baker Hall, 
MMCC, and Snack Bar.
11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Mass, 
Skibo room 39.
1 p.m. to 4 p.m. CIT Women, 
Skibo room 200.
5 p.m. Senior Banquet. Skibo Ball
room and Lobby.
7 p.m. Student Union Committee, 
Skibo room 54.
p.m. Tech Dames, Skibo room 
55.
p.m. Oratory, Skibo room 54. 
Basketball, W & J, away. Swim8
8
earnegie techIIIIIIITARTAIMI
Evan M. Melhado 
Editor-in-Chief
Richard G. Sextro Sue Attmson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor..........................................................._. . Canay Etkin
Sports Editor...........................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor..................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor.................................................. John Mera
Assistant News Editor.................................................. Liz Seley
National Advertising Manager............................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager.....................Edward A. Ketterer
Secretarial Editor......................................................Judy Birken
Circulation Manager.............................  ric p Feldmann
Printing Production Managers: David C. Klein, Harvey A. Shapiro
Nows Staffs Judy Carlson, Jeff^Evons, Larry Fantauzzi, Larry Friedman, 
Ellon Lovino Konnoth Lutz, Torn Mooro, Chipper Monk, 
Peggy Smelon. Rich Steffens, Howard Weiss, Sue Lohnmeyor.
Layout Staff: Christopher Grondahl, Laura Soldier, Marcy Stern Photography Staff: George Hunter, David Leavitt, Sue Lohnmeyor Gordon Morris, Mike Parol, Carey Winters.
Business Staff: Barb Brown, Barrie Uinkins, Carol Teaman 
Circulation Staff: Debbie Andruss, Camille Bazgon, Haney Barron Valerio Watton *
Printer's Liason: J. E. Miller1
Typists: Janet Adler, Diane Cushing, Emily Ferber, Leslie Franco, Adale Friedrich, Suzanno Kunl, Janet RiddU, Ruth Thompson, ckullil vOm Seal, Sue Wells.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by Hationai Advertising Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except 
during holidays and examination periods by the students 
of Ccmegie Institute of Technoloav.
ming, Slippery Rock, away.
8:30 p.m. Lawrence McCann, pia
no concert. Carnegie Lecture 
Hall.
Thursday
11:30 am. and 12:30 p.m. Mass, 
Skibo room 39.
4:30, 7, 9:30 p.m. Film Arts, Ci
tizen Kane, Porter Hall 100.
4:30 p.m. Pipe Corps, Skibo room 200.
5:30 p.m. Track, field house (Don
ne r), all interested urged to 
attend.
5:45 p.m. KKG. Skibo room 39.
7 p.m. APhiO. Skibo room 40.
8 p.m. Pa. Society of Professional 
Engineers. Skibo room 45.
8 to 11 p.m. Viet Wives Club. 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
Friday
8:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. History. 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
11:30 a.m. English Discussion
Group. Skibo Highlander Room.
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass. Skibo 
room 39.
4:30 p.m. Radio Show. Skibo lobby.
6:30 p.m. Tech Christian Fellow
ship, Skibo room 39.
7 p.m. Rifle, Tech vs. Clarion, 
Home*7:30 and 10 p.m. Y - Cine Ser
ies Sunset Boulevard and 
Time Out of War*. Porter Hall 
100, Y - members: 25$, non
members: 50$.
9 p.m. Ceilidh, Skibo, Wherrett 
Room.
Saturday
8:30 to 12 noon Horn Club, Skibo 
room 40.
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Folk Institute 
Skibo, Wherrett Room.
11:30 a.m. Campus Conference 
on Religion. Skibo Highlander 
and Wherrett Room. Radio Show, 
Skibo lobby, all day. Swimming, 
Tech vs. TTilel.
Sunday
9 a.m. and noon Mass, Skibo Wher
rett Room.
1 to 3 p.m. Scotch n Soda Board. 
Sldbo room 54.
7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Chess Club, 
Skibo room 40.Continued on Page 7
 FromThe Middle Of The Bus
Discrimination 
Cited Within 
Tech Frats
During rush, one important 
question that is often asked by 
fraternity men is: *To what type 
of men will we extend an invitation 
to pledge this year?*
After meeting certain minimum 
standards, a 2.00 grade point av
erage, etc., the fraternity mem
bers decide to pledge or not to
I pledge a man on the basis of his 
personality and character. Implic
it in this criteria in ten of the 
twelve houses at Carnegie Tech is 
that the man is white. These dis
criminatory practices are illegal 
and our Administration is neglect
ing their responsibility in this 
area.
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964 states that *No person in 
the United States shall, on the 
ground of race, color or national 
origin be denied the benefits of, 
or be subjected to discrimination 
under any program or activity re
ceiving Federal assistance.* We 
can now ask ourselves three ques
tions:
1. Does Carnegie Tech receive 
Federal Financial Assistance?Fi
nancially, the school received $4.5
) to 5 million dollars in the fiscal 
years 64-65.
2. Is the fraternity system at 
Carnegie a school activity? many 
C arnegie fraternity members 
maintain that this law does not 
pertain to social fraternities. 
These members feel that these pri
vate social groups cannot be con
sidered university activities. The 
United States Department of
I Health, Education and Welfare 
feels that if the university officials 
recognizes the fraternity in any 
way particulary if it is on school 
owned property (which is the case 
with Carnegie Tech fraternities) 
or subject to the Institutions regu
lations, then the fraternities must 
be considered as a University ac
tivity and not a private social 
club. Where the fraternities are
> instruments of the entire institu
tion due to their ties and relation
ships with the University, then dis
crimination cannot be considered 
a private affair.
Architect Wins 
Design Award
Troy E. West, a Carnegie Tech 
graduate and an instructor in the 
Department of Architecture, re
ceived an award in the 13th annual 
design awards competition spon
sored by Progressive Architec
ture magazine.
Wests concept of an apartment, 
motel, exhibit area and parking 
complex for the lower Hill Dis? trict area, was one of the designs 
selected for recognition by a jury. 
A description of the project and 
a critique by the jury appears in 
the current issue of the maga
zine, along with photographs of 
models and diagrams.
His design calls for the con
struction of an exhibition hall 
northeast of the present Civic Au
ditorium, a 300-unit motel and
H restaurant building to the north 
and a parking space for 1,600 
cars to the south of the auditor
ium. One outstanding feature of 
the design is a 1,500 unit housing 
area with its own shops, offices, 
nursery and laundry facilities at 
the penthouse level.
After graduating from Carne
gie Tech in 1958, West traveled 
in Europe on a John Stewardson
P Memorial Scholarship. He work
ed for several architecture firms 
before Joining the Carnegie Tech 
faculty In 1963.
by Michael Malakoff
Students admitted to such uni
versity and excluded from partic
ipation in any program or activity 
because of their color are not be
ing afforded full fledged partic
ipation as guaranteed them by the 
school which is accepting Fed
eral funds.
3. Does the fraternity system 
at Carnegie Tech systematically 
exclude people from their mem
bership on the basis of color?
One year ago, we could have 
emphatically answered yes* to 
this question when fraternity chap
ters at Carnegie had specific 
clauses restricting membership 
to Caucasians. Unfortunately, re
gardless of the law, we can answer 
yes* to this question today. Today 
the fraternities have merely 
switched to constitutional euphem
isms or have reached unwritten 
gentlemens agreements that re
quire perspective members to be 
socially acceptable to all other 
members.
Most of the fraternities at Car
negie Tech use the black ball sys
tem of extending bids. In this sys
tem the fraternity delegates power 
to an individual or group of fra
ternity men to decide on whether 
a prospective rushee is qualified 
or not to become a brother. The 
fraternity, the source of power, is 
responsible for the actions of its 
members. When these members 
refuse a man membership on the 
basis of color they are in effect 
determining the fraternitys mem
bership, and in these cases estab
lish a discriminatory policy based 
on ones color. Under this system 
men have been refused member
ship because of their color with
in the last three weeks at Car
negie Tech.
Francis Kepple, U. S. Commis
sioner of Education said, refer
ring to Title VI, "This language 
makes it apparent that an institu
tion which maintains a fraternity 
system as a part of its activity 
and over-all program is respon
sible under the Civil Rights Act 
for assuring that discrimination is 
not practiced by the fraternities 
in the system.*
Carnegie Tech has not assumed 
this responsibility, although re
cently Carnegie wrote a letter to 
the Department of Health, Educa
tion and Welfare in compliance with 
this law. Carnegie Tech does not 
meet the laws minimum require
ments and, therefore, technically 
should not receive Federal finan
cial assistance.
Social fraternities exist at col
leges to aid the colleges to better 
educate their members. When 
fraternities perpetuate racial 
prejudice, which is done at Car
negie Tech, they erode their rea
son for existence. Our school, ad
ministration and students, should 
act to remedy this situation im
mediately.
Speigel Exhibits 
His Photographs
Color and B1 a c k-and-white 
photographs by Ben Speigel will 
be on exhibit in the Porter Gar
nett Graphic Arts Gallery from 
February 7 to February 20.
Speigel is a free-lance pho
tographer who has contributed reg
ularly to national publications.
The Graphic Arts Gallery on the 
third floor of Baker Hall will be 
open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, and from
9 a.m. to noon Saturday.
Both color and Black - andwhlte photographs will be ex
hibited.
Military Ball Canditates
Holly Brown Marsha Mall Robin Hewbold
Marlene GaysekBaa Churchill

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, FEBRUARY 16, 1966
Nature of the University
Analysis Of Tech Reveals
Departmental Personalities
An analysis of the Carnesrie Tech environment, and of some of its effects on those who live in it, called, Cultural Diversity and Character Change at Carne
gie Tech, has recently been released.The bulk of the data on which the report is based were obtained through a se
quence of surveys in the Fall of 1963. Just before the first day of classes, a 
two-hour questionnaire was administered to entering freshmen. The question
naire was designed to tap social backgrounds, educational, career, and family 
intentions, and intellectual and interpersonal behavior. Selected items from the 
questionnaire were asked again of the same population in class during Octo
ber, and of sophomores, juniors, and seniors in December. Other data came from 
formal and informal observation and interviews.
One portion of each of the ques
tionnaires yielded a set of attitude 
scales; another generated a set 
of scales describing aspects of the 
students social environment. Je
rome Kirk, author of the study, 
constructed an environmental 
'map of Carnegie Tech (see fig
ure) from the environment 
scales, which measure variables 
he has called humanism, instru
mentalism, warmth, and orga
nization (of the faculties, as seen 
by their students), and mannerli
ness, competitiveness, and re
flectiveness (of students, as seen 
by their friends).
Five Clusters
The rings encircling groups of 
departments indicate overall si
milarities between the average 
scores of students in those de
partments on the seven scales. 
The map contains five basic clus
ters of departments.
In the upper left-hand corner is 
a large cluster containing most of 
the departments in the College of 
Engineering and Science. This 
cluster is characterized by rela
tively high average scores on 
faculty instrumentalism and stu
dent competitiveness, and rela
tively low average scores on fa
culty warmth and humanism, and 
on student reflectiveness.
Directly below this technical 
cluster in what Kirk refers to as 
the female* cluster, with high ave
rage scores on instrumentalism, 
competitiveness, reflectiveness, 
and mannerliness. In the right 
center of the figure is a second
ary technical cluster, with a re
latively instrumental faculty and 
relatively unreflective students.
At the bottom are two artis
tic groups of departments, with 
relatively high average scores on 
reflectiveness, warmth, and hu
manism, and relatively low scor
es on competitiveness.
Changes In Attitude
Since students in different de
partments at Carnegie Tech de
scribe their environments in sig
nificantly different ways, one of 
Professor Kirks main concerns 
was to determine whether these 
environments have different con
sequences for the styles and atti
tudes of the students who live in 
them. In order to do this, he as
sessed the variation among de
partments in the personal and atti
tude changes undergone by students 
in them.
The data indicate that students 
in virtually all departments be
come less conventional as they pur
sue their education at Carnegie 
Tech. Women, who have a higher 
level of conventionality when they 
enter college than do men, seem to 
become unconventional at a higher 
rate.
To an even greater degree, so
cial maturity increases across the 
board. On the average, upperclass
men score 4.3 points higher on this 
scale than do freshmen, but there 
is somewhat less regularity among 
departments in their effect on this 
trait. The highest-scoring group of 
entering freshmen is the drama 
students, who average 10.6, but 
upperclass dramates average only
11.7. P & 0s average 6.7 initial
ly, and 12.1 as upperclassmen.
EEs begin, on the average, at 
-2.6, average 0 as upperclassmei.
BaF.cm ThFMdaP
TONIGHT
5:45 SKIBO BALLROOM
s*** \
fl'll #1 tl f)I IMM  ** MJ
.TRIED THE SNACK BARS CARRY OUT SERVICE YET?
The average social maturity of en
tering IMs is -6.5, while the ave
rage for IM upperclassmen is 
3.5. Variation among depart
ments is even greater on the trait 
Kirk calls theoretical orienta
tion, and he expresses some con
cern about the fact that scores 
on this scale do not increase in 
E & S departments.
No Homogeniety
Differences among these per
sonal and style characteristics in 
freshmen entering the various de
partments correspond to differen
ces in their previous experience 
and social background. As upper
classmen, students in the various 
departments have shared large 
parts of the experience of living 
and working at Carnegie Tech, and 
Professor Kirk expected to find the 
effect of the college as a whole 
produces a relatively homogeneous 
group of upperclassmen. He con
cedes that he was quite wrong; that 
his data indicate that differences 
in enrivonment among depart
ments seem on the whole to rein
force differences among enter
ing students.
Kirk considers the heterogeneity 
of the Carnegie Tech student body 
an educational resource, but he 
points out that if it were being 
used effectively it would decrease 
somewhat from the freshmen to the 
senior year, as students were in
fluenced by people different from 
themselves and from their highschool friends. He concludes that 
and cultural and environmental dif
ferences among colleges and de
partments at Carnegie Tech en
courage students to a kind of pa
rochialism, and prevent interacCLUSTERING OF 
DEPARTMENT CULTURES
tion among those accustomed to 
different types of social and in
tellectual endeavor.
But he also points to the varia
tion within departments, and warns 
that such gross variation makes 
generalization about Carnegie 
Tech (and perhaps about any col
lege or university) hazardous.
Contest Offers < 
Cultural Award
Students from the Middle East
ern countries studying in the Unit
ed States are eligible for the Cul
tural Ambassador award, spon
sored annually by the American 
Friends of the Middle East.
Appointments are awarded on the 
basis of significant contributions^'} 
toward international understanding 
through the curricular and extra
curricular work of the student.
Any Carnegie Tech student may 
nominate a graduate or under
graduate by contacting Dean Swank, 
Foreign Student Advisor.
A nominee should be a native of 
the Arabian countries of the Middle 
East or North Africa, or Afghan
istan, Iran, Pakistan or Turkey.^
(MHO'S and PETE'S 
PIZZERIA
wHk fka ffyiif Pixsa
SPECIAL
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 
82-Mtl
mdzB v pgSvpk1
Over 500 new rugs, moatly 9x12. at city's lowest prices. 6x9 s, CXl5s, 12x15s, etc.
The following cosmopolitan occassional furniture items are shown: director chairs, butterfly chairs, round basket chairs, folding rope chairs, chiavari dining chairs, dining and slat benches.For complete bedrooms, livingrooms, diningrooms at 40% off (at Manufacturer showrooms), inquire at:
l0hBaVB
5432 Walnut St., Shady side 
1418 Fifth A vs.. Near Downtown
Open 10 a.m.-9 pan.Sat. 10-6
Ma. 7-7025 
Serving the College Trade.
Campus - FavoredW ALLYS
MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
WOMENHUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATSDRESS SHOES
Sikorsky 
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Stratford. Conn. 
__________________LLLL1__________________
Tuesday, February 22
Division of Unitad Aircraft Corp. I An Equal Opportunity Employer (M A F)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 16, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Ken Lutz
Exhibits
Excavations of Bethel, Israel. Paintings by Eva W. Weill. Carnegie 
Institute Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily 
except Sunday 2 to 5 p.m.
Trio Show: Printmakers Paul and Virginia Bruner; weaver, Elke Kuhn; 
and sculptor Horn Herr. Upstairs gallery: Collages, small sculp
tures and paintings by George Faddis. Arts and Crafts Center, 
t Fifth and Shady Aves. 
One-woman show by Marie Kelly. Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. 
Negley Ave.
Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Building, Schenley Plaza. Daily noon to 
4 p.m. Saturday, 1 to 5 p.m., Sunday 2 to 5 p.m.
* Masterpieces of Glass, Buhl Planetarium, North Side.
Etchings made from Lucite by John Silk Deckard. Chatham College, 
Woodland Rd.
Drama and Music
* Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. 
at Hamlet St. Nightly except Monday. Student tickets for all per
formances.
?Duquesne University Tamburitzans and Brass Ensemble. James Buchnes Memorial Concert. Rockwell Hall, 8 p.m. tonight.
Carnegie Tech Faculty Concert. Lawrence McCann, piano. Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Duquesne University, Student Recital, Donna Wilson, piano. School -of 
Music. February 17 at 1:15 p.m.
Pittsburgh Symphony Concert. Works by Prokofieff, Sessions, Dvorak, 
Syria Mosque. Friday at 8:40 p.m., Sunday at 3:10 p.m.
Organ Recital, Paul Koch, Carnegie Hall Northside, February 20 at 
3 p.m.
Morgan recital, Donald Wilkins, Carnegie Music Hall, 3:00 p.m.
Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band, Richard Strange, conductor. Carnegie 
Music Hall. February 20 at 8:15 p.m.
?Chamber Music Society, Vienna Octet. Carnegie Music Hall February 
21 at 8:30 p.m.
Sports
* Professional Hockey. Pittsburgh Hornets vs. Hershey, tonight at 8 p.m.
Hornets vs. Baltimore February 20 at 2 p.m. Civic Arena.
?Admission Charged
^Program Studies 
Creative Disbelief
The Campus Conference on reli
gion at Carnegie Tech will sponsor 
a program based on the theme 
Creative Disbelief from Febru
ary 19 through March 2.
The program will include a 
training session for students and 
faculty discussion leaders to be 
( held on February 19 from 11:30 
a.m. to 3 p.m. in Skibo.
Open discussion will be held un
til March 2 in the fraternities, 
on sorority floors and in other 
areas on campus.
A final assembly will be held 
on Wednesday, March 2, in the 
Skibo Ballroom at 7:30 p.m.
Further information may be ob
tained from Verna Volz, Religious 
# Affairs Office, Skibo 57 or Pat 
Bonner, 3D6 Morewood Gardens.
*
Whats Doing?
Continued from Page 5Monday
11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Mass, 
Skibo room 39.
7 p.m. Mens Dormitory Council, 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
7 p.m. The Great Scott Commit
tee. Skibo room 45.
7 p.m. Basketball, Tech vs. Thiel, 
away.
Tuesday
11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Mass, 
Skibo room 39.
4:30 p.m. Student Congress, Sldbo 
Wherrett Room.
4:30 to 5:45 p.m. Lecture on phi
losophies of Paul Tillich and 
Martin Buber, Taught by Dr. 
Richard Rubenstein, free to 
members of YMCA, YWCA and 
Hillel, $3.00 to non-members, 
Sldbo, Room 45.
7;30 p.m. Music Department, Ski
bo Wherrett Room.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Explorers Club. 
Skibo room 54.
8 to 11 p.m. Folk Dance Club. 
Sldbo Ballroom. I. M. Co-Rec. 
Badminton.
Best Dressed
Glamour Magazine is sponsor
ing its annual Ten Best Dressed 
College Girls in American con
test.
Carnegie Tech women interest
ed in participating in the contest 
should give their names to Mary 
Volpe, 2 B1 Morewood Gardens, by 
Monday, February 21.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Corrected.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421 1456
Etec trie Typewriters Used 
Exclus ively
Discount 
On Insurance
Sentry Insurance, a National In
surance Company, is introducing a 
new safe driving and proper at
titudes program offering an addi
tional 10 percent cash discount on 
auto insurance to qualified young 
drivers in Pennsylvania.
Key to the program is a short 
questionnaire the company is using 
to find those young male drivers 
it believes are less likely to have 
auto accidents than their con
temporaries.
The program is open to all male 
drivers in Pennsylvania under 25 
years of age, announced Harold F. 
Holtz, Sentry marketing vice pre
sident. He said those who score 
well on the questionnaire, who have 
good records as drivers and meet 
the usual standards of insurabili
ty will be offered auto insurance 
coverage at a 10 perceni cash dis
count.
The discount is in addition to 
another 15 per cent discount for 
those young drivers who have tak
en an accredited Driver Educa
tion course Holtz said.
Holtz said Sentry is the first 
major company to offer an imme
diate cash discount based on a 
written questionnaire. The ques
tionnaire will be administered at 
Sentrys branch offices in Pitts
burgh and Philadelphia and other 
cities where Sentry sales repre
sentatives are located. A schedule 
of testing centers will be set up 
and announced shortly.
THISTLE
GETCHA
Piff*
PITT'Sburgh pcrfcct 
Pizza
FAST TAKE OUT SERVICE 
SPECIAL GROUP RATES
DIAL 683-5222
" OAKLAND AVENUE
You're under 25
but you drive like an expert.
Why should .Fe have to paY 
extra for Your car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple 
questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more. 
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE. 
795-1393
SENTRY 11 INSURANCE
Music Includes 
Concert, Recital
The fifth of the Carnegie Con
cert Series will be presented to
night at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall.
Featured will be pianist Law
rence McCann who is a visiting 
guest teacher at Carnegie Tech 
during this spring semester. The 
program will include works by 
Scarlatti, Schubert, Prokofieff, and 
Chopin.
Johanna Westbrook, oboe, and 
Nancy Richards, string bass, will 
give a student recital on TTiursday, February 17, 8:30 in Exhibi
tion Hall.
Teachers To Discuss 
Vietnam And Draft
Members of the history, physics, 
and psychology departments will 
discuss Vietnam, the Draft, and 
You on Wednesday evening, Feb
ruary 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the GSIA 
Auditorium.
The program has been planned 
because of the ill-informed condi
tion of students whose participa
tion in the war may be imminent.
Jazz Band
Phi Mu Alpha Jazz Band has been 
chosen to represent Carnegie 
Tech, in the Sixth Annual Villanova University intercollegiate 
Jazz Festival, to be held near Phil
adelphia on February 25-26.
Frosted Blush-On
New from Revlon
The sheerest touch of shimmer you 
fluff oriwith a brush! Flick it on all 
over your facecheeks, chin, every
place! 3 shades: Frosty Pink, Frosty 
Peach and Frosty White (a shimmery, 
no-color finish.) In tortoise-tone case 
with brush. 4.00 plus tax.
EXCLUSIVELY AT
A^eKilUritjC Wwnnaej
X  V
SOUTH AIKEN AVENUE AT WALNUT STREET 
MAvrLOWC* 1-5900 10172
Pi**sburghs Olds* Fin Jwlrs sinc 1832 
3 FINE STORES
^xciuive at Roberts
DIAMONDRINGS
VENETIA .. . FROM $100
One of our most sculptured diamond solataires. Gracious curves 
swirling to hold the firey stone. In 18 kt. white gold.
Worlds Fins* DiaMond *o Fi* Your Budg*!
JOHN M. ROBERTS ' SON (
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Ml. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
For '66...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTOR
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 16, 1966
Tartans Beat Grove City 80-71 
But Lose 68-62 To Panthers
Coach Mel Cratsleys artan basketball team, hitting the toughest part of its 
schedule, passed one test on the road at Grove City last Tuesday but lost out against Pitt at Skibo Gym on Thursday. Tech dazzled the Grove City fans by hit
ting a gaudy 59% of its field goal attempts to win 80-71, then faltered in the second 
half Thursday and dropped a 68-62 decision to the Panthers. This Monday the 
Tartans played their next-to-last home game with the Bethany Bisons, winners of 
11 straight and Presidents Athletic Conference leaders.
HUMMEL HITS 32 FOR JVS 
In the preliminary game, the 
Tech junior varsity played Pitts 
freshman team, reputed to be one 
of the best freshman squads in the 
state. Big Barry Hummel scored 
32 points for the Tartan TVs but 
Pitt won 84-72.
Tech plays at W, & J. tonight, 
at Thiel next Monday, at Geneva 
next Thursday, and at John Car
roll on Saturday, February 26. The 
last home game is Wednesday 
night, March 2, against Waynesburg, and the final game of the sea
son is Saturday, March 5, at Case 
Tech.
Already this season the Tartans 
have beat W. & J. 81-63, Geneva 
81-71, and Waynesburg 81-73.
Between Class or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTYSOPEN TO sERVE YOW 
24 HOWRs A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
IM Water Polo, 
Table Tennis 
Playoffs Over
by Mike Cooperman
Beta Theta Pi won the intramural 
water polo championship this past 
week with a 5-4 double-overtime 
victory over ATO. The match was 
chiefly defensive at the outset with 
neither team taking many shots 
at the goal, but opened up in the 
second half and was tied 4-4 at the 
gun. Playing sudden death, the 
Betas pushed through a goal early 
in the second overtime period.
In the consolation game, SAE 
won by forfeit over BSR.
Table Tennis
In the team table tennis champ
ionship, the Civil Hammers nipped 
Tau Delta Phi. The E. J.s swept 
Delta Tau Delta in the consolation 
for third place.
3-Man Volleyball
Three-man volleyball is now in 
the playoffs but only a few games 
were played this past week. The 
highlighting contest found the Civ
il Hammers, favored to take first 
in the school, just getting past 
TDP 16-14, 20-18.
Track Men To Meet 
Tomorrow Evening
by Chris Macosko
Runners to your marks...* 
Carnegie Techs track team has 
already started to unlimber sag
ging muscles and shed some winter 
fat. A meeting of the team and all 
interested newcomers will be held 
tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. in the locker 
room below Donner Hall
With the graduation otf several 
star seniors, especially ih the field 
events, positions on the team are 
wide open in nearly eveify event. 
Coach Ed Vamos' men posted a 
6-4 record last season, but will 
need new talent and lots of work 
if they are to do as Mfell this 
year.
Six home meets this year should 
satisfy Tech track fans* appetites. 
Workouts are every weekday at 
4;30. Equipment is now being is
sued in the athletic office to team 
members.
Swimmers Boast 
3-Game Win Streak
by John Mera
Not ones to be left behind by the basketball or rifle teams, the 
members of the Carnegie Tech swimming squad have shaken off 
a bad start and put together a winning streak of their own. After 
a hard-earned 48-47 victory at Cleveland State two Saturdays]^ 
ago the Tartans crushed Allegheny 60 to 35 last Wednesday and 
Davis & Elkins 59-36 on Saturday.
Ray Burdett, guarded by Jim LaValley of Pitt, goes for two early in the 
second half. Watching action are Ray Morrison (22) and Larry Szykowny (5).
Tartan Photo by Dave Leavitt
Rifle Team 
Bumps State,
Wins 3 More
by Scott McCormick
Returning to competition after 
a four-week lay for exams and in
tersession, the rifle team came up 
with two of their best matches of 
the year while notching wins over 
Penn State, Geneva, W.&J., and 
Allegheny. Howard Graham and 
Emory Froelich, two rapidly im
proving sophomores, paced the 
Tartan shooters in these matches. 
Tech upsets Lions
Tech Upsets Lions
Penn State came into Pittsburgh 
boasting All-America candidate 
Jim Dunning and a 1434 score fired 
against Army the week before, but 
left town talking to themselves. 
Tech's Scott McCormick came up 
with the highest score of his 
career, a 287, as did Froelich who 
shot 286. Fred Klein stayed hot 
with a 282, and Dick Dambergs 
278 and Graham's 277 gave Tech 
a final score of 1410. Penn State 
got a 287 from Dunning but only 
enough support from the rest of 
their shooters to finish at 1407.
Carnegie then travelled to Ge
neva where they beat theCoviesby 
a score of 1387 to 1370. Tech trail
ed in this match after the second 
relay when Kay Dryden's 268 was 
the top score of the five Tartans 
who had shot so far, but Graham 
hit a 282 and Klein 276 to tie the 
match up. Damberg's 281 and 
Froelich's 280 iced the match in the 
final relay.
Saturday morning found W.&J. 
and Allegheny at Tech's Jenkins 
range for a three-way match which 
the Tartans won easily. Graham 
and Froelich came through with 285 
and 284 respectively to lead Tech 
to a 1411, its highest score of the 
year, while W.&J. shot 1374 and 
Allegheny shot a feeble 1369.
Second in AIRL
These wins boosted the Tar
tans' record to 8 and 3, including 
6 wins and 2 losses in the Alleg
heny Intercollegiate Rifle League. 
Indiana holds first place in the 
league with a 5-1 record, while 
Clarion is in second at 4-1. Since 
Indiana has completed all its tough 
matches and Tech and Clarion 
have two matches with each other, 
the Indians look like league champs 
this year. Carnegie plays host to 
Clarion this Friday night and will 
be shooting to knock them out of 
the second spot.
Copying Machine
The Hunt Library has recent
ly acquired the Dennison Copier.
The machine, located on the 
librarys third floor, is particu
larly useful to fine arts students 
who can use it to reproduce prints.
Reproductions, costing ten cents 
each, may be made of both library 
and non - library materials.
Five players scored in double 
figures for Tech in the GC game 
as Lang had 18, Kalin 16, Brown 
and Morrison 12, and Burdett, 
10. Jeff Claypool, the Grovers* 
66 freshman center, had 22 
points. Tech broke away to a 35- 
26 halftime lead and then beat 
off a late home-team rally after 
Brown fouled out with five min
utes to play.
A standing - room - only crowd, 
surely larger than the announced 
2,007, which jammed the gymna
sium to urge Tech to beat Pitts
burgh State Teachers College** saw 
the Tartans lose to Pitt for the 
22nd straight time.
The Tartans played the Cats to 
a standoff for the first 25 minu
tes, and early in the second half 
took leads of 39-38 and 41-40. 
Pitt foiled any attempt to open a big 
lead, though, and ripped off a scor
ing spurt that put them 12 points 
ahead at 63-51. They held this 
margin the rest of the way until 
a last-minute Tartan burst cut the 
final spread to six.
FOULS DAMAGING
Fouls hurt Tech considerably, 
as the Panthers converted nume
rous one-and-one situations and 
Cratsley had to shuffle Burdett, 
Morrison, and Brown in and out of 
the game to keep them out of foul 
trouble. All three eventually fouled 
out, Burdett at 7:28 and Morrison 
at 4:10.
As in the first Pitt game, Tech 
had the edge In field goals, 23 to 
22. Pitt controlled the boards this 
time, though, getting 42 rebounds 
to 29 for Tech.
Techs Don Keefer stole the 
show as far as individual perfor
mances was concerned, sinking 6 
out of 7 field goals and 7 of 7 foul 
shots.
Allegheny College could hardly 
be blamed for never wanting to 
play Carnegie Tech in any inter^ 
collegiate sport again after this 
year. Last week the Tech swim
ming team breezed past Alleg
heny 60-35, while the rifle team 
was wasting the Allegheny shoot
ers 1411-1369 in a three-way meet. 
The Tartan football squad trounced 
the Gators 27-6 last fall, and three 
weeks ago Techs basketballers 
barely broke a sweat beating their 
Allegheny foes 93-59. ,
Once again the Cats held down 
Techs Jim Brown and Ray Mor
rison fairly effectively; Brown got 
off just six shots ^all night (he 
made three) and Morrison was 4 
for 11. The Tartans held Bob 
Lovett to a 3-for-12 night from 
the field, but guard Stan Falenski 
got hot in the second half to help 
Pitt pull away. Larry Szykowny, 
the other Panther guard, chipped in 
18 points.
Lovett sprained his ankle badly 
while chasing Techs Neal Houser 
upcourt in the last minute of play 
and will probably miss a few 
games.
Pitts Stan Falenski, boxed up in 
the corner by Jim Brown, 
passes off.
Tartan Photo by Dave Leavitt
A Very Bad Year
Tech diver Stuart Kennison 
performs his mid-air contortions 
while a judge watches critically.
Tartan Photo by Mike Perei
Both of these last two rela
tively effortless victories were at 
the Tech pool. Tech thus has won 
three of its first four swimming 
meets this semester. Coupled with 
a 1 and 4 first-semester slate, |] 
these triumphs gave the natators 
a respectable season record of 4 
and 5.
Against Davis & Elkins, in front 
of a greater-than-usual number of 
spectators, the Tartans took 
first in every event but the 500- 
yard freestyle, 400-yard medley 
relay, and the 200-yard butter
fly. Bill Cotsworth lost the 500 
freestyle by a whisker, and the * 
400 medley relay was a disappoint
ing story indeed. The Tech team 
of Cotsworth, Johnson, Wyman and 
Hutter finished first in 4:14.2, 
beating the old pool record by four 
and nine-tenths seconds, but was 
disqualified because of a false 
start by Hutter.
3 Road Meets Coming
The next three meets for the 1 
swimmers are all away. Next home 
meet is Friday, February 25, 
against Western Reserve.
