Volume 95, Issue 9tartan@andrew.cmu.edu6 November 2000
Career Center may move 
due to space constraints
Interim H&SS dean accepts permanent position
by Eve Chen
Junior Staffwriter
Though no final decision has 
been made, the University has 
proposed to move the career cen
ter to the University Center, possi
bly in the fall of 2004, according 
to the Dean of' Student Affairs, 
Michael Murphy. Currently locat
ed in the basement of the Warner 
Hall, the Career Center needs 
more space than is presently avail
able.
Career development, intern
ships, student employment and 
placement are essential, and the 
current space is straining under 
our growing investments in this 
area, Murphy stated. The pro
posed Career Center will have 
more space for interviewing, "for 
employer information sessions, 
and for career exploration activi
ties.
Some students agreed that 
there should be more space for the 
Career Center. Many also felt that 
the center wasnt as visible as it 
should be while located in its pre
sent location. I have used the
Career Center in particular for 
resume advice. I think that it is a 
wonderful resource that not many 
people know about/ said Tina 
Laffkas, a junior electrical and 
computer engineering major. I 
think it would be a good idea to 
move it to a more visual and a 
more accessible spot on campus. 
And the UC would be nearly an 
ideal place because lots of people 
spend their breaks in Kirr 
Commons.
I think it would be great for the 
career center to move out of 
Warner and into titefoc. In the UC 
its more accessible because every
one is in there for one reason or 
another, whereas I go to Warner 
once or twice a year to go to the 
Hub, said Ranise Jackson, a 
junior psychology major.
There certainly should be more 
space, but I havent had much 
experience with it, graduate stu
dent Sarah Rees said.
Having discussed the idea about 
moving the Career Center for a lit
tle over a year, the school had con
sidered the basement of the 
University Center as a possible 
See CAREER, page A3
by Aseem Gupta
Online Editor
On Wednesday, Acting Dean 
John P. Lehoczky of the College and 
Humanities and Social Science 
(H&SS) was appointed Dean of the 
college. H&SS was without an offi
cial Dean for nearly 10 months after 
long-time Dean Peter Stearns 
resigned from his position and 
Carnegie Mellon last year. When 
Stearns left his position to become 
the provost of George Mason 
University in January, Lehoczky, 
the Tomas Lord . Professor of 
Statistics and Mathematical 
Sciences was appointed Acting 
Dean of H&SS.
He is a top notch scholar, very 
well respected as a researcher and 
an outstanding teacher, said Mark 
Kamlet, recently appointed Provost 
of the University. He has tremen
dous integrity and he devotes a lot 
of enthusiasm and time to his job.
The University started its search 
for the new dean immediately fol
lowing Stearns departure. 
Operating in near secrecy, the 
search committee evaluated a 
number of unnamed candidates 
and submitted their recommendaSee DEAN, page A7
Dean Lehoczky was officially appointed last week. During his tenure, Lehoczky hopes to increase program integra
tion, as well as bringing the humanities to the forefront at Carnegie Mellon.
Tuesday Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1Q06
Hi 63/Lo 48 0 r r
WEDNESDAY
Hi 63/Lo 44
THURSDAYHi 60/Lo 43
FRIDAYTHE TARTAN
University works to better connect 
apartment residents with campus
by Clinton Brownley
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University is 
now working to upgrade Oakland 
apartment residents to the same 
speeds and conveniences of oncampus students, who are'' 
already enjoying fast Internet 
connections and CMU cable ser! vices.  'SKjrl-ey^ Marybelle, Shady Oak,
| Cathedral Mansions, Webster,
Fairfax, and Amberson apart
ments are all CMU student resi
dential buildings that will be 
receiving the technological 
facelift. The University is pro
gressing toward equal data and 
cable services'for these Oakland 
apartments, but scheduling with 
suppliers and. installers leaves 
current timelines standing on 
less than firm ground. None of
the timelines mentioned [are] ----------------------------------------------  ------ -----.. "1 Peter Wang/Assistant Darkroom Manager
11m. s tiese pans irm up, I ^he shady'Oak is one of the apartment buildings that wil|  be receiving 
APARTMENTS, See page A3 improved campus connections. It will soon have Ethernet and'CMU cable.
Domestic partners health benefits 
proposal continues development
by Clinton Brownley
Staffwriter
Last year, the Faculty Senate 
Committee passed a health bene
fits policy granting health cover
age to same-sex domestic couples. 
In May, the Board of Trustees also 
agreed to the plan. The topic 
became an issue after Toby Davis, 
chair of the Human Relations 
Commit^'."and other committee 
mepibers submitted a report to the 
faculty Website and passed the 
proposal. The Human Relations 
Committee (HRC) was established 
as .an independent assembly 
responsible for exploring and 
investigating controversial issues 
on the CMU campus. The HRC
investigates topic requests made 
by the administration, Faculty 
Senate, or staff council. The 
report discussed last year provided 
information about Carnegie 
Mellons health benefits policy and 
proposed extended coverage. Jay 
Kadane, chair of the Faculty 
Senate Committee, endorsed the 
proposal and the idea that couples 
do not have to be married to 
receive benefits. What were talk
ing about now is the policy deci
sion of whether to do this or not to 
do it, he said.
Under the old policy, dependent 
children were eligible for coverage 
up to a defined age of maturity 
without regard to state in the fam
ily. The report stated, The spouse 
of an employee is eligible since
benefits are given to dependents 
without regard to state in the fam
ily. Homosexual couples are not 
recognized by the state as being 
married, no matter what their 
domestic arrangements, under the 
prevailing law. Accordingly, such 
couples have not been recognized 
as being eligible for health bene
fits under existing University poli
cy. The report also emphasized 
the Carnegie Mellon University 
Statement of Assurance stating 
that the University does not dis
criminate in admission, employ
ment, or administration of its pro
grams on the basis of religion, 
creed, ancestry, belief, age, veter
an status, sexual orientation, or in 
violation of federal, state, or local 
See HEALTH, page A5
Students, family mourn recent death 
of first-year Carnegie Mellon student
INSIDE THE
Forum
We're not here right now"  
The story behind the Instant 
Messenger, 
page A8
Sports
Swimming teams drown oppo
nents. Tartan D gleams 
despite a near heartbreaking 
r defeat to NCAA's all-time lead| ng rusher and his supporting 
j cast, 
page A12
TARTAN
Arts & Living
Greek Week  Check out Band 
Wars and the Bachelor Auction. 
The Purnell Center sign changes 
and there's a new exhibit at The 
Frame, 
page B1
Business
Will Intel Corporation buy out 
Carnegie Mellon University? 
Possibly... 
page B4
Entertainment
Pizza, pizza: Before you pick up 
that phone, make sure you know 
who you're ordering from, 
page B7
by Seth Mandel
Managing Editor
Family and friends are mourn
ing the death of Justin Smith, a 
first-year Science and Humanities 
student. Smith died in Pittsburgh 
on the afternoon of Tuesday,
October 31. He was originally 
from Tennessee.
Smith was one of about 30 
novice members of the Carnegie 
Mellon Crew team, according to 
the teams president David 
Clumpner, a senior business 
administration major. He said 
Smith seemed to be having a posi
tive experience with the team and 
blended in.
He smiled and was happy. He 
seemed to be pleased with how 
things were going. He was work
ing out and getting in better shape.
He seemed to be a team player, 
said Clumpner.
While the tragedy has hit the 
crew team hard, Clumpner said 
that the team seems to be doing 
better now. On the night of 
Smiths death, the crew team had a 
meeting where they discussed the 
incident. A counseling session was 
held for the team on Wednesday 
night where students who were 
having a difficult time coping with 
the death spoke of their feelings.
People have realized that let
ting this hurt them is not what he 
wanted, said Clumpner. He 
would have wanted the crew team 
to race and do well without him.
People realize that and we hope to 
use it as motivation to move on.
I thought it was going to break 
people apart, but it didnt. People 
came together and through emo
tions team unity has strength
ened, said Clumpner.
This is a very difficult loss for 
the community. Justins family is 
incredible, and the support Justin Smith, the second rower from the left, is shown participating inshared between the family and Ergomania 2000, a Crew team fundraising event on October 11.
Justins friends has been very 
special, said Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy. Just as 
it has been for those closest to 
Justin, it is an important time for 
everyone in the community to 
come together in support of one 
another.
Clumpner said that Smith also 
fit in well with his dormitory floor 
and that the members of his floor 
were a big part of his experience 
at CMU. Smith lived in Scobell 
Hall.
Smith was also involved in the 
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP), a program for AfricanAmerican, Hispanic, and NativeAmerican students. .CMAP invit
ed students in the program to a 
gathering on Friday evening to 
reflect on the loss.
Smiths parents said that he also 
loved music. From Bob Marley to 
Mozart, Justins love of music was 
a song of joy in our lives and the 
world, they said.
Other members of Smiths fami
ly shared their remembrances with 
The Tartan.
Justin had a joyous spirit and 
an abiding love for family and
friends. He said I had catalyzed 
his passion for math and science. 
At this time, we must all dedicate 
our lives to make this world a bet
ter and easier place to live, said 
his uncle Tom.
Justins bright light will never 
be extinguished. He will be in our 
hearts forever, said his Aunt 
Ingie.
In a news release to the campus 
community, Murphy said, 
Consistent with the wishes of the 
family, further information is 
being shared only with friends. 
Murphy also said in his posting 
to the campus community, All 
members of the community are 
reminded that the staff of 
Counseling and Psychological 
Services is available 24 hours a day 
at 268-2922.
The funeral service will be 
held today at 2 pm in 
Brentwood, TN. Six students 
and staff from the University 
will be attending.
Smiths parents said that Justins 
favorite quote was from Albert 
Einstein  The only difference 
between genius and insanity is
Enthusiastic Gore/Lieberman supporters gathered on the corner of Fifth and Craig Street Sunday after
noon to encourage voters to choose their candidates.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
OFKrFipVIRE
Clinton vetoes classified-leaks bill
NEW YORK (AP)  President 
Clinton on Saturday vetoed a bill 
that would have criminalized the 
leaking of government secrets. The 
legislation, he said, might chill 
legitimate activities that are at the 
heart of a democracy.
The proposal had drawn criticism 
from news organizations, which said 
it would stifle their ability to obtain 
information vital to the public.
We must never forget that the 
free flow of information is essen
tial to a democratic society, 
Clinton said in a statement.
He cited the badly flawed provi
sion as the reason he vetoed a bill 
that authorizes spending for the 
CIA, National Security Agency and 
other intelligence activities for the 
fiscal year that began October 1. 
The total intelligence budget is clas
sified and is not made public, but is 
believed to be about $30 billion.
The president urged Congress to 
pursue a more narrowly drawn pro
vision tested in public hearings so 
that those they represent can also 
be heard on this important issue. 
GOP Represtative Porter Goss of 
Florida, chair of the House 
Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence, said the administration 
did not express concerns about the 
provision in earlier negotiations. To 
veto this critical piece of legislation 
now is disruptive and may send a 
dangerous signal to those who would 
harm U.S. interests, Goss said.
The provision would have extended penalties that now exist for leak
ing classified national defense infor
mation to the leaking of other classi
fied data that could harm the 
United States if made public or 
given to foreign governments. 
Clinton said he agreed with con
gressional sponsors of the legisla
tion that unauthorized disclosures 
of classified information can be 
extraordinarily harmful to United 
States national security and that too 
many such disclosures occur.
Those who disclose classified 
information inappropriately com
mit a gross breach of the public trust 
and may recklessly put our national 
security at risk, he said. Clinton, 
however, said that in dispute was 
not the seriousness of the problem 
but the best way to respond to it. As 
president... it is my responsibility to 
protect not only our governments 
vital information from improper 
disclosure but also to protect the 
rights of citizens, he said.
Four of the nations largest news 
organizations  CNN, TheWashington Post, The New York Times, and the Newspaper
Association of America  asked 
Clinton last week to veto the bill.
They and other critics, including 
some from both parties in
Congress, feared the measure could 
have stopped news media from get
ting information to the public.
Clinton said the measure could 
chill the legitimate activities of gov
ernment officials. A desire to avoid
the risk that their good faith choice 
of words  their exercise of judg
ment  could become the subject 
of a criminal referral for prosecu
tion might discourage government 
officials from engaging even in 
appropriate public discussion, press 
briefings, or other legitimate offi
cial activities, Clinton said.
The legislation also could have 
also discouraged or restrained for
mer government officials from 
teaching, writing or engaging in 
any activity aimed at building public 
understanding of complex issues, 
he said. Incurring such risks is 
unnecessary and inappropriate in a 
society built on freedom of expres
sion and the consent of the governed 
and is particularly inadvisable in a 
context in which the range of classi
fied materials is so extensive.
Attorney General Janet Reno had 
predicted that the provision would 
not have dramatically increased the 
number of prosecutions. She said 
the difficulty finding leakers rather 
than the legal gap was the reason for 
the small number of prosecutions.
The only leak prosecution in 
recent memory occurred in 1985 
when a Navy researcher was pros
ecuted for leaking a satellite photo 
of a Soviet Navy ship under con
struction to the publication Janes Fighting Ships. There are numer
ous leak investigations that fall 
short of prosecution, although 
some have lead to resignations or 
administrative discipline.
Lawyers plan slave reparations suit
NATIONAL (AP)  A powerful 
group of civil rights and classaction lawyers who have won bil
lions of dollars in court is prepar
ing a lawsuit seeking reparations 
for American blacks descended 
from slaves.
The project, called the 
Reparations Assessment Group, 
was confirmed by Harvard law 
professor Charles J. Ogletree and 
appears to be the most serious 
effort yet to get American blacks 
compensated for more than 240 
years of legalized slavery. Lawsuits 
and legislation dating back to the 
mid-1800s have gone nowhere.
We will be seeking more than 
just monetary compensation, 
Ogletree said. We want a change in 
America. Ogletree said the group, 
which includes famed attorney 
Johnnie Cochran, first met in July 
and will hold its fourth meeting in 
Washington D.C. later this month.
For now, there are more ques
tions than answers in the planned
litigation. Left to be determined 
are when the suit will be filed, 
exactly who will be named as 
defendants and what damages will 
be sought. Ogletree declined to 
discuss specifics but said the feder
al government, state governments 
and private entities such as corpo
rations and institutions that bene
fited from slave labor could be tar
gets of the legal action.
Ogletree said the Reparations 
Assessment Group includes attor
neys Cochran and Alexander J. 
Pires Jr., who won a $1 billion set
tlement for black farmers who 
claimed discrimination by the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, 
Richard Scruggs, who won the 
$368.5 billion settlement for states 
against tobacco companies, and 
Dennis C. Sweet III, who won a 
$400 million settlement in the 
phen-fen diet drug case.
Ogletree said the assessment 
group will call on experts in edu
cation, politics, family develop
ment, health and economics to 
help trace how slaverys out
growths such as segregated 
schooling and neighborhoods have 
affected society today.
Reparation supporters point to 
recent cases where groups have 
been compensated in cash for his
toric indignities and harm. A letter 
of formal apology and $20,000 
were given by the U.S. government 
to each Japanese-American held in 
internment camps during World 
War II. Reparation opponents 
argue that victims in the Nazi and 
Japanese-American cases were 
directly harmed while many gener
ations separate enslaved blacks and 
their modern-day descendants.
In addition, those opposed to 
reparations say it isnt fair for tax
payers and corporations who never 
owned slaves to be burdened with 
possible multibillion dollar settle
ments. Neither Ogletree nor Pires 
mentioned any industry or compa
ny that could be a target of the suit.
Corrections & Clarifications
In Volume 95, Issue 8, the review of the October 27 PSO concert pianist Emmanuel Ax was listed as playing 
with a cellist from the symphony, but it should have said she was a principal cellist and CMU faculty member 
Anne Martindale Williams.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-ChiefIshHarshawat atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
byEveC h nAvsmvsG h uvspvsG 
Pittsburgh
3710 Forbes Ave.  412-687-2752 
210 Grant St. *412-471-8004kinko's
Open 24 hours  wwv.kinkos.com  1-
I 40 BLACK & WHITE COPIES
I Receive 8-1/2' i II' Exptess sell-serve, single-sided, black-and-wtjite copies on
1 white bond loi |ust4(each. Limit 50. Oiler is limited to cne coupon pet custom.
I Customer must lelinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon may not be
1 reproduced and is not valid with other coupons, oilers or discounts. Oiler valid at
I time ol purchase only and may not be discounted or credited-to past or future
I purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon vrid where prohibited
| or restricted by law. No cash value.
| VALID AT KINKOS PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKOS LOCATIONS ONLY. |kinko'sr| j LAr l/OX/UU j
3-2-KINKOS  America Online Keyword: Kinkos
T 790 FULL COLOR COPIES 1
I Receive 8-1/2x11* Express sell-serve, single-sided, lull color copies on 24-lb. I
white bond loi Just 79f each, limit 25. Resizing costs extra. Oiler is limited to one 1 
1 coupcn per customer. Customer must relinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon I 
may not be reproduced and is net valid with other coupons, oilers or discounts. > 
011 valid at time ol purchase only and may not be discounted or credited to past I 
or future purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where I 
prohibited or restricted by law. No cash value. |
VALID AT KINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY. |
^ kinko's
i i 
i i
Products and services vary by location. America Online is a registered servicemark ol America Online, Inc. Kinko's and tankos.com are registered trademarks ol Kinko's Ventures, Inc. and are used by 
permission. Kinko's requires written permission Irom the copyright holder in order to reproduce any copyrighted work. 02000 Kinko's, Inc. All rights reserved.
National News
Town requires 
household guns
VIRGIN, Utah (AP)  This tiny 
southern Utah town has enacted an 
| ordinance requiring a gun and 
| ammunition in every home for resij dents self-defense.
Most of Virgins 350 residents 
; already own firearms so the initia; tive has lots of support, Mayor Jay 
! Lee said. Residents had expressed 
, fear that their Second Amendment 
; right to bear arms' was under fire so 
the town council modeled a similar 
measure passed by a Georgia city 
about 12 years ago.
The mentally ill, convicted 
| felons, conscientious objectors, and 
j people who cannot afford to own a 
gun are exempt.
Eminem debate 
spreads beyond 
U. Illinois
(U-WIRE) CHAMPAIGN, 111.  
The controversy over Eminems 
performance at the University of 
Illinois began as a small discussion 
between 10 students and the 
administration. Now, the issue has 
gained national attention.
A student activist group that was 
offended by the rappers visit put a 
petition online and the group plans to 
present it to the administrators. The 
petition against hate, harassment,
and defamation at the University had 
120 signatures as of Thursday 
evening.
The group initially hoped the 
University would cancel the 
Thursday night show, which also 
included Limp Bizkit and Papa 
Roach. Nick Sakurai, the groups 
leader and sophomore in LAS, said 
he succeeded in getting the word out 
because he has heard many respons
es from people who agreed and dis
agreed with The Anger Management 
Tour visit. Fox News in Chicago did a 
story about the groups protest.
Sakurai fought the University 
because administrators allowed 
Assembly Hall to host the artist, 
whose lyrics include anti-gay and 
misogynistic messages. He said that 
since the argument began, he has 
received hate mail and a death 
threat that said, If the concert is 
cancelled, youre dead.
After reading the emails, Sakurai 
and other activists believed students 
got the wrong message, he said. 
Sakurai said the activist group isnt 
attacking students  its trying to 
hold the University accountable for 
its statement that prohibits discrimi
nation and harassment based on sex
ual orientation and gender.
This is not a moral crusade against 
hip-hop, rap and bad language in 
music, said Alex Bonick, activist and 
senior in LAS. We are not trying to 
violate Eminems freedom-of-speech 
right. Its a different thing when the
University brings him to campus and 
profits off hate and violence.
Its not a freedom-of-speech 
issue, Kathleen Herrera, junior in 
LAS and one of the protesters, said. 
The problem I have is that the con
cert is not occurring on public 
grounds. You talk about freedom of 
speech in a public place, and 
Assembly Hall isnt a public place. 
Michael John Glaz, senior in engi
neering, disagreed with Herrera. He 
said he thinks Eminem has the right 
to perform because he has the free
dom to say what he wants. [The 
University] is a public place, and any
body should have the right to per
form here, Glaz said. If the whole 
world is offended, he should still have 
the right to put on the show. The 
University is a place where different 
ideas and beliefs can be shared, and 
these are Eminems beliefs.
Aside from gay and lesbian advoca
cy groups, some women also disagree 
with the Universitys decision to let 
Eminem perform. Debbie Murphy, 
coordinator of sexual assault pro
grams, said having a performer who 
talks about raping and killing women 
perform at the University gives noth
ing but a bad message.
But the activists want more than 
the opportunity to express their 
opinions. They want an apology 
and some of the profits from the 
concert to go to womens groups,
 and gay, lesbian, and transgen
dered groups.
World News
Yugoslavia 
approves new 
government
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP)  
Yugoslavias parliament approved 
the countrys first communist-free 
government in more than half a 
century Saturday, moving closer to 
ending years of isolation and 
decline under former President 
Slobodan Milosevic.
The new Cabinet, proposed by 
the new President Vojislav 
Kostunica, won approval in both 
chambers of the federal parliament 
from the deputies of Yugoslavias 
two republics, Serbia and 
Montenegro. It was formally inau
gurated shortly afterward.
After eight hours of acrimonious 
debate between lawmakers backing 
Kostunica and Milosevic, the new 
government was voted into office 
by a vote of 136-19. There are 178 
seats total in both chambers. The 
remaining lawmakers were not pre
sent for the vote. The new Cabinet 
replaced a coalition primarily made 
up of Socialists  the renamed 
communists of Milosevic  and the 
neo-communist party of his wife. 
Before that government and others 
dominated by the Socialists, the 
Yugoslav Communist Party found
ed by Josip Broz Tito held sway for 
nearly four decades.
New Prime Minister Zoran Zizic 
outlined priorities for the new gov
ernment: restoring diplomatic 
relations with Western countries
severed because of the 1999 NATO 
bombing of the country, econom
ic and social reforms ... accelerat
ed privatization and further 
adjusting of the countrys econom
ic and legal system with European 
Union regulations. Zizic pledged 
the new government will secure 
international economic assistance 
for Yugoslavias economic recov
ery,.and respect its international 
obligations  such as the Dayton 
peace agreement signed by 
Milosevic in 1996 to end the 
Bosnian war.
Zizic expressed support for the 
U.N. Security Council Resolution 
that ended fighting in Serbias 
Kosovo province, but said United 
Nations and NATO, currently in 
charge of the province, .are .not 
respecting the U.N. document 
under which they deployed in the 
province. He did not elaborate, but 
the previous government often 
asserted that the international 
organizations made decisions that 
ran counter to the provinces status 
as part of Serbia.
Milosevic and four of his associates 
have been indicted by the U.N. war 
crimes tribunal in connection with 
the Kosovo conflict. Echoing earlier 
statements by Kostunica, Zizic said, 
Cooperation with the Hague 
Tribunal will not be a priority for the 
federal government. Zizic also 
announced efforts to help refugees 
from Kosovo, Croatia and BosniaHerzegovina, referring to the nearly 
1 million ethnic Serbs who fled the 
former war zones in conflicts that
Milosevic helped instigate. The 
changes in Yugoslavia began with 
the electoral defeat of Milosevic in 
September. Under Milosevic, 
Yugoslavia suffered under punitive 
international sanctions.
Since the September 24 elections, 
Kostunicas 18-party alliance, the 
Democratic Opposition of Serbia, has 
moved to consolidate its authority. 
The Saturday session largely com
pleted the handover of power on the 
federal level, although Milosevics 
Socialists continue to hold some 
authority in Serbia, the main 
Yugoslav republic, sharing power 
with other parties until elections next 
month expected to give Kostunicas 
alliance a sweeping victory.
On the federal level, Kostunicas 
alliance holds..the-foreign,.-police, 
justice, traffic, health, agriculture, 
telecommunications, sports, and 
ethnic minorities ministries. Zizic 
comes from the federations smaller 
republic, Montenegro, and his 
Socialist Peoples Party controls the 
defense, health, finance, and agri
culture ministries.
Also Saturday, Kostunica sought 
to ease tensions over replacements 
of police and army commanders 
who served under Milosevic, saying 
there would be no hasty changes 
in the forces. Hasty replacements 
of people from top positions in 
police and the military are 
undoubtedly against state interests 
because that would lead to a desta
bilization, Kostunica said in a 
statement faxed to The Associated 
Press.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
Unofficial Fall 2000 Student Senate Election Results
Carnegie Institute of Technology (5 seats, 114 voters)School of Computer Science (2 seats, 55 voters)
David Salinas - 58 votesJennifer Lin - 30 votes
Ruchi Sanghvi - 57 votesJenny Lane - 24 votes
Benjamin Erne - 22 votes*Optimus Prime -10 votes
Keith Eich -17 votesMarc Zinck - 6 votes
Ivan Sljussar -12 votesRobert Wang - 5 votes
Matt Longnecker -10 votesMayhew Seavey - 4 votes
*Optimus Prime -10 votes*Mark Stehlik - 2 votes
College of Fine Arts (3 seats, 17 voters)School of Industrial Administration
Neil Laeau - 4 votes(2 seats, 38 voters, 1 abstention)
Larry Fabroni - 2 votesDonald Tang - 24 votes
ALaura Franek - 2 votesVanessa Braganza - 21 votes
Angela Tsai - 2 votes
College of Humanities & Social Sciences (3 seats, 68 voters)Miscellaneous: BHA/BSA/SHS (1 seat, 10 voters)
Ashley Campbell - 58 votesA+Ken Weaver - 3 votes
Paul Richelmi - 38 votes 
Quinten Steenhuis - 38 votes 
Sarah Sahni - 7 votes 
John Hursh - 6 votes 
Eric Spaulding - 4 votes 
Sirisha Reddy - 4 votes
Mary Spotts - 2 votes
Mellon College of Science (2 seats, 60 voters)Election winners names appear in bold.
Only the top seven candidates are listed In each category. 
* Denotes that candidate is ineligible because s/he is not a
Mary Kosinski - 36 votes 
Ashish Basuray - 33 votes
Dionisios Vasilatos - 7 votes 
+Optimus Prime - 4 votes
Student Activities Fee-paying student 
+ denotes that candidate is ineligible because s/he is not a 
member of this college.
A Denotes that candidate is ineligible because s/he is a 
Fall 2000 Election Board member.
A+Ken Weaver - 4 votes 
+Charles In Charge - 3 votes 
+Megatron - 2 votes
http://W or ds Wellness Wisdom
Brought to you by Student Health Services
 The GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT isThursday November 16, 2000.GO COLD TURKEY!
We want to help you quit....trade in 
your pack of cigarettes for a Cold 
Turkey Sandwich in the UC from 
11:00am2:00pm on Thursday 
November 16,2000
Campus works to wire 
Oakland apartments
Oklahoma State U. student may be charged in MP3 case
(U-WIRE) STILLWATER, Okla.  
A 19-year-old Oklahoma State 
University student who had his 
computer seized by university 
police in September on suspicion of 
illegally distributing copyrighted 
songs must now play the waiting 
game as the Payne County District 
Attorneys office decides whether 
to file criminal charges against him.
Scott Wickberg, a first-year graph
ics design major, had been operating 
a file-sharing Web site that allowed 
others to log onto it with a password 
and download any of the 10,200 
MP3 songs in his collection.
After receiving a tip from 
Recording Industry Association of 
America officials, OSU police 
obtained a search warrant from a 
Payne County judge, and arrived on 
September 5 at Wickbergs Willham 
residence hall room and seized his 
computer containing thousands of
mostly live concert recordings.
It was really unexpected when 
they came in, said Wickbergs 
friend Jason Thompson, a first-year 
management information systems 
major, Thursday afternoon.
Thompson was in Wickbergs 
room when the police seized his 
computer. I dont really want to say 
much more  we want to keep this 
thing quiet for now, Thompson said.
Last week, Payne County Assistant 
District Attorney Charles Rogers said 
his office is still considering the 
results of an almost two-month long 
investigation by OSU police. I cant 
comment on this case because no 
charges have been filed, Rogers said.
OSU Police Chief Everett Eaton 
said university investigators
approached the case against 
Wickberg as being in violation of 
Oklahoma computer law statutes.
We put that case on the DAs desk
and were going to let the chips fall 
as they may, Eaton said Thursday.
Heralded as downloadable 
musics first sacrificial lamb in the 
November issue of Rolling Stone 
magazine, Wickberg said 
Wednesday that he is not ashamed 
of what he did and remains eager to 
tell his side of the story once the 
case against him comes to a close.
Officials said it is possible Wickberg 
could be charged with felony contrib
utory copyright infringement, a 
charge that carries a $250,000 fine 
and up to five years in prison.
On the surface, he appears to have 
violated copyright laws, said Joey 
Senat, OSU professor of journalism 
and broadcasting. What he did ... 
had a direct effect on the market 
value of the works and is a violation 
of someones intellectual property. 
Senat, who teaches a mass com
munication law course at OSU,
called portrayals of MP3 users such 
as Wickberg in Rolling Stone as lat
ter-day Robin Hoods unacceptable.
The attitude ofeverybody else is 
doing it so why cant I doesnt make 
it right under the law, he said. 
There are a lot of things Id like to 
have that I cant afford, but Im not 
going to go out and steal them.
A spokesman for the RIAA said 
Friday that although the organiza
tion cant pursue every single stu
dent violating copyright laws, it 
does employ a number of people 
who regularly monitor Web sites 
and report suspicious activities  
such as in OSUs case.
This whole online market is 
evolving and Ill admit that MP3s 
are a cool technology, said Doug 
Curry, RIAA spokesman. But peo
ple [who violate these laws] are 
essentially creating a business on 
the backs of others work.
APARTMENTS, from page A1 
will communicate further 
updates, said Timothy Michael, 
the director of Housing 
Services.
The new data and cable ser
vices will not raise the cost of liv
ing in any of the seven Oakland 
apartments. The University, 
including Housing Services, has 
been working on better connec
tion solutions for many months. 
Together, they have realized that 
a combination of factors and 
technologies that make the 
improvements possible.
Each apartment building is in a 
 different stage of development. 
Shirley is already hard-wired to 
the campus network, and it will 
remain with AT&T cable TV ser
vices for this year. There is a 
future possibility to feed CMU 
Cable TV into Shirley, but the 
installation will not occur this 
year.
Marybelle is also hard-wired to 
the campus network, but through 
an experimental copper connec
tion. Marybelle residents are 
scheduled to receive a fiber con
nection, and cable TV switched 
from AT&T to CMU services, 
within the month. The changes 
should provide either no benefits 
or slight data service improve
ments.
The Shady Oak apartment 
building was wired for data 
jacks in August of this year, and 
' it currently has AT&T cable tele1 vision services. Housing 
Services said that CMU Shady 
Oak apartment residents should 
have their data jacks activated 
with a fiber connection to the 
campus network, and should 
have their cable television 
switched from AT&T to CMU 
services, within the next month 
as well.
We were supposed to have 
new cables installed six to eight 
weeks after we moved in but 
' they said that Bell Atlantic was 
' not cooperating. Then they said 
that we would receive the instal
lation by mid-semester break,
 but once again a contract dispute 
has postponed everything.. Im 
upset because they continue to
promise installation dates and 
then break their promise 
because of another set of compli
cations, said Miles Hinderliter, 
a junior material science and 
engineering major who lives in 
Shady Oak.
Cathedral Mansions is going 
to receive an experimental tech
nology by January 1, so its ser
vices layout is still in the plan
ning phase. The University, and 
Housing Services, is mapping 
Cathedral Mansion for a wire
less interface to the campus net
work.
They said they are going to 
install the new cables next 
semester. I think they are test
ing the density of the walls now.. 
They really havent been intru
sive while doing their work, 
said Luis Cota, a junior comput
er science major who is current
ly a resident of Cathedral 
Mansions.
The experimental technology 
being employed, in collaboration 
with Lucent Technologies, begins 
with a fiber connection through 
Marybelle into Cathedral 
Mansion. Then, broadcasting 
wireless-to-wireless hubs will be 
placed in all CMU Cathedral 
Mansion apartments so that resi
dents will be able to plug their 
machines into the wireless hub 
and connect to the campus net
work. Residents of Cathedral 
Mansion should also have their 
cable TV switched from AT&T to 
CMU services within this semes
ter.
Webster, Fairfax, and 
Amberson apartment complexes 
should have DSL services for 
students by December 1. The 
University is in final negotia
tions with vendors who would 
provide DSL services to 
Carnegie Mellon apartments in 
each of the three buildings. 
Each apartment room would 
then have a hub that would sup
port up to four separate IP 
addresses for students comput
ers. CMU residents of Webster, 
Fairfax, and Amberson apart
ment complexes will continue to 
receive AT&T cable services, 
however.

---------------------------------------------------

HousingMovieChannel16
Housing 
Movie \ 
Channel \
Featured movies for NOVEMBER
SHAFT 
SCREAM 
SCARFACE 
LIAR LIAR 
WAYNE'S WORLD 
SHORT CIRCUIT 
CLEAR & PRESENT DANGER 
THE STRAIGHT STORY 
THE OUTLAW JOSEY WALES 
MIGHTY APHRODITE 
THE APARTMENT 
SNEAKERS 
BLAZING SADDLES 
SUMMER OF SAM
Movies, dates and times are available on 
CableTV Channel 3 and 
the Telecom web page - 
www.telecom.cc.cmu.edu/CableTV
And don't miss ClflUTV 
6:30 pm and 9:30 pm daily on the Housing Movie Channel.
Created and produced by CMU students for CMU students.
another service of:
Carnegie Mellon HOUSINb SERVICES
in cooperation with:
Student Dormitory Council 
Carnegie Mellon Telecom
FEDERAL LAW
PROHIBITS US FROM
REPOSSESSING THE BRAINS
OF STUDENT LOAN DEFAULTERS.
BUT OUR LOBBYIST ISON IT.
Of course your education can never be taken back But failure to repay a student.to, does 
have repercussions (it stinks to get turned down for credit cards, car loans and mortgages).
So if tilings get tight, keep your head and contact PHEAA. We can help.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
(^had^ide^rm
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street's 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: / / www. shadysideinn .com
Learn more atcan-or call 1.800.328.0355PHEAACreating Access to Education
versusGannonUniversity
1H /H Could be your111/ 11 lucky Day!
Don't miss the CMU Tartans' last football game Nov. 11th at 1pm. Come early and join Student Life for free food and raffle tickets starting at 12 pm! Come out and support the Tartans! Admission is free with your student ID!pmGttfEAWAYS
# Special VIP Seating
Food and Blankets near 
papg the 50 yard line& GiftCertificates
Cool Deals Horn area businesses& Free Movie Passes

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
PA man charged in 
dragging death
LEWISTOWN, Pa. (AP)  A man accused of 
wrapping a clothesline around the neck of a 
drinking buddy he had just met in a bar, tying 
him to the back of a pickup truck and dragging 
him several hundred feet to his death will face 
trial.
A hearing was held Thursday for Robert Freed, 
45, in the October 22 death of Joseph Land, 40. 
Freed was held without bail and charged with 
criminal homicide and aggravated assault, among 
other charges.
Freed told police he and Land had been drink
ing in Freeds truck when Land became arrogant 
and cocky and pulled a knife on him, according 
to a police affidavit.
Police said Freed hit Land, tied a clothesline 
around his neck, wrapped the other end to his 
truck and dragged him away. But the truck got 
stuck near railway tracks and was hit by a 
train.
Police responding to reports of the accident 
found Freed bleeding from the hand. Less than a 
mile away they discovered Lands partially nude 
body with the clothesline around his neck.
In a similar case in 1998, James Byrd Jr. was 
dragged to death after being chained to the back 
of a pickup truck in Jasper, Texas. Three men 
were convicted in the death; one was sentenced 
to life in prison and the others were sentenced to 
death.
Gore, Bush target key states in last days before elections
PHILADELPHIA (AP) - Rallying sup
port in the final 48 hours of the presi
dential campaign, A1 Gore charged that 
George W. Bush would squander the 
surplus on a mistaken tax cut for the 
wealthy. Bush told his troops not to 
believe the scare tactics from the other 
side.
The question on the ballot is pros
perity itself. The question on the bal
lot is what should we do with this 
prosperity, Gore told a rally Sunday 
in downtown Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
The crowd erupted into a chorus of 
Boos when Gore said his Republican 
rival would squander the surplus on a 
giant tax cut for the wealthy, and ques
tioned his commitment to seniors.  
Youre way ahead of me, Gore said.
Bush, who was spending the day in 
Florida, where the contest is tight 
although his brother is governor, dis
missed the comments. Polls show Gore 
running strongly in Florida.
Im sure youve heard of all the scare 
tactics, Bush said at an airport rally in 
West Palm Beach. Somebody who tries 
to scare people into the voting booth 
must not be very confident about his 
own positions. At another point, he 
said: They can try to scare ... but we
have a chance on November 7 to purge 
this country of the old-style polities, the 
old way of politics.
Most national polls give a slight edge 
to Bush, but Gore is running strong in 
some big battleground states and the 
two are often crossing paths as they con
test the same states.
Pennsylvania and Michigan are key to 
Gores strategy, while he hopes to steal 
an unexpected victory in Florida that 
would hurt Bush by grabbing that states
25 electoral votes.
Both candidates began the day at 
church.
This election comes down to a very 
few states, Gore said Sunday at one of 
two appearances at black churches in 
Philadelphia. I need your help on 
Tuesday.
Bush and his wife Laura attended ser
vices at St. Andrews church in 
Jacksonville. Great way to start off the 
stretch run, he told reporters before 
entering. No politics, just prayer and 
reflection.
Afterward, shaking hands with the 
Reverend Gretchen'Van Aken, she told 
Bush: Remember, the Lord himself 
chooses the right man.
Bush also prayed and had breakfast 
with the Reverend Billy Graham, who
all but endorsed him. Florida 
Governor Jeb Bush also pitched in, 
telling Sunday talk-show interviewers 
his brother will win Florida because 
he has a message that people really 
believe in.
Gores mission was to energize his 
political base with appearances before 
blacks and union leaders. His selection 
of campaign venues showed his electoral 
betting.
Gore urged black congregations to 
feel the hope and warned they have 
the most at stake. Theres a choice on 
Tuesday between two very different 
pathways into the future, he said.
The Democrat also was headed 
Sunday to Detroit, Wisconsin and Iowa.
He planned to wrap the campaign 
with 30 straight hours on the stump, 
starting with coffee early Monday with 
workers at a John Deere plant in 
Waterloo, Iowa and ending in his home
town of Carthage, Tenn., where hell vote 
Tuesday.
In between, the schedule takes him to 
St. Louis; Flint, Michigan; Miami and 
Tampa, Florida. After Florida, Bush was 
rallying the troops Monday in 
Chattanooga, Tennesse; Green Bay, 
Wisconsin; Davenport, Iowa; and 
Bentonville, Arkansas; before returning
home to Austin, Texas.
While Gore campaigned Sunday in the 
East and Midwest, running mate Joseph 
Lieberman covered the West with visits 
to New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon and 
Washington state.
He urged activists in Albuquerque, 
New Mexico, to stress the differences 
between Bush and Gore.
The difference is between night and 
day, and Al Gore is the day, Lieberman 
said. Its the last lap, and with your help 
it will be a victory lap to the White 
House.
Bush running mate Dick Cheney was 
in California and Nevada. There was 
little subtlety in the campaigns close. 
Bush was making his core argument 
that voters are ready for a change after 
eight years of controversy under 
President Clinton, while Gore was say
ing voters should keep the prosperity 
started under the administration 
going.
Under those themes, Bush argues 
that Gore cant be trusted and Gore 
warns that Bush cares only for the 
wealthy. Both are seeking to project 
an air of confidence, claiming cam
paign momentum in the races final 
hours even as they took nothing for 
granted.
Planning continues for 
same sex health benefits
HEALTH, from page Al 
laws or executive orders. The 
report overviewed the health cov
erage including statements on tol
erance, recognition, and cost.
The Human Relations 
Committee held several hearings in 
order to hear statements from 
Carnegie Mellon University faculty, 
staff, and students. We came to 
the conclusion that we ought to lis
ten to our own campus, thats the 
purpose of the hearings, said 
Davis. Two conflicting arguments, 
the concept of the traditional fami
ly in the United States and religion, 
were discussed during the hear
ings. After much debate and 
review during the hearings, the 
Faculty Senate members accepted 
the extended benpfits plan on the 
basis of dependents. In very gen
eral terms, those who receive bene
fits are dependents of the employ
ee and the simple existence of 
dependents points out the need for 
some entity to provide for them, 
states the plan.
After the initial support of the 
proposal to grant health benefits 
to same-sex couples, its imple
mentation was still far from real
ization. The next step was to hand 
the report to the executive com
mittee of the Universitys Board of 
Trustees for review. The executive 
committee would have to endorse 
the proposal, and then the entire 
Board of Trustees would have the 
opportunity to support and imple
ment the proposals, policies. If 
the policies were implemented, 
criteria would be developed to 
determine benefit qualifications. 
Criteria from other universities 
werfe considered, including 
Northwestern, MIT, and 
Princeton. They looked at qualifi
cations, such as length of time as a 
couple, owning property together, 
and the beneficiaries of wills.
After meeting on May 22 to dis
cuss the proposal, the Universitys 
Board of Trustees agreed to 
extend health benefits to domestic 
partners. Carnegie Mellon 
University defines domestic part
nership as a relationship between 
a Carnegie Mellon employee and 
another individual who meets at 
least eight of the criteria, includ
ing but not limited to, both parties 
being 18 years of age or older, nei
ther party being legally married to 
or the domestic partner of any 
other person, the parties are not 
related by blood, the relationship 
has been entered into voluntarily, 
the partners have been in a com
mitted relationship as a couple for 
at least 12 continuous months 
prior to registration, joint lease, 
deed, or mortgage agreement, 
designation by Carnegie Mellon 
employee of the other party as pri
mary beneficiary on a life insur
ance policy, and designation as 
the primary heir in the employees 
will. The domestic partners regis
tration policy was subsequently 
revised in June 2000.
 Upon registration, a domestic 
partner of a Carnegie Mellon 
employee is eligible for many ben
efits, including, medical, dental, 
and vision insurance. Other bene
fits include coverage for children, 
consolidated omnibus budget rec
onciliation act (COBRA) continua
tion coverage, health care reim
bursement account, dependent 
care reimbursement account, 
tuition benefits, employee assis
tance program, as well as many 
other benefits. Any questions or 
concerns about these domestic 
partner benefits should be direct
ed to Human Resources.
Last April, Toby Davis said, We 
proposed what we think is right 
and in the best interest of the 
University. Were hoping that 
those who are opposed will inter
pret their opposition in light of 
respect for each other and under
stand that we dont always have 
to agree and that certainly 
theyre not endorsing a lifestyle 
they dont agree with.
Now, after much debate and 
review, CMU is progressing 
towards finalizing decisions and 
details regarding health benefits 
for domestic partners.
Crime and Incident Report
10/29/00, Unauthorized 
Uniform Use  While working on 
fraternity detail CMU police 
observed a known actor exit a frater
nity wearing a CMU Security shirt 
and hat. The actor was observed 
wearing a CMU Security guard shirt 
earlier this month on Beeler Street. 
CMU police warned the actor to 
cease and desist wearing the uni
form. He was also ordered to return 
all uniforms that he had to the CMU 
police. The actor then turned over 
his hat, shirt and trousers to the 
CMU police.
10/29/00, Unauthorized 
presence  While on routine 
detail at the Mudge House CMU 
police was approached by an upset 
female. The actor said while she was 
on a weekend holiday, an unknown 
actor entered her room and removed 
an ice cream cake. Furthermore, the 
Ethernet cables in her computer and 
her roommates computer had been 
unplugged. She said that a mutual 
friend said that another friend ate 
the cake over the weekend. The vic
tim said her roommate was freaking
out and said she was going to call 
the police after they returned the 
lounge furniture they were using in 
their room. The victims roommate 
was frightened when CMU police 
arrived at her room  she stated 
that she accessed her computer 
remotely and noticed that somebody 
was using it. She also noticed her 
phone battery was dead and she 
shuddered stating that it was the 
ghost. The victim feels that some
body has a key to the room and that 
all occurrences happened while her 
door was locked.
10/31/00, Criminal Mischief
 CMU police received a call about a 
fire on the Cut near Purnell Center. 
Upon arrival CMU police discovered 
that unknown person(s) set fire to a 
bundle of corn husks in the middle of 
the Cut. Smoke and smoldering 
flames were visible upon arrival. 
CMU police activated the dry chemi
cal fire extinguisher from car number 
four to put the flames out.
11/3/00, Harrassment by 
communications  CMU police
responded to a call from the Mudge 
House for a harassment by commu
nication report. Upon arrival CMU 
police spoke with the victim who 
stated that within the span of forty 
minutes she received six phone calls 
from a male who spoke in a foreign 
language  in the background she 
could hear people laughing. During 
the first call an Asian male with a 
weak voice who changed his pitch 
often spoke in a foreign language. 
The victim listened and did not 
respond as she could not under
stand. The second call was by the 
same male and said in English, Is 
this the [unknown] chicken 
house? During the third call the 
victim answered the phone in 
French. She spoke to the caller, but 
each spoke in different languages. 
During the fourth call suite mate of 
the victim spoke to the caller in 
Mandarin Chinese, and the caller 
spoke in Cantonese Chinese  
when the suite mate switched to 
Cantonese, the caller hung up. For 
the fifth call a male inside the room 
picked up and spoke in a broken 
German accent. The caller hung up.
The final call saw the victim answer 
the phone in Spanish and the male 
caller stated what was said by the 
dog on the Taco Bell commercial. 
The victim did not know if the calls' 
were threatening. The victim 
believed that her roommate was 
part of the harassing calls  she 
said she could recognize her room
mates laugh in the background. 
CMU police suggested that the vic
tim contact Student Life.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews all reports prior to release.- Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-inChief the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.- All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Aseem Gupta
your carpets. That's because it gets von moving, which helps 
reduce some of your, risk factors for heart disease. Same goes for 
oilier regular physical activities. Call I-800.-MIA-IJSAI 
to get in on the action. Or visit Imp:// American Heart 
www.amhrt.org on the World Wide Web. Association*^^Fqtilrq He.\1 Ojoup
_________________________________________________________________a-rtSl'CVo_________
Lack of space may move Career Center to UC
CENTER, from page Al 
candidate for the new 
Career Center.
Id rather have the 
Career Center in the UC 
basement than Intel, said 
David Del Rosario, a junior 
industrial design major. 
The Career Center would 
direcdy benefit me more.
I think the Career Center 
should definitely be moved 
out of the basement in 
Warner because then maybe 
people will actually be able to 
find it and get some good use 
out of it, said Erica Israelsky, 
a junior Communication 
Design major.
The school, however, 
eventually considered the 
basement inappropriate for 
the career center. The senti
ment was that it is very diffi
cult to raise money for base
ment space and that windowless space was not ideal 
for an office that is so critical
to connecting students and 
employers, among other 
things, Murphy stated. The 
present prospective site for 
the career center is the lawn 
between the University 
bookstore and the loading 
dock.
No decisions has been 
made yet regarding meth
ods of fundraising for the 
construction of the new 
Career Center, but the 
school estimated the cost 
to be around four million 
dollars, according to 
Murphy.
Until the new career cen
ter officially begins to oper
ate, the career center will 
continue its services in its 
present location and resolve 
the lack of space for the 
Career Center by reserving 
places elsewhere in class
room buildings and the 
University Center, accord
ing to Murphy.
The University is considering moving the Career Center to the University Center due to the 
lack of space in its current location in the basement of Warner Hall.
lours of Opern 
Monday-TIm 
Friday, 8:30a

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA
... BV DELIVERY!
SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE AT
Is Reality Not 
Enough For You?
Building Virtual Worlds 2001Instructor: Randy Pausch
Open to Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors & Grad Students
ENTERTAINMENT TECHNOLOGY 05-831ART 60-502 DESIGN 51-348 DRAMA 54-364 ARCHITECTURE 48-366 HCI 05-331 / 05-831
Spaces are extremely limited. More information at:
http://www.alice.org/building.html
OXFORD
Sarah Lawrence College at Oxford offers students the unparalleled opportunity to work individually with 
Oxford scholars in private tutorials, the hallmark of an Oxford education.
Open to qualified undergraduates, it is the only visiting student program sponsored by an American college 
that gives students from other colleges access to the full range of tutors and disciplines of Oxford Universitys 
37 colleges. In addition, each student has a wide range of privileges at the University. This special 
relationship gives students access to the Universitys athletic teams, libraries, social events, as well as voting 
rights in the Student Union.
Information: Office of International Programs, Sarah Lawrence College at Oxford 
1 Mead Way, Bronxville, NY 10708-5999 / (800) 873-4752 / E-mail: slcaway@mail.slc.edu
Seasoned risk management team and mentoring program gives 
you the right instruction and support. Sponsorship for Series 7 
and 55. Join other Ivy League alums in a thriving trading envi
ronment.
Fax resume and cover letter to 212-292-0246,ATTN: Magda Kaczorowska, or e-mail resume and letter to mkaczorowska(a),wldc. com
For those with 3.6+ GPAs, a chance to trade with firms capital, 
with no capital contribution of your own.
Worldco LLC
IVY LEAGUE, 
GRADS FROM 
TOP SCHOOLS
Wanted for position of
Proprietary Equity Trader 
WORLDCOLLC.COM
Worldco LLC, a leading self-clearing trading firm, seeks 
bright determined individuals with the drive and commitment to 
become successful traders.
Housion gM vMen HMn\ Mn 
CgMh s\ Men Malua\H 
CgMno. CMe \oau hua\ 
aCCohgoH ag BMgH
uaCQo sfe 12 Ceg uMCagsM\C!
DELIVERY: SpM TO 29* DAIIY
Malua\H HMenC: Ce\-gHenC: 10:000-3:00?* 
Fnt-Cag: 10:009-5:00?*
THE ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPCH12J 687-8387 ____
HMW FMnBoC aio.eseyourCMecard
LATE at our Forbes Ave. 
location!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
Sam Student ss;sMuia
News Briefs
Negotations continue 
for campus in CA
University officials continue negotiations 
with NASA for building space at Ames 
Research Centers NASA Research Park 
where Carnegie Mellon could offer courses 
and set up an alumni relations base. 
Officials are working on a Space Act 
Agreement that would permit the University 
to formally set up a campus on federal land 
that is under NASAs control. Their hope is to 
have 15 to 20 acres. The Universitys archi
tectural team has produced some concept 
drawings of buildings on the west coast cam
pus. Also on the drawing table are plans to 
offer classes in the spring of 2001 in soft
ware engineering, and e-commerce at the 
new location.
SEED project breaks 
new ground
The Software Environment to Support 
Early Phases in Building Design (SEED) pro
ject created at the School of Architecture 
provides support for the preliminary design 
of buildings. This system allows the archi
tect to use the computer for analysis, evalu
ation and the rapid generation of architec
tural designs.
Faculty members Omer Akin, Ulrich 
Flemming, James Garrett, and Rob 
Woodbury and 16 graduate students created 
the project over the past seven years.
Architects can use the software to estimate 
costs before they put hours of work into a 
design. Designs can be modified easily, pro
viding up to date changes on an ongoing 
basis. Computer models that used to take 
hours can now be built in minutes.
No other architectural software currently 
on the market can match SEEDs ability to 
create alternative configurations and 
designs, make changes quickly and easily, 
and build three-dimensional models as 
rapidly.
The software can be adapted to include rel
evant information for specific types of build
ings. For example, it can keep track of specif
ic building codes for a health clinic as well as 
the number of examination rooms required 
per full-time physicians.
An online server is being planned to 
enable architects to explore a riety of design 
possibilities. The software will then indicate 
if they violated a code or overlooked a spec
ification in their work.
Another feature to be developed is a data
base that allows architects to store and 
retrieve different design versions and past 
designs for reuse and adaptation.
SEED-Pros next steps include securing 
funding from investors and creating an 
architect-friendly user interface. Although 
its primary use will be in the marketplace, 
SEED-Pro can have classroom applications 
as well.
Interactive Theater 
program wins awards
Carnegie Mellon was selected as a recipi
ent of the People Do Matter: Recognizing 
Innovation in Human Resouces award for 
its.Interactive Theater program.
Barbara Smith, the assistant vice presi
dent for Human Resources, Brenda Harger, 
director of interactive theater, and Ron 
Placone, the director of learning and devel
opment, accepted the award for the 
University and participated in a panel dis
cussion of employers whose human 
resource practices best demonstrate that 
the people are the main concern.
The award was presented by the 
Pennsylvania Economy League at the 
Pittsburgh Human Resources Association 
Conference on October 31. It recognizes 
employers that connect learning and busi
ness strategy, measure, and value the invest
ment in learning, leverage intellectual capi
tal and implement new approaches to train
ing and learning.
University staff receive 
Andy Awards
Four CMU staff were rewarded with 
Carnegie Mellons Andy Award on October 
11th. Established in 1995, the universitywide Andy Awards honor staff for job perfor
mance above and beyond normal job 
requirements.
Greg Armstrong won the award for dedica
tion to his job of maintaining and operating 
robots in the Learning Robots Center. Greg 
never fails to take time from whatever he is 
doing to explain in laymans terms the tech
nical and practical impact of tour research, 
said Senior Research Computer Scientist 
Reid Simmons.
Paul Fowler was also given an Andy Award 
for dedication. Nominated by Coordinator of 
Student Life Carolina Garcia for performing 
every aspect of his job with incredible dedi
cation, commitment, and integrity. Garcia 
praised Fowler for his sensibility and com
passion in working with students who are 
going through emotional, academic and per
sonal distress.
Toni Mclltrot plays a vital role in the 
chemical engineering department, said head 
Ignacio Grossman. Grossman praised her 
exceptional job performance but also said 
that her positive attitude is without doubt 
her strongest point. Elizabeth 
Schwertfuehrer, business coordinator for the 
department, called Mclltrot a counselor and 
friend responsible for making life in the 
department so nice.
Thomas Longstaff was awarded for inno
vation. The head of research and develop
ment at the CERT Coordination Center 
(CERT/CC), was nominated by SEI senior 
technical staff member Timothy Shimeall 
for his lead role in developing proactive 
Internet protection strategies.
Gordon Gordon was awarded for 
University citizenship. An 18-year veteran 
of the Development Division, Gordon was 
nominated by Jeff Bolton, the vice president 
for business and planning and the chief 
financial officer. Bolton said that Gordon 
has raised more than $200 million for the 
University over the years of his employment 
and will be responsible for about one-third 
of the total funds raised during the 
Universitys most recent $350 million capi
tal campaign.
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollipalli
& Aseem Gupta
Lehoczky moves from interim dean to permanent position
DEAN, from page A1 
tion to the Provost and University 
President Jared Cohon near the 
opening of school. Cohon and 
Kamlet concurred with the commit
tee and contacted Lehoczky shortly 
thereafter.
Kamlet said that there were a 
bunch of issues to discuss before 
Lehoczky would accept the offer. 
There were specific understandings 
for specific departments, according 
to Kamlet. He is interested in seeing 
CMU becoming a great University in a 
more well rounded sense of the term.
This is an important time for the 
University, said Lehoczky. He said 
that CMU now has the opportunity to 
take the arts and humanities to the 
forefront and make Carnegie Mellon 
into a well-rounded University. We 
need to figure out what it means to 
develop the arts and humanities 
together. Lehoczky noted the cre
ation of the Center for Humanities 
and Arts as being particularly impor
tant as a bridge between the H&SS 
and the College of Fine Arts (CFA) for 
advancing the humanities.
Dean Lehoczky would also like to 
see further alliances between H&SS 
programs and similar programs 
throughout the University. 
Economics is a place where we have 
a large number of econ faculty, said 
Lehoczky. If we can put [CMlTs] col
lective abilities together into under
graduate programs, [CMU] can have 
the most outstanding undergraduate 
programs in economics.
Using faculty and resources from 
other colleges, such as GSIA, 
Lehoczky feels that the University 
can build a single, unified under
graduate program that would be 
much stronger than the individual 
parts. While he acknowledged that 
the creation of such unified pro
grams would be politically challeng
ing, he noted that the end result 
would also include the creation of
several new majors.
Further, Lehoczky said that he 
would like to continue to build upon 
the Information Systems (IS) pro
gram. The changes in IS came about 
for two reasons, he said. The 
exploding demand was outstripping 
the service we were offering the stu
dents. We didnt have enough faculty 
in core technology courses and the 
class sizes spilled over to the 
Department of Social and Decision 
Sciences.
We live in a world where IS is a 
spine for whatever youre going to 
be, said Kamlet. As IT becomes 
more pervasive, one would like a new 
structure to liberal [arts] education. 
While the program remains one of 
H&SS most popular offerings, Kamlet 
sees no significant increase in 
resources being dedicated to the pro
gram beyond the hiring of a few new 
faculty members.
Lehoczky was also instrumental in 
the creation of the new IS program. 
IS is broader then just the social sci
ence aspect that you see in SDS, he 
said. There are many other dimen
sions that were not being carried 
out. He mentioned data mining, 
data communication, and web 
design aspects specifically.
On the graduate level, Lehoczky 
feels that that there is room for 
improvement. We can try to look at 
the whole collection of programs at 
masters level and do some integra
tion, he said adding that the IS mas
ters programs would be good candi
dates. I hope that [undergraduate] 
IS can try to capture some of those 
classes.
Addressing concerns that H&SS 
school might lose its identity due to 
its growing number of alliances 
with other colleges, Lehoczky that 
he is not so worried about that 
problem. H&SS would be in the dri
vers seat, the leader on most of 
these initiatives.
NOVEMBER 7TH  7PM-9PM 
HAMMERSCHLAG HALL, ROOM HHB103
^TENFOLD
Enjoy the comfort and convenience of traveling with 
Amtrak this holiday season.
Student Advantage Members save 15% on rail fares to over 500 destinations all year 
long, including the holidays. To join Student Advantage, call 1-877-2JOIN-SA or visit 
studentadvantage.com.
For Amtrak information and reservations, call 1-800-USA-RAIL or visit www.amtrak.com.
Not valid on peak weekday Metrollner* or Acela Express* Trains and Canadian portions of trains operated jointly by Amtrak and VIA Rail Canada, or on connecting services via non-Amtrak carriers.
0/Q If you are not a Student Advantage Member, enjoy a one
ace time savings of 10% when you present this coupon and OFF your valid student I.D.
Tickets must be purchased between November 1. 2000 and December 18, 2000, for travel from 
November 1, 2000 through January 31, 2001.
Original coupon must be surrendered at the time of purchase. 
Offer valid for select trains only  Not valid on unreserved NEC service. 
Metrollner* Acela Express? Acela Regional, Auto Train; Canadian portion of joint 
Amtrak/VIA* service, 7000 a 6000 series Thruway Services, multi-ride fare plans and any 
other discounts or promotions. Offer non-refundable after payment is made. Valid for 
Business Class and Sleeping Car upon payment of full application accommodation 
charge. Other restrictions may apply. Amtrak is a registered semce mark of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation.
TRAVEL AGENTS: access your GD5 for complete details: G/PRO/STH/P1-P8; Sabre: 
Y/PRO/STH/P1-P8. Attach coupon to auditor's coupon: if electronically reporting, attach 
to agert coupon. All Travel Agents and Amtrak Ticketing Agents please return the 
coupon to: Amtrak Customer Segmentation, 10 G Street. NE, Washington, DC 20002.
Name:
Address:
State:_Zip:_
E-mail: _
ARC # 8 554 270 0000 080 0Mention Code: H080Thougnof
What a difference 
the train makes!
The Bridge 
to Your Future.
The Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh:Education for professional careers in public and non-profit management and international affairs.
Fall Open House:
Friday 
November 10 
8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Saturday 
November 11 
9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Wesley W. Posvar Hall 
Contact:
412-648-7640 
(>spia@pitt.edu 
Sec www.gspia.pitt.edu 
for details.GSPIA
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
6 November 2000THE TARTANPage A8
Community should use services 
to maintain mental health
Carnegie Mellon students have all heard the 
saying, "School, friends, food, sleep. Pick 
three." One important variable is still missing 
from this list: emotional well-being. Carnegie 
Mellon is known for its demanding atmos
phere. While this rigorous lifestyle is fueling 
our reputation as a leading research and acad
emic institution, it is also working against us. 
This pressure is something that has helped to 
place our programs at the top of college rank
ings, but this can come at the cost of student 
dissatisfaction, depression, and even suicide. 
Therefore, it is important that the University 
does everything in its power to protect the 
emotional well-being of all of its students. It is 
time that we invest in students health as much 
as we invest in scientific research.
Counseling and Psychological Services is 
trying to do just this. Located in Morewood 
Gardens E-Tower, Room 103, they provide ser
vices such as evaluations, counseling, and 
referrals at no charge to CMU students. In 
addition, informative brochures and databas
es on topics ranging from abusive relation
ships to depression are also available at the 
departments office and website [http://synergy.as.cmu.edu/Student_Affairs/counseling]. A 
24-hour on-campus counselor can be reached 
at 268-2922.
This department should be commended for 
shouldering the weight of maintaining stu
dents emotional well-being. Still, a few sug
gestions might help Counseling Services reach 
more students in an effective manner. 
Although the services are advertised around 
campus, most people dont even realize they 
exist. The department should better publicize 
itself so that students who need their services 
know they can get them, and in it should do so 
in a way that cant be ignored. One approach 
might be to present their services as part of a 
long-term project, a kind of on-going mainte
nance for the mind. Just as there are extracur
ricular programs in sports and fitness, there 
should also be those that focus on emotional 
health. They should conduct these activities 
on the campus, not in an isolated office in 
Morewood Gardens. Taking advantage of 
these services should not have to be like taking 
a trip to the doctors office.
Consequently, another problem lies in the 
stigma attached to the name of the depart
ment. "Counseling and Psychological 
Services" may discourage students from taking 
advantage of this facility  Most students will 
not readily admit to participating in 
"Psychological Services." Building on the idea 
of a more regular presence, it might be benefi
cial to implement a title that reflects routine 
maintenance and prevention, not a last resort. 
A peer counseling system, similar to the 
Sexual Assault Advisors might also encourage 
students to seek help.
Finally, the department should establish 
stronger connections with other organizations 
such as Student Life and Student Dormitory 
Council in order to create events that take stu
dents off campus. Students often have little 
need or time to venture off campus, so consequentiy it becomes almost impossible not to 
get dragged down by stress and confined to 
the campus bubble. Students would benefit 
from knowing that there is life outside of 
school.
All too often on this campus, happiness 
gives way to stress and mental health is sacri
ficed for good grades. Students have to realize 
that they have options available to them for 
dealing with the pressures of school. Carnegie 
Mellon prides itself on its business-like quali
ties, but even corporations around the world 
have started to provide for their employees 
well-being with large-scale support groups, 
activities, and toys. Maybe its time to take a 
few lessons from the corporate world that it 
tries so hard to mirror.
Student Senate elections need 
major process improvements
Although the campus has been buzzing 
about the upcoming U.S. presidential elec
tions, our own student government election 
has come and gone with almost no notice.
Student turn-out was abysmally low, only 
seven percent of the undergraduate student 
body, and there was little to no interest in the 
election detected on campus. There are a num
ber of different measures that should be taken 
in the future to encourage student participa
tion in the election. Some of these measures 
include an increase in publicity for running 
and voting in elections and an online voting 
system.
The excitement at CMU over the upcoming 
Presidential election demonstrates that stu
dents are indeed interested in politics, and by 
no means fit the apathetic stereotype they 
have incorrectly been given. Take, for 
instance, the high turnout at the A1 Gore rally 
and the successful voter registration drive.
Many on campus had no idea who was run
ning for Student Senate, or even what it is 
exactly that Student Senate does. There are 
even those who dont know that a Student 
Senate exists on this campus. Student Senate 
has been attempting to increase its publicity, 
but perhaps it should try new methods. Other 
University student elections have political par
ties that run against each other, and students 
actually campaign'for positions. The current 
election could not fill several of the positions 
for each college, and seems that several stu
dents dont even know enough about Senate to 
make a decision about whether to run or not.
One way Student Senate could achieve 
more publicity would be to give frequent 
updates on what it is working on. Though 
Senate tries to do this now, it should attempt 
more proactive measures, including asking 
students for their opinions through surveys or 
mail notices of important issues. These mea-THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melloni Student Newspaper Since 906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
. BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager
sures would show students that Student 
Senate exists and is an important component 
of their lives at the University.
A solution to which students on this campus 
would probably react well to is an electronic 
voting system. There have been concerns 
about security and fraud related to online vot
ing, but if students can register for classes 
using Andrew authentication, they should be 
able to place votes for their student represen
tatives using similar methods.
Online voting has several benefits over 
paper voting. Currently, several students dont 
pass the front of Doherty Hall, where voting 
takes place in student elections. Therefore, the 
vote may only reflect the choice of part of the 
student population. If Senate sent out a mass 
email to all students with a link to the voting 
site, the election would be available to all stu
dents. In addition, the online system would be 
a great way of packaging all of the relevant 
information about the election, including plat
forms and candidate information.
There is evidence that suggests'that voting 
electronically could draw more people for the 
election than a paper-based method. A few 
semesters ago students gave input by email 
about whether the Wonder Boys production 
could come back to campus. The email 
received a response from 2652 students, about 
50 percent of the undergraduate student body. 
In comparison, a referendum to decide 
whether students should pay extra money for 
unlimited Port Authority bus usage referen
dum had only 10 percent turnout using a 
paper-based method.
Students are not as apathetic at this 
University as many people think. Through bet
ter elections procedures and publicity, Student 
Senate could become the voice of students 
that it is trying hard to be.
Letters to the Editor
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
ERIN SZETO, Special Projects Manager 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Asst. Science & Tech Ed. 
VINCENT CHAN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Burt Bacharach, Elaine Boland, Matt Brun,Behnam 
Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, Cassandra Knight, 
Christopher May, Lorelei Laird, Jonathan Pearce, 
Anne Ray, Erica Yamada
Scheduling problems
Editor:
I am writing in response to the article 
written about the problems with the 
scheduling office at the University 
Center. As an undergraduate, I was 
president of the Ballroom Dance club, 
(which had over 700 members at its 
peak during my time in office) and was 
member of many other organizations. 
I was constantly asking for space while 
trying to accommodate those that were 
depending on me, but I have also had 
the chance to work as the Scheduling 
Managers assistant, for one year, in 
the University Center. I am very disap
pointed with the way in which stu
dents at this University narrow-mind
edly view something that they should 
be grateful for having in the first 
place.
The Scheduling Manager does many 
positive things for the University 
Center. Mrs. Manley is excellent at 
problem solving and the management 
of time and space. I can honestly say 
that besides the mailrooms at CMU, 
there is probably not a more time con
suming and collectively taxing job at 
this University than that of the 
Universitys Scheduling Manager.
Picture it... over 150 student organiza
tions, over 90 academic offices, multi
ple outside vendors, and countless 
individual requests for only 18 spaces 
and a handful of tables! The worst 
thing is that only one professional has 
been hired to account for everyones 
needs and wants in a very limited 
space. (Student help is also very 
scarce.)
The Scheduling office takes requests 
over the phone, through email, in writ
ing, and walk in requests. They try to 
accommodate everyone in a timely 
manner. Some people get upset when 
they do not get a response the day of or 
within 24 hours ... but if you received 
on an average of 75 emails a day, con
stant phone calls, multiple handwrit
ten requests, and people stopping by 
asking for a small common group of 
space, in order to complete everything, 
you would need to take some time with 
each person.
Here are some facts about the office 
and how you can make things better for 
everyone:
1. There are only 18 spaces available in 
the UC.
2. 10,142 events have been scheduled 
already for 2000.
3 . 4,748 events have been scheduled 
for 2001.
4. If you need to reserve other rooms 
on the campus, you can contact regrooms@andrew.cmu.edu.
5. Reservations have to be made 48 
hours in advance.
6. The office is not open on weekends.7. Reservations can be made one year 
in advance.
8. This is the University Center not the Student Center!
I understand that the process can be 
frustrating, but until you walk yourself 
into the office and offer to help out 
with the hundreds of requests, you 
have no reason to complain. If you are 
the one who poorly plans and wants 
miracles to be done so you can have 
your event at the last minute, you have 
no reason to complain. If you are so 
demanding that you have to act nega
tively and unprofessionally towards 
those in a position of authority, you 
have no reason to complain.
I have been on both sides of the situ
ation. From student leader to the 
scheduling office, I know what it takes 
for the UC to run well*. Sure, mistakes 
are made, but unless you have never 
made a mistake in your life, well . . . 
then you have no reason to complain!
Andrew Pueschel 
Class of 2000
IM lets students without lives create one
Brad Grantz
It appears that complaining is a right bestowed upon the hypocritical Carnegie Mellon pupil who is almost as ungrateful as a CS major caught in a rainstorm. Given this privilege ...
I feel like Im watching soci
ety play a rousing game of 
Chutes and Ladders with
out the ladders, of course. 
Every time I think people can
not become more pathetic, my 
head spins in amazement at 
the diatribe known as human 
interaction. The latest folly in 
the relationships of man is 
courtesy of the wonders of 
new technology. If any Instant 
Messenger service has not rev
olutionized your life yet, you 
better get on the bandwagon 
headed straight to hell.
So many individuals have 
become mired in their own 
insecurity that they now find 
the need to have some type of 
human interaction 24 hours 
a day, 7 days a week, even if 
its through a computer. 
Forget about that ever-so sly 
and comedic insult to the 
CMU student every time you 
open up Mulberry (E-mail is 
my life). The Instant Message 
(IM), while a tremendously 
useful new vocabulary word, 
is the consummate method of 
communicating your inability 
to spend 10 minutes alone (I 
use the word your in this 
sentence to denote society, of 
which I am not a member.)
I like to check the away 
messages of-those folk on my 
buddy list to see what pathet
ic note they have left me as to 
their whereabouts. These 
buddies leave away mes
sages saying they are asleep, 
studying, or staring into the 
corner of a wall. Who cares
about the insignificant details 
of their uninteresting lives 
besides their mothers? 
Secondly, how lonely must 
you (you, being a member 
of the society of which I am 
not a part) be if you have to 
tell someone where you will 
be for the next 15 minutes? IM 
has become a second answer
ing machine for these saps of 
solitude. However, instead of 
some general, basic message, 
these fools inform us of their 
whereabouts and actions, 
which just happens to be 
extremely unenlightening.
If my two cents are worth 
one red penny, its a reflec
tion of how lame we are for 
even listing 
these people 
on ourbuddy 
list. Perhaps 
the ultimate, 
most beloved 
away message 
is from the 
college stu
dent who felt 
the need to 
describe her 
entire after
noon to her 
buddies.
Not only did 
she start with 
the actual 
names of the 
professors 
with whom 
she would be 
meeting, but 
she went on to describe the 
predictable outcome of the 
conference. Afterwards, she 
listed the location of her 
next appearance, in case you 
were so unable to function 
without seeing or talking to 
her, you could pay her a 
visit. Maybe she could pro
vide her unconcerned audi
ence with progress updates 
of her academic perfor
mance, eating habits, sex 
life, bowel movements, etc.
Of course, away messages
pale in comparison to the 
cream of the crop: profiles. 
There are the buddies who 
design their profile as if the 
coolest person in all of histo
ry is searching their coolest 
new friend. Thus, they pro
vide everyone with some 
hypocritical self-assessment. 
Then again, if Im really 
lucky, I get one of those char
acters whose profile gives me 
something real insightful to 
ponder about, like the true 
meaning of love. If not for 
the phenomenon of Instant 
Messenger and the complete
ly uninspiring words of my 
buddies, I might still be 
pent up in rage, unable to
an intellectual spin on a 
mind-numbing experience. 
One acquaintance, who I 
wish I never met, wrote the 
words of Agatha Christie, 
General George Patton 
(which she spelled wrong), 
and John Locke. Not only am 
I subjected to meaningless 
drabble, but I must be sub
jected to her overly preten
tious attitude. Everyone 
has this undying need to 
prove their worth, and what 
better place to do it than in 
virtual reality, where they 
can shield themselves from 
face-to-face criticism. Its a 
shame these associates have
become so
David Del Rosairo/Junior Art Staff
realize that I could be spend
ing my time in utter bliss 
because its important. 
Instead of spending time 
creatively or pondering the 
meaning of life, my bud
dies offer me with the same 
recycled song lyrics of Dave 
Matthews that everyone and 
their buddy have quoted in 
their little computer space. 
While many individuals 
choose modern-day heroes 
to copy, there are the proud 
few who feel the need to put
imprisoned in 
todays world 
that the only 
ingenuity they 
can muster is 
whether to 
change the text 
attributes or 
leave it in the 
menacing 
plain form. So 
many of these 
poor souls feel 
the need to 
revolutionize 
and alter the 
world via the 
shield of their 
computer. Just 
imagine how 
awful might it 
be if they actually heeded 
their words,
err, quotes.
. Perhaps the epitome of the Carnegie Mellon student wallowing in self-pity is the individual who is logged into Instant Messenger and Zephyr concurrently. He requests that if you are not on IM, turn off the hellish application. However, maybe its time the Bard stopped caring about what others do and addressed his own insecurities and pretenses.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
Voters pine for Browne but vote Gore to save world from Bush
One of the nice things about being a 
columnist and siding with a Presidential 
candidate is that I get the best of both 
worlds. Should Bush win, I can say, I 
told you so for every screw up he 
makes. Should Gore win, I can say, I 
picked a winner. Its almost like being 
a full service broker. I win no matter 
what the market does!
Now, truth be told, I would prefer to 
vote for Harry Browne. However, 
Pennsylvania is going to be a tight 
race. Although pulling the Libertarian 
lever might be a great way to send a 
message, I run the risk of having that 
message delivered to a man I wouldnt 
trust with a sharp knife. I think many 
Nader supporters are now starting to 
realize this, given that they pulled 
some ads in California.
What prompted my coming out, so 
to speak, in support of Gore? Lets just 
say that during the third debate, I 
rolled my eyes numerous times when 
Governor Bush spoke. I cannot believe 
that people take this man seriously.
He phrases points in obtuse Orwellian 
double-speak, provides little proof he 
can handle the complexities of the 
Presidency, and shows himself to 
either dishonest or of questionable intelli
gence.
For example, Gore directly questioned 
Bush about the Dingle-Norwood bill 
before Congress. Set aside for a moment 
the merits of this bill or any political 
points Gore may have been trying to score. 
Bush, oblivious to the bill, could only 
stammer out something vague about com
mittees and sponsors. He spouted off that 
he could get things done and would 
bring leadership to Washington. Im sure
such vague skills will help him when he 
has to deal with Congress and all the intri
cate power games that go on among com
mittees and elected representatives. 
Christian Restifo Bushs foreign policy answer was also 
rather telling. After being asked what 
would make him the best person to handle 
the on-going violence in the Middle East, 
he provided some vapid speech about havand will only further destroy the peace 
process.
Bushs handling of the issue ads run by 
the National Rifle Association (NRA) was 
also telling. Basically, the NRA has been 
running a Vote Freedom First campaign, 
saying that a vote for Bush is a vote for gun 
rights. A voter asked Bush about an ad 
from the campaign and the Brady gun bill.
Elizabeth Levin/Junior Art Staff
being a clear vision and a strategy for the 
Middle East. I reread that part of the tran
script several times, and I still cant figure 
out what his vision or strategy is. All I get 
is a bunch of nonsense, such as contradic
tory statements saying that we must make 
sure the world knows Israel is our friend 
and well stand by Israel while at the 
same time reaching out to Arab nations. 
Should Bush win the election, I hope 
someone clues him into the fact that act
ing in such a way is almost certain to be 
seen as hypocritical by many Arab nations
Bushs response? Well, he didnt run the 
ad, but it was probably one of his oppo
nents ads.
So what do we have here? One of two 
situations. Either Bush lied outright 
because he knew about the ads (and you 
thought Gore exaggerated), or he had no 
clue about the NRAs campaign. Im not 
going to discuss the merits of, or problems 
with, gun regulation, but Bushs answer 
calls into question either his honesty or, 
more likely, his knowledge of the political 
landscape.
The whole tax issue was a bottomless 
pit of complicated squabbling, but Bushs 
capabilities were plainly lacking. His 
claim that a single mother of two making 
$22,000 a year paid a higher marginal 
rate than a lawyer making $220,000 
astounded me. Last time I checked, peo
ple in the lowest tax bracket had a mar
ginal tax rate of 15%. People in the high
est bracket got hit with 39.6%. I still 
cant fathom how he comes up with 
this number.
Finally, most telling of all is Bushs 
claim that he doesnt trust govern
ment. Why, then, is he running for the 
highest office in the land? I have a 
downright hatred of Merrill Lynch, but 
you dont see me joining the ranks to 
fight my way to CEO. If Bush were a 
Libertarian (or even the Constitution 
party candidate), he could say this 
with a straight face. Harry Browne has 
no qualms about being elected 
President only to work to radically 
shrink government. Then again, you 
dont see Harry Browne acting in a 
very un-Republican manner by spon
soring all types of government pro
grams and federal meddling in educa
tion ... like George Bush.
Luckily, people are openly starting to 
question Bushs capabilities. While I 
was writing this column, my wife 
brought to my attention similar 
columns written by Sally Kalson of the Post-Gazette and Michael Kinsley of Slate 
magazine. Lets hope that more and more 
people factor these points into their deci
sion-making processes.
And regardless of the election results, 
lets hope Republicans learn to never 
again pick someone like Bush over some
one like McCain. After all, would you send 
Gomer Pyle to do Colin Powells job?
Christian M. Restifo is a first-year FlexTime MBA student at GSIA. Heres to Browne in 2004.
Campus would be great if people made attempts to get a life, shower
But, seriously...
By: Sean Mintus
Before continuing, please allow 
me to make something abundant
ly clear. Im not a mean guy. I 
have no beef. In fact, I prefer 
chicken. Most of the time, Im 
content to let others do as they 
will and simply go on living my 
morally casual, hedonistic, happy 
little life in perfect bliss. But 
every once in a while, someone 
comes along and just rubs me the 
wrong way  side-to-side instead 
of up-and-down.
But seriously, as of late there 
seem to be more and more people 
on this campus who just piss me 
the hell off. Im not a terribly 
irritable guy, but some of you 
idiots need to change your ways. 
Through a careful analysis, 
(spending the evening at several 
bars and plunking down in front 
of my computer) Ive managed to 
narrow these cads down to five 
groups. Dont get me wrong, 
there are more  many, 'many 
more. But I only have so much 
space with which to work.
New Yorkers: I have never 
been to New York, which might 
lead some to believe that I have 
no basis for criticism here. But 
thats never stopped me before, 
now has it? Daily interaction 
with people from this city has 
made me realize only that I never 
want to set foot in their stinkheap
of a town. Apparently, for those 
of you who, like myself, have 
never had the pleasure of visiting 
the city that never sleeps, New 
York is the greatest place in the 
universe. They have the best 
food, the best bars, the best 
sports franchises, the best build
ings, the best women (for only 50 
bucks a pop), and are basically 
the best thing since sliced bread. 
Of course, they invented sliced 
bread, dough, knives, and the 
baker. Essentially, the CMU New 
Yorker contingent, only three of 
which it turns out actually live 
within the city, strike me as a 
sub-section of the population 
that needs to get the hell over 
itself, especially because nobody 
in Pittsburgh cares about you or 
your apple.
Petitioners: Despite appar
ent public perception, the last 
thing that I want to encounter as 
I sleepily stumble my way across 
campus in a desperate and frivo
lous attempt to not fail out of this 
godforsaken place is a bunch of 
vagrants with signs and flyers 
who try to sucker me into sympa
thizing with their objectives. 
Picture this. Its 9 am. I have just 
woken up. from four hours of 
sleep (a weekly high) and left the 
warmth and comfort of my bed in 
order to listen to some professor 
spout poor interpretations of 
archaic literature. The last, and I 
am serious when I say the last 
thing, I care about right now is
your rainforest or your Ralph 
Nader or your Greek philan
thropy efforts. Go away and 
come back when Im done being 
hung over.
The Hub Staff: I often won
der whether or not the Hub is in 
actuality a joint experiment by 
the Psychology and Statistics 
departments meant to gauge just 
how incredibly inept, inefficient, 
and intellectually vacant a group 
of people can be. The last time 
that I worked up the gumption to 
talk to anyone at the Hub, it was 
because, after checking my stu
dent account online, I became 
aware that I owed the University 
in excess of seventy thousand 
dollars. At first, I figured it was 
just another tuition hike. 
However, after realizing that I 
was incorrect in this assessment, 
I decided to head on over to the 
one stop shop for student needs 
and iron out this little dilemma. 
The long and short of it was that 
never before in my life had I pos
sessed the earnest desire to tie 
someone up, throw them in the 
trunk of my car, drive to a seclud
ed area, and disembowel them 
with a spoon. Id like to thank 
the Hub for helping me realize 
just how immoral and depraved I 
can be at times.
Smelly People: Under nor
mal circumstances, I am pretty 
much the worlds biggest advo
cate of personal freedom. You do
what you want and Ill do what I 
want and well all be perfectly 
blithe in our respective ignorant 
realms. However, I do not think 
that among the various rights 
awarded by this intrinsic autono
my is the privilege of smelling
need to get drunk and laid imme
diately. You all know who Im 
talking about. These are the 
same people who carry pi out to 
four million places on March 
14th in homage to their favorite 
number. These are the people
Most of the time, Im content to let 
others do as they will and simply go 
on living my... hedonistic, happy 
little life in bliss.
like four year old mayonnaise 
under a blistering Arizona sun. 
Hear me now, stinky people, I will buy you a bar of soap. In fact, 
I propose that our fine University 
allot funds for the purchase of 
various cleaning agents and con
struction of outdoor shower 
stalls, because I pray to my own 
personal God that none of these 
filthy mongrels would ever taint 
an indoor plumbing system with 
their muck. Are you listening, 
Dean Murphy?
Authors note: The placing of tools next to smelly people was not at all accidental. Please leave the cluster and bathe. Now.
Tools: Contained within the 
vernacular of my social circle and 
perhaps in others as well is a 
term that characterizes people 
who, in my humble opinion,
who have been known to become 
sexually aroused while integrat
ing a function or multiplying 
matrices. These people are 
tools. Actually, I think that I 
could learn to tolerate their pres
ence if not for their recurring 
comments regarding the validity 
and difficulty of my chosen 
course of study. You have no idea 
how deeply it wounds me to 
know that the people at this 
University who consider them
selves cool are the ones who can 
code. They frighten me and they 
need to go. Sadly, given the 
social and academic surround
ings into which I have inserted 
myself, there seems to be little 
hope here.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore professional and creative writing major. And you know what? He doesnt like you much, either.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since l$o6 
SENIOR STAFF
Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS 
Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Clinton 
Brownley, Cliff Chien, Krissy Choi, 
Michael Cook, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, 
Frank J. Fleming, Ryan Friedman, 
Debra Halpern, LaRita Hamilton, 
Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, 
Damian Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, 
Jodi Poniewaz, Srinivas Pullela, 
Jennifer Resick, Christian Restifo, 
Surya Singh, Lynn Tao, Cory Tong, 
Preston Treichel
ART
Matthew Blum, Lindsay Clark, Jamie 
Divine, Adam Grossi, Reagan Heller, 
Gabriel Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, James Kenney, Neal 
Martin, Jason Slater
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers 
Anthony DAuria, Anjanelle Delancey, 
Emily Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, 
Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew 
Trentacoste
DARKROOM
Eric Barker
PRODUCTION ,
Eve Chen, John Davin, Serena Lam; 
Douglas Yung
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, 
Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma 
Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy 
Baker, Avinash Baliga, Kevin Burns, 
Yang Cai, Thomas Capasso, Brad 
Cohen, Dave del Rosario, Dave 
DiFilippo, Aseem Garg, Ryan Hamilton, 
Melissa Horne, John Hursh, Lirona 
Katzir, Christopher Kim, Anish Kumar; 
Elizabeth Levin, Ann Lewis, To Han Lu, 
Charles Martin, Andrew McKeon, Julia 
Myers, Rob Pinkerton, Paul Richelmi, 
Jennifer Schaupp, Danny A. Silitonga, 
Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina 
Small, Vivek Sridharan, Yinglan Tan, 
Tifanie Tiberio, Sean Waters, Daniel 
Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem'bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
Presidential races, Student Senate races, politics is in the air! To find out if stu
dents pay attention to the elections going on at their own campus, we asked:
Do you care about Student Senate elections?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Leigh Anne Sedor
First-year student 
MCS undecided
Dana Piech
Sophomore 
Material Science
Saeed Kalafchi
Senior
Business Administration
John Degonova
Sophomore 
Civil Engineering
Jeff Allen
Junior
Mechanical Engineering
I care. I voted. I think its important Yes. We need responsible people to No, I remember them from freshI voted. I voted for the kid standing No, I dont think that they do anythat students have a say in what goes make good financial and organizationman year. I was in Senate, but I didnt next to me because he needed two thing. I dont know how to find out
on around this school. al decisions about our campus. find it very interesting. votes to run. what happens at the meetings.

---------------------------------------------------

'sm
wmAdvisors
Goldman, Sachs & Co.Fixed Income, Currency & Commodities Information Session Monday, November 6th, 2000 7:30pm GSIA Grand Room 
All Students and Majors Welcome
MINDS. WIDE OPEN? www.gs.oom
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, slate or local laws.  2000 Goldman. Sachs & Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000AilOpening of pro basketball season 
holds little interest for hoops fans
NBA, from page A12 
enjoy watching Kevin Garnett play 
and Wally Szczerbiak is my hero, so 
I like the team.
My point is that since there is 
now no one player who every bas
ketball fan must see play; people
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
are simply losing interest. There 
are no real rivalries, and no real 
reason to watch any regular season 
game. It doesnt help that there are 
82 of them, either. The strike of 
two seasons ago limited play to 50 
games, which turned out to actual
Meet the PEOPLE of
www.eatonjobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical Sales
ly not be that bad. There was a 
heightened intensity level since 
teams did not have as large of a 
margin of error to work with.
Another problem compound
ing the length of the season is the 
number of teams that make the 
playoffs. Sixteen teams, over half 
of the league total, make it to the 
postseason. This is why I say that 
the regular season doesnt mean 
anything.
Before the season even begins, 
it is known that teams like the 
L.A. Clippers, Golden State 
Warriors, Washington Wizards, 
Vancouver Grizzlies, and Chicago 
Bulls have no chance. Their fans 
have no reason to even get 
involved, and those of the other 
teams can just wait until the play
offs.
I know I have painted a pretty 
bleak picture of the NBA, por
traying it as a player-led league 
with no leading figure, tearrfs 
without a following, and a mean
ingless season that lasts way/too 
long. However, this doesnt mean 
that there is no hope.
Basketball is still one of the 
most exciting sports to watch, 
and the NBA plays it at the high
est level. The Lakers are begin
ning to look like they might 
develop into the next dynasty, 
providing a team for Los Angeles 
to love and for everyone else to 
hate. The young stars such as 
Garnett, Bryant/ and McGrady 
are starting to mature and build 
their skill levels.
If now the league would only 
chop about 20 games off of the 
schedule and reduce the number 
of teams making the playoffs to 
eight or twelve, I might regain 
interest. Until then, though, I 
think Ill be content waiting for 
the college season to get my 
hoops fix.
In penalty-filled, contest, Carnegie 
Mellon hockey beats Slippery Rock
The Hockey Report
by Erin Lucas
If you enjoy watching overt dis
plays of male aggression, then you 
should have been at the Carnegie 
Mellon ice hockey game on 
Saturday night. Within the course 
of a fifty-one minute hockey game, 
sixty minutes worth of penalties 
were given. Yes, it is possible.
Before the game, the referee 
came to visit me in the scorers box. 
Apparently, he was very concerned 
about my abilities to operate the 
ori/off switch on the timer. I can 
only presume that my status as a 
woman led him to believe I did not 
1 'maintain the cognitive abilities to 
handle such a complex task. After 
! assuring him that my many years of 
' hockey timer experience indeed 
| qualified me to handle the on/off 
switch, he left the box. I know he 
was not convinced.
The game was against Slippery 
Rock and began to get interesting in 
the second period. Rob Ready 
scored a goal less than a minute 
into the second, eliciting loud 
cheers from the twelve spectators in 
the stands.
With less than four minutes 
remaining, Carnegie Mellon scored 
four goals in a row. Constantine 
Davides, Rob Ready, Cliff 
Brangwynne and Jamie Bretz each 
put his name on one. The scoring 
frenzy was pretty fun to watch but 
the crowd seemed to enjoy the 
brawl that broke out after the end 
of the period much more.
All I could see was a heap of play
ers on the ice somehow still manag
ing to repeatedly punch one anoth
er. One avid fan was even pounding 
on the glass so hard it fell through 
to the ice. It is not as cool as it 
sounds, unfortunately. Breathing 
on that glass could cause the same 
thing to happen.
Wanna START
something?
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates tojoin our ranks. Hey! That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? Sweet!
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't wait!
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to www.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
The BEST company you know nothing about.
SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE
Explore the rigor and excitement of classical training in acting.
Program Highlights
 A faculty comprised of Britains most 
distinguished actors and directors
 Master Classes
 Private tutorials with faculty
 Weekly trips to London stage 
productions
 Participation in staged productions
 Choice of semester or full-year programs
Open to college juniors and seniors in 
good academic standing.
Contact
Officc of International Programs 
Sarah Lawrence College
1 Mead Way, Bronxville, New York 10708-5999 
(800) 873-4752 / E-mail: slcaway@mail.slc.edu
[HOBO DY,D0ES B REAKS BETTER 1
OF SARAH LAWRIvNCK COLLKGK 
AND THE
BRITISH AM KRI CAN DRAMA ACADEMY
During the third period, Slippery 
Rock was able to gain some ground. 
Regardless, the story of the period 
was the individual fights between 
players that broke out every two 
minutes. Cliff Brangwynne even got 
a ten-minute misconduct for throw
ing some guy on the ice and punch
ing him in the head.
CMU sealed its victory over 
Slippery Rock with seventeen sec
onds left in the game when Jamie . 
Bretz got his second goal, making 
the score 6-3.1 must admit I didnt 
see it, but I am sure it was beautiful.
In one fifty-one 
minute hockey 
game, sixty minutes 
worth of penalties 
were given.
I was totally entranced by the 
jacket of the Slippery Rock coach. It 
was leather with Indian beading 
and layers of foot-long fringe. I was 
in awe of his fashion valor. It is not 
often that a grown man uses the 
forum of a Western Pennsylvania 
sports venue to express himself 
through his wardrobe. I seem to be 
digressing.
With this victory the Tartans 
league record now stands at 2-1. 
The next home game is not until 
November 18, against Washington 
and Jefferson. Come down to 
Neville Arena and watch the game. 
Or come down to Neville Arena to 
watch the rink decompose, which is 
very fun in itself as well.
National Hockey League
This week was so horrible in the 
NHL, I am almost tempted not to 
comment on it.
The Penguins lost the majority of
their games while the Rangers won 
most of theirs.
This is wrong. God put the 
Rangers on the planet to lose often 
and badly. My hatred for the 
Rangers is completely justified. You 
see, I come from the small market 
city of. Pittsburgh, where my sports 
teams are forced to compete with 
franchises that have limitless 
money to spend on players.
As a result, the once great Pirates 
are now just a stop on the pissing 
ground for several wealthy MLB 
teams. Baseball is no longer fun for 
me since I know it will be the same 
two to three teams every year in 
contention.
Therefore, it warms my heart to 
see the Rangers, with their infinite
ly high budget, losing constantly. I 
knew there would be a side effect 
bestowed upon NYC fans for 
George Steinbrenners unholy 
alliance with Satan. I refuse to 
worry yet about the Rangers win
ning streak. Every now and again 
evil gains some momentum to keep 
the story interesting.
Moving on, the Penguins have 
not been looking too great lately. 
They always seem to start off the 
season slowly; maybe it is to make 
the end-of-the-season playoff run 
all the more dramatic. Although it 
was painful to watch the 9-0 loss to 
the Devils last weekend, at least the 
Penguins lost in style as they sport
ed their new old-school jerseys. 
Jagr looked particularly hot in it. 
Every since he cut that euro-trash 
mullet last summer I have devel
oped a hankering for 
Czechoslovakian men.
Erin Lucas would love to discuss this further, but must stop her hockey rant until next time, as her roommates fish had hundreds of babies and the parents are now eating them. She must stop the carnage.
classified
For Sale
FLOWERS for romance, birthday, 
platonic, formals and more ... make 
someone smile. Group discounts. 
ALEX'S FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. 687- 
4128. Call before noon for same 
day delivery, www.alexsflowers.com
Opportunities
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Best 
Prices Guaranteed! Cancn,
Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida. Sell 
Trips, Earn cash & Go Free! Now 
hiring Campus Reps. 1-800-234- 
7007 endlesssummertours.com
Earn 51,000 - S2,000 this quarter
with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. No sales 
required. Fundraising dates are fill
ing quickly, so call today! Contact 
Campusfundraiser.com at 888-923- 
3238, or visit www.campusfundraisers.com.
Fantasia Fresh juice Company is 
looking for PT product samplers 
who have a fun, energetic attitude,
demo/retail experience needed. 
Need a car. Weekday and weekend 
hours-510/hr. Call Bob 724-387- 
2444
Happily married couple in our late 
20s are waiting the blessing of our 
first child through adoption. 
Michele and Les toll free: 1-866- 
443-8580
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728
Copeland Shadyside. Now Hiring 
kitchen/counter positions. Reliable 
25 hr minimum. Call 412-682- 
3354. Ask for Scott, David, or 
sGeoffrey.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
1.800.SUNCHASE
Egg Donor Needed
$25,000 Compensation
We are a loving, infertile 
couple hoping to find a 
compassionate woman to 
help us have a baby.
We're looking for a 
healthy, intelligent college 
student or college grad, 
age 21-33, with blue eyes 
and blonde or light brown 
hair. Your gift of life would 
bring great joy.
Please contact us through 
our representative at 
1.800.776.7680.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
6 November 2000THE TARTANPage A13
NBAs new 
season has 
no intrigue
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
In case anyone failed to notice, 
the NBA season began this past 
week. That means that you should 
mark your calendars for about 
eight months from now, when the 
games really matter.
I love basketball, but for some 
reason I cant get excited about 
watching it at the professional 
level. I can stay up until two in the 
morning on a Hiesday night watch
ing Fresno State-BYU on ESPN2, 
but until playoff time comes, I 
sometimes forget that the NBA 
even exists.
Someone once said that college 
athletics are about the name on the 
front of the jersey, while profes
sional athletics are about the name 
on the back. This is especially true 
in the NBA. When the league was 
approaching failure in the late 70s 
and early 80s, Larry Bird and 
Magic Johnson arrived to bring it 
forth from the abyss. These two 
enormously popular players passed 
the torch on to Michael Jordan, 
who took the sport of basketball to 
new heights. The league took full 
advantage of this transcendent tal
ent, and Jordan became the image 
everyone associated with the NBA.
Since Jordan retired two seasons 
ago, the league has been left with a 
problem. There has been no one 
combining the talent and charisma 
of Jordan to take over the mantle of 
ambassador for the sport. Players 
such as Vince Carter, Kobe Bryant, 
Allen Iverson, and Kevin Garnett all 
have the talent to possibly take on 
such a position, but are still too 
young. Older stars such as Shaq, 
Grant Hill, Jason Kidd and Alonzo 
Mourning take care of business on 
the court but dont have the com
mercial savvy of Jordan.
This would not be a problem if 
the NBA hadnt relied on marketing 
individuals to such a great extent. 
Maybe its just because I grew up in 
Cincinnati and now live in 
Pittsburgh, cities without NBA 
teams, but I have never met some
one who is a die hard fan of a pro 
basketball team. A lot of people 
claimed to be Chicago Bulls fans, 
qut now that Jordan has retired 
tfliey suddenly love the Lakers. 
Personally, my favorite team is the 
lyiinnesota Timberwolves. I have 
no affiliation with the city, but I 
See NBA, page All
Tartan swim teams place 1st and 2nd in Rochester
At the Rochester Relays over the weekend, CMU men placed in first, and the 
back with a first-place finish for the 
men and a second-place finish for 
the women.
The Tartan men were bolstered 
by victories in all nine events, six of 
which also resulted in meet records. 
The men had record-breaking per
formances in the 400-yard medley, 
300 butterfly, 300 individual med
ley, 300 backstroke, 200 medley, 
and 200 freestyle relays. The 
strength of these victories empowby Mike CookStaffwriter
On Saturday, CMUs swim teams 
faced a relay-style meet for the first 
and only time this season, and 
emerged successful and reinvigo
rated. After two straight weeks of 
intense dual meet competition, the 
Tartan swimmers rode to Rochester 
with fun on their minds and rode
' fil photo by Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
women in second.
ered 'the Tartans to amass 194 
points in defeating the Rochester 
Institute of Technology, which man
aged second place with 157 points. 
However, 'the Tartan women were 
not able to do the same as they were 
edged out by Ithacas women by 17 
points, 188-171.
Ithaca has always been our main 
competition at the Rochester 
Relays, said senior co-captain and 
Ithaca native Amy Reckdenwald,
and while I am never satisfied with 
second, I am very pleased with the 
way everyone swam.
Coach David Belowich takes a 
more utilitarian view of the 
Rochester Relays. Having fun at a 
meet is always important, but this 
is also a good opportunity to work 
on relay exchanges, said Belowich. 
Its always nice to make them 
change the record board a few 
times, too.
All eyes were on the collapsing 
record board as six meet records 
fell to the Tartan men, and two to 
the Tartan women.
This has always been a much 
more relaxed meet than the rest of 
our season, said mens senior co
captain George Heidinger. I think 
thats why we always swim fast 
here.
Heidinger, along with Landon 
Fears and Brian Jucha were winners 
of the 300-yard fly relay with a win
ning time of 2:40.40. Heidinger 
was joined by first-year swimmer 
Brian McCarthy and Steve Chiou as 
well as Matt Shewchuk to win the 
400 medley relay with a time of 
3:36.25. Shewchuk and Heidinger, 
along with Sean Belowich and 
Jason Striner, were winners in the 
200 medley. Heidingers other vic
tory came in the 8x25 relay, to 
round out the Tartan domination.
The women scored their first vic
tory in the 200 free relay. The team 
of Erin Andrew, Corey Ginsberg, 
Mei-Lan Ho-Walker, and Julie Tseng 
swam the event in a record time iof 
1:42.03. Ginsberg, a first-year phi
losophy major, felt that the record 
was a great obstacle to overcome.
I think that now that we have 
this first record on the board, the 
floodgates should be opened for 
more records in the future, said 
Ginsberg. The women also swam to 
a record breaking time in the 8x25 
relay, a great way to finish off the 
meet.
The attitude of the Tartans is 
relaxed but confident going to their 
biggest test of the regular season as 
they will be taking on the best the 
conference has to offer. The Tartans 
will be hosting New York University, 
Emory,-and Johns Hopkins in a twoday, four-session invitational.
Senior co-captain Jason Striner is 
excited about the opportunity, say
ing, I think that the meet next 
weekend will be a great measuring 
stick. We will get' an opportunity to 
see exactly what our UAA competi
tion will be like and we will have an 
opportunity to compete in really 
competitive races.
The way that the Tartan men and 
women competed at Rochester 
bodes well for the quality of the per
formance that the Tartan swimmers 
put in the water next weekend.
Wolverines too much to handle in 14-10 Tartan loss
by Preston TreichelStaffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon football team knew 
that it had a big task ahead of itself going into 
last Saturdays game against the Grove City 
Wolverines.
Grove Citys running back, R.J. Bowers, 
had broken the national college record for all 
divisions in all-time rushing yards the previ
ous week against Bethany College, a school 
that defeated CMU in week three, 27-16.
Against CMU, Bowers was shooting to sur
pass the 7,000 mark, as well as the NCAA 
scoring record.
You can only try and contain a player like 
Bowers, said Tartan head coach Rich 
Lackner. We wanted to retain possession 
and have the ball for 35 or 36 minutes to 
keep it away from Bowers.
Bowers was definitely a force that the 
Tartan defense knew it was going to have to 
key in on stopping.
With senior wide receiver Mike McLaughlin 
out with a sprained medial collateral liga
ment, first-year running back Ricardo Clarke 
suffering from a knee injury, and junior quar
terback Eric Zimpfer?s status questionable 
due to a slightly separated shoulder, that only 
added to the challenges this young CMU team
faced. The good news was that Zimpfer was 
able to play come game time.
Zimpfer wasnt 100 percent, but he gave it 
a go, said Lackner. He only practiced for a 
day and a half before the game.
Zimpfer finished the game with 76 yards 
rushing on 20 attempts and was four of nine 
passing attempts for 53 yards.
The Tartans began the game with a sour 
start. The Wolverines marched right down 
the field on the first possession of the game, 
and scored on a 10-yard option from quarter
back Steve Lacinski to Bowers. It was on this 
drive, his second carry of the afternoon, 
when Bowers eclipsed the 7,000-yard career 
rushing mark.
On the flip side of the ball, the CMU - 
offense got ready to try and answer Grove 
Citys quick strike. Unfortunately, the effort 
failed when the usually reliable first-year 
Mike Palmer missed a 26-yard field goal 
attempt.
After the first two possessions, it appeared 
as though it was going to be a long game for 
the Tartans and their fans. This assumption 
was proved false, however, on the next 
defensive stand. The defense came up big 
with a three-and-out stick.
This led to the next drive when the Tartans 
hit pay dirt. The score came on a hardnosed 
run by sophomore Andrew Garrod. He jaunt
ed 30 yards to knot the game at seven apiece. 
Garrod continued his stellar running 
throughout the game and ended with 148 
yards on 21 carries, and gave what was per
haps the most impressive running perfor
mance the Tartans have witnessed all year.
The first half finished with the score tied, 
and the defense doing a phenomenal job 
controlling Bowers running attack. The 
swarming defense held Bowers to 50 yards 
on 17 carries in the first half, and 128 yards 
on 36 carries for the game, which was more 
than satisfactory considering his ability. 
Senior linebacker Nick Zitelli led the CMU 
defense with 14 tot^l tackles.
The Tartans came out of the locker room 
-with a lot of firA in the second half. 
Receiving the kickoff,^ they barreled down 
the field with the help of sophomore fullback 
Adam Urbanczyk. He 'showed more than 
short yardage abilities When he broke a run . 
for 51 yards, putting\the Tartans in 
Wolverine territory. Urbanczyk had 69 yards 
on only seven carries.
The CMU running game looked perhaps 
the best it ever has this year.\The offense 
amassed 333 total yards on the ground, cred
ited, of course, to the powerful play of the 
CMU offensive line.
The offensive line was able to run-block 
very well, said Lackner.
After the Wolverines forced CMU to a 
fourth down, booted a 22-yard field goal that 
put the Tartans up 10-7. All the Tartans 
needed to do was hold off the Wolverines for 
the rest of the half. Of course, that is always 
easier said than done.
After a fourth quarter interception thrown 
by Zimpfer, Grove City lucked out on their 
biggest offensive play of the afternoon. A 
flea-flicker-turned-run by Lascinski on third 
down moved Grove City into Tartan territory. 
Bowers capped off the drive at the 5:57 mark 
with a six-yard scamper to make the score 
14-10.
This proved to be too much for the Tartans, 
as they tried to put together one last effort. 
The Tartans once again experienced redzone problems. A holding call followed by a 
sack of Zimpfer gave the Tartans a fourth and 
17. On the next play, they were able to con
vert a pass from Zimpfer to junior receiver 
Matt Saneholtz, but the reception came up 
one yard short of a first down. The 
Wolverines finished the game by running out 
the remaining time.
This season is the first since 1988 that the 
Tartan squad has lost four games in a season. 
In addition, if the Tartans do not win next 
week against Division II Gannon University, 
their streak of 25 consecutive winning-seasons will be broken.
Sports Shorts
Volleyball team 
gets 5th in UAA
The womens volleyball team 
closed out its season in disap
pointing fashion last weekend at 
the University Athletic 
Association Championships, host
ed by Emory University in 
Atlanta, Georgia.
In pool play, the Tartans lost a 
close match to New York 
University, 3-1. In each of the 
three sets that CMU lost, they 
scored at least 12 points. The 
final score was 15-12, 9-15, 
15-13, 15-13, in favor of New 
York.
In the second match, the 
Tartans defeated Johns Hopkins 
in three close sets, 15-13, 17-15, 
15-8. According to head coach 
Julie Webb, the players were 
merely emotionally and physical
ly tired from the match with rivals 
NYU  not to mention the stren
uous season that had just been 
completed with a 20-9 record.
Carnegie Mellon then suffered 
a difficult loss to Case Western 
Reserve, going down in straight 
sets, 10-15, 11-15, and 6-15. In 
the match for fifth place against 
Brandeis, the Tartans pulled off 
the victory in three sets, 15-1,
15-7, and 17-15.
Past UAA-Players of the Week 
Lauren Schmidt and Sara 
Lechleitner contributed greatly to 
the Tartans cause over the week
end.
Schmidt, a sophomore outside 
hitter, had 192 kills, with a .334 
hitting percentage, 200 digs, and 
30 total blocks (14 solo, 16 assist
ed). Schmidt was named to the 
All-UAA First Team.
Lechleitner, a junior middle hit
ter, was named to the All-UAA 
Second Team. She recorded 156 
kills, a .405 hitting percentage, 
and 64 total blocks (23 solo, 41 
assisted).
Tartans soccer 
seasons finished
Carnegie Mellons soccer teams 
have finished their regular sea
sons. The men finished its season 
with an overall record of 14-2 
(6-1 in the UAA), and captured 
the UAA conference.
The teams two losses came 
against Mt. Union in the third 
game of the season. The Tartans 
lost 4-1, giving up four of the 
total 11 goals they allowed over 
the course of the entire season. 
Their second loss came in over
time Brandeis, 1-0. The Brandeis 
game was the Tartans only UAA 
loss as well.
This past Tuesday, the Tartans 
won their last game of the season,
3-1, at home against Washington 
and Jefferson.
The strong play of junior goal
keeper Tom Dougherty in the past 
week earned him UAA player of 
the week honors for mens soccer. 
Dougherty recorded his ninth 
shutout of the year in the Tartans
1-0 victory over Grove City on 
October 25. The nine shutouts 
are a school record.
Three days later, on the 28th, 
Dougherty helped the Tartans 
defeat Case Western Reserve in 
their final UAA game to clinch the
UAA title and advance to the 
NCAA Division III Championship 
tournament. Dougherty made 
four saves in the 42 win.
The team is in preparations for 
the NCAA tournament, which will 
be held over the next three weeks 
at various sites.
The womens soccer team fin
ished its season at 6-12, losing 
their final game to UAA competi
tor Case Western Reserve. The 
loss put the teams UAA record at 
0-8, which is not reflective of the 
effort the women put in against 
their UAA rivals. Four of the eight 
games were 1-0 decisions.
Outside of their conference, the 
Tartans were 6-4, playing very 
well at times, but at other times 
not able to capitalize on key 
opportunities. There was a fine 
line between a winning record 
and losing record for this 
womens soccer team.
Tartan men look 
to season-opener
The mens basketball team has 
been practicing hard for the past 
two weeks, learning to work a 
roster that includes eight new 
faces and returning players from 
last seasons squad, including 
junior guard Dom Ionadi, sopho
more center Ross Freeman, and 
sophomore point guard Marc 
Tata.
Were trying to find our way 
from a leadership standpoint... 
said head coach Tony Wingen. 
There hasnt been a clear-cut 
leaderto step forward yet.
The team, which has five
juniors and no seniors, is young, 
but looks to be more offensively 
charged this year than in the past 
several years.
Wingen is looking to Ionadi, 
who earned All-UAA honorable 
mentions last year and who 
should be a very dangeorus out
side shooter, to perform strong 
offensively. Wingen hopes 
Freeman, also an honorable men
tion recipient, will assume some 
of the offensive load as well.
Among the first-year players, 
Wingen says point guard Vince 
Bartozzi, post-man Russel 
Borum, small forward Matt Kaitz, 
and shooting guard Brian
McKinney look to be potential 
contributers.
As a group, these young play
ers have helped to make our prac
tices more competitive, and as a 
result get us better prepared 
going into the season, said 
Wingen.
Wingen also noted that in prac
tices, the teams defense is not 
quite where it should be. The 
Tartans do have two weeks to get 
in shape, and it looks to be 
promising.
Were making steady 
progress, said Wingen. The 
guys are working hard.
The team will kick off the sea
son next weekend with the West 
Penn Clssic. The Tartans are play 
Grove City at Washington and 
Jefferson on Friday, November 17. 
The nex day, the Tartans wil face 
Washington and Jefferson at 
Allegheny.
Compiled by 
Christopher Chung
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Womens President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Monday, November 6 
Volleyball playoffs begin.
Sunday, November 12  Soccer 
playoffs begin
Monday, November 13  Threeperson volleyball begins. 
Wednesday, November 15  IM 
Board Meeting at 12:30 pm in 
Gym Conference Room
Sports in Season
Bowling  The intramural 
Bowling playoffs began last night. 
The semifinals and finals will be 
held Sunday, November 19 at the 
PAA.
Water Polo  Intramural Water 
Polo is being played at the UC 
Pool. Games are played Monday 
and Wednesday evenings starting 
at 9 pm. No warming up while 
people are participating in recre
ational swim.
Racquetball  Matches finish up 
next Tuesday. Playoffs will start 
on Wednesday, November 15.
Brackets will be available at noon 
on the 15th.
Soccer  The season finishes this 
Thursday night. The playoffs will 
begin on Sunday, November 12. 
Brackets will be available Friday 
at noon.
Volleyball The playoffs will 
begin tonight and the finals will 
be held Thursday at the UC.
Foosball  The regular season 
ended yesterday. Please have all 
scores to the IM Office no later 
than midnight Monday, 
November 6. Playoffs will begin 
next week.
Chess  Playoffs are out. Please 
play matches and report scores to 
the IM Office.
Table Tennis, Call Pool, Spades, 
and Darts  Schedules are out. 
Please play all games as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM Office.
Three-person volleyball  The 
schedules are out. This year the 
format has changed to a double 
elimination tournament. Brackets 
are available at the IM Office.
All Sports Total through 
Tennis
Beta - 800 
PiKA-775 
Kappa Sigma - 650 
Mens Basketball - 384
Women
Tartan Hoopers -1200 
F.T.H. - 617 
Pioneers - 200
All email rosters must be submitted |
24 hours prior to the deadline.

---------------------------------------------------

Arts L'
6 November 2000THE TARTANSection B
Greek Week mixes fun-filled events with philanthopic services to community
by Andy FrancisCo-Arts and Living Editor
Carnegie Mellons fraternities and 
sororities are generally a competitive 
lot, battling each other in intramurals, 
Greek Sing, and of course, Buggy and 
Booth. Last week, though, the Greek 
organizations competed in a friendlier 
manner, trying to top each other during 
a seven-day series of events billed as 
Greek Week. Designed both to promote 
interfraternity relations arid reaffirm 
the Greeks commitment to philanthropy 
and community service, Greek Week 
mixed fun-filled events such as the 
Bachelor/Bachelorette Auction in with 
more service-oriented projects like mak
ing sandwiches for the homeless.
The main focus of the Greek Week 
events was to raise money for charitable 
organizations, but the participants also 
engaged in a sort of competition where 
they were awarded points based on their 
participation in each days function. The 
week kicked off with Monday nights 
Opening Ceremonies, held on the CFA 
lawn. Representatives from all the fra
ternities and sororities came sporting 
their houses letters, since organizations 
could earn points if they boasted a large 
enough turnout. Several of the events let 
the houses show off their athletic skills, 
including the first major event, the 
Greek BBQ and Olympics. These games 
took place on Tuesday, and involved the 
organizations competing against each 
other in relay races, tug-of-war, human
pyramid building, and bobbing for 
apples. Lots of points were up for grabs 
in these events for the chapters who 
came out on top. For those chapter 
favoring more traditional sports 
was Delta Gammas Anchor Slam, 
a basketball tournament that ben
efited Pittsburgh Vision Services.
The hoopsters of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon managed to top the rest of 
the tournament field.
A couple of the days were more 
service oriented rather than 
for raising funds for 
charities. The first 
of these was a 
benefit lun 
cheon where 
Greek 
participan 
sold Indian 
meals
Wean Hall to 
raise money 
the Prajna
Counseling Center.
The closing event 
was also of this 
variety, as the 
houses came 
together to make 
sandwiches in the 
West Wing TV lounge 
for some of Pittsburghs 
homeless. Although not as flashy 
as some of the other events on the 
weeks slate, fraternities and sororities 
could still bring in points depending on 
how many oftheir members were able to
volunteer for them.
One of the biggest parts of Greek Week 
was Band Wars 2000, a concert held at
and Greek houses again 
points if they were able to sell 
to the show. Four groups played 
their sets during the concert: Sporadic, 
Erratic Fool, The Karnes and Meritt
for
ing local
bands. The proceeds from ticket sales 
went to the Williams SyndromeSign on Purnell adds student poetry, attempts to improve its appearance
Project, and twotime winners Caos Radio. The 
winners were determined by a panel of 
five judges as well as polls conducted of
the audience. Sporadic, featuring MCs 
Pie Price and Ryan Vaughan, hit the Laga 
stage first, followed by Caos Radio. 
Favored to win for the third straight 
year, Caos Radio delighted the fans and 
scored well with the judges also. Erratic 
Fool was the third act to display its 
wares, and the group quickly estab
lished themselves as the clear-cut 
favorite among the judges. They also 
endeared themselves to the fans with 
a few covers, including Britney 
Spears ...Baby One More 
Time. The Karnes and 
Merritt Project 
closed out the 
evening with a 
strong set, and it 
was time to 
announce the win
ners. Although
Erratic Fool scored 
best with the judges, 
huge support allowed 
Caos Radio to triumph 
in Band Wars for the 
third year running.
After all the events were 
completed, the final 
points were tallied and 
the Greek Week 2000 
winners were
announced. First place 
went to Zeta Psi Sigma with 464 
points. Second place went to Delta Delta 
Delta with 434 points. Kappa Kappa 
Gamma received third place with 382 
points, and Pi Kappa Alpha took fourth 
place with 317 points.Sorority and fraternity members participate in charity auction
Shainia McGrath/Assistant Photo Editor
The flashing Purnell Center sign now features the work of student poetry in an effort to improve its abrasive look.
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
When the large red liquid crys
tal display (LCD) sign was put up 
over the entrance to the Purnell 
Center walkway last year, its pur
pose was simply to promote the 
events taking place in Purnell, 
particularly the Drama 
Department performances. But 
recently the sign has found a new 
purpose: purveyor of poetry. For 
the past few months, in addition 
to Drama performance notices, 
members of the Carnegie Mellon 
Community have also been greet
ed with short Poems of the 
Week.
I loved the idea, said Peter 
Frisch, head of the Drama 
Department. Frisch felt that the 
poetry, which changes weekly, 
would be a good way to get more 
passersby to look at the LCD more 
frequently. [I think! its going to 
provide some interest as well as 
give people an interesting chance 
to reflect, he said. Frisch also 
notes that the poems will hopeful
ly alleviate the concerns of some 
members of the campus communi
ty, who were unhappy when the 
LCD first went up. There were 
some students who did not take 
kindly to the sign going up last 
year, he said. Hopefully the 
poems make it more campus 
friendly, more humane.
The genesis of this collabora
tion between the Drama and 
English departments occurred, 
appropriately enough, at a meet
ing of the Center for Arts and 
Society. The Center is dedicated to 
the interdisciplinary teaching of 
the Humanities and the Arts. At 
the meeting, CFA Dean Martin 
Prekop approached Jim Daniels,
the director of the Creative 
Writing program, about the possi
bility of putting poetry up on the 
LCD. Daniels was very excited 
about the idea, seeing it as an 
opportunity to bring poetry out 
. into the community and surprise 
people with it. Daniels believes 
that too often people are afraid of 
poetry because they are only 
familiar with the older forms and 
more traditional poets that they 
learned about in high school. 
Many are unaware, he said, of 
what contemporary poetry actual
ly looks and sounds like. To be 
open to poetry, people have to see 
it as this living thing thats hap
pening now, he said. Maybe in 
some small way this will expand
[poetrys] audience. _________
Daniels is also hoping to 
expand poetrys participants. He is 
anxious to read poems from those 
in any discipline. We dont want 
this to be a private thing, he said. 
If you can write a decent poem, 
send it in. Daniels also said that 
he would be willing to look at 
poems written by students, facul
ty, staff and even alumni.
This call for diversity is hearti
ly endorsed by Frisch, up to a 
point. The whole University sees 
the sign, not just the English 
Department, he said. Id love to 
see some engineers poem up 
there. Frisch is hesitant, however, 
about using non-student poems. 
He wondered if non-student 
poems would require the attach
ment of too many pieces of identi
fying information. He also said 
that part of what he likes about 
the poems is that, It is interesting 
to see, as faculty, what kind of 
capacity students have as poets.
That said, Frisch did enjoy 
Daniels own poem, which was the 
first to go up on the LCD. It was
absolutely beautiful, he said, 
adding that it was unfortunate 
that it had to be altered from its 
original format to fit the limita
tions of what the sign can allow. 
To fit on the LCD, poems can be at 
most, six lines long, with a maxi
mum of 24 characters on a line. 
But Daniels said that these limita
tions, create a healthy tension 
between content and format. It 
teaches students to look at impor
tant elements such as where a line 
breaks, he said.
Despite all that it can teach, 
some students felt that their 
poems lost something when edited 
because of the signs constraints. 
Joey Tague, a junior English 
major, said that he was very proud 
to see his poem up on the LCD but _ 
that, Editing it for the sign was 
tough, because it did lose a certain 
tone it had with its original struc
ture. Other students wondered if 
perhaps the poems lost something 
due to their technical presenta
tions. Its a good idea that its on 
display, but you just dont get the 
same feelings from such technicallooking text, said Mary Ann 
Feusner, a junior in BHA. Its too 
technical for something so person
al, she said.
Yet the different presentation is 
the precise reason that other 
members of the community like 
the addition of poetry to the 
Purnell LCD. Michele Grab, coor
dinator of Student Development, 
often reads the poems, as she can 
see the display from her office. I 
think its neat, she said. Its a dif
ferent kind of forum for students 
to get their work out.
[Editors Note: Joey Tague is the 
Dossier Co-Literary Editor and a 
member of The Tartan Editorial 
Board.]
by Andy FrancisCo-Arts and Living Editor
Organizers of this years 
Greek Week have been touting 
the five-day slate of events as a 
way.xo^ increase interfraternity 
interaction, while at the1 same 
time promote the Greek chap
ters involvement in philan
thropic and community service 
endeavors. Having already set
 up a benefit luncheon and a day 
dedicated to making sandwich.es for local homeless people, 
the organizers of Greek Week 
decided to do it with a little 
style with Thursdays 
Bachelor/Bachelorette Auction. 
The event, which featured 16 
representatives from 13 frater
nities and sororities, pulled in 
over $250 for the Pediatric 
AIDS Foundation.
The evening began with each 
of the eligibles strolling out 
onto the runway, accompanied 
by an escort and introduced by 
the evenings emcee, Greek-Week-tri-ehair and Delta Delta 
Delta sister Rina Mansukhani. 
She read the name, major, and 
a few quick things about each 
person, including their most 
embarrassing moment. (One 
bachelor cited being in this 
auction as his most embarrass
ing moment.) Each organiza
tion auctioning off a member 
had some brothers or sisters 
present who cheered loudly 
when their houses 
bachelor/bachelorette hit the 
stage. Particularly notable 
were the brothers of Delta Tau 
Delta, who yelled for their 
entrant, Joe Grause, long after 
his brief appearance. The eight 
bachelors were introduced first, 
followed by the five bachelorettes, and lastly the Greek 
Week tri-chairs (Mansukhani, 
Kappa Alpha Thetas Jessica 
Glassberg, and Sigma Tau 
Gammas Pete Hanlon.)
After the crowd got acquaint
ed with each potential pur
chase, the rules were set out for 
the bidders. The bidding was
silent, and the crowd was allot
ted 15 minutes to place their 
bids. Prior to the show, each 
bidder was assigned a number 
to bid with. Each contestant 
received a sheet of paper at the 
back of Rangos, and to bid a 
person simply wrote their num
ber and the amount they were 
willing to bid, which of course 
had to exceed the previous high 
bid on the sheet, on the object 
of their affections paper. The 
winners of the event were not 
the bachelor/bachelorettes 
who earned the most money; 
rather, the houses whose mem
bers spent the most to land a 
particular entrant would be 
awarded the Greek Week 
points. The highest bid overall 
received a total of 25 points for 
their house; second and third 
place earned 20 and 15 points 
respectively.
After the bidding expired, 
Glassberg brought up each of 
the contestants individually 
and called out who had won the 
See RACHFI OR. nape RP
First-year Dan Caballero was the bachelor escorting Marika Haritos at the Greek Week Bachelor/Bachelorette 
Auction. Caballero is a CIT major and member of Sigma Nu and Haritos is a junior psychology major and 
sister at Kappa Alpha Theta. All of the proceeds from this charity event pulled in over $250 from the fra
ternities and sororities, and went towards the Pediatric AIDS Foundation.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
Scheduling elective fabrics into your upcoming CMU fashion curriculum
Fashion 101By: Tifanie Tiberio
Its almost time for class scheduling, and I have 
heard a lot of talk about electives. What are elec
tives, anyway? Classes you dont have to take, but 
have enough interest to enroll in. Which made me 
think about elective fashion statements  you 
know, those things you dont have to wear to keep 
warm or cover your body, but you wear in public 
anyway. So for this week, I am going to register you 
all for a course in elective fabrics.
What are elective fabrics, you might ask? I am 
going to narrow the category down to 4 specifics: 
leather, suede, denim, and animal print. Leather is 
a great material, warm and durable with allowance 
to mold perfectly to your body. I am a huge advo
cate of the leather jacket  I think everyone should 
suck it up and invest in one. My problem comes 
with the blatant misuse and abuse of the fabric. If 
you want to wear a leather jacket, please wear 
leather shoes, preferably in a matching color if you
are wearing a black or brown jacket. It distresses 
me so greatly to see running shoes with a tailored 
leather coat. But my primary grievance is witlj 
leather pants. Leather pants are for clubs  not 
class. Unless you . have a Thursday evening class 
that does not end until 10pm and you absolutely 
must get to Mad M\x for 
the drink special, theVe is 
no reason whatsoever ^or 
you to be anywhere near 
campus wearing leather, 
pants. And to whomever I CQW?
saw rocking the blue 
pleather pants around
campus last week right in the middle of the after
noon  you know better than that!
Suede and denim are a little easier. I dont see so
jacket with a black leather bag. And if you are 
going to invest in suede anything, spend the extra 
twenty bucks to get it weather proofed. Rain stains 
are not cute  not even by Cariiegie Mellon stan
dards.
Dark denim jackets are hot for this fall. I am actu
ally quite pleased with the 
amount of people I see 
participating in the trend 
 it gives me hope that 
the majority of students 
here do, in fact, have 
some kind of contact with
______ _________________ the outside world. But for
my own sanity, please refrain from mixing denims. 
Dark denim jackets go with dark denim bottoms 
(buying from the same company will definitely 
much of these around and so my suggestions are make matching much easier). Still dont underconsequently very specific and limited. With stand? A G4 monitor looks rather ridiculous 
j__ j _. ......I. .1 .... -< hooked up to a Compaq tower, right?
Who ever decided that a woman would aspire to 
lc\
suede, try and coordinate it with the rest of your 
accessories and clothing. Nothing will get you 
talked about faster than a brown suede bomber
And now for animal prints. I was never a real 
advocate of this trend, but they are not too bad, if
used in moderation. I will try and tackle them one 
fake, dead animal at a time. Cow print: I blame the 
fashion world for this one. Who ever decided that 
a woman would aspire to look like a cow? But 
some redneck somewhere said it was ok, and now 
there are days when I feel like I have been put out 
to pasture. Snake print: A cute print if you can pull 
it off. Let me tell you who cant: someone who puts 
on a pair of snake skin pants and looks more like 
Godzilla than a gardener. If you cant pull off the 
pants, then use some restraint. While a wallet may 
be a nice statement, a cowboy hat is not. And 
finally, have you ever seen a pink or blue zebra 
before in your life? Well, what a coincidence, nei
ther have I.
So, when you are thinking of enrolling in an elec
tive course, ask yourself this question, am I willing 
to do the work even though it is not required of me? 
Similarly, if you are not willing to take a few 
moments to correctly wear elective fabrics, stick to 
what is required to offer coverage and warmth. 
Stick to cottonit really is the fabric of our lives.
Latest Frame exhibit features unique fusion of fine arts and architecture
The last Greek Week event this Sunday was sandwich making in the West Wing T.V. lounge for many of Pittsburgh's 
nearby homeless shelters. Although not as flashy as some of the other activits, fraternities and sororities could still 
bring in points depending on how much their members were able to volunteer.
Greeks place bids at charity auction, Delta Delta Delta Sister wins event
BACHELOR, from page B1
bid and what house they were from. Frequently, it 
was not one lucky person who won a date with their
It appeared as if several bachelors had never seen the small groups of girls who bid for their services.
bachelor or bachelorette; groups of sisters from sev
eral sororities snapped up many of the men and
women available, and a group of Alpha Epsilon Pi 
brothers pooled their resources to snag Glassberg. It 
appeared as if several of the bachelors had never 
seen the small groups of girls who bid for their ser
vices. Delta Tau Delta brothers came through with 
perhaps the most romantic endeavors of the evening 
as Allen Ednie won the bidding for his girlfriend, 
Kappa Alpha Theta sister Mitra Taheri, and Michael 
Hutsko nabbed Mansukhani.
Afterwards, the somewhat anticlimactic winners 
were announced. Zeta Psi Sigma placed the third 
highest bid, $43, for Zeta sister Eileen Shiue. Kappa 
Kappa Gamma followed suit, coughing up $50 for 
their representative, Christine Bolton. Not to be 
outdone, the sisters of Delta Delta Delta put in the 
highest bid of all, $54. It should by now come as no 
surprise that the bid was placed for Chetana 
Patankar, a sister of ... thats right, Delta Delta 
Delta.
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Edit
Architecture majors Brent Buck and Edward Parker displayed their work at the Frame this past Friday. Their exhib
it was a unique fusion of architecture and fine art. The project involved mixing and matching materials ranging from 
blocks of wood to plumbing joints. The exhibit also displayed the steps of their work, from drafts on scrap paper to 
the finished product. Entitled, "This is our idea. This is what you see," the artists project hoped to invoke view
ers to explore perceptions of materials and their use.
forms. As they said, This was 
our goal, and has become our 
reality.
The show was an intricate and 
thought-provoking architectural 
project, built through a wellplanned process of drawings and 
sketch models, before finally 
reaching the day of the construc
tion when all the materials were 
brought to the location of assem
bly to produce the finished prod
uct. The reception on Friday 
seemed like a gallery opening in 
SOHO, except it was on Forbes 
Avenue here in Pittsburgh. 
Nonetheless, the audience of the 
reception consisted of CMU stu
dents, professors, and members 
of the Pittsburgh community who 
showed a vast appreciation for 
the fine arts. There was music, 
wine, and cheese for all the 
guests. Overallthe show was 
clearly a successand a very 
interesting occasion to observe a 
unique fusion of art and architec
ture.
Parker described their show as it 
says on their posters, Exploring 
the synthetic possibilities of tec
tonics and abstract thought and 
development theory of built 
form
Each of the exhibits six instal
lations utilized everyday materi
als in a different form and envi
ronment. These materials 
ranged from wood, cables, and 
plumbing joints, some of which 
were even counter-balanced by a 
concrete block. Their show was 
an attempt to engage the viewers 
in thinking about materials and 
the way that people both per
ceive and understand their use. 
Though they attend to the details 
in a specific way, the full installa
tion of their work took on a large 
and cohesive character. Each 
structure was a member of the 
same family, tyet contained its 
own distinct personality. From 
general idea to specific detail, 
they have understood and react
ed with these installations
by Behnam FarahpourContributing Editor
This is our idea. This is what 
you see. That was the eye-catching statement behind the work of 
two architecture students, Brent 
Buck and Edward Parker, whose 
projects appeared at The Frame 
this past Friday.
Their collaborative efforts dis
played an exhibition of mixing 
and matching with forms of fine 
art such as graphic design and 
sculpture. Their pieces consisted 
of six installations, which were 
very aesthetically pleasing, while 
at the same time illuminating 
thought provoking curiosity as to 
what the intentions of each piece 
were. The work appeared to 
bring forth two of the most fun
damental ideas of architecture, 
the first being the technical 
aspects of construction of the 
form. The other was the fine art 
aspect of architecture. Buck and
Band Wars 2000 was held this past Friday at Club Laga. The concert featured a variety of local bands, such as Caos 
Radio featured above, and the money from ticket proceeds went to the Williams Syndrome Association.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
Singer, songwriter Elliot Smith fills McConomy up with monk rock
by Ryan HamiltonJunior Staffwriter
Tuesday, October 31, saw one of 
the years more exciting acts, 
Elliott Smith, come to Carnegie 
Mellon. The venue was Rangos 
Ballroom in the UC. The room 
could have been cooler: especially 
near the front, where the temper
ature was suffocating, but there 
was more than enough room, and 
it was festively decorated with the 
flags of Latin American countries. 
Early comers were treated to a 
When Animals Attack-esque 
viewing experience, the highlight 
of which consisted of a moose 
repeatedly stomping on top of 
some guys skull.
Grandaddy, the opening act, 
came on only a little behind 
schedule. They seemed to be 
dressed as grizzled hunters (for
Halloween, perhaps?). The drum
mer had a cigarette hanging out of 
his mouth throughout the show, 
and his first action was to take a 
swig from a 40. When they started 
to play then, it was a surprise. 
They filled the room with a sweet
ly melodic dual-guitar attack, 
augmented by spacey key
boards, the sound falling some
where between Built to Spill and 
the Pixies. Jason Lytles poignant, 
delicate vocals floated effectively, 
giving the impression of Doug 
Martsch abandoned on Mars and 
feeling very, very sad about it.
Their set lasted about 30 min
utes, highlighted by a song that 
may or may not be called Sarah, 
and a pseudo-cover of You Are 
My Sunshine. Then after a few 
shy Thank yous from Lytle, the 
band made its exit, and Elliot 
Smith was set to make his apperance 45 minutes later.
I dont know why it would take 
so long for him to come on stage, 
but I certainly wasnt happy about 
it. During this time, seven high
school students found it fit to jam 
their way in front of me and giggle 
to themselves about what jerks 
they were. One blond girl with
flowers in her hair stank.
I endured, however, and when 
Elliot Smith finally made his 
appearance, it was worth all the 
trials. The crowd seemed to agree, 
enthusiasticlly greeting Smith 
(who was dressed either as Obi 
Wan Kenobi or. Christ, I couldnt 
decide) and his backing band. 
Smith leaped to a start, the full-on 
guitar-pop attack, a surprising 
change from his largely acoustic 
and string-laced albums. I felt less 
energy than I did from 
Grandaddy, but I was definitely in 
the minority. The set featured a 
pleasing mixture of newer (which 
pleased the crowd) and older 
(which pleased the seven people 
in front of me) songs, the band 
effectively filling out each, and 
Smith really appeared to enjoy 
himself. Highlights from the show 
included Waltz #2 and Son of 
Sam.
The main highlight of the 
evening, however, was the encore. 
For the first encore, the band cov
ered Blue Oyster Cults Dont 
Fear the Reaper, in honor and 
celebration of Halloween. For this 
song, Smith donned an execution
ers mask. Smith reappeared 
bandless for the second encore, to 
the delight of the crowd, tenta
tively holding an acoustic guitar. 
He played three beautiful and 
poignant tracks, which complete
ly showed up his previous perfor
mance, despite some mistakes (a 
few times he swore and then 
stopped playing, looking pretty 
close to tears.) The show left me 
feeling impressed if somber, and 
the tour (which continues 
througout this winter) comes 
strongly recommended if you 
can get to it in another city. Its 
definitely worth it for either 
band alone.
Shainia McGrath/Assistant Photo Editor
Folk singer-songwriter Elliot Smith performed last Tuesday in Rangos 
Ballroom. His set was more electric than his mostly acoustic based albums.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 25, 1949  The 
Carnegie Tech football squad prevailed over the 
heavily favored Case Western Reserve team 36-27 
to run their season record to an impressive 5-0. Over
7,000 fans turned out for the annual Homecoming 
game, which saw line man Fritz Wilson haul in three 
touchdown catches, one of which was from senior 
running back Nick Simcic, who scored also received 
one of Techs five scores on the day.
With three games remaining, the Tech gridders 
had the opportunity to match the schools best 
record, the 7-1 mark posted by Carnegies 1938 
Sugar Bowl team regarded as tops in school history. 
The victory over Case put Tech in the national sports 
spotlight, as reporters began ranking the squad 
among the countrys best. Although they suffered 
their first defeat two weeks later at the hands of 
Lehigh University, the Skibos rebounded against 
Westminster in their final game to match the 1938 
teams record.
25 YEARS AGO, November 4, 1975  Over two 
hundred students, identifying themselves as the 
Associated Students of Architecture (ASA), assem
bled to talk about their problems with the 
Department of Architecture. 130 of the schools 300 
architecture students signed a petition opposing 
precipitous actions by the universities [sic] adminis
tration to alter the structure or composition of the 
Department of Architecture. After this initial meet
ing, fifteen representatives met with President Cyert, 
CFA Dean Akram Midani, and CFA Provost Edward
Schatz to discuss specific grievances.
The students presented nine issues they had with 
the department. The first three focused on what they 
perceived as a lack of organization and leadership in 
both department administration and University 
administration. Three more detailed concerns about 
the faculty: students complained that too many were 
CMU grads and that the turnover rate was alarming
ly high as a result of low salaries. Two additional 
complaints regarded lack of facilities and overcrowd
ing caused by a large freshman class. The final, and 
perhaps most important, claim was that the 
University was trying to control the department by 
their choice of department head and transform the 
undergraduate program.
TEN YEARS AGO, November 5, 1990  A 
Student Senate referendum to increase the Activities 
Fee from $40 to $50 per semester passed narrowly, 
just one year after the same proposal was struck 
down by a mere 26 votes. Student Senator Scott 
Zucker expressed surprise that the measure had 
passed, explaining that I tried to explain the need 
for the increase to [students], but they just didnt see 
it from Senates point of view.
The measure, which passed by the exact same nar
row margin it had lost by previously, saw a much 
lower voter turnout than before. While the first pro
posal saw more than 900 students turn out to vote, 
the winning measure had fewer than 600 students 
cast their ballots. The plan to increase the Activities 
Fee still needed to be passed by the Board of
Trustees, something that Student Senate Chair Chris 
Neighbor thought would be little trouble since they 
have voted for Fee increases in the past. Senators 
were uniformly pleased with the success of the mea
sure, as were several small campus groups compet
ing for funding. In particular, members of the 
Baseball Club and Computer Club were optimistic 
that the increase would bring in more money for 
them.
FIVE YEARS AGO, November 6, 1995  Music 
Department head Marilyn Taft Thomas stepped 
down after eight years at the post to focus on her 
career as a writer and composer. Thomas, who grad
uated from CMU and joined the faculty in 1981, had 
a background strong in piano and developing com
puter music software. She became head of the 
department and worked to increase the visibility of 
the department and raise its level of excellence. 
During her time as head, the average number of 
applicants to the School of Music tripled and enroll
ment doubled.
Thomas was involved with many projects during 
her tenure. Among these was assisting in the devel
opment of a computer program called MacVoice, 
which helps students learn music theory and voice 
leading. She also improved the public relations of 
the department by establishing the International 
Music from Carnegie Mellon series on WQED-FM 
and releasing CDs from faculty 
members, wind ensemble, and the 
CMU Philharmonic. In addition,
Thomas also started a magazine called Con Brio, 
put on the first annual Homecoming concert, and 
established the worlds first bagpiping major.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 8,1999  Carnegie 
Mellons Administrative Computing and 
Information Services team declared the University 
Y2K compliant. Len Brush, assistant vice president 
of ACIS, said that We can feel confident, and com
puters will continue to operate. The staff looked 
all around the University, checking all sorts of 
equipment, even fire alarms and security systems. 
Most of the problems were alleviated using a tech
nique called windowing where year numbers 
greater than 50 were assumed to be in the 1900s 
and years below 50 in the 2000s.
Despite their confidence in the preparations they 
had made for Y2K, the ACIS team nevertheless took 
extra precautions and set up contingency plans. 
Power systems, including auxiliary generators, 
were installed to ensure that the University could 
continue to function even in a worst-case scenario. 
The plan also took into account all of the systems 
that could be impaired by the Y2K problem and set 
up guidelines for dealing with the problems. A 
skeleton crew was expected to be on campus for the 
New Year, including additional security. Final test
ing still remained for ACIS to supervise, and was 
expected to be complete by December 15.
Compiled by
Andy Francis
At Prudential, 
we let top achievers do 
what they do best.
Achieve.
Welcome lo the
Are you ready for our Corporate Fast Track? Prudential's Accelerated 
Development Programs (ADP) give out
standing college graduates a chance to 
launch careers on the fast track. We offer 
exciting paths in almost every area of our 
business. We're looking for achievers from 
diverse backgrounds who share one special 
qualitya thirst for challenge.
Big company resources, small company attention. Our programs 
combine hands-on experience and 
innovative classroom techniques with 
one-on-one mentoring. Through a series 
of assignments, participants get the 
chance to develop a wide variety of skills.
Your chance to make a difference.
Prudential is known throughout the world 
as a leader in financial services and in 
communities everywhere for our helping 
hand. Participants in our programs are not 
only top scholars, but also leaders in school 
and community activities.
Get to know Prudential. If you
are ambitious and creative with demon
strated leadership skills and a strong GPA, 
wed like to speak with you in more detail 
about career opportunities.
We encourage you to submit your resume and 
find out about our corporate management 
career tracks.
 Actuarial LeadershipDevelopment Program (ALDP)
? Pace Investment Analyst Program (Pace)
? Prudential Leadership Development Program PLDP)
 Human Resources
 Marketing Management
 Individual Financial Services
 Operations & Systems
 Marketing
 Information Technology
Please double-check with your career 
services office for resume submission 
deadlines and interview locations.
Be sure to visit our website at: www.prudential.com
Prudential offers a 
highly competitive 
salary and benefits 
package. We are an 
Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action 
Employer and are 
committed to 
diversity in our 
workforce.
mp Prudential
2000 The Prudential Insurance Company of America, 751 Broad Street, Newark, NJ 07102carn-10/9
Frustrated by lotions, potions, gizmos or gadgets?
Yahr Electrolysis CenterStill the only permanent hair removal!
Jane G. Yahr, CPE Dr. Charles J. Yahr, CPE
Nationally Board Certified Daytime & Evening Appts.
Squirrel Hill
(412) 422-4490
5824 Forbes Avenue
50 % off first visit with mention of this ad
Hi63/LoUNIVERSITY
MAN,
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
GRAPHIC COMMUNICATIONS
INMlL(IT AND,Y SKILLS
THE ARNNCAAeA812prta s&Liv&JOB MARKET
Secure the knowledge and professional skills for a 
competitive edge in business, communications, 
journalism, or the arts.
Whether you choose to take courses at the undergradu
ate level as a minor or electives or at the graduate level, 
the Program in Graphic Communications 
Management and Technology at NYU's School of 
Education can put you on the fast track to a career in
Desktop/Internet Publishing 
Corporate Publishing 
Print Production Management
Graphic Communications 
Management and Technology 
Department of Culture
and Communication ^ LEARN MORE:
2>9 Greene Street, 7th Floor (212) 998-5125
NewYork, NY 10003-6674
New York university is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

Business
6 November 2000THE-'TARTANPage B4,
CMU Inc. CMU endowment pales in comparison to tier colleges
Heinz School 
promotes Burgh
One of the three largest net
working events in the nation, 
Network Pittsburgh is an oppor
tunity for CMU alumni in the 
workforce to network with cur
rent students in the Heinz School 
for employment opportunities. 
Network Pittsburgh is an infor
mal reception that gives employ
ers an easy, cost-effective way to 
identify prospective employees 
and summer interns. Attending 
organizations will include IT 
Professionals, Inc., PNC Financial 
Services, and a whole slew of 
Pittsburgh municipal govern
ment offices. The event will be 
held on November 15th at the 
Pittsburgh Senator John Heinz 
Regional History Center, 1212 
Smallman Avenue, from 5:30 pm 
to 8:30 pm.
Heinz meets with 
Gustavo
The Heinz School is also hold
ing a forum with speaker Gustavo 
Arao, president of the US 
Committee of the International 
Council on Monuments and Sites 
for International Heritage 
Conservation and Preservation, 
who is to speak about policy and 
leadership. This talk is to be held 
on December 1st in Hamburg Hall 
2503, from 8-9:15 am.
Stick a fork in 
him, hes Dunn
Dean of GSIA, Douglas Dunn 
PhD, announced his retirement 
from the school he has headed 
for the greater part of the last 
decade. Provost Mark Kamlet has 
placed the start of the second 
semester of 2001 as the deadline 
for finding Dunns suitor. 
However, the CEO of GSIA has 
agreed to remain on board if nec
essary.
Under Dunns leadership, GSIA 
has experienced many accom
plishments. The sschool celebrat
ed its 50th anniversary in 1999 
and just opened the third floor 
addition to Posner Hall.
Dunns tenure also realized 
more national recognition, par
ticularly in MBA program rank
ings and the opening of the grad
uate program dedicated to ecommerce.
The most recent of changes at 
GSIA included the name change 
in the degree to MBA (masters in 
business administration).
His departure will indeed have 
some effect, to be known at a 
later date, on the undergraduate 
program currently headed by 
John Hooker PhD.
Compiled by 
Christopher Kim
2000 fiscal year return rate (%)
Soure: Chronicle of Higher Education, Tartan reporting 
California Institute of Technology 2000 figures are unaudited.
by Brad GrantzBusiness Editor
While Carnegie Mellon may have a num
ber of vast advantages over Case Western 
Reserve University, but one is not its 
endowment. The well-endowed Cleveland 
school boasts a 1.55 billion dollar account, 
compared to an 826.6 million figure for 
CMU. The University also falls short of the 
University of Pittsburgh (44th nationally), 
who recently topped the one billion dollar 
mark.
While the Universitys average rate of 
return since 1996 is 12.9%, the earnings on 
investment is only slightly higher than the 
1999 figure of 11%. Given the extraordi
nary growth of endowments between 1999 
and 2000, however, the number falls short 
of the return rate for comparable institu
tions.
Many schools have a considerable advan
tage in investing its endowment than CMU.
Harvard Univeristy whose endowment 
increased 32.2% from $14.26 billion and $19.2, 
has been returning investment on its endow
ment for a considerably longer time than the 
Carnegies Technical Schools started in 1900.
The endowment is used to supplement the 
operating budget of a university. On average, 
schools spend between four and five percent of 
their total endowment each year, using the rest 
to supplement the account. CMU funneledIntel hoping to create new 
backbone of the Internet
revenue estimate from $9.0 billion 
to $8.6 billion and their September 
quarter EPS estimate from $0.41 to 
$0.38. An abstract from the con
sultancys research article said of 
the decrease there is a down
wards sliding scale and the possi
ble stagnation of Intels main end 
market, and the possibility of mar
ket share gains in microprocessors 
by Intels competitors, and the pos
sibility that Intel could make large 
and dilutive acquisitions in the 
future to accelerate entry into the 
communications chip markets. 
However, optimists believes that 
the nascent tech sector rally and 
the upbeat of semiconductor 
growth will provide the boost for 
Intels stock prices. Bill Meehan, 
chief market analyst for Cantor 
Fitzgerald, believes that relative 
prices are certainly more attractive 
than they were at the height of the 
mania in the tech stocks rally, even 
if many are still discounting a 
rosier economic picture than is 
likely to unfold. And fear of miss
ing out on a repeat of the incredi
ble gains generated over the past 
couple of November-December 
periods is a far stronger motivator 
than the fear of losing money.
One would need to analyze the 
stratagems of Intel in the recent 
past. According to a managing 
director and senior electronics 
analyst of Lehman Brothers, the 
free PC phenomenon and declin
ing average selling prices have put 
See INTELNET, page B5
Endowment figures for selected universities
Harvard 
MIT 
Washington U.
Cornell 
U. of Chicago 
Case Western 
Cal Tech 
CMU
FY 1999 FY 2000
5 10 15Values in Billions
Michael Castellano/Art Staff
nearly $33 million of the endowment toward 
the operating budget at a 4.8% spending rate. 
Jeff Bolton, vice president of finance and plan
ning stated the the school plans on increasing 
the draw rate to 5.0% in 2003-04. While 
schools have experienced prodigious increases 
in total endowments, spending has remained 
somewhat constant. In the Chronicle of Higher Education, Leon Botstein, president of Bard 
College argued that schools should be more
willing to invest in its quality of education 
rather than be risk-aversive.
These are not banks, and many of them have 
become banks, said Bolstein. His schools six 
percent spending rate is substantially larger than 
most institutions, especially considering their 
relatively paltry endowment of $95 million.
Long term addition to the [endowment] 
base seems financially sound, but I suppose I 
See ENDOW, page B5CMU Web-based idea network to host mixer
by Yinglan TanJunior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons tantalizing 
deal with Intel Corporation may 
becoming unappetizing consider
ing recent financial reports for the 
company. The soothsayers had pre
dicted gloomy forecasts for the 
sequential growth of Intel during 
the second quarter of the year. An 
Intel spokesman had announced 
that the company expected 
September 2000 quarter revenues 
to fall short of the expected rate of 
8%, only managing a lackluster 3 
 5%. The board expressed its dis
appointment that sequential rev
enue growth in the September 
quarter is less than what had been 
expected but expresses optimism 
for the comparative revenue 
growth in the second quarter in the 
context of PC-related markets.
David Wong, PaineWebber mar
ket analyst, said he believes that 
the value of Intels stock will drop 
with slowing growth. Intel has 
focused on selling servers, 
launched in September, for voicepowered Web sites that will allow 
consumers to retrieve stock quotes, 
weather updates or pricing infor
mation using just a phone. 
However, market analysts lowered 
their estimates and price targets 
for Intel share prices. Sam Lee, 
associate analyst, indicated that 
Paine Webber consultancy has 
lowered their September quarter
By Vivek SridharanJunior Staffwriter
While many organizations today 
are trying to translate their physi
cal presence to the Internet, 
www.CarnegieExchange.org, an 
internet-based entrepreneurial 
network for the Carnegie Mellon 
community, will try their hand in 
the physical realm. The 
CarnegieExchange event, which 
takes place on Thursday, 
November 9 from 6-9 pm in the 
Giant Eagle Auditorium, Baker 
Hall, is an attempt at conjuring the 
entrepreneurial spirit from stu
dents from all areas of study.
CarnegieExchange is a medium 
for potential start-ups to begin by 
building relationships between 
members of the different colleges at 
CMU. Carnegie Exchange was 
brought about by a joint effort 
between CMU students and profes
sors from many different disci
plines, and the site went live last 
month, coinciding with the Esite 
start-up fair.
The actual event will consist of 
a mixer with free food, where stu
dents can informally exchange 
ideas and interact with each 
other. People will be placed into 
groups, based on what areas of 
interest their ideas encompass. 
The groups will then set up com
panies and business plans. They 
can then present their ideas to a 
professional panel. In addition, 
the best group can earn a $1,000
prize. Atila Omer and Paul 
Dinsmore, students in the GSIA 
and two of the founders of 
Carnegie Exchange, see this 
mixer as a way for students to not 
only get interested in 
CarnegieExchange, but entrepre
neurship as a whole. Were high
lighting whats possible in CMU 
when highly motivated people get 
together, stated Omer.
A major part of the mixer is the 
professional panel, consisting of 
employees from local law firms and 
venture capitalists Draper Triangle 
Group, Birchmere, and Venture 
Beginnings. For students who want 
to know the market for their ideas, 
this can be especially important. 
The mixer lets people who see 
these ideas day in and day out 
assess your plans, said Omer.
Currently CarnegieExchange 
has over 100 members, and the 
founders hope that the size and 
diversity of the group will contin
ue to grow. Omer believes this 
will happen because Once you 
leave [CMU], connecting with a 
network such as ours is very 
hard. In most start-ups a multi
disciplined team is needed, and 
while the university provides the 
people, Carnegie Exchange pro
vides the means of connecting 
those people together. We want 
to potentially get a couple of ideas 
that can get the network going to 
prove to people that [Carnegie 
Exchange] is worthwhile," says 
Dinsmore, "We want to get recog
nition from people outside of 
GSIA.
Market Newscompiled and designed by Aseem Gupta/Online Editor
MARKETSNASDAQ THIS WEEK
IndexFriday
Dow Jones Industrials 10,817.95 
Nasdaq Composite 3,451.58 
American Stock Ex. 919.58 
Standard & Poors ' 1,426.69 
WORLD MARKETS
Index Friday
FTSE 100 (Britain) 6385.4 
Nikkei (Japan) 14837.78
DAX (Germany) 7128.27
10/02/00
10,733.91
3,860.66
922.45
1,452.43
Point Chg.
84.04
-409.08
-2.87
-25.74
% Change
0.78%
-10.60%
-0.31%
-1.77%
10/02/00
6,256.00
15,747.26
6,787.36
Point Chg. % Change
129.4 2.07%
-909.48 -5.7,8%
340.91 5.02%World awaits Cisco results
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - As 
Cisco Systems Inc. (NasdaqNM:CSCO 
news) gets set to report its earnings 
today, worried high-tech investors are 
eagerly waiting to see if it can beat 
Wall Street estimates as it has in the 
past, or become another victim of 
slowing sales growth in the network 
equipment sector.
Investors have rewarded industry 
leader Cisco with a nearly $400 billion 
market capitalization - higher than 
that of Microsoft Corp. 
(NasdaqNM:MSFT - news) -- based on 
consistent year-on-year earnings 
growth over the past 10 quarters.
But some analysts now believe the 
San Jose-based maker of computer 
and communications network prod
ucts could be vulnerable to softer 
demand in the high-growth markets it 
depends on for its booming sales.
Nortel Networks Corp.'s (NYSE:NT 
- news) share price crashed by onethird and has yet to recover -- despite 
42 percent year-on-year revenue 
growth in its most recent quarter -- 
because it failed .to live up to even
loftier growth forecasts. Other tele
com equipment makers like Lucent 
Technologies Inc. have endured the 
same fate.
So far, Cisco has proven a master at 
growing its business at a fast clip - an 
average of 30 to 50 percent annual 
revenue growth in the last few years - 
while managing Wall Street's expecta
tions. Cisco has topped analysts' con
sensus estimates on earnings per share 
by one cent for three years and count
ing.
For its fiscal first quarter 2001, 
ended September 30, analysts are esti
mating that Cisco will report revenue 
between $6.3 and $6.5 billion, with 
earnings per share of 17 cents vs. $3;9 
billion and 12 cents in the previous 
years first quarter.
Cisco's stock dropped five percent 
last Monday after Lehman Brothers 
analyst Tom Luke lowered his price 
target for Cisco to $60-65 from $90, 
based on just such concerns. Cisco was 
trading at $56-3/4, down about a 
third from its peak of $82 in March.
Mon. Tues. Weds. Thurs. Fri.THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that 
we feel represent Pittsburgh based and national companies that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date 
of 24 January. The initial index is calculated by adding the value 
of the 15 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE
Open: 8,046.41 Close: 8,046.41 
Change: -102.13 Percent change:-1.27%
Year to date performance: -5308.13 
Best performer: U S Airways, +24.22%
Worst performer: Lycos, -40.29%
INDEX STATISTICS
Company Friday 10/02/00 Change
Alcoa 27.63 25.31 9.15%
Apple Computer 22.25 25.75 -13.59%
Cisco Systems 56.75 55.25 2.71%
Freemarkets 52.44 57.13 -8.21%
H.J. Heinz Co. 42.00 37.06 13.33%
Lycos 41.06 68.77 -40.29%
Mellon Bank 47.81 46.38 3.09%
Microsoft 68.25 60.31 13.17%
New York Times 37.00 39.31 -5.88%
PNC Bank 67.69 65.00 4.13%
PPG 45.44 39.69 14.48%
Qualcomm 70.50 71.25 -1.05%
Sun Micro. 113.06 116.75 -3.16%
US Airways 37.81 30.44 24.22%
JJSXjteel _ J4.88 -2.07%
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ. & The AP. The information 
contained in Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University.
Fear and loathing always present in Silicon Valley
The Business Beatby Rob Pinkerton
Gazelle.com was a great company. Dedicated simply to the sale of 
legware and legcare products on-line, Gazelle raised $8 million in ven
ture capital last spring. The company spent most of this money on mar
keting, despite owning no intellectual or physical capital and having 
not one original idea nor earning any profit. Unsurprisingly, Gazelle.com went out of business last month. I label this company 
great, not because it is the ultimate dot-comedy failure, but because its 
demise signals the end of a threat to Americas exceptional venture cap
ital system.
In countries like Britain, Germany and Japan, if an entrepreneur 
needs financing, he or she generally has to pursue it through a risk 
averse bank or big corporation. In the U.S., venture capitalists allow 
entrepreneurs to build businesses without having to borrow and pay 
high interest rates or having to negotiate corporate bureaucracies that 
feel threatened by innovation. Over the last 20 years, these venture 
capitalists have been rewarded for their risk-taking through the success 
of companies like Cisco, Sun Microsystems, and Amazon and have 
established the U.S. as the premier environment for developing tech
nologically innovative businesses.
But over the past few years companies like Gazelle.com have threat
ened the viability of the VC system. Venture capitalists are important 
because they are willing to finance risky ventures but they are equally 
important because they are experienced business managers who pro
vide mentoring and monitoring to new and undeveloped companies. 
Over the past few years, the financing side of venture capitalism bal
looned to massive proportions as every dotcom idea under the sun was 
funded. But the experienced VCs who provide valuable management 
consultation could not keep pace with the increase. Throughout the 
hype, these venture capitalists became undisciplined and invested in 
many companies that were not worthy and neglected to mentor others 
that were.
Now the proverbial stock market bubble has burst, silly companies
See FUNDING, page B5
Biz Briefs
Russians just Getty5 
over crude lesson
NEW YORK (AP)  Russias 
largest oil company Lukoil agreed 
Friday to purchase retail gasoline 
chain Getty Petroleum Marketing 
for $71 million in cash in what was 
billed as the first purchase of a pub
licly traded U.S. concern by a 
Russian company.
We consider this a springboard 
to further acquisitions in the U.S., 
said Vadim Guzman, head of 
Lukoils U.S. operations. We con
sider the U.S. markets to be the 
largest petroleum market in the 
world.
Under the terms of the deal 
announced Friday, Lukoil agreed to 
pay $5 for each share of Getty com
mon stock, which represents a 54 
percent premium over Gettys 
Wednesday closing price of $3.25.
Gaspar said the acquisition may 
serve as a warning to U.S. oil com
panies that competition from unex
pected areas  namely Russia  is 
encroaching into their backyard.
Getty Petroleum Marketing was 
spun off from Getty Petroleum 
Corp.  now called Getty Realty 
Corp.  back in 1997 to handle the 
parent companys petroleum mar
keting and heating oil businesses. 
Both are remnants of the oil empire 
built by J. Paul Getty, an oil mag
nate who was considered the rich
est man in the world at the time of 
his death in 1976.
Cheese creates big 
stink for company
MINNEAPOLIS (AP)  Two marble-jack cheese stick products that 
may be contaminated with listeria 
monocytogenes bacteria were 
recalled Friday.
There have been no reports of ill
ness related to the products, which 
were distributed in 33 states, saicf 
Crystal Farms Refrigerated
Distribution Co. Inc., a subsidiary 
of Michael FoodsInc.
The recalled products are 1- 
ounce, single-serve Crystal Farms 
Marble-Jack Cheese Sticks (UPC 
075925-30168) with expiration 
dates ranging from 12/24/00 to 
3/12/01; and 10-ounce bag of indi
vidually wrapped Cheezoids
Marble-Jack Cheese Sticks with 
various expiration dates from 
12/28/00 to 3/21/01.
Customers were asked to return 
the products to the place of pur
chase for a full refund.
Listeria monocytogenes can 
cause listeriosis, a rare but poten
tially fatal disease that can also 
cause miscarriages and stillbirths. 
Symptoms include neck stiffness, 
fever, severe headache and nausea. 
It affects mostly those with weak
ened immune systems.
The products were made with 
cheese from Wisconsin Hill & 
Valley Cheese Co-op of Cashton, 
Wis., which notified Crystal Farms 
of the possible contamination. 
Consumers with questions can call 
1-800-268-4709 or contact the 
company via its Web site.
Bank found all wet 
with deception
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)  Bank of 
America has agreed to a $35 mil
lion settlement of a class-action 
lawsuit alleging it gouged thou
sands of trust accountholders an4 
then shortchanged them on theii 
refunds.
The settlement announced 
, Friday ends six years of jousting 
over whether Bank of America 
| should be penalized for alleged 
I financial wrongdoing involving 
! trust accounts  also known as 
; escrow accounts  held by Security 
| Pacific National Bank. The bank dicj 
not acknowledge any wrongdoing 
in the settlement. A Bank of 
America spokeswoman said th^ 
bank decided to settle the case t(} 
limit its liability and eliminate zj 
time-consuming legal distraction, j
The settlement won't close the 
books on the case, which began in 
1994 shortly after Bank of America 
refunded $42 million in trust 
account fees and simple interest! 
Account holders sued the bank say) 
ing they should have been paid 
compounded interest. That part of 
the case is still pending, whicl} 
could be another $40 million more;
Compiled by 
Christina Koshzow

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000CMUs endowment practices fail to heavily capitalize on venture capital buzzQuaker Oats brought into bidding war
ENDOW, from page B4 
would oppose tution increases if 
surplus investment returns could 
help alleviate university expenses, 
said Paul Katz, a junior information 
sytems major.
In addition to benefiting from a 
bullish market, colleges are contin
uing to push for greater contribu
tions from alumni and community 
members. Harvard launched a $2.6 
billion capital campaign in 1999. 
On the homefront, the University of 
Pittsburgh just started a $500 mil
lion fundraising effort, of which it 
has already raised $351 million.
CMUs latest fundraising cam
paign of $350 million commenced 
in 1994. The school has raised $381 
million, far surpassing the previous 
high of the effort that garnered 
$229 million for Carnegie Mellon. 
That drive ended in 1991.
The University has since used 
$62.5 million to establish 60 new 
professorships. Monies have also 
been used in the campus expan
sion, funding such construction 
projects as Baker Hall, Roberts 
Engineering Hall, Posner Hall, the 
University Center, and the Purnell 
Center for the Arts.
Colleges have experienced a great 
deal of growth due to venture capi
tal funds. The most notable case is 
Duke University, which started 
putting monies toward venture 
cpaital in the late 1970s. After suf
fering through some disappointing 
returns, the college reaped a 58.8% 
return rate in 2000 to increase its 
endowment to $2.66 billion.
Bolton said that CMU currently 
has one percent of its endowment 
tied into venture capital funds and 
is planning to extend the figure to 
5.0%. Vanderbilt University experi
enced one of the more dramatic 
venture capital returns in 2000. A 
$2,900 investment in a technology 
firm, that the college declined to 
name, several years ago returned 
$19.2 million.
Many colleges have invested
1000
private equities.
Carnegie Mellon allo
cates 57% of its portfo
lio to equity invest
ments, which is largely 
placed in U.S. funds.
Washington 
University (MO) 
reported an endow
ment of $4.3 billion.
The school focuses 
almost 80% of its hold
ings on equity invest
ments managed by 
Bank of America,
Janus, and Deutsche 
Bank. The college is 
also in the midst of a 
$1.3 billion fundraising 
effort, it spends $115 
million of its endow
ment toward its operat
ing revenue. According 
to the student newspa
per the Student Life,
Wash U allocatess 
those funds at a clip 
near 10%.
While some schools 
do identify their prima
ry investments (Emory 
University puts a large 
portion of the endow
ment in local corpora
tion Coca-Cola), Bolton 
declined to mention 
specific funds or invest
ment managers.
One such fund manag
er, Commonfund, orga
nizes holdings for some 1,300 institions, of which Carnegie Mellon is 
one. The group directs monies toward 
equity funds and their various man
agers. Cambridge Associates, a fund 
manager for Commonfund and the 
University, did not return phone calls.
In 1999, the college had 43.7% of 
its total investments, of which the 
majority is the endowment, invest
ed in common stock. The school 
does not put funds directly into the 
common stock, the task being 
reserved for the numerous fund
Micharl Castellano/Art Staff
CMU endowment figures:
800
600
400
200
Oo0^ o
00 ^s 2 ^2 V (?7 co ^^ H1
480
Michael Castellano/Art Staff
Mellon does not disclose which 
companies the fund managers 
invest the endowment. Bolton stat
ed that the policy was reinforced by 
the finance committee chairperson 
of the Board of Trustees.
The University did not dignify 
whether endowment funds had 
been used in spin-offs from the 
Technology Transfer Office, citing 
the above-mentioned ruling.
The Chronicle of Higher 
Education contributed to this artinearly a fifth of their endowment in managers. However, Carnegie cle.Analysts weary of Intels revenues
INTELNET, from page B4 
pressure on Intel, forcing the com
pany to look beyond its core busi
ness for ways to grow revenues.
He added that Intel has its sights 
set on communications and net
working, natural extensions for the 
company. If Intel can help lift con
straints on network bandwidth, 
and allow richer forms of media to 
reach the PC platform, then this 
will drive demand for higher per
formance PC-processors. Intel is 
also interested in Web develop
ment.
As the technology moves for
ward, we really need to be an 
Internet supplier in addition to the 
PC, said Abhay Gadkari, Investors 
Relations manager for Intel.
Gadkari noted that Intel has been 
trying to expand into the e-com
merce sector since 1998, hoping to 
produce chipsets and microproces
sors for Internet strongmen Cisco 
Systems and Nortel Networks. 
Gadkari stated that Intels new 
technologies focus is two-fold.
Intel hopes to offer new back
bone support products to make 
Web sites more efficient and faster. 
Secondly, the corporation is devel
oping microprocessors necessary to 
expand the voice and data capabili
ties on wireless phones. With limit
ed amounts of flash memory, Intel 
wants to be able to make the cellu
lar phones more effective in order 
to handle new applications.
An accelerating trail of acquisi
tions over the last year has demon
strated that Intel is very serious 
about assembling a dominant com
munications portfolio. The chip 
giant has adopted an aggressive 
acquisition strategy, reminiscent of 
Cisco Systems approach for mak
ing moves into new markets: pur
chase firms with the expertise you 
need.
The acquisition binge started in 
October 1998 with Intels purchase 
of Shiva for $185 million. With 
Shiva, Intel gained an installed 
base of customers and technologies 
in remote access networking, 
including access servers, access 
concentrators, and emerging virtu
al private networking (VPN) prod
ucts for small and medium-sized 
businesses.
In March of this year, Intel 
acquired Level One for $2.2 billion. 
Level One, a leading supplier of sil
icon for high-bandwidth communi
cations, gave Intel a strong portfo
lio in both local area networks 
(LAN) and wide area networks 
(WAN).
Prior to the Intel deal, Level One 
bought Jato Technologies and 
Acclaim Communications to broad
en-its penetration into the network
ing market. With Level One, Intel 
gained both new enterprise LAN 
customers and an entry into the 
network access business on the 
telecom side.
In June, Intel acquired Dialogic, 
a vendor of computer-based tele
phony solutions, for $780 million. 
With Dialogics hardware boards, 
components, and software, Intel 
acquired a complete voice-over-IP 
package that integrates the IT and 
telecom infrastructures.
In July, Intel acquired Softcom 
Microsystems for $150 million. 
Softcom designs network proces
sors for Internet protocol (IP), 
asynchronous transfer mode 
(ATM), and other proprietary pro
tocol environments.
At the recent Intel Developer 
Forum (IDF) in Palm Springs, 
California, Intel revealed further 
signs that it is continuing to devel
op communications expertise, 
announcing the acquisition of 
NetBoost, a software firm that spe
cializes in telecommunications net
works. With NetBoost, Intel gains 
yet another foothold in the network 
server and LAN/WAN environ
ments.
Also at the Developer Forum, 
Intel announced 13 new network
ing products, including a LAN 
switch that ferries packet-based 
data transmissions quickly across 
IP networks, and a programmable 
network processor. Called the IXP 
1200, this network processor uses a 
core technology called StrongARM, 
which Intel acquired in its deal with 
Digital Equipments semiconductor 
division.
CHICAGO (AP)  Quaker Oats 
Co. stock jumped 9 percent to an 
all-time high Friday after a failed 
buyout attempt by PepsiCo set the 
stage for an expected bidding war 
for Quaker and its blockbuster 
product, Gatorade.
Industry experts said another 
bid is possible by Pepsi, despite 
having its $13.7 billion offer 
rejected as insufficient by Robert 
Morrison, head of the Chicagobased food and drinks maker. A 
source familiar with the discus
sions said Quaker turned down the . 
bid Thursday.
The big prize for a successful 
suitor: Gatorade, the sports bever
age that began in the 1960s as a 
drink for sweaty jocks but has 
exploded to runaway profits 
recently as it became a main
stream beverage.
Despite a long struggle with 
cold cereal sales, Quaker Oats has 
posted 11 straight quarters of double-digit profit gains thanks large
ly to Gatorade's more than 80 per
cent share of the growing sports 
beverage market.
Gatorade represents more than 
40 percent of company sales, with 
the rest coming from such brands 
as Quaker and Cap'n Crunch cere
als, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrup 
and Rice-A-Roni.
Gatorade is an extraordinary 
brand, said John Sicher, editor of 
Beverage Digest, an industry pub
lication. Any company with a sig
nificant presence in non-alcoholic 
beverages either has taken a look 
at Gatorade or will be taking a 
look at Gatorade in the near 
future.
Pepsi and Swiss giant Nestle are 
considered perhaps the two likeli
est bidders, with Coca-Cola, 
France's Danone and Britains 
Cadbury Schweppes also potential 
buyers. All the main cereal compa
nies are tied up with other transac
tions. Spokesmen for Quaker, 
Purchase, N.Y.-based PepsiCo and 
other prospective suitors declined 
comment Friday.
Quaker shares rose $7.44 to 
close at $89.69 Friday on the New 
York Stock Exchange and have 
now nearly doubled since March. 
PepsiCo shares, meanwhile, 
declined by $1.25, or nearly 3 per
cent, to $45.88 as its investors 
showed their disappointment in 
the missed deal.
Quaker has been rumored as a 
takeover target for years, and a 
buyout has become increasingly 
likely in a rapidly consolidating 
food industry and with Gatorade's 
rise to an $1.8 billion brand. 
PepsiCos All-Sport and CocaColas Powerade haven't ever 
threatened their long-established
 rival.
Analysts said Morrison, who 
came to Quaker as chief executive 
in 1997 from Philip Morris, where 
he successfully integrated Kraft 
and General Foods, has effectively
put the company up for sale. 
Morrison is credited with cleaning 
up Quaker after its fiasco with 
Snapple  the tea and fruit drink 
line it unloaded at a $1.4 billion 
loss the year he arrived.
Bob Morrison has begun play
ing his end game after three suc
cessful years of improving the 
company, John McMillin, who 
follows the food industry for 
Prudential Securities, wrote in a 
research note.
PepsiCo reportedly offered to 
exchange 2.2 of its shares for each 
share of Quaker  a deal repre
senting a 26 percent premium over 
Quaker's closing stock price 
Thursday.
Analysts were surprised 
Morrison turned it down, but sug
gested it was because the offer was 
in stock rather than cash.
PepsiCo, which owns the Pepsi, 
Diet Pepsi and Mountain Dew soft 
drinks, has been moving to expand 
its rion-carbonated drink portfolio, 
which currently includes Aquafina 
water, Lipton teas, Frappucino cof
fees and Tropicana juices.
Non-carbonated alternatives to 
traditional sodas have been the 
growth leaders in the soft drink 
industry.
Experts think that by making 
Gatorade available in its vending 
machines and through its interna
tional distribution network, 
PepsiCo could accelerate 
Gatorade's growth.
Bigwords.com finishes final chapter 
on unsuccessful retailing effort
(U-WIRE) AUSTIN, Texas 
Bigwords.com, an online textbook 
retailer known for its unique mar
keting techniques like bouncy balls 
and yellow jumpsuits, went out of 
business two weeks ago, but oth
ers are still going strong.
The companys Web site now 
reads Bigwords.com succumbed 
Friday, Oct. 20, to the powers that 
be.
John Bates, co-founder and self
titled chief evangelist, said the 
downward spiraling stock market 
had much to do with 
Bigwords.coms failure.
In terms of marketing, we spent 
far less than anybody and were in 
the lead, Bates said, adding that 
raising enough money to sustain 
the company was difficult.
Bigwords.com may also have fal
tered because of their nontraditional methods of advertising.
Doug Alexander, vice president 
for strategic planning and develop
ment at eCampus.com, another 
online textbook retailer, attributed 
his companys success to using 
more traditional marketing techniques that are different from 
Bigwords.coms word-of-mouth 
campaign.
We market on television, in col
lege newspapers, at the cinema, on 
local radio stations and online, 
Alexander said.
Having a strong foundation, a 
knowledge of the textbook indus
try, of the college market is the for
mula for success, Alexander 
added.
Defending their marketing prac
tices, Bates said Bigwords.com was 
familiar with college students, 
including recruiting college stu
dents as marketers.
Behind that bouncy ball and 
jumpsuit, we had respect for our 
audience, Bates said in defense of 
Bigwords.com. I call it showing 
up, personal interaction.
Sridhar Balasubramanian, a 
University of Texas assistant pro
fessor of marketing, said whichev
er company can offer the lowest 
price will get the sale, adding that 
in the textbook industry, price is 
the bottom line.
Your nearest retailer is just a
mouse click away, he said.
George H. Mitchell, president of 
the University of Texas Co-Op 
bookstore, disagreed, saying that 
convenience is more important 
than price in swaying students 
buying choices.
Its the convenience that we 
have and us having an honest 
organization, Mitchell said.
A local bookstore is an easy way 
to do book exchanges and is more 
convenient than an online seller, 
Mitchell said.
He added that about 20 per
cent of University of Texas-Austin 
students exchange their books 
during the first few weeks of 
classes. Additionally, when sell
ing back books, getting cash 
immediately is better than wait
ing for it to be reimbursed online, 
he said.
Mitchell said the future of book
stores lies in those who use tech
nology in conjunction with their 
physical retail location, using 
Barnes & Noble Booksellers, which 
also has an online retail service, as 
an example.Defaulting Web companies good for VCs
FUNDING, from page B4 
like Gazelle.com have disappeared, 
and venture capitalists are return
ing to their disciplined risk taking 
process that emphasizes manage
ment as much as investment. This 
sentiment is aptly summed up by 
experienced Pittsburgh venture 
capitalist and GSIA benefactor, 
Don Jones who says, An idea is 
worthless; its implementation is 
valuable.
And there certainly are plenty of 
ideas out there to be developed. 
Sun Microsystems CEO Scott 
McNealy asserts that being in tech
nology today is equivalent to 
entering the auto industry in 1910. 
With all the talk about the failed
Internet companies, it is easy to 
lose sight of how many opportuni
ties are really out there. In Silicon 
Valley today there are two kinds of 
technology entrepreneurs: those 
who myopically view NASDAQ as 
the ultimate yardstick of techno
logical progress and those who are 
too busy building exciting new 
technology ideas and businesses to 
notice that there was a stock mar
ket bubble.
The first group is full of fear and 
loathing, worried they will not be 
part of the next great thing, and 
feeling entitled to a piece of the 
Internet pie simply because they 
took a chance with a dotcom. The 
second group is trying to define
Carnegie Mellon
Voluu me95,Is
Food Drive
tearn@rd w.c6
with a special
ONE DAY-ONE CAN
collection on H/rij7iL 91
at the University Center
p~T~I
Tonight hundreds of people in our 
town will go hungry. Staff Council 
invites you to make a difference and...
Spread the warmth
For more information visit us at 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/~sc77/FoodDrive/
the next great thing by building 
technologies that allow informa
tion, telecommunications, curren
cy, commerce, government, enter
tainment, and businesses process
es to flow efficiently and produc
tively. The second group has the 
intellectual capital and they need 
the management experience of 
seasoned venture capitalist to help 
them. Thanks to the bizarre rise 
and fall of companies like 
Gazelle.com, it is more likely that 
these companies will succeed. As 
gonzo journalist and author of 
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, 
Hunter S. Thompson once wrote, 
Todays weirdness is tomorrow's 
reason why.
TOPFRAT
I need the animal house that will go 
gonzo to make some fat frat cash! 
No sissies! Geeks okay.
The nations leader in college 
marketing is seeking an assertive, 
energetic, entrepreneurial group to 
manage advertising and 
promotions on campus.
American Passage Media, Inc. 
Campus Rep Program 
Seattle, WA
800.487.2434 Ext.4651
campusrep@americanpassage.com

---------------------------------------------------

Announcing a New Course for the Spring Semester, 2001
Philosophy 151
God in the West:
A moral history of western religion and religious institutions, from the Old Testament to contemporary Fundamentalism
Professor Clark Glymour 
Denounced as "politically incorrect" by the previous Dean of H&SS, 
Philosophy 151 has now been approved for satisfying H&SS 
distribution requirement DCR 4: Cultural Analysis.
Topics will include: Philosophical thought versus religious thought in ancient times; the moral ideals 
of the Old Testament; what we know about Jesus; explanations of the early spread of Christiantity; 
Christianity in the Roman Empire; Mohammed and the rise of Islam; the moral perspective of Islam; 
women, slavery and sex in Christianity and Islam; medieval Catholicism and the Papacy; medieval 
Islamic culture; Islamic conquests and the Crusades; the Inquisition; the politics, theology and moral 
perspectives of the Reformation; what the technology of printing did to Christianity; Enlightenment 
philosophy and the weakening of religious power; the 19th century religious reaction against "mod
ernism"; contemporary Christian and Islamic fundamentalism.
university entrepreneurs
Contact your ITU Campus Partner at Carnegie Mellon University
Stephan Mueller (MBA, '02)
smueller@itu.com
Isovia, Inc.
$375,000
Sourced at: 
MIT-May, 2000
Technologies, Inc. 
$350,000
Sourced at:
UC Berkeley-May, 2000
Sky flow. Inc.
$500,000
Sourced at:
UC Berkeley-May, 2000
OPIENT, Inc.
$400,000
Sourced at:
UC Berkeley-June, 2000
OEwaves Corp.
Undisclosed
Sourced at: 
Caltech-August, 2000

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Local event features the worlds best movies
by Lindsay ClarkJunior Staffwriter
For all those on this campus who believe that 
Pittsburgh cant compete with the major cities 
for stimulating cinema, the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers are out to prove you wrong. Their 
latest effort, the Three Rivers Film Festival, is a 
collection of the best 32 foreign and indepen
dent films to come out in recent years, with a
FILM FESTIVAL
few antique gems thrown into the mix. The 
films represent a range of styles from documen
tary to anime and everything in between.
The festival is being held at three local the
aters: the Harris Theater, the Melwood 
Screening Room, and the Regent Square 
Theater, and is running through November 16. 
Each film will be shown three times over the 
two weeks. Some of the highlights from this 
weekend include:
The Carriers Are Waiting is a Belgian film
courtesy of Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
*2.The 19th annual Three Rivers Film Festival features 14 days of film viewing from every type of cinema 
from the US and overseas, showcasing famous directors and up-and-coming independent filmmakers.
about a man, Roger, whose need to succeed in 
this materialistic world comes close to destroy
ing his family. A local company has decided to 
give away a new car to any person in town who 
can break a world record. Roger decides to train 
his son to be the new world record holder for 
opening doors. The absurdity of this pursuit 
lends a touch of comedy to what would other
wise be a disturbing tale of how far parents will 
push their children to help them succeed. The 
film is in black and white, with very clever cine
matography. The use of perspective subtly high
lights the sometimes absurd, sometimes tragic 
nature of the film.
Such a Long Journey, an Indian film about a 
bank clerk named Gustad Noble, is a tragicome
dy dealing with the powerful and often contra
dictory feelings between friends. Gustad is a 
cynic who states fervently that friendship is 
worthless. This is a result of his best friend 
Jimmys disappearance without a trace many 
years before. The true nature of his beliefs is 
revealed, however, when Jimmy writes, asking 
for a favor. Even though the favor is dangerous, 
Gustad cannot refuse. The acting is great, espe
cially on the part of the man who plays Gustad, 
Roshan Seth (Ghand, My Beautiful Laundrette).
The Little Thief is a French movie about a 
teenage boy named Esse who, after being fired 
from his job, decides to make his living as a 
thief. He connects with a gang and begins slow
ly edging his way up the ladder of the gangs 
internal hierarchy, but Esse cant follow the 
rules of the gang just as he couldnt follow the 
rules at his job. Nicholas Duvauchelle, who 
plays Esse, bears a striking resemblance to 
James Dean, a feature that does not go unno
ticed by the films director. The movie opens up 
with a scene in which Esse is standing in front of 
a poster of the sensitive antihero, and some of 
the close up shots directly reference shots from 
East of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause. Just as 
Dean did, Duvauchelle captivates the audience 
with his quiet impudence.
Tickets are six dollars. For more information 
on the festival, go to 
www.pghfilmmakers.org/filmfest. This page has 
schedules and descriptions of the films. 
Unfortunately, it does not have directions. For 
the Regent Square Theater, get on a 61B head
ing outbound and get off at Hutchison and 
Braddock. For the Harris Theater, get on any 
bus going to Liberty Avenue. The theater is in 
the 800 block. For the Melwood Screening 
Room, you must first find someone with a car. 
Go north on Craig, turn right on Baum 
Boulevard, and left on Melwood Avenue. The 
parking is on your right, the theater is on your 
left.
Did American video kill the Canadian star?
ALL THINGS COMPARED
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Butterfly
Thursday, November 9
An internet denizen practically echoed my sentiments when 
he wrote that the movie Butterfly is maybe the best film about 
the impact of the Spanish War in Galicia. Just the other day I 
challenged some partygoers to name one film that better cap
tures the impact of the Spanish War in Galicia and every single 
one of them found more interesting people to talk with.
Speaking of parties, I was doing some relatively deep think
ing the other day about/with the help of beer, and then about 
aliens. I dont know if aliens exist, but if they do I bet theres 
some things they find absolutely hilarious about earth, espe
cially our laws governing alcohol purchase. When they first 
came here I imagine they went back and told their buddies all 
about how, after birth, the creatures who run the planet have to 
wait for it to revolve 21 times around its star before they can 
buy these certain beverages that make themselves stupid and 
get them laid. Having mastered space travel and all, the com
pletely stupid waste of both money and the lives of the law 
enforcement officers on beer duty without any possible bene
fit to society other than preventing kids from having fun and 
getting lucky must totally confound them. I bet a popular alien 
game is to shape-shift into cops and see if they can make it 
through busting a fun-loving 20-year-old college student for 
recreational drinking without laughing their big, slimy, purple 
heads off.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Me, Myself, and Irene
Friday, November 10
Rubber-faced star Jim Carrey returns to comedy after a few 
well-received forays into dramatic acting (The Truman Show, 
Man on the Moon) with this Farrelly brothers-directed comedy 
about a Rhode Island State trooper with split personalities. The 
Farrelys are known for their gross-out comedies (Theres 
Something About Mary, The Piano) and this movie looks to be a 
fitting addition to their oeuvre.
Speaking of gross-out, lets talk about the UC for a second. 
Those silly people protesting Intel and harassing me outside of 
Doherty Hall should get off their ridiculous pedestal of right
eousness and look at the real problem facing this campus: 
nakedness in the UC mens locker room. Dont get me wrong - 
I dont have any problem at all with male nudity. Its just that I 
hate seeing guys naked. Particularly the guys who wander 
around Intel-petition style, only with absolutely no pants, while 
they comb their hair, do their taxes, etc. These guys would put 
their shoes on first if they could find a way to fit their pants over 
their heads.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Hollow Man
Saturday, November 11
Kevin Bacon stars as the title character in this recent movie 
that looks nothing like The Invisible Man whatsoever. Sure, he 
plays a man. An invisible one. Cant see him at all. Still, anyone 
whos read H.G. Wells classic would know that Hollow Man is 
not a total knock-off of his novel. The commercials and trailers 
that Tve seen for this so far appear to show an amazing.display 
of special effects, particularly Bacons character, who is an 
invisible man, totally unlike the title character of Wells The 
Invisible Man.
Speaking of the human body, I find it terrible that more peo
ple dont donate blood. Unless you have a medical reason (like 
youre pregnant with the devils child) or a moral reason (like 
you are the devils child), theres no excuse. A common excuse 
is that people say theyre afraid of needles, which amuses me to 
no end. Lets begin with guys who are afraid of needles. I don't 
see what woman could possibly choose as her mate, the father 
and protector of her children, someone scared of a tiny pinch 
on their arm, or how such a guy can act tough in front of his 
buddies. Then consider women afraid of needles  good luck 
with childbirth, girls!
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Revenge of the Nerds
Sunday, November 12
Revenge of the Nerds is definitely 80s comedy at its full frontal 
nudity-showin, bad music-listenin, cheesy clothes-wearin 
finest. Check out the rising-star cast, which includes Robert 
Carradine (half-brother of Kung Fu star David) and Anthony 
Edwards (playing essentially the same character he does on ER 
only with scrubs instead of high-waters.) Also on board are 
Roseannes John Goodman, Married With Children's Ted 
McGinley and L.A. Confidentials James Cromwell.
Speaking of nerds ... nah, thats like shooting fish in a barrel. 
A big geeky barrel with lots of computers and trench coats, that 
is. Seriously, though, the characters in this movie may be con
sidered nerds, but the majority of them meet women and 
drink beer during the films 90 minutes, which is more than 
many of you can say about the past 90 months. So there.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
In McConomy Auditorium
6 November 2000 THE TARTAN Page B7
by Debra HalpernStaffwriter
Ever since Video Killed The 
Radio Star, music television has 
; swept away American culture. 
MTV started the bang, filming in 
New York City even though at first 
no one could watch the. station 
there. Quickly it swept the air
waves and ratings and spread all 
over the world from MTV Europe 
to MTV Japan. The one region of 
the world MTV failed to hit is our 
dear neighbor Canada and their 
sweet answer back is Much Music. 
Those of you who have satellites or 
digital cable have experienced the 
Canadian stations musical experi
ence. Lets look at a point-by-point 
comparison:
MTV
The Players: Hot American hosts 
who are eye candy for everyone, 
whether you are a teenage girl 
swooning for Carson Daly or an 
older man who loves Ananda.
The Concept: Once upon a time if 
you dug music videos, MTV was 
; the place to tune in. But todays 
MTV is all about melodramas from 
Undressed, Real World and Road 
Rules or whos the latest teen 
scream on TRL.
Much Music
The Players: Everything from a 
! host with a funny Canadian accent 
| to a talking sock.
I The Concept: Music videos and 
; music. Whether its intimate and 
! interactive or combat zone, its 
; music all the time on Much Music.
; (Not including morning infomer1 cials.)
Who really is the original?
MTV came first, but is it still the 
original? In the 1980s when MTV
first launched they had original 
style, which was set in a TV studio 
form. There was nothing special 
about it except the raw immature 
nature. MTV was pure fun, but 
that has all changed. Now MTV has 
entered the commercialized world 
of music and the whole game has 
changed. They are still semi-crazy, 
but never like before. For instance, 
while the Video Music Awards 
once had crazy antics like Howard 
Stern flying from the ceiling as 
Fart Man, now youre more likely 
to see Fred Durst making an 
appearance with Christina 
Aguilera. MTV claims their show is 
the biggest party, but Much Music 
has it beat. Their music awards 
show is a party that is televised. It 
is quite unique in its nature 
because it still has performances
and acceptance speeches, but 
instead of there being a audience, 
the rock stars are dancing and get
ting drunk right in front of the 
camera.
In fact, Much Music does a lot of 
things better than MTV. The battle 
of the bands, according to MTV is 
done through TRL, a show where 
the audience emails or calls MTV 
and requests their favorite video; 
the top ten then get aired. Much 
Music takes a different approach: 
they have two shows to cover audi
ence appeal. The first is Much On 
Demand, where for an hour every 
day (including weekends) the 
audience can phone, fax or email 
the station with requests. The ben
efit of this program is Much Music 
will play old school music, unlike 
MTV, and if only one person
Regan Heller/Art Staff
requests the video they will play it, 
instead of making it a countdown. 
Much Musics other program that 
matches up with TRL is Combat 
Zone. This show, which plays once 
a week, has two videos face off and 
by the end of the hour whoever 
gets more votes is the champion. 
MTV wasnt even the first to bring 
the Who Wants To Be A VJ? con
cept on the air; it was long after 
Much Music invented the concept.
Its hard to believe that the 
Canadian competition is beating 
American television. They even 
have more variety and appeal to all 
audiences by playing everything  
literally. This does not make Much 
Music original, because they are 
what MTV once was. Now, howev
er, MTV is the music industrys 
biggest sell-out.

---------------------------------------------------

B8THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
New Music
Debut album houses promise
Pittsburgh in early December. The first single from No 
Name Face, Hanging by a Moment, is increasingly 
receiving airplay on The X, and is a favorite among the 
female listeners. The romantic declarations, Im 
falling even more in love with you; Im standing here 
until you make me move, are like poetic lines of a love 
letter.
The title No Name Face suggests a theme throughout 
the album. The various references to a shamed face 
and changing faces relate to the writers seeking of 
grace, truth, constancy, and ultimately a name to give 
to himself. For example, in Somebody Elses Song, 
the plea for identity is written, Ive got somebody 
elses thoughts in my head; I want some of my own.
The longing of the lyrics is like a diary of the writers 
private thoughts, and the honesty of each word lingers 
in the mind as soft-scented perfume lingers on the 
skin. Moreover, the mood of the album is not angstridden but almost bittersweet. There exists a sense of 
incompleteness but theres also a sense of hope, a 
grasping on to a source of stability. In Everything the 
words are directed towards the one who gives the 
writer strength, light, and love and who essentially is 
everything that he desires.
The penetrating words of this album are situated in 
a mellow rock atmosphere that blends acoustic and 
electric sounds with an occasional viola or tam
bourine. Most importantly, Wades deep, throaty voice 
stands out as the source that expressively generates 
the emotions associated with the lyrics and the music.
All in all, Lifehouse has a gentleness in their songs 
that soothes but at the same time poses vital issues to 
the whole of humanity, its vulnerabilities and its 
weaknesses, concerning the complexities of life. 
Ultimately, this band, still fresh to the public, is gradu
ally living out the theme of the album by attempting to 
create a lasting name for itself in the world of music.
PSO succeeds in generating fun
CONCERT REVIEW
Artist: Lifehouse Title: No Name Face Label: Dreamworks
Final Grade: Aby Jennifer SchauppJunior Staffwriter
Released on October 31, 2000, the debut album No 
Name Face from the alternative rock group Lifehouse 
was brought to life for the public to hear. Founded in 
1996 by lead vocalist and songwriter Jason Wade and 
bassist Sergio Andrade, Lifehouse is now a quartet 
residing in Los Angeles. Promoting the new album, the 
band is currently touring, making an appearance in
Limp Bizkit fails to display talent
limp bizkitpresents
Artist: Limp Bizkit Title: Chocolate Starfish and 
the Hot Dog Flavored Water Label: FIip/interscope
Final Grade: Dby Ryan HamiltonJunior Staffwriter
Limp Bizkits latest effort starts off unpromisingly 
with a distorted Simple Talk imitation informing us 
that This is not a test. This is reality. Worldwide. Its 
unfortunate that it never really improves significantly 
from that point. The album focuses on themes of scatU2s latest work among their best
Artist: U2Title: All That You Can't 
Leave Behind Label: Polygram
Final Grade: A
by Ryan FriedmanStaffwriter
The 80s hottest rock ticket, U2, leaves nothing 
behind as they go back to their roots in their 10th 
studio album and the first of the new millennium. 
Regarded by many hardcore fans as their best album 
since Achtung Baby, All That You Cant Leave Behind
takes the listener back to a time before the synthesiz
er to a more traditional guitar-driven sound. The 
theme of a new beginning plays a dominant role in 
the new album with such songs as Beautiful Day 
and Stuck In the Moment plus the overall classic 
U2 sound found throughout the entire album. Fans 
and even non-fans of the band should seriously con
sider adding this album to their music library, for it 
will be one of the years best new releases.
Since 1978 U2 has sold over 100 million albums 
and continues to sell even more. The band originated 
in Dublins Mount Temple High School and has 
become one of the most influential rock bands of the 
late twentieth century. The band has grown tremen
dously throughout the years by overcoming their 
obstacles and discovering themselves and their 
sound in the process. One of the most fascinating 
aspects of U2 is that in their 22 years together not 
one member has left or joined, emphasizing the 
bands unity and loyalty to one another and their 
craft. The band was one of three bands (The Beatles 
and The Who) to be put on the front cover of Time 
magazine and was labeled as Rocks hottest ticket 
after their 1987 release of Joshua Tree. This honor 
was given to U2 because they caved their own niche 
in 80s rock because their upbeat and cheery sounds 
preserved the sound of rock and separated them 
from the bleak outlook of their New Wave contempo
raries.
The new album, All That You Cant Leave Behind, 
continues in the basic caring and empathetic feelings 
found in the majority of U2s songs. Peace On Earth 
is U2s tribute to the victims of the Omagh, Northern 
Ireland bombing, and Ive yet to hear anything that 
evokes so much emotion. The album definitely has 
heart and is true to the bands roots. Rock on!
ological humor (in the form of the endlessly repeated 
album title) and Fred Dursts paranoid schizophrenia, 
which causes the lyrics to alternate mindlessly 
between hyped-up braggadocio and claustrophobic 
ideas about why everyone hates him and his red hat.
The album is musically void of content, with Durst 
blithely slipping from clich to clich (the chorus of 
My Way, amusingly enough, is My way/or the 
highway) over the same monotonous trudge, track 
after track. He routinely slips in hooks from past hits, 
presumably in a show of wit, without ever realizing 
why its so easy to do that (they have a serious lack of 
new beats) or why he needs to (a corresponding lack 
of new hooks). At one point theyre even forced to rip 
off Nine Inch Nails in a pathetic attempt at parody (a 
retaliation for a perceived insult to Durst in Reznors 
latest video, Starfuckers, Inc.)
That catchiest track, and lead single, is Rollin (air 
raid vehicle), a song about well, Limp Bizkit screw
ing the track up. Other than this, ahem, bright spot, 
the tracks are virtually indistinguishable, with the 
exception of The One, a fascinating (in the carwreck sense) attempt by the Bizkit at a love song. 
Amusingly, in Take a Look Around, Durst attributes 
his critics disdain for him to our societys tendencies 
toward hatred, rather than anything he might actual
ly be responsible for. The general impression I had 
was that the album was pumped out in far too little 
time, with far too little attention to quality, and far 
too great a swagger.
There is the possibility that the album is a joke at 
our expense: an endlessly self-referential self-parody, 
taking the bands critics stereotypes about them and 
exaggerating them to the point of absurdity. This 
view is even given some validity by the closing track, 
Outr, which features an unnamed gentlemen 
laughing uncontrollably at the band. Even if this is 
the case, you have to wonder why they bothered to 
release it. Other than the cool million it sold in its first 
week, I mean.
by Paul RichelmiJunior Staffwriter
Last weekend, the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra (PSO) per
formed at Heinz Hall. Maestro 
Mariss Jansons led them in unique 
interpretations of Beethovens Sixth 
Symphony in F Major, the 
Pastorale, Prokovievs First Violin 
Concerto in D Major, and selections 
from The Three Cornered Hat, com
posed by Manuel de Falla. This was 
Maestro Jansons return to the PSO, 
after his stint with the New York 
Philharmonic last week for a 
Halloween performance.
The program opened with 
Beethovens Pastorale Symphony. 
It is a work in five movements, with 
the final three played without 
pause. Jansons gave the upbeat, 
and the orchestra entered with the 
beautiful opening motive. The 
strings were soft and serene to 
start, but they soon proved that 
they could play meatily as well. 
The singing violins in the treble 
wonderfully complimented the 
hearty sound of the celli and bass in 
the lower registers. However, 
Jansons interpretation of the first 
movement was quite unorthodox, 
and he gave the audience a new 
way to listen to the piece. His 
tempo was noticeably slower than it 
traditionally is. The subtitle for the 
first movement is awakening of 
cheerful feelings upon arriving in 
the country. Jansons did not stay 
true to the score here, as he had the 
orchestra sounding detached and 
sluggish. The bowing of the first 
violins was highly marcato, making 
it sound disjointed. However, the 
interpretation was an interesting 
one, giving contrast to the second 
and third movements.
The second movement was stark
ly different from the first, showing 
the orchestras lyrical playing abili
ties and softness. The muted 
strings lay serene groundwork for 
the winds. This very flowy move
ment, expertly played by the 
orchestra, most definitely stood out 
in the symphony, and led into the 
final three movements.
The subtitle of the third move
ment is merry gathering of coun
try folk, and the orchestra certain
ly stayed true to this title. The brisk 
opening and staccato bowing of the 
violins, and brief, crisp clarinet 
interludes gave a mental image of 
the merry gathering of country 
folk. It was quite a happy move
ment, and the excellent leadership 
of concertmaster Andres Cardenes 
was obvious. He led the first violin 
section without fail.
The final two movements were a 
perfect conclusion, again demon
strating the dynamic range of the 
orchestra. The loud fourth move
ment led nicely into the peaceful 
and serene fifth. Somehow teasing 
the listener, the fifth movement 
builds to grandiosity, and then 
tapers off, ending the piece exactly 
how it started, as a whisper. 
Beethovens masterful Sixth 
Symphony is full of visual images; a 
truly phantasmagoric piece.
After intermission, the perfor
mance continued with Prokovievs 
First Violin Concerto in D Major. It 
was performed by Russian violinist, 
Vladimir Spivakov. Taking a 
Heifitz-like posture, he stood in 
front of his music stand, as the con
certo was not memorized. He 
opened with an amazingly clear 
sound, and he seemed to be playing 
on air. He did not seem to be com
fortable on stage though, and his 
faulty shifts and questionable into
nation in the first movement con' firmed that feeling. Throughout 
the piece, he seemed to be strug
gling with it, and almost fighting it. 
His bow technique was stellar; he 
was able to perform lightning fast
spicatto and flying staccato bows 
without trouble.
His superb bowing, but stiff left 
hand, continued through the sec
ond and third movements. While 
he played well overall, Spivakov 
struggled for clarity in some places, 
especially on the Sul-G bit in the 
second movement. He played with 
the orchestra very nicely, commu
nicating with Jansons well during 
the performance, giving the piece a 
nice ensemble effect. Despite hav
ing some rough spots, Spivakov 
played the concerto superbly. 
While most of the performance 
lacked emotion, it was an enter
taining interpretation of the con
certo.
The concert ended with selec
tions from Manuel de Fallas ballet, 
The Three-Cornered Hat. The loud 
opening gave the tympani and 
brass some fun, as they played over 
stunning ethereal material from the 
violins. This piece was enjoyable to 
listen to, and the orchestra seemed 
to have a great time playing it. The 
winds had glorious flowing and 
very Spanish-sounding themes, 
and the first violins interrupted 
with wonderfully romantic runs. 
De Falla relied heavily on rhythm, 
and the first movement made me 
want to hear castanets. I had to 
wait until the fourth and final 
movement to hear them, but it was 
no hardship. The inner movements 
were as full of Spanish romanticism 
as the outer two. The final move
ment sounded like a fandango, and 
had a forward-moving pulse. Every 
section proved itself to be fantastic 
in this piece, and the PSO showed 
yet again why they are one of the 
best orchestras on the planet.
Join the PSO and Maestro Jansons 
next week for a heavy and deep pro
gram, as they perform Gustav 
Mahlers 3rd symphony at Heinz 
Hall.
New book proves to be intellectual
BOOK REVIEW
by Danny A. SilitongaJunior Staffwriter
For over 25 years, Partisan Review (PR) was the 
countrys most well respected journal. Its authority 
extended beyond literature and polemics and went 
into policies and politics. Hannah Arendts Eichmann 
in Jerusalem, stirred up discussions and debates
Partisans by David Laskin 
Simon & Schuster
PARTISANS :
 ::
Final Grade: B
across continents. Robert Lowells confessional poems 
introduced a new breed of poetry.
David Laskins Partisans: Marriage, Politics, and 
Betrayal Among the New York Intellectuals portrays the 
lives of these PR writers, who came of age in the midst 
of Great Depression before World War II and rose to 
fame and stardom on the strength of work published 
primarily on PR. Although Lowell and Edmund Wilson 
are the most respected members, Partisan focuses on 
the lives of 3 women writers: Elizabeth Harwick, 
Hannah Arendt, and the celebrated bitch, Mary 
McCarthy.
McCarthy is portrayed as an intelligent, brilliant, 
writer who ultimately assended to the top of the then 
male-dominated literary world. Yet McCarthys suc-cess was not without challenges. When she first joined
PR, she was assigned to write theater reviews, since 
the PR boys thought that she had much talent to do 
anything else. She rose to prominence with the publi
cation of her fiction and with her marriage to the journalist-guru, Edmund Wilson. Her marriage to Wilson, 
as Laskin reports, failed several years later  and so 
did her second and third marriages. She claimed that 
Wilson beat her up, and he claimed that McCarthy 
beat him up.
Another women writer who eventually became one 
of the PR boys is Hannah Arendt. She immigrated to 
this country with her husband from Hitlers Germany. 
With the publication of The Origins of 
Totalitarianism, Arendt became the intellectuals 
intellectual. Every Saturday afternoon, the New York 
School of intellectuals  Lowell and Lionel Trilling 
included  gathered around Arendt in her apartment 
in Riverside Drive as they discussed philosophy and 
politics. Some of Arendts enemies criticized her for 
her vast knowledge on classical philosophy, saying 
about her Who do you think she is? Plato.
The only surviving women writer of the three, 
Elizabeth Hardwick, came to New York City from a 
small town in the Midwest. After dropping out of 
Columbia, she joined the PR and ultimately became 
the journals most authoritative book critic. She and 
Lowell, to whom she was married for almost a decade, 
founded the influential journal: New York Review of 
Books. On its pages, Hardwick trashed McCarthys 
novel, The Group. McCarthy never forgave her for it.
Partisans devotes most of its pages to the above 
three self-promoted matriarchs. Hence it undermines 
the importance of other members of the New York 
School. Although Jean Staffords work is now largely 
unread, she is, arguably, the most artistic writer 
among the New York School evidenced by her novel 
The Mountain Lion. Additionally, the PR male writers 
whom these women were married to or whom these 
matriarchs had affairs with, for example Clement 
Greenberg, who had a fling with Mary McCarthy, 
never receive much attention, unless their lives unrav
el certain detail information of the intimate lives of 
these women writers.
Partisans provides an exposure to the soap opera 
lives of the 1950s intellectuals. I certainly enjoyed it.
Re-discover Bon Jovi at Mellon Arena
PITTSBURGH, from page B12
year so we can show off our talent in one specific 
endeavor, when you could actually pay $2 to show off 
any gift you desire at the Open Mic Night this Friday 
at the Womens Center, 5 Margaret Morrison Plaza. It 
took Joey Lawrence a long time until he discovered that 
he could sing. Think about how much time and effort he 
would have saved had he gone to Open Mic Night. Dont 
be like Joey Lawrence. Discover your talent as soon as 
you can. You could sign up to perform at the event at 7 
pm. (Or you could just sit back and watch starting at 8 
pm.)
 11-11-00. For ECE majors, it means 3-3-0. But for 
seniors, its the last chance to catch a CMU football 
game. This Saturday at 1 pm in Gesling Stadium, the 
Tartans play Gannon University to close out the 
season. In celebration, there will be a raffle for VIP seat
ing, gift certificates, movie passes, and other giveaways 
in addition to free food. Admission to the game is free 
with a CMU ID.
 Theres no better way to cap off your week of music 
with one of CMLTs finest, quartet-in-residence The
Cuarteto Latinoamericano. Since their inception 
in Mexico almost 20 years ago, this string quartet has 
become a unique voice in classical music, bringing the 
works of Latin American composers to concert audi
ences around the world. After a performance in 
Caracas, Venezuela last week, the next concert for the 
group is in the Mellon Institute Auditorium this 
Saturday at 3 pm. The performance will feature the U.S. 
premiere of the string quartet Calligraphies, written 
by Reza Vali, faculty composer in the School of Music. 
Tickets are $10 for general admission, $8 for students 
and senior citizens. For tickets and information call 
268-2383.
 And how could I possibly forget Bon Jovi? Hes 
also coming to Pittsburgh this Sunday at the Mellon 
Arena, Downtown. Just when you thought that he was 
focusing on a new career as an actor (Pay It Forward, LI571), hes back with a new album (Crush), a new single 
(Its My Life), and a new tour. The concert is on 
Sunday night at 7:30 pm. Tickets are still available at all 
Ticketmaster locations, including NRM, Giant Eagle, 
and Kaufrnanns stores.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
THE TARTAN PIZZA DELIVERY SHOWDOWN
FOOD REVIEW
Instead, of going out to review 
restaurants this week, The Tartan 
reviewers decided to stay in their 
domiciles and let the food come to 
them. What better way to spend the 
evening eating at home than to order 
a fresh pizza, straight from the oven 
(at least thats what those generic 
pizza boxes say) ?
But before you order another pizza, 
make sure you read this sampling of 
local delivery places first so you can 
make an informed decision.
Brooklyn Pizza
Deep down in the heart of 
Pittsburgh, amidst the universities, 
museums, and unbearably exciting 
steel factories, lies a little piece of 
New York: Brooklyn Pizza. This 
restaurant, which interestingly 
enough boasts of being voted Best 
Pizza in Brooklyn for three years 
running, is in fact nearer than you 
may think: 216 N. Craig Street, just 
a few blocks past the Fifth Avenue 
intersection.
We decided to test out the alleged 
Best Pizza in Brooklyn one 
Thursday night, but upon calling to 
place an order, I was informed that 
deliveries were not available. that 
night, but to come on in and enjoy 
the dining room. Okay, so it was
nt exactly a dining room, but the 
food certainly produced a decent 
dining experience. The eatery, 
which held about three tables and 
two employees, is arguably not the 
biggest incentive for sampling 
Brooklyn Pizza. Nonetheless, the 
menu features a large variety of 
meals beyond your standard pizzas, 
including salads, subs, and an 
impressive selection of wings.
As for pizza, of course, they can 
be traditionally prepared or with a 
number of toppings or specialties 
(including Sicilian, deluxe, meat 
eaters, vegetarian, or even 
Hawaiian). A typical large pizza 
(16", 12 slices) with one topping 
runs at $9.60, or per (plain) slice at 
$1.25. We sampled three types: one 
plain, one with ham and black 
olives, and finally, one with pepper
oni. Service was prompt if nothing 
else, and our respective slices were 
prepared in approximately five min
utes; Brooklyn, Pizzas cooking tech
nique is to mass produce standard 
plain pizzas and then sprinkle on 
toppings of your choice and pop it in 
the oven for a few moments. In 
other words, if youre expecting to 
see your meal freshly rolled out, 
tossed, and baked, youll probably 
want to cover your eyes after plac
ing an order, or at least attempt the 
delivery option. The pizzas were 
surprisingly good, however, not too 
greasy or too thick or thin, with one 
fault being crusts a little burnt and 
too crunchy for the average eater. 
Keeping in perspective the low price 
and speedy preparation, overall, the 
meal was a rather good deal.
Brooklyn Pizza is a nice change of 
pace from your standard Pizza 
Outlet or Papa Johns fare. Although 
we ran into bad luck for deliveries 
on this night for one reason or 
another, rest assured that Brooklyn 
Pizza does in fact deliver  free 
with a $10 minimum order  to the 
CMU area, with a promise of taking 
approximately 30 minutes to do so. 
Although I might not go so far as to 
dub it the Best Pizza in Brooklyn, 
they were, in my humble opinion, 
definitely the best pizza on Craig 
Street. Greasy? Sure, the workers 
were a tad bit, but hey, theyre work
ing hard to bring good pizza to you. 
Go ahead and check it out.
 KRISTIN LALA
Italian Village
Last Wednesday I was sitting at 
home watching The West Wing when 
a sudden pang of hanger came over 
me. Not wanting to miss a moment 
of perhaps the most brilliant hour of 
prime time television, I reached for 
the phone to order a pizza. There 
was one problem  I couldnt 
decide where to get the pizza from. 
Then my mind started to wander.
A couple of summers ago I was 
traveling on a train from Basle to 
Milan through Switzerland. Shortly 
after crossing the Swiss border into 
Italy we stopped at the small alpine 
border town of Domodussulo. It 
was a very picturesque Italian vil
lage. What struck me was that there 
was a small pizzeria next to the sta
tion. As I sat in front of the TV it 
suddenly hit me  Italian Village 
Pizza.
I reached for the phone again and
dialed the familiar digits. Half an 
hour later a hot, steaming pepperoni pizza arrived at my door. I took 
the lonely pie in and quickly 
acquainted it with my living room 
table. After sprinkling a dash of red 
pepper on the pizza, I bit into what 
can only be described as pizza heav
en. As far as Pittsburgh pizzerias go, 
Italian Village is simply the best.
It is always difficult to establish 
exactly what it is about a good pizza 
that makes it so special. When it 
comes to Italian Village Pizza, I 
think I have it figured out. The com
bination of crust, tomato sauce and 
cheese is nearly perfect. When you 
eat a slice, it is nearly impossible to 
say that there is too much of any one 
ingredient. At most pizza places 
theres too much cheese, or the 
crust is too thick.
Further, the quality of ingredients 
used at Italian Village seems to be 
particularly good. The cheese is not 
too salty or greasy, and the tomato
sauce is more than just tomatoes. 
Two of my favorite toppings are pepperoni and ham.
Italian Village pizza is also amaz
ing value. If its just you eating, and 
you are eating at their shop then 
consider their special  two large 
pieces of cheese pizza with a drink 
for just $2.99. If youre with a 
group, or want to order in their larg
er pizzas start at $9.99 and are good 
for three or four people. So next 
time you need a good pizza in a 
hurry, remember that Italian village 
deep in the European Alps.
 ASEEM GUPTA
Larry & Carols
Suggest Larry & Carols in 
response to Where should we order 
from? and the reaction is likely to 
be as lukewarm as the forthcoming 
pie. Larry & Carols doesnt seem to 
be held in very high favor among 
students on campus. With erratic 
delivery times and their food reput
ed to be less than spectacular, their 
most redeeming quality may well be 
that they are open later than a few 
other pizza shops.
Or so I thought.
My first experience with Larry & 
Carols was a few years ago when I 
was working at the Donner Desk. I 
ordered a plain deep-dish pizza. It 
took forever to arrive, the crust tast
ed freezer burnt, and the sauce was 
icky. Earlier this semester, however, 
I had the pleasure of eating their 
Pizza Duo while a CS geek friend 
helped me with programming. The 
pizza was delivered to the CS 
lounge in about 25 minutes; it was 
hot, it was delicious, it was better 
than programming. My only com
plaint was it was very greasy, but 
that was easily remedied with paper 
towels and blotting. The experience 
led me to not mind at all when I was 
asked to review Larry & Carols.
To refresh my memory, a friend 
and I again ordered the fondly 
remembered Pizza Duo, this time 
with spinach. We placed the order 
on a Wednesday night at 6:30 from 
the West Wing Desk. We were told it 
would arrive in 30-45 minutes. 
Unfortunately, it did not arrive for 
an hour and a half, which is about
the time my replacement also 
showed up. We took the pizza to the 
Tech Lounge, where we feasted 
under the painted gazes of stodgy 
old men from years past. Once 
again, the pizza was delicious. 
Either the spinach mopped up the 
grease or the pizza simply wasnt as 
greasy. Pizza Duo is a sort of weird 
concoction consisting of two crusts 
with cheese and sauce between and 
more cheese and sauce plus whatev
er topping on top. I like to eat my 
pizza in a top down manner  layer 
by layer  so the many layers this 
pizza offers made me very happy.
An eight cut medium pie with one 
topping cost us $10.60 with tax. I 
was full after two pieces, but I man
aged to eat a third. A medium will 
definitely feed three people  we 
had leftovers. Unfortunately for me, 
one of my fellow desk attendants 
decided to eat the pieces I left in the 
fridge. While this makes me happy 
that I adopted my brothers child
hood policy of spitting on leftover 
food, it means no day-old pizza 
review for you.
I decided to give Larry & Carols 
another chance to prove their relia
bility in the delivery area on a 
Friday afternoon. I ordered a small 
deep dish pizza with spinach  
they do not offer either of my other 
favorite toppings, broccoli and 
pineapple  at two oclock. It cost 
me $8.83 and arrived in the 
promised half-hour this time. There 
was no freezer burned taste. The 
crust was thick and bready enough 
to satisfy the carbohydrate addict in 
me while lacking the oil-soaked I 
shouldnt be eating this feel offered 
by some chains. The sauce is a little 
too chunky for my tastes, but Larry 
& Carols has convinced me to dis
card my old opinions about them.
If you dont mind the possibility of 
waiting an hour and a half for your 
pizza, and you accept the fact that 
sometimes (I am told) they just 
never show up, Larry & Carols is 
definitely worth the gamble. Let 
your munchies and your patience be 
your guide. Yum.
 JODI PONIEWAZ
Papa Johns
I have come to the conclusion that 
pizza delivery was created with col
lege students in mind, a food service 
conducive to laziness that allows 
customers to have a smorgasbord 
without leaving the confines of their 
own room. The convenience and 
relative cheapness of delivery pizza 
are much of the reason that it is the 
ultimate fuel for college hijinx and 
tomfoolery.
Part of the appeal of this college 
staple is the choices involved. 
Empty-bellied students are able to 
pick from a multitude of pizza deliv
ery services and essentially tele-create their own pizza to satisfy their 
voracious appetites.
But, a good pizza delivery place is 
hard to come by these days. Most 
are either overpriced or serve sec
ond-rate pizza, which is why Papa 
Johns pizza delivery is such a find. 
Because its a national chain, Papa 
Johns is able to charge lower prices 
and make better pizza more effi
ciently, giving it an invaluable edge 
over pricey, crappy, smaller chains.
Thrust into the cruel, harsh world 
of higher education without moth
ers to serve them meals or money to 
pay for service at a restaurant, col
lege students relish the novelty of 
having food served to them. This is 
why service is such an important 
part of pizza delivery and why it is 
imperative that Papa Johns 
improves theirs. Upon calling, I was 
put on hold for quite a long time and 
the delivery took a little longer than 
expected. The deliveryman, howev
er, was a-okay. He was friendly, 
helpful, and most important: he 
didnt prompt a tip by waiting 
around with his hand out but, 
rather, was headed back for his car 
when I offered the monetary grati
tude.
When it comes down to it, the 
most important factor in the judg
ment of pizza delivery is the food. 
As should be expected, Papa Johns
hasmastered the default topping, 
cheese. Though the sauce lacks suf
ficient flavor, the slices have cohe
sion (evidenced by the fact that the 
cheese sticks to the pizza and does
nt p'eel off like a sticker). 
Carnivores take note: Papa Johns 
meat toppings are excellent. Their 
Canadian bacon and pepperoni (Its 
situated under the cheese: a nice 
touch) taste so fresh it makes you 
wonder if Papa Johns doesnt have 
their own pig-stocked butcher shop 
behind the kitchen. The vegetables, 
on the other hand, are nothing to 
waste money calling home about. 
What makes up for the pizzas few 
downfalls, though, are the decora
tive peppers and tasty garlic sauce 
included in the box.
It is an established fact that the 
amount of grease on a pizza is 
telling of the pies quality. Not only 
is pizza grease a caloric evil that 
leaks all over your hands, its a fire 
hazard. Papa Johns has taken note 
of this and reduced the amount of 
grease on their pizza, making for a 
much more enjoyable eating experi
ence.
All things considered, the service 
may leave something to be desired, 
but Papa Johns pizza delivery is a 
step above the rest and the pizza is 
worth the wait. Papa Johns superi
ority is reinforced with each succes
sive pizza slice consumed. 
Unfortunately, the price cant be 
covered by CMlTs DineX Monopoly 
money but, rather, real American 
currency straight from your wallet. 
But, in this connoisseurs humble 
opinion, its a small price to pay for 
pizza greatness.
 ANDREW McKEON
Pizza Outlet
Pizza may become breakfast, 
lunch, and dinner for many students 
as soon as they step outside the nur
turing and healthiness of their 
mothers kitchen. However, I have 
been able to avoid substituting Pepsi 
for milk and pepperoni pizza for vir
tually everything else. Throughout 
the years of eating at fast food joints 
(ie: McDonalds, Carls Jr.-west coast 
chain, Dominos Pizza) I have con
cluded that unless youre really
starving; hamburgers and fish fillet 
sandwiches dont really appease 
your hunger nor satisfy your taste 
buds.
Now, as for ordering pizza, I have 
depended on that for meals as often 
as students cook their own meals  
hardly ever. So, when I had the 
opportunity to try out one of the 
more frequently chosen pizza 
chains in the Oakland area, I felt it 
was perhaps long overdue for me to 
call up and say, One large, one top
ping pizza with extra cheese 
please.
When I called up Pizza Outlet on 
Wednesday night, I was actually a 
bit anxious to see how it would all 
turn out. The man on the phone was 
quick and nice, taking my order for 
one large, one-topping pizza, with 
an order of breadsticks as well. The 
total, a mere $9 and change for tax 
can even be put on your DineXpress 
or CampusXpress which is definitely 
a plus for CMU first-years who have
loads of it to use up. The delivery 
man came 45 minutes later carrying 
the yummy-smelling pizza and 
breadsticks. Unfortunately, the guy 
was less than peppy and seemed 
quite disenchanted with his job, so 
the service was lacking a little.
Finally, judgement time came and 
as I bit into the pizza, I found that it 
could have been warmer and 
cheesier but the crust was tasty and 
just right, not too crunchy and not 
too soft. Pizza Oudet also throws in 
garlic dipping sauce for the crust 
which is oily, but a good compli
ment to the pizza nevertheless. The 
breadsticks were surprisingly good, 
almost as delicious as the ones at 
Olive Garden!
 CORY TONG
Pizza Perfectta
Its Friday night, around the usual 
dinner time hour, and you develop a 
craving for some pizza. Well look no 
further than Pizza Perfectta in 
Shadyside. Give them a call and per
haps the person on the other end 
might know where you live better 
than you do.
After ordering a large pizza with 
mushrooms and giving my phone 
number and address to Pizza 
Perfectta one Friday night, I was 
told that it would take a half-hour to 
45 minutes for the free delivery. 
Plus, the person who answered said 
he could hook me up with a dis
count (most likely for college stu
dents) so the price came to only 
$8.85 instead of the usual $10.40 
price. Although I was starving and 
really didnt want to waste a good 
part of the hour waiting for the 
delivery guy, I reminded myself of 
the busy hour I was calling. 
Amazingly a phone call came 20 
minutes later from the delivery guy 
saying he would be at my dorm in 
about 45 seconds. I didnt time it, 
but he arrived at the front entrance 
of the dorm on time. After getting 
my pizza, paying the bill, and get
ting change to the utmost courtesy, 
the delivery guy even held the door 
open for me so I could back into my 
dorm.
Once back in my room I worried 
about getting my desk oily from the
pizza box, but I found no greasy 
stains eating away at the bottom of 
the box. After settling down, I final
ly got a good look at the pizza. It 
was the usual pizza from the aver
age pizza parlor, thin and dry. 
Actually, it was a little too dry; you 
probably couldnt blot grease off 
with a paper towel even if you want
ed to. The slices varied in size inter
estingly as some were half the size 
of the others. There were plenty of 
mushrooms in almost every bite and 
the pizza is even edible when cold.
Now the circumstances with your 
delivery may be different but if 
youre in the mood for some pizza at 
the last minute on any given night, 
Pizza Perfectta is the place to call.
 HELEN YU
Pizza Rialto
I like to think of Rialto as the ulti
mate pizza place for college stu
dents. Located in Greenfield, on the 
other side of Schenley Park, its a bit 
too far of a walk from campus, but 
in every other way its perfect. They 
deliver quickly, theyre reasonably 
priced, they take credit cards, theyll 
take orders via the Web, and they 
have almost every fast-food item 
under the sun. Oh yeah, and their 
food isnt bad either.
I am an old hand at ordering 
delivery food from Rialto, having 
spent two years in dorms, three 
years desk attending, and my entire 
college career pretending to be too 
busy to cook. Some of my favorite 
delivery items from them, both for 
value and for reasonably low fat 
content (okay, for a pizza place) are 
the complete dinners. For five and a 
half to seven dollars plus tip, you get 
a large serving of pasta, a side salad, 
and a big ol piece of garlic bread. 
The pasta can be with or without 
meat and while it comes with melt
ed cheese on top by default, theyll 
take it off if you like. Same thing 
goes for their gyros and chicken 
gyros platters; for $5.35, you get a 
sandwich and your choice of deepfried side. Not a bad deal. For the 
even less health-conscious, theres 
pizza (regular, pan, and specialty), 
strombolis, calzones, wedgies, hoagies (regular and specialty), dinner 
salads, and a large, variety of deepfried appetizers. Craving stuffed 
jalapenos? Fried cheese sticks? 
Pierogies? Rialto will provide. For 
dessert, theyll also deliver softserve chocolate or vanilla ice cream. 
And its always gotten to me in 45 
minutes or less. If you go to their 
store in Greenfield, you can even get 
beer. Its an embarrassment of junkfood riches.
In this context, it may not matter 
to you so much whether the food is 
really good, so long as its passable. 
Luckily, you get the best of both 
worlds: most of their menu items 
are pretty good. The calzones are 
thick and gooey with cheese, the 
appetizers hot and not overly 
greasy, the salads fresh and not 
drowned in dressing. The hoagies 
are a bit thin and overloaded with 
iceberg lettuce, not 0-quality  
but then, what sandwich is? The 
pizza itself is not exceptional, but 
its plenty good enough, and the 
more Pittsburgh it is, the-better they 
do it  for a good starchy meal, 
order pierogie pizza. Even the deepfried items, which tend to get gross 
in direct proportion to how much 
theyve cooled off, are good; their 
French fries are rumored to be 
excellent.
The lazy and the geeky among 
you may be especially interested in 
Rialtos option to order online. In 
the interest of completeness, I visit
ed their website (actually just a 
menu off of www.food.com), and 
found decidedly mixed results. The 
menu is fairly complete, listing 
everything they sell by type (pizza, 
dinners, beverages, etc., plus spe
cials), but in order to get there, you 
have to enter your address and click 
through a couple of useless and 
graphics-heavy list pages first  an 
unnecessary pain in the butt. Also, 
they seem to have forgotten to list 
their pizza toppings, which strike 
me as kind of an essential compo
nent of a pizza places menu. All in 
all, while its a good option for peo
ple who are stuck someplace with
out a paper menu, I would advise 
going downstairs to the desk atten
dant and asking for a menu (if you 
have that option) instead of using 
their website. You geek.
Rialto is located at 623 Greenfield 
Ave. in Greenfield. To order, call 
421-2121 or visit their menu at 
www.food.com.
 LORELEI LAIRD
mm
Rating the Pizzam
Brooklyn PizzaItalian VillageLarrv & CarolsPapa JohnsPizza OutletPizza PerfecttaPizza Rialto
Phone# 681-7800422-1300687-1189682-7272687-9555661-9991421-2121
TasteB+AB+B+B-CAGreasiness
(1 - little, 10-a lot)4332432
ServiceA-AC-BBAA
Delivery TimeN/A30 min.varied75 min.45 min.20 min.40 min.
Price (Lg. Pie) $9.60$9.99$9.65$9$9$8.85$8.75
OverallB+AB+B+BB-A
all photos by Greg Nofi/Entertainment Editor

---------------------------------------------------

BioTHE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 6, 2000
in
111 vl
i never go to the bathroom
My friends tell me Im a comic genius. Its true, but 
I cant tell them its true. I wouldnt give them the 
'satisfaction. Id rather be regarded as dull then let my 
friends think for one second they know what theyre talk
ing about. Its all about keeping a sense of perspective. You 
have to know what really matters. So lets just keep this lit
tle secret to ourselves, shall we?
uefeijtf
CAT BERT SAYS I 
HAVE TO GET A 
NEW JOB WITHIN 
THE COMPANY.
)
COULD YOU 
FIND IT 
WITHIN 
YOUR 
HEART. . .
)I'LL
CHECK.
+AI u Q
TODAY IS MY LAST 
DAY. I'M SAYING 
MY FAREWELLS.
WE'VE NEVER TALKED , 
BUT I WAS WORKING 
MY WAY DOWN THE 
ROW AND HERE 
YOU ARE.
)
SO. . .
LET'S
STAY
IN
TOUCH. DON'T
BE A
STRANGER." op ' 31
l?1 . Q
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN 
AN INCURABLE 
ROMANTIC.
DO YOU MIND IF I 
TAKE OFF MY SHOE? 
I'VE GOT SOME SORT 
OF FUNGUS THAT 
NEEDS AIR.
I LIKE TO 
SCRATCH IT 
ON THE 
TABLE LEG.
mmmby J
hi. i'm that zac the oreo king, 
gabe and squirrel were 
7 arrested for destroying 
the Fence so i'll be 
taking over until 
they get back, 
.now, according to gabe 
i'm supposed to be 
"funny and kind of 
^fgeeky with a spin on 
current CMU 
happenings."
jslater@aii(]rew.cimi.e<Iu
Pittsburgh sucks.
jslater@andrcw.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Over The Hedge
5-0
Vl++(.'.//-H1ugtaf.Kubire.torv\ (c) 2.000"police!'
C 2000.Umto<) Foatu/o ypdjcalc. I

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
6 November 2000TiJE TARTANPage Bl2
Theres nothing cooler than being a geek this week
DO PITTSBURGH!
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
Those damn forefathers of our country clearly 
dont understand us at all. Government for the 
people? Baloney! If they were really trying to 
make things better for us, then why in the world 
would they make us stressed-out CMU students 
vote during the busiest week of the year? 
Apparently, Thomas Jefferson never took 
Algorithms.
But you should vote this week, nevertheless. In 
addition, try out these ten fun things:
 This campus is starting to look like Revenge of 
the Nerds (which, ironically, is playing on Sunday). 
In between all the nudity in that film, you had the 
Greeks versus the Geeks. Last week was Greek 
Week. This week, its Geek Week. The events 
include a big-screen video game tournament 
(Monday at 7 pm in Wean 7500), Nerf wars 
(TUesday at 8 pm in McKenna-Peter-Wright Room, 
University Center), and even 36,000 Legos, RC 
cars, Play-Doh, the Potatohead family, and Voltron 
(all on Wednesday at 5 pm in Connan Room, 
University Center). For a complete schedule, see 
the Calendar below.
 Lets just say that if the cold weather arrives in 
Pittsburgh this week, a least at ton of good music 
will arrive with it, kicking off with Bob Dylan at
Is Wartime Rape Natural? Some 
Feminist Clues, by Cynthia Enloe of Clark 
University. 2 pm in Room 2P56, WWP Hall, 
University of Pittsburgh. Presented as part of 
the Womens Studies Program.
Black Monui in the Sound of the 
Photograph. 4:30 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall. Presented as part of the 
University Lecture series. Contact: x8-7970.
Study Abroad Alumni Panel. 5 to 7 pm
in the McKenna Peter Room, University 
Center. Contact: x8-4969.
Geek Week Events. Swim in a pool full of 
Mountain Dew and glowing pickles in front of 
Wean Hall at 6:30 pm. Big-screen video tour
nament in Wean Hall 7500 at 7 pm. Take out 
aggressions on Jar Jar Binks, Power Rangers, 
and Britney Spears at 8 pm in McKenna-Peter 
Room, University Center.
Second Annual Oxfam Hunger 
Banquet. 5:30 pm in Rangos Ballroom, 
University Center. Contact: x8-2142.
Geek Week Events. Video game tourna
ment qualifying round in Wean 7500 at 7 pm. 
Nerf weaponry and fights in McKenna-PeterWright Room, University Center at 8 pm.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? Its free!
Send it to
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
the A.J. Palumbo Center in Downtown Pittsburgh 
at 7 pm tonight. Dont get me wrong, Im not 
asserting that Bob Dylan is Old Man Winter, but 
facts are facts and the man was born and raised in 
the frosty climate of Minnesota. Anyway, tickets 
are available at all Ticketmaster locations, the AJ 
Palumbo Center box office, and by calling 323- 
1919.
 If you couldnt get enough of Dylan, at least 
you have one of his proteges coming to A.J. 
Palumbo Center just two days later on Wednesday: 
Ben Harper and the Innocent Criminals. 
Harper was one of the 90s most prolific pop-rock 
singer-songwriters. His performance starts at 7:30 
pm. Tickets are $25 and can be purchased by call
ing 562-9905.
 Attention all you Philadelphia people: you bet
ter watch your collective back this week. One of 
the most heated rivalries in hockey takes place 
with the Penguins versus the Flyers at the 
Mellon Arena at 7 pm. As if that wasnt enough to 
get yinzers blood pumping, the Steelers play 
the Eagles on Sunday the 12th at 1 pm in Three 
Rivers Stadium. Thats two chances to piss off 
Philadelphians in one week!
 Face it, man, the t-shirts from the TOC and 
BOC that you wear daily are no longer cool. Your 
friends may have once been in awe of the 20 or so 
you schmoozed from the recruiters, but its time to 
expand your wardrobe. This Friday from noon
until 2 pm in the University Center Kirr Commons, 
you get your own personalized t-shirt at T-Shirt 
Airbrush by Skip. If youre really slick, you can 
get it so that it looks like the t-shirt is for your own 
company named after you. Then all your friends 
will be hankering to get their paws on the same tshirt at next years job fairs.
 Still yapping your mouth off with complaints 
about that ugly sign hanging off of the Purnell 
Center? Get over it, dude. I mean, have you ever 
actually been inside the Purnell Center? Its time 
you visit Purnell and get some damn culture. (No, 
MTVs Jackass does not count as culture.) This 
Fridayyfrom 5 to 7 pm you can attend the opening 
reception of the newest Regina Gouger Miller 
Gallery exhibit. Actually, theres three exhibits 
in one.''On the first floor, youll find Digital 
Explorations, a screening of the latest digital work 
by the Schools of Architecture and Design. Then 
head on up to the second floor to find Works on 
Paper by faculty from the Nagoya Zokei University 
of Art and Design and Nagoya Zokei Junior 
College, Japan. Finally, at the third floor, Kindred 
Spirits with be on display, featuring recent works 
by Marlene Aaron, Peggy Lynn Cox, Marilee Keys, 
and Anne Wolf. If you miss the reception, dont 
worry about it. The exhibits run until December 
15.
 Its kind of funny that we pay about $30,000 a
See PITTSBURGH, page B8
Touchstone Pictures..All Rights Reserved.
Jason Schwartzman plays a nerd in Rushmore, but hes 
as cool as a cucumber during CMUs Geek Week.Wednesday, 11/8 thursday, 11/9 Sunday, 11/12
Networks of things: Changing the 
network rules. 4:30 pm in Doherty 2315. 
A lecture by Jim Waldo, chief architect of 
JINI from Sun. Presented as part of Geek 
Week.
The Etiquette of Fundraising,
Presentation by David Unruh, Director of 
Development for Mid-America. 4:30 to 5:30 
pm in the Class of '87 Room, University 
Center. Contact: 268-8704.
Speak Your Mind:, Dinner and 
Discussion. 5:30 to 7 pm in the West Wing 
TV Room. Contact: 268-2075.
The Mind as Hero in Ayn Rand's 
Atlas Shrugged,  by Dr. Andrew Bernstein. 
7:30 to 10:30 pm in Wean Hall 7500. Contact: 
X2-3506.
Leo Kottke and Tuck & Patti. 7:30 pm 
at the Rosebud; doors open at 6 pm. Tickets: 
$25 in advance; $28 day of show. Presented 
by Elko.thursday, 11/9
Cutting Edge Cafe: The Intelligent 
Workplace. 4:30 to 5:30 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall. Contact: 268-8704.
Butterfly. 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without. 
Sponsored by AB Films.
Geek Week Events. Video game tourna
ment qualifying rounds continue in Wean 
7500 at 7 pm. Late night classic geek movie 
festival at 10 pm in Wean 7500.
authentically Chinese: no
official voice of marty mcflyE/ 0 le citL
THE REAPER
Do you rent sorority getaway houses for tickle parties?
only losers play Monopoly 
til 5:30 in the morning
...and that was when 
I had my good lai!
You scared the crap outof me pretty bird, pretty bird Jonny Quest thinks were
sellouts, sellouts...
Go heacocks!
Little Chrissy want a jo-ooolt?!
cb you have to be an Indian 
to make Indian com?
Latin o re erican, 
M idole-Eastern 
.Sex-.
"O" is for awesome
lazy lumps almost late in the N. Front super 857
uMClBMX
mummy, he's gone rotten
Staples still likes to party 
after all these years
HeinzAmerica s favorite ketchup
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox. simply email it to t3rtan@8ndrew.cwu.edu. send it 
to The Tartan, University Center. Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibbensh, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
way too much into it.
Kings of the Game Tour, featuring 
P.O.D., PE, Project 86 and Linkin Park. 6:30 
pm at Metropol; doors open at 5:30 pm. 
Tickets: $22.50.
Keb Mo. 8 pm at the Palace Theater. 
Tickets: $25/$20.friday, 11/10
Mariss Conducts Mahler. 8 pm at Heinz 
Hall. Presented by Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra. Admission: $20-59. Contact: 392- 
4900.
T-Shirt Airbrush by Skip. Noon to 2 pm 
in the University Center. Contact: x8-8704.
International Student Union: TGIFl
4:30 to 6:30 pm in the Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Contact: x8-5231.
Garou game. Live-Action Role-Play of 
Garou (werewolves) from White-Wolfs Mind's 
Eye Theater, Laws of the Wild. 5 to 11 pm in 
Baker Hall 235 and 237. Contact: 
cam@andrew.cmu.edu.
CMU Womens Basketball, AM All 
Stars Game. 7 pm in Skibo Gym. Contact: 
268-8054.
Me, Myself, & Irene. 7:30, 10 pm, and
12:30 am in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: $1 with CMU ID 
and $3 without. Sponsored by AB Films.
Open Mic Night. 8 to 11 pm at the CMU 
Womens Center. Admission: $2. Contact: 268- 
3595.
Keller Williams. 8 pm at Morewood 
Underground. Admission: free. Sponsored by 
AB Underground.
Weston and the Blue Meanies. 7 pm at
Laga. Admission: $7 in advance and $9 at the 
door.
BB Mak. 7:30 pm at Metropol; doors open 
at 6:30 pm. Tickets: $18 in advance; $20 at the 
door. Presented by D/E.
Geek Week Events. Play with 36,000 
Legos, RC cars, Play-Doh, the Potatohead fam
ily, and Voltron at 5 pm in the Connan Room, 
University Center. Video game tournament 
qualifying rounds, continue at 7 pm in Wean 
7500. Anime Festival at 10 pm in Wean 7500.Saturday, 11/1]
CMU Football vs. Gannon University.
1 pm at Gesling Stadium. Contact: x8-8054.
Hollow Man. 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 
am in McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center. Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 
without. Sponsored by SDC Films.
The Celtic New Year Beckons. 7:30 pm 
at the Irish Center of Pittsburgh on Forward 
Ave. Admission $25, must have proper ID to 
consume. Contact: 243-7910.
Geek Week. Video' game championship 
round at 4 pm in Wean 7500. Closing 
Ceremonies following end of tournament.
Roman Catholic Mass. 10:30 am and 8 
pm in Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. Also 
takes place daily at 12:30 pm in the University 
Center chapel. Contact: Roman Catholic 
Newman Center, 681-3181.
Revenge of the Nerds. 8 pm, 10 pm, and
midnight in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: $1 with CMU 
ID and $3 without. Sponsored by AB Films.ongoing
Pittsburgh Dance Council. 8 pm,
Wednesday and Thursday, at the Byham 
Theatre. Dance legend Mikhail Baryshnikov, 
star of stage and screen, and his company will 
perform works by such gifted artists as. David 
Gordon, Yvonne Ranier, Steve Paxton and 
other innovators. Tickets: $20, $40, $50, $75. 
Contact: 412-456-6666.
The Regina Gouger Miller Gallery.
From November 9 through December 15. On 
Floor 1,Digital Explorations a screening of 
the latest digital work by the Schools of 
Architecture and Design. On Floor 2, Works 
on Paper by faculty from the Nagoya Zokei 
University of Art and Design and Nagoya Zokei 
Junior College, Japan. On Floor 3, Kindred 
\ Spirits, recent works by Marlene Aaron, 
\ Peggy Lynn Cox, Marilee Keys, and Anne Wolf. 
An opening reception will take place this 
Friday, November 10 from 5 - 7 p.m. 
Admission: free. Contact: x8-3618.
Aluminum by Design: Jewelry to 
Jets. Through February 11 at the Carnegie 
Mus.eum of Art, Oakland. Contact: 662-3212.
Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor 
Overcoat. Through November 18 at the 
Orchard Hill Chapel, Wexford. Presented by 
the Saltworks Thatre Company. Contact: 394- 
3353. \
Meat Dreams. Through December 3 at 
the Melwood Photography Gallery, Oakland. 
Color photographs by Bob Kubiak. Contact: 
681-5449.
Scenes of Western Pennsylvania: The 
Photography of Donald M. Robinson.
Through January 25. Features 67 photos of the 
Western Pennsylvania landscape. Contact: 
622-3131.
Study Abroad Show. Through November 
11 in the UC Art Gallery. Contact: X8-8704.
\
Cross Currents. Through November 30 at 
University of Pittsburgh Art Gallery Henry 
Clay Frick Fine Arts Building.'Open 10 am to 4 
pm Monday through Wednesday and Friday 
and Saturday and 10 am to 8 pm on Thursday. 
Closed on Sunday.
Three Rivers Film Festival. Through 
November 18. Tickets for festival films are $6 
each and are available at the box office one 
half hour before each showtime. The screen
ings take place at Harris Theater, 809 Liberty 
Ave, Downtown; Melwood Screening Room, 
477 Melwood Ave, North Oakland; or Regent 
Square Theater, 1035 South Braddock Ave, 
Edgewood. Contact:
www.pghfilmmakers.org/filmfest/ or 682-4111 
or 681-544.

---------------------------------------------------

dossier is seeking 
submissions for the 
last issue of the 
semester.
So, please send us your writing (playwriting, screenwriting, fiction, non-fiction, poetry, etc.) - any theme, any length by: Wednesday, November 15, 2000
Send submissions via email to Joey {jjt} or Laura {Imartin} or drop hard copy at the Tartan Offlce-UC 318
Include your name, email address and phone number.

---------------------------------------------------

S

---------------------------------------------------

Dossier
Issue 7, Volume 20. Novermber 6, 2000
Literary Editors:
Joey Tague, Laura Martin.
Design Editor:
Michael Zimmer.
Readers: Meagan Ciesla, 
Maya Mei-Tal, Beth Wilion, and 
John Hursh
A Very kind Letter from the Editors of literature:
This week, because of birthday, we received a slew of
poetry dedicated to this great man. Yet, most did not seem up to par 
with the quality of the other work that we are printing. However, we 
decided that because it is a big one turning 21), we should
include some of those poems here instead. Happy Birthday
on his birthday 
Jane Cornicopia
Roses are red 
Markers are black 
You do design 
I can't do jack.
On seeing ]!&&&walking across campus on a windy day in which I was
wearing mittens with a song off the radio running through my head
and an itch.
by Havinmore H. Ash
What time
is it,
It's freezing.
Battle Cry of Spring, A Haiku 
by L.J. Fotwamp
Battle Cry of SpringLet go of snow and gasp life!
Hey, have you seen
Coping;: A Pagans guide
by Jessica D. Hand, Designed by Jim Kenney
Mango Season
by Adriennne M. Dybes, Designed by Katie Minardo
When Driving Out West With 
Someone You Do Not Know Well
by Peter Burch, Designed by Chris Rugen
4 The Hair
by Kathleen Anne Fischer, Designed by Brin Kelly
6 October Mowing Poem
by Eric Story, Designed by Behnam Farahpour
7 from Companions of the 
Untrained Correspondent
Essay by Anne Ray
8 The Seduction of Professor P.
by Sue Bossi, Desig-ned by Cara Connally
This is a little taste of Retro Dossier. This poem originally appeared in dossier in 1985.

---------------------------------------------------

Writers
Adrienne M. Dybes is a junior Art deviant now in BHA 
who enjoys red meat, exotic fruits, and Betsy. She once 
poked a mean boy in the eye and she'll do it again if 
necessary.
Kathleen Anne Fischer says: Like mother, like daughter... 
You can take the girl out of Jersey, but you can't take 
Jersey out of the g*irl.
Jessica Hand can belly dance if she has enough to drink. 
At least, she thinks she can. And don't try to tell her any 
differently.
Eric Story is a junior creative writing major.
Peter Burch is a slippy boy who goes on adventures and 
likes music and sparkles and girls and writing mish mash 
about driving out west. He hates snakes.

---------------------------------------------------

His collegiate days spent sweaty and sore,
Knee deep in a mudded field, 
Stadium eyes upon him.
And in the classrooms, girls with billowyflowered dresses passed by discretely, 
brushing bare arms against letterman sleeves.
Yet, Harvard, the gridiron and rosy-cheeked girls
faded quickly. Seduced by words of wit from Emerson 
and Whitman, he settled into marriage and
a teaching career.
Now,
having failed the former, he wallows in knowledge
TAINTED with feeling, 
much like a cow wades
through the murk at the mouth of a riverbed.
And small comfort is found in college coeds arms,
as daily, he is reminded of mortal progression
by the stray hairs on his pillowcase 
of white cotton percale.
The Seduction of Professor P.
Sue Bossi
(Comes from Volume 6, No. 3, April 23, 1985, 
Senior Issue of Dossier)

---------------------------------------------------

I
NORTH
Become a tree.
Sink roots, deep 
into cool Earth. 
Straighten your trunk, 
dappled with moss 
that soaks negative 
energy until it's green, 
moist and soft. 
Unfurl leaves, dress 
them yellow and red, 
t3ise *eir heads to sJ^
WEST
Embrace the ocean.
Bathe yourself 
in her arms, feel 
her love wash 
over and cleanse you. , *' "*
Cry against her shoulder 
as her white fingers 
collect your tears 
and set them sparkling 
on her jeweled chest.
EAST
Speak with birds.
Wipe the dust 
from their traveled 
feathers onto your fingers 
so you can touch faraway 
 places, touch the trees 
in Canada, the sand 
in Miami. Touch 
and remember 
you're not alone.
There's always somewhere 
to go, somewhere 
that floats on the music 
of the nightingale, 
somewhere that bounces 
with the raven's cackle.
t SOfjTH 
* t
Set herbs on fiie' Smoke fear's white ghosts away, breathe the bright auras of spirit guides.Feed warm thoughts to the sun-god inside you: buttery biscuits of love and joy en flamb until expanded and full, you scatter darkness with sunbeams.

---------------------------------------------------

I think I hear you in the darkyour voice creeping in through the window.The curtains shudder to cover the rain
That floods the street outside,puddling every inch of this neighborhoodinto mud, causing plants to grow and fires to die.The rain echoes your whisper on the wallsand I hear somethingabout mangoes.
I have only eaten a mango once,
this summer the hottest day of the year. 1 was naked and the air was a thick and blurry cloak. My skin, a soft, heavy heap, same as the half eaten fruit in my hand. The juice formed a pool in my palm, dripped down my forearm and off my elbow.I watched myself in the mirror and tangled my legs like burning grapevines, waiting for your voice to pull its fingers through my hair and tuck it behind my ear.
12903 582T39 
; Adrienne M. Dybes
Silence falls heavier than heat.I hear the noise of pulp, grating its way around my teeth and down my throat,
and I realize that it is only the rain, that mango season is over here.

---------------------------------------------------

Juu the actor in a movie about the 
death of spirit, dreams that 
die, the loneliness that we all 
feel, that sort of thing. I looked him up 
later in a magazine with glossy pictures. 
This is where things start. This is where 
they end: Sitting in a fast-food restau
rant, wiping ketchup from my face with 
a paper napkin and watching my rejec
tion in any surface that would reflect. 
Or maybe thats not where things end. 
Actually theyre still moving, and Im 
still watching for that actor. Hope works 
this way when the mind hovers at age 
21. Loneliness as well.
Here are the hopes, which I started to 
call fantasies, and then lies: Im 21 and a 
girl, and I broke a story in a magazine 
about corporate politics, or Latin 
American military activity. I wrote a 
novel with a title like Yellow Teeth or 
Memoir of the Modern Whore. I had 
something published in Rolling Stone. 
They flew me to New York, away from 
my shoebox-like life, and on the plan 
who took me out for drinks in the 
Village. He has dark hair and his name 
is Wes. On the couch in the bar in the 
Village, he bought me Belgian beer and 
told me he noticed my hands when I 
reached up to push the stewardess-call 
button. Its okay, because now, in the 
hopeful mind, Im the type of girl who
pushes the button freely, orange and 
square, who no longer needs to assert 
that she can get it her goddamn self. She 
is a writer. She gets quoted saying things 
like like The only thing really free from 
nostaliga in American culture is fastfood restaurants. She writes and 
spends time with an actor. They wake up 
in the morning and she leaves before he 
does, rides the subway, interviews the 
curator of an exhibit at a museum, buys 
coffee, clothes at the Salvation Army, 
photographs, spends her paychecks on 
postage and really nice pens.
These were the hopes. Im 21 and Im 
a girl. Im a writer. This much is true, 
but of course, what happened between 
the beginning and the end is different. 
My life is shoebox-like. This much is 
also true. I lived in Pittsburgh and I got 
a job as a reporter in Baltimore. I met 
impossible men, looked for an actor in 
glossy magazines, tried to spot him in 
LaGuardia when I fled from the 
Chesapeake. I looked at my reflection 
on lots of different surfaces and looked 
for Wes in bars in Mt. Vernon until all I 
saw was the back of his head and red 
marks that I wrote on paper myself.
The end is not so much an end as a 
signpost, a buoy. I hoped to be a jour
nalist. I used to think that prose of that 
kind came easily to me, but now I dont
think so. At 21 we have an idea of what 
jobs and companions should look like, 
what they should say, how they should 
treat us. I thought being a journalist was 
about writing the story. But it isnt. Its 
about the phone calls, the meetings, 
those people who do not want to talk to 
you. I thought having companions was 
important. It isnt. It isnt the having 
thats important. I only know that I 
hang onto my lies like I am drowning 
letting go of them takes some cleaning.
I dont know whats important. I 
remember certain thingsspecifics. 
Maybe thats whats important. 
Specifics. I held newspaper in my hands. 
I sat outside in the courtyard of a 
Baltimore rowhouse, heat between those 
buildings, the black scratch of a ciga
rette on concrete. I laughed about 
Republicans with my co-workers. I 
swear I saw that actor at a party in 
Pittsburgh, the back of his head, waiting 
in line for the keg in the basement. I rode 
the Long Island Railroad to Rockville 
Center. I found a nice way to tell my edi
tors at the paper that having their jobs 
made me die a little. Its hard to feel real
ly good about work when Im in a place 
thats soefficient. I feel this distance 
that rings me when I look at that actors 
photograph, his white teeth, an icon of 
another existence.

---------------------------------------------------

Eric Story
E
ODc
O
E
ht
E
_g
CD
cr
~o
0) o
oro
o 8 
>L TO
"o >
 J 
^= 0)
0) CD
E C 
O a=  _0)
u.o
i= 
>ooo00"O00oo"oOeZ>-----IDoo0o_dEcb
d
my
LO
TOc~
0_d0
CL
Od"toCD00
z>_od~U
O~oQ_ Un
OdEd
LO0Oo
00050CL
05-1=0CD
CLoOCD O
CL
O
0_d
d
'tzO
CDd
0CD(
Odct=to=>
0_QOtoCL
llpsliUJ
1
O0d
o
(D
O
Esr
>-
E
c
O
LO0
Ud
O
_Q
CD
to_0
Q_
CL to 
O ^ 
CD ^ 
 0> _d
? O 
O
CD 
"O d 3
CD d
U 
oQ_ .
O)  
. CD U
p: /W o
JO 
oo CD E
co E 00 *o .
- il 
_ =  
0 0^
CD
d--------
D O DOd
_ D .E
0>
D0 0
j5 rih 
0 2.
0
0
~o d
in 3 
CD 2 
O
0d
0
O 00 CD
O " 
^ *  J= 
5 u
_Q OD
TO'Hl(D CD 
g> OLO
 P
>3
-o-Q d "* 
D
T>d
0 ~ <0 
_d O
-D Ra? n
(D Q) _c _c
O *_
03 CD | c .
il JQ_ U 
cd - n 2  
o tz "o
- CD _
|o_oLO d
O >. ^
>. 0 tO o -C 3
d
*g
_Q
_d
O
Q_3
Jd
CD
0
O
CD
O
O
E
O
CD
0
o
E
~o
D_d
 2 _!TO LO
- E 55=2=0
= oo p0 PCZ > O0
 ^ J?
 "e Eoo d * 
0.1=
i
as though if I kept on mowing and smelling and listening 
to the hum and ring of the mower,
I'd stop the first frost.

---------------------------------------------------

Nvr5 bdIaI52 09o Nr"o 
1Iov Venre5r You Do teo P5e1 Nrss
wieiL saLmp
I am reading her, 
As she sits silendy steering every hour,
A story on a drive drive drive out west.
A story about Ms. Lizard, a green woman 
who wants to change her name. Her name 
disrupts her life and her relationships. I can 
Imagine.
A drive out west where I am merely a tag-along,
On board for the view,
In a car that overHEATS i-ieats heats on hills.
Ms. Lizard, I read, is not honest with her friends, 
Especially the ones she loves most. I imagine 
What it would be like to be her friend as passing 
States blur the windows.
A drive out west to a new home, one which 
will never live in. Like I said, I am just along 
For the ride ride ride.
The friends Ms. Lizard loves most 
Do not know her very well. Being green 
Has nothing to do with it. I imagine her 
Loving me. Afterall, I do not know her very well.
A new home in a new state with a new job
In a new building that I will never see 
And she will never talk about. Remember, she
steering every hour silently.
Being foreign, Jewish, or quiet, 
she leans over to me and places a green 
rubber toy lizard on my knee, 
and says, Your turn to drive drive drive.
We approach a hill and the car begins its hot climb.
Being green might be like being foreign or Jewish or quiet.

---------------------------------------------------

h
It is common to pass down things through generations. For example, my 
sister received our great-great grandmothers cameo necklace for her eigh
teenth birthday. My brothers first name is my fathers and grandfathers 
first name. For my high school graduation, my mothers mother (Nana) 
gave me her string of her antique black and white pearls. However, I 
received my most important inheritance from my mother, and from her 
mother before her, way before my graduation, Sweet 16, First Holy 
Communion and even Baptism. It is The Hair.
My hair is naturally light brown (I think - its been highlighted blonde 
for nearly four years now). My moms was blonde when she was my age, 
and I think Nanas was dark brown, but like me, I dont think they know 
anymore what color their hair is, after years of highlighting. What makes 
my hair just like my mothers and her mothers is the thickness and curls. 
We have the large bold curls, not cute little corkscrews. Its about shoul
der length, sometimes a little longer, sometimes shorter. If theres a drop 
of moisture in the air, The Hair frizzes out all over the place. It is very 
difficult to brush; it requires real muscle, determination, and patience to 
pull out the morning snarls. But this mass of hair is my defining feature 
in more ways than one.
My sister did not inherit The Hair. In her baby pictures, the ends of 
her hair curled a bit, but with time the curls quickly slipped away into 
blonde straight hair. When she still had the curl, she and I looked alike 
in our baby pictures. Our eyes were light, our smiles huge, and our tum
mies and cheeks were round. It would be very difficult to tell us apart, 
but for our hair. Her hair was a sweet strawberry blonde. I, however, had 
a mass of ridiculous light brown curls, sticking out in every direction. 
That is how everyone looks for me in baby pictures. I found a black and 
white picture of me and my hair when I was about two or three-years-old 
sitting on Santas lap. I asked my mom where I was when she pho
tographed it. She informed me that it was not of me - it was of her.
There was something somewhat disturbing about thinking that youre 
looking at your own face, when in fact its not.
When I was a little girl, I hated The Hair. My curls were too unruly 
for pigtails. Once I was a litde older and a product of the 80s, I desper
ately wanted to wear fluorescent pink spandex pants and to yank my hair 
into a Madonna/Cyndi Lauper/Whitney Houston style side ponytail 
with lots of bows and ribbons. But no. My mother insisted that my hair 
be kept shoulder length and layered, like hers. She said that the kind of 
hair we had will not grow long. It gets too tangled and too hard to man
age. And, by the way, fluorescent colors are tacky. So she dressed me in a 
sweater vest in her favorite color, cotton candy pink, and left my curls 
hanging down around my face. That was the end of the discussion.
When I was about twelve, I realized that not only did my mom and I 
have the same hair, but I was developing a personality increasingly similar 
to hers. At Christmas dinner, it was like sitting around a table of mirrors 
of random reflections. When my mother gets annoyed, her voice 
becomes short and somewhat shrill, just like her mothers. And, like my 
mother, everyone knows that if I am angry, then someone has seriously 
messed up because it takes a lot to get under my skin. Another way that 
my mother and Nana are alike is the mystery of make-up. They always 
have lipstick on. I dont know how they do it. Even after eating turkey 
and gravy and mash potatoes, and daintily wiping their mouths as they 
go along, their lips are still artificially pink. When I laugh my eyes 
scrunch up into little slits, and as we sit around the table, I see my moth
ers eyes and her mothers eyes do the same. Each of the three of us wore 
Christmas blouses (freshly ironed, of course) and slips under our skirts. 
Nana had informed me years ago that it was poor taste if a woman did

---------------------------------------------------

not wear a slip. And all the while, there was The Hair.
But, with puberty came resentment of The Hair. I wanted my own hair. So I pulled out 
a hairdryer and blew out my curls. My mother and Nana just shook their heads in silent 
disapproval. My father, however, asked me why? "God gave you Moms beautiful hair, so 
why are you straightening it?" This came from the man who had been calling me Shirley 
Temple and Lioness since I was a little girl. I informed him that I didnt want curly hair 
anymore and he would just have to deal with it.
I couldnt seem to run far enough from The Hair. Disapproving looks and curling irons 
were constant reminders of my rejecting of my heritage. To prove that I didnt give a damn, 
I got out the bottle. Truly, it was my mothers worse nightmare. I dyed my hair purple. 
Bright, royal purple. But I was scared and tentative, so I dyed just one little streak of defi
ance next to my face so I could tuck it behind my ear if I didnt like it. But I did like it. 
Now that my hair was straight and dyed, fewer adults informed me that I looked exacdy 
like my modier, and that I had The Hair. So I decided to keep going. I traded in GAP cor
duroy skirts that my mother and I shopped for together for secondhand polyester pants. At 
Christmas that year, I gave.into my mothers pleas to wear a skirt, but I refused to wear a 
slip. Nanas eyebrows shot up almost as soon as she came in the house and asked me where 
my slip was and what on earth did I do to my hair? "I dont want curly hair anymore, and 
I threw out all of my slips because I hate them!" (That was not exactly true. I had also told 
my mother that I threw out my slips, but I actually hid them in my closet. I didnt have 
quite enough nerve to put them in the garbage.)
For almost three years, I attacked my hair with a hairdryer to straighten out every last 
curly hair on my head. It was still thick, and I tried in vain to weight it down with all sorts 
of items from gels to eggs to hand lotion. I never quite succeeded at taking away the signa
ture thickness, so I compensated by changing the color. I dyed my hair purple a few more 
times, with wider and bolder streaks each time. When purple got old, I went blue, which 
ended up turning gray. Next was a deep pinkish-red. At peak delinquency, almost my entire 
head was pink and straightened.
There I was, seventeen-years-old with straight rainbow hair and bowling shirts that said 
Al. My mother hated it. She wanted me to dress like a girl and highlight my hair blonde, 
not purple. For a while, I really liked that shock factor. My friends would ask me, "Wow! 
What did your mom say? She mustve been really mad!" I loved that; people recognized 
that I was markedly different than my mom instead of being called her carbon copy.
Then my mother stopped resisting. She actually helped me straighten my hair. She said that 
if that was how I liked The Hair, then that was okay with her. Wed spend hours in the 
bathroom with fat hot hair rollers to flatten out my curls. She told me that she straightened 
her long, blonde hair at my age, too. She used shampoo called Curl-Free that she said 
absolutely stunk. That stuff didnt work very well on her stubborn hair, and besides, the 
smell made her nauseous, so she ironed it. I asked what she meant. She told me that she lit
erally spread her out on a table and put a hot iron to it. I laughed and told her that I 
would never do something that dumb.
Then I looked in the bathroom mirror.
My hair was pink and huge hair rollers covered my head. I was wearing a second-hand 
wrinkled T-shirt with Coca-Cola Classic emblazoned across it with a long black skirt (no 
slip) and black boots. Meanwhile, my mother wore crisp jeans and a navy blue sweater. I 
wasnt comfortable with the forced contrast in our reflections. I didnt look like my mother, 
and therefore her mother. My mother was the most influential and important woman in my 
life, so what was wrong with looking and acting like her? I had been fighting The Hair for 
so long that I had forgotten what my cause was.
The next day, I did not use my hairdryer for the first time in years. I decided to see if 
my hair was still curly. I went to school feeling very self-conscious of The Hair and got a 
million compliments on my "perm." One of my teachers literally called me by my mothers 
name in class. And I was not insulted.
So thick! So curly! Do you know how much money people pay to have hair like yours?
I have heard this my entire life. My mother has listened to it. Her mother has listened to it. 
Everyone loves our hair. And finally, so do I.
- Kathleen Anne Fischer
We have the large bold curls, not cute little corkscrews.
