VOTE FOR YOUR 
QUEEN FOR 
CAMPUS WEEK
SENIOR BALL THIS 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
IN ARTS FOYER
VOL. XVII. NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1923
POVERTY DAY 
MAY RECEIVE 
ANOTHER TRIAL
Strict Censorshhip For Attires 
Not Indicative of Poverty 
By Their Scarcity is De
mand of Faculty Executive 
Committee
DATE SET IS MAY 2
Action was to be taken Tuesday 
by the Faculty Executive Committee 
on the recommendations made by a 
Student Council Committee for a Pov
erty Day Celebration to be held May 
2nd. It is expected that the Execu
tive Committee will approve the rec
ommendations which include a 
change of name and a strict censor
ship of costumes.
As outlined, the rules are very sim
ilar to those of last year, but more 
care will be taken to see that they 
are observed. All Plebes will be re
quired to don some costume suggest
ing Poverty and enter a costume com
petition with the Plebes in their 
school, the winners of which will be 
. freed from regulations for the re
mainder of the year. In all, a max
imum of twenty-five Plebes may be 
released from regulations in this way.
Poverty in this case is not to be 
suggested by scant attire, and, in fact, 
those whose costumes are not ap
proved by a committee of Student 
Council representatives will be barred 
from the competition and the parade 
which follow. This rule will be 
strictly enforced as this years cele
bration will determine whether the 
tradition of Poverty Day, established 
in 1920, will be carried on or dropped,
Regular business assemblies of the 
four colleges are to be held at 11:30 
next Wednesday. The Plebes are in
structed to report at 11:45 for judg
ment which will be carried on imme
diately following the regular meet
ings. The chairman of each assembly 
will appoint three judges who will 
determine which Plebes receive the 
greatest amount of applause for their 
costume.
Following the judging and starting 
(Continued on Page Three)
IMPORTANT BAND DRILL
AND REHEARSAL SLATED 
FOR THURSDAY AT 7 P. M.
Thursday evening the band will 
have both drill and rehearsal. It is 
very important that every member 
| report at the field house for drill 
with instruments at promptly seven 
oclock.
This drill will be in respect to the 
formation of letters for use during 
Campus Week. Followiilg this drill 
the usual rehearsal will be held in 
the Union.
The Campus Week Committee is 
anxious to have these special forma
tions used as an added feature of 
Campus Week. They have 'made ar
rangements to have them incorporat
ed in the program.
In order to make these new forma
tions worth while it is neccssary for 
every member to be present on time.
MANY PEOPLE SEE 
ANNUAL EXHIBITION
Demonstrations in All Labs. 
Tesla Coil Attracts Great 
Interest
Tau Beta Pi Will Hold 
Initiation n Saturday
Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter 
to Be Organized
Five Carnegie Tech students will 
be initiated into active membership
? by Tau Beta Pi, the national honorary 
fraternity in the engineering field, at 
a banquet next Saturday night, at the 
Hotel Chatham. At the affair, which 
is to be held under the auspices of 
the Carnegie chapter, efforts will bo 
made to organize a Pittsburgh alumni 
association. All alumni members in 
the district have been invited to at
tend.
Professor Willibald Trinks, head of 
the Department of Mechanical Engi
neering will be toastmaster, and R. J. 
Anderson, Metallurgist at the Bureau 
of Mines, has been secured to give 
the principal address. Dr. ThomasS. 
Baker, president of Carnegie Tech, 
will also be guest and speaker.
In addition to the student initiates, 
Dr. W. F. Rittman,. head of the De
partment of Commercial Engineering, 
will be initiated as an honorary mem
ber. The students to be accepted are: 
Harold A. Baugh, of Hastings, Neb.; 
Francis H. Trembley, Jr., Jackson
ville, Fla.; Floyd W. Bremmer, Dun
kirk, N. Y.; John F. Lamb, New Cas
tle, Pa.; and Paul C. Cromwell, El
kins, W. Ya.
Red light thrown upon steam issu
ing from the smokestack of Machin
ery Hall, flames from the cupola furnace in the foundry shop, aud the 
brightness of the buildings combined 
to make a fine display on the campus 
during the annual exhibition last Fri
day night. Each of the five schools 
was kept well filled until the time of 
closing.
In the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College one of the most interesting 
and instructive exhibits was that in 
i the bactariological laboratory, where 
 a number of microsopes were focused 
each upon a specimen of some bactaria, affording an excellent oppor
tunity for learning the actual appear
ance of such microorganism. There 
were also exhibitions of work done 
im the Social Welfare classes, under 
student supervision; of gowns and 
dresses made by the students, and 
of office work and1 machines, as well 
as demonstrations in the various 
other departments.
The play given by Drama students 
and the music recital in the Arts 
Theater was very well attended. The 
exhibition o-C paintings and drawings 
by the department of Painting and 
Illustrating attracted a great deal of 
attention. The architectural drafting 
rooms, and the still-life studious were 
also places of general interest.
Moving pictures of various manu
facturing processes were shown in 
the chemistry lecture room of the 
'Science School. In the physics lecturo room was a demonstration of 
electric phenomena, aud in the phys
ics laboiatories, an exhibition of apparatta, including a Pascals fountain, 
and a Foucault pendulum, an instru
ment for indicating the directions of 
the earths rotation. Tho mine, the 
existance of which is known to com(Contlnued on Page Four.)
VOTING FOR CARNEGIE :T. N. GRIGGS ELECTED 
QUEEN STARTS TODAY COUNCIL PRESIDENT
VOTE FOR HER TODAY
Ninety-One Senior Girls of,ADVANCE information
ON ASSEMBLY PROGRAMSM. M. and Arts Colleges: for week or april 25
Are Eligible For Election college of Fine Arts,
as Queen of Campus Week 
Comedy sketches by member^ of 
Drama Department 
Advice to P<ebcs.
Colilege of Industries.
12:30 P. M............Room 104 Industries
Nominations of Officers.
Motion picture comedy.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege.
Talk by Colonel Day on Tho 
Delights of Reading Good Liter
ature.
Nominations for officers of Guild, 
Y. M. C. A., and Athletic Asciation.
Miss Brown will put before the 
Assembly the sorority question, 
which will afterwards be 
thrown op'en for discussion 'by 
both Design and Margaret Mor
rison Girls 
Colilege of Engineering.
11:30 A. M...................................Room 213
Movies, comedy.
Today is the day!1
The list is herewith printed!
So, it does behoove all ye Carnegie 
Tecliites to get busy and mark down 
the girl of your selection.
Because, on this day, the twentyfifth of April, the powers that be, 
have decreed that the query: Who
is gonna be the queen?" shall begin to 
be answered. The election will be a 
regular school election, and polls will 
be established in all four schools.
As has been said before, will be 
said again. The Queen this year will 
be more thau last year in that she 
will be Queen of Campus Week, and 
incidentally, the real QUEEN OF 
CARNEGIE, which will be quite an 
honor indeed. It will mean every
thing to the girl wrlio is elected, for 
it immediately stamps her as a reg
ular girl, with beauty, personality, 
and attractiveness.
And weve gotta get a good queen, 
too, because her pictures will be 
broadcasted throughout the land, in 
the movies and pictorial sections of 
the newspapers, which will mean on
ly one thing, and that is that upon 
her will rest the idea of Carnegie 
Tech girls as gained by the public. 
A good QUEEN OF CARNEGIE will 
mean that the public will always think 
of the girls of Carnegie Tech as real 
girls And they are too!
But, getting down t.n the real busi
ness of the day; below are printed 
a list of the Senior girls of both Mar
garet Morrison and Arts. Carry the 
CARNEGIE TARTAN to the polls 
with you, and make your selection 
from this list.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Catherine Allen, Agnes Allison, 
Prlscilli Allison, Edna Alwine, Mary 
Atkinson, Ruth Barton, Mary Beam 
Daisy Berg, Kathryn Blackford, Helen 
Busch, Jeannette Biclcle, Mrs. Ina' 
Crawford, Emmy Lou Cawtliorne, 
Martha Colegrove, Lillian Coleman, 
Lillian Cowan, Eleanor Craver, Ruth 
Carr, Kathryn Dunn, Lenore Davies, 
Betnice Doverspike, Lucille Dunn 
Helen Duncomhe, Elizabeth Dutney, 
Ray Fine, Helen Gordon, Dorothy 
Grant, Ruth Gleicliert, Olga Gojdics, 
Frances Hess, Elizabeth Hedges, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
ELECTRICAL NIGHT 
MEN GIVE DINNER
Students Employers at Ban
quet on Exhibition 
Night
Executive Board Accepts Pro
posed Constitution For Re
organization of Council and 
Activities Board
REPORT CONFERENCE
T. N. Griggs, tho representative 
from the College of Science and En
gineering, was chosen as the presi
dent of the Student Council for next 
year, at the meeting of the Student 
Council on Tuesday niglit, April 10.
Griggs was selected to accompany 
Bowers, the present president of 1he 
Student Council, to represent Carne
gie at the Mid-Western Student Coun
cil Convention in Illinois, last month. 
While at this convention he was
Girls Glee Club Renders 
Concert at Clairton, Pa,
The Girls Glee Club gave a con
cert in Clairton, Pa., last Friday even
ing which turned out to be the 
greatest success of the season. Fifty 
girls, including the Stringers, made 
the trip, both coming and going, were 
pleasantly passed in bridge games to 
the times of ukes and mandolins. 
The program presented was as fol
lows:
(1) Alma Mater 
Dreaming
Glee Club
(2) Rose of the Rio Grande
StringersBernice Rentz
(3) Selected Readings
Marguerite Harnion
(4) Murmuring Zephyrs 
The Two Clocks
Glee Club
(5) Selections, two pianos 
Margaret Cooms and Leonore Davies
(6) Trio
My Buddy
Stringers
(7) My Lady Cnloe
They Met on tlie Twig of Chest
nut Tree
Glee Club
(8) Lady of Evening
Stringers
(9) CantataLady of Shalotte
Glee Club 
So)loistsEleanor Mecklenburg, 
Maude Cook, Mary Quick, 
Bernice Rentz.
Annual Junior Banquet 
Held on Chatham Roof
Spring lias got into our spirits, 
said Dr. Baker last Saturday night at 
the Junior banquet. And that ex
presses well the predominating  feel
ing and atmosphere of the Juniors 
who gathered' on the Chatham Roof 
for their last bit of playfulness as a 
class this year. Hilarity and .jovial
ity reigned supreme, the slogan of the 
party being, let us eat, drink and be 
merry.
The reaction from hard work and 
study, mid-semester examinations, and 
the dsire to forget for the moment 
those little slips of warning from the 
Registrars Office, which were still 
fresh in the memory of most of them, 
all went together to make the banquet 
a very enjoyable affair.
The list of guests included Dr. 
Baker, Director Day, Mr. H. K. Kirk
patrick, Mr. Farrell, Mr. Richardson, 
Cap Dosey, Dad White and Fritz Bow
ers. Dr. Baker, Director Day, Mr. 
Kirkpatrick, Mr. Faxrp.ll. Cap Dosey 
and Day White each gave short talks 
(Continued on Page Two.)
SPECIAL SENATE ELECTION
HELD IN M. M. ASSEMBLY
The following persons were elected 
as Senate officers of M. M. last Fri
day:
President, Blair Jessop.
Vice President, Martha Zimmer
man.
Secretary, Mary Stuempfie.
Owing to the importance of these 
officers in M. M. and to the many or
ganizations to which officers must be 
elected and to the eligibility of De
sign girls to offices of the various or
ganizations the M. M. elections are 
being held in advance of the time set 
for these elections on the election
schedule.J
Costume Economics Dept. 
Gives Tea to M.M. Freshmen
The M. M. Freshman were enter
tained with a tea in the M. M. Rec
reation Hall yesterday from four to 
six by the Costume Economics De
partment. The hostesses, Miss Fales, 
Head of the Department, Miss Jakway, and Miss Von Steenberg ap
pointed the following committee from 
the Plebe Class to take care of the 
affair: Rebecca Tontius, Elfa Hines,
Eloise Ellenger and Margaret Carson.
SENIOR WEEK PROGRAM 
TENTATIVELY OUTLINED
Plans for Senior Week, under the 
direction of H. J. McCormickT are 
progressing rapidly. The dates are 
to be from Friday, June 8, to June 
15. The program will include bac
calaureate services, tea dance, swim
ming party, boat excursion and picnic, 
mens banquet, theater party, Com
mencement exercises and Senior ball.
The graduating class of the four 
schools Will; number approximately 
37 students. They will be given 
a baccalaureate servicei on Sunday 
evening of June 10, followed the next 
day and the remainder o& the week 
by a series of celebrations and fes
tivities which will terminate in the 
Senior ball, given, as usual, by the 
Junior class.
Programs from other colleges are 
being examined and the committee 
expects to present; something novel 
in the arrangement of the festivities 
for this year.
A tentative schedule of events is as 
follows:
Week opens Friday, Juno 8.
Sunday, June 10  Baccalaureate 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Engineers to Hear Three 
Lectures in 218 Science
Two conspicuous scientists will lec
ture in Room 218 College of Engineer
ing, within the next ten days.
On Friday night, April 2, Dr. R. A. 
Millikan, well-known physicist and 
college professor, will discuss Some 
Successes and Some Failures of the 
Electron Theory. Dr. Millikan is es
pecially prominent in scientific fields 
as the first to succeed in isolating an 
electron. At present he is director 
of the Norman Bridge Laboratory of 
Physics, and chairman of the admin
istrative council, at California Insti
tute of Technology, Pasadena.
 Dr. Zay Jeffries, Metallurgical En
gineer, of Cleveland, will give a se
ris of two lectures Monday and Tues
day evening3, April 30 and May 1. I-Iis 
first lecture will be on The Harden
ing of Non-Ferrous Metals, and in 
his second discussion ho will treat 
The Hardening of Steel.
Dr. Jeffries is widely known in the 
Pittsburgh district through his no
table work as a Mining and Metallur
gical Engineer. His specialty is met
allography, the study of tlie physical 
properties of metals.
All of the coming lectures are 
scheduled for 8:30 each evening in 
Room 218, College of Engineering. 
Special invitations have been sent by 
Dr. President T. S. Baker to various 
scientific and engineering organiza
tions in the city.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Fifty Pittsburgh business men and 
executives, representing the employ
ers of tlie Night School men in tlie 
Department of Electrical Equipment 
and Construction were guests at a 
Student-Employer Dinner held Exhi
bition Night, April 20. It ^vas tlio 
first meeting of tho kind ever hold at 
Carnegie Tech, and it is significant 
of the lively interest taken by this 
group of night students in affairs 
other than attendance to classes.
The affair has'.established a preco
dent that might) well be followed 
by other groups of night students. By 
this means, invaluable relationship is 
sure to be established between the In
stitute and outside industrial inter
ests.
About 70 students and faculty mem
bers were also in attendance at the 
dinner meoting. Following a repast, 
tho men snt down with tho students 
to talk things over. Several of tho 
employers spolce, all of them com
mending the service that Carnegie 
Tech is offering to mon employed dur
ing the day to advance their training. 
Some of tho spealcors took tho oppor
tunity to point out Instancos in which 
employes had bottered their jobs and 
their opportunities by attending night 
classes here.
Frank C. Ashe, acting head of the 
department, Served as toastmaster. 
Among the speakors were Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker, president; John T. Morris, 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
Newly Elected Staff 
To Publish Shilling
The elections of the new staff of 
the Shilling was announced Wednes
day, following the appearance of the 
third issue of the publication this 
year. The new staff headed by Anna 
Kirker, Editor and Mildred Abel, 
Business Manager will take charge of 
making up the fourth and final issue 
which will appear on the Campus 
about May 18.
The following staff was elected by 
the retiring staff to carry on the du
ties for next year.
Editor ....................................Anna Kirker
Associate Editor.. .Janet Perry, Arts
Art Editor.........Rosemary Doyle, Arts
Associate Art Editor.J. D. Hogan, Arts
Business Manager....................................
..................Mildred Abel, M. M. C. C.
Advertising Manager.............................
.........Sarah May Everett, M. M. C C.
Circulation Mgr. .Ellen Eyeman, Arts
Circulation Mgr........................................
................Dorothy Smith, M. M. C. C.
Editorial Staff.
M. M. C. C., Jane Markel, Mildred 
Tutein.
Arts, Louise Colebrook, Walter 
Leuba, Norman Hoeffer.
Under the retiring staff the Schill
ing has had a very successful year. 
Financially the paper will almost 
break even which is quite' an im
provement over last years report 
which showed a deficit of several hun
dred dollars. Helen Duncomhe was 
editor and Ray Fine was Business 
Manager for the past year.
Y. M. Student Conference 
Will Be Held at Silver Bay
From June 14.to 22 representatives 
of the Y. M. from seventy-five lead
ing colleges and universities will 
hold a conference at Silver Bay on 
Lake George, N. Y.
Last year Carnegie Tech was well 
represented. Fifteen men were 
chosen and they all returned with 
the report that the Silver Bay Con
ference was the biggest thing in their 
lives.
Anyone interested in this confer
ence should see Mr. R. Davis at the 
Y. M. office.
MUSIC STUDENTS RECITAL TO 
BE HELD IN LITTLE THEATER 
SUNDAY, APRIL 29, 8:15 P. M.
Students of tho Department of Mu
sic will give a recital in tho Llttlo 
Theater at 8:15 uext Sunday evening, 
April 29. Tho program is to bo as 
follows:
1. Beethoven. Piano Concerto No. 3
LargeRondo, Allegro 
Rose Soiger
2. Caccini. Amarilli
Naomi Parkinson
3. Mozart. Larghetto 
Mozart. Minuet
Marie Kleyle
4. Dvorak. Songs My Mother Taught
Mo ..............Glzolla S. Trautmaii
5. Liszt. Piano Concerto in E flat
Nancy Fast 
Accompanists 
Gertrude R. Dodds, Matthew N. Frey
CONFUSION CAUSES 
NOMINATION DELAY
New Constitution Article 
M i s u n d e rstood at Last 
Weeks Assemblies
T. N. GRIGGS
elected vice president of that organi
zation for no.-cL year.
Ho is hear lily in favor of the now 
constitution and says It is the bost 
thing that has ever neon brought up 
in tills school Ip the 1orm of Student 
Government.
On being asked his opinion on a 
graduate manager for non-nthlotle ac
tivities, ho sad, that ho bollevod It 
was just as necessary as a .graduate 
manager of athlotice, but It would 
not ho expedient to havo one at pres
ent time duo to financial conditions.
(Continued on Page Two.)
MYSTERIOUS NIGHT WILL 
BE HELD NEXT WED.
On May 4 at 8:30 p. m., tho stu
dents of tho Painting Illustrating and 
Applied Arts Departments of Design 
School will assemble forthat wild 
and ghostly party known ae Mysteri
ous Night, which talcos place about 
tills timo overy yeru*. Tho affair Is 
to bo held In the studios of the two 
departments which will be decorated 
and lighted to produce a mysterious 
atmosphere.
Tlio party is very informalthe, 
artists hoing instructed to wear 
smocks. The Collegiate Imps will 
play and the dancing will be Inter
rupted by a game, and a stunt or two 
with refreshments later.
The tickets are $.75 apiece and can 
be used only by a student of one of 
these departments, however ono 
member of a couple may be a stu
dent of some other department of, 
the school.
Tho chairman of the committee is 
Chuck Casper, his assistant is B. J. 
Mahan. E. P. Couse will see to the 
decorating and Ed Miller to the mu
sic and entertainment.
Tlio nominations for, and election 
of, noxt years assembly and class of
ficers in the various colleges aro at, 
present In a rather mixed state.
Tho trouble lies in tho fact that 
tho now constitutions article cover
ing the nomination and election of 
officers was not generally understood 
at the Assemblies last week.
Margaret Morrison has already 
elected1 their Senate officers, hut 
havo had no nominations of class of
ficers. I
iSclonco nominations, both assembly 
and class, have boen made.
Arts and Industries nominations 
will talco placo this wook,
Following Is tho list of Sclonco 
'School nominations:
Nominations of Offlcor.*i, 
Athletic CouncilW. H. Ryan, C 
M. Hollingsworth.
Senior ClassProsldont: B, Robortoon, P. Sliucker, C. N. Hollingsworth, 
Enos Johnston.
Soorotary: IT. Wilson, It. Clement 
Treasurer: D. A. Shoorko, It. 10, 
Kramer, R. Gargott,
Senate: G. Cooloy, W. Fencll, S. 
Bittner, W. Ryan, E. Johnston, D. A. 
Shoorko, E. It. Patton, It. A, Garbott.
Jonlor Ciaos, Science. 
President: M. Matthor, M. I-Loor, 10. 
Fra z I or, E. Gllbort.
Secretary: J, Bright, E Fra/,lor, R. 
Rolgelmolor, F, 0, McClelland.
Treasurer: G. Slyo, M. Soumgoour, 
M. Matter.
'Senate: I). A. Garlnor, J. R, Silver
man, IT, Smith,, C. IT. Tamos, J. 
Schucliert, Cy Hoonnlnfior, G. Slyo, 
IT. P. ItoNsbach.
Thlstlo Editor: G. Slyo, O. Will.
INSTALL LOCAL 
CHAPTER OF PI 
DELTA EPSILON
Carnegie Chapter Installed By 
J. F. Conlin Jr. of Lehigh 
University at Banquet Held 
at Fort Pitt Sat. April 21
DR. BAKER INITIATED
ScionooSophomoro Clar.n. 
Prsident: P. E. Meyor, N. K. Mof(Con tinned on Pago Throe.)
ARE YOU 8UPERSTITIOU8?
N. Griggs to Head 
Y. M. C. A. Next Year
T. N. Griggs will be installed as 
President of the Carnegie Tech Y. 
M. C. A., Friday afternoon, at 4:30, 
in the Y Cljb Room. Others to be 
installed at the same time aro 
eorge Allison, College of Fine Arts, 
as vice president; E. G. Frazier, Col
lege of Engineering, as secretary and 
the new' cabinet, which will be an
nounced at that time,
Iho new officers were announced 
at the close of the balloting Saturday 
noon. Over twice as many votes 
were caet In this election than In any 
previous Y" election, showing an in
creasing Interest; In one of Carnegie's 
younger organizations.
ARE YOU SUPERETITIOU8?
BRIDGE AND TEA AT
FORBE8 HALL, APRIL 28
When? Saturday, April 28, from 
two to five.
Where? Forbes Hall.
What? Much fun, much playing of 
bridge and 500, many prizes for high 
and low scores, much entertainment, 
much food!
Why? To have a good time.
Are You Coming? Of course! 
Everyone will bo there. This Is a 
time when the men will be jealous 
the girls are going to entertain them
selves.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
List of Contributors 
To Puppet Increasing
Tho Carnoglo Puppet will bo on salo 
this wook. Although it Booms to bo 
closo on the heols of tlio lust number, 
because of the delay In getting tho 
Tootin' number out, the now Puppet 
will have no l?t down In Its usual at
tractiveness.
The Puppet staff is proparing to 
produce a number for Campus Week, 
that will be even better than the 
Tootin number. While it will not bp 
known officially as tho Campus Week 
number, some local humor and wit 
will be injected into it, and every at
tempt will be made to make It the 
beat number that Puppet has ever pro
duced.
James K. Matter, editor-in-chief, 
announces that the number of con
tributors is increasing with each is
suo, which explains why the Puppet 
has been getting better and better 
each time. He states, however, that 
there Is plenty of room for more im
provement and is glad to receive con
tributions and suggestions for Im
provement from the student body.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Alpha Alpha Nu, honorary journal
istic fraternity, was installed as Pi 
Delta Epsilon at a formal installation 
held at the Fort Pitt last Saturday 
evening. The charter members, com
prised of tlio active members of the 
local, Alpha Alpha Nu, were first in
stalled by John F. Conlin, Jr., of Le
high University and editor of the Le
high Burr after which the new ini
tiates of Alpha Alpha Nu wore ini
tiated into the national fraternity by 
the newly installed Carnegie Chapter.
The charter members of the local 
chapter of PI Delta Epsilon installed 
on Saturday evening are Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker, J. A. Berno, IT. A. Bowman,. 
E. A. Brand, J. D. Evans, J. N. Frank
lin, R. B. Keller, C. E. Landorold, J. 
K. Matter, .T. D. Mawhinney, D. C. Por
terfield, T. S. Repplier, IT. D. Sonnenian, IT. F. Simpson, and V. H. Stromqulst. The new Initiates to Pi Della 
Epsilon were Kenneth Arnold, Teusdalo Barney, B. Broudy, Harry F. Dloter, and Charles Hollingsworth. F. 
L. Knowles, Science 22, was also In
stalled with the now chapter.
In connection with the installation, 
a banquet was hold at which ad
dresses wc^-e made by Dr. Thomas S. 
Baker, John F. Conlin, Jr.. Lehigh 2:5, 
Robort F. Lovett, Unlvorslty of Illi
nois, nnd D. C .Porterfield former 
president of Alpha Alpha Nu and now 
president of tho local chapter of Pi 
Delta Epsilon.
The eloctlons to Il Delta 'Epsilon 
are made from studonts who havo 
done commendablo work on student 
publications, and tho granting (if u 
chapter of a national honorary jour
nalistic fraternity to Carnoglo should 
promote greater Interest In the cam
pus publications.
Tho fraternity was foundod at Syraeuno University In 100!) and through 
rapid expansion now numbers thirtysix aetivo chapters including tho olmp(Continued On Pago Two.)
Hoenniger Elected 
President of Teknon
Club Hears Dr. Abel, Mission
ary From New Guinea
Cy Hoonnlngor was olectod presi
dent of tho Toknon Club for tho year 
108*1024, Other oflleoru aro: .Jano
Marlcol, vice president; Klddlo Gll
bort, secretary; Isobol So wash, treas
urer.
Dr. Abel, a missionary from tho Is
land of Now Guinea addressed tho 
club at this mooting, and gavo an In
teresting talk on tho customs of these 
people and tho work that is being 
dono to provent tho extinction of tho 
aboriginal races by giving them tho 
civilization of the rest of j.ho world.
The current yenr has boen a partic
ularly successful ono for tho club. 
Under the leadership of Dr. Kerr It 
has moro than doubled Its membership. Tho series of lectures, or talks, 
dealing with the first books of tho 
Bible has been so intoresting that tho 
members regret that tlio year is al
most over.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB TO
GIVE DANCE FRIDAY, APRIL 27
The Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan 
Club will give a dance next Friday 
evening, April 27, at 8:30 oclock, ini 
tlie Union.
The dance is open to both Pitt; and 
Carnegie students, and the price of 
admission is one dollar per couple. 
Tho Collegiate Imps are to furnish 
the music, and there will be special 
features during the evening.
Lady Plebes Have Horrid Fight;
Sister Sophs Are Soft, Alright
By T. 8. Repplier. 
(Information Contained Herein Not 
Guaranteed.)
Blood and gore flowed freely on 
the Carnegie Tech earn pus last Fri
day, when the Terrible Tomboys of 
Maggie Murph battled tho Awful Awtu 
ladies with blood In both tholr e^yos, 
Mr. Kipling Rhould be on hand for a 
few of those feminist occasions to 
wltnesH an honosUo-.iako light to got 
a llttlo local color for his noxt de
partmental ditty. When It comes to 
real earnestness and genuine enthus
iasm, the men havo got to stand hack 
and glvo tho flappers a chanco to roll 
up their sloeves.
Her Fatal Step.
It seems that one of the Lady 
Plebes took it upon horaelf to walk 
through the Art School at noon last 
week. Nobo.dy knows just why she 
did such a peculiar thing, but tho fact 
remains that she did. Possibly she 
needed the native culture to be found 
In that environment, or something.
But Inasmuch as she wasnt chewing 
gum or doing the debutante slouch, 
tho natives had her spotted right oft 
as a stranger, who had no right at all 
to Invadn the sacred eonflnes. Art
ists, aro like that, my children. Their 
souls aro terribly sensitive, swoet, 
things. Whonover an artist sees a Bar
barian outPlde his homo grounds, It 
hurts his or her naturally gentle soul, 
and wounds his or her prldo terribly. 
Just think of that!
Well, Flossie Fumigate, the dear, 
Bweel unspoiled child from Maggie 
Murph who never smoked moro than 
a pack of Camels a day, became tho 
Innocent object of Winnie Washout, 
who was completing her third Sopho
more year in P. and I, Winnie had 
an idea that Flossie was trying to 
vamp her architect, when the poor 
girl was merely trying to satlp.fy an 
idle curiosity as to whether his neck 
was really as black as it seemed from 
a distance. One harsh word swiftly 
(Continued on Page Four.}

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1923
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie 1 nstltuto of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postonico of. Ilttsburgb as second-class matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ........................................................
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.......................................................................
TolephonoSchenley 1)211
TolophonoSchenley 14
......... Editor-In-Chief
.. Buainess Manager
H. F. DIETER..............
MARK S. DOWNES..
ToiophonoHazel 9308
___Annodato Editor
................New Editor
TolophonoHIland 8118-J
TolephonoSchonloy 102
TelephonoHazel 9 'A fi G
W. B. CUNNINGHAM
TolephonoSeiienley 9211
Advertllng Manager 
Circulation Managor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
Eleanor Martin, P. 
L. D. Richard, A. F. 
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
C. McIConzIo, L. Ilortzman, F. D. Rossini, W.#Wlnnlng, 
Androwf}, B. DoMare, E. G. Elgle, A. E. Krogh, J. HOFFICIALS GIVE 
POVERTY DAY RULES
Dr. Baker and Dean Tarbell 
Favor Change in Rules 
Governing Event
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
13. C. Fruzior, J. II. ForgUBon, O. E. Jucoby, J, Chrlntolf, II. P. Honsbach.
BUHINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cuntltngliam, T. J. Dcimpnoy, J. B. Traudii;, I>. Moulcovltz, J. W. 
Motro. I. W. llQllIy, II. Gibson, W. A. Juclto, P. Edlo, 11. L. Banclroplt, B. 
Broud, H. Urecliei. ____________________
The Edltor-ln-Olilet I rosponilblo tor tbo policy ot tills imiior; tbo 
Managing Editor Eor the nmko up.
The Tiirtini welcome ml communications or Htudeat Interest, it signed. 
Signature will be withhold It desired. All nawB ltoins must bo In tlio studont 
postonico before 4:30 Friday. ______________________________________
Tarlali OlllceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Ofllce hoursTueBday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:0(1.
BROADENING YOUR EDUCATION
Some acquire an education through books, others through a com
bination of books and associations. .It is the undergraduate who pre
pares himself in the latter way that is really fit for the life after 
collcgc. Daily we make new associates and further develop the 
friendship and acquaintanceship of those we already know. An edu
cation is meusured by our aggressiveness in knowing others and get
ting the viewpoint of others.
Carnegie students exhibit to a great extent a feeling that is not 
exactly in accordance with the principle of education through associa
tion. Although the enrollment of the schools limits to a certain ex
tent the ideal intermingling of the students, it is felt that the Car
negie student should be acquainted with a larger number of fellowclunsmen. Those commonly classcd as popular no doubt have 
developed a largo number of close acquaintances but far too large 
a percentage of the average students havo limited their associates to 
a few dorm associates or fraternity brothers.
The call of the day is for the widely educated. The man or 
woman in tho rut remains there. It is hero at Carnegie, while we 
are preparing for the big problem in life, that we should become 
acquainted with tho oilier fellow and add to our lists of friends. No 
book, no professor and no institution can give us an education that is 
complete. A study of the ideals, characteristics and viewpoints of a 
long list of campus associates is essential to a broad college education.
Student Calendar
VOTEOFTRYU RQNCCAM PSU WK IBCTRYU L RY H
DramaTlic Taming ol! tlio Shi,own.......................8 :15, Arts Thoatcr
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
AssombTios Oollo'go o;l! .Fino Arts...........................11:30, Arts Theater
Oollogo Ol! Industries......................12:80, Industrio 104
Gollogo of. Science and .Bnginooi.'inf?....ll:30, Sci eneo 209
M. M. O. 0..............................11:30; M. M. C. O. Assembly
THURSDAY, APRIL 2G 
Founder's DayGlasses as usual.
FRIDAY, APRIL 27
Dauco Cosmopolitan Olub.....................................9:00, Oiu'iiiegio Union
Senior Ball...........................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, APRIL 28
Track* Penn and Drake Moots......................................................There
Tonnia** Oarnogio vs. Wash, and, .Toll!............................Carnegie Courts
Mike Mi<I-Went Club.............................2:80, Administration Building
Dauco Oarnogio Musical DGC..CMX.........................9:00, Oarnogio Union
SUNDAY, APRIL 29
Recital-Dojmrtmont oJ! Music..................-,................8:15, Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2
TennisWest Virginia vs. Oarnogio...................3:00, Oarnogio Courts
FRIDAY, MAY 4
TennisOarnogio vs. Oborlin..............................3:00, Carnegie Courts
P. & I. Mysterious N'ight..................................9:00, P. & I. Department
SATURDAY, MAY 5
TrackOarnogio vs. Penn Stato..................................State College, Pa.
Interscliolastio Meet..................................10:30, Sekenley Oval
Interseholustie Meet....................................1:00, Carnegie Oval
SmokerY. M. C. A. Smoker................................7 :45, Carnegie Union
League of Women Voters 
Holds Special Meeting
The League of Women Voters is 
a new idea at Carnegiei Tech, and is 
receiving enthusiastic support by the 
girls. Last Wednesday there was a 
special meeting of the league in the 
Exhibition Room oi the Arts Build
ing and Miss -Sara Soffel spoke about 
Women in Politics. 
iSbe said that women in politics 
must be particularly careful of their 
actions, because they are so liable 
to criticism, not only from the men. 
but from women as well.4 For this 
reason, women should know what 
they are about.
Miss Soffel urged the girls to ac
quaint themselves with conditions, so 
that if t.hoy ever took an active part 
in polities, they would know what to 
do. Aibovo all they could be intelli
gent. voters.
it is the idea of tho girls t;o secure 
a good speaker for each of their 
meetings, ye that they will not only 
hoar an entertaining talk, but learn 
a little of political affairs at the 
same time.
T. N.GRIGGS ELECTED
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
(Continued From Page One.)
He assures tho students tho assem
blies for next year will be both inter
esting and educational and wishes 
the students to co-operate with him 
by their attendance.
Griggs was president of both his 
Freshman and Junior classes. He 
is a member of Woodlawn Club, 
Theta Tau, Honorary, Druids and Del
ta Skull. The commitees on which 
he has worked are innumerable, and 
he is a type who works hard in all 
his activities.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Agnes Repplier Speaks 
At M.M.C.C. Assembly
Wednesday, the ISth, the Margaret 
Morrison assembly was held in Car
negie Music Hall, instead of the usual 
assembly room. Many Pittsburgh
women were invited to hear Miss 
Agnes Repplier, the famous writer of 
essay lallt. Miss Breed read, the 
Scriptures and conducted prayer, 
after which Dr. Baker introduced the 
speaker.
Mias Repplier was ai most interest
ing speaker. Her wit was exceeding
ly keen, although she was often sar
castic to the point of cruelty. She 
spoke on Sentimental America, and 
her points of argument were exceed
ingly well chosen.
As usual, we were urged to dis
criminate between sentimentality* and 
sentimentalism, and Miss Repplier 
used soveral laugh provoking storloa 
to Illustrate the difference. Evory* 
ono enjoyed the talk very much. At 
its close, the assembly adjourned with 
tho students singing tho Alma Mator.
INSTALL LOCAL CHAPTER
OF PI DELTA EPSILON
Quite a little comment both pro and 
con has been heard tills year concern
ing the advisability of holding a Pov
erty Day. As a whole the student 
body has been in i'avor of continuing 
the tradition that was started in 1920 
by a Science School Poverty Day. 
However, some alumni and others 
very much interested In Carnegie 
Tech havo expressed the view that 
it would bo for tho best interests of 
the school if the event were dropped 
from tho calendar.
Dr, Baker and Dean Tarbell wore i 
asked to give tlielr opinions of Pov
erty Day and it was found that both 
held tho view that some changes 
should bo made in tho Poverty Days 
held in tho past.
Dr. Baker made the following com
ment:
I have been asked to give my opin
ion in regard to Poverty Day. In 
answer to this question I should say 
that this event last year aroused a 
great deal of unfavorable criticism. 
If we are to have Poverty Day, I hope 
that there will be no grounds for the 
objections that were raised then. The 
faculty has no desire to Interfere with 
any wholesome and legitimate amuse
ment on the part of the students. We 
want to see the best possible college 
spirit prevail in our institution. We 
are still young and we are creating 
traditions, and it would be most un
fortunate if the standard set for last 
year's Poverty Day became the tradi
tional standard. It would be far bet
ter to abandon it unless we can make 
it a worth while incident in the years 
work.
(Signed) THOMAS S. BAKER.
Dean Tarbell carried the discussion 
further and suggested some changes 
which he thinks would be of benefit 
to the school in the line of Plejie-Sopli 
contests. His statement follows:
Most college traditions have an 
humble origin. A now idea starts' in 
a small way, and If It has merit it de
velops into something interesting and 
permanent; otherwise it retires as 
gracefully as it can into oblivion. The 
law of the survival of tlie; fittest ap
plies here, I talco it, as elsewhere in 
life.
"Poverty Day was first held on 
February 25, 1020, as a Science School 
affair, with the engineering Freshmen 
only participating. The next year it 
included all tho schools. On account 
ol! certain inherent weaknesses, I per
sonally feel that it is still very much 
in the experimental stage. Thought 
should be given to its development 
into a custom that is worth while, or, 
if it lacks possibilities for the future, 
tho sooner It is replaced by a more 
promising ovont the better. I would 
raise this querydo the Seniors and 
Juniors, who may have had opportun
ities to soo or learn about traditions 
olHowhoro, really fool that Poverty 
Day, as it now oxists, is up to our 
standards along other lines? The 
Athletic Council, for instance, is en
deavoring to placo our athletics on a 
"Class A basis, and tlio Student 
Council 1ms just reorganized to do 
bigger things. Frankly, is Povorty 
Day a "Class A proposition?.
There Is small uso In moroly criti
cizing, and not trying to help. Ono 
way of attempting to solvo the prob
lem, as 1 fjoo it, would bo to consider 
broadening tho ovont Into a competi
tion for unique and humorous cos
tumes of all descriptions, without em
phasizing paucity of attiro. Add othor 
stunts, and thon malco the wholes 
tho Freshman feature at a mld-wlntor 
carnival to bo hold between semes
ters, under a plan that would not In
terfere with tho scholastic schodulo. 
The other classes woup also bo rep
resented by features, and FroahmenSophomore contests of new typos 
could be Introduced to the end that 
a big mid-year relaxation affair might 
result. The indispensable factor in 
such a proposal would be the pres
ent missing link in our chain of hap
pinessthe new gymnasium. May 
some kind Providence hasten its 
achievement.
DEAN TARBELL.
General Rules for Poverty Day
All costumco must be worn between 11:20 A. M. and 1:30 P. M. 
only.
a. Freshmen will positively be prohibited from attending classes 
attired in costumes.
b. All costumes must Indicate a state of poverty.
Freshmen in the various schools will be judged at their respective 
school assemblies, which shall start at 11:30 sharp.
a. A committee composed of three upper classmen, appointed by 
the Chairman of each assembly will select the Freshmen who 
rcceivc the greatest amount of applause as they present them
selves before the assemblies.
b. Two eliminations may be necessary but such will be left to 
the discretion of the committee.
c. The members of the Student Council of each college will act 
as a censorship committee in their respective colleges. All 
costumes adjudged by this committee to be objectionable will 
be barred from judgment and the parade.
a. Not over three men and not over three women will be exepted 
from all Freshmen Regulations in the College of Fine Arts, 
and not less than two men and two women shall be exempted.
b. Not more than ten nor less thart seven v/ill be released from 
regulations in the College of Engineering.
c. Not more than six nor less than four will be released from 
regulations in the College of Industries.
d. Not more than six nor less than four will be exempted in the 
M. M. College.*
e. Exemption cards will be issued to all who are exempted.
A Parade of all Freshmen will be formed promptly at 12:30 P. M. 
by the Regulation Committees of each school on Woodlawn Ave
nue directly in front of the College of Fine Arts and the parade 
will be staged on the Campus for not more than twenty minutes. -
a. Pictures of all Freshmen entering the contest will be taken at 
the close of the parade.
b. Pictures of all Freshmen exempted from regulations will also 
be taken and their names shall be printed in the next issue of 
the Tartan following the parade.
LOTS OF FUN
VOTING FOR CARNEGIE
QUEEN STARTS TODAY
TICKET OFFICE FOR 
CAMPUS WEEK PLAY
Appoint W. B. Cunningham 
as Business Manager of 
Play Committee
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
tors grunted to Carnegie Tech and 
Wabusli College at tho recent conven
tion held at Appleton, Wisconsin. 
Thirty-five chapters are spread over 
twenty-two States and the District of 
Columbia and a chapter is also lo
cated at the University of Toronto in 
Canada.
Numbered among the honorary 
members of Pi. Delta Epsilon are the 
names of. Warren G. Harding and 
Dean Thomas Arckle Clark of the 
University of Illinois.
Those who were unable to attend 
the installation of the Carnegie Chap
ter as well as alumni of the local 
Alpha Alpha Nu will be initiated at 
a future date.
Constitution Discussed
At Industries Assembly
Industries Assembly held in Room 
104, Industries, last Wednesday, was 
poorly attended, only about 125 stu
dents being present.
President Anderson called the meet
ing to order. Van Atta and Rubenstein put on a humorous number 
which was well received. President 
Anderson then announced that T. N. 
Griggs had been elected president of 
the Student Council. Scliillinger 
made an announcement on the Junior 
banquet. Soph, and Plebe class an
nouncements, and then the discussion 
of the new constitution was taken up.
Zell and Dykeman explained any 
questioned article in the constitution 
and President. Anderson pointed out 
that two-thirds of all students must 
veto for tho constitution before it 
earn T)o accepted, it will bo votod on 
this woolc.
ANNUAL JUNIOR BANQUET
HELD ON CHATHAM ROOF
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
expressing t.holr pleasuro on attend
ing tho banquet.
Al Schilling!! presided as toastmas
ter. Tho menu and entertainment, 
wore In accordance with tho spirit of 
tho affair.
A FRESHMANS NIGHTMARE
Her black eyes flashed like diamonds 
Her lips were wet with wine,
She danced just like a fairy queen, 
Her beauty was divine.
I said to her: Could Paradise 
Contain such graceful'form ?
She looked at me and sweetly smiled. 
ThenI woke up in the dorm.
The Olio.
The appointment of W. B. Cunning
ham, to the ofllce of Business Man
ager on the Campus Week Play Com
mittee, completes the organization of 
that committee. The committee has 
gone into the matter of tickets and 
the distribution thereof.
It is thought a good plan to inaugu
rate a Campus Ticket Office, and 
have this in some place which would 
be centrally located and in the path 
of the students. Accordingly, the 
plan ot placing a tent at the junction 
of the cut and Woodlawn avenue 
is thought quite feasible. Jack Wil
lard is not in favor of preliminary 
tickets, for he thinks they are unnec
essary. They are certainly so if the 
ticket ofiice plan goes through, and 
it most likely will.
Harry Hamilton refuses to say any
thing about his play which will im
part; any information. After much 
questioning he finally condescended 
to say in his inimitable manner: 
Are you superstitious? Harry ad
mitted that lie has one ol*' two big 
demands on tlni Campus Week Com
mittee, and one ol! these is that there 
be a freezer of ice cream supplied the 
cast for each performance. He says 
he does not favor the customary 
Mashed Potato Cones. He must be 
superstitious too. Word has slipped 
through the closed door that the entlro Freshman claas in the Drama De
partment will bo among thoao in the 
cast of this supor-production.
O. B. Nownran, managor of the 
stage and production of tho Campus 
Woelc vaudeville show, announces the 
completion of tho program. Aa yet it 
la a bit; uncertain whether certain of 
tho tomporamontal artists will be in 
tho right frame of mind to appear, so 
tho program will bo withhold until 
tho noxt Issue ol! the Tartan, which 
will be the big Campus Week iasuo. 
Under penalty of death 'and dostruc 
tlon the committee is bound to keep 
certain facta concerning tho aurpriaea 
at the show a secret, but it is rumorod that a certain well known Jazz 
Orcheatra composed of six members 
will play.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
ROAMINS
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Give that query careful considera
tion, in fact be serious with yourself 
and ask theae questions:
Would, you walk under a ladder?
Do you turn cold with apprehension 
when you spill the salt?
Do you settle down to seven years 
of bad luck when you break a mir
ror?
Pete Boone did ................. in fact,
Pete carried! two rabbit feet, so he 
would have double good luck. But 
maybe you dont know who Pete 
Boone is?
Well, Pete is the blackest inhabi
tant of the blackest inhabited town
in Mississippi ............ Tuchalvo.
Pete knew he was superstitious 
......... he admitted it.
Again we ask YOU, are you supers
titious? Do you know that our own 
Cy Comfort carried a rabbits foot 
tied with a piece of plaid ribbon in
to the W. & Jgame last fall? Just 
'before the end1 of the game Cy threw 
'away tho hind leg and you know 
what happened.
Ask Cy if he is superstitious. Ask 
Jimmy.. Robertson what he carries 
With him (not counting the ball) 
when lie gets away on a long run. 
Ask Burt Munhall if he carries a 
lucky coin. Get that information and 
get it quick. It will pay you. Again, 
are YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
ROAMER.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Mary Hepburn, Catherine Hodlcinson, j 
Thelma Howell, Marion Jones, Mar-) 
garet Johnson. Lois Killinger, Gerald
ine Kelly, Elizabeth King, Lucille 
Kuelineisen, Cariline Lockwood, Ger
trude Lyons, Dorothy Levison, Anna 
Light, Jeannette Llewellyn, Helen 
Macrum, Mary Marshall, Elizabeth 
Marlin, Mary Morrison, Eleanor Mar
tin, Hazel Miller, Ada McCartney, 
Helen McConkey, Mary Jane McCright, Martha McLaughlin, Nadene 
McLenahan, Dorothea McMinn, Helen 
McKee, Edith MacLeod, Ruth McDavid, Alice Nixon, Katherine Put
nam, Elizabeth Pratt, Hortense Purdy, 
Grace Patterson, Winifred Rice, Jo
sephine Reed, Eleanora Schmberg, 
Ruth Snyder, Anne Stewart, Helen 
Schade, Ester Strauss, Helen Vernon, 
Anne Weber, Elizabeth Wright, Clara 
Waldeck, Frances Walker, Dorothea 
Wood, Clara Waterman.
College of Fine Arts.
Helen Allen, Celia Bachtel, Eliza
beth Boyd, Esta Mae Brnett, Ger
trude Dodds, Edith Duff, Catherine 
Eisaman, Elsa Griesser, Margaret 
Harmon, Alice Kirk, Sarah Moone, 
Mary Osbur.
DO YOU,R DUTYVOTE FOR THE 
QUEEN OF CARNEGIETODAY!
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves.
Sunday Services:
Open Forum ................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship... 11:00 A.M. 
Sunday, April 29 
Sermon:
Liberty Under Authority.
A cordial invitation is extended, 
especially to students.
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
LIFE
One has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip until another year, 
The same rare interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agency.
Mellon National BankOliuer Jlue.S Smvthfield
1
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School _____ 9:45 A.M. j
College Mens Bible
Class ...............10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M. :
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. : 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS i
Pythias
Nodoggone it. I 
skipped over to classLtliis morning without 
my Dixons,Eldorado!
17 leadsall dealers
EL2>0
"Hie 7naster dmm'ngpencilARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
$378 Arts Ball Profits 
Disposed of at Assembly
The question as to what should be 
done with the money left over from 
the Arts ball and the Post ball 
dances was discussed at the Arts as
sembly. E. C. Landefelt, the chair
man of the Ball Committee, reported 
that $37S.OO profit had been realized, 
besides one hundred dollars or so 
left over from last year that had 
not been touched
He suggested that this last be left 
standing for next years ball and that 
part of the money be donated as is 
the custom to some worthy activity 
on the campus and that the rest be 
given to the man who broke his hip 
while working on the decorating of 
the foyer. He said that this man 
was an outsider and had been in the 
hospital ever since he had fallen 
from the ladder while working the 
night before the ball.
There was much discussion and a 
resolution was finally moved, second
ed and passed, that the one hundred 
dollars -be carried over for next; 
years ball, that $2f>0 be paid the man 
in the hospital and that the remain
der, somo $12S, bo given to tho Kilts 
fund, which was considered a very 
neody cause. Aflor several announoemonta tlio mooting was adjourned.
CAMPUS WEEK 
IS
COMING!
MAY 
24, 25, 26
y\
Wantedmen to find ike answer
THIS is written to the man who loves to seek the 
unknown quantity. He is the kind of labora
tory worker who ventures into untried fields of ex
periment, rather than the man who tests materials.
Industry has need of both types, but of tho 
former there is a more pressing, demand.
College men may have been discouraged from 
pursuing pure research. In this highly practical 
age it may seem there is little room for work 
which does not have an immediate dollars and 
cents application. But such is not the case.
The pure research man is the pathfinder. With' 
out him our fountain of knowledge would dry up. 
His findings in themselves may be uncommercial, 
but they establish a field for others to develop.
Volta workqd out the crude voltaic pileunim 
portant until other men improved and applied 
it. And so with Papin in the field of steam, or 
Lavoisier in chemistry.
Men of the inquiring slant of mind, stick to your 
last. In post graduate study, on the faculty, in the 
laboratory of some industrial organization, there 
will always be an X to baffle other men and call 
for the keenest thought of you blazers of the trail.
Astern Electric
Since 1S69 makers and distributors qf electrical equipment
Number29 of g series

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
GOOD TIME MADE IN 
FRAT TRACK EVENTS
Condition of Track Not Per
fect-Varsity Possibilities 
in Abundance
The inter-fraternity track meet held 
at Carnegie Bowl last Saturday was 
very successful in every way. While 
the athletes showed they were not in 
the best of shape, they did remark
ably well in most events. The time 
in most of the running events was 
rather slow, hut that was due largely 
to the soft condition of the track 
which did not respond permanently 
to the valiant efforts of Jerry Slye 
and a host of assistants to get it into 
the best of condition. Coach Beeler, 
however, was able to get a line on 
several men who are expected to show 
up well on the varsity this spring.
The preliminaries were held 
throughout the week, beginning Tues
day evening at 4 oclock. Sixty-six 
men came out for the 100-yard dash. 
Out of these 22 qualified for the semi
finals. The same number qualified for 
the semi-finals of the 220-yard dash. 
These preliminaries were held on 
Wednesday evening. On Thursday 
440-yard men went through their 
paces, and fourteen qualified for the 
finals. There were no semi-finals in 
this event. On Friday the prelimi
naries of the 220-yard low hurdles 
were held, and one man qualified in 
each of the six heats. The men win
ning the three heats in which the 
slowest time was made ran again in 
finals,- the first and second men, Sul
livan and Sampson, being awarded the 
fourth and fifth places respectively in 
the finals. The other three men ran 
on Saturday, and copped the first 
three places.
The finals on Saturday afternoon 
were hotly contested. The wannest 
race was that between Bohn and 
Christoff in the 100-yard dash. The 
men finished so closely together that, it 
was a matter of opinion as to which 
was first with the judges awarding the 
decision to Bohn. The time, 11 sec
onds, was good considering the condi
tion of the track, though both men 
had done better in the preliminaries 
and semi-finals when they were not 
tired out. Ferrall and Bohn were the 
only t.wo men to cop more than one 
first place. The former had first in 
the 880-yard run and in the mile run, 
while Bohn took first place in the 100- 
yard dash and in the broad jump. 
Bohn also had second place in the 
220-yard dash.
The time made by Cramer in the 
220-yard dash was considered good at 
24 1-5 seconds. Schwab stepped off 
the 440 yards in 57 4-5, while Ferralls 
time in the 880-yard run was 2:12 4-5.
The remainder of the events which 
will be held on May 2G, during Cam
pus Week,
The results of the finals run off Sat
urday are as follows:
100-yard dashFirst, Bohn, Delta 
Xi; second, Christoff, Pi Kappa Alpha; 
third, Mefort, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; 
fourth, Schmidt, Woodlawn; fifth, 
Nichol, Delta Tau Delta. Time, 11 
seconds.
220-yard dashFirst, Cramer, Delta 
Upsilon; second, Bohn, Delta Xi; 
third, Christoff, Pi Kappa Alpha; 
fourth, Lieberlcniglit, Delta Xi; fifth,
Fraternities to House . 
High School Athletes
Y.M.C.A. to Give Big Smoker 
For Students and Visitors
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
The Interscholastic Track Meet is j 
only two weeks off. This event offers j 
a great opportunity to Carnegie Tech. j 
It means that there will be about one ; 
thousand high school athletes here | 
for two days. These men come from, 
five states and are a representative j 
group of the Tri-State district. The i 
student body can do a world of good j 
for Carnegie Tech by making a favor
able impression on them.
The various fraternities on the 
campus are going to accommodate the 
high school teams who come from 
distant towns. Up to the present 
time however, they have not shown 
very much co-operation. \
The Y. M. C. A. is going to give a 
big smoker for the student body and 
the visitors on the night of May 5. 
This smoker is going to be a big 
thing and should not be missed by 
anyone.
C. N. Hollingsworth and his as
sistants have been working very hard 
on this track meet and have almost 
completed the great amount of detail 
work which was necessary to put it 
across. Due to his efforts there are 
approximately twice as many schools 
in the meet this year than ever be
fore. The only other thing which 
must be done now is that the stu
dents must co-operate. Do some val
uable work for a better Carnegie 
Tech.
Room and Board
Two rooms on third floor, 
large enough to accommodate 
several. Very desirable loca
tion. Two baths and shower. 
Breakfast and evening dinner. 
Garage space. Reasonable rates. 
Call Hiland 9556. 5316 Liberty
Avenue.
Temmel, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Time, 
24 1-5 seconds.
44-yard dashFirst, Schwab, Pi 
Kappa Alpha; second, Schmidt, Wood
lawn; third, Swanson, Delta Phi 
Delta; fourth, Donnelly, Boss Hall; 
fifth, Dyke, Theta Xi. Time, 57 4-5 
seconds.
880-yard runFirst, Ferrall, Sigma 
Nu; second, Bright, Delta Upsilon; 
third, Swanson, Delta Phi Delta; 
fourth, Koppes, Delta Tau Delta; 
fifth, Sampson, Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Time, 2 min. 12 4-5 seconds.
220-yard low hurdles-x-First, Crago, 
Scobel Hall; second, Ferguson, Theta 
Xi; third, Temmel, Sigma Alpha Ep
silon; fourth, Sullivan, Delta Tau Del
ta; fifth, Sampson, Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Time 31 1-5 seconds.
One mile runFirst, Ferrall,. Sig
ma Nu; second, Bright, Delta Upsilon; 
third, Sampson, Kappa Sigma Rho; 
fourth, Bender, Delta Mu; fifth, Lan
dis, Theta, Xi. Time, 5 min. 11 2-5 
seconds.
High jumpFirst, Goodwin, Delta 
Upsilon; tied for second, Kristof, Pi 
Kappa Alpha and Ferguson, Theta Xi; 
tied for fourth, Bowron, Beta Theta 
Pi and James. Delta Upsilon. Height, 
5 feet six inches.
Broad jumpFirst, Bolin, Delta Xi; 
second, Bastian, Beta Theta Pi; third, 
Mefort, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; fourth, 
Goodwin, Delta Upsilon; fifth, Hoadly, Delta Mu. Distance, 10 ft. 10V2 
inches.
The unofficial standing of tho fra
ternities and dormitories to date is 
as follows:
Delta Upsilon .................. 21% points
Delta Xi .............................. 1G points
Pi Kappa Alpha .............. 15% points
Sigma Nu ........................... 10 points
Sigma Alpha Epsilon... 10 points
Theta Xi ...................... 0% points
Delta Phi Delta................ G points
Woodlawn ......................... 6 points
Beta Theta Pi. .................. 5%; points
Scobel Hall ....................... 5 points
Delta Tau Delta . ;......... 5 . points
Kappa Sigma Rho........... 5 points
Delta Mu ........................... 3 points
Boss Hall ........................... 2 points
eeWhat do they Eieaa 
Senior Wrangler?
Y
OU may not have met one of those dear old 
boys,Oxonian stuff, what, what?but our 
idea of a senior wrangler is a  23 man tiyingto work 
up a lather with the wrong kind of shaving cream.
Theres no wrangling necessary to get a 
lather with Williams Shaving Cream. Squeeze 
out a spendthrifts d?,b or a tightwads dabits 
all the same. Either way you get a big, efficient 
lather that softens the beard right down to the 
base of every hair.
And best of all, this big Williams lather has 
a decidedly beneficial 
effect on your skin. No 
complexion soap could 
do more for you than 
Williams does every 
time you shave. Get a 
tube of Williams today 
and begin giving your 
face this helpful care.
Notice thehinoed cap. You can't lose it  and the tube hanga up!
Williams
Sfwiisg Cream
THE STUDENT MANAGER
What is he? What are his duties? Is he a success at Carnegie Tech? 
These are questions which might well have been asked during the past year. 
There has been more or less criticism that has coiue from various sources. 
Perhaps there needs to be an awakening, a revival of the old Carnegie Tech 
spirit.
The student manager acts as the connecting link between the graduate 
manager's office and his team. He begins as a Plebe to make his slow and 
tedious advance to a managership. It might be said that the first two years, 
are the hardest for they are full of the drudgery of making the season a 
success. There is keen rivalry as he nears the coveted position. As a first 
assistant manager he has certain minor executive duties and responsibilities. 
Then he awaits the decision of the Athletic Council sitting in solemn con
clave. He may have all the qualities and the experience necessary for a 
good manager but still be disappointed at the final reckoniug.
His duties as manager are largely executive in their nature. He must 
see that his assistants take care of the needs of the team in the right man
ner; that the home events are properly conducted and that the Visiting team 
is well taken care ofOn the trips he must attend to the business details, 
the equipment and in general keep the minds and bodies of his men as much 
at rest as possible.
As a reward for his work, he is awarded the managerial C which is 
made up of the usual sized letter for the particular sport with a bar beneath 
it. This makes the team manager distinctive from the te^m member.
The student manager of today is perhaps the industrial manager of to
morrow. As an athletic team manager, he should have the pep and spirit 
and possibly some of the fight that his team has. In some instances, this can 
be imparted to his team as the industrial manager wins the good will of his 
men and gives them encouragement. A good team and a good manager can 
generally be counted on to bring home the victory.
The student managers at Carnegie Tech may be of a better type, but 
IT IS ALWAYS POSSIBLE TO IMPROVE THE BEST.
FOOTBALL SQUAD I West Virginia Ties
PRACTICES DAILY
What about the pentathelon eyent this spring? Theres enough new 
material to provide a little more competition than there has been in past 
years.
THE SCALP AND BLADE TROPHY
Goes to Sigma Nu as a result of their decisive victory over Iota Sigma 
Delta last week. This closes another very successful season in the history 
of Inter-fraternity Dormitory basket ball. The Iota Sigs, last years cham
pions, made a strong bid for this years honors but failed to show the neces
sary class to come through.
A GOOD SHOWING
The fraternity and dormitory athletes provided some interesting events 
in the Inter-mural meet last week. Some of the races, particularly in tho 
dashes, were pretty hotly contested.
Evidently the Delta Upsilon boys profited by their workout to and from 
their house, at least enough to hold the leading position in scoring.
WE COULDNT WAIT
The impossible was accomplished last Thursday when the new gym was 
built, torn down, rebuilt, moved, etc., and all in the time that was required 
was the few spare moments of the noon hour. The Senior Architects drew 
up the plans, the Senior Commercials developed the engineering points and 
they all carried bricks for tho construction work. The venerable building 
was finally christened with a bottle of (?) amid the cheers of the students 
gathered to witness the inspiring occasion. LONG LIVE OUR NEW GYM!
Sigma Nu Cops Second Game 
Clinching Championship
Iota Sigma Delta Defeats 
i Sigma Upsilon in Finals
The Sigma Nu Fraternity basket 
ball team last Thursday night defeat
ed Iota Sigma Delta for the second 
time and thereby clinched the cham
pionship of the Interfratornity Bas
ket Ball League.
Too much credit cannot be given 
the Sigma Nu team, for in winning j 
they defeated a worthy foe. Although 
tho score was one-sided, tho game j 
was very exciting and both teams j 
fought hard from start to finish.
With Lamb leading tho way as outj 
standing star, the Sigma Nu team 
showed their superiority and right to | 
be termed champions. Lamb, al
though closely guarded, came through 
with four beautiful shots from the 
floor and five out of seven fouls. Ho 
was ably assisted by Comfort and Gil-1 
bert. Gilbert outjumped his opponent 
consistently and played well.
Cy Comfort, as always, fought hard 
all the way and even continued so 
in the dressing room after the game. 
In giving vent to his enthusiasm over 
the victory he happened to strike the 
cement wall and suffered a broken 
hand.
Iota Sigma Delta seeed to be 
swamped from the first and wore 
never dangerous in the scoring. How
ever they played hard and did not 
give up until the final whistle blew. 
Kennedy was the main works of the 
Iota Sigma Delta team. He played 
a wonderful floor game and at one 
time he dribbled the entire length of 
the floor for the only field goal which 
his team got. They tried a large num
ber of long shots but they either fell 
short or were hurried too much by 
the Sigma Nu guarding.
The lineup:
Iota Sigma Delta Sigma Nu
Cooper.................. F.............................Lamb
Wilson.................. F..............................Bubb
Byerly.................... C..........................Gilbert
Hedgren................ G........................Comfort
Kennedy................ G...........................Ferral
Field goalsLamb 4, Bubb 2, Gil
bert 1, Kennedy 1. Tries' for foul 
Byerly 4 out of 8, Lamb 5 out of 7. 
Final scoreSigma Nu 39, Iota Sigma 
Delta 6. OfficialsNichols and 
Moses.
ELECTRICAL NIGHT
MEN GIVE DINNER
lota Sigma Delta won the second 
game of the final Inter-Fraternity 
series by defeating Xi Sigmar Upsilon 
Tuesday night to tho tune of 24 
to 1G.
The gamo was very loosoly '-played 
at the beginning and neither team 
could find the basket. The. Iota 
scored1 first and at the end ot the 
first half they were on tho long 6nd 
of tlit-t 8 to 5 score.
In tile second half XI Sig came 
back strong and displayed superb 
passing, frequently, taking tho hall 
tho entire distance downi the floor by 
snappy pass work but they were un
able to drop it through for a count. 
The Iota S'igsfailed to got in for 
many clovo shots but made dome 
pretty counteis from beyond tho foul 
line; Tho guarding of both teanu* 
was close, preventing a larger score. 
ThG. lineup:
Iota Sigma Delta.
XI Sigma Up*siJon
Cooper .....................F................... Murray
Wilson ......................F.......... Jones, L. E
Byerly ......................C......................... Reed
Iiedgren  .........G.......... Jones, D. E
Kennedy ..................G.................... Bowers
Field goalsQooper 3, Wilson 5, 
Hedgren 2, Byerly 1, Murray 3, L 
E. Jones 2, Reed 1. Foul goals 
Byerly, 2 out of 6; L. E. Jones, '1 out 
of 8. RefereeFink. Umpire 
Nichol.
Golf Enthusiasts Organ
ize Unofficial Skibo Team
Scrimmages Will Feature 
Workouts of Next Two 
Weeks
On account of the Inter-mural track 
events robbing so many football can
didates of their time, spring practice 
has not only been somewhat broken 
up. but this interference with regular 
practice caused Field Coach Marks to 
have his men report to the Freshman 
Field again.
The new men and Plebes have been 
turning out in larger numbers than 
the regulars, and both coaches have 
been pleased with the determination 
which their men have shown in work
ing toward a definite aim. Now that 
tho men are in fair training condition, 
Coach Dr. Marks and Acting Grad
uate Manager, Irwin, are giving short 
scrimmages in order to test for headwork as well as physical agility.
Since spring practice will continue 
only until May 1, or possibly one 
week longer, the work has grown a 
bit more intense and by the time it 
comes to a close the several posi
tions that would have been weak next 
fall, will be noticeably strengthened 
through the appearance of material 
that will not need so much of tho fun
damental tactics.
Carnegie Rifle Tournament 
Open to All Students
Tho Carnegie Tech Rifle Club will 
hold its annual rifle tournament dur
ing the week ending May 5th. Tho 
tourment is open to any registered 
student at Carnegie Tech, member or 
non-member of the. club. A gold and 
a silver medal will bo awarded to the 
highest shooting individuals in tho 
prone position, and also a gold and 
silver modal will ..bo given to tho two 
highest scores in the standing posi
tion.
Tho tradition behind the annual 
tournament is to keep alive tho spirit 
in rifle Shooting as a sport. Tho sport 
is becoming more and more popular 
and being recognized ns a minor sport 
in a majority of colleges in tho United 
States and England. Carnoglo Tech 
will eventually recognize rifle shoot
ing as a minor sport, judging fromits reception with greater onthuslasm 
from year to year.
Tho Carnegie Tech Rlflo team lost 
to tho Massachusetts Institute or 
Technology Rlflo team in a prone 
match. Tho match resulted In a scoro 
of 408 for M. I. T. and 401 for Car
negie. This match was shot off dur
ing the first wook following tho Eastor vacation whon most of tho in on 
were out of practico and accounts for 
tho poor score of 401. Tho team 
showed up much better during tho 
following week against Lehigh Uni
versity also In a prono match. Tho 
Lehigh scoro is not available at this 
time.
Tho Carnoglo Toch lineup of men 
who counted In tho M. I. T. match 
follow.
Darnall .................................. 100
Hauser ................................. 00
Hantill .................................... 08
Vana ...................................... 08
Swanson ............................... 0(!
N. Thompson ...................... 06
POVERTY DAY MAY
RECEIVE ANOTHER TRIAL
(Continued from Page One} 
Director of the College of Industries; 
C. B Connelley, Director of Industrial j 
Relations ; N. J. McAloney, of the |
Pittsburgh Railways Company, and ; 
fourth year student in the night i 
classes; R. S. Wilson, Manager of! 
Works, Westinghouse Electric and j 
Mfg. Co.; O. Buys, Superintendent of: 
Laboratory, Duuesne Light Company; j 
H. C. HobaTt, U. S. Bureau of Mines; 
A. Jones, Chief Electrician, Eliza Furj 
naces, Jones and Laughlin Company; 
T. E. Metcalf, Metcalf Electric Com
pany; R. M. Rumble, General Mana
ger, Service Department, WesLinghouse Electric and Mfg. Company; 
P. D. Sculley, Assistant Superinten
dent of the Electrical Department, Mc
Keesport Works, National Tube Com
pany; C. J. Garrigan, Chief Electri
cian, Pittsburgh Rolls Corp., and II. 
A. Calderwood former head of the de
partment of Electrical Equipment and 
Construction, and now with the W. H. 
Ochiltree Electric Company.
Following the meeting, the employ
ers were invited to be the guests of 
the Institute in making a tour of the 
buildings.
You tell em, Caesar, you got thir
ty-two cuts before you were busted. 
Cento.
As a result of a meeting of golf 
enthusiasts of Carnegie Tech, the half 
dozen students present decided to or
ganize an unofficial golf teamthe 
first requisite being the receipt of a 
Schenley Park course permit, which 
may be secured anytime at the office 
in Phipps Conservatory, near tile Li
brary entrance to the park.
This permit is good for the entire 
playing season and the benefits which 
a person derives from its use is 
worth much more than the three dol 
lars which he pays for it.
The Schenley course will be open 
to the public next Tuesday,  May 1, 
and any student presenting a permit 
to. either of the promoting managers 
Jack Ferguson or T. Barry Gotham, 
will he considered as eligible candi
date for the proposed golf team.
Interested students in order to lose 
no time will please put their names 
and addresses in an envelope and ad
dress the same to either of the above 
acting-managers. Tartan Box, before 
May 1.
MOTHER WAS YOUNG ONCE
Mother, may I go out to swim?
Yes, my darling daughter.
She knew that a girl with such a limb,
Wouldn't go near the water.
Cento.
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
promptly at 12:30 will bo tlio parade 
of the Plebes from all four schools 
from in front of the Arts Building and 
loading around the campus. The win
ners from the various schools will 
head the parade. After the parade 
pictures will be taken of the winners 
and of the other less successful 
Plebes.
Plebes are not to wear their cos^ 
tumes to any classes so it has been 
suggested that they bring their cos
tumes with, them in the morning and 
make the change in the school club 
rooms or locker rooms.
The future name of Poverty Day 
Celebration has not, as yet, been de
cided upon. Much criticism of the 
name Poverty Day has arisen from 
the fact that, to the outsider, the 
I name does not signify what the celeI bration really isa Plebe event en
tirely.. For this reason the Council 
j Committee has recommended the 
change to a name which will better 
| fit the event.
| Final plans and the future name will 
I be brought up for discussion and 
passed upon at the next meeting of 
Council tomorrow night following fa
vorable action by the Executive Comj niittee. The approved rules and reg
ulations wijl then be posted on the 
bulletin boards as soon as they are 
released by the printer.
Carnegie Net Men
Coach Garland Still LookingFor New Material
To those who wore acquainted with 
the training conditions of Carnegie 
Tech tennis team, tho tie score of the 
dual match with University of West 
Virginia at Morgantown last Saturday, 
was no great surprise. Neither tho 
coach for the Tartans nor the play
ers anticipated a walk away against 
li team that had been practicing intaot for several months, and with that 
in mind, the five men and the man
ager of the Carnegie team ventured 
west for the first match on the sched
ule of seventeen.
For an opponent to tie the scoro in 
the initial match was probably the 
best thing that could have happened 
to ilio Plaid racquet wielders. Since 
the match was not lost, it does no 
harm to look upon its result in such 
an optimistic mannGr. Carnegie holds 
sufficient prestige in tennis to give 
each succeeding team an added 
amount of encouragement toward up
holding the title of tri-state cham
pions, which tho teams arid coach for 
tho three preceding years made pos
sible.
Coach Chuck GarlancH selected a 
temporary varsity team from those 
men who wore on last years lineup 
plus those in whom he saw the best 
form displayed while he was either a 
witness to tlieii* playing or else in ac
tion with tho probable candlatos. 
Even though tho first selection did 
work well together, that is no indica
tion of tho pormanoncy of these fivo 
men on tho varsity. While the team 
was engaged at Morgantown against: 
the Mountaineers, their conch, purposoly remained at homo to look over 
tho material that had been called out 
for tryouts. Some of the candidates, 
who were playing on tho courts last 
Saturday, were not aware of the fact 
that Coach Garland was giving them 
the once over as they continued with 
their practico and pleasure.
A series of matches bolng played 
this wook, wore arranged by the 
coach, who desires to let this method 
automatically eliminate a large num
ber, so that ho will havo a working 
squad of about twelvo, from which 
other men may bo drawn tc5 tho var
sity, as tho season progrossos.
Quito unexpootod was tho defeat of 
Captain Schwartz of tho Plaid notmen, in thoir opening contost, hut 
Connie wont lot tho loss of a hard 
fought match, won by West Virginias 
boat, interrer with future matches. 
The following scores toll tho talo:
William Stool, W. Va., defeated 
Capt. Schwartz, C. I. T. 8-0, 0-0, 7-5.
D. I-I. .Tones, W. Va., dofoated R. D. 
Homiour, C. I T., 0*8; 6-4.
J. T. OConnor, C. T. T., dofoatod 
Capt. R. J. Ttlloy, W. Va., 0-1, 0-2.
J. J. Kell, C. 1. T.. dofoatod 15. C. 
Coman, W. Va., 0-2, 7-5.
Stool and .Tones, W. Va., defeated 
Capt. Schwartz and Housour, C. I. T., 
2-0, 11.9, 7-5.
O'Connor and W. Kornory, C. T. 'I'., 
dofoatod Capt. Riley and Coffman, W. 
Va., 0-8, 4-0, 0-7.
Tho next match will bo staged on 
tho homo courts against Waah-Joff, 
this coming Saturday, April 28, at 2:30 
oclock.
TRACK TEAM GOES 
TO PENN TOMORROW
ARE YOU 9UPER8TITIOUS7
The modern girl's education is considorod finished when she can rosist 
a kiss, just long enough not to miss 
it.Black and Blue,
Students not equipped with a leath
er brief caou, a good fountain pen, 
Evcraharp Pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of "Tech jewelry 
should visit the Slnqer Pen & Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
SheDont you lovo driving?
HeYes, but we're in town now. 
Cento.
From the diary of a debutante: 
February 30I've decided not to 
marry, and I am going to bring up 
my children to do the same.Cento.
First drunkShay, dya know John
nie Jones?
Second Drunk-No, whash his 
name?
First Drunk-Who?
Second DrunkI dunno.Tulane 
Hullabaloo.
{ CONFUSION CAUSES
NOMINATION DELAY
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
fit, W. Wilson, .1. J. Murray, I-. W. 
Cook, E. West, Wendlondt, C. O. 
Bender, Donohue.
Secretary: E. R. Wilson, J. A. C. 
Foil or, D. A. Powrle, Chase, John 
iMcCreadio, A. C. Patterson,
Treasurer: H. Strong, J. M. O'Con
nor, P. Bowron, H. C. Armstrong, .1. 
L. Seaman, P. E. Henderson.
Senate: L. E. Krabs, P. E. Meyer, 
P. Bowron, Don Milne, C. E. West, J.
I T. O'Connor, J. A. Cook, J. C. Coch
ran, J. D. Graeff.
Thistle: G. E Jacoby, P. Bowron,
j P. Eoyd, II. Reiter, H. Strong, F.
Loveland.
The date of election has not yet 
been decided.
% 
M 
5
5
Vi
I
FOUR-POV/ER 
TREATY
T/ie Most lmlxntant Treaty 
ever negotiated by the 
United States
Copien now being dwtributcd 
exclusively byby the
Life Insurance Company*^---*
Slxfj-onc Ycars in Business. Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
For free copies apply to any 
agent or to the home office of 
the Company, 197 Clarendon 
Street, Boston, Massachusetts
Entered in Technical College 
Championship 
Class
With only three more days to get 
in shape for tho Drake and Penn Re
lays, the track men under Coach Beel
er are getting down to hard work. 
Carnegie has been entered in tho 
Technical Collogo championship class 
at the Pena Carnival and may bring 
back some of the proverbial bacon, as 
well as a lot ol glory. Last year, 
the Plaid runners copped tho relay 
championship of the Technical 
Schools and should have at least* a 
taste of the same stuff this year.
Beeler started the week right by 
calling a meeting of all track aspi
rants in the Varsity Clan clubroom 
last Monday afternoon. At this gath
ering he stressed the value and ne
cessity of rigid training regulations. 
1-Ie showed his determination to turn 
out a winning team by promising to 
relieve men who did not live up to 
common sense training rules of their 
uniforms. Coach Beeler expressed 
his determination to give every man 
an equal chance to make good. I 
have never turned out a losing team 
and I dont intend to begin to do so 
now," ho said.
Since this meeting, there has been 
a noticeable heightening of the mo-: 
rale of tho squad, and an increase in 
tho seriousness of purpose of the ath
letes. Beeler lias been holding try
outs for the team to compote in the 
Penn Relays. For the past two weeks 
various mon have boen put through 
tholr pacos and several have shown 
marked ability. Captain Brumbaugh 
and Dummy SV.old have been covering 
tho ground with much speed. Dum
my is probably due for Ills greatost 
year yet. Ho is strong and fast and 
has been working steadily since tho 
first Indoor workouts.
Szold Is one of tho fastest mon on 
the squad, and will probably be usod 
In tho 220 and quarter mile this sonson. Gale Is also beginning to got 
In sljapo and will make a strong bid 
for a berth on tho relay quartet. 
Among tho other mon who are striv
ing for tho remaining position ar 
lvramor, Ferrall, Coopor, Bohn, and 
White. Tho team Is leaving tomor
row night for I'hlladephia, where they 
will stop at tho Hotel Normandie.
It Is practically assured that Pitt
man and Robertson will journey to 
Dos Molnofj to compete In 1 lio gamos 
hold under tho auspices of Druko Col
logo. These two men are both versa
tile athletes and are to compete la 
the broad Jump, In which both are K2. 
poclully strong. Both men do around 
HU foot consistently, and are expected 
to place In tholr event, Sovoral oth
ers are making long lapt) and giving 
tho stars a lot el' hot competition. 
Bohn, formerly of Avalon Nigh, is 
good, as well as Bastan, who also 
throws the javolln well.
Tlio rest of the squad Is getting la 
shape for tho find: dual moot, which 
takes place May 5, against Penn State, 
at the hitter's Hold. Tho Blue and 
White has alroady mot and vanquish
ed the speedsters of tho University 
of Virginia by Improsslvo perform
ances both In tho field and on tho 
track But Coach Beeler Is quite om<- 
pliatic in declaring that wo are not 
going to Stato to make a good show
ing: wo aro going thoro to win. It, is 
Beelers ambition to havo his track 
team tlio first to boat Penn Stato at 
a major sport.
The weight events are giving Coach 
Beeler and Captain Brumbaugh tho 
greatest amount of anxiety. This de
partment ha* never balanced the rec
ord of the track athletes and evory 
offort is being made to bolster up tho 
strength of tho Plaid in the field.
Schillinger, Comfort, Eaton, Landis, 
Thompson, Sprinkle, Middleton, Good* 
win and Yoder are making progress 
with the shot, discus and hammer. 
In the high jump, Yuty, formerly of 
Allegheny High, has been reaching 
some high altitudes. The pole vault 
is perhaps the weakest event. Midge 
Matter is the only veteran to try out 
for the vault. Several Freshmen 
have been practicing daily and may 
show up well. These men are Hen
derson, Harris and Seaman.
The worst setback the team, has had 
was the declaring of Lockwood in
eligible on account of scholastic dif
ficulties. He was looked on as tho 
backbone of the sprinting department, 
and' was practically sura of a place on 
the relay team. In addition he was 
a veteran high jumper, and was count
ed upon to materially increase the 
scoring ability of the Skibo outfit.
Davies & Hughes
Oaklan'3 Mens Store
HATS CAPS MENS FURNISHINGS
3615 Forbco Street Next to Strnnd Theater
Open every night
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxco 
Coroagc 
Plants 
Decorationc
Tech students will find that our pricas are in keeping with the 
quality and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?

---------------------------------------------------

*AGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
Kilt Fund Spectre Bobs ALUMNI CALENDAR
UP With Earnest Plea
CLEVELAND CLAN
A very pleasant luncheon was held 
at the home of Mrs. Helen E. Waite 
on Saturday, April 14. Miss Anne S. 
Hibbs, managing editor o the Alum
nus, who was in Cleveland attending 
the convention of Alumni Magazines, 
Associated, was the guest of honor.
Those present were: Mrs. M. R.
Less, Miss Dorothy Harlow, Miss Hel
en Hester, Mrs. Martha Potter Foster, 
Miss Mildred Lawrence, Mrs. Maud 
Hainer Montgomery, Miss Helen Hollman, Miss Manilla Stoddard, Misfc 
Evelyn Pierson, Mrs. L. E. Fowler, 
Mrs. Helen E. Waite and Miss Hibbs.
Plans have been started to hold a 
benefit bridge party in the near fu
ture.
Few Alumni Contributions 
During Past Month
PITTSBURGH CLAN
Yes, .we're in again, and we expect 
to bob up from time to time until the 
Kilt Fund goal is reached. Atr the 
present rate at which the Alumni are 
advancing the cause, we shall never 
get there. Something has to be done, 
and done soon.
Those who have contributed since 
March 17th are: J. W. Waxman, A.
L. Moiley, A. Lyle Linderman, E. M. 
Gnflitns. Morris E. Chapman, C. H. 
Wallace.
Whos next? Step light up.
Officers for next year will be nomi
nated at the meeting next Saturday 
of the Pittsburgh Clan, of the Car
negie Tech Alumni Association, to be 
held at 1 p. m. in the Fort Pitt Hotel. 
Other features of the program will 
be a talk by Dr. C. B. Connelly, for
mer State Commissioner of Labor and 
Industry, and who has returned to 
Tech as Director of Industrial Rela
tions; discussion of the athletic sit
uation at*tlie Institute; and formulat
ing of plans for Campus Week, sched
uled for May 24th to 2G.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
About twenty-five members of the 
Girls Youngstown Clan wore delight
fully entertained at the Brittany Inn 
Studio, Saturday, April 14, from twothirty to. five oclock p. m. The com
mittee in charge included Miss Lois 
Hawley, Miss Helen Hewitt, Miss 
Edna Logan, Miss Alberta Lomax, and 
Miss Margaret Baxter. Miss Mary 
Brown, Dean of Women at Carnegie 
Tech, gave amost interesting talk 
on Carnegie needs. Her charming per
sonality as well as her happy choice 
of subject, won the admiration and 
stirred the loyalty of all the members.
. At the business meeting following the 
informal hour, it was voted unani
mously that sororities should be re
established at Carnegie Tech. At the 
conclusion of a very enjoyable after
noon, the committee served delicious 
refreshments. The next meeting will 
be held in Sharon, during May.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
FACULTY NEWS
Caplain Edyard Steidle, Supervi
sor of the Co-operative Mining 
Courses at Carnegie Tech, will leave 
tomorrow for Washington, D. C., 
where he will be employed for six 
weeks, on special assignment, by the 
Fact Finding Commission, recently 
appointed by President Harding to in
vestigate economic and industrial 
conditions in this country.
THURSDAY, APRIL 26 
Founder's Dajr, G. I. T.
SUNDAY, APRIL 29
RecitalDepartment of Music, C. I. T.................
SUNDAY, MAY 6 
RecitalDepartment of Music, C. I. T...........
........S :15 P. M.
........8:15 P. M.
Regulations Governing Members of R. 0. T. C.
IN THE COMMONS
"I just got hold of a tender piece 
of meat.
Impossible!
"Yes, I just bit my lip.Bear Cat.
Female: But are all men bad?
Fenine: All the good ones are.
Black and Magenta.
A rag, a bone and a hank o hair, 
Lipstick, rouge and a baby stare; 
Talk in terms of cash and kiss 
Lo! Behold! The modern miss.
Lord Jeff.
JimmieWhat did she say when 
she kissed you last night?
His FriendShe said I should come 
on Friday nights hereafter, as that 
was amateur's night.Black and Blue.
Dr. R V. Murphy of the Chemical 
Engineering Department, suffered se
vere burns about the hands and arms 
as a result of extinguishing a fire, 
which occurred in Room 30?, Science 
Building, last Thursday noon.
One of the students of the labatory 
class was pouring ether from one 
container to a smaller roceptable and 
the vapor so evolved, drifted toward 
a Bowser burner and ignited. In an 
attempt to extinguish the flames, the 
container was dropped and the flames 
soon spread to this. A fire alarm 
was sounded and the Oakland Fire 
Department i'e9ponded after the 
flames had been subdued by fire ex
tinguishers and blankets.
Many valuable instruments were 
stroyed and the estimated loss is 
three hundred dollars.
SENIOR WEEK PROGRAM
OUTLINED TENTATIVELY
Officers of the Army detailed to R. O. T. C. duty ordinarily remain on 
that duty for four years. Only exceptional circumstances cause their relief 
before expiration of detail. Every effort is made to prevent numerous 
changes in instructors.
Officers, Warrant Officers and soldiers will wear the uniform while on 
duty.
The ultimate purpose of all R. 0. T. C. work is the production of well 
instructed Junior Reserve Officers in whom self confidence and aggressive 
leadership have been developed. This is best obtained by constantly rotat
ing students in commanding and instructing their fellow students during the 
military formations.
Minimum number of hours for R. O. T. C. instruction and training is 
three hours per week in the basic course and live hours per week in the 
advanced course. An hour represents the customary fifty minutes academic 
hour.
An R. O. T. C. student who has successfully completed the basic course 
at any regularly accredited R. O. T. C. unit may be allowed credit for that 
work upon entering another institution where an R. 0. T. C. unit is main
tained.
R. O. T. C. ENROLLMENT THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES 
Beginning of School Year 1922-1923.
By Corps Areas.
Senior Enrollment
Corps Areas Basic Advanced % A.C. Junior Total
First .......................................................... 4,037 993 (24) G10 5,G40
Second ...................................................... 5,861 640 (10) 654 7,155
Third .......................................................... 5,753 1,322 (23) 1,741 S.816
Fourth ................................................... 7,083 2,004 (28) 7,334 16,421
Fifth ........................................................... 7,914 1,034 (13) 6,038 14,986
Sixth .......................................................... 5,721 1,011 (18) 6,481 13,213
Seventh .....................................................10,420 1,297 (12) 1,745 16,462
Eighth ...................................................... 3,982 709 (17) 1,879 6,570
Ninth ........................................................ 7,S61 771 ( 9) 5,678 14,310
Hawaiian Department ................................... 152 15 (10) 259 426
Totals....................................................58.7S4 9,796 (16) 35,419 103,999
21 Engineer Units ................................. 2.910 730 (25)
The basic enrollment of the 21 Engineer units was 2,910 (5% of total 
basic); their advanced enrollment, 730 (7.5% of total advanced).
The Engineer advanced enrollment was 25% of the basic.
(In last weeks article, an error Avas inadvertently made in the R. I. T. 
C. camp dates. The dates for all R. O. T. C. camps are: June 14 to July
26th.)
CONSTITUTION GIVES 
COUNCIL NEW POWERS
Combines Power and Work of the 
Student Counc'il and the Student 
Activities Board Under 
New Council.
STUDENTS TO RATIFY
(Continued From Page One.- 
services at the Carnegie Music Hall.
MondayTea dance or possible 
party.
TuesdayBoat excursion and pic
nic.
Wednesday Mens banquet.
ThursdayThoater party , in the 
Little Theater at Arts School for the 
Seniors, their I'aronts and friends.
FridayCommencement exercises at 
10 a. m. in Carnegie Music Hall.
Friday EveningThe Senior ball 
will be held in the Arts Foyer.
The committee in charge of affairs 
as follows:
I-I. J. McCormickChairman.
Clias. JeffersBanquet.
Art HedgrenBoat excursion and 
picnic.
L. R. TurcotteTickets and invita
tion.
Jack WillardTheater parly.
f\RE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
*
THE NEW HALL OF FAME
First Record by the 
Metropolitan 's 
brilliant new tenor:
GIACOMO
LAURI-V OLPI
This great new tenor, who astonished New 
York at his recent Metropolitan Opera Com
pany debut, has chosen to be recorded ex
clusively by Brunswick. His first record is 
out now:
15047 RigolettoLa donna e mobile
(Woman Is Fickle) Act III (Verdi) 
Tenor, in Italian.
RigolettoQuesta o quella
(Mid the Fair Throng) Act I, Scene 1 
(Verdi) Tenor, in Italian.
Something NEW every day 
on Brunswick Records I
nm&wick
The proposed constitution and by
laws of the Student Council as sub
mitted by the Reorganizations Com
mittee were accepted by the Student 
Activities Board and the 'Student 
Council at the joint meeting of the 
two just before vacation.
Different committees have been 
working on the plan of reorganization 
for the last three years but it re
mained for the committee appointed 
by the Student Council this year to 
put it in finished form.
A copy of the constitution and by
laws has been sent to President Baker 
and the Executive Board for approval. 
The Executive Board will act on it 
at its meeting this week. After tho 
action of the Executive Board tho con
stitution and by-laws will be taken 
before the separate student assem
blies for ratification as set forth in 
Article X of the constitution.
The constitution and by-laws as ap
proved by the Student Council and 
the ^Board of Student Activities fol
low:
CONSTITUTION OF THE
STUDENT COUNCIL
Preamlble.
Whereas, we the student body of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
believe that the student bodies of each 
of the four component colleges should 
be further united as a group of stu
dents and that affairs concerning the 
entire student body should be dealt 
with by a central organization, we do 
hereby place such matters in the 
hands of a representative body whose 
name, organization and powers are 
defined below:
Article I.Name.
Section 1. NameThe name of
this organization shall be the Student 
Council of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Article II.Representation.
Section 1. This Council shall be 
composed of twenty-two representa
tives and three-non-voting represen
tatives of the student body of the Car
negie Institute of Technology, as fol
lows: President of the Student Coun
cil, 5 representatives from the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College; 4 
representatives from the College of 
Engineering; 5 representatives from 
the College of Fine Arts; 4 represen
tatives from the College of Industries; 
1 representative from the Mens Ath
letic Association; 1 representative 
from the Womens Athletic Associa
tion; .3 non-voting assistant secreta
ries from the secretarial course of the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College; 
1 Night School representative.
(a) One candidate for the President 
of the Council for the following year 
shall be elected by the student body 
of each college not later than the 
first week of May. Only Junior stu
dents are eligible for election. The 
Student Council shall elect the presi
dent from this list of candidates by 
a majority vote of all members not 
later than tho third week in May. A 
vacancy in this office can be filled 
only by a similar election.
(b) The Margaret Morrison Car
negie College shall be represented by 
the president of the Senate, president 
of the Senior Class, a Senior repre
sentative. the treasurer of the Senate 
who shall be a Junior and who shall 
serve as a Senior representative the 
following year, the secretary of the 
Student Council, and three non-voting 
assistant secretaries.
(c) The College of Engineering 
shall be represented by the president 
of the Senate, the president of the
DRAMA GRADUATES 
ACHIEVING SUCCESS
David Mudgett and Larry 
Paguin Engaged With 
Same Company
Members of Midwest 
Club Will Take Hikes
News has just come of two . mo; e 
Carnogio Tech men who are making 
names for themsolvesDavid Mud* 
getl am; Lawrence Paquin.
Dave Mudgett is Art Director for 
the Little Playhouse Company of 
Walnut I-nils, and Paquin is Drama
tic Director in tho same organization. 
Hero is what Paul Bachelor, Ballet 
Master of the companly, says olhis 
two associates:
Davie has had a very successful 
year here, designed and executed 
thirty sets, amorg which are Romeo 
and Juliet. Momia Vanna, Seventeen, 
Le Baite au jouyoux (ballet), Land 
of Dearts Desire, Trystiug Placo, 
and others. I-IIs sets and designs 
have been the sensatiou of the large 
artistic circle here and his lighting 
of our stage, little short of marvel
ous. He was made a member of the 
MacDowell Society after only two 
months residenco in the city....
Larry Paquin is at present direct
ing A: A. Milnes Romantic Age at 
Miami and this week gives a bill of 
one act He is .lie most popular 
member of the faculty at Miami Uni
versity, and said to bo the best dra
matic director ever there. A one-aot 
play of his was recently published 
in tlio monthly literary magazine, and 
he has also been made a Phi Beta 
Kappa.
Mudgett was recently engaged to 
Stasia Nydelka, a young Russian 
lady, promise clanseuso of tho sum
mer opera in Cincinnati and formerly 
of the Pavloy-Dukransgy Ballet of the 
Chicago Opera Company.
Senior Class, a Sonlor representative 
and treasurer of the Senate, who shall 
be a member of the Junior class and 
who shall serve as a Senior represen
tative the following year.
(d) Tho College of Fine Arts shall 
be represented by the president of tho 
Senate, the president of the Senior 
class, the first vice president of the 
Senate, who shall be a girl from tho 
Senior class, a Senior representative 
and the Senate treasurer, who shall 
be a member of the Junior class and 
who shall serve as the Senior repre
sentative the following year.
(e) The College of Industries shall 
bo represented by tho president of tho 
Assembly, the president of tho Senior 
class, a Senior representative, and tho 
treasurer of the Sonato who shall bo 
a member of the Junior class and who 
shall act as the Senior representativo 
tho following year.
(f) Tho representatives from tho 
Mens and Women's Athletic Associa
tions shall be.elected from their In
dividual organizations .at the first 
meeting in the spring of tho now or
ganizations.
(g) A Night School representativo 
shall be elected at tho discretion of 
the Night School student body.
Section 3. The term of office of all 
members shall bo, unless otherwlso 
noted, from tho time of assuming of
fice in tho spring until the now Coun
cil convonos and organizes In tho fol
lowing spring. Exception to this Is 
in tho case of tho four JUnlor repre
sentatives who hold ovor as members 
durln the following year.
Section 4. In the event of a va
cancy, other than that of the office of 
president, the next ranking officer of 
that class or organization shall bocoirie a member Immediately until 
that office in which the vacancy oc
curs Is filled. Tho only exception 
shall be the Junior representatives, 
the secretary and treasurer,, whose po
sition shall be filled by another elec
tion.
Section 5. Junior Representatives, 
(a) The representatives of the Junior 
class shall be elected; from the Junior 
classes of each college, by the mem 
bera of that class. Each shall become
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
automatically tho troasuror of the 
Senate from tho college in which ho 
has boon elected, and shall act as as
sistant treasurer on tho Student 
Council during his Junior year with 
voting privileges, and shall also act 
as Sonlor roprosontatlvo during tho 
following year.
(b) Tho three assistant socrotarioa 
shall bo elected by tho Student As
sembly of the Margaret Morrison Carnogle Collogo from a list of candidates 
presented by tho Dlroctor of Marga
ret Morrison Carnoglo Collogo.
Stripes to Distinguish
Classes in R. 0. T. C.
In order to distinguish Sophomoros, 
Juniors and Seniors from tho Freshinen at. drill, tho R. O. T. C. has lasuod tho sorvlco stripes. Tho proaonco of ono gold strlpo on tho sloovo 
under tho Insignia signifies that tho 
woaror Is a Sophomoro. Tho pres
ence of two, moans that a Junior Is
In tho uniform, and a Senior woars 
threo stripes. Theforlorn FroshMan 
wears none at all. rr any member lias 
attended a camp, a blue strlpo is is
sued, to bo worn In front as tlio insig
nia, and if two camps wore attondod 
the stripos, two In nitmbor, aro worn 
ono In front of tlio Insignia and ono 
to tho roar of 10,
Steak Dinner to Feature First 
of Series, Next Saturday
Saturday next, April 28, at 2:30 p. 
m., the Mid-West Club will gather for 
the first hike of tiie soason.
The hikes will meet in the Admin
istration Building from where they 
will leave to take a short ride until 
the city is left behind, and then 
walk to a secluded spot by the bond 
of a creek, near two old stone 
bridges, where tho smoke and soot ol 
Pittsburgh will be lost to view and 
books will be forgotten.
SulTicdent food is being prepared 
and a real stealc supper will be the 
final windup before tho return to tho 
campus at dusk.
This hike will ho the first of a 
series Of hikes to bo conducted by 
the club, and all student members 
desiring to make tho trip are asked 
to leave their names with Miss Rico 
of M. M. C. C., Miss Allen of Arts, 
Leo Hertzmaui of Industries or Andy 
Olson of McGill Hall.
Final approval of Mid-West insignia 
has been inado arid tho first ship
ment will bo made shortly. These 
insignias will make it easier lo recog
nize tho student from the plains.
Time for hike is 2:30, next Satur
day, meet in Lower 1-Iall of Adminis
tration Building.
MANY PEOPLE SEE
ANNUAL EXHIBITION
(Contlnuod1 From Page One) 
paratlvolyi few students, was open, 
and machinerysave the electric fur 
miceof the mining and metallurgi
cal laboratories, was In operation. 
Tho electric furnace could not be 
used 'because there was not suf
ficient current available, duo to so. 
much being required for light.
Tho demonstration attracting tho 
largest number of peoplo, and caus
ing tho greatest Interest, perhaps, was 
that of tho ono million volt Tosla 
coll loaned by an Alumnus in Ma
chinery 1-Iall With I ho room dark
ened, tho miniature lightning flashing 
about the top of tho aparatua made 
a wonderful display. Nearly all of 
tho machinery in tho elootrlcal and 
mochanlcal laboratories was running, 
Including tho largo WoBtlnghouso gas 
onglno In tho power plant.
In tho College of Induafrloa thoro 
wore claaaoa In moat of tho shops. A 
number of castings were poured from 
Iron molted In tho cupola furnace of 
tho foundry. Work waa being turned 
out on tho various planers, Inthoa, 
gear outiers, shapora and boring 
in Ilia of tho machine shop, and there 
was am exhibition of olaborato and1 
rare books In tho Fine Printing La
boratory.
HMAN HARNETS: 
Ttctde Stronger  Last Longer
Lonjxor worntrimrimtood. Thoro In 
ii stylo and color to uutt your imrtluulnr .9A,DCX5
Duro Kollo hnlr not embody ]x)ricot umtorlul, \x!rfoot. worknmmihln, 
und jHirfoot inspooMim. Tlmt in 
your KUimmtco.
If you npitruoiuto hliir not tlmt 
wo nr loturor and nlvvnya look woll, 
you will demand Dnro 
Hollo. Como in all 
Btyloa and colors. Full 
tdco. Just try a fow 
and boo.
'Buy them by the.
Dpjcn-*
In tho gloaming, oh, my darling, 
When the lights are dim and low, 
That your face Is powder and painted 
How am I awoetlheart, to know? 
Twice this month I'vo had to bundleEvery coat that I possess 
To tho Cleanerswont you darling,. 
Love mo more1 and powdor lesa?
Selected.
First BumWhy is a hen Immortal? 
SecondI d\mno.
FiratBecause her son never sets,. 
Purple and! White.
AXRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, F,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Norfolk 
Downs, Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G-. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street. 
CE3CAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street. 
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
"Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
; DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 "West Riverview Avenue, 
j DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
I ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street. 
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street, 
j HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn. 
j HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 308 Second St., E. 
j JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wal/ice, 641 Horner St.
| LOS ANGELESSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
j MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Waslmigton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa. 
j NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shcnango St. 
NEW YORICSecretary, E. M. Gretzler, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, New York.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, fill Raleigh Avenue. 
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, GOO Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
| SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St 
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 19-16 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary. FI W Haller. 1103 Munsey Bldg 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Blvd. 
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan aeeretary, LCXX Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue 
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
LADY PLEBES HAVE
HORRID FIGHT. SI8TER
SOPHS ARE SOFT, ALRIGHT
(Contlnuorli From Page Ono) 
followed another, until suddenly tho 
louder Floaalo lot loorio a load with 
hoi" right to Winnie's jaw! Dour, 
tender; Itlhd little IC13XC1t
Flying Fur.
Wlnnlo, not to bo outdono, sidetopped swiftly, and poked Floau neat
ly In the noao. Floaalo blocked, and 
countered with her loft. Wlnnlo 
landed a neat right to tho cheat, but 
In doing ao swallowed her gum; Floaa 
closed' with her adversary, and bit a 
neat chunk off tho loft ear, whore,, 
unfortunately, it didnt allow. Win
nie bit. Flo sale bit back. Then Wln
nlo bit again? Floaslo roblt and robit, 
although her jawbono was weakening 
perceptibly under tho attack. Win
nie kicked Floss and Floaa kicked 
Win. Then both kicked simultaneous
ly. It was a glorious exhibition, gen
tlemen 1 Pteoplo on Squirrel Hill be
gan to wonder If they had moved1 the 
ZVjO.
Man the Machine Guns.
By tills: tfme both girls werebegin
ning to getangry. Flosss hairnet 
that she had been saving for Saturday 
night waa ruined, and Winnie'S Archi
tect was bordering on nervous pros
tration. It was high time to call the 
police or board of cenaors.
Fortunately, the girls of their re
spective classes, attracted: by the un
couth noises, came en masse to the 
rescue of each. Lady Plebes met Lady 
Sophs with shrieks of defiance, and 
before a minute was up by an in
structors watch you could have gath
ered up enough hairpins to fill a bush
el basket with the bottom out.
Space permits me to go no further 
with the painful details. But if this 
be the gentler sex, lead me to the 
wolves and the elephants. Now we 
understand how Daniel managed to do 
so well with a few hungry lions; li-a 
must have been a Mormon!
Your spring requirements 
should be selected with the 
greatest care. Your comfort de
pends entirely upon the class of 
merchandise you buy, and If 
your ability to judge the proper 
wearing apparel for both style 
and fit Is not correct, then con
sult a good haberdasher. Make 
known your requirements, and 
he will assist you to your ut
most satisfaction.
Wo havo had forty-one years 
of experience in this line, all 
successful years, due to tho fact 
we handle the best that money 
can buy. Only that high stand
ard quality of merchandise that 
gives prominence to its wearer 
and the happy smile of satisfac
tion, knowing ho has purchased 
the bost .In leading styles and 
fit at a moderate price.
Wo have Instructed our 'sales
men accordingly and you will 
find wo are ever striving to our 
utmost to give you the benefit 
of these fruitful years of experi
ence by standing back of every 
dollars worth of goods we sell 
with a guarantee to replace all 
that has proven tho least bit un
satisfactory.
C. A. Heimert
Ever foremost in new 
ideas
3614 FORBES ST. 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
Standard Quality Since 1882:
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital...........................IJ1200,000.00
SurpliiH and Umllvldod
Protltn........................$300,000.00
Depoaltu, Ovor - - - P4,000i000i00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
igmmmmmmmmmmmtmmuttt
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now locateci at 
4531 FORBES ST.
Compliments = 
of 
Skibo Inn 1
1
After Every Meal
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Customer : How do you sell, this
cheese?
Grocer; Ivo wondered myaelf, 
lady.Bear Cat.
CAMPUS WEEK 
IS
COMING!
MAY
24, 25, 26
wram
Chew your Sood well, then use 
WRIGLEYS to aid digestion.
It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite been.
The Great American 
Swaotmaat
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
0200010000000001010200010001
