38 Senators 
Elected; Easy 
To Vote Twice
by Debbie Siegel
Students cast 536 ballots in last weeks 
Student Government Elections, a more or 
less average turnout. But voter interest was 
higher than in recent elections; many 
candidates got from 30 to 70 votes.
It was easy for a voter to cast more than 
one ballot, however, because safeguards 
> used in previous elections were abandoned.
A TARTAN reporter managed to vote 
four times without difficulty. Only two 
poll attendants marked the back of his ID 
card with black felt-tipped pen, and both 
marks were easily removed with a pencil 
eraser. None of the attendants checked to 
see that his signature on the registration list 
matched the name on his ID.
The reporter voted twice in the MDC 
constituency, once as a Commuter, and 
once as a Graduate. A companion managed 
to vote in the Womens Dormitory con
stituency even though he is male.
Twenty-nine nominees ran for a total of 
38 seats. This necessitated a number of 
write-ins. Stanley Nye under UFO ran a 
strong write-in campaign and received 34 
votes. But this wasnt enough to beat the 
incumbents, Frank Sacco and Dave 
Meixner.
The least competition was evident 
continued on page 5
Five Psych Profs To Leave
by Stephen Saunders
Five Psychology Department faculty, 
including a 1970 winner of the Ryan 
Award for excellence in teaching, will 
probably be fired because the Psychology 
Department recommended that they be 
denied promotions.
These are great guys, but times are 
tough all over, says Psychology Depart
ment head Lee Gregg. No decisions are 
easy decisions.
Another source gave a different analysis. 
Around here, undergraduate education is 
not thought of as a goal, but as a necessary 
evil..
The five teachers are James Korn, Joel 
Goldstein, William Leaf, Allan Weinstein, 
and Rosie Pinkus. All but Pinkus are a 
single promotion short of gaining tenure. 
Thus they must either win promotions or 
leave C-MU. A sixth, John Hayes, has 
tenure but probably will be denied 
promotion.
All university departmental recommend
ations are given to the departments dean,
Associate Professor James Korn.
passed on to a provost, and then face a 
final review committee. Dr. Gregg said that 
he knows of two times when depart
mental recommendations have been over
ruled, but admitted that this was the 
exception rather than the rule. The final 
decision should be known by Christmas, he
Photos by Bruce Edelston 
Associate Professor John Hayes.
said.
The six faculty involved all have a
reputation for concern with undergraduate
education. James Korn, besides being a
Ryan Award winner, has served as head of
the undergraduate program in Psychology.contmuea on page.g
tartanNovember 20, 1973 Volume 74 Number 10
Flinn House To Be Sold
Scaife , Hunt Kill Rehab Plans
by Rob Simbeck
C-MUs Flinn House, the planned 
location for an aborted womens rehab* ilitation center, is about to be sold for a 
sum reported to be in excess of $150,000. 
The buyer intends to convert it into 
apartments.
Plans for the rehabilitation center were 
abandoned last September after neighbors 
put pressure on the university trustees.
It now appears that much of that 
pressure was channeled through Richard M.
* Scaife and Alfred Hunt, members of two 
families that have made prominent 
donations to the university.
It isnt necessarily because they made 
gifts to the University that we listen to 
what they say, but we have to live in the 
real world. We need six or seven million 
dollars in gifts every year to get by, says 
John G. Johnson, C-MU Vice President for
1 Development, of the people who convinced 
the trustees to kill the project.
C-MU President Richard Cyert explains 
that he did not fear that money would be 
taken away in big amounts if the project 
werent abandoned, but that future con
tributions would dry up.
Soon after the news of the planned 
Center was made public, Hunt placed a call
* to C-MU Vice President Edward Schatz.
He [Hunt] did call me, andhe was 
concerned about the zoning. He made it 
clear that there would be an attempt to 
block the program, says Vice President
for Academic Affairs Edward R. Schatz. 
Schatz lives next door to Hunt.
I was doing my job as an officer of the 
[ More wood-Sha dy si de Citizens] 
Association, Hunt told the TARTAN. In 
this area we just irrevocably oppose zoning 
changes. Once you get various uses 
apartment house, funeral homes, 
commercial establishmentsother than 
single family dwellings, the neighborhood 
begins to deteriorate.
Pressure also came from Scaife, who is 
chairman of the board of directors of the 
Mellon Bank (which handles C-MU 
investments and loans) and a trustee of the 
Sarah Mellon Scaife Foundation (which is 
largely responsible for Warner and Scaife 
Halls).
He carries weight with people who 
worry about the good of the university as 
far as funds [are concerned]says Cyert 
with regard to Scaife.
Hes way to the right of anyone youve 
seen, says another source.
Put yourself in the position of our 
Trustees. Over the last four years theyve 
been through a lot concerning our budget, 
Johnson explains, referring in part to a 
large loss of funds the University suffered 
when a number of C-MU faculty and 
students directed their Gulf Kills protest 
directly at the Richard King Mellon family. 
At that time, Richard Scaife and Richard 
Mellon (Richard King Mellons son) both 
resigned from the C-MU Board of Trustees, 
and the University quickly lost a great deal
of family funding. Those unhappy days 
have to be hanging in the backdrop 
somewhere, added Johnson.
When asked if any other protest came 
from sources equally close to the Uni
versity financially, Johnson said, I cant 
think of anybody else who talked to us 
whose families have been historically as 
generous as theirs.
Citizens Association Nebulous
The Mo rewood-Shady side Citizens 
Association, credited with leading 
neighborhood opposition, is described by 
several sources as a vague and changing 
group.
Its not an organization per se. Its 
primarily a group of people, and its not 
always the same group, who are concerned 
with maintaining the areas zoning 
standards, says Schatz.
The people making statements like 
People will come to the (zoning) hearing 
by the busload were members of the 
Association, but they werent speaking as 
the result of a meeting. I understand that 
the organization is veiy disorganized, and 
that it sprouts whenever little crises arise, 
says Margaret Cyert, wife of the president, 
who has been involved with the planning 
since it began.
Johnson commented that C-MU has 
benefited from the Associations 
traditional opposition to zoning changes:
continued on page 8
hoto by E. Popowitz
Dr. Ronald Rutledge: Pinball attracts 
undesirables.
Pinball Panic
by Tom Kendig
Paralleling a decision made last year, the 
division of Operations has once again had 
the pinball machines removed from the 
entrance of the Tartan grill.
On Thursday afternoon, November 1, 
Rita Cohen, director of Food Service, gave 
Mr. Robert McCurdy, director of Student 
Activities, a joint order from Dr. Rutledge 
and herslef to have the machines removed 
from the Grill by the next day. Mrs. Cohen 
felt that the machines were attracting 
undesirable elements and thus might be 
resulting in unnecessary trouble.
Mr. McCurdy and Ira Picker, head of theAB, had had them installed both as a 
Senefit to the students and as a money 
naking operation. Mrs. Cohen originally 
continued on page^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
EDITORS NOTE
THE LAST DAYS OF THE 'if
H&SS is not dead. . . yet.
But there is an undercurrent that slowly draws the life from it.
The general trend in the direction of education at C-MU is obvious. 
To reiterate the well-worn phrase, we are a professionally oriented 
institution; as such we should be directing our efforts towards certain 
desired levels of professionalism.
We are, doubt it not.
The question the administration then asks is, "What can H&SS do 
better than any other liberal arts college?" If we cant answer that then 
H&SS has lost its suitability as a part of a university that sets eminence as 
its objective. Recognizing that fact, H&SS has reluctantly been progressing 
(?), with administrative blessings, towards an emphasis on 5.5. 
(psychology and social relations) and a de-emphasis on the humanities.
There can be no argument with this shift. / wish there were. One of 
the few alternatives left for the private university is specialization.
The problem arises in the way that is accomplished.
Alright so no ones willing to directly boot out H&SS. In a sophis
ticated and intellectual atmosphere such matters are done more subtlely 
and always within policy limits. But it doesnt take much to see where the 
College of H&SS is headed and it takes even less to recognize that theres a 
conscious effort to keep this shift in direction at a low key.
For one thing H&SS is no longer the innovative college (was it ever) 
that attracted so many five years ago. Yet it will not of its own will 
shatter that false image which still lures some students. For another thing, 
unique programs are squelched right and left: remember the freshman 
seminars? the meta-curriculum? and the free seminars now thriving at 
Sarah Lawrence? what about the film arts program initiated last year?
Since the move is towards professionalism lets get it out in the open. 
There is no dearer indication of this shift than in the teaming, under the 
new provost system, of H&SS with SUPA and GSIA.
There is no administrative commitment to H&SS. The creative 
writing option, a major, has only two full time faculty, neither of which 
are tenured. And the university has stalled from hiring a promised 
instructor of Gladys Schmidts stature for two years. Without that 
commitment the humanities departments hands are bound.
The inevitable is happeningthe days of the liberal arts major here 
are ending. But why the cover-up? H&SS is heading once again towards its 
pre-"experimental college" days when its purpose was to round out the 
education of the Universitys technical and scientific people. It was known 
at that time as a technical institute.
What we need is honesty. Rather than dodging financial 
commitmentdeclare there will be none; rather than allow illusions to be 
harbored from within and without H&SS-afford us none. At least the 
tangible grounds keep us from fighting windmills.
Christine Infante 
Editor in Chief
Letters:
r t :
Rat (A) nibbles through string which releases cart (B), allowing it to roll 
down inclined plane (C). String pulls top of toot (D) which naturally pulls 
bottom of foot (E), which then pulls pin (F) allowing chair to be sprung 
forward by spring (G). As man reels forward, shackle and chain (H) pull 
on arm (I) which releases plate (J), allowing bomb to fall on mans back;
thus obliterating him instantly.
Editor:
I consider it my responsibility to inform 
the campus of the discrepancies in your 
editorial concerning Activities Board 
concerts and the type of Activities Board 
programming that has been conducted this 
past semester. Your editorial implied that 
the Activities Board has aimed its concert 
programming towards a high school 
audience and that Frank Zappa was such a 
concert. Possibly a few figures will clear up 
this obvious misconception on your part.
Over 80% of the people who attended the 
Frank Zappa concert had bought their 
tickets with a college ID. Over 80% of the 
newspaper advertising for the concert was 
through publications that are exclusively 
for the Pittsburgh campus communities 
(Tartan, Pitt News, the New Sun). All of 
the radio stations that were utilized for 
advertising have programming that is aimed 
at the mature college audience (WYDD, 
WDVE, WZUM). It is not coincidental that 
these three stations are the only ones that 
have ever played any of Frank Zappas 
music. One could hardly construe that this 
type of advertising was aimed at the high 
school community.
Yet this does not deny that there were 
problems at the concert concerning the
high school students that did attend. This 
is only one of many recent incidents that 
have occured on this campus in the past 
month that have been attributed to non
college students. The problems that have 
occured during concerts are merely an in^ 
dication of a generally promiscuous 
attitude toward non-campus students who 
are on campus. Not only are there a lack of 
restrictions for non-college students on this 
campus, but the security force seems to 
lack the size to cope with the problems 
that are caused by this. It is in this area 
where the answers to these problems 
should be sought. Although I appreciate 
any suggestions concerning concerts on this 
campus, I would hope in the future that I 
would be contacted before any definite 
opinions have been made and articles 
written.
Richard Wertheimer 
Activities Board 
Concert Chairman
Editor: ^
Lately there have been many incidents 
of violence occuring on campus, particu
larly in Skibo - most recently at the dance 
that the AB produced on Nov. 9. Many of 
you may have been there.
We are referring to a lot of fighting that 
has been going on. At least four times in
continued on page 7^|
tartan
Editor in Chief
Christine Infante
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
News Editor . . 
Features Editor 
Head Reporter
. . Steve Correli 
. Shelley Burhans 
. . Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff . Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
Stephen Saunders, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Ron Smith 
Kate Stainton, Kevin Turcotte 
LoisWholey, Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John Rose 
Frederick Shamlian, John Shettel 
Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith 
Frank Stein, Ric Werme
Business Manager
Dwayne Smalls
Entertainment Editor . . Susan N. Klein 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood
Mark Evan Chimsky, Craig Collins 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Hank Levy, Sharon Neustem 
Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt 
Doug Stone, Debbie Weiss
George Bias
Sports Editor ....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff....................Glenn Campbell
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Layout Staff.........................Anne Golden
. . . .Cathy Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists .........................Ron Wiggins
.............................................Kitty Fischer
Copy Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
The Editorial Board, of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the studem 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

MEWS COMMENT
9
THE TARTANTuesday; N0yemberf2O, rt973Page 3
ANSWERABILITY
In setting and carrying out of University policies, it is important for 
administrative officers to maintain a dose exchange of views with faculty 
and students, both individually and through the formally constituted 
committees and councils of the University."
The above quote from the 1973-74 Student Handbook reiterates an 
important ideal of American Democracythat public officials should be 
answerable to their constituency for their actions. In spite of this state
ment of policy, recent developments within the structure of CarnegieMellon University have established a serious bureaucratic blockade 
dividing the students from the policy makers.
Ronald Rutledge, Chief Officer of the Division of Operationswhich 
includes the bookstore, computation center, education and research 
services, food service, housing, mail service, office service, purchasing and 
general stores, security services, teaching aids center, and telephone 
serviceshas recently issued two directives which remind one of Richard 
Nixons cloak and dagger administration.
First, Rutledge has issued a directive, which no student organization 
has seen, that no one connected with the Division of Operations (that is, 
all non-academic departments except the Division of Student Affairs) 
should make direct contact with any student organization. If student 
organizations have complaints they should refer them to Student A ffairs. 
If they want to talk to the administrators directly they must request this 
by giving a list of their precise reasons to the Division of Student Affairs. 
Instead of a member of Security, Housing, and Food Service appearing at 
each meeting of Mens Dorm council, as was the case, the Council must 
now request their appearance.
Second, Rutledge wants all interview appointments with the 
TARTAN to be directed through the Department of Public Relations. He 
wants Public Relations to arrange for and attend all interviews with 
anyone in the Department of Operations. Because of this directive it is 
now more difficult for the TARTAN to interview Rita Cohen, Director of 
Food Service, than it is to interview Dr. Richard Cyert.
Each of these decisions by Rutledge is a serious infringement on the 
right of the public to know. Since, by the very definition of his job, 
Rutledges decisions directly affect students, he should likewise be 
responsive to students. A University that prides itself on its smallness and 
the accessibility of its administrators has no room for a paranoiac 
bureaucracy.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
A SMALL GROUP OF CONCERNED CITIZENS 
FIGHTS FOR BETTER ZONING AND THE 
PLACEMENT OF SOCIAL REFORM IN 
SOMEBODY ELSES BACKYARD
Elsewhere in this paper, an article explains how a group of people called the 
More wood-Shady side Citizens Association discouraged the university from turning 
Flinn House into a rehabilitation center for women convicts. It may seem like the 
typical story of a neighborhood organizing to protect property values by resisting 
zoning change.
In my neighborhood back home, for example, people periodically discover that 
some developer plans to build apartments nearby. The alarm sounds, and every 
civic-minded body in the community mobilizes to defend the sanctity of the single
family home. Several petitions begin to circulate, all of them saying the same thing in 
different ways. Somebody writes the state senator, who sends back a letter 
commending citizen participation in the zoning process without mentioning anything 
about apartments.
Finally comes a big angry meeting before the zoning board, held in a stuffy 
room packed with hysterical mothers and bellowing fathers and wailing kids. And 
then, after a lot of sweating, the citizens win a partial victory: the zoning board lets 
the developer put up multi-family houses instead of apartments.
But it didnt work that way at all for the Morewood-Shadyside Citizens 
Association. Something in the typical story went awry, because there were no 
petitions, no hysterical mothers, no bellowing fathers, and no sweating. The 
Association won a complete victory without any angry meeting. They won after a few 
very big men made a few phone calls. And because the issue never had a chance to 
come to that very democratic test, an open zoning hearing, no one will ever know 
whether the majority of the neighbors did indeed object.
It doesnt work that way in my neighborhood.
The next time someone explains that private universities must be preserved 
because they are free from certain pressures that distort the activities of schools 
funded by government, keep in mind the fact that roses of any color have thorns.
Steve Correll
K factoryhas also another aspact, which we call the financial aspect It gives people the power to buy< wages, dividends which are power to buy) but it is also the cause of prices or values, financial, 1 ean financial values It pays workers, and nays for Material.Jhat it pays in wages and dividendsstays fluid, as Dower to buy, and this power is less, per forta, damn blast your intellex, is less than the total payments made by the factory ( as wages, dividends Vn oayments for raw aterial bank charges etceteraand all, that is the whole, that is the total of these is added into the total of prices caused bv that factory, any da factory and there is and wist be therefore a clog and the r>ower to purchase can never ( under the present system) catch up withorices at lsrue, ... ,and the light becste* so bright *nd so blind inin this layer of paradisethat the ind of man was bewildered.
froCanto XTltVIll
The followmg is a reprint of a 
memorandum sent to Dr. Edward Schatz, 
Vice President for Academic Affairs, with 
regard to classroom maintenance.
I wonder what progress you are making 
in the charge given to you by the Faculty 
Senate on October 9 to investigate the 
maintenance of classrooms and to pinpoint 
responsibility for this very important 
academic affair.
As I mentioned to you early in the 
semester, the conditions in classrooms with 
respect to furniture, lighting, blackboards, 
and other facilities for normal teaching, 
and with respect to cleanliness, range from 
poor to deplorable. Mr. Robert Lichy, Di
rector of Building Services, had reported to 
the Senate on September 18 that his re
sponsibilities did not include furnishing or 
maintenance of equipment, and that his 
crews were cleaning classrooms on an every-other-day schedule in order to save 
$44,000 per year. I told him, the Senate, 
and later you, that it was a mistake to have 
responsibility for various phases of class
room maintenance separated, and false 
economy not to clean and service 
classrooms at least daily.
Since then there have been some im
provements. On the other hand, there have 
been many cases where cleaning has not 
been done as often as every other working 
day, and where requests for specific cor
rections have not resulted in action.
Since education is our foremost fun
ction, since the students pay heavily to get 
it here, and since classrooms are where 
most of the student-faculty contacts occur, 
it is inexcusable not to provide and 
maintain adequate classroom facilities. 
There should be a clear assignment of re
sponsibilities, with a single person having 
the overall responsibility, and a single 
channel for requests and complaints.
You stated that in order to get im
proved classroom maintenance, I would 
have to tell you where the money would 
come from. There are three possibilities: 
the faculty, the students, and outside 
donors.
The faculty might pay for this by agree
ing to have their offices cleaned less fre
quently. If, for example, offices were being 
serviced once a week at a cost of $60,000 
per year, changing this to once every four 
weeks at $15,000 would free $45,000 for 
daily classroom maintenance.
The students could pay for this by a 
special fee of $5.00 per semester. With 
4,379 students, this would provide very 
close to $44,000 in two semesters. The 
students are already used to having addi
tional fees added onto their tuition bills.
A preferable method would be to seek 
an outside donor. With a catchy goal title 
like Carnegie-Mellon University Classroom 
Maintenance Upgrading, which could be 
abbreviated for publicity purposes as 
(CMU)2 , this should have considerable ap
peal to some of our alumni In fact, the 
goal could be set at $88,000 per year so as 
to provide for all of the routine mainten
ance, or a round figure like $100,000 so as 
to provide a little extra for the replacement 
of classroom desks which are borrowed 
by architecture students, and the like.
As soon as the person with overall re
sponsibility for classroom maintenance is 
designated, I would like to be informed so  
that I can direct my complaints, requests, 
and suggestions to him
Truman P. Kohman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuf^day, November 20, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Pre-Registration enrollment of students on
class lists will be done by the academic 
departments in their respective areas and 
the time for pre-registration will be ex
tended to cover a two day period: Tuesday 
and Wednesday, December 4 and 5, 1973. 
All students should arrange to have 3 cop
ies of the schedules approved by their ad
visors and then individually arrange to gain 
enrollment for the courses needed and/or 
required by going to each pertinent depart
ment at any convenient time between 9 am 
and 4 pm on the two days indicated.
After enrollment of all courses sched
uled, students should return the 3 copies of 
their schedules to their major department 
to be held until formal registration on Jan
uary 7, 1974. These schedules should clear
ly indicate any adjustments which have 
been made in the enrollment process. 
Course cards are ultimately keypunched 
from these schedules, and it is therefore 
very important that course numbers, 
sections, units and student numbers be 
accurate and legible. It should also be 
noted that the official roster of a class is 
determined by the list generated by each 
department in the pre-registration and reg
istration procedure. If a student does not 
sign the class list for each course in which 
he wishes to enroll, no subsequent issuance 
of class cards by the Registrar entitles him 
to entry into the course, and the instruc
tors may return such cards to the Registrar 
after marking them void. Students who 
have pre-registered will be given preference 
for places in courses over all students who 
have not pre-registered regardless of their 
classification (i.e. Senior, Junior, etc.)
Ford Foundation Fellowship: Graduate
Fellowships for Black Americans, Native 
Americans, Mexican Americans and Puerto 
Ricans are now available from The Ford 
Foundation. Deadline for submitting com
pleted applications and all supporting doc
uments is January 5, 1974. Eligibility is 
limited to a) applicants who plan to pursue 
full-time study toward the doctoral degree 
in the Arts or Sciences or b) applicants 
who hold a first post-baccalaureate profes
sional degree-such as the MBA, MPA, 
MSW, or MED and plan to continue on to 
the doctoral degree in preparation for a 
career in higher education. For further 
details see Dean Milligan, 207 Warner Hall.
The John Fitzgerald Kennedy School of
Government of Harvard University 
announces its graduate program in Public 
Policy. Ph.D., Master's or joint Master'sprofessional school degrees are offered. 
Applicants should be interested in' policy 
analysis and be at ease in both the, world of 
words and the world of numbers. Write 
Dean Harry Weiner, Littauer Center, Cam
bridge, Massachusetts 02138 for catalog 
and application.
There is going to be a workshop course
dealing with Acts of Perception lead by 
Carole Schneemann. The purpose is to en
large sensory awareness relevant to work 
with film, especially in regard to women. It 
will run 4 sessions over 5 days from 
November 26-30 from 7:30-10:00 pm. The 
coft is $20.00 per session and enrollment, is 
limited. For information call Film-Makers 
Workshop in East Liberty at 362-5449.
The Skibo Space Allocations Committee
met last week to review present student use 
of student organizational space in Skibo 
and to act on requests of new student 
organizations. The following Office ar
rangements were agreed to by the 
Committee and the individual 
organizations:
Rm 57: Activities Board; Rm 54: 
WRCT; Rm 53: Commuter Council; Rm 
52; TARTAN; Rm 33: Student Govern
ment Conference Room; Rm 21: Latin American Club, Young Socialist Alliance; 
Rm 19: Lounge which may be scheduled 
for informal student organizational meet
ings; Rm 13: Spring Carnival, MDC; Rm 
12: THISTLE; Rm 11: Student Organiza
tion Conference Room; Open Suite Area: 
Hillel, Tech Christian Fellowship, Kbrate, 
Women's Service Organization, and MENC.
The committee welcomes all requests by 
student organizations and attempts to ac
commodate as best as possible with the 
facilities available. We also welcome 
creative ideas for the development of the 
space to meet student interests. Please ad
dress these to Skibo Space Allocations 
Committee, 103 Skibo.
Rhodes Fellowships for Women: St. Anne's
College at the University of Oxford is 
inviting women graduates of the United 
States to apply for a Rhodes Visiting Fel
lowship tenable at the College for twc 
years. Deadline for applying is December 
31, 1973. Detalis, 207 Warner Hall.
As a freshman, you are about to make a
decision which will affect the remainder of 
your college career: your choice of a major 
area of study. We know that you can ob
tain information about courses of study 
from the departmental offic^ within your 
college. However, there might be other fac
tors involved in making your decision. If 
this is the case for you, then maybe we can 
be of further assistance. Feel free to drop 
by, or call, and informally talk with any 
one of us at th^ Peer Help Center, 150A 
Baker Hall, 6^7-7414.
' -
Vietnam: A Question of Torture: A filn
approaching the question of Saigon's politi
cal prisoners from the personal angle, tell 
ing the story of suffering humanity as eye 
witnesses have seen it (and photographeo 
it). Thursday, November 29, 7:30 pm. 
Wherrett Room, Skbio. Sponsored by 
Campus Ministry Council.
The Pittsburgh Free Clinic thanks everyone
who 'contributed to the success of their 
November 18th Tag Day. Volunteers 
collected $1050 from downtown and on 
local college campuses.
RUGS
forless
0 with your ID CardJ 9x12s $15, $19. $29, $39 also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
\ Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs 
furry rug< anci bedspreads. Low 
price* oriental rugs in many sixes.
'' ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
'' ru A c E'c 5426 Walnut ^J i Shadyside ,
'' 10 a.m. . 8 p.m. Sat. 'til S
'v For directions call 21-1025 *
Two art scholarships have just been
received. They are: 1) American Academy 
in Rome Fellowships for graduate^students 
only. Applications due December 31, 
1973. 2) The F. Lammot Belin Arts Schol
arship. Graduates and undergraduates eli
gible. Applications due January 15, 1974. 
Details in 207 Warner Hall.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
offers instruction in traditional English 
dances. The group meets in Room 524 of 
th$ University of Pittsburgh Student Union 
(occasionally in the main floor ballroom 
when it is available), Fifth Avenue at 
Bigelow Boulevard, Sunday evenings from 
7 to 9 pm. For the remainder of the year 
meetings will be on December 2, December 
9 and 16. Newcomers are welcome.
The Pre-registration helper, A Phi O's
F'acu Ity-Course Evaluation, will be 
available to all students and faculty, free of 
charge, immediately after Thanksgiving va
cation. This "Spring 1973 FCE" evaluates 
the spring semester of last year. The evalua
tion of our present courses and teachers 
will also be taking place following 
Thanksgiving vacation.
The Student Senate Health Fund which
provides interest free loans up to $200 for 
childcare or abortion fees is now handled 
by the Peer Help Center. For more infor
mation come to Baker Hall 150A or call 
687-7414.
CARE has launched its 1973 Thanksgiving
Food Crusade appeal to help feed millions 
of children and adults in 34 countries 
around the world. CARE's international 
operation is currently involved in one of 
the largest children's feeding programs in 
its history. Each day of the year, 10,000 
people die of finalnutrition and starvationmost of these are children. To held allevi
ate the suffering of millions, CARE is 
asking the American Dublic to support this 
campaign. Clubs, schools, and business or
ganizations are also asked to include CARE 
in their holiday contributions. A two-dollar 
donation helps feed 180 children. $5.00 
provides bowls of high-protein porridge for 
1,500 youngsters. $10.00 will give 6,000 
children a cup of protein-enriched break
fast drink. $100.00 sends over a ton of 
food to a needy area of the world. During
1973, massive aid was sent to Africa and 
Pakistan which were hard hit by droughts 
and floods. Other parts of the world struck 
by famine and disaster also received CARE 
aid of all types. Those wishing to contrib
ute may send donations to CARE's 
regional office located in Kaufmann's De
partment Store, 400 Fifth Avenue, 
Pittsburgh,Pa. 15219.
MID-YEAR GRADUATES
The Navy needs pilots and flight 
pfficers. Starting salary after 4 months 
training is $10,000 plus. Free medical 
and dental benefits. Perfect vision not 
required. For more information, call 
644-5889 or 644^5897. - .
College seniors will have an opportunity to
compete in the Federal Service Entrance 
Examination (FSEE) when it is given on a 
walk-in basis at our campus on Tuesday 
December 4, 1973. Details about the 
on-campus test are available at the Place
ment Office. During the past year 116 oncampus tests were given at 76 colleges 
within the Philadelphia Region which 
covers five states including this area. More 
than 2,300 men and women competed in 
these tests and more than 60% attained an 
eligible rating. The FSEE was designed 
with the college student in mind. One test s 
taken one time in one place opens the door 
to approximately 60 different and chal
lenging career fields in many Federal agen
cies at locations all over the country. Oper 
to seniors and graduates in any academic 
major the program is appropriate for stu
dents in all curricula except Engineering, 
Sciences, Accounting and a limited number 
of other technical fields. This examination | 
remains the most popular avenue for ob
taining Federal emplyoment. Room 231 
Baker Hall. 1 pm.
Through the halls of Mellon Institute ring
these and other holiday refrains, as the 
Mellon Institute chorus prepares for its an
nual Christmas performance. Under the in
spiring direction of Paul Koch and accomj 
panied by his talented wife Kay Koch, the 
Mellon Institute Chorus rehearses every 
Tuesday from 12:30 to 1:30 in the third 
floor Conference Room. All members of 
the Carnegie-Mellon Community are cor
dially invited to participate. So come ye 
sopranos, altos, tenors and basses. You will 
see that this year's music is particularly 
outstanding in terms of its variety in tradig 
tional and non-tradiaional numbers. This 
year's program will be held on Friday, De
cember 14, 1973 in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium at 8:30 pm.
Classified Ads
Fireside Readers League needs two
energetic individuals. Work in our magazine 
promotion display at Seven Springs Ski 
Resort. Friday evenings through Sunday 
evenings; earn 50 to 100 dollars per week
end. Motel expenses paid. Ideal for college 
student. Call Mr. Brennan. 922-5477.
PKftSONALS
Anna,
It's late, I'm tired and I miss you. The 
words and rhymes are fun (and true), but 
in the rain it's all the same, and 2 a.m. is no 
time to be alone. Next week again I'll laugh 
and smile and scribble you a line. But for 
now accept this please: Even many miles 
apart, the thought of your smile makes my 
life worthwhile. Carl
Marion,
What dreams may tarry in the breeze, 
The ghost behind a million trees.
Only your lawless lover knows
The forest where the wood wind blows.
Robin

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973 Page 5
Election Results
WDCGRADUATE
Full TermFull Term
Suzy Duffy23Bernard Suffrin22
Mary Cowin21Dave Groupe16
Dave Jefferson11
Half TermEllis Cohen11
Elaine Rich12
Lynn Patch18Phil Koltum10
MDCHalf Term
Full Term
Jack Dills9
Keith McDonald99Tom Abraham8
Paul Landis83Ethan Hertz8
Ronald Smith82Lee Couprider8
Stephen Lee (i)76Chuck Weinstock8
John Spaulding71Doug Clark7
COMMUTERS *
Half TermFull Term
Bill Hower70Ed Levine (i)58Ted Franklin67Ed Abramson56Sam Enns65Steve Clark (i)55John Seykoski65Leslie Toth (i)54
UFORobert Hanna53
Full TermPaul Franke46
Brad Whitehead54Half Term
Tied for one full and oneNick Lardas42
half term seatJohn Arago41
Robert Corey39
Dave Meixner (i)49Fr^nk Sciulli7
Frank Sacco49Margaret Woods6
Voting Twice.
continued from page 1
among the graduate constituency. David 
Groupe was the only candidate nominated, 
and the constituency had 12 available 
positions. Eleven other graduates won as 
write-ins.
Mens Dorm Council, fraternities, and 
Womens Dorm Council didnt elect any 
write-ins. The extension of the petition 
deadline attracted more candidates, 
particularly among commuters and MDC.
Last spring the election was run with 
special computer printed labels bearing 
each individual students name. A student 
could vote only if the polling place had his 
name on an unused label. This process 
guarded against a student voting twice. For 
this fall election, IDs were marked in ink 
to invalidate them.
The TARTAN asked Senate Rules 
Committee chairman Dave Meixner, who 
ran the elections, why the election system 
was changed. Meixner explained that 
printing the computer list is a complicated 
and time-consuming task.
Asked whether this repetition of voting 
could invalidate the election if it were 
discovered that many people voted twice.
No Problem
vleixner replied: Enough people voted to 
nake it a valid election. In this election we 
relied on the basic honesty of students. In 
the future, we will not be able to do so. 
There were approximately 250 ballots 
cast at Baker Hall, slightly more at Doherty 
and only 26 ballots cast at Fine Arts. In 
the future, Meixner expects the Fine Arts 
Building wont be used as a polling 
location.
The TARTAN asked Meixner why the 
constituencies are set up according to place 
of residence. Meixner commented, Right 
now, the residences represent interest 
groups. The frats, MDC, WDC, and' 
commuters have separate purposes. In this 
respect, the graduate constituency is 
formed as an interest group. There will be a 
proposal dealing with this question at the 
first or second senate meeting.
Meixner explained the voting system 
would require less work if set by academic 
department because each department has 
computer print-outs of their students. 
Double majors are the only extra 
classification youd have to check for.
Meixner is also exploring the practical
ities of changing all offices to full terms.FIRST BIRTHDAY SALESave 10-40%
ir.3o-5:30
\&9HCmi6 Sca *87-7*7.
hop*
APPEARING IN CONCERT
* .....un - -f - -1,,--,.... 1|r
NEW
MICHAEL KAMEN
AND THEYORK ROCK ENSEMBLE
IN THE
SKIBO BALLROOM
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 30 FOR 2 SHOWS 7 4. 9:30
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
$3.00 WITH COLLEGE ID $4.00 WITHOUT
AN ACTIVITIES BOARD PRODUCTION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973
' ^r..E\rv .0-2 Tadmsvoi/! ,Vt*b?S)jTtf/ TS/vT 3HT
Return Of The Thistle
by Sandy ComQ
In spite of a history of serious financial 
problems the Thistle, C-MUs yearbook is 
coming out of a three year hibernation.
Financial .difficulties coupled with a 
conflict in subject matter in the 1970 issue 
brought the yearbook to an end. No 
publication reminiscent of a traditional 
yearbook was attempted the following year 
but a paperback edition did appear in 71.
When John McGuire, business manager 
of this years publication, requested the 
finance committees go-ahead to a 1974 
yearbook publication, the committee felt it 
necessary that some data be provided for 
their use in making a decision. A subcom
mittee of six persons, including McGuire, 
Cliffeton Green, Linda Ackerman. Ruth 
Potts, Kevin Scott, and Erica Gees was 
recognized by senate and authorized to 
compile a financial review of previous 
Thistle publications.
The statistics compiled for 1967 
through 1971 show that for years 68 and 
69. when extremely traditional yearbooks 
were attempted, a combined deficit of 
$3905 was accumulated. Since it is planned 
that the 1974 book reflect tradition, the 
feasibility of senate's financing the book 
was questioned by Director of Student 
Activities, Robert McCurdy. However. 
McGuire pointed out that since the total 
yearbook budget for 1974 is only S5520, 
(as compared with SI2,200 in '68 and 
SI 1,900 in 69) it is unlikely that such a 
large deficit would amass.
After studying the financial review 
submitted by the subcommittee the Thistle 
staff was given a conditional go ahead with 
the stipulation that 300 copies out of the 
600 intended for publication be sold in an 
advance sales campaign by November 15. 
As of 3:00 p.m. on that date, 261 
yearbook orders had been taken, 39 short 
of the required 50%. Yet at a meeting on 
the same day, the finance committee 
decided to go all the way and allocate all 
necessary funds for the 1974 Thistle 
despite the orders discrepancy. When asked 
if such a move might endanger upcoming 
senate sponsored events such as Spring 
Carnival and Scotch N Soda productions, 
McCurdy replied, What theyre doing is 
committing funds beyond what is available 
this year, but it is not fair to say that these 
two activities in particular are being 
endangered.
McCurdys reservations concerning the 
Thistles publication center around its 
immediacy. He commented, I think they 
(the staff and committee) are moving too 
fast. ^ The first year should be spent in 
looking at previous years problems and 
setting up a good system. Student interest 
might also be heightened by postponing 
the publication of the first book under the 
new system. He noted also that he felt 
not enough research had been done in the 
area of Market Survey determining the 
level of interest among seniors and other 
classmen. The surveys taken were very 
inadequate; they were done from room to
Pinballs Removed From Grill - Again
continued from page 1
approved a trial installation of the 
machines in the grill but has since said I 
should have checked around a little before 
making the decision.
Between the time the machines had 
been installed and their location changed 
there was one fight in the Tartan grill, not 
at the machines, in which security had to 
be called. Ronald Rutledge, chief of the 
Operations Division, said that while the 
machines were located in the Grill any 
outsider was apt to find them; but in their 
present location, in the Game room, only 
on-campus people who know where they 
are can find and use them. When discussing 
the problem and arriving at the decision, 
both Mrs. Cohen and Ronald Rutledge felt 
that these off-campus people using the 
pinball machines were causing troubles for 
the management of the Grill. Since the 
machines have been removed there have 
been no fights in the Grill.
Frank Collosimo, Director of Customer 
Relations, stated that he had received some 
complaints, mostly from Graduate and 
Drama students, about all the teeny 
boppers screaming and the inability to 
study in the lower level because of the 
noise. He received an equal number of 
complaints after the removal of the 
machines from people who wanted the 
machines where they had been for con
venience reasons.AB gets 50% of the money that these
machines draw, with the vendor taking the 
other half. If student money is going into 
a device like that the student should get 
the money, says McCurdy. The first week 
the machines were in they made about 
$200, now since they have been moved 
into the game room, the sum is under
SI00. Last year AB had figured that 
$4800, about 1/7 of their budget, came 
from the pinball and jukebox profits. Since 
AB had figured that much in the budget, 
when the pinball machines were put back 
last year the income from them was cut by 
40%. Operations made up this difference so 
AB would not lose money.
According to Rutledge when operations 
decided to remove the pinball machines it 
was also decided to give AB 100% of the 
profits. That, he claimed, amounts to 
SI000 a year more than the profits derived 
from the jukebox, whose profits are no 
longer split with AB. On checking with 
McCurdy, the TARTAN was told that any 
money taken in from both machines was 
and still is divided only between the vendor 
and the AB.
There is also a security problem. Last 
year the machines were continuosly van
dalized in the game room because of the 
seclusion and inability to watch over them. 
At the grill they were in the open, con
spicuous and in a relatively safe area. This 
year a high school student was caught 
trying to force his way into a machine 
which may solve a large part of the 
previous vandalizing.
Dean Swank pointed out that the
activities desk could no longer watch over
the pinball machines at the Tartan Grill 
because the new structures in Skibo
obstructed the view. This reporter found 
this to be untrue; anyone sitting behind the 
desk has the same view of the location at 
the grill as they would have had prior to 
the renovation. It is totally impossible to 
see the pinball machines in their present 
location in the game room from the
information desk.
room, and the students were asked, Would 
you buy a yearbook? which is a little 
ridiculous. He added that they were done 
at the beginning of the year when students 
might have had access to a little extra cash, 
but now money is tighter and students are 
more reluctant to part with it.
McCurdy commented that despite his 
reservations, he was still quite encouraged 
by the enthusiasm and excitement of the 
students involved in the rebirth.
In disagreement with McCurdy, 
McGuire says that had the first year been 
spent in development and organization 
only, I might have lost the interest of the 
people working with me. He said that he 
is still very optimistic and encouraged by 
the go ahead given by the senate, but that 
as he sees it, C-MU is still a very apathetic 
campus. In their campaign to promote 
advance sales of the Thistle, McGuire says 
that he discovered that student inaction 
concerning the yearbook is centered 
around two major campus groups: Seniors 
and fraternities.
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors are 
much more with and for the university, 
he added.
Out of 653 students in the senior class 
at C-MU, o,ily 233, or a little more than 
1/3 showed up for yearbook pictures. 
McGuire made an effort to telephone each 
senior to convince them that it would be 
for their own benefit if they would agree 
to have their pictures taken for the 
yearbook. Most of them just didnt care.
They were angry because I had disturbed 
them and didnt seem to care that I had 
taken the time to try and call every senior 
personally in the school. However, he 
pointed out that word had gotten back to 
him from several seniors that they had 
been convinced to have their pictures taken 
because of his phone call.
McGuire feels that the second group 
responsible for much of the campus apathy 
toward the yearbook is the fraternities.
We asked the fraternities and sororities 
to submit copy and a group photo
graph for the yearbook, with the original 
idea that the group with the most inventive 
photograph would receive a write-up in the 
book. Since we are devoting an entire page 
to each fraternity and sorority, we 
expected more cooperation from the 
fraternities than we are receiving, but the 
sororities have been very cooperative.
He said that Sigma Nu refused to buy a 
copy of the book for their house for no 
apparent reason.
McGuire that actual work had begun on 
the book, with the photographers taking 
some pictures and layout just getting 
underway. The book itself is coming out 
between April 37 and May 3, and is 
expected to be an 8Mi by 11 hardbound 
traditional yearbook, with approximately 
208 pages of really great photography and 
a lot of copy.
Although the sales campaign is at an end 
for the moment, orders will be continued 
to be taken at the Skibo information desk.
GO
- -M 
NOW thru DEC .3
C M U 
BOOK STORE
IRecords at Big Discounts^ 
Save up to $3.00! 
Major label LPs! Top artists!
Many, many selections in this special purchase. Classics included! 
Hundreds of records! Come early for best selection!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973Page 7
Letters:
Flag Art 
Trial Postponed
continued from page 2
the last month, there have been fights in
volving outside people, IE. high school kids 
and street people. They have been hanging 
^ out in Skibo for a couple of years now. It 
now seems that they have become bored 
and have to be violent.
The fight at the dance was only one of 
several lately. There was one between 
shows at the Zappa concert. The Tartan 
Grill has been the scene of a weekly brawl - 
one every weekend. It seems that few 
people around here know what has been 
& going on - and fewer care. Evidently the 
Tartan thinks that one fight at a dance, and 
one at a concert are more newsworthy than 
all the other incidents of late.
We on the Activities Board feel that 
something very definite should be done 
about this - soon. We recommend to who
ever was instrumental in deciding that out
side people be not thrown out of Skibo 
$ reassess the situation and a new policy of 
closing Skibo be instituted. The Security 
Force should be enlarged, better trained 
and equipped to handle this type of 
.situation should it arise again. We also feel 
that if these measures are not taken, then 
the flexibility and service of the Activities 
Board as a collective entity will soon fail. 
In other words, we will not be able to 
} schedule anything of great appeal for fear 
that it will be broken up by similar 
incidents.
From the frequency and increasing 
seriousness of these incidents, it is 
reasonable to assume that someday soon 
we will have a very serious injury or even a 
death on our hands. We are sure that none 
of us want that.
^ The Executive Board
Activities Board
Editor:
In answer to your news-editorial con
cerning the trouble recently encountered at 
the Zappa concert and TGIF-I disagree.
There are many facts involved-the fact 
that there was violence at both cannot be 
f denied. Granted there was a jumpiness in 
the air-but I feel that the reason that 
Security advised the early end was that 
they couldnt spare enough manpower or 
time to control it. The trouble had 
subsided to the point that they were no 
longer needed.
I have run TGIFs for a year and this 
semester-and plan on doing it next year
* also. As far as I can remember, I have yet 
to see a Security officer patrolling TGIF-at 
least not this year. Therefore, I dont see 
how our anonymous officer could know or 
even have any idea as to the ratio of 
students to non-students.
Yes, it is the outsiders who are causing 
all the trouble. Situations such as this do 
not change overnight, especially when 
? throwing non-students out of TG will only 
result in the people going elsewhere on 
campus-most likely the grill. For this 
reason I have spent two days this past week 
talking to higher-ups, namely Williams, 
Christian, McCurdy, Taylor, and Swank. I 
was trying - to work out a viable solution 
to this problem - was hard.
Mr. Singer, do you attend TGs? The
* majority of off-campus people are either 
thirteen years old or so messed up on junk 
that they are more than instantly visible 
and therefore avoided by most sane Tech
In case youre interested about what 
happened to Bill Mogush who was charged 
with flag desecration, his trial has been 
postponed. Because of the structure of the 
court system, the trial could not proceed 
for at least two months. Mogush expressed 
satisfaction at the postponement because 
this gives more time to build a better case. 
His lawyer is trying to line up a witness 
from the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, 
an ex-German officer who served under 
Hitler. He would testify to the justification 
of using a swastika for a meaningful 
symbol of atrocities in World War II.
ERR A TUM
An article on page 6 of last weeks 
TARTAN erroneously attributed to Coach 
Rudy Yaksich the statement that the Ath 
letic Department was told not to contact 
Clyde Carters parents. Yaksich did not 
make such a statement, and the article 
should have said only that C-MAP handled 
all discussions with the parents. In addi
tion, the man in the photograph at the 
right of the page is Soccer Coach Gary 
Meckley, not Yaksich.
Abortion and pregnancy counseling are 
available from your fellow students at the 
Peer Help center. 150A Baker Hall, 
687-7414.
people. The ID card checking procedures I 
proposed to the higher-ups would allow 
any college ID. There is one problem to this.
I have reason to believe that the trouble 
last week was caused by PITT students.
Where is the line drawn?
Lastly, how can you pin the blame for 
the wave of violence on the AB? There 
happen to have been several fights recentlynone as serious as the one at the dancebut 
in any case, unnecessary fighting. The 
Tartan grill has become the scene of a 
weekly brawl, one each of the last three 
weeks. At least the Activities Board pro
vides some background entertainment for 
its fights. At TGIF, there will be no more.
TGIF Chairman 
William Capps
Editor:
Carnegie-Mellon University is re
presented by a Student Senate that pre
sumably, does not want to get involved in 
political activities and last week the Young 
Socialist Alliance was victimized by their 
self-imposed objectives.
C-MU members of the YSA were 
granted recognition by the Student 
Government as a campus organization in 
mid-October. With this recognition 
YSA-CMU planned forums on Chile, the: 
governments infringement of political 
rights, Black nationalism, and Soviet
Jewry. In addition, it planned for a 3-day Boston $38
regional conference in mid-November. To . r r rLvl:40a Ar 2:56 a Ex Sun NonstopLv ] 2-45 a Ar 1:05 a Ex Sun Nonstop Lv 1 2:40 a Ar 1:45 a Ex Sun Nonstopfund these activities, a budget was ubmitted to the Finance Committee on 
October 25. Honoraria for speakers and 
money for publicity comprised the bvk of 
the budget. Two forums had already I n 
presented - What Socialists Stand Foi,  
and Chile: What Happened (this was co
sponsored with the Latin-American Club) - 
and had received considerable response.
The Finance Committee recommended 
a portion of this budget and sent it to the 
Student Senate on Nov. 6 for approval. It
was rejected on the grounds that the YSA is Memphis *50 Nashville *38 NewYorit *28
(1) that funding a 
Going home costs
20/oless at night.
[XU
Chicago *31 Louisville *30
a political organization: 
political group would incorrectly reflect 
the [presumably neutral] politics of the 
Senate, and (2) since no other political 
groups requested funds, a $574 budget 
from this (i.e., socialist) group would seem 
unjustifiable.
We would like to explain our purpose as 
a campus organization. The Young 
Socialist Alliance is an organization 
devoted to introducing and educating the 
youth of this country to socialism. 
Specifically to LeninistTrotskyism, 
through struggles around particular issues. 
YSA is political. Its campus groups are 
educational: forums, debates, and literature 
sales are more the dissemination of news 
and ideas than active pojitical campaigning. 
The lack of similar activity by other 
political groups on campus is not the 
fault of the YSA.
Rejecting (or should I say ignoring) our 
budget would mean excluding many fine 
speakers and debates from this campus. We 
hope the Student Senate will reconsider its 
decision, and that you will support our 
right to continue our work as any other 
organization recognized on this campus. 
And basically to support our right to 
present our point of view.
Anne Collins
YSA at CMU
Lv 12:35 a Ar 1:19a Ex Sun Nonstop Lv 1 2:45 o Ar 1:07 a Ex SunNonstopLv 1:45 a 
Lv 1:55 a
Ar 2:46 a/ N 
Ar 2:58 o/L
Ex Sun 
Ex Sun
Nonstop
Nonstop
St. Louis *40
Lv 1 2:35 a Ar 1:08 a Ex Sun Nonstop
Add small security charge to all faies N-Newcirk L-LaGuardio
Alleghenys Moonlighters cost 20% less than our daytime flights. 
But thats not all. Our late-evening departures mean less traffic 
and fewer people at the airport. And your holiday lasts longer 
because you leave the night before.
Moonlighter jets are a real short cut home. Call 922-7500 
for reservations or information. Allegheny honors American Ex
press and all other general purpose credit cards. If youre under 
22, you can save on daytime flights, too.
The Alegheny Air System has a lot more going for you.
ALLEGHENY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973
Behind The Deathblow
continued from page 1
Through the maintenance of zoning 
restrictions, theyve provided us with a 
good neighborhood to work in. Were 
blessed in terms of urban universities and 
their environments. Urban studies have 
shown that zoning changes often sow the 
seeds for the deterioration of a neighbor
hood. That doesnt imply any sort of 
prejudice for any group; its simply in 
terms of physical decay.
Universitys Own Fault
Johnson strongly emphasized two 
related points: l ) That the Universitys 
failure to prepare the neighbors was 
perhaps the biggest part of the projects 
opposition and subsequent failure, 2) That 
the projects opposition came from those 
who have been and are good friends of the 
university, and that their role in the 
blockage of the program was no more 
important than that of any other single 
element.
But the university expects no 
opposition to the planned use of Flinn 
House as an apartment building. Rowell 
said that in preliminary talks with the 
neighbors, he found none of the opposition 
that C-MU faced last September.
If they need a variance, that may hurt 
it, Hunt told the TARTAN when asked 
about the proposed apartments. But 
Rowell says the buyer of the building will 
probably not need a zoning change. The 
building is 2 to 4 feet taller than the 1959 
zoning law allows, but according to Rowell 
such details are usually overlooked.
Future of Rehabilitation Project
The future of the rehabilitation center 
itself is still far from being assured, but 
those involved are regaining their 
optimism. Mrs. Cyert told the TARTAN, 
Im not completely discouraged by any 
means. Were looking at some places, and 
one looks very promising. We dont want 
to get too excited before were sure. Were 
taking one step at a time.
Mrs. Virginia Thornburgh, a resident of 
the area and supporter of the project spoke 
of the need to look to the future and to try 
to extract whatever good can come out of 
the situation: That doesnt excuse the 
immorality of what was done, but its 
important now to find another center. 
Concerning the first point, Johnson 
said, I think its important to see 
(Johnson was speaking here about 
TARTAN editorials and cartoons in the 
weeks following the first issues Flinn 
House story) is that the thing was 
presented too much in terms of black and 
whitethe opposition was considered the 
bad guys, and the unviersity was presented 
as being pristine and pure. That just wasnt
so. The large number of calls we received 
immediately after the issue became public 
was the signal that we had failed. We had 
failed to take this to a meeting, or into 
peoples living rooms. We failed to establish 
the dialogue that historically we have 
always set up.
I blame myself for not educating th 
board of trustees on it, says Cyert.
Concerning the second point, Johnson 
pointed out a number of gifts the families 
have presented to C-MU (Hunt Library, 
Scaife & Warner Halls, and numerous other 
substantial gifts for other purposes), and 
stressed that they would not oppose a 
project such as this as a matter of course, 
but that their decisions to do so reflected 
personal and community interests.
As for Mr. Hunt, Johnson said, Hes 
one of the great gentlemen in the Pitts
burgh area, and hes a great friend of the 
university.
Johnson also discussed the impracticality of a university acting as an instrument 
of social change: Everybody within and 
around a university has different ideas as to 
which kinds of social programs take 
precedence. And this incident shows that 
when a university commits itself to such a 
program, this is what can happen.
Both Johnson and Schatz pointed out 
that in some cases, personal disapproval of 
such programs and their introduction into 
the community played a part in some of 
the negative reactions: The word
prisoners sends a chill up the spines of a 
lot of people who react viscerally and dont 
take the time to think, said Johnson. And 
Schatz, commenting on the number of 
variables considered in the Trustees 
decision to drop the plans, said, This is 
not to suggest that there werent a number 
of people unhappy with the nature of the 
program.
Its not a question of whether it was 
for the half-way house, says Hunt.
Schatz agrees. Even if it would have a 
C-MU program, if it had called for a zoning 
change, we would have met with the same 
resistance.
Architecture Students Ignored
At one point that might have been a 
possibility. Last fall a group of Archi
tecture students approached the university 
with a proposal whereby they would rent 
the house as a residence and working 
quarters for a pre-professional architectural 
fraternity. After spending three months 
working their way through university 
channels, the group found that the 
University had finalized the Rehabilitation 
Center lease, sealing an understanding that 
had been present since before the students 
request was initially made.
* Problems,
by Dave Bush
In a certain cipher, GUZIMCONWO 
translates into ASSEMBLING, and the 
key word in the cipher is 
PERNACIOUS. Decipher VCZUUJQFMM.
Answer to Last Weeks Problem: Let thefunctions f(n) and s(n) be defined as fol
lows: Choose n distinct points on a circle, 
label them 0,1,2... (n-1), . and follow the 
line segment drawing process described in 
the problem. Let f(n) be the number of the 
first endpoint to the last line segment 
drawn, and s(n) = the number of the sec
ond endpoint to the same line segment.
Anyone?
Experimentation will verify the following 
facts about f and s: 
f(2) = 0; f(3) = 2 
s(2) = 1; s(3) = 0 
If n is even; 
f(n)=2*f(n/2), snd s(n)=2*s(n/2)
If n is odd, 
f(n)=2*f((n+l)/21) if f((n+l)/2) 
is greater than 0 or 
n1 if f((n+1 )/2)=0. 
s(n)=2*s((n+l)/21) if
s((n+l)/2) is greater than
0 or n1 if s((n+l )/2)=0.
Applying these formulas gives f( 11827) = 
7270, and s(l 1827)= 11382.
Bowmar MX-70
8-digit AC/DC electronic calculator with memory. 
Adds, subtracts, multiplies, divides, memory and 
recall, floating decimal. Comes with vinyl carrying 
case, rechargeable nickel cadmium batteries, and AC 
adapter/charger. Only
$103.95 
Bowmar MX-60
8-digit AC/DC electronic calculator with per
centage key. Adds, subtracts, multiplies, divides, and 
gives you instant percentages, full floating decimal. 
Comes with Vinyl carrying case, batteries, and AC
adapter. $73.95
Bowmar MX-40
Same as Bowmar MX-60 except no percent key.
$67.50
Note all Bowmar calculators come with a one year guarantee, and there is a Bowmar 
service center in Pittsburgh.
Name
Address
City State Zip Code
-------------- Bowmar MX-70 ^i To: Paga Forlai
-------------- , MX-60 4th Avenue
-------------- MX-40 New Eagle, Pa. 15067
258-7874
Enclosed is my check or money order for $----------------------.
Pennsylvania residents enclose 6% sales tax on all orders.
Program on Human Sexuality 
Carnegie-Mellon University
1973/1974
Uses and Abuses of Sexuality 
' Psychological and Sociological -
DR. LORE RUBIN U. of PITTSBURGH ROBT. E. COLVILLE, SUPT., PGH. POLICE DEPT
BREED MEMORIAL HALL. MMCC 
WEDNESDAY. 8:00 P.M. 
OPEN TO MEN AND WOMEN
RESEARCH AIDS
FREE CATALOG
-Thousands of research aids listed
-Each available with footnotes and bibliography
-Lowest prices are GUARANTEED
For a FREE copy of our latest 80-page 
mail-order catalog, send 50 cents (to 
cover postage and handling) to
NA TL RESEARCH BANK 
420 N. Palm Dr., Bev. Hills, Cal. 90210 
You must include your zip code.
TELEPHONE: (213) 271-5439

---------------------------------------------------

^HE TARTAN-uesday, No^ntr o|'1^73-Page 9
 Profs To Be FiredNew Profs Hired
continued from page 1
So has William Leaf. Joel Goldstein has 
worked extensively with students ana aone 
popular research into psychoactive drugs. 
^ Hayes served as acting dean of H&SS in
1969 and was instrumental in forming the 
idea of the new college, H&SS.
Korn and Rosie Pinkus have developed a 
professional option in the psychology 
department for students interested in 
training directly for a profession instead of 
continuing their education at a graduate 
school. If both are forced to leave, there is 
I some doubt whether that program can 
continue.
Korn and Hayes said this action makes 
it clear that a professor cant get promoted 
just for good teaching. Korn also complains 
about the Cyert administration. Cyert 
seems to be sincerely concerned with 
undergraduates, he said. But not enough 
to make sure that the faculty who do the* 
day-to-day work with undergraduates stay
* on.
Gregg refused to comment on individual 
cases because he doesnt want to say 
anything prejudicial to review or appeal. 
But he does make it clear that the 
recommendations did not result from any 
deliberate change in policy or any 
deliberate change in emphasis within the 
^ department. Each recommendation was 
made on the basis of individual decisions, 
he said. Other sources add that it is only a 
coinciden,ce. that so many unpromotable 
faculty came up for promotion at the same 
time.
But some faculty sources the department 
has systematically removed teachers who, 
in the eyes of the department, do not con^ tribute to the departments eminence.
Dr. Korn is concerned that this practice 
is causing the department to become very 
narrow, but he says that this may very well 
be consistent with the goals of the 
department. Dr. Hayes adds that any major 
university these days that is going to have 
an emphasis on eminence is going to have 
an emphasis on research. And a small 
university has got to specialize.
 Ironically, Dr. Hayes did a study in
1970 entitled Research, Teaching, and 
Faculty Fate. His major contention in the 
paper was that research far outweighs 
teaching ability as a factof in faculty 
promotion. Hayes also argues that the 
statement, You cant be a good teacher 
unless youre a good researcher, is a myth, 
and that the two are often unrelated. No
* one ever argues that you cant be a good 
researcher unless youre a good teacher, 
he says.
Overall, Korn feels that the Psychology
I'iff Hi ?
XX
. AS*, ,(sii ViINn<). z*t>li I) i . <n,mnmift, rm xs|*c4*3hMty, Hc*m)l, i.i isseH f r r':X<, P.Chme,mWSir*, 5.$*? <m lsAmCuiff. (Hlmmmg. f*m imfbitm mChm, M.mi .vw-CzWCrrinm-,m vhfi-A\i'tirteti ,mwwt % {Slift li410  Idf <t, r,.rrri-i-mmj*<*(kHHtmi, r, (Sa m/Raat fi,miIff, itimm, aytH, f M %tot feer,

IM SsWf,>t. M.feMrt,ri A* m s?-!*-o. <*U<. 1Uid, fi.minUm\ , iMm$m\, H ,Wt so410 i 2**Mf*fmt, K.m ni*(A)nitbt letoi$'iP8ick, R,mi 14 j*1totcn'ukf,ic-m*) . ce ti*>i,(arnin , J, (;m& .#*m*it
? j, H&lei M*' <:14$lui
departments action gives a clear message 
to both the students and faculty. It tells 
the students that the department has a 
clear emphasis and can give a good, 
specialized education in one area, with a 
little bit of education in a few other areas. 
It tells the faculty that if they care about 
undergraduate education instead of 
research, theyre in trouble.
Hayes main concern is that the 
university be honest in dealing with both 
students and faculty. The Faculty Hand
book states that an excellent teacher who 
is a mediocre researcher is no more likely 
to win promotion than a mediocre teacher 
who excels in research. He feels that 
incoming faculty ought to be made aware 
that this is not really true, and that 
teaching, in this context, can refer to 
visibility in teaching, the number of 
teaching awards and articles published 
about teaching.
He also feels that students ought to hear 
and be aware of the fact that the emphasis 
of the department is not on teaching.
I dont object to going one way or the 
other (toward research or teaching), but I 
think the department and the university 
should strive for complete honesty.
As a whole, the faculty members 
involved dont seem upset. Some say that 
they have been treated openly, honestly, 
and fairly and have no grounds for 
complaint. Others say that they were 
planning to leave anyway. As one source 
put it, The people who are getting 
screwed are not the faculty. They are the 
students and public who believe that C-MU 
is a lot of thines it isnt.
TRAVEL TO EUROPE$185
Jet nonstop from Pittsburgh, Dec. 20-29,
2 full meals daily, first class hotel, 
tips, etc. included.
For as low as $185.00 round trip charter airfare.Students, staff, faculty, groups.
Call 624-7323 after 4 PM
623-4392 after 12 midnight
by Debbie Siegel
Profiles of four new C-MU teachers, two 
joining the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration and two joining the 
Department of Modern Languages:
Gershon Mandelker
Gershon Mandelker is presently teaching 
finance, his specialty to undergrads in the 
economics program. Next semester, hell 
move up to graduates. He is researching 
mergers and stock market reactions to 
economic events.
Mandelker received his B.A. at the 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem. At the 
Graduate School of Business in the 
University of Chicago, he was awarded his 
M.B.A. and Ph.D. and before coming to 
C-MU he taught and researched at the 
University of Chicago.
A factor that made coming to C-MU 
even more attractive to Mandelker was the 
high crime rate in his former neighborhood 
in Chicago. Until the move to Pittsburgh, 
Mandelker never allowed his 6*/4 year old 
son outside the apartment by himself 
during the day.
Mandelkers hobbies include chess, 
classical music, theater, and squash. He is a 
firm believer in jogging.
Johannes Pennings
Johannes Pennings finds GSIA a happy 
exception among business schools, most of 
which he thinks are a violation of 
academic facilities. Hes happy that GSIA 
occupies itself with academia rather than 
concentrating on making money.
This semester, Pennings is teaching 
Research Methods in Psychology to 
doctoral candidates. Next semester, he 
will teach Topics in the Phenomena of 
Complex Organization to AMS under
graduates. The AMS course deals with 
organizational analysis, leadership roles, 
collaborations, and effectiveness of 
organizations.
Formerly Pennings was Assistant Study 
Director of the Survey Research Center at 
the University of Michigans Institute for 
Social Research. He finds Pittsburgh has 
more to offer as a city than Ann Arbor, 
Michigan.
Asked why he came to C-MU, Pennings 
replied, The jobs offered at CarnegieMellon to new Ph.D.s are the best anyone 
can expect. They maximize your growth 
opportunities.
Once a week, Pennings takes a piano 
lesson: I was fed up enjoying music 
passively and I wanted to see how it was 
constructed.
Gershon Mandelker and Johannes Pennings, new professors 
in GSIA.
James Wehner
Photos by Brian Smith 
Jose Varela-Ibarra
For James Wehners dissertation, he is 
comparing the book of the German writer, 
Gunter Grass, Dog Ears with The Invisible 
Man by Ralph Ellison. Eighty per cent is 
finished and Wehner expects it will be 
wrapped up in a few months.
James Wehner is now teaching 
Elementary German and Intermediate 
German. Literature and Culture. Next 
Semester, he is offering a German Literary 
Imagination course which can be taken as 
an equivalent to literary imagination in the 
English Department. The course will con
centrate on Heinrich Boll, a controversial 
literary figure in Germany who is popular 
internationally. Many West Germans do 
not like him, explained Whener, because 
he is critical of the power structure in 
West Germany.
In response to how he sees the Modern 
Language Department and the require
ments, he answered, Personally, I find 
them quite reasonable. At C-MU. theyre 
less stringent than most language depart
ments. They have re-defined the level of 
proficiency one may achieve from the 
traditional two years requirement to three
Jose Varela-Ibarra has a special interest 
in applying humanistic psychology and the 
human potential movement to the study of 
languages and education in general. He 
edits the Latin American Literary Review. 
Presently he is finishing what he hopes will 
be the last draft for his dissertation on 
Alfonso Cortes, a Nicaraguan poet.
Asked why he came to C-MU, Jose 
explained, Its small, the Department of 
Modern Languages is made up of a very 
simpatico group of human beings. Dr. 
Jonas and Dr. Silenieks, who interviewed 
me. told me the Departments philosophy 
was to treat students decently, as fellow 
human beings.
Varela-Ibarras hobbies include photo
graphy, encountering people, fantasies, 
taking strawberry bubble baths, finding the 
perfect flan, making door and wall 
collages, wandering through bookstores 
and libraries, touching and being touched.
He described his view of what the 
Modern Language Department offers, an 
opportunity to cut the umbilical cord, 
break the egg shell, take the first step in 
the journey to Ixtlan, find out who each of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
THAT TIME AGAIN
18-211E.E. Circuits
18-221Elee. Proc. in Materials
18-233Computer Systems
18-301Fundamentals of Control
18-325Circuit Electronics B
18-343Engineering Analysis
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
KEY
8:30-11:30 a.m. 
1:30-4:30 p.m. 
7-10 p.m. 
9:30-10:30 a.m. 
6:30-9:30 p.m. 
9:30-11:30 a.m. 
10:30-12:30 
9:00-10:30 a.m. 
12:30-4:30 p.m.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-110Perspectives of Bio. Env.Fri14DMM 14
03-121Intro, to Modern BiologyTo be arranged
03-439Intro, to BiophysicsThu20BDH 2210
03-441Microbiology Genet. & Phys.Sat15AMM 112
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-101Intro, to Chemical Engr.Thu20BDH 2315
06-151Chem. Engr. ThermodynamicsFri14ADH 2315
06-201Chemical Engineering IIMon17ADH 1112
06-205Chemicaf Engr. Lab. IFri14BDH 2210
06-301Applied Reaction KineticsMon17ADH 2315
06-303Chem. Engr. Econ. Opt.Fri14ADH 2210
06-305Proc. Dynamics & ControlTue18ADH 2315
06-314Biochemical EngineeringSat15ADH 1112
CHEMISTRY
09-103Atoms, Molecules & Chem. Chng.To be arranged
09-105Elem. Phys. Chem. Princ.Sat15AGym
09-106Bonding & Structural Princ.Thu20ASH 125
09-117Organic Chemistry IThu20ASCH 7500
09-218Organic Chemistry IITue18ADH 2210
09-243Physical Chemistry 11Wed19ASCH 7500
09-248Inroganic ChemistryTue18ADH 1112
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-101Intro, to Engr. PlanningThu20ADH 2315
12-103Systems Engineering ITo be arranged
12-105Intro, to Engineering MechanicsWed19BPH 123B
12-304Systems Engineering IITue18APH 123B
12-315MaterialsFri14APH 125B
12-320Structural Mechanics ISat15BPH 123B
12-623Structural DesignSat15APH 123B
12-636Environmental EngineeringWed19ADH 2315
12-639Traffic Flow Theory & Op.Tue18APH 126A
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-100Prg. & Problem Solving IThu20BGym
15-102Computer Science ITue18BDH 2315
15-210Prog. & Problem Solving II
Section AMon17ASCH 7500
Section BMon17APH 100
15-215Software Engr. MethodsTo be arranged
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-100Electrical Engineering AThu20APH 100
18-101Electrical Engineering BTue18APH 100
18-113Electrical Engineering l-ATue18ASH 125
18-201Field AnalysisTue18BPH 100
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
19-222 Urban Models
MATHEMATICS
21-103 Fund, of Mathematics I
21-106 Computer Graphics
21-111 Physics-Calculus I
21-120 Intro, to Calculus I
21-121 Calculus I Sec. A.B.N.0
Other sections
21-122 Calculus II
21-131 Calculus A
21-141 Linear Algebra
21-142 Foundations of Analysis
21-150 Discrete Structures
21-223 Lin. Anal. & Diff. Equa. I
21-224 Lin. Anal. & Diff. Equa. II
21-255 Advanced Calculus I
21-256 Advanced Calculus 11
21-257 High. Math. Soc. Mgr. Sci. I
21-259 High. Math, for Eng. & Sci. I
21-260 High. Math, for Eng. & Sci. II
21-273 Modern Algebra I
21-275 Concepts of Algebra
21-289 Numerical Methods
21-371 Functions of Complex Variable 
21-488 Non-Linear Programming
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-121 Thermodynamics I
24-145 Dynam. of Physical Systems
Sec. A 
Sec. B
24-203 Stress Analysis
Sec. A 
Sec. B
24-215 Potential Flow & Aerodyn.
24-233 Heat Transfer
24-242 Engineering Vibrations
24-266 Engineering Design
PHYSICS
33-111 Physics-Calculus I
33-121 Physics I
33-122 Physics 11
33-123 Physics III
33-125 Astronomy
33-127 Physics III Honors
33-435 Modern Physics 11
33-436 Physical Mechanics
33-441 Thermodynamics
33-463 Special Relativity
STATISTICS
36-211 Prob. & Appl. Statistics I
36-215 Probability & Statistics I
36-219 Stat. Meth. Data Anal. I
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE 

27-131 Materials Science
27-210 Thermodynamics
27-217 Transport & Kinetics
27-313 Physical Metallurgy I
27-434 Mechanical Behavior II
27-545 Appl. Materials Engr. I
SOCIAL RELATIONS
88-101 Social Analysis I
Fri14BSCH 7500
Wed19ASH 206
Fri14ASCH 7500
Sat15ASCH 7500
Wed19ADH 2210 ,
Mon17APH 125B
Tue18ASH 224
Tue18BSCH 7500
To be arr.
Mon17BGym
Sat15ASCH 5320
Mon17ADH 2210
Mon17' AGym
Fri14BGym
Sat15BDH 2315
Mon17BSCH 7500
To be arr.
To be arr.
Fri14BGym
Fri14BGym
Thu20ADH 2210
Thu20ASCH 5320
Tue18ABH 231
Fri14BGym
To be arr.
Fri14ASCH 5304
Tue18BSCH 5304
Sat15BSCH 7500
To be arr.
Tue18BSCH 5403
To be arr.
Sat15ASH 220
Sat15ASH 224
Fri14ASH 224
Fri14ASH 206
Sat15ASH 212
Mon17ASH 212,220
Sat15'ASH 422
Thu13FSH 125
Mon 17BGym
Fri 14AGym
Tue 18BSCH 5310
Tue 18BGym
Thu 20BSCH 7500
Wed 19ASCH 5320
Wed 19ASCH 5336 
5316
Tue 18 
To be arr.
ASCH 5310
Sat 15ASCH 5310
Sat 15ADH 2315
Wed 19BSCH 7500
Wed 19B Gym
To be arr.
Wed 19 
To be arr.
ASCH 5403
Mon 17BDH A317
Sat 15"ADH A317
Mon 17ASCH 4327
Mon 17B DH 2210

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973-Page 11
88-104Finite Mathematics IThu 20BMM 14
88-200Decision AnalysisThu 20BMM 104
88-235Urban ServicesTo be arr.
88-236The Presidency & WatergateTue 18FMM 104
88-237Formal OrganizationsSat 15AMM 320
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101Elem. of Industrial Admin.
Section AThu. 20BBH 129A
BThu. 20BBH 129D
70-141Math, for Mgt. Sei. I
Section AWed. 19ABH 129A
BWed. 19ABH 129D
70-143Math, for Management IMon. 17CIA 225
70-213Organizational BehaviorThu. 20CIA 8
70-311Organizational Behavior IFri. 14APH 100
70-323Statistics for Mgt. IWed. 19CIA 8
70-331Business EnterpriseTue. 18BBH 129A
70-332Government and BusinessTue. 18BMM 14
70-363Law in Mod. Amer. SocietyTue. 18CIA Aud.
Wed. 19CIA Aud.
Thu. 20CIA Aud.
70-381Marketing I
Section AThu. 20ABH 129D
BThu. 20ABH 129A
70-383Marketing ManagementThu. 20CIA 213
70-403Strategy Planning & Implement.Thu. 20CIA 11
70-421Decision TheoryThu. 20BBH 132E
70-422Quant. Control SystemsFri. 14BBH 129A
70-423Mgt. Info. & Control Syst.Wed. 19CIA 11
70-426Advanced AccountingWed. 19ABH 231
70-441Meth. of Operations Rsch.Mon. 17ABH 129D,
129A
70-443Mgt. Sei. - Meth. & ModelsMon. 17CIA 9
Section AWed. 19
Wed. 19
Thu. 20
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-100AShaping of West. Civ. ITue. 18FSCH 7500
79-102Shaping of West. Civ. IITue. 18AGym
79-103American CivilizationWed. 19BMM 14
79-224Problems in American HistorySat. 15APH 125C
79-238Dev. of American EconomyThu. 20ABH 231
79-242Afro-American HistoryMon. 17FBH 231
79-260Early AmericaTo be arr.
79-290Recent Amer. Foreign PolicyThu. 20BSH 125
79-370Trad. China & E. Asian Cult.Mon. 17CBH 255A
79-423History & Lit. of FranceTue. 18BBH 232D
79-426History & Lit. of GermanyTo be arr.
79-500BPower & Values in Mod. WorldWed. 19BPH 225C
79-552Major Crises in Relig. ThoughtSat. 15BMM 14
79-578History-Literature SeminarFri. 14BBH 235A
79-653Introduction to LogicTo be arr.
MODERN LANGUAGES
82-101Elementary FrenchTo be arr.
82-107Programmed French To be arr.
82-111Int. Fr. I: Lit. & Cult.Mon. 17FBH 232t
82-113Int. Fr. II: Gram. & Comp.To be arr.
82-115Int. Fr. Ill: Conv.Thu. 20FBH 232D
82-121Elementary GermanMon. 17F.BH 232D
82-123Programmed GermanSat. 15FBH 232D
82-131Int. Ger. I: Lit. & Cult.Wed. 19FBH 232E
82-133Int. Ger. II: Gram. & Comp.Mon. 17FBH 235A
82-135Int. Ger. Ill: Conv.Sat. 15FBH 232E
82-141Elementary SpanishFri. 14FBH 232E
82-135Int. Ger. Ill: Conv.Sat. 15FBH 232E
82-141Elementary SpanishFri. 14FBH 232E
82-143Programmed SpanishFri. 14BBH 232D
82-155Int. Span. Ill: Conv.Mon. 17FBH 229B
82-161Elementary RussianFri. 14FBH 232D
82-163Intermediate RussianFri. 14BBH 232E
82-171Elementary ItalianSat. 15BBH 232D
82-210Intro, to French Lit.Sat. 15FBH 229B
82-284Hist. & Lit. of FranceTue. 18BBH 232D
82-301German Conv. & Comp.Sat. 15FBH 235A
82-371German Lit., 20th CenturyMon. 17FBH 235B
82-385Hist. & Lit. of GermanyTo be arr.
82-482Studies in Spanish Lit.To be arr.
82-601Elementary HebrewTue. 18BBH 232E
ENGLISH
76-199Literary Imagination
Section AWed. 19ABH 235A
BBH 245
CBH 255A
DBH 132H
EBH 229B
FPH 226A
GPH 126C
HPH 226B
IPH 226C
JPH 126A
KPH 126B
LBH 132E
MBH 132F
NPH 125D
OPH 225B
PPH 125CQPH 125B
RSCH 5310
76-210Medieval LiteratureThu. 20BPH 126A
76-230The 17th CenturyWed. 19ABH 235B
76-250The Romantic MovementWed. 19APH 219A
76-272Black & White in Amer. Lit.To be arr.*
76-285Contemp. Amer. LiteratureMon. 17ABH 245
76-321Shakespeare Section AThu. 20ABH 255A
BThu. 20ABH 235B
CThu. 20ABH 245
76-34018th-Century AuthorsTue. 18BBH 255A
76-36020th-Century British AuthorsFri. 14APH 219A
76-37019th-Century Amer. AuthorsThu. 20ABH 229E
76-406Modern NovelTo be arr.
76-411Intro. Rdg. Poetry Short FictionFri. 14BBH 255A
67-420English Drama Tue.18 ABH 245
76-420English DramaTue. 18ABH 245
76-436Approaches to Lit. CriticismSat. 15ABH 245
76-500Survey of Genres 1
CostanzoSat. 15ABH 255A
WaltonSat. 15ABH 255B
76q150Fiction WorkshopFro. 14ABH 255B
76-510Fiction WorkshopFri. 14ABH 255B
76-512Fiction WorkshopWed. 19ABH 232D
76-530Poetry Workshop 1Tue. 18ABH 229E
76-532Poetry Workshop 111Fri. 14ABH 255A
76-550Exposition 1Mon. 17BPH 226A
76-604Linguistics for ClassroomMon. 17ABH 255A
76-661The History-Literature SeminarFri. 14BBH 235A
MUSIC
57-133Opera WorkshopMon 17FEx. H.
57-161EurythmiesSat 15AMM 119
57-163Eurythmies IITue 18FMM 119
57-173History of Music IMon 17FMM 103
57-181Ear Train. & Sight-Singing I
Sec. AFri 14AFA 157
Sec. BFri 14GFA 160
57-203History of Music IIWed 19FMM 103
57-235Opera WorkshopFri 14FEx. H.
57-333ConductionWed 19AFA 157
57-376Secondary MethodsWed 19FFA 160
57-445Instrumental TechniquesSat 15HEx. H.
57-500VoiceTue 181Ex. H.
57-607VoiceMon 17FFA 160
57-661Voice and SpeechMon 17FFA 157
ECONOMICS
73-100Econ. Anal. & Cntmp. Prob. ISat 15BDH 2210
73-100TEcon. Anal. & Contmp. Prob. IThu 20CIA 9
73-150Econ. Anal. & Contmp. Prob. 11Thu 20CIA 225
73-200Econ. Growth & FluctuationsTo be arr.
73-"' -Res. Alloc, in Mkt. Econ.Mon 17BBH 129A
73-250TRes. Alloc, in Mkt. Econ.Wed 19CIA 9
73-360Manpower Econ. & Pol. IssuesMon 17.CIA 11
73-401Topics in Math. EconomicsSat 15BBH 129A
1 PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-121Cognitive Process in EducationWed 19FPH 100
85-150Psychology of AdjustmentTo be arr.
85-211Intro, to Cognitive PsychologyMon 17BPH 100
85-221Princ. of Child DevelopmentSat 15BPH 100
85-251Intro, to PersonalityTo be arr.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, Nvember 20, 1973
TGIF Security Tightens Up
by Steve Correli
A lot of high school students accus
tomed to loitering around C-MU may have 
to move elsewhere as a result of the recent 
brawl at TGIF.
Fear that violence will recur has sparked 
a joint effort by the Activities Board 
,Student Activities and Operations to dis
courage outsiders from gathering in Skibo 
on Friday and Saturday nights.
Steps taken by the three organizations, 
including systematic checking of ID cards 
at the entrance to AB events, will probably 
hit hardest at students from nearby high 
schools, even though TGIF organizers sus
pect the fight was provoked by students 
from the University of Pittsburgh. Spokes
men for all the organizations stress that 
they will be careful not to exclude students 
from other colleges or guest of C-MU 
students from using Skibo or attending 
student activities.I dont want anyone to get the idea 
were trying to make this a closed campus, 
because were not,  says Dean of Men 
Charles Williams.
The problem is pretty obvious on Fri
day afternoon on Forbes-- between 4 and 
4:30 you can almost get run down by the 
barrage of high school kids from Squirrel 
Hill getting out of cars and heading toward 
Skibo, says Director of Student Activities 
Robert McCurdy.
There are a number of events on this 
campus on Friday and Saturday nights that 
have come to be known as open to every
body in the community even though they 
are not intended to be, says Dean of 
Student Affairs Earle Swank.
Students met with representatives of 
Student Affairs, Student Activities, Secu
rity, and Food Services last Thursday night 
to plan measures that would prevent fur
ther violence.
And McCurdy says that the Operations 
Supervisors who oversee Skibo at night will 
begin spot checking IDs in the building 
whenever they suspect a group of hangers 
on has no reason to be there.
But both Capps and McCurdy assert 
that their actions will only transplant the 
problem elsewhere unless the rest of the 
university cooperates.
The most stringent measures are direc
ted at TGIF itself. Activities Board TGIF 
Chairman William Capps has begun to post 
signs readying No drugs or alcohol and 
station students to guard all entrances to 
the ballroom. From now on, Capps says, 
no one will be allowed in unless he shows 
an ID from some college or comes as the 
guest of a C-MU student.
Supporting that contention is a
Security checks student's ID at recent TGIF.
statement in the official Security report of 
the^November 9 brawl: Since a large num
ber of people proceeded to enter the Tar
tan Grill (after TGIF ended), officers stood by at that location...
The Grill is the problem, says 
McCurdy. Its the area hangout for high 
school students from Taylor Allderdice and 
Central Catholic ... He suggest the Grill 
hire someone to check IDs at the door.
Food Services director Rita Cohen has 
not decided to go that far, but she says she 
will instruct Grill managers to call Security 
to remove any troublemakers.
This is actually not the first time C-MU
Photo by Ed Levine
has decided to limit access to Skibo.
McCurdy recalled that several years ago 
the university instituted an elaborate pro
gram to card everyone who tried to enter 
Skibo, with a system of registering guest 
and issuing them temporary passes.
It aroused a great deal of antagonism, 
he says. That was around the time when 
the flaming liberal voice on this campus 
was loudest. He recalls that students 
would sit outside the door where guards 
IDs, offering to sign in as a guest any 
person who wanted to go inside. And he 
remembers that one student took the regis
tration book and tore it in half.
And more recently, at the end of last 
semester, in response to pressure from Stu
dent Senate and suggestions from
McCurdy, the Activities Board began 
checking IDs at TGIF. And the Grill posted 
a sign that warned that all patrons could be 
asked to present C-MU identification. Ac
cording to Senate sources, the main con
cern then was the prevalence of drug-deal
ing in both places.
But some time during the summer, the 
sign peeled off the wall of the Grill, and 
whn TGIF resumed this fall, the AB no 
longer checked IDs.
Capps explained he stopped checking 
cards because the problem with outsiders 
seemed to him to have lessened.
Whether or not Ive been wrong in not 
checking IDs at TG is inmaterial because Id 
just have been putting the problems else
where, he added. Nothing was being 
done elsewhere on campus... if the adminis
tration isnt going to do anything about the 
problem, why tell the AB?
Asked why the Grills policy seemed to 
have changed, Dean of Student Affairs 
Earle Swank said that campus attitudes 
toward problems caused by outsiders fol
low a cyclical course: If in a few weeks 
Capps and the Grill managers come to be
lieve that the problem has diminished, I 
suspect they will slacken their enforce
ment.
money is one factor that discourages 
both the AB and the Grill from barring 
non-college students.
Food Services director Rita Cohen said 
that while students come first, the Grill 
doesnt want to lose the money it gets 
from outsiders who dont cause trouble for 
the students. Chief of Operations Dr. 
Ronald Rutledge said that whil C-MU 
doesnt go out and advertise its food ser
vices, People who come from the outside 
are beneficial and that during summer and 
holidays, Anybody who is in the local 
community would tend to make a stale 
clientele. According to Rutledge the grill was at a loss.
The AB also appreciates the income 
from non-college customers. I would not 
say were dependent at all on high school 
students, but it helps, says Richard 
Wertheimer, chairman of Activities Board 
concerts. As an example, he said that if 
customers without college IDs had been 
excluded, the Zappa concert would have 
lost $1000 instead of making money. I 
was told by the Senate finance committee 
that if I ran one red cent under breaking 
even, they would cut my budget, and 
maybe even eliminate conerts...it would be 
dangerous to cut out the entire non 
-campus population, he said.
The good neighbor needs a little something from you.
A little something called blood.
Sad to say, a mere three percent of all the people contribute one 
hundred percent of all the blood thats freely donated in America.
And thats not all. This freely donated blood is ten times less likely to 
cause hepatitis in the recipient than is blood from commercial 
sources.
So the blood you give to the American Red CrossAmericas Good 
Neighbornot only may save a life. In todays serious bloodsituation, it also just might prevent a 
death. Or serious illness.+ thegood
neighbor.
TteAiMncanlldCroM
Giving blood is easy, takes only a 
few minutes. Ask any donor.
Be a good neighbor. Help The Good 
Neighbor. Today. ,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973-Page 13
PERSONAL COMMENTARY
by Shelley Burhans
We are looking at our own society 
where we must break down the ghetto 
walls and throw open the prison doors. 
Those who demand law and order must 
learn that these are impossible outside a 
context of justice and compassion. 
Statement from WRL, Feb. 1973
The question of freedom for a country, 
settled for this country almost two 
centuries ago, inherently involves the 
question of independence within the 
country. That battle rages in the U.S. less 
violently and more determinedly than ever. 
The immediate struggle for independence, 
won in terms of freedom from powers 
extending outside U.S. borders, has simply 
been reduced to containment within those 
borders.
What I am about to say will, Im sure, 
sound histrionic, grossly exaggerated, even 
humorous to some. But Im compelled to say 
it anyway, because its true and because 
the suicidal course of human action (or 
inaction) dictates that it needs to be said 
candidly.
The United States, in 1973, is still a 
slave-holding nation.
There are substantial sections in this 
country where thousands of sharecroppers 
exist, barely. Descendants of the slaves, 
they work the same plantations their 
ancestors worked, for the descendants of
the original owners, in conditions un
changed over two-hundred years.
There is yet another group of slaves, and 
they number in the millions. The
farmworkers who feed us.
They work in one of the most
hazardous occupations in the country. Not 
that the sun isnt healthy, or that theres 
anything dangerous about good soil, or 
that lettuce bites. The reason lies in that 
the few large corporate growers in this 
country, so few and so large that they are 
simply labeled agribusiness, employ the 
farmworkers, in what for many is a 
transient life, with little or no pay, few 
rights, and little hope of escaping the 
inhuman conditions where malnutrition, 
disease and death are as rampants as debts.
And none of us are free from the illeffects of the latter.
Many people have recognized and 
.responded to this responsibility, as many 
did in the last strike. Special commend
ation is due to the small group of faculty 
members at C-MU and other Pittsburgh 
schools who have chosen, despite the 
reluctance of many of their colleagues for 
political or reasons of relevance, to 
support our efforts, by bringing the 
farmworkers, films and thus the cause into 
the classroom, and otherwise. Independ
ence and education such as this are what 
the (non-violent) struggle for justice is all 
about.
As for relevance in a university, the 
farmworkers struggle has been one of the 
most crucial and moving dramas in this 
country for two centuries.
It has and continues to embody 
conflict enough for any writer, and is in 
fact the subject of one of the greatest 
pieces of American Literature ever written.
The labor camps are places progress in 
teehmiiogy aRdcoHHmuuty planning have
crucially failed to reach. -
The spirit and the sense of the farm
workers under their extenuating circum
stances are psychological forces we might 
all recognize and learn from.
Can we obtain the education that the 
world, with the JU.S., so crucially needs? It 
seems to me that it is the duty of all to 
teach what they know, of the teacher to 
encourage the learning of that which he 
does not, and of all to remain students.
Beyond this, I fell that there can be 
little question that we must direct our 
energies, as our individual skills and con
sciences dictate, towards justice and 
freedom. Its sadly indicative of the 
humanity thats already been destroyed in 
this world that many academics find state
ments like the above occasion for cynical 
laughter as they sit behind their desks.
Under a government which imprisons 
any unjustly, the true place for a just man 
is also prison. Henry D. Thoreau
We fought for the right to vote, for the 
rights of free speech and free press, and 
now for the social liberation of minorities 
such as women and gays. How absurd are 
any contentions that working, intelligent 
citizens shouldnt vote, or shouldnt be free 
to determine their own lives!
Millions in this country still fight for the 
right... to wake up the next morning, to 
feed and clothe their families and to live 
and express themselves as human beings.
The millions more that dont know it 
are slaves to a dangerous ignorance; the 
injustices suffered by that many citizens 
denies the moral power of the country, and 
weakens any claim we might otherwise 
have to justice and equality.
You are manly when you resist 
injustice with the strength of your soul  
Cesar Chavez.
Chavez brought the plight of the farm
workers to light with the first UFW strike 
and boycott in 1965, and with non-violent 
action won the first protective contracts 
the farmworkers had ever known. During 
the contract period, the farmworkers were 
able to make extensive reforms in the areas 
of education, housing and medical care.
Non-Violence to the Test Again
The contracts, won with five years of 
struggle, expired this year. The growers 
immediately signed sweetheart contracts 
with the Teamsters, who falsely claim to 
represent the farmworkers. In addition, 
Teamster officials say, it will be sometime 
before we can use Mexican-American ideas 
in our union ... perhaps two yeafc. (The 
farmworkers, although composed of all 
races, are primarily Chicano; Americans of 
Mexican descent.)
Let me emphasize this. Teamsters dont 
do the backbreaking work of picking 
lettuce and grapes. They hire high school 
students and children, and illegally immi
grated Mexicans to break the strike. Their 
contracts offer none of the protection 
clauses the UFW demands, clauses that 
farmworkers need if they are to survive and 
that you need if your food is to be safe. 
Teamsters are fond of saying that 
farmworkers hate Chavez and are coerced 
into joining the UFW. Teamsters, too, are 
fond of clubs and guns and dogs. I have 
seen them scatter strike-lines, and have 
watched them standing one-one over the 
strike breakers in the fields, to keep them 
there, once the strike-breakers have learned 
of the strike.
Thus the injustice is compounded, and 
grows, as it always does when condoned by 
law-enforcement agencies and licensed by 
of-the a. <v
To Be or Not to Be
When two farmworkers were killed this 
summer, Chavez called for a strengthening 
of farmworker and supporter commitment 
to non-violence, and organized a nation
wide boycott of lettuce, grapes and all 
grape products.
This leaves the struggle directly up to all 
Df us.
The massive American battle for Civil 
Rights is not over. We can win it only by 
educating ourselves as to the realities of 
this world and their implications, and 
acting accordingly. Education is not 
enough, and it is the easiest thing in the 
world to arouse the sympathy of most 
people for the farmworkers cause. There 
are only two possible stands on this issue: 
action, or the complacency which in
evitably licenses corruption.
I couldnt begin to recreate for you the 
pictures that migrant children draw, with 
empty one-room houses, colorless skies and 
heavy black crayon-lines running off the 
page .. . symbolic of the endless roads, 
from California to Maine; the roads they 
travel to put the vegetable on your kitchen 
table, the fruit in your refrigerator.
They travel those roads and live and die 
in the fields of innumerable states, inclu
ding Pennsylvania; at five and, if they sur
vive that long, at fifty.
But its questionable, now more than 
ever, that government which refuses to ac
comodate and act responsibly towards 
3,000,000+ of its citizens will take respon
sibility for the rest when it becomes incon
venient.
And it seems plausible that people who 
wont take responsibility for the civil rights 
of themselves and others are a glaring green 
light for a government to abdicate just that 
responsibility.
Si Se Puedes (Yes, We Can)
The struggle for justice has never been 
an easy one, and getting involved means 
sacrificeof time, of energy, of sleep and 
of money. There are many who think these 
are preferable to sacrificing humanity to a 
bomb.
Perhaps were wrong.
If you care to take the chance that 
were right, there are a number of ways 
you can support la Causa:
Boycott all non-UFW grapes and let
tuce, as well as California wines (notably 
Gallo and Guild).
Educate yourself to become an expert 
in the problem. Two of the best books to 
read are Peter Mathiessons Sal Si Puedes 
and Si Se Puedes. In Chavez words, 
Everyone is an organizer. Disseminate 
information about the struggle at every op
portunity to all who will listen.
Give a hand in the office at 1443 
Severn Street (Sq. Hill) and on the picket 
lines in Oakland or E. Liberty.
Get the information in to the class
room.
Go to Bakersfield, California in the 
spring, and offer your services at the UFW 
office or in the Huelga (strike) schools.
If you cant contribute your time, the 
farmworkers in Pittsburgh need people to 
help pay the monthly bills. They also need 
food and clothing.
This support is particularly crucial 
now, as grape and wine sales double in the 
Thanksgiving and Christmas season.
It would seem to be common sense and 
human responsibility, no matter what one 
studies or does for a living, to determine 
&*, teuth tfulcdeitttap fctotiwotge u>
out and act for justice in any situation 
where it is necessary. In the interests of the 
preservation of humanity, you voice is 
needed.
The essence of this struggle is perhaps 
best summed in the words of one of the 
students working on the Support Commit
tee, at C-MU, a Chicano himself. If I were 
ever to become president, he commented, 
the first thing I would would be to change 
the color of the White House to brown. 
Like the earth.
Under a government which imprisons 
any unjustly, the true place for a just man 
is also prison.  - Henry D. Thoreau
We are a war-torn world, and spinning 
towards the finish so quickly that we have 
little choice but to be as aware and 
effective as we each can. Even without the 
Israel-Arab conflict, the Chilean disgrace to 
humanity, the Portuguese blood-bath, 
Africas unalleviated famine, the con
tinuing war in Viet Nam, the highly un
spiritual religion in Ireland ... we would 
still know human injustice, and the 
personal, social and political prisons in 
every form that make injustice possible, 
particularly in our own country.
Compounding the difficulties, we are a 
leaderless nation.
The farmworkers have a leader. Working 
with them, I now feel I have one too. And 
I feel more strongly than ever that we have 
a strong humane force against injustice, in 
these people who know the shortcomings 
of this country so well, having suffered 
from them so much, and who have 
exhibited the courage and the strength to 
morally rise above those sufferings.
The farmworkers living in Pittsburgh are 
here until the victory, without choice. If 
they dont fight injustice now, the odds are 
that they will die in the fields not too long 
from now. But they struggle not only for 
themselves; they struggle for what we as a 
people and as universal citizens want and 
need so badly.
Perhaps the next few years, and con
ceivably this struggle, coupled with the 
positive aspects of 60s struggles. .. 
perhaps these next few years will deter
mine a victory for peace and human rights 
as massive as the struggle for these has 
been.
Perhaps it will determine an ineradicable 
legacy of human complacency.
With your support, we (farmworkers 
and supporters) believe that the former can 
be realized. We know that the political 
vacuum which some claim exists where 
there is nowhere to start, no oppor
tunity for actively participating in positive 
change, doesnt really exist. The farm
workers have won before, and instigated 
tremendous improvements in their own 
existence-primarily with the support of 
university members. There is every 
evidence that they will win again, but they 
need your support so that the suffering is 
not prolonged.
We need them and the answers and the 
strength that these citizens have arrived at.
To End the Endless Black Roads
I couldnt begin here to include all the 
facts, much less the sufferings, the warm 
humanity and cold horror behind this 
decisive struggle. I couldnt begin here to 
tell the stories of pain and sacrifice that, 
thread the history of a situation there is no 
reason for, save the economical one of 
aggrandizement for government and 
agribusiness officials alike, and the fulfill
ment for the club-wielders of a sadly 
a pwvdriid jmagt manhood. * - - ***  *

---------------------------------------------------

- ' 1  V . ... .. I .-IMI
Page 14THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Barbra Streisand has essentially played 
two characters in the course of her career: 
Fanny Brice and Barbra Streisand; but now 
with her most recent film. The Way We 
Were, she adds to that list a startling new 
and complete portrayal, that of Katie 
Morosky.
Beginning in the late thirties and follow
ing through to the McCarthy Era, the film 
chronicles an erratic love affair between 
Hubbell Gardiner, the American Dream Ideal, and Katie Morosky, the frumpy Jew
ish girl devoted to a staple diet of politics. 
Chance acquaintances in college, they 
move in worlds foreign to each other. But. 
proving the theory that opposites attract, a 
mutual respect flourishes. A sleepy, rather 
impersonal sexual encounter starts them 
off on the wrong foot and they lamely 
make their way through courtship, mar
riage. infidelity and divorce.
The film seems to 'have taken its direc
tion from Katie and HubbelFs romance. 
Uneven, but always interesting. The Way 
We Were possesses basic technical Haws 
which limit the realization of its potential 
The most obvious, singular handicap is the 
giant leap made form the birth of Katie's 
first baby to years after Hubbell and 
Katies divorce. The time lapse is too great; 
we care too much about the leading charac
ters to shirk off the intervening, emotioncharged years. Films dont score points by 
cheating their audiences.
A more subtle and significant disad
vantage is the lack of character motivation. 
Long after The Way We Were ends, we find 
ourselves at a loss to explain the inner 
machinery of almost any of the films pop
ulation. Whys far outweigh reasons. Why 
does Hubbell commit adultery? Why does 
the marriage work as long as it does? Why 
do they even get married? They are so ob
viously ill-suited to each other, not even 
love can translate Katie to Hubbell. She is 
hopelessly married to The Cause, to a 
world larger than herself. Hubbell is a lover 
of a world devoted solely to himself. They 
define their need for each other as love, 
and that is their tragedy. This false defini
tion crumbles under years of desperate ap
plication, and they are both left where 
they started; Hubbell reeling recklessly 
through a world of champagne and 
blondes, Katie standing on street corners, 
armed with panphlets imploring the nation 
to ban the bomb. Katie and Hubbell never 
master the art of marriage, never learn that 
a final, full extension of love requires the 
compromise of small freedoms. And so, 
like unmatched pieces to a puzzle, they 
never lock, never fit together properly. But 
why not? Are they both mindlessly selfisl 
or merely immature?
Unfortunately, author Arthur Laurents 
rarely dishes up clues, and his hesitancy to 
do so is complimented by Sydney Pollocks 
ambiguous direction. Again, the hazy 
material is obviously the root of the prob
lem. One only has to see Pollocks stun
ning, incisive They Shoot Horses, Dont 
They to realize the man is a truly gifted
director with a keen insight into human 
relationships. The only major feat evident 
in both films is his ability to perfect an 
evocation of a past era.
In terms of an artists media, if Katie 
and Hubbell are watercolored, the entire 
supporting cast would be rushed carica
tures in pen-and-ink. Robert Redford 
achieves some depth, but more often than 
not, the continuous absence of solid moti
vation makes him appear to be giving a 
shallow and uncomfortable performance.
As if without really trying, Barbra takes 
possession of the film. Her portrayal is 
intensely human; even when there is no 
motivation for an action, her conviction 
coerces us to believe. All the films faults 
seem to yield to her brilliance. The Way We 
Were finally establishes Barbra as an 
actress; intelligent, tender, electric. Iron
ically, Barbra has never looked uglier. Her 
make-up man should be added to the FBIs 
list of Ten Most Dangerous Men. The nose 
is shadowed improperly, the lips too pierc
ing a red. Anyone who has seen On A Clear 
Day You Can See Forever bears witness to 
Barbras beauty and can only mourn her 
present appearance.
Equally sorrowful is the amateurish, bla
tantly awful editing by Margaret Booth. 
The film looks as if it were spliced by a 
near-sighted executioner. Still, I recom
mend The Way We Were to you, primarily 
on the merits of Barbra Streisands Oscar
worthy performance. Besides, the ending is 
touching and invitingly tearful. So, if 
youre looking for a good cry and a great 
performance, see The Way We Were.
P.S. Tont believe Variety; the shlocky 
title song, sung by Barbra, isnt all that 
bad.
Special Performance
On December 5, in connection with the 
Poetry Forum, Tom Sawyer (the actor), 
will present a program entitled The State 
of Man, based on selected readings from 
the works of Shakespeare. The content of 
the program is taken from the plays, 
sonnets, and poems, and is divided into 
three parts: youth, maturity, and old age 
and death. The State of Man was originally 
created by Sir John Gielgud, presented 
on Broadway as Ages of Man. The perform
ance is at 8:15, and tickets are $3.00, 
available at the department stores, Pitt 
Student Union and at the Forum office 
down at the library. The show is directed 
by Anthony Perkins, everybodys favorite 
psycho.
If you think you dont need these Events 
because youre leaving in about an hour 
and a half, note that they apply to after 
the vacation as well.
Bargains
The Arts and Crafts Center of Pittsburgh 
will sponsor a Christmas Sale from 
November 23 until Christmas Eve. The 
Center is located on the corner of Fifth 
and Shady Avenues.
Chinese Theatre
The National Chinese Opera Theatre from 
the Republic of China will perform at 
Heinz Hall on Thursday, November 29 at 
8:30 p.m. The N.C.O.T. is like nothing 
youve ever seen, involving many theatrical 
artsmusic, dialogue, mime, and ex
quisitely elaborate costuming. There will 
be a special student discount offered. Call 
the box office at 281-8185.
Soviet Youth Exhibit
There is an exhibit of painting, sculpture, 
toys and crafts done by Soviet youth right 
now at the Civic Arena. It will run until 
December 23, and comes direct to us from 
Washington, D.C. Call the Civic Arena at 
391-4545 for more information.
Benny Goodman
The Master of the Clarinet will be 
performing at Heinz Hall with his sextet 
tomorrow night, Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. 
If youve ever heard a recording of the Big 
Carnegie Hall Jazz Concert of 1938, youll 
know what its all about.
Th National Chinese Opera Theatre at Heinz Hall
College Concert
The Carnegie-Mellon Orchestra will be 
performing an evening entitled Opera 
Preludes on Tuesday, November 27 at 8:00 
p.m. at Exhibition Hall in the Fine Arts 
building. Admission for students is 
absolutely free.
Prisoner
The next touring company to hit the 
Nixon Theatre will be that of Neil Simons 
comedy The Prisoner of Second Avenue, to 
star Shelley Berman and Mimi Hines, 
running through the week of December 3. 
Call the Nixon box office at 281-6773 for 
further information.
Cartoon Festival
1. There will be a complete cartoon festival 
at Pitts student ballroom on Tuesday and 
Wednesday, November 27 and 28, in
cluding displays and demonstrations by 
Gahan Wilson of National Lampoon, Stan 
Lee of all the Marvel comics, and John 
Johns of the Press. At noon on Tuesday 
there will be segments shown from 
Fantasia, and at 8:30 p.m. that evening, a 
showing of The Point. Lectures and 
demonstrations will be taking place all day 
both days.
2. Only to be topped by a showing of The 
Betty Boop Scandals of 1974 direct from 
N.Y.C. at the Guild Theatre during the 
week of the 21st. These scandals include 
many, many of the Best of the Boop.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973 Page 15
by Susan N. Klein
There are times when I am convinced 
that I was born forty years too late. One 
such time was last week at a luncheon at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
It was like an institutional Last Supper, 
if you can imagine that. The Playhouse has 
no money and they are about to embark 
upon publicity finance campaign, so they 
had invited a number of people from the 
Media and the press who they were going 
to wine and dine in exchange for some PR. 
It was all in the best tradition of divine 
theatrical decadence. The Playhouse people 
were all decked out in sharp successful 
business-man finery, with million-dollar 
smiles plastered on their faces while they 
explained how they were over 100 grand in 
debt. The Media people were all slick and 
smiling and distinguished-looking, and they 
are all old chums and call each other by 
their first names. Hi Bob, Hi Jim, Hi Fred. 
If they dont know you, theres a lot more 
added dazzle along with some very Ted 
Baxter (from the Mary Tyler Moore Show) 
polish. The resonant TV voice introduc
tion, Hi, Im Bob Darling, WXYZ, then a 
vise-like handshake to let you know how 
butch they are.
So this very charming group of people, 
along with myself and two former 
TARTAN Editors-in-Chief named Stephen, 
were ushered into the lush Lillian Russell 
Room downstairs underneath the theatre. 
The Lillian Russell Room has flocked wall
paper on three walls, and on the fourth 
wall theres an enormous A1 Hirshfeld mur
al that will make your eyes bug out of your 
head trying to find.all the hidden Ninas. It 
was a mural of all the luminaries of the 
American Theatre hey-day in the 1920s 
and 1930s. There were the Marx Brothers 
and Helen Hayes and George S. Kaufman 
and Robert Benchley and Dorothy Parker 
and in the background Franklin P. Adams. 
The mural might have been at the Algon
quin Round Table, but it didnt have to be. 
If the Round Table could have heard what 
went on in the Lillian Russell Room that 
Thursday, it would have made them very 
sad, but their irreverance would have made 
them laugh at it all.
Charley Warner, the head charming 
person and Board Member, conducted the 
meeting, answering questions fired by the 
guests.
Why dbesnt the Playhouse just close 
for a year?
Excellent question. Um. .
Do the people of Pittsburgh even want 
theatre?
Excellent question. Um... Actually, 
Warner seemed very competent and 
capable of giving astute and logical answers 
to the questions. He talked about responsi
bility; the responsibility of the Playhouse 
to provide good theatre to the people, and 
in turn the peoples responsibility to buy 
subscriptions. The Playhouse wants to sell
6,000 to 8,000 subscriptions, and if they 
dont, its simply a matter of closing 
forever.
The Playhouse used to be affiliated with 
Point Park College for the past ten years. 
Now that the connection has been severed, 
the Playhouse has been left to flounder for 
itself. Theyve dispensed with importing 
stars for guest roles. (That went over 
big-Sylvia Miles in Virginia Woolf)- Instead
they have practically doubled their resident 
Equity company to about 12, and have 
switched to a League of Resident Theatres 
Equity contract as opposed to the Stock 
Company contract they had been working 
under. The L.O.R.T. Company contract 
forces them to pay higher salaries.
Theres a special Student and Senior Cit
izen rate of $1 for matinees, which to me is 
positively mind-boggling. To not take ad
vantage of that would be shameful. In ad
dition, there will probably be special stu
dent subscription rates and a Student Rush 
policy at night.
Charley then went over the plays of the 
season, explaining how fulfilling these 
plays were to the needs of Pittsburghs 
theatre audience. He also kept mentioning 
the Official Playhouse villian: Bill Ball and 
his A.C.T. company who shocked the mon
ocles off every matinee lady a few years 
ago. Ball, Charley said, was not taking into 
account the tastes of the audience. He was 
irresponsible. (Charley did not mention 
that A.C.T. is now the most successful 
resident or repertory company in 
America.)
The season will begin with One Flew 
Over the Cukoos Nest, followed by Thor
ton Wilders Our Town, George Feydeaus 
A Flea in Her Ear, John Guares House of 
Blue Leaves, Millers The Crucible,
Midler Redux
by Gary Jay Bronheim
 ... I was in Pittsburgh once for six 
weeks, and thats a long time to do 
without (sex) .. . Youve got to have 
FRIENDS...
Richard Nixon has a part of Deep 
Throat that hes seen ten or twelve times, 
he is trying to get it down Pat.
... With such tackiness as only the 
Divine Miss M possesses, the Pittsburgh Air 
Pollution Index reached a new high Sunday 
night as Bette Middler again filled the air 
with her worst (best) trash.
The jet set, the citys best dressed crowd 
packed the Syria Mosque with the flashiest 
outfits seen in Pittsburgh since her last 
appearance here.
Starved for entertainment the 
audience thrilled to Bette and her low 
rent babies, the Harlettes in their low-cut 
black and gold silk sequined boobshaking 
outfits. After her grand entrance in a more 
than appealing dress with a three-foot red 
fluffly head piece, the crowd settled down 
to the magic of her music, coupled with 
some very suggestive put downs... and 
they ate it up.
I am trash, and I love it.
She especially attacked Nixon, and 
challenged our prospective Vice-President 
with a sharp: Did you ever have a Ford 
that didnt break down?
And the music was mesmerizing. 
Running and shaking up, down, and across 
the stage, the group hit the audience with 
such Hubba-Hubba-Hot-Shit low-rent 
retro Rock and Roll numbers as Friends, 
Delta Dawn, Am I Blue% a medley of Up
wrapping up with the Rodgers and Hart 
musical The Boys From Syracuse. I think 
thats a very nice season. Im afraid thats 
because my taste has out of necessity run 
to the conservative and traditional. I wasnt 
around for the original productions of 
those pre-WW II classics, and I would like 
to have been, especially after looking at 
that Hirshfeld mural, practically mesmer
ized. It was just one of those, Oh, if I was 
only alive then days. The come-and-go 
blues.
But that season isnt going to appeal to 
very many of the hundreds of students the 
Playhouse hopes to nab as subscribers. I 
also dont think it will be all that exciting 
to the theatre matrons and patrons from the 
Hills or wherever they come from. If Char
ley and his Charmers were really smart, 
theyd give up and open a Dinner Theatre. 
Theatre people often have trouble dealing 
with reality. A few of them are still living 
forty years ago.
There is a very fine book published 
annually by the International Theatre 
Institute of the United States which is 
simply entitled Theatre. The fifth volume 
in this series has recently been published, 
and is available now in the book store. In 
addition to covering virtually every aspect 
of the American Theatre scene, the book 
offers a handsomely designed collection of 
photographs and Hirschfeld sketches. And 
in addition to essays by such writers as 
Clive Barnes and Martin Gottfried, this
Town, Dont Say Nuthin Bad About My 
Baby, and Da Do Ron Ron, and a mellow 
version of I Shall Be Released from her 
soon to be released second album . . . 
Applause.
After a fifteen minute fashion show 
commonly called intermission, Barry 
Manilow, the Maestro, hit the black and 
white keys performing three original 
numbers, while the Harlettes in African 
gowns did background harmony. A quick 
pull on a zipper, and the Harlettes now 
wore Howard-Johnson type pink dayglow 
waitress outfits, as they did their rendition 
of Youre Out of the Woods from Wizard 
of Oz.
After a second grand entrance in an 
even flashier sequined gown, the group 
started with Lullaby of Broadway. In her 
fast-moving Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy, the 
girls ended the number by pulling apart 
their dresses revealing American flags. 
Eventually the crew shed their dresses 
leaving purple silk dresses with black 
lace trim, and card suit symbols by their
volume, covering the 71-72 season, 
includes a nice article on the theatre of 
Middle America by the chairman of our 
very own Drama Department-Earle R. 
Gister.
Scotch N Soda
by Paul Szauter
Scotch n Soda, C-MUs non-drama 
department theatre group, will present 
Woodwind on December 4,5,6,and 7. 
This is the first fall production in the 35 
year history of the club. The production is 
being done on the profit from last springs 
Lord Have Mercy and Old Fashioned 
Walk.
Woodwind is the story of Robin 
Hood, told from the point of view of Allan 
a Dale, a minstrel in the outlaws band. 
Woodwind was adapted from a rock 
opera called Reach Out and Take it by 
John Grefenstette and Bruce Murray. To 
expand the show to its present form, Mark 
Yochum and John Grefenstette wrote 
dialog, verse, and new lyrics. Bruce Murray 
adapted the music to a larger orchestra.
Rehearsals have run since late 
September. The success of this production 
may make a Scotch N Soda fall show an 
annual event.
hearts.
Second half numbers included Hello in 
There, Leader of the Pack, a medley of Do 
You Love Me, and Do You Wanna Dance, 
and Chapel of Love in more than its en
tirety, ending with Friends.
Between songs she scraped the barrel 
hitting below the belt--she said that the 
problem with the current energy crisis was 
a matter of energy that wasnt being put in 
the right places.
If Richard Nixon would do to Pat 
what he did to the country, he would end 
the energy crisis.
Yes she really got them moving. The 
Divine Miss M is the only performer I have 
seen that can get the top balcony of the 
Mosque on their feet clapping and swaying 
to her songs.
Onward and upward for her: a three 
week performance in New York which had
o be extended and was sold out 
immediately. The cities on her tours will 
never be the same.
Film Arts Society
presents
THE DECAMERON
Thursday 4-.30 7 9:30
November 29 * Admissiorv. 75<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
by Cyndy Schmidt 
We Aim to Please is the title of the 
current show at the C-MU Student Gallery. 
And judging from the results during the 
initial half hour of the show, the gallery 
directors were right on target.
Everything in the show is priced below 
SI00. This everything includes paintings, 
drawings, prints and the first crafts 
exhibited this semester. The crafts were 
selling like the proverbial hotcakes with 
prints a close second.
This show defies criticism of any kind;
theres a diversity of media that 
makes comparisons foolish, and everything 
was exhibited purely for the purpose of 
selling it. The gallery directors decided to 
ambush the Christmas buying season by 
holding the usual Christmas Bazaar under 
an alias before the rush.
Theres a great variety of artworks, 
something for anyone and almost everyone 
was buying something. If youd like an 
original artwork by a C-MU student (and 
maybe a potential Warhol) the Gallery is 
the place to get it. Go soon, because there 
wont be too many things priced within the 
student budget left, like Phillips textiles, 
or Booths prints, or Sussmans ceramics, 
Hallams prints, Debarros glass, or Wild 
drawings . . .the big bite
JL JL A. X A
Debarros' glass at the C-MU Student's GalleryPhoto by Werne
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Once the president was going to go to 
Peking and I thought it would be a fine 
idea for him to take me along, so I wrote 
him a letter with elaborate introductions. I 
told him he should take me to Peking 
because I am a woman and a minority and 
a youth and it was an election year. I told 
him it would show he had a big heart. The 
letter went on to remind him that you 
cant get to China on a slow boat and that 
Gong Ho Fat Choy means Happy New 
Year. (The year Nixon went to China it 
was the Year of the Rat.) I got a letter 
back saying that the president was sorry 
but there was no room for me on this trip. 
I wrote back telling them Id be glad to go 
to Moscow with him instead, but somehow 
1 never left Brooklyn. Finally, because 
eating is the best revenge, I began to eat 
Chinese food in massive quantities.
Once I went to a Szechuan restaurant 
where we were served Chinese pancakes. 
The not-so-worldly gentleman I was with 
assumed they were steaming washclothes 
cause the food was greasy and he began to 
wipe his hands on them when a smiling 
Mandarin man approached and explained 
what they were.
At the Peking Royal Kitchen (Murray 
Avenue in Squirrel Hill) you can have 
Chinese pancakes. They are a thin dough 
that is folded into four sections and open
Scotch 'N Soda
presents
Auditions for Scotch 'N'
Soda's spring show, "Of The 
Valley", will be held in room 46 of Skibo:
Friday Nov 30 4:30 - 7:30
Saturday Dec 1 1-4
Sunday Dec 2 1-4
Singers, dancers, and actors of 
any experience are needed. Bring 
sheet music if posssible . For ' 
more information call 421-2834.
Paul Szauter
Publicity
682-3529
December 4,5,6,7 
8 PM in Skibo Ballroom
Tkkets $1.25 in Baker Hah 
or at the door.
into a large circle. Its served with anything 
that can easily be molded, in this case 
Mooh Su chicken, which is chicken pieces, 
bamboo shoots, mushroomsthe usual 
assortment of Chinese vegetables. You 
open the pancake and spoon whatever 
youve got into the center and then roll it 
up. The same principle as an egg roll. Its 
real distracting and you cant tell how good 
it is/was cause youre so pre-occupied 
playing with the food. Inevitably all sorts 
of grease rolls out of the untied end of the 
pancake down your arm and all over your 
clothing. Such has been the case the few 
times Ive eaten them. All in the same, the 
Mooh Su chicken at the Peking Royal 
Kitchen is cooked in just a bit too much oil 
but theres plenty of chicken and can be 
eaten without being rolled. It only costs 
$2.95 and $3.95 for an entire dinner which 
is soup, appetizer, entree and desserta 
bargain. If you call them in advance and 
say you are coming in a group of six or 
more people they will make a special nine 
course house dinner that costs $7.50 per 
person.
As far as their soup goes, they have the 
best egg drop Ive ever tasted. Its brown 
and thick and if you werent too hungry it 
could probably pass as a small meal. The 
egg roll was burnt on the outside but had a 
lot of bean sprouts inside. I had an 
appetizer called a Thousand Year Golden 
Crown. Its a fresh egg souffled into small 
rectangles with pieces of a thousand year 
old egg inside. The waiter said that they 
werent 1000 years old but maybe a year 
and are preserved in special yellow dirt to 
make them black and perfectly Chinese 
rather than rotten. Theyre real good and 
have the flavor of a chicken liver but the 
texture of a hard-boiled egg. The Golden 
Crown is two bucks for four rectangles. 
Thats the only thing thats overpriced 
although its probably the special dirt that 
makes the price so high.
Eating at the Peking Royal Kitchen is 
like eating at home. Its comfortable and 
friendlythe waiter will tell you the entire 
history of Mandarin cuisine if you are 
inquisitive enough. Its worth the trip cause 
the food is all fresh and theres no 
monosodium glutamate taste. (2018 
Murray Avenue, at Beacon)
A farmer in Kinkelbos district in Port 
Elizabeth South Africa didnt know what 
killed his ailing ox. He cut open the 
animals stomach and found several pairs of 
panty hose in plastic wrappers.
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
4415 FIFTH AVE. 
683-8040
Our Low Copy Prices Are:
1 thru 15 5cents/copy 
16 thru 100 3cents/copy 
101 and up 2cents/copy 
EXPERT TYPING 
All done on IBM Selectrics 
Reports, term papers, thesis, 
dissertations.
LOW PRICES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973Page 17
It Happened One Night
by Lester Nathan
Another Friday approached and I 
wanted something different, something off 
campus. A busy week was over, four tests 
and one typed papers worth. Live enter
tainment might be nice. An idea came to 
mind.
As advertising manager, I had handled 
an ad for a Southern music concert at the 
Syria Mosque. The Nashville Sound is 
not my favorite kind of music, but some 
people I know were enthusiastic about it 
and said it really was worth getting into. I 
decided to go to the concert out of 
curiosity.
I had a glimpse of things to come when 
I bought the ticket at Skibo. No one knew 
about the concert until I showed them the 
ad.
The Mosque was sparsely filled at best. 
The second balcony was void, the first 
balcony was 5 to 10 percent full, and the 
main floor 40 to 50 percent full. It was 
obviously not a rousing box office success.
Friday nights performers featured the 
Country Cavaleers, Don Gibson, Skeeter 
Davis, Barbara Mandrell and Bill Currie.
Currie was introduced and appeared in 
one more of his flashy outfits. Bill seemed 
to have had two things on his mind that 
night; he wanted to tell how much he hates 
his divorced wife (and her mother) and 
wanted to make as much fun of Bob 
Kudzma, the KDKA-TV weather fore
caster, as he could. Currie really heaped it on 
Kudzma and also, KDKAs management. 
He disclosed, whether its true I dont 
know, that he Bill Currie, was a former 
mental patient.
After the Mouth of the South, the 
musical began. Out came two dudes 
dressed in a set of wild outfits. They 
looked like twins, except the outfit colors 
were different. One had a red cowboy hat, 
gold shirt, glittering blue poncho and pants
running across it. The other guy was blue 
and silver instead of red and gold and one 
stripe crossed the guitar, divided evenly 
into red, white and blue parts with stars in 
each sector. The Country Cavaleers have 
two accompanists on guitar and a female 
drummer. The show started moving.
They had played three or four songs and 
I was still trying to decide whether the 
product was any better than the wrapper. 
Then, something very strange happened. 
The emcee crossed the stage behind the 
performers in full view of the audience. He 
came to the left side and turned around 
and waited for the Cavaleers to finish their 
number. He walked up behind them, 
whispered something in their ears, and 
took a microphone.
Ive got some bad news to announce 
folks. He then told us the concert must 
stop because the promoter, upon seeing the 
advance ticket sales, grabbed the little 
money there was and ran. Theres no 
payola, so most of the performers cant 
perform because their agency wont let 
them.
No one in the audience left his seat, 
including me. Were all too stunned to just 
stand up and go. Many people had made an 
effort to come, plus paying the usual Syria 
Mosque prices for the tickets.
 And then, something nice occured. 
Barbara Mandrells manager-accompanist 
came rushing on stage, declaring that Miss 
Mandrell doesnt belong to the same 
agency as the other performers. Th^y came 
to perform, we had come to see them and 
thus, we deserved a little more than what 
we got. Barbara Mandrell came running on 
stage. The three accompanists had 
remained on-stage and she sang four 
numbers, knowing that shed get nothing 
for it. They received a standing ovation at 
the end and they deserved it, too.
As I walked away from the Mosque, I 
thought about the meaning of the event. 
Although the same thing can have different 
meanings to different people, I realized 
what it meant to me. I had witnessed 
everything that I had seen go wrong at 
CMU in one evening. The Syria Mosque 
had been unlucky. Not enough tickets were 
sold. The promoter ran away, similar to 
what the Byrds did to the AB. And the 
audience stayed in their seats, reminding 
me of the STAG-Old Time movies in 
September. Yes, Friday night was 
different; but it was also more of the same.
by George Bias
After a fairly long break between 
albums-*about three years, Linda Ronstadt 
has finally gotten around to recording a 
new one entitled Dont Cry Now. One 
reason for the long delay between records 
may be that she has switched from the 
Capitol label to that os Asylum. This 
change will probably enable her to move 
on to bigger and better things in the future.
Linda Ronstadt has to be the master of 
the slow country ballad. Her first single, 
Long, Long, Time, showed her ability to 
handle these slow songs very impressively, 
and she does better with Love Has No
Pride from the new album. Although 
slightly reminiscent of Bonnie Raitt, Linda 
Ronstadt adds a new dimension of emotion 
of which Bonnie Raitt seems incapable.
Linda Ronstadt, it should be 
remembered, is not a song writer, she is a 
singer. Many of the songs on the new 
album were written and performed by 
various artists, yet the performances on 
Dont Cry Now are not copies, each one 
has something new to offer. Examples 
include Neil Youngs Tell Me Why, and 
Rick Roberts Colorado. These songs, 
although written in the rock image of 
country music, never attained the true 
Nashville sound until Linda Ronstadt sang 
them. She also recorded Sail Away, the 
Randy Newman classic; her performance is 
reasonably good except for the background 
vocals which are a bit too Motownish for 
the song.
Some have said that Linda Ronstadt is a 
loser, but it seems that this new album will 
change that opinion of her. Dont Cry 
Now, appears to be another in the series of 
albums which are establishing the female 
vocalist as competent an artist as the male.
Top lO Pop Albums 
(From Billboard)
1. Goodbye Ye'llow Brick Road-Elton 
John
2. The Who-Quadrophenia
3. Ringo-Ringo Starr
4. Goats Head Soup - Rolling Stones
5. Dont Mess Around with Jim-Jim Croce
6. Jonathan Livingston Seagull-Neil 
Diamond
7. Brothers and Sisters-Allman Brothers 
Band
8. Life and Times-Jim Croce
9. The Joker-Steve Miller
10. Los Cochinos-Cheech and Chong

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
SPORTS
GRAND FINALE 
FOR TARTAN GRIDDERS
Photo by Fred Shamlian
by Jim Litsas
The C-MU Tartans came from behind to 
edge out the Hiram College Terriers in one 
of the most exciting PAC games of the 
year, by a score of 14-13. The victory 
capped one of the most successful footbali 
seasons that the Tartans have had under 
Coach Joe Gasparella, leaving them with a
5-3 record overall, and tied for fourth place 
in the PAC.
A fairly large crowd came out to Tech 
Field to watch the Tartans last football 
game of the season, only to have the 
Terriers Bill Hill run for 46 yards on the 
first offensive play of the game. TheTartan 
defense fortunately held, and the Terriers 
35 yard field goal attempt was no good.
The game was quite evenly matched and 
scoreless until less than a minute was left in 
the first half and the Tartans were forced 
to punt from deep in their territory. 
Terrier Freshman Bob Forms led the strong 
rush put on the Tartans Ted Harhai (who 
played with a broken hand) and blocked 
the C-MU punt. The ball was pounced 
upon at the about the four yard line by a 
mass of white Terrier jerseys, and was 
apparently kicked into the endzone by 
accident. Tom Hehmeyer fell upon the ball 
to score a touchdown for the Terriers.
The Tartans received the second half 
kickoff looking to quickly recover from 
their 7-0 deficit. After the ball quickly 
exchanged hands twice, the Tartans were 
on their own 27 yard line. Brian Carlock 
and Bob Curtis led the Tartans to the 
Terrier five yard line, where Freshman Pat 
Counihan, who had scored the only Tartan 
touchdown in last weeks game against 
Thiel, did the honors once again, receiving 
a five yard Jay Duquette pass for the 
Tartans first score.
The Tartan defensive line began to work 
on Hirams quarterback, Stu Ulrich. The 
Tartans consistently put on a strong rush, 
but Ulrich often managed to run out of the 
pocket and avoid tackle to gain the big 
yardage needed for a Terrier first down. 
Hirams Don Raw finished off the Terriers
shaky drive with a 15-yard TD reception. 
The breaks began to even themselves out, 
however, and the very important pointafter-touchdown was missed, leaving Hiram 
with a precarious 13-7 lead.
The Tartans had a big break late in the 
game when Hirams punter fumbled the 
fourth down snap from center, hanging on 
to the ball, but leaving the Tartans only 22 
yards from the Hiram endzone. Quite 
appropriatelely, Brian Carlock finished the 
last Tartan drive of the last game of his 
impressive four year stay at CarnegieMellon with a 10 yard TD reception from 
Jay Duquette Though Carlock has averaged 
more than five TD receptions per year in 
the past three years, he had none this 
season coming into Saturdays game. His 
first TD reception of the year couldnt 
have come at a better time.
A Tartan win should have been secure 
when freshman Tom McMeekin kicked his 
second extra point of the game, giving 
C-MU a 14-13 lead. Somehow, the Terriers 
Bill Hill, who had made the big 46 yard run 
on the first play of the game, avoided six 
tackles to bring the Terriers to the C-MU 
16 yard line. Three plays later, the ball was 
on the 8 and Hirams field goal kicker 
Frank Tokash came off the sidelines to try 
and kick the Terriers to their last victory of 
the season. As the crowd held its breath, 
the ball sailed up to the goal posts, and 
passed two feet too far to the right. As the 
referee signalled no good, the Tartans went 
wild.
Seniors John Radic, Brian Carlock and 
John Moore will be missed next year. Ra
dic was injured in the game against Thiel 
two weeks ago, and was unable to play 
Saturday. John has been a tremendous as
set this year, however, scoring three TDs 
in our Homecoming game, and five all year. 
Carlock has been the pass receiver in C-MU 
history, with 148 receptions for 2256 
yards and 17 TDs. Certainly Bill Vukoder, 
Bob Scott, Ron Shinault, and Mike 
Bralkowski will be sorely missed in the 
Tartans defense. The Tartans should, how
ever, do even better next year than this 
years strong, young team did.
Tackle Jim Stupar (77) and senior guard
John Moore (62).
Tartan Skaters 
Win In Shutout
by Mary Kay Burak
The Tartans shut out St. Vincents, 2-0, 
in their first league hockey game of the 
73-74 season, Sunday, Nov. 11, at Kirk 
Nevin Arena in Greensburg.
Roger Peterson scored both goals, un
assisted, one in the second and one in the 
third period. The third period goal was 
scored on an open net, after St. Vincents 
pulled their goalie in a last-minute effort to 
tie up the game. After this goal, they 
decided maybe they had better keep their 
goalie in, but by then the Tartans had them 
beaten.
St. Vincents blew their chance to tie 
the game at 1-1 with a similar open-net 
goal earlier in the third period. Goalie Jeff 
Hart left the C-MU net to block a shot; St. 
Vincents recovered the puck and shot 
before he could get back into position. To 
the surprise of team and spectators alike,
Soccer MVP, 
Captains Named
The C-MU soccer team announced its 
Most Valuable Player for 1973 and next 
seasons captains.
Fullback Mike Smith, who scored de
pendably on penalty kicks in addition to 
his defensive contributions, was named the 
Tartans MVP for the second consecutive 
year.
Linemen Dave Fry and Dan Streyle, 
who will both be seniors, are next years 
co-captains.
the St. Vincents shot went wide by a good 
3 feet.
Despite this incredible stroke of luck for 
C-MU, St. Vincents played a fast, hardchecking game. But superior skating by the 
Tartans confined most of the action to St. 
Vincents defensive zone. Official statistics 
gave C-MU 20 shots on goal to St. 
Vincents 15.
Following a Nov. 7 defeat by Indiana, 
this shutout marked St. Vincents second 
loss this season. The second C-MU league 
game comes up on Dec. 2 against 
Duquesne, 7 p.m. at the Civic Arena. The 
same ticket admits the bearer to the 9 
oclock Pitt-Indiana game; last year both 
were teams to beat. So it should be an 
exciting double-header. Individual tickets 
and season passes can be obtained at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Finally, a word of correction to the 
Nov. 6 TARTAN story: C-MU skaters 
defeated Penn State Main Campus on Oct. 
28, not Penn State McKeesport, as the 
article claimed.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
Pat Counihan powers for a short again. Photo by Fred Shamlian

---------------------------------------------------

? ,n n{ - ? i  -wftiiiRi an i rs
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 20, 1973Page 19
Two Winter Sports 
Hold ScrimmagesFrom The Bottom 
To The Top?
Two Carnegie-Mellon winter sports 
teams held scrimmages over last week.
The basketball team played Point Park 
College on Sa'iurday. Although the Tartans 
lost, Coach Rudy Yaksich thought, they 
look pretty good. Freshman forward, 
Greg Chambers was singled out as having 
done an especially good job.
California came to CMU on Wednesday 
night to give the Tartan swim team some 
practice. No scoring as such was kept.
Coach Steve Fagan commented on last
weeks article concerning the swimming 
team, stating that only the proximity of his 
office, and therefore that of his telephone 
to the swimming pool keeps him from 
being with the team the whole time.
Theyre my favorite team, said Fagan. 
Im certainly concerned with whether 
they do everything I tell them to. But, 
when youre just across the hall from your 
office, sometimes its awfully hard not to 
get distracted.
SPORTS LIBERATED
by Mary Jo Chabala
The C-MU womensintercollegiate 
volleyball team was hostess to a tri-volley
ball meet on Friday, November 9. The two 
schools invited were Geneva and California 
State colleges. The C-MU first team won 
the meet. The scoring was as follows: CMU 
I over Geneva I 15-10, 15-6; CMU I over 
CSC I 15-9, 15-3; CSC I over Geneva I 
15-9, 10-15,15-6; Geneva II over CMU II
6-15, 18-16, 15-12; CMU II over CSC II 
15-9, 15-3; Geneva II over CSC II 15-10, 
15-8. The C-MU women proved to be in 
top form during this meet, and they are 
improving greatly with each match.
Womens basketball intramurals are 
under way. The teams formed include: Cleo 
and the Anchor Asses, Dawgs, EZBO, 
Faculty-Grads, Kappa Klutzes, and Kappa 1 
Sigma Sisters. There has been only one 
game thus far. Its score: Kappa Sigma 
Sisters over Faculty-Grads, 16-_j4
by Mike Pochan
In an effort to upgrade C-MUs 
floundering basketball program, the 
athletic department and Coach Rudy 
Yaksich recruited 12 promising freshmen 
basketball players for the 72-73 season. 
Even though no monetary offers could be 
made to the players, the total amount of 
talent acquired is quite impressive.
Leading the pack percent age-wise is 
Gregory Chambers of Schenley High in 
Pittsburgh with a 74% average from the 
field. Chambers, a member of the 1970-71 
State Championship team, also averaged 10 
points per game. He stands 63 tall.
High scorer of the group is Rich Klein 
(6-7) of Bethel High, Bethel Park Pa. Rich, 
a member of the All-Section team in the 
WPIAL, averaged 18 ppg and 12 rebounds.
Clyde Carter (6-6), out of Central High 
in Philadelphia, sunk 17.4 ppg and finished 
with a 58% shooting average.
Gerald Coates (6-1), also out of 
Philadelphias Central High, had a 49% 
average with 15 points per game.
William Mark James (6-7), the third 
player from Central, hit for 10 points each
game to maintain a 48% average.
Out of Wintersville High in Steubenville, 
Ohio comes Chuck DAngelo (6-1). 
DAngelo shoots with a 45% average and 
16.3 ppg. He made the All-District first 
team and received honorable mention in 
All-State voting.
The tall man of the team is Paul 
Hamerly of Penn Hills High, Pittsburgh. He 
towers at 6 feet 8 inches, holding a 45% 
shooting average. He played for the WPIAL 
Section 8 champs two years in a row.
The small man is Harold Hotimsky (5-9) 
of Rayen High in Youngstown, Ohio. 
Harold was playmaker for his team and 
maintained a 45% shooting average.
Dan Jason (6-4) of Ursuline High in 
Youngstown was a starter on the team that 
became Steel Valley League champions. 
Jason had 9 ppg for a 40% average.
Mark Vranderic (6-3) of John Marshall 
High in Cleveland held a 45% average.
Also playing are Brad Punko (6-3) from 
Minnesota and Gary Bonn (6-3) of 
Massachusetts, but no information is 
available on them.
The talent is there. The coaching is 
there. Now how about a PAC title?
POWER SHORTAGE 
IN THE U.S.?
Nuclear power may be the answer. 
If you are in engineering, math or 
physics you can get in one the 
development and expansion of 
this field. The U.S. Navy can train 
you as an officer in nuclear 
reactors. Excellent salary, 
benefits, and retirement. For de
tails call 644-5889 or 644-5897.
Interested in 
Graduate Study in
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
HOSPITAL & HEALTH 
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
See us December 3rd 
at Bureau of Placements
for information about 
our two-year Masters 
degree programs at 
the Cornell University
Dear Akadama Mama
Mamas
Love Potions.
Dear Akadama Mama:
Have you any interest in 
Women's Lib? %
President, Showgirls Lib, 
Las Vegas
Dear Ms. President:
Im more interested in Mamas 
Lib and Mama feels if you do right 
by your Daddy, hell do right by you. 
Now my Daddy, I treat him right. 
When he comes dragging home at 
night I fluff up his ego. Slip off his 
shoes. Hand him his pipe. And head 
for the Akadama wine. Forget those 
tooty-fruity wines. Theyre for boys, 
not for my Old Man. So I get out my 
Akadama recipe card and mix him 
one of my love potions. Youd be sur
prised how fine a Saturday can be 
when you start it off with Akadama 
Red and orange juice. And the sec
ond best way I know to end the day 
is with Akadama Red and cham
pagne. So if you want my advice, Ms.
Imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. California
President, just keep passing that 
Akadama. Take it from Mama. 
FAME & FORTUNATE.
Lately a lot of Akadama fans 
have been sending me their favorite 
recipes. Fortunately theres enough 
roomleft in this w eeks column to 
pass some of them on 
to you.
Akadama Red and bitter lemon tonic.
Akadama Red with 
apple juice.
Akadama Red 
with ginger ale.
Akadama Red 
and tonic water.
Akadama Red 
with cream soda.
Akadama Red
and lemonade. j j
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
BUSINESS AND PUBLIC 
ADMINISTRATION
Contact your placement 
office for exact times

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20THE TARTANTuesday, November 20, 1973
Officiating For Fun 
And Profit
From The 
Bookshelf
by Mike Pochan
Collegiate football referees hold an 
interesting and exciting position, for they 
are paid to observe the nations top college 
players in action from the best seats in 
the house. But, the referees job is not all 
fun and games; they have requirements 
they must fulfill and dangers they must 
face.
The typical collegiate official must 
know the rule book inside and out. He 
must be able to run a mile in under 8 
minutes, pass a written exam, and attend 
nine meetings of his local chapter of 
referees. For a game, the referee must 
arrive in town the preceding night and 
check in with the coaches. Then, he is 
required to be in the locker room two 
hours prior to game time for the officials 
pre-grame conference. After that, its onto
within the 20-yard line (the score, firs 
downs, and yardage were tied!).
In 1955, Birdy became a member of the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Football Officials 
Association. He worked college games in 
the Tri-State area as a head linesman.
1960 was the turning point of Birdys 
career as a football official. He began 
receiving his assignments out of New York 
City and was promoted to Division I. This 
meant bigger and better college games.
Birdy worked as head linesman for 
battles involving Army, Navy, Pitt, Penn 
State, Syracuse, Virginia Tech, West 
Virginia, Penn, and Cornell. He worked the 
post-season North-South game in the 
Orange Bowl and the SMU-Navy contest in 
the Cotton Bowl before 67,000 fans.
A game that Birdy will never forget is 
the infamous Yale-Harvard tilt of 
November 1972. In this game, Birdy was
V/ 7
Earl J. Birdy, outstanding Tri-State referee.
the field for three hours, rain or shine.
Unknown to most students, C-MU has 
one of these privileged characters on 
campus in the person of Earl J. Birdy, 
director of intramural athletics. Birdy has 
been at C-MU as a physical education in
structor for 22 years, working as a football 
referee for the same amount of time. His 
story is a perfect example of what a college 
official experiences.
E.J. Birdy began officiating high school 
football games while attending Slippery 
Rock State College (Pa.) in 1950. As a 
member of the PIAA, he eventually 
worked his way up to playoff games. The 
strangest contest he refereed was a city 
league playoff, Peabody versus Westinghouse, in which the winning team was 
decided by the number of penetrations
New York--John Wooden, who has 
coached the UCLA Bruins to nine NCAA 
college basketball championships in the last 
ten years, doesnt always coach to win.
At least thats the opinion of Los Ange
les Times sportswriters Dwight Chapin and 
Jeff Prugh, as expressed in their recently 
published Warner Paperback Library bio
graphy of Wooden entitled The Wizard of 
Westwood.
John Wooden discreetly plots, or se
cretly wishes, for some of his teams rare 
defeats,  say Chapin and Prugh. Its a 
strange charge to make against a coach 
whose teams had won 75 consecutive 
games coming into the 1973-74 season, but 
they support the contention with quotes 
from Wooden himself:
Let me say that it is very true that 
there have been occasions I havent done 
everything that I thought was in our best 
interest to out-score an opponent. It 
doesnt mean I didnt want us to win. But 
sometimes I think we needed to be 
knocked down to win later on.
This is interpreted by Chapin and Prugh 
in Thr Wizard of Westwood to mean, 
Wooden doesnt try to throw a game; 
rather he simply does not pull off every 
strategic manuever or psychological ploy 
possible in order to win. Maybe, he believes 
a defeat every now and then will help more 
than harm.
Chapin and Prugh cite three games that 
fit into that category: Oregons resounding 
win at Eugene in 1970, USCs slowdown 
46-44 victory at Pauley Pavilion in 1969, 
and Notre Dames nationally televised 
triumph at South Bend in 1971.
Tactically, there was probably nothing 
Wooden could do to avert the defeat at 
Oregon, admit the authors. UCLA was 
simply outshot and out-played by a su
perior team that night. Psychologically, 
perhaps Wooden could have done some
thing to arouse his players, but he didnt. 
He truly believed, and said so beforehand, 
that a defeat would be good for his team. 
As it turned out, he was proved right in the 
weeks that followed.
About the USC slowdown, Wooden, 
himself, says, It wasnt my teams fault, it 
was my fault and I wasnt upset about it. I 
felt it would be good for us. If we had the 
conference title riding on it, I would have 
handled it quite differently.
As for the Fighting Irish game, the 
authors say: The journey to Notre Dame 
also found a UCLA team that was ripe for 
defeat. Austin Carr wheeled past the be
wildered Bruins to the basket again and 
again as if they were nailed to the floor. 
Could he have been stopped cold by a zone 
defense, rather than a man-to-man? Perhaps. 
But Wooden wasnt about to call one now, 
certainly not in a game that meant nothing 
as far as keeping alive the UCLA dynasty 
was concerned.
There was, however, a footnote to 
Austin Carrs finest hour, add Chapin and 
Prugh. The very next weekend, an uncele
brated Illinois team threw up a zone 
defense that stopped Carr and beat ND. 
Its strange that the authors of The 
Wizard of Westwood would accuse the winningest coach in college basketball of not 
always coaching to win, but then, John 
Wooden is a unique, complex individual.
GOING HOME FOR THANKSGIVING?
TAKE THE A PHI O SHUTTLE BUS 
WED. NOV. 21 FARE: $1.50  
C-MU Gtr. Pgh. Airport
DEPARTURES:
struck from behind by one of the Yale 
players on a kick-off return. The Yale 
player never had a better hit as he broke 
both bones in Birdys left leg and dis
located his left elbow.
Never saw him coming, said E.J. I 
really got smashed.
Birdy received instant medical attention 
from the Harvard staff at the field house. 
He spent a total of 21 days in the hospital 
and eight weeks in a wheelchair.
Needless to say, E.J. Birdy recovered 
and resumed officiating for the 1973 
season. He will work the November 24th 
clash between the Pitt Panthers and the 
Penn State Nittany Lions at University 
Park, Pa. Hopefully, none of Paternos or 
Majors boys will run astray and tackle a 
striped shirt.
MOREWOOD GARDENS 
11:45 AM 
2:15 PM 
4:45 PM
DONNER HALL 
12:00 NOON 
2:30 PM 
5:00 PM
MAKE RESERVATIONS AT:
1) MOREWOOD MAIN DESK
2) SKIBO INFO DESK
3) TARTAN TRAVEL OFFICE ( 40-A SKIBO )
4) B102 HAMMERSCHLAG
5) 305 DONNER HALL
