1
Dumbledore 
is gay? [All]
THE TARTAN
Volume 102, Issue 9
Kalam on 
campus
by Stuti Pandey
Junior Staffwriter
On Oct. 17, Carnegie Mellon 
awarded an honorary doctor
ate in science and technology 
to A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, former 
president of India. During his 
five-year presidency, Kalam 
undertook extensive efforts in 
energy independence and other 
areas in order to transform In
dia into a fully developed nation 
by 2020. He is also a proponent 
of education.
It is great to see the response 
and attendance that we have 
here today. Normally we get a 
turnout like this for rock stars 
and beautiful actresses, Kalam 
said when Sunil Wadhwani, a 
1976 graduate of Tepper School 
of Business and the vice chair
man of Carnegie Mellons Board 
of Trustees, introduced him to 
the audience of over 600 who 
had gathered for the event.
Kalam was the first person to 
receive an honorary degree in a 
separate event outside the com
mencement ceremony in May, 
where the university tradition
ally awards honorary degrees.
Kalam was highly compli
mentary of Carnegie Mellons 
mission.
I have been impressed by 
your motto, Innovation knows 
no borders, Kalam said.
Kalam spoke about his experi
ence as a student working with 
a team of scientists to design a 
hovercraft. When he ran into 
trouble designing the crafts 
propeller, he sought help from 
his professor.
I told him my problem 
was that I needed to design a
See KALAM, page A3
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906October 29, 2007
Are wetoo hard?
Students frequently utter comments like "I 
have so much work. I think Im going to have to 
pull an all-nighter, and Oh well, I havent 
gone out for like a month because Ive 
been studying all weekend.
Across campus, students gripe 
about the intensity of their 
workloads and the result
ing stress, concluding that 
there is simply too
much work and
too little time in which to get it all done.
But not everyone is convinced that thats the 
case.
I dont think students are working as hard as 
they think they are, said Carnegie Mellon psy
chology professor Kenneth Kotovsky.
Kotovsky cited a' study conducted in February 
1999 by the Center for Innovation in Learning, in 
which 70 Carnegie Mellon first-years and juniors 
were asked to record how they spent their time. 
Surprisingly, he said, researchers found that stu
dents academic work, including classes, took up 
less time than recreation, and that on average, 
students participating in the study got about 8.5 
hours of sleep per night.
On Oct. 16, the university announced that re
searchers from Carnegie Mellon and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh received a $426,000 grant from 
the National Institutes of Health to study the ef
fectiveness of a watch-like device that.measures 
psychological stress during the course of the 
subjects daily life.
The study will be led by Thomas Kamaby AkshayDave
Junior Staffwriter
JW Ramp/Photo Editor
Hannah Rosen/Photo Staff
The new Entropy+ opened Wednesday next to Merson Courtyard in the University Center. While still carrying all 
the necessities from the original Entropy, the new Entropy also has produce, including fruits and vegetables as well as 
organic and kosher products.
New Entropy+ open for Homecoming
by Elizabeth Cutrone
Staffwriter
The new Entropy+ convenience store opened 
Wednesday next to Merson Courtyard in the Uni
versity Center. The store features all the packaged 
products available in the old Entropy, such as cookies, 
canned soups, cereal, and bottled drinks, and also has 
a local produce section featuring a variety of fruits 
and vegetables and an expanded selection of organic, 
kosher, and gluten-free products.
Carnegie Mellons Housing and Dining Services 
and the students of the Dining Advisory Committee 
began discussing the expansion of Entropy in the
fall of 2006, according to Chris Fitz, resident district 
manager of university dining.
Some of the topics and issues raised in reference 
to the Entropy space were size and traffic flow* con-, 
gestion at the coffee area, requests for additional 
offerings such as fresh produce and quality graband-go items, and an overall need for a fresh look, 
Fitz said.
Housing and Dining Services solicited students in
put with regard to what they would like to see in a 
new and improved' Entropy, and then made changes 
based on those responses.
In addition to the new selection, Entropy+ is also
See ENTROPY, page A5
www. thetartan.m
Courtesy of the San Diego Amateur Radio Emergency Services Group
page A3
State smoking ban mirrors CMUs
Mike Seok/Photo Staff
by Mariluz Orbay
Junior Staffwriter
On Monday, Oct. 15, State House Majority 
Leader Bill DeWeese declared he would be push
ing efforts to arrange a compromise bill to ban 
smoking in most public places and workplaces 
in Pennsylvania.
The states proposal is similar to that of Carn
egie Mellons Healthy Campus 2010 Task Force, 
which aims to abolish smoking on campus by 
2010. Suggestions include bringing fraternity 
residences into agreement with university 
policy by prohibiting smoking indoors and 
modifying the policy to state that smoking is 
permitted only in designated outdoor areas of 
campus until January 2010, after which the uni
versity would become a smoke-free community 
and smoking would be prohibited in all campus 
outdoor and indoor areas.
However, on Tuesday, the states movement 
showed signs of slow progress when members of 
the House rejected a ban supported by Pennsyl
vania state senators.
Before the legislatures summer recess, the 
House endorsed a strong measure, permitting 
smoking only in private homes not used for day 
care, cigar expositions, tobacco shops, and fra
ternal clubs at least 10 years old. In contrast, the 
Senate agreed to a version that was full of addi
tional exemptions, such as small neighborhood 
taverns, up to 25 percent of the floor space of a 
casino, private clubs, private homes that dont 
have child care, cigar bars or upscale taverns 
that stock cigars in humidors, and some rooms 
in nursing homes and residential treatment fa
cilities.
Most of the states around Pennsylvania have 
already approved restrictive smoking bans.
Both state and campus-wide smoking ban 
proposals have stirred up great debate in the 
Carnegie Mellon community.
I most certainly support the smoking ban, 
said first-year CIT student Grant Newsome. 
Personally, I feel that if we dont allow shoot
ing guns in public places, something that is also 
potentially lethal, the non-smoker population 
should not have to be unwillingly exposed to 
such a serious health hazard as second-hand 
smoke.
First-year business major Parth Karna ex
pressed similar feelings of disapproval.
I find the nature of the government to be very 
contradictory. Smoking is just like any other 
drug: It is addictive and potentially lethal, he 
said. If drugs are illegal, why should smoking
See BAN, page A4
San Diego burns

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
WeatherLecture
Preview
Fishman to discuss 
consumer trends
FRIDAY 
Hi: 54 
Lo: 38o
WEDNESDAYTHURSDAY 
Hi: 52
Lo: 37-
TUESDAY 
Hi: 63
Lo: 43
SATURDAY 
Hi: 57 *Lo: 43
Title: Journeys Lecture Series  
Science, Exploration, and Emotion 
The Basics: Jay Apt, a former NASA 
astronaut who is now an associate re
search professor in the Tepper School 
of Business, will discuss how emotional 
and rational ways of thinking continue 
to guide his professional life. Apt be
lieves that while many people divorce 
science from exploration, the two are 
inextricably intertwined. Apt served 
as an astronaut on four shuttle mis
sions and two space walks. He also 
co-authored the best-selling book Orbit: 
NASA Astronauts Photograph the Earth 
(National Geographic, 2003).
When: Monday at 4:30 p.m.
Where: Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 
136A)
Incident
TheftSuspicious Substance
A university staff member A student who came into 
reported that the top half of the University Police station
a nitrogen cylinder in the Air at 300 S. Craig St. reported
Quality Center in Doherty Hall that her debit card was misshad frosted over and was reing and was in fraudulent use.
leasing gas. University Police The student had received a call
arrived on the scene, examfrom PNC Bank informing her
ined the equipment, and found of suspicious activity. The stuthat the cylinder was venting dent received a replacement
normally through its pressure card from PNC after confirmvalve. ing with the bank that the
activity was fraudulent.
Suspicious Person
Oct. 22, 2007 Suspicious Activity
at 11:15 a.m. Oct. 25, 2007
at 11:20 p.m.
A University Center book
store employee reported a A student from Boss House
white female lurking suspicalled University Police reportciously on the first floor* of ing a suspicious male lurking
the store. The employee was in front of the dormitories,
concerned that the actor had Police arrived on the scene,
stolen merchandise. The emand asked the actor to present
ployee called University Police, a CMU ID. Police determined
who' confirmed that the actor that the actor was a Carnegie
was a Carnegie Mellon stuMellon student and asked him
dent. The actor was carefully to leave the area and return to
watched by bookstore employhis residence,
ees before she left.
Fire Alarm
Burglary Oct. 27, 2007
Oct. 23, 2007 at 10:17 p.m.
at 6:37 a.m. '
An alarm sounded on the 
A University Center Info first floor of Hamerschlag Hall.
Desk attendant reported Residents evacuated all floors
money missing from the regisof the building. The Pittsburgh
ter. Since the area behind the Bureau of Fire arrived 10 mindesk was intact, the burglary utes later and cleared the area,
was believed to have been No signs of smoke or fire were
performed with no force. The found. Residents were permitattendant did not know the ted to return to their rooms,
time of the crime or the where
abouts of the actor. Compiled by
Sabrina Porter
Title: Strategic Challenges in the 
Middle East
The Basics: General John Abizaid, 
former commander for the U.S Central 
Command, will speak on his experi
ences as a commander in the Middle 
East, the Horn of Africa, and Central 
Asia. Units under his command included 
the 1st Infantry Division, a brigade in 
the 82nd Airborne Division, and two 
Ranger companies. Serving from 1973 
to 2007, Abizaid is the longest-serving 
commander of U.S. Central Command. 
He is a member of the Council on 
Foreign Relations and the International 
Institute for Strategic Studies. Abizaid 
is currently president of his own inter
national security consulting firm, JPA 
Partners, LLC, which advises corpora
tions and public agencies.
When: Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. 
Where: Rangos 1, University Center
Kristen Severson/Photo Staff
Chili chefs go mouth to mouth
Students, alumni, faculty, and staff sample the chili recipes of the campus community during the 
fourth annual Homecoming Chili Cook-off at noon on Saturday outside the University Center. 
Teams signed up to cook a batch of their favorite chili, and participants sampled each teams prod
uct and voted on their favorite. The winning team was Cooking from A-Z, followed by Chilly 
Chili in second place and Mudge Love in third.
Title: The Steel Cocoon: Tales of 
the Doctors, Nurses, and Patients of the 
Iron Lung, 1928-1955
The Basics: Lynne M. Dunphy, 
Routhier Endowed Chair of Practice 
and Professor of Nursing, University of 
Rhode Island, will discuss the ways in 
which polio survivors in the early 20th 
century embraced the mechanical ap
paratus associated with their disease by 
confronting a cultural stigma. American 
antipathy to these assistive devices 
meant that polio survivors often had to 
overcome an emotional and psychologi
cal resistance to using them.
When: Thursday at 6 p.m.
Where: Lecture Room 5, Scaife Hall, 
University of Pittsburgh campus
Wednesday is Halloween, a festival that originated around 5 B.C. 
in present-day Ireland as a pagan celebration. The celebration has 
become more commercial than spiritual, and consumers continue to 
spend more and more money on Halloween-related merchandise each 
year  a sign that the Halloween spirit is still present today. 
Percentage of Americans expfected to celebrate this
year: 64
Combined weight in pounds of jack-o-lanterns and 
pies sold last year:Corrections1.1 billion
C tarificationsAmount of money spent on Halloween in 1996$2.13 billion
If you would like to submit 
a correction or clarification, 
please e-mail The Tartan 
at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan. org with 
your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and 
the name of the article. We 
will print the correction 
or clarification in the next 
print issue and publish it 
online.
Last issues SciTech ar
ticle Psychologist David 
Klahr named Bingham Pro
fessor stated that Klahr is 
the author of Consumer
ism: Marketing, Buying, and 
American Psyche; he is not.
Title: The Wal-Mart Effect
The Basics: Charles Fishman, awardwinning journalist and author of The 
Wal-Mart Effect, will discuss the ways in 
which Wal-Mart drives Americas econ
omy, what it means to be considered the 
most powerful and influential company 
in the world, and what the companys 
current and potential effects on global
ization could be. Fishman will focus on 
how Wal-Mart affects the prices we pay 
and the products we buy, and on the 
other end, the lives of the factory work
ers who make these products.
This lecture is the 2007 International 
Festival keynote address.
When: Friday at 12:30 p.m.
Where: Rangos Ballroom, University 
Center
Amount of money spent on Halloween in 2006$4.96 billion
Expected number of trick-or-treaters this year:36.1 million
Anticipated amount of money spent on candy this 
year, per person:Last issues Homecoming 
edition stated that alumna 
Ming-Na played the role 
of Neela on ER. Ming-Na 
played Dr. Chen; actor Parminder Nagra plays Neela.
Compiled by 
Akshay Dave
Sources: National Retail Federation, Forbes Magazine, www.census. 
gov, www.usda.gov,www.about.com,www.msn.com
Administrators, students
AlertNow introduces text option
improve campus processes
Students to attend eco-conference
Title: University Lecture Series  
Mechanization, the Enlightenment, and 
the Industrial Revolution in Britain 
The Basics: Joel Mokyr, the Robert 
H. Strotz Professor of Arts and Sciences 
and professor of economics and his
tory at Northwestern University, will 
discuss the impact of mechanization 
on economic and social developments 
in Britain. The lecture will focus on 
the history of mechanical devices and 
how they have shaped intellectual and 
physical labor important to Britains 
development during this period.
This lecture is co-sponsored by the 
Humanities Center.
When: Friday at 4:30 p.m.
Where: Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 
136A)
Carnegie Mellons recently in
stated emergency notification service, 
AlertNow, is now offering a text mes
saging option. Once students register 
their phone numbers in the system, 
AlertNow will send them a voice mail 
or text message when an event that 
threatens public safety occurs on or 
around campus.
The university instituted AlertNow 
to alert the campus community in the 
event of an emergency. The system 
sends frequent updates, providing in
formation on relocation procedures 
and evacuation plans. It sends a final 
update when the advisory is lifted.
The emergency alert system was 
adopted after the shooting tragedy 
occurred at Virginia Tech. AlertNow 
makes it possible for Carnegie Mellons 
Environmental Health & Safety depart
ment to make 5000 calls in about one
minute to alert all registered users in 
the case of an emergency.
The system has been used several 
times since the beginning of the school 
year. In August, the university received 
bomb threats targeting Doherty Hall 
and the Mellon Institute. Students, 
faculty, and staff received several up
dates via AlertNow as University Police 
evacuated and performed searches on 
both buildings.
The system was also used in 
September when a water main break in 
Oakland caused the campus and sur
rounding neighborhoods to lose water. 
AlertNow provided updates on the re
pairs as well as information on where 
to get bottled water on campus.
To sign up for AlertNow, visit my. emu. 
ed u/si te/main/page. alert.
Members of Sustainable Earth, 
Carnegie Mellons student environmen
tal organization, will travel to Power 
Shift 2007, an environmental summit 
where thousands of young people from 
across the country will discuss global 
warming and other environmental issues 
facing the world today. The summit will 
take place at the University of Maryland 
from Nov. 2 to 5.
It will feature several days of work
shops, panel discussions, lectures, and 
special-guest speeches from leading ac
tivists in the field. Experts and students 
will discuss how to build a clean-energy 
economy, achieve energy independence, 
create millions of green jobs, increase 
global equity, and revitalize the American 
economy. The summit will culminate 
with a trip to the Capitol building where 
young activists will conduct lobby visits 
and rally on the steps to promote the
ISky Campaign, which aims to increase 
the amount of green jobs, reduce carbon 
pollution levels, and prevent the con
struction of new coal-fired power plants.
Sustainable Eartji is a student group 
whose goal is to bring attention to en
vironmental problems and create ways 
for Carnegie Mellon administration and 
students to help solve these problems. 
The group also takes part in environ
mental community service projects and 
environmental education for the campus 
community.
 The group from Carnegie Mellon will 
travel on a bus to meet up with other 
youth activists in Washington, D.C. For 
more information about the summit or 
to register to attend, contact campus co
ordinator Alicia Marrie at amarrie@.
Compiled by 
Veronica Milliner
Compiled by 
Monalisa Ghose
Science & Technology 
~// Life science grant
ForumSportsPillbox
'7^) Scary places on campusDumbledore is gayFootball wins two
Pierre-Gilles de Gennes symposium 
How Things Work: Jgpiters Europa
Woman for president 
College tuition
i
Athlete Profile: Jessica Brackin 
Womens soccer defeats New York
A
Nine 
Rebound express
I ')

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
REGISTRATION IS LIMITED, DONTDELAY
San Diego on fire, still burning
by Brandon Sherman
Junior Staffwriter
Since Monday, Oct. 22, wild
fires in southern California have 
destroyed thousands of homes, 
burned hundreds of thousands 
of acres, killed just under a dozen 
people, and are still burning. A 
large area of San Diego was evac
uated as the fires encroached on 
houses, schools, hospitals, and 
businesses.
Local colleges and universities 
cancelled classes for nearly the en
tire week, although more coastal 
schools held classes on Monday. 
The University of California, San 
Diego canceled classes beginning 
on Tuesday, citing health concerns 
over the ash falling from the sky 
that was almost an inch thick in 
areas close to the fires.
Although the fires didnt 
threaten UCSD directly, a bunch 
of commuter students couldnt 
make it to classes. And although 
they could have re-opened on 
Thursday or Friday, they decided 
to let evacuated people regroup, 
UCSD student Ryan Glovinsky 
said.
Even though the missed week 
represents one-tenth of a quarter, 
Glovinsky said, the school year 
has not been extended by any 
length of time. It will be left to the 
professors to decide what to do
about the missed class time.
San Diego State University can
celed classes as well, although 
the university listed additional 
reasons  with so many students 
commuting to school, the school 
was concerned that the additional 
traffic might impede emergency 
vehicles from getting to the fires 
quickly enough.
No colleges or universities have 
been destroyed during the fires; 
however, the flames came quite v 
close to Pepperdine College in Los 
Angeles.
Carnegie Mellon students who 
are from the area remain con
cerned about the welfare of their 
family and friends back home.
No one from my family had to 
be evacuated or lost their home, 
but my best friend and other 
people I know had their things 
packed and ready to go if they 
needed to evacuate, said Lauren 
Krogh, a junior biological sciences 
and psychology major who is from 
San Diego.
While Krogh reported receiv
ing no official response from the 
university, she has received sup
port, from housefellow Rowshan 
Palmer and her friends at Carn
egie Mellon.
[Rowshan] sent me a couple 
e-mails saying Let me know 
if theres anything I can do, 
Krogh said. The day I found out 
[about the fires], I got calls and
e-mails from friends asking how 
things were going, so that was en
couraging.
The fires have burned approxi
mately 531 square miles in about 
a week, an area roughly equal to 
73 percent of the size of Allegheny 
County, according to data from 
the United States Census Bureau.
Investigators do not currently 
know how some of the fires 
started; however, they have deter
mined that a downed power line 
started one of the fires, an outof-control structure fire spread 
and started another, and an arson 
started at least one other fire, ac
cording to local newscasts.
Estimates vary, although the 
total fire cost lies somewhere 
above $1 billion  not including 
rebuilding homes, according to 
KBPS local news in San Diego.
However, in the midst of the 
tragedy, Krogh has been focusing 
on what she feels is most impor
tant  her friends and family.
Its such a relief to me that 
my immediate family wasnt re
ally affected, she said. Natural 
disasters help you realize whats 
important in life. Ive been real
izing how blessed we are, and 
hoping that people can see the 
bigger picture of family and safety 
and health. It really does affect 
everyone.
Apartheid activist speaks in Pittsburgh
Desmond Tutu, archbishop emeritus and South African activist, spoke at Calvary Church last 
Thursday. Tutu rose to fame in the 1980s with his staunch opposition of apartheid. At Calvary, 
the archbishop was presented with an honorary doctorate of humane letters by Carnegie Mellon 
President Jared L. Cohon.
Your Idea Mit Start a Idoenwnt. 
And You Could Win $75,000.
Former president of India Abdul 
Kalam receives honorary degree
KALAM, from A1
contra-rotating propeller. He 
appreciated the problem and 
said he would give me a free Sat
urday, and I could go there and 
present my problem. I designed 
it. And I put it in my hovercraft, 
and I flew it. And professor 
Satish Dhawan was the happiest 
person, Kalam said.
However, Kalam was quick 
to talk about others achieve
ments, as he went on to discuss 
the hardships and ultimate tri
umphs of five Nobel laureates in 
achieving their goals.
Kalam also eagerly answered 
students questions during a
question-and-answer session af
ter his speech.
When junior social and de
cision sciences major Vivake 
Prasad asked, Do you believe 
India should intervene in the 
situation in Burma? Kalam an
swered, [India] got freedom 
from the British in 1947. The is
sue here is that the freedom we 
got has become an important 
example for all the countries 
that had been ruled by many 
countries. For example, South 
Africa. So it looks to me it is our 
job, wherever there is a freedom 
struggle.
Students reacted positively to 
Kalams speech, particularly re
garding his focus on education.
He didnt accept his second 
term as president in order to 
teach at a public university, said 
Giridhar Pathak, a first-year me
chanical engineering major.
Lastly, Kalam shared some 
ideas about how Carnegie Mel
lon and India could work to
gether to achieve mutually ben
eficial goals.
India has the fiber connec
tivity up to the plot level; now it 
needs to be lit up... CMU in part-' 
nership with IIT [India Institute 
of Technology] Hyderabad can 
help us do this, Kalam said.
Sponsored by
Cosponsored by
tke Pioneer Portfolio of the
HopeLa^
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Kalam, the former president of India, was awarded an honorary doctorate in science and technology 
Oct. 17. He was recognized for his innovations in energy reform and ambitious plans for his nation.
iMif tegte-s Notion Dummubt Mil
We're looking for ideas for products that will increase physical activity 
among middle-school-aged kids (ages 11-149. And we're awarding more 
than $300,000 in cash and prizes for winning entries. 
Plus your idea could become a real product. HopeLab, sponsor of Ruckus 
Nation, will support the development of products based on the best 
ideqs. Visit our website for details.

---------------------------------------------------

www.nyu.edu/abroad/carnegiemellon
/Vi^AyiAil/A UAUUI II iirr** r  broad
Were visiting 
your campus soon!
? Saturday, November 3
 10 a.m.-2 p.m.
 Carnegie Mellon 
Education and Opportunities 
Abroad Fair
 University Center
find out more 
about NYU study
StudyAbroad. Be there.
TARTAN
www.thetartan.org
Carnegie Mellon. UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
INTERNSHIP 
Spring 2008
Posner Center Exhibits
15 hours/week for 15 weeks 
S2475 stipend 
Option for credit
APPLY BY NOVEMBER fi
www. library. emu, edu
Creative opportunity 
for self-defined project
Questions? Mary Kay 
miQg@andrew.cmu.edu
Carnegie Mellon students only

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
enjoy all
with shuffleboard darts, pool, big screen TVs, and more...
5135 Liberty Ave at S. Evaline St. 1731 Murray Avenue * Squirrel Hill
412.683.6141 412.421.9222
Mon day-Saturday 4pm-2am Monday-Friday 4pm-2am
Sunday 12pm-12am Saturday & Sunday 11am~2am
Week A1493 0,br1oad 
MondayThrowback night 81.50 draughts 
TuesdayImport draught or bottle S2.00 
WedesdayMicro and Specialty brews 8 2.00 
ThursdayLadies Night 8 2.00 mixed drinks 
FridayFree Wings 4-6pm 
HAPPY HOUR 
Monday-Friday 4-6 pm
s Crow's Hest
under the new management of 
Parkhurst Dining Services, which 
is overseen by Housing and Dining 
Services.
Fitz cites two ways in which 
the stores new set-up will benefit 
students.
First, Parkhurst and the Dining 
operations are food-focused and 
are able to quickly adapt to student 
requests in current food trends. 
Secondly, this gives [students] the 
added benefit and convenience in 
having meal plan dollars available 
for use in the store, Fitz said.
Despite the added convenience, 
some students are disappointed by 
the consequences of the manage
ment change.
Id been hearing that if it were 
under CMU Housing and Dining, 
the prices would drop, but a lot of 
things are still really expensive, 
said junior biological sciences ma
jor Satish Ramakrishnan.
However, most students are 
satisfied with the expanded selec
tion, particularly the stores selec
tion of organic products, if not the 
stores prices.
I like that they have a whole 
section devoted to Kashi prod
ucts, said first-year Science and 
Humanities Scholar Eda Akyar.The new Entropy makes fresh foods and produce available to students inside the University Center.
HIII5UII riper/rnuiu oian
Indian celebrations kick off Homecoming
Mayur and the South Asian Students Association held their annual Diwali and Eid Celebrations 
last Thursday night to commemorate the official start of Homecoming 2007. Otherwise known 
as the Festival of Lights, the events included traditional Indian dancers, cuisine, and henna 
tattoos, all under candlelight.
Overlooking the Allegheny Rive
19th & River Road  412.782.3707 
Tuesday-Thursday 1 lam-midnight 
Friday & Saturday 1lam-2am 
banquet facilities 
Check us out at Citysearch.com
Bill to ban 
cigarettes
BAN, from Al
be any different? Perhaps the gov
ernment is too protective of its 
economic interests.
Others are concerned about the 
economic disadvantages of ap
proving a smoking ban.
The economic drawbacks of 
the smoking ban outweigh the 
positive health benefits. There
fore, the smoking ban should not 
be approved, said Daniel A. Kotovsky, a first-year electrical and 
computer engineering major.
Students views are shared by 
several state politicians.
Pennsylvania Senator Stewart 
Greenleaf (R-Montgomery), who 
has been trying to get a ban for 10 
years, favors a bill without the ex
emptions, an Oct. 19 article in the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette stated.
Senate Majority Leader Domi
nic Pileggi (R-Chester) recently 
told DeWeese in a letter that he 
believes it is time to arrange a 
compromise smoking ban, called 
the Clean Indoor Air Act; he reit
erated the urgency of adopting a 
Clean Air Act as soon as possible, 
the Post-Gazette article stated.
Next, DeWeese will assemble a 
six-member committee to recon
cile the differences between the 
House and the Senate and have a 
bill ready for Pennsylvania Gov. 
Edward Rendell to sign before 
Christmas break, stated Michael 
Manzo, chief of staff for DeWeese, 
in an Oct. 24 article in The Herald 
Standard.
WORKING, from A1
rck, a psychology professor at 
the University of Pittsburgh.
The device itself, called the 
eWatch, was developed by 
Daniel Siewiorek, director of the 
Human Computer Interaction In
stitute in the School of Computer 
Science, and Asim Smailagic, re
search professor in the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
The aim of the study is to gauge 
the stress that each participant 
feels that he or she is under at 
random times of the day.
But stress in itself is a very sub
jective concept.
Stress is a feeling based on 
perception and personal evalu
ation of the situation, said 
Carnegie Mellon psychology 
professor Sheldon Cohen. While 
one person may feel stress while 
conducting a certain task, an
other person may not.
In addition, a variety of other 
factors besides the cause of the 
stress itself can influence stu
dents levels of anxiety, Cohen 
said.
The subjects environment can 
have a significant effect on per
ceived amount of stress, Cohen 
said. People with strong social 
networks dont often complain of 
large amounts of stress.
If students dont have those 
networks in place, they should 
take advantage of university pro
grams designed to aid students 
with their workload, said senior 
biology major Piyush Gupta.
People just dont know how 
to or dont try hard enough to 
manage their time, Gupta said. 
Gupta is the director for Carnegie 
Mellon EMS and the commu
nity advisor for Boss and McGill 
Houses. There is a vast array of 
resources that the university of
fers, not only for academic but 
also for emotional help, and stu
dents should take advantage of 
these resources.
Kotovsky proposed another 
solution to alleviate stress associ
ated with schoolwork.
Students tend to involve in
recreational activity without fin
ishing off their homework. It is my 
personal belief that this weighs on 
their mind constantly, even when 
they are not studying, thus mak
ing them more stressed, he said. 
The best students are the ones 
that spent time between classes 
doing homework and time in the 
evening relaxing.
However, some students have 
difficulty with this method in 
practice.
It is hard to motivate yourself 
to finish homework as soon as it 
is assigned, especially when you 
have the ability to get it done later 
on. But I dont think that makes 
me stressed, said Rachael Hard
ing, a first-year electrical and 
computer engineering major.
I try my best to finish off work 
a long time before its due. This 
gives me the chance to try new 
things and be more spontaneous 
with my decision making, said 
Lionel Merone, a first-year ethics, 
history, and public policy major.
But according to Cohen, stress 
is not just about demands, but 
about each individuals per
ceived ability to deal with those 
demands.
It is imperative for students 
to realize that everyone does not 
have the same talents, and some 
people simply deal better with 
more work, Cohen said.
So are students stress levels 
truly higher at Carnegie Mellon 
than at other universities?
Highly competitive environ
ments such as Carnegie Mellon 
tend to test students confidence 
and willpower, Kotovsky said. 
However, this is not an exclusive 
phenomenon.
Cohen suggested a method 
of success that will help all 
students, regardless of which 
university they attend.
The most important thing is 
to set your priorities beforehand 
rather than complain about 
work, Cohen said. Setting rea
sonable targets at the start of the 
semester is another way to have 
greater control over your life.
Shuyu Lui/Art Staff
Master of Engineering in Manufacturing 
Webo31k4 2a7oa cembdd1koad
China
Japan
United States
Manufacturing is more important than 
ever, in the U.S. and around the world.
New technologies and markets require a new 
kind of professional. We prepare students with 
the knowledge and experience they need to 
become innovators in the field of global 
manufacturing.
The Master of Engineering in Manufacturing is 
an intensive one-year program with an 
integrated, project-oriented curriculum 
grounded in engineering science. A group 
project in industry gives students real-world 
experience.
Fellowships and opportunities for global study 
are available.
Become a leader in manufacturing and learn the ,erbddi 
,esgr3i dld3byi and 7gd1kbdd aspects of manufacturing.
For more information, including application materials, visit 
http://web.mit.edu/nrieng-manufacturing/
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
cberbk3 m 2a7oa Voagb-Assbs 
Mokgmor3ge1k4i 2005
Source: United Nations Statistics Division
Master of Engineering Program 
MIT Room 35-231 
77 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 
617-258-5622 
menginfo@mit.edu
Massachusetts 
Institute of 
Technology
Entropy+ improves food, space, and convenience
ENTROPY, from Al
Students ability to cope 
with stress questioned

---------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHED IN CHARLESTON, IL 
IN 1983 TO ADD TO STUDENTS GPA 
AND GENERAI DATING ABILITY.IO**.
8" SUB SANDWICHES
All of my tasty sub sandwiches are a full 8 inches of homemade French bread, fresh veggies and the finest 
meats & cheese I can buy! And if it matters to you, we slice everything fresh everyday in this store, right here where you can see it. (No mystery meat here!)
fi ndndo
Real applewood smoked ham and provolone cheese 
garnished with lettuce, tomato, and mayo.
#2 BIG JOHN
Medium rare choice roast beef, topped with 
yummy mayo, lettuce, and tomato.
#3 TOTALLY TUNA1
Fresh housemade tuna, mixed with celery, onions, 
and our tasty sauce, then topped with alfalfa sprouts, 
cucumber, lettuce, and tomato. (My tuna rocks!)
#4 TURKEY TOM
Fresh sliced turkey breast, topped with lettuce, 
tomato, alfalfa sprouts, and mayo. (The original)
#5 VITO
The original Italian sub with genoa salami, provolone, 
capicola, onion, lettuce, tomato, & a real tasty Italian 
vinaigrette. (Hot peppers by request)
#6 VEGETARIAN M)
Layers of provolone cheese separated by real 
avocado spread, alfalfa sprouts, sliced cucumber, 
lettuce, tomato, and mayo. (Truly a gourmet sub not 
for vegetarians only........... peace dude!)
J.J.B.L.T.
Bacon, lettuce, tomato, & mayo.
(The only better BLT is mamas BLT)
? SIDE ITEMS ?
? Soda Pop............................................................$1.29/$1.4S
? Giant chocolate chip or oatmeal raisin qookie... $1.25
? Real potato chips or jumbo kosher dill pickle.... $1.00
? Extra load of meat......................................................$1.25
? Extra cheese or extra avocado spread............ $0.75
? Hot Peppers.................................................................Free
FREEBIES (SUBS  CLUBS ONLY)
Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced 
cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano.
Sittce1983
On,?RLDs GRERTESj 
SANDWICH
Corporate Headquarters Champaign, IL
PLAIN SLIMS
Any Sub minus the veggies and sauce
SUM I Ham & cheese
SUM 2 Roast Beef
utm a Tuna salad
SUM 4 Turkey breast
SUM 5 Salami, capicola, cheese I
SLIM 6 Double provolone
Low Carb Lettuce Wrap
Same ingredients and price of the 
sub or club without the bread.
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS, PARTIES!
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery 
charge of 100 per item (+/-ioc).
? ? ? ? JIMMYJOHNS.COM ? ? ? ?
_A7#Y_THE J.J. GARGANTUAN
This sandwich was invented by 
Jimmy Johns brother Huey. Its huge 
enough to feed the hungriest of all 
humans! Tons of genoa salami, sliced 
smoked ham, capicola, roast beef, 
turkey & provolone. jammed into 
one of our homemade French buns 
then smothered with onions, mayo, 
lettuce, tomato, & our homemade 
Italian dressing.
OK, SO MY SUBS REALLY AREN'T GOURMET AND 
WE'RE NOT FRENCH EITHER. MY SUBS JUST TASTE 
A LITTLE BETTER, THAT'S ALL! I WANTED TO 
CALL IT JIMMY JOHN'S TASTY SANDWICHES, BUT 
MY MOM TOLD ME TO STICK WITH GOURMET. 
SHE THINKS WHATEVER I DO IS GOURMET, BUT 
I DON'T THINK EITHER OF US KNOWS WHAT IT 
MEANS. SO LET'S STICK WITH TASTY!
GIANT CLUB SANDWICHES
My club sandwiches have twice the meat and cheese, try it on my fresh baked thick sliced 7-grain bread or my famous homemade french bread!
#7 GOURMET SMOKED HAM CLUB
A full 1/4 pound of real applewood smoked ham, 
provolone cheese, lettuce, tomato, & real mayo!
#8 BILLY CLUB
Choice roast beef, smoked ham, provolone cheese,
Dijon mustard, lettuce, tomato, & mayo.
#9 ITALIAN NIGHT CLUB
Real genoa salami, Italian capicola, smoked ham, 
and provolone cheese all topped with lettuce, tomato, 
onion, mayo, and our homemade Italian vinaigrette.
(You havta order hot peppers, just ask!)
#10 HUNTER'S CLUB
A full 1/4 pound of fresh sliced medium rare 
roast beef, provolone, lettuce, tomato. & mayo.
#11 COUNTRY CLUB
Fresh sliced turkey breast, applewood smoked ham, 
provolone, and tons of lettuce, tomato, and mayo!
(A very traditional, yet always exceptional classic!)
#12 BEACH CLUB 
Fresh baked turkey breast, provolone cheese, avocado 
spread, sliced cucumber, sprouts, lettuce, tomato, and 
mayo! (Its the real deal, and it aint even California.)
#13 GOURMET VEGGIE CLUB
Double provolone, real avocado spread, sliced 
cucumber, alfalfa sprouts, lettuce, tomato, & mayo.
(Try it on my 7-grain whole wheat bread. This veggie 
sandwich is world class!)
#14 BOOTLEGGER CLUB
Roast beef, turkey breast, lettuce, tomato, & mayo.
An American classic, certainly not invented by J.J. but 
definitely tweaked and fine-tuned to perfection!
#15 CLUB TUNA
The same as our #3 Totally Tuna except this one has 
a lot more. Fresh housemade tuna salad, provolone, 
sprouts, cucumber, lettuce, & tomato.
#16 CLUB LULU1*
Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon, lettuce, tomato,
& mayo. (JJs original turkey & bacon club)
VISA
Ca5lerCard^WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK S
PITTSBURGH 3444 FORBES AVE. 412.681.9010
"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!"
0 0 II MM I IHN' USCHI l.U * Li RII, H P M. D it o I) M j . - A , M !

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
October 29, 2007_______________________________________________ THE TARTAN____________________________________________________ A7
Symposium commemorates physics Nobel laureate
Brandon Sherman/Photo Staff
Pitts symposium two weeks ago featured various speakers, including Tom Lubensky (shown), who spoke about the accomplishments of de Gennes.
Grant goes 
to sciences
by Michael M. Whiston
Science & Technology Edior
The Richard King Mellon 
Foundation has awarded $25 
million to support life sci
ences research and education 
at Carnegie Mellon through 
the creation of the Life Sciences 
Competitiveness Fund. The 
LSCF will be used for a variety 
of projects, including the hiring 
of faculty and the creation of 
new facilities, including labo
ratories. The grant will also be 
used to form the Presidential 
Scholars Fund, a source of fi
nancial support for graduate 
students who are pursuing re
search in the life sciences.
Speaking of the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation, Senior 
Media Relations Director Ken 
Walters said, They do recognize 
Carnegie Mellon as a leader in 
the field. Walters said that the 
LSCF is geared toward support
ing projects in various areas, in
cluding quality of life initiatives 
and medical robotics.
There are a lot of different 
areas that you can touch on, 
he said. The idea is that the 
fund gives the opportunity for 
researchers to do their work in 
the hopes of developing solu
tions, whether its products or 
services, that are going to solve 
real-world problems. Walters 
added that part of the funds 
purpose is to attract top stu
dents to Carnegie Mellon.
Scott Izzo, director of the 
Richard King Mellon Founda
tion, stated in an e-mail that 
the fund is part of an effort 
to increase the universitys 
competitiveness by supporting 
graduate students. According 
to Izzo, student talent helps the 
university compete for research 
money, and this money boosts 
job opportunities in the region.
The regions economy has a 
large stake in life sciences and 
without question both talent 
and advanced technology are 
key to competing, Izzo stated.
See GIFT, page A8
by Marium Chandna
Asst. Science & Technology Editor
A leading researcher in the 
field of soft-matter physics and 
recipient of the 1991 Nobel Prize, 
Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was hon
ored by colleagues and friends at 
University of Pittsburghs Memo
rial Symposium two weeks ago.
Professor Steven Dytman and 
emeritus professor Walter Goldburg organized the symposium 
to highlight de Genness contri
butions to science in terms of 
his research in polymer physics, 
superconductivity, and liquid 
crystals.
Among the guest speakers 
at the symposium were Fran
oise Brochard-Wyart of Labo
ratoire de Physico-Chimie Curie 
in France, Tom Lubensky of the 
University of Pennsylvania, Fyl 
Pincus of the University of Cali
fornia, Santa Barbara, and Yadin 
Goldschmidt of the department 
of physics and astronomy at the 
University of Pittsburgh.
The symposium began with 
Goldburg briefly describing de
Genness work in the field of 
soft-matter physics. Soft-matter 
physics focuses on the properties 
of different materials that are 
neither fluid nor solid, such as 
rubber, polymer, and lubricants.
Goldburg said that de Gennes 
had a strong, artistic feeling 
about his work, not to forget his 
remarkable intuition to get to the 
heart of the physics.
The notion of phase transi
tion, such as the steps involved 
in the physicochemical muta
tion from ice to water, played 
an important role in de Genness 
work, he said.
Brochard-Wyart, who had 
been a collaborator of de Gennes 
for more than 30 years, pro
vided her audience with insight 
into de Genness academic and 
professional interests by pre
senting a film about his life and 
accomplishments.
The film Reflections on PierreGilles de Gennes depicted de 
Genness work at various stages 
of his life, from being a college 
student through teaching and re
searching.
The film also encapsulated var
ious books that he authored and 
touched on de Genness frequent 
visits to Japan out of his love for 
Japans scientific culture.
During his lifetime, de Gennes 
geared his research mainly to
ward the study of liquid crystals. 
Liquid crystals are substance s that 
have particular arrangements of 
molecules. These substances are 
used to make liquid crystal dis
plays (LCDs) in laptops.
In the late 1960s, de Gennes 
advanced his research by estab
lishing the Orsay Liquid Crystal 
Group, an organization dedicated 
to the study of liquid crystals.
In the early 1970s, de Gennes 
extensively researched the phys
ics of liquid crystal polymers and 
published The Physics of Liquid 
Crystals with Jacques Prost.
Prior to de Genness research, 
scientists knew that liquid crys
tals exhibited different phases 
depending on the surrounding 
temperature.
De Gennes drew attention to 
the fact that the liquid crystals 
not only have amplitude and 
phases, but also a director based 
on the order of the molecules,
which indicates the direction 
faced by liquid crystals.
As stated in a University of 
Pittsburgh press release, de 
Gennes also unveiled in his 
research how liquid crystals 
transform from a transparent 
to an opaque state, the principle 
enabling the use of liquid-crys
tal displays (LCDs) common in 
computer screens and flat-screen 
televisions.
Throughout his career, de 
Genness interest in the physical 
world was fueled by the real ob
servation of scientific processes 
in daily life, rather than exten
sive theoretical formulations,said 
Pincus.
Lubensky said that de Genness 
ability to take concepts from one 
methodology and apply them to 
fields where no one would expect 
them to work, was highly com
mendable and one of the secrets 
behind his success.
While de Gennes focused 
mainly on liquid crystal phys
ics in his research, he had an 
impact over almost everything, 
from magnets to superconduc
tors, Lubensky said.
SciTechBriefs
Discovery to build 
on space station
NASA launched the space 
shuttle Discovery last Tuesday 
on a mission to install a new 
module, Harmony, at the Inter
national Space Station (ISS).
Harmony is a 23- by 14-foot 
passageway that will connect 
the American sections of the ISS 
to the European and Japanese 
modules, including the U.S. 
Destiny Laboratory and Kibo 
Japanese Experiment Module.
Harmony will be installed by 
Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli.
Six other astronauts are in
volved in this mission, which 
also aims to relocate the part of 
the space station that holds the 
ISSs solar panels to a new, per
manent position.
Discovery took off despite 
cracks that were found on the 
wing panels a few days before 
the launch. Experts did not con
sider these cracks threatening 
enough to repair.
Source: www.nasa.gov
Bangkok faces 
rising sealine
Bangkok city is sinking at 
the rate of approximately four 
inches per year.
The infrastructure, which lies 
above a swampy floodplain, is 
dropping below sealine as wa
ter is pumped out of its aquifers 
for commercial consumption. 
This is causing the clay levels to 
compact and sink.
Experts say that the gulfs 
waters have been rising at the 
rate of one-tenth of an inch per 
year.
Several possible solutions 
are being explored, including a 
system of dikes to contain the 
rising waters, as well as build
ing water-diversion channels, 
upcountry dams, and diverting 
off-flow from the surges into 
reservoirs for storage.
Source: CNN
Dinosaur footprints 
found in Australia
Paleontologists from Austra
lia and the United States have 
unearthed evidence showing 
that large dinosaurs inhabited 
southern Australia about 115 
million years ago.
Findings suggest that the 
dinosaurs stood up to 12 feet 
tall and were able to survive in 
temperatures as low as minus 
30C.
Three separate footprints 
measuring up to 14 inches 
in length were discovered in 
southern Australia, close to 
the shoreline of Victoria. Each 
fossil had at least two or three 
visible partial toes. Experts say 
that these dinosaurs lived for 10 
million years during the Creta
ceous period.
Source: Reuters
Ebay launches 
charity investment
Last Wednesday, eBay 
launched a site that allows in
vestors to purchase securities 
that are invested in improving 
living conditions in povertystricken regions around the 
world. MicroPlace by eBay 
(www.microplace.com), allows 
users to invest a minimum of 
$100 in funds aiding develop
ment in these regions.
MicroPlace is the first online 
service through which small 
investors can gain returns on 
their online investments while 
also battling world poverty. 
Its first 10 securities will be 
invested through the Calvert 
Social Investment Foundation, 
in countries such as Tajikistan, 
Cambodia, and Ghana.
Investments mature in two 
to four years, and have an ex
pected yield of 1.5 to 3 percent 
per year.
Source: Reuters
Compiled by 
Jun Xian Leong
How Things Work: Europa
Courtesy of NASA/JPL-Caltech
Scientists have measured an alternating magnetic field around Europa, which suggests the presence of water.
Sheila Prakash
Jupiters moon Europa has 
been an object of fascination 
since 1610, when it was first dis
covered by Galileo.
Despite its icy appearance, 
Europa has proven many times 
to be a potential environment 
for the existence of extraterres
trial life.
The evidence is so compel
ling that it has ignited a wave of 
conferences, research projects, 
and grassroots efforts to field a 
space mission to Europa.
The possibility of finding ex
traterrestrial life on Europas 
surface seems unlikely when 
one considers the hostile en
vironmental conditions that 
characterize the moon.
Nestled on the outskirts of 
the solar system, Europa faces 
temperatures that are too cold 
to sustain a bodys metabolism. 
Hence, Europa is often viewed 
as nothing more than a giant 
ball of ice orbiting Jupiter.
In fact, it took three fly-by mis
sions by spacecrafts Pioneer and 
Voyager in 1970, and Galileo in 
1995, to slowly piece together 
the fact that Europa harbors an 
astonishing secret.
Ground-based spectroscopy 
first revealed that Europa has 
an icy crust roughly that is 150 
kilometers thick. Spectroscopy 
is the study of light wavelengths 
to investigate the properties of 
an object.
Subsequent images from 
Voyager revealed something 
further: Europas icy surface is 
crisscrossed with hundreds of 
intersecting ridges and bands, 
called lineae.
Furthermore, Europas ice 
surface appears to be moving. 
Evidence of mobile icebergs 
from the Galileo spacecraft 
confirmed this notion.
In particular, data from Gali
leos magnetometer, a device 
that measures magnetic fields, 
showed that Europas magnetic 
field flips every several hours.
This finding suggests the 
presence of a conductive sub
stance on Europas surface, 
possibly water. Researchers 
suspect that this conductive 
substance exists three to 12 
miles beneath Europas crust.
The icy deformations on 
Europas surface have been 
analyzed and reanalyzed, re
vealing a myriad of surface 
disruptions and modifications. 
In particular, scientists have 
found evidence of lenticulae
(Latin for freckles), or brown 
spots that are six miles wide.
Scientists have also found 
pits, domes, and chaos regions 
atop Europa, all of which are 
indicative of tidal heating and 
crustal convection.
This evidence has inspired 
scientists to develop detailed 
models of Europas plumes  
hot and active subsurface dia
pers, which are structures that 
rise and fall below Europas 
surface.
Scientists have also been 
hunting for the presence of cryovolcanoes, or volcanoes of ice, 
that would spew this liquid ma
terial to the surface of Europa.
Despite the strong evidence in 
favor of water, questions remain 
about the chemical composition 
of Europas putative ocean.
These questions have led re
searchers to seek out Europa 
analogs on Earth. In particular, 
researchers have explored bod
ies of ice and water in Ellesmere 
Island in the Canadian High 
Arctic, and Lake Vostok in Ant
arctica.
Through an interdisciplinary 
effort involving astronomers, 
geologists, biologists, physi
cists, chemists, and engineers, 
a worldview of Europa has be
gun to emerge.
However, probing a 150-
kilometer ice shell is a mission 
control nightmare  unless 
there are areas of weakness in 
the enveloping crust.
This line of thinking devel
oped into two leading models 
for the thickness of Europas 
ice crust: a thin-crust model 
(Greenberg et al., 2001) in 
which the crust is less than 
a few kilometers thick, and 
a thick-crust model (Pappalardo & Head, 2001) in which 
the crust is over 20 kilometers 
thick.
A further problem has arisen 
out of reaching the bottom of 
the supposed ocean on Europas 
surface Scouring out plankton 
or algae requires an autono
mous submarine to dive under 
the crust and explore Europas 
depths.
In response, several proj
ects have been launched to 
develop such a submarine, one 
of which has taken shape at Car
negie Mellon. The Deep Phreatic 
Thermal Explorer (DEPTHX) is 
an underwater robot designed 
to map out the Zacatn Cenote
 the deepest flooded sinkhole 
in the world  and probe it for 
new and unique organisms.
While scientists continue to 
investigate the possibility of 
water existing beneath Europas 
surface, people on Earth can 
catch a glimpse of Europa from 
the comfort of their homes.
Google Maps Europa is an 
avant-garde mapping project 
put together by Georgia Tech 
doctoral student Peter Pesti.
A panning feature lets users 
seamlessly glide over Europas 
ridges, plains, and mottled ter
rain. The maps magnifying 
tool, usually intended to zoom 
in on interstates, allows for 
endless probing and prodding 
of Europas icy landscape.
Still, the most mysterious 
feature of Europa lies beneath 
its icy exterior, just out of range 
of Pestis project.

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
DESIGN, 
DIGITAL ARTS, 
AND FILM
From the fundamental principles of design, to the fundamental changes of the digital age, success in 
the creative industries starts with the programs in Design, Digital Arts, and Film at New York University's 
School of Continuing and Professional Studies (SCPS). Every one of our programs, from graphic de
sign, to animation, to product designas well as our Master's in Digital Imaging and Designprovides 
you with the expert instruction of our award-winning faculty in the dynamic environment of our ad
vanced digital labs. Best of all, you'll have access to an unparalleled network of industry professionals 
who will inspire your imagination and help you bring it vividly to life.
GRADUATE DEGREES:
 Digital Imaging and Design
 Graphic Communications Management 
and Technology
UNDERGRADUATE DEGREE:
 Digital Communications and Media
CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS:
 Animation
Digitaland Graphic Design
 Film
 Interior Design
 Product Design
CONTINUING EDUCATION:
 Design Fundamentals
 Digital Imaging and Photography 
Film
 Motion Design
 Web and Interactive Design
NYU
SCHOOL OF CONTINUING & PROFESSIONAL STUDIES
At the center of the center of it all
Graduate Information Session:
Wednesday, November 7,6-8 p.m.
NYU Midtown Center, 10th FI., 11W42ndSt. (btwn.5thand6thAves.) 
Please call 212-998-7200 to RSVP.
scps.nyu.edu/x625 i-soo-find nyu, ext.625
tak lMtr? is sn ffim&t aefef&jtui opfcrteij Won. 0300? Ss* Yak Unieaiy Sdiwf d Confinufcg sxf ftsiesssoal $
THIS:
SCI-TECH
scitech@thetartan.org
HIGH-TECH
THEM:
A little professional training 
helps a lot of imagination go a long way.LOW-TECH
$25 million grant to support research, 
education, and labs in the life sciences
ArcelorMittal
Do you believe in the power of boldness? Those 
who are transforming the steel industry do. 
ArcelorMittal is the worlds leading - and only 
truly global - steelmaker. We have grown five
fold sines 2001 and have played the leading role 
in revitafizmg the steel industry. Today, powered 
by extraordinary demand worldwide, steel has 
become one of the fastest growing industries 
in the world. If you believe in boldness and are 
interested injotn^aninspiring work environment 
contact us through the career section on our 
new website www.arcelormittal.com and see 
how you can help us transform tomorrow.
wmt&vehnrittaixxxn
transformingtomorrow
Elaine Lee/Photo Staff
BOLDNESS
The Richard King Mellon Foundation has offered financial support to graduate students in the life sciences.
CHANGES EVERYTHING
perform surgery. McCullough said, We have lots of 
really interesting things going on.
Part of the funding from the LSCF will be directed 
toward the Presidential Scholars Fund, which will 
provide financial support for graduate students.
McCullough said, The students are the fuel, and 
the students are the one who do the work that cre
ates the great scientific studies that come out of 
Carnegie Mellon.
According to McCullough, these studies help Car
negie Mellons faculty become world-renowned, 
and they also make the university more attractive 
to prospective students.
That research and teaching blend that we have 
at Carnegie Mellon and interdisciplinary approach 
becomes attractive to undergraduate students and 
graduate students.
In the past, the Richard King Mellon Founda
tion has supported the university through financial 
contributions to a variety of projects. In 1994, the 
foundation contributed $6 million to the formation 
of the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, a 
center used jointly by Carnegie Mellon and Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. The center focuses on the neural 
underpinnings of cognition, especially cognitive 
development. In 1998, the foundation contributed 
$11 million to the creation of science laboratories 
in Doherty Hall.
This years $25 million LSCF is the largest private 
foundation grant that Carnegie Mellon has ever reGIFT, from A7
Carnegie Mellons Vice President of Research Rich 
McCullough said that the fund will support a num
ber of different disciplines within the life sciences, 
including computational biology, engineering, 
computer science, and biology-based cognition. The 
money will not go toward any one specific project; 
instead, Its going to be open to anything that has 
to do with the life sciences, he said.
McCullough, who was involved in writing and 
presenting the proposal to the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation, said that the grant is geared toward 
strengthening Carnegie Mellons leadership role in 
a range of interdisciplinary subjects. It is also aimed 
at promoting research and student education.
McCullough said that Carnegie Mellon has grown 
tremendously in its life sciences programs over the 
past 10 years and, since the year 2000, Carnegie 
Mellon has hired 50 new faculty members in the 
life sciences. In addition, the university has formed 
two new Ph.D. programs with the University of 
Pittsburgh  one in computational biology and the 
other in biophysics. McCullough said, The Richard 
King Mellon Foundation helped us to make that 
next leap to make us competitive.
McCullough said that researchers at Carnegie 
Mellon are currently investigating the use of com
putational biology to understand different ways of 
attacking cancer. Researchers are also exploring the
hinlncnpal basis nf rncmifinn and pag nf rnbnts

---------------------------------------------------

JOHN W. HART, DDS
NEW PATIENT INVITATION: NOW $55.00!
Includes Gum Evaluation, Bitewing X-Rays, 
Comprehensive Examination, And Basic Cleaning. !
(Only performed in absence of Gum Disease. Regularly $170.00) \
20815hour s/w e8kf5rfr S447 t8kfi8p 2ndokh8n e8kf5rf1O
412-681-8011
200 N. Craig Street  Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Distinguished Entrepreneur Lecture Series Presents
V
Pipeline to Success:
How to Enjoy Endless 
pportunity through Innovation
Successful business leaders see opportunity for 
improvement in everything around them.
Spiros Raftis approached a universal resource - water - and has 
spent his life improving water-related products and creating new 
ones. Learn how Mr. Raftis, founder of Red Valve Company, has 
created a multi-million dollar empire built upon constant improvement 
to everyday processes. Understand his process of innovation and 
begin looking at things in a new way so you can create the next 
big idea or world changing product.
Registration is encouraged and space is limited. Please call 
412.648.1544 or e-mail ieeregistration@katz.pitt.edu by 
October 26 to reserve your space.
Underwritingcomtesy of PNCBANK The Heinz Endowments
Institute for Entrepreneurial ExcellenceUniversity of Pittsburgh
Joseph A !. Katz Graduate School of Business
First Floor. Wesley W. Posvar Hal!  vvvvvv.pittentrepreneur.com
V   ' . ' '
; ' :.
i. . }'.
'
m W a
kbH 1 : 
ail.
Bfl !J fc 4 Cl IS r 1 3 M kK
 ,  .
visit roommateliving.com
illuminate
KASSETT
magazine box with lid
As obsessiv about looking 
after comic books as you are.
SKUBB
hanging storage
;v
mm
I imx: .1
Finally, a roommate that 
helps you dean your room.
IKEA PITTSBURGH  Robinson Town Centre, Parkway West 279,60 North * (412) 747-0747
M-Sat: 10am-9pm, Sun: llam-7pm
03, 7l 39b IKEA ebd3ogeok3 oks 9vb dk# yo37o1ad oks yol7b vok o Wo33oe doaos* 
a3*d yeb ommeso7ab 39ok d3rk1k4 lge me1s4b oks 9ov1k4 lge eyyo3b bo3 oaa m lge ms.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
AoTHE TARTANOctober 29, gooy
/ i V ' i V
QIVB yoCr^T 
THATlX
WB on
Lizzee Solomon/Acting Art Editor
Entropy+ provides healthy, quality food  at a price
Though there was a certain socialist 
charm to the overcrowded aisles and 
empty shelves of the old Entropy, the 
convenience stores rebirth this past 
week is one in a series of changes that 
have improved the quality and diversity 
of food on campus.
The new Entropy+ features 
gluten-free, vegan, and organic brands, 
along with fresh produce, opening up 
dining possibilities for groups with even 
the most specific dietary demands. These 
improvements in variety, paired with the 
opening of Evgefstos! and other dining 
changes, show a true commitment on 
the part of the university to providing 
healthier, higher-quality food.
Beyond selection, Entropy+s size, 
location, and accessibility are all vast 
improvements over the old Entropy. One 
can still enter from both outside or inside 
the University Center, and entrances are 
no longer blocked by the checkout line 
or frantic students waiting to fill their 
coffee cups. The new location is also 
more central to campus, being nearer to 
both the academic buildings and the Hill 
residences.
Despite its move, however, Entropy+s 
prices remain astronomical. Though the 
high costs of the products are perhaps 
the price of convenience, they may only 
encourage theft, which was an ongo
ing problem at the former location. In
turn, the theft only encourages Entropy 
to keep prices high. With the numerous 
entrances and exits at the new location, 
the incidence of five-finger discounts is 
not likely to decline.
In addition, the ability to use DineXtra at Entropy+, while convenient for a 
large part of the campus, has ensured 
that certain shelves are continually 
bare. Even on its first day, with shelves 
full, the store was running severely low 
on necessities like milk and water by 
closing time.
On the whole, the campuss new 
convenience store shows a vast 
improvement, but still fails to solve some 
of its predecessors key problems.
Inconsistent morals from Duquesne University
Planned Parenthood ads advocating 
sex education, including abstinence 
education, were pulled from WDUQ, 
Duquesne Universitys public ra
dio station, on Oct. 10. The call was 
ultimately made by the universitys pres
ident, Charles J. Dougherty, who stated 
that the organizations goal didnt agree 
with the universitys Catholic doctrine. 
After pulling the ad, the university re
turned $5000 in donated funds.
While underwriters (organizations 
that donate money in exchange for on-air 
promotion) are not the stations only 
source of funding, non-profits certainly 
dont have room to be picky And it does 
not seem that WDUQ is picky44 busi
ness and organizations are listed on the
stations website as having made a sub
stantial donation to WDUQ.
One such business is Reproductive 
Health Specialists, which offers infertil
ity treatments to women  something 
that, in 1990, the pope decided did not 
align with the beliefs of the Roman 
Catholic Church. Another is the Bayer 
Corporation, which manufactures 
widely used contraceptives Yasmin 
and Yaz. Under President Doughertys 
criteria, neither of these businesses 
agree with the universitys doctrine  
yet their ads were not pulled.
Furthermore, advertisers engage in 
an exchange with those who administer 
their advertisements  they pay the lat
ter group in exchange for an opportunity
to promote their goods and services. The 
station is not expected to support their 
advertisers on a moral level. WDUQ 
states that the point of underwriters is 
to help advertisers reach targeted de
mographics and communities  not to 
spread the teachings of Catholicism. In 
practice, however, the station seems to 
be singing a different tune.
WDUQ is in need of a divine 
intervention. The station needs to 
treat all underwriters as equals. If the 
station is going to involve morals in its 
decisions about advertisers, it should at 
least be consistent and refuse money 
from all organizations that have values 
that are in conflict with those of the 
Catholism.
Professors should give accurate feedback
In a culture teeming with concern 
about political correctness, its amazing 
that separating students by letters as a 
mark of achievement is still allowed. 
Five of the first six letters of the alphabet 
have long remained an indication of 
intelligence and a source of stress for 
students, especially those at a university 
like Carnegie Mellon.
At mid-semester, a daylong break 
and a letter-grade assessment often 
substitute for an actual progress report. 
At Carnegie Mellon, most profes
sors are good at actually providing a 
mid-semester grade, but we have found 
a few misleading grading habits, includ
ing giving everyone the same grade, re
fusing to give an A, and not explaining 
the grading criteria for mid-semester
grades. Giving everyone the same 
grade doesnt help students improve, 
refusing to give an A is a silly motivation 
technique that prevents some students 
from knowing how well theyre doing, 
and not explaining the criteria for the 
grade makes the whole process of mid
semester grades meaningless.
In an effort to improve themselves, 
it is not uncommon for students to 
question their mid-semester grades  if 
a student wants to be the best he can be, 
he will want to know how to improve.
Mid-semester grades are useless with
out a set of standard guidelines, and can 
even hinder students performances if 
they take the grades at face value as a 
true marker of their successes or fail
ures.
De-emphasis of actual grades has 
become popular recently, usually as 
a way to encourage actual feedback 
that helps a student perform to better 
standards. Were not for this  let
ter grades simplify an identification 
of progress, and provide a standard
ized extrinsic motivation that, ideally, 
everyone can achieve within  but 
grade de-emphasis has its perks in that 
it can paint a real picture of a students 
achievements.
We encourage professors to take 
advantage of the current grading sys
tem more fully. Providing honest and 
accurate mid-semester grades, and ex
plaining the criteria, can only help the 
serious student, while shoddy grading 
can only hinder the serious student.
Benefits of college lag behind 
rapidly incresing tuition costs
In some not-so-shocking news, the 
College Board recently announced that 
the cost of tuition is on the rise. Tuition 
at public and private universities has 
risen more than double the rate of infla
tion. On average, tuition increased 6.6 
percent to $6185 at public four-year col
leges over the last year, while tuition at 
private colleges went up 6.3 percent to 
$23,712.
Although many students nationwide, 
at both public and private institutions, 
receive some sort of financial aid, there 
was also word that assistance will 
become less effective as the cost of col
lege continues to increase. The College 
Board announced that the Federal Pell 
Grant, awarded to students in need, was
essary in our society, particularly for 
underprivileged individuals who may 
not have many opportunities to suc
ceed within their own communities. 
However, unless one possesses a special 
talent, the price tag of college and the 
difficulty of financing an education dis
courages everyone from achieving this 
dream, even if they may be equally as 
deserving.
How can something so essential be so 
out of reach for so many people?
Some recent presidential hope
fuls, along with former presidential 
candidate John Kerry, presented the 
idea of Service for College. This ini
tiative would supply students with free 
college tuition in exchange for two 
years of public service. In addition, the 
program would give students an oppor
tunity to learn outside of a traditional 
classroom setting through service in 
communities. While the feasibility of 
this plan has yet to be proven, these
How can something so essential be so 
out of reach for so many people?
unable to keep pace with inflation for 
the fourth year in a row.
Whether students pay for it 
themselves or get some form of assis
tance, the fact that the cost of college 
has continued (and probably will con
tinue) to increase made me think about 
whether students are actually getting 
their moneys worth. Are the benefits of 
attending college increasing along with 
the expense?
In my opinion, the cost of college 
does not match up with the benefits 
for students. This isnt just about the 
amount of money to attend Carnegie 
Mellon, and its not about my own expe
rience in particular. Its about making 
the college experience accessible and 
worthwhile for all young people, which 
should be the goal of all universities.
Having an undergraduate degree 
is necessary to even be considered for 
most jobs that pay a decent salary. Get
ting some form of higher education 
beyond high school has become necleaders should be commended for at
tempting to make college accessible for 
all young people.
Sandy Baum, a senior analyst for the 
College Board, stated in the recent an
nouncement, The average numbers 
dont tell the story for any individual 
student. This statement was made in 
regard to the fact that each individual 
institution may or may not experience 
their own increase in tuition or room 
and board.
I still feel that anytime there is an 
announcement anywhere that college 
tuition is on the rise, especially when it 
is increasing faster than the consumer 
price index, then all institutions should 
take the time to look at themselves 
and ask whether they are giving back 
enough.
Veronica Milliner (vmilline@) is a se
nior in H&SS who loves to learn, but is 
still kind of iffy about this whole college 
thing.
In defense of religious debate
Steven Weinberg began his Oct. 
15 Reevaluating our motives for 
discrediting other peoples faith article 
with the example of the ardent atheist 
versus the ardent religious person. 
Somehow, this storys villain ends up 
being the one who doesnt consider life 
to be nothing more than one long pass/ 
fail exam for eternal judgment. The ar
ticle then asks what would happen if a 
non-believer effectively persuaded the 
religious person to renounce all of his 
former beliefs?
Mr. Weinberg, from personal experi
ence,. the answer is that the persuaded 
becomes much happier. But that doesnt 
even matter, if you think about it.
The crux of Weinbergs argument 
is that if someone believes it, then it 
must be okay! Never mind happiness, 
Weinberg arrogantly states that moral 
people should never challenge anyones 
opinions regardless.
Wait, scratch that. Weinberg asserts 
that calling on someone to challenge 
her personal beliefs is okay... if youre a 
religious group. He even goes out of his 
way to advocate religious proselytizing, 
because its by its very nature more self
less and benevolent than doing, er, the 
same thing if youre an atheist. Didnt 
Jesus have something important to say
about hypocrites?
What is most infuriating about Wein
bergs bigotry is that its cloaked in 
the guise of defense against perceived 
atheist bigotry. What if I told you that 
it was okay for atheists to ram their 
views down your throats (so long as 
they dont do so forcibly or through ma
nipulation, comes the hollow caveat), 
but youd be immoral to do likewise to 
an atheist? Why, non-belief gives them 
hope and contentment!
This silliness climaxes when Wein
berg speculates that atheists cant 
seriously think theyre doing good by 
criticizing religion. Steve, I will answer 
this query as well: Yes, I do. Atheism is 
the superior worldview. Of course, if 
youre religious, youre allowed to chal
lenge me on that.
Steve: I believe youre wrong. Reli
gious people: I believe youre wrong, 
too. My name is John Ray; I am on Facebook, and I welcome any and all debate 
on this matter. Unlike Steve Weinberg, I 
wont consider you arrogant, smug, 
or a bigot simply because you push a 
contrary view. Welcome to an open so
ciety, Mr. Weinberg.
John Ray (jrray@J is a sophomore stu
dent in H&SS.
THE
KELLY CAHILL, Forum Editor 
SARAH MOGIN, Pillbox Editor
ELIZABETH SCHWARTZ, Managing Editor 
ERIN GAGNON, Sports Editor 
J.W. RAMP, Photo Editor 
MARSHALL ROCH, Online Editor 
GENE KIM, Comics Editor 
LIZZEE SOLOMON, Art Editor *
Carnegie Meltons Student Newspaper Since I906
EDITORIAL BOARD
ANDREW PETERS 
Publisher
SHAWN WERTZ 
Editor-in-Chief
PATRICK GAGE KELLY, Dossier Literary Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
MICHAEL M. WHISTON, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
GREG HANNEMAN, Contributing Editor 
ROBERT KAMINSKI, Contributing Editor 
NIRVI MARU, Business Manager 
JASON KUO, Advertising Manager 
MATTHEW E. CAMPBELL, Copy Manager
KRISTEN LUKIEWSKI, Dossier Design Editor 
CLAIRE MORGENSTERN, News Editor
SABRINA PORTER, Asst. News Editor 
JESSICA THURSTON, Asst. Forum Editor 
MARIUM CHANDNA, Asst. Sci. & Tech. Editor 
MATT SIFFERT, Asst. Pillbox Editor 
RACHAEL CLEMMONS, Production Manager 
MEG KOPPOLU, Asst. Layout Manager 
^Denotes acting postition
Staff
SENIOR STAFF
Michael R. Fitzgerald, Doug Fricker, Matthew Siegel, 
Jiaqi Tan
COPY
Jennifer Altman-Lupu, Christine Beaty, Selena 
Beckman-Harned, Greg Gaudio, Leila Haidari, Nick 
Harper, Lisa Ly, Tara Moore, Helen Park, Hannah 
Wendling
LAYOUT
Melissa Acosta, Jefferson Ahn, Annie Brodie, Lisa 
Chan, Katherine Chin, Ha Jin Choi, Annie Dill, 
Matthew Deutsch, Aaron Gross, Nick Harper, Jessica 
Kaercher, Nikunja Kolluri, Victoriya Kovalchuk, 
Whitney Laczick, Jaclyn Lock, Bobby Lui, Lisa Ly, 
Lizzee Solomon, Shaleya Solomon, Jeffrey Wang
BUSINESS
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, 
funded in part by the student activities fee. It is a weekly publication by 
students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by Valley News 
Dispatch, Inc. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 
at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are available on a per 
semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their individual creators. 
The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publica
tion any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from 
within the University community take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include the author's address and 
telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. 
Authors names may be withheld from publication upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Letters must 
be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
 2007 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Karina Alvarez, Eshna Bhaduri, Tarun Bhan, Priya 
Bishen, Tiffany Cheng, Allison Deasy, Hee Yeon Shin, 
Diana Wong
Office: University Center 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Fax:(412) 268-1596 
Web: www.thetartan.org 
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007Ail
J.K. Rowlings late outing of Dumbledore promotes tolerance
Rachael Clemmons
Ever since the release of the 
final novel in the Harry Potter 
series, Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows, author J.K. 
Rowling has been touring basical
ly every country possible to talk 
about the book. And shes been 
giving out a ridiculous amount 
of information, information that 
should have been included in the 
seventh book.
Harry Potter fans perusing 
fan sites like www.mugglenet. 
com have been able to find 
answers to the burning ques
tions that remained after the 
lengthy pages of Deathly Hallows 
were done. Rowling confessed 
that Death Eaters Dolohov and 
Bellatrix killed Remus and Tonks, 
respectively; the fates of Viktor 
Krum and Dolores Umbridge 
(married and imprisoned, respec
tively); and Nevilles marriage to 
Hannah Abbot, who became the 
landlady of the Leaky Cauldron, 
etc.
Oh, and by the way, 
Dumbledore is gay.
I wish that Rowling would 
have used all of this recent infor
mation in her final Harry Potter 
novel  perhaps it would have 
made the epilogue and all of the 
horrid deaths more bearable. 
Perhaps it is Rowlings attempt to 
maintain the attention shes got
ten in the past years for the Harry 
Potter series  perhaps she fears 
that now that the series is over, 
getting attention will be difficult 
unless she constantly gives away 
more and more. Is Rowling an 
attention-seeking supernovelist?
I think not. If I knew Rowling, 
Id hug her something serious. 
Although I think that she should 
have revealed Dumbledores 
sexuality more explicitly, I am 
glad shes integrated this fact
Severn, pa(u&! mspe/ZMtticponoN 
is FABUIWS
ON /Vtty
in her stories at all. Especially 
because she told an audience of 
adults and children at Carnegie 
Hall. It seems she believes that 
his sexuality is only directly 
relevant to the plot in Deathly 
Hallows because his history with 
Grindelwald is explained. But now 
that I know that Dumbledores 
infatuation with Grindelwald 
was based on Dumbledores actu
al love for him, I think the events 
that followed, and Grindelwalds 
attitude, are more understand
able.
There are a lot of deep things
that people will say about 
Dumbledores homosexuality
 how its awesome that hes a 
role model and a strong figure 
and hes gay, although being 
gay doesnt really affect some
ones ability to be a role model 
or a strong figure, just like being 
black or being a female doesnt 
stop me from being amazing. 
People will say its amazing that 
Rowling is teaching children 
tolerance, teaching children to 
respect homosexuality. Rowlings 
approach is for people to ask 
. themselves  why would it matLizzee Solomon/Acting Art Editor
ter if he is gay or not? It doesnt 
affect his ability as a headmaster 
or a wizard. We dont know any
thing about the sex lives of any of 
the teachers, really.
Other people will trash 
Rowling, saying that she 
is promoting homosexual
ity, like Bill OReilly, the infa
mous shit talker. According to 
www.thinkprogress.org, OReilly 
is suspicious of Rowling, and he 
says that she did this on purpose. 
He says that a lot of American 
parents are worried about 
Rowlings agenda and basically
that she doesnt have a right to 
expose children to homosexual
ity.
But isnt that Rowlings point? 
Dumbledore isnt defined by his 
homosexuality, and while his 
love for Grindelwald makes him 
vulnerable to an extent, so did 
Snapes love for Lily. And that 
was a heterosexual love and look 
how that turned out. OReillys 
blatant ignorance shows that 
Rowlings theme of tolerance is 
completely necessary.
Personally, I think its 
generally rad that Dumbledore 
is gay. Im not too deep and Im 
not a hater, but I am tempted 
to run in the streets shouting, 
DUMBLEDORE IS GAY! I 
havent yelled it in the streets 
yet, but I have screamed it in the 
UC and in my apartment, most
ly because the streets are too 
cold right now. But this is really 
exciting. Not only is Rowlings 
revelation an attempt to include 
a range of diverse individuals 
in the series, its just generally 
amazing. Its odd in the context 
of Rowling revealing all of this 
information too late, promising 
not to write another book for the 
series (though she might write 
an encyclopedia about the Harry 
Potter series) but then revealing 
crucial information that gives 
people closure on the book.
Honestly, Ms. Rowling, you 
should just give in and do 
another book. You know you 
want to. Dont fight the feeling.
Anyway, its too bad 
Dumbledore and Grindelwald 
didnt have a hot make-out scene. 
Because that of all things would 
have been the best closure that 
Harry Potter could offer.
This is the most serious arti
cle that Rachael Clemmons 
frclemmon@J has ever written. 
She hopes you can take her opin
ion somewhat seriously, because 
she means business.
Stravinskys revolutionary ballet should inspire progressive thought
()
n CvnCynthia Peng
I once attended a performance 
of Igor Stravinskys moving, 
monumental work, Le Sacre 
du Printemps, or 'The Rite of 
Spring. The piece is best known 
as the music during the story 
of the growth of life on Earth 
in Disneys Fantasia. The eccen
tric and acclaimed 20th-century 
Russian composers risqu, con
troversial ballet told of an ancient 
pagan rite. A circle of sage elders 
watch a young girl, the chosen 
one, dance herself to death as 
a sacrifice to the god of spring. 
Its shocking images of human 
sacrifice, clashing chords, and 
unconventional tonal structure 
caused a riot at its 1913 Paris 
premiere.
Stravinskys work, whether 
intended or not, serves as com
mentary on our society. The 
piece depicts an ancient pagan 
rite in musical and balletic form. 
It is with history and art fused 
together into such an innovative 
creation such as Rite that one 
can fully appreciate the great 
strides we have made as a human 
society. In such spirits, should we
not adorn Earth, as Stravinsky 
suggests, for advancement and 
progress?
Appreciative of the fact that 
we no longer dance a young girl 
to death as a massive 200-piece 
orchestra and their conductor 
kill her simultaneously, we 
still are not the most progres
sive, open-minded society. Many 
of us still hold the mind-set that a 
woman cannot serve as president 
of the United States.
Our country just isnt ready for 
a woman president right now is 
the sour complaint expressed by 
an alarming number of individu
als. Perhaps we are not at this very 
moment and perhaps not with 
the current candidate pool, but 
if we as enterprising Americans 
and members of humanity cease 
to push for continual progress of 
equality and advancement, prin
ciples of American ideology, then 
who will? When are we going to 
be ready? Why not soon?
Decades ago, people prob
ably thought, Our country just 
isnt ready for women to vote 
right now. Millennia ago, the 
sage elders in Stravinskys bal
let probably also thought, Our 
civilization just isnt ready to 
stop sacrificing young girls right 
now. If we continually reject the 
very notion of having a female
lead our nation without regard 
to her merits and competence, 
how are we advancing society 
from Stravinskys days? Are we 
not infringing upon her right to 
be judged as a person of morals 
and policy, sans blatant sexual 
discrimination? Are we not still 
practicing the rite of lowering 
women? If we do not possess at 
least an air of open-mindedness, 
how is any progress to be made?
By nature, we are one to mainnot have imagined that its jar
ring, dissonant musical structure, 
a far cry from the tonal fulfill
ment of Beethoven or the lush 
harmonies of Mahler, would not 
only be accepted but celebrated 
in years to come, much like peo
ple years ago who could not have 
imagined granting women the 
right to vote and those today who 
cannot imagine a woman leading 
America.
In the present, the once-conIf we do not possess at least an air 
of open-mindedness, how is any 
progress to be made?
tain the status quo. People are 
reluctant to have a force disrupt 
their established comfort of rou
tine. If that force is radical in 
nature, a considerable proportion 
of society will resist its progres
sive means, unwilling to adapt 
to its shocking new implications, 
as evidenced by the Parisian 
audience at the premiere of 
Rite who rioted at its departure 
from conventionality, ignoring its 
significance in the advancement 
of the arts and its rightful place in 
orchestral literature. They could
troversial piece whose audience 
members left mid-performance 
is a favorite of major symphony 
orchestras and a staple in concert 
halls. It goes to show that one 
can adapt to change. If a strong, 
competent female character, the 
metaphorical Rite of Spring in 
the political arena, decides to run 
for the presidency of the United 
States, shall we blatantly walk 
out on her, too? If we as human
kind could not overcome this 
contemptuous prejudice toward 
the new and unconventional in
the hopes of bettering society, 
then works such as Rite would 
not have gained acclaim, but 
it has defeated the obstacle of 
the obdurate mind. It takes art 
and culture to show politics that 
such change is indeed possible; 
it takes bold characters, the 
metaphorical Igor Stravinsky, to 
dare to stimulate that change.
From the primeval scenes of 
Nijinskys ballet choreography 
at the Thtre des Champslyses to Disneys depiction of 
dinosaurs grazing in Fantasia, 
have we not come a long way 
since man and animals primi
tive days? The second half of 
Stravinskys work is titled Le 
Sacrifice.  We are currently not 
practicing the literal sacrifice of 
young girls to fulfill an outdated 
rite, but in a sense, are we not 
sacrificing our dignity and moral 
sense for a chauvinistic mainte
nance of narrow-mindedness?
Today, nearly a century after 
it was composed, Stravinskys 
work still has the power to 
shock, writes a music critic. 
And in a more subtle manner, 
it still has the power to instigate 
forward, intellectual, progres
sive thought.
Cynthia Peng ('cynthiap@J) is a 
first-year SHS student.
Presidential
Perspectives
Accreditation, 
elections reform, 
and office hours
Sean Weinstock & Adi Jain
So, first of all, welcome back 
to sunny Pittsburgh! Hopefully 
mid-semester break was a good 
time and provided us all with 
great stories that everyone will 
be telling and retelling from now 
until Thanksgiving.
For us, the past couple of weeks 
were somewhat of a transition 
period in between setting proj
ects up and starting to negotiate 
change.
We did get a chance to meet 
with Gloriana St. Clair, the dean 
of the libraries, to catch up on 
the schools preparations for 
the Middle States Commission 
on Higher Education (MSCHE) 
accreditation efforts. In case 
you didnt hear what thats all 
about, MSCHE defines itself 
on its website as a voluntary, 
non-governmental, membership 
association that defines, main
tains, and promotes educational 
excellence across institutions 
with diverse missions, student 
populations, and resources.
As one of the volunteer 
schools, we go up for review 
every five years. So far, things 
are going well, and we should 
be done drafting all the written 
pieces for MSCHE soon. Beyond 
the accreditation, we also spoke 
to Gloriana about an interest in 
creating cheaper ways to copy 
paper documents in the library. 
We'got some insight into the 
copying and scanning businesses 
and are pursuing channels that 
balance financial concerns with 
ease of use.
In addition to our efforts to
ward accreditation, last Friday 
we held our first Elections Reform 
Committee meeting. Together 
with the other representatives, 
we gained a great deal of per
spective on what happened in 
the last election period. The goal 
is to create a sustainable election 
system that will not fail the stu
dent body. Part of reaching that 
goal is also looking at backups 
for cases in which something be
yond the control of the Elections 
Board occurs. It will be a very in
teresting project, and we hope to 
have a solidified solution by the 
beginning of December.
Along with Joel Bergstein, we 
also took advantage of our first 
chance to hold student body 
executive office hours. It was a 
great experience. We sat out
side the University Center for 
several hours two weeks ago 
gaining perspective from every
one willing to share. We believe 
that were moving along in a di
rection that will definitely yield 
improvements for this campus. 
However, as weve pointed out 
in every Presidential Perspec
tives weve written, that could 
be a misconception.
Please e-mail us at cmu5@ 
cmu.edu if you have any issues to 
bring up.
Pittsburghs gray skies are starting to arrive. So we asked,
What is your favorite rainy day activity?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jesse Kummer
Ben Morse
First-year 
ECE .
Star Wars reenactments.
Ashley Kilp
Sophomore
Chemistry
Play classical guitar.
Pouja Ahuja
Senior
Chemical engineering 
Shop online.
Jake Zien Camly Tran
First-year Junior
Design Chemistry
Taking everything out of my dorm and Sleeping.
putting it in backwards.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
Football improves UAA record with two winsTartan volleyball beats 
Dallas in three games
Mingwei Tay/Photo Staff
Sophomore running back David Babcock (#28) scrambles for the ball against the Washington University Bears.
VOLLEYBALL, from A14
in three straight games (16-30, 
20-30, 22-30).
The Tartans followed up the 
loss with another loss, this time 
to Cal State. Though Carnegie 
Mellon picked up the victory in 
the first game 30-24, they fell 
in the next three games (30-18, 
30-28, 31-29).
Carter put up 48 assists, 
while Amaechi, Toney, and 
sophomore middle hitter Jessica 
Brackin tallied 10, 12, and 13 
kills, respectively.
In the third match of the tour
nament, the Tartans once again 
fell to a sweep by La Verne. La 
Verne defeated Carnegie Mellon 
by scores of 30-27, 30-18, and 
30-19.
We have a lot of work to do at 
practice this week, Toney said. 
Weve fallen into a rut and cant 
seem to figure out how to pull 
ourselves into the win column 
when we play good teams.
The Tartans did not come 
away from the Juniata tour
nament empty-handed. In the 
last match, Carnegie Mellon 
defeated familiar rival Eastern 
College in three straight games 
(30-15, 30-13, 30-26). Carter 
distributed 32 assists through
out the match.
This past weekend, the Tartans
participated in the Wittenberg 
tournament. Carnegie Mellon 
finished the weekend with a re
cord of 1-1, bringing the season 
record to 17-14.
On Friday, the Tartans squared 
off against the University of Dal
las, winning the match in three 
straight games (30-25, 30-15, 
and 30-19). Size (11), senior 
Katie Stepp (11) and Amaechi 
(10) all scored double digit kills. 
Carter tallied 38 assists on the 
day
On Saturday, the Tartans 
faced fifth-ranked Carthage Col
lege. The Tartans could not take 
the match, as they fell in three 
straight games (30-21, 30-27, 
30-19). For the defense, firstyear Cameron Griffin produced 
15 digs during the match.
Carthage was decent, but 
by all means beatable, and we 
let them have too many runs, 
Toney said.
The Tartans conclude their 
season this weekend at the Uni
versity Athletic Association 
championship tournament in 
Rochester, N.Y.
We are in a really good place 
for the UAAs, Toney said. If 
we can put away three matches 
in pool play versus Wash. U., 
Rochester, and Case, we will 
be playing for first place in the 
conference.
FOOTBALL, fromA14
Doo, who reeled the ball in for a 
40-yard touchdown reception.
We came into the game want
ing to run a lot because we knew 
they play the pass really well, 
Doo said. We run the ball well 
so we started off with that, but 
when we saw an opportunity to 
pass we threw it.
Bodnar made a big play on the 
defensive side of the ball, inter
cepting Smith to set up Carnegie 
Mellons final points of the game. 
The Tartans ensuing drive 
ended with a 20-yard field goal 
from junior kicker Colin Marks to 
make it 18-7 with 10:10 to play 
in regulation.
I actually think the quarter
back threw it to a guy behind 
me, Bodnar said about his in
terception. I just stopped and 
I was right there. Running the 
ball, tell you what  every time
I see somebody near me, its two 
hands. Im not going to lose it.
Wash. U. made things inter
esting late in the fourth quarter 
by cutting the lead to 18-13 
with 4:07 remaining. The Bears 
elected to kick off deep to the 
Tartans and try to force a punt 
instead of attempting an onside 
kick.
The Tartans ran out the clock 
by managing to get a couple of 
crucial first downs to prevent the
Bears from getting an opportu
nity to retake the lead.
I think our kids showed a lot 
of character offensively on that 
last drive getting those last two 
first downs to run out the clock, 
Lackner said. When they kicked 
off deep, they thought that 
they could stop us. Our offense 
took that as a challenge and 
they responded.
Sivek again shouldered the 
workload for the Tartans, motor
ing for 122 yards on 36 carries. 
Defensively, the Tartans were led 
by senior linebacker Trent Sis
sons 10 tackles and senior safety 
Jon Scholls nine.
We play Wash. U. so much 
[that] its definitely our biggest ri
valry, Bodnar said. We tried to 
build off our first half. We knew 
if we came out and did our job in 
the second half they wouldnt be 
able to move the ball.
This win over Wash. U. is 
huge/ Doo said. We were down 
on ourselves, having four losses 
in a row. To come back, win a 
couple in a row, and get back on 
the winning side is really nice. 
Its huge; were really happy 
about it.
It feels great right now, Bod
nar said. Were playing the way 
we should be flaying.
The Tartans will be back in 
action on Saturday when they 
travel to West Virginia to play 
the Bison of Bethany College at
1 p.m.
Senior Alex Kinzler swims the 200-yard breaststroke. Kinzler finished third 
in Saturdays meet with a time of 2:33.43.
SWIMMING, from A13
and 2:14.19, respectively. Fel
low sophomore Andrew Seo 
took third in both breaststroke 
races with times of 1:00.48 and 
2:16.43, respectively.
Sophomore John Johnson 
collected a couple of third-place 
finishes in the 100- and 200-yard 
backstrokes with times of 54.69 
and 1:58.47, respectively.
We have a very large team 
with a lot of depth. We depended
on that depth to help us win the 
meet, Douglass said. We not 
only depended on people to win 
events but also to get second and 
third in order to keep the score 
close.
On the womens'side, first-year 
Molly Evans began her Carnegie 
Mellon career by winning the 
200-yard freestyle (1:54.96), the 
200-yard backstroke (2:05.71), 
and the 200-yard IM (2:11.92). 
She set a new school record in 
the backstroke, surpassing Emily
Tongs 2005 record of 2:12.75.
The women swept the 200- 
yard' butterfly, with senior Anna 
Kochalko (2:14.78) taking first, 
and first-years Rebecca Ussai 
(2:19.87) and Noelle Helmstetter 
(2:20.98) taking second and 
third, respectively. Ussai went 
on to place third in the 100-yard 
butterfly with a time of 1:02.61.
Junior Becky Martz won the 
1000- and 500-yard freestyles 
with times of 11:14.47 and 
5:27.03, respectively. Kochalko 
finished second in the 1000-yard 
freestyle (11:14.47), and third in 
the 500-yard freestyle (5:29.30).
Senior Lauren Connell won 
silver in the 50- and 100-yard 
freestyles with times of 25.03 
and 55.24, respectively. Junior 
Colleen Murphy took bronze 
in the 100- and 200-yard back
strokes with times of 1:05.17 and 
2:21.10, respectively.
Junior Charlotte Jennings 
(188.20 points) placed second 
in the one-meter dive behind 
Clarion diver Kayla Kelosky 
(248.25).
The Carnegie Mellon A team 
of Connell, sophomore Sara An
drews, first-year Brianne Burton, 
and junior Allison Retotar took 
second in the 200-yard freestyle 
relay (1:42.61) behind the Clar
ion A team (1:38.89).
The swimming and diving 
teams will travel to Grove City 
College Saturday, Nov. 10, to 
take on the Wolverines at 1 p.m.
I think the season outlook is 
great, Douglass said. We have 
very high goals for this year, like 
challenging for the UAA team 
championship and qualifying 
more people for nationals. This 
meet is a good sign that we are 
on track to do both of those.
MENS, from A14
On Sunday, Brandeiss Taylor 
Bracken thwarted a Carnegie 
Mellon scoring chance in the 
52nd minute thanks to a great 
save. Haselhoff blasted a 'shot 
from 15 yards out only to have < 
Bracken turn the shot away.
Bazin made a couple saves 
to preserve the scoreless game. 
Bazin reacted quickly to stop a
header from Kyle Gross off a cor
ner kick in the 71st minute and 
then used his reflexes to block a 
shot from Stephen Kostel in the 
74th minute.
, The Tartans nearly took the 
lead at the end of regulation as 
Brackley headed the ball into the 
net only to have the goal called 
off because of a penalty.
Each team had a scoring op
portunity in the two 10-minute
overtimes with neither material
izing into a goal.
It was a tough game against 
Brandeis  tough competition, 
but we didnt put it fully together 
and put a goal away, Browne 
said.
The mens soccer team will 
wrap up their regular season 
Saturday when they travel to 
Atlanta to play the Emory Uni
versity Eagles.
Sophomore defender David Drochner goes in.for a tackle against NYUs defense during Friday's game.
Runners compete at UAA championship
RUNNING, from A14
Carolyn Clayton led her team to 
finish 26th overall with a time of 
24:16. First-year Rebecca Hachey 
and sophomore Anna Lenhart 
placed 43rd and 50th overall 
with times of 25:20 and 25:32, 
respectively.
First-year Kristen Staab took 
53rd overall with a time of 25:39. 
Behind Staab, junior Chrissy 
Krutz placed 55th overall with 
a time of 25:42. First-year Laura
McKee and senior Erin Gagnon 
finished 60th and . 63rd overall 
with times of 26:01 and 26:08, 
respectively.
Senior Ashley Bakelmun 
took 72nd overall with a time 
of 27:50. Junior Rachel Perry 
and first-year Amal El-Ghazaly 
finished 74th and 76th overall 
with times of 28:14 and 28:47, 
respectively.
This meet, our team did 
a great job working together 
throughout the race, Krutz said.
Hopefully the large pack we 
had with our middle runners can 
move up even closer to Carolyn 
in the next race.
The Tartans will travel to 
Bethlehem, Pa. for the important 
NCAA Division III Mideast Re
gional on Saturday, Nov. 10. The 
top teams from the regional will 
advance to the National Cham
pionships at St. Olaf College in 
Minnesota.
Editors Note: Erin Gagnon is a 
member of The Tartan staff.
RUN JUMP,HIT, SWIM,
sports@thetartan.org
Swim team hosts Clarion UniversitySoccer loses to NYU, ties Brandeis

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 29, 2007
Swimming and diving 
opens 2007 season
Dan Spangenberger/Photo Staff
First-year Travis Piper swims the 100-yard butterfly during the dual meet 
against Clarion. Piper finished first with time of 54.55.
by Erin Gagnon
Sports Editor
The swimming and diving 
teams hosted Division II Clarion 
University Saturday to open 
their 2007 season. The mens 
team tallied 155 points to de
feat the Eagles by 20 points. 
The womens team fell short of a 
team victory, totaling 120 points 
to Clarions 180.
For the men, the 200-yard 
medley relay A team began the 
meet with a second-place finish 
(1:39.19) behind the Clarion A 
team (1:36.69).
The Tartans team consisted 
of juniors Ryan Piper and Brad 
Henderson, first-year Tra
vis Piper, and senior Michael 
Bailey.
Travis Piper went on to win 
the 100-yard butterfly with a 
time of 54.55. Bailey (49.48) 
took third in the 100-yard free
style, behind junior Ron Papa 
(48.98) who took second.
Carnegie Mellon swept the 
1000-yard freestyle and the - 
200-yard butterfly. In the 1000- 
yard freestyle, junior Tom 
McConnell took first with a time 
of 9:59.16, while sophomore Jo
nas Altman-Kurosaki (10:10.38) 
and first-year Frank Olechniwicz (10:18.05) took second and 
third, respectively.
In the 200-yard butterfly, firstyear Justin Whaley (1:59.98),
and sophomores Andrew Weitz 
(2:02.28) and Scott Moorby 
(2:03.79) took first, second, and 
third, respectively.
We knew going in that they 
had some very talented swim
mers and that it was going to 
be a close meet, co-captain An
drew Douglass said. The lead 
changed multiple times during 
the meet and we had some very 
good races.
McConnell went on to win 
the 500-yard freestyle with a 
time of 4:52.14, while Olechniwicz placed third with a time 
of 5:00.23. Weitz took second 
in the 200-yard IM (2:02.45) 
behind first-year Alex Hanson 
(2:00.82).
[McConnell] had dominating 
performances in both the 500 
and 1000, Douglass said. Both 
of his times were remarkable for 
this early in the season and both 
match some of his best in season 
times from all of last year.
In the one-meter dive, sopho
mores Joe Kopko (188.80 points) 
and Matt Kuhn (155.30) took 
second and third, respectively, 
behind Clarion diver Clayton 
Bowers (243.95). Kopko also 
took second behind Bowers in 
the three-meter dive.
Sophomore Jason Huber took 
first in the 100-yard breaststroke 
and second in the 200-yard 
breaststroke with times of 59.84
See SWIMMING, page A12
Crew team rows at Head of the Charles Regatta
by Erin Gagnon
Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon rowing 
club traveled to Boston, Mass., 
to compete at the Head of the 
Charles Regatta Saturday,. Oct.
20, and Sunday, Oct. 21. Over 
8200 individuals in more than 
1700 boats competed along the 
three-mile course on the Charles 
River.
This regatta is the most 
well-attended regatta in the 
world, junior co-captain Brian 
McGraw said. Its considered 
an honor by many just to be able 
to row in it. The competition for 
the most part is top-notch, with 
Ivy League schools, competitive
boat clubs, and national teams 
participating.
Competition included Dart
mouth College; Yale, Cornell, 
and Columbia universities; the 
Riverside Boat Club; the New 
York Athletic Club; the Penn 
Athletic Club; the Undine Barge 
Club; and the Canadian national 
team.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
took 22nd out of 32 teams in the 
womens collegiate four with a 
time of 20:47.120. The womens 
team consisted of sophomore 
Alex Cirillo, first-years Susan An
derson, Alyssa Fogel, and Alexa 
Zinn, and sophomore coxswain 
Tom Lewkowitz. Marquette Uni
versity won the race with a time 
of 19:19.167.
On Sunday, the mens light
weight four finished in 23rd 
place with a time of 20:17.891. 
The team consisted of senior 
Adam Goldhammer, McGraw, 
junior Chris Herlich, sophomore 
Zach Frenchek, and junior cox
swain Elliot Beltzer. The New 
York Athletic Club won the race 
with a time of 16:29.091.
The Tartan womens light
weight four took 12th out of 18 
teams with a time of 20:08.360. 
Carnegie Mellon beat out local 
competition Duquesne Univer
sity, which came in 13th place 
with a time of 20:12.955. The 
Undine Barge Club of Philadel
phia won the event with a time of 
18:32.293.
The womens lightweight boat
consisted of juniors Judith Vo
gel, Natalie Weir, and Danielle 
Millett, first-year Hannah Vogel, 
and first-year coxswain Anthea 
Fernandes.
Carnegie Mellon was sup
posed to compete at the Head of 
the Schuylkill Regatta in Phila
delphia, Pa. last Saturday, but 
the regatta was canceled due to 
weather concerns.
The rowing club is scheduled 
to compete at the Head of the 
Occoquan in Fairfax, Va., this 
Saturday and Sunday.
I hope that the weather coop
erates and allows us to race next 
weekend, and that our novice 
boats perform well in their first 
regatta outside of Pittsburgh, 
McGraw said.
Soccer falls to Brandis, tallying second UAA loss
WOMENS, from A14
said. Our players came out de
termined and when they went 
out they each did their job early 
and well.
It was a slightly different story 
Sunday when the Tartans hosted 
Brandeis University at Gesling 
Stadium. There were very few 
shots on goal early in the game, 
though Howard arched a shot 
from across the field and nearly 
30 yards out that just cleared the
top bar.
The Tartans finally managed 
to get on the board in the 40th 
minute when Stever continued 
her hot streak, scoring in her 
third consecutive game, as she 
took one touch to put the ball 
away after a missed header on 
a Howard pass gave Stever a 
clear path to the ball;, which she 
squeezed perfectly between the 
post and goalie.
The defensive chess match 
continued as neither team was
able to get anything going on 
offense until the 62nd minute, 
when Brandeis midfielder Jenna 
Lipawsky was able to score on 
a high hit near the far post that 
was just out of the reach of Tar
tan goalkeeper Anya Rosen.
Brandeis finished off the Tar
tans with the final goal of the day 
in the 86th minute when senior 
midfielder Tzlil Castel was left 
uncovered in the center of the 
goalie box and rifled a shot to the 
right post that Rosen wasnt able
to get her hands on.
It was a tough game. We had 
big expectations going in, but we 
didnt come together in the end, 
junior defender Mary Ashe said. 
Its a setback, but these things 
happen and it doesnt mean were 
out of anything yet. Its important 
we put this behind us and not let 
it affect who we are as a team.
On Saturday, the team will 
travel to Atlanta for their final 
game of the season against 11thranked Emory University.
IIV1
NEWS
Administration
Director: Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214 or mma8@
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike@ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 
or kiryk@
Student President: Akil Simon, 
asimon@
Important Dates
Thursday, Nov. 1  Rosters due
for dodgeball in the IM Office 
by 4:30 p.m.
Monday, Nov. 5  Co-rec bad
minton playoffs start.
Sunday, Nov. 11 - 
playoffs begin.
Sports Completed
Bowling
Flag Football  The finals were 
held Wednesday, Oct. 17. The 
champions were Beta Nordog 
(majors) and MRU-Greatest 
Show on Turf (minors).
Sports in Season
Tennis  The playoffs started 
last week and will wrap up with
the finals this week.
Co-Rec Badminton  The 
regular season ends this week. 
Playoffs will be posted by noon 
Friday and will start Monday 
evening.
Bowling  The last day of the 
regular season is Sunday. Play
offs will be Sunday, Nov. 11. 
Brackets will be available Tues
day, Nov. 6 after 6 p.m.
Water Polo  The season has 
started in the UC pool. Please 
listen to the lifeguard on duty.
Soccer  The season is under
way at the intramural and sta
dium fields. Please stay off fields
during varsity practices.
Foosball  Schedules are out. 
Please report scores to the IM 
Office by the due date.
Co-Rec VolleyballThe season 
has started in the UC.
Team Call Pool, Team Table 
Tennis, Darts  Schedules are 
available at the IM Office. Please 
report all scores by due dates.
Rosters can* be submitted in 
person to the IM Office by 4:30 
p.m. on the due date, or elec
tronically through the athletics 
department website. All web 
entries are due 24 hours prior to 
the posted deadline.
1Stu tiPa nda dPieny
ART THESE DAYS. So you
can see why some of them 
might accidentally confuse 
a ja2;z, legend named Duke 
with royalty named duke. 
But its finally time to set 
the record straight.
Edward Kennedy Duke'" 
Ellington didnt rule over 
a small English estate. 
Instead he reigned supreme 
over ja^z; institutions like 
The Cotton Club. He riffed
-'-"y 
A piano player. A composer. An orchestra leader, 
Duke Ellington reigned over a land called Jazz.
powerfully on the piano, but it was the full j really transform 
orchestra that he considered his most compelling \ In fact, the more art kids get, 
instrument. He introduced improvisation to his j : the smarter they become 
compositions  a process unheard of j in subjects like math and 
using a 15'piece orchestra. The result  science. And the more 
was a different approach to jaz;2; that
Sentimental Mood," and 
Take the A Train. His 
historical concert in 1953 at 
the Newport Jaz Festival 
has entered the lexicon of 
legendary live performances. 
There is no doubt about it, 
Ellingtons brand of jazz 
has contributed significantly 
to the American songbook 
and to the lives of anyone 
who has ever tapped their 
foot to a beat.
Jaz^; is art, you dig? Art can 
lives. :..... .
RoyddukesaresqwminiU. sparked a revolution and an evolution. 
They have no rhythm.
And they wear crowns. His music spread across the world 
with songs like Sophisticated Lady, In a
Give your kids a chance 
to succeed. Up their 
daily dose of art.
likely theyll become well: 
rounded, cool members of : 
society. For Ten Simple Ways to get more art in 
kids lives, visit AmericansForTheArts.org.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
A14. _________________________________________THE TARTAN_________________________________________________October 29 207
Mens cross country team 
takes second at UAAs
by Sam Kim
Staffwriter
On Saturday, the Carnegie Mel
lon cross country teams traveled 
to Brandeis University in Boston 
to compete in the University Ath
letic Association Championships. 
The lth-ranked mens team 
continued to dominate, finishing 
second out of eight teams with 68 
points. The number-two ranked 
New York University won the 
championship with a record-low 
20 points.
The womens team took seventh 
out of eight teams with 198 points, 
while Washington (Mo.) Univer
sity won the team championship 
with 31 points.
Despite the rainy conditions, 
the mens team saw five runners 
in the top 20. Junior Brian Harvey 
continued to impress, leading the 
team to finish fourth overall with 
a time of 25:16. Fifth-year Geoff 
Misek took 10th with a time of 
25:49 and sophomore Dario Donatelli placed 15th overall with a 
time of 26:01.
u
Juniors Ryan Anderson and 
Breck Fresen finished 19th and 
20th both with a time of 26:08. 
Junior Mike Condon ran an im
pressive personal-best time of 
26:19 to take 29th overall.
The course was a mess. I didnt 
even bother to put dry socks 
on after my warm-up because I 
knew theyd be wet after my first 
step, Condon said. Even though 
the conditions werent ideal, it 
was still fun running in the mud 
and just enjoying the added 
dimension.
First-years Dan Addis and J.P. 
Allera continued to have strong 
rookie seasons, finishing 41st and 
42nd overall both with a time of 
26:38. Senior Mark Tressler and 
sophomore Chris Rizzo finished 
71st and 72nd overall with times 
of 28:00 and 28:03, respectively.
If this team runs as well as its 
capable of, it could easily be the 
best finish in school history, and 
thats what we all want to see, 
Condon said.
On the womens side, junior
See RUNNING, page A13fc .
Full Name:
Jessica Brackin 
Age:
19
Hometown:
Westchester, Pa. 
Major/College: 
Mechanical Engineering/ rTT
by Christina Collura
Staffwriter
So far this season, the 
Carnegie Mellon womens vol
leyball team has recorded an 
overall record of 17-14, 4-3 in 
University Athletic Association
Football breaks losing streak with two wins
#
Zhiquan Yeo/Photo Staff
Senior Robert Gimson (#21) gets yardage against Washington University (Mo.) in the Homecoming game.
by Doug Fricker
Senior Sports Staff
The Carnegie Mellon football 
team snapped their four-game 
losing streak and kept their 
University Athletic Associa
tion (UAA) title hopes alive 
with two victories against UAA 
opponents.
The Tartans earned a 21-0 
road victory over the University of 
Chicago Oct. 20 before returning 
home and defeating Washington 
(Mo.) University 18-13 this past
Saturday, during Homecoming 
weekend. The wins propelled the 
Tartans to 4-4 overall and 2-1 in 
the UAA.
Against Chicago (3-4), the 
Tartans scored first early in the 
second quarter when senior run
ning back Robert Gimson ran the 
ball in from 4 yards out. Cling
ing to the 7-0 lead early in the 
second half, the Tartans forced 
a Maroon turnover when junior 
cornerback Steve McGovern in
tercepted a pass. Senior fullback 
Travis Siveks 1-yard touchdown 
run allowed the Tartans to capi
talize on the Chicago miscue, up
ping their lead to 14-0 midway 
through the third quarter.
The Tartans regained pos
session and marched down the 
field, scoring another touchdown 
at the end of the third quarter. 
Siveks second touchdown run of 
the game made the score 21-0 in 
favor of Carnegie Mellon.
The Tartan defense collected 
its first shutout of the season, 
thanks to its ability to shut down 
the Maroons running game and 
an ability to force five Chicago 
turnovers on the day.
Sivek and Gimson each 
eclipsed the 100-yard rushing 
mark, as Gimson scampered for 
113 yards and Sivek pounded 
out 111 on the ground. Senior 
linebacker Jonathan Bodnar 
and junior linebacker Jim Sands 
had six tackles apiece to lead the 
defense.
Against Wash. U. (6-2), it was 
the Tartan defense that collected 
the first points of the game. Ju
nior defensive lineman Clay 
Crites and junior linebacker Dan 
Falkenstein sacked Bears quar
terback Buck Smith in his own 
end zone for a safety.
Wash. U. responded with a 
touchdown to take the lead at 
7-2 early in the second quarter. 
The score remained 7-2 heading 
into half time.
During halftime there were 
some adjustments that coach 
Bodnar made and there were 
some adjustments that coach 
Erdelyi made, Tartan head 
coach Rich Lackner said. We 
challenged our kids at halftime. 
We told them it would be a 60- 
minute game from the start.
Carnegie Mellon came out 
strong in the second half. A oneyard touchdown run by Sivek 
gave the Tartans the lead at 8-7. 
The Tartans mixed things up a 
bit late in the third quarter, con
necting on a long touchdown 
pass to increase their lead to 
15-7. Sophomore quarterback 
Phil Pantalone faked the handoff 
and threw a deep pass to streak
ing senior wide receiver Jeremy
See FOOTBALL, page A12
Mens soccer team beats Point Park, falls to NYU
box from the left side and Bogus 
one-timed the cross into the net 
past the goalkeeper. The score 
stayed at 1-0 for the remainder 
of the first half.
The Tartans wasted no time 
adding to their lead after halftime when Brackley scored 42 
seconds into the half. Sophomore 
forward Ricky Griffins cross from 
the left side found Brackley mov
ing toward the far post where 
he was able to one-time the ball 
into the goal. Griffin scored his 
team-leading 11th goal of the 
season in the 61st minute when 
he redirected a shot from firstyear midfielder Max Betzig with 
his head.
Sophomore Keith Haselhoff 
scored his first career goal in the 
90th minute when he went up 
to play a long lob from sopho
more midfielder Ryan Browne 
following a free kick. Haselhoff 
out-jumped the goalkeeper and 
headed the ball into the net to 
make it 4-0.
Our non-conference record 
was important last year, Browne 
said. One of the main reasons 
we didnt get into the NCAA 
tournament was because we 
lost two non-conference games. 
Going undefeated you cant ask
for more to set up for NCAAs. 
It was real big winning all our 
non-conference games.
In Fridays game, New York 
cashed in on two early corner 
kicks from Matthew Ramirez. 
In the 10th minute, Christopher 
Wolf headed the corner kick into 
the net past Tartan junior goal
keeper Matthew Bazin. Four 
minutes later NYUs Jeritt Thayer 
headed in Ramirezs corner for 
his team-leading 14th goal of the 
season.
Carnegie Mellon fought back 
with a goal in the 75th minute 
off the foot of senior midfielder 
Christopher Watts. Watts re
ceived a pass from Griffin and 
blasted it into the net to cut the 
deficit to just one goal.
Its been our problem this 
year that weve not been able to 
play a complete game, Browne 
said. Its tough getting behind. 
We did a fairly good job coming 
back. Its tough being down two 
goals with UAA competition and 
coming back. We cut it down to 
2-1 and I thought we had good 
play in the second half. We had 
a couple opportunities  we just 
couldnt put them away.
See MENS, page A12
Womens soccer beats 
NYU 5-1 at home
Mingwei Tay/Photo Staff
First-year defender Emily Overstreet (#11) clears the ball away from 
Brandeis midfielder Melissa Gorenkoff (#19) in Sundays 2-1 loss.
Volleyball advances 
season record to 17-14
by Brian Friedrick
Junior Staffwriter
Since winning 13 of 17 
matches against opponents such 
as Case Western Reserve Uni
versity, John Carroll University, 
and Otterbein College, the Tar
tans have participated in four 
days of tournament play as well 
as a match against fellow Penn
sylvania competitor, La Roche 
College. Against highly ranked 
opponents, the Tartans fought 
well but lost.
On Wednesday, Oct. 17, the 
Tartans faced off against La 
Roche, overpowering the Redhawks in three straight games 
(30-17, 30-15, 30-20).
First-year outside hitter 
Caroline Size lead the charge,
compiling 10 kills. Junior mid
dle hitter Chisom Amaechi had 
seven kills, and senior middle 
hitter Abbie Toney had six. Soph
omore setter Samantha Carter 
produced 37 assists throughout 
the match.
The Tartans went on to com
pete at the Juniata tournament 
that following weekend. At the 
tournament, the team struggled 
against nationally ranked oppo
nents, including second-ranked 
Juniata University, seventhranked University of La Verne, 
and llth-ranked Cal State East 
Bay.
On the first day of the tourna
ment, Carnegie Mellon faced off 
against Juniata, and though the 
Tartans put up a fight, they fell
See VOLLEYBALL, page A12
.

(UAA) play. As the team prepares 
to enter the UAA championship 
tournament, The Tartan sat 
with sophomore middle 
hitter Jessica Brackin to hear 
what she had to say about her 
success, the teams success, and
the upcoming 
tournament.
championship
our coach, my year was her first 
recruit class, and it was a team I 
wanted to be a part of.

T: How do you handle aca
demics and athletics?
B: I handle my work so much 
better during the season. I have 
so much to do; staying busy 
keeps me from procrastinating. 
Having so many upperclassmen 
that have taken so many of the
Tartan: When did you start 
playing volleyball and why?
Brackin: I started playing in same classes is also such a big
help. Its like having a team of 
tutors.
seventh grade, just as something 
to do. I had always played soft
ball, but then in middle school 
we started to have a volleyball 
team, and I started playing and 
didnt know anything about it, 
but then ended .up switching 
sports.
T: Was volleyball a part of your 
decision to come to Carnegie 
Mellon?
B: It was actually a huge part 
of my decision. I really wanted 
to play volleyball in college, 
and I also wanted to make sure 
I went to a good school, and 
Carnegie Mellon was just per
fect for that. I also really loved
A
T: Do you have any pre-game 
rituals or superstitions?
B: I actually have a couple. We 
have a special team pre-game 
cheer, but its secret so I cant 
actually say much else about it, 
and then I paint my nails before 
every game. I had just gotten 
this really crazy ridiculously 
bright nail polish one day, and 
did my nails, and everyone no
ticed so I always do it now.
T: Do you have a favorite 
place to play?
B: I love getting to play in New
il ijgii 11111 l M MpMMR do ' Mtill
York. Its a really fun trip, and 
we always get good competition 
when were there. But I think 
playing at home is probably my 
favorite; its really nice to play at 
home and have all the fans come 
out and watch us play.
' ' ' i * ^ V' '' S V
T: Do you have a most memo
rable match?
B: The game we played this 
year against Washington (Mo.) 
University was amazing. We 
played ther^ in New York, and 
we ended up losing, but we took 
them to a fifth game and it was 
really close, and it was such a 
fun match.
T: Do you have any personal 
goals for the rest of the season?
B: I actually dont, we really 
play as a team. To maybe end 
the season hitting .300.
T: What kind of goals does the 
team have for the season?
B: We really want to see how 
far we can getin the UAA tourna
ment. We normally finish fourth 
and we think this team can do so 
much better than that.
uieim oiiu^/ruuiu oidii
Sophomore midfielder Jonathan Simon (#15) takes on NYUs defense.
by Doug Fricker
Senior Sports Staff
The mens soccer team won, 
lost, and tied last week in three 
home games. The Tartans 
wrapped up their undefeated 
non-conference schedule by de
feating Point Park University 4-0 
Monday. Then they fell 2-1 in 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) action Friday to New York
University. The Tartans played 
their final regular season home 
game yesterday and battled to a 
scoreless draw with UAA oppo
nent Brandeis University.
Against Point Park, Carnegie - 
Mellon (9-4-2 overall, 0-4-2 
in the UAA) got in the scoring 
column early thanks to a goal 
by first-year midfielder Adam 
Bogus in the fourth minute of 
the game. Junior forward Dan 
Brackley crossed the ball into the
by Jesse Kummer
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
soccer team hosted two Univer
sity Athletic Association (UAA) 
opponents last week. The Tar
tans defeated the New York 
University Violets 5-1 Friday, 
but couldnt overcome two late 
scores by Brandeis University 
Sunday, and fell to the Judges
2-1. The Tartans now stand at
3-2-1 in UAA play.
First-year forward Valerie
Corvino started off the scoring 
Friday in the 22nd minute of 
play. Corvino beat the Violets 
goalkeeper on a breakaway and 
was able to knock the ball in for 
her fifth goal on the year.
New York struck back and 
evened the score at 1-1 when 
sophomore defender Sarah 
Lensing scored from the top of 
the box off a pass from first-year 
midfielder Katie Gaston.
From this point on the Tartan 
seniors took control. Forward 
Kasey Stever chalked up her 
seventh and eighth goals of the 
season in the span of 10 minutes. 
Stevers seventh goal came off 
a pass from Eleonore Valencia 
from 15 yards out at the right 
post.
Just nine minutes into the sec
ond half Stever struck again, this 
time with fellow senior Amanda 
Rose netting the assist.
Carnegie Mellon remained 
on the offensive as Rose would 
score just five minutes later on 
a free kick from nearly midfield. 
Midfielder Jessica Howard was 
the last of the three seniors to 
score when she put away her first 
goal of the season on a rebound 
off the goalkeeper into an empty 
net. First-year Adrienne Pajer as
sisted in the play.
We played tight defense all 
night, head coach Sue Willard
See WOMENS, page A13

---------------------------------------------------

^STRKRFT performs 
11 Halloween
The Darjeeling 
Limited: Rebound 
Express
by Alex EwingVolume 102, Issue 09by Matt Siffertby Marium Chandna

---------------------------------------------------

...this week only
4Shakespeare
Reviews of Will Ss Complete Works and The 
Comedy of Errors.
MSTRKRFT
Prepare yourself for a costume-filled concert 
featuring remix artists Jesse Keeler and Al-P.
6
7
Kite Runner
Khaled Hosseinis novel is just as moving and 
successful as a film.
Darjeeling
Wes Andersons latest film picks up where The 
Royal Tenenbaums left off.
1 0 Library Floors
r-iW
Find out where to go in Hunt when you want to 
study, eat, or just hang out.
8
...feature
Halloween
Read up on some of the spookiest places on 
campus. Also: Movies and recipes.
...regulars
Advice
Find out how to upgrade your cooking skills and 
decide whether or not to mix love and leases.
5 Paperhouse
A look at song transitions, those oft-ignored 
seconds between tracks.
7 Dollar Movie
Michael Moore -reveals a startling truth: U.S. 
health care sucks. Also: Transformers.
j 0 Did You Know?
Students hold a BYOB rally over rising costs in 
tuition... in 1982.
PUBLISHER Andrew Peters EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Shawn Wertz MANAGING EDITOR Liz Schwartz PILLBOX EDITOR Sarah Mogin GOMICS EDITOR Gene Kim 
ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Matt Siffert PHOTO EDITOR J.W, Ramp ACTING ART EDITOR Lizzee Solomon COPY MANAGER Matt Campbell 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Rachael Clemmons CONTRIBUTING EDITOR Robert Kaminski CONTRIBUTING EDITOR Greg Hanneman COVER Zhiquan Yeo
The Tartan . Box 1017 . Carnegie Mellon University . Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 . www.thetartan.org .  2007 The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

Homecoming profiles
Remember bobby socks?
Over the years, Carnegie Mellon students' preferences 
for music and movies have evolved, but some things 
have never changed  bagpipes and Buggy, to name a 
few. Below are some quick facts about three alumni who 
visited campus last weekend for Homecoming.
Jane Grim Duffy  Architecture, 1947 
Favorite music: Concerts by the Dorsey brothers and 
Glenn Miller, where "everyone danced."
Popular sports: Archery, badminton.
Popular clothes: Penny loafers, bobby socks, blue jeans 
(rolled up), fathers shirts.
Life after graduation: Married a fellow archie and had 
six children, all of whom were interested in architecture. 
Favorite Carnegie Mellon memory: Using her uncles 
set of drawing tools from when he was a student at 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Thom Stulginsky  H&SS, 1973 
Favorite band: Santana.
Favorite movie: Easy Rider.
Favorite thing to do on weekends: War protests. 
Best Carnegie Mellon memory: Late-night 
conversations with friends in Doherty Apartments.
Laura Zapanta  Chemistry, 1989 
Favorite band: Billy Joel.
Favorite movie: Ferris Bueller's Day Off (shown - 
during Orientation), or whatever the dollar movie was 
(then screened in Doherty 2210).
Favorite thing to do on weekends: Playing in 
Kiltie Band at football games in the fall, driving a 
buggy in the spring.
Best Carnegie Mellon memory: Hanging out in 
the APhiO office with friends.
Elizabeth Cutrone | Staffwriter 
Cynthia Peng | Staffwriter
School of Music performs Nine
Broadway adaptation of Fellinis 8 1/2 comes to Carnegie Mellon
Nine, the latest musical produced by Carnegie Mellons 
School of Music, is an entirely different animal from the 
surreal Italian film that inspired it, Federico Fellini's, 8 1/2. 
Along with the extra one-half, playwright Arthur Kopit 
gave Nine a more literal backbone, stripping out most 
of the surrealism 'of 8 1/2, while adding musical comedy 
and tweaking the plot and characters. The result is not 
quite as great a musical as 8 1/2 is a film, but it is a solid, 
interesting play with a colorful cast of characters and a bit 
more philosophy than the average Broadway show. The 
School of Music carried off the production impeccably, 
with strong acting and singing performances from 
everyone, gorgeous costumes, and an appropriately stark, 
minimal set.
Like 8 1/2, Nine follows a film director who has lost all 
inspiration. Guido Contini (played by junior BHA student 
Nathaniel Krause) has promised his producer a movie 
musical, and he's supposed to start shooting at the end 
of the week, but he hasnt even started writing the script. 
His married life isnt going well either; Guidos wife Luisa 
(senior music major Bevin Hill) is rapidly losing patience 
with his unfaithfulness and unresponsiveness, and Guido 
cant seem to escape his two past mistresses, Carla 
(senior music major Caitlyn Glennon) and Claudia (senior 
music major Abigail Paschke). In a last-ditch attempt 
to save his marriage and hide from his producer Liliane 
La Fleur (senior music major Chrystal Williams)  and 
maybe even come up with an idea for his new film  
Guido escapes to a spa in Venice, only to find that all of 
his problems have followed. *
8 1/2 was named for the number of films Fellini had 
completed at the time (the half film was a short), but Nine 
was named for the idea that the plays protagonist has 
not matured emotionally since he was 9 years old. In fact, 
the scenes in Nine where Guido relives his past with his
9-year-old self were the strongest of the play  child actor 
Danny Lawrence, who played the younger Guido, was 
darling, and senior music major Michelle Dillon, playing
Everything you need to know
About cohabitation and cooking
Hello Myrtle, Dear Myrtle,
Guido's childhood friend, charmed the audience with 
her instructional song about love, Ti Voglio Bene" (Be 
Italian"). Kopit would have done well to further explore 
Guidos past and his arrested emotional development.
The first act of Nine delves a bit too far into self-indulgent 
musical comedy, with unnecessary songs like The 
Germans at the Spa" and Folies Bergere" (which refers 
to a music hall in Paris) that seem to exist only for laughs. 
The play redeems itself in the second act, however, taking 
on a darker tone as Guidos life spirals out of control.
Throughout, Krause delivered an excellent performance 
as the hapless Guido, and Hill was even more spectacular 
as his long-suffering wife. Glennon was hilarious (and hot) 
in the lewd A Call from the Vatican, and Paschke was 
coolly beautiful as Guido's other mistress, Claudia.
Even more beautiful than the actresses wre the 
costumes  designer Elizabeth Floress creations would 
have been at home on a runway in Milan, let alone a 
Broadway stage. The outfit of Guidos producer's goon, 
Lina Darling (junior music major Gabriela Gamache) in 
particular looked like it came straight from a runway. 
Furthermore, the choice to make all the costumes black 
and white contributed to the shows surreal mood (a mood 
the plot didn't quite sustain), and made another homage 
to' 8 1/2, which was filmed in black and white in the color 
film era.
Overall, the School of Music delivered a fabulous 
production of a flawed yet engaging play. If you missed 
it, you're in luck  Squirrel Hill native Rob Marshall (who 
directed Chicago and Memoirs of a Geisha) is planning 
a film version of Nine, starring Javier Bardem, Catherine 
Zeta-Jones, and Penlope Cruz, to be released sometime 
next year.
Selena Beckman-Harned I Staffwriter
Help! Im so sick of oncampus food that I have to 
cancel my meal plan before 
going completely mad. 
Trouble is, I cant afford to 
eat out all the time, and my 
culinary skills only extend 
as far as mixing water and 
noodles, and sometimes 
I even mess that up. Any 
tips?
Im Not a Cook!
Hi INC,
Well, this isnt Ask Rachael 
Ray," but ill do my best. There 
are plnty of easy meals you 
can make that require minimal 
knowledge of cooking. Go to 
Goodwill or Target and buy 
yourself a saucepan, a small 
skillet, a big wooden spoon, and 
a spatula. Then, pick up a copy 
of Joy of Cooking or (gasp) call 
Mom for a few simple recipes. 
Scrambled eggs and bacon, 
grilled cheese, pita pizzas, and 
spaghetti are all good places to 
start. If you can master sauting 
(frying quickly in oil) vegetables, 
a few cut-up carrots, zucchini, 
onions, mushrooms, and your 
favorite meat or vegetable can 
quickly become a plethora of 
different meals. Break some 
eggs on top, and youve got 
an omelet (or if you really want 
to impress your friends, call it 
a frittata). Dump some pasta in 
the skillet and you have pasta 
primavera. Put it on some rice 
and you have an Asian entre. 
See? Youll be making souffls 
in no time.
Myrtle
I want to move in with my 
boyfriend next semester 
when my lease runs out, but 
some of my friends dont 
think its a good idea. What 
do you think?
Housemate Or Not?
Hey there HON,
t
Were lucky that we can 
even consider the option 
of cohabitation  a couple 
generations ago, it would 
have been unheard of. Still, 
just because coed housing is 
mostly accepted nowadays, it 
doesnt mean cohabitation is 
necessarily a good idea. Living 
with someone you love can be 
fabulous, but make sure youre 
doing it for the right reasons. 
Moving in with somebody to 
save money, to piss off your 
parents, to test him or her for 
marriage, while separately 
all important considerations, 
are not good reasons. And 
remember, its difficult enough 
to break up with someone, but 
its even worse when you have 
to pack up boxes and break 
leases on top of the heartache. 
But, hey, love is all about risks, 
right? Just make sure youve 
thought about all the pros and 
cons before signing that lease.
Myrtle
Need advice? Send queries to 
advice@thetartan.org.
Related Content
For a review of Scotch n Sodas latest, see 
page 4.
campus Q
pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

Shakespeare: Completely worked over
Scotch n Soda performs the famous playwrights Complete Works
A play called The Complete Works of William Shakespeare 
(Abridged) might sound like an onstage reading of an English 
student's CliffsNotes, but the performance is much more 
satisfying. Scotch 'n' Soda put on the show over the weekend, 
in a performance featuring senior English major Julia Brown, 
first-year business major Stephen Chan, and first-year science 
and humanities scholar Joshua Patent.
Instead of trying to discuss every single plot point of every 
single Shakespearean play, The Complete Works touched only 
the interesting ones  which, admittedly, is a lot less than 
you'd think. More importantly, the show dealt with the aspects 
of Shakespearean plays that everyone always complains about: 
the extreme similarities of the comedies, Ophelias startling 
insanity in Hamlet, and the entire plot of Romeo and Juliet.
In Complete Works, the actors began by announcing the goal 
of the play: [To] see a future where this book [The Complete 
Works of William Shakespeare] will be found in every hotel 
room in the world." This was spoken in a Southern reverends 
accent, making the statement truly memorable. Next up was 
a cooking show parodying Titus Andronicus followed by an 
Othei/o-inspired rap. After that, the actors went on to perform
one of Shakespeare's most famous plays: Romeo and Juliet. 
Romeo and Juliet has long frustrated high school students 
and all those opposed to the overly romantic tragedy. But the 
show's portrayal of the play pokes fun at its melodramatic 
nature  enough to please even the least inclined audience.
The play then moved on to the best part: the discussion 
of the comedies. On stage, the actors decided that all of 
Shakespeares comedies are essentially the same and resolved 
to put all 16 plays into one. This super-play covers all 
the bases of a typical Shakespearean comedy  mistaken 
identity, girls dressed as boys, cranky parents, rags to riches, 
etc. Instead of tackling each of Shakespeares histories on an 
individual basis, the play compared the histories to a football 
game, with the English crown as the ball. Here, the actors gave 
a impressive performance, seamlessly narrating each of the 
plays while upholding the extended analogy of football.
The second act of the play dealt with Shakespeare's tragedy 
Hamlet, though the synopsis was anything but typical. The 
actors focused on perhaps the most irksome aspect of the play: 
how Ophelia, Hamlets lover, goes crazy once Hamlet loses 
interest. They analyzed Ophelias reaction to Hamlets famous
line: Get thee to a nunnery!" The actors shared their own 
ideas about Ophelia's id, ego, and superego with members of 
the audience, who were encouraged to participate.
Thus, audience interaction was what made the play such 
a pleasure to watch. It was interesting how even for little 
questions, the actors looked to the audience for answers and 
enthusiasm. One the whole, The Complete Works of William 
Shakespeare (Abridged) was done in a way that made all of 
the plays, and playwright himself, much more interesting and 
accessible.
Pratima Neti | Staffwriter
Far left and center: From left-to-right, Julia Brown, Stephen 
Chan, and Joshua Patent act out scenes from Hamlet. 
Right: Chan threatens sophomore music major Scott 
Wasserman, the assistant director for the show.
Hannah Rosen | Photo Staff
Comedy of Errors  more errors than comedy
Pittsburgh Public Theater adds political incorrectness to Shakespeares comedy
Casual William Shakespeare readers (and even some more 
hardcore ones), dont pay as much attention to his comedies. 
Like the tragedies, these are equally compassionate and 
energetic, but with a different focus: farcical hilarity and 
whirlwind of confusion. Such is the blueprint for an early 
comedy of his, The Comedy ofEnois, now running at the 
OReilly Theater downtown as part of the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater series.
Try this plot on for size: A father, Egeon, has two sets of twin 
sons. Each set has the same name (Alphonsus of Syracuse 
and Alphonsus of Ephesus, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio 
of Ephesus), adding to the confusion. Then, through a set of 
fantastical events, the two pairs get separated at birth. But 
its no ordinary separation: Dromio of Syracuse becomes the 
servant for Alphonsus of Syracuse, and Dromio of Ephesus 
ends up being the servant for Alphonsus of Ephesus.
Things get interesting when the Syracusians find themselves
in Ephesus, fully intertwined with the lives of their twin 
counterparts that live there. As the audience, we know who is 
who, but the characters on stage dont. The situation quickly 
becomes uncomfortable for the audience, especially when 
the misunderstandings end up causing marital troubles, 
jewelry theft, and beatings. Sure, Shakespeare moved us with 
star-crossed lovers and being/not being, but in The Comedy 
of Errors he showcases both-the hilarity and discomfort of 
mix-ups.
This particular production, however, was quirky. Director Ted 
Pappas reworked the performance to fit a modern-day urban 
setting, intending to add to the madness of the scenario. But 
Pappas world was tough to get into: He tried bringing in 
characters of all races to introduce the big-cities-are-diverse 
theme, but wound up introducing cookie-cutter stereotypes of 
each background. One of the Dromios was so exaggeratedly 
gay that it was bordering on offensive. Equally off was 
the only black member of the cast, who, for some reason,
was supposed to resemble A1 Sharpton in appearance and 
disposition. And then theres the Jewish guy who played a 
jewelry dealer. And the Chinese guy who had curly mustache 
and bowed when he talked.
It seems unbelievable Pappas expected so little of his 
audience. Perhaps the majority of the crowd  people either 
over 50 or under 10  found such stereotypes amusing, but 
for those of us stuck in the middle, the performance felt both 
awkward and wrong.
Matt Siffert | Assistant Pillbox Editor
The Comedy of Errors.runs through Nov. 4 at Pittsburgh Public 
Theater, 621 Penn Ave. Call 412.316.1600 or visit 
www.ppt.org.
4 t h eate r
pillbox 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

MSTRKRFT performs on Halloween
Rangos Ballroom becomes Rangos Club
Don't expect Toronto DJ-duo MSTRKRFT to pull any 
unexpected punches. In the past year, the group
 consisting of musicians Jesse Keeler and Al-P
 has toured clubs all over the world, getting nods 
for its dancer-friendly style. MSTRKRFTs sound is 
unabashedly simple: A throbbing, up-tempo drumbeat 
is omnipresent. There's a fat bass drum that could 
barely make it through your doorway, combined with 
that percussive-yet-distorted synthesizer line youve 
heard on every CD put out in the past year (see TV On 
The Radio, Kanye West, etc.).
remix in the style of the original and not making 
any creative musical changes, what exactly are you 
trying to accomplish? If your answer is getting 
people on the dance floor, well, Justices original 
version of "D.A.N.C.E. has been banging in the 
clubs (and college house parties) for months now.
But hey, theres nothing wrong with dancing  or 
a thumping drumbeat (albeit uncreative). What 
matters to MSTRKRFT  and its fans  is that 
when Jesse Keeler and Al-P hit the play button, your 
ass is shaking and youre having a good time. Sure,
What matters to MSTRKRFT  and its fans  is that 
when Jesse Keeler and Al-P hit the play button, your 
ass is shaking and youre having a good time.
This funky simplicity is MSTRKRFTs one 
commandment. It's clear that Keeler and Al-P form 
a functional band, tapping into the basic cultural 
phenomenon that young people today want to dance 
to club music with a sprinkle of indie clout (melody not 
required). MSTRKRFT understands that and stays far 
away from corny breakdowns and hazy piano lines that 
defined quintessential '90s techno music. Instead, the 
duo turns their musical vocabulary outward, focusing 
on remixing adequately interesting, hipster-approved 
indie-pop peers like Bloc Party along with house groups 
like Justice.
Remixing alone isnt a sin, but MSTRKRFT is 
lethargically uncreative in its deliveries. The bands 
remix of Justices D.A.N.C.E." is painfully boring, 
the main changes being the addition of a cowbell 
and a: predictable key change halfway into the song. 
And even though Justice doesnt specialize in catchy 
numbers, they are masters of rhythmic interplay 
between beats and samples; with MSTRKRFT, the 
music just feels like a synthesizer slapped on top of 
a drumbeat. It begs the question: If youre doing a
it's nothing to write home about, but most of the 
crowd MSTRKRFT is playing to probably wouldn't be 
writing home anyway.
MSTRKRFT plays Rangos Wednesday night and, as 
long as you dont listen too carefully, you will have a 
good time. Also, wear a costume  the concerts on 
Halloween.
Matt Siffert I Assistant Pillbox Editor
Performing Wednesday, MSTRKRFT 
will turn the UC's Rangos Ballroom 
into a Halloween dance party.
On song transitions
Sometimes, when bands make their albums, they get the idea to make 
one song transition directly into another, proving that the album format 
isnt quite dead yet. The popular concept of shuffling kind of screws this 
up. I like listening to albums all the way through, probably largely due to the 
fear that maybe ill miss one of these sweet transitions: Shuffling through 
my playlist, one song just cuts off mysteriously! Terrified, I'll hurriedly try 
to figure out what I just missed out on, only to learn that Im already on 
to some other random track. I appreciate spontaneity, but this is just 
annoying. Below are some times when you should flip off your shuffling 
and slip into loop to fully appreciate these excellent transitions:
Radiohead, Kid A, between Idioteque and Morning Bell
The players in Radiohead take their song transitions very seriously. On Kid 
A, not only do you get that noodly ending on Optimistic, but also a neat 
little fade-out at the end of Idioteque. Does the song end there? Yes and 
no  the music smoothly transitions from a fuzzy guitar wash to insistent 
drumming and more of Thom Yorkes crooning. It goes from electronic to 
spastic. Despite the smooth transition, Idioteque and Morning Bell are 
two distinctly different songs.
Wolf Parade, Apologies to the Queen Mary, between Dear Sows 
and Daughters of Hungry Ghosts and Ill Believe in Anything
In this transition, the pseudo-ending of Dear Sons is reminiscent of its 
intro, until the drums kick in  kind of like Radioheads transition into 
Morning Bell. Perhaps intense drumming is a tenet of the song transition: 
Here, the band uses them to emphasize the songs' different rhythms.
Justice, Cross, between Genesis and Let There Be Light
Though the two songs have the same sort of feeling at the transition 
point, overall each has a completely different mood: Genesis" is loud and 
overbearing, whereas Let There be Light is a much more wobbly number, 
leading into Justices bouncy and poppy hit single, D.A.N.C.E.
The Microphones, The Glow Pt. II, between I Want Wind to Blow 
and The Glow, Pt. 2
This transition is great because its unpredictable; it moves from a repetitive 
drum rhythm and chord progression to crashing drums and cymbals and a 
wailing electric guitar. After getting your attention, the band switches back 
to acoustic guitar strumming while vocalist Phil Elverum sing-taiks about 
taking his shirt off and other things.
Hyun-Soo Lee | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
1 Biosphere  Cirque
2 Radiohead  In Rainbows
3 Steve Goldberg  Steve Goldberg and the Arch Enemies
4 Various Artists  Soul Gospel
5 Charles Mingus  Tijuana Moods
6 Various Artists  The Bombay Connection
7 Low  Drums and Guns
8 Excepter  Throne
9 Enon  Grass Geysers... Carbon Clouds
10 Electric Six  I Shall Exterminate Everything Around Me That Restricts Me 
From Being the Master
Courtesy of Geoff McLean
music R
pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

Aftertaste Flying high
Big Mamas House of Soul Marc Forster adapts The Kite Runner for the screen
Few of us have a firm understanding of Southern cuisine
 seriously, what the hell is a chitterling? And even fewer 
of us have Southern grandmothers who cook it. For the 
bulk of us who are not so fortunate, we are lucky to .have 
Brenda Franklin, who opened Big Mamas House of Soul 
last spring.
Franklins restaurant is scantly decorated. The walls are 
lined with pictures of Pittsburgh notables, Including former 
Steelers Head Coach Bill Cowher  Big Mamas catered 
his retirement party. Like the decor, the seating is sparse. 
Besides three picnic tables off to the side of the building, the 
restaurant has no seats and is takeout only. But going to Big 
Mamas House of Soul for the ambiance would be like going 
to the O for a salad  you dont go for the atmosphere, 
you go for the ribs.
The ribs alone could keep the restaurant in business. They 
are simply delicious  lightly charred on the outside with 
an inside that's nearly perfect. The meat is succulent and 
falls effortlessly from the bone, and the ribs come dressed 
with a liberal amount of dark barbecue sauce, its sweetness 
balanced by vinegar and spices.
Big Mamas dinners range from staples such as fried chicken, 
fish, and meatloaf to more obscure dishes like barbecued 
pigs feet. One highlight is the pulled pork sandwich, a 
generous portion of smoky pork doused in a sweet barbecue 
sauce. Less impressive was the fried chicken, a serving of 
bony wings which would have benefited from some breast 
or thigh meat.
While most of her dishes are traditional, Franklins sides 
are a bit more experimental. One example is the seafood 
cornbread stuffing, which blends the saltiness of crabmeat, 
the spice of Old Bay seasoning, and the subtle sweetness 
of cornbread. Another departure is her potato salad, which 
combines golden, red, and sweet potatoes. The sweet 
potatoes add both color and texture as well as a faint 
sweetness that helps to neutralize the sharp taste of the 
mustard. The candied yams, though surprising, were also 
satisfying: Franklin serves the dish brown instead of the 
usual orange. Here, Franklin uses spices to accentuate the 
natural sweetness of the yams, avoiding a dish either too 
sweet or too syrupy.
Some of the other side dishes were not so successful. The 
greens were as they should be  salty, slightly smoky, and 
cooked tender without being soggy  but something was 
lacking. Another side, the macaroni and cheese, managed 
both to please and disappoint  one forkful would be 
creamy and flavorful, the next dry and bland.
Ultimately, Big Mamas provides some solid cooking at 
reasonable prices. As a general rule, if the dish includes 
pork or potatoes, its probably worth ordering. Whether or 
not you're lucky enough to have a Southern grandmother 
to cook for you, Franklins home-style cooking is an easy 
alternative.
Kevin LaBuz | Staffwriter
Big Manna's House of Soul (412.471.2910) is located at 
1603 Penn Ave. in the Strip District.
Despite much speculation about its release date, The Kite 
Runner (2007) managed to reach the screens of several 
universities, including New York University, San Jos State 
University, and Carnegie Mellon. The movie was shown last 
week in McConomy Auditorium at a screening provided by 
Allied Advertising to the Student Activities Board.
Directed by Golden Globe-nominee Marc Forster (Finding 
Neverland), the film is an adaptation of Afghan-American 
author Khaled Hosseinis first novel, The Kite Runner, 
published in 2003. The story originates in the Wazir Akbar 
Khan district of Kabul, Afghanistan, prior to the Soviet Union's 
invasion of the country in 1979. Throughout the plot, The 
Kite Runner encapsulates the past 30 years of sociopolitical 
turmoil through the eyes of two childhood friends: wealthy 
Pashtun Amir (Zekeria Ebrahimi) and Hassan (Ahmad Khan 
Mahmidzada), his Hazara servants son.
In a time of unease between Afghanistan's ethnic tribes, 
the dominant Pashtuns and the historically discriminated 
against Hazaras, Amir and Hassan's friendship transcends all 
boundaries of ethnicity. While Amir enjoys every luxury his 
father, Baba (Homayon Ershadi), can provide  an English 
education and expensive gifts and parties  Hassan finds 
happiness in hearing the stories Amir writes. The two escape
The title of the novel and film holds great significance in terms 
of the kiteflying culture, which was banned under the Taliban 
regime. The film highlights the Afghan passion for kiteflying 
through the character Baba, who tells stories of slashing 
down flying kites as a child to Amir, Hassan, and eventually to 
Sohrab.
In addition to the poignant tale of Amir and Hassan, entwined 
with Afghanistans sociopolitical chaos following the Soviet 
invasion, The Kite Runner portrays Afghan heritage and 
culture in a way unlike most modern media. As Afghanistan 
has become notorious for the extremist activities of the 
Taliban and the irrationality of religious pedagogues, these 
characteristics have become symbolic of the nation, masking 
anything beyond them.
In his novel, Hosseini helps to dispel this illusion by portraying 
the freedom and richness of culture that the country once 
possessed, and the movie does the same. For example, the 
scene with Amir's birthday party shows a-gathering of men 
and women dressed in Western clothing, drinking alcohol, 
and listening to music  all of which became punishable 
acts when the Taliban took over. Forster shows this later in 
the scene where a fully cloaked woman is stoned to death by 
Taliban officials for an alleged affair.
The Kite Runner portrays Afghan heritage and culture in 
a way unlike most modern media.
into the mythical world of their favorite book, Shahnamah, 
but the fantasy comes to an abrupt end during a kite-flying 
competition, when Hassan is gang raped by a group of bullies 
led by Assef (Elham Ehsas), whom he had threatened with his 
slingshot in an attempt to protect Amir. As a silent witness 
to Hassans trauma, Amir bears the guilt of his cowardice 
until the day he sees in Sohrab (Ali Dinesh), Hassan's son, a 
possibility of redemption.
Though audiences are sometimes disappointed by film 
adaptations, The Kite Runner succeeds in recreating the 
novel. But while the film relates closely to the text, it also 
enables viewers who have not read the novel to comprehend 
and appreciate the story.
The winning aspect of the film is its closeness to reality.
The historical conflict between the Pashtuns and Hazaras 
is portrayed with accuracy, including physical attributes, 
dialects spoken, and the social stratum projected. In 
Afghanistan, the Hazaras are often considered to be racially 
inferior to the Pashtuns; Hazaras strictly belong to the 
Shiite sect of Islam and are believed to be the descendents 
of the armies of Mongolian Emperor Genghis Khan. While 
portraying the character Hassan, Mahmidzada's Mongolian 
features helped him nail the role of the Hazara boy perfectly. 
Additionally, the film succeeds in depicting the exodus of 
Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States during the 
Soviet war. In the story, Amir and Baba settle for a modest flat, 
and Baba works at a petrol station.
The Kite Runner features some remarkable performances, 
even from actors playing relatively minor parts, such as the 
characters of the bus driver and Ali, Hassans father. Also 
outstanding are Ebrahimi and Mahmidzada, debuting as 
child artists: Ebrahimi skillfully balances Amir's jealousy and 
love for Hassan, while Mahmidzada fervently conveys the 
latters unconditional love. Playing the adult Amir, Khalid 
Abdalla (United 93) combines boyish charm with a manly 
disposition to portray his character in a well-rounded manner. 
Additionally, Ershadi depicts Babas grandeur and strength, 
especially when he risks his life to protect the honor of a 
fellow Afghan man and saves his wife from being assaulted by 
a Soviet soldier.
Overall, the The Kite Runner is a must-see for those who 
enjoyed the book, and for those who have not read it. The 
film succeeds in capturing the novels moving content, 
and Forster's skilled directing and his casts immaculate 
performances bring the novel to life.
Marium Chandna | Asst. SciTech Editor
6 leisure
pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

The Darjeeling Limited: Rebound express
Wes Anderson recovers from The Life Aquatic
After The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou, there seemed 
to be nowhere left for director Wes Anderson to go. The 
Life Aquatic, his fourth feature film, which opened in 2004, 
explored the same themes as his previous popular films 
(particularly The Royal Tenenbaums), which focus on family 
dynamics and relationships; Anderson also kept many of 
his actors, recycling Tenenbaums stars Bill Murray, Anjelica 
Huston, and Owen Wilson. The Life Aquatic was both a 
critical and commercial dud, opening with lackluster reviews 
and grossing only $34 million worldwide, less than the cost of 
production, according to www.hoxofficemojo.com.
It would seem then that his fifth feature, The Darjeeling 
Limited, is no great departure, sharing these actors and 
themes along with classic Anderson images like constant 
smoking and slow-motion walking. But despite these 
similarities, Andersons latest effort shows him regaining 
some momentum. After three years of producing nothing 
but a gently self-mocking American Express commercial, 
Anderson is getting back on track with The Darjeeling 
Limited. The film opens with its three main characters, 
the Whitman brothers, meeting for the first time in a year 
to undergo a spiritual journey in India. Their journey, as
explained by eldest brother Francis (Owen Wilson), will bring 
them to some sort of spiritual peace and help them fix their 
lives. And the brothers lives could use some fixing: Francis 
has been in a debilitating motorcycle accident thats left him 
in bandages, making Wilson's real-life suicide attempt come 
to mind; Peter, played by Adrien Brody, is having trouble 
coping with his father's death and wifes pregnancy; and Jack 
(Jason Schwartzman) is clinging to an ex-girlfriend.
The brothers travel across India on the titular train, the 
Darjeeling Limited, to stop at holy sites and.temples, hoping 
to achieve some sort of spiritual self-awareness. Throughout 
the trip, the Whitmans argue and keep secrets from each 
other, unable to come forward with their problems. As they 
continue to live in the confined quarters of the train, the 
tension builds and the brothers go on bickering.
Wilson gives one of his best performances as Francis, the 
obnoxious and controlling oldest brother. Too often, Wilson 
comes across as himself and not the character  but in 
The Darjeeling Limited, Francis is real. The brothers are a 
return to Andersons Tenenbaums, a family resembling J.D. 
Salingers Glass siblings, leaving behind the underdeveloped
relationships in The Life Aquatic. In the film, the chemistry of 
the three leads helps to portray a family overcoming a fathers 
death and mothers abandonment.
Still, Andersons film is no masterpiece: Its sections are 
fragmented, while its quirks are too typical to be shocking 
or meaningful. 'But The Darjeeling Limited is a rebound 
after Andersons previous mess  a good sign for his future 
productions.
Opening before the feature film is Andersons short Hotel 
Chevalier, which follows Schwartzman's Jack and an 
unnamed female friend, played by Natalie Portman. More 
successful than the feature, Chevalier should bring hope to 
any wronged Anderson fan; the short opens with Jack in a 
hotel room in Paris watching World War II film Stalag 17 and 
continues gracefully for 13 perfect minutes. Its worth the 
price of a ticket just to watch the two characters interact, 
looking out on Jack's symbolic view of the City of Lights.
Alex Ewing | Staffwriter
NO MOVIE
Wednesday, October 31
Happy Halloween! Get in 
costume, go out to a party, 
steal a little kids candy  
okay, maybe not. If youre 
disappointed by the lack of 
horror movies on the scariest 
night of the year, just walk down 
Craig Street for your fill of shady 
characters. And remember, 
Family Weekend is almost here
 if thats not frightening, I dont 
know what is.
For another fun thing to do, 
check out tonights MSTRKRFT 
concert in Rangos Ballroom.
See page 5 for a preview of the 
show.
Sicko
Thursday, November 1
8 10 12
Yet another eye-opening 
Michael Moore documentary, 
criticizing our nations health 
care system to communicate 
the ever-familiar message: 
George W. Bush sucks. Oops, 
did I say that? Sicko is brutal in 
its attempt to reveal the truth 
about our countrys health care, 
comparing the U.S. to other 
countries and revealing heart-. 
wrenching HMO horror stories. 
Sicko gives you the same feeling 
as watching Datelines To Catch 
a Predator series  its just 
better, longer, and about health 
care instead of pedophiles on 
MySpace.
Diana Wong | Junior Staffwriter
Transformers
Friday, November 2
10 1
Flash back to your childhood 
with one of last summers 
blockbuster movies, Tranformers. 
The creators may not play the 
theme song like you wanted, 
but there are still Optimus Prime 
and the Autobots, which should 
be enough to satisfy your inner 
8-year-old. Transformers also 
has some amazing graphics, and 
the big bangs and fights do well 
to entertain the easily amused. 
Still, the movie was meant to be 
a summer blockbuster; it might 
look pretty, but the story line 
and acting leave something to 
be desired. Dont go expecting 
to see an Oscar contender, go 
to see the Transformers blow 
stuff up. After all, this is Carnegie 
Mellon, and these are robots.
Blood Diamond
Saturday, November 3 
7:30 10 12:30
Leonardo DiCaprio is one of 
those rare actors who looks 
fantastic and delivers an amazing 
acting performance every time 
he jumps in front of the screen. 
Here, he helps tell the story of the 
Sierra Leone Civil War of 1999, 
most of which was funded by 
diamonds mined there. The story 
centers around the possession of 
one such blood diamond, though 
the movie also depicts the harsh 
war environment. Good plot? 
Check. Good acting? Check. 
Good cinematography? Check. 
The only problem? Its really long.
They Live
Sunday, November 4
8 10 12
They Live is a sci-fi/action flick 
about a guy named Nada who 
finds sunglasses that show him a 
subconscious world that no else 
can see. From this, Wada learns 
that aliens are controlling peoples 
minds with subliminal messages, 
and its up to him to stop it. Okay, 
so maybe that plot doesnt sound 
too amazing, but there are some 
witty moments that make it mildly 
amusing. Overall, They Live is a 
good movie, as long as you can 
get past the wacky plotline, 80s 
cheesiness, and creepy acting by 
Meg Foster.
..film 7
pillbox 10.29.07 #

---------------------------------------------------

NO TRICKS, JUST TRI
campus haunts
With dark corners, weird legends, and even 
weirder locations, Carnegie Mellon's scariest 
spots are ideal for Halloween trickery. If youre 
going to visit these, bring a friend  and 
some mace.
WQED cut-through
Considering the number of incidents in the 
past few years, the WQED cut-through is 
definitely someplace to steer clear of after 
dark. The bright lights may seem safe, but the 
nearby hill is dark enough to hide any number 
of creepy persons.
Steam tunnels
Legend has it that steam tunnels connect 
all the buildings on campus. Many students 
claim to have traveled through the tunnels, in 
particular the ones that connect Maggie Mo 
to the UC. Supposedly, the steam tunnels pass 
right by the UC swimming pool, and those 
inside can see the swimmers under water. But 
even if these tunnels do exist, few people have 
access to them.
CFA side rooms
There are several scattered doorways next to 
the CFA stairs, many of which arent even on 
landings. As for whats inside, its always a 
mystery: more studios, art galleries, or maybe 
death and torture chambers.
Doherty side stairs
Doherty Hall is missing its first floor between 
lecture,halls 2315 and 2210, but if you walk - 
to where it would be from the outside (Baker 
side)', theres something even more intriguing. 
If you pull back the bushes on the 2210 side, 
they reveal a staircase leading to the physics 
lab, and beyond that  darkness. Worse yet, 
if youre coming out of the physics lab, theres 
an invisible (yet necessary) step you have to 
take to avoid plummeting into oblivion.
Top of Flagstaff Hill
With dense trees and no lights, the top of 
Flagstaff Hill is a downright scary place to be. 
Any little movement could be someone (or 
something) lurking in the shadows. The paths 
slope ominously up into the dark, leading to 
creaking trees and chilling winds. The police 
patrol the area once in a while, but its still a 
good place to hang out and tell scary stories, 
or play tricks on people.
CFA foundry in Doherty Hall
Follow the stairs in Doherty Hall all the way 
down and suddenly youre in the D-level 
basement, which houses the foundry, where 
art students once used tools and machinery for 
metal works. Although the foundry has been 
closed for health and hazard reasons, it is no 
less scary. The foundry.is cold and drafty. Now. 
dark and abandoned, its corners are filled with, 
dust and the remnants of old projects that add 
to the creepy effect.
Behind Scaife Hall
A small path leads around the back of Scaife 
Hall, usually considered one of the less 
exciting buildings on campus. However, this 
path leads through a horrifying area where 
many a random object has been spotted, 
including a child's inflatable swimming pool. 
As your feet crunch dead leaves (no matter 
what time of year it is), its easy to imagine ax 
murderers jumping out of the bushes, where 
even the nearby professors could not hear your 
scream over the sound of grading.
Wean side stairs
The stairwell on the side of Wean Hall, closest 
to Doherty Hall, intrigues many students  
even visiting alumni ask about whether or not 
"Architects Leap is still there, the stairwell 
that spirals straight down from the eighth 
to the third floor of Wean. Legend has it that 
many students, archies in particular, used to 
jump from the top in attempted suicide  and 
the poem painted along each landing going 
down the stairs continues to haunt students 
today.
Behind Wean
On the way to the Physical Plant Building (or 
the math department) between Wean and 
Hamerschlag Hall, there is a small parking 
lot for motorcycles and Vespas. At the end 
of the parking lot, a forever-unlocked gate 
leads to steps to what looks like a generator. 
Continuing along the side of the generator, an 
ominous ladder leads down to the small street 
behind Wean. The ladder looks rickety, and 
the whirr of the machinery combined with the 
darkness by the generator definitely give an 
uneasy feeling.
Shaleya Solomon | Staffwriter
/ofeature
pillbox io
Michael Menchaca | Art Staff
8

---------------------------------------------------

EATSCELEBRATE HALLOWEEN - NO
recipes
After stuffing yourself with candy you might be interested 
in some Halloween-inspired goodies that are slightly more 
substantial. Try out some of these easy recipes for your 
holiday celebrations and throughout the year.
Easy Chocolate Pumpkin Cake
This cake, made with pre-packaged ingredients, will be 
a hit at any holiday party. Its quick, festive,.and a great 
alternative to traditional pumpkin desserts.
1 box chocolate cake mix, 15 oz. canned pumpkin, 1/4 cup 
water, 1 container frosting (any Variety), Halloween candy 
decorations (optional).
Preheat oven according to directions on cake mix. In 
a medium mixing bowl, combine water, cake mix, and 
pumpkin. Mix well until batter is uniform in appearance. 
Pour equal amounts of batter into two 8" cake pans. Bake 
for recommended time according to cake mix instructions. 
When done, remove from oven and let cool. Place first 
cake on serving plate and spread a layer of frosting on the 
surface. Place second cake on top and frost remainder of 
cake thoroughly. Decorate as desired.
Alternatives: Dont like chocolate? Substitute a box of 
spice, white, or yellow cake mix-instead.
Pumpkin Pie Ice Cream
Ever wanted to create a custom flavor of ice cream? Nows 
your chance. This recipe combines the taste of pumpkin pie 
with the coolness of ice cream, and its easy to make.
VZ gallon vanilla ice cream, softened, 15 oz. canned
pumpkin, 1 tsp. ground cinnamon, 1/2 tsp. ground ginger, 
1/4 tsp. ground cloves, 1 pre-made graham cracker crust.
Once the ice cream is softened (but not completely 
melted), pour contents into large mixing bowl. In separate 
'bowl, combine pumpkin, cinnamon, ginger, and cloves 
until thoroughly mixed. Combine pumpkin mixture with 
ice cream. Break crust into small pieces and mix desired 
amounts into ice cream mixture. Pour contents into freezer 
container and freeze until ice cream hardens.
Alternatives: Make an ice cream pie: Instead of breaking 
crust into pieces, pour ice cream mixture into crust. Cover 
with plastic wrap. Freeze until ice cream is solid.
Pumpkin Seed Trail Mix
This is a fall version of trail mix that can help keep you 
focused and satisfied throughout the day.
Pumpkin seeds (one pumpkins worth), one bag candy corn, 
one bag mixed dried fruit, salt, to taste.
Place raw pumpkin seeds on baking sheet and sprinkle 
with salt. Bake 10 minutes (if dried), 15-20 minutes (if wet), 
or until they begin to brown. Let seeds cool. Mix seeds, 
candy corn, and dried fruit.
Alternatives: Vary the fruit-to-candy ratio to create a 
different taste every time.
Amanda Cole | Staffwriter
CANDY CORN REQUIRED
movies
Halloween is a time for scary things, and nothings scarier 
than an old horror movie. Despite the flashy special effects 
often found in todays honor movies, creepy old movies like 
Rosemary's Baby still maintain a following.
Hunt Library Video Collection Manager Jeff Hinkelman 
attributes this popularity in part to old films character 
types. Some of the older films survive better because youre 
sympathetic [to the monster], he said, using The Mummy as 
an example. "How much do you really connect with the Saw 
guy?
Gary Kaboly, director of exhibition for the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers, believes that the love of classic horror films is 
due instead to their superior writing and acting. But these 
advantages often fail to appeal to young audiences, he added. 
Younger fans do not have the patience to follow the story, he 
said.' They prefer to be shocked.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers shows old horror movies during 
the Halloween season and sometimes during the Sunday 
night Directors Series at the Regent Square Theater. For 
example, Filmmakers recently showed Rosemary's Baby, 
written and directed by Roman Polanski in 1968. This creepy 
thriller details the unusual pregnancy of its main character, 
Rosemary, who begins to panic when even her friends and 
family start plotting against her.
There are many other vintage horror movies perfect for 
Halloween. For a good scare, Hinkelman recommends the 
following:
The Mummy (1932) Directed by Karl Freund, this movie 
depicts a mummy resurrected after almost 4000 years that 
tries to reunite with its love. Elements of horror combine with 
the universal theme of undying love.
The Unknown (1927) This is a silent film starring Lon Chaney 
and directed by Tod Browning (Dracula). The film  too zany 
to explain  stars an armless carnival knife-thrower.
Halloween (1978) A 6-year-old boy murders his older sister 
and is sent to a mental institution. Fifteen years later, one day 
before Halloween, he breaks out and trouble ensues.
Dracula (1931) Despite the number of modern remakes, the 
Tod Browning version of Dracula remains the best. Most 
people are familiar with the plot of Dracula, but this movie is 
worth watching for its acting and atmosphere. In recent years, 
the film was re-scored, so youll need to find a copy without 
the new music for the original effect.
Aside from Hinkelmans recommendations, you might also try 
Tod Brownings other films (Freaks, London After Midnight, 
and more) and classic Universal flicks like Frankenstein (1931) 
and The Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954), in addition 
to slightly newer movies The Thing (1951) and Invasion of the 
Body Snatchers (1956).
Amanda Cole | Staffwriter
Jennifer Kennedy | Art Staff
feature Q
pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

Did you know?
A
Oct. 30,1907
Oct. 26, 1982
Oct. 27, 1997
Oct. 28, 2002
An announcement in The Tartan 
advertises a mass meeting for the 
entire student body. Can you imagine 
our current student body all gathering 
under one roof? The closest thing we 
have to that is porn in the UC (courtesy 
of AB).
A blurb advertises the upcoming 
Golden Apple Pageant, to occur at 
halftime in the Homecoming football 
game. The writer refuses to divulge 
the details of the event, except that it 
will include the Homecoming Queen 
and her court. The possibilities are 
endless: free golden apple pie, students 
dressed like golden apples, students 
juggling golden apples? There is no 
wrong answer.
A full-page ad encourages students 
to attend a BYOB tuition protest rally 
in front of Warner Hall, inspired by 
the 19-percent increase for 1982-1983 
school year. Tuition has continued 
to increase, but I haven't heard of 
any campus-wide protests  with or 
without our OB.
Comedian Andy Richter comes to 
Carnegie Mellon...in 1997. That would 
have been cool about five years later, 
when people actually knew who he 
was.
An article in Pillbox reveals some 
haunted locations around Pittsburgh. 
Spooky spots to avoid (or seek out): 
a former Underground Railroad hub at 
Duquesne University: the William Pitt 
Student Union, built where Schenley 
Hotel stood; and 1129 Ridge Ave., a 
North Side house said to be Americas 
most haunted.
y\
Oct. 30, 2006
The Tartan turns 100, and the paper 
has come a long way since 1906, when 
it debuted as an eight-page weekly 
that mostly covered football. An article 
explains how The Tartan has evolved 
and expanded, in addition to recalling 
some of its quirkier moments: In the 
1970s, for example, an entertainment 
writer turned in a review of a restaurant 
that didnt actually exist.-
Sarah Mogin | Pillbox Editor
10 campus
I pillbox 10.29.07
Library floor rankings
From restrooms to Rothko, cookies to couches
Whether pushing the blue handicapped 
button or pulling open the unusually 
heavy glass door, everyone entering the 
lobby of Hunt Library is thinking the same 
thing: Which floor? Maybe you have a 
meting on a specific floor, maybe theres 
a designated spot where you're meeting 
your friends, or maybe you just want a 
white-chocolate macadamia nut cookie 
from Maggie Murph Caf. Nevertheless, all 
Carnegie Mellon students must eventually 
face this decision  many on a daily basis.
So, which floor do you go to? Each floor 
has its own strengths and weaknesses; 
sometimes, you might even choose an 
inferior floor because it suits your needs. 
But though each has its'merits, the proper 
ranking of all the floors is not subjective. 
Some floors are intrinsically better than 
others. So follow the rankings below, and 
the only tough question youll have to ask 
yourself is whether that macadamia nut 
cookie is worth the calories.
1. The Fourth Floor
If you dont mind the tiresome walk up the 
four flights of steps  youll be winded  
ihe fourth floor is definitely worth the trip. 
To start, its the prettiest of all the floors. 
Open the door, and you are instantly struck 
by the elegant wooden exterior of the Fine 
& Rare Book Room, Mark Rothkos abstract 
painting "Green, Red, on Orange on the 
wall, and the cushioned chairs of warm 
and bright colors. The layout is spacious 
yet cozy, in a style diffrent from all the 
other floors.
But the fourth floor is more than just eye 
candy; It combines the best attributes 
of the second and third floors: Individual 
desks Offer the quietness of the third floor 
without the stuffiness, while larger tables 
offer the gregariousness of the second floor 
without the noise. In the past, the fourth 
floor was lacking in electrical outlets, 
but some new ones have been installed, 
primarily along the front windows  so 
bring your laptop and enjoy the view.
2. The Third Floor
Given the rigorous academic cliinate of 
Carnegie Mellon, one cannot take a truly 
quiet study space for granted. And the
third floor offers just that, over and over 
again  it is never not quiet. It is this 
consistency that gives the third floor such 
a high ranking. The stringent atmosphere 
can get annoying, but thats the price you 
pay for such reliable silence.
3. The First Floor
The couches that you see when you 
first enter the library are indicative of 
the first floor in general. They look like 
theyd be really comfortable  like the 
way the couches in Starbucks are always 
comfortable  but when you actually sit 
on them, they are firm and oddly shaped. 
Overall, the couches are lacking, kind of 
like the first floor. The floor is nice because 
it has the caf and enough computers to 
go around. The bustling atmosphere is also 
appealing, but if you're really trying to get 
work done, the first floor is pretty useless.
4. The Basement
The basement feels like a basement. The 
bathrooms  especially the womens 
 are consistently less clean than the 
average bathrooms on campus. The new 
study rooms are nice, though they cannot 
accommodate many students at once.
The library uses the basement for all of 
its leftover stuff. And nothing is more 
fustrating than trying to use those weird 
Linux computers and failing completely.
5. The Second Floor
The second floor is unquestionably the 
worst floor. Every night, large grobps of 
people gather around the tables, talking 
loudly and laughing obnoxiously. The one 
secluded table, off to the right between 
two bookshelves, is almost always 
occupied. Finally, since the majority of 
the tables are in the center aisl and thus 
far away from the walls, most students 
stfggle to find outlets. Its just a bad floor.
jf f
Steve Weinberg | Staffwriter
S 'I
d
1
Jesse Kummer I Photo Staft
;

---------------------------------------------------

All Hail the Jon by Jon Samuelsjttheninja@cmu.edu
They say the 
worst battle a 
man can fight is 
the one in which 
he fights with 
himself.
Although he 
will always 
inevitably 
win,
he will 
always 
inevitably 
lose.
Untitled.dwg by Grace Whang
Hrm...
now do I want 
a glazed donut 
or a chocolate 
one with 
sprinkles?
Either way, 
I defeat 
myself.
BUT...
...I'M A LITTLE 
BIT CONFUSED.
4l THOUGHT 
/ YOU / 
L USUALLY I 
] NEVERM DRESS UP 
FOR i
ledorisggar
Well played, 
worthy adversary,
well played.
http: / /www. an drew, emu. edu /user/jsamuel 1 / ahtj
gwhang@andrew
SHOULD PROBABLY GET SLEEP MORE OFTEN.
Cheese Cancer by Matt Sandlermrsandle@andrew
You get an F, theres no such 
thing as "gaydar".
comics 11
' pillbox 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

Almost Exactly by Laura DanielsIfd220@nyu.edu
Catastrophic Success by Lizzee Solomon
William Shatner zapped from new Star Trek movie
lizzeesolomon@cmu.edu
The Gentlemens Club by Billy Small, Nate Lewis, and Ray Bowman
Okay, you're up.
What? I haven't picked 
a song yetiPick Dirty Lovsn. 
Its a crowd pleaser.
What if I <gefc sta<ge fright?
Here's a tip. Just pick a <s}irl n the 
front row and sing your heart out. 
You!! forget about the crowd.
Uhm.,, Hey 
everyone,*,utaa
Mttft
wsmall@andrew
This one's for you, darlirv. 
It's called Dirty lovm\
mappropnate
mm
! dumo, guys, she left after 
the first verse,
Yeah, we ran into her, She said 
she wanted to meet you in the
Sounds
19 comics
I M pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

Horrorscopes
aries You have skid marks on your underwear.
mar 2l-apr.19Sorry Zorrie by Annie Bodhidatta nbodhida@andrew
DO YOU GUYS THINK SHES ONE OF S? .
taurus
apr. 20-may 20
Turn on PBS right away. Boobbah is on,
gemmi
may21iun. 21
Find the exact location of your birth, go there, and plant a tree.
cancer
jun. 22-jui. 22
Dont wash your clothes until you see a bird again,
Today, you will become a better person,
Sounds Good to Me by Rachel Berkowitz
If you start eating a lot of butter, you will get fat.
scorpio
oct. 23-nov. 21
No more pudding for you. Youve had enough, but you can have some 
butter.
Ill be waiting for you in the basement of the library. Bring a spoon.rberkowi@andrew
zwallnau@andrewHigh Contrast by Zach Wallnaucapricorn
dec. 22-jan.l9
Your sign is a sea-goat, so nobody will say hi to you this week.Cut ft . H<M>I AM 
UiMtiMG Jou +0 
vs YBS-WMP'sf
Dont touch any fallen leaves or you will fall,
Michael Mallis | Junior Staffwriter
comics 1Q
pillbOX 10.29.07 I

---------------------------------------------------

Sudoku
Difficulty: hard Difficulty: easy
329
6159
96
5784
26714
3659
23
3195
281
895
93428
65
2645
39
7564
32
21948
759
Play online, including a bonus puzzle, at 
http://www.thetartan.org/comics/sudoku
Solutions to last issues puzzles
75l863924372594186
832419657156783924
946752381984261753
528197436491852367
367284195823176495
194635278765349218 1
1 485921763647925831
213576849519438672 j
679348512238617549
Crossword
1234
5t
678
9IS
111213
1415
9'
17
1
18
1
202122
232425
If
262728293031
32333435

36
373839
.
40
41

43
44454647
SI
4849505152
5354555657
58

59
il
60
616263
6465
1
66
Courtesy of www.bestcrosswords.com
THEARRNADI
1. Astonish
6. Staffs
10. Epic poetry
14. Grow to maturity
15. Sheltered, nautically
16. Gloom
17. Put forth
18. Coffin stand
19. One hunted
20. Northern lights
23. Engage in espionage
24. Yale student
25. Cooking container
26. Vigor
27. Yard surrounding a barn
32.- Scottish Gaelic
35. Theatrical entertainment
36. Negative vote
37. Make urban
41. Agency of the United Nations
42. Past tense of will
43. Locks up
44. Entirety
46. Tasteless items, junk
48. Epiploy, utilize
49. Abbreviation of the name Edward
50. Falsehood
53. Curtailment in spending
58. Spouse
59. Banned apple spray
60 .___de Leon
61. Initial stake in a hand of poker
62. Irritate
63. Spanish river
64. Shed tears
'65. Story, often rooted in folklore 
66. Curt
1. Regions
2. State of confusion
3. Mimicry
4. Nothing
5. Dinner course
6. Jewish scholar
7. Potpourri
8. Antlered animal
9. Withered
10. Hire
11. Rigidly austere
12. Minerals
13. What's up
21. High mountain, as found in central 
Europe
22. Sleep issue
26. Latin word which means "for every"
27. Abdomen
28. Ardent
29. Furrow
30. Tear down
31. Stains
32. Expel gas or odor
33. Fix up
34. Small statue
35. Defeat decisively
38. Young hooter
39. Hawaiian food
40. It may be picked
45. Out, in bed
46. Vietnamese New Year
47. Experts
49. Trio
50. Vernacular
51. Become liable for
52. Excrete from the body
53. Ruin
54. Fruit-filled pie
55. Hip bones
56. Audacity
57. Ark builder
58. Mouth
U
 comics
pillbOX 10.29.07

---------------------------------------------------

M0NDAY10.29.07
University Lecture Series:
Jay Apt. Adamson Wing, Baker 
Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
10 Years. Rex Theatre. 7:30 p.m. 
Ryan Adams and The 
Cardinals. Carnegie Music 
Hall. 8 p.m.
Rent-A-Dog. The Cut. 12-4 p.m.
TUESDAY10.30.07
School of Art Lecture Series: 
Rochelle Steiner. McConomy 
Auditorium. 5 p.m.
Drink & Draw, brillobox. 6 p.m. 
$10.
Tori Amos. Benedum Center.
8 p.m. $34.50 to $40.50. 
412.456.6666.
WEDNESDAY10.31.07
International Relations Lecture.
Rangos 1.10:30 a.m.
MSTRKRFT Halloween Costume 
Party. Rangos Ballroom. 9 p.m. $5.
THURSDY11.01.07
Documentary Salon. Melwood 
Screening Room. 7 p.m.
Nickel Creek. Carnegie Library of 
Homestead. 8 p.m. 412.323.1919. 
$30, $32.
FRIDY11.02.07
The Chinese Stars. Andy Warhol 
Museum. 8 p.m. $8.
The Fiery Furnaces. Mr. Smalls 
Theatre & Funhouse. 8 p.m.
The Machine. Rex Theatre. 8 p.m. 
412.323.1919.
SATURDAY11.03.07
Author Jeff Gammage.
Courtesy ot www.mckelcreek.com
Bluegrass trio Nickel Creek is 
visiting the Carnegie Library of 
Homestead Thursday.
Courtesy of Amy Glunta
Brother and sister Matthew and 
Eleanor Friedberger are The Fiery 
Furnaces, coming Friday to Mr. 
Small's Theatre & Funhouse.
Magee-Womens Hospital (UPMC), 1:30 
p.m. $5.
The Bothersome Man. Regent 
Square Theater. 4 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon Contemporary 
Ensemble. CFA. 5 p.m.
Bhangra in the Burgh. Soldiers & 
Sailors Memorial Hall. 7 p.m.
Aether. Byham Theater. 8 p.m.
SUNDAY11.04.07
Hawthorne Heights. Mr. Smalls 
Theatre & Funhouse. 7 p.m.
MONDAY11.05.07
Paper Cuts. Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts. 6:30 p.m.
ONGOING
Paintings in the Style of Janet 
Fish. Chatham University. Nov. 1-27. 
412.365.1106.
Streets of America. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. Nov. 1-11. 412.621.4445. 
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey 
Circus. Mellon Arena. Nov. 1-4. 
412.323.1919.
Future Ten 4 Play Festival. Future 
Tenant. Nov 2-10. 412.612.9000. 
Walkabout. Harris Theater. Nov. 2-3. 
412.682.4111.
Strange Girls. Melwood Screening 
Room. Nov. 2-3. 412.682.4111.
Grace is Gone. Regent Square 
Theater. Nov. 2-3. 412.682.4111.
Glass Lips. Regent Square Theater. 
Nov. 3-4. 412.682.4111.
Beaufort. Regent Square Theater.
Nov. 3-4. 412.682.4111.
Punks Not Dead. Melwood Screening 
Room. Nov. 6-7. 412.682.4111.
Want to see your event here? E-mail 
calendar@tlietartan. org.
Classifieds
For Rent. South Side 
Slopes, convenient location 
near the Works! 3BR/JBA 
house, fully renovated, 
perfect for students, on 
busline, $875, 412-983- 
3685
Meyran Avenue. Extremely 
large third floor loft. Kitchen, 
new bathroom, vaulted 
ceiling. Security building 
with intercom access and 
alarm system connected 
to the police. High Speed 
Internet included. Washer 
& Dryer on property. $499, 
plus some utilities. Pets 
okay. 412-745-0237
Bates Street Nice, bright 
two-bedroom apartment. 
Newec carpets. New paint. 
Brand new bathroom and 
kitchen. Three blocks from 
campus. Security building 
with intercom access and 
alarm system connected 
to the police. Washer and 
dryer on property. $599, 
plus some utilities. Pats 
okay. Available immediately. 
Call now 412-745-0237
Spring Break 2008.
Sell Trips, Earn Cash 
and Go Free. Call for 
group discounts. Best 
Deals Guaranteed! Best 
Parties! Jamaica, Cancn, 
Acapulco, Bahamas, S.
Padre, Florida. Information/ 
Reservation 1 -800-648- 
4849 or www.ststravel. 
com
Full-time position
available for individual 
to work with teen peer 
education program
focused on sexuality 
education and pregnancy 
prevention. Individual will 
facilitate and schedule 
peer education and other 
program presentations 
as well as actually deliver 
peer education programs. 
Requires high school 
diploma or equivalent. 
Must be able to present 
reproductive education 
programs to large groups, 
and work with and be 
accepted by pre-teens, 
teens and adults from 
diverse backgrounds. 
Valid drivers license and 
transportation required. 
Please send resume to: 
Adagio Health, Resume 
Box  552, Attn: Ellen, 
Kossman Bldg., Forbes 
& Stanwix, Suite 1000, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222. Equal 
Opportunity Employer.
Sitters Wanted. $10+ per
hour. Register free for jobs 
near campus or home. 
www. student-sitters. com.
THEARNAi v e riFday C hnJJpU 
THEARNAi t C Sas:iday C hnJJpU 
THEARNAi / C S:Tday C vntJpU
Marek Janowski, conductor  Alisa Weilerstein, cello
BRAHMS: Symphony No. 3
HAYDN: Ceiio Concerto No. 2 in D major
BRAHMS: Hungarian Dances Nos. 20,10,3/1Enjoy fhe genius of 8rohms with his Symphony No. 3 and delightful Hungarian Dances. Plus, Alisa Weilerstein performs one of Haydn's cello showpieces.
0rder from the ticket box located at the 
^formation desk in University Center.
Student tickets only $12 (GSA $8} 
faculty and Staff tickets only $17 
www.ptttsburghsymphony.org/cmutlx
Student Rush Tickets available at Heinz Hall two hours prior to concert.
>-
Hor scpe or NW YORK ,MELION
,1K)!A SPONSORS
WQED fm89.3
.calendar 1
pillbOX 10.29.07 I

---------------------------------------------------

wanna cappella.
A cappella group Soundbytes finished its performance with a rendition 
of the Spice Girls hit "Wannabe" during a concert Saturday night at 
the Underground. Some of the singers came in costume; on the left, 
senior science and humanities scholar Ashleigh Molz dressed up as a 
member of a cappella groupThe Originals, which also performed.
gallery
