BOHR LECTURES ' 
TODAYTOMORROW 
ROOM 209SCIENCEarmgif &tan
TICKETS FOR 
JUNIOR BANQUET 
ON SALE NOW
VOL. XVIII. NO. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1923
CARNEGIE DAY 
BRINGS NOTED 
DIPLOMAT HERE
Prince Caetani, Ambassador 
From Italy to United States, 
Delivers Principal Address 
at Annual Exercises
PEP RALLY FOLLOWS
The organ rumbled out a thunder 
o welcome. There was excitement 
in the air, and all seemed happy as 
they gathered together in the Car
negie Music Hall for the eleventh 
annual celebration o Carnegie Day.
The student, orchestra, of the Mu
sic Department, opened the program. 
They rendered a beautiful piece un
der the direction of Prof. J. V. 
OBrien, and received volumes of ap
plause. The Rev. Alexander Mann, 
delivered the invocation; following 
that, Dr. T. S. Baker introduced the 
speaker. Prince Gelasio Caetani, 
Hoyal Ambassador from Italy to the 
United States. The Prince presented 
some very sound facts from his own 
experiences, that were of great in
terest to the student at college. He 
also pictured quite clearly the condi
tion and attitude of the Italy of to
day.
A motion picture taken a few years 
ago, of Andrew Carnegie, was thrown 
upon the screen. This was quite an 
unexpected surprise and was heavily 
applauded by the student body, as 
most of the students have never had 
the opportunity of seeing our founder 
in person. Dr. Baker then read 
a letter of regret from Mrs. Carnegie, 
in which she stated her sorrow in 
being unable to attend the assembly. 
November 25, is the actual birthday 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DR. RALPH URMY SPEAKS
TO VAGABOND MEMBERS
The Vagabond Club which meets In 
the Wesley Foundation Hall of the 
Oakland M. E. Church, Forbes street, 
every Sunday evening from 5:45 to 
7:30, and which every student is in
vited to attend, will have Dr. Ralph 
Urmy, pastor of the Bellevue M. E. 
Church, as the speaker for next Sun
day evening. In addition to vocal and 
instrumental music, a dramatic read
ing will be given. The luncheon is 
25 cents.
ANNUAL CHRISTMAS 
C. I. T. GUILD FETE
Dancing, Stunts, Refreshmentsfin Union and Lang
ley Lab. Dec. 8
Five Hundred Tickets 
Allotted to Students
Five Hundred Students Will 
be Admitted to Annual 
Clan Banquet
Five hundred tickets to the joint 
athletic luncheon being held on Sat
urday, December 8, under the aus
pices of the Varsity Clan and the 
Pittsburgh Clan, have been allotted 
to the student body. These tickets 
will be sold at $2.00 each, flrst to 
Seniors and Juniors, and after that, 
as far as the allotment will go. This 
luncheon will be an affair long to bo 
remembered, -for it will be bigger, 
peppier and more representative of 
Carnegie than any athletic banquet 
held in the, past. Seniors and Jun
iors should get their tickets at once 
from the Alumni 'Office or from rep
resentatives about the campus. Mon
day, December 3, the tickets will go 
on sale to Sophomores and Freshmen.
The entire faculty of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology is also in
vited by the Varsity Clan and the 
Pittsburg Clan to take part in the 
luncheon to be given December 8, at 
one oclock, in the William Penn 
Ballroom, in honor of the 1923 foot
ball team. The hearty co-operation 
of everyone in making this the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Do you know about the tradition 
established last year by the C. I. T. 
Guild? The Annual Christmas Car
nival is a rejuvination of the bazaar, 
that was formerly given by the girls 
of M. M. C.'C. The Guild was at that 
time a Maggie Murph organization, 
but last year, the whole order was 
changed, and at present the C. I. T. 
Guild, as it has come to be known, is 
composed of over three hundred mem
bers, from both Arts and M. M.
The increase in its membership, 
along with the incentive of a settle
ment house, lia added the necessary 
inspiration for activity. Committees 
are hard at work planning entertain
ment for the night of December 8.
On that night the Glee Club will 
open the carnival, as it did last year, 
with the procession of the Boars 
Head, Christmas carols, and solos.
Do you remember Krislringle 
Shanty and Jingle Bell Inn, where 
the fun held forth last year? Well, 
the Union will be again transformed 
into Santa Claus Kingdom, and Lang
ley Lab. will once more ring out with 
the fanfare of the carnival.
A number of stunts are being 
worked out for the entertainment and 
edification of everyone. The program 
will include some of the favorite ones 
from last year, and a great many now 
and original capers. Each stunt will 
be presented twice during the even
ing, in Kriskingles Shanty and Jin
gle Bell Inn.
The Collegiate Imps will grace the 
rostrum of Kriskingles Shanty. The 
orchestra for Jingle Bell Inn will bo 
something in the nature of a pleaaant 
(Continued on Page Two.)
WED. WILL BE LAST DAY 
FOR THISTLE PICTURES
Miss'Breed Speaks to 
the Secretarial Clubs
The first dinner of the Secretarial 
Club was held Wednesday evening, 
November 21. Dean Breed, as the 
guest of honor, gave an interesting 
account of her visit to the Boston 
Secretarial Conference. A knowl
edge of shorthand and a command of 
English were considered essential 
qualities of the efficient secretary. 
The importance of good character, 
especially in the form of reliability 
and loyalty, was also strongly em
phasized.
To show how efficient Margaret 
Morrison secretaries really are, a 
clever stunt, contrasting the secre(Continued on Page Four.)
Most of the Thistle activity during 
the past week has been confined to 
the work of the photographer and to 
the Senior elections. These same ac
tivities will be continued this week. 
Several class pictures had to be re
taken due to the small number in 
the semester. There is no real rea
son why every student should not be 
in his o,r her class picture. It was 
probably due to this that there was 
a much greater turn out for the sec
ond picture.
The Thistle Board announces that 
practically all of the Senior and fra
ternity pictures have been taken. The 
photographer will leave the Campus 
tomorrow and those who have failed 
to have their pictures taken will be 
obliged to go to Wilkinsburg if they 
want their picture to appear in the 
Thistle.
The proofs of pictures already tak
en are coming in very slowly. The 
Board urges that the selected proofs 
be turned in at once. A representa
tive of the photographer will be in 
(Continued on Page Three.)
LUTHERAN STUDENT CLUB
GIVES DELIGHTFUL PARTY
A pleasant evening was spent last 
Friday at the Lutheran Student 
House, at the corner of Bayard anu 
Dithridge streets. Both Carnegie and 
Pitt were well represented. A short 
business meeting -was held first, at 
which time the question was dis
cussed as to whether the Lutheran 
Club of Pittsburgh would send a dele
gate to the Lutheran Conference, to 
be held in Springfield, Ohio, Decem
ber 7, S. and 9. The club is planning 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Football Issue of the Puppet to
Be Bigger and Better Than Ever
Once more that Carnegie Spirit, 
Puppet, makes its bow on the Cam
pus with a football issuebigger, 
better, brighter and typical of all 
those other excellent qualities which 
it so obviously embraces.
But hist! We are just beginning 
to commence. Immediately preced
ing the Christmas recess, the Xmas 
issue will appear to perpetuate the 
fame of Santa-Clause. Again in the 
new year, a ne plus ultra number 
will scandalize the Campus, namely, 
that of Leap Year, embodying much 
material as no self-respecting Maggie 
Murph can afford to overlook.
Nevertheless and in spite of the 
Puppets unquestioned quality, it oc
casionally publishes contributions 
from mere students; at this partic
ular moment, as -well as in the past 
and in the future, it welcomes all 
puns, cartoons and other features of
CARNEGIE TECH GOES DOWN FIGHTING 
BEFORE THE WONDER TEAM FROM NOTRE 
DAME IN FINAL GAME OF SEASON, 26-0
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS
CLUB BAKE SALE TO BE 
HELD IN M. M. TOMORROW
The Household Economy Depart
ment offers you all kinds of Thanks
giving goodies at their market, which 
will open tomorrow morning at 10:30
A. M., in the Tea Room of the Mar
garet Morrison Building. This will 
be a novel affiair, and promises to 
attract much attention.
There will be numerous attractive 
booths at which you can.secure any
thing from plum-pudding to jellies 
and candyabsolutely all home-made.
The proceeds of the sale will go 
towards buying a piano for the prac
tice house.
REVERED SPONSOR 
AGAIN PROVES LOVE
Frank Lanahan, Steel Mag
nate, Gives Dinner and Par
ty to Football Squad
On the Tuesday after the Detroit 
gwme Mr. Frank Lanahan gave a din
ner and theater party for the mem
bers of the football squad. In a short 
speech he expressed his joy at being 
with the boys, and his pride in the 
record they had made. No one knows 
that record better, for no one follows 
Carnegie, teams more faithfully.
Mr. Lanahan first became officially 
connected with Carnegie in 1921 when 
he accepted an appointment to the 
Board of Trustees. In November of 
that year he was made chairman of 
several of the boards committees. 
Upon request of the alumni members 
of the Athletic Council, he waq ap
pointed the trustees athletic represen
tative.  In that capacity he has been 
a zealous co-operator In plans of the 
sports department and has given in
valuable advice in matters of athletic 
control. He used his influence to help 
bring about the creation of a separate 
athletic department with a graduate 
manager at its head, the biggest sin
gle step in the advancement of Car
negie sports. He Is an enthusiastic 
backer of all programs for the phys
ical development of all students.
In the world off tho campus Mr. 
Lanahans energy and ability aro just 
as successfully employed. 1-Ie is pres
ident of the Fort Pitt Malleable Iron 
Company, an official of the Red Cross 
and of the Boy Scouts, and a leador 
in almost every charitable drive in 
the City of Pittsburgh. If tho custom 
of previous years is followed, students 
will have an opportunity to see him 
the day the Varsity Cs aro prosonted 
to the football players.
Fighting Irish Again Prove 
Class as They Down Plaid 
on a Muddy Field Before 
Crowd of 30,000
FIVE PLAY LAST GAME
REGULATIONS FOR THE 
S0PH-PLEBE BANQUETS
By Fred C. Smith.
Playing on a muddy field boforo a 
crowd of 30,000 people, the Plaid 
dropped the final game of the season 
to the wonder team from South Beud 
by a score of 26-0. And a wonder 
team it was. It ran the ends, bucked 
the line, punted, and forward passed, 
with an unwavering precision which 
was pretty to watch, and we venture 
to say that the Fighting Irish were 
simply* unbeatable last Saturday: 
they had the best team In the country 
on the field that day.
We must give them credit, for the 
Scarlet Scotch, playing before a crowd 
of rabid enthusiasts played the best 
game of the year. They had every
thing. Their tackling was deadly, tile 
interference was as good as we have 
seen it, and, most of all, they had all 
the first which tradition gives to tho 
wearers of the Plaid. Practically any, 
team, excepting the Irish, would have 
been defeated by Carnegie that day, 
but it was the case of a fine team 
against a wonder toam.
Jimmy Robertson, playing his last 
game for Carnegie, completely 
eclipsed his former achievements 
against Pitt, W. & J., and Lehigh, and 
proved, without a doubt, that he is 
the best quarterback in tho district. 
A watched man from the beginning of 
the game, he tore off long gains again 
and again, and in addition ran back a 
kickoff farther than any has boon run 
on Forbes Field tills season; this 
against the fastest team in .the coun
try. On tho dofenso, ho was a towor 
of strength, often stopping tho ex
press train backs of tho Irish when 
he was the only man botweon them 
and a touchdown.
And ably seconding Jimmy camo 
the rest of tho team; Brumbaugh, Mofort, and Andorson outstanding.
Time after time they throw fear into 
the hearts of the Irish by showing 
flashes of that po\Vor which was being overshadowed by tho brillianco of 
a still more powerful aggregation. 
Time after time they broko through 
and stopped Rocknes pot plays, only 
to seo the Irish finally scoro behind 
a wall of interference and a display of 
brilliant running which was simply 
unstoppable. It is no dlsgraco to loso 
to n team like that. Wo wore out
played, outscored, but novor for a 
minute outfought. Up until tho last 
second our boys played like tlgors 
against the tank-llke attack of tho 
Invaders knowing that the game was 
practically lost, tlioy. still kopt up a 
stubborn dofonso, and whon thoy had 
tho ball, they ran It with tho dash and 
spirit of a winning toam.
But thoy were only human. Tho 
(Continuod on Pago Throe;)
WAYWARD MAGGIE MURPHS 
BROUGHT BEFORE SENATE
AND VIGILANCE COMMITTEE
Fifteen Plebos were brought beforo 
the M. M. Plebe Regulation Commit
tee last Tuesday. Two Plebes who 
had committed the maximum number 
of offenses were subjected to trial by 
the senate, and several more on addi
tional offenses will undergo senate 
trial also. The penalties imposed by 
the Sophs wero quite varied, including 
dusting the Senior Fence, rolling tho 
grass, roller-skating on the campus, 
wearing large signs bedecked with 
gloomy black ribbons, and performing 
Assembly stunts.
LATEST NEWS ON 
THE JUNIOR PROM
Orchestra Chosen From 
List*of Prominent Or
ganizations
Now that tho football season has 
ended the time is drawing near for 
the Sopliomore-Freshman banquet. 
The. Tartan has deemed it necessary 
that the following regulations be pub
lished at this time:
1. The banquet, should be held on 
Friday or Saturday night or on a 
night preceding a holiday.
2. The Plebe banquet shall be held 
sometime between the end of football 
season and the first of the second 
semester.
3. The place of banquet and all 
activities having to do with the ban
quet should be confined to a radius of 
fifteen (15) miles of the campus.
4. A class officer shall not under 
any circumstances miss more than 
one day of school preceding the day 
of the banquet.
5. No interference with registra
tion cards is permitted.6. No interference with organized 
recitation classes is permitted.
C. M. E. S. to Hold Next 
Meeting December 4th
humorous intent.
Students, whose literary tendencies 
have led them to offer Inspiration to 
the Puppet, should not be disheart
ened if they do not at once discover 
the fruits of their imagination dis
played in the following issue. The 
best contributions are sent to Judge 
and compete for a place in the Col
lege Wits column.
It is particularly with regard tc 
this latter item that the Puppet cries 
for original copy, since the mainte
nance of its former rank among col
lege comicsCarnegie tied with Penn 
State for fourth place last yearor 
seeking immortality by seizing flrst 
honors, can only be achieved by the 
close co-operation of the entire stu
dent body.
j When a witty thought suddenly obyou, scribble it down and 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The next meeting of the Carnegie 
Mechanical Engineering Society will 
be held on Tuesday, December 4. 
A man of wide experience and knowl
edge of his line of work, lias been 
obtained as the speaker for this 
meeting. The speaker. Mr. L. J. 
Lamber.ger, of the Duquesne Light 
Company, will have for his subject, 
Factors which determine the cost 
of central station power.
Sophomore, Junior and Senior me
chanicals are urged to come out to 
this meeting. The subject of C. M.
E. S. iitns will be taken up and or
ders for the pins may be placed at 
this time. This is your organization 
and a great measure of its success 
this year depends upon your attend
ance at all of the meetings.
The meeting of the society which 
was scheduled for today, has been 
called off due to unavoidable cir
cumstances.
Real estate experts believe that 
opening the football season has some
thing to do with the incraased erec
tion of hospitals.
The Kentucky Kernel.
Night School Smoker 
To be Held Dec. 14
The classes in the Electric Con
struction Department in Industries 
Night School have announced that a 
smoker for the men in these classes 
will be held in tho Union on Friday, 
December 14. The committee in 
charge has been at work for some 
weeks; they assure us that some 
very good entertainment will be pro
vided as well as refreshments and 
smokes. Dr. Baker, Director Morris, 
College of Industries, and Dr. Ilirig, 
director of Night School and Part 
Time Courses will be the guest on 
the occasion.
The committee made up of men 
from classes A, B, C, D, E, and the 
Radio Class in the Night School has 
been working on the arrangements 
for the smoker for some time. Their 
idea is to make the occasion a real 
get together time for the men. There 
are over two hundred men in these 
classes and it is expected that at 
least seventy-five per cent of this 
number will be present. Much at
tention is being paid to the program 
for the evening. Some of the mem
bers of the Drama Department liavp 
signified their willingness to help 
in making the affair a pleasant one.
Captain Bragdon Thinks 
Tartan Now Improving
The Junior Prom Committee is pro
gressing with its work. Thoy have 
not slackened their paco In tho 
slightost degree. Tho progress thoy 
are making Is really a bona-fide pvoof 
that tho Junior Prom will bo a won
derful success.
Considerable time has boon taken 
by the committee in picking an or
chestra. Evoryono knows that a 
good orchestra Is fifty por cent of a 
Proms success. While tho orchostrn has beon solocted, tho committoe 
deems It wise to withhold this in
formation for a fow weeks. Among 
tho orchostrns considered woro tho 
Garber Davis, tho Mason Dixon, Har
mons, Kentucky Seronadors and tho 
Tlglie Hughon Colloglana from Cornoli.
Tho contost for tho best sugges
tion of favors and tho way thoy nro 
to bo distributed, is still on. Sovoral 
vory good suggestions havo beon sub
mitted, but tho commlttoo wants 
moro. Any girl In tho Arts or Mar
garet Morrison School Is oliglblo for 
this contost and a handsome prize 
will be awarded tho wlnnor,
Girls, got to work. You might as 
well win tho prl'/.o as somoono olso. 
Just write your suggestions on a slip 
of paper and put It in tho school mall 
box, care of tho Tartan. Romomhor, 
though, that tho suggestion must bo 
practical nnd appropriate.
Noxt woolt will bring along sovoral 
now surprlsos as far as tho Prom Is 
concerned. Keep you oyos open for 
thorn. The Commlttoo has set out 
to make this tho groatost Junior 
(Continuod on Pago Four.)
GRAPHICA CONTINUING 
SUCCESSFUL CAMPAIGN
One dollar a dozon for tho noatoat 
Christmas Cards ovor sold on tho 
campus, or anywhoro for that mat
ter, and your name printed on tho 
cards with no oxtra charge. Thats 
tho proposition that tho Graphlca is 
offering this year, and It cant bo 
equalled anywhere.
Th'b printers aro selling their cards, 
too; ordors for over eight hundred 
dozen cards havo been taken already, 
and three times this many moro or
ders are expected boforo the cam
paign is over. The sales will bo con
tinued until about ten days beforo 
Christmas vacation. After that the 
Graphlca will be busy filling the or
ders already taken. The printers are 
already beginning to work nights in 
order to fulfill the demands of many 
anxious customers.
The greeting cards are being sold 
with fifty per cent of the price down 
so it is necessary to have a whole 
(Continued on Page Two.)
LOST ARTICLES MUST BE
TAKEN FROM LIBRARY NOW
A number of articles lost in tho Li
brary may bo claimed thoro boforo 
December 1. After that time they will 
be sent to the receiving ollloe. The 
collection includes textbooks, note
books, a package containing a pair of 
mens oxfords, rosary beads, a mans 
hat, knitting needles and yarn, tonnis 
shoes, etc.
DR. BOHR LATEST 
CAMPUS SPEAKER
Famous Physicist is Among 
Group of Speakers for 
Winter Program
The boost made at the beginning of 
tho fall term that tho campus speak
ers listed for this winter were the best 
ever brought to Carnegie is being 
made good. Each of the speakers 
listed is a famous person, and each 
has an Interesting message to give to 
the students.
Carnegie is especially honored in 
having Dr. Nlols Bohr, of tho Univer
sity of Copenhagen as its speakpr for 
this week. Dr. Bfilir gave a talk on 
"The Structure of the Atom in Room 
209 of the Science Building last night, 
and tonight and tomorrow night ho 
will continue on tho samo subject.
Dr. Bohr lins mndo tho atom Ills 
chief subject of investigation, with 
tho result that through his study ho 
was glvon tho Nobol Prize for Physics 
in 1922. At tho time he won tho prize, 
Dr. Bohr was only 37 yoars old, the 
youngest man ovor to win that honor.
At prosont Dr. Bohr is head of tho 
Departmont of Physics at tho Univer
sity of Coponhagon, where he teachos 
as well as carrloH on Investigations 
along sclontlflc linos.
All Carnoglo mon and women interostod In sclonco aro urged to hoar Dr. 
Bohr spoak, for thoy lire suro to hoar 
an Interesting and profitable talk.
it Is a far cry from modern sclonco 
to tho Goldon Ago, yot in two success
ive weeks Carnoglo has had spoakorB 
for both subjects, following that old, 
old provorb about tho benefits of valioty.
Last wook, Dr. Ersklno talked on 
the Golden Ago, tho pastoral, and tho 
Birth of Poetry.
"The groat logonda and formulas o.l' 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Maggie Murph Science 
Club Holds Soph Party
In a letter addressed to Col. Cun
ningham of the R. O. T. C., Captain 
Bradon, who is now at West Point 
says in part:
"Mrs. Bragdon gets tho Tartan and 
I note many articles about tho R. O. 
T. C. and what Is more gratifying 
they lack the apologetic pseudo-Joklng 
twang that they were formerly fla
vored with. So I decided you must 
be getting some In good publicity 
licks.
Captain Bragdon was with the Mili
tary Department at Cameglo to? three 
years: He left last July to become an 
instructor at West Point. His wife is 
a Margaret Morrison graduate, and 
both are very much Interested in Car
negie affairs.
NON-DEGREE MEN HOLD 
ANNUAL MELTING DEC. 3
Olficors for tho year 10211-24 will lie 
elected at tho annual mooting of tho 
Non-Dogroo Association Monday, DoconiUor II, in Room 104, Industrie!, 
Nominees for ottico will ho Hiihmlttod 
by F. McKIvoon, chairman of the nom 
Inatlng commit too. Tho commlttoo 
will also report on the necessary 
changes to the constitution.
AIL short course men, both ilrnt and 
second year, aro eligible lor member
ship In the Non-Degree Association, 
and are expected to bo at this moot
ing. Records shows a total of 117 
mon enrolled In non-dogroo courses 
this your.
Tho purpose of the organization Is 
to provide a moans of co-oporatlng 
with degree mon, to promote tho so
cial life, and to encourage the par
ticipation Of short couruo mon In all 
sturonU activities. .Plans aro nov 
under wuy for a Binokor, a toa-danco, 
and a basketball team.
Romomhor the date Decomber 8; 
time, 4:30 P. M., the place, Room 104, 
Industries. Watch the bulletin boards 
for the list of nominees.
EIGHT SCIENCE 
MEN SELECTED 
BY TAU BETA PI
Annual Fall Pledging of Hon
orary Fraternity is Held at 
Last Science Assembly 
Mr. Anderson Speaks
DEPT. HEADS ATTEND
Predominant among the events of 
last weeks assemblies was the elec
tion to Tau Beta Pi of eight men in 
the College of Engineering. This 
election takes place in the fall and 
spring of each year and it is consid
ered a great honor to be so selected.
Those chosen at tho Engineering 
Assembly last week are: A. S. Car
ter, B. Broudy, W. F. Kaufman, G. B. 
McElhaney, .1. C. Miekle, Ellis Robert
son and P. F. Scliucker. A. C. Patter
son, the Sophomore with the best 
Freshman scholastic record, received 
a slide rule from Slide Rule" Trinks.
Tau Beta Pi is an honorary schol
astic fraternity which chooses its 
members from tho engineering stu
dents of prominont Institutions 
throughout tho country. Founded In 
18S5, It has grown to such size and 
maintained such high Idoals that it 
is now generally recognized as the 
honorary engineering fraternity analo
gous to Phi Beta Kappa in academic 
colleges. The local chapter has boon 
in existence since 1910 and chooses a 
certain number of men from the up
per classes.
At. tlio fall election, 111011 are soloct
ed from among tho upper quarter of 
the Senior class, while at tho spring 
election, mon from tho up por eighth 
of tho Junior class j^re choson.
William E. Mott, Director of tho 
(Continuod on Pago Throe.)
Football Stars Guests, 
At the Junior Banquet
Tickets Being Sold at $2.50  
To be Held at Schenley
Ono of tho sovoral novol fouturos 
oli ilio Junior lianquot of thla yoar CA 
Clio prosonco of tho two utars of tho 
rivai football toams of Creator Pittaburgh. Wo rofor to .laltoy Dohron of 
Pltt, and Jlniniy RobortHon ni' Carneglo. Noithcr noods any Intrudiletifai lo Ilio tllowora of tho fall sport 
In thla city, Jlmmya record and 
ahlllty aro too woll known to nooil 
any elaboratimi. Dohron Ima boon 
tho oiitnliindlng star of tho Piti team 
all Montani, and hia work al tho VV.
& .1. game placca li ini In th hall ol' 
fame, of Ilio University lor all timo.
Anyono.who aaw tho Curuoglo-l'IU. 
game wlll novor forgot tho worlc of 
tllla man. Timo and timo agalli whon 
Jiinmy throatonod to gol away, II, waa 
Boliron wlio stoppini li lui. On tlio 
othor hand. Il, wua Jlminy who atood  
botweon Dohron and a Lmichdown on 
noverai occasiona. At tlmoa tho game 
aoomed Ilice a personal acrap botweon 
theso two smallost 111011 In tho Ir reappetivo baokllelds, Thir presonco 
as guesta of honor is suro to add to 
tho Interest In tho bnnquot.
Tho bnnquot wlll ho held al tho Ho(Contlnuod 011 Pago Tliroo)
Technical Journal Will 
Have Excellent Articles
ALL MIDWESTERNERS
URGED TO BE AT BANQUET
Last Monday night the M. M. Sci
ence Club celebrated with a real 
taffy party in honor of the 'Sophs of 
the Science Department. When all of 
the most famous receipes had been 
tried, and strings of taffy decorated 
the ldtchen, the party tripped lively 
to the Ree Hall where the Sophs 
were requested to amuse their su 
perlors.
Impromptu recitations, solos 
dances and what nots were ex
ecuted in wonderful style. When 
the desire for amusement on the 
part of the members had subsided, 
the serious aspect of the evening 
presented itself.
The Sophs were ushered Into a 
dark room whore they knelt In a 
ring, whilst from tho othor world 
camo knocks and pauaos. Tho myterloua voice doomed that tho Sophs 
during tho week of tholr Initiation 
shall report dally to their superiors 
for ordors, and shall wear tho sym
bols of their pledges dally for one 
week.
Following tho verdict, weired per
sonages tied about tho necks of the 
subdued Sophs the beautiful symbols 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
The Mid-West Club Thanksgiving 
Banquet will be held at tho Bird 
Cage Tea Room, 0025 Penn Avo., 
East Liberty, to-night at 0:30. Tills 
party provides a splendid opportu
nity for those of the Mid-West to 
meet their neighbors and get ac
quainted.
A wonderful turkey dinner will be 
served, and there will be opportu
nity for dancing following tho meal 
for those who so desire. Festivities 
will cease at 10 oclock so that the 
girls will not need late permits.
Duo to tho increasing demand for 
good scientific articles by tho many 
technical publications, tho staff of 
the Carnoglo Technical Journal has 
been exceedingly fortunate in secur
ing an excellent discussion of prac
tical research.
Mr. Imhoff, Follow at the Mellon 
Institute of Industrial Research, who 
spent quite a number of years in 
steel works, has promised to furnish 
a description of blast furnace re
search as carried out by the man on 
the job. This is not only of intense 
interest to those connected with the 
steel industry, but Is full of suggesj tions for superintendents engaged in 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Maggie Murph Masks as Free Lance 
Takes Her Friend to Football Dance
By Don Gardner.
The theory that a girl, sans a date 
for a social function, sits at home and 
sulks the entire evening has been 
flattened flatter than a fraternity 
house pancake. In tho dim dark past 
when a handsome Adonis neglected to 
ralso tho ante to supply his erstwhile 
swootlo with a date or decided to cel
lar dig In the sacred products of some 
Apollos sphere of Influence, the afore
mentioned swootlo might perhaps 
havo contracted a sovoro caso of the 
lonoly blue and havo basked tho en
tire evening writing odes on Inconalatoncy or Tho Lovo S'ong of a Lout 
Lady. But not any moronot by a 
jugful of orchids.
It Hoems that tho modern and total
ly altruistic woman has doclded to got 
around, regardless of whether It be 
around the men or around with them. 
They go through all the motions of 
giving dances to which each and
every female who has any designs 
whatever on any male whatsoever 
may lead, drag, or carry that person. 
And so It should bo. That 1h, theo
retically it should bo. But wlmt Is 
sadder than seeing Bill Biffs room
mate cavorting around tho polished 
floor with Bills swootlo while Bill sits 
at homo reading tho newest love son
nets In tho Pollco Gazette, and all because lila roommates clothes look bet
ter on tholr owner than they do 011 
Bill? However, to quote one rabid 
feminist, "Its about time wo girls had 
some say In the mattor."
To got to tho story, however, wo 
must Imagine ourselves In tho myste
rious corridors of old M. M. Thero 
wo soo two flossy fommes discussing 
tho choice and chance theory as ap-. 
plied to dance Invitations. The time 
is Friday afternoon and the dance Is 
Friday evening. The idea Is that 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council. __________
Entered In the Postolllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
H. F. SIMPSON .................................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schcnlcy 9143
W. CUNNINGHAM ................................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone Schenley 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ........................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schonley 9189
FRED C. SMITH.....................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHICLPS.................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ............................................................................ Associate Editor
Telephone Schonley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES .................................................................................. Associate Editor
71 II WILSON ...................................................................... Associate Editor
W. WINNING ........................................................................................................ Nurf Editor
Telephone Sohonloy 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ...................................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schonley 9070
A. S. ANDHKW8 ................................................................................................ PorTelephone Schonley 9211
E. C. FRAZIER .............................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone Schonley 9143
A M KltOGH....................................................................................................Alumni Editor
It. vv. HLEATII .......................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ......................................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. p. COUSE, ............................................................................................................ Art E(|lt(,rDON GARDNER ............................................................................................ Special Writer
T. .1. DEMPSEY ................................................................................ Circulation Manager
B; BROUDY ............. ........ ............................................. Assistant Business Managor
W. M. GIBSON...................................................................Assistant Business Managor
!: EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
IOiitollo Garibaldi. EllzabetH Oordb'n, h. II. Harri, K. Fulmor, 11. D. 
Kalfolx, Wilma Stinor, Carol Kolslit, .1. M. Harly, W. F. Kaufman, F. h. 
Warnnr, N. C. Weflor,  F. Mdcauloy. V. 13. Smith, G. A. Lundciulst, D. M. 
Davliliwn, K. 10. KoarliH, F. M. McClelland, M. W. Clay, Ituaomary McCambrhli;''.____________________________________________________________________________
ATIII.HTIG CON'I'HIIUITOHH 
Ilolcn Corrao, G. 10. .Tacoliy, .1. Christoff, H. P. RanHlmch.
~ BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. MoBkovIt, .T. W. Mol.ro, I, ndle, II. h. Sandrock. A. Orodner, E. L.
ltoovoH. I. H. Seibert, I, 13. Krldlor, A. Barljrow, A. lorroton, K. O. Kennedy.
Tlio 10dltor-ln-0)Jlo[ 1 rusiionslble for tlio policy of tills paper; tho
MinmnluK I0dlt.or for llio inako up._________________________________________________
Tin: Tartan welcome all communications of Htudonl. interest, If signed.
Blgnaturo will bo withhold if desired. All nows ItoniB must bo In tlio student
ooBtoince bofore 4:30 Tliursday.__________________________________________________
Tarlan OlllceIloom G-A, Industries Building. Olllco Iioui-bDally 12:110 1:20._________________________________ _____. _____________________________________
RESPECT FOR PLEBE DRESS
Miss Helm Largely Responsi
ble for Rapid Improvement 
Shown This Year
DORM. CONDITIONS r 
GREATLY IMPROVED;SCRAPS 0 PLAID
By Mac.
Only 23 shopping day till Christ
mas. II' you dont believe me, count 
em.
Tho wearing of l^lobo hats, armbands, socks and tics by the 
Freshmen should not be looked upon by them as an unpleasant task, 
but should be considered a pleasurable duty. It is to uphold one of 
the strongest traditions of Carnegie that Plebes must wear their dis
tinctive dress, and that they arc punished by Sophomores for dis
obedience. 'The slovenly manner in. which the girls wear their armbands has 
caused this comment on the attitude of the Plebes, both men and 
women, toward this phase of regulations. Mo fit girls in the Fresh
man class are content to attach their armbands to their coal; sleeves 
at one end only witli an ungainly safety pin, while the other end 
dangles where it may. Such a sloppy addition to the girl's dress 
spoils the elToct of an otherwise neat appearance. A little care in the 
wearing of armbands will greatly improve the Plebe womens ap
pearance on tlio campus.Carelessness in this respect is not only noticeable in the girls, 
but also in tho men. Bach Pie bo seems to have his own method of 
wearing his hat, some being cocked far to ono side, some down over 
one eye, others on the back of the head, some as skull caps, but only 
n few neatly placed, slightly to one side of the head as they should 
bo worn.We do not beliove that tho fault lies entirely within the IMobe 
class, as tho Sophomoros are supposed to bo responsible for the Fresh
mens conduct in this matter. Tho. wearing of the distinctive 1*1,obe 
dross is the foremost regulation for the new student to observe, and 
it should be considered so by both Sophomore and Plobo.
Lot thoso uniforms, then, stand not for irksome regulation en
forced by a rival class, but as a proud badge of distinction for Car
negie mon and women, founded on ono of our greatest Carnegie 
traditions.
It is very Interesting to note the 
great Improvements which lmvo been 
made In the conditions surrounding 
the men's dormitories In the past 
two year, and especially during the 
present term.
During this year Improvements 
liave boon made In tlio kitchens of 
Welch and Henderson Halls, In the 
Sleeping porch of Hondorson Hall, 
and In numerous other places 
throughout tho seven dormitorios.
The policy this year Is to make 
tho rooms throughout the dormitories 
moro home-like. With this in view, 
ithas boon promised that there will 
be curtains for each room, and it Is 
said that thoro will eventually be In
dividual desk lamps for every stu
dent, Along this line, it is gratify
ing to know that with individual 
lights In prospect and night porters 
to look after tlio switchboards, there 
is loss tampering with the lights on 
tho part of tlio students.
Croat care is, taken In meeting each 
complaint which comes up In the 
dormitories. When a complaint Is 
turned In, It Is written In a book, as
signed to a workman to be adjusted, 
and checked after tho workman has 
satisfactorily fulfilled his duties. Con
sidering the fact that Miss 1-Iehn, the 
head of the men's dormitories, has 
only eleven women and three men at 
her disposal to take care of seven 
buildings, it can be said that the 
dormitories are well kept.
A rumor that it is now almost a 
pleasure to bo sick, has been started 
among the men of the dormitories 
by several men who have been sick. 
They claim that instead of having had 
| to rely upon the make-shift food sup
ply of Hoot-Mon and Slclbo Inn, they 
have received dainty little trays of 
food which were appetizing to a sick 
man, and which gave them the near
est Impressions, that they liav had 
since coming to Carnegie, of the care 
that they would receive when sick 
at home. Where the trays of food 
came from, only a few know, and 
they are guarding tho secret care
fully.
In general, Miss Helms policy of 
fair play towards the men, and the 
spirit which she has developed 
throughout tho dormitories, of co-oporatlon rather than coercion, is work
ing towards ono end, namely, better 
living conditions on tho campus, and 
eventually a bigger and better Car 
nogle Tocli.
Better still, there're only 13 actual 
school days before tho Xmas vaca
tion. All of which listens very fine, 
say we.
"Mid Semester Grades Bring No 
Deficiencies. So reads a headline 
and meansnothing! Last year such 
an announcement would have sig
nified a tremendous cataclysm (a 
good word), but now It tells us little.
Those who found time to steal an 
occasional glimpse at the books prob
ably have much for which to be 
thankful. For tho others the evil 
tidings should have been reserved 
until after the Thanksgiving recess.
How appropriate:
The melancholy days are here, 
The saddest of the year-----------
Don't get the impression from all 
this that "ye columnist has flunked 
out; not by a flock of P. Q.s.
Amen for the post-mortem.
VISITING GENERAL if 
REVIEWS R.O.T.C. IFOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Polish Commander Confers 
Unexpected Honor on C.
I. T. Battalion
THANKSGIVING
Alter tho first harvest of tho Ndw England Colonists in 1621. 
dovcrnor Bradford made provisions for a day of Thanksgiving and 
prayer.In :i.G2!3 a day ol! fasting and prayer in tho middle of drought was 
changed to Thanksgiving by the coming of rain during tho prayers.
And thus it always lum been that a day in annually soil aside by 
proclamation ol! the President of the United States for a general 
Thanksgiving for tho bfMiellts bestowed upon the people of America, 
out of which has grown the custom of declaring a holiday, or a series 
of holidays as in the eases ol! schools and colleges, during which time 
a general rejoicing occurs with football games occupying tho center 
of the stage; for, what is a bettor way than that ol celebrations to 
give thanks for bo noil to liberally bestowed V
From a point of vantage, it can bo soon that we of 0ARNMII3 
IMSCri have many things for which wo can* be thankful* First and 
foremost we are thankful that Andrew Carnegie lived and made this 
great school of ours possible and along this same line, wo are thank
ful for the broad-visioned viewpoint of the first group of trustees 
who were able to foresee the great possibilities of a technical school 
in the Pittsburgh district. Furthermore we are thankful that, after 
seeing these visions they had tho ability to make them real. As a 
result of it all wo are thankful that today CAHNEGTE TECH has 
outstripped its founders original ideas, and that prospects are good 
for future advances.
For all of this the City of Pittsburgh, as well as every state in 
the Union, is just as thankful.
So, the Carnegie Tartan beseeches all students of CARNEGIE 
TECII to remember in their celebrations over the holidays that they 
should give thanks for CARNEGIE TECH.
Not to forget the above, we are thankful for many other things, 
which should never be left out. For instance: our successful football 
season; the materialization of our new gymnasium; the improvements 
on our campus; our great school spirit; the firm establishment of 
traditions, and last but not least, the awakening of our alumni, who 
are gradually beginning to take an active interest in affairs at the 
school and on the campus.
So as we celebrate let us give full vent to our joys, for we of 
CARNEGIE TECH surely have full causo for a THANKSGIVING.
CAMPUS LIBRARY GETS 
LARGE GIFT OP BOOKS
Carnoglo Tocli is particularly forI,iniiito In being the recipient of a gift 
made by Mrs. .Tamos McDowoll 
daughtor of the Into John Brashoar, 
of tho major portion of tho library 
aaoumulitod by tho groat scientist 
and astronomer during his life. Tho 
books, numbering approximately 700 
volumes have boon placod in tho 
library of tho school for tho use of 
tlio students. Tho remaining por
tion, consisting of about 300 volumes 
on astronomical subjects, have boon 
donatod to l.lio Alloghony ObBorv 
atory.
Tho hooks presented to Carnegie 
Tocli inaludo many Important and 
authoritative works hy scientists, 
philosophers, onglnoorB, and thoologltuis. Among thoso are: Watson's
"Institutes," Butler's Anthology,1 
Wosloys "Sermons, Richard Wlmtoltiy/s "JAlom.cnts of Logic," Elijah H 
Uurritt's "Geography of tho Heavens/' 
Thomas Huxley's "Lay Sermons;*' 
"Addresses and Reviews," Electric 
TelegraphIts history and Progress 
hy likhvard Hlghton; "Astronomical 
Lectures" by John ICelll; complete 
works of Thomas Dick; Horldity 
by Thomas RIbot; Physics" by Al
fred M. Mayer; "The Construction of 
;ii Silvorod Glass Telescope by Dr 
Henry Draper, and many other books 
on scientific and mechanical subjects.
Truly, it Is a great pleasure to be 
in school at the time when Carnegie 
and tho Panther shake hands in the 
formation of a lasting friendship.
Volumes could be written on the 
advantages of such a friendship, 
hence we hope that the mutual ex
change of visitations will Continue 
to be evidence of the well-wishes of 
one school for the other.
Tho bonfire of last Wednesday 
proved to be successful to a greater 
degree than was expected. The large 
crowd which gathered was a source 
of gratification to Cy and his gang, 
In future years this stunt should be 
a corker in rousing . spirit for foot
ball games.
Again the Carnegie Batallion of the 
R. O. T. C. received a high honor 
Thursday morning, November 22, 
General Iiallar, commander-in-chief 
of the Armies of Poland, reviewed 
the entire Batallion In front of the 
Carnegie Museum.
It was like this: The Batallion
was rehearsing the march for Car
negie Day, and after completing the 
dress rehearsal was awaiting orders 
to return to the school. The General, 
and his train, who were leaving the 
Hotel Schenley happened to see the 
line of soldiers, and thinking they 
were there awaiting his review, 
changed his route, came over to the 
field, stopped his cardnd those of 
the trainand got out. About this 
time, the officers of the R. O. T. C, 
sensed something unusual, and called 
the Batallion to attention. The salute 
was rendered as the General ap
proached, and the General, with his 
aides, returned the salute. Cadet 
Major Knight, who is known for his 
able commanding of troops, was con
gratulated by the General, and thank
ed for the honor. The honor is 
all  ours, sir, replied Major Knight, 
saluting, resumed his post. The 
General and his aides then shook 
hands with the Military Staff of the 
Institute, and departed.
Such was the nature of a dress re
hearsal of the R. O. T. C.. It was 
said that the Carnegie soldiers arent 
pikers when it comes to getting hon
ors; Lloyd George, and General Hallar all within a month. Incidentally, 
the Carnegie Batallion is the only or
ganization of the R. O. T. C. to be 
reviewed by the General during his 
visit to America.
Space alone limits the amount of 
praise which our band of kilties de
serves, for it certainly appears as if 
Carnegie Tech will go unrivaled in 
this direction for a long time. In 
other words, the Kilty Band cant be 
beaten.
ASSEMBLY
In any institution, the size of our 
school, it is always difficult to keep 
faculty and students from forming 
two separate entities.
This would not be so bad, if there 
were not on both sides those, who 
make that condition the basis of the 
assumption, that the other side ia 
diametrically opposed and antag
onistic.
Not a few students have the no
tion that the professors regard their 
students in the same light as the 
French regarded  the Germans at 
Verdun, when the truly immortal 
phrase: II ne passeront pas, was
coined.
On the other hand, some faculty 
members feel that none of the stu
dents are really students, i. e., that 
they are not really and earnestly 
trying to acquire knowledge, but are 
here simply making an attempt to 
get something for nothing; an at
tempt *vhich the faculty is justly de
termined to frustrate.
When we say, "justly we suppose 
that the condition does exist, and let 
us admit that it does in some cases, 
but it hardly seems possible that the 
majority are that sort. Rather we 
believe that most of us are here to 
learn, rather than .to have a good 
time, although a glance at the social 
calendar occasionally makes one won
der.
Technical schools have never had 
the reputation of being set-ups. Many 
believe that Carnegie is slowly low
ering her requirements for a degree. 
We think we have the support of the 
student body, when we yell DONT. 
We want our trade-mark to mean 
something.
To get back to our subject, how
ever. Why should a minority among 
the professors and a similar minority 
among us, students, be permitted to
prevent the fostering of good fellow
ship among us?
At present the relations are fairr 
we might say, good; but they might 
be improved. For the Good of Car
negie, let us get together.
You remember that prof. you had 
in ethics in your Freshman year. 
Certainly, you remember him. You 
met him the other day in front of 
the library, but did you speak to him. 
Really, you couldnt be bothered. He 
treated you white, too. That E 
should nave been an F, and you 
know it.
What if next time you meet him, 
you should happen to say: "Good
morning, Professor." He might faint, 
but what of it? Dont you believe 
you w'ould feel better, at the same 
time knowing that you had done 
something For the Good of Carnegie?
We believe sc.
Remember, this does not mean 
that we are to join the army of hand-- 
shakers. It is just that same army 
that spoils the good relations which 
we wish to foster. Leave your pres
ent profs, alone, but there are many 
instructors on the campus, whom 
you have known at some time or 
other in your career. It will be for 
The Good of Carnegie, if you continue the friendship, but it will also 
be For the Good of Carnegie if both 
sides immediately squash any at
tempt of soft-soaping that may oc
cur within their own ranks.
Yours, For1 the Good of Carnegie.
Y Arranges Turkey Dinner!MUSICAL CLUBS STAGE
MARGARET MORRISON
In M. M. assembly last week, Miss 
Mary Breed gave a talk on the visit 
last summer to St. Peters and the 
Vatican at Rome. Through tho kind
ness of Bishop Hugh C. Boylo, Bishop 
of Pittsburgh, Miss Breed was able 
to gain an audience with His High
ness, Pope Pius XI, and foiund the 
ceremonies connected with this privi
lege very interesting and impressive.
Announcement was made of tho 
honor students of the Senior and 
Junior clnsses. These are in the or
der of their standing.
Seniors
Fayo Glass, Dorothy Chalmers, 
Doris Myers, Adah Borgerding, Helen 
Iilnchman, Mildred Abel.
Juniors
Anno Kinger, Margaret Allen, Anna 
Mao Clawson, Lura Golstwhlto, May 
Stuompflo, Genevieve Casey.
A quartet from the Mons Gloe 
Club sang tho Alma Mater for the 
benefit of the Plebes who are unfa
miliar with the*-new air and for tho 
upper classmen who have had dlfllculty with it.
Council Considers Plans 
For Publishing Song Book
A1 Johnson, chairman of the Song 
Book Committee, was present at the 
Student Council meeting last week 
to outline the proposition of publish
ing the book. The contents, style of 
binding and cost of the book were 
discussed at some length by the Coun
cil. Ellis Robertson, Arthur Brace, 
and Frances McClymonds were ap
pointed as a committee to draw* up a 
plan for financing and publishing the 
book. The committee will report at 
the next meeting. The Council is 
anxious to get the book published.
Treasurer Dykeman reported that 
ahe 1023 Campus Week Committee 
had turned over nine hundred and 
fifty-seven dollars to the Council 
Eleven hundred and fifty dollars were 
received from the school treasurer 
as part payment of day and night 
school activities fees.
For Carnegie Students
ARTS
Musical Clubs to Give
Dance December 7th
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27
Midwest Dinner Dance..............................6 P. M., Bird Cage Tea Room
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27 AND 28
Niels Bohr Lectures.............................8:30 1*. A!., 201) Science Building
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20
Thanksgiving Vacation Begins.................Classes Rosumo Doeombor
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7
Musical Club Dance............................................................0 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8
Carnegie Tocli Guild Carnival...........................Langley Lob and Union
Varsity Clan Banquet.............................1:00 I*. M., William Penn Hotel
FRIDAY, DECEMBER U
Freshman Dance ......................................................................All Carnegie
SATURDAY* DECEMBER 15
Junior Banquet................................................................. Schenley Hotol
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER IS)
Christmas Vacation Begins.............................Classes resume January 3
of by the preceding Wednesday. In 
order to avoid a last minute rush arid 
for tlio convenience of all concerned 
please buy your tickcts early.
500 TICKETS ARE
ALLOTTED TO STUDES
(Continued From Pace One.) 
largest Carnegie gathering ever as
sembled is iOlic. ted.
The dinner will be held in tho Wil
liam Penn Ballroom at 1:00 p. m. and 
in order to make proper arrangements 
most of the tickets should be disposed
By One Who Knows.
Is the Government sound?" asks i 
headline.
Yes, mostly, I should snv.
McGill Daily.
The Carnegie Musical Clubs have 
engaged the eight-piece first-string 
orchestra of the Collegiate Imps to 
play for a dance to be given by them 
on December 7 in the Union. In ad
dition to the entertainment assured 
by this aggregation of musicians, sev
eral members of the clubs will en
tertain by pulling off some novel 
stunts. To promote attendance at 
this dance, Manager Broudy has fix
ed the price of admission at $1.00 per 
couple, a price similar to that of 
last years dance.
The support of the student body 
is needed in order to make the affair 
a success.
A\ens Furnishing Store 
Opened at Craig Street
it. might interest tho male student 
body of Carnegie, to know that Davies 
and Hughes, Mens Furnishers, lmvo 
opened a branch store at. Forbes and 
Craig streets. It is under the direc
tion of Mr. Hughes, with a full stock 
of furnishings, ranging from collar 
buttons to suits made to order.
Tho addition of this storo at Forbes 
and Craig stroots, adds a groat deal to 
the convenience of mon attending Car
negie' Tech, especially those living in 
the dorms and fraternity houses near 
the college. It completes a well-bal
anced unit of supply for tho student. 
A fellow may now take a stroll down 
to the corner" (providing he has 
enough jack in his jeans) and fit 
himself perfect with anything from a 
face massage to a three-cent stamp. 
Plebes can even buy matches.
Regular assembly was hold last 
Tuesday in tho College of FIno Arts. 
Routine business was discussed and 
various announcements made. The 
complete Arts Ball committee was an
nounced, and a report made by sev
eral of tho chairmen.
A novel foature of entertainment 
was a reading by a young plebette on 
why she liked to talk to the men. In 
this essay she heartlessly assailed the 
character and reputation of the mem
bers of the Architectural Department 
with the xesult that she was recom
mended for the sink, in no uncertain 
terms.
To add insult to injury, the drama 
department was stated as containing 
the cream of the school, as it were.
A Plebe architect has been selected 
to prepare rebuttal to this speech, 
which is to be read at the next assem
bly.
CARNEGIE BATTERY STARTS
RIGHT IN ON ACTUAL WORK
The Headquarters Battery of the 
107th Field Artillery started off with 
a real bang. The men are getting in
to really interesting work in connec
tion with the use of the range finding 
instruments, scout work, map work 
and other things of interest not only 
to Engineering, Signal Qorps, and Mo
tor Transport men in the R. O. T. C. 
but of interest to every live man in 
the school.
Last Friday night drill started off 
with a snap nnd as a result the Col
onel of tho regiment complimented 
tho Hoiulquarters Battery. A big 
dance, to bo givon to tho battery mem
bers and their friends, will bo hold 
within the next, two wooks. Every
thing Is starting out In real fashion, 
if you are interested inquire at tho 
Military Dopartmont.
FOOTBALL ISSUE OF THE PUPPET 
TO BE BIGGER AND BETTER 
THAN EVER
Help Make Our Bulletin 
Boards Look Presentable
During the last year a great im
provement has taken place in the 
bulletin boards and in the general 
posting of tho campus. Recently, howover, tho posting rules have not been 
observed by several student organi
zations, especially with respect to 
over-size notices, and posting in un
authorized places. For this reason, 
and for the information of the new 
students, tho Tartan reprints below 
the posting regulations.
These requirements were drawn up 
by a joint faculty and student com
mittee. The Student Council jointly 
pay for the service of a student for 
tho upkeep of tho boards. As nothing 
makes the campus more unsightly 
than promiscuous posting, lets all 
play tho game according to the rulps.
1. No notices shall be placed on 
the bulletin boards except by the man 
in charge. He will call at the office 
of the Dean of Men daily at 12:30 for 
material left there for posting.
An exception to this rule is made 
where a notice concerns the students 
of one college only. These need not 
be delivered to the Deans Office, but 
can be posted on the one board con
cerned by the organization interested.
2. No notice shall be larger than 
12x16 inches.
3. Permission must be secured 
from the Dean of Men for posteis 
larger than 12x16, or for any posting 
on the campus other than on the reg
ular boards.
4. No notices, in any event, shall 
be tacked on trees, telephone poles, 
fences, or buildings.
5. In order to help make the 
boards presentable notices should be 
printed, whenever possible, or welllettered, and should be correct as to 
English.
ANNUAL CHRISTMAS
C. I. T. GUILD FETE
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
send it to Puppet. 'Should it be of 
such quality that Judgo can uso it, 
it may prove fairly remunerative, to 
say nothing of the prospects of wear
ing a Puppet key and indirectly boost
ing your Alma Mater. If you possess 
the true Carnegie Spirit, back the 
Puppet.
(Continued From Page One.) 
surprisehut the secret is not yet 
allowed to come out.
The following committees have 
been appointed: Decorations, Elea
nor Reismeyer, Dot Wever, Peg Wieland, Phoebe Henning; Music, Esther 
Johnston, Anna Mary McGrath; 
Stunts, Dot Chalmers, J. Perry, Bets 
Lindsay, Leah Rothman; Tree, Ruth 
Garbisch; Food, Jo Gibson; Tickets, 
Jo Soisson, Mary 1-Ioilig; Publicity, 
Sara Mao Everett.
Tho sale of tickets for the Christ
mas Carnival will be a four-scliool 
operationbut not in a painful sense, 
by any means. Tho Christmas Car
nival is something you wont want to 
miss.
Any Carnegie students who are 
staying over during Thanksgiving 
recess and who would like to have a 
real Thanksgiving dinner and real 
home-like atmosphere on Thanksgiv
ing day should see Mr. Davis at the 
Y office not later than Wednesday 
noon.
There are a number of kind-hearted 
families in Pittsburgh who have the 
interest of the students at heart and 
know just what it means to be blue 
on the day of thanks. These people, 
through the Y, are inviting any Car
negie students who are unable to 
spend the day with relatives or 
friends to come and make merry with 
them. So if you have been anticipat
ing a dull Thanksgiving and want a 
real welcome, a good dinner, and a 
good time in general, hustle over to 
the Y and turn in your name.
Great Progress Made 
In Safety Campaign
Committees Recommenda
tions Show Serious Effort
Last spring a safety committee 
from the Executive Boaid made a 
careful survey of everything which 
might in any way imperil the lives 
of tho faculty and the student body. 
As a result ol the committees re
port a great safety program is in 
progress. A large supply of fire ex
tinguishers have been purchased and 
a new heating system has just been 
installed In the girls dormitories; as
bestos booths for moving picture ma
chines, a sprinkler system for the 
Little Theatre, and various safeguards 
for machines and laboratories will 
be purchased in an effort to make 
safety a reality and not a byword.
This safety campaign can be made, 
a success only inasmuch as every 
student and member of the faculty 
takes it upon himself as a purely 
personal matter. Machines can stop 
damage after it has started, but in
dividual precaution can do away with 
every source of danger. Smoking in 
certain parts of the building in fla
grant violation of the roles is the 
most serious offense. The commit
tee believes that no punishment short 
of causing a student to leave school 
should be inflicted upon one who de
liberately continues to disregard his 
responsibility in the matter. Anyone 
noticing any fire hazards or other 
irregular conditions should report 
it to the committee at once. Every 
student should make himself a com
mittee of one in this matter both 
for his own good and safety, and for 
the good of Carnegie.
ANNUAL STUNT SMOKER
As has been the yearly custom, 
the Carnegie Musical Clubs held their 
annual smoker in the Union last Sat
urday. The purpose of the smoker 
was to promote fellowship in the 
clubs and to give men who wished 
to perform at the concert to be given 
this year a chance to stage their en
tertainment. Several novel and en
tertaining stunts were thus brought 
to light.
Members Plarris ana Daniels stag
ed a novel comedy. P. Rice render
ed a lively jig; Mitchell and Alecliin 
sang a I-Iawawaian duet and Alecliin 
then gave a solo on the Russian 
Balalaka which figuratively brought, 
the house down. Manager Broudy 
played a solo on a saw, with great 
success.
The entertainers for the coming 
season will be selected largely from 
these men, according to the merit 
of their particular stunts.
M. T. C. TO PROVIDE BATTERY 
SERVICE AND AIR FREE NOW
The R. O. T. C. Motor Transport 
laboratory has installed an air hoso 
where air can be supplied at all 
times for automobile tires. Tho hose 
can be found outside the laboratory.
Batteries will be also charged for 
anyone connected with the school; 
students or faculty. However, there 
are no batteries on hand for loan 
while yours is being charged.
There is no charge for this service 
and all that is necessary is to tele
phone the shop before you take the 
battery in.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS.
GRAPHICA CONTINUES
SUCCESSFUL CAMPAIGN
MAGGIE MURPH MASKS
AS FREE LANCE
(Continued From Page One.) 
large gi;een celluloid frogs. It is 
certain that these symbols embrace, 
to a great degree, the charms of their 
wearers as well as giving to those on 
the Campus an idea of who the sci
entific people really are.
(Continued From Page One.) 
dollar ready when you order your 
cards. Half a dollar now and half a 
dollar when the cards are ready will 
enable you to get your cards. The 
folders are selling for a dollar and a 
quarter, and the quarter more is insignificent compared to the greater 
value in the folder type of greeting. 
Grapliica card salesmen can be found 
anywhere on the campus and every-1 
one will be approached before the 
campaign is over, but if youre not, 
drop in the Printing Department, 122 
Industries and give us your order. 
Come in anyway and see how tho 
cards are printed.
C. A. HEIMERTS
The Students Store
The Better Shop for 
MEN
Your first thought Classy Hats, 
Caps and Haberdashery at Mod
erate Prices.
At
HEIMERTS
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
I

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
BASKETBALL NOW BOHRR LECTU S'D'AU
TAKES SPOTLIGHT
Squad Expected to Increase 
| as Football Season Comes  
to Close
With a successful foo.tlball season 
just finished, everyone is looking fori -ward to basket ball. Practice began 
about three weeks ago, and the bas
ket tossers of Carnegie Tech have 
been busy every Monday and Thurs
day afternoon getting into condition.
There is a wealth of material on 
the camp'us, but all the men are not 
showing up for practice, and whether 
it is because they are waiting for 
football1 season to end .or for some 
Other reason, it is Ul'god tliat tllQy 
come out at once. The football men 
are already ih. good physical shape, 
and thd others who expect to try for 
tho Varsity basket ball teaim must get 
out early in order to compete with 
these athletes.
Coach Lubic is intending to carry 
from ittwenty to ,fcwenb}viive men On 
the squad this year, and as many of 
last years varsity men are out of 
school or ineligible, many men that 
have played on fraternity or other 
teams have a good chance of making 
the squad. The varsity should be up
permost in the consideration of the 
student body, and it Is each man's 
diufoyi to support his college if he has 
any ability on the floor.
The present practice has been only 
preliminary to stiffer practice in De
cember. The squad at) present num
bers aibout 20 men, many of the oh! 
standbys and. several new men being 
out. The squad is expected to double, 
now that football season is over, for 
many of the gridders are also stars 
on the court.
Among the men now out who are 
showing up well are t'he following: 
Scliwaib, Widom, D. C. Jones. Dosey,
IN FALL TOURNAMENT
In spite of the cold drizzles char
acteristic of Pittsburgh fall -weather, 
the Plaid tennis tournament partici
pants managed to play off the match
es of the various rounds. As lias 
been quite typical of past tourna
ments, the present tournament con
sisted for the most part of very close 
matches.
The final matches were played off 
on Armistice Day between C. E. Pratt 
and Ted Moessner, Pratt winning by 
the score of 6-4, 9-7, 6-4. The match
es were very close and hard fought, 
as is evidenced by some of the 
scores. This would indicate that 
Carnegie has some fine material for 
Varsity team of next spring.
EIGHT SCIENCE MEN
SELECTED BY TAU BETA PI
(Continued From Pg One) 
College o Engineering, introduced the 
speaker of the occasion, Robert J. An
derson, himself a Tau Beta Pi man, 
explained the relation of .the fratern
ity to the school and its requirements 
for membership. Then, taking Ro
mance in Science for his topic, ho 
briefly addressed the candidates in 
regard to their chosen careers.
Other speakers were Prof. McCul
lough, head of the Department of Civil 
Engineering and Prof. Trinks, head of 
the Department of Mechanical Engi
neering. Prof. Trinks few remarks 
were greatly enjoyed by the audience.
The Alma Mater, sung to the new 
tune, was rendered by a quartet from 
the Glee Club, and then the entire as
sembly sang it.
D. A. CASEY TAKES 
COUNCIL VACANCY
Succeeds Buddy Overend as 
Varsity Clan Rep. on 
Athletic Body
Ivoppes, Sullivan, Bittner, Cook, Lapore, Burns, H.. R. Jones, Irwin, 
Brooks, Ward, Hairris,' Reed, Amaiis, 
Parker, -Hartwell, Cooizit, Smith, 
West.
Jimmy Anderson oi) football fame, 
is captain of the team, and Sam Bitt
ner is student manager.
Clarence Overend, now Graduate 
Manager of Athletics, has resigned 
from the Athletic Council, and D. A. 
Casey has been appointed by H. G. 
Nichol, Jr., as Mr. Overends suc
cessor on the Council as Varsity Clan 
representative.
The resignation of Buddy was ac
cepted at the last meeting of the 
Athletic Council and the appoint
ment^ Mr. Casey as his successor 
has been made during the past Aveek 
by Nichol, who is president of the 
Varsity Clan.
Lst th rader be confused by the 
term resignation, we hasten to ex
plain tliat it is in accordanco with 
the Constitution and By-Laws of the 
. Council thet the Graduate Manager 
I shall not hold a voting position on 
tho Athletic Council. Buddy is now 
Graduate Manager, and therefore, 
must relinquish his seat on the said 
body. He does, however, attend all 
meetings, and to let out a little se
cret, probably does most of the talk! Jng.
Messrs. Overend and Casey have j 
been two Varsity Clan representa
tives on the Council. Now the lat
ter gentleman moves into the place 
of the former by order of H. G. 
Nichol, and a new member of the 
Council will have to bo elected from 
the Varsity Clan to assume tho chair 
vacated by Casey.
This matter will be attended to at 
the earliest convenient date. The 
present officers of tho Athletic Coun
cil are: J. T. Laboon, president;
Buddy Overend, secretary; vice pres
ident to be elected at next meeting 
of Council.
.
BETTY HAAREN
they could do no more. They can 
hold their heads up in the knowledge 
that they lost to a powerful combina
tion; one which crushed the Army, 
Princeton, and Georgia Tech on suc
cessive Saturdays; and say Well, 
Irish, you licked us, but if youro 
Fighting Irish, then were Fighting
j Scotch, for we fought just as hard us
you did.
And after all, as the poet says:
It isnt the fact that you lost, that 
counts,
But how did you play the game? 
The lineup:
Notre Dame26.
L. E........................Citowo
L. T..........................Bach
L. G.
C.
R. G.
CARNEGIE GOES DOWN
FIGHTING WONDER TEAM
FROM NOTRE DAME
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMBNS WEARj
Oh, what a dark room!
"Well, heres where things develop. 
Juggler.
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
DRESS SUITS TO RENT
OUR AIM is to RENT tho best dress Bxuts 
possible at a reasonable rate.
Our strictly hand tailored suits cut and designed 
by us assures you of absolute correctness. Every
thing from head to foot for rent.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT COMPANY
6002-3-4 Jenkins Arcade
Smithfield 0341
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Hours: 8:305:30
DO GOTO THE
| Tech Barber Shop j
11 FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS
Five Barbers at your service.
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CKAIG
c!MS/3M3M3/i?MSMSMS/SfSM2MSfcMS
(Continued From Page One.) 
same little band of Carnegie men had 
to contend with an inexhaustible sup
ply of fresh players whom Rockno 
rushed in in a perfect stream. Against 
any ono team, we would liavo had a 
chance; against tho three of them, wo 
had none.
The Notre Dame team was a reve
lation. Every man who came in was 
as good as tho man whom ho replaced. 
Their interference was perfect, tliolr 
running was brilliant, and tliolr pass
ing and formations were bewildering. 
In aildltion, they played a clean, hard 
game. There were no petty squabblings with the referee; they took 
their penalties and gains alike, uncon
cerned. They used no foul tactics. 
And wo can say the same for tho Car
negie mon. They played tho game, 
they took tho breaks as they came; 
and they lost. There are no alibis. 
The game was a pretty examplo of 
football as It should bo played, hard 
fought, clean, and precise. Wo hopo 
tho Irish como back next year.
Let us say a word of tho mon who 
played their last game in tho Crim
son uniform. Jimmy, Cliot Brum
baugh, Cy Comfort, Dutch 7,olt, and 
Reliablo. Jimmy Anderson; played a 
wonderful game last Saturday. They 
gave thoir best for Carnoglo Toch
Tech0.
Hable................
Zelt....................
Comfort........... L. G.............Brown (C.)
Taylor.................. C.......................Reagan
Gilbert................ R. G...................Vergera
Yoder................ It. T..................E. Miller
Mefort................ R. E..............Hunsingor
Robertson (C.). Q. B............Stunldronor
Bastlan....... L. I-I.................Bergman
J. Anderson..., R. I-I......................Mahor
Brumbaugh------ F. B.....................Laydon
Score by periods:
Notre Dame ...........<....7 7 6 626
TouchdownsXiayfleri, Connell 2,
Maher.
Point after touchdown (by drop
kick)Crowley 2.
SubstitutionsFor Notro Dame, 
Walsh for Roagan, Collins for Crowe, 
Mayl for Hunsingor, Connell for Ma
her, Crowloy for Borgman, Ivin or for 
Vorgera, I-Iauser for Crowloy, Cornoy 
for Layden, Woibol for Brown, Oborst 
for Miller, Roagan for Walsh, Crowlojr 
for Hauser, Laydon for Cornoy, Woobol for Brown, Walsh for Roagan, 
Crowo for Collins, Borgman for Growley, Murphy for Malil, Mahor for Con
nell, Vorgera for Kisser, Rooso for 
Stuhldrehor, Nopponborgqv for Baoh, 
Enright for Laydon, Gluekort for Woi
bol, Eaton for Crowo. For Toch, RNNEA 
for Yoder, P. Anderson for Cnss, GoodWin for Hablo, I-Iablo for Goodwin, 
Krlstoff for Mefort, Pittman for Bas
tlan, Goodwin for Krlstoff.
OfllclalsRoforoo, Dox Vory, Ponn 
State; umpire, Dan Dougherty, WashJoff; linesman, II. J. Blum, Iron City.
An old fashioned lady writes in to 
ask, What Is a stadium?"
A stadium, Madam, is a largo footI ball field, with a unlvorslly attached.
MAGGIE MURPH MASKS 
AS FREE LANCE TAKES HER 
FRIEND TO FOOTBALL DANCE
(Continued From Pago One) 
neither has as yet received the covet
ed -bid. A further idea is that each 
would rather like to bo in attendance 
when the orchestra leader picks up 
his baton and puts his llask in his 
pocket. The argument seems to be 
whether to advertise for male help or 
to assert tho initiative so rampant in 
tho female mind.
Now the plot: They are both deter
mined to go. Going without a man is 
like sending yourself flowers. Ob
viously there will lmvo to be a man 
in tho crowd. Obviously thoro won't 
bo one of his own free will. Hence 
ono of the girls will have to bo a man.. 
Simple, easy, and conclusive, eh, Wat
son? So ono of tho duo masquerades 
as a man by wearing an old pair of 
shoes and a loud tlo, and everything 
is settled. From what wo can hear 
they both enjoyed the dance immense
ly and inasmuch as they enjoy talk
ing to intelligent peopleand they 
talked to thomsolvos all evening 
they should liavo.
That the event actually happened is 
oasily proven. When tho, er, gontloman stopped up to puroluiBo tho ad
mission check ho looked nonplussed 
for a second and then drew Ills pe
cuniary cortlflciUos from uowhoro in 
particular. Wo blush, but its so and 
tho ticket taker can vorlfy iliot statomont if ho dares do so. Tho now 
opoch has appoarodlot nature, tako 
Its course.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.........................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
WEDNESDAY WILL BE LAST
DAY FOR THISTLE PICTURES
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
tlio office to receive proofs until fur
ther notlco.
PIcturos of tho various organiza
tions on tlio Campus will ho takon 
within tho next two weeks. Repre
sentatives of thoso groups should got 
In touch with tho photographer at 
once to arrange a suitable tlmo.
try th BEST.
Como te tho
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 80UTH CRAIG STREET
FOOTBALL STARS GUESTS
AT THE JUNIOR BANQUET
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
tel Schenley on December 15, and the 
cost will be !?2.50 per plate. Tickets 
will be on sale on the Campus to-day. 
Tags will be given with tho tickets, 
so all Juniors who have bought their 
tickets will be easily distinguishable.
Prof. I-I. S. 1-Iower, of tho Physics 
Department, College of Engineering, 
will act as toastmaster. Programs 
and menus are being printed by the 
Singer Pen and Gift Co.
Remember juniors, save your pen* 
uies and get your ticket when they 
como out. There is only one Junior 
banquet.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL WILL
HAVE EXCELLENT ARTICLES
(Continuod Froin Pago One.) 
any operatlons Involvlng cliomical 
changos.
Wlt.li articles ol thls caliber, tho 
Tochnlcal Journal comparos favorably with any professlonal trado por.lodical, oxcopt. ojt eourso, in tho quantlty or advortining.
Certainly!Every student needs a 
reliable Safoty Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. Wo sell and repair. Singer 
Pon and Gift Shop, Jonlclns Arcado.
OUR MISTAKE
Shortly after the last Issuo of this scintillating vehicle of truth, wo woro 
approached by various and sundry individuals who took oxceptlon to the 
statement that Welch I-Iall was to bo glvon crodlt for the show of spirit 
which prompted the inmatos to put up signs before all tho football games. 
We beg to state that tills column was In error and that It was Scoboll Hall 
that was the recipient of tho above mentioned docoratlons. Tho wrllor re
grets tho error and hopes that the mistake may bo rectified by this moans.
THANKS, PITT
Our friends across the way appreciated our help and good wishes in 
their recent victory to such an extent that they rooted heartily for us to boat 
Notro Dame. We didnt win. But we appreciate tho spirit of tho Panther, 
and say to its followers, BEAT PENN STATE.
OIXON5 ~
ANULCHRI
f/ic master (Invp/nQpendt
THE IRISH AND THE SCOTCH
In their recent little settlement of tho annual argument about football 
supremacy, the Irish evidently had the Indian sign on .the Scotch, and proved 
to the football followers of this community that Notre Dame has the most 
perfect team in the country today. Never has such a smooth-working com
bination of gridders performed on Forbes Field. The co-ordination with 
which Roclcnes men played is the more remarkable when the fact is taken 
into consideration that the Indiana school was represented by thirty some 
men, most of whom got a chance to show their wares at some stage of the 
battle. At times, as many as three or four men would come out of the Notre 
Dame line and when the vacancies had been filled by others from the bench, 
the team worked with the same splendid co-ordination as before. This 
abundance of material, one unit of which is nearly as good as any other 
unit, seems to be the secret of Knute Rocknes success with the westerners.
Where does he get all the material? A natural question. One source 
of football talent at the Blue and Gold school is the development of all that 
is at hand to the greatest possible degree of excellence. Football at Notre 
Dame is not merely a varsity sport. The student body eats, talks and sleeps 
football. They have organized all sorts of teams, and nearly every student 
in the University is playing on some class or society team. All available 
talent is thus brought to light.
There is also a prep school in connection with the University, and much 
good material is inherited, so to speak. But the dominant feature is Knute 
Rockne himself. An alumnus of the Catholic institution, he has gone back 
to his Alma Mater to advance her football fame, and his success is the chief 
topic of football enthusiasts from coast to coast. And this success is not a 
flash, is not built on flimsy supports, which might crumble and collapse in 
the face of some great trial.
Mr. Rockne has gathered about him a group of men whom he has trained 
to be gentlemen as well as fighters. We have never seen a cleaner team 
than that which vanquished the Tartans last Saturday. The story Is cited 
of a player whom Rockne banished from the team for getting into an argu
ment on the field with an opposing player. The coach would listen to no 
appeals until the opposing player involved in the scrap, hearing of the inci
dent sought out Rockne and explained that the argument was entirely his 
own fault.
The greatness of a team built on the principles which Knute Rockne 
holds, to is bound to endure,
As to our own hoys, they gave their best, and fought the advance of tho 
Irish all the way through. They lost tho game, but not the respect of tliolr 
admirers, and the student body unites In honoring them for their, courage, 
Notre Dame knew she had been in a football game when dunk spread his 
wings over Pittsburgh last Saturday.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ton yonru oxporlonoo.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1H80. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Joo. P. Flaher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
A DISTINCT ABVAmSE
To wise young persons con
scientious advice and sugges
tions from men long experi
enced In financial affairs often 
prove Invaluable.
This Is one way In which 
thrifty young men and women 
depositors profit through their 
dealings with the Mellon Na
tional Bank.
Our officers take personal pride 
In promoting the financial wel
fare of our customers.
SPECIAL THANKSGIVING DINNER$1.50 PER COVER
The Tartan Banquet Hall 60E25
12:30 TILL 9 P. M.
MUSIC
Unsurpassed 
Menu
For Rservations Call lilland 9251.
berty 
THURSDAY 
NOVEMBER 29, 1923
American
Chef
J. H. ADAMSON, Manager.
AFTER-THOUGHTS OF THE 8EA80N
Five varsity first-string men graduate this year: Robertson, whoso last 
game was probably tho greatest of his career; Anderson, strategist do luxe; 
Brumbaugh, u cons atont offensive star; Zelt, a mountain on the defense, and 
Comfort, the lad wth the educutod too, are the mon who leavo us this yoar. 
The success of the 1924 team will depend largely upon tlio men who step 
into the vacancies created by those men.
Spirit and student cheering has been at high point all during the football 
season. Let that spirit not die now. Basket ball season is coming. We must 
support Coach Lubic and Ills cage artists. COME ON, CARNEGIE, LET'S 
GO!
HOCKEY
We hear from reliable sources that the chances for a hockey team are I 
extremely bright. More about that later.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan SquareEast Liberty
PLAID ATHLETICS
HOW THE IRISH DOWNED THE SCOTCH IN FINAL GAME OF THE SEASON
THE CARNEGIE MASCOT

---------------------------------------------------

:
PAGE FOUR_____________________________________________________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN___________________________________________________________________________________________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1923
0ALUMNIPAG 
00
CLAN NEWS
CONNECTICUT CLAN
The next mooting o tho Connect
icut Clan will ho hold Saturday, De
comber 1, at 8:00 P. M., In the Hotel 
Bond, Hartford. The dinner, .which hi 
to ho held In tho Salon ile Damjo of the 
Bond, will ho followed hy a abort 
mooting and an opportunity to dlCUBB mattoni of IntorpBt to Carnegie 
pooplo. After tho mooting, a dance 
will hold full Bway. Tlilu hi tlio AGID 
ond fall meeting of the Connecticut 
Chin. The first ono, held In Now 
Huven, was a EYIIGAAB hut wan wholly 
of a business nature. A few Import
uni, Item will he discussed at this 
meeting alno, hut moBt of the evening 
will he taken up with dancing and 
general entertainment.
A number of Margaret Morrison 
girla living In the vicinity of'SpringHeld have already signified tliolr In
tention of coming, but dont tlilnlc, 
, for till reason, that you must como 
"stag" to tlilB party, ior you aro cor
dially invited and urged to make res
ervations for your wife or "tho girl. 
If you don't want to bring anyone, 
copio along, you will bo just as wel
come.
The committee is anxious to de
termine approximately tho number 
that will bo thero and requoBt every
one expecting to come to tho party to 
end roBorvatlonB to II. W. Arnold, 
358 Sigourney St,, Hartford, Conn.
The assessment CA $4.50 per person.
Tho member of tho committee In 
charge aro: G. R. Holme, C. ID. Rutli, erfonl, J. Gelman and R. W. Arnold.
BALTIMORE CLAN
At a mooting, on Novombor 7, of 
former students and alumni of tho 
Carnogle Institute of Technology, a 
Carnegie Clan was organl/.od In Bal
timore, Maryland. Tlio following ofllcors were elected:
A. W. Crownovor, Prosldont; G. S. 
Diehl, Vico President; P. II. Dickey, 
Socrotary-Troasnror.
It was decided that mootings will 
be held on. the llrst Wednes
day ol each month and it wan 
suggosted that an Invitation bo 
sonl: to the Washington Chin,
Inviting them to a mooting In tho near 
future, Each Wednesday, all mom(bars aro Invited to take luncheon at 
tho lilnglnnors Club.
The following Carnogle mon and 
women were prosont at tho organizeAlumni Will Decide 
Requisites for Button
Essentials for Purchasers 
Must be Determined
An stated In the Carnnglo Tartan 
a ooupln of weeks ago, the Alumni 
Oil)oe In Pittsburgh has started a 
contest for the design el' a distinct
ive recognition button, The designs 
have come slowly, but several good 
Ideas have been submitted and If any 
alumnus or alumna has an Idea on 
tint subject, It should he submitted 
lo the <-ommltl.ee. vffithor or noi 
a finished drawing accompanies tho 
MUggostlon In not so Important.
The point to he brought out, how
ever, In this: that wo are going to 
have a recognition button, what do 
tho alumni tlilnlc el' the matter?
if the button Is l.o he of any value 
to its wearer, there must be a cer
tain requirement L'or Its purchase 
other than Just the necessary money, 
The question Is what shall such re
quirements be.
'Shall all upper classmen bo per
mitted to wear them or shall a doDO YOU REMEMBERLUNCHEON INSTEAD ! 
OF USUAL BANQUET
tlon mooting: Messrs. Pearson, GrJob, 
Crownovor Diehl and Dickey, and the 
Misses Carr and Dottorway, Mr, Por-I 
torileld, who, had attended several 
mooting before the clan was organ
ized, was unable to be prosont.
Mr. Dickey's address is 1501 Lex
ington Bldg., Orenda Coal Company,' 
Baltimore, Maryland.
The next meeting will bo hold on 
December 5.
HARRI8BURG CLAN
The members of the Harrisburg 
Clan wore entertained at tho homo 
of Mr, and Mrs. J. Ritchie Lawrlo, of 
110 Shamokln street, on Saturday 
evening, November 17.
Following a brief business meeting, 
tho members accompanied by their 
wives, wore entertained by music and 
games. Miss Louli Kennody rend
ered a number of beautiful vocal se
lections accompanied by Mrs, C. Val
entine Kirby and Mrs. J. Rlohio Law
rlo.
Those present wore: Mr. and Mrs. 
M. Edwin Green, Mr. and Mrs. Bushong, Mr. and Mrs, C. Valentino Kir
by, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Highborger, 
Mr. and Mrs. ,T. Ritchie Lawrie, Mr. 
and Mrs, Gerald D. Whitney, John 
Todd, Miss Murguorlte Stuckor, Mr. 
Minnicli, Miss Ledli Kennedy, Mr. 
and Mrs. Henry Y. S'haub.
NEW YORK CLAN
Yoengs Restaurant, Broadway at 
48 th street, Wednesday, December 
5th, 0:80 p. m.
The above Is tho place, date and 
time of tho next Now York Clan moot
ing. Inclement weather and non-publlclty of tho last meeting held the attendanco down but those who turned 
out for tho Newark affair on October 
lOtli had a good dinner and a lino 
evening of dancing and entertainment. 
Wo cant control the weather, but 
heros tho publicity, so therell be no 
oxcuso for not attending December 
5th. There aro many now prospect
ive members In tho Now York district 
and well bo glad to soe you.
Somo who would othorwlso turn 
out may not receive the Tartan, so 
you who read tills pick up a phono 
and spread tho good word around. 
'Phoros a good iloor at Yoong's, good 
music, good food, and youll ronew a 
lot of old acquaintancesall at tho 
small cost of a dinner. S'oo you at 
Yoongs, Docomhor 5? 'Sure thing.
groo bo nOeossary? If so what sort 
of modification would you suggost 
for undergraduates?
You remember how embarrassed 
you wore that timo you wont to tho 
show and saw another follow that 
you thought you knew, hut did not 
say hello to bociiiuso you wore un 
certain, Surely you wished for a 
button ol! some sort then. jNinv, 
when the button Is l.o become a re
ality, you are getting a, chance to 
aid In the design or al. least volco 
your views on the subject. Tho 
Alumni Olllce will be glad l.o lmvo 
you send them In for serious con
siderai Ion,
After a, piolonged lllness of a monili, 
due to a sorlouH Infootlon of th eyo. 
Miss Clralghond, secrotury to Miss 
ltrood, han returned to ber desk.
MISS BREED 8PEAKS TO
THE SECRETARIAL CLUB
(CJoiiii)lnuod l.i'rom lago One.) 
tary boforo and after helng lnooulated 
at Carnoglo, waa glven by tho .Iun
ior membors ol! th club.
A stunt by th Sophomoro ocretarlals and musiti by tho Dl/.v.y 
laiglit," a Junior orchestra oomplotod 
th program,
:
MANY men at college have such definite ideas about their clothes that the smallest detail out of harmony with propriety condemns the suit.
Dunshire Clothes have been designed to meet their requirements. Each minute detail of cut, every fabric pattern coincides precisely with their established -standards of conservative good taste in apparel.
A Dunshire suit is a distinctive type among college 
men j iis high vest; soft, rolling lapels and easy, 
Jinghsh drape are always correct.
We will bo glad to show you these distinctive 
clothes. You know t/ie suit!
Sole Distributor in Pittsburgh and Vicinity.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
SMITHF1ELD STREET AND SEVENTH AVENUE
Way back In 1000,
Billy Hlttner wus named as half
back on tho all-Pennsylvania eleven.
Billy, Babe Robinson, and Shorty 
Flick were tho stars of those days of 
real sport;
In 1014
Shortly after tho Pitt game, which 
Pitt was lucky to win through a cou
ple of breaks and a 75-yard run, about 
50 Carnogle men had tho olllclal goat 
out for a walk and parade in Oakland.
Somo Pitt mon tried to get Car
negie's goat with the usual result. 
Ono of tho cops mude. a Hying 
tackle In an attempt to catch Billy, 
no, not Hlttner, but Goat. Unfortu
nately ho missed, taking a nosedive 
over tho embankment into the rail
road cut helow. He miraculously es
caped with a few minor bruises.
LOCAI. A. A. U. P. BEGINS 
SECOND SEASON HERE
The local chapter of tho American 
Association of University Professors 
is again active and organized for the 
year 1923-24. Two meetings have 
been held and chief among the plans 
to be carried out is the Inauguration 
of a membership campaign in the near 
future.
The membership of the association 
Includes at present 47 members from 
the teaching staff of Carnegie, though 
it has been organized only since 
March, 1022; At the first meeting on 
October 2, 1023, Prof. N. C. Riggs was 
elected president to succeed Dr. Char
ters, who was lately transferred to 
the -University of .Pittsburgh. Prof. 
N. C. Riggs and Prof, H. L. Moore 
were elected as delegates to the Na
tional Convention at Columbus, Ohio.
Two very interesting papers "were 
read at tho last meeting by rof. Max 
Sclioen and Dr. Agnes Byrnes, both 
of which, brought forth considerable 
discussion. Dr. Alexander gave a brief 
review of the October Bulletin. At 
tho next meeting it is planned to dis
cuss the intellectual standards of un
dergraduates and methods of 'raising 
them.
NOTICE
Tho Insignia for last year have been 
received and will bo delivered to the 
following membors of last years Stu
dent Activities Board providing they 
send In tln*ir addresses: J. T. Ames, 
I-Iolon McCrum, A1 Reid, 13. C. SOTPLB 
G. B. Bennett.
Football and Cross-Country 
Squads to be Feted at 
Wm. Penn Hotel
Instead of the usual Varsity Clan 
Banquet a joint luncheon held In con
junction with, and under the auspices 
of, tlio Pittsburgh Clan, will be given 
this year in honor of Carnegies foot
ball and cross country teams. This 
plan will make for a larger, more 
elaborate, and far more interesting 
affair than has been held in any pre
vious yearfor the Alumni are back
ing the plan whole heartedly and 
have promised a* record turnout.
A very fine program is being drawn 
up and will include music under the 
direction of Prof. J. Vick O'Brien, 
music and entertainment by a pop
ular dance orchestra, and introduc
tions of the members of the football 
teams, aB well as special features 
which will be announced later.
The guest'list will include repre
sentatives of the Board of Trustees, 
the City Council, the Carnegie Corpo
ration, the Carnegie Hero Fund, the 
University of Pittsburgh, the County 
and Federal Courts, the Mayor and 
his Cabinet, the Board of Education, 
the Student and Athletic Councils, 
the administration and faculty and 
the various advisory boards. A new 
feature will be the presence of rep
resentatives of the alumni associa
tion of twenty-five or thirty different 
universities and colleges.
The affair will this year be held in 
the ball room of the William Penn 
Hotel, since that is the most suita
ble for a luncheon so large. The 
fun will start promptly at 1:00 P. M., 
on Saturday, December 8note the 
date and time carefully, please!
Tickets will be $2.00 and may be 
obtained from the Alumni office or 
from various alumni who have been 
delegated as ticket sellers by the 
president of the Pittsburgh Clan, Mr. 
M. R. Walton.
Please buy your tickets early, for 
a ropitition of last years rush and 
confusion at the alumni luncheon 
would be unpleasant. Though the 
possibilities for an overflow crowd 
in such a largo room are not great, 
the committee In charge must know 
by Wednesday preceeding the lunch
eon, how many will attend so that 
the hotel guarantee may be made 
without the risk of loss to tho com
mittee.
Is tills not. a reasonable request to 
mnko of you, Alumni?
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRON-Secretary, A. C. Sprague, 11. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
JKTIWALOSecretary, Robert Porter, 876 Hertel Avenue.^
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, care E. Vernon Hill Co., 64 West 
Randolph Street.
CINCINNATI<1. \\r. Batman, Secretary, care Johns-Manville Com
pany, 654 Main Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Limdcen, 12722 Barrington Ave
nue; Womens Clan, Secretary, Mildred Lawrence, 2241 Cum 
mington Road.
CONNECTICUT CLANSocrotary-TreaRurcr, G. R. Holmes, R. MeLogan Foundry Company, Now Haven.
DAYTONG, L. I'jon^, Secrotnry-Trcasurcr, 301 Grafton Avenue
DETROIT -W. Ray Williams, President, care Westinghonse Electric 
& Manufacturing Company, 1535 Sixth Street, Detroit, Mich.
I'lLLWOOD CITY-Acting Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
UJRII'j....Edwin Gross, Secrotary-Treasuror, care Hammermill Paper
Company, Erie, Pa.
MARRISBIJRG CLAN-President, Mr. Ed. Green; Vice President, 
Mr. J Junes Rudisill; Secretary, Mr. John Todd; Treasurer,, Mr. 
Frank Highljergor.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second Street, E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner Street.
LOS ANGELESSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Mareeau, 202 Slienango St.
NEAV YORKSecretary, E. M. Gretzler, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, Thomas M. McDonald, Carnegie Institute 
oi! Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Bou
levard; Womens Clan Secretary, Miss Edice Reider, Rajren 
School, Ohio and Benita Avenues.
YOUNGSTOWN WOMENSFlorence A. Flinn, Recording Secre
tary, 467 Lorain Street, Sharon, Pa.
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia630 Clyde ........................................................
Alpha Tau Omega25-1 Bellefield...........................
Beta Sigma Rho1146 Wightnian......................
Beta Thetn Pi55*10 Forbes.....................................
Delta Tau Delta1002 Forbes..................................
Delta Upsilon5224 Liberty...........................
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde...........................................
PI Kappa AlphaIS07 Baum.............................*...
Sigma Alpha IflpsUon4015 Forhos......................
Sigma Nu1021 Forbes...............................................
Thota XI5017 Forbos....................................
...Schenley 91S0 
...Schenley 9102 
...Schenley 9376
...........Hazel 3320
...Schenley 9231
.........Hlland 085S
...Schenley 9401 
...Schonley 92S5 
...Schonley 9211 
...Schonley 0659 
...Schenloy 9143
Local Fraternities.
Delta Chi Rho.................................................................
Delta Mu5574 Aylosboro......................................
Delta Phi Delta156 North Craig.......................
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins...........................
Kappa Sigma Rho14-1 Ambers on.......................
Sigma Epsilon Pill5812 Bartlett..................
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes................................
.Solionloy 0877-R
............Hassol 93-15
.. .Sclionloy 4400
...........Hotel 9356
...Sclionloy 9017
...........Hazol 939S
...........Hazel 9-122
DeanWhere were you yesterday?
Ignorant Young ThingAt a fu
neral, sir.
DeanYou menu a baseball game, 
dont you?
I. Y. T.Call it wliat you like; I 
saw the Giants bury tlie Reds  j on. 
Bear Cat. 1
That:
The M. M. Science Club had initia
tion last week.
Frank Lanahan gave a dinner to 
the football squad.
Tau Beta Pi selected eight Seniors 
tho other day.
The M. M. Gulid is giving a Christ
mas party.
The Y. M. C. A. is giving a dinner 
to all students remaining in town-.
John Brasliears books have been 
given to the Library.
The Tennis Tournament lias been 
completed.
Buddy Overend is working on the 
1924 football.schedule.
The Puppet will be out Thursday.
General Hallar inspected the R. O. 
T. C. by accident.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
GRADUATES TO ORGANIZE
Dr. J. I-I. James gave a short talk 
to the Chemical Engineers who at
tended the dinner in the. Commons 
Saturday, November 17th. The meet
ing marked the first reunion of the 
Chemical Engineering graduates of 21 
and 22. Dr. James said that it would 
be fine if all the Chemical Engineers 
graduating from Carnegie could be 
included. This suggestion was ap
proved and a temporary chairman was 
elected. The next meeting -will be 
held some time in February. Watch 
the Tartan for the announcement.
At that time a permanent organiza
tion of all Chemical Engineering grad
uates will be formed. The organiza
tion plans to meet for dinner in the 
Commons about once every three 
months. The Priestly Club at the 
University of Pennsylvania is a simi
lar organization.
The following men .were present at 
the dinner: Seebacli, Chernoff, Mey
ers, Abel, Marc, Ortmillef, Sayer, 
Nicholson, Rinehart, Catlow and Zim
merman. Dr. James, Prof. Stevens 
and Mr. Turnoclc represented the fac-. 
ulty. C. I-I. Wallace, of the Mechan
icals, was the guest of honor.
EDWARD BOOTS IS MOHrin cOea OtO,mrm 
ORIGINAL INVENTOR T0 LAST YEARS GRADi
Captain of 1911 Relay Team 
is Very Successful in 
Chosen Field
M. M. GUILD CARNIVAL 
' WILL BE HELD DEC. 8
Local alumni will be interested in 
learning of the Annual Christmas 
Carnival of the C. I. T. Guild. It is 
going to be a bigger and better affair 
than ever.
According to the tradition, Krislcrinkle Shanty and Jingle Bell Inn 
will be the source of excitement.
The Christmas spirit, Santa Clause, 
a real Christmas Tree, dancing, song, 
and jest will be features of the even
ing.
Tho Alumni are being inveigled 
into presenting a novel stunt; but 
Mrs. Spencer and Miss McCombs 
have not yet released the dope.
Remember, December 8, and save 
the' date. Plan to come and meet 
some old friends, and make some 
now ones.
Alumni throughout the country 
have undoubtedly become more or 
less acquainted with policemen, not 
perhaps in the sense that such a 
statement is usually taken, but nearly 
everyone has seen a "Dummy Police
man at some place or other, this pet 
name having been given to those 
faithful guardians of the law, who 
never sleep. We are referring to the 
beacons on the street corners of the 
various cities.
Few of us, however, know that 
these are the direct result of a Car
negie Alumnus.
Edward, "Mutts, Boots, Civil '12, 
is the man to whom belongs this 
unique distinction. Boots is a native 
of Brighton, and graduated from the 
high school of that city. That was 
not held against him, however, when 
he entered Carnegie Tech, and he had 
just as many indignities thrust upon 
him as any other inconspicuous Plebe.
As time went on, however, Mutts 
grew up, and finished in a blaze of 
glory, for he was captain of that fa
mous relay team that brought the 
Penn Cup to Carnegie in 1011.
The catastrophe of his graduation 
again threw him into the position of 
a Plebe, but evidently he did not long 
remain thus. 1-Ie first worked for the 
Pittsburgh Steel Products Company, 
then took a position with the JohnsManville Company. In 1910 he was 
called into greater fields when the 
American Gas Accumulator Company 
desired his services. While he was 
employed here, and working with 
acetylene gas buoys for harbors, he 
suddenly had the crazy notion that 
tho same idea might be used to elim
inate highway accidents. As a result, 
the highways of the country are now 
dotted with flashing crosslights, 
which are doing good service ^indeed.
As a further outgrowth of this idea, 
Mr. Boots conceived the plan of 
erecting dummies in the cities. Any 
motorist .will attest that the plan has 
been successful.
Thus it is that while the nickname 
of Mr. Boots promises but little in 
the way of enterprise and initiative, 
Mutts has nevertheless made good.
LATEST NEWS ON
THE JUNIOR PROM
THE CORROSION EXPLAINED
Visitor: How did that typewriter
get so rusty? .
City Editor: Thats the one our
Indy reporters write their sob stuff
fat 1:00 V 
oper arrangemei--- 
should be disposed [- vacuili Dally, j*
e - 
i) and f 
,g from ; 
int stamp
-Gold and Black.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Prom that has evor been given at 
Carnogle Tech. It is the wish of the 
Committee that the Senior class turn 
out to this jiff air one hundred per 
cent. With tho backing of both tlio 
Junior and Senior classes and the 
Committee working the way it is, 
thero Is no reason why the Prom 
shouldnt be the best in years, if not 
the best ever.
DR. BOHR LATEST
CAMPUS SPEAKER
(Continued From Page One.) 
poetry are imaginative answers to 
needs of actual life, declared Dr. 
Erskiue, and proved his point by go
ing back to the dim past and bring
ing old evidence to light.
Other statements made by Dr. Erskine were equally interesting, al
though one to the effect that women 
were the cause of mans eviction from 
his former Golden Life, was not 
quite approved of by the co-eds pres
ent.
Before the winter is over, there will 
have been speakers here on every 
phase of intellectual life, and Car
negie students will have had a good 
opportunity to improve their minds.
NO POULTRYMAN
Down in Texas the short cotton 
crop forced a large number of country 
negroes to the cities. One of them 
applied for a job at one of the large 
employment agencies.
Theres a job at the Eagle Laundry, 
said the man behind the desk.
Want it?
The applicant shifted uneasily from 
one foot to the other.
Tell you how it is boss, he said 
Anally. I sure does want a job mighty 
bad, but the fack is I aint never 
washed a eagle.
McGill,
ODE TO A TACK
One of last years graduates, Leroy 
L. Byerly, has received a unique dis
tinction, which reflects credit, not on\ 
ly upon himself,' but also upon his ^ 
Alma Mater.
Mr. Byerly was one of a large num
ber of entrants who submitted 
says upon mining engineering to Thel p 
Mine Safety Appliances Company.! 1 
The award really means something.] 
The prize won was an aluminum safe-j 
ty lamp which in itself was of littlell 
value. A suitable inscription has been 
placed upon it, however, and will un
doubtedly become an heirloom, as in
deed it deserves.
CARNEGIE DAY BRINGS
NOTED DIPLOMAT HERE
(Continued From Page One.) 
of Andrew 'Carnegie, but as that date: 
fell upon Sunday, the faculty selected 
Friday, November 23 as most appro
priate day for the ceremony.
^ Following the exercises, a pep 
meeting was held. The band made a 
rush for the platform, led by Band 
Leader Sullivanwho, by the way, is 
being married Thursdayproceded to 
entertain the audience. Speeches 
were given from all angles to pro
mote optimism for the Notre Dame 
game. Many distinguished men 
spoke. Among them were:. Tommy 
Stevenson, Pittscheerleader; H. G. 
Nichols, president of the Varsity 
Clan, and Bill Pfouts. Bills oration 
went over big. 1-Ie got so wound up 
in delivering it, that he forgot to 
take liis stogie along, upon his exit. 
Cy Hoennigers new trick in Fight 
for the Glory of Carnegie met with 
even greater success than it did at 
the previous pep meeting in Carne
gie Bowl.
LUTHERAN STUDENT CLUB
GIVES DELIGHTFUL PARTY
(Continued From Page One.) 
to send several delegates to the Na
tional Lutheran Volunteer Movement, 
which will hold a conference at In
dianapolis, Indiana, on December 28.
After the business meeting, . the 
evening was spent in games, music 
and dancing. Refreshments were 
served at 11 oclock after which all 
departed, looking forward to the next 
meeting. These meetings are becom
ing more popular and a record turnout 
is expected at the next one.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
NO one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them 
 for their quality 
instantly wins ap
preciation.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
Taming those
blooming whiskers'
I LB RIG H T  i IOYTAUTLM
II
Oh thou impudent little thing!
So small, so meelc, but what a sting! 
Thou sitst so still upon the chair, 
Lying in wait till I sit there.
Then will thy gleaming fang bite deep 
As goaded by thy teeth I leap,
High in the airthen back I fall 
Followed by harsh laughter from all. 
Ay, theres the rub, and woe is me 
When thy sharp point I chance to see.
Don Key.
tell nie'something of the joints?
Freshie: Sorry, sir, but Im quite
a stranger in town.
The Brown Jug.
HAVE a clean, cool shave quick! You need more than 
lather and a sharp razor. The 
keenest blade grows dull and pulls 
unless you use a supple, pliable shaving brush whose bristleshave 
just the correct degree of stiffness to massage your beard.
3 shaving brush 
comforts
You will find a Rubberset Brush has 3 important comforts.
Your beard, however tough, 
softens easily, as Rubbersets fine, full bristles whip up a quick, generous lather... one that goes to 
the roots of each hair, holds it firmly erect, easy to cut.
Rubbingin the lather with your 
fingers becomes unnecessary. Rubberset bristles are gripped everlastingly in hard rubber. They 
can't come out and mix with the lather.
Each Rubberset Brush is guaranteedunconditionally. The 
bristles stay in. tIt makes good or 
wo do. Get yours today at any storo on tho campus. Made by 
Rubberset Company, Newark. 
N.J., U.S.APAGETWOHRUBBERSET
th. e *w o rl d'sISHAVING
t a n d a r dBRUSH
