SONG BOOKS 
ON SALE TOMOREOW 
ONE DOLLAR PER COPY
SENIOR WEEK 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4 
TO TUESDAY, JUNE 10
VOL. XVIII NO. 34CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
STUDENTS MAKE 
CAMPUS WEEK A 
GREAT SUCCESS
TRUNKS TRANSFERRED? TRY 
COMFORT & FENCIL SERVICE
| This Spring Cy Comfort and Bill 
Fencil are going to use the knowl
edge that they have acquired at Car
negie Tech and apply it to the transj fer business. If you want your trunk
____________ ! taken to the station, just drop into
i the Y office and your responsibilityHard Work and Cooperation win be over. Also, each evening a
r a r' visit be made to mens and wornOi All Committees Combine . enS dormitories and to the fraterto Makf Fifth Cmrms!nity h?usesAn that is necessary to make *utn campus to haye your tnmk uken to the gta
Week Better Than Ever 'tion is the small sum of $1. just 
j remember that when it comes time 
to leave for home Comfort & Fencil FAIR A BIG FEATURE : are in the transfer business.
The wonderful success of Campus j SENIORS BANQUET
AT LINCOLN CLUB
EntertainmentPrelim 
Tickets Essential
Week was due only to the combined j 
efforts of the various committees 
whose one aim was to help to put 
Campus Week across. The average 
individual does not realize the amount
of time that the men working on, Surprise Promised by New 
these committees have given. It is 
the purpose of this article to tell' 
something about the work that was ! 
done and give the names of those who I
should receive the credit for it. -----i---------
Every event that was held required j Qf the few remaining events of the
the attention of some individual or j year> the annual Men's Senior Bangroup of individuals and it was only; qiiet stands out as one of the most 
because these men work unceasingly i prominent as well as the most promthat things progressed so smoothly. jsing; Anent this affair certain wellThe decorations for the Mardi Gras ( chosen details should be kept ever in 
did not grow there. They required) mind; namely, that the place is to be 
a lot of work. In the same way the j jie Lincoln Club, the time June 5, at 
wiring and other decorative features 6 p an(1 the prico $2.50. with this 
about the campus, the Coronation, the j reminder there will be no excuse for 
Sweepstakes, the Country Fair, all of jess than 10O per cent attendance on 
them came only after much preparathe part of the ciass of 1924. 
tion. We have listed below the names; The nature of the entertainment
of those men who helped and just 
what each on6 did.
The big new event this year was 
the Country Fair. The man who had 
charge of this was J. C. Sanford. He 
and his assistants are certainly to be 
complimented on the way in which 
the fair was managed. We are also 
indebteded to several companies in 
the Pittsburgh district wiio made do
nations. These are Liggett & Meyers, 
Rieck-McJunkin, and Dunlevy-Franklin. Mr. Milliken in charge of the 
Boy Scouts loaned the tents which 
were used. The horses were loaned 
toy the Armory of the Tenth Artillery.
Wo cannot enter, into the details of 
telling-just what each individual did. 
Cy Comfort was the chairman in 
charge of all of the Campus Week 
committees. Below are. the varioujr 
committees.
Campus Week Committees.
General Planning CommitteeE. P. 
Couse, Chairman; R. Rutilu, Wm. 
Ahearn, Rosslyn Doyle, W. F. Koppes.
Social CommitteeChas. H. James, 
Chairman; Phil Rassbach, Maxwell 
Scrimgeour, Edith Schultis, Eliza
beth Keifer.
Electrical Construction Committee 
-R. A. Garbett,  Chairman; W. C. 
Goughnour, Assistant; G. B. McElhaney, J. O. Anderson, P. M. Hisson, 
W. J. Lyman, J. D. Seabert, P. C. 
Cromwell, H. A. Neutzenholzer, O. 
W. Will, F. C. Joynt, J. C. Schuchert.
Publicity CommitteeFred C. 
Smith, Chairman; A. S. Andrews, E. 
C. Frazier, A. E. Kroglv, W. Winning. 
H. N. S'mith.
Construction CommitteeChas. J.
(Continued on Page Four.)
at the banquet is still secret, but a 
surprise feature is certain, according 
to the committee. Those whose cu
riosity will not down should see 
Chairman Beany Lowstuter for de
tails. However, it is rumored that
everyone is "packing his own', hence 
a dulltiihe is hardly to be looked for.
This Senior Banquet, as it is very 
nearly the last get-together of the 
year, has always been a traditionally ,
joyous function, where a last good j cil.
time can be had before entering into ! Vina Kalile has done
JANET PERRY! 
NEW EDITOR 
OF SHILLING
1924 THISTLE MAY NOW
BE OBTAINED AT OFFICESONG BOOK TO
Is To Be Assisted by Vina 
Kahle as Assistant Editor, 
Sara Mae Everett, Business 
Manager, For 1925
The 1924 Thistle has made its inipv j-. T A I-' T\ /~\\T
tial appearance upon the campus toK r r I A I . P I I I I \
day. You can secure your copy at]*'1' 1 ^ ^
the Thistle Ollice, Room 149, Indus' 
tries, 
the first
and don't put it ofT.
Don't forget your sales receipt.
Thistle Ollice, Room 149, Induso r t t-* l'vrT~,T'\ AT/A/'WT
is, 11:30-12:30. You want to bo  N A | P WF|j NOON
first to have a copy, so get it now H V7 V711
NEW FEATURES FOR 
SUMMERSESSION
ABLE STAFF CHOSEN
The Shilling Staff for next year has 
just been elected and the results are 
as follows: Editor-in-Chief, Janet
Perry; Associate Editor, Vina Kahle; 
Business Manager, Sara Mae Everett; 
Advertising Manager, Nora Willetts; 
Circulation Managers, Arts, Ellen Eyman, M. M. C. C., Rose Morin; Senior 
Representatives, Arts, Dorothy Dia
mond, M. M. C. C., Carol Foight; 
Junior Representatives, Arts, Eliza
beth Matter, M. M. C. C., Harriet Merwin; Sophomore Representatives, 
Arts, Gladys York, M. M. C. C., Sara 
Elizabeth Hayes. The name of the 
secretary will be announced later as 
there was a tie in the first vote.
Jerry Perry, the new Editor-inChief has served on the Shilling Staff 
for the last three years in various 
positions and held the position of As
sociate1 Editor this year. She has 
done some splendid work on the staff 
and has demonstrated the fact that 
she has the initiative and ability to 
fill the position. In addition to her 
work on the Shilling, Jerry brings to 
the position the broad viewpoint of a 
girl who lias taken part in almost 
every Carnegie activity in which it 
was'possible for girls to take part. 
She is a member of Tri-Gamma soror
ity, she is manager of the Stringers, 
vice president of the ,Girls Glee Club, 
and a member of the Dormitory CounDirect Sales Campaign to be 
Carried; Only Limited Sup
ply of Books Will be Sold 
at This Time
Special Teachers' Courses Of
fered; Are of Exceptional 
Interest
SALE ENDS THURSDAY
The first part of the second edition
of the Carnegie Song Book has ar-------------- | rived. There is in the neighborhood
The Summer Session this year j of one hundred and fifty books to be 
starts on June 16. Because of the sold, and students wishing to secure 
great interest throughout the country | a book to take home will have to 
in summer schools and the growing j act quick.
demand among teachers and others The sale will begin Wednesday 
engaged in professional and trade emj noon and close Thursday. That 
ployment for more technical training. | means that only a short time will be 
a large number of inquiries have j allowed to sell the books. The first 
reached Director R. Jr. Ihrig. ! sales campaign lasted but two days,
The courses of eight weeks will | and in that time 966 books were sold, 
start June 16, while those of six j There are still a number of students 
weeks will start June 30. The eight | "'ho have not bought books, and 
week courses are offered primarily J there will, more than likely, be a 
for undergraduates. These courses big demand for them, so get yours 
will be given in the College of Engiearly, 
neering, the College of Industries, the 
Division of General Studies, and the following places: Central Building.
Department of Architecture. TeachCommons, Margarot Morrison, Arts 
ers courses will be given in the Col1111,1 Engineering Buildings.
WILL HOLD SCARLET FEVER
HOP ON UNION ON THURSDAY
TUESDAY, MAY 27, 1924
FINAL DRAFT OF 
SENIOR WEEK 
PROGRAM MADE
The Scarlet Fever Hop, a dance, 
will be given by the Arts School,
Thursday, May 25), at the Union. The 
dance is open to everyone, and the 
charge is one dollar and a half per, 
couple. The dancing will be from 9 j 
until 12, and if enough couples are 
present it will continue until 1. The I 
Collegiate imps will be the syncopa-1 Events Carefully Selected and 
tors.
The Scarlet Fever Hop is being 
given by the Arts School to make up 
a deficit from the Arts Ball, due to its 
postponement becauso of the scarlet 
fever scare of last February. Don 
Mawhiney is chairman of the committoe in charge.
Arranged by E. R. Patton 
Promise to Make Week 
Unusually Joyous
FROM JUNE 3 TO 10
CHANGE SCENE OF 
1924 DANCE FINALE
Commencement Ball Will be 
Held in Foyer of Arts 
College
The books will be on sale in the
Never before has a graduating class 
of Carnegie Tech had a more pleasing 
program for Senior Week. Never be
fore has such a variety of events been 
offered to the Seniors during their 
last week of college. There are
enough events on the program to 
keep everyone happy, morning, after
noon and night in taking part in tho 
varied assortment of athletic and so
cial affairs ending with the com
mencement address and the bacca
laureate sermon.
The program is now complete and 
carefully selected under tho supervi
sion of E. R. Patton, general cliairlege of Fine Arts, the Margaret Mor-1 sol(l direct to tho student for ; was originally planned.
The scene of the 1024 Commence
ment Ball has been shifted from the 
new gymnasium to the foyer of the 
College of Fine Arts. This change
was made by tl,o Commotfdement | , I ^ tol.tumito in a0.
Bull committee, headed by M. Arthur Lurlng the 0,.vlces of  8ub.commU. 
Brace, after much deliberation, and. t00 ad(HtloI1 t0 tho co.or,lt,on ot 
the final social affair o the present ; tho .,mlnl(llnlUnn. 
school year will he held In the Arte Solllor Wcel! schadulea t0 slnrl 
Books Foyer instead of In tho new gym as on Xnos(lv June 3_ t0 eud on
good
the serious complexities of life. All 
men Seniors in the various colleges 
are eligible (and expected) to attend 
this, their last class banquet.
Preliminary tickets must be pur
chased 'in advance. A tax of ten 
cents hasbeen placed on these, which 
is Calculated to discourage some of 
the' eager crowd and prevent jam
ming at the doors. The red. tags may 
be obtained from Schoerke in Science, 
Dyke in Industries, and Lowstuter or 
Sonneman in Arts. Get em early and 
avoid the mob.
(Continued on Page Three.)
rlson Carnegie College, nml the Dothe price of one dollar. Mail orders 
partment of Teacher Training in the "m 1,0 Ulken rc ,,f' Providing an
Events On Schedule 
For Women Seniors
Seniors to End Stay 
On Campus Frivously
Series of Carefree Events to 
Mark Last Days of Col
lege Career
The Seniors college career is slow
ly waning. After four years of dili
gent work these Carnegie men and 
women wall step forward into the 
world to face the problems of life. 
But before they venture into this 
cold unknown they will have their 
own week of frivolity. From June 3 
to June 10 th Seniors will reign su
preme on the campus. This will prob
ably be their last time to enjoy the 
comradeship of the friends they have 
made during their stay at Carnegie.
The first great event of Senior 
Week will be the Class Picnic at 
Neville Island. Thursday the men 
will have their first opportunity to use 
the swimming pool in the new gym. 
At 6 p. m. of the same evening the 
men will have their banquet at the 
Lincoln Club.
Friday the Senior men and women 
will use the pool. This promises to 
be an enjoyable time.
Saturday, June 7,4the tennis courts 
are for the Seniors exclusively. Some 
exciting mixed doubles are assured.
The event of events for Senior 
week is the one which takes places at 
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
MOTOR TRANSPORT UNIT 
WILL LEAVE CARNEGIE
Include Luncheon, Theater 
Party, Alumnae Tea
On Wednesday, June 4. the. Senior 
fun yill begin with a picnic on the 
Dravo Construction Company prop
erty on Neville Island. The party 
will leave from Forbes and Woodlawn at 1:30 p. m.
The next day, Thursday, an event 
exclusively for the Marfaret Morri
son and Arts girls will be the Wom
ens Luncheon held at McCreerys at 
1 oclock. Jo Gibson is chairman of 
the committee iin charge of this al
ways popular feature of Senior 
Week. At 4 oclock the girls are to 
meet in front of M. M. C. C. and 
proceed to the New Gym, armed with 
bathing suits, for the final exclusive 
swimming party.
At 8 p. m., June 5, the Womens 
Senior Theater Party will be held at 
the Davis. Grace Moore is chair
man of the committee, in-charge of 
the arrangements.
Friday, June 6, at 2 p. m., is the 
combined swimming party in the 
Carnegie pool. At 8 p. m.. Dean 
Brown will entertain the Seniors, 
both men and women, at her home, 
920 St. James street.
The tennis courts are to be re
served all day Saturday for the 
Seniors.
Saturday, at 2 oclock, the Alumnae 
will hold a tea in honor of the 
Senior Women, in the Margaret Mor
rison Faculty Parlors. Mrs. Fetke is 
in charge.
The Baccalaureate Sermon is to be 
delivered by Rev. William C. Covert, 
D. D., in the Carnegie Music Hall, at 
8 p. m., Sunday, June S.
At 5:30 p .m., on Monday, the 
class will hold a supper in the M. 
M. cafeteria, and at8 oclock the 
Drama Department will present 
From Now On, by Harry Hamil(Continued on Page Two.)
Mollenauer Elected 
Vice Pres, of Council
Committee Chairmen for Com
ing Year Appointed
The newly elected Student Council, 
which will control the campus desti
nies of the students of Carnegie for 
the year 1924-25, held its organization 
meeting hist week. A joint meeting 
was also held with the outgoing Stu
dent Council.
The meeting was in charge of Pres: 
ident Matter. V. L. Mollenauer was 
elected vice president of the Council. 
As the President, Treasurer and Sec
retary were elected by the old coun
cil, all the offices have been filled.
President Matter appointed the fol
lowing committee chairmen at this 
| meeting: M. D. Kallfelz, Financial;
V. L. Mollenauer, Non Budgot Organ
izations; G. E. Slye, Budget Organi
zations; O. B. Newman, Social; and 
C. H. James, Special. Obie Newman 
presented a tentative social calendar 
for the school year 1924-25. The 
Council also decided to, continue the 
existing salary rates for the Secre
tary and Treasurer.
The officers of the new Student 
Council are as follows:
Officers.
President ....................... Milo Matter
Vice President..........V. L. Mollenauer
Treasurer .....................M. D. Kallfefz
Secretary .................... Elizabeth Yohe
The complete personnel of the 1924- 
25 Student Council will be published 
in the next issue of the Tartan. This 
list will give the college, address, 
and phone number of each member.
A.S.M.E. HOLDS ANNUAL 
BANQUET AT CHATHAM
NIGHT SCHOOL GRADS WILL
BE GUESTS OF DR. BAKER
With the approval of President 
Baker and by the order of President 
Coolidge, the Motor Transport Corps' 
will be withdrawn from Carnegie, ef
fective June 31, 1924. This withdraw
al, as requested by the Quartermas
ter General, is due to his following 
out of a plan of curtailment of ex
pense and with a view of securing fu
ture Motor Transport Officers from 
graduating engineers who are spe
cializing in the automotive industry 
at the various automobile factories.
Therefore, the senior class Motor 
Transport unit of the R. O. T. C. will 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Forty-five prospective graduates of 
the evening courses this year will be 
guests of President Baker at a din
ner and informal reception next 
Thursday night, May 29th, in the 
cafeteria of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College. The graduating 
class of night students is said to be 
one of the largest in the history of 
the evening divisions.
In addition to the students, other 
guests will include members of the 
board of trustees. The affair will be 
the first occasion the night school 
graduates will have to meet as a 
group before the Commencement ex
ercises for both the day and the 
night classes on Tuesday, June 10th.
Fun and good fellowship were ram
pant at the banquet which was held 
by the Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society last Thursday evening at 
the Hotel Chatham. , Music, speeches, 
a good menu, and above all, the peer
less toastmaster, Prof. W. Trinks, 
contributed to making the evening a 
most enjoyable one.
The principal speaker of the even
ing was Mr. M. R. Walton of 09. Be
sides relating some of the early his
tory of the C. M. E. S., he told of 
the general difficulties which are met 
by a college graduate. Interesting 
I talks were given by T. G. Estep and 
A. H. Blaisdell.
It remained for the toastmaster to 
show the versatility of a Mechanical 
Engineer, by exhibiting some very 
ingenious toys which were made by 
two Carnegie Tech graduates of Me
chanical Engineering. These toys are 
on exhibition at Prof. TrJnks office 
at any time, and are well worth see
ing.
The election of officers for next 
year resulted in A. S'tiegler being 
elected president; Serabian, vice 
president; E. G. Johnson, secretary; 
and S. H. Hahn, treasurer.
The committee deserves credit for 
their work in making the banquet a 
success. The committee consisted of 
W. A. MacDowell, chairman, E. G. 
Johnson, J. W. Jones, W. Bender.
College of Industries.
A\ feature of the courses in home 
economics to be given by the Marga
ret Morrison Carnegie College is the 
exemption from tuition fees for ali 
teachers of home economics who de
sire to take these courses. No tui
tion fee is charged because the 
courses will be given under the pro 
visions of the Smith-Hughes Act. The 
courses will be of six weeks duration 
and will be in Nutrition, Cookery. 
Household Management. Sewing. 
Dressmaking, and Special Methods in 
Vocational Home Economics.
Except for undergraduate courses 
in Architecture, the courses in tho 
College of Fine Arts will be six 
Weeks in length and will be primarily 
for teachers ot art. and music. In 
addition to the courses on the campus, 
the College of Fine Arts will give nov
erai courses' in art and music at tho 
University of Pittsburgh.
The courses in the College of Indus(Continued on Page Two.)
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB WILL
HOLD BANQUET ON FRIDAY
The annual banquet of the Cosmo
politan Club will bo held at fi:30 on 
.Ttme 6 in the University of Pitts
burgh Faculty Club. Reservations at 
$1.75 per plate, must be made at least 
a week in advance with Miss Levina 
Silver. 4051 Bayard street. Dr. N. A. 
N. Cleven will be toastmaster and 
Dean Tarbell and Miss Agnes Byrnes 
will speak. At this meeting new offi
cers will be welcomed and the old 
ones accorded a farewell. The din
ner is open to members and tliolr 
friends.
additional ten cents for postage is in 
eluded.
Seniors especially should be sure 
to got a Song Book for, upon gradua
tion, it is impossibe to say whore 
they might locate. A Song Book will 
always bring back the memories of 
tho good old college days, with their 
songs and yells.
Dont forget the sale starts 
Wednesday, so get out your dollar, 
and buy one of Carnegies groutost 
tradition preservers.
Senior Picnic Tags 
To Be On Sale Soon
Urge That All Seniors Buy a 
Tag Promptly
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Every active member or a college, 
every student who takes any sort of 
interest in the life of a school,
knows that there are many petty
battles, many trials and tribulations 
to vex the serenity of a college cam
pus. We all realize this. But, did 
you ever go deeper and try to find 
the trouble? When things go wrong 
for you about school, did you ever 
stop to reason it out, or do you 
automatically blame it on the other 
fellow?
One of the fundamental reasons 
for friction between organizations,
for trouble between faculty and stu
dents, is misunderstanding. There is 
misunderstanding between two 
groups of students on the campus, 
perhaps, or between a student and a 
member of the faculty, and imWith but few additions the regular
mediately there grows up a feeling j faculty in charge of the day and even-, 
of antagonism. Man has always! in courses will conduct the summer
A new committoe has boon ap
pointed to take care of tho Senior 
Week Picnic, to be hold Wodnosday 
of that woelf. Tho now committee 
consists of J. C. Sanford (chairman) 
Frank Trimbly, K. 'P. Davis, MIhh 
Chalmers, Miss Coons and Miss 
Mur Ian Bond.
It has boon decided that a tag 
will be sold on tho campus, which 
will entitle the buyer to go on tho 
picnic. The price of this tag will 
cover all oxponsos, such as street 
car fare, oats, dancing and tho lilco. 
As explained In last weeks Issuo of 
Tho 'Parian, tho picnic, will bo hold 
on Neville Island, which Is an Ideal 
place for such an affair.
The Pittsburgh Hallways will sup
ply tho transportation. Special cars 
will leave the campus at 2 p. 
and leave the picnic grounds at 12 
midnight. The cars will convey the 
crowd from the campus direct to the 
grounds.
Prizes are to be given for the dif
ferent. field contests to be hold and 
many features are being arranged on 
the program, so that everyone should 
have the time of his life.
In an interview, Mr. Sanford said: 
I ask that all Seniors that intend 
to go to the picnic (and you sure 
don't want to miss it) buy a tag as 
soon as they are put on sale, so the 
committee will know how many to 
plan on.
Be sure to get that tag as soon as 
they come out on the campus. They 
should make their appearance some
time during this week.
CHANGES ARE MADE IN 
FACULTY FOR SUMMER
feared that which he does not under
stand, and the chip-on-the-shoulder 
attitude is nothing more or less than 
a display of fear.
Students fail to understand for 
several reasons. They may be nar
row-minded, or they may just refuse 
look into a matterthat old 
ostrich attitude. The one cause of 
trouble which mos of us consider 
the greatest, though, is ignorance on 
the part of the student, or, for that 
matter, on the part of the faculty, 
or of organizations as a whole.
This may seem like very general 
talk, but when one hears a lot of 
blab about college spirit being lack
ing on our campus it is quite Irritat
ing. College spirit comes as the re
sult of understanding of a school, 
and it can not bo manufactured at 
will. You either feel it, or you 
don't; you either love your school, 
or you attend it to get an education 
-'-the two are not synonomous.
And then, this misunderstanding 
which students get into often leads 
them to suppose all sorts of things, 
for Instance, that the Commence
ment Ball is for men only! What a 
thing to believe, when its really 
for all Tech, men and women, even 
(Continued on Page Three.)
courses this year.
The administration announces that 
with a few additions the summer 
school will be conducted by the reg
ular staff. Among those who are to 
supplement the faculty personnel are 
C. Valentine Kirby, State Director of 
Art, and J. V. Wilson. Mr. Kirby, 
who will assist the Departments of 
Painting and Illustration and Applied 
Art, will be here from July 7 to July 
18. Mr. Wilson will instruct in archi
tectural design. He was a graduate 
of Carnegie In 1013, holds a degree 
of master of architecture from Har
vard, and was winner of the Robin
son Traveling Prize at Harvard In 
1910.
The Department of Music will have 
a great Instructor, Miss Marlen 
Kappes, of tho Cleveland Public 
Schools. Miss Kappes will give the 
courses usually conducted by Miss 
Susan T, Canfield, who is on a leave 
of absence during tho summer. Miss 
Kappes Is a graduate of Northwest
ern University and has studied under 
Jacquesdalcroze at the Hellerau In
stitute in Germany, and at Geneva In
stitute at Switzerland. She has also 
held teaching positions in New York 
City, Los Angeles, and at Penn State 
College.
This change in tho location of tho 
ball was made nocossary when the 
Campus Week Mardi Gras showed 
that the floor in tho new gymnasium 
is somewhat unsuitable for dancing. 
Bosides being rather rough in spots 
the floor in tho now gym lias just re* 
ooutly been varnished. As a result of 
thoso causos tho co-offieiont of fric
tion is much too largo for satisfactory 
dancing thoro.
The date for tho staging of tho so
cial finale of tho eurront school yonr 
and tho last uudorgraduato ovont for 
tho outgoing Seniors romalns un
changed. It will bo held on the even
ing of Tuesday, June 10, from 1) p. 
m. until I a. in.
As was previously announced, tho 
music for tho Commencement Ball 
will bo furnlMhod by the Illnes Bros. 
Orchestra. 'Phis Is a nlno-plooo group 
of syncopators which has made a well 
earned reputation for itself through 
Its playing at The Willows and at tho 
Fort l'ltt Hotel. Tills orchestra 
comes highly rocoihmondod to the 
committee and much Is expected of It 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
New Y.M.C.A. Cabinet 
Is Installed for Year
Work of Next Year Started 
at Initial Meeting
Oil May 4, at the Ruskln Apart
ments the Y cabinet' for the year 
1924*25 was Installed:
Y. CabinetP. C. Hoonnlger. 
President; M. W. Bastion, Vico 
President; J. L. Seaman, Secretary; 
It. V. Horn, Religious Meetings; W. 
B. Goodby, Bible Study; R. D. Gill, 
Foreign Students; J. J. Carr, Student 
Conferences; E. C!. Frazier, New Stu
dents; J. R. Reed, Financial Cam
paign ; R. J. Kredel, Social; F. C. 
Smith. Publicity.
There were about 30 present at the 
installation and a joint meeting of 
the Committee of Management and 
the cabinet was held.
After the installation, Mr. Locke, a 
local attorney and member of the 
Board of Directors of the Metropoli
tan Association, and Mr. McCarthy, 
General Associate Secretary of the 
Y. M. C. A. of Pittsburgh, addressed 
the group.
A discussion about the annual con
vention at Silver Bay brought out the 
prospect of a good delegation from 
Carnegie. Twenty applications have 
been filed with Mr, Davis and he is 
going to send as many as possible. 
Some of the boys are going to hike 
up while others are going by auto and 
train.
The development of a C-Y Club, a 
truly Carnegie organization, and a 
continuance of the I-Ii-Y Club which 
is a High School BoyB club, is a new 
feature in the 1924-25 campaign.
Tuesday, Juno 10. All day Tuesday, 
Juno 3, tho tennis courts will bo 
available for both Senior men mid 
women. It Is hoped that they will 
not pass tho day too strenuously and 
thus be unable to join tho Senior 
Picnic, tho next day. Wodnosday. Cars 
for l.lio picnic will leave Forbes and 
Woodlawn avonuos at 1:80 p. m. for 
the Dravo Construction Company 
property on Novlllo Island. Thoro 
will bo dancing from S to 12 p. in.
Thursday Is another great, day. Tho 
women hold tliolr luncheon at 
MoCroorys at I p. m swim In tho 
now gymnasium pool at 4 p. m., and 
moot at 8 p. in. for a Davis Theater 
party, while the men meet In front 
of tho Central Building for parade to 
the new gymnasium where they will 
swim at 2 p. in.. and later on ban
quet at the Lincoln Club, 6 p. m.
Friday, June (I, foaturos the Senior 
men and womens combined .swim
ming party lu tho pool. 'Phoy will 
meet In front of M. M. (. ('. r.ookoru 
and keys will be furnished t.0 nil who 
attend. Competitive racing and div
ing will add zest, to I lie program. That 
evening, Dean Brown will hold a re
ception and garden party for men and 
women at 920 St. .Tames street. No 
personal Invitations are belli lasued.
On Saturday, June 7. tlie tonnfi* 
courts will again bo reserved all day 
for Seniors. The Senior women will 
attend (ho Alumnae Ten at 3 p. /n. 
lu the faculty parlors or M. M. O. C.
Sunday, .I'une 8, (he baccalaureate 
Morunjin will be delivered at fai-neglo 
Music Hall by Dr, William OliafuiorM 
Covert, General Secretary of tho 
Board of Chrlstinn Education of tho 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Surveying Camp To Be 
Held At Davis, W. Va.
Miners and Civils Will Spend 
Six Weeks at Camp
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB HOLDS
ANNUAL PICNIC DESPITE RAIN
The Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan 
Club had Its annual picnic oh Sun
day, May 3 8, 1924, It was quite an In
teresting affair and proved a great 
success.
It was arranged to have been held 
at Frock's Wood, near Homewood 
Cemetery but owing to udVerne cllmate and heavy rain that broke out, 
tho club was forced to make it a 
house party. Thanks due to Miss Sil
ver of 4501 Bayard street for tho 
favor.
There was lots of fun and the whole 
affair was immensely enjoyed by the 
members. Songs by different nation
alities formed the main feature of the 
affair.
Summer surveying camp will be 
held at Davis, W. Va., about on hun
dred miles, as the bird flies, .^mth* 
east of Pittsburgh. The time will bo 
from June 12 to July 23, Inclusive. 
This location has been selected again 
because everything needed for n. suc
cessful conductance of the surveying 
courses Is handy, and further because 
of tho complete satisfaction afforded 
by the accommodations.
The course, as in the past will bo 
divided into two parts, one three 
weeks long, and the other for six 
weeks. The mining and civil engi
neering students will stick it at for 
the whole six weeks, while the Build
ing Construction students are to fin
ish in half that time.
From a point of view of location 
Davis is Ideally situated on the lop 
of the Allegheny Mountains. A near
by stream flows by affording good 
swimming, which is a good 
tiling to have around, as every young 
American will readily admit. A nice 
plunge into the depths of a clear 
river is just the recreat ion one needs 
after a hot day chasing sighta 
through a transit and level, and ron(Continued on Page Two.)
JUNE 9 SET FOR SENIOR 
DINNER-THEATER PARTY
As one of their last social events 
the Senior men and women will hold 
a dinner and theater party, Monday, 
.Tuno 9. Dinner will be sdrved at the 
M. M. Cafeteria at 5:30 p. m. to bo 
followed by a program of'stunt in
cluding the class prophesy mid tho 
singing of Carnegie songs.
At tho conclusion of the stunts tho 
Seniors will go to the Little Theater 
to see a play to be given especially 
for them by the Drama Department.
The party is for Seniors only. Tho 
dinner will be one dollar per plate. 
All Seniors are expected to be fforesent.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 27. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Torbnology under tho supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoiilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
. .EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH...................................................................................Hiland 8038-M
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. I). ROSSINI T. J. DI'SEY K. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
Sara Mae Everett, A. E. Krogh, D. A. Gardner, L. II. Harris, Harriet Merwln, 
A, F. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PHELPS................................................................................Schenloy 0102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING...........................................................................................Schenloy 0070
V. li. SMITH.........................................................................................Frankl lu 0287-J
REPORTERS
Estelle (iarlbahll, Wilma Stiner, Carol Folglit, Almee Pharo, E. G.
Johnson, K. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland, C. A. Lundquhit, It. L, Lapper, M.
Holllnshead, W. Fencil, W. Senlcus, D. K. Mims.
ROSEMARY McCAMI3RIDGE ................................................. ALUMNI EDITOR
Assistants...................Margaret McFali, .1. M. Goss, M. W. (Jay, Nora Willetts.
J. CHRISTOFF........................................................................ ATHLETIC EDITOR
Assistants..................G. E. Jacoby, J. F. Hiirrls, E. C. Plummer, J. A. C. Foller
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. CIBSON........................................................................................Schenloy 0211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESEIl...........................................................................................Schenloy 0122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
I>. MOSKOV1TZ ............................................................................................Hazel 1122
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, It. L. Sandrock, A. Groduer, L. Harbrow, Lee 0. Osborn, J. M. 
Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerlo, .J. P. Strlzak, Lois Snyder
The Edkor-ln-Chlof is responsible lor the policy or tills pupor; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows Items must be in tho student 
post ollieo before 4:3U Thursday.
Tartan OillcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Ollice hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20.
THE RECOGNITION PIN
R. 0. T. C. Graduates 
To Get Commissions
] Drama Department 
To Stage New Play;
Thirty-Three Men Will be 
Given Army Offices
The Bulletin Board have recently been placarded with a more 
or less artistic .design forniiffiig an appeal to the Alumni to get to
gether in an organization of all who have been connected with the 
Institution.
18,'000 of us, say the headlines. Quite a few, isnt it? Twenty 
years from now it will be: 40,000 of us. As we leave school this 
summer to have a rest and a vacation it seems probable that each of 
us shall meet one or several of this group. We shall meet, but we 
shall miss him. That is, unless we are equipped with the new Recog
nition Pin issued by the Alumni Office. A large number of Alumni 
have already availed themselves of the opportunity of purchasing 
such pins, but very few students have been aware of their existence.
The pins are small, but distinctive in that they carry our school 
flower and the four colors of the four colleges as well us of the school. 
A sample is on display in the bulletin cabinet in front of the Alumni 
Office in the Central Building. The price: $1.00, is so small that one 
might be tempted to think the pin of inferior quality. It must be 
remembered, however, that there are 18,000 of us. Let us all 
carry our emblem with us when we leave after the exams.
THE SHILLING
A new stall has been elected to manage the Shilling for next 
year. The Tartan lakes this opportunity to wish the new sta/fl! 
success.
The Shilling is a Campus publication, and as such should be sup
ported by the students much better than has been done in the past. 
For some reason or other, tho Shilling sales arc never very high. 
This fact is hard to account J!or. The Shilling has no competitors in 
the line of material which it carries; 1 is tho only publication which 
is handled exclusively by the girls; its articles are usually very in
teresting; but they have a hard time selling it.
Whats the matter? Surely twenty-live cents will not break any
one on (lie Campus.
Lets got behind this activity, and support it as ii should bo.
THE NEW STAFF
With this issue of the Tartan, the now staff takes hold. Just 
how uccoNHlully it will function is a matter that only time can tell. 
We fool that this is a fitting time to voice our opinion on the work 
the'out going staff has accomplished.
U cannot be too highly commended for the progress tho paper 
has made during the past year. Kor the first time since its inception, 
the Carnegie Tartan has taken into its own hands the accomplishSO of a definite Campus project, namely the Song Hook, lu many 
..nor things this years Tartan, has more ably fulfilled its functions 
than ever before. Many of tho improvomonts wore not so noticeable 
to tile casual reader, but to the stall: they wore very apparent.
Carnegie Tech owes a vote of thanks to the three men stepping 
out, Hank Simpson, Jo Major and Ken Arnold,, for their work on the 
Tartan, and wo take this means to express it.
May they have as great success in their life work as they have 
had on this.
Thirty-tWee students have com
pleted their il. O. G. courses and 
tho majority of them will be award
ed their commissions as second lieu
tenants in the U. S. Officers Reserve 
Corps :it the Commencement oxerchios, June 8th. Of the 33 men, 21 
will receive tliolr commissions, 10 
will bo presented wftli certificates ex
changeable for commissions when 
they have completed attendance at 
camp tills suminor, and two others 
will receive certificates exchangeable 
for commissions when they become 
21 yours of age.
Men who will he commissioned next 
month are P. M. Illssom. in the Sig
nal Corps; John W. Jones, Victor C. 
Johnston, and Henry J. McHenry, 
in the Engineering Corps; and 
Dwight D. Foster in tho Quartermas
ter Corps.
Mon who will be commissioned af
ter they have completed attendance 
at camp this summer, Include Charles 
13, Hollingsworth in tho Engineering 
f'orps, and John O'Hara Anderson, In 
j tho Signal Corps. Bernard M. Broudy 
will be awarded a certificate ex
change for a commission when he boI comes 21 yoars of age.
Out-of-town students to be commis
sioned include the following: Signal
Corps; James T. Allen, St. Augustine, 
Fla.; Floyd M. Harris, Union City, 
Pa.; John F. Lamb, New Castle, Pa.; 
Walter J. Lyman, Buffalo, N. Y.; John 
M. Pelikan, Pleasant City, Ohio; John
D. Seabert, Turtle Creek, Pa.
Engineer CorpsJohn S. Buzzard,:
Willard, Ohio; Marie S. Downes. Buck-1 
hannon, W. Va.; William M. Fencil, 
Chicora, Pa.; Enos M. Johnston, Bing
hamton, N. Y.; Willard P. Knight, 
Islington, Mass.; Theodore F. Loughry, Elyria, Ohio; George E. Slye, Hart
ford, Conn.
Quartermaster Corps  Leon W. 
Cornmun, Carlisle, Pa.; Lee A. Kline, 
Annville, Pa.; Harry B. Lilley, Charolston, W. Va.
The following will be commissioned 
after they have attended camp this 
summer: Enginepr CorpsSamuel
E. Bittner, Now London, Conn.; Her
man C. Curtin, Hartford, Conn.; 
James IT. Davis, Turtle Creek, Pa.; 
Russell D. Fahrenbach, Reading, Pa.; 
Henry Iv. Klugh, Harrisburg, Pa.
Motor Transport CorpsRichard It. 
Fitzsimmons, Broolcvillo, Pa.;1 John 
G. Schlicter, Portsmouth, Ohio; Doug
las A. Schoorko, Buffalo, N. Y.
Floyd W. Bremmer, of Dunkirk, N. 
Y., will bo awarded a certificate ex
changeable for his commission when 
lie becomes 21 yenrs of ago.
EVENTS ON SCHEDULE
FOR SENIOR WOMEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
ton, in the Little Theater, for a 
Senior audience.
Tuesday Junqi is the Onal day 
for frolteing. Commencement exer
cises will be hold in the Music Hall 
at 10:30 a. in. General Tasker H.
Bliss will deliver tho addroBs of tho 
day. Afterwards, in tho Foyer of 
tho Carnegie Music Hall, a reception 
will bo held by President Baker, the 
Trustees, Directors and Doans. The 
Commencement Ball that night Is 
Arts College will be tho grand Unale. 
Hines Brothers  Orchestra will pro
vide music, and dancing will con
tinue from 9 until 1.
1924 Senior Week Program
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4
Senior Picnic1:30 to 12:00 P. M........................................Neville Island
THURSDAY, JUNE 5
Womens Luncheon1:00 P. M...................................................McCreery's
Mens Senior Swim2:00 P. M.................................Carnegie Gymnasium
Womens Senior Swim4:00 P. M...........................Carnegie Gymnasium
Mens Senior Banquet6:00 P. M............................................Lincoln Club
Womens Senior Theater Party8:00 P. M.......................Davis Theater
FRIDAY, JUNE 6
Mens and Womens Combined Senior Swim2:00 P. M.................
.............................................................................. Carnegie Gymnasium
Dean Browns Senior Party8:00 P. M........... .920 St. James Street
SATURDAY, JUNE 7
TennisAll Day....................................................................Carnegie Courts
Alumnae Ten for Senior Women3:00 P. M.......M. M. Faoulty Parlors
SUNDAY, JUNE 8
Bnccalnurcnte Sermon8:00 P. M..........................Carnegie Muslo Hail
MONDAY, JUNE 9
Senior Baseball Game10:00 A. M......................................Carnegie Bowl
Class Supper5:30 P. M....................................................M. M. Cafeteria
Drama Department Play8:00 P. M....................................Little Theater
TUESDAY, JUNE 10
Commencement Exorcises10:30 A. M...............Carnegie Music Hall
Reception by President, Trustees, Directors and Deans12:30 P.......
M...................................................................................Foyer, Music Hall
Commencement Ball9:00 to 1:00 A. M.................College of Flno Arts
'HIGH FIRES"
(By Marjorie Barkley McClure, 
Little, Brown & Co., Boston) 
"High Fires" prosenta a now sot
ting for an old problem, or. rather a 
now combination of sovorul old prob
lems. Tho barrier that is never 
wholly absent, and often painfully 
prominent between parent and child 
llguron largely in tho story. Tho dif
ficulties arising when the children of 
entirely uncongenial families fall in 
love complicate matters. Thero Is lu
ll nil,e pathos in tho npoctaclo of "a 
man of high character and Ideals,
coming to see his life work in a 
801180 a failure, yot having exortod 
that Iniluenco for good that Is tho
true Immortality.
Thorn Is a groat deal of dramatic 
Intensity, lu the relation of that man 
(a minister) with his children. You'vo 
known wonderful fathers and motliros who disapproved of dancing and 
cards, havent you? This truly
charming and lovable father goes
oven further. Ho voluntarily roducos 
Ills own salary when he feels that his 
parishioners spiritual welfare domauds a lessoning of their financial 
burden. Poverty has no terrors for 
him, but what of his family?
The characters ure convincingly hu
man, and their problems are present
ed in realistic situations with a cer
tain charming delicacy of touch that 
saves the boob from threatening som
berness.
One critic of the olderconsider
ably oldergeneration has said that 
young people should not be allowed to 
read High Fires". "They get 
enough Ideas, as it is!" she said, and 
so, all unwittingly, she put her fin
ger on one of the best things about 
the book. It suggests any number 
of "ideas".
The Bat alno ran. The Cat and the 
Canary did not even run. The Blue 
Bandana, we prophesy, will quite ex
tinguish tho whole menagerie of zoo 
logically named detective plays. It 
contains all the old gags freshly used 
and a pep that in all its own. The 
stage is infested just now with ig
noramuses trying to write highly 
original plays. Here comes a gen
uinely experienced playwright who 
announces loudly to all his friends 
that he is writing a play out of old 
stuff, which is to bo a composite pic
ture of all the penny dreadfuls he 
could get his bunds on. We come to 
Ills play prepared. Old stuff, all 
right. But new turns to everything. 
Hubert Osborne could not do an un
original thing if lie tried. But if he 
Ihinks lie can, lot him keep on trying. 
Wo could all do with more plays like 
the Blue Bandana.
The adroit management of the dou
ble ehuractbr was the first ingredient 
of the plays success. That one per
son can so resemble another as to de
ceive even intimate, friends as well as 
careless spectators Is an accepted lit
erary and dramatic convention, how
ever lie possible in real life. , But most 
plays which try to present it fail be
cause they violate the first and great
est artistic commandment, "Thou 
shalt get away with It. The movies 
are more successful. But Mr. Os
borne has so skilfully managed his 
technique that his play gets trium
phantly away with the whole ticklish 
business. The apdience was bewil
dered, whenever ' the playwright 
wished them to be, as to which of the 
doubles was speaking.
Then, tliero was romance in just 
the right amount, ail the old melo
drama stage tricks in, just the1 right 
amount. And, finally, the Blue Ban
dana had what the Bat and the Cat 
and Canary lacked, a personality in 
the central role. That element of 
character creation as well as plot Is 
the thing that puts Sherlock Holmes 
and Arsene Lupin above the more re
cent corp of criminal dramas. "Gen
tleman Jim" Delono was a definite 
type, and the man he impersonates is 
another definite type, both interesting 
in themselves quite aside from the 
action. That's why the Bat and Cat 
and Canary may go eat each other 
up. We vote for the Blue Bandana, 
worthy successor of Arsene, the 
inimitable gamin of Paris, and his 
English rival, both of whom have en
dured for many decades because like 
Mr. Osborne, their playwrights fol
lowed the classical receipts founded 
on human nature.
We wish the play a long Now York 
run. and (though this will be difficult 
of fulfillment) we wish Mr. Osborne 
may have the rare good fortune to 
find for his Now York company a star 
with the vitality, charm, and distinc
tion of Mr. Chester Wallace, and as 
good a cast to support him.
ALLENE GREGORY. '
Premiere of the Lioness Set 
for Tomorrow
Yes, we have another melo-drama, 
chants the Drama Department, and 
Wednesday evening, May 28, at 8:15 
p. ;n. the curtain rises on "The Lion
ess", written by Carroll FItzhugh, 
prominent Pittsburgher.
Contrary to a rumor about the 
campus, the scene is not laid in the 
Highland Park Zoo, but in the jun
gles of Africa and the wilds of New 
York.
It. will be produced under the di, rectlon of Chester Wallace, who has 
I been closely watched by local con! stables ever since he got away with 
I the Blue Bandana the other night at 
! the Schenley, where he was a joy to 
I every Carnegie Clansman.
I The cast Includes Harry Mervis in 
tho title role supported by E. Pip 
Perrin, Philip Rhodes Thom, Lloyd 
Voder, Mary Brown, Allene Gregory, 
Janet Millis, Harriett Walker, Vernle 
Haiden', Bud Spindler, Joe Wads
worth, and Ben Weinblatt.
The elaborate program of the 
| Drama Department calls for . plays to 
! continue until graduation week. The 
| productions yet to come are three 
j one-act plays: Stush, by Mrs. E. H. 
; Harris; "Paducah, by Harry Hamil
ton; and "Cali the -Police, byHarI rie.tt Wulker. Then, for the last play 
! of the season will be given a new 
: three-act drama by Harry Hamilton.
SENIOR SWIMS SHOULD 
BE POPULAR EVENTS
The Senior Swims, to be held 
Thursday and Friday of Senior 
Woolc, should prove one of the big 
drawing powers of the celebration. 
Thursday at 2 p. m. will bo held tho 
Mons Senior Swim and Womens 
Swim is scheduled for 1 p. m.
Friday, howovor, Is tho big party. 
At that time both tho men and wom
en will have a chance to prove their 
skill In tho different water, events. 
Burlosque prizes will bo given tho 
winners of tho several contests to 
bo hold. It is rumored that Old 
King Noptune in Schenloy Park has 
lioon Invited ovor, to got a chance 
to soo a real pool.
Rumors are about that towels will 
he supplied, but it is not certain 
whether thoy will bo or not. Tho 
committee feels that, since this is 
tho first time some of the Seniors 
have seen water this year, the 
towels would be so dirty that the 
entire expense of buying the school 
new towels would fall upon it. Per
haps some of the Seniors will back 
up this movement.
Further plans will be made known 
within the near future. Watch for 
them.
NEW FEATURES OFFERED
BY SUMMER SESSION
(Continued From Page One.) 
tries wili.be for teachers of Industrial 
and manual arts and for undergrad
uates. The shops and laboratories 
throughout the college will be avail
able for the program of summer 
courses. Among the subjects offered 
will be engineering drawing, geom
etry, mechanical drafting, machine 
shop practice, electric equipment and 
construction, plumbing, heating, ven
tilating, welding, sheet metal work, 
wood working, cabinet making, and 
manual arts education.
All courses in the College of Engi
neering will be for eight weeks, from 
June 16 to August 8, with the excep
tion of the courses in surveying and 
the short course in coal-mining. The 
engineering courses are to include in
struction in drawing, mathematics, 
chemistry, physics and mechanics. 
The courses in surveying, to be con
ducted by the Department of Civil 
Engineering, will be given at the In! stituto Camp located at Davis, W. Va., 
from June 12 to July 23 for Sopho
mores and night students, and from 
June 12 to July 2 for Sophomores in 
tho Department of Building Construc
tion. The four weeks course in coul 
mining will be given from June 16 
to July 15 in co-operation with the 
U. S. Bureau of Mines.
In addition to the work in the four 
colleges, the Division of General 
Studies will give courses in English, 
Mathematics, Industrial History, Eco
nomics, Commercial Law and Psy
chology.
Special arrangements have been 
made to accommodate a large num
ber of studonts In tho dormitories on 
tho campus. Much attention is also 
being paid to tho rocreational facili
ties. It has been to have tho swim
ming pool of tho now gym. open 
throughout the Summer School 
for tho studonts. Inspection trips, 
picnics by departments, and special 
loctures will also constitute a large 
sharo In tho rocreational features.
Psychology Professors Inform us 
that one of the two fundamental I 
laws to which nature subjects all \ 
| her creatures is the law of variaj 
tion, i. e., every species is different 
from all other species and every 
member of the species is different 
from all other members of his own 
group.
This principle holds for human In
stitutions as well as for human be
ings. When one hears old grads 
speak fondly of their undergraduate 
days, one cannot fail to notice that 
their chief interest lies around those 
things which made the particular 
Alma Mater different from the Alma 
Mater of the other fellow^. What we 
love about Carnegie is that "she is 
different.
In the first place, Carnegie is a 
young Institution; she has not yet 
grown stale and moss-covered, and 
it is to be hoped that a number of 
years will elapse before she does 
become tied up with rules, regula
tions and traditions. All of these 
are fine adjuncts and quite pleasing 
to the memory, but that is only an
other reason for taking extreme pre
caution when we introduce innova
tions that we hope shall lead to per
manent traditions of Carnegie.
There is in particular one point on 
which we should take pains, . and 
that is concerning .our name. No, 
there is no blemish on the name of 
Carnegie, and there is little fear 
that there will be any, but there Is 
one difficulty which should be re
moved.
The Carnegie Tartan receives ex
changes from most Of the College 
newspapers in the country. In going 
over these, it has often-times been 
pointed out that the name Tech" 
can mean any of an ever-increasing
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
SURVEYING CAMP TO BE
HELD AT DAVIS, W. VA.
(Continued From Pane One.) 
ning "foot ovor a rugged and woody 
mountain side. According to those 
who surveyed the territory last sum
mer, a grand and glorious time was 
had by all.
Accommodations will be had in the 
Blackwater Hotel. Meals are good, 
and sleeping fine. Sports are in evi
dence too.
Instructors will be Professors Dan
iels, Vierheller, and Stantona 
mighty good bunch of fellows, who 
know all the tactics of getting along 
with the students. Fact Is they, when 
getting out on this excursion of study, 
they are one of the fellows.
In Our Letter Box
FINAL DRAFT OF
SENIOR WEEK
Carnegie Recognition Button
Every student should have a Button or pin before vacation. They 
furnish the means of knowing Carnegie Men and Women.
Get yours now at the Alumni Office, where they are on display.
$1.00 in Rolled Gold------------------------------$2.00 in Solid Gold
(Continued From Pago One.)
Presbytorian Church of the United 
States.
Monday, June 0, the Seniors will 
play vigorous baseball In tho Carnogio Bowl at 10 a. m. At 5:30, the 
class will gatlior in tho Margarot 
Morrison Cafeteria for a suppor 
party. Aftor supper, tho Drama Dopar11110111 will prosont Harry Hamil
tons "From Now On" In tho Llttlo 
Theater.
Tuesday is (ho final day and tho 
most Important, for tho commence
ment oxoreisos will bo hold In tho 
Music Hall at 10:30 a. m. General 
Tasker 11. Bliss Is tho spoakor. Tho 
Deans will rooolvo In the foyer of the 
Music Hall aftor tho distribution of 
diplomas.
rRho Oommoncemont Bnll in the 
Arts Collogo will concludo our Sen
iors graduate days. I-Ilues Orch
estra of "Fort Pitt and "Willows" 
fame have been engagod for this occa
sion which, it is to be noted, will be 
informal in every particular. A large 
representation of undergraduates are 
expected to be present and bid fare
well to the outgoing class.
All fish are not caught on bent 
pins; some get caught on fraternity 
pins.
To the Editor of the Tartan,
Dear Sir,
I read with interest the suggestion 
in the Carnegie Tartan that the May 
Coronation for next year should take 
place on the steps of Machinery Hall, 
where it could be more adequately 
seen. The idea is excellent. May I 
add another. Let the movie camera 
men be given clearly to understand 
that they may photograph the proces
sion only before it reaches the line 
of spectators, and that close-ups may
be taken only at rehearsal. This year 
tho spectators and actors were half 
cliokod with tho smoky movie lights, 
and tho camera man actually had tho 
offrontory to mount tho stage while 
tho coromony was going on. That 
sort of thing absolutely robs tho cere
mony of Its solemnity and value both 
for actors and spectators.
Bollovo mo, It Is not a llttlo thing 
that you huvo for throo yoars pormittod your May Coronation to bo oxploitod for tho movies. Will you lot 
mo try to tell you why, quite person
ally and Informally? When I was 
asked to write a pageant or ritual for 
tho coronation of your May Queen 
I was told that this ceremony Is a 
comparatively new custom here, and 
that you all hoped It might develop 
into an important and beautiful tradi
tion in the life of Tech. To that end 
I wrote the poetic ritual. To that 
end tho actors gave their services, 
and the costume designers labored to 
make the costumes a joy to the be
holders. We all did our utmost to 
make the whole a ritual rather tnan 
a stunt. Even in rehearsals the spir
it was kept so perfectly that the
little altar boys loaned by the church 
for the occasion thought that Mr. Mc
Grath was a real priest and addressed 
him as Father. Then, when we 
come to the ceremony itself, we find 
our efforts robbed of all beauty and 
dignity by the preposterous liberties 
accorded to the movies and the cam
era men.
I am proud of being an undergrad
uate student at Tech, and I am more 
and not less loyal and appreciative 
because I already hold degress from 
two old and famous Institutions where 
many decades and even centuries 
havo ripened a rich harvest of beau
tiful and significant customs. I know 
how the beautiful ceremonials which 
aro handed down through generations 
bind tho hearts of men and women to 
tho deopest and highest ideals of their 
Alma Mator. I know how one remem
bers them, through all tho years ot 
ones aftor llfo, and how such memo
ries bind alumni together, more than 
tho momorlos of much yelling at 
games can ovor do.
Carnoglo Tech is still a young in
stitution. Its traditions are still to 
bo made. All the more because of its 
I splendid practicality of purpose, it 
, has grave need of idealism in i( stu| dent life. Last week a little group 
j of us worked, in a spirit of sincere 
j artistry, to give our Alma Mater a 
May ceremonial equal in beauty and 
; meaning to those of the older colj leges. And Carnegie Tech permitted 
. us to be exploited by the cheap pub
licity of the movies, and our efforts 
made in vain.
What will you do next year?
ALLENE GREGORY.
EXCHANGES
HIS COLLEGE BOOKS
(Courtesy of The Christian Science 
Monitor.)
His library is filled with costly
volumes,
Bound in limp leather, scrolled with 
burnished gold;
And there are manuscripts dim
scribes once lettered
Time-Lingered parchments, subtly 
iraiL and old;
And there are first editions that
have traveled 
From age-hushed places far across 
the sea
Besides the books that he himself 
has written.
Yet he regards all these with calm 
Indifferenco 
As things he has received for ample 
pay,
As if it would not very greatly 
matter
If someone came and took them all 
away.
But I have never seen more human 
fondness
Shown by a man for anything so 
small
As that he shows for one low shell 
of booklets,
Standing against his rich brocaded 
wall.
Those are his college books, old 
Latin grammars,
And "Horace who has lain those 
many years 
Marked in blue pencil, "Sapphls 
or "Alcaic,
Names that were once the cause of 
haunting fears.
I-Ioro "Ilomer" reBts, as tattered as 
a beggar,
Yet master still of Troy and Helens 
fate;
Here Poe conceals a faintly permumed letter,
Its paper and Its message out-ofdate;
While, on the fly-leaf of a Saxon 
primer,
A hand that since has done far 
better work 
Has drawn a picture oX a gaunt 
professor,
Scolding the sleepy, corpulent and 
class-shirk!
His library is filled with costly 
volumes,
But they are younger, brighter 
things than he;
And there are manuscripts dim 
scribes once lettered,
But they were old before he came 
to be;
And there are first editions, but 
their pages 
Harbor the memories of some other 
men
Then, too, the books that he himself 
has written,
But he was old and disillusioned 
then.
Always his college books have been 
his comrades!
They were the guides that led him 
down glad ways!
They are the keepers of his boylah 
secrets
And they alone hold youth's long, 
dream-tinged days.
LINES TO MY FATHER
number of institutions throughout 
the country. Let us enumerate a 
few: There is M. I. T., or Mas
sachusetts Tech; Wooster Tech; 
Rensselaer Tech; Georgia Tech; 
Rice Tech; California Tech; Ar
mour Tech. etc., etc. Nor is the 
name "Tech" confined to institutions 
of higher learning; in our near 
neighborhood we find Westinghouse 
Tech; Harrisburg Tech; Cleveland 
Tech; East Tech; West Tech; 
North Tech; South Tech; and inbetween Techs in all parts of the 
country.
It is, indeed, true that every little 
city has a Tech, thats all its own. 
Take a look at the educational news 
in the out-of-town papers, and you 
will realize what the objection to the 
name Tech" is.
We are proud of Carnegie, and 
proud that she is a technical institu
tion. The education we receive here 
is taken at par value by the world, 
and our alumni is our answer to all 
criticisms of technical education. 
That, however, does not prevent us 
from feeling that we should be 
known by the name of our founder, 
Carnegie, rather than by the com
mon, cognomen of several hundred 
other institutions.
The Plebes, when they enter, in 
the fall, are put through their paces 
and the attendant display of knowl
edge concerning their origin.
Would it not be a good plan to 
teach them that they do not hail 
from "Tech, but from Carnegie, NG 
that in answer to the query, "Whereyefjrom? we will -not be .met by an 
ambiguous answer, but rather by a 
clear-cut Carnegie.
Think it over, Sophs; start the 
ball a-rolllng, and push it along 
yourself. The upper-classmen are 
with you, and the result will be For 
The Good Of Carnegie.
The president of the Senior Class 
is to be taken to a sumptuous apart
ment, where he will be kept In luxury 
until the banquet, unless the faculty 
fird him. You see, the faculty will 
take the part of the rival class.
Yes, it will be a nice party. Hooray 
for the Senators!
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better one.Adv.
&Oakland Savings 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reaerv 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus.....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
8AFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
rp.-p-A LUM-N
$15.00 and $25.00 
IPGGpE| 1'0fW |ePr
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDINGS 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D^ 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible ClasB.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
I ltnoalt beside a tombstone, 
Flower-strewn the hallowed ground; 
O fatlior didst thou hear me 
.Close to tliy daiBied mound?
Didst feel tho fond tears falling 
Oer thee I loved the best?
Didst hoar the grief-wrung pleading 
That thou might find sweet rest?
And mother, dear, is sleeping 
Where fern and wild rose wave,
The woodbine softly creeping 
Above her distant grave.
What, though, the way be lonely, 
Afar, yon golden shore?
When waiting years are ended, 
Well meet to part no more.
Books
For pleasure, for im
provement, for collater
al reading. Stationery, 
Engraving, . Etchings, 
Prints.
Priscilla 6u%ias
Boo^- cTtyop
Schetileyjnlsr lln i onJntitJilda 
K KllsbujgJl y
Smiles fight 
back at

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 27, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
1w 4 r f-v A rp    T"* O
,PLAID ATHLETICS& j
TRACK TEAM CLOSES 
SUCCESSFUL SEASON
Two Victories, One Defeat, 
and Relay Championship 
is Record
In spite of pessimistic early predic
tions concerning the probable success 
of Coach Halfertys initial attempt to 
turn out a Skibo track team, very 
good results were obtained and the 
record for the season includes two 
victories in dual meets, one defeat, 
and the possession of the relay cham
pionship of technical schools for the 
fourth straight year.
Prospects were certainly not of tho 
best when Halferty took charge of the 
squad. The only men on the squad of 
proven ability were Dykeman and 
Jimmy Robertson and Pittman, but 
the latter was ineligible and it was 
not known certainly that Robertson 
would be able to devote much time to 
the track team.
Nevertheless, Halferty took hold 
with considerable spirit, and gradual
ly whipped into shape a team that 
was fairly representativenot a 
championship aggregation, but one 
that could be depended upon to work 
hard. And when the relay team won 
their race at the Penn Relays, follow\ 
rs of the sport began to look with j 
increasing respect upon the Plaid 
track team.
The first dual meet of the season 
was in competition with Allegheny 
College, an ancient sport rival of Car
negies. In this meet, the Sklbos 
showed marked superiority in the 
. running events, but the visitors scored 
. almost enough in the field and weight 
class to almost come through with a 
victory. As was expected, Dykeman 
took a first place in both the one and 
two mile runs. Kramer flashed a 
clean pair of heels in the quartermile and half-mile, while Humbert, by 
a burst of speed in the last 20 yards 
of the 220-yard dash, captured first 
place in that event. Luty, Mefort. 
and Bastian won the high jump, jave
lin throw, and broad jump, respect
ively. The final score of the meet 
was 64 ^ to 61%.
The Geneva dual meet was much 
easier for the Tartans than was the 
Allegheny meet. The final score in 
this was 74 to 43, with Geneva gettiL? only four first places. Robert
son, wile* had been absent during the 
first meet, was on hand and scored 
three first piufe.es himself. Carnegie 
took all three places in the two mile 
run and also in the high jump. Ge
neva partly retaliated by doing like
wise in the shot put. The individual 
star for the visitors was Butler, who 
took two firsts and a second place.
So far, everything was rosy for the 
Plaid. But Pitt was the next foe, and 
they breezed over with the avowed 
intention of taking first place in 
everything but the mile run. As sub
sequent events showed, they had cal
culated wrongly, for the Tartans took 
first place in the high hurdles, low 
hurdles, mile run, 440 yard run, and 
.the javelin throw. Carnegie was 
clearly outclassed in the weight 
events, the points being 40-14. But 
the honors were better distributed in 
the runs, the score being but 41-31,
NOTICE TO CANDIDATES
FOR FOOTBALL NEXT FALL;
All members of the varsity and | 
freshman football squads of last fall, j 
and also any new men wishing to go j 
out for football next fall, are request
ed to leave their names and summer 
addresses at the Graduate Managers 
office before going home at the end 
of the semester. These addresses 
will be necessary late in the summer 
when invitations are sent out to at
tend football training camp. Failure 
to leave your name and address might 
lean that you will not receive an in
vitation to camp. Do not put off, but 
visit the Graduate Managers office 
TODAY.
Assurance
Wherever there is a banking 
center this bank is known. 
Those travelers availing 
themselves of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers checks 
are assured of the recogni
tion which follows identifica
tion with well and favorably 
known banking interests.
Mellon National Bank
favor the Panthers. The final tally of 
the meet showed Pitt to be ahead by 
the score of 81 to 45. As in the pre
vious meet, Jimmy Robertson was the 
high point scorer for the Plaid, Dyke
man, Kramer, and Mefort following 
in the order named.
Carnegie had a number of men 
entered in the Pitt Intercollegiate? 
last Saturday, but the meet was called 
ofE on account of a heavy rain during 
the early part of the afternoon.
The summary for the season shows 
a slightly unfavorable balance in 
number of points1 won compared with 
opponents score is 185% while Car
negies total is 183%. Of the men on 
the team, three lead in the scoring 
with 26 points each. These are Rob
ertson, Kramer, and Dykeman. The 
next highest is Bastian, with 12. The 
other point scorers for the season are 
as follows: Bright, L. E. Smith, Me
fort, Luty, S'ullivan, Goodwin, Bohn, 
Humbert, Dyke, Christoff, Yoder, 
Cook, and Lustenberger.
Coach Halferty is to be congratu
lated uptfii the really surprising show
ing made by his team; and so is Cap
tain Jimmy Robertson. Manager El
lis Robertson certainly handled his 
job in fine style and was responsible 
for the smoothness with which the 
home meets were conducted. He was 
ably assisted by his first assistants, 
E. C. Frazier and C. M. Scrimgeour, 
and also by Cook, Hartwell, Hender
son and Depue, Sophomore candi
dates. A number of Plebes also did 
good work.
A meeting of all persons connected 
with the track team will be held in 
the near future for the purpose of 
electing a captain for next year.
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
PLAID RACQUETERS 
WIN OVER PANTHER
POLICY TO REMAIN THE SAME 
The new staff, announced last week, takes charge of the Tartan with 
this issue. Naturally, different men have different ideas, but when it comes 
to a question of policy, that is something else. Speaking for the athletic de
partment of the Tartan, the policy will be the same as during tho past year. 
No radical changes will be made. As in the past, we will strive to boost 
Carnegie Tech in general, and Carnegie Tech athletics in particular.
Another thing, we want to deal fairly with everyone, and not play favor
ites in anything that may arise. We shall be working for the good of the 
institute, not for any individual. In this respect the writer feels that he 
will be satisfied if he succeeds as well as his predecessor. Bunny Frazier 
was able to maintain the high standard of the Plaid Screen mainly becauso 
of his fairnesshis impartial treatment. We shall strive to do likewise.
VALUABLE ART COLLECTION
GIVEN TO UNIV. OF KANSAS
The half-million dollar art collec
tion of Mrs. W. B. Thayur has been 
recently given to the University of 
Kansas. Collected from all over the 
world, the collection comprises many 
rare objects of art, among them 
Oriental rugs, tapestries and shawls. 
The most important part of the col
lection are the textiles, which in
clude specimens of Chinese and 
Venetian embroidery, Samples, 
Spanish bead coverlets. Perhaps the 
most unique feature of the collection 
is an assortment of 600 dolls from al
most every country and designed to 
almost every fashion.
HeYou know, I like tho way you 
dance.
SheYes?
HeYou don't even blush.
Chew it after 
every meal
It stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
It makes yonr 
food do yoo more 
good. Note bow 
It relieves that stulfy feeling 
alter hearty eating.
^Whitens teeth, 
sweetens 
breath and 
S its the goody
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience unj 
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswnters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St, Buffalo, N. Y.
BKAGLETM
iJie master dtawing pencil
Get Extra Credits at HomeI
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modem Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociotogy, etc., are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, furnished on requestWrite today.
Sije UmberjSitp of Cijicago
93 ELLIS HALL CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
HIT THE FINALS HARD
The biggest meet of the year for Skibo athletes will be held next week 
when practically all the students assemble to take thoir final exams. This 
has been a difficult year both in athletics and in studies, but we are of the 
opinion that most of the men who are going to uphold the honor of Carnegie 
on athletic fields next' year will come through the ordeal next week with 
fiving colors. There will be no more athletic competition this semester, so 
the men can put all of their time and attention to passing their studies.
Lets do our part, boys, for we are sure the judges in the meet next week 
will do all they possibly can for us.
But Lose to Wash-Jeff for 
Second Time This Year 
by Score of 4-2
COLLEGE BASEBALL
Writh so much baseball in the air this time of the year, we cannot re
frain from bringing up again the old question, "Is baseball losing its hold 
on the colleges?
It seems logical to assume that since there are so Inany baseball teams, 
ranging from those of the big leagues down to the amateur and semi-pro 
sandlot teams, that interest in college baseball is not so great. The lack of 
attendance at some college baseball games and the fact that baseball is not 
a self-supporting sport at college is put forward as an argument that tho 
great national sport is a failure in colleges.
On the other hand, cannot it be said that since there aro so many base
ball teams of all kinds,, that it is a very popular sport everywhere? As to 
the lack of attendance, cannot that be due to some very good reason, such 
as lack of suitable playing fields near the school? The writer attended tho 
Pitt-Bucknell game early this Bpring, and despite the fact that Trees Field is 
a poor place to stage a big game, there was a large crowd present. When 
Carnegie played at West Virginia a large crowd turned out, even though it 
was a cloudy day and threatened rain.
Pitt, Penn State, West Virginia, Duquesne, Bethany and many other col
leges of the Tri-State district are putting a grea deal of stress on baseball 
this spring. Even though the attendance is not always there, the interest is, 
which can be attested by the amount of space given college baseball in the 
newspapers. To the casual observer baseball seems to eclipse track, and no 
one would claim that college track is a failure. Furthermore, football is 
usually the only college sport which pays for itself.
But what we had in mind all this time' was, will Carnegie have a basoball field suitable for playing big games next spring? It is practically certain 
that there will be a baseball team, since everyone concerned wnnts 0110. Wo 
feel it is the duty of the authorities here to secure a good playing field, or to 
build one.
SIGN UP FOR GOLF TOURNAMENT
The entries for the golf tournament have been coming into tho Grnduato 
Managers office very slowly. There are still several moro names needed 
before the tournament will be held. It is surprising that with prizes of a 
silver cup each to the winner and runner-up in tho tournament more stu
dents do not take advantage of this event. Surely thero are fifteen golf 
enthusiasts in school. Judging from tho number of golf outfits worn on the 
campus, there are plenty of-golfers. Come 011, boys, live up to your appoarances and enter the tournament!
TRACK SEASON FAIRLY SUCCESSFUL
Elsewhere on this page is a digest of the track season of 1921. It will 
be noted that Coach Halfertys proteges romped away with tho Technical 
School relay championship at the Ponn relays, and won two out of tho throo 
dual meets held this year. Every one of these meets was against oppononts 
of high caliber, so that the record of the Tartans is to bo commended. Coach 
Halferty started tho season with mediocre material, and he certainly has 
proved that he can get results.
So far as we can learn, tho feeling among tho athlotes and students 
is that thero should be more track meets held during tho year. Truo, tho 
Pitt intercolleglates was not held this yoar on account of rain, but ovon at 
that there could easily have been anothor dual moot oarlier In tho yoar. 
With the addition of some good mon from tho Froshman squad for noxt 
season, It is felt that tho schedule should bo mado moro appealing, so that an 
athlete should have something worth while working for, and not fool that ho 
would rather go out for somo other spring sport.
We would like to see Guy Halforty back again next year as coach. CMvon 
a longer schedule, together with tho addition of tho now material, Halforty 
will do even better than I10 did this year.
CRAFT0N NET MEN HAND 
PLEBES SECOND DEFEAT
After winning three straight, the 
Carnegie froshmen tennis team turns 
around and practically reverses tho 
score. In other words, this same 
team has now succeeded in losing two 
straights. The second came laBt Fri
day afternoon, when Crafton high 
school sent their tennis team to the 
Margaret Morrison courts and before 
departing annexed a 4-2 victory. They 
had rough going throughout, but 
through their steady playing man
aged to garner enough sets out of 
each match to cop the tournament. 
Three out of four singles, and half of 
the doubles completed the roster of 
their victories, making a total of four 
out of a possible six wins.
Rudisill, playing best man for the 
Freshmen, had hia hardest battle of 
the season in dusting off the cele
brated Kenneth Faulkner in two of 
three sets. Faulkner is the holder 
of the Harvard Cup, signifying he is 
the scholastic champion of the City 
of Pittsburgh. Faulkner presents a 
typical Maurice McLaughlin game, in 
which hard driving predominates. 
His service is a cannon-ball. But 
with all of these advantages he fell 
before the steady playing of Rudisill.
The remaining three Bingles went 
in rapid succession to Crafton. 
Coover and Hughes, both freshmen, 
while fighting their man hard for the 
verdict, finally fell in straight sets. 
Lohr, playing number four lost in 
three hard sets. The three Crafton 
men, Hardie, McClintock, and Cald
well deserve credit for their tenacity. 
They had to play good tennis to win 
over the plebe entries.
McWilliams who was held out of 
the singles on account of illness, 
doubled up with his teammate and 
won over Hardie and Caldwell in 
straight sets. Faulkner and McClin
tock of Crafton clinched the tourna 
ment for their school by taking over 
Coover and Hughes also in straight 
sets.
Summerles  Rudisill (Carnegie) 
defeated Faulkner (Craiton), 6-2, 5-7, 
6-4; Hardie (Crafton) defeated Coo
ver (Carnegie), 6-2, 7-5; McCUntock 
(Crafton) defeated Hughes (Car
negie), 8-6, 6-1; Caldwell (Carnegie) 
defeated Lohr (Carnegie), 6-2, 4-6,
6-4; McWilliams and Rudisill (Car
negie) defeated Hardie and Caldwell 
(Crafton), 6-4, 6-4; Faulkner and Mc
Clintock (Crafton) defeated Coover 
and Hughes (Carnegie), 6-1, 7-5.
Bobby's got a new siren for his 
car.
"Really? What became of the 
blonde one?
JANET PERRY, NEW
EDITOR OF SHILLING
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
work on tho papor this yoar, and, 
with hor splendid co-oporativo ability 
Bhe should bo ablo to work with Jorry 
to make noxt yoar tho Shillings most 
successful ono.
Besides tho literary ability which 
Sara Mao Everett demonstrated as 
Associate Editor of tho Carnoglo Tar
tan, she showed that she had roal 
business ability by tho fine way in 
which she handled tho advertising 
job this year. Anything which Sara 
Mae takes in hand is always carried 
out in a most successful manner and 
so we may look forward to a season 
of sound finances for the Shilling.
The Advertising Managers, job was 
put into the capable hands of Nora 
Willetts who has done Bome very good 
work this year on both the Tartan 
and the Shilling. Next year she will 
also have a chance to show her abil
ity as a member of the Thistle Staff. 
Nora always brings enthusiasm as 
well as ability to her work and this 
combination should enable her to fill 
the job most successfully.
Ellen Eyman and Rose Morin have 
done much to stimulate Interest in 
the Shilling, and as Circulation Man
agers they will have a splendid oppor
tunity of enlarging its field of activ
ity.
The rest of the staff is made up of 
girls who have taken a great inter
est in promoting the Shilling. The 
whole group should make a happy 
combination for next years work.
In speaking of the new staff we 
must not overlook the fact that thiB 
years staff accomplished a great deal 
while working against big odds and 
deserve to be complimented on the 
good results which they achieved.
CAMPUS COMMENT
Continued From Page One.) 
Freshmen who are coming in next 
year! Also, there aro those who 
think it is to bo held in tho Now 
Gym, and these people aro planning 
to stay homo on this account, but 
here Is whero you learn that It In 
to bo in Arts Foyer, for the price of 
$2.00.
So, you sec, ono should try to un
derstand what his collogo Is really 
doing. Don't bo on tho outside look
ing In through someone olsos eyes. 
Do your own noticing of things 
around the campus, and also draw 
your own conclusions; bo yourself! 
The most that any college can teach 
you is to be yourself, to stand on 
your own feet, to think your own 
thoughts, and to live your own life. 
In the midst of many, one learns to 
be alone.
No matter what else you fall to
Tech got sweet revnge in her last 
match with Pitt this year in the form 
of a 4-2 victory. Coach Finks classy 
aggregation never lost sight of the 
idea that they were out to win, and 
this they did by splitting even in the 
single matches, and taking both ends 
of the doubles.
Capt. Smith was matched against 
Silverman, the Pitt chap stroke art
ist, and though Harry was playing remnrkable tennis, he could not volley 
effectively against the low bounding 
stroke of the Pitt lead-off man.
Bowins, playing the best tennis he 
has played this, season, attended to 
Sperber with preciseness. The score 
was 6-3, 6-1. Bowins returned every 
thing that came his way, and the big 
blnde youth from Herron Hill prac
tically defeated himself.
The feature match of the afternoon 
was played by Beecher and Linton, in 
which Beecher took the hard driving, 
hard smashing Pitt man ovor in two 
sets, 6-4, 6-4. Boeclier played his 
usual brand of steady tennis and de
feated Linton in the samo manner lie 
has defeated every opponont he has 
met in intcr-collogiate tennis this 
year.
Shorty Cooper, the Pitt captain 
evened up the singles by defoatiug 
Pinky Rogers. Rogers could not get 
going against tho left hand shoots of 
the diminutive loader and ho was 
soon on the short end of a 6-2, 7-5 
match.
In the doubles Toch had everything 
their own way. Smith and Boochor 
defeating Silvorman and Linton, thoir 
Campus Week conquerors, by tho 
scoro of 6-3, 6-2. Bowins and Rogors 
easily dofoatod Coopor and Mowry in 
straight sets 6-2, 6-1. Summary:
SinglesSilvorman, Pitt, dofoatod 
'Smith, 6-1, 6-3; Bourns, Toch, de
feated Sperber, 6-3, 6-1; Boochor,
Tech. dofoatod Linton, 6-4, 6-4;
Coopor, Pitt, dofoatod Rogors, 6-2, 7-5.
DoublesS'mlth and Boochor, Toch, 
defeated Silvorman and Linton, 6-3, 
6-2; Bourns and Rogors, dofoatod 
Coopor and Mowry, 6-2, 6-1.
Wnsh-Jeff Wins Again.
Tho Wash-JofT tonnls team last 
woelc addod anothor victory to Its 
growing list. Thoir victim this time 
was our own Carnoglo toam. For tho 
second timo this year tho Rod and 
IMaclc nofmen took tho Tartans ovor 
by the scoro of 4-2. They aro tho 
only team to havo accomplished this 
foat this yoar, and probably will be 
tho only ones whon tho season closes. 
As on the previous, day against Pitt, 
Tech split ovon In tho singles 
matches, but lost both double 
matches.
Harry Smith wi*s not quito good 
enough for Stump FrodorloKf, but 
put up a wondorful fight, as tho 10-8, 
6-3 conni, indicates. It was a tough 
skirmish the wholo way through and 
tho superior ovorhoad work of Frederlchs was tho factor which gavo him 
victory.
Goorgo Boochor still Is undofeatod. 
Ho garnorod anothor victory from Mol 
Knoepp of W. & J. by tho scoro ot 
6-4, 6-i. Tho score would probably 
have beep worso had Goorgo boon as 
accurato as ho was on tho provlous 
day.
Capt. Nasor of W. & J. and Bourns 
of Toch, put on a long winded sot, 
which finally ended In a victory for 
tho Plaid youth by tho scoro of 10-8, 
6-2.
Moore was tho deciding factor In 
W. & J.s victory; winning his sin
gles match against Rogors and aiding 
materially in the doubles. Rogers 
gavo Mooro a bad hour of tennis, but 
the peculiar style of tho W. & J. 
player was too much for Pinkey. Tho 
final scoro was 6-4, 7-5.
In the doubles Frederichs and 
Moore played heads up tennis, defeat
ing Smith and Beecher 7-5, 6-2.
Lanky Hub Olmstead helped 
Knoepp considerably in defeating 
Bourns and Rogers, 6-4, 8-6.
The summary:
SinglesFriederich, W. & J., de
feated Smith, Tech, 10-8, 6-3; Beecher, 
Tech, defeated Knoepp, W. & J., 6-4, 
6-4; Bourns, Tech, defeated Naser, W. 
& J., 10-8, 6-2; Moore, W. & J., de 
feated Rogers, Tech, 6-4, 7-5.
DoublesFrlederichs and Moore, 
W. & J., defeated Smith and Beecher, 
Tech, 7-5, 6-2; Knoepp and Olmstead, 
W. & J., defeated Rogers and Bourns, 
Tech, 6-4, 8-6.
CHANGE SCENE OF
1924 DANCE FINALE
(Continued From Page One.) 
during its first appearance on the 
Carnegie campus.
The tickets for the ball havo been 
placed on sale throughout the four 
colleges. The cost of attendance at 
the Commencement Ball has been 
conservatively sot at two dollars per 
couple. Although this is the Com 
mencement Ball all undergraduates 
are Invited to help tho Seniors pass 
an onjoyablo last evening at Car
negie Toch.
Ioarn, If you learn this you havo not 
boon a failure, and don't kid your
self into thinking that you aro ono, 
pust becauso you dont pull a lot of 
A's, etc.! Understanding Is tho 
broadest thing any of us can ac
quire, and when ono speaks of a 
broadening of tho outlook, perhaps, 
tho unexpressed antecedent that all 
the talk refers to Is this same under
standing.
Learn to look at everything in 
more than one narrow little fashion, 
and you will be a success.
MEMBERS OF TRACK
SQUAD READ THIS
All track letter mon. members of 
the varsity track squad, managers 
and assistant managers are requested 
to bo on tho lookout for notices of a 
track mooting to be hold in tho near 
future at tho Woodlawn Club, the 
date being undocided yet. While tho 
primary purpose of this mooting is 
to elect a captain for tho track team 
next year, there will ho a big food, 
speeches, and a gouoral get-together 
and good time for everyone in any 
way connected with the varsity track 
team this year. Those invited should 
make it a point to be there, otherwise 
they will miss a good time.
OPEN GOLF TOURNAMENT 
WILL BE HELD THIS WEEK
The Carnegio Tech golf tournament 
which was open last week for outrios 
will be played off this week. The 
tournament will consist of a series of 
games to bo played during this wook 
and it will be finished by this Satur
day.
Each entry will notify the commit
tee in charge of tho tournament the 
day on which ho intonds to play his 
game, and the score must be handed 
In on tho samo day. Tho course to 
be played by each entry must bo 36 
holes.
The tournament is open for every
one who is rogisterod in tho Institute. 
There aro no eligibility rulosthat is, 
anyono whethor oligiblo or not is en
titled to play.
It is urged that moro ontrios bo 
filled and played this wook as wo 
want to have a golf toam, and this is 
about the only way thoro will bo of 
gottlng a line on tho mon.
Tho Soniors sure aro strutting 
some new material this yoar. First,, 
they make tho Sonlor Ball formal, 
then thoy hold tho banquet at tho 
llnlvorslty Club. Didnt know about 
it?
Horos tho dopo. Novor mind how 
wo got it. Slnco tho Plobo and Soph 
banquets aro to bo opon, tho Soniors 
have decided to make tholrs socrot.. 
The entortalnmont will bo smuggled 
Into the city past tho pollco, and tho 
Child Wolfaro Department.
The various guests of honor will hi 
picked up by masked mon in taxis at 
dark corners, ote. Oh yoB, tho Seniors 
aro going to havo a good time.
Maybo theyll kidnap Prof. Gocklor, 
just as thc-y used to take tho Presi
dents, and keep him In solitary eonllnoinent until tho evening of the 
meal.
JackShe has a mania for danc
ing.
Jill Isnt she satisfied with an or
dinary partner?
BELLEVUE DEFEATS 
SKIBO PLEBES, 10-5
Game is Featured by Loose 
Fielding  Plebes Make 
Fast Double Play
Last Wmlnesilny afternoon tbt> 
freshman baseball team journoyod to 
Bollevue and received a trouncing at 
tho hands of the Bellevue High nine, 
score 10-5.
It was a poorly played game, both 
sides making numerous costly errors. 
Bellovuo earned only two of their ton 
runs. The Carnoglo Plebes failed to 
come through in the pinches whon 
hits meant runs.
The redeeming featuro of the game 
was a lightning double play, Voglit to 
Bowsor to Turner. Aftor that play a 
decided improvement was noticed in 
the fielding of the plebes.
Lynch wont to the mound In thofourth and pitched good hall, while 
Turner, who replaced Lynch on tho 
initial sack, showed up well.
Tho Bollevue nine won tho cham
pionship of thoir section in the High 
School League, and thoir victory over 
the fast-going Carnegio plobe tossers 
showed just why they won tho cham
pionship. Tho linoup:
PlebesR.H. P.A.0.
Snyder, 3.................... 11 311
Lynch, 1-p ................ 11 310
. 01 631
. 00 121
(I0 200
, 12 321
. 21 001
11 100
Escher, p-L................ .00 040
, 00 509
Totals .................... 57 2413s
BellovuoIt.H. P.A.E.
1 401
0 200
. 00 020
1 !)30
, 13 100
Bovlngton, r............... 00 110
Nowhurif, fl-p............. 10 111
RWDPCNGGPWY I,,,,,,,,,,,,. 22 501
Taylor, 1.................... 02 200
Miller, 3....................?,I 000
Lowry, 2-p................. 00 210
Totals ...................lit.10 2783
1 02 0 00-r.
Bellovuo ..........4 2 I0 03 0 0io
Two-baso hitsJoo, Lynch, Mil
ler, Byers, Throo-baito hits 8ehrlver, 
Stoner. First base on hallsOff 10schor 5, off Lowry 1. Struck outBy 
Lowry 4, by Nowburn 4, by ICschor 4. 
by LynOh 3. Umpire Tlrulmugh.
It sums up like this:
Firstthe very best Burley tobacco that 
old Kentucky grows, thenevery single bit 
of it thorouglily ayed in wood to take out the 
raw strength and make it mild and mellow, arid 
give it a fine flavor.
Thats what you get when you ask for 
Velvet Tobacco. Rememberaged in wood.
Ijooktt & Mteiw Ton Anco Co.
STUDENTS ATTENTION!
THE PLACE YOU HAVE BEEN 
LOOKING FOR has now OPENED
THE SCHENLEY COFFEE SHOP 
and DELICATESSEN
3957 Forbes Street
The menu offers a splendid variety of well 
cooked food at reasonable prices
COME AND BE CONVINCED
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANr----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ALUMNI PAGE | 1 '
THE TELESCOPE
The new staff has now been in
stalled In their places on the Carnegie 
Tartan and we sincerely hope to 1111 
those places tin competently and as 
faithfully as the retiring staff has 
done. The purpose of the Carnegie 
Tartan is to coment the feelings of 
love and loyalty between the admin
istration, faculty, alumni and students 
for the good Carnegie. A strong 
bond of kinship exists between the 
student body and the alumni of Car
ole, because the Carnegie Tartan 1s 
tbo only college paper In the country, 
wo far as we know, in which these two 
organizations are linked together by 
moans of an Alumni Pag6.
The Alumni Editor has, in the past, 
endeavored to amalgamate student 
and alumni interests by creating a 
common ground upon which they 
both could meet. The students aro 
interested in what the alumni are do
ing, just as the alumni are curious 
about. what the students aro doing. 
The students as well as the alumni 
want to know what the different 
clans are accomplishing, and the 
Alumni Page is the medium for this 
exchange. Tlio new editor will try 
lo keep this space up to tho standard 
of universal interest as the retiring 
editor has done.
We want the co-operation of the
clans. One of tho most discouraging 
difficulties wo havo to face is that 
clan news Js receivod so long after 
clan meetings or social functions aro 
held that the news is too stale to bo 
of much value. Wo make an earnest 
plea for advance notices of alumni 
and clan affairs. Do not depend upon 
your clan secretary to send us the 
dope; he may bo too busy. Take it 
upon yourself to send it. This is 
your page and we would'be glad to 
hoar from you.
Wo would lilto also to make ;i sug
gestion that would do much to spread 
the fame of Carnegie Tech. About 
this time of year, tho Carnegie Li
braries of the country put on an ex
hibition of pictures, booklets, and cir
culars of tho Various colleges in the 
United States. Nearly all colleges 
are representedas they should be 
but is Carnegie displayed in your 
homo town? If not, why not? If 
you aro a loyal alumnus, a true son 
of Dear Old Tech, you will find out 
If Carnegie is offered to the public 
eye, and If she has as prominent a 
place in the front row.
About all else we want the alumni 
to feel that although they are no 
longer AT Carnegie, they are vitally 
and Inseparably a part OF Carnegie 
Tech.
ALUMNAE CLUB HAS 
ITS ANNUAL DINNER
1917 Graduate Heads TUDEND MAKCPWDMNP EGA 
N. Y. Univ. Dramats! S00N mARRI1;D
i "Mrs. CJeorge Sharman announces Prof. A. B. Williamson Will tn.- engagement and approaching
_ . _ marriage of her daughter, GeorginaAssutr.e Duties in rail Login; to Mr. Russell Edgar Moon,
____________ both' of Des Moines, la. The wedA member of tbo 1917 Bniafiutlrig dl W|I1J10 v of Ju",! ", , Miss Sharman is a graduate ofclaim ot Carnegie bnu boon aolociod | N(l,.|h I||gh Do MoIi,oh, w,
as head of the dramatics department | Hhe was 1 member of Omega Kappa
of tho New York University. Prof. A. j Kappa Sorority.
Mr. Moon entered the College of 
Industries in 1992, taking a course 
in printing. Returning to Ills home 
in Des Moines, I10 entered the em
ploy of the Moon Engraving Com
pany, with whom he is now located 
In the capacity of manager. Mr.
Moon has been quite successful at 
printing and engraving. Even though 
he spent only one year ^it school he 
has been able to couple his training 
with experience and put out liigliB. Williamson at present beud of the 
Public Speaking Department of Mi
ami University will assume his new 
duties at tho beginning of the fall 
term.
On leaving Carnegie in 1I17 after 
having completed the course in 
Drama in the College of Fine Arts,
Prof. Williamson joinod the army as 
a member of the 20th Infantry. After 
tlio signing pf the armistice lie was 
placed In charge of several army.
hows Intended to dispel the unrest w<,rk*
prevalent at the close of the war. He| Mr. Moon and his wife plan to 
later entered post-graduate work In  -make their home in Des Moines. 
Columbia University and was appoint.
STUDENTS MAKE CAMPUS
WEEK GREAT SUCCESS
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Kuhn, Chairman; I). II. Gatwalls, .1. ,T. 
Galvin, Woppner, Johnson, Ootid, 
Wldlly, It. W. Goetz, W. II. Justice, 
C. Sohrnodor, U. li). Hughes, Llbaw. 
Athletics OomnilttooRussell Rolachievement of Prof. Williamson will j ler, Chairman; Miss Dorothy Cluilflorvo to accentuate the progress that mors, Douglas Shurlcy, Ellis RobertIs being made. sop, T. A. .lones.
------------------------ Quayileiitlon Committee (!. Slye,
MOTOR TRANSPORT UNIT , Chairman; Mary Stuemplle, D, Gar: her, Garay Procter, Strong, Vernon 
fluid Ino.
ed head of the Miami dramatic facul
ty in 1920.
Carnegie students will undoubtedly 
ho surprised to hear of the rapid rise 
of a graduate to fill a pest such as 
this. The work of the Drama De
partment. In developing our men is 
overy day becoming more and more 
iiotlceablo to the outside worldtiie
WILL LEAVE CARNEGIE1
Senior Honorary Society Pro
poses a Donation to Parry 
Memorial
(Continued From Iago One.) 
he the last ollloors commissioned .in 
the motor transport division of the 
Quartermasters Corps as all units 
throughout the country are being 
withdrawn from colleges that now 
havo the motor unit.
All R, O. T. C, men who are now 
mnmhors of the motor transport unit 
will be absorbed by the corps of onlilneors to continue their Instruction 
till tho course is completed.
Tho motor transport equipment 
now hero will in all probability be 
old or shipped to tho nearest motor 
transport supply depot. Of tile motor 
transport personnel, Serg. Smith no 
doubt will be transferred back to 
field duty and Capt. Knight is await
ing orders directing him to sail from 
Now York about September 11, for 
San Francisco, through the Panama 
canal. From there he will board the 
army transport sailing October 1 for 
duty in the Philippine Islands.
In connection with Campus Week 
activities,. there was hold on Friday 
evening, May 10, a meeting of the 
Alumnae of A. E. C. H., at dinner at 
the College Club. Twenty-two guests 
were present, representing alumnae 
from 1910 on, bringing together some 
very romantic experiences, from 
Frances Willis Collett, who lias 
traveled once and a half around the 
globe since her last appearance on 
the Campus, to Eleanor McCarson 
Jackson's letter of regret from the 
hospital, her excuse being a new 
daughter, born May 5.
Little has ever been said In the 
columns of Carnegie Tech's papers 
about A. E. C. H. It was a selfporpetuutlng Senior Honor Society, 
consisting usually of live girls in 
each Senior class of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Collegethe first 
group, in 1910, having been chosen 
by an informal vote as to the live 
girls who were doing most in their 
class to promote Carnegie Tech 
spirit, and were proving their leader
ship in so doing. Identity was kept 
secret until the end of the year, be
cause according to the plan 0/ this 
organization, these girls should work 
with no incentive of glory or special 
distinction for what they are doing. 
Solf-sacrlllce and self-renunciation 
were always among the leading 
motives of tho society.
The matter of chief interest com
ing out ,ol the meeting 011 Friday, 
was the pledging of $1,000 for the 
Parry Memorial Book Fund. Miss 
Frances Parry was an honorary char
ter member of A. E. C. H., and her 
influence upon its life and activities 
will last as long as the organization. 
Each member has pledged to earn 
$10 a. year over a period of three 
years, and studentB now in college, 
as well as alumnae, will be given 
an opportunity to aid I11 this worthy 
undertaking.
Frances Willis Collett, 1917, told 
tho group the history of the clothes 
She worea yellow Bengalese silk 
dross, the JJCPS of which was drawn 
through real jade rings, all from 
India, \vlth a shimmering scarf from 
Cairo, Egypt; and then she offered 
to send somo of the beautiful bits 
which she has collected in the 
Orient, for n raffle to aid the fund. 
Those objects will be exhibited In 
the Margaret Morrison building, and 
tho society hopes they will bring a 
substantial sum.
Those present at the dinner were 
Mrs. Golds. McClelland Heningor, 
class of 1910, of Findlay, O.; Mrs, 
Frances Willis Collett, of Soars.dale, 
N. Y.; Mrs. Jtlrriml Pruyno Ralston Of 
Dubois; Mrs. Gall Sellers Fetko and 
Mrs. Margarot WIrth Towl of the
8P.AL EMPLOYMENT ARNQI ALUMNUS
1. Master MechanicWith a Pittsburgh industry. Man about twenty; A [\ Mfl P P[ IFF WORK 
eight years of age with experience ; aiL/inu 1VLI'iA^1 VV WiVIV 
in repairing hydraulic presses, pumps,
JlJts and compressors. Salary $225- 
$250. Call or wire Alumni Office at 
onceimmediate action.
2. Pittsburgh manufacturer wants j 
several men for laying out plate and 
boiler work; also several detailers.
Alumni-Student Placement Bureau, G.
L. Til brook.
CLAN NEWS
Capt. Geo. Dennis Working 
on Aid in Malaria District, 
Corinth, Greece
PHILADELPHIA CARNEGIE CLAN
The Philadelphia Carnegie Clan 
held their annual dinner dance in the 
Green Room of the Hotel Adelphia on 
Saturday evening, May tenth. A very 
delicious menu was served. Between 
courses there was most enthusiastic 
singing of Tech  songs as well as 
many popular airs. Miss Jennie Canosa, one of Philadelphias promising 
young soloists entertained the party 
with several selections.
There was a short business meet
ing at which time officers were elect
ed for the ensuing year. They are: 
President, Paul Eminel; Vice Presi
dent, Lynn Exline; Secretary-Treasurer, Dorothea Steinmacher.
Dr. Baker, who was guest of hon
or, gave a most interesting talk about 
the activities of the school during the 
past year, tlio changes in.faculty for 
the coming year and Campus Week. 
Members of the New York and Har
risburg Clans gave short talks.. Sev
eral new members were welcomed 
Into the Clan.
After dinner there was a dance. 
Several members of the Adelphia 
Orchestra furnished very peppy mu
sic. The number of people present 
was very much below expepctatione I 
due to the prevalence of so many 
childish diseases, such as measles 
and mumps. However, it was a very 
fine party. Among those present 
were: Dr. Baker, Mr. and Mrs. Lynn 
Exline, Mr. John Charles, Mr. and 
Mrs. Henry S'cliaub, Mr. and Mrs. 
Ralpph Couldron, Mr. and Mrs. M. D. 
Scott, Miss Jennie Canosa. Miss Mary 
Frances Murray, Miss Mary Rhoads, 
Miss Eloise McMahn, Miss Catherine 
Hays, Miss Mabel Beeley, Mr. Fran
cis Canosa, Mr. Reginald, . Mr. John 
Todd, Mr./ Walt Giles, Mr. Jack Fer
guson, Mr. William Burke, Mr. James 
Lea, Dr. Herman Albrecht, Mr. Louis 
Heyl and Mr. .lohii Bailey.
LOS ANGELES CARNEGIE CLAN
The April meeting of the Lios An
gelos Clan was arranged by n com
mittee composed of Mr. G. II. Knapp, 
Mr. D. M. Mason and Mr. R. M. Cros
by. After attending the Criterion 
Theater, the members of the (fian 
went lo the Italian Village Cafe. Fol
lowing supper an interesting business 
meeting, which was presided over by 
the new president, David M. Mason, 
was hold. It, was voted to send twen 
ty-flyo cents, for each member of the 
Semi j Clan present to the Haaren Memorial 
Grouse, Mrs. Molen llosworth Orr, Fund,
Miss Ruehol Boatty and Miss FlorTlio Los Angelos Clan is now estab'
class of I!1 IS; ! Hnliod on a substantial basis and theeneo Doehtol ol' fin 
Miss Remico Krugar,' Mrs. lOllnor 
Mellon West, Miss Dorothy Hurlow 
of Cleveland unii Miss Salome 
Stamm of class of 1919; Miss Mary 
Dochtol or tho your 11)20; Mrs. Mli
ti rod Spencer, Miss Agnes Itnsscll 
and Miss Miu'garot Grillili of 1921; 
and Miss Ray Fine, Miss Lllllan 
Cowan and Miss Dorothy Grant of 
tho class of 192:1. M'ho lust tlireo 
uainos represent th last group tliut 
was Inltlatod luto Ilio A. IO. C. II.
Olllcers of ilio Allumine Chapter of 
A. E. C. II. are: Chairman, Margaret .
! ehairmnii, Dorothy 
socretury-treasurer, Salomo
members oxpoet. to do somo good 
work for Carnegie as well as hav 
some Interesting evenings together.
Those who attended tho April meet
ing aro: Mr. .1. Harold Weller, Mr,
<. It. Wolfor, Mr. Wolby II. Hudson, 
Mr. I). M. Mason, Mr. Oscar Salkiiv, 
Mr. Walter Marplo, Mr. L. T. Young, 
Mr. and Mrs. J. 11. Knapp, Mr. C. M. 
Crawford, Mr. 10. D Stonerod, Mr. J. 
P. Mall and Mr. II. M. Crosby.
Mr. Crosby is secretary of the Clan 
and lives at 112 Verdun Avenue, R. 
D. No. 7, Los Angeles, California.
Alumni Registrations Campus Week 1924
ilass of 1917; Mrs. HelenSwoepstnlowi Committee*Wm. Fen.
II, Chairman; Win, F, Ivoppos, Vor 
non L, Wendlandt, Albert 'Thomas, L,
F. Vogt.
SwoopstakouMary Spoors, Chair 
man; Murgarot Taylor, Mary O'Brien,
Qotilllkmtlon Mary Stuompllo,
Chairman; Grace Glounon, Virginia 
Wallis.
OproulUlon-- Dorothy Weber, Chair
man; Dorothy Diamond, lOllcn .Iflyoman, .lanet RPPPPUY Hill Adair.
Girls* AthleticsDorothy Chalmers,
Chairman; Margaret Marliey, Base
ball; Eleanor Graver, Alumnae Represontatlve for Volley Ball; Geraldine 
Corbett, Tennis.
Banquet  Francos McClymonds, I Wlrth Towl; vl 
Chairman; Eleanor Mecklenborg, j Grant;
Eleanor Relsmoyer, Bertha Orhinan. Stamm.
Sheri 11, Chairman; Mary Quick; Ger-j Nut Chittle: Charles reminds me j RLCLIVES SCHOLARSHIPS 
aldine Corbett, 'Elizabeth Lindsay. of a boa-conatrictor.
------------------------I Flipper: "Hows that, Nut?
. That tight rope walker was a good Chittie: "He squeezes you
girl, but she fell. Helit.
i FRANK E. SWINDELLS 21
1 What a whale of a difference 
just a few cents make ! 
the difference 
between just an ordinary cigarette 
andFATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
Information has, just come to Car
negie Tech of an honor conferred up
on a former Carnegie student by the 
University of Pennsylvania. Frank 
E. Swindells, class of 21, who spe
cialized in Chemistry at Carnegie has 
just been awarded a fellowship at 
the University of Pennsylvania where 
he continued his studies in that sub
ject. The announcement was made 
by Josiali H. Penniman, president of 
the University, of the fifty-six fellow
ships and scholarships in the Grad
uate School for the academic year of 
1924-2t). Mr. Swendell is to be con
gratulated upon receiving this high 
honor, which reflects, through him, 
glory to his Alma Mater,. Carnegie 
Tech. The Graduate School of the 
University has shown an unprecedent
ed growth within the last year. The 
students come from more than one 
hundred and seventy institutions of 
learning throughout tho world, rep
resenting, forty states of the Union 
and fourtoen foreign countries.
To Capt. George H. Dennis, a 
Carnegie Tech graduate, and Dr. J.
K. Marden of Boston, a graduate of 
Michigan University and of Dart
mouth, are given the credit in a re
port received here from Corinth, 
Greece, for the freeing of this city 
of Ancient Greece from its centuriesI old curse of malaria. The report 
containing the account of the work 
conducted in Corinth by the former 
Carnegie student and the Boston 
physicianwas received by E. G. 
Chreiman, executive secretary of the 
Pittsburgh district, Near-East Re
lief.
Capt. Dennis, whose home is in 
Halowell, Maine, was graduated from 
Carnegie Institute of Technology in 
1920, receiving his B. S. degree from 
the College of Industries. He joined 
the American Expeditionery Forces 
after leaving the local institution. At 
the close of the war, he remained in 
Europe and joined the Near East Re
lief. After two years of field work 
with this organization he was as
signed with Dr. Marden to Corinth, 
Greece, in an effort to rid the city 
of malaria, which had annually been 
the cause of many deaths of its citi
zens.
The report of the success of the j 1909 
undertaking by the American ex
perts says, in part: "The city of
Corinth, rich commercial metropolis 
of ancient Greece, will soon be freed 
from its centuries-old curse of ma
laria when the joint plans of an 
American sanitary engineer and an 
American physician are carried out.
"These plans, tne result or con
siderable study by the American ex
perts, involve little more than a 
combination of the methods of a 
Spring Clean-Up Week, which in 
recent years' has become popular in 
many American municipalities, to
gether with the construction of 
drainage canals similar to those that 
in the past decade have made the 
Jersey Mosquito more of a myth 
than a reality.
Malaria has always been preva
lent in the Levant. In some regions 
it has taken on a more virulent form 
than in others and annually has been 
the cause of a considerable number 
of deaths. Corinth has been just 
such a place and thousands of sum
mer tourists for this reason have 
been frightened off from historic 
ruins which in beauty and interest 
are perhaps unsurpassed anywhere 
in Greece.
"I'he present campaign comes, in
directly, .as a result of the Smyrna 
disaster and subsequent persecution 
of Greeks in Turkey. When these 
people begun their mad flight out of 
Nationalist territory, Greece opened 
her doors to them. A million and 
quarter refugees Hocked Into a coun
try whose total population at that 
time did not exceed much more than 
live minion.
"Housing, of course, was at a 
premium. The refugees were quar
tered everywhere, even the  former 
royal palace in Athens was thrown 
open to receive its quota. Others 
WGi'e sheltered in improvised camps, 
in military baracks, and under al
most every conceivable kind of shel
ter. Many were out under the open 
sky.
"This educational campaign will 
include Instructions in the ue of 
mosquito netting, equipment  with 
which the, modern Corinthians are 
little acquainted. Another feature of 
the war on malaria will be the use 
of public health service nurse, an
other innovation in Corinth. A group 
of older orphan girls, trained in 
American orphanage hospital trainj ing schools, are being sent down to 
Athens for this prupose. Part of 
their task will be to teach the people 
the proper use of quinine. Four 
municipal inspectors have been ap
pointed by the city for aid in the 
clean-up.
Number Registered FromCitiesRe
Having Clans:
. . 11908
. . 31909
Chicago ............................... 51910
Cleveland ............................ . 81911
Erie ...................................... . 11912
Harrisburg ......................... 21913
Johnstown .......................... . 11914
Los Angeles ...................... . 11915New York .......................... . 21916Norfolk ................................ . 11917
Philadelphia ....................... 61918
. .2081919
Washington ......................... 41920
Youngstown ...................... . 51921---1922
2481923
Number Registered FromVari-1924
ous States (exclusiveof1925
cities having Clasn)192C
Ohio............................................ 16
Pennsylvania ...........................222
Maryland .................................. 8
New; Jersey................................... 6
New York ..............'............... 6
Indiana............................................. 8
West Virginia ............................... 7
Michigan ................................ l
Illinois ............................................. 2
Massachusetts ....................... 1
le. c ------
1 277
................................. 13
................................. 13
.................................. 11................... 0
! 29
................................. 24
................................. 24
................................. 26
................................. 26
................................. 19
................................. 16
................................. 34
................................. 49
................................. 79
.....................................105
................................. 6................... 1
................................. 4
494
No. class entered in register. 31
Total number registered___525
Report of M. M. Alumnae Campaign
Following is a report of the paid-up membership campaign. Get your 
classmates to pay up for next year. Notices will be sent out from the 
Alumni office in a month or so. Get the jump on the class of 1919!
No. inNo. Paid
Class ClassUp UnpaidPercentageRank
241660T1910............................................. 29101925.6141911............................................. 37153221.9151912........................................... 4014263513
6842.810-1914............................................. 30121840121915............................................. 37221559.4&1916............................................. 26111542.3111917............................................. 35221362.8&182047.391919............................................. 4030107511920............................................. 49301961.26-1921............................................. 46321569.421922............................................. 60402068.341923............................................. 75502566.63
EVERYTHING ALL RIGHTcern. Hethen turned tothepedes-Bumping into a pedestrian, a tourtrian andasked: "Areyouinsur-ist slightly dented a fender.ed?
IiiBtantly stopping the car, the ocYes.
cupant climbed out and proceeded toGood.So isthe car.-Louisvilleexamine the machine with great con-Courier-Journal.
L.F.L.M.M.A. HOLD MEET 
IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF.
SENIORS TO END STAY
ON CAMPUS UNIVERSITY
(Continued From Pago One.)
10 a. m. Monday. At this tlmo the 
Senior men will bo tho opponents of 
tho Senior women in baseball. It is 
rumored that the girls have boen 
holding secret batting practice for 
this world-lamed event. It is said 
theyhave perfected tho doublesqueeze play. The respectivo clieering sections are already being organ
ized.
The class will have supper in the 
Margaret Morrison Cafeteria and then 
close the day with a theater party ot 
the Little Theater.
The culmination of Senior Week
A cry has come from the far 
West! That old Carnegie spirit has 
once again bridged the distance and 
broken the silence to bring us news 
from California. On Saturday, May 
10, the L. F. L. M. M. A., meaning 
the Loyalest Farthest Living Mar
garet Morrison Alumnae, gathered 
together at the home of Miss Betty 
Finkelhor, 60S S. Hobart street, Los 
Angeles, California. These faithful 
and far-traveled daughters of Car
negie enjoyed an afternoon of Mali 
Jong and Bridge, and pledged a con
tribution to the Margaret Morrison 
Scholarship Fund. Though the size 
( of the gathering was slightly miniaj ture, the quality of Carnegie Spirit 
was of .sufficiently high grade to 
cover any deficiency in numbers. 
Those present wero Mary Williams, 
Ida Richter Welfer, Irone I-Ieneke 
Hoffman, Helen Hnrbison Knapp, 
Elizabeth Stevenson, Mrs. Steele, 
Betty and Florence Finkelhor.
Andrew Carnegie, on one occasion, 
was asked which he considered tho 
most important factor in industrylabor, capital or brains?
Carnegie quickly replied, with a 
merry twinkle in his eye: "Which
is the most important of a threelegged stool?Judge.
What could be sweeter? said the 
maniac, as he stirred the spoonful of 
wall be the Commencement Ball in. saccharine succinctly into his steamthe Arts Foyer Tuesday evening. I ing cup of coffee.
ffWeeksTrip  to Europe
for $342*8
Made by Princeton. Instructor 
Including Round Trip Steamship Fare 
and All Expenses /or 34 days inEurope
T
his trip is fully described 
in a booklet written by 
Professor Nylander of 
Princeton University which 
gives the complete itinerary 
and itemized expenses. It 
will be sent you upon re
ceipt of the coupon below.
Also the folder Whats 
Going on in Europe in 
1924 and illustrated liter
ature about the United States Lines.
Steamship Fare$85 and up
Thousands of students and teachers are sailing for Europe 
this summer in the third class cabins of United States Lines' 
ships. Separate exclusive space has been reserved on the
S. S. President Harding - June 24th 
S. S. Republic - - - July 2nd 
S. S. Leviathan - - - July 5th
Similar reservations have been made on other eastbound 
ships and also on westbound ships (including the Leviathan) 
for your return.
College women are invited partic
ularly to make reservations on the 
S. S. Republic sailing July 2 as 
special third cabin accommoda
tions are available under proper 
chaperonage. Women will also 
be especially chaperoned on the 
other ships listed above and on 
the return trips.
Third Class Cabin on United States 
Lines* Ships Is Not Steerage 
Third class cabins on these ships 
accommodate 2, 4 or 6 persons.
They are clean, airy and comfort
able. The berths have soft, sani
tary mattresses and clean linen;
Campus opepun tmaun
Jenkins Arcade Smithfield 1995 Pittsburgh
or Tour Local Agent 
Mattaulntr Operators forUNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD
Send 
the 
Coupon
water and other conveniences 
in each stateroom. The food is 
wholesome, appetizingand plenti
ful and service of the best. Public 
rooms are large and inviting. 
Ample deck space is provided for 
games and dances. Daily concerts 
are a feature of the voyage.
This is your chance to enjoy the 
cultural and educational advan
tages of Europe at the lowest cost 
possible in years. Dozens of in
ternational events are taking place 
in Europe this summer including 
the Olympic games and the 
British Empire Exhibition.
INFORMATION BLANK
United Stntcs Lines CT frc6 EX 15 Bdwny. N.Y. 
Please send me without obligation the booklets and 
literature describing the low price trips to Europe.
Cty