VOL. 46No. 12TUES., DEC. 16, 1952CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Vacation
Christmas vacation begins 
for Carnegie students follow
ing the last class on Friday, 
December 19. Classes will re
sume on Monday, January 5, 
1953.
The next issue of the TAR
TAN will be published on 
Tuesday, January 13. This 
will be published on Tuesday, 
January 13. This will be the 
last issue of the semester.
Library Hours
The library has announced 
that Main and all branches 
will be closed on December 24, 
25, 31, and January 1. Main 
and Science libraries will be 
open Monday through Friday 
8:30-5:00 and Saturday 9:00- 12:00.
Scot Selects 
Editorial Staff
Dean Schaefer Leaving Carnegie
Many Groups Honor Dean
by Pat Maue 4
With the coming of Christmas vacation, Carnegie Tech will lose 
a prominent and beloved personalityDean Joan Schaefer. Mrs. 
Schaefer is leaving on December 19 to join her husband, who has 
been at the University of Southern California since September. Mr. 
Schaefer, former director of the*
Carnegie Tech Kiltie band, is now ' I
dir^^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
never too busy to give a bright 
smile and cheery greeting to all 
whom she passes on the cut or 
In Morewood.
In addition to acting as counselnity presented her with a sweetlor and advisor, she has played an heart pin, the Sigma Nu fraternity 
important role in the execution of gave a Christmas dinner in her 
campus social functions, and in honor, and Beta Theta Pi honored 
directing the rushing activities of Dean Schaefer with a farewell 
the sororities. dinner and presented her with a
Many Parties silver bracelet. In addition to othAs a final farewell gesture, er fraternity and sorority activimany parties, teas, luncheons, and ties, PanHell and Mortar Board 
dinners have been given in her also honored her at farewell parhonor. The Kappa Sigma fratertie.
T utoring
Again this semester, the 
members of Tau Beta Pi, na
tional engineering honorary, 
will sponsor a free tutoring 
program for Tech students.
The courses in which tutor
ing will be offered are S-101, 
S-221, S-231, S-403, and S-404. 
In order to procure tutoring 
service, - call Bob Helmbold at 
MU 1-1605 or MU 2-8768.
If there Is sufficient demand 
for them, other courses will be 
tutored.
Dean Schaefer
Leaving Tech this week
l/fear 
the Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 16, 1952
is not to say that the middle east has ceased to be a vital area in 
this struggle; Iraq, for example, has recently been causing Britain 
serious difficulties, while India has implied that France is not any 
too welcome in Pondicherry. But for the moment Africa has taken 
the limelight.
In the United Nations this country had faced the dilemma of 
whether to support Britain and alienate Iran or support Iran and 
alienate Britain. We faced the same predicament in the present case, 
though to lesser degree in South Africa and Kenya than in French 
Africa. If our government supported the French desire to exclude 
Tunisias grievances from the U. N. debate, it would incur the ill 
Will of the Moslem world.
United States On Fence
If, on the other hand, we voted against France in this matter, 
we would run the risk of seeing our relations with that country 
grow tenser than they already are. In the former case we could 
hardly afford to jeopardize our prestige with the Moslems, which 
has recently been boosted by our air lift of pilgrim Moslems to Mecca, 
or to see our air bases in northwestern Africa surrounded by a po
tentially hostile population. In the latter case we would invite the
Your Trip Home h
THE INEXPENSIVE WAV
Va
u jaoce bus
Serving Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia and West Virginia from
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
See why you can be sure you get the deal 
you deserve here. See how you get more with 
Chevrolet...pay less with our low prices.
See for yourself...
Theres MO V&lue libe 
CHEVROLET Value!
NO WEATHER OR TRAFFIC
delays to make you miss holidatea 
 . . when you go home by safe, 
dependable train. Its a headstart 
on vacation fun, traveling with 
friends... in roomy comfort with 
swell dining car meals!
LOWEST PtICED IN ITS REID!
This beautiful Stylelin* Do Lux* 4-Door Sedan lists 
for less than any comparable model in its fMtf. 
( Continuation of standard equipment and trim Illustrated it dependent on availability of mat fiat.)
LOO WEST PtI CSDN 
RWDTE TEOLO O!FMILDZO 
FEOZ*tMOT oOSTI*OL
ITS A GIFT I If you and two 
friends go heme and return to
gether . . . Group Coaeh Plan 
tickets save you each up to 25% 
of the regular round-trip coach 
fares. Or a group of 25 or more 
can each save up to 2&%! Head 
home in the same direction at the 
same time. After the holiday*, 
return separately if you wish on 
this larger Group Coach Plan.
ftSK YOUR RAILROAD TICKET AGENT 
ABOUT 6RQUP PLAN AND 
SINGLE ROUND-TRIP SAVINGS
poise Power  Safety Plate Glass all 
around, with E-Z-Eye plate glass (op
tional at extra cost)  Largest Brakes in 
its field  Unitized Knee-Action Ride.
More Powerful Valve-in-Head Engine 
with Powerglide Automatic Transmis
sion (optional on De Luxe models at 
extra cost)  Body by Fisher  CenterWDm A.-4333 FIRST MIIZ* DN TmD CDND*SM mtTt*L 6DTTO* EDCEWSPL SWS*dL
07. 9G9hen lyly1lrab LD -'4333R Com* ra u9h froo go9slw 6yy,g syal9rarab falhc 19a, 9ae sypU1flf efl9r1Y e# sfaly??R
EASTERNRAILROADSSEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDSI
Conveniently listed under "Automobilesf in your local classified telephone directory
African Racial Problems 
Will Force U. S. Off Fence
Chem Es
The American institute of 
Chemical Engineers will pre
sent a movie on Wednesday, 
December 17, at 4:30 p.m. in 
EH 1112. The title of the 
movie is, Synthetic Fibers.
by Professor Robert Schwarz
In the past week the only encouraging report from Africa was 
the parley between Britain and Egypt, the purpose of which was 
to solve the problems of the two nations in regard to the Sudan 
and the Suez areas. The rest of the continent flooded the news 
market with disconcerting stories. The most disturbing account reach
ed us from the French dependencies of Tunisia and Morocco, where 
an outburst of native resistance occurred which ha's not been equalled 
in intensity since the beginning of the trouble between France and 
her African colonies.
But this is not all. The riots in the Dominion of South Africa 
flared up again, and in the British possession of Kenya another assas
sination by the Mau Mau organization was perpetrated.
Who To Support?
While Asia seemed to be the scene of the most far-reaching 
events in the struggle of colonial peoples during the height of the 
Iranian crisis, Africa appars to be of late the focus of attention. This
displeasure of France, without whose collaboration our defense 
structure in Europe might collapse.
It is, therefore, of interest to note that as the United States 
ultimately^ sided with Britain in the Iran question, it begins to look 
as though this country regards it as prudent to take the side of 
France in the present case. Last week we voted with France in the 
Uaited Nations. No nation can straddle the fence forever.
While we probably will be careful not to enstrange the Africans 
more than necessary, we have apparently taken the position that the 
advantage of a reasonably well-disposed France outweighs the dis
advantage of disappointing Tunisia and Morocco. Could it be that 
since the Russians are flirting with the Arab world by their latest 
anti-Zionist moves, we are losing some interest in the good-will of 
the Moslem world?
Two CIT Students 
Attend Conference 
At West Point
Two Tech students participated 
in the fourth annual Student Con
ference on United States Affairs 
held at the US Military Academy, 
West Point, New York, ftobert C. 
McKie, senior EE, and Douglas 
Mims, Grad IA, were among the 
delegates from 51 participating 
colleges and universities.
The three-fold mission of SCUSA, sponsored by the Carne
gie corporation of New York and the debate council and forum of the Military Academy, was to ex
plore a problem in the field of U.S. 
Foreign policy, to test the instructional value of a conference program at the undergraduate level, 
and to broaden students contact with their collegiate contemporaries in an academic endeavor.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 16, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 3
MIFHDOL
WRCT
Selied ii le
Tuesday, December 16
6:00On the Air 
6:15-Lucky Strike News 
6:15Linger Awhile 
7:15Abide with Me 
7:30Proudly We Hail 
8:00Music 
9:00Jarnes Lacy 
10:00Night Train 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Oft the Air
Wednesday, December 17
6:00On the Air 
6:05Lucky Strike News 
6:15Record Rendezvous 
8:30Folk Music Time 
9:00Phi Mu Alpha 
10:00Musical Music 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Thursday, December 18
6:00On the Air6:05Lucky Strike News
6:15Music6:30Marys Music Hall 
7:00Carnegie Music Hall 
7:30Music 8:00Tftie Dixie Belles 
8:30Bachelor Girl 
9:00Discs with Ed 
9:30Musical Party 
10:00James Lacey 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Luoky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
[Continued from page 2] 
handle refreshments and checking service. There"will be no flowers; the dance is paid for from CFP as
sessments.
Chaperones will be provided by 
the first six fraternities as listed alphabetically. The remaining six 
will provide chaperones for Greek 
Sing and Swing.
For the BEST
fflPhotographic 
Equ:pment and Supplies
Photo
Supply
. - 436 Wood St.
University Recreation
6tWMDNC
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
The easiest-m'tinn 
portable ever built I

*yc91 Vyhl91f y1en th* yuursr91 Wyh1eK? 
Portable LUyfe F9pUryawrU 9w wyG? 
ra ln shhfal Wyh1eKw 91p9a9sR
See it Here 
Terms as low as $|.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
Election
Engineering and Science (4 to be elected); Frederick Dill, Clark Garrecht, Simon Kellman, Louis Kirkbride, James Murphy, W. Lowell Steinbrenner.
Engineering and Science half term only (1 to be elected); Robert Byrne, Dayton Cook.
Fine Arts (1 to be elected); Sorlee Gefsky, Robert Pile, Frank West.
Margaret Morrison (2 to be elected); Rosalind Dym, Carol Moberg, Mary Ellen Ruth, Marjorie Ruttle.Humanistic and Social Studieshalf term only (1 to be elected); Gerald Houck (automatically elected).Assistant Secretary (1 to be elected); Gaye Damich (automatically elected).
[Continued from page 1] 
a new appointee. Managing editor will be Mary Ellen Smith; and art editor, Joy Davenport.
Managing the magazine layout will be W. Cullen Smith. Sally Miller and Walt Schey will serve jointly as advertising managers.
Rounding out the staff will be Andy Stedry as publicity manager; Ken Winston as photography 
head; and George Miley, circulation manager.
Controller Enumerates 
Schools Expenditures
After computing the expenses for the school year beginning Sep-r 
tember, 1951, and ending June, 1952, the controller has issued the 
following figures for the schools expenses.
Student services including admission, registration, measurement 
and guidance, placement, and#-----------------------------------------------
health cost $180,000. The provision 
for a staff retirement program and 
group insurance amounts to $200,- 
000. General expenses and admin
istrative costs are $440,000. The 
total for operating and maintain
ing the physical plant is $530,000.
Tuition and fees from the stu
dents amount to $1,755,000. This 
covers about 95% of instruction 
costs, which are $1,850,000.
Endowment income, which can 
be used for the general budget, 
amounts to about $975,000. This 
figure represents about a 4.25% 
yield of an endowment of $23,- 
000,000 The income from the re
mainder of the general amount 
endowed is about $1,500,000, and 
is restricted for uses such as schol
arships, and other special pro
grams. Additional income neces
sary to meet the budget must be 
obtained from current gifts and 
grants.
Playhouse Gives 
Christmas Play 
At Hamlet Theater
The Christmas play The Holly And The Ivy opened Dec. 6 in the Pittsburgh Playhouses Hamlet street theater.
The Holly And The Ivy, a heart warming story of a family 
reunion at Christmas time, is about a vicar whose younger daughter is hesitant to marry the man she loves and whose older 
daughter has disgraced the family.
The Holly And The Ivy is being staged by Robert BardweU 
and will run until Jan. 3.
Tech Receives 
Music Grant
Defrays Concert Cost 
Fosters Modern Music
Two grants, totalling $1,400, 
were given recently to Carnegie 
Tech to be used by the Pittsburgh 
chapter of the International So
ciety of Contemporary Music. The 
Howard Heinz foundation donated 
$1,000 and the Wherret Memorial 
fund of the Pittsburgh foundation 
gave $400. The grants will be used 
to defray expenses of concerts 
sponsored by the chapter, which 
has its headquarters in the de
partment of music.
Dr. Frederick Dorian and Professors Lopatnikoff and Pearson have been active in the organizational activity of the Pittsburgh chapter since 1946. The society exists to foster understanding of, and consequently interest in modern music by promoting performances of works by contemporary composers.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
TIME SHOP
* Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts# Watches  Jewelry Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
When
tuckaStrikes!
fciSSS
I c I'm taught so p9pJ wordsDoris Bratt , fcaUniversity of Nebrasxa
LUCKIES TASTE 
BETTER!
Theyre made better to taste 
cleaner, fresher, smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment. 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a 
cigarette.
Luckies taste bettercleaner, fresher, smoother! 
Why? Because Luckies are made better to taste 
better. And, whats more, Luckies are made of fine 
tobacco. L.S./M.F.T.Lucky Strike Means Fine 
Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want most in a cigarette... 
for better tastecleaner, fresher, smoother taste... 
Be HappyGo Lucky!
ot* S FMOSNO*4 o*OLEO*4 LmttTEO* TSLTORRR/
6f E9UUcBFt MIFHP$
 A. I. FyRWhile searching for a smoother smoke, Wh,'^d.t.9tytasure* W*h d*d^ s"0*" Heasurel
George Foster Carol,nm
University of North C
product of tsne <JVme\cexvn UoV&jne&^cnrieui'Hp
AMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURES OF CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Face 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 16, 1952
Press Editorial
Summertime . . . 
. . . Playtime
The following is an editorial which appeared in 
the Pittsburgh Press last Thursday concerning a 
proposal that college be an 11 month per year 
business to lessen the financial burden on the stu
dents family. See editorial column.
Too Much Leisure?
In addition to his four years or more of college, 
a young man today must plan to spend two years 
in military service before he can begin earning a 
living.
It is not surprising that some regard that as 
too long, and either cut short their education or 
attempt to complete it in less time. Obviously 
many young people who should be in college are 
not.
As the deans of Columbia College point out in 
their new report, the tradition of four years for 
high school and four years for college goes back 
to about 1900. At that pleasant time no one im
agined that 50 years later military service would 
be required of almost all our healthy young men. j
The changes the deans suggestsuch as more 
scholarships, more intellectual stimulation to en
courage students to finish college, and modification of the professional school requirementsmay | 
help the situation at Columbia. But the great j 
problem of time still would remain.
Why not operate our colleges and high 
schools the year round? By going: to school for
11 months of the year a student could com
plete high school In three years and college in 
three more.
We want an educated youth, but the cost is an 
increasingly heavy burden upon parents and the 
states and communities as well. School buildings 
are mostly vacant during the present vacation 
periods and it would cost littlein addition to the 
teachers salariesto use them.
The summer is simply a play-time for many 
high school and college students, and they have 
generous vacations at Christmastime, too. It would 
not hurt them to have their vacation time re
duced to what it will be when they start working 
for a living.
Pleasant and desirable as leisure is, these 
troubled times permit only a little of it. It is best 
that our young people learn that early.
Graft ?
Editor, tio Tartan:
Just wno is getting the profits from the sale 
of foot powder in the gym? It seems to me that 
if the school can spend the sums it does for health 
facilities then surely it can afford to spend a 
few cents a week for foot powder, as has been the 
practice for the few years that I have been here.
Signed,
Stinky Feet.
c<xArti&ae/
tooDFOL2 F9hafbrf Iarya 53i5 oyhfw Llhffl4 Vrllwhb DL4 
Pa. TOMOVEtNO2 LFfa1fc 0B'55iR 9ulfh yhw mIwfp
0B532 uyh 9e#fhlrwrab 9ae wwshrUlryaw2 mIwfp .B--3R
V1rwfe Gff,1c ehrab lf wsyy1 cf9h fvsfUl y1re9cw
jae fv9pra9lrya Ufhryew c lf wlefalw yu F9hafbrf Dawlr
llf yu Tfsay1ybcR Vrllwhb 04 V9R
OerlyhBraBFrfu RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR ohfe Lyaafafhb
6wrafww m9a9bfh RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR d9#re Cy1ewprl
m9a9brab Oerlyh RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR drs, dhwlraf
LUyhlw Oerlyh RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR oh9a, ofb1fc
NfGw Oerlyh RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR Owlf11f Efh1rs,
Editorial
PLAYTIME ?
Poor Salesmen
Vfhw r.ei m9a9bfhDick Christensen. of9lhfw OerlyhBill 
Smith Se#fhlrwrab m9a9bfhStan Rosenberg. Swwrwl9al 
6wra 4 ww m9a9bfhJerry Seinei. Frhs19lrya m9a9bfhJoe 
LeMarca. Vylybh9Uc OerlyhMartin Snyderman. *fUyhlfhw 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour, Joan Cummerton. Jane 
Sunder. Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner, 
Ken Winston, Bill Minkler. sr? *fUyhlfhwBarbara Leonard, 
Pat Maue, Joe Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwinelle, Doro
thy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robertson, Mollie Rudy, 
Delorc= Prus. LUyhlw *fUyhlfhwEdward Feigenbaum, Rob
ert Steiger, Gene OReilly, Dick Eppler, Ivr Shechter, James 
Gore. Copy *f9efhPaul Carmichael. Shl Ll9uuJoan Brech
ra4 Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. Vylybh9UfhwBarbara Toia, 
Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gregory, Dick Wolfe. 
of9lhfw Ll9uuAndrew Stedry, Robert msQ9re4 Mra Smith, 
Jec Storch. TypistElayne Nord. Ef9e1raf Ll9uuVan An
derson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. FyUc m9,fBIU Ll9uuEllroy 
Young. Advertising StaffRonald Greenwald, Vic Shiry, Mimi 
Stem, Joan Newman. Frhs19lrya Ll9uuRalph Antonito.
Represented for national advertising c NATIONAL Sd
VERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative. '.3 
Madi on Ave. New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered 9w wfsyae s19ww p9llfh ya tslyfh 4, 0-3i4 9l j 
lf Port tuursf 9l VrllwhbR V9R4 aefh lf Ssl yu m9hs 3. | 
0iSssfUlfe uyh p9r1rab 9l wUfsr91 h9lf yu Uywl9bf Uhy
#refe uyh ra lf Ssl yu ofh9hc . 0-.5
Member of th* \scociated College Press.
After reading an editorial in last Thursdays Pittsburgh 
Press, we came to the rather obvious conclusion that todays 
college student is not doing too good of a job in selling to 
the public higher education and its present method of at
tainment. In the days following World War II and especially 
since the beginning of the Korean business, a great section 
of our population has expressed contempt for the college 
student and his institution. The idea of semi-blanket defer
ments for men in college has run into some severe opposi
tion, especially by those who cannot go on to school and thus 
are yanked into the Army.
. However, it seems that the Press has pretty well missed 
the point in trying to present its main argument. Their 
reasoning, instead of applying to the college man coming 
from families who find difficulty in keeping someone in 
school, is right down the alley of the well-to-do student who 
thinks of summertime as nothing but time to write rushing 
letters. The three months vacation during the summer gives 
the student a chance to earn enough money to keep himself 
in school for nearly half the coming year. If he did not 
have this time in which to work, his parents would notice 
the burden much sooner, providing they could keep him in 
school.
Next summer we would like to invite the newspaper men 
to visit Carnegie Tech during its idle months. Those students 
who are desirous of finishing school in three years are attend
ing the summer session. .Much of the important research work 
(which, in the case of state schools, is one of the reasons for 
state-support) can be completed, now that the profs can quit 
grading papers for three months. Other students, instead of 
playing, are adding to their academic knowledge by working 
with the professors. And maybe at last, the administration can 
find time to take care of the building maintenance. Nosum
mer is not playtime for the college student.
And, if those of the fourth estate should look in on the 
student who is not around campus during the summer, they 
would see that, besides earning necessary money, he is not 
losing any time on his way up the education ladder. In 
many cases the practical knowledge picked up in summer 
employment is essential for a complete understanding of 
ones chosen profession.
But this belief held by the newspapermen does show 
we are missing the boat. In our contacts with those outside 
of college we must be giving the wrong impression of col
legiate life and its troubles. Those students who have to 
come to school for no other reason but to avoid the cruel 
world for four years and thus spend most of their time 
attending movies and carousing are the ones responsible for 
making college seem a life of leisure. We must, in order 
to insure that higher education receives its due respect, 
show by our off-campus activities that the man or woman 
who has set aside four years of his life to further his knowl
edge is, by considerable effort and self sacrifice, adding to 
his own and the nations preferment.
^Jhe Oblongata papersCaveat Emptor
Translated from the original Celtic by R. Durstine
Many years ago there was born to a family 
living somewhere on this troubled earth a baby 
son, to whom we shall henceforth make reference 
as Mr. X.
Our subject led a quiet and peaceful childhood, 
spending his waking hours milking the family yak, 
romping on a nearby heath, and training for a 
job as hooktwister in his fathers coathanger fac
tory. All in all, he was a normal lad who got along 
well with his fellows.
But at the age of 13 something happened 
which was to* change the course of his entire 
life.
It was then that a well meaning maiden aunt 
gave Mr. X a baggy brown sweater which she had 
knit herself as a gift for a December holiday that 
is sponsored jointly by the Post Office department 
and the American cravat industry.
Being a devoted nephew, Mr. X felt obliged to 
put his sweater to good use. So he straightway de
cided to quit work in his fathers plant anfl study 
for life as a scientist.
In this way'he could wear the baggy brown 
sweater daily.
Off he went to school, determined to learn all 
there is to know about the world we live in; or, 
if that proved impossible, to become acquainted 
with some one part of it; which he did. And as 
he progressed in his schooling he developed a 
passionate interest in those affairs of the material 
world which are outside the doings of men. 
Troublesome creatures, men, who unlike atoms, 
are quite unpredictable.)
At school he worked his way through the shiny 
surface of science that the scientist displays for 
the benefit of the general public, and past the vast 
layer of drab basic principle to the second sparkling 
area, the realm of research.
But for all this penchant for abstraction, it is 
a tragic fact that even scientists have to eat. And 
unless they thrive on sapling bark and wild roots 
and berries, it is best that,they have a source of 
monetary income.
It is thus that Mr. X came to be an instructor 
at a leading technological institute somewhere on 
the North American continent. And it is likewise 
thus that he came to be the pedagogue of several 
dozen aspiring young future Mr. Xs, who also 
owned baggy brown sweaters and desired to give 
up their lives on the same altar that had afforded 
Mr. X (by this time Dr. &) so much pleasure as 
a pioneer in the realms of the inanimate.
Like so many who have lost their souls, 
Dr. X had a single-minded desire to attend to 
his lifes work, and to bother as little as pos
sible with this troublesome business of play
ing professor and training those wearisome 
little monsters called undergraduates.
But in accordance with the terms of his em
ployment, he showed up at the prescribed places 
at the prescribed times each week to blunder 
through 50 minutes that gave the more brilliant 
and ambitious students a chance to feel that they 
were more clever than the instructor, and the 
lazier and duller pupils a period of relaxation, 
content with the knowledge that they were not 
likely to miss anything of importance if they 
slept in class or stayed away altogether, so long 
as they came through with a decent grade on the 
final.
If Dr. X took exception to this, he did not 
express any opinions to that effect.
The employers of Dr. X, if they knew about the 
situation which existed, had no reason to object. 
His outstanding work in the field of research gave 
him a mighty name among his fellow scientists 
which in turn reflected glory on his school. This 
drew good students to study at he institution, and 
then to become distinguished themselves, thus re
flecting more glory on their alma mater, and so 
forth. ,
What more could the college want?
What more could Dr. X want? He had ample 
time to do his research after these few trouble
some hours per Week were out of the way.
And what more could the students want than 
to be able to sit in the same room with a real 
live research scientist several days each week?
It seems like a very happy arrangement all 
around.
That is, unless one happens to be interested 
in getting an education in some other way than by 
digging out the answers himself because of pro
fessorial sluggardry shrouded and protected under 
the guise of a Divine Plan.
But how does one go about attracting top stu
dents if all one offers is a first rate education? 
It is impossible, and Mr. X was essential to the 
system to lure bright and ambitious young stu nts 
who want to receive the best available n the ny 
of college teaching.
Moral: Dont handle the merchandise; it a 
present for appearance only.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 16, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPaff f
ADDRESS CORRESPONDENCE TO 
Technical Placement Supervisor 
McDonnell Aircraft Corporation
St. Louis S, Missouri
Plaid Checked By Geneva Five 78-58
n
Scot Swimmers 
^ Down Indiana
Mermen Cop Easy Win 
Over Teachers 69-12
Taking all ten first places, Car
negie Techs varsity swimming 
team had little difficulty in down
ing Indie-na State Teachers. Tech 
started things off right with Coul
ter, Aiken, and Kramer easily j winning the 300 yard medley rei lay. Then Reuther and Fischer! took 1-2 in the 220 free-style and j 
in the next event Techs Guz took | his first of two places of the afternoon and Indiana STC grabbed its first of two second places. In Guz, Coach Sofield has a fine swimmer who can develop into a 
better dash man than last years ace Nick Demas.
Kummer A Comer Bob Weddell won the individual medley going away, with MacDon
ald of Tech taking second in front of Stauffer of Indiana. At this point the score was 27.5. In the next event Grey Duncan turned in 
his usual performance and almost had more points than the two Indiana divers combined, but freshman John Kummer was the diver whom the Tech swimmers were pulling for. Kummer missed third place by only a few points, quite an accomplishment for a boy who had never done any fancy diving before last October.
Techites Dominate Guz, Coulter, McDonald, and Drew turned in four more first places seconded by McCorkle, MacDonald, Schey, and Schuck. And in the last event old reliable* Dick Kramer came from behind in the 400 yard relay to give Tech its tenth first place and its first victory.
TECH
TECH DOMINATION
This was one of the few times that the Geneva Covenenters 
were not in on a play last Saturday night. Left to right are Tartans 
Don Hay, Tom Craig, and Bill Dosey..
Rifle Club
The Carnegie Tech Rifle and 
Pistol club will hold its De
cember meeting Tuesday, De
cember 16, at 4:30 at the rifle 
range in the sub-basement of 
Margaret Morrison building. 
All members and people inter
ested in rifle shooting are 
urged to attend this important 
meeting. Inter-college matches 
will commence in February.
IM Basketball 
Season To Open 
After Christmas
Intramural basketball, which 
had a record number of teams par
ticipating last year, will begin its 
season shortly after Christmas va
cation. As in the past, the games 
will be played on week nights 
starting at 7 p.m. and 8 p.m.
Officials Needed
Any student wishing to officiate 
games is requested to sign the 
referees list in the gym.
In the past few years, independ
ent quintets have dominated 
league play. A pre-season fore
cast sees the independent teams in power again.
Pre-Season ForecastLast years champions, the Little Sekuds have lost among others, Tex Richards, their 6' 5" all-school center, but they again figure to be strong.
From the fraternity list, Delta Upsilon and Alpha Tau Omega look toughest.
The DU team, which played in the final last year, is back intact.Alpha Tau Omega will field a veteran team showing three former varsity and three freshmen 
team men.
Senior Kaye Thompson 
Captains Tartan Five
by Jim Gore
With the,1952-53 basketball season having opened, Ronald Kaye 
Thompson has-'started his fourth year of basketball playing at Car
negie Tech.
Enrolled in the school of architecture and now a senior, Kaye 
played his first ball as a sophomore at Penn Township high school in Butler county. He was a sub forward that year but graduated to first string in his junior year. During his last season at high school Kaye changed from forward to guard and has remained in that position ever since.
Played Intramural Ball In the three years that he participated in secondary school ball 
Kaye led his team in scoring each year. However he is quick to point 
out that it only required 46 points to do so one season. The high 
school team was not an outstanding one, but it did take county 
honors one year.Following his graduation Kaye decided to further his education 
and came to Carnegie to start the five year architecture course. His 
freshman year Kaye played intramural basketball but after some of the varsity players who were 
reJereeing the contests saw him play, they told Mel Cratsley, Tech 
varsity coach, about him. Crats
ley asked Kaye to come out for 
college basketball. Kaye did so
and played on the frosh team as he was still eligible for freshman
Co-Captain of Team
In the 1950-51 season Kaye made the varsity squad although he was not a starter. It was during this and the following year 
that Kaye gained experience and what was more importantconfidence. He states that he has learned a great deal of what he knows about basketball at Tech and credits coach Mel Cratsley with 
the major part of his improve
ment.This season will be Kayes last 
and he hopes to make it a good one. So far his expectations have been fully fulfilled. In the first 
four contests of the year Kaye has played excellent ball in ad
dition to scoring 64 points, of which 29 came in the Bethany 
game last Wednesday. Kaye is cocaptain of this years Tech squad and has made a fine name for him
self as he is a good worker, a 
hard, clean player, and is respect
ed by all who know him.
SCORING
Co-captains KayeThompson
and Tom Craig lead theTartans
in scoringafter thefirstfour
games with averagesof16and
14.5 points per game. The leading
scorers are:
GPAvg.
Thompson46416.0
Craig45814.5
Jeske4338.2
Mocker4276.8
Dosey4IS4.5
Ackerman4112.8
Covies Height? Speed Tell Story 
Tech Meets Duquesne Tonite
The Carnegie^ Tech basketball squad suffered defeat at the hands 
of a spirited Geneva college contingent last Saturday night by a 
score of 78-58, in a game played in the CIT gym. The speedy Geneva 
five had the height advantage, and as Techs rebounding suffered
considerably, Geneva sprinted to^----------------------------------------------
an early advantage which they 
kept throughout the contest. Ge
neva increased a 34-26 halftime 
lead to 57-37 at the third quarter, 
and staved off a desperate Tech 
rally in the final quarter to win 
going away.
In the field goal column, the 
Tartans, with 22 goals, almost 
equaled Genevas 24 baskets; fouls, 
however, proved to be Techs un
doing once again, as they scored 
only 14 foul shots while Geneva 
added 30 markers by means of the 
free throw.
High scorers for the Skibos 
were co-captains Tom Craig and 
Kaye Thomson, each registering 11 
points. Runners-up in the scoring 
column for Tech were Ralph 
Mocker with nine points and Walt 
McGinnis, who scored eight. For 
Geneva, their senior co-captain 
Pete Kinkead racked up a phenomenal 32 points to give him a season average of 28.25 points per 
game.
Ackerman, f
G
.........0
F
0
T
0
Mocker, f ..........239.....102
Daniels, g . .0
1
.........5]wThompson, g.........51.....12
2
McGinnis, c.........40
Hyaras. g...12
GENEVA
GF
1
T
3413
00
719
McCracken, c61
___101232
Huggins, g ......10S
Score By Quarters:
12141121--58
. 19152321--78
Game-Goers
For the Duquesne game, 
Tuesday, December 16, stu
dents are requested to use the 
upper entrance to the gym 
(door nearest Schenley park). 
There will be no admittance 
by any other door.
VOL.446
AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Graduate Plan
For
MASTER OF SCIENCE
And
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREES
PURPOSE
To assist outstanding BS graduates in 
obtaining their Master of Science and 
Doctor of Science Degrees while em
ployed in industry and making a signifi
cant contribution to national defense 
work.
ELIGIBILITY
January and June 1953 graduates receiv
ing BS Degrees in the following fields: 
Aeronautical Engineering 
Civil Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Electronic Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Physics
Those chosen to participate in this Plan 
will be from the upper portion of their 
graduating class and will have evidenced 
unusual technical ability. They must 
also have evidenced imaginative ability 
and possess personality traits enabling 
them to work well with others.
CITIZENSHIP 
Applicants must be United States citi
zens who can be cleared for Secret.*
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY
Washington University in St. Louis will 
participate in this program and candi
dates for Master of Science and Doctor 
of Science Degrees must meet entrance 
requirements for advanced students at 
this university.
PROGRAM
Under this Graduate Plan the candidate 
will work full time at McDonnell Air
craft Corporation until September 1953. 
From September 1953 to June 1954 
candidates will work at M.A.C. from 28
to 36 hours per week, attending Wash
ington University on an individually ar
ranged schedule. A Master of Science 
Degree should be obtained within a 
maximum of two calendar years. Under 
this arrangement it will be possible for 
a candidate to earn approximately 85% 
of a normal years salary and to attend 
the university during regular semesters 
while working toward his advanced de
gree.
COMPENSATION
Compensation will be commensurate 
with the individuals ability and experi
ence. Compensation growth will be on 
the same basis as the full time members 
of the engineering staff. In addition, the 
candidate will be eligible for all other 
benefits accruing to full time employees.
TUITION
Tuition covering the required number of 
units necessary to obtain an advanced 
degree wall be paid by McDonnell Air
craft Corporation.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES 
Candidates will be selected by officials 
of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and 
Washington University.
DATES FOR APPLYING
January 1953 graduates should make in
formal applications prior to January 10, 
1953. McDonnell Aircraft Corporation 
will then forward formal applications 
which should be returned by January 20, 
1953, accompanied by up to date grad 
transcripts. Selections will be made dur
ing the month of February. June 1953 
graduates should make informal applica
tion no later than March 15, 1953.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 16, 1952
S,>rtc'poricope
by FRANK FEGLEY, Sports Editor
Michigan State was unanimously acclaimed as the number one 
football team in the country for the 1952 gridiron season. Both the 
United Press and Associated Press polls named the Spartans to the 
spot. The top ten teams in the final AP poll were:
1. Michigan State ......... (9-0)
2. Georgia Tech ........ (11-0)
3. Notre Dame ........ (7-2-1)
4. Oklahoma ............ (8-1-1)
5. Southern California %. . (9-1)
6. UCLA .*................................ (8-1)
7. Mississippi ............ (8-0-2)
8. Tennessee ............. (8-1-1)
9. Alabama ................... (9-2)
10. Texas ........................ (8-2)
VOLLEYBALL
PLAYOFFS
The league volleyball champions will play off this week for the allschool trophy.
Yesterday evening, Alpha Tau Omega played the Faculty Bulldogs, while the Sekuds met Kap
pa Sigma. The winners of these two games will tangle with Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Nu respectively tomorrow night.
The two teams emerging victor
ious from the  round robin will play off on Thursday for the championship.
Intramural Roundup
By pooling together the United Press, New York News, Colliers, 
Grantland Rice, Football Writers association, INS, and NEA service 
All-American teams, we come out with a conglomeration of stars 
which should be accepted by all as the all-star team. Here is the 
consensus All-American team.
Ail-American TeamOFFENSIVE DEFENSIVE
EndBernie Flowers, Purdue ; EndFrank McPhee, Princeton
EndTom Stolhandske, Texas j EndEd Bell, Penn
TackleHal Miller, Georgia Tech TackleDick Modzeleski, Md. 
TackleI>oug Adkins, Tennessee TackleGeorge Morris, Ga. Tech i
GuardIJmer Willhoite, USC 
GuardJohn Michels, Tennessee 
CenterTom Catlin, Oklahoma 
BackJack Scarbath, Maryland 
BackBilly Vessels, Oklahoma
' GuardHarley Sewell, Texas 
j GuardSteven Eisenhaver, Navy 
i LinebackerDon Moomaw, UCLA 
] LinebackerD. Tamburo, M. St. 
; HalfbackJ. Lattner, Notre Dame 
BackDon McAulifTe, Mich. State HalfbackGil Reich, Kansas 
BackJohn Olszewski, California SafetyJim Sears, USC
All that remains In this departing football season are the bowl 
games to be played New Year's day. Here is the lineup of the major 
bowl tilts.
Rose Bowl 
Southern California vs. Wisconsin 
Sugar Bowl
Georgia Tech. vs. Mississippi
Cotton Bowl 
Texas vs. Tennessee 
Orange Bowl 
Alabama vs. Syracuse
The Rose bowl is in Pasadena, the Sugar bowl in New Orleans, 
the Cotton bowl in Dallas, and the Orange bowl in Miami.
No matter how you 
say it. . . 
Arrow Gifts mean
Arrow skirt*......................$3.95 up
Arrow sports shirts............3S5 up
Arrow ties...................... .1M up
Arrow handkerchiefs .... .35* up
Arrow undershorts .......1.45 up
Arrow undershirts .........,.1XX) up
ARROW
SHIRTS  TICS  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS J
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Stretch
Volleyball playoff
SAE Cops Volleyball Trophy, 
ATO And Sigma Nu Also Win
Sigma Alpha Epsilon outlasted the Sekuds in an hour and three 
quarter marathon last Friday night to win the Tartan league volley
ball championship. With the spiking of Ed. Puchy, Ned Clark, and 
Jim McCune, and the setting of little Eddie Possesky showing the
way, SAE won by 13-15, 15-13, ?.......................................................and 15-11 scores in this playoff tilt.Earlier in the week, SAE down
ed the Betas and the Sekuds to gain the playoff right.
Sigma Nu Wins 
Sigma Nu finished its season undefeated with a brilliant comeback victory over Citcom. After losing the first set 15-13, and trailing in the second 13-6, Sigma Nu 
turned on the steam for 15-13 and 15-9 wins to clinch the set. Kay Thompson and George Bushey paced the victors.
ATO in Plaid 
In the Plaid league, the championship was decided in a battle between two unbeaten teams.
Alpha Tau Omega won out over Kappa Sigma 15-7, 15-10.
Water Polo
Entries for water polo are due Thursday, December 18, by 4:30. Eight men are allowed on the roster.
FINAL STANDING 
VOLLEYBALL
Plaid League
wX.
Alpha Tau Omega <A80
Kappa Sigma A71\rv'Obelisks6S
Slagsft3
Tau Delta Phi3ft
Roopsips B2S
Theta Xi "A"t
Sigma Nu B11
Kiltie League
wL
Sigma Nu A8
Facultyt1
Citcomis2
Roopsips Aft3
Delta Tau Delta B47nJNewman Club2
Beta Sigma Rho A26
Phi Kappa B26
Kappa Sigma B8
Tartan League
WL
Sigma Alpha Epsilon81Sekuds2Phi Kappa A62
Beta Theta Pi58Thet Xi B44
Pi Kappa Alpha44
Delta Upsilon26
Delta Tau Delta C~17
Alpha Tan Omega B"0
s
*tP ZO*NO* 6OOLO
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
CONFERENCE IN THE CLOUDS
Among the undergraduates on any college campus, youll find 
the talk reaching up to the clouds. And price in a while  in a class
room, around a study table, or even in a bull session  a really big 
idea is born.
Big ideas come, too, from the men and women in laboratories, 
business offices, shops. But often these professionals are exploring 
a path first glimpsed in college.
How do we know? Because of the many college people who 
have come into the Bell System, where big ideas and a lot of dreams 
have taken their place in progress. The human voice, carried along 
a wire, first across a town, then a state, a nation, and now the world. 
Music and pictures and things happening delivered into cities and 
hamlets all across tlie land by radio and television networks.
Were always looking for the men and women who get big 
ideaswhether theyre about people, or machines, or ways oi doing 
things. Your Placement Officer can give you details about oppor
tunities for employment in the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
m

---------------------------------------------------

TYPEWRITERS $2050
All Kinds as Low as
More BOUNCE to the Ounce
Tuesday, Deeember 16, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 7
LET S GO TO
ISALY'S
mr1, L9,fw 
6rb Dsf Fhf9p Fyafw 
H1yaer,fw
* *T9wlc Masfw 
- ?
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
1714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
| 338* Boulevard of the Allies
AmericanTypewriierCo.
11 Wood St. fA |.jAJA
Convenient Parkin*
RENT A TYPEWRITER
n'R33
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
Roger Jones, if.S. in Chem., Haverford College 52 (right), and operator 
check temperature control in the conversion of furfural to furan.
Among the most interesting fields for engineers at Du Pont is the design of plants and equipment.
It takes ingenuity of a high order to translate a small-scale laboratory operation into all-out commerical production. Design engineers cannot always use purchasable equipment to scale up research findings, even with considerable adaption. About half of the time at Du Pont, entirely new equipment must be designed because of the novelty of the process developed by research.
For example, a number of unusual problems were involved in designing
of the intermediates for nylon, is made from furfural, derived from such agricultural by-products as corncobs and hulls of cottonseed, 
oats and rice.
In this conversion, these steps are involved:
C4H3OCHO "*** C4H4O
fwrf*rcrl catalyst foro
2M2---?CiHeO
tetrahydrofuran
2WC1THTEIN a
2NaCM---->NF(FE.>' cn 
9erUyarlhr1f
4H2BBBBB>
LOWESTOP WTO
Here are some of the special problems that 
were encountered:
1. Dtfign of equipment with dose temperature control for converting furfural to furan. The design finally settled on employs a large number of tubes containing a catalyst, with a coolant circulated around them. Special sequence
E. W. Griffin, B.S. in M.E., Duke; M.S. in 
Ind. Mgt, Georgia Tech 52 (right), instruct 
operator in handling of aapor-tight horizontal 
vacuum filter used in separating adiponitril 
from sodium chloride.
MEW BOOK. Send for "Chemical Engi
neers at Du Pont, just off the pres. 
Explain opportunities in research, de
velopment, production, sales, adminis
tration and management. Ad drese: 2521 
Neinourg Bldg., Wmingtorv Del.
0&(Dos> Z3 cacndv7&tSi3JCFZr 
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. .. THROUGH CHiMHTfY
Listen to gF9#9lh9en of America, Th #sday Nights on
NBCSee ft Every Otti er Wednescij on NBC TV
* % ^CARNEGtE-^/J . C)
ff // IPttS KYS\ V
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ........................................................1................... Victor Sabol
Reporters.........Anna Mae Legosh, Kathy Galligan, Chiles Keller,
Ray Schwalm N '
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
YOUR fULL DISCOUNT
OAKLAND HARDWARE
737 ot*6OL LTR
Insign iaA ward Points, 
Keys Easily Acquired
At the December meeting of Evening Student Council, it was de
cided that a list of all students earning points for insignia award be
No Plaid
Due to theforthcoming 
Christmas vacation there will 
be no PLAID until the issue 
of January 13. The January 
13 issue will be the last one 
of the semester.
published in the Plaid. Many students do not realize how easy it is to
earn the 20 points required for an insignia award, 
students keep their own record of^- 
the number of points they have 
received, others do not, and there
fore find that they are short at the 
end of the year.
In order that all students know how far they have progressed toward their goal, a list will be published every three months. Students earning the required number of points will be invited to attend an insignia banquet in the Fall, when they will be presented with a key.
If a student does not earn enough points in one year for an insignia, one half of these points will be applicable to an award during the following year. The following list has been compiled as of December 1:
While some
Bartoli, Bill .............................................. 5
Bertivich, Matt ............... 3Vz
Bogovich, George ........................................ 9Brobst, Bill ....................................................12
Burt, Dorothy ....................................... 2
Byers, Floyd .............................................. 8V2
Byers, Wilma .......................... 2
Dawes, George ....................................... I
Galligan, Kathy ........................................XWi
Gonter, Ellen ...................................... 2Groll, Bill ................................................iii/z
George, Betty ............................ ...d. .. 2Holecka, Rege ..................................... 5
Hughes, Peggy Ann .................................... 1Keller, Chas.................................................
Keller, Marie .................................. 4Kelly, Mary .................................................. 2
Komlenic, John ........................................... 2
Latza, Martha ................................................. 1
Legosh, Anna Mae ......................................13
| Liston, Lydia ................................................ 2
I Long, Alton ................................................ 5
I May, Byron .................................................. 4
; May, Mary . ........................................... 'Vs\ Peterson ,Mary Alice...................... 5%
I Pore, Ken .................................................15
Ross, Ginny ...............................................16
Sabol, Vic ..................................................20%
Schwalm, Ray ...................... VlVm
Scharrenberger, Will ...................... 8
Stumpf, Lenora ............................ 4
Spisak, Andy ...............................................2
Schussler, George ....................................
Sessi, Marce ................................................ 6
Walker Don ............................................... 3
Woods, Jean ................................................. 9
If for any reason you feel that your point score is in error, please contact the person in charge of the duties for which you have earned points. 4
Scale model of a part of the plant where adiponitrile is made from furfural.
timers were devised for operation of the valves controlling production and regeneration cycles.
2. Design of high-pressure agitated autoclaves for the hydrogenation of furan to tetrahydrofuran.
3. Selection of corrosion-resistantequipment for the hydrochlorination of tetrahydrofuran to dichlorobutane at high temperatures.
4. Design of a unique five-step distillation train to obtain high-grade adiponitrile without trace impurities.
Although most of these problems involve a great deal of chemical engineering, also needed on the designing team were mechanical, electrical, civil, metallurgical and industrial engineers. Thus design work at Du Pont is open to men with many types of training, and there is abundant opportunity for all.
Editorial
Wheres School Spirit?
^ ' Once more we have come to that part in our school year, the 
Christmas season, which means a two-week vacation from classes. 
Although we wish all students to make the best possible use of their 
free time, we would like to remind them that upon their return to 
school in January they will have only two weeks before final exam
inations. As the end of this semester approaches, can you truthfully 
say that you have shouldered your personal responsibility to yourself 
and your fellow evening students to promote evening school func
tions?
f Since this is the last edition of the Plaid for 1952, we would 
like at this time to give you a brief resume of our accomplishments 
| this year. In our first issue in September and in several subsequent 
I issues we ran our customary want-ad column. The response was not 
i as promising as your editor had expected. The October 22 issue of 
I the Plaid featured an editorial on the Job of Editing the Paper Not
Up To the Staff Alone in which 
on ways for improving the evesuggestions have been forthcom-< ing.
What has happened to the old ^hool spirit of Carnegie Tech Evening School students? In sev
eral other editions of the paper, letters to the editors were published which we are pleased to report have brought about satisfactory results.
On New Years Eve when you go to make up your resolutions for the coming year, place at the top oi your list a resolution stating that you will be more active iwi evening school functions  
AND KEEP THAT RESOLUTION! You will not only be helping your fellow evening stu
dents to a more enjoyable life at CIT, but you will also create a fuller life for yourself. Your school experiences become more than just a tedious grind because in addition to meeting the 
textbook in class, you also have an opportunity to become ac
quainted with your fellow students. Well be looking for YOU at the next social function.
your editor asked for suggestions 
ning school page. Up to now no
V19al 9ae OqrUpfal
and the Engineer
Sl d Vyal4 pfa Grl p9ac lcUfw yu lh9rarab lh9aw
19lf 19yh9lyhc ef#f1yUpfalw raly u11Bws91f Uhyeslrya

---------------------------------------------------

WFEOLTO*oD OMd.Much Mder
TEOP LSTDLoP-AND EtWRRR ra wsyy1 9ae yl4 DK#f ffa 
9 Ffwlfhurf1e wpy,fh uyh 5 cf9hw/K w9cw Jya 6R 6ycsf4 
ura9asr91 9a91cwlR KKTfcK#f byl G9l rl l9,fw ly br#f pf 
G9l D G9al ra 9 srb9hfllfRg
FtMIm6DS INDZR K53
UMm t muj TOMcto co
Chesterfield is Best for YOU!
And First to Present 
this Scientific Evidence on 
Effects of Smoking
A
 MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular 
bi-monthly examinations of a group of 
people from various walks of life. 45 percent 
of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an 
average of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist re
ports that he observed . . . 
no adverse effects on the nose, throat 
and sinuses of the group from smoking 
Chesterfield. 
CHESTERFIELDFIRST and only premium 
quality cigarette available in both regular and 
king-size.
pini.iAi cr
Fife 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 1C,1952
The Three Blind Mice 
HE-MEN INDUSTRIALISTS . . .
The latest marvel of architecture 
and engineering, the million dollar 
IA building has developed some 
attributes the builders hadnt planned. The giant glass doors on 
the entrance make masterful impressions on the students, but let forth with an inner sanctum wail 
for the brawny who have enough 
beef to force an entrance.
BR )AD MINDED . . . Answer
ing a readers complaint that the 
Xavier University News put too much stress on football, the paper 
declared: We too are devotees of 
the fine arts and eagerly await 
the day when a performance of Oedipus Rex in Greek will draw 
ten thousand fans.
INTELLIGENT? . . . Tell us which class erected the well known Senior Fence?
IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE . . . 
Ad in the UCLA Daily Bruin: 
Will the blonde young lady who 
wore sun glasses Thursday morn
ing (besides other things) be in 
the cafeteria between 11 and 12 
a.m.?
WOODSMAN SPARE THAT
TREE . . . The administrations 
sinister plan to eliminate vegetation on the campus is being foiled
by some mysterious nurseryman 
who keeps planting full grown 
trees on the IA lawn.
UNKLE EZRA SEZ . . . Bout this time o yar Id like to be a wishin all you in the radio audience a sort of pleasant holliday holler-day n vaka-shun. I hopes 
Santy an them thare pink elephants are real nice ta youall.
BIG HURRY . . .A South Dakota State College coed tells of her experience during registration. Things were going smoothly until she stepped into an especially line. After a two hour reachedthe men's washroom.
WINTER SOLSTICE . . . Thatis, the official opening of winter, 1952, will Ke held at 4:44 p.m. on December 21, 1952.
ODE TO PITTSBURGH . . . Dirty days has September,April, June and November; 
From January up to May,The rain it cometh, every day; 
All the rest have thirty-one,Without a blessed gleam of sun; 
And if any of them had two and thirty,
Theyd be just as wet and twice as dirty.
EXPERIENCED TYPIST
Desires Work at Home 
JA 1-5913 
MO 1-2662
There's fun-filled confusion
when the campus empties *) 
into cars, trains and planes 
as Christmas holidays 
begin. Heading for good 
times? Pause for a Coke 
and go refreshed
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY'Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
"Coh"b m nghtind trad mark  1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
