The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 23, April 24, 1984.
KAREN CERRONI
-SUiffwriier
lonight a resolution for a new steering 
imittee will be brought before Student 
jte by Eric Rocher, Rules Committee 
airman. The new committees goal is to 
Ice Senate as efficient as possible.Jstudent Senate President Bill McCormick |d, Senate hasnt been as productive in ; last few years as we would have liked it to |. We hope this committee will help elimiIte this problem.The committees main function is to idenr key issues for Senate to act on, and to set llicy for any necessary actions.
John Pane, Senate Chariman, supports 
plan. I think it is a fine idea. The 
ram provids the direction we need. 
lraining from leadership duties, dealing 
|th administration, and studying theories 
i how to operate as a group will be pres
ited during a retreat or seminar for the 
ators.
IPane remarked, Bill [McCormick] has 
[ten a step in the right direction. Im sure 
outcome will be positive.
lack to the books
resolution to come before Senate
photo by Bob Fishel
GSO representative Bill Nichols (r.) looks on as CFA senator Peter Corless is recognized. The steering committee resolution will be brought 
up at tonights meeting, 7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room.
'orter leaves Hunt for graduate school at Pitt
fAMY MILLERii Staffxvriter
Porter, the most recent head of 
lint Library, left CMU to become a graduJ student at University of Pittsburgh. 
[Porter had been in charge of administraand responses on the question/com* 
nt board for the last three years. Although 
found interacting with the students 
Is a jsositive experience,'Porter felt it was 
for her to move on. After completing 
dies,at.University of Texas/Ausdn, she 
an working at the schools Humanities 
irch Center.
tfter a hiatus in London as a graduate
student, Porter came to Pittsburgh and 
worked several jobs here, including posi
tions with Carnegie Library, the Diocesan 
Commission for Catholic Services and 
Social Welfare, and Community College of 
Allegheny County. Before coming to CMU, 
she was, head of Chatham College Library 
and was also president o Pittsburgh 
Regional Library Center. - . 
According to Thomas J. Michalak, Diietof of University Libraries, turnover is fairly 
high in the position; Porter held. The two 
began talking about her departure last fail, 
and Porter planned to leave at the endrof last 
semester.
I felt that at this point in her career it was 
a good decision, commented Michalak.
He also noted Porter did a good job get
ting the library staff to work as a team while
doing some learning herself.
Porter is currently studying for a Masters 
in Public Administration and is interested 
in management and research.
DTD's Mattaboni wins UMOC
By KATHLEEN ROMANIK
Special to The Tartan
-Jofen Mattaboni, a brother o Delta Tau ~ 
Delta' fiatemity, became the ugliest man at 
CMU by winning the Ugly Man On Cam* 
pus contest with a total of $242.24 in votes. 
The contest, which is an annual event spon
sored by Alpha Phi Omega National Service 
Fraternity, was held on March 14 and 15. 
Contestants from various campus organiza
tions competed for the title, and people 
voted for whoever they thought was the 
ugliest by putting money in the box
under their picture, with a penny counting 
for one vote:
The other winners of the contest were as 
follows: second place, Kathy Fafey from 
DTD; third place, The Lobster, from 
APhiO; ateo a contestant from APhiO. Over 
>, $400.0ft was raised from the event and the 
proceeds are begin dortated to St. Jude 
Childrens Hospital. Alpha Phi Omega 
would like to thank everyone who participated in the contest, especially Delta Tau 
Delta for donating $360.00 for their two 
candidates.
Trustee wins Alger Award
& 
.vjpS  .photo by Colin Rafferty
elta Tau Delta brother cycles the way to a good cause. The Delts raised over $500 for the 
"*can Cancer Society in front of Doherty Hall Friday.
By DON HALE
Special to The Tartan
Paula D. Hughes, vice president-director 
of Thomson McKinnon Securities, Inc., and 
a life trustee of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
has been named a winner of the 1984 Hora
tio Alger Award.
Hughes was one of ten Americans chosen 
for the award, which is given annually by 
the Horatio Alger Association of Distin
guished Americans, Inc., a non-profit ser
vice organization founded in 1947.
Horatio Alger Awards are given to those 
whose lives typify the early struggles and 
professorial achievements represented by the 
heroes of the 19th-century authors books. 
Hughes often has been referred to as the 
first lady of Wall Street. She manages more 
than $90 million of investment money for 
individuals and advises institutions on 
investments totalling more than $500 
million.
Hughes and other award recipients will 
be honored at a May 18 dinner in Los 
Angeles. Other award winners include television personality Ed McMahon, minister 
and former heavyweight boxing champion 
George Foreman and Sam M. Walton, 
chairman and chief executive officer of WalMart Stores, Inc.
In this issueNews
The other side of the fence...............page 2
100 watts for WRCT...........................page 3
Features
Nuclear Winter-----............................page 5
New Japanese course.............................page 5
Entertainment
Thompson Twins..................................page 9
The Madonnas in concert .................page 9
Sports
Golf not easy.......................................page 13
American League preview ............page 14
Editorial
Senate drives in new direction .. - page 19

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 24, 1984
The other side of the fence
Students are not being taught to understand
By URIEL WITTENBERG
Special to the Tartan
A song can be sad whether its key is major 
or minor. A girl can be pretty whether she is 
dark or fair. A teacher can be excellent 
whether he barks at students or is softspoken, whether he struts from 
wall to wall or stands stock-still, 
whether his dress is drab or 
colors clash, whether he is per
sonally aloof or just one of the guys, whether 
he mounts sensational slide projector shows 
or contents himself with plain white chalk.
It would be regrettable if our passion for 
easy measures diverted our attention from 
the fundamental to the superfluous.
# # #
Let us imagine a fantasy city which is 
graced with a functional transit system, and 
where students know nothing about how to 
drive a car. We examine how students might 
receive instruction in operating a manual 
transmission automobile. We focus on the
Such a teacher is doing his students a 
service by demanding the application of 
intelligence. It seems probable that exercise 
of the mind lias a fortifying effect. In addi
tion, a foundation is more durable than a 
cupboard-full of techniques. This consider
ation carries increasing weight as our world 
changes at a greater pace.
Astutely designed exercises simply cannot 
be solved unless they are truly understood. 
Doing them reinforces the general princi
ples which must be applied, as well as stim
ulating fresh insight. Such exercises contrast 
with those imposed on less fortunate stu
dents. These are exercises in drudgery, 
requiring the student to trundle through 
endless notes seeking something fuzzily sim
ilar which he will then adapt in whatever 
arbitrary way his intuition suggests is likely 
to placate the teacher.
We can distinguish qualitative and quan
titative aspects of the superiority of a quality
Today's teacher faces students who are accustomed to being 
spoon-fed specific instances of general results.
sub-topic of gear selection.
The instructor might seize a body of the
ory distinguishing two categories of gears: 
low (1-3) and high (4-5). Students would 
leam that low gears are for dty driving, high 
gears for country driving. A substantial por
tion of class time would be spent dealing 
with the definition of city. A categoriza
tion of small towns would be elaborated. 
Agglomeration measures would be deve
loped to establish whether a territory of 
questionable nature is of lowor high-gear 
ty pe. Special highway circumstances calling 
for low gears would be examined.
A representative test of the students mas
tery of course material might pose the ques
tion: You are on a private tour of the dty of 
Lima, in Peru. Your guide, an expert in 
operating motor vehicles, is driving you 
around. What range of gears is your car in? 
(Hintwhat type of area is Lima?)
Take the A student aside after the test 
and ask him why one would use low gears in 
Lima:  Cause its a city would be the selfassured reply. The question of what basic 
reason exists for using low gears in a city 
would be greeted with puzzlement initially, 
then impatience.
Press the A student and you will find he 
has understood that one uses low gears in a 
city; furthermore, he can accept, when the 
proposition is put to him, that in a city it is 
desirable that cars go relatively slowly, for 
safety reasons. Tragically, however, the cru
cial connection has been neglected. It will 
come as a total revelation to him that low 
gears are associated with low speeds. This 
insight achieved, an avalanche of trivia will 
fall together and gel into a secure whole. He 
will see why low gears are used on highway 
detours, and why, late at night, when traffic 
is sparse, high gears are permissible in the 
city.
The problem, laughable in this simple 
illustration, is one which not all CMU 
courses are immune to: students not being 
taught to really understand what they are 
doing. Students leam to mimic procedures 
for which they, and sometimes their instruc
tors, dont see any logical rationale.
A great teacher approaches his subject like 
a theoretical scientist or mathematician, 
desiring to pare away inessential clutter, to 
articulate the basic principles and axioms 
from which the rest can be derived. Since he 
is conveying a foundation and appealing to 
creative reasoning faculties, his problem sets 
and tests can pose original questions, rather 
than variations of questions from class notes 
whose solutions were to be memorized.
education. There is the obvious benefit of 
exercising the mind and developing an inde
pendent thinking ability. In addition, 
organized information linked in a logical 
structure is more efficiently and compactly 
represented than a helter-skelter grab-bag of 
facts and techniques. Thus a fixed set of 
skills is more quickly transmitted in the 
former manner.
Many courses fall short of the ideal sug
gested here. One reason is that, although for 
a given quantity of education, course qual
ity varies inversely with total expenditure of 
time (cumulating over teacher and stu
dents), rendering good courses more effi
cient, it also varies direcdy with the 
instructors investment of time, and it is he 
who decides.
Another reason for which we dont 
observe greater exploitation of potential effi
ciency gains is what might be termed an 
underdeveloped infrastructure. Instructors 
sometimes discard the potent tools of 
abstraction and generality because students 
do not cope well with them. In certain cases, 
students difficulties with abstraction 
explain their readiness to charge that a 
course is too theoretical. Theory appears 
irrevelant because the link to applications is 
dimly perceived.
Todays teacher faces students who are 
accustomed to being spoon-fed specific 
instances of general results, students who 
have been encouraged to accept and to pro
duce arguments and rationalizations 
(because Lima is a city!) which are not 
valid. A teacher may be reluctant to unleash 
this sickly fertile inferential process on 
abstract assertions that are not explicitly 
anchored to the specific results he wishes to 
convey.
The neglect of generality is perhaps most 
striking where one would think generality is 
indispensable, in the definitions of technical 
terms. Often, the ambiguous or nonsensical 
definition proposed to students is merely 
a gesture of deference to scholarly tradition, 
a gesture incorporating a quick heave to 
transfer the burden of exposition to a set of 
illustrations which exemplify the use of the 
term.
I have argued that the underdeveloped 
infrastructure influences educational 
methodology. But what development there 
is can also be retarded by certain aspects of 
the students academic experience.
An appreciation of generalization is the 
central, crucial component of the infrastruc
ture referred to here. But students cannot 
deal with generalization if they do not know
how to grasp assertions precisely and 
thoroughly. It is not uncommon for reading 
assignments to have negative effects in this 
regard.
Often a reading assignment, particularly 
one involving journal articles, is beyond the 
students thorough comprehension. The 
intention of the assignment is that the stu
dent capture the gist, or major theme. 
Thus is the habit inculcated of relying on 
vague connotations to interpret text, and of 
insouciandy skipping sentences, para
graphs and passages that are incomprehens
ible. The students illusion that he 
understands what he has read is sustained by 
a superficial treatment of the material, in 
class and on assignments and tests.
The use of Lima-like reasoning also has a 
damaging effect. In the short term, shaky 
rationalizations about why some result is 
true serve as an expedient mnemonic. But 
with each such story that is passed off as 
logical argument or proof, the student is 
made more susceptible to the world outside 
the classroom, where stories are sometimes 
told that do not end happily with correct 
conclusions.
There is a certain mystical faith, prevalent 
in our culture, that the best among us, men 
and women of exceptional character and 
ability, those with true mettle, will over
come all obstacles and inexorably reach suc
cess. I argue that it is plausible that society is 
losing able students, logical and clear 
thinkers who drop out of high school or 
university, unable to withstand the confu
sion they encounter in their textbooks and 
in the classroom. Bad teaching may indeed 
perform a screening function, but it would 
be a feat of optimism to conclude that the 
resultant selection is socially desirable.
The desirability of a clear thinking ability 
does not depend on the claim that it would 
deepen and expand the scope of subsequent, 
specialized education. There are other social 
benefits to which most of us would ascribe 
fundamental value, some of which I briefly 
mention here.
First, in an aesthetic and moral sense, a 
culture is enhanced when it is composed of 
individuals who can examine themselves 
clearly, who can communicate with others 
effectively and examine new ideas critically. 
The essay by George Orwell, Politics and 
the English Language (published in the 
June, 1946 issue of Horizon magazine), dis
cusses the relationship between moral decay 
and imprecise thought and language.
Next, our political system is democratic. 
It is difficult to question the advantages of 
having an educated class that is better able to 
think critically if one believes in the ideals of 
true democracy. The importance of a clearA more discriminating consumer 
likely to undermine our capitalist sy< 
any more than efficient enterprises, rid 1 
obsolete, conventional methods.
###
In my opinion, establishing the in
tructure referred to above wouldconstiti
major advance for education. This could] 
accomplished by incorporating a rig0 
mathematics component and a commu 
tion skills component in academ 
programs.
The misconception that rigorous math 
matics courses (as contrasted 
technique-training courses) are only feasd 
for exceptionally gifted students is prob; 
due to the fact that such courses, in actu 
generally are quite difficult. However, tj 
only reflects our failure to appreciate t 
value of the infrastructure in discipli 
other than math: math courses are desia 
under the assumption that a rigorous r 
reasoning ablity is only necessary for r 
specialists. In fact, rigorous math can I 
taught at any level of difficulty.
Students in such courses leam ho 
construct a proof. They are corrected \ 
they present invalid arguments. They I 
that their intuition can be misleading, i 
what makes superficial sense can be \ 
This makes students less disposed to [ 
sively submit to inadequate argun 
They also leam the value and power of gi 
eralization and abstraction.
I believe such a training is usefully s 
piemen ted by significant exercises in ( 
puter programming. There is somei 
highly instructive about the experiei 
having successive versions of ones 
ingly flawless logic rejected by an o 
machine, in one run after another.
Since the medium of education is \ 
guage, a training incommunicationsk 
the necessary complement to one in i 
and logic. Literal reading comprehei 
and effective writing should be sti 
These are rarely addressed direcdy | 
courses. Students would be taught toa 
reading passages to precisely undei 
what the writer is saying, what he isempl 
izing, how his argument is consti 
what he is implicitly assuming, the sigi 
cance of diction, and so on.
In courses with writing assignments,i 
siderations of clarity and organization] 
typically subordinate to the topic, e| 
corporations management difficultiescj 
James Joyce novel. The course I pK 
would concentrate exclusively on thee 
tive of teaching clear, organized wntin!
By undergoing the exercise of organ 
and expressing ideas themselves, andr 
ing feedback when they are verb 
unclear, students would progress ml
A great teacher approaches his subject like a theorefl 
scientist or mathematician, desiring to pare away inessen| 
clutter.
thinking electorate increases together with 
the potency and complexity of its 
government.
Society benefits economically from origi
nal thinking. Consider the A student 
interviewed above in his new corporate role 
after graduation. It is not inconceivable that 
the daily routine he is called on to perform, 
evaluated in the light of his firms basic 
objectives, is ponderous and inefficient. Will 
the sights and sounds he has retained from 
his tour of Peru lead him to wrinkle his 
nose, to propose more efficient procedures, 
to do the kind of innovative thinking that 
will make his firm more profitable? Or is he 
more likely to be the sort of bureaucrat who 
stills and suspends the movers and shakers 
by his stolid adherence to misguided rules?
ability to understand what they re 
hear. This would naturally lead to an] 
nation to demand sense and motiva 
what they leam. The professor who 
on with inexplicable persistence abowj 
drons of boiling wax and varieties* 
dimension specifications would 
hear ominous rumblings from his* 
To appease them, he would have to 
them see he is putting the power o 
into their hands.
The most damning observation 
make today is the resignation of stu 
the mystery of wise mens teaching5 
life, the existence of a sensible expla ^ 
for tilings is taken for granted. , 
of any concern, questions are asked i
continued 0**

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1984The TartanPage 3
00 watts
WOT enjoys power increase, but they nearly threw away the construction permit
NEIL J. GREENBLUM
non News Editor
for WRCT, 88.3 FM, CMUs student-run 
dio station, most of the waiting is over, 
fhe station decided to increase its power 
)rn jo to the current 100 watts nearly 454 
rs ago, but it was not until the Thursday 
[Spring Carnival that 100-watt program
ing became reality.
The 100-watt construction permit came 
July, and we almost threw it away, 
-ailed Barksdale Garbee, WRCT Chief 
igineer and General Manager-elect.
New equipment includes a transmitter, 
uipment rack, tone generator, and remote 
ntrol system which is microprocessorsed. One of the longest delays, according 
Garbee, was waiting for the equipment 
:k because the first one had been stolen 
iring shipping, and never found.
Things got rolling in July, said Gare, but there were lots and lots of delays. It 
ok only about six evenings and two weends to get the equipment working 
operly.
Formerly Class D, WRCT is now a Class 
radio station (class is related to power, and 
order from lowest to highest is D, A, B, 
(and has gone from our former status to a
station with the full protection of the FCC 
[Federal Communications Commission], 
said Garbee.
WRCT no longer has to worry about 
being interfered with by more powerful sta
tions, confirmed General Manager Roger 
Bishop.
We have to address a wider range of peo
ple, he Said. Well be expanding our radio 
calendar, concert calendar, and public 
affairs programming.
Jumpin Joe Enck, Production Direc
tor, wants more effort put into issues pro
gramming. Weve got to spend more 
energies, be hard-hitting. Enck is currently 
working on a five-part series concerning 
exposure to chemicals in the home, work
place, and environment, to be aired early 
next semester.
The stations overall sound is important 
to Enck, and his concerns come from the 
stations technical side. Weve really got to 
be more stringent on the quality of our inhouse productions. Im concerned with hav
ing a clean sound, with lots of style and 
flavor.
Enck is pleased with The Strombolis, a 
weekly serial produced in-house by Chris
Senate can help and wants 
o be taken seriously
BILL GARRISON
rtan StaffwriterWhat is CMUs Student Senate?Who are CMUs Student Senators? And y does CMU even have a Student Senate? free trip to Skibo 62 will be awarded to yone who can answer correctly all three estions.
Okay, try to get two out of three.
Well, how about just one? Alright, if you 
spell the word Senate well even 
ow in a commemorative LCB card. 
According to John Pane, chairman of the 
ate, this situation isnt too far from the 
th. There arent many people around 
 who do know the answers to these ques-t
s. The senate is not recognized by the ents as an organization that can help  t helping is our job. If the students start ing us seriously then we will have more
power when we ask for something from the 
administration.
Pane has been a member of the senate for 
three years now, and he has seen his share of 
apathy, stagnant committees and lack of 
respect. But this year he feels differently. 
There is some strong initiative being taken 
on the part of our new members this year, 
and that is suprising. Usually during the 
first few meetings new members will spend 
their time just trying to figure out what is 
going on. This years eight or nine new 
members have already started to speak out 
on importnt issues  and thats a good 
sign.
He feels that one of the big problems with 
the senate is its lack of recognition. A lot of 
people dont realize the amount of work that 
is being done by senate members. When you 
continued on page 4
Explaining wisemen's teaching
ptinued from page 2
are put together. If the sheets are 
opled, the beds been slept in; if there are 
| footprints, entry was effected from above; 
lunior cant figure out his storybooks,hes 
?n playing hooky (or theres another
.nation, But in the misty world of 
demia, heads bow reverentially and noteget filled with truth of a uniquely 
[penetrable character.
Emphasize that the training in reasoning 
d language discussed above is proposed as 
infrastructure, the groundwork which,
apart from the other social benefits it brings, 
permits subsequent learning of diverse sub
jects to be more rapid and thorough. It 
should be viewed as an up-front investment 
of time, a period of perhaps two years durwhich no direcdy applicable, subjectspecific skills need be acquired. Such an 
experience would transform the students 
preparedness for career and life, and indeed 
make the education he has undergone a 
privilege.
Uriel Wittenberg is a doctoral candidate 
in SUPA.
oard of trustees elects members
HALE
to The Tartan
l&ht men and one woman have been
cted to terms on the CMU Board ofastees.
Robert Dickey III, retired chairman of the rd of Dravo Corporation; Alvin Rogal, 
^dent of Rogal Company, Inc.; and L. 
Pnton Williams, chairman and chief execVe pricer of PPG Industries, Inc., were 
to life terms on the board.
Elected to two-year terms were Thomas F. 
Faught Jr., president and chief executive 
officer of Ampco-Pittsburgh Corporation; 
Charles L. Fuellgraf Jr., president of Fuellgraf Electric Company of Butler, Pa.; Carol 
R. Goldberg, executive vice president and 
chief operating officer of The Stop 8c Shop 
Companies of Boston, Mass.; and Justin M. 
Johnson, judge, Superior Court of 
Pennsylvania.
The trustrees were elected at the boards 
April 16 meeting.
Peditto, and hopes to see more of this 
innovative programming in the future.
Innovation is also important to Music 
Director Mark Iskowitz. We now have the 
chance to revitalize the floundering Pitts
burgh music scene, and with 100 watts well 
be helping to expose new bands.
According to Garbee, WRCTs range has 
better than doubled and nearly tripled. Lis
teners have called in from points as faraway 
as Wexford, New Kensington, Pittsburgh 
International Airport, and even Butler, 
approximately 30 miles from downtown 
Pittsburgh.
Im starting to get a lot more phone calls, 
even when I dont ask for requests, insisted 
Red Hot Rosa Silver, WRCT disc jockey. 
In fact, several high school students from 
Natrona Heights visited WRCT after hear
ing the station for the first time.
Enck, Garbee, and Iskowitz are most 
excited about what Garbee calls full satura
tion of downtown. Its so nice to be hear
ing WRCT all the way downtown, 
grinned Enck.
There is still an unfinished step in the 
100-watt process. WRCT is waiting for 
acceptance of the final application, which, 
according to Garbee, should be received 
sometime during the summer. Were cur
rently in program testing, which means we 
are testing our ndhnal programming at 100 
watts. There shouldnt be any problems 
with the FCC accepting our application.
Garbee asks that if anyone is receiving 
interference that can be attributed to WRCT 
that he be contacted immediately at 621 - 
9728.
WRCTs future holds the possibility of an 
expanded library, more storage space, and 
possibly a new studio.
Bishop assures there will be no more 
power increases. At least for awhile, 
echoed Garbee.
photo by Neil J. Greenblum
Friday evening disc jockey Wayne Mesard now reaches an audience that covers Allegheny 
County.
COUNSELING CENTER ANNOUNCES CHANGES
With the addition of three new staff members,the 
Counseling Center has extended its hours to evenings 
and Saturdays.As a result, the waiting list no longer 
exists.If you have any questions please call 578-2922 
or x2922 or stop by at the Health Center in Morewood 
Gardens.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 24,1984
One of Senate's problems is lack of recognition
continued from page 3
tell people that youre on the senate they 
look at you as if its a joke. Its bad enough 
that some people dont even know that we 
have a student senate. You start to wonder 
yourself sometimes. You work your butt off
 hours and hours a week with no pay  
and instead of getting noticed, you get put 
down.
Pane is one of 25 senators that make up 
this years board. This number fluctuates 
with the population of the University. Each 
college of the University is given a number 
of senators in proportion to its size. For 
example, CFA and CIT have large popula
tions so they get more senators. Conse
quently, the colleges of H&SS and AMS are 
small in population so they receive less 
representation.
Within the senate two officers are elcted 
from the ranks of senator, the chairman 
(Pane) and the vice-chairman (Hilary De 
Broff). The president of the senate (Bill 
McCormick) is an ex-officio member (as is 
I V?an Walter and Dean Cox) and has veto
power and speaking priveledges but has no 
vote on the senate floor.
The heart and soul of the senates func
tions are in its four standing committees. 
These also have their own chairpersons. 
These committees diligently carry out the 
activities set forth in the senate consul ution 
and by-laws. This is the senate:
 The Rules Committee: Chairman, Eric 
Rocher. This committee makes sure that the 
constitution and all of its by-laws are fol
lowed. It is in charge of recommending 
changes to the constitution if they are neces
sary and determining the eligibility of cam
pus organizations for student senate 
funding.
 The Finance Committee: Chairman, Fran 
Fitzgerald. This committee allocates the 
money to an organization once they are 
claimed eligible. It handles the $200-$300 
budget taken in from the Students Activities 
Fee. It initiated the student-approved activi
ties fee increase of $5.00 from $25.00 a semes
ter to $30.00.
 The Committee for Academic Affairs: 
Chairperson, Cindy Taylor. This commit
tee is responsible for the handling of 
student-related problems, such as studentteacher conflicts, course-availability, etc. It 
holds a campaign each year called the Aca
demic Response program in which the stu
dent and faculty senates work out problems 
together.
 The General Campus and Information 
Committee: Chairperson, Lisa Bruno. This 
committee is responsible for everything that 
doesnt fall under the first three committees. 
It handles problems and suggestions con
cerning libraries, campus telephones, senate 
public relations, announcement, etc.
Pane emphasized student involvement as 
the key to a successful Student Senate. We 
are the government of this campus; we are 
here to help in whatever way we can. But we 
also need help. Students must realize what 
they can get out of the senate. Maybe if we 
were offered some type of reward for doing 
this people might start to notice what we 
have to offer.
According to Pane, the poor voting i 
have a number of causes. But the biggest 0 
is lack of publicity. For this springs 
tion, Pane offered a resolution to ask 
faculty senate to help publicize the sety 
elections. This resolution called for teach 
to take a minute out of their class-time' 
mention the senate elections in Skibo. 
proved successful as the vote turn-out (J 
this spring was a suprisingly high 24% ( 
compared to the 6.7% voter turn-out 
November).
I enjoy what Im doing, Pane 
eluded. The work is hard and the reward j 
small, but we have a lot of good people t 
year, and I am hopeful that somethinggo 
will come out of it all.
Our meetings are always open to i 
public; we hold them every Tuesday at li 
p.m. in the Wherrett room. And for j 
who cant make it to the meetings, thereisj 
senator in our Skibo office at all times du 
ing the week. We want students to comeb 
and talk to us  we want them to knowv 
can help.
Nothing Else Feels Like Navy Flying.
The thunderous roar 
of jet engines rolls 
across the carriers 
flight deck.
Throttles are at 
full power, and youre 
waiting for the signal 
to launch.
Now. The catapult fires. G forces 
press you back into your seat. Suddenly, 
youre flying low and fast over the open 
sea. Zero to 150 in 2.5 seconds.
Nothing else feels like Navy flying. 
Nothing. And when you become a pilot or 
flight officer youre at the very heart of it.
Once youve earned your wings, 
the Navy puts you in full control of a multimillion-dollar supersophisticated 
combination of jet aircraft and electronic 
wizardry.
And Navy training makes sure 
youre up to the challenge. Rigorous flight
training gives you the ______
navigation, aerodynam
ics and other techni
cal know-how you need.
Leadership and 
professional schooling 
prepare you for the
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 346
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton. NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tteam. <0A)
Name________________
Address.
immediate decisionCity_
AgeState.
tYear in College. 
?Major/Minor__
 tCollege/Uni versity__
_______?GPA.
making authority and 
management respon
sibility you have as an 
officer in the Navy.
On the ground, a& 
a Navy officer, you 
work with and supervise 
todays most highly 
skilled aviation professionals. In the air, 
as part of the naval aviation team, you 
have about the most exciting job anyone 
can have.
Its a uniquely rewarding job with 
pay to match. You start at $18,300 a year 
more than the average corporation 
pays you just out of college. After four 
years, with regular Navy promotions 
and pay increases, your annual salary 
climbs to $31,100. Thats over and above 
a full package of benefits and privileges.
Knd out how much more a job in 
naval aviation has to offer. Fill in the
_______________ coupon. No other job
gives you the kind of 
leadership experience 
or fast responsibility 
you get as part of the 
naval aviation team. 
And nothing else feels 
like Navy flying.
! Print) Last
______Apt. #_____
_Zip_
Phone Number.( Are* Cod* I Best Time to CallI
 This i* (or general recruitment information. You do not have to I furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we | know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy poei^ tions for which you qualify jNavyOfficers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

'___________Features.
1uclear Winter
jew evidence suggests that even limited exchange could endanger human species
MEDROW
. Editor in Chief fnce the beginning of the nuclear age, all 
I nuclear war has been treated by most as I risky to consider. But the possibility of a Hear exchange on a small scale has never ! ruled out. In fact, every administration 
. Eisenhower, democrat and republican le has refused to rule out the possibility first strike. However, new evidence sugthat an exchange as small as 100 mis, could endanger the human species, kju has been one of th first to educate on this new possibility called [dear Winter, this past Friday and Satur[in lectures organized by professors CouMcCrae, Morgan, Salomone lirman) and Simon in conjunction with tident Richard Cyerts office. A summary he effects of nuclear war in which 37% ofI world arsenal is used according to the 
LlTAPS, and Dr. Carl Sagan follows.
Lccording to traditional analysis, a blast 
henna 1 radiation, ionizing radiation and 
i immediately kills 1.1 billion people in 
northern hemisphere. Within several 
fiths another 1.1 billion die from toxic 
fcs, radioactive fallout, food shortages, 
Jlical system collapse, epidemics, 
|eased ultraviolet light and psychologitW NoWIOiM AHOfiEf
ft 5PfHDM6 SUPPORT OUTOF
ta A JoB. MYfAMIlY... DEBT..
cal disorders.
The southern hemisphere would also sus
tain some damage, but it would be spared 
the brunt of damage due to weather patterns 
that keep nuclear fallout primarily in the 
north.
However, according to TTAPS, two new 
long-term effects, obscuring smoke in the 
troposphere and obscuring dust in the strat
osphere, would create a Nuclear Winter 
that some scientists, including Sagan, say 
could wipe out mankind in both north and 
south.
Following the blast, raging fires would 
create great quantities of pyrotoxins, includ
ing carbon monoxide, vinyl chlorides, 
oxides of nitrogen, ozone, dioxins, and 
furans, killing far more people than the fires 
themselves. These gases would then form a 
toxic smog that moves with the wind and 
weather, killing as it travels. The gas-smog 
would dissipate only after several months, 
killing more in the West than in the East, 
due to greater concentration of modem, syn
thetic building materials in the West.
The dust and smoke from the inidal blast 
and the resulting fires would then rise to 
great heights in the atmosphere, greatly obs
curing the sun over most of the globe, while 
creating total darkness in the northern hemAMD GWEMY CHILDREN AfVTVRE.
department to broaden its 
cope, offers new course
araes rolutilnaan Staffivriter
MUs History and Language depart11 has broadened its scope and is offering 
lr>troductory course in Japanese next 
'ester. The course idea originated from a 
UP of students who brought it to the 
nil0n of the department. Upon receiving 
request, Dr. Schaefer took the proposal 
he H&SS College Council which readily ,rved it.
^rs Yamada, a native of Japan, will be 
mg the course. She graduated from 
y University located in Tokyo, with a 
m American Studies. She has taughtlishto Japanese students and has used
translating skills in both the States and 
a''; fascinated by language and linguisarna(ia has also studied French, Spanand German.er bas
lentsisic strategy is to find out what the
want to learn and then teach that 
Since the course has never been 
at CMU, Yamada would like to disJapan at all levels; that is, the written
language/communication skills, the artistic 
approach and many other aspects of the 
culture. Currently, she is planning to go 
without a textbook, though newspapers and 
magazine articles might be used.
To start the course, she will give a simple 
lesson on culture, so that understanding of 
the language and customs can be achieved. 
She hopes to end the course with some 
recreational activity  Japanese silk screen
ing. All in all, Yamada is very enthusiastic 
about the class, but she points out that 
theyll need enough students to make it go.
Schaefer emphasized the departments 
willingness to work with students and their 
course requests. He insists that they are open 
to the students needs. He, too, is quite 
excited about this new course and hopes to 
get at least eight to ten interested students.
This twelve unit course which is named 
Elementary Japanese (course number 82- 
171) will meet on Monday, Tuesday, Wed
nesday, and Friday at 9:30 a.m. As Schaefer 
stated, "there is something Japanese for 
everyone.
isphere for up to a year and a half. Such 
darkness would have multiple consequen
ces. First, the usual weather patterns would 
be changed so that fallout radiation and 
obscurment would hit the southern as well 
as the northern hemisphere, contrary to pre
vious belief.
The eco-system would be attacked by the 
darkness also. The lack of sunlight would 
prevent the first link in both aquatic and 
terrestrial eco-systems from carrying on pho
tosynthesis, creating mass starvation.
Soon the darkness would bring tempera
tures plunging downward. Even a very light 
exchange (using .1% of the worlds nuclear 
arsenal or 100 missiles) is predicted to drop 
temperatures 12 to 15 degrees C, while the 
most likely exchange would topple 
temperatures by more than 45 degrees C and 
stay that way for over two years. The impli
cations of such a plunge are numerous. The 
earth would be frozen solid, so most bodies 
would not be buried. Fresh water sources 
would be frozen three feet beneath the sur
face, dehydrating many to death. Many 
plants, especially those growing near the 
equator, would die in the cold. And the 
frozen earth would kill most dormant seeds, 
eliminating the possibility of repopulation 
of vegetation in the near future. Even the 
slightest of conflicts could kill the entire 
Canadian wheat harvest, while the likely 
exchange would make harvest in the north
ern hemisphere impossible for at least two 
years, assuming seed and technology are 
both available. All of this would occur with - 
in the first few days.
Several days later, a combination of 
nuclear fallout, dirt that was picked up by 
the blast and contaminated with radiation, 
and snow would begin to fall. Many survi
vors of the first few days in less populous 
areas would come down with radiation sick
ness. Food and water contamination or 
direct contact could cause sickness. Acute 
damage to bone marrow would cause peo
ple to become more vulnerable to infectious 
disease. Infants in the first two trimesters of 
pregnancy would be subject to mental and 
physical retardation. Animals would be 
even more susceptible to radiation sickness 
due to lack of shelter and greater sensitivity 
to the stresses of nuclear war.,The fallout 
would begin to dissipate in several days, but 
radioactive snow would continue to fall for 
up to a year.
Within weeks, epidemics and pandemics 
would begin to sweep the earths surface. 
The extreme cold, unburied bodies and 
bone marrow damage would con bine with
The Polaris missile was thought to give the 
U.S. the ability to survive acceptable dam
age due to its near invulnerability to attack.
lack of available medical facilities, an unus
ual resistance of some disease carrying paras
ites, including rats, to radiation and other 
factors to urge on the plague.
After about three months, just as the 
smoke is beginning to clear in the upper 
atmosphere to allow some light in the 
northern hemisphere, the effects of an ozone 
layer 50% shredded by radiation begin to be 
felt. The ozone is a layer in the atmosphere 
that protects us from the suns radiation. So 
just when the radiation is beginning to ease 
up, it gets worse again.
When you add up all the factors involved, 
the total picture looks rather dismal accord
ing to Sagan and friends. All consequences 
taken into consideration, the most likely 
nuclear exchange would in all likelihood 
exterminate mankind in the northern hem
isphere. Canada, the entire United States, 
Europe, the Soviet Union, southeast Asia, 
the Middle East and most of Africa would 
suffer varying stages of darkness, cold, radia
tion, disease and lack of food and water that 
would leave those areas a humanless deso
lation. Light and warmth would return to 
the Eastern and Western worlds within 
about two and a half years, but nobody 
would be there to see it.
In the southern hemisphere, due to the 
changes in weather patterns, although cold 
and darkness would be less severe, massive 
climatic and environmental disruptions 
continued on page 7
photo by Bob Fishel
Yamada, a native of Japan, will teach new Japanese course.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 24, 1984
FINE REPRODUCTIONS
fiagnoL ^toapfuc *2oc
3517 FORBES AVENUE . OAKLAND 
683-1188 MON-FRI 9:00-5:30  SAT 10-2
Father Bob Clark, Vocation Director
IColumban Fathers 
St. Columbans. Nebraska 68056 
I / want to help build a better life for people in 
| the missions Please send me information
 about becoming a Columban missionary 
! priest Same
I 
I| Address
! Ci,y
Birthdaie
I hhEducation
We invite you 
to keep that hope 
aliveand growing.
Write to us for 
more information.
Activists protest senator's support of foreign aid
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Special to the Tartan
NEW YORK  We had crammed our
selves into an elevator at the bottom of the 
office building at 1 Pennsylvania Plaza and 
someone hit 16, hoping that the doors 
would close before the security guards 
pulled us out. But the guards had frozen the 
power in elevator bank C, so we were stuck 
there. The activists argued with a security 
official whom I had earlier heard comment 
that the guards should all dress up in 
fatigues and take care of the demonstration 
outside on 34th street. 30 people or so were 
splashing in a circle through the freezing 
March 13 rain to protest U.S. Senator Alp
honse DAmatos support of a Reagan 
Administration proposal that would supply 
$93 million in emergency aid to the military 
regime of El Salvador, and $21 million of 
the same to the counter-revolutionaries who 
are trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan 
government.
The Senate Appropriations committee, of 
which DAmato is a member, originally
added the two aid package amendments to 
a $150 million African drought aid bill. The 
action was considered dirty politics by lib
eral congressmen, who would have had to 
deny aid to destitute Africans in order to stop 
the Central American amendments in Con
gress. After much juggling of the aid from 
bill to bill, the amendments were finally 
passed. Although DAmato aides had 
nothing prepared on the Senators position 
concerning Central America, in all the votes 
concerning the amendments, DAmato 
voted with the President.
The military aid may benefit the guerillas 
fighting the Salvadoran government as well 
as the government itself. Reagan said that El 
Salvador needed emergency military assist
ance because the Government forces were 
running out of ammunition. Amoldo 
Ramos, North American representitive of 
the FDR/FMLN agreed with Reagans 
assessment, but offered this explanation: 
Not only are the Government forces inept, 
they are also corrupt. We (the guerillas) buy 
ammunition from Government forces in the
The Children of 
the World are the 
hope of the world -
We are Columban 
Missionaries 
working with 
the poor.
Activists at DAmatos office protesting aid
field. Ramos maintained in a recent forum 
debate that the United States, and not 
Cuba, is the largest arms supplier in the
region.
After more argument and a call to Senator 
DAmatos office, the group was permitted 
to go up and speak with his aides, perhaps 
because it would have been hard to dislodge
photo by IV
to El Salvador.
a dozen activists and a press contingent^ 
an elevator. His aides knew ahead of t 
that people from several anti-war and ( 
tral American support groups weregoin 
demonstrate against his voting habits. 1 
had they known that the 12 activists in | 
elevator were seeking civil disot 
continued <
SIDDDQBIBBQDEIIDDQDBRS-E-L-F S-E-R-V-I-C-E
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
SUMMER CAM?* 
STAFF WANTED
Emma Kaufmann Caflip 
Morgantown, 
West Virginia
sponsored by
JEWISH COMMUNfl1 
CENTER
 C/Hinsdors  Ski Instruct1^
 Small Craft  Office Manage
Instructors  Swim
 I'nit Heads  Maintenance
USE YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE TO GO PLACES
 Whatever your personal and professional 
goals, you can probably gel there faster in the 
NAVY Our various officer programs offer inter
national scope and wortd-recognized prestige
 Navy leadership and executive management 
training go hand-in-hand to prepare you for an 
exciting role as a Naval Officer
 Upward Mobility is more than just a promise, 
its a reality Promotions come regularly as your 
experience and knowledge increase Many of to
days leaders in business, government and the 
professions have successfully completed a ca
reer as a Naval Officer
 Naval Officers receive pay and allowances 
worthy of a professional and thanks to extra 
benefits such as free dental and medical care 
housing, and commissary and exchange privi
leges you keep more of what you earn
 30 days paid vacation each year allows you to 
enjoy some of the fringe Denefits and travel 
opportunities available through the Navy
 All of this is ;ust a part of the story only a Naval 
Officer who has experienced il for himself can tell 
you what it s really like
Toll-Free l-XOO-242-1716
Your options and opportun
ities are as varied and chal
lenging as your interests 
Navy Officers are:
 Aviators who fly F-14 
TOMCATS
 Engineers on Nuclear 
Submarines
 Computer Specialists
 Doctors
 Business Managers
 Procurement and Fiscal 
Managers
 Civil Engineers
 Lawyers
 Meteorologists and much 
more

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1984The TartanPage 7
rotestors fear invasion of Et Salvador by US troops
ed from page 6
t in DAmatos office, they may not 
been so amiable.
arn outraged by the U.S. Government 
ps being introduced into the 
uran-Salvadoran border region, said 
Chapman of the Nicaragua Support 
ect as we were crammed against the 
wall of the elevator. Im afraid of the 
bility of an invasion of El Salvador by 
United States if this military support 
-ues. The other activists were from 
ar Resistors League, the Committee 
lidarity with the People of El Salvador, 
nited States Anti-Imperialism League, 
the Central American Solidarity Comof New York University, 
e were met in the hall in front of 
atos office by Howard Lim, a smilreasonable man who invited the group 
the reception area and agreed to see one 
-st at a time. The Senator was in 
ington that Tuesday and missed the 
ent.hen the activists attempted to push way into DAmatos office, Lim and ther men tried to push the door closed, ere resisted by a wall of human flesh, the men couldnt close the door, they instead to hold their ground by wedgveral chairs against the door. The sits on.Amatos aids were getting angry. The sts were single minded in their ch: Were here to stop the war in
l America. We dont want to hurt We just want to talk to you. Mean, they tried to push their way farther e inner office.
t upset the aids was that the activists 
t fight fair. They wouldnt obey any of
the accepted rules of social decorum.
We want a dialogue with you, said the 
activists.
Not when youre sitting on the floor like 
a dalmation, said Lim. He sat on one of the 
chairs that blocked the door, and pretended 
to read a magazine, a sour look on his face.
A legal intern who was working in the 
office and who refused to release his name
arrest.
The course of events veered from what the 
activists expected when police brought in 
long rattling chains, spaced evenly at inter
vals with a handcuff. They had several sets 
of these; enough for the twelve activists hud
dling on the floor. The activists had planned 
on being carried out by the elbows one at a 
time but these communal devices of conWere here to stop the war in Central America. We dont 
want to hurt you. We just want to talk to you.
tried to carry on a debate with the demon
strators, but couldnt find any common 
points of agreement with them. He stopped 
debating after a while, after seeing a repor
ters microphone catching his comments.
While waiting to be arrested, the activists 
chanted, sang songs, pounded on the walls, 
hung political posters from Al DAmatos 
framed awards and pictures, and quibbled 
with the Senators office people over little 
things. The aides wouldnt let a womm go 
to the bathroom, and the activists accused 
the aides of stealing a hat from Seth Tobocman, one of their number.
In the hall outside of DAmatos office, 
City Police gathered. They were more 
relaxed than the building security cops, who 
at the onset of the civil disobedience action 
had their night sticks drawn and ready. 
They joked with each other to pass the time 
before the bust.
Sergeant Richard ODonnell of the Man
hattan South Precinct came into the recep
tion area and announced that everybody 
would be arrested unless they dispersed. The 
activists linked arms. He repeated his offer 
and then announced that they were under
straint altered those plans. One activist real
ized that the trip to the paddy wagon would 
be painful and chose to walk instead.
The rest of the people refused to walk, and 
were handcuffed together. John Zirinsky, 
legal representative for the twelve, tried to 
convince the police to carry the people out
one at a time, but without luck.
The first group were dragged down the 
hallway by their handcuffs, which cut into 
their wrists, so they decided to walk after a 
few yards. The second group of five were 
dragged the whole way down the hall to the 
elevators.
Youre injuring me, youre cutting my 
wrists, screamed one activist. Others joined 
in screaming and shouting and the police 
eased up.
The activists were thrown on top of each 
other in the paddy wagon, and the doors 
closed. The wagon pulled away, shaking 
and rocking as the activists pounded on the 
inside walls and shouted their slogans. They 
were jailed, charged with civil trespass, and 
released. If convicted, they will face a maxi
mum penalty of 15 days in jail and perhaps 
a nominal fine. Im told that they should be 
able to handle that.Mere 1 % of world's arsenal to 
cause deadly Nuclear Winter
continued from page 5
may be triggered there (the southern hemis
phere) as well. Many surviving the less 
harsh conditions would starve anyway, due 
to the sudden loss of grain and other food 
from the north. And according to the 
TAPPS study, about 100 megatons (each 
megaton is equal to one million tons of 
dynamite) of missiles would be sent to the 
southern hemisphere, anyway.
Even the exchange of a mere 100 Soviet 
and American missiles, a mere 1% of the 
worlds arsenal, could cause a Nuclear Win
ter, setting a process of death in motion that 
politicians have considered unacceptable
for years. Incidentally, a recent Soviet study 
found the same results.
#
Congressional deliberation of the coming 
years defense budget begins next week. 
Anyone interested in expressing a view point 
on the military budget should write to: 
Senators 
John Heinz Arlen Spector 
United States Senate 
Washington, DC 20510
Representatives 
Bill Coyne Joseph Gaydos 
United States House of Representatives 
Washington, DC 20515
Do you know who your senators are?
you dont, come meet them Wednesday April 25th
All students and faculty invited!
This is an informal meeting so come ask questions, meet the senators, and find out what Senate is about!
5:30CIT............ .DH 2210
4:30MCS.......... .SH 224
4:30H&SS......GREGG
4:30CFA.......... .CFA 211
5:30AMS........... SKIBO 13

---------------------------------------------------

JL
WERE
GIVING AW AV
COLLECTORS
SERIES
T5HIKT5
* CHECK YOUR PENNIES
,*2ocI_ PP i ts
YOU MAY BE A WINNER !
CMU BOOKSTORE
Presenting For Your 
Obvious Enjoyment
HOT SHANPV
in the Wherrett Room on 
Saturday, April 28 -8:00pm
MUSIC
Originating From
The Land Of Ireland and Also
New sFaNwt uNrNwE of niwmaSr
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.rn. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
LARqE 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
$2.47 + TAX
* 
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out.
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave.. Oaklandtele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
on-Kin Twins spin win in Hanin's opinion
KAR ENCOC
Assistant Entertainment Editor
0ie for a quick riddle ... When are three 
lated people twins? When they are Tom 
.y; Alannah Currie, and Joe Leeway, 
,r known collectively as the Thompson 
Twins. The three, along with 
four others for backup, 
appeared Friday night at the 
Stanley Theatre, and showed the 
cnee of nearly 2900 that they are more 
taining in person than in vinyl, 
mittedly, many bands sound better live 
studio, but few have the stage presence 
tage show which the Twins brought to 
iburgh. All three members seemed to 
enjoy themselves on stage, having 
fun with each other as well as with the 
|ence. Apart from some occasional chophy, the show came straight from the 
s hearts; they moved about on the 
freely and often (thanks to wireless 
t microphones), 
usically, the Twins were flawless. Their 
ing band, featuring a drummer, bassist, 
two keyboard players, reproduced the
o sound the Twins recorded with great 
sion, at the same time giving added 
and life to most numbers. Currie scurup and down on the stage to different 
of percussion, and demonstrated her 
talent on the xylophone. Leeway also 
pered about, but was mostly content 
d a synthesizer or a set of bongos. BaiIccasionally sported a guitar, but most of 
lime he whizzed back and forth across 
|dge of the stage.
ost surprising was the excellent producwhich went into the several ballads of
Thompson Twins photos by Adam Hanin
(1. to r.) Joe Leeway, Tom Bailey, and Alannah Currie gave an absorbing performance at the Stanley on Friday.
the evening. It is rare that a band known 
mostly for its danceable songs is able to effec
tively perform a slow, melodic piece. But 
Sister of Mercy, Storm on the Sea, and 
their present hit Hold Me Now, were all 
startlingly well done. Each began with Bai
ley on an electric piano playing chords 
which slowly evolved into the song to be 
performed. Baileys voice was perfect; he hit 
every note on the head, and filled each song 
with emotion. Also well done were the back
ing vocals of Leeway, who was able to hit all 
of his falsetto notes without seeming to have 
difficulty.
Highlights included their slew of hits
such as In the Name of Love and Lies, 
during which the band members could not 
stop moving about. Also mentionable were 
the greatly appreciated Doctor! Doctor!, 
and You Take Me Up which began with a 
harmonica duet between Bailey and Lee
way, and was illustrated with projected 
shadows of hard laborers in different work
ing positions. Another highlight was the 
performance of We Are Detective which 
featured a spy-like figure reading a news
paper on stage, and more eerie projected 
shadows.
The audience so greatly appreciated the 
Twins, that they were brought back for two
encores, ending the show with a repeat of 
Doctor! Doctor!. During this reprise, Bai
ley seemed to sing about the audience rather 
than some unknown lover when he sang:
I saw you there
Just standing there
And I thought I was only dreaming
you.
But Bailey wasnt really dreaming.The love 
he felt from his fans was real. The perfor
mance the Twins gave in return was real as 
well. In the present invasion of British 
dance-oriented music, there is without a 
doubt, no twin for the Thompson Twins.
Aqua Madonnas to perform 
in College of Fine Arts
pnoio uy v^arolyn Speranza.
[ Aqua Madonnas are: Marge Judge (Back); Diane Schweitzer, Kristen Bjaastad, 
Kuharic, Janet Metzger (Middle, left to right); and Allison Hunter (Front)
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The Aqua Madonnas are going to school. 
Their performance art piece School Play 
(with Mr. Professor), will be performed on 
Wednesday, April 25 at 11:30 p.m. in front of 
the Dean of Fine Arts office.
In short, the Madonnas are at it again. If 
you havent ever seen the Aqua Madonnas 
perform, dont miss this concert, it may be 
the last live performance for a while. The 
Aqua Madonnas may be going to school in 
performance, but in real life theyre all 
graduating.
Five of the Madonnas are Art majors: 
Kristen Bjaastad, Allison Hunter, Marge 
Judge, Katie Kuharic and Janet Metzger. 
The other Madonna, Diane Schweitzer, is a 
drama major.
After getting their chance to perform on 
WRCT, for which they give thanks to Bob 
Konuch, they decided on a new and interest
ing concept  a non-group, one that 
wouldnt perform. Theyd put up signs,
make appearances, but never do anything. 
Fortunately, their Tuesday radio appearan
ces brought them enough recognition that 
they would be forced to sing.
So now they do ... well, what they do. Its 
overdone, overblown, overwrought silli
ness. They sing songs from such diverse 
resources as The Mickey Mouse Club," 
Doris Day and Shirley Temple records. 
They do a very straight-faced performance 
of Kitsch, watered-down entertainment 
that is a cross between hilarious and maca
bre. You have to see it to believe it.
The Aqua Madonnas (they got their 
name from Dean of Fine Arts Akram 
Midani) have since performed at bars, par
ties, the Mattress Factory, the IT art festival, 
and most recently at Spring Carnival. They 
even filmed a video in a supermarket. At 2 in 
the morning' Using the cashiers.
They plan to continue this coordinated 
craziness, at least into the summer. And they 
can still be heard on WRCT every Tuesday 
at midnight.
'ass Appeal to close Pittsburgh Laboratory Theater's season
Nburgh Laboratory Theatre will pres
sa Appeal, by Bill C. Davies, April 
| aY 26 at 420 N. Craig Street, Oakland. 
ss Appeal is a two-character drama 
with the confrontation between 
J lim Farley, a comfortably estabniddle-aged priest, and Mark Dol1 young seminary student. Farley stays 
loved and popular among his parilters in order to mask his increasing lack 
| rsonal faith that has developed through 
f service. Where Farley is smoothly 
 Dolson, however, is idealistic and 
|'ive. rhese opposite personalities colwhen Dolson is assigned to work 
[lly under Father Farley, 
tuned in the Lab Theatre production
are, respectively, Robert Toperzer and Jeff 
Paul. Toperzer, who has worked at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse and the American Ibsen 
Theater, recently appered in Rose at the Lab 
Theatre. Paul, a Lab Theatre regular, has
appeared this season in DA, and is best 
remembered for his portrayal of Lenny 
Bruce in Lenny in 1982.
Mass Appeal, which is the final produc
tion in the Lab Theatres 1983-84 season,
will run Thursdays through Sundays at 8:15 
p.m, plus Sunday matinees on April 29, 
May 6, and May 20 at 2:30 p.m. Advance 
reservations should be made by calling 621- 
2876.
Forbes Street Gallery to house Chamber Music
re
The Camegie-Mellon University Music 
Department presents An Evening of 
Chamber Music, April 25 at 8:00 p.m. in 
The Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes 
Avenue.
The program will include the Quartet VI 
in F major for flute, clarinet, bassoon, and 
horn by Rossini; Concertino (for French 
horn quartet) by Alexander Mitushin; Suite
for woodwind quintet by Charles LeFebvre; 
Partita for Wind Quintet by Irving Fine; 
and a world premiere performance of 
Vaebwortl: His First Adventure for six 
winds by American Composer John P. 
Falcone.
The performers include Cynthia Meyers, 
flute; J. William King, clarinet; Chad Cognata and John Falcone, bassoons; Tracey
Kesselman and Harold Smoliar, oboes; 
Glenn Quarrie, saxaphone; and Peter Hensel, Stewart Troyer, Greg Smith, Liane 
Sharp, French horns. All groups are 
coached by Harold Smoliar, English horn 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
For further information, please contact 
Cynthia Meyers, 682-3846 or 578-2372 or 
Harold Smoliar, 241-4243.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 24, 1984
Famous pianist to play for "In Concert for Peace"
Andre Watts, 36 yearkild internationally 
heralded pianist, joins Andre Previn and 
members of the orchestra in a benefit perfor
mance, May 1. The benefit, IN CONCERT 
FOR PEACE, will take place at 8:00 p.m. in 
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts.
While in Pittsburgh, Watts will play 
Rachmaninoffs Piano Concerto No. 2. The 
concert program also includes Brahms 
Symphony No. 4, and Threnody for the 
Victims of Hiroshima by Penderecki.
Watts was introduced to the public in 
January 1963, at age 16, when Leonard 
Bernstein presented him to CBS viewers as a 
soloist for a New York Philharmonic 
Young Peoples Concert. His rendition of 
Liszts E-Flat Piano Concerto was so 
impressive that Bernstein called him three 
weeks later to act as a substitute for ailing 
symphony pianist Glenn Gould. The teen
age Watts received a standing ovation from 
audience and orchestra members alike, 
reported by wire services throughout the 
world.
Watts played at a Presidential Inaugural 
Concert and has performed for numerous 
other heads of state, as well, including the 
King, Queen,and Queen Mother of Greece, 
Archbishop Makarios and King Juan Car
los of Spain and Queen Sophia. In 1976 
Watts was among 20 outstanding Ameri-Dance Alloy 
holds audition
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will hold 
auditions for male and female dancers at its 
own studio in Pittsburgh and in New York 
City. The Pittsburgh audition is Saturday, 
May 5, at 3:00 p.m. at the Alloy Dance Cen
ter, 5604 Solway Street. In New York City, 
the audition is Monday, May 7, at 3:00 p.m. 
at the 31/21 Studio, 31 West 21st St.
cans invited to lunch with Queen Elizabeth
II on her yacht, Britannia, during her Bicen
tennial tour of the United States.
IN CONCERT FOR PEACE is open to 
all members of the community wishing to 
express their support for peace and a concern about nuclear arms. Funds raised from 
the concert will go towards increasing pub
lic awareness of nuclear arms control issues.
The groups sponsoring the concert in 
Pittsburgh are: Physicians for Social 
Responsibility (PSR), the Lawyers Alliance 
for Nuclear Arms Control, the Christian
Associates of Southwestern Pennsyl 
National Council of Jewish Women 
World Federalists, and Peace Links
Tickets may be purchased at Heinz 
box office or by calling Ticket Ch; 
392-4900.
Vanities explores three girls' lives
The play Vanities, by Jack Heifner, fol
lows the lives of three young women from 
high school in the early 60s, through col
lege, and into middle age in the 70s. In the 
course of the play, each of the characters 
comes to face the emptiness and shallowness 
of their lives, and each deals with them in 
different ways.
The Scotch n Soda production stars Cla
rissa Narotzky, Christine Mosier, and Anne 
Svedberg, all freshmen at CMU. Narotzky 
also directs the play, a task made easier by 
the fact that Vanities has only three charac
ters, in three scenes, and a very sparse set.
The play will run this Sunday and Mon
day, April 29 and 30, at 8 pm in the Wherrett
Room in Skibo. Tickets will be sold at the 
door before each performance, in the lobby 
of Baker Hall each afternoon, and the lobby
of Morewood Gardens each evening, ft. 
vations may be made by calling the fw 
n Soda office at 578-3522.
Inks' sculpture comes to Hewle
Edward A. Inks, a graduate student in the 
Art Department at Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity, is showing his sculpture in the Hewlett 
Gallery at CMU from April 29 to May 4.
Inks, who is completing his work for a 
Master of Fine Arts degree in Sculpture with a 
minor in drawing, has taught Sculpture I 
and Design at CMU.
He came to CMU after graduating with 
bachelors degrees in art education and
sculpture from Indiana University 
Pennsylvania.
Inks took part in the 1983 Three Rj 
Arts Festival as an Artist in Action 
on-site sculpture construction. He 
shown his work previously at the Alleglu 
County Court House Gallery, the 
burgh Plan for Art, the Three Rivet 
Festival and the Western Regional 
Show.
Fuzztones swirl in to play at Decade
The Fuzztones will be at the Decade Wednesday night.
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
60s psychedelia is back, and the 
new promoters of the swirling, bounq 
ic are the Fuzztones. Aptly outfitted,! 
attire and in instrumentation, this five 
band has been touring the country pla 
their interesting blend of psychedelia 
blues.
Sporting a new single, Bad News 
els Fast, the Fuzztones will be mala 
brief stop in Pittsburgh to perform 
Decade on Wednesday, April 25. T 
definitely a show to be seen.
To all students: WANT TO KEEP YOUR PARENTS INFORMED BUT TOO BUSY TO WRITE?
Send them a Tartan subscription!
GRADUATING SENIORSDont miss The Tartan just because youre leaving schoo
Mail in the subscription form any time before the next semester and get The Tartan delivered!
j I want a subscription for ? one semester $10 ? two semesters $20
I
I mailing address_______________________________________________________________
I
I billing address___________________________________________________________________
I (if different)
I_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________Send to The Tartan, Box 17, Scheniey Park, Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1984The TartanPage 11
STEVEN SPIELBERG
OMES
 APARTMENTS
 SMALL BUSINESSES
 HOUSES FOR RESAL
Special Spring Cleaning
t NATIONAL CENT.. 
EDUCATIONAL TESTING 
TheNTNwspa rpoTfhf
CnNawhgi Scoretakp tho   __op 25%
^MU Art professors participate in painting exhibit
Allegheny 
omens 
enter_
Medcil Center East BMg. 
211 North Whitfield St. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
PHONE 412/362-2920
jgnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your options
fing and confidential information 
Inseling, pregnancy lesting and 
|ted services.
cont i412u731-2420
urgh 731-2420
tington, PA 225-6494 
natives to Abortion, Inc.
a non profit organisation
Cute.
ENJOY SUMMER. SEE GREMLINS. JUNE 8
(ttsburgh Plan for Art will be hosting 
exhibits that open April 28th and conthrough May 27th. On display will 
he work of Michael Morrill in his first 
erson show at the Plan, and a special
11 | tion of four artists work entitled A
Refocus on Landscape.
Michael Morrill, an associate professor at 
the University of Pittsburgh with an M.F.A 
from Yale University, will be showing his 
new paintings on the first floor. His paint
ing, like his sculpture, is minimal as well as
geometric in nature, concerning itself with 
linear division of space and canvas.
On the second floor will be a collection of 
paintings by four artists in a show titled A 
Refocus on Landscape. This exhibition, 
which is travelling from Baltimore, is
ew collection comes to Hunt Library
. Hunt Institute for Botanical Docution at Camegie-Mellon University 
xhibit Still-lifes and nature studies 
the George J. McDonald collection 
April 16 to June 15. 
is private collection of mostly 19th cenVmerican still-lifes, nature studies and
CT needs 
mmer help
", CMUs student owned and operxjmpus radio station is looking for 3nal staff for the summer. All interJtudents are invited to a meeting next 
ay, May 1, 1984, at 8 p.m. See next 
Tartan for more details, Current staff 
ling over the summer should also 
IWRCT is funded by the CMU activianimal paintings, never publicly exhibited, 
includes a generous sampling of works by 
New England artists, particularly of the 
Providence, Fall River and Springfield stilllife schools: George Whitaker, Edward C. 
Leavitt, J.C. Spencer, Bryant Chapin, Abbie 
Luella Zuill and Jonas Joseph La Valley. 
Also included are works by P. Dieffenbach, 
Anna E. Hardy, George W. Horlor, Raoul 
M. de Longpre fils, Emile van Marche de 
Lummen, David Emil Joseph de Noter, 
George Stevens and A.J.H. Way.
McDonald, previously with the U.S.
Government in Washington, D.C., gathered 
his collection over a period of 25 years, 
mostly in Washingron and on trips around 
his home state of Rhode Island.
A 19th century painting of apples by 
Dieffenbach has been reproduced in full 
color as the exhibition poster.
Open to the public free of charge, the 
exhibition will be on display in the Pent
house of the Hunt Library from 8:30 am to 
noon and 1 to 5 pm, Monday through Fri
day. For further information, contact the 
institute at 578-2434.
funded through the National Endowment 
for the Arts, Camegie-Mellon University,
and Pittsburgh Plan for Art. Elaine King 
(assistant professor of Art History at 
Camegie-Mellon University) as curator of 
this show, has chosen the artists and their 
work in an effort to depict contemporary 
interpretations of the landscape theme. The 
show includes: Gregory Amenoff, a New 
Yorker who will be showing for the first 
time in this area, David Humphrey, another 
New Yorker, Anne Elliot, from Ligonier, 
whose recent sculpture at the Public Theatre 
coincided with their production of K2, and 
Jim Denney, professor of Art at CamegieMellon University, whose neo-expressionist 
abstracts have been attracting much 
attention.
The gallery is free to the public, and is 
open from 10-5 Tuesdays through 
Saturdays, and 1-5 on Sundays.
ULEGHENY WOMENS 
CENTER
n out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Mcu^iing After Treatment
 Birtn Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
For: Camegie-Mellon
imn!?r,broehuri and an invitation to a Fraa
Write: a*,C8l,To,,Fn!e 800-222-TEST
ftonalCentar tor Educational Testing I Rd. NE Suita 526,n, GA 30326
Clever.
Mischievous.
Intelligent
Dangerous.
GtEMUNS^
STARRING ZACH GALLIGAN 
PHOEBE CATESHOYT AXTON POLLY HOLLIDAY FRANCES LEE McCAIN 
MUSIC BY JERRY GOLDSMITH-EXECUTIVE PRODUCERS STEVEN SPIELBERG 
FRANK MARSHALL KATHLEEN KENNEDY WRITTEN BY CHRIS COLUMBUS 
PRODUCED BY MICHAEL FINNELL-DIRECTED BY JOE DANTE
jh TECHNICOLOR'
^AMBUN 1 READ THE AVON PAPERBACK | A WARNER
(NTtKIAINMfT
FROM WWNCR BROS
COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

1-800-555-8111
tall this toi I-five number 24 hours a day.
Make a good buy 
before you say goodbye.
Buying your leased phone now saves you time and money next term.
Pittsburgh 
126 S. Highland Avenue
This year, dont leave for home 
without your phone. Buy it before sum
mer and save yourself some time and 
money. Buying your AT&T leased 
phone now means youll have your 
phone with you the very first day back 
to class.
To buy the phone youre leasing, 
just call AT&T Consumer Sales & 
Services toll-free number. Or visit
any of our AT&T owned and operated 
Phone Centers. Its that easy. So call us 
before you say goodbye. Then unplug 
your phone and take it with you. And 
have a nice summer.
 IWl. A I K: I Inlonu.tiion Systems

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Washout:
gy DUANE GALBI
fartan Staffwriter
Last Saturday, as the rain was making life 
miserable for those on the Midway, down 
l^low on the CMU track, the track team was 
making life even more miserable for John 
Carroll University and Thiel College as the 
team added two impressive wins to their
record.
The expected duel against John Carroll 
was a washout. John Carroll, after the first 
of three rain delays, decided it wasnt worth 
getting their shirts all muddy. They packed 
up and headed home. As it turned out, 
though, Thiel should have followed John 
rrolls lead. They wouldnt have done 
much worse. In the field events Thiel was 
ble to score a few points; however, the Tarstill had their share of victories Jeff 
in was a double winner as he captured 
th the shot and discus, and Jim Rogers 
leaped 43 feet 10 inches to first place with a 
ault of 13 feet that was even higher than his 
lear-weather performance the week before. 
When it was time for the Tartan cinderen to perform, Thiel was almost no where 
be seen, and only one runner from Thiel 
dually scored any points in the individual 
vents. Sanford Rivers, who works in the 
dmissions office, who must have the toughJohn Carroll forfeits after three rain delays, 
while Thiel gets ripped by CMU distance corps
Itans
est right ear in Pittsburgh, made a quick 
switch from being the offidal buggy starter 
Friday and Saturday to start the track races 
for the Tartans.
In the mile, though, the outcome was 
assured even before the gun was fired, for 
Thiel failed to field any competitors in the 
event. Mike Short, Chris Shaffer and Frank 
Matousek along with freshmen Curt Meuse 
and Tom Felmley all finished in a virtual ue 
for first place in 5:00. Art Muzik won the 880 
in 2:04 and Gary Marchionna broke the rib
bon in the 120 intermediate hurdles in 16.5 
seconds as the Tartans began to run away 
with the meet. Bob Krouse was a double 
winner for the Tartans as he captured both 
his specialities, the 440 and the 440 interme
diate hurdles.
In the 220, Rob DiGioia got off to a good 
start and was able to hold off the Thiel 
runner who had beaten him in the 100, ther
eby adding another first to the Tartans col
lection. In one of the last events of the day 
Bob Dusch splashed home to a gutsy first 
place finish over his fellow teammates. 
Dusch made his presence felt early as he took 
the lead and pulled away from the rest of the 
field. His time of 15:28 was amazing consid
ering the conditions of the track.
photo by Peter Rosenfeld
CMU runners braved the mud to defeat Thiel College.
eckley shoots for 100th consecutive win
uy BRUCE GERSON
to the Tartan 
Gary Meckley, head cross-country and 
ack and field coach at CMU, will be shoot
ing for his 99th, 100th, and 101st consecutive 
pual meet victories at 1 p. m., Saturday, 
Vpril 28, when his Tartans host Hiram Cole, Case Reserve University, and Robert 
lorris College.
Meckley, in his 17th year at CMU, has led 
he Tartans to 54 straight dual meet victories 
cross-country and 44 consecutive dual 
leet wins in track and field. The last time 
-MU lost on the cross-country course was 
In 1979 to Bethany College, and its been
seven years since the Tartans fell in track
and field on April 20, 1977 at Case Reserve. 
A win over Hiram, Case Reserve, and 
Robert Morris Saturday will give Meckley 
101 dual meets in a row without a loss.
Meckley, a native of Kane, PA, has posted 
a 166-21 cross-country record and a 104-24 
track slate, making his combined mark 270- 
45 for a winning percentage of .857.
Under Meckley the Tartans have not only 
dominated the PAC, they have also been 
well represented in NCAA regional and 
national championship events.
CMU has won five PAC cross-country
championships in the past six years (1978, 
80, 81, 82, 83), five straight PAC track and 
field titles and six consecutive PAC relay 
championships. The Tartans have quali
fied for the national cross-country meet 
every year since 1974 and have had a 
nadonal qualifier in track and field annu
ally since 1977. CMU captured the NCAA 
Eastern Cross-Country championship in 
1980, finished second in 1981 and 1982 and 
fourth in 1983. At the national cross
country meet the Tartans placed 12th in 
1980, sixth in 1981, 18th in 1982, and 12th in
1983. Among private institutions participat
ing in cross-country CMU has ranked in the 
top five since 1980.
Meckley has produced 62 conference 
champions, 26 All-East selections, 54 
national qualifiers and eight AllAmericans.
A graduate of Kane High School, Meck
ley won the state pole vault championship 
as a senior with a record vault of 13 feet 3 
inches. He enrolled at the University of 
Pittsburgh on a track scholarship in 1960, 
and in his first year was ranked third among 
freshman pole valuters by The Track and 
Field News. As a sophomore he placed 
fourth in the prestigious IC4A Indoor 
Championships and was named to the AllEast team.
Meckley earned a bachelors degree in cor
rective therapy and physical education at 
Pitt in 1964, and three years later received a 
masters degree.
Meckley began coaching at CMU in 1967 
after serving as an assistant track and cross
country coach at Pitt from 1965-1967. Since 
1978 he has also been assistant athletic direc
tor at CMU.
3kt-Golf not an easy sport

-, 
photo by Erik Horn
 distance corps has always been a strength of Gary Meckleys teams.
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
We all know that golf is an easy sport. 
Just go out and play 18 holes whenever the 
weathei is nice, golf for free, and every now 
and then play with some other people in 
tournament or a match. Its not a real sport 
like football or basketball, right?
Wrong.
To be on a golf team requires lots of work, 
time, and dedication to the sport. Here at 
CMU there are 14 such individuals who are 
willing to work, sacrifice the time and dedi
cate themselves to the sport of golf.
They practice Tuesdays and Thursdays 
rain or shine at Longview, a 20 minute ride 
from CMU. Between driving to and from 
the course and playing 18 holes of golf, prac
tices usually last five hours or more.
The teams schedule consists mainly of 
tournaments, with dual and triangular 
meets also. The highlight of our year is the 
PAC championship, which is a tourna
ment, so we set up a tournament schedule to 
condition the kids for tournament play, is 
how Coach Don Poluszek explains it. He 
also notes the practically of tournaments 
versus dual meets: If were going to travel 
75-100 miles we dont just want to play one 
team. With tournaments we get more expo
sure and more experience playing more 
than one team.
The team began practicing indoors in 
early March, and began its regular season of 
play with the Spiedel Tournament on April 
11. Thus far the team has competed against 
27 teams in three tournaments and the only 
division III team to beat it was Allegheny, 
last years Division III national champions.
CMU won the Spiedel and Hiram invita
tional tournaments with Paul Bangor and 
Pete Bombik as medalists, respectively. In 
the Slippery^ Rock Invitational, a tourna
ment comprised mainly of Division II and
I-AA schools, CMU finished in the top half 
of the 16 teams competing.
Six players represent the team in a match 
or tournament. The six who compete in any 
given match are the ones with the best six 
scores in the practice round immediately 
preceding the match. For the PAC tourna
ment, Poluszek averages all the players 
scores from practices, tournaments and 
matches and takes the top six averages.
Theres usually competition on the team 
for the fifth and sixth spots, which gets eve
ryone on the team out there practicing. This 
competition helps the team, said Poluszek. 
He also stressed the teams ability and wil
lingness to work."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 24, 1984
Tigers' pitching to launch Detroit in AL East
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
The American League has a major league 
and a minor league. The Eastern Division 
has five bonafide contenders. Any of them 
could win the World Series. The Western 
Division has the Chicago White 
Sox and the Chicago White Sox. 
The rest of the division is made 
up of weak teams, none with 
more than two or three quality players.
This is the AL, where East meets West 
and wins, except when the 1984 playoffs 
rolls around.
And now, without further adieu, the 1984 
American League scouting reports, in the 
predicted order of finish:
Detroit Tigers  Well, its two weeks into 
the season, and the Tigers are 9-0, so its easy 
to pick them to finish first. They already 
have a six-game lead over the Orioles. I 
really did write these down before the sea
son. Really.
Starting pitchers make this division spe
cial, and make this team special. Jack Morris 
(20-13, 3.34 ERA) has already pitched a no
hitter this year. Dan Petry (19-11, 3.92) was a 
stopper for the Tigers as well. The Bengals 
re-signed free agent Milt Wilcox (11-10,3.97) 
and have Juan Berenguer (9-5, 3.14) and 
Dave Rozema (8-3, 3.43). The Tigers picked 
up lefty Willie Hernandez (8-4, 3.29, 8 saves)
Correction
The Tartan sports department sends its 
apologies to SDC and CIA. The SDC 
women finished in fourth place with a time 
of 3:00.5, contrary to last weeks report. 
CIAs Black Magic rolled just five windows, 
not the nine we reported last week. We apol
ogize for these errors, for mistakes about 
buggy are large mistakes indeed.
from Philadelphia to shore up a bullpen 
that already had Aurelio Lopez (9-8, 2.81, 18 
saves) and Doug Bair (7-3, 3.88, 4 saves).
The Tigers lost a good, young outfielder 
in Glenn Wilson (11 HR, 65 RBI, .268 B.A.) 
and a versatile one in John Wockenfuss 
(9, 49, .269) in orderto get Hernandez, but 
they have plenty of talent to fill in the holes.
The reason I believe the Tigers will win is 
basic: I believe a team should be built up the 
middle; defensively, offensively, and on the 
mound. The Tigers are stronger up the mid
dle than any team in baseball. Lance Parrish 
(27, 114, .269) is the best catcher, all around, 
in baseball Lou Whitaker (12,72,.320) and 
Alan Trammell (14, 66, .319) comprise die 
best double play combination anywhere. 
Chet Lemon (24, 69, .255) is no weakness in 
centerfield.
The keys to this team are rightfield and 
third base. The Tigers picked up two solid 
first basemen from the Giants, Darrell Evans 
(30, 82, .277) and Dave Bergman (6,24, .286). 
Evans also may play third. Barbara Garbey 
(14, 59, .321 at AAA Evansville), the only 
Cuban refugee to make the majors, will be 
given a shot at third base. Kirk Gibson (15, 
51 .227) will play right and try and fulfill his' 
"Mr. Potential" image. Larry Herndon (20, 
92, .302) will be in left following a quiet but 
great year.
If Gibson and a third baseman come 
through, this Tiger team could run away 
with the division. But dont count on 
anyone running away with this division.
Baltimore Orioles  The World Series 
Champs are off to a 4-10 start. Dont worry, 
these pitchers are too good to keep losing.
The Orioles had the best starting staff in 
ihe division at the beginning of last year. 
Then Jim Palmer (5-4,4.23) and Mike Flan
agan (12-4, 3.30) got injured, and they 
brought up this kid named Mike Boddicker.
So Boddicker goes 16-8 and leads the league 
with a 2.77 ERA, then wins two key games 
in the playoffs, then wins rookie pitcher-ofthe-year. Scott McGregor (18-7, 3.18) had 
another Cy Young type year. Storm Davis 
(13-7, 3.59) is a good young pitcher. The 
bullpen is led by Tippy Martinez (9-3, 2.35, 
21 saves) and Sammy Stewart (9-4, 3.62, 7 
saves).
Now, ladies and gentlemen, the terrific 
twosome. Eddie Murray (33, 111, .306); awe
some power, hits for average, gold glove 
winner. Cal Ripken, Jr. (27, 102, .318); 
Ripken won the Most Valuable Player in 
the American League last year. Dont look 
for another shortstop on Baltimore, Ripken 
played every inning of every game last year, 
an incredible feat.
Add to these players incredible depth, platooning at every position except the two 
stars, second base and designated hitter (Ken 
Singleton: 18, 84, .276). You have a winning 
ballclub.
If everyone pitches as they are able to 
pitch, watch out. If not, this could be just an 
ordinary team. I think the Tigers may be 
better.
Toronto Blue Jays-----A fun team to
watch. The scary part is that they are so 
young. Pitcher Dave Stieb (17-12, 3.04) is 
just 26. Centerfielder Lloyd Moseby (18, 81, 
.351) is only 24. First baseman Willie 
Upshaw (27, 104, .306) will be 27 this wee
kend. A relative veteran. 24-year-old Jesse 
Barfield hit 27 homers in 377 at bats. He 
would have hit 40 for a full season. All-star 
second baseman Damaso Garcia (3,38, 307) 
is just 27.
But they are a good team already. Stieb, 
Jim Clancy (15-11, 3.91) and Luis Leal (13- 
12,4.21) make up the nucleus of a good staff, 
which now includes Dennis Lamp (7-7, 
3.71, 15 saves with the White Sox). The Jays
also picked up Willie Aikens (23, 72, .302) to 
DH with Cliff Johnson (22,76, .265), as soon 
as Aikens comes off his drug suspension 
Solid management and patience has 
brought this team a long way, and Bobby 
Cox has done a great job nursing these kids 
With a good year from the bullpen and 
several platoon players, this team could take 
the title.
New York Yankees  Im from New 
York. I see this team play more than any 
other. And they baffle me. Position by posi
tion they might be the best in all of baseball 
But, as usual, that wont be enough.
If you remember, one of the the Blue Jays' 
strengths which I listed was solid manage
ment. This is where the Yankees are very 
weak. George The Panic Artist Steinbrenner will be sure that the Yanks are fighting, arguing, and team dissention is 
running rampant.continued on page 15
photo courtesy of The Sporting News j 
Harold Baines of the Chicago White Sox,
Get that Greatft Loo ft,
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 
^aimons
WONTMENE CESSA
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon.. Tun., Wed. 10-7 
Thurv, Fri. 10-9 
Sat 9-6687-5500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
257 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!
Pittsburgh 
Clean City 
Committee, Inc.
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Completing Second Year Undergraduate Studies
SCHOLARSHIP & SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Cleveland Pneumatic Company is seeking two persons for its newly established 
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Scholarship Program.
To qualify, you must:
 be completing second year studies;
 be an Engineering (Mechanical or Industrial) major; 
 have top academic credentials including strong mathematics studies;
 be a permanent resident of the Greater Cleveland area (family residence within 30 
miles of Cleveland);
 have an interest in the Manufacturing Engineering field.
Additional desirable credentials include: ^
 demonstrated skills or experience in Manufacturing Engineering;
 manufacturing work experience;
 knowledge of the aerospace industry.
We are offering a scholarship for up to $6000 plus summer employment for students 
who qualify for third and fourth year studies in the Manufacturing Engineering 
Programs at Boston University (Boston, MA) or Weber State (Ogden, UT).
To apply, send a letter of interest to:
Linda Urmetz, Cleveland Pneumatic Company, 3781 East 77th Street, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H.
Pneumo
Cleveland 
Pneumatic
Landing Gear__

---------------------------------------------------

April 24, 1984The TartanPage 15
Jays could fly high; pitching depth hurts N.Y.
ntinued from page 14
Xhe Yankees have the stars, but they are 
upid. Plain dumb. Management seems to 
in the Twilight Zone. For your approval: 
Dave Righetu (14-8, 3.44 and a no-hitter), 
his man pitches well all year as a starting 
tcher. So Steinbrenner moves him to the 
allpen in order to fill the hole left by the 
eparture of Goose Gossage. So now there is 
hole in a not very deep starting rotation. 
Tim Foli. Why? The Yankees had Andre 
obertson (1, 22, .248), Roy Smalley (18,62, 
75), Toby Harrah (9, 53, .266 with Clevend), Bobby Meacham (9, 60, .262 with 
Columbus), and Keith Smith (8, 38, 
58 with Nashville). Robertson, who has a 
nooth glove, was injured in a tragic acci
dent last year and his shoulder was a ques
tion mark coming in to this season. So the 
Yanks only had four shortstops. Oh no, we 
better pick up another one. So Steinbrenner 
got Foli (2, 29, .252 with the Angels), and 
then Harrah from Cleveland. If Meacham 
and Smith are such great prospects, why not 
give them a shot. Better yet, pick up a 34-year 
old from California and when Robertson 
comes back you can bench Foli so he too can 
be unhappy. The worst part is that they 
traded reliable reliever George Frazier for 
Harrah and relief pitching prospect Curt 
Kaufman for Foli to further open the gash 
in their bullpen. Stupid.
Two good moves. Phil Niekro (11-10,3.97 
with Adanta) was signed to be the number
photo courtesy ot t he Sporting News
Cai Ripken, Jr. (r.) and Eddie Murray of the Baltimore Orioles.
two starter, and Mike Armstrong (10-7, 3.86,
3 saves with Kansas City) was acquired to 
help the porous pen. Niekro has pitched 
well, but Armstrong has been injured, leav
ing a spot open for righthander Jose Rijo 
(15-5,1.68 with Ft. Lauderdale in A ball, 3-2, 
2.68 at AA Nashville). Rijo is just 18, as is 
outfielder Stan Javier, who was bom Sep
tember 1, 1965, becoming the first major 
leaguer younger than me. Scary.
So now the Yankees have signed Oscar 
Gamble. OK, Ill stop. But you get the pic
ture. Where will Don Mattingly play? No 
where, yet. But Mattingly (4, 32, .283) will 
play.
Dave Winfield (32,116, .283), Ken Griffey 
(11, 46, .306), Willie Randolph (2, 38, .279), 
Butch Wynegar(6, 42, .296), and Ron 
Guidry(21-9,3.42) will not make this team a 
winner. Steve Kemp(12, 49, .241), Don Baylor(21,85, .303), and Ray Fontenot(8-2,3.33) 
might, if they can come through with a 
bang.
Just be glad I didnt go off on Omar 
Moreno.
Milwaukee Brewers  Starting pitching 
again is the key. Injuries have taken their 
toll, as has age. Don Sutton (8-13, 4.08) is 39, 
Mike Caldwell (12-11, 4.53) is 35. Moose 
Haas (13-3, 3.27) had a great year, but got 
hurt. Pete Vuckovich (0-2,4.91) pitched just 
14 innings. Bob McClure (9-9,4.50) was also 
injured. Rookies Bob (no, not the famous 
one) Gibson, Tom Candiotti, and Jaime 
Cocanower, who pitched well, have yet to 
prove themselves.
Pete Ladd (3-4,2.55,25 saves) pitched well 
in relief, and Rollie Fingers has returned 
from an injured elbow. Along with Tom 
Tellman (9-4, 2.80, 8 saves), the three make 
up a very strong bullpen.
The starting lineup is awesome, led by 
first baseman Cecil Cooper (30, 126, .307),
shortstop Robin Yount (17, 80, .308), and 
DH Ted Simmons (13,108, .308). Paul Molitor must come back strong from an injury to 
his elbow. He can hit but he cant throw. 
Roolde Randy Ready (1, 6, .405 in a brief
1983 stint) will fill in until Molitor returns.
Jim Gantner (11, 74, .282) is probably the 
most underrated second baseman in base
ball. Charlie Moore (2, 49, .284) and Ben 
Ogilvie (13, 66, .280) will be tested by Dion 
James (8, 68, .336 at AAA Vancouver) and 
Mark Brouhard (7, 23, .276) in the outfield.
Catcher Jim Sundberg (2, 28, .201) was 
acquired after a very poor year in Texas to 
pick up the slack behind the plate. But the 
lack of pitching will kill this team, no mat
ter how good new manager Rene Lachemann is.
Boston Red Sox  Worst pitching in the 
division, and they have traded away John 
Tudor, their best pitcher, for another power 
hitting outfielder, Mike Easier (10, 54, .307 
with Pittsburgh). The Sox already had Jim 
Rice (39, 126, .305), Tony Armas (36, 107, 
.218), and Dwight Evans (22, 58, .238). They 
have the hitters, not the pitchers. This 
almost looks like a Steinbrennerian move, 
although Haywood Sullivan is probably 
just as bad. Bob Ojeda (12-7, 4.04) is not an 
ace starter. Its too bad Bob Stanley (8-10, 
2.85, 33 saves) cant be cloned.
The Sox are glad to have Wade Boggs (5, 
74, .361), the greatest pure hitter in the game 
today, bar none. They hope Jackie Gutierrez 
can take over at shortstop to replace the 
inept Glenn Hoffman (4, 41, .260).
The key to this team is pitching, and that 
is why this team might finish sixth, if they 
beat out the Indians.
Cleveland Indians  The team has a little 
pitching, a little offense, a litde defense, and 
a lot of speed. But speed doesnt win divcontinued on page 16
Fall Registration for
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
Wed. ApRil 25,
ThuRS. ApRil 26.
9 AM " 5 pivi
-NMlhT UNMM
by lac H&SS AcAdEMic AdvisoRy Center

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanApril 24, 1984
Indian success can't continue on speed alone
continued from page 15
isions by itself.
Neal Heaton (11-7, 4.16, 7 saves) is a good 
young pitcher. Rick Sutcliffe (17-11, 4.29) is 
solid. But thats about it, unless Bert Blyleven (7-10, 3.91) can come back from an 
injury.
The Indians have a lot of guys who can 
get on base, but only one, Andre Thornton 
(17, 77, .281), who can drive them in. So the 
Indians moved potential RBI-man Pat 
Tabler (6, 65, .291) to first base and benched 
on-base man Mike Hargrove (3, 57, .286). 
Then the Indians got Brook Jacoby (25,100, 
.315 at AAA Richmond) from the Braves to 
help.
Other newcomers include Tony Bemazard (2, 26, .262) and Otis Nixon (0, 41, .291 
at AAA Columbus), who will both step into 
starting roles. The Indians have a good 
young club, including potential superstar 
Julio Franco (8, 80, .273) at shortstop. But 
they play in the AL East. In any other div
ision, the Indians would be contenders. 
With two years experience, another power 
hitter and a relief pitcher, the Indians will be 
contenders.
Western Division:
Chicago White Sox  World Series time 
for the White Sox. Why not? They are going 
to coast to their division title while the East
ern champs will struggle until the final
game.
The Chisox have the best starting rotation 
in baseball. Cy Young Award winner 
LaMarr Hoyt (24-10, 3.66) is, in my estima
tion, the second or third best pitcher on the 
Sox. Both Richard Dotson (22-7, 3.23) and 
Floyd Bannister (16-10, 3.35) have better 
stuff. Now add to that Britt Bums (10-11, 
3.58) and you have a great staff. Now who is 
the fifth guy. Some old stiff named Tom 
Seaver (9-14, 3.55 with the Mets). Now you 
have the best staff.
Now, do you want to be scared. This team 
with the great pitchers led the league in runs 
last year. They can hit, too. Carlton Fisk had 
86 RBI. That was fourth on the team!
Ron Kittle (35, 100, .254) would have had 
more RBIs if Greg Luzinski (32, 95, .255) 
had knocked in fewer runs ahead of him. 
Luzinski would have knocked in more if 
Harold Baines (20, 99, .280) had knocked in 
fewer in front of him. Who would have 
knocked in more if Fisk, well, you get the 
picture.
Leadoff man Rudy Law gets on base, and 
Julio Cruz does too. The White Sox had the 
second best base stealing percentage in base
ball. Law (3,34, .283) stole 77 bases and Cruz 
(3, 52, .252) had 57.
They are not a great fielding team. They
are OK, but so what. Add to this already 
awesome lineup Tom Paciorek (9, 63, .307) 
and Greg WTalker (10, 55, .270) and you have 
a first base platoon of 19 homers and 118 
RBI.
If you have lots of money, or a ranch, bet 
the Chisox in the West.
Texas Rangers  A good, young team 
that led the American League in ERA last 
year. So they did what a good team should 
do to improve, and traded from their 
strength. John Butcher and Mike Smithson 
were traded to the Twins for power hitter 
Gary Ward (19, 88, .278).
That will complete an outfield that could 
compete with anyone. Centerfielder George 
Wright (18, 80, .276) is one of the best young 
players in the league, Leftfielder Billy Sam
ple (12, 57, .274, 44 SB) is the teams leadoff 
hitter. Larry Parrish (26, 88, .282) will now 
be the regular DH.
Charlie Hough (15-13, 3.18) leads a good 
pitching staff, but not good enough. Dave 
Stewart (5-2, 2.14 with Texas, 5-2, 2.96 with 
L. A.) is also tough, but this team is not good 
enough up the middle. They are weak at 
catcher, where Ned Yost (6, 28, .244) arrives 
from Milwaukee, and also weak at second 
and short. Wayne Tolleson (3, 20, .260, 33 
SB) is mediocre at best,and Curtis Wilkerson 
is a rookie at short.
Did you ever consider 
serving as a
priest?
...a life style of 
commitment and 
self fulfillment?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh
111 Boulevard of the Allies. Pittsburgh. PA 1 5222
File Photo
1984 - 85 IM President Rob Fleischman.
Excitement!
The challenge youve been waiting for, hoping for, training for, is just around 
the corner. Soon you could be working on the leading edge of one of AMDs 
high-performance technologies.
Multiproduct solutions for Local Area Networks
Developing new CAD Resources
 Advanced Bipolar process to double circuit density
 Advanced telecommunications products
With your BS, MS or PhD in Electrical Engineering, Solid State Physics, 
Materials Science or Computer Science, youll find all the technological 
excitement your career can handle at AMD. And all the rewards. We will 
pass $550 million in sales for fiscal 1984 and our sights are set on break
ing new records.
If you crave the excitement of the worlds fastest growing semiconductor 
company...
Send your resume to Toni Florian, Manager, College Recruiting, 
Advanced Micro Devices, Dept. CMT, 901 Thompson Place, P.O. Box 
3453, Sunnyvale, CA 94088. Or call TOLL FREE (800) 538-8450, ext. 
4138 from outside California, or (408) 749-4138 inside California. An
equal opportunity employer.
Advanced 
Micro Devices
Oakland As - Perhaps the most improve I 
team in the division. But when you impr0v 
very bad, you get mediocre. They do hav 
Rickey Henderson (9,48, .292,108 SB). Thevj 
also have Carney Lansford (10, 45< .3 , 
Davey Lopes (17, 67, .277) isnt bad, nor is I 
Mike . Heath (6, 33, .281). Thats about it I 
They got Joe Morgan (16, 59, .230) an(j| 
yanked Bruce Bochte out of retirement! 
Dwayne Murphy (17,75, .227) hits for poWer| 
but not average. The same goes for newKl 
acquired Dave Kingman. Mediocrity al| 
around.
If young pitchers come through, the A'$i 
could finish second.
Kansas City Royals - We all know the| 
story. Great team turns to drugs and falls 
apart. Last years starting outfield is gone I 
although suspended Willie Wilson y 
return. The other starters are rookies.
The phenomenal George Brett (25, 
.310) is hurt, and Greg Pryor, his replace-! 
ment, is no George Brett. The Royals picked! 
up Steve Balboni, who hit 32 homers with] 
Columbus and the Yankees last year.
Don Slaught (0, 28, .318) is a singles hit! 
ting catcher. You dont find too many sin-1 
gles hitting catchers.There is a good reasi 
for that.
Frank White is the number three hitte 
until Brett returns. A .260 hitter with 
power is not a good number three hitter.
Reliever Dan Quisenberry (45 saves)  
put this team in fourth place.
continued on page 17IM report
Todays agenda is some old and some no 
business. First, congratulations to 
Kiebler of the Mission for being selected 
the MVP of basketball. Also, more han 
shakes to ATO-Ateam for defeating ATO 
Bteam in callpool. Now, the new: 
co-rec badminton, and team badmintoi 
will be played this Thursday at 7:00 p.ni 
Finally, one last note of congrats this toRoj 
Fleischman, who will be the Intramuu 
Board President for 1984-85. Good lud 
Rob. Your roommate will be right behim 
you.
IM report is edited by Sean Quinn.
VD Testing
Affordable 8c Confidential 
EVENING Hour Services 
(formerly the Pgh. Free Clinic) | 
call 661-5424
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
frM Pregnancy Testing
For a confkbrfiial friend cat
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562^
Beaver County 843-06
Mon Valley 409
Butler County282*1200
PREGNANT?
And you didn't moan 
For a free pregnancy test 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-198

---------------------------------------------------

nm
ARNON MILCHAN Presents A SERGIO LEONE Film 
Starring ROBERT Oe NIRO ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA"
Aiustrn* JAMES WOODS ELIZABETH McGOVERN JOE PESO
BURT YOUNG k-joe* TUESDAY WELD 1 TREAT WILIAMS -*,0w
tax immm EJMO MORRICOK i.. CLMOO MMQM ? SOOO LEONE.
LEONMDO 0HVWUTI PIERO Oe BERMROI. EWICO HDWLI fWUCO MCN1I FRMCO FEMM
Produced by ARNON MILCHAN Directed by SERGIO LEONE9- A LADO COMWKNV RELEASE
wo m son mma anM soMNio 
mmi  am* tcaus
OPENS JUNE 1st AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE.
April 24, 1984The TartanPage 17
AL's Western Division mediocre at best
ntinued from page 16 starting centerfielder. He is a rvwivntinued from page 16
Maybe
Minnesota Twins - Not a bad team. Not a 
t team .They have good power, but little 
itchingThey are very young. Kent Hrbek 
[6 84, .297) is tough. Tim Teufel (27, 100, 323 with Toledo) is a good young prospect. 
John Butcher (6-6, 3.51) and Mike Smith~n (10-14, 2.91) will help on the mound, 
ut they gave up their number one out
sider in Gary Ward. Ken Schrom (15-8, 
.71) had a great year.
Tom Brunansky (28, 82, .227) hits home 
ns, as does Gary Gaetti (21, 78, .245). 
ickey Hatcher hit .317 last year..
No pitching will hurt this team. They are 
Iso very boring to watch.
California Angels - They could be good 
nough to finish second.But their starting 
itching is the worst in the American
-ague.
Rod Carew (2, 44, .339) is a great hitter. So 
s Fred Lynn (22,74, .274), as is Doug DeCins (18, 65, .281).
Rookie Gary Pettis is supposedly the
starting centerfielder. He is a speedy young 
hitter who will help.
Reggie Jackson (14, 49, .194) had a horri
ble year. He must return to form in order for 
the Angels to do anything.
Watch rookie shortstop Dick Schofield 
(16, 94,.284). He could be another great 
young star.
Seattle Mariners - Better, but still pitiful. 
And they have benched last years team 
MVP Pat Putnam (19, 67, .269) inorder to 
play Ken Phelps, who hit well in AAA last 
year (24,82, .341). Mistake.
Good young arms are led by Matt Young 
(11-15, 3.27) and Jim Beattie (10-15, 3.84). 
This is the only strength of this team.
Gorman Thomas (22 homers) is a leftfielder who cant throw. Barry Bonnell (10, 
54, .318) will help.
There isnt much more to say.
Outlook: White Sox will defeat the Tigers 
because of their pitching and power, and 
then will defeat the Padres in the World 
Series.
Then again, I could be wrong.
photo courtesy of The Sporting News
Outstanding catcher Lance Parrish will lead the Tigers bid in 84.
As boys, they made a pact to share their fortunes, their loves, their lives. 
As men, they shared a dream to rise from poverty to power. 
Forging an empire built on greed, violence and betrayal, their dream 
/ would end as a mystery that refused to die.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial._______________________
Student Senate aims for new productivity
Students have complained for years that Stu
dent Senate doesnt do anything. Look for that 
to change.
Since elections several weeks ago, a new 
sense of cooperation and communication has 
begun to grow in Senate. When things began 
shifting direction, some quarreling took place 
within Senate. But such in-fighting is only to 
be expected when an organization shifts from 
the traditional path, and bickering seems to 
have been quelled.
General Campus and Information, a com
mittee some Senators considered eliminating 
only a semester ago, is now lining up numer
ous projects with the aim of better representing 
students through communication. Already
chairman Lisa Bruno has made great strides in 
improving relations between Senate and other 
campus organizations.
Academic Affairs, under the direction of 
Cindy Taylor, has also gotten into the com
munication business. Taylors academic 
response program has already drawn both 
positive and negative feedback from students 
about teachers and channelled it to department 
heads, administrators, and the teaching center.
But perhaps most encouraging is the leader
ship and initiative demonstrated by Student 
Government President Bill McCormick. 
McCormick, in an attempt to focus Senates 
goals for precise action, has introduced the
idea of creating a Steering Committee. Such a i 
committee would not give Senate any greater 
power but would create more effective poliq 
by eliminating factionated fragmentation.
In order to better implement policy, McCor | 
mick would have senators trained in leadership, group theory and communication with| 
administration.
However, Senate can hardly represent stu l 
dents without input. Students wishing to voice! 
an opinion can find senators in the Senate 
office in Skibo 59 during various hours (see ad 
on page 7) or can attend regular Senate meet
ings Tuesday nights at 7 p.m. McCormicks 
Steering Committee will be discussed at I 
tonights meeting in the Wherrett Room.
New student government president writesFaculty course evaluations worth your time
By Bill McCormick
Its that time of year again.
No, I dont mean Spring Carnival or the 
push that happens a few weeks before finals. 
Its time to fill out the Faculty Course EvaI luations (FCE).
Big deal, you say. Well, it is. 
f' Its a chance for you to write you
views on paper, for the record, 
and have your anonymous opinions seen by 
administrators, faculty, and your fellow stu
dents. Many people complain about their 
academic environment. Heres a chance for 
your complaints to be heard.
You dont like the FCE? Well, there are 
many other options for you to make your 
complaint known. First, try your professor. 
Believe it or not, professors would like to 
hear from you. Thats what they invented 
office hours for. Afraid of your grade? Slip a 
note under his door. If your prof doesnt
listen, go to your department head.
There are ways that you can communi
cate your concerns through students as well. 
Every department has a SAC (Student Advi
sory Council) which is a liaisonbetween you 
and your department. Find out who your 
SAC representatives are and talk to them.
Student Senate has an entire committee 
devoted exclusively to Academic Affairs. 
Just drop a note in the Academic Affairs 
mailbox (behind the Skibo Info Desk) or get 
in touch with Cindy Taylor. I guarantee 
that your views will be heard and passed 
along to someone who will act on them.
Finally, there is a university creation 
called the Teaching Center headed by a very 
responsive gentleman named Ted Fenton. 
The Teaching Center (BH/PH 228A, 
x2896) is a great place to register your 
comments.
Whats the point?
1)There are many ways for you to com
municate your views to people who will 
listen and act.
2)Nothing will change without your 
effort.
P.S. To be really effective, give a compli
ment along with your criticism. If no critifeedback encourages good performance.
I am in the Senate office (Skibo 59) every I 
Monday and Thursday from 6:30 to 
p.m. If you have an idea, complaint, compii-1 
ment, or question, stop by or leave a note in | 
my mailbox behind the Skibo Desk.
Bill McCormick is president of Studenti 
Senate and will be writing a weekly column I
cism is due, just pay the compliment. Good for The Tartan.Shapiro blasts Reagan, Mondale, Hart, Quadafi
Abolish monopolyReturn Jrwhey to free market
By Dan Tobias
In my last column, I commented on our 
governments debasement of our money. At 
the end of the column I stated that I would 
bring up alternative monetary systems this 
p week. Thus, I will now explore 
| such systems.
Basically, the most important 
step is abolish the governments 
monopoly on issuing money. Government 
fiat money inevitably leads to inflation. 
While it is true that at present inflation is 
not a major problem, this situation is likely 
to be temporary. Even now, inflation still 
continues, although at a lower rate than a 
couple of years ago, and it will no doubt 
start escalating again soon, given the 
increasing government deficits.
After all, with taxation at back-breaking 
levels already, the public will not tolerate 
very many tax increases. Meanwhile, special 
interest groups iowl at the slightest cuts in 
their pet programs. Thus, the government 
tends to print more money to pay its debts.
Therefore, I propose returning the issu
ing erf money to the free market, where it 
originated. Anybody should have the right 
to mint coins and issue banknotes, but 
nobody should be forced to accept any par
ticular form of money. Under such a system 
it is likely the public will refuse to accept any 
money that is not backed by some tangible 
good, such as gold or silver, which can be 
claimed on demand by presenting the bill.
If somebcxly is dishonest and issues bills 
without backing them with a sufficient 
quantity of valuables, then people will even
tually call his bluff by attempting to 
red ptiin tb' H!!s. When the issuer is unable
to redeem them, the bills would lose their 
value. Thus, the workings of the free market 
would eliminate such unscrupulous issuers 
of money relatively quickly. Unfortu
nately, some people would come out as los
ers, being caught holding worthless 
banknotes when the issuer went bankrupt. 
But then why shouldnt the principle of 
caveat emptor (Let the buyer beware) apply 
to money as much as any other good? If you 
accept money issued by some fly-by-night 
operator, you are taking a risk, just like 
when you invest in a speculative stock.
Besides, under the present system every - 
bodys dollars are gradually losing their 
value; they are worth less than one-tenth of 
what they were worth in 1940. It is unlikely 
that a company issuing money in the free 
market would be able to survive very long if 
it did even a small fraction of the unscrupu
lous things our government has. And even 
when a particular brand of currency col
lapses, it would not ruin the entire economy 
of the USA, as would happen if the dollar 
were to collapse. People holding other 
forms of money would be safe.
What would be likely to remain, after an 
initial unsettled period in which the market 
takes shape, would be a few reputable blue 
chip issuers of money, which people regard 
as the standard. They would probably be 
denominated in a standard manner to facili
tate pricing; perhaps in terms of ounces of 
gold or silver. There would also be many 
private mints issuing gold or silver coins 
which can circulate directly. (There are 
already some such mints. I presently have a 
one-ounce silver coin issued by a company 
continued on page 19
By Stuart Shapiro
Once again I was insufficiently motivated 
to devote an entire column to a single topic. 
Hence, the scattered musings of a slightly 
deranged mind.
 One can only marvel at the 
sheer audacity of Ronald Rea
gan and his cronies. Apparently 
their idea of a bipartisan foreign 
policy consists of Ronnie and the boys call 
-ing the shots while Congress remains deaf, 
dumb, and blind. Actually, given the extent 
to which this Administration feels unen
cumbered by ethical or legal niceties, its 
rather amazing they havent found more 
ways of simply bypassing Congress. If 
nothing else, at least I can take pleasure, as 
so many others have, from the development 
of a genuinely bipartisan foreign policy con
sensus in Congress. From Ted Kennedy to 
Barry Goldwater, liberals and conservatives, 
Democrats and Republicans, have closed 
ranks in telling our imperious leader to stuff 
it.
 Im sick and tired of watching Walter 
Mondale and Gary Hart, not to mention 
other Democratic leaders, handle Jesse Jack
son with kid gloves. If any white candidate 
refused to disassociate himself from a sup
porter who admired Hitler and got off on 
making death threats, that candidate would 
be blasted from all sides. I resent the fact that 
this sort of crap is tolerated from a black 
presidential candidate simply because he is 
black. The obvious implication is that we
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Iartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those o/The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
shouldnt hold black candidates to the san 
standards of behaviour we expect of while 
candidates. We can also do without 
kind of prejudice.
 It was about time for Colonel Qad 
to raise his ugly head again, and he surtj 
didnt disappoint me. The brouhaha att 
Libyan embassy in Britain is actually oneol| 
his milder exploits, but it serves to illustrate 
that the good Colonel is just as psychotica 
ever. Its almost enough to make you wist 
the CIA was still in the assassination 
ness (assuming, of course, theyve gottenoul 
of it.) Qadhafi makes even his Soviet spoil] 
sors nervous.-
Perhaps someday the United States 
Soviet Union will join forces in a demo 
continued on Daae 1S|
TheThrfcn
Editor in Chief.................................Ric Medfl
Managing Editor............................Susan Pfff
Business Manager........... ...............Karen Tyla
News Editor..........................Neil J. Greenblu
Features Editor.........................Neal W. Johnsto
Entertainment Editor......................Mark
Sports Editor....................Christopher D. Lf*
Photography Editor .... ..............Mike Pile 
Production Manager......................Maria RlV|
Typesetting Manager .... ............Patu Carlis
Contributing Editors.....................Pauline We*
Pauline Krafl
Asst. Pro......................................David Fi^
Asst Ent Editor..............................Adam Hal1
Asst. Sports Editor................................ Scott 1
Assc Business Manager....................Bonnie To[
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Peter Bain. 
Fishel, Leslie Frank, Andrew Ghali, 
Gialamas, Leslie Hothersall, Tracey Pejouhyj 
Maura Savini, Carolyn Speranza.
Copyright<& 1984 by The Tartan. The1 Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publication' 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial ^|(J 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo , 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-211. 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh P^^ I 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

J V V mm mm
April 24, 1984The TartanPage 19
etters:
itt student apologizes
iton
I understand that a letter I wrote to the Pitt 
^ a while back found its way into the 
arch 6 Tartan. I wrote the letter after a 
.n with some CMU students about 
ow easy courses are at Pitt. Ive cooled off 
little since then, and Id really like to apoli to anyone whose feelings I hurt. Of 
urse, CMU students are generally OK, 
d the campus is nice.I took piano lessons 
ere when I was little, and in high school I 
ved to stay and practice all night, till they 
ted locking the doors. I love Lenny 8c 
uiggy> ad WRCT is the best radio staon, bar none.
What hurts is when an unthinking few 
students put on the CMU mentality and 
put down Pitt. It is the same with the few 
from Penn State or Duquesne for that mat
ter.
When they do that, they belittle my studies 
here, as if they were an inferior endeavor. 
That hurts me because it attacks my dreams, 
however small.
Still, I cannot resist mentioning that it is 
certainly a typical sneaky CMU ploy to try 
to slip this little matter by in a small, obs
cure, little-read publication called the Tar
tan! (ar, ar, ar!)
Name withheld upon request
ratto clarifies column
iton
Andrew Sicre misjudged the nature of the 
otests he would receive about this illnceived argument that the only major 
ndidancy for the President who is for the 
ght to life for all is Ronald Reagan. (Tarn, 4/10/84). Sicre feared he would be critic-, 
for being a single issue fanatic. He is 
ore appropriately criticized either for a 
ow and unjust view of right-to-life, or 
r appalling ignorance. The asserdon that 
onald Reagan is for the right to life for 
1 is completely refuted by his actions. 
Since Reagan became President, he has ken emotionally against abortion and x. However, his only actions limiting 
Ttions, however, restricted some federal 
1th funding for abortions. The effect has t been to decrease the number of aborns, but to ensure that poor women and nagers either bear children they can't suprt or have unsafe abortions. Further, there 
reason to believe the number of unwanted gnancies is on the rise due to Reagans empts to eliminate free counseling and 
ntraceptives.
Unfortunately, this may be the least viot of several instances in which Reagans 
licies are responsible for the deaths of 
usands of people:
He has lavished aid and friendship on 
tator Marcos of the Philippines so that 
rcos has no incentive or directive to cease
his brutal tortute and murder of Philippine 
citizens.
He has sold weapons to South Africa 
which enable South African police to con
fine blacks to uninhabitable regions.
He has spent more money on the most 
sophisticated tools for human destruction 
than anyone in history.
He has ordered the CIA to mine merchant 
harbors and equip troops to fire on civilian 
villages in Nicauragua.
He has tried to equip our military with 
nerve gas, which most of the world decided 
was terribly inhumane after the first World 
War.
He continually sends millions of dollars 
in aid to the government of El Salvador, 
which has institutionalized the torture and 
murder of hundreds of thousands of its own
citizens.
He has ordered rocket fire on villages, and 
hospitals of unarmed civilians in Lebanon.
He has pursued legislation and court rul
ings to reinstitute the death penalty.
With brutal weapons and severe poverty, 
Ronald Reagan has killed thousands of peo
ple in the US, Lebanon, Central America, 
the Caribbean, and Africa. Only political 
rhetoric, in this case more aptly called misre
presentation, or hopelessly duped citizens, 
could claim Reagan is for the right-to-life 
for all.
Felicia Pratto
EDMUND DELANEY
to The Tartan 
The English Department will present its 
nual Adamson Award for Excellence in 
tmg on Friday, April 27. The ceremony
11 take place in the Adamson Wing of 
tar Hall at 8 p.m. Admission is free, 
he Adamson Awards honor CMU gradand undergraduate students who are 
ted writers in poetry, fiction, or nonon.
e awards are named for Pauline B. 
mson, late wife of CMU alumnus Clar
ence H. Adamson. In her memory, he 
donated a substantial sum of money for the 
annual awards, for scholarships in the Eng
lish department, and for a new wing to 
Baker Hall.
The guest speaker will be Raymond 
Carver, short story writer and poet. Carvers 
work has appeared in many anthologies, 
and one of his stories, A Small, Good 
Thing, was the 1983 first-place winner in 
William Abrahams distinguished shortfiction annual, Prize Stories: The O. Henry 
Awards.
&S card catalog on-line
INloC niECoOgo
to The Tartan 
niversity Libraries has brought up the 
8 awaited online catalog in Engineering 
Science Library. Eight terminals have 
n installed and are available to E&S users. 
2000, the online catalog system, pro
users the chance to search more 
lcklV ard efficiently through the UniverLibraries resources. While searching 
cnventional card catalog is limited to 
0t htle, and structured subject head^ 2000 allows users to search for a 
}V specifying a single word in the title 
utyect heading, as well as providing the
conventional search options. An online cir
culation system, a feature of LS2000 which 
finds a specific book, helps also to find out 
whether or not the book is available.
The database available at this point for 
user searching contains the holdings of E&S 
and Mellon Institute libraries. In the fall of 
1984, the catalog will be available to Hunt 
users also, and the database will include the 
holdings of all three libraries.
According to Patricia Fitzgerald, head of 
E&S Library, the students who have been 
experimenting with LS 2000 have been 
catching on very quickly and seem to be 
excited about it.
Tobias: alternative system
continued from page 18
called Sunshine Silver.) Bank accounts, 
checks, and credit card balances, would be 
dominated in whichever form of money the 
bank uses; perhaps its own banknotes.
The above description is only one possi
ble scenario of the development of non
governmental money. Another possibility 
which has been brought up is credits as 
used in some barter systems today. Barter
ing, as practiced now, has evolved from sim
ple trading to a more organized system in 
which people sell good and services to other 
members of the system in exchange for cred
its w hich are added or subtracted from their
accounts.
The workings of these systems are too 
complex to describe here, but basically the 
number of credits in the system can vary 
dynamically based on the number of goods 
and services being offered. They are not 
backed by gold or silver, but they are not 
fiat money either, since they are based on 
the availability of goods for trade. Some 
have proposed that such systems can be 
expanded to form a basis for an entire eco
nomic system.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applied 
Mathematics and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Shapiro: mixed reflections
ore news:wards to be presented
continued from page 18
stration of friendship and goodwill and do 
something about this character.
 The federal deficit is beginning to look 
like a potential Irwin Allen production. 
Between election year politicking and the 
natural intransigence of both Tip ONeill 
and Ronald Reagan, London bookies must 
be giving long odds on significant Congres
sional or Presidential action before 
November. Of course, people probably 
wont be screwed by sky high interest rates (if 
the Fed sits on the money supply) or by sky 
high inflation (if the Fed moves to hold 
down interest rates) until next year, so the 
politicians can afford to do nothing until 
1985. Whether their constituents can afford 
that is something else altogether.
 One of the more interesting Senate 
races this year is the attempt by North 
Carolina Governor Jim Hunt to relieve 
Senator Jesse Helms, one of the great minds 
of the seventeenth century, of his job. Hunt 
is actually quite moderate in his views, but 
runs the risk of looking like a southern ver
sion of Ted Kennedy in comparison to good 
ole boy Helms. Im waiting to see if the 
voters of that benighted state (which must 
also endure the presence of Helms clone 
John East in its other Senate seat) will see 
through the distortions of the Helms cam
paign and do both themselves and the 
nation a favor.
 Go Dodgers!
Stuart Shapiro is a senior and is a columnist 
for the Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 24, 1984
DATE: April 25 & 26 TIME: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
PLACE: Baker Hall___________________
Deposit Required: $15.00U HERFF JONESD'maion of Carnation Company
E vents
The budget for The Tartan will be discussed 
Tue. April 24 at the regular Student Senate meet
ing. Anyone having input is welcome at the 
meeting.
Have you any compliments or complaints about 
anything academic at CMU? Please tell is at Aca
demic Affairs Comm, c/o Skibo Info Desk. 
Explorers Club. Kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and hiking trips. Meetings on Thursdays, 6:30 
Skibo Room 12.
Group for Recycling In Pennsylvania (GRIP) 
collects newspaper for recycling and urges eve
ryone who gets a newspaper to do the same. Then 
bring it to Skibo parking lot on the last Sunday of 
each month (April 29th) from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
WRCT, CMUs student owned and operated 
campus radio station is looking for additional 
staff for the summer. All interested students are 
invited to a meeting next Tuesday, May 1, 1984, 
at 8 p.m. See next weeks Tartan for more details. 
Current staff remaining over the summer should 
also attend. WRCT is funded by the CMU activi
ties fee.
Hunt Library Extended Hours - Aril 29-May 11, 
1984. In response to student requests for addi
tional study hall facilities on campus, Hunt 
Library hours have been extended as follows: 8:00 
a.m. - 2:00 a.m.  All floors of Hunt Library 
open. 2:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.  First and second 
floors of Hunt Library open. Books will not be 
checked out. Students will be required to show 
their CMU ID cards in order to enter Hunt 
Library after 2:00 a.m.
EXHIBITS
Through Apr. 29 Arctic Plant Life: Adaptations 
for Survival. Changing Exhibits Gallery, Carne
gie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3283!
Through Apr. 29 Natural World Photographic 
Exhibition. CMNH Gallery, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
Through Apr. 29 Joan Witek: Drawings, 19^
1984. Gallery 1, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4^ 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 1
Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3200. 1
Through Apr. 29 Joan Witek: Paintings, 
1983. Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 ForbJ 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun l  
p.m. 622-3200
THEATER
April 27-May 26 Mass Appeal by Bill C. DavjJ 
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre, 4200 N. Crd; 
Street. 621-2876.
MUSIC
May 4 Pitt Opera workshop production! 
Claudia Pinza, director. Stephen Foster Memi 
orial, University of Pittsburgh, 8:30 p.m.
May 6 Pitt Opera workshop production! 
Repeat of May 4 production. Stephen Fosta 
Memorial, University of Pittsaburgh, 3 p.ra|
May 16 Musuci for Piano and Trumpet. Marl 
Sloneker, trumpet; Mark Carver, paino 
Works by Hindemith, Haydn, and Chopir 
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, University 
Pittsburgh, 8:30 p.m.
April 20, 21 Pittsburgh Symphony. Michael 
Lankester, conductor; Byron Janis, pianoi 
Prokofiev: Piano Concerto No. 3; Bruckneri 
Symphony No. 9. Heinz Hall, downtown,J 
p.m. 392-4900.
April 25 Merrill Lynch Great Performers 
Violin recital. Itzhak Perlman, violin. Hein 
Hall, downtown, 8 p.m. 392-4900.
April 26-29 Pittsburgh Symphony. Andrj 
Previn, conductor; Yo-Yo Ma, cello. Rimskyj 
Korsakov: March from Tsar Saltan"; Shosta 
kovich: Cello Concerto No.
Mussorgsky/Ravel: Pictures at an Exhibitioi 
Heinz Hall, downtown. 392-4900.
April 29 Chamber Music' Recital. Andi 
Previn and members of Pgh. Symphony! 
Music of Brahms and Shostakovich. Special 
guest Yo-Yo Ma. Heinz Hall, downtown,] 
p.m. 392-4900.
April 30 Nikolais Dance Company. Hei 
Hall, downtown, 8 p.m. 392-4900.
The following senators have office hours:
Monday:
Diane Weaver CIT 
Victor Shing MCS 
Cindy Taylor MCS 
Steve Volan HSS 
Jeff Duer CFA 
Peter Cor less CFA
10:30-11:30
11:30-12:30
12:30-1:30
1:30-2:30
2:30-3:30
4:30-5:30
Bill McCormick Pres. 6:30-8:30
Tuesday:
Fran Fitzgerald CIT 
Jeff Soller MCS 
Lisa Bruno CIT 
Glen Murray CFA 
John Livanos HSS 
Scott Durbin CFA 
John Pane CIT
10:30-11:30
12:30-1:30
1:30-2:30
2:30-3:30
3:30-4:30
4:30-5:30
5:30-6:30
Wednesday:
Pat Schmitt CIT 
John Searing CIT 
Hilary DeBroff AMS 
Michael Bett MCS 
Paula Petula HSS
Thursday:
Joel Fechter CIT 
Eric Rocher MCS 
Dave Goldstein CIT 
Carl Ericson CFA
10:30-11:30
11:30-12:30
2:30-3:30
3:30-4:30
6:30-7:30
10:30-11:30
11:30-12:30
12:30-1:30
1:30-2:30
Suraz Ibrahim SUPA 3:30-4:30
Friday: 11:30-12:30 
Steve Weller CIT
SENATE

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
... *E N KfPf A FRFSHftAN ro* fHREf yu*s er a mao confirm* . . .SOHfONf'S ttEOI HIM1N* DATAS A*t VUMtt* ON TMf WAiCS AMD 
SlfrKllNfr MM WAHf ...
ttt FIENOS AM 
UNSIMMTHfTIC...
by John Malley
ChrxKM . the 
THET <i OHFCtn. 
WC 60TW fATft* eH" RFOE TMET ntAW<vrm Hote.'
RtMT.RW. WBrtT, H*X 8WT HePiw* / *r Of THI* HAY, 
FIRST------
gy MASELE & gEYER.
MA5TEP/ TWe IS A
wuiemotol )

---------------------------------------------------

Place: lawns between Baker &  ~
^ Doherty Halls, and in ^
V front of the Fine Arts Building ^
r Euents/Activities: Barbecue ^-T ^
L picnic. Co-ed softball. /" i
Co-ed volleyball. Co-ed / M
? "Run for Fun. Live
"swingmusic 11 fT~
Free to HSSS faculty. M
'0/L students S staff <8
? ($ 1.00 for others)
Tickets may be picked up prior 
10 ^,n ^ca ^ demic Advisory Center, or at
^ the barbecue itself.
------Rain Date: Wednesday. May 2

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
lousing
nmer rooms for rent; cool, quiet, clean, close, 
eted; fall options $120  $165 682-1378, 
leave message, hope you like Humphrey
rt.
dmer Sublet: share 3-bdrm apartment male or 
[iale 15 min. walk to CMU. $175 + util. Negotie. 521-0615 or 521-4624. Living rm. Dining 
kitchen, large porch, large basement.
|,let - fall option - starting May 11 $325 includall utilities. 1 bedroom - for one or two - 
ated on Centre Ave. phone 621-0153.
for rent for summer period beginning 
and ending August 15. Maid and linen 
ice provided. Only $55 per week. Phone 682-
xury, sunny 2-bedroom apartment for rent. 
[jmate location, carpetted, dishwasher, dispo| laundry, storage, free parking. Available May 
I Call 687-1190.
nmer sublet; large, furnished 2 bedroom apt; 
jludes beermeister!!! Rent negotiable call 681-
12.
ner Sublet. Furnished efficiency, close to 
Ju, all utilities included, $200 a month, call
)32.
ner Sublet - Sq. Hill duplex, fum., good 
, $ 138/mo. + util: 422-2191 or WeH 7213. 
ale roommate wanted; May lst-June 1st fora 
Squirrel Hill; remodeled house; free [idry; $205 per month + electric; call Sandy 
35.
p/Mo Roomie needed, 2BR, Lots of Space.
Pets, No Smokers, No Nerds. Utilities 
|uded. Call Loomis, 361-1350 (H) 624-5515
I grad relocating to San Francisco in need of 
ale roommate for beginning June. In similar 
ation? Call 837-6802.
Roommate needed to share 2-bdrm. apt. over the 
summer. Excellent location near cleaners, stores, 
etc. 10 min. walk to campus. Rent negodable. 
682-7133.
Roommate wanted - law student seeks grad stu
dent or professional to share Squirrel Hill apart
ment. Call Mark Reisman at 521-1974.
Rent-a-spot - Dont drag it home to Mom  stow 
it for reasonable rates, month to month lease, 15 
min. from downtown. Open daily to 6:00 p.m. 
Weekends to 4:00 p.m.comer Rt. 885 and 
Lebanon Church Road next to County Airport 
back of Century III Mall. 655-3610.
jobs
Certified Lifeguards Needed in Pittsburgh area. 
Anyone who plans to work as a lifeguard at a 
swimming pool in Pittsburgh or suburban 
Allegheny County this summer must be a certi
fied lifeguard under a new County health law.
Students who want to work as lifeguards in 
Allegheny County but do not have the required 
skills are urged by health officials to enroll in an 
approved training program as soon as possible to 
obtain certification for this summer.
Accredited lifeguard training programs are 
offered by the Red Cross and the YMCA. Infor
mation about the programs and course scedules 
can be obtained by contacting either 
organization.
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of 
following: watersafety, waterskiing, boating, 
soccer, basketball, arts and crafts, rockclimbing, 
riflery, ham radio, rocketry, science, archery, 
track, tennis, golf, photography, pioneering, or 
general athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red 
Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
Student entrepreneurs interested in establishing 
or running a business on campus are invited to 
contact Student Corporation at x3535.
Counselor positions available at childrens camp 
for summer 84. Need male to direct archery, 
riflery, computers, and athletics. For informa
tion, contact Jim Doschbach - 7911 Union St., 
Pgh., PA 15218 or call 731-3742 evenings or 
weekends.
Summer - jobs for girls at beautiful Naked City 
Nudist Resort, top salaries, free meals, free apt., 
etc!!! A great place to visit and work - free bro
chure!!! Call Diana at (219) 345-2000 or write! 
Naked City, Box 10, Roselawn, IN 46372. 
Excellent student summer job. Night auditor 
wanted for summer resort hotel at Lake Chautau
qua near Buffalo, NY. Bookkeeping background 
necessary, good salary, from June 20 to August 
30. Write P. O. Box 9043, Pgh., PA 15224.
Need cash? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flex
ible) hours per week placing and filling posters 
on campus. Serious workers only; we give recom
mendations. Call now for summer and next fall. 
1-800-243-6679.____________________________
miscellaneous
Master is Social Work (MSW); specializations in 
family therapy, occupational social work, man
agement; health; dual degrees: MSW/JD, 
MSW/MA in Architecture, MSW/MBA. Finan
cial aid available; write: George Warren Brown 
School of Social Work, Washington University, 
Campus Box 11% G,St. Lousi, MO 63130. 
Moving? This spring we move anything. Call 
second mile hauling. Ask for Vince. 231-2766. 
The Trucking Company; we move it like its 
ours and we save you money; local and long 
distance; 363-1245.
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-Shirt Com
pany at 578-3535 and speak to John for details.
1981 Honda Civic 4-door, silver, air, AM-FM 
stereo, excellent condition, 18,000 miles, $4900. 
681-3682.
WANTED: Typist with access to Scribe or word 
processor to type project. Call Tom Franks 429- 
8183.
Writing Term Papers? Looking for a job? Ill 
type your term papers, resumes, letters, enve
lopes. Fast, professional, reasonable. 341-0593.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978. 
Typing/word processing. Theses, term papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabian manuals strongly followed). Spe
cialize in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour ser
vice 371-3657.
We have the lowest airfares to Europe and across 
America! For free color brochure write to: Cam
pus Travel, Box 11387, St. Louis, MO 63105.
80-year old dry goods store sale. April 28-29 10-3. 
South Hills  Allentown Section. 437 Chalfont. 
884-9545.
The Battle of the Air Bands Friday, April 27 10 
p.m. Chatham College, $150 Cash Prize. Call 
441-8200, x239 for more info.
Were looking for a few more good men. The 
CMU varsity cheerleading squad is looking for 
any interested men to cheer for the 1984-85 foot
ball season. No experience necessary, all training 
will be provided. If interested, call Sharon @ 
x4242.
Byzantine Catholic Mass. Divine Liturgy is cele
brated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. All 
Byzantine Catholics and anyone interested in the 
eastern rite church is invited to join us.
Sunday Mass (and Sat. night Mass) has been 
moved to Porter Hall 100. Mass is celebrated Sat. 
at 7:00 p.m. and Sun. at 10:30 a.m. in Porter Hall 
100 (Gregg Hall).
Bible talk group meets every Monday evening at 
8 in Skibo Room 39. For a great time of learning 
and fellowship, this is the place to be. Set some 
time aside and be there! For more information, 
call 441-0819, and ask for John.
Information Technology Conference
with
Alvin Toffler
Author of Future Shock and Third Wave
and
+ William McGowan, Chairman of MCI Communications, on Communications Industry
+ Amy Wohl, President of Advance Office Concepts, on Office Automation
* Roberto Romulo, President of IBM Philippines, on Technology in Developing Countries
* Robert E. Smith, Editor of Privacy Journal, on Privacy Issues
* Dr. Harley Shaiken, Research Associate at MIT, on Labor and Employment Issues
* Donn Parker, Research Consultant for SRI International, on Computer Security
* Jean Jacques Servan-Schreiber, President of World Center of Computing and Human Resources, on 
Challenges of Information Age
May 21-23 at the William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, PA
To register, contact:
Tim Liv / Conference Coordinator Information Technology Conference 
Box 221 Carnegie-Mellon University 578-3515
$100  Entire Conference Program and Meals 
$50  Conference Program (not including dinners)
CaII >78-2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Fast FREE Delivery
3-0400
4740 Baum Blvd. OaklandPgh, PA
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
PEPPERON1 GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS , ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACON GREEN PEPPERS ' MUSHROOMSFREE DELIVERY* WITHIN 30 MIN.
Cheese.
1 Item,
2 Items3 Items 
4* Items 
5 Items
STORE HOURS:
SN-THURS ll AM-2AM 
FRI & SAT 11 AM-3 AM
'WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMrT.OUR DELIVERY AREA 
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
 Four mak g
OFF   B*b $ loprj
Spec . ! ANY PIZZA.
ed0*d<ed0*d<ed0*d<ed0*d<
ONIONS. ANO GMCN RWB
ANI) KH I FRIE I6 0Z. ClPS 
OF COKI
AND TWO HUE I OZ CITS 
 OF iOKt
AMO FOUR FREE I 02 CUPS
OF (OKK
AND FOUR FREE 1 OZ CURS 
Of ( OKt
ADDRESSNAME
ONt COUPON Pf R PIZZA
egmga lbmnhlt
ADDRESSNAME
ONt COUPON PER PIZZA 
COUPON EXPIRES
ADDRESSNAMiWE RESERVE THERIGHT TO 1.1 WIT
OUR DELIVER* AREA
WE RESERVE, THE 
RIGHT TOUMiT 
OUR DELIVERY rhlr
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUA DELIVERY AREA
ONE COUPON PR PIZZA 
COUPON EXPIRES
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY AREAed0*d<ed0*d<ed0*d<ed0*d<
