Hunt collection gets $1 million boost
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Hunt Library will invest $1,000,000 in 
a program that will annually yield $80,000 
to $90,000 to supplement Hunts 1985-86 
Books and Materials Budget of $933,000.
We received a $1,000,000 gift from an 
anonymous foundation to expand Hunt 
Librarys Collections, said Tom Michalak 
Director of University Libraries. The 
money will be invested and we may get 
returns as soon as next semester. The income 
after the gift will up our Hunt Collection 
Budget to the neighborhood of $1,000,000, 
a significant increase.
A recent $35,000 allocation to improve 
Hunt Library Services and Facilities pro
mpted Student Senate and Library Manage
ment to develop a Library User Survey to 
determine how the funds should be used 
(See The Tartan of October 1, 1985.)
Over 100 surveys were returned. Michalak 
and Sylverna Ford, Head of Hunt Library, 
have compiled survey responses and 
prioritized student needs.
President Richard M. Cyert has a copy oi 
the survey summary. The survey results 
reveal that the first priority of most students 
is to expand Hunts collections.
The biggest problem with the library, far 
more important than carpeting and lux
urious study areas, is the collection. [The] 
Fine Arts and Literature collection is severe
ly deficient, lacking up-to-date books, while 
older ones are often lost. A trip to Hunt 
Library to search for source material for any 
of the Fine Arts is an extremely frustrating 
experience. The library collection is one of 
the few true black marks on the CMU 
record. Few universities would long tolerate 
such a small collection. This survey, though 
I m happy to participate in it, conveys an 
attitude that explains the librarys plight. It 
is easier to get 22 chairs for sleeping in than 
ne-\good monograph of an artists or ar
chitects work, wrote a CMU graduate 
student.
A Junior wrote, Considering the way the 
University funds the library, [the] collection 
is fairly good.
This survey has improved the awareness 
within the University Administration of 
what the students need in the Library, 
Michalak said. Students are quite correct 
that the quality [of the collections] is not up 
where it should be ... . We need resources. 
Students also expressed the need for ex
tended library hours and increased access to 
Hunts second and third floors. Currently, 
Hunts third and fourth floors are open un
til midnight, and the first and second floors 
are open until 2 a.m. during the week.
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
This year the Resident Assistants pro
gram gains another dimension with the ad
vent of a new event called the R A 
Exchange.
The program takes place on November 
9 and 10 on the CMU campus. Bucknell 
University, Franklin and Marshall College, 
Washington and Jefferson University, and 
Oberlin College will each send as many as 
eight RAs to participate in the two day 
event.
Upon arriving at CMU, the visiting R A s 
will participate in social and educational 
programming. The weekend includes din
ner at Station Square and a social at Mudge 
on Saturday night to allow representatives 
of the five campuses to meet and interact.
The major thrust of the weekend will oc
cur on Saturday afternoon, when both CMU 
and visiting RA s will participate in Pro
fessional Development Workshops, said 
Jackie Yonek, a Carnegie-Mellon Resident 
Assistant in Morewood D Tower, who 
helped organize the event. According to 
Yonek, the workshop will basically give
I will present a budget on November 10, 
for the next fiscal year, proposing that Hunt 
remain open until 3 a.m., and the third and 
fourth floors remain open past midnight, 
Michalak announced. I estimate that it will 
cost $20,000 a year to keep the library open. 
A primary concern is student safety, as well 
as safety of the collections. Staff will be 
needed because of the potential security 
risk.
Student Senates Campus Affairs Com
mittee met with Michalak last week to 
discuss Hunt Library changes, particularly 
the progress of the new study rooms being 
built on the second floor. The study rooms
R A s an opportunity to exchange ideas. 
Jeff Bruno, another CMU resident assis
tant said Each school can present what 
they have and then . . . field questions. RAs 
can ask other RAs what they think.
I really hope to get new ideas about dif
ferent programs, said Yonek.
Bruno said that the workshops would in
volve giving ideas and insights.
A group of RAs came up with the idea 
during their week of training for the school 
year. The RAs were asked to create a pro
gram beneficial to the whole staff, said 
Murphy.
Saturday will be a forum for ail five 
schools. The workshops will be relevant to 
the RAs position, said Mike Murphy, the 
Assistant Director of Housing for Residents 
Life at CMU. Workshop subjects include 
educational programming, social program
ming, alcohol programming, staff selection, 
hiring, evaluation, counseling, and dealing 
with stress.
It was Yugos idea, said Yonek, referr
ing to Yugo Ikach, one of the RAs. Ikach, 
Yonek, Bruno, Mike Gordon, Shannon 
continued on page 3
will probably not be available tor stuanet 
use by Finals Week because of the lag time 
between equipment ordering and delivery, 
Michalak said. We plan to make some 
alternative arrangements, though.
Senator Peter Cohen secured the use of 
a bulletin board in Hunts elevator lobby for 
Student Senate to post responses to questions 
and complaints. This is no doubt a gain for 
students. WTien students give Student Senate 
input about how they feel about things we 
can let everyone know on the new, central 
Student Senate Board. We enocourage 
students to tell us what their problems are, 
Cohen said.
In This Issue:
News
ROTC Ceremony..................page 3
Features
Calligrapher Arnold Bank....page 7 
Automation vs. Imports......page 8
Entertainment
Beaver Brown Band...........page 11
Forbes Gallery.....................page 11
Sports
Harriers sweep PACs..........page 18
Hockey shutout...................page 20
Editorial ...........................page 22 *
Acme...................................page 27
CMU hosts RA 
exchange weekend
Apple co-founder 
lectures at CMU
Steven Jobs spoke to an audience of over 400 last Wednesday
photo by Jack Poller
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Steven Jobs, co-founder and former presi
dent of Apple Computer, gave a lecture at 
CMU last Wednesday afternoon.
Appearing in the Skibo Ballroom, Jobs 
announced his plans to form a new com
puter company called Next Incorporated. 
The goal of Next would be to produce a 
powerful computer workstation which would 
be targeted exclusively to the highereducation market.
Jobs spoke to an audience of over 400 peo
ple, but the lecture, sponsored by the Stu
dent Dormitory Council, was restricted to 
the CMU community. Local Pittsburgh 
media, including a television crew from 
WPXI Channel 11, were asked to leave 
before Jobs would begin.
Jobs spoke briefly about some of the con
cepts he had been considering this summer, 
and then entertained questions from the au
dience. The main topic of his speech was 
that within five years, there will be a 
qualitative change in education through the 
use of computing tools.
Jobs drew a parallel between biological 
life and computer life in his address. He ask
ed the audience to consider CMUs eventual 
network of 5000 workstations, most of which 
would be idle at 4:00 in the morning, and 
asked it to imagine a program whose func
tion was to survive within the electronic con
fines of the network. Dodging attempts at 
removing it by shutting off the computer or 
shutting down power to the whole network, 
entities of this sort would make an in
teresting simulation, which could be run on 
CMUs network, on the similarities between 
biological life and computer life. This is 
what I have been thinking about this sum
mer .... I had some time on my hands, 
he said.
When asked what his new computer 
would be like, Jobs first joked, Well, itll 
at least be IBM-compatible. In order to 
design the Next personal computer, Jobs in
tends to throw out the past concepts of 
what a computer should or shouldnt be. 
The machine will be targeted to the college 
students of today, those who realize the 
continued on page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 5, 1985
Campus Briefs
CMU psychologist 
gets first William G. 
Memorial Award
PITTSBURGH - Dr. James W. Stigler, 
a cross-cultural psychologist at the Univer
sity of Chicago, has received the first 
William G. Chase Memorial award from 
CMUs Department of Psychology.
Stigler is known for his studies of the com
putational skills of Taiwanese children who 
are expert abacus calculators and for com
paring the intellectual achievements of 
children in Japan, China, and the United 
States.
He will accept the reward and present a 
lecture on his research at 3:30 p.m., 
November 1 in the Adamson Wing.
The Chase Award honors outstanding 
research by young psychologists. It is nam
ed for the late William G. Chase, a CMU 
memory expert who died in 1983. He gain
ed national recognition for his experiments 
demonstrating that good memory is an ac
quired skill. Under his guidance, a student 
improved his memory for numbers from the 
normal seven digits to 80. The previous 
record for digit recall, set in 1911, was 18 
digits.
GSIA prof appointed 
to Financial Accounting 
Standards Council
PITTSBURGH - Professor Robert S. 
Kaplan of GSIA has been appointed to the 
Financial Accounting Standards Advisory 
Council.
Kaplan is the former dean of GSIA and 
also holds the Arthur Lowes Dickinson Chair 
of Accounting at the Harvard Business 
School. 
The Council advises the Financial Ac
counting Standards Board (FASB) on trends 
in finance, industrial operations and ac
counting research. A branch of the Finan
cial Accounting Foundation, the Advisory 
Council is composed of 35 leaders from 
business, the financial community, the ac
counting profession, education and 
government.
Kaplan is vice-president of the American 
Accounting Association, chairman of the 
board of directors of the Pittsburgh Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank and a member 
of the Manufacturing Studies Board of the 
National Research Council.
SUPA prof receives 
teaching award
PITTSBURGH - Allison Park resident 
Robert F. Rich, associate professor of 
political science, public policy and manage
ment at CMU, has received the universitys 
1985 Emil Limbach Teaching Award.
A member of the faculty of SUPA since 
1982, Rich was honored for his ability to 
stimulate critical thinking, his enthusiasm 
for teaching and his insights into the politcal aspects of the policy-making process. 
The annual award, based on student 
assessments of their instructors, is named for 
the late Emil Limbach, a 1912 CMU 
graduate and later chairman of the board 
of the Pittsburgh-based Limbach Company.
Before joining CMU, Rich was assistant 
professor of politics and public affairs at the 
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and In
ternational Affairs at Princeton University, 
where he was coordinator of the Domestic 
and Urban Policy Field and director of the 
Mental Health Policy Research Program.
In 1983, the World Federation for Men
tal Health honored his work with victims of 
crime and violence by establishing an an
nual award in his name for work done in the 
field of victimization.
Jobs outlines plans for new computer company
continued from page 1
power of these tools.
His belief that computers are useful 
when you can use them will still play a vital 
role in the design of the Next computer, 
however. Programming, he postulated, was 
developed to get computers to do what you 
want. No one really wants to program.
In the coming months, Jobs says he will 
gather ideas for the machine, as well as seek 
monetary backing for the company from 
venture capitalists. He did not want to state 
a possible price for the new PC; his best 
answer was its gonna cost what its gonna 
cost.
In questions from the audience, Jobs, 30, 
echoed his traditional message to college 
students to lead a Bohemian lifestyle for a
few years out of college, while they have the 
chance. Decrying the linear career, he ad
vised students to follow their passions out 
of school, saying that you can jump back 
in after a few years, and reenter [the job 
market], possibly at an even better advan
tage.
When asked about Steve Wozniak, the 
electronics wizard who helped Jobs found 
Apple in 1975, Jobs replied, Woz is doing 
fine. Hes a real gadget freak .... I went 
to visit him [recently], and hes got televi
sions, TV tuners, two satellite dishes, and 
40 million remotecontrol changers on his 
coffee table. Wozniaks latest crusade, ac
cording to Jobs, js to design programmable, 
intelligent remote-control channel 
changers.
Jobs had no bitterness or remorse towards 
Apple Computer, after his recent ouster due 
to differences with top management earlier 
this year. I am a product of [Apple, even] 
as I [helped create it], he commented.
He discounted the possibility of forming 
his Next company in Pittsburgh, saying that 
Next, Inc., will be based in Palo Alto. For 
one thing, we all live there, he said, and 
also, the great thing about Silicon Valley is 
that there are companies [there] to help you 
start companies.
Jobs was also questioned on the Amiga, 
the new personal computer from Com
modore which has been hailed as the suc
cessor to the Apple Macintosh. He felt that, 
although its speed and its graphics power 
make it the worlds best video game, the
Amiga is not revolutionary enough to strike 
the market as the Macintosh did. He cited 
the Amigas present lack of software sup
port, its lack of memory management, and 
its late start with only marginal advantages 
over the Mac as reasons why the Amiga 
might not succeed.
Jobs, who was given a lengthy introduc
tion by John P. Crecine, Senior VicePresident for Academic Affairs, later had 
dinner with Crecine and several CMU 
students. Before coming to Pittsburgh, Jobs 
lectured at Stanford, the University of 
Michigan at Ann Arbor, and MIT. His visits 
to these schools included a tour of the com
puting facilities, and an assessment of the 
traits which would need to be built into a 
a students computer workstation.
SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
0
Advance Registration for the Spring 1986 Semester will be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 13 and 14, 
1985. AH students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at 
CMU this spring, except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you wont be return
ing for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form, clearly marked Spring 1986, with your 
department. If you are unable to register November 13 or 14 (i.e. youre studying off-campus), ask your.advisor 
to process your registration, or call the Registrars Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1986 will be available tomorrow, November 6, at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk and inside Baker Halls main entrance. The schedule contains next semesters course offerings, in
structors, times, and rooms, as well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, 
and carefully read and follow its instructions.
A single registration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. 
Your R3D is available in your department office (in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center at BH 161 for H&SS 
freshmen and sophomores) and should be used to update demographic information and to list your Spring 
Semester schedule for advisor approval.
* * * * ******Advance Registration Instructions
1. Pickup your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pickup a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1986, starting tomorrow, at the Skibo Information Desk or in
side Baker Halls main entrance.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot register 
until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours next week, but contact yours for
specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, November 13 and 14, between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., go to each department 
teaching a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department by December 13. Even if you dont get all ap
provals, turn your R3D in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
// you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 578-2004.
NOVEMBER 13 and 14

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 3
ROTC honors veterans 
with flag ceremony
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
On Monday, November 11, the Army and 
Air Force ROTC will be honoring all the 
veterans who have fought for our freedom 
by holding a retreat ceremony by the 
flagpole.
By<r
The joint Army - Air Force
venture, commencing at 5:30 
p.m., wont seem like much to 
the passersby. Over 100 students in green 
and blue uniforms will just be standing there 
saluting the Flag. This certainly must not 
seem very interesting nor important, but it 
is.
Those students, all a part of the U.S. 
military, will be continuing a 67-year tradi
tion of honoring and commemorating all the 
persons who fought for our freedom, as well 
as all those who died so we might be free.
This Monday is Veterans Day. Also known 
as Armistice day, this holiday began Nov. 11,
1918 when the Armistice ending World War
RAs host exchange
I was signed. It honored all the soldiers who 
fought in that war.
After the Second World War, the holiday 
became known as Veterans day to recognize 
all veterans of war. Today, it is also a day 
commemorating the promotion and preser
vation of world peace.
To these ROTC students, the American 
Flag is not just a piece of cloth. It is a way 
of life. That flag symbolizes not only our na
tion, but its people, the constitution, and the 
freedoms and liberties that are associated 
with it. Students who have chosen ROTC as 
an activity uphold this symbol with the 
greatest of reverence, for it symbolizes all 
that is America. When they salute the flag, 
they are saluting all that makes our nation 
great.
If you happen to be passing by on Mon
day and see this quiet little ceremony, stop 
for a few minutes, and think about our flag, 
our nation, and yourself. Think, how lucky 
you are to be free, to be an American.
Crime and Incident Report
Friday, October 25
(9AM)-Three male CMU students were physically assaulted in two related but separate in 
cidents. The first incident involved one student and occurred on 5000 Forbes Ave; the second 
one involved two CMU students in the rear of the Morewood Gardens parking lot. Three 
of the four assailants were arrested by CMU security officers for simple assault. Out of the 
three that were arrested, two were juveniles(16-18 years old) and one was an adult(18 years 
old). The juveniles have been turned over to the juvenile authorities and a hearing has been 
scheduled. Charges have been filed with the local magistrate against the one adult. A stu
dents nose was broken in the struggle.
(11:22PM)-A fight erupted at Kappa Alpha Phi dance in the Skibo ballroom. One copy 
machine was broken; damages have been estimated at $842.84. A CMU officer was hurt while 
trying to break up the fight. An 18 year old non-CMU male student, who was intoxicated 
at the time, was arrested for criminal mischief and under-age drinking; a hearing has been 
scheduled. The cause of the fight is not known.
continued from page 1
Hansen, and Tracy Rone helped develop 
and coordinate the weekend.
According to Murphy, Our Resident 
Assistants program has a lot to offer. As 
well, we can learn a lot from [the RAs.] This 
will be an impetus to make improvements.
The participating schools were chosen 
from a list of fifteen because of their com
patibility in size and academic challenge. 
The activity is the first of its kind at CMU.
Yonek, in her second year as an RA, and 
Bruno, in his first year in the program, both
expressed positive feelings about their posi
tions and the upcoming weekend. I think 
it will be interesting to see how other schools 
operate, said Yonek.
Visiting RAs will be hosted by CMU resi
dent assistants in a manner similar to sleep
ing baggers, said Murphy.
Most of our RAs are participating, said 
Yonek of the sixty resident assistants at 
CMU.
Participation is voluntary, according 
to Murphy. Our Resident Assistants 
program has strength and we have 
appreciation for that.
October 27
(2:30AM)-A student lost a "helmut during a Halloween party in Morewood Gardens. It 
was worth about $70.
October 29
(9:12AM)-A students wallet was stolen out of her knapsack during a class in Doherty Hall. 
The wallet contained $18, her i.d., and her credit cards.
(11:57AM)-A few items, such as a metal stepladder, a door, a plant, and some furniture, 
which had previously been lost, were found in the Freshman Architecture Studio, Doherty 
1S08, by a CMU officer. The case has been turned over to the dean.
(9:05PM)-A PC keyboard was stolen from Warner Hall.
Wednesday, October 30
(11:34AM)-A CMU student was mugged while he was on the 500-600 block of Morewood 
Avenue walking towards his off-campus house. Two black males between the ages of 17 to 
24 dragged the student onto the grass and threatened to beat him; they took his wallet and 
fled. The case has been turned over to the city robbery squad.
Thursday, October 31
(2:11 AM)-Two men dressed like gorillas went into Morewood Gardens B-Tower and threw 
eggs at the doors and down the stairwell.
(5:49AM)*Eight eggs were thrown against the blackboard in Room 7500 of Wean Hall.
Quadriplegic Kim Cochran 
with son, Craig.
"Each day as I watch Craig grow, I grow myself, in strength and confidence."United Wy
Carnegie-Mellon University 
presents the
1985 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
"Competing in the New Global Environment" 
delivered by John A. Young
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Hewlett-Packard Company
Thursday, November 14, 1985 
5:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the Public Relations Office
5017 Forbes Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

If Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning had Al&Ts 60% and 40% discounts, it would have been a terrible
And of course, she wouldnt have had to 
restrict her feelings to a mere sonnets 
length, either.
After all, you can always think of one 
more way to tell someone you love them 
when youre on the phone.
Let us count the ways you can save. 
Just call weekends till 5pm Sundays, or 
from 11pm to 8am, Sunday through Friday, 
and youll save 60% off AT&Ts Day Rate
on your state-to-state calls.Call between 5pm and 11pm, Sunday 
through Friday, and youll save 40% on your 
state-to-state calls.
So when youre asked to choose a long 
distance company, choose AT&T. Because 
with AT&Ts 60% and 40% discounts, you 
can satisfy your hearts desire without 
exhausting your means.
Reach out and touch someone.'

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 5
Student Senate Minutes
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
October 29, 1985
PRESENT:
Bett, Chun, Cohen, DeLeon, Flynn, Hynes, 
Jagerski, K. Lee, Murphy, Mukherjee Novak, 
Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Whysel, Dean 
Walter, Lonsky, Kombrek, Appelbaum, Ran
sack, Trampel, Greenberg, Noesen, Patnaik, 
Cousineau, Lossing
ABSENT:
Chu, Kissner, A. Lee
AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION:
Several members of the audience expressed 
concern about the opinion column concerning 
AIDS in last weeks The Tartan. The problem 
at CMU is not great, they argued, as no one here 
has been diagnosed as having this sickness. Peo
ples bodies are sacred, one asserted before sug
gesting an aggressive media campaign, for if 
youre really serious . . . going the educational 
route is the most effective. Dean Walter is cur
rently forming a committee concerning the 
universitys approach to the AIDS issue. The 
committee will consist of two faculty members,
mittee . . . will not base its decision on an emo
tional reaction thats already been blown out of 
proportion by the media.
DEAN WALTER:
Dean Walter questioned the lack of publici
ty hed observed concerning Steve Jobs visit.
PRESIDENT:
(1) Peter Cohen attended the Faculty Senate 
meeting in Karens place and learned of the let
ter to be issued by Dr. Fowler concerning the 
lack of student input in university decisions af
fecting their lives and the cruciality of obtain
ing more student space. The letter stated, Stu
dent morale is being adversely and unnecessarily 
affected by decisions . . . which are made too 
arbitrarily.
(2) About 650,000 students in America will 
lose or see a great reduction in the amount of 
the Guaranteed Student Loans if the substan
tial cut to this program is passed by Congress. 
A committee will be formed to investigate 
methods of protest.
(3) Karen showed the new logo for CamegieMellon (nee Carnegie-Mellon University.)
(4) Both Karen and Cherie attended the 
Board of Trustees meeting and Cherie felt her
two students, and Dean Walter. As Senator 
Brett Whysel stated, Its hoped that this comeyes were really opened . . . [because] the 
trustees seem truly dedicated and interested in 
our well-being. The Master Plan was approv
ed and a copy of it will be available at the Skibo 
Information Desk for the perusal of any student 
with a valid ID. Also discussed at this meeting 
were the proposed increase in professors salaries; 
the search for a new head of Biology, depart
ment heads for Mech E and Civ E, a new dean 
of H&SS; the SEI, which, in Karens words, 
President Cyert doesnt want to be a fortress; 
and the possibility of our school's participation 
in a new conference for football, which would 
mean an increase in the teams travel expenses; 
and Karens address to the board concerning the 
need for student space.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
Improvements to the library will include a 
replenished supply of books, an extension of 
hours for student use, and study rooms to be 
completed by finals week. For more details see 
the committees minutes.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION:
(1) Students against Apartheid was granted
nonfunded recognition.
(2) Scotch and Soda was granted an emergen
cy allocation.
(3) Budgets will be presented in two weeks and 
it is important that all senators attend that 
meeting.
PUBLIC RELATIONS: 
No report.
OLD BUSINESS:
Cindy will have a report next week about the 
appeals board.
NEW BUSINESS:
Eric Rocher is improving Senates new disket
tes for near-letter-quality printing.
Karen is meeting about next years academic 
calendar; she will look into the possibility of two 
reading days.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Funding and Recognition, Monday at 7:00 
p.m.
Exec, Thursday at 8:00 p.m.
The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------
in'..
!Jb3r
9W0J14 \
James Watt looked thoughtfully at the 
Newcomen engine and saw that it was ineffi
cient, expensive, and slow as a mule in mud. He 
figured out how to improve it, and the Industrial 
Revolution came to pass.
We could use people like that.
The reason we lead the world in things like 
aircraft engines, elevators, and air conditioning, 
is that were never really satisfied. We keep im
proving things. Even new things like spacesuits 
and weapons control systems.
Were looking for people who never think
anythings perfect. People with your kind of 
Class-A education, plus a mind that can make a 
brilliant leap of imagination and then buckle 
down to the nuts and bolts.
In return, were offering the worldwide 
companies of United Technologies. Companies 
where 12,000 engineers, right up to top manage
ment, speak your language.
The first steps easy. Stop by the campus 
placement office, or write for more information 
and a reprint of this ad. United Technologies, 
PO. Box 1379, Hartford, CT 06143.
United Technologies means 
Pratt &. Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical ' 
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky 
and United Technologies 
Research Center.
An equal opportunity 
employer.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES

---------------------------------------------------

%
_____________________Features.
CMU's famous calligrapher Arnold Bank
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
I live across the street from someone 
famous a master calligrapher, designer, 
and paleographer named Arnold Bank. Ive 
watched him walk slowly up our street many 
times, not knowing that he is one of the 
greatest living experts in the history, design,
> and production of letter forms in the world.
Although he retired from teaching last 
May, his reputation as a demanding and in
spiring professor remains in the minds of 
students, colleagues, and contemporaries 
from CMU to artistic institutions around the 
world. He is known internationally for his 
lectures and demonstrations done on enor
mous 16ft x 3ft scrolls of paper, which have 
captured audiences for almost four hours at 
a time.
After a grueling interview, I learned 
something about Banks mannerhe treated
5 me as he would a student, advising and 
questioning memaking it easy to see what 
f students meant when they said Bank could 
be intimidating.
After I dug up information on Banks 
background, I found that his artistic 
development started at home. Born in New 
York in 1908, Bank was influenced by his 
father, a fresco painter, marblizer, and 
grainer (one who uses paint to give the ap
pearance of texture.) In his early years, Bank 
 learned from his father as an apprentice, acI companying him on various jobs. At home 
Bank painted and practiced lettering and 
ornamentation under his fathers direction.
At Stuyvesant High School, Bank receiv
ed his first formal training in music and art.
 Moreover, he was awarded medals for both 
his classical trumpet playing and his excep| tional handwriting.
After High School, he did freelance let
tering, designing, and sign painting jobs and 
took drawing courses at CCNY, the City Col! lege of New York, the Art Students League, 
and other New York City schools. However, 
most of Banks training was done in| dependently. Since the libraries were only 
| open during the day, Bank studied in the 
afternoons and did freelance work in the 
| evenings. As a freelance designer and 
I calligrapher, Bank worked for major New 
| York publishing houses such as Viking, Mac
Millan, and Random House designing jacket 
I covers in his special writing styles.
Although he continued doing freelance 
I work, Bank later taught at a number of 
if vocational high schools and professional art 
schools including: the Art Students League, 
Cooper Union, Columbia University, the 
Brooklyn Museum Art School, and the 
Portland Museum Art School.
During the war years between 1941 and 
1947, Bank was hired by Time magazine as 
an Art Director. From there he worked in
the promotion department at Time, Inc
Publications which lead to his position at 
Life magazine, where he gained recognition 
for using his lettering in headings.
Perhaps the most notable period of Banks 
career was during the years 1954-1957 when 
he held a Fulbright in England at Royal Col
lege of Art. Bank is particularly 
remembered for his outstanding perfor
mance as a Senior Fellow Lecturer. In fact, 
his demonstrations were so inspirational and 
highly regarded that the huge sheets of 
paper he used in his shows are still carefully 
preserved and some have been illustrated in 
contemporary lettering books.
Upon returning to New York as a 
freelance designer, Bank was asked by 
CMU to give a workshop on calligraphy. In 
1960, Bank was invited to teach calligraphy 
in CMUs design department, so Bank and 
his wife, Rose, moved to Pittsburgh. He serv
ed as an Associate Professor of Design at 
CMU until 1976, when he was titled Pro
fessor; he tought at CMU for a total of 
24 years.
To find out more about Banks highly 
praised teaching, I talked to some of his 
former students. One student in particular, 
Laurel Herman, (presently an art director 
for her own firm), studied design, 
typography, and calligraphy at CMU. She 
agrees that Bank was one of the most in
fluential teachers of the written form and 
feels privileged to have had such a devoted 
master as her teacher. She says that to Bank, 
calligraphy is more than pretty letters and 
elegant penmanship, rather, it is an extreme
ly important means of communication that 
is rich in history.
Laurel took her first serious lettering 
classes with one of Banks students, Linda 
Morris, a calligrapher whose work she had 
seen in a show. Extremely determined to 
study under Bank, Laurel went on to take his 
class every semester of her college career at 
CMU. Although, she said, He seemed to 
have an instant dislike for me. He picked on 
me as the sole lemon of his class, one of the 
worst names a student could be called. 
Laurel added that it was not uncommon for 
students to drop out of his class or become 
upset by his harsh criticisms, At least once 
a semester he made a student cry, but 
everyone who stuck with him learned to love 
and respect him. She felt that Banks 
criticisms were not personal  they indicated 
his devotion to his art and were a part of his 
personality. And she said, Since I knew it 
would be a long time, if ever, before I gain
ed his respect as an artrist, I learned to work 
for myselfearning self-confidence. 
Laurel was so personally inspired by Bank 
that she took an independent study in 
paleology, the study of ancient writing. She 
felt Bank was responsible for making her 
stretch; she called him a great motivator.
Years later, thriving in her own business, 
Laurel has received the ultimate accolade 
from Bank. She said, He finally admitted 
that Im not a lemon any more. But those 
few words of praise came only after years of 
perseverance and dedication to the art of 
lettering.
Banks work as a designer is recognized by 
experts as adventurous, full of vigor, color, 
and style. Along with designing his own let
tering portfolio, Bank has designed the let
tering for a number of prominent institu
tions and monuments including: the famous 
Credo monument which stands at 
Rockefeller Center in New York City, ar
chitectural inscriptions for the Institute of 
Fine Arts at New York University, the in
scriptions at the public library of Dayton, 
Ohio, and a number of plaques and inscrip
tions at CMU, including the plaque at Skibo 
and a stained glass window, and plaques 
across campus at Baker Hall, Doherty Hall, 
in the Fine Arts building, and Warner Hall.
Although Bank has produced thousands 
of valuable pieces of art, his ac
complishments have recently attracted a 
great deal of attention in the past six years. 
In 1979, Bank recieved a gold metal from 
the Type Directors Club for outstanding 
achievement in the art of typography; in 
1980, the Society of Scribes Sponsored a 
tribute to Bank at Columbia University; 
and, in 1981 Bank was the honored guest of 
the International Conference on 
Calligraphic Arts. Obviously, Bank is still 
held in high regard as an artist.
As a person outside of the classroom, 
Bank is well versed in music, art, and history. 
In fact, Banks circle of friends includes 
famous artists of all kinds. Moreover, his wife 
Rose is a well-known weaver. Bank enjoyed 
meeting with his students in an informal 
basis. Perhaps that is why Bank and his wife 
Rose held cultural soirees one evening a 
month in his home where distinguished lec
turers spoke and refeshments were served. 
And, according to Laurel, those evenings 
were exclusive because invitations were re
quired. As a student, Laurel was fortunate 
enough to be invited to one such affair, thus 
leading to her friendship with Rose and for
ming a relationship with the Banksthat has 
lasted many years.
Today, Bank lives with his wife Rose in a 
row house cluttered with Banks drawings, 
paintings, and designs along with Roses 
weaving and other pieces of art.
At 77 years old, Bank reflects that his lec
turing was the most important vehicle in 
spreading his philosophies on letter forms. 
He is confident that calligraphy will con
tinue as both a service art for producing 
graphics and as a private art for hobbyists 
and artists. However, he expressed there is 
a need for teachers to keep the art going. 
In a world where technology is taking over 
the graphics industry, specialists in letter 
forms are becoming a rarity.
Banks works have been illustrated in 
four out of five calligraphy books in 
Hunt Library; moreover, Hunt recently 
acquired a number of Banks famous 
works; they are now housed in the 
rare book collections on the fourth floor 
and are available for viewing to anyone 
interested.
R.O.T.C.: More than meets the eye
1ft   m -I  - _  LiiflSr-'';..; _ _  v-v'  _ _ _ _ _ _ mm*7 MITCHLL REICHGUT*% i 
S^ffwrUer . ,
Have you ever walked across <aj|M^ and 
noticed people in fatigues i ijn llffiff itiuiin 
Skibo, or people in blue unifonaffiftdking 
across the cut? This is not a new fadUreated 
hy the latest Ram bo movie, it  difec to Ar
my and Air Force R.O.T.C. These four let 
ters stand for Reserve Officer Training Corps 
and the people that belong to R.O.T.C. are 
^ Proud to be a part of it. These CMU 
students take special classes and leam special 
skills that are relevant to the branch of the 
, service they will be entering. People in these 
{Pro?rams do not simply sign their lives away 
| as one might be inclined to think at first, 
j c is actually quite the opposite. When sojrneone joins R.O.T.C. they do not actually 
piake any commitments until the beginning 
I lheir sophomore year. Then they have a
choice of either going into active or reserve 
duty after school. (Active being a full-time 
four year program, and reserve being a sixyear program where you are involved one 
weekend a month and two weeks every 
summer.)
Why would a student choose to do this? 
Its not because of sadistic tendenciesthere 
are several important reasons. For one, it is 
something different an adventure. Where 
else can a college student drive a tank, rapell 
down a mountain side, or build a 
camouflage shelter? People in both branches 
of the R.O.T.C. have many opportunities to 
have a good time. There is, however, a great 
deal more to it than that. Dave Nardozzi 
who is a sophomore this year and in the Air 
Force R.O.T.C. said, When youre finished 
with school you are assured of a job. You 
come out of the service with a great deal of
management and leadership experience that 
you cant'get anywhere else. Once the stu
dent graduates college he or she is an officer 
an<ca& t>e put in charge of between eight 
and 60 people right away. Not to mention 
the fact that he or she may be working on 
top notch government projects that have 
large government budgets.
As you can see the time after college is not 
wasted. As a matter of fact it is put to great 
use. Dave pointed out that many people con
tinue on in the service even after the four 
or six years. He said the benefits are ex
cellent and there are great opportunities for 
advancement. Whilp attending college, 
students in R.O.T.C. feel that they are ac
tually part of an actual Army or Air Force 
base. There is a chain of command, drills, regulations, inspections, and everything one 
would expect from any other military base.
One would think thac thi* kind of training 
and restriction would be hard to deal with, 
but Michelle Boulanger who is a senior and 
in the Army R.O.T.C. said "its a lot of lear
ning but we have a lot of fun too. Both Dave 
and Michelle pointed out that people who 
are in R.O.T.C. develop a special kind of 
friendship with each other; they go through 
a lot together but share good times as well. 
Not only that, but a great percentage of peo
ple in each of the R.O.T.C. programs have 
become elligible for special scholarships. 
Many of them have their entire education 
paid for, including books, tuition, school 
fees, and even spending money. So, next time 
you see someone in an Army or Air Force 
umlorm remember that there is a great deal 
more to them than what meets the eye.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 5, 1985
Automation vs imports: who's taking the jobs?
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
A robot is a reprogrammable multifunc
tional manipulator according to the 
Robotics Institute of America. According to 
the media and a large segment of the 
population at large, we could also add a 
serious threat to the livelihood of every bluecollar worker in America to that definition.
In his October 23 lecture at CMU, Kurt 
Vonnegut stated that automation is aimed 
solely at furthering profit and ultimately 
must result in a crippling loss of jobs among 
blue-collar laborers. While its true that in
dustries buy and use robots to reduce the 
need for human labor and reduce the costs 
associated with labor, the idea that automa
tion will simply replace human labor 
without conversely stimulating the economy 
is a grave over-simplification.
As early as 1961, the federal government 
was forming special committees to consider 
the automation problem, so the ap
pearance of the issue has not been a sudden 
one. Robotics, and flexible automation in 
general, are the products of a gradual evolu
tion in industry. And though robots may be 
portrayed as rapidly taking over all in
dustrial jobs, the population of robots in 
American factories is still small. Less than 
10,000 robots are in use right now in 
manufacturing. Each robot is designed to 
replace one or two human workers per shift; 
given that there are three shifts every day, 
each robot is expected to replace up to six 
workers.
What exactly is the role of robots in in
dustry today? According to J. Todd Simonds, 
Associate Director of the Robotics Institute 
at CMU, robots have two basic functions in 
industry; one of these is the reduction of 
hazard. Robots are used in hazard reduction 
because they can function in environments 
where a human laborer can not, such as the 
basement of the Three Mile Island nuclear 
power plant, or at extreme underwater 
depths, or in fire rescue. I doubt that many 
people would argue the obvious advantages 
of robots in these situations, but robots in 
conventional manufacturing settings cause 
considerably more controversy.
This second function, automating con
ventional manufacturing facilities, is attrac
tive to industry because it both reduces cost 
and increases productivity. As robotics 
technology improves, robots are able to
replace the human hand in an assembly line. 
Robots are much better in the interface bet
ween machines and the products being 
made, because they make far fewer mistakes 
than a human machine operator. Consider
ing that traditional unautomated manufactureres spend more money inspecting their 
products for mistakes than they spend on the 
labor which actually produces the products, 
the low margin of error associated with 
automated factories becomes even more 
attractive. Robert Avres of the Engineering 
and Public Policy department says, the 
trend toward factory automation is really 
driven by the simple fact that human beings 
doing repetitive jobs make too many errors; 
consequently, robots are used instead to 
upgrade the quality of the product. 
Automation for the sake of increased pro
ductivity is nothing new in industry. The 
U.S. farm industry is a classic example of 
relatively rapid automation to increase pro
ductivity. There are always growing pains 
associated with each phase of an evolu
tionary process, the question is how to best 
deal with the changes. Sam Keahey, who is 
affiliated with a technology firm located out
side of Harrisburg, points out that this form
,f youve been wanting the American Express* Card for some time, this is some . time to apply.Because if youre a senior, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job.Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks.(And even if you dont have a job right now, dont worry. This offer is still good for 12 months after you graduate.) Why is American Express making the Card a little easier for seniors to get?Well, to put it simply, we believe in your future And this is a good time to show itfor we
can help m a lot of ways as you graduate. The Card can help you be ready for business. Its a must for travel to meetings and entertaining. And to entertain yourself, you can use it to buy a new wardrobe for work or a new stereo.The Card can also help you establish your credit history, which can help in your future.So call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask to have a Special Student Application sent to you. Or look for one on campus.The American Express" Card.Dont leave school without it.SM
O I9R5 American Express Travel Related Service Compnv. If*.
of automation has some unique 
characteristics, however. These are the first 
really versatile machines and their impact 
will be felt across industries, not just by the 
worker on the assembly line. The whole con
cept of managment and labor-management 
relations will be affected by machines which 
will form a complete network throughout 
factories and not just function as separate 
entities.
On August 7, 1983, nearly 700,000 AT&T 
workers walked off the job, but the corpora
tion continued to operate as if it barely 
noticed the massive walk out. At that time 
97 percent of AT&Ts calls were relayed 
without human assistance. This is a perfect 
illustration of the loss of union leverage 
through automation. Yet labor unions 
themselves look at the issue realistically. Ed 
Ghearing of the United Steel Workers says, 
We do not and never can absorb the 
gradual loss of jobs that will result. Our in
dustry has to be competitive. Foreign in
dustry is a much bigger threat than automation.
For years now, Japanese cars have been 
out selling American cars, not only because 
they can be produced more cheaply, but 
because they are put together better. Both 
of these factors result from the high degree 
of automation in the Japanese auto industry. 
In order to regain some of the market, 
American auto makers, particularly General 
Motors, have been automating to increase 
the efficiency of their plants. Simonds says 
industries must automate, migrate, or 
evaporate, and though there is some job loss 
associated with the first, the effects of the 
latter two are obviously far worse for people 
who depend on that industry for their living. 
The statement that automation is designed 
only to increase profit is a fair assertion. In
creased productivity stimulates the economy, 
which in turn results in the creation of new 
jobs and more employment. American in
dustry can improve its productivity through 
automation, or it can drop out of the com
petition. Approximately four million 
manufacturing jobs will be subject to 
robotization over the next twenty years or so, 
but this is a small number when compared 
to the number of jobs that will be lost and 
are now being lost because if the lack of 
competitiveness of American products.
Time to... Care More, Share More
United way
ftttODSi *85
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OUTLET
Services
Gyn Check-Ups
Free Pregnancy Tests
Counseling
St.-Powntowp Pjh.
fill) 8M-18QQ

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 9
So when
By DEEPAK GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
How many times have you found yourself 
blowing off classes or missing some 
homework assignment because you are ab
solutely fed up with studies? On the other 
hand, can you remember those evenings and 
nights when you have finished all your work 
for the next week and consequently have 
nothing to do? In both these cases, you could 
probably watch television. But television 
turns you off because poor picture quality 
or dumb shows do not interest you. Where 
do you go from there? Ping-pong, pool, 
meaningless conversation, complete an 
assignment due in two weeks, or get trashed?
Not necessarily any of the above. Help is 
at hand. Cable television may come to CMU. 
All those videos on MTV and movies on 
HBO may be yours for the asking. But cable 
has been around for five years now. So why 
the delay?
Until this summer, the only cable com
pany serving Pittsburgh was Warner Cable 
Co. Three years ago, the Inter-Fratemtity 
Council approached the Housing Office to 
discuss the possible installation of cable 
television in Fraternity houses. Mr. Anthony 
Martin, Director of Housing, discussed cable 
with Warner Cable executives, but the idea 
just fell through because of the poor 
response from them. One of the obstacles 
which came up was: the problem of wiring. 
There were no wires laid along Morewood 
Avenue or Forbes Avenue; the closest ones 
were along Fifth Avenue. Obviously, the cost 
of laying down the wiring was pretty high. 
Secondly, the idea of a campus-wide network 
of communication was being discussed, and 
Warner Cable wanted to be a part of this 
project and combine it with its network wir
ing. However, CMU was not interested in this 
idea. Incidentally, (believe it not), Warner 
was partially scared of CMUs future 
engineers and scientists, experimenting with 
their cables, splicing them up, or possibly 
breaking some copyright laws by connecting 
many televisions to one outlet.
This summer, Warner Cable sold their 
franchise to Pittsburgh Cable Co. and 
simultaneously Mr. Anthony Martin reac
tivated the cable television file. The Stu
dent Dormitory Council also decided to pro
vide cable television to the dormitories. Ac
cording to Mr. Martin, They (Pittsburgh 
Cable) were extremely positive about the 
idea. But, probably CMU is jinxed because 
even these discussions have reached a 
stalemate. Pittsburgh Cable has not 
responded to the Housing Ofiices proposal. 
Probably one of the reasons is that the com
pany is scared of the amount of money in
volved in wiring the dormitory and house 
lounges and other miscellanous problems in 
relation to the number of connections it will 
obtain. The installation charge is $19.95 and 
it charges a fee of ONLY $9.50 a month for 
its most comprehenisve service! In return, it 
will be serving the whole CMU campus 
through the dormitory and fraternity televi
sions. Not too much money for such a large 
audience.
Still, optimism is running high. The bill
ing method has already been worked out. 
Unlike the telephone bills which are sent to 
each room, the company has agreed to block 
billing: just one bill will be sent to the 
university. Because of the nominal amount 
involved, this expenditure will be easily in
corporated into the house leases in case 
the fraternities and tne Muaent uormuoiy 
Councils budget to cover the dormitories.
If everything goes well and the deal is 
finalized, some of the wiring will be com
pleted by the end of this semester. Most of 
it will be operating by summer 1986. In fact, 
if the Pittsburgh Cable Co. agrees, this wirlng may be extended to each individual 
room. This will include the wiring for the
We are winning.
Please ,i support the AMERICAN CANCER , SOCIETYrtp)AcY\ 'if
do weCable TV?
new workstation and a proposed (and new) 
telephone system. If so, ESPN, MTV, Disney 
Channel, The Movie Channel, Showtime, 
HBO, The Learning Channel, Arts and 
Entertainment Network, The Weather 
Channel, Nickelodeon, The Nation Station, 
WOR, the CBN, USA, MSN, TNN, SPN, 
FNN, CNN and BET cable networks and 
all local channels will be available for your 
viewing pleasure. Perfect reception too! This 
will definitly go a long way in alleviating the 
boredom we all feel sometimes at weekends 
and weeknights. Also, it proves that CMU 
is seriously interested in providing alter
natives to the social life, which is understan
dable looking at its pathetic state anyway. 
Just keep your fingers crossed.
FREE SCREENING
Brought to you courtesy of
AT&T
The right choice.
TICKETS AVAILABLE THRU. WDDE-102.5 FMLISTEN TO WIN
OPENS FRI. N0V.8 AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland Yard 
Grand Opening
  ,   .c^ .
November 15-16, 1985
Live entertainment and a menu 
to satisfy night-time appetites.
7PM-2AM

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Lake Wobegon Days from Garrison Keillor
Benefit concert: John Cafferty, Joey G., & co.
ing efforts are a string of haiku-like verses 
about college called Dorm Life. Among 
them are a couple about Leave it to Beaver 
(Wally, are you crying/ There in the dark 
room in the box?/ Wally, are we brothers?).
Often touching and always funny, Lake 
Wobegon Days was a place I greatly enjoyed 
visiting, and I plan on returning many times 
to the town where all the women are strong, 
all the men are good-looking, and all the 
children are above average.Drama tickets at
Skibo Info Desk
Student, faculty, and staff drama subscrip
tions and single tickets are now available at 
the Skibo Information Desk an the 
Carnegie-Mellon University campus.
We want to encourage more students, 
faculty and staff to attend our productions, 
says Mary Lou Chlipala, manager of the 
Drama Department box office. Picking up 
tickets at Skibo may be more convenient for 
some people, says Chlipala.
The information desk hours are Mon.- 
Fri., 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. All students receive 
discounts.
The Drama Departments 71st season 
begins on Wednesday, Nov. 6 with Odon von 
Horvaths Tales from the Vienna Woods, 
directed by Jorge Guerra.
On Nov. 13, An Evening with Georges 
Feydeauthree one-act farces opens 
under the direction of Anthony McKay.
Horvaths play and Feydeaus one-acts will 
be performed in repertory beginning with 
Tales Nov. 6-9 and repeating Nov. 20-23, 
while Feydeaus works run Nov. 13-16 and 
again Dec. 4-7.
Tickets are also available at the Drama 
Department Box Office in the Fine Arts 
building, Mon.-Fri. from noon-5 p.m. and 
at the TIX booth in Oliver Square 
downtown.
For additional information call 578-2407.
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
For most listeners of American Public 
Radios A Prarie Home Companion, a twohour assortment of humor and music (most
ly country, bluegrass and jazz by various and 
often unusual artists), the highlight is host 
Garrison Keillors laid-back reminiscences of 
the fictional Minnesota hamlet of Lake 
Wobegon, the town that time forgot and the 
decades cannot improve. Keillor is a master 
storyteller; his affectionate and very funny 
anecdotes are delivered in a low, mellow 
voice with deft timing and a gentle wit that 
is irresistible. A Prarie Home Companion is 
currently the hottest thing in public radio; 
Keillors picture was on the cover of last 
weeks Time, and his new book Lake 
Wobegon Days has spent the last month or 
so hovering near the top of the best-seller 
list.
Lake Wobegon Days, drawing on material 
from Keillors Prarie Home monologues and 
his pieces in The New Yorker, is a sort of free
form memoir of the authors imaginary 
hometown. The town appears on no maps, 
Keillor explains, due to a surveying error 
that was corrected by deleting from maps 
the region of Minnesota that contains Lake 
Wobegons Mist County. The author brings 
this spurious community to life, from the 
towns murky origins in the nineteenth cen
tury, involving lost French explorers and 
flaky Unitarian missionaries to stories of 
Lake Wobegons infamous Norwegian 
bachelor farmers and the towns bush-league 
baseball team, the Lake Wobegon 
Whippets.
We also meet the beer-guzzling, duckhunting Sons of Knute, who celebrate the 
spring thaw by towing a 49 Ford out onto 
the frozen surface of Lake Wobegon and 
take bets on what day it will fall through the 
melting ice. Keillor mines Lake Wobegons 
religious community for a number of 
humorous bits. The young narrators fami
ly belongs to a minor sect called the Sacred
Brethren, which holds its services at Aunt 
Flos house. The Lutherans across the street 
seem to have a lot more fun with all their 
hymn singing, as do the Catholics down the 
street at Our Lady of Perpetual Responsibili
ty, with interim pastor and avid amateur 
golfer Father Frank, who preaches that the 
Lord maketh the ball to lie in the fairway 
and leadeth it around the water hazards. 
Yea. Though we walk in the rough, we will 
fear no bogey...
Prarie Home Companion fans will be pleas
ed that all the Wobegonian staples are in this 
book: the Sidetrack Tap, Ralphs Pretty 
Good Grocery, the Statue of the Unknown 
Norwegian. But amid all the anecdotage 
and fabricated historical data are some very 
real sketches of growing up in a small town. 
And Keillor is not blind to the darker side 
of midwestern life. In a very lengthy foot
note are the 95 Theses, a list of grievances 
by a disgruntled Lake Wobegon expatriate. 
Based on Martin Luthers list of 95 abuses 
of the Roman Church, the 95 Theses sub
mitted to the Lake Wobegon Herald-Star 
(published by one Harold Starr) but never 
printed. Most of them are witty and cynical 
jabs against the hypocrisies of the writers 
parents generation, but many of them carry 
an authentic bitterness, and a few of them 
have a real bite, such as #62: Bigotry is 
never a pleasant subject so you didnt bring 
it up but you stuck by your guns anyway. In
dians were drunks, Jews were thieves, and the 
colored were shiftless. Where you got this,
I dont know, because there were none of 
them around, but you believed it more ab
solutely for the utter lack of evidence. 
One of my favorite parts of the book is the 
section about struggling Wobegonian writer 
Johnny Tollefson, back in town after a suc
cessful freshman year at St. Cloud State. 
Faced with a lack of inspiration, he lists the 
three things that would make him a better 
writer: sex, a trip to Europe, or despair. 
With the first two inaccessible he involun
tarily opts for the third. He goes to the illreputed Sidetrack Tap for a shot of despair 
(Men love darkness rather than light 
because their deeds are evil) but only ends 
up getting drunk. Among his more endurBeaver Brown and the Brick Alley Band 
should mesh well, what with the formers 
On the Dark Side,and C-I-T-Y, blending 
with Joey Gs driving Radio Ears and 
Striking Out. The Brick Alley Bands new 
single is available at all National Record 
Mart stores as are the concert tickets, pric
ed at $10.00. Tickets can also be purchasT his Joey G. and the Brick Alley Band single was funded by the United Steelworkers. e(j at t^e Bosque gox office.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
By PATTI THOMPSON
Special to The Tartan
Steelworkers have tried just about 
everything to bring jobs back into the Mon 
valley. Now theyre trying music. Taking a 
cue from Live Aid, Farm Aid, and the like, 
the Tri-State Conference on Steel has per
suaded John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown 
band to perform at a benefit concert at the
Syria Mosque on November 22.
All monies raised from the benefit will go 
towards Tri-States efforts to retain heavy in
dustry in the region. The group is currently 
involved, among other things, in the muchpublicized drive to save the Dorothy Six fur
nace in Duquesne.
But the band that is opening for Beaver 
Brown has a stronger connection with the
steelworkers than just a concert. Joey G. and 
the Brick Alley Band, Oakland favorites who 
often call the Decade home, have had their 
latest single financed by the United 
Steelworkers. The 45, believed to be the first 
rock n roll record ever sponsored by a labor 
union, features Stand Up and Victory, 
both of which emphasize the plight of the 
regions unemployed.
The bands namesake, Joey Grushecky, 
was until recently the driving force behind 
the Iron City Houserockers, a similar 
Pittsburgh-based group who released three 
relatively unsucessful albums on MCA 
before being purged with around 30 other 
groups late in 1983.
The Brick Alley band is looking for 
another record contract now, offering 
unadulterated blue-colllar rock and roll. 
Although they still perform many 
Houserocker favorites, including their theme 
Pumping Iron, Joey G. has attempted to 
lead the band in a different direction. For 
example, Goodbye Steeltown, a wren
ching ballad about families in the Mon 
Valley, features Grusheckys powerful lyrics 
but has a much more polished sound than 
the early Houserocker tunes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 5, 1985
RCBB celebrates Andy's birthday with music
The River City Brass Band will present 
the last concert program of its Fall Series 
when it celebrates the 150th birthday of An
drew Carnegie with a concert entitled 
Scotland The Brave, to be presented on 
Saturday, November 16, 8:00 p.m. at 
Carnegie Music Hall, and repeated on Sun
day, November 17, 7:30 p.m. at the South 
Hills Theatre and on Tuesday, November 19, 
8:00 p.m. at Gateway High School.
RCBBs music director, Robert Bernat, 
visited Andrew Carnegies birthplace in 
Dunfermline, Scotland earlier this year in 
preparation for this salute. I was intrigued 
to discover that both the Carnegie U.K. and 
the Camegie-Dunfermline trusts were active
ly involved in supporting brass bands in 
Scotland and other parts of Great Britain, 
reported Bemat.
The people at both trusts were very aware 
of Andrew Carnegies love of brass band 
music, and were interested to hear about all 
the brass band developments here in 
America.
The Camegie-Dunfermline Trust invited 
the RCBB to perform at their own Carnegie 
birthday celebrations in Scotland this 
month, which proved not to be feasible for 
us. However, said Bernat, the BBC 
Scotland has asked to broadcast our 
November concert in its entirety, and were 
still in the process of making the arBrendan Behan remembered
The Blarney Stone Restaurant announces 
the one-man theatrical production portray
ing the tumultuous life of Brendan Behan. 
Behan was a modern-day Irish rebel, noted 
playright and author. Bom in Dublin inFebruary, 1923, he died in March, 1964 as 
the London Daily Mail said, Too young to 
die, but too drunk to live. He had a total 
disdain for all sham, hypocrisy and authority 
and was never shy about letting those feel
ings be known. His plays The Hostage and 
The Quare Fellow received international ac
claim, and his first book Borstal Boys was 
made into an award-winning play.
Shay Duffin is an accomplished performer 
in Irish theatre, a TV. and movie personali
ty, and a successful recording artist. He
toured in companies of Most Happy Fella, 
Oliver, Finian's Rainbow and Brigadoon. 
Shay Duffin was recently awarded the Los 
Angeles and San Francisco Drama Critics 
Best Actor Award and has first-hand ex
perience in bringing to life the outrageous 
character of Brendan Behan. Shay and 
Brendan were both bom in Dublin, both 
lived on the same street, and bear a 
remarkable resemblance to each other.
Confessions of an Irish Rebel will be run
ning from November 8 til November 24. 
Theatre times are: Wednesdays and 
Thursdays at 8:30 PM, Fridays and Satur
days at 9:00 PM, and Sundays at 7:00 PM. 
Dinner will be served approximately two and 
one-half hours before show time.
rangements for that.
The RCBBs Scotland The Brave concert 
will be devoted to the music of Scotland, 
plus pieces by composers the wee Scotsman 
most admired.
Denis Wrights rollicking Tam O Shanters 
Ride will be a highlight of the evening, and 
audiences will be able to use the graphic pro
gram notes to follow Tam along on this cau
tionary tale of the dangers of taking too 
much strong drink and interfering with the 
devils business.
Making its second appearance with the 
RCBB will be the evenings guest artists, The 
MacDonald Pipe Band. They will join the 
brass band for the title piece, as well as for 
an audience sing-along of the beautiful 
hymn Amazing Grace.
Edward Elgar, one of Carnegies favorite 
composers, will be represented on the pro
gram with his Imperial March, and RCBBs 
solo cometist, Bernard Black, will be
featured on the Scottish folk-song My Love 
Is Like A Red, Red Rose. In addition, the 
band will perform the Dedication March for 
Orchestra by Adolph Foerster, a piece writ
ten for the first opening of Carnegie Music 
Hall in Pittsburgh in 1895.
Other selections on the program include 
a traditional folk-song medley, Scottish La
ment, Bryden Thomsens march The Nybbs, 
dedicated to the National Youth Brass Band 
of Scotland, Scottish Fantasy by Gordon 
Langford, and the familiar Loch Lomond 
and Cornin Thro the Rye.
Some sections of Carnegie Music Hall are 
sold out for the November 16th perfor
mance. However, there are good seats still 
available there, as well as at the South Hills 
Theatre on November 17, and at Gateway 
High School on November 19.
Tickets for the concerts at all three sites 
are available at the TIX Booth in Oliver 
Plaza, or by phoning 322-RCBB.
Student art at Forbes Gallery
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Sarah Becker, Kathryn Sitter, and Mary 
Sullivan will open their exhibition of pain
tings, prints, and sculpture at 7 p.m. tonight 
at the Forbes Gallery. Refreshments are 
served and youre all invited. The same goes 
for the first Reading at Forbes, sponsored by 
the CMU Writers Guild, which will be at 
the Forbes Gallery at 7 p.m. on Thursday. 
The reading features the work of Chris Cor
rigan, Jim Crary, Kevin Harris, and once
Start your career 
the way we started
our company Right.
Get your career off to the right start with 
the company that started a revolution in 
the CAE industry: Our fully-integrated, 
high-powered, Apollo-based worksta
tions have changed the way designers 
work. Weve captured the lead in world 
CAE sales, and we re expanding our 
efforts in both hardware and software.
If you want to do things right, do them at 
Mentor Graphics. We currently have 
opportunities for:
Software Development Engineers 
Hardware Development Engineers
To Find Out More 
See Us On Campus 
November 6, 1985 
7:00 PM - 9:00 PM 
Skibo, Room 11
If you cant attend, send your resume to 
Mentor Graphics, College Relations 
Dept., 8500 S.W. Creekside Place, Bea
verton, OR 97005-7191. We are an affir
mative action and equal opportunity 
employer.
_ Mentor Graphics
again Sarah Becker.
Sarah is showing prints and paintings this 
week. The paintings of spray pain and paint 
marker, both stencilled and freehand, in 
very bright colors, for the most part in
tersperse the figure of a man playing a guitar 
with various words. Some of the poetry she 
will be reading relates to the main body of 
her work that will be on display this week: 
a series of five large (about 2} by 7 feet) 
woodcuts. The prints depict nude women 
holding big guns.
Mary Sullivan also uses people in her 
work; in her case the people are street peo
ple done in acrylics on large canvases. The 
newer paintings reduce the figures to flat, 
bright shapes, but some of her older pain
tings include landscapes with lots of textures 
and lots of colors. Marys prints are 
silkscreens, which again emphasize texture 
and color. She says, Im against painting for 
the elite group of painters. I want the public 
to experience my paintings as well.
Gallery hours: Wednesday 8:00 a.m.-9:00 
p.m., Thursday through Saturday 10:00
a.m.-6:00 p.m., and Sunday 12:00 p.m.-5:00 
p.m. Opening receptions are Tuesdays at 7 
p.m. Readings at Forbes are Thursdays at
7 p.m. refreshments are always served at 
both.
SHAY DUFFIN IS BRENDAN BEHAN 
IN CONFESSIONS OF AN IRISH 
REBEL
Were reaping the benefits; 
hes terrific.Ed Blank Pitt
sburgh Press 1/29/85 
November 8November 24
Blarney Stone Restaurant 
30 Grant Auenue, ETNA 
(412) 781-1666
Student Discount$6.50 _

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 13
The music of Ireland lives on in America
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Contributing Editor
Once upon a time, there was a land where 
musicians, historians and writers were 
politically important. In order to remember 
the brehon laws, lineage and histories, these 
men  bards or fili  were considered se
cond in political power only to their King. 
As a result, the bard was more important 
than warriors or merchants, SEI contractors 
or MBAs.
The land referred to is not a fiction, unless 
Ireland be considered as such, and the music 
of the fili lives on in Pittsburgh.
One medium for keeping this tradition 
alive is the annual Pittsburgh Celtic Festival,
which recently held three concerts featuring 
Irish music.
Some of the best music at the Festival was 
performed by Joe and Antoinette McKenna. 
Whispers of an ancient past could be heard 
in Joes uilleann pipe and Antoinettes harp, 
mixed with the changes history is wont to 
wrought. History clouded the tradition so 
much, in fact, that Irish traditional music 
has been in danger of extinction a number 
of times.
Three hundred years back the British 
government banned the music and the 
Gaelic language as part of the Penal Laws. 
The laws were used to encourage conversion 
from Catholicism to Anglicanism. Usually
CMU opens new art gallery
An exhibition by Mel Bochner, a native 
Pittsburgher, is currently on display at the 
new Camegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. 
The show, the first at the gallery, runs until 
December 22.
The gallery, located at 407 S. Craig Street, 
will contain 16 of Bochners paintings. 
Bochner has also executed two wall draw
ings in the gallery.
Were delighted that an artist of Mell 
Bochners international stature is the first ar
tist to have works shown in our gallery, says 
curator Elaine King. Its particularly mean
ingful to us at the University because he is 
a native Pittsburgher and a 1962 graduate 
of Camegie-Mellon.
The Bochner exhibition, she says, also 
gives us an educational opportunity to 
showcase important contemporary art from 
around the world.
During the Bochner show, were plann
ing to have several gallery talks, including 
one by Bochner on Nov. 23 and one by art 
critic Donald Miller on Nov. 10. In addtion 
there are weekly Saturday afternoon gallery 
talks conducted by docents from the 
Museum of Art.
Bochner is best known for his post
minimalist, non-object works, although his 
approach has shifted to oil canvas painting 
on geometric forms. In 1981 he was invited
to paint Syncline, a 23-foot-long work in 
the Scaife Gallery at Pittsburghs Museum 
of Art.
An 84-page catalog with color illustrations 
accompanies the exhibition.
The exhibition is supported in part by the 
National Endowment for the Arts, Penn
sylvania Council on the Arts, Allegheny 
Foundation, Alcoa, Howard Heinz Endow
ment and the Camegie-Mellon College of 
Fine Arts.
The Camegie-Mellon Art Gallery hours 
are 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Tuesday to Fri
day; 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Saturday; and 
1:00 to 4:00 p.m., on Sunday.
such laws succeeded only in fostering resent
ment. The music the McKennas play lived 
in defiance.
But again history threatened to kill the 
ancient music. In 1922, the Republic of 
Ireland (the southern counties where a 
Catholic majority resides) gained its in
dependence from Britain. The music that 
had contributed to the republican spirit 
seemed unnecessary.
When Antoinette was growing up in 
Dublin forty years ago, she became in
terested in traditional music through her 
family. The kids in school laughed at me, 
she remembers.
The troubles in Northern Ireland, where 
the Irish Republican Army on one side and 
Orangemen on the other, terrorize the 
population, gave traditional music a 
resuscitation. The Irish would not sing as 
much if it were not for the trouble in the 
North, observes Joe.
Antoinette agrees, explaining that the 
music is very related to the soul of the peo
ple. It can be an answer to the poverty and 
terror of the situation.
Unfortunately, music can also be a vehi
cle for playing beliefs against one another. 
The McKennas try to avoid this kind of con
frontational approach. Whenever the cou
ple goes to Belfast in Northern Ireland, they 
seek out Protestant, traditional musicians. 
We get together in a pub, and we all play 
together, said Joe.
Today the dreaded sickle of history again 
attacks one of the oldest surviving musical 
traditions. Todays generation is interested 
largely in rock music, whether in the United 
States or elsewhere in the western world.
But it would seem that traditional Irish 
music is particularly conducive to applica
tion to rock music, if Stocktons Wing is in 
any way indicative. This band, which per
formed recently at the Blarney Stone in Et
na, mixes traditional sounds of flute, 
acoustic guitar, banjo, mandolin and fiddle 
with the rock sounds of a bass guitar, 
keyboard and drum set.
The result is a clean, crisp rock sound 
reminiscent of Men at Work that remains 
faithful to the ancient reels, jigs and ballads 
sung by the fili in the ancient past.
One example of the way Stocktons Wing 
use this mix is in Sally Lenins Jigs, a com
position of actual Irish jigs adapted to a rock 
song. Another method is used in Golden 
Stud. This song is primarily a rock piece, us
ing synthesized wind and drum-thunder at 
the beginning. The primary instrument in 
the song, however, is the fiddle, a traditional 
instrument.
With groups like Stocktons Wing 
breathing new life into the old music kept 
alive by the McKennas, Pittsburgh neednt 
worry about traditional Irish music having 
a terminal disease.
H/VII2 CLUIUK
i&Jv"
406 South Craig St. 
Oakland
Phone: 621-HAIR
 Ha* Cutting  Spaoai ENaca  Body Warn* Hair Color
Save Five Dollars! S
i
Present This Coupon And j
I 
I
Receive AHAIRCUT $1000
* Men* Or 
Women'sQuadri
Save Six Dollars! i
Present This Coupon And J 
Receive A COMPLETEPERM $29 |
Reg.Includes: Haircut, Price {
Perm, Blow Dry And Styling $35."
PREGNANT?
And you didn t mean to be? For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
GSIA
we cany compiere 
line of products;
NEXK/S * TCI - 
SEBASTIAN* 
REDKEN
T f M0N.-FBI. 9to9
Lewis SAT. 9 to 5
015 S. Aiken Ave. ? Shadyside
662* 4063 j
COtWN^SAVe!
lewis coupon
41-00 OFF PURCHASE OF ?SOO OR MOBE
Epines 12/31/65 B
STUDENTS
RATE
You're #1 with National. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu
dent I.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by to fill out a short 
cash qualification form at
* Weekend rate available noon Thursday through Monday. Certain daily minimums apply.Rates will be slightly lower for drivers over 25.
least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca
tion. We also accept most lit 
major credit cards.
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevrolet Chevette
Son-discountable rate applies to this or similarsize car and is subject to change without notice. 
Specific cars subject to availability.
Call for details.
National Car Rental
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention*
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682*1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS
PRESENTS
An Evening with Windham Hill
O'
"VY '
b,-~- M:h,- -I: ?   <
.. s;v.. I>f 

 ' ' 
M:.'i >**><.M*>:> 'Ary.; ::?xi KARENW: Sk-rv
presenting
Michael Hedges 
Darol Anger 
Mike Marshall 
and 
Liz Story
mi
Thursday, November 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Carnegie Music Hall 
$5.00 for students with valid CMU ID 
Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk
V
Funded by Student Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Mecklev and Pecman: Coaches of the Ymar
CMU Harriers Sweep PAC Championships
photo by Erik Horn
Coach Pecman advises her runners in a dual meet in Schenley Park. Coach Meckley after receiving his honors at the Homecoming ceremonies.
O o Volleyball splits week with two wins and one loss
By BARBARA FREESE 
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie-Mellon Womens Volleyball 
team had an exciting week of play. First, in 
a dual meet they were victorious over JohnCarroll and Carlow College. The match 
scores showed CMU outplaying JohnCar
roll by scores of 15-6, 15-7, 15-7. In a closer 
match-up, CMU outplayed Carlow with 
scores of 15-2, 17-15.
Later in the week, they traveled to Hiram 
College where they faced a tough match en
ding in a loss for the Lady Tartans. Hiram 
captured the game with scores of 15-12, 
10-15, 15-6, 11-15, 15-7.
Some individual statistics include 
sophomore Chris Coleman who leads the 
squad with 162 spikes in 58 games for a 2.8 
per game average. She also holds the team 
lead in blocking percentage with 28 blocks 
in 44 attempts. Monica Zalevsky and 
sophomore Marianne Smith are tied with 45 
serving aces each, and Smith is the overall 
leader in assists with 497.
CMU will play their final match of the 
season on Thursday, November 7, at 6 p.m. 
against Grove City College. Grove City is 
undefeated and ranked second in Division 
III. In the words of Coach Jane Fisk. Come 
out and watch CMU try to break Grove Ci
tys streak.
The Lady Tartans put the ball down on their opponents, JCU, on their way to victory.
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Carnegie-Mellon Cross-Country 
teams have only succeeded in expanding 
upon their already sterling reputation this 
weekend with honors coming from many 
directions in the PAC.
The Mens and Ladies teams both reign
ed victorious in their respective competitions
capturing the PAC championship titles. For 
the w6men, it was the first championship of 
its kind and brought with it a special 
honor for their coach. Donna Pecman, in 
her first season as the Lady Harriers leader 
was named PAC Womens Cross-Country 
Coach of the Year.
In the competition itself, the women came 
out on top of John-Carroll University and
Hiram College with a score of 26 points to 
their respective 40 and 58.
In their 2.9 mile run, the Tartans had 
five finishers out of the top 15. Finishing first 
was Margaret Wismer with a time of 21.25 
seconds. Margaret added to her day by 
garnering the Most Valuable Player award. 
Also finishing for CMU were Francesca 
Cranell in fourth place with a time of 22.28. 
Christina de Raad, seventh place 22.56, 
Molly Moritz, tenth place 24.05, and Diane 
Ceonzo, twelfth place 24.48.
The day was an equally productive one 
for the men. They captured their title with 
a score of 34 points over Grove City College, 
42 pts, Hiram College 73 pts, and JohnCarroll University 92 pts. In addition to this, 
Coach Gary Meckley was named PAC 
Coach of the Year for his second consecutive 
year. This is not all for Coach Meckley. In
the most recent issue of Sports Illustrated, 
a national publication, Coach Meckley is 
given recognition for his outstanding 
achievements in the Faces in the Crowd' 
section.
The Tartan men placed seven of their 
runners in the top 15 in their five-mile run. 
Crossing the line first for the Tartans , in 
third place , was senior Mark Sulecki at 
26.38. Following him were, in fifth, Paul 
Camine 27.02, Keith Stopen in seventh at 
27.20, Pat Noll, ninth place at 27.33, Dean 
Danowski, tenth place at 27.33 also, Tom 
Ford , eleventh place at 27.41, and Curtis 
Meuse, in twelfth place at 27.42 points.
While the women have completed their 
season on this high note, the men continue 
next week with the NCAA Eastern Regional 
Championships, followed the next week by 
the NCAA National Championships.

---------------------------------------------------

SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, 
SENIORS
Carnegie -Mellon University Office of the Associate Vice President
Dear Student:
We write to invite you to enroll this spring in 99-200, "The 
Nuclear Age." You cannot understand the current debate over arms 
control, President Reagans Strategic Defense Initiatives, and the 
spectre of "nuclear winter" unless you can put salient issues into a 
broad perspective. Thus we seek to learn from the lessons of the 
past: Through a series of case studies including the bombing of
Hiroshima and the Cuban missile crisis this course will explore the 
challenges and limitations of making 1ife-and-death choices that 
involve fundamental technological matters in the public-policy arena. 
Every policy decision in this area during the last forty years has 
been shaped by scientific facts and uncertainties, political 
calculations and risks, and ethical priorities and ambiguities. Hence 
this course will help you grasp the basics of fission and fusion, 
introduce you to the logic of deterrence theory and the objectives of 
strategic arms limitations treaties, and assess the responsibilities 
of "experts" and concerned citizens in governmental circles.
99-200 will meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 1:45. 
This course will be taught by Lincoln Wolfenstein (University 
professor of physics), Robert Rich (a political scientist in the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs), and Andrew Achenbaum (an 
historian). We have selected readings and chosen lecture and 
discussion topics that are truly exciting, interdisciplinary, and will 
encourage debate. There will be a midterm, research paper, and final.
You may register for the "Nuclear Age" outside of Baker Hall 159 
on November 13-14th. Enrollment will be limited to the first eighty 
students. As the first University Core course designed to confront 
issues that cut across the liberal arts, science and technology, we 
hope that it will attract sophomores, juniors, and seniors from every 
college. Surely the importance of the topic and the comnitment of the 
staff promise to make "The Nuclear Age" one of the most worthwhile 
courses you will take at CMU.
for Academic Affairs 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
(412) 578-3627
November 5, 1985
W. Andrew Achenbaum 
Associate Vice President
Robert Rich
Associate Professor of
for Academic Affairs and 
Professor of History 
X3017
Political Science,
Public Policy and
Management
X8783
University Professor of Physics 
X2752
 Core  Course Worth Takin

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 17
Soccer sets record, possible playoff berth
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Carnegie-Mellon Soccer Team beat 
their team record for most victories in one 
season with their two wins this week. The 
Tartans, led by senior forward Charlie 
Lockhead, won their eleventh and twelfth 
games of the year and closed out the regular 
season at a record of twelve and four.
The Tartans opened the week beating the 
University of Pittsburgh 2-0 on Wednesday, 
and crushed Robert Morris College 6-2 on 
Saturday. With these two wins, head coach 
Nick Gaudioso believes that the team can 
win a spot in the Division III playoffs. CMU 
is currently ranked fifth in the South region, 
and needs to rank fourth or higher to 
qualify.The IM Report
Goalkeeper Sam Montague led CarnegieMellon to its victory on Wednesday, as he 
held Pitt scoreless. Goal scorers for the Tar
tans were Junior Doug Anderson and 
Freshman Mark Zoldi. The victory was very 
important to keep Tartan playoff hopes 
alive, as they still needed the wijj over 
Robert Morris to gain a playoff berth.
Saturdays game was played in constant 
rain and cold, but the Tartans, behind 
Charlie Lockheads two goals won easily 6-2. 
The Tartans fell behind early, as Robert 
Morris scored first twenty seven minutes in
to the first half. But eighteen minutes later, 
Senior Alex Tomlinson tied the score on a 
corner kick by Kevin Jung. Two and a half 
minutes later, the Tartans struck again, as 
Charlie Lockhead scored. That goal gave
There will be an Intramural team 
| Volleyball rules clinic today, November 5 at 
4:30 p.m. in the blue room in the main gym 
| building. A representative from each team 
[must attend this important rules clinic.
In IM Water Polo, Theta Xi is maintainI ing a substantial lead with Fresh holding on! to second followed closely by DTD.
The Racquetball standings show SAE in 
I front in the minor league, with DU-B in sej cond followed by a three way tie for third. 
No major league results have as yet been 
recorded.
IM Bowling matches will be rolled at the 
I Strand Lanes on Saturday mornings at 10 
a.m. All teams please pay bowling fees to 
| Strand Lanes as soon as possible. Any ques
tions, contact commissioner Vince Carozza 
at 687-8940.
In the Intermediate Touch Football 
League, the Crunch Bunch, led by the run
ning of quarterback Robert Bowie and a
very strong defense, defeated last years in
termediate champion Crash Crew 7 to 6, to 
take the 1985 championship. Reports on the 
major and minor finals will be available next 
week.
IM Soccer games will begin Tuesday, 
November 5 at 6 p.m. Contact your respec
tive commissioners: Major league, Dave 
Denhart 681-3249, Intermediate league, 
Dave Shiller x4375, Minor league, Stuart 
Fox x4272. Please check the IM Bulletin 
Board for game schedules.
Last call for IM Darts, the final entry date 
is Thursday, November 7 at 4:30 p.m. 
The commissioner is Pat Carey x4778.
Upcoming Sports include 3-person 
volleyball, backgammon, and darts.
The next IM Board meeting will be held 
Thursday, November 7 12:30 p.m. in the 
IM Office room 101 in the gym. For further 
details, contact Vince Carozza at 
Theta Xi _ 682-0500.
STM
Why Play Games for Points 
When You Can Play for CASH!
A New Concept In Computer Games!
CODEBUSTERS, INC. is revolution
izing the computer game industry; we 
are offering SI 10,000 in total prize 
money to the winners of our contest All 
you have to do is break the codes, find 
the clues, solve the mystery, and collect 
the cash. Its more than a cryptogram, 
more than a word scramble, its a unique 
and challenging way to test your intellect 
Only the first 16 correct answers will
win for each of the first three qualifying 
rounds. Even if youre not a money 
winner but overcome the challenge for 
each of these three rounds, you will 
qualify to receive, (at no additional cost) 
the championship round and could win 
the grand prize of $50,000. So forget 
about scoring points with other games. 
Play CODEBUSTERS for CASH! 
Competition closes July 31, 1986.
$110,000 in Prize Money
Prizes will be offered for each of the three games in the Trilogy'' These prizes will be as follows:GAME 1GAME 2GAME 3(1) FIRST PRIZE$10.000$10,000$10,000(5) SECOND PRIZES1,0001,0001,000(10) THIRD PRIZES500500500S/Per Game$20.000$20,000$20.000* Prizes161616
GRANDPRIZE $50,000.00
jnODHKDSTKUS
Send name, address, and S39.95 for one game or S99.95 for all three games to:
CODEBUSTERS, INC.P.O. Box 6329 AHentown, PA 18001 
Or call (215) 866*4334
Allow 6-8 wee la for delivery 
PA residents include 6% talcs tax 
VOID WHERE REGULATED/ 
PROHIBITED BY LAW
Name
Address. 
City__
? VISA ? MASTERCARD 
Credit Card #_____/____L
Expiration Date.
StateZip.
Alio 6-8 wee la for delivery PA residents include 6% sales tax. 
VOID WHERE REGULATED/PROHIBITED BY LAW
? Check Payable to: CODF BUSTERS, INC.
? IBM Venion ? APPLE II Version
? $39.95 Each Round? $99.95 for TRILOGY
Lockhead a new Tartan record for most 
goals in a season. But that was not all, as 
with three minutes left in the half, Lockhead 
scored again on a penalty kick, giving the 
Tartans a 3-1 lead going into the half.
The second half was much the same, as 
the Tartans kept the ball constantly on 
Robert Morris end of the field. Doug 
Anderson opened the second half scoring 
with his third goal in as many games for 
Carnegie-Mellon. Nine minutes later,
Robert Morris scored on a penalty kick to 
make the score 4-2 in favor of the Tartans. 
Carnegie-Mellon answered back quickly 
with a goal from Alan Mayr, on an assist by 
Kevin Jung. The scoring closed out with a 
goal by Senior John Kenny, to give the Tar
tans a 6-2 win.
If Carnegie-Mellon receives a playoff 
berth, they will play in the South region 
tournament first before going on to the na
tional playoffs for a chance at the Division 
III national championship.
photo by Evan McDonnell
Captain Charlie Lockhead, record holder for most goals in a season, in action against W&J.
TALK TO 
DRAPER
Friday, November 15, 1985 
Carnegie-Mellon University
BS/MS/PhD Candidates - join some of the nation's 
most respected and inventive people at developing 
innovative and fascinating new technologies. As a 
leading hands-on "working laboratory" in 
Technology Sguare. we offer a unigue environment 
for your career to grow and develop. Positions are currently available for candidates in EE, ME, Aero-Astro, CS, Physics and other technical fields in the following areas:
 Control  Real Time  TestSystems Software Engineering
 Avionics * Artificial  Materials Analog & Intelligence ScienceDigital  Solid State  Mechanical
 VLSI Physics DesignComputer Optics  Tribology
Engineering  Spacecraft  Robotics/ Software Dynamics Automation
Development  Guidance &Navigation
Analysis
We are a community of 2,000 and growing. If 
you're looking for a competitive salary, outstanding 
benefits package, including tuition reimbursement, 
and a state-of-the-art professional challenge - we 
want to talk to you
Details available at your Placement Office. The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc., 555 ?
Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139. We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
U.S. Citizenship required.ess The Charles Stark E' Draper laboratory, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST HEART DISEASE
SUPPORT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION, WESTERN PA. CHAPTER
"BIG HEART" BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
NOV. 22-23 at CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FRIDAYPOINT PARK VS. PITT-JOHNSTOWN, 7:00 
CARNEGIE-MELLON VS. LaROCHE, 9:00SATURDAY-CONSOLATION GAME, 6:00 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME,8:00
TOURNAMENT TICKETS 
ADULTS-$5 
STUDENTS-$2
INDIVIDUAL GAME 
TICKETS ARE $3 
FOR ADULTS AND 
$1.50 FOR STUDENTS
PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN AWAY EACH NIGHT 
$100 SCRAMBLE SATURDAY NIGHT
FOR TICKETS CALL 578-3087, 578-2211 or 731-7500
"WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE"
CLUB
Wewould like to include your organization in the 
1986 THISTLE yearbook. To be included in this 
years book you must see our clubs editor this week. 
Please have someone from your organization call or 
stop by the office.
THISTLE Yearbook, 46a Skibo 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15fel2121
Supported, by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 19
Can CMU pull the Pirates out of their slump?
By JOHN FRIEDMANN 
Tartan Business Manager
By now, everyone knows that CMU owns 
a part of the Pirates. How much? Enough 
to have some sort of say in the affairs of the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Co., Inc. So why do we 
always see this Malcolm Price 
guy on the tube when the Buccos are in the news? Its time for 
President Cyert to move in.
First of all, we pay enough in tuition. How 
about some season tickets? And not those $1 
general admission student deals out in the 
Uecker Zone. Of course, just like the CMU 
parking permit process, all the biggies will 
snap up the box seats, so for you H&SS 
freshmen, its up to Level Six. Be sure to 
wave at the airplanes as they fly past.
Season tickets for the CMU community 
will necessitate some changes at the Univer
sity level. Say goodbye to those Wednesday 
night classes when the Pirates are playing. 
Besides, nobody really likes Law in Modem 
American Society anyway. The shuttle will 
be rerouted from Carol, Tudor, and the like 
to Three Rivers Stadium instead. Also, we 
can use the ballpark as a classroom. So long 
2210, hello Three Rivers.
Camegie-Mellon can also supply some of 
the personnel that the Pirates so desperate
ly need: for instance, a general manager. 
Forget those tired baseball names like A1 
Rosen and Gabe Paul, names that have 
become almost synonymous with 5th place. 
Bring on Angel Jordan, CMUs friendly pro
vost. If he can swing a megabuck deal for 
a software institute, he should be able to 
land an All-Star third baseman for about 
the same price. Besides, when it comes to 
getting in the New York Times, Jordans got 
no competition.
High player salaries got you down? Bring 
on Frederick A. Rogers, VP for Business Af
fairs. Given his considerable business 
acumen, the Pirates will have the lowest 
payroll in the National League within two 
years. Ticket scalping a problem? Hell have 
the crack CMU Campus Police force on the 
scene within the hour. And the concession 
stands? Bring on UDS and the work-study 
hordes. The Allegheny Club will become 
Kiltie North.
We can supply a field boss, too. Bring on 
Pittsburghs premier coaching legend, the 
man who controls everything but the 
weather, Chuck Klausing. So what if hes a 
football coach? You cant miss with a guy 
with the kind of winning percentage he has. 
If he prefers to stay on the gridiron, we can 
always lure William Allen, coach of the 
CMU baseball club. Three Rivers Stadium 
sure beats the hell out of Mellon Park, 
Allens usual haunt.
Speaking of the Stadium, that respon
sibility will be firmly ensconced in the hands 
of Athletic Director Jim Banner. Pirate 
game at 7:35? No problem. Plenty of time 
for field hockey at 4, and soccer at 5:30. 
Maybe we can squeeze in football practice, 
too. Gotta utilize those facilities. Assisting 
him will be Keith Moore, who will go from 
University Relations to perking up the Pirate 
image, and our new Director of Media Rela
tions Bruce Gerson, promoted from CMU 
Sports Information Director.
But what about the big boss, President 
Cyert? Will he command the helm of the 
Pirates as they try to return baseball glory 
t0 Burgh? Not quite. Just call him Com
missioner Cyert. Without him as baseball
Czar, MIT might succeed in buying the Red
Sox.
Time to . .. 
Care More, 
Share More
The View Control System from Personics 
gives you a whole new way to command your 
Macintosh. The VCS moves the cursor where you 
look on the screen. A lightweight headset translates 
natural head movement into cursor movement. No 
broad motion is required, just a few degrees of rotation.
Ultrasonic signals transmitted from the VCS Control Unit 
track headset rotation. And a remarkable translation al
gorithm makes the conversion to precise cursor com 
mands just like those produced by your mouse It s more 
than an appealing concept. It really works.
As seen in MACWORLD
Move the Cursor 
at the Speed of Sight.
Look Ma, Both Hands!
Now you dont have to take your hand off the 
keyboard to reach for the mouse. The View 
Control System headset lets you direct the 
cursor by viewing. A unique button pad clips 
on your keyboard just below the space bar. 
One button activates the headset. Use the 
second button for clicking and dragging. No 
more reach, grab, roll, click, return.
Faster Than a Mouse
Since you can look much fester than you can 
reach and roll, the VCS is faster than a mouse. 
And because your hands stay on the keyboard 
you maintain continuity and concentration.
Special Offer for 
Carnegie-Mellon Community
You are influential and we want your support. 
The VCS is a new technology and Personics believes that adoption by students and faculty of important schools like Carnegie-Mellon will 
help us build product acceptance. Identify 
yourself as a member of the Camegie-Mellon community when you order and get your VCS 
for the special price of $149.00. Offer good 
through November 15,1985.
For tasks like word processing and spread
sheet, expect a real boost in productivity.
The VCS works with any 128K or 512K Mac. No 
hardware or software modifications are re
quired. If you want, connect your mouse or 
trackball along with the VCS and use them 
interchangeably.
Just $199.00 
and Easy To Older
The VCS is available right now, directly from 
Personics. Call us toll free. If youre ready to 
order, please have your major credit card at 
hand when you call.
CALL TOLL FREE........... 800-445-3311
In Massachusetts............ 800-447-11%
When your VCS arrives, try it for 30 days. If 
youre not completely satisfied, return it O id 
we will swiftly refund your money. Satisfaction 
guaranteed. University and corporate 
purchase orders accepted.
Personics Corporation 
2352 Main Street, Building 2, Concord, MA 01742 
(617) 897-1575
Product Review
Its all quite interesting and sexy m a tecbnologicalway, but bow well does it work? have used 
theVCSfora week. Thefirst day was something of 
a strain, as I found myself overshooting screen 
targets and making exaggerated bead motions. 
After a few days, using the system became second 
nature. My thumbs fell readily on the buttons 
below the space bar, and the cursor always 
seemed to be just where I was looking. After a 
week, you '11 wonder how you managed without 
it. On the whole, the View Control System repre
sents a real advantage over the mouse for 
many Mac tasks
ICON - Magazine of The Association
of Apple 32 Users
Customer Letters
/ just received my VCS and am more than de
lighted with its performance. I couldn't beliete 
that it twuld be able to work one pixel at a time 
but it does, and that with less than an hour 's use 
It s the best thing yet that I hate seen for con
trolling the Macintosh.
My daughter and!are certainly enjoying our 
flying mouse  Not only is it terribly ingenious, 
it really works very smoothly and uith fine 
sensitivity Congratulations on an innovative 
advance
I am a universityprofessor and I do a substan
tial amount of writing I fust finished a mono
graph of about 64 single-spaced pages / used the 
VCS for the entire project and it performed beau
tifully. If there were a marketfor my mouse. I 
might sell it

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 5, 1985
Hockey Club shuts out Slippery Rock 1-0
Rob Katz takes a shot on goal against Duquesne. The Tartans beat Slippery Rock this week 1-0.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Carnegie -Mellon Hockey Club even
ed its record at 2-2 last Saturday with a 
hard-fought 1-0 victory over Slippery Roc'* 
University.
Right wing Rob Katz scored the only 
point of the game with 5:53 remaining ir 
the second period on the rebound of a Do* 
Heyse shot.
CMU outshot Slippery Rock 32-17, as the 
Tartans had lots of chances, but the goalie 
came up with a lot of good plays, in the 
words of Mike Halloran. Halloran also com 
plained about the rink conditions.
The Tartans were without two key 
players, right wing Pat Mercak, and 
defenseman Sean McGinn, who was out due 
to a virus. This and other absences caused 
team captain Mike Halloran to have to jug. 
gle players in order to compose three lines, 
a feat he barely achieved.
The game was considerably rougher than 
CMUs first three games. Carnegie -Melloris 
John Barret came away from a second I 
period fight with a ten minute major for 
* fighting, elevating the Tartans to 26 penal-1 
ty minutes versus SLUs 16.
Munch,
The munchies are after 
you. There is only one 
way to stop them...a hot 
fresh, made-to-order pizza 
with 100% real dairy 
cheese Dominos Pizza 
 will deliver it to your door 
in 30 minutes or less.
munch,
When you get the urge 
for something to munch 
on, call Dominote Pizza... 
oefore its too late I 
Dominos Pizza Delivers."
munch
Open for lunch
11 am-2am Sua-Thurs 
11 am-3am FrL&Sat.
We use only 100% real 
dairy cheese.
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
01983 Domino's Pizza, Inc
Fast, Free Delivery"
315 North Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
$2.00 off any 16 large 
2 item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 11/17/85
Fast, Free Delivery"
623 Greenfield Ave 
Phone: 521-2970

---------------------------------------------------

ATLAS
COMET HALLEY RETURNS
con NOV.
ASTRONOMY CLUB 1985
MEETINGS EVERY WEDNESDAY 
DH2304
Please help us support the 
Multiple Sclerosis Society 
Karin Johnson Asthma 
Research Fund 
andSuicide Prevention Center
this Friday, November 8, when
THETA XI presents 
the Mini-Miracle Mile
fundraiser
CalculusPH-126APrel, N. HI
PhysicsPH -126B
ChemistryPH-225B
English asaBH  1356second language
EconomicsPH-226B
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 2356
held between Doherty Hall and Baker Hall, 
from 9:00 a.m.5:00 p.m.
BRING YOUR QUARTERS!
-Then everyone come party that evening when 
"Theta Xi" and "Kappa Delta Rho" hold the 
FABULOUS FUNDRAISING PARTY
at THETA XI, from 9:00 p.m.2:00 a.m.
$2 Donation Requested at the door 
PRIZES will be given out
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Political activism at CMU informative if viewed intelligently
In a departure from its normally apathetic, 
apolitical atmosphere, the CMU campus this 
semester has witnessed a veritable storm of 
political activism. On Oct. 18, Students 
Against Apartheid and several other campus 
groups sponsored a well-organized, informative 
rally against CMUs policy regarding South 
Africa. Both the CMU Radio Club and the 
Peace Alliance have taken measures to aid the 
victims of the recent earthquake in Mexico, 
and we now have two groups with diametrically 
opposed views on abortion.
All this is well and good. Students are 
generating their own noise, and they are do
ing it out of concern for something other than 
their studies.
This campus has also witnessed a number 
of visitors worthy of our welcome. The Hare 
Krsnas, for instance, stood on sidewalks one 
afternoon, distributing literature and recipes 
to students. The Krsnas do not make a prac
tice of forcing their views on uninterested par
ties, but are receptive to questions. Surely we 
should be tolerant of such an unobtrusive 
group.
Recently, however, two individuals station
ed themselves outside Skibo with the pretense 
of handing out information on AIDS. Or so 
they told Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter, 
who with good intentions allowed them to come 
to the campus. These individuals, however, 
grossly misrepresented themselves: they were 
selling, not distributing, pamphlets enshrining 
paranoid delusion as a governing force in in
ternational policy, and their only approach to 
the AIDS problem was a crazed attempt to 
blame it on liberal political biases.
Certainly their sign which read, Liberals 
Are More Deadly Than AIDS, robbed them 
of any credibility. Students should have been 
insulted by this display, and many were. But 
the issue is not just how to deal with emotional
ly disturbed extremists; they eventually left and 
according to Walter, will not be allowed to 
return. What we students should learn from 
such an incident is the difference between the 
sorts of political statements our students are at
tempting to make, and the incoherent babble 
which makes a mockery of those attempts.
Free-thinking individuals can organize on 
this campus and make effective political 
statements. If these statements are valid, they 
can withstand opposing viewpoints. If the 
group espousing a view is truly interested in the 
issue at hand, it should be prepared to talk with 
other students about it not so much for the 
purpose of forcing that student tb agree, but 
to foster an exchange of knowledge.
University life affords a great opportunity to 
seek out a variety of viewpoints. Let us con
tinue, then, to participate in this resurgence 
of political activity, and to save intolerance not 
for views which merely oppose, but for views 
which oppose any sort of reasonable discussion. 
It is our campus, and in our attempt to learn 
more about issues such as apartheid, AIDS or 
abortion, we have no need for such stupidity.
M.SltSMAN
The perils of walking across the cut.
There is somewhere to go
Editor:
We at the Counseling and Stu
dent Development Center thank 
you for your recent recognition of 
our services. However, we wish to 
clarify that distressed students 
who call our office after 5:00 p.m. 
hear a recorded message which 
states:
The Counseling Center is 
closed. If you have an 
emergency, call Security at 
578-2323. They will page Dr. 
Lorrie Rabin and she will call 
you. Again, for emergencies, 
call 578-2323 and ask for Dr. 
Rabin.
We want students to know that 
professional help for people in 
crisis has always been available 
and will continue to be available 
24 hours a day.
Lorrie E. Rabin, Ph.D.
Director, Counseling Center
s note* I messed up.
pression that if you were 
distraught late at night there was 
no where to call. In fact, Dr. Lorrie Rabin and Dean of Student 
Affairs Braden Walter are on call 
24-hours a day, seven days a 
week. They have pagers that are 
with them all the time. Dr. Rabin 
and Dean Walter pointed out that 
they do receive calls all the time. 
This is something I should have 
researched and found out before 
hand.
The Counseling Center is a 
great place to go for help. Their 
staff is well qualified and 
prepared to handle almost 
anything. Although at times they 
do get overbooked, leading to 
some students having to wait for 
help, they do reserve time each 
day for crisis situations, so no one 
with an urgent problem will be 
turned away.
The waiting list is obviously not 
a good situation, but the people 
at the center are trying to fix it. 
Unfortunately, there are only so 
many counselors in a center theft 
is used extensively by students.
All agree that there should be 
some sort of 24-hour study place 
for students, but few agree on the 
solution. We at The Tartan will 
continue to look into this 
situation.
Please excuse the error from 
last week. If you need to talk, 
there is someone to talk to. 
Perhaps making two or thr%e 
phone calls, plus hearing a taped 
message is not a perfect solution 
to 24-hour counseling, but there 
is somewhere to go for help.
If ever you are in need of a real 
hot-line service, there is a good 
one in Pittsburgh, called Contact 
Pittsburgh. Their Crisis Hotline 
number is 782-4023.
Look inside before outside
Editor:
In recent weeks, Tartan staff 
writers have expressed indigna
tion at student apathy toward 
The Tartan. It seems to me that 
The Tartan editorial staff might 
better encourage contributions to 
The Tartan by spending a bit 
more time doing their jobs and a 
bit less time soliciting potential 
writers. The October 29th issue 
contains three flagrant abuses of 
the English language in two dif
ferent articles.
The article about Mr. Vonneguts speech contains the
sentence, If it was that Vonneguts lecture last Wednesday, 
then you have a grasp of what it 
could be like to have your 
Universe bent and reinstated in
to a completely different view of 
existence. Firstly, the subjunctive 
mode (or mood) is required when 
describing hypothetical situations 
(i.e. the sentence should read If 
it were...). Secondly, 
reinstated is unquestionably not 
what Ms. Cohen meant. I dont 
pretend to know what she did 
mean, but transformed is more 
grammatically correct.
I  lit <(.it .  t V|, - J tl . * >
The article on homosexuals 
says, Today, however, I have 
altered my position about gays, 
adapting the live and let live 
philosophy. I suppose you could 
claim the typesetter substituted 
a for an o, but that seems 
unlikely.
These are not errors I expect to 
see in a college newspaper. 
Perhaps if The Tartan exhibited 
a bit more professionalism, it 
would attract a better caliber of
writers.
Kip Kienstrar

---------------------------------------------------

Letters:
Dean Modell gives his 
answer to H&SS faults
Editor:
Myles Greenbergs interesting Opinion 
column in The Tartan of October 29 has 
, caught my attention. I think it deserves both 
serious thought and an attempt at an initial 
answer, though even I find it a little hard 
to reconcile the opinions expressed with the 
facts in the case. Editorial comment voices 
a sense of discomfort  and that is a good 
thing, when discomfort is feltbut it usually 
does not provide a forum for the detailed ex
change of ideas and information. If my 
response seems at all obtuse to Mr. 
Greenberg or others present at the Student 
Senate meeting, consider that I have had no 
further information than Mr. Greenbergs 
article about the discussion at the Senate 
meeting at which there was vocal criticism 
of the quality and quantitiy of H&SS courses 
as well as the lack of respect accorded the 
H&SS college within the CMU community. 
Both the Associate Deans and I keep weekopen office hours at which 
N^^rergradutates are more than welcome, 
i^ike mechanisms are available in the various 
academic departments in the College.
The concerns cited in Mr. Greenbergs 
opinion focus upon the courses and cur
riculum. Graduate instructors teaching 
courses seems to be a particular irritant to 
him; a lack of variety and frequency of 
courses seems to be another. The lack of
respect that Mr. Greenberg reports that 
some detect seems, from his account, to be 
related to these two problems, graduate stu
dent instructors apparently indicating to 
some at the Student Senate meeting that the 
College is denied budget to hire professors 
by the Central Administration.
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences enrolls approximately the same 
number of undergraduate students as do the 
other undergraduate colleges at the Univer
sity, and employs approximately the same 
number of regular faculty members. In 
regard to quality of courses, measured 
however one might, and to seriousness and 
imaginativeness of curriculum, I dont im
agine that H&SS would suffer by comparison 
with the other colleges at CMU. Certainly, 
student evaluations of H&SS courses reflect 
widespread satisfaction without offerings.
Nor do I imagine that it would suffer by 
comparison in these regards with any liberal 
arts college at any university in the country. 
In regard to variety of courses, it surely 
would. By choice, this university remains 
small, with generally happy outcomes, in
cluding, I think, instructional outcomes. By 
choice, the College has designed a core cur
riculum that exposes students to similar 
rather than greatly varied offerings before 
they enter their majors. The education that 
H&SS offers is distinctive (and nationally 
regarded because of it), and the elements of 
that distinctiveness are not the product of 
any lack of attention, appreciation, or 
budget from the Central Administration. 
Rather, it is the result of methodical plann
ing which has become a paradym for other 
institutions.
There are other models of undergraduate
education that no doubt are excellent in 
their own ways. H&SS is neither a typical 
arts and sciences college at a great research 
university, nor is it a typical small liberal arts 
college. It shares some virtures with both of 
these, and has several unique to itself. (In 
short, we feel no need to blindly follow the 
model of Ivy League schools but to lead 
in innovative education that is responsive to 
our unique institution.) Among them is a 
sense on the part of the faculty of full par
ticipation and intellectual interchange with 
all the branches of a vigorous, challenging, 
interdisciplinary university that nevertheless 
cares about both curriculum and teaching.
While these views are on the level of 
generalities, undoubtedly the meeting of the 
Student Senate surfaced some specific obser
vations, and because we are only good, not 
perfect there may be others besides. From 
my perspective, learning these views would 
give me the chance to begin working to bet
ter what we offer to students and (as a result) 
continue in our liberal contributions to our 
university.
John Modell 
Acting Dean, H&SS
Editors Note: It was noted that Myles 
Greenberg was a freshman in H&SS. Mr. 
Greenberg is in CIT.
It is necessary to be 
exposed to other views
Editor:
In response to your feature article 
Homosexuality on Campus: Trendy or True
that claimed ambivalence among students 
toward homosexuality, I think it necessary 
that we all be exposed to a different point 
of view of homosexuality. One prominent 
and long standing theory backed by 
psychoanalytic perspective (related to Freu
dian Theory) argues that homosexuality is 
a severe psychosexual defect that is due to 
underdevelopment occurring in early to 
middle childhood. In a nutshell, we all go 
through a homosexual period in our 
development, and if we are normal, we 
outgrow it. So it is not really a matter of 
choice, as the article implied but rather 
a psychosexual illness. This illness, which 
may not be harmful in and of itself, is often 
manifested into other mental problems that 
lead so many homosexuals to seek treatment 
from mental health professionals. It should 
also be noted that studies by Kinsey and 
others conclude that the percentage of 
homosexuals in our society has not chang
ed since 1900. C. Casamassima led us to 
believe that trends such as: fathers are rear
ing children, greater percentage of women 
in the work force, boys and girls are ex
posed to play situations of different sex 
roles, and girls are taking more math and 
science courses, etc., all contribute to a rise 
in homosexuality. This is ludicrous. The 
reality that homosexuals are fighting for 
more rights may simply be an artifact of 
other successful civil rights movements. 
There has been no real change in what 
homosexuality is or why it occurs in our 
society.
But the argument does not end with the 
idea that homosexuality is a mental pro
blem! Let us remember that the first and 
continued on page 25
Blind see more than some who can see well
JSr
by Jim Miller
Im sure you are familiar with the ancient 
fable about the elephant and the blindmen. 
But just to be sure let me refresh your 
memory. It seems that years ago in the Far 
East a band of blindmen were journeying 
along a dusty road when they 
iSP suddenly encountered an 
elephant.
One blindman bumped into 
the elephants leg and declared to his com
panions, We must have entered a forest for 
I have just walked into the largest tree trunk 
I have ever encountered.
I dont know if we are in a forest, said 
another who had run into the elephants 
side, but we are about to pass under a very 
low bridge.
Not so, claimed a third blindman who 
had brushed against the elephants tail. We 
must be in a town bazaar, standing at the 
hemp merchants stall, for surely I have in 
mv hands here a sample of his rope.
A bazaar it truly is, agreed a fourth who 
had encountered one of the elephants tusks, 
but without doubt we are at the armorers 
booth for I have just backed into one of his 
spears.
You are both wrong, asserted the fifth 
blind man. It is at neither the hemp mer
chants nor the armorers stalls that we stand, 
but at the seller of fans. This blindman, you 
see, had come in contact with the elephants 
ear.
Suddenly, there was a shriek and a sixth 
blindman cried out, Not at a bazaar at all. 
We must still be in the deepest forest for a 
great snake just tried to coil itself about me. 
So much for the elephants trunk.
Here most of the ancient manuscripts end 
with some moral about how each of us views 
reality from a particular perspective and no 
one sees the real world as simply as it is. But 
while rummaging through a used book shop 
I some years ago I came across a parchment 
I of great antiquity which contains the 
I original ending of this tale.
I It seems that the blindmen, after thier enIcounter with the elephant, sat down in the 
[middle of the road in a circle facing away
from each other and formed a university. 
They recruited passersby to enter their 
distinctive schools (the School of Trunks, the 
School of Low Bridges, etc.) and each new 
student took his or her place sitting at the 
end of the line.
From among the masters and occasional
ly from among the disciples of highest rank, 
keepers were chosen to provide sustenance 
for the circle of masters with their lines of 
disciples and to maintain the order of the 
circle. Over the years new masters were add
ed to the circle as new elephants were en
countered. Each new addition challenged the 
ability of the keepers to creatively sustain the 
university.
Now according to this parchment, as best 
I could decipher it, one of the blindmen, a 
certain Kar-Nagy Tek by name, had a vision. 
In it he saw four tree trunks, a low bridge, 
a strand of rope, two fans, a couple of spears 
and a snake configured together to form a 
single awesome creature.
Fellow blind men, he exclaimed, 
perhaps we are too hasty in assuming that 
our individual experiences are the keys to the 
meaning of the universe. Perhaps, if we at
tend to one anothers experience we will gain 
insights into the nature of things which are 
inaccessible from our individual vantage 
points alone. Perhaps, also we may be able 
to transform what we learn through such in
sight into useful magic for the community 
about us.
His colleagues after some deliberation 
concluded that Master Teks words were fill
ed with wisdom. Some, however, were con
cerned that the very act of considering the 
views of their neighbors in the circle might 
dilute the comparative advantage of thier 
own insight upon which they had build a 
pinnacle of excellence. This, in turn, might 
jeopardize not only their ability to draw pay
ing students but also alms from the great 
princes of commerce and the warlords of the 
land.
Still, the words of Master Tek were engaved upon a stone of the finest marble, plac
ed in the hallowed archives and as the KarNagy Plan was revered among generation
after generation of masters. Yet, strangely, 
students seldom heard of this treasure of an
cient wisdom. And only rarely were the 
masters, themselves, able to genuinely follow 
its precepts and appropriate one anothers 
experience.
Then in the latter days there arose from 
among the masters and the keepers a few 
who were drawn anew to the vision of KarNagy Tek. With modest cooperation of what 
had become a great circle of masters, these 
few began to fashion a ritual celebration of 
Kar-Nagys vision which they called the 
Kor.
It required that the newest disciples of all 
the masters became proficient in such 
esoteric practices as expressive Sanskrit com
position and abacus magic. Plans were 
underway to have the disciples of different 
masters gather together to share their 
distinctive experiences of elephants with an 
eye toward discovering how elephants, more 
broadly conceived, could enhance the life of 
humankind.
Here the manuscript ends. There is no 
clue as to how this revival of the vision of 
Kar-Nagy Tek finallyworked out. Perhaps in 
some remote part of the world the struggle 
to sustain that vision continues to this day.
And a struggle it is: against the 
disciplinary self-interest of individual
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
masters, against the academic political in
terests of particular schools, against the nar
row career focus of the disciples, against a 
broader community which would be 
satisfied with trees and bridges and rope and 
fans and snakes and even spears when what 
they need are elephants.
Whatever the status of the struggle, we 
can but wish those with the vision of KarNagy Tek well. For with their success comes 
a better life for us all.
Jim Miller is a staff person for United Cam
pus Ministries of Pittsburgh, an ecumenical 
campus ministry representing seven Protes
tant denominations. He is a Presbyterian 
minister and a member of the CMU Cam
pus Ministry Council.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor..........Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor......................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ... Anthony Datri
Features Editor.....Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor...........Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor.......Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor.............Michele Keane
Art Manager................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager...................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
ACME Director .............Vi jay Reddy
Asst. Art Manager.........Mark Kissner
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: 
Skibo 10S, Student Activities, CamegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 152IS. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
ciaee's
~ice creamery
TAKE A BREAK FROM DORM FOOD!
Go to PACES
Now serving dinner 5-9 p.m. 
Spaghetti and other specials 
$3.49 with roll and butter
Coupon $i.oo off Dinner
Expires Nov. 22, 1985
PACES ALSO HAS HOMEMADE CONES
11:30 - 11:00 Sun-Th 
11:30 - 12:00 Fri-Sat
420 S. Craig St. 
(at Forbes)
683-2780
SiyDENI_SENATE_FyNDING_AND_REOGNITIQN_OmiTIEE 
FALL_ 1985_REP0RT_T0_ALL_ACT IV I^T IESFEEPAYINGSTUDENTS
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy, I, Tamal 
Mukher jee, respectfully submit the summary of subsidy allocations 
that the Funding and Recognition Committee will recommend to the 
Student Senate at 7.00 pm on Tuesday November 12, 1985, at the
Wherrett Room in Skibo. Representatives of all the Organizations 
listed below are required to be present at the meeting.
QL9#Dization
Chinese Student Organization
Carnegie Involment Association
CMU Lacrosse Club
CMU Macintosh Users' Group
CMU Robotics Club
CMU Shotokan Karate Club
Computer Club
Forbes Gallery
The Fringe
Mayur
Oakland Review 
Rugby Club 
Scotch N Soda 
Sp i r i t
Spring Carnival
Sweepstakes
Ultimate Frisbee Club
TOTAL
Subsidyi***
$9^5
*325
3290
2273
17^5
195
2007
7000
2258
5^0
1695
133^
2063
3922
8870
5550
650
?8662
All Activities Fee paying students are invited to come to the 
meeting and participate in the allocation process. I would l.ike to 
take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the members of 
the Funding and Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, 
for all the work they have done in making this a succesful semester 
for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJEE.
co-Chair, Funding and Recognition Committee.
*

---------------------------------------------------

More letters...
continued from page 23
most crucial function of any living organism 
is reproduction. Homosexuality precludes 
reproduction and thus confronts nature 
head-on. Our superior intelligence and 
creativity as humans do not give us the right 
to edit what nature has in store for us. In 
the strictest terms of evolution, the nurtur
ing of homosexuality encapsulates the ex
tinction of our species. (I cant see this ever 
happening, but it is interesting to interpret 
sexual variation in this light.)
Please do not assume that I or anybody 
else who holds my point of view will 
discriminate on the basis of sexual 
preference. However, I definitely think it is 
advisable to seek treatment for homosexuali
ty, just as it is advisable for drug and alcohol 
abusers to seek treatment for their problem. 
Finally, before anybody gets too angry, keep 
in mind that my arguments represent only 
one school of thought about homosexuali
ty. Other theories that differ with what I 
have presented include cognitive theory, 
learning theory, and the community 
perspective.
Sincerely 
Bruce Fisch 
Senior MEMS/Pre-Med
Appreciative yet 
offended by views
Editor:
After years of silence, homosexuality is 
suddenly becoming an issue at CMU. Last 
week, two Tartan articles appeared, one 
about homosexuality and one about AIDS; 
also, some individual has been trying to 
form a much-needed gay and lesbian
alliance on campus. I would like to respond 
to these recent developments and the issue 
of gay rights in general.
While I appreciate Christy Casamassima 
attempt at approaching the question sym
pathetically, I am offeneded by many of the 
assumptions underlying her article. She 
privileges the theory that homosexuality is 
due to, and increasing because of, nontraditional families and blurring sex roles. 
First, androgeny and homosexuality have 
nothing to do with each other. Homosexuals 
are as diverse as the straight population in 
terms of personality and gender identifica
tion. Flaming (her word) gay men and 
butch lesbians are the most obvious 
segmentthey are not in the majority. Se
cond, she makes a connection between nontraditional families and homosexuality. 
Homosexuals appear in all kinds of families, 
and, while the incidence of non-traditional 
families is increasing, the percentage of 
homosexuals has not. There seems to be 
more gays today  this is due to the increas
ingly more vocal gay rights movement. Peo
ple dont become gay because its chic: 
homosexuals do not choose their sexuality 
any more than do heterosexuals. The pro
blems and prejudices that confront gays in 
our society are more than sufficient to 
discourage trendfollowers from becom
ing gay.
Casamassima and the straight students 
she interviewed do not approve of gays 
flaunting their sexuality. If gays feel a 
need to flaunt their sexual preference, it 
is because for years we have been forced to 
be silent, unable to talk about it quietly, let 
alone flaunt it. Straights may see no 
reason why they should be forced to be ex
posed to the issue of homosexuality  I
would respond why should we be forced to 
witness heterosexuality? Because every per
son who is a citizen of the U.S. has the right 
to express their individuality, regardless of 
anothers sensibilities. Those of you who are 
straight: imagine if the majority of people 
in our society were gay, and you could not 
talk about your desire for the opposite sex, 
for fear of being ostracized by your family 
and friends. Homosexuals are constantly 
discriminated against, socially and legally. 
If my landlord finds out Im gay, I can be 
kicked out of my apartment, with no legal 
recourse. I could be fired from my job, solely 
because of my sexual preference. Now that
I have written this letter, CMU could expel 
me and I would be powerless under the
law to take any action.
It is essential for homosexuals, their 
friends, and their relatives, to speak out, to 
show those with prejudices that gays are a 
valid part of our society. It is important to 
realize that we are not our sexuality, which 
is only a small part of ourselves. We are not 
chic; we are not sick. We are human beings, 
nothing more and nothing less, and we
deserve to be treated as such.Carl Weichert
English 87
Unitedway
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care
SCHOLARSHIP
Applications are now available for Delta Delta Delta Service Pro
jects Scholarships. At CMU one 1986 award of $200.00 will be 
made to a full-time undergraduate woman. The recipient of this 
award is automatically eligible for one of the National Zoe Gore 
Perrin awards of SIOOO, with no additional applications or 
procedures.
Academic record, contribution to campus or community life, pro
mise of service in the major field and financial need are among 
the criteria considered.
Application forms are available from the Director of Financial Aid, 
Dean of Students, or the Philanthropy Chairman of the campus 
Tri Delta chapter. Completed applications must be returned on 
or before December l, 1985.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a total of over si,338,000 
to 5,930 deserving students. In 1985, approximately 75% of the 
scholarships were awarded to students who were not members 
of Tri Delta.
Delta Delta Delta Philanthropy chairman is Darla Messick, X5962.
PICKUP HUGE DISCOUNTS on 
fine ART SUPPLIES!!!
inryV'r* -OUT LOFT
c/vpy
15/off
Winsor Newton Watercolor
Rembrandt Pastels
All Art Books 20 / off
Aluminum Easels 
Conte Pastels 
Crum Hyplar Acrylic
30/off
Liquitex Acrylic 
Stretcher Strips
Wooden Easels 40 / Qff
Frederix Canvas 
Liquitex Oil Color 
Prismacolor Pencils 
Robt Simmons Brushes
50/ off
Nu Pastels 
Liquitex Watercolor
323 Blvd of the Allies. Pittsburgh
281-2133
Monday - Friday 8 45 to 5 30 Saturday 9 30 to 5 30
UNISOFT CORPORATION
UniSoft Systems of Berkeley, California will be on campus 
Nov. 7 & 8, 1985 and will be recruiting for the following:
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS: Responsible for porting UNIX 
operating system and utilities to various leading-edge hard
ware architecture. Must be knowledgable in C UNIX AND 
KERNEL.
PROGRAMMERS: At least two years with the C programm
ing language and the UNIX programming environment. Must 
be knowledgeable in C and UNIX.
PRODUCT ENGINEERS: Responsible for technical aspects 
of third-party software running under UniPlus operating 
systems. Must have strong compiler backround with 
knowledge of C, Fortran, Pascal, Basic and COBOL. UNIX 
experience is a must.
TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALISTS: Primary interface to 
UniSoft OEMs. Researching OEM questions, investigating 
third-party product problems, offer technical in-house support, 
special projects, distribution.. Must be knowledgeable in C 
and UNIX.
Unisoft offers compensation and benefits in a stimulating and 
challenging environment. If you feel qualified to be on our 
team, please see us on campus Nov. 7&8,1985, in the Career 
Services and Placement. Or send your resume to the below 
address.
Sharon Hill 
UniSoft Corporation 
739 Allston Way 
Berkeley, Ca 94710 
ucbvax!unisoft!sharon
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

---------------------------------------------------

Friday November 8th 
Skibo Ballroom 
9PM-1AM
Free Refreshments _________
Student 
Donuiton' 
Council
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
GreatStyies Startat
HPcniTwns
NO
APPOINTMENT
NECESSARY
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
COLORPERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
> ;  .  - * '  /- 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments
AB
Coffeehouse & Lectures 
presents
4th Annual
AJRBANDCompetiton
Saturday 
November 9 
8:00 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Fu led by Activities Fee
with Emcee
Scott Jones

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
hort Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
nvited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
tory Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
Jniversity. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
jrize and publication in Toyon 86, Humboldts 
iterary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
inpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
Jouble-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
anuscript should be sent with the authors 
me, address and title of the story, typed on a 
over sheet. Writers should also include two selfddressed, stamped envelopes for notification of 
eipt of manuscript and announcement of winers and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
e turned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
arver Short Story Contest is Charles Baxter, 
uthor and recipient of a National Endowment 
:or the Arts (NEA) Grant and a Guggenheim 
ellowship. The entry deadline is December 1, 
985. Entry fee is $5 payable to the Raymond 
;arver Short Story Contest. All entries should be 
ailed to Carver Contest, c/o Department of 
glish, Humboldt State University, Areata, CA 
5521. For more information call (707) 826-S758.
in Evening with Windham Hill, featuring Liz 
Story, Michael Hedges, Darol Anger and Mike 
larshall. Presented by ABConcerts and partially 
Funded by student activities fees. Thursday, 
November 14, Carnegie Music Hall, 7:30 pm. 
Admission $5 for students with valid CMU ID.
larnegie-Mellon Drama Department Needs
ou! Usher twice and you can see the play free, 
he plays are Odon Von Horvaths Tales from 
he Vienna Woods on November 
7,8,9,20,21,22,23 and George Feydeaus One 
Iids on November 13,14,15,16 and December 
1,5,6,7. For more information call 578-2407.
Auditions. Talent scouts from Bush Gardens will 
be conducting its annual search for: singers, 
dancers, musicians, actors, variety artists, 
costumers, technicians, and stage managers. 
Audition performers should be at least 18 years 
of age and be available for full-time seasonal 
employment. Auditions are conducted on a firstcome, first-served basis. Audition presentations 
should be limited to 3 minutes, but performers 
should be prepared to present additional material 
upon request. Call-back auditions, required for 
some shows, will be held immediately following 
the scheduled audition. Auditions will be held 
on Saturday, November 16, from 12 pm to 5 pm, 
and on Sunday, November 17, from 12 pm to
5 pm at the Point Park College, Lawrence Hall. 
For more information call 800-253-3302.
Classifieds
STUDENT ACTIVISTS Do you have political 
savvy? Are you concerned with the issues that af
fect the quality of life? Get involved with the 
CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT, the Na
tional Citizens lobby working on laxic Waste and 
Water Quality. EOE. Call now! 765-3053.
PARTY TIME FOR BIRTHDAYS, WED
.DINGS, LUAUS, X-MAS PARTIES, NEW 
YEARS PARTIES AND MUCH MUCH MORE. 
YES, WE EVEN HAVE EYEGLASSES FOR 
YOUR HAMSTER AND
KNUCKLEMAN. . . PA PERM ART, 
MOREWOOD AVE. AND BAUM BLVD. 
681-8900. ITS A NICE WALK FROM CAMPUS. 
DECORATIONS, INVITATIONS, NOVELTIES 
AND FUN!
EXPERIENCED Babysitter needed for infant. 
Flexible hours. Anytime: day, night, or weekends. 
Munchies and rides provided. Call 521-7533.
ATTENTION FOREIGN STUDENTS!
Enrich your American Experience by par
ticipating in a program of International Mutual 
Education, conducted by the McKeesport Cam
pus of The Pennsylvania State University and 
sponsored by NAFSA. Visit classrooms in Elemen
tary and Secondary schools to talk about your 
home country. Your travel expenses will be paid. 
You may also receive a small honorarium. If in
terested, please call 462-6401 ext. 204 or write 
to: IME Project, The Pennsylvania State Univer
sity, McKeesport CampusContinuing Educa
tion, McKeesport, PA.15132.
Needed: Teachers for Jewish religious schools!
Subject: Hebrew language, religion, history, 
customs and ceremonies, music, dance, drama, 
etc. For further information call: Dr. Ronald A. 
Brauner, Director, The Hebrew Institute, 
521-1100.
SQ. HILL1-2 BR Apt., compl kitchen, w/w, 
we pay heat, close to CMU and public transp., 
available immed., for more info call 421-4307.
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES: WE HAVE 
EVERYTHING FOR YOUR PARTY AT 
PAPERMART. . .OVER 10,000 SQUARE FEET 
OF FUN IN OUR PARTY SUPERMARKET. 
BAUM BLVD. AT MOREWOOD AVE.
681-8900.. STROLL DOWN MOREWOOD 
TO A WORLD OF FUN.
ATTENTION! Free hair permanent. Given by 
Jr. Designer as part of a design project. Needs to 
be given within the next few weeks. Only one 
available. Call 578-5962 for more information.
Ruths Pathway for the Contemporary 
WomanBible Study on Crisis & Opportunity. 
Wed. in Nov. 12, 12:30pm, Doherty Hall 2122. 
Run by Lutheran Campus Minisrty.
Professional CARICATURES 9x12 of yourself 
or friends! Become your wildest fantasy! (ex. 
astronaut, superhero.) $4.00 b/w, $5.00 color. 
Send photo and check or cash to: Chris Liotta, 
Box 1375, 1060 Morewood Ave. Money back if not 
satisfied. Photo and finished art delivered im
mediately. For further info call 578-4420.
Word Processing/Typing Services. Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon/Fri $1 per page.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CONTACT HAL 
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 PM.
$10-$S60 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelopes: Success, POBox 470CEG, Woodstock. 
IL 60098.
LOST: 1 RED WALLET with blue trim and a 
velcro fastener. I lost it around the comer of 
Morewood and Forbes. There is a $25 reward. If 
found please call Ed at 681-1781 or 682-9412.
Miscellaneous
President to have open office hours for 
students. Richard M. Cyert will have open of
fice hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, 
in his office, 602 Warner Hall on Friday, 
November 8 and Monday, December 2. Students 
who wish to meet with the president should 
telephone his secretary, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
Reminder. Registration is on Wednesday, 
November 13 and Thursday, November 14.
Events
5
Tuesday
Movies
Paris, Texas, starring Harry Dean 
Stanton, Nastassia Kinski. A loner, distraught 
ver the -breakup of his marriage four years 
earlier, heads for Texas to find his wife. Rated 
R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admission 
.95.
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercises. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm.
Clubs
Pittsburgh Go Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room,
7 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Ostinato Rigore: The Red Cross Project,
presented by Pierre Zoelly, visiting Andrew 
Mellon Professor at CMU. Sponsored by the 
Department of Architecture. Wean Hall 7500,
8 pm.
Community Events
Weight Watchers, of Greater Pittsburgh, Inc., 
ls offering an all new weight-loss program special
ly designed to meet the needs of working people. 
With sufficient interest, this program will be of
fered right here at CMU. The Weight Watchers 
program will run once-a-week for eight weeks, 
'and will cost $42. If you are interested in par
ticipating in the program call Shirley Farinella 
at x6685, and let her know whether you prefer 
to meet during lunch hour or immediately after 
work.
Families in Transition. A workshop for students 
whose parents are separated or divorced. 
Presented by the Counseling Center. From 3:30 
pm to 5 pm. For information and registration, 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 10 for details ~
6
Wednesday
Movies
World Music Cultures and African Music,
presented by S. Kwabena Nketia, a pioneer and 
leading authority in African ethnomusicology. 
An Andrew Mellon Professor of Music, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. College of Fine Arts Alumni 
Concert Hall, 6 pm to 9 pm.
_ .Community Eyents
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 10 for details.
Fanny and Alexander, starring 
Gunn Wallgren, Jarl Kulle, Ewa Froling, Erland 
Josephson. An Oscar winning film about a family 
that meets on Christmas Day 1907 and of their 
many emotional victories and defeats. Rated R. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, by Oden Von 
Horvath. Presented by the Drama Department. 
Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admission $7, 
faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5.
Recreation
La Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome. ..
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 gm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Blacks Managing in a Technical Environment,
presented by Ms. Cheryl Matthews, B.S./M.S. 
Chemical Engineering, Air Products Co., Allen
town, PA. A Camegie-Mellon Action Program 
(CMAP) Development Series. CMAP Complex,
6 pm.
7
Thursday
Movies
The Fly, starring Vincent Price, 
A1 Hedison, Patricia Owens, Herbert Marshall. 
A classic science fiction tale about an eccentric 
scientist who turns himself into a fly. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Some Like it Hot. Doherty Hall. 6 pm, 8:30 pm,
11 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, by Oden Von 
Horvath. Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admis
sion $7, faculty $6, students and senior citizens 
$5.
Music
Convocation: Renaissance City Woodwind
Quintet. College of Fine Arts Alumni Concert 
Hall, 12:30 pm.
Dance
Les Noces / Concerto Barocco / The River. See
Saturday, November 9 for more information.
1 - Sports
Womens Volleyball home game against Grove 
City at 1 pm.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Investment Club. Learn how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12,
8 pm. Beginners welcome.
Lectures
Waiting: Rhetoric, Racism and the Whites of 
South Africa, presented by Vincent Crapanzano, 
Department of Anthropology and Comparative 
Literature from Queens College, New York. 
Sponsored by The College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences Distinguished Lecture Series. 
Adamson Wing, 3:30 pm.
Community Events
Study Smarter. Learn how to study more effec
tively with a variety of techniques. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
Managing Stress. Learn how to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5 pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 10 for detailss
8
Friday
Movies
The Brother from Another 
Planet, starring Joe Morton. Comedy about a 
black extraterrestrial who lands in Harlem where 
everyone assumes hes just a plain earthling. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
SKIBO 40A 578 2921
T
Go home without a hass/a

---------------------------------------------------

TOP ENGINEERING AND 
TECHNICAL GRADUATES
Tfe Stars Are Out All Qsu ATBI/I5CH GARDENS
Americas European theme park in 
Williamsburg, Va. is conducting auditions for 
over 200 singers, dancers musicians, variety ar
tists, actors, technicians, stage managers, and supervisors. You could be part of the cluster of 
stars at Busch Gardens. So get your act 
together and come shine at our 1986 
Auditions!!!!
Audition Date:
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15,
12-5 p.m.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16,
12-5 p.m.
Point Park College
Lawrence Hall
plegcK
mCohnwg
WE HAVE A LOT IN COMMON
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
November 15,1985
The Killing Fields. Doherty Hall, 6 pm, 8:30 
pm, 11 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, Oden Von Hor
vath. Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admission 
J7, faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5. 
Dance
Les Noces / Concerto Barocco / The River. See
Saturday, November 9 for more information.
Recreation
Video Dance. Funded by the SDC. Skibo 
Ballroom, 9 pm.
Lectures
The Diaghilev Tradition, Les Noces, presented 
by Akram Midani, Dean of the College of Fine 
Arts, CMU.
Transfer Between Isomorphic Tasks in Algebra 
and Physics presented by Dr. Miriam Bassok 
from the University of Pittsburgh. Sponsored by 
the Department of Psychology Colloquium Series. 
Baker Halls Adamson Wing, 4 pm.
Community Events
President to have Open Office Hours for 
Students. Richard M. Cyert will have open of
Innovation, challenge, openness: that's Intel. Just the kind of environment you 
need to make the most of your hard-earned degree. Consider some of our 
most important firsts: Random Access Memory (RAM), Erasable Programmable 
Read-Only Memory (EPROM), the first microprocessor, the first single-board 
computer, the first microcomputer development system and the first million-bit 
bubble memory. Ours is the kind of environment where you can become a 
moving force behind the shape of future technology. If you're looking for the 
kind of career that gives you almost immediate opportunities for success, look 
to Intel... youll find we have a lot in common.
If you are unahle to meet with us, please contact Intel College Relations at the 
location of your choice:
Arizona: 5000 West Williams Field Road, Chandler, AZ 85224 
California: Santa Clara2730 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051 
CaliforniaSacramento/Folsom151 Blue Ravine Road, Folsom, CA 95630 
New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road, Rio Rancho. NM 87124 
Oregon: 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97124 
Field Sales/Marketing: 3200 Lakeside Drive. Santa Clara, CA 97051
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
fice hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, 
in his office, 602 Warner Hall. Students who wish 
to meet with the president should telephone his 
secretary, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Les Noces / Concerto Barocco / The River. Les 
Noces is about a Russian peasant wedding. 
Choreographed by Bronislava Nijinska, sister of 
the legendary Nijinsky. It features the Bach 
Choir. Concerto Barocco, an abstract Balanchine 
ballet, mirrors the rhythms, sequences, inten
sities, emotional hues and forms of the Bach 
score. The River, Alvin Aileys choreography 
combines sensually with the elements of Duke Ell
ingtons original score. Presented by the Pitt
sburgh Ballet Theater, Heinz Hall, 8 pm. For 
more information call 281-5000.
Recreation
4th Annual Air Band Competition, hosted by 
Scott Jones. Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm.
10
Sunday
Movies
The Picture of Dorian Gray, 
starring Hurd Hatfield, George Sanders, Donna 
Reed. A version of Oscar Wildes story about a 
man who never seems to get older, while a pain
ting of himself in the attic ages. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Meatballs. Doherty Hall, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm,
12 pm. Admission $1.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counseling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E 
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus Pre, I, II, III 
in Porter Hall 126 A; Physics in Porter Hall 126 
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as 
a second language in Baker Hall 135 B; 
Economics in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to 
Computing in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Ac
counting in Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing 
Problems in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm to 10 pm.
Monday
Movies
Pandoras Box, starring Louise 
Brooks, Fritz Kortner, Francis Lederer, Carl 
Goetz. Brooks greatest role as Lulu, the vamp, 
who destroys everyone she meets. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
9 Saturday
Movies
Stop Making Sense, directed by 
Jonathan Demme. A concert film featuring The 
Talking Heads. There are 16 songs including 
Burning Down the House'. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
TBA This semesters TBA film is Cafe Flesh. 
Doherty Hall, 6 pm, 7:30 pm, 9 pm, 10:30 pm, 
12 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, Oden Von Hor
vath. Kresge Theatre, 2 pm. General admission 
$7, faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5. 
DanceThe First Dance Medicine Symposium. Design
ed for physicians, health professionals, dance in
structors, and dancers who are interested in the 
basic medical needs for dancing as well as the 
prevention and treatment of injuries. Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre, 7:30 am to 10:30 pm.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible b\ bus from C\llT
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland MasterCard. Visa accepted
682-0616 < a,n,men,
CHCTOia/CABLe?
tiueidupadg3Canytime 12:00 to 2:00 in Salads Plus EVERYONE WELCOME
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pm to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/ Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
Care Packages by Student Treats
2 Sizes:
A) Standard one pound fresh baked 
chocolate chip, oatmeal, or raisin cookies 
2 rich moist double-chocolate brownies
2 succulent seasonal fruits 
cost: $9.00
B) Standard one pound cookies
3 brownies
1/2 pound roasted cashews 
3 pieces of fruit 
cost: $12.00
Deadline for orders is November 20th 
Deliveries during the week prior to exams 
Orders will be sent to parents
Any questions contact SDC at x2114
6m
Student
Dormitory
Council
ATTENTION
Artists and Craftspersons
On December third, fourth and fifth, 
an art sale will be held in Skibo.
If you would like to sell your goods 
sign up at the information Desk 
Monday through Friday, 9am to 5pm.
Sponsored by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Zurk
I TELL'TA.THIS FOOD IS THE PITS. 
AMD ALL m RiSS CLASSES ARE 
JUST TESTS ON TOP OF TESTS 
OU TOP OF TESTS.
OH YEAH. WELL I'VE COTA 
THOUSAND LINES TO MEMORIZE, 
AND THIS Pit SLOP DOES 
NARIX TUINGiTO MY
VOCAL CHORDS.
Nollem Eigenrac
I DON'T KNOVl.I THINK THE 
FOOD IS TERRIFIC. AND W 
CLASSES HAVE BEEN REALtf 
FUN...
by Nabil Liumang
OH,ZURK.
LO
by Mike McHugh 8- Co.
DftV, A LETTER Y^\V)ES> 
jMt CftSHl<fRs OPF\CE.
WA/OGfDue R3RS?*\KX* 
SerAfSTSZ - #,*2.36HfM~ 
...Tb/l5 IS f\ CO^ptfT^K PRINTOUT 
Z UOUD<fR 7?.........
A SHO^T \OW\L5
AHPi .'''KiGLLfW Sl^flOKAC 
S?R\UG) SrrAST^R 
DM<f .$GO.OC*
I
The Top Floorby M

---------------------------------------------------

November 5, 1985The TartanPage 31
Murray the Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
AS MURRAY 3TEP5 
INTO THE 
SPOTLIGHT, V" 
THE CR6Wt> J
DILHuntRi
Th CNOr^
EDDIE VAN HAIEN VvL ( 
WHO CAME TO THE 5H0W, 
NOW LEAVES, A3EALOU5 
bBr aLwlvlbuDr wbB AAe
0/Oj OOPS! I FORGOT 
eart BOBE.Y HATE5 
\v CLAW MARKS 
R GM HIS GUITAR
MURRAY
PUT
DOUJM
C WHAT I REALLY 
C HATE IS THE 
i> FACT THAT 
4^ MURRAV CAN 
|R PLAY BETTER 
nTHAN ME'GUITAR.
BLOOM COUNTY
nS hSfw iTniN swCfwMUfTws /NO MORC LONELY STOCKBROKERS / THIS BOY HRS mH PROMOTEP: ___
WOOeY H/T7H r&?SOMt.5SnpUfy Uny cypUfyio a urne swfTScsJOURNALISM.'
KMsm.iaby Kurt ShawInkspots
oSSynwss inSpsl rveHAP JUST ABOUT EN0I/6H OF THOSEooFY, white, (jfrexTheeHostHaggURBAN Types..
Personals
yuppies... stNue frmrrs..CABBAbE PATCH TWNbS.. REPUBLICANISM... /WB
ice cream ...all ms country m. ooop crazes u grow/no Him been pone suspicious ofBY "TIME''ANP MEPtA-MANU-gnwpspwwigW mUCMcywyMGwfw.s .MfwnysWWNOTHING ^ \
im/^eT
1W5CMP
&4Tmip.f
^ v&t
MHO...HELP ME,MILO ...TOMORROW 'S PteE IS PUS ANPI HAVEN'T POTTEP A TRENP _a YET...
(XMtNb SUSPt...f Rowm...
HEEL
SO. HOW'S THAToc Huntc
COM IN' 7
wen 6top?THAT'S PEEEAL 
600P'OH Fine, YOUR EPTWRSHIP' 
JUST ^INIi' 
FINS'FINE' FINE.'FINE' (
NINESECONPS.
YES. THE WIRE SERVICES PTCKEP IT UP. THEM YHE WAClstmerumm. CSAwiwy me .wCSnShTCs Sm eterne: .csUTOW SPlASHEP IT (HER THEIR WHOLE FRDHTPME ANP 'TIME' HUS 'THE NEU EMOb'ON THIS WEEK'S COVER. PRYtP HARTMAN WUBEHieMEMN A BOWL Of CMMmONlf 'J EbNOO TOMORROW tjJXT MORNM
m MISTER LIFESTYLES 
w... remember wTartnSf piece
fH PIP FOR Oi
f*ST WEEK'S ISA,
\EPmON * CNERt
THEOS EONOO 
ASSOCIATION SENT YOU 
THIS CHECK FOR FNE 6*ANP 
m PEEP APPRECIATION.
I /ate/
THIS WAS A 
RACKET/
Student
Dormitory
Council
OMER WENPEU JONES 
XHR OPINION PLEASE : 
IM CONStPERM A 
UTTIE COSMETIC SURERY... PO YOU THINK 
'x I M JUST BEtN 
V ] TOO INSECURE *
MEU,TCERTAMy MP HOW POHoffHEFMPs wsorrvseA MOP. MS 60MA 
REPUTABLE OAOUr
sxbeoN. po/Nfr
vmr/
.NSc.fw bermi A FANNY LIFT' NO NO.. I A NOSEI joe.
WHAPPYA
^N THINK 7
WELL. LET Me 
JUST SAY THIS 
ABOUT THAT...
JUST THE THOUbHT OF THAT NOBLE IT SRNOZ UNPER SOUNPSTHE KNIFE MAKES PRETTYMI FEST ITCH. PARS
I RISK/
I Tom...
J0,f YOUR 
fWbtRS PO 1HE WALKIN ..
FIRSTLY,
tnWHATis mm
WITH MY 
FANNY r

---------------------------------------------------

One of the hardest things 
about college Is learning how
to pay for it3 f
May we help you?
Dollar Bank knows that paying for an education can be an education in itself. Thats why we offer a number of low-cost loans designed with your borrowing requirements in mind. If you think you'll need money for the winter term, nows the time to look into one of these Dollar Bank loans.
Low 8 % PHEAA Loans  This guaranteed student loan helps cover the cost of any approved college, trade or vocational school, giving undergraduate student applicants up to $2,500 per academic year and graduate student applicants up to $5,000. Repayment doesnt begin until six months after leaving school, and you have up to ten years to repay. But your family income affects eligibility. So other financing may be required.
Low 12% PLUS Loans Government-backed Parent Loans to Undergraduate Students give parents, as well as independent undergraduates and graduate students, up to $3,000 a year as a supplement to or replacement for a PHEAA loan. There are no income restrictions and you have up to five years to repay your PLUS loan.
Low 11.25%* Home Equity LoansFor maximum student loan help, your parents can consider the loan that puts their homes equity to work putting you through college. A Dollar Bank Home Equity Loan. It has all the advantages of a variable rate and you dont have to worry about maximum loan amounts. If your parents income is too high to qualify for other assistance, this is the loan to consider.
Heres a convenient way to apply. PLUS Loan and Home Equity Loan applicants must meetSimply complete this label and return Dollar Bank s credlt criteria.it to: Dollar Bank, Marketing ^         
Department, 535 Smithfield St., ' !Pittsburgh, PA 15222. Well send you I Name:---------------------------------------------- Jeverything you need to make paying | ... tfor college just a little bit easier. J Mdress:---------------------------------------------
City:______________State:_____Zip:---------I__________________I
* Example: 11.25% initial rate, 11.52% APR. APR car increase. Based on a $25,000 line approved September 1, 1985 and hit'JuQ a deposit relationship with Dollar Bank.
CALL 412/261-8462.
Dollar Bank
Member FSLIC
A Federal Savings Bank
Equal Opportunity Lender
