THAT HOME CONCERT 
AND DANCE 
FRIDAY NIGHT(Ihr ariaii
NOW FOR TRACK 
AND 
BASEBALL
VOL. XIV. No. 22.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.MARCH 10, 1920.
Administration Approves Date
Set For Tech Campus Week
Committee Now Turns Efforts to Details.
Alumni Prepare Stunts.
Campus Week is now to be a reality 
as the Administration and faculty 
have finally approved the dates and 
the general plan of celebration as pre
sented by the committee. The com
mittee will start at once to work out 
the details and pick auxiliary commit
tees to handle the various parts of 
the program.
Now that the Frolic of the Van
ities is oyer the Division of the Arts 
has promised to turn all its talent to
ward making the circus to be held on 
the last day of Campus Week some
thing worth while. Buchanan who so 
successfully staged the Bohemia Un
limited is already scratching his head 
for something that will make the cir
cus a hit and says he already has a 
scheme or two that will make every 
one sit up and take notice.
Qualification day is to be a big fea
ture of the program and will be sup
plemental this year by Tap Day exer
cises. The details of the latter have
as yet not been made known but at 
this time the honorary societies of 
the various schools will pick their new 
members for the. coming year. An in
ter-scholastic track meet is on the 
program. It is very important to make 
this a success and to give our prep 
school guests a welcome that will 
make them all want to come to Tech.
The alumni have several stunts they 
are going to pull that will make the 
undergraduates realize that that or
ganization is a live one.
Clubs and fraternities that are plan
ning spring house-parties ,reunions or 
other entertainment should arrange to 
hold these affairs during the Campus 
Week Celebration. Letters are to be 
sent all such organizations asking 
their cooperation in getting in touch 
with their alumni and planning enter
tainment.
The efforts of the entire student 
body must now be turned toward mak
ing Campus Week one of the biggest 
annual events on Techs calendar.
FROLIC OF VANITIES 
BEST BALL IN HISTORY OF DIVISION OF ARTS
The Frolic of the Vanities, as the 
annual Ball of the Arts Division was 
called this year, was held Friday night 
in the foyer of the Arts Building. In 
originality and splendor of decoration 
and beauty of costume the affair was 
undoubtedly the most gorgeous spec
tacle to be seen this seasonnot only 
in Pittsburgh, but in the United 
States.
The Ball, which has been an annual 
occasion for a number of years, is con
ceived and carried out in every detail 
by instructors and students of the 
Arts Division. From sketched sug
gestions for decoration of the main 
foyer to the making of each individual 
costume, the Ball is the product of 
this group of artists; and the occasion 
forms the one time during the year 
wheri every one dresses as his vanity 
dictates.
This years decorations carried out 
the idea of a frolic of vanity. Gigantic 
peacocks of purple, green and goldformed panels on the walls, separated 
by huge mirrors around which the 
lights were concealed. Purple cur
tains arid green lattice-work covered 
the rest of the walls, except the cen
tral panel above the orchestra, where 
a white and gold^peacock with a pur
ple one on either side, spot-lighted 
from the ceiling, made a gorgeous cen
tral motif. From the lattice work of 
the ceiling hung hundreds of vari-colored balloons ,which caught the light 
as they swayed and added gaiety and 
bouyancy to the more sober tones of 
the main scheme.
Photographs were taken of individ
uals and groups all during the evening 
and after the grand march, when the 
most striking costumes were selected, 
special photographs for the Pictorial 
Section of the New York Times were 
taken. Several of the costumes were 
marvelously decorated, representing 
an investment of -hundreds of dollars 
for rare materials and jewelry, and 
several months of work in the making.
Supper was served in the Exhibition 
Room at one oclock, the guests sitting 
on the floor in true Bohemian fashion 
and watching vaudeville acts furnish
ed by members of the school.
Impressions, by Buchanan and 
Seidel, and the Jazz Trio, Mulled, 
Spear and Perkins featured the bill.
Dancing was again resumed until 
four oclock, when the Ball came to 
an end, as everyone expressed it, at 
the height of its glory.Five oclock breakfasts were served 
at several of the fraternity houses, 
where a few unquenchable souls still 
continued the spirit of the Jazz.
At eight oclock it is certain that all 
of the participants were dreaming of 
the most successful ball in the history 
of the Arts Division.
M. M. D. PROM PROVES RIVAL TO OTHERS HELD 
IN FORMER YEARS
The M. M. D. Junior Prom was 
held on Friday night, March 5, in the 
ballroom of the Schenley Hotel. The 
affair was a big success and every
thing possible was done by the Jun
iors to make the evening an enjoyable 
one to their guests, the Seniors.
The ballroom was decorated with 
smilax and spring flowers and music 
was furnished by Maggios orchestra. 
The favors were in the form of leath
er programs, cigarette cases for the 
men and card cases for the girls. A 
buffet supper of fruit salad, ice cream, 
cakes and coffee was served at mid
night. The grand march was led by 
Miss Eleanor McCarstu, Junior Class 
President; Miss Agnes Piper, Senior 
Class President, officiated for her 
class.
The patroness of the affair were 
Mrs. Andrew Carnegie, Miss Mary 
Breed Mrs. Taylor Alderdyce, Mrs. A. 
H. Church, Mrs. A. A. Hammerschlag, 
Mrs. Charles Watkins, Miss Mary C. 
Coleman, Miss H. M. Pope, Miss Mary 
Holmes and Mrs. Sherman Conrad. 
Miss Louise Irvin, social chairman of 
the Junior Class was head of the vari
ous committees, which included Mis
ses Gladys Sleppy, Amelia Schade, 
Agnes Russel, Vivian Schmucker, 
Bess Murphy, Lois McCombs, Mar 
garet Stolzenbach and Ruth Quick.-O-MARYLAND MEN TOORGANIZE CLUB SOON
A meeting of all Maryland and Dis
trict of Columbia men of this school 
will be held Thursday 8 p. m. in the 
Science Club Room. This organiza
tion is not for Science men only but 
for all the representatives of that 
territory in the other schools, there
fore everybody is urged to come out 
and help to give this club a good 
start. This will be a good chance to 
get acquainted with the men from 
your home town.
The purpose of this organization 
will be to foster Techs interests in 
that locality and at the same time in
crease the Social standing among the 
men of that locality. This will be 
a Tech organization so everybody 
come out on Thursday 8 p. m. in the 
Science Club Room.----------Q---------
NEW ENGLAND CLUBS
PLAN FUTURE POLICY
Musical Clubs Prepare to
Give Be& Concert of Year
To be Followed by Formal
Dance in Syria Mosque.
Several Novelty Stunts.
The Musical Clubs big Home Con
cert comes off Friday evening, March 
12th followed by the Formal Dance in 
Syria Mosque. The concert this year 
will be one of the peppiest ever put 
on the stage of the Carnegie Musical 
Hall. The concert will be peppered 
with some of the most original and 
entertaining stunts ever before wit
nessed. Not one Tech supporter dare 
miss this big affair.
Have you got your ticket?
The prices of the tickets are such 
that every Tech enthusiast will be 
able to come and enjoy this excep
tional treat. Prices 50c75c$1.00 
and $1.50 as usual.
COMMERCIAL CLUB HEARS INTERESTING TALK
Should the United States be iso 
lated in the Commercial World, was 
the subject of Prof. Kidds interesting 
lecture before the Cosmopolitan Club 
last week. Prof. Kidd gave many log
ical reasons as to the inadvisability 
and advisability of such an action. 
He pointed out the effects if such an 
action should come about and their 
direct results.
After the lecture, business matters 
of the Club were taken up and the 
subject of becoming a national chap
ter discussed, after which the meeting 
was adjourned.
The New England Club met Wed
nesday night for the first time this 
year. There are about a hundred and 
fifty New England men in this school 
and the club intends to have every 
one on the roll. The following offi
cers were elected for the ensuing year. 
H. R. Titus president, P. Monstrey, 
vice-president, R. P. Dunnahue, sec
retary and Musson, treasurer.
The function of this club is to boost 
Tech in that territory ,and also in
crease the social standing among the 
men of that territory. A Baked 
Bean Supper, is to be given a week 
after the examinations of this quart
er. That baked bean supper will not 
be similar to tha* of Skibo or the 
beanery, but will be something extra
ordinary. The men who attended 
such a supper last year know what 
is coming. Every New England man 
is urged to come out, for the club in
tends to do active work this year and 
the cooperation of every man is need
ed.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB 
HOLDS GOOD MEETING
Mr. Kidd Speaks.
The Cosmopolitan Club meeting 
held last Wednesday, March 3, proved 
very successful and very interesting. 
A tthis meeting Mr. Polomo was elect
ed vice president. Another important 
business matter discussed at the meet
ing was with respect to the financial 
condition of the club. It was proposed 
that greater effort be made in col
lecting overdue dues and it is kindly 
requested that all members cooperate 
in this effort by coming across. 
Relative to the financial question it 
was proposed that the club hold a 
dance in the near future, hoping in 
this way to increase the interest and 
spirit of the Cosmopolitan studentsat 
Carnegie Tech. The suggestion was 
also brought up that preparation be 
made for the annual banquet. It is 
kindly requested by the officers of 
the club that the members cooperate 
with them in carrying out this pro
gram for the remainder of the year 
and help make the Cosmopolitan club 
one of the leading fraternities of the 
school, which position it should na
turally hold. The last but not least 
was the interesting address given by 
Prof. Kidd, of Carnegie Tech on For
eign Relations. The subject and the 
very interesting manner in which it 
was presented by our able professor 
proved very interesting. After the 
speech different members clustered 
about Prof. Kidd asking questions in 
regard to the vital and serious condi
tion of international trade exchange. 
Those who were not present at this 
meeting missed a treat. Lt is hoped 
that all will turn out for the next 
meeting which we believe will be just 
as interesting if the committee can?
Several stunts are ot be staged 
which are still black-horses to 
many. On Sunday both clubs had the 
most severe practice thus far this 
year and on Wednesday evening the 
finishing touches will be put on.
For the dance afterwards, the jaz
ziest orchestra in Pittsburgh has been 
procured so everybody whether go
ing to concert and dance or going on
ly to the concert is assured an ex
cellent evenings entertainment. The 
committee requests that no bloomers 
be worn. The 50c seats are just as 
good as the $1.50 seats remember that.
Be sure to be on hand.
CHEMISTS CLUB HOLOS 
ENTERTAINING SMOKER
Class Stunts Feature.
The Chemists Club held a very in
teresting and entertaining smoker on 
Tuesday the second. The serious 
business was a talk on spirits by Mr 
Wirtz, a graduate. No it wasnt spir
itualism, it wus the kind of spirits 
that some people drink and wish they 
hadn'twood alcohol and it homologues (ask any chemical about that 
last word.
This was followed by the Junior 
stunt, a minstrel show by Messrs. 
Piorce, Magnuson, Nicholson, Aron, 
ChernofF and Arnold and Sharove, end 
men. Sharove starred with his won
derful stories and Pierce and Magnuson sang (?) a number of songs.
The Senior stunt was a dialogue by 
Harpel and Schaefer, representing Jo 
aquin Bertind de Mavaes Carvalho 
and a student having an argument. 
This brought down the house.
The Soph stunt was a fine mono
logue by Repplier. Then of course 
there were eats, smokes and the his
toric custom of chewing the rag.---------O----------
A movement has been started at 
Brown to found a school of Sociology 
in China.----------D----------
piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiauiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiii
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
WANTED.
The Students Activities Board H 
are going to install an Advergj 
tising Bureau and want all as_ 
pirants for the position to comfj 
= municate with C. B. Schmidt, g 
g Box 157, Central Building Postfj 
p office immediately.
Track Team Defeated by
We&inghouse Club in Dual Meet
Kelly and Stults Do Bejft For Tech. 
Former Tech Man Defeats Students of His Alma Mater.
The track squad, in their first com
petitive meet of the season, was de
feated last Saturday night by the fast 
Westinghouse Club. All the Tech men 
gained some valuable experience com
peting against the Club Team which 
was composed of older and quite more 
experienced men. Kelly a new track 
man on our squad gave Westinghouse 
the most trouble. Kelly finished first 
in the 30-yard dash, 220 yard dash 
and ran a wonderful race in the half 
mile relay. Hillar finished in fine form 
in the 440 and won a pretty race. In 
the two-mile run Miller ran a nice 
race but was nosed out of first place 
on the last lap by Hepler a Westinghouse man.
Murphy, an old Tech man, defeat
ed his old school in the running high 
jump. Stults of Tech won first in the 
pole vault with some exceptionally 
good vaulting. Wendell, Lockwood 
and Hepler starred for Westinghouse 
in the races while Murphy, Ege and 
Blythe did splendid work for tlio Club 
in the floor events. The final score 
was as followsTech 27Westing
house 59.
List of Winners.
89 yard dash
1: Kelly Tech 3 1-5 sec.
2. Wendell W. C.
3. Radman W. C.* * *
220 yard dash
1. Kelly Tech 20 4-5 sec.
C. M. E. S. PLANS FOR 
YEARS JEST MEETING
Prof. Trinks to Speak.
The biggest turnout the Carnegie 
Mechanical Engineering Society has 
had this year is expected tomorrow 
night. The meeting will bo held in 
Room 11, Machinery Hall, at eight 
oclock.
Prof. Truilu:, head of the Mechani
cal Engineering department, has man
aged at last to find a vacant evening, 
and he has consented to speak to the 
society. His subjoct will bo non-teehnical, and any one who knows Prof. 
Trinks knows it will be worth while.
Come out, you Junior and Soph Me
chanicals, and get acquainted with 
your department head. All Freshmen 
who expect to take the Mechanical 
course are also invited.
This will bo the one opportunity 
for the Mechanicals to really get to
gether with Prof. Tinks and they are 
all urged to bo on hand and get ac
quainted before the big annual ban
quet, which is going to be the best we 
ever had, even if it will be run on 
2.75 per cent.
Dont forget. Machinery Hall, 
Room 11, at 8.00 p. m., tomorrow 
night. Be there.
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
MARCH 12th
HOME CONCERT
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
FORMAL DANCE SYRIA MOSQUE I
if
Prices 50c, 75c, $1.00, $1.50 Dance $1.00
lliBIBlftliliailiMllIinillWSliiliflfllIllMiUlllinilillulllilMiaHlL
M. M. D. INVESTIGATES 
ATHLETIC INSIGNIA
A committee composed of Marjorie 
Smith, Vivian Schmucker and Cather
ine McDonald, has been appointed to 
take up the matter of awarding a 
medal or pin to all girls in the Mar
garet Morrison School who have se
cured 50 points in athletic activities. 
Activities in athletics carrying a cer
tain number of points a year are bask
etball, hockey, swimming, tennis, and 
hiking. A letter is awarded to any 
girl securing 100 points throughout 
the four years, but as this is quite 
difficult to do the athletic association 
has taken measures to award some 
recognition to those girls securing 
fifty points.
STRINGERS GIVE NOVEL
On Friday at the noon hour the 
Stringers furnished music for an 
impromptu dance in the recreation 
hall for the small fee of 15c. The 
money is to be used towards the 
Stringers contribution to the Athletic 
fund. Quite a fev/ of the girls at
tended and very much appreciated the 
wonderful music to which one could 
not help dancing. The strains of No 
body knows and nobody cares brot 
the girls from the basement and from 
the attic. Everyone hopes that this 
one afTair will be the first of many.
The personnel of the Stringer's is 
Mary Louise McCaughey, Helen 
Black, Florence Lutz, Mary Jones, 
Isabel Winner, Marjorie Smith, Mary 
Martin, Virginia Moorman, Mary 
Fife, Frances Bui-rows, Eleanor Craver, Elnore Davies.
2. Long, \\\ C.
8. Russell Tech ? * *
440 yard dash
1. Hillar, Tech 65 4-5 sec.2. Sendall, W. C.
3. Hall, W. C.% * *
Runnihg high jump
1. Murphy, W. C. -8
2. Lockwood, W. C.3. Moon, Tech.* W *
Pole Vault
1. Stults, Tech.
2. Blythe, W. C.- 
8. Read, W. C.* * *
880 yard run
1. Hepler, W. C., 2 102. Riley, W. C.
3. Murray, W. C.* * ?
One Mile
1. Hepler, W. C., 4 502. Riley, W. C.
3. Gossard, Tech.
* * *
Two Mile
1. Hepler, W. C., 10 G2. Miller, Tech.
3. Greenlaw, Tech.* * *
Shot Put
1. Ego, W. C. 45 8
2. MaxNeil, W. C.
3. Moon Toch.
PLUCKY FLUID PLEBES 
DEFEAT CASINO FIVE
Skinny McCaw Featuros Game With Uncanny Goal Shooting.
The Plaid plobos staging their last 
game of the season, Friday night, 
found anothor easy victim in the Ca
sino five, dofoating them by a score of 30-20.
Coach Hazels last words were 
This is your last game and you fel
lows ought to know how to play it. 
That puts the do-or-dio spirit In the 
right sort of a man; and Hazels subdobs are made of the right material 
for they fought their last game to a victory for Tech.
During tho first half both teams 
were feeling around for the weak 
spots and neither seemed to bo ublo 
to gain any material advantago over 
the othor, also the Freshmen by clover 
dodging and with the aid of McCaw 
came out five points in tho lead.
Tho second half was easy, anyway 
Skinny McCaw says it was easy. It 
was at this period of tho game that 
Mac staged a wonderful exhibition of 
goal shooting. Any angle, any posi
tion, any part of the floor it didnt 
matter to this plebe, ho was as un
concerned as if he were listening to 
one of Barnes' lectures. As soon as 
Skinny would get tho ball, somebody 
would shout Shoot and Skinny 
would shoot, wo dont know how it is 
done but when tho ball left Macs 
hands, it would describe one of those 
cata-rabolic curves, hit the dashboard 
roll around the rim of the basket sev
eral times, to make sure the net was 
untangled, and then when everything 
was in readiness it would jump about 
a foot above the basket, so as to have 
a good momentum going through 
(This is where you hold your breath) 
and Zip! a clean basket. Lots of 
applause, the spectators would recov
er and shout Ataboy Skinny, the 
scorer would hang up two more points 
for Techs youngsters and the game 
would go so that McCaw could repeat 
his uncanny trick. McCaw pulled off 
seven shots like that and two close to 
the basket.
Anderson guarded well, got one 
basket and made 10 of 21 attempts 
for foul goals. Miller played a scrap
py game and aided materially in keep
ing the Casino score low. The lineup:
Casino20. Plebes36.
Morgart................F................... McCaw
Jacobs...................F........................Miller
Maldoon...............C.............. McKenna
Jearbeck.................G...............Trimble
Campbell..............C..............Anderson
Substitutions: Cassidy for Morgart, 
Livingston for Trimble.
Field Goals: Maldoon 2, Campbell 
2, Anderson 1, Livingston 1, Miller 2, 
McCaw 1).
Foul Goals: Campbell 6 out of 12, 
Cassidy 6 out of 14, Anderson 10 out 
of 21.
Referee: A1 Slack. 0----------Prof. Michail RostovtzefF of Ox, 
ford, recently appointed to the faculty 
of the University of Wisconsin is now 
lecturing at the College de France in 
Paris.
The oxford press is now publishing 
two of his historical works.

---------------------------------------------------

THB TAMTAMWEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1920.PAGE TWO.
(Bip (Haran
mammsmm
Fubliahed every week by undergrad uateu of the Carnegie Institute oi 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.K8TOWN
AVENUESEntered in the postot'ice o Pittsburgh as Hecond-class matter. The Sophomore meeting held Wed
nesday, March 3, was one of the pep
piest and best attended meeting' so far this year. Practically every Sophmore in the Division was present.
Due to the resignation of the Fresh
men Regulation Committee a new one 
was appointed.
The new men are R. Gofert (Chuin) 
V. H. Wilson, J. A. Sam P. Jewel 
and Rea. This will make an ad
dition of three more men than were 
on the old committee.
A change also was made in the 
present social committee. Mr. Cousini 
was placed on this committee to take 
the place of Mr. Wilson who was 
transferred to the Freshman Regula
tion committee.
A class correspondent was also ap
pointed. This is a new office and 
will be tried out. The Sophomoi*e 
class has had very little publicity so 
far this year and it will be up to the 
class correspondent to get as much 
publicity for the class as posible. Mr. 
W. F. Cousini was appointed to hold 
this office.
Things are getting down to brass 
tacks now after the shake up we were 
in when the Elet ran oil' with our 
leader: But we are here to say Every 
dog has his Day, and our day is every 
day. So all you plebe focus your sky 
lights 011 this lines and dont leave 
them sift off but let them soak in.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.76
Kditor-in-ChicfLcRoy E. Emcrich
Phone Hazel 9422
T. W. AllsworthBuoincaa ManagerPhone Hazel 9426.
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool 
Of finest Make 
Durable 
Lasting 
Of latest Styles 
Wonderful values 
Sure Satisfaction ! 
Goodlows Good Clothes 
Opportunitys 
Offer of Style-perfection 
Dress Up ! Buy Now ! 
College Men appreciate them 
Ladies admire Men who wear them 
Others envy them 
This is your chance 
Here is your selection 
Even now awaiting your visit 
SERVICE FIRST 1
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
A&niutant Managing Editori
F. I. Smith
C. L. Lake 
New Editor 
J. T. Amea 
Aiibociatc News Editor 
W. D. Hall
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. &. W. Macalpine
Industriea...........................J. R. Etldisili
Arts.................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
Ralph Shanno
$8.50 to $16.60
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE EXPEN8E by buying bettor nhooo. You will find them far choapor to wear than nhoes which are not ao high In quality.
Our now modclo for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they arc full of napJunt nultable for tho collc<go man.
Athletic Editor
G. It. GoodrichBUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour
Aaaiutant Athlctic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICERoom 162, DesignHours1:00 
12:00 to
to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
1:00 Thursdays.
II Phonos 571 & 9189 8chenloy 
P. A A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at one.
Household Qooda Moved, 8torod, 
' Paoked and 8hlppi*d.The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postol'iice, entral Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.Good ClothesRomance is not dead! The great 
war cast the fortunes of Miss Margar
et Lappe and Major Robert Wheeler 
together in Washington, and now 
nothing can ever "uncast them. For 
now she is Mrs. Robert Wheeler, of 
Athensyes the Athens of poetryetc.
Who at Tech does not already know 
the romantic story? Who, for weeks 
past can have failed to see the dis
tracted bride-to-be, rushing about the 
campus, wondering if she was to be 
married that day or the next? Who 
can have failed to see the telegraph 
boys arriving at Woodlawn, with mes
sages from Washington, or the de
partment store boys arriving with the 
trousseau? If you are one of those 
born with a silver spoon in your 
mouth, you may have seen the groom 
himself, along with a notary public, 
a taxi, and a marriage license ecstatic
ally entering the Dorm, on that beaut
iful spring wedding morn of March 
the third.
The licenseis filled out, the rice 
and old footwear are ready for action, 
the Brides hair is curledin short the 
ceremony can take place! What is 
that? Some discerning one has dis
covered that, in the excited weeks of 
the past, the ring has been ignored 
by the bride, and forgotten by the 
groom. The distracted Miss Lappe 
swears she has never worn a ring of 
any sort, that she does not know if 
her finger measures two inches or two 
milesbut Mr. Wheeler must have 
found one to fit somewhere, for they 
tell me that that same afternoon the 
wedding went oil without any faux 
pus, nor did the bridegroom have to 
crawl under the pulpit for a ring that 
had slipped oil because of its size. 
If tho ring proved as becoming to 
Miss Lappe as her very pretty blue 
suit, and stylish spring hat, she must 
have been very charming indeed.
The ceremony was performed in the 
First Presbyterian Church, with the 
Reverend Dr. W. A. Jones officiating, 
and afterwards, as Mrs. Wheeler had 
predicted when she was Miss Lappe, 
the wedding party went to the Billy 
Penn for dinner. The thrilling day 
terminated with catching a train, at 
9:30 in the evening, for New York, 
where the couple will stay until their 
steamer sails for the magic spot. Mr. 
Wheeler, who has now left the army, 
will work as a sanitary engineer in 
Greece.
The night before the wedding, the 
third floor at Woodlawn (the Mar
garet Morrison Dorm where Miss 
Lappe was staying) gave her a real 
party, at which enough rice was wast
ed to feed three Chinese families for 
three years. Of course all enjoyed 
themselves immensely, and no one 
thought of going to sleep. Its quite 
a celebration  getting married, but 
when youre sailing for Athens at the 
same time! ! !
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
OTHER SEASONS OPEN.
After a very unsuccessful basketball season, our attention is now turned 
toward track and baseball.
Under the regime of the new athletic council and with the recent assur
ance of the student support it is certain that these two branches of sport 
will have a more successful season than the one just completed.
Those with ability in these branches should recognize now the advan
tages of coming out for the teams as well as that of trying to maintain a 
good scholastic standing so as to be eligiblealways.
SKIBO INN
EATS
Fair Dealing Is the Foreword of the Tartan Advertisers.THE HOME CONCERT.
Only once a year comes the opportunity of every student to support a 
general social and formal event. The Home Concert this year promises to 
be one of the best, if not the best ever held. The dance following is the 
only formal event to which every one is eligible and supports one of the 
leading' non-athletic activities. The committee has made splendid arrange
ments even to the slightest detail. They expect one hundred per cent sup
port from the student body. Are you going to disappoint them?
BollSohonloy U80
MISS OLEARY]
(Formerly with J. 10. T. Hliuman) 
DRY GLEANINGEEPAIEIKO 
Ludloit' mid Mu'# Olothoi, Garpeti
Work Gunrnntuod mid Turned Out on Short Notloo.
Will cull for nil proiiiiuy; nnd olounliitf ut Ifrnt FROLRIC
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, FA.
IN COMMON DISCOURSE
There is still an aftermath of the Science Stag. The Senior stunt is 
being criticized and discussed. It may be well to drop all discussions per
taining to this. It is not worthy of comment, us it even showed lack of re
spect for faculty members present.
Realizing that the majority of the men who were to participate in the 
stunt wore either ill or unable to be there and that there was intended to 
be a moral connected with the stunt, it is hoped that all mention of this socalled stain on the history of the Senior class, will cease immediately. As 
said before it is not worthy of it. Do not hold the author entirely respon
sible, as his intentions were good. Forget it.ll/IURADS are as different from
ordinary cigarettes as morning is from 
midnight. 
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes. 
The trifling additional cost of Murads will 
bring bigger returns in Quality than any in
vestment you ever made. 
Because Murads are
100?; PURE TURKISHTHE WORLDS MOST ff.
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES. -
Judge for 
yourself!
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED PARCEL, Proprietor.
Nearest und Bent Laundry 
Agency.
;
THE CARNEGIE ENGINEER."
Carnegie Tech is behind all the other important engineering schools in 
the country in respect to engineering literature. Almost every tech
nical school has a paper devoted to original articles by students, faculty, 
and alumni nnd to abstracts from technical magazines, which will be of 
interest to its readers. These magazines receive the first accounts of original 
research by those connected with the respective institutions. They publish 
articles by tho students on subjects which have been carefully investigated 
for reports, but which would otherwise bo forgotten, is Tech to be behind all 
other schools in this respect? Should not Science School publish a technical journal?
Carnegie Tech should have an engineering magazine. There are great 
mines from which material can be obtained. The students, alumni and 
faculty can cooperate to make a well balanced book of which the students 
will contribute discussions of technical topics and in a few cases, original in
vestigations. In the courses in which a thesis is required some of the papers 
will make valuable material. Seminar and colloquium papers will also be 
good. The faculty and alumni are frequently engaged in research work and 
will be able to contribute valuable articles. Additional material will be as 
follows; excerpts of general interest from technical journals, an open forum 
for the discussion of engineering subjects and a column of personals.
The students of Science School will have to be behind such a project to 
make it go. Think over the proposition, for your opinion and ideas on the 
subject will probably be asked for by those who are pushing the Carnegie 
Engineer.Contributed.
BOOKING DATES FOR ACTIVITIES.
It frequently occurs that two student organizations, in ignorance of 
each others plans, schedule the same date for an event, the attendance and 
interest of both suffering in consequence. There is being maintained in my 
office a calendar of student events, and the co-operation of the various 
student organizations is urged in order to give the calendar its maximum 
usefulness. By telephoning my office, before establishing a date, information 
can be secured as to whether some other event has already been scheduled for that date or hour.
A. W. TARBELL, Dean of Men.
lf VQf
THE PLACE WHERE jj
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES j!
Bellefield 11
Shoe Repairing Co. ,i
Acroim from the Library
j TRAN8ITS AND LEVEL8 i ALL SUPPLIE8 FOR THE DRAFTING ROOM
j Engineers Equipment, Instruj ) ments of Precision, Blue Print j and Brown Print Papers and [ j Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO. I
126 SIXTH STREET
WS/SMI5JSSi?J3J3MS/cli3Mi3JSfMS/S/Sil/Ui
CALENDAR OF STUDENT EVENTS
March 11C. M. E. S. Meeting................................Room 11, Machinery Hall
March 11Freshmen Science Dance ............................................................Union
March 11Freshmen Science Dance................................................................Union
March 1*2Musical Club Home Concert
March 18Junior Chemical Dance .................................................................Union
March 18Insurance Party................................................................................Union
March 19Building Construction Dance ......................................................UnionTHE 
NEW PEKINliuS 111 Nl HI rNllS nelly, Commissioner of Labor and Inunii unni/ ni iu minim dustl'y r the stato of Pennsylvania,NEW YORK CUN DINNER f,onu:,1'v ir" f the I1I)ivi^on f In.-dustnes; Mr. Henry H. Hornbostel, 
Patron of the Division of the Arts;
At the dinnor of the New York Clan Mr. G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni Executive 
of the Carnegie Institute of TechnolSecretary, and Mr. Henry J. McCorogy, which was held in the Blue Room klep formerly Alumni Executive Secof tho Hotel McAlpin Saturday evonrotary. About r>0 graduates were 
ing, March (>, representatives of every present. The principal speech was de
class from 1008 to 1919 were present, livored by Georgo L. Burgess, presiAmong the guests were Mr. James dent of the New York Clan, lmBertram, Secretary of the Carnegie promptu addresses were made by 
Corporation of New York; Mr. John Colonel Church, Mr. Bertram, Mr.
A. Poynton, formerly private secrePoynton and Mr. Connelley. A caretary to Mr. Andrew Carnegie, and fully prepared statement of the pro
member of the Carnegie Corporation ; gress of the Institute was given by 
Col. S. H. Church, chairman of the President Hamerschlag. Expressions 
Board of Trustees of Carnegie Instiof opinion were unanimously in favor 
tute of Technology; President A. A. of a forward looking program for the 
Hamerschlag; Hon. Clifford C. ConCarnegie Institute of Technology.
Dormitory four and six gave their 
annual dance on Saturday night A1 
Shoepfs orchestra, the famous vivac
ious, brisk, spirited ja-z-z generators, 
supplied the lively notes which causes 
the feet to move briskly. A prize was 
given to the lucky couple of the dorm 
special.
President McCoullough led the 
grand march. Mr. and Mrs. W. 
Pfouts and Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Dosey 
were the chaperons. A good deal of 
work had been expended by the com
mittee to make this affair a success. 
The results obtained was equivalent 
to the work expended so the success 
of this dance was a hundred per cent 
efficient.
The committee in charge was C. J. 
Copley, chairman; E. W. Vander 
Wolk, and P. B. Campbell.
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1920.THE TAJRTANPAGE THREE.
(Eongregatton
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi.
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10.
Subject: Can We Speak with the Dead?' By Rabbi Louis Wolsey of Cleveland.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
propagandists like to speak in thfe 
same breath of Compulsory Health 
rlnstirance, Fire Insurance and Life 
Insurance. The economic and social 
value of fire and life insurance is ob
vious and the Illinois Commission 
found 77 per cent'of the male heads 
of wage-earning families throughout 
the state protected by an average of 
$850.00 per man. Ninety per cent of 
insurable risks are protected by tire 
insurance while in Illinois and Ohio 
but 3 1-3 per cent of the costs of sick
ness are covered by insurance. Why 
this startling contrast? There are 
two reasonsexcessive cost and ex
cessive waste.
Three thousand dollar insurance 
against fire costs $5.00 annually. If it 
cost $750.00 annually few would carry 
the protection, yet 5 and 750 represent 
approximately the difference between 
the cost of fire and sickness insurance. 
$3,000.00 term life insurance, age 35, 
costs about $30.00 per year. The 
family type of health insurance will 
reduce the average to $1.00 protection 
for each $1.00 paid as premium. The 
United States Bureau of Labor Statis
tics ascertained that in 1918 in Cleve
land, Toledo, Lorain and Columbus 
719 families had sickness expenses av
eraging $42.00 per family; 99 per cent 
of the families had sickness; 7 fami
lies of the 719 had sickness expense 
amounting to $300.00. Therefore, ar
gue minds of a certain type, the 99 
per cent should be insured to protect 
the very unfortunate one per cent.
From July, 1914, to Oecember, 191S, 
it cost the 14 largest self-insuring 
groups in New York State $2,178.00 to 
distribute $5,353,000 in benefits  
41^ c to distribute $1.00 in benefits 
under the conditions of the workmens 
compensation act. It cost the State 
of New York 4%c to supervize the 
spending of each dollar, a total there
fore of 46c to distribute the one dol
lar of benefits. These costs being paid 
by business concerns spending their 
own money for specific injuries re
ceived, to what proportions will they 
mount under a politically controlled 
system of Compulsory Health insur
ance, planned to cover such minor ail
ments as common colds among em
ployes and their children?
Would It Work With the Tacs. 
The students of the University of
B.uenos Aires are permitted to vote as 
tcC which members of the faculty shall 
bew retained.
If your fountain pen is in need of repairs, if you need h new. satisfactory pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, dance programs, favors,- special felt goods or Tech recognition pins, call at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in Jenkins Arcade.Adv. ,Mass Meeting at Penn.
The Penn students will hold in the 
future, at regular intervals, get-to
gether meeting at which college mat
ters may be discussed. There has 
long been a feeling that this type of 
mass meeting would help to advance 
the university spirit.
On Thursday night a Dorm Dance 
was given by dormitory one and dorm
itory two. The dance was a great 
success for the committee had suc
ceeded in obtaining Maggios orchest
ra, the same that supplied the lively 
notes for the Junior Prom and Soph 
Hop. Sixteen dances were given and 
the attendance was exceedingly good. 
A few novel dances were put on which 
surprised the visitors. The faculty 
was also represented.
Everybody agreed that that evening 
was well spent and they thanked the 
committee for making the event a suc
cess. The committee in charge was
E. E. Flynn, chairman; C. B. Bryant, 
Wm. R. Hamilton, L. C. Miller, R. J. 
Strock and J. D. Feeney
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
FRAT PIN  Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Somewhere in Industries. Kindly re
turn to Dean Tarbells office.
Dartmouth.
Dartmouths football team expects 
to journey to the University of Wash
ington next season, this being their 
first long western tour.
At present Dartmouth coaches are 
busily putting on the finishing touches 
for the meet with Harvard and Cornell.
SLIDE RULE  Found February 
17th. Apply at Dean of Mens office.
LOST  A pair of black leather 
gloves, wool-lined. Finder please 
turn them in to Dean Tarbells office. 
$1.00 Reward.Penn State.
Ex-President William Howard Taft 
has accepted the nomination to Phi 
Kappa Phi granted by the local chapter.
AFTER THE BALL.
When your feet are lead, and your 
poor old head,
Is feeling so awfully ginny 
And an ancient jay, with a flapper gay 
Is shaking em up in a shimmie. 
When the peppy razz and the 
rythmic jazz,
Are drowned by the slide horns blare 
And the chaperone kicks the saxo
phone
With a whoop of I dont care.
When the bead gives way and your 
costume gay 
Threatens an instant fall 
While the peacocks sly leave their 
perch on high 
And caper down the hall 
When two suns rise in the eastern 
skies
And the milkman starts to roam 
Take it from me while you still can
see
Dearie, its time to go home.----------0----------COMPULSORY HEALTH 
INSURANCE.
Will Compulsory Health Insurance 
fairly and efficiently distribute the 
cost of sickness over large groups of 
individuals? If not then its propon
ents have not a leg to stand on. Such
Pittsburgh, Pa.
LOSTGold fountain pen, between 
Morewood Ave. and Carnegie Library, 
on Forbes St. Finder please return to 
Directors office, Arts Division.Grace Church
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Acessories For Rent
(Reformed)
1AYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET1 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
8ERVICE8:Sunday Sahool9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M.Social Hour and Luncheon ior stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
Harvard.
Harvard has now been assured of 
a graduate school, having received an 
endowment of two 'million and passed 
all the conditions imposed by the Gen
eral Education Board.Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Sex-vice, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
406 Pittsburgh Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 1254 Grant
New Mexico.
The state college will debate the 
Agricultural College at Alburquerque 
about May 1 on the question Re
solved that the United States should 
intervene in Mexico with an armed force.
The Juniors at State are having 
hard luck, as it was necessary to call 
off the Junior Prom on account of a 
Flu epidemic.
ASCENSION EPI8COPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue snd Neville 8trt 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROS8 R. CALVIN, Assistant Sunday Servlocfl, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A M. and 8:00 P. M.ronege Mon's Bible Class at 10:00,I d by Dr. Calrln.
Genuinely Welcome.
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: :80, 8:00, 9:00. 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sunday and Holy Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7-30 P M. Ptfiir 68. Middle Aif-io, for Tech St.aon tji
Arizona.
The first Arizona Girls Field Day 
will be held in the early part of April. 
Tennis, hockey and a number of min
or games will form the program.3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGEM. M. D. SCHOOL NOTES.
The Alumni Association of Mar
garet Morrison held a tea at the 
school last Saturday afternoon. The 
feature of the affair was a musical 
program given by the Stringers.
Mrs. Philphut has returned  to 
school after an absence of four weeks 
due to a severe attack of influenza.
OUR OWN MIDDLE CLASS.
They say what they think, 
j They arc genuine and frank. b j 
maybe crude, but not deceitful. I 
: The fundamental virtues are !H 
i there in purer form than in any : j 
other class, for in the upper 1 
I class, these sweet virtues arc so : I 
H often tainted with pride and de
ceit making the most loving, |
 the most hateful. They work, J 
produce and feci. Other peo
ples worries and troubles arc H 
; theirs. They may not appre
ciate various wave motions or 
chemical compositions but what  
do these add to any mans love, 
p They appreciate the wave moj 
: tions of hearts and the composi| 
tion of souls. No consciousncss 
; of class exists. They are tolcrT 
M ant, not bored by a lower one, | 
f i nor jealous of a higher one, for |
11 what has the higher that would 
|] benefit them. Nothing but maj 
; tcrial things and while these | 
fl would seem at first to be a bless|j ing they would eventually be a 
n curse  to mock their natural p 
!: life.
liillll!!IIIIIIIIIIII'lllllllll!l!!llll!!l!llllllll!lllllillll!lllllllllllll!lll!llll!lll!llllll!!l!ill>lllllllll!llil!!i!lllii
Judging now by the War facts
The American Smoke 
is a cigarette
COLLEGIATE CHATTER.
Indiana.
A Jackson Club has been formed by 
the Democratic students and a late 
bulletin claims that the Republicans
are also forming a club............................* * *
Syracuse.
Ambassador Jusserand, Major Gen
eral Leonard Wood and Viscount 
Grey are expected to be guests at the 
big celebration of the Universitys fif
teenth anniversary, to be held in June*. 
It is expected that this even will sur
pass any ever held at Syracuse.* * *
Ohio.
Ohio University, a university with a 
wealth of history and traditions, will 
observe a holiday February 18 to cele
brate Founders Day. In the after
noon the history of the school will be 
studied from lantern slides showing 
it in the course of development.* * *
Armstrong Acadcmy.
The famous Indian School in Okla
homa burned to, the ground last weok. 
Nearly all the prominent Indians of 
that sections were educated there.* * *
Dartmouth.
A triangular athletic meet will be 
held with Cornell and Harvard on 
February 28. It is expected to pro
duce some close races of all kinds.* * *
Ready With the Camera? Shoot!
At Tufts the students have organiz
ed a movie club, many of the members 
having had some experience in hand
ling the camera, and a few in actual 
performing. They hope to film a short 
college comedy, the cast has been 
made up entirely from club members.* * *
Yeh, Ha!
The advent of spring brings base
ball. The call for candidates has bedn 
issued at many colleges and the re
sults are very promising. Fordham, 
whose big card is baseball is out to 
capture the championship of the East, 
which they barely missed last season. 
Consequently they have arranged a 
stiff schedule. At Yale 250 turned out 
and Harvard has 32 aspirants for the 
battery positions alone.* * *
It May Be So But
Basketball synchronized with music 
is the latest stunt at Kansas Weslyan 
University. An orchestra plays music 
during the game and both players and 
coach agree that it helps them in their 
struggle for goals.* * *
They Bury the Hatchet.
After an interval of 16 years, Cor
nell and Syracuse are resuming ath
letic relations. The football game in 
1900 was the start of the feud, and all 
contests between the college ceased 
after the annual track me.ct in 1904. 
Since that time many have deplored 
the situation, but not until recently 
has any effort been made toward con
ciliation. Cornell started a peace 
movement not long ago, and Syracuse 
has cooperated heartily. As a result 
these old rivals will meet on May 31st 
on Lacrosse. Other contests in minor 
sports are being arranged and a foot
ball game is anticipated in the near 
future.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST coMPAJVY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR KENT
inent citizens, the cigarette is more 
popular than cigar or pipe and as 
highly respected as either.
One cigarette inparticularscems, 
as the following facts show, tohave 
won a position as Americas first 
choice in smoking, East and West, 
North and Southnation-wide.
T\T OTonly because they proved 
i >1 such a necessity with our 
fighting men on land and sea, but 
also bccause they are the mildest 
form of smoking cigarettes have 
at last come into their own.
Today, among young men as 
well as old, plain men and promWhose
Our stock of highgrade drawing mate
rials and range of 
prices will interest you 
and meet your every 
requirement.At Washington 
A fact:
Each day the Nations capitol sees a new throng of big professional and business men from every state in the Union. These changing hundreds of men buy more Fatimas than any other cigarette.
230-234 Diamond Street, 
PITTSBURGH, PA.At the big army training camps during the war were thousands of soldiers from each State and Territory. At every one of these camps, Fatima was a leader.
The officers in our Navy come, of course, from every part of America. Of all the cigarettes sold in Officers Mess throughout the whole Navy, over 90<5i) are Fatimas.
The 15 American men who flew on the NC-l,_NC-3 and NC-4 hailed perhaps from 15 different states. Of the 15, twelve chose Fatimas for that long, lonely, daring flight.
With our NC 
Ocean Fliers 
A fact:
M
EN keep switching from struight Turkish cigarettes because they contain too tr -ci. Turkish. They see:.i c/cr-rich and heavy.
Men keep switching to Fatimas because Fatimas contain just euoug //Turkishjust enough to taste right and just enough to leave a man feeling right, even when he smokes more than usual.
Are you smoking too much Turkish?
17 Blade Decrees 3 CopyingFATIMAA Sensible Cigarette
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO.
217 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1920.TAKT ANPACE FOUR.
The Campus AnvilAt the Theatres
'round soft drink
Fellowship in college or 
out of it flourishes best 
with good food and wholesome drink. Ice-cold 
Bevo unexcelled among 
beverages in purity and 
healthfulnessis most 
satisfying as a drink by 
itself or a relish with 
food that makes a hap
pier repast.
WRIGLEYS
flavors (ike the 
pyramids of Egypt?
Because they are 
long-tasting.
find WRIGLEYS is a beneficial 
as well as long-lasting treat.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS
It helps appetite and digestion, 
keeps teeth clean and breath 
sweet, allays thirst.
CHEW IT AFTER EUERY MEAL
Sealed Tight 
s Kept Right
PlttDN'B "ELDflURADO'*" the master dra
Put pep into your pencil work. Use a 
smooth, long-lasting responsive lead 
thateasesandquickens yourpencil tasks 
and makes them more pleasurable 
I iVAot:
A
NY tobacco tv try fd/uicco\iui\fiti better in si VV D C 
. Pipe. Our own specially seasoned anil cardfully selected 
French briar makes it TH Add to thin the suporcraftb'manship of the Dumutli workers, and you'll not wonder that we 
claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any 
lood dealer.
NEW GLADCU BW SPWW FLN TPRO
WOR LU'fi L A n O K fl T MAKERS Otf FINE PIPES
ComitemNiE ADSoneJoreuety need or preference - - 
~lfie master'drau>npend
SOLD liY GOOD STATIONERSAT SCHOOL AND IN TOWN
: STUDENTS WELCOME ;
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
:e Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Evening Wear Accessories.
Also Complet 
Alberts, etc.GREAT EATS AT 
THE S0HENLEY LUNOH FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED STJDDABY, Proprietor
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
HIRE YOUR FULL DRESS SUIT "LESS THAN 
DOWN PRICES AT
HEIMERTS 
OAKLANDS MENS WEAR SHOP
IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND. 
EVERYTHING COMPLETE IN MENS WEAR LINE 
AT  PRICES  LOW
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LE88ON6
JACQUES DANCING 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLA88 AND PRIVATE
BELL PHONE
^8syiiiiuutuiiiiiuiiiuiuiJuiiiu]iiiiiiii]ftii{tiiiiiiiiti(iiiiiiuiifiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiifBiiuiiiiiuiisTHE GRAFF COBATTERY
"Exde1
SERVICE
C. M. SfauffRANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
auiiMuiinuniltimiiinuiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiiiitimiiiiiiiiiinmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiinimiiiiimiiiiiiiiumiiiiiiMimnitmniHiuntmiiuiDiuuKiiiuiiiuiimiuiinuiiiimiiHimuiyiuitiisiv
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH &. PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pens.
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllill!lllllillHIIIIII|llllll|[)l|l|||||f
The Joy of Winter Swimming
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our lending social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Mo*t people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time" but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up" life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. There's a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be nad in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotorium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
