TARTAN
Volume 66Number 18Wednesday, February 22, 1967
Local Leaders Unite 
To Save Italian Art
A fund-raising drive to help finance the restoration of 
priceless works of art damaged by floods in Florence, Italy, 
last November 3 and 4, is currently being conducted at Car
negie Tech under the auspices of the Pittsburgh chapter of 
the Committee to Rescue Italian Art (CRIA).
The local drive is in support 
of the national CRIA, headed 
by Mrs. John F. Kennedy, widow 
of the late president. The CRIA 
is appealing for funds to save, 
repair and restore a large num
ber of precious paintings, man
uscripts, ancient archives, and 
buildings damaged by mud, oil, 
and water in the Italian disaster.
Slide Shows Damage 
A slide presentation, illustrat
ing the extent of the destruction, 
will be shown tomorrow at 4:30 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom, by 
Cwens, sophomore womens acti
vities activies honorary, which 
has undertaken the direction of 
the campus fund drive. All stu
dents, faculty, and administra
tors are urged to attend. The 
slide presentation will be made 
available by Cwens for private 
showings by any interested cam
pus organization or class on re
quest.
See Editorial  Page 4
Cornell Vietnam Conference 
Attacks Johnsons Policies
To collect contributions and 
to disseminate information, 
booths will be established to
morrow in the front lobbies of 
Baker and Doherty Halls and 
in Skibo lobby by Cwens, aid(Continued on Page 4)
Dorms Submit Request 
For Biweekly Open House
Mens Dorm Council is asking The Division of Student 
Affairs to allow open house in the mens dorms every 
other Sunday from 2 to 5 pm.
The open houses would be operated under an open-door 
policya resident could entertain female visitors in his 
room during the prescribed hours, but would have to leave 
his door a jar.
Life MagazineDavid Lees c. 1966, Time, Inc.
Mud-bathed Santa Croce Cathedral floor is only part 
of $32 million damage.
Local Students Coordinate 
For National Viet Protest
* Nearly 100 students and faculty from colleges, uni
versities, and high schools in the Pittsburgh area have, dur
ing the past two weeks, formed a coordination committee 
to plan local Spring Student Action against the war in VietnamThis will be Pittsburghs part
in the National Student Action 
(April 8-15), called for in a con
ference held in Chicago over 
Christmas, at which over 250 uni
versities and colleges were rep
resented. Tech students on the 
committee in Pittsburgh include 
Camille Badzgon, Ellen Bergman, 
Glenn Grannemann, Sandra Hoffberger, and Bill Vandivier.
Faculty Complains 
About Skibo Too
It seems that complaints in the 
general category of Food Prob
lems come from the faculty as 
well as from students.
The minutes of the December 
15, 1966 meeting of the facultys 
Executive Committee show that 
Prof. Anton J. Streiff, Assistant 
Head of the Chemistry Depart
ment, commented on a memo to 
Mr. J. L. Hicks about the prob
lems of Food Services.
The minutes continued, Com
plaints in the memo centered 
heavily on the problems of de
cor and noise in the Faculty 
Dining Room.
The problem is now being inves
tigated by Mr. R. D. Strathmeyer, 
Vice-President for Business Afairs.
Coffee House Closed
The House of the Rising Sun 
coffee house will not be open this 
Friday night, as most of the mus
icians will be at the Villanova 
Jazz Festival. The snack Bar will 
stay open late as usual.
A similar request was refused 
last year because of the bedroom 
situation in the dorms. Mens 
sleeping quarters are not in 
rooms separate from the living 
quarters. A Carnegie Tech regu
lation says a student cannot en
tertain visitors of the opposite 
sex in his dorm room unless he 
has a separate bedroom.
This year, MDC conducted a 
poll of dorm men to back up 
its request. Ninety-six per cent 
of the response was favorable, 
of 417 men polled, 400 favored 
open house, 12 were against 
it, and five were indifferent. 
Results of the poll were an
nounced at last weeks MDC 
meeting.
New Court Policies 
At this same meeting, several 
changes were made in MDC court 
policy. Eugene Milich, assistant 
(Continued, on Page 2)
WRCT announces: 
OPEN THE GATES

Monday-Friday, 7:30-10 a.m. 
Sunday, 9-11 a.m.

Contemporary Music 

Announcers 
JOHN C. GATES  J. BLAIR 
AL BRADY  JEFF LANE
Speakers, Art Forms Used
So far the committee has de
cided upon a program expressing 
through speakers and all forms 
of the arts the anti-war theme. 
This program, which will be held 
at the Pitt Field House on April
8, will include music (choral, 
folk, jazz . . .) dance, drama, and 
art. The committee had discuss
ed the possibility of something 
on the order of the recent Angry 
Arts Festival in New York. Inter
ested people are really needed to 
work in all of these areas.
The committee has also drawn 
up an ad to be printed in one of 
the Pittsburgh papers. This ad 
reads:
The legality and morality of 
the war in Vietnam are not 
only highly questionable, but a 
sincere committment of our 
government to seek a negoti
ated settlement seems to us to 
be absent.
(Continued on Page il)
Stolen Tartans
If you didnt get a Tartan last 
week it was because: 1) The pa
per was three hours late due to a 
mix-up with photographs, and 2) 
Members of the Drama Depart
ment misappropriated over 600 
undistributed copies for papiermache for a stage set.
Resolution Labels 
U. S* Aggressor
The majority resolution 
passed by the National Stu
dent Conference on Vietnam 
attacks the United States 
policy in Vietnam, and also 
brands the U.S. as the ag
gressor in that conflict.
The resolution, originally pro
posed by delegates from several 
schools, including Harper, West
ern Reserve, Columbia, U. of 
Pennsylvania, Sarah Lawrence, 
Haverford, Barnard, Cornell, Mt. 
Holyoke, Colgate, and Eastern 
Michigan, was passed at 4:30 
Sunday morning, after a lengthy 
floor fight and caucusing in the 
conference assembly.
It also condemns the activ
ity of the government in Amer
ican universities, such as the 
infiltration of the National Stu
dent Association by the Central 
Intelligence Agency; the use of 
class rank as a criterion for 
obtaining a student draft defer
ment; and the existence of re
search programs on chemical 
and biological warfare on cam
puses. Finally, the resolution 
(Continued on Page 4)
Discussion, Debate 
Highlight Meeting
The first National Student 
Conference on Vietnam met 
for four days at Cornell Uni
versity last week, attended 
by 150 delegates from 45 
schools, including three rep
resentatives fdom Carnegie 
Tech: Joe Orens, student 
body President; Lloyd Patross, Vice-President of the 
student body, and Richard 
Sextro, editor of the Tartan.
The conference began on Wed
nesday, Feb. 15, and continued 
until the early morning hours of 
Sunday, Feb. 20. During this 
time the delegates heard speech
es by both proand anti-war 
speakers, attended at least one 
discussion group a day, attended 
meetings of the entire assembly 
of delegates, caucused, formul
ated resolutions, and when given 
the opportunity, even slept.
The conference, sponsored by 
the Student Government at Cor
nell, was intended to serve as a 
forum for learning, discussion 
and debate over the United States 
policy in Vietnam. While the conPT*?!
Photo courtesy Cornell Daily Sun
Sextro speaks for Carnegie Tech delegation at 
Cornells Vietnam Conference.
ference was termed as represen
tative of student opinion in the 
U.S., it became clear that many 
had not come with open minds, 
nor unbiased views. Basically, the 
general consensus was somewhat 
left of center, although many 
students were moderate, or neu
tral in their views. Very few stu
dents, even those belonging to 
the Tightest Young Americans for 
Freedom (YAF) were in com
plete agreement with the John
son administrations policies.
Of the ten speakers heard at 
the conference, three could ac
tually be termed as pro-war," 
althuogh the conference com
mittee attempted to obtain 
speakers such as William Buck
ley and John Roche, special 
consultant to President John
son. They tended to address 
themselves to one or more 
(Continued on Page 10)
Spring Ball 
Plans Begin
This year Carnegie Techs ROTC 
Honorary, Castle & Flag, is spon
soring an all-school formal, rath
er than holding its traditional 
Military Ball. It is to be held 
Friday, April 7, in the ballroom 
at Syria Mosque. The 12 Tech fra
ternities and Mens Dorm Coun
cil have each been asked to se
lect a candidate for Queen by 
March 10. The Queen and her 
three runners-up will be elected 
on a stricUy all-school basis dur
ing the week previous to the ball. 
The only requirement is that the 
candidates must be enrolled as stu
dents at Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 22, 1967
Through The Looking Glass . ..
Night of the Generals
and
An Elegy For A Duck
by Timothy Bay
The Night of the Generals, based on a novel by Hans Hellmut, is 
a suspenseful, highly intricate murder mystery involving the appre
hension of a vicious sex murderer.
Behind the fictitious story of the manhunt for this latter-day 
Jack-the-Ripper, there is the real life tragic-comic back drop of 
the abortive 1944 attempt to assassinate Hitler.
The film opens in a tenement in Nazi-occupied Warsaw. Screams 
are heard, and we see one o the tenants squinting through a crack 
in the door of the toilet where he is hiding. Through the crack, he 
can see only the legs of the murderer who is emerging from the 
now silent room, but the man is frightened by what he sees, from 
the trouser leg of the murderers uniform is the red stripe of a 
German general.
Intelligence officer Grau (Omar Shariff), called upon to 
investigate this brutal murder, is determined, despite the insig
nificance of the woman and the vastness of the wholesale kill
ing of the war around him, to capture the murderer.
Grau finally does trap the murderer, General Tanz (Peter 
OToole), only to be killed himself. Retribution comes for Tanz long 
after the war; confronted by the evidence, he commits suicide rather 
than face trial.
Thrown into the bargain with this straight-forward who-doneil plot, there is the obligatory Hollywood love affair; the whole 
tragic episode of the 1944 German generals plot against Hitler; and 
some rather obviousalthough much neededsatirical swipes at 
the complacency and wealth of Post-War Germany. Despite some 
really trite dialogue and poor, miscast acting, the director, Anatole 
Litvak, made good use of over-lapping dialogue and slick editing 
(Continued on Page 9)
KIl * SILVERS JAf R GILf0RD, BlMR KEAT0N
"A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM"
MICHAEL CRAWFORD / MICHAEL HORDERN MttVIN (RANK MtCHAfL PfRlWFf
E> >5 ko*thr siipoducrtnHAROtD S PRINCE SIfPHfN SONOHflM C.r,BURT SHtVflOVf i HRRYCflB!
I FRAN* o.-RICHARD IfSUR ... UNITED ARTISTS SUGGCSTCO (OR MATURE AUDIENCES
4th WEEK
Film Arts Society 
BECAUSE OF ITS UNUSUAL LENGTH,
THE FILM
hamlet
WILL BE SHOWN AT
4:30
7:15
10:00
ON FEBRUARY 23rd
Film Arts Society 
Former WRCT Program Director 
Calls For Closing of Station
Barry W. Comet, former program manager of radio station WRCT, has called for immediate 
closing of the station to facilitate necessary reorganization, restaffing, and repairing.
Cornet, fired from his position at WRCT last semester, proposed this action in a heavily-docu
mented 14-page report to the Student Senates ad-hoc committee for investigating WRCT. Most of the 1 
report is devoted to telling why he thinks the station needs to be reorganized, restaffed, and repaired.
The station is physically in a state of disrepair, according to the report, and the program
ming schedule is decrepit as the physical plant.
The continual state of disrepair of the stations equipment, says Cornet, seems due to 
the members' desire to fondle with it rather than use it to put shows on ... a piece of equipment is 
more likely to be taken apart than put together. The present engineering staff is playing with a 
very expensive electronic toy.
Cornet proposes putting the 
technical department of WRCT 
under the direction of technical 
pi'oduction majors from the dra
ma department, whose job is to 
run the equipment to get a show 
on.
To back up his argument that 
the WRCT programming is de
crepit, Cornet takes up six 
pages of his report with a showby-show comparison between the 
present program schedule and 
the former program schedule un
der his tenure. Comet told the 
Tartan that one of the General 
Managers biggest complaints to 
me when I was Program Director 
was when are you going to get 
more shows? but now they only 
have half as many shows as they 
had before . . . and they dont 
have one show that I didnt 
have.
Charging that the intelligence 
of the student body is being 
gross-ly underestimated, he calls
the station little more than a 
social club whose narrow field of 
interest encompasses rock and 
roll, jazz, and KQV-FM. Comet 
says the station could be a cen
ter of communication. . . . For 
the first time, faculty, students, 
and administration would be 
working together PUBLICLY . . . 
such an alliance need not be dry, 
dull, or uninteresting. He cited 
some of his former shows, which 
included drama and poetry pre
sentations, and such guests as 
Dean Rice of Fine Arts and Dean 
Mullins of Engineering and Sci
ence.
Under the heading Why the 
Station Is the Way It is, Cornet 
says, The management of WRCT 
io using its facilities not as a 
means for creative enjoyment, 
but as an escape . . . (those) who 
use the station to escape from 
the world frighten away those 
who wish to face it and deal 
with it.
"BEST FILM OF 1966!
National Society ol Film Critics 
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonionis
BLOW-UP
Vanessa Redgrave
David Hemmings  Sarah Miles
COLOR
Recommended for 
mature audiences
A Premier Productions Co., Inc. Release
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
SAT. EYE. - MAR. 4 - 8:30
AN EVENING WITH
mm THEODORE K
_______ Dynrn> - talk itnr
Special for Tech Faculty & Student*  Tickets at 2 FOR THE 
PRICE OF 1. Best Orchestra or 1st Balcony 5.95Phone Order 
Only: 921-8991.
orn elVlita
jmfctA elacksJtchs
For the second time in 
three weeks, the Association 
of Women Students has re
jected a letter of resignation 
from its president, Marilyn 
Blitz. <
In her letter, presented before 
AWS last Monday, Feb. 13, Miss 
Blitz asked to be relieved of her 
office because of various person
al reasons. The representatives of 
AWS refused to accept her resig
nation.
She had previously attempted 
to resign at the first meeting of 
the semester, Wednesday, Feb. 1, 
but her resignation was rejected 
then also.
A meeting was called Monday, 
Feb. 6, to reconsider the matter, 
but it could not be voted on then 
because only three AWS repre
sentatives attended the meeting. 
The rest of the representatives 
boycotted the meeting in favor of 
Miss Blitz.Dorms Request
(Continued from Page 1) 
Dean of Men, announced the 
MDC court decisions not involv
ing suspension from Tech no 
longer need approval from the 
Division of Student Affairs. De
fendants may still appeal to Stu
dent Affairs, but MDC decisions 
will now be immediately effec
tive unless appealed.
Dan Whitehead, MDC secre
tary, predicts this new proce
dure will cut about one week of! 
the time required for processing 
each case. Presumably, the new 
policy would have been effective 
in the recent Welch Hall case.
Decisions Made Public
Also, MDC has decided that 
the results of all trials will now 
be made public, and that any 
student violating court probation 
will be retried and possibly 
thrown out of the dorms.
Stanley
WarnerSTRAND
StWN Avi Sflli)'.'!'*)&:> "narts
nu sueniiG cm*
and
PERFECTION ...A FLAWLESS FILM!"
SEWCEONAWET 
AFTERNOON
No Admission Aller Stiri ol feature'n

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 22, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 3
Everytihng Including the Erotic Pottery . . .
Richard Lesters
A Funny Thing Happened 
On the Way to the Forum
by Stan Thomas
The opening song, Comedy Tonight, makes enough promises 
for at least a dozen musical comedies, but the wonder of it all is 
that Forum manages to fulfill every one of them with a pastiche 
of Roman comedy, American burlesque, and Richard Lester sight 
gags. A Funny Thing: Happened on the Way to the Forum is furfny 
indeed and perhaps one of the grandest entertainments to come 
along in some time.
The film stars a triumvirate of comedians and features one of 
the great American comedians, Buster Keaton. The triumvirate is 
comprised of Zero Mostel, Phil Silvers, and Jack Gilford. Zero Mostel created the role of Psuedalus on Broadway, but because Mostel 
is a stage actor and larger than life, his performance in the film 
is a little like watching the Macy Christmas parade on television: 
all those balloons are pretty meaningless because the camera is al
ways too close or too far away. In trying to adjust, the stage giant 
Mostel to the wide screen, Lester has relied on editing that often 
ties a comic line into a knot, defeating the purpose of the performance.
Phil Silvers, a veteran of television, mixes his portrayal 
of Lychus the procurer with several parts Bilko and quite a 
bit of Top Banana. Silvers is right at home in his house in Rome. 
Jack Gilford is a delight as the high strung Hysterium, slave 
in chief, although I regret his sole turn, calm has not been 
included.
The plot line is surprisingly simple: a young man of good fam
ily falls in love with a virgin who has been sold to a Roman cap
tain who is on his way to claim her. From this, plots and counter
plots develop until the whole affair reaches its climax at a sit-down 
crgy for 40. The denouncement is well handledmuch better than 
in any authentic Roman comedy Ive come acrossand everyone 
lives happily ever afterof course.
Richard Lester could not resist having fun with two of Holly
woods favorite forms of extravaganza: the costume epic that was 
usually located in first century Rome and the musical. His Rome 
is a crowded, noisy, dirty, city planners nightmare full of horse
flies and people going on about their business, seemingly unaware 
that a film is being made in their midst. The film was shot in 
Spain on the set that Samuel Bronson had built for his Roman epic, 
The Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire. Its so nice to see a livedin Rome. The production was designed by Tony Walton. While the 
musical numbers have all the imagination that Lester brought to 
the Beatles films, they seem to lack the spontaneity and energy that 
the Beatles provided in Hard Days Night and Help! However, a 
shot of Mostel, Silvers, Gilford, and Michael Hordern, who plays the 
heros father singing Everybody Ought to Have a Maid along the 
top of an aqueduct, is a stroke of genius. Some of the slapstick dur
ing Lovely is not.
Personally, I found Forum a bit of a disappointment. I kept 
thinking that after The Knack it should have been better. The 
problem with the film is expressed in one of the final bits: A 
chariot race involving the entire cast of principals. Its not very 
watching with his stone face not unlike one of the Roman gods 
whose statues populate the city. In Keatons day a chase meant 
something, here it is only an emebllishment.
This is not to mean you wont enjoy Forum, you will. The 
Forum Theater is where A Funny Thing is happening.
ATTENTION MEN UNDER 25
nlstP 7sa9Jsil h55la 
-13 Hcaih9st th aJ5l HcOla
By completing a simple twenty-minute questionnaire, 
you may save up to $50 . . . maybe more ... on Sentry 
auto insurance. And this is in addition to Sentrys 15% 
discount for Driver Training! Register now for the Sentry 
Preferred Youthful Driver Exam. Call or drop a card to
me today. PAN DONAHUE
5702 Hilltop Avanu*
795-1393
fi loot CM 
*SENTRY-Xl INSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals  Sentry Life
NEED MONEY!
We buy used Cameras, 
Typewriters and Projectors
Sellers age must be 21CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue Phone 683-2181
R9al9I oHHa 
ZlsiN TJcstcska
The Carnegie Institute Art 
Museum has acquired two 
important French paintings 
through the Sarah Mellon 
Scaife Family.
Dancers, Entrance on Stage, 
painted by Degas around 1906 to 
1908, is a pastel of a balett scene'. 
Considered along with Cezanne 
to be the outstanding artist of the 
lc.te 19th century, Degas painted 
various subjects, but is perhaps 
best known for ballet scenes such 
as this one.
Place des Lices, St. Tropez was 
painted by Paul Signac after the 
death of Georges Sourat, who in
fluenced his work greatly. Both 
men have been called Pointillists, 
although they preferred the title 
of Neo-Impressionists. Their work 
iiATolves many small dots of col
or placed side by side to achieve 
greater tonal brilliance. Place des 
Liccs, St. Tropez is one of Sig
nacs most successful applica
tions of this Neo-Impressionist 
ti chnique.
LJH ZcsJsila oJsklH :hD
All day graduate students will 
be required to report to the Of
fice of the Cashier, Warner Hall
12, on Feb. 22, 23, or 24 to ob
tain an appropriate fellowship 
authorization and cards upon 
which correct fees have been en
tered. Completion of financial set
tlement must be made within 
the three days specified. Late 
registration penalities will be 
imposed for failure to complete 
the academic portion of registra
tion on Jan. 30 and 31 and/or 
the financial arrangements by 
Feb. 24.
RAYTHEON 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 3
Openings for
BS, MS, and PHD Candidates in 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING 
MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS
For work in
RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT 
DESIGN 
MANUFACTURING
Sign up for interviews through your 
Placement Office, or write Manager 
of College Relations, Raytheon Co., 
141 Spring Street, 
Lexington, Massachusetts 02173.
EXCELLENCE IN ELECTRONICS
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 22, 1967
Editorial . . .
Student Help Needed
The mud and oil laden flood waters of the Arno River, 
which inundated the city of Florence, Italy, last November 
3 and 4, left in their wake a path of decimation and destruc
tion : a tragically large number of precious paintings, books, 
manuscripts, and ancient archives suffered untold damage 
in the maelstrom of the raging waters.
The task of salvaging and restoring these works is of 
tremendous dimensions. Each damaged volume, for exam
ple, after it has been pulled from the accumulated mud and 
slime left by the flood waters, must be cleansed of the dirt 
and fuel oil which was flooded out of storage tanks and 
spread throughout the city, and then each leaf must be inter
foliated with blotting paper. There are over two million 
volumes which must undergo this tedious treatment, and, 
if they are not swiftly restored, many of them may be perm
anently lost.
Equally painstaking is the care with which the moro 
than one thousand damaged paintings must be restored. 
Giant humidifiers, rushed to Florence from all over Europe, 
serve to keep the paintings in an atmosphere of 100% hu
midity; they have been disinfected to prohibit the growth 
of destructive molds. While maintained under these condi
tions, the paintings must be dried out very gradually before 
they can be cleaned. If the rate of drying is not uniform 
and slow, the paint and wood will be ruined.
These are only two aspects of a job of mammoth 
proportions. Buildings, monuments, frescoes, musical in
struments, all require assiduous, tedious, and exacting 
toil.
And the task must be accomplished as well and as 
comprehensively as is possible, for this disaster has striken at a major portion of the cultural heritage, not only 
of Italy, but of all nations; its thrust was aimed at the 
cultural inheritance, not only of this, but of future gener
ations. To rescue these magnificent works of art from 
disaster which threatens to destroy them is of vital im
portance to us all.
Numerous nations have responded generously and zeal
ously by supplying the services of experts and rendering 
available various forms of equipment essential to the work 
of restoration. Scholars in this country have formed the 
Committee to Rescue Italian Art (CRIA), with headquart
ers in New York and with over fifty local chapters across 
the United States. It is the intention of the CRIA to raise 
funds for the restoration of the city of Florence. Mrs. John 
F. Kennedy is honorary chairman of the campaign, which 
is to continue beyond next month.
Of the $32 million requisite for the salvaging, the CRIA 
has already raised over $2.5 million. Among its first proj
ects, the CRIA pledged $60,000 to repair two Florentine 
buildings of overshadowing importance: the Pazzi Chapel 
and its adjacent cloister of Santa Croce, which were among 
the most severely damaged of the churches, none of which 
remained unscathed. The chapel and cloister were submerg
ed in 22 feet of water, mud, and crude oil, which stained 
heavily the white walls and dark gray pilasters.
Locally, the Pittsburgh chapter of the CRIA, chaired 
by Professor Howard Saalman of the Carnegie Tech depart
ment of architecture is conducting a fund raising campaign 
in this area, and on campus, a drive, beginning tomorrow, 
will be directed for the CRIA by Cwens, sophomore womens 
activities honorary. The Tartan extends a vote of commen
dation and thanks to the CRIA, Cwens, and APhiO, which 
is assisting in the promulgation of the drive, for their val
uable efforts to help rescue the Italian art.
The students have already begun to respond to the ap
peal of the fund drive: Joseph H. Orens, senior in electrical 
engineering, and president of the student body, stated re
cently, the Student Government, recognizing the import
ance of the work of restoration, places its wholehearted sup
port behind the CRIA and Cwens, and encourages all mem
bers of the Carnegie Tech community to respond with gen
erous donations.
The Tartan, too, urges enthusiastic support of the fund
raisers, for their appeal is one made in desperation: The 
cost of salvaging operations is of an enormous magnitude, 
yet, to attenuate the number of works which may suffer 
permanent damage, the repairs must be carried out as soon 
as possible.
Faculty members and student leaders have the oppor
tunity to promote interest among the students by showing, 
organizations, a slide presentation, available on request from 
in the classroom and lecture hall, and at meetings of student 
Cwens, which illustrates the vast extent of the damage.
Finally, the Tartan calls on students, faculty adminis 
trators, and staff to donate generously at the booths in 
Baker Hall, Doherty Hall, and Skibo, to help rescue this 
vital part of Western heritage.
Western Art Heritage Endangered
warn
Life MagazineDavid Lees c. 1966, Time, Ine.
Before-after sequence shows virtually complete destruction of Crucifix in Croce Museum.
(Continued from Page 1 )
ed by APhiO. They will be in 
operation through the early 
part of next week.
The Carnegie Tech drama de
partment, cooperating with the 
CRIA, is slated to present a pub
lic preview and benefit perfor
mance this Friday of Shakes
peares The Merchant of Venice, 
the departments fourth mainstage production of the year. Tic
kets may be obtained by writing 
c/o CRIA, Inc., Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh, 
Pa., 15213, and enclosing a min
imum donation of $5 for each 
seat requested. The performance 
will be followed by a reception 
to permit the audience to meet 
the cast.
The art works suffered damage 
when the city of Florence was 
inundated last Nov. by the wa
ters of the Arno River, which 
rose rapidly after two days of 
autumn rains. Some 50,000 
ancient volumes, as well as some 
two million in the Biblioteca Nazionale, the largest and most im
portant public library in Italy, 
were covered with mud and oil. 
Over 1000 paintings, also dam
aged severly by the flood wa
ters, are now lying in the art 
hospital created in the Boboli 
Gsrdens in Florence, where they 
are sealed off and kept at 100 
per cent humidity. They have 
been disinfected to prevent the 
growth of destruction molds, and 
must be dried out very gradually, 
ever a period of six months or 
more.
Damage In Millions
Among buildings and monu
ments, the hardest hit were the 
cloisters of Santa Croce: the Re
fectory museum, was submerged 
under 18 feet of water. The fam
ous 13th century Crucifix of Cimabue was 70 per cent destroyed, 
and the Babistry, with the wellknown bronze doors of Ghiberti 
and Pisano suffered possibly 
lasting damage. The cost of sal
vaging the damaged works, was 
estimated by Time magazine last 
Nov. 25 to be $32 million.
Dozens of countries, including 
the United States, England, Ger
many, Holland, Switzerland, Ja
pan, and the Soviet Union, have 
offered the services of experts 
for the restoration of paintings, 
books, and museum materials, 
and an army of European stu
dents has flocked to Florence to 
aid in the work of removing the 
damaged manuscripts form mud 
and slime. Supervising the ad
ministration of the American 
funds is Professor Millard Meiss, 
in residence at the Villa I Tatti, 
location of the Harvard Univer
sity Center for Italian Renais
sance Studies.
The Pittsburgh chapter of 
the CRIA, chaired by Dr. 
Howard Saalman, associate 
professor of the history of 
architecture at Carnegie Tech, 
who expects to go to Florence 
next summer to assist in the 
salvaging work, is one of over 
50 such local committees of 
the national organization, 
which has already raised over
carnegie techTARTAIM
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-ChiefExecutive Editor............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor........................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.......................................................................BRUCE GELINNews Editor.................................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..................................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager.......................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager..........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ...............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor..........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Circulation Managers....Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara JOHN
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Badzgon, Chipper Monk
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausler, Patti lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Ginny 
McKelvy, Harriet Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, 
Jane Merk.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
OFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 1521JPhone 682-4557.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
S2.5 million.
With Dr. Saalman, the Pitts
burgh committee includes U. S. 
Rep. William S. Moorhead; Pitts
burgh artist Virgil Cantini; The 
Rev. Hugh S. Clark of the Church 
cf the Redeemer; Professor Wil
liam C. Loerke, University of 
Pittsburgh Art historian; Law
rence Carra, professor of drama 
at Carnegie Tech; Paul. Schweikher, head of the Carnegie Tech 
department of architecture; Nor
man Rice, dean of the Carnegie 
Tech College of Fine Arts; and 
Professor Walter R. Hovey, head 
oi the Frick Fine Arts Library, 
University of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Saalman has announced 
that tax-deductible contributions 
to aid in saving the Florentine 
art may be mailed c/o CRIA, 
Inc., Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Ior further information please 
contact Dr. Saalman in the archi
tecture department, or Marianne 
W. Wisdom at MG518E.
Conference 
Resolutions
(Continued from Page 1)
calls for a prompt cessation of 
bombing in Vietnam, and an 
immediate cease fire by the 
U.S.; the recognition of the Na
tional Liberation Front as an 
independent political force; and 
the withdrawal of U.S. troops 
coinciding with negotiations. 
Another majority resolution, not 
directly relating to the Vietnam 
war, was one calling for a revi
sion of U.S. policies in Thailand, 
in view of the increased insur
gency in Northern Thailand. It 
points out that 80 per cent of all 
bombing missions over Vietnam 
originate in Thailand, and that 
the U.S. should avoid another 
land war in Asia by decreasing 
the number of American troops 
there.
Two minority resolutions were 
passed, one dealing with the se
lective service system and one 
with Vietnam war. The latter 
was the opposing resolution to 
the majority resolution passed by 
the conference. Although it still 
called for an end to the war, the 
proposed resolution, drawn-up by 
delegates from Yale, Elmira, and 
Hamilton, was less vehement in 
its accusation of the U.S. and 
more realistic in the terms of a 
negotiated settlement.
The last minority resolution 
asked that the draft system be 
abolished and opposed use of 
class rank and the administra
tion of Selective Service Quali
fying Exams at schools.
These resolutions will be pub
lished next week in their entirety 
in the Tartan, along with infor
mation on a campus-wide refer-, 
endum sponsored by Student Gov
ernment, to ascertain campus 
opinion on the Vietnamese War.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 22, 1967CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN Page 5
-
<1<<>
LETTERS 1
<><><><>
<<?>*<>
rc
<?<> ?
rHE EDITOR<>
i:<<
<
FPF Statement 
Authors Own
Editor, The Tartan:
I write this letter in apology 
to the student body, and specifi
cally to the members and sup
porters of the Foreign Policy For
um.
In the Tartan, distributed on 
Feb. 15, apeared an article by me 
under the heading of a state
ment of the Foreign Policy For
um. This is not true. It is mere
ly the statement of one member 
of the Forum, myself. The Forum 
itself represents a wide variety of 
views opposing the War in Viet
nam and no article such as the 
one written could give a true ac
counting of these views. The arti
cle was written without the ap
proval of the FPF. I repeat: these 
were purely personal views of 
only one member of the Foreign 
Policy Forum and are not a 
statement of views of the FPF.
My article has cost the Forum 
much in the way of support; sup
port which did not deserve to be 
lost through the actions of only 
one member who does not even 
represent the views of a quorum 
of the members.
The moving fingerwrites, 
and having writ,
Moves on; nor all your 
piety nor wit 
Can lure it back to cancel 
half a line,
Nor all your tears wash 
out a word of it.
These words of Omar Khayam 
were meant to refer to spoken 
words, but all too often the written 
word cannot be forgotten either. 
Apologies such as these, however, 
are written in the hopes that my 
words can be forgotten.
It should be understood that the 
fault is entirely mine, and not due 
to any member of the Tartan.
Mark Kernes 
Chemistry 70
Tech Planners 
Are Women!
Editor, The Tartan:
After four years at Carnegie 
Tech, I have learned, among 
other things, that two things will 
forever be beyond human com
prehension  women and Tech 
planners. Why would anyone build 
a dorm with paper-thin walls? 
(My neighbor and I used to carry 
on conversations at normal voice 
level through the wall my 
freshman year in Hamerschlag 
Hall (House? Hole?).
Why would anyone build a stu
dent union like Skibo? Why would 
anyone stuff practically all the 
administration that the student 
is normally concerned with into 
one-half of a floor in a six-floored 
building? And why (this may 
seem like a minor point, but I 
happen to have a job of putting 
up posters) would anyone build 
an outside bulletin board with no
handles on the doors, nor a means 
of fastening the doors, while the 
posters are being put up??
I can think of only two answers. 
Either these facilities are not 
used by the students, or the Tech 
planners are women.
Kirby Neal 
Physics 67
February 15 thMemorial Date
Editor, The Tartan:
Would you please inform the 
students of your college why Feb. 
15 is a memorial date?
Following the sinking of the 
battleship, Maine, the Spanish 
American War followed.
Here are a few items taken 
from our Veterans paper.
Dates are always important 
in history. Every American knows 
that Columbus discovered Amer
ica on Oct. 12, 1492, and that Dec
laration of Independence was 
given to the world on July 4, 1776.
Another date, Feb. 15, 1898, lit
tle known to many Americans be
cause historians somehow over
look it or treat it lightly, but a 
date which set the United States 
of America on the road to be
come the world power it is today, 
is being remembered throughout 
the country and in far-off places 
all over the world by the United 
Spanish War Veterans of Foreign 
Wars who fought to free the now 
independent republic of Cuba.
It was 69 years ago, on Feb. 15, 
that the world was electrified 
with the announcement of the 
sinking in Havana harbor of the 
USS Maine with the loss of 266 
officers and men.
Mrs. Dora A. Mosier 
RD No 1 Box 138 
Smock, Pennsylvania 15480
Opinions Asked 
On Greek Power*
Editor, The Tartan:
Two recent Tartan stories and 
an editorial prompted me to write 
this letter.
On February 8 the paper re
ported that the plans for the High
lander Room had been rejected. 
The cost was far above the $20,-
000 considered acceptable by Dean 
Brown. The change also conflicted 
with a proposed but as yet un
scheduled addition to Skibo.
In another story on the open
ing of formal rush, the Tartan 
noted that Dean Swank said about 
$2 million of school money had 
been spent on fraternity housing.
Finally an editorial on Decem
ber 14 contained the following 
paragraph: (There is a) need for 
a lounge area where students can 
relax . . . and just feel at home 
at the school. The freshman and 
the independent dorm resident 
feel this need often should be; 
their social life is restricted by 
liquor laws, school and fraternity 
regulations, and a constant 
dearth of spending money. And 
I the commuter has a unique probI 1cm: he often feels totally alien
ated from campus life, like a 
transient; he has ... no place at 
Tech he can call home except 
his locker in Baker Hall.
Putting these three pieces to
gether leads me to ask if it was 
really necessary for Dean Swank 
to assure the Greeks that, I have 
devoted a major part of my con
cern for men students (as Dean 
of Men) to the fraternities (Tar
tan, Feb. 8). Hed have to in or
der to help administer the spend
ing of 100 times more money on 
them than the school seems will
ing to spend for others (that is 
$20,000 vs $2 million).
I admit th'is is exaggerated since 
the school spends a good deal on 
the dorms. But I wonder how well 
they measure up to the Deans 
estimate of the frat houses which 
he says provide . . . housing that 
(has) some measure of human 
dignity and warmth.
.But Greek Power may not be 
as strong as all this implies and 
the Highlander plan may indeed 
be bad in the long run so let me 
become less crusty by asking to 
hear the other side. I would be 
very interested to find out what 
Deans Swank and Brown, Prof. 
Young, frat men, dorm people and 
other independents think of what 
Ive said here.
Ed Kemper
Physics, 68
Hancock Dismissal 
Premature
Editor, The Tartan:
Pittsburghs attempt to develop 
a resident professional repertory 
theatre seems to have been judged 
prematurely with the recent de
cision of the Playhouse Board of 
Directors not to extend the con
tract of Artistic Director John 
Hancock. What will this mean for 
the future of a viable progressive 
theatre in Pittsburgh? Hancocks 
dismissal comes at a time when 
our experimental theatre is un
dergoing a critical test. The ori
ginal estimate of the time required 
for a transition from a commun
ity theatre to a solid professional 
theatre was three years; yet, by 
any calculation less than a year 
and a half has elapsed in the ex
periment. Hancock, himself, has 
had less than five and a half 
months and even that time was 
severely disrupted by financial 
and management problems.
The primary reason offered for 
the non-renewal of Hancocks con
tract has been declining box of
fice receipts. We wonder if this is 
not to be expected during a trans
ition of the kind to which the 
Playhouse nominally committed 
itself. Progressive changes take 
time to develop fresh new ideas 
in the playhouse program and
time to develop a new audience. 
The original estimate was three 
years; could it be that this pre
mature action represents second 
thoughts on the part of some of 
the Board members concerning 
the wisdom of expanding the ideas 
and clientel of the Playhouse?
Now is the time that decisions 
about Pittsburghs future theatri
cal policy are being made. It is 
essential that the Playhouse Di
rectors be aware of the new and 
growing audience which is will
ing to support progressive theatre 
in Pittsburgh. If you are a mem
ber of this new audience and 
are concerned about the continu
ance of progressive theatre in 
Pittsburgh you should write to 
Dr. Bernard Yadoff, 5521 Bartlett 
St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217, stating 
your opinion.
Robert McLean 
Richard W. Olschavsky
Experimentalists 
Offer Answers
Editor, The Tartan:
Concerning Tony Lawrences re
view of the Experimental Films, 
in the Feb. 15 Tartan:
a) Activity last Dec., not last 
summer.
b) Showing was held Wednes
day, not Thursday.
c) Films were advertised as ex
perimental and under ground; the 
first means any film which uses 
experimental techniques. Not sure 
what underground means; inde
pendently produced is a better 
term, but is not very descriptive; 
New American Cinema is pre
tentious. What would you call 
them?
d) Song of the. Prairie is a good 
example of Trnkas technique, 
which is unique. Its a parody, 
not a childrens film.
e) Three of the films, not five, 
were not shown. We have very 
little control over the Post Of
fice. Glad that you saw A in L.A., 
but you are probably in the min
ority. Sorry that you didnt like 
Eaux Dartifice, one of Angers 
better films. Wasnt a last minute 
choice, by the way; we moved it 
up from our April showing. Its 
very slow but fast pacing is not 
really the only criterion for judga film.
f) Were really not anonymous 
we appeared in person at the 
Experimental Film Group meet
ing Thursday. Im a graduate stu
dent in psychology, and one of the 
directors of the Second City Film 
Center (a 16mm distributor) and 
Aardvark Cinematheque (a 
film production and exhibition 
company) in Chicago. Steve Pokart is a graduate student in the 
drama department, and founded 
the Gate Theatre in New York, 
which is one of the two theatres 
Gate Theatre in New York, which 
regularly showing experimental 
(underground, etc.) films in that 
city.
g) We gave away over 200 pos
ters at the door, and had about
15 left at the end of the evening.
I still have a few, if youd like 
one. Programs are a pain, altho 
we can put one together if there 
is enough demand.
h) Quite a few people request
ed that we re-show Watermelons. 
Was perhaps a mistake, altho Iv 
seen it about 15 times, and 
wouldnt mind seeing it again. 
Nelson, incidentally, prefers his 
Plastic Haircut, which we will 
show in the near future.
i) Would be a shame if too 
many people take your advice 
and dont come to the next show
ing Nameths Upper U. S. is very 
very strange and very good; Balliess Tung is brilliant, as is 
Come Dance With Me. Most of 
the films have won festival 
awards, and at most two (Science 
Fiction and Trip to the Moon) 
have been shown before in Pitts
burgh. Probably the best of the 
programs so far. Hopefully the 
six showings in Porter 100 will 
result in less confusion than the 
Ballroom or Wherrett showings.
Jeff Begun, 
Experimental Film Group
Bogart Reviewer 
No Angel
Editor, The Tartan:
I believe that a newspaper 
which offers a reviewer or colum
nist in some area should at least 
insure that the columnist pos
sesses some degree of compe
tence in the field about which 
he is engaged to discuss.
I am referring, of course, to 
your motion picture reviewer, Mr. 
Tony Lawrence. In spite of the 
fact that he presents a somewhat 
dubious value judgment about 
the quality of the performances 
of one of our eras greatest ac
tors, which is his task as a re
viewer, I am inclined to view 
him without malice. Lets face it; 
Bosley Crowther he is not. How
ever, when he states a non-fact 
that is glaringly obvious to the 
most casual of observers, I feel 
that I must speak out, as a pub
lic service, to prevent this pro
pagation of ignorance.
I refer, of course, to the review 
of Alfie, in which this ill-inform? 
ed chap refers to Mr. Bogarts 
film as The Caine Mutiny. As 
any common Saturday afternoon 
matinee fan of the fifties would 
be quick to point out, Mr. Hum
phrey DeForest Bogart made six 
films between Mutiny in 1954 
and his untimely death on Jan
uary 14, 1957. They were, as most 
informed readers doubtless re
call, Sabrina, The Barefoot Contessa, Were No Angels, The Left 
Hand of God, The Desperate 
Hours, and, his actual final film, 
The Harder They Fall.
I do not recommend dismissal 
of this man, but he could stand 
some training. I would suggest 
he refer to Bogey, with an in
troduction by Baby. If he does 
not know who that is, I suggest 
his immediate replacement.
E. J. Gallagher 
J. T. Elliott, chairman 
Abel Salazar Fan Club 
and Bogart Afficando

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 22, 1967
PUZZLED ?
ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
INVESTIGATE PPC3 Chemicals
Then SOLVE IT YOURSELF
HORIZONTAL:
2. Selling and assisting customers in 
product use. Over 100 heavy in
dustrial chemical products.
4. Work entailing trouble-shooting, im
provement of existing facilities and 
management responsibility.
5. Exploration of both basic and applied 
proposals  5000 volume technical 
library.
6. Projects requiring full design and 
follow-through responsibility  de
centralized. thus broad diverse assign
ments.
DEGREES CONSIDERED: 
BS, MS, and PhD.
VERTICAL:
I. Duties include pilot plants, design ap
plications, cost estimating, economic 
studies, operations and laboratory.
3. Service to operating departments  
not limited to academic specializa
tion. including instrumentation, ma
chinery, and modification of existing 
facilities.
ChemicaJ Engineers, Mechanical Engineers, 
Civil Engineers, Electrical Engineers, 
Industrial Engineers, and Chemists.
INDUSTRIES
An Equal Opportunity Employer
YOUR 
PLACEMENT OFFICER
ON CAMPUS
MARCH 1
don temporary Commentary
California Sun
Last week this space was devoted to a discussion of the threat 
to learning by the rising multiversity. Colleges also face the danger 
that the encroachment of political power upon academic indepen
dence comes along with the growth of multiversities. The most strik
ing case is newly-inaugurated Gov. Ronald Reagans interference 
with the University of California.
Reagan was one of the 14 regents who voted last month to fire 
University President Clark Kerr during the crisis precipitated by tho 
governors proposed budget cut of 46 million dollars from last years 
240 million dollar college education expenditures. The firing of 
Kerr has aroused the antagonisms of the academic world, for Kerr 
has long been renowned for his contribution to the development of 
Californias unique and outstanding university system.
REAGAN HAS NOT ONLY PROPOSED a reduction of state 
lunds in his attempt to balance the budget, but he has also proposed 
a tuition of possibly 500 to 600 dollars per year and an increase in 
the faculty load. But most important of all, he has demonstrated 
the increasing temptation for politicians to attempt to manipulate 
the huge institutions within their financial grasp.
The California regent system is particularly susceptible to po
litical interference, since the 24-man board seats five active partisan 
politicians. In addition to the 16 appointed members, the board in
cludes the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the 
assembly, the state superintendent of public instruction, the presi
dent of the university alumni association, and the president of the 
university. Not only do the five politicians provide a nucleus for 
Reagan, but also, the 16-year terms of the appointed members tend 
to guarantee conservatism on the board.
Politicians within the circle of education have never been consi
dered a threat before now because they have usually been cham
pions of education.
THERE IS NOW CONSIDERABLE SCRAMBLING among col
lege faculty and administration to build some type of a breakwall 
against Reagans financial harassment. The California colleges pre
viously had an admission policy that any California resident who 
could meet the requirements of either the University of California 
or one of the junior colleges would be admitted. In response to 
Reagans budget cut, the junior colleges and U. of C. had shut down 
admissions prior to Kerrs dismissal, to guarantee the same stan
dard that had been maintained, thus forcing qualified California 
students to go out of state to college.
The most recent reaction to the budget cut has been that the 
Teachers Federation has threatened to strike in September. The or
ganization includes almost 2,000 of the universitys 8,800 faculty 
members. The sad lack of organization among the universitys thou
sands of moderate students and faculty has made it impossible for 
them to make an articulate demand for voice in university control. 
Ironically, if Kerr had not so decentralized the administration of the 
university to avoid the problems of bureaucracy, he might have been 
saved by a strong reaction from a tight-knit organization.
The University of California has already suffered considerable 
loss of prestige from Kerrs summary dismissal. It will take consider
able searching to find a man brave enough to fill Kerrs place and 
also, it will take a very courageous president of any public institution 
to take a stand contrary to political power, now that he has seen the 
guillotine fall once.
ThH9il EJfGa 
Ss B,MlcIlstJf 
ZcfI ThdflIa
Gordon Brown, an inde
pendent filmmaker, will
speak tonight at GSIA to
night on the various prob
lems of making experimen
tal, independent films. This 
talk starts at 8 pm in the 
GSIA auditorium.
Brown spent four years in the 
film industry in Pittsburgh and 
is now living in New York, where 
he works as a director and pro
duction manager on documen
taries and features while making 
his own independent films. His 
first film, Hills Like White Ele
phants, an adaptation of the Hem
ingway short story, was shown 
at the San Francisco Film Festi
val. Browns lecture on indepen
dent filmmaking will be in con
junction with the showing of his 
50-minute featurette, The Five of 
Us, at the Shadyside Theater.
The Five of Us was filmed in 
Pgh., with local talent. Three 
of the lead parts were done by 
Terry Evans and Bill Earl, both
Tech graduates, and Carol Robin
son, a former Tech drama stu
dent. It was written by Brown 
and concerns a depth study of 
tho interpersonal relationships 
existing among five individuals 
living off the fringes of a big uni
versity.
His is one of a group of five 
independently made films by 
young experimental filmmakers 
at the Shadyside in matinee 
showing. The films will be shown 
tomorrow and Friday, Feb. 23
(Continued on Page 9)
Residence of Distinction
ONE ROOM Kitchenette 
equipped, and bath, beauti
fully furnished  $155. up.
?
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very< 
attractively furnished, $275.1 
up.
? j 
Also  . . UNFURNISHED 1 j 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, j 
when available.
?
FAIRFAX HOTEL
4614 5* AVE. Phone: 621-4030

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 22, 1967CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN Page 7
OvX t&e 7tve% j4teqe*uf? ? V ?
StMe by JeffRuben
Donner Hall, a seemingly innocuous mens dorm, is the scene 
of many of the wildest bridge games on this or any other campus. 
At virtually all hours of the day and night, bridge players may be 
discovered in Donner Lounge, sacrificing bidding accuracy and 
playing skill for the sake of making rubbers. This weeks hand is 
a good example of Donner Hall Bridge.
North
S: K, J, 8, 7 
H: 5, 3 
D: Q, 9
C: 10, 9, 8, 5, 2
West East
S: Q, 10, 6 S: 9, 2
H: K, 6 H: A, 10, 9, 8, 7, 4, 2
D: J, 10, 6, 5, 3 D: A, 7, 4, 2
C: 7, 6, 4 C: Void
South
S: A, 5, 4, 3 
H: Q, J 
D: K, 8
C: A, K, Q, J, 3
(Continued on Page 10)
Bskcslla.
Meet
Boeing
gJIM9a 7stlOclDa RhsHJP tNh9kN rlHslaHJP RJiN v tNh9kN u
The many challenging aerospace programs at Boeing 
provide a dynamic career growth environment. Pick 
your spot in applied research, design, test, manufac
turing, service or facilities engineering, or computer 
technology. If you desire an advanced degree and 
qualify, Boeing will help you financially with its 
Graduate Study Program at leading universities near 
company facilities.
Visit your college placement office and schedule an 
interview with the Boeing representative. Boeing is 
an equal opportunity employer.
Divisions: Commercial Airplane  Missile and Information Systems  
Space  Supersonic Transport  Vertol  Wichita  Also, Boeing 
Scientific Research Laboratories
r
I
I
i
I
I
i
i
I
i
I
I
i
i
L
World Campus Afloat, Director of Admissions 
Chapman College
Oronge, California 92666
(Last) 
Campus address
(First)
Tel.
CifyStateZip
Pprmannnt addressTel.
CitvStateZin
Name of Schnnl
The Ryndam is of West German registry.
Present Status
Freshman ? 
Sophomore ?
Junior
Senior
Graduate
____F.
Age______
MECHANICAL ENGINEER SENIORS!
(Where do you think you're going?)
ARE YOU GOING TO A WELL-PAID JOB
to start your post-grad career?
WANT RAPID ADVANCEMENT? Assumption of Big Responsibility early in life? And, at the same time,
do you want to join a company having interest in your individual welfare and security.
If you are interested in a dynamic, rapidly-paced industry, then perhaps Limbach Company in the 
Mechanical Construction field is the answer to your career goals.
With headquarters and one of our four shops right here in Pittsburgh, Limbach is nationally known. 
We have more than doubled -'ur size in the past seven years, offering speedy growth to the men who 
have joined our engineering forces. Big enough to provide opportunity, we are still small enough* to 
permit your worth to show.
Each year a few engineers graduating with mechanical (or civil) degrees join our Engineer-In-Training 
Program. Over a three-year period of intensive on-the-job training, work and earning, our men learn 
this rewarding business. Technical, Administrative and, eventually, Supervising Management positions 
are our goal for such Engineers.
Are they YOUR goals?Should we get together?
Interviews on campus can be scheduled for Friday, March 17th
LIMBACH
company four gateway center Pittsburgh, pa. 15222
*About 225 white collar employees (including Engineers) do a $40,000,000 annual volume.
Examining produce in an open-air marketplace in Lisbon is one way to broaden ones knowl
edge of the ways of the Portuguese people. These girls found exploring the markets of cities around 
the world a relaxing change from studies undertaken during a semester at sea on Chapman College's 
floating campusnow called World Campus Afloat.
Alzada Knickerbocker of Knoxville.Tennessee.in the plaid dress returned from the studytravel semester to complete her senior year in English at RadclifFe College.
Jan Knippers of Lawrenceburg. Tennessee, a graduate of the University of Tennessee, and a 
former Peace Corps Volunteer, first pursued graduate studies in International Relations and re
turned a second semester as a teaching assistant in Spanish on the world-circling campus.
Students live and attend regular classes aboard the s.s. RYNDAM, owned by the ECL Shipping 
Co. of Bremen for which the Holland-America Line acts as general passenger agent. In-port activi
ties are arranged to supplement courses taught aboard ship.
As you read this, the spring semester voyage of discovery is carrying 450 undergraduate and 
graduate students through the Panama Canal to call at ports in Venezuela. Brazil. Argentina, Nigeria. 
Senegal, Morocco, Spain. Portugal, The Netherlands. Denmark and Great Britain, returning to New 
York May 25.
Next fall World Campus Afloat Chapman College will take another 500 students around the 
world from New York to Los Angeles and in the spring, a new student body will journey from 
Los Angeles to ports on both west and east coasts of South America, in western and northern 
Europe and as far east as Leningrad before returning to New York.
For a catalog describing how you can include a semester aboard the RYNDAM in your educa
tional plans, fill in the information below and mail.
W RCT 
RECITAL HALL
1:30 p.m.Sundays
This week:
Brian Kovach's 
Senior Piano Recital
-SCOTTY'SOPETS TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 22, 1967
andMt
IF YOU WERE 
ID SELECT 
CHEMICAL 
PRODUCTS
with the best prospects 
for expanded applica
tions, you would include: 
plastics, synthetic rubber, 
agricultural chemicals 
and petroleum products. 
ENJAY is involved in all 
of these areas. It is a 
major supplier of a broad 
line including chemicals, 
elastomers, plastics and 
petroleum additives to a 
cross-section of Ameri
can industry. ENJAY raw 
materials are used in the 
formulation of such di
verse products as adhe
sives, food flavorings de
tergents, textiles, drugs, 
coatings and cosmetics.
PROFILE FOUSUCCESS IN THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
IF YOU 
MEASURE 
FACILITIES 
AND 
RESOURCES
to gauge the stature and 
growth potential of a 
company, you undoubt
edly look for the re
sources required to 
develop new products, 
produce them in suffi
cient quantities, and 
market them. ENJAY is 
the domestic affiliate cor
poration of Esso Chemi
cal Company, a world
wide manufacturer and 
marketer of chemicals. 
ENJAY has consistently 
expanded its develop
mental, manufacturing 
and distribution facilities 
to translate customer re
quirements into products. 
And through an intricate 
network of Suppiy Cen
ters and Sales Offices 
that span the country, 
ENJAY people put its 
products where and when 
its customers want them.
IF YOU LOOK 
FORA 
COMPANY 
PHILOSOPHY
most likely to provide the 
impetus for continuous 
growth and expansion, 
you examine the caliber 
and outlook of its man
agement. ENJAY man
agement has constantly 
implemented a youthful, 
progressive policy. The 
essence of this policy has 
been to satisfy the cus
tomers needs. Its direc
tion is based on a contin
uous appraisal of which 
products are needed to
day, and what tomorrows 
needs will be.
IF PAST 
PERFORMANCE 
IS AN 
INDICATION 
OF FUTURE 
SUCCESSES
ENJAY would rate high 
on any scale. Its contri
butions in the develop
ment of copolymers, 
butadiene, butylenes and 
butyl rubberand, in fact, 
with the founding of the 
petrochemical industry 
itself when it produced 
isopropyl alcohol from 
crude oil were earlier 
forerunners of more re
cent achievements. To
day, ENJAY is a major 
manufacturer and mar
keter of olefins, poly
olefins, diolefins and 
aromatics...of intermedi
ates for the surface coat
ings industry... of chem
icals for oil producers ... 
paramins, for fuels and 
lubricants. But customers 
look to ENJAY for more 
than the products they 
need. They depend on 
ENJAY technical sales 
representatives to pro
vide advanced technical 
data and assistance. They 
bring knotty production 
problems to ENJAY. And 
they look to the scientists 
in the ENJAY laboratories 
for the new products and 
new solutions that result 
from continuous basic 
research. Thats why 
ENJAY has, over the past 
several years, experi
enced a growth signifi
cantly greater than that of 
the chemical industry as 
a whole.
IF YOU WISH 
TO CHOOSE 
ONCE AND 
CHOOSE RIGHT
you can follow many 
precedents for building 
a lasting, satisfying 
career with ENJAY 
Chemical Company. 
ENJAY engineers tend to 
remain ENJAY people. 
They enjoy the progres
sive personnel relations 
policies of the company 
that pioneered many of 
todays most advanced 
personnel concepts. 
Whatever their individual 
interests, talents or goals, 
they find expression in 
the broad areas of 
ENJAYs own varied ac
tivities. The continuous 
growth of the company 
provides ample latitude 
for personal develop
ment. In a dynamic indus
try such as ours, the 
vistas are limited only by 
a companys ability to 
attract and develop out
standing potential lead
ers. Because ENJAY at
tracts many of the top scitists and engineers, the 
professional level is high, 
the atmosphere stimulat
ing, and the day-to-day 
work challenging.
Additional information may be obtained by writing:
ENJAY CHEMICAL COMPANY, An Affiliate of Esso Chemical Company, 60 west 49th street, New York, n.y. 10020
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 22, 1967CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN Page 9
RUGS S15 to $59
1000 9x120, 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 
etc. Also furniture discounts to 40%
. 5432 Walnut St.cYsJal a CorneClnV
10-9 p.m. * 621-1025
Gordon Brown at work.
Producer Talksd
(Continued from Page 6)
and 24, at 1:30 and 3:30 pm and 
on Saturday, Feb. 25, at noon. 
Student tickets for the two hour 
show will be $1; all others $1.25.
Other films being shown on 
this program are Intrusions, The 
Existentialist, Lambert and Co., 
and The Anatomy of Cindy Fink.
Brown will also do two critique 
discussions on Monday, Feb. 27, 
in the Drama department from 
4:30 to 6:30 pm and in the Graph
ic Arts department from 7 to 9 
pm._
UsHlkJHa ocH 7s TaPiN nt9Hcla
Joel Gordon, a junior mathe
matics major, has been selected 
by the Department of Psychology 
to participate in an undergrad
uate research program sponsored 
by the National Science Founda
tion. This program recognizes ex
ceptional students in Psychology 
and provides financial support 
for a research project conducted 
by the students under the guid
ance of a faculty member.
Mr. Gordon will be working 
v;;th Dr. James H. Korn on a 
project concerned with physiological aspects of emotional arousal.
Along with this film was also 
shown a Daffy Duck cartoon fea
ture. I regret to report that this 
new Daffy Duck is but a poor 
cousin to the old one of Max 
Fleischers Merrie Melodies days. 
He has lost all of his brashness, 
and his calculating madhouse an
tics have been completely toned 
down if not completely destroyed.
The new producers, De Patio 
and Freleng (Pink Panther), 
have modernized the cartoon 
in the worst sense of the word. 
The pace is toned down to a 
funeral speed, the landscape 
looks saccharine, and the hum
or is full of the graceless, sad
omasochistic delight in pain 
and torture that characterizes 
the Pink Panther series. It is 
too bad, for along with Bugs 
Bunny and a few other cartoon 
characters, Daffy Duck always 
seemed to me, as a child, to 
be a healthy antidote to the 
kind of loathsomely good-na^ 
tured horrors unleashed by 
Disney.
* * 
As a final note I would like to 
report that even at the fourth 
time around, Psycho, shown last 
week at Films Arts, holds up 
beautifully. Besides its obvious 
shock power, it also beautifully 
illustrates to me the unique area 
of Hitchcocks genius: his ability 
to infuse commonplace reality 
with unforeseen terror, and his 
virtuoso manipulation of audi
ences and their reactions. On the 
reverse side of the coin, it also 
illustrated his characteristic  
almost cynical  affinity for bad 
actors. However, as Norman Bates, 
v/ho took very seriously the ad
age that a boys best friend is 
his mother, Tony Perkins was 
frighteningly perfect.
The Night of the Qenerals
(Continued from Page 2)
in order to give the picture pace and suspense.
Curiously, the three German generals who figure most im
portantly in this film are played by Englishmen. As the psy
chopathic General Tanz, Peter OToole gives a highly-mannered 
performance, borrowing heavily from his Lawrence of Arabia 
repertoire of facial twitches and glazed expressions.
One unfortunate piece of business: there is a scene where 
O'Toole is studying a violent Van Gogh self-portrait in a museum. 
As the camera comes in for a closeup, we watch OTooljes face 
go through a phenomenal series of facial gymnastics that would 
have put Lon Chaney to shame.
Omar Shariff, despite a studious performance, was too handi
capped by his very un-Teutonic looks to be convincing as Major 
Grau. The same goes for Tom Courtenay, as a German corporal,
who with his cockney accent i-^__________________
looks as if he were still experi
encing The Loneliness of the 
Long Distance Runner. As Gen
eral Rahlenberge, Donald Pleas
ant gave a good performance in
fusing his role with a nice mix
ture of quiet intelligence and 
irony.
In sum: though not quite the 
powerful movie this might have 
been, The Night of the Generals,
now at the Stanley, downtown, is 
still a rich and compelling mo
vie.
 * 
World War I Ace Snooping Around for a New Car
DEAR REB:
I'm a former World War I Air Ace, and when it comes to buy
ing a new car, I can really fly off the handle. Frankly, the whole 
thing is a dogfight for me. I'm tired of piloting my present car 
and have got my sights set on a performance model thatll let 
me strut in style. But its price has got to be solo it wont shoot 
me down. Im banking on you to help me find one, Reb.
MAX, THE RED BARON
DEAR RED BARON:
Don't be blue, Max! Tri-winging around in a new Dodge 
Coronet R/TRoad/Track. The hottest new performance car 
of the year. Standard equipment includes a 440-cubic-inch, 
4-barrel Magnum V8. Front bucket seats. Air-scoop hood de
sign. High-performance Red Streak nylon tiresand more! 
Join the Dodge Rebellion in a Coronet R/Tyou can do it for 
peanuts. And as for your present car: Junker.
Dodge
CHRYSLER
MOTORS CORPORATION
The 67 Coronet R/T is strictly a driving mans car, with a long 
list of standard performance features designed to give you 
cat-quick responsiveness on the road or the track. Your 
choice of four-on-the-floor or a three-speed automatic trans
mission. Heavy-duty brakes. Heavy suspension underneath. 
Dual exhausts. Full-length paint stripes. All standard. And as 
an option, you can have a dynamic 426-cubic-inch Hemi V8 
under the hood.
Choose your R/T in either a two-door hardtop or convertible 
model. Check one out at your Dodge Dealers soon.
RKBELUON WANTS YONTUB DIIGE
For '67 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W MOTOR
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 22, 1967
Over The
(Continued from Page 7)
ESWN
ID2C2D3C
3H4C4DP
PDbl.PP
P
Opening lead: Club king.
Any novice intending to im
prove his or her bidding should 
consider the above auction as an 
excellent example of how not to
River Allegheny 
bid, yet it is a typical Donner 
Hall auction. Each side passed up 
a major suit game, but the final 
diamond contract of four dou
bled turned out to be a gem for 
Fast and West, as East ruffed the 
opening lead and drew trumps, 
losing only two spades and a 
diamond when hearts broke. Then 
the cards were gathered, shuf
fled, and dealt again. The hand
BR1DQE
was scored, and a rubber was won. 
None of the four players or the 
several kibitzers realized what 
might have been bid or might 
have been made. A cry of Who 
dealt? could be heard above the 
din, and the eternal madness 
sometimes refered to as bridge, 
continued, oblivious to reality or 
common sense in Donner Hall.
Conference
(Continued from Page 1 ) 
main point or points, including 
the effectiveness of U.S. bomb
ing; the history of the U.S. in
volvement in Vietnam; and the 
legitimacy and effectiveness of 
the Saigon government.
David Dellinger, editor of Lib
eration magazine, and Mrs. Pat 
Griffith, wife of a chemistry pro
fessor at Cornell, spoke of their 
recent trips to Hanoi, and stated
CLASSIFIED
TRAVEL  Interested in seeing 
Europe inexpensively? Contact 
American Youth Hostels. 243- 
8348 or 362-1045.
BABYSITTER wanted on regu
lar basis for the remainder of 
the semester. Call: 371-6579.
ATTENTION AUTHORS & THESIS 
WRITERS  technical and sci
entific drawings and illustra
tions. Also maps, charts, and 
graphs. Call 941-9709.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation
Will Be Interviewing On
MARCH 6 and 7, 1967
Candidates For Management Training 
Programs In Fields Of
? ENGINEERING? INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING? PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT? METALLURGY? RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Please Check With Placement Office For More Details 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER________
on Vietnam
that the U.S. bombing in the 
North has not been effective, but 
merely is serving to unite the 
North Vietnamese people against 
the U.S. Also, both agreed that 
the U.S. involvement is prevent
ing reunification and self-deter
mination for Vietnam. In addi
tion, they recounted the destruc
tion wrought on civilian areas in 
Hanoi - Haiphong area by our 
precision bombing, and the use 
of fragmentation bombs against 
military targets in the North.
Daniel Davidson, the repre
sentative of the State Depart
ment, differed With this obser
vation, for he claimed that the 
bombing in the North was sav
ing lives of U.S. troops in the 
South. He went on to support 
the U.S. intervention in Viet
nam as being consistent with 
the policy of resisting the sub
jugation of a free government 
. . . (the Truman Doctrine) 
and cited Greece and South 
Korea as examples of the re
sults of U. S. intervention 
against Communist forces.
Most speakers with the excep
tion of Davidson, were in agree
ment that the United States has 
made many diplomatic mistakes 
in the Far East. Professor Wesley 
Fishel from Michigan State, a 
pro-war authority on South East 
Asia, cited 14 major examples of 
diplomatic blunders committed 
by the U.S. in Vietnam. In addi
tion most speakers, again ex
cluding Davidson, noted that the 
Credibility Gap has separated 
us from the truth, either by man
agement of the news, or by a 
basic lack of understanding of the 
State Department.
An area of basic disagreement 
was over the ineffectiveness of 
the government in Saigon. All 
those who addressed themselves 
specifically to this topic found 
the Ky regime lacking, if not to
tally incompetent. However, Pro 
fessor Milton Sacks of Brandeis 
and Davidson put their faith in 
the Constituent Assembly elect
ed last September, as being rep
resentative of most factions in 
the South.
Among those dissenting from 
this was Malcolm Browne, a 
Pulitzer - Prize - winning news
man, who stated that, accord
ing to Priemer Ky, the elec
tions last September were held 
primarily to appease those 
people in Washington . .
While many students attended 
the conference to learn, it was 
apparent that members holding 
either viewpoint, left or right 
wing, had come with the inten
tion of making political hay. 
The conference was designed to 
pass a resolution, that represent
ed a majority of student opin
ion on campuses all across the 
country. However, the number of 
left wing delegates far out
numbered the number of right 
wing delegates.
Many of the proposed resolu
tions were drafted before all the 
speakers had been heard, or all 
the discussion groups were end
ed. In fact, many students cau
cused continually, seeking sup
port for their resolution rather 
than attending the formal func
tions of the conference.
Despite a walk-out of nine 
right wing delegates who claim
ed the conference was rigged, the 
debate, discussion, and speeches 
convinced many that the situa
tion is extremely complex, and 
cannot be simplified as many, 
especially those in the anti-war 
groups, have tried to do.
JOIN 
THE CHANGE 
FOR THE BETTER 
WITH ALCOA
Accounting, Bus Ad, Chem E, EE, IE, ME, Met E, English Majors and Journalism 
candidates are needed for career opportunities in Industrial Marketing, 
Engineering, Research and Development, Controllership, EDP,
Public Relations and Advertising.
Arrange for an interview through your Placement Office to 
see Alcoas representative on Wednesday, March 8th
Alcoa is an equal opportunity employer
ALCOA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 22, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 11
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sports Editor
Once again Sport Magazine has had several extremely interesting 
articles that I think bear repeating. In football, they report that 
Coach Ara Parseghian of Notre Dame may be planning to use his 
two top-flight quarterbacks in the same backfleld.
Parseghian might move last years first string quarterback 
Terry Hanratty to halfback to make room for Coley OBrien, says 
Francis Wallace, Notre Dames leading football authority and his
torian.
OBrien, the untested sophomore quarterback who picked up 
for Hanratty after an injury in the Michigan State game and who 
performed so admirably in the last game of the season against 
Southern Cal, earned great respect as a passer and field general with 
his late-seasori heroics.
A Michigan State lineman who had gotten to Hanratty but 
not to Obrien, attests, Coley is the better scrambler.
Says Wallace, Ara just might use both in the same backfleld 
to add greater variety to his offense with Hanratty, a strong run
ner, providing the threat of the halfback option pass.
In judging the overall picture of Notre Dame football for 1967, 
Wallace says: The 1967 squad will have every element required 
for greatness. Besides having two top-flight passers, the team will 
have more than adequate running, as the returnees proved against 
Michigan State and Southern Cal. And they will start with much 
improved blocking by the offensive line.
In summing up the various factors, Wallace concludes that 
Notre Dames potentialy high-powered offense, complimented by 
a defense that could be better than it was in 66, could make this 
the finest squad in the schools history.
Also in football, Sports editors discuss thepossibilities of adding 
a 12th player to the offense to protect vulnerable quarterbacks.
We propose that the offense be allowed to play with a 12th 
man, say the editors, He would be a fifth back whose sole job 
would be to protect the quarterback.
He would not be allowed to carry the ball, he would not be 
eligible to receive passes, he would not be able to block for the 
running backs, he would not even be allowed to cross the line of 
scrimmage.
His only duty would be to protect the quarterback. He would 
pick up blitzers, stay with the quarterback if the quarterback rolled 
out or scrambled, block up to the line of scrimmage on a quarterback 
running play. He would be a specialist to end all specialistsan 
exclusive bodyguard to the most valuable piece of bric-a-brac in pro 
football.
The quarterback is of paramount importance in the spectacle
Regulations
The Critique of the University 
will hold its next meeting on 
Thursday, Feb. 23, 4:30 pm in 
Skibo 40.
The topic under discussion will 
be the place of student regulations 
in an educational institution. Three 
student panelists will present 
their opinions and Dean Brown, 
Dean of Student Affairs, will then 
comment on the presentations. 
Following this, the meeting will 
be opened for discussion. Every
one is invited to attend.
of professional football, they 
say. The quarterback is the 
one player every fan knows; the 
one player every fan watches; the 
one player every fan honors, de
means, depending upon his per
formance. He is the person who 
has the power to make, or break, 
his team. He is the indispen
sable man of most pro football 
teams.
It is the quarterback who real
ly makes professional football, 
conclude the editors, and that 
is why we* are making our pror 
posal.
Finally, there was an article 
concerning basketball star Wilt 
Chamberlains challenge t o 
heavyweight boxing champ Cas
sius Clay.
Why would the worlds greatest 
basketball player want to get in
to the ring with the undefeated 
heavyweight champion of the 
world?
Sportswriter Leonard Shecter, 
explains Chamberlains sudden 
desire to enter boxing this way:
The one thing Wilt Chamberlain despises the most is to be 
considered a freak. Its why he 
contemplated leaving basketball 
to become a profesional decath
lon star, its why he considered
Students Protest . ?
(Continued from Page 1)
Let us end this useless kill
ing of men, women, and chil
dren, and begin to build a 
world community founded on 
peace.
We students and faculty 
members from colleges, univer
sities, and high schools in the 
Pittsburgh area plead:
Stop the bombing!
Start negotiating!
The committee is requesting 
donations of $1 from students 
and $3 to $5 from faculty to fi
nance the ad. Interested students 
and faculty may sign this ad at 
the table in the lobby of Baker 
Hall on either Thursday, Feb. 23, 
O Friday, Feb. 24.
becoming an end for the Kansas 
City Chiefs, and why he con
siders trying to become the 
heavyweight boxing champion 
of the world. To prove he isnt 
a freak.
This drive to prove himself 
without capitalizing on his height 
(7-1) even led Wilt to develop 
an unusual fadeaway jumpshot 
which may have been detrimen
tal to his game of basketball Jts a 
shot Chamberlain developed, 
those close to him suggest be
cause he wanted a shot he could 
score on not simply because he 
was tall.
It is this strange drive that 
leads him to think he is not 
only the best basketball player 
in the world, but the best chess 
player, the best track man, and 
the best cook.
Says Willie Reed of the Knick
erbockers, He swears he can 
beat anybody in the world at 
anything.
He wants, when you come 
right down to it, concludes 
Shecter, to be six feet tall.
A SNAP DECISION NOW 
CAN AFFECT YOUR 
FUTURE FOREVER.
Wait and get all the facts from Sylvania. 
Our representative will conduct 
campus interviews Monday, March 13
CHEMISTS, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS, 
METALLURGISTS
Opportunities for BS, MS and PhD candidates with 
Chemical and Metallurgical Division in Towanda, Penn
sylvania... supplier of materials for lighting, elec
tronics, metals, and space industries. Concerned with 
R&D, technology, and production of tungsten and molyb
denum, inorganic chemicals, chemical vapor deposi
tion of metals and fluorescent powders. We developed 
the rare-earth red phosphors which are currently mak
ing color TV more realistic by allowing the vivid fullstrength use of the properties of blue and green for the 
first time.
If an interview is not convenient on the above date, 
please write for additional details to: Corporate College 
Relations Manager, 730 Third Avenue, New York,
New York 10017.
EE, ME, PHYSICS, IE
BS/MS/PhD graduates for assignments involving radio 
and TV receiving tubes, monochrome and color TV pic
ture tubes, special purpose tubes, photoconductors, 
electroluminescent display devices. Openings with our 
Electronic Systems Division involve radar and antenna 
systems, radio and microwave communications sys
tems, microelectronics, R&D in electronic warfare field, 
electronic security systems, special purpose computers, 
laser and optical systems ... plus worldwide engineering 
support systems. Principal locations are in upstate New 
York, Massachusetts and California.
SYLVANIASuiS'Oa 0 L1
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS U l&L 
An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f
TCF Forum
The Tech Christian Fellowship 
will present a Death of God 
Forum on Friday, Feb. 24, begin
ning at 7 pm in Skibo 39. It will 
be a program of open discussion 
moderated by Neil Rendall of the 
Inter - Varsity Christian Fellow
ship staff. Both sides of the issue 
will be considered, and the Chris
tian answer to the claims of 
radical theology will be present
ed. Come and air your views.
IM Review
(Continued from Page 10)
lit 2nd 3rd Total
DU -----------------703 89 877 2476
SAE ---------------773 840 741 2354
Finals:
DU showed their finest bowling 
of the year by beating the EJs 
A in all games and hence tak
ing the intramural bowling tro
phy. Illian and McCoskey topped 
all bowlers with 532 and 521, re
spectively. Four of the five EJ 
bowlers failed to top the 500 
mark, while their top man Zisky 
could only muster a 514.
Delta Upsilon
1st2nd3rdTotal
McCoskey__-160178183521
Stander _____138171167476
Pranno _____18118S-126582
Rosen f eld__187155150492
Illian _______187185160532
Totals8538787862517
EJs A
1st2nd3rdTotal
Bell ________-159158159476
Zisky _______-155199160514
Douds _______-157178146481
Nadeau_____167127161455
Libman ____...167165158490
Totals8058277842416
Consolation:
Beta Sig took a bigleadin the
first game and held on to win the 
match and hence 3rd place in the 
school by a 2377-2325 score. Cohen 
led the wniners with a fine 515, 
far above his seasons average, 
while high man for the losing SAE 
team was Habel with a 501.
1st2nd3rdTotal
Cohen-.180188147616
Dunn________13214216430
McEnerny ____159138168465
Li pm an-------__159181167497
Upton--------__182132156470
Totals__8127817842*77
Si un a Alpha Epsilon
1st2nd3rdTotal
Mclenathan169141143453
167186164496
Gebbia .....136XX186
Brown __113X16269
Habel----------159171C601
130X130
Ellis _______ z159171330
Totals7447917902325
LEWIS
Salvs'Krpoirs 
RADIO  ELECTRIC CO 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco  in the City!
BRIAR  BOWL
3752 Forbes St. 681-604S 
Nationally 
Advertised 
Pipe
681-6045
?

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans Snap Losing Streak;
Whip Case 75 - 56
by Jim Janke
Carnegie Techs basketball team lost every game of a four game road trip to Ge
neva, Bethany, Grove City, and Westminster, but beat Case Tech in Skibo gym to even 
their record at 9-9. In the Westminister game, John Fontanella, held to seven points in 
the Titans game at CIT, broke loose for 22, and Russ Boston had 16 to give them an
85-50 win. Mark Lang, Jeff Kalin, 
and Ray Burdett did most of the 
scoring for the Tartans, who were 
behind from the opening jump 
and couldnt close the gap. The
Page 12CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 22, 1967
statistics:
WestminsterGFtPts
Fontanella10222
Flannery328
Yost226
Zepemich5313
McConnell328
Boston6416
Robinson204
deJoseph204
Samuels204

totals351585
C.I.T.GFtPts
Houser113
Keefer215
Eurdett7216
Kalin3511
Lang5212
Weborg011
DeHuff102

totals191250
Half time score:Westminster37,
C.I.T. 29.
In the Case game at home, CIT 
beat the visiting team, although 
the Tartans had 20 turnovers, an 
unusually high figure for C.I.T.s 
usually good ball handlers. The 
difference was in field goal per
centages and rebounds (see beEay Burdett gets a shot off 
against his Case defender.
low): After the ball had chang
ed six times in the first 10 min
utes, four buckets by Don Keef
er in the next 6 minutes put C.I.- 
T. in front 37-30, a lead they 
never lost. Mark Lang was high 
for both teams with 22 points, 
although he missed 5 minutes of 
the second half. Kalin had 19, 
Keefer 15 and Burdett 11. For 
Case, Puschaver and Dahlgren 
had 19 and 13 points, respec
tively. The statistics:
CaseGFtPts
Baker11-23
Dahlgren45-613
Paulus32-68
Puschaver62-214
Varsity Managers 
Wanted
Student managers who can han
dle the many details of the vari
ous athletic teams and practice 
sessions are wanted by the Ath
letic Department. They should be 
able to make possible a pleasant 
and orderly situation and enjoy 
stature with the players, coaches, 
administrators and fans.
There is a difference between 
a flunky and a student man
ger. Student managers will be 
an important and responsible cog 
in the Athletic Program. Interest
ed students should contact R. E. 
Haynes, Athletic Director, Gym' 
nasium Building, Room 102.
Tartan Photos by Dave Leavitt 
Jeff Kaun sinks a 5-footer in Tech victory over Case.
Trolley22-26
Freeman34-510
Koza10-02
Smith00-00
Koenig00-20
totals2016-2556
C.I.T.GFtPts
Houser10-02
Keefer71-215
Furdett43-411
Kalin75-619
Lang
Meister
DeHuff
Hummel
8 6-6 22
1 0-0 2
2 0-1 4
0 0-2 0
totals 30 15-21 75
Fieldgoal percentage Case32.3% 
C.I.T.48.4% 
Freethrow percentage Case64% 
C.I.T.71.4% 
Rebounds: Case39; C.I.T.47 
Halftime score: C.I.T.45; Case 
36
Turnovers: C.I.T.20; Case13.
Basketball
IM Basketball is now in its third 
week and by today most sub
league games should be over. This 
means that the subleague winners 
wiil be competing for the major 
and minor league championship. 
If you have any interest in the 
gf_me of basketball, it would be 
well worth your time to go over 
to the gym this week or next and 
see what kind of basketball some
ol these teams play. I think youll 
find that the games wont be a 
comedy of errors, but that these 
teams play good, serious basket
ball.
Last week results were as fol
lows.
Major Leagues
KnicksBTP B defeated TDP 
B 30-16. Scott had 10 for the
winners.
GSIA C defeated BTP B 
52-30. Ramey scored 15. PKA 
defeated TDP B 56-17.
Celtics  ATO A defeated the 
Notes to Win 70-42. Brazovec 
was high scorer for ATO with 
20 points.
The Grad Physics defeated the 
EJ Gophers, 39-25. Osterhuise 
dumped in 23 points in that 
game.
RoyalsTDP A downed SAE 
Purple 38-24. Siger scored 14 
for the winners.
GSIA E beat the Grad Nads 
73-24. Ardern was high scorer 
with 28 points.
JetsPKA B downed TDP C 
31-8.
Pecko had 9 points. F Troop 
downed TDP C 58-18 with 
Rhodes scoring 17. BTP A 
trompled PKA B 69-11. Barbin scored 18.
Pistons  The Chem E, Math 
Grads won out over the Romans 
34-30. Reed had 12 points for 
the winners.
SAE (lions) downed KS, 35-22. 
Pranaitis was high scorer with
13.
LakersEJ A downed DTD 35- 
19. Morisani had 10 points for 
the EJs.
Tom Frank scored 10 points for 
SN Gold but it wasnt quite 
enough, as the Met Knights 
squeaked out a win 21-20. The 
Met Knights then went on to 
defeat the EJ A 34-27. Baily 
had 18.
HawksPKT Purple edged SN 
Black 36-34. Hunia had 12 for 
PKT and Smithyman had 12 for
SN.
The Civil Hammers downed ATO 
FF 43-21. Metz had 11 for the 
Civil Hammers.
Warriors  Dansereau had IS 
points and led GSIA M to a 
54-31 victory over DU.
Swim Team Runs String 
To Five In A Row
by Larry Anderson
The swimming team stretched its win streak to five 
in a row after victories over both Allegheny and Thiel last 
week and boosted their record to 5-3. Tech also swam 
against Slippery Rock after the Tartan went to the press, 
so there is a possibility of even six straight victories.
The Tartans visited Allegheny
off his old record with a time of 
two minutes, 33 seconds.
The team will face Case Tech 
at Cleveland today (Feb. 24) and 
will meet Westminster next Mon
day. The last home meet of the 
season will be against Kent State 
at 4 pm next Wednesday.
WARA Basketball 
Squad Downs 
Waynesburg
Last Saturday the Tech Wom
ens Basketball team traveled to 
Waynesburg and trounced the 
womens team 42-7 in their ini
tial game of the season. The Tech 
girls felt especially victorious 
since this was their first win in 
regulation games in two years.
The game proved to be such 
an easy contest that the Tech 
coach, Miss Jane Fisk, freely 
substituted the second string and 
rested the first string for at least 
half the game. The Tech regulars 
built up a commanding 19-2 lead in 
the first quarter. In the second 
quarter the second string failed to 
score any points, but also held the 
Waynesburg girls to just a single 
field goal, and at half time the 
score was 19-4. During the second 
half the team sparked and added 
another 23 points, to bring the 
final score to 42-7. Freshmen 
Cathy Hill and Linda Hood were 
high scorers with 13 and 12 
points, respectively.
on Wednesday and defeated them 
67-36, while breaking several rec
ords. John OBrien led the de
molition crew with an Allegheny 
pool record and a Tech team rec
ord time of 12 minutes and 38.8 
seconds in the 1,000-yard free
style. Because of the length of 
"the Allegheny pool, which was 
only 20 yards as opposed to the 
standard 25-yard pool, the usual 
50-yard freestyle was not swum,, 
but was replaced by the threelap, 60-yard freestyle. This is so 
the swimmers will finish at the 
edge of the pool, eliminating a 
cumbersome rope across the cen
ter. Captain Pete Hutter set a 
new pool and Jteam record for 
this event with a time of 28.9 
seconds. Merrill Moter ended the 
record onslaught by breaking 
team records in both the 200- 
yard and 500-yard freestyles.
Tech entertained Thiel last Sat
urday and upset their guests with 
a 64-31 win, thus evening Thiels 
record to 4-4. The Tartans thor
oughly out-classed the visitors 
with first place finishes by Mer
rill Motor (200-yard and 500-yard 
freestyles), Pete Hutter (50-yard 
and 100-yard freestyles), Preston 
Biglow (200-yard individual med
ley), John Bennett (diving), Tom 
Kilgore (200-yard backstroke), 
Fred Rial (200-yard breast stroke), 
and the team effort of Jim Wentz, 
John Perry, Bill Cotsworth, and 
Pete Hutter in the 400-yard relay. 
Fred Rials first-place time in the 
breast stroke was a team record 
he broke for the second time, 
knocking nine-tenths of a second
BSR in a close one downed DU 
27-25. Bogart scored eight for the 
winners.
The EJ Bruins beat GSIA M 
59-43. Dolbow had 18 for the 
Bruins.
Minor Leagues
EaglesThe EJ Dislocations dis
located TDP J 69-2. Bell
scored 14.
The 3Ls beat TDP J 43-18. 
The EJs won two more games, 
beating DTD 27-18. and the 3Ls 
36-17. Bell was again high scor
er in these games scoring 11 
against DTD and 13 against the 
3Ls.
BrownThe Chinese Bandits took 
two games, one by forfeit over 
the BTP (T Birds) and one over 
PKA J 40-17. Glen Smith had
16.
In another scheduled game, 
neither BTP or PKT J show
ed, up so both got credited with 
losses.
RamsNVNAF downed ATO J 
40-31, despite Fernies effort of
11 points for ATO.
The Welch Hall Wipeouts won 
two, smearing PKA G 7-17 
and NVNAF 44-25. Goyak scored 
20 in the second game and Ciliberti averaged 17 points for 
both.
ATO J downed PKA G 18- 
19. Zak led scoring with five 
points.
ColtsBSR won by default over 
ATO CSI, and the Civil Ham
mers won two. They downed
DU 24-18 in one game, although' 
McCasky gave an effort for, DU 
with eight points, and in the 
other game, ATO bowed to the 
Civil Hammers 31-27. Brown had 
14.
Water Polo 
Atlantic LeagueATO A moved
into first place by handing BSR 
its first defeat of the season via 
a 7-2 score. In the only other game 
last week, DTD and the Grad 
Nads battled to a 3-3 tie.
Standing W L
ATO A" ____________ 4 0
BSR __________________ 4 1
SN White ____________ 3 1
PKT__________________ 2 2
DTD __________________ 2 8
DU ___________________ 1 4
Grad Mads ___________ 0 6
Pacific League  GSIA moved 
ahead of TDP by edging ATO B 
1-0. In the other league game of 
the week, BTP beat SAE 6-3.
Standing W L
GSIA _________________ 5 1
TDP _________________ 4 1
BTP __________________ 2 1
PKA ________................ 2 3
ATO B ______________ 1 3
SAE ..................................... 1 4
SN Gold __________ 0 2
Intramural Bowling
Due to a successful protest to 
the I.M. Board, DU and SAE re
played their semifinals match 
early Saturday morning. How
ever, the outcome was the samo 
as in the previous match, with DU 
coming from behind to win in the 
t)-irH game. McCoskeys 556 for 
DU led the way to victory, while 
Habeis 526 was outstanding for 
the losers.
(Continued on Page 1U)
