Refuses to be interviewed
KDKAs Levine Sparks 
"Ql  Interest In Stag Films
October 23, 1973 Volume 74 Number 5
Nixon's 
Hie One
Steven Fechtor, author-composer, winner of two 
annual BMI competitions.
Photo by Ed Levine
Play It Again 
Steven !
by Debbie Siegel
Last years Scotch and Soda production, 
Lord Have Mercy, has been named out
standing variety show of the year by 
Broadcast Music, Incorporated. Lord 
Have Mercy shares this years honors with 
Suffragette! a production of the Radcliffe College Grant in Aid Society.
Scotch and Soda, the CMU amateur the
atrical organization, received $500. Steven 
Fechtor, the composer, author and director 
of the play, received $1000. This is the 
third time in four years that a CMU mu
sical has won the BMI award, and the sec
ond year in a row that Fechtor has won. 
Last year he won the award for A New 
Day.
In a telephone interview with Fechtor, 
the TARTAN asked how it felt to win the 
BMI award for the second time. Fechtor 
Said, Its kind of funny because I didnt 
expect to win it again. I was kind of con
fident the first year but that was probably 
because I didnt know any better and I 
figured theyre never going to give it to me 
again. But the way it worked out, naturally 
Im very pleased. From what they tell me, 
Im improving so Im happy about that 
too.
While living in New York, Steve is at
tending two workshops, one sponsored by 
BMI. Thirty composers participate, playing 
their songs for each other and critiquing 
them. In addition, Steve attends a program 
sponsored by Chappell Publications. In this 
workshop, composers concentrate on
(UPI-Oct. 29) Mark this date on your 
calender...Tuesday October 23rd, 1973.
That is the day Congress reconvenes and 
that is the day the nation may learn how 
much of the impeachment talk about Pre
sident Nixon is serious and how much is 
just talk.
The White House predicted today that 
Congress will reject efforts to impeach the 
president because of his dismissal of 
Special Watergate Prosecutor Archibald 
Cox and his refusal to obey a court order 
to turn over to Judge John Sirica secret 
white house tapes.
Under the constitution, impeachment 
proceedings must begin in the House of 
Representatives. Today the Majority 
Leader of the House, Thomas ONeill of 
Massachusetts, says hes talked to a con
siderable number of representatives about 
the Cox firing. ONeill says, Weve all 
talked about impeachment.
The Cox firing precipitated a shake-up 
in the Department of Justice.
Attorney General Elliot Richardson 
resigned when Nixon ordered him to fire 
Cox. Richardson reminded Nixon that the 
Attorney General had promised the Senate 
he would give Cox independence in the 
Watergate investigation. Then Nixon 
turned to Deputy Attorney General 
William Ruckelhaus, like Richardson, a 
Nixon loyalist. But Ruckelhaus refused to 
fire Cox and was himself dismissed.
Finally U.S. Solicitor General Robert 
Bork obeyed the President. Bork is now 
acting Attorney General by law.
So far, most of the predictions of im
peachment have come from Junior De
mocratic representatives who are not in 
positions of power.
But there is increasing evidence that the 
senior members of the House are talking 
among themselves about impeachment for 
the first time in the Watergate crisis. ______
Reproduction
by Thomas Kendig 
Steven Correll 
Gary Singer
KDKA radio announcer Mike Levine, 
who broadcast the time and place of the 
October 12-19 Activities Board STAG 
films without mentioning that only C-MU 
students would be admitted, apparently 
provoked a spate of calls to the university 
from would-be filmgoers. Director of 
Student Activities Robert McCurdy said 
that while some calls were critical of the 
showing of the films, most simply wanted 
to know exactly when and where it would 
take place.
McCurdy says he explained to the cal
lers that the event was closed to the general 
public.
McCurdy told the TARTAN that while 
he could not be sure Levines announce
ment caused the furor, I have to assume 
that since we showed the New York Erotic 
Film Festival during the 1972-3 school 
year without a whimper from anyone on or 
off campus. .. that Mike Levine caused the 
complaints and phone calls.
According to sources who heard the
broadcast, Levine erroneously reported 
that C-MU would show the New York 
Erotic Film Festival. Apparently Levine 
confused this years showing with last 
years. This years showing was actually the 
Erotic Film Celebration distributed by 
Grove Press.
McCurdy says he called KDKA and 
asked that Levine correct both the mis
statement of the name of the films and the 
failure to mention that the showings would 
be closed to the general public. He left hii> 
name, title, and phone number, but so far 
has not received any reply from Levine. 
McCurdy did not send a written complaint.
The TARTAN was unable to determine 
exactly what Levine said on the air. While 
KDKA program director Allan Mitchell 
agreed to let a reporter listen to the tape of 
Levines Open Mike program, he said he 
would not be able to prepare for the tape 
playback in time for the printing deadline 
for this edition of the paper.
McCurdy, who heard the broac?"~~t, says 
Tothe best of my recollection. . . he said 
something to the effect that I thought 
youd be interested in knowing that at 
continued on page 6
$.15 A Check, Checked?
Photo by Mark Vogel
$$$$$$$-Pay for payment
Explored
continued on page 10_ Pregnancy.Photo by Bruce Edelston
by Kevin Turcotte
The October 17 installment of the Hu
man Sexuality lecture series dealt with the 
subject of Reproduction and Pregnancy. 
The guest expert was Marylin Goldsmith, a 
Biology teacher from Pitt. She is a graduate 
of Brown University and is a counselor at 
one of the local sex clinics.
The lecture of the evening was a strong 
dose of Biology. The couple that was 
scheduled to talk about their experiences 
with a pregnancy didnt show up, but the 
lecture was successful without them. A 
large part of the success was the question 
and answer period. Candid questions were 
asked and honest answers were provided. A
continued on page 10
by Steve Calhoun
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank, 
insisting that students have an opportunity 
to comment on university actions affecting 
them, twice delayed a proposal by 
Treasurer G.O. Luster to impose a 15 cent 
fee for check cashing in the C-MU cashiers 
office. At the October 9 meeting of 
Student Senate, Dean Swank urged the 
senators to bargain with the administration 
for increased services in return for the fee.
Beverly Robinson, chairman of the 
Senate General Campus Committee pre
dicts the recommendation of Senate will be 
a graduated fee coupled with abolition of 
the rule that forbids cashing university 
paychecks.
Meanwhile, there is a movement among 
some students outside Senate to oppose 
the imposition of any fee. A student 
member of the Metallurgy Student Ad
visory Committee (SAC) told the 
continued on' page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, QCtbfeA 3?973
EDITORS NOTE
Who is the oppressor and who are the oppressed?
The war in the Middle East poses some very tough, complex 
problems for the United States. It may pose the toughest diplomatic 
problems of any war in this century. Supposedly neutral, but also a 
supporter of Israel, we are caught over a barrel so to speak, between our 
hearts which go to the westernized Israelis, and our pocket books which 
have to consider Arabian oil. This barrel is all the more disturbing with 
Russia behind the Arabs. But whats more, even without our need for 
Arabian oil, we dont really want to damage relations with the Arab 
nations. We have no reason to . We even have some mutual friends. In the 
two world wars and Korea and Vietnam, at least we knew where 
everybody stood.
The war poses a particular problem for the American liberal, who in 
any war will side with the people who appear to be the most oppressed. 
There is evidence that since 1967, many liberals have been oppressed On 
page three of this issue is an article from a radical liberal social change 
publication written by a radical liberal jew who sees Zionist militarism and 
unsympathetic views of the Arabs as a threat to the ideals which Israel was 
founded on.
There was also a fascinating program on CBS last Friday night, 
produced by a jew for CBS news that studied Israel and its society for an 
hour. It was made before the latest war broke out, but the narration made 
frequent reference to it. At one point, the narrator explained this by 
describing mentioned the American liberal complaint that Israel is too 
military-minded, that it trains its children from an early age to be soldiers. 
And the narrator explained this by describing their army as deliberately 
defensive and non-military. The officers are called by their first names and 
must retire when they are forty. Most of the army is comprised of 
volunteers on call from work in their shops and businesses in Tel A viv or 
Jerusalem.
Yet, other parts of the program were devoted to films of holiday 
parades in which tanks and rockets were driven down Main Street. And 
jets soared overhead. Later, when the film examined an occupied Arab 
town, it became dear, at least to me, that the Arabs were being oppressed. 
Despite the narrators denials, it seemed like this was the only way one 
could interpret the fact that Arab refugees were being brought to the 
fields to do the heavy labor. And despite the emphasis that Israeli born 
Arabs are treated equally, they were seen segregated, and the narrator at 
one point seemed to make a special effort to criticize the Arabian 
attitudes towards women and sex "Look, but do not touch. 
No, in spite of the narrators denials, it would appear that the Arabs 
have been oppressed since the 1967 war. And what might be the real 
problem of the war was expressed most clearly in the program by a Jewish 
writer named Amos Oz: "the most dangerous consequence of occupation 
is the effect it might have on Israeli attitudes. 
He went on to say that there is a real danger that the occupied Arabs 
might become the"Jews, Jews, persecuted the same way Jews have been 
for centuries by the gentiles. He said that his job as a writer was to break 
stereotypes on both sides. And here is the central point the stereotypes: 
After being taken advantage of by European colonizers, the Arab coun
tries see Israel as another westernized country trying to take advantage of 
them. Israel on the other hand, sees the Arab countries as an extention of 
the persecution it has received from gentiles. As some sort of revenge, 
Israel might be inclined to persecute Arabs in a similar, if perhaps more 
reasonable, way.
At CMU our hearts are with Israel. There is a high enough Jewish 
population on this campus that all of us can relate to the problem. Some of 
us have heard enough stories about kibbutzes and the beautiful desolate 
Sinai Mountains that we can feel it in our guts. But as an "Eastern Liberal 
Private University, we are in a dilemma. After all, one of our deans is 
from Egypt.
What we must do is determine who is the most oppressed. Keeping 
in mind, of course, that if Israel ever really loses, they might cease to 
exist.
Steve Saunders
ATTENTION:Staff, and those interested in 
joining the staffThe TARTAN 
is sponsering a Writers Workshop 
on Thursday between 1:00 and 
4:00 p.m. See page six for details.
Reportersthe time of the NewsFeatures staff meeting has been changed 
from Thursday at 4:45 to 7:00 p.m.
Letters:
Editor:
W ho istetpr ea nsaedwe e?d sdwestTedM 
?alsw pai tp EasTd he mlpe hpM vTtdpTd 
ytushstdwg
We,w uhM dpalr? e?he e?dc Txawd he bbfUU 
ngog iddSMhcwg vaod aE lw hsd .lwe rdeetpr 
wehsedM he bbfUU ngogIkle e?d iddSdpM 
?alsw hsd dzdp oasd stMtTlxalwg A?d 
xtushstdw ?dsd Txawd he RfUU ngog BstMhc hpM 
vhelsMhc ptr?ewg We wddow weshprd e?he e?d 
ptzdswtec w?alxM Mdpc welMdpew h KltdeV 
TaoEasehuxd nxhTd ea welMc hEeds RfUU ngog 
BstMhc hpM vhelsMhc ptr?ewg 1w te twV id hsd 
EasTdM ea hMhne ea e?d Msapd aE e?d htsI 
TapMtetaptpr hpM e?d lpTaoEasehuxd MdwSw 
tp vTtdpTd mhxx TxhwwsaaowV as iaswd cdeV 
e?d Taonlehetap Tdpedsg W ?hzd dzdp 
itepdwwdM welMdpew heedonetpr ea iasS tp 
e?d 9asdiaaM xauuc tp e?d idd ?alsw aE 
e?d oaspg 6zdp tE apd tw huxd ea EtpM h
Kltde paaS tp i?tT? ea welMc hEeds e?d wlp 
radw MaipV ?d tw wetxx MdptdM hTTdww ea e?d 
?lpMsdMw aE e?alwhpMw aE sdwalsTd 
ohedsthxw hzhtxhuxd apxc tp e?d xtushstdwg 
A?dwd zhxlhuxd sdwalsTdw hsd lphzhtxhuxd Eas 
eidpec ptpd ?alsw ale aE e?d iddSdpMg 
7vTtdpTd ytushsc tw TxawdM Esao R ngog vheg 
ea b ngog vlpMhcf vtOeddp ?alsw weshtr?ejZ 
A?dwd wdzdsdxc sdwestTedM ?alsw hsd hp tpC
dOTlwhuxd tpTapzdptdpTd ea e?d welMdpe 
i?aV uc tpTxtphetap as pdTdwwtecV Mdwtsdw ea 
iasS t.t e?d xtushstdw ap e?tw Thonlwg
A?d ptzdswtec ohc idxx Eddx e?he e?d 
welMdpe Mdwdszdw sdwe hpM sdTsdhetap ap 
iddSdpMw hpM xhed he ptr?eg kle W sdwdpe 
e?tw heedonedM MtTehetap aE welMc ?hutew 
hpM MdohpM sdhwaphuxd xtushsc ?alswf Fndp 
lpetx he xdhwe otMptr?e dzdsc MhcV hpM 
nds?hnw xheds ap iddSdpMwg Fe?dsitwdV W 
tpedpM ea uacTaee hxx uaaSw Eas e?d Taotpr 
wdodwedsgJohnJ. Grefenstette Math
continued on page 7
tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls
News Editor................................Steve Correll Entertainment Editor . . Susan N. Klein
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans Events ..........................................Jay Cohen
Head Reporter..........................Debbie Siegel Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood
Craig Collins, Nonie Dempsey
News and Features Staff................................. Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum Debbie Weiss, Hynk Levy, Sharon Neustein 
Bill Bromiey, Gary Bronheim Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como Mark Evan Chimsky,Doug Stone
John Craun, Sharon Curcio
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon Sports Editor ........................Jeff Englund
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer Sports Staff ..... . Glenn Campbell
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas
Kevin Turcotte, Lois Wholey Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Chip Yeager
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Photography Editors
Photography Staff
. . Elliot Arons 
Ed Levine 
. Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Courtney Larson ,(Bryan Smith, Frank Stein
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the studem 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
i
Layout Staff...................Arlene Berkowitz
Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
CopvSttff .............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs. Cyndy Schmidt
Cartoonist.............................Ron Wiggins

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Oetber 23-1973-Page 3
MEWS COMMENT
impeachment
1 With Honor
Nixon is setting himself above the courts and above the law.-Bella Abzug, Democratic Representative, New York
(The Presidents refusal to obey the Court of Appeals ruling of Oct. 
12 to turn over the Watergate Tapes) represents an unacceptable refusal to 
obey the court order.Senator Edmund Muskie, Democrat, Maine
It is obvious the President is trying to hide whatever is in the 
tapes.
President Nixons offer reminds me of a poker player who wants to 
rake in all the chips without showing the other players his hand.- Senator James Abourezk, Democrat from South Dakota
Last night we were told that the court order would not be obeyed, 
that papers, memoranda, and documents of that kind would not be 
provided at all. And that instead of the tapes, a summary of what they 
showed would be provided.
I think it is my duty as the Special Prosecutor, as an officer of the 
court and as the representative of the Grand Jury, to bring to the courts 
attention what seems to me to be non-compliance with the courts order.Archibald Cox, Special Watergate Prosecutor
Nixons action requires the most serious consideration of impeach
ment procedures. Senator Clifford Case, Republican of New Jersey
he (Nixon) must be involved in the cover-up and the ob
struction of justice to do what he is doing.House Majority Leader Thomas ONeill
At the risk of commenting on what will be two day old news when published, / cannot ignore what events seem to be far more significant than Spiro Agnews resignation; the firing of Special Watergate Prosecutor Archibald Cox and the subsequent dismissal of Deputy Attorney General William Ruckelshaus and the protest resignation of Attorney General Elliot Richardson.When a suspected criminal can dismiss those investigating his crimes, can ignore a court decision and can re-write the law, justice is nonexistent. When the suspected criminal is the President of the United States, Democracy is non-existent. The facts speak for themselves.
Q: Is the President legally entitled to defy a court ruling?
A: The President, through his action last night, apparently indicated 
his view that he is so entitled. However, the Constitution of the United 
States specifies that it is the Presidents duty to enforce the law, saying, in 
article II, Section 3, that he shall take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed. Article VI of the Constitution states that the Constitution is 
the supreme law of the Land. q z-New York Times, Sunday Oct. 21, 1973
Gary Singer Managing Editor
COMMENTARY
The Tartan Grill, which employs both 
men and women students for the same 
slave wages, de facto gives preferential 
treatment to the women. While no written 
policy states this discrimination, women 
are consistently given the easier and lighter 
work. During the day, trash collection is 
exclusively a mans (sic) job. During the 
nightly clean up, grill scrubbing, tray and 
utensil transporting to the kitchen, and 
garbage are again relegated to the male sex. 
Females generally finish work five to ten 
minutes before the men and then can leave 
immediately.
As an advocate of social and political
dKlhxtec aE e?d wdOdwV e?tw sdnaseds EtpMw 
e?dwd ohphrdsthx nshTetTdw aE e?d Ahsehp 
rstxx Mdedwehuxdg WE odp hpM iaodp hsd nhtM 
dKlhx ihrdwV odp hpM iaodp olwe Ma 
dKlhx iasSj WE e?d ohphrdodpe aE e?d rstxx 
Tapetpldw ea ohtpehtp e?tw wdOtwe naxtTc ap 
e?d rsalpMw e?he e?dc udxtdzd Tdsehtp .auw 
hsd eaa -?dhzcq as -azdsulsMdptprq Eas 
iaodpV e?dp e?d Jstxx ?hw apxc apd esld 
hxedsphetzdf vtpTd e?d nsdwdpe nhc tw
otptolo ihrd 7YbgLDZV hpM te tw txxdrhx ea 
xaids e?d iaodp,w ihrdw 7i?tT? W ialxM 
zd?dodpexc MdedweZV e?d Ahsehp Jstxx olwe 
e?dsdEasd toodMthedxc tpTsdhwd e?d ihrdw 
aE e?d odp donxacddwg
Michael Scott Baum
alsedwc aE "W ohrhNtpdg kaO D:LV 
HtEeapV  bP:Lb
by Marty Jezer
We tw MtEEtTlxe Eas hp 1odstThpI 
nhsetTlxhsxc h Jdiea lpMdswehpM e?d xhedwe 
1shuIWwshdxt "hs ite? hpc uhxhpTdg A?d 
odMth tw nsaIWwshdx hpM e?d 1odstThp 
Jditw? 6wehuxtw?odpe oasd ?hiStw? hpM 
hpetI1shu e?hp oawe Wwshdxtwg W wlwndTe e?he 
olT? aE e?d wconhe?c e?he e?d 1shuw rde 
Esao calpr Jditw? xdEetwew ?hw xteexd ea Ma 
ite? e?d 9tMMxd 6hwe wtelhetap ule tw h 
sdhTetap hrhtpwe e?d ndsTdnetap aE Wwshdx 
nsaoaedM uc 1odstThp ZtaptwewV i?a 
Mtwotww hpc Phxdwetpthp Txhtow ea e?d hsdhg W 
Spai e?he W tpwetpTetzdxc sdudx hrhtpwe 
?hsMxtpd Ztaptwo hpM EtpM ocwdxE MdC
EdpMtpr e?d Phxdwetpthp nawtetap i?dp W ho 
tp Ztaptwe Taonhpcg kle hxwa W donhe?tNd 
ite? e?d Wwshdxtw i?dp W ho ap oc aipg Fp 
apd natpe e?d Ztaptwew hsd str?ef e?d 
dOtwedpTd aE Wwshdx ohSdw dzdsc Jdi 
TapwTtalw aE ?tw as ?ds Jditw?pdwwg
We tw MtEEtTlxe ea Taoodpe ap e?d Tlssdpe 
ihsV i?tT? tw tp tew e?tsM Mhc hw W isted e?twg 
A?d 1shuw ?hzd uddp TstetTtNdM Eas Tsawwtpr 
e?d vldN Mlstpr ao KtnnlsV e?d Jditw? 
?tr? ?axc MhcV ule Wwshdx Msdi e?d Etswe 
uxaaM tp e?d ,6L ihs hpM als aip Jdasrd 
"hw?tpreap dhspdM Klted h ?dsatT sdnlehC
etap Eas Tsawwtpr e?d Ddxhihsd hpM TheT?tpr 
mdwwthp waxMtdsw MslpS ite? ?stweohw 
T?ddsg
Wwshdx itxx pa Malue itp hpae?ds ztTeasc 
hpM wlsztzd ea Etr?e hpae?ds ihsg Wp e?d 
nhweV e?tw wddodM ea wlte uae? wtMdw idxxg 
A?d 1shu xdhMdsw pddMdM h e?stztpr Wwshdx ea 
wdszd hw -A?d 6pdocq hpM ea Mtzdse e?dts 
aip ndanxd Esao MdohpMtpr MaodwetT 
sdEasowg 7Hdnsdwwtzd phetapIwehedw hxihcw 
pddM hp dpdoc ea Easdwehxx naxtetThx T?hprd 
he ?aodg A?he tw i?c e?d gvg tpzdpedM e?d 
axM "hs hpM e?d vaztde razdspodpe 
?hnntxc eaaS ln e?d uhtegZ Wp h wtotxhs ihcV 
Wwshdx hxwa pddMdM e?d e?sdhe aE 1shu 
hrrsdwwtapg A?d otxtehsc tw e?d apd Ta?dwtzd 
EasTd tp e?dts odxetpr nae hpM wlTTdww tp 
ihs ?hw Sdne e?d 9aw?d DhchpIJaxMh 9dts 
nhsec tp naidsg 9asdazdsV 1odstThp Jdiw 
sdhMtxc sdwnapM ite? oapdc ea Wwshdxt 
ihsITstdwg _A?d 1shuw heehTSdM ea itp uhTS e?d 
edssteastdw e?he Wwshdx ?hM iap tp e?d vtO 
Dhc "hsg Wwshdxt dOnhpwtap tpea e?tw MtwnledM 
hsdh tw Txdhsxc nsazaThetzdg 1TTasMtpr ea 
st DhztwV istetpr tp Peace News, DU pdi 
Wwshdxt wdeexdodpew idsd dwehuxtw?dM wtpTd 
e?d ,6L TapKldwe hpM wtO oasd hsd nxhppdM 
Eas ,L3g Dhztw hxwa Klaedw 9aw?d Dhchp hw 
whctprV tp bR68V -Dlstpr e?d xhwe bUU cdhswV 
als ndanxd ?hzd uddp lpMdsratpr h nsaTdww 
aE ultxMtpr ln e?d Talpesc hpM e?d phetapV 
aE dOnhpwtapV aE rdeetpr oasd Jdiw hpM 
wdeexdodpewV hpM aE TaxaptNhetap tp asMds ea 
dOnhpM e?d uasMdsw ?dsdg yde e?dsd ud pa 
Jdi i?a whcw e?he id hsd pdhs e?d dpM aE 
e?d sahMgq
Bsao e?alwhpMw aE otxdw hihcV 
1odstThp Ztaptwew dT?a e?tw tondsthx Thxxg 
1odstThpw ?dhs xteexd aE Wwshdxt Mtwwdpe as
Spai 7as dzdp ihpe ea SpaiZ e?he e?dsd 
hsd Wwshdxtw i?a ihpe ea rtzd e?d edssteastdw 
uhTS ea e?d 1shuw hpM i?a ihpe ea sdelsp 
ea e?d astrtphx Ztaptwe ztwtap aE h MdTdpC
eshxtNdM TaxxdTetztwe Taooapidhxe?g A?tw 
wtMdV h otpastec ite?tp WwshdxV tw lpxtSdxc ea 
rhtp wesdpre? hw xapr hw 1shu hpM Wwshdxt 
xdhMdsw xaaS eaihsMw h otxtehsc waxletapg
Wwshdx hxwa nsaoaedw lpsdwe uc 
nsa.dTetpr e?d TapTdne aE Wwshdx hw e?d 
?aodxhpM Eas iasxM Jdiscg A?d nxtr?e aE 
vaztde Jdisc ohc ud hle?dpetT hpM dotrshC
etap ale aE hpc Talpesc tw h uhwtT str?eg kle 
Ztaptwe nsanhrhpMh 7nxhctpr ap 1odstThp 
hpetIaoolptwoZ ?hw uxaip e?tw twwld hxx 
ale aE nsanasetapIhrhtp ea shxxc 1odstThp 
wlnnaseg yhetp 1odstThp dOtxdw weshpMdM tp 
?txd Tdsehtpxc EhTd Ehs rsdheds Mhprds hpM 
uxhTSw tp 1odstTh hsd nsauhuxc hw 
annsdwwdMg kle Wwshdx sdTdpexc sdElwdM ea 
hTTdne h rsaln aE uxhTS Jdiw i?a tootC
rshedM Esao 1odstThg A?dts Taxas TalxM 
apxc Thlwd esaluxd tp Wwshdx i?dsd papI 
6lsandhp Jdiw hxsdhMc EhTd MtwTstotphetapg 
Jdiw Esao Hlwwth Ete oasd TaoEasehuxc 
tpea Wwshdxt waTtdec hpM ?hzd hMMdM 
nsanhrhpMh zhxldg
9dhpi?txd e?d Phxdwetpthpw Tapetpld ea 
wlEEdsg A?dc hsd e?d esld ztTetow aE e?d 
1shuIWwshdxt ihswg Wwshdx aEEdsw e?do pa 
hTTdnehuxd waxletap dOTdne ea xtzd hw wdTapM 
Txhww TtetNdpw tp hp hxtdp phetapg 1pM e?d 
1shuw pddM e?do tp xtoua e?d ihc Wwshdx 
pddMw e?d Hlwwthp JdiwV Eas nsanhrhpMh 
nlsnawdw hpM hw .lwetEtThetap Eas otxtehsc 
nsdnhsdMpdwwg 9asdazds e?d Phxdwetpthp 
rldsstxxhw wddo h Ehtsxc nhe?detT xaeg A?dts 
dxtetwo udxtdw e?dts nhsetTlxhs Easo aE 
edssastwoV hrhtpwe tppaTdpe ndanxd 
e?alwhpMw aE otxdw Esao e?dts weslrrxdV 
westSdw od hw TaihsMxc hpM naxtetThxxc 
Eletxdg kle Mdwndshetap wddow e?dts apxc 
sdTalswdg
"?he Thp 1odstThpw MaV dwndTthxxc 
1odstThp Jdiw i?a Eddx e?d doaetaphx 
nsdwwlsd aE e?d Ztaptwe nsanhrhpMh hpM 
i?a sdwnapM 7i?a Thppae ?dxn ule 
sdwnapMZ tp h naxhstNdM ihcV dte?ds Eas as 
hrhtpwe e?d dOtwedpTd aE Wwshdx? Aa hTTdne 
e?dwd naxhstNdM ztdiw tp Mtwehpe 1odstTh tw 
ea Easrde e?he Wwshdx tewdxE tw Elxx aE TapeshC
MtTetapwg We tw nawwtuxd ea wlnnase e?d 
dOtwedpTd aE Wwshdx hw h ?tweastThx EhTe hpM 
wetxx annawd tew razdspodpe,w hssarhpeV 
otxtehstwetT hpM dOnhpwtaptwe naxtTtdwg 1pM 
te w?alxM hxwa ud nawwtuxd ea annawd e?d 
1odstThp Jditw? dwehuxtw?odpe,w ?hsMxtpd 
naxtTc ite?ale Mdpctpr apd,w aip wdpwd aE 
Jditw?pdwwg 1xwaV wtpTd e?d Phxdwetpthp 
zatTd tw shsdxc ?dhsM tp e?d ptedM vehedwV te 
ialxM ud lwdElx ea Mtwetprltw? e?dts 
nsauxdow Esao e?d phetaphxtwetT houtetapw 
aE sdhTetaphsc 1shu xdhMdswV hpM ea Sddn tp 
otpM e?he e?d otxtehsc waxletap EhzasdM uc 
uae? wtMdw trpasdw e?dts eshrtT nxtr?eg 
yhwexcV id w?alxM Sddn h iheT?Elx dcd ap 
e?d tOap hMotptweshetap hpM e?d xhsrd atx 
Taonhptdwg A?d naxtetTw aE atx hsd pdzds Ehs 
udpdhe? e?d wlsEhTd aE e?d 9tMMxdI6hwe 
Tstwdw hpM e?d Elelsd aE e?d WwshdxtwV e?d 
PhxdwetpthpwV hpM e?d 1shuw hsd hxx 
wdTapMhsc ea e?d pddMw aE 1odstThp Ftxg
CONTACT
Bas oasd tpEasohetap ap e?tw otMMxd hpM TapTtxtheasc hnnsahT? ea e?d 9tMMxdI 
6hweV TapehTe A?d aooteedd ap di 1xedsphetzdw tp e?d 9tMMxd 6hweV 33R yhEhcdeed 
vegV di asSV  bUUbPg 1xwaV hp dOTdxxdpe Etxo e?he dOnxasdw e?d TaonxdOtetdw aE 
Wwshdxt xtEd tp h wconhe?detT ule TstetThx ihc tw xhlMd yhpNohpp,w Israeli Why, h 
BsdpT? Etxo 7tp e?d eshMtetap aE 9hO Fn?lxw,w Sorrow & The PityZ e?he sdTdpexc 
nsdotdsdM he e?d di asS Btxo Bdwetzhx hpM Mdwdszdw e?d itMdwe nawwtuxd wTsddptprg

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Kappa Sigma and Delta Gamma will be
collecting for UNICEF again this year on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, October 30th and 
31st. We will be in Baker Hall on both 
days, in Fine Arts on Tuesday, and in Sci
ence Hall on Wednesday. Christmas and 
note cards will also be on sale.
A CMU Bagel and Lox Brunch will be held
in Skibo Faculty Dining Room on Sunday, 
October 28 at 11 am. Prof. Joel-Tarr, His
tory Department and SUPA, CMU, will 
speak on "Ethnic and Racial Confrontation 
in the American City. Cost is $1.00. 
Sponsored by Bnai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Israeli and Folk Dancing sponsored by
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Cen
ter. Held every Monday at 7:30 pm. in the 
H i I lei Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S.- Bellefield 
Ave. No Charge.
A Faculty Student Sabbath will be held at
Chatham College Chapel Lounge at 7:30 
pm on Friday, October 26. Marjorie Weinhold, English Department, Chatham Col
lege, will speak on "Ethics in Language." 
Worship followed by speaker and refresh
ments. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith HillelJewish University Center.
A Jewish Philosophy Series is held every
Sunday at 7:30 pm. in the Hillel Lounge, 
3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. October 
28th Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Driector, B'nai 
B'rith HHIel-Jewish University Center will 
speak on "The Biblical Talumdic View of 
Man."
Lost: Gold plastic belt in Porter or Science
Hall. Please call 372-2576.
Bridge Players: a duplicate bridge game will
be held Sunday, October 28 at 2:00 pm. at 
Delta Upsilon, 5031 Forbes. Partnerships 
will be arranged. Refreshments will be 
served. Call 683-9881 for more 
information.
During the months of May and June, 1974,
the Department of Modern Languages will 
conduct a foreign study program in Mex
ico. The group of participating students 
will take up residence in Mexico City for 
approximately five to six weeks, and will 
travel about the country for approximately 
two weeks. Departure has been tentatively 
scheduled for directly after the end of the 
spring term while the return trip has been 
set at on or before July 1. It is stressed that 
the level of study is open to both Spanish 
majors and non-majors. Professor Jose L. 
Varela-lbarra will serve as resident director 
of the summer program. The approximate 
cost to the student will be as follows: CMU 
Tuition at $16.00 per unit: $192 for 12 
units. $288 for 18, $384 for 24; Room and 
Board $300 (depends on individual) Air 
Fare (the group may decide to travel by 
land), $140 (youth fare, round trip to 
Texas;); Land Travel $60 or less. To obtain 
further information on the program, 
contact the Department of ModernLanguages.
WRCT special! An interview/discussion
with supporters of the United Farmworker 
Movement, Thursday, October 25. 11:30 
pm.-2am. *
IBM Selectric typing services. Thesis, term
papers, mailing lists, envelopes. Technical 
and Statistical typing. Preparation of 
charts, maps, illustrations, figures. Darlene 
Covaleski, Ext. 847 or 441-2766.
Lunch and Lecture series, entitled "Per
spectives on the Jews of Eastern Europe", 
will be held Monday, October 29, at noon 
in the Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave. Dr. Jerome Rosenberg, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, will speak on "Th 
Contemporary Russian Scene." Cost for 
lunch is $.75 in this last lecture of the 
series.
Lucille Johnson Rosenbloom and Marcella
Cozikova will perform a Concerto for Two 
Harps by Camille Saint-Sans with the 
McKeesport Symphony Orchestra on Sat
urday, October 27 in the McKeesport High 
School Auditorium. Student tickets are 
$2.00.
An exhibit of posters by junior and senior
designers is now-on display at the Design 
Department, third floor Baker Hall.
CIT MIS freshmen-Pick up mid-semester
grades on Thursday, October 25th in Scaife 
Hall 110.
Girls Interested in a group of dose friends?
Ever consider a sorority? Come meet the 
Tri Deltas! We're carving pumpkins for the 
kids at Children's Hospital on Tuesday, Oc
tober 30 at 9:30 pm. 7C Morewood 
Gardens. Commuters welcome!
An Edgar Allen Poe classic. The Masque of 
the Red Death will be shown at the 
Crumbling Wall Coffeehouse, 4515 Forbes, 
on Friday, November 2. Coffeehouse 
hours: 9 pm. to 1 am. No admission, open 
to the university community.
Telephone Solicitor: part time-full time
work. For aggressive, ambitious person 
with gift of gab. Call Prudential Products, 
Inc. 521-7395.
AFTER OCTOBER 15,1973, OUR NEWADDRESS WILL BE :
Port Authority of Allegheny County 
Beaver and Island Avenues-North Side 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15233
//
Transit Information MIM Central Offices
231-5707 * #/ZZZ7 1 231-3600
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
Announcesthe 1973-1974 Season
Nov. 5.. Senofsky.. Mack-Lesser Trio -violin, piano, cello.
_ Dec. 3.. Juilliard Quartet
a>l Jan. 14.. Tokyo String Quartet
Feb. 25.. Fine Arts Quartet with Seymour Bernstein, piano 
April L New York String Sextet
All concerts at 8:30 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall 
Special Rate for Students: $5.00 For for the series 
I.D. Cards Must be Shown Skibo Info Deskfrom October 24
CLASSIFIED ADS
Former Business Education instructor
(B.S., M.Ed.) will type term papers, 
themes, dissertations. Work guaranteed. 
776-1448.
Wanted: Advent loudspeakers. Used but
alive. 681-2987.
For Sale: Dual 1219. Must sell. 683-3579.
Aster ik Recording Studio: Modern,
creative atmosphere; professional personnel 
and equipment; for more information call 
731-6060.
Custom Print Processing. Color and B/W
from 8mm. to 2/4" by 3%'' negatives and 
35 mm. slides. Dry Mounting, Retouching, 
Special Effects. Darlene Covaleski, ext. 847 
or 441-2766.
Scuba Diving gear wanted: 963-9740 after
7 pm.
PERSONALS
Carl
No I'm not real,
Not what you think I am.
* not what I'd like to be.
The reality of your thoughts 
is the reality of me.
Reality of fantasy.
Anna
(Aside to the above author:
I thank you for the thought, my friend, 
But Anna is quite true.
I've written once again to her,
And Anna is not you.
Carl)
Dear Anna,
Oh! say will you be 
My life's shining light?
How often I've mailed 
My true love's deep meaning.
In the night under the stars,
On a TWA flight,
How I've loved being near 
To your gracious love beaming.
And your beautiful hair.
Forgive me if I stare,
It's so lonely at night 
Whenever you are not there.
Oh! say I'm so glad 
You chose my life to save.
So glad that you are free.
So glad that you gave.
Carl
 -11 11".1
UNWANTED
PREGNANCY?
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING IS A 
HOSPITAL-AFFILIATED ORGANIZA
TION OFFERING YOU ALL ALTERNATIVES TO AN UNWANTED PREGKDAK sLev insSvpariSn kA
> ARSACtL: VA. *s *
Call (215) 449-2006
AMERICAN FAMILY 
PLANNINGA Medical Service to Help You
YOUR

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973-Page 5
WOMEN AND MINORITIES
Shift Towards Equality
by Christine Infante
Fighting discrimination is no easy 
battle. Assured equality doesnt exist and 
when that is your primary functionto 
bring about ways to insure that equality 
its like fighting windmills.
Around March of 1971, former 
President Stever created a Commission on 
the Status and Needs of Women at C-MU. 
Representatives of the administration, 
faculty, staff, students and alumnae met to 
examine the universitys treatment of 
women students, employees, and faculty. 
Their findings: A bias against women 
students exists in C-MUs overall 
educational practice. They noted that pre
dominantly female oriented programs had 
been discontinued, Margaret Morrison in 
1973 and the School of Library Sciences in 
1962, and that little effort is made to 
attract more women to other programs. On 
the faculty and staff level they noted that 
women supplied 34% of the Universitys 
total work force but only 12% of the total 
faculty. Faculty women, states the report, 
are paid less . . . less likely to be 
tenured . . . have lower fringe benefits. 
They also found that women in the nonacademic jobs tend to be concentrated in 
clerical or secretarial categories.
Dr. Ruth Beach, a former assistant 
professor, who became involved in a 
womens organization with similar con
cerns in 1970 was selected as chairwoman 
of the commission.
The final report was sent to dwell on 
someones desk during the interim of Dr. 
Stevers resignation and Dr. Cyerts inaugu
ration. Dr. Beach in the meantime went to 
Princeton as chairwoman of their Affirm
ative Action Plan. When Dr. Cyert started 
things moving again and decided to create 
C-MUs Affirmative Action Office (A.A.O.) 
his logical choice was Dr. Ruth Beach.
The A.A.O. has been in existence since 
January 15th not everyone is aware that it 
is working on specific campus problems 
and bringing results. What exactly then is 
its purpose and is it exclusive to women?
Under the federal government the 
university is prevented from discriminating, 
which everyone knows does not mean that 
it wont. Dr. Beach explained that the 
scope of the job is set by Federal Require
ments. For example the university must 
disseminate an Affirmative Action Plan 
(AAP) and present it, but the emphasis 
there is on employees.
As a member of the C-MU faculty Dr. 
Beach was alert to the problems of fellow 
female faculty and as a clinical psycho
logist who spent much of her time in the 
counseling center she knew the problems 
of female and minority students. Con
sequently as the Affirmative Action Officer 
she views her responsibilities in broader 
terms. What she intends to see develop is a 
program for monitoring the implement
ation of a policy of non-discrimination in 
race, creed, color and sex in admissions and 
employment as well as in treatment of 
students, faculty and staff.
Objectives are one thing, implement
ation another. The aim of AAO 
implementation then there ought to be 
some general philosophy as to what and 
how that can be accomplished. There is.
Two advisory councils were appointed in 
September of this year to explore possible 
inequalities, one on women, the other on 
minorities. The procedures they decide 
upon will be incorporated into a docu
ment which will be our AAP. The two 
councils are setting task forces to assure a 
broader scope by investigating many 
facets of the problem of discrimination in 
depth. Dr. Beach explained that the two 
councils had been asked to help in the 
development of specific procedures to 
insure equality of opportunity for women 
and minorities in matters that effect them 
as students, faculty and staff.
No Overt Student Discrimination
Naturally the obvious question is how 
does this pertain to the student body? Dr. 
Beach in response to the question of dis
crimination in admissions policies 
emphatically said there is none: There are 
no quotas for the admission of women into 
the university as a whole or into individual 
colleges. Without all the necessary data an 
estimate of the past three years indicate a 
fairly stable total of 26% women in the 
student body, of that 13% are on the 
graduate level. Although no discriminatory 
practices intentionally exist peculiar 
problems do. Dr. Beach pointed out that 
since Carnegies strengths are traditionally 
male-oriented the average thinking here 
tends to be the student he, which 
complicates the female students needs.
The Labor Force
Women in non-faculty positions tend to 
be concentrated in secretarial or clerical 
positions, minorities in service positions. In 
managerial positions recent appointments 
of women have been made: Irene Dogherty 
as bookstore director, Rita Cohen as 
director of food service. The problem 
however remains one of uneven dis
tribution. To correct that Dr. Beach 
believes C-MU ought to promote from 
within. Pointing to GSIA she adds, we 
have the capability of training for manage
ment. But can the university assume that 
responsibility? Tm recommending that we 
at least explore how we can do it.
Faculty Discrimination
The general philosophy with regard to 
faculty is more specific. The aim is to see 
the proportion of women and minorities in 
those positions at least proportionate to 
the national labor pools from which we 
draw. This year 8% of the faculty is 
female, 4Vi% minority, of that only 1% is 
black. The national average of women on 
faculties is 22%, of minorities it is 5.3%. 
The statistical data illustrates that we need 
more women and minority faculty on the 
staff. Dr. Beach is anxious tp see results, 1 
hope we will have an effect as of this yeai 
on the hiring of faculty for next year.
Weeding Out Discrimination
Objectives are one thing, impleme
ntation another. The aim of AAO 
according to Dr. Beach is to alert those 
who do the hiring of what C-MUs goals are 
for women and minorities and to make 
demonstrable efforts to meet those goals. 
Perhaps one means might be by making 
recommendations for opening administraPhoto by Ed Levine
tive or faculty posts.
In principle, of course, no one has 
disagreed with equal treatment. The diffi
culties arise in matters of interpretation 
and application especially in recruitment 
and in judging qualifications. Dr. Beach 
cited one provost (from another university) 
who asked for the names of possible can
didates for a high post. All the recommend
ations were for men. Only when he later 
specified that he would consider women 
did he receive any nominations. Its not a 
mass conspiracy against women, its just 
that assumptions no matter how false are 
made particularly in Engineering schools 
that male oriented institutions are not 
interested in women.
The problem of hiring has another 
dimension. Male employers tend to 
evaluate competence in a pre-packaged 
male style. Competence indicators, such as 
an aggressive nature, that they look for in 
men are applied to women. Dr. Beach 
maintains that these signposts cannot be 
applied fairly to both.
This smacks of reverse discrimination or 
at least thats the common argument. 
Quotas, goals in numbers for either 
minorities or women cause some problems. 
Dr. Beach again explained the general 
policy that Ive been following is that we 
should have on our work force a pro
portion of women and minorities which is 
at least equal to the proportion of the 
labor supply from which we draw our 
employees. That translates into 
percentages ... And thats a very responsi
ble goal... I dont see unqualified women 
replacing men, rather. Women will be 
competing for the first time.
She adds, the only ones who will balk 
are unqualified men. They are the only 
ones with reason to fear equality.
Though the emphasis is for the most 
part on what the Affirmative Action Office 
will be working on throughout the year the 
office is not without its present ac
complishments. Out of her office stems the 
Human Sexuality Program, the Conference 
on Non-Traditional Careers for Women, the 
development of a faculty-staff womens 
newsletter and an increase in the number 
of women undergraduates enrolled in 
non-traditional female subjects.
Dr. Beach has set a 1974 deadline in the 
timetable for AAP completion. She is in 
effect working at phasing out her own 
position. The existence of such an office 
reminds the administration that there are 
women and minorities to fill positions and 
urges them to be considered ... This year 
is going to see major progress.
WRCT SPECIAL! Thurs. Oct. 25 WRCT wil 
talking with United Farmworkers Supporters 
in an informal discussion of the movement 
and its origins. Call your questions and com
ments in between 11:30p.m. and 2 a.m., at 
621-WRCT.
REICH/FRANK'S
CN CMCruise on up to Reich Franks 
all new TOP DECK and move 
out in clothes designed for the 
guy with Cruisin to Do ... 
in baggies ... baseball shirts 
.. . bowties ... and belts.. .. 
It s the one place that puts it 
all together for you.
ALEX
v"iQls
21? n HIGHUND m EAST tl8EBTY /Ml 2257  M20 FOUBES Ml SQUtMEl HIU/421 *00 y
RANK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973
Mike
LevineStudent Lobbies Change Priorities
continued from page 1
C-MU this weekend they are showing the 
York Erotic Film Festival and then 
stumbled over the locationhe said both 
Doherty Hall and Porter Hall-and men
tioned that it would be shown Friday. 
Saturday and Sunday and read a list ot 
the times. The only other comment he 
made was that those kids out there are 
going to be seeing dirty movies and 
nobody's going to do anything about it. 
Others who heard the broadcast essentially 
confirm McCurdy's recollection.
Levine himself refused to allow the 
TARTAN to interview him on the subject. 
When a reporter persisted in asking ques
tions, Levine said. Here is an accredited 
quote for you. I will comment on your 
journalistic tactics. They stink. Now may I 
speak to your superior.
Levine seems to feel, as the TARTAN 
understands it, that he merely mentioned 
the film showing to his audience without 
expressing any opinion and therefore 
believes he need not be involved in the 
consequences of the incident.
The publicity and phone calls following 
the broadcast prompted the Division of 
Student Activities and the Activities Board 
to take unusual security precautions, as 
McCurdy recounts. First it was decided to 
check everyone buying a ticket to make 
sure he had a valid C-MU ID card. Sue 
Christian, Assistant Director of Student 
Activities, contacted Thomas MacMullan, a 
lawyer involved in the legal test of the 
movie Deep Throat. At his advice, it was 
decided to ask for proof of age also. An 
extra security officer was detailed as a 
precaution against trouble with outsiders 
who might seek to attend.
The Activities Board is a student organ
ization financed by Student Government 
with money from the Student Activity 
Fee. The Activities Board film committee, 
chaired by Tom ianecki, selected the films. 
McCurdy is the official university super
visor of student organizations like the AB. 
Asked if he had seen the films before the 
showing, McCurdy said he had not, 
explaining that he did not feel it his place 
to serve as a censor for the campus. Its 
my philosophy, he said, that in a closed 
intellectual community we should be able 
to explore such things as obscenity and 
pornography and comment on them. . . 
Student reaction to the films does not 
seem to have been strongly enthusiastic.
I understand they were not very good 
films, said McCurdy.
Check Charge
continued from page 1
TARTAN the group will try to interest 
other departments' SACs in fighting the 
fee. He said the people he had spoken 
with were as unhappy as C-MU students 
ever get and added that he understood 
Luster felt absence of student reaction to 
an earlier article in the TARTAN indicated 
lack of opposition. The Metallurgy student 
expressed his own opinion: Its an ex
tension of the Rutledge philosophy of last 
year. .. everything is a service; I heard 
they were even thinking of charging for 
library use and tennis courts. Thats when 
students began treating C-MU with the 
same kind of attitude they have toward Ma
By Sharon Curcio
There are no more protests because 
they are no longer effective. Listen, you 
just don't get a million dollars by sitting on 
the governor's front lawn. Were smarter 
now. This statement not only summarizes 
the activities of the student lobby of the 
University of California, but the speaker, 
Linda Bond, also provides the rationale for 
student lobbies.
Ms. Bond, a graduate of the University 
of California is one of the three directors 
of the University of California's student 
lobby. Student activists at the University 
of California founded the first student 
lobby in 1971 with $35,000 in student 
contributions. Soon other student lobbies 
sprang up at the State University of N^v 
York and the University of Colorado. 
Three students from the University of Cal
ifornia then went east to establish a nation
al headquarters to represent the entire 
American student community. Presently 
the National Student Lobby in Washing
ton, D. C. works to inform Congress and 
other Federal agencies about issues of 
student concern and to implement legisla
tion to protect student interests. National
ly, students are largely concerned about 
financial aid to institutions of higher 
education, student loans, scholarships, the 
minimum wage bill, and student airfare. 
The founders of the NSL began with 
SI0,000 (of student contributions from 
the U. C. organization) and, launched a 
mass mailing to colleges and universities to 
identify and publicize the organization and 
its function, and thus receive their 
attention and assistance. One hundred 
thirty-five institutions responded to the 
mailing, pledging financial support.
The University of California student 
lobby provices a model for the operation 
of the NSL. Students at each of the Univer
sity of Californias nine campuses appropri
ate the lobbys yearly budget of $35,000 
derived from individual contributions. Or
ganizations like the student lobby of U. C., 
the NSL, and PIRG directly depend on
students to financially sustain their activities.
Each of the University of Californias 
student lobbyists earns earns $600 per
month; the remaining staff members are 
student interns who receive housing plus 
academic credit for their services. Infor
mation is the lobbyists business. It not 
only operates the lobby but becomes a 
function of the organization as well as its 
product. Each day the lobbyists receive an 
abstract of all the bills proposed in either 
the Senate or House of Representatives. A 
bill falls into one of three categories: 
oppose, favor, or watching. If the lobby 
opposes a certain bill, they try to persuade 
the sponsor to withdraw it. The student 
lobby of the University of California keeps 
a score card for each upcoming bill which 
serves as a record of this policy concerning 
the bill.
U. C.s student lobby has made a mark; 
they are recognized as a very effective 
organization. They concentrate upon 
student related issues and make their view
points known to their state legislators. At 
times, they have made their viewpoint 
become their legislators viewpoint. An 
assembly speaker of California1, Bb 
Moretti, said this of the lobby: Ive seen 
them with my own eyes turn legislators 
around. They have been effective because 
they know what theyre lobbying about.
The National Student Lobby in Wash
ington, D.C. operates very much like Uni
versity of Californias student lobby, but 
instead upon the national level. The NSL 
began with financial aid and student dele
gates sent by the 135 institutions originally 
responding to the mailing.
NSL receives no funds from the govern
ment. The Board of Student Directors 
monitors NSLs operations and receives in
formation from each of its six regions. 
Each region caucuses to elect a represent
ative to the Board of Directors. Carnegie-Mellon University stands within region 
five; our regional representative is Kerry 
Greenwald, a pre-law major at C-MU.
During the spring semester of 1973, 
Kerry attended the NSLs second annual 
conference in Washington. For three days 
650 students from 43 states discussed is
sues of student interest and the recent legi
slative acts which could adversely affect student concerns.
The conferences also serve to consoli
date the membership into a field structure.
The twelve members of the Board of Di
rectors elect a chairman or executive di
rector. The executive director consolidates 
the staff of the NSL into a team to insure 
efficient operation. He is the acting presi
dent and official spokesman of the NSL, 
implementing policy and clarifying the 
NSLs guidelines.
A secondary director, the * director-at-large, must insure that student minor
ities have a fair representative in the 
decision-making considerations (or as
pects) of the NSL, and acts as a mediator. 
The NSL uses an internal system of checks 
and balances to order the organization and 
its activities. Members of the Board of Di
rectors are responsible for the operation of 
the NSL in that they have the power to 
authorize policy changes in emergency situ
ations without consulting the entire mem
bership,(calling the membership,i. e. board, 
to vote). The hierarchal supervision of the 
NSL insures tis effectiveness as a lobby
In 1972 the NSL was instrumental in 
the allotment of one billion dollars to the 
Basic Opportunity Grants program. NSL 
also successfully persuaded Congress to su
pport placing students on jjoards of trus
tees; this became the Harris Amendment 
to the Higher Education Bill
Presently NSL is lobbying to persuade 
legislators to override Nixons veto of the 
HEW appropriations. If the presidents veto 
remains effective, institutions of higher 
education throughout the country will lose 
$436million in funds. All student loans and 
scholarships such as National Defense 
Loans, work-study programs, and other 
educational programs will undergo drastic 
reductions.
The experimental BOG program, the Ba
sic Opportunity Grants, came into opera
tion just this year, giving the eligible col
lege freshman $600 in aid to be spent at his 
discretion at the university of his choice. 
Needless to say this is the first time the 
students and not the institution have re
ceived educational imbursement. And ex
panded BOG program would give needy 
college upperclassmen $1,400 in aid, again
a sum placed directly into the hands of the student. The expanded BOG program will 
be activated only if the HEW appropriat
ions survive Nixons veto.
Bell-lets rip them off whenever we can.  Dean Swank firs* learned of the 
Treasurers plan in August, and pointed out 
that such a proposed charge would require 
a change in the text of the Student Hand
book. The Dean stated, It is unreasonable 
to impose a new charge without giving the students an opportunity to discuss it, and, 
in view of the budget, to propose alternate 
savings (to the Treasurers Office) if they 
wanted to keep the free chech cashing ser
vice. Swank asked the Treasurer to delay 
his plans until there had been a chance to 
discuss the matter with Student Senate, 
and to consider a change in the Student 
Handbook.
Luster thought Swanks arguments were 
reasonable, and agreed to put off any 
charge until at least the first of November. 
In its second meeting the Student Senate 
brought up the matter of the proposed 
charge, and also pointed out the opportun
ity to suggest changes in the operation of 
the Cashiers Office, such as allowing 
students paychecks to be cashed there. It 
was also questioned whether the 15 cent
figure for cashing checks was too high. The 
General Campus Committee and the 
Faculty Senate Executive Committee were 
asked to investigate the problem and 
present recommendations.
The Faculty Senate Council of Student 
Affairs examined the matter in its October 
16 meeting. The Council reacted with two 
motions. The first recommended that the 
University, before adding more service fees 
(such as student activities fees, etc.) 
conduct a thorough marketing study to 
determine whether students and their 
parents would prefer the present policy of 
service fees separate from tuition (on the theory that only the people who use a 
service would pay for it) or whether the 
inconvenience of this system leads parents 
and students to prefer an all-inclusive 
tuition charge. The second motion urged 
that the check cashing charge not be 
imposed until such a survey had been 
completed.
President Cyert has authorized Dean 
Swank, along with Treasurer Luster, to 
consider the modification of the
Treasurers original plan if some reasonable 
proposal were to come from the Student 
Senate.
At an Administration Management 
Policy meeting it became clear that no fee 
would become effective before second 
semester, and the idea of consulting with 
Student Senate in matters such as this one 
was reconfirmed.
It is important to note the fact that 
because the budget for the operation of the 
Treasurers Office was so tight this year, 
and because the check cashing service takes 
so. great an amount of the time of one 
employee, consideration had originally 
been given to dropping the check cashing 
service altogether. It was thought that the 
service could be maintained if the cost of 
one employee could be recovered through 
the charge on cashing checks. Since much 
serious thought had been given to dropping 
the service, Dean Swank expressed the 
hope that a way of retaining the service 
could be worked out to avoid the obvious 
problems of students carrying larger 
amounts of cash with them on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973 Page 7
Letters:
continued from page 7.
Editor:
The next time Michael Baum sets out to 
write an article maligning the U.F.O. rules 
it would be nice if he at least got the facts 
straight. I was present when he walked into 
a fraternity house inquiring about the big 
hassle in which a fraternity had been 
fined $100 for violation of the rush rules. 
Needless to say, his information turned out 
to be 100% fabricated. He interviewed a 
few people anyway and had to settle for an 
article about how these unjust rules were 
hurting the smaller houses. The major 
assertion of the article is that the smaller 
fraternities need extensive leisure time for 
freshmen to communicate with the 
brothers, while the rules do not permit 
freshmen to visit any fraternity house 
except during the designated official rush 
social functions. He goes on to say that 
the rule expires at the end of rush (October 
29). Had Mr. Baum bothered to try and 
verify his information, he would have 
found that freshmen are welcome to visit 
fraternities any time of the week except 
from 6:30 p.m. Friday until 8:00 a.m. 
Sunday, and are also welcome during this 
restricted time period when there is an 
official rush event. Furthermore, the rush 
rules expire not on October 29, but on 
October 17, leaving almost two weeks 
before pledge night for open rush.David Galdi
Editor:
I would like to comment on Dr. 
Sappingtons offering of more precise in
formation about the psychology depart
ment. As the author of the article, I feel it 
should be pointed out that its purpose was 
to expose the views of Dr. Gregg, the new 
head of the psychology department and all 
the comments were derived from a taped 
conversation we carried on. When I asked 
Dr. Gregg about the programs of experi
mental versus clinical psychology, he 
simply replied there is no clinical 
psychology except in the form of the 
counseling center and certain first level 
courses. Dr. Gregg believed that not having 
a medical school in a sense stifled a clinical 
programs development.
It is certainly admirable that Dr. 
Sappington wishes to commend the work 
of the psychology department and uphold 
its reputation. I did not mean to criticize 
the department, rather to clarify my under
standing of the departments philosophy.
Dr. Gregg further expressed some agree
ment with Dr. Weber and President Cyert 
upon the idea that Carnegie-Mellon is 
striving to be an institution of excellence. 
This excellence can be facilitated by 
specializing in certain areas, one of these 
being experimental psychology with highly 
competent faculty.
The question now arises on how Dr. 
Sappingtons view of clinical psychology at 
C-MU seems to differ from Dr. Greggs 
perspective. There is a real inconsistency 
between Dr. Sappingtons view of clinical 
psychology and Dr. Greggs view of it at 
C-MU. It is alarming that such a failure to 
communicate is apparent between the 
Head of a department and one of its 
professors. I would hope the outcome of 
this letter may be an exchange of ideas 
between these two respected scholars.Debbie Siegel
Editor:
Once again, I want to thank you for 
providing the impetus and the forum for 
discussion of H&SS problems. The fullpage spread that you gave my reply in the 
issue of October 9 provided one of the best 
opportunities I have ever had to explore 
publicly the modern language requirement~or any other H&SS problem; 
and I am grateful. Since you wrote an 
editorial in reply to my statement, I 
thought that I ought to respond once 
more.
In the second reply, Id like to address 
myself to two matters that you raise: my 
relationship with the H&SS College 
Council; and the requirement of 12 units 
of a modern language at the intermediate 
level -(rather than, I assume, at the 
elementary level).
It is true, as you said in your editorial, 
that the College Council is advisory to the 
dean. I do not think that it is true that I 
overruled the Council on the grading 
system in the spring of 1972. Let me give 
you the facts, and you can judge for your
self.
At the meeting of March 22, 1973, the 
following motion was put to a vote: 
Students should have options, course by 
course, for either ABC/No Entry or 
Credit/No Entry. Instructors should 
continue to provide evaluations in all 
courses. The vote was:
For Against
Faculty 3 8
Students 8 0
I suppose that simply by adding up the 
votes, one could say that the Council had 
voted for the motion. But it was also 
clear that the Council had not arrived at 
any kind of consensus that was useful 
advice for me: all of the students were
lined up on one side of the issue and most
of the faculty on the other. I did not, 
however, then go off and decide by myself 
what to do. Instead, I took the matter back 
to the next session of the Council.
Here is the relevant portion of the 
minutes from the Council meeting of April 
5:
Dean Steinberg opened this portion 
of the meeting with a short discussion 
of the College Council as a mechanism 
by which representatives of the various 
constituencies to the College could offer 
collective advice to the dean. He 
pointed out that the size and public 
nature of the Council seemed to lead 
Council members to take advocacy 
stances rather than to seek agreement, 
as did the pressure to achieve closure on 
matters so that meetings would not drag 
on. The vote on a college grading system 
taken at the Council meeting of March 
22 (students 8 to 0 in favor of the 
motion, faculty 8 to 3 against it) was 
not advice that he felt was very useful 
and he asked that the Council continue 
to consider the problem until it arrived 
at some concensus. (He also pointed out 
that in addition to the offering of advice 
two other important functions of the 
Council are to inform and to educate.)
At that meeting and the two following 
meetings (April 12 and April 26), the 
Council spent many additional hours 
discussing the problem of grades. On April 
26 it arrived at a consensus, the grading 
system under which we now operate. Once 
again, here is the relevant portion of the 
minutes:
The Councils final decision on 
grades was that:
1. students will be given grades in all 
courses unless they specifically arrange
(see 2, below) for pass/fail in some or all 
of their courses;
2. a committee or committees will be 
set up to which students may make re
quests to take some or all of their 
courses pass/fail (Dean Steinberg will 
work with the departmentheads to de
velop a procedure which will throw as 
much responsibility as possible for such 
decisions on the departments and yet 
maintain some reasonable college 
policy;
3. honest, informative evaluations, as 
complete as possible, will continue for 
all H&SS students in all courses;
4. once a student has opted for 
pass/fail in a course and such a grade is 
submitted by the instructor, the student 
can not request that the grade be 
changed to a grade on the A,B,C} scale 
(i.e. a pass can not be changed into a 
letter grade retroactively nor vice versa.)
I then implemented that decision.
The current grading system in H&SS, 
therefore, was arrived at by concensus as a 
result of long and open discussion in Coun
cil meetings. (Students other than Council 
members were frequently there, as were 
reporters from the TARTAN.) I didnt 
overrule the Council. Rather, I kept the 
Council working at the problem until it 
arrived at a solution that most Council 
members found acceptable.
I have never acted contrary to the ad
vice of the College Council. I may feel 
some day that I have to, but it is not an 
action that I will take lightly or without 
wide consultation. I do ask the Council to 
give me advice which, as far as possible, is 
not divisive. That is what happened on 
grading in the spring of 1972.
Now let me address the issue of why the 
Council and I define proficiency in a mod
ern language as 12 units at the intermediate 
level. I think the words speak for them
selves. A course at the elementary level 
(elementary French, elementary Spanish, 
etc.) is, as it says, elementary. It is an 
introductory course. No course that 1 
know of that is labeled elementary 
claims to give its students proficiency in 
anything.
You say that the language requirement 
is more rigorous than any other. I dont 
believe that is so. In high school, students 
take four years of English and three or four 
years of history. They take two, three, or 
four years of a language. When they arrive 
here we require of them work in English 
and history beyond the three or four years 
done in high school. If an applicant can 
demonstrate competence at the college lev
el by performance at the college level on an 
Advanced Placement Exam, we do not re
quire him to take a college level course in 
that subject. The language requirement 
works exactly the same way. If a student 
has taken three or four years of a language 
in high school, he or she can demonstrate 
competence at the college level on the Col
lege Board Achievement Test or on a stan
dardized test that we give here ( a test 
prepared by the Modern Language Associ
ation). If the student can not demonstrate 
that competence, we ask him or her to 
develop it--not in an elementary, introduc
tory course, which is for beginners, but in 
one intermediate level course.
Is that arbitrary? 1 suppose it is. Any 
requirement is by definition arbitrary. We 
say that all the colleges at CMU require 
both breadth and depth. That is arbitrary. 
Letting students earn a degree by choosing 
a smorgasboard of courses to total 384 
units is less arbitrary, but still arbitrary. 
Why 384? Why not 354? Or 284? Or 254?
You say that the TARTAN does not
advocate that the modern language require
ment be abolished. Im glad to learn that. 
The TARTAN, to my knowledge, has never 
made such a clear statement on the matter.
I take it, then, that we differ on the level 
of proficiency (or competence, or rigor-to 
use the word that you added to the discus
sion in your last editorial) of the language 
requirement. That is something that men 
and women of intelligence and good will 
can--and clearly do--disagree about. For ev
ery faculty member, for example, who may 
feel that one 12 unit course is too high a 
requirement, I suspect there is one (or 
more) who feels that it is too low. I will 
never find clear agreement on such matters, 
so I seek consensus, which is the way ra
tional men and women of good will 
operate.
You raise the matter of equivalent math 
and science requirements. 1 am looking for
ward to the day when we can ask all of our 
students to demonstrate mathematical 
competence at the level of the calculus. 
Some H&SS students now come to us with 
that competence. A much larger number, 
about one in five the last time I looked, 
satisfy the math requirement by taking cal
culus. Since our students arrive better and 
better prepared each year, I hope that in 
the not too distant future all of our stu
dents will either have had calculus in high 
school or will take it, or some other math 
at an equivalent level of sophistication, 
when they get here.
1 find little merit in the argument that 
because most H&SS students are more 
competent in language than they are in 
math, we should reduce the language re
quirement to that lower level of com
petence. Neither students nor universities 
achieve excellence by setting their goals at 
the lowest level of competence attainable 
by any of its students.
Im afraid that I cant agree, either, with 
your statement that If a student is going 
to loaf his way through college, hes going 
to do it anyway. That way lies the death 
of the college. We will prosper only by 
attracting students who strive for 
excellence.
Thank you for listening and for broad
casting what 1 have to say so that others 
may also listen. Whatever the results of our 
exchanges of statements, H&SS and CMU 
will be the stronger for the TARTANs 
having made them possible.
Erwin R. Steinberg Dean
CARNEGIE MELLON 
TRAVEL OFFICE 
Now Located
SKIBO 40A
Open Daily 
1 p.m. - 5 p.m.
RUGS
for
with your ID Cord 9x12s *15. *19, $29, tN olso 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x1So
Alto I! IftdtJil rtiferry ruq* nA MtprU^I. lew 
pricM ori*ntl rufi Pa m*f tiaM. 
ASK AtOUT DISCOUNT FUtNITUtl
CHASE'S
!
I
19 .n.   p.m. it. til I \
'I For diracti* ctl 421-10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-^-THE TARTANTuesday, October 23, 1973
Interview:
by Rob Simbeck
(Gerry Costanzo is a nationally published poet, an Assistant Professor of English at C-MU, and the founder and editor 
of his own publishing house, Three Rivers 
Press.
/ was interested in how Gerry, as a poet, 
functions within the university. So, after his October 9 reading in Breed Hall, / 
grabbed a tape recorder and steered him to the Elbow Room in Shadyside. The result 
follows.)
Rob: Are you comfortable being a poet at a University which is primarily concerned with science and engineering?
Gerry: I thought your opening question 
was going to be, When did you discover 
that the pen was mightier than the sword? 
Are you sure that's not the question you 
want to ask?R: No, but you can answer it.
G: What I want to say right away is that 
I haven't made that discovery yet--not only 
in my writing, but in my whole life. Im 
continually working. . .R: Toward proving that the pen is mightier?
G: Right exactly. Now what was your 
first question?R: Are you comfortable being a poet at CMU?
G: Yes. (Pause) You know. I've been 
reading some interviews lately in literary 
journals, to see what kinds of questions 
poets get asked. And I've been thinking of 
conducting an interview with the Eight-Ball 
Poet, in the Three Rivers Poetry Journal. 
Did you ever see one of those eight-balls 
when you were a kid?R: Yeah, my sister had one.
G: Well, Id ask him a question like, 
Galway Kinnell once said in an interview 
that the complications of life, both prac
tical and emotional, brought on for him 
periods of depression during which he 
could not write. Do you have and such dry 
periods? And the Eight-Ball Poet would 
answer, You may rely on it, or Ask 
again later, or The signs are favorable. 
Now what was your first question?R: (Pause) I think it was, Are you comfortable as a poet in a primarily technical school? "
G: Well, I dont think much about that.
I think the English Department at CMU 
provides a healthy and comfortable atmos
phere for a Creative Writing Option. For 
example, when I wanted to found Three 
Rivers Press and Three Rivers Poetry 
Journal, I felt I had the support of the 
people in my department, the Dean and 
everyone who was involved in it.R: I was thinking more along the lines of how much attention the University pays to the program. For example, the new Provost system groups GSIA and SUPA with H&SS. And theres been talk recently of putting more emphasis into the social sciences and technical writing in H&SS.
G: Yes, Ive heard about that. This 
sounds like a political question and I'm 
inclined to shy away from it, but I think 
the University has shown real support in 
terms of the Visiting Writers we brought to 
the camnus last year, and in terms of the 
finance and facilities weve been given for 
Three Rivers Press. Just the fact that the 
Creative Writing Option exists suggests a 
positive commitment on the part of the 
University.
So I cant see that there's been any 
problem there at all. And 1 don't think its 
a bad thing if we drift a little bit toward 
technical writing. 1 think one of the inter
esting things about the Writing Option is 
that there are all kinds of employment 
opportunities which can come out of it. I 
would say that any kind of writing is cre
ative writing. One of my ex-students, for 
example, lives in Carlisle, where he writes 
for a local newspaper and is the editor of 
the newsletter for Kinneys Shoes. Well, 
theres a lot of money in that sort of thing.
FLAGPOLE SITTER
Remember? I perched 
atop those flagless
poles of the Fifties 
and waited. This
was at carnivals, 
grand openings of gas
stations, and state 
centennials. I was
up there with my summer 
cold like a kid hiding
in his treehouse from 
mom. You waved
when you passed, wondering 
why I did it. When I
broke the record I came 
down and slept for
weeks. I was all the 
rage then. But I
knew no fame or any 
reason for my act; only
as with a man who keeps 
both feet on the
ground, the alleged 
fact of time.
Copyright 1973 by Gerald Costanzo. From 
South Moccasin, published by Peaceweed 
Press.
I think the guy has a very good job, he 
likes it very much, and hes writing for a 
utilitarian purpose. And theres nothing 
wrong with that. The training he had in 
fiction, poetry and in other kinds of writ
ing at CMU helped prepare him for that 
job, and hes been successful. On an under
graduate level a fairly broad background in 
the different genres is what a person ought 
to have. Its what a writer really needs, and
C-MU
I think thats what CMU is providing.R: How do you want to see the program develop? What do you want to see the Creative Writing Option do here?
G: Well, Its still a fairly new Option 
which was really brought about by Gladys 
Schmitts attempt to form such a program. 
I was essentially a product of that kind of 
program at Hopkins, the same way that 
Dave Walton, who came the same year I 
did, came out of the program at the Uni
versity of California at Irvine. The program 
here was expanding, and we became its 
junior members. I dont know; thats a 
tough question. What do I hope to see for 
the Option? I think were in a rather con
fused state since Gladys death. As you 
know, we were not successful in hiring one 
of last years visiting writers for this year, 
so weve brought some more visiting wri
ters this year to handle specific courses. 
Im referring to Paul Zimmer, now in Po
etry Workshop III, and William Meredith, 
who will be teaching both fiction and 
poetry this spring. Were hopeful that we 
will be able to hire a prominent writer for 
next year. We may be in the final stages of 
that search now. In addition to completing 
the staff, my hope would be that some
where along the line well produce some 
very good writers who will eventually be 
recognized in their chosen genres. But I 
think we provide something for each stu
dent who majors in the Creative Writing 
Option: the potential for a career in teach
ing and writing, as Ive mentioned before, 
and an opportunity to learn to write, to 
express themselves in a competent and 
engaging manner.
R: Getting back to Three Rivers Press. How did it come about?
G: I founded the Press initially to pub
lish a book of Dick OKeefes poems. Hes 
a friend of mine, and he had written a 
number of excellent poems over the years, 
and was never fortunate enough to have a 
book of his accepted for publication. So I 
asked him if I might publish a book of his. 
It was as simple as that. Then I learned 
how to publish books. But it seemed to me 
in accordance with a prospectus that 
Gladys Schmitt has written about the Cre
ative Writing Option we should have a mag
azine. And I think she intended a national 
magazine. What I hoped to do initially was 
to get funding through the University by 
which we could publish a number of stu
dent works alongside those of more wellknown writers. Initially the only funding 
we could get came from the Student 
Government Association.R: For the first Aia mhpMw?
G: Yes, and we founded Aia mhpMw 
which then became A?d FhSxhpM Hdztdig 
But Dean Swank informed me that we 
werent able, because of that financial situ
ation, to include the writing of anyone 
who was not on campus. So A?d FhSxhpM 
Hdztdi has continued to publish writers on 
campus, and I think thats a good thing, 
but I thought we needed to branch out h 
little bit. So essentially what I wanted to 
do with the Press and the magazine ihw to 
publish some of the writers on campus who 
I thought deserved more attention nation
ally, and also to bring the work of people 
who were getting national attention to our 
campus.
Weve made an effort to be as eclectic as 
possible in our selection. Were not trying 
to publish any particular school of poetry,
Pdeft
we just try to publish the best things we 
receive. So far weve published, or are 
about to publish, poems and reviews by 
four members of the faculty, a graduate 
student, and two undergraduates.R: The Press and the magazine will obviously strengthen the reputation of the department. How much is that a reflection of the department, and how much is that a reflection of you as a poet and pusher of poetry?
G: I think, since we publish only con
temporary poetry and reviews of poetry, 
that its an accurate reflection of about 
one-half of the Creative Writing Option. Id 
like to see that reflection expanded. As far 
as my being a pusher of poetry is con
cerned, I intend to push the program as 
much as I can. I think any conscientious 
faculty member pushes his own program. I 
think theres ample evidence of that in our 
department: Tom Miles, Tom Perry, Concetta Greenfield and Peggy Knapp, the peo
ple who conducted the Medieval Semester, 
for example. There are a lot of people 
doing a lot of intersting things, and I hope 
Im one of them.R: Where is the funding for A?sdd 
Htzdsw Padesc Jalsphx coming from now?
G: At the moment we have a little mon
ey left from the initial funding we got last 
year from the University and from patrons. 
This year we were given a matching grant 
from the Pa. Council on the Arts. The 
University supplied both funds and an inkind contribution, which amounted to the 
office we have for the Press, and a workstudy student who has done a lot of workthings that have to do with the business 
end of the Press.R: Do you feel the Press is getting the attention you want?
G: Thats hard to say this early. I was 
fortunate enough to have published a lot of 
poems of my own last year, and I have 
several coming out this year in various mag
azines, ranging from the slicks to little 
magazines with circulations of about five 
hundred. Most of them appear in Universi
ty Quarterlies. And I simply mention to 
the editors, for their notes on contributors, 
that the magazine and the Press are in 
existence, and so weve been able to get a 
lot of what amounts to free publicity, and 
its generated some interest. I think the 
word has gotten around that we do have a 
magazine, which I think is a good maga
zine, and weve gotten a number of contri
butions. Now our problems are the same as 
those with any small press: problems of 
distribution. Right now, in addition to the 
book stores which carry our publications 
around the country, (they range from New 
York to L.A.) we have a growing subscrip
tion list to the magazine, a number of 
libraries, and were continuing to attempt 
to increase that list.R: Id like to get into your poetry. 
Youre obviously not in it for the money, 
and you said at the reading that if it was 
merely therapeutic youd have given it up 
long ago. So, if its not irrelevant or 
gauche, why do you write?
G: WE istetpr twp,e e?dshndletT e?dp W 
e?tpS str?e pai te olwe ud h Easo aE wdxEC
dpedsehtpodpeg 9hcud e?he odhpw te,w h 
Easo aE dwThndg W Tdsehtpxc ?and paeV ule 
e?he,w h nawwtutxtecgR: So you don 7 follow the keep your 
audience in mind" theory? Or do you?
G: W wlnnawd te,w ?hsM Eas hpc isteds

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 23, 1973-Page 9
really to know who his audience is. 1 sup
pose I do want to entertain in some sense, 
and 1 feel that if I can entertain myself 
then theres some chance I might be able to 
entertain my reader.R: You also said at the reading that you shy away from politics in your poetry. Does that stem from a personal theory of poetry? ?
G: I dont think of it as a theory. I 
Oppose it just reflects my own taste as a 
writer. I dont think I could write a line 
like Robert Bly wrote, in which he said, 
Men like (Dean) Rusk are not men. I 
keep going back to a line of F. Scott Fitz
geralds saying that he wanted to preach to 
people in some sort of acceptable form. 
And I think one of the things that means is 
a toning down of whatever your moral 
Viewpoint is. If you can achieve a balance 
between didacticism and, Ill call it enter
tainment, in your writing, that, at any rate, 
is what I hope to do.
R: Theres a difference between the poems in your books vale? 9aTThwtp and 
khMxhpMwg I presume vale? 9aTThwtp contains earlier poems.
G: Yes, theyre earlier.
> R: In vale? 9aTThwtp you seem to be more concerned with presenting the essence of a dramatic situation. Im thinking of things like For Four Newsmen Murdered in Saigon Toward San Francisco and Revenge ; whereas in khMxhpMw you seem to be moving toward more generalized ideas, such as cutting through peoples pompousness and pretentions...
G: Mostly theyre my own pomp and 
pertentions.
R: For instance, in How to Teach Creative Writing and Why He Writes Poems Instead of His Congressman  you seem to be getting into-its either didacticism or anti-didacticism.
G: I would characterize those two 
poems as state of mind poems. Theres 
much less of a literal kind of action in 
those poems. (Pause) Its hard to talk about the difference. Its very difficult to 
paraphrase what one has done in an indi
vidual poem, much less a whole series of 
poems, or a style of poetry. In the first 
place, I guess my style has changed, and 
the kind of image Im interested in writing 
has changed a great deal. Initially I was 
writing about situations which were in fact 
literal ones, ones which I had experienced 
or had been told about. The people I was 
writing about were real people, and I was 
attempting somehow to understand their 
actions. Now I seem to be speculating 
about a number of things which are going 
on around me. In the state of mind poems 
the images are not as concrete or as unified 
as they were in the earlier poems.
R: There also seems to be a lot more humor in Badlands.
G: Yes, and theres another book com
ing out shortly, containing poems that 
were written before those in Badlands and 
I think the humor in that is even more 
evident. I dont know what to say about 
the humor except that here again it grows 
out of some kind of attempt at self
entertainment.
R: You use Western scenes and images 
quite a bit in your poetry. Its obviously at 
least partly a result of your Oregon back
ground, but does the West hold any special 
romance for you ?
Jf aV te shtpw tp Fsdrap h xaeg 9dxhpC
T?axcV W wlnnawdV ule W Map,e wdd te as 
saohpetTg W Map,e TapwtMds ocwdxE a sdC
rtaphx istedsg Wp e?d dhsxtds nadowV te ihw 
wtonxc e?d wlu.dTe oheeds W ?hM he e?d etodg 
They sdExdTedM i?dsd W ihw EsaoV hpM idsd 
huale e?tprw e?he W knew. A?d nadow W,o
If writing isnt therapeutic then I 
think right now it must be a form 
of self-entertainment. 
writing now dont reflect where I am phys
ically, Theyre more concerned with where 
I am mentally.R: What about the change in form? You re writing shorter lines and you consistently use two or three-line stanzas.
G: Somebody mentioned that to me the 
other day, that Im writing more in coup
lets now. I began doing that because I was 
interested in getting more visual space be
tween the images I was making, and also 
because of the tension that enjambment 
and that visual space create.R: Getting into influences again. You were a boyhood Catholic. Does that carry over into your poetry?
G: I dont know. 1 cant explain how a 
number of those images, which are essen
tially Catholic images, got into the poems, 
other than to say that it seemed to me that 
in using figurative language, my teachings 
were rich in possibilities for simile and 
metaphor.R: And myth?
G: And myth. But there came a point in 
my life, which I think is evident in the 
poem Toward San Francisco, at which I 
found it very difficult to believe not only 
in the Church, but in an afterlife. And yet 
some of those Catholic images still linger.R: Was yours a rigid or staunch Catholic upbringing?
G: No. I didnt go to Catholic schools, 
and I ordinarily think of that, along with 
strict parental upbringing, as what one 
would consider being rigid or staunch. But 
I was in catechism classes every Saturday, 
learning what it is I couldnt learn during 
the week in the Public School. And in the 
West, football and baseball games began on 
T.V. at about 10:30 in the morning, and I 
always felt that giving up my Saturdays 
may have been more rigid and staunch than 
going to the Catholic schools.R: What were your reactions to the reading?
G: My own reading?R: Yes.
G: Well, I suppose that in reading at 
Carnegie-Mellon I was much more selfconscious than I usually am when I read. I 
think the difference between reading a 
poem and writing one is vast. When youre 
reading a poem which youve written to 
other people, its a kind of performance, so 
in a sense you have to be concerned not 
only about the quality of your poems but 
about your ability as an actor or entertain
er as well. I think when Im an anonymous 
figure Im much less self-conscious, and as 
a result, much freer in my delivery than I 
was in front of this audience, where most 
of the people knew me. But about the 
middle of the reading, I was able to calm 
myself down. Thats the only reading Ive 
ever prefaced with what amounts to a posi
tion paper on the way I write. I felt there 
was a good chance that a number of the 
people at the reading who were not stu
dents of mine probably would not have 
read much contemporary poetry, or heard 
any. And so I wanted to talk, perhaps in a 
round about way, about whats happening 
in contemporary poetry. You have respon
sibilities to an audience. Probably the 
foremost , is preparing them for what 
theyre going to hear.
R: Wouldnt it be more likely that
youd have a bigger jcb of audiencepreparing to do in your readings in other cities?
G: No. In reading in a city where Im an 
anonymous figure, a visiting writer^ the 
people who come to that kind of reading 
are primarily those who would come to 
hear a contemporary poet, rather than 
Gerald Costanzo, as was the case at 
Carnegie-Mellon.R: So then the reading here was more of an event than a sharing of modern poetry?
G: Well, my feeling for the reading was 
that I was going to attempt to share what it 
was that Id been doing, both as a writer 
and a teacher, and I hope I accomplished 
that.R: Out of all the readings Ive been to in the last few years at CMU, I think yours was one of the best audiences Ive seen, both in terms of attendance and reaction to the reading, which must have been very obvious to you.
G: I was very pleased. I must say I was 
very taken with the warmth of the 
applause afterwards. I think Ive always 
had a good association with my students 
and colleagues so I was very pleased with 
their response.R: Usually when a teacher reads his own poems in a class, theres an analytical element involved that isnt there in a reading. They 're used to make a technical point, or to talk about how the teacher personally goes about writing a poem. So it becomes a matter of analyzing it, whereas at a reading youre involved with the emotional experience of a poem.
G: Yes, its a different process. And this 
is one of the reasons that its good to have 
practicing writers as teachers, because of 
the immediate problems one tries to point 
out in his own work--that is, in con
structing a poem. And I think its 
important that a practicing writer who is 
also a teacher not only bring in those 
poems in which he seems to have 
succeeded in one way or another, but to 
bring in a number of the failures. And, 
believe me, there are a lot more failures 
than successes. I suppose that for every 
poem Ive written which I consider good, I 
must have ten or more which arent good, 
or which have never been completed. I 
used to worry about which poet I was-the 
one who had written a few good poems or 
the one who had stacks and stacks of 
poems which werent any good at all.R: Is the ratio getting lower?
G: No, I think its probably getting 
greater. I expect more from what I write 
now than I ever have. I hope things 
continue that way.
R: The poet as showman idea brings to mind Dickey. Would you give me some of your impressions, either of his poetry or his reading style?
G: I think on the page Dickey is one of 
the most interesting poets Ive ever read, 
hes certainly among the more con
temporary American poets. But I dont 
think Id attempt to pattern my readings 
after his.R: Is there just too much in the way of show?
G: Well, 1 dont know. I think probably 
some people in that audience were very 
taken with Dickey, and others werent. It 
depends on what you expect. Theres a 
kind of stereotype of a poet: that hes a 
wild man, that hes an alcoholic, that you 
ought not to let him on the campus 
because hes more interested in coeds than 
in teaching, but I dont think that stereo
type really fits most of the poets I know.R: Do you think thats what Dickey gave them?
G: Well, Im not so sure ....R: I guess thats a leading question.
G: Yes. Im not so sure it was dishonest 
at all from Dickeys point of view. Theres 
always the chance that maybe thats the 
way he really is. (pause) 1 was interested in 
the figure Dickey gets for a particular 
reading. I think its what I would call an 
astronomically high one for a poet. He 
once read somewhere that cartoonist A1 
Capp gets $3,500 for a lecture, and Dickey 
decided that if A! Capp was worth $3,500 
that certainly every poet he knew was 
worth that much.R: Im trying to think of a way to close, and I dont want to get into anything gauche. You don t hold any, uh ...
G: Am I a member of any school?R: Thats good, but thats not my last one.
G: No.R: Ok. How about the poet as different from person in general? Is there a difference?
G: Oh, I dont think theres any 
difference except that maybe he parti
cipates in the illogic around him a little 
longer before he tries to make logic of it.R: You dont think the need for expression makes. .. ? ,
G: There are all kinds of forms of ex
pression. I think everyone expresses him
self in some way. Mine just happens to be 
poetry. I suppose it used to be mountain 
climbing and editing my high school 
newspaper, playing football and basketball. 
In college the way I expressed myself was 
in trying to be a good student. As with a 
lot of other people, I keep changing, and I 
hope I continue to.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANTuesday, October 23, 1973
Fechtor
continued from page 1 
popular music.
Steve mentioned that Lord Have Mer
cy may be re-written for an off-Broadway 
production. There are two producers 
looking at my work and one who's 
specifically interested in the possibility 
suggests a revised edition of it. The book 
would be totally rewritten and I assume I'd 
have to do some more work on the music. 
It's just in the preliminary stage right now. 
I got to New York on September 18th and 
the day after we moved in 1 got a call from 
this producer. So its kind of exciting.
Fechtor, who majored in pre-law at 
CMU is not interested in attending law 
school. It's there somewhere. To tell you 
the truth 1 said it when I was there. The 
student defined major is a very good pro
gram while youre in school. Unless you are 
trained for something specific, then you're 
really nowhere job wise and when you get 
out of school you better know dictation 
and how to type or be a secretary. Im very
pleased I made the decision to come to 
New York because Im getting all the en
couragement I could want.
Steve married Laurie Mazur who grad
uated from CMU last year also. They are 
hoping to return to Pittsburgh for the win
ter production of Scotchn'Soda. As for 
future plans, Steve commented, Id like to 
do what Im doing and hopefully be suc
cessful at it. Ive got my foot in the door 
and now I just have to get the rest of me 
in.
(A record for A New Day was pro
duced. However, only a tape was made for 
Lord Have Mercy. Anybody interested 
in obtaining a recording should contact 
Paul Neuberry. a CMU student who tapes 
the music for ScotchnSoda. )
Human Sexuality
continued from page 1
movie was featured before the lecture 
broke up into small discussion groups.
The movie, which, according to Dr. 
Goldstein was better than most, was a fail
ure. It was a cross between a scientific film
and an art film. Unfortunately, it failed in 
both categories.
The lecture, intended for both sexes, 
was predominantly attended by females.
The Human Sexuality lectures, funded 
by President Cyert, meet every Wednesday 
from October 17 to November 28. Each
week a different topic will be discussed by 
an authority in the field. The meetingf 
which are held in Breed Hall in Margaret 
Morrison are at 8:oo pm. each week.
Other subjects to be covered in the lec
tures are birth control, abortion, 
homosexuality, and venereal disease.
vdTlstec aetTdf ea hxx I9 ndswappdx hpM welMdpewV nhsetTlxhsxc Taooledsw
Wanted for between 40 and 50 counts of armed robbery with knife:
Description-B/M 25 years, 62, 195 lbs, dark complexion, Afro, pinkish mark on 
lower lip. Always, wears boots.
M.O.^Hitch hikes in Shadyside area, usually between 4 p.m.12 midnight, (Elmer 
St.Ivy St.)
Makes statement like My wife is in the hospital, can you run me into Oakland.
When in the vicinity of Robinson St., above Presbyterian Hospital, pulls knife and 
demands money.
Assaults with knife if resisted, so far 4 assaults. .
If you see someone who fits this description, please notify the Security Office 
immediately at 621-2620 (Baker Hall).
Were looking for 
200 hardware - oriented 
BS(EE) and MS(EE) graduates.
We have more than 200 
openings for graduating en
gineers in our Equipment 
Engineering Divisions  the 
companys largest hardware 
design area. These openings 
include assignments in our 
Rotation and Fellowship pro
grams as well as full-time spe
cialized assignments.
If you have a yen to de
sign the actual components 
and subsystems for fire-con
trol radar, missiles, and so
phisticated sensors and guid
ance systems, we have just 
the opportunity for you.
You will need a BS(EE) 
or MS(EE). You will need 
talent, too because youll 
be working side by side with 
some of the best engineers in 
the business.
Your future with Hughes 
will be up to you. Therell be 
plenty of opportunity for advancement^because were a 
company thats steadily
growing. While other aero
space companies have suf
fered cutbacks and layoffs, 
weve been setting new sales 
records and our employment 
record has been exceptionally 
stable. Today were at work 
on more than 550 programs 
and projects in 80 disciplines.
CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS
November 6
Contact College Placement Office to arrange interview appointment.
HUGHES !II___________________________I
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
U.S. citizenship required Equal opportunity M/F employer
This year we especially 
need electro-optical, micro
circuit, guidance and controls, 
components and materials, 
circuit design, product design, 
laser, and radar engineers, and 
systems programmers.
It may be that more than 
one employment area of our 
company will be recruiting on 
your campus on the same day. 
Please try to sign up on the 
schedule that is most appro
priate for you. It will not be 
necessary to have more than 
one interview, although you 
may if there is time.
For additional informa
tion, please contact your Col
lege Placement Director or 
if we are not scheduled to 
recruit on your campuswrite: Mr. Robert A. Martin, 
Head of Employment, Equip
ment Engineering Divisions, 
Hughes Aircraft Company, 
11940 W. Jefferson Blvd., 
Culver City, CA 90230.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23,..1973r-Page 11
entertainment
Alvin Lee Sanders, Richard Ericson
Hold that Tiger...
al wdd e?dwd ntTelsdw Esao Does A 
Tiger Wear A Necktie?, e?d Tlssdpe Dshoh 
Ddnhseodpe 9htpwehrd nsaMlTetapg al 
itxx pae wdd h sdztdi aE e?d nxhc ?dsdV 
isteedp uc od as hpcapd dxwdg as itxx hpc 
aE e?d ae?ds wluwdKldpeI 9htpwehrd nsaC
MlTetapw ud sdztdidM tp e?d A1HA1g
yhwe cdhs e?sdd aE e?d Eals 9htpwehrd 
nsaMlTetapw idsd sdztdidM tp e?d A1HA1g 
Ve Gaslight ihw sdztdidM uc h welMdpe i?a 
?hw wtpTd eshpwEdssdM ea hpae?ds wT?aaxg W 
sdztdidM Twelfth Night hpM Clutchrider. 
Luisitanian Bogey Edxx uc e?d ihcwtMd i?dp 
pa apd ihw hzhtxhuxd ea Tazds teg W ?hM Elxxc 
tpedpMdM ea wihrrds hsalpM sdztditpr
9htpwehrd w?aiw xdEe hpM str?e e?tw cdhsg W 
?hM pa tMdh e?he e?d Dshoh Ddnhseodpe 
aEEtTthxxc au.dTedM ea udtpr sdztdidM tp 
?dsdV as hpci?dsd dxwdV Eas e?he oheedsg 
"?dp xhwe iddS W ThxxdM e?d Dshoh
Ddnhseodpe hpM ihw sdElwdM wndTthx
TstetT,w etTSdew as wdhewV W weasodM azds ea 
ehxS ite? 6hsxd JtwedsV ?dhM aE e?d Dshoh 
DdnhseodpeV huale e?tw papIsdztditpr
naxtTc i?tT? ihw hxx pdi ea odg
We wddow e?he te ?hw hxihcw uddp e?d 
Mdnhseodpe naxtTc pae ea ?hzd e?dts nxhcw 
sdztdidMg dsehtpxcV Jtweds dOnxhtpdMV ?d 
Thppae slp azds ea e?d A1HA1 aEEtTd hpM 
edhs ln e?d rhxxdcwV ?d Thppae nawwtuxc wean 
od Esao istetpr h sdztdi; ?d ialxM .lwe 
nsdEds W MtMp,e isted teg "dxxV W idpe e?tal^t 
hxx e?d weaTS hsrlodpew huale e?d udpdEtew 
aE sdztdiwV aE TapweslTetzd TstetTtwo; e?d 
,tonasehpTd aE nsdnhstpr Mshohew Eas i?he 
e?dc,xx ud EhTtpr tp e?d sdhx iasxMg
| -"dxxV e?tw twp,e e?d sdhx iasxMVq Jtweds 
whtMg -A?dwd Mshoh welMdpew itxx ud EhTtpr 
dpalr? au.dTetzd TstetTtwo Esao e?dts nddswg 
A?dc Map,e pddM e?d dOedsphx nsdwwlsd aE h 
sdztdi ea ud TapTdspdM ite?gq
"dxx hpM raaMg W ndswaphxxc Eddx e?he hpc 
sdztdi hnndhstpr tp e?d A1HA1 tw 
isteedp Eas e?d udpdEte aE e?d oh.astec aE 
ndanxd tpzaxzdMg Wp e?d Thwd aE Mshoh 
TstetTtwoV e?tw tw hxihcw e?d hlMtdpTdg WE W 
idsd h nsaEdwwtaphx TstetTV te ialxM ud oc 
Mlec ea nsaoaed i?he W e?alr?e ihw 
iase?i?txdV hpM ea nsaedTe oc sdhMdsw 
Esao i?he W e?alr?e ialxM ud h ihwed aE
e?dts etodg "?dp W ho h nsaEdwwtaphx TstetTV 
hpM i?dp oc sdhMdsw?tn tw wndpMtpr sdhx 
Maxxhsw ap nsaEdwwtaphx e?dhesdV W itxx Eddx 
Esdd ea whc i?hedzds W ihpeg
9sg Jtweds,w natpe tw waodi?he 
idxxIehSdpg A?tw tw pae e?d sdhx iasxMV e?d 
9htpwehrd nsaMlTetapw hsd EsddV e?d hTeasw 
hsd wetxx welMdpewg PsdwlohuxcV tE cal ?hzd h 
etTSde hxsdhMc cal Elxxc tpedpM ea wdd e?d 
nxhc; nsdwlohuxc iasMIaEIoale? wnsdhM 
hsalpM e?d Thonlw Taoolptec tw wlEEtTtdpe 
Tstedsth uc i?tT? ea MdTtMd i?de?ds as pae 
cal w?hxx uae?ds ea rag 1xx W Spai tw / 
ialxM she?ds sdhM h sdztdi udEasd wddtpr h 
nxhcg Any nxhcg W,M nsauhuxc raV pa oheeds 
i?he e?d TstetT ?hM whtMV ule W,M ihpe ea 
Spai i?he W ihw ratpr ea wddg
vaV udThlwd e?tw twp,e hp astrtphx nxhcV W 
Thp edxx cal he xdhwe i?he cal Thp dOndTe 
ea wdd ndsEasodMg kle cal,xx wdd phsc h 
wlu.dTetzd n?shwd ?dsdV xdwe Jtweds,w uxaaM 
w?alxM TlsMxdg
Does A Tiger Wear A Necktie? tw huale 
hp twxhpM i?tT? tw h Mslr sd?hutxtehetap 
Tdpeds Eas .lzdptxdwg A?d nxhc EaTlwdw ap h
edhT?ds he e?d TdpedsV hpM ?tw ohtp TapExtTe 
tw ite? ktTS?hoV apd aE e?d .lpStdwg A?d 
nxhc ?hw uddp TstetTtNdM Eas xhTStpr 
Mtodpwtaphx T?hshTedstNhetap hpM Eas udtpr 
odsd MaTlodpehetap she?ds e?hp esld 
Mshohg W ?hzd pae wddp Does A Tiger Wear 
A Necktie? cdeg A?tw tpEasohetap tw i?he W 
rhe?dsdM Esao ndslwtpr e?d nsaEdwwtaphx 
di asS TstetT,w sdztdiw aE e?d nxhcg
khwdM ap e?dwd sdztdiwV W ialxM xtSd ea 
wdd e?d nxhcg W ihpe ea wdd ?ai e?d Dshoh 
Ddnhseodpe Madw teg W ihpe ea wdd tE 1xztp 
ydd vhpMdswV i?a ihw e?saip ale aE e?d 
Dshoh Ddnhseodpe xhwe cdhsV Thp Ma hw 
olT? ite? e?d nhse aE ktTS?ho hw 1b 
PhTtpa MtM ite? teV itpptpr e?d Dshoh 
stetTw 1ihsMg W ihpe ea wdd tE Hg 6oode 
"hxN tw hw raaM tp ?tw nhse hw 9g 6oode 
"hxw? ihw ap ktahMihc tp ?tw nhseg 
7"?heIhITatpTtMdpTd cdwItpMddMZ W ihpe ea 
wdd tE Dapp vtotapd hw Aapea Mdwdszdw hp 
hihsM Eas kdwe PdsEasohpTd Esao h 
velMdpe "?awd Ddnhseodpe tw P?hwdM Fleg 
b Map,e pddM hpc oasd dpTalshrdodpe e?hp 
oc aip Tlstawtec hEeds sdhMtpr h TstetT,w
Emmet Walz, Alvin Lee Sanders
{below) Rise Collins, Melvin Flood
Photos by Greg Nickel
sdohsSwg 9awe welMdpew ?hzd pdzds sdhM h 
sdztdi aE Does A Tiger Wear A Necktie? 
1pM pai e?dc iap,e dzdsg va nawwtuxc e?dc 
iap,e dzdp uae?ds ratprg
1xstr?eV e?tw tw hp dpMxdww Mtxdoohg 
"?de?ds cal,sd h Mshohe as pae hpM cal 
?hzd hp antptap huale i?de?ds e?d Dshoh 
Ddnhseodpe w?aiw w?alxM ud sdztdidMV 
Msan h xdeeds tpea e?d A1HA1 aEEtTdV as 
ra wdd 6hsxd as waode?tpr 7a?V ?d,xx xazd 
e?heZgIHtr?e pai e?d wtelhetap tw dOhTexc 
e?twf b ho ite??axMtpr hpc sdztdiw wtonxc 
ale aE sdwndTe Eas h SpaixdMrhuxd hpM 
dOndstdpTdM Ddnhseodpe mdhM,w itw?dw Eas 
?tw welMdpew ea rde i?he ?d Eddxw tw e?d udwe 
nawwtuxd eshtptprg 1pM tE e?he eshtptpr 
tpTxlMdw udtpr w?dxedsdM Esao sdztdiwV W 
itxx Tdsehtpxc pae tpedsEdsdg
maidzdsVap e?d Esape nhrd aE e?d 1sew hpM 
ydtwlsd vdTetap aE e?tw iddS,w di asS 
Atodw hnndhsdM hp hsetTxd uc h Taxxdrd 
Mshoh nsaEdwwas dpetexdMV Can Colleges 
Teach Theater? i?tT? TapTxlMdM ite? e?tw 
wehedodpef
- ggg welMdpew xdhzd Taxxdrd ite? hp lpC
sdhxtwetT alexaaSV e?d rsdhe dpdoc udtpr 
e?d Maluxd wehpMhsMf vhcj e?he ihw pae 
h uhM w?aij 1Eeds hxxV e?dc,sd apxc 
Taxxdrd StMwj, A?he was h uhM w?aiV W 
Map,e Thsd who e?dc hsdV hpM e?dc alr?e 
ea Spai tegq
IJdsaod HaTSiaaM
hp Taxxdrdw edhT? e?dheds? Ww 1rpdi VtTdI 
PsdwtMdpe? Dadw h etrds idhs h pdTSetd? 7ra 
wdd teZ
-Susan N. Klein

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973
\fon Daniken
by Cyndy Schmidt
The Pittsburgh Press misprinted an 
announcement for the lecture last Tuesday 
night by Erich von Daniken and a couple 
hundred people stormed Carnegie Music 
Hall, demanding free admission. This may 
have been because the announcement read 
free and open to the public but its more 
likely the interest was generated by von 
Danikens books, a recent appearance on 
the Tonight show and a television special 
In Search of Ancient Astronauts.
Mr. von Daniken theorizes thusly: 
Centuries ago. when caves were earth's high 
rent districts, travelers from an advanced 
extraterrestrial civilization visited earth and 
performed genetic mutations upon the 
sub-man inhabitants, thus creating a 
superior form of intelligence. This theory 
was developed from von Danikens private 
research into ancient texts, myths, and 
examinations of artifacts and primitive 
pictorial records that had puzzled 
archaeologists for decades.
All of the examples shown as slides 
during the lecture were provocative. Mr. 
von Daniken's explanations seem more 
logical than the archaeologists; its difficult 
to believe, for example, that stone-age 
men were suddenly moved to carve huge 
stone blocks, precision-cut at right angles, 
with primitive stone chisels, and just as 
suddenly developed the required 
technology.
A tribe from the upper Amazon, dis
covered first in 1954, tells a legend of a 
strange visitor to their village, who landed 
on a mountain amid much noise and 
smoke. After discovering that they 
couldn't harm him and he wouldnt hurt 
them, they all became friends. The visitor 
left from the mountain-top accompanied 
by loud noise, after living among the tribe 
and establishing a school for them, 
currently called the House of Use. This 
story has been passed down generations 
and today, in honor of the visitor (whose 
name translated means I am from the 
Universe), the tribe wears woven straw 
suits that imitate the garments the visitor 
wore. The suit looks much like the ones 
worn on U.S. moon missions. Some more 
interesting things to think about include:
Eric von Daniken, author of "Chariots of the 
Gods?, relaxing after speaking at Carnegie 
Lecture Hall last Tuesday. Photo by B. Smith
Cave drawings, from such distant places 
as Australia and the Sahara, with men 
wearing similar suits and helmets.
A precision-ground lens, possible only 
with sophisticated machinery.
A centuries old battery, that will still 
output 1.5 volts.
All inexplicable by accepted archaeolo
gical hypotheses.
The ruins in Palenque, Central America, 
contain a carved stone slab tomb cover-the 
carving, when seen by eyes that have seen 
man walk on the moon, seems to be a 
picture of an astronaut at the controls of 
his ship. Classical archaeologists explain 
this carving as a victim on a sacrifical altar, 
surrounded by many symbols, all chosen 
randomly. Mr. von Danjiken pointed out 
that the figure was in ridiculous position 
for anyone on a sacrificial altar, and it was. 
Later, when asked what things he 
considered to be most significant and 
amazing, he mentioned this stone slab 
because it so graphically portrays a 
spaceship. He views the book of Enoch, in 
the Apocrypha, to be the most important 
document, because it is so clearly detailed.
During the question and answer period 
following the lecture, von Daniken was 
asked why the gods left such obscure 
clues about their visits. His reply that the 
visitors wanted to know that they 
had created; they wanted a lasting 
monument to their visit. But these travelers
NEW YORK DOLLS
THE
Appearing at the
NIXON THEATER
956 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh
FRIDAY OCT. 26, 8 PM 
Tickets: $6.00, $5.00
Available:
All Ticketron Locations (922-5300), Sears, Kaufmanns, Heads Together (Squirrel 
tiill), Pittsburgh Playhouse Box Office (Oakland)
A Lawrence M. Goldfarb Presentation
couldnt tell primitive men that they came 
in spaceships powered by nuclear fusion. 
This knowledge, having no parallel in the 
experience of those early men, would soon 
be altered and incomprehensible by the 
time earth inhabitants had developed to a 
level capable of understanding the original 
information. And it was certain that such a 
level would be reached, according to von 
Daniken, because man was descended from 
these visitors who had achieved advanced 
technology. Mr. von Daniken hypothesizes 
that the astronauts did leave a testament 
comprehensible to advanced men at some 
mathematically logical point that only men 
with sufficiently advanced technology 
could find. He suggested the north or south 
pole, or the point between the earth and 
the moon with zero gravity, or even 
beneath the pyramids, whose diagonals are 
lines which cross the greatest possibe land 
mass and the greatest amount of water.
After the lecture, in a more relaxed 
situation, von Daniken proved to be an 
articulate, captivating conversationalist. He 
is self-educated and apologized for his 
English, his fifth and most recently 
acquired language. He suggested that 
perhaps the promises of world peace and a 
heaven on earth made by the gods were 
promises to future earth-based explorers 
that would show the futility of land 
divisions and racial separations. From 
space, the earth is just a ball, and all men 
inhabitants of that ball; if asked, earths 
astronauts would probably reply that they 
came from the third ball from the star over 
there, not with a specific nation.
Erich von Daniken has posed some dis
quieting questions and raised quite a few 
archaeological eyebrows with those 
questions.| He doubts the accuracy of the 
accepted forms of dating, and the logic 
behind many widely approved archaeo
logical explanations of the phenomena he 
has examined. Perhaps hes right. Or maybe 
hes just a senationalist, as many 
archaeologists and scientists claim. And if a 
testament to ancient visitaitons does exist, 
it may only be the gods equivalent of 
Kilroy was here.
His questions seem to fit a lot of 
puzzling pieces into a logical pattern. Its 
disturbing to think that man may not be 
the ultimate and only intelligent being in 
the universe, but its more disturbing that 
man wont think any farther than himself 
and his home planet. Erich von Daniken 
with his lenses that dont fit accepted 
archaeological patterns and slides of cave 
paintings of beings with helmets just may 
disturb people into thinking one step 
fartVr out. So what if its crazy? His 
theories dont need to be taken seriously to 
be enjoyed.
EVENTS:(
All That Jazz
Monty Alexander at Walt Harpers Attic, 
beginning Wednesday, October 24. 
Appearing will also be Walt Harpers group 
(no, they are not called the attic!). The 
music will be continuous from 8:30 p.m. 
until 2 a.m., matinee at 5 p.m. on Friday. 
Chris tells me they do not card you.
oBallet
The Pennsylvania Ballet will perform at 
Heinz Hall on Thursday, October 25, at 8 
p.m. Featured will be Balanchines 
Symphony in C, and Rodhams In Retro
spect. Tickets are available at Heinz Hall, 
Gimbels, Kaufmans, Hornes and Pitt 
Student Union with discounts for groups. 
Special student rates ($2.50) on th&0 
remaining tickets with I.D.
Sensitive?
Adrienne Rich, (just who the hell is 
Adrienne Rich?) reads her poems on 
October 24, at Carnegie Lecture Hall, 8:15 
p.m. Presented by the International Poetry 
Forum, Miss Rich teaches at Brandeis and 
has two cute Guggenheim fellows. Ticket^ 
are $2.50, $1.75 for students.
Artsy?
From October 28, there will be a showing 
of sculpture of Barbara Luderowski at the 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute.
Civic Arena
Get ready for a heavythe Moody Blues/f 
appear on Thursday, October 25 at 8 p.m. 
Tickets are $4, $5, and $6. It could be 
worse, it could be David Bowie or those 
nice young boys (?) from New York. 
Tacky.
-jcThe Big Bite is on vacation. She is in New 
York, eating Mrs. KimbeHs home cooking 
and seeing Mart Crowleys new play. Sta
cey Robin will return next week. Ive heard 
some complaints about the Big Bite logo.. 
Anyone interested in submitting a new one v 
for consideration may contact Susan Klein.
Attention!
Get a Discount on Your
FILM ARTS 
TICKETS
Now on sale for:$3.75 per semester 
$6.00 per year pass
Available at Skibo Information Desk
Octouer 25-Lord of the Flies
Times 4:30,7:00,9:30

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23, 1973Page 13
by Mark Evan Chimsky
There is a limit to how much we can 
take. In Lindsay Andersons new film, O Lucky Man, symbols are packed tightly, 
crowded and oppressive as a subway at 
rush hour. While watching a film, our 
thought process should seem almost un
conscious, becoming an integral part of our 
total movie-going experience. In O Lucky Man, we are all too aware of thinking, of 
sorting out a multitude of symbols and 
concepts. We never have time to enjoy the 
film. Entertainment gasps for breath and 
suffocates under the weight of so many 
images and ideas. And in the end, even 
after we have managed to figure out who 
represents what and what represents 
whom, we are still not satisfied, because we 
find the rather simple, unoriginal, overall 
message wasnt worth all the trouble.
The film follows a modern Everyman 
through a flashy, nihilistic Odyssey. The 
ambitious, young man (Malcom McDowell) 
is initiated into the heartless, immoral 
world of big business and, as a result, en
counters the horrible world of science, the t 
horrible world of judges and justice, and 
finally, the horrible world. Only religion 
sparkles wonderfully through, like a rare 
jewel. O Lucky Man careens from put-on 
to put-down to rip-off. One of the movies 
most important themes, (that mans in
herent sensitivity is always crushed by our 
brutal society), is a direct steal from A Clockwork Orange. Stanley Kubrick did it
better.
The only real fun one can derive from O Lucky Man is in guessing which actors are 
playing double, and sometimes triple roles. 
By using this trick to point out the 
universal sameness of us all, Director 
Anderson provides us with a welcome, 
diverting game. Malcom McDowell plays 
only one role in this film, and, unfor
tunately, it is basically the same one he 
played in A Clockwork Orange. Every 
character he creates seems modeled on the 
same person. Still, Malcom McDowell 
portrays Malcom McDowell better than 
anyone else I know.O Lucky Man is expertly executed and 
stocked with such marvelously talented 
actors as Rachel Roberts, Dandy Nichols, 
Mona Washbourne, and Sir Ralph Richard
son. Thus, the major shock of discovering 
what the movie is really saying is softened 
a little. But good film technique and smart 
casting do not redeem Lindsay Anderson. O Lucky Man offers no startling, new 
revelations in a very complicated and 
thought-wearying way. It is said that we 
learn from our mistakes. If thats true, 
Lindsay Anderson has got a lot to learn.
Note: O Lucky Man! will be returning to a 
Pittsburgh Theatre in the near future.
If anyone is interested in chartering a bus 
to go to New York for the John Pasquin/Steve Steinlauf off-Broadway revival 
of Moonchildren, contact Susan Klein. 
Whether this is feasible or not depends 
upon the response.
Independent Film Maker: Hilary Harris
Mr. Harris will be screening and discussing his feature film THE NUER about a 
nomadic tribe that inhabits Sudan and Ethiopia.
Thursday, October 25 at 3..30 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall
Students $1.00. Information - 622-3212
FRANK ZAPPA
THE MOTHERS OF INVENTION
7:00,10:00 p.m. 
Carnegie-Mellon Gym
$3.50 with all college I.D.
$4.50 without 
All Tickets $4.50 at the door
Tickets at:
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
Sponsored by the C-MU Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October? 23, 1973
/port/ SPORTS LIBERATED
Carroll Streaks 
Past G-MU
by Mary Jo Chabala
The womens field hockey team
suffered two defeats during the past week. 
C-MU lost to Bethany on Tuesday, October 
9, by a 6-0 score. This game proved to be a 
very physical one. The Bethany team
played an extremely rough game with the 
C-MU women very disappointed about 
Bethanys showing.
On Saturday, October 13, the field 
hockey team lost to the Pittsburgh Field 
Hockey Association, 3r0. This was only a 
practice game, but the C-MU women
learned a great deal from the members of
the PFHA.
The womens tennis team met with a
disappointing defeat on Wednesday, 
October 10 as Indiana won the match 4-3. 
On Thursday, October 11 C-MU was ahead 
of Chatham 3-1 when the match was 
postponed due to darkness. It will ber 
finished at a later date. Two victories may 
be added to C-MUs tennis record as they 
shut out Geneva 5-0 on Friday, October 12 
and trounced Pennsylvania State University 
(Fayette Campus) 8-2 on Monday, October 
15.
The following scores have resulted from 
womens intramural volleyball during the 
past week: f
EZBO over Cleo and the Anchor Asses: 
5-6, 12-15, 15-0.
EZBO over Dawgs; 15-2, 15-13.
Black Magic over Cleo and the Anchor 
Asses; 15-2, 15-3.
W&J Trampled 
By Tartans, 15-44
Greg Dewey and Ken Kloes crossed the 
finish line together to pace the Tartans to 
their 15-44 demolition of Washington and 
Jefferson at Washington Park Saturday. 
Tony McKay, Greg Hyatt, and Fred 
Carlson finished third, fourth, and fifth to 
round the Tartan placement.
Coach Meckleys harriers have two more 
meets, against Bethany and AlleghenyHiram, before the PAC championships, 
where the Tartans feel they have a good 
chance of dethroning Case. The Tartans 
run against Bethany, whom they have 
already defeated, this Tuesday.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
FACULTY - STUDENT SABBATH at 
Chatham College Chapel Lounge 
Friday, October 26
Worship at 7:30 p.m. followed by Speaker, discussion and refreshments 
Speaker: Marjorie Weinhold 
Topic: Ethics in Language 
CMU BAGEL AND LOX BRUNCH 
Sunday, October 28, 11 a.m.
Skibo Faculty Dining Room 
Speaker: Professor Joel Tarr, C-MU
Topic: Ethnic and Racial Confrontation in the American City 
Cost: $1.00
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES - every Sunday 
7:30 p.m. Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor 
Sunday, October 28
Speaker: Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
Topic: The Biblical Talmudic View of Man 
LUNCH AND LECTURE SERIES -"Perspectives on the Jews of Eastern Europe"
Monday, October 29, Noon, last lecture
Speaker: Dr. Jerome Rosenberg, University of Pittsburgh
Topic: The Contemporary Russian Scene
 . u *-C 315 S. Belief ield Avenue - 621-8875Cost for lunch: $.75 _____________________
Program on Human Sexuality bRL3/bRL: 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Birth Control and Abortion
October 24 
Cathlyn Gable, Associate Director 
Planned Parenthood Center of Pittsburgh 
Leonard Laufe.M.D., 
Chief of Obstetrics & Gynecology 
West Penn Hospital 
All lectures scheduled for Wednesday evenings, Breed Memorial Hall 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, at 8 p.m.
Open to men and women
by Jeff Englund
The Taitan football squad, badly out
classed by John Carroll's running attack 
and unable to launch a scoring drive of 
their own. fell 20-7 to the Blue Streaks in 
Cleveland last Saturday.
Bob Curtis scored the only Tartan 
touchdown on a 92-yard kickoff runback. 
Toni McMeekin's extra point gave the 
Tartans a short-lived lead, but Carroll soon 
added two touchdowns to clinch the 
victory.
The home team dominated offensively, 
picking up 24 first downs to the Tartans' 7 
and rushing for 431 yards against only 55
for C-MU. Passing yardage honors went to 
the Tartans, 86 to 62, as did completion 
percentage. .650 to .429. Quarterback Jay 
Duquette is above the .600 mark in this 
statistic for the season.
Ted Harhai, who has done a 
commendable punting job thus far for 
C-MU. averaged a stellar 43.4 yards on 11 
punts. He is among the PAC leaders.
John Carrol remains undefeated and 
tied for the conference lead with Thiel, 
who bested Bethany College over the 
weekend. Carnegie-Mellon drops to 1-2 in 
PAC competition, with a .500 overall 
record. Next Saturday they return to 
Cleveland, this time to face winless Case.
Streyle, Koblin Pace 
Soccer Victory, 51
by Mark Schiffman thifc year. Assists for the Tartans are given
to Russell and Streyle. W&J scored their
 only goal early in the first half.
A1 Koblin scored a hat trick for the The win raises the Tartans record to 5-0 
Tartans in a 5-1 romp over Washington and in PAC Conference play and 5-2 overall. 
Jefferson on Thursday. Also scoring for Their next game will be played next 
C-MU were Streyle and freshman Doug Tuesday at Bethany, which may be the 
Harrigan. The goal by Harrigan was his first game to decide the PAC Conference title.
Photo by John Rose

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN Tuesday, 0<#olt&r M. 1 73-Page 15
Tennis Team Takes 
3 Out Of 5
by Leslie Allen
October 3, C-MU womens tennis team 
traveled to Indiana University of Penn
sylvania, playing four singles and two 
doubles matches. C-MU lost all but one 
match; their only victory coming when 
Leslie Allen came back after losing the first 
set 9-7 to win the next two sets 6-2,6-1.
When Indiana came to C-MU on 
October 10, C-MU again suffered defeat, 
this time by a one match margin, 3-4. 
Indianas victory was held off until they 
won the last match in the third set. Captain 
Elly Zimmerman, Cliffeton Greene, and 
the third doubles team were C-MUs 
winners.
After suffering two defeats, C-MUs 
women netters got back on their feet. They 
traveled to Chatham College on October
11, playing three singles matches and two 
doubles. C-MU defeated Chatham for the 
first time since coach Jane Fisk has been at 
C-MU. Elly Zimmerman and Cliffeton 
Greene won their singles matches, Marya 
Piasecki playing with Nancy Pearlman won 
the first doubles. The second doubles 
match was halted because of darkness with 
C-MUs Nancy Bing and Susy Duffy 
trailing, having lost the first set 7-6 and 
being tied 3-3 in the second set. This match 
will be finished on a later date. Leslie Allen 
lost in close struggles, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.
MED
PROBLEMS?
EuroMed 
may oiler RK Kia
overseas training
For the session starting Fall, 1974, 
the European Medical Students 
Placement Service, Inc. will assist 
qualified American students in 
gaining admission to recognized 
overseas medical schools.
And thats just the beginning.
Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeeding at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive 12 week medical and conversational language course, mandatory for all students. Five hours daily, the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school.
In addition, the European Medical Students Placement Service provides students with a 12 week intensive cultural orientation course, with American students now studying medicine in that particular country serving as counselors.
Senior or graduate students currently enrolled in an American university are eligible to participate in the Euromed program.
For application and further information, phone toll free, 
(800) 645-1234
or write,EUROPEAN MEDICAL ' 
Students Placement Service, Inc. 
170 Did Country l)oad 
Mineoia. N Y. 11501
Geneva College fell victims of C-MU 
women netters as C-MU shut them out 5-0. 
In singles, Leslie Allen won 6-2, 6-0, Elly 
Zimmerman won 6-1, 6-0, Cliffeton Greene 
won 6-0, 6-0. First doubles team struggled 
back after losing first set in the ninth point 
of a nine point tie breaker, 7-6, to win the 
second set, 7-5, and the third set 6-2. 
Second doubles Celera Munkerbeck and 
Nancy Lyons won 6-2, 6-1.
Inexperienced Penn State (Fayette) came 
to C-MU Monday, October 15. C-MU easily 
defeated them 9-1 without the help of 
their numbers 1 and 2 singles players. 
C-MU won six singles and three doubles 
matches.
This last victory extends C-MUs women 
netters record to four wins and two losses. 
With two matches left, the team plans to 
extend their record to six wins and two 
losses.
IM News
by Mike Pochan
The Co-Rec Volleyball season came to 
an .end as Beta A team defeated SAE 
A in two straight games, 15-11 and 15-9. 
Playing for Beta were Stu Cedrone, John 
Rollins, Jeff Grube, Stan Smith, Jay Groff, 
Cliffeton Greene, Nancy Perlman, Dori 
Feuss, Sally Dittman, Ellie Zimmerman 
and Ann Kramer. Beta defeated SAE B 
and Peer Help to reach the finals and take 
the title for the second year in a row.
In intramural golf, the M.B.s triumphed 
over F.U.B.A.R. by a final score of 
227-231.
Computer Science walked off with the 
intramural team tennis trophy, as they 
defeated Scrow in the finals.
Pika 
Slices
n
by Mike Pochan
In a classic confrontation, PIKA ground 
out a victory over Beta Theta Pi, 21-13. 
The game saw excellent passing on the part 
of both quarterbacks and spectacular plays 
by the defensive backfields. Beta opened 
the game with John Lankford running back 
the opening kickoff for a touchdown. 
PIKA QB Steve Rouch ran for two TDs, 
the second being set up on a key pass to 
Don Treleaven. Beta rolled back on key 
passes to Jim Brogan, but the drive was 
broken up on an interception by Vic 
Rogers. An interception by Betas Dave 
Cacciamani killed the PIKA return drive, 
and John Rollins hauled in a pass for a BTP 
touchdown. Rouch moved PIKA again and 
passed to Doug Doxsey for the final 
touchdown of the game.
SAE had no trouble with the P.K.Tators 
as they won by a score of 31-14. Pat 
Wallace caught two touchdown passes, Don 
Van Ollefen One, and Ted Stem ran back 
an interception.
In intermediate action, the Purple 
Gnurples edged the Oakland Dolphins, 
19-18, to go into a tie for first place in the 
Western Division. Ray Evangelista hit Dave 
List for two touchdowns for the winners, 
while Howie Zelick and Lee Patch three 
times broke up touchdown passes in the 
endzone. *.
ATTENTION!
The annual intramural cross country run 
will be held Thursday, October 25 at 4:30 
p.m. The run will be held on the Schenley 
Park course; a map of the course is posted 
on the I.M. board in the gymnasium.
oo
COMPUTERIZED 
DATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITS
DATAMATIC 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
15213
,ATT ENIIO:I
WITH PURCHASE
kItS
IStaN:SfDISCOUNT
tues -s/in ir. 30 5:30 2.09MCflt 5T 637-7972-
tte. 4-rie.rvcy ypxr\ Shop*
is owner-operated by 
MR. MOTHER, RON PELINO 
a concerned parent!
IF YOU THINK "mother" means 
"mother" . . .you're not invited.
Dough Made Fresh Daily
WE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755
RURAL LANDSCAPES 
DUSTY TOWNS MURKY SALOONS 
PICKUP TRUCKS FREIGHT TRAINS 
BUTCHER HOLLOW FA T MESSERS MOONSHINE &
Tunes about them at a big evening of
Southern Music
Don Gibson, Skeeter Davis, Barbara 
Mandrell, Country Cavaleers and the Old 
South man himself. Bill Currie
Friday, October 26, 8:00 p.m. Syria Mosque. 
Tickets at Skibo and all National Record 
Marts: $5.00; $4.75; $3.75
By New Directions Productions, Inc.
I.M. FOOTBALL STANDINGS 
Major
National
All-Stars
PIKA
SAE
Black Magic
Wild Bunch 
Beta
P.K.Tators 
Grade A
American
Intermediate
East
Scrow 
Gripes 
Civ. Eng.
Kappa Sig 
ATO
Red Riders A
TDP
Big Red
Purple Gnurples 
O. Dolphins 
Sigma Nu 
PKAB 
McGilldoes 
Red Death 
Red Riders B 
DTD
Shakers Beer
Bearded Clams
PKT
PLP
Azzzoles
West
Minors
W-L
6-0
5-1
3-4-
0-5
WL
4-1
3-3
1-5
1-4
W-L
5-1
5-1
5-1
4-2
3-4
2-4
0-5
0-5
W-L
6-1
6-1
5-2
3-3
3-3
2-4
1-5
1-5
1-6
W-L
5-0
4-1
1-4
0-5
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
4415 FIFTH AVE. 
683-8040
Our Low Copy Prices Are:
1 thru 15 5cents/copy 
16 thru 100 3cents/copy 
101 and up 2cents/copy 
WE ALSO DO TYPING 
Reports, term papers, thesis, 
desertations.
65 cents per page - double spaced 
$1.25 per page - single spaced
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $100 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213)477-8474 or 477 5493Our research material is sold for research assistance only.

---------------------------------------------------

HOW ? WHEN ? WHERE ?
Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 23. 1973
PONSORED BY THE TARTAN:
WRITERS WORKSHOP
OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED IN WORKING
ON THE TARTAN
f
FEATURING:
01
LARRY WALSH 
JACKIE CAMPBELLGARY MIHOCES - 
BEE HIRSHL 
BARBARA HAAS -
P6H. PRESS
P.R. OFFICE, CMU
ASSOC. PRESS
REVIEWER
WOMEN IN 
COMMUNICATIONS
TARTAN OFFICE:
OCT. 25th
ROOM 50, SKI BO
THURS., 1-4:00pm
FOUR SESSIONS:
1 - 2:30 NEWS AND FEATURES/port/
entertainment
2:30-4:00 NEWSPAPER LAYOUT
COME SEE WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT!
