olume 94, Issue 21tartan@andrew.cmu.edu10 April 2000
Tuesday Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1Q06
Hi 50/Lo 35 * r r ^
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
Hi 58/Lo 45
FRIDAYTHE TARTAN
by Kevin BabbittContributing Editor
One hundred years ago, 
Pittsburgh was the Silicon Valley of 
the world, said mayor Tom Murphy 
in his welcome to T3 participants 
last Friday evening. Though the 
industries started by the entrepre
neurs of the early 20th century  
iron, steel, glass, and oil  have all 
but disappeared from the region, a 
new culture, seeded by Pittsburghs 
universities and built on the 
Information Age, has arisen here.
Last weekends T3 (Tomorrows 
Technology Today) conference 
brought together, for the first time 
on Carnegie Mellons campus, peo
ple from all branches of the new 
entrepreneurship wave: technolo
gists from academia and industry, 
businessmen, venture capitalists, 
and consultants. Organized and run 
entirely by students, the conference 
drew about 1,000 attendees, includ
ing representatives of over 50 com
panies, according to Paul Frank, a 
second-year masters student in 
GSIA and T3 committee member.
It exemplified the team spirit 
both in GSIA and in Pittsburgh, said 
Colleen Brecker, a second-year mas
ters student in GSIA and a volunteer 
at the conference. It wouldnt have
Participants gathered at Soldiers and Sailors Hall for the opening address of 
the T3 Conference. This conference brought together technologists from posi
tions varying from academia to venture capitalism.
happened without the involvement 
of many people.
Two keynote speeches kicked off 
the conference last Friday. Andrew 
Stern, COO and Executive VicePresident of USInternetworking, an 
application service provider (ASP). 
An ASP, according to Stern, man
ages and delivers application capa
bilities to multiple entities from a 
data center across a WAN. In other 
words, an ASP builds a complete 
package of service centered around 
commonly-used applications such as 
Microsoft Word, including the appli
cation itself, data storage, and sup
port. The ASP then makes these 
applications available to clients 
through an Internet browser. By let
ting an ASP worry about widelyused applications, Stearn said, com
panies can devote their IT personnel 
 to industryor company-specific 
needs.
David Reed, a Diamond 
Technology Partners Fellow, gave 
the second Friday night keynote, 
which focused on what he called 
Communities of Value  environ
ments where a host of some sort cre
ates a context where content, com
merce, and collaboration all exist. 
He explained the differences among 
the three types of information net
works that people form  a one-toSee T3, page L6
by Jennifer ResickStaffwriter
After much debate and review, the Faculty 
Senate Committee passed a new health benefits 
policy granting coverage to same-sex domestic 
partners last Wednesday. Toby Davis, chair of 
the Human Relations Committee, and the other 
committee members submitted a report on the 
issue to the faculty Web site in March for discus
sion on April 5.
The Human Relations Commission (HRC) was 
established by President Richard Cyert as an 
independent assembly used to explore and 
investigate controversial issues involving the 
CMU campus. The administration, Faculty 
Senate, or staff council have the capability to 
request that the HRC investigate a topic. The 
Commissions latest venture has been submitting 
a report on health benefits for same-sex domes
tic couples. The report includes information 
about Carnegie Mellons current health benefits 
policy as well as the proposed extended cover
age.
Under the current plan, dependent children 
are eligible for coverage up to a defined age of 
maturity without regard to state in the family. 
The report states, The spouse of an employee is 
eligible since benefits are given to dependents 
without regard to state in the family.
Gay and
Vir work benefitsLesbian
homosexual faculty & staff
5%
percentage of 
homosexuals in relationships
partner has other full-time 
employment
0.45%
CMU employees to request 
benefits for same sex partner
this would be 11 to 15 same sex couples out of 3000
Michael Castellana/Art Staff
Gary Gates, a doctoral student in the Heinz School, estimated the above numbers that were used by the 
Faculty Senate to show that the cost of offering same-sex health benefits at CMU would be minimal. 
Homosexual couples are not recognized by the recognized as being eligible for health benefits
state as being married, no matter what their under existing University policy.
domestic arrangements, under the prevailing The report also emphasizes the Carnegie
law. Accordingly, such couples have not been See HEALTH, page 3
Jane GoocLall shares love of animals with CMU students
by Asha PathakBusiness Manager 
& Marissa StallerJunior Staffwriter
Dr. Jane Goodall visited Carnegie Mellon 
University last Tuesday to lecture about her life
long research and the importance of conserva
tion. The program included slides of the chimps 
Goodall has studied in her research, a discussion 
of relevant animal behavior, and the conserva
tionist efforts of the Jane Goodall Institute and 
its satellite foundation, Roots and Shoots.
Goodall surprised the audience with a chimp 
greeting as she began the lecture. She then 
acknowledged the key figures in the cultivation 
and progression of her career, emphasizing the 
importance of visionary Louis1' Leakey and his 
presence in establishing Goodalls studies in 
Africa in the early 1960s. She then began the 
slide presentation and effectively conveyed the . 
purpose, depth, and results of her research as well 
as striking evidence of the need for conservation.
The first set of slides documented Goodalls 
early years with a group of chimps, who are still 
See GOODALL, page L6
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Jane. Goodall signed books, posters, and accepted donations to her foundation on Tuesday when she 
spoke to over 1,000 CMU students. Goodall shared experiences relating to her love of animals.
Limited faculty, resources cause 
IDS to change program structure
by Sara StilleNews Editor
Due to much unrest among stu
dents, faculty, and the administra
tion of the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences (H&SS) and the 
department of Social and Decision 
Sciences (SDS), Information 
Decision Systems - (IDS) has now 
found a new home and structure. 
This new program will replace the 
previously planned Information 
Systems Program (ISP). Limited fac
ulty and resources have plagued the 
rapidly growing major for several 
years now, restricting the develop
ment and the personal attention 
received by students. The college 
hopes that the most recent changes 
will ease pressure on current faculty 
and .make the program more attrac
tive for students.
The college voted on changes to 
the programon Friday, March 24 
due to the fact that the IDS major is 
growing in numbers, but not in 
resources or faculty. The IDS pro
gram has been growing over the last
few years. Unfortunately, resources 
to support this major havent grown 
along with the interest, said Joel 
Greenhouse, the Associate Dean of 
H&SS. SDS just hasnt been able to 
provide the faculty and support to 
accommodate the numbers.
Larry Heimann, a visiting assis
tant professor in SDS, now teaches 
79 junior and 70 senior IDS majors 
along with one other IDS faculty 
member. Because there are too few 
faculty resources, we have to put, 
students off until their junior yearSee IDS, page 4
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Spring(?) Carnival: A sudden snow storm didnt stop members of Delta Upsilon from continuing work on their 
booth, which features a Sphinx. The theme for this year's carnival is "Around the World: How far can you get in a 
weekend?" Opening ceremonies are Thursday evening at-5 pm on the midway.
Campus police, Human Resources 
investigate deadly weapons policy
by Megan AdrianceStaffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Faculty Senate 
has recently raised the issue of 
deadly weapons on campus. On 
March 8, 2000, the Faculty Senate 
met to discuss proposals for new 
policies regarding these weapons.
In 1996 Campus Police and 
Human Resources agreed to work 
on a project that would investigate 
campus violence and make recom
mendations for solutions. This pro
ject included five objectives: 
research violence issues, collect 
data about Carnegie Mellons expe
riences, benchmark with other col
leges and universities, research pro
fessional resources, and develop 
options for preventing and respond
ing to violence, said Jim LaPaglia, 
Chief of Campus Police.
Since 1996, Carnegie Mellon has 
worked to develop specific policies 
for the campus. The original deadly 
weapons proposal was drafted on 
November 9, 1999. The policy stat
ed that deadly weapons are not
allowed on any property that the 
University owns or controls. Deadly 
weapons are described as any 
firearm, whether loaded or 
unloaded, or any device designed as 
a weapon and capable of producing 
death or serious bodily injury. The 
policy does not apply to Carnegie 
Mellon Police officers, other 
enforcement officers, members of 
the United States armed forces on 
duty, and messengers or employees 
whose duties require them to pro
tect their property while conducting 
See WEAPONS, page 3
Faculty senate committee passes health 
benefits proposal for same-sex partners
Forum
Elian Gonzalez has captured the informa
tion machine of the United States. It's 
time to move on, says Sean Mintus.
Page 6
Science & Technology
Learn more about Kevlar, the prestigious 
Dickson Prize, and new dinosaur 
research.
Page L5
Student-run T3 conference 
promotes entrepeneurship
Sports
The CMU Invitational took place on a 
wet, dreary Saturday. CMU baseball team 
takes come-from-behind victory.
Page 12
Arts & Living
See a Spring 
Carnival pre
view, Enigma 
Fashion show, 
and Purnell 
musical.
Page L1
Calendar
Check out the 
Pittsburgh Pirates' 
home schedule for 
their final season at 
Three Rivers 
Stadium.
Page L14
Entertainment
Becca Fribush visits India Palace on 
Centre Avenue in her latest restaurant 
review.
Page L9

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 2000
IRE*
Marine Captain found guilty in death
National News
CAMP LEJEUNE, N.C. (AP)  A 
Marine captain charged in the 
heatstroke death of a reservist was 
found guilty Saturday of derelic
tion of duty and failure to obey an 
order.
Lieutenant Colonel Ralph 
Kohlman, the military judge hear
ing the case, said Capt. Victor 
Arana was guilty of both charges, 
but removed language in one 
charge that contended Arana failed 
to stay with his unit after a grueling 
July 7 hike that led to Lance 
Corporal Giuseppe Joey Letos 
death.
Arana showed no emotion as the 
verdict was read.
He faces a maximum sentence of 
nine months in prison and dis
missal from the Marines.
Following the verdict Saturday, 
the sentencing phase of the courtmartial began and was scheduled 
to resume Sunday.
Letos cousin, Annamaria Des 
Biens, testified during sentencing, 
describing Letos dedication to the 
Marine Corps.
When he joined the Marines, 
that was when he felt his life was 
fully satisfied, she said, crying. 
He was the few, the proud. He was 
the epitome of the Marines.
Letos mother, Domenica Leto, 
said her sons death convinced the 
family that Letos younger brother
SYDNEY, Australia (AP)  More 
than 200 men gave saliva samples 
and fingerprints Saturday in 
Australias first-ever mass DNA 
screening, an effort to find the man 
who brutally beat and raped a 91- 
year-old woman.
Police say the mass testing in the 
town of Wee Waa, which is located 
310 miles north of Sydney, is aimed 
at cutting down the list of potential 
suspects in the attack of the woman 
in her home two years ago.
In addition to submitting to sali
va tests and fingerprinting, men 
were also photographed.
Its no big deal, just a quick 
scrape inside your cheeks. Its painfree, said retired farmer Frank 
Williams. Most of the community 
here in Wee Waa are very happy to 
assist police.
Villagers were free to refuse the 
tes for their own reasons, and 
Assistant Police Commissioner
Vincent would not join the Marines 
as he had hoped.
The Marine Corps lost two sol
diers, not one, she said.
Prosecutors had argued in clos
ing arguments Saturday morning 
that Arana, 28, of Chicago, had 
violated standard operating proce
dures for conditioning hikes and 
that he showed a careless disregard 
for his men.
He was like a horse with blind
ers on, Major Chris Hamilton told 
the judge. He was head down, 
focused forward. There was 
absolutely no supervision of that 
conditioning hike.
Aranas defense attorneys argued 
that Arana was a rookie company 
commander in charge of the unit 
for only 16 days when he led the 
180 Marines, all carrying weapons 
and packs, on the eight-mile night 
march in 80-degree heat.
Mark Stevens said Arana did not 
receive proper instructions from 
his superiors and delegated author
ity to his non-commissioned offi
cers as allowed in standard operat
ing procedures.
There is no doubt that there 
were some judgment and leader
ship errors made on this hike, 
Stevens said. All judgment errors 
and leadership errors do not equate 
to criminal liability. Good judgment 
comes from experience.
Clive Small has said that those 
choosing not to come forward will 
not automatically be considered a 
suspect.
But not all residents shared that 
view.
There really is a presumption 
that anyone who happens to be liv
ing in the area of Wee Waa this 
weekend is a suspect and is pre
sumed guilty until proven inno
cent, said Wee Waa resident David 
Sweeney, who said he would not 
undergo the voluntary testing.
Civil liberty groups also criticized 
the tests. Michael Antrum, chair
man of the human rights commit
tee of the New South Wales state 
law society, said the screening 
offered a frightening glimpse of a 
future police state.
Others have questioned the value 
and validity of the tests, saying the 
rape occurred during cotton-harvesting season, when the village
Arana testified Thursday that he 
didnt realize there were so many 
stragglers until the hike was more 
than half completed and that he 
considered calling in trucks to take 
the Marines the rest of the way, but 
instead decided to slow down.
Hamilton said Arana could not 
blame his subordinates for his own 
failing to supervise the troops.
He chose to ignore the signs of 
an unsafe march at every step of the 
way, he said.
The accused broke the backs 
and the will of the company in the 
first leg of that hike, Hamilton 
said. The accused wasnt looking 
over his shoulder, the only thing 
the accused was looking at, Your 
Honor, was his watch.
At the end of the hike, Leto, 21, of 
New Milford, Conn., wandered 
more than half a mile from the 
area, and Arana failed to obtain a 
proper head count or weapons 
count, Hamilton said.
Two hours after the hike, follow
ing a head count that prompted a 
search for him, Leto was found 
dead.
All of this negligent conduct 
does not meet the standard of due 
care that is expected of a company 
commander to ensure the safety 
and welfare of his marines, 
Hamilton told the judge.
to find rapist
was flooded with seasonal workers 
who have long since left.
Such DNA screenings are com
mon in Britain, with more than 100 
screenings carried out in the last 
five years.
One-third of the mass screenings 
in Britain have resulted in arrests, 
the Sydney Morning Herald report
ed, but the British program ran into 
controversy last year when the gov
ernment proposed setting up a 
nationwide DNA databank using 
samples taken in mass tests. 
Previously, all DNA samples of 
those proven innocent were 
destroyed.
Detective Inspector Paul Mayger 
said police would continue the Wee 
Waa testing Sunday, and about 600 
men over the age of 18 were expect
ed to be tested in all. Once a man 
has been eliminated as a suspect, 
he will be notified and his samples 
destroyed, Mayger said.
Massachusetts 
fire injures five
BOSTON (AP)  A nine-alarm 
fire destroyed a yacht club Saturday, 
fed by gusty winds that spread the 
blaze into a neighborhood where at 
least five homes were damaged. 
Four firefighters and a resident were 
injured, fire officials said.
This is one of the most difficult 
and toughest fires weve had in 
Boston in many years, said Boston 
Fire Chief Paul Christian. Its no 
secret the high winds here today 
caused for a rapid spread.
Several people were inside the 
wooden 2 and a half story Orient 
Heights Yacht Club when the fire 
broke out at about 4 pm, but all got 
out safely. At least one civilian and 
four firefighters were injured, but 
none seriously. The cause of the fire 
was under investigation.
Government 
approves end to 
fighting in Congo
KAMPALA, Uganda (AP)  The 
committee formed to implement a 
cease-fire agreement for the 
Republic of Congo on Saturday 
approved a plan to end the fighting 
between government troops and 
rebels on April 14.
A statement issued at the end of a 
three-day meeting said after dis
cussing numerous reports of cease
fire violations from both sides, the 
political committee approved a dis
engagement plan that had previous
ly been adopted by military leaders.
Congo and its allies, Zimbabwe, 
Angola and Namibia, together with 
rebels backed by Rwanda and 
Uganda, all signed a cease-fire 
agreement that set up a joint mili
tary committee to monitor disen
gagement and the disarming of for
mer Rwandan soldiers fighting 
alongside Congolese government 
troops.
But the government of Congolese 
Prsident Laurent Kabila, the rebels 
and their backers have reported fre
quent cease-fire violations.
The United Nations has sent 
about 100 liaison officers and mili
tary observers to Congo in prepara
tion for the cease-fire. But they have 
been hampered in both government 
and rebel-controlled territories.
The U.N. Security Council has 
approved a plan to eventually send 
5,500 troops to Congo, mainly to 
protect the military observers.
Southerly gusts as strong as 50 
mph blew embers and thick plumes 
of smoke directly into the densely 
populated neighborhood, setting 
fire to several houses next to the 
club. Three homes were severely 
damaged.
At least 200 neighborhood resi
dents were evacuated. Red Cross 
volunteers counted at least 20 peo
ple who would need housing.
The fire also damaged the pier 
and several boats docked at the 
clubs marina.
FBI fires agent 
involved in crash
MIAMI (AP)  The FBI has fired 
an agent who allegedly was intoxi
cated while driving the wrong way 
on a stretch of Interstate 95, causing 
a crash that killed two brothers in 
November.
In August 1998, Congolese rebels 
launched an attack on Kabilas 
forces in eastern Congo and nearly 
succeeded in capturing the capital, 
Kinshasa, 1,000 miles to the west. 
They were driven back by Angolan 
troops.
Doctors continue 
walkout in South 
Korea
SEOUL, South Korea (AP)  
About 4,500 doctors walked off 
their jobs for a second straight day 
Saturday, accusing the government 
of trying to force small clinics out of 
business.
The doctors, all residents, 
launched their walkout in protest-of 
a government plan to ban pharma
cists from prescribing medicine and 
doctors from selling it.
The roles of physicians and phar
macists are not clearly divided in 
South Korea. Pharmacists can freely 
prescribe drugs, while doctors make 
a large part of their income by buy
ing drugs from pharmaceutical 
firms and selling them to their 
patients for profit. That will end 
July 1 under the new policy.
Saying the change will deprive 
them of their biggest source of 
income, about 75 percent of South 
Koreas 19,000 small clinics closed 
for three days until Friday in 
protest. All major hospitals 
remained open.
As the doctors returned to work, 
thousands of residents walked off 
their jobs Friday, beginning the twoday protest that continued
David Farralls dismissal was 
announced Friday by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation.
Former agent Farrall, prior to the 
accident, operated a motor vehicle 
after consuming a significant 
amount of alcohol, contrary to the 
FBIs strict policies regarding 
employee conduct, the agency said 
in a statement.
Police say Farrall, 37, had almost 
two pitchers of beer while watching 
football at a sports bar prior to the 
accident after midnight Nov. 23.
Killed were Maurice Williams, 23, 
and his brother, Craig Chambers, 
19.'The Florida Highway Patrol ini
tially said Williams, a youth minis
ter, was the wrong-way driver, but 
identified Farrall a month later.
A hospital found Farralls bloodalcohol level to be .17, more than 
twice Floridas legal limit of .08. He 
is under house arrest while free on 
bail.
Saturday. They said they will return 
to work Sunday.
The Korean government, which 
regulates fees for most doctors, 
promised to increase fees by an 
average 9 percent to help compen
sate for the loss in income. The doc
tors have demanded a larger 
increase and have threatened to 
close their clinics again if the gov
ernment does not accept the 
demand.
Museum worker 
suspected of 
stealing
MADRID, Spain (AP)  An 
archaeology museum employee has 
been arrested on suspicion of 
stealing 4,000 items worth $2.3 
million from the warehouse he was 
supposed to be overseeing, 
newspapers reported Saturday.
Police have recovered Phoenician 
coins, Etruscan vases, 18th-century 
Italian drawings and other pieces 
that the suspect allegedly took from 
the Archaeology Museum of 
Catalonia and then hid in properties 
he owns, the reports said. Police 
were not available for comment.
Authorities were quoted as saying 
that in some cases the suspect sim
ply ripped pages out of books. 
Some antique books have practical
ly been reduced to the covers, El Mundo quoted a Civil Guard official 
as saying. The suspect is alleged to 
have taken the items while he was 
working as director of the museums 
warehouse from the early 1990s 
until February 1999.
Corrections & ClarificationsThe Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat atx8-21U or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Australian police use DNA
World News
Located on Campus at Call 681 -3737
3520 Forbes Avenue
HEADACHES?
Could be caused by pressure exerted by the Third Molars or WISDOM TEETH. 
For a consultation on Wisdom Tooth Removal while you Sleep. Call
Alfonso A. Costa D. M. D. and Roberto C. Michienzi D. M. D. at681-3737
Dr. Costa and Dr. Michienzi have surgically 
removed Thousands upon Thousands of 
impacted wisdom teeth.DENTIST ON CAMPUS
Student Discounts50% OFF ALL 
SERVICES
Services available:
EmergenciesBridgesCleaning
BleachingRoot CanalsCum Treatment
FillingsConsultsRetainers
CrownsBondingWisdom Teeth Extractions

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10. 2000JL
Nuri Miller/Photo Staff
oluulm e994 ,Is21uC sr4 cl2ltu19r sml si9rn mltlru 1i&m9alilruc u9 
f1nL2sr4lmd pLlml sml s2c9 &2src u9 tLsrnl uLl tselulm1s rsil u9 6t9uu1l8cd-3
the activities of CDNA will most 
probably be partially funded by the 
Parkhurst firm, which is also in 
charge of assisting the change of 
food quality on campus. The 
Parkhurst firm is also working with 
CDNA in decorating Highlander 
over the summer.
Food wise, I hear its going to be 
better, which would make me more 
inclined to go there, and staying 
open to 2 am would be great, but 
the 50s diner room motif just does-' 
n't do it for me, said Matt'Ames, a 
first-year majoring in architecture, 
of the plans for Highlander.
Lauren Darby, a first-year student 
majoring in design, says I think if s 
a last ditch effort to save a dying 
program. The appearance will mean 
nothing if they dont change the 
content of what theyre serving. 
Highlander has always been  a 
place where freshmen have to go to 
eat, says Dodson. Right now 'it 
seems very institutional and we 
want to make it a place where you 
want to go to eat, not just where you 
have to go to eat. We need to have it 
as a more inviting place to actually 
sit down and eat your food.
bmething to 
smile about!
Ask about our CMCI Dental Plan!
7lru2l 51m0lu Flru1cu 
bm9i&u AilmnlrtC vsm 
blmc9rs21y
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMCI shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street
Campus 
examines 
weapons 
policies
WEAPONS, from page 1 
business on campus. However, , 
because the University is private 
property, it is within the schools | 
rights to prohibit weapons from j 
being brought onto campus, said ! 
LaPaglia.
The original proposal was | 
revised and brought to the Faculty | 
Senate meeting on March 8. The j 
revised draft took into considera
tion educational materials appear 
to fall under the category of dan
gerous weapons. According to the 
policy, in these cases, the depart| 
ment or organization coordinat| 
ing the activity is responsible for 
obtaining the written approval of j 
the Chief of Police or designee in j 
advance, to conduct the activity. j
Faculty Senate members were 
divided about the policy. Senator 
Clark Glymour, the Alumni 
University Professor of j 
Philosophy, expressed concern j 
over the definition of a deadly j 
weapon and what falls under that 
category.
Several senators asked for a j 
clarification of the definition of a I 
deadly weapon. What is a deadly j 
weapon? The Design Department 
has many hand tools that could 
arguably-be considered deadly 
weapons, said Senator Thomas 
Merriman, a senior lecturer in 
Design. Intent is a large part of the 
definition, said LaPaglia: j 
However, a list of deadly weapons ! 
does exist.
Larry Cartwright, a senior leci 
turer and lab director in civil and | 
environmental engineering. ! 
brought up the issue of how j 
Carnegie Mellon expects to ! 
inform students, employees, and 
visitors of the weapons policy, j 
We have many mechanisms, . 
including student, staff, and fac
ulty handbooks, both hardcopy 
and on the Web, and the press, 
said Jay Kadane, Chair of the 
Faculty'Organization. 1
There are several members of 
the CMU community who do not 
feel the campus needs to have a 
policy on the issue of deadly 
weapons. I feel safe on campus, 
Ive never encountered any situa
tion involving deadly weapons on j 
CMUs campus. I dont think 
theres even a need for a specific 
policy, said Kristen Matlock, a 
first-year electrical and compuer j 
engineering major.
A vote was taken to pass the ; 
deadly weapons policy. Five senaj 
tors were in favor, tenopposed; I 
the policy was not approved. It j 
was agreed that the policy should i 
be redrafted and brought back to j 
the Faculty Senate at a later date, j
Cash In.
At campus.HotDispatch.com.
Coalition looks at improving atmosphere of dining facilities
Faculty Senate approves much debated health benefits proposal
HEALTH, from page 1 
Mellon University Statement of 
Assurance stating that the 
University does not discriminate in 
admission, employment, or admin
istration of its programs on the basis 
of religion, creed, ancestry, belief, 
age, veteran status, sexual orienta
tion, or in violation of federal, state, 
or local laws' or executive orders.
The report then gave an overview 
of the new^health,.coverage includ
ing statements on tolerance, recog
nition, and cost. The HRC conduct
ed several hearings beginning in the 
spring of 1999 through February 
2000 in order to listen to CMU fac
ulty, staff, and students.
According to the report, two main 
conflicting arguments came up dur
ing these, hearings. One was the 
concept of the traditional family in 
the United States. Many argued that 
the traditional family structure is 
falling apart and that the campus 
must refrain from doing anything 
that will contribute to that diminishment and destruction.
The second argument isthat of 
religion. According to the report, 
several hearing attendees came carrying their Bibles. They argued that 
homosexuality is contrary to their 
religious beliefs and, therefore, 
must not be justified by the 
University.On the supporting side, attendees 
argued that the current benefits pol
icy is discriminatory. According to 
the report, several members of the 
community argue that the 
University is now offering different 
compensation for heterosexual cou
ples than homosexual couples for 
the same job by giving the married 
couples additional health benefits.
Extending benefits to a broader 
class of people is a worthy goal, 
said Peter Boatwright, writer of the 
response to the report.
On the issue of tolerance, the 
report stated that this is one value 
that has become one of the central 
traits of life at CMU. According to 
the report, Carnegie Mellons 
diverse campus requires that every
one be tolerant and respectful of 
other ethnic groups, religions, and 
sexual orientations.
Dealing with the cost issue, one 
point would be that most homosex
ual partners both have full-time 
jobs. Gary Gates, a doctoral student
in the Heinz school estimates that 
70% of partnered gays and lesbians 
have partners who have other full 
time employment, and that only 
about 0.45% of CMU faculty and 
staff would be likely to request ben
efits for their same-sex partners. 
Thus, the report argues that cost is 
not a major consideration.
Robert Griffiths, Otto Stern 
University Professor of Physics, and 
Bruce .Krogh, professor of Electrical 
Engineering, in their response to the 
report listed the pros and cons of the 
new benefits. It was acknowledged 
that this could easily become an 
issue of morals but that it was in the 
best interest of the University to 
leave that aspect out of the decision
making process. One concern with 
the report was if benefits are 
extended in the manner HRC is 
proposing, this means CMU is tak
ing a position in favor of homosexu
al marriages, or at least redefining 
the term marriage, something out
side the Universitys domains of 
competence and purposes as stated 
in its own mission statement. They 
also did not want the decision to 
appear political. The report did 
raise the question of employment
competition and example among 
other universities, and CMU does 
not want to choose this as a means 
of attractive employment.
According to Toby Davis, chair
man of the HRC, a survey reveals 
that a number of univrsities extend 
benefit to same-sx partners, but 
many do not. The universities that 
do are located mostly on the East 
and West coasts. Both Krogh and 
Griffiths seem to agree that the 
decision must be made in the best 
interest of the University and its 
employees.
This issue has been around for a 
long time, said Davis. I can say 
weve discussed it within the com
mission from time to time, probably 
over a period of ten years. We were 
never able to come to a useful con
clusion. President Cohon has also 
addressed this issue. Last year, he 
announced his commitment to 
diversity on campus and finding a 
solution that worked for CMU. 
However he did not take, a position 
on whether or not he felt the bene
fits should be extended.
CMU, however, has not encoun
tered the same tension as the 
University of Pittsburgh has with
this issue. Recently about 70 people 
unsuccessfully rallied outside Pitts 
Student Union in support of the 
benefits. Pitt spokesman Ken 
Service said the protest was nothing 
new and reconfirmed the 
Universitys position that it does not 
discriminate. Allegheny County 
Judge Robert Gallo is expected to 
rule soon on a request by Pitt to bar 
the city from hearing a discrimifiation case brought by seven employ
ees, who felt that the school was dis
criminating against them by not 
offering their same sex partners 
health benefits.
The HRC hoped to prevent prob
lems like these by holding hearings 
on the issue. We came to the con
clusion that we ought to listen to our 
own campus, thats the purpose of 
the hearings, said Davis. T 
The hearings and deliberation; of 
Faculty Senate members resulted, in 
acceptance of the extended benefits 
plan on the basis of dependents. It 
states, in very general terms, those 
who receive benefits are depen
dents of the employee and the sim
ple existence of dependents points 
out the need for some entity to pro
vide for them.
Call Studteuu
xc C9Im hms1r eI22 9e fpTMW SsasW 9m vDvOOE xc HM1rI.H C9Im i1442l rsilE 
tsi&Icdf9uF1c&sutLdt9i tsr uImr uLsu Rr9w2l4nl 1ru9 tscLz
f9uF1c&sutL 1c uLl 9r21rl ismRlu&2stl wLlml &l9&2l hIC sr4 cl22 
ultLr1ts2 l.&lmu1cld gl,Ilculmc &9cu uLl1m ,Ilcu19rc w1uL s &m1tl 
uLlC:22 &sC e9m sr srcwlmd bm9a14lmc (uLsu:c C9IW nlr1Icz) 
mlc&9r4 9r21rl w1uL srcwlmcW sr4 ka-ching! C9I:ml isR1rn 
i9rlCd $m9i C9Im 49mi m99id Llr C9I wsrud 1uL9Iu 
t9ii1uilrud $9m free.
pmsrcstu1rn clma1tlc 9r21rl 1c uLl wsal 9e uLl eIuIml sr4 
f9uF1c&sutL nluc C9I 1r 9r uLl nm9Ir4 g99md pLl 9&&9muIr1u1lc 
sml 21i1u2lccd sru u9 scR s ,Ilcu19rE !cl 9Im =# 
c&lr41rn tml41ud sru s t2scc r9ulc l.tLsrnlE
9I n9u 1uz 5r4 414 wl ilru19r wl:ml L1m1rnE
Join the HotDispatch revolution! Register by 
3/31/00 and you'll be automatically entered 
into the $75,000 HotDispatch Sweepstakes!
(See campus.hotdispatch.com for details.)
tures of the new cafeteria will be a 
mural of Pittsburgh's three rivers to 
greet students upon entering 
Highlander.
Other features, according to 
Blankertz, are a new fountain in the 
center of the first floor, where the 
salad bar is now, and a memorabilia 
room dealing with CMU Athletics, 
Buggy, Academics, History, and 
Student Life. The main room is 
planned to contain classic black and 
white photography of CMU events 
and activities as well as student pho
tos of all things CMU, from the past 
and the present. On the walls, a 
panoramic view of well-known 
Pittsburgh neighborhoods will be 
painted.
The name of Highlander is 
planned to be changed to Scotties, 
according to Blankertz, to signify a 
complete transformation. One of 
the most interesting proposed 
changes to Highlander will be the 
addition of Andys Diner, a 50sstyle diner, which will feature 
booths, a jukebox, and a soda foun
tain, located where the smoking 
room is now. CDNA would like to 
have Andys Diner open until 2 in 
the morning, to give students an 
extra late-night dining option, as 
well.
Other possible features of the new 
Highlander will be fresh flowers 
acquired from Phipps Conservatory 
to decorate the cafeteria, a place to 
get smoothies, a bakery display 
case, an espresso counter, as well as 
a place for students to get bag 
lunches, as a way to speed up the 
process of getting lunch on days 
when they are in a hurry.
According to the coordinators,
by Laine ToweyAssistant News Editor
Changes are -coming for the 
Highlander Caf, and it's not just the 
food that will be revamped. CDNA 
(the Coalition for Dinings New 
Atmosphere) 2000 has announced 
its plans to redecorate the campus 
dining hall, turning it into a celebra
tion of CMU's heritage and tradi
tions.
Highlander needs to be more of a
welcoming place, says Elizabeth. 
Dodson, an undecided first-year 
students in H&SS, who co-coordi
nates CDNA along with Christine 
Blankertz, a first-year student 
majoring in business administra
tion.
The coalition has many plans to 
completely remodel Highlander 
over this coming summer to 
improve the atmosphere.
In the fall, all things going to plan, 
students will return to a brand new 
Highlander. One of the planned feauLl 21cu 9e 1i&m9alilruc mltlru2C is4l u9 uLl tselulm1s8c e994 sr4 cluu1rnd
HotDispatch

---------------------------------------------------

ITHE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 2000
University honors student employees
by Sara StilleNews Editor
Many students at Carnegie 
Mellon obtain campus jobs to 
enhance their rsums or just for 
the sake of making some money. 
Little do they know, however, how 
much their employers appreciate 
their time and efforts. Last week 
President Cohon hoped to change 
that by naming it Student 
Employment Appreciation Week in 
recognition of the many contribu
tions students make at CMU.
In honor of the week, Enrollment 
Services and the Career Center 
held a reception on Friday, April 7, 
to.award 15 individuals and one 
team Student Employee of the 
Year awards. The award program 
was established last year by Pati 
Kravetz, the coordinator of campus 
employment, and Elaine Taillon, 
the Enrollment Services program 
administrator for financial aid.
The Student Employee of the 
Year Program' was initiated to 
honor student employees who pro
vide essential services to offices, 
laboratories, and other facilities 
throughout campus. President 
Cohon has been very supportive of 
the program, said Kravetz. 
Approximately 40 percent of the 
student body works on campus in 
some fashion. These student 
employees are important partners 
with our staff and faculty ensuring 
the smooth functioning of our pro
grams and services.
All undergraduate and graduate 
students enrolled at CMU were eligible to be nominated by campus 
faculty and staff. The nominated 
students were judged by a commit
tee of four staff members and one 
student according to reliability, 
quality of work, initiative, disposi
tion, and contribution.
Award winners came from all 
aspects of the campus, including 
students from cluster services and 
the athletic department.
Yen Liu works at the Role Models 
Program, a tutoring program for 
children in the Hill District. I guess 
I am surprised to be nominated by 
my boss, because I am just the same 
as the other tutors in the program, 
said Liu. One thing I really enjoyed 
in my work is being exposed to such 
a different group. I have never seen 
the other side of the society, and all 
the children have taught me a lot.
Roman Stanchak is the Technical 
Opportunities Conference Website 
designer/administrator and works 
in the Biomedical and Health 
Engineering department. My boss 
told me that she was going to nom
inate me for it and apparently took 
a bit of time to write up a recom
mendation and all, which in actual
ity means a lot more to me than 
actually receiving the award in 
itself, said Stanchak.
Other winners include Kimberly 
Algeri, Jason Brunsell, Cheryl 
Ciesielski, Amy Beth Cyphert, 
Zalenda Cyrille, Frederick Colt 
Foutz, Roxanne Greby, Tara Klim, 
Takford Mau, Cindy Meisner, 
Melissa Pasquinelli, Justin Peroli, 
Tsuan-Ta Wang, Thomas Lianza, 
Ridzwan Nordin, and Michael 
James Walsh.
5iC oluL vC&LlmuW s 0Ir19m lrn21cLD&m9elc19rs2 sr4 tmlsu1al wm1u1rn is09mW 
mltl1al4 s 6uI4lru Ai&29Cll 9e uLl lsm 5wsm4 9r $m14sCd 6Ll wsc r9i1P
rsul4 hC T1tLl22l 7msh em9i 6uI4lru 5ees1mcd
Crime and Incident Report
4/1 TRESPASSING, 3:12 AM  A CPS employee 
reported a suspicious person on the third floor of the 
University Center. When an officer arrived at the 
scene, the CPS employee stated that a white male had 
been sleeping in the first floor mens locker room, but 
that he was now in the third floor bathroom. The offi
cer waited for the male to exit the bathroom and then 
asked him if he had any affiliation with the University. 
The male said No, but that he was locked out of his 
apartment and was looking for a place to sleep. The 
officer told the male this was private property and that 
he would be arrested if he returned.
4/2 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 4:07 PM  An offi
cer reported to the fourth floor of Wean Hall to find 
that person(s) unknown had turned on an emergency 
shower. There were a couple of inches of water in the 
4300 corridor and in the hallway leading toward 
Doherty Hall. Water also dripped down to the corri
dors on the third and second floors. CPS was notified 
for clean up.
4/2 DEMONSTRATION, 7:33 PM  While con
ducting an exterior check of the Software Engineering 
Institute, an officer saw approximately 20 people hold
ing a demonstration on the patio area. The group was 
holding a sign stating Stop the Animal experimenta
tion. A guard spoke to the crowd, who stated they 
were holding a peaceful vigil. The guard radioed and 
received permission to have the group move off of the 
patio and onto the sidewalk. The demonstrators stated 
they were finished and left the area.
4/3 THEFT, 2:46 AM  An officer reported to 
Wean Hall to investigate the theft of a faculty mem
bers bowl of candy. The faculty member had left his 
room to talk to a colleague and returned to find the 
object missing from the top of the refrigerator. Several
floors were searched for suspicious actors, with nega
tive results.
4/3 FIRE, 9:06 PM  A dispatcher was informed 
that the stove in the basement of Mudge House was on 
fire. The dispatcher advised the caller to evacuate the 
building and pull the fire alarm on the way out. Upon 
arrival, the officer noticed smoke coming out of the 
stove and filling the hallway. The stove could not be 
opened so the officer unplugged it. Later it was discov
ered that there was no fire inside, only a melted plastic 
item. The area was ventilated by the fire department.
4/7 MEDICAL, 1:22 AM  An officer and EMS 
reported to Frew Street for a buggy pushed into a vehi
cle and a driver with possible back injuries. The victim 
was inside the buggy and complaining of upper back 
pain. The buggy pusher had let go of the buggy and it 
veered right into a parked car. The rescue unit evaluat
ed the situation and decided to cut the victim out of the 
buggy and transport the victim to the hospital. The 
buggys windshield was shattered and the cars 
bumper was scratched and seperated from the frame.
 Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to release. Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the staffwmter typing the report.
 All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
6sms 6u122l
IDS program experiences changes
IDS, from pagertl
and then its still hard to give them 
the personal attention they need. 
Students werent really being wellserved with the old program, said 
Heimann.
Heimann also said that faculty 
burn-out has been a problem due to 
the pressures of such an unbalanced 
student-faculty ratio. He said that it 
has been difficult to maintain facul
ty and also to find new members 
that fit into the program. I love 
teaching and the students, but they 
deserve more attention and we need 
more faculty to do this, said 
Heimann.
These arguments caused H&SS to 
start planning changes to IDS last 
year. They decided to start the ISP, 
which included four separate 
majors: English, philosophy, statis
tics, and IDS. ISP included an inter
disciplinary intro course that pilot
ed this semester. The course is 
intended to introduce students to 
the different areas of the program. 
We hoped that this structure would 
be attractive to students, but no one 
ended up feeling this was an ideal 
solution to the problem, said 
Greenhouse.
The college revisited the issue and 
decided that the former IDS major, 
currently housed in the SDS depart
ment, will be replaced by a general 
Information Systems (IS) major 
offered by the college of Humanities 
and Social Sciences. The new IS 
major will offer several tracks from 
within the college, including one in 
SDS that will be very similar to the 
IDS program. Other currently 
approved tracks are similar to the 
individual majors in the ISP, includ
ing English, statistics, and philoso
phy. Greenhouse said that while the 
major will start out with these four 
tracks, he hopes the coverage will 
expand to include specializations 
such as decision science, organiza
tions, data mining, and computa
tion social science. Students should 
graduate well-rounded with these 
tracks and a background in IS, said 
Greenhouse.
The SDS track will allow current 
IDS majors to pursue the same 
material and focus as they were in 
the old structure. They will still be 
able to do everything they expected 
to do, but now they can also pursue 
other interests and tracks. Thats 
one of the great strengths of the 
new system, said Greenhouse.
I think the attempts to provide 
more choices for IDS majors in 
terms of coursework, by offering a 
variety of tracks, is a reasonable 
idea, since in the past the major has 
been very structured. I also think 
that the switch to one major, 
Information Systems, with separate 
tracks within it, is preferable to the 
original ISP program concept, said 
Jay Snyder, a sophomore IDS major. 
The two most significant issues 
with this restructuring to me, how
ever, are that steps are taken to 
improve the Fundamentals of 
Information Systems course and 
that H&SS attempts to recruit more 
faculty members to teach the tech
nical core.
Another student agrees that the 
introductory course, Fundamentals 
of Informational Systems, needs to 
be improved. I think its good that 
they are proactively looking for 
ways to expand the major and com
bine it with other fields, however I 
think that the current proposals still 
need a little work, said Suzie 
Chung, a sophomore in IDS. I dont 
like being forced to take the new 
class, Fundamentals of Information 
Systems. Its supposed to be an 
introductory course on all the new 
majors, but I dont care. I am IDS 
and I know it. I dont need to take a 
poorly organized class that has 
nothing to do with me.
The college is also looking at 
working with the Masters in 
Information Systems program in the 
Heinz School in an attempt to 
expand their resources and faculty. 
According to Heimann, there will 
also be a third faculty member start
ing in the fall.
Another factor of the new struc
ture will involve placing a cap on the
number of students that can declare 
an IS major. All current first-year 
and sophomore students will be 
able to declare the major, but, in the 
future, students who apply to H&SS 
will have the option of applying 
directly to th IS major. A certain 
number of students will be accepted 
into the major each year. Other stu
dents will have the option of trans
ferring in at a later date if there is 
extra space. Hopefully the restrict
ed size will allow the current faculty 
to be adequate. No one was really 
happy with the idea of a cap, but the 
conflict between limited resources 
and growth made it necessary, said 
Greenhouse.
GauravMundra, a sophomore IDS 
major, came into CMU as a comput
er science major. When he decided 
he wanted to change into the IDS 
program, he thought the transition 
would be smooth, but it was actual
ly very difficult because of the 
resource issues. The reason I was 
not given a seat was because of a 
shortage of resources ... I pay 
$30,000 to this university and cant 
be provided with adequate faculty, 
big enough classrooms, or even a 
fair competition to getting into a 
major in such high demand, said 
Mundra. With the recent changes 
made to the program, he was even
tually given a spot in IS. The 
change is in the correct direction, 
but it leaves so much more that 
would make things better for a stu
dent to be desired, said Mundra.
On the whole, Im optimistic 
about the changes. Faculty attention 
and course variety should increase 
and the program should be more 
attractive for faculty to be at and 
stay at, said Heimann. There are 
still a lot of details to be worked out, 
though. Faculty are still limited and 
there will still be challenges. In the 
long run, though, students should 
be much better off. Heimann also 
said that interim dean of H&SS, 
John Lehoczky, really seems to care 
about this program and is seriously 
working to find a long term solu
tion.
Katie Aerni/Photo Staff
Chicago Tribune ml&9mulmc klr 5micum9rn sr4 6ulal T122c a1c1ul4 vT! 2scu pLImc4sC u9 c&lsR sh9Iu uLl1m B/// 
1ralcu1nsu1al clm1lc 9r uLl 4lsuL &lrs2uC 1r x221r91cd pLl1m ml&9mu1rn Ll2&l4 u9 hm1rn rsu19rs2 suulru19r u9 4lsuL 
&lrs2uC is2&mstu1tl 1r uLl cusuld pLlC ml&9mul4 uLsu c1rtl B/__ uLlml Lsal hllr B# l.ltIu19rcW hIu s2c9 BU 
l.9rlmsu19rcd
TOYOTA-IOI
MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY 
INTRODUCINGTOYOTA ECHO
pfAgA86 5N AvfV V!p pfAgAz 7mlsu 299Rc 9r uLl 9Iuc14lW nmlsu m99i 9r uLl 1rc14ld 
vmI1cl uLl L1nLwsC su "' Tb7?dddalmC uLm1euCd b9wlmE b2lruCz xu8c s Bd 21ulm L1GultL 
B as2al bVvf lrn1rl w1uL asm1sh2l as2al u1i1rn (rlw) uLsu R1tRc 9Iu B' L9mcl&9wlm 
srC u1il C9I wsru 1ud 5r4 hlcu 9e s22W AtL9 1c uLl 29wlcu &m1tl4 p9C9usz
New (Finance Plan) thru Toyota Motor Credit helps those with limited 
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.
r <3B> TOYOTA real values, everyday.-, wWW.0ettOyOta.COm
'EPA estimated nDins City/Hwy automatic, ncicu City/Hwy manual.
$9m 6usmuG!&cz 
Business Incubator
 Individual Offices
 1800 sqf Suite
 6000 sqf Suite
Internet Ready with Fiber 
Optic Lines
Call: 431-8200, Peter Smerd 
Boulevard Building, Inc.
'Priced
WE BEAT ALL 
PRICES ON HARD, 
TAPE, DLT DRIVES!
Seagate  ZaeuUutK
iVeculett "Ptic/icvui
VISA
Call for a Quote
1-800-432-7199

---------------------------------------------------

A Special FREE Offer from lnvestorPlace.com...
oAAlwAahw O:: EOxwlCal ml::hw pOFr:Ag Ow* IAO,,B 
bly xlkhxA xlPlO:R RaJ :aAA:ldfwhywW 
glA RaGk:lW RAxOAlCalR A5OA FOw---
ollume99e tho value of your 
403(b) by $10,000, $20,000 if mor in 2000!
Most of the Carnegie Mellon faculty and staff are 
wasting hundreds of thousands of dollars, and 
threatening their future retirement security, and 
theres simply no reason for it! In fact, by spending just 
15 minutes a month managing your 403(b) investments bet
ter, and employing the simple strategies revealed in this new 
report, you can easily earn market-beating returns in the 
Carnegie Mellon retirement plan. In 1999, these strategies 
helped thousands grow their wealth 50% faster than the typi
cal mutual fund investor, and 25% to 30% quicker than the 
S&P 500. If you have just $50,000 in your Carnegie Mellon 
retirement plan today, these strategies can easily increase 
your net worth by an additional $10,000 or more in 2000.
Over the past 9 years Ive helped thousands of investors 
maximize their 403(b), increasing the value of their nest 
eggs by $10,000, $20,000, even $50,000 in a single year, 
says investor advocate Dan H 
Wiener. All it takes is an 
investment of 15 minutes a 
month, and a sincere commit
ment to achieve the retirement 
of your dreams.
Inside this valuable new report 
that no Carnegie Mellon 403(b) 
Investor should be without:
Dan Wiener has developed 
proprietary systems for maxi
mizing 403(b) returnswith 
less risk.
In his new Special Report, 
Dan Wiener reveals six simple 
strategies for maximizing your 
retirement portfolio, including:
= f9w C9I tsr cl2ltu 9r2C uLl hlcu 
1ralcuilruc si9rncu uLl vsmrln1l Tl229r 
&2sr s2ulmrsu1alc
= pw9 c1i&2l cumsuln1lc e9m csel2C cI&lmP
tLsmn1rn C9Im mlu1mlilru &2sr w1uL 49uGd 
t9iG21Rl ultL &m9e1uc
= f9w u9 sa914 uLl e1al i9cu t9ii9r "'U(h) 
1ralcu1rn i1cusRlc
= b2Ic iItLW iItL i9ml
 How to put the current tech-stock boom to work growing your 403(b) plan. Most investors are 
simply sitting on the side
lines, wishing their retirement plan were growing at 
the rate of a dot-com superstar. But now you can har
ness those historic profits, and be well-positioned to 
retire five or 10 years early, without lowering your 
retirement standards one bit.
 5 serious risks to your retirement plan that Carnegie 
Mellon probably hasnt told you about. Any one of 
these can both rob you of your profits and increase 
your risk of not achieving your retirement goals.
 The problem with those independent star ratings of major 403(b) mutual funds. Look at the literature 
from your 403(b) company, and youd think that every 
investment choice they offer were going to be a top 
performer this year. Unfortunately, thats simply not the
FFSA is not affiliated with the Vanguard Group of Investment companies. 
Only one requiest per customer, thank you.
=d A.stu2C L9w u9 nm9w a9Im rlcu lnn pxvA sc 
escu sc uLl uC&1ts2 "'U(h) 1ralcu9m
case. In his new report, Dan Wiener guides you to find
ing next years top performing 403(b) investments today.
 How to put only the BEST investment managers to work growing your retirement plan. Dan Wieners 
exclusive fund manager ranking system helps you 
track a managers performance from the day he or 
she began managing money. Why should you have to 
settle for anyone with less than a top rating for his 
entire career?
Why not make sure Deee is the year 
that vou earn an extra $ue,eee, $DeWeee 
or more in your retirement plan?
This new report is not for everyone. If youre willing to
simply entrust your 403(b) 
retirement savings to some
one else, and dont want to 
spend an extra 15 minutes 
a month maximizing your 
wealth, then you really 
shouldnt waste your time 
with this new report.
On the other hand, if you 
believe you can do better 
than mediocre investment 
performance, and want a few 
simple strategies that can 
easily earn you an extra 
$10,000, $20,000 or more in 
2000, then youll be glad you 
requested Dan Wieners new 
report 403(b) Profit 
Secrets.
Get your FREE 
Report Today
Call 1-800-211-6359
today. Theres no cost 
or obligation.
403(b) Investor 
Dept. 52G001 
7811 Montrose Road 
Potomac, MD 20854
403(b) Profit
SECRETS
Howyou canearn an extra $10,000, $20,000 or more in 2000
By Dan Wiener

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
10 April 2000THE TARTANPage 6
Activities Board fails to deliver 
sufficient events to students
A visit to the Activities Board (AB) Web 
site yields a graphic that says, A flashy ad 
for a totally awesome event sponsored by 
AB would normally go here. This blank 
advertisement seems to exemplify the cur
rent state of AB: an organization that is 
charged with bringing events to campus, 
but that has been unable to do so.
Upperclassmen may have noticed a 
recent lack of decent concerts, comedians, 
shows, and events. While in the past acts 
such as They Might be Giants and comedi
ans such as Andy Richter appeared at CMU, 
of late there have been very few notable 
activities for students to attend. AB has not 
been maintaining its standards for quality 
events and advertising.
AB receives over $220,000 each year 
from the student activities fee to fund its 
programs and activities. This money is 
channeled into the AB committees: Tech, 
Films, Special Events, Concerts, 
Coffeehouse, Comedy, Lectures and 
Political Speakers, and Underground. Some 
of these committees, such as AB 
Coffeehouse, use the money well. Others, 
notably Concerts, Comedy, and Lectures, 
have lacked in student programming for the 
past year.
Jane GoodalPs presentation is the only 
event in recent memory that was heavily 
attracted members of the campus. 
However, it has been a long time since a bigname band or comedian has performed on 
campus. Students at similar universities see 
such acts as the Dave Matthews Band and 
Garbage in concert or Paula Poundstones 
comedic acts. Two years ago AB brought 
Henry Rollins, They Might be Giants, Andy 
Richter, Darrell Hammond, Norm 
MacDonald, and the Jon Spencer Blues 
Explosion in the span of one year. Since
then, good acts, such as Soul Coughing last 
Carnival, have made scarce appearances. 
But in general, students do not see the types 
of acts that they expect given their payment 
of the activities fee.
The most important thing AB should do 
to improve its offerings is to gather input 
from students and find out what kind of 
activities they want. It should solicit ideas 
for speakers, bands, and comedians. With 
these suggestions, the organization can 
then use the money they have to book acts 
and events that students want. It is wrong 
that so much of the students money is 
being spent by the organization without 
any of their input.
In addition, even when there are events 
on campus, they are not as widely adver
tised as they could be. ABs publicity seems 
to have taken a turn for the worse. It needs 
to advertise committees other than Film 
more. Students will then know whom to 
contact to contribute their ideas.
Currently, AB still has money left over 
from the $220,000 that they started with 
last semester. Seniors who graduate this 
year may never see the results of the money 
they contributed if is not spent. The big 
Carnival act, George Clinton and 
Parliament Funkadelic cancelled at the last 
minute. As a result, AB Concerts alone will 
have around $10,000 left in its budget after 
Spring Carnival. This money should be 
pooled together with other leftover AB 
funds to plan for a large event at the end of 
the semester.
AB has an adequate budget to bring big 
acts and events to campus, especially com
pared to universities of similar size. AB 
must reaffirm its goals and start serving the 
students that count on it to bring them the 
best activities available.
Eateries improve services, but 
food still leaves bad taste in mouth
As a result of widespread criticism about 
the quality and variety of food on campus, 
Dining Services is making sweeping 
changes. These changes have been positive 
and are a step in the right direction. Dining 
Services should continue to improve its ser
vices to campus. At the same time, students 
must be wary that while services are 
improving, the quality of the food still 
leaves much to be desired. Students will still 
be getting charged premium prices for not 
so premium foods.
Positive changes have taken place across 
campus in nearly all campus eateries. 
Schatz has seen many improvements, from 
new juice and water machines to hot cereal 
with toppings and daily fresh fruit. The 
Gallery Food Court (second floor of the UC) 
has added Panini sandwiches, pizza by the 
slice, ice cream novelties, and expanded 
Grab N Go selections. Highlander has 
added a weekly Bravsimo chef station 
offering omelets to Cajun shrimp linguini to 
bananas foster. Highlander also received a 
100% passing report from the Health 
Department.
Since the Parkhurst company took over, 
food selections have increased and food 
presentation has also improved. And next 
year, students can expect an entirely new 
Highlander experience if the Coalition for 
Dinings New Atmosphere (CDNA) gets its
way. These changes would include a better 
atmosphere for students, and bag lunches 
for those students in a rush to get to class.
If these efforts continue, Dining Services 
will be better fulfilling its role on campus. 
However, though presentation and selec
tion of food and dining areas is improving, 
the food is not. While it will be nice to have 
a more comfortable environment in which 
to eat, the food itself needs to improve in 
not only quality, but also in nutritional 
value; a larger selection of available options 
does not necessarily mean healthier 
options. Students deserve premium quality 
for the premium prices they pay compared 
to outside vendors. Dining Services should 
not only focus its attention on atmosphere 
and presentation  it also needs to improve 
the heart of their service: the food.
The proposed Highlander changes and 
the recent activity by Dining Services is wel
come, but students should continue asking 
for better products. Dining Services should 
not pass the cost of these changes on to the 
student body when the changes students 
desire lie not in appearances but in the food 
itself. Everyone should keep a wary eye on 
the food he or she eats on campus. It might 
look better, and students might be more 
comfortable eating it, but if the food hasnt 
improved, then people still will not getting 
what theyre paying for.
THE TARTAN 9
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1 go6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief 
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed.
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Staff Manager 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
GABRIEL SABOURIN, Asst. Art Editor 
LILY AHN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, Jonathan 
Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan Steinwald
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Letters to the Editor
CMU deserves more pride
Editor:
Everybody knows that CMU is an expensive and excellent University, but to let 
Sean Mintus say, Screw you CMU, and it 
aint the yellow bricks, is going 
too far.
In my opinion the students at CMU dont
know how nice they have it.
Dr. Max H. Burns 
Academy of Life Long Learning 
Alumni House
Elian encounter plagues nations media
6lsr T1ruIc
You know, a Jot has been happening 
around the country in the past few months. 
A presidential race, aimed at determining 
who will stand at the helm of this country 
for the next four years, is underway. The 
government has recently distributed a 
nationwide census, 
which hopefully will 
efficiently allot feder
al funds for the next 
decade. Adolf Hitler 
has returned to earth 
in the form of a giant, 
spoiled chimichanga, 
aided in his quest for 
world domination by 
Gallagher and two 
members of ABBA. Of 
course, no one has 
noticed any of this, 
because everyone has 
been too busy watch
ing The Battle for 
Elian Gonzalez, or 
sitting in a cluster and 
coding.
How sad is it that 
our viewing pleasure 
has been compro
mised? We, as citi
zens, should be able to turn to television for 
information, knowledge, and, above all 
things, emotional comfort. After all, as a 
generation, we were essentially raised by 
TV. You know its true. I cant remember 
either of my siblings birthdays, but I can 
tell you exactly where I was when word got 
out that Saved by the Bell was cancelled. I 
dont care about most peoples difficulties 
in love, but I cried when my favorite two Friends called it quits. My high school grad
uation? Just a blur. But when I first saw
Homer Simpsons robust belly and balding 
head all those years ago, I knew that I was 
part of something special.
But seriously, where does the blame fall 
for this hostile takeover of my televisionbased psyche? None other than the media. 
Honestly, if it werent for all of the televi
sion, newspaper, and magazine coverage of 
what has evolved into a full-scale political 
war, nobody outside of Miami-Dade 
County would care about Elian. Of course, 
I realize how silly of me it is to wish that the 
American people would concentrate their 
efforts on the estimated two million homeJustin Suissa/Art Editor
less children who are American citizens, but 
the media certainly isnt helping things.
Im barely able to open a newspaper 
without seeing a new headline regarding 
the status of Americas favorite Cuban since 
Ricky Ricardo. And television, my mostRachel, 
beloved resource of information, is no bet
ter. In fact, recent newscasts around here 
have consisted of 29 minutes of Elian, and 
then this:
SPORTS: One team won. Another team, 
most likely the one who played that first
team, lost.
WEATHER: Cold and rainy. Remember 
that you live in Pittsburgh.
INTERNATIONAL: We are Americans. 
Who cares?
As much as I would like to, I cant even 
blame the government for this mess. The 
Immigration Naturalization Service (INS) 
has been resolute in the governments 
decision to send the boy back to Cuba for 
some time now. The law states that a 
minors nation of residence is determined 
by where his parents live. Since Davey 
Jones locker is not officially recognized as 
a sovereign nation by the United 
States, Elians father has custody; 
not his mother, or his grand
mother or his great uncle, or his 
sisters nieces cousins aunts 
half-brothers father-in-laws for
mer roommate. If Elians family 
wants to prove his father unfit to 
raise a child, fne. Difficulty is, 
until he is proven unfit, he stills 
lives with his dad.
Elian cant even take advantage 
of Americas horrendously ludi
crous system of granting political 
asylum to anyone who manages 
to reach our shores, because he 
was found floating in the middle 
of the ocean. So its time for 
south Florida, in all of its 
Cubanness, or perhaps 
Cubanicity, to accept this and go 
back to being a happy, healthilytanned tourist trap. But more so, 
its time for the media to shift its 
gaze from petty squabbling over a boy who 
doesnt care where he lives  so long as 
people keep sending him Furbies  to 
issues of much greater national and inter
national importance ... like Ross and
Sean Mintus is a first-year professional and creative writing major. And yes, he recognizes the hypocrisy in using a popular media format to criticize the media, so shul up.
Mummy thank goodness we have London back
5clli 7I&us
There is no city in the world that is as 
perfect as London, so when British Airways 
stopped flying between Pittsburgh and 
London last October, it was as if somebody 
cut off one of my fingers. It was painful. 
Do you know how it is not to have ready 
access to haggis, fish and chips, warm 
Guinness, and a football game? Trust me, 
it isnt fun.
By now youre asking, why dont you just 
fly through some other airport like 
Newark? Well, my friends, I was just there 
last week on my way back from London. 
Have you ever been to Newark? Newark is 
the most evil place that I have ever visited 
in my entire life. In short, it was like 
putting K2 between Pittsburgh and 
London.
If it werent for the H. J. Heinz company 
down on Progress Street, I would have 
probably packed my bags and said good
bye to Pittsburgh last October, and moved 
on to Boston or Philadelphia  even 
Cleveland, of all places, has a London link. 
But the lure of Heinz ketchup kept me here. 
Every day I stood at my window and gazed 
eastward toward that wonderful island 
hoping that someone would realize the 
incredible travesty that was unfolding in 
this city.
However, I was not the only one being 
deprived. Pittsburgh as a city was losing 
out big time by not having a direct link to 
London. County Executive Jim Roddey 
estimated that the city was losing in the 
neighborhood of $50 million each year, 
which exceeds the approximately $35 mil
lion that PNC makes for Pittsburgh annual
ly. When British Airways "suspended" their 
Pittsburgh service, the Brits awarded the 
route to Richard Bransons Virgin Atlantic, 
allowing the British airline to commence
services between London and Las Vegas. 
Viva Las Vegas, baby, but theyve got 
enough cash over there to last a lifetime, 
and theyre only a couple of hours away 
from San Francisco, LA, or Phoenix, all of 
which have myriad London services.
To my great relief, as well as the citys, 
the almighty British Empire relented last 
week and decided to allow US Airways to 
resume the service abandoned by British 
Airways. Starting in July, US Airways will 
fly non-stop from Pittsburgh to London, 
and all will be well again. Congratulations 
to Pittsburgh, and all the politicians who 
made this momentous occasion possible. 
Pittsburgh is once again connected to the 
world. No longer do we have to deal with 
those imbecilea at Newark, and we can 
once again be sitting in front of a plate of 
mashed peas and haddock in less than 
eight hours.
Aseem Gupta is a Sophomore IDS major. He welcomes all responsible replies.

---------------------------------------------------

7
THE TARTAN
'Gamegit Mellon s Student Newspaper Since igo6
SENIOR STAFF 
Andy Francis, Emily Landes, Rifti 
Svarcas
STAFFWRITERS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Cation, Cliff Chien, Krissy 
Choi, Rob Cullen, Donny Debarr, 
Elizabeth Dodson, Derek Dreyer, Frank J. 
Fleming, Colt Foutz, Heather Frantz, 
William-Neil Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, 
Rosie Jones, Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, 
Eunice Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew 
Lanken, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, Peter 
Patterson, Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas 
Pullela, Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer 
Resick, Gail Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido 
Zarrella
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor 
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rugen
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony DAuria, Matthew 
Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, 
Peter Wang
DARKROOM 
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Ko Nakatsu, 
Amy Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel.
PRODUCTION
Gopi Flaherty, Serena Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Dornfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, 
Nicholas Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Michael Castellana, Michael Cook, Dave 
del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Emily 
Gensheimer, Jay Huang, Bill Jerome, 
Douglas Jones Jr, Tim Lo, Bhumika 
Muchhala, Andre Niederberger, Damian 
Olesnycky, Vijay Palaparty, Jodi 
Poniewaz, Karthik Ramachandran, 
Christian Reed, Adam Retchless, 
Domenic Senger-Schenck, Marissa 
Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, 
Matthew Trentacoste, Huiya Xu, Sheila 
Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usu
ally, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for veri
fication. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
' Library of Congress 
ISSNM90-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.
THE TARTAN  APRIL 10. 2000
Etiquette scares writer
Tofu Inhibits Sex
by Justin Suissa
Sometimes when I walk into a 
bathroom and someone goes to the 
stall next to me before I have start
ed to pee, I get really nervous. I 
think to myself, why can't they go 
to another stall  and then I will 
look over and realize I know the 
person, and thats when things go 
really downhill. I know from that 
point on that I wont be able to pee 
in this session.
Then they look over realizing that 
I am just standing there and so I 
start to make trickle sounds with 
my mouth or I make a disgruntled 
sound letting the person next to me 
know that I am making a good faith 
effort to pee, and that I am not just 
standing there like a jerk.
Sometimes I find things to occupy 
my time like pretend to be done and 
then the second they leave make 
another attempt to pee.
However, then there might be 
another person or lots of people, 
like when a movie gets out, and I 
will be really screwed. Thats 
when I take refuge in a stall and 
decide to pee there, making it 
seem like I had an excessive bowel 
movement all along. I often make 
the mistake of standing up in the 
stall to pee, instead of sitting down 
and pretending to take a dump 
too.
Then when people look under 
the stall to see if its available, they 
freak out and think, maybe he 
thinks he is too good to pee next to 
us or what is he doing in there? 
It is at this point that I determine 
the whole event to be disastrous 
and leave the stall and make an 
announcement to the entire popu
lation of the bathroom I appreciate 
the linoleum tiling in this bath
room!, at which point everyone 
clears out and I can finally pee in 
peace.
Usually I am able to handle every
thing from here on, but sometimes I 
have other issues. For instance, the 
sinks without knobs and I don't get 
along.
Ill stand there and wave my 
hand around, hopping from one 
foot to another until water finally 
comes out. Then Ill take my hand 
out of the sink to attempt to change 
the temperature of the water turn
ing the knob that isn't there and 
the water stops. This usually goes 
on for about five minutes, then I 
need to keep moving along so 
sometimes I just pretend to wash 
my hands without water or tell 
other people that the sink is bro
ken just to make myself feel good 
about helping others. Fun fact: In 
the Jewish religion a good deed 
like the one I just described is 
called a mitzvah.
When I finally get to dry my 
hands I find that the paper towel 
dispenser is out of paper towels. 
Once again I am faced with another 
traumatic dilemma. I could wipe 
my hands on my pants, wipe my 
hands somewhere else, or try to 
play it off as if my hands are already 
dry. I usually take the third option 
and look at my hands, smile, and 
say something to the effect of wow 
they are already dry. Finally, I 
quickly exit the bathroom.
I hope that this column has 
helped teach people about bath
room etiquette.
Justin Suissa can be reached in the toilet
Students can benefit from census
Msg1us d fsi12u9r
People of the world: Unite! Fill 
out your Census 2000 form. It can 
only help you.
The effort that the Census 
Bureau is making to ensure a suc
cessful count is amazing. Not only 
are they stressing the importance 
of being counted, they are offering 
jobs to anyone who passes a 28- 
question test.
Having lived in Pittsburgh for 
two years now, Im used to people 
on the street asking me for money. 
Just as I was about to reach into my 
pocket to give that man that was 
approaching me change, he 
whipped out a census brochure and 
asked me if I wanted a job.
There are posters all around 
campus, commercials on TV, and 
even a display in the Hunt Library. 
To those of you who havent filled 
out a form yet: Take the hint.
I'm sure that many college stu
dents may wonder how the hell the 
census is going to help you, but 
trust me, it will. Not only will the 
census provide you with loads of 
statistics to include in your papers, 
but perhaps more grants and other 
types of aid could be made to col
lege students.
There are two types of forms: the 
long and the short. One in six peo
ple is asked to complete a long 
form. I was asked to complete a 
long form over spring break and it 
was virtually painless. At least 
now, the government will know 
that I, the sad soul that I am, make
about $6,000 per year. But they 
also know that I go to an expensive 
private university, so I must have a 
bunch of loans. Maybe in years to 
come, there will be more tax cred
its for our parents and, perhaps, 
ourselves. Until then, I continue to 
eat beans and rice, but happily, 
because I really like beans and rice.
Issues of privacy often come up 
when discussing the census. All 
information is confidential, but if 
you don't feel comfortable with any 
questions, just dont answer them. 
No one is going to hunt you down 
and punish you. Being counted is 
enough.
Same-sex couples are being 
urged to report their households. 
The census taken in 1990 only 
showed 150,000 same-sex house
holds, which was a vast under
count.
Same-sex households are an 
important component of American 
diversity. By participating in the 
census count the, Lesbian Gay 
Bisexual Transsexual (LGBT) pop
ulation will show policy makers 
that they are a population that 
needs to be recognized. This may 
be a little optimistic of me, but if 
same-sex households make a 
strong showing in census counts, 
perhaps more states and institu
tions will give same-sex couples the 
right to spousal benefits.
Despite the fact that this infor
mation about family life is desired, 
the census does not directly ask 
about sexual orientation and by the 
next census, scheduled for 2010, 
such a question is unlikely to be 
added. It would take federal legis
lation to require such data; this is 
to protect privacy.
In other efforts to recognize 
America's diversity, categories for 
race have been expanded. There 
are still some complaints, but the 
Census Bureau is trying. Unless 
people fill out the forms and 
express their complaints, the 
bureau wont know what to 
change.
I dont think this years census 
would be as nearly important to me 
if the government werent trying so 
hard to get people to participate. 
Well, let me correct myself. During 
the 1990 census, I remember being 
herded into my elementary 
schools gym, where they told us to 
remind our parents to fill out their 
census forms. I dont think that 
was too successful because we still 
couldnt figure out what we were 
being told. There were five senses 
and you were born with them; you 
dont have to fill out a form to get 
them. Now, I get it. Nice try, Uncle 
Sam.
This time around, I think its 
been much more effective. People 
are being encouraged to ask ques
tions and the questions are being 
answered. Fill out your census 
form. It can only help you and it 
will only take a few minutes of your 
time. If you dont, it will come back 
to kick you in the ass for the next 10 
years when the district that youre 
living in loses government funding.
LaRita Hamilton is a sophomore creative writing major. She will only take comments from people who have filled out their census form  the long one. If you have not done so she advises, Take a number. There are lots of people who want to yell at
US must abolish British imperial system
a
5r4ml N1l4lmhlmnlm
As a student from Europe, I am 
impressed by the way Americans 
make their lives easier. Drivethrough pharmacies are convenient, 
and drive-through banks make 
withdrawing large sums of money 
safer. Gas is still half the European 
price, and local calls are free. Driveby mailboxes do not require you to 
get out of your car to drop a letter, 
and 24-hour grocery stores let you 
shop when you have time. I enjoy 
the unlimited amounts of ketchup I 
can pour over my fries at fast food 
places, and adore the different fla
vors of Pop Tarts as well as a box of 
Mac and Cheese. It is easy (and hassle-free if you have the right social 
security number) to register for 
classes using OLR.
Keeping these things in mind, I 
cannot understand why America 
still sticks to.the English system of 
units, which, ironically, is abolished . 
in England and virtually every place 
under the sun.
When people asked me how tall I 
am, I realized that if you are one 
inch taller than someone who is 5 
feet 9 inches, you are not 6 feet, but 
5 feet' 10 inches. And a resolution of 
an inch leaves a lot of room for 
uncertainty.
I also had a hard time correctly 
reading a ruler, since there were 
four different lines: half-inch, quarter-inch, eighth-inch, and sixteenthinch. If you are unlucky, youll also 
have thirty-second marks as well. 
This semester I had to machine 
some parts. On the drawing, it said 
the piece was 0.375. My friend said 
it was three-eighths, but on the 
caliper I measured twenty-four sixy 
fourths. My admiration belongs to 
the machinists who have the math 
skills to understand that all three 
were correct. For example, if you 
wanted to use a wrench and a three 
eighths is too big, what do you try 
next? Seven sixteenths or one quar
ter? The same question in metric 
would be: a 18 mm is slightly too 
big, do you try a 17 mm or a 19 mm?
To make it even more challenging, 
the drills are numbered, but in the 
wrong way! A No.5 is smaller than a 
No.6. Bigger drills carry letters, but 
we leave that to more advanced 
papers.
To deal with all these issues, we 
have handy tables posted in each 
machine shop that answer these 
fundamental questions and convert 
fractions to decimals.
It becomes a total mess when both 
the imperial and the metric system 
are used at once. You take a hex 
wrench, and after a couple of trials, 
you figure out that your bolt is actu
ally a metric one. Then you have to 
find a metric hex wrench in the tool
box!
We are facing a real problem in 
physics. Masses are measured in 
pounds (lbm), but forces are given 
in poundal forces (lbf/ft*s), the sub
scripts m and f are usually omitted. 
So in the equation we have x=5 lb, 
is it a force or a mass? Go figure!
It is a major pain in the neck if you 
want to calculate something 
because you constantly have to 
watch the units. Am I in British 
Thermal Units? Is this constant 
given in square-foot-per-degree 
Fahrenheit? If you do it in metric, 
you plug the numbers in your calcu
lator, press enter and youre done!
Does anyone know how 0 and 100 
degrees Fahrenheit are defined? 
Does it not make more sense to ref
erence temperature to the points of 
freezing and boiling water? I think 
everyone knows how many inches 
there are in a foot. But how many 
feet are there in a mile (or in a nau
tical mile, for the grad students)? 
What about rods, furlongs, fathoms 
and cable lengths?
I hope I drove the point home.
We could save a lot of pain, time 
and money by simply adopting the 
metric SI system, and we would be 
able to send a woman (or a man) 
safely to the red planet and back.
Andre Niederberger is a mechanical engineering student from Switzerland. He welcomes all responsible replies to his piece.
Kerry Kravec
69&L9i9ml
AvA
Ive never heard of any of them.
Bill Mance
$1mcuGClsm cuI4lru 
TsuL
Im not familiar with them.
Carnival is coming, and with it performances by the Buzz Poets, Strangefolk, 
and Wade. We asked students what they thought of this lineup.
What do you think about the bands playing at Carnival?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Ask me something else. I think its cool; theyre good bands.
Neema Avashia
SIr19m
bm9elcc19rs2 m1u1rn
I know nothing about it, but Ive never 
heard of the bands. Two of them are fund
ed by SDC.
JoEllen Miller
$1mcuGClsm 6uI4lru 
q91tl
John Evans
SIr19m
f1cu9mC sr4 b921tC

---------------------------------------------------

PLANedu.
Forbes 
=#Sprint.
{(fumattir ittten, insttt/Uu
Bored by your 
current job 
offers?
gls21uC vs&uIml pltLr929n1lcW s vT!GN565 L1nL ultLr929nC c&1r9eeW cllRc 
tsr414sulc e9m s c9euwsml &m90ltud pLl e9229w1rn b1uuchImnLGhscl4 &smuG 
u1il &9c1u19rc (e2l.1h2l ctLl4I2l) sml sas12sh2lW w1uL uLl &9cc1h121uC 9e 
eI22Gu1il li&29Cilru 1r uLl cIiilm 9e #'''d
gvp 1c 1i&2lilru1rn s ms&14 &m9u9uC&1rn c9euwsml u992R1uW uLl 5Iu9isul4 
T94l21rn 6Cculi (5T6)W wL1tL tmlsulc UF 41n1us2 lra1m9rilruc wL1tL 
4I&21tsul sr4 l.ulr4 uLl LIisr l.&lm1lrtld
Cross-platform C++ Development 
Engineer
Object oriented use of ANSI 
C++ and the C++ standard 
library (aka STL).
Machine Vision Specialist 
C++, machine vision 
Visualization Engineer
Open Inventor, World Toolkit, 
or similar tools. C++
Windows Development Engineer 
C++, MFC, Win32 API,
Visual C++.
Test Engineer
UNIX, C++, peri, Make, purify. 
Technical Writer
LaTeX or Windows Help,
HTML.
Systems Engineer
Network setup and diagnosis 
(especially IP NAT) Windows 
95/98/NT/2000 and Linux 
repair and maintenance, File 
server administration 
(especially Samba).
Database Engineer 
SQL, knowledge of 
database market, C++.
Reality Capture Technologies
Reality, made to order.
Reality Capture Technologies is an Equal Opportunity Employer
a1rtldhm9y?mls21uCGts&uImldt9i
vvt ,v !
 $777
617/353-6000BOSTON
UNIVERSITY
Session 1: May 23July 1
Session 2: July 5-August 12 
Twelve-Week Session: May 23-August 12
Come hear what successful entrepreneurs, leading investors and lawyers have to say about kicking off a startup.- 
Get their answers and opinions on your specific questions.
Network with them and other entrepreneurial-minded attendees, one-on-one, over quality hors d'oeuvres and drinks!
flETWORKIlG & TEfim UKDIOC
HOOKMG UP lUITH THE RIGHT PEOPIE
Date: April 12, 2000 
Time: 5-7 pm
Location: Singleton Room, Roberts Hall
pL1c &srl2 w122 n1al 1rc1nLuc 1ru9 L9w uLl t9ml ulsi 9e s cusmuI& 1c e9mil4d xu w122 41ctIcc uLl m92lc uLsu lilmnl sr4 la92al sc s rlw t9i&srC nm9wc sr4 r9w lruml&mlrlImc suumstu sr4 t9i&lrcsul uLl m1nLu &l9&2l e9m uLlcl m92lcd
ESITE
Pechnology Entreprenem^iTp|
at Carnegie Mellon University
Sponaoved fuj... Cohen & Grisby
$mll s4i1cc19r e9m vT! cuI4lrucW cuseeW estI2uC sr4 s2Iir1 
=U s4i1cc19r tLsmnl &lm &srl2 e9m 9uLlmc
$9m i9ml 1re9misu19r t9rustu lc1ul?sr4mlwdtiIdl4I 9m tLltR 9Iu Luu&XDDwwwdsr4mlwdtiIdl4ID~lc1ul
YOURE NOT THE VALEDICTORIAN,YOURE THE ONIHE LL END UPWORKING FOR.- _ >*<
Win $150,000 in ''rZ*
' X. V.
Garage.coms Ultimate Student 
Business Plan Competition--
79u s nmlsu hIc1rlcc 14lsE l wsru u9 Llsm 
1ud Arulm C9Im hIc1rlcc &2sr 1r 7smsnldt9i:c 
bM5Nl4I t9i&lu1u19rd L9:c l21n1h2lE $I22P
u1il cuI4lruc em9i srC sttml41ul4 !d6d 
t922lnl 9m Ir1almc1uCd pLl u9& e1al hIc1rlcc 
&2src w122 hl &1lclrul4 u9 s 41cu1rnI1cLl4 
&smulz 9e 0I4nlc su 9Im e9s2 lalru 1r
616t9rqs6lC 1r TsCd pLl wsr1rn ulsi \__+
ws2Rc swsC w1uL 1' h1n 9rlcd
$9m t9i&2lul t9rulcu 4lus12c sr4 u9 \\ 
lrulmW tLltR Ic 9Iu su 
Luu&XDDwaawdnsmsnldt9iDbM5Nl4I
garageltTcom
wl cusmu I& cusmuI&c
Grant Thornton
{(fumat ir(efnTHE ULTIMATE
STUDENT BUSINESS PLAN COMPETITION
NopuWwnec*is/.S<j&Tfi3terlrTutteiBcef.-doy<28.2aftroata lianroonPST VuawiegaiUS "Mere. iaytttOCkkt.*to&t>aU&cj^crin*tn-ty*Giyiii/ZX>G. VtoJwne perfetto
Startup Panel Series -i
'fieittitu)...

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 20009
ONeal and Lakers victimize NBA teams as playoffs approach
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
Now that the hubbub of the NCAA Tournament has been completed, with 
lylichigan State national champions and another college basketball season 
in the books, it is now necessary to turn our attention to the NBA to get our 
hoops fix.
Its about the time of the season when things really start to get interest
ing, with teams jockeying for playoff position and the intensity of play final
ly increasing. There is a lot that has been going on this season that very like
ly may have been overlooked based upon the ratings NBA games have been 
getting, so Ill give an analysis to get everyone up to speed.
First of all, a new dominant force in the NBA has been established. Ever 
since Michael Jordans retirement, the league has been frantically looking 
for a star to bank on. Surprisingly, this player is not one of the young, 
freakishly athletic players that have been entering the league, but eightyear veteran Shaquille ONeal.
Shaq Daddy is leading the league in scoring and field goal percentage, is 
second in rebounding, and third in blocked shots. More importantly, he-is 
finally developing into a player who can carry a team, as he has led the 
Lakers to a 64-13 record. His importance was demonstrated Saturday 
when he sat out with an injured ankle and the Lakers lost to the Spurs by 
18 to snap an 11-game winning streak.
He is no longer entirely reliant upon dunks to score points, having devel
oped an assortment of post moves that are more effective than aesthetic. 
He is applying himself on the defensive end and on the boards, and has 
matured to the point that his childish conflicts with Kobe Bryant appear'do 
have ended. If only he could now start speaking audibly during interviews 
instead of mumbling unintelligibly to reporters looking for some insigftt 
from the Lakers center.
While ONeal has finally begun to fulfill his enormous potential, an 
unfortunate occurrence is happening with another young superstar.
The NBA is apparently determined to turn Vince Carter into Michael 
Jordan. Ill admit the similarities are many. The bald head, the North 
Carolina pedigree, the unbelievable leaping ability, and even a nickname, 
Air Canada, that evokes memories of MJ.
What is too bad is that rather than let the maturation of Carter take its 
natural course, the league and reporters are busy proclaiming him the
If only Shaquille ONeal could now start 
speaking audibly during interviews 
instead of mumbling unintelligibly to 
reporters looking for some insight from 
the Lakers center.
games savior. Lets think of the other players who have been pro
claimed heirs to his airness. Harold Miner? What happened to baby 
Jordan? Grant Hill is a great player, but doesnt have the capability to 
carry the league that Jordan had. Jerry Stackhouse, coming from 
Carolina, also heard the ridiculous comparisons, and has developed into 
a solid player  but not into a star.
The comparisons with Carter are bad enough, but even worse is what 
James Worthy was saying during the NCAA tournament. He proclaimed 
to anyone who would listen (and since CBS has sole rights to the tour
nament, we all had to) that freshman Joseph Forte is more developed at 
this point than Jordan was. These types of comparisons do nothing 
other than stir up controversy and place undue pressure on an 18-yearold.
The NBA and fans need to realize that until genetic cloning is feasible, 
Jordan is not going to be reincarnated. Its time for the game to move on.
While Vince Carter is just beginning his ascent, another long and distin
guished career is coming to a close this season. When the Utah Jazz 
inevitably lose in the playoffs, guard Jeff Hornaceks career will be over. 
The league will be losing one of the best pure shooters in history as well as 
one of the games class acts. Homo is rarely in the news because he isnt 
flashy or flamboyant. In fact, he would fit in better at an accounting fir|n 
than on an NBA court.
However, he is quietly putting together a great season to cap off his career. 
Most notably, he has only missed 9 out of 174 free throw attempts this year, 
for a 94.8% success rate. The all time record is 95.8%, held by Calvin 
Murphy. Hornacek would have to hit 42 in a row to break the mark, arid 
while he is definitely capable (he made 67 straight earlier in the season), 
time is running short. The same can be said for his lengthy career not due 
to diminishing skills, but to a desire to spend more time with his family.
This is the best time of year to be an NBA fan, with the baseball games 
still being played in cold weather and the college season having ended. 
Most importantly, the playoffs are about to begin. Many interesting themes 
will be played out over the next couple months.
Can the Lakers seal the deal? Does anyone want to win the Eastern 
Conference? How will the young stars handle the pressure of the playoffs? 
It should make for some great basketball.
Exercise.
American Heart AssociationFighting Heart Disease and Stroke
The Concert Series at > 
Shadyside Presbyterian'Churchpresents !
Festival Evensong
Shadyside Chancel Choir 
and The Calvary Choir
singing music of Harold Friedell and Kenneth Leighton 
in the Anglican tradition
4:00 pm, Palm Sunday, 16 April 2000 
Admission free
For more information call 682-4300 
or visit www.shadvsidepres.org
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE 
128 N. Craig Street 
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
Now offering to NEW PATIENTS 
Complementary FIRST VISIT !!
Berman Chiropractic has been servicing the CMU and PITT communities for the past 17 years.
So, now is your chance to try Chiropractic and sec how we can help with your 
Health problems.
Please Call For An Appointment... today !!
687-1112
WE ACCEPT BC/BS, UPMC, AON SELECT AND 700 OTHER INSURANCES

---------------------------------------------------

IOTHE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 2000
MLB offers less-than-perfect opening, but season looks promising
MLB, from &snl 12 
r petes in on any sort of level is soccer. 
I I dont think a brief, two-game 
' series is going to spawn a new pro
fessional league.
Enough said about that. Now its 
' time to move on to some of the actu!. al games. The highly anticipated 
; debut of the power-heavy National 
1,-League Central was a decided dud. 
McGwire, Griffey, and Sosa com; bined for a whopping two home 
..runs over the entire first week, a 
 'total matched in one game by 
I Brewers outfielder Jeromy Burnitz, 
j, who already has five on the season. 
,A11 preseason predictions declared 
f this the most competitive division in \ the league, but no one expected the 
' Pirates and Brewers to be in the mix, 
' too.
For the first time in a long time, 
every team in the division has a 
shot at the playoffs.
On to the American League, 
where the Indians got off to an 
inauspicious debut, dropping two of 
three to the rejuvenated Orioles 
before the offense woke up and 
spanked Tampa Bay 145. Dont 
worry, Im not going to give you a 
game-by-game description of
Clevelands season, but there are a 
couple points that made the week 
worthy of mention.
Center fielder Kenny Lofton, 
scheduled to return to the 
Clevenland lineup after the All-Star 
break because of off-season rotator 
cuff surgery, was in the opening day 
line-up. Im no doctor, but thats a 
impressive recovery.
taran@dn edw.nc@wmu
Sessions
Courses, Workshops, Seminars, 
Study Abroad
Transferable Credits
Accelerated Sessions
Start Dates: May through July
Register by fax, phone, mail or 
in person
Call 1.800.283.3853 for our 
complete Summer 2000 
Information/Application 
Package,ss
rpUQUESNE
Coalitnaks
Pittsburgh, PA u2DtD 
www.duq.edu 
e-mail: summer@duq.edu
Also, new manager Charlie 
Manuel has quickly proved to be an 
excellent players manager. During 
the Orioles series, Manuel got him
self ejected in the final two games
with American league umpires and 
National League umpires with their 
own set definitions of the strike 
zone. We finally have a unified, 
mixed group of umpires that might
We no longer have to deal with American 
League umpires and National League 
umpires with their own set definitions of 
the strike zone.
for arguing with the umpires. If 
thats not sticking up for your play
ers, I dont know what is.
Speaking of umpires, I absolutely 
love the new Major League umpire 
system. We no longer have to deal
be able to give some consistency to 
the calls for once.
Im also encouraged by the return 
of the high strike. I dont want to 
jinx it after just one week, but if the 
umpires continue to call the strike
zone to the letters as its actually 
defined, maybe pitchers will have a 
chance to keep some balls in the 
park.
Which brings me to April 7, 
2000, a day that will live in infamy 
in the minds of baseball fans every
where and in the nightmares of the 
purists.
In only 15 scheduled Major 
League games, the 30 teams 
involved combined for a total of 57 
home runs. For those of you non
technical majors who havent 
already figured it out in your head, 
thats 3.8 homers per game.
Paging Mr. Selig: how about giv
ing your pitchers a little help here? 
At least raise the mound up some 
and give them a fighting chance. If 
the current trend doesnt change,
there are going to be a lot more 
players making runs at 70 dingers 
in a season.
The offensive explosion aside, it 
was a great week of baseball that 
promises an incredible season to 
come. Though its far too early to 
say for sure, there could be some 
intense pennant races come 
September, though it seems more 
likely that the small-market teams 
will once again fall off the pace and 
be left out of the race by July^or 
August.
Matt Brun is a sophomore E'CE major who is very impressed by the smooth segues in this article. However, he is disappointed that'he couldnt work the Tokyo portiori-'in better.
DARKROOM
wsruc C9Im Ll2& e9m 
uLl hIcC tsmr1as2 clsc9rW 
&mstu1tl C9Im 4lal29&1rn cR122c 
sr4 isRl c9il tscL 491rn 1ud
TARTAN ?s r 4 mlw
POST MODERN MAS.
The five colleges which make up the 
London Institute - Camberwell, Central Saint Martins, Chelsea, 
London College of Fashion and London College of Printing 
- offer the worlds widest range of courses in art, design and 
communications. Their MA course programme is second to non^.
It includes book arts, conservation, communication design, 
design studies, fashion, film, fine art, graphics, industrial design,! 
media, multimedia, scenography and textiles.
Interested? To find out more contact Rachel Hudson,
65 Davies Street, London W1Y 2DA, United Kingdom. 
Telephone: +44 20 7514 6130 Fax: +44 20 7514 6131 
e-mail: marcom@linst.ac.uk web site: www.linst.ac.uk
THE LONDON INSTITUTE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10. 2000il
classified
p!xpxVN $xN5NvxN7pg!6p 6AgqxvA6RETIREMENTINSURANCET!p!5M $!NF6
Whu is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage.
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for 
good reasons:
 Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds
 Solid performance and exceptional personal service
 Strong commitment to low expenses
 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more 
than 80 years,TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for 
and enjoysuccessful retirements.
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go 
with the leader:TIAA-CREF.
THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE
Proven Performance
Low Expenses
Highly Rated
Quality Service
Trusted Name
Ensuring the future 
far thu2e who shape it.
 According to DALBAR. Inc a financial services research firm. In its most recent study, 1997 Oefmed Contribution excellence fatings.HAA-CREF was voted number one in partici
pant satisfaction.TIAA-CREF Individual and instituiional Services, Inc distributes CREF certificates and interests in theHAA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investors 
Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TlAA and TIAA-CREF Ufe Insurance Co. Issue insurance 
and annuities. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FS8 provides trust services. Investment products an not FCMC insured may losa value and we not bank guaranteed. 
For more complete Information on our securities products, including charges and expenses,call 1 800 B42-2776, ext.5509. for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you 
invest or send money. C 2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00.
042-2776
w w w.
:tiaa-cref.org
Travel
BE FLEXIBLE ... SAVE SSS
Europe $169 (o/w + taxes)
CHEAP FARES WORLDWIDE!! 
Mexico/Caribbean $199 (r/t + taxes) 
Call: 1-800-326-2009 
vwvvv. 4 cheapair. com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America 
$229 r.t. Europe $169 o.w. Other world 
wide destinations cheap. ONLY TERROR
ISTS GET YOU'THERE CHEAPER! Book 
tickets on line www.airtech.com. or 212- 
219-7000.
For Sale
FLOWERS for romance, formais, platonic, birthday, get well and more ... ALEX's 
FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. 
a lexs flowers, com/delivery
For Rent - North Oakland. Fabulous 1 
6c 2 BR apartments. Luxury Building, 
Great Location. MUST SEE!! Call 683- 
8683.
Shadyside Apartment available in 
August. Newly remodeled. 3 or 4 bed
room, 2 baths, $1200 / mo. All utilities 
included. Call 681-5955.
Shadyside/Beautiful two and three 
bedroom apartments, two blocks from 
Walnut Street, carpeting, fully equipped 
kitchens, security, laundry, log burning 
fireplace, central a/c, deck. Available mid 
August. Rent $750.00 to $1100.00 plus 
utilities. 461 5837.
Opportunities
Artist Gallerist P/T - Art Gallery relocat
ing to Shadyside will display and sell pri
marily works on paper from the 1970's 
to the present. Seeks sales oriented 
docent familiar with contemporary fine 
art. Knowledge of print making tech
niques and of art history a plus. 
Responsibilities include client sales and 
education, handling and hanging of art 
exhibitions. 13-30 hrs/wk, Wednesday 
thru Saturday, possibly Sunday, and by 
appointment. Letter, resume, references 
in c/o: Michael Berger Gallery, 401 
Bingham St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203.
CMU seeks qualified undergraduate 
students for summer research posi
tions in the sciences (June 5 to August 
11). Positions are available in the fol
lowing areas: Biological Sciences, 
Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences,
Physics, and Supercomputing. In addi
tion, a limited number of grading or 
recitation positions may be available to 
qualified individuals in Mathematical 
Sciences. Students must be enrolled in a 
two or four-year university/college degree 
program. Compensation is based on 
experience and the availability of funding. 
Generally, compensation will range from 
minimum wage to $8 per hour.
Interested individuals should submit a let
ter of application specifying research 
interests, applicable experience, and tran
script to: Summer Research Experience 
for Undergraduates, Office of the Dean, 
Mellon College of Science, CMU, 4400 
Fifth Ave, Box B( Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Customer Support Center Contact for
an active E-commerce website. Handle 
customer questions and issues. Respond 
with follow-up either via phone or Email. 
Manage marketing promotions for web 
shoppers. Run a scanner to scan bulk 
documents. Administrative and other 
clerical activities expected. After first year, 
job position will grow providing candi
date works hard and grasps corporate 
environment. Looking for an outgiong 
and confident individual who enjoys 
working with people and has interest in 
the web industry. Should have the ability 
to handle people's questions with a pro
fessional touch and corporate accuracy. 
Needs to offer high English written/com
munication skills. Must have the ability to 
learn new software packages and comput
er systems. Willing to work at least 1 
Saturday/mo. www.micronexx.com Fax 
resume and brief cover letter to: 322- 
6768
Micronexx Corporation seeks an experi
enced Internet Systems developer familiar 
with C, SQL, CGI, Java, JavaScript and 
Solaris network administration. Successful 
candidate will be key player in small, fast 
moving E-Commerce developer. 
www.micrortexx.com Fax resume, salary 
requirements and brief cover letter to: 
322-6768.
HELP WANTED SS 1,000 SS Fundraiser 
No effort. Big Money!! No investment. 
Work with your friends! Get a free T-shirt 
too. Cal Sue at 800-808-7442 ext. 104
How does 800/week extra income 
sound to you? Amazingly profitable 
opportunity. Send self-addressed 
stamped envelope to: International 1 375 
Coney Island Ave.,.PMB 11427, Brooklyn, 
NY 11230.
Looking for Tutor in music composition 
in Shadyside. Also looking fortutor for 
Suzuki piano. $30/hr, 1-2 days/wk. Start
ASAP. Call 888-832-2401.
Seasonal Work: Shadyside Management 
Company needs full-time seasonal work
ers. Must be at least 18 years old.
Roofer's Helper, Exterior Painter, Exterior 
Pointing, Grass Cutter, college students 
OK. No experience necessary, but must 
be dependable and not <tfraid to work | 
hard. $6.50/hr. Mozart Management 
682-7003.
Student Organizations earn $1000- 
$2000 with the easy 
campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. No sales required. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call 
today! Contact campusfundraiser.com, 1- 
888-923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
Summer Childcare Needed F/T - car 
needed. Pine Township - Treesdale. Fun 
Neighborhood, pools, tennis. 2 great , 
kids, 9 and 10. 299-8872.
Summer Office Work: Shadyside 
Management Company needs full-time 1 
summer help to take applications, answer 
telephones, and do general office work. J 
Perfect for grad students and those enter
ing grad school. Degree required. 
$7.50/hr. Mozart Management 682-7003.
Work for an exciting College focused 
Internet company at your school! 
Looking for motivated individuals with 
strong leadership, entrepreneurial and 
business skills. Tech skills not required. 
Great experience, pay and options! Em^il 
resume and phone number to 
Recruiting@uconnections.com
WORK FROM HOME. 1,500 PT/4,000 FT 
www.IHBN.com code BA2535 1-888-453}- 
3734.
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$10.00/wk
21-50 words...........$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date 
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
Come-from-behind win over St. Vincent strengthens baseball team
hit, we came up with the hit. When 
we needed to come up with a defen
sive play, we came up with the 
defensive play.
The comeback began in the top of 
the seventh inning, with two base 
hits by Ramoon Poo and Tony Paez. 
With two runners on, a wild pitch 
advanced the runners to second and 
third. The next batter, Jon Mayes, 
doubled, then later scored on a 
passed ball. After seven, the score 
was 9-7.
In the very next inning, two walks 
followed a wild pitch put runners on 
second and third. A base hit by Mike 
Chester scored two runs, and 
Chester scored on a base hit by the 
next batter, Ramon Poo. The 
Tartans led, 10-9.
However, St. Vincent came right 
back in the bottom of the eighth 
with another run to knot the score at 
10-10. Then, in the bottom of the 
ninth, St. Vincent gave the Tartans a 
scare, putting men on first and third 
with no outs.
On the next sequence, first base
man Ryan Jackson made a good 
defensive play on a sacrifice bunt; 
which left two men in scoring posi
tion with one out. The next at-bat 
resulted in a groundball that was 
played well by shortstop Chester, 
who saved the game with a perfect 
throw to nail the runner at the plate. 
Chester then recorded the third out 
on another groundball.
In the top of the tenth, Paez led off 
with a walk, then advanced to second 
on a wild pitch, putting the Tartans in 
prime position for the go-ahead run. 
The next two batters struck out, but 
the inning wasnt finished. First-year 
second baseman Dan Bogard came to 
the plate, and blasted a double to 
right-center, scoring Paez and giving 
the Tartans a 11-10 lead.
I Was just thinking its a great situ
ation, and Ive got the chance to win 
the game for the team, said Bogard. 
We got the run we needed, and we 
were just looking to hold them to no 
runs the next half-inning.
And thats exactly what the 
Tartans did. In the bottom of the 
tenth, Paez helped close out the 
game on the mound, and fittingly,
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Junior Ramon Poo drives some fly balls to players during the baseball teams practice. Poo had the base hit which 
started the Tartans rally against St. Vincent on Sunday, April 2. The team plays Butler College today.
Bogard (3-3, 2 BB, 1 HBP) made the 
last play of the game, throwing out 
the final batter at first.
The game provided quite a bit of
drama for Greiser, who said, It was 
just a great team performance. 
Definitely exciting to watch, thats 
for sure. But no one felt the relief
and excitement more than the play
ers themselves.
Ive never seen a team enjoy run
ning their springs after the game
like they did, said Greiser.
This game also proved to be a 
large step in the development of the 
squad. I think we became a team
on Sunday against St. Vincent, said 
Greiser. The rest of the seas6n 
were going to be playing with a iot 
of confidence. I think were goinglto 
win our share of games.
Most important, however, is the 
way the players work together to 
produce results.
Its completely a team effort, 
said Bogard. There were a lot of lit
tle things during the course of the 
game that let us win in the end ... 
especially the team attitude. We 
never gave up.
Added Greiser, You could just go 
all the way around and hand out 
game balls to all the players ... just 
an all-around great effort by all ;of 
them.
"When we had to come up with the hit, 
we came up with the hit. When we need
ed to come up with a defensive play, we 
came up with the defensive play."
 Coach Rich Greiser
many more games sitting down.
They rallied in the seventh and 
eighth innings, finished nine 
innings tied at 10-10, and then 
finally pulled out the 11-10 victory 
in the tenth inning. The win put the 
teams record at 2-4, and the teams 
next game is scheduled for this 
afternoon at Butler College.
Coach Rich Greiser praised the 
team for its resiliency, saying that 
when we had to come up with the
oiydii r\djjidi!/riiuiu cuuui
Senior Justin Peroli participates in a fielding drill during practice. Peroli was 
an important player in the Tartans victory over St. Vincent two Sundays ago.
by Christopher ChungSports Editor
Unfazed by the past several 
weeks failures, the club baseball 
team kept its blinders on and con
tinued its charge towards a winning 
record. Last Sunday, trailing 9-4 in 
the final innings of a game at St. 
Vincent, the Tartans showed that 
they dont intend on losing too

---------------------------------------------------

Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski X8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
X8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli x2: 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea Nellis 
X2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Monday, April 10  Floor hockey 
playoffs begin.
Thursday, April 13  Fencing, 
Kickball, and Ulimate Frisbee
rosters due by 4:30 pm in IM 
Office.
Wednesday, April 19  IM Board 
Meeting, 1 pm in Gym 
Conference Room 
Thursday, April 20  IM Swim 
Meet, 4:30 pm at UC Pool 
Thursday, April 27  IM Track 
Meet, 6:30 pm at Gesling 
Stadium
Saturday, May 6  Kickball and 
Ultimate Frisbee Tournaments
Sports in Season
Floor Hockey  Playoffs start 
tonight and will finish next week.
Pinochle  Playoffs are out 
today. Play matches as scheduled 
and report results to the IM 
Office.
Indoor Soccer, Softball, Co-Rec 
Softball  Games are being 
played at the Stadium and in 
Skibo Gym.
Squash, Call Pool, Table Tennis, 
and Euchre  Matches are 
underway. Please play matches as 
scheduled and report scores to 
the IM Office.
Sports Completed
Foul Shooting 
Team  PiKA A
Individual  Jake Williams 
(SAE), 91
Womens Team  Hoopers 
Womens Individual  Samantha 
Majernik (Hoopers), 84
Three Point Shoot-Out 
Male  Reza Sodegghi 
Female  Andrea Nellis
Badminton 
Majors  BM2000 
Minors  Masters of Na 
Women Only  Mayur MP
Note: All email rosters are due 24 hours prior to the posted date.
Sports
April IO, 2000THE TARTANPage 12
MLB starts 
promising
Weather doesnt stop Carnegie Mellon Invitational
new spring
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
The stadium in Tokyo is certainly 
a first-class facility and Im sure the 
fans were as excited as any bleach
er bums back in Chicago, but what 
about those Cubs fans that missed 
out on their teams home opener. 
For Mets fans, the series was just 
another road trip, except, of 
course, that no one in the states 
could watch or listen to the games 
live since Tokyo is a gazillion time 
zones away from New York or 
Chicago. Cubs fans, however, miss 
out on two regularly scheduled 
home games, and thats just not 
fair.
The overseas opener was an inter
esting experiment with decidedly 
mixed results. Lots of fans hated it, 
but owners loved it. Most impor
tantly, commissioner Bud Selig liked 
it, so the experiment continues next 
season, in Italy of all places.
I can see going to a place like 
Japan, where baseball has caught 
on quite well, but Italy? Last time I 
checked, the only sport Italy comSee MLB, page 10
all photos by Matthew Trentacoste/Junior Photo Staff
Carnegie Mellon runners competed well In the CMU Invitational last Saturday, even in the rain and 
cold temperatures that forced the cancellation of two events.
by Christopher ChungSports Editor
The cold and rain that blanketed Pittsburgh 
last Saturday may have made the day a little 
dreary, but it didnt prevent this years 
Carnegie Mellon Invitational track and field 
meet from being held.
Even though the conditions were less than 
favorable  coach Dario Donatelli called 
them horrendous  only the hammer and 
pole vault events were cancelled for fear of 
danger, and a handful of Carnegie Mellon 
athletes won or placed well in their respective 
events.
On the womens side, Andrea Byrnes won 
the 1500-meter, Bridget Szczpinksi won the 
javelin throw, and Amy Graveline was second 
in the 800-meter run. Mark Plesko placed
second in the 800-meter and Mike Slowik 
placed second in the 1500-meters for the 
mens side.
The times werent good, said Donatelli. 
At times the rain was not coming down, it 
was coming sideways.
One of the more impressive performances 
of the day was given by Scott Jubeck, who 
won the discus throw with a distance of 133 
feet, a good throw' considering the weather 
conditions.
Later this week, the track team will travel to 
Grove City for a meet against Grove City and 
Allegheny Colleges.
According to Donatelli, the Tartans are pre
pared to take, on the challenges that await 
them.
Were really looking forward to running at 
Grove City, said Donatelli.  We think the 
team is ready to perform well.
Recent tournament highlights presence of cricket on campus
What a week. I honestly cant 
think of another opening week with 
as many subplots, interesting stories 
to follow, and just plain craziness as 
we were treated to last week.
Technically, I guess opening 
week was a week and a half ago, 
but I have a hard time counting the 
Cubs-Mets series in Japan as open
ing day.
Dont get me wrong, its great that 
were spreading the wealth of our 
major league talent to fans in other 
baseball-loving-countries, but regu
lar season games are not the way to 
do it. Exhibition games are fine, a 
true World Series would be intrigu
ing, but season games that count in 
the Major League standings should 
be played in Major League ball
parks.
The overseas open
er was an interest
ing experiment 
with decidedly 
mixed results. Lots 
of fans hated it, but 
owners loved it.
by Ish HarshawatEditor-in-Chief
Two weekends ago students 
might have wandered by Gesling 
Stadium and seen students playing 
something that resembled baseball. 
Upon closer inspection, they would 
have found some major differences. 
The bat was flatter, the ball was dif
ferent, the pitcher didnt quite
pitch, and the catcher was guard
ing strange little sticks.
This wasnt baseball, this was 
cricket; a sport played and adored by 
millions outside of this continent.
Shriram Vijaykumar, a sopho
more information and decision sys
tems major, had bounced around 
the idea of an actual tournament for 
some time.
The interest in cricket is very 
apparent here, said Vijaykumar.
You will find 20 students playing 
on a nice day on the Mall. 
According to Vijaykumar, there are 
about four large groups of students 
that play the game on a regular 
basis and the games tend to be very 
competitive. Its like playing a pick
up game of basketball, he said.
Cricket is a game mostly played in 
Britain and former British colonies. 
At CMU, the majority of students 
interested in the game hail from the
South Asian subcontinent. 
Vijaykumar, an officer of Mayur, 
CMU's South Asian student organi
zation, decided to sponsor the tour
nament to cater to South Asian stu
dents interests. Some students from 
Australia, Barbados, and Britain 
joined in on the tournament as well. 
For many, cricket is a way of life in 
their countries.
No one in America really knows 
about it. [At home] you have to play 
cricket. Youre born with it, said 
Guarav Bhatia, a first-year electrical 
and computer engineering student 
from India, who played on the second-place team, Rho Beta Rho.
The basic idea of cricket is simple. 
The team that scores more runs 
wins. There are djfferent innings in 
which a team either fields or bats. 
Unlike baseball, however, the game 
usually takes longer because a strik
er can continue scoring runs until 
he is out (which can happen in ten 
different ways).
Cricket is a game of skill. It 
requires a lot of timing. Its not just 
about power like baseball, said 
Vijaykumar.
One of the most highly skilled 
practices in cricket is the practice of 
bowling the ball, which is similar to 
pitching. A bowler makes a starting 
run and throws the ball onto the 
ground, trying to make it is as hard 
as possible for the striker to hit the 
ball. The ball can reach speeds of up 
to 90 miles per hour, and because it 
hits the ground, the bowler can use
a large amount of spin. Sometimes 
the ball can spin almost 90 degrees 
in another direction.
Normally a cricket ball is hard, 
and some players must wear 
padding. In the tournament, howev
er, the teams played with a taped up 
tennis ball. The event was spread 
over Saturday and Sunday, and was 
tense and competitive.
Each match took an hour, a highly 
abbreviated form of professional 
matches, which usually last for sev
eral days. Eight teams, split into two 
draws of four, competed in a super 
knockout tournament, in which the 
number one team from each draw 
advanced to the finals, while the 
number two teams battled for third 
place.
The teams that played all had dif
ferent associations. One team con
sisted of engineering students, while 
others were composed of entirely 
graduate students. The final saw an 
interesting match up between Rho 
Beta Rho, a team entirely made up of 
first-year students, and Engineering 
1, which was made up of all gradu
ate students.
In the end the graduate students 
prevailed, with a final score of 101 
to 79 runs. Bhatia wasnt disap
pointed, however.
We played very well as a team. I 
didn't expect that we would reach as 
far, he said.
Notable players included Abhiroop 
Gandhi, a masters student, with the 
GSIA A team. He was named best
batter after scoring 74 runs out of his 
teams total of 101 to give GSIA A a 
third place standing. Amit Itagi, a 
member of the Engineering 1 team, 
was named best fielder of the match, 
helping his Engineering team win 
the top position.
The days events were exciting. In 
one of the draws, all teams only won 
one match each and the winners 
had to be decided by run rate. The 
run rate is computed using a formu
la that boils down to subtracting the 
runs scored against team from the 
runs it scored. It was a funny situa
tion. On the last day people were 
out there with their calculators, 
said Vijaykumar. People were pret
ty nervous.
ijaykumar has future, plans for 
cricket at CMU. He is currently try
ing to organize a summer league for 
the students who will stay back at 
school in the upcoming months. 
There was a lot of interest in the 
tournament from University of 
Pittsburgh and Duquesne students 
as well. As a result, next fall 
Vijaykumar hopes CMU can host a 
larger tournament with those stu
dents invited as well.
Eventually, there might even be 
an intramural league set up through 
the IM office. Until then, those pass
ing by shouldnt be surprised when 
they see a group of 20 students out
side on the mall playing a game that 
may seem foreign to this country, 
but is dear to the hearts of many stu
dents at CMU.

---------------------------------------------------

by COMPUBOOKIE
(Editors Note: Compubookie is an anonymous commentator who predicts Sweepstakes winners annually. The Tartan Editorial Board has no knowledge of his or her identity. The opinions expressed here should not be confused with those of the Tartan Editorial Board.)
Women ' s Predictions
1. Spirit A
2. PiKAA 
3.SDCA
4. Fringe A
5. Sig Nu A
6. Beta A
Mens Predictions
1. PiKAA
2. Spirit A
3. Fringe A
4. Phi Kap A
5. Sig Nu A
6. SDC A
7. PiKA B
8. Beta A
9. Spirit B
10. Pioneers A
Beta
Maybe youll catch a brake this year.
CIA
So what does the bottom of the barrel look 
like?
DTD
April 14th, 7am. Set your alarm.
Fringe
Whats the number for 911? (Sponsored by 
UPMC)
KDR
Thank God for DTD.
Phi Kap
If only booths could roll.
Pioneers
Lewis and Clark would be ashamed.
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
Every year as Spring Carnival 
approaches, the Morewood 
Gardens parking lot is trans
formed into a fantasy land meant 
to depict the varied interpreta
tions of that years Carnival 
theme. As this years theme is 
Around the World, the booths 
constructed by many campus 
organizations will represent areas 
as disparate as New Orleans and
Arts Living
10 April 2000THE TARTANPage Li
Spring Carnival takes a trip Around the World
by Andy FrancisSenior Staffwriter
How far can you get in a weekend? 
is the tagline for Spring Carnival 2000, 
and, judging by the list of events taking 
place, a fun-loving CMU student will be 
able to go pretty far. This years 
Carnival theme is Around the World, 
featuring all the old favorites like 
Booth, Buggy, and the midway, as well 
as plenty of musical and comedic enter
tainment.
Provided the weather cooperates bet
ter than last year, the marquee Carnival 
events of Booth and Buggy should 
make for some interesting competition. 
Pi Kappa Alpha will attempt to repeat as 
champions in both the womens and 
mens divisions of Sweepstakes, 
although they will face some tough foes 
in Spirit and SDC, among others.
Booth, although a little less fastpaced than Buggy, should also be pret
ty interesting. Past themes like Myths 
and Legends and Childrens
Literature gave organizations a lot of
creative leeway, including Delta 
Upsilons remarkable first place booths 
Wheres Waldo? and Santas 
Workshop. The Around the World 
theme has students designing booths 
representing all parts of the globe, from 
Thailand (SIAM) to Tibet (DTD).
In addition, Around the World will 
have more side-stage entertainment 
than in years past, notes Carnival advi
sor Denise Fazio. Indeed, the festivities 
include no fewer than seven bands this 
weekend. Ranging from Orquesta 
Tropical to local heroes the Buzz Poets
to jam band Strangefolk, theres certain 
to be a band for every Carnival 
attendee. Those looking for a quieter 
way to enjoy Carnival can check out 
comedians Eddie Ifft and Gary 
Greenberg on the main stage or take in 
one of Scotch n Sodas four produc
tions of the musical Once Upon a 
Mattress.
Although past Carnivals have gener
ally had the same events as Around the 
World, some aspects have certainly 
evolved over time. Advances in design 
have lowered buggy times over the
years, while, as Dean of Student Affairs 
and Carnival veteran Michael Murphy 
recalls, the sophistication of some of 
the games has grown considerably, as 
has some of the building materials and 
artistry.
So, in less than a week, Spring 
Carnival 2000 will be upon us. The 
Around the World committee has put 
together quite a lot of activities for the 
weekend. With all thats taking place, 
students might be hard-pressed to find 
time to party, but I think theyll manage 
to work it in.
Compubookie offers predictions, 
insight into Sweepstakes competition
Booths display unique time periods, 
locations from all around the world
See COMPUBOOKIE, page L2
Transylvania. The different booths 
span not only large geographical 
areas, but changing time periods 
as well. Everything from the his
torically inspired Wild Wild 
West and Ancient Mayan booths, 
to structures representing modern 
locations like Cape Canaveral and 
even our own Pittsburgh, will be 
presented during the Carnival cel
ebration. Whether moved-on or 
started from scratch on the lot, the 
booths are as varied and unique as 
the organizations who are respon
sible for building them.
Perhaps even more exciting 
than seeing the exotic locations 
represented in this years booths 
is witnessing the friendly compe
tition between each of the organi
zations. The competition for 
booth is broken down into three 
categories: Fraternities,
Sororities, and Independents. 
These categories were created 
because, typically, fraternities 
have the greatest supply of finan
cial and human resources. Both
See BOOTHS, page L2
All art by Gabriel Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

CLO SEASON SPONSORS PNC AmericanAirlmes'
Also new at the O:
DELIVERY
V7 ^ 
on DineEx and Campus Funds and 
Department Charges*
Pizza, Wings, Chicken 
Sandwiches, Spaghetti 
Dinners, and more. 
Hot to mention Hot Dogs, 
French Tries, Burgers, 
and Steak Hoagies.
PHONE 687-8327
mipirtvkaog henafvp dcivkit
A Special Offer for Students Only!
Summer Musicals 2000 at the Benedum
Pittsburgh CLO Student Coupons zr.
6 Tickets for $48!
Student Coupon Order Form  Mail Order Only!*
why not chango the world?**
Rensselaer
http://laliyschooi.rpi.edu 518.276.6586
THELALLY
SCHOOL
AT RENSSELAER
Tsrsnlilru
sr4 ultLr929nCd
5&&21tsu19r
sr4 1rr9asu19rd
Address
City ___1________________________;________________________________State_______Zip ________
Phone#____________________________________School__________________________________________
Enclose a copy of your student ID or your last report card and a $48 check or money order made 
payable to the Pittsburgh CLO. Mail to: Pittsburgh CLO-Student Coupon, The Benedum Center,
719 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222. For additional information call, (412) 281-2822.
Mail order only, no walk-ins please.
You may redeem your vouchers individually or in any combination at the Benedum Center Box Office or by mail beginning April 28th, 2000 
for the best seats available in the Second Her. Applicable for the six show's, this represents a savings of up to S90. Limit One Set of Vouchers 
? vouchers July 2. Not good with any other discount or promohon.
In addition to our Dogs, Burgers, Fries, and Subs, try our
HEW MENU ITEMS:
Baked Potatoes 
Onion Rings 
Reubens 
Shrimp Basket 
Fish Sandwich 
Fresh Salads 
Jalapeno Beef 
Portabella Burgers
Wing Dings 
Chicken Clubs 
Corned Beef Sandwich 
Chicken Parmesan Sandwich 
Cheese Sticks 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Pastrami Sandwiches 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
5pm - 2am Daily
* $8.00 minimum
r

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10. 2000L3
Bookie picks PiKA men, Spirit women
vVTb!oVVkxAW em9i &snl Mx
PiKA
Buggy. Buggy. Buggy. Buggy.
Id write something else, but I 
dont think youd understand.
SAE
Winnings not everything. Lucky 
you.
SDC
At least you have your health.
Sig Ep
The little engine that cant.
Sig Nu
At least if your buggies break, 
youve got plenty of tools.
Spirit
Are you at least gonna have an 
alumni team?
Well, after wrapping up the mil
lennium last year, there are a few 
surprises this year in Buggy. I 
always like surprises. Ive decided 
to add another three womens 
teams to my predictions, and so Ill 
start from there.
In 6th place, we find Beta A. 
With their enormous buggies-, any
one is going to find it difficult to get 
them up a hill. Their women will be 
no exception. Beating them out 
should be Sig Nu A. Formerly 
known as Kappa Alpha Theta, 
theyve recruited a few more 
women here and there and with 
the strength of their buggies, they 
should make a good showing.
Next is Fringe A in 4th. Ill talk 
more about them later, but with 
the queen of hill one returning 
and some decent buggies, they 
may be a dark horse to watch. 
SDC will narrowly edge them out 
for 3rd, but it should be close. 
SDC has extremely consistent 
buggies and with such a large tal
ent pool to draw from, they can 
pull together a decent time.
Theres going to be a gap 
between second and third place. 
PiKA and Spirit always seem to 
distance themselves from the rest 
of the competition, and this year 
should be no exception. I have to 
give the edge to Spirit though.
PiKA is riding high from their 
two previous victories, and may 
be a little too confident. They 
have the better buggy, but Spirits 
pushers will eliminate any advan
tage the buggy gives them.
Mens races are always full of 
surprises, and last year was no 
exception. PiKA B came out of 
nowhere to take 3rd, Phi Kap 
spun off Hill 2 of all places, and 
Sig Nu managed to disqualify 
themselves. So this year, Ifri not 
going to plan on any of this stuff 
happening in my predictions. 
Here we go.
In 10th is Pioneers A. 5th last 
year wasnt too bad, except they 
sort of happened into it by 
default. But they always manage 
to come through, and theres 
something to be said for consis
tency. In 9th is Spirit B, which Ill 
get to a little later, but they wont 
be as good as last year, trust me.
Edging them out should be 
Beta A. They havent shown much 
effort this year, and I wouldnt 
expect to see a whole lot on race 
day. Hopefully theyll pass the 
drop test this time.
PiKA B always upsets my pre
dictions, but not this year. Im 
calling last year a fluke. There 
are too many good teams out 
there for a bunch of second 
stringers to get any better than 
seventh place. SDC should be 
able to hold off PiKA B and finish 
strong. Their pushers have lost a 
few steps, and their herd of 
active pushers seems to have 
thinned out. Dont count on a 
whole lot of depth from SDCs 
men this year.
Sig Nu consistently has great 
buggies. Everyone knows I think 
that. However, they still dont 
seem to have the pushers to 
match the buggies. At some point 
theyll pull it all together, but its 
sure not this year. Fifth place 
almost by default. Phi Kap is 
coming off some problems, 
including a spin last year and 
another spin a few weeks ago. 
Their morale* cannot be running
high, and Im being generous giv
ing them 4th. They roll well, and 
have a decent push team, but 
they cant seem to pull it togeth
er. Sound familiar?
Fringe has really impressed me 
this year and proved that the 
progress they made last year was 
for real. With two new buggies 
this year in a modified Sig Nu 
style, they look to be rolling fast. 
They also seem to have recruited 
some great pushers as well. Last 
year Lady Luck was unkind to 
them, and I think this may be the 
year they make up for it. Theyve 
made great strides all around. 
The next few years will be key for 
them, and it will be interesting to 
see if they can really turn into a 
consistent contender or if theyre 
a flash in the pan.
Spirit, on the other hand, 
seems to be in trouble. With the 
loss of most of their A team push
ers, they arent going to post a 
time like last years.' In fact, 
theyve been making a poor 
showing at freerolls all year. 
Unless theyve got a secret train
ing site, Spirit is in trouble. But 
theyve got good buggies and 
should be able to pull together a 
team good enough to hold back 
Fringe. Experience does count in 
Buggy.
And experience should pay off 
for last years winners, PiKA A. 
These guys threw me last year 
when they managed to pull out a 
win by a little over a second. Now 
I think they can do it again. 
Theyve definitely got the bug
gies, and their dedication can 
only be described as fanatical. 
Barring any unforeseen circum
stances, or if their typically slow 
pushers get even slower, they 
should be able to take home a 
win to start the millennium.
So thats it. Feel free to send 
me comments atcompubookie@idontcare.com. 
Seriously, though, if you havent 
seen the races, set your alarm 
(like DTD), and come check it 
out. Until next year...
Booth construction rewards students
BOOTHS, from page LI 
sororities and independents general
ly possess significantly less of both 
important resources.
Due to these constraints, the 
groups do not officially compete 
with each other. Yet there is still a 
kind of informal rivalry among all 
the participants.
Its fun, when our project is fin
ished, we can compare it [with the 
Greek-built booths], said James 
Casazza, the Pioneers co-booth 
chair. I think that size wise, or the 
amount of money that was spent on 
it might not compare, but the quality 
of the group, the amount of work 
that went into it is right on par.
However, with 10 fraternities, five 
sororities and 15 independents 
building booths this year, there is 
enough competition within each 
group to keep every organization 
busy. Additionally, even within each 
group there can sometimes be subrivalries as well.
Benny Moi, the booth chair for the 
Taiwanese Student Association, said 
that he feels a small degree of compe
tition with independent 
groups like Fringe or 
Pioneers. But, said the 
first-year business major, I 
feel like we are more in com
petition with other cultural 
groups because we have the 
same amount of people and 
the same kind of budget.
All this competition neces
sitates great effort from 
already overworked stu
dents. Even when the entire 
organization is involved, 
simply moving the booth 
onto the lot can be time con
suming.
We had the entire house out here 
moving everything on, getting all the 
walls up and everything ... for about 
two and half hours, reported Jim 
Johnston, a junior in ECE and the co
booth chair for Sigma Tau Gamma.
Booth participants have further been 
hindered by the near-constant cold and 
the rain that has been falling periodi
cally since last Fridays move-on.
We are behind schedule because 
of the pouring rain, said senior busi
ness major Christina Nargi, co-booth 
chair for Kappa Alpha Theta. 
Because we cant -use our corded 
power tools when its raining... .It has
nt ruined anyones spirits but it 
makes it a lot harder to get anything 
done and get people out here to get 
cracking.
But even though building booths 
requires a lot of energy and 
endurance in the face of harsh 
weather conditions, many partici
pants see it as a way to take a break 
from all of their class responsibilities 
and spend quality time with their 
friends during the end of school.
Its fun. I really enjoy spending 
time with my brothers and building 
this booth, said junior psychology 
major Matt Malter-Cohen, the booth 
chair for Phi Kappa Theta.
While many organizations, such as 
Phi Kappa Theta, are guided in their 
efforts by their many years of previ
ous Booth involvement, for some 
groups this year marks their first 
foray into booth construction. For
Shaina McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
vT! cuI4lru t9rcumItuc s h99uL e9m vsmr1as2d pL1c Clsm:c 
vsmr1as2 uLlilW 5m9Ir4 uLl 9m24W elsuImlc U' h99uLcd
example, the Singapore Student 
Association (SSA) is involved in 
Booth this year for the first time in its 
four year history.
All of us out here are freshmen and 
sophomores, said SSAs booth chair,
Hanyong Lim. This is our first time 
doing any major construction work.
But through early planning, and by 
listening to the advice of SSA upperclassmen who had built booths with 
other organizations in years past, the 
association overcame the difficulties 
caused by their inexperience. Lim, a 
first-year chemical engineering 
major, reported that he was both 
happy with their progress and opti
mistic about the future of booth in 
the organization.
As freshmen we were quite enthu
siastic about it, he said. We decid
ed that it was important to build this 
booth for future SSAs to carry on.
Many other Booth chairs also 
claimed that Booth was extremely 
helpful in building a sense of fel
lowship within their organiza
tions.
It builds brotherhood, said 
Sigma Tau Gammas Johnston.
The same sentiment was felt by 
members of independent organiza
tions as well.
Its fun to get the sense of com
munity that everyone has when 
theyre working together on a pro
ject like this, said the Pioneers 
Casazza, a sophomore majoring in 
ECE and economics. I couldnt 
imagine being at CMU 
without being involved 
in Carnival. Its such a 
great time. You see then 
when everyones school 
spirit comes out.
For Emily Zajano, a 
senior biology major 
and Kappa Alpha 
Thetas co-booth chair, 
the merits of building 
booth go beyond pure 
community-building. 
She claims that build
ing has actually been 
an empowering experi
ence for the women in 
her sorority.
I think walking into Home Depot 
and throwing out these technical 
terms, people are going to be like, 
Wow. How do you know what that 
stuff is? said Zajano. Its kind of 
empowering in some ways to be 
able to get yourself on an even par 
that a lot of women dont usually 
get to experience.
Scotch n Soda prepares Carnival show
\ ~ * y - - f ..v, * 7 g ' " 7t:v,  7 x
. \ Hirr.'i .-L ~ ;
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
6uI4lruc hln1r i9a1rn uLl1m h99uLc 9alm u9 T9mlw994 &smR1rn 29u e9m vsmr1as2 lalruc usR1rn &2stl rl.u wllRlr4d
by Thaddeus BillmanStaff writer
Its almost Carnival time. Of 
course you know that means Buggy 
and Booth fun for all, but did also 
know that it means Scotch n Soda 
fun? Thats right, it is time for the 
annual Scotch n Soda Carnival 
production, and this years choice is 
a surefire winner, as they present 
the classical Once Upon a 
Mattress theatrical adaptation of 
the classical fairy tale The Princess 
and The Pea.
In case you are unfamiliar with the 
plot, it is basically as follows: In a 
small kingdom, a young Prince 
Dauntless is searching for a bride. 
His mother, Queen Aggravain, keeps
rejecting the candidates, while the 
village grows angry, for the law 
states no one may wed until the 
prince is wed.
Sir Harry sets out upon a great 
quest to find the price a bride. When 
he returns with Princess Winnifred, 
the fun begins. One outrageous dis
play after another ensues, ensuring 
that the Queen will not approve of 
Winnifred, but in the interest of 
fairness, she proposes a test. A tiny 
pea will be placed under a stack of 
ten mattresses. Any true queen 
would surely be able to detect the 
pea and so the stage is set. However, 
the Queen feels the test may still be 
too easy, and so holds a grand ball to 
wear Winnifred out.
Will she pass the test? Will there 
be a happy ending? Youll have to see
the play to find out.
Various subplots complicate the 
play. The king is under a curse that 
keeps him from talking until the 
hawk devours the mouse, while Lady 
Larken is pregnant and unmarried.
The play pokes fun at romantic 
and gender stereotypes, while pro
viding famous musical scores by 
Mary Rodgers. It promises to be a fun 
time for all in attendance.
The musical will be directed by 
Rebecca Ringdahl and stars Nikki 
McCrea as Princess Winnifred, Chris 
Anderson as in the role of Prince 
Dauntless, and Cris Peterson playing 
Queen Aggravain. The play will be 
performed on Thursday at 7 pm, 
Friday at 7 pm and Saturday at 4 and 
8 pm. Tickets are $5 with a CMU ID 
and $7 without.
IMMIGRATION LAW 
GREEN CARDS-EMPLOYMENT VISASPOSTGRADUATE RESEARCH EMPLOYMENT 
20 YEARS EXPERIENCE 
ATTORNEY S. SANFORD KANTZ 
724-658-2313
Attend the only 
American Bar Association 
approved Paralegal 
Program in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Duquesne University 
Ivtvpigvp 
Ronkakeki
 Post-bachelor's degree certificate program 
 General practice or specialty certificate options 
 An outstanding law library 
 Affordable tuition and housing 
 A placement program that works 
 Limited enrollment 
 Accelerated daytime program in summer 
 Part-time evening programs 
in fall, winter and spring 
Part-time evening program begins on April 10. 
Accelerated summer program begins on May 30.
For more information, 
please call 
("B#) U/GB"U 
or(8'') #8UGU8UINSDEStudIen
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
!r1almc1uC 9e b1uuchImnL rlIm9&cCtL929nC 
nm9I& cllRc cum9rn vDvOO sr4D9m Ssas 
&m9nmsiilm u9 4lal29& cusulG9eGuLlGsmu 
hms1r 1isn1rn u992cd b9c1u19rc 1ra92al Iclm 
1rulmestlW cusu1cu1ts2W 1isnl &m9tlcc1rn sr4 
cCculic &m9nmsii1rn 1r !r1. lra1m9rilrud
v9rustu AInlrl pclCu21r su ("B#) #"G_'_' 
uclCu21r?&1uudl4I
Want A Challenge?
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force 
Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned 
officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, 
complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
see the world. To discover how high___AIRJFORCE
www.airforce.com
a career in th Air Force can take 
you, cali 1-800-423-USAF, or visit 
our website at www.airforce.com
VISUALIZEYOUR FUTURE AS A CHIROPRACTIC PHYSICIAN
LOGAN OFFERS:
 bm9i1rlruW 9Iucusr41rn estI2uCd
 5 cum9rn ums41u19r 9e sts4li1t 
l.tl22lrtl sr4 cuI4lru cIttlccd
 T94lmr cusulG9eGuLlGsmu est121u1lcd
 $1rsrt1s2 s14 u9 s&&m9.1isul2C 
/'% 9e 9Im cuI4lrucd
 fsr4cG9r t21r1ts2 l.&lm1lrtlcd
M9nsr s2c9 9eelmc s od6d 1r fIisr 
o1929nC sr4 sr 5ttl2lmsul4 6t1lrtl 
bm9nmsi (56b)d
Prepare for an exciting career in health care.
1-800-533-9210http://www.logan.ed
1851 Schoettler Rd.  Chesterfield. MO 63017 
Phone: (314) 227-2100  FAX; (314) 207-2425 
loganadm@logan.edu
An Equal Opportunity Institution of Higher Education
LOSE 20 POUNDS 
IN TWO WEEKS!
Famous U.S. Womens' Alpine Ski Team Diet
During the non-snow offseason the US Womens' Alpine Ski 
Team members used the "Ski Team" diet to lose 20 pounds in two 
weeks. That's right - 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is 
chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado 
physician especially for the US Ski Team. Normal energy is 
maintained (very important) while reducing. You keep "full" - no 
starvation - because the diet is designed that way. It's a diet that is 
easy to follow whether you work, travel or stay at home. (For men 
too!)
This is, honestly, a fantastically succesful diet. If it weren't, 
the Us Womens' Alpine Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! 
Right? So, give yourself the same break the US Ski team gets. Lose 
weight the scientific, proven way. Even if you've tried all the other 
diets, you owe it to yourself to try the US Womens' Alpine Ski Team 
Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. 
Order today! Tear this out as a reminder.
Send only S8.95 - add . 50 cents RUSH service to: 
MIDWEST ASSOCIATES, 3318 S. Glenstone, Suite 308, Springfield, 
MO 65804. Don't order unless you expect to lose 20 pounds in two 
weeks! 3ecause that's what the Ski Tea Diet wiii do. ^ iggg

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 2000
f> 'U far...Passport photos, railpasses^SICs, 
hostcTSrds, airport transfere^Srjide: 
tptiii books and mowHBS
/Uau*^h4r smmsnfsua
. . has .0 i thfuh tae(aua4Lska (aua,,u snthfnra4
If you've got any extra capital lying around the house, grab it and come to the 
finals of the EnterPrize Business Plan Competition on Friday, April 14. Youll 
see the area's next generation of entrepreneurs whip out their PowerPoint slides 
and make their pitches to local capital providers, battling it out for $100,000 
in prize money. And pay attention. One of them could be your next boss.
The EnterPrize Business Plan Competition
Finalists' Presentations & Reception
Friday, April 14
Hilton Hotel, Downtown
2:15 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Free admission
To learn more, visit www.enterprizepgh.org or call 412-804-3060.
A
EnTERPRIZe
ORGANIZED BY: CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY, DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY, INNOVATION WORKS, MCKESSONHBOC AUTOMATED HEALTHCARE, 
MCKINSEY & COMPANY, PITTSBURGH TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL AND UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH.
SPONSORS: ADAMS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT; BIRCHMERE INVESTMENTS; THE BUHL FOUNDATION; THE HEINZ ENDOWMENTS; INNOVATION WORKS; 
MORGAN, LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP; R.K. MELLON FOUNDATION; SAFEGUARD SCIENTIFICS; TRIANGLE CAPITAL; VENTURE BANK @ PNC
Council
118 Meyran Ave.
Oakland 683-1881
Rome___________$486
Casablanca SSSt
IMfc SIA1E UNlVtUiIV OF NUW Jtffttv xRUTGERS k
Division of Summer Session191 College Ave.  New Brunswick, NJ 08901-854G 
web site: nttp.V/summersession.rutgers.edu
Spirits Enigma 2000 welcomes three decades of fashion and music
hC Lin TaoStaffwriter
The lights were dim, and all the audience could see 
were graceful shadows dashing across the stage. The 
shadows each picked a spot and settled. The lights 
came on, but the shadows remained motionless. The 
tension was thick, and suddenly a girl stood up, and 
turned towards the audience. She shot an angry 
glance, turned, and disappeared into the smoke behind 
her. Others soon followed, in the same fashion. The 
audience pondered, what is the Enigma?
On Saturday, about 20 models  most of whom were 
CMU students  all beaming with confidence, some 
with suggestive styles, others with more suggestive 
clothing (or a lack thereof,) strolled, floated, and 
charged down the catwalk. Enigma 2000 showcased 
the fashions which enrich our generations lives. 
Representative styles from the 70s, 80s, 90s, and final
ly the new millennium made their way into the presen
tation; the show was flawlessly choreographed and exe
cuted.
For weeks, the CMU organization Spirit had 
promised the campus a night of glamorous eye candy, 
which the final result succeeded at delivering. The 
fashion show presented the goods from such vendors as 
Selection Boutique, Leonardos Mens wear, Mens 
Warehouse, Victorias Secret, and Tommy Hilfiger.
Tiana Symmonds, the president of Spirit, explains 
that the group spent months in preparation for the 
show. The model selection started in February, and
eightmale and nine female models were picked for the 
show.
This is my third year getting involved in Enigma. In 
planning for this show, we tried to envision a program 
that will show off our schools diversity. We wanted to 
show that that even though we all came from different 
backgrounds and cultures, after alls said and done, 
were all the same. We work hard towards the same 
goals, we all struggle through obstacles, but were also 
all college kids, trying to have fun!, said Cindy Henry, 
a senior MCS student.
The models were more than happy to be part of the 
show.
I love the nice mix of diversity. You practice and 
practice, and the shows only for an hour, but its great!" 
said Gabriela Otero, a first-year H&SS student, who 
modeled the golden silk pajama set during the lingerie 
segment of the 90s line-up, and later appeared in the 
millennium presentation.
Ive never experienced something like this before, 
said Vincent Richardson, a sophomore music major. 
Its just something different which Ive always wanted 
to do. Richardson modeled bare-chested and dressed 
up for the show.
In the 70s segment, polyester apparel littered the 
walkway, finding its way into lime green halter tops, 
flaming pink dresses, yellow blazers, and of course, 
leisure suits.
We started the segment with the protesting poster of 
Free Mumia because a lot of people in the 70s fought 
for his case, said Maisha ONeal, a sophomore business 
major.
I was a model my freshman year, and I really enjoyed 
it, said senior psychology major Cheriss Revera. I like 
dressing up and confidently walking down there. This 
is my last year to participate in this show because Im 
graduating. I will really cherish this experience.
One aspect of this show was the fact that Spirit put 
considerable effort into the entertainment segment as 
well as the fashion segment. Among the performers 
was Sirbrittie Grant, a graduate student in the 
Information Networking Institute. Grant, in a mock 
caf scene, performed Erykah Badus Tyrone. I 
picked her because her songs are very honest, and her 
vocals are very expressive, remarked Grant.
Other performances included Aisha Rutherford, a 
frst-year CIT student, singing a song written by Faith 
Evans, and an interpretive dance to Janet Jacksons A 
Song About You by sophomore design major Eunice 
Baes group. The interpretive dance featured swift 
movements of what seemed to be only masks and 
gloves. The dancers actually used the black lights, 
white gloves, and masks to heighten the dances effect.
The Master of Ceremonies, Diondre Johnson, also 
performed a surprise number from his pending album, Keeping it Real, a song called I Love You. With lyrics 
like Ill beat you with my shoe, you know, I will 
too....cuz Im crazy, he drove the crowd wild with 
laughter.
The show, put together by the effort of special event 
coordinator Kellee Brownlee, was received with 
applause. Enigma 2000 left its audience with a better 
definition of the term from which the diverse show 
derived its name.
Musical premieres at Purnell
by Blake EngelPersonnel Manager
Stephen Sondheims A Little Night Music, although it bears the 
same title as Mozarts renowned 
piece, has more laughs 
and sexual tension 
than its musical coun
terpart. The produc
tion, put on last week 
by CMUs Drama 
Department and
directed by William 
Theisen, a New York 
freelance director, was 
well-attended and
impeccably performed.
A story of mis
matched couples, the 
show expertly uses 
humor and cynicism 
to tell its story. Desiree 
Armfeldt, played by
Country as the song is titled, at 
Desiree Armfeldts house. At this 
showdown of all showdowns, 
the women begin competing for 
each others men, and Egermans 
son, Henrik, admits to his love 
for his stepmother. Henrik, a
Cote DePablo, is the Courtesy of Joshua Franzos
object of desire for Justin Brill, Emily Tam, Arik Luck, and Cote Depablo in a 
both Count Carlscene from the drama deparments A Little Night Music. 
Magnus Malcolm
priest in training, is distraught 
over his sinful desires but even
tually succumbs to his desire.
The characters were fantasti
cally played; each one, from the 
main characters to the infre
quently appearing servants, 
added to the comic and romantic 
effects. Henrik constantly made 
his repressed emotions obvious 
through a furrowed brow and
(senior Matthew Bomer) and 
Frederik Egerman (senior Arik 
Luck). Both the men are mar
ried, Frederik to a virgin half his 
age. In the meantime, Charlotte 
Malcolm (senior Beth Crosby) 
has been aware of the two mens 
indiscretions and informs the 
naive Anne (senior Emily Tam).
Eventually the entourage 
agrees to a Weekend in the
timid movements. Desirees 
voice matched her characters 
seductive temperament. And her 
mother, Madame Armstedt, was 
so wonderfully cynical that she 
and the stories she told to 
Fredrika Armfeldt became one of 
the plays greatest 
strengths.
A Greek chorus 
makes periodic 
appearances and 
comments on the 
whole ordeal. Their 
presence, along 
with the setting in 
Sweden at the turn 
of the century, pro
vides for a diverse 
environment.
This is one of 
Stephen Sondheims 
more witty works 
and is a sheer plea
sure to watch. Hugh 
Wheeler, who wrote 
the script, weaved 
in tasteful cynicism 
and sarcasm 
throughout. Madame Armfeldt 
declares that to lose ones hus
band is one thing, but to lose ones 
teeth is a catastrophe!
The show was performed for a 
full house of grateful 
Pittsburghers and supportive 
students on Friday night. The 
Drama Department has once 
again pulled off a top-notch pro
duction.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO
April 18, 1950  Thin women 
would have an advantage at the 
Penny a Pound dance, which was 
sponsored by the sophomore honoraries Cwens and Scimitars. The 
admission price for the event was set 
to be one dollar plus a penny for 
each pound the woman weighed.. 
Those women who entered and won 
the lightest and heaviest woman 
contest would have their cost of 
admission refunded. The maximum 
admission price would be $2.00 and 
bald women would be admitted for 
free.
25 YEARS AGO
April 8, 1975  A new system of 
emergency telephones was sched
uled to be installed by the beginning 
of May. Ten new phones would be 
installed around campus and would 
have direct connections to Campus 
Security.
The phones would be clearly 
marked' and would connect to 
Security without the need to dial. 
That way, if a person was injured, all 
they would need to do is knock the 
phone off the hook to get Security to 
respond. While there were some 
concerns raised about vandalism or 
false alarms, Security felt that the 
need for this type of emergency 
device outweighed these risks.
10 YEARS AGO
April 3, 1990  Dr. Robert 
Mehrabian, dean of the college of 
Engineering at University of 
California at Santa Barbara (UCSB), 
was selected to be Carnegie Mellons 
seventh president. According to the 
presidential search committee, 
Mehrabian had a reputation for 
being an energetic builder and a 
dynamic leader. Among his accom
plishments were establishing UCSB 
as a reputable research school quick
er than anyone had expected, said 
John Fetkovich, chair of the Faculty 
Presidential Search Committee. 
Mehrabian would succeed Richard 
Cyert, who announced earlier the 
previous year that he planned to 
retire.
FIVE YEARS AGO
April 3, 1995  For the first time, 
the Carnival Committee decided to 
not open Carnival with WRCT. 
Instead, they chose to hire a profes
sional radio station, The Force 
106.7 FM, to open the festivities. 
While the station would not be 
broadcasting from the event, they 
would play music and give away 
promotional items to Carnival atten
dees.
Steve Auterman, the General 
Manager of WRCT, said the station 
was disappointed with the decision.
He said that the Carnival Committee 
did not make an attempt to contact 
them in advance of booking The 
Force.
ONE YEAR AGO
April 5, 1999  Carnegie
Mellons board of trustees approved 
a $1.725 million real estate pur
chase to buy the Universitys presi
dent a new house. The purchase, 
which consisted of $1.4 million for 
the house on Northumber-land 
Street and $300,000 for decorations 
and appliances, was the largest real 
estate transaction in Pittsburghs 
history. While there were more 
expensive houses in the city, this 
was the biggest sale, according to 
Don Hale, vice president of 
University Relations.
Hale said that the house was not 
to be considered a purchase for 
President Cohon, but rather a pur
chase for the University. He also 
said that the house would be used 
for fundraising, which is a large part 
of what the Universitys president 
does. Previously, Cohon lived in a 
condo which trustees felt was not 
suitable for the functions the presi
dent needed to perform at his resi
dence.
v9i&12l4 hC
6luL Tsr4l2
Tax
info,
toll-free.
Tax questions? Call TeleTax 
for recorded information 
on about 150 tax topics,
24 hours a day.
http://www.ustreas.gov
Its a great experience to stage a show where we can 
demonstrate to the baggers that people can, and do 
have a great time at CMU, said Asumini Kasule, a 
senior in materials science and engineering.
5 i94l2 41c&2sCc s c12R &s0sis clu em9i uLl /'c 21rnlm1l 
s&&sml2 uLsu wsc s &smu 9e 6&1m1u8c Ar1nis #'''d
JUNE DB-AUEL2T n
JULY uD-ALGLST IB
Three six-week sessions
A variety of 3, 4 and S week courses
Undergraduate/Graduate courses
Day, Evening and Saturday A.M.
classes availablephx O Deee IrGGlx IlRRahw EOAO:hCW awF:r*awC xlCaRAxOAahw kxhFl*rxlR Ow* ,hxGW k5hwl HLnDNsnDdL2S2- MrARa*l A5l LnD OxlO Fh*l FO:: udteeduT VUZYvVI hx udtttdcVU IUmmvVW hx ldGOa: ghrx xl1rlRA AhB ,FO:O:CC30Fxa-wIIxC-R*!
EhrxRlR O:Rh OPOa:O6:l OA pxll5h:* Eh:hwaO: EOGkrR VhrAl 9 IhrA5 Ow*9xhhf*O:l EhGGrwaAg Eh::lCl 0 awFxh,A

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
10 April 2000THE TARTANPage L6
University hosts its first nation-wide technology conference
T3, from page 1 
many network, such as a news 
. broadcast; a peer-to-peer network, 
such as an e-mail system, and an 
any-to-many network or "community," such as a bulletin board or chat
 service.
Saturdays events included addi
tional speakers, exhibitions and 
demonstrations by local companies 
and CMUs Robotics Club, and pan
els focusing on a variety of topics 
from the governments role in tech
nology to information security to 
identifying and commercializing 
the next big breakthrough in tech
nology. The exhibitions gave com
pany representatives the chance to 
share information and plans and 
also do a little recruiting on the side. 
In fact, according to Frank, one of 
the future plans for the conference 
is to hold it in the fall and make it a 
recruiting/technology conference 
to maximize the benefits attendees 
could get from it.
One panel, "Technology 
Interfaces: Human Interaction in a 
Wired World," looked at the current 
state of devices human interfaces,
. the issues facing designers now, and 
.where interface design will ulti
mately lead. In response to a ques
tion about the experiences people 
. should have with current technolo
gy, panelist NGai Croal, technology 
editor for Newsweek, related the 
story of how the original 3Com 
(then U.S. Robotics) Pilot personal 
digital assistant (PDA) was 
designed: An engineer walked 
around with a block of wood in his 
pocket, evaluating it for its size and 
. weight and trying to determine 
what functionality he wanted to 
have at his disposal.
Croal added that todays design
ers are often blind to what people 
need. For example, reviewers criti
cized the Palm VII for not having
true Web browsing functionality 
built in. However, Palms user tests 
revealed that users didnt really 
want that functionality in a hand
held device  they would prefer to 
use their desktop PC for actually 
surfing the Web and would only 
keep the information they needed to 
look up quickly on their PDA.
The panel also looked at how 
more intuitive interfaces could 
make their way into the market
place. Panelist Astro Teller, CEO and 
founder of BodyMedia, Inc., said 
that there is an incredible amount of 
inertia in the technology industry  
people are used to a particular type 
of interface, especially on their 
desktop machine, and are less will
ing to change.
However, he later cited the Palms 
Graffiti, a system by which users 
enter data into the PDA by making 
letter-like strokes on its touch-sensitive surface, as a good example of 
how people could adapt to a new 
interface. Graffiti forced users to 
learn a new alphabet, but it still 
worked well.
Next, the panel moved on to the 
next generation of user interfaces: 
how people could expect to interact 
with the next generation of devices. 
David Andre, a research scientist for 
the University of California-Berkeley 
and Blue Pumpkin Software, cited 
programming a VCR as a classic 
example of a function humans were 
not designed to perform. It would be 
better, he said, if it had a personali
ty of sorts  if you could just tell 
the VCR what you wanted.
Teller later said that the funda
mental issue at stake is actually the 
users experience itself  how inter
acting with a particular device 
makes them feel about themselves. 
For example, the piano keyboard 
may not be a completely "natural" 
interface for a human, but a person
playing a piano still gets a positive 
experience out of the act. Eyeglasses 
are another example of a positive 
experience  they are a virtually 
transparent prosthesis that allows 
the wearer to see what he/she 
would not ordinarily be able to.
Finally, the panel peered into the 
crystal ball to uncover the distant 
future of interfaces. Corey 
Glickman, senior principal at 
Diamond Technology partners, said 
that were heading toward active 
environments and devices, includ
ing rooms that "know" your prefer
ences for temperature, lighting, etc. 
and will adjust them when you 
enter.
Artificial intelligence will also 
play a role in the future interface, 
according to Glickman. Were 
already bombarded by noise from 
the world around us, and he hopes 
that AI will be used as a tool to help 
distill that information into some
thing useful. Without such a filter, 
there will be too much information 
for us to handle it all gracefully.
Youll get spam from your fridge 
that your milk is spoiled, quipped 
Teller.
Finally, devices with personailties 
are also on the horizon. One of the 
problems with technology is that 
people expect instant gratification 
from machines, but current systems 
are far from perfect. "Were in the 
rabbit-ears phase of a lot of these 
technologies," said panel moderator 
Chip Walter, president of Mindfire 
Consulting. As with the poor TV 
reception people got with rabbitears antennas, right now voicerecognition systems, for example, 
still require extensive "training" on a 
particular voice before becoming 
effective. But since its a machine, 
users expect instant gratification 
from it, which they arent getting.
Enter the personality system.'
| v;V 
courtesy Earl Crane
During Saturdays panels discussions, Harry Stephanou, lllah Nourbakhsh, Steve DiAntonio, Sean McDonald, and Henry 
Ihorne answered such questions as: Will robots will help improve surgical precision and perform medical miracles? Can 
robots relieve us of mundane chores such as washing dishes, mowing the lawn and mopping the floor?
According to Andre, when devices applied, said panelist Henry buy it for companionship. Perhaps,
4888888
acquire a stronger personality, peo
ple will be much more willing to let 
them learn, the same way a person 
is much more willing to give a 
human secretary time to adjust to 
his/her job.
Of course, no technology confer
ence at CMU would be complete 
without a discussion on robotics, 
and another panel covered just that 
topic. "Roboburgh: Automation 
Technologies in Industry and 
Society" looked at several issues fac
ing the robotics industry today. 
Major themes arising from the dis
cussion included the lack of entrepreneurism and venture capital in 
robotics, the common perception 
versus reality of what robots are and 
are not, and finding ways to apply 
existing technologies to fields 
where robotics might not be consid
ered an option.
[The industry] is not about com
ing up with R2D2; its about finding 
where existing technologies can be
Thorpe, CEO of Probotics Inc. 
[Robotics companies] need to find 
what [people] need.... They need to. 
be safe when dispensing prescribed 
drugs. They need to get their mail. 
The panel also talked about why 
consumer robotics hasnt really 
taken off. Part of the reason was 
public perception of what a robot 
should be; another major cause 
was liability (for example, serious 
personal injury could result if a 
lawn-mowing robot malfunc
tioned); and finally, according to 
Thorpe, consumers simply dont 
perceive a need for robots in the 
same way that they see a need for a 
personal computer.
"Robots arent everywhere; 
theres no compelling need to try 
one, he said. Nobodys expecting a 
robotic revolution."
On the other hand, Thorpe said, 
entertainment robots seem to have 
struck a chord. In particular, the Aibo 
is doing well in Japan, where people
he said, entertainment robots could 
morph into something more useful
 Aibo could get you the paper  
but he wasnt sure if this was the 
route robotics would take.
Overall, the conference was con
sidered a success not only by orga
nizers but by presenters and atten
dees as well. It was pretty amaz
ing, said Shahrooz Bhopti, a senior 
finance major at the University of 
Pittsburgh. I was definitely excited 
by the technology aspect; it definite
ly emphasized Pittsburgh as a place 
for students to stay in.
Though the conference was geared 
primarily towards business people, 
according to Frank, some technolo
gists attended as well. People came 
out just to see the robotics demo; 
that was a pleasant surprise.
We thought this would be some
thing to last a long time, he added. 
People were already wondering 
when they could sign up for the next 
one.
Jane Goodall comes to CMU to share unique insights on chimps in the wild
GOODALL, from page 1 
being studied today. She described her first 
contacts with this group, referring to herself 
as "the strange white ape" that entered their 
habitat. The first slide Dr. Goodall present
ed was an image of an older chimp named 
Graybeard. He was the first to stop running 
from her and was instrumental in "calming 
the fears" of the others in his group. It was 
through Graybeard that Goodall was able to 
step into the world of chimps and begin 
research that would affect and challenge 
various scientific presumptions thought to 
have been rather solid in the 1960s.
Goodall went on to describe many inter
esting similarities, that she found between 
humans and apes. Goodalls slides con
firmed that chimps are familiar with the 
concept of social ranking and matriarchs 
and patriarchs, and that they display forms 
of nonverbal communication systems close
ly resembling those of humans. In addition, 
Goodall showed slides exemplifying chimps 
methods of restoring social order and har
mony through threatening postures and 
gestures, as well as slides displaying social 
patterns, grooming patterns, travelling 
methods, and the astonishing similarities
between chimp and human greetings. 
Goodall also spoke of child development 
patterns in chimps and shared several 
rather amusing slides recounting young 
chimps behaviors.
One of GoodalPs most captivating points 
was the observation that chimps exhibit 
tool-using behavior. She recalled that 
humans were previously thought to be the 
only beings on earth that could display such 
a level of intelligence. The documentation 
of this behavior led to a stir in the scientific 
community, as humans were forced to, as 
Goodall stated, "redefine the man, redefine 
the tool, or accept the chimp as undeniably 
close to human beings." Goodalls slides of 
chimps exhibiting tool use, as well as her 
descriptions and photographs of them 
drawing, painting, and deeply engulfed in 
concentration, reaffirmed the observations 
of higher intelligence in chimps and person
ified descriptions of the closeness between 
humans and chimps. For nearly every 
chimp pictured in a slide, Goodall was able 
to describe it as if she were describing a 
human being, commenting on each chimps 
distinct personality. Goodall found the 
chimps histories and lives "as fascinating as
those of humans."
The focus of Goodalls lecture then turned 
to the importance of conservation. She 
showed slides of the Gombe Preserve, 
where she first came into contact with the 
chimps, as it was in the 1960s, followed by 
slides of how the region appears today. The 
difference is stunning: population growth 
and poor conservation techniques have 
resulted in the devastation of the land, 
which is now barren due to soil erosion. 
Roads through the forests, in order to trans
port not only the raw materials found in 
them but also the meats of wild animals to 
feed cultural preferences, have caused the 
wildlife to become exploited. Because the 
chimps lost a large part of their natural sur
roundings and fell prey to human hunters, 
their numbers drastically decreased. In the 
early 1900s there were nearly 2 million 
chimps in the area; approximately 220,000 
remain today.
In addition to the loss of habitat and the 
threat of human hunters, Goodall recount
ed the sad stories of baby chimps caught in 
the wild and sold on the black market. 
Laws have been passed in several countries 
in Africa making this illegal, but law is not
always enforced. Fortunately, Goodall and 
some of her friends were able to build a 
sanctuary in Africa that serves as a home 
for rescued chimps who can never again 
reenter the wild. And although the chimps 
are protected in the sanctuary, Goodall 
confesses that it is a daunting task to 
ensure that they will be safe for the rest of 
their lives and that there will be enough 
room in the sanctuary for each chimp who 
is rescued. The sanctuary is funded, but 
civil law in the country currently prevents 
its expansion.
Goodall spoke out against the exploita
tion of the chimps as she went through 
slides of baby chimps as pets and caged 
chimps in research labs. Haunting... she 
said. There is nothing for these very intel
ligent beings to do. They have lost hope. 
The slides were nothing less than disturb
ing, as Goodall showed one image after 
another of chimps confined to spaces barely 
large enough for their bodies. She went on 
to compare the lives of these chimps, who 
are naturally very sociable beings, to those 
of chimps in the wild. They cannot make 
decisions about what they will do, she said. 
They cannot ask themselves, Where will I
go? Who will I travel with today?
The final slides were a return to the 
Gombe Preserve for updates from continu
ing research on the chimps Goodall first 
started studying in the 60s. She believes 
that studying the chimps helps humans to 
learn more about our place in nature and 
our place in the animal kingdom, as well as 
respect for it. It is not only humans who 
have minds and feeling... chimps also show 
awe and wonder of the world around 
them.
After the slide show Goodall had the 
lights brightened and. again spoke very 
directly on the subject of conservation. 
"We have not been very good stewards of 
the environment," she remarked. "When I 
think of all thats been damaged,. I feel 
ashamed." She also spoke of the Jane 
Goodall Institute, co-founded by Princess 
Genevieve di San Faustinho, and the Roots 
and Shoots Program, both organizations 
dedicated to conservation and education. 
In conclusion, Goodall shared her four rea
sons for hope: the power of the human 
brain, the resilience of nature, the 
indomitable human spirit, and the energy 
of young people.
Ballistic tongues zap bugs
If you watch enough of those 
nature shows, you're sure to see 
film of a frog's lighting quick 
tongue zapping a tasty bug. If so, 
you have witnessed ballistic pro
traction.
No, this is not a form of warfare
- unless of course you happen to 
be that dragonfly doomed to 
death as dinner.
Chameleons and some frogs are 
known for having long ballistic 
tongues, which shoot out like 
hungry harpoons when prey is 
spotted. And now scientists can 
add certain salamanders to that 
amphibian list.
Salamanders of the genus 
Hydromantes are the true pros of 
this target practice. According to
the journal Nature, they have 
tongues that can be shot with 
great accuracy at potential din
ners several centimeters away, 
reaching the object of their diges
tion in a matter of a few millisec
onds.
This bungee cord of a tongue 
launching requires muscles in a 
salamander to span from pelvis to 
mouth - the tongue protrudes up 
to 80% of the salamander's body 
length.
Gives a whole new meaning to 
the term tongue lashing - doesn't 
it?
Source: National Public Radio.
Gabe Sabourin/Assistant Art Editor
CMU alumnus invented first bulletproof material
by Sriram GollapalliScience & Technology Editor
What can police officers, sailors, bikers, and 
car manufacturers all be thankful for?
Kevlar. It is one of the most important synthet
ic organic fibers ever developed. Stephanie 
Kwolek, a chemistry graduate from the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College in 1946, discovered 
this amazing fiber that is five times as strong as 
steel by weight.
She graduated with a bachelor of science in 
chemistry. Shortly thereafter, she joined the site 
of E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company (Dupont) 
as a chemist. She moved to the Pioneering 
Research Laboratory at the Experimental Station 
at Dupont. During this time, she struggled to gain 
intellectual acceptance in the male-dominated 
research community.
This was an exciting time of prolific discoveries 
in polymer chemistry. Kwolek became absorbed 
in her research. She began her Experimental 
Station career "scouting" for new polymers, and 
her interest in the field remained fresh.
She had a spirit of tenacity and is a focused 
individual, said Guy Berry, professor of 
Chemistry and Polymer Science at Carnegie 
Mellon. In the 1960s she found herself in a 
mens world with an advanced degree, and she 
was hired into Dupont with a particular objec
tive.
Kwolek learned how to make long molecules
called polymers that can be made into fabric or 
plastics. In 1964, her supervisor asked Kwolek 
and her coworkers to search for high-perfor
mance fibers. They were looking for strong and 
stiff fibers because there was a possibility of a 
gasoline shortage at the time. If they were able to 
reinforce tires with fiber, that was lightweight, 
instead of steel wire, much less gasoline would be 
needed to operate cars or other vehicles. 
Chemists at the time were also looking for fibers 
that would not melt at high temperatures so they 
could use them safely under such conditions.
Kwolek's earliest work pioneered low-temperature processes for the preparation of condensa
tion polymers and resulted in hundreds of new 
polymers, including Kapton polyimide film, and 
Nomex aramid polymer and fiber.
The initial materials discovered were limited 
by their upper level of a temperature melting 
point. Dupont realized that they had to change 
the matter and methods to prepare it.
As she carried out experiments to make 
stronger and stiffer fibers, she discovered an 
amazing branch of polymer science: liquid crys
talline polymers. The most famous product of her 
discovery was Kevlar.
She was an extremely hard worker and very 
inquisitive, said Berry. She was very productive 
at what she did. Her work became commercial 
successes that the Dupont company still manu
factures today.
Kwolek received the Distinguished 
Achievement Award and Merit Award from the
Courtesy of Alumni Relations
Stephanie Kwolek received the National Medal of 
Technology in 1996 from President Bill Clinton. 
Carnegie Mellon Alumni Association in 1988 and 
1983 respectively.
She retired in 1986 as a research associate but 
continues to consult for Du Pont and serves on 
the committees of the National Research Council 
and the National Academy of Sciences. Her name 
appears on seventeen patents issued between 
1961 and 1986.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10, 2000
Dinosaur fossils 
challenge theories
PATAGONIA, SOUTH AMERICA 
(AP) - Scientists have discovered 
the bones of what could be the 
largest meat-eating dinosaur ever 
to walk the Earth - a needle
nosed, razor-toothed beast that 
may have been more terrifying 
than even the Tyrannosaurus rex.
A team of researchers from 
Argentina and North America 
unearthed the fossilized bones of as 
many as six of the previously 
unknown species in Patagonia, a 
desert on the eastern slopes of the 
Andes in South America. The dig 
began in 1997.
The discovery of the predators 
graveyard challenges the theory 
that the biggest meat-eaters were 
loners. It also raises the possibili
ty that they lived and hunted in 
packs - which would make them 
even more menacing to their 
prey.
You always think of these things 
as being solitary. Now we know 
they traveled in packs, Philip 
Currie, one of two scientists to 
make the discovery, said in an 
interview Friday. He works with 
the Royal Tyrrell Museum in 
Alberta, Canada.
Currie said the newly discovered 
species lived about 100 million 
years ago, and was heavier and had 
slightly shorter legs than the T-rex, 
which roamed North America. It 
had a tail and short front legs that 
were basically useless.
The dinosaur also was character
ized by a long, narrow skull and a 
jaw shaped like scissors. That sug
gests it could have dissected its prey 
with almost surgical precision, 
where the lyrannosaur had a nut
cracker skull, Currie said.
Researchers estimated the meateating giant was 45 feet long, bigger 
than the reigning king of the carni
vores, the 41-foot Giganotosaurus. 
The better-known T-rex was about 
40 feet long.
I think it would look just as nasty, 
if not worse, Currie said. This guy 
has a long snout, long skull, incredi
bly sharp teeth - I think it would
have been terrifying.
Currie said the animal is appar
ently related to the Giganotosaurus, 
but is a new species and genus, mak
ing the two creatures as closely 
related as a dog and a fox. The 
dinosaur is further removed from 
the T-rex, at least as different as a 
dog is from a cat.
The researchers have given their 
discovery a South American Indian 
name but are withholding it until 
their findings are published. They 
released some details of the discov
ery in conjunction with an exhibit of 
some of Curries other findings at 
the Riverfront Arts Center in 
Wilmington, Del. The exhibit 
opened Friday.
Homer said he is awaiting the geo
logical evidence that could determine 
whether the dinosaurs really did die 
together. If they all died at the same 
time and if they died somewhat cata
strophically, he said, that would 
lend support to the fact that meateating dinosaurs traveled in groups, 
perhaps in family groups.
In 1995, a farmer led Curries col
league, Rodolfo Coria of the 
Carmen Funes Municipal Museum, 
to the site in the Andes foothills, 
640 miles southwest of Buenos 
Aires. The region has yielded a num
ber of discoveries, including the 
Giganotosaurus.
There were lots of animals, and 
when they died, there was lots of 
mud and sand to get buried in. And 
if you can get buried, you can get 
fossilized, Currie said.
Thinking they might have found 
another Giganotosaurus, Coria and 
Currie began working together on 
the site in 1997. They quickly 
unearthed a number of bones and 
grew excited as they realized they 
had found something new.
They now have remains from at 
least a half-dozen dinosaurs, rang
ing from half-grown to full-grown 
animals. That is important because 
scientists can study how the species 
grew, said paleontologist Kenneth 
Carpenter of the Denver Museum of 
Natural History.
Science & Technology briefsHarvard professor receives Dickson Prize in science
Carnegie Mellon University awarded its 
$50,000 Dickson Prize in Science to Howard 
Raiffa, a Harvard University professor who is a 
pioneer in the field of decision analysis. Raiffa is 
an applied mathematician who works on com
plex decision problems and pursues ways that 
analysis can help individuals or groups make 
better decisions.
He received his award on Tliesday during a 
presentation by President Jared Cohon in. 
McConomy Auditorium.
Following the presentation, Raiffa lectured on 
Analytical Roots of a Decision Scientist. He has 
written such books as The Art and Science of Negotiation and Lectures on Negotiation Analysis 
that explain good ways of negotiating.
Since 1957, Raiffa has been a member of the 
Harvard faculty. He earned a Gold Medal from 
the International Association for Conflict 
Management and a Lifetime Achievement  
Award from the CPR Institute for Dispute
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Professor Raiffa, author of books that are still 
used by the University, recalled his experiences 
on being a member of an academic community 
to the campus on Tuesday after receiving the 
Dickson Prize.
Resolution.
Carnegie Mellon presented Raiffa with an 
honorary degree in 1988. Raiffa earned his 
bachelors degree in mathematics, his masters 
degree in statistics, and his PhD in mathematics 
at the University of Michigan.Breast cancer support groups do not always help
Not all women with breast cancer benefit from 
participation in discussion groups with other 
breast cancer patients, according to a new study.
Researchers from Carnegie Mellon University 
and the University of Pittsburgh report their 
findings in the current issue of Health Psychology.
For women whose spouses are not supportive, 
participation in peer-support groups can help 
improve their ability to cope and function with the 
illness on a daily basis. However, for those who 
have adequate support at home, participation in 
these groups may actually make things worse.
The researchers randomly assigned 230 breast 
cancer patients to an educational support group, 
a peer-discussion group, or a control group that 
received usual medical care. Before and after the 
eight week program, the women completed per
sonal psychological inventories that measured 
the level of support they received from their 
spouses.
Women in the education group heard weekly 
presentations on nutrition, chemotherapy side 
effects, or other topics related to breast cancer. 
During the program, women in the peer-support 
groups met weekly and discussed their experi
ences and feelings about the disease.
Women who reported low levels of support 
and more conflict with their spouses at the start 
of the study benefited from the education and 
peer-support groups, according to the 
researchers. These women functioned better on 
a daily basis over time, in contrast to those in the 
control group, who did worse.
However, among women who reported ade
quate levels of support and little conflict with 
their spouses at the beginning of the study, the 
results were quite different. Those who heard 
the educational lectures functioned no better on 
a daily basis than did women in the control 
group, while those who participated in the peersupport group actually did worse over time.
How could participation in a support group
lead to poorer daily functioning in some 
women? The researchers suggest that with 
exposure to the weekly discussions, women who 
previously saw their relationships as helpful may 
have had a chance to re-evaluate them. 
Alternatively, participation in the discussion 
groups may have spurred the women to discuss 
their experiences and feelings more at home, 
leading to more conflict with their spouses.
The educational groups, in contrast, do no 
harm and definitely benefit many women whose 
partners or physicians are not fully supportive. 
The resources provided by the educational 
group interventions seem to meet the largest 
portion of womens needs, said Helgeson. 
Health care professionals could either offer the 
educational intervention to all women with 
breast cancer or minimize costs and resources 
and only target the group with the lowest per
sonal resources.Researchers use microwaves to reclaim waste metal and oil
The Carnegie Mellon Research Institute is 
doing pioneering research in the use of 
microwaves to convert waste materials and 
petrochemicals to recyclable material.
The Applied Advanced Technologies group 
has designed and built a microwave chip washer 
that is being used to clean scrap metal chips. The 
process uses microwaves to separate waste 
materials into recyclable and non-toxic materi
als. A pilot unit is currently being field tested.
After treatment in the chip washer, the clean 
metal chips and oil are recovered and recycled. 
The processing solution is treated and reused. 
The commercial chip washer will treat one mil
lion pounds of metal per month.
Other waste extraction processes produce 
additional residual wastes or are not as energyefficient. The microwave system works at low 
temperatures and at ambient atmospheric pres
sures and is a near-zero waste process.
Metal sludge is typically disposed of in land
fills because it is expensive to remove oil from 
the metals surface. The success of the steel 
sludge recycling research has opened the doors 
for other applications.
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollapalli
Get Two Degrees From 
Carnegie Mellon
The Heinz School of Public Policy and Management 
Invites Carnegie Mellon Juniors to apply to the 
Accelerated Masters Program (AMP) 
Receive both your undergraduate and graduate degrees 
with one additional year of study! 
*Master of Science in Public Policy and Management
Concentration areas include management, non-profit management, urban planning and 
economic development, financial analysis, and public policy analysis
*Master of Arts Management
Management Assistantships available in second year
For more information or to apply on-line visit our web 
page at: http://www.heinz.cmu/home3.html
Housing Movie Channel16
The newest addition to 
Campus CableTV -
Carnegie Mei Ion. HOUSINif SERVICES
Featured movies for April
The Nightmare Before Christmas 
Primal Fear 
Whats Eating Gilbert Grape? 
The Birdcage 
Life is Beautiful 
Mission Impossible 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 
Blade Runner 
Sliding Doors 
The Usual Suspects 
Ronin 
The English Patient 
Election 
The Fifth Element
Movies, dates and times are available on 
CableTV Channel 3 and 
the Telecom web page - 
www.telecom. cc.cmu. edu/CableTV
another service of:
Cameade Mellon. HOUSING SERVICES
in cooperation with:
6uI4lru F9mi1u9mC v9Irt12 pLl Vee1tl 9e 6uI4lru M1el vsmrln1l Tl229r pl2lt9i

---------------------------------------------------

Get Your VOTE on
Get free stuff
Student Government Elections
MTW 8am - 5pm Outside Doherty Hall
STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT
CMU
/vpoU0Z hw ghrx RAr*lwA :hOw 
Ow* A5aR aR y5lxl ghrxCREDi HISTORY
Your student loan is nothing to take lightly. When you skip payments or default on your
loan, you risk your chance for credit cards, car loans, and mortgages. nTTTT1 A A
So don't play around; if repayment gets to be too much, PHEAA can help. Iff /\
Learn more at[youcandeaIwithit^jg or call 1.800.328.0355Creating Access u> Education
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
afluial MAIL BOXES ETC.'
.v I47 
obYZ4bYW 
obY.vVv
DOMESTIC OR INTERNATIONAL
' S ox7 Vg 
St 6T5MMW 
A 6fxb
SHIPPING
PACKAGING
OVERNIGHT
PACKING
SUPPLIES
Oakland 414 S. Craig Street 687-6100
V. Tfe sv T r *- .r
i= STANFORD June 20 through"'III SUMMER SESSION August 12, 2000
Undergrads ? Graduate Students
 Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement
 Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor
 Live on campus - 35 miles south of San Francisco
 Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments
Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology,
Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, 
Classics, Athletics, Literature, History, Intensive Languages, 
Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology
Stanford University 
Summer Session 
Building 590, Ground Floor 
Stanford, CA 94305-3005 
(650} 723-3109. Fax: (650) 725-6080 
Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
Web: summersession.stanford.edu
For a FREE catalogue, send your:
Name_________________
Address___________;________________
City, ST. ZIP ________________
Email________________
CMUVtl)
Circle: LlndergradGrad

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
10 April 2000THE TARTANPage L9
Carnival offers variety of comedy, bands
by Beth PowellAssistant Entertainment Editor
Ready for another fun-filled, 
entertaining carnival? Not sure what 
to expect this year? Especially since 
you thought you were going to see 
George Clinton and he cancelled at 
the last minute? Well, take a look. It 
may not be as bad as you think.
The entertainment this year starts 
off with the band Skankin Homers 
on the side stage. If you know any
thing about this band, then you 
know these guys play a mixture of 
ska, punk, surf, and swing. One can 
only guess what their sound really is, 
so if you want to know, check them 
out yourself.
Afterwards you may want to stick 
around for a little while and treat 
yourself to some comedy acts. First 
up is Eddie Ifft, an almost grown-up 
version of Dennis the Menace. When 
he graduated from college with a 
political science degree, Ifft had to 
choose between being a comedian or 
being a politician, both of which he 
considers to be basically the same 
thing. He settled on stand-up come
dian. Ifft claims that his humor con
centrates on the pranks and tricks 
hes pulled during his journey 
through life.
Gary Greenberg is set to take the 
stage after the young Eddie Ifft. 
Among Mr. Greenbergs credits are 
appearances on Comedy Central and 
the USA Network and writing for The Daily Show, as well as a book, Self Helpless, which is being published by 
Career Press and a new book entitled The Pop Up Book of Phobias. 
Greenbergs show is based on the
surreal, bizarre things in life. You 
know, beer-drinking donkeys or 
mannequins on pogo sticks or ani
mals on roller-skates. I think you get 
the idea.
After Fridays fun night of comedy, 
its time to get ready for a night of 
music from some local bands. I 
know, I know, local bands, you ask? 
Just dont knock it until you try it, 
okay? Who knows, maybe youll see 
the band before they hit the big time 
and then youll be able to say, I knew 
that band before they were famous.
So, first up on the list is Wade, a 
band thats managed three fulllength albums after their first inde
pendent effort. Theyre anticipating 
the release of their fifth effort in win
ter 2000. Its been said that they give 
an intense performance with a 
strong, post-punk sound. This past 
summer the band played shows with 
bands such as Reel Big Fish and 
Sponge and they are often featured 
in the most prestigious venues here 
in Pittsburgh.
Then its time for the main enter
tainment event of carnival weekend: 
The Buzz Poets. The group writes 
unique music that incorporates their 
love of many different styles. Its con
temporary music with The Beatles 
mentality. The latest album by this 
group is called, Pretzel Sex. It com
bines a wide range of musical styles 
including hip-hop, R&B, disco, reg
gae, hard rock, and even country. 
They say its a new twist on the Sex, 
Drugs, and Rock & Roll theme.
There you have it  this years car
nival entertainment acts. It doesnt 
sound so bad, does it? Check it out 
or be left wondering what you 
missed.
file photo by Anna Fortin
The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion rocked the Carnival main stage in 1998.
Last 10 Years of Carnival Headliners
1999  Soul Coughing
1998  Jon Spencer Blues Explosion
1997  Letters to Cleo
1996  Mighty Mighty Bosstones
1995  Yo La Tengo
1994  Belly
1993  Live
1992  They Might Be Giants 
1991  The Clarks 
1990  Oingo Boingo
Gem shines amidst post-Oscar movie duds
by Balaji SarpeshkarCopy Manager
Its that time of year again. The 
Oscars have come and gone in all 
their glory, and were stuck in the 
period between the pre-Oscar hits 
and the summer big-name-actionblockbusters. This period is the time 
of the dud flick, when 9 out of 10 new 
films are not worth the price of 
admission. If you look hard enough, 
however, you can still find a few 
gems. High Fidelity, by director 
Stephen Frears, is one of these rare 
spring films that leaves you feeling 
good about life.
Rob Gordon (John Cusack) is the 
owner of Championship Vinyl, a 
semi-failing record store in Chicago. 
Along with his two employees Dick 
and Barry (Todd Louiso, Jack Black), 
Rob seems to have it all. Until, that is, 
his long-time girlfriend Laura (Iben 
Hjejle) walks out on him. This sets 
the tone for the film, as Rob begins to 
examine his history of rejection and 
tries to figure out why he cant be 
happy.
Rob, Dick, and Barry are fond of 
coming up with lists of their all-time 
top five songs for almost any subject. 
Rob, however, also has some top five 
lists of his own. One that he refers to 
almost constantly is the list of his top
Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.High Fidelity features an interesting mixture of new and old faces, including 
(from left to right) Jack Black, Todd Louiso, John Cusack, and Lisa Bonet.
five breakups. Of course, he never 
talks to his two sidekicks about this 
list; instead, he talks directly to the 
audience.
After telling the audience the sto
ries behind his top five, Rob attempts 
to talk to these women again, to see if 
he can figure out what went wrong in 
his relationships with them. All the 
while, we see him deal with shoplift
ing customers, and Laura, who seems 
to have left a neverending amount of
her things at Robs apartment. As he. 
continues to talk to Laura, he soon 
learns about Ian (Tim Robbins), the 
man she is living with, and Rob really 
starts to go crazy. When Ian finally 
visits the record store to stop Rob 
from bothering him and Laura, we 
see several different scenes, as Rob 
fantasizes about the things he would 
like to do to Ian.
Ultimately, though, Robs breakup 
forces him to look over his life and
learn from his past mistakes. As he 
talks to the women he dated in his 
younger days, he finally realizes what 
he wants from a woman, and begins 
to work towards it. By the end of the 
film, he even grows up a little.
Part of the appeal of this film is its 
unique narrative approach. Rather 
than using only dialogue to advance 
the plot, Rob allows us to know his 
inner thoughts by talking to the cam
era. This allows the audience to real
ly identify with Robs suffering, and 
to become more emotionally involved 
in the film. In a similar vein, the plot 
is very universal, since anybody who 
has faced rejection can relate to it.
Quite possibly the best aspect of 
this film is its cast. John Cusack does 
a wonderful job of reeling the audi
ence in, and his supporting cast make 
a great contrast. Dick and Barry, 
while best friends, are near polar 
opposites. Dick is a quiet, shy man, 
while Barry is outspoken, loud, and 
sometimes just plain mean. The inter
action between the two helps to light
en the tone of the movie.
Out of the glut of movies that will 
hit theaters this month, High Fidelity 
is surely one of the winners. This 
light-hearted romantic comedy stays 
out of the realm of the tearjerker 
chick flick, but will still have audi
ences leaving with a warm, fuzzy 
feeling. B+
Reviewer finds a new favorite Indian restaurant
by Becca FribushContributing Editor
Ive come to a realization about 
Indian restaurants  the more non
descript the name, the better the 
foods likely to be. If the name is so 
blah as to consist simply of India 
combined with some generic elegantsounding noun, youre likely to have a 
very good dining experience indeed.
India Palace would be Exhibit A. 
This restaurant on Centre Avenue in 
Oakland reliably lets you satisfy your 
curry cravings via delicious, inexpen
sive meals. Behind the boring name 
hides some of the best Indian food 
within walking distance of campus.
The dining room is spacious and 
pink, with scenes from Indian folklore 
on the walls and ornate light fixtures 
on the ceiling. The waitstaff offer 
extremely prompt and attentive ser
vice  you almost feel guilty drinking 
your water because youre afraid 
someones hovering around just wait
ing to refill your glass. In terms of 
price, India Palace is a bargain. Few
entrees cost more than $10, and most 
cost a few dollars less. And for that 
price you get big portions and all the 
rice you can eat before you even start 
getting into the (equally cheap) appe
tizers and breads.
We started out with samosas and 
got nice large ones with appropriate
ly flaky crusts. The filling of the veg
etable samosas had just the right 
ratio  lots of potato and very few 
peas. When we were finished, it took 
enormous self-discipline not to order 
more. But our efforts were rewarded 
when the main courses came.
The chicken and lamb curries fea
ture succulent meats in well-cooked 
sauce. A standout was the rye chick
en, an unfamiliar variation on chick
en curry with mustard seeds and a 
vaguely fruity aftertaste. Some of the 
richer sauces can be a little blander 
than at other restaurants  for exam
ple, the chicken makhani, with but
ter, cream, and tomatoes  but 
theyre still good enough to be worth 
eating. Vegetarian plates like palak 
paneer (cheese cubes in spinach 
sauce) are handled also served.
India Palace
4519 Centre Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania
Ratings
Food: AAtmosphere: A 
Service: A 
Value: A
Price Range: $7 - $12/entre 
Overall: A
Part of the fun of any Indian meal 
are the breads. India Palaces version 
of naan, the ubiquitous flatbread, 
isnt bad, although it was kind of 
heavy. The puri, on the other hand, is 
the fulfillment of all of my Indian 
bread fantasies. This light fried bread 
is served as hot as it can get without 
actually burning the roof of your 
mouth and is puffed out to the point 
where it could be used as a pillow. Its 
the perfect thing for scooping up 
extra sauce.
For dessert, the favorite was the 
gulab jamun, but I found it hard to 
eat more than two bites of these 
sweet cheese pastries with,honey and 
syrup. Maybe its an acquired taste. 
Well, Ill just have to keep going back 
to India Palace until I acquire it.
India Palace is at 4519 Centre Avenue. To get there, head down Craig and make a left at Centre. The restaurant will be immediately visible on your right.
Cheap Movies
(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Open Your Eyes
Thursday, April 13
Before I start talking about Thursday's film, Abre los ojos, 
allow me to say a few words about the recent Tim Burton 
week and brush up on my Spanish. Some of you may not 
have noticed that somehow the films people forgot to show 
Burtons true masterpiece: Pee Wee Hermans Big Adventure. 
Ladies and gentlemen, your activities fee at work.
Anyway, the movie in question (no, not Big Adventure') cen
ters on a man named Cesar (Spanish for sex machine to all 
the chicks) who is known among social circles for his 
remarkable success with the girlies. Unfortunately, our man 
gets in a car wreck that ruins his lady-killing face. Eventually, 
Cesar gets things back together and even regains the use of 
his hands when, in the films climactic scene, the doctors 
reveal that he never actually hurt them.
Kind of a rags-to-riches tale, I guess. Or maybe not. Perhaps 
more of a riches-to-messed-up-face-to-recovery-to-otherstuff-spoken-in-Spanish-to-rags movie. Been there, done that.At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 amIn McConomy Auditorium
Galaxy Quest
Friday, April 14
This movie is the long-awaited, critically acclaimed sequel 
to the groundbreaking film Pee Wees Big Adventure. Not real
ly, but rumor has it they didnt show Pee Wee during Tim 
Burton weekend. Anyway, back to the movies. This Tim Allen 
vehicle, despite at first glance looking about as interesting as 
a drooling contest, managed to win favor with critics for the 
sly fun it pokes at the popular Star Trek franchise. The basic 
premise is that Allen is the star of an off-the-air Trek-like TV 
show, along with Sigourney Weaver, who apparently portrays 
the shows Cleavage Officer. When actual aliens come to 
earth seeking help, they mistakenly seek out the shows cast.
Why do people keep making Star Trek shows? The produc
ers should instead ship cash over to the networks so they can 
work on better shows than When Morons Attack 6 or Every 
American Home Video Ever Where Some Guy Gets Hit in the 
Jewels. Im no creative TV genius, but I bet a half hour of the 
most boring thing I do all day (reading this column, for 
instance) would be at least as entertaining as Suddenly Susan.At 8pm, 10pm, and midnightIn McConomy Auditorium
Galaxy Quest
Saturday, April 15
Being Carnival and all, theres a good chance that a number 
of students will miss Friday's showings of Galaxy Quest due to 
intoxication. Lucky for you, Galajiy Quest will be on Saturday 
as well to be missed due to intoxication.
Speaking of intoxication, what was I on that made me 
watch all four hours of the Oscars? Sure, its fun to see who 
wins, but they dont give anything important away until long 
after any rational viewer has flipped to the Food Network. My 
only real problem with the show was the Thalberg Award, 
which is the lifetime achievement prize. Im sure Warren 
Beatty has made lots of great movies and its great that they 
were able to cut to Annette Bening and mention her pregnan
cy 752 times, but how can they keep handing that award out 
when Americas most deserving actor is still empty-handed? 
Thats right, Im talking about Paul Reubens, star of Pee Wees 
Big Adventure, which, coincidentally, was shown zero times 
here at Carnegie Mellon last weekend.At 8pm, 10pm, and midnightIn McConomy Auditorium
TBA
Sunday, April 16
Ummmmm... .yeah, uh, this movie is about some stuff and 
some people and characters and then theres that one part 
with the I have no idea what is showing on Sunday night. 
Something family-oriented, Im certain. Definitely not any
thing involving 70s funk music and naked people. Nope. I 
dont even know why you brought that up in the first place. In 
fact, Im not going to talk anymore about Sundays movie 
because I know youre going to each and every showing, 
arent you? Yeah, I thought so.
Well, without the part of this column where I talk about the 
movies being shown (sometimes as many as 6 words), Ive 
got some free space. I think if I write one more sentence right 
here youll probably forget that there was little or no discus
sion of anything cinematic in this paragraph. In fact, you 
probably wont even realize that I got through this entire 
piece, explaining that this is clearly not a movie you want to 
take the folks to, without once mentioning either Peter North 
or the fact that Pee Wee Hermans Big Adventure played 
absolutely no part whatsoever in Tim Burton weekend.At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnightIn McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

GETTING SMARTER ALL THE TIME.
COMPLIMENTARY PASSES
EXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS CARDMEMBERS.
WHEN AND WHERE.
v1rlisn1t Tsr9m 
pLlsulm 
5&m12 B#
WHAT.
Cardmembers get a compli
mentary pass for two for 
a preview screening of 
Dreamworks new film 
Roadtrip to be released 
May 19th.
HOW.
Just bring your American 
Express Card and your 
student ID to the location 
listed below to pick up your 
pass.
SPECIAL OFFER 
JUST FOR APPLYING.
Receive a complimentary 
pass for two when you 
apply for the American 
Express Credit Card for 
Students (stop by the 
location listed below).
MORE TO COME.
Road Trip is one in a series 
of major motion pictures to 
be previewed on your cam
pus this year, compliments 
of American Express.
Warn to take your academic performance to a new high? Get the study resources you need ar 
WebCT.com. the e-learning hub. Whether you're looking for study aids and research materials. or 
want to discuss your favorite academic subject with s'tudents and faculty around the world.
WebCT.com is the place to make it happen. It's your -------------------------------------------------------
education. Take control. Visit www.webct.com/grab. I //im
PICK UP YOUR TICKETS HERE.
!r1almc1uC vlrulm
April 10 - 12
Worldco LLC 
IVY LEAGUE AND TOP 
SCHOOL GRADS
Wanted for position of 
Equity Trader
Pittsburgh's dotcom
ffl Muni AuctionThe First Municipal Bond Auction Website
Worldco LLC, an established self clearing trading firm, seeks bright determined individuals with the drive and commitment to become successful traders.
For those with 3.6+ GPAs, a chance to trade with firms capital, with no capital contribution of your own.
Experienced risk management and lecture program give you support and instruction. Sponsorship for Series 7,55 and 24 exams. Join other Ivy-League and top school alum in a thriving trading environment.Interested? Check us out at www.MuniAuction.com
Fax resume and cover letter 212-601-7010. 
ATTN: Robert Holmes e-mail resume and letter 
rholmes@wldc.com
Send cover letter and resume to Harry Griffith at hg@MuniAuction.com
Seeks top-notch IT professionals for Perl Programming and Database positions.
Priority skills are
Linux & Perlor call 412-391-7686 x324.
Entertainment'

---------------------------------------------------

Horror movie impresses criticMOVIES REVIEWED THIS SEMESTER
by Thaddeus BillmanStaffwriter
We are going to die, not later, but 
; now.
; Alex Browning and six classmates have 
just cheated death, or so they think. After 
: having a vision of a plane crash, Alex 
1 began screaming about the planes immi1 nent crash and was kicked off the plane, 
along with a group of friends and people 
who happened to be stuck in the aisle 
; when it all happened. Minutes later, the 
j plane took off and then exploded, much 
j to everyones surprise.
; Unfortunately, for Alex and the others, 
{ death is not about to let them get away. 
One by one, they begin to die off in 
| strange ways. The feds show up and begin 
I to investigate the crash and Alex. 
[ Meanwhile the whole town thinks Alex is 
: a nut, except for Clear Rivers, a girl who 
; was previously unacquainted with Alex. 
; She left the plane, not because she was 
j forced to, but because somehow she had a 
j feeling that Alex was right.
Pegged as a horror movie, Final 
| Destination is, perhaps, better described 
' as a suspense film with a lot of gore in it.
The label thriller fits it well. There are also 
underlying science fiction elements. This 
combination makes the movie more inter
esting than the teen slasher movies of late, 
while remaining just as fun to watch.
The script, written by Jeffrey Reddick, 
is the movies greatest asset. It presents 
interesting ideas in an intelligent way. It is 
suspense-filled and enjoyable. In other 
words, it doesnt ignore the viewers 
desire for content or for action, as it has 
plenty of both. The viewer is never quite 
sure what will happen next, and the end
ing leaves the viewer asking, "what hap
pens next? In addition, it ignites probing 
questions about the nature of life and 
death.
The acting is commendable. Final Destination features teens who can actual
ly act, a nice change from the typical teen 
movie. Devon Sawa, as Alex, plays his dif
ficult role quite well. He is able to walk the 
fine line between craziness and genius 
with great skill. Ali Larter, as Clear, plays 
her supporting role reasonably well. She 
comes across as believable, but doesnt 
provide much more. It is Kerr Smith, as 
Carter Hogan, however, who really steals 
the show. He plays a student who seems to 
be angry with everyone and everything.
When faced with the moment of truth, 
however, his philosophy on life changes 
for the better, and by the end he is a com
pletely new person.
The one element that the film is really 
lacking is a strong director. The movie is 
James Wongs first attempt at feature film, 
and it shows. It looks as though the film 
was rushed into distribution, as the scenes 
dont quite flow as well as they should. In 
addition, some scenes could have benefit
ed from a retake.
The only other aspect some people 
might not like is all the. gore. Final Destination features tons and tons of gore, 
much of it is completely unnecessary. It is 
not a movie for the weak of heart or stom
ach.Final Destination works well as a 
thriller. It has enough content to remain 
interesting, and enough action to remain 
fun. The writing in fresh and inventive, 
while the acting is better than what is usu
ally expected of its genre. The only signif
icant problem with the film is that it 
appears to have been rushed, thus leaving 
certain scenes beneath their full potential. 
All in all, Final Destination is quite enjoy
able and I rate it as the best movie Ive 
seen so far this year. B+
Kerr Smith <5 in the new supernatural thriller, Final Destination. The movie also features Ali Larter and Devon Sawa.
The Cradle Will Rock Grade: B Reviewed January 24While not a perfect movie, this film is worth seeing. Director Tim Robbins provides the viewer with a stylistic, visually stimulating movie.... I would especially recommend this movie to fans of period pieces.
 Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
The Boiler Room Grade: C+ Reviewed February 21Overall, this is a fairly average film.... Like many films, it had the potential to be a great motion picture, but settled for mediocrity instead. I would recommend it to people interested in an unusual tale about the inner workings of a corrupt brokerage firm, but would not recommend it to someone who expects a fast-paced dramatic thriller.
 Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
Wonder Boys Grade: BReviewed February 28This movie is very funny and reflected well on the atmosphere ofCMU. I would especially recommend the film to anyone who likes to watch movies and point out all of the places theyve been before. 
 Sara Stille, News Editor
Mission To Mars Grade: C Reviewed March 13This is a fun and enjoyable movie that comes up short in many ways. It suffers primarily from a poor script and inadequate transition between scenes. However, it remains worth a look.
 Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
Pitch Black Grade: BReviewed March 13"This movie is just what a formulaic science fiction movie should be: a thoroughly entertaining film that doesnt try to.be more than it is.
 Matt Brun, Special Projects Manager
Erin Brockovich Grade: AReviewed March 20"If theres one thing Erin Brockovich will leave you with, its inspiration. Youll get two hours of inspiration, two hours of Julia Roberts at her best, and two hours of a story that will compel you to relate to the lives of a group of people who have sustained many forms of deception.
 Asha Pathak, Business Manager
Final Destination Grade: B+ Reviewed April 10This movie works well as a thriller. The writing is fresh and inventive, while the acting is better than usually expected of its genre. All in all, Final Destination, is quite enjoyable and I rate it as the best movie Ive seen so far this year.
 Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
High Fidelity Grade: B+ Reviewed April 10Out of the glut of movies that will hit theaters this month, High Fidelity is surely one of the winners. This light-hearted romantic comedy stays out of the realm of the tearjerker chick flick,  but will still have audiences leaving with a warm, fuzzy feeling. 
 Balaji Sarpeshkar, Copy Manager
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel Room
Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom suites 
with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, 
free local phone, parking and located 
a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
(^kad^ida^n*m
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15232  shadysideinn.com  (412) 441-4444
In Print and Online, The Journal Has it All.
Students who subscribe to The Wall Street Journal also get the Interactive Edition - 
the Web's premier source for news and information - at no additional cost 
That's two Journals for the price of one.
phx Ghxl aw,h Rll ghrx kxh,lRRhx hx FO:: SnedsSudcScSTHE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
pfA 5MM hlcu 9e h9uL
w9m24c 6pgAAp SV!gN5M

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
DO YOU THINK 
ANYONE UJILL , 
BELIEVE ITS HARD 
I'M DI5- jo BELIEVE 
ABLED? YOU'RE NOT
DO YOU 
NEED A 
NOTE 
FROM MY 
DOCTOR?
I'M THINKING 
ABOUT GOING OUT
ON A FAKE .--------
DISABILITY I 
CLAIM. I-------
I CAME BACK 
EARLY FROM MY 
FAKE DISABILITY 
LEAVE. (-------w--------
I DIDN'T 
KNOW 
YOU WERE 
GONE.
NO, IT'S
BEEN
OBVIOUS
FOR A
LONG
TIME.
I MISSED THE 
CAMARADERIE 
AND THE 
STIMULATING 
CONVERSATION
NOT BAD 
FOR A 
.TUESDAY.
THIS BUMPER^ 
STICKER WILL 
HELP REMIND 
YOU. f--------------
''CAN YOU THINK 
OF ANYTHING 
THAT WALLY DOES 
VIGOROUSLY?
ALWAYS ASK 
YOURSELF, WHAT 
WOULD DOGBERT 
DO? I--------------------
WALLY IS OUT ON 
DISABILITY. I 
WANT YOU TO SPY 
ON HIM. I
WE NEED VIDEO 
EVIDENCE OF 
WALLY DOING  
A VIGOROUS 
1 ACTIVITY.
UMM. . .1 
WOULDN'T 
DO THAT.
YOU REALLY 
SHOULD 
TRY IT.
I'D RATHER 
NOT. faGIMME
WALLYS CLAIM OF i 
DISABILITY WILL 
BE PUT TO THE TEST.
IT LOOKS 
THAT WAY 
WHEN I 
JIGGLE THE 
CAMERA.
DOES 
HE EVER 
MOVE?
HERE WE GO. . . 
OH, YEAH. . .COME 
TO ASOK... GO, 
BABY, GO! /'
AT ALL TIMES I 
ASK MYSELF, 
WHAT WOULD 
DOGBERT DO?
THEN IT DOESN'T 
MATTER THAT MY 
BRAIN IS THE 
SIZE OF A TINY 
DRIED PEANUT.
THAT THOUGHT 1 
WOULD MAKE 
DOGBERT HUNGRY
P&64NE - 
ToPllvRX
1 0dnA rt m GOINGTo
8AP v&gi, m I PIPN*T TUINK IT \NoULP EE THIS BKP...
4-3 WlLtVgNOM-<=GjnyR.hETWW'NHOH-i>eOvMUP.tCt'WlLNencM-5CQjltUB.t
PLKflNG, pic 
FUTURES
-IurTe3cc
'wiLC.yeMoN-seourruR.SETwwJ wow-*soMo R.WW. tlC5M-4CQOnu?. lnm
0K...TH6 RULQ FRo(A 
NoW ON Ifc, XOU 
UNIE. lo REM) TWi BOOK. eEFoRi 
You 6.CHEPUL& 
6P0K SI&NIN&
WH&N W THIMK 
WIR 4.TORIE6 
CW'T &ET tARE 
UNgELlEVKgLE...
H-6 wLivSNoM-securruBNeTNOti-sCQortvJ .NCtH-6 'WlLtNMOM-SeOvhTR.MCTV^N>W.
Ge#fCS
_____Bats and Changes !
Today we bid farewell to Eldritch and await a new cre
ation from the mind of Chris Rugen. We also wel
come back Jim Kenneys comics from the land of meat
balls. Other then that there is really nothing new going on 
in the comics section, but for aesthetic reasons the text has 
to look good. Therefore we arrange everything just so that 
it fits perfectly into these text boxes so it looks just right.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 10. 2000L13
What in -tarnation do you think you're. doin&.PUrveer 
-Hal? Is -that a Goddaivned &a&y T>ak you've Got -there?
Vessir, it's MV Basy dafcu, and Hd appreciate 
rt if you wa+cfed your lanGuaGe;
-He's a-t such an ivpressionaBle a&e. y
6ut sir, he would die wrthcut ive! As citizens of our Great 
nation, we should feel coivpelled -to help -this poor frttle orphar\
We Must raise -this younG savage as ore of our own, 
-teachia& hkvi -to value tte lives of our sretteren! 
Today, sir, voe can toafce a difference!
"That was ready -touchirvb, -Ha! Corvee cn, 
v__ let's of feed -the IHrtle -tyke
Are you kiddn&? We've Got -to keep hirvi Good and 
kirv^rv for -the dOG fiGh-tr\G -toni&ht. We'll rvieke a kiliio&!
Ye Schwieriger Sie Sind Desto Farder Sie Beissen
OtlAicher: Der Denker Am Objekt (I don't object to his denking)
by: James Kenney (jim@dorkorg.com)
hey baby, why don't you 
make like a church 
numeral and succ it?
hmm, i appear to have 
been transformed into 
a three dimensional 
object ^ ^ j
*
behold my swollen 
^ goodness I
he's just so... %
bulbous
y
\T VS ALMOST CWfR.
I have a beautiful proof for 
the Strong Goldbach Conjecture, 
but this margin is too small 
to contain it.
+31 ir
4/7/99
n.
ByDanWier10Aii
r ^h4 Response. {(f Att~ 
i can se r4 CoftPSG fi.% (V H/^ppy h^No PUPPET
&crt a point. &ood work
THE
CHUMP!
better make the best 
of it by ridiculing
2cO er.-
Otl Aicher is a regular design legend of 
heroic proportions here in Switzerland.
He designed the singage system for the 
Olympics in Munich. I mean your pitiful 
life is nothing compared to good ole Oil's. 
Even if you did drive your 4 kids to soccer.
Otl was also a bit senile from all that
space travel, so he never could tell a joke 
without forgetting something. At age 65 
Otl lost his license, so the only driving 
pleasure he got was from his futuristic 
tractor he bought in the 4th dimension.
Otl had a life of woe and misfortune,
much like all great artists. Besides design, 
Otl's 2 true passions were landscaping and 
the 4th dimension. Otl regularly traveled 
to the 4th dimension, " I just flew in from 
the 4th dimension and boy are my arms."
After mowing the west side of his lawn, 
Otl would cross over the quiet street to 
mow the east side. One day he was hit by 
a car, his fragile body tossed from his seat 
the overturned tractor, exposed blade, his 
decapitated head rolling down the street.
Tuesda ysH i5 a5 WHY WOULD 
ONE MoRNiNG WiTHouT HE BE ANY
coffee in this house, better off 
S Someplace
I THINK WHAT ASkiNG HiM To 
YOURE 05/Lo i5 a5 5L3 H5*d/da 
r^W /E DNS3AY U/R85SR D54433F
\ I
REMARKABLE.
I SAT THROUGH TWo STAFF 
MEETINGS, A ISdbyi/HK
D5L43N3LD3 D^AAv n3R 
U/R8 ^ L3U DA/3LRv ^Lr
GAVE AN IMPROMPTU HALL| WAY SEMINAR ON KEY
2 Company strategies.
I
SEE? You DIDN'T HAVE 
A DRoP oF CoFFEE THIS 
MoRNiNG AND You 
WERE STILL 
A8LE To Do 
YouR i5BYt
WELL, AT ARouND 
I HOPE MM5, R8^R I WAS 
YOU IN THE WRoNG 
LEARNED BUILDING.
Ic
el $1
BJ3v Kf3NJ5L3Y
I'M OFF JO 
WORK.
U/E8 n3 ASDc U^c/Lo 
Sk R5r^J U/R85SR ^ 
0*oP OF COFFEE /L Hh 
BA55rY
SEE? WAK'NG up 
WASNT SolbUGH. 
ALSO, THE FRoNT 
DooR'S THIS WAY.
WU_, I HAT'Solum e94ue q56N:p bdRd1Nc tX0p s ,Is2 1C
v JUM+Serr. -Ckf?
EtTCH
R1w1W . gl.Iyl9: 
Too'f TV(aT YoO N9ietl TbiK BfCJc. 
That makes itwwi ^ 
HAlfn T&HME 
VA, Q>vjYR5Atioi'i.
-nte h@m ne

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
THE TARTAN Page Lu
The 2000 Pittsburgh Pirates Home Schedule
The final season in Three Rivers Stadium
April
11 Montreal @ 7:05 pm
12 Montreal @ 7:05 pm
13 Montreal @ 7:05 pm
14 New York @ 7:05 pm
15 New York @ 1:35 pm
16 New York @ 1:35 pm
May
I Cincinnati @ 7:05 pm
9 New York @ 7:05 pm
10 New York @ 7:05 pm
II New York @ 7:05 pm
12 Milwaukee @ 7:05 pm
13 Milwaukee @ 7:05 pm
June
2 Kansas City @ 7:05 pm
3 Kansas City @ 7:05 pm
4 Kansas City @ 1:35 pm
5 Detroit @ 7:05 pm
6 Detroit @ 7:05 pm
7 Detroit @ 7:05 pm
July
7 Minnesota @ 7:05 pm
8 Minnesota @ 7:05 pm
9 Minnesota @ 1:35 pm
21 Philadelphia @ 7:05 pm
22 Philadelphia @ 7:05 pm
23 Philadelphia @ 1:35 pm
August
1 Los Angeles @ 7:05 pm
2 Los Angeles @ 1:35 pm
11 Arizona @ 7:05 pm
12 Arizona @ 7:05 pm
13 Arizona @ 1:35 pm
25 Colorado @ 7:05 pm
September/October
8 Cincinnati @ 7:05 pm
9 Cincinnati @ 7:05 pm
10 Cincinnati @ 1:35 pm
11 St. Louis @ 7:05 pm
12 St. Louis @ 7:05 pm
13 St. Louis @ 7:05 pm
25San Diego@7:05pm14 Milwaukee @ 1:35 pm12Atlanta@7:05pm25Milwaukee @ 7:05 pm26Colorado @1:15pm26 Houston @ 7:05 pm
26San Diego@7:05pm13Atlanta@7:05pm26Milwaukee @ 7:05 pm27Colorado @ 1:35pm27 Houston @ 7:05 pm
27San Diego@1:35pm19 St. Louis @ 7:05 pm14Atlanta@7:05pm27Milwaukee @ 7:05 pm28 Houston @ 7:05 pm
20 St. Louis @ 7:05 pm15Atlanta@7:05pm28San Francisco @7:05 pm
28Cincinnati@7:05pm21 St. Louis @ 1:35 pmS;28San Diego @ 7:05 pm29San Francisco @7:05 pm29 Chicago @ 7:05 pm
29Cincinnati@1:35pm16Florida@7:05pm29San Diego @ 7:05 pm30San Francisco @7:05 pm30 Chicago @ 7:05 pm
30Cincinnati@1:35pm29 Florida @ 7:05 pm17Florida@7:05pm30San Diego @ 1:35 pm31San Francisco @1:35 pm1 Chicago @ 4:05 pm
30 Florida @ 7:05 pm18Florida@ 1:35pmAlissa Taylor/Art Staff
31 Florida @ 7:05 pm
27 Chicago @ 7:05 pm
28 Chicago @ 7:05 pm
29 Chicago @ 7:05 pmFor more information, visit the official Pirates web site at http://www.pirateball.com.
tdliectoresmusicon_____iwn
The Open Mind Monday Lecture Series continues today in the Adamson 
Wing beginning at 4:30 pm. This weeks 
speaker is biologist Robert Liburdy. He will 
discuss the recent charge and consequences 
of scientific misconduct against him.
The Carnegie Lecture Series contin
ues this week with Our Common Journey: 
Navigating the Sustainability Transition, 
presented by Robert W. Kates, a professor 
emeritus at Brown University. The presenta
tion begins tonight at 7 pm in the Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theater in Oakland. 
Admission is $3 for teachers, students and 
Carnegie members, and $5 for non-mem
bers.
The Department of Chemical Engineering Distinguished Research Lectureship Seines continues this Tuesday 
with Perspectives on the Synthesis of PlantWide Control Structures by Professor 
George Stephanopoulos, from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The 
talk will take place at 10:45 am in Doherty 
Hall 1112.
The ALCOA African-American Visiting Speaker Series presents 
Carnegie Mellon alumna Dr. Margaret 
Kanipes. She will be speaking this 
Wednesday from 5 to 6:30 pm in Breed Hall 
of the Margaret Morrison building.
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Seminar Series presents Admission Control 
Algorithms for Cellular Architectures, a 
talk by Jon Peha, CMU professor of 
Electrical and Computer Engineering. The 
talk will take place this Thursday from 4 to 5 
pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium, Room 125. 
Refreshments will be served at 3:30 pm.
The Center for African-American Urban Studies and the Economy
(CAUSE) presents Professor Robin D. G. 
Kelley of New York. Her talk, Misterioso: In 
Search of Thelonius Monk will take place 
this Friday in Breed Hall of the Margaret 
Morrison building beginning at 4 pm, with 
refreshments at 3:30 pm.
museums
The Andy Warhol Museum is currently exhibiting Andy Warhol 
Drawings 1942-1987. The exhibit runs 
through April 30 and is located on 117 
Sandusky Street. For more information or 
directions, call (412) 237-8300 or visit http://www. warhol.org.
The Three River Arts Festival Galleiy
presents Glenn Kainos Chasing Perfect, a 
collaborative exhibition. The exhibit runs 
through May 13. The gallerys hours are 
Monday through Friday, 11 am to 6 pm, and 
Saturday, 2 pm to 7 pm.
The two main galleries of the American Jewish Museum, located at 
5738 Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill, are re
created as an island paradise in which scores 
of original documentary photographs, con
temporary art, artifacts, sculpture, and 
graphic art will be on exhibit until 
Wednesday, May 31.
Thomas Salyers, principal trumpet in 
the Three Rivers Brass Quintet, presents his 
senior recital. It will take place today at 7 
pm in the Chapel of East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church.
Carnegie Mellons Concert Choir
performs Handels complete oratorio The 
Messiah under the direction of Robert 
Page and accompanied by a professional 
orchestra this Tuesday and Wednesday. 
The performances will take place in Kresge 
Theatre in the College of Fine Arts and they 
begin at 7:30 pm. Tickets are $4 for stu
dents and $5 for adults. For tickets, call 
(412) 268-2383.
3 Doors Down and The Nickelbacks
will be playing this Wednesday at Club Laga 
in Oakland. Doors open for the show at 7 
pm.
Orquesta Tropical will be performing 
this Wednesday at Chaunc/s in Station 
Square from 9 pm to 1 am. For more infor
mation, call (412) 232-0601.
The University of Pittsburghs Chamber Orchestra presents its final 
concert of the season this Wednesday. It 
will take place in the Bellefield Hall 
Auditorium in Oakland beginning at 8 pm. 
Admission is free.
Musikgarten, a revolutionary early 
childhood music education program, will 
sponsor a free seminar, introducing the 
Musikgarten program to music teachers 
and those interested in teaching music to 
young children. The three-hour seminar 
will be held this Saturday at the Center for 
Young Musicians in Wexford, from 2 to 5 
pm. For registration and information, call 
(800) 216-6864.
The University of Pittsburghs Department of Music presents J.S. 
Bachs St. Matthew Passion, this Saturday 
at 7 pm and Sunday at 3 pm, in celebration 
of the 250th anniversary of Bachs death. 
The concerts will take place at the Heinz 
Memorial Chapel in Oakland. Call (412) 
624-4125 for tickets, $3 for students and 
seniors and $5 for adults.
Anti-Flag is recording for a live album 
this Saturday at 4 pm and Sunday at 6pm at 
Cool Peppers Hot House in The Strip 
District. Segments from each set will appear 
on their upcoming live release this summer.
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh's final 
concert of the season features the German 
premiere of a new edition of Johannes 
Brahms A German Requiem. It will be per
formed on Sunday at Westminster 
Presbyterian Church, located at 2040 
Washington Road, Upper St. Clair at 7 pm. 
Tickets range from $5 to $18 and are avail
able from ProArts Ticket Service at (412) 
394-3353.
Lord Of The Dance will be performed 
at the Benedum Center from Wednesday, 
April 19 through Saturday, April 22. Shows 
are 8 pm each evening with a 2 pm show 
also on April 22. Tickets are $55.25 and 
$45.25, plus applicable fees. They are avail
able from the Benedum Center Box Office 
and all TicketMaster outlets, which may be 
reached at (412) 456-6666.
Student Senate Elections will be held this Monday, Tuesday, and 
Wednesday. Students can vote for the stu
dent body president, treasurer and senators 
for their college. For more information and 
candidate platforms, check the bboard cmu.student.government.
Cat Power and The Pacific Ocean
will be performing tonight in McConomy 
Auditorium of the University Center at 8 pm. 
Admission is $4 with CMU ID, $6 without.
A Spring 2000 Prayer and Praise Breakfast will take place this Tuesday 
from 8 to 9 am in the Danforth Lounge in the 
University Center. All are welcome.
President Jared Cohori will have an 
open office hour for students this Tuesday 
from 5 to 6 pm. Interested students should 
contact Dean Michael Murphy by email at 
mm I v@andrew. cmu.edu.
The University Art Gallery is honoring 
the Week of the Young Child with its display 
Celebrating the Many Languages of Young 
Children. The display runs through this 
Saturday. The Gallery is open Tuesdays, 
Thursdays, and Fridays from 11 am to 5 pm; 
Wednesdays from 11 am to 7 pm; and 
Saturdays from noon to 3 pm. For further 
information, please call the university infor
mation desk at (412) 268-2107.
Mathilde meets every Monday night 
from 5 to 6 pm in Skibo to converse in 
French. All speakers and levels are invited.
Spanish Table takes place every 
Tuesday from 11:30 am to 1 pm in Skibo 
Coffeehouse. All speakers and levels of 
Spanish are welcome.
Kaffeestunde is held every Tuesday 
from 3:30 to 5 pm in Skibo coffeehouse. All 
speakers of German are invited.
The Carnegie Library in Oakland
will hold a book discussion of Ernest 
Hemmingways The Sun Also Rises tonight. 
The discussion begins at 7 pm.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers will host Irelands Cinemagic. The series of new 
films for young people will be presented at 
the Filmmakers Regent Square theater this 
Saturday and Sunday. Admission per film 
for ages 17 and over is $5. For more infor
mation call (412) 263-2710.
The Carnegie Library Music and Art Depeatments in Oakland present 
Referents To, a display of CMU Graduate 
Student Art Exhibits. The exhibition runs 
through Sunday, April 30. Call (412) 622- 
3105 for more information.
The Whiskey Rebellion Toastmasters
meet every Wednesday evening from 7:00 to 
8:30 pm at the Magee Community Center, 
located at 745 Greenfield Avenue. For details 
and directions about this public speaking 
group, visit http://trfn.clpgh.org/speak, call 
(412) 481-0728, or send an email to hays@city-net.com .
religion
The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh, the largest Catholic singles 
group in Western Pennsylvania, sponsors a 
weekly volleyball night at St Edmunds 
Academy in Squirrel Hill every Wednesday 
evening at 8 pm. For more information, call 
(412) 766-6574 or (412) 341-4070.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sunday at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes place 
daily at 12:30 pm in the UC chapel. For 
more information, call the Ryan Catholic 
Newman Center at (412) 622-3379.
voxpopuli
official voice of Honus
Mummy, hes gone rotten!
Am I a man whore?
I talked to God and she says, 
yo, wassup"... and she 
wants you to lose the gun.
Shall we qo to COCKFOSwittle wee-wee boy just 
passed a mushroom
MY FAVORITE MARTAN,
FARTAN, PARTAN, DARTAN
rage on, my beauty queen
Comm to Morewood command:"I need a jitney. Stat!
its chilly! 
wanna buy a lily?
This wasn't about die individual, it was a 
team effort, and I'm the one who came up with 
the whole team idea.
Chapter 6: Esquela decided to take a break from her orifice troubles and go to Mexico for Spring Break. She went to Cancn and found a hotel for orificeless pigs. One day, while walking on the beach, she found a couple of loud college kids. She looked closely and saw that they were roasting a piece. Even worse, they had tequila and werent sharing it. She considered drowning herself in the Gulf of Mexico, but then realized that polyester innards kept her floating.
Aint it hard, ain't it hard 
to want somebody 
who doesn i want you...
-bh
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus communi
ty! To submit a vox, simply email it to 
lanan@andrew.cm.edu, send it to The Tartan, University 
Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. The comments 
in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan or any
body in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then youre

---------------------------------------------------

How Far Can You Bet in a Weekend?
Carnival 2000
Around the World
F5l*r:lAt *t
Thursday, April
9am-2pm
5-5:30pm 
5pm
5:30-6:00pm
6-7pm 
7pm
7-8pm 
TBA
9-1 Opm
10-11pm 
11pm 
11:45pm
13, 2000
Buggy Design Competition 
Opening Cermonies 
Midway and Rides Open 
Bagpipers 
Kiltie Band Concert 
Scotch N Soda Presents: 
Once Upon A Mattress 
Skankin Homers 
AB Films: Open Your Eyes 
Eddie lift 
Gary Greenburgh 
Midway closes 
Rides Close
Friday, April
8am 
8am-noon 
11am 
11am-3pm 
Noon 
2-3:30pm 
3pm 
7pm
TBA
8-9pm 
9:30-11pm 
11pm 
11:45pm
Saturday, April
8am
8am-noon
10am-1pm
11am
11am-6pm
11:30am-1:20pm
Noon-1:30pm
Noon
1-3pm 
2pm 
2pm
2-4pm 
4pm
4-6pm
6pm
6-7pm
6:30pm
TBA
8pm
9:30-11pm 
10:45pm
14, 2000
Buggy Qualifying Races 
Alumni Welcome Tent 
Midway and Rides Open 
Alumni Open House 
6th Annual Mobot Slalom Race 
Orquesta Tropical
The 15th Gate: Mobot Awards Cermony 
Scotch N Soda Presents:
Once Upon A Mattress
AB Films: Galaxy Quest
Wade 
Buzz Poets 
Midway Closes 
Rides Close
15, 2000
Buggy Sweepstakes Races 
Alumni Welcome Tent 
Carnival Brunch School of Architecture 
Midway and Rides Open 
Family Entertainment
Black Alumni Association Planning Meeting 
SURG Alumni Lunch
Carnegie Mellon Varsity Soccer vs Almuni 
Acapella Concert
Carngeie Mellon Varsity Soccer vs Alumni 
Strangefolk
All Alumni Reunion Party 
Scotch N Soda Presents:
Once Upon A Mattress
Family Comedians 
Midway Closes 
Awards Cermony 
Ritual Space Travel Agency 
AB Films: Galaxy Quest
Scotch N Soda Presents:
Once Upon A Mattress
The Buddy Brown Show 
Rides Close
Weigand Gym 
Entranceway
Entranceway 
Main stage 
Rangos Hall
Side stage
McConomy Auditorium 
Main Stage 
Main Stage
Tech/Frew/Schenley Drive 
Buggy Finish Line
Alumni House 
Wean Hall Patio 
Main Stage
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 
Rangos Hall
McConomy Auditorium 
Main Stage 
Main Stage
Tech/Frew/Schenley Drive 
Buggy Finish Line 
CFA 201
Roving
Porter Hall A18A 
TBA
Gesling Stadium 
Main Stage 
Gesling Stadium 
CFA Lawn 
CFA Lobby/Patio 
Rangos Hall
Side Stage
Main Stage 
Side Stage
McConomy Auditorium 
Rangos Hall
Main Stage
check out the Spring Carnival website at http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/org/carnival

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Attention Seniors - Class of 2000!
Have you started to 
think about life after 
Carnegie Mellon?
Class of 2000 
Reunion Committee 
Meeting
Tuesday, April 25, 5:00p.m. 
Alumni House 
(across from the UC)
Dinner will be provided.
After Commencement, your 
class will be forever known as 
the Class of 2000. Your 
reunions will be times to share 
your accomplishments and 
reminisce about the great times 
at Carnegie Mellon. You need 
to work toward a great 50th 
reunion now by participating 
on your Reunion Committee.
Come and learn more about this 
fun volunteer experience and 
start now to sustain a lifelong 
relationship with your friends 
and classmates! Please RSVP to 
Holly Gordon at 
ligordon@andrew.cmu.edu or 
268-8451.
Carnegie Mellon ALUMNI
Youre Invited!
The Carnegie Mellon Alumni Association invites the Class 
of 2000 to the All-Alumni Reunion Party on Saturday, 
April 15,2-4 p.m. at the CFA Lobby/Patio. Come and 
enjoy this FREE reception and catch up with your friends 
from the classes of 1990-2000. Please RSVP for this 
event to Holly Gordon at hgordon@andretv.cmu.edu or 
268-8451 by Wednesday, April 12th.
The Reunion 
wont be the same 
without U!
Also, dont forget to stop by the Alumni Association Tent 
at the Buggy finish line Friday and Saturday morning to 
enjoy FREE donuts, hot chocolate, and coffee. We look 
forward to seeing you there!
Welcome Back Alumni!Carneirie Mellon ALUMNI
FRIDAY, APRIL 148 a.m.-NoonAlumni Welcome Tent*
Buggy Finish LineTune in to WRCT (88.3 FM) or on the web at www.wrct.org for live heat-by-heat coverage
11 a.m.-3 p.m.Alumni House Open House*
Alumni House
11 a.m.PiKA Alumni Welcome Brunch & Open House
PiKA House
NoonMidway Opens
Morewood Parking Lot
Noon6m Annual MOBOT Slalom Races
Wean Hall Sidewalk
3 p.m.The 15,h Gate: MOBOT 
Awards Ceremony & Wrap-up
Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
7 p.m.Scotch n Soda Theatre 
Presents Once Upon A Mattress"
Rangos Ballroom
SATURDAY, APRIL 15
8 a.m.-NoonAlumni Welcome Tent*
Buggy Finish LineTune in to WRCT (88.3 FM) or on the web at www.wrct.org for live heat-by-heat coverage
10 a.m. PiKA Annual Alumni Brunch, Open House
& Photo Session
PIKA House
10a.m.-1 p.m. School of Architecture Brunch
CFA - Room 201
11:30 a.m.- Black Alumni Association Planning Meeting
1:20 p.m. Porter Hall A18A
Noon Midway Opens
Morewood Parking Lot
Noon-1:30 p.m. SURG Alumni Lunch
Wright Room
Noon & 2 p.m. Carnegie Mellon Varsity Soccer vs. Alumni
Gesling Stadium
2-4 p.m. All-Alumni Reunion Party*
CFA Lobby/Patio(with dass ol 1995 & 1999 - 5" and 1SI Reunions) Everyone is welcome!
3 p.m. Tartan Alumni Open House
University Center 314
7 p.m. Scotch n Soda Theatre
Presents Once Upon A Mattress"
Rangos Ballroom
* Events sponsored by the Alumni Association.

---------------------------------------------------

How Far Can You Get in a WeekendP
rm Spring Carnival 2000
te'Around the World
Plot/Organization Theme
1 JCC Japan
2 SDC - Morewood Camelot
3 HillelAspects of Israel
4 SWEThe Alps
5 JFCWhere in the world
can you find God?
6 Circle K
7 Sigma Alpha EpsilonTransylvania
8 FringeNew Orleans
9 Sigma NuDeep Sea
10 Kappa Kappa GammaAncient Mayans
11 MayurGrenada, Spain
12 Singapore Student AssociationRustic Asia
13 SpiritStatue of Liberty
14 Kappa Delta RhoPittsburgh Point
15 Phi Kappa ThetaWild West
16 Delta UpsilonAncient Egypt
17 Delta GammaNetherlands
18 Tawainese StudentAssociationTaiwan
19 Asian StudentAssociationAlaska
20 Kappa SigmaBolonga, Italy
21 SIAMThailand
22 Sigma Phi EpsilonIncas
23 Zeta Psi SigmaThe Hanging Gardens
of Babylon
24 Kappa Alpha ThetaLondon
25 PioneersCape Canaveral
26 BarCrazeBarCraze
27 Sigma Tau GammaMorroco
28 Alpha Epsilon PiEaster Island
29 KGBSputnik
30 Delta Delta DeltaJapanese Rock Garden
31 Delta Tau DeltaTibet
M

---------------------------------------------------

Ts1r 
Aalruc
Music: Ritual Space Travel Agency6:30pm Side Stage
pL1c hsr4 1c ,I1ul 41eelmlru em9i i9cu 9uLlm hsr4cd pLlml 1re2Ilrtlc c&mls4 9alm s w14l msrnl 
9e iIc1ts2 us2lrucW em9i $msrR Zs&&s u9 62C sr4 uLl $si12C 6u9rld xe C9I hm1rn s t9m&cl u9 uLl1m 
cL9wcW C9I uC&1ts22C nlu emll s4i1cc19rW hIu c1rtl uL1c cL9w 1c emll srCwsCW x 49r8u l.&ltu uLsu u9 hl s 
&m9h2lid T9cu 9e uLl estuc Rr9wr sh9Iu uL1c hsr4 sml r9u s&&m9&m1sul isulm1s2 u9 hl &m1rul4 1r uL1c 
&s&lmW c9 2lu8c 0Icu csC C9I822 Lsal u9 t9il cll uLli u9 e1r4 9Iu wLsu uLlC8ml mls22C s22 sh9Iud
Music: The Buddy Brown Show9:30pm Main Stage
x Rr9w wLsu C9I8ml uL1rR1rnGLsu R1r4 9e hsr4 rsil 1c uLsuE pL1c 9rl msrRc I& uLlml w1uL 
6umswhlmmC 52smi v29tRW hIu 49r8u hl e992l4z pL1c hsr4 Lsc Ls4 uLl &2lscIml 9e &lme9mi1rn w1uL cItL 
wl22GRr9wrc sc pLl T1nLuC T1nLuC o9ccu9rlcW M1alW gll2 o1n $1cLW sr4 $Il2d pLl hsr4 hlnsr w1uL 
vLm1c A4wsm4c (2ls4 a9ts2DnI1usm)W g9h Nstl (4mIic) sr4 TsmR 6s129m (hscc) sc q1a14 7mlCW hIu wlml 
r9u ,I1ul cluu2l4 9r l1uLlm uLl rsil 9m tImmlru &2sClmcd $1rs22C 1r B//_ uLlC wlml 091rl4 hC Slee 
ArnhsmuL (a9ts2DnI1usm)W sr4 1r1u1sul4 uLl1m rlw hsr4 w1uL uLl tImmlru rsild
pLl hsr48c iIc1ts2 cuC2l Lsc hllr 4lP
ctm1hl4 sc L1nLGlrlmnCW il2941tW i94lmr m9tRd 
pLl tImmlru ilihlmc &m9a14l ,I1ul s asm1luC 9e 
1re2Ilrtlc uLsu s22 isrsnl u9 h2lr4 u9nluLlm u9 
e9mi c9iluL1rn u9us22C 41eelmlru em9i C9Im lalmCP
4sC hsr4d pLl hsr4 tml41uc uLl1m lr9mi9Ic 
cIttlcc c9 esm w1uL uLl1m Ir4lr1sh2C tsutLC 
uIrlc sr4 mlemlcL1rn2C lrlmnlu1t cusnl &mlcP
lrtl sr4 w9r4lmeI2 clrcl 9e LIi9md pL1c 1c s 
cL9w C9I822 hl R1tR1rn C9Imcl2e e9m 1e C9I i1cc 1uz
How far Can Vou Get in a Weekend?
Spring Carnival
Around the World
Scotch N Soda Presents Once Upon a Mattress4pm and 8pm Rangos Hall
b2lscl cll &mla19Ic &snl e9m s 4lctm1&u19r sr4 cL9wu1ilcd

---------------------------------------------------

How far Can Ynn Cel in a Weekend?
Spring Carnival 200
Around the World
elcome
Spring break is barely behind us; the end of the semes
ter is near, yet the year is not complete; Spring Carnival is 
upon us. Once again the Morewood parking lot has been trans
formed, and I would like to invite the entire campus commu
nity to Spring Carnival 2000. How far can you get in a week
end? How much can you see? There are only so many hours 
of booth, buggy, and bands.
This year features an expanded selection of entertain
ment, the return of a side stage and WRCT to the midway, as 
well as the continued participation of organizations in booth 
and a growing number of blitz booths. It will be an exciting 
weekend full of comedians and some of the hottest local bands. 
The diverse schedule of events draws on influences from 
around the world.
It is important to recognize the people who have helped 
me put this weekend together. They have all sacrificed a sub
stantial amount of their time and now can take pride in the 
success of a weekend that owes a great deal to their efforts. 
It has taken nearly a full year of meetings both early in the 
morning and late at night to prepare for Carnival 2000. I would like to extend a special 
thanks to the staffs of Student Activities, Facilities Management Services, Environmental 
Health and Safety, Parking Services, Campus Police, and all of the people who have 
worked on booth.
I hope that everyone en]oys their journey around the world, as I am confident that 
there is something for everyone.
Spring Carnival Chair 
Matthew Silverstein
Spring Carnvial Committee would like to thank: Activities Board, APhiO, Bob Anderegg, 
Devonshire Rd. neighbors, EMS, FMS, Deb 
Hamlin, Patty Stacer, Barb Kviz, Chief 
LaPaglia, Paula Sokol, Jay Marano, Michael 
Murphy, Morewood Gardens and Garage 
Permit Holders, Denise Fazio, Anne Witchner, 
Marilyn Pipes, Jennifer Church, SDC, Student 
Senate, The Tartan,WRCT, Dave Wessel, Tim 
Michael, Anita Barkin, James Orso, Lisa 
Defrank-Cole, Kyle Tomer and International 
Festival.
Spring Carnival 2000 Supplement 
Written and Designed By:
Michelle Kruvczuk 
Daisy Church
Table
vsmr1as2 v9ii1uulldddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&"
pLImc4sC Aalrucdddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&
$m14sC Aalrucdddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&_
6suIm4sC Aalrucdddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&'
6suI4sC Aalruc v9ru1rIl4dddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&B'
Ts&dddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&1 B
6tLl4I2lddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd&1 #

---------------------------------------------------

How Far Can You Got in a Weekend?____,
Spring Carnival ^ aAAYY
Around the World
Midway
Chair: Susan Swithenbank 
Asst: Erica Israeisky, Iris Colon (not shown) 
The Midway Committee is responsible 
for dealing with all the booth chairs 
year long, working with them to en
sure all booth aspects of Carnival run 
smoothly.
Telecommunications
Chair: Jim Foraker 
Jim makes sure everyone on Mid
way has a radio and knows how to 
use it. Heres a haiku for Jim:
Gets us radios 
Telecommunications 
is a lengthy word
Operations
Chair: Jason Chalecki 
The Operations Chair ensures that all 
goes well on Midway during Carnival. He 
also performs many duties throughout 
the year that prepare for the hours when 
the booths are open, the rides are 
running, and the students, faculty, and 
guests are enjoying Carnival.
Security
Chair: Ridzwan Nordin 
Asst: Katie Warren 
Security keeps everyone in line during 
Carnival, helping to promote a safe experi
ence for all involved. Security also orga
nizes Midway watch teams who help the 
police keep Midway crime free.
Power & Safety
Chair: Pete Boettcher 
The Power and Safety Chair makes 
sure everyone working on Midway 
gets trained on how to use power 
tools and wire electricity in the booths. 
Pete did a wonderful job making sure 
everyone had a safe and emergency 
room free time.
Parking
Chair: Tim Warneck 
Asst: Melissa Stupka
Each year the Parking Committee prepares to 
deal with the onslaught of hundreds of drivers 
wanting to know why there is a Ferris Wheel in 
their spot. They work to coordinate with valet 
services to make sure everyone has a place 
to park.
Advisor:
Denise Fazio 
Denise helped to make 
sure we all stayed sane 
throughout the harrowing 
planning of Carnival, and 
made sure we did our 
best to get Carnival up 
and running.
Entertainment
Chair: William Holtz 
Asst: Brigitte Joffe, Brooke 
Rosenthal 
The Entertainment Commit
tee finds different venues of 
bands, comedians, and 
local talents.
AB Tech
Chairs: Kevin Miller, Megin Wardle 
From bands to comedians to the 
Awards Ceremony, AB Tech is there 
running the show.
Environmental
Chair: Rhonda Forrester 
The Environmental Commit
tee ensures that wood and 
other Carnival materials are 
properly recycled and 
reused. Rhonda also works 
with Midway judges to 
determine the environmental 
scoring for each booth.
Rides
Chair: Mike Greaves (not shown) 
The Rides Chair schedules the 
amusements for carnival, hires 
ticket sellers and submits permits 
to the City of Pittsburgh.
Publicity
Chair: Michelle Kruvczuk 
Asst: Daisy Church 
Publicity is in charge of designing 
and securing the Carnival 
paraphernalia. We are also in charge 
of publicizing the event and bringing 
you this informative carnival Insert.
Entranceway
Chairs: Erica Israeisky, Shaina 
McGrath
Entranceway works with architects 
and designers to create a struc
ture to symbolize this year's 
theme and welcome Carnival 
guests to the fun that awaits 
beyond.

---------------------------------------------------

How Far Can You Bet in a Weekend?
\rW Spring Carnival 2000
Around the World\.y
Ts1r
Aalruc
Buggy Sweepstakes Final Races
8am Tech/Frew/Schenley Dr.
pLl 6wll&cusRlc hInnC mstlc Lsal hllr Ll24 su vT! c1rtl TsC B/W B/#'d Llr uLlC e1mcu 
cusmul4 uLl hInn1lc wlml h9.C alL1t2lc 9&lmsul4 hC s uw9Gisr ulsid pLl e1mcu mlt9m4l4 u1il wsc 
&2stl4 1r B/#B wLlr 29us 61nis Fl2us tsil 1r e1mcu &2stl w1uL uLl w1rr1rn u1il 9e "XU8d 61rtl uLlr 
6wll&cusRlc Lsc hlt9il sr srrIs2 ums41u19r 4Im1rn 6&m1rn vsmr1as2 sr4 hInnC Lsc Ir4lmn9rl 
c9il is09m tLsrnlcd
Vrl uL1rn uLsu Lsc mlis1rl4 IrtLsrnl4 1c uLl &scc19r e9m hInnCd Vmnsr1ysu19rc 4la9ul 
t9Iru2lcc L9Imc e9miI2su1rn 4lc1nrcW hI1241rnW sr4 &mstu1t1rn m9221rn sr4 &IcL1rn uLl1m hInn1lcd pLlC 
cstm1e1tl c2ll&W ctL992 w9mRW sr4 lalmCuL1rn l2cl u9 &mstu1tl 4Im1rn uLl Irn942C lsm2C wllRlr4 L9Imc 
sr4 uLl 2sul c&m1rn lalr1rncd 5ml wl tmsyC u9 49 1uE l:4 hl tmsyC r9u u9d Vmnsr1ysu19rc &ml&sml Clsm 
29rn e9m uw9G&2Ic i1rIulc 9e r1masrsW sr4 uLsu uw9G&2Ic i1rIulc 1c wl22 w9muL uLl lee9mud
Acapella Concert
lpm Main Stage
pL1c Clsm wl sml &2lscl4 u9 Lsal vsmrln1l Tl229r8c 9wr 69Ir4hCul sr4 Vm1n1rs2c 091rl4 hC 
uw9 nm9I&c em9i 9Iuc14l uLl !r1almc1uC u9 &lme9mi e9m Ic su vsmra1s2d xu8c ,I1ul s i1.uIml 9e a91tlc sr4
cuC2lcW s22 nIsmsrull4 u9 &2lscld 1uL cItL s asm1luCW C9I8ml cIml u9 Llsm c9iluL1rn C9I 21RlzMusic: Strangefolk2pm CFA lawn
6umsrnle92R 1c hm9InLu u9 C9I hC 5o 
v9rtlmucd pLlC cusmul4 9ee 1r B//B w1uL 0Icu 
uw9 ilihlmcW gl14 7lrsIlm (2ls4 a9ts2cW 
mLCuLi nI1usm) sr4 S9r pmseu9r (2ls4 nI1usmW 
hstRGI& a9ts2c)W &2sC1rn n1nc 1r 
t9eellcL9&c su uLl !r1almc1uC 9e qlmi9ru 
e9m # hItRc s &9& sr4 s emll ils2d pLlC 
t2scc1e1l4 uLlicl2alc sc s e92R hsr4W hIu 
uLmlw 1r s t9I&2l cIm&m1cl leeltu uLsu is4l 
1u c9Ir4 s 21uu2l h1u cumsrnlm uLsr r9mis2 e92R 
iIc1td Amn9X 6umsrnle92Rd 5 Clsm 2sulm uLlC 
wlml 091rl4 hC Am1R 729tR2lm (hscc)W sr4 
MIRl 6i1uL (4mIic)dpLl1m &9&I2sm1uC 1c r9w 
c&mls41rn sc uLl nm9I& Lsc r9w ml2lscl4 
U vF8c sr4 u9Iml4 s22 9alm uLl t9IrumCd 
6umsrnle92R Lsc mlis1rl4 s hsr4 4l41tsul4 c9rnwm1u1rn sr4 u9Im1rnW s2wsCc &m94It1rn ,Is21uC 
c9rn 2Cm1tc sr4 lrlmnlu1t iIc1td l8ml &2lscl4 uLsu uLlC t9I24 e1r4 u1il 1r uLl1m Lltu1t ctLl4I2l (wl 
s22 Rr9w wLsu uLsu8c 21Rlz) u9 t9il lrulmus1r Ic w1uL uLl1m Ir1,Il iIc1ts2 cuC2l sr4 e2s1md F9r8u i1cc 9Iu 
9r uL1c 9rlz
{}

---------------------------------------------------

VISIT: www.cmu.edu/dining
Student Dormitory Council and Dining Services Presents: 
Display Cooking with Executive Chefs 
Every Wednesday Night @ Dinner
4/12 - Sesame Chicken or Sesame Broccoli + Tofu
4/19 - Crepe Bar + Pasta Asiago
4/26 - Omelets
5/3 - Wraps + Banana Split
5/10 - Wing Bar + Pasta Arbiatia
Interested in helping to redesign Highlander? Want to hang out in a nostalgic 
diner with a jukebox playing and see walls decked out with CMU memorabalia? 
Join CDNA - Coalition for Dining's New Atmosphere
Comments and concerns about Dining on Campus??? Fill out comment cards located throughout Dining locations on campus or post to graffiti.food. Join the Student Dormitory Council Food Committee!!!
Christine Blankertz Email: cab2@andrew.cmu.edu
Student Dormitory Council Food Chair Call: 8-MENU

---------------------------------------------------

DANCE ParT(uut^f* ue:eep-u:eef
Ba(sn^ h(a ur Ustsh uu huurk n Ms^ef*!and listen to our EXCLUSIVE broadcast of Buggy!

---------------------------------------------------

How far Can You Bet in a Weekend?_____ A Main
Spring Carnival 2000JSSm>
Around the World t VG11 IS
Kiltie Band Concert6pm Main Stage
pLl k12u1l osr4 Ll2&c R1tR 9ee 6&m1rn vsmr1as2 uL1c Clsm w1uL uLl1m srrIs2 t9rtlmu 9r T14wsCd xu8c r9rP
cu9& R12u wlsm1rn wstR1rlccz
Scotch N Soda Presents Once Upon a Mattress7pm Rangos Hall
xe C9I uL9InLu C9I Rrlw uLl cu9mC 9e pLl bm1rtlcc sr4 pLl blsWH C9I isC hl 1r e9m s h1n cIm&m1clz
F14 C9I Rr9wW e9m 1rcusrtlW uLsu uLl bm1rtlcc stuIs22C cwsi uLl i9su u9 mlstL uLl bm1rtlE Vm uLsuW 1r 
estuW 1u wscr8u uLl &ls su s22 uLsu tsIcl4 uLl &m1rtlcc s c2ll&2lcc r1nLuE pL1c L12sm19Ic iIc1ts2 s4s&usP
u19r 9e uLl esi9Ic es1mC us2l 1c e122l4 w1uL t9il4C sr4 u9&&l4 w1uL s u9ItL 9e m9isrtld v9il cll 
6t9utL N8 694s:c mlr41u19r 9e HVrtl !&9r 5 TsuumlccH 1r gsrn9c fs22 1r uLl !r1almc1uC vlrulmd 
6L9wu1ilc sml pLImc4sCW 5&m12 BU su _&iW $m14sCW 5&m12 B" su _&i sr4 6Ir4sCW 5&m12 B su "&i sr4 
8&id vLsrtlc smlW C9I:22 rlalm 299R su es1mC us2lcW 9m &lsc e9m uLsu isuulmW ,I1ul uLl csil wsC sns1rd
Mfjsic: Skankin Homers7pm Side Stage
5i9rn uLl 29ts2 us2lru elsuIml4 uL1c Clsm su 6&m1rn vsmr1as2 1c uLl 6RsrR1r f9ilmcd 5 e1al ilihlm 
cRsD&IrR hsr4 9e hImnL rsu1alc w1uL s Lls2uLC 9hclcc19r e9m uLl 61i&c9rcd v9il 9rW uLlC Lsal s 
c9rn ts22l4 9I24 9I 6u122 M9al Tl xe x sc $sud 9I tsr8u i1cc uL1c 9rlz
Comedian: Eddie Ifft
9pm Main Stage
5eulm nms4Isu1rn w1uL s 4lnmll 1r b921u1ts2 6t1lrtlW Clc uLsu wsc 
b921u1ts2 6t1lrtlW A441l xeeu Lsc usRlr u9 uLl cusr4GI& t9il4C 
ctlrl 1r Nlw 9mR t1uCd fl &lme9mic 1r asm1Ic t2Ihc sr4 Lsc lalr 
cusmml4 1r s elw t9iilmt1s2c sr4 uLl e12i Colin Fitz. v9il Llsm 
9rl 9e Nlw 9mR8c C9Irnlcu t9il41src c&122 uLl hlsrc sh9Iu wLsu 
1u8c really 21Rl 1r 6lrsuld
Comedian: Gary Greenberg10pm Main Stage
7smC 7mllrhlmn Lsc hllr 4lctm1hl4 sc s t9i1t wL9 
29alc uLl cImmls2d 5&&smlru2C Ll Lsc L1c I&hm1rn1rn u9 
uLsrR e9m uL1cW sc L1c &smlruc 21Rl4 u9 l.&9cl L1i u9 uLl 
IrIcIs2W cItL sc 21elGc1yl isrrl,I1rc L9&&1rn sm9Ir4 
uLl 21a1rn m99i 9r l2ltum1t &9n9 cu1tRcd fl8c s t9wm1ulm 
e9m v9il4C vlrums28c pLl Fs12C 6L9wW sr4 Lsc wm1uulr 
uw9 h99RcW Self-Helpless sr4 The Pop-Up Book Of 
Phodias. 5r4 0Icu 299R su uLl &1tuImlW C9I Rr9w uL1c 1c 
n91rn u9 hl n994z 7smC 7mllrhlmn 1c hm9InLu u9 C9I hC 
5o v9il4C sr4 6&m1rn vsmr1as2d

---------------------------------------------------

How Far Gan You fiat in a Weekend?___
r. Spring Carnival 2000[
Around the World
Ts1r
Aalruc
6th Annual Mobot Races12pm Sidewalk outside of Wean Hall
$9m  Clsmc r9wW cuI4lruc Lsal hI12u uLl1m 9wr i9h12l m9h9uc sr4 mstl4 uLli sns1rcu lstL 9uLlm 1r 
uLl 5rrIs2 T9h9u 62s29i gstld pL1c Clsm s rlw lalru 1c hl1rn s44l4 u9 uLl t9i&lu1u19rW uLl 
g9h9S9IcuW 4Im1rn wL1tL i9h9u t9i&lu1u9mc tsr &smu1t1&sul 1r s Lls4G9r t9rulcu u9 cll wL1tL tsr 
nlu &scu uLl 9uLlm u9 uLl1m e1r1cL 21rl e1mcud xu8c r9rGcu9& i9h9u eIrz
Orquesta Tropical3pm Main Stage
5c s &m9i9u19r e9m uLl 1rulmrsu19rs2 $lcu1as2 9r Msu1r 5ilm1ts sr4 uLl vsm1hhlsrW Vm,Ilcus pm9&1ts2 
w122 hl elsuIml4 su 6&m1rn vsmr1as2d pL1c 29ts2 hsr4 w122 Lsal C9I 4srt1rn u9 uLl1m L9u Msu1r iIc1tz 7lu 
9r C9Im ellu sr4 nlu mls4C e9m uLl xrulmrsu19rs2 $lcu1as2 wL1tL w122 hl 1r Vtu9hlmz
Scotch N Soda Presents Once Upon a Mattress
7pm Rangos Hall
b2lscl cll &mla19Ic &snl e9m s 4lctm1&u19r sr4 cL9wu1ilcd
Music: Buzz Poets, opened by Wade
8pm Main Stage
om9InLu u9 C9I hC 6Fv sr4 6&m1rn vsmr1as2W uL1c hsr4 
4shh2lc 1r 0Icu sh9Iu srC R1r4 9e nlrml C9I tsr uL1rR 
? 9ed $m9i &1sr9 hs22s4c u9 Tsm12Cr Tsrc9r uC&l tL9P
mIclcW uLlC Lsal 1rum94Itl4 s olsu2lc ilrus21uC u9 
t9ruli&9msmC iIc1td pLl1m iIc1t c&lsRc umIl u9 uLl1m 
c9rncW msuLlm uLsr wLsulalm Ls&&lrc u9 hl &9&I2sm su 
uLl u1ild pLl oIyy b9luc wlml uLl B/// Amr1l os22D 
sm&l4 p9Im xrulmrsu19rs2 osuu2l 9e uLl osr4c vLsi&1P
9rcW sr4 Lsal u9Iml4 uLl lsculmr !6 sr4 vsrs4s w1uL 
uLl // qsrc sm&l4 p9Imd pLlC:al c924 9alm B'W''' 
mlt9m4c sr4 Lsal lalr hllr 1rt2I4l4 1r pLl olcu 9e 
uLl b1uuchImnL XG$12lc B///W /8W sr4 /_d pL1c &lme9mP
isrtl &m9i1clc u9 Lsal s 21uu2l c9iluL1rn e9m lalmCP
9rlW sr4 u9 hl ,I1ul s msml l.&lm1lrtl e9m s22 1ra92al4d
