f't.ec o/^cC
'be Xlartan
VOL. I, No. 4PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14, 1906PRICE FIVE CENTS
Surface Hardening of Aluminum. A Review of the Athletic Situation.
By A. J. Wurts.
It was in April, 1898'I was investigating the properties of an aluminum 
cell as a rectifier. The electrolite was 
dilute sulphuric acid. For several 
days I had noticed the beautiful satinlike surface of the aluminum plates 
and it occurred to me that these 
might make useful wTriting tablets. I 
had doubts, however, as to whether 
pencil marks could be easily erased 
without marring the surface. However, I determined to try the experiThe editors of The Tartan feel that 
it is their duty at this time to put 
Defore the entire student body the 
athletic Situation and the relation 
which each department must bear in 
financial and executive ways to the 
various teams. The night students, 
as a body, feel that they are willing 
to back the association in all things; 
but yet they are a bit skeptical of the 
day students, feeling, perhaps, they 
do not get or will not get an equal 
chance for nositions on the school
''''S'&
'sfy/C'l'P' % -t 1 ' f f i *- t. -y~- ' ' t +
lasts' / 7 'y * 'y
* afi -u/
/
/ ?/'
ment, and having washed one of the 
plates, proceeded to use it as a writing tablet and then to erase the marks 
with a pencil eraser. Great was my 
surprise on observing that not only 
were the pencil marks removed, but 
that the satiny surface of the aluminum was not in any way disfigured. 
With almost any other metal, a pencil eraser would Lave scratched or 
streaked the surface.
These results naturally aroused my 
curiosity, and upon pushing my invesContinued on page 2.
teams. Others feel that they have 
not tthe time during the day to practice, and a practice hour should be 
set at such time that they would have 
an opportunity to show their ability. 
The day students feel they are ready 
to sit down and watch the night men 
play, in their positions, providing 
they are more capable and better 
men in those positions. But yet they 
feel that in the more prominent of 
sports, such as base-ball, and foot-ball, 
it is absolutely essential that team
Continued on page 3.
A SOLILOQUY.
In the current number of 'The Tartanappears an article by Professor 
Wurts on 'Surface Hardening of 
Alumnium.' Within the purely scientific significance of the results there 
cited lies a neatly bundled text for a 
lay-sermon, to the end that eyes were 
made to see withal and that heads 
were not designed by the great Architect exclusively for hat blocks. It is 
a prevalent but not highly productive 
opinion among young men that eyes 
were bestowed upon them for the 
mere purpose of getting into and getting out of trouble. That is a heritage 
from their cave and tree-dwelling 
ancestry.
The main difference, after all, between genius and mediocrity is that 
genius sees everything and sees the 
significance in everything.
Nature has few real secrets; she 
likes to scatter her wonders under the 
very noses of men, secure in the conviction that tho they havfe eyes, they 
see not.
And then after one has seen, let one 
think. Hundreds saw the same things 
that Professor Wurts observed, with 
results, in this specific instance, but 
their eyes worked with the stolid 
mechanical indifference of the camera, 
and their brains never got the picture 
to examine.
Men who do world-startling things 
are men who see what the world looks 
at and does not see. They have not 
infrequently picked from the rubbish 
heap, ideas that others have blindly 
discarded, torn off their rough disguises, and added a name to the peerage of science.
There is a small but exceedingly 
subtle instrument known to Physicists 
as the Seismograph, belonging to the 
detective force maintained by scientific authorities. Its business is to 
detect and record earth-quake tremors, 
when mother-earth now and then distorts her face in the pangs of cosmic 
colic. To play its little part it must 
be always alert and ready, for nature 
not always sends advance notices of
Continued on page 5.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley
Estimates 
Given 
for 
School
and
Club
Dinners.
R. W. MEDICK,
' OAKLANDMeat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
3804 FORBES ST.
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
HASTINGS & VOIGT,
Hatters and Furnishers
6121 Penn Avenue, E. E.
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONES-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Sooflng and Jot Work promptly done
Improved Midget Gas Furnaces 
3809 FIFTH AVENUE.
SURFACE HARDENING OE ALUMINUM.
Continued from page 1. tigations further I found that even 
with a knife blade it took considerable force to make any impression upon 
the treated surfaces, whereas, with 
the lightest possible pressure, the 
same instrument would scratch and 
deface the untreated surfaces.
Having thus convinced myself that 
I had really made a discovery and 
found a method for hardening aluminum surfaces, I was much exercised as 
to how these results had been obtained, for the plate which I had used had 
been taken at random from a considerable number of plates, each of which 
had received a treatment different 
from all the others. It thus became 
necessary to repeat my previous work, 
testing after each step to ascertain 
whether the hardening had been accomplished. This investigation, 
however, proved more simple than I 
had anticipated, for it quickly developed that it was only necessary to 
pass a direct current of suitable density between aluminum plates immersed in dilute sulphuric acid when 
the anode would become surface hardened. In appearance the surface was 
like frosted silver, making an attractive finish for almost any purpose.
Having made such a discovery and 
realizing its importance in nearly all 
branches of the aluminum industry, I 
naturally sought patent office protection, but on applying for a patent, 
imagine my astonishment on being
confronted with a reference to an obscure book written long before the 
commercial production of aluminum. 
The description cited was short, consisting of but a single paragraph, but 
in these few words it described the 
very process which I had discovered. 
Knowing, however, that manufacturers 
of aluminum had long been seeking 
just such results as these, I determined 
if possible to sell the information, and 
in stating my case to the producers, I 
frankly gave all the facts, presented 
samples for test and called attention 
to my experience in applying for a 
patent. These negotiations resulted
in a contract on a royalty basis for my 
secret. Prom that time until recently, when the contract expired
owing to certain publications which 
have made the process public property, 
I have been paid a royalty on the 
aluminum surface-hardening process.------o-------
A Good Time.
The Western University of Pennsylvania invited the 1908 class to the 
football game between teams representing W. U. P. and W. V. U. The 
fellows enjoyed the game immensely, 
and the frequent cheers by W. U. P. 
for Tech, and by Tech for W. U. P. 
showed that a good feeling exists between the schools.-------o------
'Let me say before I think of it'' 
Bear.
Mr. Garber wears a preoccupied air 
of late. He is writing a treatise on 
'The Introduction of Billy Goats Into 
Naval Warfare.'
Everyone knows that Applegate is 
taking Civil so that he can be handy 
to the girlsdepartment.
McCLOY ELECTRIC COMPANY 
'Electric Wiring and Repairing3908 Fifth Ave.
Bell Phone 30 Schenley. OAKLAND.
Bell Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
'Maker ofGENTLEMEN'S FINE
GARMENTS
Latest Styles. Prices Extremely Low 
121 OAKLAND AVE.
-- SI HUTS --
THE BEST
VOL.IL
Can deliver in a week at this time.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
SSca rbougchc&Kcogc lsc
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, T Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
0
Tpf FPHONFS ' /P & A - 2281-X 1 LLEPHONES . j Bejj ^ j Highland
'TECHSPECIALTIES AT
THE HOMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS, 
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH,
But if it has the brand ofCAIN ONIT
it's the BEST SHOE 011 earth 
WM. H. CAIN ! BOW Penn Ave. E. E.
Phone 1191 Highland

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
HAVE YOU A BANK ACCOUNT?
More than two thousand, Oakland people have their accounts here and receive every accommodation consistent with safe 
banking.OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
Capital,.......................................................$200,000.00 Surplus,...............................................................$126,000.00
2 PER CENT. ON CHECKING ACCOUNTS.-----4 PER CENT. ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
A REVIEW OF THE ATHLETIC SITUATION.
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. & A. 166 Park
LIBERTY
301 CBAIG ST.
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues
REV. Daniel RUSSEEL, D. Dm Pastor 
Sunday Services:
9:45 a. m., Young Men's Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11:00 a. m.'Preaching'8:00 p. m. 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schoi 1 
welcome at all services.
Social StudiesEvening Sermons in November: 
4th'The Social Question, nth'Rich and Poor 
18th'The Industrial Order. 25th'SocialServices 
ORGAN REClTAE AT 7:45
A BARGAIN.
Several EngineersHand Books at 
about one-half cost, may be obtained 
upon application to Sampson.
Continued from page 1.It has been suggested that a team 
be gotten together, representing the 
best material in the day schools and 
a similar team from the night schools; 
the two to play a series of match 
games, and the winning team represent the Carnegie Technical schools 
in that particular sport.
This works out nicely in theory an'd 
seems a very plausible solution of the 
problem. Yet we believe there are 
some formidable objections, viz.: given 
that the night team won, some men 
w'ho had played in the match game 
could ncit play out-of-town games 
every week for business reasons, or 
perhaps there were one or two weak 
spots in the night team which could 
be ably filled by day men, the very 
fact that the representing team must 
be from the night school would bar 
these day men. This, of course, would 
be the same circumstance in regard 
to weak spots in the team's line-up 
if the day men were winners of the 
match game. Again, we believe that 
this theory would give the day schools 
an advantage over the night departments, in that the day men have a 
greater amount of spare time to devote 
to athletics, and should, in view of 
this fact, beat the night men.
Why not follow Director Hamerschlag's suggestion offered at the beginning of the foot-ball season; that 
is let the matter solve itself; follow 
the regime as we have been, and let 
the night men feel that it is their 
team as well as the day school's team, 
and that a man will not be asked 
whether he is a day man or a night 
man, his only qualification being his 
class standing and his ability to make 
the team. We are all Tech men.------o------
CLASS OF 1911.
The Class of 1911 night school of 
Applied Science are organizing a football team to play the Class of 1910. 
Many of the men are old school or 
club players and the outlook is promising for a good fast aggregation. 
Newell has been elected temporary 
captain and the following men are 
candidates for positions: Kirk, McCully, Newell, Flinn. Morgan. Brock, 
Hess. Miller, Gardner, Pringle. Kline, 
Dougherty, Wilharm, Street, Nenus, 
Morrison.
----------o----------
The wife of Mr. Pfouts is quite ill 
with fever. He has the sympathy of 
the entire school, and we wish her 
a speedy recovery.
The Best Store!
3714 FORBES ST.
ANOTHER GREATNECKWEAR SALEFRIDAY THIS WEEK,
Tartan Plaids Black and White Plaids Fancy Checks 25c each
Look like other dealers 50c goods. 
Come Quick.
Harry DeHaan
Wholesale 
LIQUORS
3703 FIFTH AVZ.
HELLO! FELLOWS ! !
TRY THE 'TECHBARBER SHOP
Cor. Craig and Forbes Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN
Subscription Blank.
Pittsburg, Pa.............................190..
The Tartan:
For the enclosed $1.00 please send 
me The Tartan for one year.
NOTICE.
All subscribers who wish their 
Tartans mailed to them, kindly fill in 
the following blank:
Pittsburg, Pa...........................190..
The Tartan:
Please mail my Tartan to the following address:

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
Editor - - - - Frederick E. Foster
Business Mgr. - - James M. Sampson
Subscription Rates
Yearly............................................$1.00
Single Copy..............................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, care Carnegie 
Technical School.
SCRUBS LOSE FIRST GAME.
On election day the Tech Freshmen 
came up against the strong Wilkinsburg High School team at D. C. and 
A. C. Park in Wilkinsburg. The game 
was well attended., especially by the
fair sex, and this may have caused
the nervousness of Quarterback 
'Wells.' Wilkinsburg scored in the
first two minutes of play, and in the
rest of the half, the Tech men were 
fairly swept oif their feet. However, 
in the second half, Wilkinsburg got 
only one touchdown, and that in the 
last half minute of play. The play of 
'Marshallfor Tech was fast and 
strong, and Reisfar, Hagan and Patch 
also did good work. The line-up: 
Wilkinsburg'34. Tech Scrubs'0
McGowan . . ..........R. E.... . .. Matcher
Munroe................R. T. . .. Fahnestock
Yingling-----........R. G. . ...........Dodds
Allen ........................C ____. . . .Gerould
Miles .................L. G............Eggers
Edwards . ..........L. T.... . . Hartman
Acheson___L. E____
Bion .........................Q ....___'WellsDipple ..................R. H. . ..'MarshallW. Marshall.___L. H____........Hagan
Havmaker . . ...........F. B. . .........Patch.
Time of halves'20 and15 minutes.
Touchdowns'-Haymaker,Dipple 2,
W. Marshall 2, Yingling. Kicked 
goal'Bien. Missed goal'Bien 2. 
Substitutions'Hunter for Miles, Giesey for Acheson. Reisfar for Hartman, 
Silvernail for Fahnestock, McKee for 
Barber, Hammond for Dodds. Linesmen'Wymard and Merrill. Timekeepers'Callender and Brown. Referee'Roberts.
-------------o-------------
CLASS SOCIETIES.
Civils.
The second regular meeting of the 
Civil Engineering Society was held 
last Saturday evening at the home of 
Dr. Thayer on Linden avenue. Their 
constitution was read and formally 
adopted, and then the men listened 
to a short talk on the History of Civil 
Engineering, by Mr. Reed.
Refreshments were next served, 
after which Dr. Thayer rendered a 
short address on the failure of the 
city reservoir of Providence, R. I. 
These meetings will be held regularly 
on the second Saturday night of each 
month.
Mechanicals.
Since the election of their officers the
Mechanicals have not held any regular 
meeting, due to the fact that their 
President, Mr. Kohler, has been on 
the sick list.
Electricals.
The Electricals met a short time ago 
and adopted a constitution and bylaws. No regular meeting has been 
held as yet, but one is scheduled for 
the near future.
Pioneer Tech Smoker.
The members of the Pioneer Tech 
Club are planning to give a smoker 
very soon to the men who are moving 
into the new dormitory on Woodlawn 
avenue. Did some one say there was 
a smoke ordinance in Pittsburg?
1910 vs. 1911.
Nothiug slow about these two 
classes'they have practically completed arrangements for an inter-class 
football game to be held Thanksgiving 
Day, on the school campus. Judging 
from the material in the two classes; 
we expect to see a first-class game 
between them. ^ i
----------- IThe Tartan Staff.
On the evening of Friday, November 
16th there will be a meeting of the 
editors, managers and reporters on 
the Tartan Staff. It is important that 
all of the above be present.
Mr. A. F. Stamm, the Tartan representative of the Class of 1911, wishes! 
to announce that all matters pertain-, 
ing to the affairs or doings of his class 
be kindly put into his hands as early 
each week as possible.
The entire student body sympathizes 
with Dr. Sill in the loss of his mother 
during the early part of last week.
Comment.
Some of the Plebes wish to know 
if the second year men are so much 
'Juniorsthat they are no longer 
'Techmen. ,
One of the girls wanted to know how 
many Tech men voted last week. 
Why?
What has become of the spirit 
prompting the issuance of the 'Junior 
Proclamation?'
Everyone is looking forward to 
something good in the basket-ball 
line from the night school.
What's the matter with a foot-ball 
game between the day and night 
schools?
A good many want to know something about the new Machinery Hall. 
Watch the next Tartan.
A great deal is being heard about 
a reception and dance for the members of the girlsnight school by the 
night men. Oh, goody!!
Tt is understood that a good many 
non-resident students have been invited to share the Thanksgiving dinner of their Pittsburg classmates.
Is there going to be any place in 
which basket-ball practice can be held?
-------------a------------
GIRLSSCHOOL.
On Saturday, November 3d, about 
thirty girls, accompanied by Miss 
Smith and Miss Munson, visited the 
Homestead Steel Works. Mr. Clark, 
the father of one of the girls, provided 
six guides. It was all very interesting, 
especially the process by which armor 
plate for Uncle Sam's battleships, is 
made. Everybody pronounced it a 
very enjoyable morning.
The constitution of the Class of '09 
of the M. M. C. S. has been drawn 
up, and was approved at a special 
meeting called Thursday, November 
8th.------o'----
MILADY'S PURSE.
She was an heiress, and the purse 
She carrier in her dainty hand 
Might well the fortunes reimburse 
Of any spendthrift in the land.
At least most men imagined so;
Yet they for years might rack their 
brains,
And after all would never know 
The total wealth that purse contains. 
So here in full we give the list,
From which no item has been 
missed:
A bit of string, a button hook,
A clipping from a cooking-book,
A little Turkish cigarette,
A bit of gum (unused as yet),
Samples of gingham, organdie,
Chiffon, crepon, and dimity;
Besides a shred of mous^elline 
De soie, a worn-out safety pin,
A collar button made of bone,
A lock of hair (perhaps her own),
A fashionable modiste's card,
A strip of blue and white foulard,
A picture postal-card from Rome,
And half-a-dime to take her home.
P. L. G.
-------------o-------------
Cotillion Club Dance.
Tuesday night witnessed the most 
successful dance yet held by any of 
the Carnegie Tech School students. 
As usual some of the fellows who did 
not attend tried to spoil the affair by 
putting the lights out of commission, 
but the lanterns, arranged alternately 
with nennants of many schools, intended only for decoration, were put 
into uye and made things much more 
enjoyable.
This is the first of a series of affairs' 
being arranged for a social club, 
which will shortly be organized.
Those present were Misses Alcorn, 
Bovard, Smith, Munsen, L. Herron, J. 
Herron, Schwartz, Nixon, Stewart, 
Schuman, Ramlach, McGano, Marcus, 
and Pfeil; and Messrs. Williams, Chester, Pfeil, Gittins, Miller, Kenton, Ma---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
P. LUDEBUEHL & SONS,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
REPORTS OF CHEMIST.
J. G. Connell, M.D.
City,
My Dear Doctor: '
Please permit me to report on the 
results I obtained during a test of your 
Connell-Hughes Still and Aerator, and 
of the water furnished by the same; 
in grains per U. S. gallon:
Distilled Hydrant 
Water Water 
(Pittsburg) 
Grains
Total solids............Mere traces 6.752
Chlorine ...............................None 0.374
Oxygen-consuming power None 0.321
Albuminoid Ammonia.......None 0.0271
Nitrogen as nitrites.........None traces
Nitrogen as nitrates.........None 0.147
Bacillus coal......................None Present
Quantity of Distilled
Water per hour.. .About 1 GallonAs the Water furnished by the Still 
is therefore chemically and bacteriologically pure, and well aerated, it 
leaves nothing to be desired.
Respectfully submitted,
F. T. ASHMAN. 
The Apparatus can be seen at the 
following places 
Bellefield Pharmacy, Forbes & Craig 
Sts.
Houston's store, Bryant nr St. Clair St. 
Porter's Drug Store, N. Negley Ave. 
Dr. W. G. Hughesoffice, 6223 Penn Av. 
Dr. J. C. Connell's office, Forbes Building, Oakland.
McKennan Drug Store, Market St. 
Chas. Babst Co., 207 Seventh St. 
Pittsburg PhysiciansSupply Co., 646 
Penn Ave.
son, Bieler, Wagner, Work, ,Silvernail, 
Grafton, Decker, Jamieson, Shaub and 
Kann, the last three having the affair 
in charge.
-------------o------------
A SOLILOQUY.
Continued from page i. 
work be developed, and to insure best 
results, there must be daylight prac'tice.
her performances along the line, and 
the unprepared may miss them all.
The mind of the man who does 
things is after the likeness of the 
seismograph, and his eyes like its 
delicate levers.
Don't cherish the delusion that ideas 
are equipped, like an alarm clock, with 
warning bell to waken you when they 
are near. They are furtive and timid 
like the 'kindred of the wild,' but 
visible always to eyes that are quick, 
and intelligible to brains that are alert.
The admonition, excellent but unpopular, that the Bible gravely offers 
to the spiritually heedless, may conclude these purely worldly observations,''Be ye also ready.'
THE THISTLE.
Prof. Willet has been chosen as 
the representative on the 1906-7 Thistle Board. He was of very great assistance to the boys last year and we 
are all glad to know that he is to be 
with us again.
 o--------------
Many of the students, both day and 
night, have been wondering how they 
could get together in some social way. 
What's the matter with a smoker?
-------------o--------------
Some one of the Mechanicals were 
at school on election day finishing up 
back work. W. W. Rhinehart was
assisting a certain young lady in the 
girls' school to catch up with her
sewing.
The Thistle Board.
At a meeting of the Thistle Board, 
comprised of the following men: 
Jones, Stevenson, Hunt, Bates, Huntley, Kamp, Neudorfer, Wallace, Lucas, 
Parsons, Henderson and Steen, Parsons was elected Business Manager 
and Wallace, Editor-in-Chief. It is 
proposed to elect members to the 
board from the Plebe Class and from 
all departments of the school, including the M. M. C. S.
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughtsmen'Experts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and ArtistsMaterials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
OH! SEE HENRY,
For Your Photographs
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY 
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
BRAIN and BRANN of the RIGHT SORT
Comes to the users of our
Bread, Pies and Cakes
Let us supply the Baked Goods for
YOUR CLUB HOUSE
We'll treat you right'You'll be pleased.
~ HALLER3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Building.
Kaercher's Drug Store
COR. CRAIG & FORBES STS.
_<'>_rbert T. ZE^a-ercih-er, ^Proprietor
Schenley 9018-J Park 303

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MANUFACTURING JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,
----HEEREN BUILDING, PENN A VE. & 8 TH ST.---'
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech. School Pins.
THE SLIDE RULE'WITH EXERCISES FOR BEGINNERS.
(This is the first of a series of articles on the Slide Rule which the 
Tartan will publish within the next few weeks.
These 'lessonsare designed to furnist anyone who carefully reads 
them and works out the examples included, with a practical working 
knowledge of the operation of the Slide Rule sufficient for all ordinary uses.)
INTRODUCTORY.'The slide rule is an instrument for calculating. 
Multiplication and division are performed mechanically by adding or subtracting lengths on the scale. The instrument has become an indispensable 
aid to the engineer, owing to the speed and ease with which calculations 
may be made.
The object of this paper is not to explain the theory of the slide rule, 
but to give a series of exercises to those who wish to learn its use.
The usual form of slide rule is shown in Figure I, the actual length 
being about ten inches.
1' 1 2.3,46 7 8 9 1' Ili. ? ,1 L?j 1 1 * * I1 ' ' 'i 1 i ' i *.1 6 ' 7 eVl 1 131:12' 1 4 ' ' 1 4 ' V g'i'i
j "1 t \ f I t'r t t ir rIl 1 f rf lit 111' !llj!I
,No4 P4
There are four scales; the lower pair, marked C and D, are alike and 
represent the logarithms of all numbers from one to ten. The distances 
possess the properties of logarithms. For example, the distance from
1 to 4 is twice that from 1 to 2, because log 4'2xlog 2.
The upper scales, A and B, are like the lower ones, only half as long
and repeated, making two scales exactly alike. Their combined length is
equal to the lower scales. When arranged thus, the numbers on the upper 
scale are the squares of the numbers on the lower scale. Each pair of 
scales is complete in itself and may be used independently.
The runner is a light metal frame with a transparent face, which
slides freely on the stock. A line ruled across its face serves to read 
across from upper to lower scales, also to keep the place in a series of 
operations, so that only the final result need be read off.
READING THE GRADUATIONS.'The first step for the beginner is to 
practice finding the location of numbers on the scale. To aid in this, the 
location of the integers 1, 2, 3, etc., is marked on all the scales. In addition, the tenths between 1 and 2 are marked on the lower scales. Many 
other numbers are shown by intermediate graduations, not marked. In 
general, however, any number taken at random will lie between certain 
graduations, the exact point being estimated by the eye.
Exercise I.
Place the vertical line of the runner at the following numbers on 
scale D:
(a) 1.1
(b) 1.75
(c) 1.915
(d) 1.244
(e) 240.
(f) 282.
Notes on Exercise I. (a) See Fig. 2 
the following ones. (b) The number 7
(g) 2.9137
(h) 3750.
(i) - 415.
(j) 490.
(k) 57900.
(m) 600.
for location of this number and 
here is part of 17 and not the
integer 7 which is found farther to the right. (g) Locate this by estimating between 290 and 292: only three significant figures can be used in 
this part of the scale, (h) The number is located without regard to the 
decimal point, so 3.75 and 3750 are found at the same place.
PERSONALS.
Miss Merriam in Mechanical Drawing''Miss Ramlack, are you here?'
Miss Shuman wants to know what 
makes a person yawn.
First period 7:30, girls.
A popular question'What's next?
Miss Selheimer loves the Mother 
Earth. In her efforts to hug it, great 
was the fall thereof.
Geography class''Where are the 
hardwood fisheries of the United 
States?'
A girl in the 'Dclass''I ain't 
going to give up the walking club to 
git grammar.'
Some of the girls of the M. M. C. S. 
have been made to feel that they are 
mere infants.
If you must play foot-ball at noon, 
boys, please keep to the field; the 
girls aren't in training.
Mr. Barnett''How much added to 
77 will make 100?'
Side Whisper''Skidoo.'
On October 26 it was discovered that 
the A class had 13 members in it and 
this discovery made on a Friday.
Because the color predominates in 
the class pin, it does not signify there 
is any yellow in our class. Eh, girls?
Miss Kammerer objects to round 
tables in the dining room because it 
is so hard to get a square meal from 
them.
Did the horse show have anything 
to do with the change of the English 
period Friday night?
Miss Gibbs never laughs. She has 
enough strength of will to refrain 
from laughing at her own jokes, and 
nobody else says anything funny.
The Mechanical class offer their 
sympathy to Mr. Hammer, who had his 
right hand injured so badly that he 
could not write during the Engl;?h 
exam.
President''Miss Secretary, have 
you any minutes?'
Secretary''No, I've lost my notebook.'
Note: Our Secretary is very musical.
Fig. 2 Part of scale D, showing the numbers of Exercise I.Overheard near Carnegie Library

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
Exercise 2.
Read the numbers shown by the letters a, b, c, etc., in the following 
figure, scale A.
1 1 ? , 3i.4.5'
9 " i j
THEA RA
Answers to Exercise II.: (a) 12; (b) 1413; (c) 173; (d) 215; (e) 246;
(f) 2875; (g) 31416; (h) 399; (i) 52; (j) 616.
Notes on Exercise II. (a) No attention is given to the decimal point
in any of these numbers. (b) The last figure is uncertain and the number may lie between 1410 and 1415. (g) The number ' is given a special
line, owing to its frequent use. The number .7854 is also marked in this 
way on the upper scales. Note'The italic n'3.1416.
MULTIPLICATION.'Either the lower or upper scale can be used. The 
first are a little more accurate and the second a little more convenient. 
Numbers are used without any reference to the decimal point, which is 
determined by inspection in the final result.
The operation of multiplying is as follows: Place either end of the 
slide at one factor and find the product opposite the other factor on the 
slide.
The work can be done on either set of scales; to illustrate this the 
product of 125 by 17 is shown on the A and B scales (Fig. 4) and then on 
the C and D scales (Fig. 5).
t Yy1xd-----------^=dtiiiLliiiih'iitmimmNTNmllJlmuli-vL1imimn...''a i-----1---1' *----------!
n'second factor 
,NoS BS
17. second factor.
cIN'lujj.ilTTtTTTTllllIURHillill111,1l,lmTJllllllllllllllmiliiii1LUJ'1LLi4iJ.i1: i! ! j i i 1 : jiiii 1IllJIM 1111(1111fiiii G unIII:111impili
2fSS product.
F iG. 5.
11 x 3 '33
111 x 2 '222
125 xl7 '2125
1145 x 2 '2290(c)
21.2 x3.12 '66.15(d)
42.5 x4.2 '178.5(e)
91 xll.5 '1046
7.56x30.3 '229
In multiplying it is best to move the runner to the second factor, as it 
aids the eye in reading across to the product.
Exercise 3.
Multiply on the lower scales. 11 x3 ' 33
11.1x2.22' 24.6
1145 x2 ' 2290
Multiply on the upper scales. 
21.2x3.12' 66
(a) 21.2 x3.12 = 66.15 (d) 42.5x4.2 ' 178
(b) 42.5 x4.2 ' 178.5 (e) 91 xll.5' 1050
2 x n ' 6.28
8 x.7854' 6.28
Notes on Exercise 3. (a) The exact product is 66.144 while the slide
rule gives 661; making the error less than one-tenth of one per cent, (b) 
Here the drawback of the lower scale is shown; if the left hand end of the 
slide is placed at 42.5 the other factor extends beyond the graduations on the 
stock. The right hand end of the slide must be used. It is often difficult 
to tell, without trying, which end is wanted, (c) The upper scales are less 
accurate, owing to their shorter length. Compare with the result of (a), (d). 
The result is found on the scale without any trouble in this case, (e) It 
is convenient to put the middle of the slide at 91, instead of the left hand 
end.
Multiplication of Several Factors.'The procedure is an extension of 
the single multiplication illustrated in figures 4 and 5. After multiplying two 
factors, the runner is fixed at the product which is treated as a new factor 
and multiplied by the third number, and so on.
As an example, take the numbers 23x1.4x7.2. Place one end of the slide 
at 23; move runner to 14 on slide; again put one end of slide at the runner; 
finally move the number to 72 on the slide and read the answer 232 on the 
stock.
The operations can also be shown by a diagram like that of figure 6,
on Wednesday evening, on the way to 
the 'Tech:.'
First Boy''Gee! look at all the 
people! Where are they goin'?'
A few minutes later at the rear of 
the Library:
Second Boy''What are we corninround here for?'
First Boy''I want to see where 
all these people are going. If we don't 
hurry we won't get a good seat.'------o------
It was the feeling among the students last year that while they were 
not pushed to their fullest studying 
capacity, at that time, that this year 
they would have to burn the midnight
oil in terms of gallons. The men have 
begun this year's work in much the 
same spirit that they did last year's, 
and it is concluded by the editors 
from the numerous gloomy faces seen 
coming down the hall from the Registrar's office, that the work is entirely unsatisfactory. Many of the students are totally disregarding certain 
branches of the school work which 
they think too unintersting for their 
best efforts.
It takes but little forethought for a 
man to realize that these subjects are 
perhaps the chief attributes of a successful technical man; and a glance 
over our curriculum shows that there 
is not one subject which is not absolutely essential to the engineer.
The students must bear in mind the 
fact that there are certain subjects 
which have been 'thorns in the side-' 
of most college men. Ask the average 
scientific school man if he has had the 
subject or subjects which prove uninteresting to you, and perhaps he may 
say, with a sigh of relief, 'Yes, I have 
had it,' much in the same way that 
he would say that he had gone 
through some terrible ordeal. Yet 
these very subjects go a long way towards stamping him as an educated 
man.
This work cannot be made, by any 
one, as pleasant as some of our major 
studies, but let us give our best.
----------o----------
VISITORS.
Baron Chokichi Kikkawa, a member 
of the upper house of the Japanese 
Parliament and a graduate of Harvard University, class 1882, visited the 
school last Saturday. Baron Kikkawa 
has been in the diplomatic service for 
some time and is of the up-to-date 
school of Japanese. He said that he 
was much impressed with our institution. Dr. Eaton, a member of our faculty, gave a dinner in the Baron's 
honor on Saturday evening, at which 
the following were present: Director
Hamersclilag, Mr. Brashear, Mr. McConway, Judge Buffington, T. C. Jenkins, Jr., Col. Church, Lee Smith.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
which should be carefully studied, as it is a compact and serviceable method 
of describing the various steps. The sequence of operations is as follows:
A23RUNNER232 PnJuct
B114- I I
(a)(*} (c)(d,NoS AS
(a) Set one end of slide to 23 011 scale A.
(b) Move runner to 14 on slide.
(c) Leaving runner undisturbed, move end of slide to it.
(d) Move runner to 72 on slide and read product 232, on A.
Exercise 4.
(a)1.5x1.4 x1.8-3.77
2.1X2.2 x3.5'16.15
3.35X52. x9.61670.
17.2X2.05 x3.35X7.1 '871.
(b)9.1X9.1 x8.6X7-4 '5260.
(c)1.2X1.2 x1.2X1.2x1.2 '1.25':
14.85X1.915x2.745X30674 '2390000
13.X1.3 x.67X27.8x'x9 '8880
Notes on Exercise 4.'(a) The decimal point of the result is determined by inspection, not by the slide rule. The exact result is 3.78; it was 
intended to give results by the slide rule in the exercise, not by caluculation, hence errors of one-third of one per cent, or less ma ybe expected, 
(b) Either right end, left end, or center of slide can be set to the factor. 
In examples like this the center is most convenient, (c) Any integral 
power of a number can be formed in this way.
The foregoing exercises should be worked out by the student repeatedly 
until they can be done with precision. With this preparation the complete 
use of the slide rule can readily be acquired.
(To be continued.)
The Golf Team.
The golf players in the school hope 
to get up a team, this year, that will 
make 'Techproud of them. Mr. D. 
Challinor has been elected captain and 
Mr. H. Mason, manager. Of last year's 
players there are Challinor, Mason, 
Donehoo, Lyle, Gerould, Miller and 
Fowler.
The golf-playing-Plebes are requested to hand their names to the captain, for he needs all the material he 
can get to organize a good team.
It is hoped that games can be secured with some of the teams in the 
East.
----------o----------
ANNOUNCEMENT.
At the last faculty meeting it was 
decided that for advancement in class 
standing all students shall be required 
to obtain a grade of at least 60% in 
each subject and a general average of 
at least 70%. A student rated below 
60% in any subject shall be required 
to remove his condition at the first 
regular re-examination period following failure. Examinations shall be 
scheduled for this purpose in April, 
June, September and December. A 
student failing to comply with these 
requirements shall not continue with 
his class except by special permission 
of the faculty.
ASK STUDENTS FOR PLANS.
Carnegie Tech and W. U. P. Undergrads Will Be Given a Chance.
The names of the 31 citizens who 
are to serve on the flood commission 
have been announced by Mayor 
Charles F. Kirschler of Allegheny. 
As soon as a meeting can be called the 
work of the commission will be taken 
up.
Several able engineers will be engaged to submit plans. It has been 
suggested that students from the 
Western University of Pennsylvania 
and the Carnegie Tech schools might 
submit competitive plans for levees on 
the order of those built along the Mississippi.
----------o----------
Mr. Kohler has been laid up for 
some days with a bad eye, caused by 
a flying piece of steel in the machine 
shop.
C-A-R-N-EG-I-E
RAH RAH RAH 
TECH!
SHOW YOUR LOYALTY TO YOUR 
SCHOOL BY DISPLAYING HER 
COLORS. HERE IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO GET IN RIGHT. 
LEATHER CUSHIONS WITH 
'TECH PLAIDBURNT IN ORIGINAL COLORS. JUST THE 
THING FOR YOUR ROOM OR 
DEN. THREE TO SEVEN DOLLARS. HAND-MADE AND GENUINE LEATHER. GET NEXT 
TO A GOOD THING AND SEND 
IN YOUR ORDER *.* .\ v
R.J. SEAMAN &CO.
207 Nixon Building, 
PITTSBURG, PA.
Mabt)ieu Hi ec brie Co.,
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
PATRONIZE 
OUR 
ADVERTISERS
Mr. B. H. Lytle, of the lElectrical 
course, has announced his intention of 
specializing in telegraphy. It will be 
noticed that he is already closely 
studying the operation of the private 
branch switchboard in the Reference 
Room. Of course, the operator lends 
assistance in his study, when it is 
needed. How nice! ! !
