HOME CONCERT 
Annual Formal Dance 
FRIDAY, MARCH 95hr alaran
VOL. XI. NO. 22
BASKETBALL 
Universyof Pittsburgh 
SATURDAY, MAR. 10
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAMARCH 7, 1917
DIRECTOR ADVOCATES INTENSIVE MILITARY TRAINING; 
ADJUTANT TO TAKE CENSUS; M. M. C. S. STUDENTS TO TRAIN
TARTAN COMMITTEE
To Supply Students With 
Information Concerning 
Enlistment
FOR RED CROSS SERVICE; TARTAN
WOULD MAKE CAMP LOUISE CARNEGIE SIMILAR 
TO PLATTSBURCi GOVERNMENT SUPPORT NEEDED
H. J. SCOBELL iS CHAIRMAN
In view of the great importance of 
the national situation to college stu
dents, The Tartan has appointed a 
special committee to present to the 
students information of interest con
cerning preparedness. The work of 
this committee will be published in 
The Tartan for an indefinite period of 
time.
At present the object of the Tartan 
committee is:
1. To inform the students regarding 
the different branches of military and 
naval service in which they may enter, 
to most efficiently make use of the 
training received while at Tech, and 
to aid them to determine for which 
branch of the service they are best 
suited.
2. To keep them in touch with sim
ilar lines of work done in other 
schools. Not with the object in view 
that the methods adopted by other 
schools shall be copied or followed, but 
for the purpose of acquainting the stu
dents with the serious attention that 
more than one hundred colleges and 
universities throughout the country 
are giving the" question of national 
preparedness.
3. The object of this campaign is not 
merely to consider the question of pre
paredness with reference to the pres
ent crisis, but also to advocate pre
paredness in times of peace.
Articles written by this committee 
will cover subjects dealing with en
listment requirements for all branches 
of the service; work of engineers so
cieties in connection with prepared
ness; American Military Institute, 
Plattsburg; Intercollegiate Intelligence 
Bureau; Collegiate Anti-Militarism 
League. Articles relating the experi
ences of both students and faculty who 
have been in the army, navy, at Platts
burg, or at the border, will also ap
pear . Information of a similar char
acter will be supplied to The Tartan 
by the Yale News Press Bureau. Many 
other interesting features will also ap
pear.
ARTS AND CRAFTS GIRLS GIVEN TEABY FACULTY
Early last week charming cards 
were sent to the girls of the Home 
Arts and Crafts Department of the 
M. M. C. S. by their faculty, inviting 
them to take coffee in the Studio on 
Friday afternoon. At four oclock, 
Miss Merrill, in a most becoming lace 
cap from Holland, assisted by the 
members of her staff, received the 
guests in the east end of the Studio, 
which had been attractively screened 
off. A large bowl of tulips and fresias 
made an appropriate setting for the 
little Dutch hostess. After delicious 
refreshments had been served, much 
fun was made by the playing of char
ades.
MUSICAL CLUBS MAKE 
TRIP TO GREENSBURG
Initial Production of Minia
ture Minstrel Show Was 
Well Received
On Friday evening the Musical Clubs 
gave a concert in the High School Au
ditorium of Greensburg, under the 
auspices of the First Presbyterian 
Church choir. The audience was large 
and from the applause seemed well 
pleased. Due to the efforts of A. Ein
stein, the stage manager, the stage set
ting was particularly attractive. Both 
clubs presented their programs with 
vigor and snap, the Glee Club being 
forced to respond to three encores 
after one of their numbers.
This concert was the initial produc
tion of the Miniature Minstrel Show, 
and its success surpassed even the 
most sanguine expectations. Messrs. 
Jamison, Sharp, Olsen and Welter 
sang the ballads in a pleasing manner, 
and both the quartet and solo numbers 
by the end men would have done 
credit to professionals. Unlike most 
productions of this kind, the jokes are 
absolutely new and have never been 
presented on the stage before. The 
instrumental trio was received with 
rounds of applause and rivals the Min
strel Show as a humorous specialty.
After the concert the clubs were 
guests at a dance in the Old Armory, 
and the greater part of the men re
mained in Greensburg over night. The 
concert was under the management of 
Mr. Webber, director of the Glee Club, 
and his arrangements were excellent. 
The men hope that he will decide to 
present another concert before the 
end of the season.
DEAN LEETE NAMED 
LIBRARY DIRECTOR
Successor to Harrison W. 
Craver Who Resigned Re
cently as Librarian
The resignation of Harrison W. 
Craver as librarian of the Carnegie 
library was accepted with regret by 
the trustees at a meeting yesterday.
Jol}n H. Leete, dean of the School 
of Applied Science of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, unanimously 
was chosen successor to Mr. Craver. 
When he is installed April 1 his title 
will be Director of the Carnegie Li
brary of Pittsburgh, instead of Li
brarian. This change in the title will 
be made to conform to the titles of 
other heads of departments at the Car
negie Institute.
Colonel Samuel Harden Church, 
president of the Institute, said that 
the Carnegie Library is now in the 
possession of such a large and capable j 
force of technically trained assistants 
that it is not necessary for the suc(ontinued on Page Four.)
APPOINTS COMMITTEE
Intercollegiate Intelligence Bureau Requests Appointment of 
Adjutant To Take Military Census of Faculty 
Alumni and Students
EASY VICTORY GAINED OVER WESTMINSTER
STUDENTS PREVIOUSLY UNAWARE OF DIRECTORS' STAND
Plaid Whips Visitors 48-15. 
Westminster Has No Reg
ular Schedule This Year
FLANS FORMED FOR CENTRAL STUDENT COUNCIL BY TRE SEANNACHIE SOCIETY
Organization of Four Schools SCIENCE GOVERNMENT
 IS MAKING PROGRESS
After three months of work on the 
question of an All-Schools Student 
Council, the Seannachie Society is 
now ready to place the matter in the 
hands of the various student bodies. 
A committee of the society, of which 
T. E. Orr is chairman, has sent the 
following letter to the presidents of 
the four schools:
March 3, 1917.
Dear Sir: 
The need for a definite organization 
comprising the entire four schools of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
has been felt more this year, perhaps, 
than any other. There is a real and 
urgent need for a Central Student 
Council.
A committee of the Sennachie So
ciety has been considering the problem 
for the past three months, and time is 
at hand for the derivation of power 
from the student body.
The committee suggests that work 
on a constitution be begun by a comCContinued on Page Four.j
All Sub-Committees Make Fi
nal Reports on Constitut on 
and Final Draft Is Begun
The reports of all sub-committees 
of the Science School Organization 
Committee, which had to do with the 
proposed constitution, were received 
at the meeting on March 1, and were 
accepted, with minor changes.
The secretary was instructed to ar
range these resolutions in proper or
der and submit the result at the next 
meeting, on March 8. The general 
committee hopes to have the constitu
tion ready to be submitted to the 
classes for their consideration within 
two weeks. Details of the new consti
tution will appear in The Tartan at an 
early date.
Director Hamerschlag, when interviewed by a Tartan representa
tive last week, concerningthe advisability of military training at Car
negie Tech along similar lines as adopted by other institutions of 
learning throughout the country, said in part: Such training has 
been pronounced a flat failure by the majority of those who have 
taken it. The training seldom reaches beyond the simple rudiments 
of company drill for infantry, which department of the army has the 
largest quantity of readily available material requiring the least 
amount of special or technical training.  
The student body of an engineering college by reason of its curri
culum lias already absorbed special knowledge which cannot possibly 
be taught the average citizen in a short period of time, and which is 
invaluable in special [branches of the service. It is therefore unfairto both the students and the country not to use this training in the 
place where it will prove the greatest value.
In place of the usual military training adopted by colleges which 
involves merely a knowledge of tho manual of arms and company 
formation, the Director suggested a plan that the entire student body 
of Carnegie Tech be taken to Camp Louise Carnegie for concentrated 
training along specific technical lines of modern warfare, for two 
months each year. During these periods, said the Director, Various 
groups of students who specialize in trench and fortification con
struction; road, bridge, and pontoon building; map-making; artillery 
fire-control, wireless or aviation. Each group specializing in its own 
chosen sphere of activity. For such a plan it would however be neces
sary for the government to supply the officers and equipment and 
funds necessary to defray the expenses;/]
This plan was proposed personally by Director Hamerschlag to 
President Wilson. No action concerning this plan has been taken up 
to the present time.
Such a plan as outlined by the Director would bo far more bene
ficial in training capable and efficient officers for the service than the 
present methods of military training now in vogue by the land grant 
institutions throughout the country.
The Director said, in addition: The lack of action at Tech, so 
far, is not a sign of the lack of patriotism, but a refusal to follow old 
ineffectual lines adopted by other schools. Many of our faculty and ( 
officers of the administration have attended colleges where military 
training is now compulsory, and almost without exception they have 
pronounced the training to be a failure. To be sure, there have been 
the uniforms, the guns and the brass bands which may have done 
their share towards developing patriotism, but few HEAL soldiers 
have been produced. It is a noteworthy fact that Lehigh, Imving no 
military training whatsoever, has placed more graduate students in 
the regular army as commissioned officers in Coast Artillery and 
other branches of the service than any of the land-grant colleges who 
have compulsory military training under United States Army 
Officers.
Up to the present time the students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology have been unaware of the views of Director Hamerschlag 
concerning the subject of military training. Regarding which, lie 
said: I am a militant! I am in favor of compulsory military train
ing throughout the countrynot only in preparation for the coming 
crisis, but as a means of preparedness in times of peacc.
Modern warfare is entirely different today than it was in the 
past. The skilled engineer; industry and manufacturing plays.a 
larger part today than ever before. This has been clearly shown in 
the present conflict. Russias lack of industrial preparedness has 
been sadly felt. In fact, the European conflict has proved that there 
is a very important place for the trained man at home in the indus
trial centers, as well as in the field, said the Director.
During the interview the writer was greatly impressed by the 
Directors great breadth of vision, his clear and practical reasoning, 
and his originality, which was outdone only by his deep, sincere, and 
genuine patriotism. It is no doubt due to these wonderful qualities 
that the Carnegie Institute of Technology has risen to such great 
prominence in so short a time. The growth of the school has been 
phenomenalnot bj7- accident!(Continued on Page Two.-)
Executive Committee of Musical Clubs
Complete lack of teamwork and of 
physical endurance caused the disrup
tion of the Westminster aggregation 
on the Tech floor last Saturday night. 
Not once were they even allowed to 
entertain the thought of a close game. 
With mighty aggressiveness and fast, 
clever playing, the Tech squad dis
played a brand of basketball never be
fore seen on the home court. Of 
course Tech had a walk-away. Nev
ertheless, any other team would have 
hit a stone wall had they met Carnegie 
Tech last Saturday evening. In the 
early part of the game /it looked as 
though Westminster would depart 
from Pittsburgh with a string of 
goose-eggs as their share of the battle 
with the Plaid. Carnegie had rollod 
ui) twelve points beforo the visitors 
were allowed the small sum of two 
points, and Avere compelled to wait 
until tho score was advanced to 
twenty-six before tlioy wore allowed 
to make another point by shooting a 
foul.
In justice to Westminster It must 
bo said that the basketball team is 
playing on no regular schedule this 
year, and tho sport Is consequently 
more or less disorganized. In fact, 
practlco was begun only a few days 
before tho game at Pittsburgh, and 
hence nothing more than tho inevitable 
could bo hoped for. In passing, how
ever, the..Westminster flvo can bo put 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
THISTLE ENTERS LAST 
STAGE OF FORMATION
Sales Campaign Closes Friday, 
March 9Book Goes to 
Press March 10
"Thistle Blossoms bloom on tho 
bonny hills of Scotland, but In the 
dear old U. S. A. tho grandest (lower 
of that sturdy plant Is found socrotod 
in tho pages of tho coining yoar-book, 
and because they are tho rarest things 
in America, you will luivo to got a 
"Thistle to discover what tho "bonny 
Thistle Blossoms mean. Nor Is tills 
separate feature of tho new book the 
only one of interest. The pages de
voted to snap-shots Include many rare 
and striking photographs of campus 
scenes, camp events, Dorm girls, and 
other delightfully interesting subjects. 
The faculty will be shown to their best 
advantage in Individual cuts and will 
be unable to blame It off 011 "that 
group picture.
To afford a graceful setting for the 
Grand Factotem of the Dormitories, 
who, besides being a commercial en(Continued on Page Three.)
Optional Ten Week Course 
to be Conducted under Su
pervision of Dr. Blair
ASSEMBLY MEETING TODAY
The M. M. C. S. students are going 
to prepare for expected war. Doctor 
E. L. Blair, the physician of the Mar
garet Morrison, is going to supervise 
a course of ten weeks duration for 
training the girls for National Red 
Cross work. This course will be en
tirely optional, although it is sanc
tioned by the school authorities. The 
time for tho course will probably be 
in the late afternoon or Saturday 
mornings.
Dr. Blair is exceptionally able to 
direct this work, as she has received 
the official certificate from the Na
tional Red Cross Society.
Upon tho completion of the work, 
Dr. Blair will givo an examination, 
which If passed, and receiving her 
signature, will entitle the girls to be
come members of tho society. Tho 
course Is outlined by the National 
Rod Cross. Should It become neces
sary, the course can be finished In 
five weeks, with extra time.
This proposition will bo presentod 
to the girls at tho Assembly on Wed
nesday.
INDUSTRIES PLEBES 
ENJOV CLASS BANQUET
Tho globes, of tho Industrien .School 
completely outwitted tho Mldcllomon 
when at 6:30 last Thursday evening, 
they gathorod at tho Hotel Schonloy 
for their first class banquet. Tho 
plans had ovldently boon arranged 
with tho strictest secrecy, under tho 
guldano of Seidel, tho class prosldont, 
and consequently he was not obliged 
to bo absout from the affair, nor wore 
the other participants molested. After 
Indulging In a hearty meal, tho mon 
llatonod to talks from Dean Connolloy 
and Mr, Hartman and several morn* 
hors of tho class. Soldol proved him
self to bo a capable toastmaster. A 
fair representation of tho class was 
present and tho affair is reported as 
having boon a most onjoyablo one.
ANNUAL SCIENCE STAG 
SCHEDULED FOR MAR. 17
The Annual Science Stag will bo 
hold in tho Carnegie Union at 8 oclock 
Saturday evening, March 17.
Each class will present an interest
ing sketch; several contests will bo 
staged; the faculty will be present. 
Good music will be furnished and good 
eats will be served.
Every man in the Science School 
should pay his assessment at once. 
The Stag is the one time every man 
can meet every other man in school.
SCALZO AND WEBBER WELL KNOWN FOR WORK IN MANDOLIN AND OLEE CLUB
DOME CONCERT PROGRAM DEFINITELY ARRANGED
Program Was Well Received 
in GreensburgA Minstiel 
Show is New Feature
The program for the Home Concert 
has been finally arranged and during 
this week efforts will be concentrated 
on working up the fine points of inter
pretation and on polishing tho rough 
places so that the concert on Friday 
evening will be absolutely the best 
than can bo presented.
Tho Homo Concert program was 
used In Greensburg last week with 
wonderful success. The write-up In 
the Greensburg paper Is too long to be 
copied verbatim, but the following ex
cerpts are worthy of noto. In discus
sing the Mandolin Club numbers, the 
critic states, "The work of the Man
dolin Club was suberb. Mr. Reids 
humorous selection, Romeo and Ju(Continued on Page Four)
Personnel of Executive Com
mittee Makes Exceptional 
Ssason Possible
Since 1010 the Mandolin Club has 
been under the direction of Sgn. Greg
orio Scalzo, one of the leading mondolin players of the country. At the 
time when Mr. Scalzo took up this 
work, the grade of music presented by 
the college clubs was not very high. 
Such organizations were not regarded 
as strictly musical ones, and In gen
eral the leaders did not realize the 
possibilities of Lhclr instruments.
Sgn. Scalzo changed all this. From 
Ills own experience as a concert mondollnist and his study of tho Instru
ment, he felt that a mandllin club 
could present tho higher grades of 
music with credit. The llrst success 
of that season as well as the ones fol
lowing showed that the 'venture rwaj. > 
a success and that the public heartily 
approved of the Idea.
Mr. Scalzo Is an Italian and is there
fore well suited by birth as well as by 
training, to direct a club; of mandolins 
(Continued on Page Two)
13545295

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwTHE TARTANWednesday, March 7, 1917
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie 
Institute of 'i'eehiiology.
Entered in the postofficc of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SCALZO AND WEDDED WELL KNOWN FODWORK IN MANDOLIN AND GLEE CLOD
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES  
5c tlie copyCanada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief.....................................................Alfred M. Staehle, 17
PhoneSehenley 0007
Business Manager...................................................Paul W. Emme], 17
Phone Sehenley 9167
Managing Editor.....................................................W. IT. Searight, 17
Phone Sehenley 9022-.)
Ncwg Editors.
.T. Russell Hoxworth, 17 
Phono Sehenley 9031 
A. O. Pearce, '18, assistant. 
Athletic Editor 
J. J. Kennedy, '17 
' Assistant Athlctlc Editors 
J. P. Davis, '18 
P. 0. Tucker, '19 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Rice
Editors
M. D. Meyerson, '19 
Alex. Sharove, '18 
Sue Smith, '17 
P. II. Armor, '19 
Associate Editors 
F. C. McConnell 
II. J. Scobell, '18 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richter 
Circulation Manager 
R. R. Miimma, "17 
Phone Sehenley 9070
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design
For the 
Col lege 
Boys
i~n Pen way K ESTAUPy
H X iT A GoodPAN I Place
435 - 5 Avf.. Cop.Wm.Penn Way 
Phone 9634 Grantto Eat
THE BLOSSOM 
RESTAURANT
(The Original)
3719 FORBES STREET
Here Youll Find the Com
bination That Pleases 
Cuisine, Service and Tempt
ing DishesEJ o/iy biiitti g
<ss|sisiNCERQU/Xi/JOIittlSARCADaUnUntpiTTSBURGHJSINGER PEN GIFT SHOP
Jenkins Arcade
Dance Committees: 
See R. C. Cosgrove, Junior Commercial School of 
Applied Science 
for your Programs and Favors and get our special rates.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible Lor policy of this paper; the Managing 
Editor for the make-up.
The' Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to he withheld if desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news items must be in the student postoillce, Central Building, by 
Monday noon. ,ri,VH^--|28
BERTRAM S. WEBBER
(Continued From Page One.) ?-
GREGORIO SCALZO
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Some time ago we suggested in the editorial columns of this 
paper that a student government, combining all the four schools, 
should be adopted at Carnegie Tech. It is with great pleasure that 
we are able to present in this issue of The Tartan an announcement 
that the Scannachie Society, after three months of diligent labor and 
exhaustive study, is ready to submit a constitution for such a govern
ment to I lie student body.
No student organization at Carnegie is better fitted to draw up 
such a constitution, inasmuch,as all 1he members of this honorary 
society are composed of men who have proven, by reason of their 
various activities, that they not only have an insight in Carnegie 
Tech affairs, but that their sacrifices in time and labor are indicative 
of a heartfelt interest in the welfare of the Institution.
Concerning the advisability of adopting an All-School Govern
ment, which has as its object the systematic guidance of the student 
affairs, we can only reiterate our statement of several weeks ago.
Carnegie Tech stands alone among leading institutions, in that 
is has no governing organization which can voice the sentiment of 
the entire student body.
Spread of Materialism in the United 
States Menace to National Character
By ROBERT LANSING, Secretary of State
The American peopleand I think they arc no 
different from other peopleshave been growing more 
ami nioro utilitarian in these later years; their thoughts 
and ao(is more and more influenced by what is culled 
the practical, and! less and less by what is called the 
ideal. .Immediate and tangible benefit is the apparent 
goal oJ? American effort. Wo a large extent, a very
largo extent, it has absorbed tho thought and energy
of our people. \ n every sphere of human activity 
social, religious, political and industrialthis concep
tion of the thing desirable in our national life has 
become increasingly potent. We who are living in this period, particularly 
at a time like the present, ought to take stock of the spiritual as well as 
material resources of this nation. It may be said that the average man 
today lias been wont to weigh in t)ie scales of expediency national duty 
and honorall those intense sentiments which in the old days kindled the
souls of men and made the United States a great, independent nation,
dedicated to' human liberty.
By Americans who cherish the spirit which inspired the fathers of 
the republic, by Americans who revere the memory of those who half a 
century ago laid down their lives for the right as they saw it, by Ameri
cans who measure conduct by a sense of duty rather than by material 
benefit, this tendency of present-day thought has been viewed with appre
hension for the future of the republic.
It is indeed a commentary on the American people that not a few 
ithinking men have been asking with serious concern: Have American 
eyes grown dim to'the achievements of the past? Has the blood of patri
otism ceased to throb in American veins? Have we forgotten that our 
heritage of liberty was sealed with the lives of devoted men, and that 
it is a sacred trust which we must hold and transmit unimpaired to the 
I generations to come ?
I believe most firmly that every one of these questions can be 
answered in the negative. I believe that at heart the American people 
are loyal and patriotic. Put to the test, I do not fear the outcome. I 
know that the people are to be trusted and that to them the honor of the 
nation is dearer than life itself. And yet I feel that the spread of mate
rialism has been a menace to our national character to which we should 
not be indifferent, a monace which ought not and must not continue.
Tho greatness of this nation does not lie in the immensity of its 
territory, nor in its millions of population, nor in tho vasiness of its 
resources, nor in tho intellectual and economic progress which finds no 
parallel in history. The greatness of America lies in tho hearts of its 
citizens. If these hearts beat true, nothing else matters
and guitars, since no other nation 
realizes so fully the musical worth of 
the mandolin and guitar, and byno 
other people are these instruments 
used with such wonderful results as 
by the Italians.
Director Webber.
Bertram S. Webber has been direct
ing the Glee Club since the beginning 
of the present season and in those few 
months has developed it to a point 
where the critics agree that the club 
is the equal of any similar college or
ganization in the country. Mr. Web
ber has devoted much time to the se
lection of the program and the train
ing of the men in their parts. The 
concerts at the beginning of the sea
son have given him opportunity to cor
rect faults >^ind improve the rendition 
so that on March 9 the concert will 
be' satisfactory to the most exacting 
critic.
Mr. Webber graduated from the 
University of Chicago as Ph. B., and 
then studied piano, organ, and compo
sition in Paris during 1907 and 1908. 
Returning to America, lie took up 
church work and was organist of the 
Central Church of Chicago for three 
years, and choirmaster and organist 
for St. Andrew Church of Pittsburgh 
from 1908 to 1915. At present he is 
choirmaster of the First Presbyterian 
Church of Greensburg and director of 
the Mendelssohn Choir of the same 
place. In the Institute, Mr. Webber 
is director of. the Choral Club and the 
Glee, Club.
The executive committee of the 
Musical Club consists of Andrew Car
negie,, president; I-I. A. Weber, man
ager, J. J. Pannabaker, assistant man
ager; A. W. Einstein, stage manager; 
R. W. Spring, librarian Glee Club, and 
W. Smith, librarian Mandolin Club. 
The entire committee is striving to 
make , this years Home Concert one 
that will go down in history as tho 
best that has over been presented by 
our own or any other club.
PERSONAL NOTES.
A. J. Airston writes from France I 
that he is still engaged in the good 
work of assisting in transferring the 
wounded from the front lines to the 
base hospitals, but in the last two! 
months has' not been overworked, as j 
the division to which he is attached j 
has not had very hard action. He has |
received copies of the Alumnus and 
expresses his delight in reading tho 
accounts of activities on the campus 
and the results of the athletic contests. 
He wishes to he remembered to all of 
his friends and would appreciate re
ceiving'a letter from those who find 
time to write. His address is No. 
10.1S7, S. S. Ang. IS, Convoi Automo
biles, Par B. C. M., Paris, France.
WOULD MAKE CAMP LOUISE CAR
NEGIE SIMILAR TO PLATTSliURG
.NOMINEES FOR CLASS OFFI
CES OF SCIENCE PLEBES
President,
GIFFEN, 
KINDELBERGER, 
CLARK,
KILBURN,
WRIGHT,
BREWER,
EGGERS. 
Secretary,
IRVINE,
CARR, 
CUNNINGHAM, 
STUPAKOFF,
JENNES.
T reasurer,
WENNING,
CASE, 
KERR,
SHEERS,
ALTSHUL.
DO YOU DANCE? 
A new clasa composed of students only starts Monday Evening, g
March 5th g
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, CRAIG AND FORBES 
No new people will be received until that date.
Tuition10 lessons, $3.00 $1.00 per week until paid, VOP
INDUSTRIES NIGHT 
SENIORS HOLD MEETING
(Continued From Page One.)
Tho intercollegiate Intelligence Bu
reau, with the concurrence of the Sec
retary of War, Honorable Newton D. 
Baker, and tho Council of National De
fense, has opened a campaign for ob
taining the names of American college 
students and alumni who would be 
willing to enter the service of the Gov
ernment in time of expected or actual 
war. .
A request has been received by Di
rector Hamerschlag from the Inter
collegiate Intelligence Bureau to ap
point an adjutant for the purpose of 
supplying the bureau with desired in
formation. Plans are now being con
sidered lor conducting a census of 
faculty, alumni, and students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, to 
find out what its resources are in men, 
talent, and in what capacity they 
would be available to the Government 
in case of need.
One of the suggested duties of the 
adjutant is to put himself in a position 
to answer a telegram immediately up
on receipt as to how many men could 
be rushed to a place for special work.
Up to the time of The Tartan going 
to press, an adjutant had not been ap
pointed.
SCIENCE SOPH NOMINATIONS
President.
C. D. MILLS.
E. A. BUTTS.
P. II. ARMOR.
Secretary.
11. 11. BLAU.
C. A. McDADE. 
ALFRED PAULUS.
G. 11. BRANDIN
Treasurer.
ROY (WELTER 
R. K. LEE.
H. S. BOWEN.
C. O. IIOBAN.
RAY STEPHENS.
The Night Seniors of the Industries 
School held a very interesting class 
meeting last Friday evening. Dean 
Connelley was present and gave a 
short talk. W. D. Green, editor-inchief of The Thistle, also spoke on the 
prospects for this years book. The 
following men 'were named to gather 
for The Thistle whatever material pos
sible from their respective sections: 
Printing, J: N. Galley; Electilical
Equipment, W. Broadberry; Structural 
Drafting, N. E. Kinying; Architectural 
Drafting, S. E. Wise; Practical Chem
istry, J. Maher; Plumbing, E. A. 
Young; Telephony, C. W. I-Iergenroeder; Bricklaying, S. T. Kelley; 
Mechanical Drafting, D. L. McCoy; 
Foundry, S. J. Kelley; Forging. J. Wil
son; Machine, W. L. McGaw'; Sheet 
Metal, I-. F. Saruble. W.(C. Hoffman 
was elected Class Historian.
Another meeting of the class will 
be held tomorrow, Thursday, evening, 
at which arrangements for a theater 
party will be completed.
NATIONAL DRAMA LEAGUE SECRETARY AT M. M.C.S.
THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE 
SHOP IN OAKLAND
Wear-Well
Shoe Shop
Between Fifth and Forbes on 
Oakland Avenue
the sins of a careless and shiftless 
life. At the close all were invited to 
the dining room, where Mrs. MacGo.wan served tea and calce, and a 
very sociable time was enjoyed.
These meetings' are continually 
growing and are proving a great bene
fit to the student bodies. Now, next 
Sunday afternoon, lets see at least one 
hundred fellows from Tech. Come 
and join us.
Last Wednesday morning, IVjlss 
Fitzgibbon, secretary of the Pittsburgh 
Branch of the National Drama League, 
talked at the M. M. C. S. Assembly. 
Miss Fitzgibbon told of the aim of the 
League, to educate through the drama 
by improving the character of the 
plays given. She gave its history and 
the interesting work it is now doing, 
especially through its Junior Depart
ment. The League holds its. conven
tion in Pittsburgh during the latter 
part of April.
PROF AUDE GIVES
Mr. I-I. T. R. Aude gave a very in
teresting talk last Sunday afternoon 
to the Dorm Bible Class. He chose 
the Story of Absalom for his subject. 
Every one that was there enjoyed liis 
talk very much.
Those who think it isnt worth while 
to come to these meetings do not 
know what they are missing. Every 
Tech man is welcome, whether lie 
lives in the Dorms, or not. These 
meetings last only about three-quar
ters of an hour. Come and join us 
next Sunday afternoon at 2:15 in the 
West Dorm Club. Dont be late or 
you will miss the singing.
FORMER TECH STUDENT 
PASSES AWAY SUDDENLY
On March 2, at the home of his 
parents, occurred the death of Mr. 
Earl John Gettman.
Mr. Gettman was a freshman in the 
Science School last year, a member of 
the Delta S\gma Chapter of the Sigma 
Nu Fraternity, a brother of Wilbur 
Gettman, 11.
Mr. Gettman leaves many friends 
who sympathize deeply with the be
reavement of his parents.
REV. MACGOWAN AGAIN 
ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESUL'mAt 3 oclock last Sunday afternoon 
j the members of the Pitt and Tech Y. 
M. C. A. met at the Bellefield Presby| terian Church. A short musical pro
gram was rendered by the orchestra 
and Miss Rose Leader, the charming 
contralto soloist of Shadyside Presby
terian Church, sang.
Rev. Robert MacGowan spoke 
The Sins of Meroz. 1-Ie brought out
VOCATIONAL COURSE STUDENTS GIVE TEA
The girls taking the Short Intensive 
Vocational Course in the Margaret 
Morrison gave a very pretty tea last 
Friday afternoon in the Recreation 
Room.' The faculty were their guests.
CHURCHES
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. R. 
Hamiltons Class. All young women 
to H. C. Young's Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park cars 
to Alder street.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.) 
------------------------------------------*-----------
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenue, 
Graded' Sunday School 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A.M. and 
8:00 P. Ivl.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Message 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D.,
/ Pastor.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7 :30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent 
service. Cleaning and pressing done 
on short notice. Special service to 
fraternities and rooming houses. Let 
us have a trial order. Call Sehenley 
875.
J: E. T. SHUMAN, 
3911 Forbes Street.
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
7:45 P. M. Splendid music, short 
Rormona.
Grace Reformed Church
(The Church Beautiful)
DITH RIDGE AND BAYARD STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor
ship at 11, Evening Services at 7:45, 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services. 
Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.
Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. 
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR 
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M. 
AT 9:45 OCLOCK 
Young Men's Bible Class 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Mens Bible Class 
Prof. William R. Farmer 
Western Theological Seminary 
Margaret Morrison Clasa 
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp 
Womens Bible Class 
Mr. George M. Kirk
PITT and TECH MEN
MEETING, 3 P. M., SUNDAY.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, FIFTH AVENUE 
SUBJECTS:
MARCH 4The Sin of Neroz"
MARCH 11Remember"
Strictly Uo-Denominational Special Music
Auspices Studem. Young Mens Christian Associations
18548790

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 7, 1917THE TARTANPage Three
5Spre10 PENCIL
NO MATTER WHAT COURSE 
YOURE TAKING YOU NEED 
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
. Because o the superlative quality o material 
f\ and workmanship, VENUS 
/ \ is admittedly the finest 
pencil it is possible to 
make.
If. you like a thick soft 
lead that marks so that 
you can read the writing 
half way across the room, 
choose the soft degrees 6B5B 
4B.
Fort short-hand notes or eas5r 
writing 3B2BB (medium soft) 
are popular.
>'For sketching, general writ
ing purposes, etc. HBFH 
2H (medium) will prove 
desirable.
For drafting, a medium 
hard pencil gives the best re
sults and youll like 
3H4H5H6H.
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7HSH 
9H are available, rnrr Look for the distinctive f H L Lwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
apd medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and ad
dress and we shall 
be pleased to have 
sent to 
you for 
test a 
b o x of
^VENUS 
"drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
style to anotheror any language.
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine. 
Juit Turn the Knob Presto one or the other 
SimpleCompactPortable
Beautiful workbeyond compare. 
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson 
Cardinal Merry del Val 
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell 
Chancellor Rev. \i. G. Trant 
Bishop John G. Murray 
William Dean Howells 
also all Colleges and Universities 
Oifc special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
_ 545 East 69th Street s
New York Ci.y.N. Y.
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
East End. Dances g
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING 1 
in McCrory Building I]
6019-23 PENN AVENUE 1
Elevator to third floor. j|j
Mi itary Training* in Universities
Spreads Over Entire Country
In accordance with the policy of The will be held in the near future for
Tartan to -keep the students of Tech 
in touch with the movements in both 
action and sentiment regarding the 
part which colleges and universities 
throughout the country are playing in 
the question of national prepareduess, 
the following extracts of articles and 
editorials from representative college 
papers are printed:
Lafayette Organizes Guard.
Fafayette Weekly:
The Lafayette Home Guard, compos
ed of Lafayette undergraduates, train
ed by competent military officers, and 
authorized by the government of the 
United States, seems, in view of cer
tain r.ecent developments to be a real
ity. It is likely that if this organiza
tion is formed, it will be a part of 
the Junior Officers Reserve Corps, 
national organization under the charge 
of Major Dorey. The government will 
send to Lafayette an officer who will 
be competent to take entire charge of 
the military training provided one 
hundred or more men elect to join the 
corps, judging from the amount of 
spirit that was demonstrated at the 
last meeting of the student body, far 
more than the required hundred will 
volunteer. It was at this meeting 
which took place last Wednesday, that 
the student body formally passed the 
resolutions, initiating the formation 
of a body of volunteers to be known as 
the Lafayette Home Guard. The res
olutions further'qualified this body as 
one to be trained by officers of the reg
ular army and to be placed at the dis
posal of the government should condi
tions warrant so doing. It seems sin
gularly fitting that an institution bear
ing the name of one of the greatest 
of patriots should take this action at 
this hour of national crisis.
Syracuse Votes Military Training.
Syracuse Daily Orange:
Syracuse University students are in 
favor of military training. They were 
given an opportunity to express their 
opinion at the second semester elec
tions yesterday and they made the 
most of the opportunity, men and wo
men alike voted favorably in the pro
portion of five and one-half to one.
But the result of the vote yesterday 
does not mean that military training 
is to be established hereyet. The 
students have gone as far as they can 
go. The whole matter is now up to 
the administration.
If the University trustees are dis
posed to establish military training 
here they will not be taking a "war
like and militaristic step as the un
patriotic pacifists might characterize 
it. They will be doing something that 
nearly one hundred other colleges and 
universities have already done. They 
will be fulfilling a duty to the nation 
a duty which the spirit of patriotism 
imbues in every American.
Syracuse University students want 
military training. Are they going to 
get it?
J. A. G.
Stevens Institute of Technology Holds 
Mass Meeting.
Stevens Stude:
Although the question of military 
service is considered to be essentially 
a matter for the senior class, the Coun
cil at its first meeting of the semester 
deemed it advisable that a general 
mass meeting of students be called, in 
which the entire college could be giv
en a general outline of the engineers 
place in time of war.
Men and Women at Syracuse Univer
sity Favor Military Training.
Syracuse Daily Orange:
Syracuse Universitys student body 
expressed themselves highly in favor 
of the establishment of a military 
training course in the University, at 
the spring class elections yesterday, 
the men voting by a five and a half to 
one ratio in its favor and the women 
carrying the proposition by a five to 
one proposition. The first proposition 
pertaining to the establishment of two 
years' military training in the Univer
sity was carried by a grand total vote 
of 683 to 124, the mens vote being 
547 to 100 and the womens 136 to 24 
in its favor. The vote on the estab
lishment of a compulsory course re
sulted with nearly fifty per cent of the 
grand total in its favor, the men voting 
284 to 267 and the women 85 to 54 on 
the question. A grand total vote of 
433 to 171 favored the establishment 
of elective training in the University. 
The men voted 347 to 139 and the 
women 86 to 32 on the optional train
ing question.
The freshman class voted highest 
in favor of the military training ques
tion with the sophomore class a close 
second in its favor.
Liberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET  
Corner of Wlnthrop Street [a 
Bell Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 3 
DELIVERED 1
Penn State Men Officers in Mahine 
Corps.
Penn State Collegian:
Penn State men who desire to en
ter the military service of the United 
States according to a report received 
by the Captain Ahrends, are now af
forded an unusually good opportunity 
to secure commissions as second lieu
tenants in the Marine Corps. This op
portunity has come aoout through the 
increase in the Marine Corps 
under the provisions of the 
Naval Appropriation bill ap
proved by the President last Au
gust. In order that full quota of com
missioned officers may be secured for 
the Corps, competitive examinations
young men in civil life who desire to 
enter this branch of the military serv
ice.
Officers of the Marine Corps are ap
pointed from the following sources:
(1) Graduates of the Naval Academy,
(2) Meritorious noncommissioned of
ficers of the Marine Corps, (3) Civil 
life. A number of appointments have 
already been made since the passage 
of the new National Act, but there is 
still a good opportunity for young men 
in civil life to secure commissions.
College Men Manted.
In issuing commissions, the appoint
ment of graduates of well recognized 
colleges and universities is especially 
desired. This is particularly true with 
regard to those graduates who have 
taken the course in military instruc
tion under the supervision of an officer 
of the Army. Such men will be exempt
ed from examination in the following 
subjects: English Grammar, Geog
raphy, History, Constitutional Law and 
Arithmetic, their diplomas and the rec
ommendation of the commandant be
ing accepted in place of the examina
tion. A physical examination will be 
required, however.
Yale Very Active.
The following is an editorial in part 
from the Yale Daily News:
Last year five hundred Yale men, in
cluding both graduates and undergrad
uates served with the Tenth Field Ar
tillery of the Connecticut National 
Guard. During the summer Aerial 
Coast Patrol No. 1, composed chiefly 
of Yale students, was organized for 
expert aerial service, and this fall as
sisted in the submarine maneuvers 
held off New London by the United 
States Navy. A great many members 
of the University hold diplomas and 
certificates awarded by those in 
charge of summer . army training 
camps and civilian naval cruises, 
stating the suitability of the recipient 
Lor a commission in the Army or Navy 
as the case may be. Less than a month 
ago, a straw vote obtained here, re
sulted in a four-fifths ballot in favor 
of universal compulsory military ser
vice. At present there are a good deal 
over two hundred undergraduates en
listed in the Yale Reserve Officers 
Training Corps for Artillery and steps 
are being taken toward the organiza
tion of a Yale Aero Corps and a Yale 
Motor-boat Patrol.
These facts illustrate clearly the 
earnest and true desire on the part of 
Yale men to be able to stand by their 
country in her possible hour of need 
and1 to show to the Government au
thorities their readiness and willing
ness to serve the nation in the mo
ment of peril. This attitude further 
indicates a definite realization of the 
need of an efficient preparedness 
scheme in the United States; and that 
in spite of the earnest efforts of ln,ternational-disarmament idealists to stem 
the tide of popular opinion, the ma
jority of the undergraduate body is 
influenced by things practical. It Is a 
fine thing to know that University 
students are so interested in the 
events going on outside the college 
walls. It is a finer thing to know that 
so many stand ready in tile ve;ry 
shadow of war to servtr thelr country 
unhesitatingly and unselfishly. And 
it is peculiarly satisfying to Yale men 
to realize that Yale is doing her bit.
citizen should be willing to contribute 
his personal service to the common de
fense.
Thomas A. Edison.
"I am strongly in' favor of compul
sory military education for every 
healthy young man in the United 
States. Six weeks in each year for 
five years.
TAU CAMMA PHI 
ENTERTAINS FRIENDS
Beneath a cloud of blue smdke, 
members and guests of Tan Gamma 
Phi Fraternity enjoyed a very inter
esting evening last Thursday. An orig
inal and amusing minstrel troupe 
began the evenings entertainment, 
which was supplemented with selec
tions by an orchestra. Refreshments 
and vigorous vocal exercise completed 
the evening's program.
TECH BIBLECLASSELECTS Y. M. C. A. BELEGATE
At the invitation of the Y. M. C. A., 
the Tech Bible Class of the First Bap
tist Church of Pittsburgh have elected 
Mr. Fred E. Mitchell torepresent the 
class on the Tech Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.
The class appreciates the recogni
tion and hopes to co-operate with the 
Y. M. C. A. in its religious work at 
Tech.
NIGHT WATCHMAN IS 
VICTIM OF PNEUMONIA
Mr. Samuel Spence, for six years 
head night watchman of the Indus
tries and Administration Buildings 
and Machinery Hall, passed away 
Tuesday evening, February 27, a vic
tim of pneumonia.
Mr. Spence was a faithful and trust
worthy employe, always congenial and 
willing to assist the students. He was 
especially popular among the night 
students, with whom he came in 
closest contact, and his loss will be 
keenly felt, not only by the students, 
but by the school as a whole.
The funeral services were held on 
Thursday evening, at the home ol! Mr. 
Meanor, 5134 Wood lawn avenue, a 
son-in-law of Mr. Spences with whom 
he resided, the Revs. J. B. Wilson and 
W. Boettioher officiating, and were at
tended by many friends and relatives 
of the deceased. The interment i oc
curred Friday afternoon. Messrs/Dosey, Taylor, Hepburn, Young, Dodds 
and Plouts, of, the Industries School 
faculty, acted as pallbearers, and Dean 
Connelley represented the school.
THISTLE ENTERS LAST
STAGE OF FORMATION
FAMOUS AMERICANS IN
FAVOR OF TRAINING
George Washington.
"A free people ought not only to be 
armed, but disciplined.
Thomas Jefferson.
I think the truth must now be 
obvious that we cannot be defended 
but by making every citizen a soldier.
James Madison.
An efficient militia is authorized 
and contemplated by the Constitution 
and required by the spirit and safety 
of free government.
Woodrow Wilson.
We must depend in every time of 
National peril, in the future as in the 
past, not upon a standing army, but 
upon a citizenry trained and accustom
ed to arms.
Theodore Roosevelt.
I believe in universal service based 
upon universal training.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
glneer, attends dances nearly every 
evening, there will bo a Society and 
Club section.
The Art Department lias produced 
more snappy Illustrations for this 
Thistle than in several years past put 
together. In keeping with these pro
gressive features, the Fraternity sec
tion has been providod with an alto
gether now and original setting like 
nothing else seen in our year books. 
The entire football season in pictures, 
class and course pictures, llie joke and 
cartoon sections, ail bear out the other 
divisions in their successful appeal to 
the .interest of every Tech man and 
woman.
An appropriate setting is necessary 
for such wealth of material, and this 
is provided by the dark green, basket 
weave cloth binding, with bevel edges, 
panel designs and color plates on the 
cover.
A little material for the Thistle re
mains out and the editors urge the stu
dents to bring this in promptly, since 
the book must go to press on March 
10. And about that receipt. There re
main only two days more In which you 
can get the Thistle, and if you fail to 
get one on those days, you will find 
it necessary to go without the 1917 
Thistle all the rest of your daysand 
that would be a calamity.
Doctor Charles Eliot.
The United States must build a 
vast democratic army to protect itself 
from invasion and to do its duty in the 
world.
Rupert Blue, Surgeon General of the 
United States Public Health 
Service.
I believe a system under which all 
young men of this country could re
ceive military training would be of 
inestimable value."
John Grier Hibben, President of 
Princeton University.
I am very glad to express to you my 
conviction that we need In this coun
try universal training.
Newton Diehl Baker, Secretary of War.
I cannot believe that I have the 
right to expect another man to defend 
my home and family if I am unwilling 
to defend them myself. It is essen
tially a democratic principle that every
ASSEMBLY ADDRESSED 
BY/NOTED SOCIOLOGIST
The Sociological Director of the 
Ellsworth Collieries Co., of Ellsworth. 
Pa., Mr. E. E. Bach, addressed the. In
dustries students at Assembly last 
week. His lecture was illustrated by 
fifty slides and a thousand feet of film. 
His pictures depicted the conditions in 
and around the miners' homes before 
and after the department of which he 
Is the head took charge.
Some of the scenes showed a hol
iday celebration in which the different 
nationalities represented by the towns 
population took part in native cos
tume.
The hospitals, schools, playgrounds, 
public buildings and company houses 
were shown on the screen.
Mr. Bach's talk was emphasized fre
quently by humorous stories and anec
dotes. His audience enjoyed his lec
ture greatly.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION"
| Browning, King & Co.
X CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS
$ FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDRENx *?439-441 WOOD STREET X
Carnegie Institute of Technology
T
HE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOlLers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses In science in preparation for teaching or 
for research.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men and women, leading to the degree oil Bachelor 
of Arts.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training Indus
trial teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science In 
Industrial Education. Short courses of eight months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, eleotrlc 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying for more ma
turo applicants who have had some experience in theso trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a 
regular day course of gonoral training, with particular emphasis 
on homo-making, followed by specialized training in household 
economics, secretarial economics, costume economics, homo arts 
and crafts, general Hfclonco, or social work, leading to I,ho degree 
of Bachelor ol! Science. Also coursos for the training of teachers 
In the above subjects.
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night coursos in prac
tically all of the abpvo subjocts to provido educational opportu
nities for those who are at work during the day.
FeesThe total Ileos for a day course are $48.00 a year for 
rosldonts of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-resldonts. The total 
foes for night courses are $:i(!.00 for residents and $18.00 for nonroi Idents. ------------------------------
For further information addrosn Registrar, Cnrnegle Instituto 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS.
JAMES PARISI
Prompt Service
MODERN SHOE REPAIRING 
AM Work Guaranted.
217 ATWOOD STREET i
/SMSM3SMSMSM3M3M3M3M!M3Mi3M3/!M3M3/c!M2M3MSM3MSMSM3M2MSMc!/SJ
EMSJ3J3M3/3M3J3J3M3/ti!M3M3M2M3M3/Sl , 
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
f3M3J3M2Mc3/3MSM3M3M3/3M3MSMc!Mcl
^ FLOWERS for all OCCASION8
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS 
6936 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avenue p
rnJ/fnfS/3/Sir5/r5/c3/f9/f3/3/cn/3fiD/G}/n]fi5/iQ/S/iiyul/3ik
L.XIN2CIARR
Pierpont. Siviter H. Co., |
ENGRAVING PRINTING
LITHOGRAPHING EMB08SING g 
Engraved Calling Carda 
Wedding Invitations 
Announcements
Dance Programs 
Phone 358 Hiland.
119 SHADY AVENUE
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
504-506 Foderai Street, 
North Side
i3/uI/S//i3/3/li!/iifcI/3/H/l/i]/i/yIfiiylJin/3icIJyc?J3/^
I*/Bar*:
H.JSJCOBELiAIARy COMMI'KCI/MIMOTOGIiAPIILR fWOOD CUTS, ZI NC li-TCI 11 NO, 11 ALP-TON liboth mia ENGRAVE!?
7IIPCNN AVI! PTT5IVR.GFI,P/1.S
CF'
pifnjia/ifpfrDiniiiqjinj
THIS IS THE LAST WEEK YOU CAN BUY YOUR THISTLE

---------------------------------------------------

Murad adver
tising understates 
rather than ex
aggerates.
5Spr eadof5M
The principal differ
ence between tilsm and 
most 25 Cent cigarettes 
is Quality  m favor of 
Murad.
REMEMBERTurkish tobacco is 
the worlds most 
famous tobacco for 
cigarettes.
fORM FIT
oP A TALBOT
EGS TUUFH
fonnfit COLLARS
are cum cut to ft the. 
shoulders perfectly
Cluett, poabody 6TCo:lnc.^M.ikcrs
1^IF Y0U ARE DISSAT,SFr|ED J'with your income ask about our agency H
/t&r contract which gives good opportunities i f ^or Present anc* future. ^
U( JSpJ FRANK C. PIERSON, Manager 1
Western Penna. Agency, Ordinary Dept. ^
Tenth Floor Diamond Bank Building: b
XgffiallnPITTSBURGH, PA. M.
M2M2M3i3MSMSM3MSM3M3i3M2M3MSM3M3MSM3M2MSi3M3MSJ3J3M3M3M3M2J
Page FourTHE TARTANWednesday, March 7, 1917
,1IIIIII!!III!1IIIII|]III]IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1I1IIII1I|[IIIIIIIIIIIII]IIII1III]IIII]III!I!II]II[II!II!!II11W
"ONE DOLLAR THE BOX
1916 was the Ban
ner Year in the sale 
of R. V. B. Choco
lates.
It was far in the 
lead in all Points 
from which a Box of 
Chocolates could be 
judged.
SALES
QUALITY
APPEARANCE
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENT
YFUF,T
The Personal Writing Mnchlne 
So simple In conntruotlon 
and operation that any
one enn use It without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 0 POUND8 
Price T'GO
Cnll 3'13 Court or Wrlto
Standard Typowrltor Co.
120 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION
s Iroquois Block. jg
!M33JclMcUc!MSMM3M3Mc!M3MSM2M2M
 STUDENT LUNCHEON 5 
Milk or Coffee, 5c
Pic, Sc per cut 
1 Hot Chocolate, 10c
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 6c 
!! Rolls and Butter, 5c
Ice Cream, 10c 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET
Forbes Quality
FORBE8 and BOUQUET 8TS 
LUNCH AND SODA
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC GIVES THIRD CONCERT
The third in the series of even con
certs scheduled for the Department of 
Music was given Friday afternoon in 
the Theater of School of Applied De
sign at 4 oclock. The program offered 
was unique, being devoted largely to 
numbers for wood-wlnd instruments. 
The opening number, "An Old French 
Dance," by Selierrer, scored for ilute, 
oboe, two clarinets, French horn and 
bassoon, and the final number, Sex
tette, Op. <, by Thu 111, scored for the 
same instruments, were delightful in 
their (jualntness and were the popular 
numbers, judging from the hearty and 
vigorous applause which they elicited. 
The oboe work by Mr. Sml Wagner 
was especially noticeable, it being a 
very difficult instrument to master. 
Its voice lends a sylvan character to 
a composition wherever it intrudes, 
suggesting shepherds with their flocks 
and open fields.
The Saint-Sans Romance, for 
flute and piano (-Mr. Frohman Foster) 
was one of the really lovely numbers 
on the program, and was most enthu
siastically received.
The Ilaydn Trio No. 4, for cel-lo 
and piano, brought forward a new can
didate for favor, Miss Allx Einert. Her 
work shows an intelligent appreciation 
of her instrument and promise for the 
future.
Trio No. 4, (Mozart), for piano, clar
inet and viola (Miss Eyles, Mr. Amato 
and Mr. Brown) was very enjoyable. 
The rather unusual ensemble of in
struments being very interesting as 
they were handled with considerable 
skill.
The Beethoven Trio, for two clar
inets and bassoon, was somewhat 
startling in its strangeness. One hard
ly felt sufficiently familiar with the 
unique combination to pass opinion on 
the performance more than tp say that 
it was interesting.
The next concert will be given on 
the evening of Sunday, March 25, when 
a complete orchestral program will be 
presented, Mr. J. Vick O'Brien con
ducting.
Mr. OBrien's friends and admirers 
will be interested to note that his 
composition, Fantasie-Iinpromptu, 
for piano, has been put on the pro
gram of the concert to be given by the 
Musicians Club of Pittsburgh, before 
the Music Section of the Academy of 
Science and Art, on March (5, in Car
negie Lecture Hall.
EASY VICTORY GAINED
OVER WESTMINSTER
(Continued From Pago One.) 
down on the roll as one of the gamest 
crowds that ever played on the Tech 
floor, for they played even in the face 
of a terrible defeat right up to the 
last ditch. It is to be hoped that next 
year basketball will take on more 
definite proportions at Westminster, 
and wo may again see them on the 
homo floor.
Whom to pick as tli'o star of the 
evening for Tech is a job that will 
havo to be delegated to some one else. 
Not a fault could be found with any
one. To Abrams, in view of his clever 
foul shooting (making elovon out of 
a possible Ilf toon) go the honors for 
points during the evening. Greene 
followed Abrams 17 closely with 
twelve points. Finlay and Grot/lor 
had "hammer and tongs" Hying all the 
time, much to the annoyance of l.lieir 
opponehts, who were unable to follow 
them around the corners.
With the coming of the Pitt game 
the Plaid followers are hoping more 
than over that this meeting with the 
ancient rivals will be the downfall of 
the Blue and Gold. And indications 
point that way, for, while Pitt is tak
ing on the appearance of a mighty 
slump, Tech is slipping into a stride, 
which, if assumed earlier in the sea
son, would have meant a champion 
team. The game:
Tech4S. Westminster15.
Green .................F............... Loglaery
Abrahms _______F.............Armstrong
Gretzler.............C.....................Ladley
Foxen.................G................. Wi truer
Finlay.................G.....................Pitzer
SubstitutesSlater for Capt; Green; 
Goth for Abrahms; Wean for Finlay.
Field goalsGreen, 6; Abrams, 3; 
Gretzler, 6; Finlay, 4; Ladley, 4; Bennet, 1.
Foul goalsAbrahms, 11 out of 15; 
Slater, 1 out of 1; Ladley, 2 out of 2; 
Armstrong, 0 out of 4; Witmer, 3 out 
of 3.
RefereeMantel, Penn State.
FOUR PLEBE CLASSES PLAN EASTER DANCE
Plans are under way for a dance at 
the Union, which will be given by the 
Plebe classes of the four schools. The 
date is as yet. undecided, hut It is 
thought that It will bo held just be
fore the Hus ter recoss. All first-year 
students should boost, this idea in 
their schools, as it is inter-school nf 
fairs which make for a more united 
Tech.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
"THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
 SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
PLEBES WIN AND LOSE 
DURING PAST WEEK
Casino Tech Victim, While 
New Castle C. S. Five 
Is Victor
In a rough preliminary to the TechWestminster game, Saturday night, 
the Skibo Plebe Reserves -defeated 
Casino Tech 28 to 14. Quicker passing 
and more speed in every way than 
shown by Casino, was responsible for 
the Skibos winning. The Westinghouse Night School was held to three 
field goals by our yearlings. Doherty 
starred for the Plaid five, with three 
field goals, and Wilkinson played best 
for Casino.
Friday night the Plebes played the 
New Castle Carnegie Steel Co. five 
and were nosed out 44 to 43. Field 
goals were plentiful on both sides, 
New Castle getting 20 and Tech 18. 
Gens and Slater performed brilliantly 
for the Plebes and McGranahan and 
Wadsworth for Carnegie Steel. The 
line-up:
Tech Res.43. Car. Steel44.
Slater ...................F.......... Wadsworth
Gens ....................F........ McGranahan
Bacon ..................C......................Veach
Wire (Capt) ......G..................... Boyle
Marshall ....;.. .G....................Bechtel
Field goalsGens, 9; Slater, 4; Ba
con, 2; Wire, 1; Marshall, 2; McGran
ahan, 9; Wadsworth, 8; Veach, 3.
FoulsSlater, 7 out of 13; Wads
worth, 4 out of 7.
RefereePackard.
SubstitutesDort for Boyle.
Tech. Res.28. Cas. Tech14.
Gens ....................F............ Fairgrieve
Bacon..................F........ Chamberlain
Wire ....................C...............Wilkinson
Cruse .................G...........Van Losson
Roberts ...............G........... McGlashan
Field goalsDoherty, 3; Gens, 2; 
Bacon, 2; Herman, 2; Wire, Fair
grieve, Chamberlain, Wilkinson.
FoulsWire, 3 out of 7; Doherty, 5 
out of 7; Wilkinson, 7 out of 17.
RefereePete Mautlie.
SubstitutesDoherty for Gens; Her
man for Roberts.
DEAN LEETE NAMED
LIBRARY DIRECTOR
(Continued from Page One) 
cessor to be a library trained man, 
but that executive ability and general 
experience are preferred to merely 
technical training in library work.
Dr. Leete received degrees from 
Colgate and Harvard universities, was 
instructor in mathematics in Pennsyl
vania State College from 1895 ,to 1898; 
assistant of mathematics there until 
1901, then associate professor of math
ematics, secretary and registrar until 
190(5. In that year l\e came to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. He 
was registrar, then assistant director, 
and from 1908 dean of the School of 
Applied Science.
HOME CONCERT PROGRAM
DEFINITELY ARRANGED
(Continued From Page One.) 
llet, convulsed the audience. The ren
dition of The Rosary,' by the quartet, 
gave the audience pleasure. In dis
cussing the Miniature Minstrel Show, 
the writer states that, Altogether the 
minstrel show was better than many 
efforts by professionals. The music 
is now and catchy, the jokes funny, 
and the end-men funnier still.
A concert which receives such fav
orable criticism as this is surely worth 
attending. It should be doubly inter
esting to the students of the Institute 
not only because it is a good musical 
entertainment but also because it is 
presented by the leading non-athletic 
organization of the school. Tickets 
may be exchanged at the office of the 
Graduate Manager beginning Wednes
day.
PLANS FORMED FOR
CENTRAL STUDENT COUNCIL
(Continued From Page One.-) 
mittee of the following representa
tion:
2 Members of the Margaret Morrison 
School Senate.
2 Members of the Science School Or
ganization Committee.
2 Members of the Design Student Sen
ate.
2 Members from /the Industries Sen
ate.
1 Representative from the Student Ac
tivities Committee.
1 Representative from the Board of 
Control of the Athletic Association 
of the entire school.
It is further suggested that you take 
up this matter with your school sen
ate, and delogate to your representa
tivos the power to act for your school 
in drawing up the above mentioned 
constitution. The constitution when 
completed will bo referred back to 
each school for its formal approval or 
rejection.
It. is highly desirable that the plan 
be approved by the student body at 
large, and placed in operation during 
this school year; accordingly you will 
designate and instruct your repre
sentatives during the week beginning 
March 5. The first meeting will be 
held early in the following week. 
Definite advice as to the exact time 
of meeting will be given later.
Yours very truly,
T. E. ORR,. 
Seannacliie Society.
ttnntttttttttttmttntttttnttnmtttttttti ::
MELLON 
NATIONAL 
BANK
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
40 i-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
Capital . . . $6,000,000 !|
Resources Over $100,000,000 |
.__ 8!
I GET YOUR HAIR CUT
i TECH BARBER SHOP
s3 Nearest to Tech
| COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
| FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstovm 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oftaft' 
, ] . [[^ as not told by his footwearif he
I r-------7) (  n careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. liyou will buy your shoes here, youi 
may be certain of looking ail right;, 
feeling all right and impressing oth
ers with the fact that you are "!!; 
right. Our Shoes are built by some* 
of the most representative Shoe Mai*r 
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept*
1 GREGSONS
TEA ROOM AND CAKE SHOP 
| LUNCHEON12 to 2 P. M. AFTERNOON TEA3 to 5 P. M.
3 Phone 2052 Hlland 5909 PENN AVENUEi
 Do Business by Mailr
It"o profitable, with accurate limn of prospcctfl. Our catalogue contain vital inforxnaqunntity on 6,000 national mailing lists, 99% 
guaranteed. Such as:
War Material Mire. Wealthy Men
Cheese Box Mfra. Axle Grease Mfrs.
Shoo Retailers Auto Owners
Contractors Tin Can Mfrs.
Druggists Farmers, Etc.
Write for this valuahlo reference hoot; also J 
prices and samples of fac-simile letters.
Hava us write or rcvisayour Sales Letters. i 
Ross-Gould, 1019 K OIWeSL
guai
i
[p2MSM3M2MSM3JSM2M3iSM3MSM3ISj[3M2MSMSMclMSMSMSMSM3MSMMSM3/3Jf
KURTZ, LAHGBEIN & SWARTZ
535 WOOD STREET, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Slide Rules, Manheim, Polyphase,
Duplex, Log Log, Polyphase Duplex, 
Merchants, Electrical, All Fitted With 
the New Frameless Indicators
Ross - Gould
Mailing
ft-i stfsS*. Louis
ENTERPRISE CLEANING CO.
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work In Ladles, Children 
and Household Work. 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies e 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hlland 
Works 4912 Hlland.
OAKLAND 
HARDWARE CO.
Hardware and 
House-Furnishing Goods
3606 FORBES ST. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
BELEEFIELD AVENUE FIFTH AVENUE
SCHENLEY FARMS =====
Schenley Farms with its restrictions and wide, 
well lighted streets, 
its nearness to all parts of the City, 
make it the ideal home location.
We build and finance for you.
The Schenley Farms Company
_ Phone Grant 3 1414 Farmers Bank Bu'lding, City
BUY A SHIRT
UNITED DOLLAR SHIRT SHOPS, 207 Fifth Ave.
mr
m,-
I
