\ CariWie \ MellonFor the Silly Question of the Week, see Features. 
MJQ comes to Pgh. See Diversions for the full story.
SwI
The Tartan
Volume 81, Number 3Carnegie Mellon UniversitySeptember 23,1986
Problems surrounding Clyde Street
Residents, Students 
Voice Opinions
by JEAN COOKSEY 
Tartan Staffwriter
It has been one year since the university 
received the building leases on 601 and 630 
Clyde Street. While the apartments are 
extremely popular with both the students 
living there and the administration, 
disgruntled locals find the university's 
presence a severe problem. The issues 
which caused the nearby residents to take 
formal action include noise, appearance, 
parking, and security. Feelings are roughly 
divided down the middle: students are
offended, and feel that the problem is twosided, while local tax-payers see no reason 
why the University presence should dictate 
the environment in which they live. 
However, both sides agree that direct 
communication can only help, provided 
that people keep an open mind.
CMU's presence on Clyde Street is 
opposed by two neighborhood 
organizations who monitor and maintain 
the quality of life in Shadyside: The
Shadyside Action Coalition (SAC) and The 
Morewood-Shadyside Civic Association. 
Both are long-standing, respected presences 
in the area. Administration officials and 
students alike, though, are willing to 
negotiate to keep the residences under 
university control. Not only do the 66 
apartments provide much needed extra 
housing for the continuous influx of new 
and returning students, but they also 
happen to be some of the nicest, most 
spacious rooms that the university has ever 
acquired, with the possible exception of
CMU Buys 
College Club
HY KARL BARNHART
Ciartan Staffwriter
The College Club of Pittsburgh, located 
at 143 North Craig Street, has recently 
become the property of CMU. For over 
ifty years, the Club has occupied a threestory brick structure that is now too large 
to be economically maintained by the 
Club's dwindling membership of 
professional women.
But these women were faced with an 
interesting dilemma. On the one hand, 
they clearly could not afford the 
maintainance costs; but on the other, they 
still needed a place to conduct their social 
functions. That is, according to Fred 
Rogers, CMU Vice President for Business 
Affairs, when CMU proposed a unique 
solution: CMU would lease the building 
from the Club and pay the expenses to have 
it renovated while each shared its use for a 
period not to exceed five years. After this 
period it will become the property of 
CMU. Mr. Rogers would not disclose 
further monetary terms.
Under CMU auspices, the building will
house the CMU Faculty Club. This continued on page 7
TJ. Arrowsmith and Brian Lipsky discuss
Devon Towers. The Clyde Street buildings 
are also conveniently located just five 
minutes from campus, which Devon 
Towers is not. Granted, they cost more 
than their prime equivalents on campus, 
but the students feel that they are worth it.
When interviewed, both students and 
resident assistants alike admitted that 
sometimes the noise level is high, but as 
Jill Minnick, a resident in Marybelle Apts., 
puts it, "If you're working a week at CMU, 
when the weekend comes.... " Her neighbor 
T.J. Arrowsmith agrees that students "have 
to let off some steam sometime."
There are other people in the area that 
contribute to the noise problem, also. 
Boys going to and coming from Central 
Catholic High School on Fifth Avenue are 
both boisterous and careless of 
neighborhood appearances. One student on 
his way to school was seen throwing trash 
into Clyde Street. On Ellsworth Avenue,
photo by Sara Wadia
the situation
there are Carnegie Mellon students living 
in non-university housing who are often 
more noisy than those students on Clyde.
The noise problem is not limited to 
music levels. One homeowner spoke of 
hearing shouting more than once outside 
her window at 2 a.m. Another neighbor 
reported that students try to communicate, 
without the phone, between Marybelle and 
630. The worst problem, however, is the 
late night partying music. Even Carnegie 
Mellon students in Cathedral Mansions 
"have complained over the level of noise," 
says Mr. William Schlenke, the Housing 
and Zoning Committee Chairman from 
SAC.
All of the students insisted that they are 
polite to the local neighbors they see. "I 
personally say 'hi' to every neighbor that I 
see, 'cause that's just good PR. Even if 
they don't say 'hi' back, you always smile 
continued on page 3
BY ELISA SALASIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Since their acquisition over a year ago, 
Carnegie Mellon's Clyde street apartments 
have been a source of growing tension 
between the university and residents of that 
area. Complaints about noise, excessive 
trash, and disorderly conduct have been 
lodged against the 141 students living in 
601 (Shadyoak Apts.), 618 (Marybelle 
Apts.), and 630 Clyde street.
Last March, Vice President of Business 
Affairs Fred Rogers met with residents of 
the area to review their concerns. As a 
result of these meetings, the university 
took several steps toward easing the 
problems. Rogers addressed these issues in 
a letter sent to neighborhood residents last 
April.
The first improvements were in the 
overall appearance of the buildings. 
Changes included "new groundskeeping 
services, including litter, sidewalk 
obstructions and snow removal, as well as 
landscaping services."
In an attempt to alleviate the noise and 
conduct problem, a security patrol was 
added to the area. The nightly patrol, 
taking place from 8:00 pm to 4:00 am, was 
hoped to provide "even better supervision 
and security in these areas."
Staff, resident assistants, and students 
who work or live on Clyde Street were also 
informed of the problem. Linda Seifert, 
Housing's Off-Campus Area Coordinator 
commented that the RA's and the residents 
are doing everything possible to ease the 
situation - but that just a few students can 
continued on page 2
Fraternity Brothers Stabbed During Party
BY JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Two Delta Upsilon fraternity brothers 
were injured by a party crasher carrying a 
knife on Sunday, September 14 at a Delta 
Upsilon rush party.
At 3:08 a.m., at least two people who 
were not Carnegie Mellon students tried to 
crash the DU "Black and White" party. The 
brothers who were patrolling the front door 
of the house refused to let the men in 
because the men were not on the guest list 
(only CMU students could attend). The 
crashers then went "sneaking" around to the 
back entrance of the house where they were 
again refused entrance.
Paul Paridon, one of the victims, said that 
the crashers then began shouting 
obscenities at the brothers and the 
commotion soon "spilled into the parking 
lot." At that point, according to Paridon, 
"one guy pulled out a knife but we (the 
fraternity brothers) stood firm. Then a 
buddy of [the assailant] shoved me." A DU 
alumnist grabbed "the guy who shoved me, 
and the guy with the knife hit me with it."
Paridon recieved a severe cut above the 
bridge of his nose were the assailant hit 
him with the back of the knife. Another
brother was then slashed on the arm with 
the blade itself. There are no reports of 
any one punching or hitting anyone else.
Campus Security arrived based on a call 
they received from someone who had 
observed the crashers move around to the 
back entrance. The officers got to the scene 
just after the Paridon and the other DU were 
injured, according to Paridon. The assailant 
"ducked into a car and tried to ditch the 
knife in it." Paridon added that, "I'm not 
even sure if the car was his." Police 
searched the assailant and found nothing, 
"but they found the knife in the car," said 
Paridon. Apparently, the other crashers fled 
the scene.
Paridon was taken to Presbyteran Hospital 
where he received 18 stitches and was 
released. The other brother received a "two 
inch cut on the rist," according to police 
records but did not require stitches.
Lt. Suber, Acting Chief of Campus 
Police, said that the assailant was charged 
with aggrevated assault, disorderly conduct, 
possession of an offensive weapon, reckless 
endangerment, and trespassing. He was the 
only one of the intruders who was arrested.
The arrested suspect was turned over to the 
Pittsburgh Police Department. He had his
hearing on Thursday, September 18. Both 
Paridon and the other DU brother who was 
injured testified in addition to several other 
witnesses. The suspect will be arraigned in 
November unless he pleads guilty to the 
charges.
Dean of Student Affairs, Walter, 
commented on the incident by saying, "[the 
brothers at DU] were doing what they and 
the school believes is right" in trying to 
keep "outsiders" from getting involved with 
school and student functions. He added 
that, "This school is not big enough" for 
the people in it now, "we must be 
protective."
There will be extra security for future 
fraternity parties according to Campus 
Police, Dean Walter, and the frats 
themselves. Due to the incident at DU, all 
of the fraternities have chipped in to hire an 
off duty campus policeman to patrol the 
quad during the last nights of the rush 
parties. Paridon said that DU will boost up 
the guards at the doors, normally there are 
at least 2 or 3 brothers keeping watch; this 
number will be increased to 4 or 5. They 
will also construct a barricade for the back 
entrance. Acting Chief Suber said that all 
fraternity security patrols will be stepped 
up.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanSeptember 23, 1986
An underground Arab terrorist 
organization is claiming responsibility for 
the wave of deadly bombings in Paris. And 
in a message to a Western news agency in 
Beiruit today, the group warned there is 
still more to come unless terrorists jailed in 
France are released.
United Nations officials in Lebanon say 
guerrillas fired a Soviet-designed rocket into 
the bedroom of a French peacekeeping unit, 
wounding five soldierstwo seriously. The 
U.N. secretary general is threatening to 
withdraw the peacekeeping forces to prevent 
further casualties.
Typhoon "Abby" is now a tropical storm 
heading toward Japan. But at its strongest it 
killed 13 people and left 81 million dollars' 
damage in Taiwan. Abby poured 40 inches 
of rain onto some areas of Taiwan. Ruining 
148,000 acres of rice paddies, fruit tress and 
other crops.
The highest-level meeting to date between 
the U.S. and the main guerrrilla group 
fighting South Africa's white-led 
government has been held in London. A 
State Department official says U.S. envoy 
Chester Crocker spoke Saturday with 
African National Congress leader Oliver 
Tambo. President Reagan has opposed 
junitive sanctions against South Africa.
And the A.N.C. says Saturday's talks were 
"candid."
The U.S. and Soviet Union are 
continuing their highest level talks this 
year. Saturday's session in Washington 
between Secretary of State George Shultz 
and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard 
Shevardnadze was the last of the two-day 
conference. And a U.S. official says there 
won't be any word if progress was made 
until they're over. Early on, the U.S. 
pressed the case of American journalist 
Nicholas Daniloff, who's accused in 
Moscow of espionage. The aim of the 
meeting appears to reach an understanding 
to pave the way for a summit.
Philippine President Corazon Aquino had 
a joyful homecoming in Massachusetts, 
where she and her late husband Benigno 
lived in self-imposed exile for three years. 
She received a degree at Boston University, 
and in a speech compared her slain husband 
to assassinated American leaders John F. 
Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr.
Britain's Foreign Secretary met Saturday 
with the president of the African National 
Congress. It's the highest level encounter 
yet between the Thatcher government and 
the South African guerrilla group. 
Descriptions of the session suggest there 
was disagreement. The A.N.C. rejects 
demands by Britain and others against the 
use of violence.
Javier Perez De Cuellar savs withdrawing
U.N. peacekeepers from Southern Lebanon 
can only make things worsebut he says 
he'll do it to protect the troops, the U.N. 
chief told the security council that attacks 
have been up because of Israel's refusal to 
pull out of the region. He called for the 
council to pressure Israel to clear out.
The lawyer for former Teamsters Union 
official Richard Fitzsimmons says he 
intends to appeal a conviction on charges of 
conspiracy, racketeering and bribery. The 
son of former Teamsters President Frank 
Fitzsimmons and another former official 
were found guilty in Detroit Friday of 
steering business to a Chicago health care 
company in return for favors and cash.
The government in getting tough on drug 
abuse. So says Senator Alan Cranston, the 
California Democrat spoke on his party's 
anti-drug legislation during the Democrats' 
weekly radio address. Cranston says a 
Democratic bill in the Senate is the most 
far-reaching and humane drug control 
measure ever. And he asserted that President 
Reagan's anti-drug proposal is "more 
limited."
President Reagan has saluted Black 
colleges and universities as "an important 
and irreplaceable pillar" in higher education
Ifour basic 
problem:
Physics 
Genetics 
Statistics 
Calculus
Complex Numbers 
Analytical Geometry 
Stress Analysis 
Organic Chemistry 
Probability
Gaussian Transformations
Differential Equations
Titrations
Electromagnetics
Thermodynamics
Fluid Mechanics
Etc., etc., etc....
Your BASIC
solution:
 * W
W* MiS *** *7 '*' i T  i ~
WSi ***<?&% .*~%i r--~; *-  ^*M W&
$&> * .X <* ^  t ,'v I * yx
^*> % 
*** *****  M ****  y -S: ?::?& ? &
Introducing BASICALC. The new 
Texas Instruments programmable calculator.
Now theres a programmable scientific calculator 
that solves even the most complex math, engi
neering and science problems in a BASIC way. 
The TI-74 BASICALC.
Unlike most other programmable calculators 
that require you to learn a new, complicated 
system of keystroke commands-in effect, a new
Your basic specs:
 Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer 8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM
 70 built-in scientific functions
 Optional software cartridges for mathematics and statistics
 Optional PASCAL language cartridge
 Optional printer and cassette interface
programming language-the TI-74 BASICALC 
allows you to use the BASIC language program
ming you already know.
But dont let the BASICALCs ease of opera
tion fool you. It also has more calculating power 
than comparably-priced programmables. And a 
variety of options, like software cartridges, are 
available that make it even more powerful and 
convenient.
Stop by and see the TI-74 BASICALC for 
yourself. In basic terms, what it really offers you 
is a bargain. _
Thear t nIrsboyhIsr
and the battle against justice in America 
Reagan addressed presidents of historically 
Black colleges and universities Friday. He 
says their institutions award 40 percent of 
all degrees earned by Black students in the 
United States. That includes 85 percent of I 
the Black physicians and 40 percent of the * 
black attorneys.
The President noted the first black I 
collegeCheyney University, near 
Philadelphiaopened its doors in 1837. He 
called upon education officials to join his 
campaign against illegal drugs, saying the 
problem faces all Americans.
The stock market lost nearly 12 points 
Friday, but there was no sign of the 
volatility at the closing bell that often 
occurs with the so-called "triple witching 
hour." For the week, the dow industrials 
lost nearly four points.
The dollar was lower against other major 
currencies in New York Friday. The price 
of gold gained 18 dollars and 20 cents in 
New York to $436 an ounce.
President Reagan made another pitch for 
tax reform in his weekly radio address 
Sunday. He said the tax overhaul bill 
awaiting final action by Congress will 
make U.S. businesses more competitive 
overseas and result in more jobs at 
homebecause it eliminates unproductive 
tax shelters.
PITTSBURGHThe United Steelworkers 
say they're escalating their campaign 
against U.S.X. Corporation in their 51-day 
labor dispute. The union says it wants 
Mellon Bank to refuse credit to the 
steelmaker during the work stoppage. 
Union officials aren't saying, however, 
what steps they might take against Mellon 
if the bank doesn't go along with the idea. 
Mellon officials say they haven't had time 
to fully review the request.
HARRISBURGThere's new debate in 
Pennsylvania over whether some public 
officials should be required to undergo drug 
tests. That stems from the resignation of 
thestate's chief criminal prosecutor Richard 
guida amid allegations that he used cocaine. 
Republican Gubernatorial candidate 
William Scranton says he thinks anyone in 
high-level positions should prove they are 
not involved with illegal drugs, but 
Democratic House member Mark Cohen 
says he's working on legislation that would 
restrict use of the tests.
Clyde Street Problems
continued from page 1
make it rough for everyone else.
While the steps outlined above will help, 
the neighborhood and the university realize 
that they don't offer a complete solution to 
the problems caused by such a large 
number of students concentrated in one 
area. Thus, several other measures are 
currently being taken towards identifying 
acceptable solutions.
Currently, an "overall negotiating group" 
is being formed with representatives from 
the neighborhood, the city, and the 
university. Over the next two months, the >. 
group will be investigating both long and 
short range alternatives. Long range plans 
include a possible revision of the master 
plan to allow for the construction of a new 
dormitory on campus, thus reducing the 
need for so much off-campus housing.
Since any construction would not be 
finished for at least several years, shortrange goals are aimed at finding the best 
ways in which the off-campus students and 
non-university residents of the area can 
co-exist with as few problems as possible. 
Aesthetic and security measures will 
continue to be implemented, and it is hoped 
that the students themselves will make 
every effort to behave in a neighborly 
fashion.
Rogers believes that acceptable solutions 
to the off-campus housing problem can, 
through mutual effort, be agreed upon 
within the next two months.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23,1986The TartanPage 3
DEMO STUDIO
Quality Recording You Can Afford
1052 Franklin Drive
IAru' ID\A/IM Bethel Park*PA 15102.JACK IRWIN_______________(412)835-6398
Cuts $14-$16
Mon.-Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Open Sunday 
12 - 5
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
Be a Road Scholar
Get an "A" in getting around You pay for gas used and return < M ^
town. You can rent a car if you're car to renting location. Most M pER DAY
18 or older, have a valid driver's major credit cards accepted. m WEEKENDS
license, current student I.D. and Non-discountabie rate applies to ckevy 100 miles per day indaded.\ t t l .4 11 Ckevette or similmr-size car and is subject to Additional mileage 20< Per mile.a cash deposit. Stop by and hll change wxthout motue Rates snotty lower u
out a short cash qualification ZIZZZ&JLffipZZZlZZX
form at least 24-hours in advance. 'm r',r5'"
// National Car Rental <
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
261-5500 I 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 I 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
Boss and McGill Renovated
BY AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Many changes took place at CMU over 
the summer. One of the biggest was the 
full-scale renovation of the twin hill 
dormitories, Boss and McGill. Planning for 
these changes began last December, and the 
extensive project was barely completed 
when students moved in this fall.
All of the plans came together last 
winter when the Director of Auxiliary 
Services, Oscar Mayer, brought a 
committee together to analyze plans for the 
Boss/McGill reconstrucutions. This 
committee was comprised of representatives 
fromAuxiliary Services, Design and 
Construction, Housing and the student 
body. An outside architect, Lewis Gilberti, 
was also called in for consultation on the 
project. Tom Murphy, Director of Design 
and Construction, headed this committee.
The committee considered input from 
the student representatives, as well as 
students residing in Boss and McGill, to 
pinpoint what changes would benefit the 
students most. The final decision involved 
changing the existing floor plans to make 
the rooms into singles, doubles or triples. 
The plan involved the construction of 
private baths, replacing the old community 
bathroom system.
Construction began the day after 
Commencement. Housing was forced to
kick a few late-staying students out of their 
rooms to start the remodeling. Tedco 
construction worked up to sixteen hours a 
day over the summer to have the dorms 
ready for the fall semester. As students were 
arriving for Freshman Camp, the workers 
were finishing carpeting and painting.
Tom Murphy commented that the only 
parts retained fron the old dorms are the 
walls, windows and concrete floors. New 
plumbing was installed in the new private 
baths, shared by five to six students. 
Housing ordered customized furniture for 
each room and for the newly-constructed 
student lounges. Mini-PC clusters were 
installed on the ground floor of each dorm. 
In addition, each room has computer 
wiring.
The dorms now comply with 
Pittsburghs latest fire ratings and safety 
controls. Also, both dorms have special 
handicap access. A specially designed room 
with a bathroom and furniture for the 
handicapped is on the first floor of each 
building.
Murphy estimates the project cost 
$1,800,000. There are still a few more 
improvements to be made. The mechanical 
room in the basement will be completed by 
the end of September. Finally, the 
landscaping around the dorms will be 
finished in late fall or early spring.
Clyde Street Residents Give Opinions
continued from page 1
and say 'hi1, cause that way they'll be nice 
to us." These are the thoughts of a 
freshman in Marybelle, T.J. Arrowsmith.
Students don't see the point of removing 
university housing and replacing resident 
assistants with private landlords. Brian 
Lipsky states," I don't think it would make 
much of a difference either way. I don't see 
how it's going to change; there's no one 
here that I know that's going to get kicked 
out either way." Another student who lives 
in Marybelle reasons, J'The RA's job is to 
monitor us and keep us quiet, and to make 
sure that we dont break any of the housing 
rules. That's the same as a landlord."
Students likewise have problems with 
the neighbors that they feel are important.
Students in Marybelle complain about 
delivery trucks that rumble down the 
driveway behind Cathedral Mansions at 
early hours in the morning. They also are 
insulted that neighbors disregard the 
students' property when they let their dogs 
urinate on the lawn beside 601 Clyde 
Street. It is unfair, they feel, that the 
neighbors deface the students' only 
legitimate outdoor social area, while telling 
them not to play in the streets.
Students also have lost faith in the 
Housing Office. Because of the sensitivity 
of the issue, many university residents 
think that their normal freedoms have been 
curbed unjustly. One student speaks of a 
party he tried to organize last spring. Even 
though he attempted several different plans
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevy Chevette.
Recently renovated room in Boss Hall
to please Housing Office officials, he was 
denied permission each time. Now, he 
ignores the customary channels altogether.
Very shortly after the school year began, 
the Clyde Street RAs received instructions 
to keep the noise level down, and so far, 
they feel it has worked. The RA in 601 
Clyde, Brian Trees, has urged students to 
tell each other directly about bothersome 
noise levels, because he feels that students 
listen to their peers before they listen to the 
RA's. Housing policy is also much stricter 
this year than last year: there are no
warnings.
Carin Reeves, the RA in Marybelle, says 
pressure from the students to be lenient is 
inevitable^ but that her job is to carry out 
good housing policies. She also believes 
that some of the neighbors' complaints are
justified, mainly those concerning noise 
and trash in the streets. So far this year, 
though, she has not received any phone 
calls or warnings from security. She warns 
students about the noise level before it gets 
out of hand.
In order to raise awareness of the 
problems, an informal meeting was 
organized by Fred Rogers, Vice President of 
Business Affairs for the university. It 
included residents from the Cenacle Sisters 
Retreat Home, Cathedral Mansions, the 
townhouses on Clyde Street, and RA's and 
selected CMU Clyde Street residents. "The 
main purpose of the meeting was to try to 
get them to give us ideas as to what we 
could do to lessen the problem," states 
Carin Reeves. The meeting digressed into 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 23,1986
Minutes of the Student Senate, 
September 16, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:10pm. 
Present: Ayre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank,
Friedland, Giles, Greenberg A., Hausman, 
Herron, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kombrek,
Larson, Levy, Lonsky, McDonnell, 
Mukherjee, Patnaik, Robitshek, Rocher, 
Scanlon, Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic. Exofficio members: Dean Cox, Dean
Walter, Denburg, DeLeon, Chu, Jones. 
Absent: Bollinger. Ex-officio
members:
Audience Participation: none.
Dean Walter: no report.
Dean Cox: We need more student
nominees for the Board of Trustees
Committees. Senator Greenberg: Is it a 
good idea for the administration to have 
final say about which students get on the 
committees? Dean Cox: Yes, the
administration looks for a good crosssection of the student body.
President: Jim Denburg During office 
hours the two big topics were lack of 
parking and the tailgate party. The tailgate 
party will be well advertised, T-shirts will 
be made up and food will be served.
We should pay our dues to the American 
Association of University Students and 
once again be an active member.
VP Rogers spoke at Faculty Senate on the 
South African divestment policy. A copy 
is available in the Student Senate office.
Senator Greenberg: The policy on
divestment is very weak.
SDC:Leanne Chu Resident Hall 
Judiciary Board applications are in the 
housing office.
We met with residents of Clyde St. It 
didn't go too well. Noise is the biggest 
complaint.
IFC:Teri Jones Greek Sing will be 
March 6.
Chairman:Peter Cohen Office hours 
will be in the Senate office this week and 
outside or in Skibo Grey Matter thereafter. 
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon no report. 
Academic Affairs: Want complaints. 
Campus Affairs: Tabulated ail
suggestions from happy hour and started 
working on them.
Senator Larson: Met with Physical Plant 
about the lack of lights on the track.
Senator Herron: Will you look into the
lack of lighting in We 7500?
Senator Kombrek talked to Physical Plant 
about the Baker Hall steps being slippery 
when wet. There's not much that can be 
done to remedy this.
Senator Kaplan: Please look into the rates 
for computing time vs. allocated usage. 
Funding & Recognition: The
Democratic Socialists of America was 
voted a non-funded organization.
The Thistle was granted $5,900.00 for a 
print processor.
The Student Union was recognized as a
service organization.
The Student Union was granted $595.00 for 
publication of Sept. 22 paper.
Senate was granted $350.00 for a senator to 
attend a convention of the American 
Association of University Students. The 
attending senator will be voted on next 
week.
Public Relations: Suggestions from
Happy Hour are better food for a shorter 
amount of time and more publicity. 
Reception for students interested in Senate 
will be next week at 6:30 before the 
meeting.
Senate is getting an answering machine.
The new Senate logo is "The Link."
Old Business: The proposed amendment 
of section 4B under Recognition in the 
Constitution was removed from the table. 
The motion states: Add, "political groups 
are defined as those whose primary purpose 
is to advocate specific policies or to 
advance certain political candidates." 
Motion failed.
New Business: Senator Lonsky brought 
up an amendment to be tabled until next 
week. The Motion states: All pronoun use 
which is gender specific which does not 
mention both genders must be changed to 
include both genders.
Senator Rocher reported on the 
improvements of Shuttle/Escort. 
Improvements are as follows:
1. Full time driver at night to substitute
for absent student drivers. -
2. Extended hours finals week and 1 hour 
at night because of library.
3. A student supervisor.
4. New dispatcher station and equipment.
5. One van was reconditioned last 
semester. One van will be reconditioned 
next semester.
Senator Kaplan brought up a resolution: 
We the members of the Student Senate 
strongly urge that the student members of 
the Board of Trustees Committees be 
appointed by Student Senate on the grounds 
that we can better represent the students 
opinions and views than the administration. 
Resolution failed.
Senator Kaplan brought up a new 
resolution: We the members of Student 
Senate wish to express our regret that the 
administration chooses to initiate a dry rush 
without consulting Student Senate, the 
voice of the students, on the issue. We 
urge that when future policies concerning 
students are considered, the Senate is 
consulted for input. Resolution failed. 
President Denburg urged Senate to look 
into the CMU's policy on Apartheid.
Senator Greenberg brought up a resolution 
: Senate hereby advocates the position of 
the campus wide referendum that the 
university divest immediately from those 
companies which are non-Sullivan 
signatories to follow up by investigating 
the Sullivan signatories who claim to be 
these companies which do not strictly 
comply with these principles. Debate was 
tabled.
Senator Greenberg proposed an amendment 
to be tabled until next week. The motion 
states: Add, "political groups are defined as 
those whose primary purpose is to advocate 
specific policies or to advance certain 
political candidates. A senate will not be 
considered a political organization. 
Announcements: F&R meeting Sat Rm 
112 Skibo 11:30.
Meeting Adjourned 9:15pm.
Respectfully submitted,
KD
Student Union 
Gets
Recognition
BY KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday of last week the Student 
Union was recognized as a community 
service organization by the Student Senate. 
Community service recognition allows an 
organization to ask for funds which the 
Senate votes on. And that is exactly what 
the Student Union did. They were given 
$595 to help pay for printing and 
advertising costs.
The issue was whether or not CamegieMellon needs another newspaper. After 
two Senators nearly broke out into a fight 
most of the senators agreed that the 
Student Union would not only be a good 
service in itself, but help the Tartan 
become a better paper through competition.
Other points of the meeting included 
discussing the lack of lighting around 
campus and non-funded recognition was 
given to The Democratic Socialists of 
America.
Senate postponed discussion of the 
$64,000 surplus in the budget until next 
week's meeting. Anyone having 
suggestions for the surplus is welcome to 
attend.
QUESTION #2.
HOW CAN THE BUDGET-CONSCIOUS 
COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY?
a) Save over 50% off AT&Ts weekday rates on 
out-of-state calls during nights and weekends.
b) Dont buy textbooks when Monarch Notes will do 
just fine.
c) Save 40% off AT&Ts weekday rate on out-of-state 
calls during evenings.
d) Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high quality 
service.
e) Hang around with the richest kids in school; let them 
pick up the tab whenever possible.
If youre like most college students in the western hemisphere, 
you try to make your money go a long way. Thats why you should 
know that AT&T Long Distance Service is the right choice for you.
^jcAT&T offers so many terrific values. For example, you 
can save over 50% off AT&Ts day rate on calls during 
? weekends V until 5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm 
I | to 8 am, Sunday through Friday.
* ' Call between 5 pm and 11 pm,
Sunday through Friday, and youll save 40% 
off our day rate.
Ever dial a wrong number? AT&T gives you 
immediate credit if you do. And of course, you can count on 
AT&T for clear long distance connections any place you call.
To find out more about how AT&T can help save you money, 
give us a call. With a little luck, you wont have toTiang aroundwith 
the rich kids. Call toll-free today, afc^t 800 222^3^ -^ v
AT&TThe right choice.
pssst!!!!! 
know any dirt?
Call us at 268-2111
 1906 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 5
CRIME AND INCIDENT REPORTOpinions on Clyde Street Housing
9/11 between 4:30 and 5 am INDECENT 
EXPOSURE A female resident of 
Morewood Gardens was awakened by a 
strange male student in her room. 
The door had not been locked. 
between 3 and 4:30 pm THEFT A 
wallet was stolen from an office in 
Wean Hall while the owner was out of 
the office.
9/12 between 11 and 12 am THEFT 
Unknown person(s) took $15.00, 
two $20.00 traveler's checks, a VISA 
card, and a CMU ID from a wallet 
left on a table in CFA.
4:47 pm VANDALISM Graffiti was 
found on a newly poured driveway 
between Boss and Schlag. 
approximately 9 pm BURGLARY A 
room in Mudge was broken into.
The actor entered through a window 
facing Fifth Ave. $8.00 in change 
was reported stolen. 
between 10 pm and 3:15 am 9/13 
BURGLARY A room in Mudge was 
broken into. The actor entered 
through a window. $500.00 was 
reported stolen.
between night and morning 9/13 
THEFT A bicycle chained to a 
railing in the driveway was stolen. 
The chain had been cut.
9/13 1:17 am ALLEGED ATTEMPTED 
THEFT People were seen carrying a 
couch from E-tower to the C-tower 
basement in Morewood Gardens. The 
couch was found blocking a stairwell 
the following day.
1:36 am WRECKLESS 
ENDANGERMENT 3 black males in 
a silver car stopped a student on Forbes 
near Beeler. The actors made fun of 
the student's hair, then produced a gun 
and threatened to shoot him.
1:43 am SIMPLE ASSAULT A 
student was stopped by 3 black males 
near Tech Field. The actors asked him 
for money, then punched him in the 
left eye when he said he had none.
1:57 am DISORDERLY CONDUCT 
Two students were reported to be 
swinging on the rope of the Cut 
flagpole.
approximately 11:15 pm ATTEMPTED 
THEFT 4 males were caught in the 
Morewood Gardens driveway trying to 
steal bikes. 3 were arrested for 
possessing instruments of crime (bolt 
cutters). One escaped. All 4 had been 
drinking and were underage. 
between 10 pm and 8 am 9/14 THEFT 
A bicycle chained to a lamppost near 
Fifth and Devonshire was stolen. The 
chain had been cut.
9/14 2:56 am A student was reportedly 
unconcious in the first floor B-tower 
bathroom of Schlag. The student was 
not unconcious, but had just passed 
out from excessive drinking.
3:08 am ARREST A black male was 
arrested at Delta Upsilon for stabbing 
two brothers. The actor had tried to 
gain entrance to the party, and began 
to fight with brothers when he was 
denied entrance.
3:19 am ASSAULT 3 black males in a 
brown Oldsmobile exited their car in 
the 4800 block of Forbes and knocked 
a student to the ground. The student 
was unharmed.
3:57 am INJURY A girl attending a 
party at SAE fell off of the wall on 
the house's porch and broke her back.
9/16 11:25 pm SUSPICIOUS
PERSONS Several outsiders were 
found wandering around Henderson 
Hall asking for people who did not 
exist.
Italian Hoagie 
12" whole $3.95 
6 half $2.00622-7000
Cheese Supreme 
12 - $4.40 
16 - $6.50
Free delivery within 30 Minutes
!"  coupon" ""1Our Gang
Pizza
$2.00 OFF.
Large Pizza 
622-7000
^Expires 10/9/86 j
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
Sun-Thurs. 11am - 1am 
Fri,-Sat. 11am-2am
! "couOur Gang 
Pizza
$1.00 OFF 
Small Pizza 
622-7000
jExpires 10/9/86
continued from page 3
a gripe session, with more complaints than 
solutions being discussed. "It was really 
sad," says Carin. "A lot of it was really 
awkward because a lot of it was true."
Both Carin and Brian left the meeting 
feeling more aware of the magnitude of the 
problem, and more concerned about keeping 
the peace. Brian especially feels that people 
understand the problem. "People are 
trying," he reports. "It's kind of a privilege 
to live here, and for the most part, people 
like it."
Brian and Carin seemed to think that the 
productivity of future meetings is 
debatable. Carin doubts their value because 
the problem causers would not be the ones 
to show up. Even the neighbors at the 
meeting agreed that the students that 
attended were not the ones to worry about. 
"They don't condemn all students." Brian 
thinks that it would help some students 
because "some people just dont understand 
the extent of the problem."
On the other hand, Brian thinks that 
some residents just don't want any 
university housing in the area: "They
think, we are students, and we don't belong 
in a residential neighborhood." There is 
also the generation gap that will always 
exist to increase tension. To this extent, 
the notion of improvment seems futile to 
him.
Brian, among others, also stresses the 
benefits of having many young people 
around. "My superintendent, who has been 
here a few years, says since CMU has 
moved in, crime has gone down." Another 
student in Marybelle makes the same 
claim: there are security people patrolling 
Clyde Street all the time, which 
discourages would-be robbers and other 
offenders.
Students also agree that lifestyle 
differences are a major factor. "Older 
people feel threatened by the kids. It's kind 
of scary...having a bunch of rowdy kids. 
But we're not," says one student.
Many students are willing to compromise 
about the levels of noise, but they are 
skeptical of the nieghbors' reactions. Pam 
Hare puts it this way: "I'd like to stay.
These are nice apartments for what we pay 
for them. If they're going to compromise, I 
would be willing, but if we're going to do 
everything and they're still going to 
complain about it, I can't see it."
They do feel that other complaints are 
unjustified. For example, some neighbors 
have complained about the cleanliness of 
windows in some "of the buildings. 
Students and RA's both feel that the 
residents do not have any right to object to 
problems within the buildings.
The students also feel that opinions on 
litter are overblown. Locals claim it was 
much cleaner on Clyde Street during the 
summer, but one students replies, "Of 
course it was litter-free [during the 
summer], because no one was living here. 
If there were other people living here, 
there'd be the same amount of litter as 
when we're here."
Brian Trees thinks that the appearance of 
the buildings has improved since CMU 
arrived here. "The neighbors might not 
agree, but I think the upkeep of the 
buildings has improved, because not only 
is the landlord doing stuff, but CMU's 
doing stuff to make the building better."
If students are forced to leave the area, 
some say they will return to on-campus 
living, while others would look for non
university apartments. Brian Lipsky of 601 
Clyde Street claims, " I'd probably try to 
continued on page 7
AIM HIGH
WHAT DO I DO 
AFTER COLLEGE?
Thats a question many college students are asking. They 
also want to know how to use their degree best after college.
One way to make the most of your education is to become 
an Air Force officer through Air Force ROTC. As an Air Force 
officer youll have prestige, responsibility ... an unequaled 
opportunity to lead, manage and be successful.
Air Force ROTC could be the gateway to a great way of life 
for you. Find out about our scholarship programs which pay 
you $100 per academic month, plus tuition, books, lab and 
other fees. Aim High with Air Force ROTC. Youll have a 
challenging and rewarding future waiting for you after
graduation. Contact Captain Wayne W. Carter
Porter Hall - 15
268-8747
ihachbruvd legh66hIgh 0sabsr 1hbh

---------------------------------------------------

FINALLY A 
FREE RIGHT PLAN 
JUST FOR STUDENTS. 
YOU WONT GET A 
BREAK LIKE THIS 
ONCE YOU'RE OUT IN THE REAL WORLD.
INTRODUCING COLLEGIATE FLIGHTBANK, FROM Or the grand prize , for the number one student referral
CONTINENTAL AND NEW YORK AIR. champion in the nation: a Porsche and one year of unlimited
If youre a full-time student at an accredited college or unicoach air travel, 
versity you can join our Collegiate FlightBank?" Youll receive ^ Vu 8et t0f the referral champion? Just sign
a membership card and number that will allow you to get UP 35 mat?V f P<.311(1 m/ie yourember10% off Continental and New York Airs already low feres. In shlP number 15 n their apP^on. In order to be eligible for 
addition, youll get a one-time certificate good for $25 off any P^V0 ^ V01* must sign up before 12/31/86
domestic roundtrip flight. Plus, youll be able to earn trips to ^ n S0? 7 NWplaces like Rorida, Denver, Los Angeles, even London and York Air before 6/15/87. Andyou 11 not only get credit for the
the South Pacific. Because every time you fly youll earn mile^ enrollment, you also get 500 bonus miles.
age towards a free trip. And if you sign up now youll also cut coupon, and send it in now. Be sure to inc ude
receive 3 free issues of BusinessWeek Careers magazine. ^our currri ^ time P ?n ^cost you $10 for one year ($15 after 12/31/86) and $40 for four
years ($60 after 12/31/86). Your membership kit, including 
referral forms, will arrive in 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a credit . 
card, you can call us at 1-800-255-4321 and enroll even faster. 
Now more than ever it pays to stay in school.
I SIGN ME UP NOW! (Plca.se print <r type) ? I Year ($10) ? 2 Years (S20) ? 3 Years ($V) ? 4 Years ($40) !
Must he submitted bv 12/M /86.
Name__________________________________________________________Date of Birth---------------- --------
College__________________________________Address---------------------------------------------------------------------
Introducing Collegiate FlightBank Earn free trips to New York, San Francisco, Boston, Washing
ton, D.C., Miami, Chicago, or Denver. Plus, Australia, Honolulu, London, and Mexico. All told, 
74 cities worldwide.
SIGN UP YOUR FRIENDS AND EARN A PORSCHE.
But whats more, for the 10 students on every campus who 
enroll the most active student flyers from their college there 
are some great rewards: 1 free trip wherever Continental or
Send this coupi m to: Collegiate RightBank 
RO. Box 297847
Housti, TX 77297 ?61
New York Air flies in the mainland U.S., Mexico or Canada. --------1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ZipPermanent Address--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ZipFull time student ID#____________________________________Year (Graduation---------------
$________ ? Check/Money Order Enclosed PLEASE DONT SEND CASH
? American Express ? Visa ? MasterCard ? Diners Club
Account Number_____________________________________________________Expiration Date----------------
Signature X-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FOR MEMBERSHIP APPLICANTS UNDER THE AGE OF 18: The undersigned is the parent/ 
guardian of the membership applicant named hereon, and 1 consent to his/her participant! in the 
Colk.'giate RightBank program.
Signature X_________________________________________________________
# CONTINENTAL <5 NEW YORK AIR
Seine blackout penock *p*y fir dcoia* trad and reward redempr**v Complete terms and conditions of program will aco wnnany membership kit. Certain restrictions apply. Current full tire student status required for each 
war of membership. To earn any prne a rmrumum of 12 referrals is required. All referral auard winners will he announced K 8/1/87.10% disc Mint applies to mainland U.S. travel only > 1986 Continental Air Lines, Inc. 
Students must be between ages 16 and 25. Registration and taxes are the responsibility of the award recipient.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 7
Counseling Center will Offer New Programs
BY KISA S. KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
In conjunction with the changes that the 
Health Center is implementing, the 
Counseling Center plans to continue its 
past services while developing new 
programs to aid Carnegie Mellon's student
community.
According to Dr. Lori Rabin, a Counselor 
and Director of the Counseling Center, 
their aim is to "provide quality mental 
health services for the campus." Currently, 
staff members want to remind returning 
students and inform freshman of their 
availability. The center has begun a big 
publicity campaign through posters and 
advertisements as well as distributing 
brochures in every freshman packet.
The Counseling Center offers a variety of 
services, from short term individual 
psychotherapy to group workshops dealing 
with stress. One of the new groups will be 
workshops for Oriental students, who, 
Rabin said, "often have some special 
adjustments to make when they come to 
school." "Dealing with the Drinker" will 
provide support for people who find their 
friends' or relatives' drinking problems 
becoming a problem in their own lives. 
Although a new program for Carnegie 
Mellon, Rabin said this workshop is 
offered on other campuses. Additionally, a 
workshop dealing with stress management 
will be offered again this year.
Students who prefer a one-to-one 
consultation can make personal 
appointments. The Counseling Center has 
good reference resources as well, for those 
students who wish to continue counseling
A counselor is on call 24 hours a day. In 
case of a crisis, students can call the 24 
hour phone counseling number and contact 
a counselor or get in touch with another 
crisis center who can help them 
immediately.
Programs to aid in academic problems are 
also offered. Free walk-in tutoring will 
begin Tuesday, September 23 for calculus 
(including Pre, I, II, and III), physics, 
chemistry, academic writing problems, 
financial accounting, economics, and 
introduction to computing. Tutoring will 
occur Sunday through Thursday evenings 
from 7 to 10 p.m. This program has 
grown every year, with 1200 sessions 
occurring in the 1985-1986 school year. 
The staff also plans to hold a new four 
session workshop for improving study 
skills. A syllabus has already been 
developed and the Center hopes to start as 
soon as possible with a pilot program 
consisting of 12 to 15 students in each 
class.
To prevent potential problems, staff 
members also work with other student 
services on campus. Resident Assistants 
receive training from the Counseling
Center. Counselors and members of the 
Housing Office meet regularly to discuss 
topics of concern. Every CMU faculty 
member will receive a letter from the center 
discussing how to deal with a student they 
feel may be in trouble. The Counseling 
Center is working with the Health Center 
during its restructuring, and both centers 
refer students to each resource when staff 
members find a student in need. 
Additionally, Dr. Rabin sits on the Health 
Awareness Council, which she hopes will 
be helpful "in part to generate new 
programming."
Currently, the center is negotiating to 
become part of a research program in 
conjuntion with the psychology 
department. The potential program would 
center around research on counseling in 
combination with computers because 
experts believe "certain problems may lend 
themselves to computing."
Last year, a professional evaluator 
conducted an evaluation of the center. 
Students, as well as Carnegie Mellon staff 
and faculty who had used the center were 
asked to participate. According to Rabin, 
"the evaluator was very impressed with the 
positive feedback the evaluation produced."
Staff stressed that the Counseling Center 
is always willing to help and available for 
anyone. "We want students to know we're 
here and available for big and small
Cycling at CMU
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan staffwriter
One CMU freshman recently remarked, 
"here you can never tell the bicycle racks 
from the modem art." These new sinecurve shaped racks, notably around the 
computer center, are an improvement 
according to campus cycling experts. Still 
though, these cyclists feel that the state of 
campus bicycle racks is far from perfect.
"Last spring, the situation was really a 
joke," comments Richard Siegel. Though 
the sophomore physics major was glad to 
see cement-anchored racks installed near 
Skibo, he was disappointed when he saw 
how flimsy they were. The new modem art 
style racks, however, are unquestionably 
sturdier, but the thick pipes that form them 
make using safer U-block locks 
impossible.
Graduate student Suranne Robinson, who 
shares Richard's concern, thinks "There are 
enough racks, but they're just the wrong 
kind." Working on a Ph.D, Suranne is one 
of three liscensed women racers in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Still though, a short walk through 
campus passes by dozens of bikes chained 
to anything but bicycle racks. To those 
concerned with their bike's safety, CMU 
racks seem to be plagued with a paradox: 
only weak chains can be used on sturdy 
racks and strong locks can be used only on 
weak racks.
Next week: Hopes for a Cycling Club.
Clyde Street Residents' Complaints
continued from page 3
get something like an apartment on 
campus. I don't think I could go back to 
dorms or eating Kiltie." Pam Hare, of 
Marybelle Apts., is less decided, though. 
"I wouldn't want to be on campus; I don't 
think I could live in a dorm after all this. 
I'd probably go off campus. But I don't 
know if I can even afford living off 
campus, because my financial aid pays for
problems."CMU Buys Pgh. College Club
It will house visiting professors
[part of my housing]."
The keyword for the next few weeks 
seems to be caution. As earlier, RA's are 
warning students to be polite and 
considerate of the locals living in the 
neighborhood. They insist that just a few 
students can make the difference between a 
very unpleasant year on Clyde Street and a 
united, understanding community.
continued from page 5
organization, comprised of both faculty and 
administrators, has been shuffled across 
campus without ever having a permaneant 
headquarters. Because the College Club is 
a complete, self-contained club, it will fill 
the Faculty Club's special needs, 
gujrently, it meets in a dining room in
The Faculty Club will use the building for many different functions and social
events.
and guests; it will be a place to meet and 
discuss. But it will not be a place for 
studentsit will be a members and guests 
only club.
The building is currently in need of work, 
but reconstruction will start shortly and an 
open house is scheduled in about a month. 
Even so the optimism seems to be high. 
In Mr. Roger's words, "It will be better 
than anything we've had before..."rCAPRI PIZZA
34V5 Forbes Avenue (near Magee Hospital)  Oakland
CALL US TODAY 681-2202
OPEN
SUNDAY thru WEDNESDAY OPEN TILL 2 AM 
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY OPEN TILL 3 AMVS
WE SERVE
?We Deliver/Limited Area
PIZZA
LIQUOR, BEER, & WINE
JUNIOR
SMALL
MEDIUM
CUTS
4
6
8
opn1u "HEESE 
2.50 
3.25 
4.00
(6 Packs to Go)
k LARGE PIZZA - SEE SPECIAL ?
X-LARGE 12 5.50
TOPPINGSPepperoni, Mushrooms, Green Peppers, Ex tre Cheese, Onions, Sausage, Anchovies, Black Olives
PROVOLONE STICKS.......................1.23
EGG ROLLS.......................................73
FRENCH FRIES...................................75*
BREADED MUSHROOMS...................1.25
HOAGIES
WHOLE HALFITALIAN.................3.40 1.95SALAMI .................3.40 1.95CAPICOLLO...........3.40 1.95HAM & CHEESE..........3.40 1.95STEAK......................3.60 1.99HOT SAUSAGE...........3.60 1.99MUSHROOM STEAK . . 3.75 1.99FISH HOAGIE.............3.75 1.99
SALADS
FRESH TOSSED SALAD........................1.99
FRESH GREEK SALAD.........................2.19
CALL FOR TAKE OUT 681 -2202 
FAST, FRIENDLY DELIVERY

---------------------------------------------------

Procter & Gamble
TECHNICAL CAREER SEMINAR
From 12-4 p.m., 
Wednesday September 24th
Bramer House
(located up the drive on the hill behind K2 & 0E)
DIVISIONS REPRESENTED:
Product Research & Development 
Engineering
CMU
Computer Store
SPECIAL OFFER
NEW DataSaver diskette filer. 
Only $5.95when you buy 
2 boxes of 5^" 3M diskettes.
Save $6.00- 
an $11.95 value!*
514* 3M diskettes DS/DD $ 13.00 
SS/DD $10.50
While Supplies Last!
One less thing to 
worry about.'"
Suf&'esU'tl listitn 
IfcilaSiiver is a iradeiuart of. 
DaiaSerun: Systems. Ine.
SORRENTOS PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE
#621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza Thick Crust Pizza 
Calzones - Hoagies  Pizza Bagels
Special:
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and 
Cappucino Coffee

---------------------------------------------------

F eatures
New Insignia, Old Protests
SILLY QUESTION OF THE WEEK, 
volume 1: What do you think of the new 
Carnegie Mellon logo and name change?
STUDENT RESPONSE:
Spam, a junior statistics major (in fact 
the only junior statistics major); "Weak. 
The design is stagnant, bland, and shows 
little innovation. NOT SPIFFY."
D.P., junior comp sci; "Well yeah, but 
it's better than the old one. I mean, the old 
one was boring."
Cole, sophomore biology; "Oh, come on. 
I like it. It's very clean. The old one looked 
contrived. This one looks technical, 
modem. The old one looked...old."
Spam; "Yeah, that's the problem. This 
one is too mainstream 80's."
Chris, junior mech e from Stanford whose 
feelings we didn't want to hurt by excluding 
him; "It looks like they meant to put a 
square..and missed."
Susan, a sophomore art major; "Oh, that, 
right,yeah,...it's there."
Marta, another sophomore art; "Too 
contemporary, trendy. Looks like a sale at 
Hecht's."
Joanne, sophomore design; "Come to 
Esprit/Carnegie Mellon. It's just not good 
looking. The skewed square sticks in your 
mind, not the name. And what is this 14 
degree (expletive deleted)? Why not 13
Illustration by Debbie Kirschlel Concept by Drue Miller Ivy Courtesy of Kurt Shaw
degrees? Or 15?"
Marta; "They should have let the students
do it..."
Joanne; "...one of the best (expletive 
deleted) design departments in the 
country...they could have held a 
competition for the seniors to do it, instead 
of paying someone else."
Marta; "It really reinforces the idea that 
this school doesn't support its art 
programs."
Nosy Reporter; "And the name change?"
Cole; "Stupid."
D.P.; "Dumb."
Spam; "If they were gonna drop 
university, why didn't they add 
corporation?"
Cole; "We're not well-known enough 
outside of this area ... it sounds like 
Triangle Tech."
Spam; "Also, we can't say CMU anymore 
and we're used to saying CMU and we all 
bought t-shirts that say CMU..."
Rob, junior Info Systems; "I think the 
whole idea is really silly. Then again, if 
they don't try to improve our image, no 
one else will. Um...I, ahh, I dont think it 
really matters."
D.P.; "Oh, yeah, another thing, I think 
the new large cokes in the Tartan really 
suck, because they're smaller."
Opinion: Dry Rush Beats Freshman Lush
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan StaffWriter
Fraternities are a very necessary part of 
college life. They provide a break in the 
tedium of lectures, recitations, and the 
sleepless nights before tests through the 
one type of social activity that has made 
the frats famous-the "wet" party. If there 
are still any people out there who do not 
know what a "wet" party is, I will tr^J^ 
explain its nature: At a "wet 
are basically two
who are drunk and iapj$y
trying to become dr^^^^^ij^ih^' uie 
"drunken state" thro^|c^iiMess streairf 
of beer, wine coo^por other sort of 
alchoholic bevereg$||jiifhich is usually 
provided by the frate^t^where the party is 
taking place. Th^^^sence of other 
distractions such as sic,.
and dancing are insign$K$Bt compared 
the presence of alcohol. AfcfoftgiiglhsBCi t$ 
booze in the house, you
"Dry" Parties are the sani^^s wet Parties 
with one very important difference-no 
booze! All of the same things that occur at 
the "wet" can occur at the "dry" only 
without alcohol. Some people think that 
because of this difference, the "dry" parties 
are not even worth going to, or that they
are not going to have as much fun at a 
"dry" then they would at a "wet."
Is alcohol that important? I can hear all 
of you out there nodding your heads and 
saying, "Damn right it's important! Can't 
have a good time without any brew!" All 
right I see your point Alcohol is an 
established part of the fraternity party. 
After all, w^t's the first image that comes
a fraternity?
:^,Jphn Belushy#::
ig etivefy accura&. ^ictttf^. of 
^' general: rowdy gtj?* J&vfrjkg A good tme 
with girls and lo$$i^ If
there is anyone thinks that
that movie was wroia^^| a party at one 
of the houses .!^ and you will
changar yo gg^
W&ft that At brothers are simply 
to show their potential rushees as 
their sorority cohorts a good time. 
^ They should not be blamed for allowing 
their fellow students an opportunity to 
blow off a little steam on the weekends, 
they should be thanked! However, through 
their "good samaritanship," the frat boys 
are creating some problems.
The fraternity quad on "wet" party night is 
a steaming hot-plate of bizarre and 
occasionally perverse activity. Here is
where the steam is actually "blown off." 
People go around to the various houses 
meeting people, dancing, and (of co 
drinking. Inside the frats themselv 
parties are usually loud and fil 
people having a good time 
outside of the houses is where ibe f*6bl 
usually start It is very ea$p fafsomsojfle 
who never really drank in the past to driffliv 
^..yjgp|jh at one of these parties 
3ft occasionaMr^hman (regard
 $^W$vovcr do it. and have, to be dra; 
iaclt to their dormt$|^w a garbage 
can. Guys sometime^ and
give a cute little sistGfc >;:an obscene 
compliment (use your imagini^ps $|:that 
one). Im not going to boi^||^u with 
other examples; these things are common 
at all parties where there is (Jrinking.
A frat party is unique 
had with your friends at honifc^ 
parents were away and you 
friend's older brother to get you & cs& of 
beer or found out where your fath^iii<j|j& 
key to the liquor cabinet A frat 
supposed to be a social event, not a contest 
where the first one to belch loud enough to 
break a window wins. The people who 
give the parties do so with the intention of 
getting people (rushees, sorority sisters, 
and little sisters) together to have a good
time. "Dry" parties can be as much fun as 
"wet"
parties and maybe even more fun because 
people will not have to worry about getting 
sick, arrested, or beat up.
who goes to a party with the soul 
n of getting "wasted" is abusing the 
^ w of having "wet" nights. The 
JraterBStifc3 fefcve a responsibility to keep 
the people a* the parties safe. The guys 
out beer should recognize when 
Spieone has had ti^much. Efforts should 
tfc made to keepjpople safe, whether its 
Slicing someone get home or keeping 
p6q5^ frpm dftcing on the walls.
2N8|i$|$j^g out and buying a keg or 
five is not the only resposibility that 
comes with having a party. If the 
fraternities are going to provide, and the 
ij^ents are going to demand, alcohol at 
j$hies, both groups must respect that 
j||vilege. After all, it is the school which 
allows and designates which nights are 
$oing to be "wet" nights. The practice 
&)uld be abolished whenever the mood hits 
the crew over at Warner Hall. So we had 
all better be careful if we want to "release 
some steam" at the frats with a friendly 
Moose or Bud. Just remember, if the 
school does cut out the booze on campus, 
we can always hang out at the Big "O"!!
World Famous Music Man Comes to Carnegie Mellon
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
On friday morning, a handful of Carnegie 
Mellon students and professors got a rare 
glimpse at a music legend, Isao Tomita. 
Famous for his eletronic renditions of the 
classics, Tomita spoke to onlookers for 
about an hour.
Much of what was discussed pertained to 
his recent concert in New York Harbor. 
Since many performers have done shows on 
the waterfront, why should Tomitas attract 
international attention? Well for one thing 
he used speakers on land, sea and air. 
Combining the elaborate speaker system 
with an even more impressive light show 
one begins to see the magnitude of the 
concert experience.
Throw in a full-concert choir and use
standard repertiore classical like: 
Beethovens 9th, Dvorak's New World, 
Stravinski's Firebird, and Gershwins 
Rapsody in Blue-, and you've got an outing 
for the whole family. But Tomita does not 
just stop here. He even went as far as to 
include a Russian pianist to perform the 
Gershwin. In short, Tomita does thing in a 
big way.
Big is not without it's price, however. 
Since speakers on the helicopters and on 
barges are constantly changing their 
position, the sound must be delayed in 
order to compensate. Not only does the pre
recorded synthesizer music have to be 
altered, but also the singers and the pianist 
on the barge must wear headphones to keep 
in step.
Although Tomita also has many succesful 
albums on the market, the importance of
this past Saturdays concert dominated the 
conversation. One student asked How 
about a concert on Flagstaff?, Tomita 
responded through his interpreter/son (also 
a Comp-Sci prof here), If there is land,
sea, and sky I would like to try. Another 
student quipped How about the point? 
Tomita answered It is a possibilty 
Hopefully, possibility will soon become 
reality.

---------------------------------------------------

Razzmatazz and All that Jazz
Featuring the Pittsburgh All-Star Jazz Band
tA once-in-a lifetime collection of Pittsburgh's finest jazz musicians. 
With CMU's own Director of Jazz Studies, Randy Purcell, on trombone
And Featuring the Legendary Modern Jazz quartet
Wednesday, September 24 
8:00 p.m. 
Heinz Hall
Tickets are available at Heinz Hall, Kaufmann's and LeTicket for $12.50, $15, $18.
50% Student Discount.
Call 281-5000 for ticket information.
Proceeds benefit the Ronald Mcdonald House 
of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 11
JTFi&o Js BacfiDear Theo,
My gripe is this: every morning on my way to 
class, I get attacked. Attacked by ruthless water 
sprinklers. What is the physical plant trying to
pull/prove? I don't even bother taking a shower before 
class anymore. I just carry a bar of Camay (on a 
rope). And where did they get that name? Physical 
Plant ? Come on now. This is really 
I interrupt this letter for a special message 
about bear slander. The "Theo Bear" that 
appeared in last week's Tartan was a 
disgusting display of plagiarism and fraud. 
I refuse to have my name defamed by a
cutesy-wutesy stuffed toy. I'm sorry but I 
am peeved. As soon as I get my hands on 
that Levy person he's a dead Dave. A 
special Theo salute to the first person to 
bring me the head of this man. 'Nuff said. 
And now back to our lovely column.
Theo is Provided as a public service to the CMU
Community. Theo's views do not necessarily
represent those of the Tartan newspaper or those of 
the Features Editor. Please address any questions or 
comments you may have few Theo in care of 
Features Editor, Tartan, Room 55 Skibo. Thanks.
Dear Theo,
I have this debilitating fear of Skibo. I haven't 
been able to go in the place ever since I fell off the 
top of Grey Matter and broke almost every bone in 
my body.
Specifically:
A. Plate bones
1. Right scapula
2. 4 1/2 ribs
3. Skull
B. Long bones
1. Left femur
2. Tibia, fibula
3. Humerus (left and right)
4. Radius, ulna
5. All phalanges
C. Bones I don't know how to classify
1. Mandible
2. Patella
3. Pelvis
4. Greater and lesser trochanter
I also got a terrible rugbum over 90 percent of my 
body. Anyway, now I can't use the marvelous 
facilities that Skibo has to offer. I can't go to the 
Information Desk, I can't go to Entropy, and I have
to walk to Oakland every time I want to use a 
bank machine. Why, I can't even stop in Scotland 
Yard for a Clueless Cocktail. What must I do? 
What must I do???
Signed,
Broken, Burned and 
Hungry
Dear Crackpot,
Hmph. Hmph again. Well, I thought you had 
me stumped with this one, but I'm not. Because 
everyone who knows me knows that I never get 
stumped. No siree you can't stump me. Never. 
And since I can't be stumped, I've come up with 
two solutions.
First, you could get Skibo renamed to 
something like Fleebo or Zebo or Bebo or 
Dweebo or Ameebo or Kikoget the idea? This 
way you'd be fearing something that didn't exist.
Another solution is through ritual. You merely 
have to spend the night naked in a straight jacket 
soaked in vegetable oil in Grey Matter. Oh, and 
candles, lots of candles.
Theo
V
Honeywell 
Looks for 
Students 
with
Imagination
MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 11  On Sept. 
15, Honeywell will launch its fifth-annual 
Futurist Awards Competition, an essay 
contest that asks students to predict 
technology advancements 25 years from 
now.
Honeywell wants college students to 
imagine the year 2011 and write essays 
about the technological developments they 
foresee. This year's contest will offer 10 
winners $3,000 each and the chance to 
work for Honeywell next summer.
Last year, 450 students, representing 325 
colleges and universities in 47 states, 
entered the competition.
The contest is open to all full-time 
students at any accredited college in the 
United States. Students are asked to leap 25 
years in the future and write an essay 
predicting developments in one of six 
technological areas: electronic
communications, energy, aerospace, 
computer science, manufacturing 
automation or office automation. A second 
essay must address the societal impact of 
the technological predictions. Each essay 
must be no longer than 1,500 words.
Students can receive contest rules by 
writing Futurist Rules, Honeywell 
Telemarketing Center, Honeywell Plaza 
MN12-4164, Minneapolis, MN 55408, or 
calling toll free 1-800-328-5111, ext. 1581. 
Requests for entry material must be 
received by Dec. 31, 1986.
Completed essays must be postmarked no 
later than Jan. 31, 1987. In February| a 
panel of top Honeywell scientists and 
engineers will judge the essays on the basis 
of creativity, feasibility, clairity of 
expression and legibility.
Winners will be announced in early 
March, and each of the 10 winners will 
receive a two-day, all-expense-paid trip to 
Honeywell's headquarters in Minneapolis.
ONWEfNEMS
IOCKHEBP*
Meet Americas 
Top-rated Aerospace Employer.
Talk with our representatives about 
why in 1985 The Almanac of American 
Employers rated Lockheed second overall 
among Americas largest, successful 
companies. Tbps among aerospace firms. 
And talk about career opportunities at 
Lockheed. And about our famed Skunk 
Works facility where we developed the 
SR-71 Blackbird, an aircraft so advanced, 
its still the worlds fastest, highest flying 
airplane in sustained flight.
Just sign up in your placement office 
and mark these dates on your calendar:
Presentation  October 9 
Interviews  October 10
Youll see why were a company with a 
remarkable history. And a future as prom
ising as your own.
Lockheed is an equal opportunity, affir
mative action employer. U.S. citizenship 
is required.
Lockheed-CaHfornia Company $jP
rtqpitoiwplwOwt
SKUNK WORKS and the skunk design are registered service marks of the Lockheed Corporation. O 1986 Lockheed Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

Michael Scanlon H&SS 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Thursday 3:30 - 4:30
Andrew Robitshek CIT
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Friday 2:30 - 3:30

---------------------------------------------------

Dana Hausman MCS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
VICE-CHAIRMAN 
Wednesday 12:30 - 1:30
Neil Shipley H&SS 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Thursday 11:30 - 12:30
Student Senate The Link
Meetings on Tuesday at 7:30 PM 
in the Wherret Room.
Or call us at extension 2115.
Robert Bollinger CFA 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
Todd Giles IM 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Wednesday 
1:30 - 2:30
Toby Ayre MCS
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
VICE-CHAIRMAN 
Thursday 4:30 - 5:30
Norman Larson CFA
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Friday 1:30 - 2:30
Michael Herron MCS
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Monday 2:30 - 3:30
i I
Dave Levy CIT
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Wednesday 2:30 - 3:30
Glenn Kornbrek 
CFA
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Tuesday
11:30 - 12:30
Leslie Frank H&SS 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
CHAIRMAN 
Monday 9:30 - 10:30
Nadine Flynn CFA 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
CHAIRMAN 
Tuesday 12:30 - 1:30

---------------------------------------------------

ri
3av ir ETrA Four free colas with
i i any 16" pizza.Colas ! 0ne Coupon per pizza.
Expires: 10/5/86
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N. Craig St.
Two free colas with
TWO FrPP any 12 pizza.  1 One Coupon per pizza.Colds ! Expires: 10/5/86
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N.Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
8mm Kodak Video 
Camera System
687-8680
(Open 24 Hours)
On snle nt Kinko's:KODAKFpooY D1SKS
$9.95
5W' s/s 10-pack$11.95" CMUB d/s 10-pack$17.95
31/2" Micro s/s 10-pack$22.9531/2" Micro d/s 10-pack
 Double density
 Error-free A/so so/cf individually 
Contest ends Nov. 1st.
3915 Forbes
Ave. iLk.- . 1
Enter now for vacation giveaway!
Round-trip to 
Honolulu on 
Hawaiian Airlines. 
One week at the 
Sheraton Hotel 
at Waikiki Beach.
2nd PRIZE_______________
Apple Macintosh "
Computer
3rd PRIZE
Win a Trip to
Includes Airfare 
& Hotel hr 2!
GRAND PRIZE
PITTSBURGH BEAUTY ACADEMY 
WELCOMES YOU TO THE #1 CITY
PITTSBURGH
with 
50% Savings on:
- Perms & Color -- 3rd floor clinic
- Manicuring: (for those special occasions) 
Manicures, Sculptured Nails, Tips, Wraps,
Acrylic and design  2nd floor Graduate Division
- Hair Cut & Styles ~ 2nd floor Graduate Division
- European Facials  2nd floor Graduate Division
- Makeup Applications  2nd floor Graduate Division
- Electrolysis (permanent hair removal)  2nd floor 
Graduate Division
CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT FOR ANY 
SERVICE IN OUR GRADUATE AREA:
PITTSBURGH BEAUTY ACADEMY 
415 Smithfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412)471-0270
Directly across from Kaufmann's parking lot. 
Have student I.D. with you.
I

---------------------------------------------------

TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTIUST-A-CUT
only $25.00$13.00$8.00
Complete with writtenComcHete with shampooCut only
guarantee.and blow style.
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized it 
was time to do some
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right into Great 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair Is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
inseparable ever since.
CNKCTsmnsPRECISION HAIRC UTTERS
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at... IC
APfONTMENT 
NECESSARY
r
^^^AVE_COUPQN 
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer expires
SEPT. 30,1986
n
CftCflT
PRECISION HAIRC UTTERSII
(SjcMCT
CMfCCTATItnS.
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
Challenge without reward is incomplete. Air 
Force ROTC offers both. Youll receive leadership 
and management training, and after graduation 
youll be an Air Force second lieutenant.
You may be eligible for 2 through 4-year scholar
ships which pay tuition, books, lab fees and $100 
tax-free each academic month.
Look into your future as an Air Force officer. 
Challenges ... and rewards for a career with pride 
and commitment. Contact:
Captain Wayne W. Carter 
Poster Hall 15 
268-8747A FORCE 4^, ROTC
ihachbruvd legh66hIgh 0sabsr 1hbh
FOR THE CHALLENGE 
YOU WANT. . .
THE REWARDS 
YOU DESERVE
WE USE ONLY THE FINEST QUALI1Y INGREDIENTS
DRINKSSUBSTop Quality Meats7' 14"
Meatball ...........................3.325.37
Ham..................................2.995.07Provolone.........................2.644.57
Hard Salami ......................3.325.37
Tuna..................................2.995.07Italian.................................3.325.37
Turkey Breast ....................3.646.27
Roast Beef ........................3.776.39Combination ....................4.126.59(Ham, Turkey, & Roast Beef)
BAGEL SANDWICHESPlain, Onion & Poppy
Meatball .........................3 3?Ham .................................299Provolone.........................264Hard Salami......................332Tuna .................................299Italian ...............................33?Turkey Breast....................3 64Roast Beef ........................3 77Combination....................41?
SALADSFresh, Crisp & Delicious
Tossed Salad....................175Chef Salad ......................3 50
SOUP OF THE DAY
Soda 16 oz. Bottle................60C each
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Mountain Dew
BAGELS
Plain  Onion  Poppy 1/5> dozen bagels,one kind or assorted .............. 1.80Uncut ........................................... 35Cw/Butter .............................. 65C
w/Cream Cheese ....................... 85C
TACOS
A Spicy Mexican SpecialtyBeef Tacos.................................... 99C
PIEROGIESA House Specialty, Made in our own kitchens Cheese 8t Potato Filled, Smothered in our own Butter 8c Onion Sauce.
6 to an order .............................2.95
w/sour cream add..................... 25C
w/tomato sauce add ................ 60C
PIEROGIES TO GO
Take 'em home and prepare them your way By the Dozen...............3.25
Large 12 oz. Bowl .......................... 1.45CHIPS
Plain or Barbeque ........................ 30C
Minimum order for deiivery $5.00 All subs include: cheese, lettuce, tomato, oil & spices Optional items are: mayonnaise, onions & hot peppers
? PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE ?
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATRONAGE
PLEASE USE THESE MONEY SAVING COUPONS ON YOUR NEXT 
DELICIOUS ORDER FROM BUBBA'S BREAKAWAY
I
2
FREE BAGS 
OF CHIPS
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
FREE 16 OZ. 
DRINK
(Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, 
Mountain Dew)
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
FREE
TACO
I
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
I SUB
minute
fiiih
. BREAKAWAY--------___i
hedvbhrS October 3,1986
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
EXPIRES: October 3,1986
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
EXPIRES: October 3,1986
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
CALL US
362-6900
258 S. HIGHLAND AVE.
SERVING SHADYSIDE & 
SURROUNDING AREA
OPEN: 11 AM TILL 1 AM 
FRI-SAT TILL 2 AM

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
The Meese Commission: 
"Potential Sexual Deviants"
U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese 
and a hand-picked Commission have 
produced a 1960-page report devoted 
to the discussion of pornography. The 
editorial page, in fact the entire 
newspaper, is not sufficient space to 
list all of the ridiculous and fallacious 
arguments made within the report. Yet 
this govemmentally-sanctioned and 
funded mockery of empirical social 
science research is already having 
noteworthy consequences in American 
society.By way of example, here are just a 
few of the gems contained in this 
report. First, consider the task with 
which this Commission was charged: 
"to determine the nature, extent, and 
impact on society of pornography in 
the United States and to make specific 
recommendations to the Attorney 
General concerning more effective 
ways in which the spread of 
pornography could be contained." The task, therefore, was biased from the 
start because the goal makes the 
preliminary assumption that porno
graphy must be "contained" and is 
therefore bad or undesirable.
Then the Commission decided that 
"The best course may be [to decide that] definition was simply futile." But 
for the hell of it, they decided that 
ponography is material which is 
"...predominantly sexually explicit 
and intended primarily for the purpose 
of sexual arousal."
In order to "determine the nature...of 
pornography," the eleven Com
missioners bought and examined 3571 
videotapes, 3916 books and 4644 
pornographic magazines, including 
"The Best of Foot Worship," "Big 
Boys and Their Buddies," and 
"Hogtie #4 and #8." As one 
Commissioner, Deanne Tilton-Durfee, 
pointed out in her dissenting statement 
"Certainly, mere exposure to 
pornographic materials does not create 
criminal behavior...such a connection 
would render each Commissioner a 
potential sexual deviant."
In fact, the report itself 
acknowledges that. "The only data 
available that directly address this 
issue suggest that [sex] offenses occur 
regardless of the use of pornography 
by the offender."
Most frightening is the fact that 
based on this inconclusive evidence, 
the Commission is making recommendations which are affecting 
tangible change around the country. 
The report suggests the creation of an 
"Obscenity Law Enforcement 
Database," which would have a nation
wide scope. This McCarthyesque 
move would blacklist businesses and 
individuals connected with 
pornography. Already, because of a 
letter sent to the Southland 
Corporation by Edwin Meese, copies 
of Playboy and Penthouse have been 
removed from the shelves of 4500 
7-Eleven stores around the country.
Every citizen of the U.S. who has 
any respect for personal freedom or 
even a slight sense of logic should 
realize that this report is a travesty and 
be appalled by the fact that it is having 
tangible effects around the country. 
Most ironic is the fact that this 
oppressive movement is being 
supported by an administration that 
promised to get government "off our 
backs." Good job.
Letters:
RA Sees Vicious Cycle Involving Alcohol
Editor:
I'm an RA in Donner. It's 6AM.
A resident of my floor is in the 
bathroom regretting how much he 
had to drink last night. His 
insides look pretty putrid painted 
along the porcelain of the toliet 
and the sink. I'm sure he's got an 
awful hangover.
I feel like I've failed. One of my 
goals as an RA and as a Christian 
was to communicate to my 
residents that their acceptance as a 
person and their value in this 
world is not dependent on how 
much they can drink at a party.
BUT THIS IS NOT A LETTER 
ABOUT HIM, and I apologize if 
I've embarrassed him in any way, 
OR ABOUT ME. ITS A 
COMMENTARY ABOUT OUR 
SOCIETY, OF WHICH OUR 
CAMPUS IS A SMALL 
REFLECTION.
Why do we students always seem 
to include "is there going to be 
alcohol at the party?" as one of 
our first questions, and when we 
advertise parties, we make sure 
everyone knows. Why do so 
many people I know in the Greek 
system complain about RUSH 
being dry this year? I would hope 
that the brothers would decide 
who to give bids to based upon 
things other than how stupid 
someone looks when he is drunk, 
and that potential pledges would 
decide on a fraternity based upon 
whether they like the people there 
and not what their parties are like. 
Why do RA's buy into the 
system and assume that they will 
have to have alcohol at a resi
dence hall function to get anyone 
to show up? It seems to me that 
the best events are those where 
people are real, not acting under
the influence. LETS OPEN OUR 
EYES!
I know the results of drinking 
feel goodI had more than my 
share of buzzes and drunkeness in 
high school and early in college. 
But there are many other things 
every one of us can think of that 
make people feel good and don't 
have the negative physical 
(puking and liver poisoning) and 
psychological (alchoholism) side 
effects.
What about the fact that alcohol 
is a social springboard? It 
provides people with a common 
ground and makes them feel less 
inhibited to interact with others. 
WELL WHY SETTLE WITH A 
BAND-AID WHEN WE CAN 
GET TO THE HEART OF THE 
PROBLEM?! THE REAL ISSUE 
HERE IS WHY DO WE NEED 
A SOCIAL SPRINGBOARD 
AND WHY DO WE FEEL 
INHIBITED IN THE FIRST 
PLACE?
Basically, it's because evey 
person is insecure. We are social 
beings with a longing to be 
accepted and part of the "in 
crowd," yet we are convinced that 
nobody could really like us the 
way we are. We're afraid of 
rejection, so we talk about 
objects and things that people can 
attack without us feeling 
personally hurt, instead of talking 
about the things that really have 
meaning to us and let people 
know who we are. We have 
learned to expect that the other 
person(s) will respond negatively, 
and because of that we need to 
feel less inhibited about being 
vulnerable. Unfortunately, we are 
not entirely wrong in expecting 
rejection, befcause we constantly
put people down without even 
realizing it.
Why does this seem to be more 
of a problem at Carnegie Mellon? 
Because of the academic pressure, 
primarily. We are afraid of 
spending sixty thousand dollars 
($75 thousand if you're an 
architect) only to find that we are 
a failure at what we thought we 
might be good at. We have so 
much pressure put on us by 
school, the system, our parents, 
our friends, and ourselves that we 
need a release. Where do most of 
us tum?--alcohol.
Well it shouldn't be news to 
anyone that there are other ways 
to vent pressure and have a good 
time. Get involved in a campus 
activity or student group, and let 
that be your pressure outlet. Get 
involved in a sport, and run off 
your frustrations. In my case it 
was realizing that God loves me 
just the way I am and finding a 
suport group to constantly remind 
me of that.
I'M NOT PREACHING, 
FOLKS! I just see a vicious cycle 
involving alcohol that is feeding 
on itself and our insecurities, and 
I want to try to begin breaking it 
for the benefit of our entire 
campus community.
Freshmen-you don't have to 
drink to be a valuable part of our 
campus. Seniorsyou dont have 
to go to bars now that you're 21 
to be "with it." Everybody elseNOBODY NEEDS A DRINK. IF 
YOU REALLY WANT ONE, 
THAT'S FINE. BUT YOU 
DON'T NEED ONE TO BE 
PART OF THE "IN CROWD." 
YOU'RE IMPORTANT JUST 
AS YOU ARE.
Tim Holmes

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The Tartan-rPage 17
Apparent Solution to Drug Problem is Unconstitutional
By JACK L. POLLER
Tartan Contributing Editor
Just three days after President Reagan 
ordered the heads of Federal agencies to 
establish mandatory drug testing programs 
for federal employees, a judge ruled the
Column
testing unconstitutional. Judge H. Lee 
Sarokin of the Federal District Court in 
Newark, New Jersey made the ruling in a 
case involving 17 police and firemen who 
were fired when their mandatory urine tests 
showed positive for drugs.
The need for the anti-drug programs has 
not been contested. Many companies and 
Federal organizations are complaining of
inefficiency and problems in their workforce caused by drug use. According to Judge Sarkin, "The threat posed by 
widespread use of drugs is real, the need to combat it manifest... But it is important 
not to permit fear and panic to overcome 
our fundamental principles and protections."
Mandatory testing is not the way to 
combat drug use-it is unconstitutional. In 
his ruling Judge Sarokin noted that in order 
to validate a test, the urine sample is 
obtained in the presence of a witness, 
violating the privacy of one of the human's 
most private functions. This in itself is a 
violation of the Constitution's guarantee of 
privacy.
But mandatory drug testing violates 
another provision of the Constitution. The
Gazorching to Gross Misconduct
By JAY KATZ
Upon receiving the 1986 student 
handbook, I immediately leafed through to 
find out about the disciplinary consequences 
for each of the different student violations.
Last year I was very amused by the 
inequity of the fines and penalties which 
fall into five different categorical groups.For instance, I recalled that the punishment 
for growing marijuana was equal to the one 
for going on the roof of Morewood. I 
wondered what the penalty would be for 
growing marijuana on the roof of 
Morewood. x
This year, the both of those crimes are 
still in the group one category, which is 
pusishabie through fines bewtween $25 and 
$50. Maybe it would be better if the 
administration just hired some Swat team 
members to mow down anyone stupid 
enough to venture onto the Morewood roof.
Don't you try bringing out your 
pyrotechnics kit in your dorm room-that's 
another group one violation. And if you're 
thinking of installing a waterbed in your 
spacious Hammerschlag triple, don't 
because your not allowed to under that ' 
same group one code.
Group two violations are much steeper and 
students must pay $50 to $100 for 
fulfilling them. Blocking open an entrance 
door to a dormitory falls in this category. 
You're much better off growing marijuana.
Group three violations, punishable by at 
least a $100 fine, cracks down on CMUs
worse threat-the misuse and mistreatment 
of computers. After all, computers are more 
important that people. Specifically, the 
duplicating computer software and the 
misusing of computer facilities fall into 
this category. These corruptive acts 
definitely seem more threatening than the 
group two violation, possession of 
firearms.
I have been tempted to do a group four 
violation, which entails being kicked out of 
school and paying a severe fine, through 
the "willful destruction of, disabling or 
damaging computer facilities, equipment." 
My lab partner for Introduction to 
Computing and I even had a comprehensive 
plan on how we were going to steal one of 
the hideous edu-2 computers and drop it 
down architect's leap. I sore didn't know 
that die stakes were so high.
In group five, I see that a student can get 
kicked out of school if he or she "is guilty 
of gross misconduct". I think a good 
majority of CMLTs students participate in 
this type of conduct nearly every weekend.
Additionally, there were some general 
violations of regulations. One of these is 
garzorching. Sounds like fun, but Websters 
hasn't heard of it; there is no entry in the 
dictionary between Gaziantep, a city in 
Southern Turkey, and Gazpucho, a Spanish 
soup.
Also included under general violations is 
pranks "potentially harmful to people". 
How does one distiguish a harmful prank 
from a harmless prank? I'm sure Security is 
on a 24 hour watch for these.
This administration sure doesn't seem like 
it wants to let us have fun. Nonetheless, 
I'm still going gazorching.
Letters Cont.:
Greeks Should Reassess Role
Editor:
I was quite amused to read last week's 
article "Diy Rush Gives Us Dry Heaves." 
Members of the campus community have 
suggested that the prime purpose of 
fraternities is getting drunk, replenishing 
their numbers with freshmen by getting 
them drunk, and attracting girls to their 
houses. It seems ironic that fraternity 
members, who have traditionally gotten 
very defensive whenever anyone made such 
an observation, claiming that they serve a 
very important social function, would get 
so upset when only one of these roles 
(namely, getting freshmen drunk) is taken 
away. They seem to fear their entire 
livelihood is threatened, which it may be. It 
will be interesting to see how well the 
fraternities' "important social function" 
attracts new members on its own without 
the lure of a chance to get wasted on IC 
Lite.
Another angle at which to view the 
situation is as a minor correction to a
major double standard. Sororities have 
never been allowed to serve alcohol at 
Rush and instead must charge a dollar to 
"register" each "rushee" with the lure of 
"ice cream socials." In addition, they are 
not allowed to have visitors of the opposite 
sex above the ground floor of their houses. 
Do fraternities have this restriction? Do 
sororities advertise parties to which "All 
men are invited"?
I see Dry Rush as an opportunity for the 
fraternities to soberly reassess their role on 
campus and for the rest of us to observe 
whether or not they truly have any 
redeeming social value to the student body 
in general. Not to mention an opportunity 
for Morewood Gardens residents to get a 
few hours of sleep and for everyone to be 
able to walk up Morewood Ave. on a 
Sunday morning without the sight of 
hundreds of empty beer cups.
Steve Vanderhoof
Math '87
Fourth Amendment to the Constitution gives protection against unlawful search and seizure. Lawful search and seizure is 
based on having probable cause to suspect a person. By its construction, a mandatory 
drug test does not have probable cause 
before it attempts to search for drugs in a 
person's blood. Therefore, the mandatory 
test violates the Fourth Amendment. Judge 
Sarokin: "The public interest in
eliminating drugs in the workplace is 
substantial, but to invade the privacy of the 
innocent in order to discover the guilty 
establishes a dangerous precedent, one 
which our Constitution mandates be 
rejected."
There is a way to combat drugs in the 
workforce that is constitutional. The 
Constitution permits use of the drug test 
provided there is prior probable cause. 
When an employer suspects a worker of 
drug use, the employer can force the 
employee to submit to the test. If the test 
shows positive, the employer should obtain 
a second, and even third, sample in order to
drug use, not only should he be fired, his name should be turned over to the law enforcement authorities.
When employees realize that the risks of drug use involve not only personal injury 
but loss of job and possible criminal 
prosecution, the number of drug users in 
the workforce will drop. But this will not 
cure the problem, only curb it. In order to 
cure the problem, it is necessary to 
eliminate the demand for drugs. This can 
only be accomplished through massive 
public awareness campaigns.
While mandatory testing appears to be a 
solution for the problem, it is 
unconstitutional, which renders it helpless 
in the war on drugs. A more viable 
alternative is repeated testing of employees 
only with prior probable cause to suspect 
drug use. This, coupled with informing the 
police of known drug users will help the 
battle, but will not win the war. In order to 
win the war, the public must lose its 
insatiable appetite for drugs. When the 
demand for drugs is eliminated, all the evils 
that come from drugs will also beprove the tests accuracy.
If, at that point, the employee still shows eliminated.
Denburg Speaks on Tartan Pride
By JIM DENBURG
Being a Tartan is much more than 
studying for four years and leaving  never 
to return again. Its a life long commitment 
of getting involved and supporting each
Column\_UlUlllliI
y.y, V'.
other. This involvement and support creates 
a strong bond between us which we feel for 
die rest of our lives and will give us an 
identity, as a Tartan, which we can be 
proud of.
It is important for people to have others 
they can count on. The bond that we have 
as Tartans provides us with thousands of 
people who we know we can turn to. One 
day ypu may be in a city where you are a 
newcomer. Chances are there is a Tartan 
who, I'm sure, would be glad to take you in 
or help you out. In you future business
dealings you may be in a bind and you need 
a favor; go to a Tartan; there is no 
one better to get you out of a jam. Or there 
may be a time when your car is broken 
down on the side of the highway; if another 
Tartan sees your Carnegie Mellon sticker 
I'm sure he'll stop and give you a helping 
hand. These examples are reasons why it's 
great to have the Tartan bond.
This Saturday at 12:30 there will be a tail
gate party on the IM field before the 
football game against Duquesne. There will 
be food, music, Tartan enthusiasm, and 
much more. (The food is free.) It's going to 
be a great event in which we should all 
participate in. Let's begin strengthening the 
Tartan bond now by attending events 
together and making them a success.
By the way, let's get together in 5 years 
for a beer and talk about the great time we 
had at the '86 tail-gate party. See you there.
GO TARTANS! CRUSH DUQUESNE!
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Managing Editor
Drue Miller
News Editor
John Friedmann
Sports Editor
Albrecht T. Powell
Production Manager
John BabichDossier Editor
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Joshua M. Levine
Features Editor
Olve Peersen
Photography Editor
Celeste Clark
Ad Manager
Neil GreenblumContributing Editor
Dave Levy
Tartan Assistant
Andrew Robitshek
Business Manager
Bruce Kasrel
Entertainment Editor
Kurt ShawArt Editor
Kathryn A. Sitter
Typesetting Manager
Jack L. PollerContributing Editor
The Tartan is the official student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the 
fall and spring semesters by students at no cost 
to members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. 
The Editorial appearing at the beginning fo the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions of individual authors who are not 
necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or 
staff. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
individual authors who are usually members of 
the University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for verification. Names will be withheld upon request.
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter or column. Copyright 1986 by The Tartan. The editorial board reserves the 
right to withhold from publication any copy it 
deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890- 
3107.
Members of The Tartan editorial board receive 
the following yearly salanes from the University: 
Editor-in-Chief: $1,800, Managing Editor: $1,350, 
Business Manager:$1,350, News Editor: $1,000, 
Features Editor: $1,000, Entertainment Editor$1,000, Sports Editor:$1,000, Art Editor:$1,000, Photography Editor $1,000.

---------------------------------------------------

s
Womens Health Services:
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St.. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900 
Toll Free: 1 (800) 323-4636
WHS Survival Kit
Name
Street.
City
College (if student)
StateJZip
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
If you hate to write...
If you have trouble capturing your thoughts on paper...
If your writing style is bringing down your QPA..
You need WORD DOCTORS.
Let WORD DOCTORS' writing experts edit your next paper, lab report or essay...or even your thesis.
Special Student rates.
Call 682-3380 or 481-6669.
WORD DOCTORSthe professional editing service
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
Begins: Tuesday - September 23,1986
-Calculus 
(Pre, I, II, HI)
-Physics
-Chemistry
-Academic Writing Problems 
-Financial Accounting 
-Economics 
-Intro. To Computing
PH 126 A
PH126B 
PH 126C 
PH 125B 
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
WeH 5415
Each Week
Sunday through Thursday  7pm-10pm
-Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs
I
High Technology
Job Fair
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1986
SKIBO BALLROOM, 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM
UNDERGRADUATES AND GRADUATES...
Mark your calendars and prepare your resumes!!!
Here is a unique opportunity to talk to recruiters from over thirty leading Pittsburgh high 
technology companies involved in areas such as:
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE/ INDUSTRY AUTOMATION/ 
BIOMEDICAL/ MED 1C A LTE CHNOL OGY/ COMPUTER 
SOFTWARE/ ADVANCED MATERIALS/ ELECTRICAL/ 
MECHANICAU INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING/ COMPUTER 
INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING/ ELECTRONIC 
COMPONENTS/ MATERIALS PROCESSING/ ROBOTICS 
COMPUTER HARDWARE/
Third Annual Job Fair -Sponsored by the Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
and Carnegie Mellon University, Office of Career and Placement.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 19
Mens X-Country
By Stewart Levine
Tartan Staffwriter
jyjost teams go to cross-country meets to 
win. but according to Head Coach Gary 
Meckley, the men's cross country team this 
weekend went to Indiana to get "the heck 
ground out of us." But the Tartans emerged 
with the Division III meet title. From a field 
of over 20 schools from Div. I, II, and III as 
well as the NAIA, the Tartans placed sixth 
in the field, tops among Division III 
schools. The men were led by the running 
of freshman Dave Supp who finished 19th 
overall, sophomore Pat Noll came in soon 
after in 23rd place.
By most standards, the Tartans looked 
good, but Meckley seemed a little 
disappointed after the race. " I feel we
could've run a much better race. Keith 
Stopen had a really bad race. Keith has been 
sick all year, he'll be the first to admit he 
feels bad all the time; With a real good race, 
we could've been 3rd maybe, a good 
possibility we could've beaten Pitt."
Meckley; however, did not seem too 
surprised with the results. "We really were 
overmatched. There were a whole lot of 
people in the meet, running in a race with 
150 people is a lot different than runninng 
with 20 or 25. Weve got to learn to race 
like that. This meet was tougher than the 
NCAA Qualifier, schools like Pitt, Ohio U, 
Old Doiminion, and Mount Saint Mary are 
better than the best schools in our region. 
We have to look out for Frostburg, 
Glassboro, and Haverford."Women's X-Country
By Stewart Levine
Tartan Staffwriter
A year ago, the women's cross country 
team did not have enough runners to field a 
team at the Allegheny Invitationa, this year 
they brought enough to be able to finish 
seventh in the field of eleven schools. The 
event was dominated by soon-to-be UAA 
rival, the University of Rochester which 
won taking four of the top seven fmishs. 
Also appearing from the UAA was Case 
Western Reserve which finished tenth.
The women were again led by the running 
of freshman Sue Johnson who finished 21st 
over tne 3.1 mile course in a time of 20:26.
She was followed less than a minute later by 
Francesca Crannell and Theresa Pane who 
placed 35th and 37th respectively.
Head Coach Mindy Maxwell was pleased 
with the results. "I was impressed with how 
they ran the course. It was a good 
opportunity to compete against high-quality 
runners, it pushes you."
Crannell summed up the race for her 
teammates saying, "We ran too fast early, 
then died. However, we do have a really 
good team. We have reallly tight groups, 
sets of two or three which run together." 
Diane Ceonzo concurred, "The tourse was 
really flat, and really fast. We all missed the 
boat on the course, we thought we'd drop off 
later in the course then we did. Our 
unfamiliarity with the course hurt"
This week, the Lady Tartans will be on 
more familiar turf when they take on 
crosstown rival Robert Morris, Saturday at 
11AM ph Flagstaff Hill.
Results
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 
Q 
10 
21 
35 
37 
68
72
73
77
78 
80
University of Rochester 
Fredonia State 
Allegheny 
Mount Union 
Oberlin 
SUNY Buffalo 
Carnegie Mellon 
Buffalo State 
Otterbein
Case Western Reserve 
Canisius
Carolyn MischRochester18:26
Cathy GrainFredonia19:11
Jen ShaferAllegheny19:16
Josefa BenzoniRochester19:18
Kata RitenburgRochester19:34
Tina Croninot Union19:35
Stacy LennonRochester19:40
C. LemanskiFredonia19:41
C. DonahughOtterbein19:43
Chris DudeckAllegheny20:02
Sue JohnsonCMU20:26
F. CrannellCMU21:19
Teresa PayneCMU21:20
Doris KwongCMU24:13
M. Stempkowski CMU24:25
Molly MoritzCMU24:34
Tiffany Pickering CMU25:03
Maria ZacroceCMU25:26
Diane CeonzoCMU25:55
36
53
61
159
171
208
233
242
243 
292 
Inc.
The women's field hockey team earned two victories this week, 
1-0 against Muskingum College and 3-2 versus Chatham.
SPORTSLINE
Every Week...
on WRCT
Tartan Sports Staff Meeting
The Tartan office, Tuesday, 8 pm
New Writers Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 20
Dukes Triumph Over Tartan Men's Tennis Team
By Neal Levene
Tartan Staffwriter
Friday, the men's tennis team lost their 
first fall match to Duquesne University by 
the score of 7-2. The official men's tennis 
season does not begin until the spring but 
Coach Peter Hawk likes to use these Fall 
matches as a barometer to see where the 
team's weaknesses are as well as to prepare 
the team for spring play.
The men's tennis team has won the PAC 
championship two years in a row. Last 
year CMU won with a team consisting 
almost entirely of freshmen, with the 
exception of one sophomore.
Coach Hawk thinks he has a winning 
team with great potential this year. 
Furthermore, he believes that when a 
winning team loses, as they did against 
Duquesne, the team needs to regroup, 
analyze their weaknesses, and dedicate 
themselves to improving their play. The 
Coach was pleased that after their matches 
most of the players seemed concerned to . 
determine what they had done wrong and 
where they could improve.
Since Coach Hawk has been busy 
coaching the women's team this fall, the 
men's team has needed to practice on their 
own. After their match, several players 
admitted that they weren't in as good of
shape as they had previously thought they 
were.
Since sophomore Keith Grumet, Carnegie 
Mellon's usual #1 player, was unable to 
play Friday due to illness, the Coach 
moved all the players up one rank.
But Duquesne recently recruited Troy 
Turkin, a junior with sophomore el
igibility, to play in their #1 position 
causing all their other players to move 
down one ranking. This created a situation 
in which each team member faced an 
opponent who would normally be ranked 
two spots better than his Tartan opponent. 
Coach Hawk thinks that these match-ups 
will provide his players with valuable 
experience beneficial in later season play.
The two Carnegie Mellon wins came 
from Darin Kaplan and Dave Dillon. 
Kaplan beat his opponent Lou Biscardo in 
two quick 6-3, 6-3 sets. Similarly, Dave 
trounced foe Ruddy Dabbous in two sets. 
While Dillon's play was a little 
inconsistent in the first set, he jumped out 
to an early lead in the tie-breaker, 
aggressively displaying several exceptional 
first services and a number of profitable 
ball placements.
Several unforced errors plagued him later 
in the game. However, he eventually rallied 
to win the tie breaker 7-5. He continued on 
to win the second set with a strong 6-1
finish.
Outstanding in the day's matches was the 
play of Camiege Mellon freshman Russ 
Riben in an exhibition game against 
Duquesne's Bryant Gilot. Riben won his 
match 6-0, 6-2, and looked very strong in 
both of his sets. After the match, Riben 
commented that he thought he had played a 
good game but felt he still needed a lot 
more practice. Coach Hawk stated that with 
a little improvement Riben will have a 
good chance at a regular position in singles 
play this spring. The coach plans to play 
Riben in a ranked singles match against the 
University of Pittsburgh Panthers next 
Thursday.
Although his team did not fair well in the 
final score of their first match of this year, 
the coach looks forward to great success for 
the team this year in the President's 
Athletic Conference championships.
The next match for the men will be away 
on Thursday versus the University of Pitts
burgh Panthers. The game will begin at 
4:00 p.m.
Womens 
Tennis
In women's tennis, the Tartans won a
decisive 7-2 victory on Tuesday against 
California University of Pennsylvania 
bringing their overall record to 2-1. The 
Carnegie Mellon team swept all three 
doubles matches, continuing their streak of 
having lost only one doubles match this 
season.
Ann Kim, a sophomore, moved up to the 
#6 position this week by beating her 
teammates Jamie Nagely and Alyssa Allen 
in challenge matches. Getting off to a 
good start, she won her first match this 
season in a 6-1, 6-0 victory against her 
opponent Jennifer Levitt.
Captain Darla Messick had a particularly 
good day with wins in both singles and 
doubles. She has won her last three 
consecutive matches, bringing her record to 
3-3.
Suzi Dottor and Beth Cavanaugh also had 
victories in both singles and doubles, 
making their personal records to 6-0 and 5- 
1 respectively.
Thursday's scheduled match against 
Washington and Jefferson College was 
canceled due to rain. The contest has not 
been rescheduled as of yet.
The team's next match is at Bethany 
College on Monday, September 22. On 
Saturday, September 27, the Tartans will 
oppose Hiram College at home at 1:00 
p.m.
Everyones talking 
about Shadyside 
Commons  the 
4-star luxury ren
tals close to the best shops, 
restaurants, parks and galler
ies in town!
Each charming, spacious 
apartment features lofty ceil
ings and exposed brick walls & 
beams. Gourmet kitchens with 
microwaves. And individual 
washers and dryers. Theres 
an open-air courtyard and free 
parking, too. Come visit Pitts
burghs rising new star today!
401 Amberson Ave., Pittsburgh  683-9101 
Sales office and furnished models open 
Mon.-Fri. 10-6, Sat. & Sun. 12-5. Studio,
1 & 2 bedroom apartments from $540/mo. 
Includes FREE PARKING!
The one. The only. The best.
810 IVY STREET SHADYSIDE
682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO: -O'
 Shadyside  Pt. Breeze 
 Sq. Hill  Oakland 
 Friendship Park 
 Bloomfield 
1 Highland Park
Fat
FREE DELIVERY
FAST FREE DELIVERY _
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGH
COUPON
I Large Cheese Pizza
 $ 3.99
! Free liter of coke
I
(All sandwiches come with n.elted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie.............................4.00
Vi Hoagie..................................2.00Hot Sausage...............................3.90Meat Ball....................................3.90Cheese Hoagie..........................3.20Steak Hoagie..............................4.20Pizza Steak Hoagie.....................4.20Cold Sub.................................... 4.00Capicolla (Deluxe).......................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Green
Peppers, Mushrooms 4 that Special Touch)
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tomato, onion  unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms  25* Extra)
 PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA 

---------------------------------------------------

'Q&
CMUvs.
v DUQUESNE
TAILGATE
y
Saturday 
September 27,1986 
12:30pm IM Field
Bring your CMU i.d. &the food's on us!
Rain Location: Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 22Major League Baseball: Post-Season Picks
By Perry Pierce
Tartan Staffwriter
As the 1986 Major League season draws 
to a close, all the pennant races have lost 
their intensity. This year will not have any 
final weekend nailbiters, as each first place 
team holds over a seven game lead with 
less than 15 to play.
The unbelievable Mets mercifully ended 
the National League East race by clinching 
their division last Wednesday. Houston 
looks to have the National League West 
locked up, as they have held a lead despite 
the surges of most of the other teams in the 
league.
The American League had some tighter 
races, with the Boston Red Sox have 
staving off attacks by the New York 
Yankees, Toronto Blue Jays, and Baltimore 
Orioles. The American League West 
proved to be a battle of age and youth, with 
the California Angels holding off the 
youthfull Texas Rangers.
The National League Championship 
proves to be a pitcher's duel, with a slight 
edge to the Mets. The Mets have Dwight
Gooden, Ron Darling, and Bob Ojeda 
scheduled to be in the starting rotation. 
They will be dropping Sid Fernandez to 
long relief in order to solidify the bullpen.
The Astros will probably go with Mike 
Scott, A1 Knipper, and the infamous Nolan 
Ryan. All six of these starters have had 
exceptional seasons, and all think that the 
pitching matchups will be a key to the 
series.
Expect to see a lot of 2-1, 3-0, 1-0 type 
games as the best hurlers in the National 
League fight it out for a date with destiny 
in the World Series.
Both teams have exceptional hitting, as 
the Mets are hitting .264, and the Astros 
are hitting .258. The Astros only deficit is 
in their ability to score runs, as the Mets 
have scored over seven hundred runs this 
year, while the Astros have only 600. The 
Mets have great power in their 3-4-5 slots, 
with Keith Hernandez, Darryl Strawberry, 
and Gary Carter, coupled with the ability of 
Wally Backman and Lenny Dykstra tosteal, 
give them the power to score at any 
moment. With all these factors, the Mets
should handle the Astros in six games.
The American League Championship 
Series is less cloudy than the National 
League, as the Boston Red Sox have a 
virtual lock on the title. Boston has been 
strong all year with the pitching of Rodger 
Clemens, Bruce Hurst, and Dennis Boyd. 
But California has the best ERA in the
Perrys Pick: The Mets in 
7 Games
league at 3.86, but they are followed 
closely by the Red Sox at 3.92. With the 
Red Sox playing at Fenway half the year, it 
is clear to see that the Red Sox have a far 
surperior pitching staff.
From the plate, the Red Sox also hold a
>
At NSA,
We Have The 
Intelligence 
To Keep Your 
Options Open.
Electrical / Electronic / Computer Engineers... 
Computer Scientists...Mathematicians... 
Language Specialists
Latitude. Thats what keeps a job invigorating 
the chance to expand your interests, to take 
on unheard of challenges, to grow out as well as 
up. Well, thats precisely what the National 
Security Agency offers you as one of our people.
NSA performs three all-important tasks. We 
analyze foreign communications. We safeguard 
Americas vital communications. We set secur
ity standards for the governments mammoth 
computer systems. And we want you in on the 
job.
NSA offers choices upon choices. In assign
ments. In projects. In careers. But whatever 
your role, its going to make a difference; its 
going to produce immediate results.
For an Electrical / Electronic / Computer 
Engineer options abound. In fact, the entire 
technological and functional spectrum are 
yours for exploration. Microprocessor im
plementation and programming, communica
tions systems, LSI/VLSI, CAD/CAM, systems 
architecture and optics. Among others.
To the Computer Scientist, we deliver op
portunities across the frontier of finite state 
machine development. The applications realm: 
systems design and programs, applications and 
evaluation, and computer security research and 
design.
Mathematicians research a variety of mathe
matical concepts including probability theory, 
statistics, Galois theory and group theory.
Language Specialists in Slavic, Near Eastern 
and Asian languages meet the challenges of 
translation, transcription and analysis head 
on. Every day.
Whatever your field, you can be certain to 
find many paths cleared for you. Youll also find 
a competitive salary, enticing benefits and an 
appealing suburban location between two vital 
urban centersWashington and Baltimore.
For additional information, schedule an in
terview with your College Placement Office. Or 
write to the National Security Agency.
NSA will be on campus Oct. 14th interviewing 
graduating seniors. Limited summer positions 
available for those who have completed junior 
year.
NATIONALSECURITYAGENCY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322 (AAM)
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000
U.S. citizenship required for applicant and immediate 
family members.
An equal opportunity employer.
big edge. Boston is hitting a strong .273 
compared to an average .260 for the 
Angels. Granted that the Red Sox averages are inflated by the venerable Fenway; 
hitters like Boggs, Rice, Buckner, and 
Evans, look for the Red Sox to take the series in 5 games.
Now a look at the 1986 World Series. 
The Mets and Boston have been the two 
best teams in 1986, and if they lock up in 
the Series, expect a seven game war 
between the two teams. The two met at 
the beginning of September for a charity 
cause in Boston, and the Mets won the 
game 7-3. The papers all around had 
healines to the effect that the Mets had won 
game one. The Mets may have won the 
exhibition game, but don't expect Boston 
to lay down and play dead. The only big 
question mark that Boston has is if they 
can score like they are accustomed to 
against the devistating pitching staff that 
the Mets possess. All factors considered, 
expect to see an exciting series that should 
last the full seven games, with the Mets 
coming out on top.
Best 
performing 
scooter for 
its size.
The Yamaha Riva Jog is 
the highest performing 
50cc scooter made.
Plus, you get to go 
in style. The Jog looks 
great with bright bold colors for 86.
And, it gets great gas 
mileage. But who says 
economical has to mean 
uncomfortable. The Jog 
offers comfortable seating with a wide stepthrough floorboard 
to boot.
The Riva Jog has a lot 
of other features to offer, 
including automatic 
transmission, electric 
start and a complete line 
of accessory items. And we have a lot of other 
Yamaha Riva models to 
choose from.So, come in today. It 
costs nothing to look, 
and not much more 
to own.
Bob Tracy's World of Cycles 8070 Ohio River B1 766-9211

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage 23
The Intramural Report
The schedules for the 1986 Faculty and 
Staff Tennis Tournament have been mailed to all players. Additional copies can be picked up in the Intramural Office, Room 
101 Gym Building, or call Mr. Birdy at 
Ext. 2214 and he will be happy to mail 
schedules to you.
The first round should be played between 
September 22nd and September 26th.
The team on the right of the schedule will 
arrange the time and date of the match to be 
played. The winning teams must turn in 
scores to the Intramural Office within 24 
hours of the match.
Vince Carozza of TX was elected Vice 
President of the Intramural Board for 1986- 
1987. Vince was President of the IM Board 
last year.
Sports in Season
Touch Football 
Commissioners
MajorsPaul Pecora 621-9124 
IntermediateVic Banko x5403 
MinorsVince Carozza x5494 
WomenDee Nyzio x4608 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Please play all games as 
scheduled. We still have openings for teams 
in the Womens Touch Football League.
IM Tennis
CommissionerRob Schlackman x5518. 
Pick up the playing schedules in IM Office. 
Winning teams please report the scores of 
your matches to the Commissioner or the 
Intramural Office in the Gym on the team 
results slip.
Golf
Sign-ups are permitted up to the playing 
date of Sunday, September 28. Green fee to 
play 18 holes is $4.00. Club rental will be 
provided at a $5.00 charge. Scores must be 
turned in within 24 hours of your match, to 
the IM Office or to the Commissioner Paul 
Pecora (621-9124). Playing time may start
anytime after 9 AM. All players must 
check in with Golf Professional Fran 
Barrett at the Schenley Park Course. Four 
person team or individual.
Sports Coming Up
Co-Rec Volleyball
Entries were due Thursday, September 
18th. Play will begin this week. Please 
check IM Bulletin Board for playing 
schedules.
CommissionerKevin Neel x4618
Cross-Country Meet 
CommissionerPual Pecora 621-9124 
Meet will be held Thursday. October 9th at 
4:30 PM on Flagstaff Hill. The course will 
be 1.9 miles. Everyone is welcome to run 
in this event!! Special heats will be run for 
faculty and staff and for women only. You 
may run as a 5 person team or as an 
individual.
Chess
CommissionerStuart Fox x4259 
Entry date moved to Monday, Sept. 29th. 
Last Call.
Water Polo
CommissionerHal Levine x4077 
Last Call. Final entry date September 25th 
at 4:40 PM. Please sign up for practice 
pool time on the IM Board. Each team 
must provide a certified lifeguard for their 
match.
Sports due Thursday, October 2nd 
at 4:30 PM
Soccer
Entry date moved back to October 2nd. A 
commissioner is needed.
Six Person Volleyball
Entry date has been moved back to Oct. 
2nd. A commissioner is needed.
Bowling
CommissionerVince Carozza x5494 
Matches will be rolled on Strand Lanes. 
Teams must pay 1/2 of bowling fee when 
you sign up your team. Register by 
October 2nd.
Raquetball
Entry due date is October 2nd. A commissioner is needed.
Team Table Tennis
Entry date October 2nd. A commissioner is 
needed.
Officials Club
We still need good officials for all sports. If 
you are interested in joining the Officials 
Club, please sign up with Mike Mast
roianni in Room 101 Gym or call him at 
x2214.
New Business
The Intramural Touch Football teams 
request that something be done to improve 
the condition of the Intramural Touch 
Football fields.
Next Meeting
The next Intramural Board meeting will be 
held Thursday, October 2nd at 12:30 PM in 
the IM Office Room 101 in the Gym. 
Please plan to attend this important 
meeting now!
Grad
Softball
Over 150 graduate students managed to 
take a break from their research activities 
this summer to participate in the CMU 
graduate softball league. The league, under 
the guidance of commissioners Joe 
Sczurko and Jim Mihelcic, began to play 
in late May and concluded August 28th. 
Twelve teams from nine departments 
participated with the top eight finishers 
qualifying for the playoffs.
Psych 1, the reigning CMU intramural 
softball champions (Intermediate 
Division), took first place honors for the 
regular season with a 10-1 mark. Comp 
Sci (9-2), Mems2 (8-3) and EE2 (8-3) 
copped the remaining top seeds for the 
playoffs. Civil Eng., Mech. Eng., Memsl 
and Chem/Bio were the other four playoff 
qualifiers.
Civil Engineering (7-4), however, proved 
to be the hot team at the end of the season. 
After upsetting EE2 in the opening round, 
the CivE's then blanked Comp Sci 13-0 to 
capture the league championship.
"The softball league was a lot of fun and 
I think everyone enjoyed getting together 
with other grad students during the 
summer," said Psych 1 outfielder Steve 
Newberg. "Play really improved over the 
course of the season and games were 
competitive."
Despite space limitations on the IM field, 
plans call for expansion of the graduate 
student league for the summer of 1987.
PICKUP
A PARTY
THIS BUD SFOR YOIK
BUDWEISER*KING OF BCERS*ANHEUSER BUSCH INC "ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
"Academic Bowl " is First Regular Season Loss Since 1984Comeback Too Late as Gridders Fall 21-14
Kick returner Bill Cramer is brough down 
following Case Reserves third touchdown.
to no avail. In fact, the argument slowed 
down the sending in of the CMU play and 
caused the assesment of a delay of game 
penalty against the Tartans. On that drive, 
Carnegie Mellon achieved one more first 
down, but evenually stalled on the Spartan 
23.
It was linebacker Ron Orie that started the 
comeback drive. On the very next series, he 
picked off a Mike Denk pass at Case 33 yard 
line and returned it to the 30. Mike Hensel 
flipped a nine yard pass to Tim Denmeade, 
who on the next play dodged tacklers and ran 
the ball into the end zone to avoid 
possibility of the Tartan's first offensive 
shutout since 1972.
The next Case Reserve drive chewed up 
five minues of the fourth quarter and almost 
buried the Tartans. The Spartans advanced 
from their own 20 yard line to the CMU 19, 
but the 36 yard field goal attempt (which 
would have made the score 24-6) was no 
good.
Regaining posession deep in their own 
territory, the Tartans followed a three yard 
Demeade run with seven straight passes, five 
of which were complete. The last of that 
string was a 19 yard toss to freshman Mike 
Beresford. That reception, the highly-touted 
receiver's first as a Tartan, brought CMU to 
the Spartan 14 yard line. Mike Hensel 
followed a 12 yard Mike Minjock run with a 
two yard touchdown dump to tight end Tim 
Kelly, the first scoring reception by a tight 
end this year.
Despite the loss, Carnegie Mellon could 
still be in the hunt for an NCAA playoff 
spot. PAC rival Washington and Jefferson
Photo by Andy Gillespie
after returning the kickoff
College fell 24-7 to Randolph-Macon 
College, bringing their record to 2-1. 
Mercyhurst, an Erie, PA school that makes 
frequent NCAA playoff appearances, also has 
a defeat already blemishing its record this 
year.
Camegie-Mellon's loss, coming in a nonconference contest, does not affect the 
Tartans' quest for the President's Athletic 
Conference grid crown, which begins at 
home October 4 versus John Carroll
University.
Notes - Carnegie Mellon's last regular 
season loss came against Case in 1984, a 
year the Spartans went undefeated for the 
fime in their history, but failed to make the 
NCAA playoffs...Case has won three out of 
the last four contests...Two Carnegie Mellon 
teams played with a few miles of each other 
Saturday; the football team at CWRU, the 
soccer team down the road at John 
Carroll...Tackle Brian Roessler was named 
the WRCT Player of the Game...The 
Academic Bowl trophy is inscribed 
"committed to academic and atheletic 
excellence"
Next Week - The Tartans will try to 
regain their winning ways as they fight the 
Duquesne Dukes for the unofficial Divsion 
III Pittsburgh football title. The Dukes are 3-
0 on the season, and have won two games 
on the road so far, two more than last year.
Last week, a late field goal gave Duquesne 
the lead over the Bethany Bisons late in the 
fourth quarter. With seconds to go, Bethany 
tried a series of lateral passes which resulted 
in a Duquesne touchdown, ensuring the 
victory.
A player to watch for is is linebaacker 
Vinnie Vaccarello. He earned squad MVP 
honors as a freshman last year, and led the 
team with 101 tackles and eight sacks.
Carnegie Mellon has won four in a row and 
five of the six modem meetings between the 
two teams. Saturday's contest, the first 
Tartan home game of the seaon, is scheduled 
for Tech Field at 1:30 pm.
The Injury Report - Strong Safety Dan 
Preston makes the list for the second straight 
week with another concussion, his fifth in 
four years. He will be checked out by a 
specialist this week, but will not play 
against Duquesne.
Ken Harris, a starting defensive tackle, has 
a strained left shoulder and is listed as 
probable for next week. Also rating probable 
status in Gerry Bosch, a sophomore 
linebacker, who has a bruised right elbow.
On the long term injury list, Dan 
Lankitus' injured shoulder has improved, but 
he is still questionable for Saturdays 
contest Mike Colucci, a staring guard who 
has been out since the start of pre-season 
camp, will have his broken foot x-rayed this 
week and may have his cast removed. Once 
out of the cast, he faces a rehabilitation 
period of 4-6 weeks.
The Scoreboard
FootballMen1s Tennis
Case Reserve 21Duquesne 7
Carnege Mellon 14Carnegie Mellon 2
SoccerVolleyball
Carnegie Mellon 1Seton Hill 3
John Carroll 1Carnegie Mellon 1
Women's TennisWomen's Cross-Country
Carnegie Mellon 77th of 11 at
California U. 2Allegheny.
of PA.
Field HockeyMen's Cross Country
Carnegie Mellon 1First in Div. Ill
Muskingum 0at Indiana
Carnegie Mellon 3
Chatham 2
By John Friedmann
Tartan Sports Editor
Over the last 47 years, the Tartans are 0-2 
in Bowl games. On January 2, 1939, the 
Carnegie Tech football team fell to Texas 
Christian University 15-7 in the fifth annual 
Sugar Bowl. Last Saturday, Case Western 
Reserve University topped the Tartans 22-14 
in the first Academic Bowl.
The Tartans, despite entering the fourth 
quarter behind 21-0, made a valiant attempt 
to salvage the game. Carnegie Mellon 
clawed back to reduce the Case lead to seven, 
and had the ball cm their own 35 with 1:49 
left in the game. But the two-minute offense 
was shattered by the Case Spartans, who 
sacked Hensel twice. CMU was forced to 
turn the ball back to Case, who ran out the 
clock to preserve the victory.
After the game, Head Coach Lackner had 
praise for the way the Tartans Died to make 
up the deficit. "I think that our kids have 
enough pride in themsleves and in our 
program that they're a never-say-die football 
team."
Two critical factors killed the Tartans on 
Saturday: turnovers and the inability to 
establish the running game.
Carnegie Mellon turned the ball over at 
total of seven times; three fumbles and four 
interceptions. The Tartans gave the ball 
away the first three times they had it. All of 
the Case scoring was set up by turnovers. 
Hensel's four interceptions were almost half 
his entire 1985 total (9). Coach Rick 
Lackner discouted nervousness about playing 
Case as a factor in causing the turnovers, 
noting "We have mostly seniors on our 
team. I don't think nervousness had anything 
to do with it"
The story of the rushing game was equally 
dismal. Carnegie Mellon was unable to 
consistently establish the run early in the 
game, thus negating its value in setting up 
the pass. Lackner commented that "Early in 
the game, I don't know that we had the 
muscle to punch them [Case] off the 
football."
The second half saw the rushing attack 
improve, however, enabling the offense to 
produce better results.
The reason for the improvement lies in part 
with the offensive line. During the first half, 
the CMU line was having trouble handling 
the Case defense on a man-to-man basis. But 
a switch to double-teaming helped the Tartan 
backfield rack up mere yardage.
Tim Denmeade led all CMU rushers with 
42 yards, not necessarily a poor total in view 
of the Tartans balanced rushing attack. But 
Denmeade's total was over half the team 
tally of 71 yards. Behind him were Mike 
Minjock and Anthony Collaros with 34 and 
16 yards respectively. Quarterback Mike 
Hensel, usually one of the workhorses of the 
ground attack, carried the ball 10 times for a 
total of minus 21 yards.
The prime offensive force in the contest 
was the Mike Hensel - Roy Teresky passing 
combination. Senior QB Hensel completed 
21 of 39 passes, (not including the four 
interceptions) for 293 yards, an average of 
fourteen yards per throw. Teresky, a senior 
split end, had eight catches for 119 yards.
But there was one catch that Teresky didnt 
have. Carnegie Mellon drove from their 
own 21 yard line late in the third quarter, and 
had a second down and seven to go on the 
Spartan 36. Hensel connected with Teresky 
down the left sideline, but the line judge 
ruled that Teresky was out of bounds when 
he caught the ball. The Tartans argued, but

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
Pittsburgh's best and the Modern Jazz Quartet play benefit
PITTSBURGH,PA July 15, 1986The 
Legenday Modem Jazz Quartet (MJQ) and 
an All-Star Pittsburgh Jazz Band will play 
Wednesday, September 24 at Heinz Hall in 
Jazz II, a concert for the benefit of the 
Pittsburgh Ronald McDonald House.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation and 
KDKA-TV are sponsors of the concert for 
the Ronald McDonald House, a home away 
from home for families of children with ser
ious illnesses. The House has hosted more 
that 800 families since opening in 1979.
Pittsburgh Steeler running back Walter
Abercrombie and KDKA-TV's "Evening 
Magazine" star Liz Miles are chairpersons 
for Jazz II.
Featuring Milt Jackson on the vibraharp, 
Connie Kay, drums; Percy Heath, bass; and 
John Lewis, piano; the MJQ has been one 
of America's most innovative jazz groups 
since 1955. Among its most important 
original recordings are "Django," "Fontessa," "Bag's Groove," "Pyramid," "Con
corde," and "The Golden Striker."
Sharing the stage, and up first for the 8 
p.m. concert, will be many of Pittsburgh's 
jazz gaints, playing together for the first
time. They will be led by Dr. Nathan 
Davis, director of jazz studies at the Univertisty of Pittsburgh and program dir
ector for Jazz II.
Included in the group of All Stars are 
trumpeters Wesley Ward, Danny Conn, 
Wayne George, Chuch Austuin and Ral
ph Guzzi; saxophonists Keith Bishop, 
Ken Powell, Ray DeFade, George Green 
and Jim Guerras; Trombonistis Harold 
Betters, Joe Dallas, Jerry Piecka, Randy 
Purcell, Nelson Harrison and Dick 
Smith; rhythm section including 
pianists Walt Harper and Johnny Costa;
Lee Ritenour to
By ERIC SINGER
Tat an Jazz Critic
Guitarist, composer, and studio 
musician Lee Ritenour will perform this 
Thursday at Graffiti. Ritenour has been 
on the music scene since 1974, when he 
began recording as a studio musician. 
He has played over 3000 sessions with a 
diversity of artists such as Steely Dan, 
Barbra Streisand, Frank Sinatra, Herbie 
Hancock, Kenny Loggins, Quincy 
Jones, George Benson, B. B. King, 
Keith Moon, Lou Reed, and Pink Floyd 
(to name just a few). At times, Lee was 
playing 15 to 20 studio sessions a week, 
earning him the nickname "Captain Fin
gers".
The first album Lee released under his 
own name was First Choice, in 1976. 
Since then, he has released fifteen more. 
Lee's most recent album is entitled Earth 
Run. The album is dedicated to an inter
national torch run, sponsored by the 
United Nations, which is planned for 
this year. Earth Run features Ritenour 
on acoustic and electric guitars, and on 
his new instrument, the SynthAxe. 
This oddly shaped instrument, pictured 
on the cover of the new album, is a 
digital guitar synthesizer, with MIDI 
interfacing.
Although you may not have known it, 
you have probably heard Lee Ritenours
Graffiti
Captin Fingers brings his guitar mastery to Pittsburgh on Thursday
guitar work on several movie soundtracks. 
Lee has been featured on the sound tracks of 
such films as Saturday Night Fever, A Star 
Is Born, Taxi Driver, Roots, 3 Days Of 
The Condor, and Heaven Can Wail. Lee's 
album, Rit, made it into the pop Top 30 
and jazz Top 5 in April, 1981. More
recently, his last year's release with Dave 
Grusin, entitled Harlequin, won a 
Grammy award.
See Lee perform this Thursday, 
September 15, at the Graffiti Lounge, 
4615 Baum Blvd. For tickets and 
information, call 682-4210.
bass player Ron Fudoli; guitarist Joe Negri; 
percussionist Cecil Washington; drummer 
Robert Throckmorton; and vocalist Sandy 
Staley.
"It is the finest collection of musicans every 
gathered for a Pittsburgh concert," Dr. Davis 
said. "This is a first for Pittsburgh and we 
hope it is a promise of things to come."
Another highlight will be the introduction of 
several special arrangements for the concert by 
two of the outstanding arrangers in jazz today, 
virtuoso trombonist Slide Homapton and Ben
ny Golson, musical director the "Jazztet" 
continued on page D5
Avante-garde sounds 
and sights in 
Home of the Brave
By MANNY THEINER
Tartan Music Critic
With her new concert movie, Home of the 
Brave, avant-garde performance artist Laurie 
Anderson dazzles the senses and intrigues the 
mind. Brandishing her double-edged sword of 
intellect and humour, Anderson satirizes the 
absurdities and praises the marvels of the 
modem age.
Anderson sets the film's tone from its 
beginning with a monologue on the signif
icance of the numbers 0 and 1 in American 
society. Zero means a nothing, a nobody, 
while in our atmosphere of frantic compet
ition, number one is the top of the heap. "The 
problem is the numbers are too close," 
Anderson concludes. "It leaves no room for 
everyone else."
Home of the Brave quickly compels you to 
leave your value judgments behind. In the 
same way that the two innocent looking 
binary numbers are the building blocks of the 
computer age, the identical instruments that 
popular musicians use to chum out Top 40 
fodder become roaring monsters in the hands 
of Anderson and her band.
Cascades of plaintive wails emanate from the
guitar of Adrian Belew, of art-rock groups
King Crimson and the Bears, supported by the
polyrhythmic pulsations of percuissionist
David Van Tieghem. Keyboardist Joy Askew
and sax player Richard Landry also contribute continued on page D8
Russian influence brings out the best in Maazel
ly KARYN SILVA
artan Music Critic
Friday night PSO conductor Lorin Maaxel 
rought Heinz Hall to a moment of 
;olute silence with his dramatic interpreilion of the fourth movement to Tchai,;.)vsky's Symphony No. 6 in B minor, 
1 /pus 74 (Pathetique)
The concert program which was also 
erformed Saturday and Sunday was a 
ribute to the Russian influence in music 
vith works by Tchaikovsky and ShosJcovich and guest artist Viktoria Mullova. 
he sequence of the works suggests a 
piritual bond between the composers. The 
Russian character is depicted in the emoton, the drama, the elation and the folklore 
foherent in the movements of many of their 
Scores.
Shostakovich's Violin Concerto No. 1 
was written for and premiered by late 
toaster violinist David Oistrakh who was
both colleague and inspiration to the 
composer. The first movement, Nocturne, 
illustrated her mastery over the high 
octaves of her instrument. Mullova also 
managed to convey an air of mystery and 
incorporate deep emotion into the music 
which contrasted with her serious 
appearance. The second movement, Scher
zo: Allegro, had an excellent interaction 
with the woodwinds in the almost car
toonlike melody. However there was a 
moment when orchestra and soloist were 
not quite together in their playing, but the 
previous harmony was recaptured after the 
entrance of the percussion when Mullova 
took the theme.
The Passacagalia movement concentrated 
on the cellos, basses and later the horns 
with no solo theme before the cadenza. The 
cadenza spotlighted Mullova's technical 
ability and her dramatic use of dynamics. 
The climax was enhanced by Maazel's
skillfull conducting as he brought in the 
orchestra with the concerto's final 
movement at the very height of the 
violin cadenza. Mullova was superb in 
the Burlesca, a stylized folkdance in the 
form of a rondo. Her technique was 
flawless and amazing. A standing ovat
ion completed her performance and there 
was definite excitement as the lights rose 
for intermission.
Mullova has won first prizes at the 
1975 Wieniawski Competition in 
Poland and the 1981 Sibelius Compet
ition in Finland. In 1982 she received 
the gold medal at the Tchaikovsky 
Competition in Moscow and during a 
tour of Finland in 1983 she defected to 
the West. Since then she has debuted as 
a soloist with the Berlin Philharmonic 
conducted by Seiji Ozawa, the London 
Symphony under Maxim Shostakovich, 
the Royal Philharmonic with Okku
Kamu and a tour of Japan where she again 
performed with Ozawa. This concert marked 
Mullova's debut with the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra.
Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6 was 
sketched in 1893 on the composer's return 
from his last tour. He concentrated on brood
ing melancholy and created the four move
ments of the piece to represent life, love, 
disillusionment and death. Symphony No. 6 
foreshadowed the composer's end as it was 
first performed in St. Petersburg on October 
28, 1893 under the direction of Tchaikovsky 
and he died on November 6 of that same year.
Under Maazel's skillfull conducting , Tchai
kovsky's Symphony No. 6 again reached the 
intense emotional drama that it is intended to 
convey. The audience returned from inter
mission anticipating an excellent performance 
and they received even more than expected. 
The first movement. Adagio-Allegro non 
continued on page D4

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage D2
of Joe Bob: The Fly and...Double dose
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive in Movie Critic
Speaking of geniuses, David Cronenbergs 
finally put out his drive-in masterpiece. 
Going IMMEDIATELY to No. 1 on the 
Best of 86 List is The Fly, which is even 
better than the one Dave ALREADY has in 
the Drive-In Hall of Fame, The Brood.
What we got here is the same story as the 
1958 version with Vincent Price, only this 
time the fly is fused with Jeff Goldblum 
and so we feel sorry for the fly. Actually 
what happens is Jeff deserves it, cause he's 
tryin to pick up Geena Davis by telepoddin 
stuff all over his apartment-- nylons, 
baboons, stuff like that  and so she falls 
in love with him and he ends up gettin 
drunk one night and jumpin into the 
telepod machine without chickin for flies 
cause evidently he didn't see the first 
movie. And so what happens?
Insect Fu.
At first Jeff is so charged up he flies 
around his crummy apartment doin scenes 
from Gymkata, but pretty soon his face 
starts to change. We got your basic Pizza 
Face look. Then we got Cream-of-Wheat 
Cancer Face. And finally, when things 
really get bad, we got your Vomit Jubilee 
Face. These may be the best drive-in 
makeup effects IN HISTORY.
We're talkin one breast. Two beasts in 
one body. Six quarts blood. Seven quarts 
vomit. Eight quarts undecided. Unsucessful 
Norelco cure. One compound fracture. 
Baboon zapping. Nylon stocking zappping. 
Jeff Goldblum zapping. Baboon turned 
inside out. Purple fingers. Excessive body 
hair. Huge maggot birthing. Ceiling 
walking. Ear rolls. Gratuitous fly puke. 
Arm wrestling Fu. Shotgun Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award Nominations for Jeff, as 
the scientist and fly, for saying "I must not 
know enough about the flesh; I'm gonna 
have to learn" and "I won't be just another 
tumorous bore, talking about his hair
falling out and his lost lymph nodes"; 
Geena, as the girlfriend, for sayin "You 
look bad, you smell bad, and you have 
these weird hairs growing out of you back"; 
and Big Dave, the director, for writin the 
line "I'm an insect who dreamed he was a 
man and loved it."
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
Communist Alert! Gene Buck, the 
Numero Uno drive-in-goer in the Monterey 
Peninsula and a personal buddy of mine, is 
being ATTACKED by the liberal West 
Coast wimpola press cause he's runnin a 
campaign to get the 17-mile Drive changed 
to "Bing Crosby Drive," in honor of Der 
Bingle. Gene's been mad as heck ever since
last year, when Kathryn Crosby decided the 
Pebble Beach gold tournament was "too 
commerical" so she took Bing's name off 
of it and gave it to these guys in North 
Carolina instead. Then she had her lawyer 
tell the Bing Crosby Historical Society 
Ins., of Tacoma that they can't use any 
pictures or likenesses of Bing without a
license approved by her. "I'm trying to give 
the Peninsula something Kathryn Crosby 
can't take away," said Gene Remember, 
without eternal vigilance, it can happen 
here. This Week on the Wayne Newton 
Tour: Allentown, Pa., and the famous 
Brown's Hotel in the Catskills. To discuss 
the meaning of life with Joe Bob, or to get
the "We are the Weird" newsletter, write 
Joe Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, TX 
75221.
DEAR JOE-BOB: I don't care what 
anyone says. I think very highly of you! I 
think you're the Burito-Supreme of life! 
Your top Banana in my Book! I work at 
Taco Bell and read your column on my 
Break.
Susan E. Goetz,
Kansas City
DEAR SUZE: I'll always think of you as 
a quivering frijole dinner.
DEAR J.B.: Ever since my "dear departed" 
departed, I have hoped to hear once again 
those magic words "Will you marry me?"  
But Joe Bob, I know what a fickle fellow 
you are, so when I read those words straight 
from your pen, I was suspicious. I am 
afraid you are just playing with my I 
emotions. Joe Bob, I am too vulnerable for | 
that. Why don't you just play with ME 
instead, and we'll forget the offer of ] 
matrimony.
Yours truly (This is a standard closing,  
which, as you know, doesn't have a THING 
to do with being "yours" or anybody else's 
and very little to do with genuineness. 
However, in YOUR case, I could make an 
exception. I WON'T, of course, but I 
COULD.)
DONNA WOLLAM,
TEMPE, AZ.
DEAR DONNA: Every month I ask 
about a hunderd girls to marry me, and all 
of em think I'm joking and so next year I'm 
goin in the Guinness Book of World 
Records as the guy that holds the world 
turn-down record. But in your case I sense 
something so totally phony that I think we 
might have a chance.
The $64,000 Activities Fe^Additional Reserve
The Student Senate Funding and Recognition Committee feels 
that there will be about $64,000 left over in additional reserve 
funds at the end of the 1986-87 fiscal year.
The committee has studied various alternatives for these funds, 
ranging from spending it entirely, to investing the entire amount.
Further discussion on what we, the students of Carnegie Mellon 
University, should do with this, OUR Activities Fee funds will be 
taking place at the Student Senate meeting on Tuesday, 
September 23,1986 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, at 7:00 p.m.
All interested students are welcome to voice their opinions on 
this subject.
Funded by the Student Activits Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage D3
Dead End Drive - In
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic
Speaking of cheap drugs, Dead End DriveIn is an attempt to show what happens 
when the Communists take over the world 
and keep everybody locked up inside a drivein where you have all the basic necessities: 
corny dogs, really loud Empty-V music, 
Arkansas Polio Wood, lots of spray paint, 
movies about exploding Australians, and 
your very own car to live in. It's in the 
1990's, and this guy named Crabs takes a 
foxy gM named Carmen to the drive-in, and 
once they get there they rip off their clothes 
and start makin the sign of the triple
snooted aardvark, and while they're doin 
that the cops come and "requisition" both 
rear wheels and so they become Numero 
192 and Numero 193 in Drive-In Dachau.
This is fine with dumb-as-a-box-of-rocks 
Carmen, who spends all day long eatin 
Hormel Chili and havin her hair raked into 
a bean sprout sandwich like Pat Benetar, 
but Crabs figures, hey, there's something 
NOT QUITE RIGHT here and so he starts 
plannin to escape. This is harder than it 
sounds, cause everybody keeps tryin to get 
him to go to the Ku Klux Klan meeting 
instead of workin on the engine of his 56 
candy-apple-red Chevy. Pretty soon about 
150 "Road Warrior" extras start makin fun 
of Crabs for being SUCH A WEENIE and 
refusing to pay Mel Gibson's fee to come 
waste the Commies.
What we got here is mildly perturbed 
Max Beyond Thunderdome. Four breasts. 
Ten dead bodies. Two motor vehicle chases, with three smash-ups, one three-ton-truck 
jump, two crash-and-bums. Aardvarking. 
Tree-trunk impaling. Australian-rules cricket-bat skull-smashing. Bad dangling ear
rings. Really bad shiny leather jackets. 
Really really bad leop&rd-skin blankets. 
Gratuitous banana fritters. Gratuitous boat 
people. Drive-in Academy Award nominat
ions for Ned Manning, as the crabby Crabs;
Natalie McCurry, world famous as the
1983 Miss Young International of Aus
tralia, who plays Carmen and utters the 
classic line "But I thought you wanted to 
be with ME"; and Peter Smalley, the 
screenwriter, for the line "How long till 
one of these zipheads tries to rape one of 
our women?"
last two years in my school paper (The 
Daily Texan), I feel the urge to go back to 
a drive-in. What should I see, and what 
should I drink? JOHN MACDOUGALL, 
AUSTIN TEXAS
DEAR JOHN: What you should see is the 
sign that says "Enter Here."
Carmen and Crabs demonstrate Australian drive-in going
Australia Fu. Two stars. Joe Bob says 
check it out.
DEAR JOE BOB: The first time I ever 
went to a drive-in movie was a disaster. My 
buddies and I went to see Bruce Lee's Enter 
the Dragon on a hot, muggy Houston 
night. We drank warm rum and Coke, got 
sick and popped my tires sneaking into the 
drive-in through the exit by running over 
those little daggers that stick out of the 
cement. After reading your reviews for the
DEAR JOE BOB: This is just a brief note 
to express my thanks for the unique and 
delightful columns you've written, and to 
call your attention to the plight of a 
number of your most devoted fans. I've 
faithfully sent my brother, Gary, copies of 
your columns for years, starting way back 
in the early days of your work in the DTH. 
He, in turn, has passed them along to the 
Stony Brook Science Fiction Forum, 
where, I understand, they'd been enshrined 
until recently. A disastrous fire has
demolished the entire library, however. 
Might you have an encouragin' word, or 
maybe just an autographed picture of 
Wanda Bodine to cheer this distant oupost 
of Joe Bobbery? Long live the Drive-in! 
RICH HALADA, ROWLETT, TEXAS
DEAR RICH: I know. I heard about it, 
how they think some of the Holy Rollers 
took it upon theirselves to bum down the 
science fiction collection at the State U. of 
New York at Stony Brook, includin' rare 
copies of The Wizard of Oz, a bunch of 
artwork, 7,000 books, a bunch of comic 
books and ALL MY COLUMNS.
Help these guys hang in there. Send some 
jack to "Committee to Restore the Forum," 
care of David Weingart, 31 E. 13th St., 
Huntigton Station, N.Y. 11746. They'll 
really predate it.
JOE BOB: I'm in GermanyWest 
Germany that is, about 20 kilometers from 
the Commie scum right across the border 
in Checkoslovakia. All my Army buddies 
love your column 'cause most army guys 
are really Drive In kinda people. Anyway 
we need help J.B. The women over here are 
nice and everything, but they don't 
shaveAT ALL. I just want to ask one 
favorsend the Dallas Cowboy 
Cheerleaders. I been told they're really into 
the USO thing.
"BIG AL," FOX,
PFC, AMBERG, WEST GERMANY
DEAR BIG AL: The lady that runs the 
Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders loves my 
column so much she had me banned from 
the Dallas Cowboy Weekly, but that's OK 
cause I know TWO of the cheerleaders 
personally ever since I started throwin DCC 
calendars into the audience at the beginning 
of each show, and they'll go ANYWHERE 
with ANYBODY. Even you, Al.
WANTED
Dancers, Comedians, 
Singers, Musicians, 
Actors, Specialty Acts 
and Etc...
OPEN AUDITIONS!!! 
Date: Saturday 
September 27 
Time: Starting at 
1 PM
Place: Scotland
Yard in 
Skibo
For more
Information call 
extension 4433!

---------------------------------------------------

Oct. 5 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven, Mozart,
Prokofiev and Respighi; Alicia de Larrocha, pianist.
Oct. 19 Adam Fischer conducts Berio, Bartk and Kodaly; 
Katia and Marielle Labeque, pianists.
Nov. 30 Charles Dutoit conducts Mozart, Liszt and 
Stravinsky; Hai-Kyung Suh, pianist.
Jan. 25 Michael Tilson Thomas conducts Sibelius and 
Rachmaninov; Cho-Liang Lin, violinist.
Feb. 8 Michael Lankester conducts Shubert,
Ellen Taaffe Zwilich and Tchaikovsky;
Marc-Andre Hamelin, pianist.
Feb. 22 David Zinman conducts Dvorak and Elgar;
Shlomo Mintz, violinist.
Mar. 15 Christoph Eschenbach conducts Schumann and 
Dvorak; Justus Frantz, pianist.
Concerts JBBSSk AH major credit cards
begin at 2:30 fvfSIll accepted. To orderTHE PITTSBURGH ,, /J4Avsymphony call (412) 392-4821
TAKETHEMUSICCURE.
7 Sunday 
Afternoon 
Concerts at 
Heinz Hall 
for only $28
Mozart Joins WeekendClass.
Just what is Weekend Class? 
Relax, it's not more school. 
It's a chance to enjoy the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at unbeliev
able student discounts. Mozart 
is just one of the music masters 
we've lined up this season 
to make Weekend Class a 
memorable experience.
Now, for $28 you can sub
scribe to 7 Sunday after
noon concerts hand 
picked to fit your 
Fall and Spring 
semesters. That's 
only $4.00 a 
concert.
For even more 
enjoyment, call 
392-4821 and ask 
about our 12-concert 
Sunday afternoon or 
Friday evening series 
for only $72, or 
24 Friday evening 
concerts for $96.
Pittsburgh Symphony...
continued from front page
troppo, stands for life. It was a gradual building, beginning with the strings and 
ending with the brass. The second 
movement Allegro con grazia is the rise 
and fall of love. The woodwinds played the melody against the strings and the end 
carried the mournful key of the Pathetique. The whirlwind, Allegro molto vivace that 
followed was predominately in the brass section and contained enormous energy on 
the parts of both musicians and Maazel. The abrupt end of this disillusionment 
section so entranced the audience that it 
actually brought spontaneous applause 
between movements.
The Finale: Adagio lamentoso possessed 
the same energy in much more more subdued music. The opening theme 
reappears here like an old friend. Maazel 
adds to the drama of this death sequence by bringing the orchestra to sudden rests only 
to let them continue with the same sorrow 
of the music. One by one each instrumental 
group retired until only the cellos and the
basses remained playing the tragic cords. It ends as it began, in darkness, and death was 
evident in the final notes. The audience was 
spellbound and there was no motion or sound. The applause began very tentatively but grew until there was a standing ovation 
and three curtain calls for the genius Maazel.
Pittsburgh Symphony principal cellist 
Anne Martindale Williams and pianist Irene Schreier will open The Pitt 
Concert Series with a recital on Tuesday, September 30 at 8:30 p.m. 
The recital will be at Frick Fine Arts Auditorium on the University of 
Pittsburgh campus. The program will include works by Schubert, Block, 
Barber, and Beethoven. Free tickets may be obtained by calling 624-4126.
For more information on this concert or other concerts on the Pitt Concert 
Series, call the Department of Music at 
.624-4126,__________________________
The Tartan wishes to thank Apple 
Computers for loaning a LaserWriter 
Plus. Without such a device the 
production of The Tartan would be 
virtually impossible.
Thanks,
The Tartan
Youve got a lot to say. Youve got talent but dont know how to show it off. You wish there was some place where you could.Dossier, the literary/design newspaper is the place.So write us up a story or poem, submit it to the Tartan/Dossier by September 29th and show us what youve got.You might just impress yourself.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage D5
17th Century Top-40 hits fill Over the Hills and Far Away
PITTSBURGH: The Renaissance and 
Baroque Society of Pittsburgh will open its 
1986-87 season on September 27 at 8:00 
pm. in Synod Hall as it presents The 
Baltimore Consort. The program, entitled 
"Over the Hills and Far Away," features 
both popular and art music of the late 16th 
and 17th centuries from England, Scotland, 
France and Italy. The songs and dances 
will include the popular "Greensleeves" as 
well as music from religious and court life.
Elizabethan theater musicians were the 
jazz artists of their day, and it is this 
tradition which The Baltimore Consort 
continues. In addition to playing extant 
arrangements of Elizabethan music, the 
Consort creates its own settings and 
harmonies, drawing on the melodies of 
16thand 17-century England, Scotland, 
France and Italy. They have studied the 
techniques of compositional practicesincluding virtuoso ornamentationto cre
ate these new arrangements.
Some of the tunes in this concert will be 
familiar to today's audience as those same 
melodies played by old-time bands and 
country fiddlers. The popularity of this 
music has endured from its beginnings in 
the Renaissance to the present day; listeners 
still find the toe-tapping tunes irresistable! 
The five instrumentalists play a colorful 
assortment: fiddle or treble viol, renaissance 
flute or recorder, lute, cittern, bandora, and 
bass viol, all suited to sophisticated court 
music as well as toe-tapping country 
dances. Soprano Custer La Rue has a voice 
particularly suited to the ballads on the 
program.
The Baltimore Consort is Ensemble-inResidence at the prestigious Walters Art 
Gallery in Baltimore, where it presents an 
annual concert series. Members of the 
group hold faculty positions at the Peabody 
Conservatory, University of Pennsylvania, 
Moravian College, Princeton University, 
National Music Camp at Interlochen, and 
Oberlin Baroque Performance Institute.
When The Baltimore Consort appeared at 
the Spoleto Festival, The Evening Post of 
Charleston, South Carolina, reported: "We 
knew from the very first seconds of music 
that we heardthe lovely clear voice of 
Custar La Rue singing an early 16th 
century song, accompanied softly, fittingly 
be the ensemblethat we were in for a 
musically moving concert, not just an 
historical curiosity." Said The New York 
Times: "The ensemble's sound is
distinguished by translucent clarity and a 
healthy sense of communion . . .
exuberance pervades all they play . . . 
[T]his concert . . . was a serene and 
beautiful way to spend a Sunday 
afternoon." Of the consort's particular 
reknown for its interpretation of the folk 
element, The Washington Post said: "The 
best popular music can stay fresh and vital 
for three centuries or more, as the 
Baltimore Consort demonstrated."
To celebrate the new concert season, the 
Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
invite the entire audience to enjoy authentic 
Renaissance treats at a reception following 
the concert. Shortbread ("Burrebrede") and 
Almond-Cardamon Cakes, gleaned from 
early printed sources, will highlight the 
menu.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society of 
Pittsburgh is the city's only organization
The Baltimore Consort will perform on September 27 in Oakland
devoted to the continued enjoyment of early 
music by sponsoring celebrated artists who 
share their talents using period instruments. 
Tickets for "Over the Hills and Far Away"
are available at the TIX booth or at the 
door. Ticket prices are $10.00 for adults 
$5.00 for students. For more information 
call (412) 682-7262.
FREE STUFF!!! Write for Diversions and get free stuff. Call \4215
-
________________________________________________________________________________
Jazz Benefit...
continued from front page
and Hollywood film composer.
Concert tickets are $18, $15, and $12.50 
at Kaufmann's, Le Ticket, and the Heinz 
Hall Box Office. For additonal ticket 
information call 281-5000.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
B. ANDREW JANOFF, M.D.
IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF HIS 
SQUIRREL HILL OFFICE 
FOR THE PRACTICE OF 
OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
Ultrasonography Aminocentesis 
Chorionic Villi Sampling  In-Vitro Fertilization 
Genetic Counseling
AT
1900 MURRAY AVENUE, SUITE 301
OFFICE HOURS BY APPOINTMENT TELEPHONE (412) 422-5000
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH I.D.
Qateway to London and 'Beyond
ITHACA COLLEGE : J. 
London Center
 SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM 
 ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT 
 BRITISH FACULTY
Learn about British and European 
cultures through courses in 
literature, history, business, music, 
sociology, communications, 
politics, and much more. Special 
program offered in Drama. 
Internships available to qualified 
students in international business 
social services, communications, 
political science, and economics.
Visits to the theatre, 
museums, galleries, 
schools, social and 
political institutions are 
an integral part of the 
curriculum
For further information
International Programs 
-SP Ithaca College Ithaca. New York 14850
#>A
>.
I
Benjamin lender Foundation for the Futherance of Jewish Education
Telephone: 521-3718
PRESIDENT
JACK H. LENDER
DIRECTOR
RABBI MFTR GOLDWASSER
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
RABBI EU ROTHMAN
BOARD OF ADVISORS
STANLEY GREENFIELD, Esq. 
Professor of Law, Duquesne University
DR. HERSHEL MARKOVITZ 
Professor of Mechanics and Polymer 
Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University
DR. JEROME ROSENBERG 
Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, 
University of Pittsburgh
JEWISH STUDENTS
We Invite You To Participate
in
THE FOLLOWING CLASS
 Think "Jewish": This course will give participants 
an intensive basis in the fundamentals of Jewish 
Philosophy. Topics will include: Does Judaism leave 
room for personal creativity? Does G-d actually 
concern Himself with what's happening with us? What 
is the mystique of the Jewish soul?
This class will be held Tuesday evenings from 7:30 - 
8:30 at Carnegie Mellon University, Skibo Hall. Call 
521-3718 or inquire at information desk for room 
number.
and
Thursday evenings, 6:30 - 7:30 at B'nai B'rith Hillel - 
Rm. 308
The Benjamin Otender foundation is worthing in cooperation with 
Bnai Brith Hillel.
4

---------------------------------------------------

OLWR ?W*WMiSwrmeRTAKBMYCARf/
IIOCOWiIOWKfT, PAP.
usami
/N atiVI
\l-U \ A \s ^M
BLOOM COUNTY Provided by SDC
vovnemm? \ trWHEW we
SmSffi' TO"72? wme.
by Berke Breathed
mete?/
BLOOM COUNTY
Miu3..,Tme'5 D prmM. imepcmpMYSZLF ACROSSme ITarrum.i so?
BLOOM COUNTY
oum /HOU! PIP BIUmeatroeTinto TH TueeoRm wmvouf/
\
tfs HiiIE
MHOWSHAf 
PNft. KWAUX, mtmoNOF BeCMNGfCtr INTRI6VS5 Me.V
ymfpoesSCRATCHING ATflbas imiwe you? poes ~EE BPTIheMONO? tf
!..ex...
BLOOM COUNTY
m>... tm?, we //eep muffle ftFATHR/SON Cm.
PAp.ym boy is NorMNoioeecoMeA STAR HALFBACK FOR THPeNVER BRONCOS. He 5, HOWeveR.bOtNOiv eecom D car.
UCC Man
msTRve tr's THAnHeReNOT  WAS AN 1 Vme// UNFORWNATB - MISCALCULATION...
mmyi V
'\
!
\x,I
am.
UBSoRBrrm WCiBE i
THINK.
by Berke Breathed
0fCL mcAT WAS HIPING SOMEWH&RE *A 7H6 memrzR SMOKING A ctomm...
\
I THINK OUR RNA (AOiecuLee weRe mep. AFRoip m 5UMC-Y TURNING INTO A CAT.\
lImma mveNS... WHAT'S HAfmitlfow&u?
by Berke Breathed
HOW
CAN  QUICK/
Heist? W:
by Berke Breathed
PAP?...ouo youHEAR MC ?
myJA6UARXJS IS ORBITINO PLOW.
IKNOIN, PAP, Burm'ReoN TO A NSWblueued iNeepKITTY UTWR
tn weBATHTUB...A
by Curt Vile & Robin Laura
How Xb You t^W aSuP6^Vo?He*T, U-i Sor-* 6ca-sc Left O/ee. Some <9ruPlP MucrtsMr. TuP FirstWittcotom-s 
PoWH Steps Coy Usrer
OHC *?M l>*reUK<EHr byhSa
SociM. fences \C Joe. ari CWeMloKiev, (A^c vJOH I^NovkS*-*#?
C*m s FogcAT TyC.W 3pts ..................... 1 v"~~
Inkspots
I
"Domineer 
this for i
WASHINGTON D.C. 
AUGUST IS.
/fa# 80/SwC (&oT A T>T OF A 
I TUITIONHeftJ
UHiveitsnY aivyko. Coy
AN OBVIOUS FKCJLITf. 
PICKIMS. CAN'T EVEN CAWIT/ OlU ANYMORE.
NOW, THEPESSTAOHtHw's VIK1 HCi-P, BM
(...soIT WILL B EASIER. TO
PBon ta&tx IN.,

---------------------------------------------------

You Are Hereby Nadini Sudd
Kurt Shaw
V/HESi we CfKf TKEM -pie' 
owr&cr, we *a> a Meb/uM SlTSb LiNiVEtZsrrY
vr
oka, IN ODe* TO <$ft 
VTD 7WE COWMLWttY MC^hrrs WQLH have" to COVETS AS STUD&SrS., amcL/iJ..
CAfrJH^ie HEL-L.ON 
CAN L/SE 50MC 
WS/DC HELP"
x'V'v/V
Cyh cav6m 03 -r^e gosx
^iTfi me ncoETCETfTSroEE
Gftjs MTmNoAQc&notJ ! 
Gala a*a//ust" abc&jov! 
Avjs agamsj Aaa27?o/j;
rpWdiI
\jdn Ae^w\C>rt^/(L,\
E/CU5E nig, 8of ip y<?UAe 6Edit oralTh ^A^xxyAN>/TMfW6 c renDo 7HAJ0OC0 gESULj"
/N ijoU To
UJOQ&I A0OUT AMyOAJe 
a&TftNG am ABoer/w/3AIWSf fQt&rmiD -
frCT TpT*ypIw&rto...
I*'jS ASAfcos-jflp&UieiO.
6tm Afliu$f gtenexxBiff and Mottyby Atalo & Tomatoe
WOW , THERE ARE SoMt 
H&RMa>L DRU6S Gol MG 
^RovjnD on* CAKPU5.
WELL,HELLO hAYRoNl, 
How AK6 ybu POiMG?
Aiu 'uuo Dr\/MBe ro 
l P\re\bkb *py *150 2GnS $ 
STRAIGHT WITHOUT WASUlMC,^ 
ONJC9. ^
A \\ [L'Mc>\\
WHOA' BAD ARID1.
v.----------- Jf.-. V
^7 F i, r> \ / UK
The Carnegie Space Mellon
WITH THE UKUVtSvT'f 
AV-WEKV Ih&VQt-VEO K SO
PCD3&CTS WWERE "fcQCfc 
r" gYdfgp psg r\Ti\K>G hst 
5PPCE \Kk T
WEU..T \5 Tavr TMp>T 
All the MKTot t>eP**TH03! 
T\C> \Ki THEifc.
Ova (Si R.SAROA V-voviEvee. _
"be. <n0yth Tv^mvcs v^e's
FoOfOrj okE t>e**feTrAENk*T 
DB5G G ^w.c lElIu 
Ti^NET VTS VV**fcS.
by Thurston W. Jeffries
HELLO,
uCIs wCsaItga,f
(NSTITOTE ?/

CMUtants
THE CONINEFmjWKire. WRT I.
by Translucia Baboon & Klutz Kaboom
nFthhhFShyQf \2*oisiUU \bl \/~iTFF?TEZn22L
{pma}
HB IS A mLOZOPHY/MATH WTO*] 
RECEMTr TRAHSFEtED TWM 
BRIG HAH YoN UNIVERSITY.
-------TT\
v&M'
ihhx left axa noms J TO WND A MORS _ ___.. , _ .__,__ |BCCIT/WaHe niSS^SFv
Jt C.H.U. Tb ATTfrjQ.1 ------------------------------
\ ' B8HE IS AlSO QiTE W5APPOJTE0 Ml H/Sf
HOUSING STATUS ITW77T =5^
8rrcH*t WE00 THE HWT 
SCEffc NDfTMEK/
Voyages of the Stellar Lemmingby Sam Pierce

---------------------------------------------------

September 23,1986The TartanPage D8
Burning the midnight 
oil may be necessary. 
Burning the 2:00 or 3:00 
or 4:00 AM oil is absurd. 
Especially when an HP calculator can get the 
answers you want  in time to get a good nights 
sleep.
For instance, our HP-15C Professional Scientific Calculator 
has more built-in advanced math and statistical power than any 
other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have 
even more potential.
PG12602
Thats because there are better than 2500 software packages 
available for them  more than for any other calculator.
Theres even a special plug-in software package (we call it the 
Advantage Module) thats designed to handle the specific problems 
an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work.
No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences 
widely regard HP calculators as the best you can get.
So check one out. Then, when your mother calls to ask if youre 
getting enough sleep, you wont have to lie.
By the way, if you want more information, just give us a call 
at 8OO-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. IFTIB HEWLETT
wHHM PACKARD
Provactive lyrics and images in Anderson1s concert flick
continued from front page
to the energy of Andersons latest 
pieces"Language Is A Virus," heard on 
college radio stations, and "Talk Normal," 
which Anderson performed on Saturday 
Night Live.
The film's complicated yet minimalistic 
imagery complements her music, using 
innovative lighting effects and amazing 
computer graphics to underline the mood of 
each piece. Everyone goes ape on "Talk 
Normal," when the backup singers don 
space-age leotards and Belew twists a 
rubberneck guitar.
Other instruments of Anderson's own 
design include a drum suit, where contact 
pads attached to various body parts produce 
the sounds of an electronic drum kit. Her 
famous tape bow violin plays a vocal 
sample of beat poet William S. Burroughs 
saying, "Listen to my heartbeat."
If Anderson seems at ease cavorting 
among her sonic experiments, it's because 
shes been doing it for a long time. Since 
the early '70's, Anderson has been 
constructing unusual instruments such as a 
table that plays music when you lean your
elbows on it and put your hands to your 
ears.
Anderson mixed poetry, stories, and 
music in her performances, gradually 
becoming a consummate artist. Her 1980 
single, "O Superman," peaked at number 
two on the British charts, giving her the 
impetus to complete United States, a seven 
hour, multi-media event about the 
peculiarities of contemporary America.
The music and lyrics were released in 
1984 as the five-record set United States 
Live, Anderson having earlier compiled 
excerpts from the event on her 1982 album, 
Big Science. In 1984, the album Mister 
Heartbreak explored denser textures with 
synthesizer and sampling effects and added 
Peter Gabriel and bassist Bill Laswell as 
collaborators.
The next logical step was to transfer the 
excitement of a live performance to film, 
and so Home of the Brave was bom, along 
with a soundtrack album featuring new 
music. Often compared to the Talking 
Heads' successful concert movie Stop 
Making Sense, Anderson's film comes off 
even better by not only being incredibly
Laurie Anderson stands in front of the symbolic binary digits
fun to watch, but also a humorous 
presentation of social commentary.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Gulton ran 
Home of the Brave for two weeks, and 
enough demand will hopefully bring it
back. A moviegoer commented that he was 
hesitant to see the film because he wasn't 
and "avant-garde hipster." However, an 
alternative lifestyle is not required to see 
Home of the Brave ; all you need is a sense 
of humor and an open mind.

---------------------------------------------------

NOW through October 29 . .
Carnegie Mellon
Drama wants You to
As.
0-3
^v\e^aVS
8-3
OeVbN k,
5cWu .
^iv\\v^b
The Studio Theatre (Behind CFA)
Week OneSeptember 22-24Joe Egg
Week TwoSeptember 29-0ctober 1Figaro
Week ThreeOctober 6-8The Seagull
Week FourOctober 13-15Tango
Week FiveOctober 20-22La Ronde
Week SixOctober 27-29Camino Real
Limited SeatingFree with CMU ID Card.
For Information Call 268-2407

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1986The TartanPage DIO
X
<
w
P
'1
*.r..
UUUUUUV--::;;.-
Futon SaleManufactured: Carlisle Mattress Factory 5116 Penn Ave. Pgh, PA 15224 Call 661-6499 (9am-4pm)Oriental Mattress: Lightweight, easily packed up for moving and storage. Perfect for apts, dorms, wherever space is limited.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
Easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 682-5050
Thanks to you... 
it works... 
for ALL OF US UnibedVfcy
Master Card, Visa accepted 
Call for appointment
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling r Student Development Center...................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.........................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection.............................................................................   854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid......................................... ........................................................281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
^Am CILL13i'tk F:- 0U HMznq 0TU -A(vf1znM

---------------------------------------------------

EventsRichard M. Cyert will have open office hours for students between 3 nm and 5 pm on Friday, September 26 in his office, 602 Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with the president should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to set up an
appointment.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library:Monday - Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday, 8 am - midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; Sunday, noon - 3 am. 
Engineering and Science Library: Monday - Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 pm; Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - midnight.
Mellon Institute Library:Monday - Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday and Sunday, closed. 
Audio-Visual Services: Monday -Thursday, 8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon -11 pm.
Salsamba. Pittsburgh's only Latin jazz quintet appears at 9 pm on September 26 and 27 at Myron's Lounge in the Ramada Inn Airport, 1412 Beers School Road. Admission is free. For more information call 264-8950.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the Graduate School of Industrial Administration Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more information call 681-3181.
Tuesday
Movies
The Story of Adele H., starring Isabelle Adjani. An unusual love story about Victor Hugo's daughter and her unrequited love for a military man. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Chemical Engineering Seminar.Dr. George E. Keller n, Union Carbide Corporation, speaks on "Scaledown of Separation Processes: A New Direction for Innovation" at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and doughnuts are served at 10:45 am in the Conference Room, DH 1102.
Department of Chemistry Colloquium. Dr. Donald H. Aue, University of California, Santa Barbara, speaks on "Detection of Intermediates in Cycloaddition Reactions" at 4 pm in MI Conference Room. Coffee and doughnuts are served at 3:30 pm.
Wednesday
Movies
Children of Paradise, starring JeanLouis Barrault, Arletty and Pierre Brasseur. A one-of-a-kind film masterpiece about actors, mimes, lovers and crooks in Paris.The celebrated mime sequence in the film is worth the price of admission. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm. Admission $2.95.
Half Life. The story begins when the U.S. detonates its first hydrogen bomb on Bikini Atoll. O'Rourke,
writer and director, builds a case in which the inhabitants were used as atomic guinea pigs. Sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers at 6:30 pm and 8:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. Brendan Galvin, poetry, presents his work at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Workshops
How to Make the Most of Your Summer. Find answers to questions like: How do I look for a summer job? What are some of the avenues I should pursue? How do I find out what's "out there"? And Who do I market myself to? at 11:30 in Skibo room 12.
Thursday
Movies
Nosferatu, starring Klaus Kinski, Isabelle Adjani and Bruno Ganz. Very fine remake of the F.W. Mamau classic of the '20s about vampires and, of course, Dracula. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Half Life. The story begins when the U.S. detonates its first hydrogen bomb on Bikini Atoll. O'Rourke, writer and director, builds a case in which the inhabitants were used as atomic guinea pigs. Sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers at 6:30 pm and 8:30 pm, at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown.
Gone With The Wind, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 7:30 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. Bruce Zetter, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Boston, speaks on "Mechanisms of Organ-Specific Tumor Metastasis" at 12:30 pm in DH 1102. A light lunch is served at noon prior to the seminar and a questionand-answer session follows.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off the ground by learning some basic guidelines. See examples and conduct a resume critique as if you were the personnel officer at 11:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Interviewing Skills. Calm anxieties by learning about the format of a screening interview and how to prepare for it at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Friday
Movies
Ran, starring Tatsuya Nakadai. Excellent adaptation of Shakespeare's "King Lear," as father gives his land and his power to his three sons with tragic results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Half Life. The story begins when the U.S. detonates its first hydrogen bomb on Bikini Atoll. O'Rourke, writer and director, builds a case in which the inhabitants were used as
atomic guinea pigs. Sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers at 6:30 pm and 8:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown.
The Bostonians, starring Vanessa Redgrave and Christopher Reeve. In this beautifully realized version of the Henry James novel, set in a repressive Victorian era, Redgrave plays a determined suffragette whose spirited nature wins the heart of a society girl and the ire of her conservative and traditional Southern cousin. Carnegie Institute at 8 pm. Admission $3.00.
The Great Escape, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 9 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept, of Chemistry Colloquium. Dr. John Brauman, Stanford University, speaks on "Gas Phase Ionic Nucleophilic Substitutions at Saturated and Unsaturated Carbon in the Gas Phase" at 4 pm in MI Conference Room. Coffee and doughnuts are served at 3:30 pm.
Saturday
Movies
Ginger and Fred, starring Marcello Mastroianni and Giulietta Masina. Acting highlights this latest Fellini film about an old dance team that is reunited on TV. The film becomes one long satire on the television industry. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9:15 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Half Life. The story begins when the U.S. detonates its first hydrogen bomb on Bikini Atoll. O'Rourke, writer and director, builds a case in which the inhabitants were used as atomic guinea pigs. Sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm, at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown.
Kiss of the Spider Woman, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
Sunday
Movies
Great Expectations, starring John Mills and Valerie Hobson. Excellent performances in this fine adaptation of Dickens novel about a benefactor who helps a poor orphan boy. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Half Life. The story begins when the U.S. detonates its first hydrogen bomb on Bikini Atoll. O'Rourke, writer and director, builds a case in which the inhabitants were used as atomic guinea pigs. Sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers at 6 Dm and 8 pm at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown.
Europe in Film Series: Bread and Chocolate, starring Anna Magnani. A black comedy about the life and struggles of an Italian guestworker in contemporary Switzerland. A mordant view of north and south in conflict. Adamson Wing, BH at 3 pm. Admission is free.
Union City, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
The Y Music Society of the Jewish Community Center presents George Marsh, Violinist, Bach International Competition winner, at 8 pm. For ticket information call the Y Music Society at 521-8099. Proceeds from this concert will benefit the American Civil Liberties Union.
Monday
Workshops
Graduate Admissions Workshop. If graduate or professional school is a consideration in your future, take advantage of this resource while at Carnegie Mellon. Learn tips on locating programs, finding dollars and sorting through application procedures at 11:30 am in Skibo room 12.
Career Decision Making SeriesJunior and Senior Section. A foursession seminar designed to help you assess your interests and abilities, explore current career interests as well as new ideas and form goals and strategies at 3:30 pm in Skibo room 112. Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career Services, x2064.
Classifieds
Word Processing by
professional typistdiscount to college studentswill pick up and deliver24 hour answwering centercall 653-2426.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAIDfor remailing letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for envelope for information/application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203.
PLAN YOU SPRING AND 
CHRISTMAS BREAKS NOW!Florida vacation certificates include hotel/condo accommodations for two adultsonly $100-$ 120. Good until 1988. Bahamas and Jamaica also available. Call 441-7934.
ALLEGHENY
WOMEN'S
CENTER
an out patient 
medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep 
or awake
 Morning After 
Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
Allegheny 
Womens 
Center____


---------------------------------------------------

Top Technical, Marketing, 
and Business Development 
Graduates
Did you distinguish yourself here ? 
If so, then come to Oracle Corporation and do it again !
If you're in the top 10% of your graduating class and have academic credentials you can brag 
about, i. e. high school valedictorian, salutatorian, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi or other well 
respected honor societies, National Merit winner, etc., then we would like to talk to you about 
joining the best.
Oracle Corporation is a very successful, very fast-growing company which has established its 
place in the software industry with its premier relational database product, ORACLE.
ORACLE is a SGL-based relational DBMS that includes a set of integrated application 
development and decision support tools.
Oracle Corporation will give you:
* Fascinating and challenging work. We need to staff these projects: distributed database, interactive graphics, and 
networking of hetrogeneous machines, to name a few. Work on a variety of systems, including new IBM products,
Apollos, Suns, MicroVAXes, and many PCs, including the IBM RT/PC.
* A superior work environment. Oracle headquarters is a beautiful new building in the rolling hills of Northern California, 
with a view of San Francisco Bay. We're within 20 minutes of San Francisco, 40 minutes of the Pacific, and Lake Tahoe 
is 3 1/2 hours away.
We offer exceptional salaries to exceptionally gifted, exceptionally disciplined workers. Every Oracle employee has a 
piece of equity in the company, and we provide complete medical/dental/life coverage. You can work the flexible hours that 
make you the most productive.
* A superb group of peers. Our development staff is made up of the smartest people we can find from the finest schools in the 
country.
* A sign-on bonus. If you meet the Oracle standard you may be eligible to receive a one-time bonus equal to 10% of your 
starting salary at Oracle.
I am looking for people to work in all of our divisions : Development, OEM, Field Sales and Support,Corporate Support, 
Consulting and International Divisions. If you have interest in any of these areas, please sign up for an interview or call. 
We want very much to share our success with the best.
Lairy Lynn
(415) 598-8000 or 598-8183
20 Davis Drive, Belmont, California 94002
