$
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53  NUMBER 21 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 1960
Jan Notopoulos
Co-EditorBill Pence
Co-Editor
Mike Balsam
Business Manager
Notopoulos & Pence 
New Tartan Editors; 
^Balsam, Bus. Manager
The next issue of the Carnegie Tartan will be published 
by the 1960-61 editors aud staff.
Retiring with this issue, Jeremiah Sullivan is turning the 
Tartan editorial reins oVer to Co-Editors Jan Notopoulos and 
Bill Pence. Both Jan and Bill are^----------------------------------------------------------------
well known on campus and have 
contributed much already to the 
Tartan. Mike Balsam, already 
|kinctioning in his new position for 
Ihe "past three issues, will be the 
1960-61 business manager.
Jan Notopoulos 
Jan Notopoulos, a junior psy
chology major from Sewickley, 
Pa. is beginning her fourth year 
as a Tartan regular, having serv
ed in the past as a reporter, As
sistant News Editor and as News 
Editor during this past year. She 
has also been prominent in other 
^lampus activities, serving this past 
year as President of Womans 
Dormitory Council and on the Ex
ecutive Committee of Student 
Congress. She is also Tri-Delt Vice 
President and a member of the 
Scotch n Soda Board.
Bill Pence 
Bill Pence, a junior in printing 
management, (and variations 
thereof) is beginning his second 
year as a Tartan staff member 
^even though his name has never 
appeared on the masthead. He has 
been the drama editor and hds 
written from underneath the my
sterious cloak of George B. Spelvin. Active in many organizations. 
Bill has primarily devoted himself 
to entertainment in this area. He 
is co-producer of Scotch n Soda, 
president of Film Arts Society, 
and assistant publicity director of 
the Playhouse.
3> Mike Balsam
Mike Balsam, Business Man
ager, has been active on theTartan 
staff since his freshman days. 
Mike is a member of Tau Delta 
Phi Fraternity and a junior mech
anical engineering major from 
Scarsdale, N.Y. In the past he has 
served the Tartan business staff 
as Advertising Manager and last
Campus Chest 
Returns
All those who will have 
Campus Chest contribution 
envelopes are asked to re
turn them to Dr. Sticks office 
as soon as possible.
year as Assistant -Business Man
ager. In addition to his campus 
capers, Mike is a flying eftthusiast 
and a summer-time beat captain.
Other staff officers for the com
ing year are: Staff Editor, Mary 
Ann Melton; News Editor, Phil 
James; Assistant News Editor, 
Dave Pearson; Feature Editor, 
George Logan; Sports Editor, Bob 
Miller; Circulation Manager, Pete 
Kost; Copy Editor, Sally Ganong; 
Secretary, Patti Michael; Assistant 
Business Manager, Joe Yevich; 
Advertising Manager, Myles Hol
lander; and Photography Editor, 
Alan Kanogsberg. 
Seven Vie For 
Carnival Queen
At call day on May 6, 1960 Dr. 
Warner will crown one of the 
following senior girls Queen of 
Techs Spring Carnival. The queen 
and her two attendants will be 
chosen by the male population of 
the campus on Friday, April 29 
between 11:30 and 1:30. The three 
finalists will be announced on the 
following day but no one will 
know who is Queen until call day.
The Tri-Delts have nominated 
Fran Teviotdale for Carnival 
Queen. Fran is a biology major 
from Pasadena, California. She is 
a past vice-pi'esident of her so 
rority and a V.P. of the dorm 
council. She is interested in swim
ming and is a past member of 
Tarquans.
Alpha Epsilon Phi
Nancy Sloan, an English major 
from Pittsburgh, has been nomi
nated by Alpha Epsilon Phi. She 
was president of Alpha Epsilon 
Phi for two years, a Scotch n 
Soda dancer, as well as a cheer
leader.
Chi Omega has chosen Pat Cun
ningham as its Carnival Queen 
candidate. Pat, whose home is in 
Pittsburgh, is majoring in physical 
education. She is active in her 
sorority and has served as its so
cial chairman.
Joanne Cronin is Kappa Alpha 
[continued on page 8]
The 1960 Thistle 
Promises To Be An 
Outstanding Book
Time for buying a copy of the 
1950 Thistle is running out, so 
youd better place your order for 
a yearbook before the sales cam
paign closes on Friday, April 29.
Sales representatives may be 
found on every floor of the dorms, 
in all the fraternity h&uses, and 
in Webb Hall during the lunch 
hour on Tuesdays, and Thursdays. 
Order blanks have been printed 
in recent issues of the Tartan and 
in this. one and order envelopes 
have been placed at convenient 
locations throughout the campus. 
The price will remain at six dol
lars.
Largest
*The 1960 Thistle will be the 
largest in recent years, extending 
to more than three hundred pages. 
In addition to the regular features 
which have given the most com
plete coverage possible, there will 
be a special section devoted to 
the changing fact of the Tech 
campus. A new approach to year
book design has been utilized so 
that the Thistle will present a 
striking appearance in comparison 
to other college annuals and will 
display its own contents to the 
best advantage. Production has 
been progressing steadily toward 
completion of a yearbook which 
Tech will be proud to sponsor and 
you will be proud to own.
Cwens Tap 
22 On Sunday 
For 1961
The Eta cnapter of Cwens 
held tapping ceremonies on Sun
day, April 10, at the Union. The 
following girls have been chosen 
as Cwens for 1960-1961: Carla 
Blank, Lacretia Bowdein, Gerry 
Carlin, Joanne Carson, Barbara 
Dowell, Donna Flynt, Sue Force, 
Sara Harris, Linda Horstman, 
Nancy Hurlston, Julie Ann Jack
son; Sandra Lancaster, Janet Lilliih, Fran Mazur, Jean - Presnar, 
Toni Sams, Jane Scott, Patricia 
Snider, Polly Speiglman, Dianne 
Thomas, Alice Werboff, Judy Wil
liams.
Mrs. Anne Louise Hayes, Cwens 
advisor for next year and Miss 
Ruth Cochran, this years advisor, 
were named Honorary Cwens.
Congress Changing 
Its Judicial System
The most important business of the year came before 
Student Congress at its last meeting. An amendment sub
mitted by the Constitution Committee would revamp the 
judicial system of the school. ?------------------------------------------------*
Proposed is the consolidation of 
the presently autonomous and in
dependent courts of CFP, PanHell, Mens and Womens Dorm 
Council, and the Student Govern
ment into an integrated judicial 
system to co-operate with the Ad
ministrations Discipline Commit
tee in handling charges of student 
misconduct.
Present System 
The present unorganized dis
ciplinary system is analogous to 
common law  it depends largely 
upon precedent. The proposed sys
tem codifies all the tacit assump
tions underlying the present set
up and allows for, through unifi
cation, greater student participa
tion in their own disciplinary 
problems. Briefly, the new amend
ment provides for a co-operative 
procedure between the student 
body and the administration for 
allocation of jurisdiction in cases 
coming to the attention of either 
group.
The present so-called Supreme 
Court of the government would 
be supplanted by a Student Court 
to have original jurisdiction only. 
Appeals and reviews cf dicisions 
of any of the five courts shall be 
handled by a Court of Appeals 
and by the Discipline Committee, 
the appelate court consisting of 
justices elected from each of the 
courts of original jurisdiction.
Details
Student Congress representa
tives and observers are urged to 
familiarize themselves with the 
details of the proposed amend
ment and to attend the next meet
ing on April 20. Should the quo
rum for a constitutional change 
fail to be achieved, a special meet
ing before elections might be nec
essary. The April 20 meeting of 
the Student Congress could af
fect every day student. Repre
sentatives owe it to their constitu
ents to attend and to vote intelli
gently.
The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra 
To Play At Spring Carnival
In the tradition of having the best bands the world has 
to offer, the music of the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra starring 
Warren Covington will be featured at the 1960 Spring Car
nival Dance. ?--------------------------------------------------
extate together with top agent 
Willard Alexander in order to pre
serve the Tommy Dorsey Orches
tra. The demand for the music of 
/Pommy Dorsey has never waned 
with his passing. And so the 
search for an artist, a successor if 
you like, began. The hand of prov
idence provided a natural in 
the personage of Warren Coving
ton. _
The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra 
starring Warren Covington means, 
for Tech students, that the music 
of TD lives on!
Warren Covington
Directing and featured with 
Tommy Dorsey Orchestra at 
Spring Carnival.
Like most great artists, Tommy 
Dorsey left behind him a legacy 
for the world consisting of a treas
ury of memorable music which 
has been a part of all our lives. 
For two decades the man with the 
sweet trombone was one of the 
nations foremost band leaders and 
a dominant figure in the music 
world.
Dorsey Saga
Many of the greatest bandlead
ers and vocalists of today are 
graduates of the Tommy Dorsey 
Orchestra. And the saga of this 
fabulous Dorsey includes over 300 
recordings with total sales ex
ceeding seventy million  a rec
ord unequalled in show business 
industry. His most famous disc 
was, perhaps, his theme, Im 
Getting Sentimental Over You. 
Demand
It was not pure sentiment, how
ever, which brought the Dorsey
Fraternities Pick 
Varied Carnival 
Booth Themes
The themes for the 1980 Spring 
Carnival Booths have been an
nounced by the Spring Carnival 
Committee. The following themes 
have been chosen by the fraterni
ties:
ATO  Peanuts, involving 
Lucy and Schroeder; BTP  
Antony and Cleopatra in the 
old theme Duck a Beta; BSR  
Rapunzel and the Prince; DTD 
 The Kinsey Report as a 
Famous Love Story; DU  An 
Electromagnetic Hopscotch game 
called Leaps and Bounds; KS  
Diamonds are a Girls Best 
Friend; PKT  The Sadie Haw
kins Race from Lil Abner and 
Daisie Mae; PKA  Tarzan and 
Jane; SN  the famous love 
story of Frankie and Johnny; 
TDP  Annie's famous saying 
You Cant Get A Man With A 
Gun; TX  Martha and Cor
tez.
*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 13, 1960
Kling Appointed 
Coordinator of 
Instep Program
Blair B. Kling has been ap
pointed Coordinator of Program 
IN STEP (Indian Steel Training 
and Educational Program) at Car
negie Tech.
In his new position, Mr. Kling 
will be responsible for guiding the 
Carnegie Tech program as well as 
assisting Mr. Stephen Blickenstaflf, Director of the national pro
gram. IN STEPs central admin
istrative headquarters is at Car
negie.
Mr. Kling was born in Chicago, 
111., but spent most of his life in 
Long Beach, California. He at
tended Polytechnic High School in 
Long Beach, and upon graduation 
enrolled at U.C.L.A. As an un
dergraduate, he also attended Syr
acuse University and the Univer
sity of California at Berkeley, re
ceiving his BA. degree from that 
institution in 1950. Following 
graduation, he served for three 
years in the United States Army 
as a technical writer.
Upon being dischaged from the 
service, Mr. Kling returned to the 
Univei'sity of California and did 
graduate study in Indian history, 
receiving his M.A. degree in 1955. 
He then spent nine months in In
dia on a Fulbright Fellowship do
ing research for his doctoral thesis 
and w'ill receive his Ph.D. degree 
in history from the University of 
Pennsylvania in June of this year.
Hamerschlag Hall 
To Be Completed 
For September
By David C. Pearson
Hamerschlag Hall, the yet un
finished undergraduate mens dor
mitory behind McGill Hall, is ex
pected to solve the problems nowplaguing the Mens Housing pro
gram.
The facilities of Hamerschlag 
will have to overcome the 
already acute housing shortage 
evidenced by the large number of 
off-campus residents, as well as 
the further complications which 
will arise with the demolition of 
the Forbes Street dormitories 
this summer. Accordingly, the 
new dorm is expected to be com
pleted in time for 173 new resi
dents next Fall.
Architecture
Architecturally, Hamer schlag 
Hall will certainly complement the 
already existing structures. The 
unusual downhill site chosen has 
given rise to an interesting de
sign. Hamerschlag Hall will' be 
constructed in the form of an 
"H, the crossbar being a onestory glassed-in recreation room 
with complete party and social 
facilities.
CARNEGIE TECH 
WILL SOON BE
tfittneibC&g
SAM ROSS 
TUXEDOS
124 Oakland Ave.
Mu 2-7310
VO Heart of Oakland
Blue and Black 
T uxedos 
White Dinner Jackets
Student Discount
G1 VE T O
CAMPOS 
CHEST
Our menu includes Caffee Ex
presses Parfaits, Baklava and 
other Fine Pastries, Fancy 
Salads and Sandwiches. Res
ervations may be made for 
afternoon parties. The Art 
Gallery downstairs offers our 
patrons an opportunity to 
view the work of outstanding 
Pittsburgh artists in monthly 
one-man and group exhibi
tions. __
4620 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
MUseum 2-7784
DARLINGTON RD. NEAR MURRAY
Graduates or Upperclassmen
Why Not Have a Home Hear Tech!'
Get four to six of your own friends and rent a home. 
13 rooms  3 baths  gas furnace. $182.50.' Heat, utili
ties extra.
For Appointment - HA 1-3754
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING 
............... 4609 FORBES AVE. (near Craig St.)WELCOME
STUDENTSMUseum 1-1288
Order Your Thistle Now!
( ) Please reserve a copy of the 1960 Thistle for me.
I have enclosed my check for $6.
( ) Mail my yearbook to the address below. I have
added 50c for mailing charges.
Name ................................................................................
Address .......................................................................... 
Send this order blank with your check to:
THE THISTLE, Box 122, C1T, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
OPENS UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Larry Russo Shoe Repair
420 SOUTH CRAIG at FORBES
MU 2-8459 FOR SERVICE
Shoe Shines Hat Cleaning Orthopedic Work 
COMPLETE LINE OF POLISHES AND LACES 
We Take Pride In Satisfying You
------- THE MANAGEMENT
On CampuswithMKfihulman
(Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
COLLEGE: THE FOE OF EDUCATION
In your quest for a college degree, are you becoming a narrow 
specialist, or are you being educated in the broad, classical 
sense of the word? This question is being asked today by many 
serious peopleincluding my barber, my podiatrist, and my 
little dog Spotand it would be well to seek an answer.
Let us examine our souls. Are we becoming experts only in 
the confined area of our majors, or does our knowledge range 
far and wide? Do we, for example, know who fought in tjie 
battle of Salamis, or Kants epistemology, or Plancks constant, 
or the voyage of the Beagle, or Palestrina-s cantatas, or what 
Wordsworth was doing ten miles above Tintern Abbey?
If we do not, we are turning, alas, into specialists. What, 
then, can we do to escape this strait jacket, to broaden our 
vistas, lengthen our horizons, to become, in short, educated?
Well sir, the first thing we must do is throw7 away our curricula. 
Tomorrow7, instead of going to the same old classes, let us try 
something new. Let us think of college, not as a rigid discipline, 
but as a kind of vast smorgasbord, with all kinds of tempting 
intellectual tidbits to sample and savor. Let us dive in. Let 
our pent-up appetites roam and snatch where they will.
let $ fwmut itf als.
We will start the day with a stimulating seminar in Hittite 
artifacts. Then we will go over to marine biology and spend a 
happy hour with the mollusks. Then we will open our pores by 
drilling with the ROTC for a spell. Then well go over to journal
ism and scramble a font of Bodoni. Then well go to the medical 
school and palpate a few spleens. Then well go to homo 
economics and have lunch.
And between classes well smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. This, 
let me emphasize, is not an added fillip to the broadening of our 
education; it is an essential. To learn to live richly and well is 
an important part of education, and Marl boros are an important 
part of living richly and well. Do you think flavor went out 
when filters came in? Well, ha-ha, the joke is on you. Marlboro, 
with its Selectrate filter, delivers flavor in fulf measure, flavor 
without stint or compromise, flavor that wrinkled care derides, 
flavor holding both its sides. This triumph of the tobacconists 
art comes to you in soft pack or flip-top box and can be lighted 
with match, lighter, candle, Welsbach mantle, or by rubbing 
two small Indians together.
When we have embarked on this new regimenor, more ac
curately, lack of regimenwe will soon be studded with culture 
like a ham with cloves. When strangers accost us on the street 
and say, "What was Wordsworth doing ten miles above Tintern 
Abbey? we will no longer slink away in silent abashment. We 
will reply loud and clear:
As any truly educated person .nows, Wordsworth, Shelley, 
and Keats used to go the Widdicoinbe Fair every year for the 
poetry-writing contests and three-legged races, both of which 
they enjoyed, wildly. Well sir, imagine their chagrin when they 
arrived at the Fair in 1776 and learned that Oliver Cromwell, 
jittery because Guy Fawkes had just invented the spinning 
jenny, had canceled all public gatherings, including the Widdicombe Fair and Liverpool. Shelley was so upset that he 
drowned himself in the Bay of Naples, Keats went to Ixmdon 
and became Samuel Johnson, and Wordsworth ran blindly into 
the forest until he collapsed in a heap ten miles above Tintern 
Abbey. There he lay for several years, sobbing and kicking his 
little fat legs. At length, peace returned to him. He composed 
himself and, noticing for the first time the beauty of the forest 
around him, he wrote Joyce Kilmers immortal Trees .. . And 
that, smartypants, is what Wordsworth was doing ten miles 
above Tintern Abbey. c io m* shuimaa
* * 
Poets and peasants alike know that if you like mildness but 
you dont like filters, you cant do better than Marlborg$ 
companion cigarettePhilip Morris.
I
V)
O
O

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 13, 1960CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
COMPUTERS, CAREERS and YOU... 
after you join Western Electric
Interested in computers, computer technol
ogy and applications? Then you should inves
tigate Western Electric as a place to build ' 
your career. Telephony today is built around 
computers. The telephone cross-bar switch is 
basically a computer. Electronic switching 
gear uses computer principles.
At its new engineering research center and 
at most of its 25 manufacturing locations, 
Western is relying more and more on com
puters in doing its main job as manufacturing 
and supply unit for the Bell Telephone System.
In its other major field  Defense Communi. 
cations and Missile systems  the use of com
puters and computer technology is widespread.
Youll discover quickly that opportunities 
with Western Electric are promising indeed. 
Here company growth stands on a solid base, 
and your own grow th, too. We estimate that 
engineers will find 8,000 supervisory jobs open
to them in the next ten years. There w ill bo 
corresponding opportunities for career build
ing within research and engineering. Progress 
is as rapid as your own individual skills permit. 
And Western Electric maintains both full-time 
all-expenses-paid graduate engineering train
ing and tuition refund plans to help you move 
ahead in your chosen field.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, indus
trial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as in th# 
physical sciences. For more information get your copy 
of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your 
Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Doom 
200E, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New 
York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electiic 
interview when the Bell System team visits your campus.
Western Electric^
LUME5U3ENBMR UM2 1EWWBDEMB S5 BLA B3E 1D1AL
Manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale Pa.- Burlington i 
Kreensboro and Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Lincoln and Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City Mo  Columbus CA1 
Oklahoma City, Okla.; Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J.; Teletype Corp., Skokie, III and Little Rock, Ark. Also W  
distribution centers in 32 cities, installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, M. Y.
Dont just sit there! 
You'll enjoy todays copy of this publication
^ much more if you'll get up right now and get 
yourself an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. 
(Naturally, we'd be happier, too!)
BE REALLY REFRESHED
JanNNotp ulpts BuNinsPNe nc Mit knmBWknoB knrCBle Y,
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
. 5732 Central Ave. HI -70U
Fifty Eight Evening Students 
To Graduate This Spring
A total of 58 evening students are candidates to receive Bachelor of Science Degrees 
this spring. Recognition of the following engineering graduates will be made at the annual 
Evening Students Banquet on May 7.
?--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
,
CARMEGlE-vi/ .#)
// iV/ / Jr!
AUJTV
S-------
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology Editor....................................................................Mary Alice Perersou
Evening Council Elects 
Officers For 1960-61
Chemical
Thomas Samuel DeFail, 
Robert Paul Hoffman, John 
James lEliott, John Frederick 
Kunz, Jr., Wm. W. Hague, Jr. 
Basil M. Ponchel, Wm. C. 
Harrold, John Robert Short.
Civil
Matthew J. Dorn, Paul Ed
ward Reola, Morris L. McPhail.
Electrical
Clifford W. Allen, Joseph 
??. Matsey, Adam Paul Blazeck, Gerald A. Mullen, Paul 
F. Johns, Wm. J. Peterson, Jr., 
Jean Eudes LaPlace.
Mechanical
Thomas Gordon, James F. 
Phillips, Jr., Charles E. N. 
Holden, William Segalavich, 
Anthony J. Miscoe, Harry 
George Solbach, Jr., David 
Elmer Moser, James Herbert 
Valentine, Bernard B. F. Mul&an, Joseph J. Wilks, Jr., Jo
seph Stephan Oblak, Charles 
B. Wolf.
Metallurgical
Frederick D. Delve, Mario 
D. Otta^iani, David V. Evans, 
Edward Allen Proudfoot, 
Doyle Albert Harp.
In addition to the evening stu
dents to receive B. S. degrees in 
Chemistry, Electrical, Civil, Me
chanical and Metallurgical proe^fcms, twenty-three evening stu
dents will receive B. S. degrees in 
Industrial Management and will 
also receive recognition.
Of the twenty-three students, 
George Charles Dreistadt com
pleted the full nine-year program. 
In addition Michael Derkach will 
receive a B.S. degree in Manage
ment Engineering which is pres
ently known as Industrial Management.
Eight of the evening students 
receiving degrees in Industrial 
Management have previously 
earned degrees at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. They are:
Lee R. Cunningham, James 
H. McCartney Lawrence. L. 
Flaugher, William P. Rogers 
James H. Franz, Jerome A. 
Steiner, Lawrence P. Keelan, 
John William Strohm.
Other universities represented 
by the Industrial Management po
tential graduates are as follows: 
Ed C. Dwyer, University of 
Pittsburgh; C. G. Hoover, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh; Donald 
A. Marshall, University of 
Pittsburgh; Joseph F. Onofrey, 
University of Pittsburgh; Fred 
University; Thomas A. Schott,
J. Pope, Pennsylvania State 
Pennsylvania State Univer
sity; John Bernard Shaw, 
Pennsylvania State Univer
sity; Norman Peter Wolff, 
Pennsylvania State Univer
sity; Edwin Guenther, Jr., The 
Citadel, Mass. Inst, of Tech. 
(M. S.); Roger Ernest John
son, Tufts College; John 
Stewart Murray, Yale; U. S. 
Merchant Marine Academy; 
Robert Seid, Oregon State 
College; Charles Henry Condracek, Iowa State College. 
Other potential graduates who 
have earned dergees previously 
are:
Thomas S. DeFail, St. Vin
cent College; Univ. of Notre 
Dame (M. S.); John-J. Elliott, 
Univ. of Buffalo; Wm. W. 
Hague, Jr., Washington & Jef
ferson; Morris L. McPhail, U.
S. Merchant Marine; Joseph
E. Matsey, Carnegie Institute 
^of Technology; Gerald A. 
Mullen, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology; Wm. J. Peterson, 
Jr., Carnegie Institute of 
Technology; Thomas Gordon, 
Pennsylvania State Univer
sity; Charles E. N. Holden, 
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy; Harry G. Solbach, Jr., 
U. S. Naval Academy, David 
V: Evans, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology; Doyle A. Harp,
Pennsylvania State Univer
sity; Mario D. Ottaviani,
Washington and Jefferson; 
Edward A. Proudfoot, Slip
pery Rock State Teachers 
College.
AFTER 8 MONTHS,
YOU WILL SOON SEE
bpthefdks
At the April meeting of Even
ing Student Council new officers 
were elected for the. year 1960- 
1961 as follows:
President, Andrew Oravetz; 
Vice President, James Morrisard; 
Secretary, Shirley Kreidwise; 
Treasurer, John Ackerman.
Appointments of duties neces
sary in the performance of Coun
cil activities will be made by the 
new president, Andrew Oravetz, 
at a later date. Council assigned 
the duties of Parliamentarian to 
the responsibilities of the Advisor.
Banquet Plans 
In addition to the election of of
ficers plans were discussed for the 
Evening Students Banquet of 
May 7 at Colonial Manor. Chair
man of the Banquet, James Mor
risard, reported that numerous 
gifts have been received to be 
used as door prizes at the banquet. 
Gifts received to date include a 
transistor radio, slide rules, me
chanical pencils, Reymers Blend, 
Heinz Gift Assortment, lettering 
sets, a $100 gift certificate from 
Arthur Murray Studios, and pens. 
The menu for the banquet includes 
fruit shrub, mixed green salad, 
chicken or swiss steak, snow flake 
potatoes, cocoanut ball, rolls, and 
beverage.
Shirley Kreidwise and John 
Ackerman were requested to han
dle the details of the Workers 
Picnic to be scheduled in June, 
July, or August.
kvgHfOdM EThS Mb kvkFWkvIF kvUgFGH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 13, 1960
Editorial
Lets Evaluate The 
Job Were Doing
Each year hundreds of students graduate from Carnegie 
Tech and hundreds more complete courses in the many de
partments of the school. Some of these courses are inspiring, 
challenging, well taught and possess great educational value, 
others are unsuccessful, boring, presented by poor instructors 
and hardly worth the time wasted upon them. Still others 
(the vast majority belong to this group) lie somewhere in 
between these extremes, capable of improvement but valu
able even as they are now presented.
Student Opinion
But what use is made of student opinion of the many 
courses that are offered? Virtually none. Each year a 
valuable opportunity to evaluate the educational job that 
Carnegie Tech is doing is lost when student opinion is not 
sampled. Only a very few students have available to them 
channels through which they can express to faculty and 
administration their ideas and feelings.
I suppose that there are some who feel that student 
opinion is worthless and undesirable. I myself feel other
wise. Granted few individuals after completing four years 
of undergraduate school are capable of examining in terms 
of their long range goals and evaluating without error what 
courses and what aspects of these courses were most suc
cessful or unsuccessful. College students, however, are not 
so naive and immature that they cannot constructively eval
uate experiences they undergo. Some of the lectures and 
assignments that are presented are so obviously worthless 
that they belong on no college campus. Students should have 
the opportunity to have their views registered. Similarly, 
students ought to be able to make known what aspects of 
their Carnegie education have been most outstanding. Such 
information could not be invaluable to the various depart
ments of the school who wished to continue improving the 
quality of its graduates.
Questionnaires
How could student opinion on such matters be sampled? 
The problem is not as difficult as it first might seem. Ques
tionnaires or evaluation sheets could be given to seniors by 
each department some time before the end of the second 
semester. An even more complete and more extensive pro
gram could be undertaken by presenting all students at all 
levels with such an evaluation opportunity. Some instructors 
have done precisely this in their own courses. I think that a 
similar survey outlined above for the reasons mentioned 
could do a lot of good even though the answers would not 
always be the ones which were hoped for. Only by con
sciously evaluating the job it is doing can Carnegie Tech 
increase its standards. To leave student opinion out of this 
evaluation would in my mind be a mistake.
J.D.S.
j Readers Write... - |
Editors Note: vI
The following two letters pertain to a motion passed in Student Congress at the reg
ular meeting of March 23, 1960. To clarify the issues involved we are printing that rrffPtion exactly as it was passed.
WHEREAS, We the elected representatives of the student body of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology recognize as being the law of the land the doctrine that all men are created 
equal; and
WHEREAS, We find ourselves in sympathy with those Negro students who were ar
rested for their passive resistance^' 
to segregation practices in the 
South'today; and
WHEREAS, Negro students,* at
tending colleges and universities 
like ourselves, are today being ar
rested and fined for staging order
ly luncheon counter sit-down 
strikes and orderly demonstrations 
in protest of segregation practices; 
and
WHERAS, In our estimation 
such arrests and fines ar j contrary 
to our Constitution which guar
antees everyone  regardless of 
race, creed, or colorthe right to 
congregate and assemble for any 
non-violent purpose in addition to 
the freedom of speech; and
WHEREAS, A battery of 60 civil 
rSghts lawyers and legal experts
met at Howard University on 
March 19 to plan strategy for the 
defense of Negro students arrested 
in lunch-counter demonstrations 
in the South; therefore
BE IT MOVED, That the follow
ing telegram be sent to this con
ference of civil rights attorneys: 
Dear Sirs:
Having learned of your determi
nation to fight the mass arrests 
and fines arising from the wave of 
Negro lunch-counter' demonstra
tions in some southern states, we 
the elected representatives of the 
student body of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology send you this 
telegram in the hope that you will 
avail yourselves of every legal
means to free these Negro stu
dents. v
In addition, we would appreci
ate your passing along a message 
of encouragement to each and 
every Negro student who has been 
arrested and fined because of a 
lunch-counter demonstration. It is 
our sincere hope that such arrests 
and fines will not deter these stu
dents from peaceably demonstrat
ing for rights that have been 
granted them in our Constitution 
but which have been denied them 
by the southern states. ' *
If. there is anything that we as 
university students can do to aid 
Negro students who are protesting 
so admirably against a major 
tyranny, please let us know.
Civil Rights Dissention
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors, MU 2-8890, MU 3-0950; Advertising'Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of Carn gie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
(-Eftitor ............................................................................................................................ Jan Notopoulos
('-Editor ..................................... .............................................................................................. Bil> Pence
PI96O099 Manager ........................................................................................................... Mike Balsam
Advertising Manager .............................................................................................. Miles Holander
News Editor .....................................^................................. ............................................. James
Assistant News Editor .................................................................................................. Dave Pearson
Sports Editar  ...................................................................................................................... Page Miller %
C opv Editor ........................................................................................................................ Sally Ganong
Staff Editor ............................................................................................................. Mary Ann Melton
Photography Editor ........................................................................-.. Alan Kanegsberg
F atu-es FditorGeorge Logan, Advertising Business Manager 
J e Yevich, SecretaryPattie Michael. Circulation ManagerPeTe 
Kost.
News StaffVince Freund, Cindy Scott, Carla Blank, Andjea 
Kether, Janice Engeman, Pat Murray, Ellen Moskal.
Advertising StaffAllan Kullen, Harvey Berlin.
Sports StaffJohn Seango, Mike Berman, Denny Ross, Sherm 
Shcttiner, Bob Reber, Glenp Klepac, Bob Walker, Joe Lang.
Copy StaffJudy Slye, Pattie Plate, Maureen Mai ks.
Circulation StaffBill Kurtz.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Pagea2aCaA for national d.eiti  g by Nai> i Advertising, Inc.Annual Subscription rate: S2.00
Editor, the Tartan:
It is not difficult to understand 
wThy there is so much dissension 
on the issue of civil rights in the 
United States when one considers 
the meddlesome actions of such 
well-meaning but misdirected or
ganizations as the Tech Student 
Congress. Last month, without the 
knowledge of the student body, 
this group adopted a resolution on 
behalf of Carnegie Tech condemn
ing the law enforcement agencies 
in our Southern states for acting 
to prevent racial violence in the 
recent lunch-counter demonstra
tions. The resolution, written for 
a civil rights conference in Wash
ington, D.C., encouraged each 
and every Negro stude"nt who has 
been arrested and fined in these 
demonstrations to continue such 
activities. This resolution is com
pletely^ unworthy of a group 
whose purpose is the manage
ment of student affairs on this 
campus.
Interference
In the first place these dis
turbances in the South, however 
deplorable they may be, are mat
ters to be settled by the persons,
Editor, the Tartan:
Contrary to Mr. Anderson's con
tention, it is my opinion that it is 
most decidedly a legitimate func
tion of Student Government to 
pass resolutions similar to the 
one of March 23 which pertained 
to civil rights. In effect Mr. An
derson advocates that students, or 
at least organized student groups, 
should not take an active part in 
decisions affecting the welfare of 
students in general even in their 
own country.
In the particular issue of civil 
rights the Student Government 
seems to be additionally authoriz
ed to apt as it did since its con
stitution specifically provides that 
the Congress shall respect the 
restraints of the Congress of the 
United States with respect to the 
freedom and privileges of individ
uals. Clearly this specific things 
Student Congress should do as 
well as things it should not do.
Authority 
Despite the clear-cut authority 
of the Student Government to ex| press its opinion as the opinion 
of the student body as a whole 
because of the representative 
election procedures, it is quite 
clear that it did not do thisin the 
case under consideration. The re
solution claimed to represent the 
| opinion of only the elected re
communities, and courts involved. 
Southern citizens have not at
tempted to interfere in local is
sues which frequently arise in 
labor disputes in the Northern 
states. There are many cases of 
such labor incidents which in
volve as much violence and viola
tions of personal rights as any 
racial demonstration. Our domes
tic affairs would be in much bet
ter shape if persons would at
tempt to cast out the beams in 
their own eyes before criticizing 
other sections of the nation.
Secondly, the Student Congress 
displayed ignorance of the facts 
in the lunch-counter demonstra
tions by stating that Negroes were 
arrested because of orderly de
monstrations and passive resist
ance to segregation practices in 
the South. Although this may 
have happened in a few excep
tional cases, the resolution is er
roneous in condemning all the ar
rests, since the vast majority of 
those prosecuted had been parti
cipating in riotous behavior and 
disturbing the peace. Certainly, a 
private businessman has the right 
I to serve whom he pleases, and
presentatives of the student 
body, and there can be no doubt, 
that this it did, as the resolution 
passed through Congress and Ex
ecutive Council, without a dis
senting vote in either group.
It seems to me that in many 
particulars Mr. Anderson has not 
understood the resolution. It did 
not condemn any law enforcement 
agencies; it made no mention of 
racial violence. The Congress was 
not so naive as to assume that 
all the incidents which resulted in 
arrests of Negroes were non-vio
lent; but it did know that hund
reds of Negroes have been ar
rested for participating in peace
able demonstrations, and it was to 
those cases, and those cases alone, 
t*iat Congress directed its resolu
tion.
Legal Means
Mr. Anderson states that Con
gress encouraged people to break 
the law and that it interfered in 
internal affairs or southern states. 
With regard to the first point I 
call his attention to the fact that 
the telegram expressed the hope 
that the lawyers would avail 
themselves of every legal means 
to free these Negro students. Mr. 
Anderson may, however, contend 
that in encouraging Negro stu
dents to continue peaceable de
monstrations we are urging them
certainly the courts are justified 
in preventing any mob. actual 
which interferes with the peace
ful course of business. Why should 
Student Congress encourage any
one to break the law?
Irony
Finally the argument of the 
resolution is completely nullified 
by a statement recently published 
by the Supreme Court of the Stu
dent Congress. Concerning any 
panty-raids which mightoccur on 
the Tech campus, the Court d*- 
fines a mob as five or more stu
dents, and then claims that the 
mere presence in such a mob is 
evidence of guilt. Therefore . . . 
the spectators as well as the in
stigators will be presecuted. Is 
not this the very thing for which 
the South is being denounced? 
Why should participation in mass 
demonstrations be encouraged in 
the South but strictly forbidden to 
Tech students? It would seem thi 
there are more constructive atJi 
consistent activities to which the 
Student Congress could devote its 
efforts.
Sincerely,
Gerald Anderson
to break the laws of the states 
they live in. If this is his inter
pretation then by all means we 
are urging them to break the la^, 
but only because if this is the 
the first article of the Bill of 
law it restricts -rights granted in 
Rights: Congress shall make no 
law . . . abridging . . ; the right 
of the people peaceably to as
semble.
To the second point, that Con
gress interfered in internal af
fairs, I must point out that Con
gress did not interfere, but onlv 
encouraged those who wei*e tii* 
rectly involved, and who have al
ready taken the initiative to act 
of their own accord, to continue. 
On the other hand, it seems clear 
that there are certain issues which 
by their very nature cannot re
main local issues, but transcend 
state and even national bound
aries. In the, opinion of Student 
Congress, the civil rights issue is 
one of these. It Is readily apparent 
that the demonstr'ations in t h ly 
South would be doomed to failure 
if all the people in tie country; 
except those directly involved, 
and all the newspapers and all 
the legislative bodies completely 
ignored the issue or maintained an 
apathetic attitude toward it. The 
demonstrations would hot result 
in pressure being brought to bear 
[continued on page 5]

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 13, 1960CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
FGGvRGkOGd
AIR, FORCEOFFICER,
..V TRAINING 4fc'SCHOOL
T .FOP.COLLEGE
TEST YOURSELF!
If you see something wild in this ink blot, like maybe 
Lady Godiva fully clothed on a motorcycle, youre 
ready for non-directive therapy. Thats the kind where 
the psychoanalyst doesnt say anything to you, and 
we ourselves are very interested in it because of its 
advertising possibilities.
With the non-directive approach, wed just try to think 
you into smoking LfMs. We wouldnt have to tell you 
about how L*M, with its Miracle Tip, pure white in
side, pure white outside, has found the secret that 
unlocks flavor in a filter cigarette. And about how 
this means fine tobaccos can be blended not to suit 
a filter but to suit your taste.
Following the non-directive approach, wed simply 
show you the package. And this would give us more 
time to polish our wedge shot, which we seem to 
have trouble getting airborne. Or even moving.
Air Force
U6GETT & WVERS TOBACCO CO.
 i860 Liggett * Myets Tobacco Co.
Scotchll Soda Clubs 
Whos Who
Did you ever try to find Wendy 4Steinberg between 
March and May? Impossible!
Scotch n Soda is in rehearsal, and so is Wendy, a junior 
voice major in Fine Arts. She has various parts in the review 
has many sketches. Wendy*
has graduated from Set Em Up 
Again, last years production. A 
member oJl SAI, the musical hon
orary society, she has been in 
many shows, such as Wheres 
Charley and one of the three oneact plays given by the drama de
partmentFull Moon in March,
with original music written by 
John Girk.
Dames Are Dumb 
In On the Rocks, Wendy has 
a solo, April Moon, as well as 
a duet sung with Stu Warshawsky 
and entitled Dames Are Dumb. 
She also has a part in r satire on 
a well-known TV program.
This summer she will work in 
summer stock. All this is very 
good practice for a girl who hopes 
to enter the field of musical com
edy.
Playwrite Who Acts
Stu Warshawsky is a man 
about S n S.. Because of the na
ture of the show, the players often 
.have many diverse and unique 
parts, and Stu is an excellent ex
ample. He is a sophomore dramat 
with playwriting as his major, but 
he is also singer and actor in On 
the Rocks. He sings I Never 
Thought Id Be the One as well 
as a sketch and duet with Wendy 
Steinberg.
Letter
2CagAaRNE GICT WdnN 4] 
on those in the wrong to change 
their ways.
Goal
The goal of the Congress in 
sending the telegram was to com
municate a note of support to 
those people who are fighting for 
something Congress feels should 
be fought for. In this it succeed
ed, as may be infered from the 
fact that it received a very ap
preciative thank you letter from 
a student representative of How
ard University.
Finally, Mr. Andersons attempt 
to equate the lunch-counter de
monstrations with a panty-raid is
an absurdity. First of all, Bob 
Anselmi did not state that peace
ful mobs on the Tech campus 
would be prosecuted, only those 
mobs which instigated detrimental 
activities. But, far more import
ant, when we consider that a 
panty-raid cannot possibly result 
in any lasting benefit to its parti
cipants and is so obviously on at
tempt to disturb the peace for the 
sole enjoyment of disturbing the 
peace, comparing it with a peace
ful demonstration which touches 
upon the very deepest of human 
values becomes ridiculous. 
Sincerely,
Jan M. Chaiken
Student Congress Chairman

---------------------------------------------------

Mud
Threatens
Softball
Carnegie Tartan
IM
Track
Nears
Handball Action Nears Finals;'1 
Faculty Bulldogs Favored
As we approach playoff time in handball, we find four 
teams dominating most of the action. In the Haynes league, 
the Faculty Bulldogs (consisting of the physical education
staff' are, as usual, leading. In#:
35 Teams Enter Softball Leagues
On Monday, April 11, the thirty-five team intramural softball program got underway. 
Of the thirty-five teams, fifteen are better than average. Consequently^ all seven leagues 
have at least two good teams.
Last years champs, Sigma Nu, are expected to defend their title in the final round
again this year. Although they#------------------------------------------------------------------
lost Jim Swisher, last year s most jjams an(j jjm Rinaldo. and outvaluable softball player, they have 
found a capable replacement in 
Joe Garrett who has returned to 
the frat after spending two years 
in the service. Cris Parsons, all
school centerfielder, returns to 
bolster their outfield. Other stand
outs on the squad are Bill Wag
ner, first baseman; Pete Bouxsein, 
shortstop; and Charley Maddrey, 
second baseman. Their only pos
sible weakness lies in their out
field strength.
Other strong teams in the Pi
rates League with Sigma Nu are 
Tau Delta Phi and the Falcons. 
The Tau Delts return with prac
tically the same team except for 
noticeable losses on the left side 
of the infield and in the catching 
department. However, Jerry Gold
berg may fill in capably in place 
of Bimbo Roth. Exceptional fresh
men could make Tau Delt as 
strong as they were last year.
Falcons
The Falcons of this year are 
what TKN used to representa 
group of varsity lettermen in other 
sports playing softball. Some of 
the well-known personnel on this 
squad are Mike Flynn, Dom Perotta, Otto Leone, Len Lucas, Don 
Broscius, and George Frazier. 
Good pitching would * make this 
team great.
The team favored to finish as 
runner-up is the runner-up for 
the past three seasons, SAE. Bob 
Reber, two years on the all-school 
team as pitcher, and Chuck Vodvarka, twice all-school shortstop, 
appear to be the mainstays of the 
team. Bill Kraynek, catcher, Bob 
Miller, left fielder, and Charley 
Nelson, right fielder add much to 
a well-experienced squad.
Newman Club
The other strong team in with 
SAE in the Red Sox league is 
Newman Club, the team that came 
in third in the school last year. 
The Newman Club will be led by 
Dick Fitzgerald; however, the loss 
of Harry Fumea toy have cost 
them too much in the power-hit
ting and pitching department. The 
hope for the Newman Club lies in 
their experience.
As usual, the Kappa Sigs return 
with a good, battling team which 
Should finish third in the schorl 
this year. Pitcher Larry Burtner 
and catcher Roger Swigert are the 
big guns for KS. Others who add 
enough experience.to the team to 
make sure they will take their 
league are infielders Fred WilRNEG ITHNEW
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Featuring Pianist 
Paul Cohen
JA 1-8384
oftfiei&cks'
IN ITS EIGHTH 
MONTH OF PRODUCTION
fielder Jim Halow. The loss of 
two ex-all-school players, short
stop, Majewski and first baseman 
Watson, gives cause for their big
gest worries.
The team that is expected to
finish in the Braves League is the 
Delts. The Delts, who came in 
fourth last year, suffered heavy 
losses in the pitching and infield 
departments. Dick Spohn, all
school second baseman is gone, as 
[continued on page 7]
as
second place is a surprisingly 
strong Obelisk B team led by 
Dick Hunt.
In the Cratsley League, Tau 
Delta Phi A, last years runnerup to the Bulldogs for the campus 
championship, are currently tied 
with Obelisk A for t*he top spot. 
The two teams meet this week 
with the No. 1 and No. 2 under
graduate players in the school, 
Myles Hollander and Don Humes, 
playing each other.
The playoffs, which feature 
some very close games, will prob
ably finish: Faculty, Tau Delta 
Phi, Obelisk A, and Obelisk B.
kptfref&ckg
THE BEST YET!
IS SURE TO BE
Tecli Harriers 
Bow to Jeannette
Despite a fine showing by fresh
man, Phil Chau, Tech thin clads 
lost their first meet of the year 
to Jeannette 67-63. The weather 
and field conditions in general 
slowed both teams as temperatures 
ranged about the freezing point. 
Exception to the poor times was 
the two mile event won by Dobras 
of Tech in 10:14.2. Chau placed 
first and second in the 220 and 160 
yard dashes respectively, and ran 
on the winning mile relay team.
TECHNICAL PRODUCTION 
IS UNDERWAY!
ptfrej&ckg
HEADING HOME?
Co6-0 ,dIit0 dO rusun6dOe 900 BPL uYdIn ,dIt aInIt0g
If vouTe a senior or graduate student who stUI We want ambitious men and women with goodIf youre a senior or graduate student who still 
hasnt found out the facts about the varied career 
opportunities at IBM, now is the time.
Youll get a warm welcome at any of the more 
than 200 IBM Branch, Regional, and District 
Offices. Just call, ask for the manager, and make 
an appointment.
He will tell you what sort of company we are . .. 
what we do . . . how rapidly data processing is 
growing. And he can tell you what we offer quali
fied graduates in earnings, career training, job sat
isfactions and opportunities for rapid promotion.
We want ambitious men and women with good 
scholastic records for openings in direct and in
direct sales, applied science, administration, pro
gramming, systems, manufacturing,, engineering 
research, and product development.
See your Placement Officer for more information, 
and please feel free to call me for the location of 
the IBM office nearest your home:
Mr. G. W. Walkup, Branch Manager 
International Business Machines Corporation^ 
421 7th Avenue, Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Telephone: COurt 1-6880
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
v Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 13, I960
I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 13, 1960CARNEGIE TARTANPagre
mwwm s poMfasrfcnLKNtiC tt'AKET fES
[continued from page 6] 
jS Jake Young, the Delt bastballer. 
The Delts also lost two other in
fielders. Nevertheless, Bob Kelly, 
one of the better outfielders in the 
school last year, Jim Linduff, Dave 
Scott, and Phil Hodge return to 
help the Delts field another fine 
team.
Met Grads
^ne team that is favored for 
fourth in the school is a team that 
was completely out of the running 
last year, the Met Grads. More
over, they have lost the sefvices 
of one of the better athletes in 
the School when Bob Rapp gradu
ated. However, the addition of 
Jim Swisher to the squad over
shadows all losses the team had. 
Ben Patz adds additional strength. 
The Met Grads will be no push
over this year;' they should easily 
take the Indians League.
But in order to take their 
league,' the Met Grads will have 
to defeat another strong independ
ent team that has banded together 
the Holiday Draughts. Most of the 
fellows are dorm men who also 
reside in Machinery Hall. The ad
dition of Bimbo Roth should help 
their team considerably. ^
The weakest league may well 
b^he Cards League of which the 
best team is GSIA Maroon. The 
mainstays of the team are John 
Gray and Tony Petran, outfielder 
and shortstop, respectively. This 
team lool^d very good last year, 
but may find trouble replacing 
John Volpel, the good little south
paw pitcher of last year.
Phi Kaps 
Phi Kappa Theta, however, has 
no intention of letting GSIA run 
wgy with the league. If some sort 
or* pitcher develops from their 
pledge class, the Phi Kaps may 
well be one of the topteams on 
campus. Phil Wicklander, all^ 
school catcher for two years, and 
Mike Daugherty, ex-all-school 
outfielder, make the Phi Kaps a 
formidable team. The Phi Kaps 
big loss was Frank Grieco, an all
school outfielder last year who will 
not be playing this year.
The Senators League represents 
ti^P best show of three evenly 
matched teams as ATO, PiKA, and 
the Englishmen will fight for first 
place in the league.
The only outstanding feature in 
the ATO line-up appears to be 
Tom Huffs hitting. However, 
ATO can always be counted on to 
form a strong fighting aggregate 
The Englishmen have more poten
tial i their line-up due to Jim 
E-isler, Jim Trageser, and A1 
Philips, but have less chance of 
finding a good pitcher than does 
ATO.
PiKA
The team with the best chance 
could very well be PiKA. The 
PiKAs last year developed a good 
young team as the^ season pro
gressed as well as finding a pretty 
fast pitcher in Colin Phillips. 
Moreover, Bill Ladd, Bill Hall, and 
Steve Bell proved to be one of the 
b^:er hitting arrays on campys. 
Ira prediction were to tfe made, 
the PiKAs would have to be the 
team to beat in the Senators 
League.
The seventh and final league in 
softball this y^ar matches two 
rugged teams against each other 
Beta Theta Pi and Delta Upsilon 
Both have good personnel and fast 
pitchers. The only weakness in 
either team is the legality of each 
pj^hers delivery. Nevertheless 
eitner team could go all the way 
At this stage of the season, the 
Betas are the choice because of 
their experience. Pat Crecine is 
their fastball hurler. Herb Olds 
Mike Aaron, and Bill Sypher add 
power to the line-up. The team 
is well-experienced and should go 
far.
The DUs have a pitcher com 
parable to Crecine in Butch Balifta. Moreover, the hitting of Balilra. Ron DAngelo, and Lew 
Clark is nothing to be sneezed at 
The only thing this club lacks is 
experience. However, as the sea
son goes on the ability of the five 
outstanding freshmen the DU 
picked up combined with the 
strength of the other three fel 
lows, may make them one of the 
top four teams on campus.
Dr. C. M. Cyert 
To Be Speaker 
At Tulsa Confab
Dr. R. M. Cyert of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra
tion of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology will be a featured speaker 
ai the Conference of Accountants 
at the University of Tulsa, April 
20-21.
Head of the industrial manage
ment department and professor of 
economics and industrial * admin
istration, Dr. Cyert will present 
a paper on Statistical Sampling 
for Accountants and Auditors.
This is the 14th year for the 
conference to present nationally 
known speakers on the newest 
and best in accounting, auditing 
and control practices. The gather
ing is sponsored by the University 
of Tulsa College of Business Ad
ministration and nine professional 
societies.
Gulf Oil Corporation and sev
eral other international companies 
retain Dr. Cyert on a consulting 
basis.
He is known among accountants, 
and auditors as one of the few 
theoretical statisticians who have 
enough understanding of account
ing to place" statistics in practical 
application in our fields.
Have a real cigarette-have a CAMEL
bptberocfcsThe best tobacco makes the best smoke!
RN sy ECGITWA2 dTnsyyT ,TNp riCCTl1sWa3p 9N ,
2SA1
TANAi1 TSC 
TA 2EUh 5BhAN 
Bx
NEW
DUAL
FILTER
1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL ..  
definitely proved to make the smoke of a cigarette mild and smooth...
2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they bring you the best of 
the best tobaccosthe mildness and taste that pay off in pleasurel
u Pag muIdUGICERg CG ,praiylla 1i3R9C60

---------------------------------------------------

Face SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April IS, IM
Buggy Competition Had 
Beginning in 1920
By Jim Shiver y
If you had witnessed the first Sweepstakes Race on May 
14, 1920, you would have gotten quite a surprise. That was 
the first time anything like a buggy contest had ever been 
tried at Tech. ?---------------------------------;---------------
The conglomeration of rail bar
rels with bicycle wheels, fourwhe3ed orange crates, and three
wheeled ash cans put on quite a 
hilarious show as they started up 
Tech Street. They ran only one 
heat in those days, so things quite 
often got a little fouled up, and 
accidents were the usual thing.
First Buggry Race 
One observer said of the first 
event: Promptly at 9:30 the pistol 
cracked and the race was on. As 
the mighty chariots roared up to 
the first turn, the Delta Upsilon 
Grasshopper lost a wing and 
smashed into the curb. From then 
on the carnage was frightful, and 
the ambulances had plenty of 
work. Four minutes and thirty 
seconds from the start, the SAE 
and PiKA entries whizzed up to 
the finish line for a tie.
In the next few years, the vari
ous different aspects of the race 
were changed. One year, it was 
required of buggies to enter the 
pit and change the left rear 
wheel to the right -axle and vice 
versa.
Girls Race 
In 1923 and 1924 the girls got 
into the act by having a scooter 
race. An eyewitness of the girls 
in the race says, Their speed was 
evidently judged more by their 
costumes than by their place at 
the finish line.
The report goes even further to 
say that some of the girls wore 
the equivalent of Bermuda shorts. 
The girls scooter race, however, 
was soon replaced by a rollerskating race. Recently, sorority 
relays of various types have come 
to the fore.
It wasnt until 1926 that some
one had the idea of having the 
time trials on Friday morning and 
the finals on Saturday morning. 
The running of buggies in heats of 
three cut down the accident prob
lem considerably and raised the 
number of entries.
Competition Increases 
It was also in 1926 that a first 
trophy was given for design. This 
was the trophy which started the 
long climb of increasing competi
tion which has become more evi
dent in the past few years.
The buggy race of today evolved 
from that 1926 race in which a 
new time record of 3:22 was set.
QfitttflCfcg
AFTER EASTER 
TICKETS ON SALE
SINGERS ONLY
Phil Moore, famed arranger-coach for Lena Home, Marilyn Monroe, Diahann Carroll, Sinatra, etc. now makes it possible to giv# your voice truly professional styling and broaden your pop" repertoire at an amazing low cost.
fOi UNGUIS ONLY are kits designed for your voice. You get: 6 special routine* of all-time hits; printed orchestrations and lyrics; an LP with Mr. Moores vocal demonstrations alternating with orchestra backgrounds for your rehearsals; a Career Singing Book.
4 Kits in either low or high key are available: Ballads, Torchy 'N B/u*, 
Coo/ Jazz 'M Rhythm, Sophisticated 
Songs.
Only $12.95 per Kit
(ixcify vocal rang* when ordering)
Write for complete Information.
Since then the record has been 
broken many times with the most 
recent record of 2:25 being set by 
ATO three years ago.
Queens
[continued from page 1] 
Thetas queen candidate. Joanne 
is a clothing and textile major 
from Boston, Mass. During her 
active membership as a Theta she 
has served as social chairman and 
activities chairman.
ojittiei&cfcs
BY SCOTCH *N SODA 
WILL BE TERRIFIC!
The Delta Gammas have nom
inated Marianne Hadel as their 
queen candidate. She is an English 
major from Hyde Park, N.Y. 
Marianne is a co-chairman of 
Spring Carnival. She is also a 
mggriber of Mortar Board and Phi 
Tau Gamma.
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Kappa Kappa Gamma has nom
inated two Pittsburgh girls, Terry 
Rudy and Gloria Cofsky, for Car
nival Queen. Terry is majoring 
in business studies and is a mem
ber of the secretarial club. She is 
chairman of the Campus Chest 
committee and is also an active
member of Student Congas. 
Gloria Cofsky is majoring in sec. 
retarial studies. A past Military 
Ball Queen, gloria is a cheerleader and a member of Mortar 
Board. She has been president of 
Pan-Hellenic Council and on the 
executive board of Student Congress. 
SPECTACULAR 
MUSICAL COMEDY u
optheRtffes
Phil Moore
Carnegie Hall, 
New 1 9 N
April 14
THE GARRETT CORPORATION
AiResearch Divisions
will be on campus to interview
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
........................ B.S. - M.S. - Ph.D. candidates........................
The Garrett Corporation is one of the most 
diverse research, engineering and manu
facturing organizations in the aircraft, 
missile and technological fields.
From AiResearch laboratories have 
come pioneer developments in aircraft and 
missile components and systems. Today 
90% of the free world's aircraft use 
AiResearch equipment.
Other Garrett divisions and subsidiaries 
are creating a variety of products, including
industrial turbochargers and survival 
equipment, as well as supplying sales and 
service to airframe companies, airlines and 
the military.
Project work is conducted by small 
groups in which individual effort is more 
quickly recognized and opportunities for 
learning and advancement are enhanced.
With company financial assistance, you 
can continue your education at fine neigh
boring universities.
 TYPICAL PROJECT ACTIVITIES 
Electronic air data computers, pressure ratio trans
ducers, instruments, electrical systems and motors 
and generators.
Preliminary design, from analytical and theoreti
cal considerations, for high-level technical work in 
aerodynamics, stress analysis, thermodynamics, heat 
transfer, cryogenics, pneumatics, nuclear power and 
mathematics.
Auxiliary power units and hydraulic and hot gas
control systems for various types of missiles.
Air and vapor cycle refrigeration turbines, pneu
matically and mechanically driven compressors.
Gas turbine engine and other high speed rotating 
machinery design and analysis involving gas 
dynamics, thermodynamics and aerodynamics.
Air and spacecraft environmental control systems 
involving air and cryogenic valves and controls and 
heat transfer equipment.
 ORIENTATION PROGRAM 
In addition to direct assignments, an eightand work with engineers who are outstandmonth orientation program is available to ing in their fields. Your orientation may
aid you in job selection. You participate include familiarization with sales, contract
in Garrett project and laboratory activities administration and production.
 JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
Thermodynamic* 
Aerodynamics 
Missile Hot Gas and 
Hydraulic Systems 
Combustion Analysis 
Chemical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Instrumentation Design 
Gas Turbine Engines 
Stress and Vibration Analysis 
Preliminary Design 
Physics 
Gear Design
Laboratory Engineering 
Cryogenics 
Pneumatics 
Mathematics 
Electrical Engineering 
Transistors 
Instrument Design 
Electronics
Analog Computer Design 
Cycle Analysis 
Control Engineering 
Computer Programming 
Space Physics and Ionization 
Sales Engineering
Missile Turbine Accessory 
Power Units 
Magnetic Amplifiers 
Liquid Oxygen Systems 
Air Turbines
Freon Centrifugal Compressors 
Turbocompressors 
Welding Engineering 
Sensors and Servos 
Connecting Networks 
Electronic Flight Data Systems, 
Controls and Transistor Circuitry 
Air Conditioning and Heat 
Transfer
THECOR PORATION
UM
985 f S. SEPULVEDA BLVD., LOS ANGELES 45, CALIFORNIA
DIVISIONS, AIRESEARCH MANUFACTURING. LOS ANGELES  AIRESEARCH MANUFACTURING. PHOENIX  AIRSUPPLY 
AIRESEARCH INDUSTRIAL  AERO ENGINEERING  AIR CRUISERS  AIRESEARCH AVIATION SERVICS
