riAMTAN
VOL. 42No. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949
Class Organization Problem 
Outlined, Analyzed In Council
Jack Johnson Appears To Explain Proposal;
Coddington Defines Troubled Status Of WCIT
By Tom Birch
Council members held their breath in disbelief again last 
week as another friendly meeting took place, with no con
troversial matters coming before the body.
Presenting a program designed to strengthen undergraduate and 
alumni spirit through class organization, Jack Johnson, IA senior, 
laid his comprehensive analysis of a complicated problem before 
Council last week.
Robert Coddington, WCIT station manager, also appeared to 
answer questions about the present status of the station. Council
man Sapper recommended several changes and additions in the points 
and keys system. A committee1^
was established to study and 
work out the details of the Cam
pus Chest project.
Two amendments to the consti
tution were proposed by Councilmen Engle and Sedgwick.
Poor Organization
In Johnsons message to Coun
cil, he emphasized how poorly 
CITs alumni are organized by 
comparing the results of simultan
eous fund raising campaigns by 
Dartmouth and this school.
In 1947 requests were made by 
both schools for alumni support 
of some project. Six percent of 
Carnegies alumni responded with 
a total of $20,000, while 63 percent 
of Dartmouths graduates came 
through with a total of $400,000.
Proposes Organizations
Johnson proposed that classes 
be organized by electing class of
ficers and by holding numerous 
class events such as the freshmensophomore competition.
Spirit developing media such 
as these should be instituted so 
that Carnegie students will de
velop and retain an active interest 
in their school which will remain 
long after graduation, he said.
A special committee was form
ed to study the problem and 
make recommendations to Coun
cil.
No Room For WCIT
Coddington reported that 
WCITs main difficulty was the 
procurement of suitable space for 
the studios and obtaining an of
ficial okay from the FCC.
In answer to Councilman 
Fondrks questions, Coddington 
said that no budget was proposed 
at this time for the operation of 
the station but that from the tech
nical standpoint, the station could 
be put into operation in a short 
time.
The FCC is considering the 
outlawing of all regular campus 
radio stations and is proposing the 
establishment of noncommercial 
educational FM stations for cam
pus use, he said. It is this inde
cision that is holding up the FCCs 
re-issuing of WCITs license. 
Alter Point Awards
Dave Sapper recommended that 
the manager of the Kiltie band be 
automatically awarded a key and 
that the debating society alloca
tion of points be increased from 
[Continued on page 8]
Carnival Plans 
Being Revised
Construction of the new addi
tion to Engineering hall has 
thrown the previously scheduled 
Friday night Street Dance back 
into the planning stage. There 
will be an open air dance, but 
changes in plans must be made.
The only definite change made 
at this time is in regard to tickets 
for the two Carnival dances. One 
ticket, at $4.75, will suffice for both 
the Saturday night formal dance 
and the Friday night open air 
dance. Complete plans of the Fri
day night dance will be announced 
in the Tartan at a later date.
Queen Candidates
8. Its really not so tough.
8. its really not so tough.
N o m i n a t ing organizations 
must submit the names of their 
candidates for Carnival Queen 
to Miss Stewart, Dean of Mens 
office, before 5 p. m., April 21. 
All nominees must be full time 
seniors in day school. Sponsor
ing organizations are only 
sororities, womens dormitories, 
and Citcom Clan.
J. R. Vogan, Chairman 
Coronation Committee
More Clues On 
Band Released
Offers Ticket, Picture 
For Bandleaders Name
Hurry, hurry, hurry! Win a 
Spring Carnival ticket and have 
your picture taken with the, band
leader or female vocalist!
Spring Carnival committee is 
anxious to give you these prizes. 
Just solve the following easy clues 
and hand in the bandleaders 
name together with the solution 
to the clues to Miss Moses in the 
Dean of Mens office.
Spring Carnival committee 
members and members of the Tar
tan staff are ineligible. Only one 
entry per person is allowed.
Last weeks entries will not be 
checked until this weeks clues 
are published. Separate prizes will 
be offered for each weeks entries. 
If you tried last week, try again. 
The first correct entry for each 
week takes all. Hurry  Hurry  
Hurree-e-e!
Here are this weeks clues:
1. 10 + 2Q+(9).
Q=required for a bargain. 
Amare.
Famous Presidents middle in
itial.
(5) + (8) + (5) + (0) + 
(12) + (1).
Moved quickly including an M.
Vacation Notice
Ten days of freedom begin
ning at 5:30 p. m., Friday, 
April 8, and ending on Monday, 
April 18, will highlight the 
Easter vacation. Classes will 
resume on April 19. The sched
ule on April 19 will be regular, 
but Monday classes will be held 
on Wednesday, April 20.
There will be no Saturday 
classes on April 9, giving stu
dents who ordinarily have Sat
urday classes an extra half-day 
of vacation. This new policy will 
continue to be observed as long 
as there is no noticeable amount 
of cutting on Fridays.
7.
Council Offers 
Show, Dance
Benny Benacks Band, 
Highlanders Featured
Fast paced, all-new, a bargain 
at twice the price, and chuck full 
of entertainment, the Stag, Hag, 
or Drag musical show and dance 
will be presented by Student 
Council in the Mens Gym on Sat
urday night from 8:30 until mid
night.
Beginning with a 15 (count em) 
act show headed by Benny Ben
acks 14-piece band, the Highland
ers quartet, and other top drawer 
entertainers, the evening will be 
closed out with a dance to the 
rhythms of Benack and his crew.
Other outstanding acts prom
ised for the show by director 
Richard Hoch are Florine Robbins, 
harpist, and Dean Streator, ma
rimba expert. A mystery vocal 
combo, three men and two girls 
will also be heard.
Wes Kenney will narrate a spe
cial version of Little Red Riding 
Hood with the band supplying the 
musical backing, Benack himself 
playing Red.
One of the outstanding person
alities on the campus will be giv
en a heartfelt tribute from the 
student body during the show.
With Kenney acting as mas
ter of ceremonies, the show will 
occupy the first half of the even
ing. The IF bandstand will be set 
up opposite the permanent bleach
ers in the gym for the show, with 
about 400 folding seats set up on 
the floor in front of the bleachers
While the gym is being readied 
for the dance the crowd will be 
able to retire to Thistle hall where 
refreshments will be available, 
APO serving.
Student Council members, and 
members of Benacks band are 
selling tickets all this week. In 
addition, tickets will be available 
in Skibo each day at noon.
Dr. Doherty Outlines 
Plan To Meet Students
Social Evenings Offer Opportunity 
For Students, President To Meet
President Doherty outlined a plan at the Student Confer
ence committee meeting last Thursday that is designed to answer 
one perennial student gripe and provide a more effective an
swer for another.
The complain that the students dont see enough of the Presi
dent will be answered with a series of social meetings at his 
home to which groups of students from various campus organi
zations will be invited.
These meetings, Dr. Doherty 
explained, will be exclusively so
cial gatherings, and will not serve 
as gripe sessions, but will be 
strictly opportunities for the Pres
ident and the students to get to 
know one another better.
An Experiment 
This will be tried on an ex
perimental basis, just as the pres
ent Student Conference commit
tee was set up on an experimental 
basis.
If this doesnt work out, well 
try to work out something better. 
I expect to have one or two of 
these meetings this spring so that 
well be ready to make it work 
next fall.
He explained that the Student 
Conference committee, when it 
was first set up, handled numerous 
problems which had been piling 
up over a period of years, most of 
which were questions of specific 
arrangements.
As this accumulation was re
duced, the discussions tended to 
center more and more on larger 
questions involving policy, the 
President went on. The confer
ence group as now organized did 
not seem to be as effective in this 
area as he would like. As an ex
ample he referred to the football 
situation last fall.
Different Approach 
Therefore, he went on, I 
have decided, after a good deal of 
thought, to try a slightly differ
ent approach to the problem.
The problems which most often 
come up now are not those that 
can be setled around a1 dinner ta
ble in one hour, but rather those 
that require continuing study and 
continuing attentioi) to make any 
real improvements.
ODK Is Nucleus 
Dr. Doherty explained that he 
had worked out tentative plans 
for the two groups with Dean 
Dickinson and Dr. Miner, director 
of student personnel and welfare.
They found that the qualifica
tions for membership in ODK were 
very close to those required for 
[Continued on page 10]
President Doherty
Spring Calls 
Delayed Week
Tight Schedule Forces 
Call Day Plan Change
Because of the already crowded 
Spring Carnival schedule, the 
various organizations which usu
ally make spring calls at that 
time will call one week later on 
May 17.
Call day, which will be given 
under the direction of ODK, util
izing its organization for Spring 
Carnival, will be held during the 
regular Tuesday chapel hour in 
the Sylvan theater.
Although the plans are not 
complete as yet. Joe Vogan, chair
man, hopes to have the Kiltie 
band and Glee Clubs provide en
tertainment on the program.
Scimitar, Delta Skull, ODK, 
Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, Mor
tar Board, and Cwens are expect
ed to make calls at that time. 
Other organizations wishing to call 
at that time may do so by con
tacting Vogan.
Reveal Frosh Work Survey
Committee Releases Results Based 
On Freshman Subject Evaluation
By Joe Weinreich
Results of a survey made on the freshman work load in the 
College of Engineering and Science were released recently by Pro
professor J. B. Rosenbach, who conducted the poll.
Begun as an investigation to determine approximately how 
much time students were actually# 
spending in outside preparation on 
their various courses, the study 
was made in the form of a ques
tionable which was distributed to 
freshmen in their general chem
istry lectures. The average re
sults of the survey are presented 
page twelve.
According to Professor Rosen
bach, the poll revealed that the 
work of the freshman year is too 
difficult in two possible respects:
(1) there are too many courses 
in the first semester, (2) the 
amount of time required for out
side preparation in some courses 
is too great.
In line with the first finding,
Prof. J. B. Rosenbach, acting 
head of the mathematics depart
ment, who conducted poll to de
termine study load placed on 
freshmen engineers.
Professor Rosenbach explained 
that the heavy schedule carried 
by first semester freshmen appar
ently makes it difficult for them 
to accustom themselves to the 
college level of study.
He suggested that one answer to 
this problem would be to lessen 
the first semester curricula for 
entering students and to shift 
some of it to the second semester 
or the sophomore year. Rosen
bach stressed that no recommen
dations of any kind have been 
made; no complete or detailed 
study has been made of fresh
man subjects in light of the facts 
[Continued on page 12]
Art Night Shoivs 
Original Efforts 
In All Departments
Original student work in archi
tecture, drama, music, sculpture, 
and painting and design will be 
presented in the Second Annual 
Arts Night on April 24, from 8 to 
11 p. m.
Under the chairmanship of 
George Corrin, the Arts Night 
committee will attempt to illus
trate the interrelationship of cre
ative problems and their solutions 
in the various Fine Arts depart
ments.
This years program is being 
presented with many past criti
cisms as its guide. As a result of 
these criticisms many more dem
onstrations wTill be presented this 
year.
In announcing its plans for Arts 
Night, the committee has found 
that it will be necessary to restrict 
the program to Fine Arts students 
and faculty because of t>pace limI itations.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 194
Car negie T art an
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365. SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh. Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ............................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ..................................... Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager ................................. Richard B. Mitchell
News EditorRobert Kubiak. Sports EditorPaul Offertnann, Copy EditorBert Kimmel, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussel F. Kulberg, Features Editor Frank Roth, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business ManagerHerbert Stone, Personnel AssistantRay Mangold, Chief ReportersBennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy Joseph Weinrich, Frances Hamborsky, Lauri Ehni, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger. Copy Staff-Hamilton, Bartlett, John Gerum, Analee Gelman, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Elizabeth Asche, Ed Muttart, Lloyd Dyer, Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist. Jack Johnson, Makeup StaffA1 Bader, Photographer-Leland Green.ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell Nancy Sitler, Tom Birch. Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos, Sus MacFedden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Anita Tabellini, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood, Sports Staff Richard Barr, Gerry Conlon, Robert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt, Art Mensing, John 
Roslung, Bruce Updike.Business StaffMorty Baker, Fdmund Denburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon, Herman P Alexander.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean, 
Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year. . Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925 Authorized Octo
ber 21. 1918.
The More (Letters) The Merrier
Editorials
Glad To Have Them
There is apparently a widespread belief that 
the columns of the Tartan are well-nigh unap
proachable for the average student. This is not 
so. Any student who feels that he has informa
tion or an opinion that should be brought to 
the attention of other students on the campus 
should feel free to write a letter to the editor.
We particularly desire to receive opinions that 
differ with the expressed editorial policy of the 
Tartan. Indeed we invite and we greatly appre
ciate such letters.
All letters must be signed, although we will 
withhold writers names if they should so de
sire. And finally, the Tartan retains the right 
to shorten letters if that is necessary to fit them 
to the space available.
Another Step Forward
The new plan for meeting the students and 
working cm student problems that Dr. Doherty 
presented to the Student Conference committee 
last week warrants the attention and thought of 
every student.
It is a step in the direction of answering 
the constantly recurring complaints that the 
President isnt seen enough by the students. 
Then too, it is an adjustment to new' circum
stances in the form of an advisory commit
tee to the President.
Recent meetings of the Student Conference 
committee, ha^e been more like bull sessions 
than problem-solving seminars. Much more than 
one hour of discussion per month is needed to 
solve the really important problems that face 
Carnegie students today.
But What Does It Mean?
Except for the fact that it doesnt really mean 
very much, the student Bill of Rights presented 
to Student Council last w^eek might be a very fine 
document.
We are rather surprised to see such a docu
ment seriously presented on this campus, where 
so far as we know none of its points have been 
seriously threatened or questioned.
A Bill of Rights would ordinarily be expected 
to come from students who were on the defensive, 
who had had specific rights trampled on and 
who had specific complaints against administra
tion domination. Despite the grumbling and grip
ing that takes places on this campus, most stu
dents would be hard put to build a strong case 
against administration domineering.
Obviously a Bill of Rights can mean 
nothing until and unless it is applied to spe
cific instances and specific actions.
It is certainly better to have a warm rap
port existing btween the students and mem
bers of the faculty and administration with 
a sense of common purpose permeating their 
relationships, than it is to have merely a 
written definition of responsibilities which 
may mean different things to different peo
ple and provide grounds for bickering rath
er than a rallying peint for unity.
Anyway, we think that Carnegie students are 
too busy going to college and exercising their 
right* to spend much time and energy defining 
them. They can always have more rights when 
they show that they are ready and willing to 
accept the responsibility that necessarily at
tends them.
ODK Submits Plan For 
All-School Open House
Carnegie students wall be given an oppor
tunity to become acquainted with the work of 
their fellow-students in all the departments of 
the three colleges if a plan submitted last week 
by Norm Franz and George Corrin as an ODK 
pledge project receives sufficient support.
Although Franz first undertook the project, 
Corrin was able to furnish suggestions and ideas 
from his experience as chairman of the Fine 
Arts school Arts Night last spring.
Bring Students Together
Franz and Corrin describe their idea as an 
attempt primarily To acquaint Carnegie Tech 
students with the purposes, endeavors, and ac
complishments of their fellow students and secgether on a project which has unity of pur
pose, and thereby serving to bring together 
students aiming toward widely varying pro
fessions.
They emphasized that the project must be 
completely conceived and carried out by students, 
with faculty and administration members acting 
only in an advisory capacity. This does not mean 
however, that faculty cooperation would not be 
needed, but that the w?ork would be carried out 
by students.
Guided Tours
The exact means ox acquainting students with 
all three colleges would be to hold guided tours 
for freshmen at some date early in the second 
semester of the school year.
Although four years would be required to 
reach the goal of having all students go through 
the indoctrination, Franz feels that too great a 
disruption of regular classwork wrould occur if we 
tried to run the entire student body through at 
one time.
On regular class day sessions would be held 
from 1:00 to 5:00 in the afternoon and 6:00 to 
10:00 in the evening. During the afternoon ses
sion the students would be introduced to their 
own college, and in the evening they would visit 
the other two.
Orientation Assembly
On each occasion, the session would begin 
with an orientation assembly which might re
quire about an hour. For the remainder of the 
session the students would tour the college in 
groups of fifteen, with a guide in charge of each 
group.
They would move about, stopping at each 
class, laboratory, workshop, or display, with the 
guide explaining what was going on. These tours 
would, of course, have to be carefully scheduled 
to avoid congestion and confusion.
The same program would follow in the even
ing session except that students would go through 
the other two colleges. Every attempt would be 
made to insure that students would be able to 
see all three colleges operating just as they or
dinarily do.
Restricted To Students
Differing from the all-school open houses 
held before the war, the Freshman Open House
[Continued on page 51
New Manager 
Sets Goals 
For Kilties
Several goals are ahead for BUI 
Waller, the new manager of the 
Kiltie band. The first is to see 
that the band fills all 2,014 seats 
in Carnegie Music hall for the 
band's spring concert on April 28* 
In addition he hopes to field a 
fully equipped 90 piece marching 
band next falL
Waller was elected to his new 
position last month along with 
Joe Staniszewski, secretary. An 
outstanding job was done by 
Waller in the selling of 1400 Kiltie 
calendars which netted the band 
equipment fund approximately 
$200.
Many plans have already been 
made for this semester. On the 
afternoon of April 2 the band will 
give a half-hour concert on 
WCAE. Starting late in April, the 
popular campus concerts in front 
of Fine Arts will be presented at 
11:30 on Tuesday every other 
week.
At Spring Carnival the band 
will lead the float parade, and a 
committee of Kilties will operate 
the refreshment concession at the 
Saturday night dance.
Bill Of Rights Is Presented 
To Council By Tom Sedgwick
Fulfilling one of the Dormicom partys campaign promises, Coun
cilman Tom Sedgwick proposed the following student Bill of Rights 
to Student Council last Wednesday:
1. The right of every student to a college education.
2. The right to conduct research freely and to publish, dis
cuss, and exchange any findings or recommendations, whether in
dividually or in association with local, national, or interna
tional groups.
3. The right of students to a clear and concise statement, 
before entering college, of their contractual rights, obligations, 
and responsibilities pertaining to educational and extra-curricu
lar activities.
4. The right of every student to exercise his full rights as 
a citizen in forming and participating in local, national, or in
ternational organizations from intellectual, religious, social, po
litical, economic or cultural purposes, and to publish and dis
tribute their views.
5. The right of recognized student organizations to use the 
institutions name subject to its regulations with respect to offcampus activities.
6. The right of students and recognized student organiza
tions to use campus facilities, provided the facilities are used for 
the purpose contracted, subject only to such regulations as are 
required for scheduling meeting times and places.
7. The right to invite and hear speakers of their choice 
on subjects of their choice.
8. The right of students to engage freely in off-campus 
activities, provided they do not claim to represent the institu
tion, exercising their rights as citizens of community, state, and 
nation.
9. The right to establish and issue regular publications 
free of any censorship or other pressure aimed at controlling 
editorial policy, with the free selection and removal of editorial 
staffs reserved solely to the organizations sponsoring these pub
lications.
10. The right to establish democratic student governments 
with adequate democratic safeguards against abuse of their pow
er.
11. The right to petition through proper channels for change" 
in curriculum or professors.
12. The right of equal opportunity to enjoy these rights 
without regard to race, color, sex, national origin, religious creed, 
or political beliefs.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Bill Stewart flips a griddlecake and plays his sax as he cuts 
Henry Carlsens hair.
* *  
4Barber Bill9 Stewart Provides 
Sax Music And Griddlecakes
Some people have a lot more talent than is their just right, 
and one of those people is Bill Stewart. An architect junior, Stewart 
is a professional barber, plays the sax well enough to have been a 
member of Charley Spivaks orchestra, and fills in as cook at the 
TX house when the regular cook# 
isnt around.
Besides these skills, he has also 
worked as a plumber, clothes 
presser, and sometimes has even 
found time for a little artistic 
painting.
Explanation of how he ac
quired all his talent is quite sim
ple. As for the music and cook
ing he explains, Im part Bo
hemian, and Bohemians have two 
loves, food and music. As for 
the rest, he just seemed to fall 
into them.
Becomes Barber 
One day when Stewart was in 
high school he stopped in a bar
bershop to talk to a friend. The 
town loafer was there for a hair
cut but had no money to pay for 
it. Bill asked the barber if he 
could try this hand at it and the 
barber, seeing no great loss to his 
business, agreed.
The hair cut turned out quite
well, evidently, as Bill became a 
part time barber. In his spare 
time, however, Bill kept up with 
his other jobs: plumbing and
pressing clothes.
Joins Spivak 
After leaving high school, he 
played with a small band that 
one day landed in New York. That 
day Charley Spivak was missing 
a sax player and Bill got the 
chance to fill in for the missing 
musician. There he stayed until 
he joined the service.
At the present time Stewart 
spends his week ends playing at 
many of the local dances with a 
trio that he organized.
What made him turn to archi
tecture is still partly a mystery to 
him although he suspects that it 
is allied to his love of art. This 
love is exemplified by his fine 
paintings.
Bet the kid has talents he hasnt 
even used yet.
A LOT 
MORE 
TRAVEL
Round Trip Fares
AKRON, 0.......................$4.45
BALTIMORE, MD....0.65
BUFFALO, N. Y...............8-85
CHARLESTON, W. VA.$0.90
CLEVELAND, OHIO ..1.45
COLUMBUS, OHIO ...6-40
DETROIT, MICH...............
0.65
FT. WAYNE, IND. ...1045
HARRISBURG, PA...8.30
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
1V55
NEW YORK CITY ....1440
PHILADELPHIA, PA..1155
SUNBURY, PA. .............g.20
Kilties Broadcast
Featured on a program spon
sored by the United States Army, 
the Kiltie band will broadcast 
over WCAE at 2 p. m., April 2, 
from the William Penn ball
room.
The program, held to celebrate 
Army Day, will include marches 
and light concert selections by 
the band, as well as several 
speeches made by members of 
the Army.
DuPont Sends Representative
MORE
AMTN.N6-40
MORE
F40YM0-M06
MORE
F40OM0-NT
OAMRK4C0I 6MA1-0NT
Liberty at Grant Phone GRant 5700
GREYHOUN
Miss Watts To Preview 
Chemical Discoveries
Miss Arretta Lynch Watts will 
preview the newest industrial 
chemical discoveries for a Carne
gie audience in the Margaret Mor
rison assembly hall at 3:30 p. m. 
on April 6.
As a representative of the Du
Pont Chemical company, Miss 
Watts will include a demonstra
tion of products which are yet in 
the experimental or evaluation 
stage. Some of these experimental 
products are so new that there is 
no known commercial use for 
them.
One of the subjects Miss Watts 
will discuss is titanium, a metal 
with the advantageous properties 
of steel but which is only half as 
heavy. Miss Watts will demon
strate a tough, resilient, manmade fiber, Orion, which re
sists degradation by sunlight.
Also contained in Miss Watts 
talk will be a review of the de
velopment of nylon, rayon, and 
cellophane.
The lecture, given in non-technical terms, is open to the public.
Six Awards 
To Be Given 
At Greek Sing
Winners To Be Told 
During Intermission 
Of Greek Swing
Greek Sing will be held at Sol
diers and Sailors Memorial Hall, 
on Friday, April 22. At 9:00 the 
following evening Greek Swing 
will get under way in the gym
nasium to the popular rhythms of 
Bill Leroys orchestra.
Friday nights evening of song 
will begin at 7:45 and end ap
proximately three and one-quarter 
hours later. The winners will be 
announced during intermission at 
the dance on Saturday night.
An innovation of this years 
Sing and Swing will be the nam
ing of first and second place win
ners, and an honorable mention, 
in each of the two divisions. In 
other years only two first prizes 
were awarded; this year, how
ever, two first and two second 
place cups will be given out. As 
in the past, competition will be 
inter-fraternity, and inter-sorority.
Two of the three people invited 
to judge the affair have accepted. 
They are, Mrs. Robert Ayers, head 
of the voice department at Penn
sylvania College for Womens 
School of Music, and Mr. Stan 
Norman, of radio station WPIT. 
Mr. Norman holds a doctors de
gree in music from Harvard Uni
versity. Mr. I. W. Danforth, pres
ident of the Pittsburgh Civic Light 
Opera Company, has been absent 
from Pittsburgh, and has not re
plied to his invitation.
A greater number of people will 
be accommodated this year due 
to the 2500 seating capacity of 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall. Last year the event was 
held at the Carnegie Music Hall, 
which has a seating capacity of 
about 1300. Present arrangements 
will also permit the distribution 
of about a hundred tickets to 
newsmen, and prominent Pitts
burghers.
Each group of contestants shall 
be limited to no less than four, 
nor more than twenty singers, and 
will be allowed a maximum num
ber of three songs, which must be 
presented within a seven minute 
interval.
John Fockler
Miss Arretta Lynch Watts, who 
will demonstrate the newest de
velopments coming out of the Du
Pont chemical research laborator
ies.
Focklers Plan For Publications 
Presented To Council Today
Publications Committee Revision Designed 
To Prevent Recurrence Of Scottie Situation
By Bert Kimmel
John Fockler will present a "mucn needed plan of revision 
of the publications committee to Student Council today. The es
sence of the plan is to set up a working comittee that will prevent 
major publication crises, such as the Scottie situation last fall.
The plan also provides for the 
establishment of new publications 
and a board to which students 
may bring their gripes about the 
campus publications.
Agree In Principle 
Commenting on the new plan, 
the various publication heads 
agree with the principle of the 
plan and the . 
prop osed orf|ll 
g a n ization of 
the committee, 
but are appre
hensive of the | 
amount of disc r e t i o n and 
trust which the i 
plan would! 
leave them. mm 
The new set-|jr 
up would es
tablish three
main publication divisions under 
Council. These are an Editorial 
Board of Appeals, Executive Pub
lishing boards, and a Minor Pub
lications board. One executive 
publishing board would be ap
pointed for each major publica
tion while the minor publishing 
board would oversee all other 
publications under Councils jur
isdiction.
Separate Boards
Describing the old organization 
of the publications committee as 
unworkable, Fockler devised 
separate boards for each publica
tion to prevent the editor of one 
publication from having to com
ment on and correct another edi
tors work. This was the set-up at 
the time of the Scotties death.
An executive publishing board 
would have the power to approve 
the editorial, advertising, and 
budget policies of the publica
tion. It would also have the pow
er to request the resignation of a 
publication official if the board 
thought it would be to the best in
terest of the student body.
Right and Wrong
The extent of these powers were 
questioned by several of the pub
lication heads. Walt Ambrose, ed
itor of the Technical felt that the 
editors were being hamstrung. 
In his opinion, Almost all edi
tors have worked on their pub
lications for at least two years and 
should know what is right and 
wrong. The trust that is placed in 
them by being elected to their 
position will be undermined by 
the board constantly looking over 
their shoulders.
John Biewener, Thistle editor 
believes a change is definitely in 
order, and this plan sounds like 
it might well be an effectice solu
tion.
Tartan editor Robert Johnson is 
in favor of the revised publica
tions control system but wants to 
be sure that editors are left with 
the discretionary powers that give 
the editorship its meaning.
The position of the editorial 
board will be that of a final board 
of appeals, according to Fockler. 
The board will not meet regular
ly but only when the situation 
seems necessary. It is to thi* 
board that students may submit 
written complaints or suggestions.
Delta Skull Proposes 
Administrative Chart
Recognizing the lack of student 
information concerning the ad
ministration, Delta Skull has pro
posed a solution in the form of 
an administrative organization 
chart.
This chart will indicate the re
lationships among the administra
tive departments, including 
names, titles, and a brief descrip
tion of the functions of officials.
Key Applications
All applications for the new 
all-school activities key must 
be completed and returned to 
the Dean of Mens office by 1:30 
p. m. on April 8.
Students who do not have 
applications but wish considera
tion for the award may obtain 
blanks and instruction sheets 
from the Deans office.
Publications 
Set Individual 
Staff Banquets
For the first time since the war, 
Carnegies three major student 
publications will hold separate 
publications banquets for their 
staffs. Until this year the banquet 
was held jointly by the Tartan, 
Thistle, Scottie, and Technical, 
and sponsored by Pi Delta Epsilon, 
the journalism honorary.
The Tartan staff banquet will 
be held on Tuesday, April 26, in 
the Carnegie Union; all Tartan 
staff members are invited. Charles 
Ruch, editor of the Westinghouse 
News, will be guest speaker. Aside 
from his discussion of journalism 
in general, he will give a critique 
of the Tartan.
Walter Ambrose, editor of the 
Technical, said that the organiza
tions plans were not yet com
plete. It is definite, however, that 
the banquet will combine both 
Technical and Cano staff mem
bers. Ambrose stated that, be
cause of lack of funds, he may 
be forced to schedule the Techni
cal and Cano banquet in the form 
of a party at a fraternity house. 
Regardless of the form, there will 
be entertainment and a speaker.
Editor of the Thistle, John 
Biewener, would not divulge 
plans for his publications affair. 
If it is held, the date will be some
time during the latter part of May.
Remington Rand Shows 
Film At SAM Seminar
It Must Be Somewhere, is the 
title of the sound and technicolor 
picture which will be shown at 
Fridays SAM seminar by the 
Remington Rand company. The 
movie, which illustrates filing 
procedures, will be narrated by a 1 White Book, Freshman 
Remington Rand representative. | and possibly the C-Bc
Tentative plans includc 
chart for the wall of the 
Mens office and small 
with explanatory copy
lai
Dea
rep
in
mdb
the
sok.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949
LOLA ALBRIGHT 
A cover girl in every sense of 
the word, lovely Lola Albright, 
one of screendoms brightest 
new stars, will grace the cover 
of Parade, the national fullcolor magazine, to be distrib
uted with the first issue of 
the exciting new Sunday PostGazette on March 27. Besides 
Parade every week, the Sun
day Post-Gazette will have the 
Tri-State Weekly, local color 
gravure magazine, two whop
ping-big comic sections headed 
by Dick Tracy, plus a comic 
book free every Sunday, and 
the same topnotch black-andwhite features that have made 
the Post-Gazette the Tri-States 
most popular daily newspaper 
and a lot of new features 
besides. Look for the Sunday 
Post-Gazette March 27and 
every Sunday after that. Miss 
Albright is one of the stars of 
Champion, soon to be re
leased to local theaters by 
United Artists.
Fockler pointed out that only 
the editorial board governing a 
specific publication would have 
the authority to approve the pol
icy of that publication. A maga
zine similar to the Scottie could 
then be published and could have 
any differences settled by its own 
editorial board.
Finances Prevent Operation
Since the financial troubles of 
the old Scottie are not yet settled, > 
it is impossible to begin a new 
magazine this semester.
However, Fockler also said, 
Anyone who is interested in re
viving the humor magazine next 
semester will be given a chance 
to express his ideas. The new pub
lication could have an entirely dif
ferent name and policy and would 
be set up under Councils jurisdic
tion.
As the plans stand now, those 
interested would have an inter
view with Fockler and his com
mittee. They would pick the best 
idea submitted and would aid in 
selecting a staff for the magazine. 
The proposed change in the ed(An Advertisement)
L.&./MF.T lucky Strike Meant fine 7L.&//L
So round, so firm, so fully packed  so free and easy on the draw
 COm., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COM****
Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre 
low ... calms you down when youre tenseputs
you on the Lucky level! Thats why its so important 
to remember that Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco
mild, ripe, light tobacco. No wonder more indepen
dent tobacco expertsauctioneers, buyers and ware
housemensmoke Luckies regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined! Get a carton of Luckies today!
Future Of Scottie In Question; 
Staff, SC Take Opposite Views
Former Editor Skeptical, Fockler Optimistic 
Concerning Fate Of Defunct Humor Magazine
By Laura Ehni
In answer to the question of where the now defunct Scottie lies 
buried, Barry Evans, former editor, replied, The Scottie is in the
hip pocket of Student Council. 
Don Stitt, business manager, 
left of the humor magazine is th < 
office equipment, since there is 
only a big deficit to remind any
one that the Scottie ever existed.
However, John Fockler, chair
man of publications for Student 
Council, is taking a much more 
optimistic view of the fate of the 
Scottie. If his new editorial board 
policy is accepted by Student 
Council, the Scottie or a similar 
magazine could be brought back 
to the campus in the very near 
future.
Provides Separate Boards
Fockler said that Under the 
present system, one editorial 
board governs all student pub
lications. The reorganized system 
would provide each publication 
with its own editorial board which 
would consist of the publications 
chairman, the editor, the busi
ness manager of the publication, 
and two Student Council mem
bers appointed by me.
seemed to feel that all that is
itorial board system will be in
cluded in the new by-laws which 
will be presented to Student 
Council today.
This year the Spring Carnival 
committee is publishing a pro
gram to take the place of the Car
nival issue of the Scottie.
Dr. Johnstone Named 
Architects Group Head
Professor Kenneth B. Johnstone, 
director of the College of Fine 
Arts and head of the department 
of architecture, has been elected 
president of the Association of 
Collegiate Schools of Architecture, 
an organization of which he has 
been vice-president for the past 
two years.
Opening on April 7 at the CarPittsburgh Works
negie Institute galleries will be an 
exhibition of paintings entitled 
Pittsburgh, 1790-1949. The ex
hibition is planned as a part of 
Pittsburgh Welcome Weeks, a dis
trict-wide celebration in honor 
of Pittsburghs progress during 
the seventy-five year activity of 
the Chamber of Commerce.
Over two hundred items will be 
shown, including the earliest 
sketch of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 
in 1790, by Lewis Brantz, and the 
first oil painting of the city, Pitts
burgh in 1806, by George Beck.
Paintings, drawings, and prints 
will continue the Pittsburgh scene 
up to the present time. An exhi
bition of twenty-five portraits will 
be included; these will form a 
Hall of Fame for Pittsburgh.
During the period of the exhi
bition the galleries will be open 
to the public on Mondays from 10 
a. m. to 10 p. m.; Tuesdays through 
Saturdays 10 a. m. to 5 p. m.; and 
Sundays 2 p. m. to 6 p. m.
Maj. Clayton Doherty and Capt. George Zeigler, who will inter
view candidates for the Army Aviation Cadet program on Thurs
day and Friday. All interested students must first contact the Bureau 
of Placements.
Carnegie Galleries 
To Exhibit
Officers To Explain AAF Career

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Date Bureau in Dorm 
Ends Blind Date Peril
By Frank Roth
Blind, dating, although it has been a frequent, if not necessary 
evil, has recently been eliminated from the extracurricular activities 
of dorm men by the formulation of a date bureau containing the 
facts and figures on some 85 nurses.
Noticing that some of their af-^
fairs suffered from a super-abund
ance of either men or women, and 
that partners did not always seem 
overjoyed with each others com
pany, Hubert Fitzgerald and Kirk 
Carney took steps to correct the 
situation.
Nurses Chosen
Sources of supply were consid
ered, and finally it was decided 
that a nurses residence was an 
ideal choice. A list of the local 
hospitals was made and McGee 
was chosen for the honor.
The powers that be at the hos
pital reported that the student 
nurses of the hospital attended 
Pitt and were consequently amply 
provided with dates. An impres
sion that the girls would date the 
cadavers from the anatomy lab 
before they would sink to the 
level afforded by an alliance with 
Carnegie was also implied.
Since McGees attitude was not 
conducive to sunny relations, and 
with Mt. Mercy eliminated be
cause the girls could not get 
lates on Saturday nights, Shadyside was next approached. Whole
hearted enthusiasm greeted the 
proposal, and sanction was readily
inmdbSo Trud,ms fly 
ipramups Sua crsbumsskmu
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
obtained from the head of nurses 
and the recreation director.
Information Filed
The new service got off to a 
slow start, but gradually gained 
favor among the dorm men and 
is now a smoothly-functioning or
ganization. The reputation en
joyed by the bureau is excellent, 
as shown by the fact that spe
cials have been granted to the 
girls by the head nurse in order 
to attend important affairs,
Each card in the file has a 
photograph of the nurse and lists 
her height, age, graduating class, 
and telephone number. Such per
tinent information as Do you 
like to dance? is sub-divided in
to Smooth? and Jive? col
umns. There are also two listings, 
one entitled Comment and the 
other Revisions.
Some Restrictions
Date-seekers are not allowed 
to leaf indiscriminately through 
the files. Instead a choice must 
be made from a group of four 
girls. This gives every girl an 
equal number of dates, and as 
Fitzgerald euphoniously pointed 
out, the men dont date Dollys 
only.
Engineering Hall Addition Begins
New Wing To Be Used
Construction Cancels 
Metallurgy Open House
Construction of the new wing 
to Engineering hall has forced the 
metallurgy department to cancel 
its open house this year.
Mike McGinnis, senior metal
lurgist and chairman of the open 
house committee, said that the de
partment didnt wish to put on a 
display inferior to last years pro
gram because of a lack of space 
and less available machinery.
Shopping Can Be Fun 
And Refreshing, Too
Plus U State Tax
Ask for it either way... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
hall will look when it is completed, 
this week.
Work begins on the new wing
   -r -T-Expansion Of Classroom Space 
Brings On Departmental Moves
By Charles Vaughn
Departmental moving and rearrangement will take place on a 
large scale between now and the beginning of the fall semester as 
a result of reconversion and the utilization of idle space.
The plans being followed came out of the efforts of the space 
---------------------------------------------------? committee which sought to alle
viate crowded conditions. The imBOTTIED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Y 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
l 1W# Ttk Coca-Cofa Compowy
OnTheCIT
Calendar
April 1Literature lecture: 
The Flowering of Van Wyck 
Brooks, Earl R. Swank, speaker, 
MM 103, 3:30 p. m.
April 2Student Council dance, 
mens gym, 8:30 p. m. (story p. 1). 
April 4History seminar: Profes
sor Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky of 
the University of Michigan, speak
er, MM recreation hall, 8 p. m. 
(story p. 10).
Literature lecture: James Joyce, 
20th Century Rebel, Erwin R. 
Steinberg, speaker, YMHA, 8:15 
p. m.April 6New chemical prod
ucts preview: Miss Arretta Lynch 
Watts, speaker, MM assembly hall, 
3:30 p. m. (story p. 3).
April 8Midsemester grades 
due.
Easter vacation begins, 5:30 p. m.
April 19Classes resume, 8:30 
a. m.
April 22Greek Sing, Soldiers 
and Sailors Memorial, 7:45 p. m. 
(story p. 3).
April 23Greek Swing, mens 
gym, 9 p. m. (story p. 3).
Open House
[Continued from page 2] 
would be restricted to Carnegie 
freshmen, and no outside persons 
would be admitted.
Organizing this project is a big 
job, emphasizes Franz, For there 
is a great deal of work to it, and 
the students who concern them
selves with it must be sold on its 
purpose and really interested in 
doing a good job.
One way to organize the Open 
House, thought Franz, might be 
to have one of the class organiza 
tions, proposed to Student Coun
cil last week by Jack Johnson, 
take over the responsibility of 
organizing and planning the proj
ect.All-School Unity Aided
Johnson heartily concurred. 
This project, said he, seems 
perfectly tailored to the possibili
ties of class organizations. The 
administration of such a project 
both requires and will help de
velop an all-schol unity of pur
pose.However, Franz opined, any 
class organization that undertook 
the job would need full coopera
tion from all the departmental 
student organizations. Thus the 
operation of the Open House 
would be in some way involve 
practically every student in the 
school.
Franz has found that Directors 
Jones, Winchester. Johnstone, and 
Miner are inclined favorably to 
the idea, provided the Open House 
does not include outsiders.
mediate result of the committees 
action is the construction that is 
now under way in the two lower 
wings of Industries hall where 
the old forge and machine shops 
and foundry are being converted 
to house the civil engineering de
partment.
Work of Mr. Miller
The plans and specifications for 
the project were drawn up at 
Tech under the direction of Mr. 
Miller, assistant controller, opera
tions and the work is being done 
by his department. The founda
tions in one wing have already 
been laid to accommoate the 
equipment, and two new floors 
will be built in each wing to pro
vide adequate space for the civil 
engineering department which 
will completely move out of En
gineering Hall to occupy its new 
quarters.
The space vacated by the civil 
engineering department will be 
mainly allotted to the metallurgy 
department which will in turn 
move from the upper wing in En
gineering hall to consolidate its 
new space. The physics, chemistry, 
and chemical engineering depart
ments are to be given the remain
ing space.
All Departments Move
Part of the equipment from the 
civil engineering department has 
already been moved and is wait
ing to be installed in its new lo
cation. Barring unforseen difficul
ties, the civil engineering depart 
ment will occupy its new quarters 
by the fall semester.
Each department in turn is 
scheduled to move into its allotted 
space as it is vacated. Mr. Miller 
also said that plans have been 
worked out so that the changes 
will take place smoothly without 
interrupting classes.
By Chemistry Divisions
By Charles 'Vaughn
At last Carnegies campus will 
really start to resemble the famil
iar scale model in Administration 
hall.Now that costs have dropped 
enough to permit immediate con
struction of a million dollar addi
tion to Engineering Hall, the 
schedule calls for completion of 
the new wing by the fall of 1950. 
Most of the space is to be utilized 
by the chemistry and chemical en
gineering departments.
Major Charles B. Stanton, pro
fessor in the civil engineering de
partment and special contracts 
officer, is directing the work on 
the new building.
Although the immediate plans 
were drawn up two years ago, the 
over-all plan for Engineering hall 
was formulated when the original 
buildings were constructed.
Prices Too High
During and immediately follow
ing the war, expansion was con
templated, but prices were too 
high.
Since costs have now decreased 
sufficiently, and need for the 
space has not, it has been decided 
to go ahead with the project. Re
quests for bids on the work were 
sent out early in February and 
were returned three weeks ago 
with the lowest of seven bidders 
being Edward Crump, Inc., which
Juilliard Quartet 
Presents Concert 
Here On April 4
On Monday, April 4, the Julli 
ard^ String quartet will present a 
concert at 8:30 p. m. in the Car
negie theatre. The quartet, com
posed of four distinguished artists 
of the music world, will be spon
sored by the International So 
ciety for Contemporary Music.
Mondays program will include 
Schumans Quartet No. 3, Bergs 
Lyric Suite, and Bartoks 
Fourth Quartet.
Members of the CIT music de 
partment who are officers in the 
Pittsburgh chapter of the Contem
porary Music Society include 
Frederick Dorian, chairman; 
Charles H. Pearson; and Nikolai 
Lopatnikoff.
Maj. Charles B. Stanton
also had the contract for the alter
ations to Morewood Gardens. The 
official figures indicate that the 
construction will cost $915,000 and 
the furnishings $125,000 more; the 
money will come from the build
ing fund.
Work Begins
Preliminary work for the new 
building, technically known as 
NE, begins early this week, when 
the west branch of the Y in the 
path along the Cut will be closed, 
the trees along the embankment 
cut down, and the area inside the 
**Y used to store materials and 
equipment.
Mr. Crump stated that the noisy 
work, the riveting and that of a 
structural nature, is scheduled to 
be carried out during the summer 
months.
The campus will not be marred 
by any trucks making ruts or 
spilling earth around,, for arrange
ments are being worked out with 
the Bureau of Mines for taking 
the dirt out around the back of 
Engineering hall.
Will Close Walk
Mr. Crump, who graduated from 
the architecture department in 
1912, echoed Mr. Millers words in 
saying that the construction will 
not affect the arrangements made 
for Spring Carnival.
The only changes affecting the 
student body at that time will be 
the closed section of walk, and 
possibly the portion of Margaret 
Morrison street beside the Senior 
Fence which will be used to store 
equipment.
The construction just beginning 
is the first major addition since 
the gymnasium was built in 1924. 
When asked if any more building 
would be started after the comple
tion of NE, Mr. Miller said that 
although nothing is definite, the 
next building would probably be 
the new School of Industrial Ad
ministration.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949
After Taking Cage Crown
By Bruce Updike
An exciting intramural 
ball season came to an 
close last Friday night w
34. In the second playoff gai 
Architects whipped the TX 
29.
Lead Changes Hands
The final game was a ni 
tuck battle all the way. At tl 
of the first period the Arc 
led 11-6. During the second
Paul Offermann's
Vogan Presents PlanSporseope r Creale Sensih,eintramural Program
Just how important is a schools athletic program in the 
development of the student? Ever since the University of Chi
cago went off the deep end and dropped all inter-collegiate 
competition this question has assumed major proportions in 
the development of collegiate curricula around the country.
Although most schools have poured millions of dollars 
into huge intercollegiate as well as intramural programs in the 
firm conviction that it is just as necessary a part of educa
tion as the regular course of studies, Carnegie Tech took 
startling and very indifferent stand on the subject last year. 
At that time the students were told, in effect, that they could 
take or leave the intercollegiate athletic program that is 
in existence.
IM in spotlight againThe opinion that all is not right 
with the intramural setup at Carnegie was reflected once more 
last week when an ODK project by Joe Vogair was presented. 
Vogan, following a complete investigation of the intramural 
operation at Carnegie, made the following recommendations 
for improvement:
I) Separate the teams into fraternity and indepen
dent leagues, with the individual champions meeting for 
the school championship. This system has been satisfac
torily used in college throughout the country, Pitt and 
Bethany being two good district examples.
2) Instruct each organization which enters teams in com
petition to post a list of members of the organization in the 
fall.
3) Allow each team one postponement in each sport 
without the consent of the other team, providing 24 hour 
notice is given. This would exclude playoff games.
4) Eliminate, or restrict, the unlimited power to fine a 
team as stated in Article X, Section 6.
5) Institute a referee rating after each game similar 
to the sportsmanship rating now in effect. The rating 
sheets would be filled out by the team captains immediately 
following each game. The referee with the highest rating 
at the end of the season would be presented with an award 
such as a trophy or plaque. This rating would also deter
mine the playoff officials.
6) Clearly define and adhere to the constitution.
7) Allow only the Intramural board to decide what 
sports shall be added to or dropped from the sports caldar.
8) Require all members of the Intramural board to pass 
a test on the Intramural constitution before being allowed to 
sit on the board.9) Require the Intramural board to appoint a statisti
cian to keep an up-to-date account of all individual as well 
as team records. A nominal monthly pay should be pro
vided for the appointee.
10) Require the Intramural office to provide the Tartan 
with official sports entry dates and schedules in time to be 
published before they become effective. Also, the Tartan should 
be required to publish all such official notices.
II) Bar any man who has won a letter in a varsity 
sport at Carnegie Tech from participation in that sport in 
the intramural program, UNLESS his eligibility has ex
pired.
Whats in a nameCarnegie Techs basketball Tartans 
drew an estimated 35,000 people on the road, and only ap
proximately 16,000 at home. Just as in football, Carnegie still 
enjoys its famous name in the world of sportsestablished, two 
decades ago. Only the home town fans have seemed to catch 
on in the past ten years.
Scouting???Mel Cratsley, the Tartans new basketball 
coach, was an interested spectator at the championship play
off game between the Freshmen Architects and TNT B last 
Friday night. Might be he was thinking that some fellows by 
the name of Thompson, Reck, and Chotiner would look good 
in varsity suits next year.
How comeThe Duquesne Dukes, who were so decisively 
defeated by the Carnegie rifle team last month, walked off with 
all the honors in both the sectional and national William Ran
dolph Hearst postal matches? _____
SPRING OPENING SPECIAL
For A Limited Time Only
SWEATERS 10*
if brought in with any other garment. 
Cash and Carry
t Hr. Rough Dry Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes StreetMUseum 1288
Sigma Nil Wins 
Bowling Title
Schwendner Captures 
Victory For Keglers
A double strike by Ed Schwender in the final frame of the last 
game gave the Sigma Nu keglers 
a thrilling three-pin victory over 
Theta Xi in the playoff for the 
school championship last Satur
day.
The TXs, Strike league champs, 
were leading the Sigma Nu entry 
from the Spare league throughout 
the match until Schwenders de
ciding game.
Sigma Nus Harold Noelker led 
the scoring for both five man 
teams with a total of 502 for the 
three games bowled. Pastrick of 
Sigma Nu turned in the high 
game fo the day as he finished 
with a 205 score. Eisemann and 
Tritle led the scoring for Theta 
Xi with total scores of 494 and 
492 respectively.
Bowling Title Match
SIGMA NU | THETA XiTotal! Total1. Snoyer ........442| 1. Bloom ...........4652. Noelker ...,502|2. Madden .........4353. Huebel ........440|3. Eisemann ...4944. Pasterick ....485]4. Benner .........4775. Schwendner .49815. Tritle ............493
THE WINNAHS! The Freshmen 
Architects, winners of the Intra
mural basketball championship, 
pictured after defeating TNT B 38- 
34 last, Friday night. Kneeling, left 
to right, Thompson, Chotiner, and 
Bushey. Standing, Reck, Burt, and 
Hess.
IN THE AIR! Winklmann, The
ta Xis star forward, gets away up 
in the air to make this shot against 
TNT B in their game last Tuesday. 
The shot was good. Despite Winklmanns 20 points, the TXs went 
down to defeat.
Presenting Th Top Intramural 
Basketball Players Of 1949
Two Freshmen Architects Make First Team; 
Only 20 Of Possible 45 Ballots Returned 
Results Of The Tartan Poll
ForwardForwardCenterGuardGuard
First TeamGordon, Big Five Motter, Kappa Sig Thompson, Fr. Arch. Katselas, TNT B Chotiner, Fr. Arch.
Second Team Third TeamReck, Fr. Arch. Winkleman, Theta XiStovicek, Kappa Sig Armour, PiKAWilliamson, Big Five Bianchi, Phi KappaPerlman, TNT B Gillen, Beta No. 1Emmer, Stan. Steam. De Jean, Stan. Steam.Honorable MentionASCE (Bouska); Betas (Brinton, Johnson, Kaufman, Kirby); Beta Sig (Latterman); Big Five (Donato); Citcom (Butler, McCoy, Muttart);Delta Upsilon (Ball, Kessel, Koch); Emanon (Barr, Becker, Cronin, Utzig, Witt);Freshmen Architects (Burt, Bushey); Kappa Sigma (Burk, Dougherty, Hood); Pi Kappa Alpha (Anderson, Heiles, Johnson, Yarian); S.A.E. (Butts, Klingensmith, Trilli); Scobell (Schoeffler); Stanley Steamers (Pavlick); TNT A (Fastura,
Two members of the champion Freshmen Architects earned places 
on the Tartans 1949 All-Intramural basketball team. Although 
only 20 ballots were received from the 45 eligible to vote, all of the 
first team members were selected on at least half of the ballotfe.
Ronnie Thompson, the Archi-#----------------------------------------------------
tects high-scoring forward, and 
Tasso Katselas, TNT Bs flashy 
guard, led the vote-getters by 
huge margins. By virtue of the
12 first team votes he received on
13 ballots, Thompson garnered 62
points against Katselas 61. Five 
points were given for first team
votes, three for second, and one 
for third.
The three other positions on the 
first team were filled by John 
Gordon, Big Five; Gerry Choti
ner, Freshmen Architects; and 
Frank Motter, Kappa Sigma. Both 
Gordon and Motter were their 
respective team spark plugs in 
scoring; Chotiner, the smallest 
man to compete in IM basketball 
this season, was the floor leader
of the Architects.
The lack of any center with 
enough votes resulted in three 
forwards being named to the first 
team, Thompson being placed in 
the center slot. The second team 
was reversed in this problem, as 
three centers were selected for 
the team.
Foul Shooting Schedule
Tuesday, March 297 p. m.Beta Sigma Rho, Sigma Nu, Kappa Sigma, Delta Tau Delta8 p. m.Stanley Steamers, Delta Upsilon, Beta Theta Pi, Tau Delta Phi.Wednesday7 p. m.Emanon, Phi Kappa B, Phi Kappa "A, Citcom 8 p. m.Pi Kappa Alpha, Theta Xi.ThursdayFive teams with highest 
totals will compete in finals7 p. m.
Thompson Paces 
Frosh Outfit 
To Exciting Win
basketexciting 
when the 
Freshman Architects dropped 
TNT, 38-34, for the championship.
The TNTs had previously beat
en the TXs in the first playoff 36- 
playoff game the 
>ed the TXs 35-
a nip and 
At the end 
Architects 
second quar
ter the TNT five outscored their 
opponents and closed the gap to 
17-16, with the Architects still 
leading. The end of the third quar
ter found the lead reversed with 
the TNTs in front 25-24.
The freshmen came booming 
back into the lead at the begin
ning of the last quarter with a 
goal by Chotiner, two completed 
foul shots by Reck, and a goal by 
Burt. Katselas countered with a 
long shot from mid-court and 
Perelman followed up with a shot 
from jhe side of the court.
Trade Scores 
With three minutes to go the 
FAs lead with 31-29. Katselas 
dropped another shot from mid
court for TNT to tie the score. 
Then Thompson scored a foul shot 
goal for the Archifoul and Katselas 
in a long shot to 
the game. Reck re
ball for the FAs and 
on a lay-up to give 
the frosh a 36-34 lead with one 
minute to go.
Score  Clincher 
The Architects tightened theit 
defense and held the TNTs at bay. 
On a recovery from the TNT 
board Burt went the length of 
th floor to make the last score of 
game. Final score38-34. in 
favor of the Frosh Architects.
Mike Theodore and Jack Riehl 
did the officiating.
Summary
Frosh ArchFG F TP Thompson 5 4 14Burt Reck Bushey Chotiner Hess
TOTALS 12 14Halftime scor< 17; TNT 16. FROSH ARCH FG FThompson 3 4Burt 3 2Reck 5 1Chotiner 1 1Bushey 1 1Hess 0 0
TNTFG F TP Fitzgerald 0 0 0JenkinsPerlmanJoheBorellisKatselasBeruh
381 TOTALS 15 4 34 >Freshmen Architects
THETA Xi
Matthews Lunt Leighton Koos Yorkison Boyd Lee Oxley
FG F TP 113
Christopher 01 13 0 0
TOTALS *13 9 35 TOTALS 12 5 29 Halftime scoreFreshmen Architects 18; Theta Xi 22.
Soccer Teams 
Begin Season
Intramural soccer competition 
began last Monday with seven 
teams competing in the American 
league and six teams in the Na
tional league.
Any students who may be in
terested in acting as soccer of
ficials have been asked by Mr. See 
to turn their names in to the In
tramural office.
Soccer Schedule
Tuesday, March 29TX vs. Betas, Field No. 1; PiKA vs. Kappa Sigs, Field No. 2; Phi Kaps vs. Sigma Nu, Field No. 3.
WednesdayStanley Steamers vs. Tau Delts, Field No. 1; Emanon vs. Betas, Field No. 2; Citcom vs. Kappa Sigs, Field No. 3.ThursdayATO vs. PiKA, Field No. 1; DU vs. Tau Delts, Field No. 2; TX vs. Stanley Steamers, Field No. -3.FridayKappa Sigs vs. Delts, Field No. 1; Phi Kaps vs. PiKA, Field No. 2; Emanon vs. Tau Delts, Field No. 3.MondayBetas vs. Stanley Steamers, Field No. 1; Citcom vs. ATO, Field No. 2; Sigma Nu vs. PiKA, Field No. 3.Tuesday, April 9DU vs. TX, Field No. 1; Emanon vs. Stanley Steamers, Field No. 2; Delts vs. ATO, Field No. 3.Field No. 1nearest Forbes Street; Field No. 2nearest FPHA; Field No. 3 Girls Hockey Field on the cut. All games begin at 4:40 p. m.
Architects Win IM Basketball Crown

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30. 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Signs of Spring: Football Practice
LIKE THIS! Assistant football coach Eddie Hirshberg gives a 
few pointers to tackle Gerry Meyers, captain of last years squad. 
Fifty-two candidates greeted the new football coaches for spring 
drills last week.* * * * * *
Baker Starts Football Practice 
With 29 Veterans, 23 Recruits
Instruction Started On Winged-T Basic Plays; 
Sommer, Holtz Tried In Quarterback Slot
Twenty-nine veterans from last years squad were among the 
52 candidates that greeted Dr. Eddie Baker, Carnegies new foot
ball coach, as spring practice got under way last week.
Doc Baker, and his assistants, Ed Hirshberg and A1 Irwin, started 
the aspiring Tartan gridders in on4 
the fundamentals of their new 
offense, the winged-T. The first 
day was spent in outlining the 
basic plays of the system. On al
ternating days the footballers 
have been running through plays 
in the gymnasium.
Baker employed Bobby Sommer 
and Quent Holtz in the quarter
back slot on the first day of run
ning plays. Sommer and Holtz, 
both veterans of last years squad, 
are regarded as the two best pass
ers on the team.
Among the veterans back from 
last years eleven were firststring halfbacks Nick Simcic and 
Johnny Luchok; tackles Gerry 
Meyers' and Norm Keats; guards 
Floyd Wiseman and Larry Stovicek; Fritz Wilson, end, and cen
ter John Windish.
The effect on the morale of the 
student body of the change in 
coaches was reflected by the turn
out of eleven sophomore and jun
iors who were never out for footbell before.
Intramural 
Rifle Teams 
To Compete
Intramural rifle team competi
tion, sponsored by Scabbard and 
Blade, begins Friday, April 1 
with fourteen teams competing 
for the championship.
All matches will be on the rifle 
range in Margaret Morrison col
lege, with low teams eliminated at 
each meet until the winning team 
is determined on April 21.
Each team consists of four stu
dents. A man may shoot for only 
one intramural squad and no var
sity letter riflemen may compete.
Each man will shoot ten rounds 
in the prone, kneeling and stand
ing positions. In case of ties, high 
total in the standing position will 
determine the winner.
Rifles will be supplied by the 
school, but a firer may use his 
own provided it has peep rear 
and post or blade front sights.
Intramural Rifle
Friday, April 1, 4:45 p. m.: Beta Theta Pi No. 1, Delta Tau Delta, FPHA No. 1, Alpha Tau Omega No. 1, Citcom Clan, Delta Upsilon, Beta Sigma Rho No. 1.Monday, April 4, 4:45 p. m.: Phi Kappa, Sigma Nu, Theta Xi, Beta Theta Pi No. 2, FPHA No. 2, Alpha Tau Omega No. 2, Phi Kappa No. 2.Wednesday, April 6, 4:45 p. m.: 4 high teams of April 1, 4 high teams of April 4.Tuesday, April 19, 4:45 p. m.: 4 high teams of April 6.Thursday, April 21, 4:45 p. m.: 2high teams of April 19.
Emanon Holds Big All-Points 
Lead Despite Recent Setbacks
TX Trails In Race; 
Fights To Keep Cup
A powerful Emanon organiza
tion maintained a substantial 441 
point lead over their closest com
petitors, Theta Xi, in the cur
rent all-points trqphy race despite 
recent setbacks in basketball and 
bowling.
The TXs, who fought their way 
to league titles in both sports in 
an effort to retain the trophy, 
were stopped in their bids for 
campus championships twice last 
week.
Sigma Nu Moves
Sigma Nu, whlcn checked 
Emanons drive when they swept 
to a league title in bowling this 
month, evened matters on Satur
day by edging past the TXs by 
three pins in the all-campus finale. 
In doing so, the Sigma Nus also 
crept ahead of the PiKAs to take 
over fifth spot in the standings.
The leading fraternitys basket
ball hopes, however, were shat
tered by two independent organi
zations, TNT B and the Freshman 
Architects, both of which down
ed the TXs in playoff games dur
ing the week.
Kappa Sigs Advance
Kappa Sigma, finishing as 
league runner-up to the champion 
Architects, closed the gap be
tween themselves and the TNT
A team in the battle for third 
place.
This weeks schedule calls for a 
table tennis playoff between the 
two league winners, Emanon and 
Theta Xi, in a contest which might 
well decide the final outcome of 
the race. An independent victory 
would practically eliminate any 
hope of stopping the current lead
ers.
All-Points Standing
TeamPoints
1.___1344
2.___ 903.5
3.___840
4.Kappa Sigma "A ..........___756
5.___690
6.___686
7.Beta Thet* Pi No. 1 . .___ 528
8.___505
9.___ 483
10.Sigma Alpha Epsilon . .___ 462.5
11.12.Alpha Tau Omega ............___450
13.___430
14.___395
15.Freshman Architects___ 350
16.___ 33517.TNT B ........................___32518.___300
19.Beta Theta Pi No. 2 . .___27520.ASCE ....................................___ 180
21.___ 18022.23.___ 13024.___ 11025.26.27.28.Kappa Sigma B ..........___ 8029.30.___ 7031.32.33.34.35.36.6/Jk, & POSTGRADUATE-----------IN
Over end Issues
First Call For 
Spring Sports
With the coming of warm 
weather, the spring sports, golf, 
tennis, and track, begin to swing 
into action.
Coach Overend called his first 
meeting of the golf team on Mon
day, but without any practice it is 
as yet undetermined who will be 
prospects for this years varsity. 
There are still some boys back 
from last years squad who will be 
^ the backbone of the team.
Tennis Call Delayed 
Coach Moses has made no gen
eral call for the tennis team be
cause of the handicap imposed by 
lack of tennis courts. Making use 
of what is available, Montstream, 
Bassett and McConnell, all lettermen back from last years squad, 
have been practicing whenever 
possible. Anyone interested should 
contact Coach Moses in the gym.
On the other side of the pic
ture, the track team is entering 
its final week of intensified work. 
On Saturday, April 9, the team 
will enter its final competitive 
meet, with the Jeannette Harriers, 
a team above average on the cinders.
After returning from vacation, 
a trial will be held April 20 in all 
events. Coach Hafferty will then 
select his final varsity. Individual 
status is still undetermined, but 
the team appears strong in all 
running events.
PLUS ANIMPORTANT *4000-A-YEAR ASSIGNMENT
A special interviewing team will be on campus to tell 
you more about it and to give preliminary qualifying 
examinations. Stop in after class and talk it over with 
the pilots themselves.
If you wish, you may sign up now and finish your 
schooling before starting your training.
HERE ARE THE REQUIREMENTS:
You must be a male citizen, between 20 and 26*4 years old, phy
sically sound, and have at least two years of college (or be able 
to pass the equivalent examination administered by the inter
viewing team). Both single and married inen may now apply,
KMAMei KMAM 64 O4 t4A IM6N-Tih
(Date) March 31, April 1 
(Time) 9:20 A. M. to 4:40 P. M. 
(Place) IH 238, 253A 
(Make Appointments in Placement Office 
IH155A)
INTERVIEWING TEAM 
COMING SOON!
Few opportunities open to college upperclassmen can 
match this one! Here s a chance to get both flying and 
executive experience with the worlds leader in Aviation 
the U. S. Air Force.
wf you can qualify, you join a select group of college 
men for 52 weeks Aviation Cadet-Pilot Trainingwith pay.
When you complete the course, you get your wings 
and a commission in the Air Force Reserve : : : up to 
$336 a month pay : : : a vitally important 3-year assign
ment as pilot with a crack Air Force squadron.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949
MOW MILD CAN A CIGARETTE 6 ? 
WELL, SKITCH. THE CAMEL 30-DAy 
TEST CONVINCED ME THAT CAMELS 
ARE THE MILDEST CIGARETTE
AMT TNT. 6-40TFY
Ooe ot 
wttb a sock
derson is ; 
tavotite. t
oog
re tnld
SMOKE
Carnegie Tech Bowling Team 
Runner-up In Tenpin Tourney
Competing with entries from eighteen other district colleges, 
Carnegie Techs bowling team placed second in the Western Penn
sylvania Intercollegiate Tenpin Championship last Friday and Sat
urday at Slippery Rock. ?------------------------------------------------------
Gannon College from Erie took Mei'maUls Compete 
first and third places, their num*
ber one team knocking over 2486 
pins, 57 more than the Tartans 
total of 2429.
Howard Etzel, a graduate stu
dent at Carnegie wh~ bowled for 
Citcom in intramural competition 
this year, rolled the single game 
high of 222.
Joe Cerami paced the winning 
Gannon team by knocking over 
600 pins, for the three-game high 
total. Cerami also teamed with 
Frank Borzone to capture the 
two-man high total of 1061.
Competing for the Plaid team 
beside Etzel were Schwendner of 
Sigma Nu, Carey of Emanon,
Johnson of Pi Kappa Alpha,
Weber of Delta Tau Delta, and 
Pastrick of Sigma Nu. These men 
were the top six bowlers in the 
intramural bowling leagues dur
ing the past season.
The Skibo keglers won out over 
such formidable opposition as Pitt,
Duquesne, Westminster, Geneva,
W & J, St. Francis, and Waynesburg.
SnS Creu s
Students interested in work
ing on the productions crews of 
Scotch and Sodas Molecule 
Man are requested to be at a 
production meeting to be held 
on March 30 at 4 p. m., in the 
Carnegie theater.
Crews are needed for carpen
try, props, painting, sound, 
lighting, and costumes.
Above, reading left to right, are 
Nancy Godden, Barbara Rautenberg, Joan Gularski, and Betina 
Butts, members of the Tarquins 
the Carnegie Tech womens swim
ming team. The girls posed for 
this shot shortly after losing a 
close meet to Pitt's female swim
mers last Saturday in the Skibo 
pool. The final score was Pitt 57, 
Tech 52. At no time until the final 
event had been run was Pitt cer
tain of victory.
Miss Betina Butts was the indi
vidual star for the Tech team, 
placing second in the hard fought 
50 yd. breast stroke, first in the 
75 yd. individual medley, and tak
ing a first and second in the back 
stroke and breast stroke form 
events, respectively.
Misses Cuddebak, Cole, and 
Votz, were the high scorers for 
the Pitt team, each netting two 
individual firsts besides placing 
on the winning relay teams.
Matmen Score 
In AAV Meet
Horsch Loses in Finals; 
Bob Pratt Also Scores
Grapplers from Carnegie took 
the fourth place spot in the Alle
gheny Mountain division of the 
junior AAU championships at the 
downtown Y last Saturday.
Winning a total of four points, 
the Plaid matmen finished behind 
Waynesburg, Farrell Merchants, 
and Munhall. Three of the Skibos 
points were won by Bob Horsch in 
the 128 pound class and the other 
by Bob Pratt in the 155 pound 
class.
Horsch took three victories 
which brought him into the final 
for his event where he was defeat
ed by Kuzaer of Waynesburg. Two 
of his points came from taking 
second place in the event and 
one for winning a fall.
Pratt, after winning two 
matches and taking one point on a 
fall, lost to Barno of Waynesburg 
in his semi-final match.
Student Council
[Continued from page 1] 
three to five.
He also recommended that men 
receive five points and women 
three points for work on the 
alumni and homecoming commit
tees. These suggestions were pass
ed by Council although not with
out comment from some members.
John Engle suggested that 
members of the student-faculty 
liaison committee, the scholastic 
honorary society, and the Dorm 
Bagpiper also receive points.
Fondrk Questions
He criticized the policy of alloting points to social organiza
tions such as fraternities and Cit
com Clan.
In support of Engle, John 
Fondrk later said, I question the 
value of giving points to individ
uals for participation in activi
ties which are beneficial to that 
individual only and not to the 
school directly. The question was
Third Original 
Play Presented
Across Big Mountain 
Begins Late In April
Immediately following vacation, 
the third original play of the year 
will be presented .n the Carnegie 
Theatre. Across Big Mountain, 
written by graduate student Bert 
Pollock, is a tale of an old judge 
who attempts to start a small 
school for the hill children of 
Kentucky: it is a play of character 
and mood.
Mr. Henry Boettcher will di
rect the play assisted by Bob 
Nathe. Playing the role of the 
struggling judge in a double cast 
lead will be Robert Reynolds and 
William Ross.
The complete cast is as follows: 
Ray Tudor, Bill Clark (Gethro); 
Helen Finlay, Dottie Kay (Katey); 
Bernard Bogin, Clinton Roberts 
(Isaiah); Emily Kidwell, Angela 
Payton (Polly); Allan Oppenheimer, John Bishop (Allan). 
Across Big Mountain will open 
April 26; announcements of ticket 
issue will be posted soon after va
cation.
referred to the bylaws committee.
John Engles proposed amend
ment for the establishment of an 
arbitration board to settle disputes 
which may arise in the interpreta
tion of the constitution and Tom 
Sedgwicks proposed students Bill 
of Rights will be thrown open for 
discussion this week.
Fight Looms
Both items are highly contro
versial and will provoke verbal 
action on both side of the ques
tion.
Dorothy Gillan moved that pos
ters be put up in Skibo requesting 
students not to play cards from 
11:30 to 1:30 and stating that 
there is space provided in the Inn 
for that purpose. This action was 
taken to help alleviate some of the 
congestion in Skibo during the 
lunch hours.
Special Lenten Service 
Set For Friday Night
At a special Lenten service to 
be held Friday evening at 8 p. m., 
the CIT Christian fellowship will 
be host to similar groups from 
other colleges in the Pittsburgh 
area.
The speaker of the evening is 
the Rev. Luther P. Fincke, a new
comer to Pittsburgh and pastor of 
the Point Breeze Presbyterian 
church. He is a graduate of Wil
liams college. His broad experi
ence in student circles well quali
fies him as a speaker.
Uinard JStudio 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry 
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 415
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the Collere 
District
5808 Fortes Street. Squirrel HHI 
3714 Forbes Street Oakland 
Mala Pianti 
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
iVe KNOWN that FOR YEARS 
NANCy! AND I GO FOR 
CAMELS FULL,RICH FLAVOR,
O44Y
$NOT ONE SINGLE CASE 
OF THROAT IRRITATION
du to Sitarkcta?
Its real harmony when Skitch 
Henderson and lovely Nancy Reed, his 
featured vocalist, get together and 
sing the praises of Camel mildness.
Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, you are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette youve ever smoked, return the pack
age with the unused Camels and we will refund its full purchase price, plus post
age. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds T obacco Com
pany, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

---------------------------------------------------

Every TSite This Week .
A4iM 1CAKR
AMT N. N. Obyo 
Star of Majestic Records
'Mil
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
International Club Members Get 
Chance To6Meet Other People
American students who join CITs International club have a 
chance to meet many interesting foreign studentspeople like Edwin 
Sterling from Belgium, Rointain Bunshab from India, and Jerry 
Chang from China. ?---------------------------------------------------
When he isnt busy working in 
the coal research lab here at Car
negie Tech, Sterling studies 
about people. Of Americans, he 
says, I am not interested in the 
superficial things about Ameri
cans. I want to know about how 
they live, and especially, I want to 
know them as individuals, as peo
ple.
No Time to Paint
He has read a great many books 
on different races, and has even 
given lectures on international 
brotherhood. This is really ali.he 
has time for. He would like to re
treat to the woods and paint, but 
he doesnt have the opportunity.
M.MA6 AMN-Ai
KAO 108. PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
6-4T0 -FY imyHbdm
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4811
Bring Your Radio ylEomks 
6l FBs
SS TEARS EXPERIENCE
OR KCI1 6T1inmT
During the war, he studied at 
the University of Belgium, which 
was forced underground by the 
Germans because its ideals were 
undesirable. In spite of the risk 
involved in attending the univer
sity, he managed to get his doc
tors degree.
Though he has traveled through 
Europe, he has never met so many 
different nationalities anywhere as 
he has in the International club 
here at CIT. He really has a 
chance to study people in this 
club. His acquaintances include 
students from Turkey, Mexico, 
Hawaii, Iran, Norway, Africa, and 
twenty other countries.
Meet Other Members
It was through the International 
club that he met Rointain Bun
shab of India and Jerry Chang of 
China. Bunshab is studying for his 
masters degree in metallurgy. He 
came here from the University of 
Benares, the holiest city of In 
dia. Like Edwin Sterling, he 
doesnt have much time, but he 
manages to attend the symphony 
regularly.
Bunshab agrees with Jerry 
Chang that CIT is a nice place, 
but it surely makes you work. 
Studying for a doctors degree 
doesnt give Chang much time to 
play his violin,
Drum Major
Tryouts for a new drum major 
for the Kiltie Band will be held 
to replace Bill Poirer, who is 
graduating this semester.
Anyone who is tall and has 
had some experience in music, 
band formation and drill can 
qualify. Fancy baton twirling is 
not a necessary qualification. 
All apopintments for tryouts 
should be made with Mr. 
Schaefer at the music depart
ment.
Debaters Go To 
Grand National 
Debate Tourney
Traveling to Mary Washington 
college in Fredericksburg, Vir
ginia, the Debate club will repre
sent CIT in the Grand National 
debate tournament on April 14, 
15, and 16. Schools from all over 
the country will be represented 
in the tournament.
The participants will live on 
the campus throughout the tour
nament and various social activi
ties will be scheduled for them.
The club participated in prac
tice sessions with Mt. Mercy on 
March 22, and four debaters en
tered a debate this last weekend 
at Washington and Jefferson col
lege.
On March 29 the club will go 
to St. Vincents and, on April 7, 
to Seton HilL
HE HAS BUILT A BRAND NEW CITY
The telephone man" is mighty busy these days!
Since the war, among many other things, he has built 
or enlarged 2,800 buildings .. . scores of them large 
enough to fit into the skyline of a modern metropolis.
These buildings are more than brick, mortar and tele
phone equipment. They are jobs for thousands of men 
and women    more and better telephone service for 
millions of people . . . more business for the towns and 
cities in which they are located.
But most important of all, they are an indication of 
the Bell Systems earnest efforts to keep up with the 
nations ever growing needs for communications service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Kiltie Band Prepares Concert; 
Attends College Music Festival
Set Band Concert 
Date As April 28
Featuring both modern and 
classical selections, Carnegies Kil
tie orchestra, under the direction 
of William Schaefer, will present 
its second formal concert of the 
year bn April 28 at 8:15 p. m. in 
the Carnegie Music hall.
Opening with a procession of 
Kiltie bagpipers, the program will 
include works of composers rang
ing from Wagner to Morton Gould. 
Choice of music for the program 
has been based, in part, on the 
popular reception accorded that 
of the first concert, present on 
January 14.
Included in the program are 
Man of the Hour, by Fillmore; 
finale from Symphony in E-fiat, 
by Saint-Sans; English FolkSong Suite, by Vaughn Williams; 
Escapada, by Phillips; Sieg
fried Rhine Journey from Gt
terdmmerung, by Wagner; polka 
and fugue from Schwanda, by 
Weinberger; Pavanne, by Mor
ton Gould; Russian Sailors 
Dance, by Gliere; finale from 
Symphony V, by Shostakovitch; 
and King Cotton, by Sousa.
Tickets for the concert are 75 
cents and may be obtained in 
Skibo starting April 1.
Eleven Kilities Go 
To Indiana Meet
Joining a combined orchestra 
of 120 students from Pennsylvania 
colleges, eleven members of Car
negie Techs Kiltie band journeyed 
to the Intercollegiate Band Fes
tival held March 24-26 at In
diana State Teachers college, In
diana, Pennsylvania.
Under the direction of composer-conductor Morton Gould, the 
combined orchestra presented two 
concerts and a radio broadcast 
during the three-day meeting.
Attending from CIT, in addi
tion to director William Schaefer, 
were Albert Krasic, Lawrence 
Slaugh, Henry Levine, Paul Gra
ham, William Waller, Charles 
Koester, Ben Benack, Albert Orbell, Dean Streator, Joseph Krysik, 
and James James.
Social Calendar
Social chairmen of groups 
which desire full consideration 
of their requests for dates for 
the school year 1949-50 should 
submit their applications for 
dates through the Dean of 
Womens office to Ted Goodson, 
Student Council social chair
man, before April 6.
is"**. /rMAAtf 
$ Iff  'W A
N6-Supbd *U*D818 LIBERTY AVE.
The ETON 
Style 6358
OWf* STYUS
UVLP W#VLP
Best Catch of the Season is your 
Douglas Tan Blucher Oxford with 
the full double Sole. 
Come in and try on a pair.
W. I. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.,BROCKTON t$. MASS.
205 FIFTH AYE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY) 
1203 MARKET ST., WHEELING

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, .1949
tch'tchh DIO think she was 
SO CHARMING... AND NOW MY NEW SECRETARY IS ACTING LIKE (A PERFECT PTERODACTYL/
112
CECILE, DEAR. YOU'LL NEVER. 
MAKE THE PROFESSOR. LIKE YOU,IF YOU START OUT ACTING LIKE A MEAN OLD VIRAGO
I DON'T CARE IF I DO FLUNKi.. 
PROFESSOR MOELLER IS TOO PUSSY FOR WORDS.. ME JUST 
DRIVES ME WILD I
O, I FEEL so IRRITABLE  
COULD SNAP HIS HEAD OFF! MY, 
THROAT FEELS/ 
RASPY AND 
DRY FROM = _ SMOKJNGSO k^MUCH.TOO
OH DEAR? WHAT A 1 6MA1NON06 OUR STAR BUSINESS COURSE j PUPIL, CECILE, IS/
0-0F-ONAM66M KN0O4YMAB
/youVE GOT \ CIGARETTE 
HANGOVER/
WHY NOT 
SWITCH 
TO K-T14AA-i
AND ENJOY ( 
YOUR SMOKING*-
r NOBODY'S ^ NAGGING YOU, PET. WE WANT TO 
HELP YOU CLICK 
AS N6YF440Mii 
WITH OUR NICE PROF. (THINK 
JOHNNY HAS A .GOOD IDEA
AN MF4i-Ni6-FCHANGE, IN DEED 
THANKS TO 
K-T14AA-iBBEHOLD OUR 
FORMER OFFICE CRONE IS , 
NOW A 1 
VERITABLE^ ERATO/ V THAT'S^ RIGHT, 
CECILE / PHIUP 
MORRIG IS THE 0/V CIGARETTE PROVED DEFINITELY
RT66 A..AOKOACI1
PLEASE LISTEN DEARWELL. I'LL GIVE 
'EM A TRY
THANK YOU DEAN, FOR SAYING] 
I PROFESSOR MOELLER HAD 1 i SUCH A NICE SECRETARY t
PHILIP MORRIS HAS 
CERTAINLY WORKED 
WONDERS FOR CECILE
Modern Mother Goose 
Wins Cup For Frosh
By Nancy Sitler
After weeks of writing and rehearsing, the Freshman Maggie 
Murphs entered the Margaret Morrison skit competition and won 
the gold loving cup award, which will be inscribed with their class 
year and placed in the MMCC library.
Skit night is an annual, even ? 
for which freshmen, sophomores, 
juniors, seniors, and faculty of
East-West Split In Cold War 
To Be Discussed By Russian
Applications For 
Delta Skull Due 
After Vacation
Applications for membership in 
Delta Skull, junior mens activi
ties honorary, will be available to 
second semester sophomore men 
in the Dean of Mens office imme
diately after Easter vacation.
Completed application blanks 
must be returned to the Deans 
office by May 1. The honorary 
will .make its annual call after 
Spring Carnival.
The basis for membership in the 
honorary is participation in cam
pus activities. A minimum of 
forty points, based on Delta 
Skulls point value allotments for 
each years participation in vari
ous activities, is requisite for 
membership consideration. These 
point values are listed on the 
membership application. How
ever, only a maximum of 25 points 
based on freshman year activities 
will be considered.
New Plan
[Continued from page J]
the members ol an effective ad
visory group.
So we decided that the ODK 
membership would make a good 
list from which to start the selec
tion of the kind of people who 
would be best qualified to serve 
in this capacity, but the members 
would not be restricted to ODK 
members.
He emphasized that he was not 
suggesting that ODK take over; 
merely that some of its members 
would have high probability of 
qualifying on the basis of their 
records as members of the group.
Go On Working
At this point Dean Dickinson, 
advisor to ODK, explained that 
ODKs members are chosen not 
only for past achievements and 
prominence, but just as much for 
willingness they show to go on 
working.
The pledge projects that the 
members of ODK undertook this 
year illustrate the interest of the 
members in overall campus prob
lems.
President Doherty pointed out 
that the problem isnt one of sim
ply letting the President carry the 
ball on these problems. It involves 
responsibility and study on the 
part of the students.
Use Activities Library 
The question of how girls might 
be represented on this committee 
was answered by Marie DelliGatti, Pan-Hellenic president. She 
suggested that girls who are most 
active might be selected by ref
erence to the activities library 
W'hich is now being established.
Don Stitt, Inter-fraternity coun
cil president, raised the question 
that there might be less diversi
fication of members on the pro
posed group than there presently 
is on the Student Conference com
mittee.
I am not primarily interested 
in diversity, as such, Dr. Doherty 
answered. The important consid
eration is to get continuity of 
thought on problems that have to 
do with student affairs.
Two-Way Flow 
There must be a two-way 
flow, he v/ent on. Such a group 
should be responsible just as 
much for getting ideas carried out 
as for getting the administration 
to do something it hasnt done be
fore.
He explained that the experi
ment would be given further con
sideration in the next few weeks 
and that he hoped something 
might be done this year to get 
things started.
Try It, Then Adjust
Dr. Doherty emphasized that the 
decision to try another experiment 
in the type of meetings he holds 
with students was not at all a 
criticism of the present group, or 
its predecessors, but rather a 
change dictated by changing con
ditions.
Not all of the elements of the 
present setup are necessarily con
sistent with the problems I see 
that yet remain to be solved.
To find out if something h 
good or bad, we must try it and 
then adjust to the results we get, 
he concluded.
Margaret Morrison prepare fifteen 
minute skits and present them be
fore judges who decide the cup 
winner.
Modern Mother Goose 
On March 22 the freshmen, unj 
der the direction of Dolores 
Mitchell, class president, gave a 
review of Mother Goose rhymes 
set to music. With howls of de
light the audience greeted Humpty Dumpty, played by Nancy Sit
ler, as she bounced over the stage 
to the words of cook me not in 
the frying pan.
Following on Humptys heels 
came Miss Muffet, played by Wil
ma Harrington, who jitterbugged 
gaily with the terrible spider, Kay 
Snure. Cavorting flowers, mis
chievous children, charging sol
diers and rhumbaing cows capered
over the stage to the accompani
ment of applause while the Old 
Woman in the Shoe glared angri
ly at her kiddies popping bubble 
gum and smacking each other.
Depicting the major depart
ments of Margaret Morrison, the 
sophomores presented a words in 
music description of various 
classes.
Setting their skit in the back 
hills of Virginia, the Juniors 
showed CIT with a back country 
following.
Faculty Slays em .
The Senior Class contrasted the 
love affairs of the cave man with 
those of the twentieth century 
Romeo.
A real murder melodrama 
was presented by the faculty.
The skits were judged on orig
inality, effort, and preparation 
time.
History Professor 
To Speak At Seminar
Historical background behind 
the east-west split in the present 
European cold war will be dis
cussed by Andrei Lobanov-Rostovsky, professor of history at 
University of Michigan, at the CIT 
history department seminar on 
April 4, at 8 p. m., in the recrea
tion hall of MMCC.
A former member of the Rus
sian nobility, Prof. Lobanov was 
born in Yokohama, Japan, and 
was educated in Russia a n 
France. He has been lecturing 
and teaching in the United States 
since 1930, however, and has been 
a naturalized citizen of this coun
try since 1936.
He joined the faculty of the 
University of California in 1930 
and remained there until 1945 
when he accepted the appointment 
of professor of history at Michi
gan. Prof. Lobanov has also lec
tured extensively for other uni
versities throughout the country.
During World War I, he served 
with both the Russian and French 
Armies, and after the armistice
Prof. Lobanov-Rostovsky
joined General Denikin in South 
Russia. Prior to coming to this 
country, he was recognized abroad 
as a journalist and lecturer.
Professor Lobanov has written 
several books concerning Europe 
and Asia and is a member oi 
many historical and journalism 
societies.
JOHNNYdbSo6 CECILE ONdrbub OSON,rAK 
AND 06VIAT6 sfSslyK
fUDOK HERE, I DON'T 
KNOW WHY PROFESSOR 
MOELLER BOTHERS 
ME SO MUCH.BUT I WISH 
YOUD ALL STOP 
NAGGING ME
IM-DELIGHTED' 1 
OUR ERSTWHILE 
FMAcMACi HAS BECOME A 
MAMOA-0N6-0O BANNER OF / 
WELCOME/ SHE'S VERY SWEET/ /
t/ere's -f/>eAlora/i9 Co/np/ete Out~7s/e' 
Behind our playful plot, our intentions are serious: we want 
you to discover for yourself the welcome difference in 
cigarettes that PHILIP MORRIS can bring you.
, Established proof of that difference is too extensive to be 
detailed herebut pre-medical and chemistry students, who 
will be especially interested can get it in published form 
FREE, by writing our Research Dept., Philip Morris Co., 
119 Fifth Ave., N. Y. ~
philip MORRIS
Use These Words With Tongue-in-Cheek!
GoSu pl AM 40M !Hmy mm3' 
FMAcMACi GsbygEyrs'56,m p,ymm,mSama Spd,! 
al8 lf KSamsV
F-ONAM66M KN0O4YMA G0mHmy nylulrudm q7- 
Imulrudm bp'56,Sp spSom skl3malrp pSsplv 
p,Sp pb8,p ay fmmobu8 bu lry p,ylSp arm pl 
skl3bu8V
FFIRi-Ni6-F Gm3abmmSspb3' 5 S dlknompm 
spybnnbu8lff of lrpmy dlHmybu8V
(AN64 GmyySppg' 5 1rsm lf wllrs lmpyV 
4cT4/CR GlEEol3mm'5KmSnmarn sdlyu ly 
SErsmV v
4cY-N6M GlEEHmmSp!J5pl 8l Sylrua ly SHlbaV 
MAMOA-0N6-0O GnSbyb8ybuSpbu8' 5 AlHbu8 
SElrpV =
6MA4INF6RT Gpmmyl,aS3pboo'5N nym,bsplybd 
bu8ma obSyaV f 
6MA1NON06 GpmykS8Sup'5N uSsp uS88myV 
6RF440Mii Gpd3llumss'  N ybd, 6bymacrsb 
umsslkSuV f 
Y-ANO4 GHmmyS8l' 5 N s,ym ly dySu3 
fmkSomV

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
contains Viratol
Vaseline
CREAM
HAIR TOMC
new Vaseline cream hair tonic
NewsAndViews
Since this will be the last issue 
of the Plaid for a few weeks we 
would like to top our News and 
Views with a reminder that 
Wednesday, April 6 will be the 
final date for dropping subjects.
Phi Nu, evening schol social 
fraternity, held a benefit square 
dance Saturday, March 26, in 
Thistle hall. This writer can vouch 
for the fact that all those who 
were present had a grand time. 
Now that the ice has been broken 
we expect many more affairs of 
this type for evening students and 
their friends. Incidentally speak
ing of affairs of long standing Phi 
Nu has been active on Carnegie 
Tech evening school campus since 
1916.
Another honor has been be
stowed upon Prof. Glen U. Cleeton, director of evening school 
and director of the school of 
printing. He has been appointed 
one of eight experts serving on 
the selection committee for The 
Best National Advertising of the 
Year. This is the first of a series 
of advertising books reproducing 
from their original plates, in full 
color, about 150 of the best annual 
advertisements.
Dick Van Halanger, chairman 
of the Engineers banquet, sug
gested we jot down a few words of 
enlightenment for the newer stu
dents at evening school. Obvi
ously these fellows are under the 
impression that the Engineers 
banquet is a long drawn-out tech
nical affair and not much fun. Al
though we do not profess to be 
steeped in long experience we 
can say that never in the several 
years that we have attended these 
banquets have we been disap
pointed. From beginning to end 
these affairs have been entertain
ing to the nth degree. If youre in
clined to be skeptical ask any of 
the older students on evening 
school campus and we dare say 
they will all agree that the En
gineers banquet is one you cannot 
afford to miss.
This may not be the appropriate 
time to question the effectiveness 
of Plaid distribution, but never
theless are the papers being placCampus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
TM40NAIei 1M0i iK4
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
AV.W.V
a favorite
Easter Habit!
... for many an Easter, college 
men have favored the fine fit 
and good looks of
AL ABRAMS 
Sports Editor A1 Abrams, of 
the Post-Gazette, will head a 
12-man sports staff when the 
exciting: new Sunday Post-Ga
zette comes out March 27. Now 
known as the districts top 
paper for sports on week days 
the Post-Gazette promises to 
have the best sports section on 
Sunday, too. Abrams, Vince 
Johnson, Outdoors Editor Hal 
Harrison and Red Smith, one 
of the nations best sports 
columnists, will all do special 
features. Besides Inis crackerjack sports section, the Sunday 
Post-Gazette will have more 
pages of comics  headed by 
Dick Tracy and including: a 
free comic book every week 
than any other district Sunday; 
two full color magazines, the 
Tri-State Weekly, and Parade, 
the national picture magazine; 
and many, many more pages of 
featuressome new and others 
already well-known to local 
readers. Dont miss the first 
issue of this wonderful new 
Sunday newspaper March 27. 
Order it from your dealer or 
newspaper boy today!
:i Arrow White Shirts
Both oxfords ond broadcloths in your preferred 
collar styles are now available at your Arrow 
dealer's. See him today for an Arrow white shirt 
and Arrow tie. Shirts $3.65 up, Ties $1.00 up.
0i t4A1CTN -6K Y-KN64T_
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair. 
It looks natural... 
it feels natural... 
and it stays in 
Piace 1 Try a bottle.
* Tbis spedai compound givu lustre.., *"ps hair in place without stiffness.
iK-A6i Sua 6-Mi 
C0IMAMNA = KN0I(MAFK-Mti = i4A6i iK-A6i
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MARCH 30. 1949
KRAMtR says. 
and really 
and tha\ *
mmki si< S * * V 
............................
Bartholomew To Speak On 
Development Of American Cities
Harland Bartholomew, noted civil engineer and city-planning 
expert of St. Louis, Missouri, will address the student body and 
faculty at the chapel assembly May 10 in the Carnegie theater. His 
subject for discussion will be The Development and Planning of 
American Cities. ?
A graduate of Rutgers college, 
and a member of Tau Beta Pi, Mr. 
Bartholomew is a veteran in his 
field, having spent 31 successive 
years in developing both com
prehensive city and regional plan
ning.
Former president of the Ameri
can City Planning institute and of 
the National Confederation of City 
Planning, his accomplishments inFor That Quick Bite, theSPORT CENTER GRILL
*^W* tbfp, NHmurm
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
elude the preparation of master 
plans for the Patterson and Wright 
airfields.
Recently he has worked as architect-engineer on the 12,000 unit 
federal housing programs in Vir
ginia at Norfolk and Portsmouth. 
His office has also prepared mas
ter plans for the State Parks of 
Missouri; he acted as landscape 
architects on large scale USHA 
slum clearance projects at Mem
phis, St. Louis, and other cities.
He has done considerable work 
in more than 100 American cities, 
including Pittsburgh, on such as
pects of city-planning as streets, 
highways, and waterways, 
visiting professor at the Univer
sity of Illinois.
Danish Visitors 
See CIT Metals 
Research Division
Twelve of the twenty members 
of the steel group of the Danish 
technical delegation, which are 
presently touring this country, 
visited the Metals Research lab
oratory last Thursday.
Under the auspices of ECA, the 
group is here for the purpose of 
acquiring knowledge and skill in 
their particular fields. They also 
desire to see the activities which 
make up the community life un
der our form of government.
Leader of the Danes was Jorgen Skov, who is interested in the 
over-all operation of a mill. He 
will be superintendent of the 
steel plate mill which the Danes 
purchased in the United States 
and which is presently being in
stalled in Denmark.
Freshman Load
[Continued from page 1]
revealed by the survey.
Courses Graded
Students were also asked to 
grade the contents of each course 
as difficult, about right, or easy. 
The opinion or the majority of 
students regarding chemistry, 
English, mathematics, social rela
tions, and engineering drawing 
was that they are about right. 
Physics was termed difficult by
the majority, while no subjects 
were classed as easy. (The aver
age freshman grade factor at mid
semester was 1.91; at the end of 
the first semester it was 1.96).
Another group, the educational 
policy committee, will study the 
work loads of all classes. This 
committee will determine the 
principles governing work loads, 
and the various colleges will at
tempt to change what is necessary * 
to make their programs conform 
with the principles established.
PreparationAverage hoursAverage hours per week needed
Coursehours listed inper week in outin outside prep-catalogside preparation aration to meet
TOTALS34.35
requirements
5.77
Chemistry S-101 
Mathematics (11 units)76.307.01
S-221 or S-2223V25.296.73
Physics S-401 (7 units 
English (8 units)55.045.84
C-702, C-703, or C-704 
Social Relations53.764.97
Eng, Drwg & Desc. Geom. 
C-705 (8 units)12.793.58
E-501 (5 units)24V227.5333.90
I like Chesterfields 
MILDER, better taste. 
Its MY cigarette.
"FLAMINGO ROAD
A MICHAEL CURTIZ PRODUCTION 
RELEASED BY WARNER BROS.
Cf yrigt 1949, iAIITOO * Mvns n4-mm4 d4
