(la ria
/TeC. O T~ C/
(lar VIII. No. 27iVI.No. 2I7AoApA. l1 6.,9IlalN4W toAA7hpVN9W t.II74awIoApril 16, 1914
VACAriON HINDERS 
FOOTBAIL PRACTICE
COACH STEFFENS TEACHES 
NEW STYLE OF GAME.
With two and a half weeks of the 
spring foot ball practice over, the 
query as to the benefit obtained there
from is put. Without doubt, a great 
deal was accomplished the first week. 
About fifty candidates were on the 
field every afternoon. Coach Stefiens began immediately, by in
structing the players in a style 
of game unlike that employed by 
former Tech elevens. Next fall 
the Plaid team will demonstrate 
the Western methods which differ 
from those of the Eastern colleges 
chiefly in the offense. The forward 
pass is the important factor in the 
open game and upon its manipulation 
the success of a team depends to a 
large extent. Coach Steffens has the 
entire squad practicing this play with 
its many variations. Footballs are 
hurled back and forth almost as easily 
as basketballs.
In addition to the forward pass a 
number of other plays are being tried 
and when the weather has prevented 
work outside the time has been taken 
up by lectures. The new coach is 
aggressive and keeps all the men occu
pied all of the time. Unfortunately 
vacation intervened, and the squad 
was greatly decreased, numbering on 
several days not more than six . These 
men certainly benefited by receiving 
the undivided attention of the coach 
but the team as a whole was not pres
ent to gain the instruction. The De
sign School has vacation this week 
so that not all of the candidates will 
be on hand. In the months training, 
however, it is hoped each man will 
have obtained at least a fundamental 
knowledge of the new game. More 
than this cannot be expected and the 
benefits derived from the spring work 
will not be evident until next fall, 
when we shall be able to judge how 
much good was accomplished by the 
innovation of spring football prac
tice.
BASEBALL SEASON TO OPEN 
AUSPICUOUSLY.
TEili WINS WESTINillOllSE MEET
SMITH (UP OURS. WOK fOR SECOND TIME IN THREE TEARS
By winning the dual track meet 
from Westinghouse Club on Wednes
day, April 1, Carnegie gained perma
nent prossesion of the Smith trophy. 
The final score, 50 to 39, gave the de
cision to the Plaid team by an easy 
margin, although at several times it 
seemed that the advantage would not 
be so great.
Haselton was the star of the meet, 
winning every race in which he en
tered, and setting fast time for every 
event. He ran the two-mile race in 
10:16, the one-mile in 4:38, and the 
half-mile in 2:06 3-5. Even the mani
fest shortness of the track,which 
disqualifies the times as new school 
recordsdoes not discount the speed 
and ability of the best distance man 
that has ever run for Carnegie Tech.
Hemmann placed second in both 
the 30-yard and the 220-yard dashes. 
He should have won the former race 
and he did not perform in the latter 
as well as he might have done. How
ever, more experience will overcome 
his over-confidence and improve his
If old Jupiter H. Pluvius will only 
be propitious and give his official wat
ering can a rest, the baseball team 
will open its season next Saturday, 
April 18, with our friends across the 
way, the noble sons of old Pa Pitt. 
This will be the first time that the 
two teams have men in two years ow
ing to a disagreement in eligibility 
rules, but these matters having been
form so that he will make a valuable 
man to the team. Rauh got away to 
a bad start in both these races and 
did not qualify for the finals, although 
he tried hard to place.
The pole vault attracted as much 
interest as any other event of the 
evening. Rogers, of Westinghouse, 
and Wright and Vierheller of Tech, 
were the only entries. When the bar 
reached ten feet, the two former 
men showed that the fight would be 
interesting. Wright cleared 10 feet 
six inches in spite of a painful ankle, 
then failed three times at 11 feet, while 
Rogers cleared the bar on his second 
try. Wright was safely over on his 
third attempt, but lost his balance in 
mid-air and touched the bar with his 
hand as he fell. Rogers continued to 
vault and established a new Middle 
Atlantic A. A. U. record of 11 feet
3 1-4 inches.
Westinghouse failed to enter a man 
in the high jump and the points went 
to Carnegie. King, however, jumped 
Continued or'. Page 5
satisfactorily adjusted, we are to re
sume relations with our natural riv
als. Owing to the extreme shyness 
of the blithesome spring, both teams 
have been unable to get much outdoor 
practice, (an unfortunate slenderness 
of purse prevented our team from 
taking their customary sojourn at Hot 
Springs) but nevertheless a game be
tween Pitt and Tech will hardly be 
lacking interest and excitement. Oh, 
dear no. If Forbes Field is in proper 
condition by next Saturday the game 
will be played at Forbes Field, thanks 
to the altruism of Mr. Barney Drey
fus. In case Forbes Field cannot be 
secured, the game will probably be 
played on Tech Field.
Tech students will be admitted on 
presentation of their student tickets. 
It is desirable that as many Tech stu
dents as can possibly do so, come out 
for this opening game for the team is 
made up largely of new material and 
will need the moral support of the 
Tech rooters. Rooting is a wonder
ful help to a team and especially at 
the beginning of the season when so 
much depends on getting the proper 
kind of a start. The Tech band has 
promised to come out for this game 
and the team will appear in their 
brand new uniforms which are the 
last word in the baseball costumers 
art.
DELIGHTFUL DINNER.
The little bunch of light-hearted 
youths who have their headquarters 
in Dr. Marks office gave a delightful 
luncheon to the members and a few 
guests on Thursday, April 2. Sand
wiches, salad, cake and fruit formed 
the comestibles that refreshed the 
participants, and the plentitude suf
ficed for all.
Trainer Bert Munhall acted as chef 
in preparing the good things, and each 
of the boys contributed to the supply. 
The affair was under the direction of 
Shorty Watt, Dave Mason and Tom
my Malie, while Burke. McDonald, 
Deever, et al., assisted.
The guests were Dr. Marks and 
Messrs. McCulloch, Eyman and Kline. 
These pleasant amusements are held 
spasmodically and it is understood 
that another is to be arranged in the 
near future.
DE MUTH ELECTED CAPTAIN.
OUTDOOR TRACK 
WORK IS BEGUN
CALL FOR ADDITIONAL CANDI
DATES IS ISSUED.
The election of a baseball captain 
closed last Tuesday, resulted in the 
selection of P. J. DeMuth for the lead
ership. De Muth, who is a Senior 
Civil, played in the outfield two years 
ago and is a valuable man. The Tar
tan wishes him and his team all suc
cess for the season just started.
The indoor season closed with the 
Westinghouse Meet and after a vaca
tion of a week and a half, the track 
squad resumed practice last Monday. 
A new six lap track has been laid out 
on the field and though not quite com
pleted, it is far enough advanced to 
be used for the preliminary workouts.
The inter-school Plebe meet which 
was scheduled for Saturday has been 
called off, in favor of an inter-class 
Industry School meet because a larger 
number of students will be interested 
in the latter. The events will be held 
in the morning beginning at ten 
oclock. This change in the schedule 
will move forward the date of the first 
spring conflict between the three 
schools, to Saturday, April 25, when 
the annual Inter-School meet will take 
place.
In the meantime, the Varsity will 
be roundedinto shape for the strenu
ous season ahead. The best results 
can be obtained from a large squad for 
then the competition is wider and 
keener. A call for additional candi
dates is therefore issued. Several men 
have refrained from reporting until 
the regular outdoor work was started 
and these with many others are urged 
to come out immediately for practice. 
Coach Dull expressed the belief that 
if every man in school who has the 
least track ability, would try for the 
team, he could produce a champion
ship combination. Why not give him 
the chance to prove his statement? 
Several weak spots must be strength
ened if a well balanced team is to be 
developed. Capt. Clair is the only 
former Varsity candidate in the weight 
events. The loss of ex-Capt. Craw
ford leaves the hurdles and quartermile without an experienced defender. 
Quarter-milers especially are needed 
if Tech is to be represented by a relay 
quartet. For other events as the 
sprints, pole vault, and high jump there 
are but one or two candidates of Var
sity caliber. A meet is seldom won 
by points acquired fronr first places 
and a number of secondary men are 
necessary for a successful team.
The warm weather should be a fur
ther incentive to indulge in track 
work. Come out, give the coach an 
opportunity to decide if you possess 
any ability. The results of the indoor 
meets furnish hopes for the outcome 
of the outdoor season. But several 
more men must be developed if Pitt 
is to be humbled and the championship 
of this section is to be acquired.

---------------------------------------------------

2lye arlatt
She (Harlan
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, 14..Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14----Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, 16............News Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor 
A. H. McGill, 14...........Science Editor
H. L. Heilman, 16...Design Editor
J. M. Parke, 14___Industries Editor
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, 15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, 15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16.....................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16........................Reporter
PITTSBURGH, PA., APRIL 16, 1914
WHY EXAMINATIONS?
The following article appeared in 
the Literary Digest of April 4th. 
Although the final examinations for 
high school are principally dealt with, 
nevertheless it is easily applicable to 
colleges.
What is to be gained by the tra
ditional school or college examination 
the final test held at the end of a 
course, after which the case is re
garded as closed? This question is 
asked by Mrs. Jane Pollock Anderson, 
of the high school at Kenilworth, 111., 
in a paper read before the Central 
Association of Science and Mathe
matics Teachers, which we condense 
from School Science and Mathe
matics (March). Her answer is that 
such examinations are useless if the 
instruction is of the kind, as it should 
be, where the pupils very thoughts 
are being examined every hour. Mrs. 
Anderson would like to see the final 
examination die out, with other use
less antiquities. She asks her fellow 
instructors:
 What is the object or purpose of 
this final examination?
I. Is it to find out where we as 
teachers have been lacking in pre
senting the subject? Then it is too 
late to benefit the pupils who take the 
test, and it is unjust that they should 
have the mark that belongs to the 
teacher.
II. Is it to compel the pupils to 
get a thorough review of the subject? 
This is far more effectively done by 
taking a definite section of the review 
each day for the last week or two 
under the supervision of the teacher 
and judging the pupil by his power to
use the fundamentals in a calm, 
thoughtful way.
III. Is it to give the pupil prac
tice because he will be required to take 
entrance examinations for college and 
tests in college later? This would be 
worth far more to the pupil if given 
often as class exercises and with the 
teachers corrections and advice as to 
improving the paper, instead of being 
given as a last exercise.
IV. Is it to determine for our
selves how well the pupil can control 
himself during an examination, how 
well he can write what he knows, 
when pressed for time? This may be 
a very good object, but it demands 
that the teacher know what the pupil 
knows before he takes the test, or 
else how can the teacher say that cer
tain mistakes are made because he is 
taking the test?
 V. Is it our object to give ques
tions that we know they know? Do 
we work them up to pass the examina
tion we have prepared?
 VI. On the other hand, is it our 
object to give the things we think the 
pupils may not know, taking the last 
chance of arousing them to the heed 
of getting these points before going 
on to the next course If so, it is hard
ly fair to brand them with the mark 
obtained upon a set of questions on 
which the teacher knew they were 
weak, and it is rather hopeless to de
pend upon their getting help from the 
teacher on these weak points if it is a 
final examination.
VII. Last, but not least, is the 
object of the examination to deter
mine what the pupil knows? Is the 
teacher depending upon it for the 
pupils standing? In my mind this is 
the only legitimate reason for giving 
an examination; but what kind of a 
teacher is it that can associate with 
her pupils forty-five minutes a day for 
four or eight months and not knowr 
their standing and yet can judge them 
and mark them upon the result of a 
final examination?
"The writer believes that the tra
ditional examination fails both on ac
count of the impossibility of giving 
fair test-questions and of determining 
the exact value to put upon the an
swer. Not only, she says, does she 
oppose any system that determines 
the standard of a pupil by answers 
without knowing the mind back of the 
answer, but she also enumerates the 
following definite evils which, she as
serts, arise from the examination:
 Discouragement and fear of the 
test which often hinder the best work 
of the course.
 Working toward the mark of the 
examination rather than toward mas
tery of the subject and power to carry 
on higher things. This of course de
feats the purpose and destroys the joy 
of the work.
 Cramming in the worst sense of 
the word, which gives temporary 
knowledge, not power; makes ma
chines of them instead of thinkers; 
and sometimes fatigues the mind so 
that even the memory and machinery 
of the cramming fail them at the ex
amination and breakdown follows.
 The use of translations or keys in 
preparing the work and in the test, 
and dishonesty of all kinds resorted to 
for the sake of the mark.
 Heartache, disgust, or indifference 
toward the marks, as faith in their 
honesty wanes.
 Injustice through honors decided 
by a fraction of a per cent.
 Injustice in that many teachers 
are required to spend so much time 
getting their pupils ready to pass me
chanical examinations that less time is 
left for the logic and reasoning of 
real mathematics.
 Hardship to the teacher who cor
rects or marks low a pupil who has 
had high marks the year before.
 Injustice to the teacher who marks 
lower than the others in the same 
course, in that pupils will leave her for 
the teachers who mark higher.
 Injustice to certain elective 
courses as a whole if the teachers 
mark lower than the teachers of other 
elective courses; for pupils will seek 
the course for the sake of the mark 
as long as we encourage it. 
To the Tartan:
A recent discussion of the efficacy of 
newspaper publicity calling attention 
to the need of financial assistance for 
our student body prompts us to re
quest that The Tartan print an article 
in its editorial columns embodying the 
points covered.
The Seannachie.
The frequent appearance in the pub
lic press of articles calling attention 
to the financial difficulties of some of 
the members of the student body has 
excited comment not only in the Sean
nachie but also among the students 
and the faculty. The Tartan will be 
glad to receive and print any further 
discussion on this subject.
The articles referred to are those 
which depict the struggles of indivi
duals or groups in our student body 
in a highly colored fashion and which 
so exaggerate the facts as to result in 
a public misunderstanding of condi
tions. In fact the students concerned 
sometimes fail to recognize them
selves when written up in the press.
As a result of a recent news item 
the Employment Bureau secured over 
two hundred days work for students 
who wanted to work over the Easter 
vacation. This shows that such ar
ticles certainly accomplish purpose 
but would not a news item written in 
a less colored fashion have produced 
the same results? The article re
ferred to was sufficiently illuminated 
as to result in cartoons which were 
embarassing to the student body and 
particularly to those concerned. Fur
ther, at the time that help was asked 
from the public there was a large 
force of extra laborers employed on 
the grounds grading for grass, and 
clearing the campus and hillsides of 
the debris from building operations 
of the past few years. Another force 
of men are regularly employed to take 
care of the lawns, window cleaning 
and scrubbing. Why must a student 
go outside for such work when there 
is plenty of it right here? Here we 
admire a man who is earning money
to help defray expenses, we under
stand his circumstances and we re
spect his pluck; outsiders cannot feel 
the same sympathy. None of us like 
to have our financial difficulties flout
ed in public and especially if the case 
is exaggerated or is not absolutely 
necessary.
Articles of the type referred to have 
a tendency to delude men of little 
means into believing that he will be 
able to come to Carnegie and by hook 
or crook manage to work his way 
through. As in other colleges the man 
who works his way through is the 
exception; many it is true manage to 
make a considerable part of their ex
penses, which are at least $35 to $40 a 
month minimum, but it is a hard 
struggle at best. The ordinary course 
in Carnegie, if a man is to do it jus
tice, requires at least fifty hours a 
week of fatiguing mental application 
and anyone intending to earn expenses 
has mighty little time to do it in if 
he is to eat and sleep. To quote from 
the Bulletin entitled Student Earn
ings and Expenses at Carnegie, which 
gives advice to prospective students: 
There have been many men who 
have arrived in Pittsburgh with less 
than $25 after paying fees. Where a 
few of them1, however, managed to 
squeeze through the majority went 
under. If on top of scholastic work a 
man has to find a job and then hold 
it, particularly at the start, he is neces
sarily put under a stress and strain 
that both imperils his initial records 
in the Deans office and later makes it 
an almost physical impossibility to 
keep up his scholastic work. Any ar
ticle in the newspapers which tends to 
cover up the difficulties of securing 
an education and which would induce 
men of little means to come here when 
their doing so is harmful to them
selves is evidently at cross purposes 
with the best interests of the com
munity and the institution. This in
creases the necessity for such adver
tising.
Another point to be considered. If 
Carnegie is to develop the best and 
broadest product and to promote the 
true conditions of a democratic spirit, 
our student body must contain men 
of all classes. The man of means can 
impart to the man without, many 
things which the other has had no 
opportunity to get and vice-versa. 
Both types are highly desirable when 
balanced against each other; we do 
not want either class to the exclusion 
of the other because such a condition 
invariably means a narrower product. 
It cannot be denied, however, that 
misleading articles tend to increase 
one class and to prevent a good many 
men of the other types from coming 
here.
The newspaper publicity of the type 
referred to evidently originates from 
information furnished by the admin
istration to reporters who certainly 
are to be commended for their efforts 
and abilities to write as they do with
out being in close contact with the 
student body. Would it not be better 
though if a member of the faculty or 
student body were to write such ar
ticles and, being closely in touch with 
Continued on Page 3

---------------------------------------------------

(Effe aria
Editorials
Continued from Page 2 
actual conditions, they would be able 
to secure the desired results with less 
embarrassment to the students and to 
the institution? We wish to be under
stood that -\Ve are not criticizing the 
newspapers, or their representatives; 
on the contrary we are very mucb 
indebted to them, but that it is our 
opinion that the system is wrong.
G. G. K.
It is with deep regret that we note 
the death of Prof. Trinks eleven-yearold son, Charles Henry Gisbert Trinks. 
He died suddenly on Monday after
noon, April 6, at 4 oclock.
CREOSOTED WOOD BLOCK 
PAVEMENTS.
Editors Note:This is the third of 
a series of articles by graduates of the 
School of Applied Science. Mr. Ham
nett graduated in the Metallurgical 
Engineering course in 1908 and is now 
vice president-manager of the Pitts
burgh Testing Laboratory of Texas.
The ten years just passed have seen 
a remarkable development and appli
cation of all kinds of street paving 
materials, among them being one 
which, while comparatively new, has 
commanded the study and attention 
of Paving Engineers all over the 
world, especially in this country where 
its use is increasing in proportions 
heretofore unheard of. It is the Creosoted Wood Block.
While the use of wood for pave
ments dates back to 1835 in London, 
and 1839 in New York, and even fur
ther back in some of the Northern 
cities of Europe, it is only in very 
recent years that it has been used in 
a scientific manner as a standard pave
ment . The early pavements were of 
untreated wood, and of course failed 
in a very short time from decay, and 
it was soon seen that the wood must 
be preserved against decay in some 
manner, or its use would become pro
hibitive, due to the cost of both the 
timber and maintenance. A great 
number of preservatives were tried, 
with varying success ,among which 
were Copper Sulphate, Mercuric 
Chloride, Zinc Chloride, and other me
tallic salts, and Creosote, or dead oil 
of coal tar. The latter is used univer
sally at the present time, and will 
probably remain as the standard pre
servative for wood blocks. Decay in 
wood is caused by germ life, which 
flourishes in the presence of moisture, 
and it is, therefore, evident that the 
preservative must be strongly toxic, 
and at the same time a water-proofer 
which will remain in the wood. The 
metallic salts, while having the power 
to destroy germ life, are not waterproofers, and are easily leached out, 
hence their usefulness for this class 
of work. Creosote oil, which con
tains large quantities of napthalene 
and anthacene, as well as some of the 
cresols and phenols, is a powerful 
antiseptic, in the presence of which 
animal life of any character is not
possible, and as it contains also some 
of the heavier coal tar oils, and is en
tirely insoluble in water, it becomes 
an ideal medium for the prevention of 
wood decay.
Having determined on the preserva
tive to be used, the next step was to 
select a proper wood from all stand
points. For obvious reasons, it must 
be strong, dense, and tough, have a 
high resistence to shattering and split
ting, a low co-efficient of expansion, 
and finally, must not be too expensive. 
After experimenting with White Pine, 
Fir, Oak, and other less known woods, 
it was found that there were four va
rieties most suited to paving work. 
These are Long Leaf Yellow Pine, 
Norway Pine, Black Gum and Tama
rack. Long Leaf Yellow Pine is pecu
liar to the Southern States of the 
United States, and this wood is ac
cepted as being adapted in every way 
to the manufacture of wooden paving 
blocks, hence its almost exclusive use 
in this country.
The application of the preservative 
must be made in such a manner, and 
in sufficient quantity, that it will com
pletely penetrate the fibres and cell 
walls, and yet in no wise injure the 
strength of the wood. This was for
merly attempted by boiling the cut 
clocks in creosote in an open kettle, 
and there are some pavements still 
in use which attest the efficacy of even 
this crude method, but later and care
ful research proved that it was uncer
tain and inaccurate, and in many cases 
inefficient. The modern process is 
known as the Pressure-Vacuum 
method. The blocks, after being cut, 
are placed in large iron cages, which 
are run into a riveted steel cylinder, 
having doors at either end that may 
be hermetically sealed. They are then 
subjected to a pressure of about twen
ty-five pounds per square inch of live 
steam, for a sufficient period of time 
to completely liquify the sap and gum 
contained in the wood, the time de
pending on the condition of the wood 
and the size of the charge. A vacuum 
of at least twenty-four inches of mer
cury is then applied, and held until 
most of the liquified sap and gum is 
extracted, and all the cells are dry and 
expanded. Hot creosote is then in
troduced into the cylinder while the 
vacuum is still present, and the quan
tity required is forced into the wood 
with a pressure of one hundred to one 
hundred twenty-five pounds per square 
inch. Care must be taken to see that 
the temperature during steaming 
never exceeds two hundred fifty de
grees Fahrenheit, inasmuch as a 
stronger heat might result in the wood 
being weakened by carbonization. Al* 
so, too great a pressure should not 
be used in forcing the oil into the 
blocks, as this also may result in their 
being weakened. After treatment, the 
blocks are ready for laying, without 
further attention.
Almost every Engineer, who has 
laid wood block pavements, has his 
own ideas in regard to just how they 
should be laid, and it is further often 
a matter of local conditions that govContinued on Page 6
The first Automobile Was a Very 
Different Proposition man The 
1914 Six-Cylinder of Today
It was a hit-and-miss, comical affair that a great many people 
laughed at and freely predicted would never replace the horse-drawn 
vehicle.
Bat The Contrast Between The Two Is 
No Greater Than The Difference Between 
The Hand-Me-Down Clothes Well Dressed 
Men Once Held Impossible and the Horne 
Ready to Pat-On Clothes for Spring, J9J4
They are the fashion standard of the world. The men who cut 
and design them are paid salaries far in excess of the earnings of most 
of the best custom tailors in America. They are the highest skilled 
in their lines, recognized for their artistry, individuality and their ability 
to produce clothes that please men.
There is not one in a hundred ordinary tailors who have either 
the skill or the facilities to turn ont the character of modern clothing 
for men and young men that these specialists are producing for us 
(and a limited clientele of other first-class stores throughout the country) 
to sell at prices which the majority of men can afford.
At $ 15.00 to $50.00 there is a selection of Mens 
XXX all Wool Suits that will meet the fullest demands 
and expectations of men of good dress; suits we can 
fully guarantee for style, quality and fit.
The clothing is here to bear out these statements, whenever you 
care to investigate.
Joseph Horne Co.
The Style Supreme Store
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4lje (Fartait
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1 138
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
npHE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and ^ Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
| M. M. C. S. NEWS I
T *
MR. HUMPHREYS SPEAKS AT 
M. M. C. S.
Thursday noon, April ninth, Mr. 
Humphreys, of the Stevens Institute 
of Technology, gave an interesting 
lecture to the students and faculty of 
M. M. C. S.
ADDRESS BY DR. H. W. DAVIES.
The students of M. M. C. S. were 
entertained by a very interesting and
instructive lecture March thirteenth,
when Dr. H. W. Davies, of Teachers
Training School of this city, spoke to
them.
Dr. Davies spoke especially to those 
who intended to teach and he said: 
That who ever gives themselves to a 
community must give it with a re
ligious devotion. He also said that 
teachers should have a devotion to 
the individual; that is, they must have 
a certain amount of conceit but that 
they cannot deal with the mass as a 
sociological mass. The third point 
that he wished the students to take 
away with them was a devotion and 
love for their tasks.
On account of the present M. M. C.
S. building being connected to the new 
structure during vacation a number of 
rooms and classes will be interfered 
with. Miss Merrills office will be in 
the new weaving room which is to be 
located in Miss Pattons old room1. 
Miss Patton has moved to the faculty 
parlors on the first floor.
Dr. Esqueries and Dr. Sills office 
has been moved into one of the hall.
Miss Lyons office has been changed 
to the dining room on the third floor.
In General Assembly, April sixth, 
Mr. McDowell led the M. M. C. S. 
girls in singing school songs. A great 
deal of school spirit was aroused and 
it was wished by the students that Mr. 
McDowell could direct them more 
often.
COMMENCEMENT DANCES AND 
BANQUETS.
Are occasions, which, to be perfect 
must have refreshments or menus of 
highest quality, served in an attrac
tive and distinctive manner.
HEATH Catering has long been 
recognized as the foremost in West
ern Pennsylvania.
Call Hiland 238 for prices or to ar
range for an interview. Small orders 
given particular attention.
5717 Center Ave.
Adv.
G. M. PORTER SPEAKS AT MHO 
CLUB MEETING.
A talk on the Westinghouse post
graduate engineering course by 
George M. Porter, a 1911 Science man, 
who has been through it, was given 
at the Mho Club meeting Wednesday 
evening, April 1, in Room 104, Ma
chinery Hall.
Mr. Porters visit was unexpected, 
but his talk was very interesting, and 
on a subject all desired to know about 
As he explained it, this course is prac
tically two years postgraduate work 
of the most practical sort. The wages 
paid, from 20 to 24 cents an hour, per
mit of no saving, and only by careful 
management the course pays for it
self. According to Mr. Porter, the 
testing and office work leading to 
salesmanship which comprise the 
work, are not the best course for all 
men just out of school; but many 
would do better to take up a practical 
position at once on account of saving 
two years.
The meeting itself was presided 
over by the vice president, A. M. Stev
enson, because of President Dunbars
sickness. The business was mainly a 
discussion of plans for a social func
tion, at which the Plebes electing the 
Electrical option might get acquainted 
with the upper classmen and the Mho 
Club. A committee, of which A. D. 
Moore and J. P. Reynolds are mem
bers, was appointed to find out about 
former similar doings, and to get in 
touch with next years Soph. Electri
cals.
STUDY LANGUAGES
WITH NATIVE TEACHERS AT THECOURS FLAMBARD
BENEDUMTBEE8 BLDG., FOURTH, NEAR 
WOOD 8T., CITY
Do not be bluffed by so-called natu_ 
ral methods, Investigate the original 
Direct System for adults--used in Pre
paration for examinations this school. 
Absolutely the quickest Highest city rereferences"
PBONECOURT 2865
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Children* and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 491 2 Hiland
The upper classmen all patronize us
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Carens 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbe* Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
ALUMNI DANCE.
On April 18th the Alumni Associa
tion, of the Schools of Applied Science 
and Applied Design are going to give 
an informal dance in the Machinery 
Hall. It is hoped that this will be as 
successful as the ones that the stu
dents have given.
Carnegie Institute of Technology. Machinery Hall (on left of picture). School of Applied Industries (on the right)
and School of Applied Science (in background)

---------------------------------------------------

tye Sarta5
GIFT TO NEW ENGLAND CLUB.
The New England Club of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology received on 
March 2nd a gift of $21.00 from Mrs. 
Mason-Piper of Keene, N. H. The 
gift was given in memory of her son, 
Leonard Mason, late of the Depart
ment of Architecture, who would have 
been of age on the above date. Mr. 
Mason was drowned while swimming 
in a river near his home.
He was one of the founders of the 
New England Club. The ciub is com
posed of faculty members and stu
dents from the New England states. 
It is the first territorial club formed 
in this chool. The main object of the 
club is to spread the name of Carnegie 
"Tech throughout New England and 
create fraternal spirit among the New 
England men. Mr. Tarbell and Mr. 
Williams have been a great help to the 
club from its foundation to the pres
ent. The officers are:
PresidentEber W. Gaylord, Jr.
V. Pres.Lennox C. Fogg.
Sec. & Treas.Joseph Gelman.
Executive CommitteeGrover C. 
Robbins, Carl E. Hemman.
DESIGN SCHOOL MEETING.
The Design School held a meeting 
on April 3, 1914, and elected the fol
lowing men:
Senior member, Board of Control 
Edward J. Holthauser.
Second Assistant FootballClayton 
A. Burnett.
Second Assistant BaseballEarle 
H. Beckman.
Second Assistant TrackWalter F. 
Kendall.
TylerWm. F. McCaughey, Jr.
THE CARTOONISTS CLUB.
A new club has been formed in the 
Design School, composed of the stu
dents electing the cartooning course. 
The purpose of the club is to develop 
interest in cartooning. The club in 
the future plans to visit the various 
newspapers and periodicals with that 
interest in view. The officers are as 
follows:
PresidentMaurice McComb.
Vice Pres.A. Brady McSwigan.
SecretaryWilliam L. McQuillan.
TreasurerMeredith S. Berry.
Faculty AdvisorCharles J. Taylor.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat
ifying results, particularly among for
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
Tech Wins Westinghouse Meet
Continued from Page 1 
to break the club record and cleared 
5 feet 10 inches.
In the half-mile, Carnegie also took 
all three places. Haselton jumped in
to the lead after the first quarter and 
set a heart-breaking pace for the re
mainder of the distance. Finley and 
MacMillan ran pluckily and led the 
Westinghouse men at the tape. Finley 
is a runner who is improving stead
ily and shows promise of winning in 
the middle distances in out-door 
meets.
Dunseith ran a good race in the 
quarter, but was boxed on the narrow 
track and could not head his competi
tors. He succeeded in tying for sec
ond place and was in good condition 
at the finish.
Hulett showed surprising ability in 
the broad jump. It was his first com
petition and he suffered somewhat 
from lack of experience, but can eas
ily improve. One of his jumps was 
close to 20 feet, but he had not mo
mentum enough to carry his body for
ward and his hand touched the mat 
behind his feet. Patterson took sec
ond place in this event.
The summaries:
30-yard dash trialsFirst heat won 
by Caulfield, W. C.; Hemmann, C. T., 
second. Time, :03 4-5.
Second heat won by Pence, W. C.; 
Williams, W. C., second. Time, :04.
30-yard finalWon by Caulfield, W. 
C.; Hemmann, C. T., second; Wil
liams, W. C., third. Time, :03 4-5. 
Two-mile runWon by Haselton, C. 
T.; Reader, W. C., second; Mitschrich, W. C., third. Time, 10:16.
440-yard runWon by Pence, W. 
C.; Signor, W. C., second, and Dun
seith, C. T., tied for second. Time, 
:55 4-5.
One-mile runW"on by Haselton, 
C. T.; Campbell, C. T., second; Blasser, W. C., third. Time, 4:38.
220-yard dash trialsFirst neat: 
won by Hemmann, C. T.; Rider, W. 
C., second. Time, :26 2-5.
Second heatWon by Caulfield, W. 
C.; Christy, W. C., second. Time, 
:25 4-5.
Final heatWon by Caulfield, W. 
C.; Hemmann, C. T., second; Rider, 
W. C., third. Time, :25 3-5.
Half-mile runWon by Haselton, 
C. T.; Finley, C. T., second; MacMil
lan, C. T., third. Time, 2:06 3-5.
Running broad jumpWon by Wil
liams, W. C.; Patterson, C. T., sec
ond; Hulett, C. T., third. Distance, 
19 feet, 1-4 in.
Running high jumpForfeited to C. 
T. (King, Vierheller, Wright.)
Pole vaultWon by Rogers, W. C.; 
Wright, C. T., second; Vierheller, C. 
T., third. Height, 11 feet. Rogers 
vaulted 11 feet 3 1-4 inches in exhibi
tion.
Half-mile relayWon by Westing
house (Pence, Caulfield, Signor, Mowry); Carnegie (Hemmann, Patterson, 
Dunseith, Rauh) second.
True ValuesB. & B.True Values
far caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs VA Buhl,Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
A PRACTICAL ADDRESS.
An address of a very practical nature 
was delivered before the student as
sembly of the School of Applied In
dustries at its last session before the 
Easter vacation. The speaker was 
Fred H. Rindge, Jr., M.A., of New 
York, secretary of the Industrial Serv
ice Movement, a scheme for student 
volunteer service among American 
workingmen inaugurated by the 
Young Mens Christian Association. 
Mr. Rindge told his story in a very 
straightforward manner and its effect 
became evident by the number of stu
dents who expressed a willingness 
to launch out into the work.
As explained by Mr. Rindge, the 
movement was organized at Yale in 
1907 and since that time it has 3,500 
volunteer students in 160 colleges and 
technical schools who are engaged in 
the work. The work consists of get
ting into direct contact with working
men in their homes, bunk houses, or 
wherever they may be, teaching Eng
lish to immigrants, drawing or any 
subject for which there is a need; also 
in studying working conditions at first 
hand. Many students give one-third 
or one-half of the evenings during 
two years of their college work to this 
movement.
At the call of President Price of the 
Assembly, a meeting of the men inter
ested in the movement met on the fol
lowing afternoon. The meeting was 
presided over by Mr. Symmons, who 
has charge of the movement at the 
University of Pittsburgh. Mr. Rindge 
explained the work in more detail and 
outlined the steps necessary for the 
immediate organization of a strong 
committee. Frank J. Weigle, of the 
Teachers Course, was elected chair
man of the committee. Among the 
students who have signified their will
ingness to co-operate in the move
ment are: Thos. Fish, H. F. Marti, 
R. Merker, G. C. Robbins, A. H. 
Schtz, F. J. Weigle, of the Teachers 
Course; J. R. Price and J. W. Parke 
of the Upper Class; Douglas Orms 
and S. Sprager, W. M. Price and W. 
Lord of the Middle Class; and J. H. 
Clark, Theodore Meilleur, E. W. Overdorff, C. A. Parker, C. L. Snell and 
J. L. Wilczynski of the Lower Class.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.Adv.
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
i
Oakland
Savings &. Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200.000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $1,700,000,00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
The Hotel Schenley 
Barber Shop
solicits your pati onage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
THE D. L. AULDCO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS 
Co!u nbus, Bjs'on, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES. CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland 1 1 21R 
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH, PA.
Where All the Young 
Men Go
H. HEINERT
HATTER AND HABERDASHER
3614 Forbes Street 
Iroquois Block
1882 1914
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
Bell Phone9l24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association Masters of Dancing
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

eStye (Tartan
Creosoted Wood Block Pavements
Continued from Page 3 
erns this, but there are some points 
in the laying that have become almost 
standard, and it is with these which 
we are chiefly concerned. As is the 
case with other pavements for heavy 
traffic, the usual concrete base of a 
thickness of from four inches to six 
inches is required. Upon this is spread 
a layer of a one to four mixtures of 
clean, sharp sand and Portland ce
ment ,one-half inch in thickness, which 
is slightly moistened with water, and 
struck to proper crown with a tem
plate. The blocks are laid upon this 
cushion by hand, with a fibre in all 
cases vertical, and are driven fairly 
tight by placing a board against every 
four or five courses, and tapping it 
with a hammer. No attempt should 
be made to drive the blocks to a close 
fit, as this will almost inveriably re
sult in a buckled pavement. Expan
sion joints, three-fourths of an inch 
wide, should be left longitudinally at 
each curb, and one, about one-half of 
an inch wide, should be left every 
fifty feet transversely. After the 
street is laid, it should be rolled thor
oughly with a five to eight-ton steam 
roller, until all blocks have reached a 
solid bearing, and the street conforms 
to proper crown. The expansion 
joints, and all interstices between the 
blocks, should be filled two-thirds full 
with a good bituminous filler, which 
has a penetration of about thirty to 
forty at seventy-seven degrees Fahren
heit, and has been heated until thor
ough^ liquid. Finally, a layer of clean 
sand, one-half of an inch thick, should 
be spread over the entire street, and 
left there for perhaps a week after the 
traffic has been turned on, at which 
time the street should be swept clean.
The advantages of a wood block 
pavement are that it is very durable, 
that it is noiseless and sanitary, 
smooth, dustless, has a very low main
tenance cost, and finally, that it will 
wear very evenly. The fact that the 
tough fibre ends are exposed to the 
traffic, make it durable, and as there 
is no pulverizing, dust is reduced to a 
minimum. From the nature of the 
material it is noiseless, due to lack of 
vibration, and as the joints are not 
open to absorb refuse matter, and the 
creosote itself will destroy disease 
germs, it is sanitary. The street is 
obviously easy to repair if repairs are 
necessary, and experience has shown 
that wearing is very slow under the 
heaviest traffic, especially after the 
first two years. It might also be men
tioned that the pavement has com
paratively good traction, and reflection 
and radiation are at a minimum.
Practically the only trouble which 
has occurred in connection with wood 
block pavements has been that of 
buckling, or rising in spots and as a 
whole. This can be attributed to but 
one causeexpansion. It will be read
ily seen that if a part or whole of a 
pavement expands, something must 
give and if proper expansion joints are 
not provided, or if the blocks are not 
fully treated with the proper oil, 
buckling will surely occur. The ex
pansion joint is, of course, the primary 
remedy for this trouble, but it is pos
sible to go back to this, and provide 
against most of the expansion itself 
by proper treatment, and this involves 
the subject of creosote oils. A long 
discussion on the technology of cre
osote oil would be out of place at this 
time, but as there have been two great 
divisions of the oil used in blocks, 
the writer wishes to discuss them 
briefly. Up to about three years ago, 
almost all specifications called for an 
oil having a specific gravity of at least
1.10", and at the same time called for 
a pure distillate of coal tar. This 
specification can not technically be ful
filled, inasmuch as there is no such 
product made. Pure creosote has a 
gravity of 1.03 to 1.08, and the above 
mentioned block oil, which has been 
largely used, is made almost by adding 
pitch to pure creosote to produce the 
required weight. This is self-evident
ly an adulterated material. The pitch 
has little, or no, preserving power, and 
as it renders the oil more viscous, it 
retards and prevents its injection into 
the wood, which causes imperfect 
treatment. A large number of the 
blocks treated with this oil, while 
having the required weight of oil, will 
have white centers, and if they crack 
or check, they can readily absorb 
water, which causes great expansion, 
and having no antiseptic in the center, 
they are open to agents of decay. 
Since this heavy block oil weighs more 
per gallon, it is evident that less gal
lons are necessary to produce the re
quired weight per cubic foot of wood. 
Another great disadvantage of its use 
is that it exudes, or bleeds, in great 
quantities under summer heat, and 
aside from producing a sticky, un
sightly pavement, this causes a more 
serious condition, namely, that of loss 
of preservative. It is not a waterproofer, as shown above, and its use 
is rapidly declining, and has almost 
reached a point where Engineers will 
not permit it.
The preservative which is gaining 
in favor is the pure distillate of coal 
tar, or pure creosote. It is unadul
terated, is very liquid, and has a high 
preservative value. It can be readily 
forced into wood, in large quantities 
(twenty pounds per cubic foot), and it 
will penetrate into all the fibres, thus 
automatically rendering them as near
ly water-proof as they can be made, 
inasmuch as if the fibres are already 
full of oil, they have no opportunity 
to take up much water. This is of 
great importance, as it minimizes ex
pansion, and insures against decay. 
This pure oil will, of course, evaporate 
to a slight extent, being of lighter 
gravity, but it will not bleed, nor 
make an unsightly street, and the 
evaporation is more than balanced by 
the greater preserving power of the
oil remaining in the wood.
The first cost of wood block pave
ments is comparatively high, being ap
proximately $3.25 to $3.50 per square 
yard, where Zy2" x 4" x 8" blocks are 
used, but this is more than offset by 
the advantage of having an extremely
good pavement which is unaffected 
by the elements or ordinary accidents, 
and having a very low maintenance 
cost for a long period of time. Con
sidering all its advantages, this pave
ment, even at increased first cost, may 
be well termed an excellent invest
ment for a city, and for the individual 
property owner.
W. S. HAMNETT.
MUSICAL CLUBS EASTER TRIP.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs left 
the B. & O. station Tuesday, the 7th, 
at 7:30 oclock to invade Fairmont and 
Mannington, W. Va., where they gave 
two very delightful concerts although 
handicapped by leaving at home with 
about half the club.
On arrival at the Fairmont station 
the club was received by the repre
sentatives of the High School Senior 
class in autos and driven to the school. 
Here the men were taken care of by 
various students who took them to 
their homes and entertained them dur
ing their short stay.
A short program was given in the 
afternoon to the High School students 
in which solos were practically the 
main feature.
The concert was very good and mer
ited a fine article in the Fairmont 
Times in which the club was given a 
first class send off.
At Mannington, Wednesday night, 
the 8th, the clubs played to an appre
ciative but small audience and won a 
place into the hearts of the music 
lovers of that town. They were in
vited back and it is said were asked 
to sign up for next years concert.
The club left Mannington at 11 A. 
M. Thursday morning and on their 
arrival at Wheeling sat down to an 
inviting lunch at the McLure House, 
thus taking up about 50 minutes of 
time between trains. The men arrived 
in Pittsburgh at 6 P. M., and all have 
agreed this years trip, in all respects, 
had it on last years and the fellows 
say West Virginia is the place to spend 
a quiet Easter vacation, so heres to 
the trips later on.
NIGHT PREPS. HOLD BANQUET.
The Night Prep, boys certainly were 
up to the mark in exhibiting the spirit 
which is characteristic of the Plaid 
men, at a banquet which they held at 
the Schenley Hotel last Saturday even
ing, April 5th. This banquet is prac
tically the last big affair of the year 
for the Night Preps, and they made 
good use of this opportunity to get 
together. An unusually large crowd 
turned out and the pep was in pro
portion. The principal speakers of 
the evening were Dean Connelly and 
Prof. Morris of the Applied Industries 
School, and they increased the cour
age of the fighting Prepites consider
ably. Socks Price, prominent leader 
of the Tech Minstrels, and his quar
tet, rendered their selections in an 
all-star manner.
STANDISFUt
2003H
COLLAR CriOCNH
Cluett Peabody if Ca,lnc. Makers ?
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
HUKILLHUNTER (0.
IDI Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
fLOWERSfORALLO((ASl(MS
Randolph & Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue Near Highland Ave.
| C. M. STAUFT 2
P* Stationery, News, Etc. $
>. Gentlemans Watches ^ and Repairing. -
^ 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. r
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Good* called for and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

QJbr artaD
INDUSTRIAL INTER-CLASS 
ATHLETIC MEET SAT
URDAY MORNING 
AT 9 A. M.
THE BETA THETA EPSILON 
ANNUAL DANCE.
The first annual Inter-Class meet of 
the Industries School, for the Dean 
Connelley Trophy, is scheduled for 
Saturday morning at 9:00.
Much credit is due Mr. Overdorff, 
who is arranging the meet, for the 
manner in which he is working to 
make this meet a big success.
This general topic throughout the 
Industries School is the on-coming 
athletic meet, and from the entry list 
posted on the bulletin board, about 
one-half of the students enrolled in the 
school are entered in the meet. The 
feeling as to the outcome is very great, 
owing to the fact that each class has a 
few good men who are sure of their 
points but the remaining entrants are 
unknown and of course it is hard to 
pick the winning class.
But nevertheless the meet will be a 
big success, providing each man does 
his part, this means, if you cant run 
bring your girl and root for your 
class.
REINFORCED CONCRETE TELE
GRAPH POLES.
An interesting comparison between 
wooden and reinforced concrete tele
graph poles was made by the blizzard 
of March 2. The storm center was 
in and about New York City, the wind 
blowing there with a velocity of 
eighty miles per hour.
The Pennsylvania Railroad has two 
hundred and two reinforced concrete 
poles near the New Jersey entrance 
to the Hudson tunnels. They con
clusively demonstrated their superior
ity over the ordinary wooden poles. 
Not one of the poles was broken, al
though the strains produced by the 
ice-coated wires, in some instances, 
broke the wooden cross-arms. Even 
greater loss than that occasioned by 
snow drifts was caused by the wind 
and sleet on telegraph wires and poles. 
The sight of miles after miles of tele
graph wires tangled together in a 
snow drift, was sufficient to cause 
wonderment as to whether it would 
not be more economical to expend a 
greater initial capital on more substan
tial construction of poles, which 
would withstand the elements better 
than cheaper wooden ones.
The reinforced-concrete poles range 
in length from thirty to sixty-five feet, 
and are about twelve inches in diam
eter. The poles are made in a form, 
and erected after drying; they are 
wound with wire the total length and 
have wooden cross-arms.
The cost of them is one of the sur
prising features. The cost of the con
crete pole in place being only slightly 
in excess of the cost of the wooden 
poles in place.
Engineering Record.
The Schenley Ball Room was the 
scene of the Annual Dance of the 
Beta Theta Epsilon Fraternity of Car
negie Institute of Technology last 
Wednesday evening. Members of the 
active Chapter, Alumni of the Fra
ternity, patronesses and members of 
the Faculty gathered in the foyer at 
nine oclock and from then until two 
the Tango, Hesitation and One-step 
ruled. Each of the Fraternity Chap
ters at Tech, Sigma Tau, Sigma Rho, 
Zeta Lambda Epsilon, Xi Sigma Upsilon and Theta Xi had a representative 
as guest of Beta Theta Epsilon and 
the Fraternity banners formed the 
scheme of decoration.
At midnight supper was served in 
the dining room.
The patronesses were Mrs. Arthur 
A. Hamerschlag, Mrs. John H. Leete, 
Mrs. Henry Me. Goodwin, Miss Breed, 
Mrs. Wm. K. Hart, Jr.
The serving of a pseudo punch 
brought to the attention of those pres
ent the fact that it was all fools 
day.
Music was furnished by Scalzo.
ENTERTAINMENT.
The Margaret Morrison Dramatic 
and Glee Club will give their annual 
spring play and concert on Friday 
evening, May 8th, in the new Design 
School Theater. The play will be 
Seidermanns Far-away Princess. 
Tickets may be obtained by subscrip
tion! Details concerning them will be 
announced later.
PROPOSED CABLEWAY ACROSS 
NIAGARA FALLS 
WHIRLPOOL.
Concessions were granted to a Span
ish company by the Canadian Govern
ment on November 17, 1913, for the 
construction of a passenger aerial 
cableway over the whirlpool, situated 
about six miles below Niagara Falls, 
on Canadian territory. The design and 
operation is similar, on a great scale, 
to a cableway in operation near San 
Sebastian, Spain.
The terminals of the line are 1770 
feet apart, and are at the same eleva
tion, that is, 250 feet above the whirl
pool. The 50-passenger car has been 
constructed. It consists of a frame
work of metallic tubing, from which is 
suspended by radial wires, in tension, 
the body of the car. There are two 
axles, each of which has 6 metal-spoke 
sheave wheels (three on each side).
Six 1 ^4-inch cables support the car 
and another hauls it back and forth. 
A set of three cables is placed on each 
side of the car, and in case one parts, 
the car would be carried by the re
maining five. These cables are placed 
on the outside of the framework as a 
safeguard in the event of one parting. 
Each cable will be attached separately 
to an anchorage at one end, and at the 
other end will pass around a sheave to 
a movable counterweight. As the 
cableway is balanced by the counterP. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modern exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh. 
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily.
WEVE FITTED FEET OYER FORTY YEARS. 
THE UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER
Has No Rivals IN SPEED AND ACCURACY
IT HOLDS ALL WORLDS RECORDS 
IN OPEN COMPETITION
THE MACHINE YOU WILL EVENTUALLY BUY
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INCORPORATED 
Underwood Building, New York
Branches in all Principal Cities
H ATS-mi mm mm >wm
AND
n.I7 1pVIo79oIN7
6 IOO P.ENN AVENUE, .x & ' - - - '_______________. - ...  
weights, the weight of the car does 
not increase the tension in the cables, 
although the weight due to passengers 
will, of course, increase the deflection. 
The counterweights are designed to 
present a stress in the cables wThich ex
ceeds one-third their tensile strength. 
An endless cable, counterweighted at 
one end and driven by a motor at the 
other station, hauls the car.
On each axle, there is a tractor 
wheel, along which runs the hauling 
cable. The direction of travel is de
termined by means of a controller, 
acting through sprocket chains to 
single-direction jaw clutches upon 
each axle. In case of stalling, a safety 
car is provided to run out on the line. 
Engineering News.
CHOCOLATES
PAINFUL.
This, said the guide, who was 
piloting a bunch of tourists through 
Egypt, as he pointed to the mummy, 
was a high priest, the wisest man of 
his day. He lived to a great age. 
Was his last illness fatal? asked 
the wag of the bunch.
Of course it was, answered the 
guide, with a look of pity at the other.
Thats queer, rejoined the waggish 
person. His appearance would seem 
to indicate that he was permanently 
cured.
OUR MESSENGER
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S.
Our Advertisers Deserve Yorr 
Patronage
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

8(Hartan
AT THE THEATRES. 
Next Week.
DUQUESNEELEVATING A 
HUSBAND.
Those who were fortunate enough 
to witness the tabloid version of El
evating a Husband by Louis Mann 
and his company at the Grand Opera 
House week before last will be elated 
to learn that Mr. Harry Davis has se
cured the exclusive rights for this 
side-splitting domestic comedy drama 
and that the play in its entirety, will 
be the offering of the Harry Davis 
Players at the Duquesne for the week 
beginning Monday matinee, April 20, 
and continuing twice daily. The play 
here will be a complete reproduction 
of the famous metropolitan represen
tation, and it will be the first presen
tation of the play complete in Pitts
burgh.
GRAND.
Pittsburghers who are dance mad 
will herald with delight the announce
ment that Mr. Harry Davis has se
cured the exclusive rights to exhibit 
in this territory the remarkable mov
ing pictures of Mr. and Mrs. Vernon 
Castle, Americas foremost expon 
ents of society danCes.
A variety of other attractions are 
included in the bill.
PITT THEATRE.
Norman Hackett, the new leading 
man of the Pitt Players, is making 
his debut at the Pitt theater, Pitts
burgh, this week in The Tempera
mental Journey, a comedy by Leo 
Ditrichstein.
The week of April 20 will be note
worthy in the Pitt theater when there 
will be given here a production of 
Alice Bradleys celebrated drama 
,The Governors Ladjr.
Vernon Castle as headliners. 
LyceumOscar and Adolf.
PittThe Governors Lady. 
Carnegie Music HallApril 17, Fri
day, Mozart Club; Russian Sym
phony Orchestra.
MUSICAL CLUBS NOTICE.
Dont forget the P. C. W. concert 
tomorrow night (Friday, 17th). Come 
and bring your girl. Dance afterward. 
No excuse, now. Lents over. Tell 
your friend about it and make him 
come across.
BASEBALL!
The first performance Thursday 
night, April 23rd, of the Two Gen
tlemen of Verona, to be given by the 
students in the Dramatic Department 
of the School of Applied Design, will 
be for Trustees, members of the Fac
ulty and specially invited friends. On 
Friday night the theatre will be open 
to the students of the four schools 
and a performance will be given for 
the members of the faculty of our own 
and other educational institutions and 
for specially invited friends.
The Senior Mechanicals have again 
organized and are willing to play any 
all-star teams around the school.
It will be remembered that our 
wonderful team had a record season 
last year, not a game being lost. We 
have some new material this year and 
hope to duplicate our feat.
For games address Manager B. D. 
Eisenberg, Senior Mechanical.
INDUSTRIES NEW CLUB ROOM.
ATTENDS CONVENTION.
AT THE THEATRESNext Week.
NixonJoseph and His Brethren. 
AlvinEmma Trentini in The Fire
fly.
DuquesneElevating a Husband. 
GrandVaudeville, with Mr. and Mrs.
BENNETT'S
WHATS IN A HAT?
Depends on who wears it. The amount of style and good appearance it has de
pends on WHERE YOU GET IT.
All the right spring styles in Soft and Stiff Hats, popular priced, $3 and $4.
Christy s' London Hats, Dunlaps New York Hats 
the finest in the worldsell for the even $5.00
BENNETT
MEANS
BEST."J. G. BENNETT & (0.
WOOD
AND
FIFTH
Forbes Quality Shop
Corner Forbes and Bouquet Street
LUNCHES
CANDY, SODA, CIGARS, MAGAZINES
Within a week the Industries stu
dents can boast of a club room equal 
to any in the Institution.
The committee appointed to pur
chase the furniture have fulfilled their 
appointment, and while this article is 
going to press the furniture is on its 
way to Pittsburgh.
Owing to lack of funds everything 
desirable for a club room could not 
be purchased, but they did succeed in 
getting the necessary articles such as 
tables, chairs and wall benches.
If the minstrel show that is to be 
given by the students under the leader
ship of Wm. Randal, proves to be a 
success, it wrill mean rugs, pictures a 
large pennant, curtains, and such ar
ticles that will give the room a better 
appearance.
The way to make this minstrel show 
a success is to come out to rehearsals 
and stick out, and make it possible 
for the committee to get these re
maining articles of comfort.
Dean Connelley attended the con
vention of the Eastern Art and Man
ual Training Teachers Association, 
held in Atlantic City, April 9th, 10th 
and 11th. He presided over the Sat
urday morning session, when the fol
lowing topics were discussed by wellknown educators: Vocational Courses 
in the High School, The Supervisor 
as an Art Influence in the Commun
ity, and The Training of Taste 
Through Printing. The school has 
an interesting photographic display of 
its shops and laboratories on exhibit 
tion.
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology: Pittsburgh
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and student body.
School of Applied Science. Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Design. Offers courses in architecture 
decoration, illustration, painting and music, open to both men 
and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. For women. Offers 
courses in household economies, secretarial work, costume 
economies, home arts and crafts and teachers courses, leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Industries. Offers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation. Short courses are offered in the various trades. 
Also a course for the training of industrial teachers, leading to 
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Vocational Education.
Night Courses. The four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational oppor
tunities for those who are at work during the day.
For Further Information Address 
Registrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology
If 11 nr Given by the Glee and Mandolin Clubs of the Penna.
/ Ji L College for Women, and the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, in the Assembly Hall, Penna. College for Women, Friday, April 24th, 1914, at 8 oclock P. M.
Admission 50 cents.
