Tartan Wins Honors 
At National Contest
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53NUMBER 9 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1959
BesteZinni of Tech catching flip from Muth before racing around right end. Jim Baker, mud covered 
Tartan on right, is shown blocking. Westminster won 14-12. See story on page 8.
Campus Center Will 
Contain Religious Unit
< Carnegie Tech has received $10,000 from the PitcairnCrabbe Foundation to equip a religious activities unit in the 
new Campus Activities Center.
To be known as the Pitcairn-Crabbe Religious Activities
Unit, the facilities will be used4-----------------------------------------------------
for various activities of the many 
religious groups and organizations 
on the Carnegie campus.
President Warner observed that:
This grant is only the most re
cent evidence of the Pitcairnwabbe Foundations long interest 
in the development of religious 
life on our campus. Carnegie Tech 
recognizes the importance of as
sisting students of the several 
fa'ths to develop in their religious 
be^efs. The Pitcairn-Crabbe Ac
tivities Unit will be a meaningful 
addition towards a fuller campus 
life for the student.
He added that we have many 
activities on the campus centered 
Cund religious affairs and spon
sored by these groups: Canterbury 
Club, Christian Science Organi
zation, Eastern-Orthodox Campus 
Fellowship, Emerson Club, Gam
ma Delta, Hillel Foundation, Luth
eran Student Association, Newman 
Club, Roger Williams Fellowship,
Teknon Club, Wesley Fellowship,
Westminster Foundation, Y.M.C.A., 
and Y.W.C.A.
Now under construction, the 
'%),850,000 Campus Activities Cen
ter is expected to be completed by 
September, 1960. It will provide 
food service for students and fac
ulty, new quarters for the Place
ment Bureau, a ballroom for so
cial affairs, a faculty club, stu
dent publication offices, and quar
ters for the campus radio station.
Student Congress 
Meeting Today
There will be a Student 
Congress meeting on Wed
nesday, November 18 at 4:30 
in 100 Porter Hall.
j Assembly
There will be no all-Tech 
assembly this coming Tues
day, November 24, due to the 
Thanksgiving recess.
The next assembly will be 
held on December 8. Mr. N. 
Russel Bintzcr will be the 
speaker.
Alfred Noble Prize Is 
Awarded Dr. Shewmon
Paul G. Shewmon, Assistant Professor of Metallurgical 
Engineering has been awarded the Alfred Noble Prize for 
1959.
The award consists of a cash prize of $500 with a cer
tificate of merit. It was granted#-------------------------------------------------
to Dr. Shewmon on the basis of Tenneggee EditOF
Discusses Souths 
Greatest Problem
the technical excellence of his 
paper The Redistribution of a 
Second Phase During Annealing 
in a Temperature Gradient, pub
lished in the Transactions of the 
Metallurgical Society of the Amer
ican Institute of Mining, Metal
lurgical, and Petroleum Engineers 
(AIME).
Established in 1929
Established In 1929 in honor of 
the late Alfred Noble, past Presi
dent of the American Society of 
Civil Engineers and of the West
ern Society of Engineers, in order 
to perpetuate his name and 
achievements, the award is given 
annually to a member of the afore
mentioned societies as well as the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers and the American So
ciety of Mechanical Engineers.
The award is given for a tech
nical paper of exceptional merit, 
provided the author has not passed 
his 31st birthday at the time the 
paper is submitted.
Dr. Shewmon received his bach
elor of Science degree from the 
University of Illinois in 1952. He 
received his Ph.D. from Carnegie 
Tech in 1955. From 1955 to 1958 
when he joined the Tech faculty, 
he was a Research Engineer at the 
Westinghouse Research Labora
tories.
A Southern Editor Speaks His 
Mind was the topic of the ad
dress given by Mr. Martin Ochs 
at the Carnegie Tech student as
sembly on Tuesday, Novenber 17. 
Mr. Ochs, editor of the Chatta
nooga Times, discussed how the 
South is treating the problems 
that were created by the Supreme 
Court order to desegregate public 
schools.
Compliance with the integration 
order will come about, according 
to Mr. Ochs, because of regard 
for the publi? school systems, not 
desire to comply with the Su
preme Court demands.
Mr. Ochs also stated that radio, 
television, and newspapers must 
take an active part in the dis
cussion of the issue. Enough has 
not been done by radio and tele
vision in presenting editorial 
stands on the problem; newspa
pers, on the other hand, have been 
successful in presenting all the 
sides of the issue.
Last weekend in a newspaper contest which was part of 
Pi Delta Epsilons national convention, the Carnegie Tartan 
received honorable mention, placing third in its division of 
schools of undergraduate enrollment between 2,500 and 4,000.
Pi Della Epsilon, national jour-4 
nalism honorary, was host to
members of college publications 
from throughout the country at 
Lehigh University. The represen
tatives from Tech were Frank Baloh and Jim Whalen from the 
Tartan and Edward Blum from 
the Technical.
The purpose of the convention 
was an attempt to solve the 
various journalistic problems that
Wild Rog Rutman 
To Perform At 
Next Record Hop
The special musical feature at 
this weeks hop will be the popu
lar comedy guitar of Rog Rutman, 
known to WRCT listeners through 
his Romp With Rog radio show 
every Wednesday night (11:00 
p.m. to 1:00). His selections at 
the hop will be the type of songs 
which are of proven popularity at 
campus parties. Rog performed at 
several Dorm Social League par
ties earlier this year. Although 
little known to Pittsburgh audi
ences, Rog spends his summer 
week-ends as entertainer at an 
east coast night club.
This weeks hop will be the last 
one before Thanksgiving and will 
make use of a recently acquired 
Hi-Fi sound system. The hops 
now include not only good dance 
music but also high quality sound 
reproduction. Immediately after 
the Thanksgiving vacation, the 
hops will continue playing an 
ever increasing assortment of fine 
dance music.
give difficulty to journalistic or
ganizations and to give advice to 
delegates as to ways in which they 
might improve their publications.
The highlight of the convention 
was the golden anniversary ban
quet. After the meal the winners 
of the publications contest were 
announced.
Governor Robert Meyner oi 
New Jersey gave a short address 
at the banquet, followed by a 
question and answer session, giv
ing the college journalists an op
portunity to question a possible 
presidential candidate first-hand
Changes In Sight 
For This Yearns 
Spring Carnival
Although Spring Carnival might 
be limited in certain aspects, we 
will have music! At a special 
meeting of Student Congress call
ed last week, the budget for our 
carnival weekend was set at $9500. 
This includes $7700 for a band on 
Saturday night and entertainment 
for Friday evening.
In previous years, the entertain
ment for Friday evening has con
sisted of a jazz concert. However, 
this year Congress is planning to 
have a different and better type 
of entertainment  perhaps 
something like a night club group.
Last year, tickets for Friday 
and Saturday night were priced at 
$5.00. However, this year, with 
the hopes of obtaining top name 
entertainment, Congress has stip
ulated that the tickets are not to 
exceed $7.50.
Dr. Warner Will Conclude Y 
This I Believe Forum Series
President Warner will speak on Science and Religion 
this Thursday, November 19, at 4:30 p.m. in the living room 
of Carnegie Union. He is appearing in the This I Believe 
series, sponsored by the Tech Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.
The initial idea for tomorrows#-----------------------------------------------------
talk came from the Freshman Re
ligious Orientation Assembly in 
September. President Warner was 
participating in a student-faculty 
panel answering questions for 
freshmen about religious life at 
Carnegie. One question was asked 
about the conflict of science and 
religion. Dr. Warner, as a sci
entist, volunteered to answer the 
question, and after he finished he 
made the comment that sometime 
in th_ future when more time was 
available, he would be willing to 
discuss this question more fully 
with any freshmen who were in
terested. The Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A., feeling that others be
sides freshmen would be inter
ested in participating in this dis
cussion, asked Dr. Warner to par
ticipate in their regular Forum se
ries.
All Carnegie students and fac
ulty members, whether or not they 
are members of the Tech Y.M.C.A. 
or Y.W.C.A., are welcome to at
tend this Forum. The Forum will 
run from 4:30-5:45 p.m., followed 
by a dinner. For those wishing to 
attend the dinner, reservations 
must be made in the Y Office, sec
ond floor, Carnegie Union, no later 
than 10:00 Thursday morning. The 
cost of the dinner is 85c for Y 
members and $1.25 for non-mem
bers.
President Warners talk is the 
concluding one in the This I Be
lieve series. Dean Rice of Fine 
Arts and Professor Ward of the 
History Department have been 
previous speakers. This series has 
been presented by the Tech 
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. in the at
tempt to provide an opportunity 
for students to become better ac
quainted with members of the fac
ulty. Each speaker has been asked 
to share with the group some of 
his personal thinking on what he 
considers to be the central issues 
of value and belief from within 
the perspective of his own aca
demic discipline.


---------------------------------------------------

Fage 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 18, 1959
Coed Of DL Week
Joan Baient
Sophomore Painting and Design Major
Bashien
Program Highlighting 
Engineering Research
A special program of interest 
to those in the field of technology 
is presented every Sunday evening 
at 7:30 on WCAE.
It is an Engineering News Re
port sponsored by Milwaukee
Crane Co., Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
It highlights the fields of research 
and engineering. Dr. Meredith P. 
Crawford, Director of the Human 
Resources Research Office at
George Washington University,
was guest on a recent broadcast. 
He reported that the majority of 
research and development pro
grams concerned with hardware 
of army equipment were inade
quate because the effectiveness 
of the equipment is limited to the 
skill of the men who operate or 
repair it.
Research
This necessitated research on 
human motivation, training, and 
leadership to improve army 
training, to improve proficiency of 
the soldier, decrease training 
time, and cut costs. Results of the 
studies have included new teach
ing methods, improvement in 
training, teaching leadership by 
use of sound movies, and new 
methods of teaching radar tech
niques.
The research group had to deCameron Choir 
Gives Concert
Cameron Choir, under the di
rection of Mr. Richard Camp, 
gave their first concert of the 
1959-60 season to the North Hills 
High School student and faculty 
body last Friday, November 13.
The concert consisted of the 
following songs: The Music Mak
ers, Balm of Gilead (June 
Helmers, soloist), Tchaikovskys 
Cherubim Song, Ride the 
Chariot, Spelling School, Ju
bilation, Once in Love with 
Amy, and selected songs from j ? 
**My Fair Lady. The program 5 
closed with the choirs singing of  
Tech songs and the Alma Mater. 1
termine for any job exactly what 
the man does, what he has to 
know, the tools he uses and 
problems he has to solve. When 
a new program is developed it is 
tested for realistic application. 
The findings are proving valuable 
to the Army, as well as other 
services, and industrial life.
Reports
Other highlights of the Engi
neering News Report included re
ports on the works of Russian 
scientists, news in the field of 
automation in the increasing use 
of machines for low production 
plants, the explorations by John 
Harrison below the Gulf of Cal
ifornia which may lead to new 
oil discoveries beneath the sea, 
and recent developments in digital 
computors built by Iowa State 
University, the University of Il
linois and other universities en
gaged in computor research.
The Engineering News Report 
is a program worthy of your time 
and interest.
CJLestate 
C^ulturaf
(baleniliar
By Maxine Brown
Theres no symphony this week 
end, so all of you culture vul 
tures will have to find some other 
diversions.
One possibility is the concert 
which the music department is 
presenting this week. Tonight, in 
the Fine Arts Exhibition Hall, at 
8:30, Patricia Prattis and Ralph 
Zitterbart, pianoists, will per
form. Sunday night, November 
22, at 8:00, Sigma Alpha Iota, the 
womens music sorority, will pre
sent its members in an American 
Musicale. Roy Harris is just one 
of the American composers whose 
works will be heard.
Jazz-wise, Dave Brubeck, Chris 
Connors, and other names will be 
here on Saturday night, Novem
ber 21, at Syria Mosque. It looks 
as if this should be quite an in
teresting show.
The Rehearsal opens also on 
Saturday night in the Little The
ater of Fine Arts.
Thats all! Happy Turkey time!
The Rehearsal 
To Open Saturday
Carnegie Techs second main 
stage production, The Rehears
al, directed by Charles Werner 
Moore, will open November 21.
Written in post-war France by 
Jean Anouilh, The Rehearsal is 
a love story which breaks the ex
isting social barriers in France. 
It is the drama of an unhappily 
married count who finds truth and 
happiness in his love for his chil
drens governess. He realizes this 
affection while rehearsing a play 
in which the young girl is cast  
a rehearsal that brings out the 
true extremes of those involved.
Director
Director Charles Werner Moore, 
assistant professor of drama, has 
written for the AETA Journal and 
Theatre Arts Magazine. He served 
last year as the advisor to the 
popular Scotch n Soda club. 
Among the many notable plays 
which Mr. Moore has directed at 
Tech are The Crucible, Right 
You Are, and Measure for 
Measure. In The Rehearsal, he 
has cast Tech seniors Tom Denis, 
Pat Hamilton, and Angela DeAmbrosia.
The Rehearsal will play ten 
performances in the Fine Arts 
Theatre at 8:15 p.m. from Novem
ber 21 through December 3.
Student tickets are now being 
distributed in the drama depart
ment office.
Skibo, 1958-1959
. By Robert Schwarz 
Dept, of History
Shortly before you opened your doors 
A great event took place.
Revolution in Russia was in its course 
To change the worlds face.
Like you, dictatorship was to be 
A temporary stage.
Nevertheless, as one can see,
It grew into old age.
But our way wins, as I knew it would;
For Skibo disappears.
By pro tem the Russians mean for good, 
While we mean 41 years.
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest
Enter the 
WRITE 
Contest
Name............
Address..........
Phone.............
Submitted by
JUST A REMINDER . . .
Goldenfeld's Market
IS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OF 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Meats
At 414 S. Craig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELD. Prop.
Skiboo,195o8
MsShuiman
(By the author of Rally Round, the Flag, Boys, 
/ Was a Teen-age Dwarf, etc.)
Following is a list of courses with suggested methods to speed 
up each one.
PHYSICSEliminate slow neutrons.
PSYCHOLOGY LABTilt the mazes downhill. The white 
mice will run much faster.
ENGINEERINGMake slide rules half as long.
MUSIC  Change all tempos to allegro. (An added benefit 
to be gained from this suggestion is that once you speed up 
waltz time, campus proms will all be over by ten p.m. With 
students going home so early, romance will languish and mar
riage counsellors can be transferred to the Buildings and 
Grounds Department. Also, houses now used for married 
students can be returned to the School of Animal Husbandry.)
ALGEBRAIf X always equals twenty-four, much time* 
consuming computation can be eliminated.
DENTISTRYSkip baby teeththey fall out anyhow.
POETRYAmalgamate the classics. Like this;
Hail to thee blithe spirit 
Shoot if you must this old gray head 
You aint nothin but a hound dog 
Smiling, the boy fell dead
You see how simple it is? Perhaps you have some speedup 
ideas of your own. If so Ill thank you to keep them to your
selves.  ism Mu Sbuimaa
The Philip Morris Company, makers of Philip Morris, Marlboros and Alpine, have no interest in speedup. We age our 
line tobaccos slow and easy. And thaVs the way they smoke 
slow and easy and full of natural tobacco goodness.
FASTER, FASTER!
College enrollment continues to spiral upward. The need for 
more classrooms and more teachers grows more desperate daily.
But classrooms, alas, do not spring up like mushroomsnor 
teachers like May flies. So what must we do while we build more 
classrooms and train more teachers? We must get better use out 
of the classrooms and teachers we now have. Thats what we 
must do.
This column, normally a vehicle of good-humored foolery, 
will today forsake laughter to examine the crisis in higher 
education. My sponsors, the makers of Philip Morris Cigarettes, 
as bonny a bunch of tycoons as you will see in a month of Sun
days, have given cheerful consent to this departure. Oh, 1 > 
splendid chaps they arethe makers of Philip Morris, fond of 
home, mother, porridge, the Constitution and country fiddling! 
Twinkly and engaging they are, as full of joy, as brimming with 
goodness, as loaded with felicity as the cigarettes they bring 
you in two handy packagesthe traditional soft pack and the 
crushproof flip-top box.
How can we make better use of existing campus facilities? The 
answer can be given in one wordspeedup! Speed up the educa
tional proce^  streamline courses. Eliminate frills. Sharpen. 
Shorten. Quicken. ^
3

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 18, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPase S
Newman Club
Fun and relaxation fill the 
Newman Club calendar this week
end. On.Friday, November 20, the 
Newman Club will sponsor a 
Harvest Ball. This dance will 
be held at Newman Hall from 8-
12. Come Saturday, November 21, 
a Spaghetti Dinner and Dance 
will be sponsored by PIFSCO. 
Dinner will begin at 7:00 p.m. in 
Central Catholic High School with 
the dance immediately following 
at Newman Hall. Tickets are 
$1.00.
And for all members who have 
the urge to travel, learn, and 
socialize this week-end  this is 
Hershey Week-end! For further 
information call A1 Ogrodske at 
Mu. 2-8505 or Joe Latik at Ho. 1- 
5056.
WILDROOT CREAM OILKEEPS HAIR GROOMED LONGER!
MAKES HAIR FEEL STRONGER!
BULLETIN BOARD
' Film Arts
^This Thursdays Film Arts So
ciety presentation is a French 
Comedy, Le Million, produced 
in 1930 and directed by Rene 
Claire. The dialogue is completely 
in French and the film has no 
English sub-titles. However there 
is no language barrier because 
the comedy is so universal. Le 
Million will be shown tomor
row at 4:30 and 7:45 in 100 Porter 
11.
IM Society
The Industrial Management So
ciety of Carnegie Tech io pleased 
to announce its second meeting of 
the year, Wednesday, Novem
ber 18.
Speaking at the meeting will be 
Robert E. Mortenson, general 
manager of WIIC-TV, who will 
discuss television as a promo
tional medium. His presentation 
will also be concerned with the 
management function in a medium-size business, and therefore 
promises to be a very interesting 
and informative talk.
The meeting will be held at 7:30 
p.m. in the G.S.I.A. auditorium, 
and any interested persons are 
cordially invited to attend.
International Club
Socialism is doomed in Britain 
but will succeed in America. Dr. 
Meltzes and Dr. Farrell, who are 
on the faculty of G.S.I.A., and 
David Hall and Benoy Chakraverty, graduate students, will discuss 
this subject. All four are very 
well informed and entertaining 
speakers.
Any interested persons are wel
come  this applies especially to 
Americans.
The meeting will be held in the 
Carnegie Union at 8:00 p.m. Re
freshments will be served.
Emerson Club
What factors should you con
sider in building a philosophy of 
life? Dr. Paul Ward, head' of the 
history department will offer one 
answer with World Mindedness
 Detrimental, Unimportant or 
Indispensable? at Sundays Emogson Club meeting.
Join area college students Sun
day, November 22, for a dinner 
at 5:00 at the First Unitarian 
Church (Ellsworth and Morewood). Dr. Wards talk at 6:00 
will be the second in this series, 
which should vitally interest 
every thinking person. A social 
hour will follow the talk and dis
cussion period.
Surface hair tonics merely coat your 
hair. When they dry off, your hair dries 
out. But the exclusive Wildroot Cream-Oil 
formula penetrates your hair. Keeps hair 
groomed longer.. .makes hair feel stronger 
than hair groomed an ordinary w^y. 
Theres no other hair tonic formula like it.
Roger Williams
Two Tech students, Bill Carr 
and David Crozier, will review 
Julian Huxleys book, Religion 
Without Revelation on Thursday, 
November 19, at 7:15 in the base
ment of the First Baptist Church, 
corner of Bellefield and Bayard 
Streets. Dinner (80 cents per per
son) will be served at 6:15. Reser
vations may be obtained by call
ing MA 1-7821. Everyone is cor
dially invited
MAKE HAIR OBEY ALL DAY 
WITH WILDROOT CREAM-OILt
^ Engineering Theater
The sponsors of Engineering 
Theater wish to thank the student 
body for the fine attendance at 
its November 10 feature. Free 
movies will continue to be pre
sented at 12:30 every Tuesday in 
Porter Hall 100. In order to 
maintain continued interest in 
their presentations, the sponsors 
will make every effort to obtain 
movies of interest to all E&S stu
dents.
Home Ec Club
The Home Economics Club will 
meet Wednesday, November 18, 
1959, at 3:30 p.m. in Mary Breed 
Hall. Miss Verna Volz, the campus 
YWCA director, will speak on 
Home Furnishings in Thialand. 
The club invites all Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College stu
dents to attend this meeting.
Refreshments will be served in 
the Jane Fales Room following 
the meeting, *
get off 
your 
pad, dad,
Mark Oollard (center) discusses an impending customer service problem with two of his supervisors.
Theres a message for you 
Mark Dollards progress storyGO GREYHOUND
(for out-of-this-wor/d savingsI)
services to businessmen and supervising a 
business office.
It was the companys vigorous growth 
that created the opportunity for me to be
come District Manager in January, 1959, 
Mark points out.
What I like most about my present posi
tion is the variety of managerial responsi
bilities 1 have, he says. Its interesting, 
stimulating work. I deal with sales and 
marketing programs, handle personnel 
problems and make a lot of public rela
tions contacts.
Mark C. Dollard earned his B.A. degree 
in English from Yale University in June, 
1955. He joined the New York Telephone 
Company the following July 18th. Three 
and a half years later, he became a Dis
trict Manager for the company in New 
York Citywith a staff of 87 people re
porting to him and responsibility for
49,000 customer accounts.
Marks choice of a telephone career came 
after numerous job interviews in a variety 
of business fields. What sold me, he 
says, was the telephone companys repu
tation for solid managerial training, sta
bility and growth. And I was impressed 
by the high caliber of people I met during 
my visit to the company.
And those are the things to which Mark 
credits his rapid advancement. His train
ing during his first two years covered a 
wide range of activities ... including the 
handling of customer contacts in the 
business office, selling communications
No, there's no Greyhound 
Scenicruiser Service to 
outer spaceyet. But if 
youre rocketing home for 
the holidays, there's no 
better way to go! It costs 
less than driving your own 
jalopy, too. With this exclu
sive Greyhound Service, 
you get morepay less. 
Get in orbit...goGreyhound.
COMPARE THESE LOW, 
LOW FARES:
Washington, D. C. . .$ 8.25
New York City........ 12.20
Chicago....................... 14.05
Cleveland ............. 4.60
*p!us tax
The message for you? Stability, growth, 
systematic training and genuine advance
ment opportunities all add up to rewarding 
careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. 
Be sure to look into the opportunities for 
you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when 
he visits your campus  and read the Bell 
Telephone booklet on file in your Place
ment Office. You'll like what you learn.
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a 
Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package 
Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
It's such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us I
Ticket Agent at 
Grant at Liberty 
Downtown, Pgh. 
EX. 1-2300

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 18, 1959
Editorial
How to Improve Tech Publications
At Lehigh University this past weekend Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalism hon
orary, was host to representatives of college newspapers from many of the colleges of 
United States. Amid an air of much discussion and mutual benefit, one fact seemed to 
stand out above all others.
That is, if Carnegie Tech ever hopes to permanently raise and maintain high stand
ards of journalism on its campus, it must begin to give the editors and staff members of 
publications greater incentive and reward than it now does. It is assumed that the Car
negie Tech administration and student body are desirous of having publications of the school 
first rate in comparison to other schools. The merits of such a status seem self-evident.
The editors and staff members of Tech publications find little motivation to do an 
outstanding job. To cite glory and recognition as strong motives would be an insult to 
anyone who works on these publications. About all that one can find to induce these 
people to do a good job is the sense of personal satisfaction of having been personally re
sponsible for a job well done and having served ones fellow student. Back in these 
peoples minds is the hope that they are gaining invaluable experience in dealing with 
people and organizations. Nevertheless, with a full load of academics facing these indi
viduals, the above mentioned motives become rather small. An outstanding newspaper, 
yearbook or what have you, is poor compensation for the many hours of study time and 
sleep that are invariably lost.
What is needed is not greater praise and glory for editors and staff members. The 
fault does not lie with the universal scapegoat of campus problemsstudent apathy, as 
many would have one believe. Those who write and edit campus publications do not need 
pep rallys before they retire to the Union to do their jobs. What is needed is a recognition 
of the time and effort that these people devote. This recognition can come in the form of 
a lightened list of course requirements and also in financial form.
Inquiry at the recent convention revealed that almost a majority of the editors and 
editorial board members of college newspapers receive some sort of remuneration. The 
editor of the bimonthly of Clarkspn College, a school smaller than Tech, receives an an
nual salary of $1,000. Typical of many schools is Colorado University where the editor 
and editorial staff receive salaries ranging from $10 to $55 per month for their work upon 
the biweekly of that school. This is a school about twice the size of Tech. Of course many 
of these schools have departments of journalism. But this only lessens the works that 
people in these schools must do in comparison to that done in schools like Tech. A great 
majority, it seems of all schools spend proportionately more on newspapers than does Tech. 
This is one thing that Tech should follow, instead of letting Student Congress merely reas
sign the Tartan last years appropriation when budget time rolls around. We all realize 
that it is hard to find sources of money for such enterprises as salaries and budgets, but 
nevertheless, such things must be planned for in the future if, the quality of Techs pub
lications is to reach up and remain high.
Even if money was out of the question, there is something very definite that Tech 
could do in the near future to aid the staffs of the publications here on campus. That is to 
do as a vast number of other schools do: count significant work on publications in place 
of the equivalent of Techs senior social relations course. This substitution of work on a 
publication, (above a certain high level on the staff) for senior social relations electives 
would serve many purposes. It would be an incentive to do quality work, it would pro
vide more time for senior staff members to do their job, and it would indicate that the 
school in sincerely interested in its student publications.
Even more, the individuals who would be getting excused from senior social rela
tion courses would not be losing anything. The experience and knowledge picked up while 
working on a publication is far beyond that which can be gained from such courses. The 
well-roundedness that such work offers far exceeds that which any course can ever offer.
J.D.S.
ISAfr ir good Ca Bf 
INDIVI V UALS 
/'M SO G/AP Wf po/v r
CO/VTORM To THt /?fsr CF 
iouery. / would FttL. 
so STti-TED IF / HAD TQ 
Follow all OF So<.lTy'$ 
SILLY Stuude nCSeog
! PKSFfR TO toAKF my 
O l/V/V fwf!; Ta oe
MY OWN ffpss; to 
MY OWN *'
CJl#S; TO OtCTATE
It' succhaao cF
HA VI R
ad
yuPt rtn Co edOf rtn On 
INDIVIDUAL, **d *er
enl or UVHAfPY
COA/FOAMISTS 
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by George B. Speluin *
Here Lies An Artist
The Epitaph for George Dillon, now the showcase of 
the Theater Upsairs of the Pittsburgh Playhouse, is a dis
course on the artist at odds with society. In many respects 
a truthful, and biting discourse, too; as we see the universal
motives and characteristics of the*---------------------------------------L
artist personified in a young Bri
tish playwright, George Dillon.
Dillon is shown as moody, temper
amental, and sensitives. He is 
searching for something deeper in 
life and loves that the common 
people around him. He is a young 
man who desperately tries to dis
tinguish between fantasy and real
ityfor he frequently acts off 
the stage as well as on it. George 
Dillon is the angry young man 
of our age. He is an artist.
Setting
The story is set in the Elliot 
family home in a suburb of Lon
don. The people who live in it 
make it a cold home. Invited by 
Mrs. Elliot, to take the place of 
her dead son, George is an actorplayright without a job or income.
There is really little plot to the 
bulk of his stay at the Elliots; but 
it shows us again and again that 
Georfge is fighting the people of 
the world the clinches and carica
tures, the robots who seem to do 
nothing more constructive than re
populating the earth. But in the 
end, the odds are too great, and 
George must submit and lower to 
conformity. He must sex up his 
play a bit to sell it, and must 
marry the young Elliot daughter 
against his will. The artist is suck
ed down the rest of society. In the 
end, it is he, the most meaning
ful and complex, who becomes the 
pawn.
Ably Acted
A perfect offbeat vehicle for the 
Theatre Upstairs, Goerge Dillion 
is ably acted by Playhouse veter
ans. Those in the play are mag
nified to personify the cliches 
of the world George is talking 
about| This is easily accomplished 
on the intimate Upstairs stage, 
where any acting seems too 
much. In difficult parts, Carmen 
Bonnacci as Dillon and Cyrn Mc
Connell as Mrs. Elliot do the play 
justice. The most contraversial 
performance was given by Court
enay Gentry, the aging unmarried 
aunt who is cold as ice. Jay Doyle 
glowed as the realistic and uncivil 
father. He is a fine actor, and 
made most out of the good lines 
he had. Brief visits by Jerry Mick
ey and Richard Galuppi, which 
point up the true helplessness of 
Dillon in society, are masterpieces 
of purposeful acting caricatures.
The Playhouse has given us an
other Upstairs hit.
I prefer to be more optimistic 
than authors John Osborne and
Anthony Creighton, who seem to 
say that io individualist, no artist 
cas survive in our society. The 
playwrights are accurate in much 
of the charcater of George, but 
I think they overlook the fact 
that a true artist, a devoted one, 
will not conform to the average 
so quickly. This is a noticeable 
oversight, but one they meant for 
us to think about. They are ceTj. 
tainly corect in recognizing so 
frankly the crucifiction of George 
Dillons, from both outer and in
ner forces. George Dillon should 
certainly stimulate thought in any 
artist who hasnt yet recited his 
own epitaph.
Backstage
There is certainly a lot of anti
cipation for the forthcoming 
Crime and Punishment. The 
Theatre Unlimited production h; V 
all indications of being excellent 
theatre . . . Film Arts members 
would be foolish to miss the Chap
lin program planned for December 
3. It is the first installment of an 
all-exclusive Chaplin trilogy never 
before seen in this country. . . P 
am quite willing to predict that 
Tom Denis as the count, in The 
Rehearsal will receive rave no
tices ... A condensation of Pro
fessor Wilmurts lecture on t^y( 
Greek Theatre: meant to be react, 
and not seen. . . Noted Tech grad, 
Alex Segal, is the director for the 
new Nixon play opening November 
30, Jollys Progress. Segal was 
put through grad school on Sctoch 
n Soda scholarships . . . Speaking 
of S n S, they are tickled pink to 
have this year as their faculty 
advisor, Mr. Hoffman, head of the 
department of drama . . . Here 
are a couple of ideas which migM 
help to clear up some of the mys
tery of Wild Strawberries: fish
ing is a familiar symbol which in
dicates the quest for the meaning 
of life; wild strawberries are very 
swept, but they dissolve in the 
mouth rapidly; a clock without 
hands usually symbolically means 
life without fullfilment; and a 
dream of ones death is frequently 
a sign that one anticipates death 
and now looks back to evaluate 
his life. Help any?. . . Emil Ja!2* 
nings drew ecstatic raves from 
Film Arts members last week in a 
thirty year-old picture, The Last 
Command. Jannings yas quite an 
actor in his day . . . Closing 
.thought: Line from Epitaph for 
George DillonTheres enough 
misery in the world without pay
ing for it. Pretty perceptive, eh?
-iARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tec  
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. v
Editor ................................................................................................Jeremiah D. SollivD
Associate Editor ....................................................................................... Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager.................................................................................... Adlesberg
Newt Editor........................ ................................................................. Jan Notopovtos
Assistant News Editor ..................................................................................... Phil James
Sports Editor ...................................................... ................................. Cho.k Vodvarka
Copy Editor ....................................................................................... Mary Ann Melto*
Kay out Editor....................................... .............. ..................................Jin Whales
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc,

---------------------------------------------------

AZUSA AND NEAft SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA * A SUBSIDIARY OF THE GENERAL TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY
 This page edited by Evening School Students of the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editors.Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
Wednesday, November IS, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Members of Nite
Mrs. Robert Ramsey
At Sterling College and Ander
son College Mrs. Ramsey has 
headed the speech department. 
Later while at Michigan State she 
was housemother of the worlds 
largest residence hall for men.
Sewing and keeping numerous 
K^apbooks are hobbies which she
The Pittsburgh Playhouse has 
announced a new policy which 
will permit any student (includ
ing evening students), upon pre
sentation of his I.D. card at the 
Playhouse box office, to obtain one 
admission to any regular dramatic 
production for $1.00. Admission 
for a musical production is $1.50. 
These rates are applicable only 
Monday through Friday and it is 
recommended that advance reser
vations be made to assure availa
bility of good seat locations.
Current productions are Who 
Was That Lady I Saw You With? 
in the Craft Avenue Theater, and 
Epitaph for George Dillon in the 
Theater Upstairs.
Sponsorship of Phi Gamma Pi 
Assumed By Mrs. R. Ramsey
Mrs. Robert S. Ramsey has officially assumed the spon
sorship of the sorority, Phi Gamma Pi. A graduate of 
Muskingum College, Mrs. Ramsey has been very active in 
speech and dramatics having directed numerous plays, in
cluding traveling companies. ?--------------------------------------------------
enjoys. But her main interest is 
that of making a home for her 
husband and two children, Mary 
Lou and Douglas.
Discount Rates 
At Playhouse
Newman Club To 
Attend Conference
Tech Nite Newman Club mem
bers will travel to Hershey, Pa. 
the weekend of November 20 to 
attend an annual education con
ference. The topicChurch and 
State; Where We Should Stand 
will contain discussion on the out
look of a Catholic on Church and 
State relations, also the possibility 
of a Catholic as president, censor
ship, and other touchy items.
The registration of three dollars 
will induce the Communion 
breakfast, mixer, Saturday night 
dance, and Conferences. Those at
tending will stay at the Cocoa Inn 
for $3.50 a night. The weekend 
will prove enjoyable as well as 
educational.
Evening Student 
Dinner Dance
C.I.T. Evening Student Council 
invites you to attend a 
Buffet Dinner Dance
- Date: Saturday, Nov. 28, 1959 
Time: 8:00 p.m.
riace: Mona Lisa Lounge 
4110 Brownsville Road 
Price: S2.50 a person
Thirty-five items will be in
cluded on the buffet. R.S.V.P. by 
purchasing your tickets in Mr. 
McKelways office or from any 
Student Council member.
Next Tartan 
December 9
The next issue of the Tartan 
will be published on Wednesday, 
December 9, following Thanks
giving vacation. Copy for publica
tion in this issue should be sub
mitted by Friday, December 4.
W8ao Make1 Ib, iom R),?
Popping corn contains water. When the water gets hot enough, 
the kernel explodes. Result: popcorn.
We're not passing this information along as a public 
service. Actually we're up to the same old game.
You see, popcorn makes most people thirsty.
Fortunately, when most people get thirsty 
they hanker for the good taste of Coca-Cola.
Wouldnt you like some popcorn right now?
C'moD now, wouldn't you?
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under oothortfy of The Coca-Cdo Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
7* Central Ave. HI I-TOI I
C. L. Hampton
Computer expert Chuck Hampton is a man 
w ith problems.
As head of our Avionics Divisions Com
puter Applications section, Hampton pits 
his analog and digital computers against 
the mathematical intricacies of infra-red 
research, optics, spectral background 
studies, feedback control and weapon sys
tem design.
At 30, with a BSEE from the University 
of Illinois, Chuck Hampton is a Senior 
Engineer. He typifies the progress made 
at Aerojet by younger men of technical 
distinction, in electronics and many other 
areas.
We think the challenge is imposing and 
the opportunity impressive.
An Aerojet-General representative will 
be on campus to discuss employment 
opportunities with you on ov. 20. 
Contact the placement office for details.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 18, 1959
// R O T C
Guidon
Editor: Ed Werner
Tech Scabbard 
And Blade Pledges 
Sixteen Honshons
Sixteen men were selected for 
pledging into Scabbard and Blade 
National Military Honorary last 
week. The men were selected 
from among the Juniors and SenScabbard And Blade 
Convention This Week
iors in the Advanced Corps of 
ROTC on the basis of evidence of 
active participation in school and 
military leadership potential.
The first pledge meeting was
J4,arnon-campus interviews
will be conducted Dec. 14,1959 by a senior member of the Hughes Research & 
Development Staff. Consult your College Placement Officer for an appointment.
iJh anhscj ivin cjMUSHU AIDiboAF b iSMPAHT
The local Scabbard and Blade companies from Carnegie 
Tech, Pitt, and Duquesne are acting as hosts for the National 
Scabbard and Blade Convention which begins tonight at the 
Penn Sheraton Hotel in downtown Pittsburgh.
Featured speaker for the affair^-----------------------------------------------------
is Major General Ralph A. Palladino of the Military Executive Re
serve Policy Board. He will speak 
at the main banquet Friday even
ing, which is just prior to the 
Grand Ball with music by Bill Le
roy and his orchestra from nine 
to one.
160 Delegates
Over two hundred delegates 
from 160 colleges throughout the 
nation are attending the conven
tion. These members of Scabbard 
and Blade, the National Military 
Honorary, represent the armed 
forces branches of ROTC: Army, 
Navy, and Air Force.
Th'i delegates will be officially 
welcomed to the city tomorrow 
morning by Mayor Thomas A. 
Gallagher and the Professors of 
Military Science and Tactics from 
the local universities, including 
Col. William E. Feeman from 
Tech. Expected honored guest for 
the convention is Major General 
Ralph Copeland Cooper, Com
manding Officer, XXI Corps, U. S. 
Army (Reserve), Indiantown Gap.
The convention extends until 
Saturday afternoon. The delegates 
will attend business and commit
tee meetings and workshops. Each 
day will be highlighted by a 
luncheon with guest speakers rep
resenting the various service 
branches, including Army Col. 
Raymond P. Tarr, Jr., Deputy 
Chief, U.S. Army Reserve and 
ROTC Affairs; Commander J. D. 
Copeland, U.S.N., Head of Offi
cers Candidate Training Section, 
Bureau of Naval Personnel, DeFinal Drill of 
Season Will Be 
Held Tomorrow
The Carnegie Tech ROTC Regi
ment vill forsake the muddy fields 
and trenches tomorrow when the 
final drill period for the season is 
held. The ROTC students, plagued 
this year by mud, rain, hints of 
snow, dogs, men, machinery, and 
even falling rocks, will retire to 
the warmth of their classrooms 
where their harassment will be 
limited to the basking of the radi
ators and an occasional quiz from 
their instructors.
In a more serious vein, the reg
iment has progressed very well 
during the past weeks. The Ad
vanced Corps cadets have kept 
things operating smoothly, and 
training for the Basic Corps, in
ducing the freshmen, has in some 
cases exceeded expectations. Espe
cially complementary to the ef
forts of the cadre and the cadets 
is the high quality music which 
the Regimental Band has been 
furnishing lately.
This years training thus far 
has included both new and review 
material, all pointing towards the 
parades and reviews next Spring, 
which include the annual Federal 
Inspection, and the Presidents and 
Deans Reviews.
partment of Navy; and Col. Wil
liam C. Lindlay, U.S.A.F., Chief 
of Precommissioning Branch, Di
rectorate of Personnel Procure
ment ai-d Training, Department of 
Air Force.
In addition to the daytime activ
ities and the banquet and dance 
Friday, the delegates will be treat
ed to a smoker tomorrow evening 
from seven to 8:30, with the Car
negie Tech Scabbard and Blade 
Company in charge of the affair.
held last week under the direction 
of Pledge Master, Scabbard and 
Blade 1st Lt. Alvin Albright. The 
pledges were instructed in what is 
expected of them and held election 
of officers for the pledge class. 
The officers chosen were: Presi
dent Richard Cuppett and Treas
urer Michael Zerner.
Pledges honored by selection 
last week include Leo Biagini, 
George Bowling, Martin Cannon, 
Dick Cuppett, Joe Freiland, John 
Fry, Michael Georgelis, Joseph 
Ludwig, Nick Macchiarolo, Wil
liam Mapes, Alan Patz, Donald 
Rish, Frederick Schirm, Warren 
Waugh, Ed Werner, and Michael 
Zerner.
&Dont light that fuse, Joe! You dont have to get rid of the 
boss to get yourself a promotion. Not when you work for 
an electric company in Pennsylvania.
There are plenty of opportunities for promotion in these 
companies because theyre expanding so fast. With output 
doubling on the average of every ten years, advanced po
sitions are opening continually for the employee who ha 
talent and vision.
MORAL: If youre shooting for fast promotions, youd 
better talk with the electric company interviewer when be 
visits your campus. Or write to:
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION 
STATE STREET BUILDING, HARRISBURG, PA.
or
electrical 
engineers & 
physicists 
receiving M.S. 
Ph.D. degrees
We invite you to consult with us 
regarding new positions in Hughes Advanced 
Research and Development activities.
Hughes offers you an atmosphere most 
productive of creative work in your specialty. 
Your assignment will be to help forward basic 
theoretical progress in areas such as these:
 Meteor Communications
 Solid State Physics Research
 Satellite Interceptor Systems
 Air Launched Intermediate Range 
Ballistic Missiles
 Communications Satellites
 Space Ferry Systems
 Futuristic Instrumentation Systems
 Global Surveillance Satellite Systems
 Three-Dimensional Radar Systems
 Electronics in Oceanography
 Infrared Detection Systems
 Industrial Controls
 Data Processing Systems
Hughes is an engineering-oriented company, 
and as such has become one of Americas 
leading producers of advanced electronics. 
This leadership is based upon the efforts of 
over 5,000 engineers and scientists. One in 15 
is a Ph.D. One in 4 has a masters degree.
The West's in advanced ELECTRONICS
HUGHES

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 18, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
cjCttera tare spinel ZJhe ^rrt
9
To Men
I think I have it now.
I know I have it . . .
A place, that is,
For me, a female,
A member of that sex sphere 
Of complex doves.
Oh, do not argue with me!
We are complex . . .
To such extents that 
All our life is spent 
In chasing our own tails, 
Bewildered by our endless, 
Unexpected chirpings,
And dropping colored feathers 
In our trail.
To A Man
Excuse me, sir!
I am a woman,
But will be brief.
While I sit behind you 
Let me . . .
Stop! you say,
You are dizzy!
You are sick 
of female chatter, 
roving eyes, 
incessent giggles, 
come-on wiggles, 
Which compel you 
To a shout 
Of I love you.
To Men
You see! he thinks 
I brush the lint 
From his rough jacket 
Just to hear I love you '
Three times over.
To A Man
Ah hah! but wait . . .
You are so wrong 
about me, anyways.
Just let me have your eyes,
Dont blink your eyes,
And you will meet with mine 
A reverence all sublime.
Just hold your gaze . . .
And see reflected,
The portrait of a man.
I am worldly wise now,
Cant you see!
And be assured that 
I, at least, shall 
Never leave my place,
Nor will I step from 
Behind your manly frame,
Except to say,
I love you.
And please do not reply,
Just look me in the eye 
and pull a quill 
From my sad tail . . .
If you care to pick your teeth!
Beverlee Hallow
What Is A City
Editors Comments
The column this week includes two poems by two young 
ladies in Margaret Morrison, Miss Zendy Long, a home eco
nomics major, and Miss Beverlee Hallow from the general 
studies department. It is, I think, interesting to note the con
trast between the two poems and,4-------------------------------------------------
rime
iroir
perhaps, to venture one or two 
less trite generalisations from the 
comparison.
The piece by Miss Long seems 
lost like a view of Pittsburgh 
rom Mount Washington, or any 
city seen from a hill-top far 
away from the noise and smells. 
Her reaction is recognisable, for 
many of us who have gone to take 
such a look have felt the murmurings of her poetry in us. It 
is a mellow feeling, an inner peace 
and a realization of beauty which 
needs the hill-top-detachment to 
bring it forth. But the view, is, 
therefore, itself necessarily de
tached, and being peaceful, lacks 
perhaps, the vividness and excite
ment of a unique exeperience. One 
would think that Miss Long, like 
Wordsworth, can return and re
cover her emotion in tranquility 
at will, and I can only wonder 
whether we, too, share in the 
depth of her realization.
Now Hear This, on the other 
hand, is more of an exclamation, 
i^yen a declaration of an individ
ual stand. There is no generality 
in itr conception and it holds us 
with its vitally personal outlook: 
the rights of womanhood are re
jected and a request for the priv
ileges is made. There is a nov
elty in this which I found very 
attractive and somewhat out of 
tune with the plethora of wom
ens forums to which we are daily 
treated.
ij And the generalizations? Pernaps it is possible to see here two 
basic kinds of poetry. One in 
which we read and then sit back 
and remember how we too once 
had that same feeling. This I 
should like to call identification, 
for lack of a better word, and this 
kind of poetry that of universal 
emotion. Then there is the other 
with which we sit forward and try
to gain a better look at the per
sonal world of soms other. Here 
there is no intention of generality 
nor do we seek it for this is the 
world of individual emotion. Both 
make up for us part of the es
sence of the poetic experience. On 
the one hand we realize how close 
we are, in effect, to each other 
and how, basically, there exists a 
common language that we all un
derstand: on the other we gain 
a respect -or the differences and 
a knowledge that, in spite of the 
similarities, each persons world 
is a world apart.
Before I close, I should like to 
make an appeal for more material 
for this page. There is place here 
for creative writing of all sorts, 
not only poetry which, it would 
seem from what we have had to 
date, limits the extent, or at least 
the form of such effort as is cur
rently being made in this direc
tion. The column is intended to 
provide both a mirror for what 
we are and a platform from which 
we can be heard, and can become 
a worthwhile part of our lives. 
Manuscripts should be sent to Box 
401, CIT.
Michael Adler.
Uk5ver15oy Travel 
Serv5ce
Domestic or Foreign Points
Arrangements made for 
Individuals or Groups to
Charters for Special 
Events also Available
MA. 1-3500 x 7205-6 
MA. 1-5915
In Bldg. E, Schenley Apts.
WRITE
What is a city?
A city protected by a soft white blanket that nature has
bestowed upon us,
One where a hundred footsteps are treading icy walks
And chain-clothed tires revolve on the slippery hands of time,
A river winding between the hills to a cold, uncertain 
horizon.
Is it the end or just the beginning?
What is a city?
One at night whose rooftops point toward the sky in hopes 
of finding life eternal.
They slant at undetermined angleswaiting, watching for 
a wishful sign;
A city bathed in crystal lights whose every spark contains 
a glimpse of hope and happiness that life is worth the 
reality of the stars that mirror its reflection.
Is it the end or just the beginning?
What is a city?
A city built for men with starving, wondering faces.
Will it take their hands and show them which way to turn?
Do they realize its meaning when the river stops flowing and 
the stars refuse to shine?
A city built upon a memory that exists as all materialistic 
% idols disappear,
Its reality that gives a lasting will to carry on to things 
unknown,
A city that understands when its reality is shadowed by 
uncertainty and scepticism.
Is it the end or just the beginning?
What is a city?
One cannot build it in a lifetime, but he can set its 
foundation firmly.
Understanding can be its brick, its sustenance.
Around it are the winding river, the pleading faces, the 
unsure footsteps, the searching rooftops.
All seek the answer.
Is it the end or just the beginning?
Zendy Long
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood StreetOakland
m

---------------------------------------------------

Pre 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 1, 1SI
Girls playing in this tourna
ment have the opportunity to 
make a first or second Mid-East
Volleyball
Season
Begins
Carnegie Tartan
Dobras
Wins
Medal
Hodel Wins Honor
On Saturday, November 7, Mary Lou Hodel, junior phy
sics major, made the first team of the Pittsburgh Field 
Hockey Association as right wing.
The experience she gained from playing right wing on 
the WAA Hockey team here atO 
Tech enabled her to compete for
this position. She will now repre
sent Pittsburgh in the Mid-East 
Field Hockey Tournament to be 
held November 14 and 15 at Wil
son t ~   
Girls
team to play in the National 
Tournament which will be held 
over the Thanksgiving
Washington, D. C. ------
president Nixon as patron. Dur
ing the National Tournament, two 
teams are chosenthe All Amer
ican team and the Reserves. These 
teams will challenge other counSAE Takes First Two 
Places In Co-rec YB
By Sherm Chottiner
No, you arent reading double. Nor did the SAEs have i 
sorority party in the gym last Tuesday. However, there were 
those purple shirts on both side of the net during the co-rec 
volleyball finals.
As for league champs, TDP 
Chicks and BSP Coeds, it 
turned out to be quite a frustrat
ing eve. They did manage to mo
bilize their battered forces to play 
a consolation game.
The status of SAE as a volley
ball power has been long known. 
But the past weeks exhibitions 
have shown that their friends on 
the distaff side are likewise able 
at the sport. This observer often 
found it difficult to believe the ex
cellent sets that the Delta Delta 
Delta and Tri Kappa (T.K.) girls 
were providing. Time and again, 
the fairer part of each team made 
unbelievable sets which were 
turned into rousing spikes by the 
SAEs.
100 Spectators
Over 100 spectators turned out 
for the semifinals. TDP Chicks 
never did recover from an early 
6-0 deficit as SAE-T.K. won the 
first set 15-9. The second set
showed the SAE-TK team coming 
from behind and winning by the 
same score.
Two courts away SAE-DDD was 
busily overpowering BSP-Coeds 
15-9; 15-4.
For the record, TDP-Chicks 
defeated BSP-Coeds to win 
third place. The girls who played 
for the top four teams this year 
were: BSP-Coeds, Barbara Eurlick, Sandy Horn, Evie Wagner, 
Nancy Greenstein, Joyce Rayvid, 
Chere Gomberg; TDP-Coeds, 
Amy Ulrich, Carole Dennison, Bar
bara Drake, Liz Zakucia, Cynthia 
Wolf son, Nancy Hamburger, Ellen 
Garb; SAE-DDD, Fran Teviotdale, 
Trixy McCabe, Evie Hoffman, 
Becky Krauss, Carolyn Keister, 
Maggie Brown, Joyce Clawson; 
SAE-TK, Nancy Joseph, Peggy 
Stauffer, Marty Bartlett, Joan 
Light, Minerva Hawkins, Mary 
Hasson, Mary Jo Basinsky.
MG Faces SAE Tonite For IM Championship
The defending champs, the Met Grads meet SAE tonight 
to determine who will be the IM football champs for this 
year. To retain the throne, the Grads will hope that John 
Cigans passing, Ben Patzs receiving, and Ed Karchers 
blocking are superior to the SAEs attack led by the running 
and passing of Chuck Vodvarka, the pass receiving of John 
Mowrey, the hard charges of Ray Nix, and the pass defend
ing of Dick Aust.
A very much improved Beta4-----------------------------------------------------
Theta Pi rolled over Sigmu Nu 
33-22 to capture third place in the 
play-offs. Dave Connell picked up 
four touchdowns to lead the Beta 
attack. The game was close for 
almost three quarters before the 
Betas broke away from SN.
SAE lucked through their sec
ond victory of the week in beat
ing BTP, 18-16. TN Betas led 16- 
8 going into the last five minutes 
of the game. However, a * neat, 
shifty run by Bob Miller after 
catching a pass got SAE a 35-yd. 
touchdown which was quickly fol
lowed by a safety, thanks to Ray 
Nixs hard rushing. SAE after
wards pulled ahead and stalled 
out the clock for the victory.
The Met Grads gained their 
berth in the finals by virtue of a 
19-14 victory over Sigma Nu. The 
Grads held a 12-0 lead at halftime, but Carl Michael and Bill
Stevenson closed the gap in the 
second half and made the game 
worth watching.
Quarter-Finals
In a closely played game last 
week Sigma Nu edged out DTD, 
18-8. Carl Mandry and Jim Flow
ers led the Sigma Nus through
out the game, while Mike Tomasek showed signs of greatness for 
the Delts when the Delts were 
moving the ball.
The other quarter-finals game 
of the week, SAE barely nosed out 
KS, 30-26. It was the first of two 
times that week that SAE battled 
the clock to win. Chuck Vodvar
ka threw three TD passes, two to 
John Mowrey, and scored twice 
himself to account for SAEs scor
ing. Bill Raleigh and John Scango 
connected on several short passes 
to account for most cf the Kappa 
Sigs scoring.
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING
4609 FORBES AYE. (near Craig St.)
MUseum 1-1288
 WELCOME 
j STUDENTS
Beste
Muth on defence for Tech at right gets set to tackle Angelo Robertucci, No. 10, of Westminster. 
Arendas of Tech can also be seen amid the mud racing up behind the ballcarrier.
Change: We Get 
Squeeked Out 14-12
Carnegie Tech wound up a very 
successful season by being dealt 
a defeat in much the same manner 
they had been dealing their own 
victories. A couple of breaks at 
key moments and two extra points 
made the difference as Westmin
ster downed the Tartans 14-12.
As had become their habit, the 
Plaid moved for a touchdown the 
first time they had the baH. Quar
terback Jim Muth, playing one of 
the best games of his career, mix
ed end sweeps and short passes 
to move eighty yards, climaxing 
with a sneak.
Pete Schlegel, who has consist
ently added the extra point, was 
injured last week and was not 
even in uniform. But even Pete 
would have had trouble as a high 
pass from center gave the op
ponents time to rush in and block 
the conversion.
Westminster put a drive togethei that netted them a touch
down early in the second period. 
Quarterback Jack Bestwick seem
ed hampered by the rain and mud 
and relied heavily on a running 
attack. Once the Titans scored 
they had little trouble with the 
conversion, and took a 7-6 lead.
Tech Score
Carnegie came roaring back 
with a forty-five yard pass play 
from Muth to Arendas and scored 
on a wide reverse by Pete Wilson.
Neither team was able to get a 
drive under way in the third 
quarter. But late in the period, 
with Muth back to punt, an er
rant hike brought about West
minster possession on the Tech 
one. They scored in two plays and 
added the extra point, going back 
in front 14-12.
There were several occasions 
during the final quarter when it 
looked like Tech might pull out a 
come-from-behind victory, but 
two pass interceptions gave the 
Titans the ball often enough to 
run out the clock and retain un
disputed first place in the West 
Penn conference.
Tartan Fish 
Open Season
By Joe Oldfield
This years varsity swimming 
team will be co-captained by Pat 
Crecine and Jim Long. Returning 
from last years squad are: freestylers; William DeKleine, Ira 
Rubin, Fred Schirm, Randy Garrish, Andy Merson, Tom Vandersalm, and Crecine, backstrokers; Steve Ernst and Long, breaststrokes; Tom Brunson and Steve 
Strasen; butterfliers; Dick Line 
and Ken Kantrowitz; and divers; 
Joe Aldfield and Mat Kabler.
Practice
Coach Sonelds defending PennOhio champions optimistically 
started the long pull toward an
other successful swimming season 
as practice began on November 
second. The workouts have been 
intensified as the team prepares 
for their opening meet with Grove 
City on December eighth.
Experienced
The team will be centered 
around a nucleus of several out
standing performers from last 
year. Among these are Crecine, 
Vandersalm, Schirm, Line, Long, 
and Ernst.
In preparation for the Grove 
City meet the Tech swimmers will 
come up against Pitt in the an
nual Pitt relays in Techs pool on 
Decmber fourth. This meet takes 
the form of a scrimmage and has 
no bearing on either teams stand
ings.
Home Basketball 
Game Schedule
Opponents Dates
Indiana S. T. C....................................12- 1-59
St. Vincent .........................................12- 7-59Allegheny ...............................................12-18-59
Penn State .......................................... 1- 5-60
Grove City............................................ 1-11-60
Duquesne ............................................2- 6-60
Westminster ..........................................2-10-60
Geneva .....................................................2-13-60
Slippery Rock...................................... 2-16-60
Pitt .............................................................2-23-60
Waynesburg.......................................... 2-24-60
Washington & Jefferson ...................2-27-60
Harriers End 
Dull Season 
Coach Dick Swaneys harriers 
ended a rather disappointing sea
son Friday with a third place fin
ish in the West Penn Conference 
meet. Geneva won the seven-team 
meet with 52 points, Westminster 
was second with 56, while Techs 
score was 64.
Bruce Dobras ran his best race 
of the season to take the silver 
medal for second place. Paul S;|)) 
ders won with a time identical to 
that when he beat Dick Hamilton 
of Tech last year, 23 minutes and 
45 secc/ads.
Tech Runners
JEach of the first four Tech run
ners bettered their previous best 
times for the Schenley Park 
course. Glenn Klepac was eighth 
in 25:14, Pat Chamay thirteenth 
in 26:01, and George Caldwell 
fifteenth in 26:14. ^ j
If Techs fifth man, Bill Ander
son, had been able to equal his 
best time for the year, the squad 
would have tied Geneva for the 
championship. Anderson came in 
a poor twenty-sixth.
Anderson, with three letters, 
and Pat Chamay, with two, are 
the only seniors leaving this years 
team. Bruce Dobras, Glenn Kle
pac, and George Caldwell will 
form the nucleus for next yeqrS 
squad which should have a fine 
record if a supporting cast can 
be found.
Returning
Dobras was Techs first man in 
every meet, and his worst finish 
was fourth against West Virginia. 
Bruce won four races and came in 
second six ^times.
Klepac was the second man in 
every meet but one and topped a 
fine season with his performaif t 
in the West Penn meet.
Caldwell had a late start and 
was bothered by injuries, but 
managed to run well in some of 
the dual meets and had a very 
good time in the conference meet.
Results of the WPIAC meet: 
Geneva 52, Westminster 56, CIT 
64, Duquesne 85, Grove City 108, 
Waynesburg 142, St. Francis 179.
