SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Football offense dominates whiteout  A10Vice provost combines art, technology in work  A4
SCITECH
New exhibit provides societal health report  B8
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 17, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 4
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
The Pittsburgh Parking Authority has announced that 
parking on Margaret Morrison 
Street will now be metered, 
requiring money from those 
wishing to park.
Previously, cars could be 
parked on the street without 
cost or time limit. Now there 
is a central meter machine for 
the street  it costs $2 per 
hour with a 10-hour time limit. The parking hours are between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Parking 
remains free on Sundays, and 
on all other days after 6 p.m. 
and before 8 a.m.
According to the Carnegie 
Mellon parking website, meters are monitored by Carnegie Mellon Police Monday 
through Friday, and by city 
police on Saturdays. 
Michelle Porter, director of 
Parking & Transportation Services, said, We really never 
had control over the actual 
street.
Porter explained that Margaret Morrison was always 
a city street, and that the 
university had an agreement 
many years ago, before she 
was part of Parking & Transportation services.
The decision was made by 
the city council and the parking authority to meter the 
street, Porter said.
David Onorato, executive 
director for the Pittsburgh 
Parking Authority, said that 
metered parking was put in 
place after the parking authority did a ?eld study, in 
which we went to every street 
because we were going away 
from single space meters to 
the new technology.
Onorato emphasized that 
it is within the citys right to 
meter parking. We communicated with Carnegie Mellon 
Parking, Onorato said. The 
street was always under city 
authority.
Porter said that there have 
not been many negative effects due to the change.
We havent heard of too 
many problems, Porter said. 
However, she said that the 
change did have a large effect on Carnegie Mellon parking.
Porter explained that before Margret Morrison became metered, students used 
to leave their cars there for 
days on end. 
Now, students are searching for alternative locations on 
campus to park their vehicles. 
This puts a damper on our 
parking systems, Porter said.
According to Onorato, with 
metered prices in effect, the 
demand for parking spaces on 
Margaret Morrison street will 
decrease. This will open up 
the road for more accessible 
parking. 
We are doing this to create available parking for as 
many people as possible, Onorato said. He added, Price is 
controlled to dictate parking 
spaces.
Multiple professors from 
the Tepper School of Business, whose building is adjacent to Margaret Morrison 
street, were approached for 
comment regarding the recent 
parking changes  but none 
stated that they parked there 
regularly, and thus were unaffected by this new metering.
Alex Gerber, a sophomore 
economics and math major, 
said, I think its a minor inconvenience. The number of 
cars parking on Margaret Morrison will diminish.
Gerber added, You might 
as well park your car in Schenley Park and walk.
Margaret Morrison meter restricts campus parking options
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor 
SARAH HODGSON 
Junior Staffwriter
Investigative journalist, author, and co-founder and host 
of radio show Democracy Now! 
Amy Goodman made an appearance at McConomy Auditorium last Thursday.
Goodmans lecture, which 
was part of a tour to promote 
her book The Silenced Majority: Stories of Uprisings, Occupations, Resistance, and Hope, 
touched on controversial topics like abortion, war, and the 
upcoming election, but primarily focused on the importance of modern-day independent media.
Hearing people speak for 
themselves: Theres nothing 
more powerful, Goodman 
said. She stressed the importance of a grass-roots media 
that works to overcome oppressive corporate media.
Democracy Now! airs on 
WRCT, Carnegie Mellons 
student-run radio station. 
Computer science professor 
Daniel Sleator, who is part of 
the Pittsburgh Campaign for 
Democracy Now (PCDN)  
which brought Goodmans 
show to WRCT in 2003  attended the lecture and gave a 
short opening talk.
One of the things she emphasized is the need for independent media.... The need 
for independent, noncorporate media [that isnt] diluting, distorting, and controlling 
what people see, what people 
know, what people believe. 
That was kind of the main 
theme, Sleator said.
Goodman cited the mainstream media representation 
of the initial Iraq invasion as 
an example of the need for 
independent media. According to Goodman, because the 
Democratic and Republican 
establishment agreed at that 
time, the media did not report 
the strong anti-war sentiment 
present in the country.
You had this extreme 
press instead beating the 
drums for war, she said. The 
four major nightly newscasts, 
out of 393 interviews they did 
Democracy Now! host champions independent media
JENNIFER COLOMA
Operations Manager
For the upcoming election, a new Pennsylvania law 
passed in early August requires that all voters, including students, must present 
some form of governmentissued photo identi?cation at 
the polls.
The Voter ID Law speci?es 
that the identi?cation used 
must have a picture and an 
expiration date. As Carnegie 
Mellon student IDs have both 
already, students are allowed 
to use their student ID in place 
of a state-issued ID. This holds 
true for 15 other universities 
in Pennsylvania, including 
the University of Pittsburgh. 
All other universities do not 
issue IDs that expire. In these 
cases, the university can issue 
stickers to put on student IDs 
to give them expiration dates.
Were working with universities that issue stickers 
 because if you have an ID 
card that expires, it counts, 
and the stickers expire, so 
they make the student ID card 
count, Daniel Walker-Murray, 
a campus organizer for the 
Pennsylvania Public Interest 
Research Group (PennPIRG), 
said. Were trying to get them 
to issue these stickers before 
the election.
According to the website 
of U.S. PIRG  the federation 
of state PIRGs  PennPIRG 
is one of 47 lobbying groups 
for college student interests. 
One of PennPIRGs goals is 
to get students to register to 
vote. Its goal for Carnegie Mellon is 1,000 students. Since 
the Voter ID Law was passed, 
PennPIRG members have also 
tried to inform as many students as possible about the 
new law.
Walker-Murray said that 
the law hinders a citizens 
ability to vote. Weve actually done research and found 
that it targets three groups: 
students, the elderly, and the 
impoverished.
Walker-Murray explained 
that students dont typically 
have drivers licenses, so the 
law affects them in that sense. 
Those living and working in 
the city are also greatly affected by this law because they 
generally use public transportation and dont have drivers 
licenses, according to University of Pittsburgh law professor Jessie Allen.
Carnegie Mellon students 
opinions of the law are split. 
Some, such as junior economics major Avery Calkins, are 
uncertain about the implementation. Personally, I 
think that it shouldnt go into 
effect this year because its really hard to get a governmentissued ID, she said. They 
should give that time.
Calkins also questioned the 
ef?cacy of the law. 
I think that [our ability to 
use student IDs] has its good 
and bad points, because its 
important for students to be 
able to vote, she said. But 
if the government is really so 
gung-ho about the Voter ID 
Law and trying to crack down, 
then why are they allowing 
IDs that wouldnt be accepted 
at the airport?
Other students, such as 
?rst-year mechanical engineering major Nick Gray, support it completely.
I think its necessary, 
he said. I think people need 
to prove who they are, and 
if people are unable to vote 
because of ?nancial reasons, 
they should just ask the government for help.
It seems like an extra 
hassle, Rachel Fowler, ?rstyear business major, said. But 
it also makes sense, because 
without a photo ID, someone 
could commit fraudulent voting.
However, Allen said there 
is no evidence that the type of 
fraudulent voting this law will 
prevent even exists.
Theres no evidence, and 
the state of Pennsylvania admits they have no evidence, 
that that kind of voter fraud 
is possible. They even signed 
a stipulation in the court that, 
even if this law is not put into 
effect, this fraud may not even 
happen. Its all a hypothetical 
situation, she said.
I really think that voter ID 
laws are a solution in search of 
a problem, she said. I think 
certainly they will keep some 
people from voting.
Nine percent of the 
Pennsylvania electoral voters dont have the right ID. 
Thats 750,000, she continued. Apart from the people 
that will actually be prevented 
from voting, the implications 
of a law like this that has recently been passed will cause 
a whole bunch of other problems, because people dont 
know about it.
According to Allen, there is 
currently a lawsuit to overturn 
the Voter ID Law.
This is a case in the Pennsylvanian State Court brought 
by the ESLU Advancement 
Project, which is the national justi?cation project, and 
some law ?rms representing 
a bunch of Pennsylvanian 
people, Allen said. Theyre 
[the people] unable to get 
the required ID and they, and 
many others like them, will be 
See VOTING, A3
Pennsylvanias new voter ID law could stump students
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Parking on Margaret Morrison Street, which was previously free, now costs $2 per hour between 8 a.m. and 6 
p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, with a 10-hour limit. Parking remains free and unlimited on Sundays.
See DEMOCRACY, A3Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Amy Goodman spoke in McConomy Auditorium on Thursday.
Chloe Chia/Junior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 17, 2012
Constitution Day 
Celebration
Tuesday at 3 p.m. 
Posner Center
Magisterial District Judge 
Hugh McGough will speak 
at Carnegie Mellons Constitution Day Celebration. McGough is the district judge 
for Pittsburghs East End, 
overseeing Park Place, Point 
Breeze, Regent Square, Shadyside, Squirrel Hill, and 
Swisshelm Park. He won the 
seat last year, taking over for 
the now-retired Nathan Firestone. An original copy of the 
Bill of Rights will be on display at the event.
School of Art Lecture: 
Nicholas van Woert
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theater
Nicholas van Woert will 
speak as part of the School 
of Art lecture series. Van Woert is a 2012 visiting artist at 
Carnegie Mellon. Artistically, 
he is interested in destruction and how it can be used 
to achieve goals and create 
something new. Van Woerts 
art refers to events such as 
the 19th-century attacks on 
English stocking looms and 
the industrial sabotage committed by radical environmentalist groups. He is in?uenced by works like David 
Foremans Ecodefense: A Field 
Guide to Monkeywrenching, 
a how-to guide for pro-environmental sabotage.
HCII Seminar: Janet 
Vertesi
Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Newell-Simon 1305
Janet Vertesi, a sociology 
post-doctoral fellow at Princeton University, will deliver a 
lecture titled The Social Life 
of Spacecraft: organization 
and collaboration on robotic 
spacecraft teams. 
Vertesi will discuss the decision-making behind robotic 
spacecraft: how resources are 
allocated, what the spacecrafts do, and the manner in 
which they do it.
These decisions are made 
by an international network 
of scientists and engineers 
working on different projects. Vertesi will focus on the 
example of the Mars Exploration Rover and the CassiniHuygens Saturn mission, to 
show the scienti?c and technological implications of organizational practices.
Clayton Eshleman
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. 
Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100)
Poet, translator, and editor Clayton Eshleman will 
present a talk focused on his 
book, Juniper Fuse: Upper 
Paleolithic Imagination and 
the Construction of the Underworld. 
The book is a collection of 
poetry and prose that Eshleman wrote after 25 years of 
research into the origins of 
image creation. He focuses  
his research and writing speci?cally on Ice Age cave paintings in Southern France.
In addition to Juniper 
Fuse, Eshleman has written 
two other books of prose, as 
well as numerous poems and 
critical essays. He is also a renowned translator of poetry. 
Eshleman is an emeritus professor at Eastern Michigan 
University.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
School of Music Alumni 
Maria Sensi-Sellner and 
Christopher Fecteau were recently awarded the American 
Prize in Opera Conducting.
The American Prize recognizes excellence in conducting across several divisions. 
Sensi-Sellner was awarded 
the top prize in the university 
division for her work with the 
Carnegie Mellon School of 
Music in last years production of Puccinis Suor Angelica. She earned a bachelors 
degree in music in 2002, 
a masters degree in music 
composition in 2007, and another masters in conducting 
in 2009.
Sensi-Sellner made her 
conducting debut with the 
Akron Symphony last March 
and currently serves as the 
director of the Akron Symphony Chorus and as assistant conductor of the Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh.
Fecteau earned his bachelors degree at Carnegie Mellon in 1990 and now works as 
a vocal coach, pianist, conductor, and arranger in New 
York City. He was awarded 
the community division of 
the American Prize for his 
work as the artistic director 
of the dellArte Opera Ensemble, a company he founded in 
2000.
As a vocal coach, Fecteau 
has prepared singers for The 
Metropolitan Opera, New 
York City Opera, Boston Lyric 
Opera, and Florida Grand 
Opera. 
 Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Computer science graduate students Sanjiban Choudhury, Ruta Desai, Min Kyung 
Lee, Martina Rau, and Zeyu 
Zheng have all been named 
as some of this years Siebel 
Scholars.
Siebel Scholars are recognized as the best students 
from graduate schools in 
the ?elds of business, bioengineering, and computer 
science. The selection criteria are based on academic 
performance and leadership 
ability. Each scholar is awarded $35,000 for his or her ?nal 
year of schooling.
Choudhury and Desai 
are enrolled in the Robotics Institutes masters program. Choudhury currently 
researches topics related to 
autonomous helicopters and 
plans to obtain a Ph.D. in robotics. Desais research focuses on legged robotics, speci?-
cally controls of automated 
balance recovery after trips 
or pushes.
Lee and Rau are both pursuing Ph.D.s at the HumanComputer Interaction Institute, with Lee focusing on 
intelligent interface systems, 
and Rau researching tutoring 
systems. Rau won the award 
for the best student paper at 
the 2009 International Conference on Arti?cial Intelligence in Education.
Zheng is in the masters 
program in the Language 
Technologies Institute and is 
researching domain adaptation, building on his previous 
work as an intern at Microsoft Research Asia.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Five SCS graduate students named as Siebel Scholars 
FEATURE PHOTO
Students ?ock to TOC for networking
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
66 / 50
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
64 / 46
THURSDAY
High / Low
69 / 51
FRIDAY
High / Low
75 / 57
SATURDAY
High / Low
65 / 53
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 8, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS responded 
to the Donner House basement for an unidenti?ed and 
unconscious female lying on 
the couch. After EMS evaluated the female, it was decided that she should receive 
a transport to the hospital for 
further treatment. The female 
was identi?ed as a student. Alcohol Amnesty applied to this 
incident.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 8, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS were called 
to Mudge House for an intoxicated male passed out in 
a bathroom. Carnegie Mellon 
EMS evaluated the male and 
decided that transport was 
necessary. Alcohol Amnesty 
applied to this incident.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 9, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS responded 
to Fairfax Apartments to treat 
an intoxicated male. The male 
was treated on scene and then 
transported to the hospital to 
receive further medical treatment. Alcohol Amnesty applied to this incident.
Underage Drinking
Sept. 9, 2012
University Police assisted the 
Pittsburgh police in extra patrol details that resulted in 
multiple citations to Carnegie 
Mellon students for underage 
drinking on Beeler Street. In 
addition to citing the students, 
of?cers con?scated multiple 
containers of alcohol during 
their patrol of Beeler Street. 
 
Theft
Sept. 12, 2012
Carnegie Mellon Police 
took a bicycle theft report 
from a Carnegie Mellon student who reported that she 
locked her silver bicycle  
model unknown  at the 
bike rack in the Morewood 
Gardens Courtyard on Tuesday at approximately 12:30 
p.m. On Wednesday, she 
discovered that the bicycle 
had been stolen. The bike 
was valued at $500. The 
case is under investigation. 
 
Vandalism Report
Sept. 10, 2012
University Police were summoned to take a vandalism report in a Wean Hall of?ce. Several items were misplaced and 
scattered throughout the of?ce in a chaotic manner. University Police photographed 
the room and are continuing 
to investigate this incident. 
 
Fire
Sept. 13, 2012
University Police responded to a report of a ?re at the 
Beta Theta Pi Fraternity House 
at 12:43 a.m. A resident of the 
fraternity house discovered a 
grease ?re in the kitchen and 
activated the ?re alarm pull 
station. 
The student was able to 
extinguish the ?re by utilizing 
a ?re extinguisher. Pittsburgh 
Bureau of Fire responded, 
as did Pittsburgh city arson 
investigators. Preliminary information indicates that there 
may have been a problem with 
the grease trap in the kitchen.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Statistically Speaking
Today is Constitution Day, the 225th anniversary of 
the day that the Constitutional Convention signed the 
U.S. Constitution. In celebration of the day, here are 
some Constitutional facts:
26
35
39
The number of delegates who signed the ?nal draft of 
the Constitution.
203
The number of years between when the Twenty-seventh Amendment was proposed in 1789 and when it 
was rati?ed in 1992. The Twenty-seventh Amendment 
requires that changes in the pay of Congress do not 
take effect until after the next Congressional election.
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOURSources: www.archives.gov
Source: www.weather.com
The Amendment that lowers the voting age to 18.
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
The Technical Opportunities Conference was held in the University Center last Tuesday and Wednesday. The event offered internship and 
employment opportunities for students, and had 266 companies in attendance.
The number of words in the Consitutionally-required 
presidential oath of of?ce. The word swear in the 
oath may be switched out for the word af?rm.
Conducting prize awarded to School of Music alumni

---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
unable to vote because of this 
law and this law violates their 
constitutional right.
Earlier this summer, a 
state trial judge refused to 
stop the law, saying the plaintiffs had failed to prove to him 
that this law was unconstitutional and failed to prove 
that a large number of people 
would be kept from voting, 
Allen explained.
The issue stems, Allen said, 
from a disagreement over the 
purpose of the law.
The question of why [this 
law was passed] is debated, 
she said. The state legislators 
who passed the law say ... that 
the reason we need such a law 
is to prevent voter fraud. The 
people who are challenging 
it as unconstitutional say that 
there is no problem of voter 
fraud that would need [a photo ID] and that it is to suppress 
people from voting.
PennPIRG will host a press 
conference on Wednesday 
to educate students about 
this new law and to tell them 
about their ability to use their 
Carnegie Mellon student ID 
card in place of governmentissued identi?cation.
One of the main reasons 
were here is because of the 
Voter ID Law, Walker-Murray 
said. Personally, I believe that 
its our constitutional right [to 
vote], and its a shame that 
theres a sense of student 
apathy. People think students 
dont care.... People in other 
countries are dying for this 
opportunity.
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Junior Staffwriter
We are on a burning 
platform, and we dont have 
a choice but to make tough 
choices if we want our future 
to be better than our past, 
said former U.S. Comptroller 
General David Walker, as he 
addressed a group of about 30 
people who attended his talk 
on campus last Wednesday.
Walker visited Carnegie 
Mellon as part of his $10 
Million a Minute Bus Tour, 
which aims to promote ?scal responsibility and present 
voters with nonpartisan and 
unbiased solutions to the current ?nancial crisis. The event 
was hosted by the Heinz College of Public Policy and Information Systems. According to 
Bryan Tamburro, senior director of strategic initiatives at 
Heinz College, Walkers team 
reached out to policy-oriented 
schools as a component of its 
target audience.
The tour, spanning 49 
states, is sponsored by the 
Comeback America Initiative 
(CAI), which Walker founded 
and currently heads. According to Walker, the tour is focused on swing states because 
the candidates and the media 
will spend a disproportionate 
amount of time in the swing 
states, and they will decide the 
presidential election.
Whichever candidate can 
convince the American people 
that they can do the best job 
of growing the economy, generating jobs, and putting our 
?nances in order should win, 
Walker said. And let me say 
at the outset that neither candidate has done an adequate 
job today of putting out a plan 
that is comprehensive and 
credible to do this.
Walker said that the national debt clock, posted at 
around $16 trillion, understates our problem and instead presented the Burden 
Barometer, which was over 
$70 trillion. 
The Burden Barometer was 
developed by the CAI. It takes 
into account total liabilities 
and unfunded promises that 
will soon become de?cits or 
debts if they are not addressed 
in a timely manner.
The problem is not where 
we are, the problem is not 
where weve been, the problem is where were headed. 
Were headed on a third-world 
nation path of debt as a percentage of the economy. That 
cannot be allowed to happen, 
Walker said.
Walker said the majority of 
our money goes to social security, Medicare and Medicaid, 
and defense. Walker, also the 
former chief accountability of?cer and trustee of Medicare 
and Medicaid, presented a sixpronged plan to ?x the economy. Walkers plan addresses 
the budget, defense, tax reforms, social security, healthcare, and political reforms.
He proposed several solutions in each category, including increasing the income tax 
for the wealthy and keeping 
taxes in place for the lower 
income population; replacing 
party primaries with open primaries, resulting in two candidates with the highest number of votes; and addressing 
unfunded social security and 
Medicare promises.
In order to successfully 
avert a ?nancial crisis, Walker 
said that the plan addressing 
these areas would need to be 
pro-growth, socially equitable, culturally acceptable, 
mathematically accurate, politically feasible, and receiving 
full bipartisan support from 
the opposite party.
Tamburro said that Walkers ideas were interesting, but 
somewhat unrealistic. I think 
he de?nitely did a good job of 
getting the information out 
there within the given amount 
of time. The solutions he presented were good, but actually executing them would be 
slightly dif?cult, Tamburro 
said.
But Tamburro also said he 
hoped the talk made people 
think. I hope that people are 
able to break out of their political mindset, because it isnt a 
matter of one president, or one 
term.... Tamburro said. No 
matter who wins, these problems are going to exist and 
they need to be addressed.
in the week leading up to and 
after Colin Powells address 
... three were with anti-war 
representatives. That does 
not represent mainstream 
America.
Goodman kept her lecture 
interesting with anecdotes 
from her life as an investigative journalist, her time in 
East Timor, and her arrest 
during a 2008 Republican 
convention. She pressed the 
issue of localization of politics and the danger of unheard voices, implying that 
dominating corporate ideals 
re?ected through the media 
are detrimental to the voices 
of the people.
Sleator said that in particular, Goodmans anecdotes 
about seeing the graves of 
Frederick Douglass and Susan B. Anthony, and Mitt 
Romney shaking hands with 
one of the Koch brothers at 
the Republican National Convention resonated with him. 
She told a whole bunch 
of stories like that. Shes a 
very articulate, encyclopedic 
speaker. She knows so many 
stories and so much history, 
Sleator said.
Attendance at the talk was 
not limited to Carnegie Mellon students and faculty.
It looked like a real 
mix, Sleator said. I saw a 
lot of people who de?nitely 
werent students also. I saw 
some people from the Occupy movement. One professor 
brought his whole class.
I was very impressed 
with the turnout, said junior 
vocal performance major Kati 
Richer, who is a staff representative for WRCT, which 
hosted the talk. For me, to 
see all these people who listen to our campus radio station, it really felt great. The 
entirety of McConomy was 
packed. There were people 
sitting on the stairs.
Closing out the well-attended and engaging lecture, 
Goodman said, I think the 
media could be the greatest force for peace on earth, 
but instead its wielded as a 
weapon.
Former U.S. Comptroller General lays out economic plan
VOTING, from A1DEMOCRACY, from A1Talk draws crowdGroups at odds over new voter ID law
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
First-year drama student Colin-James Whitney and junior international relations and politics and ethics, history, 
and public policy double major Daniel Nesbit register to vote.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 17, 2012
SCITECH BRIEFS
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Having spent the last decade designing a virtual system that incorporates music 
with visuals to help stroke 
victims regain limb functionality, Thanassis Rikakis isnt a 
surprising choice for Carnegie 
Mellons new vice provost for 
design, arts, and technology.
Over the past 10 years, Rikakis has served as professor 
and director of the School of 
Arts, Media, and Engineering at Arizona State University. With graduate degrees 
in music composition and 
psychoacoustics, he has led 
numerous projects that bridge 
the arts with technology in attempts to improve the quality 
of life.
Heading into his new position, Rikakis will place a lot of 
focus on the future of what he 
calls cultural systems  the 
interaction between several 
different aspects of a culture, 
such as technology and art, to 
create a unique experience.
Were talking about the 
orchestral experience of the 
future, the drama experience 
of the future, the literature 
experience of the future, Rikakis explained. What we 
want to do at CMU is recognize that this is happening 
and begin to put both our educational structures in place so 
?ve years from now we are at 
the forefront of creating these 
new cultural systems.
He brings a wealth of experience and vision to further 
that mission at our university, Carnegie Mellon Provost 
and Executive Vice President 
Mark Kamlet said in a university press release last Monday 
announcing Rikakis appointment.
One such cultural system 
for which Rikakis led the development was an adaptive, 
mixed-reality rehabilitation 
system, which aims to teach 
the mechanics of simple limb 
motions to stroke survivors. 
It combines physical movements, as performed by a 
stroke survivor, with digital feedback in the form of 
sounds and visuals.
The virtual component  
having a stroke victim move 
his or her limbs and generate 
movements on a screen  
seemed to be only half of the 
recipe for successful rehabilitation, Rikakis said.
The virtual world is missing a lot of the physical interactions that our bodies 
optimize for, he said. Our 
perception is critical.
As an example, consider 
the motion involved in reaching for a cup of water placed 
on a table. This motion, Rikakis explained, consists of the 
arm speeding up, followed by 
holding that speed, followed 
by slowing down just before 
reaching the cup to not knock 
it over. To give the stroke victims an additional perspective 
on this motion, notes on a marimba are played speeding up, 
holding steady, and then slowing down.
The victims are then asked 
to re-create this sound by 
moving their arms. Sensors 
placed all over the arms capture the movement and create sounds in real time based 
on how quickly or slowly the 
arms move.
Clinical trials were conducted on this system, and the 
results were just recently accepted by the journal Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair. 
Rikakis said the study found 
that mixed-reality rehabilitation is an ef?cient tool for improving movement quality in a 
sustainable manner.
One may think of the situation in this way: Traditional 
physical therapy may result in 
the stroke victim successfully 
grabbing the cup of water, but 
adding in mixed-reality rehabilitation may increase the 
chances of victims not spilling 
it in the process. 
The collaboration involved 
in the mixed-reality rehabilitation project is one example 
of the interdisciplinary work 
Rikakis hopes to encourage at 
Carnegie Mellon. The project 
involved researchers from the 
?elds of rehabilitation medicine, rehabilitation science, 
psychology, sociology, visual 
art, music, computer science, 
electrical engineering, and 
bioengineering.
In addition to the new position of vice provost for design, 
arts, and technology, Rikakis will hold professorships in 
the School of Design and the 
School of Music, as well as a 
courtesy appointment in the 
department of biomedical engineering.
Courtesy of Thanassis Rikakis
Thanassis Rikakis, Carnegie Mellons new vice provost for design, arts, and technology, previously designed systems to help stroke victims regain the 
use of their limbs. His work incorporated music and virtual reality with a series of physical motion tasks.
HOW THINGS WORKDeveloping vaccines, from cowpox to modern ?u shots
Incoming vice provost uses music, 
virtual reality to help stroke victims
MICHAEL SETZER
Assistant SciTech Editor
Theres a lot going on in 
the ?eld of public health and 
vaccinology. According to 
NPR, researchers have been 
working on a vaccine to ?ght 
Dengue Fever, and Scienti?c 
American recently reported 
on the progress of a preventive medication for HIV. While 
these might seem more exciting than your annual ?u shot, 
the process of how such vaccines work is complicated and 
fascinating. 
The word for vaccine 
comes from the root word vacca  Latin for cow. According to the BBC, vaccines were 
?rst discovered in the 18th 
century when English physician Edward Jenner observed 
that milkmaids who got cowpox were immune to smallpox.
Taking advantage of the 
lack of patient consent laws, 
Jenner infected a healthy boy 
with cowpox and then purposely inoculated him with 
smallpox to test his hypothesis. Fortunately, the boy remained healthy, and vaccines 
gained some theoretical foundations.
Evolving from gambling 
with patients to annual ?u 
shots, however, required more 
information about the human 
body. According to Discovery Health, vaccines rely on 
the basics of the human immune system. When foreign 
substances such as viruses 
and bacteria, called antigens, 
enter the body, the immune 
system responds by producing 
proteins.
These proteins, known as 
antibodies, destroy the antigens. Antibodies are produced 
by white blood cells, called 
lymphocytes or B-cells. Once 
the body produces B-cells 
against a particular antigen, it 
stores the information for future infections.
Here is where vaccines 
come in. When someone receives a ?u shot or uses a nasal spray, the virus is being 
physically inserted. The two 
categories of viruses are live 
and inactivated. In live vaccines, scientists create a much 
weaker version of the antigen 
before releasing it to the public. These live vaccines can 
make a few patients mildly ill.
Inactivated vaccines are 
usually made by killing bacteria in a chemical and then 
adding pieces of the dead antigen to the vaccine. Allergic 
reactions to vaccines are very 
rare, and because the antigen 
is inactive, theres no risk of 
becoming ill.
A vaccine is made up of 
more than just an antigen, 
however. Many are packaged 
with chemicals to help stabilize them during distribution. 
Additionally, those used for 
multiple doses come equipped 
with a disinfectant to kill any 
foreign material that may be 
inside the needle.
When creating a vaccine, 
scientists spend a lot of time 
studying the antigen and how 
it causes disease in the human 
body. The vaccines are cultured in live chicken eggs for 
a few days to incubate. This is 
why those with egg allergies, 
for example, cannot receive 
the ?u vaccine. 
The testing stage for a 
proposed vaccine is long and 
complicated; it has to undergo 
years of study to make sure its 
effective, and then it must be 
tested on healthy adults and 
target demographics. The trials are closely monitored by 
governmental organizations, 
such as the Food and Drug Administration or the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 
As for the ?u shot, scientists 
are never completely sure the 
vaccine will protect against 
a particular strain. The in?uenza virus mutates hundreds 
of times per year, so choosing 
the right strain to ?ght against 
is dif?cult. Fortunately, scientists are often close enough to 
make an effective vaccine.
As ?u shots are already being advertised outside RiteAid and Giant Eagle, it may 
be time to start thinking about 
getting one. For the upcoming ?u season, the CDC says 
it is especially important for 
people who hold a high risk of 
developing pneumonia from 
the ?u, such as those who are 
over 65, pregnant, or have respiratory conditions.
The CDC notes, however, 
that everyone over the age of 
four months should try to get a 
?u vaccine.
Molly Swartz/Junior Artist
The virtual world is missing a 
lot of the physical interactions 
that our bodies optimize for. Our 
perception is critical.
Thanassis Rikakis,
Vice provost for design, arts, and technology
Computer learns objects in poorly drawn sketches
Researchers from Brown 
University and the University 
of Berlin in Germany have developed a computer program 
capable of identifying rough 
sketches drawn by humans in 
real time.
While computers are already good at recognizing 
sketches that are accurate 
representations of their realworld counterparts, rougher 
and less accurate sketches are 
more dif?cult. For example, a 
non-artists sketch of a rabbit 
may feature big buck teeth, 
big ears, and a cotton tail  
a caricature with little semblance to an actual rabbit. 
While humans may still be 
able to recognize this depiction, computers are unable to 
do so without adequate training data. 
To overcome this limitation, the researchers ?rst 
trained their program with 
over 20,000 human-drawn 
sketches. Then the team developed a method for users 
to create drawings while the 
program attempted to identify them in real time. The program averaged a 56 percent 
accuracy rating, while humans managed a 73 percent 
accuracy rating guessing images from the same data set.
Source: Science Daily
Proof submitted for decades-old math conjecture
Shinichi Mochizuki of Japans Kyoto University has 
released a 500-page proof 
of the abc conjecture, a signi?cant problem in number 
theory whose solution has 
eluded mathematicians for 
decades. Essentially, the conjecture states that, for positive integers a, b, and c that 
share no common factors and 
satisfy a + b = c, then d, the 
product of the prime-number 
factors of abc, is rarely much 
smaller than c. If Mochizukis 
proof of the conjecture were 
veri?ed, it would be the gateway to solving many open 
number theory problems and 
signi?cantly impact other aspects of mathematics.
If Mochizukis proof is 
correct, it will be one of the 
most astounding achievements of mathematics of the 
21st century, said Dorian 
Goldfeld, a mathematician at 
Columbia University.
However, the veri?cation 
process may take some time. 
Mochizukis lengthy proof 
uses a highly unconventional 
approach that even adept 
mathematicians are not familiar with. At this point, he 
is probably the only one that 
knows it all, Goldfeld said.
Source: Nature and Scienti?c 
American
Human stem cells restore hearing for deaf gerbils
Scientists have successfully restored hearing to deaf 
gerbils using human embryonic stem cells. After treating 18 gerbils that were completely deaf in one ear, the 
team reported an average 46 
percent recovery rate in hearing among the creatures.
Gerbils, rather than mice, 
were selected for the experiments because they have a 
hearing range similar to that 
of humans. 
If this was a human patient, it would mean going 
from being so deaf as to be 
unable to hear a lorry or truck 
on the street to being able to 
maintain a conversation, 
said Marcelo Rivolta of Britains University of Shef?eld, 
who led the research. He noted that human clinical trials 
could begin in a few years.
Source: Reuters
 Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
New species of monkey discovered in the Congo
A new species of monkey 
has been discovered in the 
Democratic Republic of the 
Congo (DRC). The monkey 
has a grizzly, blond mane and 
a cream-colored nose stripe 
that help distinguish it from 
its other primate cousins in 
the area. The species ?rst 
came to light when scientists 
found one of the animals being kept as a pet.
Biologists named the new 
monkeys Cercopithecus lomamiensis, after the nearby Lomami river in the monkeys 
habitat. They also suggested 
that other unidenti?ed species may currently be living 
in this area.
This discovery may be 
only the ?rst from this remarkable but poorly known 
forest, located in the central 
DRC, said anthropologist Andrew Burrell from New York 
University, who was involved 
in the study.
Source: BBC

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee 
member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Alan 
Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Braden 
Kelner, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Stephanie 
Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Asst. SciTech Editor
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 17, 2012
The line for this years Technical 
Opportunities Conference (TOC) ran 
out the door, trailed along half of the 
University Center, crossed the Cut, 
and ?nally ended in front of Purnell. 
In other words, it was quite long.
And this was the line for people 
who had registered ahead of time. 
It stands to reason that, if the registered line was this long, the line for 
those who did not register ahead of 
time would be even longer  but the 
unregistered line was much shorter 
and faster.
The most visible bene?t of 
registering was a preprinted name 
tag. Were not sure how much weight 
future employers put on a snazzy 
name tag, but it seems that forgoing 
that luxury would have gotten students into the conference and making connections about 20 minutes 
earlier than their registered peers. 
And with the 266 different companies that attended the TOC this 
year, there were a lot of connections 
to be made. So next year, if the process for registered students isnt improved, we encourage students to 
?out convention and just show up at 
the conference unregistered.
Beside the name tag, registration 
allowed students to submit a digital 
copy of their rsum for recruiter 
review. Additionally, registered students were submitted in drawings 
for giveaway prizes. While the prizes 
seem fun, being able to submit your 
rsum is a valuable asset. However, 
being able to get into the career fair 
and meet face-to-face with recruiters 
can potentially be much more fruitful for your employment opportunities, and students shouldnt have to 
risk that face time for added perks.
With so much going on during the 
week of TOC, and with registration 
currently providing little overall bene?t to students, they should forgo 
the registration process in the future. 
Students are striving to network and 
make an impression in order to land 
that dream job, and registration currently hinders that. 
Unless the registration process is 
revamped by the appropriate organizations in order to better serve the 
needs of these students, most people 
should skip it and focus on the rest of 
the career fair.
Further improvements needed for Pittsburgh cyclists
TOC registration requires more bene?ts for students
Kluwe demonstrates changing attitude in pro sports
Yahoo! Sports acquired and published a letter from Maryland politician Emmett C. Burns Jr. to Baltimore Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti 
on Sept. 6. The letter requested that 
Bisciotti prevent Ravens linebacker 
Brendon Ayanbadejo from further 
publicly supporting same-sex marriage, speci?cally a ballot initiative 
in Maryland to legalize it.
Burns requested Bisciotti to 
take the necessary action, as a National Football Franchise owner, to 
inhibit such expressions from your 
employee....
The audacity of the request has 
not gone unnoticed. It gained publicity thanks to an open letter to Burns 
from Minnesota Vikings punter Chris 
Kluwe, published by Deadspin.com.
The letter, despite being full of 
profanities and obscenities, demonstrates the ?aws and inherent injustice that Burns suggests in restricting a U.S. citizens First Amendment 
rights.
However, Kluwes letter also 
changes the public face of American 
professional sports.
The perception of professional 
sports in the U.S. is one of entertainment, competition, and masculine 
bravado. 
This traditional masculine persona often seems at odds with developing attitudes toward homosexuality 
and gender roles in America. While 
there has yet to be an openly gay 
athlete in the NFL, Kluwes letter is 
inspiring and indicative of how attitudes in the industry are changing.
Kluwes remarks foreshadow a 
time when It Gets Better videos 
and movements will no longer be 
necessary; when people are treated 
equally regardless of sexual orientation.
The fact that Burns letter attacked freedom of speech as well as 
the right to marriage shows how fear 
and intolerance are constantly at 
odds with these basic human rights. 
The U.S. was formed from the ?rst 
principle, and now it is only a matter 
of time until it accepts the second.
Support, especially from those 
regarded as American role models 
like Ayanbadejo and Kluwe, will 
help move marriage equality toward 
greater acceptance.
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Reform necessary for cheating punishment
CHLOE THOMPSON
Junior Staffwriter
A cheating scandal at an esteemed academic institution is 
once again making headlines. One 
hundred and twenty-?ve Harvard 
University students were accused of 
cheating on a test for a class called 
Introduction to Congress last spring, 
according to a recent article in The 
New York Times. The exam was a 
take-home test, and the students 
were told that they could use any internet resources they wanted. However, they were told not to discuss 
the test with each other.
The students caught cheating 
face disciplinary action, such as 
year-long suspensions, and those 
who have already graduated could 
have their diplomas rescinded. Professors and students alike have expressed deep outrage at such fraudulent behavior, especially at a school 
like Harvard.
First off, the idea that cheating is 
somehow worse or more surprising 
because its at Harvard is completely 
absurd. Whether it occurs at Harvard, Carnegie Mellon, or Greendale Community College, cheating should be treated in the same 
manner. Cheating becomes even 
harder to handle when universities 
classify some forms of collaboration as cheating. The line between 
collaboration and cheating is hard 
to distinguish, mostly because collaboration can be helpful and sometimes the best way to learn. But the 
fact remains: The students were told 
not to talk to each other about the 
test. Even if their interactions were 
honest collaborations, they were 
cheating. 
In an ideal world, professors 
could hand out take-home tests and 
know that their students would not 
cheat; this would save class time 
for lectures instead of exams and 
preserve the integrity of the university. Universities should expect all 
of their students to live up to a standard of honesty, but that is unrealistic. Everybody cheats, and if they 
havent, they probably didnt treat a 
class with as much consideration as 
it deserves.
I havent cheated on a test  except that one time in second grade 
when I totally tried to copy answers 
on a math test; sorry I forgot to mention it, Carnegie Mellon. But I have 
cut corners or come up with excuses 
that were artful pieces of ?ction. Its 
normal. That doesnt mean its okay, 
but it does mean that students who 
are caught cheating arent automatically demons, to be cast out of our 
illustrious institutions with a complimentary public shaming.
Universities are in an interesting 
bind, especially when it comes to 
students who have already graduated, because the universities simultaneously lack power and have 
too much. A university can suspend 
a current student who is caught 
cheating or prohibit them from participating in activities, because it has 
immediate power.
Students who have already graduated are out of a universitys reach, 
for the most part  unless the university decides to take that all-important diploma back. This destroys 
a students ability to get a job or go 
to graduate school.
Yes, the cheating students made 
a mistake, but one mistake shouldnt 
mess up the rest of their lives, especially considering that few of the 
students in question were accused of 
plagiarism, but rather of collaborative cheating. Both plagiarism and 
collaborative cheating break the 
rules, but the former demonstrates 
a complete lack of consideration for 
the class, while the latter can demonstrate an actual attempt to learn. 
No one really knows if the students 
involved were trying to collaborate, 
or just copying work from friends. 
But even if they were copying work, 
does that make it okay to wreck 
their chances of having a successful 
life after school?
Harvard is threatening to hang 
these students out to dry because 
publicly disciplining them serves 
the twofold purpose of purifying 
the schools name and discouraging other students from trying a 
similar trick. But punishing students 
who get caught doesnt mean that 
the university is free of cheating, 
because everyone has, more likely 
than not, done something morally questionable over the course of 
their academic careers. The school 
shouldnt just let it go, but lambasting the students doesnt cleanse dishonesty from an institution. Doing 
that would require a much deeper 
revamping of the way we look at 
school and the way we value hard 
work throughout the country.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Pittsburgh cyclist Colin Albright 
was the victim of a bizarre outburst 
of road rage. On Sept. 7, a driver  
whom Albright speculates he may 
have accidentally cut off in traf?c 
 followed him by car, chased him 
on foot, and then sliced and stabbed 
him with a small hunting knife.
While this is a particularly violent 
example of the tensions between 
cyclists and drivers, its far from being the only dangerous interaction 
thats happened in Pittsburgh. This 
summer, two cyclists were killed and 
another was critically injured by motorists, all of whom drove away from 
the crime scenes.
Given that Pittsburgh has plenty 
of college students and a less-thanrobust public transportation system, 
the cyclist population is bound to 
keep growing. But the number of 
accidents will only increase if Pittsburgh doesnt ?nd a way to accommodate those who get around by 
bicycle.
Safety concerns arent the only 
reason why Pittsburgh should become more bicycle-friendly. For 
years, the American Lung Association has identi?ed Pittsburgh as one 
of the most air-polluted cities in the 
country. One of the easiest ways to 
decrease the amount of air emissions would be to incentivize people 
to ride bicycles rather than drive to 
their destinations, and having designated bike lanes would make people 
feel more comfortable about cycling.
There have been some positive 
steps in the right direction: There 
are an increasing number of streets 
in Pittsburgh with designated bike 
lanes, and Pittsburghs Climate Action Plan, which was published in 
February, includes several cycle-centric ideas on how to make Pittsburgh 
a more bike-friendly city, such as creating more sheltered bicycle storage 
areas. 
Carnegie Mellon has also been 
working to improve conditions for 
cyclists  the 2012 Master Plan includes a proposal to create bicycle 
lanes in front of campus on Forbes 
Avenue. 
We hope that the city and Carnegie Mellon make these initiatives 
a priority in order to prevent more 
deadly incidents.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
Lunar Gala model auditions were last week. So we asked,
If you had a modeling face, what would it be called?
September 17, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Modern education undermined by creationismCampus forgets Sept. 11
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Junior Staffwriter
Most Americans can remember 
exactly where they were on the 
morning of Sept. 11, 2001. Eleven 
years later, some people can go 
about their days without even realizing that 9/11 has come again.
Then, there are those that cannot forget; because their loved 
ones never came home after that 
morning; because they ran from 
the clouds of dust as the World 
Trade Centers collapsed into heaps 
of debris; because they sel?essly 
put their lives on the line to volunteer at Ground Zero; because they 
knew someone in the towers, in 
the Pentagon, or on the planes.
These people will never forget.
The 11th anniversary of 9/11 
has come and gone, but the Carnegie Mellon community did not 
stop, even for just a moment, to 
re?ect on this tragedy.
My father was a volunteer at 
Ground Zero. I still live with the 
fear that he will develop cancer 
from the dust he inhaled while on 
site. My mothers cousin worked 
next to the World Trade Center. 
She ?ed, terri?ed and covered in 
rubble, on that morning 11 years 
ago. 
To this day, she cannot bring 
herself to return to New York City. 
My best friends aunt was not as 
lucky. Neither was my neighbor or 
the father of my brothers friend.
My experiences are not unique. 
So many people were affected by 
the tragedy of 9/11; so many people still feel the grief deep in their 
bones. 
Had I known earlier that there 
were no events planned to commemorate 9/11, I would have 
taken it upon myself to organize 
a small candlelight vigil or some 
other appropriate memorial. But I 
thought that the Carnegie Mellon 
community would have some sort 
of memorial, as weve had in prior 
years. 
While not everyone at Carnegie 
Mellon was personally affected by 
these tragedies, we still need to 
take the time to commemorate the 
victims and heroes of 9/11.
As a nation, we vowed to never 
forget. But I am saddened to see 
that Carnegie Mellon has already 
started. Next year, I hope that the 
campus can come together to remember 9/11.
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
The rumors of educational television host Bill Nyes death have spread 
quickly. But no, the Science Guy who 
made many of our childhoods better 
is still alive and kicking. Suspiciously, 
such rumors of his untimely demise 
began several days after a Big Think 
video featuring Nye was released 
online.
In this video, Nye expresses his 
concern that parents are forcing 
their children to learn unsound or 
scienti?cally dubious things such as 
creationism, which, as an educator, 
concerns him greatly.
Nye implores viewers to make 
sure kids develop the critical thinking skills necessary for not just STEM 
(science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics) ?elds, but also for 
a generally better-informed populace. These wishes were met with 
derision from the creationist community, with multiple response videos appearing right around the same 
time as the death rumors.
Ken Ham, the president of Answers in Genesis and the Creation 
Museum, replied with perhaps the 
most aggressive attack, claiming that 
Nye was an engineer who shouldnt 
be commenting on an area outside 
of his expertise. Ham made a distinction between historical and observational science, a distinction that I 
personally have never heard of.
Ham uses this distinction to reconcile the undeniable fact of natural selection with his beliefs in a 
6,000-year-old earth and the implications therein.
Ham ultimately shows his own 
character by attacking Nyes; Ham 
repeatedly refers to Nye not by his 
popular moniker, but as a humanist 
guy. 
Now, as a humanist, I would ?nd 
being called that not an insult, but 
rather a statement of fact. In Hams 
worldview, though, it is de?nitely 
bad. It represents someone who denies everything Ham af?rms and af?rms everything he denies.
The exchange between Ham and 
Nye is ongoing, with the creationist 
side challenging Nye to a formal debate. Most on the side of the skeptics 
seem to agree that such an endeavor 
would be fruitless, but well see if Nye 
accepts the challenge. This incident 
speaks to a broader issue, though: 
namely that creationism seems to be 
in its death throes. When a beloved 
childrens educator and entertainer is 
no longer above attacks, one can tell 
theres not much left for creationists.
Creationism is a self-destructive 
and self-defeating worldview because it tries to force a Bronze Age 
understanding of the world onto our 
modern understanding. 
It attempts to reconcile irreconcilable differences to legitimize itself, 
but after this incident, it is clear to 
me that there is no way I can think 
of creationist theories as legitimate 
in any sense. Ive observed that delusion of this level exists not only in the 
U.S. in fundamentalist Christianity, 
but also in religious fundamentalist 
sects throughout the world.
One can hope that as progress becomes ever-more inescapable and as 
modernity continues to wash away 
prejudices and preconceived notions, 
we as humans will be able to look 
back. 
We will look back and realize that 
adopting the system with built-in 
self-correcting measures is always 
a safer bet than trying to ?t a round 
peg in a square hole. I am con?dent 
that our generation will be the one 
that ?nally embraces science and secularism over tribalism and tradition.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Younger undergrads shouldnt fear BOC/TOC
BRADEN KELNER
Dressed in suit jackets, pleated 
pants or dress skirts, and black shoes, 
students have pained looks on their 
faces; stress and mild anticipation 
etched onto the taut skin over their 
foreheads.
Its that time of year again.
The Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) and the Business Opportunities Conference (BOC)  two 
of Carnegie Mellons networking opportunities for the fall semester  
stormed through campus last week, 
bringing with them a variety of recruiters from across the country.
And, as tradition dictates, ?rstyears and sophomores jumped on the 
chance to complain about the lack of 
opportunities provided to them at 
these conferences. Recruiters dont 
take them seriously; nobody will 
consider their rsums; its pointless 
to go, they say. 
While these complaints are justi?ed  recruiters look for students 
immersed in their majors coursework with previous internships  
and many ?rst-years and sophomores 
will not land an internship through 
the conferences, going to them is not 
a waste of time.
If youre a ?rst-year or sophomore, you may receive some snarky 
comments from an uptight recruiter. 
You might even be dismissed by them 
after revealing your undergraduate 
status. Nevertheless, attending the 
conferences is a good experience.
Not only do they allow you to get 
your foot in the door, but they also 
give you the chance to re?ne your rsum and hand it out. Even if recruiters dont take the document seriously, you gain experience from writing 
a rsum and approaching recruiters 
about your interests in their companies.
You can also take the opportunity 
to see how the conferences work  
dressing up and experiencing the 
lines and booths. By the time youre 
able to seriously pursue an internship 
or job at the TOC and BOC, youll be 
a seasoned veteran at the game. You 
can also experience the phenomenon 
of an uninterested company so you 
arent ?ustered if it happens your junior year. On the other hand, it never 
hurts to experience elation at a companys impressed remarks.
Attendance at the conferences 
also allows you to scope out the job 
market  and the competition. Many 
companies consistently show up to 
the TOC and BOC. This gives you the 
chance to eye those that capture your 
interest. You can then work toward 
making yourself marketable to those 
speci?c businesses in the future.
As a result, youll be able to enter 
the job fairs in later years with a focused mind and experience. Going 
to the career fairs early also provides 
the opportunity to see what type of 
internships or jobs peers are applying for. Try to notice what makes 
them stand out to recruiters and use 
this knowledge to shape your own 
skill sets.
You might even be surprised by a 
call from a recruiter after the fairs. 
Plenty of sophomores make it to the 
?rst round of interviews or further 
for a company they expressed interest in, with many landing internships 
the summer after their sophomore 
year. Once youve been contacted by 
a recruiter, the job or internship is 
fair game.
Even though the TOC and BOC 
have come and gone, more job fairs 
are on the way. The Employment Opportunities Conference takes place 
Oct. 11, with about 150 organizations 
out to snatch up some new recruits. 
Dont downplay the importance of 
the job fairs on campus: There are 
opportunities for every level of experience there, even if they may be hidden behind the intimidating number 
of recruiters seemingly looking for 
people with more experience.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan, and was shot down by 
a variety of companies at the TOC this 
year. And he loved every second of it.
While not 
everyone at 
Carnegie Mellon 
was personally 
affected by 
these tragedies, 
we still need to 
take the time to 
commemorate the 
victims and heroes 
of 9/11.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Nicole Bozzell
Chemistry
First-year
The Tiger.
Zhenjiang Gong
ECE
Masters
Smile.
Lindsay Coda
Drama
First-year
Really?
Chiedozie Okafor
MechE
Masters
Confidence.
Hoon Choi
Psychology
Junior
Blue Steel from Zoolander.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

September 17, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Six games into the season and the Carnegie Mellon 
womens soccer team remains 
undefeated, with a record 
of 402. On Tuesday, the 
Tartans were victorious over 
Washington & Jefferson College with a score of 41. This 
past Saturday, the Tartans 
hosted the Kenyon College 
Ladies, whom they defeated 
30.
In the game against 
Washington & Jefferson, the 
Tartans position and pressure forced their ?rst goal 
off an opposing defender 
and pushed the score to 10. 
Shortly thereafter, junior 
defender Brittany Couture 
scored another goal for the 
Tartans.
It wasnt until the second 
half of the game that the Tartans scored again. This time, 
senior mid?elder Katie Davis 
pushed the ball into the net, 
bringing the Tartans to 30. 
With 12 minutes left in the 
game, sophomore forward 
Courtney Brant scored, bringing the team to a ?nal score of 
41.
In the Tartans shutout 
against the Kenyon Ladies, 
junior goalkeeper Anna Albi 
made ?ve saves to keep the 
Ladies from scoring throughout the game. However, the 
Tartans were unable to score 
during the entire ?rst half.
But just ?ve minutes into 
the second half, junior forward Alex Venegas scored on 
senior mid?elder Stephanie 
Hares pinpointed pass just inside the 18-yard box. 
Sophomore mid?elder 
Lucy Havens then scored her 
second goal of the season on 
a header after Couture sent in 
a cross from the right sideline, 
which brought the Tartans 
lead to 20. 
Bringing it home for the 
Tartans with three minutes 
left in the game, sophomore 
forward Savina Reid scored 
the third and ?nal goal of the 
game, heading in sophomore 
forward Courtney Brants corner kick.
Its been a real team effort, and weve really pulled 
together since last year. I am 
really excited with how well 
we are playing and to get into 
UAAs, said senior forward 
Brianna Magill.
The Tartans will travel on 
Wednesday to Meadville, Pa., 
to face Allegheny College at 
4:30 p.m. Last season, the 
Tartans defeated the Gators 
21 in a tightly contested 
match with the game-winning goal coming in the 94th 
minute by junior defender 
Rachel Contopoulos. The Tartans look to continue this seasons success.
Womens soccer victoriousMens soccer 51 overall
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Sophomore forward Savina Reid (No. 21) scored the third and ?nal goal of the game at the end of the second 
half, heading in a corner by sophomore forward Courtney Brant.
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The no. 7 ranked Carnegie 
Mellon mens soccer team 
played the Allegheny College 
Gators on Saturday, winning 
with a score of 20.
This win moved the teams 
overall record to 51 for the 
season.
The Tartans began applying pressure early, and in the 
ninth minute, the teams aggressiveness paid off.
Carnegie Mellon attacked 
the Gators defense with a 
series of passes until junior 
Scott Gerfen centered the 
ball across the box to senior 
John Crawshaw, who then 
took aim at the net. The onetimer was blocked by the Allegheny keeper, but the ensuing de?ection went right 
back to Crawshaw. He took 
advantage of this second 
opportunity and put the ball 
in the back of the net.
Despite the Tartans aggressive play and continuing 
pressure, the score remained 
10 at the half.
Coming out of halftime, 
the Tartans did not let up and 
continually occupied the Gators half of the ?eld, resulting 
in ?ve corner kicks in the second half.
The ?rst of these corners, 
taken by senior Ben Bryant, 
led to a shot by Crawshaw off 
junior Chris Wysockis header 
that was ultimately blocked 
by the Gators defense.
The Tartans constant aggression ?nally paid off when 
junior Matt Sarett found the 
back of the net in the 83rd 
minute to give Carnegie Mellon some breathing room. 
Sarett served the ball up to 
junior Max Tassano, who 
went up for a header. Tassano 
missed with his head, but the 
pass went through the Gators 
goalkeepers hands.
The Tartans earned their 
third shutout of the season 
with junior Christopher Madden recording the win in goal.  
It was another great win 
for our team. After a tough 
loss last year to Allegheny, 
which ended 32, we felt 
there was a sense of redemption this season. They only 
amounted two shots on goal, 
which shows how great our 
defense played, Bryant said.
Carnegie Mellon plays 
on Tuesday at home against 
Washington & Jefferson College at 7 p.m.
Well beat Washington & 
Jefferson by being aggressive 
and dominant on defense and 
in the mid?eld while staying 
creative and persistent in the 
offensive third, said senior 
forward Alex Abedian.
Greg Hanneman/Staff Photographer
Senior forward Alex Abedian (No. 8) has scored twice this season, leading the Tartans to a 51 start.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 17, 2012
ATHLETE PROFILEHare brings spark to Tartans
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
As a senior mid?elder on 
the womens soccer team, 
Stephanie Hare is proud to be 
a Tartan. Being able to wear 
the Carnegie Mellon name 
on my jersey and around the 
country is extremely rewarding. Only a few people can 
say that they represent such 
a great school as an athlete, 
she said.
Hare came to Carnegie 
Mellon after her ?rst-year, 
transferring from Miami 
University of Ohio, where 
she played Division I soccer. 
Transferring was a lot easier 
than I expected. It was a risky 
decision to switch schools, 
but I could not be happier 
that I made the move. Things 
seemed to fall into place soon 
after I got to school with help 
from [head coach] Yon and 
the team, Hare said.
Changing from Division I 
to Division III is a big change 
for a student athlete. For me 
personally, I like D-III a lot 
better. It ?ts what I am trying to get out of my college 
athletic career. The big difference for me is having a good 
balance between academics 
and athletics here at CMU, 
she said.
Since transferring, shes 
found the team to be an integral part of her life. I have 
made my best friends on the 
soccer team and they have 
become family. I love spending all my time with them and 
also working together on the 
?eld for each other. I also enjoy the challenge of the UAA 
and the road to accomplishing the goals that we have set 
for each other this year, Hare 
said.
The womens soccer team 
has set many goals this year, 
and Hare has a few of her own 
challenges she wants to overcome.
Being a senior, I want to 
have the best season of my 
life. My goal is to help lead 
the team to the post-season. 
I want to walk off the ?eld 
at the end of my last game 
with no regrets and knowing I 
gave everything I could to my 
teammates and the program. I 
believe in this team and what 
we can accomplish this year, 
she said.
Hare believes the womens 
soccer teams camaraderie 
is second to none, and will 
be essential to having a good 
season. Im extremely proud 
of how we have come together 
as a team this year. The chemistry is much better than past 
seasons and is really exciting 
to be a part of, she explained. 
This bond is what will make 
our team do great things this 
year. We are playing for each 
other... and with that attitude 
we can beat anyone.
Part of the teams togetherness comes from the bonding 
during preseason. Every year 
during preseason, we ?nd 
ourselves thinking of things 
that we would rather do than 
run a ?tness test. We get very 
creative with our ideas and it 
makes the long days of preseason a little better, Hare 
said.
Hare is ?nishing her bachelors degree in biological sciences, and plans to graduate 
in May. I am keeping my options open currently. Medical 
school is still an option for me, 
but I am looking to get some 
experience under my belt in 
the workforce before I settle 
down in a graduate program. 
Also, I love to travel so hopefully there will be some cool 
trips in my future, Hare said.
Despite her hopes to travel 
in the future, she has already 
begun to ful?ll that desire. 
This summer I got the opportunity to travel to South Africa 
for a marine biology internship. I learned so much and 
got to experience the beauty 
of South Africa ?rst hand, 
Hare said.
Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
Stephanie Hare has made her mark on the womens soccer team 
already, scoring and assisting once this season.
SARA GUO
Junior Staffwriter
The Tartans hosted the 
St. Vincent College Wildcats 
in their ?rst volleyball home 
match last Tuesday. The score 
was close throughout the ?rst 
game, but the Tartans pulled 
away with a 2826 win. Carnegie Mellon cruised through 
the second and third games 
with scores of 2514 and 
2518, respectively. After its 
victory over the Wildcats, the 
volleyball team improved its 
overall record to 46.
Sophomore right side hitter Ali Celentano had 14 kills, 
while sophomore libero Ali 
Nichols picked up 28 digs. 
Junior setter Emily Wright led 
the team in assists with a total 
of 33.
It was our ?rst home 
game, we were all really excited for it, Wright said. The 
?rst game was a little rough; 
we were a little nervous. But 
in the next game we just got 
down to business and cut 
down on our errors, which 
made the game go by a lot 
faster.
The Tartans also hosted 
the Carnegie Mellon Invitational last Friday and Saturday, pushing the teams overall record to 77.
Carnegie Mellon played 
its ?rst match of the Invitational against the University 
of Scranton, where the Tartans picked up a 30 (2521, 
2518, 2725) overall win. 
Junior outside hitter Senna 
Parsa had nine kills, seven 
digs, and two blocks. The second match was played against 
Johns Hopkins University, 
where Carnegie Mellon lost 
30 (2522, 2518, 2522).
I think weve increased 
our ball control a lot, so I think 
thats a really big strength, 
said head coach Kim Kelly. 
We also have some really 
nice outside and right side 
hitters. I think we have a good 
all-around ?oor right now, 
which is nice.
On the second day of 
the Invitational, the Tartans played their ?rst match 
against the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg. 
Carnegie Mellon gained 
a 30 (2512, 2522, 257) 
victory. According to Kelly, 
Celentano had the game 
of her career against PittGreensburg, where she hit 
.875 with 14 kills. 
Celentano believes much 
of her success comes from the 
support she receives from her 
teammates.
Team chemistry is really 
important, Celentano said. 
Especially with volleyball  
its a huge mental game, so 
you need your teammates to 
help pick you up. Were all really close.
The Tartans ended the Invitational with another 30 
(2512, 2522, 2517) overall win against Elmira College.
This weekend the volleyball team will travel to 
Huntingdon, Pa., to play in 
the Juniata Invitational.
I look forward to seeing 
them grow as a team and become more cohesive, Kelly 
said. From weekend one to 
now, I can see the gelling of 
everything; its actually coming together.
Kelsey Scott/Junior Photographer
The Tartans offense was nearly unstoppable against the Catholic University Cardinals, scoring 35 points and racking up 453 yards of total offense, led by senior running back Jared Delellos two touchdowns.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
In high school fashion, the 
Tartans football team took the 
?eld on Friday night in front 
of a rowdy crowd, uni?ed in 
the theme of whiting out at 
Gesling Stadium. The Tartans 
took on the Catholic University Cardinals.
Senior running back Jared 
Delello set the tone early with 
a 42-yard run, allowing for 
his one-yard touchdown on 
a draw up the middle two 
plays later. That gave 
the Tartans an early 70 lead. 
Delello led the rushing game, 
putting up 74 yards on 12 
rushes for two touchdowns.
After a Cardinals ?eld goal, 
the Tartans managed to score 
another quick touchdown on 
their next possession. Junior 
quarterback Rob Kalkstein 
launched a 65-yard pass to 
sophomore wide out Timothy 
Swanson 
for a touchdown. The pass by 
Kalkstein was his third touchdown pass for 50 or more 
yards in consecutive games.
Kalkstein found the end 
zone again, connecting with 
the teams leading receiver, 
junior Tim Kikta, for a 28-yard 
touchdown completion, the 
third straight game the two 
connected for a touchdown 
pass. The score then sat at 
2110.
The Tartan offense 
was potent, racking up 
453 yards of total offense to best the Cardinals 396 yards. 
Carnegie Mellon head 
coach Richard Lackner got 
clever with the play strategies 
at the end of the second quarter, calling for a double pass. 
Kalkstein hit junior wide receiver Colin Lang for the fake 
screen, as Lang then hit 
senior running back 
Jake Nardone for the 
43-yard completion. 
The fancy play set 
up Kalksteins third 
touchdown, as he connected with senior running back Patrick Blanks on 
the crossing route to bring the 
score to 2810.
Delello scored his second 
touchdown in the second half, 
and the Cardinals converted 
on a late touchdown to bring 
the game to its ?nal score, 
3517. 
Despite the high scoring 
potency of the Tartan offense, 
ball security was an issue. 
The Tartans fumbled 
the ball three times, 
turning it over 
twice. 
However, the Tartans executed their game plan effectively and were able to ?nd the 
end zone many times to put 
the game out of reach early.
Our focus for every game 
is the same each week. We 
know that if we play as a team 
and commit to improving every game, we will be a great 
team, Nardone said. Catholic [University] beat us last 
year so we de?nitely had that 
loss on our mind. It really 
came down to playing for 
each other.
Football offense dominates whiteout, rakes in 35 points
Tartan volleyball wins three of four at CMU Invitational
Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
Junior setter Emily Wright (No. 6) picked up 22 assists and eight digs at 
the Carnegie Mellon Invitational.
Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
The Tartans success at the CMU Invitational brought the team to .500.
My goal is to 
help lead the 
team to the 
post-season.
Stephanie Hare
Senior mid?elder 

---------------------------------------------------

Rory OMalley
School of Drama alum participates in 
campus reading of 8  B6
09.17.12 Volume 107, Issue 4
Imperfect Health
New Miller Gallery exhibit explores 
medicalization of architecture  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
You might want to think twice before putting 
on those skinny jeans. See why in comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents a British sketch comedy 
and two sci-fi horror films this weekend.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about getting creative with 
your DJing technique.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kate Groschner
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about TOC 
interviews and addictions to social media.
3
...diversions
...this week only
PSO
The orchestra launches its new season with a 
celebration of the Year of the Dragon.
3
Fall Fashion
Fall is quickly approaching, and Pillbox offers 
tips for staying chic and warm.
4
Ramin Karimloo
The Broadway star impresses audiences with 
charisma and stunning vocals.
5
Rory OMalley
The Tony-nominated alum returns to Carnegie 
Mellon for a reading of the play 8.
6
NBC Comedy
Many favorite shows among college students 
face cancellation this fall.
7
Imperfect Health
The new Miller Gallery exhibit provides social 
commentary on a range of health concerns.
8
AWOLNATION
The up-and-coming band performs an 
impressive and balanced set.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that the first emoticon was a 
Carnegie Mellon invention?
10
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
karuko puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Life is hard. Why cant thinking be easier? See 
how to make things better in Sloth-o-scopes.
14
Calendar
Consult the calendar for events happening on 
and off campus this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.17.123
Lang Lang performs with PSO
Star pianist joins orchestra to celebrate Year of the Dragon
Last Saturday was an extravagant night for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO). A scarlet 
dragon-clad banner and other Chinese-themed 
decorations adorned the usually bare stage at Heinz 
Hall. Guests in ball gowns and tuxedos arrived in 
large numbers. Even Pennsylvania governor Tom 
Corbett and state senator Dominic Pileggi were in 
attendance.
Seven months after the Chinese New Year, the PSO 
opened its 2012-13 season with a celebration of the 
Year of the Dragon. With an excellent sampling of 
works and a special appearance by Chinese pianist 
Lang Lang, the PSO reminded Pittsburgh of its 
ability to perform impeccably while bringing in highprofile guest soloists.
Despite the dcor, the first half of the program served 
less as a celebration of the Year of the Dragon and 
more as a celebration of the PSO. Giuseppe Verdis 
Overture to La forza del destino was a strong and 
virtually flawless opener, and the famous Wedding 
March from Felix Mendelssohns A Midsummer 
Nights Dream elicited ahs of recognition and 
excitement from the audience. The PSO clearly 
wanted to launch its new season with a bang, and it 
succeeded.
Just when the audience had likely forgotten about 
the theme  as it was too enraptured by the 
orchestras performance  PSO music director 
Manfred Honeck playfully announced that the 
orchestra would summon the dragon to Heinz Hall 
with a fierce performance of Igor Stravinskys The 
Firebird. As Honeck promised, the dragon arrived: 
Dancers carried a long, undulating paper dragon into 
the hall, amid loud gongs and clangs of traditional 
Chinese percussion.
After this entertaining departure from the program, 
Lang took the stage amidst wild cheers of 
excitement. Lang was a performer in every sense of 
the word: He was a delight to both watch and hear.
Although Lang was clearly a skilled musician 
without the extra flair, he still added drama to 
everything he played, almost to the point of dance. 
During violent passages, Lang bent close to the keys 
and trembled with energy; during calmer moments, 
he leaned back and stroked the keys. From his 
extravagant performing style, it was easy to see how 
this young superstar had charmed his way to the 
top. But while his style was charming, it sometimes 
made his performance seem less musically genuine.
After his performance, Lang received a full standing 
ovation and enthusiastic applause. Once the wildest 
cheers had died down, Lang even gave a brief thankyou speech  a rare move for a guest soloist. But 
to the audiences disappointment, Lang declined to 
play an encore.
With the Year of the Dragon theme as its backdrop, 
the PSO made a stunning and lasting impression on 
its first night of the season. Though Lang briefly stole 
the show, the message of the evening was clear: 
This is why you come to the orchestra. We can only 
hope to expect this level of performance from the 
PSO throughout the year.
The PSOs fall schedule continues next week with 
the New World Symphony, featuring renowned 
American-baritone Thomas Hampson. Carnegie 
Mellon Night at the PSO is this Saturday; discounted 
tickets are available for students.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Vergil Yu Photography via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I swung by the TOC last 
week, and I actually got 
a lot of interviews out of 
it! But I suck at talking 
to people. Have any 
interviewing advice?
Thanks,
Generally Regret Entering 
Appointments, Tensely 
Evading Select Technical 
Wringers, Enter Any 
Knowledge Necessary 
for Exact Solutions 
Surrounding Interviews, 
Some Inquiries Need 
Technical Explanations, 
Requiring Vocation, 
Interviews Exterminate 
Work Shot
Dear GREATEST 
WEAKNESS IS 
INTERVIEWS,
Talking to people in general 
is tough, but interviews 
arent so bad. Just keep 
in mind, youre talking 
about your favorite subject: 
yourself! Remember, the 
company likes you already, 
otherwise you wouldnt be 
there. The interview is your 
chance to impress.
Technical questions are 
easy; just make sure you 
know your stuff beforehand. 
When it comes to the 
situational questions all 
the big companies ask, 
dont sweat them. If your 
interviewer is at all technical, 
theyre rolling their eyes at 
all of them. You only need 
to worry if its an HR person 
(HR people are terrible). 
Just try to get on your 
interviewers good side. If 
they like you, youre in.
Just like a first date, 
except you dont have to 
pay,
Patrick Hoskins 
Dear Patrick,
My addiction to the 
internet is getting in 
the way of doing my 
homework. Ive tried 
blocking certain sites on 
my computer, but I always 
manage to give in to the 
addiction by finding new 
internet distractions. 
HOW CAN I MAKE IT 
STOP?
Sincerely, 
Just Understand, Need 
Kitten Images Everyday
Dear JUNKIE,
The internet is a dangerous 
place. Theres a fresh cat 
picture around every corner, 
and you think, Just one 
more, it wont take too long. 
I can stop whenever. Next 
thing you know, its four in 
the morning and those cat 
pictures have just gotten 
weird. Ive been there, friend.
Welcome to internet rehab. 
Blocking those web pages 
is a good start, but its too 
easy to unblock. Try editing 
your hosts.txt file to have 
127.0.0.1 at the end of 
the file. This keeps you from 
connecting to the site. If 
thats too drastic, actually set 
time limits for yourself. Break 
your work down into smaller 
chunks, and after each 
chunk take a small break. 
Lastly, try getting away from 
your computer. You probably 
dont need it for most of 
your work. Just print out any 
online notes you need and 
go study in the library.
Just dont bring your 
smartphone with you,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About nailing interviews and breaking addictions
World-renowned pianist Lang Lang  who is 
known for his dramatic performance style  played 
with the PSO last Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

4fashion
pillbox 09.17.12
Carnegie Mellon students with a penchant for style 
are adapting to the nippy autumn air with some fresh 
fall looks. New York Fashion Week left us inspired with 
Marchesas gilded gowns and Marc Jacobs punchy 
patterns, but infusing runway haute couture into the 
styles of busy students can often prove dif?cult. As the 
weather cools down, you may be tempted to throw on 
a pair of sweats before heading to class, but before you 
reach for your ?eece, check out these simple yet classy 
alternatives to spice up your fall wardrobe.
Colors
This seasons richest hues include garnet (deep red 
looks great with anything), olive (matches every shade of 
denim), and shimmery gold with muted navy (a classic 
preppy pairing). Whether you choose to add a scarlet 
lip to an all black ensemble or slip on a gold and navy 
striped cardigan, seasonally appropriate colors can add 
a vibrant edge to any out?t. If youre feeling up to the 
challenge, try your hand at some Oscar de la Rentainspired colors like peacock blue, salmon, or fuchsia, as 
displayed in his line at Fashion Week.
Prints
Instead of opting for last seasons boho-inspired, largeprint ?oral, try a fresh mini-?oral skirt in a fall color like 
navy or orange. Subtle animal prints can also amp up 
any classic out?t by giving it a sultry twist. Pair a simple 
Peter Pan-style button-down shirt and a pleated corduroy 
skirt with a leopard cardigan for a spin on classic prep 
style.
Fair Isle cashmere can be a cozy option for those crisp 
fall mornings. Combining your favorite Fair Isle sweater 
with a sweet, country-style gingham chino can give 
you a more laid-back look. For a more sophisticated 
alternative, twist the summer stripe by coupling it with a 
schoolboy blazer.
Textures
Although it may be easy to reach for that favorite pair 
of jeans each morning, try to get creative with your fall 
fabrics. Tone down the velvet seen in Gucci, Burberry, 
and Lanvins fall lines by incorporating smaller pieces 
of the elegant and luxurious fabric into your closet. You 
can combine style with practicality in a warm pair of 
eggplant velvet jeans or in an A-line velvet skirt.
Tweed can often be stereotyped as 1980s business suit 
or grandma chic, but you can transform the stiff fabric 
with a ?tted, slate gray tweed blazer and black leather 
pants. If tweed still seems too formal for your casual 
university style, corduroys can serve as your fall staple 
instead. Choose a punchy color like mint green, coral, or 
magenta to complement a simple Oxford shirt or a beige 
pullover.
Herringbone and boucl have brought warmth to a 
whole new level in fall fabrics. Usually on the thicker 
side, jackets and popovers in navy herringbone or boucl 
can add texture to an otherwise bland out?t  check out 
your local J.Crew for some great options.
Shoes
It is ?nally time to trade in those summer ?ip-?ops for 
a pair of suede brogues or patent leather loafers, which 
double as great complements for both formal skirts and 
casual denim. Because the equestrian trend has returned 
this season, a pair of over-the-knee leather boots will be 
a staple this fall. Look for a boot that ?ts tight to the calf 
and has a matte ?nish. If youre feeling a bit edgy, try 
your hand at a Calvin Klein-inspired snakeskin pump.
Calvin Kleins Spring/Summer 2013 line at Fashion 
Week can also serve as a beacon of light for those still 
stumped at the prospect of changing their wardrobe. 
When in doubt, keep it simple: Minimalism goes a long 
way. Although many of you may be tempted by those 
statement graphic tees, last years leggings, or a college 
sweatshirt, dare to try something new. If the task seems 
daunting, start out classic and trade in that T-shirt for a 
clean white Oxford.
Nol Um | Junior Staffwriter
Nol Um | Junior Photographer
First-year Sara Fields wears a thick sweater layered 
over a collared shirt to stay warm and chic.
Have your most stylish semester yet
These fall fashion tips will help you adapt your wardrobe to the cooler weather
Nol Um | Junior Photographer
Nol Um | Junior Photographer
Junior business administration major Pooja Tripathi 
pairs a patterned skirt with a simple dark cardigan.
Leather brogues are a fall shoe staple.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.17.125
Paperhouse
On DJing
During the summer, superstar EDM DJ deadmau5 caused 
a bit of controversy when he wrote a Tumblr post that 
called out fellow DJs (and himself) for the lack of skill 
involved in DJing. He wrote, I think given about one hour 
of instruction, anyone with minimal knowledge of ableton 
and music tech in general could DO what im doing at a 
deadmau5 concert.
As one might expect, throngs of DJs lashed out at 
deadmau5 for his oversimpli?cation of their performances. 
While aspects like song selection are undoubtedly 
important when DJing, the more relevant point deadmau5 
brought up is the lack of improvisation in the EDM world.
Most major EDM DJs show up to a venue not only with 
their DJ equipment, but also with a massive light and 
sometimes ?reworks show  shows that are planned out, 
moment by moment. Although the DJ may be twisting 
knobs, triggering effects, running loops, and making 
dramatic gestures, these movements are all pre-planned.
Im not saying lights and ?reworks are a bad thing, but 
when it comes to the point when an artist lets his live act 
dictate his musical performance, I have a problem with it. 
Deadmau5 and most other EDM DJs are like pop stars 
who lip sync their shows because actually singing would 
interfere with their dancing.
The creative tools that modern DJs have at their disposal 
are endless, and part of being a DJ is reaching beyond 
your comfort zone. Dont plan out your sets track by track 
and dont script out your knob turning. There are scores of 
DJs who follow this, still have fancy ?ashing lights, and still 
lead the crowd into a dancing fury.
So go home and start DJing. Youll be a professional within 
the hour  unless it really isnt as easy as the man with a 
?ashing mouse head makes it out to be.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Wild Nothing  Nocturne
Patti Smith  Banga
Robert Pollard  Mouseman Cloud
Passion Pit  Gossamer
Nicodemus  Moon People
Minus the Bear  In?nity Overhead
Golden Retriever  Occupied with the Unspoken
Dr. John  Locked Down
Various Artists  Just Tell Me That You Want Me: A Tribute to 
Fleetwood Mac
Faceless  Autotheism
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Broadway star sings intimate set
Ramin Karimloo performs to small audience at WQED
Broadway performer Ramin Karimloo put on an 
impressive and intimate show at 89.3 WQED 
headquarters in Oakland last Tuesday.
Karimloo is a well-known musical theater star, 
famous on Broadway for playing the Phantom in 
The Phantom of the Opera as well as playing the 
same role in the sequel Love Never Dies. Karimloo 
has also starred in the classic Broadway musical Les 
Misrables as both Enjolras and Jean Valjean, and is 
featured in the 25th anniversary recordings of both 
Les Misrables and The Phantom of the Opera.
The Iranian-born Canadian actor released a new 
album in April titled Ramin. The album includes 
many of his signature show tunes, as well as 
energetic pop music. Ramins visit to WQED was 
part of his concert tour and, all in all, the concert was 
engaging and musically satisfying.
In the intimate setting of WQEDs theater  the 
same where Mister Rogers was ?lmed  Karimloo 
was a joy to watch. He carried himself with a 
charisma that immediately attracted attention. With 
him were his band members and rising singersongwriter Sheri Miller.
Although the audience was somewhat small, 
Karimloos performance was anything but. He 
performed songs from his album, as well as original 
songs written by himself and longtime friend and 
actor Hadley Fraser. Additionally, he sang a few 
crowd favorites such as Bring Him Home from 
Les Misrables and Phantom ballad Music of the 
Night.
In addition to providing stunning vocals, Karimloo 
played several instruments during the concert. From 
the guitar to the banjo to the piano, Ramin played 
and sang beautifully. The experience was quite 
different from seeing him on stage in one of his 
signature roles, yet it was just as entertaining and 
impressive.
Surprisingly, Karimloo did not sing the famous Til I 
Hear You Sing from Andrew Lloyd Webbers Love 
Never Dies. This was an obvious disappointment to 
the crowd, for it was this song that introduced his 
voice to many of his current fans.
The backup vocals provided by Miller were 
unimpressive next to Karimloos voice; she seemed 
to have trouble keeping the harmonies in tune. 
During the show, she performed one of her original 
songs, which, despite interesting lyrics, fell ?at 
due to redundant chord progressions. Perhaps the 
concert would have been better with a backup 
vocalist as powerful and engaging as Karimloo 
himself.
Nevertheless, Karimloo put on a splendid show for 
his fan base in Pittsburgh. The concert ran a bit 
over two hours long, but did not feel at all lengthy. 
Karimloos outstanding voice and tremendous stage 
presence held attention the entire time.
Zachary Mendez | Staffwriter
Courtesy of The Associated Press
Ramin Karimloo is best known for his role as the 
Phantom in The Phantom of the Opera. While 
extremely different from his performance on stage 
as the Phantom, he put on a beautiful show at 
WQED last week.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 09.17.12
Sometimes, fact is truly stranger than ?ction.
Case in point: In 8, defense attorney Charles Cooper 
stutteringly argues to Chief Judge Vaughn R. Walker that 
he doesnt need evidence to prove his case. Its absurd 
to the point of disbelief, but the most shocking part is 
that it actually happened  in the most talked-about 
court case of 2010, no less.
Audience members got to experience this absurdity 
?rst-hand last Monday in McConomy Auditorium when 
the School of Drama and Alumni Relations presented 
a staged reading of the play, featuring Tony Awardnominated alum Rory OMalley (CFA 03).
8 tells the story of the court case against Proposition 
8, which amended the California state constitution 
to outlaw same-sex marriages. 8 is unique in that the 
entire play is compiled solely from interviews with the 
plaintiffs, quotes from media interviews, and court 
transcripts of the trial.
OMalley, who co-founded the marriage equality 
advocacy group Broadway Impact, ?rst had the idea for 
the play when a federal appeals court ordered that the 
video footage of the trial be sealed. He and the other 
co-founders of Broadway Impact, Gavin Creel and Jenny 
Kanelos, decided that it was important for the story of 
Perry v. Schwarzenegger, the court case in question, to 
be made public.
So, Academy Award-winning screenplay writer Dustin 
Lance Black combed through court transcripts and 
conducted interviews with the plaintiffs, then pieced 
together verbatim quotes to create 8. The ?rst reading 
in New York City took place last year and featured an 
all-star cast, including Morgan Freeman, John Lithgow, 
and another Carnegie Mellon alum, Matt Bomer (CFA 
01). Since then, over 275 readings have been held in 47 
states.
If you didnt know that the play was taken straight 
from court transcripts, you would ?nd its plot dif?cult 
to believe  the defense looks so inept that, were it 
?ction, you would roll your eyes at how one-sided the 
case seemed. But as OMalley emphasized in a Q & A 
session after the reading, Many times people thought 
that [Black] was writing it to make the other side look 
bad, [but] they really did look this bad.... I heard him say 
that he didnt think he needed any evidence in a federal 
courtroom, and it was shocking, but its not that he 
didnt need any, its just that he didnt have any.
While some of the material may be hard to believe, 
the reading, performed by OMalley and a mix of 
Carnegie Mellon students and professors, made it more 
convincing by bringing the script to life. Since the 
actors were reading the script while performing, some 
occasionally stumbled over their lines, but the fumbling 
proved to be only a minor distraction.
Assistant professor of acting Cameron Knight wielded 
sharp wit as David Boies, one of the attorneys for the 
plaintiffs; by showing Boies ?erce intelligence, Knight 
made it easy to understand why any potential witness 
for the defense would fear Boies cross-examination. 
Similarly, OMalley showcased plaintiff attorney Ted 
Olsons incredible oratory skills, delivering his closing 
remarks so movingly that it makes one wonder how 
anyone could ?nd court proceedings dry or dull.
On the other side of the aisle, associate professor 
of drama Ingrid Sonnichsen presented a deliciously 
despicable portrayal of Maggie Gallagher, the former 
president and co-founder of the National Organization 
for Marriage and an outspoken opponent of marriage 
equality.
The plays most compelling piece of evidence for 
marriage equality isnt actually from the trial, but rather 
from two of the plaintiffs: lesbian partners Sandy Stier 
(played by senior drama major Casey Anderson) and 
Kris Perry (senior drama major Emily Koch). In one 
scene during a court recess, they talk with their twin 
sons, Elliot (sophomore drama major Sawyer Pierce) and 
Spencer (sophomore drama major Steven Robertson) 
about the boys classes and what the family will do after 
the trial.
Interwoven throughout their conversation are cuts over 
to Gallagher, who is expounding upon the the damage 
that homosexual parents cause their children. Through 
the juxtaposition, the ordinary family conversation, 
heightened by the actors spot-on portrayal of family 
dynamics, becomes a profoundly touching counterargument to Gallaghers rant.
8 provides a captivatingly clear look at the Proposition 8 
case and proves that the facts point decidedly in favor of 
gay marriage. OMalley hoped that audience members 
who were undecided about the issue before seeing 8 
would take the evidence presented in the play to heart.
Although he admitted that most of the theater and 
theater-going community tends to already support 
marriage equality, he said that the play can equip 
viewers with arguments and evidence that they can 
use to convince others. We dont want to be preaching 
to the choir, he said. But we are teaching the choir to 
sing.
If 8 is its inspiration, that choir is sure to come away 
singing a beautifully convincing melody.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
To read The Tartans full interview with Rory OMalley, 
visit thetartan.org.
Court transcripts come to life in 8
Carnegie Mellon alum Rory OMalley returns to campus for reading of 2011 play
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
School of Drama alum Rory OMalley talks about 
participating in a reading of 8 with Brad Pitt in Los 
Angeles during the Q & A after last Mondays reading. 
Meg Evans, LGBTQ Resources Coordinator, was also 
present during the Q & A.

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 09.17.127
Its starting to look a lot like autumn. At NBC, this means 
not only the beginning of a new season and some new 
shows, but also the beginning of the end for some of our 
favorite comedies.
The Of?ce
The Of?ce has been a comedy warhorse since its 
stateside debut in 2005. Last season, its eighth, 
attempted to deal with the absence of Steve Carrells 
celebrated portrayal of Michael Scott. Ed Helms, of The 
Hangover fame, took on the lead role and the inimitable 
James Spader joined the cast as another socially inept 
boss. Overall, it seems the show has struggled with 
sustaining its energy after Jim and Pam reached stasis 
in their marriage. They built the emotional core of the 
show in its early years and were responsible for its many 
great season-closing moments. But theres another 
reason to look forward to the ninth and ?nal season. The 
Of?ce plans to bring back Greg Daniels, the producer 
responsible for its highly successful ?rst few seasons, 
and we can expect the return of many characters from 
Dunder Mif?ins history to round out the shows life. The 
new season premieres Sept. 20.
30 Rock
30 Rock, a reliable comedy about the inner workings 
of an NBC variety show, is in a similarly sinking boat 
as is The Of?ce. This season, set to begin Oct. 4, will 
be the last and will be abbreviated to only 13 episodes. 
Tina Feys writing has earned the show a whole cabinet 
of awards, still holding the record for most Emmy 
nominations for a comedy in a single year. While the 
show has fewer plot strands to resolve than The Of?ce 
does, the nuanced meta-comedy will be missed. The 
good news is that 30 Rock has never slowed down. 
Perhaps it has become a bit monochromatic as a number 
of characters begin to settle down, but the subtle, 
smiling satire of Kenneth Parcell still bites and Tracy 
Jordans loose cannon antics continue to inspire the best 
use of brief ?ashback since Arrested Development. Its 
still a marvelous show and, thankfully, well get to hear 
more of Jack Donaghys election commentary.
Parks & Recreation
Parks & Recreation remains the only comedy that is 
relatively stable as it enters its ?fth season, despite 
having the poorest ratings of them all. Luckily, its only 
getting stronger as the ?ctional town of Pawnee keeps 
developing itself into the most vivid local portrait on 
television. Amy Poehler, Nick Offerman, and Aziz Ansari 
continue to turn in strong readings of Michael Schurs 
writing. As Leslie Knopes love interest, Ben, takes off 
for Washington, we will get to see a masterful crew 
of ?lmmakers juggle two locations and the physical 
separation of a great on-screen duo. The absurd antics 
of Chris Pratts Andy Dwyer are as endearing as ever 
and, as the season four ?nale suggested, he will be 
attempting to join the Pawnee police force in upcoming 
episodes. The new season premieres Sept. 20.
The New Normal
Ryan Murphy, the creator of shows Nip/Tuck, Glee, and 
American Horror Story, has added a new show to the 
NBC comedy group that has stirred up plenty of talk 
since its debut last week. The New Normal wrestles 
with the desire of a young, married gay couple to start 
a family. Glee fans will recognize the shows attempt 
to deal with multiple viewpoints and arguments while 
looking to tolerance as a moral scoreboard. The show is 
based on Murphys real-life experience of trying to adopt.
Matthew Zurcher | Junior Staffwriter
NBC comedy lineup enters fall season
Some favorite comedies are entering their ?nal days, while others are just starting up
Matthew Zurcher | Junior Staffwriter
Prometheus
Saturday, Sept. 22
7 10 1
After an endless, deliberately vague marketing campaign 
that offered enough for even the most tepid fanboy to 
squeal, Prometheus arrived to general satisfaction in 
June, proving that it was indeed a prequel to the Alien 
franchise. Despite the ?lms messy plot structure, it is 
impossible to deny that Ridley Scott delivers a series of 
shimmering designs captured with his usual cinematic 
chutzpah.  
Noomi Rapace establishes herself as a capable 
multilingual actress in her ?rst major English 
performance, playing Elizabeth Shaw, a strong woman 
of devout faith. Charlize Theron is Meredith Vickers, a 
suspicious suit. And, of course, Michael Fassbender 
turns in a moving, nuanced portrait of David, an android 
more human than many of the other characters.
The Cambridge Footlights
Friday, Sept. 21
8 10
If youve yet to experience The Cambridge Footlights, 
get thee hence to McConomy Auditorium for a 
universally acclaimed hour of British sketch comedy, 
presented by ScotchnSoda. The Footlights are the 
nurturing environment out of which many of the greatest 
modern comedians have risen, including John Cleese, 
Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie, Julian Fellowes, and Douglas 
Adams. The troupe never fails to deliver a brilliant blend 
of comedy styles ranging from Python to Kaufman.
Alien
Sunday, Sept. 23
8 10 12
The granddaddy of all sci-? horror  or perhaps the 
grandmama?   Alien still stands as the greatest 
triumph of Ridley Scotts career. It demonstrates an 
impeccable control of suspense absent in Blade Runner 
and a patient, multilayered visual language that had 
disappeared by the arrival of Gladiator in 2000.
Alien tells the simple tale of a space-exploration crew 
trying to return to Earth. Sigourney Weavers Ellen 
Ripley has become an enduring icon in both cinematic 
history and feminist ?ction, and the ?lm boasts some 
of the boldest art design in recent memory, created by 
the twisted, genitalia-obsessed H.R. Giger. The ?nal 
15 minutes are a model of suspenseful editing and a 
triumph of visual effects. Alien is one of the best ?lms 
of 1979 and is required viewing for any fan of sci-? or 
horror.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 09.17.1298art
pillbox 09.17.12
The Imperfect Health exhibit at the Miller Gallery isnt 
just art  its a collection of thought-provoking pieces 
that range from the ordinary to the wildly imaginative. 
The pieces are part of a strikingly relevant social 
commentary and a deafening statement about the future 
of the world that will resound with students from every 
major and discipline.
The exhibit, which opened last Friday, is focused on the 
medicalization of architecture, and urban and landscape 
design. It is curated by Giovanna Borasi and Mirko 
Zardini, who are both architects and curators at the 
Canadian Centre for Architecture in Montral, which 
organized the exhibit. The exhibits pieces question 
whether health is the responsibility of the individual 
or society through analysis of architecture and other 
cultural components.
According to the gallery guide, Pittsburghs main 
industries since its steel days have been health care and 
technology  two important aspects of the shows major 
themes  making it an ideal city for the exhibit.
The project began as a way to study the effects that 
have resulted and will result in the future from the 
medicalization of all areas of society, but especially 
architecture. Our goal with this exhibition is to 
investigate the backside and the gray zone that 
architects dont want to speak about.... Were examining 
the ideas of urbanism, ef?ciency, speed, said Zardini, 
who came in with co-curator Borasi from Montral to 
give a special tour of the exhibit.
Its hard to ?nd something that hasnt been embodied 
by humans, Borasi said. Were studying and showing 
the unexpected consequences of work, like urbanization 
on nature for example. Its just dif?cult to de?ne, with a 
clear line, what is good and bad, and what is healthy and 
unhealthy right now for the future.
The exhibit features a wide variety of art forms: plans for 
mass pork production, a paper sculpture that represents 
mad cow disease, photographs of green spaces in cities, 
video clips of trees, diagrams of cells, music videos 
against e-waste, infrared images of parks, toy ?gurines 
from the movie Wall-E, and visualizations of air toxins 
and dust particles.
Each ?oor of the three-story exhibit is themed. The ?rst 
focuses largely on food production and agriculture, the 
second on green living in cities and urban development, 
and the third on physical health and aging.
...Because our bodies are the only thing left to us. Years 
ago, we had the possibility of improving and making 
progress to share in our society. We had a collective hope 
for a better future. But now, the faith in the collective, 
the hope for a better future, has been lost. Mentally, we 
protect all that we have left, Zardini said about the 
focuses of the exhibit.
A heavy emphasis on the future of architecture and, in 
a broader sense, society, gives the exhibit an almost 
futuristic feel. However, each ?oor features boxes on the 
wall that focus on a theme in the news, bringing it back 
to the present. The news themes include epidemics, 
obesity, allergies, asthma, cancer, and aging; the articles 
date from the 1920s to as recently as a few months 
ago. The staff will continue to update these boxes with 
current events as they occur.
Additionally, Borasi and Zardini have included the stairs 
and elevators in the exhibit. Zardini explained that the 
elevator is a prime example of the medicalization of 
architecture. Although it was originally created to make 
life easier both for those who have trouble going up and 
down the stairs and those who dont, the elevator has 
now taken on a negative connotation.
Its now considered a way to enable obesity, Zardini 
said. And since personal health is now a public concern, 
architects are now trying to hide the elevators in their 
designs.
The exhibit has been under construction since the 
summer, with student employees from all disciplines 
coming together to help get it up and running. While 
many students in design and art management are 
involved with the gallery, other majors and programs are 
represented as well.
Sophomore computer science major Eugene Scanlon 
was part of the tech crew that helped compile the 
exhibits technical features, including televisions, DVD 
loops, and projectors. Its a great exhibit to come to, 
because theres so much interesting stuff. I think itll 
really help people think about things outside of their 
majors, Scanlon said.
The exhibit is full of surprising details that give visitors 
a complete experience. For Fridays event, the female 
student workers and staffers donned paper nurses caps, 
a small but clever nod to the nuances of the exhibit.
Overall the exhibit is clearly laid out, but is slightly 
overwhelming at times. The focus is extremely broad 
and dynamic, with futuristic architecture in one corner 
Imperfect Health provides societal health report
New Miller Gallery exhibit features thought-provoking pieces of social commentary
Guests at the opening reception last Friday explore the exhibit after a guided tour with the curators. 
                 Courtesy of The Miller Gallery
by Laura Scherb | Junior Staffwriter[]
of a room, scienti?c research on domestic dust in 
another, and a study on aging in yet another. Walking 
through, its dif?cult to discern what exactly the 
curators message is. Without hearing ?rsthand the 
personal statements of the two curators, as visitors on 
Friday did, it may be nearly impossible to derive the 
exhibits sophisticated meaning.
There is a clear emphasis on architecture that winds 
throughout, however, as emphatically discussed by the 
curators: The object of architecture should not be to ?nd 
a cure or a solution [to the health and industry problems] 
that exist. It should be to propose something to take care 
of us, Borasi said.
Its challenging to meld the three themes of food 
production, urban planning, and health and aging 
into one project that has a cohesive thread, but the 
information presented is relevant and sobering. Whether 
or not you can synthesize an easy explanation from the 
exhibit, it will no doubt leave you with much to think 
about and new perspectives from which to regard 
everyday objects and events.
The exhibit is educational and analytic, and is perhaps 
best described as a societal, physical, and mental health 
report. Rather than showcasing theme-centered works 
of art, the exhibit invites critical thought by displaying 
scienti?c evidence pertaining to the present state of 
society and the possible consequences of trying to solve 
these problems.
This was the hardest exhibit weve ever created, 
Zardini said. We dont have a slogan or a quick thing 
we can give you to go and tell people about what 
youve seen here. You dont walk out with a clear-cut 
conclusion, just a lot of things to think about.
The Miller Gallery is located in the Purnell Center for the 
Arts and will feature Imperfect Health until Feb. 24.
                 Kate Groschner | Staff Photographer
Imperfect Health employs a wide range of mediums and raises serious questions about food production, urban 
planning, and health and aging.

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 09.17.12
The powerful bass vibrations and skin-prickling 
vocals of AWOLNATION were heard at the 
Altar Bar last Thursday in a sold-out show that 
disappointed no one.
The California-based band rose to its current 
stardom last year with the release of its epic 
single, Sail, and is also known for songs like 
Burn it Down, Guilty, Filthy Soul, and Not 
Your Fault. Recalling the screaming vocals of 
Nirvana, elating chorus characteristic of gospel, 
and bassy tones of dubstep, the groups music 
cannot be placed in any one genre, making its 
recent album Megalithic Symphony fall into a 
genre of my own, as lead singer Aaron Bruno 
said in an interview before the show.
White Wives, ZEALE, and Imagine Dragons 
 three acts ranging from hard rock to hiphop  opened for AWOLNATION, re?ecting 
the wide range of the bands music. Although 
White Wives intense guitar lines invoked no 
more than slight head-nodding in the audience, 
ZEALEs indie hip-hop sound provoked a 
remarkable increase in energy in the crowd. By 
the end of Imagine Dragons, the audience was 
buzzing with adrenaline.
Throughout the show, AWOLNATIONs Bruno 
maintained a strong bond with the audience. I 
prefer smaller venues like the Altar Bar because 
you feel intimate with the crowd, he said. 
This intimacy was de?nitely present during the 
show as he masterfully conducted the crowds 
energy throughout the night. During the vitalitypacked hit, Burn it Down, he told the audience 
to get close to the ground and, after a few 
seconds of slow guitar-strumming and toothgrinding efforts to resist jumping, the crowd 
simultaneously leaped up in the air and wildly 
danced to the song.
The band maintained a balance between 
intense and soft emotions throughout the night. 
During one of the calmer songs, Bruno asked 
members of the crowd to put their arms over the 
shoulder of the person standing next to them, 
Even if you dont know them  especially if 
you dont know them. Later in the night, he 
shared a particularly intimate moment with the 
audience when, having been left alone on stage, 
he broke into a genuine, heartfelt rendition of 
Lean on Me by Bill Withers, offering his lone 
voice to the audience in all its imperfection.
As a whole, AWOLNATIONs excellent 
performance at the Altar Bar can be explained 
by the same factors that make its songs go 
beyond the boundaries of simple likeability:   
Rock band mesmerizes audience
AWOLNATION captivates with rebellion, romance, revolution
Lead singer Aaron Bruno led AWOLNATIONs 
energetic and engaging show at the Altar Bar last 
Thursday. 
Courtesy of Chuff Media
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Oct. 10, 1912
The Tartan advertises its subscription 
rate at $1 for an entire school year, 
or five cents per issue. Additionally, 
students wishing to share an issue with 
a loved one back home can leave five 
cents and the address in The Tartan 
office. Five cents is all the paper asks 
to mail an issue out of town.
50years ago
Sept. 3, 1962
First-year students are asked to share 
their impressions of Carnegie Tech. 
Answers offered include, I wondered 
where the rest of the girls were, 
What is this thing called sleep? and 
I cant walk on the grass. Despite 
the schools name change, Carnegie 
Mellon hasnt seemed to change 
much.
25years ago
Sept. 15, 1987
Students address issues they have 
with overcrowded classrooms. Porter 
Halls basement is cited for rooms 19 A 
 C, 20, and 21 being allowed to seat 
60 people. Students question whether 
moving classes to later in the day 
would benefit both those registering 
and the overcrowding problem.
10years ago
Sept. 16, 2002
Another Carnegie Mellon innovation: 
the first emoticon. Two School of 
Computer Science doctoral students, 
Mike Jones and Jeff Baird, discover the 
original use of the :-) on a Computer 
Science general bboard at Carnegie 
Mellon. Their research suggests the 
smiley first appeared at Carnegie 
Mellon in 1982.
5years ago
Sept. 17, 2007
With the Business Opportunities 
Conference and Technical 
Opportunities Conference looming 
in the near future, The Tartan breaks 
down which companies students in 
each major should focus their attention 
on. Even College of Fine Arts students 
and English students are provided with 
options.
1year ago
Sept. 19, 2011
A big week in womens varsity athletics 
excites teams for the future of the 
season. Womens volleyball and soccer 
teams each bring home their fourth 
consecutive win of the season. Mens 
sports fall behind the womens for the 
week.
The equilibrium between hope and desperation, 
rebellion and romance, wild guitar riffs and heavenly 
choruses gives its listeners an unintimidating, almost 
visceral feeling of revolution. Perhaps the bands tour 
motto best summarizes it: Never let your fear decide 
your fate.
Su Baykal | Junior Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.17.1211
Stick Cats #3 by Nick Marino nickmarino@gmail.com
  Online at www.nickmarino.net
Skinny Jeans by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.17.12
How to get out of paying your friend back by Doghouse Diaries
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.17.1213
Solutions from Sept. 10, 2012
CrosswordVery Hard DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14Sloth-o-scopes
pillbox 09.17.12
1. Bedouin
2. Paul Sorvinos daughter
3. Score after deuce
4. Privateer
5. Terran
6. Flight formation
7. Periods of history
8. Nabiscos _____Wafers
9. Greek letters
10. In spite of the fact
11. 500 sheets
12. Division preposition
13. Meets with
19. Ages and ages
21. Rapper born Tracy Marrow
25. Satisfies
27. Prefix with profit or fiction
28. Number game of chance
29. Shed _____
30. Gauchos rope
31. Governor in Mogul India
33. Hindu teacher
34. Conger catcher
35. Raison _____
38. Pave over
41. Unusual
43. Medicine for muscle strain
46. Pipe down!
48. Contradict
51. Schilling replacement
53. Completely dirty
55. Stallion, e.g.
57. Some DVD players
58. 3:00
59. Ultimatum word
61. Whats ____ for me?
63. Switch ending
64. Approach
65. Fictional Jane
67. Fish appendage
68. One ___ million
 1. Latin 101 word
 5. Tied
 9. Seine spot
 14. Travel on
 15. Ethereal: Prefix
 16. Actress Graff
 17. La Scala solo
 18. Property
 20. Outlaw
 22. ___-mo
 23. Med. care providers
 24. Phil of folk
 26. Part of A.D.
 28. Flatboat captain
 32. Drunk
 36. Mineral suffix
 37. Golden Horde member
 39. Monetary unit of Zambia
 40. Type of tide
 42. More current
 44. Sentrys shout
 45. Entrances
 47. Satisfied
 49. Debussys La ___
 50. Mountain spinach
 52. Bonfire
 54. No way
 56. Wife of a rajah
 57. Winder for holding flexible 
material
 60. Louis XIV, e.g.
 62. Benzene derivative
 66. State in the W United States
 69. Deuce topper
 70. Very, to Verdi
 71. ____ Fein
 72. Frost
 73. Severe
 74. Coup d____
 75. Days of ____
 
ACROSSDOWN
Sloth-o-scopes
aries
march 21april 19
Your hypothesis is correct. Rush through the test so that 
you can get to the conclusion and get out of the lab.
taurus
april 20may 20
Dont time your presentation. Life is short and youre too 
busy to waste that kind of time.
gemini
may 21june 21
Why look in that big book for the correct verb? The whole 
point of learning a language is to immerse yourself in the 
lives of others, and people make mistakes all the time.
cancer
june 22july 22
You used the right equation, so dont seek confirmation by 
looking in your notes. Move on to the next problem set.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Why look for bugs in your program? You have been working 
on it for the past five hours  what could possibly be 
wrong with your code?
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Skip rehearsal  youre dripping with natural talent. 
Rehearsal will just get in the way of sleep.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Trust me, the whole crew read every page of your packet 
and fully understands the plays history. No need to sit and 
talk about dead people.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
No need to double check; you know what youre doing. Im 
sure its level. Is there really such a thing as a straight line?
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Add more yellow and then youre done.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Just pick any thesis sentence; your argument will be fine.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Just pick a disorder and a friend, and fill in his or her 
behavior as you see fit. Trial tests and observations are for 
losers.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont check that solution. The answer has to be zero.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.17.1215
MONDAY9.17.12
GZA. Altar Bar. 7:30 p.m.
Hip-hop artist and founding member of Wu-Tang Clan 
GZA will perform at the Altar Bar. Sweet Valley, Killer Mike, 
and Bear Hands will also perform.
TUESDAY9.18.12
Metric. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
The Canadian indie rock band, fronted by Emily Haines, 
will perform at Stage AE with Canadian shoegaze group 
Half Moon Run.
The Hood Internet. Rex Theater. 9 p.m.
Chicago-based production duo The Hood Internet will 
perform at Rex Theater. The duo specializes in creating 
mashups of hip-hop and indie rock. Body Language, My 
Gold Mask, and Oscillator Bug will open the show.
WEDNESDAY9.19.12
Beats Antique. Mr. Smalls Theater. 8 p.m.
Mr. Smalls Theater will host a night of experimental 
electronic and world beat music from Beats Antique.
THURSDAY9.20.12
3 Doors Down. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
Legendary late-90s band 3 Doors Down will play its 
signature grungy alternative rock at Stage AE.
FRIDAY9.21.12
Portraits of a Garden, Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Florilegium. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. 9 a.m.
The exhibit will showcase work from 48 American 
botanical artists who are creating an archive of 
watercolors and drawings of the plants at the Brooklyn 
Botanic Garden. The selected pieces will be displayed 
with historical printed volumes from the Hunt Institutes 
collection. The gallery operating hours are available at 
huntbot.andrew.cmu.edu.
Strange Attractors screening. Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
(477 Melwood Ave.). 8 p.m.
Strange Attractors: Investigations in Non-Humanoid 
Extraterrestrial Sexualities includes the work of 70 
artists, writers, and ?lmmakers who explore possible 
extraterrestrial life forms and their various sexual desires. 
The screening will include a selection of videos from 
the DVD with live readings by local writer Ed Steck and 
Carnegie Mellon associate professor of art Suzie Silver. A 
release party will follow the free screening.
Kode9. 6119 (6119 Penn Ave.). 10 p.m.
London-based electronic DJ Kode9 will perform with 
Depth One.
SATURDAY9.22.12
Pittsburgh Zine Fair. Wiegand Gymnasium. 11 a.m.
The second annual Pittsburgh Zine Fair will take place 
this Saturday on Carnegie Mellons campus, featuring 
work from 40 local and regional zine-makers. The fair 
will also include workshops, demonstrations, and panel 
discussions.
White Cube, Green Maze opening. Carnegie Museum 
of Art. 10 a.m.
White Cube, Green Maze: New Art Landscapes will 
open at the Heinz Architectural Center. The exhibit 
includes models and drawings by architects and 
landscape architects who have worked on collaborative 
projects, focusing on six sites from around the world: the 
Olympic Sculpture Park (U.S.), Stiftung Insel Hombroich 
(Germany), Benesse Art Site Naoshima (Japan), Instituto 
Inhotim (Brazil), Jardn Botnico de Culiacn (Mexico), 
and Grand Traiano Art Complex (Italy).
ONGOING
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit is 
guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon professor of art theory 
and criticism Hilary Robinson.
 
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
TUTOR NEEDED FOR 4th GRADER Student 
at Oakland area school needs a devoted tutor 
for ongoing support in math and reading. 
Transitioning from India to U.S. educational 
system. 3-5 hours a week in Oakland area. 
Hindi speaking a plus. Please provide 
background information, availability, and 
requested rate. Contact me at: aug142000@
yahoo.com
Agency Contact Representative - Be part 
of an energized, fun and productive team. 
We are looking for someone whos upbeat, 
talkative, friendly, and projects a good attitude. 
Candidates who dont accept NO too easily. 
Part-time $10/hr. 412-874-1893

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 09.17.12
Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
Its never too early to start preparing for Sweepstakes. Last Sunday saw the ?rst day of rolls on Frew 
Street. Student Dormitory Council (SDC), Carnegie Involvement Association (CIA), and SPIRIT, from 
top to bottom, were three of the teams that rolled on Sunday. The ?rst day of rolls was scheduled for 
Saturday, but had to be postponed because the no parking signs had not been put in place.
rolls.
