VOL. XXI NO. 13CARNEGIEINSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY/ PITTSBURGH,; PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1926
GREEKS WILL 
DANG FEB, 18 
AT SCHENLE
Industrial Relations Dept. Has
Extensive Magazine Service
Ipana Troubadore, Prince 
of Wales or WhiteyKaufmans'WiUFurnish .Music
VOL.X IXN 13 $s;oo
plans To Advance Dato Are 
s ' Abandoned By the 
Committee.
The committee-In charge of the aoausl Ictsr-iratnUty FonaaTauoeoeded IflBtiWaeb in making definito 
arrangements forth. dance. The dat' has, been announced doy ovonlng, February 18: and he Bchenley hotel hallroem has been securedtor this occasion. Next week will find the committee in a ' position to announce v.hat orches-' tra -Ul /play tor them. However, 
they, an . considering  the Ipana Trt>b$dpn^-'.and*.'tbo '!princp of Wales orchestra oj the bast that pen be ojaalped.'. ;-.^be . PMwie of WalcB ou'flt is well Known for Ita 
syncopation by those whoattended the Sopii Hop and,; consequently.
Ip'ajmndatlon. The i Troubadours., sa e, areevenbeter.
.The: personnel of, the. coqimHtoe for .'tbiB .'vont seema .to, guarantee tie success of tli donee lu t respot.George Pettieord,TheW :Pl fraternity, has charge, of the refreshments; Stanley Abbot, AlphaTau Oraego fraternity, will attend' to the music;' Earl Bobel, Slgm Phi : Epsilon, has1 provided 
 tjiefavrjandInthpr pereoH'.of Bob Strove, kappa Sigma '.fraternity, the committee has a chalrliw-who is fi|:re t<> Be'tbinothing is overlooked whichwill make /;thp .Formol th biggesttelai eof the
'j When interviewed, "Bubbles' Bobel anld that the favore -were.lt 
be the most:unique.that have evi l^eh seen at a dance of this na .. ture.Tho announcement ; oi.thedat and place at this'early'date, prioi even to the selection of the or chestra, is to enable nil: fraternity men. to cast tentative A eye uponpur fair-'cAeds /ai\d sear'i Uielr. date .before the 'zero pur. The attendance this ; year' will be li and.In a few wealiS.some'.of Greek "letter men" wtti be dashing around the campus besieging the phono booths In their effort to-se
cure dates for the t-lg dance. So, play safe and'make that date uow. The assessment for the Formal will be. as usual, five dollars per codple.All fraternity men.and of course, 
their lady friends, will be welcomed. -Since .the dance, is not primarily , for members .^of fraternitiee ulth . chapters, at Carnegie, th Iuterfraternlty Formal will'be 
one;-ot th mostnotable f events of the year
SCHFDULE PLUMBING 
CONFERENCE FOR 
JANUARY 18, 19, 20
 The Third .Annual Thre Institute! .for ' members ,of 
plumbing. heating, and.ygntllatlng industrfeerbas been schedule" January 18, Id, and 20. Th sfltjute-is conducted each year by ^e.Departmepf.pfrHe^Une,.Piumbr
tempt
- auspices of the Departm duetrial Relations...In'tiieee three-days, a: lis made to give the Industry' informatioti and ideas' of yit .Importance to them. These Ideas are ap piled nw*t tested ' by . the vatiout delegates who attend the Insti tute. in this way, the departmem .feels that they .are giving he.pubr . lie sometin.VtliV' nect, - The; i\ greased , attendance ' at' eachsu ceedlng convention Indicates thi the work of the Carnegie institute of Technology In this field' prelateiTby.thtrade.- < interesting' tp notethat:these, fchreerty 
wnya been planned -and. conducted by our own fecuiiy. There 
outside uspe!kers. scheduli any of the-Knu^erous} asemblle^ This year Dh.LaigantiDr. Decker have prepared ; av . yr^''  ihofoiigh, ttlrupontb; r^U'tin^flrpiumjjlpg to the health of.Lhe individuai? , i  addition to these/' ectrep ^Prpfei . eors; Leigbon, .Bibbie, Auie'. - and. 
Dunnels, and: Dr. Ritlman will .d(spuss various mechanical and r eelentlfic-a.Bpcet'e -of the 'lndustries. :|S,yf'r nw. deaa iwalt the . .,delGgu}.9a this y^ar. ^.. cojnplete 
; h^!|iig;'vJob;;hka  ready^Lbe^ jn;
Jrtpj'al.ory,The.'.V.unlqUe j}. feature ' of 1 this.; Inetaiutlon la , the.
/tt-^ ihat . ,widing::' lia3r b<; for . the usual threaded
- Dibble has .made *oi ..,. .\ttn'g^xpHmnts : )n. th4fl field . and ' will demonstrateeejnbied delegates i tt; stipertorl^ o^: pie welded installation.
.'-i./The aUendancis ^of.-'a;.. .d^lec4to;lf'a}rfcdy'lau>ed. The. 
^ iyiaV'(oount wUr w------- "*
,Tbe-Department of - Industrial R^-
are seeking information on the ilea) and industrial situation of. the'different industrtealinthe United SlateB. The folowlng is taken from the "Employjeo Magazlnea in 
United States," a publication of the National Industrial Conference. Board, and explains the purpose use . of employee magasines* From time to time, .the Teaden of the Tartan will be given-additional information regarding the material which Is available for them In this office.  sThe eWToyee'magte'ibc hatf'come Into widespread, use In -Jie poat decade as a practical method by which .closer contact among those
engaged in Industry may be.' achieved. With the growth' in size 
Pkopfly. establlabments^a&thMncrease^ com^eHty of holiness or* ganlzations, the. personal working ilatlonshlps ot earlier days have changed or passed. Business, It Is said, haB become more indent-.but less,human. But, wbUe neither possible'nor desirable 
for fhdustry to move backward to a simpler orgnnlzatlon, experience has shown that it is possible to'instill tn the larger modern productive unit ssmethlng of the earUer sense of unity. This the employee magazine attempts to do by means of ttef praied^Wfd; y . 'a.no way.-to be confused with
'/house'organ, w$ose aim'Isfrankly sales promotion and whose
Arts Tea Fight to 
Be Held Thursday
Peter Ryggsky Suffering 
From Hallucinations: 
IWantaBaby
PLANS REVOLUTIONS
Revolution! ' Anarchy! Bloody ar Is declared! Thus the Tea Fight preliminary, which,.- eiperta, iy, will load to tho. most horrible Revolution that has ever occurred,. It will actually, outclass the Russian knlte^tbrowlug of a few years agot And all of thlB Is rapidly creeping npon us. Anarchists ex
pect events to reach a head about February 4, 1927.
The preliminary Tea Fight, with. Wadesky. Adamsowlte at the head of the revolting, party, will be battled royally In the Arts Foyer Thursday afternoon at 4:30, by any old clock. Governmeot 'offlcItUs, Xhsn'Tiurrledly  Interviewed regard^, log' the approaching-' catastrophe; said .that the battleNwas'to .be exclusively Arts,, and that':the anderlylDg motive was'to' entrench the Palana on the side of tbe feminine contlngeUt of Ihefnailon.'1. Admitting they were-worried by the present situation, the rebels con^ cocted this vlie plan so that neither male' norfemale Arts' rebel might
olution occdr's.in Fo&ruary,' " ,' r Aji*sldesl are completing plane; and hurried confereneea. In dim lit 
s speak mutely of the hbrtlble tblngrto come. Adanisowltz'let slip' 8;- 'few - AVoidaa ' thouBattd-mlle' walk!surprise for the Plebeiana precious 'souvenirs^thousands' of beautiful.' girlsall of . this .for. Thursday afternoon*". Melodious modern music provocaUngly. sub-med.Every.
students up to janitors, Is under, the impression that Pete Ryggsky Is suffering hallucinations.' ' Who wouldnt thluk the same of a wildeyed peraon who grabbed you by the ear. a.nd yejlsd into it, ! .'Want % Baby! Some babieB were produced but seemed undesirable. After calming Ryggsky down with a bucket of cold water, we managed to get 'him in an unguarded mo
ment and learned that the afo. mentioned; much-wanted baby, w to i>e feminine, quite beautiful a Continued on Page Taree)
Entertainment Provided by 
Y.M.C.A. During Holidays
. Any member of the Y. M.- C. A., 
who is not golog home over Christmas, will be. assured of a ..good Chrlstpia^ dlnftef. vth^.prlvJlegeB.of. 'the t. M. C. A. In town or in   Liberty, and perhaps a skating arty at Duquesne Qardess.The Chrlstma dinner will be held at the home of the Rev. Dr., 
MeLepd. pastor of the, Shady Side Presbyterian Church. Dr. McLeod Is very .popular with the college students and any students who at? teod wlll be. certain to have a won? derful time and an excelleat din?
:iier^;. - - .............. The members .of the local Y. M. C. A. who sUy. on'the campus will -begiven full membership catds With which they will be .able to' gaia admittance to the privileges of. 'the downtown and.Gast Liberty 7; M. C, A: Thls caJd will bo good only from December. 8 to January 3. Tlie etudenta will be able' to use the "Y" swimming pools and any. other .means of lentertalnment which' ire vniikhle;- .  ? ' ' .'If there is a sufficient number, of stidhts .sikyl^^ skating p^rty . wlll b^ organized.' Te urty iliiV.be.beld'at Duquesife' Gar.deris. near th .intersection ot Craig street and Fifth,avenue ; Mr. Dayie. Y. M. C, A. secre hopeathM all the students wi p^ta Vwith im fpr the good of he! grpup;:.of meiL and women ;who,".or. onie^' raiibnl^or^hthrr;aM;b'ot ^l^^i-.'go/hom&for^.^
function ot the Internal publication or employee magazine la oBsentlally educational and its Buccess' ls measured fa terms of the degree of mutual understanding existing between munagement and labor In the business group which It serves, and In terms of the spirit of loyalty, co-operation,,and pride ot.acContlnued'on'Pagei Three.1)1 
Gen; Assembly Tues, 
To Feature Quartet
Monthly Assembly Nexf 
Tues. in Music Hall
The regular monthly General Asssmbly, to be held , next Tuesday morning at . the Muslo hall, will be the occasion of a very delightful entertainment fofall Carnegie .Students. The Pennsylvania Railroad quartet composed of employees of the company, will be present for the purpose or entertaining - and
1 Severdlsolos, duet;' and songs4>y the entire quartet will make up. the entire program, with the exception of; the.usual. Carnegie songs and cbeers. Tbo assembly.;la expected to be' particularly.satls.fying, inasmuch ad the quartet has proved 
to be rory popular slace jts iscepr lion. They will, sing this evening, at the annual banquet of the New -York Rotary .iciub at the .Waldorf-AstoHai'rhetelr,--It^haa--'beeh-.;iEa1d: .that the quartet iB-a greater favor-, lte with the publiQ. than any other musical : organization formed - e* clusively of employees of any con-' cerp Jg jftp tipltgd,States.. A stan4>. Ing lnvilalion to broadcast from ail the leading radio stations has beenl accorded them.
The complete program of the qusrtet will <be published In the next laue of the Tartan, which may be obtained before going down to assembly.
2nd Annual M. M. C.f 
Color Day Will be Dec. 7
thisi FresFaculty Advisor will bd* and those. Thecom who pass th quiz given by the Y. W. C.' A., W, A_ A., Guild, and Student Senate, Will be honored by having the Freshman colors pinned on' them.On Novembsr SO at the M. M assembly, following a shpr^address by President Baker, representatlyes pt.the, Y. .y^, C, 4.,,,W. A.  A., Gulid, and Senate told, the Freshmen of the alrne and activities ol the organizations. The following day, each of the. assocl^i^s submitted a list of questions to the Plelbes os a quiz to determine those who had. taken a real Interest in school .affairs and,thus won ibe honor of receiving their clas'e colors on Qolor Day!".At the Color Day Assembly, the Junior Class president . will pre; sent the Freshman president with a' -basket of . flowers. Those who (Continued on Page Three.)
Ut.entiir'ands^ be\held In February .and March, u usuai.^ U.^badv been rumored that theywoiild . be - omitted from. thU arPcklendar because ' of . the expnr.
TALKING TO. MEN ISCHIEF OFFENSE - OF
' FRESHMEN GIRLS
. TJie Freahiijan girls of Margaret Morrison, have .been having their tribulations and trials:mostly th trials. '.While one Plebe measured the Schenley Brldge with a centimeter rale, another measureii Woodiawn .avenue, , and two wrote essays 'Q "Why; .a . Frog' has Warts,'' and. th ^Gentle; Art..of Neckiriff-" which ':th$y ''read 'b'ettirj un assembly. The artistic Ideas of 
the. Sopiiomores.-In ..unique, faahina.^of;, hair_v braiding end -silly 'decoration have hh dlspd' ni the hutrible ; set . ' Every . Plebe - who' ls put up for} trial, must wear black' cotton hose and use no cosmetjca' for T lifnitd period of. time.- ?The 
Plebes. ftaye bwn. pf njuh service ta>^rrying>^l^t..l^Be/. adverse-: ra<en,te ;;.i-; theiri.i)acks':. aiidin-rsn* ning - the milliph . and one errandswhich upper class'girls manage ^to contrive'. Many,;..ot the Plebei have been, ecnibblngr' ixtoms .for' thelr aupeflore. ^.{ Dorothy LUtx, clial7man of tbs' Rgulations^ Coz^Utee'-slateS tbst their three greateat ":< faut^ ; arc.' 
teing impude&t, formt^ng an rm bud.-. imd tal)dni (^\zDen. Fortbrejsmngiibe.se Vules. they pjre-bet
ing^iulyjirewarded. . no hop' *"T^ J'; e
SIGMA NFRAT 
VIOLTES NEW 
RUSHINGRLES
I3r. SchOen Debates U. of Pitt Prof. 
On Importance of Environment
Sigma Nu Fraternity De
nied the Right of Pledging 
Hushee; Fmed 25 Dollars
NEXT COUNCIL MEET 
WILL BE SAT. DEC. 11
Interjr^tenifty Ooundl - Gives 
Cup to Winner of Cross* 
Country Meet
Today finds Carnegie, at the 
lelght ot the Fraternity Rushing leosona period peculiar In that t marks the first trial of the ne?. system, of deferred. nishlog .and a period apparently attended by the most cut-throat and. backrsiashlng methods In.the Frntarnlty .history 
of Carn^le.  ,> .
. The -last ..pieatlng of .the. inter'fraternltKc'ouncllon'fSatuEd&yw^a upled almost entirely by dlaicusslon.ot.thlB most' pertinent lSr sue. The Investigatingcommittee reported finding several violations of the rules. However only, one case has as yet been defiUtlteiy proven. The Sigma Nu fraternity 
was found guilty ot breaking the' rules laid down by the.conqclL' They were fined 9% and were denied the rigtit of bidding the. man for whom, the rule was violated.; The charge' brought against Sigma: Nu was that;-bf hayJng arranged: dates with a freshman prior to 
8:30 Monday morning.,
Hoad Convention Report . . 
Another question which  was brought up was that of'-the eligibility of pledges to live In .thei vari*. ous. fraternity houses. prior to;, the 'second-.- BemeBiBR', Howover,-the ruleB as given' iQ'the plebe blble clearly state that .any Freshuian. shall be eligible to lire Jo the fra ternlty house of his choice immediately following his pledgeshlp; Sunday noon of thla week. . , I : President: of -the: council, Hill, read, a report on the recentcoun-j' try;wlde Interfraternity conven* tlon ; in ., New . York in which br.o^b>;.out,the^^t-,th'atjin:;m 'colleges' "where . deferred rushing! had been , tried, it was found to have worked out succssBfuUy.:It 1i unfortunate that Carnegies first trial of deferred rushing should 
De.-acoompanieo'i ny toeamount or cut-threat methods and untruthful back-slashing which seems tobe rife this year. Rumors ot high 
: critlDr. ; Max Schoen, head of the Prcbclogy department of Camegie .Tpch. debated.on Novmber-a4^witb.- D Roswell Johnson .at the' Firat Ualtarlin . Church on the. -relaUve importance of heredity and envlLaet year. Dr. Schoen gav a eerle^ of tour open forum dtscuisslons nt|thla'church, one ot which' dealt with' the subject !of heredity.  He stressed the fact that heredity was abused, and' that false Interpretatliiba drawn from the doctrine ot hetedlty wore unscientific. For example, - that ' heredity U the chief maker.of hipian character, and that, It predetermines "'Intliliico' are' twn. popular misconceptions. On the whole.Bald Dr. Scloen..Recent-developments In the study of heredity show that it is not as fatab a thing es lt is made out to be.". ;: vMembere ot the church,' who had beon. In the audience at the time an^l. remembered this , particular lecture, asked Dr. Schoen to publlc|y-.dlECQ8s the .matter. ,The debate was .formally worded: Kospti/ed; ,'That Environment >s More. Important'.thoit Heredity; in. Form, i^ Human CharactrlUca'.',r ' The negative side-of the question was defended by Dr. Roswell. Johnson, a .professor at, the University of 
Pitysburgh. aiid a natlonul author. Ityj on; Eugenios, on which subject ho -hns written, several nationallyknown .bpokB. , Dr. Schoen argued tha negative side ot the question.'. lir. : Sohoeh maintained' principally that, slnoe .the human organism Ib at birth -but a helpless mass ofltndonctes. and since, the environment determines what ..shall ultimately become of these tendencies, it. Is environment which con* stiiutos the Important factor In th life of an individual. There arp no jindivldual differences at birth," heisald. 'There are Inborh IndU yijual differences .in-capacity and
! : The Bach Choir of the Departrnant of t-ihIna will give a concert ittojftgh.V1>at; in the theater of ^tte^lieB^^TSneATliTThe choir will he directed'.by Miss Jean D. and will sing tho followTHISTLE TO CONDUCT 
BEAUTf CONTEST SOON
Due to the fraternity rushing season the taking of the group fraternity plctores. and  the^re1 malnder of the group and individual pictures will probably be postponed until after the Christmas vacation. Many photographs hai been taken, but there remain about GO group and 1-00 individual photographs.
The Thistle of 1927 will continue tho beauty contest-as has been the custom for several years. The flvo
was at first' doubtful whethfei not the-contest would be coi ued, due to the confusion resulting in the mind of the public from choosing ,qf. a campus .queer well as the most beautiful girl.
The . |927 Thistle: cover is now being designed by'the Da,vld J. Molloy company, of Chicago. .It will probably feature.Machinery Hell, and promises to be a work of 
art In .every detail.- .All work on the Thistle ' is being rushed in order that the yearbook may be completed in plenty ot time.
VTed,,.Mgore,- editoria -chief, of the Thlstler partlcblaHy ' urges all return, their pr6ots, as 
Leeded Immediately.<t -done extra cuts' will made, and the. amoui ' the delinquents. Tt
thishave, to be charged Senior p
turned; out remarkably well, ; evidenced by the fact that i 
of the Seniors hare ordered i
Thistle Picture Dj^bts
Discussed by Cotuicil
Student :Comy:li held * 'a; ;. sh< 
meeting last-TueBdiy evening, Noveinbcr 30. . Clarehce U.dd. preeeijted:a.llst Qf;moro.than M.qrgaiiizatJons whlch stili owe n)f>noy to. the Thistle for pictures.ip,.last yekr*s book. . Sincp the. Tblstle ha^' ^utr 6l.and.lng dnbts amouQtIpg_t|);.89m^. J200, Lhe.Council, <it the suggestion 
of the Biidgof. Committee, deemed; it necessary, to attempt Collection of tliis; money 9vrtng^jtp.'.'^a7.Th|S; tle^aboiit. |70O_.' > A. motjp^ tpr'tha. efff.ct that the Council ipalte"np.
effort'to . collect';.this' \money, fit1 cirrted. lln^dJUori, .th^ ^^nl ell. approved a./1 recotpme^dfttion that-.in. futuro. tl)o Thistle ue-a 
sUn<ir^ fprm'.to be>afgnedhy.thj 
TO1**^11 ASB PiSi'-Vfi.
potential' power . but nevertheless the environment , that , deter.oilnen^to wlmt, eitent these potential powers nre nltlmateiy developedand It Is always .the finlshed product that - counts, not the raw material." .And furthermore/; he went one i say. every act performed by. human being, .every thought poa> sessbd by a human , being Is tux acquired or a learned act .or ide^* Dr. Schoan made an address be* re the Art Teachers' Association on November 90th, on An Objeo for Art Education!'' The samo 
day he spoke on..'AIntelJgenco and fatelRgonce .T^eB'-Mn&r^-fbe fao------ ot ShadyBlde Academy. - He Isediting a book on the affocts ot Music for. the International Library' of Science, Psychology and Phlloaophy which will be publlBhed early next year.- Also, there is an article in the -December Issue of the MaBlcal Observer oh 'The Personality of the^Artisi. which he wrote.. - He^ is now giving a sories of five lectures on Principles of Art Editlon to art teachers ot Pittsburgh and the vicinity at the Carnegie Institute, at the request of the sVipeivisorot .the .Pltsburgb
C. I.T. BACH CHOIR
2ndAA udal M.adlCM
Concert Given In Asia Theater 
< At 8:15 P.M.
ing iogram
:Bacftr. Tiires-ChoTOJs from "The Christmas Oratorio:"
(a) Break forth, O beauteous Heavenly Light,(b) 'Within yon gioomy mangotlies.'! -. .(c) With all Thy. hosts, O Lord,
Tho Bach Cboli
In O, Allegro vivace sssai: Virginia Brookhart. first violin; Mary Ellon Thurston.. second violin;Elia
m.Bach, Cantata, Sheba. the Bach Choir; S'ololste, Atian V. Norn; tenor; Richard von Ende, barltom Matthew Frey at the piano, Alired H. Johnson at the organ.
At this time. last year the Bi Choir gave parts I. and II. of i giant Christmas OrAtorlo, tn Caruegie .Muelo ball,. Jf V O'Brien conducting, A .chonje G5. with a ej-piphpny-prchestrft:60 ' iecia preflented thlB ' choril* work, from which three "Chorales' havo been ch06en for tonight' performance in the theafor.The entire Christmas Oratorio
leheini two 3; Beth i Bachby tinCliolr of that city. In sevep pai Its' enllre rendition lakes' a d 
with a short Intermieibn' betwi the parts. The Chorales selected for . toulght's . performance among the lovllest. of the whole Oratorio,There will be-no Admtssli tickets required forrtlie conce Ight1' .
Letters Show Success 
. Of Coal Conference
Professo:
Baker hav< ber .of letti tended . the Coal pressing thelc gratificati!
Sly and President celved .a large i :rom persons wh<
 -tbs.
 ilr. Jewett.ls how.eiigage.fn - ,.T Jng tlie proceedl'ngs, !^liji\voi!jiBe' lt la. expected - Wl11 ready for mailing early, in January.. Already, nujre than SOO coplta ha' dered. The .United - States .Steel Corporation. has'. :requesbed sixty copies and. : one of - the coal - companies wants'flfty. . .Dr. Edwln .B/ . Slosaon, Direct of Science Service, prtes the f< lowlng; VPre8ldent Baker certainly 
goi^og^ther an^all-etia-^T^'tVbfcpal o*i)ertSveuct never-,before been; - assembled' be? fOTp/in'Wny'. part;,pf. the world. : In addJt!pn^ tp the \serection - of - leajding'authoriUes on cpaL and.the.ad; inlnMe . 'lof^l ; arrangejuentsi. thu succeBrofthef^nf^rancew dtie, In nry.:oi^nrh^ tO:;the fact.,that it WM.-heid JuBt^at th'e!.criUul,.t}mo w;henVthel publi iii; ready; awa|uusd to t^e Importanceof 
nev..melbod8 of treating aw|L(in4
About a thousand copies ot th^ Student ^Directory were sold I&st Tuosdoy, but there are sUU -some two' thousand copies to go on sale today, to fill a popular demand. Directory contains tho names' local' addresses, home ad* dtesses. -yoar In school, and courses ot every man and woman student in the day courses. A complete Ust of dU - fraternity bouses, together with their members, Is given also. This Is a greAt help to CreBh* in In the rushing season, as.they will be able to soe Just who belongs' to  certain fraiomity.nmenta . onthe - directory,- its sale on last Tuesday have been' very favotable. People like the book, and this second Issue should hero no trouble' is being disposed of...
i. F.C. Conference 
Held in New York
Discuss Deferred Rushing, 
Lehigh Plan Success
Deferred rushing and: co-operative buying were the principal topics dlBcused at tho Interfratop1 nity Conference held. In Now York, Friday and Saturday,-' November 26-27.
Lehigh University has a' very effective deferred rushing system, which la approved by the entire student body of that 'institution. The first week of school'la token 
up by an orientation week for the freshmeu. Following 'this period 1i r ItMlay rushing period. At the end of; the rushing period eaoh freshman receives his'"bids. {'He keeps the bid" which he desires. And turna th'rematador oyer to a neutral1 party. . The; neutral party In this pasis-tbe Y. M, C. A;;L-'; hlgh'laa-nro'dorinltorl;'';whltliff}-' counts largely for having  rushing at sucli'an'early'period.
Swarlhmore uaes the same.system aa Leblgii; .except that.their pledging is .deferred Until after Thanksgiving. Iceland Stanford University aa well as Michigan are listng deferred rushing.
Deferred. rushing gives the fraternities as well as the freshmen an opportunity to find the character and status pf "the parties. concerned. Most schools object to deferred rushing because of lack, of, dormitories for freshmen.Co-operative buying Is very cessfal in the University of gon. A profit 'was!, actually mde' In-contioction with having a buyei 
receiving a salary of (6,000.Borne interesting statementi made'(by the speakers embody the following: . Dr. Willtyn Mather i. President ot George WashThe annual Junior Prom, queen >t the social season Jor the third yenr-men. haa taken on a' very mate'rlal aspoct within the. past few days with the announcement of the preliminary ticket, sale for. Docent? ber 15. Mark Seibert, In charge of general tioket sales, has received tho appointments of th: several class committees to handle.tho distribution In the. three colleges and all arrangements have been complqtjt. .
' The first of the tickets to bo Bold will consist of very.nottceablo red 
tugs, the. coBt nt whlcli wiil be $1.60.iater date, this tag and a second fee will be. exchanged for another subscription symbol..' In this way the assessment Is. divided and is consequently easier for the. majority,of men to meet .Th thrp class tiaket sales.comittees were appointed by ibelr respective sJ.UBlorpresldents. In Arts School, Don.-McClure heads the; committee, the prsonuel. of .which 
has not been made.'public. aa<yet. In Industries,. J. B, - Cox, 1r the ohakinn/ and .hlaassistants ;- are
Brookes. Dou Callen has appointed Continued on Pnge Three) -.. .
iogton Uniirsltyi fraternity lonsldei.the
DR. S. G0LDENS0N TO 
SPEAK AT CHAPEL
avenue, will be .the speaker at the chape) exercises to be held Thursday, December 9. . In addiuon, 
Misses I. Waldron and Imelda M. Rlnkenberger will .favor us with a violin duet Dr. S. Goldeneon's topic has not. been announced as yet,- but: indications pre' such that It will bethe best srer delivered onthe occasion, since he-is reputed to be. the best speaker, ever to appear at chapel.
The program is 'better .than any 
of those, previqusly presented. It is'hoped that the sttidonts will inaugurate their chapel .going ; this Dr; S.
Annual Christmas Puppet 
Due, Just Before ^ Vacation
In two weeka' .the ChrlatniM number of.the ?uppet wili be out; The coyer is. by. far the ;.best iand cleverest of any' Puppe| tbls'. yec This issue will be fiiil :of holldi jokes and siprles and. will be -just as .amusing, or :thdri...so Ujan 'the preceding.numbers..-; v v..!;. * The readers;, of, :, the. ; -By The 
,Way> s depa^tpjBijt rrwiii. b/ glad to' iienr "th&t';IC will appeaf : as :per: Usual with some very .^excellent little., writeups. .roni':capibua: life. The; third iilustratipnr'pf( "Tense Moments , ^n tlio Uves sof' Great. 
Ajnerlcana1' will appear-: alBp.. .Another ^tLragtlon-In the n^it 
Issue of He Putppiet wlji be tlie annpun$ement.otibe>.l^'tIoayt6t^>staff.' Everybody wHI no doubt beglad lo'hepr. piQievTeenlta: 
; Thle.iisue.wfll-pp^taln fle ,cw... the .same M Ua ^rwcedlnx.is1 tarUB' 1
Goal rcrssed Gut Twice in 
Most' Streuuous Campaign 
Ever Faced by a Plaid Team !
PROM TICKET SALE 
STARTS NEXT MON.
Class Sales Committees 
To Canvass Juniors 
For First Tags
TWO TEA DANCES
PASSING OF: THE THIRD 
FLOOR BACK PASSES
Performanoe On Thursday of 
This Week Last of 
Jerome Play.
After nine consecutive perfon. ances, beginning W'edneBday, Decetnber 1, at 8:16 p. m. and including a matinee at 8:BOFriday afternoon, -the curtain will be lowered on /'The Passing. Of The Third Floor Back,.by Jerome K. Jerome, on Thursday, .December 6! ' This play under :the direction ofi Frank McEntee, assistant to;Theodors. Viehman. is a llttle different from the general run of plays that have been presented in the Little Theater, and ia lauded in both technique and context. The portrayal of the highly spiritual-quality of the  strarigor, who,- with Chrlst-llke underatandlng and gentleness, awakens 'the more beautl(Contlnuad on. Page Three.)
iStatistlcsfor the mid-year Freshmen grades' show that the class of . 1930 h(Lve a higher standing than that of. previous . years. A comparison of thls' year'a Freshman, class with that of last shows the following:.1925-26: 274 Freshmen carrieda total pf 16,2?5 Unus, easing i total of 42,660 quality points. Rati 2.001.': .1926-27 : 26B Freshmen carrieda .total of 16,961% Units,! earning a total of 62,069i<^ quality points. RaUo3.262.
The irregular Freshmen are. not included Ip-this,report. .Dr. Ihrig, Dean ot.Freshmen stated that lt! was. too early t<i 
have any definite, knowledge as the cause of the Increased ratingugh. it Is. highly .probable, that new. fraternity .rushing-, ruls playing ^n .important. part F^ideterred rushing.
. UNlVCHSiTlES
spclatlpn ;, of ,. .Urban Uni^eraitis het a conferance .at. Bro^n. Unjyeralty, -yiii'., .RH^^.,(ifiisd Topics, rlatiye^ .tp! higher -.duc-'on . In thq'- cjt...........................^omliiefoui...........r. Ihrig vas ^Bgip'q.;n^ re'p..: 
rsentativ', -.V'-i.V !-s. The AsRocldtlou elected Dr/ pakcr as thelr, prsident ! fpr. th com-! incV l ^ to*', lipid! '-'tiiie'1927 copfruce pLt'.;kC-i^^e,'. ^ 
.vepber-;il>;t9'.!l?,lnclue^^! : This.v'orgniz^ilon la ' composed f .coleies' nd .uifersltles ^pni urlan commupfti5 .; ..Its^purpose Is .to :itudv the prohloms pef u\I*rM8W"
PAST SEASON^ 
PEAK OF SKIB 
GRID HISTORY
LOSE TO W.&J, N.Y,a
Now BecogUod CA Tri-State 
Title Hoidors, Despite 
l>oss To Waah-Jeff.
Now that tho echosB of the pi* dcmpnium raisod after the Notre Dame gome pxo beginning to grow (dint, it comes Ume (or the scrlbos:: pick "ALL" teams and to write, season reviews. '
this case it /s to be a review - oK-Carnegie's greatest toam, neknowledged  locally oe Tri-Sthte ; champions, and. acclaimed jatlon*; aly '6s one of tho greatest outfits .; which has ever playetl.football;'- And with good ^reason, , tor .this > of - red-jeralod-ibearcata, wba sevon of thelr' gajues, having tholr' 
goal line crossed but twice In tha process; .-.-V ; g
Tho initial, start on. tho:'season L aBWade'vH.thoponlng.ottrBiiai anp an September..6,' at.'which ilmo Wiiily Arrived and ;etarted.to . whip tho. boy.s .into shape,-and to build. up. tbe enduraaee '.t^at .was' to etoind them ia, such ! good :stead In 'tt\e season.About! 30 var* slty tneni and 30 plebo^ were presatoamp, . and when school opened, . the .QtartUue. discovery ' 
was made tbat! for the first time in the. historyof tho school,', every varolty caudidato was ullglplo, a^d ' 
but one plebe bad (hllod to be admitted to sohcol.. :
The first; gome, with Thiol, waa 
ployed oh .October,!, t at, Forbes Field; and-rpsulted in a .piald vlp.' : tory, 42 to'O.' This ;was the firBt 'arsity game fbr Harpstor, Letzeler. NleUin.er .'and..' Etngiish;. but if ter; a scoreloss first. quaTt6rivt^e oam.:.began to fiinptlon-' on; ' all (lovon niid once agaln a goodiittle enro. -was. beaten - by a' good1 big
ecUsied ^djion,' ip to 0,ithe sscond ., tm pleylng thelatter half of the' 
contest'." 'iv'1 And then carn -the 'trp to Johns* town for -the W. & J. game. The teain left Pittsburgh. on EYiday after'aon,' the l^t^ind.was quarter! ed '&%  jennratown for the.'tight, 1 On' tb .nit day, before a big. crowd 'of. Parllaans of both tean(a.' who had taken the; day. off tp,sbe the game, history, repepted itself, ' and. the Sklbos: lost, .to!r: a. tean\ .wftlph theyy-had'. completely loutplyiji. by a l7 tp T. ?ore, ;..it waa -. here that Bill Amoa of .the Preel* ^ents.m^do his -big.'bld. of the-sea-.! :son-for 'AU "American rating by scoring two touchdowns against, tie Tartans, the onlyjpnes permitted by the.Plaid;during the entire ' seaaon^A' field goal by; Klfl^mdn ; completed the'scoring-of the Red and Black. The Carnegib toycii. 
down came ns the termination of ; adrive down1 the field' in' the opening n\lnutes of. play. Several other opportuniUes to score cihe ;. to the Tartans, but ttie polnta djd. not thatoTllle.- John; Eugiisb was h.urt'-in the'first half of this game, : and was out of-competition for sic Weeks. 
The Pitt game.regarded then as . the hlgh ep.pt.'qf the season, came ' pn October 23. Tlie .teatn werit; i . to aocluflion lit the 'mciuntstn9;i\ear j (Continued, op Pag Three.) - . ;
Drama Conference Will be 
At Yale University This Yr.
Doctor Balter Ia Chairman of 
the Committee LRE Obrg. :
t Plans for ' the vsondannual.!:. Conference on Drama which, will , be held at Yaia, Cfpiyerslty this year. are^pW-.belng diactiBaed by/ the varioue commUtees jn charge of the ' prrangementa.';;.!.Dr. : Baker, ;i Chairman.' of it!h..;.<^mle.Vlk:.\ charge, .called a speclfil itneeting^inv!Naw York Clty1 for thia ;wee)^ .for ::. the'.discussion of ,dqtAll.; . : Tl^ yeex^ ; : .tho conferonce wiU 'bo' held some; time in February; -in-conjanctlp'n ; !wlth.the.opening of th' nw Little!' ' 
Theater at Yale. / j Last year the first.lcpnferne of ;'-, 
this kind was. calle^v.by'i^fTBf!;> atCarnegle,: 1a:.the!b9^.t'tiat' many ! 
of .the problenifi pt College drama and'LlLtle; Th'eter:,might ;,lwreme' ; 
died,. Th g^atya^utit^of^e'nthv^ sfiistii'. wbfchr|his' .tl^ 'arpusd^ . - ,
Is respon ebl '.'fpry !p. cedent? be* finBealabllVhed.i-Nliiet^^eilleB'an-40,^ttle^^MterVgfoupsfc ^!. . ;from, tiiover'.the^qniryr.ss^ .bled'here apdi-tl\a|riproMemB were.v .
disiodvb^'^pritla,^^^^ !;over the worW '' " :]: ThlrasBjmbVge.'.^^.ftr^e^^v - pn ofthTat! slgniilMnt evenU^y - '
In the: -hlitorypf:-,0ie 'Amertpanv; ; . .
.Th^ter'.';;-It'semad tcj'.-wpld' Uigwer
college* dramatists : end: :prod^sn^. '. and :t^e : "ider1' was^annoUnped-aL

---------------------------------------------------

.DocDtr 
BDalteI C himIn
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
The Oakland Bank 
Capital t-;$300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over : $5,000,000,00
 LEAHN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRA1Q AND FORaEQ STS. 
Beginners -Monday and.Fri.day Evenings. Advanced, Thursday --.and Saturi ay.
SAINT MARY'S CHURCH
Episcopal
MoKee. Place Oakland
Sunday Servlsee:. . .
-7:46'XM.Law Maas/  11:0 A. M.Sung .-Magi - 4:30 P. M.Evensong. and 'Benediction of.the Blessed Bacrament.
 Confe'Blons beard between ; the houra .of 4 P. M. and 6. P. M. Saturdays.
llfouFacetlie Business World
When your school life is over and you ;.fao^ the -bulnoes world,' you will.'appreciate the bank connections that you. form today. The expert* once In financial matters which a -bank' affords will strengthen . your  confidence end make more likely your
ttegardleaa .o^the size of
JoyceService
Christmas and Holidays 
At reasonable 'wist we supply the home table and Holiday Festivities .with seasonable delicious Goodies and Novel? ties."'/ r ' -I
Fruit Cake, Plum Pudding. 
Candles. Pies, Bread, Bis
cuits,- Pastries, Ice Creams 
and fcea.-^- (deafly made ofquality materials.
Motor delivery twice d^lly.
Llliotts
Two StoresHeadquarters 
Fot Practical 
Gift Things
their
Eye Glasses Specuoles Oxfords 'LorgnettesBinoculars
Microscope:Everything Optical Technical Books Engineers Supplies Architect Supplies Orawlng Materials :Camerab and-Supplies ' Movfe psmeras.and - ^roje'ctora Film-Developing Artist*'-.:Material' <,Art Casete.Leesont Fi
ALUMNI P
CLAN NEWS
CLEVELAND CLAN
TJiirty-flre, members of tie Cfeveland Clan sat down to dinner last qyenlng at the University Club 
with Graduate. Manager 'Buddy" Overend, Football Captain It E. 
Yoder, and Caplnin-Eleci Anderson id. Melzlner as.suegts. The eppearance oC the football boya who made such a wonderful showing against Notre Dame last Saturday the Cleveland Clan and every man ;present felt
i clan le
itaprlvilege to shake their hondi r In the history of Tech football boa. a .team fought with'eudi lurage and.determination as did e team last .Saturday; so It was more then a -pleasure to see the boys and bear<a word Grom them about the victory. All credit was 
given to,-,Coach-.Stiffen for hla ability to inspire the team to itB great*
Wink' Dowling, oaptain of the' football team of .1908; Curley" Lauer, -captain of the football team of 1916 -were also preBont and-'congratulated .the members of the 1926 team os iheir victory. A.word of-commendation was also bad from J. C. Hobbs, 1910 member or the Tech School commltee. and Bill Schmucker who played halfbackio 1911 and 1912.Walter Damon, design! acted as cheerleader. .The -University Club ringing with a Short Speller and Yea Tech." The Clan has planned a smoker for the middle of 
January at which time football picurea will be shown and tho allicholastlc football team ot tho city Invited as its gueBts. Everybody keep in mind .the party for the middle of January.The election of officers was held id -reBuUed in the. re-election of H.\J: McCorkle, Science *11, president; A1 May, Science 21, vice president; G. A. Ebellng, Arts, seer atery-treasurer.
ALL CLANS The Harrisburg Clan Is having a ChrlBtmaa party this year to which all the. students attending Carnegie from the Harrisburg district are invied. Thts Is a flnetlme to plan a party. The stadents will he glad to get acquainted with the alumni and it Is a good opportunity for the alumni to get In closer touch with the affaire at school 
qualnted with the "future alumni;''The Alumni office will bo glad to send you lists of tho etud< in your district, .It. you will lei us know what towns you want ineluded;
Harrisburg has had Christmas parties for the last two or .three yean and it seems they ore .to become a part of the Clan's regular acbeSuIe. Erie, Buffalo, and .Cleveland also planned something last year. What about this Chrlatmaa vacation? The 
Christmas recess is from December-20 to January 3.
The Cleveland Woi 10 of tie fewwomen's clans among our various groups of alumnl.but it hasbeen one of the ujobI 9 during the .past few years, a meetings, have beenheld thus hie year.^and'.each one' Jiasbrought foijfi 'a .good attendance. And'a groat deal of-Interest in. the 
dan's activities.The .third meeting of tho year as held Saturday, November 0, t-tbe home of Dorothy HariowA delightful luncheon was served by the hostess. Mo.Btof -the. alterwas'given over to working on the plans for the completion of the icond "scholarship fund.' This Is In continuation, of the good work 
begun'several years ago; It may be recalled.tbot the dan awardeda iholarship to a' Cleveland jglrlfor 
us year-1926-26, and It 1i hoped the .same may be done.lu the near future for some -other Cleveland 
girl.) following members were at at' th|g meeting: CatherI. .Allan, Dorothy Draa, Ellen Elnm&n, Dorothy Harlow, Gretchen 
lei, Charlotte Jackson, Betty C. Kofold, Maude Halner Montgomery, 
IrglDia Pope,- and Jolla Slanllcind. The Septembor meeting was held .'the 'home.-i.of Eleanor,.Clark Speaker. The  chief business at meeting was tbe election of re. The results of tbe elecwere as follows: Presldont, Maude H. Montgomery, 2289 Bellefield Ave., Cleveland Heights; vice - president, Mrs. Nellie B. Sparks, 2060 Wascana . avenue, 
Lakewood, O;  secretary, Miss Evelyn GlesBen, 1408 Wost B4th St.; treasurer. Miss Catherine M. Allan, 622 East 124th-St.The October meeting was more of a social meeting. It waB held at the home of Dorothy Dra2, yvho entertained with a bridge and t In addition to the members-of-1 Cleveland WomensClan, Ihe.wl' of all Carnegie men in Cleveland were iavited. The affair proved very successful.Although the attendance haB been good at all-the meetings, there is still room for improvement. If there are .any Carnegie Alumni women In -Cleveland who already members .of the clan, , they 
should get into touch with the .officers Immediately..
HARRISBURGIn accordance with custom, during the Christmas recess, members of - the Harrisburg -Carnegie 'Clan will give a Christmas affair Monday, December 27, to which all. students from .Harrisburg will 
lvited. Tho affair this year will take the form of a. dlnnerdance at Gravers, North Second 
t, Harrisburg, for jvhJch the assessment will be $3.50 per couple$6.60 pi for alumni.
This dlnner-dance will be an e: illent opportunity not only t< the old grads to gat together l
learn the recent campus dirt" . In case any students shall T some mistake, ^ecel'
Harldburg, Pa,
inviTheatre. Tips
SCHENLEYPhotoplay productions of engrossing Interest and music ot the best grace the program of the SchenIcy . theater, Forljea street, Oak
land, district throughout this week. Monday and Tuesday, December and 7,- brings "The Marriage Clause, all-star drama. On Wed-, nesday and Thursday, December 3 and 9, the feature, attraction will be the intensely human aind' gripping ly interesting comedy-drnma, The Old Soak. Friday aud Saturday, December 20 nd. 12,. wHI witness tho presentation of tho Metro-Goidwyn massive production ot the West, "War Paint. A epe^ .clii feature on the stage throughout the week ore Earl and Harriett Newport and, their Club Marigold orchestra, an excellent musical attraction' with nine petformera.' Mo-, tlon'pictures of the Tech-j^otre Daine football gamd, in which Tech .came through so marvelously victorious, are also a feature throughoat this week. Next Monday and 
Tuesday. December 13 and 14. will .bring the' photoplay Risky Business, featuring 'Vera Reynolds.The Club Marigold orchestra comes to the *Schenlcy direct from 
a sensationalhit at the largest theaters la Chicago. They describe their organization as a Merry Mad Gang ofHappy Entertainers.'- The foundation or-tne act ls a wonderful orchestra, but there-are numerous other pbaseB including singing, and dancing that . are: efp6cted to please greatly. Harriett Neveyort, .who. is. pianist In thoorchcaLra. 
has.* voice of rare beauty which-is iplendld 'effeck in several
Cleveland Womens 
Gian Quite Active
Working oo PJans For 
Awarding Another 
Scholarship
OFFICERS ELECTED
hfO bggO
Sir. Thomas B, ilcLean, chief engineer of KMOX, and formerly faculty member at-C&megie, ls:becqmlng widely'known as a man of .wide el and experience in the radio I. Mr. McLea came ;to the United States from Scotland fourteen years ago end has been prominent in the development, of radio this country. :Heinstalled, among 
other stations, WCAE, the -Pittsburgh Press station, one of the ploneermdio stations ia America. .In' SL .Louis, Ur. McLean lnstnllod station KMOX 'in the record, time of fourteen days, the usual period of such a Job being three months. He knows eVery department of radio -Just,.as thoroughly adthe' mechanical end, having at .different times directed -the programs, publicity id mlsce.Uanoous .activities ot me of the country's: most ini' portant stations..,
Recognition from Broadway is been woo by Norman (Nick) Hoeffer, former Richmond bpy, rho graduated Crom Morion High pchool in' Richmond in 1922, and 
who Jeter .went to Carnegie Tech. fiicit has played in Btock,' vaude^ ville and threo New York producilnce leaving Richmond.- He has appeared in The Goose Hangs High, and-the Poor Nut and in September was appearing in Just
Hoeffer is the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
C. K Hoeffer, NSw Paris pike. Ho b known as Norman Foster on the 
jtage,. Robert Reud, in hlBi "Round. the-Town column In the Ne.w York Telegram, has;the.following to say
Thursday, Lloyd Hugnes and Mary Astor In the most wonderful pic; lure of^thetr career, It la Forever After: starting with those glorloue high school days and ending up lit France with the World War. Fri* .day and Saturday 'Corinne Grlitb ,and. Tom Moore in "Syncopating Sue the great comedy hit of th< year, see Sue u the pmno poundei and Tom as the trap player. Mon day and Tuesday Richard Dix ii "The Quarterback the. greatest
ting Wednesday with Rex 1 gram's masterpiece "The Foi Horsemen, starring the <late R dolph Valentino. By far the gres est picture ever made. Frida Dorothy Gish in her first Brills made picture -"London.1 See Dorotby rise from the very deptlii the -LimehouBe to the exclusive Mayfair, but docs Bhe find happiness? Saturday, Raymond Griffith, you remember that fiinny little man wllh the alik hat, well be sure and see his latest You'd Be Surprised. Monday and Tuesday, the orchid of the screen, Corinne Griffith in "'Syncopating Sue" with Tom Moore supporting her, both have excellent parts and cat thornout to perfection. ., Selected comedies and neevents With each change ot f<
FRATERNITIES
Vcacia, fi07 Millvnle avenue, Schen ley 5463.Alpha Sigma Phi, 6C01 Wilkins avenue, Ha^el 9966.Alpha Tau Omega, 435 N. Neville. Beta Sigma Alio, 5437 Aylesboro avenue, Hazel 9310.Beta Theta Pi. 6649 'Forbes streot, ': -Kazel 3320. . .
Delta Mu, 1655' &hOdy avenne, Hazel 9345.
Delta Phi Delta, 5031 Bayard streot. Sctenjey 6691. .)elta Tau Dvlta':-930 Clvde -i 
Schenley 6403. - 1 '-)elta Upsllon. 60^t> Forbes street - Bchenley 9082.Kappa Sigma,. 624 Clyde Schenley 6662.Kappa Sigma Rho. 444 Amberson 
Schenley 9127. .PhiKappa, 4732.-.-Center avenue, Schentey 643. > rni Sigma Kappa. 1406 Wfghtman street, Hmel a<64.PI Kappa-^Ipha, 4807. Banm fccuievard.achenlev-.67i6.':-.- 
6igma :Alpha Epllon, 43l5 Forbes Schenloy. 8J11.Elgma. Phi - Ispitilon, - 492B ' Forbes street, 8chenleyv9122.
Sigma Nu.  ttJl' i'orbcs street, (fayflQwervJ|M -Theta  vi
oboiNlcl
Thaith9 actingas its 'chance', in Id of Broadway 
:luslvely cited just >ow, at the Henry Miller, . In the as? of a youngster who calls himlolf Norman Foster. From .a .bit in The Poor Nut, through which he grinned his way last Beason, 'he has stepped Into a. three-act role Marjorie Rdmbeau's Just Life, and acquitted himself eo. neatly as center the attention of. other oagerc on his work. Nineteen. 
And with another, and still bigger part already proffered him for a fu.lure; .play.. All thiswithout 'the sorcalled 'puli' and drag which 
cynics claim essential .to a Broad
way eucce6B. Which, perhaps, again proves your old assertion that talent, when brought Into contact with .opportunity, usually Ignites.
Miss Hazel McKee has been ap pointed .assistant buyer of umbrellas at the Bamberger and C$tQpanys Newark store. Miss McKee, previous to her present appointment was In charge, of the .college graduate division of Secret Science at Margaret. Morrison Carnegie College.
That the recent feats of the Car
negie football, team. aro. being appredated In local circles aB ^ell as other placeni is sufficiently attested by the many banqaetfl to which either; all-or Beveral members of the'team hare. been iavited. The coaching staff and graduate manaofflc 'jo coine ln-fpr their 
share of the. honors..
Last Monday night, November i, tbe Cleveland Clan held a meeting . end. dinner,, to.which. IJudjjy snd, Lloyd Yodr. Purl Andermd Saul'Melzlnor were invited'as honor guests.., It was held in the University club, wth about 
thirty-five in attendance. Each of the.:four honor ' guests; gave a ch, as well; as J. C. Hobbs, a' 
member' of. the - school - committee-. Dowling - and Lauer, two -former, football captains, .were also present'. ...
Yoder and Anderson were also guests at tbe football banquet held Schenley High school, which n the city, championship, and 
this Thursday Yoder will be the of South Hills High school, >r up for.the city championship. It was intimated at the high hol that Rob Waddell will also 
a Invited to this banquet.
On Wednesday, December 6, the dungstown clan win bold a nioetig end dinner which will be atmded by Buddy Overend, and jveral .members 0f the team may 
poasJbly accompany him.
Last Saturday night the annual football banquet given by Frank Lanahan, a member of the Athletic Council, was held at the Charllers -Heights Country Club, and proved sat success, as they always in the past The affair was held in the form of a dinner dance rear, and met with the great* pproval of^all who attended. Those present, included the team and tiieir friends, members of th< 
coaching staff, and Mr. Lanabans
FACULTY BRIEFS
Director Connelley ot the Dept ment of Industrial Relations talked before the publicity organization of the manufacturera and salesmen of sanitary goods in Chicago, NovemDirector Mott attended a meeting in Washington, November 1>, of the Section of DeanB aud Administrative Officers of the Soclcty. for the Promotion of Engineering Education.
M.. -Augustin' Frigon, Directeur General de rBnslgnmnt technique dans la Province de 'Juebec et Directeur ds tudes a l'Ecole PolyTechnology November 30:
The annual meeting of the Am) in Association for the Advanci ment of Science will be held in
.Professor Payne spoke on Tho Trend of the Drama'. at a lunehi meeting1 ot the drama department of the Congress of Clubs, Novem ber 17. 1'
Miss Rachel Stone, who had hei appendix removed at the Homeo pathic Hospital fiov.wber... 13, !l< convalescing favorably.  ......Professor Sumner B. Ely, who has served as secretary of the C6al Conference spoke'feefore :the Hungry Club In the Fort Pittv Hotel, November 22, on 'The New Coal Age.
Professor Wallace addressed tho students, of the S'c&enley High School,, November 23, op: "AeUgg-.''Mr. Orbin and Mrs. Sheers tended the seventh annual m 
lug of the Association of Uni.... slty and College Bualoees Officers of the Eastern States, which held atPrinceton tlnlversity November rt "
Miss Lucia R. Briggs, president 
of Mllwaukee-Downer College, was the guest of Director Sreed and Dean Green on Thursday, November. 18, andinspected, the equip
ment - of the Margaret -'Morrlsoi' Carnegie College. President Brlggi was accompanied br a group of 
local alumnae of Mllwnukee-Downer College. .. Dr. Schoen ^ address be
fore the Art Teachers Association November 20 on An Objective for Art Education. The same day^he stoke .on -Intelligence and Intelligence .Testa before the facultv of Shady Side .Academy: On November: 24,- Dr. Schoen debated with Dr. . RoBwell Johnson at the' First Unlurjan Church. The subject was . Resolved; That EnvironmentIs More Important than Heredltv-.Jn Forming Human Characteristics " He will have, an article in the Deceinber luue -of the Musical Observer on The peraonaUty of te Aj*Jjt/ and J ^iria4r. a'.^^ee. ot five Lectors* on"PrindplOe bt An Education tn art teachej* PittjMembers ot Team 
Feted at Banquets
Coaching Staff ond Graduate Manager Also Giv
en Honors
C.OF C. BANQUET SAT.
party.
This Saturday the 1 the guests of the printI be acli>f the Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce. at a banquet in tbe William Penn Hotel.. The affair will be no small honor to the teaim, as some ot.-the countrys leading men have 
been invited to attend. A. W. Mellon and James J. Davis have bees invited, and efforts are being made to have Mayor Jimmy Walker of New York present. Walker, is  great follower ot sports, and hli 
presence would insure-the succesi of the banquet. This banquet wil 
demonstrate the city's appreciation of the atelier work done by th< 
team this year. The members of the team are' looking -forward the-testimonial with a great deal of anticipation.In addition to these; clans are having affairs' to which members of tbe team have been will be Invited; some of the hoi town folks of the members of the team are planning affaire for thi heroes, and many high school events are featuring members of tbe tee.m. Our boys bid fair 
become lions in the social world aa well as on .the grldli
burgh and the.vlclolty at the Carnegie Institute.A son was born to Mr. and Mre. James M. Graham, Jr., November 19. Mrs. Graham was formerly Dean of Women at Carnegie.Dr. Esther L. Blair spoke oi 
."Posture before the Home Ec< noznlcs Club of the Peahody High school, November 19.
Miss Frances King is ill In Baltimore, where she went to spend the Thanksgiving vacation.Dr. Watson, president of the 
Christian pnivorsity at Cairo, Egypt, spoke on .Egypt before the students taldng Mies Demarests History of Civilization'' courses in the Theater, Tuesday morning.
PTOfesaor Ely will attend the annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Englneei New York December 6-9.- Dr. Baker 6poke before,'the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Assembly Tuesday morning, and at the First Baptist Church Wednesday evening. He will attend a . meeting in New York next week of the Committee on the Drama Conference which will be held at Yale early'in Feb ruary, and will be present luncheon given next Tuesday at McCreery'a by the Harvard Club, In honor of Professor Tauslg, the 
distinguished H^arvard economistA dinner meeting of the Metallurgical Advisory Board yrtll be. bold at tbe Carnegie Inn on ThursTho Dally Cardinal, atudent publication of the University ot 'WlVeonelnv has appeared  upon the campus. with  an editorial bitterly 
denouncing  the . -Ruinating Dry I^wa.*'
Prohibition has accomplished
time respetc for law. itstates.
Reformers, who claim that prohibition has been agreat eucccss hiding, their, heads in the sand llke-an ostrlch.r. Glenn Fra.k, president of the university, dedlnedto defend  or Attack  the -:WTltor -of the editorial. whose. name -is withheld. >:*-:'
: "I have no fcrmal' comment^to ipake,'; he *ald:..;.Tbe. Daily Cardinal Is edlud by Individuals whoha-veva,right tir^preii their own.
>ns; : Whether tlieaeNopinleas are cQrrect, ! onnot
SOCIETY NEWS ]
Since theend^of the-year lsnear at hand,'the AJOmni .editorB belieYe 
alumni will be interested in a resnme of engagements and marriages of alumni-durlng the poat year.* Aonouncezhent was made is June 
of this year of tho engagement of Miss Verne.M. Lapp,.dflUghter.oC 
Mr. and Mire. D. J. Idpp, of Homestead, to H, W. Schuette, son of Mr. and Mrs. iVederick Schuette 
of MunhalL Mr. S'chuette is a.Cajnegle-Tech man. The wedding was. 
planned for late July.Also in June, the engagement of Miss Emma Elizabeth Lagor, daughf Mr. and MrsP. W. Lager of PerrysvJlle avenue, Pitsburgb, to Charles Vincent Doherty, son of Mr. and Mrs. John J. Doherty of the Eaist End, wasmade, known bridge tea at the home of Miss .Lager. Mr. Doherty is a graduate of Carnegie Tech.,
te seema. to ,haye.'. been ,the falalmoiith thl6 year, as'u6uaL/ On Thursday, June 24, Mrs. Josephine Fast of,  Summerlea etroet, antunced the , marriage of. her daughter, Miss Nancy issfeelle Fast, 
and Donald Henderson-ltfllne of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Mies Fast was student in the Music department at Carnegie Jech, and although Mr. Milue did not graduate from Tech, he was active while in.school as .editor of the,'Student Directory.In May of this year, according to 
the'. Winona  Republican .Herald, Rev. and Mre. - H. J. Weln an-1 tounced .the "engagement of their daughter, thim 'Marie Weln, to Fred T. Travis, son. of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Travis of Lake .Minnetonka, Minn. Mr. Travis, alter graduating from a Minneapolis High school, completed his studies et Carnegie Tech. He le now connected with the Murphy-Travls Company, of Minneapolis.
Another wedding of a w^l known Carnegie alumnus was.anticipated In the Akron Ohlo' Journal on Sat', July 31, 1926, that of Miss Edna Ridge, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William F. Ridge, 90 Rose Boulevard, arid James Luther. Sewon of Dr. and Mrs. John Sewell, Titus, Alabama The wedding was planned to take place on Saturday night, August 14, <at 7 oclock, according '* to an announcement made, at'-a bridge,, tea  at Mias Ridge's -home.. Miss. Ridge Is a graduate of Carnegie Tech.
' The wedding - of Mies Carol B. Grannatt, daughter of Mr?. J Graanatt ot .Plainfield, N. J., 
Richard D. Sthmldt, eon of and ..Mrs. .Georgtf-ASchmidt, of Watchung, took place In June o this year in the Church of thi Transfiguration of New York, the Rev. Randolph Ray offldating. Mr. Schmidt graduated from Carnegie Tech in the class of 1924. Mr. am' 
Mrs. Schmidt have made the! home in Bound Brook.The marriage of Miss K. Salom Stamm, daughter of Mr. and Mrs C.'' M. Qtamm; of the'' Graadvlei plain, and Mr. WUllam Eaki.n, of WUklnsburg, look place in June, 1926, in the Millbridge Street Methodist Episcopal Church. Mrs. Eakln, before her . marriage, graduated 
from Margaret Morrison . Carnegie College,'and Mr. EeLkln Is alec Tech man. The couple are now living InSbedyslde.
Miss Martha E. Smith, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Smith of San Luis, California, anu Edward Guthrie Stoy'were married on the 17th or September In Chicago. Mr Stoy ..is' a graduate of Camegl Tech and Chicago University, and is a psychologist connected .with the Institute for Juvenile Research in Chicago.
rion Green Wilkinson, daughter of Mr. .and Mrs. JameB. A.. Wilkinson, of Murrysville, and Charles F. Maeon of Philadelphia, aon of Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Mason, of Pittsburgh. The ceremonywas per; formed at the home of the.brldos parents, Rev. Paul Lux officiating. Mr. Masn is a graduate of Tech. Mr. and' Mrs. Mason, aro living In Philadelphia.
Mr. Harold M. Culin and Miss Camilla Gordon -were married In J[une at the home ot the bride , in Pittsburgh. Mr. Culin U manager of the tire department of the Hagey H. Campbell agency in Pittsburgh. He.is a graduate of Carnegie Tech and before joining the Campbelit 
agency was a special hazard rat fijr the nderwrltera1 As&oclatii of the middle department.MissEmma Rankin : Prather,, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Chari Alten. Nlcoll. nd Mr. Nelson Haiston Poe were married at the - dale Methodist Church in Te Mo., on Wednesday, September 1. Tlie ceremony' vas performed by Dr. Albert Sydney Flannlgtin of Chicago, a uncle of the bride. ~ ring' service was used. . Folio the. wedding.. ceremony,. the bridal party motored to' Clover Cliff,' the country,home of Mr. and Mrs: Njcoll, and .left later In the week, for 
yreddlng trip to California. Mr. de was graduated, from Carnegie Tech in June of this year, and wae located during the Buinmcr in Marci, Kan., where he was associated th Charles. A. icol in the gas' 
business.
:cldd 'InDmiDtn
927 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Near Forbes 
Try eur Special Lunches40o Special Rates To Students
Waltor: Roll, madam?Madam: PtooJ. do^yon thinlr rm t 
circus pertormerTEx.- '
Fitzsimmons
Restaurant
120 OAELAMD AVE.
Special Meals and 
. . Ratee .to Students
Lets All. Go ToThe
TECH
BarW^hop
For Our H^iT Cuts 
CEAGAND 
FOBBES
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR
entitle you to a 60s dinner. 
THURSDAY EVENING.4i304MK) P. M. 
TRy0UR;36ciLUNCH 
Special ~ Pastries with Fra*ternlty lettere
SSsopaSs Tea Rosren
MOhp C0R0NA6 ARE . 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before the daye.cfCorpnaniowt college ten" by.' hand. Noweverything Is typewritten. Youll
other., makes, of portable combined. Come In end eee the latest. modeL It Is the last word In portable typowrltere., .Standard four-row keyboard, w/decarrlogc, ' twelve, yard . ribbonmore bln -maehlne features' than other (> rtable. PrieelnJy '
COMPANY 
120 FIFTH'AVENUE 
Atlahtle 0342 '
0H1B 
BSTUBliT
412 GOUTH CRAIG STREET
Try ur 
Regular Dinners 
40c and 50c
Hardware Paints Electrical' Supplies
OAKLAND HAIDWRE CO.
3605 FORBS STREET
Wttll #lli?lta
FOR YOUR NEXT
FORMAL AFFAIR
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
RAINCOATS FOR SfflIN AND WOMEN
Mens, $6.0QColor; Grey.
Womens, $6.60Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and red.Auffestnimer and Evans
6100 PfiNlf AVENTTE
STANLEY.-ROWl-AND-CLARK'eMANOR
 THE FOUR HORSEMEN 
OF THE APOCALYPSE 
Rodoiph Valentino
Friday December 10
^Loiiclbn^
nenotHr GSTU
Saturday. December 11
Raymond SrlEilth 
YOUD BE SURPHISEP
Monday and Tuesday 
December 13 and 14
Corinne Griffith 
SYNCOPATING SUE"
STRAMB
Wednesday and Thursday . 
December 8 and 9
Forever After
tfoyd Hughes 
Mary Astor
Corinne Griffith
SYNCOPATING
SUE
Deeemhet 13 and 14-
RICHARD niX
The 
Quarterback '
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
Schenley Theater
First Fleer and Balconyifie 
_ Meaanlne36o
Continuous 2 to-11 P. M. HARRY DAvis. General Manaflr Most Beautiful Neighborhood Theater In Pittsburgh..All Week Tech Notre-Dame Game in Films
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAYi DECEMBER 8 AND' 9'The .cr SoakFrom Don Marquis' popul^e.atage play with 
JEAN HERSHOLT, LOUISE FAZENDA, JUNE MARLO\VE,
_______WILLIAM V. MONG, GERTRUDE ASTOR
. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, DECEMBER' 10 AND.11 Way Paint
ADDED ATTRACTION ' ALL WEK
Earl and Harriett Newportv --r-w(th their----- 
:bp -\:.bg .:fOBh.'A Merry Mad Gang of Happy Entertainers.*
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, DECEMBER T3 AND 14 Risky Busineas 
VERA REYNOLDS, KENNETH THOMSON, ZASU PITTS AND ETHEL CLAYTON
We Have Learned That it is 
Better to Use
Kissel Skiles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions >
THREE. TATION8 
.107.Bread..Street.  ' ' M6 Hllapd ia0Q 
,ia#:*ewenlh'Street:-^ i-;.t:--|uieht;wssjSr?4-
r' "

---------------------------------------------------

TUI O*
KASEHAGEN WINS 
NOVICE RIFLE CUP
 The loowitf'lplckdp,-w'as wrlU'. by Jliainy Powers fto thB Cleveland Plain DealerBoys, .take' it Croni across-thB. lino U> Pennsylvania play a mean f^Lau""game.rery sincerely, those neighbors of ours , -----1 play a mean fooLbali game.We saw Pitt smack George Greene end his whlte-helmeted Penn biatera for a three-touchdown setback Thanhrigiving Day and then heard the repeated Impact of bone cracking bono as Carnegie Techs big red-sweatered . mountaineers smeared Notre Dame-tho following EaUrday la a game that was THE opeotof the year bemuse of Its crashing and undeniable one-Bidedness.All year we.halve been watching Big Ten football games. Thought Benny Friedman, Moon Baker, Marty. Knrow, Ed Hoes, Ales Klein, Ben Osterbaan and the rest , were jast about the nuts as far as this partlculare'ectlbnor-the'football world Is concerned; 'But burled over there In the Allegheny mountains, lacking a good press agent minus all the mils and trumperies ot the conference, minus (and perhaps It la a good thing) a duly appreciative audience ot ldollzers, there are football teams, big rangy, gawky, hard-boiled fellows who make Tanan of the Apes look Uko a "Y secretary.How come Carnegie ran up Buch a score on Notre Dame?Severer thousand Inquisitive football souls are asking that question today as the hysteria ot the Anny-Navy game pasBes and eyes shift aroond to contemplate the catastrophe that struck the national contendere..
Scores 181 Out of Possible 
200 to Cop Trophy of 
Major Taylor /
 Notre Dame Licked: Badly Physically. Welt-teH you why we' thinkCarnegie won.Those barrel chested boys with.hands as big as haii 'outfitmperlorweight and a football knowledge that was Inspired to; sep the astounded an '......................pletely flO their fe   play FHYS/> of this elqelSed patting of backs, gallant relelng-of-fallendesperation to sweep the astounded and cocky bond ot Irlahi  itely flit their feetThey play rough, tough football i * this eii - 'I junk at all. Maybe Its 'the atmosphere ot the rugged * the,tough and wiry t that turns up Its no
Ten thoi9 In Cleveland ai so familiar with.At the end of the final whistle over there in ForbeB Field each of
Ing a pair ot split. lips, or nursing a-'wrencbed f__They were battered and smashed rom gosMlne to goal line. Understand tirera was nothing dirty ab'out'that PenBlyvaula football. They just surprised the living daylights out of the Irish by the ' fury of their play. Notre Dame > 
tlons. .They have
 prominent gridirons.
irly kill each other off whi
Leo Kasehagen,- a freshman In engineering, won Carneglee open latch with the fine  score of 
90 points out of a possible 100. In kneeling, 91 points out of a. possi-, ble. 100 In standing,-total 181 points out of a possible 200. Kasebagen imes to Carnegie' from Central 
High School of Washington; D. C.. here be made an excellent re*
This - match w^s . open to all male students ot Carnegie, who tot previously shot on any Carnegie squad. There . was - a 
large' number of entrants and tho >mpetitlon waB-lndewd vory close.. Th object of this match was to brln: t all good'materialtn th :hooI, so that Major Taylor might look over some men that had not participated In the sport prevlousLjor Taylor offered a sliver to th winner, of this match, tbe cup will be. presented to Kasehagen at an assembly In the
The rifle team has been practlog every evening down In th aeement of Margaret . MorrsonJ id 1i rapidly' rounding - into iape. Carnegie Is a member of 
ie Intercollegiate ' Rifle. Associaon and finished up near tbe >p in the league lost year. The respects are Indeed very  bright that we will even beat last years
Them Irish Were Cocky and C Psychology played a big part In beating tho Irleh. To them it was juet another,football game. Even w two touchdowns behind lo the second quarter they ac could get'them back Whenever they 1
heres tbe first pranced on the field and. i mountaineers were worked  desperate. They dug tbelr f
i RE Ali football. They r smocked. Those btg stlonal pitch. They were In, gritted tbelr teeth and wham,
_____ . & coach play?When Jiggs Donohoe (incidentally this Irishman along with Me' --------- Wets really beat the South Be--*llaces end for one of the pretti; was sold or doae from the Ni
The'prettiest picture of llte game, was when Howard HarpQter, tall sophomore quarterback who  *>pasBlng department, kicked hta 4 goal.He stood all alone about IB yards back of center. The enow-was sweeping down In a thick curtain right Hto his face. VeTy calmly he took th hall while his sturdy line held like a wall of red paving brick. H dropped tbe ball skillfully. A faint plunk. And there went tbe pigskin sailing accurately in a high arc light lnU> the teeth of the
(Continued From Page One.) - W. Sherman, R. K. Follantfbee and Donald Putt to take charge of the sales in Science School..Contrary to previous practice, 
there will be only two Prom tea dances this year. With music of a high quality supplied -by leading orchestras .of the Pittsburgh district, these affairs will tend to' lighten, th hectic days following the Christmas vacation, and a numberof opportunities will he offered to better Insure one's "place In the a un for the Prom itself. A number of novel features have been promised for. the tea (lancoB and Alvin Brown, who la in charge of theso afternoon hops, has developed an interesting schedule. Also, Brown has promised that tho name of the orchestra for tho Junior Prom will be given out within seven .days.. The William Penn hotel-Is likewise being considered very -strongly fr the-event, though a
IND. RELATIONS DEPT.
'HAS EXTENSIVE  MAGAZINE. SERVICE
(Continued From Page One) npllshment which it may help 
to develop.Wisely handled,, under the proper ndltlons, tho employee magazine ia In numerous cases shown its >aslbllttles /as a channel ot Information between management id the labor force.- Through Its ges the dally routine of the particular business estnblishmeni
Through its use <ot personal Items id through Its aid In eucb group activities as thrift, health, and safehe employee magazine has
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Both new and old students should note that they can get unusual fountain pen service by. eall? Ing at ,tho branch ?t.ore of. Singer Pen and Gift Shop, No. 3941 Forbes street,.Schenley Apartment 
block,, or the-Main Store In Jenkins Arcade.- .
Tech Bakery
| 323 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
|  FRUITS AND PASTRIES 
I The Place for Good Things to
BUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SUTH CRAIG' STREET~)ellvei.............BAKI lyfloi
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue : Sunday. 11 A. M. and 8 P. M.' Wednesday, 8 P. M. '. Sunday School, 11 A. M.
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLAC FOR" . 
SNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
4618J/2 FORBES STREET Near Cralfl
STUDENT SUPPLISSI iV O.M.STAUFT
l cUyFd BWb yckF.n d.d''
 OAKLAND s"
*eted, e
(Continued From Page One) ful. phases of the charactcrs whom >mes in contact in the English boarding house. Is. a feat which few modern novellets have abfe to furnish as well as Jerome,- the author.) whole action of tho play Is unfolded with unusual defines! despite the fact that tiie technique In the unfolding Is a little obvious;
thisir, hoi>r, ia i* the
pensatcd for by the beautiful language and .the genuine feeling s the whole ai
.Continued From Page One) lented, and entirely suited t< .ke the leading part in the Atu Battle'show.- No more Information autd.'be obtained, as Pete was iff'again on'hia maddening pur 
suit.
It would eem, then, that any ha bles (female, as-above) who desire this most Important . post In thi Febniary., Revolution,. might appty. to Ryggsky, and attenipt to sooth such aa he hafl. left' of his frayed, ired. and otherwise torn nerves, final warning! -Any Arts.per: who .purposely, absents himself; i the Tea:Pight onThunday^m'ay:cons|der'Umselto iclBed; ..exiled,;-and horribly, dls: appointed In general. ' ' ' '
(Continued'^Tom Page'One) predated outside chemical circlet Power; one ofthe leading tjchi cal'journals of th United Stati edited by Fr$d R. Low, devotes fo pages In' Its' November isa to highly v ludatry> account'o t the Couference.
{ Dr: ! Baker ennounced that i ture plans have been. made .o questions decided at the Confer 
she..U-Th9;. f&ommUtee '.Is meeting; itra^uently. 'butsafl yot have arrived ',V*i;deflnlto tdaeti^on las t<* *1--
Themaries for the
Stdg. Knlg. Total
WANTED
Plebes to try out for Basketball Manager. One ot the  best activities In school. See Varelty Manager High or  * Freshman Manager Holloway  y afternoon In the Gym. |-
RUSHI^Q RULES
(Continued^ From Pagtf One.) sms of all kinds seem to hi&vi sen circulated by unecrupuloui fraternity men about tbelr rivale i it that certain fra charging exorbltan 
Initiation feesfrom three to - fiv< hundred dollars. Such-rumors ;arr fallais few, It efraternities on Carnegie's an Initiation tec of mi dollars.lore Violations Suspet 3 investigation commi
fraternitiesit ialto,-of lh<will be definitely discussed i next meeting or the inter*, fra lorn Ity council ' this Saturday lornlng.' It will be Interesting to know how many other instances........................Ill be broughtforth after pledging i
On the Plaid Screen
Camegle follower* wr* gratified to hear ef Notre Dame* win 
over Southern'Callfornia. The Flghtlrig lrleh had but one day of rest 
after,leaving Pittsburgh, before entraining for the coast, and -It Is 
highly Improbable that they played any better *footbail against':the. 
Trojans than they flashed against Carnegie. Thereforebut youve 
already figured It all out.
The Sporting Editors desks are beginning to be plied high with 
ALL AMERICAN teams, most of which are picked.by. men who did 
not.soe a eIngle c^llege. game^during the season. But it Is Interesting 
to note that on a great number ot these selection^ os well as : on 
elevens picked by authorities on the game, that Carnegie men are be
coming more and more, numerous, os. that 19 to 0 slowly, sinksin. 
This department was going to pick'one (we belong fa. tho elus .of 
authorities on the game), bat everybody knows the Carnegie lineup, 
.so why repeat It'here?
' If that proposod game with Northwestern at Chicago had gone 
through, next years team would surely deserve the title of the '"Ramb
ling Scotch."' .Games are already with Weetmlnsteir,-at-Youngstown, 
Ohio; New Tork University; at ' New .Torb; and West Virginia at Morgantown, os;well as'wllh'Thlel/Waah-jett and.PItt'In Pittsburgh.
soyaMr. Lanahane party' 6aturday
Only two more weeks ot school till Christmas vacation. And then 
we come back to school on January Mb, all ready for a good rest The' 
first basket ball game is carded for January 8th, and the-final exams 
come two weekB later. It's a great Ufe!
The varsity and plebe basket ball candidates have been working 
.out dally for the last' two weeks, and Coaches Irwin and AlllBon ex
pect to complete the.weeding out process In the. near futujre. ' Pros
pects look bright for a bigger and better soason, if the boys survive 
the J&nuaiy -exumB. .
The editor of thle column had t pound thle out with hie left 
mitt, due to the cave-man grips of some of the prospects. Hooray 
for the old and olammyl
PAST SEASONPEAK OF SKIBOGRID HISTORY
(Continued torn page One) Greensburg. bn Thursday night, after a great sendolt by the students. The effects, of this werq plainly seen In the Stadium on 
Saturday, when', before a crowd of fifty thousand, Captain Yoder led hlB men lo a clean cut victory over the Panther, 14 to 0. In this game, booked ae an Individual struggle between Donohoe and Welch, the Panther back was far outclassed by his speedy Skibo rival, who' eluded him cleanly on his flrBt dash for a touchdown, and gained practically at will throughout the game, while Glbby was stopped cold. This game brought the City title back to Camegle for the third time in the last four years. On the following Saturday;' Detpolt University was seenand'the 1of 7 I
 Indict9 the first
mut} game 'of the ytof Carnegie 
and! while Donle waa unabl to away for any long gains, .LetBr plunged through the giant rlt nine - ff gain after, 'gain,' ing the wlnntngtouchdown In the third quarter., New York was played at the, Yankee Stadium on November 6. The; team left the East Liberty station on Thursday evening, with the cheers of. a big turnout of students still ringing in thplr eare, and landed In New York on Friday Here they were 'taken tho Westcheoter-BUtmore Club, tho hangout of the
the<end Is not yet-ln sight. The 
.final Lanahan party, was held it: Saturday - at. the Chortlers Heights Country Club, end Thursday of this week will find them at a Klwsnls luncheon at' the Fort 
Pitt Hotel, while" the Pittsburgh Chamber ot Commerce has mi elaborate banquet 
be held Saturday. Tickets for the later may bo procured by Btudents ait Buddy Overends office. At thlB affair the members of the 
iquad will bo presented with tok>ns of regard from the City.Only eleven men earned their 
letters ' by' playing the required iber of quarters, these being Mefort,. Captain Yoder, 'Captain Elect* Anderson, Manby. Cowan. Cooper, Sweet, Harpster, Donohoe, Goodwin, and Lelzelter. Of these i, Mefort, Yoder, Manby. Gpodwlll'nofhe soon forgotten.. Andtalnly be a tough job to replace them, for players of All .merlcan caliber do not bob up very year. Cooper, Cowan, and Anderson have another, year to play, while Sweet, Harpster i^nd
400. T of tbe isojourn herof the
iree consecutive hard id Tartan attack was unlo anything, but the linemid seem that deferred j upheld its reputation by holdingtheir opponents scoreless, the winnlng points coming from, field eeml-barbanlc stale; however!goats byConor,;fiashy:Vlolet.hack.be expected and It. la i Harpater'a punting was the Carthe general belief .that the. sy-atem I negle feature in this game. . which in principle is undoubtedly Then came the real .letup, the 
.he faJrest that could be inaugural-1 game with Juniata, on Armisticeid, will eventually arrive at that j Day., November 11, which the sec-,itage where violation of Ihe rules ond team romped away with by. atrill he ' practically unheard of.
American: educational system.Dean Clark of the University of Illinois saw the fraternity grow in-that Institution from nothinglatlonal.Dean Fifeld.of Georgia Tech made wonderful speech on the fralerty as seen-from the deans winiw. Many fraternities would asp a freabman and force him join, thereby-making him a liability instead of an asset. His icdy 'foi* these conditions is to make a brother of him, and then 
ansform him into a fraternity brother.Dr. Lewis said. that the Demo^ atlc spirit la-the most essential for-the prosperity of anyfrater>
On thisBill . Manby .and ' Newt Cowan played great games at the fullbeick an-1 halfback positions. Attcr ibis game Mr. Lanahan, in a speech to the players, ssked, them to play their'hardest 1n the West Virginia game. Thle talk was a great p 
i the -proper-frame of mind for the the Mountaineers... .West'Virginia.'came to town on the! 20th of November, brimful of confidence after the return of Big Ed Morrison to the lineup, and were soundly trounced by the Skibos, rejuvenated after, tbelr rest. The score was 20 to 0 and It did not .quite represent the superiority ot the Tartans,' Donohoe. 1n makmg his second touchdown of this gome,.displayed what Wolly called the best broken field running he liqd eyer. seen.
And'then came the Notre Dame game! Even' the most optimistic Carnegie rooters refused' to concede the Tartans a chance against SCHEDULE PLUMBING I the National Champions.' NotreCONFERENCE FOR ! Dame alumni found difficulty in. ^JANUARY 18, 19 AND 20 finding evon money on 13 points;' I But Walljfs Proteges  had tbelr(Continued From Page One) . ! own ideas about the probabte out-interested In this' wofk.'- Many'come ot'the game.. The aqtiad saw 
-mattersvital to public health.are '; the Pitt-State. game-as'-gueatst of diHcu?aed,^t.each ^ee|.|ng.. 'They the Pitt management. as thoy haddesigned the layman.Those connected with the Industry realize, that sanitation is a. science which vis fast developing. Consequently they ^ welcome; any interest the.1 puiblic displays In their work. '
SECOND ANNUAL M. M. C. C. COLOR DAY WILL BE DEGEMBER7
(Continued i!rom. Page Ooe.) paeeed!the' examltiatipn' 'wlil;wMr: 
wfiite, and the Sbphoincjre, Junior,' an.d'Senjor prosidenU wljl pIn the 
bi%k ^aiid 'goid . ciaas colon on thorn as, thoy' march'-'{Dto'. aBsem; bg. : fbe Freohnian 'president will )rfn ; the' colors; ^n.th'fi'" Fresbtnan^ T>callyvAdvisorwho: will: rbe #hosenDe^^r-l.
; the field hoi 
aveied up' to the mountains near reenaburg. where final preparaons Wareattended' to In' order lat Notre ; Dame might be -Seul awn. ; N nne .wh will reati thjs need 3 told about the game; for no debili of. it will he forgotten 'aa 
long as; Carnegie has  footbaU team And'there-are'Tow;' carnegl'e spoiters but who beileve tha'thir team could heal ' No ir 'Dame nett. 
S^trdayi'If. another: game/waa^to be', played. V
' ^anquetB ar ' now the ' order' of fhe' day for: members of ^he'lt^ai Boglnn|ng. .with. the' Varslty cii feMt','which formerly.' terminated 
the;.Mlebr^|oiia.u|nV;1helr^ htnr. the Sklbo.stalwarts enterad .upon 
 T55S-i ef)tertaiomntot^hicb
Lets*]ter hav 
pftlgns ahead et them. Other let* tere were recommended for English, Mletetner. Myers, Levvwell, Gellfns, Chalupa and Swalle. - The 
.ffifert .tiro men would, have earned heirs if they hod not beon* injred;th naxt-threevere ter Mri> torloai work daring the season while the last two were jecommendod for faithfni irork with the 
BCrubs for tho past ' three years. Maaager. Paul Williamswill also Oe awarded' a letter, which' Is unof any member of the (mu - *301* has worked hard this year, u well aa 1b the past tin 7
BLOND gentlemea and <!aik-liaiied gentlemen, 
diffident* freshmen and august 
Prince Albert is the overwhelming 
favorite of every! type and every pipe, (Yes, 
the pipes do have a voice in the matter. They 
can act m a docUe^ friendly manner or they can 
be mean. It depends on what you feed them.)
Open a tidy red tin of good old P. A, That 
first fragrant whiff will tell you why gentlemen 
prefer Prince Albert. iTuck a load into the bowl 
of your pipe'and light up. Fragrance and taste 
alone are enough to jvin you. XSf(
But P. A. doesn*t stop there. It 19 cool* 
smoking. It is mild as Maytime, yet it has 
plenty of body. It is kind to your tongue and 
throat. You can hit it up all you like and it 
never hits back. Try a tin of P. A. .You'll 
certainly prefer it after that.
1>RINCE ALBERT
no other tobacco is like it!
He 
-business
s wanted
and now, while he doesn't 
the business, he's got what .he 
had. hoped for in a business of 
his own.' Hes gained the oppor
tunity to bring out the best there 
is in human effortsto handle 
men rather than materials.
Thats.what Howard D. Ege 
had in mind during the time of 
his early schooling at -Grand 
Island College. It was actively 
developed during 1919-21 when 
he worked nights in a Lawrence 
power .plant while completing the 
work for his B. Sin Engineer
ing at Kansas University. .
Ege doesnt scorn the; wellknown dtctum of SocratesKnow thyself. But he gets 
more of a .kick .Qut of-the pracQrcal application of Know others/-
Today-five years after en
rolling in the -Westtnghouse 
Graduate Students Co.urser-rhe 
directly controls a staff of fifty ,, 
persons. 'And hes rwponsible
own
for coordinating the efforts of 
1500 employeeshalf of them 
men and half.of them womenon the production floor.
Ege is Production Supemspr 
in the Coils and Insulation De
partment at the East Pittsburgh 
Works. He is the link between 
the entire Wes.tinghouse organi
sation and thirteen foremen who 
directly supervise the work of 
hundreds of .employees. He is 
engaged in a production job 
which turns out finished parts. . 
with.a shop value of more than 
$ijopq>opo a year.;  "
How Westinghouse offers 
oppormnity to engineers differ- 
ing widely in outlook is demonstrated again in Ege s case' From' the time he cpneeiyed' his
 What's thefuture with < 
large organization?" Tha 
u tahat (allege men 
frtl. of all. The. question is test  
answered by tbe detmpUshments 
of ethers xoith similar training 
end Hie opportunities. .This is 
one of a series of advertisements 
fortraying. the progress at. West-, 
inghouse of tjpital allege grad-, 
states, off tbe eampui some Jivt 
-rr-eightten years.
ambition to' work: with men his 
path has foilpwed a straight line.
. His training course at East Pitts
burgh was. in,Works Manage-, 
ment. This, lasted about a' year. 
Then he became Chief Clerk in 
-.the Coils and Insulation Depart
ments O^Iy one .year later .he . 
became Supervi'spi,Reporting  
directly to the-Works Supenn-- 
tendent of Production. : '
To the man-who wants' to 
work with, men rather than witlv. 
materialsi^^ Westinghouse 'offers^ 
promising !9piM^tuniti^V^.>V%'l^!,;Westinghouse

---------------------------------------------------

THB CAWNWI TAWTAW
K Kv&f&pV 
TUIWY, PICIMI1W 7. 1
30tt<Snn^3>ian
s. u> :oa^Us n
Managing Editor.'.....i;V:. .Sam'WellNews Editor............;r...i.h'..;.V.'..:.Francis KolbAthletic .Editor...........William R. .Bernard!
CONTBXEUTINGEDrrQKS 
Ellenor Tallmadse.'.-' Robert M. PewRussell Bollinger.. Ralph HitchcockHarold Jacobson Bario Grlfflas
eredlth Stump - Mflton CohenFentonFinn  . Jean.Hq
,s ALMM BDITORS  ,Margaret Russell ' \ - Herbert Giau :
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin' Holen ReedJosephtne Clarli .'.Charlea.Hrtung
Stewart Ralston R. H. Snyder Fred Woode Clark Wesmer Joseph G. Ritter William McNeU RicbaidKIng ' Han-y Wldom Eugene Scanlon Clyde MoKea, : CjrU Lstzelter Bob Young
 BUSINESS STAPF 'Baslness Manager..;....;..........Arnold PrretoiCirculation Manager..;.....,............B.SnpowitsAdvertlslng Manager..-. ..... . Shelby 'McMlUion
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS. James Velbert -  : v3jL NobleTw BZenk A. M. Biwn
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
h. Sacke G. W. Brahmst J. R. Brown
IT IS TO BE YOUE COLUMN !
in use today. The mere mention .of the word 
suggests to the. lay mind the accomplishments 
of the laboratorytesttubes', retorts,, electric
al apparatus, and the like.  To some, the word
------ conjures up.images of the middle age alchemBeginniog with the nest issue of the Tarists, men who were said, to have resorted to
tau/* onDecember 14, this ibjghbro-w 'Jback black art in .thftir' -espertmBnis, pjonQiinevng
page will .be heightened in interest by tho inweird incantations the while .over their, handir
"troduction of 'ift^ri'column .of ;tgenfirU3..'sizo work,
and object, to be known as Campus Opinion. A definition of science at this puont is not'
Under this caption the Tartan" will regularamiss. Surely the clearest, most eompreherily print the opinions of individual members of sive one is this : . Knowledge reduced to order,
the student body and facultae, opinions which The popular conception of science endows it
are as yet unexpressed for lack of a suitable with personality. Sunday supplement headmedium, opinions which, if the walls had ears, lines with.their Science Promises Relief or
they alone would hear. Science Fears to Investigate Death Ray, and
  .  *  * thfe anti-evolutionist's Science cant prove
There ar but two-reasons why the editors' anything are equally erroneous,
have not' begged for Contributions up to this To personify the word is to be guilty of the
time. Last year su.clr  column failed. Out of grossest ignorance. There is no .element of
sixteen letters-which appeared in the Campus mystery connected! with science. All scientific
Comment'* column,:thirteen of them were writaccomplishments have resulted from research,
ten by the prsent writer. . Now, although one the reasoned application of available knowlwriter found thirteen'subjects upon which to edge. The logical application of .principles is
Greatest Fall Sport
nd-lay. Alt Aloralams beer. .,:i"
After football season comes the two week fall classic, namely rushing season. Each year it gets bigger and better! Each .day brothers get more worried. Each hour the rueherB get annoyed. Each minute tbe profs get more disgusted.
Rushing Is a great game! .Like tbe real estate game and the boot* legging game, It takes a damn good man to sell a proepecti tomers. The rasheeB get nthan JojHaiaftei
express himself,', the ;stunt failed miserably : 
its purpose; it was .one person's. opinion, not 
thirteen, the'letters were
tbe essence of scientific investigation.
The alchemist pf medieval times was hand
icapped at the very outset, because he dcpendr. groove, entirely .laekiiyj. spontaneity. The . ed. almost entirely upom'chancc-discoveries' to 
other difficulty concerns the method of starting . reach his goal.' He knew very little; he sought niph  mWii ' 'w. i^n u Woii. t0 hoodwink the layman by investing his
own activities,: in an atsnosphere of mystery.
Modem investigators have taken pains to in
form the public that advance in achievement 
of knowledge, is logical in order and that the 
discovery, of one truth or series of truths leads 
to .another. Even so, the fallacy of pers.onificasuch a column. We will be accused of begging 
for contributions, of conscripting opinions, of 
introducing an artifiiciat stimulus into such a project. It would be, desirable if contributions 
were to come to us unsolicited, but the Tar
tan is merely-taking this opportunity to as*
, sure the campus that it has a place for all stuw ......r..,..............................................................
dent opinion. We are out to encourage thinkcontinues to exist in the popular mind, anding imbers of the student and faculty bodies tUe pseudo-cientist still makes it necessary to 
ee ><" TOi* e.out to stimulate eac]0Se the word in. quotation marks at least 
fifty per cent of the time.Minnesota Daily.
COLLEGIATE SPECIALIZATIONe jif-'thus resolved, then, that a .Campus 
Opinion column which will depend for its ex
istence on "campus contributions. If a decent ~----------
percentage of the student body-make use of the We frequently hear alumni osked he quescolumn, it will become a regular department tion: Which helped you more in college,
of the Tartanit will stimulate thought and .studies ror.activities? The answer 
action, and may even work wonders. Above that the one did, and sometimes that'the other
all, everyone will have a medium for expressing did.- But it is not the way in which persons
himself to a large number of readers in a diganswer.the question that concerns us: it i
nified way.'' fact that they are at all able to answer it.
There are lots of thiugs which would benefit ; Not verymany years ago, it was apparent
by discussion right now. The practicability of that the American'characteristic, the propendelayed fraternity rushing on this campus, prosity for  differentation, for classification, for
jects for the Studeut Welfare Committee, mudemarcation, had permeated the colleges.
i the Beanery during lunch hour, th migrai to and the taking over of the Grill by wol students at lunch time, dormitoryilife,--fra
ternity life. Points of Quality, the Activity
-When a Freshman came to the campus he had 
it firmly fixed in his mind that the curriculum 
j one thing and that the extra-curriculum 
j another thing. His-parents and his friends
System; then, more, general; prohibition and thought likewise, as-did the faculty aud most
the colleges, student government, relatibh.ber of His classmates..' Thus it came-.about that
tween faculty and student members, aiid .derby some persons in college emphasized the imporhats on dorm men. A frank discussion.pf'these - tance of tlie curriculumto the exclusion of all 
things through the Campus Opinion^column else,-and other persons'.weii.t to^the other
of the Tartan would prove stimulating to .treme. '.
both writer and readers. , But the American cotlege was not to remain
Names or initials should be attached to all],: at such a-point in specialization. The deinarcontributiona, but either will be withheld at cation between. curriculum andextra-curricuthe will pf the writer. This should be an enlum was not-enough; consequently, we find to;
couragement teethe more retiring.students who day special fields within..botli the curriculum
may desire to express themselves if they could and the extra-cxrrriculum. A student in this
e .that itheir names would never-get iiito
.^Tt-is-.to'be your column, so.-make use.-of-.it 
often. Address all contributions to Campus 
Opinion, Carnegie Tartan Office.
M. T. H,
The all-inclusive term science has caused
day of - collcgiate ..specialization to be .highly 
. regarded by'his classmates  must concentrate' 
.on ,one .of,the: following rfootball, women, ..poli
tics,. culture, study. A faculty membei* to 
be considered worthy .of his fellows must know 
something in some specific field that no oue else 
knows. Perhaps one of the reasons why the 
faculty -members and the student do not always 
appreciate the problems of the other is that 
each lias divided his mind into a watertight
e .controversy than any other word compartment.Colorado Silver and Gold.
OXFORD MAN GIVES IMPRESSIONS
A ON AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES
Someone told me the other, day oi a. young boy who waa worJOog his way through college. His Joi> entails his.being on duty at night, every night, tfor nine hours: In the. morning he attended his classes, and In the afternoon he slept I said, I admit that his conduct Is heroic. But how does he learn .anything that way? He goes-io three classes, - you saythat ti,< does three hours' work a day with 
. a: tired brain.  What does he knoWi at the. end of it all?* The aa: swer-.was that attar foar years ot attending, laaBes.- lie would get a <iegre: and on the strength otthat degree, a better job..-.-The ">tr9uble 'is-- that employers havenot really accepted the value of knowledge, or. at culture, or of anything of' that -sort: they haveimply, been jockeyed Into accepting, the value ot.-e..degree.-WfeiTe
poaslbiy :mch better. But
. We la Oxford are often criticised for not' ' working pur way through college." There areplenty ot idle men in Oxford, and they get bad degrees: they learn very little;. But a man who spent hair the day, or;tnore, In working for-a.-llvlng,.Instead of la.-raclnghorses,' acting, rowing, or lying in bed, wouldnt learn , any more than, the idlers do.. I doVt\deay thathe would be a more eatlmabie 
person: but he wouldn't be. any more , than-they, a scholar. One mustn't confuse, the-mbral " with the educational Issue. No . man hasthe time-both to earn a living -and tovleam'.-ali that an-;unlverstty. can teach him. And tbe next great move In -American education will be therecognition. that the bestdegrees, and-not education, arejbe[ college is vthat whose good degree
S university.-men wilL coi 
ttnue to attend . universities: under 
ondltlonawhich really make it impossible forthem to be educat- .di, and. ttnlverslUes:: vboM/rProa* perity depend on people;\w^ntlng 
. degrees../.without ; education ' will coaUnue to give degrees which seep* as a record ot assldtfftflue prthlftM I dont deny that a Man a edueata hiniMlf vblte 
PVNB, He aa do that as
ajsta^ backwanls. --Those who have not the time or the money for an university education, must realise . (educationally - speaking) the lime oj money spent at collefie bt wasted - This looks Ilka an at tack on general education Jhe retort Is that the enthusiasm the talent* aad* the'ash ~aow lavished upon tho universities should fw
? pay -
the high schools, 
iot,under the obligi
THE SEVEN , THAT WERE HANGED AND THE RED LAUGHANDREYEV.
Not long . Bgo,. Alexander, King 
published a cartoon In which three unutterably ,vetched people .Were represented, huddled together in the corner of a miserable'lot. Our two most vavnted American realists, -peered, In: atvthem -Chrcagh: (he 4obr, end the caption read:
fer. y
A lovely thing, this cartoon; if the coontenances oi any other merciless realists" were substltut>d for -Andersobs leer and 'Drels* era gloat, we should stlU have just as good a carlcatore^of the realistic attitude. But if 'Leonid Andi shown staring gloomily and intently in. he might with all propriety be represented exhorting the sufferers to take ilow and hard, and not to hurry. 
For If there ever was a writer, realist or ,'expressionlst.'Vwho .was crape up'all the dregs of >r mortals bitter draught, ' is* the man. Especially Is thia true of the first of the two 
works published in Volume No. 46 in the Modern Library SerleB. anyone since Maupassant seen ) deeply into tbe heart or a coward than he has in "The Seven Who Were Hanged?* Has anyone. Balzac, given us a picture ofabjet
tbe famous suppression of "Jurgen. When tho dark blue clouds 
bad cleared away, and the public was allowed once more to read that dlectable book, "the fow lordly critics who had not as yet given praise'to perverted Roteantic1st hastened to do so at their earliest possible convenience. Now .there is BnUrecconsent^in at. least; one pointCabell is undoubtedly, an excellent artistthe ;only -.qcestion. .which re main s . to .trouble ((h^.
ent in literature, is the question of just how good Cabell is. Should he be ranked above D, or on a par with It. or two Bteps below" W, 'or one rang ahead of P?But. as Tennyson once eaid in qoite another connection, we may "let them rave;" we have "Jurgen, and "Figores of Earth,n and "The Cream of the Jest" to read and be glad over. In these subtly constructed, delicately fashioned webs of word6. we may enjoy communion.With ah artist' who' coh'slfl' thing only as having real worth in the meaningless shadowshow of human existenceand that i thing' is beauty.  Whether it in the'tongue-in-cheek heroism 
of Dom Manuel, or the shady do lngs of Jurgen and Dame Analtis,' Kennastons poignant visions, it always, beauty that he 6ees. None of these books has a real plotof that we are gladand although Cabell does take his heroes through many paralyzing adventures, they are the strangest adencq^ntej-d are apt to occur anywhere pytof tbe universein Arthur's kingdom, or on gloqmy n Heath, or the'dlz; Vraldex, which, , as >ws. Is the place, wl
FALL IN STOKS AS 
MONEY INCREASES
fine dni bori
Earl Carroll's famous little party. They ore given cigarettes, stogies, 
and headaches by o exhurberaat brothers who nee'ds 
ust. build-up -the.;active chaptsi > what It waa back in 1892 (ask ly alumni whos had one).
The FroBh thle year are a likely looking bunch. They are likely do anything, and they have two weeks to do It in. Never since the.ley were high school they had so much attention.. And vlf they knew their ike the moet of It all, for it. will be the last t^me In their collegiate career that they ill hold the center of the stage. 
All the upper classmen are on their good toehavlc-r. No more -w^ki with girls
ouely doubt Jt.
There 1i much fine heroism In________________this .'book, -jnoch aohUity -jn the^^n^^. evr-h< souls of ths. other - six condemned. 
rsvobiUonletfi-rrbut that Js jiot what one remembers. Nor is it loving drama of "The Red Laugh. that lingers. The pic.ure that remains in the mind, long ifter the. book has bees laid aside, a that of one trembling, sweating vretch screeching his terror to the iky. while the executioners quiet his struggles and force his lolling head Inelde the noose. Aterrible alght for all of-us to look upon 
when one made In the image of God casts off the ma: selves try always to shows us his livid, terror-stricken face. We know then that masks should always be worn; we re 
nize that these dreadful feati have too much In common i
BEYOND LIFECABELL.
Critics on this side of the wat seldom mention DreBler and And without speaking also of Jam nch Cabellfor it Is the three men who are responsible for y iaifee part of what Is best inthe contemporary American novel. But-about the latter a' of the mighty ones are still dded. For it' was not ago that moat of them, if they ed him at all, considered him >me, mannered, ..ohscure 
>oIogy for this quei things is contained angest hook of them allBeid Life. This is, for the most t,  diverting monologue In which tbe author seta forth his Ideas on literary craftsmanship. In 
meticulously polished prose, Charterls. the ostensible hero of the book, talks for the greater part of an evening, saying one brilliant thing after another in support of his theory that to write perfectly | vf
FRENCH FRANC 
CONTINUES TO 
RISE IN VALUE
May be Serious National 
Difficulties as Result of Rise 
in Value of Cunrency Now
Jany Foreign Investmente In 
France -re In Bonds 
Which Specify Francs.
Notes of MusicBy Allan V. Nem
of beautiful tbe ultimate aim of letters. It Is Cabells aim aK It is the unattainable Ideal to which he Is ever striving; ai comes very near succeeding.
Indeed, if. I were to state the vicUons that sometimes assal iubject, there would 1
ihould be
revlithe TarUu 
io ' news-nothing words of praise
end to would < but IntempiIt would be voluminous, end; and the startled editors-would' And, next week, that they should have to order a new supply of Paper. .rA. "E..'FISHER. ..
France is beginning to feol 
jme of the economic difficulties 
hlch arise from the continued im
provement of tbe -condition ofher 
irrncy. The franc has been 
.uadlly rising nntil its valoe.at 
the present Hw Is higher than' It oi-'Ere'thlm six. months.'
: in the value of the frani iult of the success with j which the French Government has resisted 'temptation -to farther InflaUon ot th currency, and ' the very earnest attempt wblcb is being made to balance tbe national 
budget.
It is often thought that it Is high* iy advantageous to a country when there ie an increase In .the value of Its currency. Bui the truth of the matter Is that there may be just as .se/ious^nationQl.jJUitcjjltleB as a result oMbe/risevln'thd^alae^ 
of a countrys currancy as is/th# case when there Is a T3T1. ' -The slogan of the French for 6ome time past has been "Save the franc, whereas at. the present time the Government is concerned - because of the fact that it seems impossible to keep the'franc from rising too rapidly. As confidence In the ability -of tbe Government grows 
thero has been a constant incroase in the value of the franc.
One o( the results' Is seen In the great fall In the value of many of the stocks on the French Bourse, where sharp advances In the value 
of the .franc have caused correspondingly sharp declines in the alue of these stockB. In one day i on the Bourse dropped than 12 per cent decided',decllncBVJiavethose stocka-which 
tlonally owned because of the fact hat Individuals in countries out ilde of France find that ttf$y art ible to ' get more of their 489 money when they sell theli French stocks for franca and then 
:hange the francs Into their urreucy than was the case merly. On the other hand fo:of these stocks are willing lessfrancs for the stocks find that they
' CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA
The Cleveland Orchestra, Nikolai Sokoloff, conductor, - will give the 
third pair,.of concerts;ih the,Pitts
burgh Orchestra Association series at .'Syria Mosque oh Friday night 
and Saturday afternoon..!A. special concert . Xijr ,c)U14ren will , also be given on Fitfay afternoga -fcom 4 to -S' oclock. Friday n^I^s program ipjjowp:.
Overture, 'Celebration," Op.' T5 - . . ............ GlaeOiinolESymphony No. 3 (Unfinished)...
....................................- Borodin
A Victory . Ball Fantasy .for'Orchestra ................ ... SchelllngSiegfried's. Rhine Journey, trom 
"The Dusk of.the Gods. .WagnerCaucaslon Sketches..................
...................... IppoIltoff'IvanoKIn the AuL March, of the Sarder. 
Rhapsody .Espaa '.....Chabrler . The Saturday .matinee program 
follows: - . * Overture,.Carnival,.Op. 92....
.Nocturn^Scherro fiom nznslc to -
'Midsummer Night's-Dream*'..
.......... ... MendelssohnTone Poem. "Don Juan,*' Op. 20....................... StraussIn B-flat Major, Op,20 ...................... Chaosson
Capricclo Espagnol, Op. S4..
| SHORT ORDERS 1
that one of the more cultured fra-nltles has had six brothers ,hldsince the Notre Dame game. And if we know rightly. It has nothing at all to do with Bilack Bottom.
If rushing season lasted through six weeks every fraternity man (or as he is sometimes .called by f-he energetic Tartan reporters, FRAT man) on the campus would have grey-hair, tLn eara, and'the caloused palms of a pick and shovel hero. Blah, blah, blah is the battle cry of the season. If only fraternities were as ideal' as they were pictured the problem of a Utopia would be solved.- 
. Here,;rusheea, is the real dope to get from the fraternity wh< you are being bid! Overlook the
XMAS EMPLOYMENT
Inititi fees.house bills, dui on.the bigger things in fn life. -Does the home ha'
in the same.mlrror.for 8:30s? Who is expected to;buy.tooth paste and shaving cream v for the chaptei Will you have to sleep In aa u per deck, and mayhap In .front  an open window? Are the brot era gentlemen? This last question Is to create a general good impression on the dear brothers and an indtrect way of asking if can hold their corn without Ing like a Kansas farmer's 1
Horay, for rushing season, the,bast men -do,. their.arndest and next Sunday noon the fraternities will be gone from our campus. In tbelr place will be myriads of Wondering
the present low standard aim nulIIAes.such.efforts as the unlv 
sltles now make. 1 make bold to suggest that the high schools, if taken seriously, are capable ot attaining very nearly tbe standard of many colleges.' But while em
ployers are1 fascinated, by a college degree, universities will continue j.o give,; without' provocation, ' degrees of commercial value. A false aten must be retraced: before high
er educationbecomes: like primary. education, free and genuine.These high schools, now. Time after time.'i-am-assured by .mem; bers of faculties that the time and energies ofrtiie .collages .are -largely thrown away by the scandalous Inefficiency .of. the high school teaching. "We have to spend-two years going over what they re supposed to know when' Sthey come here.": said one'melancholy Dean. -ItreJust -bricks. ..without'/ straw. said another. People: are surprised and shocked at our Oxford specialisation. ' Don't they give you a general, -all-ardund education?'' -they say. Why. you have to pass a 'general all-around - examination to get intoOxford at all. You hai tb ahow. or' lo" haVe: sbovn som 
dmer a good^workln^ knoYiedge cf
English, French, Lalln or Ch Iry, Mathematics, and Hiator; youre not up to standard la these, you cant start. And yet Oxford said to be easier to enter thaa are most of the big provlncla;i uni
versities  London, Manchester, Sheleld, and. so forth. The public ' schools andv grammar -schools (that Is,'r.oughly, boarding school! 
and dayschools-respectively) art obliged to maintain' a standard fai aboye that'even expected of th< high school. -No one can. visit an American college without being Impressed, opvperh^ps'-oppneaaed. >by-the display, of college.spirit.. I shouldnt Jut this ..down -to .the. American temperament: .again, it's a quea(M ot.antecedents. In Uie Eng
lish unlTfersltiea. other, than Oxfbrd and Cambridge, there Is hardly a collegiate life, and the prob* lem does not arise. At Oxford and Cambridge, . the majoritv: of undergraduates have been bers of a corporate educational, body for-eight or nine yeara be fore ..coming..., .up. . At the nea: boarding." schools - "the  Pu^ll< Schools '!and before them-in th smaller preparatory' ^ schoolsth^ .haya-^faecome: fimlllar .with' 
*v" lile; theyhave b#-
and Ice men will
Pittsburgh.< the Junl iiiing awa:
Many boys who went r Prom, will also be during their Chrlstbat will happen according Beatty, manager . of the Ei ployment bureau. Besides tbeidoubtedly be many of a more appealing nature. Department stores and many other downtown establishments will be demanding students' to help .them In handling the usual Christmas rush. Students desiring jobs ing-the holidays will do well to in touch with our obliging emyment.offlce..
HINDUSTAN ASSO.
come acclimatised to it gradually and without loss of balance.- The University marks, if anything, reaction toward indlvldualisi 
But the American Freshman fini In college his first raw experlen In living as a member of a larj bodya body far larger than that into-which the English schoolboy was initiated. It goes to his head, Everything. Js . organised . to,-mke. it go7to. his headi' In case be should come to a sense of proportion, he is kept up to the top of Ills bent by pep meetings-and fool ball matches. These arent the devilish .conspiracy which they seem. They are' merely an expres
sion. of the impetus Implanted la
ly.. Nobody naturally desires such things. But hbbody can stand against the - Invincible and (or becaus*): impeYsonai-;tide, '  - * .It may,, ofl course', he. defensible, and even admirable. It may be a worthy, object to instill'-into Americanyouth the fervor 'of Platonic Communism. Only -it doesn't education  any good. Even' If porate enthusiasm Inclined to most enliehtenlng , snbjer-ts, would do educaf on no goo8.. The only -this* --worth8 haying .at -.uni-vereftlee Is learning t! top.<Ink: and
the pep movement. keeps o*T education. -It-makes, a shambpa of football and akimbo of" reitcloa. 'Are you awpre. glr." said,a member ofthe HoQBe of Commons;
"that  Enallsh Literature la "not f*neht tnr - Enallsti - schools?'-- Thank God replied Arthur Bat four: thenMlaietervof Education, there Is at leant a-jiub^ect upon
C. Economeneial Juouthlyuneetlng on.Saturay, December 11, at eight p. m., 
r Room 118-B, Industrie's building.A subject worth attention, and inBreallng to discuBB, will be taken up by Dr. N. Miller,'n the Departmen 
les of Carnegie. The lecture ^ be highly instructive to the ' i dents of history and economics. Mlller ls going to speak on "1 Promise'of the East before ' members of the clirtK The org izatlon is looking forward to scholarly talk with intelligent t farsighted remarks: The questii of the East remain ambiguous the Occident, and It is expected that a discussion of the do' much to clarify it. invitation to atend the meeting had been extended to all who so desire.
BRIDGE PARTY
On Saturday, December 1 Webster Hall, the Costume Economics Club will hold a brldgi The committee for this affair i composed of Misses Maty McFarland, Margaret Lythe.and Margaret E./Smith. Arrangements are -nearing completion.'Tbls>-bridge will be held for the benefit of two scholarships given by this club. The assessment for thle affair is $1.25 per person, or $5.00 a table. Since there 1s a limited number of tables it is ad-tickate i The plans arc almost com will be announced later. .and
CARNEGIE AT INTERNATIONAL
Bv Department of Carnegie ' Tech waswell represented. Two bars of the faculty, and two former students were among the contrib
utors. Mr. Simboli, Instructor in the art department, won s< place in the popularity vote o portrait, "Beb. This painting was sold. ''Birthday Morning, was the subject of Mr. Taylor, a of the Art^ department ';,Tha.two,.former; etudenls/..ret sented in the exhibit were Mesi 
Schulgold and'parcejl. The latti painting did not compete for-h ors. bavins taken a prize at Chicago Art-.exhlblt In 1924.
ALPHA RHO CHI
Aipna Rho Cbl. national honoi iratemlty at .the Artsv Sphijol .re-, 
cenily coiled the followlng-men:. A. J.. Schmid. J. Bassett.'27: B. H. Batch. '8: C. G. Fry, '29; M. L. Seibert, 28: A. H. Blasell. 28; W. B.ONeal. 29 : J. A. McGrath. -90. and J.. R. Grabam. '28.
Alpha Rho Ghl ls-a national professional architectural' fraternity -which alms-to'promote Intere and further the advancement ofthe profession. . During.the school year this fraternity awards praxes various. times for the best proble^, The members also ta^e tripe to: plac^a where. maUr{al 'of architecture Interest is manufactured;
theirble to' get lesa francs ft :uirency. when ihey have j ihangejd -into -francs  for the pus
The values of those Issues y lomestlcally owned hav< it bewi as seriously aff bythe rise. In the franc,.'be there has been no decided drop in the price level which would affect profits of those concerns.
Symphon]
Rlmshy-Koreakoff
ART SOCIETY
The third program of this sea* >n of the Art Society will be given 'by-Abgpthp .Jeannette Yi$eland, soprano,-ffnd'.Georgn'.Maed er,'tenor. 
T.b.ura4,^y jlght at Carnale Mu*
Arian mio tesoro, from "Donvanni.........Mozart (1781)
Mr. Meader.1ILTU lo sai............Gulaepps TorelliDonzelle, fuggite ..................................Francesco Cavalli
Cantlque ...........Nadia BoulangerVive amour-qul reve, from Cher* 
ubin . .Jules Massenet Miss Vreeland.IV.Auf Flgen des GesangeB........................................ Mendelssohn
 MENDELSSOHN CHOIR
The Messiah will be given Its annual presentation on Tuesday evening, December 2B. 1920. This concert > will begin promptly at 
eight oclock, as an accommodation iul-of-towu patrons wbp have to
point where theri prices which would affect
i busiIvlty with J aess profits.
Many of the foreign Investments In France are being transferred from stocks to bonds which yield a fixed income in francs. The owner of bonds knows that his Income will be a certain number of francs, In spite of certain cheuges In business conditions and further he realizes that the buying power of this fixed income is likely to Increase with the drop which will probahly take place in the price level. The foreign Investor estimates that he will be able, to trans_fr his. Income from .the French bonds Into greater amounts of! bis own currency than .formerly, which will be .op advantage .to him If-he is assured-of a fixed income from his Investment As a result of the rise ot the franc the bond market has been relatively strong.
It seems likely that France will make every attealfit possible to stabilize the franc In the near future so that the country will not 
suffer from the influences of a fluctuating monetary^ unit The important thing to be accomplished in France is not.to.bring the franc 
Uj o much higher value, but  to' stabilize its value at some point so that they may mitigate, as far as possible, fiaanclal and business difficulties which arise from fluctuations In tbe valu of the tranc, whether those fluctuations be up or down. 
BARTOW GRFFSS.
depenSoloistsCorrinne Rider Kelsey, soprano; Ruth Pearcy, contralto; Dan Beddoe, tenor; Fred Patton, 
bass; Earl Mitchell, organist Associate members may retain their usual seat location by notifyJUNIOR SOCIAL WORK PARTY
True to the holiday spirit of giving as well as receiving, the Ju* nior Social Workers have already laid their plans Cor the party which they give annually to the club.glrls of the Heinz House. For severalweeks a committee of eight girls has been working on the details and they have almost completed their plans. ' 
The party will ibe.beld the eve.nlng oC-Deceinber -15 In the Mar* garet Morrison Recreation ball from 7:30 to 10:30. Stories and games, lead by Miss Bonnell of the Social Work department, head the program! Refreshments will be served and each guest will receive a very clever favor. Rosenbaums are donating candy. The decorations will be a departure from the . usual Christmas type as the room will resemblp a bit of a great forest that has ben transplanted from its natural setting. There will', to twinkling stars, and great trees, and-perhsps-evena big roud moon..Dr. ftaiter, Don Greep, Dean 
Breed, 'Miss -Moore, the -pmfa^ja; and.the Seniors -and Jonlp.ra t'he -Social Work department -will also be guests.
Patronize 
* Our* ; 
c-Advertisers
Heres a Thought---
If you cant tlirnk what to get your girl for 
Christmas, if the . boy fnend. seems to have everything he needs, if vouve a kid sister or 
brothei at a difficult age to please.m short, if youre at all perplexed about making out your Christmas list
Ask Santas Secretary!
She will find out for you, by means of an 
ingenuous system of her own, just what your 
friends would reallv like most to haVewithout using your name, of course ( 3
This is one 
/Christmas Store.
many services m The
;DTM7U 9DF2M oo
8Nh
