Counc I Th rows Football Rally
Carnegie Techs first victorious season since 
thirty-eight will be celebrated today at 11:30 
a. m. at an all-school rally sponsored by Student 
Council.
The Kiltie band will begin the proceedings 
by assembling in front of Fine Arts. Several 
fight tunes will be played, and then the cheer
leaders will lead songs and cheers.
If the weather is warn and promising, the 
rally will be held on the Fine Arts lawn. If it 
is cold and dreary, the band will march off to 
the gym.
After the preliminary proceedings are over, 
Starke Drischell, drama senior, as master of ce
remonies, will present the victorious team and its 
coaching staff headed by Dr. Eddie Baker. It 
has been six years since Dr. Baker last served 
as head coach, and it is the first time that he 
has come through with a victorious season.
Starke Drischell will first present the coach
ing staff: Dr. Eddie Baker, head coach; Ed 
Hirschberg, line coach; A1 Irwin, assistant coach; 
and Walter Burns, assistant coach. Next on the
program will be the presentation of the team.
After more cheers and songs, Carnegie Techs 
football season will be officially ended.
Student Council committee in charge of the 
rally consists of Gerry Meyers, chairman, Lyn 
Gasche, Fred Lunt, and Charles Koester. ODK 
formulated the idea for the rally, and Bob Sin
clair relinquished his chair as president of Coun
cil for a few minutes in order to present the idea 
to the members. Council approved, and the rally 
today is the end result.
Weinreieh Recaps 
Homecoming 
Page C
Basketball Starts 
Nov. 30 
Read Preview 
Page 4
VOL. 43No. 10
ouncc ITnhrwo TsTuF
Its Nick Simcic once again carrying the ball in the first quarter 
against Grove City with Bill Kowe doing the blocking. Simcic tallied 
the second touchdown as Carnegie lost, 13-12.# a $ : *
Tartan Gridders Close 
Successful Campaign
Carnegie Techs football took another one of its crazy bounces 
last Saturday to make the season complete as far as diversity is con
cerned.
It took only the stunning one-point upset at the hands of Grove
City to put the final touch on a*----------------------------------------------------
season which has been filled with
the unexpected from start to finish.
When Nick Simcic cut loose on 
a touchdown run on the first 
scrimmage play of the year, it 
marked the beginning of a success
ful and action-packed schedule.
Singular Season
The tremendously lopsided op
ening game win over surprised 
Bethany, the systematic sure vic
tory over St. Francis, and the 
great defensive performance at 
Franklin & Marshall began a year 
which has proved to be indeed 
singular.
Then the shocking and disap
pointing Case affair followed by 
an equally amazing return to the 
victory path against bewildered 
Washington and Jefferson made 
certain that Dr. Eddie Bakers re
turn to the head coaching post 
Was to be well remembered.
At their peak the Tartan grid
ders swamped Marietta and pleas
ed an expectant alumni crowd 
with their grand showing against 
a heavily favored Lehigh squad. 
Wahoppen?
It is ironic, though, that the 
year should end on the sad note 
of upset against the same team 
and on the same type of day that 
the 26 game winless streak was 
brought to a close just one year 
ago.
Nevertheless, the eight game 
schedule can be called nothing but 
highly successful in view of 
has gone before in the 
Dr. Baker and his aides have put 
together a winning combination, 
and it appears that at last the 
fimine is ended.
A summary of the individual 
games follows:
[Continued on page 4]h
Summary
TDPATPts.
Simcic10060
Kenney22234
Metzger4024
Fougere3018
Sommer3018
Wilson3018
?Others5030
3022202
?Five men(Dodson, Holtz, Luchok, Magnifico,Schecter)tied
at one touchdown each.
Grove City Upsets Plaid 
Gridders In Final Game
Tartans Lose 
13-12 Contest 
On Mud Field
Two Touchdown Lead 
Fades As Wolverines 
Win On Extra Point
Masters of the situation through
out the first half, Carnegie Techs 
football squad did an about face 
after the intermission and dropped 
a heart breaking 13 to 12 decision 
to a vindictive Grove City team 
at Forbes Field last Saturday.
Coach Jim Loveless griddei's, 
intent upon gaining revenge for 
last years humiliating 7-0 upset 
which knocked the Grovers from 
the Class B football title, did ex
actly that with a brilliant rally in 
the late stages.
Simcic iiright Spot 
Nick Simcic, even when handi
capped by injuries, was the bright 
spot in the Plaid picture. The 
hard driving running ace ripped 
off 115 yards while scoring one 
touchdown and setting up another 
with his lone pass completion of 
the day.
Carnegies reversal of form is 
readily indicated in the statistics 
which show the Plaid with 124 
yards rushing in the first half 
against only 51 in the second.
Twice early in the contest, 
Simcic broke away on what might 
well have been long touchdown 
[Continued on page 6]
T tTnuruTI ocwFw ba bTIbTF tTFo
Nick Simcic breaks away on one of his innumerable runs of 
the year to register a first down against F&M. Gil Dissen is out in 
front leading the attack. Simcic scored ten touchdowns for Carne
gie in the eight games.
oburr T saal RwTI
EditorialWere Just As Proud
To the football coaches, players and managerscongratu
lations on a job well-done!
For the long and many times, weary hours you put in 
down in the bowl, and for your successful efforts on Sat
urdays in the real tests/ we offer our sincere and apprecia
tive thanks for a good year of football. You didnt win them 
all and you made your mistakes, but we thought that you might 
like to know that were just as proud of you as of Carnegie 
teams which were writing the national headlines from 1920 to 
1939.
In playing through the first winning season that a Carne
gie team has experienced since 1938, you have given us plenty 
to cheer about. You have distinguished yourselves by doing 
what most people refused to even hope fora good football 
team without lowering Carnegies top scholastic standards.
Undermanned and playing under the unusual conditions 
of having one of the countrys most difficult collegiate scholas
tic courses to master, you did yourselves right proud by com
ing through a tough season with flying colors.
Each and everyone of you can be justly proud of the 
past season, no matter how it ended.
Other News, Page 3 
More Sports, Page 4
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949

---------------------------------------------------

2TA4W>ANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949
Editorials
The Right Track
Homecoming has given us something to cheer 
about, but a moan is appropriate, too.
We were happy to see the student planned 
Carnegie Day such a success. The fact was at
tested by the hundred or so students, who un
able to find a seat, stood throughout the entire 
program.
If one factor were to be chosen as the 
reason for the program's success, it wouid 
most certainly be the Kiltie band. Their per
formance was outstanding and equal to most 
professional organizations. We hope the band 
will show continued cooperation with campus 
activities throughout the remainder of the 
year as they have so capably done this fall.
The moan is caused by the flop of the depart
mental open houses. Many long hours were spent 
in preparation for these open houses by mem
bers of the various departments. The work was 
not justified, however, as some departments 
could count their visitors on one hand.
The fault was not in the departments, but in 
the planning committee. The open houses have 
a definite place in the Homecoming schedule, but 
with conflicting events and lack of publicit\r such 
as occurred this year, they will nevei' be a suc
cess.
Cheers And Moans
All too often the attitude is expressed on this 
campus that the administration is composed of 
old fuddy-duddies who are so mentally stagnated 
that they don't know what's going on in the real 
world. Right now an incident is at hand which, 
in one area at least, removes any rational basis 
for his attitude.
Rules for the behavior of students, the
violation of these rules, were among th most 
important issues in the aftermath of the tragic 
shooting at Ohio State University of a young 
man by a drink-crazed fellow student.
It was quite clear in this case that the exist
ence of rules had little effect, either in prevent
ing that horrible event, or in contributing to an 
attitude which would guard against that and 
similar happenings.
Such an event might h^ve happened any
where, but it seems to us that CIT policy, that of 
investing each student with the attitude that he 
is to act as a responsible member of the com
munity, is infinitely better suited to the estab
lishment and maintenance of modes of behavior 
under which such an incident could not happen.
Probably at no other college in America are 
there fewer rules and regulations intended to 
coerce the student into behaving in socially ac
ceptable ways, yet the norm of student behavior 
here is probably substantially above that on most 
campuses, and not from lack of spirit and 
moxie as we are beginning to realize.
This officially recognized policy does not 
spring from a lets-be-kind-to-the-studentsand - when - they - foul-up-well-well-reallylower-the-boom attitude, but rather from a 
substantial faith that students, when they are 
placed in the position of making responsible 
decisions, will react in an adult, responsible 
manner, and that fostering this attitude is 
an integral part of the educational process.
This faith is at once a continuing and everexpanding challenge and a scarcely-appreciated 
opportunity for every one of us.
T/lttP/l IVJL 1 m. jBLm> jbl. 1j m X ^1
OFFICES Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh. Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 1-4557. after nours: news, MU. 1-7017. MU 1-6312; business. EM 1-6597 SC 1-8851 Published weekly during the scnool year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh. Pa
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Albert F Kimmel
Business Manager .............................................. Herbert Stone
Managing Editor ........................................ Paul. V Oflfermann
Personnel Manager .................................... Robert J. Kubiak
News EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn Copy EditorLloyd Dyer. Advertising ManagerMorty Baker Circulation ManagerBud Smith. Art EditorNorman Rosfeld. Features EditorJoe Weinreich.Headline EditorCatherine Rudy. Headline StaffAlfred Dobbs, Jr.. Shirley Larson. Proof EditorJohn Braun. Assistant Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Chief ReportersShirlee Ploeger,A1 Bader. Nancy Sitler. Copy StaffAnalee Gelman, Mary Caulfield, Ed Muttart, Sally Ward, Candy Kane.ReportersJo Chrisanni. Alan Botcky. Joan Blumenthal Mary Cauflfield. Nancy Sitler, Hilda Chottiner. Jane Conner. Edward Koos. Patricia Kelly. Dolores Mitchel. Shirlee Ploeger. Jane Robb. Susan Flood. Hugh Young Cub ReportersJoanne Helms, Ann Parker, Nancy Rausch, Roserr.ary Serafini. Fred Sonnerberg, Joan Webb. Sports Staff Richard Barr. Fran* Carter, Bob Hahn, Warren Lithgow. Fred Lunt, Bob Lynch, A1 Moore, Bruce Updike. Art StaffBill Hofscher. Wayne McBeth, Nancy Lewis. Makeup StaffEstelle Herlick. Leonard Jacobs. Proof StaffJohn 
Tancill, Robert Brown.Business StaffBob Powers. Herman P Alexander Dave Goldsmith Allen Selz. Ray Gorman, Bruce Padolf. Paul Bernstein, Don Winston. SecretaryDorothy Boarts. TypistsPatti McDermott Wilmi Dickson. Shirley Dixon
Represented tor national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING Inc.. College Publisher* Representative. *20 Madison Ave. New Yorit City Subscription *1.10 per year Entered as second class matter on Oct 4. 1907. at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., undei the Act of March 3. 1879 Accepted foi mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Oc
tober 21, 1918
BOY!AM I GLAD TO SEE YOU.
Le tie rs To
What Is It ?
Editor, the Tartan:
I want to ask a question. I would like 
to know what spirit is. Specifically, 
spirit as applied to this school. Appar
ently, Tech students (people, believe it or 
not) are all horrible examples of a woe
ful lack of that stuff spirit. Fraternity 
presidents and all sorts of people from all 
sides seem to be berating the average 
Tech person for this lack of something 
or other. Is the Techite a dismal failure? 
Has he flunked en, masse? Is he disho
nest? Is he is or is he aint?
Now please don't get the wrong slant 
on this thing. I'm not trying to convert 
sincere intentions into an Androscoggin 
clambake. Let's nail it down. Ill go so 
far myself at this point as to offer a 
couple of unlikely explanations. When I 
was an undergrad way up North in the 
country I used to holler and raise gen
eral hell because it was simply fun. I 
used to play poor baseball because I en
joyed playing baseball. If I joined an 
activity it was probably to enhance 
myself in the eyes of my neighbors. I 
dont think I ever did anything because 
someone exhorted me to get spirit or be 
sunk and lost forever. I also have just a 
sneaking suspicion that other people 
react in more or less the same way.
Maybe someone can clarify the situ
ation. It seems too bad to expend a lot 
of talent when no one knows what the 
target is.
Very truly yours,
Rufus Short, Grad P.A.
Usurped Power
Editor, the Tartan:
Last Wednesdays Student Council 
meeting brought to light another in
stance where student government has 
been by-passed by campus organizations 
which have assumed powers rightfully 
belonging to Council. I refer specifically 
to the failure of Delta Skull to include 
the points and keys committee when de
termining future membership, and gen
erally to both Delta Skull and Scimitar 
over the past few years.
However, as each new instance of 
Council power ursurpation becomes ob
vious, the effectiveness of good work is 
lessened. More exactly, unless Council 
can define its powers and responsibilities 
in such a way that no other organization 
can claim a share, it cannot assume its 
rightful position as campus authority.
I am alarmed because Council policy 
is to acquiesce in the face of each new 
semesters challenge by changing and 
ignoring by-laws to fit the challengers
rite Editor
whim. This completely invalidates con
structive work by previous councils and 
creates the general impression that 
Council will make itself conform to in
dividual situations rather than require 
individuals to fit into the overall estab
lished scheme.
The present challenge is of such na
ture that two major issues will be set
tled at once: First, is Council going to 
give up the power to decide who is and 
who is not eligible for membership in 
the sophomore and junior class honoraries; and second, is Council once again 
going to allow student organizations to 
ignore any by-law they  choose to dis
like.
My position is well defined. I do not 
want to allow authority of our student 
government; likewise when Council 
passes a set of by-laws, those by-laws 
must stand as absolute authority until 
such time as Council itself decides that 
a change is absolutely necessary and then 
proceeds to make that change.
Not until every student organization 
recognizes the positive authority of 
Council and the definite channels through 
which that authority may be modified, 
will present ineffectiveness and lack of 
prestige be eliminated.
J. R. Horsch, E.E., '50.
Unbiased Opinion
Editor, the Tartan:
It is terribly disappointing to see hard 
work and original thinking go to waste. 
We are referring to the judging of the 
homecoming displays which were so ca
pably erected by the individual frater
nity houses over the past weekend. Each 
of the houses should be given full credit, 
and nothing should be distracted from 
the winning Sigma Nu fraternity, but the 
one exhibit which was so outstanding 
was awarded only second place by those 
selected as judges.
The Sigma Nu display was very well 
done, although the idea was anticipated 
and almost trite. On the other hand, the 
display erected by Alpha Tau Omega 
was not only original and eye-catching, 
but was by far the most attractive and 
humorous of all the exhibits..
Since we do not know who the judges 
were we cannot condemn them. Perhaps 
they were a group of blind men. In any 
event, fie upon them and their judge
ment and orchids to ATO for their 
splendid display.
Yours truly,
Fred Price, Chem, E. 51 
Richard E. Smith, E.E. 51 
Richard C. Lyman, E.E. 51
by Joe Weinreich
0Recently, in Miami, Florida^ a 
judge got tired of warning a cer
tain gentleman about his repeated 
traffic violations. On the occasion 
of his third major offense the city 
of Miami was awarded a reprieve 
from the tyranny of his auto: his 
driver's license was revoked . . . 
for 35 years.
Only 62 of the 717 entering 
freshmen are veterans. In com
parison, last Junes graduating 
class contained some 400 veterans. 
The total enrollment of ex-serv
icemen this year, 1241, is about 
400 less than last; and some 800 
less than 46 when 2,100 vets an
swered roll call.
The total student enrollment for 
this year is 3315. This is only 65 
less than last falls registration.
It is exactly 300 short of September 47.
The recent near ties in the Na
tional and American baseball 
leagues caught the attention of 
one learned gentleman. Suspicious 
of such goings on he applied him
self intuitively, and came up with 
some startling results. The whole 
thing was mathematically impos
sible. It was a hoax therefore, a 
farce, a frame-up, a fixed affair. 
His reasoning was so exact that V 
he was able to identify all of the 
rascals responsible for the shame
ful situation. They were, the 
Pope, Lucky Luciano and Sammy 
Baugh.
Along a similar, serious slant 
comes the story of the mechanical 
engineering student who, in illus
trating a seminar talk on Explo
sive Riverts, riveted a steel plate 
firmly to a table top.
Tau Beta Pi made a student 1 
survey in 1937. They found that 
an overwhelming majority of stu
dents were against Saturday 
classes. Removal of the shop 
courses was also strongly opposed. 
(Since 37 all shop courses have 
been dropped, and most other 
courses have been purged of the 
practical.)
Another item revealed in the 
poll was that 74% were against 
instituting an honor system. Rea
son given was that too much em
phasis was put on grades at Car
negie, therefore, with an honor 
system of government, the dis
honest student would have the ad
vantage over others.
The three factors most respon
sible for choosing Tech over other 
schools were: reputation, location, 
and expenses.
WAA and Intramural Board, 
heres a suggestion. The Univer
sity of Texas, last year, experi
mented with womens touch foot
ball. The idea met with imme
diate success.
Fernando Lara, and Carnegie 
Techs soccer team, is peeved. Sev
eral weeks ago the Tartan carried 
a nice long coverage on one of the 
soccer games that Tech lost. This 
particular game happened to be 
decided in the closing minutes of 
the last period; the score was 3-2.
The last two sentences of the ar
ticle mentioned another game 
played the week before. This 
game was won by Tech, also by 
a one goal margin. Fernando is 
peeved because he bothered to 
kick that winning goal in the last 
minute of play.
High-sehoo! football is really 
rough. For example, take the 
Sharon High-New Castle game. 
One of Sharons halfbacks was a 
wiry 135 pounder. On one play 
he was, as the expression has it, 
smeared. When the rubble was 
cleared away, there he was, sit
ting on the ground, putting back 
on one of his shoes.
Something to see: Ballet Thea
tre. The group will bring to the 
Mosque some of the finest dancers 
in the world when it makes its 
one night stand on November 28. 
Featuring Nana Gollner, the 
troupe will present four numbers: 
Swan Lake, Billy the Kid, Helen 
of Troy, and Pas De Deux (from 
the Nutcracker Suite).

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949TA&WUV3
Open Letter From Pitt
November 1, 1949.
Dr. Robert E. Doherty, President 
.Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania 
Dear Dr. Doherty:
University of Pittsburgh officers, faculty, and student lead
ers regret exceedingly the incidents that took place on the Car
negie Tech campus yesterday (Monday) morning. As I said 
during our conference today the unauthorized student group 
that visited your campus did not exercise good judgment. Our 
students have no privilege to roam boisterously through your 
buildings, enter and disrupt classes, and be destructive of prop
erty.
At Pitt we want athletic victories and approve a reason
able celebration of these victories. Our celebrations must not be 
at the expense of our neighbors, on their property, or disturb 
their educational program.
Again I say we regret the incidents of Monday morning 
and trust that responsible leadership will prevent their recur
rence.
Very sincerely yours,
Theodore W. Biddle
Dean of men, University of Pittsburgh.
le Songs 
In New Album 
Now On Sale -
Orders are now being taken for 
the newly produced record al
bums of Carnegie Tech school 
songs. Kiltie bandsmen and 
members of the Mens Glee club 
are now busily engaged in 
handling the sale of albums on 
the camptis.
The recordings of Dear Old 
Tech, Fight For the Glory of 
Carnegie, The Skibo Song and 
The Carnegie Alma Mater were 
made two weeks ago in the Fine 
Arts Exhibition room. Reproduc
tions of the original transcriptions 
will be. played in Skibo during 
lunch periods, and orders may be 
placed at thus time with Kiltie 
salesmen.
Deliveries of the leatherette 
bound albums will start by De
cember 10. Arrangements can be 
made to have the records sent any
where within the limits of the 
United States.
Info5 Please!
Time: 12:20 a. in., Wednesday, 
November 10 (Tuesday night). 
Place: Forbes street near Beeler 
(Across from FPHA).
Event: Serious auto  no. 67 
streetcar accident.
If you have any information 
concerning the accident please 
contact John E. Steiner in the 
metallurgical engineering de
partment or call HI. 1-6321.
CIT Debate Squad 
Faces City Teams 
In First Round
Tech debaters have planned a 
full season this j'ear. On Tuesday, 
November 29, Tech will act as 
host for the local forensic activ
ity. Teams from Mount Mercy, 
Pitt, Duquesne, Westminster, and 
St. Vincents will participate.
Later in the season teams will 
travel to Brooklyn college, Uni
versity of Virginia, and Washing
ton and Jefferson college to par
ticipate in tournament debates. 
Tournamentand cup debates will 
also be held at Pitt and Mount 
Meyer.
Baron Elliot To Play 
For All-School Ball
Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society, has announced 
that the annual Military Ball will be held Saturday, December 3, in 
the mens gym from 9 p. m. until 1:00 a. m. Baron Elliot will pro
vide the music for the dance. This dance marks the first all-school 
formal of the season. *
Military uniforms have been 
declared proper formal dress for 
those who desire to wear them. 
Tickets will be $2.50 per couple 
and may be obtained in Skibo 
from 11:00 a. m. until 1:00 p. m. 
or from any advanced ROTC 
cadet. The dance committee has 
also announced that corsages will 
not be necessary.
Highlighting the evening will be 
the announcement and presenta
tion of an honorary cadet colonel 
and three lieutenant colonels. The 
four coeds eligible for these hon
ors are Linda Cowan, Lynn 
Gasche, Catherine Murphy, and 
Nancy Yaffee.
The four honorary officers were 
chosen by the entire cadet corps 
from 16 candidates nominated by 
Morewood Gardens, the seven 
sororities, and Citcom. The other 
candidates included: Vera Smith, 
Eleanor Gilmore, Ruth Graham, 
Vickie Klauber, Sally Lance, Anne 
Numrich, Barb Rautenberg, June 
Roth, Mary Jane Troop, Marjorie 
Waite, Alvia Weinberger, and Di
ana Westlake.
Scabbard and Blade will also 
make its fall call for new mem
bers during intermission.
Phi Kappa Fraternity will pre
sent the Joe Pash trophy to the 
most valuable Carnegie Tech 
football player of the season. The 
selection will be made by the 
players and coaching staff of the 
team.
Gil Dissen Named 
In Light Freshman
President
Election
tIwoynTF crToo attucwIo
Gil Dissen, left, president of the freshman class, holds his first 
conference with vice-president of engineering school, Dick Roman 
and treasurer, Pete Sherman. The other three officers were unable to 
attend.
yaFaITIR nurubTIR caraFwro
ROTC students selected the above girls to preside as honorary 
officers at the Scabbard and Blade ball to be held on December 3. 
Left to right, Lynn Gasche, Nancy Yaffee, Catherine Murphy, and 
Linda Cowan.
Delta SkulVs 4-Point Program 
Gains Council Confidence Vote
Two Day Period For Council Election;
No Date Certain For Inter fraternity Formal
On Wednesday Delta Skull fulfilled the requirement set down 
by Student Council last year that it justify its existence to Council. 
President Bob Kubiak delivered a four point program adopted by 
the junior mens honorary and received a, unanimous vote of con-----*----------------------1-----------------------? fidence.
In order to permit more stu
dents to vote in the Student Coun
cil elections, the polls will be open 
December 13 and 14. The Council 
of Fraternity Presidents was de
nied Saturday, January 7, as a 
date for the Mterfratemity 
formal.
Special Committee Formed 
Frank Witt and Lester Rosen
berg were appointed to a special 
committee to determine the rela
tionship between Council and the 
student religious organizations of 
campus. Since the Newman Club, 
Teknon, United World Federal
ists, and the YM & YMCAs are 
composed of CIT students and list 
events on Councils social calen
dar, it was thought they should 
follow all the White Book regula
tions.
Shortly after being called to 
Delta Skull, last years sopho
mores were faced with an ulti
matum. They were told to appear 
before Council on November 16 
and prove to the councilmen that 
the honorary was a necessary cam
pus function. A four point pro
gram to further certain school ac
tivities was adopted and presented. 
Impressive Record 
They sponsored the Homecom
ing dance, and have a representa
tive on a committee along with 
ODK and Mortar Board to draw 
up an assembly program that will 
appeal to a larger group of stu
dents. Also, they are working on 
a new system of calling that will 
use a list of activities contributed 
by prospective members. Point 
number four is the possibility of 
affiliating with a national junior 
mens honorary; they now are 
considering the Blue Key.
Since some students do not have 
any classes on Tuesday, when the 
polls are open from 11:15 to 1:45, 
December 13, in Administration 
hall, Margaret Morrison, and 
Skibo, there will be a poll in 
Skibo on Wednesday, December 
14, from 11:30 to 1:15 for the stu
dent council election.
Request Refused 
When the CFP learned that a 
location for the Interfraternity 
formal was unobtainable for Feb
ruary 25, they requested January 
7. Kappa Alpha Theta had sched
uled that date last spring, so 
Council refused CFPs request.
Dick Holl was delegated to 
group all Carnegie students going 
to or through certain cities on 
their way home for Christmas.
Election Notice
The regular fall election for 
Student Council representatives 
will be held on Tuesday, De
cember 13, and Wednesday, De
cember 14. ?
Any candidate must have a 
petition signed by himself and 
at least forty (40) full-time, 
undergraduate, day students 
from the college he is to repre
sent.
Petitions must be in the Office 
of the Dean of Men no later 
than 4:30 p. m. on Friday, De
cember 2. Petition blanks will 
be available in the same office 
beginning on Monday, Novem
ber 28.
The respective colleges and 
number of representatives to be 
elected from each are as fol
lows:
Engineering and Science7.
Fine ?\rts4.
Margaret Morrison4.
One non-voting representative 
is to be elected from the junior 
class of Margaret Morrison Car
negie College. She shall serve as 
assistant secretary during the 
first semester of her term.
(An undergraduate student 
who has never receivded a de
cree from any college).
J. R. Horsch 
Elections Chairman
Six Officers 
Conduct Rally
Gilbert Dissen, freshman civil 
engineer and varsity football 
squad member, was selected pres
ident of the class of 53 in the 
election held November 10. The 
announcement of freshman class 
officers was made at intermission 
of the Homecoming semi-formal 
dance.
Richard Roman, chemical engi
neering, was named vice president 
of the engineering college. Juliann 
Consentino, 49 Homecoming 
queen captured another honor in 
being elected as vice president 
of Fine Arts. Celestine Gilmore, a 
general studies student, was elect
ed vice president of Margaret 
Morrison.
Other Offices Filled 
The offices of secretary and 
treasurer were filled respectively 
by Marjorie Otterman, painting 
and design; and Peter Sherman, 
chemical engineering.^
Of approximately 725 eligible 
votes, only 268 cast ballots in 
the November 10 election. In the 
original election, which was nulified* by Student Council, because 
double votes were cast, 352 voted.
At a meeting held in conjunc
tion with the class organization 
committee last Thursday, the class 
officers of 53 were oriented as to 
their respective duties. They have 
since sponsored a pep rally which 
preceeded thp Grove City game 
last Friday night.
In Full Control 
Since Scimitars and Cwens lost 
official enforcement powers of 
freshmen regulations as of Home
coming, the officers have assumed 
that power. They are now con
sidering plans for another at
tempt at giving the tradition ex
ams to those freshman who for
merly failed to pass the test.'
Theme Set For 
Beaux Arts Ball
Grand Illusion Ball 
Features Costumes
Carnegies Beaux Arts Society 
has agreed upon a theme and is 
now in preparation for their an
nual ball which will be held on 
February 10th of this year. The 
ball will be called the Ball of 
the Grand Illusion.
Decorations will employ the ro
mantic and baroque styles of 
architecture from the Renaissance 
period combined with modern 
space concepts of exploded per
spective. These decorations will all 
be in black and white, with mir
rors adding to the concept of illu
sion.
Costumes Original
As usual, those who attend the 
ball are required to make their 
own costume and in accordance 
with the decorations these cos
tumes must be in black and white 
combined with a reflective ma
terial as much as possible. There 
is a wide range in choice for cos
tume styles extending from the 
Renaissance period to the extreme 
styles of modern art.
In connection with the costumes, 
an emperor and empress will be 
chosen by the Beaux Arts com
mittee on the basis of uniqueness 
of costume.
Food Also Medieval 
Food will be in the medieval 
tradition, and they are planning to 
use background music in the 
baroque and modern styles. As for 
the dance music, its hoped 
there will be two orchestrasin the north-south corridor, 
one in the large exhibition i 
Tickets for the ball will b 
sale after Christmas.
that 
. ne 
and 
oom. 
e on

---------------------------------------------------

4TAMAN
a
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949 1
Basketball Quintet Prepares 
For Opening With Steubenville
Theodore Only Man Named To Starting Post
By Cratsley With Season One Week Away
by Frank Carter
Resplendent in brand new uniforms and with a new coaching 
staff, Carnegie Techs 1949-50 basketball team will inaugurate an
other court season next Wednesday night in Skibo gymnasium. It 
will mark the earliest home opening date for a Tartan five in the
history of the sport at Carnegie.#----------------------------------------------------
For head coach Mel Crastey it 
will be the unveiling of two
cJLm.j. b.X^1B OY!YAM hJBG.DSJEE oUWJ? p
First Row(left to right)Carl Meyer, Mgr.; Bob McCullugh, Connie Hammann, Mike Theodore, 
Dick ONeill, Tom Craig, Hillary Holste.
Second RowMoe Fassinger, Asst. Coach; Kay Thompson, Tom Beck, Tasso Katselas, Jack 
Riehl, Len Bianchi, Mel Cratsley, Head Coach.
Civil Engineers 
Win IM Grid Title
Phi Kappa, ATO Lose Playoffs; 
Former Wins Consolation Contest
ASCE rolled to a 24-7 victory over Phi Kappa in the first play
off game for the school championship. In the next play-off, ASCE 
copped the title by defeating Alpha Tau Omega 31-24. In the third 
match the Phi Kaps took a 6-0 first quarter lead and were never \ 
headed, winning 27-18.
months of hard work. Cratsley 
and his assistant Moe Fassinger 
greeted the first turnout of candi
dates for basketball drills on Sep
tember 26. Since then he has been 
drilling a veteran squad in funda
mentals and running plays until 
the players knew them in their 
sleep, and scrimmaging some of 
the top flight professional teams 
in the Pittsburgh district.
Hopes High
Hopes on campus are running 
high that the basketball squad 
will be able to follow in the win
ning steps of the gridiron eleven. 
And if depth and experience mean 
anything, then the Plaid fans will 
have their first opportunity to 
watch a winning team in action 
since the 1939 intercollegiate 
champions.
Cratsley is so well stacked with 
guards and forwards that he hasn't 
even attempted to name his first 
team yet. Only captain Mike The
odore, Carnegies brilliant center, 
has nailed down a starting post.
' Plentiful Reserves
At forwards it will be Matsey, 
McCullugh, Hammann, and Craig, 
and at guards there are Jack 
Riehl, Tasso Katselas, Tom Beck, 
Len Bianchi and Kay Thompson. 
Dick ONeill and Hillary Holste 
will spell off Theodore.
Cratsley has no ideas of razzledazzling his opponents. On de* 
fense he will use a standard manto-man setup. His offense will 
utilize a straight forward weave 
around the pivot spot. The two 
guards will work the ball down 
the court with the forwards in the 
corners and the center at pivot.
No Platoon System
Although he is equipped to do 
so, Cratsley will not use a twoplatoon system of substitution. 
Last year, coach Adam Sanders 
two platoon style at W&J met with 
considerable success. It may be 
that the Tartan coach values such 
star performers as Theodore, 
Riehl, and Katselas too highly for 
team substitution.
Following the comparative 
breather opener with Steuben
ville next Wednesday, the Skibos 
must face their toughest schedule 
since before the war. Waynesburg, Westminster, and W&J, are 
proclaiming their 1949-50 squads 
as some of the greatest ever. Law
rence Tech, Iowa, Pitt, and Penn 
State perenially floor strong quin
tetssome of the finest in the 
country.
Marietta Gridders 
Select Tartans
Showing respect for the Car
negie Tech players who led the 
Skibos to a 48-7 victory over 
them, the Marietta College Pioneer 
gridders and coaches recently 
placed three Tartans on Mariet
tas all-opponent eleven, ballot
ing showed today.
In addition, three other Tar
tans made the second team and 
two more received mention in the 
voting.
End Fritz Wilson, Center Jim 
Trautman and Quarterback Bob 
Sommer were selected on the first 
team. Guard Floyd Wiseman and 
Halfbacks Johnie Luchok and 
Nick Simcic gained second team 
nominations, while Guard Vince 
Donato and Tackle Gerry Meyers 
were other Skibos to be mention
ed.
Last season, when Marietta up
set Carnegie, 21-7, End John 
Williamson was the only Carne
gie player to receive a first team 
berth.
Football Review
[Continued from page 2],
Carnegie  41, Bethany  6.
Within sixty seconds the Plaid 
eleven struck with their most ef
fective weapon in the person of 
Nick Simcic and started to roll up 
a score which amazed even the 
most optimistic of their followers. 
The venerable Simcic tallied again 
later in the contest and passed for 
still another score, but shared act
ual scoring honors with freshman 
halfback Elmer Metzger who ran 
up two scores.
Carnegie  28, St. Francis19. 
With Simcic once again paving the 
way, the Plaid gridders registered 
their first victory at home since 
before the war. The star back du
plicated his Bethany feat and the 
Tartan eleven coasted into vic
tory.
Carnegie  14, F&M14. Outmanned but not outfought, Dr. 
Bakers gridders put on their best 
defensive display of the year by 
stopping a determined Blue and 
White squad twice in the shadow 
of their own goad posts.
A two touchdown second period 
put the Tartans in command, but 
injuries and lack of manpower 
forced them to relinquish their 
lead in the last quarter.
Even in the closing moments the 
visiting Tech squad made a bid for 
victory, fojLit Wes Kenneys at
tempted field goal fell short.
Carnegie0, Case38. Serious
ly hampered by injuries to many 
key players, the Carnegie gridmen 
hit their low point of the season 
in bowing to an inspired Case 
Tech team. Seemingly vdid of 
their scoring punch, the Scots 
penetrated deep into enemy ter
ritory on several occasions only 
to have their attack wilt when pay 
dirt came in sight.
Carnegie  39, Washington &
Jefferson16. Rebounding from 
their previous drubbing, Dr. Bak
ers charges ran up an amazing 
32 point lead in the first half and 
played the rest of the game under 
wraps. Six Plaid ball carriers 
crossed the goal line in the rout 
that put the local team back on 
the winning trail.
Carnegie  48, Marietta  7.
Opening up their offense all the 
way, Carnegie had little trouble 
swamping an outclassed Marietta 
team.
With the outcome of the game 
never in doubt, the Tartan board 
of strategy once again relaxed 
their drives and rested the start
ing squad in the latter stages of 
the contest.
The game marked the first better-than-.500 season Carnegie had 
enjoyed since 1938.
Carnegie20, Lehigh48. Dick 
Gabriel, the states leading scor
er, proved too much for the Car
negie defense and led the powerful 
Lehigh juggernaut to an easy win 
much to the dismay of a home
coming crowd of some 7500.
A 27 point second period by the 
visitors left no doubt as to the 
eventual winner, but the Plaid 
struck back twice more in the 
second half before dropping their 
second match of the year.
Carnegie-12, Grove City-13.
A two touchdown lead at halftime proved inadequate as an in
spired Grove City squad came 
back to edge the Tartans in a 
disheartening battle on the muddy 
Forbes Field turf.
Nick Simcic once again proved 
to be the offensive standout de
spite an arm injury.
WAA Basketball
WAA varsity basketball prac
tice will start on Tuesday, No
vember 29, at 4:30 in the wom
ens gym. All girls who are in
terested are invited to come to 
this first meeting. The team 
which will be organized will 
play the other local teams of Pitt 
and PCW as well as such out of 
town colleges as Geneva.
CIT Harriers 
Upset Lehigh
Runners Close Season 
With Second Victory
Pulling one of the biggest up
sets in years, the Tartan cross 
country team defeated Lehigh in 
a dual meet on the Schenley park 
course November 12.
Cooper, Cockrell, Carman, and 
McElhaney came in second 
through fifth respectively in their 
finest collective showing of the 
season.
With the course in perfect shape 
and under ideal weather condi
tions, Murphy of Lehigh finished 
in the excellent time of 23:54 for 
the course.
Coach Praises Team
Commenting upon the just con
cluded cross country season, 
Coach Guy Halferty was greatly 
pleased with the performance of 
the team in the last meets and 
was high in his praise of several 
members of the squad.
Cooper was especiall* hot dur
ing the last part of the season 
and took a great part in Car
negies coming in third in the 
Tri-State Collegiate meet this past 
week. He came in third, edging out 
four men whom he had trailed in 
dual meets.
Gene Cockrell, captain of the 
team, was cited for his hard work 
and improvement in times as the 
season progressed. Plebe Bob Car
man won a regular place in the 
team by his good performance 
and more is expected of him in 
succeeding years.
Prospects Good
Prospects for next year look 
quite good, since Gene Cockrell 
is the only man who will grad
uate. The team will be strength
ened by transfer students Bloom 
from Geneva and Mitchell from 
Houston, who worked out with 
the team this year and will be 
eligible for intercoiegiate com
petition next year.
The team suffeerd a tough 
break when Jack Alberts, star of 
last season, dropped out of 
school. If he had run, several 
more meets probably would have 
been victories for Carnegie.
Playing a wide open brand of 
foo'tball, a defensively strong 
ASCE team held Phi Kappa to 
one touchdown. In the opening 
minutes of the game Phi Kappa 
scored on a long pass from Jack 
Collins to Bill Repovz and limited1 
ASCE to a single point the first 
quarter.
ASCE Explodes
In the opening minutes of the 
second quarter ASCE exploded 
with a first down, then a TD on 
a pass from Jack MacDonald to 
Dick Shober. Taking the ball on 
the kickoff Phi Kappa failed to 
gain ground, but after punting re
gained possession on a intercep
tion by Repovz. Seconds later 
Dick Shober intercepted and rac
ed 20 yards for the ASCE second 
tally. Phi Kappas passing ace, 
Jack Collins, again failed to pene
trate the strong passing defense 
of ASCE and the second quarter 
ended with ASCE leading 12-7.
In the third quarter ASCE mov
ed down the field for another 
TD. Dick Shober passed 30 yards 
to Jim Doak for a first down and 
on the next play MacDonald 
passed to Bob Henry for the tally.
Rally Smashed 
Phi Kappas hopes of rallying 
were soon smashed as MacDon
ald intercepted for ASCE. On the 
next play a 30 yard pass from 
MacDonald was incomplete, but 
interference was ruled against 
Phi Kappa on their one yard line. 
Two plays later a short pass to 
Henry accounted for the last tally 
of the game.
For the remainder of the third 
quarter and through the last 
quarter the defense on each team 
held ridigly. The one touchdown 
pass from MacDonald to Shober 
was recalled for backfield in mo
tion. Neither team could advance 
as repeated interceptions saw the 
ball changing hands rapidly. A 
threat by Phi Kappa in the last 
minute of play was broken up 
with an interception by Doak.
Close Decision 
In the second game the ATOs
matched ASCE point for point 
through the first two periods and 
at the half the score was tied 18- 
18. The third quarter found the 
ATOs offense held in check 
while the ASCE team garnered 7 
big points. John MacDonalds 
passing arm spelled the difference 
as the ASCE back converted to i 
Jim Doak for two TDs and to Bob 
Henry for another score. Wayne 
Ashbee put the ATOs back in the 
game in the last frame as he 
gathered in an ASCE punt and 
went all the way for a touch
down.
Yesterday afternoon the Civil 
Engineers were scheduled to rep
resent Carnegie in the annual bat** 
tie with the Univeristy of Pitts
burgh intramural champions here 
on the campus.
TNT became the first Tartan 
team to defeat the Pitt title hold
ers by turning the trick last fall 
with a 19-6 score.
IM Football Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUEwonlosttiedASCE ............................ 50120TX .................................. 420PiKA ............................ 330SAE ............................. 2404160FEDERAL LEAGUEwon losttiedATO ....................\___ 510202121DU ................................. 240FPHA ............................ 240P & D ........................ 150NATIONAL LEAGUEwonlosttied00112O304041
Volleyball Results
Betas over Beta Sigs 13-15, 15-7. 15-8;TX A over Sigma Nu15-13, 15-12;Delta over DU 15-13, 16-14; Newmanover Tau Delts A 15-12,, 15-13; PiKAover Raider 15-13, 15-13,15-4;Facultyover SAE -15. 16-14. 15-8; ASCE overTau Delts *'B 12-15, 15-12,15-5;Emanonover Metals Club 15-9,15-3;49-ers
over Citcom 15-7, 15-5,15-2;Raiders
over Newman 13-15, 15-3,, 15-6; SigmaNu over Beta Sigs 13-15, 15-12, 15-11: TX A over BeUs 15 8, 15-11: Gringoes over" ATO 15-S, 15-8;- Phi Kapsover TX "B 15-3, 15-fl: D. Dukes over PiKA 15-12, 16-14;

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949TA4WAIV5
Two things every i ^ 
college ma,n should know!
JLmm This is a psychology professor. 
Plays with mental blocks. Thought life 
tvas bed of neu -roses until he switched
to smooth-fitting "Manhattan" pajamas.
A/* These are "Manhattan Mattlounge pajamas. Right for siveet dreaming 
or loafing. Durable cotton, 
rayon, and cotton and ravon prints.
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
Booters Down Grove City 2-1 
For Fourth Win of Season
Closing the 1949 season with a hard-earned 2-1 victory over 
Grove City college, the Carnegie Tech soccer team, under the tute
lage of Coach Pat OConnor, experienced its best year since 1944. 
The win over the Grovers was the fourth success for the Tartan
booters and gave them a .500 rec-^---------------------------------------------------
ord for the season.
But for a few unfavorable 
breaks in two of the games lost, 
the Plaid team could have easily 
finished with better than their 
present 4-4 mark. Strangely 
enough, the local booters were 
better as a road team than they 
were as home performers.
Three of the four games played 
on foreign grounds resulted in 
Tartan victories, but not until the 
final game did the locals win a 
home engagement.
Although the outlook for a 
strong team next year is excep
tionally good, the services of sen
iors Bill deVos, captain and cen
ter, Chuck Clinton and Bill Cotter, 
goalies, and John Brown, a reserve 
lineman, will be sorely missed.
However, the return of Fresh
man fullbacks Hribar, Edson, and 
Wagner, and halfbacks Bushey, 
Richards and Wartengurg should 
give the Tartans a strong defen
sive set-up. Also back for action 
next season are linemen Burrey, 
Ball, Jenkins, Lipp Lara, Crowley, 
Kannee, Grisanti, Campbell, and 
Hasfura.
Coach OConnor attributes the 
teams suuccess this year to bet
ter than average interest in the 
sport. However, he feels that, if 
the experienced soccer players on 
campus who are not competing in 
varsity competition at present 
would come out for the team, 
Carnegie would have one of the 
best teams in college circles.
Dressing Room 
Unhappy Scene
A rather glum bunch of fathers 
gathered around the home teams 
dressing room beneath the Forbes 
Field stands last Saturday after
noon. They agreed with each 
other that it was a tough day to 
lose a football game.
Dr. Eddie Baker, wearing a 
grim and stoical expression, 
stepped into the corridor, accepted 
a few hasty handshakes, and 
gravely noted that We didnt de
serve to win. Inside there was 
little conversation among the 
chagrined players, many of whom 
were removing the Plaid for the 
last time.
There Is No Joy . . . 
Managers hurried about gather
ing together the odds and ends of 
equipment in an eifort to wind up 
their part of the job, while the 
director of athletics, Buddy 
Overend, said a few farewells.
One door down the hall pan
demonium had broken loose. 
Grove City, rejoicing over their 
most successful season in more 
than a decade, had pulled their 
biggest upset of the year.
Deserved To Win 
The visiting Wolverines had 
emerged from this same dressing 
room after the halftime quite 
different ball club from that 
which had entered. Playing their 
hearts out, they fought an uphill 
battle all the way and overcame 
what for a while looked like an 
insurmountable lead.
It was an old story though. The 
Frank Merriwell finish, the upset 
itself all added up. Football 
wouldnt be the sport that it is 
without them.
10 fer 10
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders 
ha>/e 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... 
absorb juices . . . reduce tongue bite ... 
give you the utmost in smoking pleasure. 
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) 
Special!/ selected imported briar Pipes. 
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L, 
Also Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar (il) Pipe 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders 1 & 2MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
oe nd tLJmG P ciee umXe 9 t4LD T,9mW9d F.0 RiLG ff
A U MiDICO PIPES N 0,W MADE Of 
PRE-WAR QUALITY IMPORTED 6RiA*
Bill Dorn
Here at the close of the most successful football season 
Carnegie fans have enjoyed since the days of gridiron glory in 
the late thirties, it seems quite proper to stop and review some 
of the facts which have contributed to the sudden reversal in 
the win and loss column.
Without a doubt the lions share of the credit must go to 
the very capable Dr. Eddie Baker, who tutored the Plaid squad 
through the past eight games. Together with his assistants, 
Eddie Hirschberg, A1 Irwin, and Walter Burns, he put together a 
grid machine which differed only in the lack of manpower from 
the famed outfits of the past.
Indicative of tlie doctors ability as a mentor is the bril
liant way in which his team rebounded from their decisive loss 
at the hands of Case Tech to climb back on the victory band
wagon. One need only look at the decided change in the style 
of play, however, to realize that with virtually the same ma
terial an entirely different team was being presented to the 
local fans by the new coaching regime.
Despite all this it still takes a minimum of eleven hard 
fighting men to produce a winner. All of which leads us to the 
quite prominent question of the annual award of the Joe Pash 
Memorial Trophy.
Number one candidate for the prized possession is, of course, 
last years winner, Nick Simcic. Simcic has been outstanding in 
every sense of the word throughout the entire schedule. A hard 
runner with one of the better passing arms on the squad, the 
likeable junior engineer has been a defensive standout all year.
It is, though, his incessant drive and striking consistency 
which have marked him as a star offensive threat to the Tartan 
opposition. The highest scorer on the squad, he has set up in
numerable other touchdowns which never go down in the 
records.
In the line Gerry Meyers appeal's as a standout. Defen
sively he has been the bag man in the stout Carnegie forward 
wall.
Johnny Luchok, Bobby Sommer, Lou Fougere, Fritz Wil
son, and Elmer Metzger among others deserve notice in any 
discussion involving the outstanding player.
At any rate, the decision lies with the football squad itself. 
They will make their choice at their banquet on November 29 
and await the final outcome at the Military Ball on December 3. 
Back In 38
It might well be noted that the last winning basketball 
season, as well as football, came in 1938. It was then that Car
negie, sparked by the scoring power of Mel Cratslev, registered 
12 wins and 7 defeats while winning the Eastern Intercollegiate 
Basketball championship.
The league, which included Pitt, Georgetown, Temple, Penn 
State, and West Virginia, dissolved immediately thereafter and 
Carnegie started its downward path.
Now it appears that 1949 may break the long basketball 
famine just as it has done for the gridmen. The same Mel Cratsley who sparked the last winning Plaid team is now head coach 
at his alma mater and has been grooming his charges since Sep
tember for their opener next Tuesday with Steubenville.
The Steubenville contest figures to be a rather easy tuneup 
for the Plaid five before they reach the tough spots in the sched
ule. The remainder of the games, however, all appear as even 
matches at the best.
Cratslev has a wealth of talent at his disposal headed by 
the now famous Mike Theodore. The big, ex-Wilmerding ath
lete has had trouble with injuries for quite a while now but is 
determined to lead the team which he will captain to their 
share of victories.
Only Marty Chetlin is missing from last years array of var
sity candidates while Tasso Katselas, and Lenny Bianclii, both 
letter winners from previous years, have made their appearance 
felt once more.
Cratslev, in the tradition of the coaching profession,* re
fuses to become too optimistic over the future. Nevertheless, 
it seems that nothing short of a winning basketball season is in 
the offing. The first few games should tell the story.
Last of Grid Greats
Pittsburgh newspapers carried the sad news that big George 
Muha,-the last of the Carnegie gridiron greats, is seriously ill 
with Hodgkins disease.
The burly running mate of Merle Condit tallied the Plaid 
touchdown in the 3939 Sugar Bowl and was a member of the 
East team in the annual Shrine Bowl game in 1940.
He has dropped from his playing weight of well over 200 
to 140. A benefit football game was staged recently by his 
friends in McKees Rocks where he coached semi-professional 
teams for many years after his graduation from the school of 
engineering.
Varsity Basketball Squad
NameYearHeightWeightTheodore, Michael....Sr.6-2195Riehl, Jack ..........6-0160
Matsey, Joseph ...... . Sr.6-3^175
Katselas, Tasso ....6-1160
Hammann, Conrad... .Jr.6-3185
McCullugh, Robert___Jr.6-1180
Bianci, Leonard .. .. . Jr.6-1185
ONeil, Richard .... Soph.6-5178
Beck, Thomas ......... Soph.5-11173
Craig, Thomas .... Frosh6-11/2180
Thompson, Ronald ..Soph.6-1165
Holste, Hilary ......... Soph.6-3170
Years on
AgeCIT squadHigh School
223Wilmerding
213St. Justin
203McKees Rocks
222East Pittsburgh
202Martinsburg, W. Va.
202Central Catholic
Portland, Ore.
211Monessen High
191St. Vincent Prep.
191North Catholic
170East McKeesport
190Penn Township
180Arnold High

---------------------------------------------------

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that in a
coast-to-coast test of hundreds of men and women 
who smoked Camels  and only Camels  for 30 
consecutive days, noted throat -specialists, making 
weekly examinations, reported
DUE TO SMOKING
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949
Joe Pash Memorial Trophy 
To Be Awarded At ROTC Ball
For the fourth consecutive year the Joe Pash memorial trophy 
will be awarded to Carnegie's outstanding football player of the 
year.
To those of you \vho know the story of Joe Pash this announce
ment will mean muchto those^ 
of you who dontread on!
Joe Pash was a former CIT 
gridiron star. He was a little guv. 
who weighed less thau 155 pounds.
He was a Phi Kap who gradu
ated in mechanical engineering in 
December, 1942. and entered ac
tive duty with the navy on Feb
ruary 1943.
Missing In Action 
Attaining the rank of lieuten
ant j.g., he was assigned to duty 
aboard the submarine Lagarta.
Shortly afterwards in Operation 
South Pacific he and all his ship
mates were, declared missing in 
action. That's the way the book 
reads.
But to everyone who knew 
him, Joe Pash was something 
morehe was something big de
spite his meager 155 pounds. One 
of his former coaches, Walter 
Burns, called him one of the fast
est men ever to play on the var
sity football squad. To his team
mates, he wras a player's play
er. To everyone he was as regu
lar as they come.
Fourth Award 
To perpetuate his memory his 
fraternity brothers inaugurated 
the Joe Pash memorial trophy.
Maintained by Phi Kappa, the 
trophy is insciibed each year with 
the name of the player who was 
voted most outstanding by the 
football coaching staff and his 
team mates. To date the trophy 
bears three names: Ben Baklarz 
46, C. B. Groomes 47, and Nick 
Simcic 48. The recipient of the 
award each year is presented with 
a miniature of the trophy.
This years balloting will occur 
at the annual varsity football ban
quet on November 29. The win
ners name will be announced at 
the Military Ball on December 3.
TCU Victory 
Puts Skkls 
Grove City Gome To Dopesters
All-League 
Teams Chosen
ASCE Places Three; 
Plii Kaps, ATOs Listed
Last wTeek the managers of the 
Intramural football team cast bal
lots for the selection of three AllLeague teams.
American Society of Civil En
gineers, displaying more interest 
in intramurals than ever before 
and having cinched the school 
championship, placed three men 
in the backfield of the American 
League All Star lineup.
ASCE brilliant passing star, 
John MacDonald, found able re
ceivers in Dick and Leo Schober 
and the three combined to give 
ASCE its superior aerial offensive.
Phi Kappa, the National League 
winners and runner ups to ASCE, 
also rated three men on the Na
tional league team. Jack Collins 
spearheaded the Phi Kaps attack 
this year and teamed with Bill 
Repovz and Bill Trimble for the 
most dangerous passing combina
tion in the National League.
The Federal League all star 
lineup included two men from the 
ATO squad, Wayne Ashbee and 
Bob Albright. Albrights fine de
fensive play earned him the cen
ter position on the team. Ashbee, 
always a threat offensively, pro
vided the punch the ATO attack 
needed wTith his effective passing 
and broken field running.
\ll-lntf ramiii-al Football TeamA.
Position American
End ........................................... Johnson, PiKA
Center ...................................... Costa, PiKA
End ........................................... Allan, D. Dukes
Back ........................................ MacDonald, ASCE
Back ........................................ L. Schober, ASCE
Back ........................................ D. Schober, ASCE
National 
Trimble, Phi Kap 
Colucci, Citcom 
Latterman, BSR 
Collins, Phi Kap 
Andrews, Newman 
Repovz, Phi Kap
Federal 
Witt, Emanon 
Albright, ATO 
Garver, KS 
Ashbee, ATO 
Holthaus, SN 
Barr, DU
[Continued from page 1] 
runs had it not been for the mud 
laden field. After 24 minutes of 
play, though, the Tartans finally 
broke the scoreless duel.
Bobby Sommer whipped a 56 
yard aerial to Fritz Wilson on the 
enemy 26. Simcic then hit Luchok 
with another pass on the 19 and 
Luchok in turn pitched to Wilson 
again on the goal for the score.
Passes Pan Out
With time running out rapidly, 
the Plaid registered again. Luchok 
gained 26 yards around left end 
to the Grove City 42 and Quent 
Holtz, making his sole appear
ance, completed a 40 yard pass to 
the same back on the two.
Simcic came off the bench and 
galloped around right end to go 
over standing up.
Grove Citys passing attack was 
good for but three completions in 
15 attempts. Two of these, how
ever, led to scores.
On the fifth play of the second 
half Foster hit Ned Hamilton on 
the Tech 12 for a 41 yard gain. 
Six plays later Jack Spratt smack
ed over for the tally. Dickson 
converted.
Stopped Twice
Two more Wolverine penetra
tions into the Scots territory were 
halted by pass interceptions on 
the part of Gil Dissen and Bobby 
Sommer.
With less than five minutes re
maining, the Grovers scored from 
35 yards out. It was then that 
Foster fired a jump pass to Bish 
who immediately lateralled out 
to Hamilton and the veteran end 
scampered untouched to the goal.
Dicksons attempted place kick 
was blocked by Fritz Wilson, but 
the damage was done.
The eyes of Texas are upon 
you
Youll never get away . .
And they didnt. Fifteen football 
yogis saw their victory hopes be
come pipe dreams as the mighty 
Texas Longhorns went down to 
defeat at the hands of Texas 
Christian university.
It took a Southerner, however, 
to win the contest. Steve Broady, 
1051 Morewood Ave., a math ma
jor from Baltimore, Md., call
ed the T.C.U. victory and all the 
other victories correctly to walk 
off with the Frank Medico smok
ers kit. Broady explained his vic
tory as being purely mathematical, 
but believes that his correct pre
diction of the Texas tilt may have 
been the result of a compensat
ing error.
William Scheffy also called ev
ery game correctly but lost out 
to Broady on judgment of closest 
scores.
Biggest laugh of the contest was 
provided by a gentleman who 
picked every game correctly with 
one exception. In the Lehigh-Tech 
tussle, this misguided picked Tech 
to win 1-0 (a pitchers battle no 
doubt).
This was the final Tartan foot
ball contest of the season. More 
than five hundred entries were 
received during the contest. The 
Frank Medico pipe kits which 
were awarded to the winner of 
each weeks contest went* to Cal 
Siffert, Ed Yorkgitis, Santo Bertuzzi, and Steve Broady.
All the winners have stored 
away their crystal balls until 
next year. Reliable sources in
form us, however, that for a tin 
of pipe tobacco Bertuzzi will try 
his hand at basketball predic* tions.
Honorable Mention: EndsEmmer (DD), Christopher (TX), Doak (ASCE), Winnick (Tau Delts), 
Paulick (DD), Scheffler (DD), Devlin (Delt), Yorkg itis (Newman), Shaver (Betas), Keiller (Citcom), 
Kessel (DU), Katsafanas (Emanon), Binder (FPHA) , Franceschi (P&D). f
CentersSolitar (Tau Delts), Rainsaelo, (SAE ), Varan (Phi Kap), Mansfield (FPHA), Oxley (DU), 
Bright (Emanon).
BacksMcKibbin (PiKA), De Jean (DD), Mathews (TX), Oxley (TX), Bishop (Delts), DAgostino 
(Phi Kap), Gierl (Delts), Pyle (Delts), Fields (KS), Pienkoski (Emanon), R. Lee (FPHA), McBeth, 
(P&D), Motter (KS), Arnold (DU), Gilliland (DU).

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949TA WPA IV7
yanwcanuFs >wwF caIaFTbuaF
Presirent Robert E. Doherty crowns Julie Cosentino as Home
coming Queen at Carnegie Day exercises. Looking on are attendant 
Nancy Yaffee, left, crown bearer Marion Waller, and president
elect Warner. Lindy Hill, the other attendant, was unable to at
tend the crowning.
Low Fares
THANKSGIVING 
IS HOM 
TIME
ihn6.
N. Y......
6a........
Pa. ..
Mass......
Buffalo, N. Y......
, III......
Cleveland, Ohio ..
Dayton, Ohio__
Mich.......
Harrisburg, Pa___
N. Y........
Miami, Fla...........
Newark, K. J........
New York, N. Y.... 
Philadelphia, Pa...
Louis, Mo........
Steubenville, Ohio . 
Troy, N. Y............
$0.4
12 5
6.10
||.n
!/YM
8/16
2-45
4.80 
5.35 
4e6a
685
22-50
beYM
8.00
6-40
1065
V 0
i}.40
Plus V. S. Tax 
B<g EXTRA Savings on Round Trip
Frequent Comfortable Dependable
Schedules Coaches  Service
sIwRya>Fl bwInuFTr
Liberty Avenue at Grant Street 
Phone GRant 1,5700
GREYHOUN
Big Weekend Rings The Bell
With Grad. Student Events/
By Joe Weinreich, Features Editor
From start to finish ... it was a good homecoming. For once 
the word had a meaning, as hundreds of grads thronged to witness 
the parade of events. What they saw pleased them; they said so.
On the steps of the gym, after the Coronation and Call Day 
program one gentleman expound-*----------------------------------------------------
ed, What a magnificent affair.
Nor was he far from wrong. 
Planned and executed entirely by 
students, under Charles Koesters 
direction, it was fast moving, and 
jam packed with color.
At Ease
Wes Kenney and Collette Crawput everyone at ease with a 
witty interpretation of their m. c. 
duties. After a few masterfully 
played selections by the Kiltie 
Band, calls were made to five 
honoraries, and scholarship awards 
were made.
What everyone had really gath
ered to see came next, the Coro
nation of the Queen, lovely Julie 
Cosentino. Drs. Doherty and War
ner shared the honors; the former 
won the toss to see who would 
actually do the crowning.
Stare For Stare
The Coronation was perhaps the 
highlight of the entire week-end. 
Rimsky-Korsakovs, Procession of 
Nobles, set the scene as little 
Miss Waller, the two year old 
crownbearer, preceded the Queen 
and her court, made up of Nancy 
Yaffee and Lindy Hill. The young
ster showed as much wide-eyed 
interest in her audience as it did 
towards her. She returned stare 
for stare as she strolled, alone, 
down the aisle.
That night Thistle Hall was 
jammed as a good sized turnout 
danced to Jack Purcells music. 
The dance was sponsored by Citcom Clan.
Some indication of the number 
of visitors was given at the Alumni 
luncheon on Saturday. They filled 
471 places; others were turned 
away at the door for lack of 
space.
Hungry For Upset
Saturday afternoon saw Carne
gie lose to a savage Lehigh team. 
Everyone commented that this was 
inevitable, but the crowd of 7,500 
hadnt gathered to watch the in
evitable. They were hungry for 
an upset. Had it materialized the 
celebration would have been one 
for Pitt to remember.
Ray McKinley helped smooth 
the shock of defeat that evening 
with his Long Way From St. 
Louis, and a modernized version 
of Down the Road Apiece.* The 
dance was well attended; dancing 
was difficult.
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OUR
HAMBURGERS
nJ?. 0D^ 100k gWL. S..4 
>e oe si,.Lmv.mD mBg.XD.?
LARGE MILK SHAKES
nJ?. 0D^ gWL. 0^iE. 
vEG
RODGERS
Dairy Stores
VYMA taIhwo obIwwb 
F.JL hiUW.D
!QOY cwFbwI TpwF>w 
F.JL cLJj
A!O! HTrF>b obIwwb 
o^J?&B?.
Other stores downtown
Sigma Nu First
During intermission Sigma Nu 
carried away first prize for fra
ternity house decorations; Alpha 
Tau Omega took second prize. A 
hospital train, full of bandaged 
and bruised Lehigh players, 
rammed its way into first place 
for the Sigma Nus. For ATO it 
was a crew of prying, blasting 
bridge wreckers.
Dick Shaffer and his Home
coming committee did their job 
well. The Kiltie Band almost stole 
the show from Mr. Gabriel dur
ing their half-time maneuvers. 
But the real hero of homecoming 
is going unsung; no-one knows 
who he is. Hes the fellow who 
made the weather arrangements 
so that the usual homecoming rain 
came a day too late.
Calls
Called by Alpha Phi Omega for 
outstanding service: William
Clarke, Ben Schnelle, Joseph 
Weinreich. Charles Vaughan, Rich
ard Lyman, Richard Cutkosky, Jo
seph Pecenka, and William Faust.
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
mens activity honorary, called
Lester Rosenberg.
Pi Mu Epsilon, mathematical 
honorary, called the following: H. 
Corben, E. Creutz, I. Estermann, 
R. Meacham, R. Murphy, R. Rarr, 
E. Pugh, D. Rosenblatt, H. Simon, 
E. Williams, D. Beaumariage, L. 
Canjar, C. Chang, J. Datesh, S. 
Foner, C. Friedrich, R. Hadley, R. 
Hendrickron, R. Meussner. S. Moglewer, J. Pittenger, D. Schroeder, 
V. Senecal, W. Gall, R. Peterson, 
G. Pugh, W. Sheffy, K. Ward, F. 
Witt, D. Woods, E. Cook, W. Dorn, 
D. Geipel, and J. Nodvik.
Nodvik is a sophomore and is 
probably the only student ever to 
be called to Pi Mu Epsilon in his 
second year.
National journalistic fraternity, 
Pi Delta Epsilon made its call: 
J. Connor, A. Dickson, W. Dorn, 
L. Ehni, B. Epstein, D. Ervin, V. 
Gorman, R. Holl, W. McBeth. N. 
Rosfeld, K. Rudy, L. Steinberg, 
and J. Weinreich.
Tau Beta Pi, the engineering 
scholastic honorary, called: sen
iors A. Dickson, W. Scheffy; J. 
Buchan, D. Dague, J. Balosh, L. 
Shaffer, J. Biewener, R. Peterson, 
J. Collins, R. Albright, F. Becker, 
D. Banks, C. Gerding, H. Sine, H. 
Watrous; honorary juniors, W. 
Rouleau, R. Mallory, F. Friedlander; and evening students, F. 
Amuso, J. Fawcett, M. Gittens, 
D. Noll, and J. Mink.
Beta Sigma Rho was awarded 
the Council of Fraternity Presi
dents scholarship cup.
Panhellenic Association schol
arship cup was given to Delta 
Delta Delta. Mortar Boards 
Award for the highest individual 
freshman factor wras wron bv DoorT>sybwI/hTrr caFbwob
Both freshman and sophomore teams appear to be at a stand* 
still in this picture as they balance the huge slaughter ball in the 
Saturday morning homecoming contest. The struggle ended in a 2-2 
deadlock with only minor injuries being suffered by both teams.
Julie Cosentino Twice Honored 
During Homecoming Program
Its been a long time since a freshman girl has taken Carnegie 
Techs campus by such storm as has our pretty little 1949 Home 
coming Queen.
Coming to Carnegie this fall with an established high school 
scholastic reputation, Julie Cosen ?
tino lost little time in adding 
beauty and popularity to her 
known record on CITs campus.
Doubly Honored
At Homecoming Julie was 
crowned freshman queen to reign 
over the events of the week-end, 
and then on Saturday night she 
was announced as vice-president 
of Fine Arts.
school operetta. She is now a 
member of the North Hills Wo
mens Musical club.
As any girl would be, Julie is 
very happy about all the wonder
ful things that have happened to 
her here at Carnegie.
Everybody's Crazy 
Julie heard a lot of good com
ments on Carnegies music depart
ment while she was in high school.Julie is majoring in voice at j Now that she has had a chance 
Cai negie and hopes to sing in to see for herself what it is like, 
light opera after graduation. j ay she can say is that she is just 
While in West View High School, crazy about the school. And 
Julie was a member of the Na-! judging from two of the recent 
tional honor society, the school 1 elections, everybodys just crazy 
chorus, and participated in the 1 about Julie too!
49 Homecoming Magnificent Affair

---------------------------------------------------

V
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS
Everybody talks about PLEASURE, but 
only ONE cigarette has really done something about it. 
That cigarette is aGrorv eCiirty
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved . 
definitely less irritating, definitely milder,  
than any other leading brand. fcHH 
NO OTHER CIGARETTE 
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
YOU'LL BE GLAD TOMORROW 
YOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRISTODAY!
TAMANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949
Union Entertained 
27,500 Last Year
If the Carnegie Union was a business concern it could certainly 
be classified as successful. Last year the total attendance was around 
27,500.
S. BINSTOCK
KwHwrwIod umXe
Your Credit Jewelers 
VCMf tiLS.B oDe oce O/!!AV
OPEN EVERY EVENING
For a Fine Place To Eat 
You Just Cant Beat
THE COLLEGE SPOON
LOCATED AT 
CRAIG AND FORBES
ta>I hTIhwIo ba 
owIpw Ra>
If Youre Particular, See the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949TAWAN9
CHEST CLEANUP WEEK. From
49 Campus Chest 
Far Short Of Goal
Attempts To Raise Additional Funds
Must Violate One Solicitation Policy
Carnegie Tech has fallen far short of its expected Campus Chest 
quota for 1949. The student committee members have been investi
gating many suggested methods for raising additional funds, but none 
of these can be carried out without violating the most important 
reason for having a Chest organi-4----------------------------------------------------
zation on the Tech campus, that 
is, one and only one solicitation of 
funds during the school year.
However, organized charities 
have taken a two-way beating 
during the last two months, and 
the need for every contributing 
group to meet its quota or over
subscribe is desperate.
Situation Critical
The disturbing situation which 
faces all of us is that people who 
ordinarily would contribute money 
to help others now find themselves 
looking up to charities for aid. 
Less money must be used to help 
more people at a compromised 
standard unless groups such as 
our own campus make a success 
of federated giving.
Equally disturbing to Tech stu
dents should be the fact that PCW, 
Mount Mercy, Duquesne, and the 
public schools have gone well 
over goals set higher than at Tech. 
Pitt, with its high percentage of 
commuting students, has outdone 
our student body by nearly twen
ty-five percent per person.
Contributions Low
Preliminary tabulations by the 
Chest Committee indicate that 
fewer than seventy-five percent 
of the student body members 
made any contribution at all, and 
less than a third of these gave 
the $2.00 quota or more.
 In order to allow those persons 
to contribute who either were ab
sent when their class was solicited, 
or were not contacted because of 
schedule irregularities, the week 
following Thanksgiving vacation 
has been declared CAMPUS
November 28 to December 2, en
velopes and pledge cards will be 
available in the Deans Office, the 
Cashiers Office, Skibo, The Inn, 
and the Grill.
These envelopes, when filled, 
should be turned in to the Cash
iers Office or to Mr. David in the 
Deans Office.
The Committee announcement 
concludes by stating we hope 
that every student who has not 
already contributed will help Car
negie Tech to regain its position 
as Pittsburghs most community
conscious college by giving as 
much as they are able to the Cam
pus Chest.
Citcom Holds 
Twirp Dance
Theme Calls Tomorrow 
4Leap Year For A Day9
Citcom Clan will sponsor a 
Twirp Dance tomorrow evening, 
8 to 12 p. m., at Carnegie Inn, 
featuring Don Belmonts combo. 
Leap Year for a Day will be 
the theme of the dance.
The girls will reverse social 
custom by asking the boys, and 
by buying the tickets at $1.50 per 
couple.
* Tickets for the dance are being 
sold by Clan members, and ar
rangements have been made for 
tickets to be sold at the door.
Clan girls have handled dec
orations and intermission enter
tainment for the informal affair.
Vnivtrtity Store 
Atkttu, Go.
Plus 1 State Tar
Day after day at the Univer
sity Store in Athens, Georgia, 
as in college shops through
out the country, you can 
always find University of 
Georgia students and ice-cold 
Coca-Cola. For with students 
everywhere, frosty ice-cold 
Coca-Cola is the favorite 
drinkCoke belongs.
Ask for it either way . .. both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
habbrwl UNDER T>byaIubR at byw cacT/carT canNTFR hR 
Coco-Cola Bottling: Co. of Pa., Pittsburgh, Pa.
_ OY!Yd b^9 ciXJ/ciEJ civgJm&
TBP Questions 
Eligibility Of 
IA Students
Because of the reorganization 
of the industry administration 
department last year, Tau Beta Pi, 
engineering honorary, is facing 
the question of whether or not to 
consider the IA students as en
gineers.
Under the new setup, all IA 
students who graduate after 1950 
will not be considered as engi
neering students. The Tau Beta 
Pi constitution specifies that all 
members must be enrolled in a 
college of engineering.
While this problem did not af
fect the past election, it will af
fect the spring election. Several 
meetings have been held in an 
attempt to solve the problem, but 
no decision has been reached as 
yet.
, According to George Pugh, 
president, certain -students who 
are not technically engineering 
students may be pledged if they 
are passed by a three-quarters 
vote of the chapter and by a sev
en-eighths vote of the advisory 
board. Beside this, a letter must 
be written to the national organ
ization showing that the proposed 
students are engaged in a cur
riculum which is essentially of 
an engineering nature. *
A letter is being written which 
will be sent to all active mem
bers of the honorary in an attempt 
to clarify the problem and to reg
ister the vote of each member.
SAE Sponsors 
Talk Tonight 
On Vitameter
The Vitameter, a device for in
creasing the power of auto en
gines, will be the subject of a talk 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh sec
tion of the Society of Automotive 
Engineers. Mr. C. H. Van Hartesveldt, vice president of the 
Thompson Vitameter corporation, 
will speak at the meeting tonight 
at 8:00 in the Mellon Institute.
Used during the war to give 
short spurts of extra power to 
airplane engines, the principle of 
the idea is the use of a combina
tion of water, alcohol, and lead 
added to the fuel mixture for 
short periods of time.
The Thompson Vitameter cor
poration, which is developing the 
idea, is the manufacturer of the 
largest valves in the world and 
the maker of parts for jet engines.
Recent Grad Wins 
ASCE Membership
Thomas E. Stelson, recent grad
uate of Carnegie Tech, has been 
awarded a junior membership in 
the American Society of Civil En
gineers. The annual award was 
made to Stelson in recognition of 
his having the highest rating in 
scholastic work, personality, and 
possibilities for development into 
a successful engineer.
This Carnegie graduate was one 
of six students in the nation to 
win graduate fellowships from 
Tau Beta Pi, national engineering 
honor society. Stelson will do 
graduate work at Carnegie Tech 
this year.
IwFb T bRNwHIubwI 
10*
A DAY
YM/?&VM ?J&B VeAM
AmericanTypewrifer Co.
Convenient Parking A 4 A4 A
OO Hii? oDe He 1-1U1C
Nancy Callaway, left, and Mary Ellen Smith unveil their find, 
Endsley Collette, on the elevator at Morewood Gardens.
* * * * * * 
Fabulous Situation 
A Man At Morewood
HE is there! HE has been there for nineteen years! HE is living 
at Morewood Gardens HE is the son of Endsley Collett who keeps 
Morewood Gardens one of the most beautiful womens dormitory 
in the country. HE is ndsley Collett, Jr.
Fabulous as it may seem, this4- 
junior chemical engineer has the 
distinction of breathing the same 
air as the fair damsels of More
wood. He has the freedom to come 
and go at Morewood at any hour 
without setting off the alarms.
Many a young male around cam
pus may well envy him, sur
rounded by 355 fair beauties.
No Rose Bed
The life of a male Morewoodite 
isnt all its cracked up to be.
Once as Endsley was leaving for 
class, he was completely blinded 
by a shower of dust coming from 
higher altitudes. The deluge was 
caused by a sixth floor co-ed shak
ing her rugs. He recovered his 
sight just in time to dodge a de
scending coke bottle.
His pet peeve is the girl who 
suddenly discovers that fifteeen 
cents doesnt quite buy a pack of 
cigarettes, or that the coke ma
chine wont dispense without that 
extra penny. Who do the girls 
turn to for the necessary change?
Why to the man-in-the-house,
Endsley.
Endsley Rescues
Many is the time he has come 
to the rescue with a tithe of his 
hard earned change, never to see 
the little coins again. He doesnY 
think the girls are dishonest, just 
forgetful.
Hockey plays an important part 
in his outside activities. He is a 
member of the Pittsburgh Ama
teur Hockey League and spends 
many hours at Duquesne Gardens 
watching the Hornets play. Not 
limited to one sport, he played on 
Emanons winning socker team 
last year. If you like the athletic 
type, girls, he has everything in 
his five-foot-ten build.
His possibilities at Morewood 
may be practically unlimited, but 
bashful Endsley insists that his 
interests are elsewhere. A little 
persuasion might change his mind 
though, for he says that, Tech 
girls are more dWn-to-earth than 
most college girls.
Top Rank Students 
Receive Awards
Highest ranking students in the 
College of Engineering and Sci
ence, the College of Fine Arts, and 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College traditionally are given 
special recognition for their out
standing scholastic achievement.
This year student^ so honored 
received, for the first time, the 
handsome parchment certificate 
signed by President Doherty, the 
Dean of their college, and the 
Chairman of the Committee on 
Financial Aid for Student, Dean 
James A. Dickinson. In addition, 
Founders scholars receive special 
consideration from the scholarship 
committee if they have applied 
previously for financial assistance.
Founders scholars and recipients 
of freshman scholarships are re
minded that their certificates may 
Be picked up at the offices of the 
Deans of their respective colleges.
Lectures Held
By YM & WHA
Current Interest Topics 
Include Jazz, Books
Lectures and discussion groups 
on subjects of current interest 
will be offered to the public this 
week by the Isaac Seder Educa
tional Center of the YM&WHA, 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue, Oakland. 
All activities begin at 8:15 on the 
evenings noted and are open to 
the public without charge.
On Monday. November 14, Pro
fessor Donald W. Goodfellow of 
Carnegie will talk on American 
Literature in the Jazz Age: Sin 
and Syncopation as Seen by Jo
seph Hergesheimer, Vina Delmar, 
and Anita Loos. Books to be dis
cussed are Bad Girl, Gentle
men Prefer Blondes, The Party 
Dress, and others.
Bible Discussed
Dr. Solomon B. Freehof, Rabbi 
of the Rodef Shalom Congrega
tion and nationally distinguished 
lecturer and literary critic, will 
talk on The Bible as Literature 
on Wednesday evening, November 
16. What the Bible can mean for 
modem readers will be the theme 
of Dr. Freehofs lecture.
Professor R. E. Slesinger of the 
Department of Economics of the 
University of Pittsburgh will talk 
on Whats to Stop a Depression 
with the current problems discus
sion group on Wednesday evening, 
November 16.
Folk Music Presented
Vivien Richman, noted singer 
and authority on folk music, will 
given an illustrated lecture on 
Folk Music and Folk Songs: The 
Melting Pot of Music on Thurs
day, November 17. She will sing 
and discuss music that traveled 
from the Old WorldRussian, 
Yiddish, Polish, and Frenchto 
add new flavor to our folk songs.
Cano Seeks 
Cooperation 
For Fall Issue
Cano, CIT outlet for creative 
writing, is seeking campus coop
eration to publish its fall edition.
Since the magazine has no spe
cific publication dates there are 
no deadlines to meet. According 
to editor Robert Cordray, it is 
published by a staff interested 
only in finding significant and 
provocative articlesnot in the 
activities phase of publications.
Interested students are request
ed to bring material to the Cano 
offices, third floor of the Carne
gie Union, Monday evenings at 
8:00 p. m.

---------------------------------------------------

10TA4OT*ANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949
Medical Setup 
Still Growing
services.
Student Chorus 
And Symphony 
Give Program
Dr. Dorian Will Direct;
String Ensemble Plays
Later With Andriasson
Two concerts will be presented 
by the music department during 
the early part of December. The 
first of these will be the Student 
Symphony and Chorus under the 
direction of Dr. Dorian on De
cember 6, at 8:15 p. m., in Car
negie Music Hall.
This program will include 
Iphegenie in Aulis, by Gluck; 
the Polovetsian Dances, by Bo
rodin; the Concerto for Violin 
and Orchestra, by Lalo; and 
Strauss Death and Transfigura
tion. The cello solo in the Lalo 
concerto will be performed by 
^mer Jeremias, under the direcFor You
The Shelton and Biltomore 
hotels have offered their serv
ices to Carnegie Tech students 
that may have occasion to spend 
a week-end in New York. Spec
ial year-rouud rates are avail
able to the faculty and students. 
Rooms are priced from $2.80 to 
$9.00 per day.
tion of Joseph Stecko, student con
ductor for the work. Tickets for 
this concert are free, and will be 
available in the music office a 
week before the concert.
The second of the concerts will 
be given by the String Ensemble 
conducted by Goesta Andriasson, 
and will be presented on Decem
ber 11 at 8:15 p. m. in Carnegie 
Music hall. Included in the pro
gram are the Concerto Grosso 
no. 6, by Handel; Divertimento 
no. 11, by Mozart; the Adagio 
op. 3, by Leken; and the Seren
ade op. 48 of Tschaikowsky. No 
tickets will be required for ad
mission.
Clan Constitution 
Preamble Changed 
To Clarify Aims
Claymore Clan presented a con
stitution to Dorm Council last 
Monday evening for approval. 
Though the constitution has not 
been changed, a new preamble 
was written to clarify the Clans 
purposes.
The reason for presenting the 
preamble at this time, said Wally 
Parr, who represented the clan 
at the meeting, is to clear up the 
prevalent confusion concerning the 
relations between Claymore Clan 
and the dormitory residents.
The purposes of the clan are:
(1) to promote the general wel
fare of the dormitories as a unit,
(2) to provide recognized outlets 
for the talents of the dormitory 
residents, (3) to promote cultural 
and social life in the dormitories, 
(4) to guide newcomers to the 
school, and (5) to establish a 
closer union between the dormi
tory residents and the administra
tion.
Neiv F(toilities Planned 
For Students, Faculty
Continuing the policy starter 
last spring, Carnegie Techs med; 
ical department will be further 
expanded. Dr. O. Grant Reed, 
CITs first full time physician. I 
heads the new program which will , 
be initiated in the near future.
Space used now by the physical 
education department on the sec
ond floor of the gymnasium will 
be made available for the health 
department. This will provide a 
fifty per cent increase over pres
ent accommodations.
New facilities for students will 
include a waiting room equipped 
with new furniture and an acous
tic ceiling. The entire suite of 
rooms will be redecorated and 
refurnished.
Diathermic and x-ray treatment 
are promised as well as other upto-date medical service and equip
ment. A laboratory and resting 
room will also be added.
Faculty members as well as stu
dents will benefit from the im
provements, for a special consul
tation service will be at their disOn Sunday, December 4, the 
Womens Glee club, directed by 
Miss Carolyn Kennedy, will carry 
on its annual tradition of partici
pating in church services.
The first performance will be 
presented in the vesper service to 
be held at 4:30 p. m. in St. An
drews Lutheran Church, Center 
and Morewood Avenues. Several 
songs from the Glee Club will be 
followed by a brief message from 
the pastor.
A second performance is sched
uled for December 11, 3:00 p. m., 
at the Central Christian church, 
134 Dithridge Street. The Glee * 
club will sing some numbers in 
the Christmas sing sponsored by 
the youth groups of the Allegheny 
County Christian Churches.
The public is cordially invited 
to attend both these inspiration
A native of Grove, Oklahoma, Norman 
Hays graduated from Grove High School 
in 1935. The following year he entered 
Oklahoma A&M, where he majored in 
engineering; also took public speaking.
Active in national 4H Club work while in 
college, he helped organize its statewide 
activities, won a national 4H champion
ship in Public Speaking. In 1940 he re
ceived his BS degree in engineering.
A month later he began navigator train
ing as an Aviation Cadet. In 1941, he 
received his navigators wings and a 
commission as Second Lieutenant . . . 
married his college sweetheart.
posai.
Glee Club To Sing 
At Church Vesper, 
Chistmas Meeting
Civic Affairs Essay Contest 
Highlights Community Problem
%
Prizes will be awarded again this year for the two best essays 
written by undergraduates in the College of Engineering and Science 
on a significant problem in governmental or civic affairs in the
students own community.
There will be a first prize of 
seventy-five dollars and a second 
of twenty-five dollars. Essays used 
for the contest may be closely re
lated to social relations term pa
pers if approved by the instructor 
of the course.
The essay contest is sponsored 
by The Alumni Fund for Greater 
Interest in Government, which is 
being used to further student un
derstanding of governmental and 
civic problems and to interest stu
dents in seeking sound solutions 
for them. Problems should be 
considered as a whole, but the 
particular focus of approach may 
be technological, political, econ
omic, psychological, or social.
Clarity Essential 
Soundness and clarity of the 
analysis and the realistic under
standing of both the origin and 
nature of the problem and the 
practical processes to be followed 
in reaching a solution will form 
the primary basis for judgment.
In the preparation of the essay, 
careful attention should be given 
to the following: a clear statement 
of the problem, presentation of 
evidence to show that the problem 
exists, data relating to its analy
sis and solution, analysis of data, 
presentation of a suggested solu
tion, and suggestions for putting 
the solution into effect within the 
community.
Length No Criterion 
Length of the essay is to be
determined by what the contestant 
believes is necessary to present 
the problem, related data, and 
suggestions for solution. Clarity 
and conciseness will be given con
sideration in judging the essay; 
mere length will not be a criterion. 
Social relations instructors will be 
glad to confer with anyone seek
ing advice.
Essays must be filed with Pro
fessor A. A. Gilmore not later 
than April 18, 1950. Contestants 
are requested to inform him in 
IH 229-D of their intention to 
compete and to receive from Him 
further information, including re
quirements as to the form of the 
essays.
Sent to an RAF Navigation School in 
Canada, he graduated with the highest 
possible rating of Specialist. Norman 
served overseas for 18 months in the 
Aleutians, Italy and Saipan.
Accepting a regular commission after 
the war, he was assigned to development 
of navigation instruments; navigated the 
B-29 Pacusan Dreamboat on its famed 
Hawaii-Cairo non-stop flight in 1946.
Typical of college graduates who have 
found their place in the U. S. Air Force, 
Major Hays is Chief, Navigation Section, 
at Headquarters in Washington . . . with, 
a secure career ... a promising future.
If you are ingle, between the ages of 20 and 26%, with at least two years of college, consider a flying career as an officer in the V. S. Air Force. You may be able to meet the high physical and moral requirements and be selected for training. If you do not oomplete Aviation Cadet training, you may return to civilian life or have opportunity to 
train for an important officer assignment im non-flying fields.
Air Force officer procurement teams or# visiting many colleges and universities to explain about these career opportunities. Watch for their arrival or get full details at your nearest Air Force Base, local recruiting station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D. C.
U. S. AIR FORCE
ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949TAWAIVil
The Carnegie Slaitl
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Co-editors ."..................................... George Schussler, Robert Ellstrom
Circulation Managers .. Richard Van Halinger, Anthony Barbarino 
Reporters ... Frank Mihelich, Allen Hempshire, LeRoy Stoutenburg, 
Jr., Hazel Moore, Michael Gittens, Marilyn Weiss, Harry Mattern
Editorial
Its On Its Own!
In our opinion Evening Student Council is finallj'' on its 
own and the evidence disclosed at a recent meeting of Council 
is the basis for this opinion.
Council Advisor, Council Treasurer, and Council President 
reported the results of a meeting with representatives of the 
school as follows: a budget submitted by Council Treasurer was 
accepted by the school for the current school year, and a check 
was deposited in Evening Student Councils bank account. It. 
is now up to Council to work within the limits of this budget.
If a profit is showyn at the end of the school year it will 
be to the credit of Evening Student Council and proof that 
Council is not just an organization for spending money. How
ever, it must be noted that Council must do everything possi
ble to avoid a deficit. The budget enforces this restriction.
It is our opinion that the opportunity that now presents 
itself can make or break Council. Council must now prove that 
it is a well organized group of sensible persons, a group repre
sentative of the students now present on Evening School cam
pus. We are sure that Council will not show itself lacking in 
this instance.
Perhaps we should not be too critical of Evening Student 
Councils actions in the past; although we at times felt that it 
was immature in the handling of its funds.
The important point to remember is that in this period of 
stiff economy even an organization such as our Evening Council 
should stress the need for economical spending; now that it is 
once more solvent lets hope that it can remain that way.
If we speak harshly it is not because we have a dislike for 
Council but only because we earnestly desire Evening Student 
Council to set its finances in order and once again become the 
bulwark of Evening School activities.
y.,.,.VVV.V.,.V.V.V.VSV.V.,,%V%W.V.VAV.V.\V.,.,.,.V.V
Comfortable Formality!
ARROW
DRESS
SHIRTS
Kirk" $6.50 ;
"Nassau"The new 
spread collar style 
$6.50
Whether you're prom 
chairman, glee club 
man, or stag at eye, 
you will be correct and 
comfortable in Arrow** formal 
shirts, dress ties and collars.
See your Arrow dealer now 
for your Christmas and New 
Year's formal wear needs.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS

Um
$.

-
W.v.v  I
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Dona hoes
ATlanlic 1-2964
MW
Evening Frat 
Held Several 
Fcdl Socials
Sigma Delta Phi Fraternity be
gan their autimr. program sched
ule by having three meetings 
within one month. A social held 
on November 5 at the Carnegie 
Union gave the members and 
their wives or giri friends a chance 
to display their ability at cards. 
Canasta was the cause for many 
heated discussions, although 
hearts brought many clever plays 
to light. After partaking of delici
ous refreshments prepared by so
cial chairman Ray Schwalm the 
meeting was adjourned.
The business meeting was held 
on November 13. Events of the 
past months were discussed as 
well as new developments pro
posed for the future. A very com
mendable new feature is the edit
ing of a monthly bulletin by so
cial chairman John Miller to keep 
the members informed of com
ing events. New members initiated 
at this meeting were Fred Nichols, 
John Eck, Dobert Lloyd, and 
James Murry.
On November 19 the fraternity 
held a swimming party at the Tech 
pool. After splashing around in 
the pool, the group had dancing 
and refreshments. All this phys
ical activity was a pleasant diver
sion from the mental labors that 
most of the group usually engaged
Council Gets Money 
For Years Aciivities
Thanksgiving Dance Price Set; 
Halloween Party Termed Success
The regular monthly meeting of Student Council was held on 
November 6. The meeting was called to order by Vice President 
George Dawes in the absence of President Michael Gittens.
The treasurer, Byron May, reported that the Evening Student
--------------------------------------------------appropriation had been deposited
for the 1949-50 school year.
I\ Cff S
And
Views
To those who read this article
Old Business
Under old business a report 
was received covering attendance 
at the Girls Tea held on October 
6. Sixteen of the girls present in
dicated that they would like to 
participate in Council activities.
A report of the Halloween
, . _ . . . . , Square dance indicated that thebefore Thanksgiving we want to !ffair wag successful from the
extend our wishes for a pleasant! standpoint of attendance and theThanksgiving, and, Hope you had j pjeasure enjoyed by the people 
a pleasant Thanksgiving to those j who attended.
Registration Shows 
Tri-State Students 
Well Represented
Registration records show that 
the tri-state area is well repre
sented in the Tech Evening 
School. Of the 1305 evening stu
dents, the City of Pittsburgh 
sends 473. The Borough of Wilkinsburg is well represented with 
80, and Mount Lebanon sends 40.
Next in line is New Kensington 
with 39, followed closely by 
Brentwoods 34 and McKeesports 
31. After the 27 representatives 
from Swissvale, representation 
ranges from 1 to 21 in the other 
townships and boroughs.
Allegheny County alone sends 
673 students, excluding the 473 
from Pittsburgh. The nice repre
sentation from New Kensington 
helps to build the West Moreland 
county total up to 77, and 31 stu
dents travel from Beaver county. 
After Washington countys 19 
representatives and. Butler coun
tys 12, Armstrong and Lawrence 
counties are tie with 5 from each. 
Trailing are Fayette county with 2 
and Cambria county with 1.
The records also show that some 
students are interested enough in 
education to travel from West Vir
ginia and Ohio. There are 4 stu
dents registered from Weirton, 
one from Wheeling, and two from 
Canton.
who read this after the Thanksj 
giving recess. Of course an ex
planation is due for our dual greet
ing. Since our Thanksgiving re
cess begins Wednesday, Novem
ber 23, and ends Monday, No
vember 28, the paper will be dis
tributed on each of the evenings 
Evening students will be on cam
pus; consequently some students 
will see this issue before the 
Thanksgiving recess, and some 
afterward.
Nu Sigma Alpha, Evening
School activities honorary frater
nity, held its formal initiation on 
Sunday, November 20. Evening 
students honored by membership 
in this group are selected from j 
those students who have shown 
interest in school affairs, and have 
previously earned an Evening Stu
dent Council insignia key.
Jim Frape, Evening Student 
Council member, and co-editor of > 
this years Evening School Handj 
book, has carried away four prize
An orchestra had been obtained 
for the Thanksgiving dance and 
an attempt will be made to pub
licize the dance so that a large 
attendance may be expected. The 
admission fee of $2.00 per couple 
was approved by Council.
New Business
Under new business Jim 
Frape offered to make a door prize 
for the St. Patricks Day dance.
Council approved a motion that 
points earned for an insignia 
award be carried over for one 
year.
Following the presentation of 
bills, the meeting was adjourned 
at 4:15 p. m.
Thev TeachW
By \i-l.l
Editors note: .
fTo better acquaint the evenribbons"Vom** the Arizon^T St^te Iin^ indent with their instructors
Fair with his unique designs in !a f tnterviews have been
jewelry. | made> the first * tchtch jolThis is the second year that he lQtvs Ed.]
has copped prizes at this affair. 
Jim has studied jewelry design 
at Carnegie Tech Evening School 
for many years, and is a compe
tent artist in jewelry making. We 
are happy to hear that Jim is 
getting a few breaks in the kind 
of work he likes best.
Ruth L. Dennhardt, voice and 
speech teacher of Fine Arts, grad
uated from Several schools, in
cluding Nurses Training and 
Michigan State Normal College.
Miss Dennhardt got the inspir
ation for teaching voice and 
i speech by one day having a felIncidentally, after the Council j low student in college ask her to
square dance your News and 
Views reporter took to the ropes. 
After a few dozies and double 
dozies the fact became apparent 
that either the dance was too 
strenuous or this writer was do
ing the dance the hard way.
According to one informer, 
Frank Mihelich is plodding 
through the halls with stooped 
shoulders. Could be that there is 
something to the fact that the 
members of Sigma Delta Phi call 
him money bags.
join a dramatic group: She was 
very astonished to find the teach
er of this group actually teach
ing them how to acquire new abil
ities with proper voice training.
This was the first time in her 
experience that she found stu
dents actually learning how to put 
their voice across to the audi
ence. Her experience in that dra
ma class was the factor which 
decided her career.
She gained practical experi
ence in public speaking by apLet's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice (ream (ones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
(a
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street. Oakland 
Main Plant:
' f't the Allies
At its recent regular monthly j Paring on a -adio program for 
business-social meeting. Phi Gamj several months. She not only 
ma Pi Sorority held its annual  BgiG. im D^. LJ?i SWD JEBi edit* 
election of officers. The officers ^ as we^-elected were: President, Betty La-1 Besides teaching voice and 
katos; Vice-President, Betty WilI Miss Dennhardt is quite
liams, Treasurer, Ellen Gonter; \ active in the drama department.
Secretary, Virginia Kratz. | m m_________ ___________________
George Schussler, Plaid co-edj IX SHOa[Co
C tor, has moved to Sewickley, and ! i_______.
his trips to and from home are 
getting to be quite an experience.
The remedy can be summed up 
in five words, He needs a new 
car.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT (ENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCHTar tnGidesCdleALS ,
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS. PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
11S3 OAKLAND AVE. MA. t-4?ll
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
9B TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
University Recreation 
BOWLING
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenlev 1-9307

---------------------------------------------------

12TA4WA1VTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1949
STARRING IN
THE GREAT LOVER
A PARAMOUNI PICTURE
/ /At AMff/CAS COllCS
f nti r//f oue ii ttd peugop
W/TH TH HOllYWOOD STA PS
NewtonMcRae
"SMOKE MY CIGARETTE
MILDER-MUCH MILDER
With my mother-in-law. I like 
to do things the hard way. It 
builds character.
Bulletin HoardGerman Scientist 
Visits CarnegieInquiringReporter
YM & YWHA Sponsors Lecture 
By Pitt Sociology Professor
On Tuesday, November 23, Pro
fessor Phelps of the sociology de
partment, University of Pitts
burgh, will speak on, What Price 
Intermarriage/ The meeting will 
be held at the Isaac Seder Edu
cational Center, 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave., at 8:30 p. m. This meeting is 
free, and all students regardless of 
faith are cordially invited to at
tend.
There will be a tea dance also 
at the Y.M.&W.H.A. November 
23, sponsored by the Jewish Stu
dent Association at the Morris 
Kaufman auditorium. The dance 
will be held from 2 p. m. to 5:30 
p. m. ten cents admission will be 
charged.
Dr. Gerhart Kessler, a scientist 
in the Electrotechnical Institute of
the Technische Hochschule at 
Stuttgart, Germany, is visiting 
Carnegie as part of a three month 
tour of the United States.
Dr. Kessler, who will spend two 
weeks on the Carnegie campus, is 
studying engineering education 
methods and engineering tech
niques as used in America.
At Carnegie, he will study the 
Carnegie Plan of Professional Ed
ucation as applied in the College 
of Engineering and Science.
Educated at Berlin and Munich, 
Dr. Kessler received his Doctor of 
Engineering degree at Stuttgart.
The tour, sponsored by the U. S. 
Office of Education, also include 
visits to Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology and Penn State 
college.
Where would you like to spend 
your honeymoon? Maybe you 
dont know yet, but as a result 
of his prying, the inquiring re
porter found that some students 
had a definite choice.
Somerville Devlin
Ginny Somerville, Gen. Sci. 
freshmanIn Tahiti, because its 
such a romantic 'place.
Robert Devlin, M. E. sophomore 
In Canada on a quiet lake. So 
I can go fishing in my spare time.*
* -
Burt Wells Selected 
To Represent Phillip Morris
Burt Wells has been selected 
from the junior and senior classes 
as Carnegie Tech's campus repre
sentative by the Philip Morris 
cigarette company.
As representative, Burt Wells 
will act as liason between Car
negie Tech and the Philip Morris 
Co. He will also provide guest 
packages of cigarettes to students 
on campus.
Scotch 'n Soda Preview 
To Be Held December 4
The 1950 Scotch n Soda show 
will be announced and previewed 
at the annual fall party for all 
members to be held at the Car
negie Inn on Sunday, December 
4th from 3:30 until 5:30 p. m.
Jane McRae, drama freshman 
Manteo, N. C. Why? It is a 
very secluded spot on the ocean. 
Archie Newton, M. E. junior
