Vol. X. No. 10 Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania November 24, 1915
VARSITY DOWNS WESTERN RESERVE
MUDDY FIELD.-AULTDOERFLER BIGGEST SCORER
CELEBRATION OE 
(ARNEGIE DAT
Great Gathering Expected.
The celebration of the eightieth 
birthday of our founder; the fifteenth 
year since the original conception of 
Tech, and the tenth year since its 
doors were opened, promises to be 
the greatest event of its kind that 
has taken place in the history of the 
school. Elaborate preparations have 
been made by the committee in 
charge to make this day a great suc
cess and to entertain the visitors in 
the best manner possible. Not a de
tail in the arrangements has been 
omitted to add to the success of the 
day.
Representatives of the Institute 
met in-coming trains at all the 
railroad stations on Tuesday morn
ing, November 23d. They provided 
for the transportation of guests 
to the quarters assigned them, and 
furnished such information as may 
be desired. They were identified by 
a Tartan arm-band with the letter C.
The guests of the Institute who are 
entertained at the Hotel Schenley 
were requested to register in the 
lobby of the hotel immediately upon 
arrival. Each guest received at this 
time a distinguishing emblem, a pro
gram of the celebration, cards of ad
mission to the various exercises, etc.
Those who wished to make a trip 
through the parks and residential por
tion of the city found automobiles 
pwaiting them at the Hotel Schen
ley at ten-thirty on Tuesday morning.
Automobiles were ready at the 
Schenley to carry guests to the Insti
tute of Technology for a visit to the
Continued on Page 3
GEARHART GRADUATE MAN
AGER.
Old Cheer Leader and Baseball Cap
tain of Class 13 Succeeds 
Foster.
John R. Gearhart, a graduate of the 
School of Applied Science, who took 
his B. S. in Electrical Engineering in 
1913, was elected to the position of 
graduate manager of Athletics and 
Student Activities at the meeting of 
the Board of Control on last Wednes
day evening. A week or more before 
the Student Activities Committee had 
elected him subject to the approval of 
the Board of Control, which was given 
last week.
The election of Gearhart was espe
cially appropriate, since there are few
Continued on Page 4
In a chilling wind and drizzling rain 
a large crowd of enthusiastic and spir
ited spectators witnessed the Tech 
Varsity foot ball team close the most 
successful season of its comparatively 
short existence by decisively defeating 
the Western Reserve eleven of Cleve
land on the Tech field.. The field was 
almost a lake of mud with a few dry 
islands and slowed the play on sev
eral occasions. The Plaid outweighed 
the visitors, especially in the back field 
and were therefore less handicapped 
by the slippery condition of the play
ing surface than our worthy visitors.
Aultdoerffer Stars.
While the whole back field starred 
as usual we were especially attracted 
to the playing of Aultdoerffer in every 
department of the game on Saturday. 
Every kick-off was high and long and 
the ends were waiting for their man 
when it arrivedhis long clean punts 
were of the same character. Salt 
scored three touch downs by teriffic 
line plunging and contributed largely 
to the first downs. After the first 
touch down and a second was immi
nent, Salt drop-kicked for three 
points from the 26 yard line. He also 
scored one from goal after touch down 
making a total of 22 points to his 
credit. On interference we have sel
dom saw such effective boring as was 
witnessed Saturday as time after time 
Salt rode over a threatening oppon
ent and took a top seat on his torso. 
Marked improvement in Interference.
On every end run the man with the
CARNEGIE TRIUMPHS OVER 
WOOSTER.
Cross Country Runners Have Little 
Trouble Defeating Ohioans.
In a dual run with Wooster Uni
versitys cross country team, prelimi
nary to Saturdays football game with 
Western Reserve, the cross country 
team was easily returned a winner. 
Rain and^ sleet and cold on Thursday 
and Friday had turned the course into 
a soft mud in which the runners sank 
ankle deep. In spite of opposing 
weather conditions, however, the race 
was made in very good time. Start
ing in Tech Field a little before two 
oclock the teams covered more than 
five miles through Schenley Park and 
ended before the student bleachers in 
Tech Field again.
Rieser and Walker were the first
Continued on Page 3
ball was preceded by a wall of inter
ference that chopped off the enemy 
and was accountable for gains that 
could not otherwise have been made 
on such a wet field. This feature has 
not been so evident in previous games 
where gains were largely due to in
dividual effort and ingenuity rather 
than concentrated team play, and we 
all expect next season to begin as it 
closed with this feature.
Marshal and Findlay Make Large 
Gains.
Marshal made the most spectacu
lar run of the game for a touch down 
after a previous run of thirty yards 
through the whole team. Marshal 
has featured on kick-offs the whole 
year and has probably had more first 
tackles than any other member of 
the team with Kutz a close second. 
Findlay made several clean effective 
tackles of a spectacular nature and 
also exhibited his usual headiness in 
field running and interference al
though a slippery field is a great 
handicap to his particular style of 
play. Gibson and Lauer exhibited 
their usual cleverness on defense and 
Lauer on offense. Gibson is still a 
little weak in this department but has 
developed into a very brilliant de
fensive player. Kutz and Williams 
stopped play after play on the tackles 
and also did Mac and Holzworth who 
substituted for Kutz after he had been injured. Kelly and Fletcher 
plowed through the enemies trenches
NIGHT SCIENCE SMOKER.
Jolly Crowd Attend at Hotel Ander
son.
The Anderson Hotel was the Night 
Science Students Mecca on Satur
day evening, November 20th. There 
they saw the Fourth Annual Smoker 
of that school pass into the class 
of pleasant memories. We are accus
tomed, those of us who have attended 
the same function in former years, to 
anticiapte an evening brimful of en
joyment. This years event proved 
no exception as far as the realiza
tion of our anticipations were con
cerned.
Mr. Johnson, fifth year President, 
set the ball rolling. Unfortunately, 
he had to announce that Dean Leete, 
who was to have addressed us, could 
not be present. However, thrown on
Continued on Page 7
FOOTBALL HEN AT 
ANNUAL BANQUET
Hellstrom Chosen As 1916 Football 
Captain.
At the football banquet held at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel following Saturdays 
victory over Western Reserve, Hell
strom, Techs star center, was chosen 
to lead the team next year.
The banquet, following Techs most 
successful season in the history of 
this institution, was second to none. 
With but one defeat to mar the bright
ness of a clear sky, twenty-nine of the 
squad indulged in a choice selection 
of eats and smokes.
Short speeches were made by Dr. 
Marks, Mr. McCulloch, Dr. Esquerre, 
Manager Henning, Assistant Manager 
Orr and all the letter men. The idea, 
which predominated in all the speech
es, was that of assurance of Techs 
future success.
In a speech by Coach Steffen, exCaptain Lauer was commended very 
highly for his never-tiring work with 
the team; the squad for their consist
ent work, their courtesy toward him 
and their co-operation with him in all 
that he has attempted. He assured 
the squad that the next year would 
be a hard one requiring the same old 
Tech pep. It was not till he said 
Boys, I am leaving Pittsburgh to
night, that a wave of sorrow swept 
over the room only to be brushed 
aside by the word, I will return, how
ever, in the spring to oversee the work 
in preparation for a still greater sea
son.
A message was received early in the 
evening from Dr. Hamerschlag, exContinued on Page 4
INDUSTRIES UPPERS AND MID
DLES ENTERTAIN PLEBES 
AT DANCE.
The few Plebes wno did not attend 
the dance Saturday night did them
selves an injustice, for it was the first 
opportunity the new arrivals had since 
their advent in our midst to meet the 
upper and middle classmen in any 
manner other than the intermingling 
in and out of classrooms. Carnegie 
Union witnessed the first Industries 
dance this year when the combined 
Upper and Middle classes tendered 
the freshmen a dance and the way in 
which our freshies turned out with 
their lady friends stamped them im
mediately as being there when it came 
to engaging in such social events.
Continued on Page 5
Continued on Page 8

---------------------------------------------------

(Hartan
tartan
2
Published Weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be send to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50 5c per copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Editor-in-Chief
Harold L. Heilman, 16.
Phone, Schenley 9022-J. 
Business Manager 
Arch H. Cowan, 16.
Phone, Schenley 9167. 
Managing Editor 
Edgar G. Hamilton, 17.
News Editor 
A. M. Staehle, 17.
Athletic Editor 
Charles H. Meredith, 17.
Art Editor 
A. Brady McSwigan 
Editors 
C. F. Peters, 16.
P. N. Bossart, 16 Geo. A. Cook, *18. 
Marguerite Menges, 16.
M. J. Wolgemuth, 16. 
Associate Editors 
VV. M. Swan, 18.
Beatrice E. Heinrich, 18. 
J. R. Hoxworth, 17. Sue Smith, 17.
PITTSBURGH PA., NOV. 24, 1915
OUR FIFTEENTH ANNI
VERSARY.
In November, 1900, Andrew Car
negie founded the school which bears 
his name. It will be of interest to 
all to know just how our institution 
was first conceived. The following 
letter from Mr. Carnegie to the Mayor 
of Pittsburgh marks the first step in 
our foundation. The text follows: 
Honored Sir:
I learn with deep interest that the 
Central Board of Education has asked 
the City of Pittsburgh for $100,000 
to begin a Technical School, no doubt 
to obtain for the bright youth of the 
High School the essential advantages 
which technical education in our day 
affords.
For many years I have nursed the 
pleasing thought that I might be the 
fortunate giver of a Technical Insti
tute to our City fashioned upon the 
best models, for I know of no insti
tution which Pittsburgh, as an industrnal centre, so much needs. I post
poned moving in the matter because 
I wished the Carnegie Institute to be 
fairly launched upon its new develop
ment before drawing the attention of 
Pittsburgh to the Technical Institute. 
The action of the Educational Board, 
however, impels me to step forward 
now and ask that I may be allowed
to do what I have long wished to 
do for Pittsburgh.
I have given much attention to 
Technical Schools both in the United 
States and Great Britain during the 
past few years. The work now being 
done by the Technical Institute in 
Boston and Worcester, the Drexel 
Institute in Philadelphia, the Pratt 
Institute in Brooklyn, the Armour Intitute in Chicago, is most encourag
ing.
In Great Britain the Keithley In
stitute and the Halifax Institute, 
which I visited in S-eptember last to 
distribute the prizes to the students, 
gave me a surprise; nearly one-half 
of the 1,100 students in the former, 
and fully one-half of the 1,400 in the 
latter, were young men and women, 
workers during the day, improving 
themselves in various studies pertain
ing to their crafts in the evening 
classes of these institutions. I told 
these students that this impressed me 
more than anything else. I recalled 
an essay written by my grandfather 
to Cobbets Register, which that great 
man pronounced the most valuable 
communication ever published in the 
Register. It was entitled Handication versus Headification. In that ar
ticle my grandfather thanked God 
that in his youth he had learned to 
make and mend shoes.
It is really astonishing how many 
of the worlds foremost men have be
gun as manual laborers. The great
est of all, Shakespeare, was a woolcarder; Burns, a plowman; Columbus, 
a sailor; Hannibal, a blacksmith; Lin
coln, a rail-splitter; Grant, a tanner. 
I know of no better foundation from 
which to ascend that manual labor 
in youth.
We have two notable examples of 
this in our pwn community whose 
fame is world-wide: George Westinghouse was a mechanic; Professor 
Brashear, a millwright.
I believe that a first class technical 
school, probably as large as that of 
Worcester, would develop latent tal
ent around us to such an extent as 
to surprise the most sanguine.
If the City of Pittsburgh will fur
nish a site, which I hope will be of 
ample size for future extensions, I 
shall be delighted to furnish the 
money for such a school taking care 
to provide room for additions to the 
buildings, to meet the certain growth 
of Pittsburgh.
The rare ability with which the 
Trustees of the Carnegie Institute 
have managed it, and the results 
which have so surprised and gratified 
me, naturally lead me to beg these 
gentlemen to take charge of the Tech
nical Institute and its endowment. I 
had only to plead that their increased 
labors were for the good of Pitts
burgh, to be assured by everyone, 
whom I have so far had an opportu
nity of consulting, that they would 
gladly assume the enlarged responsi
bility.
I propose, therefore, Mr. Mayor, to 
include the Technical School with the 
Institute, and have therefore made its 
endowment equal to the latter.
There are many questions to decide, 
involving investigation, careful study 
and much labor; among these, whe
ther fees should be charged, as at the 
Armour, Drexel, Worcester and Bos
ton Institutes, and in fact I might say 
all the technical schools, or whether 
we can take a new departure and ar
range that the students of the High 
School, for instance, should haye the 
doors of the Technical School open 
to them free. This and many other 
questions must be left to the Commis
sion. But I am in a position to as
sure you that the Commission is pre
pared to face the problem, and that 
my heart is in tlie work.
Very respectfully yours,
Andrew Carnegie.
In 1908, the Board of Trustees of 
Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh, se
lected the present site, on which 
ground was broken tor our first group 
of buildings in April, 1905. The fall 
of the same year (1905) the school 
opened its doors to the first students. 
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School was founded in 1906, and 
housed that year in its present build
ing. Our first diplomas were awarded 
in June, 1908, to graduating students 
of engineering and architecture.
On April 20, 1912, the name Car
negie Technical Schools was offi
cially hanged to the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, and the institu
tion received from the State of Penn
sylvania a charter of incorporation, 
with the power to confer degrees. The 
first degrees were conferred upon the 
occasion of the fifth commencement, 
in June, 1912.
At the present time Carnegie Tech 
ranks among the greatest institutions 
of learning in the world. We should 
be and are proud of her standing, and 
most rapid development. Just think! 
what fifteen more years shall bring 
to Carnegie Tech.
PITT TECH RIVALRY.
During the past week a number of 
incidents have occurred about the 
school and also some distance from 
the school which we consider worthy 
of comment to say tlie least. Pre
vious to the Pitt-Tech game it ap
pears that a number of students hav
ing a rather doubtful sense of humor 
saw fit to alter the appearance of an 
electric sign on the hill. This oc
currence was followed by the dec
oration (?) of certain parts of our 
institution with various colored dobs 
of paint presumably the work of 
Pitt artists whose artistic tempera
ment was of the same caliber as the 
above-mentioned humor. As a retali
atory measure it was seen fit to again 
change the appearance of the elec
tric sign, this time there was no doubt 
as to the humor or judgment exhib
ited by the perpetrators of this deed. 
There simply was no humor or judg
ment present. In commenting upon 
these occurrences we feel that we 
voice the sentiment of the great ma? 
jority of the students when we say 
that such actions are certainly not 
sanctioned, but even strongly de
nounced. There are in any institu
tion a few whose judgment is of such 
a proportion that is not only infinitesmal but at times even seems to be 
a minus quantity. The work of such 
members is often taken as an indica
tion of the sentiment expressed by 
the entire body of which they are 
members, thus doing great harm 
which may not only lead to further 
difficulty but even lead to circum
stances which may take years to re
adjust. We trust that such occur
rences may cease, and that the bet
ter element of each school may be 
able to succeed in the effort of estab
lishing a spirit of friendly rivalry be
tween the two schools.
TO ANDREW CARNEGIEBEST 
WISHES.
To Andrew Carnegie, on this his 
eightieth birthday, the Tartan ex
tends its heartiest and best wishes 
for the years to come. The only de
tractions from our pleasure on this 
occasion is that Mr. Carnegie is un
able to receive in person our felicita
tions and those of the remainder of 
student body. But we know that 
though absent, he realizes the affec
tion and regard that is carried along 
with these few words of well-wishing.
A fitting reward for a well spent 
life is a hale and hearty old age with 
the love and respect of all mankind. 
And though the Psalmist sang of 
three score and ten as the allotted 
span of life, his song was not of such 
men as Andrew Carnegie, and we 
look forward now to the next of his 
many visits to come, when we may 
again show him that honor which is 
his due and the affection which is 
present in the hearts of the thirtyfour hundred students of Carnegie 
Tech.
THE FOOTBALL TEAM.
It is fitting that at this time the 
football team should have closed the 
most successful season in the history 
of Carnegie Tech athletics. The Tar
tan congratulates Captain Lauer and 
the other members of the team for 
the results obtained, not only on the 
skill, but also on the spirit they have 
shown on the field. We also con
gratulate Coach Steffen on the sea
sons triumph due as much to his 
magnetic personality and the exam
ple set the team by his character as 
to his knoweldge of the game.
We offer to Whitey Hellstrom 
Captain for 1916, our best wishes for 
success. A strong, careful and brainy 
player and a particularly good man 
on the defense. We feel sure that 
he will have the tact, wisdom, and 
skill that will be especially needed 
next season. Conditions prophesy 
that he will be called upon to lead 
a very successful team, and we are 
certain that he will measure up to all 
the requirements of his responsible 
position.
FRATERNITY NEWS.
Sigma Tau entertained quite a num
ber of the faculty and alumni at a 
dinner and smoker after the Western 
Reserve game.
Sigma Rho had present last Sunday 
afternoon many of the alumni and 
pledges at their home on Forbes 
street.
Xi Sigma Upsilon announces the 
pledging of Messrs. Kelly and Perkison.

---------------------------------------------------

(lje ariatt3
good overcoats
Overcoats have become more than simply an over garment, 
for warmth and protection. Weve given them a character and 
styledistinction never before attained; new ideas in fashions and 
models which you will particularly like; the best development in 
making smart, snappy styles, especially for young men, that the 
clothing art has ever known.
BOGGS & BUHLTrue
Values
True
Values
The Great American Smoke 
Bull DurhamFall in line with the hundreds of thousands of redblooded smokers of the good old U. S. A. Smoke the 
cigarette tobacco thats been an American institution tor 
three generations**Bull Durham. The rich, relishy, star* 
spangled taste of Bull puts the national spirit of get-upand-hustle into your hand-rolled cigarette. Bull is the 
freshest, snappiest, liveliest of smokes.
GENUINE
**Bull Durham
SMOKING TOBACCO
Roll your own with  Bull Durham and you 11 find a far greater satisfaction in smoking your cigarette than 
you ever did before. The rich, mild tobacco leaf Bull is made of has that delightful mellow
sweetness which suits your taste 
to a T. And its aromatic 
fragrance is supremely unique.
Men who never smoked ciga
rettes before are now rolling 
their own with Bull Durham.
Ask for FREE package of 
papers with each 5c sack
FRFF An Illustrated Booklet,* IxEjl-i showing correct way to 
Roll Your Own Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will 
both be mailed, free, to any address in the United States on request.
Address "Bull Durham, Durham.
N. C., Room 1400.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
 
CELEBRATION CARNEGIE DAY
Continued from Page 1 
shops, laboratories, class-rooms, and 
studios of the four schools which 
comprise the Institute: the School of 
Applied Science, School of Applied 
Design, School of Applied Industries, 
and Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School for Women. Faculty escorts 
were provided for small groups of 
visitors, and work was in progress 
in all the departments.
Guests who were not previously vis
ited the Art Galleries, Museum, and 
Library of the Carnegie Institute 
found guides awaiting them.
At seven oclock, the guests were 
received by the Trustees of the In
stitute in the Presidents Room. At 
seven-thirty, dinner was served in 
Architectural Hall of the Institute.
Following the dinner an opportun
ity was afforded to witness a cos
tume ball and masque at the School 
of Applied Design, in which the stu
dents depict scenes of the Court of 
Emperor Charlemagne. This was 
a typical art students ball, written 
and staged by students of the School 
of Applied Design, and participated 
in by the students of the four schools.
On Wednesday, November 24th,. 
the formal exercises <vlll be held in 
the Music Hall of the Carnegie In
stitute. The guests will assemble in 
the foyer at the Institute at ten fortyfive to review the procession of the 
faculty and students.
At eleven oclock, Wednesday 
morning, the program will be opened 
by the Symphony Orchestra of the 
Department of Music of the School 
of Applied Design. The address of 
the day will be delivered by Dr. Henry
S. Pritchett upon the educational 
service of Andrew Carnegie. Musical 
numbers will be given by the Choral 
Society of the Institute of Technol
ogy.
Luncheon will be served following 
the exercises, in the Numidian Room 
of the Institute.
A performance of Molieres 
Tartuffe will be given at two-thirty 
oclock in the theatre of the School 
of Applied Design. This production 
will be typical of the work of the De
partment of Dramatic Arts.
PROGRAM.
Tuesday, November Twenty-third. 
Registration of Guests at the Hotel 
Schenley. Out-of-town visitors and
their wives will be the guests of the 
Institute during the celebration.
Automobiles will call at 10:30 A. M, 
at Flotel Schenley for guests who 
wish to take a trip about the city. 
2:00 P. M.Visit to Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology 
under faculty escort. 
(Classes will be in op
eration. Tea will be 
served at the close of 
of the tour at the Mar
garet Morrison Car
negie School.)
7:00 P.M.Reception to guests by 
Board of Trustees. Pres
idents Room, Carnegie 
Institute.
(Guides will be pres
ent at six oclock for 
those who desire to
visit the Art Galleries, 
Library and Museum 
of the Institute.)
7:30 P. M.Trustees Dinner. Arch
itectural Hall, Carnegie 
Institute.
9:00 P. M.Students Medieval Ball.
School of Applied De
sign.
(Depicting scenes of 
the court of Emperor 
Charlemagne.)
Wednesday, November Twenty-fourth
10:45 A. M.Guests assemble at Car
negie Institute to re
view a procession of 
Faculty and Students.
11:00 A. M.Exercises at Carnegie 
Music Hall.
AddressAndrew Carnegie, by 
Henry S. Pritchett, Ph.D., Sc.D., 
LL.D.
(The Orchestra of the Department of 
Mucic and the Choral Society 
of the Institute of Technol
ogy will participate.)
1:00 P. M.Buffet Luncheon. Nu
midian Room of the 
Carnegie Institute.
2:30 P. M.Performance of Tar
tuffe by Moliere, 
Theatre of the School of 
Applied Design.
Presentation by students of the De
partment of Dramatic Arts.CARNEGIE TRIUMPHS
Continued from Page 1 
two men to enter the gate onto the 
field, Rieser finishing only a few feet 
ahead of Walker. Bom men deserve 
great credit for the race they put up, 
especially Walker, who showed great 
improvement over his last years 
form. A few seconds later, Leavitt of 
Wooster appeared on the field fol
lowed by Dockstadeiand Lawson of 
Tech. Lawson, a new man in this 
branch of athletics, ran a gratifying 
race and gives promise of developing, 
with a little more experience, into an 
excellent distance man. Lawson was 
followed by three Wooster men, 
Swan, Retzear and Campbell. Then 
came Howe and DeYoung of Tech. 
Campbell apparently showed a re
verse in form for he was hailed, pre
vious to the race, as a runner to be 
greatly feared.
The officials for the race were as 
follows:
StarterGayle Dull.
Judges  Wallace McCurdy, Guy 
Halferty, and R. Hastings.
HELLSTROM ELECTED FIRST 
ASSISTANT BASEBALL 
MANAGER.
Board of Control Also Discusses 
Changing Basketball and CrossCountry Insignia.
Axel S. Hellstrom, 18, was the 
choice of the Board of Control at 
their meeting last Wednesday for the 
position of first assistant baseball 
manager. Other men who went out 
regularly last year as second assist
ants were Walker, Kennedy and Bogardus.
Although at their last meeting the 
Board postponed the election so as 
to get a recommendation from Perc 
Tyler, this years manager, the final 
choice was made without this, and
was based largely on the recommend
ation of Pringle, last years manager.
Hellstrom is a member of Xi Sigma 
Upsilon Fraternity, and a brother of 
Herbert E. Hellstrom, next years 
football captain.
The matter of changing Basketball 
from a minor sport with a 4^4" C 
to a major with a 6" C was consid
ered, but no definite action taken. 
Cross-country also wants a change
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
Headquarters for For A11 Athletic
High Grade AthJ Sports and Pasletic Equipment times
606 Wood St. WH.J Pisbll,8|, p..
from the C. A. A. to a 4^ C, but
this, too, was left undecided.

---------------------------------------------------

4(tjp artatt
SOPHOMORE-PLEBE PARTY.
HOME ARTS AND CRAFTS TEA.
On Tuesday, the Home Arts and 
Crafts Department entertained many 
distinguished guests at tea. The 
studio was most artistically decorated 
with all kinds of bobbin and needle 
laces, most of the collection being 
loaned by Mrs. Garland of Massachu
setts. Besides the laces there were 
many beautiful embroideries which 
are to remain in the school till early 
spring, while the laces will stay till 
June. Besides those pieces belonging 
to Mrs. Garland there were also some 
from the Boston Museum, the whole 
collection being valued at a little over 
$5,000. Many of the laces and em
broideries date back to the fourteenth 
and fifteenth centuries, the principal 
kinds represented being Italian Cutwork, cross-stitch, filet, Flemish bob
bin laces and DArgyle Terre.
About 250 people were present. Be
sides the faculty of M. M. C. S. there 
were the Director, Dean and Mrs. 
Leete, Dean and Mrs. Connelly, Dean 
and Mrs. Bossange many of the 
art supervisors and teachers of the 
city schools. In the receiving line 
were the faculty of the Home Arts 
and Crafts DepartmentMiss Mer
rill, Miss Struthers, Miss Dixon, and 
Miss Hewitt, besides Dean Breed, 
Mrs. Garland, and Mrs. Vermorcken. 
Mrs. Church, wife of the president of 
the board of trustees of C. I. T., and 
Mrs. Philput poured, alternately, with 
Mrs. Bossange and Miss Parry. The 
girls of the department served and 
deserve much credit for the way in 
which they handled this part of the 
program.
Placed artistically between the ex
hibits of laces and embroideries were 
bowls and vases of white chrysanthe
mums, while potted ferns and palms 
added to the general beauty of the 
room.
The Department is to be congratu
lated on securing such a magnificent 
collection and placing it so attrac
tively before the public.
DRAMATIC CLUB.
Instead of the play which was to 
have been given last week, the Dra
matic Club has planned an original 
Peerade for next Monday after
noon at 4:30. The procession will 
form in the lower front hall of M. M. 
C. S. and, led by two soldier boys, 
will by many roundabount circlings 
end in Recreation Hall where re
freshments will be served. Many 
original features are promised, one 
being a chorus of comb players im
ported especially for this occasion.
All the girls of the school are urged 
to come and bring, besides them
selves, something with which to make 
a noise. Show your interest in the 
Dramatic Club and help made this a 
memorable occasion. As a side issue, 
you might remember to bring 50c, the 
yearly dues of the club.
Friday afternoon, November 19th, 
the Sophomores gave a party for the 
Plebes in the Recreation Hall after 
school. As each girl came in, she 
was given a square piece of colored 
crepe paper with which to make her
self a hat. After the hats were fin
ished the girls fell in line for the 
grand march in order to give the 
judgesthe men of the facultya 
chance to decide which was the best 
hat. The prize, a beautiful hat was 
awarded to a member of the Plebe 
class.
A cracker race offered a great deal 
of amusement. Twenty girls with 
green hats were called to the center 
of the .room and sat on the floor in 
two rows of ten each. Dr. Watkins 
was on one side and Dr. Amon was 
on the other. The first girl of each 
row was given ten crackers, one of 
which she was to eat, the others to 
be passed to the next girl as soon as 
she could whistle.
In the center of the room was 
placed a large basket and the contest>- 
ants for the prize were first blind
folded and then given instructions to 
throw a basketball into the basket. 
Mr. Rush was the only one who even 
touched the basket and so he was 
awarded a rubber ball for accomplish
ing this wonderful feat.
The girls were called to the table 
for eats according to the color of their 
hats. The eats consisted of buns, 
weenies, dill pickles and cheese. The 
entertainment closed with dancing.
FIFTH AYE. DORM. DANCE.
SORORITY NEWS.
The Theta Sigma Sorority enter
tained Friday at their rooms on Bee
ler street with a tea. The color 
scheme was carried out in the soror
ity colors, rose and gray.
Theta Sigma has pledged Margaret 
Todel and Grace Shields.
Thursday night the Delta Delta 
Sorority entertained with a chafing 
dish party at the home of Miss Mar
jorie Carmichel. A short business 
meeting preceded, after which music 
and refreshments followed.
WEEKLY ASSEMBLY.
At the regular assembly last week 
Miss Lyon took the Deans place, 
giving the girls a very nice talk. Miss 
Lyon has been with the school longer
than any other member of our faculty.
One of the chief thoughts embodied 
in her talk was the need of the girls 
feeling a greater responsibility in con
nection with the School. The other 
was the need to develop a sense of 
loyalty to our school, admitting that 
it is rather hard since most of the 
girls live at home and do not have 
the same opportunity for developing 
school spirit that students do in 
schools where they live on campus.
PAN-HELLENIC MEETING.
At a meeting of the Pan-Hellenic 
representatives last Thursday, 'No
vember 18th, officers for the year were 
elected and the old constitution, 
which still holds, was read. The girls 
who were elected to office are as 
follows: President, Golda McClel
land; vice president, Regina Jacob; 
secretary-treasurer, Katherine Haag.
One of the interesting events of Fri
day evening, November 19th, was a 
dance given by the Fifth Ave. Dorm, 
girls. Music was furnished by Mr. 
Gus Schnabel, an able musician. 
Those in charge were Miss Rachel 
Pollock, who officiated as chairman of 
the Program Committee and Miss 
Marian Keefer, chairman of the re
freshment committee. All partici
pants spent an enjoyable evening and 
the event came to a close all too soon.
Miss Hazel Mason and Miss Iradel 
Weidhos, both of whom were at the 
dormitory last year, were guests at 
the dance.
GEARHART GRAD. MANAGER
Continued from Page 1 
alumni who have taken a larger in
terest in athletics and Tech Spirit 
than he. For four years he was a 
varsity baseball man and the last he 
captained the team through one of 
their most successful seasons. In his 
last two years he was the official cheer 
leader of the school. Gearhart was 
a member of the Senior Honor So
ciety, the Seannachie, and is one of 
Sigma Rhos alumni members.
The position of graduate manager 
is a very important one about the 
school, since it falls to him to arrange 
practically all of the athletic sched
ules, and make many of the arrange
ments which have for their purpose 
the placing of Tech on the athletic 
map. The work of this graduate man
ager does much to lighten the ardu
ous duties of the student managers. 
A general oversight and a close tab 
on the finances of all the student actvitiesc such as the Student Activities 
Board, the Thistle, the Musical Clubs, 
the Band, and the Radio Club are the 
non-athletic duties of the position.
It should be clearly understood 
that this position is one which the 
students control, and the administra
tion has nothing to do with it. The 
position is of course, a salaried one, 
and this, is met jointly by the Stu
dent Activities Committee, and the 
Board of Athletic Control.
FOOTBALL MEN AT BANQUET
Continued from Page 1
pressing his sorrow at being delayed 
but wishing to congratulate them in 
being the best team Tech has ever 
had. -i
The squad accompanied Coach Stef
fen and his family to the depot where 
they were met by over two hundred 
Tech men filled with Tech spirit for 
as Coach Steffen, Mrs. Steffen and 
Fritzy passed between two lines of 
men, through the station under the 
gate and into the train the old three 
times three rang out and echoed and 
re-echoed through the building. It is 
the hopes of every Tech man that the 
time will speed when he, a man whose 
heart is in the work, may return 
again.
Good Clothes Cheaper
Clothiers, Tailors, Hatters 
Furnishers504-506 Federal St., N.S.
MUDYFF IEULF.-EA.
WM. F. DIEHL, Design School
Violinist. Exceptionally good music 
for dances and receptions
W. O. BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Streets 
Phones 1603161 Schenley j
Special Prices to Tech Students |
75 YEARS ON WOOD 8TKEET
Soft felts are still in season.
But you will want a derby to wear with the winter overcoat
And on occasions when the soft hat would not be in good taste
Among the many good makes are the 
celebrated Knox derbies, which we be
lieve to be unsurpassed for quality in all the world
Knox Derbies, $5. Other 
makes, including our own 
hand-made derbies, $3 and $4Paulson Bros. Co.
515 WOOD STREET
Barnard College has been forced by 
The 1915 enrollment at Dartmouth 
jhows an increase of 75 over last year. 
Last years enrollment was 1313.

---------------------------------------------------

Gtye Partait5
P. LUDEBULHL  iON
Shoes and Hosiery
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair
Penn and Frankstown 
FOOTPRINTS LEAD TO DETECTION
The standing of a man is as often as not told 
by his footwearif he is careless of that, he s apt 
to be negligent of more important things. If you 
will buy your shoes here, you may be certain of 
looking all right, feeling all right ar.d impressing 
others with the fact that you are all right. 
Our Shoes are built by some of the most repre
sentative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
Special Mens Dept.
Applied Industries
Last Friday evening, 150 members 
of the Duquesne Light Companys 
section of the National Electric Light 
Association were the guests of the 
School of Applied Industries. Fol
lowing a short talk by Dean Connel
ly in Room 104, they were shown 
through the Industries School and 
Machinery Hall, members of the Avo 
Club acting as guides. Later, they 
were entertained by a play in the De
sign School Theatre.
Students of the Industries School 
will take an active part in Electrical 
Prosperity Week, to be held the week 
beginning November 29th. The Avo 
Club is arranging for a pageant, in 
connection for the big street parade, 
in which the Industries School will 
be well represented. A week ago last 
Friday Mr. M. C. Turpin, chairman 
of the Prosperity Week Lecture Bu
reau, and Mr. J. L. Corbett, chairman 
of the Parade Committee, addressed 
the Avo Club in regard to the doings 
during Electrical Prosperity Week, 
which will without doubt be a big 
event in Pittsburgh.
Just how the expenses incurred in 
tagging that little Bull to the Pitt 
game are to be met is a query. Sev
eral spirited enthusiasts of our school 
provided something different and 
went deep into their pockets to show 
S A I was on the job. Let us all 
come forward and help these fellows 
meet the bill. A dime would turn the 
trick.
The Assembly last Wednesday 
ended with a reel of Tech films which 
to the plebes was entirely new. This 
reel represented just a small part of 
the pictures taken about the schools 
at large and showed the various ac
tivities on Field and Qualification 
Days. Whenever the entire film is 
shown, it would be a mighty instruc
tive and interesting occasion for the 
freshies to view them. We thank 
Gloekler for handling the machine.
Great preparations have been made 
for Carnegie Day. The Dean talked 
to S A I students at the Assembly 
and it is to be hoped that the im
pression his words made regarding 
the necessity of remaining in Pitts
burgh over this celebration will cause 
each and every one of us to be on 
hand.
Every shop is to be going full blast 
for inspection of visitors.
At the dance Friday night the Victrola won by the Tech boys on Hal
loween held full sway.
There was much comment about 
the Pitt students having marked the 
football score in the most propitious 
spot of our entire group, viz., in front 
of the students entrance in S. A. I. 
building. They did the same trick 
last year. Seems this childish form 
of school spirit should have been laid 
away in the grade school days.
The Assembly is soon to have a
musical program. We recall a sim
ilar event last year when Bobby Vey 
entranced us with his Dry Schlitzello, 
Sam McNulty with his golden voice, 
Merkers splendid singing and Schtz 
at the piano.
-----
The new drawing rooms and 
foundry lecture halls are now being 
used.
Maguire, last years Bagpipe edi
tor-in-chief, wrote recently from Se
attle where he is engaged in the print
ing business.
Soon time to have a purely Indus
tries School song, and^ cheers also. 
Some musically inclined student could 
reap considerable laurels by compos
ing a lively song with original music.
A unanimous vote of good wishes 
to both our Founder and Uncle John 
Brashear was carried at the last As
sembly.
UPPER PLEBE DANCE
Continued from Page 1 
Very few, if any, Plebes, were with
out young ladiesand some of them 
were very young. Promptly at eight 
the Tech Student Orchestra sent the 
couples off on a lively one-step and it 
was only after one oclock that the 
Home Sweet Home waltz greeted the 
jolly dancers ears. Numerous facul
ty representatives were present and 
engaged in whiling away several 
hours among their proteges. During 
the intermission Red Lord outdid him
self in seeing to it that the punch
bowl was working properly together 
with supplying all with refreshments. 
To the committee in charge of the 
affair must be given much credit in 
bringing to its successful close this 
annual dance to the plebes. Social 
events of this nature help materially 
in making our school life mean more 
to us and also relieve that mental 
strain under which the plebe in par
ticular is so apt to place himself. 
Hoxworth, Wean, Red Miller, Wal
lace, Robinson, Movie Gloekler, 
Reuben and Lord were the lads at 
the helm and the appreciation of their 
efforts can only be expressed by the 
grand success with which the 16, 17 
and 18 dance terminated.
MR. STEFFEN WILL RETURN 
NEXT FALL.
The administration announced the 
day before the Pitt game that Walter 
C. Steffen had been re-engaged to 
coach the football team of 1916. A 
more popular announcement could 
not have been made.
This insures success in the most im
portant department of the sport for 
it is the belief of every Tech student 
that it would be impossible to place 
the coaching of the team in better 
hands.
Great things may now be antici
pated for next season. With only two 
of this years eleven lost by gradua
tion and with Mr. Steffen returning, 
an even more successful team than 
this years may be prophesied.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $2,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDRY
TRENTON AVENUE WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone. Wilkins 23
STUDENTS
LOOSE LEAF 
NOTE BOOK38c
Sixe 4%x7% inches. Bound in Full 
Black Cloth with 80 sheets paper
The Business Mans Dep.t Store
The Royal
TYPEWRITER
36 YEARS
is a period of sufficient length in busi
ness to carry with it a guarantee of 
effort and satisfaction. For this number of years we have been fitting suc
cessfully thousands of people with glasses. The fact that we have been suc
cessful leads ue to believe that our 
method is right. We examine the eyes thoroughly free of charge. We design 
the glasses specially for each case and 
we make them in our own perfectly 
equipped shop. We guarantee results.BUCHBINDER & CO.
OPTICIANS 
512 PENN AVENUE
GOTHIC THE NEW
Ai^SSC&W
2 for 25C COBJLC2
IT FITS THE CRAVAT
Mellon National Bank
510-51 4 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital, Surplus and Profits $9,000,000
OVERCOATS 40c Sponged and Pressed 60c Cleaned and Pressed 
J. GUTER
C. 1. T. P. O. Room 102, W. Dorm.
CAM ERA PHON T7 THEATER -E/
6202 Penn Avenue
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY
3606 FORBES STREET
01. iH. #tauft
3702 FORBES STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA.
STATIONER a NEWSDEALER
PHONE 9076 SCHENLEY

---------------------------------------------------

fiSlje Cariati
 ? ?! Design School Notes Ii J
THE PITT PLEBES.
The form of "trial by jury" has wid
ened its scope and no longer is ap
plicable to the Design Plebes and men 
of the draughting room alone. Last 
week three of the University of Pitts
burghs freshmen were handcuffed by 
a few of our first year men and taken 
from their studies to stand trial be
fore a Design assemblage and sopho
more jury as a result of Pitts 
would-be joke of painting the result 
of the Pitt-Tech game upon our 
building in luminous yellow letters. 
The boys, although at first somewhat 
afrighted, soon fell into the spirit of 
our intent and after a trial under the 
censorship of Judge Wigler with Pink 
Speigle defending, were dismissed 
with a word of caution and a hand
shake of goodfellowship.
Tuesday another general dance was 
held in the Design lobby. These 
dances have resulted as a continua
tion of the Thousand Mile Walk 
held previous to the Medieval Ball, 
and have crystallized into one of gen
eral pleasure.
The Elder Brother, a play filled 
with keen interest and realistic de
light, was admirably presented by the 
Dramatic students last week. Prior 
to the play Mr. Hamerschlag ad
dressed a few words of welcome to 
those present.
Glory of the Morning, an Indian 
play of the life in the woods of the 
Great Lakes region in Michigan, was 
also presented twice. It is filled with 
the presentation of natures charms 
and gives us an insight into the lives 
and feelings of these early people. 
The stage setting for this short play 
was charmingpresenting to the aud
ience an exact and happy conception 
of the Indian life and wigwam.
The Class C men completed one 
of the most unique order problems 
ever given by the Beaux Art Society. 
Its esquisse regulations required the 
presentation of a plan, section and 
elevation for a memorial tablet erect
ed in memory of the men who lost 
their lives at Vera Cruz. Although 
Bob Spring was the first Class C 
man to cut off the rest were close be
hind him and instructors Barney and 
Ellington were highly pleased with 
the presentations.
THE ELDER BROTHER.
A version of John Fletchers The 
Elder Brother, adapted to the mod
ern stage, was presented by the De
partment of Dramatic Arts, School 
of Applied Design, before a discrim
inating and appreciative audience 
The Stage and Play Societyon 
Thursday evening.
This production scores another artristic triumph for this department 
and those most intimately concerned 
in visualizing this old drama. The 
stage-setting was most appropriate 
and had everything to do with lend
ing atmosphere to the playone did
not need to wait to be talked into 
the period of this dramathe eyes 
drank it in from the curtains, even be
fore they parted to admit The Pro
logue, (Miss Inez Krebs) who pro
claimed a Welcome to no vulgar 
play and somehow one had no feel
ing of strangeness with these people 
it might have all been only yester
dayanother proof that the thing was 
well done.
In the rather large cast of sixteen 
some characters stood out in bold 
reliefnotably Frederic Steens 
CharlesHoward Pattersons Miramout and Frederic McConnells 
Andrew.
Angelina (Miss Annabel Ram
sey) has no rival, being practi
cally the only female part in the play, 
so all the honors necessarily go to 
her in the role of dutiful and obedi
ent daughter. The part holds little 
opportunity for the display of unusual 
talent and the ladies clothing (so 
fearfully and wonderfully made) is 
perhaps the strongest impression one 
carries away in regard to Angelina, 
unless it be her precision of utterance.
Mr. Howard Patterson, as the irasake but lovable Miramoutwhose 
devotion to his erudite nephew, gave 
rise to much merriment, secured to 
himself almost at once the interested 
attention of his auditors. His inter
pretation of this crusty old gentle
man was one of the strongest char
acterizations in the cast. One will 
always hope to find Mr. Pattersons 
name on the programme if this is the 
usual measure of his talent. He is a 
new-comer and made himself very 
welcome in this performance.
Mr. C. Frederic Steen, as the elder 
brother, was most happily casthe 
has just that touch of seriousness 
which makes for interest whether off 
or on the stage. His work has be
come so even that it is almost trite 
to say it was well donethe surprise 
would be, if it were otherwise. He 
has taught his audience to expect only 
his best effort in whatever he under
takes.
Mr. Frederic McConnell deserves 
special mention for his excellent work 
in the character of Andrew, servant 
to Charles. With him the action 
opens and there is scarcely a moment 
lost by him while he treads the boards 
whether silent or speaking he acts 
in the finer sense of that termhe 
makes himself an essential part of the 
scene, he is convincing. His diction 
shows a decided improvement over 
last season, he has ceased to bite off 
his w;ords. Mr. McConnell is grow
ing artisticallyone questions wheth
er he left anything to be desired in his 
portrayal of faithful Andrew. His 
make-up was alluringin shortthis 
applies to the entire castthe make
up and costuming was by no means 
the least interesting part of the per
formance.
Mr. Harold Munis, as Eustace, 
the gay gallant, wore his gorgeous 
clothes with approved swagger, and 
his hirsute adornment with becoming
ness. His volubility and gaiety gave 
the required bouyancy to secure a bal
ance of types. Mr. Munis becomes the 
ideal dandythe courtier who sweeps
the floor gracefully with his plumed 
charpeau whenever occasion offers 
as Valere in Tartuffe.
The other gentlemen of this calibre, 
Egremont and Cowsy, were most 
proper silly assesone really re
gretted not seeing more of them.
Mr. Arleigh Williamsons Brisac 
was interpreted with ease and a cer
tain dignity and showed a very decided 
improvement in diction over his work 
in Tartuffe. He read his lines most 
acceptably.
The other members of the cast fur
nished excellent support and all reflect 
great credit upon Mr. B. Iden Paynes 
coaching.
One came away quite happy over 
the privilege of having been present 
and with a very pleasing picture of tha 
time and its manners in his memory 
as also, with a certain gratitude to 
John Fletcher, the author.
Nov. 19, 1915. A Student.
*vZvy v2yvAA ZNTIOLSN, 239 SCHENLEYand STORAGE CO.
Moving, Packing and Storing of F urniture 
and Pianos. Geneial Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depots
4616-18-20 HENKY ST., PITTSBURGH
Glasses for Students
Our specialty is to fit spectacles, Come and get our. judgment as to whether or not you need glasses.D. T. REED & CO.
OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS426 Penn Avenue. Pittsburgh
Modern Dances
CLASSES AND PRIVATER. E. JACQUES
(All CASTLES Work) 
Forbes and Craig Sts., Pittsburgh
The Goal of Cigarette Perfection
for men who prefer to roll their own cigarettes, can 
only be attained with Riz La Croix "papers. Because 
the supreme Quality of these world-famous cigarette 
papers insures absolute smoke-satisfaction at all times 
and on all occasions.
(Pronounced: REE-LAH-KROY)
FAMOUS CIGARETTE PAPERS
Give the best results with any tobacco. Smooth, round, firm cigarettes that hold their shaperolled Cin a few seconds without bother or fuss. 1
The extreme thinness and lightness of Riz La Croix make cigarette rolling easya real pleasure. You get the pure flavor of the tobacco  no "paper taste in the smoke
beCaUSe COmbuS\\ O' Two interest-tion is perfect. \ \\ inS illustrated BookYv 8 one abut RIZ LANaturally adhesive.. CROIX Cigarette Papers, the otherbecause made of best ?howing how to  Roll Your Own _ V cigarettes  sent anywhere m U. S. on re-flax-lineil a pure vegequest. Address The American Tobacco Companyvtable product. Room 1401, 484 Broome Street, N. Y.
FREE

---------------------------------------------------

h? tartan?
I Science School Notes
STUDENTS GIVE INTERESTING 
TALKS.
Mho Club Meeting a Great Success.
On Wednesday, November 17, the 
Student Section of the A. I. E. E. 
held its first meeting wherein all the 
papers read were by members. The 
success of this meeting no doubt au
gurs well for others of a similar na
ture in the future.
Mr. J. P. Reynolds gave a very in
teresting and instructive talk on the 
Electrification of the Butte Anacon
da Ry. Co. The paper was comment
ed upon very favorably. Messrs. Lee 
and Wohlgemuth gave the report on 
the Pittsburgh Section Meeting. Mr. 
Lee spoke on the work in developing 
the telephone line in general and 
showed his familiarity by a frequent 
use of diagrams. Mr. Wohlgemuth 
g.ive v short talk on the new Grant 
Hxcl ar.ge which was visltcl 011 No
vember 9.
The president appointed a commit
tee to report on the important fea
tures in the current literature. The 
committee appointed is: Messrs. Ettle, Drummond, Gower, Wohlgemuth 
anc Stevenson. These m -n wiH re
port at every meeting on the various 
magazines.
The December meeting of the A. I.
E. E. will undoubtedly be one of the 
most interesting and instructive of 
any yet held. On this occasion Mr. 
Allen S. Young will address the Sec
tion on ,Electrical Measuring De
vices. Mr. Young is connected with 
the Leeds and Northrupp people and 
is thoroughly at home with his sub
ject. Mr. Young delivered the same 
talk at Purdue a short time ago and 
although his talk lasts only about 40 
minutes yet he was kept 3 hours an
swering questions. The chairman of 
the Section has informed Mr. Young 
that he wlil have to stay here at least 
Zy2 hours and perhaps longer. This 
means that everybody must come out 
as an attendance of 60 members is 
promised. Watch the bulletin board 
for the date and dont make any en
gagement for December 4, when the 
A. I. E. E. Banquet occurs. See Sec
retary Gibson at once if you want to 
attend.NIGHT SCHOOL SMOKER
Continued from Page 1 
our own resources, the Tech spirit 
prevailed, and an unexpectedly large 
fund of entertaining talent was un
earthed.
A well-laden table surrendered to 
a spirited attack, and the pipe of 
peace, anecdotes, impromptu speech
es, quartette selections, and a sketch,
Half the style of a tailored suit is lost, unless the suit is kept perfectly clean and nicely pressed. We have cleaned and pressed so many ladies tailored suits that we have become experts at it. and return your garments so nicely finished as to elicit praise from even the most critical. Send your suit to us frequently. J. E. T. Shuman, 3911 Forbes St. Adv.
made up the bill.
A short halt was called during the 
evening to take advantage of the rep
resentative nature of the gathering 
to do a little business, Mr. David W. 
Allan, third year 'President, being 
unanimously appointed Night Science 
Editor of the Tartan. ,
SENIOR-PLEBE FOOTBALL 
GAME.
Last night the biggest amateur 
football game of the season, the 
Science Senior-Plebe struggle was 
staged on Tech Field.
At the time this goes to press, in
terest is running high, with the odds 
favoring the Seniors, who under the 
leadership of their quarterback, Ash
worth, athletic manager for the Sen
iors, have been practicing consistent
ly for a week. Several trick forma
tions are well worked out, and real 
football is certain.
THIRD Y. M. C. A. MEETING. 
HELD SUNDAY.
Speech on The Young Mans Relig
ion, by M. C. C. Johnson.
A real treat was given those who 
attended the meeting of the Y. M. C. 
A. in room 104, the lecture room of 
Applied Industries. Mr. C. C. John
son spoke on a Young Mans Re
ligion, and gave one of the most in
teresting talks which have been heard 
for some time. Being at the head 
of the Norse Industrial School he is 
in a position to well understand young 
men.
A Young Mans Religion, said he, 
is not the religion which makes out 
of him a pious and seemingly old man, 
it is the religion which he can grow 
into and add to himself as nature per
mits. He said that if a young man 
went into religion with the idea of 
self benefit he usually did not stick, 
but, once he went into it with the 
idea of helping others, he would never 
let go.
Altogether his speech was a ver$ 
expressive one and thoroughly en
joyed by all.
Joy just hangs on every puff
How a pipe of Tux does bubble over with good 
cheer and sunny comfort I Theres something about 
the mellow taste of Tux that stirs a smokers soul. 
It gets into his inside works, sweetens his disposition, 
and gives him that perky, chesty feeling, like a highstepper trotting down the avenue.
^Tuxedo
The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette
Men who never smoked a pipe before are now smoking Tuxedo, because they have found that Tuxedo is the mildest tobacco made, and that it is the one tobacco that never irri
tates mouth, throat or nerves.
You simply cannot get another tobacco made by the Tuxedo Processand thats the original of all processes for removing every trace of harshness and bite from the tobacco. It has been widely imitated, but never duplicated.
Try Tuxedo for a week, and 
youll get acquainted with the sweetest, mildest, mellowest smoke in 
the world.
YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE
Convenient, glassine wrapped, * 
moisture-proof pouch . . OC
Famous green tin with gold 1 A 
lettering, curved to fit pocket I V/C
In Tin Humidors, 40 c and 80c 
In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
There will be a meeting next Sun
day at 3:15 P. M. for the election of 
officers, and reports and discussion 
of the work done by the committee 
appointed to frame a constitution will 
be submitted. It will be a most im
portant meeting and everyone who 
can, is urged to attend.
On December 5th Rev. James E. 
Noicross, of the Shady Avenue Bap
tist Church, will deliver an address.
HOCKEY AND SWIMMING 
PROSPECTS AT TECH.
Formation of Both Teams More 
Promising Than Ever.
The long talked of establishing of 
a hockey team at Tech comes nearer 
a realization this year than ever be
fore. Re-establishment might better 
be the word used for in the years gone 
by Tech was represented by a hockey 
team, one which vanquished Yale. 
But this sport fell through when ice
Continued on Page 8
For EATS Come to US
We want to furnish the Baked Goods 
for your Frat. May we?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the IROQUOIS BLOCK. Oakland
IFlmurrs Occasions 
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland Ave.
FOR RENT. Tuxedos, Frocks, 
Silk Hats, Etc. See our agent, W. P. 
LIPPINCOTT, Soph Civil. First class 
stock. Prices reasonable.
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
406 PGH. LIFE BIDG. Phone 1254 Grant
HOTEL SCHENLEY| BARBER SHOP AND POOL ROOM
NEW TABLES 
AND NEW MANAGEMENT
Enterprise Cleaning Company
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work in Ladies, Children's and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
401 EAST END TRUST BLDG., PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland : Works 4912 Milan
A regular 35c Hair Cut for 25c
Tech Barber Shop
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS

---------------------------------------------------

BEh? (TartanVARSITY DOWNS W. R.
Continued from Page 1
time after time like a Busy Bertha' 
and captured the field pieces in the 
rear before they were well lined. 
Whitey Hellstrom played up to his 
high standard and kept the old pep 
ever evident in the line work.
Tech Rooting Again Features. 
Merrill and his assistants again 
shone on Saturday and the yells and 
songs showed the Tech spirit that is 
largely responsible for the success
ful season that has just passed. Mer
rill is one of the hard workers for the 
institution and deserved credit and 
support in all that he undertakes for 
it is sure to be beneficial to our Alma 
Mater.
Students Laugh At Mud.
During the intermission between 
halves the cheerleaders worked over
time. Headed by Techs brass band, 
about a hundred students laughed at 
the idea of blemishing their polished 
shoes and marched about the field. 
Once around was enough, however. 
Another innovation at Tech field 
which will help greatly in the effort 
to bring Pitt and Tech into closer 
relations was three cheers offered by 
the Tech students for the Gold and 
Blue, whose foot ball squad were 
spectators in the grandstand.
Visitors Play Spirited Ball.
The visitors displayed a fighting 
resistance throughout the game and 
were never passed with ease. Denaple the speedy runner who caught 
Weinbergs forward and scored from 
it; Weinberg who passed the forwards 
in a spectacular manner; and Little 
Craigin on left end were the stars 
for the visitors and did much to add 
to the interesting features of the 
game. The high tackling that is so 
much in evidence in the Ohio game 
could well be eliminated as it con
stitutes unnecessary rough play and 
is accountable for many of the in
juries; and also for the benefit of the 
visitors, we will say that as a system, 
it renders the tacklers more liable to 
be taken out by interference as we 
witnessed Saturday, and is not always 
so effective as the clean, low, hard 
tackling of our own representatives.
Kesner Injured.
Sunny Kesner, Techs aggressive 
and spectacular quarterback, suffered 
an internal injury when tackled while 
carrying the ball early in the second 
Period and had to be assisted from 
+^e field. At first it was thought that 
he merely had turned his ankle again, 
a recurrent injury that has bothered 
him all season, but later, in the -gym
nasium, it was found that he had been 
hurt about the body. It is not be
lieved that his hurts will prove seri
ous.
McSorlev, who relieved Kesner at 
*^e quarterback position, ran the team 
in good stvle during the three per
iods. in which he worked, driving it 
to it*? final three touchdowns. Kutz, 
t^e Skibo^ lanky right tackle, was 
tpken out in the first auarter, Holzworth replacing him. Williams start
ed at left tackle in place of McFeaters. who, for several weeks, has been 
unable to play because of water on 
the knee.
Thus, during the major part of the 
contest, Tech played with three sub
stitute players in its lineup. Later, 
others were sent in, but Reserve regu
lars also were replaced late in the 
game. For Reserve it must be said 
that it also had several regulars miss
ing from its opening lineup, in Mc
Connell at left half and Francy at 
right end. The substitutes for both 
teams performed in a highly capable 
manner.
Tlie Lineup.TECH30. ^ Reserve6.Lauer, Capt.......L. B.i.............. CraiginWilliams................Li. T................... EwartKelley......................L. G........................ HoleHellstrom..................C.............................. ErbFletcher.................R. G...................... StackKutz.............-..........R. T... Taylor, Capt.Gibson......................R. E..................... ExcellKesner........... . . . . .Q. B................. SchueleMarshall'.................L. H......... McConnellFinlay......................R, H................ DenapleAltdoerffer.............F. B............. WeinbergScore by periods:Tech .................................7 10 6 730Western Reserve . . 0 0 0 6 6SubstitutionsMcCaughey for Kutz, McSorley for Kesner, Young for Kelley, Holzworth for McCaughey, Levy for Gibson, Trautman for Kelley, Pohlman for Ewart, Ewart for Pohlman, Pohlman for Ewart, High for Craigin, Ammerman for Hole, Weinberg for Schuele, Maltz for Weinberg, Hiles for Stitt.TouchdownsAltdoerffer 3, Marshall 1, Denaple.Goals from touchdownKesner, Lauer, Altdoerffer.Field goal-Altdoerffer.Time of periods15 minutes.Referee - Knox, Yale. Umpire Mauthe, Penn State. Head linesman Ford, Lafayette.HOCKEY AND SWIMMING
Continued from Page 7 
skating at Duquesne Garden was 
abolished.' But now comes another 
opportunity with the opening of the 
Winter Garden this year. The only 
question that prevents the organiza
tion of a team is the permission of the 
Winter Garden authorities for Tech 
to use the ice. The Winter Garden 
being a new adventure, they dare not 
be hasty in coming to terms. The 
hockey practice would monopolize the 
ice, practically entirely and the most 
likely hour would be late in the after
noon, probably from five to six. This 
would be after the crowd of the after
noon had left the Garden.
Already Cornell has asked for a 
game during the holidays and little 
trouble would be required to form a 
good schedule should the team ma
terialize. Already many fellows have 
expressed their willingness to come 
out and the organization of a hockey 
team will be a great advancement in 
athletics at Tech.
The Swimming Team is another 
much talked of possibility this year. 
Such an organization would be a new 
adventure in the athletic line for here
tofore this branch has never been 
pursued or considered very much. 
But Coach Dull, of the Track Team, 
can secure the use of the P. A. A. 
swimming pool this year and with 
such a facility the team is well nigh 
a sure thing. The only drawback is 
that only a few fellows, limited in 
number, would be allowed in the tank. 
This means that unless our material 
is of fairly good quality it would be 
a foolish waste of time to organize a 
team. It is very likely that trials 
will be announced in a few days in 
order that this quality may be tested. 
Undoubtedly there are more than 
enough good swimmers in Tech to 
form a team and they should all come 
out for the trials and show their wares 
to the best advantage. With swimCITY OFFICE 
631 PENN AVENUE
EAST END OFFICE 
S. HIGHLAND AVE. AND BAUM BLVD
OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO.
PITTSBURGHS OLDEST AND LARGEST 
DYEING AND CLEANING WORKS
Private Branch Exchange Main Office nnd Works
Call Hiland 1 138 Cor. Bryant, St. Clair aud Mellon Sts
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
W. C. VALENTINE
Resident Tech Salesman for 
MEEHAN-RANKIN CO., Inc., of Philadelphia
Excellence without extravagance
~~J rNYTH1NG that a Tech student may desire in the way ^ of FRATERNITY JEWELRY. Rings, Pins, 
Athletic Medals, Silver Cups, etc., may be had without leaving 
the campus.
We are leaders in Dance Programs 
high class Engraving and Stationery
Always Around the School
TOR BGS-L CEAN( B-EFF(EfyrtBlmaH (Earba 
(Ealfitiiara :: SimiflttPB
PERSONAL GREETING CARDS 
ORDER NOW 
VARSI 2930 TYAISDIO
MARION V. NEEPERManager
ming and hockey teams successfully 
established this year athletics will 
have taken a forward step seldom 
equalled.
The Palace of Education at the 
Panama-Pacific International Exposi
tion rewarded the Massachusetts Ag
ricultural Colege for its work in edu
cation.
Ready for Inspection
HOLIDAY GOODS
Christmas Cards 
Correspondence Stationery 
Leather and Brass Goods 
Writing Sets 
Checkers, Chess 
Diaries, Calendars 
Engraved Invitations 
Announcements
CARDS. Foresight in ordering 
your personal Greeting Cards for 
the holidays will save you that 
last-minute rush.William G. Johnston Company
429 WOOD ST.. AT DIAMOND
The turf at the Stadium in Prince
ton is being destroyed by grub
worms.
