The Newspaper of Carnegie-Melion University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 3, September 21, 1982
Two students arrested 
for $40,000 thefts
W*' '*
Sfen'Willi-frjfi:i:i... S' * j
tion of earth dams, nudear power plants 
and other industrial facilities.
He is a member of the American Society 
of Civil Engineers and is a registered profes
sional engineer. Christiano is the author or 
coauthor of more than 30 technical papers
Paul P. Christiano, professor of dvil engi
neering since 1974, has been appointed asso
ciate dean of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Christiano came to CMU after six years 
on the faculty of the Department of Civil 
and Mineral Engineering at the University 
of Minnesota. He earned his bachelors, 
masters and doctors degrees from CMU.
Christiano has conduct! research in a 
broad range of areas, including applied 
mechanics, structural engineering and geotechnical engineering. He has been a con
sultant on numerous domestic and foreign 
projects involving the design and construcKappa Sig phones 
for WQED drive
If you were watching WQED last Tues
day night you may have seen some familiar 
faces answering telephones for QEDs 
annual membership drive.
Between 8 p.m. and midnight, a group of 
over 30 brothers and little sisters of Kappa 
Sigma volunteered their time to help the 
Pittsburgh community. President Todd 
Whiteside aid that this is the first erf a few 
proposed service projects by the fraternity
photo by George Tsao*WuComdon; Last issue we mistaken I \ reported 
that Neil Blndstotk is the head of Ph vsiial Plant.Sorority rush ended last week with a final round erf dinners. The Tri-Delis had 18 pledges. 
Kappa Alpha Theta had 15, Delta Gamma had 8, Kappa Kappa Gamma had 7, and Chi
By MONICA J. CELUOTartan News Editor
Two students have been apprehended in 
the theft of over $40,000 in equipment, but 
no criminal charges are being pressed, said 
Chief of Security Robert Fadzen.
David Hlasnik, who graduated in May, 
and Robert Wagner, currently a CMU 
student, have been accused of stealing 
audio-visual and computer equipment 
from several locations on campus this 
summer. The case is being handled by 
CMUs judicial process.
Hlasnik and Wagner cooperated after 
they were apprehended, said Fadzenso
we were able to recover most of the 
property. Fadzen added that some of the 
property had been found at the Delta 
Upsilon house.
The students gained entry to the 
burglarized offices by several sets of keys in 
Hlasniks posession. I wish I knew how 
they got them, Fadzen said. There were no 
cases of forced entry, he added.
The judicial process is still in progress, 
Fadzen said, so we dont know what 
actions will be taken yet. Because of their 
cooperation, criminal charges are not being 
pressed.
Dorm servicesDesk attendants sell goods
m
m
photo by Gene Yonish
Religion takes on a new dimension for some students. This man spent last Wednesday 
carrying a cross and preaching on campus.
By PAULINE WENTartan Staffwriter
In the past few weeks you may have been 
stopped once or twice by people wearing^ 
blue shirts sitting in front of the entranceways of More wood. Donner, or Mudge. 
Who are these people and what are they 
doing?
The figures in the blue shirts are part of 
the Residence Hall Staff and they help com
prise a popular new service on the CMU 
campus--the resident service desk.
The idea was conceived last year by Tony 
Martin, head of Housing, and members of 
the Housing Office. The purpose of the new' 
service desk is to offer students something 
other than the promise of security. There
fore, this year the three desks-located in 
Morewood, Mudge, and Donner-have 
expanded. They nowr sell laundry tokens 
and stamps and give change and refunds, in 
addition to their old duties, such as giving 
phone numbers and helping people withChristiano named associate dean
and has been a reviewer for several scholarly 
journals and government funding agendes.
Christiano has served on several college 
and university committees and was chair
man of the Graduate Admissions Commit
tee in the Department of Civil Engineering.
lost or broken keys.
There has been a terrific response, espe
cially since weve had no formal publidty, 
commented Joe Guirola, who heads the pro
gram. Word of mouth has really been 
doing it. Guirola, a sophomore in MCS, is 
responsible for replenishing and checking 
the cash flow in the cash boxes daily. 
Hopefully, after we get formal advertising, 
the response wall be even better, he said.
The organization has been vastly 
improved this year, said Mike Monroe, a 
Morewood Desk Assistant. In all, there are 
about sixty to seventy resident hall assist
ants, or desk assistants, employed. They are 
supervised by three head residentsJohn 
Venzon in Mudge House, Bill Sifak in More
wood Gardens, and Ed Slosky in Donner 
Hall--who, in turn, report to Mike Murphy 
in the Housing Office.
The service desk is still in its early stages. 
We are trying to think of other services to 
provide, said Jem Marks, assistant director 
of housing. Presently, tickets for the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra are being sold 
for three dollars a ticket at the desks. We 
always welcome new ideas, he added.
The desks at Mudge and Donner are open 
2 p m. to 8 a.m. Monday through Thursday 
and 2 p.m. Friday to 8 a.m. Monday The 
Morewood desk is open from 5 p.m. to 8 
a.m. Monday through Friday and 5 p.m. 
Friday to 8 a,m, Monday.
In this issue:
News
Gray matter may be remodeled 
AMS head resigns ...........
Features
Goodyear Blimp is back ......
Beating the system ...........
Entertainment
Cheap Tricks album reviewed. 
Roddenberry comes to CMU ..
. page 6 
. page 8
First soccer toum. a success .  
Tartans brat Grow City 35-14

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Our lost idols: Who do we look to now?
A week ago today it was announced that 
Princess Grace of Monaco died. A few weeks 
before, the public learned of Ingrid Bergmans 
death as well as Henry Fondas.
It can be safely assumed that these few peo
ple were universally admired. They repres
ented poised individuals; they kept the essence 
of natural class about them; they captured and 
retained the public respect throughout their 
lives.
More than anything else, these celebrities 
were idols  of teenagers, stockbrokers, drama 
students, housewives, and us at The Tartan.
The media followed all the memorable as well as seemingly insignificant events in their lives, and we, the public, gobbled up every story printed.
Most movie stars are our idols  by virtue of good looks, treasurable performances, or maybe an enticing lifestyle. But to become an idol  a true, undaunted image  a person must combine ingredients of poise, dedication, intelligence, ambition, honesty, self-respect 
and self-confidence without the slightest hint of callous or inhuman intent. An idol must be able to feel, too  no emotion excluded, since life is based on a chain of emotional reactions.
A feeling of exhilaration and hope comes over us when we watch others we tremendously revere. It is a kind of anticipation for the prospect of bettering ourselves. Idols are really goals to us, and we need them to sustain interest in our own personal improvement.
It is a coincidence that the three aforementi
oned figures are movie stars. Each had his or her own personal trait that was most esteemed. Fonda had his truthful practicality; Bergman, her genuine talent; and Grace Kelly, her quintessential elegance.But idols can be found around us too.And, as CMU student David Golden pointed out in last weeks Tartan, the late Professor Julius Ashkin of the MCS physics department had his own special quality  that of being an effective, devoted teacher.As our idols must fall subject to that insurmountable fate  mortality  we must inevitably find relacements for them too.Yet, maybe someday ... if we achieve our long-respected idols greatness, someone might say about us, Hey, I want to be like you.
Official president's column
"Dear Nate/' Please write about real campus matters
By Nate Solano
Dear Nate,
My name is Cindi, and I am a freshman H 
and SS major. 1 am thin, blond, and about 
five foot six (my friends tell me I should be a 
model but I wish to pursue a career in His
tory). My problem is that 1 seem to be having 
trouble meeting males on campus, and I 
wondered if you might...
Almost had you going there, didnt I? Okay, 
so I didnt fool you at all, but I wrote that to 
hopefully introduce a new aspect to my 
column known as Dear Nate.
You see occasionally I get real 
hard up for a topic and this way 
I can periodically insert a letter 
to take up some space. I dont 
care what the letter content is as long as it is
short, concise, and printable.
Please dont rrfeke me write my own let
ters, just send them through campus mail to 
Nate, care of Student Senate, Skibo.
Now concerning real campus matters you 
may ask, Why hasnt Nate addressed any 
real campus matters recently?
The truth is that rumors have been circu
lating fiercely, and invariably I must proThe Constitution: a legal tinker toy?
By Stuart Shapiro
Where have they gone? In the midst of 
what is supposedly the great conservative 
tide of the Reagan years, Ive been desper
ately searching the ranks of Congress  
which can get pretty rank  for 
some genuine conservatives. 
Not that Im particularly conserO ' vative myself, I just get a trifle 
nervous when playing games with the 
nations fundamental legal document 
becomes politically fashionable.
Which is why I was so relieved last week 
when Senator Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) and the 
good ole boys of the New Right, despite 
some lobbying by the Great Communicator, 
failed to force an end to debate on some 
proposed anti-abortion legislation. As a 
result, not only was the legislation shelved, 
but more importantly, Senator Orrin Hatch 
(R-Utah) was compelled to temporarily 
withdraw his anti-abortion amendment 
from consideration.
And if the liberals could talk the anti
abortion legislation to death, hopefully they 
can give a proposed school prayer amend
ment the same treatment. Unfortunately, 
prospects for the balanced budget amend
ment arent nearly so gloomy.
Its unfortunate because all these lovely 
little proposals have one thing in common. 
They are all attempts to use the Constitution 
for purposes for which it was never 
intended. Im waiting for more presumed 
conservatives to stick their necks out and 
point out just that. Multiple attempts to 
doc tor the Constitution should strike terror 
into the heart of any real conservative, 
which explains the simply marvelous sight 
of an old guard conservative like Barry 
Goldwater slugging it out with the swee
thearts of the New Right.
(ixiservatives like Goldwater are upset
because they realize that the Constitution is 
no fit place for any of this stuff. Whether or 
not a woman has the right to control her 
own body, religion should be the fourth R 
in the public schools, or a balanced budget 
should be the fiscal Holy Grail is (I beg 
forgiveness from those waging the wars) 
beside the point.
The point being that social values and 
fiscal policy have no place in the Constitution. The documents purpose is to outline 
the fundamental processes of government 
and basic civil liberties. Its function is not to 
enshrine particular social mores or eco
nomic theories. Attempts to use it for that 
purpose rightly scare conservative, liberals, 
and constitutional scholars of every political 
stripe, who wonder what next?
Well, I for one also worry about what 
could be next. So if Ron, Jesse, and the boys 
insist on treating the Constitution like some 
sort of legal tinker toy they can modify 
according to their personal predilections, 
Ill keep rooting for authentic conservatives 
willing to take them on.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
Dept, of EducationStudents addressed on aid
By Edward M. Elmendorf
Newspaper, radio, and television reports 
of substantial cuts in Federal financial aid to 
college students have triggered a barrage of 
phone calls to the U.S. Department of Education in Washington, D.C.
Callers, both students and 
^ parents, are often confused by 
misleading or incomplete infor
mation. Many have expressed fear that the 
government"has let them down; that college 
is no longer affordable.
It is true that student financial assistance 
programs have undergone considerable 
change in the past two years. There have 
been some reductions. Most of the changes, 
however, reflect an effort to return the aid 
programs to their original purpose, which 
was to help students cover the cost of a col
lege education  not to carry the whole 
burden. A successful return to original 
intent will help ensure the survival of these 
aid programs for future students.
Federal financial assistance is divided into 
three categories. Grants are awards of 
money that do not have to be paid back.
Loans are borrowed money which a stu
dent must repay with interest. WorkStudy provides the chance to work and 
earn money to off-set college costs while 
attending classes.
The Pell Grant Program is one of the best 
known of the Federal student aid programs. 
Formerly called the Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grant, Pell is often the first 
source of aid in a package which may be 
composed of other Federal and non-Federal 
sources. In the 1982-83 school year, 2.55 mil
lion students share $2,279,040,000 in Pell 
Grants.
The U.S. Department of Education uses a 
standard formula to determine who quali
fies for Pell Grants. Students should contact 
the college financial aid administrator to 
apply on the free Application for Federal 
Student Aid. This is the form used for all 
Federal student aid programs. The Depart
ment guarantees that each participating 
school will receive the money it needs to pay 
Pell Grants to eligible students.
The Supplemental Educational Opporcontmuad on page 9
duce some facts concerning these issues 
before I may pursue them. Hopefully the 
future will bring columns concerning:
1. The campus alcohol policy (whos 
kidding whom)
2.^ Summer computer crime (whos 
stealing from whom)
3. Next years tuition rates (whos 
stealing from whom)
These seem to be the major student con
cerns at the moment, and Im in the process 
of clarifying them now.
As for my office hours, they are the same 
as always. Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00 and 
Thursday from 7:00 to 9:00. My home 
phone is 687-6404.
Someone really ought to visit me during 
office hours. We might discuss the new alco
hol policy over a beer (or perhaps a glass of 
wine for those originating from better cultu
ral circles). Just walk in, no appointment is 
ever necessary.
Nate Solano is a junior in AMS and is 
President of the Student Government.
Editor-in-Quef........................... Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor...........................Vince Guinto
Business Manager..........................Louise Crocoll
Editorial Assistant.........................Gregg Bossier
News Editor...................................Monica Cellio
Features Editor............................... Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.......................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor........................John Stilwell
Typesetting Manager......................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Assoc Photo Editor........................Gene Yonish
Asst Entertainment.............*... John Cantine
Asst. Sports Editor...........................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Man...................Kathleen Wasch
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret Eissler, 
Andrew Ghali, Ross Serin, Carol Speranza, 
Carsten Thode, Dan Tobias, Bonnie Topi, and 
Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412)578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 21, 1982The TartanPage 3
Religion and brownies don't mix
By Chris Johnston
Last Wednesday, I sauntered into the 
Skibo lobby, and the first thing that 
caught my lecherous eye was a plate of 
brownies surrounded by smiling faces.
Before I even had time to 
haggle about the price of the 
brownies, they were offered to 
me free by one of the smilers.
First, I asked all the usual questions of 
this generous group. The ones that 
normally pop into ones mind: Whats 
wrong with them? Are they.drugged? Was 
I being filmed? All the answers being in 
the negative, I stuffed one in my mouth.
Ha, ha, I like that! Whats wrong with 
them. Guffawed an amiable bearded 
person. So, he said suppressing a titter, 
what religion are you?
Like Adam after finding out that it 
wasnt Quiche Lorraine that Eve was 
serving for supper, I stopped chewing in 
midchomp. My eyes scanned the line of 
tables. In front of each was a sign with a 
different version of Christianity on it.
Only the Hittites and Mormons 
seemed to have missed out on this one. I 
had caught myself in a religious trap, and 
four happy Christians and one Orthodox 
priest in black habiliments sitting at the 
next table were anxiously awaiting my 
answer.
Not wanting to bite the divine hand 
that was feeding me, nor hurt the feelings 
of those smothering me with kindness, 
nor even giye up the possibility of 
depleting the plate of baked goods a little, 
especially since Im a man who will 
worship Satan for a good brownie, I 
chose the middle road and gave a 
sweeping, cogent, intellectual reply.
Uh, Im kind of a pretty hardcore 
agnostic, you know?
They didnt. ^
They did, however, take it from there 
and gave me the Spiel about their 
particular organization, pressed one of 
Christs business cards on me, and tried to 
secure a promise of attendance at their 
next Bible study meeting.
I took their card, but couldnt lie to 
their faces about attending the meeting, 
so I said that I would think about it. I 
pondered the invitation for at least 1 or 2 
seconds as I was leaving.
Before I could get far, the Orthodox 
Priest stopped me to see if I was interested 
in some of the old time depressing 
religion. Hey, listen I havent got any 
brownies but... He lost me there.
The Orthodox Christians simply have 
to learn that if theyre going to make it as
a competitive ecclesiastical force on 
campus, theyll have to replace those 
nasty tasting wafers, and that wine that 
tastes like Mad Dog 20/20 with 
something more modern, like Bremners 
Wafers and Dom Perignon.
Finally, as I was doing that important 
thing I mentioned, which was standing 
in line for half an hour waiting to buy 
tickets to see the Gang of Four, I Couldnt 
help but wonder what Jesus Christ (or 
Christ Jesus depending upon what 
denomination one follows) would think 
if he saw these people arguing among 
themselves when a prospective proselyte 
isnt around.
Would he think that they had gleaned 
the message he was trying to get across, or 
would he sagely shake his head, pound it 
against the wall, then sit down to a holy 
grail full of cold milk and a nice plate of 
brownies and drown his sorrow in his 
stomach?
Chris Johnston is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a 
columnist for The Tartan.
Ptrry tionff e f
oTfURPCK
C-MU
smmj Ai
SAM,
rn (Sill/ BOM if (/JVTOLD lwr/NCW A south of the border experience
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
This summer I worked as a secretary in 
my fathers law office, and it made me get a 
little wistful about my previous two 
summers. I took five years of Spanish in 
high school, and had spent two 
summers away; one in Mexico, 
and one in Spain.
As different as the two coun
tries are, the experiences were very much the 
same: incredibly frightening at first, then 
exciting, then awful (when I had to leave). It 
goes something like this. . .
There is about one week, in the very 
beginning, when you would sell your right 
arm to go home. If perchance you hear 
someone speaking English (be still, my 
heart!), you have to physically force youself 
not to leap on them, yelping, Take me 
home!
You are tempted to leave your foreign 
dwelling in the middle of the night with all 
your Travelers Checks. You plan, more 
times than you would like to count, what is 
the quickest escape route to Englishspeaking territory. Even Canada would be 
OK.
Hell, you could walk over the border into 
the States, couldnt you? Besides, the food 
stinks. Everybody stares at you when you 
talk. Jerks. Why dont they leam English?
After the first pre-suicidal seven days, you 
start to become a litde more aware of what is 
going on around you, as opposed to being 
marinated in self-pity. You begin to catch an 
occasional familiar word or phrase  even 
if its only We go now.
The faces which were once sneering at 
you now are smiling. The food isnt really 
that bad, come to think of it. . .so what if 
youve never had squid? Youre not getting 
any younger, right? But you still refuse to ay 
the peppered octopus. And you have not, 
will not and do not ever intend to drink the 
water.
OK, so you tried the peppered octopus. Is 
that what that was? Tasted just like chicken. 
Hah. You can conquer anything now. 
Maybe you will try the water, just a sip. 
There. Not bad, not bad. not anything like 
home, but. . .not bad.
And if you get sick, you can always ask for 
Pepto-Bismol (not in English, mind you,
you know the language now!) Oh, they 
dont have Pepto-Bismol here? No problem, 
youre doing fine. You even know the name 
of the street you live on, and you are a for
midable bargainer at the marketplace.
Three, four, or even eight weeks later, 
you find yourself in an airport, clutching 
two suitcases, a backpack, a native flag, a 
drooping bouquet that your younger 
brother gave you, and a wicker birdcage to 
take home to your parents. The budgies may 
not appreciate it, but you had to take some
thing to everybody back home.
As the tears roll down your cheeks and 
you say goodbye in a language that now 
feels like your own, you realize: This is 
pretty neat. English may be one of the most 
widely spoken languages in the world, but 
its fabulous to know what someone else is 
saying too.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing.
Eco-week: the debt dilemma
By Wayne Cutler
In light of todays economic situation, 
corporations are being squeezed out of the 
long term credit markets. Short term debt as 
a percent of total debt has been occupying a 
larger portion of a firms portfolio.
</
When long term interest rates 
are high (bonds), businesses take 
caution against being locked 
to paying high coupon ratesin
CMU: A place of mystery, joy, and wonder
By Paul Spillane
In my short stay thusfar here at Camp 
CMU, I have discovered taking midnight 
campus strolls to be an immensely pleasura
ble, spiritually setding experience.
It is all so alien at night. I feel 
remotely unsure of where I am, 
but, at the same time, equally 
sure that I should be here. The 
artificial lighting found everywhere lends 
an atmosphere of surrealism to the campus; 
a Even now, there is hidden activity every
where. Hunt Library, so beautifully illumi
nated in the late evening, is the sight of 
intense concentration and dedication of pur
pose. In the silent academic buildings, sev
eral students exist in microcosms 
containing only themselves and their stu
dies. In the dorms can be found both study
ing and socializing; all quiet outwardly. In 
the distance are the faint sounds of fraternity 
gatherings.
Sporadic activity is everywhere. Several 
industrious students are seen on their way
home from studies. Hackers take advantage 
of the darkness hours to return to their rest
ing places. A midnight tennis duo volleys in 
the darkness. Joggers can be found on the 
track at all hours of the night. A skate
boarder rides unseen waves down the Hill. 
The sight of young love and budding rom
ance can be seen from all comers of campus.
The sounds coming from all areas of the 
school add to the undefinable, yet undenia
ble, mood in the air. In Maggie Mo, a con
temporary rock band rehearses. The 
synthesizer electrifies the atmosphere. 
Nearby, in the fine arts building, a tuba 
player fills the black, early morning hours 
with a more classical sound. The two types 
of music blend in an eerie, but oh-sopleasant combination. The gentle chirp of 
the crickets provides the unifying under
tones to this cacophony. And yet, all is reverendy quiet.
The entire tone, in fact, is of a certain 
euphoria, almost religious in its serenity. 
The sense is of absolute freedom; a quiet joy
that expresses in silence what could never be 
expressed even with shouts. This serene 
beauty is so relaxed and so setding . . .
My wanderings have led me here, finally, 
to the Ships Prow... what a perfect place to 
take a girlfriend, he thought heavily. His 
thoughts drift in this solitary place. So this is 
CMU? I wonder what I will experience here. 
Will I find a sense of belonging here? Will I 
find security, companionship? Will I find 
love? Of a woman, and, equally important, 
of a true friend? Does not that special type of 
bond come about only after years of sharing, 
openness, and caring? What, then, at 
Carnegie?
I dont know what lies in store for me, but 
then, I really dont want to. I prefer living for 
the present, not quite seeing but always 
vaguely wondering about whats just over 
the horizon . . . The evening is late. Camp 
CMU is quiet. Alls well.
Paul Spillane is a freshman majoring in 
Social Science and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
on their bond issues.
Many analysts feel that the most 
important determinant in the firms 
decision is their expectations on future 
rates, i.e. if corporations expect rates to 
increase in the future issuances of bonds 
(long term debt) today becomes very 
attractive.
On the other hand, if firms forsee rates 
receeding, they will stall writings erf new 
bonds and increase their short tenn debt 
obligations (commercial paper and bank 
loans;. As long term rates (using Aa utility 
bonds, a good indicator of corporate rates) 
increase, businesses tend to use more short 
term debt to finance their operations.
Although analysts make a strong point, 
its not the major reason why corporations 
increase their dependence on short term 
debt.
The bottom line for seeking long or short 
term debt is the firms return on investment 
(ROI). No matter how high or low interest 
rates are, business profits must surpass the 
rates being charged on loans. No rational 
company is going to issue a 10 year bond at 
12% when theyre only receiving 10% on 
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Letters
Advantage of fraternities is interaction with peers
Editor
This letter is in response to some opinions 
expressed in a letter from Chris Johnston 
(9/14/82) regarding the value of fraternities.
After describing what may be called a 
non-fraternity he states:
It would be a gathering 
place for individuals who 
choose to go their own way 
rather than rely on a prefabri
cated peer group. It would offer 
the advantages of Greek life 
without the disadvantage of los
ing ones individuality or cater
ing to a group ideal.
Wouldnt life be merry if we all went our 
own way, doing what I want to do, not 
caring if we injured or offended those 
around us. I believe this condition could be 
described as anarchy. Perhaps we frat boys 
realize that one often has to sacrifice his own 
interests in favor of a group ideal. I believe 
we are merely continuing (in a more inti
mate way) the social process started when we 
entered first grade. Its called learning to get 
along with others. Perhaps you think its 
better to sit under a tree and think about 
yourself and your feelings...and what you 
want to do. However, sooner or later youre 
going to have to enter the world and realize 
there are other people who have wants and 
feeling different than you. Sooner or later 
youre going to have to adapt to fit in the 
world.
Is it wrong that we should start now in 
college, or should we remain sheltered for 
four more years before being thrust into the 
real, cold world?
I also do not believe fraternities are a pre
fabricated peer group. We choose who we 
want to belong. We fabricate the group out 
of people who we think can enrich our lives, 
out of people who have something to offer.
The individuality in fraternities is amaz
ing. There are music majors, engineers, 
dramats, business majors, art majors, auto 
mechanics (by their own choice, not the 
schools design) and even creative writers 
just like yourself.
We combine our individual talents to do 
something worthwhile, like Spring Carni
val, the only university function which 
seems to encompass almost all groups and 
individuals.
I feel my personality has been enriched by 
being in contact with people of different 
talents, hometowns, backgrounds, etc.
What advantages of Greek life are left after 
you take all these away? Well, there is drink
ing and carousing which can be done at any 
dorm or neighborhood bar without the 
label of being Greek. You dont have to be in 
a frat to get drunk.
Alas, I agree with you on one aspect. Fra
ternities are somewhat sexist. I am unfortu
nate to have joined an all male fraternity. 
But then again, there are no co-educational 
fraternities at CMU (they do exist else
where). Thus, to get around this we invent 
silly names such as little sister to give 
credit to women who we think deserve a lot 
of recognition because they care about us as 
much as we care about them.
I dont mean to drag on and praise frater
nities. Theyre certainly not for everybody. 
But the lessons learned here are the same as
those learned anywhere else where two or 
more people attempt to coexist. Perhaps 
they could be explained as ones individual 
attempt at becoming part of society.
One other thing you probably would 
have mentioned if you had thought about it. 
People in fraternities are immature because 
they have to rely on other people for 
support.
Is there something wrong or immature 
about caring for one another, helping each 
other iron out our problems; physical, men
tal, financial, and emotional? If there is, I 
want to be immature all of my life because I 
like to come to a place where somebody 
cares enough to ask how I feel, tell me when 
Im wrong, etc., etc., etc.
I love all my brothers and little sisters, and 
Im sure they love me, also. That loves not 
restricted to each other, however. When I 
walk to a dormitory to visit my independ
ent friends, I feel that I can give them more 
because of what my brothers have given me.
I urge anyone and everyone to see for 
themselves. Go out and get involved. Join 
the Rugby Club. Go skydiving with the 
Explorers. Take pictures for The Thistle. 
Maybe even join a fraternity. Do something! 
You and everyone around you will be glad 
you did.
One final thing: Granted, the fraternities 
have their problems, but to stereotype us is 
unfair to the majority who are individuals.
Richard Sean Keegan 
Vice-President 
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity
In the printing of Chris Johnstons letter 
last Tuesday 9/14/82, one line was acciden
tally dropped from the bottom of the first 
page, and the line reading would be a...brother!sisterhood, should have had a no in 
front of it.  Ed.
Tri-delts announce pledges
Editor:
Faces gathered at every window. The 
singing (or was it screaming?) hovered over 
the sounds of stereos and televisions.
You might be asking why on earth should 
groups of girls gather and cause such a 
scene. Well, listen here, if you really want to 
know what all the screamings about: grab a 
hold of these girls on campus.
Yes, weve done it again! Another dynam
ite pledge class brought to you from the 
sisters of Delta Delta Delta, and youd better 
believe that were screaming it from the roof
tops and fountain bottoms!
Here they are! Meet the new fall 1982 
Tri-delta Pledges:
Daina Baumhammers 
Susan Duff 
Meghan Duffy 
Elizabeth Howard 
Michele Pereira 
Krisie Spear 
Gretchen Von Gross
man
Mitzi Watkins
Michelle Boulanger 
Cheryl Gastineau 
Julie Grant 
Karla Nelson 
Michele Salute 
Jennifer Staiger 
Lynn Smulowitz 
Stephanie Stang 
Jennifer Wieland
Sisters of Delta Delta Delta
The Tartan doesn't write itself.
We need you to help fill in the gaps
The Tartan staff meets every Monday at 8 PM in Room 13 Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

September 21, 1982The TartanPage 5
GSO president asks for graduate involvement
Editor:
The graduate student organization at 
CMU is entering into its fourth year of exist
ence. The success of the GSO is owed largely 
to a friendly administration and the hard 
work of a few dedicated people.
Now that we have an established base, we 
are looking for new grad, students to fill in
* the gaps, to bring forth new ideas, and to 
devote the time and energy necessary to see 
those ideas become a reality.
As stated in our constitution, the purpose 
of the GSO is to improve graduate life at 
CMU; to promote interaction among all 
graduate students; to bring graduate stu
dents into a more active participation 
within their department; to act as the repre
sentative body for the graduate students and 
to present their views to the administration, 
faculty, and undergraduates; and to improve 
the quality of education available at CMU.
* The GSO consists of representatives from 
each department, with one person represent
ing each one hundred students. The assem
bly meets once a month. The work of the 
GSO is done by its committees which 
include activities, campus action, communi
cations, and finance. The GSO sponsors 
monthly happy hours, spring and fall par
ties, blood drives, summer movies, and grad
uate student orientation.
In addition, the GSO has undertaken pro
jects such as producing a housing booklet. 
Representatives from the GSO have been on 
university committees such as auxiliary ser
vices, and the Presidents student advisory 
committee.
This fall, the GSO is planning happy 
hours at 4:30 p.m. in the Skibo Ballroom on 
9/24, 10/29, and 11/19. Assembly meetings 
are scheduled for 9/22,10/19, and 11/10 and 
will be held in rooms 12 or 13 in Skibo.
We are also planning a welcome recep
tion and dinner for the new graduate stu
dents on Sept. 25th in the faculty lounge and 
dining room. All new graduate students are 
invited.
If you are interested in attending and did 
not receive an invitation, please contact 
Dean Lois Coxs office (Student Affairs) as 
soon as possible, as space is limited.
We are currently regrouping and plan
ning events for this academic year. The 
assembly meetings are open to anyone who 
is interested. If you have questions about
your departments GSO or the central GSO 
dont hesitate to call your department repre
sentative or an executive officer.
This is your chance to make your stay at 
CMU more meaningful and provides an 
opportunity for you to see what goes on 
behind the scenes here. Dont expect the next 
guy or gal to do it or ignore it because you 
are too busy. A lot of people, doing a little 
work each, makes for an efficient, produc
tive organization which is not limited by 
manpower constraints. Involvement is the
key and it can be contagious.
The GSO executive officers are: 
President: Charles Krafft EE 
Vice-President (Activities): Jim 
Osborn Civ E.
Treasurer: Tom Bijak GSIA 
Campus Action: Rich Korf CS 
Secretary: To be filled at the next 
Meeting
Charles S. Krafft 
GSO President
CMU alcohol policyStudent says banning booze is bull
Editor
You cant legislate morality, but our 
esteemed President Cyert does not realize 
this. His proposed alcohol policy is bullshit.
It doesnt make sense and it isnt neces
sary. He states that one of the reasons for the 
policy is that alcoholic beverages served at 
outdoor parties present the wrong image to 
the community. Who cares?
This is a private university, not,a public 
one. If the community comes to our cam
pus, it is a guest and therefore has no right to 
tell us how to behave. If our behavior 
offends them, then they can get the hell out 
of here because they dont pay for it
We pay for it and pay and pay and pay 
again. This is an expensive country club 
and we have a right to do what we want as 
long as it doesnt hurt anyone else. We payed 
for this right.
The 1981-83 CMU catalog states ...the 
university does not assume the responsibil
ity of acting as an arm of the law, so the 
argument stating that is is illegal to drink 
under age isnt valid.

ffi
T he
Student Government TreasurerandStudent Senate Vacancy Elections
September 28, 1982 Petitions are available at the Information Desk in Skibo for the following positions:
Stndent Government Treasurer1 AMS2 CFA1CIT \1MCS 1SUPA 1 GSIA
I
Petitions due 5 p.m. September 27 at the Information Desk.
If the law really cares if we drink under 
age then they can come and get us; the 
school shouldnt have to.
I feel that this policy will not make life 
better at CMU and that this is just one step 
in a shifting administration policy towards 
the increasing suppression of student rights.
Those of you who have been at the univer
sity for the past few years should have noted 
the increase in the needless restriction of our 
non-academis activities.
Remember when they had beer at studentactivities fee sponsored parties? Remember 
when CMU police were CMU security? 
Remember when security didnt have guns?
Giving security guns is a good idea up until 
they shoot a student
Either take the guns from security or give 
guns to students. If this is "The Professional 
Choice, then let us Professional people 
make the "Choice when and where we 
want to drink.
This is our university, not the communi
tys. Maybe in light of the recent $1200 
tuition increase we should change the motto 
erf the university from The Professional 
Choice to CMU...a bargain at any price.
Rob Devoy 
Jr. Chem. E.
I#CMU has #Jvery little class
Editor
I am writing this letter in order to air my 
views on the behavior of a large number of 
people present at the CMUPitt Junior 
Varsity football game played Sunday, Sep
tember 12, 1982, at Tartan Field.
From the outset, it was obvious that
CMUs team and coaches, in particular, 
showed very little class in the manner in 
which they conducted themselves.
In spite of the fact that this was princi
pally a practice game and the officials called 
an inordinate (and deserved) number of 
continued on page 9
More PizzaHAS A PITCHER PERFECT OTTER.
Buyapitcher of Coke for $3.25 
x|pd keep the pitcher
The beautiful tiffany 
style pitcher for Ccx^Cola. 
Now it can be yours Just 
buy a pitcher of delicious, 
refreshing Coca-Cola for S3.25 and you can keep 
the pitcher. Now thats a real 
pitcher perfect offer. So take 
advantage soon. Offer good at 
participating locations.
Good while 
supplies last.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Student input sought: 
change planned in Skibo
photo by John Wadsworth
Should the gray matter be replaced? asks Byron Palchetti in planning. If students agree, 
the area may be remodeled this Christmas.
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
The gray matter in Skibo may be replaced 
with a lounge this Christmas, said Byron 
Falchetti, facilities and space planner.
A lot of students have complained about 
the gray matter, Falchetti said, and they 
seem to want real furniture in that space. 
Falchetti and a committee are currently sur
veying student opinion.
We wont do anything if the students 
dont want us to, Falchetti said. He added, 
however, that money is available to remodel 
the area.
The committee has visited student unions 
at other colleges, Falchetti said, to get ideas 
for remodeling Skibo. He would like to see 
the removal of the gray matter and addition 
of real furniture. He is seeking student
f A# WW* A *  S
^ ^ 4 o <r  X '
input on this matter and will hold a brownbag lunch in the gray matter next Wednes
day for interested students.
Hopefully, well have enough feedback 
by October 1 to make a decision, Falchetti 
said. If the students want a change, work 
will be done over Christmas break. We 
want the seniors to be able to enjoy it too, 
he added.
National study 
shows enrollment almost unchanged
A survey of college registrars just com
pleted by the National Association of Col
lege Stores shows that enrollment in two 
and four-year colleges will remain virtually 
unchanged next year in spite of federal aid 
restrictions.
The report, based on projections by the 
registrars, was released by Garis Distelhorst, 
NACS executive director. We were expect
ing a negative effect from college aid cut
backs and the economy, he explained, but 
if the estimate holds, enrollment will be 
stable.
The National Center for Educational Sta
tistics shows 1981-82 enrollment at 
12,371,672. The tally for the 1982-83 school 
year will be virtually the same at 12,451,100 
according to the NACS survey. Some 
smaller schools still have to reply, so that the 
final numbers will show a slight increase.
Distelhorst said that the preliminary 
enrollment figures seem to indicate a slight 
drop in attendance at four-year institutions, 
but this is offset by a slight gain in the 
two-year schools. We know that the college 
market is a strong one, he said. We are 
pleased to see just how strong.
Want to increase your Reading Speed?
Attend a 6 week speedreading course ($50 fee) spon
sored by the CMU Counseling & Student Develop
ment Center. Thursdays, 7:00 - 9:00 p.m., 
September 23  October 28. Register at 135 Baker 
Hall (phone 578-2922). Qass limit of 30.
Procrastinators: want to change your 
ineffectiveness, self-reproach, and the 
costs of delay? Another Procrastina
tors Workshop, led by psychologists, 
begins Friday, September 24, 7 to 10 
PM (so dont procrastinate).
Eight sessions through November 12, 
$175.00.
Call Stephen Linn 486-4073.
There are ALTERNATIVES 
... TO ABORTION
HOT LINE: 731-2420
I nformation/counseling
9 A.M. to 11 P.M. everyday
PREGNANCY TESTING:
906 Penn Ave., Downtown8-10 A.M. MWF, 11-1 P.M. TTHS391-4706
ATA  Free and confidential rrvicri far pregnant women

---------------------------------------------------

September 21,1982The TartanPage 7
Food Service budget balances
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
*
While rumors of a profit were exaggera
tions, we had a good year and a much 
better year than weve had recently, said 
Ken Stover, director of Food Service. We 
broke even and thats outstanding!
The balancing of the budget was brought 
about because of many reasons. Last year 
was the first year of the new food contract 
plan. The events calendar and other media 
provided advertising and there was a strong 
monetary base from which to start, Stover
said. In addition, for the second year, Mari
ons Inc., was in control of Food Service.
In the past two years, Food Service has 
done some facelifting. This year, returning 
students were pleasantly greeted by a new
carpet and freshly painted walls in the Morewood Cafeteria. Window coverings and a 
new ceiling are still to be installed. The 
summer before, Food Service had the Kiltie 
Cafe redone.
Stover stated that he was pleased with the 
progress, and he is optimistic about its 
continuation.
Police Roundup
Fadzen: summer "routine"
Food Service managed to break even financially last year, and may even make a profit this 
year.
Physical Plant gets head
By NANCY RITCHEY
Tartan Staffwriter
It was a routine summer, Director of 
Security Robert S. Fadzen reports for the 
CMU campus police. According to Fadzen, 
campus crime slows down considerably dur
ing the summer and this one was no 
exception.
The .Campus Police directed their atten
tion to the bicycle thefts which, according to 
Fadzen, were widespread. Some of the bicy
cles were fecovered and five arrests were 
made. Of the suspects found guilty, one was 
ordered to make restitution and placed on 
probation and three others were sent to juve
nile court. There is an arrest warrent out
standing for the fifth, Fadzen said. 
According to Fadzen, although the stolen 
bikes belonged to University students, the 
thefts can be mainly attributed to outsiders. 
Fadzen suggested that students who own 
bikes should replace inadequate bike locks
with the newer unbreakable kryptonite 
metal bar models.
The Campus Police are withholding 
information pending the final examination 
of a major theft case involving two CMU 
students occuring at the beginning of this 
past summer. A collection of information 
on the recovered items of the $40,000 worth 
of stolen equipment has been compiled; 
however, the final verdict on the plights of 
the two suspects has not yet been 
announced. . .
As of the beginning of the school year, 
Campus Police will also be responsible for 
the Tudor-Carol apartment complex and 
for the new transportation system which 
makes a loop from Skibo to Shirley, Hamp
shire, Tudor-Caroll, Shadyside and Skibo 
every' half hour until 11:30 p.m. The escort 
service will be scheduled on demand from 
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
Neal F. Binstock, assistant dean for 
administration at the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration (GSLA) has been 
appointed director of administration at 
Physical Plant.
According to Michael A. Corletti, director 
of operations for the University, Binstock 
will be responsible for the establishment 
and maintenance of a variety of new pro
grams, such as computer systems for work 
order processing and billing, maintenance 
and repair scheduling, construction, renova
tion, engineering and design scheduling.
Binstock also will manage financial and 
statistical reporting and will oversee the
development and implementation of pro
grams to clarify campus-wide bidding, 
proposals, purchasing and billing. He will 
develop recommendations to improve Phys
ical Plants productivity, create budget and 
financial planning strategies and supervise 
the maintenance control center.
Binstock received a bachelors degree in 
psychology from CMU. He joined the GSIA 
staff in 1975, as assistant to the coordinator 
of computer services and held various positions in that department. In 1978 he was 
appointed assistant to the dean and director 
of computer services and became assistant 
dean for administration at GSIA in 1981.
CAREER SERVICES & PLACEMENT 
ORIENTATION MEETINGS:
Seniors and graduate students intending to use the services 
of the Career Services and Placement Office this year should 
plan to attend one of the following scheduled meetings:
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1982 - 11:30 A.M. WHERRETT 
ROOM, SKIBO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1982 - 4:00 P.M. WHERRETT 
ROOM, SKIBO
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1982 - 4:00 P.M. ROOM 7500, 
WEAN HALL
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 - 11:30 A.M. WHERRETT 
ROOM, SKIBO
These sessions will last 40-50 minutes and generally cover 
the range of services of the office and an explanation of 
forms and procedures used. Time will be available for 
questions and discussion.
Sponsored by Office of Career Services and Placement
Carnegie MeMon University
Can you picture yourself 
swinging down a cliff? Or 
shooting the rapids? Or 
crossing a river using only 
and your own two
Youll have a chance 
to do all this and more in 
Army ROTC.
Adventure training like
this helps you develop 
many of the qualities you ll 
neea as an Army officer.
Qualities like selfconfidence. Stamina. And 
the ability to perform 
under pressure.
If youd like to find out 
more, make a date to see 
your Army ROTC Professor 
of Military Science.ARMY ROTC BEALLYOUCANBE.
For Information 
Contact
Michael Schulte, 
CPT
Dept, of Military Sci.
Second Basement, B7 
Margaret Morrison 
578-2205 2196
CareerPerspectives

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Staelin resigns
AMS head leaves CMU
photo by John Wadsworth 
Student Senate recently elected a new chair, but several vacant seats remain.
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Asst Entertainment Editor
Professor Richard Staelin, the head of 
AMS, has left CMU for a position at Duke 
University in North Carolina.
Staelin received his MBA from the Uni
versity of Michigan in 1963. He worked for 
IBM for the next three years before returning 
to Michigan to receive his PhD.
Staelin came to CMU as an assistant pro
fessor at GSLA in 1969, specializing in mar
keting. He was made a full professor of 
Industrial Administration in September of 
1980. In September 1981 he was named the 
head of AMS.
Well respected in the field of marketing, 
Staelin was on the editorial board of several 
publications, including the Journal of Mar
keting Research and Marketing Science. He 
was a consultant for the Department of 
Health, Education, and Welfare, the Food 
and Drug Administration, and the Federal 
Trade Commission. In addition, he has 
written many articles for marketing 
publications.
Staelin resigned his position at CMU to 
take the T. Austin Finch Chair as Professor 
of Business Administration at Duke. He has 
been replaced as Head of AMS by Professor 
Charles Kriebel, who has been with GSLA 
since 1964.
Computer aids with performance in CFA
The world premiere of Seven Visions, a 
computer-aided concert, will take place at 8 
p.m., Friday, September 24 on the first floor 
of the College of Fine Arts at CamegieMellon University. An open rehersal is sche
duled for 8 p.m., Thursday September 23.
Student Senate
Written by Roger B. Dannenberg, a doc
toral candidate in computer science, the con
cert will involve a brass quintet, 
woodwinds, strings and percussion in seven 
instrumental movements arid male chorus 
singing Gregorian chant in six interludes.
Kavoulakis elected chair
Alexandra Kavoulakis became the new 
chair of Student Senate last week after the 
resignation of Ed Novak.
Kavoulakis was one erf two people 
nominated for the spot two weeks ago. The 
other, Janelle Malloy, decided not to run. 
Kavoulakis was elected by acclamation.
John Snyder replaced Kavoulakis as 
Academic Affairs chair.
There are currently several vacancies on 
Senate which must be filled. There are two 
open seats in CFA and one in each of AMS, 
CTT, MCS, SUPA, and GSLA. Petitions for 
these seats are due Monday.
The concert and rehersal are open to the 
public without charge.
Dannenberg, a trumpet player from 
Houston, Texas, will conduct using a termi
nal and computer on a centrally located bal
cony above the deans office. Musicians, 
reading his directions from a small box with 
flashing lights, will be scattered throughout 
the first floor and mezzanine with the sin
gers circulating in the same area.
In one movement, Dannenberg has the 
brass quintet riding up and down on eleva
tors while playing. In another, musicians 
will drop pebbles into buckets of water and 
bricks onto glass from the mezzanine sixteen 
feet above to the first floor.
Dannenberg has had previous composi
tions performed without computer by the
CMU Contemporary Ensemble.
He has dedicated Seven Visions to 
Anatoly Shcharansky, a Russian computer 
scientist jailed for speaking out in support 
of human rights. Dannenberg became 
aware of Shcharanskys plight through the 
Association of Computing Machinery, an 
organization that is boycotting cooperation 
with the government of the Soviet Union in 
the area of computer science.
In a letter to Shcharansky informing him 
of the concert, Dannenberg said, For me, 
the piece is a symbol of scientific and artistic 
freedom, and I think the dedication will 
serve well to remind others that we must 
continue our efforts to help you and to sup
port your cause for human rights.
The T artan'sXXDeadline InformationHappy
T)  ,1___I
Display Ads..............Tuesday. 5 p.m.
Classifieds, Announcements
..................Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Letters, Articles............Friday. 5 p.m.
of the week before the issue date.
Birthday
Monica
?????????????????????
Display ad rate is $4.50 per column 
inch, minimum of two column 
inches per ad. Classifieds are $2 for 
1 -20 words, $4 for 21 -50 words, and 
$8 for more than 50 words. There is 
a fee for late advertisement 
insertion.
From your friends on The Tartan staff. 
?????????????????????

---------------------------------------------------

September 21, 1982  The Tartan Page 9
Dept, of Education defines financial aid programs
continued from page 2
tunity Grant provides another mechanism 
for making awards to students. SEOG is 
different from the Pell Grant in that it is 
managed by die financial aid administrator 
of each participating college. Each school 
receives a set amount of money from the 
Department and when that money is gone, 
there are no more SEOG funds for the year.
In 1982-83 the Department of Education 
will provide 440,000 students with 
$278,400,000 in Supplemental Educational 
Opportunity Grants. Students will get up to 
$2,000 a year under this program.
Grant programs are designed to help the 
most needy students get a college education. 
The Pell Grant, in particular, is targeted to 
help those students whose families earn less 
than $12,000 per year. Grant aid is not 
meant to cover all college costs but is 
expected to be combined with a reasonable 
contribution from the students family and 
individual self-help, generally in the form of 
loans, private scholarships, and work.
Another type of student financial assist
ance is the College Work-Study Program. 
Designed to provide onor off-campus jobs 
for undergraduate and graduate students 
who need financial assistance, Work-Study 
is usually managed by the college financial 
aid administrator. Some 950,000 students 
will receive $528 million under this pro
gram in 1982-83.
A great deal of publicity has been gener
ated lately on Federal student loans, particu
larly the National Direct Student Loan 
Program. Although all colleges do not par
ticipate in the NDSL program, 3340 of them 
do. This program makes available low inter
est (5 percent) loans that students must 
begin repaying six months after completing 
school (either by graduating, leaving, or 
dropping below half-time status). Up to 10 
years is allowed to repay the loan. Applica
tion is made to a schools financial aid 
administrator who manages the loan fund. 
The fund is a revolving account, designed to 
allow a school to continually make new 
loans as existing loans are repaid. About 
800,000 students will receive NDSLs in 
1982-83; 10,000 more than in 1981-82.
Recently, Secretary of Education T. H. 
Bell signed a regulation which provides 
incentives for an institution to reduce the 
default rate of its NDSL program fund. A 
college which has a default rate over 25 per
cent is asked to turn responsibility for col
lecting the debt over to the Federal 
government. If an institution is not pre
pared to do this, and the default rate remains 
25 percent or more,the Federal government 
will cut off NDSL funding.
The Guaranteed Student Loan Program, 
much in the news lately, makes available
Allegheny 
Womens Center
Abortions 
Free Pregnancy 
Tests
Related Counseling
Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 104 
362-2920
low interest loans to students, with the Fed
eral government paying the interest while a 
student is in school. These loans are made 
by a lender (such as a bank, credit union, or 
savings and loan association) and insured by 
either the Federal government or a State 
Guarantee Agency. This, the largest student 
aid program, will make available over $9.5 
billion in loans during the 1982-83 school 
year.
Undergraduate students can borrow up to 
$2500 a year and graduate students can bor
row up to $5000 under GSL. The total debt 
and undergraduate can carry is $12,000. For 
graduate or professional study this figure is 
$25,000. A student borrower whose family 
income is less than $30,000 automatically 
qualifies for an interest-subsidized loan. Stu
dents whose family income exceeds $30,000 
may still be eligible for GSL interest benefits 
if the colleges financial aid administrator
continued from page 5
penalties on both teams, these men 
allowed themselves to become livid.
At the halftime break, a CMU coach 
could be heard from the other side of the 
field, without amplication, to say, ...if you 
guys dont get on the refs, than I will.
I feel that this is an unsportsmanlike atti
tude to impart to young men in a sports 
program. All during the game, the coaches 
and team from CMU kept up a distracting 
and vociferous heckling of the officials.
At one point, a fight broke out on the field 
among players and the resulting abuse of 
the officials was embarrasing.
The fans in the stands were no better. 
Professional adults sat screaming like mad
men about Pitt players and officials actions 
and physical shortcomings.
These people were not even consuming 
alcohol; drunkeness was no excuse to be
determines that the students has demon
strated financial need.
A new loan program started in 1981, 
called the Auxiliary Loan (or PLUS) Pro
gram, allows parents, independent students, 
and graduate students to borrow up to $3000 
a year. There is no income cut off for eligibil
ity. The interest on PLUS loans will be 
lowered from 14 to 12 percent sometime in 
October as a result of lower average U.S. 
Treasury bill interest rates.
As the economy continues to recover, we 
can expect a continued lowering of interest 
rates, thus easing student repayment costs 
and reducing Federal expenditures. In addi
tion, the Reagan Administration has 
embarked on a major initiative to collect 
delinquent and defaulted loans under the 
National Direct and Guaranteed Student 
Loan Programs. It is anticipated that $80 
million will be collected in 1983. Congress
disgusting.
What promised to be a pleasant Sunday 
afternoon of football for my family and me 
turned out to be a monumental display of 
rude, childish behavior by all involved with 
the Tartans.
It was enlightening to me that the personcontinued from page 3
their investments (sales).
In other words even if a business forsees 
long term rates increasing in the near future, 
it wont necessarily rush to the credit 
markets with new bond issuances if the rate 
theyre offering isnt below their ROI.
Since last year, shon term interest rates as 
measured by the Fed Funds Rate, has 
plummeted 700 basis points (7%). 
Unfortunately long term interest rates, as
has been asked to allow funds collected on 
delinquent loans to be recycled in the loan 
programs; under present law, such funds are 
returned to the Treasury. Returning money 
to the loan funds whould make more money 
available to future college students.
Student aid reforms proposed by the Rea
gan Administration re-establish the funda
mental principle that a student and his or 
her family share the primary responsibility 
for meeting collete costs. The Federal and 
state governments have a role in bridging the 
gap between what a family can reasonably 
contribute and the cost of attending college. 
Only by maintaining its fiscal integrity can 
the Federal government continue to play its 
part in bridging this gap through student 
aid programs.
Edward M. Elmendorf is Deputy Assist
ant Secretary for Student Financial Assist
ance in the U.S. Dept, of Education.
nel and fans of a quality school and football 
program could show themselves to be as 
abusive and domineering as combatants in 
some type of gang war.
I lost a great deal of respect for the repre
sentatives of a fine university.
Cynthia J. Davis
measured by Aa utility bonds, has declined 
only 275 points. Long term rates have to 
come down more.
According to past recessionary data, hope 
is in store for U.S. economy. Short-term 
borrowing seemed to be trending 
downward, which is just an economic fact 
of life at the end of a recession, says Fred 
Joseph, Head of Corporate Finance at 
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
The one care package that's two-semesters long.
It's here. A care package that 
doesn't leave a mess, is great for 
your teeth and lasts for the whole 
school year. It's a brand name 
19" color TV from Rentacolor  
specially student priced at $5.29 a 
week when you rent this month.
With Rentacolor's low prices, you'll 
still have plenty of "beer" money. 
After a one-time $25 installation 
fee, our special two-semester rates 
are just $5.29 a week 
($22.95 a month or
revtfocolor
yTHEO CENTER
He make the good things affordable.
$206.55 for a simple 9-month 
lease). Split it with your roommate 
and double your savings. There's 
no down payment or security 
deposit, never a charge for in-dorm 
service or repairs. And no option to 
buy because after tuition, who has 
an extra $500? So call Rentacolor. 
And get the one care package 
that'll never go stale.
You'll want to check out our 
student specials on VCRs, too.
Serving the Greater Metropolitan Area 
275 Curry Hollow Rd.
RR, Pittsburgh, PA 15236 
(412) 655-8770/527-3591
-SD
Spectator angered by CMU behavior
Interest and debt aren't fun
FOOTBALL SPECIAL
Bring a Tartan or Steeler ticket stub in 
and receive a 20% discount on all 
frames. Students must show ID card.VALLEY OPTICAL
for all your eyeglass needs 
5820 Forbes Ave.
422-2020 
upper level of Gils 
Squirrel Hill

---------------------------------------------------

Gulf,
be on campus to look for something very much in demand these days. New energy Specifically, new human energy The fast-changing energy field will continue to be one of the most exciting and rewarding places to launch a career. Into the eighties, and beyond. And Gulf has exceptional opportunities for new people with new ideas about solving energy problems.Sign up for an appointment now at your placement office. And pick up some Gulf literature for background information. Because this year promises to be a great year for new energy And we cant think of a better place to look than here.DATE: OCTOBER 26EE, Physics & Comp. Sd. Majors
For a 15Religontlcolor poster erf this illustration, please send your request to: Poster, College Relations, P.O. Box 1166, Pittsburgh, PA 15230. Gulf CHI Corporation An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
The blimp 
returns to 
Pittsburgh
Beating the systemHelping hints for all you TOPS system users out there
By DIANE THODOS
Tartan Staffmriter
On the week of September sixth that 
dinosauric dirigible, the Goodyear blimp, 
wafted its way into town and spent a week 
sauntering over Three Rivers Stadium and 
other spots in town reminding us to fasten 
our seatbelts and buy Goodyear tires.
The airship, called The America, was 
parked at Allegheny County Airport on 
September 13 th, its day of rest before 
leaving.
However the blimp we now see in the sky 
is not the same as The America which 
visited Pittsburgh last year: an older airship 
which was replaced several months ago. 
The old airship has the most unusual and 
mysterious history of the four dirigibles of 
the Goodyear fleet flying today.
It dates back to World War II in 1940 
when, according to crewmember Jared 
Haren for the airship, All the commercial 
Goodyear blimps were immediately drafted 
by the Navy to hunt for Japanese 
submarines along the coast of California.
Then on August 16,1942, The Ranger (as 
it was called at the time) driven by pilot Lt. 
Ernest D. Cody and co-pilot Charles E. 
Adams went on patrol along the coast. Later 
that day some citizens on a beach near San 
Francisco noticed the blimp curiously 
straggling in the air.
After buffeting off the ground several 
times, the meandering airbag became 
tangled in some power lines in a small town 
called Daly City, and was finally brought 
down. The pilot and co-pilot had 
disappeared. Stranger yet, everything on the
but you can APPEND one to the other. 
TYPING and PRINTING are two very 
different activities. Call it. jargon or 
computerese, youve got to pick it up to 
work with the computer.
The nice thing is that the computer is 
more than willing to tell you what words it 
knows, what they mean and can do, and will 
even help you guess if you dont remember 
the whole thing!
You may remember the discussion trom 
last weeks column about files to aid you to 
get to know the system. These things, and 
the litde key marked ESC or ESCAPE on the 
keyboard, can make talking to the computer 
a hell of a lot easier: the computer will be 
able to answer your questions.
At the EXEC level, when you see the sign, 
you can type a ? and see all of the available 
commands. Type one of the commands in, 
or the first few letters of one, and hit ESC. 
Not only will the system finish writing out 
the full name of the command, it often 
provides, in parentheses, what are called 
GUIDEWORDS. These are little hints 
telling you what else you need to make the 
command work.
IrtV'v*. ----------- | f" - * V *j, r *a ui example, 11 you iypc x i <*i uic sign, 
2nd hit ESC, the system will write out PE 
(FILE), indi^iiMC to you that the system 
wants a file-name to TYPt. The hie name is 
called the commands ARGUMLjnT. 
TYPE, incidentally, means type out on the 
terminal.
If you type a ? after getting TYPE (FILE), 
the system will reply:
File name
or /Binary
and then re-write the TYPE(FILE). Itll sit 
there until you type in something else. 
(/Binary' is a SWITCH for the TYPE 
Command. Well talk about those later.)
By this time, you should have gotten the 
idea that TYPE wants a file to type, but if 
you .still need help, you should either 
control-C or Control-U to the next sign and 
type HELP TYPE. Your screen will fill up 
with everything you always wanted to know 
about TYPE, but didnt know whom to ask.
Sit down at a terminal with this article 
and try this! Pick a command, 
INFORMATION is a good one to start 
with, type it in followed by a question mark. 
HEY! This is the one time you dont have to 
hit RETURN! The system will see the 
question mark and respond to it before you 
hit RETURN. If you do hit return, when 
the system is done filling you in on your 
options, itll try to execute the partial 
command before the ?. So watch that!
NO Command on the system is 
dangerous when you play this way. You 
cant make the machine go down or break 
it" somehow. The only problem is that 
sometimes the computer gets a little hard to 
understand. It has to speak in generalities 
and these can be confusing. If you get stuck, 
ask a friend, or a User Consultant, or me. 
Just dont be afraid to try it.
One C0.mmand that is enjoying a lot erf 
popularity these day* *s COOKIE. After 
youve logged-in, just type CUoK^ at the 
sign. I wont tell you what happens, Dui 
believe me, people are just eating it up.
The newest blimp of the Goodyear fleet follows in the footsteps of its predecessor, returning to Pittsburgh earlier in September.
ship was normal and intact. To this day no 
one knows what happened to them.
The car of the airship was stored and 
brought out again in 1969 when it was 
rebuilt and reinflated to join the Goodyear 
fleet. After thirteen years of service The 
America became too expensive to keep up 
and was replaced with an all-new blimp this 
year, also called The America.
Unlike what many people believe, all 
Goodyear dirigibles which have been flying, 
since 1925 were of a commercial nature. 
They were used only for Goodyear 
advertising, not defense operations (until
the Navy drafted them). Today there are few 
companies besides Goodyear which work 
with dirigibles: one in England and one in 
Germany. Budweiser has also bought two 
blimps which use hot air, not helium, to 
make them rise. However the company doesnt 
expect these blimps, advertising Budweiser 
and Busch beer, to fly much longer.
Today the 5.5 million dollar airship 
holding $16,000 worth of helium does all of 
its operations tor free, from conveying TV 
sports cameras to hauling hundreds of 
willing invitees and filling the night skies 
with wise words to the public on its light
billboard. Everything we do is free of 
charge, says Jared. What Goodyear gets 
back from it is recognition, the blimp is the 
companys symbol.
The blimp receives ample welcome 
wherever it goes, especially from airport 
personnel, who enjoy much of the attention 
from the public when the blimp is parked at 
their airport. People, mostly kids, have even 
written messages on house roofs and streets 
affably addressing the dirigible.
Jared has found that no matter where the 
blimp goes you are always going to find a 
person who likes an airship.
(Please note that the author of this 
column neither wrote nor approved last 
weeks italicized introduction. - Ed.)
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwritrr
PUnrecognized command  does not 
match switch or keyword--
Thats what you get when you screw up
on the TOPS system. It means that the 
computer cant understand what youre 
trying to tell it. And aside from sloppy 
typing, theres no reason why you should 
ever see it!
The computers vocabulary is smaller 
than a freshmans at Pitt, but some of the 
words are a little different from regular 
English: you dont ADD two files together,
TAfTAr W UP CHfikACHlkfl 
r/VATAPCHlCfCACHlCk/V I6MWT 
0UcK*CHlK* eaksaesawda m CHICKA
** j
At. v
 I
, 1 '**\ v f ***

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
A peek at the past years
Jay Devine, head of the H&SS academic advisory center, lends a mitt at last Fridays annual 
H&SS BBQ.
SENIORS!
Freshmen wear regulation bands
GET SHOT 
NOW!!
For Yearbook Portraits
Register for photo sittings at Skibo 
Info Desk today!
Portraits will be taken from 9/27 
10/1 between 8:005:00.
Where? Room 45 Skibo.
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffunitrr
In this column I take a look at what was 
in The Tartan during this week in previous 
years.
10 YEARS AGO: Sept. 26, 1972 
The lead article this week dealt with a 
new policy of the operations division to treat 
students as a business treats customers. 
According to President Cyert, To call the 
student a customer is in the spirit of good 
response. Customer emphasises importance 
of good service. Students should not 
interpret the word customer literally. He 
expressed a need for Food Service and 
Housing to win students over.
Also in this issue, Cyert announced that 
the tuition would not rise in 1973, despite a 
$800,000 deficit.
30 YEARS AGO: Sept. 24, 1952 
Final plans have been completed for the 
dedication of the new William Larimer 
Mellon School of Industrial Admin
istration. The dedication activities will 
proceed for two days, October 2 and 3. On 
the first day the formal ceremony will take 
place with Sydney A. Swensmd, President of 
Gulf Oil Corporation, as the featured 
speaker whose topic will be, What Does 
Industry Expect?
50 YEARS AGO: Sept. 27, 1932 
Among the items in this issue was a note 
that the Carnegie Grill is reducing its prices. 
Beverage, butter and rolls would now be 
given with all twenty-five and thirty cent 
breakfasts, and sandwiches would be priced 
at ten cents.
There was also an article reviewing the 
successes of the Carnegie football team, then 
known as the Skibos, in recent years. In 
1923, they had defeated Pitt for the first time,
and in 1928 they defeated W&J, Pitt, 
Georgetown and Notre Dame in a row, and 
were strong contenders for the natioal 
championship.
However, the following is w hat I consider 
the most interesting of the articles, and here 
reproduce it in its entirety:
Each college has separate rules for 
freshmen. Standard regulations for men are:
(1) Freshmen must wear black ties and black 
cotton socks exclusively. (2) Freshmen must 
not wear any hat while in the buildings, but 
shall always wear one while outside. (3) 
Freshmen must not smoke on campus, 
except in the club-rooms. (4) No fieshmen 
may wear, raise, or attempt to raise a 
moustache. (5) Freshmen shall wear the 
Regulation Plebe Cap at all times on week 
days except while attending Campus social 
functions in the evening. (6) Freshmen must 
wear a coat at all times and keep it buttoned.
" The regulations for women are: (1) All 
freshmen must wear the Regulation Arm 
Band. They are to wear only the following 
pieces of jewelry: one necessary pin, a watch, 
and a fraternity pin. In Margaret Morrison, 
all freshmen must use the right-hand 
stairway and bulletin board, attend all 
school assemblies, and cannot use the 
Margaret Morrison smoking lounge. The 
College of Fine Arts freshmen must use the 
North and South entrances only, wear green 
smocks, and sit in front seats at all 
assemblies of the college. Freshmen also 
cannot use the main entrance of the 
Administration Building.
Thats one campus tradition Im not sorry 
for the demise of. This year, freshmen even 
objected to having to wear hospital-type 
wristbands during the three days of 
orientation.
I
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 21, 1982The TartanPage 13
CMU has newfangled fad
Boomerangs swing around school scene
photo by Owen Lloyd 
Soccer season means lots of practice.
By ANNE-MERLE BRYANT
Tartan Staff writer
Student spectators have dubbed him 
Red because of his shock of carrot - 
colored hair
One observer noted his leather wristbands 
A worn primarily for protection. 
wjT Some even say he could wield a 
(Jr weapon.
Last time I spotted him on the 
cut, Red donned a t-shirt and gym shorts 
and I mistakenly figured that he was a 
student here. Just a typical student taking a 
study break in the sunshine, tossing around 
a frisbee.
But not quite. Sure Red looked like your 
typical guy, yet he was throwing some 
uncanny returns with his flying disc. 
Unfortunately ,a class beckoned me and I 
couldnt speak with Red about his prime 
time hobby.
A few days later, however, another 
thrower appeared on the cut. Bob Bates, a 
senior in Industrial Design, identified his 
flying object as a cousin of the boomerangStu duen deG tovn rmTa
Im not my old lovable 
self when Im around 
cigarettes. I get real 
cranky. So I want all you 
smokers to quit once 
and for all. And who 
knows? You might even 
put a smile on my face.
American Cancer Society j
originally designed over 10,000 years ago by 
aborigional Australians as a killing stick. 
Bob quickly mentioned the boomerangs 
ceremonial and sports purposes as well.
A true bommerang is a cross made of 
lightweight wooden strips, measuring 
about eighteen inches square. In an open
field, with a low wind factor--------under
seven m.p.h.--------a properly launched
boomerang can travel up to sixty miles per 
hour, spinning ten umes per second.
Novices can special-order an authentic 
boomerang, return guaranteed for seven 
dollars. The more advanced thrower can 
choose a Weighted Indian River Hook for 
$16.50. You can pick up a Silky Spinner 
for just under $25; it even comes with its 
own carrying case and is waxed, by hand, to 
a handsome finish. (Suitable for hanging 
when not spinning)
Boomeranging is a serious sport for 
enthusiasts the world over. Ben Ruhe, who 
introduced the boomerang to Americans 
over twenty years age, organizes an annual 
Smithsonian Boomerang Open. Judged 
competions range from juggling and and 
distance throwing to boomerang design. 
Incidently, a Pennsylvania resident holds 
the worlds distance record: a 125 yard toss 
with an accurate return.
Is this growing trend at CMU a potential 
rival for loyal frisbee throwers? Probably 
not, considering that SARCs annual frisbee 
throwing competition is still scheduled for 
late October.
Tossing a boomerang, or a close 
facsimile, simply seems to offer a unique 
distraction from studies for a growing 
number of students on campus. Bob, who 
owns a Whammer Jammer, a modified
boomerang, is tempted by a nice sunny 
afternoon...when Im sitting in my studio.
He explained, I watched a guy throwing 
(a boomerang) for a long time one day. Im 
into piloting, so anything that appears so 
beautiful in the air holds my interest. Its 
intriguing to watch (a bommerang) in the 
air, flying under no power except that from 
the original throw. I just had to have one.
Bob, a Coast Guard pilot for five years, 
who plans to work in aeronautical/aviation 
designated the simplicity and delicacy of 
the boomerangs design: Its a perfect 
design, a pretty shape in itself. With respect 
to form and function, the boomerangs got 
it. Call it a sophisticated toy that you cant 
possibly appreciate enough as a child.
Bob is thinking about several moie 
boomerangs to paint in Piper Yellow and 
other aircraft colors. His Whammer 
Jammer, unpainted plywood, is now two 
color: tinted on the edges with a soft coat of 
grass stain.
Dave Levy, a junior, is also intrigued by 
the flight of the boomerang. You wonder 
how the wood is weighted and crafted so 
that the boomerang cuts the wind, flies 
through the air and then returns to you. 
Dave, a southpaw, is more an observer 
than a participant in bommeranging. The 
flying cross is a custommade for either 
left or righthanders. Apparently, all 
boomerangs on the CMU campus are cut for 
righties.
Anyone intersted in ordering a 
boomerang, or perhaps a book or film on 
the subject should write to :BEN RUHE, 
P.O. Box 7324, Washington D.C. 20044 or 
USBA, 40309 Forest Hill Ave., 
Richmond, Va. 23225.
Get Involved With
0
82
Floats ! 
Parades ! 
Balloons ! 
Receptions ! 
Alumni ! 
Football !
Fireworks!
Mr! and Miss Varsity! 
Pep Rally!
Publicity!
Bonfire!
Student Capers!
Interested?
&
Meetings in Warner Hall 505, every Thursday at 5:30 PM
JOIN SARC!
Student Alumni Relations Council

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Student Corp: too good to be true, but it is
JOE FRESHMAN by Mark Levine
bo Co MY DAOs: 7OE
FRESHMAN, SR.
He's a ^ 
Semor?
NO;HE'S A
PathKap
6OW, HE 
WANTS To BE 
A FRESHMAN
YOUR BSN IS WORTH AH OFFICER'S COMMISSIONH THE ARMYYour BSN means youre a professional. In the Army, it also means youre an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, .P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510.
ARMY NURSE CORPS. bE ALLYOU CAN BE.
Terminals and Modems For Rent 
Call (412) 335-9815 
International Automation, Inc.
Suite 200 Mellon Bank Building 
New Kensington, PA 15068-6376
By PAM SNYDER
Tartan Staffumter
Ever so slowly the average CMU student 
trudges to his mailbox on a Monday 
afternoon, looking for the letter that could 
be the only thing to help him forget the 
thoughts of school work weighing heavy on 
his mind.
First glimpse in the tiny box brings a 
spark of optimism which vanishes as he 
reads a bold print message boasting the 
opportunity to start a business with 
guaranteed initialization funds of up to five 
hundred dollars, tax exemption, and the 
permission to go door to door, all over the 
campus, for promotion.
His initial reaction is to file the offer with 
the rest of his too-good-to-be-true mail, but 
something makes him keep reading and he 
realizes that these oppurtunities really do 
exist at CMU: STUDENT CORPORA
TION.
Student Corporation does not advertise in 
bold letters, but its message is very 
important. The non-profit corporation was 
designed to give CMU students practical 
experience in the business field, while 
helping them to realize that academic 
courses teach theory; however, the actual 
application of this theory is often very 
different.
According to Mike Gottfried, the very 
enthusiastic president, Student Corp. can 
best be described as an umbrella 
sheltering five different entities, as well as 
one which is about to be launched this year. 
They are: the Campus Cheese Company, 
the T-Shirt Company, Disc Corporation, 
Rent-a-Tech, WRCT( legal aspects), and the 
new Allegheny Computer Technology. 
Each one of these entities is open to all
students, with each company offering workstudy arrangements.
The cheese company is managed by Leila 
Abdu, a junior AMS. The company takes 
orders from all over campus community, 
buys cheese in bulk from a wholesale 
distributor and then distributes the cheese at 
a more economical price. Approximately 
one order of cheese(100 to 150 pounds) is 
averaged every two weeks. Workers in the 
labor division are paid a flat salary and sales 
people work on commission.
The T-Shirt Company works on the same 
salary system and has been very successful in 
the past year. Anyone interested can to go 
the company with an original design or an 
idea for in-house designers, sizes, shirt 
colors, and ink colors. The T-Shirt 
Company has its own printing room in the 
basement of Woodlawn, and is managed by 
Gottfried.
Disc Corporation is relatively new to 
Student Corp. It was created last year by 
Marcus Wittich and Mark Wright to custom 
print designs on discs (or frisbees). Their 
first big job was an order for last years 
Spring Carnival. They also have plans for 
custom designs for Homecoming weekend, 
this years Spring Carnival, and other 
Pittsburgh events.
Rent-a-Tech, managed by Bill Orloskie, 
is one of the oldest entities within Student 
Corp. They are basically a giant 
handyman to the CMU campus and 
community, offering every service from 
babysitting to fixing a temperamental stereo.
The new company to be launched this 
year, Allegheny Computer Technology 
(ACT) will be managed by its creatorfreshmen Ron Wiener. ACT will work 
diiectly with small businesses interested in
No, Fu nd e byuddtehA cu ivv
ARE. IT'S THE FAMILY NAME/
IMA Freshman^r.j 
wo's A s.bl.t.yu 
freshman.
you
WANT TO 6E 
A FRESHMAN Senior?
HeToGEoS OR MgoG^V,  .gHo
To GE E SORHOMoRg
THIS 
UNT\L
^ ^ V ,  . YEAR?'?
No, 'ca^e 3y 
THEN I'LL BE
A ^UN\0R FRESHMAN 
Sophomore f reshman
CAM
AIT
aort
investing in a computer system; giving 
recomendations and programming 
suggestions for certain computers that will 
best benefit the businesss needs and 
financial restrictions.
Do you have a interesting idea for the 
beginnings of a company?
Meeting are held every Tuesday at 5 pm in 
Skibo 13.
Hi; Excuse ME, BuT they Nhws pa
rgsofm is i 
puevva e d54bl2t.yu A -A
0yudltehGim nSqH'
o. K.) WHAT'S 
your name?
JOEFRESHEN, "JR.
ITH0U6HT iou 
AlO y ou WER E A
n
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
James Bond 
classics 
at CMU
By JOSEPH NARDONE
1tartan Staffuniter
Enthusiasts or maniacs have established 
fan clubs all over the world. From Elvis to 
jthe Three Stooges, movies have found a way 
to bring these fans in touch with their heroes 
lin a series or a film festival. Currently at 
CMU another great movie series is being 
shown: the early movies of Sean Connery as 
James Bond.
The series is comprised of seven of Sean 
Connerys early movies along with two of 
j^oger Moores earliest efforts. These movies 
were picked since they were considered the 
classic James Bond episodes. Movies like 
Moonraker were left out because they were 
thought to have been over-burdened with 
sophisticated gadgetry.
Powerful exhibit opening at Forbes Gallery
By SARAH RATCHYE
Special for the Tartan
Forbes Gallerys second offering erf the 
season features the work of Frank Crisafio, 
Zhanna Becker, and Sue Ewald. It is a wellbalanced exhibit of lighdy charged, intense 
artwork.
Frank Crisafios prints and 
drawings evoke both naive art 
and that of the surrealists. 
Drawing on intuition and 
imagery hidden within the self, the artist 
creates an ambiguous, mystical world.
* Representational symbols arranged 
inside a deep textural space form maps of 
the emotional travels within the artist and 
between the artist and his materials. At times 
this journey to self seems to have been 
painfully carved from the medium. Other 
works are of a light-hearted game or dance
that Hpfipc oravitv
Unreal forms, places and events govern 
the work of Zhanna Becker. Each picture is a 
window into a fantastic, enigmatic and 
personal world. Three-legged animals and 
many-winged birds float or fly through 
layered, color-charged space. The figures 
appearing in her work are highly distorted.
A relatively stable architecture divides and 
limits the ground and the characters. The 
mysterious relations between both the fig
ures and the animals is further intensified by
the artists use of Russian words in the pic
tures.
Sue Ewalds prints and drawings are in 
sharp contrast to the sensual innocence of 
the works of Becker and Crisafio. The 
artists concern with restriction, anger, and 
defiance is strongly expressed in her wri
thing, screaming figures. Although all the 
figures are corsetted, at times their sexuality 
is ambiguous.
Standing alone against a deep unforgiv
ing stark space, each shows the extreme of 
physical and mental anguish. The cause of 
which is within the modem world and 
within us all. The artists use of expressive 
color and dramatic light create a formal ten
sion that intensifies these pictures powerful 
disturbing imagery.
I believe the viewer will find the works of 
these artists visually and intellectually capti
vating. The exhibit will be on display Sep
tember 21-24.
"Eleven Alumni" to show at Forbes
photo by Chuck Hartmann
Artists Becker, Crisafio, and Ewald will have 
heir works displayed at the Forbes Gallery 
next week.
By RAMONA WALLS
Tartan Staffuniter
On Tuesday, September 28, the Forbes 
Gallery will open a new show: Eleven 
Alumni. The exhibit will be running from 
the twenty-eighth until the tenth of October, 
during normal gallery hours of eleven a.m. 
to six p.m., Wednesdays through Saturdays. 
The shows opening will be Tuesday 
evening at eight oclock, and some of the 
artists who live locally should be present.
The show, which was put together by the 
gallerys new director Neil Winkel, will 
showcase some of the works of eleven CMU 
alumni (mosdy graduates of the fifties and 
sixties). The alumni, along with the type of 
art they will be displaying, in alphabetical 
order, are: Hugh Kepets  prints, Lynne 
Marcovski  collage, George Morris  
paintings, George Nama  prints, James 
Nelson  paintings, Shalom Noiman  
sculpture, Philip Pearlstein  prints, 
Richard Rappaport  paintings, Teresa 
Rozewski-bronze casting, David Schirm 
drawings, and Andy Warhol  serigraphs.
The gallery is excited that one of the 
artists, David Schrim, will have some of his 
works on display at Carnegie International, 
a large show at die Carnegie Institute that 
will be opening in October. Two others, 
Lynne Marcovski and James Nelson also 
have works on display at the PPA Gallery in
Oakland.
A large portion of the pieces that will be 
on exhibit are from private homes. About a 
quarter of the works are from the Michael 
Berger Gallery in Shadyside, and some of 
the pieces came direcdy from the artists. All 
of the works will be for sale.
There are two main aims of Eleven 
Alumni. The first is to say something 
about CMUs artist alumni. The second, 
which is the reason behind the variety of
among our alumni.
This show will be the second in the 
gallery after the current renovations. Along 
with the renovations, the gallery has also 
initiated a new identity program which 
includes their logo, colors, and the gallerys 
name. (The Street has been dropped to 
change Forbes Street Gallery to just Forbes 
Gallery.)
The gallery is hoping for good coverage 
of the show  including television  and
media, is to show the diversity of styles expects a good turn out."Star Trek" creator plans 
a landing at Skibo
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
Star Trek lives again! On Wednesday, 
September 22, the Great Bird of the Galaxy 
himself will visit the Skibo Ballroom. At 
7:30 Wednesday evening, Gene Roddenberry will speak about the making of his hit 
series, Star Trek.
Before the speech, Mr. Roddenberry will 
dine with some lucky students from Student 
Senate, The Tartan, and of course the Activ
ities Board, which is sponsoring the lecture.
Tickets for the lecture itself, however, are 
on sale at the Skibo Information Desk, if 
they arent sold out. Tickets are $1.00 with
student ID, or $2.00 with faculty or staff ID.
Besides speaking about Star Trek, and 
answering questions about the series, Mr. 
Roddenberry will bring the famous (or 
infamous) Blooper Reel, which contains 
scenes which never made it onto television
 mistakes, off-color jokes, and just plain 
fooling by your favorite stars.
The audience will also be treated to a 
viewing of the series original pilot, The 
Cage. This pilot, which the network actu
ally turned down, was eventually seen as 
The Menagerie, a two-part episode of the
senes.
continued on pag 17
Bart Huitema, film chairman and head 
projectionist, reported that this is the second 
semester that a series of works by one person 
has been shown on campus. Last year the 
series featured Alfred Hitchcock. Bart also 
mentioned that the movies were picked by 
him personally to ensure that the best of 
Bond would be shown. Bart has an interest 
in Bond movies and is a fanatic in his own 
right
Ian Fleming created James Bond as a 
character for many of his books. The movies
have mosdy come from loose interpretations 
erf Flemings work. Some of the movies bear 
no resemblance at all to the writings of 
Fleming. Still the James Bond series has 
become the most popular erf its kind in 
history. Box office sales easily out pace such 
favorites as Clint Eastwood or John Wayne.
The series began in 1962 when Doctor No 
was released. Each successive year after that
another movie was released up through 
1965. These movies included From Russia 
with Love in 1963, Goldfinger in 1964, and 
Thunderball in 1965. However, From 
Russia with Love is not included in the 
series currently showing at CMU because 
Bart Huitema felt that other movies better 
displayed the essence of James Bond. There 
are a total of eleven James Bond movies on
the market with hopes of more to come.
The movies will be shown in Doherty 
Hall every other Sunday. Show times are: 
6:00, 8:30, and 11:00. If you have any 
suggestions or personal favorites that you 
might want to see in a series give Bart 
Huitema a call in the AB office during the 
afternoon.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
WIEOnE/OflV
SEPTEMBER 22 
9^30-12:00 130-4 00
Brino in any technical pen 
to be cleaned 
fifty que/tion/ to be 
an/we red
"E! Grande de Coca-Cola" fizzles in Lab
CIO ARTSTORE
By L. G. TROVATO
Tartan Staffurriler
Were you ever sitting around drunk in 
your backyard with a bunch of old friends, 
and thought to yourself, This conversation 
is hysterical. We should write it down. It 
would make a great play. 
Unfortunadey, I think the 
^ five authors of El Grande De 
Coca-Cola, a musical now 
playing at Pittsburgh Laboratory7 Theatre, 
did just that. I guess they thought their 
personal schtick was so funny, it just had to 
be published. And then they found someone 
brainless enough to do so.
The action of El Grande De Coca-Cola 
takes place in a nightclub in Honduras, 
where the owner and M.C. has convinced 
the local populace that he is bringing 
international cabaret stars to his sleazy 
establishment, and has enlisted the financial 
support of the local Coca-Cola bottling 
plant.
But instead, he employs his rather 
untalented relatives, who must then pretend 
they are a variety of performers of different 
nationalities, as well as doing an occasional 
commercial for Coke. The show begins with 
this nightclub act, which is all performed in 
a fractured Spanish, German, French, and 
English.
The problem with the production at the 
Lab is that the actors are not good enough to 
play bad actors well. With the exception of 
Michael J. Sherman (who does the shows 
funniest number, The Nazi Twist, as well 
as serving as pianist for the show) the
performers are mosdy just embarrassing.
And considering the poor quality of the 
material to begin with,this production 
never gets very far, and certainly nowhere 
near entertaining. There are some funny 
moments (famous Shakespeare monologues
done in Spanish - Adios, diable spotto! )but 
they are few and far between.
I have some questions for the directors, 
Ken Gargaro and Melanie Smith. What was 
the point? Was this a parody? Was it 
supposed to be sarcastic? Tacky?
Ingenuous? All of these? None of these? 
Who can tell? Who cares? -
Pittsburgh Labs next production is 
Lenny, about the life of comedian Lenny 
Bruce. I hope they get their artistic goals 
straightened out before then.
"Soul of a New Machine1
Computer novel poorly programmed
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffwriter
The Soul of a New Machine won the 1982 
Pulitzer Prize. Playboy described the book as 
Brilliant and original, the Minneapolis 
Tribune thought that it was Fascinating, 
(Spock must not be dead), the 
. Ap Detroit Free Press fomd it to be 
Remarkable; to be brief, Mr. 
Tracy Kidder has quite a success 
on his hands.
I didnt like the book much. I expect great 
things from Pulitzer winners, and there 
wasnt much great about the book.
Mr. Kidder did his homework; he care
fully describes, (in excruciating detail), every 
aspect of computer researach and produc
tion in the market today. He gives one good, 
and presumably accurate view of the indus
try. The story, circulating around the devel
opment of a new computer, has real 
promise. Unfortunately, that promise is 
never fulfilled.
The introduction is okay. It introduces us 
to Tom West, who builds computers for a 
living. After demonstrating superhuman 
endurance on an yacht trip, you really want 
to know more about him. Thats the time
Mr. Kidder picks to launch into a long des
cription of a computer development center 
and the current computer market, thereby 
killing all interest in Tom West. By the time 
he shows up again, youve nearly forgotten 
who he is.
Thats Mr.Kidders problem all along. He 
gets too wrapped up in technicalities and 
market descripions. Its like reading a com
posite of a DEC manual and a Ludlum 
story. Theres no human drama.
The problem, (building the new compu
ter within a company-mandated schedule), 
is so dehumanized that it is difficult to sym
pathize with anyone in the story. Brief biog
raphies are thrown in; they make pretty 
good reading. Unfortunately, they are not 
the story.
Im making the book sound worse than it 
actually is. I get really upset when someone 
or something receives an award its not 
worthy of, and I think this is one of those 
cases. The story was okay, he actually made 
the computers themselves pretty interesting, 
and some of the people described are inter
esting. It is not a classic in any sense of the 
word. If he had made it into an adventureish, 007-style novel, okay. If it was a dry
documentary, okay. Unfortunately, he 
picked an odd style that mixed the two. I 
thought it was kind of tacky, and the pub
lishers of America decided that it was the 
best book of the year. Whom are you to 
believe?
F if teen-year-old Robert McNaughton, who 
starred as Michael in E.T., recently 
completed a guest lecture series on the topic 
of acting in Pittsburgh.

---------------------------------------------------

September 21, 1982The TartanPage 17
Cheap Trick scores high with "One on One"
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
When Cheap Trick first came into exist
ence in 1977, they brought forth a unique 
pop sound that appealed to a young teen 
audience.
Tall, svelte, long-haired 
Robin Zander won his share of 
hearts with his perpetual sug
gestive smile, and energetic rock 
veteran Rick Neilson with his psychedelic 
clothes and impressive guitar collection was 
always amusing on stage. But teen trends are 
unstable  one can indeed be here today 
and gone tomorrow.
So the group took steps toward broaden
ing its audience, a movement that culmi
nated in the 1981 smash hit Surrender. 
Now Neilson and company are back with 
their newest and by far most mature album, 
One on One.
It became obvious the quartet had some
thing different when they presented If You 
Want My Love, their first single release 
with a serious air. Featuring straightforward 
lyrics and strong, sincere, often pleading 
intonation by Robin Zander, the song has 
enormously helped album sales.
The remainder of the LP is just as novel. 
Neilsons lyrics are often cryptic but always
amusing, and the music is fresh and catchy, 
particularly in the title track and Time is 
Runnin. But by far the most outstanding 
song is Shes Tight, an adorable if not 
slightly risque number that features some 
interesting sound effects, and a throaty,
somewhat deranged vocal style.
Cheap Trick has come a long way to pro
duce One on One. This attempt at securing 
a broader based appeal is quite successful 
with superior tunes that are infectious, 
clean, and above all, fun.
IInchon
Olivier as MacArthur
AB Concerts sponsors 
Bromberg in the afternoon
By KAREN ERIKSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Sunday the 12th was a beautiful day, hot 
and sunny, perfect for lying on Flagstaff 
listening to good music. And that is exactly 
what the crowd was doing the afternoon AB 
Concerts sponsored David Bromberg in con
cert with Rick Danko.
The concert, which was supposed to start2* two, was delayed when Rick Danko failed 
to show on time. It was then discovered, and 
announced, that he had been located at a 
nearby Howard Johnsons. He reportedly 
thought the show wasnt until 8 oclock in 
the evening.
Meanwhile, some people relaxed in the 
shade along the sides and back of Flagstaff 
Hill while the hardier souls braved the sun, 
tossing frisbees, playing hackey-sack, and 
catching some rays.
Finally, Danko, who formerly played 
with The Band, began playing at around a 
quarter of three accompanied by an ener
getic harmonica player. His songs were 
pretty laid back. Danko played for about an 
hour and after a break David Bromberg 
came on. He was sometimes accompanied 
by two acoustic musicians. When he played 
solo he accompanied himself on acoustic 
guitar.
Bromberg played mostly bluegrass and 
country flavored songs. Some were really 
laid back while others people really got into, 
dancing together with a parachute and with 
Object, a wooden box which someone car
ried into the middle of the crowd.
Bromberg played mosdy other peoples 
music and just a few of his own songs. It was 
a great, mellow way to spend a Sunday 
afternoon.
By LEO TROVATO
Tartan Staffwriter
Old soldiers never die, they just fade 
away, said General Douglas MacArthur. 
Apparently great actors never die either. 
Lord Laurence Olivier, the finest actor of 
 our age (did I really just say 
that?) plays MacArthur in 
Inchon, a movie that is osten' sibly about the famous generals
most famous battle.
But it is more about Olivier, an old warhorse himself, proving once again that fine 
acting isnt reserved to Robert DeNiro, John 
Gielgud, or CMUs dramats. Just when one 
thinks Oliviers finally going to call it quits, 
as I did when I saw him in Brideshead
Revisited, he comes out with something 
new, as if to say, The hell with these kid 
actors. Beat this!
The point is, the old boys still cooking. 
No meaningless cameos for Larry. Playing a 
man twenty-five years his junior, Olivier 
gives a death-defying performance as 
MacArthur. Literally. Olivier is now very ill, 
and some of the footage of him is ghostly. 
But its also inspiring to watch.
The film is not, however. The rest of the 
cast is merely functioning as toy soldiers, if 
you will, in the heavy hands of director Ter
ence Young. Ben Gazzara as Major Hollingshead wanders about in a monotone daze, 
especially in his scenes with Jacqueline 
continued on page 18
Roddenberry at CMU
continued from page 15
This cosmic lecture is brought to you by 
AB Lectures. AB Lectures has other lectures 
planned for this semester. For instance, Vin
cent Bugliosi will speak in October. The 
murder fans out there will remember Bugli
osi as the prosecutor in the Charles Manson 
trial (which was a cosmic experience itself).
What does November 22 mean? No its 
not mid-semester break. Its the anniversary 
of the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Its
also the date of an AB Lecture with David 
Lifton, who will present evidence that the 
assassination was the result of a conspiracy.
But how can that compare to Gene 
Roddenberry?
Once again, the Great Bird will appear in 
the Skibo Ballroom on Wednesday, Sep
tember 22, at 7:30. Tickets are on sale at the 
Skibo Information Desk  if the Klingons 
havent bought all of them.
.U
SURVEY FOR RESTRUCTURING SKIBO GREY MATTER
The University administration is considering the redevelopment of the Skibo grey matter space. This 
project will take place only if the students demonstrate a desire for a change. Below is a brief survey form 
that we would like you to fill out. If the student body consensus is to restructure the grey matter, the input 
from the surveys and from interested parties will be used in the planning process for this project.
Skibo Grey Matter Committee Members: 
Brad Walter 
Lois Cox
t Monica Cellio
Anne Witchner 
John Wooldridge 
Judy Ivanshultz 
Byron Falchetti
Should the Skibo grey matter be:
? Modified
? Removed
? Maintained As Is
If you would like to see the grey matter removed or modified, what would you like 
see in the space?
? Traditional Lounge Furniture
? Plants
? Art Work for Walls
? Recreational Activities
? Other (please specify)
What type of activities/atmosphere would you like to see in the space?
? Relaxation
? Study
? Active Recreation
? Meeting Space
? Other (please specify)
Would you be interested in participating with planning the project?
? Yes .
Name _______________________________________
Phone _________________________________________
? No
All completed surveys should be sent to:
Byron R. Falchetti 
Office Of Facilities Planning 
Warner Hall, Room 312

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Simple, synthesized, space rock  new direction
By TOM WOODLEY
Tartan Staffwriter
With their recent release, Signals, Rush 
clearly defines their new musical direction 
to be a heavily synthesized, but simplified 
rock sound.
The lively and energetic
 rhythm guitars, melodic bass 
lines and classical percussion 
effects so characteristic of Rushs 
former style is not evident in Signals. 
Instead, Rush has entered a kind of space 
rock realm, dominated by soaring key
boards, cold metallic guitar chords and an 
evasive, offbeat drumming style.
To the novice listener of Signals, Rush 
presents pleasant melodic style deep with
feeling and emotion. The Rush connois
seur, however, will notice that they have 
explored new ground and worked with sev
eral innovative concepts. The ideas are effec
tual and likeable but it takes time to adjust 
to the new expressions and moods.
While this new style lacks the fast runs 
and crashing chords so appealing to Rush 
fans before, the essence and charm of Rush 
still underline their new music. Geddy Lee 
(bass, vocals, keyboards) and Alex Lifeson 
(guitars) continue to create their foreign, 
unearthly music while Neil Peart (drums, 
percussion) composes lyrics which stretch 
the musical images to their bounds.
Lifesons enthralling rhythm guitar has 
been altered in Signals but is still a comple
COLLEGIATE COUPON
McCluresrir>
Carpeting
Ask for DAVE GERMAN
1701 E. Carson Street 
(5 Minutes from Oakland) 
381-5140
Paint SuppliesAll Styles All colorsRoom size rugs, remnents
15% Discount on carpeting 
(9 x 12 Carpet Only $39.95)
BRING IN COUPON
menting rather than a leading style. An 
excellent example would be found in Dig
ital Man where instead of' directing the 
music, the guitar works from behind, accen
tuating the movement of the music.
Fortunately, as is not the case with many 
high-tech bands, Rush also retains control 
over their music and is still able to make the 
natural transitions in atmosphere and beat 
so remarkable in their previous albums. 
While only slighdy weakening the strength 
in their beat, the changed style gives them 
more contrast and climax while providing 
much more ground with which to work.
Perhaps to mesh easily with their new 
off-world musical ideas, the album concept 
deals closely with dreams. 'Subdivisions, 
the first track and very characteristic of the 
album is a pleasant piece fronted with 
smooth, simple keyboard chords, backed 
with solid guitar and drum work. Subdivi
sions condemns the life in the suburbs and 
subdivisions as being stifling to dreams and
ambition: opinions all decided/ the future 
pre-decided/ conform or be cast out.
Continuing this thought with The 
Analog Kid, a heavier rocking cut, an 
image of youth is painted  with its wild 
dreams and visions leading to who knows 
where, leaving behind who knows what. A 
beautiful, almost symphonic ballad with a 
fantastic climax, Losing It considers past 
dreams, realized or unrealized, which are 
cause for such despair and frustration.
A final noteworthy piece is The Wea
pon, typical of the new style with singing 
keyboards, complementary guitar and intri
cate drumming, which contains an instru
mental break through part of the song. This 
break, held together by Pearts intense drum
ming, provides an astral atmosphere with 
the keyboards articulated with a guitar solo 
by Lifeson. The chilling effect generated by 
this break displays the true strength of this 
new style, the numerous directions possible 
with it, and the incredible talent of Rush.I nchon tramples on to win
continued from page 17
Bisset as his wife. Obviously any redblooded American soldier of movie vintage 
would treat a woman as gorgeous as Miss 
Bisset carefully, but Gozzara treats her as  
well, an obligatory love interest.
Thus, the silly romantic sub-plot remains 
just that. Miss Bisset also looks unbelievably 
chic and manicured, especially for war-torn 
Korea. God forbid she should break a nail 
during the variety of air assaults, bombings, 
and miscellaneous atrocities she witnesses.
As an assistant of sorts to Gazzara, 
Richard Roundtree gives a winning perfor
mance. He also seems to be the only black
man in Korea. The action shots are great. 
Some unusual camera angles and close-ups 
make this more than your typical land at 
the beach and wipe up the enemy flick. 
The battles are actually scary, and at least tile 
director know s how to stage hordes of men 
and machinery better than he knows how to 
stage a simple love scene.
As a side note, the infamous tax-evader 
Sun Myung Moon is listed as special advi
sor, which I take to mean the movie vyas 
financed by the Moonies. Never fear, how
ever. We still win the war. His influence is 
really only apparent in die attention paid to 
continued on page 23
SCOTCH 'N SODA
PRESENTS
ORIGINAL 
ONEACT PLAYS
OUIJA by CREqq Chrrist
THE BIBLE CALLS IT FORNICATION
by anos AlfoNsi
PLEASE PREPARE A ONEMINUTE, CONTEMPORARY MONOLOGUE
SEpTEMbER 25, Skibo Rm. 11, Noon
fuNdEd by moedcdedsr dss

---------------------------------------------------

__-_______________________Sports.
MU takes third in 1st annual soccer tourney
;y STEVEN WELLER
arum Staffwritrr
With over one hundred spectators 
/atching, the Camegie-Mellon University 
er team, under the direction of Coach 
ick Gaudioso, opened its season against 
neva College (Beaver Falls, PA) on 
:jjday, September 17 and also was the first 
me of the first annual CMU Soccer 
ournament.
The game began about 1:30 with the 
artans playing a more prepared and 
xperienced team. The CMU Soccer team 
:ontains only ten returning players and of 
these only five were starters as Coach 
Gaudioso said, We are still building. 
Geneva won the game three to zero.
In the consolation game on Saturday, the 
Tartans played a better game. Lead by the 
playing of sophomore Neal Frink and 
freshman Owen Ranta and goals by Serge 
Bignens and Theodore Anderer, CMU 
Soccer team beat Edinboro State College 
(Erie, PA) by a final score of two to one.
The Soccer Tourney was won by Geneva 
College over Wheeling College by a score of 
two to zero. Looking at this week, Coach 
Gaudioso said, Trial, Tuesday when we 
play Pitt. The game is at home at 3:30, for 
all Tartan fans to see it. On Friday, the 
Tartans play Hiram which will be an easier 
conference game, but as Coach Gaudioso 
commented teams get up when they play 
CMU.
photo by Gene Yonish
CMU clears the ball in vain against Geneva College who won 3-0.
Tartans mangle Grove City
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Associate Sports Editor
We dominated everywhere, exclaimed 
wide receiver Mark Leposky following a 35- 
14 Tartan decimation of Grove City in 
which the reinforcements allowed the CMU 
first waves to sit the second half out.
CMU wasted no time starting their 
invasion of Grove City turf. The troops 
slowly but steadily drove the Grove City 
defense backwards for a 79 yard touchdown 
campaign which ended with Mike 
Garverick charging through opposition 
lines for a one yard tally before going on to 
rove 90 yards into enemy territory over the 
course of the day.
The rest of the battle was lead by 
quarterback Bill Kiselick. The Snake 
struck relentlessly, envenoming the enemy 
three times.
Kiselicks left arm soon made the contest 
14-0, launching a bomb to the streaking 
Dan Fry for a 63 yard explosion.
However, the air raid did not end there. 
Fifth year senior wide receiver Mark 
Leposky put plan flag into effect, racing 
21 yards before catching up to Kiselicks 
missile for another touchdown.
While the airborne forces took a short rest, 
fullback Brad Huwar took up the attack, 
plunging three yards into the end zone for a 
touchdown.
But still Kiselick was not satisfied with the 
damage inflicted upon his foes. So the Snake
cranked up his left armed catapult for the 
final blow to Grove City. Kiselick fired his 
projectile into the arms of tight end Harley 
Carroll for the final touchdown.
Meanwhile, the Tartan defense broke 
down only once in the afternoon on a 
relatively mediocre Grove City touchdown 
retaliation. Strong safety Paul Scarmazzi 
was all over the battle field throughout the 
seige. At one point Scarmazzi singlehandedly pushed Grove City offenses back 
ten yards with a sack of the opposing 
quarterback.
The other Grove City points came on a 
momentary breakdown of the normally 
supurb special teams machinary. On one of 
the rare CMU punting situations, during 
the confrontation, there was a bad snap. 
This set up the last seven Grove City points 
of the day.
In a communique following the final 
gun, Leposky stated, The way I see it, Bill 
(Kiselick) was the star today. He threw to 
everybody. Everybody was involved. He just 
didnt miss all day.
The official reports on Kiselick are that he 
was 11-13 on the afternoon with 198 yards 
passing.
Leposky concluded his statement saying, 
CMU is on a roll. Our heads are high. But 
that doesnt mean we think other teams are 
going to roll over because were CMU. 
Were just going to go out and play 
everybody tough.
Chico makes choices
Last week was not a beneficial one. The 
Lions and the Seahawks really surprised me. 
Hopefully, Ill have some games to lose this 
week. By the way, I would bet my house on 
San Francisco this week.
This week  (4-9)
Seasonal record  (11-16)
Best bets  (0-3)
Seasonal Best Bets  (0-6)
Best bets for this week  New England, San 
Diego, San Francisco
Falcons over CHIEFS  Atlanta rebounds 
from pasting given by the Raiders. 
Cowboys over VIKINGS  Minnesota is 
not in the same class.
Bucs over LIONS  Although Detroit 
remembers last year, Tampa is desperate for 
a win.
NINERS over Bears  In a total blowout. 
Rams over EAGLES  If L.A. loses, then 
Malavasi is gone.
SAINTS over Broncos  The snake is just
rounding in to shape to upset Denver. 
Cards over REDSKINS  Washington has 
a big let down after two wins.
Jets over COLTS  Baltimore came close 
against Miami but the Jets arent about to be 
upset again.
CHARGERS over Raiders  Air Coryell 
will bomb Marcus Allen and the Raiders 
back up the coast to L.A.
OILERS over Bilb  The upset special of 
the week as the Bills feel the mental affect of 
the Joe Cribbs holdout.
PACKERS over Dolphins  Miami looks a 
week ahead towards Cindnatti while Green 
Bay rebounds from Monday night.
Giants over STEELERS  New York 
covers the spread but does not win.
PATS over Seahawks  New England does 
not like getting blown out at home and will 
take it out on Seattle.
BROWNS over Bengals  Cleveland 
always tough on Monday night.
Runners continue streak 
by winning five more meets
^ Tartan Yvonne Chi (22) says in your face as she spikes the ball.
photo by Todd Prario
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffwritrr
The CMU cross country team has an 
uncanny way of winning almost every time 
they step on a course. Over the past week, the 
Tartans destroyed five teams in two outings.
On Wednesday, September 15, CamegieMellon beat West Liberty and Geneva 
Colleges, and on Saturday, September 18, 
CMU simultaneously crushed Westminster 
College, Duquesne University, and Robert 
Morris College.
The Tartans took on West Liberty and 
Geneva at home. The temperature rose into 
the 80s for the race through Schenley Park, 
but the CMU harriers held up under the 
pessure. When the race was over, CMU had 
taken nine out of the top ten places to shut 
out Geneva, and to beat West Liberty 
handily, 19-44.
Pn Saturday morning, the Tartans went 
on the road to Westminster College, where it
was cool and windy. They took on 
Westminster, Duquesne, and Robert 
Morris. Once again, a pack of CMU runners 
led the race and took ten out of the top 
eleven places. With this excellent finish, 
Camegie-Mellon easily shut all three teams 
out.
After Saturdays meet, the cross country 
teams record is 5-0 in dual meets. These are 
just more wins to add to their ever-growing 
string. The Tartan harriers have now won 
30 straight dual mets. They have also 
reigned at 51 out of their last 52 dual meets, 
and at 101 out of their last 108 duals.
Coach Gary Meckley was pleased with the 
results of these new additions to the winning 
tradition. He is happy to see that everyone is 
holding up under this tough schedule (the 
team ran three races in eight days), and is 
looking foiward to a good performance next 
weekend at the prestigious Indiana 
Invitational.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Intramural football and tennis seasons about to begin 1
This calculator thinks business. TheTI Student Business Analyst.
If theres one thing undergrad 
business students have always 
needed, this is it: an affordable, 
business-oriented calculator. 
The Student Business Analyst. 
Its built-in business formulas 
let you perform complicated 
finance, accounting and 
statistical functionsthe ones 
that usually require a lot of 
time and a stack of reference 
books, like present and future 
value calculations, amortiza
tions and balloon payments.
It all means you spend less 
time calculating, and more 
time learning. One keystroke 
takes the place of many.
The calculator is iust Dart
of the package. You also get 
a book that follows most 
business courses: the Business 
Analyst Guidebook. Business 
professors helped us write it, 
to help you get the most out 
of calculator and classroom. 
A powerful combination.
Think business.
With the Student
Business Analyst.
Comdn;dLasto;Ld
* SEP ^
Hot and heavy IM football contests began this week.
photo by John Stilwell
The second intramural board meeting of 
the year will be held on Thursday, Sep
tember 23 at 1:00 in Room 104. All board 
members should plan on attending.
IM football schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office or on the IM 
bulletin board. This season will host the 
most number of teams ever. Games will be 
played at 8:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. during the 
week and from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on the 
weekends. Late games will officiate early 
games and vice-versa. Please turn in all 
game equipment following the last game of 
the day. Standings will be posted on the IM 
bulletin board.
Schedules for IM tennis are out and can 
also be picked up in the IM offices. The 
commissioners for the tennis league will be 
Anne R. Witchner x2107 and Dave KcKeon 
x2626. All games must be played as sche
duled. The scores should then be turned in to 
the commissioners or the IM office.
Commissioner Jim Borowicz 682-5588 
will lead the rest of the linksters into the 1982 
IM golf tournament on Oct. 3rd at the 
Schenley Park Golf Course. Tee off time 
will be at 11:00 a.m. You may enter as an 
individual or as a five man team.
Entries are due for the following sports on 
Thursday, September 23rd at 4:30 p.m.:
Co-rec volleyball, led by comm. Joe Bares 
x3405 or 367-2959, will begin its season very 
soon. To enter you must have 8 men and 8 
women on your team. Three of each sex 
play at a time. To help those who dont 
know how to play there will be a rules clinic 
held before the season begins.
For all you Bobby Fisher fans, IM chess 
will begin. Ed Klegr x8646 will be comm, 
and schedules and match dates will be up 
soon so check the bulletin board.
The waterpolo season would like to 
begin except it has no comm. If anyone 
would like the job please contact the IM 
office. For all teams involved, they must 
provide a certified Life Guard for practice 
sessions and games.
Cross Country also needs a commis
sioner. To enter the IM Cross Country Meet, 
you may run as a 5 person team or as an 
individual. Women must make a special 
entry if they want to be involved.
For additional information pertaining to 
the Intramural Program please call board 
president Dave Penz at 687-0434 or Mr. 
Birdy at x2214.

---------------------------------------------------

Now it can
cost half
as much 
to call home
for money.
LONG DISTANCE CALLSMINS.BELLMCISAVINGS
New York City to Miami24$ 6.45$4.1535.7%
Boston to Los Angeles4112.207.9335.0
Minneapolis to St. Louis51.40.8440.0
Washington, D.C. to Durham1.34.1555.9
Memphis to New Orleans317.915.1035.5
Austin to Philadelphia71.961.2138.3
Phoenix to San Francisco102.691.6937.2
Rates show comparative pricing between Bells evening rate and MCls evening rate. Final rate authorities on all tariffed services are MCI Tariff FCC 1 and AT&T Tariff FCC 263.
 '
your long distance calls 15 to 50%.
And MCI will give you a 
free five minute phone call* 
anywhere on our nationwide 
network.
Simply call the number 
shown on the right.MCI
The nations long distance phone company.
Campbells Run Road, Bldg. 1, Suite 420 
Pittsburgh, PA 15276
412-787-8885
? I want to cut the cost of my long distance calls 15 to 50%. Please send 
me more information.
Name
School Address
CityStateZip
Permanent Address
CityStateZip
Phone number at School
At NK I - ntght ,u*l wvckmd r.itcL_CMUUJ
Come see us at Morewood Gardens & Donner Hail.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanSeptember 21, 1982
Foot evolution: the sorted origin of socks
Note to the readers, this weeks column is 
one of a two part column about the conspi
racy of sock companies to remove money 
from our pockets. The first column is about 
the invention of the sock. The second is 
about the actual problem itself. What does 
one do with mismatched socks?
By Orpheus Allison 
During prehistoric times, man had no 
need for a piece of attire to keep his feet 
warm since feet were much tougher then 
than they are now. However, after a brief 
period of time, Prometheus, or 
some other liberated soul, 
decided that man was suffering 
too much. Therefore, man was 
given fire.
Thus, it occured to man that if he did not 
want to have his feet get cold, then he had to 
find a way to keep the heat of the fire with
his feet.
At first, he tried placing coals from the fire 
on his feet. Theorizing that if the coals were 
hot from the fire, then they must be hot all 
the time. Man got burned.
The second discovery was that when hot 
feet were applied to a floor that was cold and 
had a slight covering of ice on it, a curious 
but dangerous phenomena appeared. The 
floor became slippery. The discovery of the 
above postulates had a minor highlight, in 
that it was again discovered in the 1950s 
as the Shake, Rattle, and Roll phenomenon.
Another highlight was the name applied 
to a rougher version of the sock. The slipper. 
First applied to the name of the spot where 
man fell first. Later applied to the device 
put on in the evening. This caused man to 
remember his first experience with the 
movement of his center of gravity.
But back to the thread of this tale. After he 
regained consciousness, man realized that 
he was really cooking. At least his feet were. 
So, man began his systematic search for a 
device to carry heat with his feet. At first, 
man took the items that were closest at hand. 
Namely the tufts of hair from the animals 
that he killed.
When these were tucked into a shoe, they 
provided some of what man was seeking. 
However, man was forever unsatisfied. So 
he tried other things such as sows ear. This 
idea was passed over because, sows do not 
like to have their ears stepped on.
Finally, after many threads of thought 
were explored, man decided to weave the 
fibers together. This proved to be the item 
that man was looking for. Thus, in a 
moment of clarity, man created the sock.
At the same time that man was exploring 
the sock thread, he was also exploring the 
avenue of government. When word slipped
out that man was weaving threads into 
socks, every bureaucrat wanted one. It 
would be nice to tie up loose ends with.
Along with wanting to tie up loose ends, 
all the bureaucrats wanted to have special 
socks to identify their rank. The more colors 
there were, indicated rank. Also, many lead
ers wanted their colors in certain patterns so 
that their rank could become their coat of 
feet.
By Ralph M. Sherman
Or, perhaps, President Reagan may yet 
parody Shakespeare, to mock Jack Kemp: 
Now is the winter of our discontent, Made 
glorious summer by this sun of New York. 
^ And, with good reason would 
Mr. Reagan do so. The RepreXr sentatives from the Buffalo area 
did so recently lead a group of 
House Republicans that tried to keep the 
President true to his pledge that he was not 
coming to power to raise taxes. All of which 
reminds me of Benjamin Disraelis admoni
tion, Damn your principles! Suck to your 
party.
Undoubtedly, not only increased taxes 
will be at issue this fall; there is the less 
disguisable unemployment rate at a post 
World War II high. (9.8% of the work-force, 
or 10.8 Million persons) An unusual, some 
even argue, cruel rate of bankruptcies is still 
holding. Reagan and the Members of Con
gress of the Republican Party will certainly 
argue that the drop in interest rates and 
inflation are bonuses.
It will be interesting to see if the revived 
stock market, booming partially because of 
predictions that business will not be recoverAnd this lead to families trying to keep up 
with a fashion. And thus, as more and more 
sock pairs were produced, more and more 
were separated.
Next week: National Dilemma.
Mateless socks,
Orpheus Allison is a freshman major in" 
in History and is a columnist for The * * 
Tartan.
ing soon, will be a plus or a minus for 
Republican office-seekers and holders.
Most importantly, who will lose the 
paternity suit over the recession, an 
orphaned child of disputed parenthood? 
November will tell us of Democratic past 
policy or Republican current policy wii ^ 
pay the sore costs of child support, with the 
gain or loss in the ranks of elected officials.
Ronald Reagan has held sway on the 
Hill, persuading in his oh-so-nice manner 
recalcitrant Republicans to stay loyal, and 
Boll Weevil Democrats not to; he has 
counted upon a loyal Senate and a mallea
ble House to give him major victories time 
and again. The magic is made of numbers; 
though the Senate will likely remain in 
GOP control, the House, nominally Demo
cratic, may be a changed body come next  
January.
It may be a chilly Congress that returns in 
1983 with the loss of a dozen or so seats to 
the Democrats possible. And these Repre
sentatives more boldly anti-Reagan. The 
recent veto override may be an omen of 
things to come for the President: though 
indeed unlikely such a popular Chief Execcontinued on page 23
FRESHMEN!
TAU BETA PI
The National Engineering Honor Society 
Is Offering
FREE TUTORING
For The Fall Semester Courses Of:
CALCULUS I 
PHYSICS I 
DYNAMICS AND EQUILIBRIA
Tau Beta Pi members will be available to help you 
every Wednesday from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. in Wean 
Hall 5415. 
For more information or to make special 
arrangements, call John Franjione, 683-0271 or 
Brian Sauk, 621-2911.
Great Moments in the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
f&fcgUT
cRfccnmms.
PRECSON HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post Office
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
Is this Reagan's fall?

---------------------------------------------------

4-IF A\ /FH 105 Sixth Street
I\y I (412)-2-H-E-A-V-E-N
Thurs. Night The Bush Tetras
with Special Guest Boystown 
Thurs. Sept. 30 Our Daughter's Wedding
with Special Guest R.E.M.
Coming in Oct. Billy Idol, P yola$
Oct. 6th  Buddy Gacing in HEAVEN
Come Dine in Grace & Elegance in 
HEAVEN'S Restaurant Les Nuages
Call 2-H-E-A V-E-N tor Information & Reservations
September 21, 1982The TartanPage 23
Looking at Reagan's reign
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
John S. Brendel 
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger*,
Professional Corporation
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS 
(GREEN CARDS)
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS 
RELATIVE PETITIONS 
CITIZENSHIP 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
Sy PAULINE KRAMER
artan Staffwriter
Angered by their lackluster performances 
n the previous match, CMUs womens ten
nis players stormed back last Monday and 
Lknly disposed of Geneva College, 8-1.
This being the third of four nononference matches, the netters again played 
the six singlesthree doubles format. It was 
an uncomfortably humid day; as a result, 
Coach Bush advised his players to pace 
themselves.
Andrea Fabrega, Brenda Goldstein, and
Pauline Kramer, the third, fourth, and fifth 
singles players, respectively, followed their 
coachs advise exactly, preventing their 
opponents from winning a game.
Lorena Miller, at #6, and Bridget Kyne, 
who comfortably returned to her top singles 
position, each dropped just four games in 
their straight set victories.
All three doubles teams played impres
sively, eliminating any chance whatsoever 
for Geneva to redeem itself from its poor 
overall performance in singles play.
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
IOWENBRAU lt., Die.-bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEISER*
MILLER'
OLD ENGLISH 800"
SCHLITZ MALT"
IRON CITY*
ERLANGERbottles 
GENNESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS*
PABST*
SCHLITZ*
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARKbottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE-bottles*
COLT 45- 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
'available in quarts ols6
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steal<*Corned Beef*Tuna*Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddoc k.Cod*G round Steak.Sousoge 
Veol*Chuck*Chtcken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs^Fresh Cut French Frtes 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condtments 
Pizzo served till 3am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday lpm-2am 
Imports, Cans, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKEN*MOLSON ALEMICHELOB 
STROHS*MILLER*SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk. 
feotured each week: 
STROHS*ROLLING ROCK*SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500*SCHLITZMALT*PABST
ST PAlili GIRI Germany 
DOS EQU1S XX -Me.co 
HARP tAGER - Ireland JOHN COURAGE fnylan
MOtSON GOLDEN Canada WATNEYS - Enylc
BASS ALE England
HEINEKEN lt. Dk. Hollc 
IOWENBRAU -Germany 
O KEEFE AtE - Canada 
PIISNER ORQUHl Czech 
KIRIN Japan
MACKESON STOUT Ireland 
OlD VIENNA IAGER 
55IAGER Canada
CARISBERG EtEPHANT Den 
CARISBERG ROYAtE Denmark 
CARISBERG DARK -Denmark 
TSINGTAO-Ch.na 
HACKER PSCHORR Germany 
IABATT S -Canada 
Canada MURPHY -Ireland
COOPER & SON Auslralia 
FOSTER S IAGER Austtal.a
4^ V Open
 9om-3:45am Sun-Thurs
If I 9am-4:45am Fri-Sat
Ei 1MB Call 621-7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland)
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC. PgK Pa 15213
Duquesne University
Union Program Board 
presents 
"an evening of good vibes"
The Gary Burton Quartet
downbeat magazine readers poll 
"best vibist" since'1968
Thursday, September 30 8 p.m.
Duquesne Union Ballroom
Tickets
$5 w/student ID Duquesne Union Info
$7 general public Pitt ticket office
CMU - SKIBO 
Kaufmann's - downtown
Gene Yonish
[Tie Plaid Curtain repeated its performance against Grove City by winning 35-14.
Tennis rebounds from loss
continued from page 22
utive will be lame-ducked so easily, his 
influence may wane sorely.
Like the moons reflection in the waters of 
the Potamac, distorted and shifting, the 
pure shimmering power of persuasion that 
once was may hardly resemble its former 
self.
This will be an interesting test for Rea
gan; this President has fashioned himself on 
the last President whose party actually 
gained in the first Congressional elections 
after his election is Reagan another 
Roosevelt?
It is accepted in the modem era that the 
Presidents party will tend to lose House 
seats, perhaps in protest against that partys 
unfulfilled pledges and changes. This could 
easily re-occur this November.
Reagan would certainly like the oppor
tunity to continue his experiment, and this 
falls decision by the public will prove indic
ative of the likelihood of Reagans desire 
being fulfilled.
Finally, in the coming weeks, Mr. Stahl 
and I will be bringing you our humble opin
ions and debate upon topics of the times.
Perhaps my counterpart may actually , at 
times, sound persuasive, but this only 
further proves Disraelis observation that it 
is . easier ... to be critical than to be 
correct.
I am certain we would both agree upon 
the hope that you all will enjoy our writ
ings, and find them both thoughtprovoking and entertaining. Many thanks.
Ralph M. Sherman is a senior majoring 
in political science and history, and is a 
columnist for The Tartan.
Larry in Korea
continued from page 18
the suffering of the Korean people, which 
dominates the first half erf the film.
As a whole, Inchon is satisfying, if 
somewhat stilted. The action often seems to 
be in slow motion, and the sloppy editing 
makes the plot move by fits-and starts. It just 
takes them so long to get to Inchon that I 
began to lose interest, especially since I knew 
what the outcome of the batde would be. 
But if youre not up on your military his
tory, you might enjoy this film.
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!
Pittsburgh Clean City Committee, Inc.
Pennsylvania does not recognize or certify legal specialties.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
House Sale. Sunday, the 26th. 1 p.m. 3317 Juliet 
St. Oakland. Lots of good stuff. Furniture, glass
ware, china, silver, etc.
Female Housemate Wanted to share beautiful 
Forest Hill house with 3 CMU grads. Own 
bedroom, $116.75+; worth the 15 minute drive! 
Call 683-2018 (office), 243-1184 (home)
Typing and/or editing service. Experienced in 
assisting foreign students or anyone who has dif
ficulty with English. Call Janet 255-1526, 9-5.
Professional typing/word processing. Thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters, 
etc. (MLA-APA & Turabian strongly observed.) 
Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour service 
available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfaction 
guaranteed.
Problems with school, work, or with significant 
others sometimes seem overwhelming. Very 
often professional counseling can help. Call Bill 
Chrisner, 421-0734 for more information.
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES!Research catalog 
 306 pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 to Box 
25097C, Los Angeles, CA 90025. (213)477-8226.
Guitar Lessons - Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
CMU music student, Hhr. - $6; 1 hr. - $10. Call 
Jozsef Toth - 683-7331.
An informal Bible discussion group meets 
every Monday in Room 34, Skibo at 9 p.m. This 
discussion group is open to everyone in the CMU 
community and is nondenominational. Stop by, 
and bring a friend.
WICI, Women in Communications Inc., will be 
holding a meeting for present and potential 
members on Tuesday, September 28 at 5:30 p.m. 
in Room 11 Skibo. All interested Writing, 
Design, and majors are encouraged to attend.
CMU Lacrosse Club organizational meeting 
Tuesday, Sept. 21, 8 p.m. Skibo Room 12. Ques
tions, call 687-6893.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
invites everyone to participate in the planning of 
Homecoming 82. Meetings are held every Thurs
day at 5:30 in WH 505.
The Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine 
is having an organizational meeting on Thurs
day, Sept. 23 at 7:00 p.m. in Skibo Room 13. 
Anyone interested in submissions review, pro
duction, an or promotion should attend. Expe
rience is not necessary. For more information call 
Kristin at x4242.
RUGBY CLUB Practice! Tuesdays and Fri
days at 4:30 p.m., Saturdays at noon. Meet at 
Flagstaff Hill. All members are welcome.
Anyone interested in forming a CMU officials 
chib, please contact Dave Penz, President of the 
Intramural Board at 681-9836 or Mr. Birdy ext. 
2241. The purpose of the organization is to super
vise and train officials to officiate Intramural 
Games in all of the Major Sports in the Intramu
ral Program, here at Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity. If you feel you would like to become a sports 
official or if you have enjoyed officiating in the 
past please give us a call.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFEUNE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
general
Graduate Student Organization Assembly meet
ing Sept. 22nd 7:30 p.m. Rm. 13 Skibo. Welcome 
Dinner for Incoming Grads. Sat. Sept.25th. For 
information contact Charles Krafft x2465.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, October 12, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
CMU Military Veterans Meeting. A meeting is 
scheduled to bring together military veterans 
who are faculty, students, or staff at CMU. Sep
tember 29, 7:30 p.m. Skibo Room 12.
The CMU PEACE ALLIANCE will meet on 
Tuesday, Sept 21st, at 5:30 p.m., W7ean Hall 
#8325. All people concerned with the threat of 
nuclear warfare are welcome to attend.
Student Government Treasurer and Student 
Senate Vacancy elections, September 28,1982. See 
display ad this issue.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students on Tuesdays, 1:30-3:30.
The Camegie-Mellon Child Care Center of 1060 
Morewood Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, 
announces the sponsorship of the Child Care 
Food Program. Meals will be made available to 
children enrolled at the Center and will be pro
vided without regard to race, sex, handicap, 
color, religion, or national origin. Receipt of this 
funding depends upon the economic level of the 
children enrolled at the Center. Under the PA 
1982-83 Family Size and Income Guidelines for 
Free and Reduced Price Meals. Enrolled children 
may be from families whose income is at or 
below that shown on the income guidelines.
Jubilee soup kitchen. The Roman Catholic Cha
plaincy will be woMdng at the Soup Kitchen  
which provides free meals for the poor in the west 
side of Oakland  on Saturday, Oct 2. Oratory at 
681-3181 for more info. All are welcome.
Bnai Brith Hillel Activities
Thursday, Sept. 23
8:00 Israeli Dancing at Hillel Dining Center, 
315 S. Beliefield.
Yom Kippur Schedule 
Sunday, Sept. 26
5:30 Dinner, Hillel Dining Center, Oakland 
JCC 315 S. Belief ield. Please call in reservations 
immediately 621-8875.
7:30 Kol Nidre Service, JCC Auditorium. 
Monday Sept. 27
9:30 Traditional Service, JCC Auditorium 
11:00 Liberal Service, Wherrett Room, Skibo 
5:00->- Afternoon and dosing services, JCC 
Auditorium
7:30 Final Shofar Blowing
8:00 Break-the-Fast Dinner, 2nd floor JCC.
Please call in reservations by Sept. 22: 621-8875.
GYN 
CHECK-UPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Womens Health Services.
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
Birthright seeks volunteers. Birthright of Pitts
burgh, a non-profit, non-sectarian emergency 
pregnancy counseling service is in need of new 
volunteers to counsel distressed pregnant women 
and to provide other services for women in need. 
Training for new volunteers will be held on two 
Saturdays Sept 25 and Oct 2 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Lunch provided. For more info contact the Birth
right Office at 621-1988 or Nancy Sullivan at 
361-1101. College students welcome.
Language Tables:
Mesa Redonda
Tuesdays at noon, starting Oct. 12 
La Table Franaise 
Wednesdays at 11:30, starting Oct. 13 
Deutscher Stammtisch 
Thursdays at noon, starting Oct. 14 
Morewood Dining Room. Sponsored by Euro
pean Studies and Modem Languages programs. 
Interested students, faculty, staff welcome.
WRCT (88.3) features:
Wednesday, Sept. 22 (9 p.m.) and Saturday Sept. 
25 (midnight): BBC College Concerts: Duran 
Duran recorded live in concert. Every Thursday 
(6 p.m.): Weekly Reader: news and views others 
ignore. Every Friday (3 p.m.) through Monday (3 
a.m.): Lots of new wave on WRCT.
WRCT (88.3 FM) presents:
Wed (9 p.m.), Sept. 29 and Sat (midnight), Oct. 2: 
BBC College Concert Hour: Sparks recorded in 
concert.
Mon (5:30 p.m.), Oct. 4: National Radio Theatre: 
Cyrano de Bergerac (Part I)
Everyday (noon, 7 p.m., midnight): News Blimp: 
a look at the world in brief.
events
Fourth Wall opens its 1982 season!:
Musk Live with All New Music-on-stage hve 
political rock and salsa (every Tues. & Sun. 7:30 
p.m.) New-New! Fear Everyone-Jamming Ses
sions on Tues. night for audience musicians. 
Come and play and sing with us! Opens Sept. 22.
Off the Wall (or Did I Put My Foot in Yoi^ 
Mouth?) returns for its fifth season with all new 
material. This year we have music, improvisa
tion, audience partidpation! Anything can 
happen in this zany, hysterical evening of spoof 
and political satire. Opens November 7.
All our shows travel out into your community on 
request  to universities, block parties, chinches 
rallies. You name it, and want us-call our box 
office to arrange it.
Captain Boogie and the
only original rock musical 
rock band. Matinees every Sat. & Sun. at 3:30 p 
Give your kids a chance to come up on stage 
explore the sets with the actors, and do a little 
rocking for the audience. If you have seen Boogie, 
let our ushers take care of your child for the 
afternoon while you sneak a break in neighbor
hood Boutiques and Coffee-houses. Call the box 
office for information on this and on birthday 
party infoimation-let our actors serve your birth
day cake after the show. Opens Sept. 25.
The New Group Theater will be performing this 
fall as guests of Carlow College, with Clifford 
Odets Waiting for Lefty and William Saroyaif^ 
Hello Out There set to open Thui'sday, Sep
tember 30, in Carlows Antonian Theater.
Rehearsals are well under way for both oneacts. Hello Out There, directed by Marty Giles, 
will open each evenings performance, followed 
by Waiting for Lefty, Jim Schneider directing. 
Performances will run Thursday thru Saturday 
evenings at 8 p.m., September 30 thru October 16. 
Tickets are $2, in keeping with the Groups desire 
to reach as broad-based an audience as possible
Antonian Theater is located on Fifth Avenue in 
Oakland, on the Carlow College Campus, acr< 
from the comer of Fifth and Craft. For reseiv! 
tions, or more information, call 431-7662. 
Saturday Film:
Sharkeys Machine 
6, 8:30, 11
Burt Reynolds is back in action. No more of that 
cute crap. This time hes out to stop a pimp/druj 
dealer in his own inimitable way. Rachel Wardi 
along to keep him (us, and Ted) happy.
AMERICA S MOST FAMOUS CAT STARS IN 
HIS FIFTH HILARIOUS BOOK!
GARFIELD 
TAKES 
THE CAKE
Jim Davis
Garfield expands his frontiers  as well as his waist line iti his most diverse and delightful 
book yet. In GARFIELD TAKES THE CAKE, the top cat of corpulence meets a long-lost 
relative, gets hijacked by a duck, escapes from the dty pound and, miracle or miracles, fails in 
love! (He likes it almost as much as lasagna.)emu bookstore*
PREPARE FORMCAT'LSAT-GMAT SAT-DAT GRE  CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPESMfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous home-study mateFials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
Call Days. Eves & Weekends
Essex House LI 2 JIM Corners Center, Negley & Baui 
1Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
CALL 571-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
