MU bids on $103M DOD project
CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
CMU President Richard M. Cyert 
nnounced Tuesday a proposal that would 
ning a $103 million Software Engineering 
astitute (SEI) to CMU and the city of 
ittshurgh.
The SEI project is aimed at improving 
omputer reliability for the United States 
partment of Defense. Other proposals 
nder consideration are from Georgia Tech, 
e University of Michigan, the University 
f iMaryland, a joint bid by Northeastern 
nd Boston Universities, and a Texas group 
f the University of Texas and Texas A&M. 
According to Senator H.John Heinz III 
Pa.), the SEI Besides providing almost 
direct high-tech jobs in Pittsburgh, the 
will focus attention on CMU and 
region as a leading national center of 
computer science and softare technology, and be a magnet for highch firms and further employment
SEI is an institute that will be established 
the coordination of software developthroughout the country and to distribe the software throughout the DOD, said
ert.
Plans call for the facility to be established 
late 1984. It would grow to its full comement of computer software scientists, 
hnidans and support staff within five
ars.
In the fifth year, the SEI annual budget is 
pected to grow to approximately $33 miln, according to CMU Provost Angel G. 
^rdan, who heads the team seeking to 
act the SEI.
selected as the site for the SEI, Carnegielion, with support from the State of Pen'M
An artists depiction of the proposed Software Engineering Institute
Development Corporation (RIDC), would 
begin building a new 137,000 square-foot 
facility next to the Mellon Institute on the 
comer of Fifth Avenue and South Dithridgc 
Street.
CMU is offering $5  8 million in resour
ces in an attempt to bring the SEI to Pitts
burgh. CMU leads a consortium including 
institutions in Arizona, California, New 
York and West Virginia. The selection 
authority will announce their choice on
/Ivania and the Regional Industrial October 12.
Congressman John P. Murtha (DPa.) 
said that the Western Pa. government would 
put every bit of political mustard we can 
behind this thing. Cyert is convinced that 
political reasons are the only reasons CMU 
could lose this project. Its hard to say this 
without boasting,but we are so tremend
ously ahead of these other groups, its like a 
high school team playing the Steelers. We 
are one of three top computing depart
ments, along with Stanford and MIT, and 
they didnt put in proposals.
WHmm WHmiuwimH LMeNkkl
A. Nico Habermann. professor and head 
of CMUs computer science department, has 
been chosen to head the SEI should it come 
to Pittsburgh.
Also speaking at the announcement were 
Representative William H. Coyne (DPa.) 
and Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguin.
Its time that Pittsbuigh spread its 
wings. We dont have to take a back seat to 
anyone. But we must work our way to the 
front. CMU has that capability, said
Caliguin.
iesler to take Provost position at Vanderbilt
PRISCILLA BRIGGS
Tip nan Staffwriter
HIV.Charles Kiesler will be leaving his 
sition as dean of the College of Humani|s and Social Sciences to assume the 
appointment to provost at Vanderbilt 
Miiversity.
|i^ provost, Dean Kiesler will be largely 
re; ponsible for day-to-day operations, 
sqond only to the Chancellor, who will 
rote more time to fund-raising. Dean
 sler, who admits he never resists a chalge," is very optimistic about Vanderbilt, 
^3 CMU President Richard M. Cyert
fA? this issue
Jiews:
Burson, Lilly hired..............................page 2
Iemployment increase...........page 5
leatures
w Club.............................................page 9
ormadon Desk...............................page 9
ter tain ment
^^rge Carlin ...............................page 11
unirli Awards............................page 11
orts
rtans win opener ....................page 15
football Preview....................page 17
tori al
Burnalism balance discussed . page 22
expects him to do very well.
Before coming to CMU, Dean Kiesler had 
filled several administrative positions and 
did not actually expect to be pulled into the 
administration at CMU. However, soon 
after his arrival, his abilities were recognized 
and put to good use. His contributions to 
the college have been significant and appre
ciated. President Cyert credits Dean Kiesler 
with helping to "build up the old social 
psychology area in Psychology and with 
strengthening the whole set of applications 
of computers to the humanities and social 
sciences.
As well as being an administrative figure 
at CMU, Dean Kiesler does research in men
tal health. He likes to strike a healthy bal
ance between administrative activity and 
research, and plans to continue both at 
Vanderbilt.
Although he is understandably looking 
forward to entering the Vanderbilt com
munity, he will leave many friends at CMU. 
His memories of the college are all positive 
as is his entire outlook concerning the uni
versity. According to Dean Kiesler, the 
H&SS department is problem free as a result 
of the shared goals and cooperation of the 
faculty. He describes the position he is leav
ing as being attractive to frustrated admin
istrators. Dean Kiesler expects his future 
replacement, who has not yet been deter
mined, to be able to function efficiently 
continued on page 8
a
HASS Don diarie A. Kiesler will leave tor Nashville, Teon January 15s 1965,
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 1, September 12, 1984.
- 5--------

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanSeptember 12, 1984
Carson, Lilly hired in Student Affairs office
Help us finish the comics page!
Do you want to be a cartoonist or 
an artist? Would you like to design 
ads? Typeset? Layout a page? Write? 
Take photographs? Do all of these or 
just one with The Tartan.
Whatever youre interested in,
theres always a place for you on The 
Tartan staff. Stop by at tonights 
meeting in room 12 at 7:00. Or, if 
you cant make it, call us at 578- 
2111.
Were looking forward to meeting 
you.
No experience necessary.
with those of their class in all the colleges at 
CMU.
Lilly will also be giving leadership work
shops to a number of organizations on cam
pus such as SDC and Student Senate.
Another program that Lilly would like to 
start is a type of morning wake up. This 
program would serve as a type of day start4 
ing ritual to any students interested. It 
would consist of some wake up exercises 
and some exercises designed to help one in 
dealing with unfamiliar people and 
experiences.
Lilly will also be working with Lambda 
Sigma, the sophomore honor society, and 
Mortar Board, the junior honor society.
Jay Carson, while working with the Greeks 
will be using an unusual method in his j 
capacity as advisor. Carson is very deter j 
mined that he will not dictate what the * 
Greek organizations will do. Instead, he will j 
funcdon as a middle man to the Greeks and f 
whomever they would like to deal with, for 
instance, CMU. Ill be driving, but theyll 
be telling me where to go, was Carsons 
way of explaining his position.
Carson will also help the fratemides 
getting involved with activides on 
pus.He would like to see the frats 
zations that comprise a community 
perform community endeavors, such as 
lantropic deeds and campus oriented acti 
vites. He feels that fraternities are a 
than John Belushi told us about and 
would like to show that. He would like 
present the frats as well-rounded groups.
Carson wants to make sure that the goo 
points of Greek life are emphasized by th 
Greeks and, consequendy, seen by a 
members of the CMU community.
Each of these men have worked with st 1 
dents before coming to CMU. Lilly has i 
continued on pegel^ 3 j
By MAURA A. SAVINI
Tartan Staffwriter
This year, the Department of Student 
Affairs has hired two new officials. They are 
Ed Lilly, Special Assistant to the Dean in 
charge of Special Projects,and Jay Carson, 
Greek Advisor.
Dean of Student Affairs Braden Walter is 
enthusiastic about having these two men at 
CMU. Walter feels that they will be able to 
bring many positive changes into the every
the class. There will be special events for 
each class, and, perhaps, a committee to 
organize each class into a functioning 
group.
Lilly explained that students will stick 
together as freshmen, but soon after become 
better acquainted with members of their own 
schools. They tend to forget many of those 
who will graduate with them. Lilly would like 
each student to be able to associate not only 
with students in their own college, but also
day lives of people here at CMU, especially 
the students.
Lillys tide seemingly explains nothing 
about exacdv what his actual duties will 
be, but he will indeed head some special 
projects.
Lilly likened CMU to a garden which he 
would take pleasure in exploring and help
ing to cultivate. One of the flowers he will 
sow is helping all the classes become organ
ized to groups including all the members of

---------------------------------------------------

f '  fSeptember 12, 1984The TartanPage 3
Senate report
Senate pushing voter registration drive
* Mime Dan Kamin
photo by Mike Pilewski 
at the Activities Fair
By BONNIE JACOBSEN
Tartan Staffurriter
Brad Walter, Dean of Student Affairs 
began the meeting with a discussion of the 
Senate Training Retreat. Ed Lilly, new 
appointee to the Student Affairs Board, 
explained the program as concentrating on 
what the Senate needs to become and where 
it needs to go. The members will leam lead
ership qualities and administrative abilities. 
The program is one of light interaction, 
between the senators, in small groups.
There is a great deal of enthusiasm 
among the senators concerning this pro
gram. They have high hopes for the Senate 
this year, and this is the first in a series of 
steps to improve the Senates involvement 
all around campus.
The Senate is still in the organizational 
stage and as a result they have seven board
vacancies. These spaces need to be filled, and 
the Senate is looking for candidates.
Also in the works is a plan to mobilize fall 
class leadership organizations. The seniors 
are fairly settled, but the juniors, sopho
mores, and freshmen need guidance. Ed 
Lilly will be working with these groups to 
get them into action soon.
The Senate also addressed the wet/dry 
rush issue. This basically says that rush will 
be dry some nights and wet on others. The 
wet evenings will consist only of beer and 
wine. The hope here is to concentrate more 
on rushs Greek merits than on the alcoholic 
attraction. The fraternities and sororities are 
encouraged to confine the wet events to 
the weekends. No Greeks will be permitted 
to advertise whether an event is wet or dry.
Student activities addressed include the
Student Phone-a-thon, Standard Rules 
Committee Meeting, Voter Registration and 
a number of new clubs. All these will have 
advertisements in The Tartan with details.
A finance Chair was nominated, and 
Michael Bett was elected. Other business 
included the retrospection of the Activities 
Fair. All agreed it was a great success.
Under new business, Stephen Volan sug
gested that Senate assistants be appointed 
for each Senator. Basically, they would be 
manpower only and would have no 
vote.The Senate decided this should be 
taken up later as an amendment to the Sena
torial constitution.
Overall, this was a chance for the Senate 
and its members to plan and anticipate the 
coming year. They have great expectations 
for this term.PA T transit lowers rates for outlying areas
fy MICHAEL J. PILEWSKI
urtan Photography Editor
Since August 26, the Port Authority of 
llegheny County has been doing things 
ifferently. For the first time in recent years, 
ites to outlying regions have been lowered 
Istead of raised. Suburban commuters to 
jwntown Pittsburgh and to CMU have 
loticed reductions in the cost of traveling 
itween PATs concentric fare zones.
For months the Port Authority, shortjnded from running overbudget on the 
ight Rail Transit system, has been anxfmsly searching for methods of raising new 
[venue. Indeed, a panic arose last month 
[hen PATs fiscal year ended and it
appeared certain that the state of Pennsylva
nia would not provide $13.5 million direly 
needed to prevent the collapse fo the transit 
system. Plans were underway to suddenly 
cut 33% of all bus service city-wide and lay 
off a phenomenal one out of every three 
PAT employees.
Fortunately, the funding arrived just 
hours ahead of the deadline, postponing dis
aster until the charters renewal in February. 
By that time PAT hopes to have raised 
enough revenue from its current campaigns 
to make consideration of such drastic mea
sures unnecessary.
Administrators within the transit author
ity concur that the current financial woes
TUTORSNEEDED
for walk in tutoring service.
High QPA required in tutoring subjectSubject Areas:
Calculus Chemistry 
Physics H&SS Math 
Biology Philosophic Methods 
M-Th, 7:00pm-10:00pm $3.50 per hour
contact Dr. Hickey at Counseling Center (x2922).
Calfo Family Hair Center
1915 Murray Ave.
Squirrel Hill
521-2250$2,00 off on any hair styleHours:Monday, Wednesday, Saturday Tuesday, Thursday, Friday Sunday 
96 '
98
114
Appointment preferred but not necessary.
arise from poor ridership in the suburbs. To 
make public transit attractive to residents of 
outlying communities, PAT has lowered 
the cost of traveling among its concentric 
fare zones.
Transfer tickets can now be a bargain as 
well. Formerly, travel along a route consist
ing of three individual trips required the 
payment of the $1.00 base fare, the purchase 
of a 25-cent transfer, and the expenditure of 
yet another dollar for the third trip. Now it is
possible to repurchase ones used transfer for 
25 cents. Up to four such transactions are 
allowed, permitting a total of five rides for 
$2.00
CMU student Tim Clougherty, a resident 
of the East Hills, was ecstatic about the 
change. Its great, he said. It used to cost 
me $2.25 each day just to come to school. 
Now it only costs $1.50.
For the dedicated rider, PAT offers 
another bonus. Monthly passes have been 
discounted to $35.00; a subscription to 12 
passes is only as expensive as ten. An infor
mal survey of university students in Oak
land showed a higher proportion willing to 
commute by bus as a result of the new prices. 
With the increased ridership it expects, the 
Port Authority will be able to provide its 
present degree of service through the official 
opening of the subway late this winter.
420 S. Craig St. 
683-2780
ICE CREAMERY
ces-pi
pACts *** aA nVcoPsV1
Me*de...Ho***
Paces has tofutti!
PACES
Vz iff wiupin 
1 single wine
Expires Oct. 1, 1984
PACES! PACES
l/2 iff wiupin 
1 pum in
I
l/z iff wiupin 
1 wuppuwwini |
Expires Oct. 1, 1984 Expires Oct. 1, 1984j
Also featuring: homemade cakes and pies, 
espresso, and cappuccino

---------------------------------------------------

Deadline is 5pm, Sept. 14Questions? call Judy Merrill 682-15531
*cv*v---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1984The TartanPage 5
Upward trend continues: CMU employment rises
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Job offers to CMU Liberal Arts graduates 
rose 89% over last year, and employment in 
the pure sciences was up 69%. Engineering 
graduates also saw a 37% increase in job 
offers.
Dennis Ryan, Director of Career Services 
and Placement at CMU attributes this 
nationwide rise in employment figures to 
the upturn in the economy.
Im hoping the upward trend continues. 
The worst year was for 1983 graduates. Since 
January, 1984, an increasing number of 
employers have been interviewing here. 
Ryan elaborated further, The general 
improvement in business conditions is 
reflected in the opportunity for employers to 
add college graduates 9to their interviewing 
lists0.
According to Ryan, the reasin for the 
increase in H&SS employment is the liberalprofessional orientation of the H&SS 
curriculum.
There is a growing recognition of the 
quality of 9the H&SS} curriculum. CMU 
combines Liberal Arts with the components 
of professionalism.
Social Science salaries averaged 
$23,648/year, the highest salary in the H&SS 
college. Ryan said this is greatly influenced 
by the Information Systems major, which is 
very popular with employers.
Applied Math graduates found job oppor
tunities ripe, as they averaged a $25,693/year 
starting salary. In Physics, Chemistry and 
Biology, most graduates went to graduate 
school, but Physics majors found good job 
opportunities, as the Electrical Engineering 
market carried over onto the Physics field.
There was a 30-40% increase in job oppor
tunities for Chemical Engineers in 1984, as 
compared to 1983. However, the oil, energy 
and metals industries are still suffering from 
the bad economy, and until those industries 
improve, Chemical Engineering job oppor
tunities are limited. One quarter of last 
years Chemical Engineering graduates are 
still unemployed, but for those with jobs, 
the average salary was $27,269, second only 
to the Electrical Engineering average salary. 
Ryan plans to continue the bid system 
method for arranging Chemical Engineer
ing interviews. This method works by giv
ing each senior Chemical Engineering 
major 1000 points each semester. The stu
dents then bid for interviews and points are 
taken off for what they bid if they get the 
interview. Ryan explains the need for this 
system because of the limited number of
employers in the Chemical Engineering 
market, and the great numbers of Chemical 
Engineering seniors. Less than half of the 
number of employers that came two years 
ago are interviewing for Chemical Engi
neers now, commented Ryan. Two years 
ago, the Chemical Engineering market was 
very large.
Almost all of the Electrical Engineering
1984 graduating class have found jobs, aver
aging a $27,456/year starting salary. Civil 
Engineers fared the lowest in CIT, earning 
an average salary of $24,826/year. Industrial 
Management majors averaged $20,011/year,  
and Architecture and Design majors aver
aged $15,569 and $17,244, respectively.
Company spots for interviews are booked 
until March. The first interviewers will be 
on campus October 3.
ZBT back on campus for '84-85 academic year
By AMY MILLER
Tartan StaffwrUer
ZBT regained full recognition as a frater
nity this semester.The university withdrew 
its acknowledgement last fall after serious 
incidents involving alcohol.
Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter com
mented, We think theyve made good pro
gress. The house is on probation and will
The house will now be able to participate 
in Greek activities such as booth, buggy, and 
Greek Sing. They also regained their vote in 
| the Interfratemity Council (IFC).
The chapter has not severed ties with its 
j rational organization, so its 25 pledges from 
| last year are now brothers. It was tough 
I because the brothers were all pretty bummed 
out ... it was a tough time to pledge, 
! remarked sophomore Craig Walsh, who 
pledged last fall.
Senior Chuck Stobbie commented, Our
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTERan out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
 Allegheny mmiens ?womens Center.
Me<Scai Center East Mdg. 
211 North Whitfield St 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
PHONE 412/3*2-2920
SAVE AT ELEK-TEK
MUbid sodn$10Uond 3
BA-2 
TIMBA
BA-55
S 33 
25 
43f
BA-55
TI-55-2 $33
TI-57 22
TI-LCD-PR0G 50
TI-66 52
EL 5100T 
EL 5500T 
CE 126P 
EL512T
CM UPres 
idnt R Mc UPr$80
119
PC 1500A 160
CE 150 165
HEWLETT-PACKARD
LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS
HP-11C Scientific 556
HP-15C Scientific 90
HP-12C Financial 90
HP-16C Programmer 90
HP-ll Module 
HP-IL Prime/Ptotter 
Acoustic Modem 
Dig Cassette Drive 
ThinkJet Printer 
0S/DD ha.y Onve
Hf-41CV
$141
H
T0U FREE ORDER LINE 800-671-1769 
EXCEPT Illinois, Alaska. Howaii
klMHMi hM  !><  *iw w art  (IBM KM Utk' I Nn (lwk߻ttM<k| CHHRISTO TPPETOO 
" H M M *11 4 t W S*n   Ui<ns M /S Mi torn *ti > itM* wtm D. <*) tc * > rt IM, p*rW Mam* mmm** U I Li III MiaOIAMftl IS MUM)in OMAiirr Tu cown
sophomores werent exposed to Greek Sing 
and booth last year so they really wont 
know what all these things are about. 
Although inactive in campus Greek 
events, the Zebes' have been keeping busy.
President Mike Banyas noted, We remo
deled our basement so that it would be done 
at the same time as booth.
Stobbie,who is social chairman, said, I 
think this is going to be the best rush weve
had, based on the enthusiasm of our broth
ers. Banyas also appeared optimistic. He 
observed, We have the most enthusiastic 
group in a while... everyones really glad to 
be back.
?! y\ 1*
Students! Work Smart.Work Simply...With Hewlett-Packard.
Take a good look at your class schedule.
If you're in Science or Engineering, chances 
are your classes include Calculus, Physics, or 
Chemistry. Engineering Statics, or Dynamics. 
You're running up against some tough calcula
tions, with statistics problems, hyperbolics, and 
logs. The HP-11C calculator helps you breeze 
through those problems with a few simple 
keystrokes.
Need to simplify problems that are even more 
complex? The HP-41CV gives you 128 built-in 
functionsand the HP-41CX over 200to sim
plify your long homework assignments. Use up to 
6,437 bytes of memory to save the programs 
and formulas you use often. And there are thou
sands of software programs, so you don't have 
to start from scratch next term.
If you're in Business or Finance, you're proba
bly taking Accounting, Statistical Methods, 
Finance, and Investment Analysis. Classes 
loaded with tedious calculations. End the penciland-paper drudgery with the HP-12C. The most 
powerful decision-maker on the market! Dedi
cated keys make time value of money 
calculations, amortization, Net Present Value 
(NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and statis
tics solutions as simple as a single keystroke. And 
it's easy to change values or correct mistakes 
without reentering your entire problem.
Hewlett-Packard calculators. They help you 
work smart this term. And next term. And even 
later on the job. Get your HP today from your 
local HP dealer.
For the location of the dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 1-800-FOR-HPPC.
HEWLETT 
PACKARD3902401 658A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 12, 1984
LEARN EFFECTIVE 
STUDY SKILLS
4 weekly classes begin Sept. 25th
Register at Counseling Center, 
Morewood Gardens, ETower, 
Room 103, or call 578-2922.
Sponsored by: Counseling & Student Devel
opment Center, a division of Student Affairs
GSIA workshop deals with media challenges
By LESLIE FRANK
Tartan Staffwriter
CMUs Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration (GSIA) is conducting a twoand-one-half day workshop entided Fac
ing the Media Challenge that will be open 
to the public at a charge of $850. This 
seminar will take place November 13-15. 
Four faculty members and one radio and 
television reporter yet to be announced will 
be utilizing the audio-visual center in Hunt 
Library to help the participants improve 
their performances under pressure from hos
tile reporters. Executives will gain insight 
into giving positive interviews and protect
ing their interests without becoming 
defensive.
The issues dealt with will be based on 
factual situations the participants face as 
part of their occupations, such as a manager 
of a manufacturing plant having to explain 
high level of pollutant emission or a labor 
walk-out.
The workshop was originally developed 
for CMU faculty by Leda Hanin, the GSIA 
Director of Public and Alumni Relations.
This is the second year the program has 
been offered as a service to the faculty and 
staff under the auspices of the Public Rela
tions Department. It is available at the com
paratively low price of $100 and is a 
condensed version of that open to the pub
lic, meeting for two half-day sessions on 
September 14 and 15, and again on January
11 and 12.
The faculty members who will be helping 
participants of both programs to meet the 
media challenge are Director Leda Hanin, 
Delorese Ambrose, Assistant Dean of SUPA;
John Handley, Associate Dean of Executive
Education at GSIA; and James Stratman, 
Adjunct Professor of Industrial Administra
tion. Many subjects will be covered, from the
use of media terms such as no comment 
and off-the-record to details of posture, 
voice, and dress. The video tapes erf inter
views done throughout the workshop will 
be kept on file for participants to view any 
time they want to be reminded of their origi
nal weaknesses and their progress during 
their two-and-a-half days at CMU.
Freshman Camp attendence tripled this year as the Camp Luthesfyn volleyball court was 
filled to capacity.
Senator Eric Rocher leads voter 
registration efforts at CMU
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Have CMU students lost track of time? 
Americans between ages 18-24 make up 
fourteen percent of the voting population, 
yet only 20% of students eligible to vote have 
registered for the November sixth election. 
Alarmed, the CMU senate has joined with 
national organizations to help increase stupartidpation by 40% in the 1984 
The CMU Voter Registration 
Drive provides a way for students to register 
quickly, easily, and conveniendy on the 
Campus. You must register in order 
to vote.
The CMU Voter Registration Drive is origanized from two areas. Eric Rocher, MCS 
Senator and Chair of the CMU Rules Com
mittee, represented CMU at a recent Voter 
Registration workshop at Slippery Rock 
University. The National Student Cam
paign on Voter Registration (NSCVR), 
the Commonwealth Association of Stu
dents (CAS), both non-partisan, non-profit 
groups, and Frondash, affiliated with the 
AFLCIO, presented programs offering 
directions on how to fill out forms, good 
places for registration booths, and ways to 
structure drives to the size and political 
enthusiasm of each school. Anne Witchner, 
Director of Student Activities, is currently 
trying to contact the League of Women 
voters for their registration assistance.
Eligible students may register at the Skibo 
Information Desk or Room 59 Skibo until 
Oct. 9. You must fill out a form if your current 
address has changed since you last regis
tered, you have not voted for two or more 
years, or if you wish to request an absentee 
ballot.
1984 is really the year when students are 
going to go out and make a difference in 
United States Politics, says Chris Majok, a 
partipant in the drive. CMU students can 
help make a difference by supporting the 
drive and voting on November 6.
one hour developing
You Get Speed, Convenience, 
Kodak Paper,
Our White Glove Touch
Plus 10% OFF Color Prints
(Discount Good Thru August 1$, 1984) 
1824 MURRAY AVfNUE 
421-1444
Head Instructor 
Robert Opalsky 
Special Guest Instructor 
Curtis Smith
Meets at Thistle Hall 
CMU Gymnasium 
Monday  8:30-10:00 p.m. 
Wednesday  7:30-9:00 p.m. 
Beginners are welcome

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1984The TartanPage 7
By CATHI BREZA
Tartan Staffwriter
The new card catalog terminals can be 
found on the first and fourth floors of the 
Hunt library and also in the Engineering 
and Science Library. Printers are also 
available at these locations. According to 
Peggy Seiden, reference Librarian at 
Hunt Library, the system is in the process 
of being expanded campus wide.
At present, books are only listed on the 
computerized system. However, in the 
future, periodicals, technical reports, 
music, records, and scores will be entered. 
The new card catalog is much more con
venient and flexible than the old card 
catalog. The search for information can 
be done by using the authors name, title 
of the book, corporate author name, or by 
keyword. The keyword provides the flexi
bility the old card catalog lacks by allow
ing the researcher to use his own 
terminology in the search for informa
tion. Key words also allow the researcher 
to cross subjects which is impossible to 
do with cards in the old catalog. Availa
ble on the system is a comments function 
which lets the user ask questions or post 
comments about the system. All ques
tions will either be posted or answered 
directly to the user by user ID or address.
Since the system is new to Hunt 
Library and the E&S Library, seminars 
| are being offered twice a week at both 
i locations to teach better search strategies 
| within the system. For more information 
you can call the reference department at 
either of the libraries or pick up bro[chures also available there. Although the 
jold card catalog still exists, the new ontime catalog is more efficient and easier to 
luse.
LS/2000 Training Sessions
Want to leam how to use the LS/2000 
efficiendy? Come to one of the 45-minute 
Introduction to LS/2000 classes the Librar
ies are offering this Fall. All of these sessions 
are identical and will teach you the basics of 
LS/2000 searching. Class size is limited, so 
we urge you to pre-register for the session 
you choose.
To register, call Hunt (x2442) or E&S 
(x2427) the day before you want to attend. 
Or stop by the Reference Desk at either 
library. Hunt classes are held in the seminar 
room on the second floor.
photo by Colin Rafferty
Session Schedule
Hunt Library
WednesdaySept. 53:30
ThursdaySept. 1310:30
WednesdaySept. 192:30
ThursdaySept. 2710:30
WednesdayOct. 33:30
ThursdayNov. 110:30
WednesdayNov. 282:30
ThursdayDec. 610:30
Fridays@3:30
E&SSept. 63:30
WednesdaySept. 123:30
ThursdaySept. 202:30
WednesdaySept. 262:30
WednesdayOct. 173:30
ThursdayNov. 152:30
ThursdayNov. 292:30
WednesdayDec. 53:30
Fridays@3:30
A card catalog terminal seems baffling to this CMU student
President's Distinguished Lecture 
Series Presents ,
Herbert A. Simon 
University Professor, 
CMU
The Impact of computers 
on Society
Tuesday, September 18 
4:30 pm Skibo Ballroom 
pen to the public. Admission is free
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS FROM CMU 
REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
'THE FAIRFAX" ... 4614 5th Ave.! 
WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Mermbers, Graduate Students & CMU Guests 
to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & 
STUDIO APARTMENTS that could become 
available for May, June, July and August 
occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days per 
week. PLEASE call H. M. HARRI7Y for YOUR 
appointment; anytime. DIAL 621-4030. We'll 
see YOU at 'THE FAIRFAX" . . . Neighbor.
Card Catalog now computerized in Hunt and E&S

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8'The TartanSeptember 12, 1984
WRCT gets
Class-A 100
watt permit
 /
By DARIN WACS
Tartan Staffwriter
In the summer of 1983, WRCT 
obtained a construction permit, enabling 
them to make improvements. By the 
Christmas of 1983 all new construcion 
had been completed and they received 
permission to test at one-hundred watt 
capacity in the spring of 84. 
turned up the power to one-hundred 
watts during the opening of Midway at 
Srping Carnival of 84. Once again 
was only under permission to test.
The final document WRCT had to 
obtain was a grant from the Federal Com
munications Commission(FCC). The 
FCC decision was based on several condiderations, such as the programming. 
WRCT had to play a unique yet diverse 
selection of music and at the same time 
provide, public service announcements. 
The final word was received August 8, 
1984 a post card received from the FCC 
granted WRCT their license since the 
power increased, according to WRCT 
General Manager Bdale Garbee, Recep
tion has improved greatly and the dis
tance you can pick us up has more then 
doubled and almost tripled. We hope 
with the improvement in the stations 
power output we will be better able to 
serve the campus and the community.
Dean Kiesler 
headed to 
Vanderbilt
continued from page 1
from the start due to the futuristic quality of 
the college. As he put it, there is no old 
news to take care of.
Dean Kieslers change of position was no 
surprise to President Cyert, who has been 
recommending and nominating Dean 
Kiesler few new positions for some time.
It is Dean Kieslers desire to eventually 
become president of a college. However, he 
was not considered for his newly acquired 
positon in the usual manner. He said he was 
not even informed that Vanderbilt was con
sidering him as a prospect until they had 
narrowed their selection down to five possiblitites. In fact, he did not even apply for the 
position or show and interest in it at all.
The search for a new dean of H&SS will 
be nationwide, involving a search commit
tee of faculty, students, and administration. 
The job will be advertised and nominations 
will be invited. President Cyert was very 
emphatic in stressing that the job is an equal 
opportunity positon and that there will be 
a committee that will in itself look at 
women and minority candidates.
'Tetko, John Gabriel Fetkovich III, can now
Carson, Lilly 
hired for 
new posts
continued from page 2
drama; Carsons background is in administration and budgeting.
Carson will also be working on leader
ship workshops.
Both Lilly and Carson want to stress that 
a well-balanced routine with activities other 
than schoolwork is imperative to a success
ful college life. Lilly, especially, would like 
see that not one person at CMU ever feels 
useless.To him, a feeling of importance, 
if it is only to one other person, is 
necessary for survival at a place like CMU.
Walters is happy that Carson and Lilly 
will be working in Student Affairs. He 
that now, better than ever before, 
each and every student will have an outlet 
for their energies or someone to help deal 
ith their sometimes frustrating
Unfortunately, neither Carson nor Lilly 
an office right now. At the present time 
they may be found or contacted in Student 
Affairs. Until they take up personal CMU 
residences, anyone interested in speaking 
with either one about one of their programs *' 
or some other programs may do so through 
Student affairs.
introducing...the Japanese P vl t Utv (foo-tahn)
A uniquely 
versatile 
mattress 
i... by day
itt ^Featuring layer upon layer of 100% *
Fancy Blend cotton batting encased in
heavy mattress ticking. Available in Mgb
8 sizes...crib to king...and in two MSBn ay 1 " 
styles...the Standard & the Cloud... 
with accompanying custom
.. .
coordinated covers a nd M
w *
exwlusively umTHE LINEN CLOSET
II ...by night
SHADYSIDECorner of Walnut Street and Maryland Avenue  412/362-8045
vMot>ruNCdl x3fll snJ

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
CMU Robotics Club to form as new student organization
By JENNIFER ADAMS
Special to The Tartan
The CMU Robotics Club is coming into 
existence as a new student organization. The 
clubs founders, Jeff Miller, Bill Nee, Todd 
Steyer and Mitchell London, say that they 
expect a large interest in the organization 
across the university. Our group plans to 
present a series of talks from members of the 
Robotics Institute, our own membership, 
and representatives of industry. These talks 
will deal with their work and what they 
perceive as the course of robotics, says Lon
don. Ultimately the club will undertake its 
own robotics projects.
There will be litde difficulty finding stu
dents interested in participating in the 
organization, or at the very least attending 
some of the talks states Nee, who, along 
with the other founders, has been speaking 
to students interested in participating. A
individual participation; a larger group 
could present problems to a fledgling organ
ization with limited resources. It is impor
tant that members be willing to devote their 
time and not feel left out. We dont want 
potentially valuable members to become 
disinterested says London. Steyer adds, 
We would like to expand to multiple pro
jects. Hopefully, we will be able to accomo
date an expanding club over the next 
semester. Members of the Senate Rules 
Committee see no problem with the clubs 
bid for recognition.
Professor William (Red) Whittaker of the 
Civil Engineering and Contruction Robot
ics Laboratory will advise the club. Whittak
ers recent projects include the remote 
reconnaissance robots deployed in the clean
up at Three Mile Island and magnetic 
vision to image-buried objects. He believes 
that undergraduate participation in engiexperience, and says that he would like to 
see a very productive club.
Some students have questioned the neces
sity of forming a robotics club. They ask, 
Why not simply integrate it into the com
puter club?. Club founders regard compu
ters as tools in design and components for a 
robotic system. A robot, on the other hand, is 
not a component in a computer system. The 
design of even the simplest robotic system 
involves not only computer programming, 
but mechanical and circuit design as well. 
The members also point out that they 
would like to interest non-technical students 
who simply would like to keep abreast of 
changes in the field of robotics and what is 
going on around CMU. We believe that we 
will be performing a valuable campus ser
vice, intellectually as well as academically, 
by presenting a lecture series along with 
ongoing projects.
who has worked in the Robotics Institute 
since the beginning of his freshman year, 
sees another useful aspect of such a club. Its 
members, in order to accomodate the clubs 
needs, will directly enhance the academic 
environment. Our school has needed an 
undergraduate facility for independent lab 
work for a long time. A club like ours could 
convince administrators that such a facility 
is necessary. For the present, however, club 
concerns will deal with the more pressing 
problem of finding the office space neces
sary to store equipment and allow members 
to execute projects.
The first meeting will be held at 8:30 p.m. 
on Thursday, September 13 in Wean Hall 
5403. At that time, interested students will 
become members, elect the club officers, and 
formally ratify a constitution. For further 
information contact; London x3935, Miller 
x3837, Nee x3891, or Steyer x4452.
small dedicated group nurtures significant neering projects is a valuable educational Miller, a mechanical engineering seniorInformation Age brings rapid and radical changes with onset; issues, areas affected include computers, labor, employment
By ANDREA SHIAH
Special to The Tartan 
The onset of the Information Age has 
brought rapid and radical changes to the 
way we do business, communicate, learn, 
and live. The ability to adapt to these 
changes means that society, organizations, 
and individuals must understand the 
impact of the Information Age. Issues and 
areas affected include new computer technologies and their applications, labor and 
employment issues related to automation 
and robotics, data and computer security 
problems, management of information in 
the office, and legal issues concerning the 
protection of technology.
The implications and effects of the Infor
mation Age prompted AIESEC (a French 
acronym for International Association of 
Students in Economics and Business Man
agement) to adopt the theme, Meeting the 
Challenges of the Information Age as its 
international theme from 1982 to 1984. After 
discussion that began in the fall of 1982, the 
AIESEC chapter at Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity (AIESEC-CMU) decided to host and 
organize the Information Technology 
Conference.
To add credibility to the conference, an
Honorary Conference Committee was 
formed. Members of the committee were Dr. 
Richard M. Cyert, President of CamegieMellon University, William A. Coates, 
Executive Vice President at Westinghouse 
International, Billy C. Christensen, Vice 
President and General Manager at IBM 
World Trade and member of AIESECUnited States Board erf Directors, H.J. Heinz
II, Chairman of H.J. Heinz Company, and 
David M. Roderick, Chairman of U.S. Steel.
Fundraising for the Information Tech
nology Conference began in the summer of 
1983. Supporters associated with AIESEC in 
the past were joined by new supporting 
companies and foundations. A total of 
$29,000 was contributed through fundrais
ing efforts that exceeded expectations. This 
reflected the strong support from the infor
mation/computer industry and the Pittsburgh business community.
The quality of any conference depends on 
the speakers. When invitations were first 
sent out in the summer of 1983, it was not 
expected that so many distinguished and 
knowledgeable experts and industry leaders 
erf the information technology field would 
be brought together. The keynote speakers 
were Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, Presi
dent of the World Center for Personal Com
putation and Human Resources in Paris 
and author of American Challenge and 
continued on page 10
Grads go Japanese
Two students selected to participate in graduate research fellowship in Japan
Alvin Toffler, author of Future Shock, 
speaking about his book Third Wave and
ch. * IT C.
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
firsthand and absorb some of the big compo
nents erf their success, said Gaya, who has 
B.S. degrees in both electrical and computer
Jeffrey L.
engineering from the University of Michi
gan. He plans to start a personal computer 
software company after completing his M.S.
in computer engineering at CamegieMellon.
The AEA fellowship offers an excellent 
opportunity to understand and solve real 
world manufacturing problems and to learn 
from one of the worlds most successful 
manufacturing countries. said Funk, who 
has a B.S. degree in physics from California 
Polytechnic State University and will soon 
complete a Ph.D. in engineering and public 
policy at Camegie-Mellon.
The pilot fellowship program resulted 
from efforts by AEA and the Japanese elec
tronics and telecommunictions industries to 
form closer ties between American and Japa
nese high-technology firms. The program 
seeks to improve U.S. understanding of the 
Japanese electronics industries by exposing 
more American students to Japans culture, 
language and values, and by placing them 
in actual work situations.
Two graduate students from CamegieMellon University, Bruce Gaya and Jeffrey 
L. Funk, have been selected to participate in 
a new American Electronics Association 
(AEA) graduate research fellowship pro
gram in Japan. Gaya and Funk are two of 
six students selected for the program.
The fellowships were awarded to gradu
ate students in electrical/computer engi
neering, computer science, or related fields 
at major U.S. universities. The six students 
are currendy enrolled in an intensive, nineweek Japanese language program at Cor
nell University. They will leave for Japan 
this fall to spend three to nine months in 
research work at host Japanese electronics 
firms.
By working in Japan, I will be able to 
witness Japanese management techniques
Steve Henderson, of MIT, speaking on 
iganizational and implementation issues 
* information systems.
There is /re/pInfo Desk - a place to visit
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
There is a place on campus where eve
ryone visits during their stay at CMU. No, it 
isn't a terminal room or even a fraternity 
porch. I'm talking about the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
The desk has become the center of knowl
edge for students. It offers a wide variety of 
resources and information in order to tackle
most problems. Stocked with assorted maps, 
calenders, and campus notices, the desk 
attracts confused, or the just curious, 
individuals.
In addition to answering questions, the 
desk has many responsibilities. It sells Port 
Authority bus passes and tickets for both 
campus and off-campus events. It gives out 
game equipment and is the key distributor 
continued on page  ..

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanSeptember 12, 1984
Students willing to help 
Info Desk has answers
help, there are three evening supervisors and 
one permanent part-time employee. Linda 
Buzeczko has added a new sense of profes
sionalism and consistency to the desk since 
she is present from 9:50a.m. til 2:30p.m. The 
desk is open from 8:30a.m. to midnight, 
Monday through Thursday. The weekend 
hours are: Friday 8:30a.m.-1:00a.m.; Satur
day 9:00a.m.-1:00a.m.; Sunday 9:00a.m.- 
12:00a.m.
So, if you need information, visit or call 
(x2107) the Skibo Desk. Whether it is direc
tions, the time, or procedural questions, the 
people at the desk will either know or find 
out the answer. The Information Desk is 
there to help.
continued from page 9
for Skibo rooms so that campus organiza
tions can meet
The daily newsboards which are located 
in the Tartan Grill and Grey Matter are 
monitored by the desk as are rock videos. 
Outgoing mail (letters only) can be dropped 
off there though the desk is not a place to 
store things. Finally, student organizations 
(including the Greeks) receive their mail 
through that incredible location, the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Anne Witchner, director of the Office of 
Student Activities, runs the desk. In addition 
to the twelve enthusiastic work/study stu
dents who are always ready and willing to
photo by Mike Pilewski
Skibo Information Desk
ITC draws expert speakers
Transfer, William G. McGowan, Chairman 
8c CEO of MCI Communications, and Har
vey L. Poppel, Senior Vice President at Booz 
Allen 8c Hamilton, Inc.
Overall, there is no doubt that the Infor
mation Technology Conference was a suc
cess. The audience was exposed to many 
things, ranging from new concepts of man
aging information to social issues that deal 
with technology and information.
continued from page 9
World Challenge, Dr. Amo A. Penzias, Vice 
President of Research at AT8cT Bell Labora
tories, Roberto R. Romulo, President and 
General Manager of IBM in the Philip
pines, Alvin Toffer, author of Future Shock 
and Third Wave, Giuliano Raviola, Presi
dent of Olivettis Advance Technology Cen
ter, Dr. Francis B. Kapper, Assistant Deputy 
Under Secretary erf Defense for Technology
Mie peiple 
huve suvived 
wunwe mhun 
niw live in 
mhe Cimy if 
Lis Angeles.
Le ue winning.
A Contest With The Best Musical 
Entertainers InVThe Area Competing 
or Thousands Of Dollars Worth Of 
Recording, Video,& Promotional Prizes
Every Thursday Ev\ning At 9=00 PM 
Starting Sept. 6th 1984,Thru Nov. 8th, 
With Finals Novri5th.l6th,&l7th,l984
P WHcRE IS IT ?
On The Mam Stage At The All New 
CLUB GRAFFITI, 4615 Baum Blvd., In 
Oakland, Just Off North Craig Street
This space contributed as a public service.WHAT IS IT ?
Sponsered By-HARTWOOD scutyd productions
8022 Penn Ct South PghJa.15206
WHEN IS IT ?
HOW CAN I WIN ?HOW CAN I GET INTO THE COMPETITION?
Easy. Arrange Ar. Audition At,Or Bring A Tape To, DIVERSION CRE ATIONS 
Recording Studio,6022 Penn Circle South 
(East Liberty),4l2*361*4545, For An 
Appointment Contest Rules
Thats easy too!.Because The Audience A 
Will Choose The WINNERS. By Ballot, 
lust Bring All Your Fans, Friends and 
Relatives, And Have Some Fun! 
EVERYONE!!! Will Be There.
,-i ! I I.M.J Ic -V\\lY  \ Ht**.  U * J -ft*- A i fc > I ** |\1 ,*'*

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
brings his unique sense of humor to the Syria Mosque Saturday at 7:30.
|River City Brass Band to ipe/7 new season Saturday
River City Brass Band raises the curtain 
>n its fourth season with Curtain Up! a 
concert of music from stage, screen, televifon, and radio, Saturday, September 15 at 8 
.in. in Carnegie Music Hall.
Featured in the program of Curtain 
p!" are favorties from Broadwayand Holywood as well as guest artists Brockett and 
irbara, zany favorites from Pittsburgh. 
I he internationally-known comedy team 
|known more locally as Don Brockett and 
Jarbara Russell) will let loose with their 
|>wn refreshing fanfare of spoofs, satires and 
lap improvisations done in the wacky style 
|v'hich has brought them laughter and love 
numerous nightclubs and theaters. 
Familiar favorites will be the standard in 
RCBB season opener, which will 
Klude Broadway tunes Seventy-Six 
rombones, Summertime from Porgy 
| nd Bess (with soprano trumpet solosist Berard Black), and selections from Carousel.
Memory will layer upon memory as film 
themes from High Noon, Love Story, the 
Sting and Star Wars are followed by small 
screen nostalgia in A Mistier Rogers Med
ley," the Guadalcanal March from Vic
tory at Sea and music from PBS 
Masterpiece Theater. Even radio will make 
a comeback in the Lone Ranger theme (Rossinis William Tell Overture).
A featured piece will be Fantasy for Brass 
Band by Bristish film composer Malcolm 
Arnold, popularly known for The Bridge 
Over the River Kwai.
Curtain Up! will be presented Sept. 15 
at 8 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland, 
with ticket prices at $12, $8, $7, and $5 ($3 for 
children).
Reservations for the concert can be made 
by calling 322-RCBB from 9:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m. weekdays. Some sections are already 
sold out.
Awards
CMU alumni receive ten Emmy 
Nominations, one BMI award
Ten Camegie-Mellon University Drama 
Department alumni have received 12 Emmy 
nominations from the Academy of Televi
sion Arts and Sciences.
Steven Bochco, executive producer of 
Hill Street Blues," received nominations 
for outstanding drama series and outstand
ing writing in a drama Series for Grace 
Under Pressurr^ and Dbris in Wonder 
land, both segments from Hill Street 
Blues.
Ted Danson, who plays Sam Malone on
Cheers, received a nomination for out
standing lead actor in a comedy series. Dan
son was also nominated for outstanding 
lead actor in a limited series or a special for 
his role in Something About Amelia.
Other CMU alumni honored with Emmy 
nominations are: Rene Auberjonis, out
standing supporting actor in a comedy ser
ies, for Clayton Endicott III on "Benson; 
Barbara Bosson, outstanding supporting 
actress in a drama series, for Fay Furillo on 
Hill Street Blues; Mark Frost , outstand
ing writing in a drama series, for the teleplay 
Grace Under Pressure for Hill Street 
Blues; Romain Johnston, outstanding art 
direction for a variety L.W music program, for 
Lynda Carter Body and Soul; John Ford 
Noonan, outstanding writing in a drama
St. Elsewhere; Bruce Weitz, outstanding 
supporting actor in a drama series, for Mick 
Belker on Hill Street Blues; and Ken and 
Mitzie Welch, outstanding achievement in 
music and lyrics, for Burnett Discovers 
Domingo."
Some 313 Emmy nominations were 
announced. Craft category' winners will be 
honored at a banquet Sept. 16 at Century 
Plaza Hotel. The other winners will be pres
ented Emmys during the Primetime Emmy 
Awards Presentation telecast Sept. 23. Gary 
Smith, another CMU alumnus, and Dwight 
Hemion are executive producers of the 
Emmy awards telecast for the fourth consec
utive year.
 -Ronald Lubetsky, who graduated summa 
cum laude in music composition from 
Camegie-Mellon University in 1980, has 
won a BMI (Broadcast Music, Inc.) Award to 
Student Composers. One of 22 winners in 
the 1983-84 competition, Lubetskys win
ning competition was Illuminations for 
soprano, flute, clarinet, percussion, piano, 
violin and violoncello.
The BMI Awards to Student Composers 
competition was established in 1951 by 
BMI, in cooperation with music educators 
and composers, to encourage the creation of
Class down Carlin to 
appear in Pittsburgh
111 By ADAM HAN IN
| v\ Tartan Entertainment Editor
Pittsburgh's favorite class clown is return
ing. George Carlin, hot on the tail of his 
recent HBO special, will be appearing at the
Syria Mosque this Saturday.
Carlin is best known for his characteriza
tions and controversial routines. One such 
routine, Seven Words You Can Never Say 
On Television, has gotten Carlin arrested, 
as well as being taken to the Supreme Court, 
something Carlin described as like being 
sent down to the big principals office in 
Washington.
With career roots in his Catholic gram
mar school days, Carlin used comedy as a 
tool to get approval from classmates. Build
ing on this gift, Carlin moved into radio 
broadcasting, and finally into stand-up 
comedy.
Following a slew of telev ision appearan
ce's, Carlin found himself with a three year 
contract at the Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas. 
During one of these shows, Carlin became 
fed-up with some conventioneers who 
didnt like his routine. Following an 
exchange of comments, Carlin was fired.
It was this incident which turned Carlins 
act around. He began performing for col
lege audiences, and tried to put as much of 
himself in his act as possible. At the same 
time, Carlins recording career began. Now, 
nearly 13 years after his first release, Carlin 
has 8 albums under his belt, including 4 
gold albums.
Saturdays show promises to be very enter
taining. Opening the show will be Leon 
Redbone who last appeared in Pittsburgh as 
the headliner in the annual ABConcertsPitt 
Program Council Flagstaff Hill Concert.
This Is Spinal Tap a big hit
af Pittsburgh Playhouse
l*y LESLEY BRUNKER| nr tan Asst. Entertainment Editor
Friday night, rockumentary This Is Spi
ral Tap played two sold out shows at the 
review Pittsburgh Playhouse. Directed 
adult ky ar,d featuring comedy veteran
 - - - Rob Reiner, the film describes 
56oo the past and present struggles of
le imaginary heavy metal band, Spinalap.
Though it enjoyed only limited release 
lls past spring and summer, Spinal Tap 
^as critically well-acclaimed. It focuses on 
terisions that grow within the group and 
Particular between the lead vocalist 
istopher Guest) and lead guitarist 
Michael McKean) as Spinal Tap tours in 
JPport of their latest album, Smell The
Glove.
It is a painfully realistic portrait of the 
rock world. In between the cbmic interviews 
and scenes, there are unattended promo
tional appearances and concerts, fights with 
the management, and unsympathetic pres$ 
reviews.
While the movie is about a rock band, it is 
not about rock music. The only redeeming 
qualities of the songs, including Big Bot
tom and Animal Sex Farm, are the amus
ing lyrics. It is a superb depiction of a group 
of men trying to hold together the only lifes
tyle they know, as it threatens to fall out 
from under them.
This Is Spinal Tap Will be on campus on 
Saturday, November 3 in Doherty Hall 2210 
at 6, 8, 10 and 12.
Entertainer David Bromberg appeared Sunday on Flagstaff Hill before a highly apprecia
tive audience.

---------------------------------------------------

uirct 88.3 fm 
mo/sive mu/ic weekend
starting at 3pm Friday /eptember 14 
and running until 3am monday
Friday/unday
noon1230pm100pm130pm200pm230pm300pm330pm400pm430pm500pm530pm600pm630pm700pm730pm800pm830pm900pm930pm1000pm1030pm1100pm1130pm
midnight 12:30 am 1:00 am 1:30 am 2:00 am 2:30 a 3:00 aa 3:30 am 4:00 aa 4:30 aa 5:00 aa 5:30 aa 6:00 aa 6:30 aa 7:00 aa 7:30 aa 8:00 aa 8:30 aa 9:00 aa 9:30 aa 10:00 aa 10:30 aa 11:00 aa 11:30 aa
12:30 pa 1:00 pa 1:30 pa 4:30 pa 5:00 pa 5:30 pa 6:00 pa 6:30 pa 7:00 pa 7:30 pa 8:00 pa 8:30 pa 9:00 pa 9:30 pa 10:00 pa 10:30 pa 11:00 pa 11:30 pa
The English Beat Jean-Luc Ponty Peter Gabriel/GenesisN
Temptations Pink Floyd Elvis Costello Kate Bush XYellodames Blood UlmerChick Corea/Return to ForeverPere Ubu/David ThomasRoxy Music/Phil Manzanera/Brian FerryChromeCaptain BeefheartN.Y. Dolls/David Johansen/Johnny Thunders Jeff Beck/Yardbirds Echo & the Bunnymen Sun RaCarlos Santana Joy Division Joe Jackson Brian Eno
/aturday
XTCFred Frith/Massacre/Art Bears/Henry CowOrnette ColemanThe FallAnthony BraxtonTelevision/Tom Verlaineiggy Pop Squeeze Tom HaltsClapton/Creaa/Bl1nd Faith/Derek & DominosJohn ColtraneGrateful DeadJames White/Contort ionsOMDJohn CageN
Dave Brubeck/Paul DesmondVan Morrison/ThemJohn McCutcheonHuman League/Heaven 17CarsicknessThe ResidentsTrafficJames BrownPat MethenyJohn LemonUB40CMU Tartan Football Chuck Berry The JamPittsburgh Local MusicN
Public Image Ltd.Laurie Anderson The CureVelvet Underground/Lou ReedN
Talking Heads/David Byrne/Tom Tom Club/Jerry HarrisonM
Ki11ing Joke Black Flag Snakef1ngerNick Lowe/Dave Edmunds/Rockpi1e
midnight 12:30 am 1:00 am 1:30 am 2:00 am 2:30 am 3:00 am 3:30 am 4:00 am 4:30 am 5:00 am 5:30 am 6:00 am 6:30 am 7:00 am 7:30 am 8:00 am 8:30 am 9:00 am 9:30 am 10:00 am 10:30 am 11:00 am 11:30 am noon 12:30 pm 1:00 pm 1:30 pm 2:00 pm 2:30 pm 3:00 pm 3:30 pm 4:00 pm 4:30 pm 5:00 pm 5:30 pm 6:00 pm 6:30 pm 7:00 pm 7:30 pm 8:00 pm 8:30 pm 9:00 pm 9:30 pm 10:00 pm 10:30 pm 11:00 pm 11:30 pm midnight
12:30 am 1:00 am 1:30 am 2:00 am 2:30 am
Sex Pistols Miles DavisII
Cabaret Voltaire Grandmaster Flash/Melle Mel R.E.M.John McLaughlin/Mahavishnu OrchestraCircle JerksUltravoxBuzzcocks/Pete Shelley B.B. King Dixie Dregs Charles Mingus Manhattan Transfer Stiff Little Fingers Patti Smith Manheim Steamroller The Birthday Party Windham Hill Label ArtistsI
DevoSi 1ly Wizard Dead Kennedys Ramones The ClashFunkadel1c/Par1i ament/George Clinton Violent Femmes U2Delbert McCIintonFrank Zappa and the Mothers of InventionN
Smokey Robinson & the Miracles Gil Scott-Heron Psychedelic Furs Muddy Waters T. RexPhilip Glass Duke El 1ington Bob DylanSlouxsle & the Banshees BauhausCreedence Clearwater RevivalNew OrderThe Gun ClubMaterial/6111 LaswellKing Crimson/Robert Fripp/Adrian Belew
N
Throbbing Gristle/Psychic TV/Chris & Cosey
monday
Thelonious Monk Bonzo Dog Doodah Band The Cramps Gang of Four David Bowie
WRCT is funded by CMU's Student Activities Fee. WRCT, 5020 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1984The TartanPage 13
Alumni Awards
continued from page 11
concert music by student composers (under 
the age of 26 as of December 31 st of the year 
preceding the awards deadline) of the WestI ern Hemisphere and to aid in their musical 
? education. Cash prizes totalling $15,000 and 
I ranging from $500 to $2,500 are awarded at 
| the discretion of the judges. The judging 
I panel, made up of notable concert music 
1 composers, has the right to determine the 
amount of each award to be given and the 
number of awards to be made.
This years prizes were presented at a 
reception at New Yorks St Regis-Sheraton 
Hotel on May 10, 1984. These awards bring 
 to 297 the number of talented people who 
I have been honored by BMI over the past 
1 years.
Broadcast Music, Inc. is the largest music 
j licensing organization in the world, represk enting over 71,000 writer and publisher affil|; iates. More than 50 percent of the music 
played on American radio stations in the 
past year is licensed by BMI. It also has 
(reciprocal agreements with 39 foreign per
forming rights licensing organizations 
around the world, making its music availa
ble there and representing foreign music in 
this country.
CMUs ABCinwems und Pimm Pigum Ciunwil will pesenm Whe Piinme Sismes in Minduy, 
Sepmembe 24 um 8pm. Whe shiw will be in Cunegie Musiw Hull. Wiwkems ue in sule niw um 
mhe Skibi Infimumiin Desk und mhe Lillium Pimm Uniin Bix Offiwe.__________________
New Faculty
Saxophonist 
K/oss joins 
University
Jazz saxophonist Eric Kloss has joined the 
Music Department faculty at CamegieMellon University as an artist-lecturer. Kloss 
will begin teaching saxophone in the fall 
semester.
An honors graduate of the Western Pen
nsylvania School for Blind Children and 
Duquesne University, Kloss began compos
ing at 12. At IS, he and his quartet appeared 
on the Mike Douglas Show.
Kloss has recorded more than 50 erf his 
original works and has created the soundtracks 
for three films. He was named outstanding 
young jazz saxophonist in the United 
States by Down Beat magazine and was the 
first American to win the Monaco Interna
tional Competition of jazz writers.
Kloss has performed at the Newport Jazz 
Festival, Radio City Music Hall and the 
Berlin Jazz Festival among others. He is a 
native of Greenville. Pa.
Is your calculator in the same class you are?
Move up to theTl-66.The easy 512 step programmable.
Youre into higher math and your old 
calculator helped get you there.
But now its time for something more. 
The TI-66 from Texas Instruments. The 
TI-66 offers full programming power and 
flexibility so you can solve complex and 
repetitive math problems quickly, easily 
and with fewer keystrokes than you 
thought possible. Its 512 merged pro
gram steps and over 170 built-in 
scientific, engineering and statistical 
functions make for powerful program
ming. And the sleek, streamlined design 
makes for easy use.
Its Algebraic Operating System makes 
it easy on your brain by allowing you to 
key in problems as they are written, left 
to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid 
Crystal Display not only makes it easy 
on your eyes but provides alphanumeric 
notation of your program steps so you 
can make easy modifications as you 
go along. There are large, readable keys 
for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow
guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. 
And last, but certainly not least, at a 
suggested retail of $69.95, theres a price 
thats easy on your pocketbook.
All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro
grammable cakulator any easier to use, 
it would deserve its own degree
Anart TRtHis.nRHt
Creating useful products 
and services for you.

---------------------------------------------------

AB Dancepresentsits first extravaganza of the year . . .
A WILD 
VIDEODANCE PARTY
feumuing mip videis by . . .
David BowiePhil CollinsDuran DuranSplit EnzThe KinksMazeElton JohnNaked Eyes Peter TownshendBill WymanThomas DolbyRod Stewart Todd RundgrenAshford & Simpson
9:30 pm 
Fiduy, Sepmembe 14 
Skibi Bulliim 
Admissiin und Refeshmenms FREE
Funded by Student Awbvkm Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1984The TartanPage 17
Preseason preview: Raiders look good again
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Sports Editor
The Key word in the American Foot
ball Conference is new. There will be 
new quarterbacks in New York, Pitts
burgh, Cleveland, Indianapolis and 
Houston. There will be two new head 
coaches in Houston and Cincinnatti. 
And, or course, there is even a enw city in 
the AFC, Indianapolis.
Bet the house on Los Angeles to repeat 
as conference champion. Miami and New 
England both look strong in the East, 
give the division to Miami and the wild
card spot to the Patriots. The Steelers get 
the central division by default while the 
chargers take the other wildcard spot. 
Look for a Miami-Los Angeles cham
pionship game.
Here is a brief rundown of each team, 
in order of predicted finish:AFC East
Miami-Don Shula always gets the most out 
of his team, and this year should be no 
exception. Dan Marino, who started in the 
Pro Bowl last year, looks stronger than ever 
coming off of a pre-season injury. The tragic 
off-season death of running back David 
Overstreet was a blow to the offense, but the 
Dolphins hope to replace him with 4th 
round draft pick Joe Carter out of Alabama. 
The Dolphins always have a solid defense 
and barring any serious injuries, it should 
stay.that way, despite the loss of defensive 
wizard Bill Amsparger. Look for the Dol
phins to take the AFC East and go to the 
AFC championship behind the arm of 
Marino and the mind of Shula.
New England-Its been a few years since the 
Patriots have been in post-season play, but
this year could be different. With one of the 
best offensive lines in the league, a 1,000 yard 
rusher in Tony Collins and a rejuvenated 
Steve Grogan, the offense looks good. Irving 
Fryars preseason injury really hurt the Pats, 
but when he returns he wont hurt the 
offense either. Rich Camarillo was an asset 
as a punter, but he too was injured and is a 
question mark right now, Assuming these 
key players come back to be right in the 
thick of things this year.
New York Jets-The Jets have dropped 
quickly from a Super Bowl contender to a 
rebuilding team. With Richard Todd now 
in New Orleans the Jets must choose 
between Ken OBrien, who has yet to play a 
down in the NFL, and Pat Ryan, who has 
thrown about 50 passes over the last six 
seasons, at quarterback. They must rely on 
their strong defensive line to hold the 
tion and hope that Freeman MacNeil has a 
banner year in order to be respectable. 
Buffalo-The Bills finished 22nd in scoring 
last year and have lost their top running 
back and two good receivers, which says 
something about the kind of year the Bills 
might be having this year. With the explo
sive Joe Cribbs gone to the USFL, Jerry 
Buder hurt and Frank Lewis retired, it will 
not be a happy story in Buffalo. 
Indianapolis-Not even a change of scenery 
will help the Colts. They have a good offen
sive line and a great running game (Curtis 
Dickey and Randy McMillan combined for
nearly 2,000 yards last year) but their top 
pass receiver was 50th in the AFC in receiv
ing. Frank Kush is still a college coach, try
ing to intimidate his players by running 
them into the ground in July and August, 
continued on page 20
CMU Karate Club
Beginners classes start 
the weeks of 9/9 and 
9/16
Tuesday: 8:3010:30 pm
Thursday: 7:009:00 pm
Saturday: / / :30 1:30 pm
i'arn Montague looks on as the Tartans practice.
i chasdng mhe Lis Angdes Ruides in mhe AFC Lesm.
Experienced squad returns
| By SCOTT BOZIC| Tartan Sports Editor
With ten of eleven starters returning from 
[last years sqiiad, its no wonder everyone 
issociated with CMU soccer is so optimistic 
lis year. Head coach Nick Gaudioso, now 
eginning his fourth year here at CMU, feels 
it this is the best team he has seen yet. 
Four of the returning ten starters were all 
Residents Athletic Conference (PAC) selecions last year. Senior sweeper Neal Frink, 
/ho was named all-PAC for the third con
nive year last year in addition to being 
imed team MVP and an all Pennsylvania, 
iew Jersey and Delaware pick, returns as 
captain. Juniors Charlie Lockhead 
Alex Tomlinson each return after their 
all-PAC season as does Ted Anderer, 
broke CMU scoring records by scoring 
goals and adding 5 assists for a total of 27 
while being named honorable menal-PAC in 1983.
Several freshman should figure promithis year also. Alan Mayr will most 
be inserted immediately into the 
 neup at midfield after scoring 26 goals and 
I iding 14 assists in his senior year of high 
fihool. Defender Kevin Jung and reserve 
Moalie Jamie Ruffing are two other top
prospects.
Coach Gaudioso is pleased with the way 
practices have gone so far and is looking 
forward to the season, which begins on Sat
urday September 15 with the CMU soccer 
tournament. In looking over the schedule 
Gaudioso notes that John Carroll and 
Bethany will be the teams to beat in the 
PAC, with Grove City fielding a strong 
team also. Outside the PAC, he feels that 
Geneva, Frostburgh St. and Pitt will all be 
tough teams to beat. There are no easy 
teams we can afford to look past he adds.
Although post-season play may be too far 
ahead to think about, Gaudioso notes that 
due to a change in the region in which CMU 
plays (the region lost one team, but gained 
ten good ones) We would have to play real 
well to get on NCAA berth, more than just 
win the Conference.
As far as strengths and weaknesses of the 
team, experience is an obvious plus, while 
Gaudioso expressed concern about the 
squads depth and defensive play.
With three valuable seniors playing their 
final year, Gaudioso feels this years squad 
may be a peak for CMU soccer, and bar
ring any injuries hopes to finish high in the 
PAC.
Classes meet in Thistle Hall in 
the Gym.
$5 club dues per semester.Shotukan Karate of America is a nonprofit organization.

---------------------------------------------------

Improved women's volleyball team starts season
A Tartan jumps high for the spike.
photo by Badman Dadey
By WHOMAS MENNER
Tartan Staffumter
The beginning of school in the waning 
days of summer signifies the start of the fall 
athletic schedule. One of the campus teams 
that begins its season now is the womens 
volleyball team, headed by coach Jane Fisk. 
The Tartans, led by junior captain Janet 
Stariha, are comprised of thirteen women, 
including six returning lettermen.
Coach Fisk feels that this team is one of 
the strongest CMU has fielded, as team 
strength lies in blocking, setting, and espe
cially hitting. Other advantages include 
height, original and newly enhanced strate
gies, and incoming freshmen who have 
prior experience in high school volleyball. 
Possible problems cited by Coach Fisk lie in 
developing blocking experience and quick
ness, maintaining intensity throughout the 
entire game, and the potential ability of 
opponents. CMU plays such ranked teams 
as Grove City and Indiana Univeristy of 
Pennsylvania, and Divison I powers Robert 
Morris and Duquesne. However, Coach 
Fisk feels the strength of the CMU game will 
provide such opponents with a difficult 
match, if not a defeat.
According to Coach Fisk, womens vol
leyball has greatly improved in play within 
the last four years. Women enter the college 
game with knowledge, skill and experience 
acquired from high school programs. They 
bring these advantages to their team, and the 
level of play is subsequendy raised. With the 
increases in high school teams and numbers 
of players, it is little surprise that college 
teams have become better in mhei smyle if 
play. Villeybull is un exwiming sport, und it is 
mude bemme by quulimy competition (us uny 
viewe if mhe 84 Summe Olympics villey
bull gumes wiuld uffim). H
at ChlckenCluuiies
(Heudquumeed unde mhe Sheemz in mhe wime if Ouklund und Fibes Ave.)
People all over Oakland are going underground to Chicken Charlies. And once you taste our fried chicken you wont be able to resist joining them. Because Chicken Charlies makes the best southern fried chicken youll ever encounter. We use big, juicy pieces of chicken, coat them in a specially seasoned batter and deep fry them to a perfect golden brown.And when you come into Chicken Charlies now through Sept. 14, well give you a Chicken Snack Pack FREE when you buy one for only $1.89. Thats right, buy one Chicken Snack Pack with two pieces of chicken, french fries and a roll and get a second one free. And at Chicken Charlies you can surrender your thirst to over 150 different kinds of beer. Its all chilled and ready to move out. So for the most delicious fried chicken in Pittsburgh, join the movement underground to Chicken Charlies.
Buy one j
Chicken Snack Pack#l get one
FREE
Offer valid every day after 2 pm until Sept. 14
The comer of Oakland 
and Forbes Ave. 
Under the Sheetz
Open Daily 10 AM-2 AMFeaturing over 150different Kindsof cold beer to go |
The Tartans play their first game away at 
Penn StateMcKeesport, with their first 
home game being played against Grove City 
at 6:00 pm, September 19th.
Field hockey 
goes for four 
seasons in row
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffivriter
After a 6-3 record (5-1 in conference) and a 
tie with Bethany College last year for the 
Pennwood West Conference champion
ship, the CMU field hockey team is about to 
start the 1984 season with great expectations, 
hoping to lead the conference for the third 
straight year. The team had sole possession 
of first place in 1982.
This time, however, they will have a new 
hand at the helm, Jan McDowell, a Pitts
burgh native. Prior to coming to CMU, she 
coached at Pitt (1976-1979), Eastern Michi
gan (1970-1975), and assisted at her alma 
mater, Ohio University (1968-1969). While 
at Ohio University, McDowell earned three 
All-Buckeye selections and as a senior was 
on the All-Great Lakes field hockey team. 
She replaces Joan Maser, who led the Tar
tans to an overall 15-10 record over three > 
years as coach and has been promoted to 
assistant director for womens athletics.
Whis yeus meum is elumively yiung ine. 
Of mhe eighmeen pluyes in mhe meum, mhee 
ue emuning seniis, inwluding wi-wupmuin 
Muy Ann Suwwi. Whe imhe wi-wupmuin, 
Lynne Ommi, is ine ef mhe meums wine
smines. She wus numed lusm yeu mi mhe Pen
nwiid Lesm^UQinfensKH meup und wus j 
mhe ewipienm in Muy if mhe Mushull Biwn 
Swhiluship uwud, uwuded fi uwudemiw H 
und umhlemiw ubilimy.
Whe Wumun iffense shiuld be sming mhis 
yeu, wimh fiwud Luuu Giuulli emuning 
und Muiu Kizi, ulsi u fiwud, wiming 
buwk fim u knee injuy mhum kepm he ium if 
uwmiin lusm yeu. Whe meum is ulsi well iff in 
mhe nem, wimh vemeun Sue Klein being uided 
by newwime Lindu Muwiux.
Whis will be mhe lusm yeu mhum Wumun field 
hiwkey is in mhe Pennwiid Lesm Cinfe
enwe. Nexm yeu, field hiwkey will jiin mism 
imhe Wumun meums in mhe Pesidenms 
Amhlemiw Cinfeenwe. Whe field hiwkey meum 
will, hiweve winminue mi fuwe mudimiinul 
ivuls suwh us Bemhuny, Lushingmin und Jef
fesin, und Chumhum wimh mhe new 
uungemenm
Whe field hiwkey meum will begin ims shim 
seusin wimh u hime gume um Wewh Field 
uguinsm Lushingmin und Jeffesin in Sep
membe 18 um 4:30 pm.
SEPTEMBER 
SPECIAL ISSUE!Gay 
Youth 84
ONLY
INHelpu
(th* complet* GAY tournai) 
NOW ON SALE AT 220 
TRI-STATE LOCATIONS 
OR CALL (4121 243-3341
Page 18The TartanSeptember 12, 1984


---------------------------------------------------

MARGARET MORRISON PLAZA STORES WELCOMES NEW AND RETURNING STUDENTS
CABER CLUB:
OPEN HOUSE at the Caber Club will be from Sept. 17 to Sept. 23. Come in and meet the staff and take advantage of the many special offerings. During OPEN HOUSE anyone going through their initial workout will receive a free Health Assessment which includes: body weight measurement, % of body fat measurement, blood pressure test, flexibility testing, and your personal training heart rate range. And if you are interested in joining with a group, there are special group rates available. So get together with your department, office, club, fraternity, or sorority and get as much as $15.00 off on each membership. Make plans now to visit our OPEN HOUSE or for more information or an appointment call extension 8876.
'V 
'Hilf
CO-OP STORE:Stop in to see our new line of Nabisco cookies arid crackers, ice cream novelties, Bigelow tea products, assorted hard and soft candies and over a hundred other items sold in the store. Sandwich orders can be called in between 9:30 am and 11:00 am for pickup between 11:30 am and 1:00 pm. Orders called in after 11:00 am will not be available until after 1:30 due to lunch time customers and getting things prepared for the afternoon. For placing an order or information call extension 8877.
PLAZA CLEANERS/LAUNDRY:An attendant is available from 10:00 am to 6:00 pm to help advise you with any problems that might arise.Take advantage of our pickup and delivery service which is available for all of your dry cleaning and shirt service needs. We also have a personal laundry service which includes washing, drying* and folding clothes at $.45 per pound. For more information about dry cleaning and laundry service call extension 8878.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanSeptember 12, 1984Dolphins, Steelers, Raiders to take divisions
continued from page 17
but the pros play 16, not 10 games, so the 
Colts will be resting in the cellar come 
December.
AFC Central
Pimmsbugh - This may not be the strongest 
Steeler team ever, but it is strong enough. 
Despite the shakeup at quarterback the 
Steelers dont have much to lose at that posi
tion after finishing with the second worst 
passing game in the league last year. David 
Woodley and Louis Lipps are two people
who will be trying to change that. The 
defense should be strong, as it always is. 
Even without names like Franco Harris and 
Terry Bradshaw, the Steelers should finish in 
that familiar top spot in the AFC Central. 
CindnnattiThanks to a good draft and a 
good defense, the forecast is good for Cincinnatti. Forrest Gregg is out, Sam Wyche is in 
at head Coach. Gregg was known for his 
ability to handle pressure from the front 
office, which may have been an underrated 
role. Whether Wyche can do the same 
remains to be seen. If the Bengals can get 
some pass protection for Ken Anderson and 
fill the gaps left by the stream of Bengals to 
the USFL, they should be within striking 
distance of the AFC Central crown. 
Cleveland-The Browns are one of the many 
NFL teams with a big question mark at 
quarterback. Theres really no competition 
for the job, but the question is: Is Paul 
McDonald a starting NFL quarterback? 
The consensus answer is no and that will 
keep the Browns down. Mike Pruitt is a 
good running back and the Browns have 
one of the best linebacking corps in the 
league, but those are only a couple of pros in 
a sea of cons for the Browns.
Hiusmin-Hiw well Warren Moon will play 
in the NFL remains to be seen, but with only 
one or two quality receivers on the roster and 
an offensive line thats built around Earl 
Campbell, it may not be that much of a 
factor. Despite a great offensive line and 
Campbells running, the Oilers have no 
defense and unless new head coach Hugh 
Campbell can get a lot out of the seven 
defensive players he drafted in the first six 
rounds, the Oilers will be looking up at the 
rest of the AFC Central.
AFC West
Lis Angeles-Whe Raiders didnt have too 
much trouble proving themselves to be the 
top team in the NFL last year and this year 
should be no different. Jim Plunkett and 
Marc Wilson competing at quarterback can 
only help them. With a healthy Marcus 
Allen in addition to a more experienced, 
healthy defense, the Raiders are very likely to 
improve on their Super Bowl champion 
team of 1983, which could make if a long 
year for the rest of the AFC West.
Sun Diegi-If the Chargers ever got a defense 
they would be a serious threat to the Raiders, 
but in the meantime they will have to con
tinue to rely on the arm of Dan Fouts to
carry them to post-season play. Chuck Muncie just keeps chugging along in the backfield and if Kellen Winslow decides to play 
football, hell be a big weapon also. 
Seattle-The loss of Curt Warner for the year 
buried any post-season hopes the Seahawks 
have had, despite what anyone thinks 
Franco Harris may have left. The passing 
attack is still a good one, but the defense is 
also questionable. It looks like a wait until 
next year year for Seattle this year. 
Denver-John Elway still has not proven 
himself as a solid NFL quarterback and, 
with no solid ground game to speak of, the 
Broncos should find themselves battling the 
Chiefs for the cellar. The Broncos have a 
good secondary and a fair defensive line, but 
overall there wont be too much to cheer 
about at Mile-High Stadium this year. 
Kunsus City-The Chiefs havent finisRed| 
second or better in over ten years and this, 
years forecast calls for more of the same. 
Despite the fact that Bill Kenney threw for 
over 4,000 yards last year, he is still compet-| 
ing with Todd Blackledge for his job. The 
Chiefs have no running game to speak of 
and their once fine secondary has been 
depleted by trades.
Women's tennis opens Friday
^Imh lusm yeus Pi Biwl smume Dun 
Munni um mhe helm, mhe Miumi Dil 
phins ue mhe meum mi beumin mhe AFC
Eusm photo courtesy street and Smith's
By DAVID KAWZ
Tartan Staff writer
The CMU Womens Tennis team opens 
its season this Friday, September 14, at 4:00 
at home against Pitt This season promises 
to be a very successful one for womens ten
nis. As a matter of fact, the teams new coach, 
Mindy Fall said, We can beat Pitt, and 
that this team could well win the Confer
ence Championship.
This years team has 5 returning players, 
including three seniors. Playing singles for
the Tartans will be Darla Messick, Leslie 
Inglese and Ix>reha Miller, The doubles 
teams will be Liza Reed and Laurie Arendas, Sally Yanchus and Amy Shaw, and 
Andrea Benowitz and Claire Palmgren. As 
of September 6, Coach Fall is only sure of
one ranking: that of Liza Reed and Laurie 
Arendas as number one doubles. The other 
two doubles teams are still slugging it out 
for number two, and the singles rankings 
arent established either. Coach Fall said all
three singles players are "very strong, and 
that our number one doubles team could | 
well take the Conference Championship.
The Tartans play in the Pennwood We 
Conference, which consists of seven schools^! 
including CMU. Last year, CMU was J 
second in the Conference. They will play all
of their divisional foes, as well as six othe 
schools, including Pitt. The Conferenc 
Championships will be played on Octot 
13th at Bethany College in West Virginia.STUDENT SENATE VACANCIES
Student Senate announces openings in the following colleges:
CFA-2 CIT-3 H&SS-l MCS -1
Petitions are available at Skibo Information Desk, and are due at 5:00 pm on Friday, 
September 20, 1984. All Activities Fee-paying students in their respective colleges are eligible. If. X-yau have any questions, call the Student Senate office at x2115, or John Pane at x4722.
Student Senate.We get things done.
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

AK( ion r err sPRESENT
WITH SPECIAL GUEST

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Tartan strives to balance journalism
The issue of what is appropriate in student 
journalism has recently surfaced as vital to 
students in Pittsburgh. Last spring the editors 
of the Duquense Duke published an April 
Fools issue that offended some to the extent 
that endowments to the school were cancelled. 
Just last week the Pitt News published an arti
cle quoting a football player using language 
that offended some editors so much they 
resigned from the News.
It seems obvious both newspapers made a 
mistake  but how grave a mistake remains
uncertain. The question then becomes: Where 
does the responsibility of a journalist to keep 
his audience informed end and his duty to keep 
potentially harmful news secret begin?
On the nauonal level the choice was ma^e 
by President Reagan when he barred journal
ists from Grenada, an unprecedented action 
from the Revolution to Vietnam.
At CMU, however, students are able to 
decide for themselves. Last spring when 
Orpheus Allison reported the Student Senate 
to the PLCB, The Tartan chose to hold the
information for a week in hope that the Pitts
burgh media would not find out about the 
situation before the incident was cleared up.
However, if the administration were to 
make a policy decision in favor of the students 
at this university but not in accordance with 
the law, it would become difficult to decide . 
whether or not to report it.
The Tartan can only promise to try to pub
lish All the news thats fit to print. But even 
The New York Times makes mistakes. So 
please feel free to make suggestions.Reagan substitutes sincerity for reality
By Stuart Shapiro
The image makers, otherwise known as 
the Reagan-Bush 84, were at it again a few 
weeks ago. Now that Labor Day has come 
and gone, theyll be at it with a vengeance 
vv ~until November. God only 
knows what theyll do for an 
_ encore after the show they put 
on in Dallas.
Of course, Mondales people were sim
ilarly engaged a few weeks before that. He 
has some professionals erf his own. The 
Republicans, however, proved themselves 
more than just professionals. They were 
masters. And the most masterly of the lot 
was Ronald Reagan.
You have to give credit where credit is 
due. Reagan may not do very much well as
By Dun Wibius
I am about to explore various topics from 
a Libertarian standpoint. The Libertarian 
philosophy holds that people should be free 
to run their lives in any manner they wish, 
as long as they do not infringe 
on the rights erf others.
Jf The basic purpose of govern
ment and its only valid function
The Greek View
As a representative of InterFratemity 
Council (IFC) at Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity, Id like to extend a warm welcome to 
incoming freshmen and transfer students.
My name is Marc Bolan, and I 
am in charge of coordinating a 
Greek column, an IFC spon
sored column in The Tartan. 
The columns purpose is to present to stu
dents of CMU activities and ideas of fraterni
ties and sororities and explain the effect they 
have on the campus community.
CMU has 12 fraternities and five sororities 
situated on campus. IFC deals with issues 
affecting Greeks and non-Greeks alike with 
representative from each fraternity and sor
ority. IFC sponsors campus-wide events like 
Watermelon Bash and Greek Sing, a charity 
event in March.
IFC also does a great deal of charity work. 
Fraternities have held blood drives for Cen
tral Blood Bank and raised money for Multi
ple Sclerosis Foundation and American 
Cancer Society, while sororities have 
worked to refurbish the Oakland Womens 
Center and have raised money for a woman 
to receive a bone marrow transplant 
During upcoming weeks, freshmen will 
be barraged with signs, posters, and invita
tions to borbeques and parties. This is all 
appropriately called Rush.
As many of you knowjlush has started.
president, but what he does do well, he does 
superbly. What he does so well is no mystery 
to anyone who watched him accept the 
Republican presidential nomination for the 
second time. Nor is it unapparent to anyone 
following the adventures of the tefloncoated president for any length of time. 
Theres nothing intricate or complex about 
it Simply put, Ronald Reagan makes Ame 
icans feel good about themselves and about 
their president.
The beauty of it lies in the ease with 
which Reagan manages to pull it off. It just 
flows out of him with no visible effort what
soever. The man positively reeks of sincerity 
and virtue. Listening to him, one quickly 
forgets his factual errors, the realities of his
is to protect the nghts of citizens against 
people who use force or fraud, such as mur
derers, rapists, and invading foreign armies. 
Thus, the government may set up police, 
courts, and armed forces.
U.S. government was founded, as stated in 
the Declaration of Independence: that we all 
have the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness, that the government exists
but for you who havent heard, let me des
cribe it now. Sorority Rush is a structured 
system by which women get to meet 
members of sororities in an informal setting 
(such as ice cream social) and discuss soror
ity life. The sororities hold parties where 
women can see the houses and learn more 
about the activities of sororities.
Fraternity Rush works in a somewhat dif
ferent way. Each fraternity on campus coor
dinates its own Rush events, induding 
barbeques, Monday night football, pizza 
breaks, and parties. I urge you all to try and 
attend some of these events and get a feel for 
Greek life. Take a litde time away from the 
grind erf school work, and visit all the houses 
on campus. Meet some people, and listen to 
what they have to say. You have time to 
decide whether or not fraternity or sorority 
life is for you, so dont feel pressured to make 
a quick decision. All we want is the chance 
to meet you. And believe me, no one will 
think any less of you if you decide not to 
join. Rush is an experience that is hard to 
forget, so try it out.
In the next few weeks, if I do my job nght, 
individuals from various fraternities and 
sororities will be expressing their impres
sions of Rush when he or she went through 
it, and perhaps this will give you a more 
detailed account of what Greek Rush is 
really like. Please take a few moments to 
look at the Greek system, but most of all do 
what is best far you.
policies, and the damage done by his admin
istration. All that matters is the man speak
ing in front of us, espousing the virtues of 
family, patriotism, and capitalism in a way 
that makes us want to believe. The trick, of 
course, is that he really believes it himself
and communicates that belief with incredi
ble effectiveness. That what he says has only 
a tenuous connection with reality is almost 
forgotten, at least by those who knew better 
to begin with, in the midst of the perfor
mance. The effect is at times almost
hypnotic.
That insidious Reagan charm may prove 
the single most important factor in the fall 
campaign. The president will be asking, 
with honest, likeable sincerity oozing from
only to protect these rights, and that it is the 
right of the people to reform, or even abolish 
governments which become an aggressor 
against liberty instead of a preserver of it.
However, modem governments, includ
ing the U.S. government, have become an 
invader of individual rights. The govern
ment sees fit to decide what substances we 
can ingest, what sort of sexual relations peo
ple can have, and in many other areas limits 
what kind of voluntary arrangements in 
which consenting adults can engage. 
Government economic regulations hinder 
the ability of entrepreneurs to provide servi
ces desired by consumers.
In the coming weeks I will look at various 
areas and examine the arguments used by 
pro-govemment interests to justify regula
tion, and give counter-arguments.
Also, since this is an election year, I will 
take a look at the presidential candidates to 
see if either Reagan or Mondale offers any 
hope for an increase in individual liberty.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.

Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of indwidual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number far verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
every pore, whether youre better off now 
than you were four years ago. But in many 
instances, most notably those making under 
$80,000 a year, people will end up respond
ing to a very different question. A lot of 
voters will undoubtedly cast their votes for 
Ronald Reagan not because theyre better 
off than four years ago, but because they feel 
better.than they did four years ago  about 
America, about the future, about their 
leader.
That kind of feeling tends to overwhelm 
worries about issues and realities. After all, 
that kind of stuff can get pretty depressing. 
And even when it doesnt, its still more fun 
to wave the flag and get fired up about the 
land of the free and the home of the brave. 
Even a friend of mine who confesses liberal
ism lurks within the deep, dark recesses of 
her heart, finds herself mesmerized by Rea
gan at his best, nodding along at all the right 
places. But at least she snaps out of it when 
the show is over.
Lest all this seem to cynical and partisan, 
let me add that Im just as proud to be an 
American as our president, and I think there 
is an awful lot about this country to feel 
good about. But theres also a lot to be con
cerned about and plenty of reasons to view 
Ronald Reagan and his administration 
with a critical eye.
If voters allow emotion to supplant rea
son this fall, they will discredit any claim 
that it has become virtually impossible to 
please the American voter. If all they 
demand is someone who can make them feel 
good, pleasing the American voter isnt very 
hard at all.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
applied history and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Editor in Chief......................................Ric Medrow
Managing Editor.................................Mark Levine
Business Manager.......................Neil Greenblum
News Editor....................................... Chris Lewis *
Features Editor.......................Neal W. Johnston
Entertainment Editor.....................Adam Hanin
Sports Editor......................................... Scott Bozic
Photography Editor ....._..............Mike Pilewski
Production Manager.............Michele Reisinger
Ad Manager.............................................Steve Volan
Typesetting Manager..........................Jill Qelland
Contributing Editor.........................Pauline Wen
Asst EnL Editor............................Leslie Brunker
tde Business Manager.....................Bonnie Topf
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Peter Bain, Don 
Eggert, Duane Galbi ------------------------------------
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit lor publication. Editorial Offices: 
Ski bo 50. (412) 578-2111.. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2112.24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Boot 17, Schenley Park. Pittsburgh PA 15213.
$,-i fcjr dar Activities Fee.
AB ij^Hi iuwwL
Libertarian traces party's theory 
to U.S. Declaration of Independence
Greek Rush hits CMU
By Muw Bilun

---------------------------------------------------

September 12,1984The TartanPage 23
sea. vt, mA, we. got thrs& mouths to fisssr mA, to*Mg m&m out mm. \ssrm mm& in...;' .*  -   1,1 
ore Sports:
ack surprises PAC
ANE GALBI
Staffwriter
____ig into last springs PAC Trade
Jkionships, CMUs long standing 
lance was under siege. The Tartans, 
|ccustomed to entering the meet as 
favorites, found themselves a few 
down according to the coachs prelanning.
gs, however, dont always go accordlan.
the cinders cleared following the 
ick event, the 10,000 meter run, the 
|s were left holding a 19 point lead. A 
tich they were able to stretch to 61 
by the time the two day meet had
Brewer and John Wessels started 
artan charge with a first place tie in 
meter at 32:32. For Brewer, an 
lited walk-on his freshman year, it 
ne finale to his collegiate career, 
ewer heads off for a career in busiWall Street, he sees the major disapnt in his running career as one not 
J along the lines of failing to reach 
ividual potential, but rather the 
failure to win the Nationals in cross 
R unning, though, is no means a do 
J^J^muumin for Brewer. As he puts it, "I
View from a Height
Off campus: boon or bust?
run to stay in shape. In cross country or track 
you dont expect to receive a lot of attention 
or glory. You have to know yourself that 
you have done well. And done well he has. 
He has been a steady third man in cross 
country and a consistent medal winner in 
the 10,000 meter in track for the Tartans. 
Brewer was one who chose to attend CMU 
solely on the basis of its academic reputa
tion, not its athletic reputation, and was 
concerned only that the opportunity to run 
intercollegiately should exist. However, he 
has contributed much to bring about the 
athletic reputation that CMU now enjoys in 
cross country and wil undoubtably contrib
ute to the academic reputation of CMU as 
his business career progresses.
Other notable performances were Mike 
Shorts wins in the 1,500 and 800 meter runs. 
Bob Krouse was also a double medal winner 
as he landed a first and second with times of 
54.7 and 50.7 in the 400 IM and 400 meter 
respectively. Short and Krouse both 
advanced to the nationals where they expe
rienced disappointing finishes.
The strong individual performances 
undoubtedly aided the Tartans, but it was 
an overall team effort that enabled the Tar
tans to buck the odds and bring back their 
sixth straight championship.
By SWEVE VOLAN
Last Wednesday I went to the first Student 
Dorm Council meeting in the Wherrett 
Room. I found the room packed with pros
pective SDC members eager to hear about 
all the activities SDC produces. 
But Ill bet out of all the 
Hf hundred-some-odd people 
Wm there, I was least excited about 
the upcoming year.
Why? Because Ive moved off-campus.
I havent moved very far; in fact, some of 
the houses across from Woodlawn Apart
ments on Forbes are closer to Skibo and the 
academic buildings-than is Mudge. I live in 
nice house, with three great housemates, a 
complete kitchen (a microwave so advanced 
you could hook to the Micom with it), a 
washer and dryer, a nice shaded patio, and a 
private bedroom. I pay about as much per 
month as I would for a prime double. So 
why do I have this left out feeling? Why do I 
feeL.so guilty?
I mean, a lot of people move off-campus 
all the time to save money from the high 
costs of Housing. I got a relative bargain 
compared to dorm rates. But somehow, that 
just doesnt seem enough.
Maybe its that I cant be an official 
member of SDC any more. It was a lot of fun 
last year, and I would have been a regular 
participant again this year but for the 
obvious necessity of residing in universityowned housing. Because I still pay the acti
vits Fee, I can partidtpate in some of their 
non-Housing related events as a volunteer, 
though that prospect seems sort of hollow.
Maybe I feel uncomfoertable because I no 
longer have the roofed CMU logo behind 
me. There are those  litde things I wont 
have access to any more, like four-digit 
phone dialing or free light bulbs. I cant 
play Assassin, or even get an A Phi O 
Tuck-In. Nor did I realize what hassles 
could come with a simple move down the 
street. In Boss Hall I didnt have to worry
about utilities or furniture or cleaning' the 
bathroom^back there, Housing took care erf 
it all. But when I got socked with a $200 
Duquesne Light electric bill in July (that I 
had to shoulder by myself due to some 
bizarre circumstances), I began to wonder 
about the carefree life Id just given up. 
And the empty living room where I was 
wondering didnt cheer me up any, either....
But who am I kidding really? I have this 
left out feeling because dorm living is a 
good time, and I chose to leave willingly. I 
originally applied for a double in Morewood on my housing deposit. When I got 
stuck in a Boss quad, I thought it was the 
of the world, because I knew the reputation 
of the Hill dorms. But it turned out to be a 
blast living on the 3rd floor, and the Hill in 
general, and I stopped envying the people in 
More wood and Mudge after a few weeks. 
Being with people is the best part of living 
in a college dorm, and I turned it down after 
only one year because I wasnt satisfied with 
some of the problems and living conditions 
with which the average dorm is always 
plagued.
The icing on the cake is that once you 
move off-campus, you can only get back on 
at the bottom of the waiting list, no matter 
what year you are. It maybe a necessary pol
icy, but it sure seems unfriendly. I guess the 
best advice I can give from here is that, if the 
idea ever comes to you, you think several 
times before moving off-campus. How 
much are you really saving  and how 
much are you giving up?
Maybe someday theyll change the policy 
erf SDC so people like me can take an active 
part. Maybe someday the title can be 
changed to accomadate all students. But I 
cantt worry about that now  Ive got to 
to go buy a couch.
Steve Volan is a sophomore in psychol
ogy and is a columnist for The Tartan.
poocy TpnRoNCWfe CPS

---------------------------------------------------

MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS WYNTON MARSALISLORIN MAAZEL ITZHAK PERLMAN
GET TWO TICKETS FREE
Take Advantage of Incredible Student DiscountsSubscribe now for as little as $3.50 per concertless than the price of a movie!
I SATURDAYS, 8:00 PM I
10 CONCERTSSeries C1 $40
Oct 6Michael Tilson Thomas conductor 
Horacio Gutierrez pianist 
Music of Copland, Beethoven & Strauss
Oct 20Lorin Maazel conductor 
Viktor Tretyakov violinist 
Music of Barber, Prokofiev & Sibelius
Nov 24Antal Dorati conductor 
Use von Alpenheim pianist 
Music of Haydn & Mahler
Dec 15Michael Lankester conductor 
Misha Dichter pianist 
Music of Corelli,
Rachmaninov & Wagner
Jan 12Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Dvorak
Jan 26Gunther Herbig conductor 
Nathaniel Rosen cellist 
Music of Tchaikovsky & Bruckner
Mar 9Sixten Ehrling conductor 
Itzhak Perlman violinist 
Music of Nielsen & Tchaikovsky
Mar 23Michael Lankester conduct or 
Mimi Lerner mezzo-soprano 
Music of Janacek 
Berlioz & Saint-Sans
May 11Garcia Navarro conductor 
Emanuel Ax pianist 
Program to be announced
May 25Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Stock, Roussel & Tchaikovsky
5 CONCERTSSeries C2$25
Nov 17Antal Dorati conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Brahms
Jan 5Michael Lankester conductor 
Shlomo Mintz violinist 
Robert Page conductor 
Joseph Evans tenor 
Mendelssohn Choir 
Music of Tchaikovsky,
Wieniawski & Rorem
Feb 2Christoph Eschenbach conductor 
& pianist 
Justus Frantz pianist 
All-Mozart Program
Apr 6Philippe Entremont conductor 
Anne Martindale Williams cellist 
Music of Rimsky-Korsakov,
Bloch & Mozart
May 18Zdenek Macal conductor
Paul Fried flutist
Gretchen Van Hoesen harpist
James Gorton oboist
Charles Lirette trumpeter
Victor Romanul violinist
Music of Mozart Lutoslawski, & Dvorak
15 CONCERTSSeries C (all of above)$52.50
THURSDAYS, 8:00 PM
10 CONCERTS
Series D$40
Nov 15Antal Dorati conductor 
Music ofjBeethoven & Brahms
Nov 29Michael Lankester conductor
Eunice Lee violinist
Music of Zwilich, Lalo & Beethoven
Jan 10Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Dvorak
Jan 24Gunther Herbig conductor 
Nathaniel Rosen cellist 
Music of Tchaikovsky & Bruckner
Feb 7Christoph Eschenbach conductor 
Music of Verdi, Berg & Tchaikovsky
Mar 14Yoel Levi conductor
Radu Lupu pianist
Music of Schumann & Prokofiev
Mar 28Sir Alexander Gibson conductor 
Jean-Philippe Collard pianist 
Richard Salter baritone 
Mendelssohn Choir
Music of Mozart Liszt & Walton
Apr 11Herbert Blomstedt conductor 
Miriam Fried violinist 
Music of Sibelius & Beethoven
May 9Garcia Navarro conductor 
Emanuel Ax pianist 
Program to be announced
May 23Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Stock, Roussel & Tchaikovsky
6 CONCERTSSeries D2$30
Oct 11Lorin Maazel conductor 
Wynton Marsalis trumpeter 
Music of Britten, Haydn & Berlioz
Nov 15Antal Dorati conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Brahms
Jan 24Gunther Herbig conductor 
Nathaniel Rosen cellist 
Music of Tchaikovsky & Bruckner
Mar 14Yoel Levi conductor
Radu Lupu pianist
Music of Schumann & Prokofiev
Apr 11Herbert Blomstedt conductor 
Miriam Fried violinist 
Music of Sibelius & Beethoven
May 23Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Stock, Roussel & Tchaikovsky
ALL PROGRAMS ANO ARTISTS 
ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE.
If you subscribe before Sept 14 we II give 
you two free tickets to the Pittsburgh Sym
phony's Sept. 19 Bach chamberorchestra 
concert at 8:00 PM at the Fulton Theatre. 
101 Sixth Street, downtown (one block 
from Heinz Hall). Subscribe Now and 
save! Free tickets will be held in your 
name at the Fulton Theatre the evening 
of the performance.
FRIDAYS, 8:30 PM
10 CONCERTS______Series A1 $40
Oct 12 Lorin Maazel conductor
Wynton Marsalis trumpeter
__________Music of Britten, Haydn & Berlioz
Nov 23 Antal Dorati conductor
Use von Alpenheim pianist
__________Music of Haydn & Mahler________
Dec 14 Michael Lankester conductor
Misha Dichterpianist 
Music of Corelli,
Rachmaninov & Wagner
Jan 4Same as Sunday, Jan. 6 (Series B1 )
Jan 25 Gunther Herbig conductor
Nathaniel Rosen cellist 
Music of Tchaikovsky & Bruckner 
Feb 8 Christoph Eschenbach conductor
__________Music of Verdi, Berg & Tchaikovsky
Mar 8 Sixten Ehrling conductor
Itzhak Perlman violinist 
Music of Nielsen & Tchaikovsky 
Mar 22 Michael Lankester conductor 
Mimi Lerner mezzo-soprano 
Music of JanaceK
__________Berlioz & Saint-Sans_________________
Apr. 4 Philippe Entremont conductor
(Thur.) and pianist
Anne Martindale Williams cellist 
Music of Rimsky-Korsakov, Bloch,
__________Mozart & Ravel_______________________
May 17 Zdenek Macal conductor
Paul Fried flutist 
Gretchen Van Hoesen, harpist 
James Gorton, oboist 
Charles Lirette, trumpeter 
Victor Romanul, violinist 
Concerto Night: Music of Mozart 
__________Lutoslawski & Dvorak_________________
10 CONCERTS______Series A2$40______
Oct 19 Lorin Maazel conductor
Viktor Tretyakov violinist 
Music of Barber, Prokofiev & Sibelius
Nov 16Antal Dorati conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Brahms
Nov 30 M ichael Lankester conductor
Eunice Lee violinist 
Music of ZwHich, Lalo & Beethoven
Jan 11Zdenek Macal conductor 
Music of Beethoven & Dvorak
Feb 1Same as Saturday, Fab. 2 (Serias C2)
Mar 15 Same as Thursday, Mar.14 (Series D2) 
Mar 29 Same as Thursday, Mar. 28 (Series D) 
Apr 12 Same as Thursday, Apr. 11 (Series D) 
May 10 Same as Thursday, May 9 (Series D) 
May 24 Same as Thursday, May 23 (Series D)
20 CONCERTSSeries A (all of above)$70
SUNDAYS. 2:30 PM
10 CONCERTS_______Series B1 -$40______
Oct. 7 Michael Tilson Thomas conductor 
Horacio Gutierrez pianist
__________Music of Copland, Beethoven & Strauss
Oct 21 Lorin Maazel conductor 
Viktor Tretyakov violinist
__________Music of Barber, Prokofiev & Sibelius
Nov 25 Antal Dorati conductor
Use von Alpenheim pianist
__________Music of Haydn & Mahler _______
Jan 6 Michael Lankester conductor
Shlomo Mintz violinist 
Robert Page conductor 
Joseph Evans tenor 
Mendelssohn Choir 
Music of Tchaikovsky,
__________Wieniawski & Rorem__________________
Feb 10 Christoph Eschenbach conductor
__________Music of Verdi, Berg & Tchaikovsky
Mar 10 Sixten Ehrling conductor
Itzhak Perlman violinist
__________Music of Nielsen & Tchaikovsky_______
Mar 24 Same as Saturday, Mar. 23(Series C1)
Apr 7 Philippe Entremont conductor
Anne Martindale Williams cellist 
Music of Rimsky-Korsakov,
__________Bloch & Mozart______________________
Apr 14 Herbert Blomstedt conductor
Miriam Fried violinist
__________Music of Sibelius & Beethoven________
May 19 Zdenek Macal conductor
Paul Fried flutist 
Gretchen Van Hoesen harpist 
James Gorton oboist 
Charles Lirette trumpeter 
Victor Romanul violinist 
__________Music of Mozart Lutoslawski, & Dvorak
5 CONCERTS________Series B2$25________
Oct 14 Lorin Maazel conductor
Wynton Marsalis trumpeter
__________Music of Britten, Haydn & Berlioz______
Dec 2 Michael Lankester conductor 
Eunice Lee violinist
__________Music of Zwilich, Lalo & Beethoven
Feb 3 Christoph Eschenbach conductor
& pianist 
Justus Frantz pianist
__________All-Mozart Program___________________
Mar 31 Sir Alexander Gibson conductor
Jean-Philippe Collard pianist 
Richard Salter baritone 
Mendelssohn Choir 
__________Music of Mozart, Liszt & Walton________
May 12 Garcia Navarro conductor
Emanuel Ax pianist 
__________Program to be announced_____________
15 CONCERTS
Series B (all of above)$52.50
HOW TO ORDER
1. Fill out the mail order form to the right and mail today.
2. Charge by Phone. Call (412) 392-4821 Monday 
through Friday, 9 am.-5 pm. Visa/MasterCard accepted
3. Sign up on campus through your student rep.
4. Visit the Subscription Sales Office, 4th Floor, Heinz 
Hall, 600 Penn Ave., downtown Pittsburgh, Monday
through Friday, 9 am.-5 pm.
Subscribe
l"W
Student Subscriber Order Form
Detach and mail to:
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Sales Office 
Heinz Hall 
600 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Name ______________
SeriesNo. of 
Seats
Price per 
SubscriptionTotal
First choice:
Second choice:
Method of Payment:
? Check or money order 
enclosed for full amount, 
payable to the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Society.
Charge to the credit card checked:
Current Mailing Address 
as of Sept. 1 __________? MasterCard
? Visa
CityState_Zip_
School
Account No.
Exp. Date/
Current phone i
Student I.D. No.
Name as on card
Signature
(please priog
The Pittsburgh Symphony OrchestraLorin Maazel, Music Consultant

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1984The TartanPage 25
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
The ihtramural playing field at the comer 
of Forbes Ave. and Margaret Morrison St. 
has been a place of recreation and reprieve 
for many years. Lately, the field has under
gone reconstruction, causing students to 
wonder if it has been replaced by a prelimi
nary parking lot excavation.
The conspicuous patch of dirt is not a 
preliminary excavation. The CamegieMellon athletic department has completed 
its renovation of the IM field, as it is 
called, and intends to keep it in its present 
I condition indefinitely.
Currently, not a patch of grass remains on 
the approximate acre of land next to the 
football field. What makes the new dirt play
ing surface superior to one of grass?
I Director of Athletics Jim Banner poses the 
safety factor as the primary reason for con
structing the new IM field. According to 
Banner, the field undergoes a tremendous 
amount of wear and tear from the many 
events that take place there. Under these 
onditions, maintenance becomes difficult 
and the amount of injuries increases.
With the constant wear on the field from 
Iflat-botttomed shoes, small patches of soil 
were protruding on the sides, said Banner.
These spots were becoming typical places 
[or injuries to occur. We had to create a safer 
>lace to play under the conditions.
What occurs when heavy rains fall?. Will 
tudents be forced to compete in a sea of 
Inud? Head groundskeeper Bob Ezatoff, 
vho recommended building the field to the 
KMU athletic department, does not foresee 
Brny problems of this kind occuring in the 
Biear future.
Thus far, the field has drained very well, 
we havent had any problems with excessive 
amounts of mud, remarked Ezatoff. The 
field has been treated with athletically-safe
chemicals, which are used to keep the field 
stabilized in the event of poor conditions. I 
think its a better playing surface, as 
opposed to the grass surface we had last
Yj

mm*
far
I. M. Field
photo by Eric Targan
year.
The field may prevent injuries, but it 
remains to be seen if the student athletes 
prefer a dusty field of dirt to a grass playing 
surface.
Its not pretty, but it is much safer than 
the grass surface and it can be used for all 
sorts of activities, commented Banner. Its 
not a question of whether the students prefer 
the field to a grass surface or not. We must 
consider the fact that injuries must be pre
vented first and foremost.
The issue of the new playing surface 
aside, Banner looks forward to a successful 
intramural season. He wishes, however, that 
Camegie-Mellon had more facilities for an 
intramural program which is constantly 
expanding.
Our outstanding program is limited by 
our athletic facilities, but we make the best 
use of them we can. Under the conditions, 
we have an excellent intramural program 
that the students should take full advantage 
of.
IM report
Wednesday, September 12th at 4:30 PM 
is the final deadline for intramural touch 
football and tannis. Entry forms are 
available in the intramural bulletin 
board in the gym.
There will be an intramural touch 
football rules clinic Wednesday, Sep
tember 12th at 4:30 PM in Thistle Hall. 
Each team must have a representative at 
this important rules clinic. Games begin 
Thursday, September 13th.
Co-rec volleyball, cross-country, water 
polo and chess entry forms are due 
Thursday, September 20 at 4:30 PM.
IM field undergoes major facelift
This is the aftermath of a hurricane that left 400 dead in 
in 1919. Red Cross was called in after the damage was done.
When Hurricane Allen hit Corpus Christi in 1980, Red Cross was 
there before the disaster struck-to help people prepare and evacuate. 
We were there during the crisis to help provide relief. And, afterwards, 
we were there to help the victims minimize their pain. Hurricane Allen
claimed two lives in Corpus Christi.
One hundred years of experience with disaster has taught us that
being prepared for it is half the battle.
Find out how you can help your community to be prepared. Call
your local Red Cross chapter today.
Red Cross: Ready for a new century.

---------------------------------------------------

WHAT EVERY STUDENT SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THE DEFERENCESBETWEEN LEASMG A TELEPHONE ANDLEASING A CHICKEN.
Yes, there are differences.
And we think you should 
know what they are.
Ask yourself these 
questions.
WHEN YOU LEASE A CHICKEN, DO YOU GIT THREE MONTHS FREE DURING THE SUMMER?
Probably not. But when 
you lease your telephone 
from AT&T this fall, you wont 
pay any lease charges next summer.
You can use your phone at home, and 
bring it back to school in the fall.
DO LEASED CHICKENS COME IN A SELECTION OF COLORS AND STYLES?
No. Chickens don't come in many colors.
But the AT&T telephone you lease 
this fall comes in a variety of 
colors and three popular styles.
ARE LEASED CHICKENS REPAIRED FREE?
Don't kid yourself. Repairing a chicken is a delicate 
process that requires the work of expensive professionals. 
However, in the off chance your AT&T leased telephone
needs repairs, we'll fix it absolutely free when you visit any 
of our AT&T Phone Centers.
ARE LEASED CHICKENS SHIPPED DIRECTLY TO YOU?
Ship a chicken? Dont be 
silly. However, your AT&T 
leased telephone will be 
shipped directly to you after 
one call to 1-800-555-8111, 
or you can pick up your 
phone at any of our AT&T 
Phone Centers.
ONE FINAL QUESTION: DOES IT COST THE SAME TO LEASE A CHICKEN AS TO LEASE A TELEPHONE THIS FALL?
Hardly. While we have no hard data 
on the exact cost of leasing a chicken, 
we can tell you with some certainty that 
the cost of leasing a telephone this fall 
is far less than you might think. 
The decision to lease a chicken or a 
telephone, of course, rests with you. 
But should you opt for the tele
phone, remember: you get three 
months free next summer, and you can take 
the phone home with you. There's a choice 
of colors and styles, free repair, and 
we'll ship you the phone or you can pick 
it up at any of our AT&T Phone Centers.
It doesn't cost much either. And 
thats something to crow about.
AT&T Consumer Sales and 
Service. To order your telephone, call 
1-800-555-8111 for delivery right 
to your door or for information concern
ing AT&T Phone Center locations.AT&T
Pimmsbugh 
126 S. Highlund Avenue
Vahd with the fogowing restriction: 1. You must be registeredfo^2 accredited hours for the 1984 fall term. Z^Valiclooly toLb!*!^ tlueIfrL(mmhswiUnot begjnuntiyou h^e^for toXst* i!me months ofyour lease^AU telephones are

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
rt, pres, ant, MtN Of/ IVEN h f NtSWAtf fOfc 'lEhfS
i, ano i'n gonna \l sut IT OOESNT
O y<7o ONDEMT
pmsow cjnrtT
"TWe boy \vds 
learned *h>o
N*>. Ktiling's
too good -tor Kin.
Mdke Viim a 
freshncm a^ain.
And renenber; 
boy. nof a 
ttJord /__
oindexter
DONT LET THAT
riempe m 
wmro Fot.Mw.1 THIS6W.K 
EHOKNOK.1
~m ak6m.TiHKX ina K &tomai 
Mow cdtBfi-.yuuKNsWAtmuE r
.. WefeK BwtEtarPwr. >
By Maszle and Beyer
Ww
r* mu*& yo ws
*** "H-U-6-E.'/ V-------
Get thatGreat X 
Look
Natural, Distinctive and lotally YOU! 
 tt
iQ/raftrrcxpecmions
PRECISION HAIRCUW WERS
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurv, Fri. 10-9 
Sum 9-6687 3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
237 Amwiid Smeem 
Awiss mhe smeem iim 
Ouklund Pism Offiwe
Jy"
Services and Placement
ORIENTATION MEETINGSI
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS INTENDING TO USE THE SERVICES
pc Hon Irinni SnifOLnt rRh wgrLn.nRH uccOLn HoOt Bnri topsgh
PLAN TO ATTEND (fflE OF THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULED MEETINGS:
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1984 - 11:30 A.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1984 - 4:00 P.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBtP. 28, 1984 - 11:30 A.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1984 - 4:00 P.M.
BALLROOM, SKIBO
THESE SESSIONS WILL LAST 40*50 MINUTES AND GENERALLY COVER THE 
RANGE OF SERVICES OF THE OFFICE AND AN EXPLANATION OF FORMS 
AND PROCEDURES USED. TIME WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR QUESTIONS AND 
DISCUSSION.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
The German Academic Exchange Service 
(DAAD) announces the availability of scholar
ship for students and faculty members:
German Studies Summer Seminar (in Ger
man) at the University of Marburg during 
June/July 1985
Deutschlandkundlicher Sommerkurs (in Ger
man) at Regensburg University 
For further information and application forms, 
please contact: German Academic Exchange Ser
vice (DAAD), 535 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1107, New 
York, NY 10017, Tel: 212-599-0464
College students interested in careers in medical 
or health professions can gain practical expe
rience by volunteering at Eye & Ear Hospital erf 
Pittsburgh. Hours are flexible and can be 
arranged to fit any schedule of classes. For more 
information, contact the hospitals volunteer 
office at 647-2185.
Carlow College, in association with The Gaelic 
League erf Pittsburgh, is offering the following 
Irish Studies courses for its Fall Term:
Gaelic I, II, III 
Irish History 
Irish Tradiuonal Dance 
Gaelic for Children - A Workshop 
Experiencing Ireland - A Workshop 
All classes begin the week of September 24. For 
registration information, please contact The 
Gaelic League at 412-364-0744 or Carlow College 
at 412-578-6094.
An announcement . . ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
National Service Fraternity, Meetings Every Wed
nesday, 8:30 p. m., Skibo Highlander Room.
La Table Franaise, French Language Table, 
Tuesdays at noon, starting September 11, 1984.
European Studies and Modem Languages Pro
grams announces that again the Language 
Tables will be held at noon in the Morewood 
Dining Room.
Delta Delta Delta is proud to announce the 
winner of their 1984 scholarship, Jane Li. Jane is 
currendy a senior majoring in Chemical Engi
neering. Each year tri-Delta awards one scholar
ship to a qualified woman on campus. The 
competition for the scholarship takes place at the 
beginning of each spring semester.
Deutscher Stammtisch, German Language 
Table, Thursdays at noon, starting September 
13, 1984.
Explorers Club - Rockclimbing and kayaking 
trips. All welcome. Meetings on Thursdays at 
6:30 in Skibo Room 12.
classifieds
Faculty family living near campus needs student 
to cook(nothing fancy) weekdays. Time and 
salary negotiable Call 622-6661 days,521-7515 
evenings.
Typing: Excellent typing on Morewood Avenue. 
New typewriter, editing, quick turnaround. 
Rush jobs welcome. $1 per page. Call 687-8159.
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559-$50,553/year. 
Now hiring. Your area. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. 
R-5563.
Meet interesting people. Play backgammon at 
The College Club. North Craig St. in Oakland at 
7:00 p. m. every Friday night starting September
7.
Mature person available for housecleaning. 
Experienced and Responsible. Call after 3 p. m. 
647-2450.
Oakland - For rent immediately - large 2- 
bedroom furnished, remodeled apartment 1 
block from university $410 plus electricity. 655- 
1872 after 5 p. m.
Modern
Ballet
Jazz
Tap
Creative
Movement
(412) 421-9749
If the information on your 3-D form 
was incorrect or if your address has 
changed for any reason, and you 
would like the correct information 
printed in the C-Book, fill out the fol
lowing form, and return it to the A Phi 
O mailbox behind the Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Name____________________________________
Major____________________________________
Year ____________________________________
Local Address _________________________
Phone____________________________________
To: White Witch - Happy 20th Birthday! I love 
you today as much as I ever have.
From: Fuzzy Bear
Women : over 25? In school? New career plans? 
Join Academic Bag Ladies over lunch 12-1:30 
Thursday - 4515 Forbes Ave. Info: 682-6886.
BABYSITTING: I can babysit for your child in 
my Morewood Avenue home. Anytime. Welleducated, responsible, mature. Reasonable rate. 
Call 687-8159.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one bed
room, remodelled, with new kitchen and bath. 
Ideal for two students to share. Only $340 per 
month, including utilities. CMU shutdebus ser
vice at front door. 682-7010.
Looking for Strat-o players to form variou: 
sports leagues. Jerry 571-0124
Tired of being ripped-off on the price of floppy 
disks? DISK-O-TECH to the rescue...3M, DATA
LIFE, XIDEX DISKS as low as $20 SSDD, $25 
DSDD for a box of 10, singles available. Call 
824-1142.
EXOTIC DANCERS - Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams 
931-3255.
Edgewood condo. 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, wAw car. 
peting, a/c, appliances, first floor, $69900, 242. 
8825.
miscellaneous
Tuesday Night Readings: On September U 
Michael OConnor, poetry, and Garnett Kilberg 
fiction, at The Back Room, Hemingways Cafe 
Forbes Aw., Oakland, 8:30 p. m. Free and open to 
the public.
The Silver Eye Photographic Workshop and 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art present: People/Public 
Places: A Photographic Competition and 
Bruce Davidson: A Subway Portfolio and Pitts, 
burgh People. The exhibit will be shown 
through October 7.
Calliope House, Inc. presents folksinger Rodie 
Wagner and the Double Decker String Band on 
Sat., Sept. 15 at 8 p. m. at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial of the University of Pittsburgh. Also, 
Irish fiddler Kevin Burke and guitarist Gerry 
OBeime on Sat., Sept. 22 at Graffitti, 4615 Baum 
Blvd., Oakland (Pittsburgh) at 8 p. m. Tickets for 
both shows are $7.00 at the door, $6.00 in 
advance.
Permanent Address
Mnpld wg u$
WHAT THE WORLD 
WAS DOING 
WHILE YOU WERE
iUSINESS
ALL THINGS CONSIDERED
with Susan Stamberg and Noah Adams 
Americas most-celebrated radio newsmagazine. 
Weekdays at 5V\QED-FM 89.3
WHERE RADIO IS A FINE ART
LewisCreative Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
682-4063
Mon. - Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
