HAPPY EXAMS!
4Glamour Invites Tech Panhel 
To Find 44Best DressedCoed
For the seventh year GLAMOUR Magazine is looking 
for the Ten Best Dressed College Girls in America  the 
ten outstanding young women who will be featured in the 
August, 1963 issue of GLAMOUR. The magazine has invited 
Tech Panhellenic Association to help them find these young 
women by selecting the best dressed girl on campus.
Our candidate for best dressed honors should have the 
following qualifications: 1. Good figure, beautiful posture. 2. 
Clean, shining, well-kept hair. 3. Good grooming  not just 
neat, but impeccable. 4. A deft hand with make-up. 5. A clear 
understanding of her fashion type. 6. Imagination in manag
ing a clothes budget. 7. A workable wardrobe plan. 8. A
YM-YW Sponsor 
Winter Weekend
Now is the last chance to sign 
up for a Winter Sports Weekend, 
sponsored by the Campus YMCA 
and YWCA. It will be held at 
Camp Deer Valley in Somerset 
County, the heart of the snow 
belt, the weekend between semes
ters: Friday tlirough Sunday Feb
ruary 1-3.
Camp Deer Valley has a free 
rope tow with ski slopes for be
ginners and intermediates, sepa
rate runs for toboggans, a private 
pond for skating, trails for winter 
hiking, etc. Toboggans and some 
| skis are available free of charge 
though you are urged to bring 
your own skis and boots or rented 
ones. The very low fee of $18 for 
Y members or $20 for non-mem-! 
bers (non-Tech guests may come) 
covers transportation via charter
ed bus, five meals plus two 
snacks, housing in a comfortable 
lodge. Those going must bring 
their own sleeping bag or bed roll. 
$10 registration fee will hold a 
place for you (places limited to 
25 so sign quickly); remainder of 
fee must be paid by January 25. 
$5 is refundable for cancellations 
up to January 18, none of the $10 
refundable after that. Departure 
will be Friday, February 1 at 6:30 
p.m. after supper; return will be 
about 6:30 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 3.
suitable campus look. 9. Individ
uality in her use of colors, ac
cessories. 10. Appropriate look 
for off campus occasions. The 
young woman who best meets 
these qualifications will compete 
with best dressed winners from 
hundreds of colleges in the United 
States and Canada for a place in 
the Top Ten listing.
In a statement about the con
test, Kathleen Aston Casey, Editor-in-Chief of GLAMOUR, said 
It is our hope to show that be
ing well - dressed and well - 
groomed is one part of a young 
womans education and one that 
she should learn early in life. 
These attributes are not a ques
tion of money or an extensive 
interest in ones appearance. Good 
looks, good grooming and a good 
mind are all goals for which any 
, young woman can reach.
Photographs of our winner in 
a campus outfit, a daytime oft 
campus outfit and a party dress 
and the official entry form will 
(continued on page 3)
G.I.G.I.F.
Next semester, the old T.G.I.F, 
dance will be replaced by a newer 
and better Friday afternooa 
dance. Even the name has been 
changed to G.I.GJ.F. (Gee I*a 
Glad Its Friday). The first in th 
new series of G.I.GJ.F. (pro
nounced the way it looks) will 
be on February 8. Sonny and th 
Premiers will perform, and if th 
turnout is good, there will be 
more shows of this type.
CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 14 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1963
Semester Registration 
Lasts 2 Days, Feb.4-5
Registration for the Spring Semester 1963 will be held 
on Monday and Tuesday, February 4 and 5, from 8:30 A.M, 
until 4:00 P.M. both days. Students will register according 
to the following schedule:
1. All Students residing in the Pittsburgh district will
register on Monday, February 4.
2. All others will register on Tuesday, February 5. 
Penalty for late registration is $10.00 for the first day;
$5.00 additional for the second day; and additional $1.00 per 
day thereafter up to $20.00 maximum.
Registration of day students for the Spring Semester
will be similar to that of last 
Registrars Office will be located 
in areas* adjacent to each depart
ment. All the necessary steps to 
complete academic registration 
will be performed by the repre
sentatives. However, the payment 
of fees for those students who 
have not prepaid will be made in 
the Gymnasium.
The steps to be accomplished 
are as follows:
1. All students except Freshmen in 
MMCC, E&S, and Industrial 
Management report to depart
ment offices for approved sched
ules (four copies for all stu
dents) and Registration Packet.
a. E&S and Industrial Manage
ment Freshmen report to 
Dean Wells in Sea if e Hal] 
Lobby.
b. MMCC Freshmen report to 
Miss Lloyd, M. M. 107.
2. Fill out all copies of schedule 
and the Registrars Card.
3 Secure signatures on all copies 
of schedule cards.
4. Go to the checkout desk which 
Will be located in your depart
mental or designated area. At 
this point, registration will be 
completed for prepaid students.
5. Proceed to Cashier in Gymna
sium to pay fee, dormitory or 
other charges and get a receipt.
6. All graduate students will make 
financial settlement during the 
period February 18, 19, 20, from 
9:00 a.m. to 3:20 p.m.
7. The Financial Aid Office will be 
located in A. H. 150. Scholar
ship holders should stop at this 
office before proceeding to the 
Gymnasium. Also, students who
year. Representatives of the;------------------------------------------------------+
require short-term notes should 
arrange for them through this 
office before proceeding to the 
Gymnasium.
A graduation fee of $10.00 is 
charged to every candidate for a 
degree and is payable at registra
tion, February 4 and 5, for Com
mencement on June 10, 1963.
Tech Stresses 
Early Payment
Each year Carnegie Institute of 
Technology encourages students 
to participate in a pre-payment 
plan which enables the student 
to settle his financial arrange
ments for the following semester 
in advance of registration.
The advantages of pre-payment 
are several: it permits the stu
dent to receive unhurried coun
seling at the offices of the Regis
trar and the Cashier; to make use 
of the facilities of the Financial 
Aid Office; and to work out with 
his parents in advance of the 
pressure of registration day a 
sound arrangement for payment 
of his tuition, room and board 
charges. In addition, of course 
participation in prepayment per
mits the student to avoid waiting 
in the Cashiers line during 
registration. We should like to 
encourage you to consider this 
method of payment of fees. Schol
arship students are especially 
(continued on page 2)
Internation Club. Carnegie Ceilidh Schedule 
Columbian Folksingers To Entertain Techites
Panhellenic 
Council Plans 
Informal Rush
The International Club and the 
Carnegie Ceilidh will sponsor the 
Columbian Folksingers on Feb
ruary 8 at 8:30. The singers will 
appear in the Skibo ballroom.
Several years ago, executives 
of Acerios Paz des Rio, a steel 
plant in Boyaca, Columbia, de
cided to enliven the plants so
cial calendar by exploiting the 
musical talents of its labor force. 
Each division of the plant was 
invited to enter a conjunto. The 
response to this invitation was 
so enthusiastic that the contest 
now takes several months. Each 
of the groups that enters the 
contest specializes in. some type 
of Columbian folkmusic.
Both of the contests that have 
been held were won by a group 
called Los Nortenos (The 
Northerners).
All five men in the conjunto 
have been playing their chosen 
instruments for many years, but 
they have been playing together 
as a group for only two years 
Their names are: Leopoldo
The "Los Norteos," the Colombian folk singing group that 
will be featured on February 8 at Skibo.
Jaimes, Lius E. Baron Mojica, 
Mario Diaz Carez, Hernando Tel
lez (director), and Octavio Mo
jica.
The visit of Los Nortenos has 
been made possible by the Kop'lf>evs Company and Aceras Paz
del Rio and the active interest 
of Mr. Larry Heller of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and Maes
tro Luis Antonio Escobar, Co
lumbian composer and former 
Tech economics instructor, Donald 
Fink.
On Sunday, February 10, 1963, 
from 1:15 to 4:30 p.m., the Car
negie Tech sororities will hold 
their final rushing event of the 
school year, the Meet the Sorori
ties Open House. This informal 
winter rush has been planned in 
order that all girls who did not 
complete or go through fall rush 
may have an opportunity to meet 
the various sororities and to 
pledge the group of their choice. 
Panhellenic Rush Statistics show 
that one-fifth of all women who 
signed up for fall rush were 
dropped because they did not 
meet the minimum grade require
ments necessary for pledging; this 
rush will also give those girls an 
opportunity to join sororities if 
their final semester grades are 
1.75 or above.
In order to attend the Open 
House, all women who are inter
ested are asked to sign a list in 
the Dean of Womens office on 
February 7 and 8. Open House 
will begin at 1:15 p.m. in the 
Morewood Recreation Room, 
where the guests will be divided 
into seven groups. They will then 
spend twenty minutes with each 
of the seven sororities, meeting 
the members and learning about 
the national organizations to 
which they belong. Beginning at 
10:30 p.m. on Sunday night, the 
sororities will offer open bids to 
those girls who attended the Open 
House who met the eligibilit yrequirements. The entire winter 
rush will take three hours and 
fifteen minutes. There will be no 
silence period and no preferential 
bidding.
Despite rumors to the contrary, 
all of the sororities have room for 
new pledges and are looking for
ward to filling the spaces soon. 
Any girl who has not gone 
through rush, or who decided 
against pledging first semester, is 
urged to attend Open House and 
meet the sororities.

---------------------------------------------------

Fare 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. January 16, 1963
Guest Singers, Regulars Present 
Annual Concert Friday NightJ
As 9:30 this Friday evening in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, 
the Carnegie Ceilidh will present its annual concert. The 
program will feature several performers, some familiar to 
regular Ceilidh audiences and others who have never appear
ed at the weekly Friday gatherings. Among them are Myra 
Elmers Vivian Richman, Peter Hoover, and Mac Martin and 
the Dixie Travelers. The concert will emphasize music o'i
the Southern Appalachian tradi-^~~ '   ---------------------**
tion, but incursions of music from j rri -w  
other traditions art, possible and j Jj 
even likely.
a BULLETIN M BOARD
Mrs. Elmers, who made a brief ! 
appearance in last years concert, 
is a native of North Carolina. She : 
sings the songs of that region, 
many of which she learned in 
childhood, while accompanying 
herself on the dulcimer.
Vivian Richman is well known 
to Pittsburgh audiences through 
her appearances at the annual 
Folk Festivals. Her repertoire ob
serves no international boundaries.
Peter Hoover, instrumentalist, 
collector, and student of geology 
and his fellow man, appears regu
larly at the Ceilidh to play banjo, 
guitar, mandolin, fiddle, autoharp 
r harmonica. Through frequent 
trips to the Southeast he has built 
up an extensive knowledge of 
mountain music, as well as be
coming an honorary citizen of 
Fancy Gap, Virginia and the 
worlds greatest living expert on 
the music of Clovest Crotts.
The Dixie Travelers play music 
in the relatively modern bluegrass style. They performed regu
larly at the Circus Bar in East 
Liberty until its recent unfortu
nate demolition.
The annual concert is the Ceil
idhs only fund-raising activity. 
Tickets are available at the door. 
The price of admission will be 
seventy-five cents.
Group Flight 
To Europe
A group flight is being organ
ized for Carnegie Tech students, 
faculty, and immediate relatives 
who wish to go to Europe this 
summer. The round-trip fare will 
be S310 to London. However, 
hould sufficient students be in
terested, a charter flight will be 
organized in which case the fare 
will be reduced to about $275. 
The departure date will be about 
June 14, and the return date will 
be scheduled for the last week in 
August or the first week in Sep
tember, according to the pre
ference of the majority of mem
bers.
The flight is being organized by 
Harry Norris, Richard Niehaus, 
and Tho/nas Stephen, all 
of GSIA, It is hoped to schedule 
some meetings in February at 
which European students will 
speak, and questions will be an
swered. Those interested are in
vited to write to Carnegie Flight, 
Box 235, CIT, without delay, or 
to phone 682-9786 or 682-8492.
Lecture
Professor Douglas Wilde cf the 
! Universit7 of Texas will speak on 
j Optimization in Design on Wed
nesday, January 23, at 4:00 P.M. 
i in the Scaife Lecture Hall. Mem
bers of the faculty and students 
! are cordially invited to attend.
Coffee will be served at 3:45 
P.M. in the Scaife Hall Lobby.
Liberal Club
Liberal Club Wed.  6:00  
Skibo-party room.
| Students for Liberal Thought 
and Action have a special meet
ing with Russ Nixon, manager 
of the national guardian, for an 
j open discussion of progressive 
ideas. All people interested are 
invited.
English Discussion
The English Discussion Group 
will again hold its informal 
meetings in the Spring Semes
ter. The meetings, open to all 
interested students on the C.I.T. 
campus, will be: March 13, dis
cussion on Kerouack; April 8, dis
cussion on Faulkner; May 6, dis
cussion on Brecht.
Baha'i
Bahai Club of University of 
Pittsburgh is sponsoring a ser
vice at Heinz Chapel at 3 p.m. 
Sunday, January 20, in obserClassified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TyPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
vance of World Relegion Day. 
Selection of scriptures and a 
prayer from each of the major 
religions will be read. Selection 
of music from each religion will 
also be played. Religions repre
sented will be: Hindu, Judaeism, 
Zoroastrian, Buddhist, Christian
ity, Moslem and Bahai world 
faith.
Prepayment
(continued, from page 1) 
urged to take advantage of this 
pre-payment plan. All students 
expect Graduate and Special Stu
dents are eligible for pre-payment 
f fees for the Spring Semester 
1962-1963. The dates during which 
pre-payment may be made are 
January 14 through January 29; 
students who wish to participate 
ii pre-payment should report 
with their checks or money orders 
to the Registrars Office, A. H. 160, 
one one of these days from 9:00 
A.M. to 12:00 noon and 1:00 P.M. 
to 3:20 P.M.
WS Max Sklman
(Author of I iras a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
CALPURNIA, HERE I COME
Now, as the college year approaches its mid-point, one fact 
emerges clearly: you are all going to flunk everything.
There are two things you can do about it. First, you can 
marry money. (I dont mean you marry the money itself; I 
mean you marry a person who has, money. Weddings between 
people and currency have not been legal anywhere in the United 
States since the Smoot-Hawley Act. Marlboro Cigarettes, on 
the other hand, are legal everywhere and are, indeed, smoked 
with great pleasure and enthusiasm in all fifty states of the 
Union. I bring up Marlboro Cigarettes because this column is 
sponsored by the makers of Marlboro, and the}' are inclined to 
brood if I omit to mention their product.)
But I digress. I was saying you can marry money but, of 
course, you will not because you are a high-minded, cleanHving, pure-hearted, freckle-faced American kid. Therefore, to 
keep from flunking, you must try the second method: 3-011 must 
learn how to take lecture notes.
According to a recent survey, 123.6% of American under
graduates do not know the proper way to take lecture notes. To 
illustrate this shocking statistic, let us suppose you are taking 
a course in history. Let us further suppose the lecturer is lec
turing on the ruling houses of England. You listen intently. You 
write diligently in your notebook, making a topic outline as you 
have been taught. Like this;
I. House of Plantagenet.
II. House of Lancaster.
III. House of York.
Then you stop. You put aside your pen. You blink back a 
tear, for you cannot go on. Oh, yes, you know very well that the 
next ruling house is the House of Tudor. The trouble is you 
dont know the Roman numeral that comes after III.
(It may, incidentally, be of some historical interest to point 
out that Americans are not the only people who dont know 
Roman numerals. The Romans didnt know them themselves. 
I suppose they could tell you how much V or X were or like 
that, but when it came to real cuties like LXI or MMC, they 
just flang away their styluses and went downtown to have a 
bath and take in a circus and maybe stab Caesar a few times.
(You may wonder why Rome stuck with these ridiculous 
numerals when the Arabs had such a nice, simple system. Well 
sir, the fact is that the Emperor Vespasian tried like crazy to 
buy the Arabic numerals from Suleiman the Magnificent, but 
Suleiman wouldnt do businessnot even when Vespasian 
raised his bid to 100,000 gold piastres, plus he offered to throw 
in the Colosseum, the Appian Way, and Charlton Heston.
(So Rome stuck with Roman numeralsto its sorrow, as it 
turned out. One day in the Forum, Cicero and Pliny got to 
arguing about how much is CDL times MVIX. Well sir, pretty 
soon everyone in town came around to join the hassle. In ail 
the excitement, nobody remembered to lock the north gate and 
 wham!before you could say peeca fortiter, in rushed the 
Goths, the Visigoths, and the Green Bay Packers!)
Well sir, thats the way the empire crumbles, and I digress. 
Lets get back to lecture notes. Lets also say a word about 
Marlboro Cigarettes. The makers would be so pleased! And is 
it not fitting that we should please these honest tobacconists 
these fine men, fond of square dancing, water sports, protein, 
and tattoosthese tireless perfectionists who spend all of their 
days trying to please ue searching everywhere for the best of 
all possible tobaccos, aging them with patience, blending them 
witn tender, loving care? Marlboros are available in soft pack 
and flip top box. You will find XX cigarettes in each package.
C 1963 Shulmia* * *
Marlborum amo, Tom Marlborum uniat, Dick Marlborum 
amat, Harry Marlborum amat, June Marlborum amat, 
Joan Marlborum amat, Jean Marlborum amat, Jane Marl
borum amat, quique Marlborum amantet Marlborum 
quoque amabiti*,
It can cost everything you have, or nothing. But chances are pretty good 
that when you sign your name, its often on a check, and probably costs 
you at least a dime. Figure the number of checks you write, multiply by 
10 cents, and thats how much you can save with a Union National Bank 
free personal checking account. Just maintain a $200 balance and all 
your personal checks are completely free. No service charge. No mainte
nance charge. No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Its a 
good idea, and a lot of people are already taking advantage of it. Why not 
you? Stop in and see us.
4Fo rthet svnhetvy avtG eL AhnnMOURgF
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesd7, January 1C. 19SS  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fas* *
Classrooms Abroad Program 
Plans Group Study In 11 Cities
Eleven groups, each containing 
twenty to thirty American college 
students, will form seminars in 
various European cities next sum
mer to study the language, cul
ture and civilization of these 
countries during a nine-week stay. 
Students will live in one of the 
following cities: Berlin, Munich, 
or Tubingen in Germany; Vienna, 
Austria; Bensancon, Grenoble, or 
Pau in France; Iseuchatel in 
Switzerland; Maarid or Santander 
in Spain, and Florence, Italy.
Graded classes in small sections 
of six to ten students, each under 
the supervision of American and 
native professors, will deal with 
the reading of classical and mod
ern texts, the daily press, con
temporary problems, conversation 
and composition, pronunciation 
and grammar. Students will also 
hear lectures on history and liter
ature. They will have full audit
ing privileges at the university in 
each of the selected towns and 
cities and will participate in iill 
academic and social activities 
with German, Austrian, French, 
Swiss, Spanish and Italian stu
dents.
Members of Classrooms Abroad 
will live with private families in 
each city, eat many of their meals 
with their hosts and share the ac
tivities of their sons and daugh
ters. They will have ample oppor
tunities to meet young people 
from student, religious, and politi
cal organizations. Regular attend
ance at theatres, concerts, and 
movies as well as visits to mu
seums, libraries, factories, youth 
organizations, and other points of 
interest are included in the pro
gram. Each group will follow its 
seven-week stay in a city or town 
with an optional two-week tour 
of German, French, Spanish, or 
Italian areas. Since most programs 
end in mid-August, participants 
have a chance to remain in 
Europe for private travel after the 
program.
We have found through many 
years of experience that it is quite
Fine Arts Exhibits 
Private Collections 
In Pittsburgh Area
The Department of Fine Arts of 
Carnegie Institute announces an 
exhibition of Art since 1900: 
Privately Owned in the Pitts
burgh Area which opened Fri
day, January 11, 1963 in the Third 
Floor Galleries. The exhibit, con
tinuing through February 10, in
cludes one hundred sixty-nine 
works of art selected under the 
auspices of the Womens Com
mittee. It points up that there has 
been extensive collecting in the 
greater Pittsburgh area, not mere
ly from Pittsburgh Internationals, 
but thruogh continuous purchas
ing from other sources as well.
Among the 117 artists and 26 
sculptors represented are Josef 
Albers, Karel Appel, Alexander 
Colder, Marc Chagall, Salvador 
Dali, Richard Diebenkorn, Raoul 
Dufy, Max Ernst, Jean Louis Forain, Lyonel Feininger, Alberto 
Giancometti, George Grosz. John 
Kane, Paul Klee, George Kolbe, 
Giorgio Morandi, Max Pechstein, 
Carl-Henning Pedersen, Auguste 
Rodin, David Smith, and Mark 
Tobey.
possible, even if you dont know 
a word of the language, to learn 
more than a years worth of col
lege German, French, Spanish, or! 
Italian in the course of a sum
mer, said Dr. Rirschbach, Direc
tor of Classrooms Abroad, pro
vided that we get serious and ma
ture students who are willing to 
mix business with pleasure. Dr. 
Hirschbach, who also heads the 
German-language groups, teaches 
at the University of Minnesota. 
The French and Spanish groups 
will be directed by John K. Simon 
and Robert E. Kelsey, members of 
the Romance Languages Depart
ment at Yale. The Italian group 
will be led by Charles Affron of 
Brandeis University. Classrooms 
Abroad, now in its seventh year, 
has grown from eleven students in 
1956 to an anticipated three hun
dred in 1963. Its former students 
represent some two hundred 
American colleges.
Full information can be obtain
ed by writing to Classrooms 
Abroad, Box 4171, University Sta
tion, Minneapolis 14, Minnesota.
Phi Kappa Phi 
Calls Members
Phi Kappa Phi, national scho
lastic honorary, has announced the 
results of its 1962 fall elections. 
Each fall the honorary calls ten 
percent of the top twelve percent 
of the senior class of each col
lege. The initation of the new 
members will take place on Jan
uary 15, at 5:30 p.m. in Skibos 
Wherret Lounge, followed by din
ner at 6:00 p.m. in the staff Din
ing Room. At 7:00, Dr. R. B. Cor
bin, Head of Techs Chemistry 
Department, will present an Ad
dress on Qualities of the Pro
ductive Professional. The Ad
dress will be held in the Staff 
Dining Room and is open to the 
entire campus.
Techs chapter of Phi Kappa 
Phi has, at present, about 150 
members, composed of under
graduates, faculty and graduate 
students.
The purpose of the honorary is 
to recognize and encourage high 
performance in scholastic man
ners.
The following seniors will be 
initiated:
From the College of Engineering 
and Science: James N. Breckner, 
Owen Cecil, William Evanco, 
Thomas B. Garrett, Frank S. 
Jones, Charles W. Koman. Ray
mond Kubalak, James H. Morris, 
Paul Ossip, Elliott Philofsky, Rob
ert E. Revay, Paul C. Rizzo, Rob
ert Rosenberg, Judith Suhay, A. 
Wayne Tamerelli, Janet L. Wil
liamson.
From the College of Fine Arts: 
Ralph Bluhm, Dorothy Gantos, 
Judith Geder, Raymond Gindroz, 
Fred Gottemoeller, Elaine Hinkel, 
Gordon Ketterer, Susan Priestley, 
James Stivanson.
From Margaret Morrison: Elaine 
Grumer, Sandra Lancaster, Elaine 
Vezzani, Marilyn Whitaker.
From Industrial Management: 
Bruce Becker, Gordon Ewald.
From Printing Management: 
Clinton Anglin, Allen Kullen.
This May. the top five per cent 
j of the junior class of each college
 will also be initiated.
SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
NewOut  leokACa
SHOES
Women
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
Men
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Kiltie Band, 46 Yrs. In Existence, 
Schedules 1963 Concert For Feb.
The
A band had been in existence, 
at Carnegie Tech since 1910, but 
it wasnt until Red Trent, drum 
major, conveived the idea of 
wearing kilts and a bearskin 
shako in 1917 that the Kiltie Band 
really came into being. He was 
the only member so dressed and 
the rest of the band appeared in 
regulation blue uniforms.
After the idea to costume the 
entire band in kilts was approved 
in 1921, funds for this purpose
Kiltie Band in a practice session.
were raised by a special commiti pipers were hired to march with
tee of the CIT Student Council. 
The first fifty-six uniforms, used 
for over a quarter of a century, 
were purchased for $3000 raised 
by students, the athletic associa
tion and alumni groups in 1921- 
22. The first appearance of the 
Kiltie Band in full uniform took 
place on November 25, 1922 at the 
Tech-Notre Dame football game.
In 1922, four professional bagthe band. These players were re
placed by a studentpipe corps or
ganized in 1941 when eight pipes 
were donated by Mrs. Robert EL 
Doherty, wife of the late presi
dent of Tech.
On Friday; February 15, stu
dents will have the opportunity 
to see and hear the 1963 Kiltie 
Band perform at Carnegie Music 
Hall.
Panhel Hunts 
Best Dressed
(continued, from page 1) 
be sent to GLAMOUR by March 
4, 1963 for the national judging. 
The magazine will select a group 
of semi-finalists and from these 
the Top Ten will be chosen. 
The rest of the semi-finalists will 
be named honorable mention win
ners.
The young women who are 
named GLAMOURS 1963 Ten 
Best Dressed College Girls in 
America will be photographed 
in the spring for the annual Au
gust College Issue and will be 
flown to New York in June via 
American Airlines for a visit as 
the guests of the magazine. The 
honorable mention winners will 
be featured in a fall issue of 
GLAMOUR.
Entries for this contest should 
be submitted by February 10, 
1963 to either Contest Chairman 
Lynn Pasternak (MG-7B4) or 
Panhel President Elaine Hinkel 
(MG-2E42). Names may be sub
mitted by an individual or by 
a group before deadline. The 
contest will be judged on the 
campus by qualified student lead
ers and representatives of the 
Faculty and Administration on 
dates to be announced in the near 
future.
Pro/. Hazard Educates Indians
Leland Hazard, lecturer at
Tech, is going on a six-week in
dustrial education mission in
India. He will serve as consultant 
to the Ford Foundation.
Mr. Hazard, director-consultant 
of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. 
and lecturer in industrial admini
stration and law at Tech, will
leave Friday for New Delhi.
He is expected to return here in 
late February.
Mr. Hazard joins two Pittsburgh 
redevelopment experts who have 
been assigned to the Ford Founda
tion to assist community renewal 
; in India.
Engineering Trainees $6,000
Night school students with over 
two years in engineering.
MECHANICAL OR ENGINEERING
Call
with large Pittsburgh corporation. 
Supplemental educational benefits
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
TONY'S BARBER SHOPt ?
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
. nd ihDrDns TRPTRr BhRBTRS
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
flicIC, I Out,
TONITE AT THE
Starting Today, Jan. I<> 
Thurs., Fri.. Sat. 
TASTE OF HONEY
also .
A VIEW FROM 
THE BRIDGE
Starting Sun., Jan. SO 
Mon., Tues .
Herbert Loni 
Heather Sears 
THE PHANTOM 
OF THE OPERA 
also
NIGHT CREATURES
a'so
BLACK SUNDAY
Starting Jan. U 
4 davs onlr
JUDGMENT AT 
NUREMBERG
?????
:???
Enter the C C C
GATE TO FASHION
You are cordially invited 
to browse around in 
Oakland's newest Sportswear 
and Casual Wear Specialty Shop
 featuring  
modern fashions for milady, 
name brand slacks. shorts, blouses, 
knitwear, dresses and accessories 
at moderate prices.
OPENING DATE: Feb. 1st
Free souvenirs during opening week
416 S. Craig St. Oakland
(Between Forbes and Fifth)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 16, 1963
Editorial
Conformity Versus Individuality
The pros and cons of the group versus the 
individual have been debated on these pages 
intermittently all year. Not too long ago a 
program pertinent to this question was pre
sented on television called simply Conform
ity. Its message should have been striking 
to all who saw it. The program was directed 
primarily to a critical examination of one 
aspect of the American way of life. Situa
tions were used to illustrate the growing 
tendency of the individual and the family to 
subordinate itself to the group. For instance, 
the family buys on credit because everyone 
does, families live in the same types of com
munities and houses, parents set their teenagers curfew by others standards, popular
ity becomes more important than good 
grades, etc.
Readers have discussed similar group ten
dencies here at Tech. The situations are in 
most respects analagous. Perhaps then the 
applicable to the other. Conformity said 
solution suggested for one would be equally 
simply that each person live and act as he 
truly believes, so long as he harms no one.
This philosophy is, in fact, one of the reasons 
that America has grown strong. Nothing is 
to be lost by acting differently than ones 
neighbor. On the other hand, it would not be 
best if everyone revolted to become a so call
ed individualist.
Many of us would state our personal phil
osophy of life much the same way if asked 
to do so. Yet, in everyday practice we fre
quently fall behind our standards. We lend 
our support to a cause on the basis of emo
tion and not rational thought. To this end 
some people declare themselves ardent in
dividualists because they expect some special 
distinction, while inwardly they may very 
well agree with the majority. Similarly there 
those timid souls who will not support a 
minority view because they fear ridicule.
The true individualist is the man who is 
true to himself. He does not lend his support 
or condemnation without first having convic
tion. He is to be admired and respected no 
matter what his belief. Conformity then 
loses all meaning and no problem remains 
to be solved.
Readers Write
New Outlook I Coming Exams
j Bring CommentRebirth
By Stephen T. Miller
The symbol of the new year has become a cherubic babe 
entering with a look of happy expectation upon his face. 
Perhaps this should be changed to a squaling brat, then it 
could be doubly symbolic. It could represent both the new 
year and the new congress.
The eighty-eighth congress has just begun and its prom
ise is truly staggering. Never have so few had so much 
potential with such a low proability of success. There is no 
reason to condemn this congress any more than the last, I 
suppose, but none the less something should be said some
time. Year after year our leaders face the same potential and 
year after year they manage to do less than nothing and 
simply create more confusion.
We have watched the surge of the New Frontier become 
a slow crawl and now it is hard to discern if it is nothing at 
all legislatively. It is unfortunate that all the new ideas 
and concepts have bogged down in a morass of patronage, 
and logrolling. Each representative is and expert in his own 
field. TTiat field being the desires of his constituents. Even if 
they did elect him is it correct for him to place this ever so 
small minority before the good at the nation as a whole?
During his session we will observe what could well be 
the epitome of this procedure. Before congress today there 
are two separate and yet joined areas of legislation. One is 
for tax reform and the other for a tax cut. Both of these are 
distinctly needed by our turbulant economy. And yet it 
seems that sectionalism will permit us to ask the latter blit 
not the former. The true misfortune is this situation being 
that the latter is the more clearly needed.
If we removed the confusion from our tax laws and 
closed some of the loopholes we could easily take in another 
ten billion dollars in tax revenue. Then a tax cut could be 
effective. However, most of these loopholes are highly sec
tional. One represents oilmen, another cattlemen, and a third 
eastern real estate. Thus every senator and representative 
will surely have something to bargain over and for. Each 
will give into the other until in the end every loophole will 
still exist and every congressman will be guaranteed his 
seat for another term. Its a shame that each of the new sen
ators (12) and representatives (65) will worry first about 
re-election and second about serving the needs of the nation 
they are representative of.
What can we do about it? Nothing! The change must 
come about through our representatives themselves so it 
likely to? Are our leaders that altruistic? Can they for once 
see th forest instead of their own pine tree? Probably not. 
Instead we will have our tax cut, which in the long run will 
probably be useless, while the legislation of true worth will 
be ignored. Unforunate, but typically American. Under no 
other system could so few do so much for so few, yet this 
is our system. Change is needed in our tax system but not 
half so much as it is needed in the basic ideals of representa
tive government.
Editor, The. Tartan:
And it came to pass early in 
the morning of the last day of 
the semester there arose a mul
titude smiting their books and 
wailing. And there was such 
weeping and gnashing of teeth, 
for the day of judgement was at 
hand and they were sor~ afraid. - 
For they had left undone those 
things which they ought to have 
done, and they had done those 
things which they ought not to 
have done, and there was no 
help for them now.
And there were many abiding 
in their rooms who had kept 
watch over their books all night, 
but it availth them not. But some 
there were who arose peacefully 
from their rest, for tiny had pre
pared for themselves the way, 
and made straight the path of 
knowledge. And there were the 
wise who were known to some 
as the burners of the midnight 
oil, but by others they were 
known as curve distorters.
And the multitude arose and 
ate a hearty breakfast; and they 
came into the appointed place, 
and they sat themselves trembl
ing down, and their hearts were 
heavy within them. And they 
came to pass, but some, to pass 
out.
And some of them repented of 
their riotous living and be
moaned their fate. But they had 
not a probability. And at least 
there came among themthat 
one known as the Instructor 
he of the knowing lookand 
this one passed papers among 
them, and retired gracefully to 
a distance.
And many and varied were 
the answers that were written 
for some teaching had fallen on 
fertile minds, others had fallen 
on fallow, while some had fallen 
flat. And there were some who 
figured for an hour and some who 
figured for two. Some turned sor
rowful and some are still figur
ing. And when they had finished, 
they gathered up their belong
ings and went quickly and
(continued on page 5)
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Federal Aid 
To Education
Congress will begin debating legislation on federal aid 
to education soon  as it has done nearly every session for 
the past decade. However up to this time no comprehensive 
bill has been passed. It must be assumed then that the 
majority of the electorate is either indifferent or opposed to 
such legislation or by this time Congress would have been 
forced to act. But why this opposition?
An argument against federal aid to education is that if 
aid is offered to any institution (public or private), the gov
ernment will institute checks and controls to see that the 
aid is being used in a proper manner; perhaps in time even 
the specific uses to which this aid can be put will be speci
fied. However, it is not true that the same type of controls 
are being placed on educational institutions by states? It 
is a spurious argument to say that more controls will b<e 
placed on local schools by a federal commission; the controls 
exist today although a national polity (as opposed to a state 
one) will (and should in the authors opinion) impose higher 
standards; that is a school in Georgia will be expected to 
give its students an education approximately equal to one 
students in New York will be getting since aid will be equal 
to both. Since federal aid will be supplementing existing 
funds, it will be possible to raise not only the lower school 
districts standards, but even the standards of districts that 
today are giving students a supposedly good education. 
Federal control of education is a quality to be sought, not 
fought.
Also, funds can be made available to private institutions 
of higher learning to increase their capacities and quality 
of education. This would necessitate having new controls 
over a previously free sector of American life it is true. 
However, each institution would have a choice of whether 
to accept funds for money. This policy is simply one of de
manding value returned for payments made, and will help 
the public by improving opportunities for education with
out affecting any colleges present perogatives.
Certain groups oppose aid to education to protect 
special interests  such as segregation. These groups can 
not be won over to support of federal aid, so if a bill is to 
be passed, it must enjoy bipartison support from the rest 
of Congress. This will occur only if public opinion backs 
such legislation. College students are directly affected (and 
their children will be even more) and should have a keen 
interest in seeing the legislation passed.
The present situation is not intolerable, but in my 
opinion, anything (within reason and without harm to other 
ideas and institutions) done to improved the quality and 
quantity of learning offered to the citizens of the United 
States will rebound to the common good, and is well worth 
the expense. It is time Congress acted.
'CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CANNEOIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo. Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief .....................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor .............................. Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ..........................................._. Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ..........................................Miron Straf
Wews Editor ............................................. Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor.................................Margie Park
Features Editor ........................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ...............................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager..............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor.........................................  Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum. Colin Jones. Margie Fark, Henry Henderson. 
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf, and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Fritz Klinke, Al Pollock, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Drew 
Lippay, Marion Mulligan, Ann Carten, Holly Lawerence. '
News Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore, Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky, Jaye Lapidus. Ellie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois 
Elinoff, Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Marty Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp, Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick, Ken Kantrowitz.
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson, George Kail and Jay Priest
Feature* Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer, Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.
Copy Staff: Clarita Dzatko, Jan Wurmb, Nancy Green, Ginny Uliss, Nancy 
Cameron
Photography: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 16, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
This Week in Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall  8:30 p.m. __
Peter, Paul and Mary.
Carnegie Music Hall  8:30 p.m.  Jose Greca and 
his Spanish Dancers.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17
Film Arts  The Bicycle Thief (Italy 1949)
Directed by Vitorio de Sica 
Syria Mosque  The First Family with Vaughn 
Meader and company. Shows at 7:00 p.m. and 9:30. 
CIT Music Dept.  Works of Alexei Haieff, visiting 
professor of composition will be performed at the 
Music Dept, of Convocation  12:30 p.m.  Fine Arts.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 18
Carnegie Ceilidh annual concert  8:30 p.m.  
Wherrett Room, Skibo.
&IDAY, JANUARY 18 and SUNDAY, JANUARY 20
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra with Gina Bachauer, 
pianist  Hayden . . . Symphony No. 97 in C Major; 
Mozart . . . Piano Concert in G Major and 
Beethoven . . . Symphony ..o. 8 in F Major.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19
Composers Forum  Music of Alexei Haieff, Carnegie 
Music Hall. Music Dept. Chorus Concert  8:30 p.m.  
Carnegie Music Hall.
RIDAY, FEBRUARY 8
Columbian Folk Singing Group  Skibo Ballroom  
8:30 p.m.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Carnegie Institute  Paintings by Lois Kaufman;
Third Floor Gallery K Art Since 1900; Third Floor 
Galleries Old Master Prints from the Collection; 
Galleries E and F, Second Floor.
CIT  Cock-a-Doodle-Dandy by Sean OCasey,
 directed by Lewis Palter and produced by the
Drama Dept. Carnegie Theatre, CFA, 8:15 p.m., Jan. 
12-22  Hewlett Gallery  Photography by Morley 
Markson
Playhouse  Bye Bye Birdie Craft Avenue Theatre  
First Night Theatre pstairs  The Fantasticks 
Hamlet Street Theatre (opens Jan. 26).
Penn  The Lion William Holden, Capucine 
Stanley  Gypsy Rosalind Russell, Natalie Wood. 
Fulton  Longest Day
Nixon  Mutiny On the Bounty Marlon Brando 
far Guild  Phaedra Melina Mercouri, Anthony Perkins 
Squirrel Hill  Billy Budd Robert Ryan, Peter Ustinov 
Shadyside  Carry On Teacher
KILTIE BAND CONCERT  Friday, Feb. 15  8:15 
Carnegie Hall.
Porter Garnett 
Graphics Gallery 
Officially Opens
Carnegie officially opened its 
new Porter Garnett Graphic Aits 
Gallery to the public on January 
14. Gallery hours will be 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. weekdays, 9 a.m. to noon 
Saturdays, closed Sundays. The 
Gallery is located on the third 
floor of the Administration Build
ing. It is the third gallery on cam^US.
rThe opening exhibit shows 
works of Porter Garnett and his 
students. Garnett was one of the 
best-known typographers of his 
day. From 1922 to 1935 he directed 
Carnegie Techs Laboratory Press, 
which was part of the first depart
ment of fine printing to be esta
blished in an American university. 
Earlier this year Carnegie Tech 
re-established a fine press in the 
department of graphic arts, known 
^Ts the New Laboratory Press, and 
directed by Jack Werner Stauffacher, a member of Techs 
graphic arts faculty and an 
award-winning book designer.
The exhibit will close February
2.
Bianca Makes 
Pgh. Debut
Miss Ginetta La Bianca, ac
claimed as the operatic version 
of Gina Lollobrigida, will make 
her Pittsburgh Opera debut Jan
uary 24 and 26 at Syria Mosque. 
She will sing the role of Adina 
in Donizettis comic opera, LElisir dAmore.
Miss Bianca, whose voice has 
been compared with Jenny Linds, 
appears with Metropolitan Op
era stars Ferruccio Tagliavini 
and Salvatore Baccaloni, and 
Ercole Bertolino and Judy Mc
Nutt.
Dr. Richard Karp will conduct 
the Pittsburgh Symphony, and 
the Mets Desire Defrere is stage 
director. Tickets are available at 
Hornes, Gimbles, the University 
Book Center, and the Pittsburgh 
Opera office, GRant 1-2974. Cur 
tain time is 8:15 p.m.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
GET PROFESSIONAL SERVICE 
For Your Fine Clothes 
Be smart  . 
Look your best always.
And get ARN discount too !
Ask about our Bulk Rates - Poundage Cleaning
FINE SHIRT AND LAUNDRY SERVICE
CRANDALL - McKENZIE
Cleanthru Dry Cleaners
3935 Forbes Ave. MA. 1-7500
Open 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
in Wherrett Lounge from 1 to 5 
to review prospective cast mem
bers. Miss Ress commmented ex
plicitly, We need singers and 
dancers, Anyone interested in 
trying out for the show is asked 
to appear for auditions and are 
requested to bring their own mu
sic.
At this point, Sue Gronich 
emerged from the conference 
room with these wordsDont 
forget the crew people: We need 
them, we need them! Yes, re
plied Miss Ress, crew members 
are to sign up at the same time 
and place as cast members. We 
DO need them. Despite further 
questioning the group refused to 
comment on any other matters 
pertaining to this years top sec
ret production and they retired 
behind the door of room 54.
TARTAN reporters are situ
ated in strategic points on cam
pus to give its readers any further 
information, as soon as it is re
leased.
Sn S Maintains Top Secret; 
Requests Production Workers
Although S n S still refuses to comment on the major 
intriqus of its activities, TARTAN reporters have managed 
to break through security lines and obtain some exclusive 
information. Mr. Jim DeBlasis, faculty advisor, emerged 
from conference accompanied by Begina Ress to give the 
TARTAN reporter the exclusive release that auditions will 
be held on February 9 and 16.
The S n S board and direc-* ~
tors will be present on those dates
Readers Write Con't.
6 Outstanding 
Tecli Students 
Visit Boeing
Two hundred of the nations 
outstanding technical students at
tended the 1962 Boeing Advanced 
Aircraft, Missile and Space Tech
nology Forum in Seattle on De
cember 20-21.
The students, all of whom were 
seniors or graduate students, were 
from 58 colleges and universities. 
They were chosen for the all
expense trip by department heads 
or faculty committees.
During the two-day forum, the 
students were divided into 17 
special-interest groups. They 
talked with The Boeing Com
panys top technical personnel, 
visited laboratories, inspected fac
tory areas and learned the ap
plication of their educational 
fields in the complex aerospace 
industry.
Attending from the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology were: 
Gary M. Andrew, Mathematics; 
David John Ayres, Civil En
gineering; Dennis Allen Gary, 
Mechanical Engineering; Frank A. 
Morrison, Jr., Mechanical En
gineering; David Allen Thomp
son, Electrical Engineering; and 
Janet Louise Williamson, Mathe
matics.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS
EGISTE SUOUFUGE
HLYni tYederc afepferYfL 
wYll YLnevYnw fL
February 12, 1963
Career positions in research, Devel
opment, Design and Manufactur
ing in areas such as:
Fire Control Systems 
Radar Systems 
Data Processing Equipment 
Inertial Guidance Systems 
Television Systems 
Aircraft Instrumentation 
Navigation Systems 
Precision Components 
Solid State Devices
Arrange an interview through you* 
Placement Officer, or write to Mr. 
James E. Fitzgerald,
United Rircraft
Norwalk, Connecticut
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Writer Expounds 
On Exam Week
(continued from page 4) 
quitely, each to his own domain. 
And as they went each one 
vowed to himself solemnly in this 
manner:
Next semester I shall pass 
But I shall not pass this way 
again.
The G 20Natfl Gallery 
Announces New 
Stamp Contest
The National Gallery of Art, 
Washington, D.C,, will sponsor a 
competition for the design of a 
postage stamp to be issued next 
fall commemorating the 10th an
niversary of the founding of the 
National Academy of Science, 
Pittsburgh Postmaster Edward G. 
Coll announced today.
The competition, first of its 
kind ever conducted by the Na
tional Gallery, is in accord with 
Post Office Department efforts to 
produce postage stamps of high 
artistic merit. Art News, a lead
ing publication in its field, will 
contribute $2,800 for a stamp de
sign based on the theme of Sci
ence.
Postmaster General J. Edward 
Day announced the competition 
during a ceremony in Glousecter, 
Massachusetts in which the Wins
low Homer Breezing Up post
age stamp was introduced. Based 
on the well-known oil that hangs 
in the National Gallery, it is the 
second in the continuing effort 
to represent American fine arts on 
stamps that began last year with 
a stamp that reproduced Frederic 
Remingtons The Smoke Signal.
For the Science stamp compettition, five distinguished Ameri
can artists will be invited to sub
mit designs by a three-man jury 
of fine arts experts. Each artist 
will receive $500, with the win
ner being awarded an additional 
$500.
John Walker, Director of the 
National Gallery, is a member of 
the Citizens Stamp Advisory 
Committee, which assists Post
master General Day in selecting 
subject matter and design of new 
stamps. The committee comprises 
a historian, a representative of the 
fine arts, two representatives from 
the field of commercial
26 Tech Grad 
Receives Honor
Mary Shaw Marohnic has been 
chosen Pittsburghs Artist of the 
Year by the Board of Arts and 
Crafts Center. She is being hon
ored by a Retrospective Exhibit 
in the Center Galleries from Jan
uary 6 through the 27. The Gal
lery hours are from 10:00 a.m. to 
5:00 p.m. daily, and 2:00 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m. Sundays.
A native Pittsburgher, Mrs. 
Marohnic received her B.A. de
gree at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology in 1928. She taught and 
studied later at Carleton College, 
Northfield, Minnesota, and worked 
with Anthony Angarola, Minne
apolis Art Institue. A painter in 
all media, she is especially noted 
for portraiture, decor and murals.
She has taught classes through
out southwestern Pennsylvania for 
womens clubs, Y. W. C. A.s and 
community groups. She is in con*- 
stant demand as a speaker on are 
subjects and has had numerous 
radio and TV appearances.
Lycoming College 
Sponsors Contest
Lycoming College, Williams
port, Pennsylvania, will sponsor 
an Inter-Collegiate Musical Com
petition on May 9 and 10, 1963. 
Any student jazz, rock and roll, 
or vocal group may apply. There 
will be representatives present 
from Capital Records, Inc., Penn 
World Attractions, and others to 
be announced later. Prizes will 
consist of $950 in cash, trophies, 
and other non-cash items. This is 
an excellent opportunity for a col
lege group to become recognized. 
Applications and information may 
be obtained from your director of 
student activities or by writing to 
IMC, Box 35, Lycoming College, 
Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Dead
line for application will be March 
15, 1963.
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack CCC fe Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Norden
Q/tA*nCUrvB1K.LV \Buao i
EXCELLENTCCC wYh mfuLYLg suspnLsn hr gluns yfu f yfue snr!"
 McCALLS Magazine
ROBERT RYAN 
PETER USTINOV
MElVy/tDOUGLAS*tto mT*ooocm+
TERENCE STAMP
TRI-STATE PREMIERE
NOW SHOWINGSQ.HSLL

---------------------------------------------------

PSf S  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. JanMarj 1. 196S
Tech Cagers Try For Fifth Victory; 
They Will Try Again Next Game
Tech's second try for win num
ber five ended in failure, but they 
carried the Washington and Jeff
erson Prexies into overtime be
fore bowing 58-55 last Wednes
day at the Skibo gym.
Jules Borkowski scored the last 
six points in the regulation game 
to send the game into overtime, 
including t w o pressure-ridden 
fouls with 16 second;, remaining. 
However, Tech couldnt cope with 
the floor generalship and foul 
shooting of little Johnny Unice in 
the extra stanza. Unice scored six 
points on fouls and put on a drib
bling act a la Cousy.
Both teams played a ragged 
game, directly the opposite of the 
first game in which Tech won 
67-57. W&J showed signs of a 
long Christmas layoff, and Tech 
appeared to have expended all of 
its floor finesse for the year in 
the Westminster tilt three games 
back.
Tech hit only 30% from the 
field, less than half of its blazing 
63% it shot in the first W&J en
counter. The Prexies werent far 
aheao with 31%. It was the fouls 
that made the difference. W&J hit 
21 for 29, while Tech only con
nected for a feeble 11-20.
Tech opened a 4-0 lead, con
tinued it to 12-9. and then faded 
in the backstretch as W&J's Hayes 
began to hit from outside. W&J 
took the lead with minutes
left in the first half on a glaring 
defensive error by Tech.
Tech bounced back into the lead 
on a long jumper by Frazier, and 
then bounced right back out as
i.h.h. nCCat 
Bell PleyCAt
As the beginning of the second 
semester approaches, the Womens 
Athletic Association would like to 
call the attention of all women 
students to the fact that Basket
ball Club will begin on Tuesday, 
February 12 at 4:30 p.m. in the 
womens gym. The only qualifica
tion necessary for membership are 
an interest in basketball, a desire 
to learn the new rules and to 
learn to play better, and a will
ingness to attend practices each 
Tuesday and Thursday at 4:30 
p.m.
A schedule of games with other 
colleges in the area has already 
been arranged, and the W.A.A. j 
hopes to have the support of the I 
students so that the club will be! 
successful. Anita Cohen has been ^ 
named Basketball Manager, and j 
Barbara Johnson will be her asI 
sistant.
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
W&J got hot and ran out to a 
30-23 halftime lead.
Techs post-halftime play still 
left something to be desired as the 
Prexies held their seven point 
lead. Frazier and Morrison kept 
the Tartans in the game with their 
shooting, and even this was subpar for them.'
With 8 minutes left in the game, 
Tech began their surge. Laird hit 
two straight field goals after neat 
assists by Neidra and Morrison. 
Then Frazier took over and dupli
cated the trick with two long ones 
from the corner.
Borkowski then came on with a 
twisting layup, a long set shot, 
and two fouls to send the game 
into overtime.
Tech couldnt quite keep up its 
momentum, and resorted to fouls 
to get the ball from W&J. The 
Prexies converted, and last min
ute goals by Borowski, Ritchie, 
and Cupps couldnt make up the 
difference.
George Frazier led the Tech
scoring with 14 points, followed 
by Cupps with 11 and Borowski 
for 10. Hayes of W&J led both 
teams with 17 points.
In the preliminary game, the 
Tech JVs made it two straight 
over their W&J counterparts, 48- 
38. Dale Johnson and Chet Reft 
led the Tech scoring with 10 
apiece.
Official Game Statistics:
Tech
TgJLrgfuftrebperpts
Laird43211057
Niedra3220924
Cupps93857311
Frazier247006414
Morrison15321517
Borkowski163445310
Werronen0000000
Ritchie3120733
------*
74 22
w &
20
J
11582155
fgafgftaftrebperpts
Hayes156654217
Unke831088114
Cooper144111359
Simon63742110
Banchansky4000100
Mason5233727
Zippay6021421
53182922391358
W&Js Unice (13), smallest man on the floor at S'?", snag 
a rebound away from a straining Sam Cupps (22). v>
IS UP FRONT f
Up front, ahead of a modern filter, only Winston has Filter-Blend.., 
rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed 
for full flavor in filter smoking. Its whats up front that counts!
HAPY EXMSY! T
MODERN FILTER !
3
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just
____a snack-put Hotel
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
hotel W&hte/t Wo!l
4415 PM Av^iu* U, Po.Tl*pho<x* MAyflow*r 1-7700
plus : FULTTI-BLTES up front
1962 B I. Reynold* Tobioco Company, Wliutoa 9Iem. N. G.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednefld?, January 1, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa 7
artans Bow To Dukes 76-53; 
Good Start Unrecorded In Score
By John Blue
After leading Duquesne for the 
'rst eight minutes, Carnegie Tech 
its offense and defense wilt 
Tmultaneously and Duquesne 
vent on to win in a rout, 76-53, 
ast Saturday at the Pitt Field 
ouse.
Tech built up a 9-3 lead on Ray 
lorrisons hot hand and a 
crambling defense that irritated 
he free-shooting Dukes, then 
saw Cuff, Williard, and Ross disolve the lead with some fancy 
utside shooting.
With a little better than 6 mintes to go in the first half, Techs 
umerous mechanical mistakes 
caught up with them and Du
quesne ran off eighteen points to 
lead at the half, 40-24. Lack of 
height prevented Tech from get
ting moxe than one shot at the 
hoop, and this one shot barely 
dropped through.
Intermission only halted the
rout temporarily. Tech went 
scoreless for the first 4V2 minutes 
of the second while Duquesne ran 
off 10 straight. Morrison finally 
hit two fouls to break the ice.
Mistakes doubled in the second 
half. Even Joe Laird, usually 
mistake-free, committed about 
twice as many errors as he had 
totaled all season.
With the score 58-33, Duquesne 
so compltely dominated play that 
it looked like that they just might 
score a thousand. There was no 
one to stop them. Tech had com
mitted just about every mistake 
possible except goal-tending, and 
that because no one was jumping 
high enough to have it ealled.
Tech made a brief flurry after 
Duke Coach Red Manning had 
emptied his bench. Tech closed 
the gap slightly, and the final 
score was the closest it had been 
for nearly a half.
Ray Morrison led both teams in 
scoring with 25 points, almost
half of Techs total. Closest Tech 
man to him was Joe Laird with 8.
Tech will have a chance to 
pick up win number five when 
they journey to Allegheny today. 
The Gators are 0-5 for the sea
son, and Tech will be out to top 
last years 4 wins when they go 
against them.
Official Statistics:
Cratsley Announces 
MVP Basketball Awards
Tartan head Basketball Coach 
Mel Cratsley has announced that 
Seniors Joe Laird and George 
Frazier are the first recipients 
the just inaugurated Most 
aluable Player award.
Coach Cratsley announced 
that the season will be broken 
up into four quarters, and for 
every quarter a most valuable 
player will be selected. Laird 
won his award for his play dur
ing the pre-Christmas quarter, 
and Frazier received his for his 
performance after Christmas. 
Selection of the recipient will 
done by the M men, Coach 
Mel Cratsley, Moe Fassinger, and 
Mike Theodore.
Laird, a 6 foot, 170 pounder, 
is a native of Homestead, Pa. 
Joe the cobra is recognized as
MkAAitkn't 15.9 hog. rCew High
After ten games, sophomore 
^ay Morrison, with a 15.9 point 
per game average and 159 points 
for the season, is running well 
ahead of the rest of the Tartan 
scorers. George Frazier is second 
with 11.2 points per game while 
Jules Borkowski is the only other
VITALIS KEEPS YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
Greatest discovery since the comb! Vitalis with V-7, the 
greaseless grooming discovery. Keeps your hair neat all day 
without grease-and prevents dryness, too. Try Vitalis today.
fsafeftaftrtbparpts
Frazier5011231
Morrison1991276025
Cupps3141333
Laird43, 22548
Niedra103N 21307
Borkowski8331217
Ritchie0011021
Werronen0000100
McGeary2031321
Thomas0010000
Johnson0000100
Rizzo0000000
--------------,------
51 19 29 15 
DUQUESNE
331553
fgareftaftrbper pts
Cuff1695112321
Willard216322414
Malloy850011210
15421105Or
Cegalis3232326
Hayes104411249J3LOKOS100010
McNutty1100102
Kudelko0010100
Miniotas2122204
Lautsch1000120
Schipani1021101
79322212572376
University Typing Service
THEMES
WEEKDAYS 
9-5 7-9
ESSAYS TERM PAPERS
DISSERTATIONS
SATURDAYS 
9-12421-9552
the top defensive performer on 
the squad, and must hold some 
record for participating in the 
most jump balls in a collegiate 
career. In addition, Joe leads the 
team in foul shooting percentage 
and rebounding.
Frazier, making a comeback 
after being hampered last sea
son with a wrenched knee, is a 
6 1, 178 lb. graduate of Lang
ley H.S. Frazier is a basketball 
three letter man, having been a 
starter in his freshman year. In 
that year he gainered 264 points 
for an 11 ppg average.
Frazier is currently second in 
scoring on the team with an 11.2 
average, and is the third lead
ing rebounder, unusual for an 
outside man like George in 
Coash Cratsleys offense.
man in double figures with a 10.7 
point per game average. Morri
son has broken twenty points a 
total of four times, once with 33 
point total against W and J. 
George Frazier is the only other 
Tartan who has broken the twenty 
mark this year.
(continued on page 8)
What responsibilities will you start with at W. E.?
Exciting ones. With plenty of room for your pro
fessional development. Western Electrics busi
ness depends on new ideas. And new engineers 
take responsible, immediate part in projects 
that implement the entire art of telephony  
including electronic telephone offices, compu
ter-controlled production techniques and 
microwave transmission. On many of these ex
citing advances in communications. Westerns 
engineers work closely with engineers from our 
research team-mate, Bell Telephone Laborato
ries. For Western Electric to maintain the Bell 
Systems ultra-high quality standards, extraor
dinary manufacturing, process and testing
techniques are required. Opportunities for fastmoving careers exist now for electrical, me
chanical and industrial engineers, and also for 
physical science, liberal arts and business 
majors.
For more detailed information, get your copy of 
the Western Electric career opportunities book
let from your Placement Officer. Or write Col
lege Relations Coordinator, Western Electric 
Company, Room 6306, 222 Broadway, New 
York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for 
a personal interview when the Bell System re
cruiting team comes to visit your campus this 
yearor during your senior year.
Western Electric MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTi 
An equal opportunity employer
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities  Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others thro* gho 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J.  Teletype Corp., Skokie, HI., little Rock, A.k.  Gen. Hq , 195 Btoadway, I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 16, 1963
34. In the first event of the meet, 
the 400 medley relay, Kent States 
team of Green, Babiak, Schiller 
and Abbott exhibited the teams 
all-around power as they sprinted 
the distance in 4:04.2, eclipsing 
the old standard set by Grove 
City last year by 3.6 seconds. Record-breaking seemed to be the fad 
of the day as Geary Andrews, the 
Tartans sensational freshman star 
and high point man of the meet 
and the season, smashed his own 
team mark and set a new Tech 
pool record of 2:05.0 in the 200 
freestyle. Andrews also won the 
500 freestyle (6:11.5) and anchor
ed the victorious 400 freestyle re
lay composed of Snow, French, 
Brunson and Andrews (3:57.9.
Coach Sofields charges were 
unable to win another event dur
ing the afternoon as Kent States 
Joe Weber and Dan Abbott, re
spectively, set new pool marks in 
the 50-yard (23.7) and 100-yard 
(53.3) freestyle. John Bennett, 
Frank Wyman and Bill Burdett 
(tie), and Dave Specht managed 
to capture Techs only second 
places in the diving, 200 butterfly, 
and 200 breakstroke, respectively.
The Tartans travel to Meadville, Pa., next Saturday to oppose 
Allegheny College and to close out 
the first semesters schedule. Most 
of the last seven meets the mer
men swim this season promise to 
be very close with the decision 
going to either team. The tankers 
start the second semester at home 
on Saturday, February 9, against 
Fenn College of Cleveland, Ohio 
at 2 p.m.
NeAnCgiC rCch 
BCett Pitt dn 
RiflC RengC
In spite of the fact that the 
Carnegie Tech rifle team had one 
of its poorest nights of the year 
last Friday, they were still good 
enough to down Pitt 1366 to 1361. 
Both teams had off nights but 
Tech proved to be the better of 
the two, handing Pitt a defeat for 
the second time in a row, this time 
at Pitts range. Freshman Bill 
Jackson was high for the Tartans, 
posting a 279 score. He was fol
lowed by Mike Ray 275 and Mike 
Knepley, 274, Tuck Arnold, 273, 
and Bob Fritz, 265. This boosted 
Carnegies league record to 3 wins, 
4 losses and gave the Tartans a 
chance to tie for second place be
hind undefeated West Virginia.
Tankmen BowTo Strong Kent State;
Five Pool Records Broken At Tech
By KEN KANTROWITZ
Last Saturday, January 12, the 
Carnegie tankmen were defeated 
by perhaps the strongest team on 
their schedule this year, Kent 
State. Four pool records and one 
Tech team record were set as 
Kent State handed the home team 
their third loss of the season, 61-
SWIMMING 
400 Yd. Medley Relay 1. KS (Green, 
Babiak, Schiller, Abbot4:04.2* 30 Yd. 
Free 1) Andrews (T) 2:05.0*, 2) Kannell 
(KS), 3) Brown (KS) 50 Yds. Free 1) 
Weber (KSi 23.7*. 2) Turby (KS), 3) 
French (T) 200 Yds. Ind. Medley 1) Hunston (KS) 2.25 5, 2> Walls (KS), 3)
Brunson (T) Dive 1) Giacobore (KS) 
150.15, 2) Bennett (T), 3) Show (T) 200 
Yds. Butterfly 1) Schiller (KSi 2:44.3, 2)
Wyman and Burdett (T). 100 Yds. Free
1) Abbott (KS) 53.3*. 2) Weber (KS), 3) 
French (T), 200 Yds. Back 1) Green 
(KS) 2:17.9, 2) Walls (KS), 3) Brunson 
(T). 500 Yds. Free 1) Andrews (T) 6:11.5,
2) Kannel (KS), 3) Bell (T). 200 Yds. 
Breast 1) Turby (KS) 2:39.1, 2) Specht 
(T), 2) Easley (T). 400 Yds. Relay 1) 
T (Snow, French, Brunson, Andrews) 
3:57.9.
* Pool Record
** Pool and School Record
Frazier Places Second--- . fl
(continued from page 7) ')
DuqWnbeIndThielW & JWmstEdGenW*JDuqTotalA(Werronen3997523200402Ritchie0422321142Frazier420191112197514111211.2Caird7427111012778757.5Bord211414901512510710710.7Cupps4101867109113696.9Morrison9410133312232372515915.9Neidra3000032847272.7McGeary040000.,15.625Rupnik. .0_ _0. (00Thomas0..04..004.571Newell. .000000Johnson... .000000Rizzo00000
Bowlers Await Playoff
says Quintus (The Eye) Tacitus, well-known hunter and man about town. My modus vivendi calls for the 
very best. Andwhen it comes to flavor in a cigaretteTareyton is nulli secundus. Indeed, heres de gustibus 
you never thought youd get from any filter cigarette 
Dual Filter makes the difference
DUAL FILTER
fnmd tf S& J&uwm Jv/nm  'Jvatx* is Mtr middleTareyton
is Mtr middle name fit r c*. ^
Frank Wyman (left) and 
second in the 200-yard Butterfly against Kent State.
with Dervaes, to the All-School 
Team.
Team statistics show that Obe
lisk A has the high team aver. II 
age of 814 but BTP has rolled the 
high team game of 913. Obeljf> 
A has also rolled the high team 
series of 2584.
FINAL STANDINGS
STRIKESWL
BTP A151
Grad Eagles115KS106SAE412Whales0
SPARES16
WL
ATO133DTD124BSR97DU511Obelisk B1
SPLITS
15
WLObelisk A/ 151
Sigma Nu107PKT98BTP B412TDP313
Intramural Bowling finished up 
its regular league play with Obe
lisk A and Beta Theta Pi easily 
finishing first in their leagues, 
with 15-1 records to become co
favorites to win the IM championATO beat out DTD to win 
place in the Spares League. 
Delts, the Grad Eagles, and 
Sigma Nu also gained playoff 
berths by taking the three second 
Sigma Nu had to defeat 
a roll-off to gain their 
place spot.
Bob Dervaes, of BTP, was voted 
Most Valuable Player on the basis 
his fine 174.3 point per game 
average.- Bob also rolled the 
leagues high game of 244 and had 
seasons high series of 590. 
Sanders of the Grad Eagles 
a 172.9 average, Pete Herwitt 
at 171.8, Phil Dowd of 
ATO at 170.4 and Stu McMullen 
of KS at 169.9 were voted, along
"Tareytons Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!
