fflxt Carnegie fTartau
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1932
Waldemar Kaempffert 
Will Address Student 
Body At 11:30 Today
Science Editor To Talk 
On Social Aspects 
Of Engineering
DELTA SKULL WILL 
SPONSOR ASSEMBLY
Edward II. Johe Presents 
Bruckner, Guilmant 
Organ Selections
By DUDLEY PENDLETON
Waldemar Bernhard Kaempffert, 
;; science editor of the New York 
Times, will talk before the stu
dents at the assembly to be held 
today at 11:30 in the Little Thea
ter. He will talk on the social and 
 cultural aspects of engineering and' 
invention.
Mr. Kaempffert stresses the im. portance of a cultural background in the technical age. In a letter to 
Dr. Baker he says, If this cultural . aspect of technology is accepted, as it is by most  economists and sociologists, then the engineer has not yet awakened to his real responsibilities. We teach the technical methods of science, engineeiing, and invention, but we do not 
say much about their cultural aspects, except by way of pointing out a lesson in economics, or adorning a sociological tale.The assembly will be sponsored by Delta Skull, the junior honorary, and will be in charge of Josef Lentz, president of the Student Council. Special seats will be reserved for faculty members and members of the campus lionoraries. Fraternities are urged to make their rushing dates include the assembly.
Edward H. Johe, a senior in the Department of Music, will play organ selections which will include PreludesPrailudium, by Bruckner, Prelude, Theme and Variations by Guilmant, and Postlude Grand Choeur by Guilmant.Graduated from Columbia Uni
versity in 1897, Mr. Kaempffert was ' awarded his degree of Bachelor of Law seven years later at New York University. During these seven years lie was assistant editor of the Scientific American and 
studied law, being admitted to the New York Bar Association in 1903. Later he was editor of Popular Science Monthly for five years. Besides being an editor, Mr. Kaempffert was for three years director of the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. He is :the author of several books and has made a number of translations. 
His writings include a history of astronomy and a book on aviation 
entitled, "The New Art of Flying, as well as numerous magazine articles.Dr. Baker will entertain Mr. Kaempffert with a dinner at the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
M. M. Girls Plan 
Christmas Party
The Christmas party sponsored 
each year by the Department of 
Social Work, for a number of the 
settlement houses of Pittsburgh 
will be held Tuesday, December 
13, from 7:30 to 9:30 in the Rec
reation Hall of Margaret Morrison.
The party is planned as a com
bined Christmas and Olympic cele
bration, and the children of the 
Kingsley House, the Brashear Set
tlement, the Munliall Settlement, 
the D. T. Watson Home for Crip
pled Children, and the Juvenile De
tention Home will masquerade in 
the costumes of athletes of dif
ferent nations. About one . hun
dred and fifty children will attend 
the party, and invitations have been extended to Dr. Baker, Dean 
Green, Dr. Watkins, and other members of the faculty.
The students in the Social Work Department who are in charge of the plans are Jean Ritzel 34, general chairman; Martha Robinson 34, programs; Dorothy Miller 34, decoration; Alice Dublin 34, re
freshments; Helen Charters '34, invitations; and Adeline Miller '34, finance.
Inventor Completes 
Bickley Bean Sorter
Everett H. Bickley 10, Mechanical Engineering, is the inventor of the recently completed 30 unit Bickley Ban Sortfer.This machine has a capacity of seven to ten tons per 24 hours. It consumes 600 watts to do this work and one operator can look after a battery of these machines. 
The beans are fed into the top, ' and delivered sorted on each side. All the sorting is done by compressed air controlled electrically, and the control is very sensitive. Differences so slight in color as to be imperceptible to the human eye are sufficient to cause the machine \ either pass or reject according 'he setting of the control knob.
CHAR LE SH .DHRNR 
GW OTMRNHKRO IN BMNN
Tomorrow afternoon the 
Cwens will be the guests of the 
Pitt Cwens at a tea dance from 
5 to 8 oclock in the Heinz 
House.
Dean Green and the Cwens 
gave a tea to the transfer stu
dents and their twin sisters 
last Saturday afternoon in the 
Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall. Cwens, womens nation
al sophomore honorary, planned 
the tea in order to enable the 
girls who transferred to become 
better acquainted with each 
other and with their twin sis
ters.
Jean N. Ritzel 34, a former 
Cwen, made a leather-bound 
scrapbook containing newspa
per articles and clippings about 
the Cwens. Julia Hubbard has 
charge of the book this year.
Thistle Will 
Appear With 
New Features
Photographs Of Major 
Social Events Will 
Be Included
Plans have been completed for the 
1933 Thistle Carnegie Year Book, 
which will appear on the cam
pus May 1. The staff has arranged 
for a novel and modernistic This
tle, which will offer a simple, straigliforward presentation of the year at Carnegie. Edward M. Rhodes 34 is the editor of Thistle, which the junior class publishes each year.
Several significant revisions and additions have been made in the 
new year book. Photographs will be included of such major events as Arts Ball, Carnegie Day, Campus Week, Freshman Parade, and Sweepstakes. Incidents of fraternity and dormitory life will be featured. The introduction will contain several snapshots of laboratory classes in session.In the fraternity section, Thistle will present composite pictures instead of the former group pictures. However, there will be many group photographs, which will be taken again this year in the Carnegie Union. Arrangements, for these may be made with Regis Joyce of the Department of Drama, who is photographic editor of Thistle.Before Christmas vacation, colored views of the campus will be given to students in order to increase their interest in Thistles photographic work. The price of Thistle will be the same as last year, with the 50c rebate to those 
who place their order before Christmas.
Music Students Will 
Sing For Pantomime
The choir of Carnegie music students will sing Italian chants of the thirteenth to fifteenth cen
turies at a pantomime to be given Friday evening at eight oclock, in the auditorium of the Frick Training School. The pantomime will be carried out in colorful costumes and will be patterned after Giottos paintings of the nativity and of preceding events.
Tickets, priced at $1.00, may be secured from Miss Demarest, Room 223, College of Fine Arts, or may be ordered through Miss Donohoe, Room 100, College of Fine Arts. Proceeds of the affair will be used for the furnishing of the Italian Room in the Cathedral of Learning.
Dedication Of Mural 
Held Friday Afternoon
Charles Le Moyn6 Dietzs paint
ing, The Charwomans Dream," 
was unveiled Friday at 4:30 in the 
Womens Club Room of the gym
nasium, with Dean Green and Mar
garet Siebert 33, president of Mor
tar Board, officiating. The pro
gram opened with a song and a 
violin solo, followed by the dedi
cation of the mural. Among those 
present were Mrs. David S. Reed, 
wife of Senator Reed. Mr. Dietz 
is a junior in the Painting and Decorating Department of the College of Fine Arts. His painting won first prize in a student competition last spring sponsored by Professor Alexander J. Kostellow, Associate Professor of the. Painting and Decorating Department.
Noted Lawyer 
Debates On 
Immortality
Clarence Darrow And 
Musmanno Argue 
Religious Views
AGNOSTIC ASSERTS 
DEATH ENDS ALL
Christmas Charities Given 
Net Proceeds From 
Religious Debate
Two criminal lawyers, Clarence 
Darrow of Chicago and Judge M. A. Musmanno of the Allegheny 
County Court, will debate at Carnegie Music Hall 'next Monday evening. The wording of the question is: Does Man Live Again?Being Americas foremost agnostic, Mr. Darrow will take the negative, and asserts that he believes 
he can produce positive proof that death ends all.Judge Musmanno, agreeing with his opponent on capital punishment, crime treatment and other subjects, nevertheless thoroughly disagrees with him on religious matters. He will uphold the affirmative of the immortality ques
tion.Not since the great ovation accorded him nearly two years ago has Mr. Darrow addressed a Pittsburgh audience. Since that time lie has written his autobiography, defended Lieut. Thomas IT. Massie and associates in Honolulu, and otherwise busied himself. At 75, 
he appears as active mentally and physically as he was in his earlier 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Bacchanalians 
Produce Skit In 
Spring Carnival
Following the tradition set aud 
immortalized by the late Florenz 
Ziegfeld, The Bacchanalians have 
decided to create a special number 
for the next SpringCarnival Musi
cal Revuenow in preparation 
called, Glorifying the Maggie 
Murph. This number will be per
formed by Margaret Morrison girls exclusively and promises to be one of the highlights of the show. At a meeting held on Sunday evening, December 4, the preliminary 
steps to organize this detail of the production were started and the directors expect to put the number into rehearsal after the Christmas holidays.Student composers and lyricists have submitted several songs, 
which are now under consideration. There are many more numbers needed, and students who are interested are requested to leave their material or their ideas for material with M,iss Donahoe in the office of the Fine Arts College.William Beal 34 and Herman Liveright, special student in the Department of Drama, members of 
the executive committee for The Bacchanalians, are very much pleased with the progress made thus far. The dancing director, 
William Bales 34, intends to stan his preliminary training of the chorus within a few weeks. Several designers have been given 
competitive assignments for settings. The directors plan to have several sketches under way immediately after the vacation.
Award Given Junior 
For Highest Rating
James D. Campbell, highest ranking junior in the Department of Electrical Engineering, has been chosen to be the recipient of an award made annually by Eta Kappa Nu, electrical engineering honorary fraternity, and the Carnegie Student Branch of The American Institute of Electrical Engineers.The award, which is a Standard 
Handbook for Electrical Engineers, was to have been made at the Carnegie Day exercises, but since a new edition of the handbook will be published and on the 
market by January, the date of the presentation lias been postponed.
This award is made primarily on the basis of scholarship, although 
integrity, unselfish activity and adaptability are taken into consideration when the selection is made.
Sophomores Entertain 
M. M. C. C. Freshmen
The sophomore class of Margaret Morrison will entertain the freshmen at n. Salamagundl party 
to be held in Recreation Hall on Wednesday afternoon, December 7, from 3:30 until G. This is the first party of the year which any upperclassmen have given to the freshmen. General chairman for the affair is Nancy McQuade, the social chairman of the sophomore class. The members of the entertainment committee are: Daisy V. Clarke, chairman: Elizabeth B.
Galata, and Ruth H. Schmelz. The refreshment committee consists of: Gwen Haddock, chairman;Rita M. Pearsall, Catherine M. Conti, Mary G. Kreh, Catherine E. Moran, and Lois E. Conley.
Fraternities Begin Annual 
Frosh Rushing Campaign
Interfraternity Council Introduces Revised Rules; 
Inauguration Of Contacting Period Prevents
Past InefficiencyThroughout. Season
By WILLIAM
Rushing season, which commenced last Wednesday at 4:20 P. M. and is being carried on through this week by tlie various fraternities on the campus, is, this year, iu the nature of an experiment,. be
cause of the change of rules effected by the Interfraternity Council. The most important revision 
in the rules have been the introduction of the contacting period and the lengthening of the rush
ing season to include one more week-end. The contacting period has been established so that a cer
tain fixed time could be set apart and used solely for the purpose of malting dates with the freshmen for the coming week. This has eliminated the mad rush across the Woodlawn Avenue lawn and has done away with much of the feverish excitement which accompanied 
the start of previous rushing seasons. By giving the freshmen a chance to determine their schedule for visiting the various houses, tbe contacting period has proved a benefit to both fraternities and
LANDSBERG
rushees.Last years rushing season proved beyond a doubt that one week was inadequate for twenty-two fraternities to rush an incoming class of approximately four hundred men. Not only was it difficult for the 
fraternities to become acquainted with the rushees in so short a time, but it also was unfair to the rushee because it forced him to make a decision without having become well enough acquainted with the fraternities The Interfrater
nity Council by lengthening the time for rushing, has done much to 
smooth over these difficulties by providing both parties with tlife opportunity to exercise better judgement in their choice.So far this year, rushing season, is proceeding along smoother and less-hapliazard lines than previ
ously. It is, as yet, too early to declare the extent of its success under the new rules and while they may not be an ideal solution to the problem, it is believed by most to be a step in the right direction.
Graduates Do 
Good Work 
In Metallurgy
Variety Of Experiments 
In Progress With 
New Apparatus
Graduate students in the Department of Metallurgy are engaged 
in work which, besides being of great interest, will prove of great 
value in the study of metals. Dr. Vseuolod N. Krlvobolc who is in charge of all graduate metallurgical research says, The problems on which my men are working are indeed of great variety.Andre Hone who is the recipient of the Province of Ontario scholarship and a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Science in the spring is investigating the rate of reaction between pure aluminum and magnesium in alloys. Since practically no work has been done up to this time on the rate of reaction in solids, his results will, no doubt, be of great value.
Maxwell Censamer Is continuing his work on the alloys of pure iron and manganese which is part of a comprehensive investigation car
ried out on these metals by the Bureau of Metallurgical Research.Lieutenant J. W. LiUdewig of the 
U. S. Navy and Miles K. Smith are working together on the strength 
at high temperatures of heat and corrosion resisting alloys. A prob
lem on the same kind of alloys Is being carried out by Rush A. Lincoln and Charles W. Sclinck as well by Vasili V. Kuznetzoff and Ivan G. Liferenko, the two holders 
of tlie Russian government scholarships.The graduate laboratories are growing rapidly and have recently acquired some very excellent ap
paratus. One of the most recent additions is an X-ray apparatus which will be used in discovering 
some of the effects of X-rays upon metals.
Guild To Place Boxes 
For Welfare Gifts
The Carnegie Guild, campus 
philanthropic organization, discuss
ed its Christmas welfare program 
at a meeting Tuesday, November 
29. The Guild adopted a sugges
tion to place boxes in both Mar
garet Morrison and the College of 
Fine Arts where student contri
butions may be made.
Journalistic 
Honorary Call 
Three Today
Alpha Chi Alpha Names 
Women Active On 
Publications
Theta Chapter of Alpha Chi Al
pha, womens national journalistic 
honorary, in its semi-annual call 
named the three following women who have been prominent In publications activities at Carnegie: Loretta Conlln, Sarah Freedman, and Alice 1-Ienzl.Miss Conlln and Miss Henzl are Junior Editors of the Tartan aud assistant secretaries of Student 
Council. The former la a member of the Womens Junior Prom Committee, the latter is the Feature Editor of the Thistle, treasurer of the Secretarial Club, and a formor Cwen. Both are juniors In the Department of Secretarial Studies.Miss Freedman, a senior in the Department of Secretarial Studies, 
Is a member of the Puppet staff and is now secretary to the editor.These women have boon olected 
to Alpha Clil Alpha In recognition of meritorious services on the Carnegie publications. Requirements for membership are acceptable work of a literary character for a college newspaper, a degree ot journalistic executive ability, and a standard of scholarship. The next call will bo made on Qualifi
cations Day during the Spring Carnival.Alpha Chi Alpha will hold Its second journalistic seminar on Thursday afternoon of tills week at 4:30 in Room 102, Margaret Morrison. All women members of the staff are requested to attend.The following are officers of Alpha Chi Alpha: president, Chris
tine Leighou; vice-president,' Edna Pearson; secretary-treasurer, Henrietta Steinberg; social-chairman, Marjorie Dougherty.'
Theta Tan Honorary 
Interviews New Men
Theta Tau, engineering honorary fraternity, requests all members to be present at Dean Tarbells office on December 11, for the purpose of interviewing the men seeking admission into the fraternity. The men who are selected will be initiated at a meeting following the Christmas holidays. Theta Tau calls its pledges from among the three upper classes of the College of Engineering.
Extensive Survey Indicates 
Drastic Change In Industry
Technologists Are Reinforcing Assumption Thai 
The Increasing Complexity Of Industry Will 
Eventually Exceed Capacity Of Control
By DR.
A period of business depression 
Ib naturally a time of dissatisfaction, struggle, and experimentation. We are confronted constantly with new plans for renovating Industrial well-being, while we must also recognize the presence of those who see only disaster ahead. Strangely enough, one of the most 
pessimistic utterances published in recent months is that of Tech
nocracy, a group of engineers and architects.This group of technical men has 
been studying for some time the trend of modern industry. They 
have undertaken to construct three thousand charts of different industries, as one part of analysis of our 
industrial trend. It is their present conclusion that recovery from our present slumpif it comes 
will raise us to heights of sj eculaGUILD
tlve expansion exceeding that of 1928-29; the reaction from this will be far worse than our present ex
perience. This Is predicted. In part at least, from a study of the problems of prices and Indebtedness. If our government continues to underwrite certain forms of debt, through tho Reconstruction Finance Corporation and similar agencies, we may see a wild inflation and subsequent collapse.The Technocrats are also devoting attention to that unfortunate situation which Is generally known as "Technological Unemployment. They are finding evidences at saturations of other sorts, which also tend to interfere with the smooth operation of our industrial machine.It is probable that further stu(Contlnued on Page Three)
Victorian Age 
Melodrama To 
Open Tonight
Drama Department Will 
Present The TicketOl'-Leave Man
Memorial Foundation 
Invites Dr. Baker To 
Lecture In Germany
TO SPEAK ABROAD
B. IDEN PAYNE WILL 
DIRECT PRODUCTION
Plan Serious Production 
Without Any Attempt 
To Burlesque
By ROY MINET
Tonight, all the clorious pomp 
of the Victorian English stage will 
be revived in the Little Theater 
when the curtain rises on B. Iden 
Paynes production of The Ticlcetof-Leave Man by Tom Taylor. Done in a serious manenr and without any attempt to burlesque, this melodrama is typical of its time, and is also one of its greatest. The vitality alone of one of Its great characters, Detective Hawkshaw, will thrill alike any bank president or any messenger boy.Ticlcet-of-Leave Man was first performed at the London Olympic Theater on May 27, 1863. It. was tremendously popular and ran for a period of over 40 years with frequent rovivals. It oxhiblts all the defects Introduced to meet popular taste, done by a playwright who was perfectly willing to lower his abilities in order to follow the line of least resistance. Yet it must bo remembered that its sham sentimentalities were 
(Contlnuod on Page Four.)
Y.M. & Y.W.C.A. 
Arrange Joint 
Yuletide Party
A joint mooting of tho Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. will bo hold on December 14th at (! p. m. In tho Rocroation Iiall of tho Sixth Presbyterian Church. Tho mooting will take tho form ol! a Christmas party. Christmas oxorelses and tho singing of carols will form tho program.
Mr. I-Ionry C. Wostln 33, and Mr. Fred C. Ford 33, woro choson as roproBontallvos of tho studont Y. M. C, A. to the Fall Studont Conforonco of tho Y. M. C. A. to bo hold at Grovo City. Tho following schools woro roprosontod at tills conforonco: Pitt, Carnoglo,
Edinboro, Thiel, W. & J., Allegheny, California, Kialtl, Grovo City, Gonova, Slippery Rock, Waynesboro, Clarion, Westminister, and Indiana. Some of the 
speakers at tho conference woro Mr. Charles C. Ellis, D. D., who has been President of Juniata College since 1930 and a graduate studont of Princeton and I-Iarvnrd with a Doctorate in Philosophy from the 
University of Pennsylvania. Rev. John Ray Ewers, D. D Pastor of the East End Christian Church In Pittsburgh.M,r. George Irving, a native of Canada and a graduate of McGill University also spoke. In recent years lie has been Secretary of the Evangelical Emphasis Department of the National Council of tho Y. M. C. As of North America. He has given much of his time to the development of religious fellowship among students in ­­colleges and universities all over the land.
Will Speak At Leading 
Universities During 
Next Two Months
AMERICANGERMAN 
GOOD WILL OBJECT
Will Confer With Experts 
As To Possible Advances 
In Research Work
DR. THOMAS S. BAKER 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president 
of Carnegie, has accepted an invi
tation to deliver a series of lec
tures at German universities dur
ing the months of January and 
February.
Honorary For 
Women Holds 
Annual Recital
Sigma Alpha Iota Calls 
Sixteen Women For 
Current Year
Science Club Holds 
Annual Xmas Party
The Science Club of Margaret Morrison will hold its annual Christmas party on Thursday evening, December 15 in the Recreation Hall. The traditional custom of exchanging presents will be con
tinued.Committees in charge of the arrangements were appointed by Gertrude E. Landis 34, president, 
as follows:Gifts:  Catherine Elizabeth 
Davis 35, chairman, Leonora Freeman 34, and Virginia A. Linn 35: refreshmentsMary Jane Gray 33, chairman; Isabel E. Weston, 33, and Mary Wynne 35; decorations:Frances IT. Brown '33, chairman, Sara E. Bray 35, and Daisy V. Clarke 35;. entertainment:Mary A. M. Husband 34. chairman, Margaret F. Ripley 33, and Mary P. Warner 35; invitations:Anna Billy 33, chairman, Thelma M. Shelley 35, and Dorothy Louise Edwards 33.
Mr. Baldwin To Speak 
Before Civil Engineers
Mr. C. G. Baldwin, inspector in the Pennsylvania Railroad Bureau of Explosives, will address a meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers on Wednesday, December 7. Mr. Baldwin will speak on "Transportation of Dan
gerous Articles."On December 14, Mr. W. R. Trlem, also of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad, win speak before another A. S. C. E. meeting on the Application of Engineering Principles 
to. the Movement of Traffic on a Railroad.
Sigma Alpha Iota, national mu
sical honorary for womon, hold Its 
annual rocltal on Thursday, Docombor 1, In tho Exhibition Hall 
of tho Fine Arts Building. A 
formal rocltal and a reboptlon con 
st.ll.utod tho program for tho fuiictlon, which marked tho third yonr of, tho oxlstonco of the honorary.Slxtoon pledges wore called to Sigma Alpha Iota on the evening of tho recital. Although all acceptances have not yot. boon roeolvos, tho womon who were called are. Ilazel Loulso Campbell 35, Hilda Ellers 35, Narva Hooter '31, 
Vivian Johnston 33, Miriam John son, Gertrude Landis 34, (Margarot Morrison), (race Motzor 34 Josophlne McGrall, Alice McKolvoy 35, Sylvia Sconza '34, Beatrice Sommorvlllo 34, Margaret, Varner '30, Henrietta Warner '33, Betty Watson '35, Florence Weaver '35, and burline Williams '34.Sigma Alpha lota Is presenting 
a weekly radio program of classical music over radio station K'DICA ovory Friday at 4:15 p. m. 'Tho 
programs are arranged In connection with carrying out one of the national obligations of the organization, which is to try to Improve radio programs. Memhors of thechorus, which is featured in thobroadcasts, are taken from bothSigma Alpha Iota and the Madrigal Choir, a group of twenty women from the Music Department who sing togetherunaccompanied and undirected during the per
formance.
Y Holiday Program 
Opens Sunday Night
Tech Night, to be held December 11 at the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church, Forbes and Murray, will initiate the annual Christmas 
events of the Carnegie Y. M. C. A. The second of these events Is the annual Christmas Chapel, presided over by President Baker, which will be held on Tuesday, December 13 at 12:30 in the Little Theater, College of Fine Arts. Mr. R. V. Davis, head of the Y. M. C. A., will 
select the Christmas carols to be sung.The last of these events will lie a joint party, given by the Y. M. and Y. W. C. A., on Wednesday, December 14, in Recreation Hall, Margaret Morrison College.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, December G:Student Assembly, Little Theater, 11:30. Speaker, Mr. Waldemar Kaempffert., Science Editor of New York Times.Wednesday, December 7: Freshrnan-Sophomoro Salamagundl Party, Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 3:30 to 0 oclock.Thursday, December 8:News Meeting. Alpha Chi Alpha, Room 102, Margaret Morrison, at 4:30.Saturday, December 10:President Baker's Faculty Reception and Theater Party, Little Theater.Sunday, December 11:Tech Night, Sixth Presbyterian Church, 8 o'clock. Speaker,1 Mr. Andrew Park, District Attorney. Music hy Kiltie Band and Womens Glee Club.
Dr. Baker has accepted an invi
tation from the Oberlaender Trust 
of the Carl Scliurz Memorial Foun
dation to spend January and Feb
ruary in Germany visiting and lec
turing at some of the leading German universities.His lectures will deal with the general aspects of public opinion in the United States. The titles of his lectures are: The Present Significance of the United States in International Affairs. The American Mind, and The Present State of American Education and Research. In addition to 
these formal lectures there will be opportunities for addresses on other subjects. Engagements have boon made for Dr. Baker to speak at the universities of Berlin, Breslau, Gottingen, Hamburg, IToidleberg, Knigsberg, and Mpnicli.Tho trust under which the locturos will bo givon was founded in April, 1931, by Gustav Oborlaender, philanthoplst of Reading, Pa., as part of tho memorial to Carl Schurz, ono of the most distinguished Immigrants to this country. Tho purpose of tho memorial Is to enrich tho life and thought of tho American people by promoting understanding and good-will botwoon tho pooplo of the German speaking countries and tho pooplo of the United Statos.Dr. Baker Is tho second representative of Amorlcnn universities who has boon honored hy the foundation. Last yoar IJr. Robert. A. Millllcan, distinguished physicist of tho California Institute of Technology, spont throo months visiting and lecturing In Germany.Dr. Maker Is especially lntorostod in studying the rocont developments In German technical schools, und In both public and private rosoarch laboratories, in discussing his jiians, Dr. Baker said, Whllo abroad I shall utillzo what time I can socuro from my rather crowded lecturing program to confer with exports so that on my return I shall bo prepared to mnlco some recomendatlons with regard to tho next stop forward wo shall take In tho advancement 
of our Institution as a contor of onglnoorlng research."This will lie Dr, Baker's second lootui'o sorlos In Europe, He delivered lectures on American lli'o and customs In tho spring of 1928 in Paris under the auspices of the Carnoglo Endowment for Interna
tional Peace.
Typolhetae Head 
Visits Printers
Mennem S. Woyl of Philadelphia, newly-olected president of the United Typotlietae of America, was a recent guest of the Department of Printing. Mr. Weyl was accompanied on his visit by Mr. John J. Deviny of Washington, D. C., secretary of the United Typothetae.Mr. Weyl is vice-president and treasurer of the Edward Stern & Company, one of the oldest and best known producers of colorprinting in Philadelphia. He has been an officer of the Typotlietae for a number of years and was elected to the presidency at the annual convention at Cincinnati in October. Two years ago Mr. Weyl delivered one of the addresses in the Typotlietae lecture series at Carnegie.Mr. Deviny was formerly in charge of production in tlie United States Bureau of Printing and Engraving at Washington. Since 1929 lie has held the position of secretary of the United Typotlietae of America.Professor Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing, conducted 
the inspection of the Department of Printing. Both men were loud in their praise of the work Carnegie is doing in the field of printing and publishing.
Intercollegiate Ball
To Be Held Dec. 6
The annual Intercolloglato Ball Is to be hold in Harrisburg In tho Penn Harris ballroom, December 2(5, under the supervision of Raymond Best and Sidney Steele, formor Penn State students. An honorary assisting committee of girls selected from colleges and universities throughout Pennsylvania will be named in the near 
future.A member of the student body will be selected in the near future 
to represent Carnegie on the committee. The tickets will be avail
able from the committee members or at the hotel the night of the 
dance.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKNEGTE TARTAN, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1932
New York U. 
Trims Skibos 
By 13-6 Score
Annual Dollar 
Day Fund To 
Close Dec. 31
Co-Caplain George KavelWomens Athletics by Gloria Kloos
Where Carnegie Coeds one and all, Practice gym and play basketball; 
Climb the steps into the hall, There to answer the first roll-call.
This is the first year that all of 
the upper class teams have been 
unusually strong and it depends 
upon the Freshmen to decide 
whether the competition will be school-wide. Remembrance of Play-Day when several Freshmen showed surprising ability bn the floor offers some proof of their probable strength. Do the Freshmen know that they are allowed to 
substitute a basketball practice for their gym period? Its a grand privilege to be allowed to sleep an extra hour in the morning!!!The meeting on Thursday is most important for everyone who intends to come out for the team. It is necessary for the manager to know how many from each class intend to try out for the team so 
that convenient practice hours may be arranged for everyone. Tuesday, Thursday and Friday have always proved to be the best days, but everyone is allowed to offer suggestions as to the hours. Be sure to come so that we will not plan practices for a time that is inconvenient to YOU.
All of which is just a very informal way of announcing that the Basketball season, scheduled to open next week, will hold its preliminary meeting of the season at 4:30 on Thursday afternoon in the Womens Gym. Basketball has always been one of the most popular sports on the campus, and this year promises to be more exciting than ever. The rivalry among the three upper classes had its bitter start during last years tournament, 
and the Sophomores and Juniors are determined to prevent the Seniors from capturing the title for the third year in succession. That powerful Sophomore team offered such stiff competition that it was necessary to play an extra quarter of the final game in order to determine the victors. If Kitty Conti is successful in getting every 
one of last years players to compete again this year the Seniors may be due for an upset.
Coach Jones Of 
U.S.C. To Broad
cast This Week
John L. Porter Started 
Alumni Dollar Plan 
Five Years Ago
Tartans Outplay Violet 
Team But Lose In 
Final Period
It the limt two Carnegle-N. Y. U. 
games had ended with the com
pletion of their respective third 
quarters, the Tartans would have 
won them both. However, it is 
customary to play all four periods 
and so, for the second time in as 
many years, New 'X'ork spotted Car
negie six points for three stanzas 
and then won out in the final fif
teen minutes of play. The result 
of the current New York invasion 
was 13-G and marked the Skibos 
third defeat of the season.
Fate seems destined to leer at 
Carnegie from all angles this year 
for, not being content with forcing 
a mediocre season on the Plaid, 
she now shows the Scotch follow
ers that a really good halfback has 
been wandering around the campus 
for three years in the role of track 
captain. The Merriwell referred to 
is Tom Coulter who is having a 
try at football in his last year at 
school, and who. in the last two 
games has added enough experi
ence to his natural ability to gain 
a starting position in the final 
combat of the year witli George
town.
Coulter, although still far from 
a finished football product, was the 
big gun of the Tartan attack against the Violets. The big Canuck combined liis great speed with a surprising driving power to prove a constant threat to tile New York goal line. It was Tom who started the touchdown drive in the third quarter by returning a punt to his own 44 and it was Coulter wiio crossed the final mark after the successful parade down the field had placed the oval on the one-yard line.
Throughout the flrst half Carnegie outplayed N. Y. U. and that 
six points looked as big as a mountain when the fourth quarter started. The Tartans, however, 
showed signs of tiring after scor
ing their touchdown and when it became necessary to re
lieve the fatigued-Clansmen in the final period, Now York opened up a desperate aerial attack and took the game. It is interesting to note that the Violets only completed two passes out of eighteen attempts against Carnegie, both successful heaves coming in the last quarter and both were good fop touchdowns.
The Violots recorded tho tying six points with a drive which started on their own 28-yard line and ended when Wliito caught 
Tanguays pass over tho goal line. Tho point was missed and Carnogio still had a tie but the Now 
Yorkers sot sal] on another cruise headed by McNamara and Tanguay which carried tho ball to tho Tech 
10. At this juncture Tanguay 
orossod up tho Tartan and heaved a pass on flrst down to McNamara 
who gathorod tho plgnlcln in on tho ono-yard line and wont ovor for tho winning sooro.
The annual Carnegie Dollar Day 
began on Tuesday, November 22 
and will continue until December 
31 during which, time Carnegie 
graduates are urged to contribute 
a dollar or more to the endowment 
fund.
Under the Endowment Fund 
Plan, Carnegie must raise four 
million dollars by 194G. At this 
time the Carnegie Corporation lias 
agreed to double the principle, plus 
the interest. Thus a single dollar 
turned in this year will amount to 
over five dollars in 194G, providing 
the four millions can be raised.
The Dollar Day plan was origi
nated by John L. Porter, chairman 
of the school committee of Carne
gie, and lias been in operation five 
years. This campaign is not limited 
to alumni only. Contributions can 
be made at any time during the 
year and still be accredited to the 
Dollar Day Fund. Checks should 
be made payable to the Alumni 
Federation and sent to the Alumni 
Office.
The following have already con
tributed: Anna McCandless, Roy
A. Hunt (trustee), Mrs. T. C. Towl, 
Harold Yeager, D. M. Sheppard, M. 
T. Archer, C. F. Wright, Paul 
Johner, Golda Heminger, Owen W. 
Jones, E. D. Lambert, Lu M. Hart
man, A. W. Crownover, Helen 
Wassell, James Guthrie, John 
Pelikan, Margaret Benner, Paul W. 
Emmell, L. H. Lee, Colonel S. H. 
Church, (President, Carnegie Insti
tute), Catherine Allen, E. E. 
Brown, Dorothy D. Savage, Ed
mund Ashe, Edythe A. Tenney, 
Henry Seaman, Wm. A. Walder, 
Ruth Brooks, Kathryn Shuman, W. 
S. Davis, W. F. Alster, F. H. Noel, 
Marguerite M. Shupp, James P. 
1-lall, Ruth A. Tejan, Thomas 
Davies, John L. Porter (Trustee), 
T. W. Blewitt, Mr. and Mrs. O. A. 
Dickman, R. A. Franks (Trustee),A. L. Linderman, E. C. Ramage, F. C. Ziesenheim, W. C. Maurer, J.. F. Laboon, John F. Maxwell, Charlotte E. Kaliler, Marion Burns, John E. Bowler, Wm. II. Norman, Frank J. Lanalian (Trustee), T.B. Chappell, Theron Wasson, L. C. Lustenberger, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Kirkpatrick, Henry Kacliel, Karl Fulton, Elizabeth D. McEwen. 
Marjory Snodgrass.
Two Stars Lost 
From Mitt Team
Beginning his third year as box
ing coach at Carnegie, Ernie Sestois very much excited over his 
chances of putting out a first classcontender this time. Already hehas some of his men working out 
every day in anticipation of a 
strenuous campaign.
His chief handicaps will be thereplacing of two of his best mitt 
flingers, Tom Waldron and Brute 
Wertz, heavyweight and flyweight 
respectively. Waldron dropped out 
of school, and Wertz transferred 
to the University of Colorado,. 
Both these men were severe an
noyances to the competition last 
season.The loss of Waldron, however*, will be greatly offset by the presence of Jack Croissant, who featured in several lcnock-down-anddrag-out bouts last year. He is now playing on the varsity football; team, but he is expected to re
port when the grid season draws: to a close.Among the veterans back in thefold this season are Captain Carr*, an extremely tough welterweight who won most of his bouts last winter, Mike Restaine| a fast lightweight who was out of school the,- preceding semester, and Ralph Atlas; 
bantam star, Abe Konick, who wasa sensation on the freshman squad'- last year, did not return to school..As usual the Sesto men face a. "suicide schedule this year. On 
the books are such teams as West Virginia, Bucknell, Duquesne, Pitt,, and Temple in addition to the an^ uual Eastern Intercollegiate tournament. which will be held at Mor^ gantown.
Coach Howard Jones of the Uni
versity of Southern Californias un
beaten and untied team which has 
bowled over strong opposition 
throughout the far West to earn its second consecutive Pacific Coast championship, will be Christy Walshs guest during the All-America Football Show to be broadcast over the WABC-Columbia network from 9:00 to 9:30 p. m., EST, Friday, December 9. Their interview, taking place on the eve of the meeting in Los Angeles between Jones charges and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, will originate in the studios of KHJ, Columbia outlet in that city. The remainder of the program, including college songs by band and chorus and Harry - von 
Zells football dramatizations, will originate in Columbias New York studios.The results of the Notre DameSouthern California meeting and the Rose Bowl tilt on New Years Day between the latter team and Pitt may answer the question of what team i is entitled to the 
mythical title of National Champions. Jones, Yale graduate of 19OS, starred as an end for the 
Bulldogs and returned to New Haven as a coach immediately after his graduation. 1-Ie lias also coached at Iowa, before going to Southern California, where he has developed consistently powerful teams. Among the players who have learned football under his 
tutelage are such outstanding names as Ted Coy of Yale, Slater and Devine of Iowa, and Drury, Pinclcert and Shaver of Southern California.
George Kavel closed his football career with a blaze of glory by 
scoring four touchdowns against Georgetown.
Tartans Overwhelm Georgetown
By 51-0 Score In Final Contest
Just before the half ended, two more passes, this time by McCurdy, placed the pigskin on the five-yard 
stripe where Spisak, who had replaced the injured Coulter early in the game, carried it over.
Soon after the start of the third stanza, Spisak and Kavel worked 
the ball to the five-yard line, from, which Kavel scored his first touchdown. Sample intercepted a pass 
shortly afterwards and carried the oval 45 yards to the five-yard mark. Here the Tartans resorted to the old sleeper play with Stewart hiding along the sidelines and tak
ing McCurdy's pass for an easy score. The last throe touchdowns were those beautiful broken field efforts of Kavel.
For the Carnegie fans who saw Saturdays game, it was almost impossible to believe that the same team which stumbled through the early seasons games was the club that clicked to perfection against Georgetown. Tartan followers who have faithfully Insisted that the material was there had their convictions aroused in the Pitt and N. Y. U. contests and confirmed In 
the Georgetown rout.Among the seniors who played their final battle Saturday were Co-captain Sample, who completely 
squelched the Iioyas few attempts to get an attack clicking; Red 
Jones, as good a center as there is 
in this section; Siegal and Kebe, two sterling guards; McCurdy and Dueger, the flrst string quarterbacks; Tom Coulter, a flashy halfback who played his first and last season of football; and Tony Ostrosky, one of the best pass receivers in the game.
George Kavel Leads Attack 
By Scoring Four Of 
Eight Touchdowns
With Carnegies greatest half
back running wild in his last col
lege game, the Tartans awoke, 
from the nightmare of stagnation 
that has blighted most of tlieir 
previous contests and handed 
Georgetown University the worst 
defeat in tho latters gridiron his
tory, 51-0. Today all tho Washing
ton football fans can talk of Is 
Kavel, wlio gave tho greatest indi
vidual exhibition of ball carrying 
seen in the Capital for years. 
Carnegies sterling co-captain, who 
has paid with all-American honors tho penalty of playing on a mediocre team, scored just half of Ills team's touchdowns.Kavels longest scoring dash 
carried 99 yards after he had intercepted a 1-Ioya. pass on his own 
one-yard lino and had eluded the entire opposing team, George also turned in runs of 45 and 43 yards 
for scores, both coming after receiving passes and eluding man after man to register the touchdowns.- All of these goalward dashes came in the last quarter after Kavel had hung up his first score on a five-yard slice off tackle in the third period.
Carnegie went after her flrst score early. The Hoyas received 
the kicltoff but were forced to punt. The Skibos marched down the field with Kavel and Coulter carrying the oval, and finally a pass to Stewart placed the bail on the 
five-yard line. Sayles then plunged over and Stewart added the extra point. The second score came as a result of two beautiful passes by Bevevino, one to Tessor good Cor 24 yards and one to Stewart who caught the ball on the 20, eluded several tacklers, and went over.
Smoking is permitted during examinations and at some lectures at the University of North Carolina, which is largely supported by the tobacco industry.
YOUR WORK 
WILL IMPROVE
IF TYPEWRITTEN
LOW-PRICE RENTALS 
TO STUDENTS
FORT PITT
Typewriter Company
(Above ^McCloys)
642-44 LIBERTY AVENUE 
ATLANTIC 8320
rtiegie
tDanEK EW KDMMdryppppp ew 00
.KEDAi MKDMAEio KDRdUA?KV YYs 11(5Finii' downu, ruiiltlntr.___ 10 8
N'umbor o usstballllll ir yo
PiuiBOB com pickd______ .) 0.KEDAi yfMArio MNSSEfpp .8 vgFirst downa, pmiboh____ 1 (i
Number of punts______ 12 7Average dialanco of
punto ------------------------- 3G 35Run back of punts andkMrk-otti _____________ VIS 21
Fumbles _______________ 1 .)
Ball, lost, fumbles_____ 0 3Penalties_______________ 7 8
Ground lost, itenalticH__*15 70
Punts averaged from line of scrim
mage.
N.  Y. U. intercepted four passes. 
Carnegie one pass.
Iiibwtq Engraving Company
our
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST 
Specializing in Examining Eyes and 
Furnishing Glnsses.
"Special Student RateB
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor StreetAt the Temple-Villanova game, cheerers used megaphones equipped with a horn and a bell./a FEW days morethen home for Christmas I 
' I Let the telephone settle your holiday plans, 
(Thats the easy way to make your dates, decide oni 
gifts and tell the family when youll arrive.
Hot/ftAvo/D ONERj*THE OAKLAND 
BANK
Call home tonight! After 8:30 P. M. low Night Ratesgo into effect on Station to Station calls. To take 
advantage of the saving, just give the operator your 
home telephone number.
A GOITER, is
A MUSICAL 
INSTRUMENT
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
T
HERE ought to be a law against 
people like Bill Boner! lie even 
thinks an escapade is a staircase 
outside a house.
Stillhe might be cured, if some
body would convert him to pipe 
smoking. For a good pipe with the 
right tobacco is mans first aid to 
clear thinking and wisdom. As for 
the right tobacco, thats easy. A 
recent investigation showed Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco to be the fa
vorite at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
Just one puff will tell you why. Its 
that truly individual blend of fine 
old hurleys a blend you find only 
in Edgeworth SmokingTobacco. Once 
you try Edgeworth, youll never 
again be satisfied with less.
Inexpensive? These night-time Station to Station 
calls are so low priced you can make it a habit to 
call home regularly once a week. Fix a day and hour. 
Then Mother and Dad will be waiting and you can 
always use Station to Station service.
le resources
the services or ex
perienced officers are 
available to our de
positors
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two 
forms  Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed 
and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes 
15jf.pocket package to pound hu
midor tin. If youd like to try before 
you buy, write for free sample packet. 
Address Larus &
Bro. Co., 120 S. 22d .
St., Richmond, Va.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyrnn
Station to Station Call 
3-Minute Connection Wherever applicable 
Federal tax is included. 
Day Rate Night Rate 
. $0.65 $0.35
From Pittsburgh to:
Altoona ..................Bradford ................Cleveland, Ohio .. Hagerstown, Md. . Youngstown, OhioMEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEMEDGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCO
2
THE
PLAID SPORTS: * jSCREEN
Jgi ImMiBY JOE BRONSON
THE CARNEGIE TECH GRIDDERS BROUGHT THE 1032 FOOTBALL CAMPAIGN to a blazing climax on Saturday when they trounced 
tho supposedly strong Georgetown eleven by the overwhelming score 
of 51-0. It was tho worst defeat suffered by the Hoyas In their fiftyclght years of gridiron history. They had a big and fast team but 
never in the sixty mlnutec of play could'they check the strong running 
and passing attack which tho Tartans flashed; That certain something 
which has been missing from the Skibos playing all year finally came 
forth and helped make the game the best the Plaid have engaged in 
this year. It would have taken the best team in the country to stop 
the determined Steffenltes on Saturday. Only once during the ontire 
contest was Georgetown ever able to penetrate deeply into the Tartan 
territory and that was late in the last quarter when a passing attack 
advanced the ball to the eighteen-yard line, but there it stopped. 
During the first half the Hoyas were able to net only six yards. Car
negie ran up a total of twenty-one first downs against their opponents 
eight. Eight touchdowns wore scored of which four were made by 
Kavel, two by Stewart, one by Spisak, and one by Sayles.
CO-CAPTAINS GEORGE KAVEL AND HOOKS SAMPLE must have 
gotten a lot of pleasure out or winding up their footbull careers at 
Carnegie with such a smashing victory. It was the most decisive vic
tory gained all year, and it is certainly fitting that it should have hap
pened in their last game. Ceorge Kavel carried that plgslcln in a man
ner never seen before in Washington. Before the game Georgle needed 
four touchdowns to bring him up to the top in scoring in the Tri-State 
district; and when the game was over George had gained those four 
touchdowns. Ho wus just a demon and could hardly be stopped. 
Three of his touchdowns were the results of runs of -10, 45, and 99 
yards. On the run of 40 yards, Kavel was tackled by almost every 
Georgetown player, but he succeeded in getting away from them all 
and crossed tho final clialkmarlc standing up. His 99-yard run in the 
last few minutes was probably the most exciting of them all. A 
Georgetown pass, meant for a touchtown play, was snatched from the 
receivers hands on tho one-yard line by Kavel, who started up the 
sideline, reversed his field; then headed for the lino again and outran 
all would-be tacklers. "Hooks Sample repeated Ills marvelous play
ing of the Pitt and New York University games and added a little 
extra for good measure. He was seldom taken completely out of a 
play and more than once Hooks crashed through the Hoyas line to 
throw tho runner for a loss. Tls going to be a tough job trying to fill 
the positions left vacant by llieBe two stellar players.
THE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY JINX which is becoming almost as 
bad as the old Wash-Jeff jinx was against the Tartans on Thanksgiving 
Day when the New YorkctB downed the Plaid 13-G. It was one of those 
games which make one really feel bad about losing. For three quar
ters of the game the Plaid had the game all their own way. Sayles 
and Kavel wero ripping huge holes In the Violet line, and Coulter was 
skirting the ends. Twice In the first quarter the Tartans got down to 
the ten-yard line and In the second quarter they were never out of the 
New Yorkers territory. And, when in tho third quarter a drive of 
forty-five yards and n fifteen-yard penalty making It sixty yards netted 
six points for the Tartans It looked like a sure victory for the Tartans. 
But fate had other things In store. The rest of the game reads like a 
Dick Merriwell otory. Benton and battered for three quartern, the 
Violet came back In the last quarter to score 13 points and a victory. 
Big Jim Tanguay wna the hero of the day. Tanguay who several years 
ngo was hailed an a wonder, but who had failed so often to live up to 
hla reputntlon that he was demoted to second team, was almost un
noticed when ho entered the game as a sub In tho last quarter. But 
Jim noon brought the fans to their feet by throwing two accurate 
passes, ono of whloli was forty yards and the other thirty yards, both 
of which were good for touchdowns. These two passes wero the only 
two heaven out of sixteen attempts that gained ground but they were 
good enough to give tho New Yorkers tho sixth victory In seven games 
with the Plaid.
WMl'ON TTTIO FINAL WllISTLlfl BLIflW in the Georgetown gnino II not only brought to an end the football game, but It also brought to u dose tho football caroor of! nlno Carnoglo Tool Seniors. Captains Kavel and Sample wero not tho only ono who will bo absent from tho team next year. Quarterbacks Dougor and McCurdy *.w111 graduate this year. Tho other brickfield men to be lost is Tom Coulter, who has played but one year of football, yet who haw shown enough form to become a regular In tho last throe games, There are four line men who played their last game against Georgetown. Curly Siegal, center; Tony Kepbo, guard; "Sholts" Croissant, tackle, and Tony Ostrosky, end.; all of whom finish school In the' spring. Many of those hoys have not gotten tho credit thoy have deserved. For four years they have spent many hours at practice and have taken lots of punishment scrimmaging with the regulars and attempting to Improve tho first team. Thoy seldom complain about tho consideration they received, but our hat is off to them. They are the fellows who make the team what it is.
LAST WEEK THE FOOTBALL TEAM GOT TOGETHER AND 
PICKED AN ALL-OPPONENTS TEAM. An All-Opponents team
while not having the prestige of an All-American really means more 
to the fellows who are right in there playing than does the latter. 
When you are chosen on such a team it means that the fellows whom 
you have played against, and with whom you have come in bodily con
tract, think that you are the best they have met. It seems to me that 
such an honor should mean more than one picked by a bunch of type
writer punchers who sit high and dry in the press box every week. 
Anyhow, the men chosen by the Tartans as being the best they have 
faced this year are:Kosky............................................................................................Left End, Notre Dame
Krause...................................................................................Left Tackle, Notre Dame
Hartwig ...............................................................................................Left Guard, Pitt
Gray..................................................................... ......................................Center, W. & J.Wiethe...........................................................................................Right Guard, Xavier
Kurth...................................................................................Right Tackle, Notre Dame
Daily...........................................................................................................Right End, Pitt
Grahame .....................................................................................Quarterback, Geneva
Heller.............................................................................................................Left Half, Pitt
Koken.....................................................................................Right Half, Notre Dame
McNamara............................................................................................Fullback, N. Y. U.
Honorable mention: Cuba, Cooper, Kohler, Tormey, Brancheau, 
Jaskovhich, Wienstock.George Kavel has been named on every All-Opponent team which 
has appeared to date. He has been picked on Pitts, W. & J.s and 
Temples. Three Carnegie men appeared on Temples team. They 
were: Kavel, Sample, and Foresman.
SINCE EVERY SCRIBE MUST PICK AN ALL-AMERICAN TEAM and since-1 have not done mb as yet; next week you will And listed in this column the team chosen by yours truly as being the best ono avallablo in tho country. The team which I have chosen differs quite roadlly from most other ones which 1 have soon, but 1 think there will bo fewer people ready to scalp me than Is tho case aftoi most of the soloctlons. So, watch this column and next Tuesday and you will noo 
tho team of teams.
COACH ERNIE SESTO has had his boxers out working for some little 
while so Manager Harold Pressman announces. But at tho present 
time there have been no positions picked and there Is an excellent 
chance for any one who comes out to make tho team. There are only 
two varsity men back from last year so It loaves a big gap for Conch 
Sesto to fill; especially in view of tho difficult schedule which has 
been arranged with teams In the new conference. So all mon, fresh
men or varsity, who are Interested In going out for tho team should 
report to the aforementioned Mr. Pressman, at the Gymnasium Imme
diately.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT HAS BEEN MADE that Big Don Fletcher and Miss Marjory Taylor were married in the brides home on tho twentyfifth of November. Don Fletcher played three years of varsity football at Carnegie and was one of the best tackles in the district last year. At the present time Don is teaching and coaching at the Appalachian High school in West Virginia.
WE WISH TO APOLOGIZE FOR A MISTAKE that we made in the 
issue preceding the Pitt game. We said that Eddie Baker was captain 
of Pitts eleven last year. Victor Mathis corrected us on this\point 
and said the captain was Hirshberg. After a little meditation we be
lieve he is right; so thanks, Chicago.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6. 10323
Student Deplores 
Unfair Tagging 
Of Parked Cars
Nation Suffers 
In Grip Of All 
American Fever
Hunger Marches 
Draws Criticism
First Dance Of 
New Season Is 
Very Successful
College Degree 
Not Necessary To 
Achieve Success
Mass production has extended 
itself into the field of education. 
Today some fifteen hundred uni
versities and colleges are giving 
degrees every year. This surely 
is mass education and every grad
uate believes that his sheepskin will open the portals to a new life. Herein lies the fallacy of the degree.
A degree does not and never can do any such thing. It is merely a record that a student has passed successfully a prescribed course of a. certain grade or ranlc. A holder 
of a bachelors degree is soon made to realize that no success can be had until a masters degree has been obtained, and getting this degree, he goes on for a doctors degree, perhaps. But does the holding of the various degrees necessarily make the possessor a better man or woman.
Views Often NarrowedOne often finds that the possessor of a doctors degree is very narrow in his viewpoint and general outlook on life. They are too much engrossed with their specialized field and have little time to devote upon other topics. 
Perhaps this is due to the specialized education which they receive while studying for their degree. The curriculum surrounding the attainment of advanced degrees is of such a narrow nature that there is little wonder a storm of antagonism has arisen among candi
dates.The necessity for an advanced degree of some sort is fast increasing. A great many schools require 
applicants ft>r teaching positions to have a doctors degree before they will engage them.'The decision to earn a degree because of the nature of the subjects necessary for the particular degree does not imply that the student will grasp a clearer and finer outlook on life. Unfortunately these subjects are almost entirely neglected. Although the subjects which tend to broaden one along cultural and intellectual subjects are offered, the mad rush seems to be to specialize, and this attitude by its very nature tends to narrow ones viewpoint. Where are the students who believe that education, is primarily to show us how to live aright? Why even the instructors seem to overlook this point in education and give more weight to the subject in hand rather'than to the ultimate goal. Education seems to be just a means of getting a job or a better salary.
Student Must Adapt SelfThe student has thrust upon him a formidable array of subjects and 
facts. How is he to order them. Nothing is said or don about the lack of harmony between education and living. He is left to arrange this question for himself as best he can, and then when the inevitable breakdown of our higher strata of society occurs we all wonder why. The conclusion must be arrived at that the obtaining of degrees does not necessarily mean the setting up of any sort of a standard of values.
DIDJA NOTICEIRk BKEaN RHNDKA 
GW LMrkHN TfUHRTHAT were back again after 
two weeks absence. Just like 
a bad penny, always turning up. 
Oh yea!
THAT history repeats itself 
and the Thanksgiving Recess 
Dance was a great success. 
Well, if you werent there you 
missed a great time and its 
your own fault.
THAT hundreds of night stu
dents are looking wise after 
the mid-semester exams which 
have been prominent the past 
week or so. Guess some are 
happy, and some are, oh well.
THAT you have about three 
weeks left to do your Christ
mas shopping. Just a little re
minder in case you should for
get.
THAT were warning you to 
keep your eyes open for people 
with suspicious looking boxes, 
not that the boxes mean any
thing, but if the experience is 
shocking, well, its your own 
fault for being so trusting.
THAT the silhouetted figure 
used at the dance was resting 
his chin on his hands and not 
thumbing his nose.
That you have to get down on 
the floor to shake hands with 
some people.
THAT those Industries boys 
certainly are doing their darndest to impress a little lass 
from the Arts School. And. oh 
boy, how she can handle them.
THAT we get a big kick hear
ing the boys say to a certain 
well known individual, "Here's 
a good one for youDidja No
tice? Heh, heh, Barnum was 
right.
THAT were letting you in on 
a big secret. Christmas vaca
tion will soon be here and with 
it another opportunity to do 
some of that night work you 
necessarily must neglect while 
going to night school.
THAT George's place must 
be a popular rendezvous these 
days for the Industries boys. 
How about it, Schultz, when are 
you going to give us the by
word?
THAT a well known Indus
tries stand-by was absent from 
our last social affair. Betcha it 
was some party trouble. See 
us next time, old man, weve got 
some swell numbers.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
seenya.
Hunger marches, so-called, are 
beginning to converge on the na
tions capital, each marcher in the 
ranks probably being moved by a 
different principle. Tlio exact 
reason for performing such a 
march seems to be a bit. obscure. 
Perhaps, it is desire for travel, 
again, it may be in hopes that the 
Government will be brought to 
some realization or other by the 
presence of a large group of selfstyled unfortunates in the capital, 
then again, it may be just for the 
pleasure of being chased from one 
town to the next, with the possi
bility of tear gas and cavalry wait
ing at the end of the journey.
No matter what the motive is, 
these marches seem inane. The 
possible good that might accrue 
from the presence of all these ad
ditional protests against the de
pression seem to be offset by the additional load that is thrown upon the communities passed through, the ever present possibility of disturbance, and the absolute lack of coordination that marks all of 
these affairs.
In the first place, the Government is in no position to do anything about individual cases anyway, and the various groups on the march certainly do not represent a fair cross section of the country. And, anyhow, suppose they did represent the nation as a whole. What good could comg of such actions? Aside from the activat
ing motives of the marchers being
Ticket returns for the Thanks
giving Recess Dance are re
quested. These returns should 
be sent to John F. Simpson, 
Treasurer, Night Student Coun
cil, Box 137 C. I. T. By placing 
in the inter-school mail slot in 
the basement of Administration 
Hall no postage will be neces
sary. Ticket sales count to
wards the insignia award, and 
the prompt return of the sales 
will, aid in posting credit 
earned.
For the past four or five weeks 
the writer lias noticed that cars 
have been parked on both sides of 
the drive paralleling Industries 
and it was assumed that the ban 
had been lifted. However, during 
the last week somebody got ex
cited and passed out parking slips 
promiscuously. I say this because 
I have been the recipient of one of 
these tags notwithstanding the 
fact that I have been parking in 
the same location for a number of 
years and nothing had ever been 
indicated that parking was pro
hibited in this section.
The question arose in my mind, 
was this wholesale tagging ethical 
or justifiable since the ban had ap
parently been liftedin order that 
parking accommodations could be 
provided for some temporary ac
tivity. If this is not the case, then 
why was the practice allowed to 
gain such momentum that it be
came prevalent.
There would be no cause for. 
complaint if everyone was held to 
the same regulation, or if the city 
code of parking regulations calls 
for the parking ban in the Schenley district and this ban was enforced. The distasteful part about the whole situation is that no uni
form policy exists. At intervals during the night school year I 
have noticed that on certain occasions cars are parked along the side claimed to be restricted and no tags are handed out. An investigation might disclose that the wholesale tagging of last week was perhaps not justified and that the parties who were so tagged could have the tags satisfied by reporting thereon to the proper authorities.I should appreciate having this 
protest printed in the Tartan both as a warning and a complaint with the thought in mind that some concerted action may be taken to relieve the parking situation which exists on the campus especially as far as the night students are concerned. We are limited for time and surely something should be done to make available every space to us for parking our cars.
We see by the papers that a co ed 
editor has chosen the All-American 
face. Dont be alarmed, it isnt a 
face composed of an English fore
head, a Balkan nose, a German 
mouth, a French chin, or other 
parts representing the. various 
races and nationalities that go to 
make up our population. It. hap
pens to be an All-American' foot
ball team, the members of which 
were chosen 011 their facial attri
butes. Just like a woman, to docide an important question like 
who should be on the All-American 
by whether they (the players) are handsome or not. However, we must give the little lady credit. The names appearing 011 her list would make a pretty powerful gridiron combination at that.This is an entirely new angle 011 the all prevalent question of the All-American. Why not expand it? We could have All-American hamburger emporiums (wait'll theGreek restaurant pilots hear of this!), All-American night classes, 
Science departments, street carcrews, etc., the individual members of which would be chosen Lrom the various hamburger shops, brain foundries, college faculties, and
street car operators from all over the country.Some day, well speak to theeditor about it. Instead of a longdistance traveling night studentcontest like last year's touching competition, we could try to have an All-American something orother. At least, the ideas original, 
and therefore worth trying. (N.B. In.the event that the contest 
should be to decide upon an AllAmerican mind-your-own-business team, the author of DIDJA NOTICE is barred from competition.)
The Night Student Council held 
the first dance of the season in 
the nature of the Thanksgiving 
Recess Dance 011 November 2fi in 
the auditorium of the Mens Gym
nasium.
Those who attended the party 
were surprised at the wonderful display of color presented by the decorations employed and it 
showed what the workers 011 the Council activities are accomplishing.
Bill Kulesz and his Kilties furnished a brand of music which was as line as any ever heard at a dance. The number of requests and the tempo of the performers certainly went a long way in establishing the reputation of the band.The unique program which was reflected 011 the large curtain draping the stage Avas an innovation 
and was the cause of considerable admiration for its execution, it was typical of the colonial times when the spirit of thanksgiving with its festivities prevailed.The dance was well attended and the hour for closing came all too soon for the guests. All left with the expressed desire to attend the next, function held by the council.
They say that a littje vacation 
hurts no one, but I am here to 3ay. 
that it does, because I have become 
so rusty that I can hardly hold my 
pen, and as for typewriting this 
article, well I simply couldnt. 
At all events, we had a vacation, 
even if it was only two days, and 
that they are all over now. But 
just wait, there are more coming 
and maybe some of the night stu
dents wont be glad.
1 chanced to come out on the 
campus the other day, really it 
was day time, and you can imagine 
my astonishment at seeing what 
really was behind the walk along 
the cut. I was always under the 
impression that the end of space 
existed at the margin established 
by the shrubs and trees which line 
the walk. I was wrong. Yes, I 
had to rub my eyes several times 
for they had decapitated the trees. 
It was a sorry looking spectacle 
which ! beheld. Tall, gaunt, de
nuded stumps, lined up in tomb
stone fashion, instead of the long 
flowing branches of foliage. Ill 
bet this slaughter was the aftermath of Fritzs sojourn in Europe, 
for where else would he get the 
idea to hackle the campus.
The removal of the heads of the 
trees did one thing, however, and 
that was permit one to see what 
was down in the valley. I was 
astonished to note that there was a 
tennis court, dog kennels, and sev
eral other things, not at all what 
one would expect to see, but then 
the unexpected seems to be popu
lar right now.
Were you at the ThanksgivingDance of the Night Student Coun
cil? Well, if you werent, you 
missed a great treat. All the big 
shots were around and the dance 
came off in great style. The band 
was one of the best to play, and 
the Kilties with Kuleszs players 
certainly did themselves credit. 
The hall is a mighty big one and 
when those who attend can have 
a good time, well then they must 
have enjoyed themselves. Sounds 
ambiguous, but then one cant be 
too ambiguous when talking about 
a night school dance.I noticed that the dance crashed 
through to the front page too.  Guess our editors arent stepping out tc rate such popularity. Speaking of the paper brings me once again tosaying that I think the Tartan is about the best ever. No it isnt because of my wisdom, etc.. 
hut because of the great amount of work somebody must do to make
Economist Urges 
Change In Views 
For Better Deal
Economists, writers, business 
men, and almost every other per
son who has thought at all about 
the subject has presented his ideas 
on what is wrone with the world 
and how to cure the ills. Two 
methods of procedure are evident.First a radically new policy of industrial, economical, and social relationship, and second, a return to some previous state of existence in which life is not so complicated with the standard of living lowered 
somewhat.If the first course were adopted, 
our present methods of living would be possible. If the second course were followed there would be a return to a smaller self-sustaining unit resulting in a somewhat different but more stable form of existence.
Economists are too prone to speak about money standards, over
production, and low prices without thinking that the fundamental basis of our entire system may be at fault. Granted that economists 
view conditions as they exist and catalogue them accordingly, the 
conditions themselves may be entirely wrong. If so, then the system of economics itself is false since it follows a false standard.
States Cause of Ills 'One of the clearest expositions of the fundamental cause of the 
ills of society lias been stated by Professor Walker of England. He claims that the vested interests have constantly blocked the way to improvement, and the three outstanding causes for the existing wrongs are poverty in material possession, poverty in outlook, and the Incompetency of the leaders.Mr. Walker ridicules the idea that low prices mean bad business. 
.When prices are low it should be evidence of sound economical manufacture and distribution. This should result in a higher standard of living. High prices usually mean a larger profit to someone, 
either the manufacturer  01* distributor.
The main business of the world should not be to buy and to sell, but to make the things that menwant and to distribute them in the simplest and most economical way. 
Much food for thought is presented in the study of these problems. 
They  should be attacked from a fundamental standpoint. It remains for society at large to be
come so educated and prepare itself that it may sometime see the reality and force in the arguments presented.
satisfied to a certain extent, they might just as well stay home and starve, if necessary. Tlio bread lines in Washington are already well enough patronized without 
any outsiders trying to make matters Avorse by increasing the load 
on the taxpayers of any district.
At Skibo Irm, today and tomorrow, youll find 
Bill Charlow, of Stetson D, eager to acquaint 
you with something' new in made-to-measure 
suits; . . . COLONIAL HOMESPUNS, an out
standing' accomplishment in fabrics. With every 
Homespun Suit at $27.50 youll receive an 
extra pair of trousers without extra cost . . . 
a $41.00 value for only $27.50.
Bill Charlow will also display a complete line of 
fall and winter suits, topcoats, overcoats and 
Tuxedos, from $22.50 up. Dont forget to see 
him at Skibo Inn, December 7th and 8th.
Council Chooses 
New Officers
At a recent meeting held by the Night Student Council the election tor office of Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer took place which resulted In Henry A. Schwartz being elected vice president, Chester J. Biscup, secretary, and John F. Simpson, treasurer. 
The election of president talcos place in the spring of the year and William R. I-lodder was elected last spring to that position.______
and processes. He nees a realization of the complexity of the economic mechanism of which we are all parts. He' must see that it is not philanthropy to assure people 
of employement at fair wages: that the things which his skill devises and produces are incomplete until they reach their ultimate users: and that matters as far reaching as these can scarcely be left to chance.Whatever direction the actual trend of events may take, individual success will certainly be strongly influenced by ones ability to adapt liimself to a larger degree of control than has here before been known. Those who understand the major trends can rise with them*; those who assume that the future will duplicate the past are certain to be left behind.I understand that Puppet was a 
walkout. At least It was a walk
out for me, because 1 was unable 
to get a copyThey simply went 
like hot cakes. I tried every place 
to get a copy but they were all 
gone. And to 'think that I didnt 
get a chance to read What was 
enveloped in the yellow envelope* 
My curiosity has been so aroused 
that I won't leave a stuident un
turned until I find out What it was 
all about, -so friends and enemiei 
beware.Glad that those pesky exams are over. You know, 1 hate the thought of such cruelty to students. Why cant some system be evolved 
whereby all you have to do is to look at a student and you will know "whether he knows his saibject or not. That would be an idea, wouldn't it?
I may be in a fog about my 
studies, but who we.-uldnt be with 
such black weather as we have 
:had. I hardly knew whether it was 
day or night, and really found 
myself walking over to the earnpus at three oclock thinking it 
was seven-thirty. Everything 1 
touched became black and it 
wouldn't be much of an effort to 
obtain enough soot to paint a pic
ture in carbon with the amount of 
.carbon which floated in the air.
Survey Indicates 
Change In Industry
Continued 'From Pago 1 *
.dies by .this group will reinforce their tentative assumption that a shift must be made to a more stable organization of industry. The alternative woitld certainly be lees desirable. This was predieted years ago by Vebleu, the economist;, who was partially responsible fox this -survey. He pointed out that dihe increasing complexity oi industry would reach a. point beyond the capacity for control of any but the technological expert.Whatever may be the accuracy or error in these predictions, the fact is evident even to the more 
casual observer that the changes now developing in our economic 
'Structure are vastly more drastic than those associated with past depressions. Students now in Carnegie, and in other schools, will have to enter an industry which 
in many -ways will not he like t&at described in their text fcooks. Possibly the success or failure of oar industrial society in the. next few decades will come down in the end to a matter of adjustment. We realize now the need for some adjustment which will
equalize tihe number of applicants for work and the number of opportunities for work. We shall eventually see (that tills is not accomplished permanently by making two or three men share one job. We have proposed a popular maxim that mass consumption must accompany mass production. How this is to be brought about is not so simple to explain. Adjustments are needed in the control of price movem6nts, in the vast realm of international economic relationships, and in use of the resources of nature.Technical persons generally bold a distrust of situations involving very much of the human factor. It cannot be reduee to an exact 
formula. That a few engineers of standing should invade the realm of business study is significant. It shows itlhat a new social understanding is in process ,of germination. It also serves as an unmistakeable arrow of direction to technical -students. ' No longer can a, engineer be adequately prepared by the study of -machines
All Makes 
Sold and Rented
SPECIAL RATES 
TO STUDENTS
Agency 
UNDERWOOD 
ROYAL 
REMINGTON 
and 
CORONA 
PORTABLES
Standard 
Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone: ATlantic 0342 
Corona Personal 
Writing Machines
THE PILGRIMS 
FIRST WINTER
**Nature in the Rawas portrayed by Herbert Roesc, cele
brated painter... inspired by the 
bitter hardships endured by 
Americas first settlers in their 
conflict with raw, wild nature 
(1620). "Nature in the Raiv is 
SeldomMildand raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes.
FULTON
| Starts Thurs., Dec.PatronizeA jcorchmg Komance 
That Sizzles With 
Dramatic Bomb Shells
SHOULDaging and mellowing, are 
then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purify
ing process, described by 
the words"Its toasted. 
Thats why folks in every 
city, town and hamlet say 
that Luckies are such mild 
cigarettes.
AdvertisersTELL?
With This Wonder Cast 
of Celebrities
H. B. WARNER 
EVELYN RRENT
LEW CODY 
NED SPARKS 
WALTER BYRON 
MARCELINE DAY
A love story that smashes 
all conventions and bares 
the lives and loves of women
LdfN frkfgH EW aMUi LDrkMHR

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. DECEMBER 6. 1932
artie dTaruccjie Sfattati
EiMNEKVIAVdMHWVVVVVVV
SDRMAHRR MfAAgHK p
BHGtE MIYFLGWER g.00 
IWNHK GWWMrH HEDKR fUU 
TrdHAUHy 9VYe6 TEKNR EiMNEK.ppppHfzHU 9swe BUfMi EiMNEK..TrdHAUHy 95v0
EDILG RVItVHIEFVVJGHt W. LIDD
ppppJGTEBH . SRGtTGtVEDWIRD E. MrDGtILI)
Victorian Age 
Melodrama To 
Open Tonight
Drama Department Will 
Present The TicketOf-Leave Man
ITTGIILE EDILGRT 
Ey EiMNEKR: dKMRNMAH LHUgdED IUDaAM EiMNEK: HHAKMHNNf TNHMAnHKgDEUUy IUUMREA ExrdfAgH EiMNEKM: MfK?EKMH DEDgdHKNyHfKKy HECHK RDNd BdMUUMRIRRMgAaHAN EiMNEK: IANdEAy fKAvfUH
MItI.It. SGIRD LHIT ITTUE 
JEdA HMUNzo EiaDAi MrEKaMrko IUMrH HHAzMo LEKHNNf EAUMA.
JUtIGR EDILGRT: JERHd IifaSo IANdEAy frrdMEAHo LEKHNNf EAUMAo IUMrH HHAzMo 
JEdA HMUNzo EiaDAi MrEKaMrko TfaDHU WMrkRo JfrrMDH MMAAENNH.
TBEIIL WRILERT: MfKy .MrDUUEDgdo TNfANEA WMUUMfaR.
ILHLELI TLIFF: .UEKMf KIEERo WEaHAR EiMNEK; tHi TNMKUMAgo JEdA LECHRo
JfaHR HfUWHKNy. JHKKy HfARHAo UMWNEA fKK.
BLIID TLIFF: JfaHR H. TfAREAHNNMo tHCR EiMNEK; FKfAk fRRHUo I. t. EvHARo H 
E. Mr.fAAEA. xIDVERLITIt. TLIFF: JfaHR E. TNfdUo MfAfgHK; WMUUMfa WfUiafAo IRRMRNfAN; 
MEKNEA .fKaMRHo WMUUMfa MrKHAAfo EigfK MHyHKo JHKEaH E. KfHU.
IRULILIGt TLIFF: WMUUMfa FMAgUfRRo MfAfgHK; TMiAHy FHUiafAo LHEAfKi RE
RHAnHKgo IUnHKN BKyrHVJEAHRo InH LHMzMg.
REBGRLERT: MfKgfKHN .KMWWMAo VHKEAMrf IvUEERo IAAf Lfiio LdHUaf TdHUUHyo .HKNKDiH SKHfkRNEAH. JfyAH HHAiHKREAo BHNHK BfDUDRo HfKEUi SfHKo JfAAHNNH SUfrko MfKMfA MfUfkEWFo .CHA HfiiErko RDNd .DRNfWREAo JfAH MMUUHKo REy MMAHNo VMK
gMAMf TMHgHUo WMUUMfa LfAiRnHKgo JfAH LMvMAgRNEAo DfvMREA IKEAR.
LYBITLT: LDrMUUH JfrEnRo IAA KfDWafAo TfKfd BfNNHKEAo LMUUMfA DMfaEAio TfKfd 
FKMHiafA.
A Word To The Rusliee
The fraternity rushing season is nearly over md freshmen 
should have reduced the number of houses they wish to consid
er to two or three. This is important since the rushing season 
is short and it is impossible to make a. satisfactory decision 
unless this procedure is followed. Freshmen should not hesitate 
to break dates with houses which they do not wish to consider. 
The fraternities expect the rushees to do so, for it is to the ad
vantage of both the rushees -and the different fraternity groups 
for the' rushees know the members of. the two or three groups 
better and for the fraternities to learn more about the interests 
and ambitions of the rushees.
In selecting a. fraternity, the rusliee should bear in mind 
certain things which will help him to choose the right group. 
Following is a part of the contents of an editorial which ap
peared in the last Tartan:
The selection of a fraternity should be done with care. 
Too often men are rushed headlong into a fraternity life which 
will later be disappointing. This glitter of shining trophies and 
the palatial fraternity house do not constitute the whole of 
fraternity life and they should not overshadow the ideals of 
fellowship and congeniality. In selecting a fraternity, one 
must realize that he is choosing a group with which he must live 
.for the rest of his school life. Their ideals and interests should 
be the same as his, for otherwise he will be unhappy.
There are several important things which should be consid
ered in selecting a fraternity (some of the following were men-, 
tioned in Mr. Risedorphs talk):
1. The congeniality of the members. Is it natural or ar
tificial ?
2. The ideals and interests of the group.
3. The personality of the members.
j 4. The scholastic standing, denoting conditions for studyj  ing.
5. The financial stability of the house.
6. Is the group well rounded?
As Mr. Risedorpli put it, be not misled by gilt tassels. Se
lect the fraternity with care, for fraternity life will be of great 
value to you if you choose the right group.
To the list should be added the important question,do you 
i*eel at home in the different fraternity houses?
(Continued From Page One) 
taken seriously by the Victorian audience. *
An indication of the delightful quality of this melodrama can be gotten from the titles of the acts: Art I, The Dangers of a Great City; Act II, Kind Hearts are more a Coronets; Act II. O! What a Tangled' Web We Weave; Act Scene 1, The End of the Tether; Scene 2, In the Street; Scene 3, Escape from the Toils.
Music, songs, and dances will add to the brisk performance promised by the Department of Drama. Miss Bernice Austin has generously arranged the music) for the trio which she will direct at the piano, with Walter Derdeyn playing the cello and Ben Yaffe the violin. William Bales is producing the dances.
Vernon Crane is the assistant to the director. The cast of players as follows: Bob BrierlyThomas Gorman, Edward Kelly; Jem DaltonFranklin Heller. Williem Roos; Hawkshaw  John Dawson, Don Gallagher; Melter Moss  William Bales, Emanuel Breakstone; Green JonesRobert Gill, Raymond Neyliart; Mr. GibsonWilliam Beal, Edward Pal lcot; Sam WilloughbyMargaret Goldberg, Helen Sisenwain; MaltbyWilliam Belirse, Harry Schofield; First partyWalter Derdeyn, Edward Harmle; Second party  Charles Frost, ' William Haviland; WaitersDeLisle Crawford, George McCalmon; DetectivesBoyd Crawford, Barry Mulligan; May Edwards  Harriet Weller, Jane Witmer; Emily St. Evremond  Irene Cowan, Mary 
Rowles; Mrs. Willoughby  Jean Dahl, Henrietta Siskin; Policemen Edwin Copper, Maynard Samsen; Lady guestsJanet Feather, Mary Hamilton, Audrey Kelley, 
Patti Littell.
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
BUY AMERICAN and help end 
the depression, would be a better 
slogan to help end this present 
maladjustment than any of numer
ous cries for beer and liquor. The 
British government said Buy 
British and soon the entire Brit
ish Empire was echoing with Buy 
British. When an entire nation 
is aroused to the point where it 
buys its home products before 
those of foreign competitors, the 
need for high tariff disappears. If 
the people of this country would 
see through our conditions of un
employment they might perhaps 
see that it is better to pay a few 
cents more for an American made 
product than to save that amount 
by purchasing some imported com
modity. Every cent spent in the 
United States for a product made 
at hon.e remains in this country 
and puts another man-back to 
work. With the new low levels 
reached by European currencies a 
barrage of foreign steel, rubber 
goods, milk and cotton, small toi
let goods, fish''and numerous other 
items have been flung over our, 
so called, tariff wall. Buy Amer
ican is a better protection for the 
American worker than a tariff wall 
built to the sky.
Figures Are Facts 
To prove our point, let us look 
over a few of the import figures 
for tiie past year. We find that 
370,000 tons of cheap foreign steel 
were literally dumped into the 
United States market in 1931. 
Most of this came via boats be
longing to European countries. It 
takes approximately four days of 
one mans labor to produce one 
ton of steel. You can easily see 
how tremendous tho loss was in 
this field alone. About $5,000,000 
worth of good United States cur
rency was exchanged for Japanese 
and Czechoslavian rubber goods. 
Thus one might state many other 
examples with similar irritating 
data. Inasmuch as the British 
are buying. British and the French 
are buying French while they are 
also selling to CHA we have no
other choice than to BUY AMER
ICAN.
A Five Year Plan 
When communism is operating 
smoothly after the end of the five 
year plan, which incidentally is 
not so far off, the U. S. S. R. pre
dicts that strikes, starvation and 
discontent among the  workers 
will disappear. However, like 
many other new plans, everything 
in it does not seem to click. The 
decline of agriculture and cattle 
breeding has arrived at the state 
where Stalin is very much worried 
about his source of food for his 
millions of comrade workers. The 
legalized selling by the peasants 
has led to almost . prohibitive 
prices. Consequently, several 
strikes in this strike-proof coun
try were evident and were stopped 
before they had gained sufficient 
momentum to achieve their aim. 
Now that government can no long
er control the prices of food they 
are proportionately higher than 
wages. With the termination of 
the five year plan not far off it is 
a question whether it will succeed 
or not. Arter it endswhat next 
More About Japan 
According to the Japanese press, 
the League of Nations has in hand 
much information which was ob 
tained from questionable sources 
and tends to incriminate the Ja
panese government in its recent relationship with the Chinese gov ernment. They also claim that since the Lytton Report was prepared before the establishment of the state of M.anchulco, its value is overestimated. The men representing Japan in the League request that the case be considered in the light of what they claim to be the actual facts. Their strongest claim is based on the fact that they did not consider the Chinese government as existent. What the outcome will be is debatable, 
repetition can be best avoided by definitely deciding the exact status of the Chinese government in order that Japan can no longer make the type of claims which she has presented before the League in re
cent weeks. Now that the League of Nations has a chance to demonstrate its worth I wonder what the outcome will be.
DRAMA REVIEW
By ELMER KENYON
INTERCOLLEGIATE
CLIPS
According to a psychologist at he University of Buffalo, married persons are more nervous than 
college students.
Notwithstanding this, college students seem to be receiving every encouragement to marry. A professor at the University of Oregon says that all college students hohld be married. Academic standards would be heightened, he laims, because the time used to base the wily It could be more profitable put to study.
The Arizona Wildcat further en
courages the students by publishing the report that, according to lie Institute of Family Relations, 
one out of every six marriages ends in divorce, while only one in every seventy-five made in colleges 
crashes.
Those who have a feeling for 
the charm of Irish literature will 
need no urging to attend as many 
as possible of the plays to be offer
ed in the Nixon Theater during 
the week of December 12 by the 
Irish Players. Those who have 
followed developments in the thea
ter during the past thirty years 
know that the Abbey Theater in 
Dublin is regarded by many as the 
fountain head of the Little Thea
ter movement in the Englishspeaking world, and that through 
its actors and dramatists it has 
become internationally famous.
Last year, the company visited America under concert and lyceurit managements and fared so well that the Dresent tour is largely over the theatrical circuit. Though the Nixon Theater is about four times as large as the Abbey, it ought not to be too large for all the people of these parts who profess to have a sense of humor. It 
is to the Irish that humor is most often credited and, whether we like it or not, the best comedies in the English language have been written by Irishmen. So perhaps the point to stress here is not the unique quality of the naturalistic acting or of the vivid characterization accomplished by the play
wrights (both rare delights) but the sheer fun of looking at life through merry Celtic eyes.
Monday Night, December 12; Also 
Saturday Matinee, December 17The New Gossoon is. the Irish version of the tilt between the younger generation and the older, with a shower of delightfully happy observations on how both youth and age are subjected to scrutiny by the mere fact of their living in 
Ireland. Few plays are more simple, yet few plays are animated by more pungently individualized characters  a hint of the special gift of the author. George Sliiels. 
Tuesday Night, December 13; Also 
Friday, Night, December 16"The Far-off Hills are the wishes that we imagine simply must be realizedonly that when they can be, our zest has gone. Besides, says Lennox Robinson as he teases his characters, it is very embarrassing to admit that we no longer want what we had thought we wanted.
Wednesday Matinee, December 14The White-Headed Boy, although called by its author, Lennox Robinson, on his last visit to Pittsburgh a little thing which I wrote in a few weeks, is more accurately to be included among the best dozen comedies in the language. Played in Pittsburgh at the Nixon many years ago during a Lenten week by many of the original Abbey players, it must be a bright memory to every one of the corporals guard who saw it.
Wednesday Night, December 14Juno and the Paycock, for all its wayward humors, tells of things in Dublin tenement life during the stressful days of 1922 that do lie too deep for. tears." Here genius shines through in a drama of strange power, generating the laugh that follows hard upon the catch in the throat and investing the story of June and
Now that weve really settled down and have had a chance to 
look over our registration records, find some interesting students entered in the various colleges. Briefly . . . Clyde W. Tombaugh, the young man who discovered the planet Pluto in 1930, liaS enrolled n the UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS . William Shakespeare has enrolled in NOTRE DAME and will try his hand at football. Bill is a freshman candidate, hailing from Port Richmond, New York . . . THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA has a very, very young freshman. He is only 18 months old, and is enrolled in the University Nursery School . . . Probably the bestknown frosh entering any college this fall is Jackie Coogan, of fllm fame, who has enrolled at SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA UNIVERher Paycock with irony and pity. To all admirers of Sean O'Casey it is melancholy news that he is losing his eyesight.
Thursday Night, December 15Spreading the News is Lady Gregorys sheer Irish fun with illustration of the truism suggested by the title. This play and Riders to the Sea are favorites with little theaters all over America, but the spirit of Irish drama is as inclusively native to the Abbey Theater as the quality of Tchk
hov is to the Moscow Art Theater.Saturday Night, December 17Kathleen Ni Houlihan by W. B. Yeats was presented at the opening performance in the Abbey Theater in 190-1. It is a beautiful work by one of the foremost living poets, who is now on a lecture tour in America and will speak in Pittsburgh on January 12 under the auspices of the Pittsburgh Morning Lecture Series.
Thursday Night, December 15; 
Also Saturday Night, December 17The Playboy of the Western World, the masterpiece of the greatest playwright the Abbey Theater has yet produced, J. M. 
Synge, is in perspective the Don Quixote of modern Ireland. Be-, cause it was first produced when the Irish people were sensitive to their problems of achieving freedom, there was a riot in the theater, an occasion invariably and invidiously recalled by those who do not understand Burkes distinction between judging a people when they are at rest and composed and judging them when they are in the midst of a struggle. There is now no more popular piece in the Irish repertory.The top price for the engagement is $2.00, which should succeed in turning the Nixon into a Donegal Fair.
LOCAL DRAMATIC ACTIVITIESDecember GElmer Kenyon will address the Congress of Clubs.December SElmer Kenyon will speak before the Womans Club of the East End Christian Church.December 5-0  The Valiant and Fore" will be given by the Langley High School ParentTeachers Association.December G-13The Ticket of Leave Man by Tom Taylor will be given under the direction of B. Men Payne. There will be special music, and the settings will be in the flamboyant style of the period.December 9  The Stage and Play Society will present Marys Ankle by May Tully in the Twentieth Century Club.December 9Miss Sydney Thompson will present dramatic interpretations before the students of Pennsylvania College for Women.December 9A benefit performance will be given by the Drama Department of the Congress of 
Womens Clubs.December 11The annual Nativity Play of the Pennsylvania College for Women will be given under the direction of Miss Vanda 
E. Kerst.December 12Louis Anspaclier will address the Twentieth Century Club, his subject being "The 
Mob and the Movies.December 13  A. tea will be given under the auspices of the Drama League, for the Abbey 
Theater Players. _________
Boeiug School 
Of Aeronautics 
To Give Awards
Aeronautical scholarships totaling $7,500 in tuition value are being offered to college students by W. E. Boeing, according to the Boeing School of Aeronautics of Oakland, California. Four college undergraduates who submit the best essays on aeronautical subjects and who are able to meet necessary physical standards will receive flying and ground training at no tuition cost.The first prize is the W. E. Boeing Master Pilot Ground and Flying Course. Ground school courses are open to winners of the other three places with the second award candidate also receiving flight instruction.The candidate must be a regular undergraduate in good standing. He must also pass certain physical requirements. This competition closes April 15, 1933, and essay subjects must be aprpoved before March 15, 1933. The candi
date for the first award must pass the Department of Commerce transport pilot license examination ten days after awards are announced. In previous years, students of many loading colleges have been awarded scholarships. The Boeing School of Aeronautics ranks as one of the leading aviation schools. With its fleet of training aircraft and expensive laboratory, equipment, the school gives complete train-ng for many branches of aviation.
Abbey Irish Players 
To Be Guests At Tea
Officers and directors of the Pittsburgh Drama League take pleasure in announcing that twelve of the Abbey Theater Irish Players will be the guests of the league at a tea to be held in the Hotel Schenley at half past three Tuesday afternoon, December 13. Since this will be the only opportunity of meeting these players during their stay here, members may extend an invitation to their friends. Cover charge 50 cents. The committee in charge consists of Miss Vanda E. Kerst, chairman, Mrs. Albert Pettit. Mrs. T. C. Clifford. 
M.rs. Henry II. Hanna, and Mrs. H. Allen Macliesney.
ALUMNI NEWS
CAPITOL DISTRICT CARNEGIE 
CLAN
The Capitol District Carnegie 
Clan reserved a special section in 
the Gold Room of the Wardman 
Park Hotel last Saturday night for 
Carnegie students and alumni who 
wished to attend dinner and a 
dance after the Carnegie-George
town game.J. C. Evans, H. S. Thorn, Margaret Croisant, and Henry Greenmail comprised the committee.
The Carnegie Alumni now in Washington occupied a special sec-, tion at the game Saturday after
noon.
LOST AND FOUND
The following articles have been left in. various buildings on the campus and their owners may obtain them at these places upon 
identification.
Lost and Found Office, basement Administration Hall: A pair 
of silver rimmed glasses; a string of pearls; a freshmans black notebook; a set of Math Tables belonging to Stanley Grigas; a PlaneTrigonometry of John Schenks; two ladies umbrellas; a number of assorted gloves; cards and drivers 
license belonging to Nancy R. Myler.
Skibo Inn: One black hat with veil; four pairs of gloves, one black lace, one tan kid, one black kid, dnd one white cloth; a locker 
key; and a drawing pen.The Hut: A notebook belonging 
to Charles Ackley, and two pairs 
of ladies gloves.
A Sure 
Foundation
GAH EW NdH fAMHAN WEDAifNMEA* 
EA CdMrd NE nDMUi yEDK finan
rMfU MAiHHAiHArH MR f RfvMAgR 
frrEDAN. TyRNHafNMr Having 
nHgDA CdMUH yED fKr MA rEUUHgr 
CMUU fvH UMH CAy WEK * fDrV 
KrfRWDU WDNDKH. GDK TfvMAgR 
IrrEDANR fy UMnHKfU MANHKHRN 
rEaEDAiHi RHaMVfAADAUUy.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Pa.
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNI 
NEWS
The Margaret Morrison class of 1929 will hold an afternoon bridge on December 17 at the home of Dorothy Roy, 365 South Pacific avenue, Pittsburgh, at 2 p. m. 
Tickets will be fifty cents. Class dues of twenty-five cents will be payable at the meeting. Mrs. 
Henrietta Accipiter Parker is in charge of the tickets.
WOMENS CLAN OF PHILADEL
PHIA
The second meeting of the Car
negie Womens Clan of Philadelphia was held on November 12, 1932, at the home of Charlotte Watson Trautman, 933 Cornell avenue, Drexel Hill, Pa. An interesting feature of this meeting was Evelyn Held Burgis. A. 27, presentation of a model lesson demonstrating 
the technique of teaching piano playing to children. Mrs. Burgis 
is teaching in schools at Paoli and 
Berwyn, Pa.
Open house for clan members and their'children will be held on Friday afternoon, December 30, 
from 2 to 5, at the home of Helen Reed M,utch, 134 West Logan street, Germantown, Pa. The chil
dren are invited to enjoy the unusual collection of electric trains 
which Dr. and Mrs. Mutch have collected for their daughter.
The next meeting of the clan 
will be held on December 10, 1932, at 2 p. m. at the home of Louise Irwin Hirsch, 722 Turner avenue, Drexel Hill. Pa. Alumni from Philadelphia and vicinity are urged 
to attend this meeting.
Clarence Darrow To 
Debate In Music Hall
EANMADHi FKEa BfgE Y ~
days when he defended Loeb and Leopold In Chicago, John T. Scopes at Dayton, Tenn., the McNamara brothers in Los Angeles, and Haywood, Moyer and Pettlbono in Boise, Idaho.Debate reservations aro being made through A. H. Brockott at C. C. Mellors, 00-1 Wood streol. Prices aro 75 cents, $1.00 and $1.50, with not proceeds going to Christmas charity. Mail orders will bo filled when accompanied by stamped, self-addressed envelope.
R. R. Mellon 
Will Lecture 
In Music Hall
Well -K n o w il Authprity 
To Speak December 8 
On Darwinism
TRAVEL RATES GIVEN AT "Y1
The Tartan Travel Buroau has. made arrangements to take care of all forms of tyavel reservations for students and faculty over the 
Christmas holidays.Reservations may bo mado at the Y office tomorrow and Friday of  this week and every day next week.
After G p. m. reservations may be made by calling Montrose 873-1.
LOST
PHI KAPPA PIN
RHNDKA NE
JACK FRISSE
55ev FEKnHR TNKHHN
Select Your Christmas Gifts at the
NEW WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FOKBES STREET
SPECIALS
DuPont 10-Piece Set.....................................................$9.50
Five-year Diary (lock and key).................................$1.29
Konson or Dunhill Lighters.........................................$4.50
% pound Edgeworth Tobacco Pouch........................ 98c
Five pound Chocolates (Delicious)..........................$1.49
WE CARRY REYMERS, JOHNSTONS, WHITMAN'S 
CANDYCHRISTMAS WRAPPED
OTHER HOLIDAY SUGGESTIONS 
Kodaks Perfume Sets Compacts
Sheaffers Pen and Pencil Sets 
Writing Paper Cigars Cigarets
SEE OUR CHRISTMAS WINDOW DISPLAY FOR 
MORE SUGGESTIONS
Leave Your Shipping Troubles AVitli Us.
We Will Mail Your Holiday Box.
EUHfAEKEW RAvrA nUErk EK JfvAArHr nKECA UDHir. I Da for AMU CMANHK AAi WEK AMU iDy RrKvMrr. JDMN EAH EW e0 drrMMUWMrUANW Da RNyUHR.
The Academy of Science and Art, a local intellectual organization founded for the purpose of advancing science and .art In the Pittsburgh district, will present the sixtli of a series of fifteen lectures on Thursday evening, December S, at S:15 in the Carnegie Music Hall. This lecture/ Darwinism in Experimental Bacteriology, will be delivered and illustrated by R. R. Mellon. M. D., a well-known authority on the subject.
At the dawn of the present century the chemical elements and bacterial species were both regarded as immutable. Dreams of the early alchemists regarding science have been realized to a great extent by modern physics; modern microbiology has performed a similar service for the so-called "mutionist." This newer knowledge of the essential nature of bacteria has yielded repercussions, not unlike those characterizing the fundamental controversy in religion. It exemplifies the ancient issue between the static and dynamic points of view. This is of vital importance not only to the'theory of bacteriology, but to its limitless practical applications in medicine and other realms, the highlights of which Mr. Mellon will discuss in his locture.
The next in this series of lectures. The Conflict in Manchuria, will be given 011 December 15 by E. Carleton Baker, formerly United States Consul General at Muk
den.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
The Mens Glee Club will present a concert of Sacred Music Friday evening at the Third .Presbyterian Church, Fifth and South 
Neeley avenues.Students are cordially invited to 
attend this concert.
Did you ever hoar of a "Smiling" Marathon? Thats the way the students at Muskingum familiarly refer to their Faculty Reception.
Mrs. Cornelia E. Trent, 
Carnegie postmistress since 
1922, died November 27, aft
er a long Illness. Funeral 
services wore held Tuesday, 
Novomber 29, nnd Intorment 
was at Melrose, Pa. Mrs. 
Treat filled her position here 
very efficiently nnd effective
ly, wns deeply Interested In 
work of the students.
English Vays
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
Word and phrase formation by analogy has produced as much faulty spelling, incorrect idiom, 
and bad grammar, as any other language process. Its usual inventive way is to create new terms or word combinations by imitating that which is in good usage. A writer or speaker, hunting for a word or 
phrase recognizes a likeness between what ho knows to be correct and that which lie wishes to express, and relying on that analogy, 
adapts what ho has at hand to a new use. For example, one of tlio accepted devices for forming adjectives denoting relating to or "tending to is to add the suffix ive. Thus from "demonstrate we have the adjective demonstrative. From prevent we have "preventivea word which was inadvertently designated in this col
umn as barbarous, but which is far from that. What is barbarous and incorrect is "preventativeseemingly coined by analogy with demonstrative.
In a like manner such an idiom as different than, commonly 
used by the less careful instead of "different from," is formed. For example, The present depression is different from that of 1907. Evidently a dissimilarity is to be ex
pressed, and by analogy one is inclined to use the connective "than 
to indicate the relation of the thoughts.
In grammar, too, analogy has 
give some peculiar turns to words, and phrases. One of the most common appears in the attempts of the illiterate to regularize the formation of the principal parts of verbsknew" becomes knowed. "saw becomes seed1. The tabpersonal possessive its is often, written 'its, probably by analogy with the usual method of forming, tlvo possessive singular of nouns. Oddly enough one never sees "his' with the apostrophe.Though the foregoing illustrations show the us of analogy as; something to be avoided,, such a conclusion is not quite exact. It must be admitted that analogy makes for more flexibility and oaseIn expression, especially among 
the illiterate or mentally Indolent. Occasionally their coinages by analogy make their way Into the language of tlio od'ucuited"preventative and "different than being two that aro well: on fchelar way.
You Cant Bo Popular . . . 
If Youre a Poor Dancer
WE WMUU LHArd YED IA Y YKUvAU LHaMEAAGAUy $5 
ExEKN IAMMNKDnNUEA
JACQUES SCHOOL or DANCING
FGRSET AND RII. TLREELT MfyWUECHK wvy Y 
INMMMUADEKH UAHHGHMEAify AAi FKMify EvHAMAgo v:YY0 ErUErk. 
TErMfU DDA rDAVWMNd GKrdEHNKA LUMDKAMUAy aDU TDNMMKMUAy HvDAMAgSo 8:11(1 ErUErk.
IA NdE YY rDKN EW LWUrUN fAi UUNN
Incidents like this never
harm Nisley quality
because Nisleys two factories 
produce quality that can be 
compared only to high priced 
shoes and styles you 
know are right I
533 Liberty Avenue 
6016 Penn Avenue
First Aid
for unbroken joints
How to keep silt and sand from clogging tele
phone cable ducts was one problem put up to 
engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories. No 
known method of joining sections of vitrified clay 
conduit effected a seepage-tight joint.
With scientific thoroughness, telephone men 
made many tests under service conditions. They 
devised a bandage of cheese-cloth, waterproof 
paper and mortar. Easily made and applied, this 
mortar bandage is tight against silt and sand. It 
prevents clogging, greatly simplifies the installation 
of new telephone cables and the removal of old ones.
Through solving such interesting problems,
Bell System men work steadily nearer to their goal 
 telephone service of highest possible efficiency.
BELL SYSTEM
I tILIGtVWIDE TYTLEM GF ItLERVGttELIt. LELEBHGtET
