Jacobs Elected SDC Pres.
by Claire Lee
At the February 16 SDC meeting new 
officers were elected. Due to what seemed 
like apathv and increasing academic re
sponsibilities, there were very few can
didates. Most of those who ran had little, if 
any, competition. SDC VP Bill Jacobs be
came President. Michele DeVeaux (Morewood area VP), Martha Ford (Secretary), 
and Tom Kendig (Treasurer) were re-elec
ted to their former offices without any 
opposition. Due to a lack of the required
quorum of Hill Representatives, the elec
tion of the Hill area Vice President was not 
held. These were the results of an election 
in which SDC had to practically beg 
people to run for certain offices.
Regina Hopkins, former SDC President, 
stated that her term as president had been 
enjoyable and educational. Her major dis
satisfaction was that many students view 
SDC as solely a service organization. She 
sees its primary duty as a student represen
tative to the administration. Hopkins was 
happy that SDC has been advising the ad
ministration on several of its policies. Her 
prospects for the future included the hope 
that more administrators and students will 
take notice of SDC and attend i its 
meetings.
In that meeting three administration 
members were present: Dean Williams, 
Dean Milligan and Rita Cohen.
Cohen, Director of Food Services, came 
to obtain reaction on the decision to close 
the Morewood Cafeteria for all weekends
continued on page 6
tartan
March 4, 1975 Volume 75 Number 19
Pitt Frat Raids SAE 
Morewood Blocked
Page Named 
Music Head
by Kevin Turcotte
Robert Page has been named Head of 
the Music Department. He will assume his 
duties on September 1, 1975. The music 
department has been seeking a new head 
for one and one-half years.
He is a professional musician as well as 
an outstanding educator, commented 
President Richard Cyert. Page has won a 
Grammy award and the Prix Mondial de 
Montreaux.
Page currently teaches at Temple 
University in Philadelphia. He has also 
taught at Odessa College and Eastern New 
Mexico University. He has been teaching 
music since 1948.
Page was not one of the three choices 
recommended to Cyert by the music fac
ulty. We didnt get a consensus this time, 
said Cyert. Page also was not the choice of 
music students. There seems to be some 
controversy in the music department be
tween vocalists and instrumentalists. Pages 
background is in choral work and the in
strumentalists thought that he might not 
be the right choice, Cyert said.
Competing for Pages talents was the 
University of Indiana, Pages alma mater. 
'We were very happy to win in that com
petition, Cyert said.
Page will not assume full duties until 
next fall but will come as a consultant 
during May. Were well on the way to a 
successful rebuilding of the music depart. . ___  .oSr| rvert_
by Debbie Siegel
Last Saturday morning, about 2:30 am, 
a rumble broke out between CMIFs Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity and the University 
of Pittsburghs Pi Kappa Alpha frat. The 
incident resulted in -the blocking of More
wood Avenue by police and both Univer
sities Security vehicles.
The fights broke out a a party that had 
been open to all CMU Greeks and Pitt SAE 
members. Apparantly, when the Pitt 
PIKAs entered the party, they were allow
ed in because they announced themselves 
as merely PIKAs. One of the PIKAs had an 
arguement with a Pitt SAE and members of 
SAE asked the Pitt PIKAs to leave. The 
four or five PIKAs left and came back in 
the next half hour with a few carloads of 
PIKA members, armed with chains, pipes 
and beer mugs, explained one CMU stu
dent who attended the party. It was very 
scary.
A member of SAE said that one frat 
brother called CMU Security Four or five 
Pittsburgh Police cars also answered a call 
from SAE. Chuck Williams, Dean of Res
idence Life, arrived at 2:45 am and phoned 
Pitt Security. No arrests were made; one 
CMU student was taken to Shadyside Hos
pital for treatment of a black eye. Pitt 
Security drove a Pitt student to Presby
terian for a minor injury. Williams shut the 
party down shortly after he arrived.
Williams commented, There were 20 or
30 persons from Pitt and small groups of 
people were fighting. I havent run a full 
investigation of the incident yet. The story 
I got last night was that it wasnt SAEs 
fault. I will speak with the President of 
SAE and talk with the Dean of Students at 
Pitt.
Several Pitt PIKAs were asked about the 
situation. One member said that he heard 
there was no incentive for the incident. 
Several Pitt PIKAs went into the party 
who were invited. I assume they were in
vited by SAE and then they were kicked 
out by Pitt SAE. I dont know anything 
about a fight. One brother got into a 
scuffle. He came around 1 am and
that was the end of it, said one other 
PIKA.
Another PIKA had a different story. 
About four or five of our brothers went 
up there. Our guys were minding their own 
business. They were harassed on the way 
out of SAE, he said.
A CMU SAE maintained that Pitt SAE 
and PIKA are rival fraternities. He ex
plained that CMU SAE was merely trying 
to cut down on possible hassles between 
the two Pitt frats.
Williams said that some of the students 
objected to his handling of the situation. 
He said that students assumed they were in 
as much control as he.
I thought our Security did an excellent 
job in terms of responding and being 
sympathetic, said Williams. A student dis
agreed. Security did nothing except call 
Dean Williams and Pitt Security to attend 
to an injury of a Pitt student. Michael 
Corletti, head of Security, said that he had 
heard CMU Security had done a good job 
in containing the incident.
One SAE member summed up the in
cident. We only responded naturally tot 
the situation as anybody would if a guy 
comes at you with a steel pipe.
New SDC President Bill Jacobs
photo by Eliot PopowitzTuition Ease Plan Announced
Jjy Tim McCullough
At the first of the administrations 
proposed bi-weekly news conferences on 
February 28, President Richard Cyert and 
Vice President of Business Affairs, Richard 
Van Horn announced and installment pay
ment plan designed to ease the payment of 
total costs at CMU.
The new installment plan allows a 
parent or student to pay for an education 
at CMU in ten installments due the fifth o 
each month from July through April. Th 
new installment plan breaks the traditio 
at CMU of lump-sum payments at the be 
ginning of each semester. Dr. Van Hor 
cites three major advantages to the plan:  
low interest rate of 8.5 percent, an easie 
means of payment and an insured progran 
administered by the University rather tha; 
by 2 commercial firm.
Dr. Van Horn favors the administrate 
of the installment plan by the Universit 
rather than a commercial firm because o' 
the lower interest rate the University ca . 
offer. He told the news conference, a 
credit card system used by some schools 
was considered as an alternative, but it was 
discarded because of its higher 15 percent 
interest rate. The University also provides 
limited insurance on the plan. The insur
ance would pay the balance due on con
tracted installments for a semester in the 
event of the death of the contract signer. 
Standard University refund policies apply 
to students covered by the installment plan 
who withdraw from the University.
Applications for the installment plans 
contract will be sent to all undergraduates 
and freshmen before June 1 of this year. 
Once a contract for the Universitys install
ment plan is signed and returned to the
continued on page 6M.G.CAF.Closes Weekends
by Debbie Siegel
Morewood Gardens cafeteria will close 
on weekends for the rest of the semester. 
Food Service Director Rita Cohen blamed 
the closing on high overhead costs resulting 
from low numbers of students using the 
cafeteria.
Morewood, the only contract dining 
room with an all-you-can-eat policy, at
tracted only 100 to 200 customers per 
meal on weekends, according to Ms. 
Cohen, who expects to save $8000 per year 
from the closing. She said the cafeteria
should serve three times as many students 
on weekends in order to operate economic
ally.
Food Service is a business as well as a 
service, said Ms. Cohen.
Whether Morewood will resume week
end service next semester depends on how 
many students buy meal contracts, accord
ing to Ms. Cohen. She pointed to next 
years rate increase of only 3% and to a 
new 14 meal per week contract as effort; 
to attract more customers.
She said there is now no plan to close 
Morewood entirely.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
editors note
Cracktivities
"The Creator has a master plan, sings Pharoah Sanders, 
rock personality.. Dr. Cyert, what is the master plan for 
Student Activities at Carnegie-Mellon University? From the 
inhabitants perspective of this university, it appears that 
Student Activities doesn't fit in too well with that master 
plan.
In a conversation with Dean Swank, / was dismayed 
upon hearing that he plans to advise student organizations, 
because the concerned groups were never told that he is their 
new advisor. It was never announced that Sue Christian will 
be only responsible for Campus Program Planning and Lois 
Cox will advise student organizations on financial matters. 
Dean Swank, you have re-distributed power within Student 
Activities and Student Affairs. At the same time, youre 
working out a possible management option which will not 
restrict who is responsible for specific areas within Student 
Activities and Student Affairs. Functions often overlap. But 
where does this leave me? Where do / go for help? Nobody 
told me or asked me. Someone should explain the difference 
between Student Activities in Skibo and Warner Hall.
Also, Dean Swank has said that he can spend more time 
with student organizations because Cyert holds fewer 
administrative meetings. In viewing the history of Student 
Activities, you said that it established itself as an organization 
in which students could work with advisors on a one to one 
basis. Now, we hear that meetings of student organizations 
have merit. Your administrative meetings were cut down 
because you have gained more autonomy. The reason that 
Carnegie-Mellon has been cited as one of the best Student 
Activities programs in the country is because of its one to 
one contact. Student organizations should not be denied the 
benefit of one to one advising because you are more auton
omous. If meetings were generally non-productive for the 
administration, how can you think that meetings will benefit 
student organizations who need direct advice? The beauty of 
the old set-up was that / knew / could go to Sue Christian or 
Bob McCurdy about my organization and get help immed
iately.
Bev Robinson, president of Student Government, said 
she did not find out that Dean Williams would be Dean of 
Resident Life until she read it in the TARTAN. Student 
Affairs maintains that Dean Williams now has the power to 
take action on matters within the dorms. Maybe his new 
position will be more effective, but the Division of Student 
Affairs never explained why no replacement will be sought, 
for the Dean of Men. Just as students were never told that 
Susan Christian will get no assistant director. It appears that 
less manpower is doing more work. Dr. Cyert wants to 
improve the social and intellectual life in the dorms. / 
maintain that the social and intellectual life is a campus 
phenomenon and that priority should go to a Student 
Activities which provides this kind of fulfillment for involved 
students.
Nobody objects to re-organizing structures or preparing 
models of management. Students object to not being consult
ed. Bev Robinson and Sue Olshansky represent the student 
vlew-but they havent been asked for their model of Student 
Activities and Student Affairs. Rather, students are presented 
a fait accompli. Decisions have been made already without 
student input. And, theres been an oversight as to the past 
success of Student Activities while there was a director and 
assistant director. One conclusion might be that the old 
structure of Student Activities functioned efficiently.
Obviously the Master Plan purports to be more efficient 
and economical. Could it also represent an attempt to 
consolidate power under the dean? The students in campus 
organizations care. They just want to find out if they are part 
of this master plan, and if they are, what part?
Debbie Siegel
The TARTAN wishes to thank Steve Corrcli for helping to make this issue possible.
... \Jwxc VUve Ail
letters
Editor:
Student Senate has given the 
CMU yearbook, THISTLE 75 an 
ultimatum: Sell or perish. Yet, 
it seems foolish to stop publica
tion when it will cost the Univer
sity more not to print the book 
(at this stage of production) than 
to go ahead and print. By the 
same token, it is foolish to pro
duce a book that has no market 
on this campus.
Students, it is YOU who will 
truly decide our fate. The year
book company can offer us. the 
option to afford one month to 
take orders for o.ur publication. 
If we do not get 200 sales, NO
BODY gets the book and the 
school tosses $2500 plus away 
for NOTHING.
If you want a book, you have 
until March 31 to order. At that 
time, the number of sales will
indicate our number to print. 
What this means is that the num
ber of copies ordered will be the 
number producedthere wont 
be any more chances to buy. Ob
viously then, the 1975 THISTLE 
will become a collectors item, 
increasing in value years from 
now.
I feel CMU students should be 
made aware of our reasons to 
print the yearbook:
*434 of 599 seniors were 
photographed for the book. Most 
campuses estimate only half of 
their Senior class will be photo
graphedwe surpassed that fig
ure. We owe it to the Seniors to 
come through with their book.
*More time and planning 
went into our first 16-page color 
section than into the making of 
the entire 74 THISTLE. Its a 
well-planned, well-designed 
book, indicative of talents at 
CMU.
* Because our theme is 
people, nearly anyone who is 
involved in athletics, activities, a
fraternity or sorority, or even 
anyone who wants to submit 
candids of their friends or them
selves will be pictured. Academic 
Departments each have their own 
page in our book, also. Why NOT 
print a book that has something * 
for most of the campus?
Nevertheless, if boiled down 
to the major element, the stu
dents on this campus MUST 
show us support with the neces
sary orders placed this month. If 
this yearbook doesnt come off, 
you certainly wont see another * 
THISTLE for years to come. 
PLEASE SAVE YOUR YEAR
BOOK!!!!
Kathy Sabec 
Editor-in-Chief 
THISTLE
Editor:
A few weeks ago, Steve 
Correli wrote an article concern
ing the dissatisfactions of stu
dents in the music department 
here at CMU. Although most of
tartan
Editor-in-chief: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna
Photography Editor: John Shettel
Sports Editor: Dave Kanner
Features Editor: Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes, 
Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee,  
John Mangano, Charles Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner.
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larso.i, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz,
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey/Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe
Tl j Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 3
news comment
Hints for Dorm Delights
by jramme Kare
A reporter from this fine little 
bush-league rag tells me that 
cooking in the University dormi
tories is a big issue at CarnegieMellon. Being somewhat of an 
expert in the culinary arts and 
having studied and taught Hotel 
Management at colleges both 
here and abroad, I give to you 
the following comments.
Food preparation in a dormi
tory room is much like food 
preparation in any fine restaur
ant; except that you have no 
kitchen, no space to spare, very 
little electric capacity and, as a 
college student youre rare if you 
can boil water properly. To com
pare a dorm room kitchen 
with the compact galley on my 
ocena-going sailing yacht, well, 
it's like trying to make dinner for 
eight in a rubber dinghy. You 
can, however, overcome these 
little setbacks with the right 
equipment and a little know
ledge (a little knowledge may be 
 dangerous, but it goes a long 
way). - .
First comes a proper refriger
ator. It should be large on the 
inside (about five cubic feet min
imum) and small on the outside. 
Ideally, the top should be at 
counter height for use as a prep
aration surface. After a trip to
li the market, youre ready to 
tackle such dishes as green salads, 
celery stalks with salt and peanut 
butter, ham n cheese sand
wiches, banana splits and cold 
beer. Contrary to popular belief, 
putting bananas in the fridge 
does not make them turn rotten, 
it just makes them look rotten, 
and is therefore not recommend
ed.
Next comes that great little
$3.98 wonder, the hot cup. 
Traditionally, these little devils 
were designed to boil two or 
three cups of water to make that 
horrible instant powdered soup, 
in two minutes flat. Fortunately, 
theyre quite a bit more useful 
than that, because if you can 
manage to boil water, you can 
also make tea, coffee, broth, heat 
up canned soup and vegetables, 
cook roast beef and gravy in-abag, and even make a single 
serving of spaghetti and meat
balls and sauce from scratch.
Beyond hot cups, most cook
ing appliances are considered 
against dorm rules and are not 
recommended, so use them at 
your own peril.
Your basic hot plate comes in 
two general types, open and 
covered.
The old style open-coil type is 
to be avoided at all costs since it 
can shock you, will burst into 
flames should you drop a crumb 
into it, and will set your room on 
fire should you kick it under the 
dresser. Besides that, they give 
dorm cooking a bad name. Cov
ered or enclosed hot plates are 
somewhat safer, provided they 
are well-made and the base is in
sulated for heat. An electric skil
let is safer still and fries ham
burgers and steaks as well (as if 
you could afford a steak).
The mini-broiler or toaster 
oven opens up a whole range of 
baked and broiled foods from 
chicken pot-pies and layer cakes 
(one layer at a time) to broiled 
meats and TV dinners (yeech!).
After the cooking comes the 
eating, which Im sure your can 
handle, provided the cooking 
went okay, and then the cleanup. 
Leftovers go into the fridge or to
the dog. Trash goes into a welllined trash can to be discarded 
frequently. Then the dishes 
must be washed. Automatic dish
washers use quite a bit of elec
tricity, hot water and space. As 
such, they should be considered 
an extravagance, unless the 
whole dorm floor pitches in to 
make it worthwhile. The best 
dishwasher is an ambitious room
mate who wants to use the sink 
that youve filled with dirty 
dishes. In any case, the longer 
you wait to clean them the hard
er they are to clean. Never dump 
food down the drain, thats what 
the john is for.
Last of all, remember that no 
student ever survived on dorm 
cooking alone. Be sure to eat out 
a couple of times per week, even 
if its at Winkys. The cafeteria 
fare will seem great after so 
many dollar-per-day dorm meals. 
Best of all, get an invite to dinner 
with your off-campus friends 
who have real kitchens. College 
student apartment fare may not 
be much better than dorm fare 
so try for friends who are living 
at home with mother and dad for 
a great home cooked meal. Fac
ulty and administrators are an
other possibility (Im told that 
dinner at Dean Swanks is the 
jackpot!).
When sponging, remember to 
bring a gift as appropriate. A 
bottle of reasonable dinner wine 
is traditional, while a pound of 
ground round may be appreciat
ed by your fellow povertystricken student apartment dwel
lers.
Oh yes, dont forget to brush 
your teeth after every meal, and 
by all means and meals, Take 
Kare.
Morewood Cafeteria, closed on weekends.
letters
continued from page 2
the meeting was clearly reported, 
there is one point we would like
to clear.
The article stated that the 
saxophone students in this 
school didnt have a teacher who 
specialized on the instrument. 
We, the saxophone students of 
Mr., Jerome Levine disagree with 
that statement. What was said at 
the meeting and what was print
ed were different.
Mr. Jerome Levine was hired 
by past head of the Music De
partment Sidney Harth, now con
cert master of the L.A. Philhar
monic, as a specialist and teacher 
of the saxophone. He was hired 
to teach legitimate or classical 
style saxophone playing. He does 
this very well, as well as being a 
fine clarinet instructor.
The saxophone students at 
CMlJ are not dissatisfied with
Jerome Levine, but are dissatis
fied with what the department 
offers saxophone players. We 
are taught legitimate playing, but 
are given no outlet for such; i.e. a 
saxophone quartet. While this is 
a professional school, we are 
taught only one style of playing 
on an instrument that demands 
much more.
This is not the fault of Jerome 
Levine, but of the Department 
for not recognizing the problems 
and potential in having a pro
gram for saxophone majors.
Larry Sigler 
Keith Bishop 
James Austin
Editor:
I would like to make a 
correction in response to the let
ter that appeared in the February 
10 issue of the TARTAN con
cerning the Oakland Review. 
There is not now nor has there 
ever been any person by the 
name of Cynthia Baines working
in any capacity with the Oakland 
Review. Therefore, all of her 
statements concerning the editor
ial policy of the magazine should 
be disregarded.
While the staff of the Oakland 
Review is proud of its efforts 
both past and present, we feel 
that editorially it is in poor taste 
to make public pronouncements 
on the degree of its quality. Just 
in terms of simple objectivity 
such statements should be con
sidered invalid, improper and 
unnecessary. Our readers are the 
proper judges in such matters. To 
the extent that the Baines letter 
is in inflated in its evaluation and 
elitist in its stance, we feel that it 
gravely misrepresents the atti
tude of those working on the
Review. _ , Paul Berry
 Editor 
Oakland Review
Editor:
Why is the Forbes Street 
Gallery never open? I tried to see
the Haatainen-Kermes show four 
or five different days (during 
their open hours). It was 
closed every time.
I found out later that, because 
someone lost the only Gallery 
key, the show was only open 
four days out of the scheduled 
two weeks. No professional gal
lery (which the Forbes Street 
Gallery supposedly is) could 
cheat both the exhibiting artists 
and those who want to see thier 
work like this and still survive.
Becky Harrison
Editor:
It is difficult to believe that 
after paying $3000 for a wellbalanced education, I am to be 
refused a well-balanced meal. Is 
it the administrations intelligent 
opinion, that they can expect 
anyone to attend an institution 
which denies that persons right 
to a well-balanced and healthful 
meal? Or is it their considered 
continued on page 8
NOW AT 2 LOCATIONSMONTESSORI
1975-76 Teacher Training 
Program
APPROVED BY THE 
AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Fifth AERCO Summer Academic Program 
tor 8 weeks from June 25 1975 la 
August 15. 1975 lo be followed by a 
nine month Internship Eipenence Stu 
dents will be trained in the Montessoi' 
philosophy and teaching method, child 
development and learning materials for 
preschool programs AERCO/Ithaca 
Program conducted on the campus of 
Cornell University and AERCO/Phila 
Program conducted on the campus of 
Manor College
fo, mformstion orf tmU ' writ*
i|*ili AddrMI
AERCO/lthaca Montessori 
Teacher Training Propam
Mr. Kenneth Bronsil 
1374 Meadowbright Lane 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45230 
(513) 231 0868
AERCO/Philadelphia Montessori 
Teacher Training Propam
1400 East Willow Grove Awe. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19118 
(215) AD 3014142
MA\fR

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
announcements
There will be a three-day coffeehouse on
Thursday, Friday and Saturday March 
6,7,8. Rod MacDonald and Sharon Davison 
will perform in the Wherrett Room at 9:00 
pm. Admission is free.
Robert Schofield, professor at Case West
ern Reserve University will speak on 
"Physics, Metaphysics and Theology on 
Tuesday, March 11 at 4:30 pm at Hunt 
Institute.
Robert Kahn, professor at the University
of Michigan, will speak on "Bureaucratic 
Encounters and Social Indicators on 
Friday, March 7 at 3:30 pm in GSIA 319.
Mr. Tom Kerr, AMS Department Head, and
Officer Dave McNutt of the Pittsburgh 
Police Dept, will speak informally to the 
subject of what you should do if arrested 
and what your rights are when arrested. It 
will take place on Tuesday, March 4, at 
7:30 pm in the Donner Hall Lobby. Spon
sored by: Resident Life.
SPRAY TODAY, GONE TOMMORROW?
Tonight Dr. James Anderson from the 
University of Pittsburgh will speak on 
"Crisis in the AtmosphereOzone," in the 
Wherrett Room at 7:30 pm. The discussion 
will include a slide presentation. Another 
Campus Program Planning event.
A seminar on How to Cope with Anxiety
of Modern Living will be held on March 6 
at 7:30 pm at the Central Medical Pavilion, 
directly across from the Civic Arena.
The Alumni Association is sponsoring a
Senior wine and cheese party on Thursday, 
March 6 at 6:45 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. 
Al Julius, KDKA-TV personality and com
mentator will speak.
Uninhibited FemalesWin an all expense
paid trip for two to Hawaii! Third annual 
Seven Springs T-Shirt contest March 8-9. 
Judges include members of Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Myron Cope as MC. Prizes for 
dancing include trip for two to New York, 
use of automobile, ski outifts, etc. Benefits 
go to U.S. Ski Team. Write for infor
mation: Chairman, 504 Number 5 Grand
view Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15211.
A Macedonian dance workshop sponsored
by the Carnegie-Mellon International Folk 
Dance Cli b will be taught by Macedonian 
dance expert Mile Kolarov March 7-8.
Beginning dances will be taught Friday 
from 7:30-10:30 pm in the CMU Thistle 
Hall. Intermediate and advanced dances 
will be taught Saturday from 2-5 pm in the 
Bulgaro-Macedonian Hall at 449 West 8th 
Ave., West Homestead. A party and review 
will follow Saturday night from 8-12 pm.
Cost of the whole workshop is $4.00. 
Single sessions cost $1.50. For further 
information call 621-6713.
Spring Carnival Committee needs help. We
need painters, electricians, carpenters and 
general do-everything-and-anything people. 
Carnival promises to be the best ever but 
we need your help. If you are interested 
drop a note off at the Info Desk or call 
Rich Weiss at 441-5211.
The Pleasures of Merely Circulating Read
ing Series will be presenting student and 
faculty writers reading from their own 
work every Tuesday, 4:30-5.30 pm in 
room 4 Skibo. Featured writers March 4: 
Jewell Parker Rhodes and David Cates. 
March 11: Julio Vera and Anthony Adler. 
Sponsored by the Creative Writing Program 
and the Oakland Review.
The Pittsburgh Pyramid Zen Society is
sponsoring several lectures in the Pitts
burgh area. On March 15, the Society will 
sponsor a talk given by Mr. August Turak, 
Zen leader from Cleveland, in the D Law
rence Hall at the U. of Pittsburgh campus 
in Oakland, room 209. On March 21, he 
will again present a talk at the Mt. Lebanon 
Unitarian Church on Rt. 19. All lectures 
are free and open to the public. Each 
begins at 8:00 pm. s_
There will be a Torah Discussion Group on
Tuesdays at 7 pm in Skibo Room 11. It 
will be sponsored by the CMU Hillel Stu
dent Council.
Try-outs for the Golf Team will be held on
March 18-21. Meet at 12:30 pm in front of 
the Gym.
SECOND SUMMER PROGRAM IN 
MEXICO. Open to all students. Commun
icating in Spanish, 12-24 units; Continuing 
Spanish 12-24 units. Both self-paced. 
Translation Workshop, 9-24 units, and 
individual topics and projects for both 
majors and non-majors: Literature, arts, 
culture, psychology. Five weeks: from May
7 to June 10. Costs: regular summer 
session tuition, $24 a unit, room and 
board, $4-6 a day; air transportation to 
Texas; land transportation to Saltillo, Mex
ico City, Puebla, Caxaca, Guadalajara, Mazatlan. (Land travel in Mexico is very inex
pensive.) For applications see Jose L. 
Varela-Ibarra, Director, Summer Program 
in Mexico, Baker Hall 228C, extension 
268.
H&SS Juniors interested in working as
academic advisors in their Senior year 
should contact SAP (PH 17C). We need 
someone from each department familiar 
with all the various curriculae and pro
grams available.
Campus Program Planning and the Activ
ities Board present another spectacular 
Luncheon Forum. Professor Thomas Kerr 
will show and discuss the film William O. 
Douglas on Thursday, March 6 at 12:30 
pm in the Wherrett Room. You are invited 
to bring your lunch.
Let Colonel Lee Gardner take you through
the passageways of the White House 
Communications System from 1970-1973 
on Wednesday, March 5 at 7:30 pm in the 
SDC Room of Morewood Gardens. SponwRrl hv CPP.
Only woman in your class? The Women's
Collective is sponsoring as discussion on 
this topic Wednesday, March 5 at 6:00 pm 
in Room 11 of Skibo. Alice Parker, Profes
sor of Engineering at Carnegie-Mellon will 
lead the discussion. Everyone is welcome; 
refreshments will be served.
Dr. Allen F. Strehler, Dean of Graduate
Studies, will lead an informal question and 
answer session on the trials and tribulations 
of applying to these institutions of higher 
learning in the SDC Room of Morewood 
Gardens at 6:30 pm on Thursday, March 6, 
1975.
Resident Assistant applications are now
available at the Morewood Gardens Desk. 
The deadline is March 10, 1975.
Dr. McNeill from the Institute fcr Ad
vanced Study, Princeton University, will 
speak Thursday, March 6, 3:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 340A on "Conceptual Basis of 
Language Use." Coffee and donuts at 3 
PM.
Keep switching majors? Have trouble fig
uring out which courses to take? We can 
help! Upperclass H&SS students are avail
able in SAP (Student Advisor Program) 
Porter Hall 17C Mon.-Fri 12:30-4:30, 
621-2600, ext. 8710.
The German Conversation Lunch Hour,
11:45-12:45, occurs every Tuesday in the 
Kiltie Cafe. Meet the entire faculty of Ger
man teachers. German students, German 
speakers and anyone interested in o little 
foreign culture, are invited. Fluency is not, 
and never will be, a requisite.
FRESHMEN and new students: Now is the
time to start exploring your academic alter
natives. Stop by SAP (Student Advisor Pro
gram) in Porter Hall 17C, 12:30-4:30, 
Mon.-Fri. 621-2600, ext. 8710.
Applications and details of the Summer 
Jobs in Britain program are available from 
Cl EE, Hotel McAlpin, Suite 2200, Broad
way and 34th Street, New York, N.Y., 
10001. CIEE will also help students find 
jobs in Germany and France this summer.
Professior Quick of the Electrical Engineer
ing Department of Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity will speak on "The Unknowns of 
Stereo Systems" at 8:00 pm on Wednes
day, March 5, 1975 on the 6th Floor, 
E-Tower Lounge, Morewood Gardens.
The Professional Minor Program is now in
H&SS to accentuate your degree in a 
specialized career area. Programs are offer
ed in management, early childhood, ele
mentary and secondary education, law, ver
bal and visual communication, data under
standing, French, German or Spanish 
technical translation and in the Arts. For 
more information contact SAP, Student 
Advisor Program in PH 17C Mon-Fri, 
12:30-4:30, 621-2600 ext. 8710.
Lacrosse practice begins Monday, March 3.
Practice is on IM field at 4:30 pm Monday 
through Friday till further notice.
Freshmen and Sophomores
Interested in Earning While Learning? If so, 
you are invited to a discussion of the Met
allurgy Department's New Industrial In
ternship Option Program, combining in
dustrial work experience with our trad1 
itional undergraduate program on Wednes
day, March 5, 4:30-5:30 pm, Room 4327 
Science Hall.
GEDU An evening of live musical enter
tainment, pleasant conversation and light 
refreshment will be held at the Delta 
Upsilon House (Across from Skibo) from 
9-12 pm on Saturday, March 8. The cam
pus is invited.
The Philosophy Department of Duquesne
University is pleased to announce that Pro
fessor Karl Otto Apel (University of Frank
fort am Main) and Visiting Professor at 
Purdue University, will speak on the topic 
"The Problem of Ultimate Foundation. 
The lecture will be held on Wednesday, 
March 11, 1975 at 8:00 pm in the Du
quesne University College Hall Room 105.
The Admissions Office will be inviting
newly admitted students to come to cam
pus for a overnight visit during two Sleep
ing Bag Campaigns on April 6-7 and April
13-14. If you would like to host one of 
these students, or learn more about the 
program, please stop by the Admissions 
Office, Warner Hall 101.
Bike Club Meeting March 12 at 4:30 in
Skibo room 56. The Bike Club is for those 
who want to ride in groups on local tours 
and those who want to know more about 
their individual bikes (including how to 
repair them). Tools for bike repair are 
available
Cabguil: Heart of the Sky A benefit poetry 
reading for the United Farm Workers 
AFL-CIO, featuring Paul Zimmer, Ed 
Ochester and John Balaban, and intro
ducing Tony Adler, Joseph Drexler, Felice 
Newman, Dara Wier, Michael Wurster and 
Lisa Zeidner, will be held Friday, March 7
8 pm at the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium (in 
Oakland across from the Carnegie Library). 
Donation: $1.50 at the door.
CIT is sponsoring a new program. Under
graduate students in CIT who would like to 
meet and talk with a CIT faculty member 
outside the classroom or office, can invite 
the faculty member to lunch at Skibo. CIT 
will pay for the faculty member's lunch 
and the student's lunch as well if he or she 
is not on food contract. This program is 
aimed at personalizing and enhancing the 
contact between undergraduates and CIT 
faculty. Luncheon Chats may be obtained 
from the CIT Dean's office, 110 Scaife 
Hall, beginning March 1. -
Personals
Dear Myemmy Beach,
Here's to never being stranded again.
Love Chewy.
Fish
Character is made by what you stand 
for; Reputation by what you fall for.
Snowflake
Classified
summer neurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRE0 
US GOVT APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANS AVIA
flit 7Q7 707
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
1/2
ECONOMY PARE
 unitravei charters
CALL TOLL FREE 1 800 325 4867
Short... Sweet and exciting. Summer
program in Mexico. Baker Hall 228C.
Wanna be a troll? We need a roommate to
live with us in our house under the Panther 
Hollow Bridge. Ideal location. 20 min. 
walk from Pitt and CMU. Surreal view. 
Washer and dryer. Your own roon\ 
$86.67/month. Call Jon or Greg at 
631-6218. Available March 1.
WANTED: Arts and crafts of all kinds for
selling on consignment. Call 362-6562 
evenings.
Free pregnancy testing Monday through
Friday. Results confidential and available 
the same day. For information contact 
Women's Health Services, Inc. 562-1900.
WANT TO PAY YOUR WAY THROUGH
SCHOOL? Sell 1 policy per week and 
you'li earn approximately $4000 per year. 
Reply to TARTAN, giving name, phone 
number and address.
Free pregnancy testing Mon-Sat 9-4. For
information call 362-2920.
For Sale Used Bell & Howell Super I
movie camera. $60. Call Maggie, Campu 
ext. 686 MWF only.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 5
Power Re-Allocated 
in Student Activities
by Debbie Siegel
Director of Student Activities Susan 
Christian was recently told by Dean Earle 
Swank that she will no longer advise stud
ent organizations. This move is part of a 
total division re-evaluation currently under
taken by the Dean.
Two weeks ago Ms. Christian was told 
by Dean Swank that she should only deal 
with her functions as Director of Campus 
Program Planning while he would advise 
student organizations and Lois Cox, Dir
ector of Student Affairs, would advise stu
dent organizations on financial matters. 
Swank feels this change will redistribute 
the work load within Student Affairs.
Due to this shift in responsibility, an 
assistant director of student activities will 
not be hired. There has been a change in 
administrative style under President Cyert. 
Where I used to have to attend many 
more meetings under President Stever, 
there is not the number of meetings there 
used lo be. I have more time to spend with 
students, said Swank.
When Swank worked out his budget in 
November, the priorities were having a 
gynecological service, three physicians in 
Health Service, a women in the Counseling 
Center, an assistant for Christian, restoring 
athletic awards and restoring the three var
sity athletic programs. President Cyert felt 
that varsity athletics should not be cut 
until the athletic committee submitted 
their evaluation; no money was left for an 
assistant to Christian. Swank has main
tained the gynecological service which Stu
dent Activities initiated, the three 
physicians and the woman counselor. [ In 
response to whether the department of 
Student Activities is overworked, Swank
HNMfll
Dean Earle Swank
said, Enough of the functions of Student 
Activities have been lifted. According to 
President Cyerts definition of time expec
ted from his staff (60 hours per week, 
according to a recent WRCT interview), I 
dont consider them overworked. From 
1962 to 1967 there was only one person in 
charge of Student Activities. Swank feels 
that students feel a lack in Student Ac
tivities since Christian did not get an assist
ant because she does not have as much 
time to spend with students.
We are now making an attempt to 
draw radically different organizations. 
Were preparing three or four models of 
management which encompass activities, 
counseling and the building, said Swank. 
Swank emphasized the newest model may 
not demand the staff within Student 
Affairs and Student Activities to be 
accountable for specific areas. He feels that 
continued on page 6
B'NAI B'RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Saturday March 8 9 p.m.
Hillel Lounge & Dining Room, 3rd floor
GRADUATE COFFEE HOUSE
REFRESHMENTS GUITAR
Donation: 75*
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 621-8875
For Free Brochure - Write
1 THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
First Annual Drive 
To Benefit MS
The First Annual Spring Carnival Drive 
will run from March 10 to April 10. This 
year, the drive will benefit victims of Mul
tiple Schlerosis, a chronic progressive dis
ease of the nervous system. The anticipated 
goal is $5000.
All campus groups are encouraged to 
collect money by using their ingenuity (i.e. 
carwash, soliciting, Carnival booth re
ceipts). The groups will be divided in two;divisions of 35 or less, and divisions of 36 
or more. The group which collects the 
most money in each division wins. Prizes 
will include free admission to the 2001 
discotheque, trophy, publicity and a group 
picture with selected Pittsburgh Steelers. 
The highlight of the contest will be the 
April 19 Awards Ceremony, with emcees 
Pittsburgh Steelers.
The General Campus Committee of 
Student Senate and A Phi O are the contest 
sponsors.
All interested groups which desire infor
mation or wish to register for the drive, 
should go to the Skibo Information Desk. 
Canisters, bumper stickers, arm bands and 
balloons will be provided upon request.
news briefs
James H. Booton, Jr., General Manager 
of Campus Services received a leave of ab
sence beginning March 1, for a period of 
six months.
Booton joined the University in Decem
ber, 1970. Since June, 1974 he has been 
General Manager of Campus Services.
During this period, Chuck Williams, 
Dean of Residence Life, and Rita Cohen, 
Director of Food Service, will report to 
Richard Van Horn, Vice President of Bus
iness Affairs. Office Services and the Book
store will report to William Dillon, Business 
Manager.
Booton requested the leave for personal 
reasons.
President Richard Cyert left Pittsburgh 
March 1 on a business trip to Japan. The 
purpose of the visit is to look into Business 
Education in Japan. The trip is being spon
sored by the Ford Foundation.
Cyert will first stop in Australia to in
spect a project he started. He will return 
March 17.
ENGINEER
YOUR 
WAJfTO 
THETOP
If youre an outstanding engineering graduate 
like Will Frick, or someone who can master advanced 
Lechnology, you may qualify 
for one of our top programs.
Nuclear engineering.
Were looking for men 
who have a solid foundation 
in math and physics. Men 
with superior ability. Men 
who want co work the energy 
of the future.
If thats you, look into 
our Nuclear Propulsion 
Officer Candidate ProgramNUPOC.
Youll spend a year learning the many details of 
nuclear propulsion plant theory and operation.
These details will enhance your ability to solve diffi
cult problems through application of fundamental 
engineering principles.
Set your sights high. Go Navy.
Be someone special. Join the Nuclear Navy.
Taik to Lt. Tom Flaherty in the placement office Wednesday and Thurs
day, March 5th and 6th or call him at 644-5889/97
Will Frick, Ursinus 69 
USS Truxton 72

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975Room and Board 
Prices Rise
Susan Christian will no longer be advising student organizations.
photo by Paul Mervis
Student Activities Crumbling?
continued from page 1
the priorities of Student Activities have 
often overlapped with the priorities of Stu
dent Affairs.
Swank feels that he is gaining student 
input through Beverly Robinson, president 
of Student Government and Susan Olshan
sky, chairperson of Student Senate. As of 
Friday, Robinson said she had not been 
approached about the plans for a new 
structure of Student Activities. Robinson 
said, I think Student Activities is crum
bling. Olshansky said Swank is always 
available to talk to and although she has 
discussed Student Senate frequently with
Swank, she knows nothing of the new 
arrangement for Student Activities.
Camegie-Mellons department of Stu
dent Activities has been one of the best 
programs in the country. Christian said, 
this was due to the amount of staff sup
port given to the student Body. Our work 
has been non-directive. Christian said that 
one recent complaint is that information 
has been coming from the top down. She 
stressed the need for student input in de
ciding the priorities of Student Activities.
"What is truth?" asked jesting Pilate, 
And did not wait for a reply.
 Roger B. Bacon
continued from page 1
during the remainder of the semester. Be
cause of the loss of 125-250 contracts 
above the expected number, Food Service 
is losing an additional $30-40,000. Cohen 
expects the move to save $7-8,000. She 
said that without any problem Skibo can 
handle the service. To students inquiries, 
she said that there will be no seconds at 
Skibo and that some students criticisms 
concerning the rudeness of cashiers there 
were probably overexaggerated. The major
ity of SDC members believed that the de
cision will have a very poor and negative 
reception from the student body, especial
ly from those students living in Morewood.
Dean Williams (Housing) came to dis
cuss his program and the problems 
concerning the housing of freshmen during 
the coming school year. He stressed that 
the University only guarantees space to 
freshmen, not to upperclassmen. The stuStudent as Customer: 
Loan SharkingT uition
continued from page 1
Unviersity, a coupon book will be mailed 
to each participant. The coupons serve as 
reminders for payment due.
The administrations new installment 
plan attempts to make the $2,900 per year 
tuition and $1,575 per year room and 
board charges of CMU easier to pay. For 
this reason, Dr. Van Horn has reason to be 
pleased with his work.
dents who are already here rely on room 
draw and squatters rights (a practice 
which he hopes to eliminate in the near 
future) for their year-to-year housing. His 
main problem this year is that the projec
tions show a probable increase of nearly 
100 women over last year. He will have to 
find spaces for them and some people 
(mostly men) will have to move. The ques
tion is who. He concluded by saying that 
his plan of action will hopefully be much 
more clear in May, when the enrollment 
count will be more definitive.
Both Housing and Food Service an
nounced cost increases for the coming 
school year. Room rates will go up $75 per 
person and food contracts $25 per person.
Y06A CLASSES
UnihfimChuKl ShiiviKkC-HAfot-fh t /Yoreu/oad._-Athe Wt-o FbFere
 STW2 3/24tAodx elewsk I
3fel -2ZSS
'"'N
Women: 
Close up 75
SUNDAY, MARCH 9
7:30 pm Wherrett Room
Film: "A Doll's House" starring Jane
Fonda
Leon Katz, Professor of Drama at CMU 
will discuss the social implications present
ed at the film's conclusion, at approximate
ly 9:00 pm.
MONDAY, MARCH 10
9:00-11:00 am Wherrett Room
"Personal Adjustment and the Role of
Women"
Dr. Marion Goldstein, Psychiatrist. A dis
cussion of the process of women defining 
themselves and its implications. Can the 
male-oriented view of women be changed? 
What conflicts does this create?
11:30-1:00 pm Wherrett Room 
Film: "Assertive Training for Women"
Pam Freeman, Counseling Center CMU. 
Being assertive does not mean having to be 
aggressive in expressing one's feelings, in 
being listened to, and in not violating
another person's rights. The film shows ten 
types of interactions representing this style 
of communicationrefusing dates, dealing 
with friends, a physician, a pushy waitress, 
a job interview, parents, etc. Discussion 
follows.
2:00-3:00 pm Room 45
"Non-Verbal Communication and its
Implications"
Marge Walker, Drama Department CMU. 
Demonstration and discussion of the char
acteristics of non-verbal communication 
and its relationship to personal expression 
in real situations. Role-playing will be used 
to examine the effects and interpretations 
one places on "body language" in pro
fessional, personal and social situations.
3:00-4:00 pm Wherrett Room 
"Evolutionary Approach to the Anthro
pological Development of Women"
Gloria Foster and Beth Prince, Department 
of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh. 
An examination of the power roles of 
women and men developed by the econ
omic and political systems established in 
primate and human societies.
7:00-8:00 pm Student Dorm Council 
Room, Morewood Gardens 
"Marriage and the Alternatives"
Panel of women will discuss the varying 
ways they have established their personal 
relationships: from developing marriage 
contracts to deciding not to marry.
8:30-11:30 pm Wherrett Room 
Films: "Tell Me Where It Hurts" starring 
Maureen Stapleton and "I Love You, 
Goodbye"
TUESDAY, MARCH 11
11:00-12:15 pm Wherrett Room 
"Television's Adverse Effects on Women 
and Children"
Virginia Bartlett, Free-Lance Film and 
Television Writer and Producer. Disussion 
of the images or roles in which women and
children are stereotyped; the effect on the 
viewing public and how to change it.
12:30-1:15 pm Wherrett Room * 
"Sexism and Language"
Jeanne Kammer, Department of English, 
Wheeling College. An exploration of how 
language reflects and shapes the attitudes 
of society toward women.
1:30-2:30 pm Wherrett Room
Panel on Fear of Flying written by Erica
Jong
Lois Fowler, Department of English, CMU; 
Shirley Angrist, SUPA, CMU; June Mullins, 
School of Education, University of Pitts
burgh. Discussion of the book: its force, its 
impact, its value.
4:00-5:15 pm Wherrett Room
"How Women are Viewed in the Marketing
Process"
Gloria Abdou, Director , of Consumer 
Affiars, FOODLAND MARKETS/FOX 
GROCERY COMPANY; Barbara Clark, 
Senior Vice-President, KAUFM ANN'S 
Department Store; Joanne Kaufman, Copy
writer, LANDO, INC.; Christy McClure, 
Account Executive, KETCHEM, MAC
LEOD, AND GROVE, INC. Change in 
women's perceptions of themselves have 
brought about changes in how they are 
viewed by those in marketing: advertising 
agencies; publicity and public relations dir
ectors; and, the newest addition to the 
world of marketing, consumer specialists.
7:00-9:00 pm Wherrett Room 
"An Evening of Poetry and Music"
Nancy Esther James, Westminster College; 
Lisa Zeidner, Sharon Neustein, Jean Saby 
(CMU poets); Woodwind Trio; Bassonist 
Trio.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 7Moldy Slices: "Another Pleasant Valley Sunday"
by Rick Costa
I
Surely the most profitable investment 
you can make during your college years is 
the purchase of coffee, dispensed steaming 
hot in cups from a vending machine, im
mediately before going to class. Upon arriv 
ing at the designated room and removing 
the snug-fitting white cap, you can proceed 
to drink the coffee, a sure indication that 
you, like any normal college-aged intellec
tual, turn in at four am, having spent the 
night meditating on the Universe and Viet
nam or drinking Boones Farm. Taking 
barely audible meditative sips, lips curled, 
while drinking indicates that not only do 
you understand what the professor is say
ing, but you know what he is going to say 
before he speaks.
After having quaffed the miserable
fluid, the best is yet to come. You now 
have an empty container which, placed 
symmetrically inside the 0 on the Mc
Govern sticker on your notebook, will 
serve as an ashtray for the cigarette which 
you will now methodically light. With a 
few deft motions of the Jiands and a few 
initial contemplative puffs, your cigarette 
is lit and ready to be enjoyed. Once you 
have become adept, you can delicately tap 
your cigarette on the edge of the cistern, 
while simultaneously flicking the thin 
whiteness with your index finger, causing 
any excess ashes to be deposited therein. 
Of course, this hinders note taking, which 
facilitates use of this method in literature 
courses, where note taking is unnecessary, 
literature being an ineffable product of the 
soul.
Having finished your smoke, you can 
save your butt to be used in tandem with 
other stray butts in the future or you can
extinguish it in your used coffee cup, con
veniently waiting there, making a slight 
hissing sound if there is any remaining 
coffee. Replacing the lid, you now have a 
tight conpact cylinder, which can either be 
firmly deposited in the nearest trash recepticle or left on your desk as a momento to 
future generations.
II
In the eastern recesses of Hunts reserve 
book room stalks a rare breed of human, 
the GSIA graduate student. Immediately 
discernable, there he sits with his imitation 
vinyl briefcase probably hidden by a 
strewn mass of computer printouts looking 
like spaghetti without the sauce. He studies 
the statistics on paint production in Peru* 
with Jehovah-like significance, mostly wait
ing for someone to make a noise that can 
pass as a disturbance directed at him. Al
though discussions of love affairs and ski
ing trips in Vermont infuriate him, his 
most heated glares result from use of the 
copier. Standing there trembling amid the 
metallic clanging of the machine, the only 
way you can soothe his antiseptic antag
onism is by gingerly raising and showing 
that you are copying from the Wall Street 
Journal.
He arrives before the library opens, 
seeping in through the cracks in the win
dows. He invariably misses a belt loop, 
probably intentionally, and has mis
matched socks. However, as soon as he 
lands his job with Mephistopheles Mining 
and Manufacturing, he will exchange his 
imitation vinyl briefcase for one made of 
genuine calfskin from Scotland. His clothes 
will perfectly match, the stripe in the elas
tic band of his underwear corresponding to 
those in his silk tie, since he has little else 
to worry about. Yet he will probably look 
back on those hours in Hunt as the hap
piest of his life.
Ill
Dog is truly mans best friend. The 
possession of a healthy one insures that the 
owner will be perceived as vigorous and in 
tune with the subterranean mysteries of 
nature. Its best to give him a harsh name, 
Germanic, gutteral, loaded with consonants 
like Brett or Goebbels. Then his name will 
echo and re-echo over the Cut, while he 
bounds up to your side, tongue hanging 
and tail flailing. Engaged in heated discus
sion, you can remove one hand from the 
straps of your backpack and stick it down 
and out without looking and soon feel his 
moist nose nuzzling against your hand. Per
haps he can tip the argument in your favor.
He can also fetch frisbees or other 
peoples books which you could not afford 
to buy. So as you trek over the rough 
terrain between Baker and Skibo, people 
will constantly come up to your side and 
pet his mud-encrusted coat and ask mean
ingless questions of both of you. Since you 
can answer, they will soon ignore your 
presence totally, which means it is time to 
move on. Then sitting in Skibo, with his 
stiff-pawed granite form framed between 
the long rectangular windows against a 
background of snow with perhaps a few 
twisted, bare-leafed branches protruding in
to the edges of this tableau, you can be 
transported to the snowy crags of Mount 
Hemmingway in Colorado, until a Security 
cart ambles spastically into view, which 
appears about to fall over on its side, 
wheels still spinning, in pathetic, Marxian 
fashion.
RUGS 
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s: $ 15-$ 19-$29-$39
Also 6x9$, 12x12s, 12x15s. etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental,
Indian and furry styles.
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Awe., Bloomfild
(54-C bus lets oH at the store)
Open Dally 12 ta 6 pm 
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm
FOP INFORMATION  DIRECTIONS  621-1025
Roam around
Europe all summer
1br$18Q
not for sale in Europe.If you have less time to travel, or want to travel First Class, consider Eurailpass. A two-week pass costs $130. Three-week pass costs $160.One month, $200. Two months, $270. Three months, $330.Dont wait. It could be the trip of your life. See your Travel Agent or clip the coupon and well send you all the facts.
Prices subject to change.
A Student-Railpass gives you two months of unlimited Second Class rail travel through 13 European countries.Buy one, well give you a map, and where you go next is your own business.All well say is that European trains are a sensational way to get there, be it Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany,Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden or Switzerland.100,000 miles of track link cities, towns and historic, scenic and social attractions. Our trains are fast, modern, convenient, clean and comfortable.And youll discover theres very little second class about Second Class. You can sleep in a couchette for only $6.00 a night. And if you want to eat on a budget, inexpensive snacks are often available.You can even take a cruise on the Rhine, if you like. Eurailpass is valid on many European ferries, river and lake steamers and hydrofoils. It also offers you substantially reduced fares on many side excursions you might want to take by motor coach.And hows this for travel convenience? Many rail stations offer bikes for rental, and its possible to pick up a bike at one station and drop it off at another.All you need to qualify is to be a full-time student under 26. Theres just one catch: You must buy your Student-Railpass here before you take off. They're
STUDENT-RAILPASS I The price of one trip could pay for all of Europe

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TAR TAN-March 4, 1975
letters
continued from page 3
opinion that Skibo offers such a 
meal? If it is the latter, then 
there are, at least, 500 students 
here who are too dumb to recog
nize Skibos quality. How can 
anyone with any sense expect 
peoples minds to function well 
on a diet of starches and over
cooked vegetables? At the risk of 
sounding nostalgic, when I came 
here nearly four years ago, there 
were no problems of this type 
since the food was of good qual
ity and sufficient quantity. If it 
is impossible to regain that stan
dard, then someone should have 
the good sense and decency to 
provide adequate and clean facil
ities so that we are not forced to 
Winkys. If Housing is going to 
take the stand Eat Skibo or go 
hungry, then they will be driv
ing hundreds of students off 
campus or out of the University. 
The big question in my mind is 
what happened to that great 
CMU I came to in 71? Where 
have all those intelligent and 
efficient administrators gone and 
where is this university going? 
Ive said it once and must say it 
againI thank God Im getting 
out of here!
Keith Spitler
Editor:
 ... Simon then went on to 
discuss the two main trends of 
development in the field of arti
ficial intelligence. One group is 
hoping to develop computers 
that mimic human thought and 
actions while the other is striving 
to make machines as smart and 
as inhuman as they can be . *. 
Is this what modern man 
wants? Does the modern scientist 
want to put man on an inferior 
level as compared to the com
puter?
Dr. Simon, we live in an age in 
which one irrational tantrum can 
lead to the total destruction of 
mankind and other creatures, 
and certainly by condoning 
movements such as this, destruc
tion will be facilitated.
Everything which mankind 
used to take pride in, such as art, 
sports, etc., have degraded rapid
ly thanks to the scientific age we 
live in. No longer can we sit back 
and enjoy a classical symphony 
by one of the masters without 
thinking about the modern music 
of today and how inferior it is.
Computer music, electric guitars 
and amplifiers, etc., rule the 
scales. There is no continuity in 
the flow, no complexity.
Literature, such as moderu 
American poetry, has degraded. 
Sentences are no longer sen
tences, but mere flashes, flashes 
which only make sense to the 
author, and yet, the author at 
times does not know what he 
writes.
Sports, such as baseball, have 
become more scientific and 
specialized. Designated hitters, 
designated runners replace the 
old, yet reliable and rather
beautiful buffoons. Even the 
field is no longer natural, but 
synthetically made.
In other words, the world is 
becoming more technical, and as 
a result, Mans genius is being 
used against himself. Irony at its 
peak!
I now make a plea addressed 
to the psychology department of 
Carnegie-Mellon University. No 
longer emphasize the quantita
tive side of psychology. Rather, 
emphasize the social side of 
psychology, and thus save the in
dividuality which is lacking in 
todays world.
Cease your selfish desires to 
attempt to make CMU have the 
best quantitative psychology de
partment in the country. Or, suf
fer the consequences by adding 
to the obsolescence of man, and 
ultimately, the destruction of 
him and other species.
Thomas Jesse Schwartz
Editor:
Our many thanks to the 
pledges and brothers of Alpha 
Tau Omega for your help in fixing-up the Child Care Center. 
The kids loved the new purple 
castle, music room climbing 
structure and new tote box 
shelves. The teachers appreciated 
the painted office, new refriger
ator, sanded blocks, shelves and 
bulletin boards. Your community-mindedness is really appreci
ated, and your brotherly spirit is 
greatly admired. It really is nice 
to see the brothers of Alpha Tau 
Omega so constructively conBusiness and 
Newspapers
Barney Calame 
Wall Street Journal
Thursday, March 6 
8:30 P.M.
Skibo Hall Room 46 
Reception following Program
part 4 of the
CMU TARTAN SYMPOSIUM ON 
MODERN AMERICAN JOURNALISM
cerned in the campus commun
ity.
Thanks guys!
Mary Irwin 
Child Care Centei
SUPPORT THE FIRST ANNUAL 
SPRING CARNIVAL 
DRIVE TO BENEFIT MS
Tutoring for beginning 
ENGINEERING & SCIENCE 
classes 
is now available from 
Peer Help 
BH 150A or 621-9900
Where the music is...
WRCT88.3 FM
Seniors and Graduate 
Students. Are you 
ready for now?
Now is the time to explore the 
potential for professional achievement 
at the Naval Ordnance Station,
Indian Head, Maryland (only 25 
miles from Washington, D.C.)
The Naval Ordnance Station is a recognized 
leader in rocketry, missile and gun propulsion. 
We are involved in all aspects of this technology, 
from research, design, and development to pro
duction and evaluation. Besides interesting and exciting career fields, the Naval Ordnance Sta
tion offers fast advancementboth in responsi
bility and pay. (Special government salary rates 
available for Engineers.)
Positions are available in 
Engineering  The Sciences
Send resumes to:
Civilian Personnel Department 
Code 06lD 
Naval Ordnance Station 
Indian Head, Md. 20640
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Persons interested in
BRAINWAVE
BIOFEEDBACK
To Serve as Subjects
Anyone may apply.
We especially need:
 Engineering Students
 Painting and sculpture
majors
 Persons with TM training
IF INTERESTED, PLEASE CALL:
DR. RONALD COLE
Ext. #500
B'IMAI B'RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
A LECTURE
SPONSORED JOINTLY BY THE COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS AND 
THE COLLEGE OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES, 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
AND B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
"Theater as Festival:
A Look at Yiddish Theater in America" 
by Irving Howe
Distinguished Professor of English at the City University of New York 
Monday, March 10,1975 8 P.M.
Auditorium, The College of Fine Arts Carnegie-Mellon
University 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621 8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAIM-March 4, 1975-Page 9
POTTERS' HANDS
"Centering the clay on the wheel head presents the greatest 
difficulty for the potter. In the process, the clay becomes as 
one with the potter and centering it draws from an inner, 
almost spiritual, effort."
"When the pot is returned from the kiln it is rigid and colda ghost of its former 
meaning to the potter."
photo essay by Courtney Larson

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
>R)1rATlLV/\I \
SPRINGSTEEN: "FOR FUN"
Its quite late and she just finally fell 
asleep. 1 really need this little bit of time to 
put all my uncollected thoughts into some 
kind of perspective. Right now, I cant stop 
thinking about a certain concert that I just 
saw. It was the Bruce Springsteen show. 
And, its funny, but all those street images 
wont let me doze off.
From the very beginning, the whole 
affair was a bit spacey. Just getting to the 
show took a number of rides, bullshit raps 
and general hassles. After spilling out a few 
drunks and dealing with a nasty looking 
cop or two, I finally waltzed down to my 
first row seat, whew . ..
It was a long wait but Richie Havens 
opened the show with a very polite set. 
The topical folksinger started to bore the 
audience with some long political raps, but 
he righted his wrongs by performing all his 
crowd-pleasing songs. Richies mixed bag 
included Here Comes the Sun as well as 
Freedom. I was impressed with the 
modest set, especially after he showered 
some local star next to me with splinters 
from his guitar.
Intermission ended and the lights went 
down low, real low. Three people walked 
out' on stage from the wings. One man sat 
down at the piano and quickly started to 
play. A woman (dressed for the occasion) 
sparked up the violin that she was carrying. 
The third person who had taken the stage 
remained huddled in the shadows. From 
where I was sitting, I could detect a young 
man attired in a dirty brown leather jacket. 
The jacket was as short as his hair and 
beard. A pair of loosely-fitting sailors 
trousers was the only thing at all noticeable 
about him. After a few bars (of music) the 
man jumped to the microphone and it was 
only then that I became aware that this 
was Bruce Springsteen. The song he had 
launched into was a softer but equally 
beautiful version of 'incident on 57th 
Street or Spanish Johnny, if youre not 
familiar with the formal 
title.
It was from this point that Springsteens 
whole concert took off. His images of New 
Yorks lost lovers and Detroits profession
al hardcore danced in front of me with a 
realistic wit that Ive rarely heard before. 
The way Springsteen spoke into the micro
phone and acted out his street scenes was 
totally engrossing. He ran around that stage 
like a young shepherd who had just gotten 
the chance to tend his first flock
Everything about this New York/Philly 
based band leader made me conscious of 
his Dylan influences. It was especially not
iceable when Springsteen scratched his 
head as he pondered for a certain lyrical 
line. He would be right in the middle of a 
story concerning himself and some lady, as 
they were enjoying themselves on any 
given Friday night. In a Dylanesque man
ner, he _would remove his hands from his 
guitar and innocently say, Oh yeah, and 
then we moved on over to some 
other... His voice was so gruff and his 
motions were so innocent that he seemed 
entirely convincing.
After running through a few standards 
and perhaps one or two new songs, Spring
steen delivered a knockout punch with a 
super version of the Bob Dylan classic, I
Want You. Springsteen added a totally 
new interpretation to this old hit when he 
slowed the beat and accented a few differ
ent verses. The music was now coming 
across very softly, but he had the audience 
eating right out of his hand.
Thoug Ive concentrated almost exclu
sively on Bruce Springsteen, it must be said 
that his E Street Band was equally exciting. 
This band had all their cues down pat and 
thats exceptional for a large band that has 
so many musical changes to follow. Sax:* 
ophonist Clarence Clemons was absolutely 
ominous-looking on stage. Dressed in a 
white suit with a black hat and shades, 
Clarence looked like he had murder on his 
mind. Actually the only slaying that he did 
was with the saxophone that he command
ed. As Clarence belted out his excruciating 
solos, Bruce Springsteen would lumber by
and listen carefully to every note being \
played.
The two keyboard players on both sides 1
of the stage seemed to be having a ball. j
They kept trading solos, first Danny I
Federici on organ and then the piano play
er whose name I never learned. Garry 
Tallent provided an excellent bass guitar 1 
and Bruce S. filled in with the rhythm and ^ 
lead guitar parts. I
As the hour grew later the band grew 1
more intense. Their music was woven 
around crescendos and split-second timing.
The more he seemed to enjoy himself, the 1
harder it became to take your eyes off 
Bruce Springsteen. His poetry worked, but 
it was his fatal rock n roll that drove 
everyone to their feet, dancing and clap
ping as hard as possible. After the band*^ 
moved into highest gear, there was just 
little to do but dance along and marvel at 
that line you somehow missed on the al
bum the first time. When all the stops were 
pulled out for Kittys Back and 
Rosilita, Springsteen took the micro
phone and screamed,' Lets Boogie. By 
the time the band had done their last en
core Iwas just praying that they wouldnt ^ 
come back for any more. My hands and 
throat were just sore, quickly turning raw.
It had been some show. Whew.
My thoughts immediately afterwards 
were of how to find the nearest bed. You 
just wouldnt believe how exhausting it 
was. I was drained and thats the everloving^ truth. One thing worth noting, however, is how much we need a Bruce Spring
steen. There is a lot of worth in someone 
who can get us off our loads and out danc
ing in the late night. There is nothing 
wrong with a little reminder that were all 
young, happy and free. As Bruce Spring
steen would-add, I aint here for business,
Im only here for fun!
If Bruce Springsteen made any mistakes 
it was that he did not take more advantagtV 
of his softer musical side, because he does 
it so well. Some may argue that he let his 
musical abilities down at the end of his 
show cause he wanted to have a bit more ^ 
fun. Theres nothing the matter with that. 
Many performers today are too wrapped j 
up in their technique; sometimes it seems a 
lot more sense to relax and have that good 
time. One Bruce Springsteen line that f 
sticks out in particular is, Someday well ' 
look back on this and it will all seem 
funnv.
WE NEVER HEARD OFTHE WORD RECESSION
Join the Tartan business staff, help us meet our ad
vertising budget and gain useful experience in advertising 
and business. rep can earn a commission on new ads that 
you sell. Work a couple of hours per week, if you like. For 
more information, call Lester Nathan, 682-4557 or Extension 
656 or stop at Room 52 Skibo, any weekday afternoon.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
> Desk Lamps  Key Service  Artist Brushes 
 Hot Plates  Poster Paints  School Supplies 
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND 
Phone:621-0923

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 11
Col. Lee Gardner
Wednesday March 5 7:30 
SDC Room Morewood Gardens
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning
Rome is Where the Heart is
WHITE HOUSE 
COMMUNICATIONS 
1970-1973
by Lisa Zeidner
It is sad to leave home 
Be it a hamlet 
Or be it Rome! 
-poem by an extra in Fellinis Amacord
Even those who usually dislike Fellini 
will be sorry to leave Amacord. After Satyricon, Amacord is as refreshing as discover
ing a folksy side-street restaurant while 
stranded in Las Vegas. Home is where 
ft Fellinis heart is. His love for the small 
Italian town in Amacord adds a focus and 
clarity missing from earlier works, where 
I the journeys into grotesque fantasy are 
often confusing and alienating.
There is no lack of bizarre detail or 
fantasy in Amacord. Count on Fellini to 
have a shopkeeper with humongous breasts 
or a midget nun; count on him to highlight 
I every wart, pot belly or bulbous nose. 
Some Find Fellinis pageants of grotesques 
distasteful, claiming it is too easy to make 
cripples disturbing. But in Amacord, the 
grotesques are endearing, joyful idiosyncracies.
Boys dance in the fog with imaginary 
partners; shopkeepers gaily shovel snow 
while its still falling. A peacock lands in a 
snowfight, spreading its rainbow feathers 
against the white. Who cares where the bird 
came fromwho questions joy? In Ama
cord, these incidents are unexpected and
magical as daydreams, needing no explan
ation.
Through a series of such whimsical day
dreams, the story of the heros initiation 
into adulthood unfolds. Fascists are march
ing into the town where the young teen is 
intent on snowball-throwing and peeing on 
hats from balconies. His mother dies; his 
father is tortured for being a Socialist; the 
woman he worships is married. Through 
Matts naivete this brutal world becomes 
fresh and exotic.
Fellinis universe is enticing even when 
it is capricious and indifferent. A clear day 
turns to a blizzard, a responsible woman 
chafes you out, a child is caught dropping a 
brick on his brother. The hero matures in a 
town where everyone is a child, jumping 
up from watching a movie to watch the 
snow fall as if it were their first winter. The 
townspeople are impervious to tragedy and 
danger, always springing back to being glee
ful and wild-eyed. As a mental institute 
director says about the heros mad uncle, 
hes just like the rest of us: one day hes 
normal, the next he isnt.
Such philosophies are so simple that 
you suspect Fellini is mocking or judging 
his characters in some underhanded way. 
Fellini is often accused of this sort of ob
scurity. In Amacord Fellini teases about 
his alleged obtuseness by offering a narrat
or who explains the goings-onbut is 
always wrong. He starts to call the towns
people loyal and tenacious and is shot
down by snowballs and obscene tails. By 
the end of Amacord, you dont take the 
narrators interpretations seriously; you 
just like him for his warmth and iijexhaustible energy.
What Amacord dares is for you to ac
cept its nostalgic and compassionate sen
timents, without getting sidetracked by 
themes and meanings. The symbolsa 
woman throwing a bridal bouquet with no 
one to catch it, a sweet Socialist hymn 
contrasted to a raucous Fascist anthemare so direct and accessible that they require
by Gaire Lee
In the absolutely jammed packed Skibo 
Ballroom last Saturday night, the beer-and-music saturated fraternity and soror
ity members waited anxiously for the majic 
hour, a most important midnight when the 
Greek Sing results would be revealed. Fin
ally, the swinging band rested and the roar
ing crowds hushed into silent tension.
The results came as surprises for 
some but for others (especially the win
ners) they were sources of cham
pagne-celebrating ecstasy. In the mix
ed category, Phi Kappa Theta and Chi
no translation.
what resounds in Amacord is not any 
message about the world, but a wonder for 
its richness and complexity. Meaning is a 
dog panting in the square, the gentle sway 
of a hip. How do they get the stars to stay 
up there? the heros father asks. We have 
to use bricks, but what holds the sky to
gether? Not confetti! Amacord demon
strates Fellinis unmatchable talent to 
make any scenesomeone dying or some
one wetting their pantsunaccountably 
mysterious and important.
Omega won over their sole competitor 
for first place. Kappa Kappa Gammas 
PETER PAN and Delta Gammas THE 
UNSINKABLE MOLLY BROWN claim
ed first and second places, respectively, 
in the sorority competition. The biggest 
group of competitors, the fraternities, 
had three winners: first place-Kappa Sig
ma, second-Pi Kappa Alpha, thirdSig
ma Alpha Epsilon. Kappa Sigmas per
formance was introduced as last, but 
now least, they were last on the prog
ram, but soon became first on the Jud
ges list. Review will follow next week 
when asprins have been consumed and 
the fever dies down.
???????????????????????? 
GREEK SING
A FILM INTERVIEW 
WITHSupreme Court Justice 
WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS
PRESENTED BY TOM KERR
sponsored by campus program planning
WHERRETT ROOM 
THURSDAY,MARCH 6
12:30 RM.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
Dear Mark,
I tried to write this in New York, but 
kept on being interrupted by the phone 
and my dog. Chip, who likes to run out at 
the beginning of paragraphs and invariably 
needs to be let in just as Im approaching a 
literary breakthrough.
I got most of this written on Allegheny 
Airlines Flight 925 en route to Pittsburgh 
and I am grateful to the stewardesses on 
that plane for giving me the peace and 
quiet Id been looking for. Not once did 
they ask to be let out or bark to be let 
back in.
In terms of television, I watched very 
little of it this vacation and, as a result, 
those rings under my eyes are flesh-colored 
once again. Id thought that I was watching 
too much TV, but I didnt realize the sever
ity of the situation when I was two hours 
late for my friends 9 oclock engagement 
party. She was upset with me for two 
reasons: shed wanted to see Mary Tyler 
Moore herself, and she just couldnt accept 
my excuse that Carol Burnetts question 
and answer period got off to a really good 
start.
TV plays a much different role in New 
York than it does in Pittsburgh. (Currently 
were flying over Wilkes-Barre, where, 
other than inflating condoms, it is the sole 
source of entertainment.) Because it is 
blessed with top quality newspapers and 
several radio stations which are all news 
all the time, NYs TV newspersons dont 
get as much attention as their Pittsburgh 
counterparts. Tom Snyder, co-anchorman 
of NBCs local news in addition to his 
duties as Tomorrow host, seems to want to 
change that, and hes meeting with mixed 
results.
Anyone whos seen Tomorrow in the 
last few weeks probably knows what Im 
talking about. Snyder has had some big 
names on the show lately (Lloyd Bucher, 
Jeb Magruder, Jimmy Hoffa), and he has 
shown only slight interest in what they 
have had to say. On a recent program, he 
interviewed some of the greatest TV and 
radio announcers of all time. He spent the 
entire sixty minutes trying to inscribe him
self in that elite clubs register. I dont 
think Ive ever heard a talk-show host use 
the word we so many times. Hes also 
developed an exceptionally loud, forced 
laugh. _____________________________
Some of his research has been down
right sloppy. Thorough preparation has 
been upstaged by the thrill of being on 
camera. In a recent Newsweek article, he 
was quoted as saying, When the red lights 
go on, Im the President. Perhaps he con
siders slipshod work his executive priv
ilege, but I think its starting to seriously 
mar the quality of his broadcasts. In speak
ing with Ken Osmond and Jerry Mathers 
(Eddie Haskell and Beaver respectively on 
Leave It to Beaver), he wasnt clear on 
whether Eddie was Beavers or Wallys best 
friend. After clarifying it for the audience, 
he pursued the issue another two minutes 
for his own personal education. He took 
great pride in being able to show that 
Mathers hadnt been killed in Vietnam and 
that Osmond was neither Alice Cooper nor 
Johnny Wadd, porno flick star. (The 
Cooper rumor can be traced to a fiction 
developed by Alice himself, while the 
Wadd story probably has its roots in a less 
than spectacular facial resemblance. Ken 
Osmond is, in fact, a Los Angeles police
man.) Tom Snyder seems to view his 
presence as a public service. As a result, 
hes become self-indulgent and blatantly 
egotistical. Sooner or later, thats going to 
be dull. Its about time NBC took some of 
the Tom out of Tomorrow.
Though less controversial, Tom has held 
his own on the nightly news where the 
format is stronger than even his person
ality. Snyder reads well and presents the 
news with clarity, depth, even concern. 
Still, his national exposure threatens to 
make him bigger than the news hes report
ing. Snyder doesnt discourage this and his 
obvious self-love turns some people on and 
others off.
In either case, people tune in 
Snyderon the news locally, once a week 
on network news and four times weekly on 
Tomorrow. His name is a household word 
defying connotation. Whether hes seeking 
objectivity or immortality, his is a face that 
people know and a personality that people 
can become involved with. Folks watch 
him hoping that hell get out of line, and 
often he does.
As long as people tune him in, NBC 
wont be too concerned about whether 
they do so out of love or hate.
Arnie
GIRLS. . .ARE YOU LOOKING - 
FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the following: Theater Director, 
Piano Accompanist and singing, Archery, Tennis Director, Golf, 
Photography, Cheerleading, Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. 
Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing In
structor or General Athletics. Secretary also needed.
Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md 21209
March 18 "The Joy of Art"
Professor Bernard Sachs 
Assistant Professor, Painting & Sculpture, 
Carnegie-Mellon University
- TUESDAY AT 11:30 A.M. ~
Room 100 SKIBO Carnegie-Mellon Student Union
(Lunch, $1.15, is optional. Speaker begins at 11:45 a.m. )
ALL GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS AND FACULTY WELCOME
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621 8875
B'NAI B RITH HILLELJEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Announces
WINTER LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES
at Carnegie-Mellon University
March 11 "American Jewish Writers"
Professor Irving Howe 
Distinguished Professor of English 
City College of New York
The Pennsylvania Ballet will again visit Pittsburgh at Heinz Hall March 18 at 8:00. 
Watch for the review by Susan Meyer.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 13
hyv:rEED - llockxn
15?byCbldm I ctmg tac ,CJhoajer h/
One rninJ I'm in a w >rk alky xKXwgiHQ 
jwornvnci Jcd^hc xx furio I krw
a
and
5hinq habcap joulls rm mio Jhz >ta| 
id mio Kis crcnu pJact. I aeT a ra
bod^ouidihfm^.Qj'oi____________________
ciui<r6. 'Corre Jo JKmk af UT Jhaz 
# ifrit uen anyore la ask....
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..................................................7:00 P.M.  Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES .......................................................................Tech House
(M thru F5:00 P.M.) (T, Th8:00 A.M.) (W,F12 NOON)
(in skibo 39)
Lenten Prayer ServiceTues. 7:30 P.M. at Tech House 
The Community House is the Tech House *5125 Margaret Morrison
Among other things,
TKSTUCKERS
Have
Used, Rare, & Out-of-Print BOOKS
For Study or Pleasure - For Owning or Giving 
(Free Search Service, Too!)
2703 MURRAY AVENUE, SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521-0249
(Hours flexible best call ahead)
^'Kut-.'Peimy wai laughing on 
. "the outside,crying on trie inside because tomorrow waj flryz big Lit test!
m
At
n._.m3R-ATfenny saved is a
'U'&firn
WALDENBOOKS 
Allegheny 
Shopping 
Center 
Pittsburgh
DR. JAMES ANDERSON 
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH 
SLIDES AND DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30 
WHERRETTROOM 
SPONSORED BY: 
CAMPUS PROGRAM 
PLANNING
crisis in the atmosphere  OZONE
NEED HELP 
planning an H&SS education?
Upperclass students are 
available for information and advice.
The Student Advisors Program 
PH 17C, 12:30-4:30, Mon-Fri 
r call 621-2600 x8710
Information On Aliyah 
A CONFERENCE ABOUT LIFE 
IN ISRAEL FOR THE YOUNG 
AND THE YOUNG AT HEART
Sunday, March 3, 1975,
from 2-5 p.m.
Jewish Community Center 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Information: Call Rom Ofer, 683-7277.
._o S_r 
|veetr 
c__n
ir_euoudp
Informed sources report that 
summer job opportunities for 
college students look good this 
year. National Parks, Dude 
Ranches, Guest Resorts, Private 
Camps, and other tourist areas 
throughout the nation are now 
seeking student applications.
Summer job placement coordi
nators at Opportunity Research 
(SAP) report that despite national 
economics tourist areas are 
looking for a record season. Polls 
indicate that people may not go 
for the big purchases such as new 
cars, new homes, furniture or 
appliances, but most appear to be 
planning for a big vacation.
A free booklet on student job 
assistance may be obtained by 
sending a self-addressed stamped 
envelope toOpportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO. 55 Flathead Dr., 
Kalispell, MT.59901. Student job 
seekers are urged to apply early!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
FREE TUTORS
IN ALL
FRESHMAN and SOPHOMORE SCIENCE 
and ENGINEERING COURSES.
For More Information
Call or Drop in to the PEER HELP CENTER. 
BAKER HALL 150-A 621-9900
Learn to land a jet 
here and you can land one
Pitt-CMU R e-Match
Be Someone Special. Fly Navy.
Bringing in a supersonic jet on a 10,000 ft. cement runway is tough 
enough. But landing one on a 500 ft. piece of a carrier deck, moving at 
25 knots, is even tougher. Only a few men are good enough to do it. And 
they're all Navy trained. How can you become a member of the Naval Air 
team? One way is to join while youre still in college. One of the advantages 
of being part of the Aviation Reserve Officer Candidate (AVROC) Program 
is that it lets you continue working toward your degree?
Getting your Navy Wings isn't easy. The training is tough The least 
that will be expected of you is the best that other pilots can do Their limits 
are your starting blocks, their-expertise your primer. But if you succeed, 
your future is assured whether you remain in the Navy or not.
For more information
Talk to Lt. Tom Flaherty in the placement office Wednesday and Thurs
day, March 5th and 6th or call him at 644-5889/97
by Dave Girdany
Dave Cornelius highlighted the weekend 
hockey action by scoring the three-goal 
hattrick on Friday evening against St. 
Francis in Johnstown. The games final 
score was 9 to 1 in favor of the Tartans. 
Matt Goldsmith kept alive his goal-scoring 
streak by contributing two goals to the 
Tartan cause. The Tartans got off to a slow 
start as they led by only 2-1 after the first 
period. However, as the game progressed, 
CMLPs lead increased to the final eight-goal 
margin. Doug Johnston played the entire 
game in goal and did a good job in allowing 
only the one first period goal.
This victory, coupled with the forfeit 
victory Saturday afternoon against Penn 
State/McKeesport, raises CMLTs league 
record to 8-1-0 and 12-1-0 overall. The 
next game is the second BIG game of the 
season, a rematch with Pitt this Saturday.
DUKES FALL TO CMU
by David V. Groupe
The Tartan leers will look for sweet 
revenge this Saturday when they meet the 
Pitt Panthers at 3 pm in the Civic Arena.
Regardless of the outcome, both teams 
expect to meet again for the WPIHA 
championship.
When Pitt and CMU clashed for the first 
time this season (February 15), Pitt 
overtook a Tartan first period lead to come 
out on top 8-3. CMU started off fast and 
hard in the first period. With good skating 
and accurate passing, they clearly out
played Pitt to gain a 3-1 leadthat single 
goal by Pitt had been scored with a two 
man advantage. But the second period was 
a different story: the Tartans now a little 
overconfident, and Pitt determined to get 
back in the game. CMU then started having 
trouble with the penalty box and by the 
end of the second period Pitt was on top 
5-3. The Tartans never recovered their 
game and Pitt added 3 goals in the third 
period.
Since then, CMU has acquired a new 
starter, Murray Leety, a former Princeton 
Player and teammate of Syl Apps from the 
late 60s. Murray will add a new dimension 
to the Tartan offense, and allow Mike 
Kenworthy to return to defense. Tom 
Grimmout since January 26 with a 
broken wristhopes to be back as aCornelius HattrickPaces 9-1 Attack
starting center this Saturday. The addition 
of Murray and the return of Tom Grimm 
should give enough depth for the Tartans 
to skate a strong third line Jerry Hutchinson 
John Hauser and A1 Wilkinson.
It should be a great game. Get your 
tickets before they run out at the Skibo 
information desk or from any of the 
members of the Hockey team.
It is a very important game, since the win
ner will probably have the edge in the 
WPIHA playoffs the following weekend. 
Game time is 3:00 pm. Tickets are avail
able at the Information Desk or from in
dividual team members.
Scoring Summary
First Period (1) CMU-Goldsmith 10 (Corn
elius, Graves ) 2:40 (2) CMU-Leety 1 (Ken
worthy) 4:41 (3) SF-Zeigler (Chudkowski, 
Wright) 14:08
Second Period (4) CMU-Goldsmith 11 
(Graves, Eastman) 2:13 (5) CMU-Cornelius 
7 2:44 (6) CMU-Gallaway 4 (Arturo) 5:58 
(7) CMU-Miller 1 (Leety, Gallaway) 11:29 
Third Period (8) CMU-Arturo 8 (Ken
worthy, Leety) 1:44 (9) CMU-Cornelius 8 
(Kenworthy) 10:54 (10) CMU-Cornelius 9 
(Bouse) 13:29
by Dave Girdany
In a rough battle for second place in the 
WPIHA, the CMU Tartans toppled the 
Duquesne Dukes by a score of 4-2 on 
Saturday, February 22 at the Civic Arena. 
Matt Goldsmith put CMU on the score
board at 8:02 of the first period, following 
a scramble in front of the net. Since CMU 
last played the Dukes on December 8, Matt 
has scored at least one goal in every game 
and currently leads the Tartans with nine 
goals in league play. Jack Arturo broke out 
of his scoring slump by scoring one goal 
and assisting on another. Leading scorer 
Dave Cornelius and Mike Gallaway 
accounted for the other Tartan goals.
As compared to previous games, few 
penalties were called, each team being 
charged with six two-minute penalties in 
the wide-open, but lackluster game. Both
Duquesne goals were scored on power 
plays, as were the first two for CMU.
Neither team played particularly well in 
this game. However, the recent addition of 
Murray Leety to the team, coupled with 
the return of Tom Grimm, will make the 
Tartans much stronger; look for them to 
start putting it all together as the playoffs 
approach.
Scoring Summary
First Period (1) CMU-Goldsmith 9 
(Stuever, Cornelius) 8:02 (2) CMUGallaway 3 (Arturo) 10:44 
Second Period (3) CMU-Arturo 7 (Hauser, 
Gallaway) 8:52 (4)Duq-Szcurko (Cope
land, Boy lan) 12:14
Third Period (5) CMU-Cornelius 6 (Gold
smith, Leety) 0:09 (6) Duq-Bender (Boylan, Szcurko) 6:39
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
Photo by Mary K. Groupe

---------------------------------------------------

summerneurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U S GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
 CALL TOLL FREE
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
,1/2
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
1-800-325-4867 
I. M. News
by Mike Pochan
The IM swim meet will be held Wednes
day, March 5 at 4:30 in the gym pool. 
Entries must be in by March 4. Check IM 
bulletin board for practice times.
All of those teams that win IM cham
pionships this year should be sure to send a 
representative to Intramural Night March 7 
to receive their trophies.
Playoffs Cut Field to 15
The preliminary IM basketball playoffs 
have reduced the contenders for the three 
titles to fifteen. Beginning tonight, that 
field will be cut down to six.
In the minor leagues, ATO-Drunks de
feated Phriedberg Phools 54-31. The 
Drunks play Banana Griffs for the final 
playoff spot. McGilldoes won over Turkey 
Butts by a forfeit because of illegal players. 
McGilldoes meet the fired-up Chegsa 
Chickens next.
In the intermediates, SAE dumped Joy 
Boys of ATO 51-30 to face Katoosh. 
Coaches All-Stars edged TX 42-40 in 
double overtime. The Dump and the Play
ers settled nothing as their game ended in a 
protest, with the Roadrunners waiting in 
the wings. The Clams triumphed over 
Violence as Violences tactics resulted in 
the team being ejected from the court with 
two minutes left in the game.
ATO faces the Orangutangs and Pride 
takes on Salt and Pepper in the big games 
tonight.
VLL STARS Vs. STEELERS
by Mike Pochan
The Super Bowl Champion Pittsburgh 
Steelers Basketball Team will appear this 
Friday, March 7, in the Skibo Gym at 8:30 
pm. The Steelers will take on the intra
mural all-star team.
Preceding the Steeler-All-Star game will 
be the IM major league basketball cham
pionship which will pit the winner of 
ATO-Orangutangs versus the winner of 
Pride-Salt and Pepper for the championship 
trophy. The game begins at 7:00 pm.
At 8:00 pm, IM Board President Jeff 
Lettrich will present championship tro
phies to the winners of the IM sports so far 
this year. Then, at 8:30, the Steelers.
Listed as possibilities for the basketball 
squad are L.C. Greenwood, Ernie Holmes, 
John McMakin, Larry Brown. Roy Gerela, 
Preston Pearson, Jon Kalb, Jim Clack, 
Sieve Furness and Steve Davis.
Officials will be. Bob Berth and Paul 
1 1-'viasovich of the Eastern Intercollegiate 
iball Officials Association.
Thats this Friday, March 7, at 7:00 pm 
if you want to enjoy all of the action.
CMU identification required.
the
MCAT
Review Seminar
Intensive Weekend 
Preparation 
for the May 3rd MCAT 
Taught by 
Practicing Physicians
The instructing Physician offers the 
prospective medical student a thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as well as an 
evaluation of the candidate s strengths 
and weaknesses Each section of the 
Test is extensively simulated and care
fully reviewed
Complete tuition, including materials, is 
$95.00
State College April 5 & 6 
Philadelphia-April 12 & 13 
Pittsburgh April 19 & 20
for further information 
Call collect
814-435-6521
or write:
MCAT Review Center.
32 Gramercy Park South 
New York, N Y. 10003
THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975-Page 15
Swim Season 
Comes To An End
TRACY NELSON
AND
Mother Earth
SATURDAY, MARCH 15 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
8:00 & 10:00 P.M. 
Tickets: 
$1.00 with CMU ID 
$2.00 Without
Available at: 
CMU-Skibo Information Desk
Pitt Student Union
by Diane Maddock
The swimming team lost against Grove 
City with a score of 65-26. This team de
feat did result in some individual records, 
fcjohn Rossi came in third in the 1000 free
style. Jeff Blond captured a third place in 
the 200 freestyle, and Dave Yortigitis took 
third place in the 50 freestyle. Billy Gregg 
broke a school record in the 200 IM event 
with the time of 2:20.0. Diver Patty Dyke 
took third place in the required diving and 
first place in the optional diving. She broke 
the school record with 153.3 points. In the 
A100 freestyle event Jeff Blond came in 
second while Steve Cropcho came in third. 
In the 200 backstroke, Gerry McNerney 
came in third. In the 500 freestyle Frank 
Duttman came in third. Bobby Matysek 
came in second and Neb Uber came in 
third in the 200 breaststroke. Although the 
team tried really hard ^hey were just over
powered by the swimmers of Grove City. 
I The highlight of the day was eating dinner 
at the Horn-A-Plenty on the way home.
Several weeks ago, Coach Jim Crist ded
icated February 8 as Senior Day in 
honor of the four graduating swimmers 
who were swimming in their last home 
meet: Co-captains Steve Cropcho and 
Gerry McNerney, breaststroker Cliff 
Present and diver Patty Dyke. The lost of 
these people from the team wont be truly
recognized till the season resumes in Sep
tember. Their participation in the meet 
against Case-Western Reserve was greatly 
needed and appreciated and aided in lead
ing the team to a 57-56 victory. Divers 
Patty Dyke and Gerry McNerney added 
eight points to the victory and Steve 
Cropcho took two thirds adding two more 
points.
The team wasnt too psyched to swim 
against Grove City. But to keep their spirits 
up, the swimmers looked ahead to the PAC 
Championships where individual perform
ances will be the key factor. The cham
pionships this year are being held at Alle
gheny College on Thursday, February 27, 
28 and March 1. With the completion of 
these events the swimming season will end. 
The team under Coach Crist was 3-3 in the 
PAC ratings and 3-7 overall.
Coach Crist summarized the season. The 
unprecedented victories over W&J and 
Case-Western Reserve showed improved 
depth of the team. We feel this has been 
the strongest swimming team in years.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-March 4, 1975
SUMMER 
SESSIONS 
CMU1975
During the summer, 1975 there will be two 
six-week sessions, as follows:
1st Six-Week Session 
May 13June 20
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd Six-Week Session 
June 23August 1
Pre-College Program, CFA 
Advanced Placement/Early 
Admission Program 
Upward Bound
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE 
TUITION WILL BE 
$24 PER UNIT
Other Workshops, Master Classes and 
Special Programs will be announced
The following is the tentative list of 
courses to be offered. The actual courses 
to be offered will depend on the student 
response.
Please give your tentative reply by 
MARCH 14. 
Final schedule will be published in 
early April.
Carnegie-Mel Ion University
Name______
Local Address
1 am interested in the following courses
Number Session (1) or (2)
1______________________________________________
 2_____________________________________________
Please return this coupon to:
Director of Summer Programs 
Room 108 Warner Hall 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
Class schedules will be announced after it is
------------------ WoroH
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Programs  REVISED
Statistics:36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1)
MIS36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
Biology:03-121 Modern Biology9 units(1)
03-231 Biochemistry I9 units
03-240 Cell Biology9 units(1)
03-121 Modern Biology9 units(2)
Chemistry:09-100 Elementary Chemical Laboratory6 units(2)
09-105 Elementary Physical Chemical Principles9 units(1)
09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles9 units(1)
09-109 Introduction to Chemical Laboratory9 units(1)
09-117 Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218 Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
09-243 Physical Chemistry II9 units(1)
09-244 Physical Chemistry III9 units(2)
Computer15-101 Computer Appreciation9 units(1)or (2)
Science:15-104 Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) or (2)
15-111 Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(1) or (2)
15-211 Fundamental Structures of Programming9 units(1) or (2)
15-250 Numerical Methods9 units(1)or (2)
15-380 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence9 units(Dor (2)
Mathematics21-121 Calculus I11 units(1)
21-122 Calculus II11 units(1) or (2)
21-123 Calculus III11 units(Dor (2)
21-259 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra9 units(1) Note A
21-260 Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis9 units( 1 ) Note A
21-144 Introduction to Applied Mathematics9 unitsSee Note A
21-450 Introduction to Topology9 units(1)
21-141 Linear Algebra9 unitsSee Note A
Physics:
Note A: Courses so designated would be offered in the evening 
in one 12-week term, May 13th through August 1st. 
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)10 units(1)
33-121 Physics I : Mechanics (Lect. and Rec.)10 units(1)
33-122 Physics 11: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)10 units(1)
33-122 Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Lect. and Rec.)10 units(1)
33-123 Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism10 units(1)
33-443 Optics (with emphasis on classical optics)9 units(1)
33-113 Physics of Musical Sound9 units(2)
AMS:70-363 Law in Modern American Society9 units(1)
CIT
Civil12-102 Engineering Measurements9 units(1)
Engineering:12-103 Systems Engineering I9 units(1)
12-205 Introduction to Engineering I9 units(D
FINE ARTS51-116 Calligraphy9 units(2)
Art:60-251,751 Ceramics9 units(2)
60-119,719 Drawing9 units(2)
60-125, 725 Drawing for Painting and Sculpture9 units(2)
60-265, 765 Fabric Design9 units(2)
60-342,742 Glassblowing9 units(2)
60-237,737 Intaglio9 units(2)
60-235,7C Lithography9 units(2)
60-379, 7 i History of Drawing and Prints9 units(2)
60-254,7 \ Metalcrafts9 units(2)
60-226,  6 Painting9 units(2)
60-231, >1 Screen Printing9 units(2)
60-266,^<36 Weaving9 units(2)
Music:57-----^individual Lessons: Piano, Organ, Vocal, Instrumental3 12 units(2)
57-181 Ear Training and Sight Singing3 units(2)
57-83L The Second Viennese Classical School6 units(2)*
57-879 Functional Guitar for Music Educators6 units(2)*
57-867 Administration and Supervision in Music Education6 units(2)*
57-875 Contemporary Problems in Music Educa6 units(2)*
57-805 Keyboard Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)*
57-891 Song Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)*
57-855 Seminar in String Literature (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)*
57-873 Principles of Music Education6 units(2)**
57-876 Practicum in String Techniques6 units(2)**
57-877 Music Practicum for Elementary Classroom Teachers6 units(2)**
57-806 Keyboard Literature II (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)**
57-892 Song Literature II (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)**
57-732 Secondary Voice (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)**
H&SS
Economics:73-100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I12 units(1)
73-200 Econ. Growth and Fluctuations12 units(1)
73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.12 units(1)
English:76-406 Modern Novel9 units(1)
76-428 American Drama of the Twentieth Century9 units(1)
76-580 Composition9 units(1)
76-721 Shakespeare12 units(2)
76-886 The Comic Spirit in World Literature12 units(2)
76-809 The Twentieth Century American Novel12 units(2)
76-803 Writing Workshop12 units(2)
History:79-500 Power and Values in the Modern World9 units(Dor (2)
79-103 American Civilization9 units(1) or (2)
79-703 Peacemaking12 units(2)
79-853 Interpreting the History of Modern Thought12 units(2)
79-857 Readings in Historyvar. units(2)
79-869 Internship in Historical Researchvar. units(2)
79-879 Internship in Curriculum Developmentvar. units(2) *
Moaern Languages and Literature:
Tutorial Translation Workshops:
82-620 Translation Workshop: French6-12 units(Dor (2)
82-630 Translation Workshop: German6-12 units(Dor (2)
82-640 Translation Workshop: Spanish6-12 units(1) or (2)
Programmed basic language skills courses:
82-107 Programmed FrenchUp to 18 units U) or U>
82-123 Programmed GermanUp to 18 units (1) or (2)
82-143 Programmed SpanishUp to 18 units (1) or (2)
(1) = First Session: May 13-June 20; (2) = Second Session: June 23-August 1 ; *June 23-July 11 ; * "July 14August 1
