3TKc Camelie tartan
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 26; No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1932
Dr. Webster N. Jones 
Appointed Director of 
College of Engineering
fficial of Goodrich Co. 
Fills Position Left 
by Mr. Mott 
RESEARCH BUREAU 
ADDED TO SCHOOL
illurgical Department to 
Tse Three Engineers 
in New Division
By JOHN P. HILTZMore in evidence this year tlian xt any other time in the history ) Carnegie is the program of changes in the faculty and in the administration. The resignation, ast year, of prominent members of Lliese groups and the addition of research divisions and laboratories o the school have been largely responsible for these new appointnents.Dr. Webster N. Jones, general superintendent of the processing livision of the B. F. Goodrich company of Akron, Ohio, has been ippointed director of the. College 
if Engineering, the position left acant by the resignation of Wiliam E. Mott.The new director joined the Goodrich firm in 1919 and after filling many positions with them was, in 1928, appointed general superintendent of the processing division with full responsibility for ^l phases of the technical, staff, .d production activities of this apartment.Dr. Jones is a graduate of the 
niveiBity of Missouri from which istitut.ion he received both the achelor's and masters degrees. e completed his graduate study t Harvard and holds the degree f doctor of philosophy from that iniversity. In engaging in educa.ional work Dr. Jones is returning ,o a field in which he has spent lome ten years of his professional areer. His former connections vith university work involved eaching at Purdue. Harvard, laine, Missouri, and Montana. In. ddition he has been largely reponsible for the development of training school for young euineers at the Akron plant.Three new faculty appointmentsii the bureau of metallurgical research, Dr. Robert F. Mehl, director, Dr. Charles S. Barrett, chief C Crystallography section, and Dr. aha F. Smith, assistant metalurgist, come to Carnegie Tech !rom the Naval Research Laboritory, Washington, D. C. Dr. Mehl >vas professor of chemistry and head of this department in Juniata College, Huntingdon', Pa., from 'QO3 to 1925; and superintendent .a the division of physical Metal.urgy in the Naval Research Station from 1927 to 1931. After this he took the position of assistant director of the research labora">es of the American Rolling Mill ipany during the years 1931-32. rover Rawle Greenslade, who psen a night school instructor ZJarnegie Tech, chief physicist he Flannery Bolt Company, and sicist in the United States Bua of Mines, will assume his posil as instructor of physics.
(Continued on Page Two)
iltie Band Meets 
liursday Evening
?he Kiltie Band will organize * hold its first practice of the on next Thursday evening at v. m. in the womens gymnaeshmen who play band innts are asked by Fred Ford, er of the band, to report at /actice, since there is equipenough for many additional nbers. Band members are ible for activity keys and will on the trips with the football 
n.his summer the band added to repaired its equipment, so now e will be enough Kiltie uniis to outfit seventy men, which make this years group the sst uniformed Kiltie Band ever ;mbled at Carnegie, he band will make its initial (ic appearance of the current at the Geneva game on Octo-1. Mr. Ford expects that the d will go with the football team several trips.F. Sullivan, veteran director le Kiltie Band, will be back to de the Kilts this year. His astant, the student leader, will beE. Spangler.
sbinetsJWill Join
Meeting at Commons
The first combined Y. M. C. A.Y. W. C. A. cabinet luncheon ting will be. held on Thursday .2:30 in the Commons Annex. 
i speaker will be Mr. Arthur fli. The Y cabinet is composed 
udent members and directs the ities of the association, eshmen have become acquaint*ith some of the activities of Y through the entertainments by "Y" in their honor during man Week. All students are an opportunity to become ^rs of the organization.
NEW DIRECTOR
DR. WEBSTER N. JONES
Dr. Webster N. Jones, for the past few years general [superin
tendent of the processing department of the B. F. Goodrich Company has been appointed Director of the College of Engineering. He succeeds William E. Mott, who resigned last year.
Council Issues 
Budget Rules 
For Chairmen
All Contracts Must be 
Signed by Executive 
Secretary
A list of rules formulated by 
Student Council regarding budgets, 
sales of tickets, contracts, pur
chases, and chaperones for all events on or off campus has been issued for . use by the chairmen of all committees, accompanied by a deciee by the Executive Board of Carnegie that no solicitations of funds from the use of the name of Carnegie Institute of Technology shall be made by any undergraduate organization without authorization from the President of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, duly evidenced by properly endorsed cre
dentials.
The rules to be followed by chairmen of all committees are:
 1. Budgets must be xiresented to Student Council at least a month before the date of the event.2. Budgets must be followed strictly. No changes can be made without the approval of Student Council.3. Three per cent for administration must be included in budgets.4. All contracts must be approved and signed by the executive secretary.5. All purchases must be made by purchase order of the Student Council and approved by John L. Kronenberg or Mr. Rollin V. Davis. These orders may be obtained at the Student Council office.6. Ticket-takers are employed by Student Council. Notify the Council of the number required.7. Arrangements for tickets must be made at the Council office. Tickets for all events are standard with the C. I. T. Seal.8. Strict accounting of all money handled must be made either to the executive secretary or to the treasurer of Council.9. For events off campus permission must be obtained from the Mayor, and arrangements made for an officer. Dean Taibell should be con-v___(Continued on Page Two)
Plans are Laid 
By Delta Skull 
F or Assemblies
Junior Class Honorary 
Given Control by 
Student Council
SAMUEL C. WICKS IS 
PROGRAM CHAIRMAN
Waddell and Drama Dept. 
Will Feature First 
Program Tues.
Delta Skull, the junior class hon
orary, will have charge of all Gen
eral Asserhblies for the coming school y^ar. A committee composed of members of the junior class honorary, headed by Samuel C. Wicks 
as chairman of assemblies, will 
plan programs for each session, being assisted in this task by Dr. Baker, Dean Green, Dean Tarbell, 
and the Student Council.
The object of transferring the planning of the assemblies from the Student Council to Delta Skull 
was to give the organization extra activity as the only other major work under their supervision is 
the Junior Prom.
The first assembly, as planned by 
the committee, will be held October 4, at the Carnegie Music Hall. A program designed chiefly to wel
come the freshmen will be presented.
Committee plans include an act 
presented by the Drama Department, and a musical program furnished by the Musical Department 
and the Kiltie Band. Josef Lentz, president of the Student Council ernment, John W. Ladd, editor of: the Tartan, will speak on the subject of school publications, and Bob 
Waddell, coach of the Carnegie football team, will tell something about Carnegie sports.
Mr. Lentz will preside at the program.
At all the assemblies this year, special sections in the auditorium 
will be reserved .for the faculty members and members of the various honorary societies.
Drama Dept. 
Alters Plans 
For Training
Activities of Freshmen 
to be Centered in 
Diction Classes
By ROY Ml NET
Beginning with the largest num
ber of new students admitted iu years, the Department of Drama shows the power of its leadership as one of the foremost schools of dramatic art in the country by ini
tiating a timely program which in
cludes important changes in the plan of training, the addition of a 
course that meets the requirements for a Pennsylvania Teachers Certificate, a new faculty member to direct freshman dramatic activities, and improved staging facilities.
Significant among the changes is the plan whereby all the dramatic 
activities of the first-year students will be centered in the diction classes. This expansion of the diction work assures a more thorough training in the approach to acting. 
Instead of requiring new students to prematurely appear in the major productions, concentrated work on diction, in class-room scenes, and in one-act plays for presentation in the Studio Theater in the Union will be provided.
For director of these first-year dramatics, Mr. Kenyon has secured Mr. L. R. Merrill to serve as Professor of 'Diction. Mr. Merrill re
ceived his doctors degree at Yale, and studied widely at such schools as the American Academy of Dramatic Art, the Rice School of the Spoken Word, and the Central school of Speech Training of Lon
don. He has appeared on the stage (Continued on Page Four)
Vacationing Facility Visit Several 
Distant Places During the Summer
Dr. Miller Offers Comments 
About Recent Election 
Held in Germany
Besides the traditional European 
invasion by Carnegie faculty, 'this 
summer Canada, New England 
and even South America attracted vacationing instructors. Dr. Baker, Dean Keeble, Dr. Nathan Miller, Dr. Samuel Ross, Prof. Elmer 
Kenyon, Mr. C. W. Larkin, and Miss Rebecca Pilgrim spent their 
summer in Europe. Dr. Miller was in Germany during the recent 
election. He says that although a very large percentage of the people vote and that the interest in the 
election was very intense, there was no disorder. He also says that Paris seems prosperous, and that both the French and German people show very little of the effects
of the depression. Mr. Larkin studied industrial conditions in Europe, and Professor Kenyon recent developments in the European 
theater.Canada, attracted Dr. Max Schoen, Dr. V. N. Krivobak, Prof. Beryl Warden, Dr. Harry Seitz, Mr. Karl Iv. Stevens, and Mr. Michael Schonvizner. Dean Green spent the summer iu Atlantic City and Dean Tarbell at Cape Cod. Dr. Harold L. Land, Dr. Griffis, Dr. Arthur C. Jewett, Dr. Charles R. Leeds, and 
Miss Dorothy Ivanrich were in various parts of New England.Miss Louise Russell sailed from New York, through the Panama Canal to the west coast of South America. Prof. Willibald Trinks was in South-eastern United States 
studying conditions of the iron and steel industry, and 3TKc ' Wilfred 
Readio spent the summer painting in Colorado, and Prof. Edmund 
Ashe along the Chesapeake Bay.
ifnveB ty-^B T! 
CSM t^loy!Nna
Starting next Monday, Campus Notes, weekly Tartan radio broadcast, will be resumed over Station WWSW at 5:35 in the afternoon. The Tartan period will continue for 10 minutes and will be followed by news notes from the University of Pittsburgh campus. Each week at this time "Campus Notes will be heard on the air. This year the notes will be given by John W. Ladd, editor-in-chief of the Tartan.
Alumnae Give 
First D anee 
To Students
Art Tracys Orchestra 
to Furnish Music 
in Thistle Hall
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie College Alumnae will hold their annual benefit dance on Friday evening, September 30, in Thistle Hall. This affair is always the first All-Carnegie social function of the school calendar. It is held partly as a welcome to Freshmen, partly as a reunion to Upperclassmen, and partly to increase the scholarship fund from which the M. M. C. C. Alumnae grant several scholarships every year.
All undergraduates as well as alumni may attend the Alumnae Dance. This occasion affords Freshmen their first opportunity to acquaint themselves with Carnegie dances.
Art Tracys Orchestra, a well known band in this district, has been engagedThe price of tickets will be 1 per couple and may be obtained on the campus from any of the following people: Mr. Davis, Y office,Gloria Kloos, Ann Warden, Veronica Kloos, Mary Husband, Martha Robinson, Aline Ross, .Margaret Waters.
The committee includes: JaneCroyle, chairman; Lois McGregor, Margaret Accipiter, Grace Borgerding, Cora Lee Henlc, Mildred Ba:  tiau, Margaret Keenoy, Jean Roy Austrow, Betty Simon, Nancy Sloan.
The following will be chaperones: Miss Mary Watson Green,Mr. A. W. Tarbell, Dr. and Mrs. Watkins, Mr. and Mrs. Shaffer, Mrs. Harnock, and Mrs. J. C. Harrold, President of the M. M. C. C. Alumnae Association.
Various Churches 
Invite Students
Numerous churches in the Pittsburgh district will soon hold receptions for the purpose of familiarizing out-of-town students with local churches. These receptions, the first of whfeli is to be given on Thursday night, October 6, also afford new students an opportunity to become better acquainted with their classmates and with the members of their respective denominations.
On Thursday night, October 0, the following churches will hold receptions: Saint Andrews Lutheran, at Center and Morewood avenues; First English Lutheran at Sixth avenue and Grant street; First Baptist at Bayard street and Bellefield avenue.The Y. M. and W. H. A. will entertain Jewish students in the vicinity on Tuesday, October 11.The Shadyside Presbyterian Church at Amberson and Westminster streets will give a dinn.er on Wednesday, October 12.Later in the week definite notices of the time and place the events are to be held will be sent to students individually.
Student Directory to 
Be Available Soon
The Student Directory, a booklet published annually listing the names, addresses, and telephone 
numbers of Carnegie students, will be ready for sale in three weeks.Robert E. Robinson, editor of 
Tri-Publications, has several new additions pianned for the directory, one of which is a list of the facultys names and addresses, previously available only by securing one of the few copies of the Faculty Bulletin.
Freshmen interested in publications should present themselves to Mr. Davis in the Y. M. C. A. office 
some time this week. Positions are open for typists and salesmen. Both jobs earn activity keys and lead to major editorial and business 
positions after two years' service.
Student Council Has 
First Meeting Today
The Student Council will hold its 
first meeting of the year on Tuesday evening, September 27, at 7 p. m. in the Y Office. All members are to be present. It would be 
well to remember that three absences during the year disqualifies the absentee from receiving an activities key.
Dormitories 
Are Improved 
Over Summer
Plumbing Is Renewed; 
Tile Shower Baths 
Are Installed
BUILDINGS PAINTED; 
STUDENTS DO WORK
Landscaping Has Beautified 
Carnegie Campus In 
Numerous Spots
By SAMUEL C. WICKS
The summer just closing has been a busy one for Mr. Frank Orbin, business manager, and Colonel Fairley, superintendent of buildings 
and grounds.The principal project completed 
was the improvement of the Mens Dormitories where new water mains and steam lines were run to supply the entire group; twenty tile shower rooms with new plumbing were erected; three hundred radiator thermostatic steam valves were installed, making the heating system modern in every respect; new concrete walks and floors 
were laid; hundreds of cubic yards of top soil, fertilizer, and peat 
moss were used in landscaping; all exterior woodwork and two hundred rooms were painted. *Practically all the work on these improvements, exclusive of mechanical jobs, was done by Carnegie students. Ralph Moyer, an engineering undergraduate, supervised the work.
Other improvements include the installation of metallurgical laboratories in Engineering Hall; the 
laying of steam lines in the College of Industries to correct a condition which prevented satisfactory heating in that building; the paint
ing of Carnegie Inn and the Commons; and the erection of an ash 
tunnel from the power plant boiler room.
President Baker has directed the planting of climbing roses to improve spots on the Campus. The planting will be completed sometime in October.
Parade Will 
Begin Plebe 
Regulations
Weekly Trial Planned 
for Plebes Who Fail 
to Obey Rules
Enforcement of Plebe regula
tions begin today with the annual 
Plebe parade and will extend until the Thanksgiving vacation. Since the committees have shorten
ed the period of regulations this year, they urge strict enforcement.Plebe trials will be held once a week in all four colleges in order to punish those freshmen who have 
failed to live up to the regulations.Each college has separate rules for freshmen. Standard regulations for men are: (1) Freshmenmust wear black ties and black cotton socks exclusively. (2) Freshmen must not wear any hat 
while in the buildings, but shall al* ways wear one when outside. (3) Freshmen must not smoke on the campus except in the club rooms.(4) No freshman shall wear, raise, or attempt to raise a moustache.(5) Freshmen shall wear the Regulation Plebe Cap at all times on week days except when attending Campus social functions in the evening. (6) F'reshmen must wear a coat at all times and keep 
it buttoned. The regulations for women are: (1) All freshmen
must wear the Regulation Arm Band; they are permitted to wear only the following pieces of jewelry: 
one necessary pin, a watch, and a fraternity pin. In Margaret Morrison, all freshmen must use the right-hand stairway and bulletin 
board, attend all school assemblies,(Continued on Page Two)
k^eyM-^MB fnII^N 
YyM unM-n! r-nPP
All freshmen interested in be
coming Tartan reporters should report at the Tartan office on Thursday, September 29 at 4:30 
p. m. This is in accordance with the announcement made 
yesterday at the Pi Delta Epsi
lon and Alpha Chi Alpha publications meeting for freshmen. 
All those who report will under* go several weeks of training. 
Freshmen having classes until 5:30 can report at that time. As staff positions are awarded on a 
competitive basis, it is important that the new reporters attend these instruction sessions.Business staff candidates 
should report, Wednesday, September 28, in the Tartan office.
A silver activities key is given for two year's work and a gold one for four. Senior positions on the staff are salaried, and everyone has a chance for advancement.
Registrar Sees Little 
Change in Day School 
Enrollment for Fall
First Football 
DancePlanned 
For Saturday
Co-Captains Will Speak; 
Admission Price is 
Reduced to $1
The flrst'fooball dance of the sea
son will be held .next Saturday 
evening in Thistle Hall after< the 
Genev-Carnegie game, from 9 to
12 o'clock, with Will Ryshanek and 
his National Broadcasting Chain 
Orchestra furnishing the music. 
This dance is the first of a series 
of informal dances which will be 
held after all of the football games 
this year. The admission price to 
the first dance has been reduced to 
$1.00 a couple from the former 
price of $1.25. Tickets of admis
sion may be purchased only at the 
door.
As has been the custom in the 
past, all members of the football squad will be admitted gratis. Present plans call for the introduction 
of Co-captains Sample and Kavel from the platform during the even
ing. Members of the coaching staff and Buddy Overend, graduate manager of athletics, have been 
invited to be present, and invita
tions have been sent to members of the Geneva squad as well as to 
members of the Geneva student body who might be in town after the game.
This first football dance offers the Plebe the opportunity to attend 
one of Carnegies traditional football dancs and gives him the chance to further acquaint himself with the social life of the campus.
Guild Plans Drive 
Beginning Oct. 4
The annual Carnegie Tech Guild membership drive will be conducted October 4, 5 and 6. The Guild is a philanthropic organization composed of girls from Margaret Morrison and Fine Arts College. The charitable activities of the Guild are wide in scope and have included furnishing a room in Kingsley House, a settlement house, establishing a milk and ice fund, aiding destitute families, and providing toys for poor children at Christmas time.The Guild appeals to the student body for financial aid at only one specific' time during the year. With the purchase of a tag for twenty-five cents during the drive one becomes a member of the organization and is entitled to participate in all its activities for a 
year. Miss Dorothy Schultz, president of the Guild, will acquaint the freshmen with the purpose of the society when he speaks at the assembly on October 4.
Big Sisters to Hold 
Tea for Plebe Girls
Freshman women who havent received communications from their Big Sisters are advised to get in touch with Mary Townsend, Vice President of the Y. W. C. A. and Chairman of the Big and Little Sister Movement. Either post a note on the Senior bulletin board in Margaret Morrison or see her personally.The annual Big and Little Sister Tea will be held Wednesday, October 5, from four to six in Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall.
MUSIC MAKER
WILL RYSHANEK
Will Ryshanek, who will direct 
his KDKA Orchestra at the first football Dance of the year. For the past summer his orchestra has played engagements at Kennywood Park and many country clubs in the Pittsburgh district.
MuralDesign
Will Be Hung 
In Club Room
Work of Charles Dietz, 
Art Student, Given 
to Associations
By ELIZABETH PRELLER
 A mural painting, Tho Charwomans Dream, which is the work and gift of CharloB Lo Moyne Dietz will soon be hung in tho Women's Club Room .in tho Gymnasium.
The design took first place in a competitive problem for tho sophomore class conducted last spring by Professor Alexander J. Kosteilow, Associate Professor of Painting and Decoration. Doan Green desired to place an appropriate decoration in the club room which would serve as an inspiration and a harmonizing spot of color. It was at her suggestion that the competition was conducted.Painted in brilliant, woll-blendod colors, the mural pictures a charwoman, the symbol of woman's former role in life, dreaming of a new freedom. These hopes become alive before her eyes as woman today takes her place in the field of music, religion, medicine, athletics, and teaching.Mr. Dietz, who contributed his time and talent during the summer months, is a junior in the Department of Painting and Decorating. His home is. in Zanesville, Ohio.The picture which formerly hung in the Womens Club Room was painted by Professor Wilfred Readio, chairman of the Department of Painting and Decoration, and was loaned by him for use in the. club room.
Mens Glee Club to 
Try Freshmen Soon
The Mens Glee Club extends an invitation to freshmen to try out for membership at the meeting scheduled for Sunday afternoon, October 2, at 3 oclock in Room 150 Arts Building. Anyone else interested in music is asked to be present, because the June graduation made many vacancies to be filled.
Puppet Inaugurates New Features; 
Will Present Series of Broadcasts
Will Incorporate Work of 
Well-Known Humorists 
and Cartoonists
Inaugurating a policy which Is to bring new and original features to its pages, the first issue of tho Pup
pet, dedicated to the freshman and featuring the nomination of Eddie Cantor for President of the United States, appeared Friday.A subscription to Puppet will sell for 85 cents, the lowest yearly rate ever offered. Single copies 
will be ten cents.As outlined by William Lazarus, Editor-in-Chief, each issue of the Puppet will feature some national artist or humorist. Some of the 
foremost syndicate artists in the country will contribute and per
mission has been granted to reprint articles of student interest 
from some of the outstanding magazines of tho country.Old features including.The Sage of Skibo, Greek and Greekess Gossip, Speak Easy, Sportograms, A la Mode, Rime or Worse, and About the Town, 
have been retained.The next Issue, that of October 25, will be tho Military Ball Number. This will mark the first time 
that the Puppet has devoted an issue to this first formal dance of tho 
year. The feature of this issue will be an article by one of Judge's 
humorists.The All-Carnegie Number of November 22 will bring a feature by Western Union, the nature of 
which will remain undivulged until 
publication.The Last Word Number of December 13 will offer a reprint of a feature from "Vanity Fair of last February. Entitled "Ordeal by 
Cheque, the article shows the life (Continued on Page Two)
Freshmau Registration 
Slightly Under That 
of Last Year
550 PLEBES ENTER; 
SCHOOL AIDS MANY
College of Fine Arts Shows 
Gain Over Last Years 
Freshman Class
BY JACQUE M1NNOTTE
That there will be little chango 
in the total enrollment in day 
classes at Carnegie for tho now 
semester was the prediction of 
Alan Bright, Registrar, Saturday 
as the registration of freshmen, 
drew to a close.
Freshman enrollment on Friday and Saturday of last week totaled 550 while for a comparable poriod last fall the count was 609.
Using these figures and answers to inquiries addressed to upperclasmen during tho summer as a basis, Mr. Bright estimated that any reduction in enrollment would not exceed ten per cent of last years figuro.
Not until tho registration of upperclassmen, in progress yostorday and today, is completed will 
figuros be available with which to chock the total enrollment of previous years.The relatively small, decroaso in enrollment when a largor cut might reasonably be oxpoctod, may he attributed to a combination of circumstances.In many cases sacrifices nro being mado in a determined effort to return to school. The administration lias oxtondod aid to many students through the Office of tho Deans of Men and of Women.Among tho froshmon are many who would In normal timos havo gone out of town to school but aro forced to attend a Pittsburgh Institution this year.Last week's enrollment of 550 froshmon was divided as follows: Collegos of Engineering and Industries, 248; College of FI no Arts, 155; and M. M. C. C., 147.For a comparable period last year tho totals were: Collegos oHEngineering and Industries, 32(5; College of Flno Arts, .133; and M. M. C. C 150.Registration of lato arrivals and of those completing financial ar
rangements in xpecteti to sw< H the freshman total for each col* lego.- Already tho freshman enrollment In tho College of Flno Arts has passed last years figuro and that in M. M. ,C. C. is virtually the same.
Enrollment last fall > was tho greatest in Carnegies history when 2,521 students registered for day classes. The last mid-year registration, that of February of! this year, at which the enrollment totaled 2,32G was a new high for mid-year figures.
Tea Dance Given 
ily Mortar Board
Mortar Board, national senior honorary for women, will hold tho first afternoon dance of the year in Thistle Hall tomorrow from 4:00 until G : 00 oclock. Bill LeRoy and his Town Tattlers, a popular tenpiece orchestra, have been engaged. Freshmen are especially invited to attend the dance, and the usual large turnout of upper classmen is expected. Admission is thirty-five cents a person.Mortar Board chooses its members from the junior women in Margaret Morrison and Fine Arts Colleges on Qualification Day in recognition of character, scholarship, and participation in student activities.
NOTICE, TARTAN REPORTER!
Members of the Tartan staff will please call at tho office for assign
ments tomorrow between 12:30 and 1:30.
COMING EVENTS
TuesdayStudent Council meeting, at 7:30 p. m., Y" clubroora.
WednesdayMortar Board tea dance at Thistle Hall from 4:00 to 0:00.
ThursdayCombined cabinet luncheon, 12:30, at Commons Annex.Reception to students at tho following churchos in tho evening:Saint Andrews Lutheran, at Center and Morewood avenue.First English Lutheran, at Sixth avenue and Grant street.First Baptist, at Bayard street and Bellefield avenue.
FridayM. M. C. C. Annual Benefit dance, In Thistle Hall.
SaturdayFootball Dance, Thistle 
HalL

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1932
Faculty Members
Give Radio TalksTennis Team 
Wins Five of 
Eight Meets
Carnegie Co-Captains Who Will Face GenevaCarnegie Athletic 
RosterTHE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
A new series of radio talks over Station KDKA will be inaugurated 
on Tuesday, September 27, at 7:15 p. m. by Dr. Baker who will speak 
on Pittsburgh as an Educational Center.
Pla3rgoing in Europe will be the subject of Prof. Elmer Kenyons 
address to be given at 5:00 p. m. on Friday, September 30.
Prof, James W. Howell, assistant Professor of Economics, will discuss The Five Day Week on Monday, October 3, at the same time.
Dr. Lester M. Jones who is Director of the College of Engineering will speak on October 7.
FOOTBALL
Co-Captains ..............George. Kavel
William Sample Varsity Manager. .Harold Cadmus Freshman Manager..Ned StirlingAdvisory Coach.........W. P. SteffenHead Coach..............R. N. Waddell
Line Conch..........Dr. W. L. MarksFreshman Coach.M. B. Armentrout BASKETBALL
Co-Captains ....................R. R. SmithJames Fergus Varsity Manager.. .Rich. Kamerer 
Freshman Manager.M. Brandyw"Varsity Coach.........Max Hanm
Freshman Coach..James Leone TRACK
Captain ..............................Tom Coult
Varsity Manager. .Joseph Brohs Freshman Manager. .Louis WetCoach ..........................Guy I-IalferCROSS COUNTRY
Captain ....................G. W. Ramse;Varsity Manager-----To be name
Freshman Manager... .Win. SmitCoach ..........................Guy I-IalfertSWIMMING
Captain ......................N. W. FrankVarsity Manager..C. E. ApplegattFreshman Manager___Law. 1Coach ..................A. E. Reis'TENNIS
Captain ......................RufusVarsity Manager___Law. I
Freshman Manager. MiltonVarsity Coach..............B. P. HooBOXING
Captain ........................Henry Cai
Varsity Manager.Harold Pressme Freshman Manager...L. Squitee: 
Coach ...........................Ernie Sest
Tartan Net Team  
Excellent Record 
For Six YearsBY JOE BRONSON
Tennis has been one of the most 
successful sports in which Carnegie 
has been fortunate enough to en
gage. Since 1927 the team has al
ways finished with more victories 
than defeats, a feat which cannot 
be equaled by many Carnegie 
iteamsIn 1927 the team finished with 
the same number of victories as 
defeats, having won five out of a 
tough 10-match schedule, including 
Pitt, Penn State, Notre Dame and N. Y. U. The following year the 
team won six out of eight games, losing only to Pitt and Princeton. In 1928 the only defeat suffered out of six matches was at the hands of the mighty Pitt team. In 1930, 
after getting off to a nice start, Coach Hoover's protegees went into a slump, but finished the season with four victories against four defeats. Last year the team defeated Duqnesne and W. & J. twice, and the Alumni but lost to Pitt, Georgetown and Hopkins.
HELLO! SPORT FANS. With apologies to Bill Farren we are back for another year and ready to try to give you the dope and side chatter on the various Athletic teams. The material in this first issue was gotten out primarily for the benefit of the Plebes, but we are ready to wager that some of the more dignified upper classmen will find some of the summaries interesting. The purpose of the summaries of the various sports was to acquaint the Plebes with just what Carnegie has or has not done in the Athletic World. It takes the Freshmen quite a while to find out by word of mouth just what has happened in the past, even then it Is often incorrect. So here it is, save it and use it for future reference. We did not have room in this issue for all of the summaries; so the rest will appear next week.
Jones Appointed to 
Post Left by Mott
Continued From Page 1--------------
The administration has also appointed Le Roy Merrill, former 
head of the department of Public Speaking in Lawrenceville College, as assistant professor of Diction.
Lieutenant A. H. Burton, of the Engineers Corps of the United States Army, has been assigned to 
duty at the Carnegie Institute of: Technology. He will be a member of the department of military science and tactics, instructing R. O. T. C. students.
Lieutenant Burton is a graduate of West Point and of the Engineers School at Fort Humphreys, Va.
In the department of Printing, Mr. Charles W. Pitkin, a graduate of Carnegie, class of 1931, has been appointed instructor in typography, while Mr. Harry B. Moore, who has just completed a year of graduate study at Yale, has been added to the Department of Commercial Engineering.
WITH THE OPENING GAME ONLY FIVE DAYS AWAY Bob Waddell is pushing the Tartan gridders forward with all possible haste in hope of having them in tip-top shape for the coming struggle with Geneva on Saturday afternoon. For the past three weeks the team has been in training and already they seem to be in better shape than they were last year for the opener with W. & J. But there are still some rough edges to be smoothed down before Coaches Steffen and Waddell care to let them encounter the highly touted Geneva outfit which already has 
one victory under its belt.
THE PROSPECTS FOR A SUCCESSFUL SEASON are much better than they were last year despite the loss by graduation of several outstanding stars. Murray Armentrout, last year's captain and stellar halfback; Don Fletcher, giant tackle, and Alex Ducanis, center, are th regulars who donned the Cap and Gown, but there are more than enough men to take their place and their loss will be hardly felt. That important position of center will be the most difficult to fill because there is not an experienced man to take the place of Ducanis. But to compensate for the departure of these men is the return to the team of three men not seen on. last years squad with the addition of two new faces and several promising candidates from the Plebe team. Bunny Burzio and Harry McCurdy have returned to school after a years absence, and Dutch Croft is back on the team after being ineligible during the past season. Tom Coulter, track captain and star hurdler 
and end runner, is making a bid for the team as is Jim Fergus, cocaptain of the basket ball squad. Both Fergus and Coulter are out for backfield posts while Croft is a tackle, Burzio a guard and McCurdy a quarterback, Ray Tesser, fullback of the Plebe team two years, has 
returned to school and Is being groomed for an end post.
AN UP-TO-DATE EATING PLACE FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Jacks Coffee Shoppe and Restaurant
TABLE, BOOTH AND COUNTER SERVICE ' SUPERFINE COOKING 
TELEPHONE: SCHENLEY 9531 
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
QUALITY FOOD COOKED AND SERVED AS YOU LIICE IT
i teBane dMsureiyEvgbJWoCE
ro mgnV h -  ^ WlLURM SAMPLEGUtfeD, WM ...  -
______Tartan veterans who will lead opening bame against Geneva in the Stadium on Saturday.
Plaid Opens Football Season 
With Geneva on Saturday
YOU CAN GET SOME GOOD USED TEXT-BOOKS 
Slide Rules Drawing Seta
Winston Dictionaries 
TO % OFF 
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE 
G. A. PILLSBURY, Manager in the Skibo Inn, 5100 Woodlawn Ave.
STUDENTS SUPPLIES 
FORBES STREET, Between Oakland Avenue and Boquet St. 
10% Discount to Students
FOR ONCE A CARNEGIE TEAM WILL HAVE CAPABLE SUBSTITUTES to fill the regulars shoes. As a matter of fact no one knows who is a regular and who is a substitute as the competition is so keen for the first eleven positions. There are at least two men fighting it out for each position, a fact which is helping the morale of the team. The only two men who seem to be sure of their places are Co-captains 
Kavel and Sample.Bevevino, McCurdy and Deugar are fighting it out for quarterback, and at the present moment Bevevino seems to have the call. Spisak, Sayles, Coulter, Fergus, Carlson,, are all trying for the position opposite Kavel, but no one seems to have a distinct advantage although Coulter and Spisak looked best in scrimmage on Friday. Tesser, Stewart, Burns, Goodridge and Ostrosky are the ends and so far Tesser and Stewart seem to be leading the field although Ostrosky is not at his best because he has been suffering from a leg injury. Foresman, Plummer, Nutter, Dolloway and Croft are battling for the two tackle posts. Foresman is suffering from an ankle injury, and it is doubtful whether he will be ready for the opening game. Burzio, Heinzer, Siegal and Sample are the guards, while Jones, Moscrip and Dreshar are struggling for the center assignment. Mihm seems to have the call over 
OToole for the fullback post.
First Football Meeting 
Between Schools 
Since 1922
Dn!-^Nc o^! YyM 
JyBS-Sy! yP oqMB
JI^s^B uy k^eyMYyM Yyy-snII u^nv
GENEVA FEATURES 
PASSING ATTACK
All Freshmen and Sophomores 
who are interested in going out 
for Manager of the Cross coun
try team should report to Bill Smith at the Cross Country room in the Gym. This is an excellent chance for men to 
earn their letter, which is given to all senior managers. The work Is not hard and one can gain valuable experience.
Freshmen who are interested 
in trying out for the Plebe Foot
ball team should report to the 
Field House any afternoon after 
4 oclock. This year there is a 
scarcity of material, which 
means that there is an ex
cellent chance for new men to 
make the squad.
Grahame and Aultman Star 
in Opening Win Over 
Davis-Elkins
Geneva College, conqueror of 
Carnegie in basketball and track, 
comes to town Saturday to try her 
luck against the Tartans in foot
ball. Ten years ago, the SkiboS handed the Covenanters a 27-6 lacing and since then the two schools have' not met on the barred field. Howard I-Iarpster, former AllAmerican Plaid quarterback, is starting his third season as head coach at Geneva and would like nothing better than to trounce his Alma Mater.' Harpy has had two exceptionally successful seasons at Beaver Falls and although Carnegie will be the favorites in the coming game, it will be far from a set-up.. The Geneva attack is built around the Grahame and Aultman passing combination. Art Grahame, a kicker and passer patterned after his famous coach, is directing the team for his second year, while Cliff Aultman, one of the most versatile athletes ever to matriculate at Geneva, is winding up his colTege career at his usual left end post.Captain Sam Cooper and Dick McKee are veteran tackles hue 1-Iarpster must depend upon Gramely, Rodemoyer and Howell to plug the center of the line left vacant by graduation. Robbins and Troiano^ first string halfbacks from last year and Nolle, playing his first year as a varsity fullback, complete the present starting backfield.
Genevas greatest weakness is lack of reserves as there are few dependable men to replace the regulars. However, the Gold and White boasts an impressive 21-0 victory over the Davis-Elkins Scarlet Hurricane in their inaugural which is conclusive proof that as long as that Geneva first team is in the game, Carnegie will not have things quite so easy.
WHEN IT RAINS IT POURS. So the old adage runs, and it certainly is true of the Plaid punters. Since Harpster graduated the Tartans 
have been badly in need of . a reliable punter, and the material has been terribly scarce In the past few years, but this season Bob Waddell has no less than four men who can punt that old pigskin with the best of them. McCurdy, Tesser, Mihm and Croft can all heave a hefty boot when the occasion demands. McCurdy is the most accurate but Mihm and Tesser get more distance which is the important thing on some occasions. Joe Mihm, the former Schenley High School star, is bringing back memories of Big John Karcis. Not only has he been punting well but his line plunging leaves little to be desired and once more Carnegie fans are going to see a big burly back weighing well over two hundred pounds go crashing through the line with the power 
of a locomotive.
Skibos Make 
Best Record 
In Football
Tech Nators 
Show Great 
Improvement
Coacli Reisdorphs Team 
Scores Five Wins 
in Six Meets
imeWHEN HOWARD HARPSTER brings his Covenanters down from Beavor Falls there are going to be plenty of fireworks goingvia the Air Routein the Stadium on Saturday arternoon. In Art Grahame and Cliff Aultman, Harpster possesses a passing combination surpassed by none in the country. Not only is Grahame a clever passer, but he is a good punter and a clever field general. As a matter of fact we are almost ready to rate him as good as his coach. Harpys team pulled a big surprise by trimming Dnvis-Elltlns last Friday night 21-6. This victory was accomplished, mostly through the air and old Harpy has some trick plays up his sleeve which he will uncover over in the Stadium shortly after the game gets under way. Harpster was around school on Saturday, and from what lie says I believe he thinks he is going to slip one over on Wally and Bob. Although Geneva may score several times by passing, I dont believe they are strong enough to withstand the Tartans running attack and I think that that will be the margin of victory. Any way you figure though the game is no setup and it. is going to be a thrilling afternoon from anyones point of view. CO-CAPTAIN GEORGE SLAP EM DOWN KAVEL seems headed for a banner year. Even this early in the year he has exhibited that form which has made him the most consistent ground gainer on the Tartan team for the past two years. Against the Plebes, Gergie Porgie was well nigh uncatchable for he went through the line for consistently long gains. He seems to be in excellent condition and is just raving to get at that Geneva outfit. ________________________________
Grill to Reduce 
T!CS Prices This Year
Until 1932 the Tartan swimmers 
were somewhat inferior as a team 
to 'those of other college institu
tions. For years there was a scar
city of material and a lack of 
interest in the sport generally. 
Despite this condition swimming 
was becoming nationally recog
nized and Carnegie was able to 
hold its own place with increasing 
competition. In 1930 a promising 
pick-up was witnessed, when Tar
tan victories nearly balanced the 
defeats. The following year was 
a repetition of former years, for 
much greater competition was met 
with than that of 1930. Finally, 
in this past year, Carnegie was given its strongest swimming material, and this, coupled with greater enthusiasm and co-operation and a program of stiffer coaching and training, was developed into an exceptionally good team, which saw but one defeat 
throughout the entire season, and placed fourth in the Eastern Collegiate Swiming Association meet. It is too early to speculate on the 1933 possibilities, for the group swimming material is yet untested, 
but the new schedule, which is being worked on at present, indicates 
fair chances for a good season.
The 1923 football season marked 
the entrance of Carnegie Tech into 
ithe select group of major football 
teams. In that year the Tartans, 
led by the famous Jimmy Robert
son, won their first victory over 
Pitt. The following year Dike 
Beedes 60-yard run gave Carnegie another victory over the Panthers 
and definite football recognition.In 25 the team slipped somewhat but came back strong the 
next fall with seven wins as against only two losses. It was this year that Carnegie defeated a powerful Pitt team and 'then catapulted into national prominence by smothering the hitherto unbeaten Notre Dame aggregation in that memorial 19-0 contest.The 27 season was another lean 
one for the Tartans, but in the fall of 192S Wally Steffen produced his 
greatest team. Carnegie humbled W. & J., Pitt, Georgetown and 
Notre Dame in succession and were headed for the national champion
ship when they stumbled against New York U., 27-13, in one of the 
most bitterly contested games ever staged at Forbes Field.The 1930 Plaid team showed 
great potentialities in the 31-0 lacing which they handed Georgia Tech, but the following week Notre Dame stung the Scotch 19-6 
and before the team found itself N. Y. U. and Pitt had taken Carnegies measure.Last year, with a green team, Carnegie was forced to accept de
feat five times, although in only one game was the margin of defeat greater than a touchdown. In no other season had Lady Luck 
forsaken the Plaid as she did in the one past.
ho sings it better 
than the Boswells?
PREVIOUS RECORD WITH GENEVA
Geneva1907
19101911
19131914
19211922
The Carnegie Grill is cooperat
ing with the rest of the school in an effort to make this year as inexpensive as possible for the students. Prices have been reduced, and where no actual change in price has been made, the quantity of food has been increased.
The fifty-cent special includes 
much more than it did last year. Beverage, butter and rolls are given with all twenty-five and thirty-cent breakfasts. Toast is five cents, and there is variety in the ten-cent sandwich list. The service will be quicker than before.
Aside from the changes in prices and quantity of food, Mrs. Lois Blackloch, the manager of the Grill, has planned other innovations which promise to make the Grill a center of entertainment this winter. After the supper hour card 
tables will be placed in front of the fireplace. Rag rugs, candles, 
and Windsor chairs will add to the clioerful atmosphere of the Grill. A log fire will be kept burning all the time. Mrs. Blackloclc is pro
viding cards and score pads, and toasting forks for marshmallows.
Every Monday and Thursday... Connie, 
Vet and Martha, in that bubbling Boswell 
rhythm ... as irresistible as 01 Man 
Rivuh himself!
And while you listen, light up a Chest
erfield. Enjoy their fresh fragrance, their 
mildness and better taste.
Theyre mild . . . and yet they Satisfy.
Chesterfield Radio ProgramMondays, Wednes
days, Fridays10 p. m., Tuesdays, Thursdays, 
Saturdays9 p.m., E. S, T., Columbia Network.
VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 1Geneva.................StadiumOct. SW. Reserve.... ClevelandOct. 15W. & J..................Stadium
Oct. 22Notre Dame..South Bend Oct. 19Temple (night)... .Pliila.Nov. 12Xavier.............CincinnatiNov. 19Pitt......................StadiumNov. 24New Yorlc U___New YorlcDec. 3Georgetown.. .Washington
Puppet Inaugurates 
Many New Features
Continued From Page 1 ---------------
history of a man through pictuures 
of checks used during his lifetime.
Later issues will contain features by Ripley, and Ham Fisher, creator of Joe Paloolca.
Thursday night at 7:45 Puppet 
inaugurates a series of weekly broadcasts over WWSW. The programs will feature sketches and 
musical offerings presented by students of Carnegie.
Student Council Sets 
Budget Requirements
Continued From Fngo 1 '
suited regarding this.10. Doan Green should bo consulted before chaporones, invitations, and programs are selected.11. Permission must bo obtained for the use of Thistlo Hall.12. Chairmen of dance committees must make a report to the. Council within one week after the event.
FOOTBALL
W.CHEERLEADER CALL
All freshmen and sophomores who wish to try out for cheerleader ing report to the gym tomorrow, Wednesday, September 28, at 4:30 or after your last class. Previous experience is not necessary.
An Asset to College 
Students
College men and women, ac
customed to regulating their 
own expenditures and planning 
their own budgets are receiving 
valuable training in handling 
money that will prove benefi
cial in afterlife. In this con
nection, a bank account is an 
important asset to people of 
college age. The Mellon Na
tional Bank is always glad to 
receive the accounts of college 
students.
AVENUE ii a.in. to 1 p.imi809 Liberty Avenue Evenings 40c 
Art Knows No Class Nor Creed
Freshman Regulations 
Start With Parade
 Continued From Page 3
and cannot use the Margaret Morri
son smoking lounge. The College of Fine Arts freshmen must use the North and South entrances only, wear green smocks and sit in 
front seats at all assemblies of the college. Freshmen also cannot use 
the Main Entrance of the Administration Building.
Total
Colleges in the West are accepting produce and cattle in payment of tuition.Wonder if they will feed the spinach to the football players?
Detroit automobile manufactur
ers have announced the new collegiate car, painted in the colors 
of any college.Can you picture a caravan of plaid automobiles?
WEEK BEG MON., SEPT. 2fi, 11 n.m. 
Russia in its formation and today.
THE CIGARETTE THAT'S MILDERUiary ot a 
Revolutionist
A U. S. S. R. Talkie 
with English Titles.
Jf six cows suffice for a years tuition and board, then I suppose 
all that we night' night students of Carnegie iVould have to bring in proportion, is a little lamb or at 
most a goat.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.
One college has a plan by which students would work the institu
tions farm and receive 15 credits toward graduation, plus 5135 to ap
ply on their college expenses.
THAT TASTES BETTER
C ameli trnnMKK u TsMby opwhvvp Co,

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 27. 19323
Patronize Carnegie Tartan AdvertisersNight Students 
To Register 
October 1-5-6
Gymnasium Will be Used 
Again For Registration 
In All Courses
Horses Still on Campus; 
Manson is Lone GuardFinancial Summary, 1931-32 
Night Student Council
Behold! Those gorgeous striped 
horses that have horn so many fra
ternity pledges into the realms of 
imaginative fancy, continue to 
grace our lovely campus.
There they graze in blissful con
tent, on the bleak concrete front
ing the Administration Building 
and Margaret Morrison College, 
with never a friend to stroke 
their splintery manes, save some 
lone inebriated Techlte -who sud
denly remembers an early ambition 
to fight Indians.
Should it be at all possible to 
develop affection ror ihese wooden equines, no one is more qualified to undertake the experiment than Mr. Manson the lone guard, who must surely see them even in his sleep. Wonder if he has ever felt the impulse to leap astride one of these frisky steeds with a feather 
in his hat, as he did in the good old days that he loves to speak about.If only these forlorn and inanimate creatures knew how crude and out of harmony with the surroundings they appeal*, and how. despite their permanent nature they impress one aa temporary fixtures, they would surely justify our contempt for them, and gallop off 
to the happy grazing grounds.
RECEIPTS
Balance from 1930-31 .............................................................................SHeld in Council fundaccount Night College of Industriesinitial donation to Kiltie Band for Blankets............................Activities Fees1930-31 and 1931-32 ..............................................Council Dances ........................................................................................Interest .......................................................................................................Night College of Engineering Banquet Ticket Returns................Miscellaneous Donation for 194G Endowment Fund....................
The Idle Night Student like Topsyjust grew. Who he is and where he came from is a jig saw puzzle, or a cross word puzzle. I am known to only one person here abouts and while that person is very generous with his time, information, etc., as in previous years, the identity of yours truly .will remain a secret. With a secrecy really fraternal, I have been approached to write for the Plaid page during the year and haying agreed, I will now commence my ramble. I have not had a great deal of experience in newspaper 
writing so if at any time my writing is not up to the standard set by my predecessors in this role, I ask your forebearance but I hasten to assure you that I will do my 
best to have something appear in each issue of the Tartan and thereby save a few gray hairs for our worthy editor.No, it is not time yet for registration, but its just around the corner, just time enough to drinlc a cup of coffee and cut yourself a piece of pie, for theres a rainbow in the sky even though the depression has been lurking in our midst. When the day comes we'll all be in the line, hook and sinker, 1.o sign on the dotted space anu hope that our arm will not play out before the yard-long form is completed.I have spent a year or two on the campus and in that time I have noticed upon returning in the fall each year there are changes. I am wondering what changes will be in order this year. A good change would be the erection of a garage for the machines which come nightly. Think what a relief that would be to those who drive. They could park in safety and not let the street cars have a monopoly on that concession in Pittsburgh. Maybe some of the buildings have been treated to "face lifting operations and more space provided for the registration of students. We will soon know what the changes are, if any.Hope all had a pleasant summer vacation. I know it is hard to put in a long summer without having some studying to doat least it is so for night students, that is, those who have attended a session or two; you sorta get in the habit, and a habit once formed is hard to overcome. Anyway, Ill be anxious to be back again on the campus and see all thats going on and write about it.
During the past two weeks the 
administration has mailed out the 
Permit to Register blanks to all 
the night students who attended 
classes last year. Accompanying 
the blank is a letter giving instruc
tions so that the congestion which 
is always unavoidable at this time 
will be reduced to a minimum.
The registration-period is spread 
over three nights and the students 
have been assigned to a particu
lar night. By coming out on that 
night you will aid materially in the 
registration procedure. Of course, 
it it is impossible to come out the 
night assigned students are per
mitted to register on either of the 
other two registration dates.
The various courses will have 
sections in the Mens Gymnasium 
as on urevious registration days so 
the thing to do upon coming out is to take your Permit to Register to the headof your department and have your schedule arranged and approved. After you have secured the approval you will take the registration record to the registration room where the fees will he collected and the registration procedure completed.The fee remains the same this year, ?5.00 per year for each weekly attendance hour, except for a few subjects which are listed in the Catalogue of Night Courses. 
When one considers the low cost charged for the night courses and the thoroughness of the courses offered it is not to be wondered at. 
that we always have a large enrollment.
The institution is prepared to handle a large enrollment thiy year. Several courses offered this year will not be offered next year and some will not be scheduled again for two years. So consult the catalogue and see if the subjects you are interested in are being offered and then come out and register.
DISBURSEMENTS
Handbooks ....................ActivitiesAll CollegesCouncil Dances ............Office Expenses ............Plaid1931-32 ..............Scholarships 1930-31 .. Thistle Expenses 1932 Insignia ...........................
Favorable Balance*
$4,369.50
?Includes cost of 1932 Thistle Spread. Payment withheld pending adjustment.Night College of Industries presented the Kiltie Band with six dozen blankets as regular permanent equipment. Blankets purchased from funds due this colleges allotment of activities fees and authorized in 1931.HENRY E. MAURO, Treasurer,Night Student Council.
nsignia Awards 
Are Presented to 
Night Students
Campus Barber Shopfor Tech students. Reliable workmanship. Agency for Laundry Full line of Haberdashery SEE MAX Woodlawn at Forbes
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT once again this gossip greets you, under new management, of course, but with the same motto as of yoreWith malice toward none and raspberries for all.THAT the above doesnt exclude anybody, not even the powers that be, were fearless by gum; hey, who moved that cuspidore.THAT even the government is looking for the elusive corner that the rest of us have been on the lookout for so long.THAT very soon the air around us will be hotter and dirtier than usual with all this campaign ballyhoo going on.
THAT this column promises to keep out of politics, so we wont give you our intimate opinion about the Great Straddler or his Forgotten Man opponent.THAT night registration will break all previous records this year, you figure it out.THAT the only idividual who hates to see night school start is Dad Manson. Aw thats all right Dad, we were only fooling.THAT we expect to see each and every one of you in the torture line on October 4, 5, or 6, and no fooling.THAT thats that, and Ill be seenya!
The annual presentation of the 
insignia award of the Night Student Council earned by night students 
during the past year took place at a dinner recently held at the Hotel 
Schenley.
The award is given annually to 
those night students whose points earned on activities are suffi
cient to secure the award. The 
night students who were given the award were:
J. C. Aird, Jr., H. C. Bartley, L. J. Becker, C. J. Biscup, C. A. Blochinger, C. E. Blochinger, A. W. 
Bluemle, W. J. Boehm, Jr., F. T. Boyd, E. M. Burkhart, T. J. Calnan, B. D. Cametti, F. Cassel, C. B. Cobun, M. E. Choen, M. A. Crawford, 
T. L. Dalton, E. M. Dittmer. G. J. Dugal, O. ElilerS, A. N. Evans, W. E. Faix, J. T. Ganserwicz, G. C. 
Garhart, C. R. Gilbert, Jr., J. W. Grant, W. Harris, W. E. Hauser,E. V. Herrmann, W. R. Hodder, M.B. I-Iudale. L. T. Huri, S. Hylces, D. J. Jones, S. H. Klingensmith, C. R. Kovach, E. M. Koch, F. A. Kolcun, W, C. Kraus, J. V. Kupchak, R. A. Lahr, R. W Lahr, A. J. Lois, A. W. 
Luck, N. Marchetti, H. E. Mauro, M. A. Mazzei, G. E. Miller. R. W. McCartney, J. P. McCluslcy, G. R. McCormack, E. E. McDonald, H. E. McGannon, N. G.- McKinnon, S. J. Nikhazy, R. E. Panton, W. E. Paolicelli, M. O. Peach, S. W. Phillippi,C. A. Pickett, W. Pugh, S. C. Regutti. K F. Roschy, J. H. Sansonetti, 
C. E. Schlossnagel, H. A. Schwartz,F. F. Shoemaker, Jr., J. F. Simpson, C. iL. Sitzenlcopf, J. J. Slagle, R. L. Slocum, C. T. Smith, J. P. 
Stevens, H.' B. Stone, J. A. Suelzer, S. K. Szuch, J. Thomas, Jr.. W. A. Watson, W. B. Wendt, T. J. Werner, M. B. Wingert, E. F. White, J. L. Wylie.
The activities program sponsored by the Night Student Council is an extensive one and it offers many opportunities to the students to in
dulge, in some social enjovmont while attending Carnegie. Participation in these activities more than repays the student in the 
amount of real enjoyment secured.
Students who are interested in working on activities should 
send in their name and address to the Night Student Council, Box 137, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa., giving the college they are registered in and the course.
YOU CAN GET SOME GOOD USED TEXT-BOOKS 
Slide Rules Drawing: SclsWinston Dictionaries 
& TO % OFF 
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE 
G. A. PILLSBURY, Manager 
in the Skibo Inn, 5100 Woodlawn Avo.
 ROOMS 
$IO to $15 MONTHLY
See my nice clean furnished rooms in modern brick home before you rent.
Single rooms, $15 up; double, $10 up per person monthly. Hot water heat.
Can please professors or students. Walk to 442 Amberson Avenue, or phone Mayflower 4251, and I will call for you.
f JENKINS ARCADI 
IFITTSBURGI
Pen Repairing
SMALL GIFTS
your
tors (Mary Williams). 110G Confer Avo.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin President: R. O. Perrino, 1133 EastPleasant Street.
Secrotary-Treasurer: Howard Dowliower,28-10 Wcsb Highland Boulevard.
New York City 
Secretary: Mrs. O. A. Dickman. 190-14Ascan Avo., Forest' Hills, Long Island.NorUiem New Jersed 
President: L. E. Krebs, 2-17 North OratonParkway, East Orange, N. J.
Secretary: J. II. Kingborn, 151 Sip Avenue, Jersey City. N. J.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Mens Clan President: Paul V. Shaver, 1210 Pennsylvania Building.Vice President: Herman Neiman.
Secrotary-Treasurer: Raymond Gill, Mer-mont Inn, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Women's Clan President: Mrs. Robert E. Lees (Mary
Ride), 8 Schiller Avenue, Narberth. Pa. Secrotary-Treasurer: R. Leah Rotlmus,910 Pino Street.
Schenectady, New York President: J. M. Sampson, <15 Bedford Rd. 
Secretary: B. R. Hill, 219 AlexanderAvenue, Scotia, New York.
Southern California President: J. R. Brandln; 308 Transportation Building, Los Angelos. 
Secrot'ary-Troasurer: Miss Betty Finkel-hor, 200 North Oakhurst Drive, Beverly Hills.Tulsa, Oklahoma President: Walter D. Smith, 2005 SaintXanthus Street./'
Vice President: II. D. Skyrm, 330 Phil-cado Building.
Washington, D. C.
President: W. D. Hall, 2301 CathedralPlace N. W., United Typothetae of America, Tower Building.
Secretary: Miss Annable Lee Glenn, 1-101 
Fairmont Street.Youngstown, Ohio President: B. F. Anthony, 56. Shady SideDrive.Vice President: J. D. Evans, 375 ParkAvenue.
Secrotary-Treasurer: William H. Hoobler, 20-1 Roirent Stroet.
ALUMNI NEWS
With the advent of the 1932-33 school season, the Carnegie Tar
tan wishes to greet members of the Alumni.
The Tartan will greatly appreciate the cooperation of any alumnus 
who will send in news announce
ments of any type, clippings, original articles, suggestions for improving the Alumni Page or notes about any desired subject.
Such communications should be sent to Miss AndreAvs, Alumni Office, or Alumni Editor, Carnegie Tartan.
Carnegie College Alumnae are as follows:Jane Caldwell Harrold, 12, presi
dent and Federation Director; Eleanor Risemeyer, 24, first vice pres
ident; Barbara White, 26, second vice president; Bernice Kruger Thorpe, 19, secretary-treasurer; 
Genevie Cusliwa, 12, federation director; Margaret Harrison Napier. 14, ex-officio; Mary Craig
head Britton, chairman of membership; Irene Quinn Harneclc, 30, 
representative of '30; Ruth Lieberman, 31, representative of '31; 
Nancy Sloan, 32, representative of '32; Edna C. Smith, 09, federation 
representative-at-large; Mary Hall, 30, chairman of scholarship; Lenore Read, 17, chairman of auditing; 
Ludmilla Allen, 29, chairman of visitation.
JOHNSTOWN CLAN
The recent Johnstown Carnegie Clan meeting resulted in the election of the following officers: presdent, D, C. Crum. oL Conemaugh; ice president, Walter Sontum; lid secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Dale 
cMasters. A committee was also ppointed to arrange for the. next .eeting of the group.
ALUMNI OFFICERS
Akron, Ohio President: C. Hixenbaugh, 860 Packard Drive.
Secrotary-Treasurer: T. B. Gotham, Mohawk Rubber Company.
Atlanta, Georgia President: John Nation, care J. M. Tull
Rubber & Supply Co.. 285 Marietta St. Secrotary-Treasurer: A. F. Eichron, careJohns-Manville Company.
Buffalo, New York 
President: Arthur L. Beck, 1061 Elli-cott Square Building.
Vice President: Herbert Tumin.
Secretary: H. S. Beers, 502 Michigan Ave. 
Treasurer: Josephine Soisson, 39 IrvingPlace.
Canton, Ohio 
President: Harry B. Lilley, 817 FifthStreet, N. W.
Secretary-Treasurer: Mark S. Downes, 611 Twenty-second Street, N. W.Chicago, Illinois 
President: Homer C. Porter, 809 Michigan Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.Cincinnati, Ohio President: W. M. Ball, Jr., 3328 AveryLane.
Vice President: Donald Du Vail, 701
Fourth National Bank Building. Secretary-Treasurer: M. C. Schwerha,care Worthington Pump & Machinery 
Co., 1504 First National Bank Bldg.Cleveland, Ohio 
Mens Clan President: E. A. Johnson, 1310 Hanna
Building.Vice President: Raymond J. Weppner,
Electric Refrigeration Dept., General Electric Company, Hanna Building. 
Secrotary-Treasurer: Richard H. Cutting,2915 National City Bank Building.Womens Clan President1: Margaret Fogle, Suite 5, 2130Surrey Road, Cleveland Heights. 
Secrotary-Treasurer: Irene La Londe, 26939 Bruce Road, Bay Village.Columbus, Ohio 
President: N. J. Engle, 266 S. High St.Secretary-Treasurer: J. R. Paloma, Dept, 
of Ronianco Languages, Ohio State Uni
versity.Connecticut President: W. F. Gallagher, 74 Orange
Street, Hartford, Connecticut.
Vico President: Arthur Nelson, 85 RowoAvonue, Hartford.SecroUiry-Trensurer: Samuel Lebon, 48
Village Street, Hartford.Detroit, Michigan 
President: W. Ray Williams, 5590 Lins-dalo Avenue.
Secrotary-Treasurer: Norris Tilbrook, 10-137 General Motors Building.
Erie, Pennsylvania President: W. Spangonberg, 337 West
Eleventh Street.Vico President: Maitland Smith, 230 East Sixth Street,
Secretary: Michael Sanera, 944 West
Eleventh Street.Treasurer: E. J. Hedlund, 453 WestThirty-first Street.
Golden Gate (California) Secretary: Mrs. R. L. Wharton (Elizabeth 
Doaring), 3902 Clinton Avenue, Rich
mond, California.Harrisburg, Pennsylvania President: Henry Y. Shaub, 1126 Wheat
land Avenue. Lancaster, Pa.Johnstown, Pennsylvania President: D. G. Crum, 114 Oak Street,Conemaugh, Pennsylvania.
Vice President: Walter Sontum, 66 DuPont Place.
Secrotarv-Treasurer: Mrs. Dale McMasCINCINNATI CLAN
rhe last meeting of the Cincini Clan was held at the home of . and Mrs. William Ball, Jr. The 
arty visited the Cincinnati Obervatory where they viewed sevral planets and attended a lecture n the fundamentals of astronomy.The clan is planning that a large lumber of its group will be presnt at the Carnegie game with Wavier on November 12.
If Youre a Poor Dancer
We Will Teach You in 3 Private LessonsOnly $5 
Expert Instruction.
Jacques eltl of Daitcimg
Forbes and Craig Streets Mayflower 7891
Beginners ClassesMonday and Friday Evenings, 8:30 ocock 
Social DancesWith OrchestraThursday and Saturday Evenings, 8:30 oclock 
IN THE HEART OF TECH AND PITT
ATT! LA"THE 
SCOURGE OF GOD
**Natxirc in the Raiuas portrayed 
by the great painter, Harvey Dnnn 
. . . inspired by the barbaric cruelty 
of Asia's most dreaded plunderer... 
"the grass could not grow where his 
horse had passed ...433-453 A. D.
DAYTON CLAN
A number of Dayton alumni are planning to attend the CarnegieXavier game on November 12. Alumni interested in going to the game with the Dayton group are advised to get in touch with John Kelly, E. 25. Mr. Kelly may be 
ached at the Delco Products Co., irst street, Dayton.THE OAKLAND 
BANKand raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes
these fine tobaccos, after 
proper aging and mellowing, 
are then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purifying 
process, described by the 
words"Its toasted. Thats 
why folks in every city, town 
and hamlet say that Luckies 
are such mild cigarettes.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The Mens Clan of Philadelphia ild the first formal meeting of ,e year on 'September 19.The following officers were unantously elected for 1932-33: presint, Paul V. Shaver; vice presi-' ent, Herman Neiman; secretaryeasurer, Ray Gill.With a thought of present eco.om ic conditions, the Advisory Joard presented the new social calendar to the group. This board 
ncludes: L. E. Exline, E 09; T.\ Shea, E. 16, R. M Word, E. 22; I. M. Britton, I 24.
A great many clan members are jlanning to attend the Carnegiej'emple night football game on Ocpber 29 at Philadelphia.
OFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH . Vice Pres.
R. J. MILLER................Vice Pres.
C. W. EI-INI------Asst. Vice Pres.
F W. COTTON. .Asst. Vice Pres.
O. C YOUNG........Asst. Treas.
ADAM ROSCOE ........Asst. Sec.
They are not present in Luckies 
. . . the mildest cigarette 
you ever smoked
.VTE buy the finest, the very 
W finest tobaccos in all the 
worldbut that does not 
explain why folks every
where regard Lucky Strike as 
the mildest cigarette. The fact 
is, we never overlook the 
truth that "Nature in the 
Raw is Seldom Mild  so
PeoplesPittsburgh
ADVISORY BOARD
C. B. Aylesworth 
James B. Clark 
John Dimling
J. Rogers Flannery 
L. H. Getlioefer 
C. H. Kerr
J. O. Miller
R. J. Miller i 
John G. Pew 
A. B. Sheets
Oakland Branch
Forbes and MeyranCLEVELAND CLAN
Members of the Cleveland Clan d other alumni of that vicinity nl be interested in a broadcast to e given over Station WJAY on ctober 7 at 4 oclock. This broadist, the tentative date of which i the day before the CarnegieTest ern Reserve game, will include ings and a speech by the presivnt of the Alumni Association.
umnengknq^ yP vSIN LgkS^B
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he 
build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. "RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?
RGARET MORRISON ALUMNI
'he officers and executive comse of the Margaret Morrison

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1932
ie (fanterie Partati
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
After Office Houra Call 
_ Schcnlcy 9130 Sporta Editoi
____Hazel 9'173 Plaid Editor.
_______Schcnlcy 9580_______Schcnlcy 2389
___________ _______ _____________ JULIUS HALPERN
NEWS EDITOR______________~____________ _____ _______ELIZABETH PRELLER
PLAID EDITOR-----------____________ ________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Copy Editor: Christine Lolghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Alllaon Exchange Editors: Marjorie Dougherty
Harry Hower Ruth PhillipsAssignment Editor: Anthony Carnvale
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cncchione, Loretta Conlin, Melvin Frank, Alice Henzl, John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jacques 
Minnotte.
ATHLETIC STAFF: GlorinvKloos, Womens Editor; Ned F. Stirling, James Halferty,
PLAID STAFF: Janie* II. Siinsonctti, News Editor; Frank Cassel, A. N. Evens, H. 
E. McGannon.
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; Morton Giu-mise, Loren Kannenberg, John McGrane, William McKenna, William 
Sauvary.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William FinfrlauB, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro
senberg, Albert Pryce-JoncB. Abo Leipzig.
REPORTERS: J. Clinton Carr, Jane Livingston, Herbert Schwarz, Constantine MandroHS, Margaret Griffin, Veronica Kloos, Anna Ladd, Virginia Cooper, Thelma Shelley, Gertrude Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter PauluB, Ruth Cohen, Harold Baer, Pauline Bevnn, Jannetto Black, Marian MalakofI, Evelyn Dalzell, Gwen 
Haddock, Ruth GustafBon, Jane Miller.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
Presidents Welcome
I am happy to have the opportunity afforded me by The 
Carnegie Tartan to bid you a hearty welcome to the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. I hope you are going to have a most 
satisfactory year in the realization of your hopes and ambi
tions. I am sure you will find the members of the faculty 
friendly and anxious to help you with any difficulties which 
may arise. Do not hesitate to ask their counsel. I shall be glad 
to see you at any time you may desire to discuss your problems 
with me.
Will you not do what you can to make this year one of 
worthwhile achievement at Carnegie?
Thomas S. Baker, President.
Welcome Plebes
The Tartan enters into the spirit of Freshman Week by ex
tending a welcome to members of the incoming class. It wishes 
them success during what should be one of the most interesting 
and enjoyable periods of their lives.
For the past few days much advice has been heaped upon 
the newcomer in an effort to acclimate him to his new environ
ment. This counseling and admonition ought not be taken with 
a light air, for during the next few years members of the Class 
of 1936 will form habits and attitudes which will probably re
main with them for the rest of their lives. It cannot be em
phasized too often the importance of getting down to business 
immediately.
A well-rounded student will not be a grind; rather, he will, 
apportion his time to include a beneficial recreational life, he 
will be interested in extra-curriculum activities as a means of 
sampling a life of responsibility and applying classroom theories, 
lie will enter enthusiastically into class demonstrations and help 
to perpetuate freshman regulations and Carnegie traditions, he 
will l)e alert and have an open mind, he will be cognizant of 
what is happening in the world in which he expects to earn his 
living, lie will endeavor to gain lasting friends among students 
and members of the faculty, and administration, lie will find a 
place for religion in his life to enable him to understand the 
religious side of the social and moral problems of the world, 
and lie will provide for xjlenty of exercise in his program.
All of the opportunities for freshmen to realize these ideals 
are offered at Carnegie. Freshmen will find Carnegies social 
life most enjoyable and they are offered a number of outlets for 
their talents through extra-curriculum activities. Good luck, 
P lobes!
Dr. Carl Wallace Petty
This summer one of the student bodys staunchest friends 
unexpectedly -passed away. Dr. Carl Wallace Petty, minister 
for the past twelve years at the First Baptist Church of Pitts
burgh, is dead. Virile, dynamic, a forceful speaker, a pleasing 
personalitywords cannot adequately describe this man and his 
very active life. He was one of the most popular speakers to 
visit the campus year after year. During his residence in 
Pittsburgh he spoke at a number of Y. M. C. A. freshman ban
quets, chapels, and other campus affairs. The Carnegie students 
have lost a real friend.
Metallurgical 
Lab Will be 
Ready Soon
Laboratories Open to Re
search and Graduate 
Degree Workers
The ^new metallurgical research laboratory, consisting of seven different laboratories and occupying a large portion of the lower floor in the northwest portion of Engineering Hall, has been under construction during the summer. It is expected to be completed with all equipment by the middle of October, according to Dr. R. F. Mehl, the new director of this laboratory.
Much new apparatus, including the most modern X-ray equipment, has been added to the old apparatus from the former metallurgical laboratory which was situated on the 
fourth floor of Engineering Hall. The laboratories will be used at present for only research workers; later, however, graduate degree workers will also have use of them. Research will be started by building up the X-ray work first. In general, theoretical metallurgy will be the main research, centering, iai-gely on the study of the mechanism of reactions in the solid state of the general type which occur in duralumin, and the alloy structure largely from the crystallographic angle. The iron-manganese work which has been done before here will be continued for one more yeai\
Dr. Mehl, formerly of the American Rolling Mill Company and the Naval Research Laboratories in Washington, D. C., is to be assisted by Dr. Charles S. Barrett, also of the Naval Research Laboratories, and by Dr. Dana W. Smith from Yale University. Dr. Mehls secretary is Miss Frances Schneider, a graduate of last year from the Margaret Morrison Secretarial Department. '
Drama Dept. Alters 
Plans for Training
Continued From Page 1
in the companies of such stars as Mary Mannering, Otis Skinner, and 
Captain Allan Pollock.
The increased demand for teach
ers of dramatics caused the department to effect a dual affiliation with the Department of Education at Harrisburg and the Superintendent of Pittsburgh Schools. This new 
arrangement will enable students majoring in educational dramatics 
to secure the teachers certificate necessary to teach in high schools.
The first of the upperclass pro
ductions to be scheduled for this 
year is Ibsens Pillars of Society." It will open October 28 under the direction of Professor Hickman, Type-casting will be eliminated in 
these productions as far as possible in order to afford the opportunity to develop versatility in acting.
In addition to the Little Theater 
productions, the Studio Theater will play a prominent part in the de
partment program this year.
Exclusive of the freshman performances given there, sixty one-act 
playseach one this year to be produced under the supervision of a faculty memberwill be presented in fifteen scheduled programs,, the first to be given October 21. These Studio Matinees are given not only as a part of the work of the department, but especially for the bene
fit of the students in other departments. No tickets are required for admission.
A new stage-floor is being laid 
in the Little Theater in the College of Fine Arts under Mr. Orbins direction. He has also constructed for the department a new dressin: room with accommodations for 20 persons, and a new sewing room 
which is more convenient to the costume room.
It is estimated that 35,000 per
sons saw the productions of the Department of Drama last year.
Tartan's New Appearance
Again, the Tartan begins a new year with a radical typo
graphical change over issues of past years. An entirely differ
ent type face is being used for heads and text matter through
out the paper in an effort to make it more attractive and inter
esting and easier to read. Believing that the Tartan as a stu
dent publication representing one of the foremost technical in
stitutions in the country should symbolize the most recently de
veloped and accepted typographical standards for newspaper 
make-up, the staff has endeavored to follow the dictates of good 
taste in planning the typography of this years issues.
Carnegie Day
In order that there will be no confusion, it is announced 
by the administration-that the cancellation of the Founders 
Day celebration this year by the Board of Directors of the 
Carnegie Institute in no way affects the usual Carnegie Day 
celebration held at Carnegie. The event will be held on No
vember 22, and at that time fitting services will be held to com
memorate the immortal memory of Andrew Carnegie, founder 
of the Carnegie Institute and the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology,
One of the most welcome of campus improvements is the in
stallation of an additional heat pipe 111 the College of Industries. 
Colonel Fairly and his assistants arc to be congratulated for 
the many improvements in the mens dormitories and other 
buildings. The employment of student labor wherever it was 
possible is also commendable.
With only three home football games this year, the student 
body will have but as many chances to demonstrate its school 
spirit by co-operating with the cheerleaders in the formation of 
letters and entering enthusiastically into the cheering. A team 
fights the hardest when it knows the student body is behind it.
Founders Day 
Is Abolished
The much looked forward to Freshman recep
tion was a great success for the upperclassmen. 
Of course Joe Lentz and Ira Kuhn were there as members of the receiving line and Bobby Smith got by on his good looks, with the rest of the fellows it was different, they had to work their way in. The first attempt was frustrated when a burglar alarm brought the night watchman to the scene of the crime before the boys had m a naged t o crawl t h r ough the window and into thehall. Soon after this unsuccessful attempt the freshmans name cards started to flutter out windows and pass through cracks in the bolted doors. Protected by these badges more than one sophomore sauntered past the eagle eyed Mr. Senkus. Juniors and seniors had less luck and many of them were still cluttering up the checking tables When the evenings dancing came to a close. Who crashed the gate? Well a complete list would just about fill the the whole page and might be misinterpreted as the activities keys list for the past year so well just mention a few of the boys that walked right in. There was Tom Dana, Jess Price, Johnny Lowes, Pal Miller, Hughy Fischer, Bill Shann, W. Griswold Agnew, Francis Mertz, Halden Beers, Frank Ivulas, Jimmy Kelly and we mustnt forget Lee Nutter, he was in and out a couple of times. Then there was a prominent alumnus who brought a Soph Dramat rather than trust to luck. The biggest disappointment of the evening fell to Paul Pheneger when the charming smile of a freshman girl failed to work on hardhearted OKeefe" Senkus and the fair young damsel was forced to enter alone. Of course the Druids and Cwens were there as official aids. Dick Jones seemed to have succeeded about as well as any of the fellows (at least no one else went for a forty-five minute walk) while Veronica Kloos maintained the family average making what wed call the prize catch of the evening. George Goodridge was conscientious enough to leave before eleven or maybe he was afraid hed trip on a tent rope. Well we might as well
print it now as ever, George went out of circulation during the summer.For the poor unfortunates that were unable for one reason or another to attend the Freshman reception Mortar Board is holding a tea dance tomorrow afternoon. Having sold tickets in advance to every good looking freshman boy or girl and having guaranteed that each dance will be a tag dance if you want to meet the class of 36 heres your chance. And did you hear about the freshman that asked the ticket salesmen what these motor boats were that were holding the dance and why?Nobody knows just why but these same Mortar Boards had a cottage at Conneaut, Ohio, toward the end of August and did they have a good time. The one unexplained incident of their visit is how they happened to pick the one night Jimmy Fergus was at Geneva to spend the night over there listening to Doc" Patou. 
Youre right boys and girls if Jimmys knee comes around fast enough hell be there tomorrow. And if you find yourself dancing with a Mortar Board make her tell you what her new nickname is, they all have em.# * * * *
Who said Shultz is dead? Whoever it was didnt see the Registration pictures in the PostGazette (free ad, maybe theyll say something 
about our football team). Then there was thelittle girl
it in the post office. High pressure salesmanship left its mark where it will be seen for some time to come unless the freshmen expect their head size to dwindle after Freshman Week passes.* * * * *
It's rumored that the Puppet wont be able to keep going through the first semester. Sad but true, they've lost their only original joke you know the one: Mrs. Finkelpearl. What, a dime? Havent you anything smaller? Yes sir, the new Woodlawh pharmacy was held up and the loss was $300.
Thistle Staff 
For This Year 
Is Announced
Student Council at Last 
Meeting Announces 
Business Staff
Lack of Funds Causes 
Discontinuance Of 
Annual Call Day
Last week the board of trustees of Carnegie Institute voted to discontinue the observance of the Founders Day celebration until financial conditions improve. The elimination of the Founders Day exercises is a part of the program of economy which caused the discontinuance of the annual International Exhibition of Painting. The program was originally scheduled for October 13.Founders Day is usually observed each fall in commemoratiou of the birthday of Andrew Carnegie and the anniversary of the 
opening of the college. It has been the custom for President Baker to present the fraternity, sorority, and dormitory scholarship cups, and to announce the scholastic standing of the various groups on the campus at a student assembly in Carnegie Music Hall.Each year a well-known speaker is invited to address the assembly. 
Last November, Governor Ritchie of Maryland, spoke to the students, and in the past, many national and international figures have been inThe business staff of the Thistle, 
the Carnegie annual publication, 
was announced at the last meet
ing of the Student Council. Ray
mond E. Treasure will serve as 
business manager, and Edmund J. 
McCormick will be the new adver
tising manager. Both Mr. Treasure 
and Mr. McCormick have served 
for two years on the business staff, 
the former as a salesman and the 
latter as assistant to the advertis
ing manager.
The Student Council at this 
meeting also approved several ad
ditional appointments to the edi
torial stair, announcing Charles 
Dietz as art editor, Marjory Glassburn as assistant art editor, and 
Bradley Edelbelt as designer.Raymond Treasure, the new business manager, is a junior in the Department of Commercial Engineering, a member of the Theta Xi social fraternity, and an assistant basketball manager.Edmund McCormick, the new advertising manager, is a junior in the Department of Printing, a member of the Theta Xi social fraternity, president of Delta Skull, junior class honorary, vice president of the junior class in the College of Industries, junior editor of the Tartan, and assistant track manager.
Charles Dietz and Marjory Glassburn, the new art editors, are members of the junior class in the Department oL Painting and Decorating.
Mr. Edelbert, the new designer, is a junior in the Department of Printing and Publishing, a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and a member of the Carnegie basketball team.
Other staff members of the 1933 Thistle, previously announced in the Tartan are: Edward Rhodes,editor-in-chief* Loretta Conlin, associate editor; Edwin Trapp, senior editor; Warren Ailes, fraternity editor; Alice Henzi, feature editor; 
John Lowes, athletic editor; Regis Joyce, photographic editor; and Louis Squitieri, copy editor.
Homer Sterling, instructor in layout and design in the Department of Printing, will serve as the faculty adviser to the new Thistle staff.
vited here on Carnegie Day.The trustees of Carnegie Institute expressed the hope that business conditions will permit the continuance of both the Founders Day celebration and the International Art Exhibition next year.
YOU CAN GET SOME GOOD USED TEXT-BOOKS
Slide Rules Drawing Sets
Winston Dictionaries 
'A TO % OFF 
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE 
G. A. PILLSBURY, Manager in the Skibo Inn, 5100 Woodlawn Ave.
Assembly and Chapel 
Schedule For Year
The schedule of Chapel Exercises and Assemblies for the first semester 1932-1933 will be as follows, the former taking place regularly at 12:30, the latter at 11:30. If any one of the 
events is not held, .the period becomes a free one.
Sept. 24Assembly for fresh
menPresidents Welcome. 
Oct. 4Student Council General Assembly.
Oct. 11Chapel.
Oct. 18  Separate College AssembliesEngineering and and Industries Freshman Assembly.
Nov. 1Student Council General Assembly.
Nov. 8Chapel.Nov. 15Separate College AssembliesEngineering and 
Industries Freshman Assembly.Nov. 22Carnegie Day Exer
cises (10:30 a. m.)Nov. 29Chapel.
Dec. 6Student Council Gener* 
al Assembly.Dec. 13Chapel  Chxistmas Carol Service.Jan. 10'Student Council General Assembly.Jan. 17Chapel.
Jan. 24Separate College AssembliesEngineering and 
Industries Freshman Assembly.
Cheering Section to
Form Paper Designs
Plebes Given 
Pamphlets on 
Fraternities
Advantages of Social 
Organizations Are 
Clearly Stated
This year the cheerleaders are 
attempting to make a special paper 
design in the student sections. They 
ask the co-operation of all 
the students and any others who 
may sit in those sections. In Sec
tion 21 there will-be a white C on 
a plaid background, the plaid to 
be made with sheets of solid col
ors. In Section 20 the opponents 
letters will be formed.
The cheerleaders . request that 
the people who sit in Section 21 
take the TOP SHEET OF PAPER, 
regardless of color. This instruc
tion is very important, otherwise 
the design will not be distinct.
The Interfraternity Council, in 
pursuance of its policy of improv
ing rushing conditions, has published a pamphlet entitled Facts About Our Fraternities which has been distributed during Freshman registration, and should be read by those who contemplate joining a social fraternity.
After a brief commentary on the classification of fraternities, the benefits accruing from membership in a social fraternity are discussed, and an effort is made to dispel the belief current outside of collegiate circles that they are for pleasure only.
Citing the fact that they are Constructive in scholastic rating, it mentions that they develop a spirit of co-operation and brotherhood, and that whether or not they are expensive depends upon the Individual. The home atmosphere of the houses together with the guidance of upper classmen in school work, makes these organizations not only desirable but helpful.
It continues, As a committee we do not contend these organizations are a necessity, but the advantages of such are conducive to success . . . Fraternities have the major part of our activities within their control and help in every way to forward, in letter and spirit, the ideals for which Carnegie stands.
It contains a particular warning against higli-pressure rushing, with its intangible promises and practices which cannot be penalized by the Council, but which are unethical and give false impressions to the rushee. - Much time and thought is being given to the modifying and changing of rules in order to protect the rushee, but he must always use care in his estimation.Rushing season, the period during which fraternity men are permitted to contact Freshmen, will be announced in the Tartan, together with the rules governing it. Until that time they should not be seen together.
Five Alumni 
Are Awarded 
Fellowships
Four Men Remain at 
CarnegieOne Goes 
to Michigan
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
DONT WRITE YOUR NAME hundreds of times on reports, registrations, home work, etc. A handy RUBBER STAMP (conforming to official recommendations, page 8, Freshman Week Program) costs only
GET YOUR STAMP at
JAS. H. MATTHEWS & CO. G. A. PILLSBURY
3942 Forbes St. (Oakland) or Sklbo Inn50c
Yea Tech ...
Welcome to the New
Woodlawn Pharmacy
Corner Woodlawn and Forbes Street 
LOUIS GORDON, Pharmacist and Prop.
WE HANDLE A COMPLETE LINE OF
Drugs School Supplies
Sundries Cosmetics
Stationery Magazines'
Cigarets Candy, Cigars
Our modern and sanitary luncheonette is 
under personal supervision. Our food dain
tily prepared and delicious, will appeal to 
the most discriminating.
FREE DELIVERYCall Schenley 6300
We Have a Circulating Library
Four students, all graduates of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, have been awarded annual fellowships sponsored by the mining advisory board to Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Arthur C. Barnhart, of Monongahela, Pa., who graduated last year in mining engineering with highest 
honoi-s, has been selected to do research on "The Grindability of Coal. He will attempt to find the relationship between the grindability of coal and its physical and chemical characteristics, and thus determine the adaptability of various coals for pulverizing purposes. He will study under Professor H. J. Sloman.
F. R. Miilhiser, 240G Meadowcroft avenue, graduate in chemical engineering in June, will devote his time to a study of cresylic acids which are used in the manufacture of artificial resins. He will study under Guido H. Stenipel, of the Carnegie chemistry department.Harry D. Kolb, 570 Greendale avenue. Edgewood, a graduate in
aeronautical engineering last Juno at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, has been awarded a fellowship by Phi Kappa, national social fraternity. He will do graduate work in aeronautical engineering at the University of Michigan.
Kolb was editor of the Carnegie Tartan last year and was prominent in college activities. The Phi Kappa awards are being made this year for the first tune. Four grants were made.
The other two students are Henry L. Bunker, 750 Lenox avenue, Wilkinsburg, graduate in mechanical engineering in 1930, and Herbert S. Strickler, 157 Race street, graduate in chemical engineering. They win work jointly on the Determination of the Effect of Mixing of Coals on the Ash Fusion Temperature of the Mixture. Bunker will work on temperature determinations while Strickler will make the chemical study of the coals and ash.
WE PAY
Cash Prices
... for ...
Used Books
STUDENT BOOK 
EXCHANGE
G. A. Pillsbury, Mgr. 
5100 Woodlawn Ave.
7
tabacc
... tobaccos made for 
cigarettes and pipes; granu
lated tobaccos. But there 
was plenty of room for a to
bacco made solely for pipes.
If you look, you will find 
that a great many tobacco 
packages say "for pipe and 
cigarettes. But the Granger 
package says:
GRANGER ROUGH CUT 
Pip e Tobacco
Granger is made by Well
mans Method and cut right 
for pipesrough cut. Burns 
slower and cooler. Just try it!
YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODUCT
FORBES NATIONAL BANK
Your Home Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND - - - PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MELLON_______________GEORGE II. CAMPBELL_____________
HARRY S. BROWN__________________MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK__________
J. NEVIN GARBER__________________
_________President
____Vice Preuldcnt____________Canhier
AHiiliitunt Ca liier 
._AimiLant Cashier
BOARD OF 
JOHN G. BOWMAN Chancellor University o Pittsburgh 
THOMAS S. BAKER President Carnegie Institute of Technology 
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys GEORGE H. CAMPBELL 
Vice President JOHN F. CASEY 
President John F. Casey Company A. REX FLINN President Booth & Flinn Company 
HOWARD M. JOHNSON Auditor Litronier Valley Railroad 
ELMER E. COLE President National Union Fire Insurance Company
DIRECTORS
RICHARD K. MELLON 
President 
Director Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorney# 
HERBERT A. MAY 
Vico President Union Drawn Steel Company 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE 
-Vice President Wm. B. Scaifo & SonB Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
