The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 17 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, MAY 30, 1944
Dean Murphy Leaves 
Carnegie For Duration
Last Saturday, Carnegie lost one 
of its most liked faculty members 
when Dean Murphy left for an un
disclosed destination. His new work 
will be of a secret nature pertaining 
to the war effort.
Before coming to Carnegie, Mr. 
Murphy attended Penn State 
where he was awarded his B. A. in 
1938. At Penn State he was presi
dent of Delta Tau Delta. After 
graduation he was made field sec
retary for Delta Tau Delta, a position which he held until coming to 
Tech in October, 1940.
He started at Carnegie as Coun
selor on Financial Aid to Students, 
soon becoming Assistant Dean of 
Men and Faculty Adviser in charge 
of all student activities. As head of 
student activities, he worked with 
the students very closely.
Mr. Murphy has been given a 
leave of absence for the duration, 
so his loss will be but temporary. 
It is hoped that the time will soon 
come when he may again resume 
his place at Tech.
Prof. Gregg Speaks At 
i. Chamber of Com.Pgh.
Profs. McCullough, OBrien and Hotchkiss 
Retire From Carnegie Faculty This Week
Another vital part of the Carnegie campus as it was known before the war will suffer the inevitable 
change in a few short weeks when three of the ablest and most revered members of the faculty of the Car
negie Institute of Technology will retire from active participation in campus life on the first of June. The three 
professors soon to leave us are Professor F. M. McCullough, Head of the Civil Engineering Department; Dr. 
Willard E. Hotchkiss, Head of t,he Department of Social Relations; and Dr. J. Vick OBrien, Head of the De
partment of Music. These men who represent the fulfillment of the highest achievement in their respective 
fields of pedagogy, have spent a combined total of 72 years in the service of the students of Carnegie Tech. The 
great stores of knowledge which these men have accumulated throughout their respective lifetimes and 
have imparted to their many students, have long been a source of intellect ual growth on Skibos campus. Their 
absence will be severely felt by all who knew them and their personal abilities and characters will be sadly 
missed.
Prof. F. M. McCullough
Professor F. M. McCullough, who 
received his Bachelor of Science 
Degree in Engineering from the 
University of Wisconsin in 1903, 
has been a member of the Carnegie 
faculty since 1910. Before coming 
to Pittsburgh, he served on the En
gineering faculty of the University
Professor Kobert Gregg, head of 
the History Department at Carne
gie Tech, was recently elected Pres
ident of the Pittsburgh Foreign Pol
icy Association for 1944-45. He 
spoke on the recent conference in 
New York of the Inter-American 
Development Commission before 
the Board of Directors of the Pitts
burgh Chamber of Commerce on 
May 16 and on the same subject be
fore a luncheon of the Foreign Trade 
Council of the Chamber on May 22 
in the Hotel Roosevelt.
Professor Greggs recent honor is 
not his only one. He is affiliated 
with many societies and honoraries, 
and is adviser to the recently-gone 
national sorority, Delta Gamma, 
and faculty advisor to Alpha Phi 
Omega, honorary scouting society.
Dr. Mehl Back From Brazil
Dr. Robert E. Mehl returned re
cently to Carnegie after a lecture 
tour of several months in Brazil. In 
the next issue the Tartan will pub
lish a complete account of his visit 
to Brazil.
Prof. J. Vick OBrien
Since childhood, J. Vick OBrien, 
conductor of Carnegie Techs sym
phony orchestra, has been deeply 
interested in music. His first musi
cal studies were made in his home 
town, our own Pittsburgh, where he 
studied under Adolph Foerster, 
Luigi von Kunitz, and Joseph Otten. Between 1902 and 1912 he lived 
and studied in Berlin. In 1912 he 
was appointed head of the depart
ment of music at CIT, a position 
which he still holds. Since his 
arrival the Carnegie Tech orches
tra has grown from literally nothing 
to an organization which merits 
far-spread fame.
,D.r, OBrien has been honored by 
an honorary degree of Doctor of 
Music by Duquesne University, and 
many of his compositions have reof Wisconsin. After holding posi
tions as Instructor, Assistant Pro
fessor, and Associate Professor here, 
he was appointed Professor and 
Head of the Civil Engineering De
partment in 1918 and has held this 
position since that time. At Car
negie, Professor McCullough is also 
Head of the Curriculum Committee 
of the College of Engineering. He 
has also published many technical 
articles.
Household Ec. Head 
On Leave of Absence
Professor Harriet F. Glendon, 
Head of the Department of House
hold Economics, has just been 
granted a years leave of absence 
starting July, 1944, and extending 
through July 1, 1945. This leave will 
be spent in California where Miss 
Glendon will recuperate from ill 
health.
Miss Glendon received her diplo
ma from Stout Institute in 1911, her 
Ph. B. from the University of Chi
cago in 1919 and her M. A. from Co
lumbia University in 1922.
Her teaching career has been 
varied, including positions at State 
Normal College in Duluth, Minne
sota and the Lewis Institute in Chi
cago. . ____
Prof. Willard E. Hotchkiss
Dr. W. E. Hotchkiss has been with 
Carnegie Tech since 1938 when he 
was appointed Maurice Falk profes
sor and put in charge of the organ
ization and administration of CITs 
Social Studies program (later 
known as Social Relations). He is a 
graduate of Cornell University from 
which he received his Ph. B., M. A., 
and Ph. D.. degrees. The Doctor 
taught at the University of Penn
sylvania, Northwestern University, 
the University of Minnesota, Stan* 
ford University, and was president 
of Armour Institute of Technology 
before coming to Carnegie. In 
many of thes colleges he was 
active in organizing new courses 
of study, such as: the School
of Commerce at Northwestern Uni
versity, the School of Business at 
the University of Minnesota, the 
School of Business at Stanford 
University and the educational and 
financial reorganization of Armour 
Institute of Technology.
Throughout his long and varied
ceived high commendation from the 
musical world. Some of his better 
known works are: a symphony titled 
Duskward; incidental and ballet 
music for Chaplet of Pan; three 
operas, Ye Olde Virginia, Hour 
Before Dawn, and Roses of Marcatel; and about fifty songs.
Memorial Day Ceremony
Today at noon, in front of the 
Fine Arts building and near the 
flagpole, a rifle squad from Com
pany A, 3302d SU, ASTU, will 
fire three volleys and a bugler will 
sound Taps in reverent memory of 
all members of the armed forces of 
the United States who have died or 
have been killed in the service of 
their country.
An invitation is extended to all 
faculty members and the student 
body to be present at the time men
tioned, and to pause for a moment 
of silence.
career, the Doctor has taken a more 
than active part in many non-aca
demic activities. A list of only a 
few of the more important of these 
would include his service as VicePresident of the American Econom
ics Association, Labor Adviser on 
Pacific Northwest Logging Camps 
for the War Department, Executive 
Director of the National Industrial 
Federation of Clothing Manufactur
ers, Consultant to the Board of Ar
bitration of the San Francisco 
Building Trades, arbitrator of the 
Philadelphia Mill Work Industry, 
and others too numerous to mention.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 30, 1944
CditosuL AnmaUcUsi
On Stupidity
In this weeks informal meeting of the Army-Civilian Activities Coun
cil the Tartan received the benevolent bit of advice that it should present 
to the students matters of national and international importance as well as 
campus activities.
Probably the members of A. C. A. C. have followed the example set 
by the majority of the Carnegie Tech students, and have never bothered 
to glance at the editorial page of the Tartan. Had they done so, they would 
know that for the past six months we have tried to do just what they now 
advise us to begin. Ever since December 1943, we have published a week
ly column, which discussed, poorly perhaps, national and international 
events of importance to Carnegie Tech students. This semester this series 
has the added feature of bringing to the students articles written by mem
bers of the faculty. In addition to this, current events were mentioned in 
many editorial and other articles.
We are not griping at the unnecessary advice we received from 
A. C. A. C. As a matter of fact, we are more than glad xo see that the 
members of the Council have finally awakened to the fact that no Amer
ican, student or statesman, can afford to ignore national and international 
events which do not lie in his immediate sphere of interest. But we 
do accuse the students of Carnegie Tech of willfully adopting that brand 
of disinterest and ignorance which has caused this war, and which, if un
checked, will tolerate the advent of another, more devastating and more 
dangerous than even this one.
In his article On Postwar Planning Dr. Chworowsky said last week: 
If they (the students) think they can be spectators in other walks of life 
today, they would realize that they are preparing themselves to be specta
tors in the future. And if they do not like the spectacle they then behold, 
what then?
We would like to state this even more strongly. If the American col
lege students would be the exceptions to the ruleif, in other words, 
everyone else in this country would take an active interest in political af
fairsthe only consequence of the students ignorance would be the loss of 
their privilege of determining their own government, which, to put it 
bluntly, would serve them right. But, unfortunately, their disinterest is 
the rule, not the exception, "and that fact aggravates the situation tre
mendously. For as the intellectual minority they should act as a spark
plug for their less fortunate countrymen, and if they fail in this duty by 
continuing to ignore current events, then unchecked stupidity and apathy 
will allow more struggle, more hatred, and more wars.___________________
Letters To The Editor
Now that the new Allied drive in Italy has gained some miles of ter
ritory, and now that the land invasion of Europe is being hastened, if it has 
not already come, we have rising among us once again that good, old 
American feeling: Well, I guess its about over now. Because, for the 
first time in two and a half years, the United States has been able to think 
of attempting an operation on the scale of those proceeding and impending, 
it has been taken for granted by the American public that the war is prac
tically over. They give Germany two months, Japan six.
They feel this way, not because they thought for any length of time 
about all phases of the situation, nor because they have access to informa
tion excluded even from the highest Allied military commanders, but, 
rather, simply because they want to. It is too disturbing to them to con
sider the war extending beyond this year; for them to think of it continu
ing for two, three, even four years, is incompatible with the lackadaisical, 
shallow manner in which they look upon life and all its beauty and ugli
ness.
The American public has long had the reputation of evaluating every
thing in terms of personal physical pleasure. The people of this country 
have been held by too many of the peoples of the earth as incapable of 
real feeling, of deep thought, of character strong enough to withstand and 
accept logically any serious national mishap. German propagandists have 
seized upon this argument as the greatest and most effective method of 
proving the inability of the United States to win this war. America is 
soft, they shout, she is built upon baseball, and soda pop, and hot dogs, 
and cheap sensual pleasures which denote an inferior mentality. America 
cannot think; her people are too self-centered.
Very evidently this is so. Those arguments were taken as no more than 
poor propaganda, and by wishful thinking were relegated to the pigeon
hole. But, now, within the past three months, with the talk of invasion
Continued on Page 4
Opinion* expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MATFLOWIB tIN PHONE SCHENLEY 4M1
MtMHIinO PON NATIONAL ADVERTISING WYNational Advertising Service, Inc. ce Hours Cal, CUUf Publishers Rrpreitnutht  Editor-in-Chief ...........................EM. 9424
410 madiwn am. yo*k. n. Ta Business Manager......................SC. 8951
ftlKIMB * IMTM  LO* AMIU(  SAB PMKIICO
KottrW V N**a(HlM miner In ike PitUbink Post Office under the Act of March S, 1S79.Psbllikel weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor...................................................................................Pfc. James W. Vaughan
Business Manager ........................................................................................... Marty Zanger
Managing Editors........................................................................Adeline Herlick, Al Perry
The Outlook .  .
On Post-War Germany
By Dr. Stuart W. Chapman
The evident intention of the mili
tary authorities to win victory in 
the European phase of the war be-, 
fore going all-out in the Pacific* 
makes the problem of the treatment 
of Germany one of the most imme
diate in any program of postwar 
planning. No attempt will be made 
in this article to predict the policy 
which will be followed by the 
United Nations, particularly the 
United States, Great Britain, and 
Russia, as regards Germany. Nor 
will any detailed plan of action be 
suggested.
Let us rather examine some basic 
assumptions upon which a policy 
might be built. First, as long as we 
retain a system of national states 
it will be impossible to eliminate 
Germany entirely from internation
al politics. Second, in any policy 
which we adopt we must retain a 
large degree of flexibility. Third, 
the carrying out of an effective 
policy will involve close collabora
tion of the major powers and must 
give security to the smaller powers. 
Fourth, we must decide upon the 
things necessary to a lasting peace 
which can be based ultimately not 
upon force, but upon consent. Fifth, 
having decided upon these things, 
we must willingly adopt the requi
site means, even though they might 
involve a revision of some of our 
ideas and traditional practices.
Let us consider a little more fully 
these assumptions. First, Germany 
cannot be eliminated as a force in 
international affairs as long as we 
retain a national state system. Ger
many is too large to be wiped out, 
even if our philosophy of life per
mitted us to do such a thing. Po
litically the nation could be broken 
up. Indeed there are rumors from 
time to time that such a program 
has been decided upon by the Big 
Three. But the breaking up of Ger
many as a means of preventing 
wars in the future is a recognition 
that ardent nationalism is danger
ous and that perhaps other nations 
also should be broken up. Are we 
willing to carry out the further 
measures implied in the political 
disruption of Germany? If we are 
not, there is little hope that Ger
many can be dismembered without 
laying the foundations of another 
movement to reunite all Germans, 
since Germans, whether Nazi or 
not, could hardly tolerate such dis
criminatory treatment. Further
more, Germany is so important from 
the point of view of population, 
geography, and economic produc
tivity that it could no more be 
ignored than it could be made to 
fit into the economic and political 
structure of a new Europe by the 
long-continued use of such force as 
is now making the occupation of 
Europe such a headache for the 
Nazi aggressors. We certainly still 
have to count on dealing positively 
with a German people who are go
ing to continue as an important 
factor in world relations.
The second assumption is that our 
policy toward Germany must have 
a considerable degree of flexibility. 
We cannot now predict exactly 
what type of Germany we shall 
have to deal with when the war is 
over. Authorities seem to differ as 
to the reaction of Germans to the
war experience and to the defeat 
which they are going to suffer. 
Suppose the bulk of the population 
is strongly Nazi even after total 
defeat. Suppose, as some suggest, 
that a Socialist revolution takes 
place at the close of the war when 
it is apparent that the Nazi are lost. 
Or suppose that the Nazi regime 
fell and no other group in Germany 
was strong enough to set up a gov
ernment. No one program of action 
could possibly work in all three 
contingencies. Even our long-run 
policy in dealing with Germany 
must be flexible. Both Germany 
and the world will change much in 
the next ten or fifteen years. We 
must be ready to modify policies as 
those changes demand. It would 
be dangerous to have just one blue
printed program. The temptation 
would be too strong to make the 
world fit the blueprint.
Third, the powers must collabo
rate in a program for Germany. 
Failure to do so would inevitably 
end in another great power strug
gle. While it would be foolish to 
ignore the importance of power in 
the world and even more foolish 
to assume that we could immediate
ly abolish it as an influence in 
international affairs, we must so 
for as possible avoid clashes over 
major issues which might produce 
war. Since the centers of power 
are now shifting in our world, we 
must begin to think in new terms 
of collaboration and must learn to 
operate in a society where compara
tive populations and economic pro
ductivity are rapidly shifting as 
between nations. We certainly can
not adopt a policy without regard 
to the interests of other peoples.
Of course we cannot and must 
not collaborate with anyone in any 
policy merely for the sake of peace. 
The world has seen too much of 
that in the past ten years. We do 
not want a peace of desolation. 
Therefore, as our fourth assumption 
states, we must know clearly what 
sort of world we want to live in 
and we must stand wholeheartedly 
for the things which will obtain 
that world. We cannot go back on 
our tradition of faith in the com
mon man and in his right to oppor
tunity and an increasingly good 
life. Out of that faith we must de
velop a program for Germany and 
the rest of the world which will 
give assurance to all powers, great 
and small, that when we and our 
friends use the power that will be 
ours, it will not be done for selfish 
reasons but in order that we and 
all others may live and let live. 
Most of all we must use our power 
so that all people may live better. 
To this end we must choose our 
friends carefully.
The carrying out of a policy based 
upon these first four assumptions 
will not be easy. So we must be 
ready, in the last peace, to change 
some of our ideas and some of our 
ways of doing things. For some 
people it might mean, let us say, a 
willingness to co-operate with and 
encourage a Socialist regime in 
Germany although they themselves 
disapproved of socialism as a pro
gram of action for this country. 
But if it is true that an alliance of 
Continued on Page 3

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 30, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Lieutenant Ditz
. . . Marine Harvey Cogswell 
was recently commissioned a sec
ond lieutenant in the U. S. Marine 
Corps after successfully completing 
the rugged officer training course at 
the Marine Corps School at Quantico, Virginia.
The new Lieutenant will now be. gin a two-month advanced course at 
Quantico, before being assigned to 
lead marines in battle. His com
mission was awarded at a colorful 
ceremony at the Leatherneck school. 
Second Lt. Cogswell graduated 
from Tech and entered the Marines 
in 1942. He has two uncles in the 
. service, Major Cogswell of the 
USMC and Col. Cogswell of the 
United States Army.
. . . Lt. James A. Schroeder of 
Swissvale is a prisoner of war in 
Germany, according to a late dis
patch received by his parents. Lt. 
Schroeder, 23, was a navigator on 
a bomber based in England. He has 
been reported missing since Febru
ary 24 in a raid over Germany.
.* . . Lieutenant Ernest Aita, 22, 
former Tech student has recently reLet's go to
IS AL Y'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CO]NS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
^aUi 9*t KluJti . . The Outlook
"Your help really counts 
when you're a MAC!"
? Private Mary E. Murray, South 
West Missouri Teachers College.
Being a Wac makes me feel Im 
helping my countrywhile I help 
myself, too. Im getting valuable 
training and experience for a post
war career. And Im all set to go 
new places.
? Major Cora W. Bass, Missis
sippi State College. As a member 
of the General Staff of the Second 
Service Command, I see daily the 
urgent need for more and more 
Wacs. To every college girl its a 
chance to serve her country in a 
truly important way.
New WAC opportunity 
for college girls
If you want to finish your college work before starting 
your Army career, you can enlist now and arrange to 
be called laterany time within the next 4 months.
The ARMW needs Wacs
... The IYAC needs you!
WOMEN'S ARMY CORPS
COUPON FOR INTERESTING FREE BOOKLET----?
U. S. ARMY RECRUITING STATION
201 Old Post Offiee Building Fourth Avenue & Smithfleld Street PITTSBURGH, PA.
I should like complete information about the WAC.
Mnmm
Address -
I I
State_______________ Phono Number --------------------------------------------*
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
By Jerry Brickman
... Reid Byers appeared on 
campus this week in his sharp En
signs uniform . . . A1 Sher, former 
Tau Delt and Frank Showman, exD. U., are now stationed at An
napolis training in the same pla
toons for commissions.
... From Yale University comes 
word that George Sherman has en
tered the Army Air Forces Train
ing Command School for aviation 
cadet training in armament.
Continued from Page 2 
industrialists, big landowners, and 
the military provided the basis for 
Nazi expansion, they would have to 
recognize that the best way of 
breaking the influence of some of 
these groups in Germany would be 
to deprive them of the property 
and position which gave them their 
power. In other words, our eventu
al goal might be achieved by vari
ous means in different places. To 
us the essential thing must be to 
set our goal and keep it clearly in 
mind and not be seared by words or 
new procedures if they will achieve 
our goal and not be inconsistent 
with it.
Of one thing we can be sure. We 
have lived long enough and seen 
enough so that we should know who 
are our enemies. Those people must 
receive some punishment, not be
cause they disagree with us, but 
because they have refused to let 
the rest of the world continue a 
peaceful search for a decent living. 
With those enemies we must not 
collaborate.
Student Employment
Draftingboys, spare time.
Water testing job on campus  
four hours per week.
Night electriciancampus.
Elevator boy  after school, 8 
hours, 50c per hour, can study on 
job.
Elevator job, 4-12, $92 month.
Two restaurant workers, 4-6 sal
ary, dinner.
Map drafting20 hours per week.
Drafting and office work60c 
hour._______________________________
ceived the Air Medal Award for 
exceptionally meritorious achieve
ments during many Eighth AAF 
bombing attacks against Germany 
and occupied Europe.
. . . James R. Vilsack just won 
his navy wings of gold and was 
commissioned an ensign in the Nav
al Reserve this week following com
pletion of the prescribed flight 
training course at Pensacola, Flor
ida. ,
say Americas college girls
? Corporal Margaret E. Wyant, 
University of California.My fam
ily has three men in the Armed 
Forces, so I couldnt just wait for 
the war to end. In the Womens 
Army Corps, Im working for vic
toryand I know its work thatll 
help bring our boys home sooner.
? Sergeant Anne Macintosh, New 
York University. My jobis one 
that any college girl would be proud 
to dointelligence work at an 
Army post! With 239 different jobs 
to choose from, every Wac has a 
chance to do work shes fitted for 
and enjoys.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH& CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 80, 1944
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
CHOOSE YOUR SANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO TH* FUTUR
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
.. ACAC Minutes..
Forty-fourth Meeting 
May 17, 1944 
The meeting was called to order at 
5:15 p m.
Present: Messrs. Bokman, Festenstein, 
Marcus; Misses Rial and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Publications
Mr. Bokman read the minutes of the 
Publications Committee meeting of April 
25. He moved that the minutes be ac
cepted as read.
Motion carried.
Athletics
Mr. Bokman, acting in the absence of 
Mr. Robbins, reported that a soft ball 
league is being organized. It is to have 
five teams of Army students and five of 
civilian students. The first place teams 
may receive either keys or a cup.
OLD BUSINESS
It was reported that the Book Drive 
had been completed and the books were 
ready to be packed and shipped.
NEW BUSINESS
Miss Rial read a petition submitted 
by Pi Delta Epsilon requesting the right 
to sponsor the all-school publication of 
the Student Handbook in the fall of 
1944. Miss Rial moved that the petition 
be accepted.
Mr. Festenstein moved that the dis
cussion be tabled until the next meeting, 
May 24.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Sally Bloom, 
Secretary.
Forty-fifth Meeting 
May 24, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 
5:26 p. m.
Present: Mr. Vaughn; Miss Barclay, 
Rial, and Bloom.
Since there were not enough members 
present to constitute a quorum, an in
formal discussion meeting was held.
It was decided that A. C. A. C. should 
meet at 7 p. m. Tuesday, May 30, and 
that notices should be sent to all mem
bers.
It was suggested that Pi Delta Epsilon 
handle the publication of the Student 
Handbook for the fall of 1944 only. After 
that, the Handbook is to return io the 
status of a student publication. No formal 
action could be taken.
Mr. Murphy presented a letter and 
clippings received from Northwestern 
University dealing with the coming na
tional election. He referred the material 
to Mr. Vaughn with the recommendation 
that our campus publications present to 
the students matters of national and in
ternational importance as well as campus 
activities. He suggested that the idea be 
discussed at the next A. C. A. C. meeting.
Mr. Murphy announced that, since he 
had been granted a leave of absence and 
would no longer be Counselor for A. C. 
A. C., the organization of A. C. A. C. will 
have to be revised. The reorganization is 
to be discussed at the next meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM,
Secretary.
Letters
Continued from Page 2
the American public has assumed the war over for all practical purposes. 
Americans are cashing in War Bonds, they are on the edge of their seats 
for the new model automobile; once more everyone is thinking about him
self first.
If America had undergone the hell which came to the little people of 
Europe and Asia, she might now have some conception of what it means 
to be an organized nation with the responsibilities thereof. Since she has 
been unscathed while all the rest of the world has suffered, she is incapa
ble of the proper appreciation of what constitutes the world. The Amer
ican form of government is something to be admired and emulated, after 
the war, throughout the world. But the fact has become almost blatantly 
evident that the American people are not the ones to take first place in 
any sort of world reorganization. They are not the ones to bring, by them
selves, democracy to the rest of the world. The best they can hope to do 
is follow along on somebodys coat tails, and see how it is done.
W. L. GARRISON
The Betas are the only other team 
to have won a game. They opened 
with a 19-6 victory over the Tau 
Delts Wednesday afternoon. Field
ing on both sides of this game was 
rather sloppy, but the Betas Bob 
Riddell was a much better hurler 
than any the Tau Delts could offer. 
Citcom has not yet played any 
games.
Following is a list of the stand
ings:
Team Won Lost
Junior Mechanicals ..........2 0
Beta Theta Pi ..................... 1 0
Tau Delta Phi..................... 0 1
Theta Xi ...............1............. 0 1
Delta Tau Delta.................. 0 1
Citcom ................................. 0 0
Marge Maddox Weds Lt. John Shear
On May 6th, Marge Maddox, our 
last years campus queen, was mar
ried. The groom was Lt. (j. g.) 
John Knox Shear, a former student 
of architecture at Tech and Prince
ton. Lt. Shear was also instructor 
of architecture here in 1943.
Tech extends best wishes and 
congratulations to Lt. and Mrs. John 
Knox Shear.
Junior Mechanicals 
Softball League
The intramural softball league 
got under way last Wednesday, 
even though there were only six 
teams entered in the competition. 
Four fraternities, the Betas, the Tau 
Delts, the TXs, and the Delts, have 
teams. Citcom has also entered, and 
the sixth team, known as the Junior 
Mechanicals, is made up of five 
SAEs and five Phi Kaps and Kappa 
Sigs.
From the results so far, the team 
beat seems to be the Junior Me
chanicals. They have played two 
games, one of which they won by 
sixteen, and the second b eighteen 
runs. The Delts and the TXs were 
their victims, the former by a 20-4 
count, the latter by 24-6. The Delts 
used three pitchers, Binder, Chris
tenson, and Landau, but to no avail. 
Don Worth tried for the TXs but 
with the same result. SAE Dave 
Saylor has been hurling for the 
Junior Mechanicals.
... or keeping youth happy at
Keeping young folks happy at home is mostly a matter of having 
a house in which they and their friends feel welcome. So dont 
forget Coca-Cola... its always a big attraction for the young 
crowd. It says better than words, Come on over to our bouse... were 
glad to see you. Be sure theres Coke" in your icebox.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COU COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
It natural for popular namea 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tion*. That why you heat 
Coca-Cola called Coke.
