PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
MOSAIC illuminates gender issues on campus  B8Stolen Valor Act endangers freedom of speech  A6
FORUM
Map of universe explores the mysteries of space  A4
SCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 27, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 20
JACKSON LANE
Staffwriter
Bring the restaurant out 
further, said David Bear, a 
fellow at Carnegie Mellons 
Studio for Creative Inquiry, 
gesturing to a virtual dining 
area on the computer screen. 
Were going to need more 
room for the kitchen. 
As fourth-year architecture major Dan Rapoport 
moved virtual objects around 
the screen, Bear explained, 
Not only do you need to 
serve the bar, the restaurant, and the cafeteria, but 
if theres an event upstairs, 
youre going to need [space 
in the kitchen] for catering.
Bear is leading the High 
Point Park Investigation, a 
proposal to build an environmentally friendly and publicly accessible facility on the 
roof of the U.S. Steel Tower, 
downtown Pittsburghs tallest skyscraper. 
Although a real-life facility is still being reviewed and 
considered by the city and 
potential ?nancial backers, 
teams from the School of Architecture and the Entertainment Technology Center are 
building a detailed virtual 
replica of the facility so that 
online users can get a feel for 
what it would be like when 
built.
The goal is to make this 
as realistic a virtual experience as possible, Bear said. 
We perceive the virtual destination as in itself something 
thats unique and worth visiting.
High Point Park started 
in 2010, when students and 
faculty from Carnegie Mellon participated in a sketch 
design competition for ways 
to use the approximately one 
acre of space at the top of the 
U.S. Steel Tower.
We generated a lot of 
ideas and creativity, but not 
a lot of it was really actionable, Bear said. We needed 
to ?gure out what could be 
done, and that suggested to 
us the notion of a virtual architectural workshop. When I 
became familiar with the capabilities of [computer-aided 
design] and what they were 
doing down at the Entertainment Technology Center ... 
we really allowed our collective imaginations to soar.
Rapoport is a member of 
the team designing the virtual facility. The primary focus will be the view, he said. 
Weve taken this Gigapan 
photograph from the roof of 
the building, and when you 
look out any of the windows, 
youll see what you would see 
if you were looking out the 
actual building.
Rapoport is also making 
space in the building for other, more interactive features, 
such as guided tours, virtual 
restaurants and meals, art 
shows, and stage performances.
Theres going be a large 
triangular stage here, Rapoport said, pointing out an 
outdoor theater on the computer screen. There will be 
some doors for the actors and 
actresses to come out of, and 
this part will act as a curtain. 
Well have dressing rooms for 
the actors back here.
Were going to have the 
virtual place for several years 
before the real place is built, 
and our intention is to take 
advantage of that virtual venue and to have events, music, 
plays, and things that will attract visitors, Bear said. And 
then theres no reason not 
to continue it after the real 
place is built.
The team expects to release a prototype for feedback and public beta testing 
in early March. By the end of 
the semester, the group plans 
to have a single-user simulation online.
The Entertainment Technology Center teams producer, Sean McChesney, said 
that the project is starting out 
small given tight time constraints. 
Guests will not see other 
real visitors, but will be able 
to see NPCs, non-player characters, that will be animated 
and speak to give a sense 
of liveliness to the space, 
McChesney said. The sheer 
amount of work involved, 
coupled with our 15-week 
time frame and a four-man 
team, will not allow us to create a multi-user experience, 
but we have documentation 
on how to create such an experience that we will hopefully get to pass along to the 
next contingent of students in 
order to realize this goal.
As the man responsible 
for implementing all of the 
features proposed by Rapoport and Bear, McChesney 
knows the projects scope 
well. It is ambitious for a 
mere demonstration, but we 
are making much more than 
that, McChesney said. This 
is designed to be a simulation 
like no other that is currently 
available. The simulation 
is built to give the guests a 
unique experience and opportunity to visit a location 
to which only a few people in 
the world have access.
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
Three Carnegie Mellon 
professors met in Rangos Hall 
on Saturday night to discuss 
work, the universe, and everything.
The professors  computer science professor David 
Kosbie, information systems 
and marketing professor Michael Smith, and anthropology professor Marie Norman 
 are a practical humanist, 
a Christian, and an agnostic, respectively. They met as 
part of the Veritas Forum, a 
Christian organization that 
hosts panels with Christians 
and non-Christians on college 
campuses. Veritas Forums 
have featured panelists such 
as author Madeleine LEngle 
and atheist activist Christopher Hitchens.
The theme of Saturdays 
forum was work. Kosbie, 
Smith, and Norman shared 
their personal and philosophical experiences with the subject. Each panelist delivered 
an eight-minute introductory 
speech. Then the moderator, 
music history professor Paul 
Johnston, prompted them 
with questions from himself 
and the audience about how 
and why we work.
Veritas Forum elicits views on workCMU architects 
make virtual view
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
Contributing Editor
The International Rescue 
Committee (IRC) spoke to students on campus this week, 
disseminating information regarding refugee resettlement 
and encouraging students to 
become active in the local and 
national support systems that 
constitute the resettlement 
process.
The IRC is an international 
organization that responds to 
humanitarian emergencies as 
they emerge across the globe. 
At work in over 40 countries 
and in 22 U.S. cities, the IRC 
works to restore stability to 
those uprooted or struggling 
as a result of crises.
While the IRC has recently 
worked on many relief-based 
efforts  including providing 
food to East Africans, rebuilding infrastructure after the 
?ooding in Pakistan, and aid 
for victims of the Japanese 
tsunami and earthquake  
the organization also focuses 
on providing assistance and 
organizing resettlement for 
refugees worldwide. Intervening in all aspects of the process, from immediate relief 
efforts to the resettlement of 
displaced populations in the 
United States, IRC members 
lead the way from harm to 
home, as their slogan says.
Most people in the audience were members of Facilitating Opportunities for 
Refugee Growth and Empowerment (FORGE), a student 
organization that works with 
government and non-government agencies to place 
students with local refugee 
families in need. Student volunteers offer services that 
may be otherwise overlooked 
due to insuf?cient funding 
and staff availability, including one-on-one tutoring in 
English, educating about the 
American culture, and training in basic tasks such as grocery shopping and cooking. 
FORGE was the host of the 
presentation.
IRC representatives Erica 
Marcus and Katherine Rehberg from the IRCs of?ce in 
Silver Spring, Md. delivered 
the talk. Marcus and Rehberg 
work with refugees attempting to resettle in the United 
States. 
In their talk, they offered 
advice relevant to students 
currently volunteering with 
local refugee families. In 
particular, they offered a list 
of seven best practices for 
working with refugee families, which included things 
like know when to make a 
referral and be aware of cultural differences.
The IRCs refugee resettlement agency is heavily related 
to what FORGE does. We 
thought it would be a good 
opportunity to learn more 
about the situation and how 
we can help, said Nikhil Bikhchandani, current president of 
FORGE and sophomore electrical and computer engineering major.
Emily Feenstra, a junior decision science major in the Science and Humanities Scholars 
program and current co-vice 
president of FORGE, found 
the event useful for providing 
simple strategies to integrate 
into her time with her refugee 
family. For me, the tips given 
on how to stimulate conversations with our family were 
particularly helpful, Feenstra 
said.
It helped me get a better understanding of the the 
refugee resettlement process, 
said sophomore art and global 
studies double major Jenny 
Soracco, who tutors a Bhutanese family through FORGE. 
I was able to see a better 
picture of where my family is 
now, and what process theyve 
gone through so far. They also 
presented pertinent information regarding what can 
be dif?cult for these refugee 
families now that they may 
not feel comfortable voicing 
to me.
Whether sharing communication techniques or best 
practices, IRC representatives 
encouraged FORGE members, 
and other students in attendance, to work in whatever 
ways possible to provide local 
solutions to humanitarian issues that exist globally. What 
you do is crucial, Rehberg 
said. It may seem like a small 
thing, but it can make the 
difference for these individuals who have already been 
through so much.
Feenstra asserted that she 
also bene?ts from the time 
she volunteers to work with 
her refugee family. I think 
working with a refugee family has been the best experience possible to get out of my 
own ethnic-socioeconomicnational bubble, she said. To 
recognize and connect with 
people who have struggled 
and endured through so much 
introduces a whole new perspective to our daily struggles 
and gives me great humility.
Students interested in joining efforts to facilitate refugee 
resettlement efforts can contact FORGE to join its tutoring 
program or ?nd volunteer opportunities directly with several local Pittsburgh agencies, 
including the Jewish Family 
& Childrens Service of Pittsburgh, the Greater Pittsburgh 
Literacy Council, and Catholic 
Charities of Pittsburgh.
Refugee counselors speak to FORGE
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Erica Marcus and Katherine Rehberg, two representatives of the International Rescue Committee (IRC), spoke 
to members of Carnegie Mellons Facilitating Opportunities for Refugee Growth and Empowerment chapter on 
Thursday. As part of the IRC, Marcus and Rehberg help to resettle refugees in the Washington, D.C. area.Juan Fernandez/Staff
Courtesy of Allison Huang
Audience members at the Veritas Forum reacts to a panelists joke. The forum, held on Saturday night, drew a 
crowd of several hundred students, faculty, and staff to listen to three Carnegie Mellon professors share their 
views on how and why we should work. Afterward, audience members broke into discussion groups.See VERITAS, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 27, 2012
Masahiro Fujita
Monday at 2 p.m. 
Gates Hillman Complex 
6501
Masahiro Fujita, a professor in the VLSI Design and 
Education Center at the University of Tokyo in Japan, will 
deliver a seminar titled Tsunami Simulation on FPGA 
and its Analysis Based on Statistical Model Checking. 
The lecture will discuss 
the ways in which the simulation of tsunamis can be accelerated using ?eld-programmable gate arrays (FPGA) 
and graphics processing units 
(GPU). 
Because of their different 
memory structures, FPGA 
and GPU deal with variables 
in different ways. The lecture 
will also cover error checking of the bounds of tsunami 
simulations.
Fujita received his Ph.D. 
from the University of Tokyo. 
He is the co-author of seven 
books and the author of over 
100 publications.
Biomedical Engineering 
Seminar Series: Randy 
Bartels
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Breed Hall 
(Margaret Morrison 103)
Randy Bartels, a professor of electrical engineering 
at Colorado State University, 
will give a talk titled Advances in Speed and Resolution in 
Nonlinear and Fluorescent 
Optical Microscopies. 
The lecture will discuss 
the recent developments in 
Bartels lab, which has generated three-dimensional image acquisitions in approximately one millisecond of 
exposure.  
Bartles says that the results could have an effect on 
activities such as embryonic 
heart imaging and three-dimensional imaging of neural 
circuitry. 
Bartels will also discuss 
the work his lab has completed in enhancing the resolution of three-dimensional 
images. 
Algorithmic Economics 
Seminar: Michael Kearns
Tuesday at noon 
 Newell-Simon Hall 
3305
Michael Kearns, a professor of computer and information science at the University 
of Pennsylvania, will discuss 
experiments that have been 
performed with human subjects in microeconomic trading networks.
In the experiments, the 
players were divided into two 
groups with mutual interests 
in trade, and then arranged 
in networks that created potential asymmetries in negotiating power. Players could 
only trade with their immediate neighbors. This model 
has a detailed equilibrium 
theory in which variation in 
individual wealth is directly 
related to global network 
structure. Kearns will discuss 
his ?ndings, as well as several 
other analyses.
Machine Learning 
Special Seminars: 
Benjamin Van Durme
Thursday at 1:30 p.m. 
Newell-Simon Hall 1305
Benjamin Van Durme, a 
professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins University, will deliver a seminar 
titled Simple Randomized 
Algorithms for Large-scale 
HLT. 
Van Durme will give an 
overview of two methods for 
dealing with large-scale language data with streaming 
and randomized algorithms: 
Bloom ?lters and localitysensitive hashing. He will discuss how the methods have 
been used within the HLT 
computer language, such as 
for counting over large key 
sets in limited memory. Van 
Durme, a former Carnegie 
Mellon graduate student, 
specializes in natural language processing, streaming 
and randomized algorithms, 
and psycholinguistics.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations 
In The Frame Film Festival displays student work 
(News, Feb. 20), Claire Gustavson was incorrectly identi?ed as a Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student. 
Gustavson is actually an art and ethics, history, and public policy double major.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Two members of the Fine 
Outreach for Science Fellows, part of the Robotics 
Institutes CREATE Lab, have 
successfully used photomosaic technologies to study 
tracks left behind by a herd 
of prehistoric elephants. The 
resulting images offer previously unavailable insights 
into the social behavior of 
these prehistoric beasts.
Faysal Bibi, a paleontologist at the Museum fr 
Naturkunde in Berlin, and 
co-author Nathan Craig, assistant professor of anthropology at Pennsylvania State 
University, worked together 
on developing an analysis of 
these footsteps. 
The tracks were made 
over seven million years ago 
by at least 13 individual elephants that cover an area 
of more than 12 acres. By 
using a camera mounted on 
a kite to take aerial photos, 
Bibi and Craig were able to 
digitally stitch together each 
individual image to form a 
highly accurate photomosaic 
of the site.
Once we saw it aerially, 
it became a much different 
and clearer story. Seeing the 
whole site in one shot meant 
we could ?nally understand 
what was happening, said 
another co-author, Brian 
Kraatz, in a university press 
release. Krantz works at 
Western University of Health 
Sciences.
The authors of the paper 
are both Fine Fellows. The 
Fine Fellowship is sponsored 
by the Fine Foundation. The 
Fine Fellowship   encourages 
leading scientists to use 
perform new and innovative 
tasks with gigapixel imagery. 
GigaPan, a service which 
was developed by Carnegie 
Mellon and NASA, is one 
example of gigapixel imagery 
technologies.
Compiled by
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
NASA astronaut Catherine 
Cady Coleman will present 
her professional experiences 
to Carnegie Mellons new student chapter of the American 
Institute of Aeronautics and 
Astronautics (AIAA). Coleman will focus her discussion 
on the importance of her engineering and science education.
Coleman received a bachelor of science in chemistry 
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983 
and a doctorate in polymer 
science and engineering from 
the University of Massachusetts in 1991. Coleman was 
selected to be an astronaut by 
NASA in March 1992.
In her ?rst space ?ight, 
Coleman orbited the Earth 
256 times, traveled more 
than six million miles, and 
logged a total of 15 days, 21 
hours, 52 minutes, and 21 
seconds in space. Coleman 
has logged more than 4,330 
hours in space aboard the 
the International Space 
Station and the Space Shuttle 
Columbia.
This is a wonderful opportunity for our students to 
see and meet such a distinguished leader in her ?eld, 
said Nadine Aubry, head of 
Carnegie Mellons Mechanical Engineering Department 
and a fellow of the AIAA, in a 
university press release.
AIAA student leaders Jayon Wang, a junior mechanical engineering major, and 
Emerson Silva, a sophomore 
mechanical engineering major, will introduce the astronaut to more than 30 members of the new AIAA student 
chapter.
We are very honored to 
meet such a prestigious aerospace leader who has traversed the world and beyond 
as a pioneer for engineers 
and scientists alike, Wang 
said in the press release. Her 
accomplishments are something we all wish to emulate.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
New research reveals social lives of prehistoric elephantsNASA astronaut to speak to students about education
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
48 / 39
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
58 / 40
THURSDAY
High / Low
43 / 35
FRIDAY
High / Low
54 / 43
SATURDAY
High / Low
48 / 35
Traf?c Stop
Feb. 17, 2012
University Police initiated 
a traf?c stop on the 4800 
block of Forbes Avenue on a 
vehicle that was traveling at 
a high rate of speed. The of?-
cer determined that the drivers operating privilege was 
under suspension, and the 
vehicle inspection and emissions stickers on the vehicle 
were expired. The vehicle was 
driven from the scene by a licensed driver and citations 
were issued.
Odor of Marijuana
Feb. 17, 2012
Of?cers responded to 
Resnik House for a report of 
an odor of marijuana. Of?cers 
were able to locate the room 
that was the source of the 
odor, and spoke with the 
residents of the room. One 
resident admitted to smoking 
marijuana and was issued 
a Carnegie Mellon internal 
citation.
Harassment
Feb. 18, 2012
A student reported that he 
was receiving threatening text 
messages from an unknown 
person. Inappropriate threats 
and pictures were being sent. 
The student did not recognize 
the number that the messages 
were being sent from, and believed that they were sent to 
him by mistake. This case is 
still under investigation.
Theft
Feb. 18, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported to University Police 
that, while he was exercising 
at the University Center at approximately 3 p.m., he and his 
friend left the ?tness room for 
30 minutes to go to the cardio 
room. When he returned to 
the ?tness room, he found his 
wallet on the ?oor by a trash 
can and $180 had been stolen 
from the wallet.
Alcohol Amnesty
Feb. 19, 2012
University Police and Carnegie Mellon EMS were summoned to Margaret Morrison 
Plaza for a call of a highly 
intoxicated 19-year-old male 
who was semi-conscious. 
The male was transported to 
UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. No citations were issued 
because the alcohol amnesty 
program was applied.
Odor of Marijuana
Feb. 21, 2012
During routine patrol, of?cers noticed an odor of marijuana outside in the Peace 
Garden area above Posner 
Center. A marijuana cigarette 
was found in the vicinity of 
three males, one of whom admitted to smoking marijuana. 
Citations were issued.
Vehicle Damage
Feb. 22, 2012
Of?cers responded to the 
East Campus Garage for a report of vehicle damage. Upon 
arrival, of?cers were able to 
locate the possible vehicle and 
persons responsible for the 
damage, and insurance information was exchanged.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Emily Dobler/Editor-in-Chief
Girl Scout troop 50786 sells cookies in the University Center on Saturday. Classic favorites such as Thin Mints, Tagalongs, and Samoas were for sale, 
in addition to the new lemon-?avored cookies Savannah Smiles, which celebrate the 100th anniversary of the organization.
Statistically Speaking
Leap years come along nearly every four years, due 
to the fact that there are 365.25 days in a year. Therefore, every four years, an additional day is added to 
the month of February. This year, is a leap year, with 
Wednesday being Feb. 29. This week, celebrate leap day 
with these facts and ?gures:
1900
The last year divisible by four which was not also a 
leap year1288
The year that Queen Margret of Scotland ordered that 
any man who was proposed to on leap day and refused 
the proposal could be ?ned either a kiss, a silk dress, or 
a pair of gloves to be given to the rejected woman.
238 B.C.
The year the ?rst calendar that included a leap day was introduced 
in Egypts Ptolemaic dynasty
1 in 1,461
The chances of having a leap day birthday
Compiled by 
COURTNEY WITTEKINDSource: itthing.com
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Students buy Girl Scout cookies in UC

---------------------------------------------------

February 27, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
The panelists thoughts 
largely focused on two questions: How do we justify our 
existence, and what is the balance between what we owe 
ourselves and what we owe 
the world? Though neither 
question was ever explicitly 
asked, the panelists answers 
to the questions they received 
revealed their views.
Kosbie de?nes himself as 
a practical humanist; he subscribes to a universal human 
code of ethics, independent 
of any religion. He is also, he 
said, infamous for working 
his students hard. According 
to Kosbie, his students put 
50,000 man-hours into his 
courses last semester.
Kosbie said that he believes people can do great 
things with hard work, as long 
as they put their effort in the 
right places. To demonstrate, 
he read a list of student projects that he was consulted on 
in the past week. They ranged 
from a comprehensive calendar for all Carnegie Mellon 
events to a version of MapQuest that would map the 
insides of buildings and help 
paramedics ?nd injured people quickly. These projects are 
the kind of work that Kosbie 
said he appreciates. When I 
write a letter of recommendation for a straight-A student, I 
damn them with faint praise. I 
say, They got As,  Kosbi said. 
But if a student  with less than 
perfect grades really achieved 
something, he stresses that 
they changed the world, not 
that they got Bs or Cs.
The audience reacted loudly to Kosbies jokes, in addition 
to the two personal stories he 
used to demonstrate his view 
on work. Kosbie told the more 
serious of his stories in response to an audience members question about what his 
biggest work-related regret 
was. Kosbie described a dog 
that had been hit by a car on 
the highway on a rainy night. 
The dog backed away from all 
of Kosbies attempts to help it, 
and the dog eventually went 
over a steep hill. Kosbie, who 
was late to a family holiday 
celebration, did not follow it. 
I didnt go down the hill, and 
to this day Im very troubled 
by it, he said. I view myself 
as a certain person, and yet 
I cant. Because, look, Im a 
practical humanist. Practice. 
I didnt put into practice my 
own belief.
Smith, a devout Christian, 
said that he believes all humans already have Gods acceptance, and that no work 
we do  or not do  can 
change that. Smith said that 
people cannot make up for 
their sins with good works. I 
owe a debt I cant pay, and Jesus wants to pay that debt for 
me, Smith said.
Since we are all accepted 
through the grace of God, 
Smith said, we do not need to 
look toward work to de?ne or 
satisfy our identities. Smith 
shared the story of his ?rst 
semester in graduate school, 
when he realized that no matter how hard he worked, there 
were some classes in which he 
still wouldnt have been able 
to achieve anything better 
than mediocrity.
One audience member 
asked Smith why we should 
do work at all, if we are already accepted by God. Smith 
explained that he feels a personal sense of duty because of 
his understanding of what Jesus sacri?ced for him. He said 
that work, for him, is a way of 
saying thank you to God for 
the gifts he has been given. 
But Smith acknowledged that 
such a belief would not be 
true for everyone: Conceptually, you can do whatever you 
want, he said.
Norman said that her views 
were not based on any strict 
philosophy, but were instead 
the culmination of her life experiences. She said that we, as 
Americans and as members of 
the Carnegie Mellon community, place too much emphasis 
on work and not enough on 
rest and socialization.
Norman placed particular 
emphasis on balancing work 
and leisure so as to increase 
ones personal satisfaction 
in life. She described a blog 
post by palliative care specialist Bonnie Ware. Ware listed 
the most common regrets she 
heard on peoples death beds. 
The second most common 
regret was, I wish I hadnt 
worked so hard.
Norman said that, for their 
own satisfaction, people need 
to balance their work with 
their social lives and community: You can change the 
world and still be home in 
time for the kids bedtime.
After the panel, interested 
members of the audience met 
at round tables in the back of 
the room to discuss their own 
views. Each table was sponsored by a student organization, and each discussion was 
led by an organization member.
The forum attracted a large 
and diverse audience. Among 
the several hundred attendees 
were Christians, Muslims, and 
agnostics; students, professors, and staff; and University 
of Pittsburgh students. Firstyear mechanical engineering 
and biomedical engineering 
major  Taylor Hughes, a member of the New Life Christian 
Fellowship who helped to run 
the event, said, Im hoping 
itll spark some conversations 
on campus about the bigger questions. She said that 
she thinks Carnegie Mellon 
students often suppress discussion about broader philosophical questions, but that 
the popularity of the Veritas 
Forum may loosen them up.
University of Pittsburgh 
mathematics graduate student Aaron Greenspan said, 
I really liked what Smith was 
saying. Im not a Christian, 
but I really liked what he was 
concerned with. However, 
Greenspan said he wished 
that the panelists had a more 
speci?c prompt for their initial eight-minute speeches. I 
thought if theyd been given 
a prompt, it would have done 
them a service. It would have 
made their stances clearer, 
Greenspan said.
Fourth-year architecture 
major Aaron Swartz, a member of Carnegie Mellons 
Atheists, Humanists, and Agnostics, generally enjoyed the 
forum. However, he felt that 
one or two additional religious 
panelists might have made it 
more comprehensive. Id be 
curious to hear someone with 
a Muslim perspective, or a 
Hindu perspective, or another 
perspective. The perspective 
of a Christian group is so different from mine that I ?nd it 
hard to understand his argument, and I think that maybe 
another religious perspective 
might have helped.
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellons Qatar 
campus created an outreach 
program, called CS4Qatar 
for Women, to bring women 
into the ?eld of computer science. The program is part of 
CMU-Qs broader CS4Qatar 
agenda. Reem Al-Mansoori, 
former e-inclusion manager 
and current information and 
communication technology 
skills development manager 
at Qatars ICT regulatory 
body, ictQatar, started the 
CS4Qatar program. According to CMU-Qs website, 
CS4Qatar is a series of Computer Science workshops for 
secondary students, which 
are designed for students in 
Qatar who want to broaden 
their horizons in the ever-expanding and broad-reaching 
?eld of computer science.
Khaled Harras, a CMU-Q 
computer science professor 
heavily involved in the program, said via email that the 
workshop marks an inevitable collaboration with ICT 
Qatar [sic] in helping [Carnegie Mellon] deliver the 
message of the importance 
of computing education and 
awareness in Qatar.
Ninety high school students out of 200 applicants 
attended the womens program. They listened to a 
discussion panel and took 
part in a workshop on the 
3-D graphics tool Alice and 
on puzzle and problem solving. The focus on females 
this year is simply because 
they are half the society and 
in this culture, in this part 
of the world, it is even more 
crucial to reach out to this 
half, Harras said. The focus 
on female students is also an 
international trend to better 
balance gender involvement 
in rigorous engineering and 
sciences programs.
Maryam Ali, a senior computer science major, studied 
at CMU-Q in the spring of 
2011. The classes are much 
smaller, she said. Every professor knows every student in 
their class. According to Ali, 
there is a substantial amount 
of female participation in 
computer science on the 
Qatar campus. The gender 
make-up is different, about 
5050, Ali said.
Natalie Hildebrandt, a junior computer science major 
who is currently studying at 
CMU-Q, said via email, The 
most noticeable academic 
experience that CMU Qatar 
offers is personalized instruction. The class sizes here are 
small, your professors door 
is always open for help or 
for conversation. Hildebrandt said that she supports 
the idea of engaging all Qatar residents in pursuing the 
education that they desire. 
Educational outreach is very 
needed here compared to in 
the States, as there are fewer 
universities serving a more 
diverse high school population, Hildebrandt said.
This April, CMU-Q will 
hold a CS4Qatar event that 
will detail opportunities for 
undergraduate research in 
the ?eld of computer science, 
featuring female computer 
science students and professionals as panelists.
Harras said, Our goal in 
CS4Qatar is to help spread 
this awareness among the 
younger generations  by 
reaching out to the students 
and exposing them to technological and computer science 
basics. We hope that through 
this work and effort by Carnegie Mellon, we plant a seed 
that continues to grow the 
students interest, motivation, and excitement in these 
crucial areas of knowledge.
Qatar CS reaches 
out to local girlsProfessors ponder work at forum
VERITAS, from A1
I didnt go down the hill, and to 
this day Im very troubled by it. I 
view myself as a certain person, 
and yet I cant.... I didnt put into 
practice my own belief.
David Kosbie
Professor of computer science

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 27, 2012
Professors aim to unleash full potential of DNA sequencing
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Junior Staffwriter
When scientists revealed 
the structure of a DNA molecule in 1953, many people 
took this discovery to mean 
that the secret of life had 
been found. However, almost 
60 years later, diseases still go 
undiagnosed while patients 
suffer. Many scientists believe that having a complete 
understanding of DNA will 
help doctors diagnose their 
patients more swiftly and accurately. That belief is no exception at Carnegie Mellon, 
as researchers are developing 
software aimed to help doctors ?nally make sense of patients DNA.
Robert Murphy, professor 
of biology and director of the 
Lane Center for Computational Biology, is heading a project that aims to create a doctor in a box software that 
combines computer science 
and biology to assist doctors. 
Murphy said that this type of 
research has been ongoing 
at Carnegie Mellon for many 
years, but the Personal Genome Sequencer, a machine 
that can swiftly decipher the 
code of a DNA molecule, has 
elevated the need for bringing this research into practical applications.
The entire DNA molecule 
in a human cell is made up 
of thousands of smaller segments called genes. These 
genes are made up of building blocks called nuclueotide 
bases, and it is the speci?c 
sequence of these bases that 
scientists refer to as the DNA 
sequence. 
The combination of genes 
in a peoples DNA determines 
their particular traits, such as 
their hair color or what they 
are allergic to. If scientists can 
sequence or determine the 
speci?c genes in someones 
DNA, it may be possible to 
determine what diseases the 
person has.
The huge rise in DNA research over the past 30 years 
has helped scientists make 
conclusions about which 
genes represent which diseases. The problem, however, 
is that there is a multitude of 
information in one strand of 
DNA. As a result, it is practically impossible for a doctor 
to reach a conclusion by simply knowing a DNA sequence.
In the past, sequencing 
DNA was a drawn out and 
expensive process, making 
it a hassle for doctors and 
researchers. Jonathan Rothberg, a Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus and founder of the 
biotechnology company ION 
Torrent, recognizes and attempts to solve this problem.
Over the past decade, 
Rothberg and his company 
have developed a faster and 
cheaper method of DNA sequencing that uses small differences in the structure of 
DNA molecules to determine 
the genetic code. Their ?nished product, known as the 
Personal Genome Sequencer, 
was released last year at a 
price of $50,000.
With the ability to swiftly 
sequence an individuals DNA 
in two hours, Murphy and his 
team are working with Rothberg to develop a software 
that can take the DNA code 
determined by the Personal 
Genome Sequencer and make 
conclusions about a patients 
DNA.
The project commenced 
less than ?ve months ago, 
but Murphy is excited that 
he and his team have had a 
lot of great discussions and 
the project is quickly taking shape. He said that the 
software should be ready 
for use in the next six to 12 
months.
Looking into the future, 
Murphy remains optimistic. 
In ?ve years, this type of 
software will be able to be applied to clinical practice, he 
said.
One of the most important 
aspects of the software is the 
idea of endless learning. You 
dont train a system and then 
release it, but rather the system is continuously learning 
from whatever data is available, Murphy said. In other 
words, the software continues to make new associations 
between genes and diseases 
from the analyzed DNA.
According to the National 
Human Genome Research 
Institute website, the price 
of personal DNA sequencing 
has plunged from $3 billion 
dollars to $50,000 per person 
with the Personal Genome 
Sequencer, but this price is 
still too high for DNA seqencing to have an impact on 
medicine. 
The ultimate goal Murphy 
and Rothberg share is to make 
sequencing and analyzing an 
individuals DNA for less than 
$1,000, an affordable price 
for clinicians.
Massive 3-D universal map explores mysteries of space
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
A group of researchers 
led by Shirley Ho, a Carnegie 
Mellon assistant professor of 
physics, has made signi?cant 
strides in analyzing a trillionpixel, three-dimensional map 
of the universe. Ho and her 
team hope their results lead to 
a better understanding of the 
origins of the universe.
Ho is an active participant in the Sloan Digital Sky 
Survey (SDSS), a gigantic, 
multi-university effort for 
astrophysicists to map out 
areas of the universe. Based 
at Apache Point Observatory 
in New Mexico, the survey 
uses a 2.5-meter telescope, 
equipped with a large-format 
digital camera, to capture celestial bodies over 6 billion 
light years away.
According to SDSSs website, the projects most recent iteration  SDSS-III 
 is working to map out the 
Milky Way galaxy, search for 
extrasolar planets, and explore the mysteries of dark 
energy. 
Just last year, the largest 
three-dimensional color map 
of the universe was unveiled 
as part of the Baryon Oscillation Spectrographic Survey, 
a branch of SDSS-III. It was 
this unique, trillion-pixel image that Ho and her team 
assessed. From the 1.5 million 
galaxies captured within the 
image, Ho and her team chose 
over 900,000 to analyze.
We used multiple computing clusters, Ho said. 
One of them was in the National Energy Research Scienti?c Computing Center. Its 
basically a national facility 
thats for all kinds of research. 
We also used supercomputing 
facilities in Yale University.
Ho said that the research 
is still very much a work in 
progress. We havent started 
using the computing resources here [at Carnegie Mellon] 
yet, but we intend to, Ho explained.
What numbers are these 
massive computing clusters 
crunching? Ho pointed to the 
Optimal Quadratic Estimator, 
a theorem-turned-algorithm 
that she and her team used on 
the map to estimate distances 
of celestial bodies from one 
another. The collection of distances was then transformed 
into a power spectrum   a 
set of data that essentially 
gave astrophysicists information about the distribution 
of matter throughout the 
universe.
Because of their work with 
such a massive data set, Ho 
and her colleagues are credited with forming the most 
accurate power spectrum 
calculation of the universe to 
date.
The power spectrum tells 
you how fast the universe is 
expanding, and how much 
dark matter and neutrinos exist in the universe, Ho said. 
The power spectrum contains a wealth of information 
that could help explain what 
happened at the beginning of 
the universe and during the 
expansion of the universe.
Power spectrums may also 
help unravel the secrets of 
dark energy, a hypothetical 
form of energy that opposes 
gravity by continuously pushing matter apart. While dark 
energy accounts for about 
73 percent of the total massenergy of the universe, scientists know very little about 
it. However, Ho is expecting 
this situation to change in the 
future as research continues.
Analyses of these large 
celestial maps also make it 
easier to observe important 
trends, including ones that 
may explain the origins of the 
universe. With these maps, 
astrophysicists are able to 
observe the distributions of 
galaxies and make inferences 
about the distributions of 
bodies in the early universe 
based on those structures. According to Ho, a scienti?c paper detailing these ?ndings is 
in the works.
Were linking 13.6 billion years of history, Ho said. 
Were going all the way back 
to the beginning.
Ho is currently being assisted in this research by graduate students, though she had 
a few words to offer interested 
undergraduates.
For projects like these, 
were looking actively for 
students to help, Ho said. 
A signi?cant part of the collaboration consists of young 
people.... You dont need to 
have multiple degrees to do 
this.
Courtesy of Sloan Digital Sky Survey
Shirley Ho, an assistant professor of physics, worked with astrophysicists at the Apache Point Observatory 
in New Mexico to analyze a massive three-dimensional map of the universe. The observatory utilizes a 
2.5-meter telescope to capture bodies in space over 6 billion light years away. 
SCITECH BRIEFS
Charge your cell phone with a touch
Thanks to researchers at 
Wake Forest University, powering your cell phone could 
be as easy as touching it. This 
new technology, called Power 
Felt, uses tiny carbon nanotubes to sense temperature 
differences, such as the temperature of your hand versus 
room temperature, to create 
an electrical charge. The carbon nanotubes are wrapped in 
plastic ?bers to make the material feel like fabric.
The scientists claim that 
potential uses for the material 
include lining car seats to increase battery power or wrapping wounds to easily track 
medical needs. Although similar thermoelectric technology 
exists, the researchers claim 
that Power Felts affordability 
may make it possible to wrap 
a cell phone with the material 
for as little as $1.
Source: Science Daily
Faster-than-light particles doubted
The faster-than-light particles that were reported in 
Gran Sasso, Italy, last September may have actually been 
a result of faulty wiring. Two 
possible errors are currently 
being discussed among the 
scientists involved. A malfunction in the timing equipment, 
if con?rmed, would mean that 
the particles traveled even 
faster than they were originally recorded. The second 
possible error involves an optical ?ber connection, which 
would mean that the particles 
speed was less than the speed 
of light.
Many believed that the original ?ndings, which showed 
subatomic particles called neutrinos traveling faster than the 
speed of light, would undermine Albert Einsteins theory 
of relativity. 
Source: BBC News
Girls better than boys at arithmetic
A recent study has shown 
that girls outperform boys 
in arithmetic exercises. Psychologists from Beijing Normal University performed a 
series of tests with children 
aged eight to 11, and found 
girls to perform better than 
the boys in arithmetic tasks, 
such as simple addition and 
subtraction or quickly estimating an array that contains 
more dots than another. Boys 
outperformed girls in mentally rotating three-dimensional 
images.
Girls were also better able 
to recognize whether two 
words rhymed, which led the 
researchers to believe that 
the girls verbal skills made 
them better at arithmetic. The 
researchers argue that tasks 
like counting and memorizing 
multiplication tables are verbal tasks, so the skills go hand 
in hand.
Source: Science Daily
Male-determining gene stabilizing
Men may breathe a sigh 
of relief as researchers have 
found that the Y-chromosome 
may not be withering away 
like scientists have speculated. 
Some 320 million years ago, 
the Xand Y-chromosomes 
contained nearly 1,000 genes 
each. Since then, however, the 
X-chromosome has retained 
an estimated 790 genes while 
the Y has withered down to a 
mere 19, one of which is the 
male-determining gene.
Scientists at the Whitehead 
Institute in Cambridge, Mass., 
examined the Y-chromosome 
of rhesus monkeys, which  
once shared a common ancestor with humans. They found 
that most of the chromosomes self-sacri?ce occurred 
more than 25 million years 
ago, indicating that the analogous chromosome in humans 
has likely stabilized in size.
Source: The New York Times
Epidemiologists turn to the internet
A team of researchers at 
Johns Hopkins University 
recently started looking at 
health-related Google search 
history to see if they could 
predict epidemics. They compared Google searches originating in Baltimore to the 
number of people that showed 
up at a local emergency room 
with ?u-like symptoms.
The team found a high correlation between ?u-related 
Google searches and the number of ?u patients admitted to 
local hospitals. One weakness 
of this online surveillance was 
that public hysteria may skew 
the results, such as when there 
was a spike in ?u searches after the 2009 bird ?u outbreak 
was announced. However, 
hospitals still saw 6 percent 
more people showing up to 
hospitals during the week of 
heightened anxiety.
Source: NPR
Social networking sites more private
According to a recent Pew 
Research Center poll, users of 
social networking sites such 
as Facebook have been editing 
their content to protect their 
privacy more than before. The 
poll, which surveyed 2,277 users by phone, said that nearly 
two-thirds of social networking site users have deleted 
people from their friends 
lists, an increase from 56 percent in 2009. Seven percent 
more users have been removing their names from photos, 
and 8 percent more have been 
deleting comments that others made on their pro?les 
since the 2009 survey. 
The report indicated that 
the results re?ect an increase 
in online privacy concerns 
among consumers.
Source: Reuters
Compiled by
DANIEL TKACIK
Daniel Tkacik/SciTech Editor
Carnegie Mellon professor of biology Robert Murphy has been developing a software tool that will help doctors 
better understand their patients DNA and improve disease diagonoses.
It is practically 
impossible for a 
doctor to reach 
a conclusion 
by simply 
knowing a DNA 
sequence.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Co-Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Stephanie Blotner, Connie 
Chan, Hannah Dellabella, Sage Po, Michael 
Setzer, Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
LAYOUT
Jennifer Coloma
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Co-Publisher 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
KATIE CHIRONIS * 
Online Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL KAHN 
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
February 27, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A5
Price hikes after celebrity deaths show bigger issue
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Whitney Houstons death last 
week elicited sympathy, renditions 
of I Wanna Dance with Somebody 
(Who Loves Me), and pro?t. After 
Houston died, Sony brie?y raised 
the price of two of her albums on the 
British iTunes. We should not condone price increases of a product following the creators death. 
Houston died on Feb. 11. Early 
last Sunday, the cost of Houstons CD 
The Ultimate Collection was raised 
to the equivalent of almost $5 on 
iTunes in Britain; The Greatest Hits 
was raised to the equivalent of more 
than $3. These changes were reverted by Sunday evening, but Sony 
executives didnt comment until 
Tuesday, when they claimed that the 
price changes were a mistake.
Journalist Dan McDermott reported through Google Plus that 
Net?ix removed Houstons DVD so 
Sony could make more money. Net?ix later denied the claims, stating 
that it had lost the rights to use it at 
the beginning of 2012, an event unrelated to Houstons death little over 
a month later. 
The righteous indignation in response to these actions (misplaced as 
they may have been in Net?ixs case) 
shows that sometimes we need to be 
saved from ourselves. In one sense, 
the laws of supply and demand in a 
free market would seem to encourage a corresponding price hike on 
Houstons albums. What makes us 
uncomfortable with the idea of raising prices in response to her death 
is the implication that Houston is 
worth more dead than alive. 
The American public has grown 
increasingly aware of its role in 
undoing the health of stars. We simultaneously condemn and support paparazzi who put pressure on 
celebrities to live a certain way. In 
Houstons case  which is especially 
jarring considering her battle with 
drugs and alcohol  the tie between 
the publics insatiable appetite for 
commercial products and someones 
death is too much to bear. 
We should condemn price hikes, 
not because they are wrong, but because we are.
Reagan ideals should be candidates theme
KYLE HENSON
The Republican party stands for 
limited government. If nothing else, 
the party should understand that a 
government big enough to give you 
everything you want is big enough 
to take everything you have. While 
all current candidates champion this 
cause, or claim to, no one really understands what motivates people to 
believe in limited government.
People came to this country to be 
free. Whether it was freedom from 
religious persecution, freedom to 
pursue economic endeavors, or freedom to start a new life, most immigrants who built this country came 
from a place that wasnt letting them 
do what they wanted. Our limited 
government ensured that opportunity. Our small government carried 
the promise that, with hard work, 
they could secure a better future for 
their children.
All the bene?ts of limited government went to the average, working 
man. The wealthy bene?ted too, 
and so did the poor, but it was the 
ambitious, hardworking, everyman 
who really gained from being left 
alone. Everyone was able to secure 
a better life because our government 
was small, leaving our economy free 
and prosperous. People could earn 
standing on their hard work, and 
our economy grew, further ensuring bigger, better, and brighter futures. Thats not to say there werent 
speed bumps on the road, but on the 
whole, economic freedom bene?ted 
everyone.
The current candidates dont understand how to pitch it that way. 
Tax cuts for the rich are seen as corrupt and out of touch with the needs 
of society. 
They need to be seen as a reward 
for those who worked and achieved 
the dream, to incentivize people to 
work even harder for the promise of 
the American dream.
The reason why former President 
Ronald Reagan was so successful as 
a candidate was because he knew 
how to pitch Republican ideas that 
are good for this country to the 
working man. He got the economy 
rolling and created millions of jobs. 
He believed that the wealthy should 
pay more in taxes than those who 
arent wealthy. He stressed that 
working families should be supported by being left alone to use their 
money at their own discretion.
The working man will win every election, simply because the 
99 percent is bigger than the 1 percent. Republican candidates need 
to drop the unpopular gay marriage 
and abortion issues and pitch real 
pro-growth, anti-de?cit, and anticorruption reform for the good of 
the 99 percent. Republicans need 
to pitch a limited government that 
lets people run their lives and their 
money as they see ?t.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Consistency necessary with bus fare payments
WILL PENMAN
Port Authority budget cuts are all 
over the news right now. What they 
should really focus on is being more 
consistent with their drivers and the 
public about when were supposed 
to pay.
I moved to Pittsburgh last summer and had a chance to get acclimated to the system. If youre heading toward Downtown, pay when 
you get on the bus. If youre heading 
away from Downtown, pay when 
you get off, unless its rush hour 
(57 p.m.), and then you always pay 
when you get off.
If only it were that easy. Factoring time and direction isnt very 
simple, but you would think that at 
least once you learn it, you can get 
around Pittsburgh with ease. I have 
had a number of bus experiences, 
though, where the driver wanted 
me to pay at an unexpected time and 
then got aggravated with me for not 
knowing.
The more I think about how to 
pay, the more uncertain I get. Ive 
heard that since there is a second 
zone further from Downtown with 
more expensive fare, you pay when 
you get off heading out of town 
to help them know how much to 
charge you.
Perhaps that rule only applies 
to buses that actually go to Zone 2. 
Since I ride the 71B home, which 
sometimes stops in Highland Park in 
Zone 1 and sometimes goes all the 
way to Waterworks Mall in Zone 2, 
that might explain why Im randomly asked to pay when I get on. But 
sometimes I ride the 71D part-way, 
which goes toward Hamilton, but 
Im still required to pay when I get 
off.
If it were just my confusion I 
had to deal with, I wouldnt have a 
problem. But the apparent inconsistencies are compounded by the bus 
drivers surly attitudes toward students. At the beginning of the year, 
their contempt was palpable. 
While it doesnt excuse their behavior, I admit that a lot of us had 
no idea how to ride the bus. Even 
now, though, they often throw their 
hands over the payment machine in 
exasperation and growl, Pay when 
you get off.
With the student population creating a high turnover of bus riders, 
you would think that Port Authority would have payment education 
down pat. However, the Port Authority seems to have taken the opposite course of enduring pesky students until they leave. In response, 
students endure Port Authority, silently resenting being treated disrespectfully and reinforcing negative 
relations.
When budget cuts do take effect 
later this year, one certain consequence is that buses will be even 
more crowded. 
The Port Authority could help 
passengers and bus drivers if it was 
consistent and helpful in applying 
the rules for payment.
Will Penman (wpenman@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Af?rmative action case is step in the right direction
The United States Supreme Court 
decided on Tuesday to try the case 
Fisher v. University of Texas. This case 
will likely be a landmark one, as the 
verdict will decide the fate of the 
ever-controversial college admission 
policy known as af?rmative action. 
Abigail Fisher, a white student who 
was rejected from the University of 
Texas in 2008, is suing on grounds 
that her grades were better than 
those of some of the racial minority 
students accepted into the university.
Whatever the Supreme Courts ?-
nal decision on the case may be, The 
Tartan supports the Courts initiative 
to reassess af?rmative action legislation concerning college admission.
Justice Sandra Day OConnor 
provided the swing vote to set a 
precedent for race-based admissions 
in 2003 with Grutter v. Bollinger, 
saying, We expect that 25 years 
from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary. 
Therefore, many assumed that the 
issue was settled, at least for that period of time.
Yet, af?rmative action in college 
admission has continued to be a 
hot-button issue long after the ruling in 2003. We believe that it is the 
Supreme Courts primary job to set 
precedents, but just as important is 
its duty to follow up on those precedents, to reassess them and determine if they are still necessary and 
effective. By taking on Fisher v. University of Texas, the Court can strive 
to accomplish the latter.
Supporters of af?rmative action 
fear that the Court took on the case 
because the conservative-leaning 
majority  which includes Clarence 
Thomas, who has often spoken out 
against af?rmative action  will 
choose to simply overturn the 2003 
verdict. 
Hopefully, the Court will review 
the effectiveness of race-based admissions over the past nine years 
from a nonpartisan stance, basing its 
?nal decision on how af?rmative action has affected colleges and those 
attending them, and not just on their 
personal beliefs. 
Reevaluating the constitutionality of established laws is necessary to 
maintain and uphold the principles 
of the nation.
Overturned abortion legislation a great compromise
Virginias Republican-controlled 
House of Delegates voted 6532 last 
Wednesday for an amended bill that  
would only require an external ultrasound before an abortion instead of 
requiring an obtrusive trans-vaginal 
ultrasound. 
The previous, more invasive bill 
required women to have a doctor 
use a wandlike device (vaginally inserted) that emits ultrasonic waves 
to create images of the fetus.
This is a successful compromise 
between the pro-life and pro-choice 
sides of the highly debated abortion 
issue. 
When abortion is such a heavily contested topic at the state level, 
compromise is essential to promote 
what is truly important in the debate: womens health.
The House decided to amend the 
bill shortly after Republican Governor Bob McDonnell issued a statement opposing the more invasive 
procedure, according to the Associated Press. 
McDonnell changed his stance after the proposal drew outrage from 
women, pressure from the media, 
and appeals from Republican moderates concerned about the political 
impact.
The invasive bill rightfully incited 
criticism. 
Ultrasounds during early stages 
of pregnancy involve an uncomfortable vaginal probe to measure gestational age, due to the fetus being 
undetectable by normal ultrasound 
methods. 
Democratic Sen. Janet Howell 
said in the Virginian Pilot that the 
bill was mandating rape because of 
these aggressive methods.
At a time when state governments 
are making abortions increasingly 
dif?cult to obtain, it is nice to see an 
abortion bill scaled back to a reasonable requirement in an attempt to 
reach a compromise between both 
sides. 
Those who are pro-choice and 
pro-life will never agree on the fundamentals of abortion, but womens 
health and safety should be a priority 
no matter what.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 27, 2012
A PERSONS OPINION
This Wednesday is Feb. 29, also known as Leap Day. So we asked,
What are you doing with your extra day this year?
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
A neighbor and former alum 
sent me a copy of your coverage 
of Jeff Zaslows untimely death. 
I succeeded him as a former 
Editor-in-Chief of The Tartan. I 
want to let your readers know that 
Jeff Zaslow was an exceptional 
human being and a very unique 
Carnegie Mellon alum. He had 
great impact on campus before his 
professional success.
As a young undergraduate student at CMU, writing and journalism were not in, but that did not 
deter Jeff from forging his very 
unique path. 
He was a problem-solving genius, knowing just how to get the 
best out of the engineers, artists, 
scientists, and actors who worked 
for the newspaper. 
He had a vision about what he 
wanted from his education, from 
life, from friends, from the world 
around him. My good fortune 
came when an English professor recommended that I join the 
newspaper staff to improve my 
writing.
Jeff swooped me up and taught 
me everything, recognizing that 
curiosity and energy go a long 
way. We were ?nishing up the paper one very late night in the basement of Skibo. He and one of his 
good pals cornered me, convincing 
me that I could run the thing! He 
was that way. Always ready to conquer the world, and those around 
him had better strap on our seatbelts and go along for the ride! He 
made all of us who worked closely 
on the newspaper together feel 
like a million bucks. 
His exuberance about campus 
life, ?nding something interesting 
in the most mundane happenings, 
really caught on and he made The 
Tartan into the go-to news source 
at CMU. The relationships we 
forged putting that paper together 
were precious.
When it came time to graduate, many of us landed solid jobs 
as engineers, bankers, consultants, actors, designers  and 
some went off to grad school. Not 
Jeff. He bought an airline ticket 
that allowed him to travel anywhere in the U.S. for the next year 
in search of his dream job with a 
newspaper. So un-CMU! 
We were dumbstruck at his 
sense of adventure, and in awe that 
he was so willing and so genuinely 
happy to take on that kind of risk.
We knew he was something 
special then, but couldnt imagine 
the way he made us feel would be 
multiplied exponentially in his lifetime. 
My tribute to him is that I ?nd 
myself telling my children his story 
and the lessons he taught  to follow your passions, to love life and 
people, and you will light up the 
world.
Jean Pellegrini Pasternak
MCS 1980
Editor-in-Chief, The Tartan 1978-79
Clinging to pennys existence makes no sense
BRADEN KELNER
Junior Staffwriter
President Barack Obama recently 
asked Congress to ?nd a new metal 
mixture for the production of pennies and nickels. This was a response 
to information released by the U.S. 
Mint that it cost the government 2.4 
cents to produce a single penny and 
11.2 cents per nickel as of February 
2012. 
While there may be economic 
bene?ts to ?nding a new metal mixture for the nickel, the same cannot 
be said for the penny. The government should simply discontinue the 
penny altogether.
The U.S. Mint stated that approximately 5 billion pennies were produced in 2011. 
At 2.4 cents per penny, the cost of 
creating these coins was undoubtedly expensive. Even if a new mixture 
for the coins were found, the time 
and administrative cost alone that 
is necessary to produce the penny 
would exceed the worth of the coin. 
With the cost of materials rising, the 
penny will be even more of a liability 
next year, even with the possibility of 
a new mixture.
Even though Time.com writer 
Josh Sanburn stated in his article 
Obama Wants to Make Cheaper 
Pennies and Nickels that a new penny mixture could save the government over $100 million a year, the 
net loss for the government would 
still be large. 
Imagine the savings the nation 
would accumulate if penny production were completely stopped.
The proposal to get rid of the 
penny is even more enticing when 
the history of the half cent is considered. Introduced in 1793, the 
half cent was an integral part of the 
economy. However, its existence was 
short-lived  it was taken out of circulation in 1857. 
The U.S. economy was not negatively affected by the removal of the 
half cent, and the absence of the penny would have the same result.
In his USA Today article Why 
Keeping the Penny No Longer Makes 
Sense, economist Robert Whaples 
debunks the fears of consumers that 
purchases would be rounded upward 
to the nearest nickel if the penny was 
eliminated. 
He asserts that the number of 
times a purchase would be rounded 
up would be about equal to the number of times the price of the purchase 
would be rounded down.
In fact, the removal of the penny 
from circulation could actually stimulate the economy. 
Whaples claimed that the pennys 
absence would save the consumer 
0.025 of a cent per purchase due 
to this method of rounding. With 
millions of purchases made across 
the nation per day, 0.025 of a cent 
could add up to a nice boost for the 
economy.
With countless pennies placed 
in Leave-A-Penny, Take-A-Penny 
trays at retail stores and abandoned 
behind couch cushions each year, it is 
apparent that consumers and sellers 
do not care for the penny as a viable 
currency.
If there are so few who care 
about its existence and its absence 
would help boost the economy, there 
is no reason to cling to this dying 
denomination.
DANIEL COHANPOUR
Junior Staffwriter
Xavier Alvarez, a California native 
who campaigned for and eventually 
won a seat on the Three Valleys Municipal Water Districts Board of Directors in 2007, publicized the ideal 
rsum. 
He boasted an array of military 
honors, the most notable being the 
Medal of Honor.
He continued to boast about his 
accolades as a serving of?cer and 
veteran until he was prosecuted on 
two accounts of falsely stating that 
he had been awarded the esteemed 
medal. 
After he was charged and ?ned, 
he resigned from the board in 2010.
The case was appealed to the 
Ninth Circuit Court, which concluded that although the lies were bizarre, Alvarezs free speech protections had been violated by the mere 
prosecution against his lies. 
Last Wednesday, the Supreme 
Court decided to hear the case U.S. 
v. Alvarez. 
The core of the issue remains, 
however, that freedom of speech is 
protected, and bizarre cannot justify incrimination.
Simply put, legal action against 
Alvarezs lies, and the lies of others 
who falsely claim military honors, is 
unconstitutional.
A Supreme Court decision would 
not only wrap up the Alvarez debacle, but to also serve as a precedent 
for stolen valor cases to come.
 The dilemma at hand is the constitutionality of the Stolen Valor Act 
of 2005. 
This congressional law made it a 
crime for anybody to falsely represent himself or herself, verbally or 
in writing as having been awarded 
military honors of any magnitude.
The law was a direct reaction to the tripling of stolen valor 
cases since the 9/11 attacks, and 
although it is merited and understandable, the legislation is blatantly 
unconstitutional.
Never before has the Supreme 
Court questioned the act of lying 
under these situations. The First 
Amendments free speech clause offers a few exceptions, namely fraud, 
defamation, and perjury. 
Lies, either spoken or written, 
have never been described or classi?ed as exceptions to the First 
Amendment. 
If the lies were to cause a breach 
of the peace, they would be deemed 
constitutionally objectionable. 
In the case of Alvarez, his lies did 
nothing more than re?ect poorly on 
his character and blacklist him from 
the community. 
Lies, in and of themselves, are 
protected forms of speech.
If the Supreme Court were to vote 
in favor of the unconstitutional Act, 
it will transform the FBI and other 
civil investigative agencies into  
as a New York Times editorial titled 
Honor and Free Speech eloquently 
put it  the truth police. 
Thousands of civilians will be incriminated for lying about small and 
minute points of contention if this 
comes to pass. 
This is not the job of the government and, more importantly, this 
was not the objective of the framers 
of our Constitution.
Even Douglas Sterner, a war veteran and staunch proponent of the 
law, is beginning to backpedal on his 
previous statements. 
In interviews with veterans 
groups across the country, he has 
consistently expressed his strong 
support for the Act in order to maintain respect for servicemen and 
women who have actually received 
the awards. 
Surprisingly, there is no government-constructed database cataloging military achievements. A congressional subcommittee is currently 
in the process of planning to create 
a database of American military 
award-recipients. 
This database would prevent 
these lies from occurring and would 
simultaneously weed out those that 
commit these disgusting deceptions.
Action needs to be taken against 
lies of military valor  the respect 
our servicemen and women deserve 
depends on it. However, within the 
con?nes of the Constitution, this 
action cannot come in the form of 
incrimination.
LETTER TO THE EDITORZaslows legacy is prevalent in alumni
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Maddie Stearns
CivE
Senior
I will do more homework, study 
for my exams.
Saviz Mowlavi
MechE
Junior
I would consider it as a normal 
day.
Veda Vadyar
Information Systems & Decision 
Sciences
Junior
Sleep is one of my number one 
goals  maybe go off campus.
Aman Agarwal
Business Administration
Sophomore
Working.
Raphael Segal
MCS Undecided
First-year
Homework. Its CMU.
Trials on fake honors must uphold free speech

---------------------------------------------------

February 27, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A7
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Senior day for the mens 
basketball team signaled the 
end of three Tartan basketball 
careers. Guard John Duhring, 
guard Max Gordon, and forward Joe Kromka all laced 
up for their last college game 
against Case Western Reserve 
University on Saturday. In 
grand fashion, the Tartans 
sent their three seniors out 
on a high note, closing their 
201112 season with a comefrom-behind 7269 victory 
over the Spartans.
The Tartans started out 
with a quick 81 start, featuring a one-handed slam 
by Kromka and threes 
from sophomore forwards 
Christian Manoli and Sean 
Brophy. But any momentum 
they had early in the game 
seemed to dissipate as the 
Spartans unleashed a 217 
run. The Tartans had trouble 
?nding easy baskets as their 
offense became stagnant.
The intensity was missing; we were settling for jump 
shots on offense, not reversing the ball and not attacking 
the hoop, Kromka said.
The Spartans buried the 
Tartans in a 13-point hole 
with 3:32 left in the ?rst 
half, and at the end of the 
half, Carnegie Mellon trailed 
4131.
The two teams traded baskets for the ?rst 10 minutes of 
the second half. At the 8:13 
mark, the Tartans still looked 
up at a 12-point gap, trailing 
6149. 
Then Kromka got hot.
A two-handed throwdown, two blocks, a threepointer, two free throws, and 
a three all by Kromka brought 
the Tartans back into the 
game. With 49 seconds left, 
a post-up by Duhring  who 
converted and drew the foul 
 gave them their ?rst lead of 
6867 since the 11:22 mark in 
the ?rst half.
We hit a couple big shots, 
but it was really just going 
to the line and getting them 
fouls, Duhring said. Once 
we got their big guys out of 
there, there is nobody who 
can guard [Kromka] in the 
post, and he stepped up.
After two free throws by 
the Spartans, sophomore 
guard Rashaun Riley drove 
strong side to weak side, hitting a ?oater off the backboard with 21 seconds left to 
give the Tartans a 7069 lead. 
Case Western missed three 
potential game-winning shots 
before the ball went out of 
bounds and was awarded to 
the Tartans with 0.8 seconds 
left. Kromka was fouled before the ball was inbounded, 
and he hit the two free throws 
to seal the Tartans victory.
Kromka scored a careerhigh 22 points and pulled 
down eight rebounds in his 
last game. Manoli and Riley 
each added 13 points. 
It was awesome, Brophy 
said of Kromkas closing performance. He has a talent, 
and he has put it on display 
a lot this year and he really 
showed what he can do in this 
game.
At the end of the 2011
12 season, the books close 
on Duhring, Kromka, and 
Gordons careers. 
John and Joe will be two 
of my best friends for life, 
theres no doubt about that, 
Gordon said. Other guys that 
have come in the past and 
guys that are currently on the 
team I will always be close 
with.
Regarding Duhring and 
Gordon, Brophy said, A great 
leader, [Duhring] taught me a 
lot. Hopefully I can take some 
of the things he taught me as a 
leader going into the next two 
years. Max [Gordon] is one of 
the hardest workers  when 
you think nobody is in the 
gym, he is in here working.
The Tartans season concludes with a record of 916, 
and 410 in UAA play. But 
this last game will be remembered for Kromkas dominant 
play and how the Tartans sent 
their three seniors out with a 
great win. 
We wanted to send our 
seniors out on a good note, 
Brophy said. We needed to 
bring the same energy we always bring.
Mens basketball concludes 
the season with comeback
Johnathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Senior forward Joe Kromka put together a career game with 22 points.
New York Giants quarterback 
Eli Manning.
Additionally, Manning 
would be playing in the biggest sports market in the 
country. But with the Jets 
comes their boisterous coach 
Rex Ryan. In Indianapolis, 
Manning was given a high 
degree of freedom with offensive play, but Ryan is 
much more controlling of his 
players.
It is possible the Colts may 
end up keeping their Hall 
of Fame quarterback. The 
Colts have the No. 1 pick in 
the 2012 NFL draft, and will 
likely select the University of 
Stanford quarterback Andrew 
Luck. Manning could come 
back and let Luck sit on the 
bench for a few years to gain 
some experience. 
However, the Colts and 
Manning are not on such good 
terms: Irsay has ?red many of 
the people Manning worked 
with, including former coach 
Jim Caldwell.
Wherever Manning ends 
up, he can turn that team 
into an instant contender. 
But what team is going to 
pull the trigger on this highrisk, but potentially high-reward quarterback?
SPORTS COMMENTARYMannings options after Indy
MANNING, from A8

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 27, 2012
SPORTS COMMENTARYPirates acquire starter A.J. Burnett
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The biggest trade the Pittsburgh Pirates have made in 
years brings A.J. Burnett to 
the Steel City. The Pirates have 
sent two minor leaguers  
right-handed reliever Diego 
Moreno and out?elder Exicardo Cayones  to the New 
York Yankees for right-handed 
starting pitcher Burnett. The 
Yankees will take on $20 million of Burnetts contract, 
leaving only $13 million to the 
Pirates.
This trade has Pirates fans 
and analysts reeling  but 
there is an important distinction to make when analyzing this trade. Is Burnett 
going to be the player who 
single-handedly ends the Pirates frustrating streak of 19 
losing seasons? No. Is it certain that Burnett will be as 
effective as he was four years 
ago? No. Nonetheless, this is a 
great move for the Pirates.
On KDKA Radio 93.7s 
The Fan last Friday, Pirates 
pitching coach Ray Searage 
said that Burnett would be 
the Pirates ace. If you look 
at the Pirates starting rotation before the trade  Erik 
Bedard, Jeff Karstens, James 
MacDonald, Kevin Correia, 
and Charlie Morton  only 
Bedard has ace-caliber pitching. The Pirates gave up two 
minor leaguers, who got past 
double-A ball, in exchange 
for a pitcher who can lead the 
starting rotation.
Burnett is only four years 
removed from striking out 
231 batters, and last year he 
struck out 173 in the American League. MacDonald led 
the Pirates in strikeouts last 
season with just 142. It is not a 
stretch to say that Burnett can 
hit that 200 mark again, now 
that he is back in the National 
League. Additionally, he will 
be in PNC Park, a pitchers 
ballpark, whereas Yankee 
Stadium is a batters paradise with its easily cleared 
right-?eld fence.
Pirates fans can hope 
for one of two things. The 
?rst possibility is Burnetts 
re-emergence as a dominant 
pitcher, coinciding with some 
of the young Pirates hitters 
putting up big numbers. That 
could lead to a .500-plus record for the Pirates, and a possible title in a weaker National 
League Central division. The 
other possibility is that Burnett enjoys his two years in 
Pittsburgh, and subsequently 
speaks highly of the team, so 
that other players might be 
more open to join the Pirates 
in the future. 
I understand the concern 
that Burnett struggled in New 
York, as he did not put up the 
numbers he did in prior years. 
Besides the aforementioned 
change of league and ballpark, 
joining the Pirates provides an 
opportunity for Burnett to put 
up solid numbers. The expectations in Pittsburgh are miniscule compared to those for 
the Yankees.
With the Yankees, the assumption is a World Series. In 
Pittsburgh, the season is a glorious success if the Pirates ?nish above .500. The decreased 
pressure will bene?t Burnett. Not everyone is born to 
pitch in New Yorks spotlight. 
Randy Johnson, Kenny Rogers, and Kevin Brown were all 
big-name, dominant pitchers 
who struggled in New York.
If Burnett puts up doubledigit wins and a sub-4.50 
earned run average, he might 
not consider it a personal success. But even if Burnett were 
to only put up such mediocre 
numbers as those, this trade 
would still be a success for the 
Pirates. This trade has made 
the Pirates better, but the degree of improvement is still a 
mystery.
Courtesy of Keith Allison via Flickr
A.J. Burnett struggled with the New York Yankees, but is still capable of striking out 200-plus batters.
Womens basketball ends 2011-12 season at home
KATIE KNOX
Staffwriter
On Saturday afternoon, 
the womens basketball team 
closed out the season with 
a 5743 loss at home to the 
Case Western Reserve University Spartans.
Early on, the game appeared to be evenly matched, 
as both teams struggled to 
get in rhythm on the offensive end. Only 30 points were 
scored between the two teams 
in the ?rst 10 minutes of the 
game.
The Spartans shifted momentum in their favor with 
4:34 left to play in the ?rst 
half. They went on a 133 
run, building up a 10-point 
halftime lead that they would 
not relinquish for the remainder of the game.
The Spartans defense was 
able to clog up the paint and 
prevented the Tartans from 
?nding much success close 
to the basket. This made for 
a dif?cult afternoon for junior forward Emily Peel, the 
Tartans leading scorer and 
three-time UAA player of the 
week, who shot just 25 from 
the ?eld.
Despite being forced to settle for shots from long range, 
the three-point line was kind 
to the Tartans, as four players combined for eight of 17 
from three-point range. However, that was not enough 
to overpower the Spartans, 
whose offense controlled the 
tempo of the game in the second half.
First-year guard Gabrielle 
West was the only Tartan to 
score in the double ?gures 
with 10 points. Senior forward Jennifer Larsen ?nished 
the game with seven points 
and nine rebounds. The Tartans ended the season with an 
overall record of 916 (311 
UAA).
For Larsen and fellow senior, guard Alex Hansen, the 
game not only brought an 
end to the 2012 season, but 
it also culminated two memorable collegiate careers. Even 
though the team couldnt pick 
up the victory, playing their 
last game on their home court 
meant a great deal to Larsen 
and Hansen.
It was really nice to end 
the season at home in front 
of a great crowd, Hansen 
said. Many players dont get 
a chance to end their careers 
that way.
Larsens scoring and Hansens leadership will both 
be missed. Larsen averaged 
7.5 points per game this season and Hansen averaged 
5.7 points per game in the 
200910 season.
Being able to play basketball with Jen and Alex over 
the past three seasons has 
been great, but it has been 
even better to have been able 
to build such great friendships 
with both of them, Peel said. 
Both on and off the court 
they are the hardest, most 
dedicated workers I have seen 
and they have been awesome 
leaders for this team.
That camaraderie is what 
Hansen wishes did not have 
to come to an end.
I think what Ill miss the 
most is just being part of a 
team, Hansen said. Our 
team is really close and it will 
be tough to get used to not 
having that extended family 
to fall back on.
CARL GLAZER
Junior Staffwriter
Peyton Manning, the soonto-be-former quarterback 
of the Indianapolis Colts, is 
caught up in a media frenzy. 
His ?ght to return to the ?eld 
is being challenged by Colts 
owner Jim Irsay, but his departure from the team where 
he made his legendary career 
seems imminent. 
The last example of this 
was the Brett Favre saga 
starting ?ve years ago, when 
the Green Bay Packers decided they wanted Aaron 
Rodgers to be their quarterback and would let the face 
of their franchise walk away. 
Favre eventually went to the 
New York Jets, where he appeared to prove the Packers 
right with his poor play, and 
then to the Minnesota Vikings, who, under his great 
play, came within one game 
of the Super Bowl.
Manning is now in a similar situation. He is coming 
off his fourth neck surgery, 
and any team he signs with 
is taking a risk that he will 
be able to perform near his 
old level  if he can play at 
all. There are currently four 
teams rumored to have interest in Manning: the Arizona 
Cardinals, the Miami Dolphins, the New York Jets, and 
the Colts. Each of these teams 
has strengths and weakness 
that can facilitate or hinder 
his success this season.
The Cardinals have a good 
supporting cast on both offense and defense, but since 
quarterback Kurt Warners 
retirement in the season following their 2009 Super 
Bowl bid, they have been 
desperately looking for a 
quarterback. They traded for 
former Philadelphia Eagle 
Kevin Kolb last year, but he 
has been a dud so far.
If Manning ends up in Arizona, he will be teamed up  
with perennial Pro-Bowler 
Larry Fitzgerald. That combination is a recipe for a highoctane offense. The problem 
is that the Cardinals may 
not want to acquire another 
quarterback after giving so 
much up for Kolb. Moreover, 
Manning is a risk.
The Dolphins have been 
looking for a quarterback 
since Hall of Famer Dan Marino retired over 10 years ago. 
Dolphins fans desperately 
want a new quarterback, and 
Manning is one possibility for 
them. 
Their defense wasnt at its 
best last season, but it is still 
one of the better defenses in 
the league. But their offense, 
even with all its weapons at 
running back and wide receiver, has stalled without 
good quarterback play. The 
question for the Dolphins is 
whether to sign Manning, 
the much older and injured 
talent, or a younger, up-andcoming quarterback.
For the Jets, it all comes 
down to their trust in their 
young quarterback, Mark 
Sanchez. After making strides 
in his play two years ago, he 
regressed last year and did 
not play at the level necessary 
for playoff contention. Playing in New York would give 
Manning a chance to play in 
the same city as his brother, 
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Junior Wade Brogdon grew up playing 
baseball.
Everyone plays baseball in my area as 
a little kid, said Brogdon, who is originally 
from Georgia. Its the most interesting and 
challenging game in the world in my opinion, and thats what keeps me playing. You 
can never reach perfection  it helps you 
deal with failure, and it really prepares you 
for things off the ?eld.
Brogdon became interested in club baseball at Carnegie Mellon in the spring of his 
?rst year at the university. I decided to 
contact coach Claudio to see when a tryout 
would be. He told me to go to the gym 30 
minutes from then, and from that moment 
forward I was a part of CMU baseball, 
Brogdon said.
Brogdons skills have been essential to 
the Tartans recent success. Wade means a 
lot to our team on and off the ?eld. On the 
?eld as our leadoff hitter he will hit .525 
plus, as well as a high number of stolen 
bases which means a lot of runs for us, said 
head coach Claudio Reilsono.
Three years later, Brogdon still feels that 
joining the team was a great choice. He is 
now the president of the club. I enjoy the 
mixture of guys that we have with such a 
wide variety of backgrounds. The thing 
that brings us together and makes us such 
a good team and so fun to be a part of is our 
undying love for the game of baseball and 
our desire to win, Brogdon said.
Brogdon takes pride in his team and 
himself for ?nishing the fall season with 
the best record in Carnegie Mellons recent 
history. Looking forward to next season, 
Brogdon has his goals set even higher for 
his team. [Our goals] are to be perfect and 
undefeated, make the playoffs, and win the 
Club World Series, Brogdon said.
According to Brogdon, between the 
young talent on the club baseball team 
and hard work, these goals are realistic. 
Brogdon also set his personal game to a 
high standard. My personal goals are to 
improve my ?elding percentage from last 
year, and bat over .500, Brogdon said.
Brogdon is one of the all-around leaders of the club baseball team. Wade is the 
prototypical leader. Hes con?dent, outgoing, and great with the new players. Above 
all hes a great hitter and ?eld general at 
shortstop, said senior captain and starting 
pitcher Bennett Poepping. 
Brogdon is a business ?nance major in 
the Tepper School of Business. He explained 
that he would like to be in the ?nancial ?eld 
next year, as a consultant or an analyst.
Being a student athlete is very important to Brogdon. I think I can speak for 
most members of the team when I say that 
it keeps me sane. Being at CMU, you dont 
get a lot of opportunities, if any, to alleviate 
stress, especially for athletes who depended 
on athletics in high school. Playing baseball 
gives me something to look forward to, 
makes my weekends in?nitely more enjoyable, and gives me an opportunity to represent my school outside of the classroom. 
Its very rewarding and makes us proud, 
Brogdon said.
ATHLETE PROFILEBrogdon leading Carnegie Mellon club baseball team
Kate Groschner/Staff
First-year guards Aspen McKeever (No. 14), Gabrielle West (bottom 
left), and Chandler Cau?eld (No. 25) are the future for the Tartans 
basketball team.
It is not a 
stretch to say 
that Burnett 
can hit that 
200 mark 
again, now that 
he is back in 
the National 
League.
See MANNING, A7
Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff
SPORTS COMMENTARYMannings Indy days 
could be numbered

---------------------------------------------------

Distant Worlds
Orchestra performs music from      
Final Fantasy  B4
02.27.12 Volume 106, Issue 20
Sweeney Todd
School of Drama presents classic dark 
musical  B6

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
A hipster conundrum, fart jokes, and the 
Muppets await you in this weeks comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three movies this week in 
McConomy Auditorium.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about ZZK Records and the 
rise of new cumbia artists.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
CO-PUBLISHER Christa Hester CO-PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Juan Fernandez
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about friendships 
and moving in.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Maya Lin 
The sculpture and landscape artist showcases 
a piece representing Pittsburgh rivers.
3
Distant Worlds
The Distant Worlds Philharmonic Orchestra 
presents a Final Fantasy-themed concert.
4
Sleigh Bells
Sophomore album from the noise pop duo falls 
short of their debut release.
5
Sweeney Todd
The Carnegie Mellon School of Drama presents 
this classic dark musical.
6
Legume
The local restaurant finds a home in a new 
location.
7
MOSAIC
Carnegie Mellon hosts the annual gender 
conference.
8
Dogs and Cats
A Warhol exhibit at the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History features domestic pets.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that Pittsburgh is home to the 
United States largest nativity scene? 
10
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
This weeks InsultOscopes poetically knock 
the wind out of your sails.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 02.27.123
Maya Lin focuses on ground, water
Museum showcases piece re?ecting Pittsburghs rivers
An architect, artist, and dedicated 
environmentalist.
This is how the gallery guide at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art describes Maya Lin. Lin is renowned 
for her pieces all over the world, and is known by 
many for designing the Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
in 1981. The artists exhibit, titled Maya Lin, opened 
on Feb. 11 and is housed on the second floor of the 
museum in the Heinz Architecture Center.
Entering the exhibit from the side of the grand 
staircase allows patrons to enjoy an immersive 
experience. Upon opening the glass doors, Lins two 
themes  ground and water  are juxtaposed on 
each side of the hallway, with a view of Lins 2006 
piece Wire Landscape straight ahead.
Wire Landscape was created from lines of threedimensional, darkly colored wire. Large in size 
and hung at eye level, the work naturally draws in 
viewers because of its location and its contrast to the 
rest of the pieces in the exhibit.
To the right of the entrance is the ground-themed 
half of the exhibit, which features a small-scale piece 
of topography and what Lin calls paper landscapes. 
These smaller pieces include Manhattan phone 
books and a Rand McNally atlas that have each been 
cut into in order to expose the inner pages, creating 
a similar effect to the topographical work that Lin 
presents throughout the exhibit. Perched on solid 
white pedestals, but untouchable, these works allow 
for an up-close examination of Lins technique.
Security personnel and signs abound, reminding 
patrons that the exhibits are off limits. This method, 
as opposed to the pieces being surrounded by glass 
or some other covering, makes the exhibit feel more 
interactive. Patrons have the ability to get close to 
the pieces and examine them fully, a detail that is 
much appreciated. Similarly, a lot of variety exists 
in how pieces are presented. Some cover the floors, 
others are staged on pedestals, and still others reach 
almost to the ceiling.
The water-themed half of the exhibit includes more 
individual pieces and covers three different rooms. 
The first room includes a piece mimicking water 
droplets, a large-scale canvas series, and a piece 
made of recycled glass. The second room includes 
three pieces focused on rivers. The final water 
room contains three-dimensional interpretations of 
bodies of water. Lins Caspian Sea appears to defy 
the laws of gravity with its undersized base and a 
surface that seems to jut out at the viewer.
The Pin River  Ohio (Allegheny & Monongahela) 
is one of the highlights of the exhibit. Made of nails 
hammered into a canvas, the piece was created 
specifically for the show and is Lins interpretation of 
the convergence of Pittsburghs famous three rivers. 
The nails cast interesting shadows on the canvas, 
crossing each other and appearing darker in some 
places than others due to the varied quantity of 
nails on the canvas. Beginning at ground level and 
reaching toward the ceiling, the piece is huge and 
very impressive to those familiar with how the three 
rivers come together, despite their different origins.
Definitely not geared toward younger viewers, Maya 
Lin has a lot to offer whether you are an experienced 
art critic or just a student looking to explore a bit of 
culture. The relaxing environment paired with the 
secluded location of the exhibit allows viewers the 
chance to explore for as long as they like and lose 
themselves in the art.
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter 
 
Maya Lin is open until May 13 at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, located at 4400 Forbes Ave.
Courtesy of The Pace Gallery
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Ive been blowing off my 
friend all week, but not 
on purpose. How do I 
not look like a tool when 
I ?nally see them again 
after avoiding them?
Thanks,
Busy All Day, Friend 
Requesting Intimate 
Exchanges, No Dice
Dear BAD FRIEND,
Well, it really depends on 
if the two of you are guys 
or girls. If youre girls, then 
you should know that shes 
probably been complaining 
about you behind your back 
to all your mutual friends. 
When you ?nally hang out 
with her, shes going to be 
angry, but wont say why. 
Youll just have to put up 
with it. Wait until the next 
time she gets drunk, and 
it will either be a tearful 
reconciliation of I luv u 
soooo much, wer BFFs 
4evs, or a lot of crying 
and screaming. Either way, 
pretend like that night didnt 
happen and get back to 
normal.
If youre guys, then dont 
worry about it. He probably 
hasnt noticed. Just buy him 
a beer and youll be good. 
If youre mixed gendered 
friends, then just start dating 
already. Everyones been 
waiting for it to happen. 
You guys are totally Ross 
and Rachel, not Sam and 
Diane. Then, when you guys 
inevitably break up, you 
wont have to worry about 
this anymore.
Or just cut off all contact 
to avoid an awkward 
conversation,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
My girlfriend wants to 
move in with me next 
year. Weve been dating 
for about a year, and I 
like her quite a bit. But I 
just dont think moving in 
together is such a good 
idea. What do you think?
Sincerely,
Seeking Partner Advice 
Regarding Ensuing 
Roommate, Other Options 
Missing
Dear SPARE ROOM,
DONT DO IT. Sorry   that 
was just a gut reaction. Lets 
go through the pros and 
cons. Pros: You get to see 
her a lot more, shell always 
be around when youre 
home, shell always know 
where you are. Cons: You 
have to see her a lot more, 
shell always be around 
when youre home, shell 
always know where you 
are. Plus, if/when you break 
up, either she stays living 
with you and you have a 
miserable rest of the year, or 
one of you moves out and 
you have to ?nd a new place 
to live or a new roommate. 
So basically, DONT DO IT.
Moving in together is about 
two steps removed from 
getting married, and thats 
way too much commitment 
for a couple of idiot college 
students. Youre better 
off living separately but 
still spending a lot of time 
together. That way you 
always have some place to 
go away from her.
DONT DO IT,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About friendships and moving in
Blue Lake Pass, a large-scale topographical piece 
in the exhibit, is made of Duraflake particleboard.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 02.27.12
The Distant Worlds Philharmonic Orchestra presented its 
Final Fantasy concert this past Saturday, where it was 
received by a crowd of hundreds at the Benedum Center 
downtown. Its because of you, the fans, that we are 
here, said conductor Arnie Roth as he took the stage  
and looking around, that was certainly true.
The Final Fantasy series of video games has its own cultlike fan following. The crowd was rife with everything 
from cosplayers dressed up as main characters from the 
series to fans in evening wear, ready for the symphony.
This symphony was a little different from others of its 
kind. The games are known as much for their narrative 
as their music, composed by Nobuo Uematsu. Each 
Final Fantasy title introduces a new and separate 
world, featuring a full cast of characters and epic 
plots. The games are always magical, a little over-thetop, and charming in their treatment of the fantasy 
genre. On Saturday, a tall projector screen served as a 
background to the orchestra, and during each song, an 
accompanying mlange of cut-scenes from the games 
played on the screen, sometimes perfectly synchronized 
with the music.
But even more wonderful was the way in which the 
visuals paid homage to the music, and vice versa. The 
orchestra got into stride with Dont Be Afraid from 
Final Fantasy VIII; meanwhile, a large mechanical war 
machine chased the games protagonists through a 
battle-torn city, down to where a ship waited to take 
them home.
Next was a medley of the overworld theme from I, II, and 
III, which is considered one of the most famous pieces 
of Uematsus repertoire. Fans got teary-eyed hearing the 
nostalgic piece, which has callbacks throughout many 
pieces in later Final Fantasy games.
From there, vocalist Susan Calloway took the stage for 
Eyes on Me. Calloway is best known for her work on 
the theme from FFXIV, the most recent Final Fantasy 
MMORPG. Uematsu has speci?cally requested her 
vocal talents in the past, and it was easy to see why. 
She handled the piece with more ?nesse than even the 
original singer, Faye Wong; meanwhile, the audience 
was treated to an homage of Final Fantasy characters 
Squall Leonhart and Rinoa Heartillys budding romance. 
The couple is a major focus of FFVIIIs con?ict, and the 
choice of this romantic piece was de?nitely a nod toward 
that.
From there, the ?rst half of the concert was a blur 
of beautiful scenes and heartfelt moments; during 
Blinded by Light, the audience witnessed Final 
Fantasy characters Vanille and Sazh sneaking onto a 
train into the city, from FFXIII; in Dear Friends and 
Vamo alla Flamenco, guitarist Shota Nakama played, 
accompanied by violins. The ?rst of these, Dear 
Friends, was interrupted by a bit of mic feedback, but 
the rest of the pieces progressed smoothly, and Nakama 
seemed able to recover well from sound issues.
Chocobo Medley had the audience cracking up, as 
the visuals paid tribute to the lovable yellow birds. 
Chocobos are a method of transportation in the Final 
Fantasy series; much like large avian horses, characters 
can ride and train them. The goofy-looking birds got the 
spotlight during this piece, and it was de?nitely the most 
lighthearted arrangement in the show.
The second half of the show had some of the most 
moving scenes in Final Fantasy history. The Man with 
the Machine Gun followed the character Laguna Loire 
in his military forays with his comrades. Zanarkand 
allowed the audience a quiet moment as Yuna, the 
esteemed summoner from FFX, performed a ceremony 
to pass on the souls of villagers killed at the hands of a 
vengeful deity. Men and women wept around her, as 
cof?ns ?oated silently on the waters surface. Aeriths 
Theme displayed perhaps the most famous scene of 
all: As the character Aerith kneels quietly in prayer, she 
is struck down from behind by the villain Sephiroth as 
Cloud Strife helplessly watches.
The music really hit its stride during Maria and Draco, 
an operatic piece from FFVI. Three soloists took the 
stage: Tami Fire as soprano, Juan de Leon as tenor, 
and Kyle Oliver as bass. These three vocalists brought 
life to a piece which originally wasnt vocalized at all 
 the original game has only lyric text overlaid during 
the melody. The reinterpretation of the original piece 
brought wild screams and cheers from the audience. 
And Terras Theme served as the penultimate climax 
of the concert  a classic favorite for fans of the earlier 
games.
Roth re-emerged from backstage to perform an encore 
following a standing ovation from the audience: One 
Winged Angel. With original lyrics in Latin, the piece 
is dif?cult even for a full chorus to sing in sync, but 
somehow Roth managed to rally the audience. I said 
thered be work involved, he told the crowd with a 
smile, directing participants to sing SE-PHI-ROTH! at 
the correct pitch and timing.
Overall, the show was a respectful and well-executed 
nod to a series that has shattered many walls in the 
video game medium. Roth hinted at the possibility of a 
25th-anniversary tour in the near future, so its possible 
that there may be a tour returning to the city soon.
Katie Chironis | Online Editor
Courtesy of Square Enix
Cecil Harvey from FFIV was featured during Theme of Love.
Distant Worlds performs music of Final Fantasy
Orchestra presents moving pieces to enthusiastic audience at the Benedum Center

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.27.125
Paperhouse
On ZZK Records
The future of music is blasting out of the sound system at 
Zizek Club in Buenos Aires, Argentina. DJs and producers 
are mashing up cumbia (a popular Colombian genre), 
reggae, hip-hop, and electronic music, creating a space 
in which musicians can work with new ideas and giving 
them the chance to show what theyre doing in the current 
music scene.
Zizek Club  arguably the epicenter of the borderline 
avant-garde transformation of the Latin American sound of 
cumbia  has created a whirlwind of energy in just a few 
years, spawning the acclaimed record label ZZK Records.
Established in 2008 by producer Grant Dull, ZZK Records 
now manages 11 new cumbia groups. ZZK belongs to a 
new movement of rhythms born out of cities that are being 
reinterpreted using electronic music to create something 
new, fresh, and fun. Baile Funk from Brazil and Kuduro 
from Angola were popularized by M.I.A. and Buraka Som 
Sistema, respectively, evidencing the rise of this global 
movement of sonic reinterpretation.
The movement is exempli?ed by Tremor, an Argentine trio 
on ZZK Records. Tremor bridges generations, genres, and 
geography through technology to produce its signature 
style. The groups sound is equal parts electronic music 
and native drum. It owes as much to anthropology as it 
does to popular music.
Today, ZZK is home to the psychedelic cumbia of Fauna, 
the experimental beats of Chancha Via Circuito, and the 
hard-hitting cumbia hypnotics of El Remolon, among 
other artists. To experience the ZZK sound, the best place 
to start is its newest release Amazonico Gravitante by 
Argentinian artist Mati Zundel.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
The Black Keys  El Camino
Air  Le Voyage Dans La Lune
Dj Cosm  Time and Space
Dr. Dog  Be the Void
Brain Fruit  1.1
Frank Macchia  Swamp Thang
Twink  Itsy Bits & Bubbles
R.E.M.  Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage, 
19822011
Orange Goblin  A Eulogy for the Damned
Jeff Gauthier Goatette  Open Source
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Reign of Terror disappoints
Sophomore album pales in comparison to ?rst release
Part of what made Sleigh Bells 2010 release Treats 
so enjoyable was the bands seemingly effortless 
juxtaposition of loud, distorted rock guitar and calm, 
airy vocals. Singer Alexis Krauss voice stood out, 
working with guitarist Derek Millers chaos, not 
competing with it. The noise pop duo appears to 
have attempted to do this again with Reign of Terror, 
but the result is an overly loud, unbalanced mess of 
underdeveloped melodies and empty vocals.
Throughout the album, Sleigh Bells merely ampli?es 
their sound instead of adding depth or pushing 
their creativity in song writing. Krauss breathy 
vocals simply dont stand up to the sound of the 
added guitars. The resulting effect is a noise-heavy 
album that lacks interesting melodic content. 
Poorly mastered and over-compressed, any sort of 
dynamic range in the album is lost. While this is a 
stylistic trend for the duo, it makes for a dif?cult and 
exhausting 36 minutes of listening.
The album opens with a live recording of True 
Shred Guitar, featuring Krauss screaming New 
Orleans! What the f**k is up? over heavy guitars 
and cheers from the audience. Setting the tone for 
the rest of the album, Krauss succeeds in building 
energy, but is left competing with Millers guitar 
work.
The album does have some strong tracks. Demons, 
a heavy, anthemic song with a simple but strong 
guitar riff and powerful vocals, stands out among the 
other tracks. The songs lyrics are lacking in quality, 
as with most songs on the album, but it can stand 
on its own. You Lost Me is a dreamy pop ballad 
with catchy vocals; unfortunately, the guitar riff is 
annoyingly repetitive and takes away from Krauss 
simple, easy singing.
While some critics have praised the album for 
showing a more sophisticated approach, Reign 
of Terror is less successful for that exact reason. 
Although the duo might have planed these songs 
more carefully or made more conscious decisions 
about songwriting, the album seems to be trying 
too hard to ?nd the balance that came so easily in 
Treats.
Its hard to deny the catchy melody of Rill Rill, the 
hit song from Treats that you found yourself singing 
along to the ?rst time you heard it. Reign of Terror, 
however, seems to lack such a singular, melodic 
masterpiece. In fact, the album lacks any sort of hook 
to sing along to, leaving the listener disappointed 
and lost in a sea of a half dozen guitars. The charm 
that was all over Treats has all but dissipated into 
the mess of this new release.
The album ends on a much more enjoyable note 
than it begins  but thats not saying much. If 
anything, Reign of Terror serves as a rude reminder 
of the limits of compression. The album pales in 
comparison to the bands ?rst release and would 
perhaps be best to listen to after a few drinks.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of blikeng via Flickr
Derek Miller and Alexis Krauss, better known as the band Sleigh Bells, performing at The Deaf Institute in 
January 2011.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 02.27.12
The infamous Sweeney Todd is currently slitting throats 
in Carnegie Mellons Philip Chosky Theater. The School 
of Dramas adaptation of Sweeney Todd: The Demon 
Barber of Fleet Street played its ?rst performance last 
Thursday to a full house.
This masterpiece features music by composer Stephen 
Sondheim and a libretto by Hugh Wheeler. The story 
centers on Sweeney Todd (played by senior drama major 
Denver Milord), a once-prominent barber driven mad 
after being imprisoned for 15 years on false charges. At 
the opening of the show, Todd returns home with the 
hope of being reunited with his family. However, he 
soon learns that his wife poisoned herself after she was 
raped by the corrupt Judge Turpin (played by senior 
drama major Abdiel Vivancos). Todd swears revenge on 
the judge. The story is a dark one, ?lled with passion, 
mystery, and despair. 
Over the years, there have been several versions of the 
show. It premiered on Broadway in 1979 and has won 
eight Tony Awards. Since then, there have been several 
revivals and productions, including the recent Tim 
Burton ?lm adaptation starring Johnny Depp.
On Thursday, an enthusiastic audience came out to 
experience the musical thriller. This performance was 
a preview of the show  the ?rst performance for a full 
audience.
As the show began, the curtain rose, revealing a 
captivating set. Three large drapes formed walls around 
the stage. A narrow staircase and a table with chairs 
served as the major parts of the set. Several dimly lit 
chandeliers seemed to ?oat above the stage. As the 
ensemble started singing The Ballad of Sweeney Todd, 
Todd made his grand entrance. The jaw-dropping 
opening number set the tone for the rest of the show. 
The staging of the show is a work of art in itself. The 
School of Drama brought in a guest director, Joe Calarco, 
for this production. Working with a guest director 
allowed cast members to have a production experience 
similar to what they will face when they enter the 
industry. It was very nice to have a true professional 
setting, said senior musical theatre major Lucia 
Roderique, who played Mrs. Lovett. [Calarco] brought 
that sense because he wont stand anything else.
The work of scenic designer Brandon McNeel, masters 
student in the School of Drama, is stunning. The 
show has a mysterious look that complements the 
score. The scenic design is accented by senior drama 
student Michael Bergers lighting choices. The lighting 
throughout the show contributes greatly to the tone of 
this production. 
Everyone who is the best in their major is involved in 
this production ... so I think we got the best team to do 
one of the best musicals ever written, Roderique said.
Visually, Sweeney Todd is a smashing success. 
Actors enter the stage from above and below it. Props 
seamlessly ?y in from above the stage. The tall staircase 
is used in a number of innovative ways, providing the 
set for different scenes. This production also exhibits 
a steaming bake oven, a large meat grinder, gushing 
blood, and countless other visual excitements.
The music, under the direction of Thomas Douglas, an 
associate professor of drama, is the heart and soul of the 
story. The orchestra  consisting of School of Music 
students  is conducted on alternate nights by graduate 
music students Matthew Samson and Jan Pellant, and 
presents the music of Sondheim at its best.
In addition to its exceptional creative team, Sweeney 
Todd features a stellar cast.  
Milord performs well in the title role. He is dark, yet 
humane. Milords resonant voice is a good ?t for the 
role and he shines in numbers like My Friends and 
Epiphany. Always at Sweeneys side is the jolly Mrs. 
Lovett. Roderiques performance is stunning throughout 
the show. Her voice is perfect for the role, and her acting 
captures the character completely. 
The evil Judge Turpin is a vital character in the musical. 
Vivancos portrayal of this vile character is very 
satisfying. In his song Johanna, Vivancos delivers one 
of the most intense scenes in the show. This disturbing 
scene can only be pulled off with superb acting, and 
Vivancos does not disappoint. 
At the Judges side is the Beadle Bamford, played by 
senior drama major Grey Henson. Henson presents the 
perfect balance between the malicious antagonist and 
the comedic relief. The audience was charmed by his 
witty performance during Parlor Songs. 
Sweeney Todds ensemble also plays a vital role in this 
production. They hold each scene together, performing 
various tasks throughout the show. Group numbers such 
as The Ballad of Sweeney Todd are very impressive 
thanks to these gifted actors. 
The preview performance of Sweeney Todd received 
a standing ovation from the packed house. This was 
the start of what will no doubt be a successful run. 
The show is ?ercely fabulous, remarked senior vocal 
performance major Katie Grif?n after the show.
I thought that the lighting was wonderful, said junior 
economics major Erika Tang. They made really bold 
choices and I thought it worked really well. 
Zachary Mendez | Junior Staffwriter
Sweeney Todd runs throuh Saturday, March 3. As of last 
Friday, all performances are sold out.
Raise your razor for Sweeney Todd
School of Drama presents dark musical Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street
Courtesy of  Tom Strong
 Senior musical theatre major Lucia Roderique and 
senior drama major Denver Milord play Mrs. Lovett 
and Sweeney Todd, respectively, in the drama school 
production of Sweeney Todd.

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 02.27.127
After moving from Regent Square to North Oakland last 
September, Legume has been busy making a name for 
itself in a new neighborhood.
The move was inspired in part by the size constraint of 
its previous location. The new space seats over 100  
as opposed to just 32 before the move  and the new 
kitchen is larger than the entire old restaurant.
The restaurant has marble ?ooring, which complements 
the art deco light ?xtures and decor. The sense 
of openness highlights the pristine and opulent 
environment, but the spaciousness tends to take away 
from the intimacy of the restaurant.
While it now serves a wider range of customers such as 
students and other residents of Oakland, Legume has 
been able to maintain its previous fan base, and many of 
the original regulars still eat at the new location. With a 
diverse menu that changes daily, its easy to understand 
why people keep going back. The food is expertly 
prepared and there are plenty of vegetarian options.
Last Friday, the albacore tuna tartare had a clean, fresh 
taste. A light starter plate listed under the Nice Things 
to Share section of the menu, the tuna was served on 
a plate with toasted bread and a few garnishes on the 
side. Overall, the dish was enjoyable, though it seemed 
to lack any de?ning ?avorful element.
The second course of the evening was an endive salad 
with pears, blue cheese, beets, and candied walnuts. 
A medley of textures and ?avors, the salad was topped 
with a slightly tart dressing that was a nice balance to 
the creamy blue cheese and sweet walnuts.
The main course  a sweet potato ravioli  was the 
highlight of the meal. The ravioli was topped with 
mushrooms and salsify, a root vegetable. Instead of 
adding a heavy cream sauce to the dish, Legume kept 
it simple and let the ?avors of the ingredients speak 
for themselves. The dish was sweet without being 
overpowering, and the fresh, light ?avor made for an 
excellent dish.
For dessert: Caramel pots de crme with espresso 
meringue and maldon salt. The caramel ?avor was a 
bit overwhelming, creating an unnecessary richness. 
However, this dessert was perfect to share and was a 
nice note to ?nish on.
Ranging from eclectic folk to dream pop, the music felt 
inconsistent with the general vibe of the restaurant. The 
food and decorations would have been paired better 
with cool jazz. The service, however, was ef?cient and 
the staff was knowledgable and professional, making the 
overall experience enjoyable.
Adjacent to the main dining area, the bar at Legume 
hosts regular DJs and bands throughout the week. There 
is live music every Tuesday at 9 p.m.  including bands 
like Sleep Experiments, Armadillos, and Boca Chica  
and local radio legend DJ Zombo plays every Wednesday 
at 9 p.m.
While the price range may be a barrier for many 
students, Legume has an excellent, ever-changing menu 
and is a wonderful place to take a date or enjoy a nice 
meal while your parents are in town.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Legume is located at 214 N. Craig St. and is open 
Monday-Saturday from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. The bar is open 
from 4 p.m. to midnight daily.
Legume ?nds home in new neighborhood
Restaurant features expertly prepared food, maintains dedicated fan base in new location
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
Being Elmo is an award-winning documentary about 
Kevin Clash, the man who controls and voices the 
beloved puppet Elmo. Narrated by Whoopi Goldberg, 
this ?lm contains never-before-seen archival footage of 
the Jim Henson Workshop and a behind-the-scenes 
look at Sesame Street. Featuring interviews with Frank 
Oz (who voices Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear) and several 
other puppeteers, this movie offers a rare look into 
this business and a good long glimpse back at your 
childhood. Fun Fact: Elmos birthday is Feb. 3, 1972.
Being Elmo
Thursday, March 1
8 10 12
Hugo
Saturday, March 3
7:30 10 12:30
Yes, you read correctly: The ?lm that received the most 
nominations for the Academy Awards this year is playing 
at Carnegie Mellon. Directed by Martin Scorsese, Hugo 
follows a boy who lives by himself in a railway station in 
Paris. He befriends the daughter of a toy shop owner 
and becomes wrapped up in a mystery surrounding one 
of his late fathers inventions. Filmed in 3D, this familyfriendly mystery is a visually fantastic movie that has 
repeatedly been called one of the best to come out in 
2011. Fun Fact: This is Scorseses ?rst ?lm in 12 years 
that does not star Leonardo DiCaprio, and his ?rst ?lm to 
be rated PG in 18 years.
The Muppets
Friday, March 2
6 8 10 12
Released just three months ago, The Muppets is the 
?rst ?lm Disney has released about the Muppets in 16 
years. Jason Segel and Amy Adams star as a couple 
that works with the worlds biggest Muppet fan to raise 
money and save the Muppet Theater from being torn 
down. This ?ick started development four years ago, 
when Segel and Nicholas Stoller originally pitched a 
new Muppet movie to Walt Disney Studios. Fun Fact: 
The movie features cameo appearances by many of 
Hollywoods stars, and at least a dozen other cameos 
had to be cut due to time constraints.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.27.1298feature
pillbox 02.27.12
From street harassment to religious gender implications, 
Sundays MOSAIC Gender Conference brought rare but 
important discussions of social gender constructions to 
center stage. Every year, the MOSAIC conference tackles 
issues of gender and explores them in unconventional 
ways. This years conference featured sessions led by 
faculty, staff, students, and guest speakers  each 
exposing attendees to provocative and insightful 
material on the ways in which society constructs gender.
Katherine Bates, a member of the MOSAIC planning 
committee and a senior cognitive psychology major, was 
optimistic about the 2012 conference. Speaking before 
the conference, Bates said, This year we have more 
people registered, more people talking about the issues. 
According to Bates, the target of the conference is to 
get all of us talking about issues that we dont really 
think about.
Organizers and supporters of MOSAIC were enthusiastic 
about the awareness and discussion that the conference 
has raised in years past. I think it does a really great job 
of bringing those issues to campus, said Lisa Tetrault, 
an associate professor of history at Carnegie Mellon who 
specializes in United States womens history.
While MOSAIC, and programs like it, exist to expose 
Carnegie Mellon students to gender studies and issues, 
a vast number of students are unaware that these 
opportunities are available to them. The conference 
aimed to discuss issues that, according to many 
students, are given little attention at Carnegie Mellon. 
With a predominantly technically focused student body, 
the topic of gender issues is often overlooked. We dont 
talk about it as much, Bates said. Its not a real focus 
here.
MOSAIC 2012: Gender Movements
This years MOSAIC conference offered insightful 
dialogue between knowledgeable and provocative 
speakers and engaged students and guests. Sessions 
ranged from street harassment to the stereotypes in Mad 
Men to gender roles in dance movement therapy. Each 
session only had about 15 people in attendance, but 
the smaller numbers created an intimate setting, which 
made more personal discussions possible.
The conference began with T.J. Jourians opening 
keynote speech on the transgender experience, The 
Fluidity of My Journey with Gender and Privilege. 
Jourian, a guest from Vanderbilt University, discussed 
his own personal trials in search of identity and 
the dif?culties of engaging in discussions of self. 
Exclaiming ourselves is like declaring a war, he said, 
speaking of the challenging process of de?ning ones 
identity.
On another personal note, ?fth-year philosophy major 
Jessica Dickinson Goodmans session on street 
harassment addressed how womens ownership of their 
bodies comes under attack on the streets. Drawing 
on her own experience as well as others testimonies 
 including those of guests in the room  Goodman 
emphasized that unwanted attention should not be a 
necessary price to pay for being female. Just because 
Im in a girl body doesnt mean you can treat me this 
way, she said.
Like Jourian and Goodman, Carnegie Mellon Coordinator 
of Gender Programs Jeannine Heynes connected to 
her audience by sharing her personal struggle with 
reconciling her female gender and her religious devotion. 
Heynes session, Thank God, for Gender, explored 
the gender constructions in Judeo-Christian religions 
and the ways in which those constructions dictate our 
lives. Heynes pointed to the traditional white-bearded 
image of God and general resistance to referring to God 
as She as examples of the barriers against female 
authority that religion imposes on secular society.
The program offered several sessions at the same time, 
so guests could select topics that most appealed to 
them. Other sessions ranged from an LGBTQ workshop 
that explored gender nonconformity, led by Carnegie 
Mellon Coordinator of LGBTQ programs and ALLIES 
advisor Meg Evans, to Carnegie Mellon Associate 
Director of Student Life Lucas Christains examination 
of white masculine gender roles. Christains workshop 
broke down stereotypes for a group that is not typically 
considered to be marginalized.
Carnegie Mellon associate teaching professor Chante 
Cox Boyd took a more psychological approach by 
examining social groups and the negative stereotypes 
within them.
MOSAIC: annual conference on gender issues
Campus-wide event discusses gender roles, reveals need for greater emphasis on gender program
Meg Evans, Carnegie Mellon coordinator of LGBTQ 
programs, led an interactive workshop that focused 
on the intersection of gender and sexual orientation.
Courtesy of thegenderbook.com
by Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor[]
The closing keynote address, led by CEO of Good 
Fruit Expressive Arts Angela Tatum Fairfax, actually 
had guests undergo dance movement therapy to 
demonstrate how body movement can be an expression 
of gender.
The personal nature of many of these sessions, as well as 
the eye-opening topics they explored, allowed for very 
open discussions between speakers and listeners. Many 
in attendance shared their own experiences and reasons 
for their interest in gender issues. At times, the listeners 
had just as much insight to offer as the speakers who ran 
the sessions.
This inviting atmosphere was exactly what organizers 
were going for. In the world of gender studies, anyone 
is welcome to come, Tetrault said. In her words, the 
spirit of learning, of growing, and of questioning was 
embodied in Sundays conference.
According to Molly Walter, a member of the MOSAIC 
planning committee and a senior cognitive science 
major, the conference plans its sessions with a diverse 
audience in mind, catering to a variety of interests and 
backgrounds. There is a session for everyone, she said.
But the open invitation to join did not reach all corners of 
campus. The female and LGBTQ presence at the event 
was strong, but the turnout was not representative of 
the entire campus community. A greater diversity of 
perspectives may have further enriched the insightful 
but somewhat one-sided dialogue.
According to Walter, drawing interest from all groups on 
campus remains an important goal for the conference. 
In particular, Walter wishes that more students saw the 
topic of gender as more accessible and universal. I want 
people to know that MOSAIC isnt just for girls or LGBT 
or crazy feminists, she said. I dont think guys should 
be afraid to come.
Campus Awareness
The meager attendance of the conference was in part 
due to students lack of awareness of the opportunities 
to discuss gender issues. The ?rst step is discovering 
that the program exists. Many students are unaware of 
the academic opportunities open to them, and others 
discover them too late.
According to Tetrault, the students who are able to take 
advantage of the gender studies department are those 
who start exploring early. It depends on how lucky you 
are to discover these things early on in your college 
career, she said.
At a technically focused university with many structured 
majors, ?nding time to branch out is often dif?cult and 
undervalued. But exploring academically, Tetrault said, 
is vital to the complete college experience: I think one 
of the most important things you can do when youre in 
college is to take something outside of your interest now 
and then.
Awareness is crucial for the success of programs 
like MOSAIC. Anya Weitzman, a senior Bachelors of 
Humanities and Arts student in art and anthropology, 
said that despite her interest in gender studies, this year 
was the ?rst she had heard of the conference. I wish I 
knew about it before, she said.
After taking Tetraults Body Politics course, a class on 
womens health, Weitzmans eyes were opened to the 
opportunities available to her in gender studies. If she 
could do it over again, Weitzman said, she would have 
studied art and gender studies. Weitzmans advice for 
the organizers of MOSAIC was to advertise more.
Despite the general lack of awareness about the gender 
studies program at Carnegie Mellon, many opportunities 
exist for students. Learning about the universitys 
program and being involved in events like MOSAIC 
provides students with meaningful opportunities to 
discuss the important issues surrounding gender.
Jessica Dickinson Goodman (a fifth-year philosophy major) presented a session emphasizing the importance of 
websites like HarassMap that contribute to stopping public gender violence.
When registering for the conference, attendees 
received a folder with a schedule of the days events 
and other informational material like this infographic of 
the transgender umbrella.
Jennifer Coloma | Staff
Jennifer Coloma | Staff

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 02.27.12
Thanks to a recent partnership between the Andy 
Warhol Museum and the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History, fans of cats, dogs, and Andy Warhol 
can experience Warhols 1976 ode to mans faithful 
companions: the Dogs and Cats print series.
Together, the museums have dedicated the space 
just preceding the Benedum Hall of Geology in the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History to exhibiting 
Warhols varied print work. Dogs and Cats is the 
second exhibit to be held in this space. It follows 
another exhibit that displayed Warhols prints of 
endangered species. The collaborative effort to put 
together Dogs and Cats was organized by Natural 
History director Sam Taylor and Warhol director Eric 
Shiner.
In a press release, the Carnegie Museum of Natural 
History expressed the signi?cance of exhibiting 
these portraits: These works remind us of the 
complex relationships between humans and 
domesticated animals. Although the museum 
claims that examples of this long and intertwined 
history can be found throughout the museum  in 
exhibits like the Walton Hall of Ancient Egypts 
cat mummies and the Polar Worlds depiction of 
Inuit reliance on dogs for transportation  the 
justi?cation is weak.
There simply isnt a lot in the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History that deeply explores the relationship 
of man and domestic animals. While it may not meet 
the expressed purpose, Dogs and Cats does provide 
a colorful passage for museum patrons.
The Dogs and Cats series is among Warhols lesserknown works. The eight silk-screened painting 
set features common house cats and dog breeds 
such as the Great Dane, West Highland Terrier, and 
Dachshund. The series began in 1976, when art 
collector Peter Brant commissioned Warhol to paint 
his Cocker Spaniel named Ginger. Warhol made two 
paintings of Ginger, as well as numerous drawings. 
Brant liked these works and encouraged Warhol to 
do a whole series of cat and dog drawings.
When viewed, a juxtaposition of eeriness and 
vibrant personality comes forth from the depicted 
pets. This eeriness is likely due to Warhols decision 
to use stuffed animals for his ?rst cat and dog 
photos. He took this approach because of the 
dif?culty he initially faced when staging the pets. 
The subsequent paintings Warhol completed were 
done from photographs of cats and dogs and, given 
his predisposition to work from photographs as an 
illustrator, it is easy to understand why the later pets 
are so vibrant and infused with personality.
Dogs and Cats vibrant colors and energetic 
swatches of paint contrast the rigid tension created 
by the exhibits wallpaper. The backdrop of the 
current exhibit, a three-color wallpaper print on 
sand-colored paper, is actually a reproduction of 
the ?sh wallpaper that was created as a backdrop 
for Warhols exhibition Painting for Children at the 
Bruno Bischofberger Gallery in Zurich, Switzerland, 
in 1983. Like much of his art, this backdrop was 
visually engaging because of its hypnotic repetition.
Despite the interesting background, the mundane 
subject matter of domestic pets does not create 
as much excitement as the previous exhibits 
endangered species prints did. As such, the ?sh 
backdrop is an essential element of the curated 
exhibit that prevents the room from feeling too 
sparse.
Despite Dogs and Cats small size as an exhibit 
and its seemingly lofty mission, the exhibit is a 
pleasantly whimsical contemporary experience that 
will add to patrons museum visits. 
 
 
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
Pets reign at Warhol exhibit
Dogs and Cats explores the man-and-animal relationship
Andy Warhol, Dog (Dachshund), 1976  AWF
Andy Warhols Dogs and Cats print series features 
animals such as the dachshund. 
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Feb. 22, 1912
An article appears in a paper in 
Wilmerding, a nearby town, stating that 
Carnegie Tech students acted out of 
line while visiting. The students were 
accused of rowdy behavior and acting 
unfit to be called gentlemen. The 
article urges young men to remember 
not to tarnish the schools reputation 
wherever they choose to go.
50years ago
March 7, 1962
Keeping with the Carnegie Mellon 
spirit of hard work and disapproval of 
wasted time, a sophomore mechanical 
engineer complains in a Letter to the 
Editor that waiting until 8:30 a.m. to 
open the library wastes precious time. 
The author claims that students time 
could be better spent studying than 
socializing outside the building.
25years ago
March 3, 1987
The Tartan continues to follow the 
murder of a student at nearby Robert 
Morris University by a Carnegie Mellon 
student. After being taken into custody, 
the accused confessed to the murder, 
and The Tartan managed to trudge up 
all the scandalous details surrounding 
the case. Student responses to the 
situation appear to be non-existent.
10years ago
Feb. 25, 2002
Diversity is an ever-controversial topic 
in the world of college admissions, and 
one Tartan writer has had enough. In 
a Forum article, he speaks out against 
Carnegie Mellons policy of attempting 
to diversify the campus. He argues 
that skin color and ethnic background 
do not make a student a more eligible 
applicant for admission.
5years ago
Feb. 26, 2007
A newly published book, Steel Your 
Heart, offers readers 250 reasons to 
love Pittsburgh. The review of the book 
points out some favorite reasons and 
urges readers to remember why living 
in Pittsburgh is such a fun experience 
for students. One reason is that 
Pittsburgh hosts the largest nativity 
scene in the United States.
1year ago
Feb. 21, 2011
A collaborative question-answering 
computer project between IBM and 
Carnegie Mellon, fondly named Watson, 
competed and won a game of Jeopardy! 
against two of the game shows most 
successful participants. Watson is 
designed to answer questions by 
interpreting data on its own.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.27.1211
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
  Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.27.12
Hipster Conundrum by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.27.1213
Solutions from Feb. 20, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyVery Hard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro/
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14InsultOscopes
pillbox 02.27.12
1. Fair
2. Composed
3. Take ____ from me
4. Phnom ____
5. Hire
6. Feudal estate
7. Wipeout?
8. Med. specialty
9. Proceed in a leisurely way
10. Butlers love
11. Admit
12. Tendency
13. Handle
21. Filthy money
23. Serf
26. Cougar
27. Bedouin
28. ____ avis
29. Split
31. In a bad way
34. ____ quam videri (North 
      Carolinas motto)
36. Kofi ____ Annan
37. Goes out with
38. Dies ____
39. Fast fliers
41. Cool!
43. Dig out
46. Having a valid will
49. Ethiopian baboon
51. Hot time in Paris
52. Church areas
53. Currency unit in Nigeria
54. Stigma
55. Equipped
57. Clique
60. Impetuous
61. Greek goddess of victory
62. Biblical garden
63. X-ray units
66. Night spot
1. Lands end?
6. Bump into
10. Auto pioneer
14. Like Cheerios
15. Cartoonist Peter
16. You are ____
17. Toss
18. Defense grp. since 1949
19. End in ____ (draw)
20. Umbilicus
22. Economy
24. Mentor
25. Simple shed
26. 3.26 light years
30. Monetary unit of Cambodia
32. Caspian Sea feeder
33. Film spool
35. Fertile area in a desert
40. Semper Fi sayers
42. Correspondences
44. Become less intense, die off
45. Charons river
47. Milk source
48. A Death in the Family author
50. Stops
52. Having a handle
56. Beat it!
58. Security round
59. Person behind bars?
64. Former name of Thailand
65. Addis _____
67. Opera set in Egypt
68. Ashtabulas lake
69. Coup _____
70. Timetable, for short
71. Quartz grains
72. Die Fledermaus maid
73. Coop group
ACROSSDOWN
The Bards InsultOscopes
aries
march 21april 19
[Thou art] a pipe for Fortunes finger to sound what stop 
she please. Hamlet
taurus
april 20may 20
[Thou art] a flesh monger, a fool, and a coward. 
Measure for Measure
gemini
may 21june 21
I think thou wast created for men to breath themselves 
upon thee. Alls Well That Ends Well
cancer
june 22july 22
Thy head stands so tickle on thy shoulders, that a 
milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh it off. Measure for 
Measure
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Your virginity, your old virginity is like one of our French 
witherd pears: It looks ill, it eats drily. Alls Well That 
Ends Well
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Degenerate and base art thou. The Two Gentlemen of 
Verona
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Thou elvish-markd, abortive, rooting hog! Richard III
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
[Thou art] sick in the worlds regard, wretched and low, a 
poor unminded outlaw sneaking home. Henry IV, part I
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
[Thou] shall stand in fire up to the navel and in ice up 
to thheart, and there thoffending part burns and the 
deceiving part freezes. The Two Noble Kinsmen
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.     
Macbeth
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
In civility thou seemst so empty. As You Like It
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You should be women, and yet your beards forbid me to 
interpret that you are so. Macbeth
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.27.1215
MONDAY2.27.12
Interval Monday. AVA Lounge. 9 p.m. 21+
This weekly jazz night will feature a live performance by 
The Interval Trio & Friends. Other DJs will also perform, all 
playing jazz vinyl.
TUESDAY2.28.12
Pariah. 720 Records. 9 p.m.
720 Records will be showing Pariah, the ?nal installment 
in its Black History Month independent ?lm series. 
The ?lm follows the story of a young man in Brooklyn 
searching for sexual freedom while risking friendship, love, 
and family. The ?lm was featured in the 2011 Sundance 
Film Festival.
WEDNESDAY2.29.12
Pittsburgh Speaker Series: Azar Na?si. Heinz Hall. 
8 p.m.
Bestselling author Azar Na?si will give a talk on her life 
as a secular woman in Islamic Iran. The talk will include 
stories from her memoir, Reading Lolita in Tehran.
THURSDAY3.1.12
River City Brass: Fabulous 50s. Carnegie Music Hall. 
7:30 p.m.
River City Brass will play classic music from the postWorld War II era, including popular rock songs like Rock 
Around the Clock and La Bamba.
Oberhofer. Andy Warhol Museum. 8 p.m.
New York indie pop quartet Oberhofer will perform at 
The Warhol.
FRIDAY3.2.12
Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk. Fifth Floor, 
Hunt Library. Through June 29.
Featuring native wild?owers of Pennsylvania, this 
exhibition is a collaboration between the Hunt Institute 
and the botany department at the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. The exhibit includes herbarium specimens 
and 36 watercolors by Richard Crist, with a focus on 
endangered and rare species in Pennsylvania.
Unblurred. Penn Avenue Arts District. 6 p.m.
On the ?rst Friday of each month, various galleries in 
the Penn Avenue Arts District (48005500 Penn Ave.) 
showcase a variety of artwork and performances. This 
Friday, National Book Award-winner and Carnegie Mellon 
professor of English Terrance Hayes will be hosting a 
poetry reading at Voluto Coffee.
Carmelita Tropicana. The Andy Warhol Museum. 8 p.m.
Cuban-born performance artist Alina Troyano (Carmelita 
Tropicana) will show a combination of two works: 
Homage to Jack, a piece about her ?rst encounter with 
the godfather of performance art Jack Smith, and 
Ole/Ghost, a story about lost love and obsession.
SATURDAY3.3.12
Caravan of Thieves. Club Cafe. 7 p.m.
Gypsy swing and pop band Caravan of Thieves will 
perform. The band creates a mixture of pop and balkan 
folk by using a variety of instruments, including upright 
bass, violin, and acoustic guitar.
90s Nite. Belvederes. 9 p.m. 21+
This installment of the monthly series will feature 
Belvederes resident DJs Thermos and Sean MC. Video 
projections will be provided by local artist Neil Henke.
ONGOING
Intimate Science. Miller Gallery. Through March 4.
The ongoing exhibition showcases interdisciplinary 
artists who incorporate science and technology into their 
creative processes, as well as scientists who use their 
technology and resources to create art.
About Face. The Andy Warhol Museum. Through 
May 13.
New York photographer Arne Svenson created a series of 
three-dimensional, large-format portraits in collaboration 
with The Warhol. The portraits are mounted on the wall 
and ?xed open at a 55-degree angle, so patrons can 
view the neutral portrait from one angle and see an 
accompanying portrait of an emotional motivator from 
another.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Fox Chapel home for sale 4 bedrooms, 4 
baths; cathedral ceilings; 2 ?replaces; 2 car 
garage. Mother-in-law suite with separate 
entrance; in-ground pool; 1-1/2 acres. 
Easy access to Oakland, Squirrel Hill, and 
Pittsburgh. $550,000 for sale by owner - 
412/370-0084.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.27.12
Courtesy of Liana Kong
Carnegie Mellon a cappella groups The Originals and Counterpoint competed in the International 
Championship of Collegiate A Cappella (ICCA) last Saturday at Pennsylvania State University. Each 
group performed a 12-minute-maximum choreographed set. Soloists and ?rst-year music majors 
Ethan Crystal (above) and Stephen Murphy (below) helped The Originals receive second runner-up in 
the competition. 
a cappella.
