HEAR REV. KERR, 
CHAPEL, 
THURSDAY
THIEL GAME 
CARNEGIE FIELD 
SATURDAY
VOL. XVIII. NO. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSbURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1923
SPECIAL TRAINS 
TO CLEVELAND 
FOR THIRD GAME
Students Get Opportunity to 
Accompany Team on 
Trip One Week From 
Saturday
ROUND TRIP $4.75
INDUSTRIAL ASSEMBLIES 
AT THE FOUR COLLEGGES
SCHEDULED FOR TODAY
Margaret Morrison.
Assembly, Tuesday, 11:30 Miss 
Breed will talk of her trip to Europe. \ 
College of Engineering.
Assembly, Tuesday, 11:30 in Room | 
209 Science Bldg.
College of Industries.
Assembly, Tuesday, 11:30, Room 
104. Organization meeting and busi
ness discussion.
College of Fine Arts.
Assembly, Tuesday, 11:30, Little 
Theater.
REGISTRATION 
TOTALS REACH 
TWO THOUSAND
t.:GIRLS GLEE CLUBAre you going to Cleveland? If not, 
why not? There are a dozen reasons ji  jr t~*pi AlOYY/ OT A \TO
why you should go and not one why j JNcW L LAINu
you shouldnt. Support your team. ____________
Bring fame to Carnegie Tech.
From a financial viewpoint. The 
cost of a round trip fare will be $4.75.
Last Year's Leader Mr. Riehl 
Again Being Sought to 
Direct WorkThis is an exceptionally low rate.
Take advantage of it.
Any student in Carnegie can, by a j 
little sacrifice, he in a position to buy | In anticipation of the coming seahis ticket. As tor eatiDE. The Clave-: sontbe niaiageiof the Girls' Glee 
,, r>,  , . , , : Club has been hard at work this sum-land Clan is working on mans to feed i , . . - -! mer, making arrangements for the 
the crowd at a minimum cost. Details J concerts that are to be given by the 
will be in the next issue of the Tar-, Glee Club and the Stringers, in near
tan. j
Cleveland is the fifth largest city iu 
the United States and is considered 
to be one of tne most beautiful. Have
by communities next winter. The 
club is to be directed again this 
year by Mr. Edward Riehl, who was 
so successful in his last years efforts.
Lenore Davies, former accompanist
Advanced Standing Given to 
Many Who Come Here  
More Than Seven Hundred 
New Students Registered
LOCAL Y. M. C. A. ANNOUNCES 
SWIMS AT SCHENLEY HIGH
EACH THURSDAY EVENING
The Carnegie Tech branch of thp 
Y. M. C. A. announces that they have 
secured the Schenley Ugh Swim in in 
Pool for the use of Carnegie students 
each Thursday evening from 7 p. m. 
to 8 p. m. All students are urged to 
take advantage of this opportunity. 
The weekly swims will he held under 
the direction of the local student V 
M. C. A. branch.
PLANNING NEW MYSTERY TEAM FROM OHIO 
STUDENT BANK SET BACK BY TARTAN PLAID 
FOR CARNEGIE IN INITIAL BATTLE, 32-12
ENGINEERS DECREASE
STUDENT Y DRIVE 
BEGINS OCTOBER 9
Plans Being Developed to Skibo Machine Early Solves Toledo
Organize System Which .Defense and Scores Handily m Per-Will Enable Students to 
Cash Checks at School
The actual figures for day registraAbout 250 Workers Selected 
tion have not yet been announced, but ! 
unofficial predictions, based upon the j 
number granted admission, the nu:nj 
ber passing technical tests, and some [ 
actual registration figures, are that ; 
the number exceeds two thousand, j 
Sbme statistics which follow here ar
to Call Personally on 
Every Student
The third annual Y. M. C. A.meuiTuosafter
you been there? Dont you believe I for the Glee Club and saxaphone 
that it is well worth while to take an | player for the Stringers, will be sadly
opportunity such as is offered, thereby 
killing two birds with one stone. The 
game is the big show but the city it
self is certainly an added attraction. 
We want the city of Cleveland to 
know that Carnegie Tech is there 011 
October 13. The only way to do this 
is to have the Kiltie Band with an 
orderly crowd consisting of 100 per 
cent of the student body marching 
behind them.
- The preliminary tickets are now 011 
sale. If you cant buy the full fare 
now buy a preliminary ticket and 
help the boys who are managing the 
trip. You CAN afford it and it will 
be the one big football trip this year. 
If you dont think that it is worth the 
cost stop to think for a few minutes 
whether or not the varsity men .be
lieve . the game to be worth while. 
What is your sacrifice compared with 
theirs?
Detailed information as to the time 
of leaving and exact cost of the fare 
will be published on the campus and 
in the next issue of the Tartan. From 
now on let the campus by-word be 
Yes, we are going to Cleveland.
New Marking System 
Requires More Q. P.s
missed by these two organizations, but 
it is hoped that somewhere in Tech, 
they will be able to find her equal; 
as yet, she has not been located. Vir
ginia Wilson; who played the xylo
phone for the Stringers, is not expect
ed to return to school and her place, 
too, will be a hard one to fill.
The itinerary for the clubs has not 
been definitely decided upon. It is ex
pected that sometime during the sea
son, the following communities will 
be visited: Sewicldey, Brushton,
Munhall, Bellevue, Clairton, Butler, 
Homewood and Greensburg. As an 
innovation, one overnight trip is be 
ing planned.
Any girls wishing information con
cerning tryouts or membership for 
(Continued On Page Four.)
bership drive will begin next 
of interest, showing the distribution ! October 9, Immediately
among the various colleges. i th; dismlssal of tho vrious asscm.
The greatest increase of enrolment ! bUes. A group o two hundred and
lias been in the College of E ine Arts | nfty men has been' organized to canwhere the total is 525. exclusive of; vass the schooi, and it is the aim of 
special and part-time -students. Mar-; committee heads to have evo^y* 
garet Morrison and Engineering tie j studont in the' school receive a^perfor second honors with an enrolment' gonal sollcitation to joill lhe -y.- 
of 450. In fairness it should be said, ... . ..
however, that no Freshmen are en-1 s beeina the third year ol ho 
rolled in the Colley of Engineering ; existence ol the Ji. M. C. A. on the 
proper. The consolidates, class of Carnegie Tech Campus and Mr. 1!. 
Plebes in Industries and Engineering vDi",|s' I*' secretary of the "\. 
numbers about 255 regular and sixty | stales that the aim of tho campaign
irregular Freshmen. Upper classmen j s to enroll every student on the
and short course men of Industries to-; Campus in the organization. I lie 
tal over three hundred. ! year of tho "Vs" existence horo
The large number of advanced i 1W . membership iwto of thlrstanding students entering this year <*-tl'ree and one-third ll.e next
is also of interest. Many colleges in >0 percentage was Increased to
the various parts of the country contorty-five. A one hundred per cent 
tribute their annual quota of upper. membership Is desired tills yenr. 
classmen to Carnegie and they have P. F. Schucker has charge of tho! 
not failed this year. About 125 stilSoliciting Committee of all three 
dents have entered under this classl-1 schools. Ho has selected as Ills usficatlon as follows (approximate) | slstahts to head the committees of 
Arts, 45; Engineering, 40; Margaret, each school tlio following men: K. 
Morrison, 29: and Industries, 10. T. Davis of the Engineering College,
Oliicials believe that the new stuM. A. Brcao of the Arts College, and 
dents aro in general of a better pro.loo Davis of tile industries College, 
pared class than former years have Heading the various classes In the
SUCCESS IS ASSURED
iod  Visitors Score Twice 
On Tartan Fumbles
Buy Your Thistle Now
While You Have Money
Up to date, the results from the 
first sales campaign for the 1924 This
tle have been very satisfactory. No 
statistics are available as yet, as new 
subscriptions are constantly being re
ceived. The board advises that pur
chase 01* deposit be made on the book 
as soon as possible while the students 
I still have the money. Later in the 
I year when the class dances and other of | functions come along, the money will 
not be so plentiful. So spend your 
money in the good cause while you 
____________ | have it.
The new marking system which will j The pictures of the class groups 
go into effect this year does away with j will be taken in the near future in orall deficiencies and provides only j der to take advantage of the good 
Quality Points. The term Quality | weather. Notices will be posted in 
Points will be used from now on inplenty of time, and the board asks
stead of the former points for qual-j that everyone come out with his or
brought to Carnegie. The same thing 
is thought about the Freshman class 
for which Col. Day, who has it in 
charge, lias great hopes. The Fresh
men are distributed as follows: Arts,
stparate colleger are: Engineering....
Senior, M. S., Downes; Junior, Don 
Gardner; Sophomore, Joo Seaman; 
ArtsSenior, Couse; Junior, Kredol; 
Sophomore, John Gilbert; Freshman,
ToAffect Classification 
Carnegie Student
230, Engineering, 240; Industries, 35; j Coll. IndustriesSenjor, \Veppner; 
and Margaret Morrison about 190,1 Junior, Zinn; Sophomore, Sandburg, 
making a total of about seven bun\ Engineering and .Industries Ereslidred Freshmen. J men will be cove/od b>' Monro. NonTho Veterans Bureau which last Decree, IndustriesEirsi Year, Vogel;
year had 180 students here reports a j Second Yenr, . EicJielberger.
(Continued on Page Three.) Each section of each class will bo
---------------------------------------------------headed by one man who will seloct
several assistants so that there will 
be one worker for every 'eight men 
in school. The entlro body of can
vassers will meet together at *1:30 p. 
in., on Thursday ol this week and at 
a dinner on Monday evening of next 
week. At these two meetings plans 
will be complotod to launch the 
most successful memberfjhlp cam
paign that tho local Y" has over 
attempted.
The student Y. M. C. .A. stands Cor
SORORITIES HAVE NEW 
POLICY FOR RUSHING
ity.
As explained in the 1923-24 White 
Book, a final grade of A carries 6 
points, B 5 points, C 4 points, and so 
on. Freshmen must obtain at least
her class in order that this part of 
the work can be completed without 
loss of time;
The views in the Thistle this year 
will differ from those of the preced150 quality points, and upper classmen j ng books in that the view section will 
at least 175 quality points in each sebe taken with an idea of obtaining the 
mester. iStudents are classified into j most artistic results instead of mereA now policy will be initiated this I 
year in the College of frlne Arts rej 
garding girls sororities'.
Last year the rushing period ex-1 
tended a short time up to tho Mon-1 
day before the Thanksgiving recess, j 
when there was a period of silence., 
All bids were then given out after j 
| the return from the Thanksgiving va
cation. According to the new policy, 
no bids will be given out by the throe 
sororities, The Beetle, Beta Pi, and 
Alpha Kappa Psi, until Qualification 
Day. The usual rushing period and 
period of silence will take place short
ly before Qualification Day. During 
the period of silence there will be no 
personal contact between the sorority 
girls and the rushees. All names will j 
go through Dean Browns office.
service and in order to function 
properly and to serve the greatest 
possible number, the association 
must, have the -financial and moral 
support of practically every student 
in the school.
MODERN EQUIPMENT 
FEATURE OF NEW GYM
245
the following groups according to the 
number of quality points they obtain.
Honor A Group324 to 270 
points.
Honor B Group269 to 
points.
Group C244 to 175 points.
Group D;174 to 150 points.
Group E149 to 125 points.
Group F124 to 100 points.
Group R00 to 0 points.
Group D comprises students who re
ceive warning, but are eligible to ath
letics and other student activities.
Group E comprises students who are 
not eligible to athletics and other stu
dent activities, and who receive a se
rious warning.
Group F comprises students who 
may remain in the Institute only by 
virtue of favorable individual action 
of the Curriculum Committee.
Group RDropped, without re
course.
CARNEGIE STUDENTS 
INVITED TO MEETINGS
The Teknon Club of the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church on Amberson 
avenue will meet Thursday evening, 
October 11, at 6:30 p. m., in the base
ment of the church. Reports will be 
made of the conference that was held 
during the summer, and a very inter
esting time is assured.
Dr. Kerr will outline the course of 
work for the ensuing year, which will 
include Bible study and research 
work. Social meetings will also be 
held from time to time for the young 
people. Students should start the new 
school year right by making every 
possible effort to attend these meet
ings and get a thorough understand
ing of the purpose of the club.
LADY"
Yank: Why do you call her Ches
terfield?
Al: Shes mildbut she satisfies. 
The Gold and Black.
ly showing the different views. No 
attempt will be made to get the whole 
building in one view.
Instead pictures will be taken which 
will show trees and foliage; unusual 
views of the building; and particular 
attention wll be paid to the shadows. 
By a little more work in this line, it 
is hoped to improve the section of the 
book.
Remember! The Board is still open 
for new ideas; and get your book paid 
for while you still have the money.
REGULAR TIME FOR MEETINGS 
SET BY INDUSTRY JUNIORS
The Industries Junior class
The new gym iB well under way and 
promises to all the expectations of 
the Athletic Board. Some of the in
teresting features will be a large club 
j room for girls, another for men, sepalast| rate showers for pool and gym, a numThere is a possibility that the long 
felt need for a Student Bank on the 
Carnegie Campus is to be fulfilled.! 
This matter is one which has boon up 
before the school several times, but 
nothing concrete hn$ ever developed.
In 1916 the Board of Trustees authi 
orized Mr. Heyl to organize a bureau, 
which was to accommodate students | 
by cashing their checks. However, 
due to the Avar, this plan fell through 
and no attempt was over made to re
vive it.
At the present time Mr. Iioyl ac
commodates the students living in the 
dormitories, by cashing checks not ex
ceeding the amount of tho Dormitory 
Breakage Deposit of ten dollars. The 
checks of students not living in tho 
dormitories are accepted for collec
tion.
This system is not entirely satisfac
tory. and for this reason President 
Baker is endeavoring to find a more 
concise and business-like way of tak
ing cure of the students along this 
line.
1-Ie plans to givo. the students tho 
same service that the regular' bank
ing institutions do in cashing chocks. 
At tho present time a plan is being 
formulated, tho details of which will 
bo announced at some later date.
It Is roasonable to believe that such 
a plan would meet with tho instant 
approval of the student body. Numorous other schools have tried the Stu
dent Bank System and particularly 
Columbia has proved it a great suc
cess. There is as much, if not inoro 
demand for such a system In this 
school. Tho student at the present, 
time finds It almost Impossible to get 
to the bank during banking hours 
throughout tho week.
Tho plan, if developed and put; n 
operation; will 'Vioiid Live -hearty sup
port of the entire student, body, so 
got behind this drive for a Student 
Bank.
REVEREND KERR LEADS 
CHAPEL THURSDAY 12:51)
ROBERTSON-BRUMBAUGH STAR
SECOND FOOTBALL 
DANCE SATURDAY
Institute chapel conducted by the 
Y. M. C. A. will start on Thursday, 
October -1. In the Arts Theater.
Sorvlces will continue from 12:511 
to 1:20 p. m. Dr. Hugh T. Kerr of 
tho Hhadysido Presbyterian Church, 
will be tho spoaker.
Chapel oxorcisos for tho last few 
years hare boon very Intorostlng and 
instructive and anyone Interested hi 
instruction alongroliglous linos, should 
attend.
Speakers for those occasions are 
tho most prominent among Pittsburgh 
ministers and tho large attendance 
at last years chapel exercises proves 
their ability to conduct interesting 
meetings.
NOMINATION MEETING HELD
BY ENGINEERING JUNIORS
Tuesday decided to set Thursday at | ber of office rooms on the first floor
12:30 as th time for the holding of 
future class meetings. Two days no
tice of meetings Is to be given.
The meeting Tuesday was held pri
marily to organize the class for the 
year and little business was trans
acted. A new scheme for doing
for instructors and physical examina
tions, and special rooms for corrective 
exercise. The corrective rooms are to 
be furnished with all modern equip
ment for boxing and wrestling arid 
other physical training apparatus.
The pool, which is to be seventyTHISTLE BOARD MEETING
THIS NOON IN M. M.
There will be a meeting of the 1924 
Thistle Board today, at 12:30 in Room 
101, Margaret Morrison Building.
All members of the Board are urged 
to be present if it is at all possible, 
as several important questions are 
taken up which must be settled1 soon.
away with class dues was brought up five by thirty-five, will be graded from 1 
I and approved. Officers of the class i a depth of four to ten feet. Seating ; 
' are: President, Alfred S'. Andrews; j space will be provided around the 
; vice president, M. D. Kallfelz; secre-; walls.' 
tary, Clifford Zinn; treasurer, Tom The girls gym, on the Woodlawn 
Donahue. j (Continued On Page Four.)
At the first meeting of tho Junior 
Class of the Engineering College, 
nominations were made for treasurer, 
vice president, and senate representa
tive, due to the transference of Gil
bert to the College of Fine Arts and 
Scrimgeour to the College of Indus
tries. The nominations:
TreasurerR. F. Riegeimeier, F. C, 
Smith, V. V. Senkus, M. R. Robinson, 
J. A. Funkhouser, F. D. Rossini.
Vice PresidentC. H. James, J. 
Schuckert, D. A. Gardner, M. D. Heer.
State RepresentativeJ. B. Whit 
man, N. C. Weser, R. F. Riegeimeier, 
F. McClelland, T. L. Bleber.
ROBERTSON OFF FOR TOUCHDOWN
SOPHOMORE ENGINEERS
NOMINATE FOR OFFICES
The Sophomore class of the College 
of Engineering nominated men for the 
offices of President and Senate Repre
sentative at their meeting last Tues
day. The election is necessary be
cause of the absence from school for 
the present semester of Jas. T. O'Con
nor, who was elected president of the 
class last spring. The nominations: 
President 
John M. OConnor, F. W. Cook, C. 
E. West, L. E. Smith.
Senate Representative 
C. R. Wilson, P. E. Meyer, Paul 
Bowron.
FREE TICKETS TO BE
GIVEN TO STUDENTS
Free admission tickets to the Inter
national Art Exposition, will be given 
to all students who apply at the 
Deans office, Central Building. The 
Exposition will be held at Motor 
Square Garden, Pittsburgh, from Octo
ber 8 to the 12th.
Series of Dances to be Held 
in Union After Each 
Home Game
There aro always at least two 
series of events to. look forward to 
in tho fall. First in importance is, 
of course, the football gameses
pecially' those on tho homo scheduleThis year wo have a good homo 
schedule with Thiol, Pitt, Lehigh 
and Notre Dame yet. to play. After j 
tho gamos we huvo another thing 
look forward to. Each yearj 
dances have boon hold in the Union 
following all tho home games and 
iach year these dances have gained 
in popularity.
Tho first dance of this soason was 
hold last Saturday. Tho usual good 
crowd was on linnd for tlio opener 
for which the 'Partan Sovon provided 
tho music. Tho danco lasted from 
about, nino oclock until nearly mid
night.
lie second danco will be glvon this 
week 'following the Thiel game. The 
place, tim and. tax is the saiiio(Continued On Pago Four.)
Rules For Sophomore and 
Plebe Bao.oue.t Effective
Tho usual regulations regarding tho 
Soph-PIebe Banquet will bo In effect 
thin school yoar. They are as follows:
I. The banquet shall bo hold on 
Friday or S'aturday night or on a 
night preceding a holiday,
;, The Plobo banquet shall bo hold 
sometime between the end ol' football 
soason and the first of tho second 
semes ter.
1$, Tho place of banquet and all 
activities having to do with tho ban
quet shall bo confined to a radius of 
fifteen (15) miles of tho school.
-I. A class officer shall not under 
any circumstances miss more than ono 
day of school prooodlng tho day of 
tho banquet.
5. There shall bo no interference 
with registration cards.
(5. There shall bo no Interference 
with organized recitation classes,
BIG PEP MEETING 1:00 P. M.
FRI. KNOW SONGS AND YELLS
There will be a big pep mooting in 
front of the Arts School on Friday 
at 1:00 p. ni. Tills session will last 
just 20 minutes and will be full of the 
old-time snap. Be prepared on all 
the yells and songs, and lots make 
these meetings Improve as the sea
son goes on.
Talk, eat and sleep tho Cleveland 
trip, and in the meantime, save your 
Blieckels.
Fortune and the weather man 
smiled on Carnegie Tech last Satur
day and the Plaid football season was 
ushered in with a 32 to 12 victory 
over the long heralded mystery team 
from Toledo University.
And the Ohio boys looked myste
rious indeed as they came out and 
ran off a few signals before the con
test. Stalwart men they were and 
the grim aspect of the jot black jer
seys, added to the lack of knowledge 
concerning their ability, conjured un
pleasant pictures in Lhe minds of 
many Tartan enthusiasts.
Then a few minutes after the start 
of the game, all of the shroud of mys
tery was wiped away as the Skibo 
line swept, down noarer and'ever near
er the enemy goal line. The one 
thing that left a bad tasto in tho 
mouth was the fumbling op the backs, 
which in turn was helped along by a 
little faulty passing.
But the loss said about that the bet
ter. Tho uncanny ability of tho visi
tors to take advantage of the breaks 
deserves mention, however, and tho 
Toledo boys dosorvo credit for play
ing a clean, courageous game of foot
ball. They lost because their attack 
was not as varied, their co-ordination 
not as porfoct, as that of the Tartans. 
But fighting spirit and courage they 
lacked not.
Caruogld scored first early In tho 
gamo, after a sorlos of end runs and 
lino thnuit,h by Robertson and Brum
baugh. With tho ball on Toledo's 10- 
yard line, Brumbaugh took tho ball 
for another gain of four yards, and 
after Jimmy Robertson had made a, 
fruitless attempt at right tackle, 
Chester again took.tho ball and car
ried' It qvor J.I10 lino on a thrust 
through center. The 'bull was loosely 
handled on tho snap-hack and Com
fort failed to kick goal. Tho period 
ended with no further scoring.
Tho second stanza saw a touchdown 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Theatre Tickets Will 
Be Given Out Soon
Special Nights Set For the 
Alumni and Students
students will have ono night sot. 
aside for each different performance 
of the Drama Deportment of tho Col
lege of Fine Arts when tickets will bo 
available to all students who doslro 
them. All student tickets will bo dis
tributed as has been the custom at 
the Director's office In tho Collogo of 
Fine Arts. A notice on tho Bulletin 
Board in tho corridor outside tho Di
rectors ofllco will notify students of 
tho time tickets are obtainable.
The Alumni of Carnegie Tech will 
receive their llckots for Alumni nights 
through the Alumni office In the Cen
tral Building. The Alumni office sends 
invitations to the names now on their 
mailing list. Tickets will be sent? 
when the invitations are roturned 
with a self-addressed stamped en
velope.
The first play to be given by the 
Drama Department this season is 
scheduled for about the third week in 
October.
Faculty to Buy Some Dogs; To
Lead Students Through the Fogs
By DON GARDNER 
(Licensed Vendor.)
Egypt may have her truncated 
cones, Syria her mosques, Slieepsliead her crooks, London her fogs, 
but Pittsburgh soots us all. Last 
week like a beer from behind the bar 
came a cloak of inpenetrable dark
ness, covering tho earth and blotting 
from view all the beautous creations 
of Nature. Not only did it hide them 
from view, but its ravishes were dire, 
immediate, and complete. The sweet 
young things, bedecked as is their 
wont like the lilies of the field, were 
In sorry straits ere their arrival al. 
various and sundry 8:30's. Dark 
black splotches on school girl com
plexions, dirty necks and ears, and 
general dishabille Avere tho ear marks 
of the collegiate maiden.
But. that wan tho least worry of tho 
seekers after education. Hookers thoy 
became In the real sonno of the word, 
for they had difficulty in locating the 
portals of their Alma Mater. Tho 
Inky blackness of the precipitated col
loidal fog particles (O. K.Chem. 
Dept.) made seeing an utter impossi
bility. Not that any one wanted to 
find his way to school, the difficulty 
lay in finding his way home after he 
had left the front door. Duquesne 
University and Curry College, educa
tion dispensers located in the down
town section of the city, reported 
marked increases in the number at
tending classes until it was discover
ed that some two or three thousand 
Carnegie men and women had Inad
vertantly walked right past her fa, 
mous cut and continued on their way, 
naturally sinking into a sound slum
ber in Lhe first class room they came 
to.
A terrible state of affairs existed 
on the campus. Several members of 
the faculty were discovered conduct
ing classes in Schenley Park, dili
gently lecturing to the liabltuees of 
the Outdoor Hotel. Engineers were 
looking for ore dressing classes in 
Forbes Hall. Bert Munhall was sur
prised while rubbing down one of the 
lions overlooking Schenley Lake 
while Doc Marks was throwing moth 
balls at several of Dr. Esquorros pet 
calories. A greater cataclysmic holo
caust will never bo soon. Classes 
will bo rosumod when students, fac
ulty and Freshmen can ralso ball. In 
tho meantime lights will bo placed on 
the campus and such appropriate 
placards as the following distributed:
Keep to the right,
Walk very slow.
If you get lost just call 
Dogs and cats;
Provide yourselves
With tail lightsone and all. .

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1923
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute ot 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Posto/lice of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
H. V. SIMPSON.................................................................................... Bflltor-in-OMof
Telephone Schenley 9143
w. CUNNINGHAM .............................................................................. Business Managei
Telephone Schenley 9211 ,
KENNETH ARNOLD ...................................................................  Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley' 9189
FRED C. SMITH.....................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
n1 RioD T PHELPS .............................     Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT*........................................................................ Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9079
MARK S. DOWNESAnnodate Editor
H. Jt. WILSON .................................................................................. AMoqtote J>
W. WINNING ........................................................................................................ Nuw <WorTelephone Schenley 9070
F. IJ. ROSSINI ...................................................................................................... Now E(lltorTelephone Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDIIISWS ............................................................................................... NcwB Ell1101,Telephone Schenley 9211
E. C. FKAZIKIl .............................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone Schenley 9143
It. W. SLEATII ................................................................................................ Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ....................................................................................... Exchange ffldltor
E. P. COUSE, ............................................................................................................ Art Editor
DON GARDNER ............................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY 
B. BROUDY .... 
W. M. GII3SON...
................ Circulation Manager
Annlntant Business Manager 
.Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Enteile Garibaldi, Elizaboth Gordon, J. A. Dotigli or Ly, II. DeMare. E. G. 
Elglo, A. E. Krough, R. G. Kennedy, L. II. Harris, M. F. Reiter, K. Fulmer, 
M. D. Kallelz.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
G. E. Jacoby, J. ChrlntofT, II. P. Rassbach.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, A. D. Grodner, E. 
L. Reeves.
FIRST MEETING OF 
INTEftFRAT COUNCIL
Common Fraternity Affairs 
Handled Through Body 
of Delegates
SCRAPS 0 PLAID-] MR. RIEHL DIRECTS 
i GLEE CLUB AGAIN
The Edilor-ln-Chlei: In responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All news items munt be In the student 
postolice before 430 Thursday,
Tartan OillceRoom 5-A, Industrien Building. Olllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, lS: 00 to 1:00. ________________________________________
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
A uewHp'ajioi* published Tor profits depends upon its advertise
ments. This stutemeiH might be augmented by saying: the entire 
financial success ()i publication, bo it; any type whatever, is abso
lutely depen don Iupon the amount and calibre qJ! its advertisements. 
This is a fact requiring no elaboration. It. is so self-evident that its 
truth will be taken Tor granted.
The Carnegie Tartan, while not being published as a money
making proposition, is nevertheless published with a desire to keep 
financially above the water. In other words, while there is no desire 
to make a profit, there is a desire to keep from failure. And, that 
Which keeps us from1 being a failure is nothing more or less than our 
advertising. Without; Ibis, the Carnegie Tartan could not exist, for 
it is a well-known fact that the expenses of printing would make it 
almost, prohibitive. Getting back to the beginning, it is the revenue 
from advertising that makes this printing cost lose its powers to
wards preventing its publication.
In chasing advertisements, tin chaser is often informed by a 
prospect that there is no return, furthermore he argues that noth
ing is done to encourage the students to patronize their advertisers. 
In the past this has been trueit is a fact that very few steps have 
been taken to eneonrage students to patronize the advertisers in the 
school publications.
But, this is only in the past!
The Carnegie Tartan, appreciates l.luvalue ol! its advertisers, and 
is therefore going to do all in its power to gel the students to 
PATRON I/il'l ITS AI)VI<lK'ri,SmiW. hi I mo who re in Ibis issue is print
ed a list of the advotrisors, Use this list and whenever you want 
anything, re Cor to this list and PATRONIZE OUR A I) V UKThttKUS. 
,  If.I4M KAimilt they make the (iARNEGffl TARTAN possible!
The IIrat meeting of the Inter-fraternlty Council was held last Satur
day, and officers for the coming year 
wore elected an follows:
President, H. Bowman, Sigma Nu; 
vice president, D. A. Gardner, Woodlawn Club; necretary-treasurer, W. 
Koppes, Delta Tau Delta.
Seventeen fraternities were repre
sented. The main therne discussed 
was Fathers Day; Tllbrook, of the 
Alumni. Office, outlined the idea, and 
asked for co-operation on the part of 
the fraternities in making the day a 
success.
The air of the Inter-fraternity Coun
cil is to foster good spirit among all 
fraternities on the Campus. Wonder
ful achievements have been accom
plished through thin organization 
the outstanding one being the maintainance of good fellowship. All col
leges, of any degree of prominency 
and high standing, have their Inter* 
fraternity Councils, but Carnegie 
Tech can boast of possessing one of 
the best.
The purpose of thin organization is 
to decide and pass judgment upon all 
(ju'estIons that may arise among both 
local and national fraternities, to rec
ognize new fraternities and to control 
all social, scholastic and athletic ac
tivities, including fraternity rushing.
The following fratenltles and their 
representatives were present:
Acacia.................................. Joseph Davis
Alpha Tau Omega...................................
......................... Herbert Moershfelder
Beta Sigma Ilho..............................Garber
Beta Tlieta Phi..............Ralph Kramer
Delta Tau Delta...............W. F. Koppes
Delta Upsilon..............................C. James
Kappa Sigma.................4-1. E. Dykeman
Pi Kappa Alpha..............Mike Kallfelz
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
................................ Webb Cunningham
Sigma Nu .................. Howard Bowman
Tlieta Xi............................Ralph Humbert
Delta Chi Rlio ......................... Crojnwell
Lyman
THE POINT SYSTEM AND ACTIVITIES
) ---------------------
The school year lias started and with it the various school 
activities bave revived and swung into action. Theirgreat needs aro 
new material and new blood with whicbito rebuild, Many students 
will Hud oi* make time to enter into one or more ol! those activities. 
With this comes (.ho possibility ol! overloading. j
The Point System Inis been worked out and put into el'l'eet by 
the Student Council to guide and control participation in activities 
as well as to foster greater interest; in them. The Point System has 
shown, its possibilities in the short lime that it has been in existence. 
.As in all new undertakings defeats have been found, but they have 
been corrected. Last year t he working ol! the system was ,partially 
nullified by the high maximum of points. This year il has been 
changed and those entering into activities should bear in mind that 
the new maximum is twenty points for the entire year.
This maximum provides ampie opportunity for participation in 
different activities and yet precludes the possibility ol entering so 
many that both scholastic work and the activities will suffer. The 
.Student Council was wise in making this change; Activities should 
be selected more carefully and pursued more thoroughly. Students 
should map out a schedule of activities for the entire year so that 
they will not exceed the twenty point maximum and yet remain ac
tive for the whole year. This thought and care will, be reflected in 
the better working and improved standards of the activities. Coop era ion between the managers and secretaries of the different ac
tivities and the Point System Committee will accomplish much in 
building, up and improving a better and more influential Carnegie.
Delta Mu
Delta Phi Delta.........
Iota Sigma Delta.... 
Sigma Epsilon Phi.,. 
Woodlawn Club...........
. .John Delllcan 
..II. II. Wilson 
... .F. C. Smith 
.D. A. Gardner
TARTAN MEN RHChlVL 
PINS F0I Yl:ARS WORK
By HAL.
We're like a cat. We always come 
back. Guess we have nine lives and 
then some, unless someone ties the 
proverbial millstone around our neck.
These rumors sure do give us the 
shivers. Nineteen Ineligibleital
most caused a volcanic eruption. But 
then it proved to be only one. Wow! 
Dont make such a dangerous mistake 
again, Mr. Eligibility.
"Men In all four schools is a line 
o type we ran across in the last Issue. 
Some daring Rudolph must have 
transferred from Arts to the more lib
eral courses of Maggie Murph.
Tryouts to Take Place on 
Sunday Afternoon in 
Exhibition Room
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
Look liele you Seniors. Cant you 
give the Plebes a little rest. The 
Sophs are making life miserable 
enough for them, without your aid. 
We know you crave entertainment 
while roosting on the fence hut what 
are these Plebes going to think of tills 
Senior Counsellor stuff that went 
across so big this fall? Dont start 
that Who are you?" stuff now be
cause were eligible for the fence our
selves.
Somebody slipped up on their loca
tion work when they placed the. Senior 
fence. Cinder paths are handy but
Heard one of the profs say the other 
day that you can get most anything 
out of the faculty members. If you 
can sell yourself to them. We often 
thought we were the next thing to 
slaves but now we know it.
------------------
Carnegie is exceedingly fortunate in 
| again securing the services of Mr.
; Edward P. Riehl, last years direc| tor of the Glee Club. Mr. Riehl Is 
; well known to all Carnegie men and 
women, and has proven a source of 
: great strength to the club in two 
 ways. First, because of the value 
j of Carnegies having him for director, 
i on account of his long experience 
! along this line. Secondly, because 
| his genial personality helps the spirit 
j of the group materially. In short, it 1 is largely* due to him, that Tech Mu! sical Clubs are what they are.
Tiie Carnegie men who have bej longed to the Glee Club before, know 
| what it can do for a man, but per-i 
Jiaps the Freshmen do not really uu-1 
j derstand the value derived from a j 
: membership in the Glee Club.
| There is no finer place to get acj quainted with, the men from other 
j colleges than in the Glee Club. Be
sides.. with no other urge, the trips 
! which the club plans to make should i 
be an Inducement to all Carnegie 
I men to try out for a place. The 
tryouts take place Sunday afternoon, | 
| in the exhibition room at Design 
I School.
Any additional information that
It is the boast of Carnegie Tech; 
that her graduates do not in normal; 
times need to hunt jobs, because the; 
jobs come to hunt them. In other j 
words, Seniors leaving Carnegie with j 
a sheepskin in their hands have also 
more than that, they have--an/educa
tion which fits them for a responsi-j 
ble position, as far as that is possi
ble to give this on the campus. The; 
Department of Industrial Relations.! 
of which Dean Connelly is now the j 
head has done much to bring this | 
condition about, but fundamentally! 
we believe that it is the alumni who: 
have already left the school, that are! 
working for the Good of Carnegie!
Tefch; possibly it is done quite uncon
sciously, but the sage who said: Tell
The new gym is beginning to look 
pretentious and business like. Were 
figuring on taking our Senior swim 
in the pool. On the other hand we find 
that Mr. Munhall is not so optimistic 
in the prospect of more spacious quar
ters. Have patience Bert, youll get 
your new gym by and by.
any one wants can be obtained from 
tllie officers of the Club. These are:
President .................... Louis .Turcotte
Manager ....................................B. Broudy
With evedyones co-operation, Car
negie cun look forward to a very 
successful year, as iter as the mu
sical organizations are concerned. 
With the. men from last year, and 
I the new men which are expected to 
come out, the Glee Club will be a 
j group of which the school can well 
i be proud.
Beauty Medicine HEARV. KEA,E VACP 
In Weekly Doses KV. HELV. ,CTHH
me who your friends are, and I will j 
tell you who you are?- might well! 
have said further, "show me what you > 
are and I will tell you what your; 
friends have been.
Last years graduates found a large) 
number of positions open for them, i 
Most of those thatT'enlisted the aid j 
of the Alumni Employment Bureau | 
had three or four offers from which I 
they could chose. Below are given j 
the names of a few of the men who I 
took positions in their line of study, j 
The list is absolutely picked at ran
dom, and not based upon salary, de
partment or any other basis.
Civil.
D. C. Porterfield, Standard Oil Com-! 
pany of New YorkForeign Service, j
A. H. Tosteson, City of Milwaukee 
'City Engineers Office.
Eric Berglund, C. B. & Q. Railroad,! 
Browning, 111.
Mechanical.
J. T. Ames, White Motor .Car Coin-; 
pany, Cleveland. ,
Electrical.
E. A. Brand, West Penn Power 
Company, Pittsburgh.
Mining.
L. L. Byerly, Harbison & Walker 
Refractories Company, Pittsburgh. |
Questions and Answers Will 
be Special Feature
Members of the Carnegie Tartan 
staff who were awarded insignia for 
their work last year received their 
awards during the past week. Thirtyeight insignia were given out includ
ing four jeweled pins and six gold. 
The Carnegie Tartan offers one of the 
best opportunities on the campus for 
earning Insignia, as a Plebe, by com
ing out In his Freshman year Is able 
to earn a jeweled pin for four years 
work. Following Is the list of those 
who rocolved insignias, A few of the 
men who have not received their 
awards should call at the Tartan olllce 
any noon for them:
Jewelod pins...Victor M. Styomcjulst,
1-1, Don Sonnomnn, Edwin A. Brand, 
R. 11. Guyton.
Gold pina-Kenneth Arnold, H. F. 
Simpson, II, II. Wilson, II. F. Dieter, 
II. I. Hay, .1. C. Major.
Sliver phis M, D. Downes, F. 0, 
Binllh, F. T. Phelps, VV. 11. Cunning
ham, i. C. McKon/.lo, L. Hortzman, E. 
C, Fra/lor, It. R. Young, .1. Dougherty, 
T, J, Dempsey.
Brony.o pinF. I). Rossini, W. Win
ning, I-, D, Richards, A, S'. Andrews, 
11, DoMavo, A. 10. Krough, A. I. lsaaes, 
E. c i. Elglo, J. II Ferguson, G. E. Ja
coby, Joe Christoff, VV. M. Gibson, II. 
Broudy, J. It. Laudlg, D. Moskowltz, 
J. W. Metro, P. M. Reilly, R. L. Sam'.- 
roclc. "
Mr. P. .1. Freeman Talks to 
Civils on Testing rt\aterials
STUDENT CALENDAR^
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5
Tea DnnucSoph. M. M. (tentative)..........................4:30 1. 51., Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER (i
Football---Carnegie vs. Thiol..........................3:01) P. 51., Carnegie Bowl
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6
Football Dance..............................................................!) :00 P. 51., Union
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9
GENERAL ASSEMBLY...................................11:30 A. 51., Music Hall
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13
FootballCavnogio vs. St. Ignatius........................................Cleveland
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1!)
DflnccShilling.......:.......................................................ihOO 1. 51., Union
ASSEMBLIES
ARTS
The first: regular Arts School as
sembly was held last Tuesday la the 
Little Thontor. The plnco was llllod 
lo capacity with the recently acquired 
Plebes holding down the front seats.
Regular business was transacted 
and a short discussion of, the Arts 
Ball was given by President Barney. 
Suggestions were requested concern
ing the ball, and the Plebes wore ad
vised to arrange their dates early and 
avoid the rush.
Following the business routine a 
- brief entertainment was furnished by 
an energetic Plebe, who it seemed had 
been having some trouble with his 
shadow, and made an attempt to 
broadcast the tale of his afflictions. 
Herbert Polesie, accompanied by
Verno llnldono, then gave a very on* 
tertalnhig Imitation of several well 
known pnoplo, as voicing a musical 
complaint concerning the shortage of 
a crtala product, of the fruit; market, 
namely the banana.
The meeting was closed with :i pop
ular song by Oble Newman, assisted 
by Miss Howard at the piano.
BUSINESS MEETING AND TEA
The class of li)23 will be in charge 
of the tea which is to follow the busi
ness meeting in the tea room in the 
Margaret Morrison building on Sat 
urday afternoon, ,x October 13, at 3 
oclock. Miss Ray Fine will serve as 
hostess. Dont forget to mark this 
date on your calendai. Start the 
year right.
The Work of a Commercial Test
ing and Inspection Bureau was dis
cussed by Mr. P. J. Freeman, Con
sulting Engineer, before the Civil En
gineering Seminar last week.
The different processes for testing 
materials were outlined. The first 
thing to be done is to obtain the kinds 
of tests necessary from the specifica
tions. The specifications are usually 
standard but changes made necessary 
to meet existjng conditions, must be 
watched for.
The standard methods of making 
tests on cement, sand, brick and con
crete are followed. These tests are 
made in testing laboratories especial
ly equipped for such work. Care must 
be taken in the colorimetric test es
pecially. Occasionally small particles 
of lignite or. bits of wood cause a 
dark color. Yet the above impurities 
occur in such small sizes as to be 
practically! invisible and iion-injurious.
Mr. Freeman has had an extensive 
experience in testing work, For a 
number of years ho was Engineer of 
Tests at the Pittsburgh Testing Lab
oratory, While there he mudo exten
sive tests on slag concrete. He has 
also served on committees on concreto 
of the Amorlcan Concrete lntltute and 
of the American Society for Testing 
Materials.
A FLEETING OPPORTUNITY
Tho caption of this paragraph is 
not really Intended for a pirn. The 
straight dope according Lo Coach Halforty and Manager Wilson, is that 
there is a great chance for Freshmen 
and ether-newcomers to land a berth 
on the cross country team. With only 
a few votorans back, the outlook is 
not promising unless new material can 
be developed. If you have the guts 
and the enthusiasm and the desire to 
earn a varsity letter, here is an op-, 
portunity not to be lightly passed 
along.
Are you beautiful? If not, why not? 
There is no real excuse for a girl who 
will not be beautiful iu this day and 
ago. Of course the moans vary, and 
the processes differ, but they all come 
to the same endbeauty.
It has been brought before the pub
lic, in the past two issues, that beauty 
can be aided by a mirror. This fact 
still remains as authentic and in addi
tion to this, It is a perfect statement. 
When a person liasj.an Idea along1 the 
subject of personal charm, the proce
dure Is merely to run to a mirror and 
gaze therein. The answer Is simple. 
Why do girls carry, vanity casoB? 
Why are there so many mirrors in 
girls' rooms? Whyoh well, try and 
see for yoUrselves.
At tills writing it is thought best to 
medition a few things about the means 
to the end. Keeping things In good 
shape has been spoken of at length-In 
the last issue,, and it seems quite pos
sible that wo will see developments 
In the future. However, this Is mere
ly a small thing in the development 
of perfect specimens of beauty.
The second stop, counting the mattor of more careful ilgnring as the 
first, is the proccss of putting the best 
foot forward. Thjs of course, means 
a. well groomed anlclo must be forth
coming along with the foot, which 
must also bo nicely, adorned. Along 
with the best foot, should come the 
right hand. Tills should not be adorn
ed too much, and the loft hand should 
not bo adorned at all. Tills makes 
tilings more interesting. Of course, 
along with the host foot and the right 
hand there should come a few other 
things, such as oupids bow lips, tangering ears, cute eyebrows and all 
the trimmins.
All this is for a better looking 
campus. With the new Jim, we must 
have a series of new Janes. Would 
it not be nice for every girl to take 
a personal interest in the thing, and 
see what she can do to help. Every 
little bit helps and every pretty girl 
helps a lot more. Aside from the 
pretty face must come a few other 
things such as the song writer said
It has been noticed of late that 
others than Seniors or men who are 
spending their fourth year in a de
gree course have been resting them
selves on the Senior Fence. Being 
built especially for Seniors it is un
fair that others should also occupy 
seats of glory.
Beginning shortly, those occupying 
vantagp points on the Fence will be 
asked for. their registration cards.
Freshmen to Doff Hats 
On Passing Senior Fence
The rule that all Plebes passing the 
Senior Fence must doff their hats 
whether there are Seniors sitting 
thereupon or not will go into force 
immediately.
It will be considered a very serious 
offense indeed for a Plebe to be so 
disobedient as not to take olT his hat 
to the men who are laboring their 
fourth year and are ready to graduate 
(theoretically) from Carnegie. Tills 
doferonce lsr also due unquestionably 
to th Seniors of days gave by who 
have already graduated and are 
knocking em cold in the engineering 
fiold.
As a very suitable punishihent it 
has been decreed that the guilty 
Plebes must scrub the Senior Fence 
with great care under direct super
vision of the Sophomores.
Upper classmen must not kep the 
Plebes from classes later than 8:30 in 
the morning and 1:20 in the after
noon.
"Beautiful Faces Need Beautiful 
Clothes.
Clothes do not make the man, as we 
have heard but they do go a long way 
toward the ruination of a girls ca
reer. With beautiful clothes and beau
tiful faces goes a beautiful disposition, 
and that is the third feature,
Consider this proposition among 
yourselves girls, and see what you 
can do. Write your ideas to the 
Beauty Editor, Carnegie Tartan, and 
send in any questions along tiie lines 
of Beauty that you may have. 
Answers will be forthcoming in the 
next issue. Make a real column out 
of this measely start, and watch for 
results. All of the American schools 
and colleges will compare their girls 
with Tech as a standard.
ARE YOU BEAUTIFUL?
THE STUDENT COUNCIL
What It is and of Whom It Consists 
: to tunele we will run an explanation of the different organiza
tions on the campus for the benefit of those who do not know what the organizations are.
The following explains the organization and membership of the Student Council:
V ORGANIZATION 
The Student Council is composed of twenty-two representatives and 
three non-voting members, Including the President of the Student Council, 
five representatives from Margaret Morrison, five from Arts, four from 
Science, four, from Industries, one from the Mens Athletic Association, one
from the Womens Athletic Association, and three non-voting assistant sec
retaries from the Secretarial course in Margaret Morrison.
MEMBERSHIP
PrseidentTom Griggs, 5418 Baum Boulevard.....................................Schenley 2285
Vice PresidentTeasdale arney, 5549 Forbes Street............................Hazel 3320
SecretaryAdah Borgerdine, 27 Dinsmore Avenue.................... Walnut 0631-W
TreasurerH. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street.............................................Schenlev 9401
ARTS
President of SenateTeasdale Barney, 55/19 Forbes Street.................Hazel 3320
Senior ClassM. Arthur Bi\ace, -1921 Forbes Street.............Schenley 0569
Vice President SenateHelen B. Johnson, 4916 Forbes Street. .Schenley 9079
Senate RepresentativeAlfred D. Reid, Darlington Apts...............Schenley 3944
Senate TreasurerV. S. Mollenauer, 5812 Bartlett Street ___ Hazel 9398
ENGINEERING
President of SenateW. H. Ryan, 4902 Forbes Street......................Schenley 9143*
Senior PresidentC. N. Hollingsworth,-802 E. Hutchison..................Hilnnd 1820
Senior RepresentativeEllis Robertson,. 5814 Forbes Street..............Hazel 9422
Senate TreasurerMilo Matter, 4921 Forbes Street...........................Schenley 1659
INDUSTRIES
President of SenateF. W. Gore, 630 Clyde Street...........................Schenley 9189
Senior PresidentSam E. Dyke, 624 Clyde Street.............................Schenley 9401
Senate RepresentativeH. E. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street............Schenley 9401
Senate Treasurei^-M. Kallfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard....................Schenley 9285
MARGARET MORRISON
President of SenateBlair Jessop, 4321 Saline Avenue.........................Hazel 2748
Senior PresidentFrances McClymonds, 502 Hays Street..............Franklin 0302
Senior RepresentativeAdah S. Borgerdine, 27 Dinsmore Ave., Walnut 0637-W
Senate TreasurerBernice Rentz, 5150 Forbes Street....................Schenley 9204
MENS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
RepresentativeO. B. Newman, 4915 Forbes Street........................Schenley 9211
. GIRLS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
PresidentMary Heilig, 5810 Murrayhill Avenue...............................Montrose 5163
Building Construction.
Eruce Fowrie, H. Koppers Company, 
Warren, Ohio.
Leopold Hertzman, American Ap
praisal Company.
Machine Production.
B. Biever, Phillips-Jones Corpora
tion, Pottsville, Pa.
H. C. Godden, White Motor Com
pany, Cleveland Ohio.
Printing.
N. Allen, Andresen Company, Inc., 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Architecture.
W. L. Gibb, Jr., W. G. Wilkins 
Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.
George Brink, Architecture, Min
neapolis, Minn.
Science.
George Owen, Dupont Powder Com
pany, of New Jersey.
Many others could be added there
to. Anyone wishing to inquire fur
ther into the matter may do so at 
the Alumni Bureau; lack of space 
and a desire to avoid discrimination 
charges prompts the briefness of the 
list. The essential point to be 
brought out, however, is that a Car
negie degree is worth while, and that 
the alumni make the good name of 
the school. In this connection it is 
worth while to recall Emerson's 
famous words to his friend: What
you are speaks so loud, that I can
not hear what you say, the respon
sibility of the members of the Clan is 
even greater after graduation than 
before. We are here to prepare for 
that responsibility.
Yours, for the good of Carnegie 
Tech.
DANCE TO BE GIVEN BY 
SHILLING, OCTOBER 19
Nearly every school organization 
has taken its turn at giving a dance, 
or a tea, or a dinner, or something 
to let everyone know it is on the 
campus; and now the Shilling comes 
along and announces that it, too, is in 
tiie swim. At the last meeting of the 
staff, it was decided to hold a dance, 
on Friday, October 19, in the Union.
The girls are going to have the Col
legiate Eight furnish the music, if pos
sible. and the fee decided upon is one 
dollar, well within the reach of every 
pocketbooli. The day is just right, be
ing the day before the WasliingtonJefLerson g ime; the music will be j 
right and the price is right, so the j 
girls are expecting to see a large | 
crowd come out.
Everyone lenows what the Shilling 
is, the literary paper of the school, 
and, deducting that it takes brains to 
be literary, the conclusion reached is 
that if the girls get their brains work
ing on this affair, it will be a dance 
well worth attending. Many original 
ideas will in carried out in the deco
ration scheme, and several stunts are 
promised.
More of the inside dope will be | 
given out next week. Watch for it, 
and above all, dont forget the date, 
October nineteenth.
Motorists (stopping beside a car 
parked in the shadows.)Is anyone 
hurt?
Parker (interrupted in petting par
ty.)No. But there soon will be 
Goblin.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Grace Reformed j 
Church |
Dithridge and Bayard Streets
Rev. Frederick C. Nau, D.D., 
Pastor.
Students Cordially Invited to
All Services. X
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
TEKNON
CLUB
OPENING SUPPER 
THURSDAY 
OCTOBER 11 
6:30 P. M.
Bible Study and 
Recreation 
For Tech Students
Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church
Amberson, near Fifth
Hugli T. Kerr, LL.D. 
Pastor
The Htckshtr Building, New York City 
Warren & Wccmorc, Architects
ArchitectureToday and Tomorrow
T
HE great buildings of today, designed in masses which rear rug
ged, mounting profiles into the sky, foretell even greater and 
more massive structures for the next half century. Always a dose co
ordination of architecture and engineering, of design and construc
tion, die architecture of the future will find architect and engineer 
working ever more closely together.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill and organi
sation. will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture 
of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR
Offices in all Principal Cities
COMPANY
the World

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
WALLY STEFFENTARTAN HARRIERS 
BEGIN TRAINING
STEFFENITES MEET 
THIEL TEAM OCT. 6
Freshmen Wallop 
Westinghouse, 6-0On the Plaid Screen
OTHER GAMES
NEXT SATURDAY
I* Maryland vs. Pennsylvania, at
* Philadelphia.
Johns Hopkins vs. Princeton, 
?>* at Princton.
?I* North Carolina U. vs. Vaio, at 
\* Now Haven.
I* R. I. State vs. Harvard, at Cum-* bridge.
I* Lafayette vs. Pitt, at Plttsburgh.
<- North. Carolina State vs. Penn 
'* State, at Stati, College.
W. andL. vs. W. and .T., at 
* Washington. Pa.
Susquehanna vs. Cornell, at Ithv* aca.
*! William and Mary vs. Syracuse, 
:* at Syracuse.
Florida vs. Anny, at West Point, 
*:? Lombard vs. Notre Daino, at 
i* Notre Dame.
Dickinson vs. Navy, at Annap* oils.
Guy Halferty, Old Plaid Run
ner, to Train Men in 
Cross Country
Old Rivals Have Strong Out 
 fitMitchell and Christ
man Menace Tartans
Plebes Are Forced to Utmost 
to Down Old Rival in 
Hard Fought Game
Pittsburgh, la.. Last Week.
Dear Marge:
You have the nerve to ask me about the girls I go around with here 
and the other people I'm associating my time with. Now I dont mind you 
asking about the guys what 1 bunks with or anything like that, but when 
you come out and try to make a fool out of me where the women is con
cerned, well that looks to me like downright jealousy, and will he treated as 
such if not entirely ignored by yours truly.
Well, first of all there is Wally Steffen. I had a long talk with Wally 
the other day and he got real confidential and asked me what I thought 
I about a lot of things. Wally, hes a wise guy. One of the things he says is 
| that the athlete what has the guts to keep to training regs all during the 
! season is the guy what can always be depended on to put up a game fight all 
through the game, and that the very quality which makes another slip up 
on the training once in a while is the same tiling that makes him shine in 
one game and suffer a total eclipse in the next. This here Wally is a wise 
gazabo, and I gave him credit. Wally sure does like the men he has on 
the team, but says he really cant hand the schedule ablank.
Another one of my articular friends is one of the Deansfamiliarly 
known as Bert Munhall. And being as how Im pretty familiar with him 
youll pardon me if I refer to him as Bert hereafter. The important thing 
about the Dean is that he is pretty thick with the football playbrs and is 
one of the best looking men on the faculty. Somebody says he is a safe and 
sane trainer, and believe me Marge, lies all of that.
Course youve heard of Pat Ryan, the business agent of the local pig
skin union. Well, the other day there was a pep meeting what some people 
mistook for a slumber party down at the local stadium, and Ryan told me 
confidental like that the price of shoe strings for football shoes was going to 
advance soon, but that he thought that we would have a good team at that.
The biggest joke in years was pulled down, at the campus grounds the 
other day when the rumor was spread all around that 19 men were about 
to be declared ineligible by the Dean of Mennen. Imagine the feeling of 
relief when the truth came out that it was only four men and 15 asst, man
agers! Now some people are accusing Clies liable of trying to pull some
thing original.
I got a little advance dope to spring on you just. now. Next week will 
witness the beginning of a new and delightful feature in the scintillating 
sheet which you are now perusing. You know the Dean Munhall I men
tioned a short space above? Well, he has consented to pose for an auto
biography of himself which will be published in the next issue of said shoet. 
Dutch Zelt heard of the scheme and said hed give all the dope about the last 
four years of Berts life. Itold Dutch that this had to bo printable, but that 
didnt faze him any, so maybe liell get the coveted opportunity.
Now thats all Im going to tell you this time. You. know I dont have 
anything to do with the women, much; though I admit I did escort an awful 
nice young lady to the football game last Sat.
Yours till Ivory Soap sinks,
M Ei
With the opening of the fall sport 
season, we find the Plaid cross coun
try squad again traversing the green
swards and bridle paths of Schenley 
Park. T^ie squad this year is sadly 
lacking in the way of veteran mate
rial for many of the old varsity men 
who have been starring for the past 
two or three years have earned the 
coveted sheepskin and have gone the 
way of the world.
This leaves a splendid opening for 
inexperienced men. Both Freshmen 
and upperclassmen who come out for 
the team this season, will have an ex
ceptionally fine chance of making the 
trips and earning their varsity C. 
Too requirements for the awarding 
of a letter in cross country are that 
a man shall have finished in at least 
two meets. With four meets sched
uled in November there is plenty of 
chance for any man who is willing to 
train and work hard.
Coach Halferty who incidently is an 
old Tartan runner of note, is also 
planning on developing a Plebe team 
this fall which will compete in a num
ber of meets. Freshmen are specially 
urged to turn out and make up a team 
which will perhaps even cause the 
varsity to lengthen its stride.
The varsity schedule is not very 
strenuous inasmuch as all of the 
meets run about a week apart and 
there will be none of the long gruel
ling practice between them. The men 
will be tapered off for the first meet 
'and after that the workouts will prob
ably be only sufficient to keep the men 
in trim for the following meets. The 
schedule lines up as follows 
November 3Cincinnati-Lehigh  
Here.
November 9Alfred UniversityAt 
Alfred.
November 27West VirginiaAt 
Morgantown.
November 26IntercollegiatesAt 
New York.
Cincinnati, Lehigh and West Vir
ginia have all been defeated by the 
Tartan Harriers in the past two years 
but it remains a question whether a 
coparatively new team can repeat.
Dykeman, captain of the team, fin
ished fourth at the Inter-collegiates 
last year besides taking first place at 
the Syracuse Invitation meet. If he 
rounds into form this season, he 
should make a strong bid for the In
tercollegiate championship.
The call for new men cannot be too 
strongly stressed because as has been 
previously mentioned there is a short
age of real veteran material. The 
old men, besides the veterans Dyke
man and Bright, who will probably 
make a showing are Hinderer, Ben
der, Foller, Gottwals, Lieberknight, 
and Atwood. .
Men who are interested as well as 
those who desire to try out for assist
ant manager are requested to report 
any night at 4:30 in the Langley Lab. I 
Plebes are particularly urged to come 
out for the managerships.
The Skibo squad will don their 
moleskins for the second fray of the 
season on Saturday, October 0, when 
they lock horns with the Thiel Col
lege gridders in the Tartan bowl.
Thiel College has been on the Plaid 
schedule for several years and each 
year shows more pep. The aggrega
tion that is coming to Pittsburgh this 
year is determined not to be left out 
in the cold when the filial whistle 
blows.
The Thiel squad this year has two 
veterans of last year that may prove 
dangerous to the StelTenites. Mitchell 
who holds down the keystone position 
for Thiel has in previous conflicts 
proven an invincible bulwark against 
the Tartan linemen. Christman the 
field general of the Gronoville outfit 
is a brainy player who will be a men
ace to the Plaid goal line.
The Skibos aro training hard and 
the coaches are not making any pre
dictions but are waiting to show their 
stuff when the whistle blows.
The Prehmen opened the football 
season by trimming the Westinghouse 
Tech team In a hard fought battle. 
The Plebes were forced to their ut
most in order to down the Westing
house gridders, and only once did 
they gradually work the ball down 
the field Tor a touchdown. Westing
house Tech being one of the Plebes' 
oldest rivals, and a. hard team to 
beat, made the game very interesting.
The first half opened with a bang 
when the Plebes kicked off to Westingliouse, Avho returned the ball to 
the thirty-yard lino. The Plebes held 
the Westiughouso team on downs, and 
from then on took the offensive. By 
the excellent work of Dodge and 
Hamilton with the co-operation of the 
others the Plebes gradually worked 
the ball down to Westinghouse Techs 
fourteen-yard line in the first quarter. 
Soon after the second quarter started 
Hamilton scored a touchdown for the 
Plebes.
The second half of the game was 
very close, neither side scoring any 
points. The two teams swayed from 
side to side, but most of the last half 
of the game being layod in the visi
tors territory, showed the Plebes 
were master of the game. Hamilton 
and Dodge were the stars of the Tech 
backllold, while Hughes did well on 
the line . Plumber, a good man of the 
Freshmen, was keeping on the side
line because of injuries.
The lineup:
PlobesG. Westinghouse0.
Levinson..............L. E........................... Hill
'rate .......................L. T....................... Grant
Cooper ...................L. G.................... Pfeifer
Mnnby ...................C.......... Buckwaters
Hughes .................R. G................ Wlenorid
Guthrie .................R. T..................... Gainer
Vogt...........................R. E.................... Hurley
Hamilton .............Q. B................... Ohunko
Dodge.......................L, H........ McWlmrtor
Slirlver .................R. H........... McIOllmno
Warron .................R. I-l............................THII
Substitutions...- Morlrs for Gainer,
Caublo for Hurley, Werner for Dodge, 
Harmon for Hamilton, Painter Cor 
Wienond, Gainer for Morris, Burgort 
for Lovlnson, Hamilton for Harmon, 
Magzar for McWlmrtor. Africa for 
Ohunko. TouchdownHamilton. RoforcoWalsh, llmplroMonos, Hoad 
linesmanFlnlc, Time of <|uarl;orH~- 10 and 12 minutes.
THE ETERNAL QUESTION
The thing which will puzzle phil
osophers and mathematicians for 
many years to come will no doubt be 
the question concerning the location 
of the elusive Pep at the first pop 
meeting last Thursday. Everybody 
was all set to welcome that young fel
ler; nearly every Plebe and a good 
sprinkling of upper classmen were 
gathered to do homage to him; a largo 
band of strong-voiced lads sought to 
bring him out of hiding; persons in 
the audience who had* attended other 
similar occasions turned to their 
neighbor and asked, "What is the mat
ter?" But Pop was simply non est. 
Thank goodness he came out of hid
ing and showed himself to his loyal 
subjocts on Saturday. Our lorvont 
prayer is, "Deliver us henceforth from 
Pop meetings without Poo!"
' Coach Steffen left Saturday after 
the Toledo gave to resume his du
ties on the bench in Chicago. He 
will be back everyweek-end for the 
games. Well miss you, Wally!Boom in Girls Athletics 
Board Plans Rejuvination
M. M. ATHLETICSA sage and serious group of girls 
gathered about the round table Mon
day and, after many wrinkling of 
brows, decided that Carnegie Tech 
girls athletics needed a rejuvination.
Its first delintte stride towards this 
end was the unanimous election of 
Miss Ida Spurrier, who has boon so 
vitally interested in the work of the 
girls as advisor.
One chief concern of tlio girls Is 
whether Varsity Basket. Ball will ho 
accepted iby the association this year. 
"For the good of Carnegie" seems to 
be a slogan which could be put to 
UBe in considering this quostlon.
Big Rally!
Remember the one hold last your 
-rso successful that food became ex
tinct before half the girls could ho 
fod? Wellthere Is going to bo an
othermore food and moro pop.
Until that time every Carnegie girl 
is going to talktalk fall tennis, 
.basket ball, bowling and swimming, 
boost her team, watch the notices, 
and come out strong!
Arent you?
A word to the wise!
Did It over occur to you Freshman 
Girls that there* aro certain doilnlto 
obligations that must be fulfilled be
fore you can justify yoursolvoH by 
being worthy Carnegie girls? Activ
ities demand onorgOtlc and faithful 
peoples time. How can you prove 
your worth hotter than by entering 
a clean team,, coming out for hikes 
and proving yourself capable of be
longing to a Carneglo Clan?
HARE AND HOUND CHASE
Opening the girls athletic events 
and following out the custom of last 
year, the annual Hare and Hound 
chase was given last Friday afternoon 
by the Margaret Morrison Athletic As
sociation for all the girls of C. I. T.
The Hares left their burrows at 
3:30 and an hour later the Hounds 
were released from their kennels. 
These Hares chose a hard trail to fol
low, ducking through alleys, going in 
circles, and finally ending their chase 
in Fricks Woods. They then had a 
long tedious wait before the Hounds 
arrived, tired and ready for supper 
which consisted of weiners, rolls, 
pickels and marshmellows.
First Pep Rally Was 
Pronounced Success
A PART OF YOUR 
EDUCATION
Aidde from the dunirable 
habit of thrift whloh It holps 
you to establish, a bank acoount gl veil you valuable ex
perience In the handling of 
finances.
The personal Interest of 
Its officers In the business 
and financial welfare of de
positors Is an oututandlng 
characteristic o this InstltuIton.
Launch Drive For Students 
Trip to Cleveland
The first pep rally of the yoar was 
held at the Carneglo bowl last Thurs
day in preparation1 for the Toledo 
game. ,
Cheers were led by the various Ap
plicants for the position of cheor-loador and the ones rocelving tlio moat ap
plause for their respective attempts 
were chosen as assistants for the com
ing year. Those choson as assistants 
Avere: Mlnottl and Foncil. Si Ilonninger remains as lioad cheer leader.
The' Plebes wore there on masse, 
some coining voluntarily, somo other
wise. Every effort was made to Im
plant the germ of Carnegie spirit in 
the future members of our clan.
Announcement was made of the spe
cial train which has been arranged 
for the Cloveland game, and everyone 
was urged to start a porsonal cam
paign in an effort to raise the price 
of a round trip which will be $4.75.
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
Miss Spurrier was unanimously 
elected faculty advisor of the M. M. 
C. C. Athletic Board for the coming 
year. This is the first change in a 
number of years and was made nec
essary by the resignation of the for
mer advisor, Miss Boivnian, who left 
C. I. T. at the end of last year. Miss 
Spurrier is very popular with the girls 
and it is expected that very close co
operation will result.
LIST OF ADVERTISERSDRESS SUITS TO RENT
All Occasions
Order onvly for the 
Noxt Formal Affair
Lurgst stock between New York and 
hicago
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO. 
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Suuthlieicl OIM1.
Melachrlno Cigarettes 
Remington Portable Typewriter 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop 
Tech Barber Shop 
Mellon National Bank 
Auf hammer and Evans 
Skibo Inn 
Fatima Cigarettes 
Dixons El Dorado Pencil 
C. M. Stau ft 
Collegiate Barber Shop 
Craig Restaurant 
Schenley Tailoring Company 
Oakland Savings and Trust 
Company.
Liberty Engraving Company 
Da.vies and Hughes 
Otis Elevator Company * 
'Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
Oakland M. E. Church 
Grace Reformed Church
INSTRUCTORS HONORED
The Margaret Morrison recreation 
hall will be the scene of the second 
girls athletic event of the year. Un
der the auspices of the Athletic As
sociation a tea will be given this af
ternoon in honor of Miss Russel, the 
nep athletic head at M. M. C. C., and 
Miss Spurrier who has recently been 
elected faculty advisor for the Ath
letic Board.
All the girls, 'especially the Fresh
men, are urged vo come and meet the 
two honored guests. ____________
"Horace wanted to kins mo 
toon times last night."
"How do you know he did?" 
"Because 1 counted them all. 
Punch Bowl
HAVE NO FEAR
Beforo you got together and decide 
to lynch the editor, It may be woll 
to explain that stuff such as the above 
will not be included as a regular 
feature by this column. It Is not our 
desire to detract from the glory which 
is Don Gardners, though there Is not 
the slightest doubt in our mine's that 
we could do it. The sole cause of the 
above splurge is the appeal of the 
Ed.-in-Chief for something different.
Airfhammer & EvansCompliments
Wlint ELG the mutter 
with Professor Henry this 
moniinp? Ive never seen 
him so peeved. He seemed 
to he hulling over."Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Py'hias
Hoillng civer is good. Me 
ELGA Didn't you notice 
why? The old buy imd mis
laid his Eldorado pencil.Fall Sport Schedules
I COLLEGIATE 1
1 BARBER SHOP 1
I 418 South Craig St. |
DANIEL & CICERO &
^ Proprietors. S
Varsity Football,
October GThiel ...................................................
October 13St. Ignatius ....................................
October 20Washington and Jefferson___
October 27Pitt .....................................................>
November 3Lehigh .......................................
November 10Detroit University . 
November 24Notre Dame ........................... .
____ Tech Field
............ Cleveland
Washington, Pa. 
..; Forbes Field 
... Forbes Field 
.. Detroit, Mich. 
... Forbes FieldPost
TavernCraig Restaurant
412 CRAIG STREET 
Quick Service and Cleanliness. I 
TRY OUR REGULAR DINNER j 
40c and 50c
SCHENLEY 
TAILORING CO.
Collect and Deliver. 
Call Schenley 1538
Freshman Football,
October 6Slippery Rock .. 
October 13State Freshmen 
October 27Pitt Freshmen .
November 3Kiski ................
November 9California 
November 16Bellefonte ...
. Tech Field
.............. State
Forbes Field 
.. Saltsburg 
.. California 
. Tech Field
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Cross Country.
Schedule not yet ready for publication.
Member Federal Reserve ' 
System.
Capital.........................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia630 Clyde ......................................................
Alpha Tau Omega254 Bellefield.........................
Beta Sigma Rho1146 Wightman.......................
Beta Theta Pi5549 Forbes...................................
Delta Tau Delta4002 Forbes,............................
Delta Upsilon5224 Liberty..................................
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde........................................
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum..................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbes.....................
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes.............................................
Theta XI5017 Forbes...............................................
.Schenley 9189 
.Schenley 9102 
.Schenley 9376 
....Hazel 8320 
.Schenley 9231 
..IfHand 0858 
Schenley 9401 
.Schenley 9285 
.Schenley 9211. 
.Schenley 0659 
.Schenley 9243Theres Nothing
quite so expensive as cheapnessnothing quite so wholly dissatisfying. 
We do not favor high prices, but WE DO INDORSE HIGH QUALITY. 
A low price may satisfy in the beginning, but it is HIGH QUALITY 
that satisfies IN THE END.Local Fraternities.
Delta Chi Rho ......................................
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro................
Delta Phi Delta156 North Craig. 
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins... 
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson, 
Sigma Epsilon Phi5812 Bartlett. 
Woodlawn Club5814 Forbes.....
What a difference 
just a few cents make !
...Hazel 9345 
Schenley 4490 
...Hazel 9356 
.Schenley 9017 
...Hazel 9398 
...Hazel .9422FATIMA
Oaklands Mens Store.
NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
OPEN EVENINGS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1923
ALUMNI PAG E&I I
Why Not .loin the Student Rates on
Alumni Federation prajn pQr Alumni'
MORE CLAN NEWS WANTED
A little iiHHlHtanc, (Man HocrotarIoh. Nowh from the Claim in com Ing 
In Blowly and In vory small portions, 
and wo n.eod It badly. Without MCERN 
interest In tlio Clan drops off quito 
noticeably, but II! account ol! your 
meetings, porsonals, suggoBtlona and 
criticisms aro run overly week on 
the Alumni. Pago the increase In size 
and strength of your Claris will cer
tainly surprise you and It will help 
a lot In Securing' new meinberB and 
In getting old ones out for meetings.
Send your copy In promptly to T. 
M. McDonald, Alumni OfTlco, Carne
gie Institute ol! Tochilology, and bo 
hure that It reaches nB by Thursday 
evening othorwlae It will bo too late 1.0 be run In. The Tartan of the fol
lowing week.
Put the spark of life back Into tho 
organization by ending In newB, l'or 
nowa and publicity aro the life-blood 
of the Clans.
ERIE CLAN
The next mootlng of tho Jrio 
Clan will bo held Thursday, ovening, 
Octobor 11. A Ietter from G. L. Tllbrook will ho read afc tliis meeting. 
All Carnegie Alumni and form er studonts aro urged to attend, for plana 
will bo laid: for tho trip down to 
Pittsburgh to wltness the Pltt-Carnegio football game Oetober 27. Mr. 
W. S. Hug, 1359 FHID Tenth. street, 
1I tlie new Secrotary-Treaiirer of the 
Erle Clan.
NOTICE TO CLAN SECRETARIES
The Alumni Office.is getting out a 
list of all Carnegie Alumni and for
mer students located in tho various 
Clan districts. As IHHL as those 
lists are completed, they will bo sent 
out to tho Clan secretaries. They 
will undoubtodliyi ho a great help in 
securing new members for the Clan 
and In rounding up soino of the old 
members who have been lost through 
changes in address. These lists will 
also be published within tho noxt 
month in a special Alumni Issue of 
The Tartan.
'21, GIVES LUNCHEONM.
On Soptombor 29 at the RusUln, 
the class of 1921 gave a luncheon 
in honor of Grace Rupert, While 
Miss Rupert ronlliyi belong to the 
class of 11), '2li claims her as their 
honorary member. For tho past two 
years she has boon teaching In tho 
Ifackel. Medical College, Canton
China. Sho described tho life there 
as vory JntoroBtlng and from the ac
count which she gavo of tho people 
and their customs we all agree with 
her. Miss Rupert expects to return 
to China tlio beginning of tho year. 
After tlio luncheon the party wont 
to the football game. Every ono was 
vory enthusiastic about tho good time 
and the one cry seemed to be Why 
don't wo moot moro often'/"
0. J. Swanson and1 H. C. Kost of 
Carnegie Toch, of the SDMII of 23, 
are engaged In the Student Train
ing Course of tho Genoral Electric 
Company at Schenectady, N. Y.
TO ALL ALUMNI:
Ono of the greatest services which 
you as Alumni can render Carnegie 
at tho present time is to write the 
managers of the news servico bureau 
as w'oll as the dally papers of your 
city, calling to their attention the 
omission of the past several years in 
reporting the scores of all Carnegie 
contests. Individual complaints of 
this kind to the Sporting Editors of 
the papers to which you are BUbscrlbers will certainly give 'Carnegie a 
place among colleges such as she de
serves.
WRITE THE SPORTING EDITORS 
OF YOUR PAPERS AT ONCE!
GIRLS GLEE CLUB
MAKES NEW PLANS
(Continued From Page One.) 
either club, may receive the same 
through any of the ofiicerB.
Louise Porter ......................... President
.Terry Perry ................... Vice President
Gretchen IsBel ......................... Manager
Louise Benson ............Asst. Manager
Mary Quick ...................... Socy.-Treas.
Josophin S'oiBBon ................ Librarian
Margaret Cooms. (Stringers) Manager
SECOND FOOTBALL
DANCE SATURDAY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
Union, nine till twelve, dollar and a 
quarterbut tho committee is oxpoct/- 
lug to eo many new faces among 
those enjoying the dance. Plebes 
who failed to attend the first dance 
should try to take in this one. All 
regulations are off for soolal func
tions and a Plebe gets Ills only 
chance to show Off while at a dance.
Proceeds from these affairs are 
turned over to tho Athletic, Council 
to bo used in boosting Curnoglo Tech 
athletics.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSoevoliary, A. 0, Spi'aguo, R, I<\ I). No. 24, South .Akron, 0.
BOSTONSoovotary, .1. ,l.\ Maxwell, 220 Billings Rond, Wollaston, 
Muss.
BUWALOSoovotftiy, Robert Portov, 870 Hprtel Avonuo.
CHICAGOS^Qrotttry, I. S. Stark, oave 19, Vernon Hill Co,, 64 West 
Randolph. Streot.
CINCINNATI .1. W. Bntmnn, oaro Johns Monville Company.
(U/I'JV I'lbANI) Seerotivi'y, ,15, F, Xjundpon, 12722 Barrington Avcmip; Women's Clan, Secretary, Mildred Lawrence, 2241 Ciunnrington Road.
UUYYAVUODU.O SDX3AY,PbbP,Boerotary-Ti'oasuror, Cl. R. Holmes, R, MeI XH gun Foundry Company, Now Havon,
DAYTON ({, L. hong, Sc.cretary-'lrimsuror, MO I Grafton Avenue.
.1 )IflTR0.l'l"'Soeietary, .It, A., NoaJ, J.GJ.5 Cadillac Avomio.
.Mld.AVOOD CITY....Ac,ting Secretary, George DimseHli, Jr., East
Cottatfd*
'J31UBW. W. Hug, Secrelitiry-Tronsurer, .1.30,0. West Tenth Street.
HARRTSBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HONTJNC1TON-Secretary, J. F. Do Young, 808 Second Street, 33.
.J OHNSTO W NActing .Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner Street.
2UB 3Y1D9VXtBuBocrctary-Trcusurer, Frederick Kindi, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceaul 202 Shonango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, E. M. Gretzlor, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh. Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, Tliomas M. McDonald, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. CSecretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Bou
levard; Womens Clan Secretary, Miss Edice Reideiy-Rayen 
School, Ohio and Benita. Avenues.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Carnegie Man Gets First 
WANTS MORE MEMBERS Degree of Kind in World
Of the many benefits which are to 
be derived from a college oducatlon 
there are tv/o which Bland out from 
among tho resttheoretical knowl
edge and associations. The student 
pays what seems to him at tho time a 
comparatively large sum In the form 
of tuition in return for which ho re
ceives a certain amount of thooretlca 
knowledge. He hopes and expects 
that this modest Investment will show 
groat results In the form of increased 
responsibility, Influence, and there
fore salary, and he Is right In expect
ing this.
However, it is only through the ef
forts of our benefuctors that the sum 
Is not much larger than it Is. Do yoi 
know that you pay in tuition only 
about one-third of the cost of the 
training you receive while attending 
Carnegie? Surely then you are obli
gated to your Alma Mater and should 
help her out In times of need.
Along with your tlnioretlcal knowl
edge you, as a student, incidentally 
acquired associations which / have 
proved of value to youIf you have 
retained these associations. HAVE 
YOU? You can keep these associa
tions fresh only by reading the Tar
tan and The Carnegie Alumnus or by 
being present on the campus. Since 
tho latter is not possible it is up to 
you to join the Alumni Federation and 
by so doing receive the Tartan and 
The Carnegie Alumnus free fdr one 
year in addition to the privileges of 
membershp in the Federation.
If you are delinquent $4.00 will place 
you in good standing. If you are not 
delinquent $2.00 will keep you in good 
standing. Make checks payable to G. 
L. Tllbrook, Treasurer.
Keller Fund Contribution 
From Alumnus in Japan
The following letter was received 
from an alumnus in Japan. Further 
proof that Professor Keller was
greatly loved and reverenced by the 
student body would be extravagant: 
By Dear Professor lllggs:
Through the columns of the Carne
glo Tartan of sometime ago I learned 
that Professor Keller has passed
awaiyi. His memory takes me back 
to my Carnegie days, which, although 
not a matter of so very many years 
ago, seem, from this distance, as
something mystic and holy, wherein 
his teaching enthusiasm and under
standing wore a revelation to me. T 
can not say that I was Ills good studont then nor am I now, but my 
vnguo notion to endon/vor to bo such 
will always play a guiding spirit In 
mlyl future as In my past, and 1 do 
ascribe this spirit to what little sue 
coss 1 have so far gained. 1. have 
Just lately boon promoted to the po
sition of clilof onginoer hero.
I am sonding you ton dollars by 
International postal monoy order, 
which 1 'wish you to kindly place as 
my little sha.ro In tho contribution to 
tho Kollor Memorial Fund Shelf of 
books,
Willi .ilfoctionato regard,
Yours for Carnegie,
M. III HA I
Directory of Alumni Organizations
ALUMNI FEDERATION
President, H. L. I-Iollman, 17; First Vice President, J. F. Laboon, 
12; Second Vice President, Harry Bremmer, 20; Third Vice Presi1 dent, W. II. Hitts, '12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, 08; Sec
retary, Gall Sellers Fettlco, 17; Treasurer, G. L. Tllbrook, 15.
Board of Governors.
SHDDMdH of Fine ArtsII. L, Heilman, '17; Harry Bremmor, 20. 
Collofje of IndustriesW. H, Hitts, '12; ,T, M. Orr, 15; T. M. Mc
Donald, 23.
College of EnalneerlnflJ. F. Laboon, '1,2; M. It. Walton, '00;
 G. L. Tllbrook, M.
Margaret Morrlnon Cnrncqle CollegeMrs, C. R, Fottko, '17; Ber
nice Kruger, Mi); Mrs. F. I. Gaston, '00.
Representative at LargeS. G, Little, '10; S. M. Vincent, 'OS.
OFFICERS OF ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS 
College of Fine Arts President., 11, L. Hollmun, \1.7; SocrotaryTreatmror, Charlotte Smith, 'IS; llarry Broinmor, 20; 11. W. Smith, 
A.; ltay Marller, A.; Marguerite Collotto, A,; K. \V. Sell inert/., '21; 
Eleanor Tenor McCullough, '13; Esther Topp, 'IS.
Collogo of EngineeringPresident, J; F, Laboon, M2; SecretaryTreasurer, G. L. Tllbrook, 15; David Henderson, 12; J. W. Dougherty, 
'11; W. B. Sklnklo, '17; T. F. Shea, 10: M. H. Walton, '01); H. G. 
Nlchol, 21; It. S. Stockdale, 15; H. C. Cosgrove, 'IS.
College of IndustriesPresident, J. M. Orr, .15: First. Vice Presi
dent, G. T. Iieddaeus, 20; Second Vice President, H. E. Fox, 10; Socretary-Treasurer, T. M. McDonald, 23; L. T. Kollv, I.; L. II. Loo, 
09; F. Miller, 09; F. A. Crotliers, '21; W. B. PAGGAETWWOHC W. II. Hitts, 
'12; C. K. Koontz, 17.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Mrs. C. R. 
Fettke. 17; First Vice President, Suo Smith, 17; Second Vice Presi
dent. Millicent Leach, 15: Secretary, Bernice Kruger. 19; Mrs. F. I. 
Gaston, '09; Josephine Whitney, '22; Dorothy Grant, *23.
Executive CommitteeGail Sellers Fettke. 17; Sue Smith, 17: 
Bess Sheets Gaston, '09; Florence Bechtel, 17; Edna Smith, 09; 
Josephine Whitney. 22; Dorothy Grant, '23; Bernice Kruger, *19; 
Mary Craighead Brinton, 11.
SHOCKING POETRY
Tho naked! hllhi lie wmiton to tho 1)1*00'/,0,
Tfho Holds aro, nude, tho groves un
frocked,
Bare aro the shivering llmlbs of 
hatnelosB trooa
Wlmt, wonder is It that tho corn 
Is schockod ?
Exchange,
DID IT BLISTER?
She was peeved and called him Mr.
Not Becauso ho w'out and ICr.
But the thing, that made her sore,
This same Mr. Kr. Sr.
Exohange.
------------------
Cleveland Clan Expected to, 
Arrange For Feeding 
Hungry Fans
Alumni from all over the Trl-Stato 
district will be at the St. Ignatius 
game In Cleveland on October 13. 
Hundreds of Carneglo graduates will 
go there and) the occasion will more 
than likely resemble a reunion.
Alumni will be privileged to take 
advantage of tho student rates which 
is $4.75 the round trip. 3DIHuDf any 
alumni live along way stations they 
should get in touch, with the Ath
letic Office, who will give them all 
the necessary dope.
In all probability you Alumni are 
at the presenL thno suffering from 
Football Fover. If you are not LH 
afflicted go to Cleveland and we will 
guarantee you a severe case of tills 
delightful sickness. The whole stujdent body will bo there. Make it a 
point to go. Remember, Cleveland, 
October the thirteenth, round trip 
$4.75, and .a good time such as can 
onljyl bo found on Carnegie Tech foot
ball trips.
For tho information of new stu 
dents, the Receiving Office in the 
basement of the Central Building is 
the place where articles found on the 
Campus should be turned in prompt
ly, and where inquiries should be 
made for lost articles.
CARNEGIE PROF. LOSES
HOME IN CALIF. FIRE
According to advices just received, 
Porter Garnett, Associate Professor 
of Graphic Arts and Director of the 
Laboratory Press, lost his two-story 
house and all of its furnishings in the 
$10,000,000 fire that swept Berkeley, 
Calif., last week. Mr. Garnett lias 
lived in Berkeley for many years and 
was one of hundreds of residents 
whose homes were entirely destroyed.
Although Mr. Garnetts losses are 
partially covered by insurance, he 
feels keenly the loss of his library 
which contained many valuable books. 
Of irreparable loss was a book show
ing genealogical records, and that had 
been In possession of his ancestors for 
300 years. A large number of mem
bers of the faculty of the University 
of California were made homeless.
Mr. and Mrs. Garnett spent the sum
mer in Berkeley and had returned to 
Pittsburgh only a few days when they 
were informed of their misfortune.
Employment Bureau Doing 
Good Work Securing Jobs
Tho Employment Bureau at Car 
noglo under Miss Moril and Mr. Mc
Donald is doing some good work in 
placing men at. part-time work.
Soiling jobs of every description are 
opon from shirts to radio apparatus, 
but aspirants for tills kind of work 
aro few. A fow wide awake Balosmon can make a real sucooss of any 
Job throughout tho school year.
Tlio domand made by tlio students 
at prosont is greator than tho amount 
of certain kinds of work to bo had; 
but positions aro being filled as soon 
as tlioy come into tho ofilce.
REFORM IN THE UNDERWORLD
Im through with this hold up game! 
I'll hang1 around this joint no more. 
A little sigh,
A little cuy,
And the garter slipped to the fioor,
Anon,
Got a match?"
Ill give you one for, a cigaret. 
Yes, thats what I want it for.- 
Tlie Brown Jug.
Whos Who on the Campus
Student Council.
PresidentT. N. Griggs.........................5-11S Baum BoulevardHazel 9422
Vice PresidentTeasdale Barney...........5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
SecretaryAdah Borgerdine.. .27 Dinsmore AvenueWalnut 0637-W 
TreasurerH. E. Dykeman....................024 Clyde StreetSchenley 9401
Presidents of School Assemblies.
ArtsTeasdale Barney;...,......................5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
IndustriesFrank Gore.......................030 Clyde StreetSchenley 91S9
Margaret MorrisonBlair Jessop...........4321 Saline Street-Hazel 274S
ScienceW. H. Ryan...................5017 Forbes StreetSchenley 9143
Senior Class Presidents.
ArtsJ. D. Mawliinney..............................5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
IndustriesS. E. Dyke.............................634 Clyde StreetSchenley 9401
Margaret MorrisonFrances McClymonds. .502 Hay St.Franklin 0302 
ScienceC. N. Hollinswortli.... 4921 Forbes StreetSchenley 0059
Junior Class Presidents.
ArtsO. B. Newman.....................4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
IndustriesA. S. Andrews..................4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
Margaret MorrisonMary Speers...........841S ParkviewSchenley 1742
ScienceMilo Matter.............................4921 Forbes StreetSchenley 0059
Sophomore Class Presidents.
ArtsMyron Goodwin..........................5224 Liberty AvenueHiland 0S5(>
IndustviOR....D. V. Boodo...........................024 Clyde StreetSchenloy 9401
Margaret. MorrisonEdith Warren..............Forbes HallSchenley 9340
Scionco
Editors of Publications.
'PartanH. F. Simpson.5017 Forbes StreetSchenloy 5)148
Puppet:V. 0, Olson.......4921 Forbes StreetSchenloy 0059
Technical' Journal -W. Lyman..:..................5574 AylesboroHazel 9845
ThistleJ. D. Slyo......................................5549 Forbos StrootHazel 3320
SchillingAnno Kirkor....................0017 Grafton StreetHiland 7995-J
Business Managers.
TartanW. B. Cunningham..............1915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
Puppet,B. Broudy . ................................................................................... .............
Technical Journal
ThistleJ. R. Reid.................................5224 Liberty AvenueHiland 0S5S
SchillingMildred Abel............7722 Brashear StreetFranklin 754-M
Musical Clubs.
President (Men's)L. R. Turcotte. .4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
Manager (Men's)Ray Keller.........254 Bellefield Ave.Schenley 9102
President (Womens)Louise Porter-------.Carrick, Pa.Carriek 1540
Manager (Womens)Gretchen Issel.........Mellon HallSchenley 9063
Band (Manager)Rudy........................5001 Wilkins AvenueHazel 9356
Many former students of Carnegie 
are unaware of the fact that they are I 
eligible for membership in the Alum-1 
ni Federation. '
Article III of the Federation con
stitution might well be quoted on this 
point:
b. Any person who has attended 
Carnegie Institute of Technology for 
not less than one . year, or who has 
been a member of the faculty or ad
ministrative staff for one year shall 
be eligible for associate membership 
in the Federation.
c. Any ten members in good stand
ing may recommend for associate 
membership in the Federation any for
mer student or member of the Faculty ! 
or Administration not eligible under 
conditions set forth in the foregoing 
paragraphs. Such person is eligible 
upon ratification of such written peti
tion by the Federation Board.
The cost is but $2.00 per year with 
no initiation fee. Aside from the 
privileges of the Alumni Federation a 
member receives the Tartan and Car
negie Alumnus free for a year, and in 
addition, first choice of tickets for the 
football games.
Application blanks for membership 
may be obtained by writing to the 
Alumni ofilce.
It is the duty .of every member of i 
the Alumni Federation to round up  
duririg the year, at least one former 
student, of Carnegie and make sure 
that he or she makes application for 
an Associate Membership. Have you 
done your duty?
MYSTERY TEAM FROM OHIO
SET BACK BY TARTAN PLAID
IN INITIAL BATTLE, 32-12
Earl W. Lieberman, a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech, in Pittsburgh, holds 
the distinction of being the only man 
in the world to be awarded a degree 
as Bachelor of Science in Sheet Metal 
Construction. This status develops 
from the fact that Carnegie Tech is 
the only college in the world that 
awards a B. S. Degree in Sheet Metal 
Work, and Mr. Liebermann, who was 
graduated last June, is the first to be 
so honored.
Mr. Liebermann is the son of a 
well-known sheet metal manufacturer 
in Arabridge, Pa., and following his 
graduation the young man stepped 
into his fathers factory to take 
charge of an important position.
His work at Carnegie Tech was 
covered in four years as a student in 
the Department of Building Construc
tion, majoring, in his last two years, 
in the study of Sheet Metal Construc
tion.
MODERN EQUIPMENT
FEATURE OF NEW GYM
(Continued From Page One.) 
chalked up on the ledger of both 
teams. Bastian made a substantial 
advance with the ball, and then the 
invincible pair, Robertson and Brum
my, got busy and took the ball the 
rest of the way down the field, the 
former running through the entire To
ledo team for 15 yards and the touch
down. Cy Comfort this time kicked 
goal. In this quarter, Toledo carried, 
the ball for a first down, then had 
to punt. On the first play after Rob
ertson had taken the ball back a good
ly distance toward the enemy goal, 
Sliriitzer recovered a fumble, and with 
a clear field ahead, raced across the 
Plaid line. Stick failed at goal. Score 
at end of first half, 13-0.
The third quarter again saw the 
Ohioans held scoreless, while the Tar
tans ripped through for another 
touchdown. Robertson was again tho 
vehicle, and carried the ball over on 
an off-tackle run. Comfort failed at 
the try for goal. This completed the 
scoring for the third period.
. At tlio start of the final session, 
Brummy received the pigskin three 
times in succession, and hit the line 
each time for good gains. He and 
Robertson then took turns at the bus
iness of advancing the ball and on 
the _flnal play, Robertson ran around 
left end for liis third touchdown. 
Comfort added an extra point by kick
ing goal.
In tills quarter, McCarthy relieved 
Robertson and started off auspaciously by ripping off a couple of pretty 
runs, ono of which was for 48 yards 
and took the leather to the Toledo 3- 
yard line/ With the Tartans all set 
for a touchdown, McCarthy fumbled 
and Stiffney recovered and ran 95 
yards for a touchdown. Stick failed 
at goal.
After Anderson had received the 
kickoff from Stick, the ball was onco 
more taken to the Toledo 3-yard line 
by McCarthy and Eaton, who substi
tuted for Brumbaugh. After McCar
thy had picked up another, yard at 
center, Eaton took the ball across for 
the final touchdown of the game. Pitt
man, playing for Newman, failed to 
register the extra point.
Moessner kicked off to Alexander, 
and shortly after, the game ended. 
Robertson was the most consistent 
ground gainer f6r Carnegie, and 
Brumbaugh was usually to be depend
ed upon to tear great holes in the 
enemy line. As lias been-intimated, 
Steffen sent in several substitutes in 
the final quarter, and all of these 
men showed up well.
For the enemy, Jim Pierce, a, tall, 
lanky Negro, was a giant on the de
fense and showed probably more tack
ling ability than any other man on 
the Toledo eleven.
The Pittsburgh papers commented 
on the cheering of the Skibo rooters, 
and we wish to compliment the cheer 
leaders on that score. The Kiltie 
band was there in full uniform, and 
it was a, colorful scene to behold 
when said band led the snake dance 
, between halves. A hardy band of 
fair rooters joined the boys in the 
first snake dance of the year.
The lineup: ,
Tech32. Toledo12.
Hable ................L. E____ D. Alexander
Zelt ......................L. T.......................... Ford
Comfort .............L. G................ Crockett
Taylor ....................C................... Stiffney
Gilbert .................R. G......................... Hook
Yoder ..................R. T..................... Pierce
ICristof ...............R. E........................ Reed
Robertson ........Q. B... W. Alexander
Bastian .............L. II............... Sclinitzer
Anderson ...........R. I-I..................... Korlan
Brumbaugh .... .F. B...................... Stick
,Score by quarters:
Carneglo Tech .0 7 0 1382
Toledo University ....0 6 0 012
Substitutions  Toch, Fischer for 
Hable, Goodwin for Fischer, Moessner 
for Comfort, Predmore for Taylor, 
McCarthy for Robertson, Newman for 
Bastian, Pittman for Newman, Eaton 
for Brumbaugh; Toledo, Haggerty for 
Ford, Mercer for Crockett, Hoover for 
Hock, Kazmier for Kerlan.
TouchdownsRobertson 3, Schnitzer, Stiffney, Eaton, Brumbaugh.
Goals from touchdownComfort 2.
OfficialsReferee, Bloom; umpire, 
Taggart; head linesman, Brooks.
Time of quarters20 and 15 min
utes.
(Continued From Page One.) 
side of the building, will be forty feet 
wide and eighty feet long.
On the upper floor of the mens sec
tions will be a gym ninety by one 
hundred eighty-five, spacious enough 
to accommodate four handball courts, 
the center one to be sixty by ninety. 
The capacity of the room will provide 
for the seating of 2500 people. One 
end will be occupied by a large plat
form to be used as a stage.
The progress of tlie building is be
ing watched with great interest by 
both faculty and student body. . Its 
completion may be expected by next 
March.
M. M. ALUMNI CLEAR $125
AT FIRST DANCE OF SEASON
The Sod Busters Dance,- given by 
the M. M. C. C., Alumni, was report
ed a great success, socially as well 
as financially. They cleared $125.00 
and had one of the largest crowds 
the Union has ever seen. President 
W. S. Baker was a patron and Dean 
Brown and Miss Mary B. Breed were 
patronesses.
Fathers Day to be 
New Tradition Here
Game With Lehigh Will 
Start New Annual Affair
What did you think of the' idea 
when you read about it in last weeks 
Tartan? Does it not fill a long-felt 
want in the social calendar at Car
negie?
Mother ought to like it too, for per
haps it will be her first visit to Car
negie, and although you have told her 
all about your experiences while vou 
were in school, it will be, neverthe
less, a great treat for her and father 
to come back with you on Fathers 
Day. Then they can see all the spots 
that you have often mentioned and 
many of the familiar characters whom 
you so fondly described to your par
ents when you returned home from 
school.
The committee in charge has 
planned a lot of good stunts and they 
are doing their darndest to make the 
event worth your wrhile. If your time 
is worth money it will pay you to 
come back on Fathers Day, for it 
would cost a lot more to receive the 
same amount of fun and good times 
at the club or the theater. The Carnegie-Leliigh football game alone will 
be eminently worth your while.
The faculty, administration, and stu
dents are backing the movement al
most to a man. How about you, Alum
ni? If you will support the committee 
by turning out the one hundred per 
cent, the event will be a greater suocess, and Fathers Day will become a 
tradition at Carnegie. Better come!
You are not worth a dam. said tho 
engineer to the small stream.Sento.
Certainly!Every student needs a. 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
GO TO THE
Helen: Do you like codfish balls? j 
Bob: I dont know, I never went|| 
to any.Cento.
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS
Five Barbers at your service.
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CRAIG
NO one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them 
 for their quality 
instantly wins ap
preciation.
ORIGINAL
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
Make Your College Paper
Write your copy on a Remington Portable. 
Clean, legible copy will catch the editor. Use the 
machine also for your everyday work and personal 
correspondence. You will be surprised how much 
time and labor it will save.
Compactfits in a case only four inches high.
Convenientyou can use it on your lap, if you wish, for it 
carries its table on its back.
Completewith four-row keyboard, like the big machines, and 
other big machine conveniences.
Pricc, complete with case, $60. Easy payment terms if desiredRemington
Remington Typewriter Co. 
102 Sixth Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
