The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 14, January 27, 1981.
Price Fixing
University vs. Fulton: tentative
agreement reached
by Melody Mazzie
Steve Fulton, a recent mechanical engi
neering graduate, made a tentative agree
ment with the university concerning his 
price fixing lawsuit. Pulton initiated his 
case after he learned that CMU was charg
ing eight cents over the list price on every' 
can of soda sold at university vending 
machines.
According to Fulton, the eight cents per 
can overhead figure, used to cover, util
ity, space, and maintenance costs, is being 
negotiated between the school and the 
machine owners. The negotiated figure 
ought to result in an overhead cost of four or 
five cents instead of eight cents per can.
Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Serviin soda lawsuit
ces, drew up a new vending machine policy.
According to the new policy, a depart
ment or CMU organization may, under 
written agreement with Auxiliary Services, 
have a vending machine in a departmental 
area. There are two options: The depart
ment or organization may operate the 
machine and thereby determine the selling 
price; or, Vending Services, a department of 
Auxiliary' Services, may operate the machine 
and set the selling price. In the first case, the 
department/organization is permitted to 
use the remaining revenues as it chooses. In 
the latter, Vending Services shares the benef
its and risks of operating the machine with 
the requesting department.
continued on page 5
Senate freezes GSOs funds
by Jennifer Hutton
The budget of the Graduate Student 
Organization (GSO) was increased and fro
zen from use at last Wednesdays Student 
Senate meeting.
The GSO/ Senate Study Committee made 
a motion to allocate thirty-seven percent of 
the activits fee payed by full-time graduate 
students directly to GSO. This motion was 
made with the stipulation that, undergrad
uate students would be welcome to the activ
ities which the GSO schedules for the entire 
university community.
Richard Hanusek, spokesman for the 
GSO/Senate Study Committee, stated that 
the remaining 63% of the graduate students 
activities fee will remain under the Senates 
jurisdiction and will be allocated to student 
activities such as The Tartan, WRCT, AB, 
and T histleactixities that are participated 
in both by graduates and undergraduates. 
Thirty-seven percent of the graduate student 
bodys fifty dollar activities fee would result 
in approximately $19 600 for GSOs use.
The freezing of GSOs funds concerns the 
organizations violation of the aforementi
oned stipulation to include undergraduates 
in GSO functions. Hanusek, the Chair
man of Student Senates Finance committee,
photo by Koix rt /.usman 
Mercury, th only metal which is liquid at roani temp
erature, con cause brain damage.
Bud Mall denied assistant professorship
by Alice Alfonsi
Concerned architecture students have 
submitted a petition to Louis Sauer, head of 
the architecture department and CMU Vice 
President Richard Van Horn. The petition 
expressed student concern over shop direc
tor Bud Mall. It read as follows:
We the undersigned, realizing the 
importance of the shop to our architectural 
education and the value of having Bud Mall 
work and teach in the shop, support the 
recommendations of the Bud Mall Commit
tee that [he] be awarded an assistant profes
sorship with all the resposibilities and 
privileges due that position.
by Bob HanLast week more mercury was discovered 
by the loading dock of the fourth sub
basement of Doherty Hall. Robert Andregg, 
the campus safety officer in charge of 
cleaning up the mercury; said this was not 
another spill, but mercury that was missed 
in the original November clean-up.
A second mercury clean-up was intitiated 
after John Alexander, Student Government 
President, mentioned at the January 19th 
Trustees meeting that some mercury 
droplets remained.
It is apparent that a small amount of 
mercury seeped under the threshold of a 
door by the loading dockinside Doherty 
Hall.
The mercury on the floor was cleaned up 
and holes were drilled in the ceiling to drain
Out of roughly 275 undergraduates, 206 
students had signed the petition. Sauer met 
with a number of student government repre
sentatives, people interested in the shop, and 
Dean Swank on January 16, and he held a 
follow up meeting on January 21. Sauer 
decided not to honor the petition and his 
origional offer to Mall of a combined title 
of Shop Director and Adjunct Assistant Pro
fessor still stands.
Sauer explained that he has a limited 
number of full-time positions open. Mall 
could apply for any existing position, but 
Sauer is not at liberty to create full-time 
positions. Sauer feels he is giving Mall the
out any mercury that may have been there. 
Andregg estimated that about a pint was 
cleaned out of the ceiling.
Efforts were then made to trace the source 
of the mercury along pipes and conduits. A 
chemistry storeroom, two floors above the 
loading dock is believed to be the soun e of 
the spill.
Since the equipment is not being used, 
the chemistry department is dismantling it 
and removing the mercury'.
A problem was encountered in the 
original attempt to clean up the spill. A 
vacuum type device used to pick up mercury 
droplets was locked up in Mellon Institute 
and the person responsible for the necessary' 
key could not be reached. Physical plant has 
recently acquired a similar device.
opportunity to maintain a strong shop and 
teach.
The individual projects course which 
Mall has declined to teach is still not under
way. Seventeen students signed up for the 
course. The department has been talking to 
a number of people in the Pittsburgh area, 
including two industrial design graduates 
from CMU, who could teach the course. 
Mall here since 1973
Raymond (Bud) Mall has held a staff posi
tion at the CMU architecture shop since 
1973. Malls staff job has evolved into a 
teaching position in which he has served on 
architecture juries and in the grading and 
evaluation of students. Mall participated in 
the freshman Introduction to Architec
ture program and has taught an independ
ent shop project course.
Because Malis responsibilities were grow
ing, in 1979, he requested a special faculty 
appointment from the Committee on Reap
pointment, Promotion and Tenure. This
request was shelved because the committee 
continued on page 4
In this issue...
News
Work-study future questioned .... page 5
MM storefronts update.................page 18
Features
El Salvadorian viewpoint...............page 7
The Threes Company Irfe.........page 9
Entertainment
A Class Act.......................................pagi* 11
CMU Jazz Ensemble......................page 11
Sports
CMU men stay on top.................page 15
Intramurals underway...................page 17
More mercury discovered
Chemical storeroom possible source
moved to freeze GSO funds after posters 
which advertised a GSO sponsored movie 
neglected to both invite undergraduates and 
to say funded by Student Senate.
Hanusek stated that the funds would be 
freed when all the GSO officers submitted a 
formal apology' to The Tartan.
Hanusek said he felt this action was necescontinued on page 5
^ photo by Robert Zusman
3 CMU workers were caught m the act as they attempted to bury this bulldozer in front of Warner Hall last week.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Breaching the rules of simple etiquette
When you are a guest in someones house 
you dont insult the cat. You dont point out 
the worn carpet and you dont complain if 
your hosts eat dinner at four-thirty. The cat 
wont go away, there is probably not enough 
money for a new carpet and old habits, no 
matter how annoying or mindless, are hard to 
break. If youre at all sensitive, you refrain 
yourself from expressing your opinion when 
the only possible result is hard feelings.
Then why is everyone making fun of Pitts
burgh? Why do we keep insulting the Steelers, 
which wont go away, the pollution when we 
know perfectly well that the money is just not 
there to help it, and that accent, an annoying 
habit to be sure, but remember your own glass 
city.
Less than 50% of the frshman class is from 
Pennsylvania for the first dme in the schools 
history. This fact is attributed to a concerted
effort to get a greater representation of...stu
dents from other states. If this means the 
praises of Camegie-Mellon are being sung 
near and far, then we all deserve to be congratu
lated. Still, we cannot forget where we are.
A student was once heard in the line at the 
automatic teller to say, The banking 
machines work much faster in New York 
Well, almost every thing goes faster in New' 
York City and almost everything goes slower 
in Atlanta. Baldmore is cleaner and Detroit is 
dirtier. There is more to do in Boston and there 
is less to do in St. Louis. The point is that this 
is not New York or Atlanta or Detroit; this is 
Pittsburgh and this is where we are.
Those of us from out of state are neither 
taxpayers nor registered voters in Pennsylva
nia, and therefore have no legal right to sug
gest how the city and state should spend its tax 
dollars. We do, however, as free cidzens have 
the Consdtuuonal right to offer our construc
tive answers to the regions problems, but it is 
wise to make sure that someone has asked a 
question.
If we listen carefully, questions come up for 
us all the dme, quesdons that demand an 
aswer from us. Issues of financial aid, fine arts 
support and utility costs affect us directly, and 
we would be foolish if we did not at least 
consider them.
Still, we condnue answering quesdons no 
one has asked. No one asked what any of us 
thought of the Steelers. Unfortunately, the line 
between questions that deserve our attention 
and those that deserve our respect is somedmes 
all too thin. We might have to resign ourselves 
to the twenty-one year old drinking age, but we 
dont ever have to accept anything as banal as a 
State Store.
The less we complain about the cat, the 
more our hosts will listen when they ask us 
how to get rid of the mice.
?
From the Editors Desk
Concluding: No pearls, truth or invectives
Conclusion is one of those words that is 
fraught with meaning. For me today, con
clusion means an endan end of my tenure 
as editor-in-chief and the end of my time at 
CMU. Ends, like beginnings, are loaded 
with bittersweet feelings: sadness at leaving 
an organization that, for all intents and pur
poses, has served as my closest friend, and 
excitement at moving on to a whole world 
of new experiences.
But conclusion can also mean answerssolutions to puzzles that are on our minds. 
Acting as e-in-c has furnished me with the 
opportunity to think about the many puz
zles of life here at CMU; however, as one 
Tartan e-in-c said a few years ago, a year in 
this position doesnt automatically end tie 
one to be able to come to a conclusion-- nor 
does four years of college. But I do feel safe in 
saying that I have learned a lot about myself
and the people around me.
I have learned that while the problems of 
student safety and health may go practically 
unnoticed at CMU, a tongue-in-cheek 
change in TheTartan logo elicits a storm of 
controversy.
Ive learned that an administration that 
professes concern for students one day, acts 
thoughtlessly the next implementing policy 
decisions that disrupt various aspects of stu
dent life.
Ive learned that a student body with legit
imate complaints about tuition costs, hous
ing conditions, poor facilities, and the 
ability of their professors to teach, fail to take 
those complaints to anybody who may be 
able to help change things  Student 
Senate, The Tartan or the administration.
I have learned that while many students 
grumble about our governments lack of
concenr for young people, few take the time 
to voice their opinions by simply voting.
I have no conclusions to offer about any 
of these things. I prefer to think, however, 
about the concern we all seem to have about 
these problems within ourselvesthe idea 
that many of us may be directing our ener
gies in the wrong direction and spending 
four years thinking about and doing the 
wrong things. But I am hopeful because, as 
most of us know, the first step in solving a 
problem is recognizing there is one.
Those of you who were expecting a 
stream of invectives from me directed at 
those who are probably deserving, must be 
disappointed by now. And those of you who 
are waiting for pearls of wisdom or truth 
will be waiting a long time. I cant be so 
presumptuous, for the most important 
thing Ive learned here is that there is so
much more to leam.
So the only pearl I can offer today is the 
belief that we must continue asking ques
tions about ourselves and about our world-- 
whether it be the small world of CMU or tKe 
much larger and infinitely more complex 
real world.
Finally, I would like to thank all those 
people-- students, faculty and 
administratorswho have helped and 
encouraged this editorial board in our 
efforts with The Tartan, and I wish the best 
of luck to those who will be continuing 
these efforts in the future.
Susan Borg is a senior majoring in 
professional writing.
HOW IN TH HeOC 
AIA I SUPPOSED 10 
KP $500 IN NVYamm Acomr?
well Be mn 
to und n to
you FOR 21%/
*
m
Editor-in-Chief......................................Susan Borg
Managing Editor..................  Dong Kirsop
Business Manager...........................Karen Stevens
News Editor....................................... Jim Balsom
Features Editor.............................Renee Rosenfeld
Entertainment Editor.............Richard Gorelick
Sports Editor......................................... Wes Seeley
Dossier Editor ...................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editor.......................Robert Zusman
Art Directors................,..................... Craig Otto
Tom Weinkle
Production Manager...............................Bob Harr
Editorial Assistant ...............................Bob Leighty
Associate News Editor..................Jeanne Abrnayr
Production Staff.............................Vince Guinto
Mike Heaney
Copyright  Il>S0 by The Tartan. The Ktlito* 
Board reserves the right to withhold f>nl 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication 
Funded in part by the Student Government 
(larnegie-Mel Ion t'niversity, Pittsburg!'- 
Pennsylvania I.>2I3. Kditorial Offices: Skibo ^ 
( 112) ">78-2111. Business Offices: Skibo r>2.< 112) *>7H2111.21 hour phone. (112) '78-21 IS.
All rights reserved.J

---------------------------------------------------

January 27, 1981The TartanPage 3
Letters
We love Coke outings!
Editor:
The staff, students and faculty members 
of the Psychology Department would like to 
take this opportunity to express their grati
tude to the Graduate students who are 
responsible for the maintenance of the 
COKE MACHINE. These students have 
done an excellent job and their efforts as 
well as their COKE MACHINE spon
sored outings are much appreciated.
Good luck to all of you in the future and 
thanks for being your natural fun loving, 
kind hearted selves.
The Psychology Department
Plant propaganda?
Editor:
Last week the Jewish community cele
brated the holiday colloquially known in 
Hebrew as Tu BShevat, the fifteenth day of 
the month of Shevat in the Hebrew calandar. This is the Jewish Arbor Day, a holiday 
in honor of trees and plants in general, fore
shadowing the coming growing season. It 
has become customary among many Jews to 
use this as an occasion to finance the plant
ing of trees in Israel, and so the local Bnai 
Brith Hillel had a table in Skibo where 
persons could give money for this purpose. I 
was quite disturbed, however, by one aspect 
of this table.
As part of the display at the table, there 
were a few copies of a poster showing what 
was supposed to be the State of Israel. Unfor
tunately, the poster showed a picture of an 
area that included not only the State of Israel 
proper, but also the West Bank and the 
Golan Heights, without even so much as a 
dotted boundary line indicating that these 
were areas under temporary military occu
pation. Indeed, the major regions shown 
were labeled Judea and Samaria, the names 
of the old Roman provinces, traditionally 
used by the most revanchist elements in 
Israeli society to denote that territory which 
they believe is theirs by ancient Biblical 
right.
Considering that Israel has not formally 
annexed these territories, that within Israel 
there is considerable opposition to the 
annexation of these territories, and that the 
rest of the world is clearly not about to recog
nize any Israel annexation of these territo
ries, I wonder by what right the local Bnai 
Brith Hillel decides to post maps that show 
these territories as an integral part of the 
Israeli state. I must dissent from this typical 
instance of uncritical support for the most 
expansionist (sic) forces in Israeli politics 
offered by the leadership of the Jewish com
munity in the United States.
It is ironic that a holiday that is supposed 
to celebrate something as symbolic of peace 
as plant life is used, however subtly, as an 
occasion for propaganda on behalf of an 
illegal policy of conquest by force that even 
the Israeli government has not yet dared to 
make official. To the aspirations of every 
Palestinian who wishes to return to share at 
least a part of the land that is a important to 
him as it is to many Jewish people, this can 
represent only another blow to his identity 
and national rights. It is a shame to see trees,
from whose wood houses can be built and 
other peaceful construction can develop, 
being used instead as weapons to further a 
bellicose policy.
S/ui/om( Peace), 
Daniel M. Rosenblum
Letter Policy
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If. they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.
Students, faculty and administra
tors are invited to submit their views as a 
guest columnist on the op-ed page. 
Columns should be in clear, concise 
English and should be submitted on 2-3 
typed pages by the Thursday prior to 
publication.
What do Reagans opinions really mean?
Now that Ronald Reagan has been 
president for a week, perhaps is is a good 
time to analyze where he stands on some key 
issues. In view of space constraints, each 
issue will be extremely generalized, almost 
to the simplistic level of a television network 
news broadcast.
Taxes: With Social Securitys increase and 
inflation giving Americans the largest tax 
hike in history, a cut would indeed be 
feasible and productive. However, the 30% 
Kemp-Roth cut has some serious flaws; it is 
too inflexible for a volatile American 
economy and without massive (and thus 
highly unlikely) budget cuts it would be 
extremely inflationary.
Budget: While the latest Carter budget is 
somewhat inflated, Reagan will never be 
able to make the massive general cuts he 
desires without damaging or possibly 
destroying many vital social programs. 
Without a general budget cut his supplyside economic plan will fail; his tax cut will 
be too big and inflation will soar.
Foreign Relations: Nothing in die 80s 
will be more dangerous than the cornered 
Soviet bear. Much of the Soviet empire is 
crumbling and if Reagan is careless, a 
dangerous confrontation between the 
superpowers is likely to develop. Reagan 
seems to misunderstand the U.S. role in 
Asia, Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere;
he and Secretary of State Haig both appear 
relatively indifferent to the problems of the 
third world which has most of our planets 
people and resources. Also, human rights in 
anti-communist countries appear to be gone 
for at least four years.
Bob 
Leighty
Defense: Many of Reagans proposals for 
improving the military are long overdue; 
however, he seems to think that simply 
throwing money at the Pentagon will solve 
many problems. This is unfortunate since 
the Pentagon has a reputation for creating 
complicated bureaucracies and expensive 
equipment which either fails to operate or 
becomes obsolete just after completion.
Cities: Reagan has not yet given specifics 
on how he will help the cities; one excellent 
proposal which he supports would give 
businesses tax breaks for locating in 
depressed areas.
Food Stamps and Welfare: Reagan 
promises to tighten eligability requirements 
for food stamps, which is certainly needed. 
With welfare, Reagan wants states to run 
their own programs-an idea which may 
work but is unproven.
Labor: He wants to reduce the authority 
of the federal government to set worker 
safety rules. While such a move could 
remove cumbersome red tape, it could also 
allow dangerous environments for many 
workers. Reagan also wants to reduce the 
minimum wage, which is a mixed blessing 
of jobs for some and less pay for most.
Environment: Secretary of Interior Watt 
has a dubious record on protecting the 
environment; Reagan himself wants to 
reduce the power of the EPA and relax the 
standards of the ten year old Clean Air Act. 
While some compromises between business 
and the environment need to be made, 
Reagan may erase some of our precious 
environmental progress in recent years.
Energy: While the Energy Department 
certainly needs to become more efficient, 
Reagan shows his lack of foresight by 
wanting the department abolished. It is true 
that we need to boost domestic energy 
production as Reagn claims; it is also true 
that we need a well run Energy Department 
to coordinate future policy.
Education: This story is similiar to 
energy, as Reagan wants to abolish this 
department. Education needs coordination, 
planning and cabinet-level voice in 
government. Education is our future; while 
the department should be streamlined, 
Reagan should not dismantle one of the 
Carter administrations few achievements.
Social Security: Carters solution to Social 
Securitys financial woes was not a solution- he simply raised taxes. Reagan has not yet 
given details on hew he will save the system 
from bankruptcy. Social Security was 
created .as a supplement to retirement 
income, not a federal pension plan. If it is to 
remain a supplement, benefits should 
remain the same while the eligability age is 
slowly increased from 65 to 68. If it is to be a 
pension plan, taxes must be raised sky high
to pay for it. We cant have both; a decision 
must be made soon by the Reagan 
administration.
These are just a few of the many tough 
issues which President Reagan must deal 
*vith in the immediate future. The pomp 
and pagentry of the inauguration is over; 
reality has begun.
Bob Leighty is a junior majoring in 
Technical Writing and Editing and is the 
editorial assistant for The Tartan.
We Need You!!!
The Tartan needs writers, editors, cartoonists, 
illustrators, designers, production people and 
anybody who wants to help put this newspaper 
together. Stop by our offices in Skibo rooms 
50-52.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
Bureau of Mines acquisition and future discussed
U.S. 6 U ft f A U OF MIMES PLAT PLAN
*PTNMNSX NLXVAIPTNMSXLVAMIA
by Greg Pisocky
Negotiations are now in progress between 
Camegie-Mellon University officials and 
representatives of the United States Depart
ment of the Interior concerning the exact 
details of the acquisition of the Bureau of 
Mines facility on Forbes Avenue. Represent
ing the University are Fred Rogers, Director 
of Business and Finance; Donal Pierucci, 
Director of Design and Construction; and 
Bryon Falchetti, Space and Facilities 
Planner.
Authorization for these negotiations 
comes from the Bureau of Mines Bill (H.R. 
7385) which was signed into law by Presi
dent Jimmy Carter on December 17, 1980.
The bill stipulates the sale is to be at fair 
market value or a minimum of $5.4 mil
lion. Plans for use of the buildings are not 
set at this time, though some ideas are being 
considered.
The advantage of the facility, in Rogers 
words, is its a natural and useful extension 
for enlarging the University. Tentative 
plans include the possibility of moving ser
vice functions out of Porter Hall, such as
Campus Printing and Physical plant. 
Research facilities could be located at the 
Bureau making more academic space. 
Another option concerns leasing space to 
the Department of Labor or Mine Safety and 
Health Administration.
There are roughly 200,000 square feet of
space available in the ten structures. The 
University interest centers on six of these 
designated as A, B, C, D, E, and F.
Building A is the largest. It is the main 
building along Forbes Avenue. Within its 
115,000 square feet are an auditorium and 
laboratory space, the facade and the interior 
of this building are similar to present cam
pus structures because both the CMU cam
pus and Bureau were originally designed by 
the same architect, Henry Hombostel, 
prominent architect in his day.
Building B, situated behind A, is smaller, 
consisting of 20,000 sq. feet that is primarily 
office space.
More laboratory and office space com
prises the remaining buildings, all behind A 
and B. Ther are also a number of garage and 
vehicle repair areas.
Mall still shop director, denied asst, professorship
continued from page 1
beliex'ed that it raised a much larger issue of 
departmental policy on such special faculty 
appointments.
In the summer of 1980, Mall was ordered 
to build a darkroom, a task which he felt was 
not within his job description. Mall filed a 
grievance with the Grievance Review Com
mittee which led to a dispute over his job 
description, so Mall restated his request for a 
special faculty appointment.
As a result of Malis request, Sauer 
appointed an ad hoc committee to review
the special appointment request. On 
October 22, 1980, the Bud Mall Commit
tee recommended that Raymond Mall be 
appointed to a three year term as Assistant 
Professor in the department of architecture 
retroactive to the beginning of academic 
year 1980-81 with review in the third year.
Sauer reviewed the committees recom
mendations and on December 3 offered Mall 
a combined title of Shop Director and 
Adjunct Assistant Professor. An adjunct 
assistant professor is a part time job, usually 
14 hours per week.
Mall answered Sauer in a letter dated
December 8 which stated: Your offer 
neither satisfies my expectations, request, or 
professional career objectives. Nor does it 
confirm to the spirit of the ad hoc commit
tees recommendation dated October 22,
1980. Therefore it is unacceptable...My 
request and original grievance sull stand. 
Sauer then answered Mall by confirming 
his status in the department. Because you 
have declined my offer of a combined posi
tion of Shop Director and Adjunct Assistant 
Professor, you will continue to hold the 
position of Shop Director, which is a full 
time staff appointment. Sauer said he does
not consider the discussion closed.
Sauer also sent a job description to Mall 
which stated his duties as a Shop Director. 
The staff position does not include any 
teaching on Malls part, so Mall declined to 
teach his Independent Project Shop Course.
Concerned students felt that Malis posi
tion should be a full time assistant professor
ship on the tenure track. One student 
mentioned that if Mall were to leave, over 
half the shop would go with him because
Mall has brought in a lot of shop equipment  
for student use.
FOOD AND DRINK
A Snap To MakeEven In A Dorm
Hot Chocolate 
With A Latin Beat
CMU 
Karate Club
Announces 
beginners classes 
January 27
When the night is frosty, heat things up with this delicious, 
fragrant brew inspired south-of-the-border. Based on that old 
favorite, Hersheys unsweetened cocoa, Brazilian Hot Chocolate 
is a snap to make. Flavor is rich and super-chocolatey, with a 
tantalizing touch of mocha. Ole!
BRAZILIAN HOT CHOCOLATE
Vi cup Hersheys unsweetened cocoa 
V* cup sugar
1 tablespoon instant coffec granules 
Vi teaspoon ground cinnamon
Vi teaspoon salt 
Vi cup hot tap water 
3 Vi cups milk 
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Combine cocoa, sugar, coffee, cinnamon and salt in saucepan. 
Blend in hot water. Bring to boil over medium heat, stirring 
constantly. Then boil, still stirring, for 2 minutes. Add milk and 
heat, stirring, to serving temperature. Do not boil. Beat in vanilla 
with rotary beater or spoon, to create a foamy surface. Serve 
immediately, in heatproof mugs. Makes 6 servings.
class hours are 
7 to 9 Tues & Thurs 
11:30 - 1:30 Saturday 
Thistle Hall

---------------------------------------------------

January 27, 1981The TartanPage 5
Financial aid
Work Study future questioned
*
by Janelle Molloy
Approximately 800,000 dollars of the one 
million work study budget has already been 
spent, but a CMU financial aid spokesper
son would not confirm reports that the 
money will run out before the end of the 
semester.
Ann Ruddy, Assistant Financial Aid 
Director, assures members of the campus 
community that they will be notified if this 
danger is confirmed. 80% of work-study is 
funded by the Federal government.
Congress recendy passed the 1980 Higher 
Education Amendment which requires that 
work study students be paid minimum 
wage, rather than the 85% of minimum 
wage that they received previously. This 
amendment was passed without increasing 
work-study funds. Ruddy foresees no 
increase in work-study funds next year.
Approximately 40% of CMUs students 
are alloted work-study. While it is not cer
tain how these students will be affected, 
there is the possiblity that the University 
will make up the difference if work-study 
funds are exhausted.
Price Fixing
continued from page 1
The damages already incurred from 
r charging eight cents per can amounts to a 
| substantial figure. To make up for these 
5 damages, Fulton has suggested that the 
administration accept one of the following 
j plans: Either the overhead charge can be 
I totally abolished this semester, reducing the 
; price of soda pop to thirty-five cents, or the 
university can fund an event for the entire 
I school, such as a spring concert. Fulton 
spoke with the Activities Board, and they 
| suggested the possibility of getting Pat 
Benatar. According to Fulton, the magni
tude of the damages incurred could easily 
cover the expense.
Although Fulton graduated from CMU 
last semester, he lives in Pittsburgh and has 
stayed in touch with Auxiliary Services to 
ensure that the administration does not let 
the issue die. As Fultons settlement propos
als indicate, personal gain is not the primary 
issue. He feels that the administration often 
lets profit motives take priority over student 
needs in the decision making process.
Since Fulton has had to fight the adminis
tration alone, what he most hopes to achieve 
from this ordeal is more student awareness.
Approximately 2000 students have been 
allotted work-study. In order for a student to 
be eligible, he/she must complete a Finan
cial Aid Form and be determined as having a 
financial need. In order to obtain a workstudy job, students then must be interviewed 
by individual university employers and may 
work only until they have earned their allot
ted grant or until the school year ends.
Two years ago, work-study funds were 
used up before the end of the year, making 
summer work-study, from May through 
June, nonexistent. It did not run out last 
vear due to supplemental money which 
came from excesses in other colleges workstudy funds.Bummed out by classes? Looking for something to do? Perhaps we can offer you a suggestion?
New registration process
Enrollment by mail successful
by Julie Weinstein
Sixty percent of CMU students took 
advantage of enrollment by mail for the 
spring semester. Since most students are 
already registered and cleared by the cashier 
before classes begin, the new system was the 
next logical step for the administration to 
take.
The new system worked very well with 
over 3000 students participating. The regis
trars office received less than twenty phone 
calls from those who did not understand the 
process. There wasnt a single complaint 
about enrollment by mail, a most unusual 
response for an administrative change, says 
Harry Whitehead, Registrar.
Enrollment by mail is both cheaper and 
more effective than an enrollment day. The 
price of stamps was far below the cost of the 
additional staff needed to be at enrollment 
day, preparation for it, and the paperwork 
and three part 3D forms that have been 
necessary in previous semesters. Problems 
on enrollment day have been drastically 
reduced because of the number of students 
who took care of difficulties by mail. This
Funds frozen
condnued from page 1
sary since this was the second time GSO 
neglected to invite undergraduates and to 
mention that the acuvity was funded by Stu
dent Senate. The organizations first offense 
occured last semester on a poster advertising 
a party.
resulted in easy access to staff for those who 
still had problems. Fewer students were pre
vented from attending class because of enrol
lment difficulties than in previous semesters 
and statistics on enrollment became availa
ble almost immediately. In addiuon, stu
dents who took advantage of the process 
enjoyed an extra day of vacation.
It is expected that in two or three semes
ters, enrollment by mail will be a smooth, 
efficient system for the registrars office as
well as for students. In the coming year, 90% 
of students ought to be enrolled by mail, 
including those who pay their bills after the 
usual deadline.
Ready to teach home nursing,
first aid,parenting,
childcare,watersafety,
CPR.
Red Cross:
Ready for a new century.
HIS FIRST YEAR OUT OF COLLEGE.FRANK QUACKENBUSH RENOVATED THREE BUILDINGS, WORKED ON A DAM, PAVED A ROAD, AND BUILT TWO CHOPPER MDS.
the DANCE GALLERY
Jane! Gillespie - Director
Day and evening classes 
Ballet and Modem Dance
420 N. Craig SI 
Pgh. Pa.682 -3179
2nd Lt. Frank Quackenbush majored in civil 
engineering at the University of Arizona and was 
a member of Army R0TC.
"Most of the engineers I grad
uated with probably wound up as an 
assistant engineer to somebody else. 
Maybe doing the details for somebody 
elses design or supervising some 
small aspect of construction.
But my first year as an 
Engineer Lt., Ive designed many of 
my own projects and supervised the 
construction on everything from 
baseball dugouts to the concrete work 
on a dam. Earthmoving, grading, fill
ing, paving, concrete work, masonry 
you name it, Ive supervised it.
Whether I stay in the 
Army or go into civilian construction 
work later, Ive got experience that 
some engineers won t have when 
theyre 30!"
Army ROTC got Frank 
Quackenbush off to a good start in his 
field. It can do the same for you 
whether you re a civil engineer or an 
English major. For more information 
stop by the Army RCTC office cm 
campus.
And begin your future as 
an officer.ARMY ROTC BE ALL YOU CAN BL
At CMU
see Captain Hans Heiser 
Room B5 Margaret Morrison
L

---------------------------------------------------

Judcu^, JartutaAQ 3c /9B/
Dm/L Jtrhnv, 
J'/Vt yiAs&C s^ejjawl (furm a $A<brruy s--tunwvv ^ OC 
rncwU rr\ tfunJi 'tyiriA. fny surom fa,to cu Arjx awv(
$4 d AAnivrnt'r -
'm eUvrv AMMUy to Mercu ryieW. M'J fyuxZJki BecuJ) 
parity Wttsk&nd, cvrvd J wzvrvt ft faU ihc Aonc( aycuristf'
nv <yk'W. W The Asprvi /went Jwrt.
ZfihMi&'d' <* -foanfaj. forUytvt cut thx t&mm&ru JiAo^ndd 
//fr Yltfitvi'ifrt JitMsdttsnJ. \t tavsc/ aX 9'j i<> J ooyyy 
aJbiUMitj Jwd,*i the shat crfy th zind 'J'fot ^ou^ut " 
WirwYitf Jvtmd and ^af rWun-u^i Ac 'wi^ &iMy<rnjL 
to cA/i/^ (/isfo ~tPi -rccicfi, J) /ye S y,tuMhohnlmh
l/rv m7Vc( .
2 (f Am'/f the rtb&Ur arwisqdpM paM j cUlj cv^i 
/yu^iMhr cet thi /fraAXty to yirvrt fax fiu/nd1>uj
jpia/yu Aotuf to ft&vuf &jyiyuj Dm/LJtr h to' Usnfomi Mmdt comi &pa4y, 'vvzvyea ?th
<yn llb , J'/m (ftwvvc^ fo Visir) 'fpwrce, tiych^C^,
fi/n<f tfat tnu en c&mj&cteL, hamms
a fnUs'O bxasn CcmXt'tt', AAhf aX ihjt ^
wCuJi l^tni eniM re Jwu Jto JVo coze 6g.BM4 Jisvt^)
nm-t crt* ~fo 'itri'1, m
^pfuxl Thartn, '\vX&k/nc( islhc J!rc xx) jo-t/ifayt i^tru
aUUMjMrt, Jcrfvn , Tcm&rroMJ, fMNFEha3h J\Ju(^xr, s DC 
a/) ${urw\rvfy ihe nuirie " "fn^LU^i Search * fhjrc cu~c 
rvurrVL (?J ?, 8, )o, anoi /zt (incf. ScuUty cvnd $ aw
fycvrv & h feu G 'dUrtJe shew, J} 'nrt Ji<xwt nes fruyi-x 
(A lAslt 'wvtd
CoUpk kO At fyrt to o K^rvxJ. ^Ph. AioMJrU feecO'cA 
f/ytfi aX /; oo frnd J Awiyr'f eo-e?? n^ct.
J)OsrtMsru, vwtb ScMy mrt/ rwycr It cu fan aX 
(jiawCArvft fWiytb n^ru. Sut J tun aAv^u^j xcWWud i
i/nn,

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
El Salvador
CMU students tell of life amid political and social upheaval
Have you ever been stopped at gunpoint by the 
police for being out after 7 p.m.... seen a classmate 
dying of a gunshot wound ... or found a bomb in 
vour car?
San Salvador, the 400 year old capital city of El Salvador and the second largest city m Central America, is currently 
the center of violent rioting and bombing.
for much of the violence in his country. 
The Jesuits put the seed of communism in 
the young people of El Salvador; most of the 
leaders of the communist party were 
teachers at my high school, and the five 
communist leaders that were recently killed 
by rightists were killed while they held a
meeting at the school, he said, adding that 
he was brought up by the Jesuits, and 
believe me they are communists. We had to 
study Marx since tenth grade, do research on 
him and sit in classes about Marxist 
ideology.
Although he condemns the Jesuits, 
Francisco points out that he does not know 
if the whole Church is like that, but the 
Jesuits - I am sure they are communists. 
Roberto and Maria Eugenia agree with 
Francisco. Francisco also argues that the 
problem of El Salvador started as an internal 
one; now the problem is no longer internal. 
It is a foreign invasion centered in Cuba.
He also pointed out that it is not true 
that the guerillas are peasants fighting 
against the government; the guerillas are 
students, not peasants. Francisco was at 
home recently for Christmas, and says that 
the people who have saved the country 
from total destruction are the peasants and 
the middle class. Those people go on with 
business as usual, disregarding whatever is 
happening around them.
governments help to El Salvador was 
significant; it really isnt. The U.S. could be 
helping a lot more.
Asked whether they came to CMU 
because of the violence in their country, 
Roberto answered yes, while Francisco 
said that it was partly because of the 
situation in his country and pardy because 
of the quality of American education. Maria 
Eugenia said that her reason for studying 
the U.S. had nothing to do with the 
problems in El Salvador. But, he said, 
there are a lot of people in El Salvador who 
wish they could get out.
All of them said they would go back home 
after graduating provided the guerillas 
dont win. Francisco added, Those who 
leave El Salvador to get an education but 
dont return are not helping their country .
Although all three Salvadorians are very 
aware of their countrys problems and its 
causes, none of them could offer a possible 
solution. They think that one way the 
country can get back to normal is through a 
government which considers the needs of 
the peasants and which is firm enough to j 
resist the influence of the rightists in the 
army.
Roberto and Maria Eugenia looked on 
with worry and resignation as Francisco 
added, All I can say is that 30,000 people 
have been killed already and more will be 
before this is over.
The war has affected the Salvadorians at 
CMU personally also. Maria Eugenia has 
an uncle who was kidnapped and held in 
captivity for three months by the leftists. 
Roberto is the only surviving member of his 
old chemistry lab group. He also had a 
cousin killed by the terrorists, and was a 
witness to the kidnapping of the president of 
the Institute of Tourism of El Salvador.
Roberto says that One is always worried 
about ones family, and adds If I feel bad, 
how do you think the peasants who are 
exposed to losing their lives everyday feel? 
But Maria Eugenia points out that 
everybody is exposed to losing his life, not 
just the peasants. The situation is terrible.
Roberto explained how the terrorists once 
put a bomb in his car, which luckily didnt 
explode, and how they once found the 
bodies of 30 victims a block away from his 
house.
All three Salvadorians dunk that the 
coverage of the events in El Salvador by the 
U.S. media is just" and objective, but 
Maria Eugenia says that the U.S. 
newspapers make it seem as if the U.S.
The bodies of 30 victims 
were found a block away 
from my house. 
 Roberto Lacayo
by Luis Ball
Have you ever had a bomb put in your 
car? Have you ever had a relative kidnapped 
for 3 months? Have you ever seen a 
classmate dying of a gunshot wound, found 
30 bodies a block away from your house, or 
been stopped at gunpoint by the police for 
being out after 7 p.m.?
Most CMU students probably havent, 
but three have: Francisco Quesada, a CIT 
junior, Roberto Lacayo, a CIT sophomore, 
and Maria Eugenia Llach, a CFA freshman. 
These experiences are everyday life in El 
Salvador.
The Jesuits put the seed of 
communism in the young 
people of El Salvador. 
Most of the leaders of the 
communist party were 
teachers at my high 
school. 
 Francisco Quesada
El Salvador is the most densely populated 
country in the Western Hemisphere (527 
inhabitants per square mile), and one of the 
poorest, but its recent problems are a result 
of the social structure that existed in the 
country until recently.
According to Francisco Quesada, 14 
families controlled El Salvadors economy 
for over 50 years. According to an article in 
Foreign Affairs, until recently 14 families 
owned 60% of the farmland, the entire 
banking system, and most of the nations 
industry.
Throughout most of this century El 
Salvador was governed by army generals 
supported by the 14 families. In 1972 and 
1977 there were elections, both of which 
were won by the Christian. Democratic 
candidates, but both times the army rigged 
the results and established their own 
candidate as president.
In October, 1979 the dictator Humberto 
Romero was ousted in a bloodless coup led 
by two progressive colonels. The colonels 
quickly formed a ruling junta consisting of
three civilians and themselves; for awhile 
everybody was optimistic since the junta 
promised badly needed reforms and was 
willing to accept the support of the left.
Soon, however, it became obvious that the 
junta could not get rid of the rightists who 
had been accused of brutality while serving 
in the governments security forces. The 
junta showed no progress in implementing
the agrarian reform - that is the break up of 
the huge family owned states into small 
plots owned by the peasants.
Thus, in January, 1980, the junta 
dissolved after the entire cabinet resigned. 
One of the resigning cabinet members, 
Education Minister Salvador Samayoa, 
walked out of a press conference carrying a 
machine gun and promising to fight for 
total liberation.
Soon another junta was formed, this time 
led by the Christian Democrats, who 
quickly started to implement the agrarian 
reform and other progressive measures. 
ShorUy afterwards, however, killings began. 
The communists feared that the agrarian 
reform would undermine its support from
the peasants, and the rightists felt that they 
were being robbed of their property.
The killings soon developed into a threeway civil war, in which the rightists and the 
communists killed each other while they 
tried to overthrow the government at the 
same time.
Lately killings have increased to 200 per 
week. Even though the government of the 
newly appointed Christian Democrat 
President Napoleon Duarte is progressive 
and well intentioned, at least seven 
Americans have already been killed, five 
nuns included. The violence is not likely to 
decrease in the near future. On January 1 of
1981, the communist guerillas announced 
their final offensive - to topple the 
government.
There are a lot of people 
in El Salvador who wish 
they could get out. 
 Maria Eugenia Llach
i ne three Salvadorian students at CMU, 
Francisco, Roberto, and Maria Eugenia, 
have been affected by the war in their 
country. All three of them condemn the 
actions of both the rightists and the 
communists, and are primarily concerned 
with the possibility of a communist victory.
Francisco, a graduate of San Salvadors 
Jesuit high school, blames the Jesuit order

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
Pilot, doctor, lawyer, professor, prison inspector - 
successful con man to lecture on fraud and forgery
Frank W. Abagnale Jr., was the thief whose life in
spired the TV series, To Catch a Thief.
posed as a prison inspector and walked right 
out the door.
Frank Abagnale now tours the country on 
this side of the law, advising banks and busi
nesses on how to prevent fraud and forgery. 
He has appeared on the Mike Douglass 
Show, the Johnny Carson Show, the Phil 
Donahue Show and To Tell the Truth. To 
Catch a Thief, starring Robert Wagner, was 
a TV series based on Abagnales life.
A movie about his life starring Dustin 
Hoffman, Katherine Ross, Cybil Shephard 
and Genevieve Bujold is scheduled to be 
released next summer. His book, Catch Me 
If You Can, upon which the movie is based, 
is available in the CMU Bookstore. Frank 
will be available after his talk to autograph 
his book.
The CMU Hockey Club Presents:
THREE STOOGES FILM 
FESTIVAL
{Wednesday, Jan. 28 { 6, 8, 10 PM DH 2210  Admission $1
by Matt Corley
Frank Abagnale, master forger and con 
man extraordinaire, will be in the Skibo Ball
room Monday, February 2 at 8:00 p.m. to talk 
about his exciting life. Frank posed as an 
airline pilot, doctor, lawyer, and college pro
fessor all before the age of twenty-one, and 
conned the world out of 2lA million dollars. 
When he was finally caught he was wanted 
in all 50 states and 26 foreign countries.
Big Frank, as he calls himself, first entered 
a life of crime at the age of sixteen. Follow
ing his parents divorce he ran away and 
began to wander. After trying to get a job, he 
discovered that the truth didnt work so he 
tried things from a different perspective. He 
changed his manner, grayed his hair a tinge 
and could now pass for twenty-six. It was 
around this time he discovered how easy it 
was to write bad checks. This was not 
enough. One day, after seeing a group of 
Pan American pilots getting off a bus, he
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO 
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle 8c Buerger,*
Professional Corporation 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS (GREEN CARDS) 
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS
CITIZENSHIP
Pennsylvania does not recognize or cerltify legal s|x< ialities.
had a brilliant idea. Upon convincing offi
cials that he was a pilot who had lost his 
uniform, and forging an ID, he officially 
began working for Pan-Am as a co-pilot. 
This job enabled him to bounce Pan Am 
checks; on one good day he spent eight 
hours cashing bad checks at every airline 
counter in the airport.
Tired with the airlines, he moved to 
Atlanta and joined the staff of a new hospi
tal as a resident pediatrician, replacing a 
doctor who had resigned. Frank left after he 
became worried that he might be endanger
ing someones life.
Frank then moved to Louisiana. With an 
IQ of 136 and a photographic memory, he 
passed the bar exam on his third attempt. 
His alleged honors Harvard degree 
secured him a staff position in the state 
attorney generals office. In six months he 
won thirty-three cases. He had to leave when 
a real Harvard graduate began asking ques
tions. Still in Louisiana, he moved to 
Brigham Young University and was a col
lege professor for a while. He said he was 
fine as long as he read a chapter ahead of the 
students.
Shortly thereafter, he returned to the 
airlinesflying all over Europe and the 
United States, forging checks everywhere, 
and collecting over 2^> million dollars. The 
fun came to an abrupt halt when he was 
caught by Interpol in France. Twenty-six 
countries wanted him. He spent six months 
in a French prison and six months in a Swed
ish prison before returning to the U. S. to 
face charges. Back in the States, he escaped 
police three times. He is the only inmate ever 
to escape Adanta Federal Penitentiary. He

---------------------------------------------------

January 27, 1981The TartanPage 9
A male viewpoint of the 
Threes Company life
by Mitch Miller
Youre living with two girls? Which one 
are you sleeping with?
What do you mean which one ? I 
responded.
For the past four months I have been 
taking advantage of such situations to elicit 
both the amazement and jealousy of my 
male friends.
It looks impressive on the resume - 
between AIESEC and IM Football to 
list Threes Company.
However, society affords me no 
alternative to exaggerating my relationship 
with my roommates. Its just not socially 
acceptable or even credible for a male to have 
a platonic living arrangement with one or 
more females. I would lose a lot of respect 
and admiration if I were to reveal my true 
identity.
Perhaps the real reason that I am 
reluctant to tell people the truth, that I am a 
closet good boy (at least in this case), is 
that the next question they would ask me is 
Then whyre you living with a couple of 
girls?, and I just cant think of an answer to 
that.
When I was looking for a place to live last 
summer, these two chicks called me up, and 
asked me if I wanted to move in. After a brief 
deliberation (5 seconds) I said yes. I thought 
that it would be the greatest thing for my 
reputation since marijuana.
I didnt think that they would hang bras 
in the bathroom, and flowers in the living 
room. I didnt fully realize that they would 
put up a muppets calendar in the hallway. I 
never really expected to have a 24 by 36 John 
Travolta staring at me everytime I ate.
I regularly use the neighbors toilet and 
phone. Not that we dont have those tilings; 
we do. Its just that when God designed 
females, he gave them extremely powerful 
muscles in their jaws, and they feel 
compelled to exercise them often.
As for the bathroom, I dont know what 
goes on in there, and I dont think I want to. 
What I do know is that I cant even 
remember what the inside looks like.
If I hear one of them bitch about their 
excessive weight one more time, Im going 
to write a letter to Dear Abby. One of them 
weighs 110, and the other 95, but they seem 
obliged to tell me how fat they are - every five 
minutes. Perhaps thats the only noise their 
vocal cords can ejaculate after hours of 
abuse.
A couple of weeks ago, I was watching the 
AFC championship game on the little black 
and white TV we have. For three hours I was 
the recipient of looks that a Hatfield 
wouldnt have given a McCoy. It was then 
that I realized I would have to remain a 
closet good boy and continue to lie about 
my situation for quite awhile.
Why was I living with two girls, anyway?
1981 Housing Information
Who: Students presently living on campus
who want to reserve space in the 
dormitories for the fall of 1981.
What: Need to pay a $100 deposit.
Where: Cashier's Office-Warner Hall 
Concourse.
When: Monday, Feb. 2-Thursday, Feb. 19,
1981 (closed Sat. and Sun.)
Fall 1981 Housing Deposit 
Deadline 4:00 PM Thursday, Feb. 19
Everything a reader 
could want.
Fabulous Bargains on 
Popular Paperback 
and Hardcover Books 
Prices reduced up to 80%!
$ .99$1.99$2.49 beginning 
Jan. 27, 1981 
at the
CMU Bookstore
Summer arrives early
Malibu Beach party Friday
by Kathy Krummert
AB Dance is starting off their 1981 agenda 
of events with the Malibu Beach Party this 
Friday and two free round-trip plane tickets 
to Florida for spring break are up for grabs! 
No this is not a joke, and yes you are eligible 
to win them. Tradition has it that college 
students notoriously arrive en masse in Flor
ida during the early spring months to crowd 
the beaches and soak up all available sun. 
AB Dance is making certain that CMU will 
be represented by a least two members of the 
student body by giving away two plane 
tickets at this weeks dance on Friday, Janu
ary 30, from 9:30 PM to 1:00 AM.
Hot Pursuit (how appropo) will pro
vide the sounds of the beach classics, includ
ing the Beach Boys, of course. Some form of 
beach attire is required to be admitted and 
for the real sandman, CMUs first muscle
man contest will be held (contestants can 
register during the party). You can register 
at the party for the tickets; they will be given 
away that night.
To complete the Malibu weekend, SDC 
will present the movie Malibu Beach in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8, and 10 PM and 
midnight.
This ad has appeared in Time, Newsweek, 
Fortune, Forbes and Inc.:
For a tax-deductible fee and less than $8 an hour, you can take on a bright college business major from another country for 2 to 18 months.
Got a special project nobody has time for that needs brains and initiative 
as well as a pair of hands? Or want to give someone from another country 
on-the-job assessment before your company decides to hire himor her 
back home? Take on an AIESEC college graduate.
For over 30 years AIESEC* has provided a chance for international 
business training for over 100,000 highly motivated, articulate and intelligent 
college students, including over 8,000 Americans.
They benefit You benefitwhether you are internationally minded 
or not
Thousands of smart companies, both domestic and international both 
large and small, tap AIESEC brains. Why dont you? Its not often you can 
get one at such a bargain May we talk?
Write AIESEC, 622 Third Avenue, N. Y, N. Y. 10017. Or phone collect 
(212) 687-1905. Someone from one of our 60 offices around the 
United States will contact you.
'AIESEC (Eye'sec) stands for Association Internationale des Etudiants en Sciences Economiques et Commerciales 
In plain English that means International Association of Business and Economic Students.
Join AIESECs most outstanding local committee 
Wednesdays at 4:30 in Skibo, Rm. 11.
------ -------If.* V il*---^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
Entropy: always out of just what you need?
by Kathy McGinley and Lynne Koupal
Tuesdays been a rough day'. After several 
hours of brutalizing classes, you make your 
way over to the Cashiers Office on the trea
cherous, snow-covered sidewalks. You get in 
line and patiently wait your turn to pick up 
your credit, only to discover diat it has not 
been processed yet. Another few' days with
out money; oh well. Then you head over to
The cherry pies are gone. 
Entropy has failed you.
Skibo for lunch. Nauseated by the menu, 
you decide to opt for a Hostess cherry pie. 
Thank God for Entropy, you say to yourself.
As you walk in the door, you notice 
another line. You fight your way through 
the Entropy Library (magazine section) to 
the Hostess rack, but the cherry pies are all 
gone. Nothing else will satisfy your craving, 
and Entropy has failed you. While youre at 
the store, you remember that cigarettes come 
in today, so you stay in line to get a pack. 
You get to the counter, and ask for True 
Blue 100s, but once again, Entropy is out of 
what you want. They have iust about even 
other kind of cigarette you can think of, but
no True Blues. Hie salesclerk remarks: 
The order is late because of the weather. 
Sorry. Lovely, you reply. Well, howr 
about four quarters for my dollar? Her 
brusque response is: We dont give
change. Then you decide you really need 
the coins, so you buy a candy bar and the 
clerk gives you fifteen nickels back from 
your dollar. Its so much fun to carry nickels 
around, too. They work especially well in 
pinball machines.
Things just never seem to go right...
Everytime you come in to browse, you 
notice another strange and interesting item 
that Entropy carries  contact lens cleaner, 
for example. So, the next time you need 
brillo pads, you say to yourself: Well, if 
Entropy carries contact lens cleaner, they 
must have brillo pads. Wrong again, you 
find  after you get to the store. While 
youre standing there in disgust, you notice 
empty shelf space and suggest to the clerk 
that she fill up some of that bare space with 
brillo pads. The employee gives the lame 
excuse that she has nothing to do with buy
ing, and frustrated, you walk out of the 
store.
Tuesdays are usually pretty rough days 
for Entropy employees, too. Imagine yourCMU applications increase
by Monica J. Cellio
As some schools are being faced w ith the 
problem of declining enrollment, CMU is 
experiencing an upswing in the number of 
applications for admission this year. All 
colleges within the university are receiving 
more applications than last year, with 
H&SS claiming the greatest increase.
As of January first, the number of 
applications in H&SS has climbed by 53% 
over last year. AMS is close behind with a
52% rise; MCS, CIT, and CFA claimed 46%, 
26%, and 9% increases respectively. Overall, 
the university has received 29% more 
applications this year.
According to Dr. Elliot, Dean of 
Admissions, the demand is strong across 
all five fronts despite the $700 tuition 
increase-or maybe because of the increase; I 
dont know. It is important to note that 
while H&SS has the greatest improvement, 
it is not receiving the largest number of 
applicants.
R.A. Interest Sessions
Sunday, Feb. 1, 2:00 RM 
Wednesday, Feb. 4, 9:00 PM 
Sunday, Feb. 8, 2:00 PM
All sessions will be held in Skibo, Room 45. 
All Applicants must attend one of these sessions.
self as a clerk on the day all the orders arrive. 
You walk in the store and notice your 
frazzled coworker dealing alone with a line 
that goes to the back of the store. You offer to 
relive her, but she informs you that the milk 
and orange juice are on the loading dock.
You take the dolly down on the elevator 
and when you arrive at the dock, you are 
greeted by both the milkman and the candy 
man. You grumble to yourself: Why did I 
ever think it would be fun to work at 
Entropy? You struggle with the milk car
tons and numerous boxes of cigarettes and' 
candy, but somehow manage to get them 
back to die store. You unload the last box 
from the dolly and a customer announces 
that he needs a -Snickers bar right now. 
You buy a candy bar and 
the clerk gives you fifteen 
nickels back from your 
dollar..
Yet, for all its faults, we like working at 
Entropy . There is a feeling of comraderie 
among the employees and there are few, if 
any other places on campus w here workers 
come in to visit and end up helping out. 
Working at Entropy is a relatively easy job, 
and its great to see so much of the CMU 
community each day.
There are fun games wre play while at 
work, too, such as seeing how' long the regis
ter tape gets before someone asks for a 
receipt, and try ing to remember what brands 
of cigarettes customers smoke.
Although we really enjoy our work, we 
are under some constraints. We are all CMU 
students, and its not always possible for us 
to make it to work. Unfortunately, the store 
must run either short-staff'd or perhaps 
even close. Although we do order most of
our stock, company representatives stock 
some merchandise. And sometimes they 
dont stock enough. Buyers order other 
items as they are needed. Others come in at 
specified times each week.
In order to make it easier for you, tire 
customers, and we, the employees, here is a 
list of approximate times that orders arrive.
Milk and Orange Juice - Monday, Tues, 
Thursday, Friday afternoons
Ciindy and Cigarettes  Tuesday 
afternoon
Newspapers  by noontime daily 
Health and Beauty  every other 
Thursday 
Our hours are:
Mon-Thurs  10 AM - 9 PM 
Fri-Sat  10 PM - 8 PM 
Sundays  10:30 AM - 8 PM
RS
ADTICT
ENGINEERING DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M^
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH.)
G
ATTENTION SENIORS
The Senior Banquet Will Be Held This 
Saturday, January 31
If you are a Senior and did NOT receive an 
invitation bring your ID to the Alumni Office, 
5th Floor, Warner Hall by Wednesday, January 28 
before 5 p.m. to pick up your ticket.
CALL 570-2*21TRAVEL
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

ment.
unday with Maxine
by Richard Gorelick
The house lights go up and the audience 
xplodes in a frenzy of applause. When 
iaxine gets backstage, there is already a 
irong of well-wishers and admirers 
ammed into her tiny, but tasteful dressing 
om. Max is dazzled by the ocean of flowers 
nd flashcubes. Suddenly, the room falls 
lent and the crowd parts like the red sea, 
nly not as wet. Standing at the door, fingerg the brim of his top hat, is Michael Skloff, 
ie arranger and composer. He adjusts his 
pe and saunters over to Max. Lifting her 
hin with his forefinger, he looks into her 
yes and says, From now on baby, youre 
onna be singin my songs. A Star is Bom.
Well, not exactly. But Michael Skloff, 
vho has composed scores for both maintage and studio production at CMU, was in 
audience that night last March when 
MU drama students Maxine Lapiduss, 
obyn Slade and Alan Harp sang, danced 
nd joked a Coffeehouse audience into a 
lild uproar. And he did approach Max 
n after that show with the idea of collabration. It was an idea they only joked about 
the rest of the semester, but before leaving 
hool for the summer, they made a solemn 
th to start seriously working together in 
s fall.
ie
01
And they kept that oath. Five months of 
arranging, creating and rehearsing will cul
minate this Sunday night at 9 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room, when A.B. Coffeehouse 
presents A Class Act, a one-woman show 
with outrageous comedy, a seven piece 
orchestra conducted by Michael Skloff and 
songs ranging from politics to toxic shock 
to generics.
Last Marchs Coffeehouse was not the 
first time that Michael had seen Max per
form. The year before, when she was still in 
high school, she performed her stand-up 
comedy routine for a Coffeehouse in the 
Wherrett Room. In fact, Max has been a 
professional since she was only fourteen 
years old. (Maxine is the daughter of Esther 
Lapiduss, a well-known comedian in the 
Pittsburgh area.)
When she was sixteen, Max began per
forming in local nightclubs and bars, 
including the Portfolio in Oakland, the 
Throckmore Club and the Cyrk Room 
downtown (where she performed with her 
mother). Men would come up to me after 
the show and offer to buy me drinks. The 
bartender would just look at me and say no 
way. So Id have a gingerale.
It was a few years ago when Max decided 
to acquire some formal training in acdng to
coring for Dollars
by Richard Gorelick
The score can make or break the show. If 
you turn off the sound in a scary movie, its 
not scary. This is how Michelle Dibucci 
describes the importance of the score to the 
show.
And she should know. Michelle is a 
unior composition major at CMU where 
he has composed scores for Rosencrantz 
nd Guildenstern are dead on the mainstage 
and Two Gentlemen of Verona in the 
Studio Theatre. She has also composed for 
the Point Park Players and the Pittsburgh
She knows the score
playhouse. Currently, Dracula: Sabbat, the 
third show that she has scored for Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre is playing in Oakland. 
The other two plays, The Possessed and 
Golem, that she scored for Pittsburgh Lab 
were written by Leo Katz, as is Dracula: 
Sabbat.
In The Possessed, her score, which had a 
distinctly Russian flavor, was taped by a 
small orchestra for the production while the 
score for Golem, which reflected the play's 
Jewish themes, was performed live by a 
small ensemble: percussion, flute, and 
recorder. Dracula: Sabbat (reviewed next 
week) involves a complex scheme of time 
changes which is intended to give the 
audience the feeling of hallucination. At 
different limes in the play. Michelles music
is either serenely Victorian or, when 
Draculas presence is suggested, pure rock 
n roll.
Michelles connection with Pittsburgh 
Lab goes back several years, to when she was 
sdll in high school and acung in a showr at 
The Lab. When the Lab found out that 
Michelle was entering an education in 
composition, they offered her the 
opportunity to score a Lab show.
This year, Pittsburgh Lab is in a unique 
position of having the author of each of its 
shows, Leon Katz, present during the 
creative process. This situation provides the 
director, designers, actors, and composers 
with the advantage, or burden, of having 
direct input from the author. Usually, 
however, Michelle works in colaboration 
with the shows director when composing a 
score.
Currently, she is working with Amie 
Zaslove, a Seattle director who has been 
brought to CMU to direct a mainstage 
production of Twelth Night, opening 
February 12. CMUs Twelth Night will be 
brought into the 1920s and Michelles score 
will reflect the music of that era; Dixieland 
and jazz.
Michelle has been rehearsing the Dracula 
orchestra for over three weeks, and she 
confided that this commitment of her time 
has kept her from even begining die score 
for Twelth Night. Fortunately, she is 
accustomed to composing with only limited 
time. Like the typical undergrad, she does 
her best work under pressure.
Although Pittsburghs theatre and fine 
arts are presently in a healthy state, Michelle 
sdll feels that she will eventually have to 
leave her home town to fulfil her career 
goals. She prefers that her future work be 
the theatre, which has the immediacy that 
films lack, but she is not ruling out movies 
entirely. Someday, she plans to score a 
contemporary' ballet.
Michelle is a composer first and not 
necessarily a songwriter in the Barry 
Manilow vein. When adled upon, however, 
she can provide the music to someone elses 
ly rics, as she is doing with Twelth Night. 
When the lyricist is someone like 
Shakespeare, the music doesnt enhance 
the words, Michelle laughs, the* words 
enliance the music."
Max and Michael contemplate this Sundays Coffeehouse 
help develop her performing career. She 
played two nights back to back at the Portfo
lio. The first night, she had the audience 
rolling in the aisles, but the second night, in 
die same room, with the same material, she 
bombed. Imagine 300 people staring at you 
like the Nuremburg jury. You feel trapped 
in your own act. You think to yourself, this 
is the stuff that was so funny in your living 
room last night. You wonder if youre 
speaking English.
This Sunday night will feature Maxines 
comedy to a large extent, comedy that she 
prefers not to refer to as stand-up. Standup is what Henny Youngman does, stand
ing in front of 'an audience, rattling off 
jokes. Maxs comedy is more reminiscent of 
Lily Tomlins. Throughout the evening, 
different characters come to life on the stage. 
Her humor is more situauonal and improvisational that a typical stand-up comics.
For ninety minutes on Sunday night, 
Maxine will perform alone on stage in front 
of an audience, singing songs that were 
arranged specifically for her, something that 
is ^different from anything else she has ever 
done. Although last Marchs coffeehouse 
had many memoravle musical numbers, she 
has never worked in a one-on-one relauonship with a composer before.
Item: CMU Jazz Ensemble
photo by Rolx'it Zusman
Michael Skloff is also slightly out of his 
arena. He has composed the scores for such 
CMU productions as Lady From Maxims, 
Bertrano and Act Without Words. He will 
also compose the score for Salome, a version 
of Oscar Wildes play, which will appear in 
the outdoor ampitheatre this spring. And 
although he has done extensive arranging 
before, including over fifty Gershwin songs 
for La Salle Musical Theater in Philadel
phia, this is his first experience in an 
arranger-performer relationship.
What began as an idea to work together 
has grown into a fullblown extravaganza. 
But Max and Michael are anticipating this 
Coffeehouse, not as a finale, but as a com
mencement of their partnership. If this cof
feehouse hits, they are considering taking 
the act to New York City at some future date. 
Their collaborauon has even produced an 
original song. Michael was working with a 
lyricless melody which he showed to Max
ine, who was working with some tuneless 
lyrics. The result, In my Fathers Eyes will 
be performed this Sunday night.
A Class Act with Maxine Lapiduss will 
be presented by A.B. Coffeehouse this Sun
day night at 9 p.m. in the Wherrett room, 
Skibo. Arrive early to insure good seating. 
Maybe a Star will be Bom.
Hot things for cold nights
by Adam Lauzar
I happened to catch the CMU Jazz 
Ensemble last week at the Skibo Ballroom. 
Hidden away here at our school, but not for 
long I hope, is a hot, kicking jazz band. 
Playing to an apreciauve audience, the band 
put on a lively hour and a half of music. 
Under the steadying influence of Mr. Randy 
Purcell, band leader and trombonist, the 
band has become an enjoyable and very 
sophisticated entertainment act. The ensem
ble consists of about fourteen musicians. 
Each musician contributes his own style of 
playing within the tight framework of the 
compositions played. What makes the 
sound especially captivating is the creative 
interplay between the individual instrumen
talists within the boundaries of the songs 
performed. The selecuon of music pays 
homage to the past and present greats of jazz.
Mr. Purcell, who doesnt limit himself to 
just teaching here at CMU, has implanted 
an appreciauon of the disciplined music 
chart into each of the band members. Fhe 
result of this discipline isa finely tuned band 
that swings, cooks, and blows up a storm of 
exciting and invigorating jazz. The band 
has ripened; they play with more maturity 
and assurance. Most importantly, they play 
together as one whole, instead of soloists just 
sharing the stage.
The Jazz Ensemble has been together now 
for a number of years, the past two under the
direction of Mr. Purcell. Mr. Purcell is an 
accomplished jazz musician who has played 
with the likes of Maynard Ferguson. He also 
hosts clinics around the country during the 
course of the year. There is diversity in the 
band also: Most of the members study music 
full ume, but there are six studying engi
neering. The ensemble is funded partly by 
the school but mostly by dona dons and fees 
collected by the band from performances. 
Needless to say, they could use mote micro
phones, amplifiers, bandstands.... However, 
they do an enthusiastic show with what they 
have. And what they have is a lot of talent 
and wonderfully energetic diiecdon from 
Mr. Purcell. During the course of the even
ing Mr. Purcell seemingly couldnt bear to 
just stand up front snapping his fingers, 
keeping ume. He seemed most at ease when 
playing his trombone alongside his 
students.
The Jazz Ensembles selecuon of songs 
varied; oldies, present hits, fast and slow 
tempoes. The ensemble is performing at 
least two more times this semester. One 
show will be in mid February, and the other 
one in either March or April. They dont 
perform many times, so you have to make 
sure to catch them when theyre around. As 
to that end, we here at the Tartan will keep 
you informed. So, if youre sitting around 
on a cold winters night in February, I can 
think of at least twro things to do. The other 
thing is jazz.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
CTC presents love in the round and underwear fashion
by Maria Rarbuto
The City Theatre Company is currently 
presenting La Ronde, an elegant comedy of 
love, as the premiere offering of its 1981 
season at the Studio Theatre on the Pitt 
campus. Written by Arthur Schnitzler, a 
contemporary of Sigmund Freud, the play 
initially deals with sex in its most basic form 
and also with the intense emotions involved; 
but it turns out to be litde more than a 
parade of people in weird underwear w'ho 
like to take their clothes off.
As the title suggests La Ronde (In the 
Round) moves in circles which gets to be a 
bit monotonous after the pattern becomes 
established, but it serves to emphasize the 
irony in these little love relationships. Scene 
One opens with a hooker (Debra Gordon) 
w'ho is obviously try ing to seduce a soldier. 
He reluctantly refuses at first until she gets 
her claws into him and then they wrestle to 
the ground. Immediately aftenvard, the 
soldier (Bruce Kirkpatrick) suffers from a 
massive guilt complex (or something 
equally Freudian) and becomes very abusive 
and belligerent towards the woman.
The soldier is seen actively pursuing a 
young maid, Marie (Elaine Carlson), at a 
festive dance. She is very defensive but soon 
yields to his persistence and they both wres
tle to the ground. Again, the soldier goes 
into his bitchy act and Marie feels very hurt, 
frustrated and guilty. It becomes obvious 
that the play is centered around the various 
after sex reactions and behaviors.
Although appearing to be so innocent in 
the previous scene, Marie (sans inhibitions) 
procedes to tempt a young gentleman, 
Alfred, who is heavily engrossed in a 
naughty novel. A chorus representing con
ventionality (i.e. many people wearing 
strange masks and making obscene noises) 
appears in the background to taunt him and 
cause him to break out into a cold sweat.
How'ever, his primal instincts take over (Sig
mund would applaud) and he and Marie 
ferverently wrestle to the ground. Alfred 
(Christopher Dummick) is the first to dis
play his strange underwear which consists 
of these white bloomer type shorts and long 
johns top.
It seems that Alfred already has his hands 
full with a secret affair with a married 
woman, Emma. They are seen patiently try
ing to avoid the inevitable in Alfreds early 
1900s apartment when the next scene 
opens. Alfred breaks the ice and manically 
pursues Emma with the tenacity of Tim 
Curry after Barad and Janet in The Rocky 
Horror Show. Another blow to the male ego 
is delivered when Emma turns out to be a 
very demanding woman, but she effectively 
deals with Alfreds temporary problem and 
he whimsically declares At last, a real 
woman.
Next, we get to meet Emmas middle 
aged, pope-like husband Carl who wears 
long dressing gowns and addresses his wife 
as my child. But hes not heading for the 
Vatican yet because he turns out to have a 
fetish for whipped cream loving pre-teenage 
girls. His current girl probably has the nicest 
underwear (a beige chamoise) but she 
dumps old Carl and opts for a flaky, short 
writer who loves her for her stupidity. 
The writer seduces her with a trail of pep
permint candy and then records the aesthet
ics of the experience in his little journal. His 
underwear was really queer anyway.
Then the litde guy turns up with a rather 
statuesque (actually, just plain large) aristocaratic actress who makes him look like a 
gnat. That doesnt bother him though and 
they both rip their clothes off and wrestle to 
the floor. This scene has a bit more in depth 
than previous ones because it exposed the 
vulnerability of the male ego after falling 
prey to a totally dominating woman. The
actress (Diana Romualdi) tells him that hes 
only a w him and then proceeds to call him a 
frog. She sees this tactic obviously gets on his 
nerves so she placates him long enough to 
go to bed with him. The Freudian implica
tions are overbearing.
The real twist is saved for the end when 
the nymphoid actress stalks a stoic count 
(David Kuhns) from Vienna w'ho has a ten
dency to deliver long soliloquies about 
nothing in particular. At least hes taller 
than the writer. The actress boldly pro
claims her intentions towards the count and 
then reveals her sadistic streak by chasing 
him around the room with his sword while 
he declares how improper it is to have a 
woman of her acclaim during the day. She 
replies, Close your eyes if its too light for
you. He does. Hes next seen tied and 
bound to the bed and wearing bizarre polka 
dotted underwear. As a final kick, she ties a 
rope around his neck, dog-collar style, and 
proceeds to walk him around the room; he 
exits exhausted.
The final scene is straight from Dionysus 
orgies on the hill with the entire cast 
sprawled out in lewd positions wearing sar-ti 
donic smirks on their faces. The count ends 
up with the hooker, thus completing the 
circle. The plays entire objective seemed to 
be contained in a conversation between 
these two in which the count reveals a true 
love affair from the past. La Ronde should 
be appreciated, despite its tacky underwear 
displays, because of its comic value and eter
nally contemporary subject matter.
opens at Gallery
by R. Gorelick
*@*@ might look like something 
Dagwood Bumstead would shout in a fit of 
rage, but it is actually the tide of the Forbes 
Street Gallery show which opens tonight at 
7 PM. Senior Art majors Janet Martin, 
Deborah Hosking and Melaney Laine Davis 
will display recent works under a title that is, 
if nothing else, unpretentious. The exhibit 
should demonstrate the enormous 
boundaries of artistic expression possible in 
CMUs art program.
Janet Martin is an illustartion major 
whose displayed art will not only include 
her recent work in paintings, drawings and 
illustrations, but will also feature paper 
pieces and an unusual item, a box kite. She 
also plans a slide presentation of her work.
Deborah Hosking will show her recent 
paintings and drawings, as well as some 
work in Xerography, a process that 
manipulates the three passes required in 
color copying. This manipulation might
include moving things between passes and 
pushing diffemet color buttons. This partly 
mechanical process seems like an infinately 
more approachable art form than the everencroaching computer art.
Davis work will include her efforts in 
fibers, fabric and paper as well as other 
three-dimensional works.
Forbes Street Gallerys back room, which 
in the past has featured work ranging from 
the painfully mundane to the entirely 
bizarre will feature this week a work of \ 
Hoskings that leans more towards the j 
bizarre. She describes the composition that 
will appear in the backroom as a vignette.
Forbes Street Gallery will open at 7 PM 
tonight with a room full of the work of three 
CMU Art majors. It will close at 10 PM with 
the same work, but it will have been shared, 
appreciated and criticized by the loyal 
artistic community at Camegie-Mellon, and 
hopefully some new converts.
Announcing the campus discount:
10% off...(1 all TI consumer products at the Texas Instruments retail store!
Texas Instruments calculators, watches 
learning aidseven the TI-99/4 Home 
Computerjust show us your valid univer
sity ID and get a 10% discount on just 
about everything in the store*! This offer 
is good through June 10,1981.
TI Programmable 59 
calculator
Discount available to students and faculty.
Special sale Items are excluded from this offer
Visit the Texas Instruments 
retail storewhere all 
of TVs consumer products 
and accessories are available.
BRAZI LNIHOTCRNHI
Retail Store
11
Century III Mall  655-3700
i instruments retarf starts arc operated by Taxas instruments Supply Company a subsidiary at Texas Instruments Incorporated
MUSICIANS 
PERFORMERS
Registration 12:30-3:30 Auditions begin at 1:00
Morgantown, WV Wed., Feb. 11 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Creative Arts Center - Concert Theatre
Pittsburgh, PA Thurs., Feb. 12 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Skibo Student Union - Rms. 11 & 12
Akron, OH Fri., Feb. 13
UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
E. J. Thomas Performing Arts Hall
Oberlin, OH Tues., Feb. 17 
OBERLIN COLLEGE 
Wilder Hall - Main Lounge
Also at Cedar Point Jan. 31 & Feb. 14
TECHNICIANS
Please send resumes by Feb. 1
For other audition 
sites and further information contact:
LIVE SHOWS
Cedar Point, Sandusky, OH 44870 (419) 626-0830
^SaBSySiien^iSCEDAR POINT
J

---------------------------------------------------

LILY TOMLIN CHARLES GRODIN NED BEATTY A LIIA Production 
"THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING WOMAN" 
Written by JANE WAGNER -Mu* by SUZANNE CIANI  Produced by HANK MOONJEAN 
Executive Producer JANEWAGNER Directed by PEL SCHUMACHER A UNIVERSAL PICTURE 
Read the JOVE Book  Copyright  (980 by Universal City Studios, kK [Pn|p*RBffiL fiuma *1?^
buncha white chicks sitting around screaming
by Maria Barbuto
I Dusa, Fish, Stas and Vi, despite its queer 
le, is really an outstanding play thats curBnrlv being performed by Theatre Express 
m the Pittsburgh Playhouse until February
 The story centers on the trials and tribula|)ns of four girls who live in a London flat 
id is filled with some very blatant 
nimal overtones.
ie play opens with a view of the semi^ inic Vi (CMUs own Pam Norris) who 
irtrays an obnoxious leftover flowerchild. 
ie spends the first half of the play sitting 
found in pretzel positions and sneering at 
r other three roommates. But she some
how charms the audience into actually likijig her irrational, parasitic character, which 
I ys something for her acting ability.
| Then Dusa (what an undesirable name) 
ters the scene in a massively depressed 
mdition trying to find her friend Fish 
net Reed) who was supposed to meet her 
fir lunch. But Fish was getting married at 
He time, and so starts the tale of her bizarre 
Hve relationships which sums up the plays 
Book what men will do to you philojiphy. Fish is involved with a guy Alan 
hom she spited by marrying someone else, 
it he in tum married another woman so
they both end up even; married and 
frustrated.
But back to Dusa (Lisa Bansavage). Shes 
been dumped by her husband who must not 
be a very nice guy because he then kidnaps 
their children and takes them off to some 
foreign country. Dusa goes into a state of 
instant hysteria which causes her to con
sume Valium in large quantities, constantly 
spout the agonies and heartaches of raising 
kids and to be a general drag on the 
audience. Her domestic character is in direct 
opposition with the I am woman type 
Fish but both manage to clearly reveal the 
evils of the male species.
Adding to this conglomeration of love 
smitten females is the fourth roomie Stas 
(Claudia Zahn) who is an aspiring Marine 
biologist but temporarily a hooker. Her part 
is played with just enough class and cyni
cism to really make her the highlight of the 
play (and shes the only one who didnt go to 
CMU). Again the contemptuous tone can be 
felt as Stas blurts out the second law of ther
modynamics before leaving for a nights 
work.
The play rambles on smoothly with sev
eral humorous roommate tiffs (we can all
relate) and some genuinely thought provok
ing and somber moments. The various pro
gressions and developments between Fish 
and Alan (he starts following her around),
Dusa and hubby (she gets detectives, police,
Mod Squad or something like that on his 
tail), Stas and her ambidon (she saves all her 
wages in a shoe box and parades around 
in stolen fur coats) and between Vi and her 
eccentricity (her queer dietary habits land 
her in the hospital) constitute the major 
body of the play which is almost soapoperaish in effect.
SnS Production call
Dusa, Fish, Stas and Vi by Pam Gems, 
whose play Piaf is about to open on Broad
way, will run at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Theatre Center on Craft Ave. through Feb
ruary 8. It is a production of the Theatre 
Express, whose home on Baum Blvd. was 
plagued with flooding. Shows are Thursday 
through Sunday at 8:30 p.m. For ticket 
information, call 621-5454. Even for the 
most non-Helen Reddy types, this play was 
most enjoyable for the humor, talent and 
insight present in it.
The Scotch and Soda Board will hold a 
Production Staff meeting Saturday 
Afternoon, January 31 at 1 PM in room 11. 
There will be an orchestra call at the same 
time in room 12.
Scotch and Soda is beginning 
preparations for its annual Spring Musical, 
Protege. There are openings for technical 
director, crew chiefs and designers, as well as 
an entire roster of crew positions: including 
costumers, lighters, propmen, sound
technicians and make-up assistants Also 
available are such box-office positions as 
house managers, ticket sellers and publicity 
assistants.
Anyone interested in performing as an 
instrumentalist or acting as a rehearsal 
pianist for the production should attend the 
orchestra call in room 12. Designers are 
asked to bring a portfolio of recent work to 
the Production meeting.
NOW PLAYING AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU
January 27, 1981The TartanPage 13

---------------------------------------------------

A B Concerts presents
Sunday, February 8, 8:00 p.m. Carnegie Mellon University Skibo ballroom.
Tickets available at 
Skibo information desk 
Pitt
Heads Together
Reserved 
seating 
$4 w/CMU ID 
$6 public
Funded by student activits fee

---------------------------------------------------

artans roll over JCU and Allegheny to take PAC lead
by Wes Seeley
f After a disappointing December, the Carftiegie Mellon basketball team has put 
together four straight conference victories in 
anuary and now sits alone atop the Presients Athletic Conference standings at 4-0.
e Tartans played their two finest games 
if the season last week as they stopped John 
rroll at Skibo Gym last Wednesday and 
en dumped Allegheny on the Gators 
ome court on Saturday.
The Plaid blew open what had been a _ery tight contest against John Carroll midJlvvay through the second half and never 
looked back as they took an 80-66 decision, 
trhe two team fought
most of the first half until the Tartans got 
hot and outscored the Streaks 15-8 in a six 
minute stretch and took a 33-26 lead late in 
the half. The Tartans could not hold on, 
however, and John Carroll, thanks to the 
hot shooting of sophomore guard John 
Colombo fought back to within two at 38-36 
at the intermission.
The score remained tight early in the 
second half and was even at 44-44 with 13:12 
remaining when the Tartans got a break. 
After CMUs Dan Donahoe fouled Tim 
Dieghan by midcourt, the John Carroll 
point guard shot off his mouth to all that 
would listen. One of those listening was
a
photo by Chuck Chidekel
Joe Belechak works against close coverage by John Carrolls John Colombo
technical foul. After that call, the Tartans 
scored 15 of the next 19 points to take a 62-48 
lead at the 7:50 mark. They never looked 
back.
The Tartans showed off a balanced scor
ing attack led by Dan Donahoes 15 points. 
Buddy Hobart and Carl Mulac each added 
14 points. Dave Hofmeister, the recipient of 
the PAC Player of the Week award for the 
seasons first week, scored 18 points and 
pulled down nine rebounds. Joe Belechak 
scored 12 points. Colombo scored 26 points 
on the evening to lead the Blue Streaks but 
no other John Carroll ballplayer could 
manage more than six.
After the John Carroll game, the Tartans 
got word that Allegheny had lost, so 
Plaid would have first place to themselves 
when they travelled to Allegheny on 
Saturday.
The Gators ran off to an early edge in 
game while the Tartans searched for their 
range from outside, but, when they found it, 
CMU took control. Dan Donahoe, Pete Ben
nett and Joe Belechak hit outside shots that 
would have made Joe Hassett proud and the 
Tartans took the lead. Once again, CMU 
had trouble keeping their lead and had their 
seven-point lead cut to three, 25-22, at 
intermission.
The Tartans came out running in the 
second half and never gave the Gators a 
chance to take the lead. Senior 
Buddy Hobart hit eight straight 
in the second half and with the help of some 
more deadly outside shooting CMU took a 
13-point with nine minutes left. Allegheny 
was forced to play from behind throughout 
the second half and had to foul the 
players to get back in the game. The Tartans 
never gave Allegheny a chance to get back, 
though. CMU hit on 21 of 29 free throws on 
night. Allegheny only took four shots 
from the foul line all night and missed them
Freshman Bruce Nesdore of Allegheny 
took game scoring honors with 18 points. 
Five Tartans scored in double figures in 
team effort for CMU. Buddy 
Hobart and Joe Belechak each scored 16 
points, Dave Hofmeister and Dan Donahoe 
put in 14 points a piece while Carl Mulac 
had 11 points. Hofmeister pulled in 11 
rebounds.
The first place Tartans next face 
Washington 8c Jefferson in Washington on 
Wednesday. Their next home game will be 
on Saturday against Hiram at 2:00 p.m. 
That afternoon,if CMU holds Hiram under 
75 points, Wendys will give each person in 
attendance a coupon redeemable for a free 
order of french fries. Plan to be on hand for 
the Great French Fry Giveaway.
photo by Chuck Chidekel 
Dave Hofmeister goes up for a shot over two John 
Carroll defenders last Wednesday night. Hofmeis
ter scored 13 points on the night.
PAC STANDINGS
CMU401.000
Case Reserve31.750
Allegheny22.500
Wash-Jeff22.500
Bethany22.500
John Carroll22.500
Hiram13.250
Thiel04.000
SATURDAYS RESULTS
Camegie-Mellon 75 Allegheny 64
Case Reserve 57 Bethany 54
John Carroll 86 Thiel 58
Hiram 73 Washington & Jefferson 69
John CarrollFGFGAFTFTAPTS
Dave Brown3-90-16
Chris Henn3-100-06
Mark Henn3-80-16
Tim Dieghan3-90-06
John Colombo13-260-226
Dave Nelson2-52-26
Arnon Amir1-40-02
Jeff Metzgar1-30-02
Joe Gobrosek0-20-00
Jack Walsh3-60-06
CMUFGFGAFTFTAPTS
Buddy Hobart7-142-316
Carl Mulac4-63-611
Dave Hofmeister3-78-914
Dan Donahoe5-94-514
Pete Bennett2-40-04
Joe Belechak6-94-516
John Lewis0-00-00
Dave Miklasevich0-00-10
TOTALS27-4921-2975
TOTALS 30-52 20-28 80 TOTALS 32-75 0-4 64
2-6
FTFTA
2-2
4-6 
3-4
5-7
2-3
3-4 
1-2
ALLEGHENY
Darrell Jones 
Phil Murphy 
Dave Contardi 
Bob Williams 
Bruce Nesdore 
Darryl Dawson 
Bill Miller 
Brent Burrows 
Greg Finnerty
FGFGA
4-8
7-17
3-7
0-3
9-17
7-15
2-5
0-3
0-0
FTFTA
0-0
0-3
0-0
0-0
0-1
0-0
0-0
0-0
0-0
32-82
FGFGA
6-8
5-6
5-8
2-5
5-15
6-9 
1-1
TOTALS
CMU
Buddy Hobart 
Carl Mulac 
Dave Hofmeister 
Pete Benneu 
Jot* Belechak 
Dan Donahoe 
John Ljewis

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
Tartans split pair in 
Pennwood West openers
Swimmers dunked by JCU
by Bob Share
The CMU womens basketball team split 
a pair of games last week, whipping St. 
Francis, 69-58, in their first Pennwood West 
Conference game at Skibo Gym on Wednes
day before falling to Seton Hill, 57-53, on 
Saturday in Greensburg.
Down 27-22 to St. Francis, the Tartans 
put together a string of sixteen consecutive 
points during a five minute stretch running 
from the final moments of the first half to 
the first part of the second to pull out in 
front by 38-27. From there they eased in for 
the win. Junior KassieSegmillerand sopho
more Debbie Durr each tallied six points 
during the streak.
It was a big win for us in our first confer
ence game. Its important to get off on the 
right track, commented Coach Gene Klein. 
We never lost our composure which was 
the most important factor. We got baskets
Accompanist, record player and cassette will be available 
An equal opportunity employer M/F/H
PRINTED DRINKING 
GLASSES
Wording of your choice
minimum order 5 dozen @ $2.00 
a glass. Souvenir to make your 
occasion special
EVE: 921-8170; DAY: 921-3571
Fast Instant Cash
for your class rings and Jewelry 
bring this ad in and receive 
an extra $5!!!
Ring Exchange 115 Murray Ave. 
Oakland 687-4320
when we needed them and played very' well 
on defense.
The Tartans got off the track on Saturday 
as the superior size of Seton Hill plus an 11 
for 25 foul shooting day for CMU added up 
to a 57-53 Seton Hill win. Down by eight at 
halftime, the Tartans fought back to tie the 
score at 39-39 and again at 43-43 
never take the lead against their 
nents. CMU had one more opportunity to 
win as, after being down 55-48 with just 40 
seconds left, they fought back to within two 
at 55-53 before finally running out of time.
Kassie Segmiller led all scorers with 
points. Debbie Durr, who played so well 
against St. Francis, got into early foul trou
ble and was not a factor in the game.
The Tartans game against Chatham that 
was scheduled for tomorrow night has been 
cancelled because Chatham has dropped 
their basketball program. They will next be 
in action Friday night in Bethany.
Have we got a job for you!
If youve got talent, we want to see it. And then 
well let you show it to the world at The Old 
Country, Busch Gardens, in Williamsburg, Va.
During our 1981 Audition Tour well be looking for 
more singers, dancers, musicians, costume charac
ters, mimes, jugglers, puppeteers, technicians and 
supervisors than ever before.
Show off your talent to thousands of visitors 
daily in one of the many stage productions or 
street shows in our unique European theme 
setting. And with the addition of our newest coun
try, Italy, our world has gotten a lot bigger. And so 
has yours.
Youll work with other outstanding talents and 
earn a good salary while youre at it.
So get your act together and show it to us. Then 
get ready to show it to the world.
Audition date:
Pittsburgh, PA 
Fri., Feb. 6,1-5 p.m.
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
The Theatre Downstairs 
222 Craft Ave.DUSCH GARDCMS.
WU.llAMSOURfi.VA.
Old
? free pregnancy tests 
* confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit modlcal facility
by Chuck Chidekel
Kassie Segmiller turns to the hoop against a St. Francis defender. Segmiller scored 23 points against St. 
Francis last Wednesday and 24 against Seton Hill on Saturday.
battles Pitt to 5-5 deadlock
the lead 4 to 3 at the end of one.
The Panthers came from their locker 
room psyched. Only minutes into the 
period the Tartans found themselves two 
men down, with Matt Maddalene and Frank 
Carter in the box. Luckily, the Panthers 
only managed to score one more goal, as 
they were repelled by the excellent penalty 
killing of Mike Panno, Mark Licata, Jeff 
Guttman and Bill Heyse. But the Tartans 
were now down by two goals.
Then, four year veteran Jeff Reh proved 
his desire to beat Pitt before the end of his 
career at CMU, as he dealt his second goal of 
the night into the Panthers netting. And ' 
before the second period ended, rookie 
Samuelson fired a hard low slapshot past 
the short side of Pitts goal tender, to tie the 
score at 5 to 5.
CMUs defense came alive for the third 
period, as did Pitts, rendering a scoreless 
period, a 5-5 tie and possibley another venge
ful cross-town rival for the Ice Tartans.
The Tartans meet their league arch rivals 
next, the Iron Dukes of Duquesne, to battle 
for first place of the Southern division in the 
WPICHL. Both teams have records of 3 
wins, 1 loss. The teams will face off at the 
Civic Arena on Saturday, January 31 at 3 
p.m.
Coach Donna Pecman has characterized 
her team as lean but mean this year and 
remains confident that they will do well 
against conference rivals like Case Western 
Reserve. The swimmers next meet will be 
tomorrow afternoon at 4:00 PM against 
Bethany.
Hockey Club
by Steve Machemis
The CMU Hockey Club took off to a 
sensational after-break start, by tying the 
University of Pittsburgh (a division II team) 
5 to 5, before an excited home crowd at the 
Civic Arena.
The Ice Tartans hard hitting line of 
Mark Licata, Andy Andrejko and Joe Pajer 
repeatedly forechecked the Panthers until, 
with just three minutes gone, a Pitt defenseman lost the puck on a Licata check. Pajer 
caught the puck and hit rookie Andrejko 
with a pass in front of the net, who put it 
home to take the lead. Unfortunately, only
seconds later, in a confusing line change, the 
puck was left all alone with two Pitt players 
in front of Steve Machemis, CMU goaltender. Pitt capitilized easily, tying the score 
at one apiece. The Panthers wasted no time 
in taking the lead on a breakaway shot that 
once again beat the CMU goaltender.
But Licatas line took the ice once again, 
and this time the Panthers lost the puck on 
an Andrejko check and Licata fired a wide 
angle shot past the Pitt netminder. Now it 
was time for the Tartans high scoring line 
of Jeff Reh, Rick Samuelson and Matt Mad
dalene to take over, as Jeff Reh fired a low 
shot to score on a pass from rookie 
Samuelson.
Unfortunately, CMUs defensive style 
lacked as their offensive style excelled and 
Pitt rallied back with two more goals to take
ABORTION
by Randy Condon and Laurie Southom
The Camegie-Mellon swim team tra
velled to Cleveland last Saturday for their 
first dual meet of the new year against John 
Carroll University. Plagued by illness, the 
Tartans lost to the strong Blue Streak team, 
62-32.
Despite the decisive victory by John Car
roll, the team that is expected to battle 
Allegheny for the Presidents Athletic Con
ference tide, the Plaid did take three first 
places in the meet. The 400-yard medley 
relay team erf Randy Condon (backstroke), 
captain Jim Matysek (breaststroke), Mike 
Kochanowski (butterfly) and Jay Robnett 
won the meets opening event while Con
don won the 200-yard backstroke and 
Matysek placed first in the 200-yard breaststroke. Other fine performances were turned 
in by Jeff Duncan in the 500-yard freestyle 
and by Bill Canilang in the 200-yard 
butterfly.

---------------------------------------------------

January 27, 1981The TartanPage 17
Entries due Thursday in four intramural sports
by Wes Seeley 
The 1981 winter intramural season is off 
d running with three sports underway 
d several other just about ready to get 
rted. Heading the list of sports in season isK
etball which got rolling last Thursday 
ing. The schedules for basketball are 
t and can be picked up in the Intramural 
fice. More teams are needed in the 
omens league. Please call commissioner 
ocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, and get 
ur team in now.
1 Please check the IM bulletin board for 
Slaying schedules, officiating schedules and 
Earn standings. All teams should follow the 
Bfficials schedule as the first officiadng 
Assignment will cost the team its forfeit fee. 
jfhe team will be penalized one half-game 
in the standings for each subsequent 
violation.
f The commissioners for basketball are 
Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, and Wes 
Seeley, phone 687-0843, for the Major 
league; Lou Olive, phone 578-4512, for the 
Intermediate League; Anthony Jones, 
phone 578-4694, for the Minor League; and 
Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, for the 
Womens League.
Also in season is darts. Please get all 
matches completed and turn in the results to 
commissioner Sheila Dunham, phone 578- 
4751, or Mr. Birdy in the Intramural Office.
Debbie Cohen is the backgammon com
missioner, phone 578-5943. Please get all 
games played and report the scores to Deb
bie. All matches not played by the scheduled 
end of the season will be considered as 
forfeits.
This is the last call for bridge teams. 
Entries are due Thursday, January 29 at 4:30 
p.m.. There will not be an extention. Ihe 
commissioner is Eric Theis, phone 682- 
9580.
Thurday, January 29 at 4:30 p.m. will 
also be the final call for handball. The 
defending champions are the Faculty Bul
ldogs and they will be led again this year by 
Tom McNulty.
Time is running out to get in shape for 
IM weightlifting. Lifting starts on February 
12. Contact commissioner Ken Murawski, 
phone 578-4666, for further informa don.
Team wrestling entries are due Thursday, 
January 29 at 4:30 p.m.. Jeff Luce, phone 
683-1699, and William Gens, phone 578-
4452, are the commissioners. Practice ses
sions will be held Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in Thistle Hall 
of the Gym.
Water basketball entries are also due at 
4:30 p.m. this Thursday. The commissioner 
is Gary Petrosky, phone 578-4005.
The Intramural Board is trying to find 
out if there is any interest in IM horseback 
riding. The matches would be held at Maracham Farm in Mars, PA, about a 40 minute 
drive from campus. Participants would 
have to supply their own transportaion to 
the farm which has an indoor ring and lec
ture room. Lessons would take place twice a 
week in the ev ening and would last about an 
hour and a half. A team would consist of 
four riders and there would be three div
isions: beginner, intermediate and 
advanced. There would be 24 lessons over a 
period of three months. Meets would be held 
on Saturdays. The cost would be $240 and 
could be paid in installments. Anyone inter
ested should call Mr. Birdy in the IM office 
at 578-2214 or Bob Dudas at 682-6133.
The next Intramural Board meeting will 
be held on January 29 at 12:30 p.m. in Room 
104, Gym.
Fencers take two of three
Track team looking for members
by Robin Lucas 
The Penn State-Fayette fencing team 
hosted C-MU and McKeeseport last week. 
The Tartans swept the day with a 4 and 0 
victory against Penn State, and a 2-0-1 score 
against McKeeseport. Kris Scigliano, Jay 
Michaels, and Robin Lucas went 
undefeated in the double match. In its away 
tournament with Cleveland State, the team 
lost 1 to 3, but downed the Allegheny team 
present 4 to 0. Despite the loss to Cleveland 
State, the sabre team made a fine showing 
and Scott Rose remained undefeated
through the day. The loss was the first for 
the womens foil of the season.
The C-MU fencing team, coached by Jane 
Fisk, was represented by:
Womens foilRobin Lucas (co-captain), 
Beth Brannick, Karen Schultz.
Mens foilKris Scigliano (co-captain), 
Jay Michaels, James Marshall, Eric Toft, 
Bob Aarhus.
EpeeMike E. Cramer, Darren Shaw, 
Stuart Harrison.
SabreScott Rose, Dan Mapes, Dave 
Golden, Mark Masitis.
I The defending PAC champion Camegiellkellon track team has begun practices for its 
B81 season. Graduation has hurt the 1981 
sbuad and Coach Gary Meckley says that 
||we need more people coming out if were 
going to repeat. We are especially thin at the 
field events but also could use quarternhilers, sprinters and hurdlers.
; Meckley also says that potential trackmen 
Should not assume that they are not good 
enough to make the squad. Too often, peo
ple dont come out for the team until they 
are juniors or seniors only to find out they 
would have helped the team out as fresh
men, said Meckley.
Practices are held weekdays from 4:30 to 
6:00 PM with the team meeting in the 
Donner Hall locker room. If you are inter
ested in running this year, see Coach Meck
ley at practice or call him during the day at 
578-3776.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
Pregnant? 
And you didn*t mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
George Gee returns to WRCT with: The Makebelieve Ballroom (Show) 
Wednesday from 6-9 p.m. on WRCT 88.3 FM STEREO
Quack.
Frank W. Abagnale, the great imposter con man who passed 
2.5 million dollars worth of bad checks while posing 
successfully as pilot, doctor, and attorney for the government 
will speak at Carnegie Mellon University Monday, February
2 in the Skibo Ballroom at 8 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 27, 1981
Planning Commission to decide storefronts fate
by Greg Pisocky
Since construction was completed last 
year, the storefronts below the sororities in 
the Hill apartments have remained empty. 
CMU officials are now involved in a time 
consuming process with the Pittsburgh 
Planning Commission to achieve 
occupancy in the storefronts before mid
semester.
According to Irene Daugherty, Associate 
Director, Auxiliary Services, an attorney 
representing the University has filed for a 
hearing before the planning commission. 
The petition for approval of occupancy in 
the storefronts was presented to the 
commission secretary on January seventh or 
eighth. It will take about three weeks for the 
Universitys request to appear on the 
commissions agenda. We have high hopes
of being able to start something this 
semester, adds Daugherty.
While the storefronts are on a street 
passing through CMU campus holdings, 
Margaret Morrison Street is city property 
and thus the University must comply with 
applicable zoning procedures and 
regulations. The area is zoned residential. 
University officials hope for permission to 
use the storefronts for other than residential 
purposes. The success of the proposal 
hinges on maintaining the residential 
essence of the area.
Tentative plans discussed by Daugherty 
include the possibilty of additional laundry 
services for residents of the Hill dormitories. 
This could also include a pick-up and
delivery service of dry cleaned items for all 
students. A convenience store, similarI* ' uIEntropy, and including the sale of some 
current Bookstore items such as clothing js 
another possibility.
Also being discussed is the establishment 
of CMUs first Dormitory computer 
terminal center, in keeping with Preside^ 
Cyerts announced intention to eventually 
provide every student with a personal 
computer.
One of the more novel proposals is to 
include an expansion of the weightroom 
facilities in the gym by opening a Nautilus 
center. The creation of more office space is 
another suggestion being considered.
Student phonathon begins
/
by Bob Harr
Between January 26 and February 26 the 
Development office of CMU will be holding 
the Student Phonathon Competition.
Alumni donations to CMU are very 
important, says Kim Susko of the Develop
ment office..A students tuition only covers 
about 60% of the educational costs. The 
other 40% is made up by endowments and
Looking for?
work space, 
painting space, 
or
photo space
Room available with 
high ceiling and large window 
Call Mike 781-6827
alumni donations.
The Development office holds Phonathons to ask CMU alumni for donations.
All students, graduate and undergradu
ate, are eligible to compete and prizes w ill be 
given to both the top performing individu
als and groups. Last year individual winners 
were given gift certificates to load record 
stores.
Phoning will be* done Monday through 
Thursday of each week from January 26 to 
February 26. Groups start at 6:00 with a 
pizza dinner, followed by an instructional 
briefing around 6:45. Calling would run 
from 7:00 to 9:00 at the end of which one 
personal phone call anywhere is allowed.
There are 15 open nights for the phona
thon. Interested groups should contact Kim 
Susko, Development Office, fifth floor of 
Warner Hall, extension 2020.
Seniors... Your pictures are ready!!
Strem/Varden Studio will be in 
Skibos Gray Matter on Wednesday, Jan. 28 between 12 
p.m. and 7 p.m.
In order to receive your pictures, 
you must bring your receipt and balance due. 
Note that this is for one day only.
i

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
January 29 
Thursday Film Arts
Autumn Sonata, directed by Ingmar Bergman 
and starring Ingrid Bergman and Liv Ullman. 
Swedish with English subtitles. Ingrid Bergman 
an international pianist (suddenly vulnerable 
after a lovers death) who visits her older daughter 
(Liv Ullman), a self-denying women who aches 
with the memory of her mothers neglect. Their 
euphoric reunion declines as night approaches 
into a subtle exchange of cruelties, triggering an 
agony of recriminations about the past. This 
exploration of rivalry, longing and guilt 
illuminates the frail, yet indestructable bonds of 
mother and daughter.
6, 8 and 10 DH 2210 
January 30 
Friday Films
Murder on the Orient Express, an all star cast in 
an adaptation of an Agatha Christie Novel. 6, 
8:30, and 11 in DH2210. $1 with CMU ID.
February 1
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies 
Dark Victory, starring Bette Davis in her famous 
role as a terminally ill pauent. Considered to be 
one of her best, most reserved performances. The 
President of the United States, Ronald Reagan, 
makes a guest appearance. 2 PM in DH2210. $1 
I with CMU ID.
At Antonian Hall at Carlow College in Oakland. 
Thursday through Saturday at 8:30 Pm and Sun
day at 2 and 7. For more information and reserva
tions, call 731-2445
Through February 8 
Dracula: Sabbat
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre continues its sea
son of plays by Leon Katz. This play focusses on 
the ritualistic aspect of the Dracula legend. The 
show will feature an original rock score by CMU 
music student Michelle DiBucci. Thursday 
through Sunday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. at the Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Cen
ter on North Craig. Advanced reservations 
should be made by calling 621-2876.
Through February 7 
La Ronde
The City Theatre Company, in residence at the 
University of Pittsburgh, presents the Austrian 
Playwright Arthur Schnitzers treatment of the 
relationship between the sexes. Everynight 
except Monday in the Studio Theatre on Pitt 
Campus. Reservadons can be made by calling 
624-6587
Through February 8 
Dusa, Fish, Stas, and Vi
Theatre Express third producdon of the 1980- 
1981 season is a contemporary drama by Pam 
Gems about four women who share a flat in 
London. The play stars three CMU graduate 
students and a current CMU undergrad, Pam 
Norris. Thursday through Sunday at 8:30 p.m. at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Downstairs. 
621-5454 for ticket prices and informauon.M February 1 
SJ Maxine Lapiduss
 A.B. Coffeehouse presents A Class Act with
; Maxine Lapiduss and Michel Skloff, an evening *
of comedy and music. Sunday February 1 at 9 PM J[
I in the Wherrett Room. Free.
theater
Through February 1 
Art/Work
The Iron Clad Agreements final producdon for 
the season. In Chris Blaetzs drama, two brothers 
! struggle to come to grips with their differences.
January 28
Camegie-Mellon University String Trio
The trio is composed of Herbert Greenberg, vio
lin, Randolph Kelly, viola, and Anne Martindale, cello. Greenberg and williams will also play 
in a trio with Pittsburgh Symphony Conductor 
Andre Previn. All three members of the trio are 
also members of the Pittsburgh symphony. The
program will include works by Beethoven and 
Christoph von Dohnanyi. 8 PM in the Alumni 
Concert Hall in the College of Fine Arts. Freefilm
SDC Film Series
January 31
Malibu Beach, an updated, Sevendes version of 
the old Annette Funicello beach party movies, 
featuring a dog with a penchant for ripping off 
bathing suits a la Coppertone Ad. 6,8,10 and 12 
in DH 2210, $.50 with CMU ID.
Carnegie Institute Film Series
January 27
Director series: George Kuchar
George Kuchar, the subject of the Insdtutes 
recent director series will appear at the Insdtute 
tonight and present two new films that he made 
in collaboradon with students from the San Fran
cisco Art Insdtute. After the screening, he will 
discuss his film career. Tonights films, all from 
1980, are One Night A Week, The Woman and 
the Dress, Aqueerius and The Nocturnal Immaculation. 8 PM in the Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater. $2
January 31
Saturday Afternoon Series: Films from 19th Cen
tury English Literature
Treasure Island, directed by Victor Fleming (the 
director of Gone With the Wind). Comedy and 
pathos, as well as acuon are emphasized in this 
version of the Stevenson classic. Wallace Beery is 
Long John Silver. 2 PM in the Museum erf Art 
Theatre. $1.50
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film 
Repertory
January 27
Top Hat, starring Fred Astaire and Ginger 
Rogers. 7:30 and 9:30.
January 28
Orchestra Rehearsal (Italian), directed by 
Federico Fellini. 7:30 and 9:30.
January 29
Peppermint Soda, directed by Diane Kurys. 
7:30 and 9:30.
January 30
Easy Rider, directed by Dennis Hopper. Star
ring Peter Fonda, Jack Nicholson and Dennis 
Hopper. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
January 31
Stardust Memories, directed by Woody Allen. 
Starring Woody Allen, Charlotte Rampling 
and Marie-France Pisier. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
art
Forbes Street Gallery
In the Woodlawn Apartments at Forbes and Mar
garet Morrison. Openings are Tuesday 7 to 10 
Other Gallery hours are Wednesday through 
Sunday, 12:30 to 5 PM and Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings, 7 to 9 PM. 578-2081.
January 27 through February 1 
Janet Martin, Deborah Hosking and Melaney 
Laine Davis:*(a>*(a)!!, a show featuring the 
work, in paper fiber and painungs, of three 
senior art majors.
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
Through January 29
James P. Nelson paintings. The CMU alum
nus features oil paintings of Pittsburgh 
neighborhoods and landscapes among his 
works.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art
Gallery 407, 407 South Craig Street. Gallery 
hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 to 5 
p.m. and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Free.
Through February 1
Harry Holland, paintings and sculpture. A 
highly acclaimed geometric painter, Holland 
is an associate Professor of Painting at 
Camegie-Mellon University.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
On campus typist available professional quality, 
resumes, statistics, anything. Also need reasona
ble paint job for my car. x 3578
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of the 
following: Watersafety, waterskiing, boating, 
soccer, basketball, arts and crafts, rockclimbing, 
nfiery, ham radio, rocketry', science, archery, 
track, tennis, golf, photography, pioneering, or 
general athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red 
Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa 19444.
Address and stuff envelopes at home. Earnings 
unlimited. Offer, send $1.00, refundable to : Tri
ple S, 16243-46 Cajun, Hesperia, CA 92345.
CASH: WANTED, 10,000 Wrecks and
Junkers 23 hrs., 422-9968 -
Telephone sales part-time evenings. On bus line 
from Oakland. Call Lee 381-2066 after 5 p.m.
Audio & video components. Lowest prices any
where. All major brands available. All fully gua
ranteed. Call Bill, PKT 683-1620
Roommate needed to live with 2 people, (idl
361-5124.
Babysitter needed full time for 1 year old. Shadyside 361-1463 or 624-5138.
For saleSeeberg Jukebox. 363-1861
Typing, term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 p.m. if possible.
The interest sessions will deal with the actual 
process of selection and how it works, along with 
discussion on the role of the R.A., his duties and 
responsibilities, and an informal discussion with 
current R.A.s on how they see their jobs. Applic
ation packets will also be handed out at this time.
general
club
To the one I watch:
love you! KBird
Happy 25th Birdkeeper. I
Faculty family living near CMU Campus wishes 
to hire student for cooking (nothing fancy) and 
light housekeeping, weekdays, approx. 4:00 
6:00 p.m. Call after 6:00 p.m. 521-7515.
Attention Everyone! Heres your chance to be a 
model. On Wednesday, January 28, 1981, and 
Thursday, January 29, 1981, from 6:009:00 
p.m. auditions will be held in Breed Hall (located 
in Margaret Morrison) for Spirits Annual 
Fashion Show. No experience necesary. All we 
ask is that women bring a dress/skirt and heels 
and a pair of slacks and fellas bring a suit and a 
pair of jeans. Remember, it doesnt hurt to try.
The CMU Explorer Clubs winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb
ing, day trips and more. A brief meeting is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels of experience are welcome. Funded 
by Student Senate.
The CMU track club ran in the Western Pennsyl
vania Indoor Track Championships at Slippery' 
Rock State College. The womens mile relay 
team placed 4th. Team members included Pat 
Primm, Margie Miller and Joan Wall. Pat also 
competed in the 220, and Joan ran the mile (plac
ing 6th). Phil Miller competed in the mens mas
ters mile and three mile events. We all felt that the 
CMU track club started the indoor season well.
The Office of Residence Life has 
announced that the Resident Assistant selection 
process will begin with three interest sessions, 
taking place on Sunday, February' 1 at 2:00 p.m., 
Wednesday, February' 4 at 9:00 p.m., and on Sun
day, February 8 at 2:00 p.m. All sessions will be 
held in Skibo, Room 45.
If you wish to apply to be a Resident Assistant, 
you must attend one of the three interest sessions.
The Senior Banquet will be held on Saturday, 
January 31,1981, in Skibo. All seniors are invited 
to attend the Wine and Cheese Reception at 7:30 
p.m. in the Ballroom, the Banquet at 8:30 p.m. in 
the Cafeteria, and the dance scheduled for 10:00 
p.m. in the Ballroom. The band Smile will 
provide live entertainment during the dance, and 
this event is open to the entire campus commun
ity. Dress is semi-formal for these events and 
seniors must RSVP by picking up their ticket at 
the Alumni Office, 5th floor Warner Hall, by 
Wednesday, January 28. Seniors must present 
their student IDs when picking up their tickets.
Thunder in the skies will be shown on 
Wednesday, January 28 at 11:30 AM and 11:30 
PM in the WTherrett Room, Skibo as a part of the 
Connections series.
Professional and Administrative Career 
Examination 
Materials are now available in the Office of 
Career Services and Placement for the Pace 
examination.
This examination gives you the opportunity to 
compete for a wide variety of entry-level jobs in 
Federal Government agencies. Jobs filled 
through this examination are trainee positions 
leading to advancement to higher-level profes
sional administrative jobs.
Application Period: January' 19,1981 to February' 
13, 1981
Testing Period: March 7, 1981 to May 2, 1981. 
Mease stop by the Office of Career Services and 
Placement as soon as possible, Room 19, WH for 
the Announcement, Instructions and Applica
tion.
Jugglers meet at 1:00 PM every sunday in th, 
main lobby of CFA. All are welcome. Info. Q|| 
Pam x4383.
The Beaux Arts Ball tickets are on sale now at il1(, 
Fine Arts Box Office. Tickets will lxsold until 
Friday, February 20, Monday through Friday 
from 2 PM  I PM. Tickets are $15 for each Fin(, 
Arts student and $20 for each Fine Arts faculty 
staff and alumni. Each student or staff member 
may purchase 2 tickets and each faculty member 
or alumni may purchase1 4 tickets. Fhe Beaux 
Arts Ball will be held on Saturday evening, February 28th from 10 PM until 6 AM. Sponsored by 
the Fine Ails Department.
official
The (ISO's funds were frozen at last Tuesday's 
Student Senate meeting. To unfreeze their funds, 
Rich Hanusek, chairman of the finance commit
tee, required that they apologize to the entire 
campus. This is the apology the Tartan mewed: 
The GSO {xjsters advertising the recent Ronald 
Reagan movies should have read All students, 
faculty and staff invited, and should have 
included the words funded by student activities 
fee. Fhe GSO apologizes for these1 errors.
Richard Korf
for the Graduate Student Organization Assembly
Red Cross: Ready for a new century.
A Public Service of This Newspaper
& The Advertising Council (Stnca
At Great "X" were looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS
(Wosh-Cut-Blow)12 00
Mon. Tu*. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Erl. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
297 Atwood ktrMt 
Across th# stroof (row 
Oakland Post OfBco 
6*7-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appoinfmontf
C
act now
At the corner of 
5850 Ellsworth 
and College
Celebrating our 2nd Anniversary with this offer.
363-0505
Shadyside Nautilus Fitness Center
3 months 65.00 
6 months 99.00 
9 months 132.00 
12 months 160.00
Limited memberships available at these rates.
