TARTAN
March 7,1978 Volume78, Number 22 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
New dorm construction begins May 16
by Stuart Seidman
Auxiliary Services has announced that 
the plans for the new Hill dormitory are 
now complete and that construction 
should begin the day after graduation. The 
university received final approval on their 
request for a zoning variance last Monday 
and the dorm was put out to bid yesterday.
The construction of the new dormitory 
is expected to cost $1,600,000. The uni
versity is paying for the construction with 
a low interest loan of SI.635 million from 
the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development in Washington. Furnishings 
are budgeted at $65,000.
The architect for the dorm is the well 
known Pittsburgh firm of Damianos and 
Pedone. D&P are best known on this cam
pus for their renovation of the Tartan 
Grill in 1976. They have been working on 
the dormitory project since last spring as 
well as renovations for all the Hill dorms.
A special feature of the complex will be 
the creation of student activity space. Bill 
Dillon, Director of Auxiiiaiy Services, en
visions that this space could be used for an 
extension of the bookstore, a satellite 
food operation, student offices, or a stu
dent corporation venture.
The new complex will house 192 stu
dents. It has facilities for three styles of 
living. The building in the rear of the 
complex will house four 8-student co-ops..Campus Ministry 
plans Hunger Awareness Week
by Andrew L. Ragan
An opportunity for you as a member of 
the CMU campus community to aid in the 
fight against starvation throughout the 
world has been announced by the CarnegieMellon University Campus Ministry
Council.
The organization, which is comprised of 
the Baptist, Catholic Central Christian, 
Christian Science, Episcopalian, First Uni
tarian. Jewish, Lutheran, and Presbyterian 
faiths op campus, invites members of their 
congregations and all members of the 
campus community (administration, 
faculty, and students) to participate in its 
World Hunger Awareness Week from Mon
day, March 13, to Saturday, March 18. The 
campaign coincides with this season of 
spiritual preparation for various upcoming 
religious celebrations
The weeks activities include a series of 
lecture-discussions which have been 
planned for the following days at 12:30 in 
the Wherrett Room of Skibo:
Monday, March 13: The Ecoruttnics of 
Hunger will be reviewed by Dr. Egbert 
De Vries from the University of Pitts
burgh.
Wednesday. March 15: The Polities of 
Hunger will he discussed with Reverend 
David Evans who is ihe Director of 
CROP.
Thursday. Mutch 16: Disease and Hunger 
will he the topic of a presentation given 
by Dr. David Barhouse, M.D., who was 
a medical missionary to India and is 
presently on the staff of West Penn 
Hospital
continued to pg 2
Stepping down the hillside will be twenty 
4-student apartments. Finally, along Mar
garet Morrison Street there will be five 
16-student sorority houses. All of the 
individual rooms sleep two people and each 
unit has a living room and a kitchen. Ac
cording to Dillon, the purpose of building 
this variety of spaces is to give the students 
the opportunity to live in the type of fac
ilities that they prefer.
The spaces are to be occupied under 
the standard housing contract with resi
dents paying on a per bed basis.
A related project will be the continuing 
upgrading of the houses along Roselawn 
Terrace. According to Dillon the heaters 
are in good condition and the roofs are 
new. The next few years will see the in
stallation of new windows and bathrooms.
The contractor will be required to fin
ish construction of the new dorm by May 
31, 1979, allowing occupancy for the fall 
term of 1979. Originally the dorm was to 
be occupied this September, but the Uni
versity discovered that they would need 
two zoning variances. The first one was re
ceived in January which permitted dormi
tory construction.in a residentially zoned 
area. The other variance, received only last 
Monday, was to adjust the setback require
ments to allow construction of the central 
courtyard.
The 
1979 Ml term.
CMU suicide rate above average
by Caroline Hayes
At the beginning of last semester several 
letters and articles appeared in the TAR
TAN concerning the rumor that CarnegieMellon has the highest suicide rate of any 
college in the country. An article from the 
October 25th TARTAN, Students Exag
gerate High Suicide Rate, made it clear 
that this was only a rumor. It also men
tioned that no national studies had been 
done on the subject, making it impossible 
to compare CMUs rate with any other. I 
got interested and decided to do a study 
myself.
1 wrote to fifty colleges. (The size of 
my sample was limited by the amount I 
was willing to spend on postage!) Forty 
were chosen by closing my eyes and sticking 
my finger in the index of Barrons Profiles 
of American Colleges. That was to get a 
random sample. The remaining ten were 
taken from Barrons list of most compet
itive and highly competitive schools, to 
get a sample of schools academically com
parable to CMU. Here are the results: From 
the fifty letters sent out 1 got twenty-eight 
replies. Six of them either would not give 
out or did not keep information on suicide. 
That left me with a sample of twenty-two 
to work with.
1 found that Carnegie-Mellon does not 
have the highest suicide rate in the country 
by any long stretch of the imagination. Its 
rate was only 5.56 suicides per 100,000stu
dents per year while others I found were: 
Berkely -17.55, Harvard -15.0, Yale 13.0, 
and (name withheld) 44.12. (All suicide 
rates mentioned are in units of suicides per 
100.000 per year and deal only with under
graduates.)
CMU does have a slightly higher than 
average suicide rate. The rate for CMU was 
5.56 while the average from the random
sample was 2.59. But CMUs suicide rate is 
not unusual for a school of the same aca
demic standing. Rates of other schools listed 
by Barrons as highly competitive (the 
same as CMU) include: Bucknell University 
8.33 and Carleton College-3.34. The av
erage for schools listed as highly competi
tive was 4.73.
I also looked at the data to see what the 
effects of academic standing and size were. 
1 found that competitive schools tended to 
have higher suicide rates than noncompeti
tive ones. Small schools had about the same 
average suicide rate as large ones. The av
erage rate for small schools (those with an 
undergraduate enrollment of under 3000 
the average size found in this sample) was 
2.64. The average for large schools (those 
with an enrollment above 3000) was 2.67.
It is important to remember that these 
figures are only tentative. Suicide is a rather 
rare occurrence; the rate given for a particCarotme Hayes, a biology major, conducted  
survey of college suicide rates.
ular school may be based on only one or 
two incidents. Figures given often covered 
a very small number of years. Many schools 
did not officially keep suicide statistics, so 
their replies were based on the personal 
knowledge of their employees. This means 
that the rate listed for an individual school 
may not accurately indicate anything about
that school. However, the average and general trends found are probably pretty good 
continued to page 2
news...
Kiltie Marching Band a reality (pg. 3) 
Inside Washington (pg. 9)
How to improve your reading skills 
(Pg9)
entertainment...
Pennsylvania Ballet at Heinz Hall 
(Pg1)
Lovelace marionette Theater Company 
(Pg18)
sports...
Whitewater canoeing (pg. 27)
Tartans named all-conference (pg. 28) 
Swimmers fare badly in PAC (pg. 28)
fol io...
Do it yourself (pg. 13)
Statements 
of Senate 
Candidates
(pages 4 and 5)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANMarch 7, 1978
Ministry Council plans sdc space
Hunger Awareness WeekThere was no SDC meeting last week 
because of February break*
rate: 22.1 4.73 0 1.47 6.96
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
The fact that The MBAMcalculator was designed 
for business professionals is a great reason for buying one while youre a student.
continued from page 1
reflections of the true situations. 
Suicide rates at various schools:
Average suicide rate compared to academic 
standings:
MC HC VC
Average
Suicide 1978 Texas Instruments Incorporatednews. tr.aimpera.
INCORPORATED
Father English of Campus Ministry encourages 
the campus community to fast for charity.
CMU continues
continued from page 1Friday. March 17: A representative from 
the Hunger Action Coalition will be 
with us to discuss the topic What can
I do about hunger?
An information booth will be open 
each day from 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM and 
from 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM in Skibo where 
you will be able to obtain brochures and 
literature, while viewing slides and films 
which relate to hunger.
Perhaps the biggest event of the week is 
the one which requires a more definite
amount of interest and sacrifice in order 
that it succeed. It is a twenty-four hour 
fast which is scheduled to take place from 
5 PM on Friday. March 17. to 4:30 PM on 
Saturday, March 18. Participants are asked 
to get sponsors who will back their fasts 
with monetary pledges per hour. The 
money collected will then be given to 
OXFAM AMERICA, an organization which 
aids the hungry and has the lowest adminis
trative costs (less than 10%) of all the or
ganizations considered by the.Council for 
this project. OXFAM is involved in Hunger
to meet 
energy mandate
According to a memo from Joseph P. 
McNally of Physical Plant, as of March 3, 
CMU is running 10% under the electrical 
usage mandated by Duquesne Light. The 
Duquesne Light meters show an average 
daily usage of67,200 kilowatt hours (KWH) 
Our allowable daily average is 76,905 KWH.
Vice-president Van Horn stated that 
there has been very good cooperation all 
over the university with regard to cutting 
back electrical consumption. He estimates 
that the mandatory cutback will continue 
at least until the end of this month.
Suicide rates
School: ComNo. suiEnrollsuipeticides ment: cide
tiva(underfy0 rate:
ness*: grads): yrs.
(name withheld)MC3885044.12
Bennington C.MC0505950
Carnegie-MellonHC163,0005.56
Bucknell U.HC143,0008.33
Amherst C.HC051.3000
Carleton C.HC1171,7603.34
(Random Sample:)
U. of RochesterVC0124,2500
Kalamazoo C.VC0121.5500
U.of ConnecticutC1515,4001.30
Ripon C.C1251,0004.00
St. John's U.C157,6002.63
Transylvania U.C01.57260
Northrop U.C1282,0001.78
St. Mary's C.C01,5500
Illinois C.C0177820
Mount Vernon C.C03400
Bloomsburgh C.C1104,6522.15
Briar Cliff C.C097000
Clemsom U.C3710,0004.286
Delta State U.LC03,2000
Albany Stale C.LC->101,67011.98
Fort Valley St.LC02,1670
Ken. WesleyanLC1790015.87
average of 
random sample: 2.59
*MC - most competitive 
HC - highly competitive 
VC - very competitive 
C  competitive 
LC - less competitive
We designed The MBA to 
help professionals arrive at 
fast, accurate answers to a 
broad range of business and 
financial problems. The same 
ones youll face in your busi
ness classes.
Interest, annuities, ac
counting, finance, bond analy
sis, real estate, statistics, 
marketing, forecasting, quanti
tative methods and many more 
course applications are in your 
hands with The MBA.
This powerful calculator 
also features preprogrammed 
functions that let you perform
more difficult calculations at 
the touch of a key. Instantly. 
Accurately. You may also enter 
your own programs up to 32 
steps long, saving significant 
time if 
youredoing 
repetitive 
classwork 
problems.
The 
MBA comes 
with an 
illustrated 
text, Cal
culator
Analysis for Business and Fi
nance. This new guide shows
you how simple calculator 
analysis can be with The MBA 
calculator. Its 288 pages of 
understandable, easy-to-follow 
reading. And its coupled to 
more than 100 real-world ex
amples that show you step-bystep how to make calculator 
analysis work for you as never 
before.
If youre building a career 
in business, The MBA business 
financial calculator can be one 
of your strongest cornerstones.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS P^n 
...INNOVATORS IN vftPj 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
V???????????
Relief and Development programs that 
encourage self-help. To conclude the fast, 
the Ministry Council is sponsoring a break
fast which will be held at 4:30 PM in the^ 
Wherrett Room of Skibo. The Council asks 
that participants in the fast skip supper on 
Friday along with Saturday breakfast and 
lunch and that they collect their pledged 
monies and turn them into Rev. Jonathan 
Appleyard, CMU Campus Ministry Council. 
Skibo Information Desk, by Wednesday, 
March 22.

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978TARTANpage 3
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
Last Tuesday evening, Senate learned 
that WRCT received an invitation from the 
White House to send a representative to 
meet with President Carter and other col
lege news organizations. Chas Sislen was 
chosen to represent WRCT, and was in 
Washington this past weekend.
The station asked for another budget 
increment to cover the expense of a topo* 
graphical survey required by the Federal 
Communications Commission. The survey 
must be completed before a new antenna 
can be erected.
In regard to the antenna, Senate has also 
agreed to match three for one the money 
raised by WRCT for its proposed invest
ment. Steve Kane claims that the ideal 
location for the antenna is atop Warner 
Hall and it is also the least expensive lo
cation proposed.
According to the figure stated in the 
TARTAN, the university loses $150,000 to 
vandalism. Senator John Tumazos felt that 
Senate should take action on the vandalism 
issue, as the mentioned figure could adequately cover all student activities or even 
pay AMS instructors salaries.
Stu Friedmans appointment to Student 
Corporation was confirmed by Senate.
The ballots of the upcoming elections 
will have a referendum asking, Should the 
student activities fee be raised from $25 
to $30 per year to permit funding of activ
ities at the level now approved by Student 
Senate?
The Finance Committee supports raising 
of the fee, for if it were raised, only $2000 
would have to be sliced from the current 
budgets. Alternatively, if the activities 
fee remained at $25, budgets would have 
to be cut drastically.
The importance of raising the fee was 
also stressed by John Lubon, who moved 
that club athletics be eliminated, in ad
dition to budget cuts for all other clubs, 
if the fee was not increased. His motion 
was at first carried, but was rescinded by 
Mike Inners, who claimed that it was un
fair to discriminate against the athletic 
clubs. Senate finally passed a motion 
which read that all club budgets would be 
decreased by a certain percentage if the fee 
was not increased.
Although Senate has started the budget 
hearings, the complete and final results will 
appear in the TARTAN next week.
Senate will hold the final budget hear
ings this evening at 7:00PM in the Wherrett 
Room. Clubs are asked to have a represen
tative present to clarify and defend 
budgets.
Vote
in Student Government 
elections 
March 
9 and 10
Lubon leaves office, 
offers advice to students
John Lubon has gained and accomplished much 
from participating in student activities.
Marching band approved
by Lennie Matjasko
John Lubon, President of Student Gov
ernment, has announced that, as of the 
fall term of the 1978-79 school year, there 
will be a Kiltie Marching Band.
Three months ago, Lubon was ap
proached by a number of students with the 
idea and proceeded to check into the feasi
bility of a voluntary non-music student 
Kiltie Marching Band. With the help of 
Dean Swank he then drew up a proposal 
for such an organization to Prsident 
Cyert. And Dr. Cyert has approved it.
According to Lubon, the plan is to dev
elop a Kiltie Marching Band for a threeyear experimental period, at the conclusion 
of which the viability of the organization 
will be assessed.
The Band will be funded in part by Stu
dent Senate and in part by the university. 
At last Tuesdays Senate meeting, $805 
was allocated to the Kiltie Marching Band. 
This money will pay for office expenses, 
uniform maintenance, music holders, and 
instrument repair. The university will pay 
an estimated $3000 to a part-time director. 
Uniform replacement has not been includ
ed in the budget because, as the proposal 
states, the current supply of uniforms 
should last during the three-year period.5* 
Lubon explained that if the band is a^ 
sessed as viable after three years, then ap
proximately ten new uniforms could be 
purchased each year until the band is com
pletely outfitted with them. Funds for 
these uniforms may be supplied by the alumni or the university, or by money raised 
by the band itself.
John also explained that the Kiltie 
Marching Band would be analagous to 
Scotch V Soda. That is, the participants 
would not necessarily have to be music 
majors, and the director would hold pri
marily a supervisory, policy-making posi
tion, while the students would write all of 
the shows.
The director has not yet been hired, 
but, according to Lubon, will be within 
the next few weeks. In choosing a director, 
Lubon stated,  Were concentrating on alumni members that are currently high 
school band directors.
Lubon knows of at leasi twenty stu
dents who want to join the Kiltie 
Marching Band, and expects ivtcmy io 
twenty-five freshmen to become involved 
next year. He instructs anyone interested 
to contact him or Cindy Lubon.
by John Lubon
I have held the office of President of 
Student Government since last spring. In 
the past few months I have had many new 
thoughts towards Student Government, my 
education, and my future.
There is no question that CMU has 
many things to offer in addition to course 
work, things which are an equally valuable 
part of a good education. CMU gives you 
the opportunity to work in activits that 
are completely managed by students. Fol
lowing up interests while learning how to 
work and communicate with other stu
dents is something that cannot be learned in 
class, but such experience is essential on 
the day you begin to work in the outside 
world.
Freshmen and sophomores have a tend
ency to stay inactive. Probably their gener
al feeling is one of incompetence. But get
ting involved is the only way to overcome 
this. Organizations such as Tartan, WRCT, 
Activities Board or any other clubs are ex
cellent ways to become involved.
The administration is always receptive 
to and often in search of students input. 
And organizations such as Faculty Senate 
have many committees where student in
put is necessary. The administration has a 
responsibility to meet the needs of the stu
dents. However, the students also have a 
responsibility to make these needs known. 
Sitting in your room will not solve any
thing. If you feel strongly about the needs 
of the students, do not be afraid to become 
involved.
*111 1 tt II
: 11 im73S&11im
At Republic, 
youre not just another number. 
Of course, 
a shot at number one isn't bad
We re looking for individuis with freewheeling imagination With initiative Not just 
another corporate number At Republic, we have room for your ideas And they 
can take you far Even to number one, if that's your ambition We'll provide 
training, so that you can develop your interests and talent On your part we'd like 
a commitment of genuine interest
Ybu should be an engineering graduate, interested in positions in 
production supervision, maintenance supervision, and industrial engineering 
Or an accounting mator with supervisory ability, to join our 
accounting staffs.
Or a metallurgist with the talent to contribute to maintaining and 
improving our precise quality control standards
We offer good, competitive salaries An outstanding benefit program 
And involvement in an energetic, constantly-growing company in an industry vital 
to everyone
Wsd Hka to meet you and hear your ideas. So aaa your Placement 
Officer to sign up for an interview when we visit your campus soon. Or writs 
Craig G. Smith, Supervisor, College Halations and Recruitment, Department 
406, Republic Steel Corporation, Cleveland, OH 44101.
ItepuliHcsteel
An Equal Opportunity Employer
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4-TARTAN-March 7, 1978
Student Senate, Government
Presidential hopefuls express views
John Tumazos
This year, the race for Student Govern
ment will be close. On the surface, both 
candidates have very similar qualifications 
and the voter has a tough decision to make.
As Academic Affairs Chairperson and 
John Lubons assistant, I face the bureau
cracy of Warner Hall continually. I know 
the problems that all of us face. A Presi 
dent who doesnt know what the problems 
are cant solve them.
The Student Government has three func
tions: to represent the students at Warner 
Hall, to support student organizations, and 
to provide effective and active leadership.
First, CMUs student body needs a voice 
The university, which is traditionally run 
by management scientists rather than hu
manists, has been insensitive to student 
needs. Examples abound: the housing con
tract, overcrowding, departments without 
faculties (AMS), good programs cancelled 
(Music Education), instructors that dont 
speak English well, high attrition rates, ris
ing tuition, and the emphasis on research 
rather than teaching. Only a united student 
body A'ill effect change.
Second, the activities fee allocation sys= 
tern must be changed. Too much responsi
bility lies in the hands of too few people. 
This year, for example, the Finance Com
mittee allocated $23,000 more than it has. 
In addition, the committee cut $75 from 
WRCTs budget for records while allowing 
the Baseball Club's $70 request for sanitary 
hose. The budgetary process should be 
both fair and consistent. The activities 
fund-$l 15,000 of the student bodys 
money-deserves better attention.
I have an idea for a better system. The 
President of Student Government or a 
committee of student leaders would issue a 
brief statement of priorities concerning the 
funding of student activities. The Presi
dent or the committee of student leaders 
would then present a balanced budget to 
the Senate. The Senate would have the fin
al say, but power would hopefully reside 
with individuals who reflect the interests of 
the entire student body.
If elected 1 intend to be an active Presi
dent; for an apathetic leader is no leader at 
all. The Student Government President ap
points the Treasurer of Student Govern
ment and an assistant to the President, and 
has the power to create special committees 
to deal with unique problems. I intend to 
use the office to the fullest,, My treasurer 
will work closely with the Finance Comm
ittee to improve the budgetary process. My 
assistant will act as a general trouble-shoot* 
r. I will appoint a Grievance Committee to 
hear and act upon pressing student prob
lems. Finally, I will work with interested 
student leaders to revise the budgetary 
process, which so badly needs a complete 
overhaul. Carnegie-Mellons student body 
deserves a better Student Government.
Greg Ellis
My .overall objective is the betterment 
of campus life for all students. Specifically 
I pledge to work for the following:
1. Fight an increase in the activities fee 
and put pressure on the administration, 
trustees, and Athletic Department to sup 
port all intercollegiate athletics, including 
hockey and baseball. :
2. Get more bang for the bucks from 
the present activities fee.
3. Attract more qualified and dedicated 
individuals into Student Government
4. Forcefully represent the students in 
all university government bodies.
I promise notimi>. hn i'll fight for the 
students against an activities fee increase. I 
say this for a number of reasons, one of 
which is the nature of the job of Student 
Government President,, The winner of this 
election will not have the absolute power 
to do anything; therefore, I promise no
thing. The Student Government President 
is, however, the voice of the students when 
dealing with the Board of Trustees and ad
ministration. Through these people, and 
Student Senate, the President has the po
tential to improve both the quality of edu
cation and campus life for the CMU stu
dents.
I will fight an increase in the activities 
fee until a student referendum indicates 
that a majority of students want such an in
crease. There would be no need for a fee 
increase if the acitivities fee wasnt funding 
athletic teams such as the Hockey and 
Baseball Clubs which should rightfully be 
funded by the Athletic Department. If 
elected I will do all I possibly can to put 
pressure on the administrators, trustees, 
and Athletic Department to stop using the 
students as patsies to pay for intercol
legiate athletics.
Student Senate has been plagued by apa
thy for as ong ui.jone can remember, 
and this is truly unfortunate. In order to be 
successful, the new President will need a 
strong Senate. Senate luis the potential to 
do much more than iust distribute $125,-
000 in a<tivitie.  hu n onl\ be as 
good as its membcis and in the piit has 
failed to attract many competent people. 
In the future, Senate should better pub
licize its functions and accomplishments in 
order to get the students concerned and 
involved in its operation.
There is an on-campus housing shortage.
and, although nobody can magically create 
more dormitory space, we can make the as* 
signment of housing as equitable as pos
sible. The university can also do a better job 
of locating off-campus housing for stu
dents.
As AMS Junior Class Representative last 
year I worked with Professor Kerr and my 
fellow students to improve the quality of 
die department. The AMS Department 
needs at least one more full time faculty 
member, and more extensive teaching in
struction should be given to PH.D stu
dents.
I have been a student at Carnegie-Mellon 
for four years, first in the AMS department 
and now at GS1A. I served as Chairperson 
of the General Campus Committee in Stu
dent Senate two years ago, and our major 
accomplishments were lighting the tennis 
courts and sponsoring a United Way stu
dent fund-raising campaign on campus.
In closing, I would encourage all 
students to vote in the Student Govern
ment elections this Thursday and Friday as 
the actions of Student Government affect 
us all.
Student Senate 
candidates
CFA
Although Senate seats for the College of 
Fine Arts are available, no petitions were 
submitted.
CIT
Mary Ann Lawton
As a sophomore in the Electrical Engi
neering Department (CIT), I feel that 
Senate is an organization that should 
reflect the student body's opinion on 
University policy and action. Many 
students are uninfonned about things 
going on within the University. My reason 
for seeking a Senate seat is to inform my
fellow students of what is going on within 
the school and to represent their views in 
Senate.. Students must take an active 
part in government if they would like to 
change undesirable aspects of the university 
and I would like to help them.
Mary Ann Lawton.
candidates
Geoffrey Vrbancic
After studying Mechanical Engineering 
for diree years and after observing with 
interest the current of events here at CMU,
I have decided to try and become a senator 
representing CIT.
Working in student government in 
high school and holding responsible offices 
in the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity have 
prepared me to work in a governing body 
which concerns itself witii responsible 
allocation of money.
Allocating the students money with 
a regard for the wishes of the CIT con
stituency will be my general concern. 
If elected, I will carefully evaluate my
priorities, but right now I am happy 
with Senates decision to support student 
club athletics and with their real attempt 
to make Senate an influential and co
hesive force to communicate to the ad
ministration student concerns about items 
such as tuition raises and housing pro
blems. I sense an awareness of Student 
Senate throughout the student body which 
is greater than at any time in the three 
years I have been here. I feel compelled 
to become a part of making Student 
Senate an even more active and impor
tant voice on campus.
Cynthia Lubon
My name is Cynthia Lubon and I would 
like to represent the college of CIT in the 
Student Senate. I'm a freshman planning to 
major in Mechanical Engineering and En
gineering and Public Policy. Along with my 
involvement on the Lectures and Special 
Events Committee of Activities Board, I am 
also a member of Alpha Phi Omega and the
Society of Women Engineers. Student 
Senate is an important organization that is 
delegated a considerable amount of respon
sibility and power. The student body needs 
to be informed of its workings and 
potential to provoke the interest that will 
allow it to work to its fullest.

---------------------------------------------------

voice platforms
John Lubon
I have decided to run because of my 
past experience with Senate. I am leaving 
office as President of Student Government 
and would like to stay active in Senate.
i ward
support should be determined by weighing 
many questions carefully. I feel that I 
could weigh these issues fairly and arrive at 
an appropriate distribution. I would also 
like to work on John Tomazos committee 
to improve effectiveness of student input 
in university administrative decisions.
??fr????????
H&SS
In the past I have been involved with 
the alumni, trustees, as well as various 
administrative committees. I hope to apply 
this knowledge to making the new Senate 
as voiceful and powerful as possible.
Joe D'Agostino
I am interested in the allocation of acti
vities fee in an equitable manner. There is 
increasing concern with the present system 
of allocation of our activities fee. My feel
ing is that all groups which provide some 
reasonable benefit to students and incur 
some cost during this process should be 
supported by Senate. The extent of this
Elaine Smith
Im tired of the Student Senate clique. 
They seem to be a bunch of people that 
everyone hears about but no one sees. 
Sure, theyre probably all nice people, 
but why doesnt my senator ever attempt 
to find out how I feel about things? The 
current senators dont bother to determine 
H&SS opinions, which is no way to serve 
the students. Things are getting down
right stagnant around CMU, and I have no 
intention of going to a stagnant school 
for two more years.
Danielle (Danni) Smith
The most important qualifications to 
have are time and a true interest in wanting 
to help solve the problems CMU students 
encounter because they lack information 
on how students should and could deal 
with the administration. People who dont 
bother to share their political experiences 
in Senate with students who are not in 
Senate are selfish. This probably accounts 
for the apathy on campus. Senators must 
be sensitive to students needs regardless 
of what college they represent. I would 
like to help implement a program that 
would enable students who cant find the 
time to make time, to become more pol
itically active on campus.
PREPARE FOR:
MCAT  DAT  LSAT  GMAT 
GRE  OCAT  VAT  SATNMB I. II. Ill * ECFMG * FLEX - VQE
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Fltxibl* Program* A Hours
There IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661-2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY 4 CENTER AVE.I
M
-HN
EDUCATIONAL CCNTfR
TST WUPAHATIOW SMCIAUSTS *NCf lM
Outside N Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800 223 1782Center >n Maior US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano. Switzerland
Trr,*T4ir*err,r^m*Ei
6IANT
THE AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY OF THE 
ENGLISH LANGUAGE. 4000 Ulus., 1600 Pages 
Magnificent dictionary contains over 155.000 entries, incl. 
over 10,000 geographical and biographical entries, over 200 
maps of countries of the world, more than 800 notes on 
word usage, and authoritative definitions of new scientific 
and technological words, written in large, easy-to-read for
mat. Bound in genuine Leather, Thumb Indexed. 8V4 x 11 %. 
Pub. at $35.00 Only *19.96
FRANK SCHOONOVER: Illustrator of the North 
American Frontier. By C. Schoonover. 200 Illus., 48 Color 
Full Plates. Renowned illustrator, painter, frontier 
photographer and naturalist Frank Schoonover is esteemed 
as one of America's finest artists. The best of his work, from 
his vivid and dramatic depictions of Western life to the 
famous illus. for the "Christmas Classic" series (Robinson 
Crusoe, King Arthur and Ivanhoe) has been selected for this 
first major study of his fascinating career. All the dynamic, 
adventurous illus. that captivated an entire generation have 
been painstakingly reproduced in this lavish volume. 1054 x 
11/.. Pub at $35.00 _ Only $12.96
LIBRARY OF WORLD POETRY. Ed. by William Cullen 
Bryant. 67 Illus Handsome vol. contains more than 1000 
distinguished poems, many difficult to find elsewhere. Ind. 
Poems of love, childhood, nature, tragedy, humor, Shelley, 
Longfellow. Dry den, Byron, Thackeray. Browning, 
Wordsworth. Whittier, more. Bound and stamped in 
simulated leather and gold.
New. complete ad. Only $4.98
International Cook Book Series: AN ENCYCLOPEDIA 
OF CHINESE FOOD Er COOKING By W. W Er I. B
Chang and H. W. Er A. H. Kutscher 8 Ful Color pages, 96 
Halftones. One of the most complete Chinese cookbooks 
ever published 1,000 major recipes from all over China. Incl. 
history, ingredients, buying, preparing, storing, cooking 
methods and utensils, shopping by mail, special diets, teas, 
wines and much, much more . . Styles incl. Mandarin, Sczechuan, Cantonese, Hunan, Shantung, Shanghai, and 
Fukien. 8x 10%. Orig. Pub. at $17.50
New. complete ed. Only $7.96
THE MGM STORY: The Complete History of Fifty 
Roaring Years By J.D. Eames Over 2.000 Illus. in Black Er 
White and Fuli Color. AH the films of MGM through 1976 are 
described and illus. in Full Color and black and white in the 
complete story of MGM published for the first time Plus all 
the legends, gossip, triumphs and unpublished stills 9K x 
12%. Pub. at $25 00 Only $12.96
THE COMPLETE WORK OF MICHELANGELO 1040 
Illus., 32 Full Color Plates. Most magnificent, comprehensive 
vol ever published on Michelangelo and his work Lavish ar
tistic reproductions and authoritative text vividly bring to life 
the full scope of the artist's achievements. Incl. the historic 
and artistic personality of Michelangelo, sculpture, painting, 
architecture, drawings, philosophy, writing, more. With full 
visual and written discussion of all his works hcl. the Pieta, 
David, Moses, the Ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, the dome of 
St. Peter's, more. 600 Pages. 11 x 15. Orig. Pub at $60.00
Only $29 96
LEONARDO DA VINCI. 1635 Illus . 20 Full Color Plates. 
Originally published in Italy by the Instituto Geografico De 
Agostini, this new ed is the most lavish, authoritative vol 
ever produced on Leonardo. Faithful photographic 
reproductions and text by 37 leading European scholars 
make this a comprehensive study of the foremost genius of 
human knowledge that Leonardo explored and picturing him 
as an artist, architect, sculptor, inventor of machines, diviner 
of the laws of nature, biologist, hydraulic engineer, forerun
ner in the domain of flight, more 538 Pages 11 x 15. Orig 
Pub at $60.00 ___ Only $29 96
MODERN PHOTOGRAPHIC TECHNIQUES By W
Frethen. Over 250 Photos and Illus . 50 in full color Camera 
techniques for amateurs and advanced photographers, with 
hints on how to achieve better composition by using the best 
accessories for the camera, correct films, lighting, and filters 
any time of the yeear. 7 % x 8 %. Sensational Value Only 
$7 96
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM 
SHAKESPEARE. 28 Illus. Luxuriously bound complete 
edition containing every word that Shakkspeare wrote - aH 
37 tragedies, comedies and histories, plus the sonnets, etc. 
1248 pages bound in sumptuous simulated leather and stam
ped in simulated gold. Orig 2 Vol. Set Pub at $20 00
Deluxe 1 Vol. Ed. Only $4 96
GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES. From the famed Crane edition. 
Lavishly illustrated with the original, elegant drawings and 
plates. 19 classics include The Sleeping Beauty, Rapunzel. Hansel and Gretel. Tom Thumb. Snow White. Rumpelstihakin. Impressively bound and stamped in simulated 
red leather and gold.
Extra Special Value Only $1.96
LOST NEW YORK. By N. Silver Over 190 Photos. Many 
rare photos are printed here for the first time in this rich pic 
torial record of the New York City buildings that have 
vanished forever in the name of progress, incl. the original 
Madison Square Garden, the old Waldorf Astoria and Rrtz 
Carlton, Park Avenue's pedestrian mall, cast-iron buildings, 
both World Fairs, more. Orig. Pub. at $15.00 New, com
plete ed. Only $7.98
THE ARTHUR RACKHAM FAIRY BOOK. Over 70 IHus.. 
Some in Ful Color. Charming collection of best loved fairy 
tales lovingly illus. by one of the world's greatest illustrators 
Incl Jack and the Beanstalk, Cinderella, Ali Baba, Hansel 
and Gretal, Rip Van Winkle, 18 more.
New. complete ed. Only $3.98 
THE NEW WEBSTER ENCYCLOPEDIC DICTIONARY 
OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE, including a Dictionary 
of Synonyms, and 12 supplementary reference sections: 
Popular Quotations, Classical Mythology, Business Law Er 
Finance, Names, The Story of America in 332 Pictures, 211 
Flags in Color. Biographies of the Presidents with their pic
tures in color. Space Age Terms with 15 plates in color. More 
than 1400 pages, large format 8 >4 x 11 % over 3 inches thick, 
weighs over 5 lbs. Handsome leatherlike binding with 
simulated gold stamping and edges, head and footbands. 
Pub at $39 95 Only $12.96
ALTERNATE WORLDS: The Illustrated History of
Science Fiction. By James Gunn, Intro, by Isaac Asimov. 
Over 700 Photos and Illus, Many in Full Color. "Speculative 
writing" is traced throughout man's written history, from 
Homer to Hemlein Filled with excerpts from great works 
and full-color reproductions this  a mental feast and 
a visual orgy tor all science fiction fans Pub. at $29.95
Only $7 96
THE COLORFUL WORLD OF BALLET. By C Crisp and E. 
Thorpe. Over 175 Photos, Most in FuH Color. Dancing, 
classical and modem, is beautifully presented in this new, 
superbly Hus. vol. Spectacular color photos reflect the 
magnetic appeal of great stars, famous classics and out
standing achievements of choreography. Plus an illus. guide 
to classical ballet steps. Extra Value Import Only $6.96
GREEK COOKING. By R B Kershner Illus. throughout in 
Full Color. Loaded with zesty. mouth-watering recipes from 
the culinary center of the Mediterranean. Incl Mousaka. 
Stuffed Eggplant. Egg Er Lemon Soup. Baklava more.
Special Only $2.96
GRAND OLE OPRY By J Hurst. Intro, by Roy Acuff 463 
Illus, 265 in FuN Color. Produced with the cooperation of the 
Opry and its stars, this vol. is a visual treat for everyone who 
enjoys Country and Western music. Filled with hundreds of 
fascinating photos. Grand Old Opry incl. the legendary per
formers as well as today's stars: Minnie Peart, Johnny 
Cash. Hank Williams. Dolly Parton, Tammy Wynette 
and many, many more Plus discography 1014 x 1354. Pub. 
at $35 00 Only $14 98
THE ORIGINAL WATER COLOR PAINTINGS BY JOHN 
JAMES AUDUBON FOR THE BIRDS OF AMERICA.
431 Exact Reproductions in FuN Color from the Original 
Collection. Text by Marshall B Davidson Audubon's 
priceless original paintings have been reproduced in Full 
Color with photographic accuracy Over 1060 birds plus 
hundreds of flowers, shrubs and trees, all suitable for 
framing Sumptuous paper and binding. 862 Pages, weighs 
12 lbs. 11x13 Orig. Pub in 2 Vols at $75.00.
New, complete One Vol. Ed. Only $29.96
fill lUl'Jr
sonori ovsdcp
THE COLOR ENCYCLOPEDIA OF WORLD ART By J.
Jacobs 256 FuH Color Illus Sumptuous, comprehensive and 
most useful, this luxurious vol. containing nearly 2400 entries 
offers essential into on painters, sculp**. architects and 
schools of art from prehistoric times to the present Incl the 
essence and spirit of the artist's work, his goals and in 
fluence on other artists, broad listing and desenption of 
styles, schools, and movements, a glossary of terms, more 
8% x 11* Pub at $25 00 Only $1296
THE NEW YORKER ALBUM OF DRAWINGS 1925 1975
500 of the best comic drawings culled from 50 years of The 
New Yorker magazine. Ind Charles Addama, James 
Thurber. Peter Armo. George Booth. William Stetg. 
George Price and scores more Pu at $15 00
With Any Order of $10 00 or More Only $4 96emu bookstoreIN BAKER HAIL

---------------------------------------------------

The current Senate Budget hearings and controversy resulting from finance cutbacks to 
various organizations has illuminated the lack of funds available for student groups. There 
is not enough money to fund the student organizations' requests, simply because the ac
tivities fee does not provide sufficient resources. As representatives of Activities Board, we 
propose that the student body support a $5.00 increase in the present $25.00 activities fee.
Last year the student body voted down a referendum to raise the activities fee by $5 
(per year.) Maybe this result was due to the minority of students who voted; or maybe it was 
due to the fact that students do not realize to whom the activities fee actually goes. Since 
the referendum is coming up again and motiviated by an interest in the result, we would like 
to point out some aspects of this decision on behalf of Activities Board.
The activities fee goes into the Student Account, which Student Senate then appro
priates to the student organizations, such as Activities Board, TARTAN, WRCT, Student 
Corporation, Spirit's Black Week, Scotch 'n' Soda, Spring Carnival, etc. In the past the $25 
fee has been sufficient. But with inflation, greater number of organizations and more com
prehensive and diverse programming increase is necessary. To continue the extensive 
programming now provided for students, which provides both the opportunity for par
ticipation and enjoyment, this raise is worthwhile.
Five members of Activities Board recently attended a convention of representatives 
from programming/activities boards at colleges and universities from all over the country 
There they learned the activities fee at other schools ranged rom $30 to $100, with a definite 
average of $50 apparent at schools comparable to Carnegie-Mellon. We feel that at CMU 
we provide some excellent programming with the resources available. But we are restricted. 
The minimal $5 increase in the activities fee would alleviate these restrictions and provide 
funds for more programs of higher caliber.
Do you know what pays for free lectures, free weekly coffeehouses, free dances? A free 
concert at the park? A free weekly newspaper? Films for free or $1? Radio from 3 p.m 
3 a m. (and 6 a.m. - 11 a.m. recently)? Student employment services? The list is endless but 
the point is clear.
Our purpose here is to appeal to the students at CMU as concerned fellow students to 
vote on March 9 & 10 to raise the activities fee from $25 to $30 a year. This increase will 
benefit us all. We care because to provide the campus community with a diversity of ac
tivities we will need the money. Thank you for this opportunity to reach the campus and 
state our position.
Sincerely,
Jean M. Becker, AB Chairperson
David Mongeau, Film Arts Chairperson
on behalf of Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978TARTANpage 7
CHECK YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPER FOR THEATRE LISTING
Steve Kane after the radiothon: "My alarm won't 
be set tomorrow."
After working a few minutes, and par
taking of some coke and potato chips in 
celebration, Steve got ready to leave 
WRCTs studio. He said he planned to sleep 
until noon the next day, but when asked if 
he were going to be strict about getting up 
at that time, he replied, My alarm wont 
be set tomorrow.
As he walked out the door, tired and tri
umphant, he was mumbling a joke about 
the money hed raised, and a trip to Hawaii 
for the staff.
Although WRCT appreciates the gener
osity of all who have pledged money so 
far, the station will accept donations until 
the $25,000 goal is reached. Anyone inter
ested in pledging may contact Steve Kane 
or call WRCT at 578-2883.
Kane survives WRCT marathon
by Linda Aldridge
At 8:00 PM on March 5, the WRCT ra
dio marathon ended. Through fifty hours 
of hard work, WRCT had succeeded in 
raising $24,000 of its target dollar amount 
of $25,000. The money will be spent on 
purchasing a new antenna, necessary elec
trical equipment, and the labor needed to 
actually erect the new antenna.
Before the radiothon began, Student 
Senate approved a measure to give WRCT 
three to one matching funds; if the station 
could produce $1, Senate would produce 
$3.
Approximately $1,000 in pledges to 
WRCT came in before the radiothon even 
began. After forty-nine hours and fiftyfour minutes of the marathon, another 
$2034 had been pledged by the campus 
community. At that time, Steve Kane, disc 
jockey for the marathon, placed a phone 
call to President Cyert. Dazed, but in con
trol, he waited for the President to pick up 
the line.
President Cyert, this is Steve Kane.
Yes.
Uh...Fve got...uh...2000 and uh...l2 
dollars.
O.K.
Can you help me?
Yes, well, I told you I would.
All right. Actually, Ive got 2034 dol
lars. You can make up the difference? 
Yes.
Thank you President Cyert.
Is this your fiftieth hour?
Friday nighr before anyone else in the world, you con feel
A FRANK YABLANS PRESENTATION 
A BRIAN DePALMA FILM 
THE FURY
KIRK DOUGLAS JOHN CASSAVETES CARRIE SNODGRESS CHARLES DURNING AMY IRVING ANDREW STEVENS 
Produced by FRANK YABLANS Directed by BRIAN DePALMA Executive Producer RON PREISSMAN 
Screenplay by JOHN FARRIS Dosed upon his novel Music JOHN WILLIAMS 
RRESTRICTED SoundtrocK Album on ARISTA RECORDS G TAPES
<578?Ot*CNJUKY FOX COLOR 0Y DetUXt S 1*0* I .
Right.
All right. Bye-bye.
The burden of responsibility lifted from 
his shoulders, Steve Kane walked out of 
the booth. There was a round of applause. 
How do you feel?
Tired. A moment later,Very re
lieved.
When asked if the call to President 
Cyert was planned, Steve replied, Presi
dent Cyert and I had spoken before. We 
agreed that I would call.
After being congratulated by the staff 
and all the members of the Green Bean 
Team (the motivating force behind the 
station, according to staff member John 
J Alexander), Steve began to talk about the
2 success of the marathon, and about his
2 conversation with President Cyert. ObRight. It ends in six minutes.
Sounds like youre pretty tired. 
Yeah.
O.K. Well, you can announce it then. 
Right.
O.K.
Right.
Oh, oh by the way, youre on tape. 
O.K.
O.K.?
viously tired, he persisted in doing his job 
until it was done. Green Bean Team.* 
Theres records to file. Im going now to 
the record file. To file. Anybodys wel
come. Someone replied, I dont think 
sixty of us will fit in there, but the DJ 
went on into the record room undaunted.
wmm*,
i ridoy nighr you ore cordially invited ro a special preview of a major morion picture which will be one of rhe mosr terrifying and fascinating experiences you wiil ever see in a movie theater.
it is a one-mght-only preview And a once-in-a-lifetime motion picture.
T!f I CAN'T SEE
WHV WHEN ARENT
Campus Minu turyisrlHgu
EXECUTIVE POSITIONS IN 
THIS COUNTRY! \
Ik (MB)
U/HV? BECAUSE VOU 
THINK IT'S UNFAIR?
/ . NOPE...
_!_..... ......................................1 .r........................ !
Remanan

---------------------------------------------------

Personalities
Princess Grace appears at International Poetry Forum
by Chas Sislen
February 25 marked Princess Graces 
first visit to Pittsburgh. And it also marked 
her return to the American stage after a 
twenty-six year retirement. Best known 
for her performance in Country Girl,
Grace Kelly retired to marry Prince Rainier 
of Monaco.
The Academy Award-winner came to 
Pittsburgh for a special International 
Poetry Forum entitled Birds, Beasts and 
Flowers. The poems in the program 
dealt with conservation, and are in cele
bration of International Wildlife Year. 
Performing with her at Carnegie Hall was 
Richard Pasco of the Royal Shakespeare 
Company. All poetry selections were
chosen by the director, Mr. Carroll.
Proceeds of each performance will go 
towards different charities. The proceeds 
of the Pittsburgh Forum will help to fund 
university theaters, while other shows 
will benefit wildlife foundations. Prince 
Rainier is extremely involved in conserva
tion. He is president of an association 
which is grouping all Mediterranean coun
tries in research to combat pollution.
Even though Princess Grace was recent
ly offered a part in Twentieth Century 
Foxs The Turning Point, she said it 
would be impossible to return to her 
previous position in the movie industry, 
and that it seems unlikely that she will 
ever fully return as an actress. My re
sponsibilities are in Monaco.
When asked about the openness in 
contemporary movies, the Princess respon
ded adamantly against the trends toward 
sex and violence. She said such trends 
have had an adverse effect on children 
and that they should be stopped.
Continuing on the topic of children, 
Princess Grace expressed a concern that we 
are putting children in schools too soon. 
Youngsters today have no recollection 
of not having been in school. They were 
born in the classroom. I think this is 
wrong.
Princess Grace does not have any mis
givings about leaving the movie industry. 
As she put it, Ive been very lucky. I
dont have regrets. I dont look back. 
I dont think that someone should look 
back. One should move on and -look 
ahead. Everyone can find regrets if they 
look for them.
Although she has not appeared on the 
silver screen for twenty-six years, Princess 
Grace has lost none of her striking beauty 
or poise. Her only beauty secret is short 
and simple: she tries to keep healthy.
On Monday, February 27, Princess 
Grace received an honorary degree from 
Duquesne University as a Doctor of Hu
mane Letters.
WRCT will be broadcasting the inter
view with Princess Grace, Mr. Carroll, and 
Richard Pasco on March 12.
HOWHKH 
IS OUR
(Economics Quotient)
CAN YOU ANSWER 
BASIC ECONOMIC 
QUESTIONS LIKE THESE?
True False
? ? (l.)Oneoutof
five American workers belongs 
to a labor union.
? ? (2.) Producers of 
goods outnumber producers 
of services in our economy.
? ? (3.) US. coal 
reserves are the worlds largest.
? ? (4.) Inflation 
reduces the standard of 
living of people on relatively 
fixed incomes.
If you found these 
questions tough, your 
Economics Quotient, your 
E.Q., could probably stand 
some improvement.
A special booklet has 
been prepared to help you 
learn more about what 
makes our American 
Economic System tick. It's 
fact-filled, easy reading and 
free. It s also an easy way to 
raise your E.Q.
For your copy, write: 
Economics, Pueblo,
Colorado 81009.
ANSWERS: i/frlTd 1*1
The American Economic System.
We should oil born more about it.
Call your father.
Hes the one you always call when you need money. But when was the last time 
you called him just to say Hi? To tell him you really appreciate his help. To tell 
him to come and visit you.
Call your father tonight...Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself, 
station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., youll be able to talk for ten minutes 
for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial-direct rates do not apply to person-to-person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number.
Dial-direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available.
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Inside Washington
New York 
Rep. Bruce 
Caputo fights 
corruption in D.C.
by Frederic Siegel
Several months ago, while riding the 
House of Representative subway to a 
roll call, my employer. New York repre
sentative Bruce Caputo, leaned over and 
asked a colleague,' what are we voting 
on?" The reply, "Your expulsion, you 
little bastard."
Bruce Caputo is currently the most pub
licized congressman on Capitol Hill. As a 
young treshilian iepie!*;niaiivt, Capuio has 
been seen regulatiy on "The Today Show," 
"Good Morning America, " and the CBS, 
NBC, and ABC evening news programs. He 
has graced the covers of The Washington 
Post, The New York Times, and has been 
covered by People Magazine. In addition 
to being the most publicized congressman, 
Bruce Caputo is probably the most dis
liked. In fact, most people on the Hill 
wish that Bruce Caputo would just go 
away. A graduate of Harvard Business 
School and Georgetown Law School, 
Caputo has earned his notoriety as a mem
ber of the infamous House Committee on 
Standards of Official Conduct, or as it is 
commonly known on the Hill, the House 
Ethics Committee.
As a highly responsible member of the 
Committee, Caputo has worked long hours 
with the hope of restoring public trust in 
Congress. To many of his colleagues, how
ever, Caputo is a pest that won't go away. 
Shortly after his assignment to the Ethics 
Committee in 1976, Tongsun Park, a sus
pect South Korean CIA agent and busi
nessman. entered the picture. It appeared 
that Park had maintained an influencebuying operation in the once hallowed 
halls of Congress. Park had given parties 
and gifts to members of Congress in 
exchange for favorable legislation. When 
the committee investigation of Park began 
ilowmg down. Caputo gui undeistai.dably
Frederic Siegel
upset. After all, a freshman congressman 
doesn't expect to lake office ana find more 
than several congressmen selling legisla
tion. He fought for full disclosure, a bra
zen and necessary new ethics code, pledges 
from committee members that none had 
ever received gifts worth more than $25 
from foreign governments, and a full-scale 
investigation into the often questionable 
activities of Representative Daniel J.Flood.
The reactions to the efforts of Caputo 
have been misinterpreted and downright 
nasty. He has been spit on, has had his 
heritage insulted, and has been publicly 
bad-mouthed by fellow colleagues, includ
ing the all too powerful Tip ONeill. The 
reactions to this well-intentioned freshman 
have been negative because Caputo repre
sents change. He doesn't believe that 
congressmen have the right to take all they 
can get. He wants to change the common 
belief that politics is dirty. Congress needs 
a spring cleaning and Caputo is going to 
clean up regardless of how many of his 
colleagues attempt to intimidate him. 
Following his return from the Park testi
mony in K<> Caputo was amazed at the 
number ot people involved, "The horror 
stories ai\ shocking By, what some 
guys have done."
I have worked for Caputo since Decem
ber and have been greatly impressed. The 
man is sincere about his intentions to 
strengthen the character of Congress. He 
is one of the most dedicated and hard
working men I have ever met. It's sad that 
so many members of Congress aren't as 
sincere as Caputo. Bruce Caputo, however, 
represents the new breed of congressman. 
He isn't in politics for himself. He ran for 
public office because he had an authentic 
interest in his fellow man. I believe he'll 
continue to fight because he cannot be 
intimidated and because his purpose is 
worthwhile
The TARTANneeds newswriterscall 578-2111
Study hints 
Improve your 
reading skills
About 85 per cent of the work you do 
as a college student involves reading. If is 
the single most important learning skill, 
and yet many students are bogged down in 
poor reading habits that can make studying 
a chore.
Reading is the visual ability to under
stand words and their relationship to one 
another. To improve reading skills you 
must increase your capacity to see and 
grasp the grouping of words, or ideas, at 
a speed that is comfortable for you. The 
key is to move your eyes at a rate that 
allows your brain to absorb the main ideas 
printed on a page.
Remember, your eyes, like fingers for 
the piano or legs for jogging, must be 
trained to be skillful. If you would like to 
tune up your reading skills, these basic 
steps will help.
STEP 1: EVALUATE YOUR READING 
HABITS
Do you vocalize words in your mind, or 
move your lips as you read? You may be 
using the childhood habit of sounding out 
each word. This slows you down.
Do strange words constantly stop your 
progress? Your vocabulary needs improv
ing.
Do you read every single word separate
ly? Train your eyes to span phrases and to 
group thought units together.
Do you have to back up and reread very 
often? You are not paying attention. 
Force yourself to concentrate.
Do you read everything at the same 
speed? Your speed should vary with the 
subject matter.
Are you reading faster now than when 
you were in high school? Skillful reading is 
an art and needs continual practice.
STEP 2: PROVIDE THE RIGHT ATMOS
PHERE
To read effectively, you need to set the 
scene for concentration. Pick a quiet place 
where you can read with a minimum of in
terruption. Have a pencil ready for taking 
notes.
Most individuals find that 15 inches away from their eyes is a comfortable di* 
tance to hold a book. Make sure the light
ing is good.
Radio, television, and music all pull 
your attention away from the words and 
ideas you are reading.
STEP 3: USE YOUR EYES EFFICIENT
LY
The eyes see printed words and transmit 
them to the brain. They are the key to how 
well you read.
Eyes perceive words only when they 
stop moving or make what is called a fix
ation.  During the pause, the brain regis
ters what the eyes have seen. Depending on 
your eye span, you will perceive one, two 
or more words in each fixation. The aver
age college student, for example, has a 
span of 1.1 words and makes 4 fixations 
per second. By increasing the number of 
words your eyes include in each fixation, 
you increase your reading speed
Train your eyes to take in more than 
one word at a time. You can make your 
eyes fix on related words, phrases, or short 
lines in one brief stop. This sentence, for 
example, should be read in five fixations: 
"The cost of oil/has risen/because of/ 
limited natural resources/ and increased im
ports."
Vocalizing words, even in your mind, 
slows down your eyes* Dont allow your 
eyes to wander backward. Try not to re
read sentences. You will find that you re
member more if you can keep moving for 
ward. This does not mean, of course, that 
you cannot review what you have read.
Many people need glasses to read well. 
Blurred words, constantly tired or itching 
eyes are signals for an eye examination. 
Don't put it off.
Compare your present reading speed 
with the following averages. The speeds 
generally accepted for average readers 
are: easy-to-light material, 250-350 words 
per minute (wpm); medium-to-difficult 
material 200-250 wpm.
Time yourself for two pages of easyto-average material and then compute your 
reading speed. Next, ask yourself some 
questions about what you have just read. 
If you missed important details, your speed 
was probably too fast for your present 
reading ability.
Read three or four easy-to-average ar
ticles each day for two or three weeks. 
Make yourself go a little faster, but not so 
much that you miss key points. Record 
your speed.
Switch to more difficult material for 
another two or three weeks of practice. 
After six weeks you should have increased 
your speed and comprehension consider
ably.
Aim for a speed on easy material of 
about 300 wpm. At that rate, you are 
doing as well as the average good reader.
N Maintain the habit by reading at least a 
half hour a day.
The pleasure and benefits of reading 
make it a rewarding hobby throughout 
life. You will be enriched by keeping up 
with newspapers, magazines and books. 
You will also enjoy more as your pro
ficiency increases and will be continually 
adding to your knowledge.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Squelching 
An ugly rumor
Rumor has it that this weeks editorial will be a vicious 
attack on apathetic students, a stirring discussion of the 
benefits of democracy, and a desperate plea to vote in the 
Student Government elections this Thursday and Friday.
These rumors are greatly exaggerated, if not entirely 
false.
Though getting people to vote in elections has always 
been a difficult task and the last Senate election saw only 
a 10% turnout, we believe the coming election will see 
much different results.
The mood on campus seems to be shifting from one of 
passive unhappiness to anger and unwillingness to accept 
things that displease. The overflowing crowd that turned 
out to complain to President Cyert at a recent Senate meet
ing supports this belief. So do the heated letters and views 
exchanged in the TARTAN between students and ad
ministrators about housing conditions. WRCTs extraor
dinary 50-hour marathon this past weekend said without 
a doubt that there are people who want to change things. 
And the number of students who responded to the mara
thon said there are people who are willing to help these 
changes come to pass. Everyones cooperation during the 
current energy shortage says that people care enough to 
act. Residence Life Programming, new this year, has come 
up with a number of good activities that people are partici
pating in. Clubs on campus are alive and kicking: Society of 
Women Engineers, only one year old, is already 99 members 
strong. The Law Club is making noise, as are the Baseball 
and Hockey Clubs. Our AIESEC chapter will soon host an 
area-wide conference. President Cyert is holding open office 
hours. Hunt Library conducted a survey this year to aid 
them in improving library services; changes (to be made 
soon, we hope) can only be for the better. Campus Program 
Planning has brought us a number of good lectures and 
seminars, most recently the 6 at 8 series. The Kiltie Band 
has been saved by students, despite the lack of encourage
ment from administrators.
And the events board in front of the Ski bo Information 
Desk promises that SPRING IS almost HERE. Things are 
looking good.
We dont feel were cock-eyed optimists, therefore, for 
believing that Student Senate will also benefit from this up
surge of interest.
And there are certainly good reasons to vote. Things are 
looking good, but theyre not perfect yet. This is why the 
TARTAN supports John Tumazos in the race for Student 
Government President. His concerns indicate that he is acutely aware of the areas that still need change and improve
ment. More important, Tumazos is capable of effecting such 
changes; his past record shows this.
The TARTAN also supports the $5 increase in the stu
dent activities fee. The present $25 fee is no longer enough; 
student organizations cannot perform at their maximum 
with the money now available. The Finance Committee has 
for next year allocated over $20,000 that Student Senate 
just doesnt have to give out. This means that with all their 
chopping and cutting of dub budgets, Finance Committee 
cant find the money either; there isnt enough to go around. They have unintentionally pointed out the need for 
more money-from students for students. The activities fee 
is ours to be used for our enjoyment. The $5 increase per 
person-not an unreasonable amount-adds up to a great 
deal when multiplied by the five thousand-or-so students 
who will benefit from the additional activities dubs will be 
able to carry out.
These are our suggestions on how to vote. Were confi
dent that students will vote. We have already come far this 
year; there is so much more that we can gain by continuing 
to be involved.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
Financial Follies
Editor:
I felt pretty good when I left 
the Finance Committees budget 
hearing on the Karate Club. Sure, 
categories were cut from the pro
posed budget, but 1 felt that it 
was an equitable budget which we 
could stick to if everyone in the 
club tried to help next year. The 
parting words from Dan Cordes 
(Head of Finance Committee) 
were still ringing in my ear as I 
walked down the hall, Dont 
worry, well let you know ahead 
of time when Senate will review 
your budget.
When I went to discuss a diff
erent matter with Dean Cox earli
er today, she consoled me on the 
recent demise of the budget which 
was ^approved by the Finance 
Committee and the approval of a 
new budget consisting of a 19% 
cut in the Senate subsidy alloca
tion. Cautiously 1 asked when this 
had happened, to which she re
plied, at the last Senate meet
ing. I soon learned that I was not 
alone in being the uninformed 
party. Only one organization was 
able to get a representative to the 
meeting in time to explain their 
clubs budget.
It was not until the Law Clubs 
budget came up for discussion 
that Dean Cox, who is not allow
ed to vote but is allowed to give 
an opinion, suggested that the 
procedure that Senate was using 
was unfair to the organizations 
who did not even know that their 
budgets were being reviewed. 
John Lubon then championed 
Dean Coxs suggestion when Sen
ate moved to increase the Law 
Clubs membership dues. With a 
feeling in Senate apparently op
posed to Dean Coxs suggestion 
and Lubons reaffirmation, Lu
bons motion for adjournment 
was defeated. Thinking quickly, 
Lubon moved for a roll call to see 
if a quorum was present. Without 
a quorum present Senate was un
able to finish off the Law Clubs
budget as well as the remaining 
clubs budgets.
Unfortunately, Senate did not 
take Dean Coxs or Mr. Lubons 
advice; the heads of student or
ganizations were not informed of 
the next Senate budget hearing on 
Monday 3/6 (as of this writing). 
Oh, to have the wisdom and fore
sight so necessary to be a Senator 
in Camegie-Mellons student gov
ernment!
Paul Schoff 
Law Club President
Champs in our Hearts
Editor:
I would like to take this time 
to give my congratulations to the 
Tartan Basketball Team. Even 
though they didn't win the P.A.C. 
title, these guys need to be com
mended for the fine work they 
have done throughout the season. 
Basketball is a sport that requires 
a lot oftime, effort, and work, 
and I must personally say that our 
team under coach Maloney did 
that. No, they are not P.A.C. 
champs, but they arechampions
TARTAN
Volume 78March 7, 1978Number 22
f ditor-in-ChtKiSherry Siegel
IVi.ii jgmq t cJitor.Tim Shields
Business Manager :Ellen J. Silverman
News Editor:Lennie Matjasko
Entertainment Editor:Casey Childs
Folio EditorK.A. Yaksich
Sports Editor:Mike Jochmann
Photography EditorV.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: Linda Aldrige
Photography Staff: Skip Bra/elton, Tad Die 
Production Assistant: Joan Livitski
.kenson, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Segal
Copyright 1978 by the Cj;negte-Meiion University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication, f unded in part by the Student Govern 
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Fditorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 br 2112. Business Oft ices v StobyiJ52, (4/12), 576^2,1,1) ,,t
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Julian Singer on the 
issue of abortionView From The Campus
In 1973, the US' Supreme 
Court under Chief Justice Burger 
liberalized the abortion laws. This 
unprecedented court decision le
galized abortions in the following 
ways: they are readily obtainable 
in the first trimester of pregnancy 
in consultation with a liscensed 
advisor, during the second trimes
ter of pregnancy no state may 
govern the course of the abortion, 
except when regulation is limited 
and relates to preserving the 
mothers health, no state may out
law abortions except in the case 
where the foetus becomes viable. 
In the wake of this decision, 
instead of the issue being settled, 
the public is again questioning 
the morality of abortion. This
moral controversy has left a trail 
of separate but equally adamant 
pro and anti-abortionists. But the 
answer to this issue does not lie 
in moral arguments backed by 
subjective lines of reasoning and 
emotionalism. To properly ana
lyze this dispute, a logical ap
proach that weighs all alternatives 
while maintaining ethical consi
derations should be used. The 
result of this perspective will show 
that it is imperative to keep 
abortion legal.
For the preservation of peace 
and order in society, compulsory 
laws are set down. To abide by 
these laws is in the best interest 
of the community as a whole.
Yet often, segments of society 
will advocate the repeal or passing 
of laws that benefit them alone. 
Much damage occurs when an 
issue is dominated by the beliefs 
of a particular interest group. This 
type of selfish influence can be 
connected with anti-abortionist 
groups. Anti - abortionists rely 
heavily on religous persuasion to 
assert their position. Yet does not 
this country separate the state 
from the church when governing 
its people? The religious over 
tones coming from the antiabortionists camp can only taint 
the issue and call for allegiances 
where they do not belong. This is 
not to say that religious beliefsmore Letters
in every sense of the word. To our 
seniors: if you keep the determin
ation that you had throughout the 
season you can and will be able to 
obtain whatever you desire. You 
did a great job . Congratulations!
Dawn Drake
Disgusting Behavior 
Editor:
I am appalled at the actions of 
many of the movie-goers who at
tend the AB movies on Fridays in 
Doherty Hall 2210. My particular 
grievance, though, is with a parti
cular group which attended this 
movie on the 24th of February, 
1978. Such things as the yelling 
of obscenities, the throwing of 
drinks on the audience, and the 
lewd actions which took place do 
not aid to the public's enjoyment 
of the movie or to their opinions 
of this group.
Throughout the movie, these 
people talked and screamed vulgar 
comments, totally ruining the im
pact of the movie. Then, the next 
thing I knew, I was being covered 
(along with my date) with a show
er of beer. Obviously, these people . 
were allowed to carry this beer
into the movie with them. It was 
my understanding that this was 
against school policy. As if this was 
not bad enough, one of the group 
had the audacity to relieve himself 
(urinate) down in the stairwell 
located in the back of the room.
I feel that nothing needs to be said 
about this: it speaks for itself.
Throughout this circus. I dis
covered from whence this band of 
rogues had come. Although they 
are not identified here, I will say 
that they were members of one of 
the fraternities here on campus. 
Their actions, therefore, reflected 
poorly on themselves, and on our 
Greek System here at CMU. I say 
"our," because I am a member of 
a fraternity myself and the reputa
tion of our Greek System has con
cerned me very much.
These actions should not be tol
erated and should not have to be 
tolerated by anyone. Money is paid 
to see a movie and to enjoy it, not 
to be showered with beer, filled 
with dirty language, or disgusted 
by vulgar actions. I trust that 
either AB, Security, the school, or 
if need be, the audience will not 
allow these things to happen again.
A Concerned Greek
Saby Seal Massacre 
Editor:
About March 12, Canadian seal 
hunters will begin their annual 
massacre of infant harp seals. 
These baby seals are only 23 
weeks old, still too young to 
know how to swim. Defenseless, 
these infant seals are brutally 
beaten to death by clubs. Any 
adults nearby are shot.
Even if the method used to 
slaughter these animals were hu
mane, the killing of the magnifi
cent creatures should be stopped 
as their mumber has now dwin
dled to about 800,000. In fact, 
last year sealers could not find 
enough cubs to beat to death to 
meet the quota, and this year the 
quota has been raised to 180,000.
You can help save these in
fants! Please, write a short note 
of protest or send a postcard to 
Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, 
Office of the Prime Ministei, Ot
tawa, Canada K1A0A2. It need 
not be elaborate; simply state 
your feelings-that killing 180,000 
infant seals is wrong!
Jayne Feierstein
on abortion have no merit; they 
do, but only for those of us who 
believe in God. To non-believers 
this type of argument is illogical 
and violates their freedom to 
express themselves.
"Right to lifers also advocate 
their position on the premise that 
conception of the foetus creates 
a life and soul, and its abortion 
is another form of murder. Yet 
how can the existence of a life 
and soul be determined? Even our 
most eminent scientists still regard 
this as an enigmatic problem. 
Does the life and soul become 
consummated at the thought of 
creating a child, when the egg is 
fertilized, or when the foetus 
takes on human form? If the defi
nition of the life and soul is so 
nebulous, can abortion be called 
murder or can we better say 
abortion is the prevention of a 
potential life?
These semantics do not solve 
the problem of defining life. Since 
no substantial definition has yet 
been developed by the sciences in 
this regard, the individual must 
determine his or her theoretical 
interpretation of when the foetus 
can be considered a life with a 
soul, so long as no existing laws 
are violated. In no way must a 
segment of society dictate their 
opinions to the rest of us. Society 
can mandate the intricacies of de
fining life only when the science 
of life is understood and its theo
retical implications known.
The necessity of abortion is 
also illuminated by the social 
and economic problems it alle
viates. In many abortion cases 
the mother does not want to bring 
a child into an impoverished 
world. The inability of a family 
to support an additional child or 
the lack of a supportive father 
leaves the mother no choice but 
to abort the foetus or put the 
child up for adoption. When the 
choice is between abortion or 
adoption, often adoption is eco
nomically infeasible to a working
mother since it complicates her 
ability to function for nine 
months. Adoption can also be 
unacceptable due to the rigors and 
~ discomforts of preganancy.
Socio-economic conditions also 
indicate a social predicameni 
our society faces today. It is a 
common observation that a life of 
social and economic inequities in 
the slums breeds anti-social be
havior. It should be societys 
objective to decrease the popu
lation in the slums, not the oppo
site. If society chooses to outlaw 
abortions many young and unwed 
mothers in slums will be forced 
to bear unwanted children. This 
will increase the population of 
young living in squalor, indirect
ly augmenting deviant behavior.
A major argument which tries 
to abrogate the socio-economic 
necessity of abortion states, the 
responsibility of sex bears certain 
consequences which must be 
faced. Yet the woman is singled 
out to shoulder the responsi
bility of an act that took two. 
Should her life be impaired, 
leaving the male the minor respon
sibility of support if he is so 
willing? Doesnt the woman feel 
enough emotional torment from 
the abortion alone, without en
tangling her life with an unwanted 
child?
The most important point is 
that a pregnant womans existence 
pre-empts that of the potential 
existence of a child. It seems con
trary to intuitive judgment that to 
ruin an existing life by bringing 
in one more is productive and 
morally right. Whether or not 
a woman decides to abort, her 
decision is an individual moral 
prerogative. This being the case, it 
is more reasonable to allow 
women to consider the option of 
abortion as it corresponds to their 
own beliefs and needs. Rather 
than having the right of privacy 
invaded, women should be given 
the vejy personal freedom of 
choice.ANNOUNCEMENTS
The TARTAN is looking for a new business
manager for next year. If you're interested 
call the TARTAN executive office: 578- 
2112 or contact Ellen Silverman 578-3965.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students durinq March and 
April. The first date for these meetings is 
Wednesday, March 8, between 3 and 5 PM 
in his office. Students who wish to meet 
individually with the President should 
telephone his office, 578*2200, for an 
appointment betw 3 and 4 o'clock. 
The hour between 4 and 5 o'clock will 
be open for students who want to meet 
with the President but do not have an 
appointment. It is hoped that this new 
program will be of benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing 
students direct contact with him.
PREMEDS PREPARING FOR PODIA
TRIC MEDICINE: Apiil 1. 1978 is the 
deadline for submission of applications for 
the 1978entering class.This deadline makes 
it possible for students planning on entering 
in Fall, 1978 to use the required New 
MCAT which will be taken on April 15, 
1978. See A. J. Streiff, Doherty Hall 2114, 
for details.
Student-Alumni Relations Council (SARC)
presents a Spring Seminar Series on Tues
day, March 7, 1978 at 7:30 PM in Room 
45-Skibo. The topic is Tips on Looking for 
a Summer Job featuring guest speakers: 
Robert Nelson, Assistant Director of Career 
Placement; Frank Rath, Jr., AM'69, Vice 
President of Spang Stores Co., and Robert 
Luthult/, Chariman, Career Development 
(SARC). Perspectives on job hunting 
through the eyes of a Placement Officer, 
a Businessman, and a student.
Final Yearbook Sale: This is absolutely
the last chance to purchase a 1978 Thistle. 
Due to the great enthusiasm of the stu
dents, we are giving you a last chance to 
purchase your book, filled with lasting 
memories of CMU. The sale will be from 
Mon. March 6, to Fri. March 10, in Baker 
Hall lobby from 10 AM to 4 PM. Only the 
full $10 will be accepted. Those who have 
$5 outstanding towards their yearbook 
will be able to pay at this time also.
"Strategic Planning in National Security
Affairs" will be discussed by Thomas Brown, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense 
(Strategic Programs), on Thuisday, March 
9, 1978 at 2 30 PM in Scaife Hall 224. Spon
sored by the Social Science Department
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1 30 to 3:30 PM.
"Ratifying the ERAIf you're not part of
the solution, you're part of the problem" 
will be the topic of the March 14 program 
meeting of the Squirrel Hill chapter of the 
NOW. The meeting will take place at the 
Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition at 2012 Mur
ray Avenue at 8:00 PM
The Forbes Street Gallery will be presenting
a new show consisting of the works of 
Deborah Phillips, Iris Terens, and Jill Weiskopf. The show includes graphic designs, 
prints, and photography. The Forbes Street 
Gallery is open from 12 to 4 PM, Wednes
day and Thursday evenings from 7 to 9 
PM. The Gallery is located at 5200 Forbes 
Avenue, on the corner of Margaret Morrison 
Street.
Pamela Hockenberry, on the violin, will
perform works by Kriesler, Beethoven, and 
Franck on Wednesday, March 8 at 8p.m. 
in the Mellon Institute Recital Hall (ent
rance on Beliefield Ave.). Free and open to 
the public with a small reception following.
"The Drama Department will present John
Ford's Elizabethan masterpeice, '77s Pity 
She's A Whore, between March 16 and 
March 25 in the Kresge Theatre, CFA A 
limited number of complimentary tickets 
will be made available to students with a 
validated ID on Tuesday, March 14 between
10 AM and 5 PM at the box office in the 
Fine Arts Building."
HYPNOTISM SEMINAR SPONSORED BY
THE PEER HELP CENTER All interested 
in attending this presentation by Mr G., 
a professional hypnotist, can join us in the 
Peer Help Center at 8 PM, Tuesday March 
14. Come early so you can get a seat
Application for the position of manager of
Entropy will be available in the store be
ginning March 7
PEER HELP . . .a place to go. People to
talk to. We are student volunteers who care. 
No matter how big or small your concern, 
we are here to help in anyway we can, in 
-the office or over the phone Appointments 
are not necessary and ail of our services 
are free, with total confidentiality. Call 
621-9900 or 578-2904, or drop by 150-A 
Baker Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
There will be a meeting of all freshmen in
terested in majoring in Biological Seiendes 
on Monday afternoon March 13, in the So
cial Room at Mellon Institute (Third flor 
of Mellon Institute). Refreshments will [be 
served.
classified
The CMU chaplains are asking you to par
ticipate in a 24-hour fast as part of our 
World Hunger Awareness Week at CMU. 
The fast begins on Friday, March 17. at 
5:00 PM (skip Friday supper and Satur
day breakfast and lunch) and ends Satur
day, March 18 at 4:30 PM with a break-fast 
in the Wherrett Room. We ask that you ob
tain hour by hour sponsors who will finan
cially support your fast. All funds collected 
will go to OXFAM AMERICA, which is de
scribed in a related article in this week's 
TARTAN. All monies collected should be 
turned into: Rev. Jonathan Appleyard, 
CMU Campus Ministry Council, Skibo In
formation Desk, by Wednesday, March 22. 
Good luck! and God bless!
Praise the Lord! The entire campus com
munity is invited to join us 
in spirit filled praise and worship each 
Monday at the Oratory, located at 4040 
Bigelow Blvd. Charismatic prayer meeting 
is held from 8:15 to 9:45 PM followed by 
Fellowship and refreshments. Please join 
us. For further information please call 
681-3181 or 682-6482.
PREMEDS: Application packets for the 
1978 New Medical College Admission Test 
(New MCAT) have arrived and can be ob
tained from A. J. Streiff in the Chemistry 
Department Office, Doherty Hall 2114. 
The Spring postmark registration deadline 
is March 20. The Fall postmark registration 
deadline is September 1.
Episcopal Prayer Services will be held in 
Skibo 39 Mondays and Wednesdays at 
noon, and Thursdays at 1:00 PM, during 
spring semester. DURING LENT, the 
Thursday 1:00 PM service will be a 
Eucharist, with Jonathan Appleyard, 
Episcopal chaplain for CMU. Everyone is 
welcome! Call x2794 for information. 
Tau Beta Pi will be holding elections for 
next year's officers on Wednesday, March 8, 
at 4:30 PM in Skibo Room 11. All under
graduate members are urged to attend.
clubs
Every Tuesday, tne German conversation
table gathers in the Bakery-Deli from 
11:30-1:00. Look for the Austrian, Ger
man, and Swiss flags.
Concrete Canoe?!? Come to our weekly
work session to find out. Every Tuesday 
night we can be found in the basement of 
the Civil Engineering lab at 7:30. Stop by. 
The Society of Women Engineers will hold
elections for the 1978-79 school year on 
Sunday, March 12, at 7:00 PM, in Skibo, 
Room 11. Members are urged to attend and 
vote for new officers.
Modern Languages SAC PARTY, Wednes
day, March 8 at 3:30 in Skibo room 12. 
Refreshments will be served. All interested 
students and faculty are invited.
Pittsburgh Women's Rugby Club is starting
it's spring season. No experience needed. 
For information and practice times call 
665-1505.
scholarshipsawardsprizes
The National Poetry Press announces that
the closing date for the submission of 
manuscripts by college students is April 1. 
Any student attending either junior or sen
ior college is eligible to submit his verse. 
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred because of 
space limitations. Each poem must be typed 
or printed on a separate sheet and must 
bear the name and home address of the stu
dent and the college address as well. Manu
scripts should be sent to the Office of the 
Press. National Poetry Press, Box 21*8, 
Agoura, Ca. 91301.
FIND I YOURSELF. Newly available syn
thetic word test helps with the hardest 
job of all, finding yourself. Send $1.00 
for exam plus instructions to Freelance 
Associates, Box 13065, Pittsburgh, PA, 
15243. *
"Tumazos knows that the administration
will listen only to a unified student body. 
Sam Grego
TypingProofreadingSelectric. Symbols,
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed. 
734-1331. No answer. 761-8584.
Jean Becker supports John Tumazos for
President of Student Government because 
"he's a nice guy."
Want to spend the summer sailing the Carib
bean? The Pacific? Europe? Cruising other 
parts of the world aboard sailing or power 
yachts? Boat owners need crews! For free 
information send a 13-cent stamp to Skoko, 
Box 20855, Houston, Texas 77025.
'Light Hauling: Moving across town? or
across country? call 683-7369 or 231 - 
2766.
Disco Dance Classes(Group) 6 weeks,
18 hours, $1.60 Hour, Free dinner-shows. 
Holiday House. 241-2162.
"John is an industrious and motivated
individual whose intent is to invoke ac
tion." Ken Meinert
$50,000 in your mail in 2 years or less!
College student shows how. It's easy! Kim
ball, 2130-3A NW Fillmore, Corvallis, or 
97330.
"John knows more about the workings of
Student Government than anyone 
know." Lennie Matjasko
Original Wedding Bands, why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458 Diamonds.
"John's one of the hardest working sena
tors I've ever seengood presidential mat
erial." David Roussos
Roommate Wanted: Needed for March 10,
1978 to share a two bedroom Shadyside 
apartment. $150/month, including utilities. 
Call Pam at 441-3025.
"John is energetic as well as intelligent.
He actually cares about the students." 
Bobby Kennedy
Beautiful motel, % block from ocean. Near
Holiday Inn. Color TV, AM/FM stereo. 
Rooms: Minimum of 4 students $12.00 
per student per day. Efficiencies available. 
Minimum stay of one week. Write to: Ray, 
Allen, Manager, Fiesta Motel, 2915 Cortez, 
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33316. $50100 de
posit. Approved by American Express and 
VISA. Summer rates from May through 
October 1978$6.00 per day per student. 
Families $15.00 per day. Phone: (305) 
467-8782.
"I'm for John because he'll get something
done. He's seriously concerned about stu
dents." Janice Mauriello
WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English conver
sation. No experience, degree, or Japanese 
required. Send long, stamped, self-addressed 
envelope for details. JapanB42, 411 W. 
Center, Centralia, WA 98531.
John Lubon thought enough of Tumazos
to appoint him his assistant and personally 
endorse him.
JOBS. If you have at least two full years of
full time undergraduate or graduate study 
remaining, you can earn over $2000 dollars 
while seeking your degree. Additionally, 
you can qualify to become an officer in the 
US Army or National Guard. For details 
call: Tyrone Adderly, 578-2204, or visit 
the Department of Military Science, Mar
garet Morrison, 2nd Basement.
"You won't be wrong if you vote for John.
He knows his stuff." Fran Lorin
Child care available in my Squirrel Hill
home. Exoerienced, references. 421-8959.
"John Tumazos is a person of ambition, in
tegrity, and actiona go-getter.'' Jim Gladys
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential,
caring friend. Lifeline, 341-3322. Free 
pregnancy testing available.
TARTAN
Elections
March 13 at 5PM in Skibo, room 33
Changed from room 13
Positions open:
Edrtor-in-Chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor
Photography Editor 
Feature Editor 
Folio Editor
Candidates for Editor-in-Chief 
must be full-time CMU 
students who have woiked 
on the TARTAN for at least 
one semester. Candidates for section 
editors must be full-time students.

---------------------------------------------------

MARCH 7,1978/ VOLUME II/ ISSUE 6: 
DO-IT-YOURSELF
THIS IS YOUR COVER.

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANMarch 7, 1978
Print headline here.
TARTAN FOLIO
MARCH 7, 1978/ VOLUME II/ ISSUE 6: 
DO-IT-YOURSELF
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
COVER DESIGN:
Print 31.5% of your cover here.
BY WAY OF EXPLANATION...
Surprise! You probably all know that the FOLIO 
staff is a very hard-working and dedicated crew, 
but even the most dedicated crews deserve a vaca
tion once a year. So weve decided to let you do 
the work this week. We know you're out there, 
all you brilliant and creative people  not just the 
English and Design majors, but all you EEs and 
ROTCs with frustrated but active creative urges, 
too! So heres a FOLIO, just for youlets see 
what you can do with it. Write, draw, do it alone 
or with a friend, but do it. Submit your brainchild 
to the TARTAN and FOLIO will reprint the best 
one, or the best parts of several, in an upcoming 
issue. What have you got to lose?
Th!^HhMrsrpag^nhtMSTo^ourirQH^M

---------------------------------------------------

Marchr. 1978TARTANpage 15
Print Art B here.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16-TAR TAN-March 7, 1978
3rint Art C here.
SERIOUSLY, THOUGH...
You still have 'til noon Wednesday, March 8, 
to voice your opinion in the next FOLIO, Edi
torials that Never Appeared in Print. Just leave 
the typed copy on our office door.
If you missed that deadline but the Muse is 
still with you, why not try your hand at How I 
Enjoy my Spare Time at CMU. The deadline for 
typed copy and artwork is Monday, March 20, so 
youli have plenty of free time to write for 
FOLIO before then!
IV. b'J ') i I

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENTLovelace provides fantasy
A puppet review
Company: Lovelace Theatre Company 
Producer: Carnegie Institute
by Joan Livitski
The Lovelace Theatre Company speaks 
of itself as one big happy family, and after 
spending an afternoon with them, Id say 
theyre the most harmonious family Ive 
ever met. Their productions greatly ben
efit from their closeness, providing them 
with better synchronization of movements.
Lovelaces presently on going perform 
mances of Beauty and the Beast have got 
to be the most innovative and artistic in
terpretation of the age old fairy-tale. The 
basic storyline is the same, and yet the 
manner in whch its characterized is so 
unique, its like seeing something brand 
new.
The setting is transposed to Japan
Sitting at the very back of the theatre, 
I wasnt sure if some of the detail might be 
lost--it wasnt. Everything, including the 
smallest gesture, came across clearly, not
Her staff appears to be as versatile as she 
is. There are those who have been long 
time members of the Lovelace troupe and 
veteran puppeteers, as well as trainees and
which, with its historically cultural belief 
in the spirit world, is probably one of the 
most fitting places to center the story. The 
extensive use of haikus in the dialogue 
not only gives a more poetic flavor, but 
adds to the fantasy feeling as well.
Actors could very well perform the 
show using magic tricks and hidden fly 
wires, yet with marionettes so much more 
can be done due to the audience being 
more accepting of the impossible in the 
puppet media. These intricately suspended 
creatures are far more versatile than one 
might imagine, especially under the expert 
direction of Margo Lovelace and her crew 
of puppeteers.
The marionettes are Margos own orig
inal designs and are exquisitely construc
ted down to the most minute stitch. The 
Japanese Noh and kibuki theatre provide 
the background for the puppets design. 
This traditional dramatic mode uses masks 
for dramatic impact and interpretation. 
Generally considered an early (thereby 
primitive) form of drama, its use in Beauty 
and the Beast lends a sophisticated style 
and lifelike quality to the actors.
Its impossible to say that the show is 
wasted on children when one sees how
? he pv'k*d I' Marc of youngsters is kept 
spt'llb'ur<i B it it is possible to argue that 
n*o> udulu waste the show's talents for 
ihcn.^.vc uy not taking advantage ot its 
availability. As Ms. Lovelace pointed out, 
the U.S. is one of the few countries where 
puppetry is considered childrens enter
tainment and that is all.
But everything about the production is 
professional from the pre-production 
stages, to the handling of the marionettes, 
to the quick and unobtrusive scene changes.
because they were so obvious, but to the 
contrary, they were so fitting to each char
acter that it was as though the puppets 
were moving out of the sheer energy of the 
play, which, believe me, there was plenty 
of. If it hadnt been for an occassional 
reminder that strings were indeed attached 
and that the marionette portraying a spirit 
easily flew through the air, I could have 
been quite convinced that it was human 
beings on the stage.
But as interesting as Beauty and the 
Beast was, the fantasy world of the com
pany behind the production is even more 
inspiring. Margo Lovelace, a truly ener
getic person, couldnt even remember 
when her interest in puppets originated. 
She claims to have just wandered into the 
field, but I dont believe it. fts more like 
she was born into it. For her, puppetry is 
a constantly ongoing craft, a combination 
of a lifetime of learning, and Margo 
obviously utilizes every experience and tid
bit of knowledge to put together a show 
that is the best she and her crew can make 
it.
As for specific training, Margo herself 
has broad based training in many art and 
theatre fields that includes taking some 
classes at CMU. But she feels puppetry is 
the kind of thing where you need on-thejob training. Schools arent very useful. 
What you need is to feel the pressure of 
performance. She likens learning the 
basic craft techniques of puppetry to a 
musician running through his scales or a 
dancer doing bar work. It all takes prac
tice, constant doing.
interns whove had little or no direct ex
perience before joining Margo. The ad" 
vantage of this is in gaining a multi-tal
ented group with lots of varied knowledge 
to draw from. Some of the crew are ac
tors, some theatre technicians, some artists, 
but all are devoted.
Like any other theatre group, Lovelace 
requires committment for its ongoing job 
with many nights spent working on takehome projects. One of the women con
fessed to having been told at her interview: 
For the next two years you belong to us, 
body and soul. In being a small company, 
everyone has to do that much more, yet it 
provides flexibility and diversity in the jobs 
one is able to try their hand at. You get a 
chance to try everything, as one member 
put it.
For Margo it means having full control 
over the whole production. Responsibility 
for the hit or miss of a show rest com
pletely on her shoulders. If it works its
wonderful, yet she hastens to add, It 
gets scary. Not only the designer, Margo 
selects the scripts that will be used, often 
writing or adapting them herself.
The Lovelace Theatre works in varied
medias within puppetry, from hand and
rod puppets to masque and mime to mar
ionettes. During the Fall, the concen
tration is on their touring group which has 
a repertoire of two shows per season. 
Schools, clubs, private parties, all book 
heir act. Margos Puppet Proposition, an 
iward winning film, is available for distri
bution to familiarize people with this art.
Another service offered is their Teachei
Workshop which helps elementary school 
teachers incorporate puppets as a teaching 
nethod and encourages students to not 
only build their own puppets, but to devise 
scripts and organize performances. There 
was also mention of an adult geared pro
duction in the future. But it takes months 
of preparation time to pull a show together 
and there just doesnt seem to be that great 
an interest paid by the older generation. 
When asked if she saw any change in atti
tude coming, Margo replied, Ive been 
working 25 years for that goal. 1 dont 
know... Its difficult not to get discour
aged.
I for one hope she never gets down 
enough to think about giving up that 
struggle. Her contributions to the arts 
would be too hard to replace. As a cast 
member put it, Theres a lot to learn from 
puppets. And Margo has learned it all and 
then some. In the theatre profession 
theres the craft thats acquirable and that 
something more that you have or you 
dont, Margos underlings believe she has 
both in abundance. They see her as always 
full of ideas, having the ability of know
ing what will and will not work, and
having talent, genius.
According to Margo, one never has to 
grow up in puppetry. Maybe thats why 
she enjoys playing for children so much. 
Few people are interested in children, 
says Margo, but no one could accuse her of 
that. She wants to give beauty and hap
piness by providing fantasy and freedom. 
I think shes accomplished that.
Beauty and the Beast will run through 
March 19 with showings Saturday at 1:30 
and Sundays at 1:30 and 3:30 PM.
All performances are in the Museum 
of Art Theatre. For further information 
call 361-4835.
Three artists at gallery
by John Goodman
When old friends like Jill Weiskopf, 
Iris Terens. and Deborah Phillips get to
gether to have a show, you can be sure 
theres more than just art going into it. 
Take a look at the poster: three smiling 
faces that made it through four years of 
Carnegie-Mellon. living, working, and over
working together, now finally having the 
chance to show the campus community 
what their work is all about. Its a suitable 
occasion for celebration.
Since their freshman year, the three 
women have been pursuing personal direc
tions along similar paths. Jill, a Design 
major, has done the most work in package 
design and graphic imagery. Much of her 
work incorporates silkscreening.
Iris, who has a double major in both 
Design and Art. is also involved in silkscreening, although her images tend to be 
more illustrative than graphic. Some of her 
work is photo-silkscreened, based on the 
photographs she has taken during her 
travels in South America, Italy and Greece.
Deborah, an Art major, does more 
drawing. This past semester was spent in 
an exhaustive study of clothing and fabric 
draping. But she too, works in silkscreening 
and other forms of printmaking.
In fact, the three have been able to take 
advantage of each other's talents. Being 
such close friends, they find they can share 
a lot of ideas without the usual competi
tive paranoia about having ideas stolen.
The women seem to enjoy helping each 
other as much as they enjoy doing their 
own work.
But each has a style which is uniquely 
her own, and tonight it all goes on exhibit. 
Were really looking forward to this 
show, says Iris. In the four years weve 
been here weve become friends with a lot 
of people. But very few of them are really 
familiar with our artwork. We hope this 
show will give them all a chance to see 
another side of us.
The show opens tonight at 7 PM and 
will be on exhibit from 12 noon until 4:00 
for the rest of the week and the coming 
weekend. It is interesting to see the work 
assembled like this, as it makes it possible 
to view the individual distinctions as well 
as the shared influences. Its nice to know 
that three students cannot only survive 
four years together, but can also help each 
other to produce such good work.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18-TARTAN-March 7, 1978
Breer gives a charming talk
Design Review
Speaker: Robert Breer
Sponsor: CMU Design Department
by Fyrth Reckseit
With vieor, spirit, and much activity, 
animator Robert Breer provided delight
ful and humorous entertainment at the 
Design Issues Lecture, Wednesday evening 
March 1.
Although always fascinated by moving 
objects, Robert Breer as a young artist 
studied painting. After graduating from 
Stanford University in 1949, he left the 
United States for Paris, his home for ten 
years. There he exhibited at the Galerie 
Denise Rene and his artistic influences, 
developed from the Bauhaus School, were 
hard-edged and similar to the work of 
Mondrian.
Robert Breer is not one to deny in
stinct, therefore it came as no surprise 
when he found himself in a state of artistic 
tension between still and kinetic art. 
Wanting to make his still art move, Robert 
Breer explored the principles of early ani
mation by creating flip-books of his work. 
He went even further so that by 1952 he 
was making films. Soon after his commit
ment to kinetic art he returned to the 
United States.
Mr. Breer wanted to continue to reach 
the public through galleries and not only 
through cinema and needed an outrageous
means to do this. It was then the mid"60s 
and Robert Breer introduced his slowmoving kinetic sculpture, which he calls 
floats. These objects gained him world
wide recognition and were used as part of 
the exterior design for the Pepsi Cola 
Pavillion at Expo 70 in Japan.
Before the lecture, the CMU audience 
saw two little spots or creeping, crawling 
fiberglass objects move slowly across the 
front of the lecture hall. Then Robert 
Breer walked on, dressed quite comfort
ably, and in a friendly, but incidental man
ner, introduced these floats, These are 
my pets and I just couldnt imagine going 
anywhere without them.
From that moment on he may have 
charmed, enlightened or startled, but cer
tainly he captured the audience. Using his 
explosive and active personality and art, he 
chronologically showed slides of his still 
work and kinetic sculptures. Later he 
screened some of his films such as; Gulls 
and Buoys, Fuji and Rubber Cement. The 
audience was bombarded by images, alter
nating between nonsequential and meta
morphosis. Breers tremendous sense of 
rythm was obvious if somewhat con
fusing.
Some of us in the audience came to the 
lecture with preconceived notions; we 
would see stereotype cartoon films with 
persistant plots. 1 was a bit shaken by the 
seeming lack or purpose. However, pres
sure to write this review made me want to 
understand what the work of this vibrant 
eccentric man was all about. I turned to
TGIF had a night to remember
by David C. Lucas
lhe Activities Boards TGIF com
mittee and Food Service joined forces 
Friday night and treated the campus 
community to A Night Out.
The evenings entertainment began with 
showings of the film classic Gone With the 
Wind. For those of you unfortunate 
enough to have missed it, this film is a 
perfect blend of sappy romance, snappy 
dialogue, stirring adventure, blazing tech' 
nicolor and high camp.
Following the film, the throngs entirely 
filled the Tartan Grill, where the attrac
tions were cut-rate Tartan delicacies and 
live entertainment. The opening act was 
the jazz quartet Gibraltar. The group is 
composed of Harry Cardillo (electric 
piano), Dave Laroca (acoustic bass) , Lance 
Parker (sax), and John Eskridge 
(percussion). Gibraltars jazz was quite 
contemporary, yet it showed the influence 
of jazz greats such as Miles Davisr Ramsey 
Lewis and Les McCann.
The set began with Here's That Rainy 
Day, a tasteful number punctuated with 
thunderous percussion. M*A *S*H fol
lowed. This tune was given semi-rock n 
roll and Latin treatments in addition to 
having been rendered in traditional jazz 
tempos.
Many groups have their own versions 
of the theme from Close Encounters oj 
theQ Third Kind and Gibraltar is no excep
tion. Their We Are Not Alone transferred 
the five-note theme to drums and bass. 
Eskridge contributed some showy excesses 
of coloratura drum-work to the tune. 
Blue People was a timeless piece, show
casing each of the separate insturments^ A 
little scat-singing added an extra dimen
sion. Gibraltars light-hearted Carribbean 
Carnival number, St. Thomas finished the
set.
Nat Rich, who graduated from CMUs 
Drama Department last year, contributed 
the mime portion of the show. For several 
years, Nat has been a staple in this Uni
versitys entertainment scene. This evening 
he performed the Rich classics Operating 
Room, Ice Cream, and Singles Bar0 A 
more recent addition to his act was The 
Beginning in which he portrays God with 
his back to the audience, and Adam 
facing it. The best skits were Tight-Rope 
Walker which allowed Rich to display his 
mastery of technique and the uproariously 
funny Knife Thrower. He reacted well to 
the complications of an untidy stage and 
unruly audience by incorporating those 
distractions into his act.
John Brunelle, the magician,didnt fare 
quite so well, however. He managed to 
jlioose an assortment of amazingly unjooperative assistants from the audience. 
A hypnotized subject refused to keep her 
eyes closed, a member of Gibraltar totally 
destroyed one stunt, a lovely female as
sistant only knew smatterings of English 
and another helper captured the best 
gags. The magicians humorous adlibbing 
made the performance enjoyable none
theless.
The fact that Brunelle has been doing 
the same tricks for the past three or four 
visits didnt help either. These factors 
robbed the act of the surprise element 
which is a requirement in magic acts. In 
any case, Brunelle has to be admired for 
his bravery.
The TGIF committee would like to 
extend the success of its events into the 
future. Unfortunately, the committee, 
although dedicated, has been hindered 
by its small size. Therefore, present 
members are encouraging students to 
join and take part in programming events 
which you and the campus will enjoy. 
For more information, leave your name 
and number at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
Webster's to learn that to animate means 
to give spirit, life or support, to give vig
or and zest and to make a design in such a 
way that apparent, spontaneous and life
like movement is affected. Clearly then, 
Robert Breer lives his art. Probably this is 
why he was able to make such a unique 
contribution to cinema by liberating trad:tional cartoon animation. Today, Mr.
Breer continues to make independent films 
and also teaches Animation at the Cooper 
Union School of Art.
The Department of Design is looking 
forward to an exciting evening, March 15 
at 8:00 PM in Science Hall 7500. Chip 
Lord from the architectural firm Ant 
Farm in San Francisco, will be our guest. 
This lecture is open to the public.
Ballet set for Heinz
By D. Minor
Pennsylvania Ballet, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council in performance 
at Heinz Hall March 7 ana 8, will present, 
each night, the Pittsburgh premiere of 
Signatures, a new work created for the 
company by the Ballets Artistic Director 
Benjamin Harkarvy, with a score composed 
by Music Director, Maurice Kaplow. The 
program on the 7th will also feature 
Jerome Robbins Interplay and
who conducts the Ballet orchestra, also 
created the music for specific artists. Each 
section of the score bears the name of a 
dancer.
Beethovens Grosse Fugue was the or
iginal inspiration for Hans van Manens 
critically acclaimed ballet. The ballet has 
no story, but the choreographed relation
ship between its four men and four women 
reflects and reacts to the tension, power 
and somber majesty of the music that 
Stravinsky once called the most beautiful
Balanchines Symphony in C. On the 8th, 
the program will include Hans van Manens 
Grosse Fugue and Balanchines Diverts 
mento No. 15.
I have made Signatures, a work about 
dance and dancers, with several thoughts 
in mind, said Mr. Harkarvy. It has been 
choreographed to introduce each dancer 
to the public in a role specifically designed 
for him or her, revealing not only the 
technical excellence and physical gifts 
of our dancers but also their versatility 
and emotional range. Maurice Kaplow,
score in music literature.
Symphony in C is considered one of 
George Balanchines masterpieces. Now 
a part of the international repertoire of 
classical dance, the ballet is set to music by 
Bizet. Clive Barnes said recently in The 
New York Times The company dances 
Balanchine with a cool hard-edged ele
gance ... Symphony in C is one of the 
most popular Balanchine works in Penn
sylvania Ballets repertoire.
For ticket information call Heinz Hall 
(412) 281-5000.
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES
by Elaine Smith
If you think you have got problems, be 
sure to check out DH2210 for this Thurs
day's Film Arts movie. Mr. Smith - of the 
St. Louis Smiths - announces that he must 
find a better job. that the family must 
move to New York. Mr. Smith's Daughters, 
Judy Garland and Margaret O'Brien, are 
crushed. Who in their right mind wants to 
live in St. Louis? The tension mounts! Will 
Mr. Smith find a better job? Do the Smiths 
move to New York? Can Margaret O'Brien 
really have herself a merry little Christmas?
Meet Me in St. Louis stands out as the
first musical that believably mixes song, 
dance, and story. Director Vincente Min
nelli chronicles the life of this turn-of-thecentury family as if he were flipping 
through their family albums. The seasons 
change with a dusty nostalgia that unites us 
to remember trolley cars, ferris wheels, and 
dresses with bustles. Sure, it's sentimental, 
but even electrical engineers will find this 
one hard to resist.
Meet Me in St. Louis is a gem that can make you forget that calculus quiz and
that linear circuits exam. James Agee la
beled it best as A musical that even the
deaf should enjoy.

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978TARTANpage 19
"Coma" expresses real fears
A film review 
Film: Coma
Director: Michael Crichton
by Russ Militello
? Realism and reality are normally two 
different concepts, but in Michael Crich
tons new movie Coma, only a fine line sep
arates them. Dealing with a large Boston 
hospital, the film shows what could happen 
should organ transplants become common 
medical practice--the creation of a black 
market in human organs.
Crichton, a graduate of Harvard Medical
I School, has other film credits including 
The Andromeda Strain, The Terminal Man, 
and Westworld. Again he shows his skill at 
taking real life and giving it science fiction
like qualities, when, in fact, the situations 
are capable of happening in the near fu
ture. It is this slight distinction between re
ality and fiction that keeps one involved in 
the action of the movie, while at the same
, time keeps us wondering if we will ever 
consent to have any operation performed 
with an anaesthetic without losing our liver 
and kidneys in the process. Most people 
have a natural fear of doctors and hospitals 
and, as in Jaws, these fears are fully ex
ploited.
From the first minute of the movie, one 
senses that something is amiss. People are 
lapsing into comas without explanation. 
Young people who enter the hospital for 
routine procedures mysteriously become 
victims of this malady. Although this 
may appear strange to most people, the 
doctors and staff at Boston Memorial seem 
unconcerned. Only Dr.. Susan Wheeler 
(Genevieve Bujold) feels compelled to pur
sue the issue.
The film follows Dr. Wheeler through 
her investigation of the cases, and the au
dience becomes as involved and anxious as 
she is to see the case solved. Coma becomes 
a suspense thriller with Bujold as the detec
tive. Every obstacle that she encounters is 
felt by the audience. The tension becomes 
so overpowering that audience members 
were talking to the characters on the 
screen. This involvement is rare in a motion 
picture and, not since Hitchcock has this 
manipulation been handled so masterfully.
This is not a pretty movie. It's frighten
ing and grotesque. Dead bodies hang in the 
hospital like salamis in a delicatessen, or
gans are sliced up like lunch meat, and 
bloody operations are plentiful. But, these 
are standard hospital procedures and serve 
only to heighten the reality and reinforce 
peoples natural fears of doctors and hos
pitals. Doing this serves to create the at
mosphere and set the pace for things to 
come.
Coma is basically a script movie. It de
pends heavily on plot to keep your 
interest. This type of film is becoming 
popular with the recent releases of Star 
Wars and Close Encounters. Oppositely, 
movies such as Equus and Turning Point 
are character movies, where the 
characterizations are extremely well 
defined and the performances are the crux 
of the movie. So, in this manner, the 
performances in Coma are above average, 
but not superior. It has a strong 
cast (Bujold, Michael Douglas, Richard 
Widmark, and Elizabeth Ashley), but none 
gave the performance that each is capable 
of giving. Again, this is due to the domi
nance of story over characterization, and 
the actors cant be held at fault.
From a technical aspect, the movie is 
outstanding. Crichton complements the 
tension that he created with the story with 
intricate first-person photography that ab
sorbs the audience into the plot and the 
characters. Few directors have mastered 
this talent (Robert Altman is one) at such 
an early age. Crichton shows great promise 
for the future.
Music is used sparingly. The movie relies 
principally on the strong visual imagery to 
create the desired effect. However, when it 
is used, it brings the tension to a nearly un
bearable peak. Fortunately, the tension is 
broken suddenly or else the entire audiDr. Susan Wheeler ( Genevieve Bujold) seeks clues to a conspiracy among coma 
patients at an experimental lab in MGM's Comao
ence, including myself, would have suf
fered multiple strokes. Once again this fur
ther underscores Crichtons talent as a di
rector. "
All the praise does not belong entirely 
to the director, for without the story by 
Dr. Robin Cook (also a Harvard Medical 
School graduate), there would be no mo
vie. Coma is effective due to all the efforts 
involved in the production. Everything 
comes together to produce an entertaining, 
thought provoking film that, although it 
will not be regarded as a classic in twenty 
years, is strikingly different and realistic 
with real people, and that is a pleasant di
version this year.
Taylor's Company shines
A Dance Review
Company: The Paul Taylor Dance Co. 
Producer: Pittsburgh Dance Council
by Knox Uguccioni
The Paul Taylor Dance Company, now 
in its 21st year, is still one of the most 
exciting modern dance companies in Amer 
ica. Their recent performance in Pitts 
burgh included both old and new works 
all of which were as interesting and timely 
as when they were first performed.
The earliest work was 3 Epitaphs which 
was first performed in 1956. Ft is set to a 
strangely haunting folk music which is 
one of the ancestors of jazz. The dancers 
were forms, covered from head to foot in 
dark, brownish costumes, expressing a 
faceless anonymity but they still retained 
somewhat human characteristics. The 
dullness of the costumes, contrasted with 
the sparkles .of light from mirrors attached 
to their hand created an air of fun and 
gaiety. One was reminded of a minstrel 
show and the unidentifiable bodies became 
figures with remarkably clear character
istics. 1 heir skipping, walking, and waving 
arm movements, which are basic move
ments in modern dance, were carefully 
handled to present a lively, humorous 
dance.
Aureole was performed eight years 
later and is a careful blend of classical sim
plicity and purity with modern dance. It 
was light, graceful and flowing, easily fol
lowing and interpreting the music by 
Handel. Monica Morris and Elie Chaib 
were extraordinary, particularly in their 
pas de deux. Each was technically excel
lent and full of expression, developing and 
explaining their relationship as dancers and 
friends and lovers. They revealed the high
lights and shadows, the obvious and the 
implied, to give a depth and complexity to 
the dance. Carolyn Adams was excellent 
as well. A strong, lithe^dancer, she has the 
ability to command due to her exquisite 
and dynamic stage presence.
The most unusual dance was Polaris, 
abstract work in two parts. The second 
part was the same as the first with the 
exception of the cast, music and lighting. 
It was a very abstract work, an exploration 
of motion both within and around the
ATTENTION SCIENCE 
AND ENGINEERING 
MAJORS!
The Air lince has opemnijN (or vouny moti and iwimt'n maioriny in 
sek\ted science and enyineermy feids l.ike Aeronautical. Theh >--p.ice 
General and f.k'Ctrieal Knymeenny Majlvmatit'. AiArlnc ami Coni 
puter Technoloqv
l o lielp prepari' (or me of these. Air Konv KOTC offer* hvo and 
finir vear proyrams of studv vvhkh tvill detrai. ime of vmi -olk*yc
COSts
After completimi of th Al KOTC requtremenl and itpon vour yrad 
iiation. vou ll he l'ommisMoned an offuer in th Air I ori e Tinn comes 
refK>nMhililv. esperienze in vour 'p*i ultv wtlh *ome of th lv>t peo 
pi*' and faciline^ in th worid. and a mi^-ion uith .1 puri* e Votili jet 
evellent -.tartiny salarv wdkal and cktit.il -.re. . dai.- of paul va 
canon Ivymniny vour fir<t vear. and more
Look mto th Air Iuree KOTC program rtyhl <mav Sv 1el1.it  in it 
for vi hi See hou vou can serve vour countrv in return Notili tv <|Uit 
voti put vour laaior1 lo work un a i>h tluit rcallv coupt
( all *2M>:W7 or see us in K noni
435. Cathedral of Learning
TARN
Gateway to o great way of life.
space of a large cube defined by metal 
rods. Polaris I was relatively fluid and 
graceful, a quiet and unhurried dance with 
soft, flattering lighting. Polaris II was the 
opposite: harsher, stronger and more
forceful. There was a distinct sense of 
urgency which was particularly obvious in 
the music and the dancers response. Al
though the steps were exactly the same for 
both parts, the changes in phrasing and 
timing produced two works which were 
totally opposite in their mood and mean
ing. In the second part the dancers seemed 
to be dancing for a reason, from an inner 
drive to reach some personal goal, while in 
the first part the dancers simply danced for 
the sake of art. While both parts used the 
regulating geometry of the cube on the 
floor, the third dimension was not fully 
explored and it seems that a square would 
have worked as well as the cube.
The last dancc was a bizarre conglomer
ation of tuxedos, gowns, and strange mir
rored headpieces. It was entitled Cloven Kingdom and was expressive of Spinozas 
thought that man is a social animal. 
The dance was a highly sophisticated exam 
ination of the social relationships between 
men and women within the context of a 
highly stylized ball Those relationships 
seemed fake and contrived and the entire 
experience showed a lack of inner sub
stance. Dancers were coolly aloof, and the 
extensive use of oddly shaped mirrors 
emphasized the hollowness, producing flat 
reflections. And the last movement was 
even more unreal because the dancers 
obliterated their faces and wore mirrors 
around their eyes. Everyone was a reflec
tion of the others, completely faceless 
bodies all dancing the same stylized dance.
The dances of Paul Taylor are diverse as 
well as being sensitive investigations of the 
qualities and limits of dance. His dancers 
are very talented and experienced in clas
sical ballet so they can bring a wide range 
of dance together into a unique synthe
sized whole. This company is one of the 
oldest and probably the best modern dance 
companies in the world. And with the 
guiding genius of Mr. Taylor, they are 
sure to be the most exciting for a long 
time to come.

---------------------------------------------------

page 20-TAR TAN-March 7, 1978
"Betsy" handles sex two ways
A Film Review 
Film: The Betsy 
Director: Daniel Petrie
by Hemerle Rhodes
There may be several things about The 
Betsy that you have to stretch your imag
ination over, but make-believe has tradi
tionally been a characteristic, if not the 
whole, of what the film industry is all 
about. Whats hard to swallow is hearing 
Sir Laurence Olivier ( Loren Hardeman, 
also known as Number 1) ask, You think 
I was an old man just jerkin off?
Ive long ago resigned myself to the 
realization that the Hollywood star is 
a thing of a by-gone era. Of course we still 
have our legends, mostly tragic and dead: 
Marilyn Monroe, James Dean, Judy 
Garland, and Elvis Presley, to name a few. 
But all the star-lights havent gone out.
Granted, theres nothing more pitiful 
than watching the demise of an idol, but 
Mr. Olivier, even in playing a man of 86, is 
anything but decaying. Its hard enough to 
picture him as old even when his white 
head fills the screen in technicolor, but to 
think of him as jerkin off, is beyond my 
comprehension.
We see a matured corporate giant step
ping down to give his son, then grandson, 
charge of the family company, Bethlehem 
Motors. But he never steps out of the 
executive picture, his eminent presence
is always felt. Number 1 displays the in
satiable taste for success and quest for 
power that his great-granddaughter, Betsy 
remarks as typifying characteristics of all 
Hardemans, at least the males.
The surface storyline consists of Loren 
Fs obsession with building the socially 
popular and economically fuel consuming 
car, which he names after his great-grand
daughter. The subliminal plot, paralleling
the industrial struggle of the Bethlehem 
Motors Corporation and the family powerplays of the Hardemans, is actually the 
more interesting, but also the lesser deve
loped.
tion sways more and more to sheer protit 
motivation with stocks taking the place of 
the products as the source of pride. By the 
time we reach Loren III, (Robert Duvall), 
we see cars nearly phased out.
The producer seemed content to plaster 
Harold Robbins name on the marquee,add 
some unneccessary sex scenes, and let that 
carry the show. Enough good plotline 
comes through though to make me believe 
the director, Daniel Petrie, had some hopes
of stressing and developing it.
All the Hardeman men are success 
oriented. Their battles for power pit them 
against everyone including each other. The 
uniqueness comes in each generations 
mode of displaying its claim to accomplish
ment. Number 1 depicts the old way by 
showing an affection for the way things 
started out with building cars, developing 
standards of quality and cultivating pride 
in workmanship. Each proceeding generaThe Hardemans turn to sure things in 
their personal relationships as well. When 
a marriage goes bad a lover is taken, some
time even if its a daughter-in-law. The only 
better kept secret than the building of the 
Betsy, is whos sleeping with whom. Not all 
the sex is superfluous, much is integral to 
the plot, showing the extremes men will 
go to in order to be in power positions.
I didnt quite care for the chauvinistic 
attitude Robbins displays towards women, 
and yet it supports the idea that the men 
have cut-throat attitudes in all aspects of 
their lives. My objections to the use of sex 
in the film are reserved for the gaudy, 
sex-just-for-sex-sake scenes that are unjusti
fied as far as the story goes.
Tommy Lee Jones playing Angelo, the 
womanizer-race car driver, has been likened 
to Charles Bronson, Montgomery Clift 
and Marlon Brando, but I think he should 
take Number ls advice from the film, 
better learn fast! in regards to picking 
up acting techniques. One article said he 
was the whole show, yet Id give The 
Betsy far more credit than that. As far as 
being a sex-symbol goes, the wheel chair 
confined Olivier stirred me more than the 
unclad muscles of Mr. Jones, no matter 
how much they rippled.
But The Betsy does deserve admiration 
in showing that sexually shocking topics 
can be handled with modesty and dignity. 
On the day of his sons wedding, Loren I 
is caught in the process of making love to 
a chamber-maid, by his daughter-in-law, 
(Katherine Ross). Later when she moves in 
with her father-in-law because of a gay 
husband, showing her turned down, empty 
bed subtly gives us and her son a clear in
dication where she is without resorting to 
filling the screen with naked bodies.
One significant commentary made by 
The Betsy deals with the affluent class of 
American society. We see that the socially 
beautiful people dont always lead such 
pretty lives. Angelos obsession with 
winning at the sake of all else shows a 
ruthlessness that provokes Loren III to 
comment, You have the makings of a 
good Hardeman, God bless you. Lady 
Ayres,(Lesley-Anne Down), is the stereo
typical social climber/snob that depicts 
closed mindedness.One further aspect that truly deserves 
recognition is the effective use of setting 
and costumeso Not only is each reflective 
of its time period, but it denotes a sense 
of affluence, power and success, all the 
things that are the Hardemans.
A
5

lecture four tuesday, march 7
2 POETS: CONTEMPORARY POETRY IN AMERICA
Gerald Costanzo Moderator English Department CMU 
Author of In the Aviary 
Paula Rankm - Poet Tennessee
Author ol By the Wreckmaster s Cottage 
Donald Hall Poet. New Hanipshire
Author of The Alligator Bride and The Town of HiM
lecture five Wednesday, march 8
CONTEMPORARY ART IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
REJUVENATION OR DECLINE?
Philo Pitcher Kmgpitcher Art Gallery 
Jim Westerberg Glass Advertising PPG Industries 
Donald Miller Art Critic Pittsburgh Post Giuette 
Henry Koernef Pittsburgh Artist
David Wilkins Associate Protest <>? Fun* Arts University of Pittsburgh
lecture six____________________thursday. march 9
INTERACTIONS BETWEEN ART AND SCIENCE
Robert Feller Director of Ad and Materials Conservation Center CMIR 
Ruth Johnston-Feller Consultant on Color Science 
James Swauger Senior Scientist Carnegie Museum

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978-TARTAN-page 21
Princess Grace evades questions
An Interview
Person: Princess Grace of Monaco 
Sponsor: International Poetry Forum
by Joan Livitski
Her Serene Highness Princess Grace of 
Monaco has been many things to many 
people over the years. Once having decided 
on a career as an actress, she debuted at 
the Bucks County Playhouse in New Hope, 
Pa. She soon won a place as entertainer in 
the minds of many, including Alfred Hitch
cock.
She remained basically a theatrical ac
tress, although she did do some television, 
until the early 50s when she started her 
motion picture career. The then Grace Kel
ly became a movie star, capturing every 
film-goers heart with her Academy Award 
winning performance in Country Girl.
Two years later she met and married 
Prince Rainier III of Monaco, becoming 
wife, royalty, and (to an American public 
brought up on happily-ever-after stories) 
a living fairy-tale.
She went on to motherhood and social 
arranging as part of her life in Monaco. 
Establishing the International Arts Festi
val, Princess Grace had hopes of making 
her adopted homeland a cultural center of 
the world.
Fairly recently she has once again be
come closely affiliated with the acting pro
fession. Princess Grace has the distinction 
of being the first woman on the Board of
Directors of 20th Century Fox Film Cor
poration and has returned to the stage for 
the first time in 26 years in their program, 
Birds, Beasts, and Flowers which had its 
debut performance at the Carnegie Music 
Hall. But along with being a return, it was a 
new venture too. Poetry readings are a rel
atively new media to Her Highness, even 
though poetry itself is not.
But as many things as Princess Grace has 
been, is and may yet become, she struck 
me as a political figure first and foremost 
at her recent press conference. Her re
sponses tended to be evasive, at least noncommital. Like any incumbent figurehead, 
her needs were not to sway or please any
one or any group but rather not to antag
onize.
My complaint is that little if any infor
mation was gained from this kind of atti
tude. Remarks tended to be general and all 
inclusive or off the track, not coming to
grips with what was being asked at all. As I 
said, it was just like talking to a politician.
I realize her position is governmental; 
shes part of a ruling class. Yet deep down, 
being the star-struck movie-goer I am, I 
wanted some revelation, less reserve, more 
candidness and some sign of exuberance.
I feel certain shes an intelligent woman, 
and yet whenever a reporter proposed a 
question that could only be answered by 
a thought out and elaborate response, 
Princess Grace hedged and passed it on 
to Richard Pasco, her co-reader, or Mr. 
Carroll, the programs director.
MIXOLOGY COURSE
To Teach You Everything You Want to Know 
About Bartending
A member of the Royal Shakespeare 
Company, Mr. Pasco is a renowned actor 
in his own right. He may not be royalty, 
but he presents a kingly figure. His 
response to the difference between doing 
poetry readings and play performances, 
after Her Highness had managed only an 
Oh, I dont know, was beautifully 
detailed yet fully comprehensible.
Princess Grace refused to disclose what 
role in The Turning Point she had been 
offered, saying Oh, thats immaterial.* 
When asked if she missed having the oppor
tunity to have further developed her craft, 
her comment was: I dont have regrets 
because I dont look back. I think everyone 
can find regrets if they look for them. 
And as to whether or not she saw the 
movie industry as cut-throat, Princess 
Grace continued with the questioning af
ter no more of an observation than saying 
that it was different.
She even tried to pass off an inquiry 
about her beauty secrets to Pasco by asking 
him a question of her own. Finally she re
lented by confiding that staying healthy 
was a key factor.
When it came to divulging opinions 
Princess Grace was closed-lipped. In regards 
to ERA and Womens Rights, she didnt 
feel familiar enough to comment. Specula
tion on likely recipients of Oscars in the 
coming award ceremony was dropped since 
she voted and was sworn to secrecy. Im 
not even sure what she thought about Pitts
burgh except that the lights looked pretty 
driving in from the aiport.
In fact, Im not very clear on her feel
ings on much of anything. She has no fa
vorite role, no particular character/person
age that she would have liked to portray, 
nor does she want to think about snmennp
playing her in a life story.
The only area I felt she went beyond 
the general formalities was in her views 
concerning the family, both hers as well as 
in terms of as a social unit. According to 
Her Highness, her family is supportive of 
her return to the theatre, yet none were
present for her debut. Theyre all in Eu
rope, said the Princess about her family, 
vet Dr. Hazo, who was resposible for 
bringing the Princess to Pittsburgh, had 
been quoted as saying, Some members of 
her family will be present (for the read
ing.)
Defending her husband as being a lib
erated male, Princess Grace, after confirm
ing that Prince Rainier had asked her to 
give up acting once they were married, re
marked that it would be impossible to do 
both. The theatre and being a princess are 
both full time careers, according to Her 
Highness, and My first obligations are in 
Monaco. Everything depends on that.
On the topic of children, she felt, We
re putting children in school too early. 
Youngsters today dont have any recollec
tion of not being in a classroom, and I 
think this is wrong. But when it came to 
answering questions on her own children, 
the topic was quickly changed.
Before leaving our fair city, the Princess 
took on one more role. The title of Doctor 
of Humane Letters was bestowed in the 
form of an honorary degree from 
Dusquesne University.
But even with her seemingly political 
ways, Her Serene Highness Princess Grace 
must still have a little of the theatrical 
blood in her veins. She was just a trifle too 
aware of her appearance and where every 
photographer and T.V. camera was posi
tioned for me to really believe otherwise.

---------------------------------------------------

GET IT EARLY ON
88.3FM
cP>
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair.
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy, counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Bkw)10.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurc. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25.00
No
Appointments
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiuiiHiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiimiiF
A Best Seller ... the television event of 1977 ... and a celebrated movie.
2 SHOWINGS EACH DAY: 11:30 & 12:30
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
FREE - Bring your lunch and a friend.
Wednesday. March 8 
Wherrett Room
Chapter 8  CHICKEN GEORGE
Kizzy in 1824 is a proud woman in her mid-thirties, and her son George is 
a promising game cockera special favorite of their debauched owner, 
Tom Moore. Kizzy falls in love with a flamboyant driver from another 
plantation. She persuades him to take her to the Reynolds plantation. At 
Kunta s grave she renews her vow to live in a Mandinka tradition. 
George is elated to become Moore s principal cock trainer, and looks for
ward to buying his freedom and that of Tildy, the girl he intends to marry.
Thursday. March 9  Chapter 9  CHICKEN GEORGE (Con't.) 
Wherrett Room
Aristocratic Squire James offers to buy Chicken George (so-called 
because of his prowess as a trainer of fighting cocks), together with his 
wife Tildy and sons, promising the family freedom after five years of ser
vice. In George s ensuing rage when Moore flatly refuses, Kizzy con
fesses that Moore is George's natural father. At the next cock com
petition, Moore wagers heavily and loses. George is sent to England as a 
trainer in lieu of payment of Moore s debt. Soon after George s depar
ture, Moore sells Tildy and the children despite his promise to George to 
keep the family together.
Monday, March 13  Chapter 10  THE WAR 
Ballroom
Chicken George, now a free man, returns to his familyTildy and three 
grown sons; blacksmith Tom, Lewis and Virgil. The red-neck Brent 
brothers, Evan and Jemmy, sneeringly remind him that a freed slave may 
not remain in the state more than sixty days. George leaves, promising 
to return with enough money to free them all. The family befriends a 
young white couple. Ol' George Johnson and Martha, who have lost their 
small farm to the ravages of the Civil War. Tom agrees to help an 
exhausted Jemmy desert the sinking Confederacy. But when Tom 
catches Jemmy trying to rape his wife, he strangles Jemmy and together 
they bury the body.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
The Alternative Coffee House: Rose
mary Horshman, folk musician, playing old 
and new folk music on Friday night, March 
10, 1978, at 8:30 PM. The Alterna
tive is located in the Lutheran University 
Center, Oakland, across from Scaife Art 
Museum, and is open, with live entertain
ment, each Friday night from 8 PM through 
! 12 M. For information call 682-6886.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee is 
looking forward to an evening of mellow 
music with songsmith James Durst, out of 
Chicago, and CMU drama student, Anita 
Hollander, on Saturday, March 11 at 9:30 
PM in Skibo Wherrett Room. We hope to 
see you there.
The Chatham College Choir with Villanova 
Singers will hold a concert on Saturday, 
March 11 at 8 PM in the Chapel. The event 
is open, free of charqe to the public.
The Duquesne University Union Program 
Board will sponsor a coffeehouse on March 
13 featuring folk singer Nina Kahle. Sche
duled for 8 PM in the Duquesne Union 
Ballroom, the coffeehouse is open to the 
public, and refreshments will be served. 
Admission is $1. For more information 
call 434-6638.
CINEMA
Robin Williams' film, This Is Paris, will be 
screened March 6 through 9 during the 
Carnegie Institutes Travel Film Series.
Summer In The City will be shown in the 
Museum of Art Theater at 8 PM on Wed
nesday, March 8. Cost is $1.00.,
AB will present Meet Me In St. Louis Thurs
day, March 9 at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM. The 
movie will be shown in DH 2210 and is 
75 cents with ID/ $1.00 without.
AB will show The Sword In the Stone 
Friday, March 10 at 6, 8, 10 and 12 mid
night. The film will be in DH 2210 and is 
$1.00 with ID/ & 1.25 without.
On Friday, March 10, Pygmalion will be 
presented in the Museum of Art Theater at 
1:00 PM. Cost is $1.00.
SDC will present Sparkle on Saturday, 
March 11 at 6,8:30 and 11 PM in DH2210. 
The film is free to the campus community.
THEATRE
On Wednesday, March 8 at 8:00 PM, the 
Point Park College Theatre Companys 
production of A Midsummer Night's Dream 
begins its run at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Theatre Center. Directed by Don Wads
worth and performed by the students of 
the Department of Performing Arts of 
Point Park College, it will run nightly, Wed
nesdays thru Sundays thru March 26. For 
further information, call 621-4445.
The Drama Department of Chatham will 
perform monologs from three plays: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Art Dead, If Youre 
Glad I'll Be Frank and One Person, on Fri
day, March 10 at 8:30 PM in the Eddy 
Theatre. The performance is open, free of 
charge.
Camelot Productions will present the Pitts
burgh premiere of the musical Sugar, open
ing Friday, Feb. 24 at the Plaza Theatre, 
Bloomfield.
Performances will be held Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sundays at 7:30 
PM, Feb. 24-Mar. 19 at the Plaza Theatre, 
4765 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield. Ticket 
information may be obtained by calling 
Jamelot Productions at 683-7770.
Harlan County, U.S.A. will be shown Tues
day, March 14 at 8 PM in the Kresge Thea
tre, Carlow College. The film is sponsored 
by the Womens Studies Program and is 
free and open to the public.
Duquesne University Union will present 
Neil Simons The Star-Spangled Girl in 
dinner theatre, March 15.
Sponsored by the Union Program Board, 
the presentation will be held in the Rath
skeller on the first floor of the Union. 
Seating will be from 6:30 to 7:30 PM, and 
the performance will be at 8:15 PM. Ad
mission will be by reservation only. Cost is 
$3.95 per person with a University I.D., 
or $4.95 per person without I.D.
Individuals may make reservations by 
calling Maura Krushinski, weekdays from 
1-5 PM, at 434-6638, or by stopping by 
the Union Staff Office, third floor, Du
quesne Union.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery on the first floor of 
the College of Fine Arts Building will have 
an exhibition of architectural projects by 
Cole, Schwab, Sullivan and Trevis. All four 
are senior architecture students at CMU. 
Their exhibit will run through March 10.
Kathleen Mulcahy, a member of CMUs 
faculty, will follow the architecture show 
with an exhibition of her recent glass sculp
tures. Her show will run from March 13 to 
25. Hours for the gallery are Monday 
through Friday, 11:00 to 4 PM.
The CMU Art Department's Weaving De
partment will hold The 1978 Fiber Exhibi
tion from March 5 to 17 in the Skibo Fac
ulty Lounge from 11:30 to 4:30 PM, Mon
day through Friday. The exhibition will 
include various traditional and experimental 
fiber works by CMU weaving students.
This Is Tomorrow, 1956, an exhibit of 
work by Jeffrey Cole, James P. Hahn, 
Douglas H. Schwab, Joseph V. Sullivan 
and Franics Treves, will be on display at 
the Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts March 6 through 10. Hours are 11:00 
AM to 4:00 PM.
You are cordially invited to attend an 
opening by Jill T. Weiskopf, Iris Rose 
Terens and Deborah Phillips on Tuesday, 
March 7 at 7 to 9 PM. Their art work will 
be on exhibit at the Forbes Street Gallery. 
James Hagan, sculptor and Camegie-Mellon 
alumnus, will present a lecture and slide 
presentation of his work on Thursday, 
March 9 at 4:30 PM in the Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room. The event is sponsored 
by the Art Dept., SAC, and is free and open 
Regis C. Brodie will have a pottery exhibit 
at the Jeannie King Mellon Library Gallery 
at Chatham College. The show will run 
from March 12 to 31 with a preview re
ception Sunday, March 12 from 7 to 9 PM. 
The artist will hold a gallery talk Monday, 
March 14 at 11 AM.
WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show week
days from 6:30-9:30. The format of this 
program includes music, news, weather, 
class cancellations, and traffic reports. 
WRCT is located at 88.3 on your FM dial.MISC.
Ruby Dee will be a guest speaker Monday, 
March 13 at 8 PM in the ballroom. The 
event is in connection with Black Week and 
is co-sponsored by AB lectures. Admission 
is $1.00 in advance or $1.50 at the door.
A Disco/Dance will be held Saturday, March 
11 in the Skibo Ballroom at 9 PM. The 
charge is 75 cents with ID.
Campus Program Planning will hold 
three seminars this week. Tuesday, March 7, 
2 Poets: Contemporary Poetry in America 
with Gerry Costanzo, Paula Rankin and 
Donald Hall. Wednesday, Philo Pitcher, 
Jim Westerberg, Donald Miller, Henry 
Kerner and David Wilkins speak on Con
temporary Art in Western Pa.: Rejuve
nation or Decline? March 9, Interactions 
Between Art and Science discussed by 
Robert Feller, Ruth Johnston-Feller and 
James Swauger. All events start at 8 PM 
in the Wherrett Room and are free.
Dont get Lost In the ComputerCareer 
Maze...
START AT PRIME
If you think finding your way around the computer career maze has to be confusing, think 
smart.
If you think all computer companies ofTer the same challenges and opportunities, think 
twice.
And if you know theres a difference between a computerjob and a computer career, think 
Prime.
Prime Computer is the fastest growing high-technology computer manufacturer in the 
world. We need bright, career-minded engineers who are ready to meet the challenges of 
today's technology and make original contributions for tomorrows computers.
Prime Computer will be here soon and if youd like to talk to us about a computer career, 
we'd like to talk with you. In fact, if you find our interview' sheets at the Placement Office are 
full, sign up anyway. We'll make the time to meet with you. And you'll talk with members of 
our engineering department wholl tell you about a computer career at Prime.
While you're signing up, take one of our brochures. It includes our answers to some 
questionsHve think you should ask any college recruiter. And when you read the brochure 
you'll see what three graduates of the class of 77 have to say about why they came to Prime. 
Prime Computer. Think about us.
Interviewing March 14,1978
TOME
PRIME Computer, Inc. 145 Pennsylvania Ave., Framingham, Mass. 01701 (617) 879-2%0

---------------------------------------------------

page 24-TAR TAN-March 7, 1978
IS THERE LIFE AFTER COLLEGE?
You're aiming for a college 
degree. And with that in hand 
you'll be looking for a job 
offer. You may find it wont 
be automatic. For that reason 
it's important for you, as a 
sophomore, to make the 
most of your last two years 
in college. Whatever your 
career choice, youll want to 
become competitive and 
marketable It wont be easy 
but youll find yourself better 
prepared if you look ahead.
Now.
Arm yourself with the Life 
After College packet on the 
job outlook, the job search, 
career statistics. Learn what 
increases your career 
potential Sophomore, you 
can do something about 
your life after college.
Stop by the Army ROTC 
Department for this informa
tive packet.
Margaret Morrison 2nd Basement
ARMY I0IC. THE TWO YEAR PROGRAM.THATS YOUR DECISION.
NOTICE
ALL RESIDENTS OF THE DORMITORIES
Remember the important dates for Room Retention 
and Room Selection
UNDERGRADUATES
March 13, 1978 - Freshman Room Draw Lottery 
March 14, 1978 - Sophomore Room Draw Lottery 
March 15, 1978 - Junior Room Draw Lottery
Marc!1 - Room Retention - All ClassesMarch 21, 1978
April 8, 1978 - Junior Rom Selection 
April 8, 1978 - Sophomore Room Selection 
April 9, 1978 - Freshman Room Selection
GRADUATES
March 17, 1978 - Application for Housing Due 
April 7, 1978 - Notification of Room Assignment
April 20, 1978 - Housing License Agreement Due
SxranxBnHnmranxMBHnHM
This week in Intramural Sports
by Frank Pugliano
Just a reminder that Mr. Birdys appear
ance on Eyewitness Magazine is this week. 
He will discuss his career as football official 
and his career here at CMU. Film footage 
of Mr. Birdys classes will be shown. Tune 
in Monday, March 13, at 7:30 on channel 2.
The registration date for IM softball has 
been set back one week. There will be a 
mens major, intermediate, and minor 
league, as well as a womens league.
Registration forms for team badminton, 
fencing, and archery are due today in the 
IM office.
This week the IM wrestling champion
ships were held on Friday and Saturday. 
The individual champions were:
120Keith SatterwhileTG
127Marc PolandTG
135Rajiv BhallaTG
145Jim McGearyTG
155Denny CheccaTG
165John RossTG
180Ken Goldfarbunatt.
200Joe HartATO
ition as well. The men under the boards for 
Beta are Greg Samsa and Gary Bonn,, Greg 
Samsa is a real threat on the court, he is an 
excellent player who can hoop with the 
best. Gary Bonn, last years co-captain of 
the football team, can really be depended 
on when the pressure builds. The lane is 
controlled by center Bob Dudas who plays 
tough for the Beta team. At the guard pos
itions are Ricky Leamon, Joe Ginsante, 
and Craig Hladik. In reserve for Beta are 
Peter Reccia and George Sobeck. The team 
has scored the league high points for 
one game, this of 116 points. The teams 
record is 5-4 with 5 games to go. This team 
optimistically looking for a play off berth.
In other basketball action this week the 
Celtics won by forfeit over the GSIA 
Bucks, ATO slid by Beta (41-38), and ATO 
put away Reality (65-52).
Standings
HAVLICEK
The team title went to Tiny Gorillas 
(TG), Pika and ATO tied for second. The 
fastest pin was recorded by Marc Poland of 
TG, who iced his man in 27 seconds.
The Nose Knows: 
IM Basketball
The IM basketball team representing 
Beta Theta Pi not only has great basket
ball ability, but a fine spirit of compet
Celtics
The OtherOnes 
GSIA Bucks 
Beta-A 
Pika-A 
Sex Pistols
ERVING
Nerd Knockers 
ATO 
Reality II 
MDBC
Coaches All-Stars 
All-Stars
W
9
6
6
5
1
1
W
6
9
5
4
2
1
MIXOLOGY 
COURSE
To Teoch You Everything You Wont to Know 
About Bartending
You'll Be a Bartender in Demand 
ora Toastworthy Host *
?EARN EXTRA MONEY 
HEARN A SKILL*
FEE - $25 FOR THREE TWO 
HOUR SESSIONS. 
COURSE MAY BE REPEATED 
AT ANY TIME AT NO EXTRA 
CHARGE.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
PHONE 661 0909 
MONDAYS - 
6:30 P.M. to 
8:30 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978TARTANpage 25
California, Bethany 
down CMU women
by Perry Colosimo
Foul! Yes, if I had to describe the losses 
suffered by the womens basketball team 
one word, it would be this word-foul. 
The Tartans of CMU were outscored by 
CSC (60-47) and by Bethany College 
(47-46) in yet two more thrilling comeback 
attempts last week. 1 should really say that 
the Tartans defeated the Tartans. How? 
Ill tell you how; by giving up 24 points 
from the free-throw line to the squad 
from California State and by fouling out 
Jhe mainstay of their own offense, Terry 
rreskar, in play against Bethany.
In action against California State, Crys
tal Kochka, an impressive CSC ballplayer, 
was on the receiving end of the majority 
of the fouls committed by the Tartans. 
She led all scorers with 19 points and was 
awesome under the boards. In fact, Cali
fornia States height advantage could not 
be overcome by CMU as the half-time score 
^indicated (26-18). However, in the second 
half, Ingrid Goedicke, who has been ham
pered by injuries most of the season, came 
in to fire up the Tartans by hitting two 
unanswered baskets followed by a steal 
to help the Tartans pull to within five 
points (30-25).
CMUs tough defense forced a number 
of turnovers and with 11.00 minutes remaining in the game, Davina Davies sank 
two free throws to put the Tartans ahead, 
36-33. However, CMU could not hold 
on to the lead as two CMU starters, Barb 
Owens and Brandi Jackson, fouled out. 
With two starters out, CMU had difficulty 
keeping up the pressuring defensive play 
which gave them the lead and, consequent
ly, Cal State began to pull away. The final 
ft score: 60-47. High scorers for the Tartans 
were Terry Preskar with 14 points followed 
by Ingrid Goedicke who put in 10.
In last Wednesdays game against Beth
any College, fouling again fatally wounded 
the Tartans. This time it was Terry Preskar 
who collected 4 fouls in the first half, 
which ended with Bethany on top, 23-15. 
Preskar sat out for the start of the second 
 half and watched Carolyn Baxter take over 
the ballhandling. Barb Owens and Ingrid 
Goedicke kept the team stable during
Preskars absence, and soon the lead was 
cut to one, 34-33, with 6:53 remaining. 
Coach Kepple then decided it was time to 
stack the odds a little. Preskar was put 
back into the game. She immediately 
fired in a jumper from th6 top of the key. 
Carolyn Baxter and Gale Gammerdinger 
followed suit and soon the Tartans were 
ahead, 42-38. Preskar fouled out with 
1:50 remaining on a debatable call by the 
referee but there apparently was no need 
to panic. It looked like CMU had the game 
wrapped up, but with 17 seconds to go in 
the game, and Bethany down by two, Beth
any brought the ball upcourt. Kris 
Schwartzfeger, Bethanys top gun, hit a 
layup to tie the score and sent the game 
into a 5 minute overtime. Bethany quickly 
took over the lead and hung on to win it, 
47-46. Whew!
The Tartans will face Washington and 
Jefferson at W&J today at 6:00.
CMU
Davies
Preskar
Jackson
Drake
Gammerdinger
Baxter
Goedicke
Owens
Cooper
Patrick
Bethany
Mapletoft
Bertel
Mitchell
Green
Thompson
Hardy
Repplier
Richards
Foster
Schwartzfeger
Maxwell
Pti
5
4
0
8
1
4
2
0
2
21
0
March, 1978 Civic Arena events
DateDay
8Wed.
10Fri.
11Sat.
12Sun.
14 19 Tues.-
Sun.
22Wed.
23Thurs.
25Sat.
29Wed.
31Fri.
Event
ARENA
Hockey-Penguins vs. Colorado 
Wrestling (Matches to be announced) 
Hockey Penguins vs. Vancouver 
Hockey-Penguins vs. Toronto 
Ice Follies 
Tues thru Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
Hockey Penguins vs. Colorado 
Musical-John Denver 
Hockey-Penguins vs. Detroit 
Musical-Eric Clapton 
Dapper Dan Roundball Classic
Admission
Mft
Pt
0 
6 
0
3
a e Agressive play marked the Tartans' close losses this week. Here three CMU players converge to take
^ the ball from a Cal State player.
5
19 
0 
0join a leader 
in information 
processing
????????????
$3.00, $4.00, $5.00
Time
7.30 PM 
8:30 PM 
8:00 PM 
7:30 PM
$5.00, $6.00, $7.00
8:00 PM
1.00 PM, 5:00 PM, 9:00 PM 
2:00 PM, 6:00 PM
7.30 PM
8:00 PM $5.25, $7.75, $10.25 
8:00 PM
8:00 PM $5.50, $6.50, $7.50
6:45 PM $3.25, $5.25, $7.25
As one of the few companies in the 
world capable of exploiting the full 
potential of todays most sophisticated 
computer hardware and software sys
tems, National CSS has consistently 
shown itself to be a leader in Total In
formation Processing.
Our operations include the largest IBM 
based computer system in commercial 
timesharing, and we will soon be intro
ducing a line of state-of-the-art mini
computer systems.
As for Research and Development, 
National CSS ranks Number 1 among 
all U.S. computer companies in RAD 
dollars spent per employee . . . and 
8th among all publicly held companies 
in the U.S.
As a National CSS professional, you 
will be deeply involved in a multi
project Systems Development Depart
ment, working in a stimulating environ
ment conducive to career growth, in
the following systems programming 
areas:
 Developing distributed data base 
technology.
 Developing sophisticated high 
performance time-sharing operat
ing systems utilizing virtual mem
ory and paging technk|ues.
 Simulation of OS and VS access 
methods and supervisory services 
in a time-sharing environment.
 Minicomputer software for expan
sion of our international packet 
switch communications network.
 Interactive software for program 
debugging and text editing
 User oriented problem-solving 
environment.
 State-of-the-art minicomputer 
systems.
If you are motivated by challenge and 
opportunities for significant accom
plishments, National CSS is for you.
8 12 Wed. 
Sun.
31 Fri. 
Ap 1 Sat
EXHIBIT HALL
Pittsburgh Home Products & Furnishings Show $2.00 Adults
Wed.-Fri., Mar. 8 10 5:30 PM-10:30 PM $1.00 Child
Sat., Mar 11 1.00 PM-10:30 PM,
Sun., Mar. 12 1:00 PM-9:00 PM
Greater Pittsburgh Specialties Dog Show $2.00 Adult
11:00 AM-10:00 PM .50 Child 
W.P.K.A. Dog Show 8:00 AM-9:00 PM $3.00 Adults
.75 Child
For further information, see our Recruiter on campus, 
Thursday, March 9,1978
Contact your Career Placement Office 
to arrange an appointment.
An Cqu< Opportunity Employ** M.F
SS8 National CSS
... answers for business & industry
AMATUER HOCKEY
High School Students $1.50, Adults $2.50 
March 7 (6.30 PM); March 12 (1 00 PM)
Morrow

---------------------------------------------------

page 26-TARTAN-March 7, 1978
Hockey season ends, future appraised
by Ed Sullivan
The 1977-78 CMU hockey season has 
been, at best, a disappointment. While 
the season is not quite complete (there are 
two games left), and the statistics are only 
available for the first seven league games, 
some conclusions can be drawn for the 
past season. The team has a few problems 
which should be corrected in order to give 
the squad a chance to perform to the limit 
of their collective ability.
The Tartans did not have a coach this 
season. Obviously, as much as they may 
try, the players themselves cant run a prac
tice as well or push themselves to the 
physical extents that a coach could. The 
lack of a coach should be looked into by 
people who know about hockey and would 
be willing to give up a bit of their time in 
order to give CMU back its winning tradi
tion of a few short years ago.
Graduating seniors Steve Fuchs (de
fense), Tom Grimm (left wing), Bill Miller 
(defense). Jack Arturo (center and captain), 
and Doug Johnston (goaltender) take with 
them a wealth of talent that will be hard to 
replace. These seniors represent most of 
the starting lineup and a great deal of the 
scoring and hitting ability. The remaining 
players will have to prepare mentally and 
physically for the next season. Also, any 
students who have hockey experience 
would be more than welcome to bolster 
the ranks next season.
Huddled at the top of the scoring lists 
are Arturo (8 points, 5 goals. 3 assists), 
Grimm (7 points, 3 goals, 3 assists), and 
Jeff Reh (7 points, 2 goals, 5 assists). In 
the search for one of the more dubious 
honors, leader in penalty minutes, the 
winners are Mark Jonatti (13:47) and 
Miller (13:31), with Fuchs a close third
with 11:31.
Goalie Johnston was pelted with an 
average of 26 shots per game, most in the 
first and second periods. The defense al
ways seemed to cut down shots on goal 
totals in the third period. Doug averaged 
almost 21 saves per game, a large total to 
be forced into every game.
Just from a spectator's point of view, 
a few problems seem evident. Lack of 
Physical size, while not something that can 
be readily corrected, kept the Tartans from 
getting the puck in some tight situations. 
Fundamentals, such as picking up cen
tering passes and clearing the puck out of 
the zone, could be improved greatly with 
the help of a coach or two. The latter puts 
a great deal of pressure on die goalie who 
is forced to stop open, point blank shots 
more often than he should.
The seniors were asked what they
thought of the past season and/or what can 
be improved upon to make the 197879 
season successful. High-scoring wing 
Grimm and hard-hitting defenseman Miller 
were not available for comment.
Steve FuchsThey will need a coach 
because the talent is there. They may have 
a good goalie prospect playing next season. 
Steve also added that he had a lot of fun 
playing hockey.
Jack Arturo They need experienced 
talent because the money and the orga
nization is there.
Doug JohnstonTheyll need a good 
goalie, and a coach, because not everyone 
utilized their ability as much as they might 
have under a coach.
leers break into 
the win columnbeat St Vincent, 7-6
The CMU Hockey Team defeated St. 
Vincent College 7-6 Sunday night in Latrobe, ending a season-long quest for a 
victory.
Center Mark Jonatti played perhaps 
his finest game of the season, scoring 
four goals while checking and passing 
aggresively all night.
Playing left-wing for only the second 
time in his career, Bill Miller beautifully 
assisted Jonatti on three of his four goals.
Ken Spahn, Mark Maddelene, Dave 
Olisar, and Jack Arturo provided the rest 
of the Tartans scoring punch. Little 
Mark Maddelene, also playing his finest 
game, scored two goals on assists from 
Arturo and Fuchs.
Fencing offered 
to all students
by John Jones
If any of you readers consider yourself 
as throwbacks to the days when pirates 
dueled with gleaming sabres on the decks 
of ships, or perhaps are just interested in an 
exciting activity that provides excellent 
excercise, then you might be interested in 
the fencing program here at CMU.
The program is run by the Womens 
Athletic Director, Jane Fisk. There are 
three areas of participation: fencing
classes, the fencing club, and the varsity 
fencing team.
The fencing classes are offered for credit 
by the Physical Education Department. 
Jane Fisk cites the high carryover from 
beginning fencing to intermediate fencing 
as an indication that the students who do 
attempt fencing find it interesting enough 
to continue.
The Varsity Fencing Team is composed 
of undergraduates, both men and women. 
They practice regularly. The Fencing 
Club is composed of faculty, graduate stu
dents, community members and under 
grads who are interested in competing but 
who do not have the time to work out 
daily with the varsity team. This club is 
instructed by a fencing master from the 
local community.
CMU sponsors two large meets every 
year for their fencers to compete in: 
the CMU Invitational Open meet and the 
intercollegiate novice and intermediate 
meet. They are adding a new twist this 
season by sponsoring a couples meet in 
which six schools are expected to enter. 
In addition to this, Jane Fisk has scheduled 
several coaching clinics to be held at CMU 
this summer.
ANNOUNCING...
NON-STOPAIRPORT LIMO SERVICEto and fromCROSSGATES INNin the heart of Oakland!
An added measure for TOTAL CONVENIENCEfor BUSINESS AND SOCIAL EVENTS Conference facilities and meeting rooms totally equipped for the most sophisticated meeting. Superb banquet accommodations and service. Beautiful guest rooms and suites. The home of Wonderful Wandas, exciting restaurant and night spot with live entertainment. NON-STOP LIMO SERVICE TO AND FROM GREATER PITTSBURGH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT Mon. - Fri.,7 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. to 9 p.m.
CROSSGATES INN
Forbes Av. at McKce PI. 
412/683-6000

---------------------------------------------------

March 7, 1978TARTANpage 27
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
# Ford, Hearn, master conoeing, schoolwork
Kent Ford carefully kneels into the ca
noe, a paddle is handed down to him. His 
helmet is fixed so that it will carry him 
firmly through his battle to trick the 
whitewater into letting him slip and mus
cle his way, backward and forward, 
through twenty slalom gates. Transfixed 
for a moment. Ford stares at two streams 
#of white water rushing one under the 
other at right angles into a submerged 
drain. His mind fights to repress the 
thought but still he cant help but marvel 
how the two rushes of water resemble 
isentropic expansion through a nozzle 
with choked conditions at the throat.
Sitting at his desk the first day of the 
fall semester Kent Ford greets his instruc
tor; the teacher speaks with a slight Aus
trian accent. Like a song the instruc
tors accent stimulates memories of ca
noeing in Austria this summer, and the 
chorus of appreciative people lining the 
most beautiful river he had ever competed 
on.
In the best tradition of Clark Kent, 
Kent Ford is the number one ranked de
ll fending national champion in whitewater 
slalom canoe racing, and is a junior in 
Carnegie-Mellons top rated mechanical 
engineeiine department.
Ford paddles for the powerful Canoe 
Cruiser oi Washinpmn )>( one o! his 
teammates is Dave Heam. Hearn, who in 
lc)76 was also a national slalom canoe 
champion at age 17, graduated fiom high 
^ school last year and was searching for a 
good science school. To the rescue came 
Kent Ford, who recommended CamegieMellon because of its academic reputation 
and in spite of its limited training facilities.
Hearn is now a nascent chemist here and 
he, like Ford, believes the added pressure 
of schoolwork has made his paddling 
even tougher-and visa versa. Dave and I 
^ lead two lives, explained Ford. All my 
free time goes to paddling, while another 
student might spend some of this time 
thinking about some engineering problem. 
This makes it hard and probably hurts our 
paddling in the short run.
Hearn and Ford are not worried, 
though. Their response has been to train 
and train-whenever and wherever they 
can. Both want to become individual 
^ champions on a world championship team.
Theyre already close. At the World
Championships last July in Spittal, Austria,
the U.S. team placed seventh in the
medal standings, the highest ever. Whitewatei cant>einj encompasses both k *vak
and canoe racing. The mam ditteence
between the two is that kayak laceis use
a double bladed paddle and the canoeists
use a single blade which, theoretically,
makes canoeing a bit tougher. Kavakers
ami caiH*eisK iace alone, with a fen>:i!- or
male panne . ovei a slalom 01 wildwae,
.men is whitcwa'ti s equivalent ol
skiing downhill) course, and in team events.
At Spittal, Ford placed seventh in the 
singles canoe slalom, but should have
I rl.ued hit'he; Anop Heam w:* aw:' ' ' a 
bion/e modal competing in lie earn
prtui wildwaU! event
Ford felt the team could have done 
better. There were 10,000 spectators 
lining the river in Austria. The American 
team was hurt by the intense atmosphere. 
There was a general lack of experience 
among the American team members--we 
| weren't used to TV cameras peering down 
on the competition.
In I1)?1), however, the World Champion
ships will be held at the famed whitewater 
course in Junquiere, Quebec. Heam and 
Ford drool at the thought of the Europe
ans having to travel here to compete. Says 
Hearn: This is the first time the Worlds 
will have been held on this continent. Now 
the Europeans (who have dominated the 
sport) will have to go to the trouble and 
expense of coming here.
If our CMU paddlers are to make the 
U.S. team, they must overcome difficul
ties such as balancing time for schoolwork 
and training and the competition from a 
group of young talented paddlers. The two 
have already made plans to peak for the 
World Championships in 1979; their 
training schedule begins this spring with 
the U.S. championships in Natahala, North 
Carolina.
The down after the World meet is in
credible, said Ford. Leaving the beau
tiful rivers of Europe and returning to the 
books at Camegie-Mellon was slightly de
pressing. White water canoeing is a world 
championship event held every two years 
(Munich in 1972 was whitewaters last 
Olympic year) so Im beginning to build 
back up again. Hearn and Ford are con
cerned about the lack of paddling time, but 
are trying to make up for this by running 
and lifting weights. They paddle in the 
swimminp pool when scheduling, and the 
coal strike, permit
Since serious training lor the World 
event requires at least two workouts a day, 
both Heam and Ford plan to take off the 
spring semester before the World Cham
pionships. Youre only young once, 
rationalizes Heam. How often do you get 
to compete in a world championship?
. We agree. But even if Hearn and Ford 
werent trying for international recog
nition, their love affair with the sport has 
given them a great deal. If you confront 
them, Hearn and Ford will claim that 
canoeing is a lot of fun, but their discus
sion of the philosophy of the sport ex
pands that narrow definition.
Both competitors speak reverently of 
the melding of boat and body, the combin
ation of fitness and finesse, which make
a good whitewater canoeist. They know 
that canoeing in whitewater is more than 
purely strength or purely luck. The river 
cannot be harnessed at will. Rather, the 
canoeist must sense a weakness in the 
river and then, with a burst of soul numb
ing effort, he slips through this opening, 
letting the recovered river guide him
through the next gate.
It is fun, even more so for those who do 
it well. Hearn and Ford are hungry for 
more rewards. That means getting better, 
even if getting better means practicing 
twice a day for two months.
They realize that while they will for 
the better part of their lives be a chemist 
and mechanical engineer, for now, at least, 
they have an opportunity to do something 
special.
Canoeists Dave Hearn (above) and Kent Ford prepare for big competitions by spending several 
hours a day in the water. The picture of Hearn appeared in the Washington Post last year.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSPAC disappoints CMU swimmers
by John Rossi
The Camegie-Mellon Swimming Team 
travelled to John Carroll on March 2 to 
participate in the PAC Championship meet. 
The meet went worse than any wildest 
nightmare right from the beginning and 
CMU finished fifth.
The Tartans arrived at the pool to warm 
up on Thursday evening with high hopes 
and dreams of a second place finish. These 
dreams were crushed as CMU was not 
allowed to participate in Thursdays events, 
the 1650 yd. Freestyle, the 400 yd. Indivi
dual Medley and the 800 yd. Freestyle Re
lay. A procedure change had been insti
tuted with regard to the method of enter
ing swimmers in the events. This change 
was not made clear, and a misunderstand
ing resulted. The meet director attempted 
to contact Tartan Coach Donna Pecman at 
the hotel to inform her of the situation, 
and the hotel twice replied that the Tartans 
had not yet arrived, even though CMU had 
been there over an hour. Because of this, 
no CMU swimmers were entered in the 
Thursday events. The Tartans might still 
have been able to swim, as the matter came 
down to a vote of the PAC swimming 
coaches. But these coaches voted not to 
allow CMU to participate, even though sev
eral of them would have been in the same 
predicament as CMU but for a last minute 
call from the meet director. These coaches 
saw a chance to better their finish in the 
meet, and so they abandoned sportsman
ship for personal gain. The Tartans and 
Coach Pecman were angry and frustrated, 
but nothing else could be done. The epi
sode may have deprived the Tartans of as 
many as 70 points, as well as preventing 
Jim Matysek from having a chance to qual
ify for Nationals in the 1650 yd. Freestyle.
Despite the tremendous letdown, the 
Tartans responded like a truly great team 
to swim a tremendous meet. Thursdays 
farce forced CMU to rearrange their strat
egy. The Tartans now had to gamble for 
every point possible. The 200 yd. Indivi
dual Medley provided a good start as Joe 
Dickey (2:05.9) finished fifth and Harry 
Coleman (2:07.2) finished seventh. Dave 
Watte rson swam to his best time but failed 
to place In the 50 yd. Freestyle, Tom Barr
(23.5) placed tenth, with Pete Dickey
(23.5) just missing finals. Carnegie-Mellons 
Doug McPherson placed twelfth in the 200 
yd. Butterfly (2:12). The Tartans were 
shut out in the 200 yd. Freestyle despite 
excellent swims by John Rossi (1:57.5), 
Joachim Nettle (1:57.6) and Jeff Bland 
(1.57.9). Jim Matysek the star of the meet
for CMU, finished second in the 100 yd. 
Breaststroke, and also qualified for Nationals with a clocking of 1.02.09. In the 100 
yd. Backstroke, Harry Coleman was fifth 
(57.8) and Joe Dickey was seventh (59,4). 
Tony Carrington and Bob Frye were ninth 
and tenth in 1 meter Diving and both nar
rowly missed qualifying for Nationals. The 
CMU 400 yd. Medley Relay of Joe Dickey, 
Jim Matysek, Harry Coleman and Tom 
Barr finished second (3:44.4) and also 
qualified for Nationals. Despite the excel
lent swims by everybody, and school re
cords in the 200 I.M., 100 Breaststroke, 
100 backstroke and Medley Relay, the Tar
tans were a distant fifth after Friday.
Saturday, however, proved to be the 
Tartans strongest day. It began with Jim 
Matysek finishing second in the 500 yd. 
Freestyle (4:53.4-school record). John 
Rossi bettered his previous best time by 
over 15 seconds to jlnish tenth (5:15.6). 
Joachim Nettle (5:20.8), Doug McPherson 
(5:28.2) and Neal Kushner (5:59.9) all 
swam well but didnt place. In the 100 yd. 
Freestyle, Tom Barr (51.4) placed eighth. 
Pete Dickey (52.9) and Jeff Bland (52.9) 
swam well. Joe Dickey was fourth in the 
200 yd. Backstroke (2.07.6) and Dave 
Watterson (2:13.1) was eighth. Jim Matysek 
finished second in the 200 yd. Breaststroke 
after setting a PAC record of 2:16.8 in the 
preliminary heats, also qualifying for Nat
ionals. Jamie Uber (2:34.9) and Brian 
Hobbs (2:38.0) had good swims also. Harry 
Coleman finished second in the 100 yd. 
Butterfly in a school record 53.5. Divers 
Frye and Carrington finished eighth and 
ninth in the 3 meter event. Carnegie-Mellons 400 yd. Freestyle Relay of Joe Dic
key, Tom Barr, Harry Coleman and Jim 
Matysek finished fifth in a school record 
3:25.0. Camegie-Mellon scored more 
points even without Thursdays events than 
they scored last year in the entire meet.
The Tartans performance after the 
Thursday Night Massacre was a tribute to 
the superb coaching job done this year by 
Donna Pecman. CMU set nine school re
cords, and three more would doubtlessly 
have fallen Thursday night. CMU will be 
strong next year as well, loosing only dis
tance man John Rossi, sprinter Pete Dickey 
and butterflyer Neal Kushner. With some 
good recruits, the Tartans can begin to 
challenge for the top spot in PAC Swim
ming. The season is not over, however, as 
four swimmers will now move on to Nat
ionals. The Medley Relay of Joe Dickey, 
Jim Matysek, Harry Coleman and Tom 
Barr has qualified, and Coleman (100 yd.
Joe Dickey "flys" through the water in an effort to salvage a good Tartan showing at the PAC's 
last weekend.
Butterfly) and Matysek (100 and 200 yd 
Breaststrokes) have qualified for individual 
events. It is not out of the question that 
these swimmers could finish in the top 12
in their events, becoming All-Americans 
and putting CMU on the Division III 
Swimming scoreboard for the first time
ever.
Harvey, Harper repeat 
as All-Conference picks
The 1977-78 CMU Swimming Team finished its season this past Saturday at the PAC champion
ship meet in Cleveland. Ohio.
For the second consecutive season, the 
first word in Presidents Athletic Confer
ence basketball is George Harvey.
Harvey, the 5-11 senior guard from 
Pittsburgh, as he was a year ago, was a un
animous first choice by vote of the PAC 
coaches. He also was selected as the PAC 
Player of the Year for the second 
straight time.
The cat-quick Harvey paced CamegieMellon to its second place finish to newlycrowned league champion Bethany College 
by leading the Tartans in scoring (18.9), 
free thow percentage (81.3) and assists
(4.6). For good measure, Harvey had a 
career-high 39 points in CMUs 93-81 vic
tory over Pennsylvania Conference member 
California State.
Harvey was joined on the first unit by 
teammate Les Harper, a 6-6 leaper who, 
like Harvey, was selected for a first team 
berth for the second straight year. The 
Pittsburgh native led CMU rebounding
(8.6) and topped the campaign with a 29- 
point, eight-rebound performance in a 
97-68 win over Thiel.
Larry Hufnagel was the third Tartan 
honored by the PAC. The powerful soph
omore forward from Pittsburghs South 
Hills Catholic recieved honorable mention 
for his perfonnance this season.
1977-78 PRESIDENTS ATHLETIC 
CONFERENCE ALL-LEAGUE 
BASKETBALL
First^Team:
Individual (School)
George Harvey (Carnegie-Mellon) 
Mark Termini (Case Western Reserve) 
Eric Lindberg (Allegheny) '
Les Harper (Carnegie-Mellon)
Greg Dulkowski (Bethany)
Honorable Mention:
Individual (School)
Jim Wheeler (Allegheny)
Jim Skerl (John Carroll)
Kendall Hayes (Bethany)
Larry Hufnagel (Carnegie-Mellon) 
Paul Shivers (Case Western Reserve)
Sec ondJTeam:
Individual {School)
Fran Haus (Bethany)
Scott Thompson (Bethany)
Mike Thierman (Thiel)
Saul Cyvas (John Carroll)
Roger Raybuck (Washington &Jefferson)
Tarxan All-PAC choices George Harvey (top) and 
Les Harper made the team for the second straight 
year.
