The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 13, January 21, 1986.
CMU-Pitt
get Cray computer
New study rooms debut February
py KAREN WOODILLA
fartan Staffwriter
I A $9,300 allocation from the University 
Resource Allocations Board to the Hunt 
Library operating budget will enable 
Itudents to use all floors of Hunt Library unP 3 a.m. every weeknight starting around 
February 1, but equipment delivery delays 
|ostpone the opening of Hunt Librarys new 
poup study rooms for at least one month.
The extended hours and improved group 
Itudy rooms are the result of special alloca
tions from University Administrators and a 
punt Library User survey developed by 
library Management and Student Senate to 
retermine how the collections, facilities and 
|mbiance of Hunt Library could be improv|d. Over 100 survey responses were return
ed and compiled.
I Many things came up in the survey,
among them problems with the hours of 
Hunt Library, especially with students in the 
College of Fine Arts. I was not in the posi
tion to open the library for longer hours 
because I did not have the resources, said 
Tom Michalak, Director of University 
Libraries.
Michalak expects the new Hunt Library 
hours to occur as soon as we have the 
necessary staff support hired. Our target for 
beginning the new schedule is February 1. 
Extending library hours by one hour will 
benefit many students, but the key issue is 
that the whole library will now be accessi
ble until 3 a.m. We will now be completely 
open for 122 hours each week. There have 
been no real concerns about weekend hours."
Currently, Hunt Librarys third and 
fourth floors close at midnight and the first 
and second floors close at 2 a.m., during the
week.
The Resource Allocations Board's $9,300 
allocation increases Hunt Librarys 
operating budget to $2,429,300. It appears 
as if the new schedule will continue next 
year. The Resource Allocations poard 
allocates funds on a permanent basis and 
these allocations build a budget base, ex
plained Michalak. Next year the funds 
should carry forward in our budget request.
Equipment shipping delays continue to 
prevent student access to Hunt Librarys 
group study rooms. Meanwhile, students use 
tables in Hunt Librarys basement lobby for 
group study. The rooms have been under 
construction for nearly four months. 
Automation and Planning offices moved in
to the former group study rooms to make 
space for the new Educational Software 
continued on page 2
In This Issue:
News
Crime report..............................page 4
Features
Internships.................................page 7
Szechuan Gourmet.................page 7
Entertainment
Stevie Ray Vaughan............page 11
Pittsburgh Public Theatre...page 11
Sports
Basketball splits.....................page 15
Super Preview.......................page 18
Editorial...................................page 20
ACME......................................page 23
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Mellon-Pitt-Carnegie Corporation, a 
joint venture of Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh, announced Friday 
the receipt of a $40 million grant for a super
computer center in Pittsburgh. The projects 
total value is over $70 million.
The grant was issued by the National Science Foundation (NSF) as part of the 
establishment of five national supercom
puting centers around the country, of which 
Pittsburgh will be the most advanced. The 
[computer, a top of the line Cray X-MP/48, 
will cost $22 million.
The center, to be known as the Pittsburgh 
Center for Advanced Computing in 
Engineering and the Sciences, will involve the Westinghouse Electric Company along with Pitt and CMU in the operation of the 
Cray. The supercomputer will be located at 
Westinghouses Monroeville facility and will 
be accessible to PCs and workstations on 
both campuses via dedicated high-speed transmission lines. Approximately thirty 
support staff for researchers will be 
employed at Mellon Institute.
President Cyert hailed the center as one 
of the most fantastic I have been involved 
in, and noted that We won only because 
of teamwork. Carnegie Mellon - Pitt 
:ooperation was the key. I give [Pitt Presiient] Wesley Posvar more credit than I give 
nyself.
Posvar called the establishment of the 
:enter A big day for the city of Pittsburgh, 
Carnegie-Mellon, the University of Pittiburgh, and Westinghouse. He predicted 
hat the supercomputer complex would 
^ecome the centerpiece of high technology 
initiatives [in Pittsburgh].
 The prime academic motivating forces 
>ehind the project are physics professors 
Michael Levine of CMU and Ralph Roskies 
>f Pitt. Both were excited about the prospect 
>f using a supercomputer. Roskies postulated 
hat the machine would make possible bold 
ind imaginative new projects scientists voidd not dare to otherwise undertake.
Researchers at Pitt and CMU will not be he only ones using the Cray. It will be link
Campus security improving
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
MCS student senator Toby Ayre wants to 
calm the fears of students who are concern
ed that campus security fails to keep them 
safe. Several people have spoken to me 
about this problem. But its only a perceiv
ed problem, its not really there,he said.
Director of Security at the Campus Police 
Department, Robert Fadzen, supported 
Ayres statement. There hasnt been a rise 
in crimes. There have been a couple of pet
ty thefts which is always the biggest crime 
area. Other than that, we havent really had 
any more, said Fadzen. He listed petty theft, 
fights and arguments, and vandalism, the 
last two as a result of alcohol, as the only 
crimes invading on-campus life.
Ive had calls about the rapes in 
Shadyside and that raises concern here. 
Strange part about this is that last year there 
were two rapes of ours but they didnt raise 
the concern raised this year, Fadzen said.
In order to alleviate student fears, securi
ty has increased patrols. Currently, a special 
patrol occurs from 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. A 
number of students complained that they 
didnt want patrol in the halls (in Morewood 
Gardens). Its difficult to balance. This 
wasnt the idea that Big Brother is watching. 
said Fadzen.
In order to maintain a safe campus, 
Fadzen emphasized a need for a cooperative
effort between students and security. I see 
some of it already. Now we receive more and 
more calls reporting suspicious persons that
0UCE
I
- / W ife*
WKKUBKImm
photo by Jack Poller
students, faculty, and staff see. Id rather 
answer 100 calls where only one proves 
suspicious than have someone suspicious 
around.
However, students arent the only people 
concerned about campus security. Parents 
are looking for apartments for their kids and 
they say they are looking for apartments 
within the shuttle radius, said Fadzen.
Fadzen suggested the shuttle service and 
the escort service for students as a means of 
maintaining their safety late at night. The
Id rather answer 100 calls 
where only one proves 
suspicious than have someone 
suspicious around.
escort service lasts until 2:30 a.m. but I have 
a meeting to extend the escort service. 
Students can call escort to pick them up late 
at night, he said.
According to Fadzen, the escort and shut
tle service has grown dramatically. In the 
last few years, the service has increased from 
64,000 riders to 140,000 riders. People have 
learned to use and like it. They feel more 
secure. The shuttle service has grown by 
leaps and bounds from one used and one 
new van to two busses and two vans, he said.
In discussing any security lapses, Fadzen 
leaps and bounds from one used and one 
continued on page 4
ed to the other four NSF supercomputers 
through a nationwide network. This network 
will allow scientists in other areas of the 
country to access the Pittsburgh Cray via 
other supercomputers.
Ironically, the Carnegie-Mellon/Pitt con
sortium was not slated to receive a super
computer. Originally, only four supercom
puter centers were to be established, and the 
Mellon-Pitt-Carnegie proposal was ranked 
fifth. But, the group was offered a chance 
to acquire a Cray 1-S from NASAs Lewis 
Research Center in Cleveland. Project 
continued on page 2
James Kasdorf of Westinghouse, Michael Levine of Carnegie Mellon and Ralph Roskies 
of the University of Pittsburgh announced the acquisition of the Cray X-MP/48 super 
computer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
Thistle changes
By OLVE PEERSEN
Tartan Managing Editor
The Carnegie Mellon University Thistle 
yearbook will change from a spring to a fall 
issue effective this year. The change is 
designed to better accommodate the events 
of each academic year, ease the load on the 
yearbook staff, and altogether improve the 
quality of the production.
Under the current agreement with their 
publisher, the staff must produce approx
imately eighty percent of the book before 
Christmas vacation, with the remainder to 
be completed by the end of January. The 
Thistle staff believes that having more time 
to prepare the book will result in a much 
better production.
Because of the January deadline, events 
such as Greek Sing, Spring Carnival, and 
Commencement were included in the year
book of the following year, i.e. the 1984 Car
nival is in the upcoming 1985 issue. Under 
the new format, all spring events will appear 
in their proper issue.
This year marks the 80th volume of The 
Thistle, and in conjunction with Andrew 
Carnegies birthday, the theme is Reminis
cent of the Past. It will include a special sec
tion on old Thistle material, as well as sixtyfour color pages.
According to Editor-in-Chief Mike 
Swatko, The Thistle will also have a more 
elaborate layout this year, removing itself 
from the straight pictures approach and 
adopting a more documentary style.
The Thistle is available for $18 and can 
be reserved through March 21. Graduating 
seniors will be sent their copies while 
underclassmen will be able to pick theirs up 
at the beginning of next year.
Scholarship established
PITTSBURGH  The Architecture 
Department in Carnegie-Mellon Universitys 
College of Fine Arts has established the FitzGibbon Chair and Scholarships.
The announcement of the Fitz-Gibbon 
endowment was made by Omer Akin, head 
of the department. The gift gives the depart
ment an opportunity to bring a distinguish
ed architect into the faculty.
T. David Fitz-Gibbon received a degree in 
architecture from Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in 1914. He returned to his 
native Virginia and conducted a successful 
practice in Norfolk until his retirement in 
1972. An endowment in his name was
established at Carnegie-Mellon in 1984 from 
a charitable trust Fitz-Gibbon set up in his 
will.
Akin said an international search will be 
conducted during the 1986-87 to fill the 
faculty chair.
Well be searching for an architect with 
international recognition for his or her 
achievements, Akin said, someone who has 
demonstrated excellence in teaching and is 
interested in making contributions to the 
Department of Architecture.
One or more scholarships for architecture 
students will also be created through the 
Fitz-Gibbon bequest.
Dr. Cyert: It was a long, long, hard fight 
and we are very happy we are the winner.Computer
continued from page 1
leaders Levine and Roskies then compiled a 
budget showing it to be cheaper to buy the 
X-MP/48 than to transfer the 1-S. Armed 
with their research, Cyert and Posvar set 
about convincing the National Science 
Foundation.
Cyert and Posvar also gave credit for the 
success of the project to Pennsylvania 
Senators Specter and Heinz, and to area 
congressmen. Singled out for special praise 
was Governor Richard Thornburgh, who 
authorized $5.25 million in state funds for 
the centers operation.
This was harder than the SEI, com
mented Cyert. We were on the floor, 
counted out, and we came back.
Hunt Library
continued from page 1
Library. Student Senate helped to secure a 
special grant from President Richard M. 
Cyert, making it possible to replace the lost 
group study rooms.
We are waiting for steel casing from the 
E & I Cooperative, a local manufacturer and 
distributor of the equipment we need," 
Michalak explained. Our request was hand 
delivered to them on October 29. O, 
November 1, we received notification that 
shipping would be in six weeks. Last week 
we heard that shipping is slated for February 
7. We should receive the shipment around 
Valentines Day, then the easing will be in
stalled. It is not feasible to switch contrac
tors because the E & I steel casing is a good 
product, and we have a 50% discount. We 
are hard put to purchase an equivalent pro
duct from elsewhere. What can we do? Some 
things take longer than others.
Students will retain use of the group stud^ 
tables in Hunt Librarys basement lobby 
after the group study rooms are completed. 
We find that wherever we put tables and 
chairs students use them. Students are in the 
habit of using the area all the time, 
Michalak said.
Student Senates Campus Affairs Commit
tee recently met with Michalak concerning 
the group study room construction delay. 1 
know the Administration is working hard to 
meet student needs, said Student Senator 
Peter Cohen, Chair of the Campus Affairs 
Committee. Things could have been started 
earlier.
TARTAN NEWS 
Write Now
?
Spring Carnival
BOOTH MEETING SCHEDULE
DATEROOMTIME
JAN 21127pm
FEB 4117pm
FEB 18128pm
MAR 4117pm
MAR 18117pm
APR 1117pm
APR 8457pm
f

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland Yard
Now Open Five Days A Week
Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Thursday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Superbowl Sunday from 4 p.m. until the end of game
interested in
Performing at 
Scotland Yard?
Call X4821

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
Campus
continued from page 1
cited neglect on the part of students as a pro
blem. Theres a feeling of complacency 
among students. Students feel it cant hap
pen to me. I wish students would be a little 
more concerned. Some things well never be 
able to solve no matter what we do. But 
some things are preventable, he said.
One of the biggest problems in 
Morewood Gardens is blocking doors open, 
said Fadzen. In order to stop this from oc
curring, security hopes to get an alarm 
system which wTill have and immediate 
response if the door is not completely clos
ed. Fadzen also plans to install fire doors 
with magnetic latches throughout campus 
to prevent people from getting into 
buildings. Other solutions included simply 
making sure that rooms are locked. Don't 
block doors and even off campus, theres 
safety in numbers," said Fadzen.
Security has planned some programs to
security
increase safety awareness. We will be show
ing a video on Nobodys Victim!things to 
think about on the street. We want you to 
avoid getting into a bad situation but if in 
the situation, we want you to know what to 
do and how to fend off problems. Bill Rit
chie and some of his students will also 
demonstrate defensive tactics you can take 
if you are assaulted,  said Fadzen. They 
plan to start the program in the sororities.
Fadzen is putting together a booklet which 
will discuss many possible safety measures for 
students. The booklet would be included 
with the registration material that students 
receive in the mail.
Fadzen did stress the fact that if students 
have concerns about campus security, he is 
available to speak with them. My door is 
always open. I will support anything to 
enhance security. I feel like a parent to each 
student so my concern is probably even 
more, he said.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merftbers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Crime and incident report
By DEBBIE YUESaturday, January 11(between 6PM and 10PM) Three ground level dorm rooms in Hamershlag House were ransacked. A total of $81 was stolen ($51 from one room and $30 from another); no valuables were taken but various items were moved around. The person(s) responsible is unknown at this time. CMU police are investigating the matter.
Sunday, January 12(2:25AM) Someone painted one of the CMU traffic patrol cars.
Monday, January 13(4:25PM) The wife of a CMU professor was hit by a pick-up truck in the intersection of Margaret Morrison Street and Tech Street. She was crossing the street and the pick-up was turning left onto Tech Street. A nurse from St. Margaret Hospital, who was behind the pickup and witnessed the accident, attended the victim; she stated that apparently neither saw the other. The victim complained of pains in her left leg and of a lump on her head. Shes been taken to Shadyside Hospital.(11PM) A CMU student spotted a reddish colored van on Forbes Avenue and Beeler Street. The occupants in the van were watching her suspiciously. She was not able to get a good description of the occupants, but only noticed that one of them was a black or very dark male.
Perform Amazing Feats
If you believe you have more talent in your big toe than anybody you've ever met, 
then direct your feet to the sunny side of the street Because Busch Gardens, that 
wildly entertaining and exotic attraction in Tampa, Florida, is on the hunt for excep
tional talent to join our rare breed of entertainers.
Singers&Dancers
Seeking strong male and female singers who dance well, and feature dancers. Bring 
dance attire and be prepared to show movement ability Singers are required to 
prepare short vocal selections (ballad and uptempo) and should bring sheet music 
in their best key Accompanist will be provided j
Musicians
Seeking musicians who play primary and secondary instruments, as well as. Accor
dion, Steel Guitar, Country Fiddle, Tuba and Percussion and brass players experi
enced in dance/marching band style Musicians should prepare two selections 
which demonstrate their abilities. ^
Atmosphere Entertainers
Seeking experienced performers with background in comedy and improvisation 
Bring necessary props and prepare a two-minute comedy piece to demonstrate^
special abilities.
To audition, you must be 18 years or older Auditions are held on a first come basis 
Plan to pin us
Wednesday, January 29,1986 
Hyatt Pittsburgh at Chatham Center 
112 Washington Place  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
10:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
CMU-P
,! UHI
T \MP \ f LOK IDA Equal Opportunity fmptoyef M F H/V
Heinz gives SUPA$4 million
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie-Mellons School of Urban and 
Public Affairs (SUPA) received gifts last 
semester from the Heinz family interests 
totalling four million dollars.
The school will use the money to create 
the H.J. Heinz Chair of Urban and Public 
Affairs and to endow a Center for the Study 
of Governance and a Center for Urban and 
Regional Development.
The funds, contributed by the H.J. Heinz 
Co., the Howard Heinz Endowment, H.J. 
Heinz II and U.S. Senator John Heinz, will 
be placed in an endowment and the interest 
will provide SUPAs research and faculty with 
approximately $240,000 a year.
U.S. Senator John Heinz III is a number 
of SUPAs Board of Visitors. His father, H.J. 
Heinz II, is an emeritus trustee of CarnegieMellon. The Howard Heinz Endowment 
makes grants in the fields of health, education, human services and the performing 
and visual arts to nonprofit organizations in 
Pennsylvania.
SUPA is the universitys center for research 
and teaching disciplines relating to public 
policy and management. The schools dean, 
Brian J.L. Berry, described the Heinz gifts 
as a clear vote of confidence on the quality 
and effectiveness of the school and Carnegie*- 
Mellon University.
The Heinz gifts are the largest contribu
tion to SUPA since Richard King Mellon 
gave $10 million to create the school in 1967. 
Dean Berry added, The very size of these 
gifts will enable SUPA to strengthen its pro
grams in governance and regional develop
ment.
Last August SUPA enrolled the largest 
class in its seventeen year history. This year 
they are planning to move into the main 
building of the newly acquired Bureau of * 
Mines complex adjoining the campus.

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 1986The TartanPage 5
Super Cray X-MP/48
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Dont look to do word processing or play 
Snipes on the new Cray X-MP/48. Super
computers are the most expensive and 
specialized computers available, and are 
viable only for certain functions. Their main 
task will be operations that require many 
complex calculations, operations impossible 
to do on regular computers.
CMU President Cyert outlined some of the 
specific uses for the X-MP/48. For example, 
it will be useful for cell problems in 
chemistry that require large numbers of 
calculations...It can be used for in
numerable problems in physics.
Engineers and physical scientists will not 
be the only users, however. Cyert noted that 
the Cray would be available to the Social 
Sciences also. It can deal with complex 
models at a rapid rate.
The Cray X-MP/48 is the most powerful 
supercomputer of its kind. Compared to the 
1-S CMU was originally supposed to get, the 
X-MP/48 is over five times as fast and can 
perform up to 840 million operations per se
cond. The key to the X-MP/48s speed is its 
four processors, compared to one for a 
regular computer. The machine will have 
a capacity of eight million words and will 
be equipped with a 128 million word storage 
facility.
Students fight MS on MTV
Carnegie Mellon along with 150 colleges 
from Hawaii to Maine to Miami will be out 
to bust MS. From Feb. first through March 
first, a fund-raiser known as Students against 
MS will be raising money to fight Multiple 
Scherosis. Carnegie Mellon will help by rais
ing money in Rock Alike.
Students are encouraged to dress up as 
their favorite rock artists and perform on 
March first. At the performance $1 counts 
as on vote. The person who raises the most 
money from the performance, and through 
any other way they get money donated in 
their name, will win a trip to the regional 
Rock-Off. The winner of that will go to New 
York with the winners of seven other regions 
to perform on MTV. The top winner will
receive an MTV summer internship, all ex
penses paid, and the runner-ups will win 
prizes. The school which raises the most 
money will get a free MTV rock concert, 
broadcast live on MTV.
We can win this and a representative of 
your group can be performing on MTV as 
we fight to Bust MS, a disease which af
fects the nervous system of young adults and 
causes anything from weak bladders to total 
paralysis. No one knows the cause or the cure 
for this disease but we do know that with 
money for research, both can be found.
Entry blanks can be picked up at Skibo 
Information Desk and a $25 entry fee is re
quired. If you have any questions call Rick 
Miller at x4016
Pilam helps telethon
In the early morning hours of January 19, 
The brothers of Pi Lambda Phi continued 
their support for the United Cerebral Palsy 
Telethon by manning the phones from 1:00 
to 8:00 a.m. Sunday. This year marked the 
fourth year in a row that Pilam has con
tributed to the telethon. In addition to supThere'snosuchthing.
A psychology major is now a hospital 
administrator.
A social science major is an epidemiologist (state 
health dept.).
A biochemistry major is an industrial hygienist 
(Meade Corp.).
A math major is a hospital radiation health 
officer.
A nursing major is a hospital infection control 
practitioner.
Biology majors are genetic associates, a 
legionella researcher, industrial hygienist (PPG), 
a health physicist (Con Ed).
Theyre all Class of 85University of Pittsburgh 
Graduate School of Public Health.
We specialize in guiding students from all academic 
backgrounds into public-health specialties tailored to 
their interests. For information about how to put your 
major to work, call Karen Peterson, 412/624-3002. Or 
write to her at 116 Parran Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTHUniversity of Pittsburgh
Minutes of the Student Senate
Minutes of the Student Senate, January 14,1986
Meeting calied to order 7:10.
Present: Appelbaum,Ayre, Bollinger, Cohen, Flynn, 
Giles, Greenberg A, Greenberg M, Hynes, Jagerski, 
Kaplan, Kornbrek.Lee, Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukher 
jee, Murphy, Noesen, Novak, Patnaik, Pianchettel, 
Rocher, Sheinfeld. Solomon, Taylor, Trampel, Welsh, 
Whysel, Lee K, Dean Cox, DeLeon, Chu.
Absent: Dean Walter.
Audience Participation: none.
Dean Cox: There is a meeting of the security com
mittee on March 5 which will look into all aspects of 
university security. Senate nominees are: Peter Cohen, 
Leanne Chu, Toby Ayre, and Cherie Jagerski.
IFC, SDC: no report.
Treasurer: Fred is preparing a Senate budget and 
reviewing the accounts of the clubs.
President: In the near future, Karen Lees efforts 
will be focused on the bookstore and its related pro
blems, the MS drive, and setting up a computer net
work which will set up a b-board of student activities
Chairman: Presently, there are vacancies on Student 
Senate. These vacancies are as follows: (1) in CIT,(2) 
in MCS, (3) in H&SS, and (1) in SUPA. Petitions for 
each seat are located at the Information Desk in Skibo.
Student Senate has regretfully accepted the resigna
tion of Seana Chun.
Academic Affairs: CFA Honors List will be up by 
February.
Students with problems with waitlists for classes can go 
to Academic Affairs Cindy Taylor with gripes.
Academic Affairs is bringing back a commendible 
teachers program which will pass on compliments from 
students to professors and administration.
The committee is working with the Faculty Senate 
on the cheating and plagiarism issue.
Campus Affairs: Members of the Campus Affairs 
Committee went to Dr. Rabin of the CMU Counseling 
Center to see if they could find better ways of reduc 
ing tension on campus. It was decided to form a com 
mittee of students and administration to suggest 
changes. A letter is being sent to all faculty members^ 
indicating this problem and asking them to be more 
open and responsive to students.
Peter Cohen and Leanne Chu met with the ad 
ministration last semester, to obtain extended shuttle 
and escort service for finals of Fall 85. There should 
be extended service for finals this semester.
Peter Cohen met with the director of Hunt library 
concerning study rooms for student use. He said that 
they should be opened by Feb. 1. S9.000.00 was 
allocated to keep the library open till 3am after Feb. 1.
Campus Affairs is following up on the horrible and 
unhealthy conditions in the printmaking labs of Doherty 
Hall.
The problem of students being hit by cars on 
Margaret Morrison St. was brought up to Campus Af
fairs. They are looking into this presently.
Public Relations & Human Resources: This 
weekend there will be a leadership retreat for all 
senators to establish a better working relationship within 
senate. The approximate cost of this retreat is S2000.00.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:15.
Larry and Carol's cited
porting the Weekend With the Stars 
Telethon, Pilam plans to hold a big bounce 
weekend at a later date in order to raise 
funds for the charity. Tentatively they plan 
to hold the big bounce on campus some Fri
day this spring and at Market Square on 
Saturday.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Contributing Editor
Larry and Carrols Pizza was recently fin
ed $1500 for unsanitary conditions by the 
District Court in Lawrenceville.
The Allegheny Health Department cited 
a criminal complaint against the Oakland 
pizzeria for scattered debris, no cover on the 
waste can in the Ladies room, and dirt on 
the floor in the sandwich preparation area, 
according to Allegheny Health Department 
official Guillermo Cole.
Larry and Carrols owner Dan Sturm 
denied those charges and said he is 
appealing the fine.
Someone is trying to hurt my business,
said Sturm. I got fined for having no hot 
water in the mens room and for four tomato 
cores on the sidewalk.
(Larry and Carrols) has had many oppor
tunities to correct the violations , said Cole. 
In June of 1985, the department cited the 
establishment on 13 counts of health stan
dard violations, but decided not to take legal 
action. On a return visit July 18, there were 
still six violations, according to Cole.
Sturm said that the number of inspections 
has increased to 10 to 15 times a year instead 
of the usual two, adding that he 
planned to bring in a different 
inspector to clear things up.
Sturm said he will appeal the fine in Com
mon Pleas Court before the next inspection.
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
PRICE REDUCTIONS!
The Prices of the following products have been reduced at the 
CMU Computer Store:
"Old Style IBM PC
- 64k Motherboard$650.00
Megamax C Compiler125.00
Wordmark125.00
OmniReader295.00
Mac Carrying Cases49.95
Sritek 68000 Coprocessor200.00
NEC Tractor Feed50.00
While Supplies Last!

---------------------------------------------------

g^ATsT
g The right choice.
Living together with someone for the first 
time can be an educational experience.
And living with a long distance company 
isnt any different. Because some companies 
may not give you all the services youre used to 
getting from AT&T.
For instance, with some companies you have 
to spend a certain amount before you qualify for 
their special volume discounts. With some 
others, voice quality may vary.
But when you choose AT&T, there wont be 
any surprises when you move in. Youll get the
same high-quality, trouble-free service youre 
used to.
With calls that sound as close as next door. 
Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day 
Rateso you can talk during the times you can 
relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. 
Operator assistance and collect calling.
So when youre asked to choose a long dis
tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether 
youre into Mozart or metal, quality is the one 
thing everyone can agree on.
Reach out and touch someone?
Choosing a long distance 
company is a lot like choosing 
a roommate.
Its better to know what theyre 
like before you move in.

---------------------------------------------------

Szechuan Gourmet
____________________Features.Apply for summer Internships now
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Internships theyve been around for cen
turies, but have only recently come into the 
limelight. Years ago apprentices worked 
under skilled craftsmen to learn a specific 
trade. Lately most people still associate 
internships with the medical profession. Yet 
internships are now largely available for all 
types of careers.
The basic purpose behind any internship 
program is to offer practical working ex
perience that can lead to future employ
ment. Internships also give students a 
chance to try out a profession before they 
choose to enter it. Employers benfit from in
ternship programs, too, since interns provide 
a relatively inexpensive form of labor.
One of the main reasons more students 
dont get involved with internships is because 
most programs offer non-salaried positions. 
However, many students are responding to 
competition for career positions with finan
cial sacrifices in return for the prospect of 
full-time future employment.
For students, internships are generally of
fered once each semester and during the 
summer months. If a position is nonsalaried, employers usually allow students to 
arrange for school credit. In addition, some 
programs offer stipends, transportation ex
penses, and housing. And for those in
terested in traveling, internships are 
available throughout Europe and around 
the world.
HOW TO APPLY:
Although internship listings can be found 
in internship books in the library and the 
book store, there are often more appropriate 
sources in the Career Placement office. For 
students interested in a specific field of work, 
information is sent to the appropriate 
departments. For instance, a student look
ing for a media-related internship in TV,
radio, journalism, etc, is better off obtain
ing a media internship listing from the 
English department, local libraries and out
side employment offices. And if that person 
knows what city he would like to work in, 
he can check telephone listings for related 
companies in that area. Very often a com
pany does not offer a formal internship pro
gram but is willing to hire a student who 
calls and shows an interest. It is advisable 
to call a company and inquire whether or 
not it offers a program. You dont want to 
waste your time sending letters and resumes
illustration by Dave Biber
out to places that dont hire interns. Most 
programs require a letter of interest, a copy 
of your resume, and an in-person interview.
Remember, most businesses hire summer 
interns during the winter, so watch for 
deadlines, they are creeping up soon,
ONCE YOU GET THE JOB
It is important to let your employer know 
your specific job objectives. Although you 
probably wont be working on projects of
major importance, you may benefit by sit
ting in on meetings and gaining exposure to 
whats going on. Whether you have an of
fice related internship, or a more creative in
ternship, your main goal should be to get in
volved. As the saying goes, youll get out of 
it what you put into it dont sit around 
waiting for the phone to ring. Walk around, 
ask questions, make yourself useful to other 
employees. If you are inquisitive and helpful, 
chances are youll learn alot while 
establishing good relationships with the 
other personnel. Treat the internship as 
though it were a real job many interns 
have been hired for permanent positions 
because of their performance as interns.
Prominent career advisor, Johnathan 
Schorr, suggests that some guidelines must 
be established in order to eliminate conflicts 
in expectations from the student to the 
employer. He advises that a written contract 
should be drawn up by the student and 
agreed upon by the employer to avoid pro
blems in communication. If you find that 
you are doing only clerical work or other 
menial tasks, make sure you speak up. 
Remember, you are there to learn 
something. Dont get used.
Interns usually have the edge over the 
competition when it comes to getting hired. 
As a position becomes vacant, employers 
turn to experienced interns to fill the spot. 
Some employers only hire graduating 
students who will be available for full-time 
positions after their internship is completed.
After the internship is over, be sure to ob
tain recommendations from your employer. 
If youre smart, youll have kept a record of 
your activities, or collected samples of your 
work to put into your portfolio. Either way, 
you should have something to show for you 
time and efforts.
Internships are available for every type of 
career whether youre a prospective scientist 
or a theater hopeful. Stop in to your depart
ments office and find out what type of op
portunities are there for you.
The place to go for hot and spicy Chinesefood
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Eating in a Chinese restaurant is often a 
frustrating experience; no matter how good 
the food is, you almost always feel hungry 
afterwards. However with unusually large 
portions, the Szechuan Gourmet just might 
make people change the way they think 
about Chinese food.
Located just off of Walnut Street in 
Shadyside, the Szechuan Gourmet is a cozy, 
quaint, and modest eating establishment. 
The atmosphere is simple; plain walls with 
Chinese artwork scattered along them, a 
tightly spaced eating area, and rather bor
ing seating arrangements. Although much 
is lacking as far as asthetic ambiance, it is 
made up for by the suberb food.
The menu at the Szechuan Gourmet is 
one of the most extensive and comprehen
sive in the area. There are over 125 main 
courses to choose from (there are 176 items 
in all) and virtually every category has eight 
or nine different selections.
 The menu lists eight soups, of which I 
sampled three. The Wonton Soup ($1.00) 
was served luke warm (as it should be) and 
had a very large and meaty wonton. Both 
the Egg Drop ($1.00) and the Hot and Sour 
($1.25) soups were extremly rich and hearty 
soups. Of the appetizers, I had the Pu-Pu 
Platter ($6.95 for two) consisting of spare 
ribs; meaty but a little on the sweet side, 
Shrimp Egg Rolls; excellent in taste but 
small on filling, Shrimp Toast; very tasty,
Beef Skewers; the best of the the platter 
when glazed with the sweet and sour sauce, 
and Wrapped Fried Chicken that was more 
aluminum than meat. All of these items can 
be purchased separately.
To most people, Chinese dining is considerd a team sport, with each member 
ordering something different and sharing. 
Since there were five in our party, the din
ner came in two stages. The first dishes to 
come were the Sweet and Sour Duck ($7.95), 
the Roast Pork Lo Mein ($4.95), and the 
Sizzling Rice and Shrimp ($8.95). All were 
delicious. The Sizzling Shrimp, coming from 
the Chefs Suggestions section, were the 
skimpy, frozen kind yet the fact that they 
were tiny went unnoticed because of the 
meticulous preparation, the delightful rice 
base and the scrumptous sauce which was 
handsomsly glazed over the dish. The Lo 
Mein was a mountain of noodles perfectly 
balanced with slightly seasoned pork, a very 
tasty choice. The best of first three entrees 
was the Duck, which came with an unusual
ly light and delicate sauce that was a perfect 
match with the complimentary rice. 
Although not a particularly healthy sized 
portion, the Duck was cooked until perfectly 
moist and soft in texture.
The second phase of these meals consisted 
of the Shredded Beef with Garlic sauce 
($7.50) and the Beef Chow Mein ($4.95). 
The menu decribes the Shredded Beef as 
Shredded Beef sauteed with black fungus, 
water chestnuts, celery in spicy garlic sauce,
I decribe it as delicious. It was a hearty ser
ving of beef surrounded by very intersting 
and contrasting flavors, the result was a dish 
of exceptional taste. The Chow Mein, our 
final selection, was rather routine in style 
and taste, and it lacked the zip that was so 
prevalent in the other dishes.
The Szechuan Gourmet does not offer 
flashy gimicks or outrageous entrees, instead 
it offers gigantic portions at very resonable 
prices  all delivered with the help of an ex
cellent service staff. Perhaps the best part 
of eating at the Szechuan Gormet is the fact 
that you will never have to order out for
f illustration by Mike McHugh
pizza afterwards.
The Szechuan Gourmet is located at 709 
Bellefonte Street in Shadyside. Lunch is serv
ed on Mon thru Fri 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 pm., 
dinner is serverd everyday from 5:00 p.m.. 
The restaurant honors most major credit 
cards. Call 683-1763for reservations or take 
out.
TARTAN RESTAURANT RATING? ???
Poor it Fair
Good ***_____Excellent

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
BGSO Salutes Martin Luther King
By ERICA MONIQUE QUIROZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Though it seems that in recent years the 
basic concern of fellow human beings for 
one another has been on the decline, the 
Carnegie Mellon Black Graduate Student 
Organization has shown its concern. With 
the aid of funds provided by President Cyert, 
the BGSO will be sponsoring an all day 
seminar entitled Race and Public Policy 
in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King. This 
seminar, to be held on January 25, 1986 in 
Skibo Hall, will voice its concerns in four 
discussion groups that are to be held that 
Saturday.
First on the discussion agenda is the issue
of the black family. Several of the topics to 
be discussed under that heading are: teenage 
pregnancy, male homocide, unemployment, 
and single parents.
The second topic will be the Polarization 
of the Races. Dr. Leon Haley, Executive 
director of the Pittsburgh Urban League and 
Harvey Adams, Executive Director of the 
Pittsburgh NAACP will be speaking on the 
topic.
Following these two discussions there will 
be a luncheon which will feature Dr. 
Thomas Shick from the University of 
Wisconsin. The theme of this luncheon will 
be The Life of King.
Immediately following will be the third 
discussion group headed by Dr. William
Dariety from the University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill. The topic will be 
Market vs. Non-Market Solutions to Black 
Inequality. Dr. Dariety will discuss economic 
solutions to problems concerning the black 
family and community.
The final speakers will be Dr. Samuel L. 
Myers, Sr. of the National Association for 
Equal Opportunity in Higher Education 
and Dr. Lucius Walker, Trustee of Carnegie 
Mellon University; they will be speaking 
about Desegregation in Higher Education 
A reception will follow.
The purpose of this seminar is a rather 
important one. It is to unite the 
communitynot having race as a factor to 
separate it. This problem shows itself clear
ly whenever there is a black candidate in
volved in an election. It is then that the races 
make a clear distinction and choose sides 
among themselves.
There are also many cases which bring the 
issue to light. When examined, they show 
that the causes come from both sides, not 
just one. If there is to be progress made here 
on the CMU campus and in the Pittsburgh 
area the races must come together. Race 
and Public Policy is providing the oppor
tunity for all members of all races to come 
together and discuss the issue.
If there are any questions concerning the 
seminar contact Sheila Ards at x2191 or 
321-3174 or contact Herald Scott at x2869. 
The BGSO extends its invitation to everyone.
Audition for Busch Gardens
PITTSBURGHTalent scouts from Busch The Pittsburgh auditions will be held singers, dancers, musicians and technicians age and be available for full-time seasonal
Gardens, The Dark Continent, in Tampa, 
Fla., will hold auditions here on Wednesday, 
Jan. 29, 1986 as part of the African-themed 
parks annual search for entertainers, techni
cians and stage managers for the 1986 
season.
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Hyatt Pitt
sburgh at Chatham Center, 112 Washington 
Place.
Joseph G. Peczi, Jr., entertainment direc
tor for Busch Entertainment Corporation', 
and his staff are looking for talented young
for the parks variety of shows, which include 
a contemporary musical revue and a varie
ty of other acts inspired by popular music 
styles, ranging from German polkas to coun
try and western ballads.
Performers should be at least 18 years of
TRW Inc 1985. TRW is the 
name and matk of TRW Inc.
The Right Turn
We will be on campus 
February 5. 
Please see your place
ment officer for details.
It's not always possible to know 
which path leads to a better 
future. That's why TRW's 
Electronics and Defense Sector 
offers you the freedom to move 
among a wide variety of oppor
tunities in microelectronics, high 
energy lasers, large software 
systems, communications, and 
scientific spacecraft. At TRW, 
your first choice can multiply 
into many choices.
Who knows where your career 
can take you? We can only 
promise you'll be challenged to 
explore tomorrow's technology.
Whichever way you turn. 
Tomorrow is taking shape at a 
company called TRW.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
employment. Audition presentations should 
be limited to three minutes, but performers 
should be prepared to present additional 
material upon request.
The auditions are conducted on a firstcome, first-served basis. Call-back auditions, 
required for some shows, will be during the 
final hour of the scheduled audition.
Singers should prepare two songs, one 
ballad-style and one up-tempo song, and * 
bring along sheet music in their best key. An 
accompanist will be available for singers who 
bring sheet music. Recorded music is allow
ed if performers bring their own cassette 
tapes.
Dancers should wear comfortable dance 
clothing and be ready to perform a dance 
routine demonstrating their most proficient 
style. Musicians should bring their in
struments and be ready to demonstrate 
sight-reading ability and play one prepared 
selection per instrument.
Technicians should bring a resume of 
technical experience and two letters of work 
recommendation.
Busch Gardens is a 300-acre Africanthemed family entertainment center offer
ing rides, shows, shops and restaurants. The 
park is located at 3000 Busch Blvd. in Tam
pa, eight miles northeast of downtown and 
two miles east of Interstate 75.
For further information about the audi
tions, call the Busch Gardens entertainment 
department at 813/988-5171, ext. 302.
Electronics 
& Defense Sector
$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86 
Regular $14-16
Lewis STiC-.*
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside
682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 1986The TartanPage 9Suffering from stress? Try Tai Chi
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Chinese massage therapy deals with 
anyone who suffers from aches and pains, 
such as shoulder aches, low back pains, and 
stiff joints. While Americans usually go to 
Chiropractors for treatment of such 
ailments, expert Bob Baoboling Lin, feels 
that Chiropractors do more harm than good 
because they re-adjust the vertebrae. While 
Chiropractors have been practicing for 90 
years in this country, massage therapy has 
been practiced for over 2,000 years in China.
As Mr. Lin is almost the only traditional 
massage therapist in Pittsburgh, his services 
are in great demand. He intends to bring his 
therapy to the greater Pittsburgh area, so the 
art of healing will eventually benefit more 
people.
According to Bob Lin, the difference bet
ween Chinese massage therapy and, say, 
Swedish massage is that the Chinese aim at 
treating aches, pains, and injury, while 
the others massage for relaxation and 
entertainment.
In China almost 98% of therapy is 
done by massage, without medicine or doc
tors. The only massage parlors in China are 
the ones set up for the pleasure of American 
tourists. The real purpose of massage in 
China is for healing. Even in China there are 
very few trained specialists in massage therpy. This is because massages require vigorous 
work and are very strenuous on the 
masseuse.
Bob Lin also specializes in a form of 
Chinese exercise called Tai Chi Chaun, pro
nounced (Ti-jee-chaun). Tai Chi has been 
around in China for over 350 years. There 
is no big school to teach Tai Chi in China; 
students learn from master teachers. Tai Chi 
is for those who do not like strenuous exer
cise like basketball, tennis, and football. Tai 
Chi is meant to be gentle and graceful.
Tai Chi combines three techniques in one:
1. High Concentration:
Students are asked to discard all other 
thoughts while performing Tai Chi. They 
must concentrate on exact movements and 
prevent intruding thoughts. They are not 
supposed to talk or look at anythingeyes; 
always follow the hands as they move.
2. Fluid Movement of Body
Nonstop movement from beginning to end 
is the key to Tai Chis aerobic benefits. The 
highly rythmic movement, timed in equal 
proportions is done to music. The exercise 
is very soothing to the heart.
3. Deep Breathing
Breathing coordinated with movement is 
intended to circulate oxygen throughout all 
parts of the body. Unlike most other aerobic 
exercises, Tai Chi allows time for the air to 
penetrate.
After doing Tai Chi one feels as though 
he has taken a short nap. The mind is 
refreshed and rested. Tai Chi is particularly 
geared to those who work with their brains, 
such as teachers, students, doctors and 
technicians, since it makes people feel inI
Jan. 24 & 25 at 8:00pm 
Jan. 26 at 2:00pm
Eddy Theatre on the 
Chatham College Campus
Tickets $9.00 
361-4414
vigorated and re energized. For instance, a 
student can sit and study after Tai Chi's gen
tle exercise; he can concentrate im
mediately without needing a rest or a 
shower. Tai Chi only takes fifteen minutes to 
do , whereas, most other forms of exercise 
are time-consuming.
It is for precisely those reasons that CMUs 
Dean of Student Affairs hired Bob Lin to 
teach Tai Chi for the past two semesters. 
Dean Walters is deeply concerned that some 
students here are overworked, and he 
realizes the benefits of Tai Chi.
Tai Chi benefits the lungs by vast 
intake of fresh air. It also trains the muscles 
and joints. Persons who practice Tai Chi dai
ly will not get arthritis. As a result, legs are 
very sound, even in old age. Elder persons 
who have done Tai Chi are very flexible and 
highly mobile. In fact, Tai Chi helps persons 
achieve their goal of deterring aging for up 
to twenty years.
Mr. Lin said it is common for a 90 year 
old master of Tai Chi to walk as if he were 
a 50 year old man. Although a person cant
resist getting old -with Tai Chi he can put 
it off.
Since Tai Chi is an all-weather exercise, 
people cant use the excuse that its too cold 
outside to do it. Tai Chi requires no equip
ment and very little space. Millions of 
Chinese do it every day--first thing in the 
morning.
Mr. Lin will most likely continue to teach 
Tai Chi at CMU--watch for announcements. 
In the meantime if you are suffering from 
aches, pains, stiff muscles and joints, give 
Mr. Lin a call. He has a special discount rate 
of $8 for students--a nominal fee in com
parison to a Chiropractor.
Mr. Lin can be reached at 681-0355.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Bob Lin demonstrates the art of Tai Chi
Student and senior citizen discount 
Sunday only with ID
1 YourtrsLnuclear-trained officer. #glthe world, and it means working 
It go^Seyond special. Its elite! "rwith the most sophisticated training 
status reflects a job that ^ equipment anywhere, 
demands your best. Proving your^^F^ Theres no boot camp. College 
skills at the heart of todays nuclear^graduates get Officer Candidate
powered Navy.
Over half of Americas nuclear 
reactors are in the Navy. That adds 
up to more years of experience 
with reactors than any company in
School leadership training, and a 
year of graduate-level training in the 
Navy Nuclear Power School.
The rewards are topnotch, too. 
Generous bonuses upon eomrrussioning and also upon completion 
of nuclear training. Sign up while 
still in college and you could be 
earning $1,000 a month right now.
Be one, of the most accomplished 
professionals in a challenging field. 
Lead the adventure as an officer 
in the Nuclear Navy. Contact your 
Naw Officer Recruiter or call _ 
1-800-327-NAVY. = 
NAW & OFFICER
LEAD THE ADVENTURE

---------------------------------------------------

ScotolS
CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
*50
IN
681-2202 or 681-2203
s.-----
RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
SELECTION FOR 1986-87 
IS BEGINNINGEveryone's talking about 
them and they're talking 
about everyone. Listen in. 
You'll get an earful. You'll 
also laugh a lot at this 
comic attack on the 
uppercrust.
Student/Senior Citizen 
Rate: $5Ask about $10 package for The 
Women and Samba, a new 
musical.
Box Office: 268-2407
College of Fine Arts Tickets also available at Skibo Information Desk
Another Exciting Carnegie Mellon Drama Department 
Production
The selection of the Resident Assistant 
Staff for the 1986-87 academic year 
will begin with the interest sessions on
Tuesday, January 21st 
Wednesday, January 22nd
9:00 p.m.
in
The Wherrett Room
All interested students are 
encouraged to attend.
You must attend one of these sessions in 
order to apply.
8 p.m.
Feb. 12-15, 19-22
2 p.m.
Feb. 15 and 22(Artists' Forum follows Feb. 15 performance.)
Kresge Theatre College of Fine Arts

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Staffwriter
Athol Fugards award winning play Master 
Harold. . . and the boys opened on Wednes
day, January 15 at the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater. The play has won both the Drama 
Desk and Outer Critics Circle award for Best 
Play of 1982 and there is little wonder why.
The entire play takes place in a setting 
which is subtle and deceptively innocent; a 
rainy afternoon in a faded tea room. The 
place is Port Elizabeth, South Africa, the 
year is 1950. The audience quietly relaxes 
in the surroundings unaware of the storm 
that is coming.
Fugard, a South African playwright, uses 
this scene as a forum to deal with the issue 
of racism. However, the author does so 
without sentimentality, attitude, or lectur
ing to the audience. Though the play takes 
place in South Africa the word apartheid is 
never mentioned and the South African
references are minimal. Fugards strategy is 
simple. Master Harold is meant to go beyond 
the confines of any one nation. By cir
cumstances, both funny and tragic, Fugard 
strips away the facades of his characters and 
allows their emotions to stand alone for the 
audience to behold.
The play opens with two black waiters, 
Sam and Willie, ritualistically cleaning up 
the restaurant. They casually talk about an 
upcoming ballroom dancing contest. Here 
is introduced the pervading metaphor of life 
as a dance. The two men are joined by Hally (the titles Harold) the son of the tea rooms 
owner. Hally is a precocious white prepschool student on the verge of manhood. 
The black servants are the boys second fami
ly. They have been employed by the boys 
family since he was in short trousers. But, 
for all the tender memories they share that 
unite master and servants there remains a 
distance in their relationships. Hally con
descendingly refers to their ballroom danc
ing as simple minded and a reflection of 
the culture of primitive black society only 
now the war dance has been replaced by 
the waltz. It is Sam, however, who tries to 
teach Hally otherwise. Sam tells the boy that 
ballroom dancing is like being in a dream 
about a world where accidents dont happen 
and where people, white and black, men 
and women, rich and poor dont bump into 
one another. Hally innocently adds the 
United Nations is like a dancing school for 
politicians and that maybe there is hope 
for mankind after all. Here the play exudes 
with warmth, charm and innocence.
Unfortunately, growing up is not easy, 
lessons are sometimes short lived, and in
nocence is quickly lost. A tense scene where 
Hally learns of his fathers return from the 
hospital evoking conflicting feelings of love 
and resentment towards his father, a cripplcontinued on page 12
CMU Music Recital
PITTSBURGHTimothy Tigges, a 
former student in Carnegie Mellon Univer
sitys Music Department, will perform in a 
trio at the Music Department Convocation, 
at 12:30 p.m., Thursday, Jan. 23, in the 
Alumni Concert Hall in Carnegie Mellons 
College of Fine Arts. The program is free 
and open to the public.
Tigges, a cellist, is part of the NiyyaOtaki-Tigges Trio. Other members are 
violinist Reiko Niyya-Tigges and pianist 
Michiko Otaki. The trio will play works by 
Haydn, Shostakovich, and Mendelssohn.
Tigges is assistant principal cello with the 
Greater Palm Beach Symphony Orchestra. 
He appears with the Napels-Marco Philhar
monic and the Florida West Coast Sym
phony Orchestra and teaches cello at Edison 
Community College in Ft. Myers, FI.
Texas Style Raunch 'n' Roll at Mosque
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Stevie Ray Vaughan has only been in the 
national music spotlight for four years, but 
his inexperience has not stopped him from 
becoming one of the hottest guitarists of his 
generation. Along with his band, Double 
Trouble, Vaughan has catapulted himself in
to a realm of stardom that eludes all but the 
very best. His unique sounds of raunchy n 
roll backed by a solid foundation of rythmn 
and blues, are becoming increasingly 
popular on the air waves as well as the con
cert arenas. And on this Friday, Vaughan 
will rock Pittsburgh at the Syria Mosque.
Promoting his newest release, Soul to Soul, 
Vaughan will bring with him the blistering 
hot sounds of his Stratocaster as well as few 
new and exciting additions. Soul to Soul is 
Stevie Rays third album, and it is his best 
to date.
Stevie Ray grew up in Dallas learning 
guitar from his older brother Jimmie 
Vaughan of the Fabulous Thunderbirds, 
who will open for Vaughan on Friday. Lear
ning by ear while listening to his brothers 
blues records, Vaughan soon developed in
to an excellent blues artist. After dropping 
out of high school, Vaughan recruited bassist 
Tommy Shannon and drummer Chris 
Layton and formed Double Trouble.
Playing in clubs all over Texas, Vaughan 
became one of the hottest acts in the Lone 
Star State. Stevie Ray packed his bags and 
took his act on the road with very little na
tional status. When he played at the 1982 
Montreux festival, Vaughan attracted the at
tention of David Bowie who immediately 
signed him to play lead guitar on his album 
Lets Dance. Jackson Browne also saw the 
potential of Stevie Ray and gave him free use 
of his recording studio in Los Angeles. 
Recording Texas Flood in only a single week, 
Vaughan finally had all the tools necessary 
for national stardom.
The album sold over a quarter of a 
million copies, and Vaughan began to get 
a lot of airplay and started to tour all over 
the country. Opening for the Police, Moody 
Blues, and Men at Work, Vaughan got the 
exposure his justly deserved. His success was 
not limited to vinyl and the stage, he also 
received two Grammy Awards in 1984 for 
Best Traditional Blues Recording and 
Best Rock Instrumental. In addition, 
'Vaughan topped the 1983 Guitar Player 
Readers Poll in the categories of Best New 
Talent, Best Electric Blues Guitarist, and 
Best Blues Album.
The trio went back to the studio to record 
Couldnt Stand The Weather. The record 
sold a half million copies, and even cracked
Stevie Ray Vaughan headlines at the Syria Mosque
the Top 20 charts. The LP not only 
displayed the R&B talents of Vaughan, but 
also experimented in the rock field, especial
ly on his rendition of Jimi Hendrixs Voodoo 
Chile, and more subtle in a jazz mode on 
Stangs Swang. Since the album was met 
with rave reviews and widespread airplay, 
Vaughan proved that various styles of music 
not considered commercial could have 
mass appeal when presented by a dynamic 
performer with a high profile.
As with his previous album, Stevie self
produced Soul to Soul. It is apparent 
through the much more refined blend of his 
fierce guitar attacks with the rest of the band 
that Stevie has progressed musically since his 
previous efforts. The most striking difference 
between Soul to Soul and his previous 
releases is the superior balance in sound that 
the newly keyboard and keyboardist Reese 
Wynans has brought to the band. The ad
dition of the keyboard not only serves to 
balance out the sound texture, but also it 
adds a new musical dimension that was not 
possible beforehand. The piano on Hank 
Ballards Look At Little Sister and on the 
hit single Say What gives the band that ex
tra range of notes that really enhances the 
sound.
The album also features a few songs writ
ten by Vaughan. The ballads Life Without 
You and Aint Gone N Give Up On 
Love,and the blues shuffle called Empty 
Arms, all display a more lyrical side to 
Vaughan that is seldom heard above the 
high-powered guitar licks. Although 
Vaughan still is considered a guitarist first, 
the highly developed song writing in Soul to 
Soul is very impressive in its authority. If 
Stevie Ray continues to progress musically 
at such a feverish pace, there is no telling 
just how high he may reach.
In this music video filled culture, it is nice 
to see that there are some people out there 
who still appreciate tradition. However, it 
is not just this element of nostalgic freshness 
that sets Stevie Ray Vaughan apart from the 
rest, but rather his intense dedication, hard 
work, and vast amounts talent all add up 
to make him one the greatest performers 
around.
Stevie Ray Vaughan and The Fabulous 
Thunderbirds will appear at the Syria Mos
que on Friday, January 24 at 7:30 p. m. 
Tickets are now on sale at the Syria Mosque 
box office, National Record Mart and Oasis 
Record and Tape locations or charge them 
with Visa or Mastercard by calling 621-3333.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre Presents
Celebrating 
the Tomato
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Senior industrial designer Virginia 
Tormey designed the gallery space for Heinz 
Celebrates the Tomato, showing at the Pitt
sburgh Center for the Arts, on Fifth Avenue 
in Shadyside.
The artworks comprising the Tomato ex
hibit were all commissioned or found by the 
H.J. Heinz Company which, the number 
57 not withstanding, manufactures over 
five hundred products using tomatoes. The 
works are a part of the Heinz corporate col
lection and are usually to be found in their 
corporate headquarters.
The centerpiece of the exhibit is a 
sculpture by Yukio Mishima, painstakingly 
carved out of wood; its combination of size 
and delicacy is impressive. Glass artist Dale 
Chihuly, who was at CMU last year for the 
glass lecture series, also has a series of tomato 
colored pieces. Ralph Goings and Red 
Grooms show tomato gouaches; Louisa Matthiasdottir, Janet Fish and Jay Phillips pre
sent paintings; Nancy Lawton, a drawing; 
Joel Meyerowitz, a photograph; Sonja Tarnay and Karen McCall, a quilt. Alan Siegel 
shows an enormous painted and incised 
chair, called Big Boy.
An exhibition this diverse and distinguish
ed presented some difficult design problems 
for Ms. Tormey, who had to be careful 
about the order in which viewers walked 
through the gallery and the relations of each 
piece with the others. Her solution to the 
problem of many pieces in a fairly small 
room was to put up some partitions so that 
viewers would see things one at a time, and 
in a certain traffic pattern.
Ms. Tormey called gallery design a cross 
between interior and architectural design. 
You take the essence of the design you know 
and apply it. Industrial design is a matter 
of interface and ergonomics, but this design 
has interface because people react with the 
art as they walk through.
Heinz Celebrates the Tomato will be at 
the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts through 
January 26. Gallery hours are TuesdaySaturday, 10-5; Sunday, 1-5; closed Monday. 
Jodi Fedoris, Margaret Pak and Rick Smith, 
three senior art students, will be showing 
their work at the Forbes Gallery through 
Sunday, January 26. The show opens tonight 
at 7 PM; refreshments are served and the 
public is invited.
Jodi Fedoris is showing two paintings in 
acrylic, three prints, and some illustrations. 
Her paintings both use people and birds; in 
one a person is transformed into a bird. Her 
silkscreen prints, which use crayon technicontinued on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
 file fdtf l onitw ton Settings Autopilot Special
I he Source
Cat) Progress
Listening for 
dial tone.Last error u*a*
Now dialing: 
523-0854
Number Of Retriev I
Waiting for: 
The Source( U>!ry ] ( cantei J
Master Harold and the
continued from page 11
ed alcoholic. These feelings cause Hally to 
remember bitter memories of his childhood. 
Immersed in self pity, Hally strikes at his 
surrogate father Sam, the only safe" target 
around. Hally humiliates the man he loves 
by insisting that he rightfully call him Master 
Harold, by mocking their years of friend
ship, by literally spitting in Sam's face. The 
scene is positively riveting. Sam tries to help 
Hally realize the result of his actions, that 
he is hurting himself. Sam tries to stop Hal
ly before he passes into the invulnerable 
world of maturity. Fugards point becomes 
evident - before we can practice compassion, 
before we can, as Sam puts it, dance life 
like champions - we must learn to respect 
ourselves. It is Hallys self-hatred that leads 
him to strike at Sam and his father. In a 
sense, the boy is typical of anyone who at
tacks the defenseless to add to his own self
esteem. Sam tries to teach Hally the steps 
of life* but the circumstances that surround 
them prevent him. Fugard suggests that if 
a man such as Sam fails with his single pupil 
then the idea of racial equality is 
unattainable.
Mr. Fugards strategies really work in this 
play. Without lecturing about racism he
casts light on it at its source. By exposing 
the hidden feelings of his characters he 
makes a statement about compassion, 
hatred, and self-worth. Fugard has struc
tured his 85 minute (no intermission) play 
much in the same way that Sam describes 
a dance contest: a relaxed atmosphere 
changes to one of tension and drama as the 
climax approaches.
The innocent Hally is played by J. Mark 
Diamond, though perhaps not innocently 
enough. I kept having the feeling that Hal
ly should have been more likable from the 
start. It would have made the transition of 
the character more pronounced. Robert 
Jason as Willie is excellent, conveying the 
characters simplicity and his charm. But, 
far and away, the real star of the play is 
William Jay who plays Sam. Mr. Jay plays 
Sam with compassion and understanding, 
though not without a sense of pride and 
spirit. Larry Arrick provides tight direction 
to the play and lets the script and the 
characters shine. The show runs at the Pitt
sburgh Public theater through February 9. 
Master Harold is theater at its best.
Operatic Orgasms
Music is more thrilling than sex to college 
students majoring in music, according to a 
survey by a Stanford University researcher. 
The study, published in the December issue 
of Psychology Today, found that 86% of the 
music majors questioned reported getting 
thrills from music, while only 70% felt the 
same way about sex. Respondents also found 
a good movie, beauty in nature and art, 
physical contact with another person and a 
climactic moment in an opera more thrill
ing than sex.
Art Line
Five Points of View from Pennsylvania. An ex
hibition of works by five Pennsylvania artists who 
each use different mediums ranging from glassand-steel sculpture to oil on canvas. The 51 piece 
show runs through Jan. 26 at the Carnegie-Mellon 
Art Gallery, 407 South Craig St. Hours are, 
Tuesday-Friday from 10 am to 5 pm, Saturday
11 am to 5 pm, and Sunday 1 to 4 pm.
Oil Paintings by Susanne Slavick, associate pro
fessor of art at CMU. This is Slavicks first Pitt
sburgh exhibition, and runs through Jan. 30 at 
Hewlett Gallery, 1st floor of College of Fine Arts. 
The gallery is free and open to the public, and 
hours are Tuesday-Friday 11 am to 4 pm, Satur
day noon to 4 pm, and Sunday 1 to 4pm.
Canadian Artwork will be on exhibit at PPG 
Place, Downtown. The collection consists of con
temporary sculptures from the Canada Council 
Art Bank. It runs through Feb. 5., 9 am to 9 pm 
daily.
Collectors Quality Posters From the 1950s, 
1960's , and 1970s will be on display at the Mar
cus Gordon Gallery, 416 S. Craig St. through Jan. 
30th. 11:30 to 5:30 Monday through Saturday and 
until 8:00 Thursday evening.
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute.
Selected works by Teddy Dibble - Video 
Gallery, through Feb. 2.
Politics in Film Series, Fridays at 8 pm in the 
Museum of Art Theatre.
Milos Forman Series, Saturdays at 8 pm.
Nuts, by Tom Topor. Courtroom melodrama put 
on by City Theatre Company, South Bouquet & 
Sennott in Oakland. Showtimes are Thursday, 
Friday, & Saturday at 8 pm and Sundays 2 pm 
and 7 pm through Feb. 16.
How to break into the library
Its the middle of the night. You're working on 
your paper, Identifying Kaikaesque Symbolism In 
the Film,Forkys II: The Next Day. You have no idea 
who Kafka is. You need information. Your library7 is 
closed. YouII get an EYou are depressed.
Dont be.
Because with a Macintoshand an Apple* 
Modem, vou can access databanks and receive
information worldwide. Not to mention scour the 
Library of Congress at 3 am.
Which just goes to show, Macintosh helps 
students work smarter, quicker and more creatively. 
And the beauty of Macintosh is, you dont have to 
know diddley about computers to use one. ~JL 
So get a Macintosh. And head 
straight for the library.
 WK Apple Gmiputf, I'm Ap|ilt ami tit Apple ktfji are re^isietwl trademarks of .Apple Gmiputer. Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh Liboratory. Inc. and is being used with its express permission
V W -V /
- V. V\ J i, _
illustration by John Gray
--

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 1986The TartanPage 13
Comic Andy Andrews iaughs it up in the Wherrett Room
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Comedy is a wonderful thing. The 
freedom and unity it affords are immensely 
gratifying for both performer and partaker. 
So imagine the wonderfulness of a comedian 
who is wonderful as a person. Those of us
* in the Wherrett Room on Friday evening
* dont have to imagine anymore; we partook 
of the wonderfulness of Andy Andrews.
Andy Andrews was a pure, real comedian. 
He even explained what his job as a come
dian is: Im the one who thinks up all the 
weird stuff. This daring employment in
volves going through life and picking out the 
funny things, stringing them together, and 
reporting them to us. And Andrews did it 
simply and cleanly, unlike too many of his 
co-workers. He was entirely respectable
* onstage and off, like a hometown boy whom 
you cant help but trust, with a knack for 
catching people where they are funny. He 
was straightforward and realistic, with a 
wonderful Southern accent and a sincere at
titude (and yes, friends, searing blue eyes). 
He let the audience relax and laugh at the 
footnotes of his life.
Some of his footnotes included observa
tions from some of the over seventy cruise -
ship bookings he has had. He told us that 
people actually ask him, Do the performers 
sleep on the ship, too? Andrews also told 
us how to get even with the McMoron 
behind the speaker at McDonalds drivethrough windows. And perhaps the most 
wonderful thing was this: he let us laugh 
directly at him. At one point in the perfor
mance, he said, I know what you all want, 
and then teasingly removed his shirt. He was 
obviously no football player. The people in 
his audience who laughed at his body were 
part of the joke. The real punch line was the 
fact that he was willing to let us find the 
humor that he found in his own physique, 
or lack thereof. And as most people should 
know, the first step towards comedy is the 
ability to step back and laugh at yourself.
As a professional comedian, Andrews has 
had an impressive yet typical background. 
His credits include opening for Chaka Khan, 
Alabama, and Joan Rivers, and headlining 
acts on the aforementioned cruise ships, 
where the average age is deceased. He also 
wrote for Saturday Night Live at the very 
end of the old shows, i.e., the late Lome 
Michaels era I . . . way back when it was still 
a wonderful show. That was before he was 
even out of college. The former writer
agreed that the new shows, i.e., the early 
Lorne Michaels era II, are crashing violently, 
and for the same reasons that most of us 
have observed: too much accent on shock 
value and poor writing; a combination of 
which can be deadly. Also, Andrews feels 
that because comedy in general is now ten
ding towards the conservative side, radical 
SNL simply doesnt go over well.
But that was Andy Andrews past. Andy 
Andrews present is full of tours...college 
tours (hes among the top three most 
popular campus performers), concert open
ings, and more cruise-ship headliners. He 
performs on the cruise ship Norwegian, 
which happens to be the biggest cruise ship 
in the world. And as for future wonder
fulness, Andrews hopes to someday have a 
bigtime staff of writers; I would enjoy get
ting the input of other people. In truth, 
comedy cant be just one persons point of 
view; everyone has to agree on where the 
humor is.
Hardly anyone in Andrews SRO crowd 
disagreed with him. He talked freely with 
people in the audience, rolling the act right 
along with what they said. He was obvious
ly very relaxed and comfortable, and said 
afterwards that hopefully bv the end of the
show, Ive made a lot of friends. He loves 
to perform comedy, and for this reason, 
logically, he has made a life of it. I dont 
think theres a more instantly rewarding form 
of the arts, because you get instant, im
mediate feedback on how they feel about 
what youre saying. And theres nothing that 
can make you feel better than that audience 
going nuts. Its definitely something that 
anyone who has any idea that theyre funny 
should try, Andrews advised.
The feedback from the CMU audience 
was overwhelmingly positive, and Andrews 
said that he was delighted to find the group 
to be so sharp and intelligent. He was hap
py to talk to people before and after the 
show. Which included a name-dropping ses
sion with magician/comedian Sam Simon, 
who opened for Yakov Smirnoff in an AB 
Coffeehouse show last semester. Future Ac
tivities Board events are Electric Zoot Suit, 
Jeff Justice, and others.
This months performer said that the AB 
members were very professional, and he ap
preciated that. Inside and out, it was a suc
cessful show, to say the least. Everyone who 
was involved with any part of the show would 
agree that Andy Andrews is wonderfully 
wonderful._______________________________
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
This year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science  goal-oriented, highperformance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processing, Radar Systems, Embedded
. In Concert...
By DAVE FERNBACHER
Tartan Staffwriter
Dickey Betts, lead guitarist for the seminal 
Southern rock band the Allman Brothers, 
will make a solo appearance at Graffiti, this 
Friday at 8 p.m.
Betts, whose lead and slide guitar work for 
the Allman Brothers helped distinguish him 
from the hoi polloi of rock guitarists, wrote 
and provided vocals for such Allman
# Brothers standards as Blue Sky and their 
1973 no. 2 hit Ramblin Man. His adap
tability to the Allmans free-form improvisational jams enabled him to contribute the 
classic instrumentals Jessica and In the 
Memory of Elizabeth Reed.
Betts first involvement with the Allmans 
was in the Second Coming when Gregg 
Allman joined as keyboardist. The Second 
Coming also boasted future Allman bassist 
Berry Oakley. Greggs brother Duane 
assembled Betts, Oakley, and Gregg, along 
Vith drummers Jaimoe Johanny Johanson
- and Butch Trucks, into the Allman Brothers 
Band upon landing a solo contract. Their 
critically acclaimed eponymous debut 
album, hybridizing country blues, and 
R&B, defined Southern rock, and paved the 
way for a host of Southern rock bands in the 
70s, including Lynyrd Skynyrd and the Mar
shall Tucker Band. Subsequent Allman 
albums (Idleuild South, Eat a Peach, and
3 rot hers and Sisters) established them as the 
quintessential Southern rock band.
* In 1974, amid growing dissension with 
Gregg Allman over musical direction, Betts 
recorded his first album, Highway Call.
Betts formed Great Southern in 1976, 
during an Allman Brother hiatus. Great 
Southern, employing the Allmans 
trademark dual drummers and guitarists, 
recorded a number of albums, among them 
Dickey Betts and Great Southern (1977) and 
Atlantas Burning Down (1978). Great 
Southern sported future Brothers Dan Toler
 and Rook Goldflies.
In 1978, Betts and Gregg Allman reform
ed the Allman Brothers Band, releasing the 
gold Enlightened Rogues (1979), Reach for 
the Sky (1980), and Brothers of the Road 
(1981).
Betts has recently released a solo album, 
and currently resides in Nashville. There he 
works as a session guitarist, and has perform
ed for such country greats as Waylon Jenn
ings and Hank Williams, Jr.
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
An Equal Opportunity Employer1 U.S. Citizenship Required
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATES
January 29 & 30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
Gershwin and Sing Along With Mitch at Heinz Hall
By ADORA PHILLIPS
Tartan Staffwriter
The All Americans, fourth in a series of 
concerts presented by the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Pops, brought Mitch Miller and Gail 
Nelson to Heinz Hall on January 17, 19, and 
20. Miller conducted a program filled with 
selections by great American names in the 
field of classical and pops music.
Friday nights performance opened with 
a greeting from Mitch Miller and started 
with a piece by Gould called American 
Salute. Based on the melody, When Johnny 
Comes Marching Home Again, this piece 
began with a slow, ominous rumbling, pick
ed up tempo and excitement, and conclud
ed with a somewhat melancholy rumbling 
of percussions. The audience was carried 
quickly from the Civil War to the Western 
Frontier with the next selection by Grofe, On 
the Trail from Grand Canyon Suite. In
cluding lovely flute and violin solos, sounds 
of braying and clod-hopping animals, I 
could easily imagine donkeys threading their 
ways through mountainous paths; it 
presented a breath of the excitement and an
ticipation which accompanied the westward 
expansion--but only a breath.
This choppy piece was followed by the 
sweeping and elegant Slow Dance by 
Wilder, a melody written before 1940, a 
touch of classical and jazz whose notes and 
reminders haunted the men who went to 
Europe in 1940- shortly after it was written. 
Wilders nostalgic melody was an odd con
trast to Aaron Coplands Hoe-Down from 
Rodeo, a spirited ballet depicting the 
Western frontier. The first half of The AllAmericans concluded with the Harold 
Arlen Songbook, arranged by Miller. Includ
ed were fragments of songs such as Get Hap
py, Lets Fall in Love, Paper Moon, Blues 
in the Night, That Old Black Magic, Stor
my Weather, and I Love a Paradise.
Luckily, each of the five arrangements in 
the first half of the concert were brief. They 
moved quickly, which made up for the lack 
of energy and color with which they were 
presented. Mitch Miller and the orchestra 
seemed a little tired, as though it was beyond 
their capacity to present such a kaleidoscope 
of American history--from the Civil War to 
the taming of the west and World War IIthrough the music twentieth century 
composers.
Following a brief intermission, there was 
a delightful arrangement of Gershwin pieces 
sung by soloist Gail Nelson. From Gershwins 
Girl Crazy was But Not for Me, Embraceable 
You, Im Biding my Time, and I Got 
Rhythm. From Funny Face was He Loves 
and She Loves, My One and Only, Its Time 
You Woke Up, and SWonderful, and from 
Strike Up the Band Nelson belted out the 
title song Strike Up the Band. If the first half 
of this Pops Concert lacked warmth and 
energy, Gail Nelsons voice and Mitch Millers 
obvious admiration of Gershwins talent was 
immediately apparent--not only through the 
choice of arrangement and Millers fond 
comments before the medley began, but also 
because of his gentle direction. Considered 
one of the best interpreters of Gershwin, 
Miller toured with Gershwin in 1934 and 
played the original Porgy and Bess 
throughout its eight-week run on Broadway. 
He conducted the orchestra and directed 
Nelson with care and precision. Nelson is a 
versatile singer-actress equally at home in 
opera, Broadway and nightclubs. She con
tributed warmth and richness to some of 
these well-loved Gershwin hits, which cap
ture with vibrancy the excitement, hope and 
longing of the 1930s and 40s.
The audience, however, seemed to be an
ticipating the final presentation of the
evening--a sentimental sing-a-long arrang
ed by Mitch Miller. The air stirred with 
memory and regret as the audience drew in 
its breath and began to sing the first notes 
of Till We Meet Again. Miller also coaxed 
an already enthusiastic audience to sing TipToe Through the Tulips With Me, Hava 
Nageela, Pack Up Your Troubles, Moonlight 
and Roses, When the Saints Go Marching 
In, and Baby Face, concluding with a com
bination of Now Is The Hour and Good 
Night Sweetheart.
Although the concert moved quickly, and 
I left smiling, noting that those with balcony 
seats missed out on some of the spirit of the 
evening, I also left knowing that Mitch 
Miller had grown old. It was as though 
Miller and the rest of the audience looked 
to one another to revitalize a past which had 
slipped away long ago. Unfortunately, the 
experience was less vibrant than it might 
have been. Miller seemed a little tired, his 
jokes old. The sadness and longing which
brought many to Heinz Hall Friday evening 
was undermined by a touch of flippancy, 
forced gaeity, a failure to openly 
acknowledge that Pittsburgh and the rest of 
the world has changed since 1940- and peo
ple just wanted to remember for a moment 
how it used to be.
Movie Trivia
1.What film marks Steven Spielbergs professional 
debut?
2. What film featured the character Pussy Galore?
3.What role did Marlon Brando beat out Danny 
Thomas for?
4.Who was playing in his jazz band the night he 
copped two Oscars?
Answers
U3]]y (Cpooyii > 
3U09JU0J 0)l/ 
jiaSuifpjOQ z 
utjqiuy pa]DD voys ajnuiiu pz V I
continued from page 11
que combined with flat color, she calls Ex
pressive. A lot of it comes from my self por
traits. The illustrations are from three 
Grimms fairy tales. In addition, she will be 
showing some leaf studies, made of paper 
cutouts, which concentrate upon color and 
composition. The style is primitive, she 
says. I enjoy working with color, expressing 
my thoughts with color.
Margaret Paks paintings are primarily in 
shades of blue and orange, compositions 
which feature rounded, flowing shapes. Two 
of her paintings involve self portraits--the 
larger one with a cow--while another 
represents a tree with food sitting at the base. 
Where I come from, where I was raised-- 
Korea--has a lot to do with my paintings, 
she says. In addition to her paintings she is
also showing some illustration drawings.
Rick Smith is showing paintings, draw
ings, photographs, and illustrations. 
Although he describes his illustrations as 
lighthearted and not self examining, the 
rest of his work is largely composed of per
sonal images dealing with myself and how
I deal with the small village I grew up 
in.. .being now in a city and a more fast pac
ed life. One painting, a rural scene with an 
orange sky and blue hills, has the backs of 
road signs placed in the foreground. 
Another, showing a figure with six hands, 
an enormous red sweater, and a tiny, anx
ious face distorts the perspective slightly 
focusing into a corner; the windows of the 
room it depicts have a city scene on one side 
and a country landscape on the other.
THE STUDENT SENATE 
HAS 
SEVEN VACANT SEATS
Petitions available at Skibo information desk 
January 14-January 28. 
All activity fee-paying students eligible.
Funded by student activities fee
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
f CountWQ owd Dtcpm>r< OCalculus 
Piel, II, Ml
PH -126A
PhysicsPH - 126B
Chemistry*PH-225B
EngNshasa 
second language
BH - 135B
EconomicsPH-226B
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 235B

---------------------------------------------------

___________________________Sports,
Team 1-1 on week
Male hoopsters crush John Carroll; fall to Hiram
Lady Tartans impress home crowd; overpower Hiram
by JILL DORSON successful field goal attempt from Sooky. roll university sent its guests home with a Once again, possession belonged solely to
_ _ . i   u _i ...... .i ____ i no-one. but the Blue Streak iust seemed rnby JILL DORSON
Tartan Staffwriter
* Optimistic is still the word, according 
" to head coach Gerri Seidl, as her hoopsters 
played a tough game and emerged vic
torious, last Saturday, sending the Hiram 
College Terriers back to Ohio with a 63-49 
loss.
The Terriers opened the game with a 
quick six point run to stun the hosts, but 
Carnegie-Mellon answered with a pair of 
baskets from freshman Lisa Lightner and 
junior Valerie Sooky. The ball changed 
bands several times, until key baskets from 
^.captain Nancy Dilulio and freshman Aimee 
Reber tied the game at 12 apiece.
The hosts then dropped in 10 points to 
take the lead and never look back. The 
defense looked awesome as the Tartans were 
successful in virtually shutting down their 
guests outside game. Eight minutes ticked 
by in the middle of the stanza without a 
single Hiram tally.
The period closed with Carnegie-Mellon 
resting on a comfortable 11 point lead.
<i Scoring in the second half began with a
successful field goal attempt from Sooky. 
The hoopsters could almost taste the victory, 
as they kept a commanding lead throughout 
most of the half. With about nine minutes 
to go, however, the Terriers came alive to 
scare the Tartans and tie the contest.
Dilulio broke the tie with back-to-back 
fouls shots, while her teammates added to 
the score to re-take and secure the lead. The 
finish of the game was laden with fouls, for
cing several players on each side to take to 
the bench.
Despite the fouls, the Tartans had gained 
a big conference decision with the victory.
Three CMU players broke into the dou
ble figures during the contest. Freshman 
Beth Virgin led all scorers with 14 tallies, 
while classmate Lightner and Dilulio 
garnered 13 and 10 points, respectively.
Defensively, Lightner pulled down 14 re
bounds and freshman center Allison Guy 
came off the injured list, in her second ap
pearance of the season to grab 11 caroms.
Traveling to Cleveland, Ohio in search of 
a win, the Tartans returned empty-handed 
last Tuesday, as the Blue Streak of John CarSoccer players honored
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager 
I hree members of the 1985 CMU soccer 
team were honored by being named to na
tional and regional All-Star teams. Mid
fielders Charlie Lockhead was named to the 
i^CAA Division III second team, while Kevin 
iung an(j Alex Tomlinson were named to the 
-first and third All region (PA-NJ-DE) teams 
respectively.
Lockhead, a senior, set single-season Tar
tan records this year for most points (41) and 
goals (15). He finished the season second in 
the PAC in scoring. He lettered four years 
at CMU, where his lifetime totals stand at 
^ goals and 35 assists. Last year, he was an 
All Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware 
Election, and was named to the All-PAC
team, a honor he'has garnered all four years 
at CMU.
Also a four time All-PAC selection, 
defender Alex Tomlinson racked up four 
goals and five assists in helping coach Nick 
Gaudioso set a new CMU record for most 
wins in a season (12). Tomlinsons scoring 
tallies were good for 12th in the PAC and 5th 
on the team.
Besides being named to the All Penn
sylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware first 
team. Midfielder Kevin Jung set a new CMU 
record for assists with 18, in addition to his 
three goals Jung, the only member of the trio 
to be returning to CMU this fall, is a 
sophomore and a two-time first team AllRAC selection.
roll university sent its guests home with a 
78-59 loss.
At the outset, the two squads looked even
ly matched as possession changed repeated
ly before the hosts sank the first basket of 
the contest, almost two minutes into the 
game. Lisa Lightner tossed in the first two 
for the Tartans just seconds later.
Throughout the half, neither team seem
ed to dominate, though John Carroll did 
have several unanswered runs, giving them 
a comfortable nine-point lead at the close 
of the stanza.
The first two minutes of the second period 
resembled a shooting gallery more than a 
basketball game as each team committed 
numerous fouls, and consequently spent 
time at the line.
Once again, possession belonged solely to 
no-one, but the Blue Streak just seemed to 
outshoot its guests for the win.
Guard Valerie Sooky took the laurels for 
high-scorer with eight baskets, while Reber 
and Lightner contributed 15 and 14 tallies, 
respectively.
On the defensive end, Reber was busy 
under the boards with 13 caroms, and 
classmates Virgin and Lightner were close 
behind with a combined total of 16 
rebounds.
Despite the loss, coach Seidl sees her team 
working together well in an attempt to reach 
the goals set for each contest.
The hoopsters will be on the road in the 
upcoming week with tip-offs against Thiel 
and Geneva Colleges. Wednesday and Satur
day, respectively.
Timmons sparks hockey
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Ice Hockey Tartans had a big win last 
Saturday as they powered past West Virginia 
by a score of 9-4.
The game could be called The Greg 
Timmons Show, as the transfer student 
from Miami of Ohio had four and one 
assist. Timmons now has seven goals in three 
games, and is a great addition to the Tar
tan offense. Timmons did most ot the work 
on his goals all alone, as three of his four 
goals were solo. Timmons did have 
help from teammates John Barrett, Bob 
Koch, Sean McGinn, Don Heyse, and Mead 
Rudassill, as each tallied a goal in the game. 
For Rudassill, it was his first goal of the year.
Ron Bonnasso had another good game in 
goal for the Tartans, as he made good saves, 
and stopped many West Virginia shots. The
Tartans, had many more shots on 
goal, outshooting the Mountaineers 55-18. 
At the end of the first period, the Tartans 
had a big 3-0 lead, and extended it to 5-0
by the end of the second. The third period 
saw a lot of scoring, as each team tallied four 
goals, but Carnegie Mellon still had gained 
the victory.
The win was a big inspirational lift, since 
in their last game against Slippery Rock, the 
Tartans were shaky and did not skate well. 
Against the Mountaineers though, the Tar
tans were ready to play, as they clearly outskated West Virginia. This game also saw the 
return of Mike Halloran to the Tartan 
lineup, putting Carnegie-Mellon back at full 
strength for their upcoming game against 
Pitt. We outskated WVU, and outclassed 
them. They played a physical game to slow 
us down, and thats what we needed as a 
warm-up for Pitt. Pitt plays very fast and 
physical hockey, and were now ready for 
them, said Halloran.
Carnegie Mellon will play this Saturday 
against Pitt at Lakeview Ice Palace in Valen
cia, PA. The Tartans expect a good, physical 
game from the Panthers, and hooe to 
emerge victorious in their bieeest game of
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartans broke even in last weeks ac
tion, winning 64-58 over John Carroll 
University, but dropping a double overtime 
game 77-67 to Hiram.
The Tartans started the week with their 
win over John Carroll, as Hart Coleman led 
the Tartans with a game high 22 points, as 
well as 12 rebounds. Pete Cwalina also lended a hand with 13 points and nine rebounds. 
The defense was spear-headed by Tartan 
guard Dave Bart, as he held the Blue 
Streaks Craig Huffman to just nine points. 
Huffman is John Carrolls leading scorer 
averaging over 20 points per game.
The hoopsters have a perfect win record 
when shooting over fifty percent from the
* floor, and last Tuesdays game was no excep
tion. The offense was 52 percent from the 
floor, shooting 27 of 52.
The Tartans then moved on to face con
ference rival Hiram .last Saturday. This con
test was a key conference game, as the win
ner of the conference will be in the NCAA 
Division III playoffs.
Carnegie Mellon broke out on top early, 
holding a 26-16 lead at the half. Early in the 
second half, the Tartans moved out to a 
30-16 advantage, only to see it slip away. Tar
tan forward Pete Cwalina, 12 points, 14 re. bounds, was in foul trouble the whole game, 
as he picked up his fourth foul early in the 
second half.
Tartan coach Larry Anderson stated that 
the team played well until about five minutes
into the second half. He also commented on 
Dave Bart, who had his second outstanding 
defensive game in a row. Bart dropped in 19 
points for the Tartans, but was only 1 for 5 
from the foul line.
Shooting from the line killed us, as we 
[CMU] were cold from the line, and Hirams 
Rod Swartz was hot,' stated Anderson, 
Hirams Swartz had 11 points from the foul 
line in the second over-time alone. Swartz 
tallied 19 points in the second five minute 
over-time, and 38 for the game to put 
Carnegie Mellon away.
The game was tied at 48 after regulation, 
as a key basket by Hiram tied the score with 
1:20 left on the clock. The defenses tighten
ed and no points were scored in the last 
seconds of regulation. In the first overtime 
period, Cwalina fouled out for the Tartans, 
but Carnegie Mellon still hung to a two 
point lead. But with only four seconds left 
on the clock, Hiram hit a 25 foot jump shot 
to tie the game at 54 and force a second 
overtime. The second overtime was the Rod 
Swartz show, and Hiram coasted to a ten 
point win.
Hart Coleman led the Tartans with 20 
points and 14 rebounds, but it was not 
enough to push Carnegie Mellon to a win. 
Coach Anderson was pleased and disap
pointed* by the game, because to get wins 
on the road in this part of the season is 
critical. But Anderson still knows that the 
Tartans are in the thick of things, as they are 
still only one game behind in the conference 
standings.Hart Coleman slam dunks before the home crowdphoto by Andy Gillespie
mm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
T'!!!!**'
'/iivb
Poluszek resignsheads to Marshall University
first conference golf championship in 1985. He earned his bachelors degree in
He was honored as Presidents Athletic Conphysical education at Alderson Broaddus
ference (PAC) Golf Coach-of-the-Year. College in 1961.
Intramural Report
PITTSBURGH Don Poluszek, defensive 
coordinator of Carnegie-Mellon Universitys 
football team since 1980, has resigned effec
tive Jan. 30 to become defensive coordinator 
at Marshall University in Huntington, 
W.Va., under head coach George Chaump. 
Poluszek will be replaced as defensive coor
dinator by Rich Lackner, previously CMUs 
offensive coordinator.
Under Poluszeks guidance CarnegieMellons defense finished the 1985 season 
ranked 12th in NCAA Division III scoring 
defense (9.6 points per game) and 18th in 
rushing defense (83.1 yards per game). In 
1983 the Tartans led the nation in scoring 
defense, allowing only 5.3 points per game. 
Linebacker Ron Orie, a team captain, laud
ed Poluszek. He was a fine coach. But with
CMUs coaching staff, we shouldnt have any 
problem picking up the slack.
Poluszek, a native of Weirton, W.Va., 
came to Carnegie-Mellon after serving as 
head coach at Weir High School in Weirton 
from 1976-79, and as assistant coach from 
1971-76. He originally joined the staff at 
Weir in 1968, but after one season took the 
head coaching position at Oak Glen High 
School in Cumberland, W.Va.
Poluszek was also head coach at Linsley 
Military Institute in Wheeling, W.Va. in 
1965, and an assistant coach at both Philippi 
High School in Philippi, W.Va. and 
Massillon High School in Massillon, Ohio. 
His overall record as a head coach is 28-20.
Poluszek was also head golf coach at 
Carnegie-Mellon and led the Tartans to their
Basketball
The rules clinic was held on on January 15. 
GAMES START JANUARY 20.
The tentative schedule will be on the IM 
Bulletin Board and the complete schedule 
will be out by the end of the week. If any 
questions arise, call your league commis
sioner or Mr. Birdy at x2214. 
Commissioners are:
MajorsRuss Long x4639 
Intermediate  Dom Colangelo 687-6369 
Minors Pat Carey x4770
Women Dee Nyzio x4608 
Chess (
Finals are being played now. Turn in results 
to IM office. Comissioner Bob Koca x8939 
Bowling
Playoffs started last weekend.
ComissionerVince Carozza 687-8940 
Team Volleyball
We need a minors champion, an All-School 
team, and MVP 
Commissioner Dee Nyzio *4608 
Darts
Please get finals played Comissioner 
Pat Carey x4778
Sports due January 23, 4:30 pm 
Wrestling 
Water Basketball 
Sports Coming Up
Schedules will be out this week. Check IM 
bulletin board.
Handball (E.J. Birdy x2214)
Pinochle (Vince Carozza 687-8490) 
Backgammon (Ted Bross 682-5134)
Floor Hockey (Rob Schlackman 683-3739)
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland's Cultural'Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fullly 
equipped kitchens.w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays ^ Weekends9-5 621*4132 124
Pioneer the future.
Join us in creating the next 
generation of technological 
wonders. Our representatives will 
be on campus to discuss job 
oportunities for engineers and 
scientists.
Proof of U.S. citizenship required 
Equal opportunity employer
On Campus Interviews:
FEBRUARY 7
See your Placement Office 
for complete details.
Creativity
America depends on.
rrrwTHi
EE39SK9
CORPORATE COLLEGE 
RELATIONS
Natators split; men victorious, women defeated
By STU LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
As the saying goes, Two out of three aint 
bad. For the Carnegie Mellon swimming 
teams and Coach Donna Morosky thats ex
actly how last week went. The mens varsity 
raised their record to 3-1 edging Virginia 
Military Institute here last Wednesday 60-53, 
and defeating PAC rival John Carroll 
University Saturday 53-39. The Women 
lost their only outing 50-45to John Carroll, 
also on Saturday, dropping them to 1-2.
The match against VMI showed the 
overall strength of the men as they placed 
first or second in 11 of the 13 events. Firsts 
were taken by junior Rob Summers in the 
1000 meter freestyle and 500 freestyle; 
sophomore Brian Foster in the 200 freestyle; 
freshman Greg Schooley in the 200 butter
fly, and the team of Schooley, sophomore 
Whitney Foster, freshman Dave Chamberlin, 
and junior Steve Francis in the 400 freestyle 
relay.
Francis also took two events solo, the 100 
meter freestyle, and the 50 freestyle. His time 
of 21.66 seconds in the freestyle qualified 
him, in the former event, for the NCAA
Division III Championships. Qualification 
for the championships are based on beating 
a certain threshold time, in this case 21.69 
seconds. This is the second year in a row 
he has qualified for this event. The 1984-85 
All American noted, I was very surprised 
to qualify this early. The shorter the 
distance, the harder it is to drop off in time 
later on. I didnt think Id make it in this 
event. Francis later went on to say that he 
expected to qualify in the 100 and 200
events.
Francis didnt have to wait long to qualify 
for the 100, when he posted a time of 47.43 
seconds against John Carroll on Saturday. 
The men again put on a great display of 
team swimming pulling out to a 50-19 lead 
with three events to go. Other winners were: 
junior Doug Biesecker, junior Mike Fitz
gerald, Schooley, and Chamberlain in the 
400 meter medley relay; Summers in the 
1000 freestyle and the 200 m backstroke, 
Foster in the 200 freestyle, Francis in the 200 
individual medley, and Schooley in the 200 
butterfly. The women did not fare as well, 
losing their last event and the meet by less 
than three seconds. The womens squad, 
which currently consists only of nine 
members, showed a great effort but just 
were unable to overcome the greater depth 
of the John Carroll team. The women 
started strong winning four of the first five 
events, but were unable to keep their lead 
against the Blue Streak. Winners for the 
Lady Tartans were the team of freshman 
Suzie Kelly, sophomore Carol Pampino, 
junior Nancy Ott, and freshman Francesca 
Crannell in the 400 medley relay; senior Pat
ty Illig in the 1000 meter freestyle, Crannell 
in the 50 freestyle, Pampino in the 200 in
dividual medley and 200 breaststroke, and 
Kelly in the 200 backstroke.
Despite the loss by the women, Coach
Morosky is optimistic about the rest of the 
season, including next weeks Kenyon Invita
tional, about which she commented Its a 
hard invitational. We cant take everyone 
and we dont taper to get in. Its a good meet, 
but it wont be a true indication of how we
dont have any mens divers. If the men swim 
extremely well, well win, but were going m 
at a big disadvantage.
Upcoming events for the Tartans 
are the Kenyon Invitational this 
weekend, and a home meet on Jan. 29 
against Bethany College and St. Francis at 
6:00 pm.
Coach Morosky was also upbeat about the 
PAC championships later in the season. Its 
the first year for the separate womens pro
gram, but the outlook is good. The only pro
blem will be John Carroll. The men also 
have a good chance, but Grove City is a big 
opponent, and were hurting because we
swim.

---------------------------------------------------

THE STUDENT SENATE HAS 
SEVEN VACANT SEATS
1 in CIT
2 in MCS
3 in HSS
1 in SUPA
Petitions available at Skibo information 
desk January 14January 28. All activity 
fee-paying students eligible.
Funded by student activities fee
3LM
SZHCHILXN 
GOl IRMKT
Szechuan Gourmet ranks with 
best for Asian eating
The only; Oriental Restaurant rated by Robert 
M. Bianco of the Pittsburgh Press in the TOP 
TEN BEST RESTAURANTS reviewed in 1985. 
If you are willing to be adventurous, dinner 
here is as close as you can get locally to a New 
York Chinatown meal
Celebrate The Year of the Tiger with a special 
Banquet of a traditional Chinese meal.
Make Your Reservations Now
709 Baftafaata St 
Shaystfa 
(aaa Mock frani Wahwt St)
Lunch  Dinner  Take-Out  Banquets  Cocktails
683-1763
apaa avary day
CMU Philosophy Club 
Organizational Meeting
Wednesday January 22nd 
at 7:30 in DH 1212
Cut yourself loose and come on down! 
Have a metaphysical experience. 
Refreshments will be provided.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
Superbowl showdown.. .NE Pats or Chicago Bears?
By PAUL O LEARY
Tartan Staffwriter
Both the Bears and the Patriots have been 
portraits of mediocrity in recent years. Yet 
here we are with two brand new faces in the 
Super Bowl. Too bad it may be a one sided 
game.
The Patriots will not surprise 
anybody in the Super Bowl. 
They play tough, ultra
conservative football. On offense, they 
pound the ball on the ground relentlessly, 
wearing down the defense by shuffling four 
running backs in and out of the game. After 
complaining to the coaching staff that he 
wasnt carrying the ball enough, Craig James 
ran the ball for over 1000 yards. Quarter
back Tony Eason, after accepting that the 
team's attack will stay on the ground, is 
throwing the ball better. Against Miami he 
completed 83 percent of his passes, break
ing an NFL playoff record.
Defensively, AFC Coach of the Year Ray
mond Berrys philosophy is to force the other 
team into making mistakes. Many players 
didnt see the point when Berry made them
practice stripping the ball and recovering 
fumbles. But this thinking has produced 16 
turnovers in the three playoff games, ac
counting for 61 of the Pats total 84 points. 
The linebackers are arguably the best in 
football, especially Andre Tippett, who 
finished second in sacks only to Richard 
Dent of the Bears.
Chicago is a unique football team, as 
evidenced by Head Coach Mike Ditkas per
mission to the team to record The Super 
Bowl Shuffle with four weeks left in the 
season. Quarterback Jim McMahon still 
butts heads with his linemen, and of course 
there is William The Refrigerator Perry.
The Bears incredibly hard hitting defense 
has carried them through the season with 
only one loss, to Miami. They gave up fewer 
yards than anyone in football, particularly 
against the rush, and have yet to give up a 
point in the playoffs. Through the televisions 
little speaker you hear loud cracks and crun
ches as Bear defenders lay out opposing ball
carriers and receivers.
On offense, Chicago can hurt you in a lot 
of ways. Walter Payton is dangerous both 
running and receiving. McMahon throws a 
lot of short passes to his backs and tight ends, 
but he can burn you throwing deep to ex
track star Willie Gault. Anything can hapThese are the picks from a select group of campus leaders. Bet accordingly. 
If youre not included, its because we ran out of time. Sorry.
President Cyertno pick 
Provost JordanBears 
Business Manager RogersPatriots 
VP Keith MooreBears 
Dean CoxBears
Don Hale, PRBears 
SID Bruce GersonBears 
All American Rob ButtsBears. 
Senate President Karen Lee???? 
CFP President Rich ThegPatriots
Round trip. Anywhere we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends 
are thinking about heading to the slopes, the 
beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound* can 
take you there. For onlv $99 or less, round trip.
From February 15 through April 27, all you 
do is show us your college student I.D. card 
when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date 
of purchase.
So this Spring Break, get a real break.
Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
For more information, call Greyhound.
pyK present a valid college student I.D card upon jjurchaae No other AREyNy apply Tickets are 
noatransferabie and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participa tin* carriers Certain 
restrictions apply Oner cffectrv* 2/15/8* Offer limited. Not valid in Canada.
GO GREYHOUND
And leave the driving to us!
11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300
1986 Grey hound Lines, Inc.
pen ifThe Fridge appears in the backfield. 
Because this entire season has been so 
unbelievable for the Patriots, nothing would 
surprise me in the Super Bowl. But, I dont 
think that the Bears defense is vulnerable 
in any way. In order for the Pats to win, they 
have to devise a way to score consistently 
against the Bears, something that only 
Miami did.
New England will try to prevail by put
ting their strength, the running game, 
against the Bears strength, the rushing 
defense. If the Bears win this battle, it could 
be a very long day for the Patriots. Because 
it is not likely that the Pats will score a lot 
of points, the defense has to hold the Bears 
to as few points as possible, and they must 
continue to force turnovers to give the of
fense good scoring opportunities.
Chicagos primary concerns are to shyat 
down the New England running game, and 
to hold on to the ball. If the Bears can do 
this, they will easily win Super Bowl XX. My 
brain loudly tells me that the Bears are go
ing to massacre the Patriots, but my heart 
is with the underdogs.

---------------------------------------------------

?ce5
"ice creamery"
TAKE A BREAK FROM DORM FOOD!
Go to PACES 
Now serving dinner 5-9 p.m. 
Spaghetti and other specials 
$3.49 with roll and butter 
Hamburgers served all day
Pace s also has homemade cones & ice cream 
420 S. Craig St.
(at Forbes)
683-2780
11:30 - 11:00 Sun-Th 
11-30 - 12:00 Fri-Sat
W WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWODOOI Coupon 
i $1.00 oft Dinner ** ** *
J Expires Feb. 10, 1986 J
*******************
Women's 
Health Services
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Street
CityState----------Zip
College (if student) _____________________________
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
422-1330
raffiOpen 11 AM  11 PM All Week
WHY GO ALL THE WAY TO GREECE? 
WHEN LITTLE ATHENS CAN COME TO YOU!
MENU
GYROS ........................................................... JZ.35
SH1SHRABDBS .............................................. Z.85
SHISHRABDB DIMMER salad rice skewer of me.il pastry  . $5.50
GREEK SALAD .............................................. $1.65
ARTIGH0HE SALAD ................................... $2.00
6RAPE LEAVES ............................................ $Z.Z5
H0MMDU5 cr.ae.am ........................................ $1.<I0
BABA BHAM0GE eggplant dip    . .................... $1.40
GOMBIMflTmM PLOTTER ce mea, ................ $3.70
FflLflFIL fried ground chick peas w onion and parsley  . ................ $1.70
CHEESE & SPIMACH PIES ............................. $1.10
RICEPUDDIMB .............................................. $ -75
BREER PASTRIES .......................................... $ .50
FREMCH FRIES .............................................. $ -75
Plus Tax
UJE DELIUER FREE
$5.00 Minimum
CTO
LUMGH 
11 AM  Z PM
DinriER 
5 PM  11 PM(i
JP
ICE SKATE 
at Sehen ley Park
 Public Skating
 Private Parties
 Group Rates
 College ID Night
 Tuesday, 7 pm
For hours and rates call 521-8579. 
Additional information at 521-9924.
CMU LACROSSE MEETING 
  
SKIBO 12 
8:00 TUESDAY All WelcomeHELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center....................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.....................................................................................782 4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection..............................................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel Aid..................................................................................................................... 281 4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Afraid of the Dark? 
Turn on the Light.
The Campus Security Department has its pro
blems: the emergency phones on campus are not 
all noticeable or easily accessible; some areas on 
campus, like the area around GSIA are not welllit at night, and as it stands, the shuttle and escort 
services can not accomodate all the students, all 
the time, and when library hours are extended 
this problem may become worse. The effectiveness 
of Campus Security is an important issue, because 
our own personal safety, as well as the security 
of the Universitys facilities are heavily dependent 
upon the success of the Security Department.
We CMU students spend alot of time noticing 
what is wrong with this University, wishing like 
hell that someone would do something about it, 
but even the most avid arm-chair administrator 
should realize that it takes more than just 
recognizing or complaining about a condition to 
alleviate it. While Campus Security is aware of 
many of the gaps in security here, and may even 
have viable solutions to address the problem, the 
bureaucratic hold-ups intrinsic to any large 
organization often make the implementation of 
these programs slow or even impossible. This is 
why students must be actively involved. One 
group of students realized that the emergency 
phones on campus are not particularly noticeable 
and when they lobbied in support of the head of 
Security, Chief Robert S. Fadzens idea to put a 
colored light on top of each phone, they got 
results. Soon the campus should have more 
emergency phones, each with a light on top to 
draw attention to it. Never underestimate the 
power of organized student lobbying to facilitate 
changes in the University, which otherwise may 
never see the light at the end of the bureaucratic 
tunnel.
It seems that the best way to improve the Cam
pus Security Department, or any other depart
ment on campus, is through raising student 
awareness and then gearing that awareness into 
cooperation between students, faculty and ad
ministration to suggest and monitor im
provements. In order to raise student awareness, 
security offices could spend a few minutes on each 
dorm floor going over basic safety procedures or 
taking and responding to suggestions for better 
security on campus. Chief Fadzen also hopes to 
begin offering seminars around campus on street 
safety and basic self-defense. Once students are 
more aware of what would improve campus 
security and what the basic limitations on security 
are, they could take part in lobbying for a larger 
budget for Security or certain specific changes 
which would most improve the security on 
campus.
When discussing security at CMU, it is impor
tant to remember where this school is located. 
Though many students consider Pittsburgh to be 
the Mid-west, Carnegie-Mellon is not surround
ed by cornfields, but by a populous urban area. 
Understanding security here means understan
ding the hazards of city living. But for those who 
are truly eager to see an upgrading of Security, 
dont just wait for it to happen. Campus improve
ment is not a spectator sport.
illustration by Mike McHugh
Letters:Abortion Issue Fuels More Debate
Editor:
We would like to respond to the 
letter published in the January 14 
issue of the Tartan by Katherine 
Robinson of Students for Choice. 
First, we would like to make clear 
that Uriel Wittenberg is not a 
member of the CMU Association 
for Life, nor has he ever attended 
any of our regular meetings. 
Although Mr. Wittenberg makes 
no claims in his letter of 
November 26 to pro-choice or 
pro-life leanings, his comments 
such as as biased and as con
temptuous of truth as the pro
lifers. . and the fraudulent 
Silent Scream. . . do not sound 
like those of an ardent pro-lifer. 
Furthermore, his concern that Ms. 
Robinsons actions might discredit 
the pro-choice movement 
bespeaks sympathetic feelings 
towards their position.
In regards to Ms. Robinsons ac
cusation that the Association for 
Life invaded a Students for 
Choice meeting, members of 
AFL have only attended, without 
disrupting, the first organizational 
SFC meeting, which was highly 
publicized and presumably open 
to the public. The showing of The 
Silent Scream by the SFC was not 
a meeting, but a highly publicized 
presentation presumably for the 
benefit of the entire campus pop
ulation. The Jeanne Clark lecture 
was presented in the same way.
In light of the following, we 
take exception to Ms. Robinsons 
claims that the AFL opposes free 
speech and free thought and that 
the SFC advocates letting 
students make up their own mind 
whether or not to support volun
tary pregnancy:
 Over 1000 AFL posters pro
moting our presentation of 
The Silent Scream on 
November 19 were taken 
down as poster promoting the
SFCs November 18 showing 
of the same film were being 
posted. Other AFL posters 
were defaced, having the date 
and time of the AFL presentaion crossed out and replac
ed with the date and time of 
the SFC program.
 Two large banners put up by 
the AFL over the entrance to 
Doherty Hall promoting our 
presentation were likewise 
removed. It is interesting to 
note the corresponding SFC 
banner remained untouched 
although it was placed at a 
more accessible height.
From these occurrences it 
would appear that not the AFL 
but rather the perpetrators of 
these acts, in an effort to suppress 
the pro-life side, are the opposers 
of free speech and thought.
Another correction that needs 
to be made is that the Center for 
Disease Controls study showed 
that the mortality rate for first 
trimester abortions is lower than 
the total maternity mortality rate 
which includes deaths up to six 
months after delivery. (Thomas 
Hilger and Dennis OHare, 
Abortion-Related Maternal Mor
tality Analysis, New Perspectives 
on Human Abortion, p. 90).
We take offense at Ms. Robin
sons unfounded claim that we 
stated pregnancy cannot result 
from rape. Rape is a violent, not 
a sexual crime; nevertheless it is 
a sexual act and therefore can 
result in pregnancy. The original 
comment was in connection with 
the low, but not nonexistent, in
cidence of pregnancy resulting 
from rape.
It is unfortunate that Ms. 
Robinson used a misunderstan
ding with Uriel Wittenberg, an 
individual who is admittedly prochoice, as a vehicle to discredit the 
CMU Association for Life. It is
not the policy of the CMU-AFL to 
make unfounded attacks on other 
campus organizations or 
individuals it is unfortunate that 
Ms. Robinson does not share these 
views.
Felicia Thibeault 
Art 87
President CMU-AFL
Terece Turton
Physics 86
Public Relations
CMU Association for Life
Editor:
Why do people, in arguing for 
a just cause, feel that the end 
justifies the means, that is they are 
fighting for what is right their 
fighting does not have to be right? 
The disruption at the Students for 
Choice showing of Silent Scream 
and Planned Parenthoods 
response disturbed me as much as 
it did people in the pro-choice 
group. While the shouting match 
was on, many pro-life students in
cluding myself tried to let the prochoice group present an uniterrupted presentation by asking the 
person who was interrupting to 
hold the conversation until later. 
Abortion is a volatile issue which 
causes passions to rise on both 
sides so that what is called a 
discussion often becomes a 
shouting match in which neither 
side listens to the other. Although 
I very firmly believe that aborting 
an unborn child is equivalent to 
murder, I do not think that 
fighting for illegalizing abortion 
justifies me to be rude in discus
sion or uncompassionate with 
people who are on either side of 
the issue.
I also fear that in the attempt 
to present logical arguments on 
both sides of the abortion issue, 
the major issue often gets lost.
continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 1986The TartanPage 21
Student Senate Offers Students Valuable Opportunities
by Eric Rocher
Once again there are senate seats which need to be filled. There are 3 H&SS, 2 MCS,
1 CIT, and 1 SUPA seat available. All ac
tivities fee paying students are eligible to 
apply. Petitions are available at 
the Skibo information desk.
0 There are at least three
 reasons for becoming a senator:
Student senators know what is going on 
on this campus. Representatives from the 
administration, IFC (Intra Fraternity Council), SDC (Student Dorm Council), class clubs, GSO (Graduate Student Organiza
tion), and the Student Government Presi
dent are present at the Senate meetings. 
These representatives share and bring up 
issues at every Senate meeting.
Senate nominates students for the park
ing committee, faculty senate committees,
the auxiliary services committee, and the 
board of trustees committees. These 
nominees report back to the Student Senate 
and whatever is fit to print is written in the 
Senate minutes and sent to the Tartan.
Senate meetings begin with audience par
ticipation. Next, officers from the above 
mentioned groups discuss what issues are being or need to be addressed, then senate 
committees report on their activities and 
projects. At the end of the meeting the 
senate can pass motions, bring up resolu
tions, or amend the constitution.
Student senators come from all four col
leges and all four classes. Senators from dif
ferent colleges have to solve core problems 
together. Senators pick their committees and 
projects irrespective of their college.
Senate is also a place to make new friends. 
With thirty or so senators and weekly senate
Letters continued: Abortion Issue
continued from oaae 20
The major issue is not whether Silent 
Scream is 100% accurate; the major issue 
is neither how much abortionists make, nor 
how many abortions were performed at any 
given time; the major issue is whether or not 
a child in the mothers womb (fetus if you 
prefer) is a separate life. Because if abortion 
w equivalent to taking a life, then all other 
issues become secondary.
We do not consider legalizing murder 
because a greater percentage of poor and 
disadvantaged people commit murder. We 
do not consider it anti-choice to prevent 
murder, for even though we deter people 
from choosing this option, it is clearly 
necessary that we do so. Once a child is born 
we do not let a mother kill the child because 
she will not be able to raise the child or 
because it ruins her career or because her 
lpver left her. Nor should we let these or 
other reasons influence our decision whether 
or not to keep abortion legal if abortion is 
clearly killing a separate life (which it is just 
by nature of the child having a genetic code 
different from the mothers).
Although I wept inside at seeing the 
graphic photograph of a woman who had 
killed herself in attempting an illegal abor
tion, this too should not dissuade us from 
the issue-is abortion taking a separate life? 
If murder were legalized, a killer would 
be* safer (from getting arrested or shot by 
police), but that is not a valid objection. 
Likewise the greater risk of bearing a child 
and the possibility of increasing illegal abor
tions are not valid objections if abortion in
volves taking a separate life. Even the heart 
wrenching issue of rape falls into this cate
gory, since it is not the fault of the fetus that 
he/she was created through a horrible act.
Coming to grips with the major issue can 
be very difficult so it is tempting to get 
caught up in subissues. My analysis may even 
'seem too straight forward. But please do not 
make the mistake of thinking because I firm
ly believe abortion is wrong that I am uncompassionate to the situation unwed 
Mothers or others who desire to have abor
tions are in. Pro-life groups are often por
trayed in the media as being uncompassionate in their activities and many also 
think that they offer no alternatives. 
Although some people in the groups get carned away in their zeal to see justice prevail 
a.nd therefore seem heartless toward 
abortion-considering mothers and prochoicers, the rarely televised majority do not 
feel the end justifies the means. Many prolifegroups provide homes for unwed
Mothers, counselling, and educational ac
uities. Although we desire to prevent 
children in the womb from being destroyed 
and therefore talk to mothers considering 
abortions, it is attempted to do so in a com
passionate and considerate manner with an
open ear and heart. I firmly believe in both 
sex education and in educating people about 
the medical facts concerning abortion. It is 
my firm hope, though, that people will soon 
see a child in the womb as a separate life 
and therefore make it illegal to take that life.
Scott Bronner 
Grad Student 
MEMS 87
Editor:
On Nov. 26, The Tartan carried a letter 
by me protesting a biased and anti
intellectual campus presentation on the 
abortion issue by the Students For Choice 
(SFC). The SFC Program Director, 
Katherine Robinson, considers my 
nauseating letter a personal attack against 
her. Her retaliatory response (AFL Attacks 
Unfounded, Jan. 14) casts me as a double 
agent for the pro-lifers, favoring pro-choice 
in public while actively participating in in
vasions and disruptions of pro-choice 
events. Where did she get this idea?!
Ms. Robinson attempts to turn the tables 
on me by denouncing my letter as anti-free 
speech. As program director, she writes, I 
was shocked that I was unable to discuss the 
inaccuracies of the Silent Scream in my own 
meeting.
Ms. Robinsons insistence on viewing the 
meeting as hers, her resentment of 
legitimate questions that were posed at the 
meeting, and her apparent idea of what is 
decorous (on Monday we knock the lifers, 
and Tuesday they can knock us), suggest a 
weak grasp of what free speech and intellec
tual discussion really are.
It is appropriate to draw public attention 
to a medical fact that she is prepared to back 
up with at least some evidence. It is even ap
propriate -- again, if there is evidence -- to 
personally attack Dr. Nathanson, and claim 
he only switched from being an abortionist 
to being a pro-lifer because he was mad 
about losing a power struggle in the prochoice movement. It would be nice to 
discredit a leading pro-lifer in this way.
But when Ms. Robinson asserts something 
without being able to offer any references, 
sources, or other grounds, she is asking her 
audience to believe something just because 
some unknown student member of a prochoice group happens to believe it. This is 
not a contribution to the cause of letting 
students make up their own minds. Blind 
trust is a prescription for going either berserk 
or catatonic when two people make con
tradictory claims.
Trust is not the answer. This is a universi
ty. We should use our brains, instead of 
always looking to our parents, our professors, 
our government, or God to do our thinking 
for us. That is the way to safeguard freedom 
of speech.
Uriel Wittenberg 
Doctoral Student, SUPA
and committee meetings, all active senators 
get to meet many other people.
Student senators clear up problems. 
Recently senators have worked on issues such 
as the high number of courses being taught 
(lectured) by graduate students, escort ser
vice reliability, and library hours and study 
rooms.
The academic affairs committee com
pleted a list last semester of classes in dif
ferent colleges which were taught (lectured) 
by graduate students rather than professors. 
The committee is now working on updating 
the list and finding out why so many courses 
are taught by grad students.
For the past year students have been ask
ing for improvements in the shuttle and 
escort services. Students concerns about 
shuttle routes and escort service reliability 
have been voiced to the administration, and 
escort service was extended last semester for 
finals week.
Library study rooms and late night library 
hours have been a Senate issue. At the bid
ding of the campus affairs committee, the 
library has surveyed library users on what 
was most important to students at the 
library. The library has also been made
violently aware that students want their 
library study rooms back.
The Student Senate is broken down into 
four committees: academic affairs, campus 
affairs, funding and recognition, and public 
relations & human resources. The commit
tee chairpeople can be reached through 
campus mail to the Skibo information desk, 
through the Student Affairs office in Warner 
Hall, or from the senate meetings.
The senate has a semesterly leadership 
retreat. This semester 23 senators went to a 
hotel in Uniontown, PA. for the function. 
During the retreat senators brainstormed on 
issues which are relevant to the campus and 
came up with solutions to some of those 
issues.
Senates next step is to fill its vacant seats 
and carry out the work that was well begun 
at the retreat. Working together, senate will 
get things done.
Eric Rocher is a Junior in Biology and is 
in the Health Professions Program. He is 
chairman of the student senate.
The student senate meets on Tuesday 
nights in the Wherret room. All students are 
invited to attend.
Inquiring Minds Really Dont 
Give a Damn
by The Inquring Staff
It seems that there are a lot of things that 
go on at CMU that are mind-boggling if one 
ever bothered to think about them. Because 
of that we feel that there is a need to ex
amine these things that INQUIRING 
MINDS REALLY DONT GIVE 
A DAMN about.
For example, we learned 
several weeks ago in The Tartan 
that the old stately name, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, is passe, no longer what we need 
for our image. So, now we have the brand 
new, sportier Carnegie Mellon without the 
offensive hyphen. Note the trim sleek design 
as the new num de plume is shorter and 
goes from 0 to 50 in 8.3 seconds. We feel that 
Shakespeare (almost) said it best when in 
Hamlet he wrote the immortal words, To 
dash or not to dash, that is the question. 
Whether tis nobler in the mind to suffer the 
slings and arrows of outrageous PR, or to 
take arms against a sea of bad publicity... 
Well, in any case, inquiring minds really 
dont give a damn.
Another thing to wonder about are our 
buildings. Most of the buildings on campus 
have been named for past presidents of 
CIT/CMU; e.g. Warner Hall, Baker Hall, 
Hamerschlag Hall and House, and Doherty 
Hall and Apartments. What wed like to 
know is what is going to be named after 
President Cyert after he leaves the Universi
ty? There certainly are plenty of possibilities: 
the Skibo expansion, the SEI building, the 
Morewood hotel, the Bureau of Mines comOpinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are th opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
plex, perhaps even the spacious CMU steam 
tunnels.
Another thought. Why is it that MorePizza does not deliver, unlike most university 
pizza places? We think UDS is deathly afraid 
that if the workers started delivering pizza 
to rooms, they just wouldnt come back to 
Morewood. Instead, theyd just sit down with 
their friends and enjoy(?) the pizza theyve 
just delivered. This lack of trust on UDS 
part, we feel is deplorable.
Finally, in our where are they now sec
tion, we would like to know what has hap
pened to the architect of Skibo? We at In
quiring Minds have determined just by the 
design of our sinking student union that 
he/she either went to MIT or Pitt, but we 
have no idea where he/shes been since. 
Perhaps the architect in question has since 
designed the Ford Pinto.
By the way, the authors of this article have 
never been to North Dakota, and yes, IN
QUIRING MINDS REALLY DONT GIVE 
A DAMN.
Editor-in-Chief.............Lisa D. McAnany
Managing Editor .................Olve Peersen
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor .............................Vijay Reddy
Entertainment Editor .... Bruce Kasrel 
Features Editor.. .Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor.............................Jill Dorson
Photography Editor...............Jack Poller
Art Editor................................Mike McHugh
Dossier Editor ....................Michele Keane
Ad Manager ...........................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ..Albrecht Powell 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter 
Editorial Asst.......................Albrecht Powell
Contributing Editors: Karen Gray, Mohan 
Embar.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2111. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, CarnegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

DEBRA ABELL itNtdermatologist
student (1iS('ount nailable
 easily accessible by bus from C'Ml
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
6820616
\lasicrdiird \'isa act rpfrd 
( kill (i[tfMMninnyni
up-grade 1: a rise to a better state or position. 2: an increase in the speed and power of your Macintosh computer.
Redefine the performance of your Macintosh with a memory upgrade 
from Kamquest Systems. 512K to 2 meg expansions, 120 day warranty 
and fast turnaround time. Prices starting at $225. Call 683-6244.
KAMQUESTSYSTEMS
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod) 
531 North Neville Street. Oakland
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 PM 
(at parsonage, 535 North Neville)
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
Your favorite Wendys, Arbys, Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta delivered to your dorm.
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pirn, to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities OnlyI
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
WEDNESDAY JAN. 29 
8:00 P.M.
CMU vs. BETHANY COLLEGE
The basketball team wants 
YOUR support!
So come to the game 
and cheer on the Tartans 
with a FREE MEGAPHONE!
Bring your friends and 
your I.D. The first group 
of fans will receive their 
own megaphones to use 
at the Tartan games.
pc Ue-MwsudyThe Spider
ONLY $59."
TM
shipping included
NY buyers add .0575 sales tax
Protects MONITOR, PRINTERS, KEYBOARD, CPU, DISK DRIVES, protects up to 5 computer accessories, if thief tries to remove any, a continuous 98 DECIBEL ALARM will sound.
Easy to hook-up, just stick sensor onto item you 
are securing, no tools, no drilling . . . Effective deterrent to theft and unauthorized Borrowing.
Perfect in Dorm, Apartment, Office, Computer Lab . . . Fits Every PC.
Makes COMMON and ECONOMICAL sense to have THE SPIDER PROTECTING YOUR PC Than to have NOTHING PROTECTING YOUR PC.
High-Tech Multi Sensor Electronic Alarm Controlled by Sophisticated Microchip.
GUARANTEED!
MAIL CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: SCARBOROUGH IMPORTS, 212 ST. MARYS ST., 
PEEKSKILL, NY 10566. Battery not included.
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want
PrecisionHaircut
onlv*13.00
Just-A-CutDesigner Perm
onlv I only*25.00 *8.00
Comp** wrtti jhampoo A blow styt*
comp with 
 written QuorontI
Ptec mon haircut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED'
Great Styles Start at... roAPPONTMENT
NECESSARYNo Appointments
I WITH IM$ COU*OMBI
save *2.00 i 
on the Precision Haircut IComptai* wMh tfiampoo A 4yNng |
I
vPttCIIT CHKGTflTMIS.
PRECISION HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
President to have open office hours for students. Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, January 28. Students who wish to meet with the president should telephone his secretary, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Buhl Science Center. The Laseriums latest Jiaserock concert, GENESIS, begins January 23 in the planetarium at Buhl Science Center. GENESIS opens at 9:15 p.m. on January 23 and 
is performed Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 
8 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. with a 3 p.m. matinee on Saturday.
City Theater Company. NUTS by Tom Topor is presented January 21 through February 16. For ticket information, call 624- 4101.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theater. The Magic Horn of Charlemagne is presented on January 25 at 11 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. and on January 26 at 2:30 p.m. For more information, call 621-4445.
Open Auditions for Oedipus Rex, Ridge Avenue Theater. Open Auditions for the CCAC 
Allegheny Campus spring production of Oedipus Rex are scheduled for January 27 through 29 at7 p.m. For more information, call the Department of Music, Speech, and Theater at 237-2678. Pittsburgh Dance Alloys Subscription Series. 
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy performs at the Eddy 
Theater at Chatham College on January 24 and
25 at 8 p.m. and January 26 at 2 p.m. For more 'information, call 421-9747.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Exhibition of collectors quality posters from the 1950s, 1960s and
1970s featuring Picasso, Matisse, Roualt, Duft, and Chagall. The Marcus Gordon Gallery is located on 416 S. Craig Street. Gallery hours are11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday; Thursday evening until 8 p.m.Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art Tours. 
Highlight Tours, 15-minute introductory talks on a different work each week through February 28, 
Tuesday through Sunday at 2 p.m. Free with museum admission. Gallery Talks, 1-hour tours 
of Museum of Art Masterpieces through January26 on weekends at 2 p.m. Tours begin in the Museum of Art Foyer. Free with museum admission.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History Tours.
Dinosaur Tours, 1/2 hour tours, slide programs 
and films. Saturdays at 1 p.m. and Sundays at2 p.m. through January. Program begins at the museums Visitor Center. Free with museum admission. Special Tours, 1/2 hour tours, slide programs, and films on natural history topics. Saturdays at noon and Sundays at 3 p.m. through 
January. Programs begin at the museums Visitor Center. Free with museum admission. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families 
and Friends, held in the Childrens Room from 
1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Advance registration. Call 622-3214.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History Special Programs and Events. Identifying Pennsylvania 
Rocks, , a parent/child workshop that examines 
the different rock layers and fossils found in 
Pennsylvania on January 26 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Advance registration. Nature 
Photography Programs. Beginning January 21, 
a variety of classes are offered from Basic
Photography to Scenic Photography. Advance registration. Fees vary. Marine Life: Past and 
Present, a course, offered jointly with the Pittsburgh Zoo, for adults that explores the wonders of marine evolution and adaptations. Beginning January 25 for four Saturdays from 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Fee is $30. Advance registration.Carnegie Institute.Natural World Photographic Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits Gallery). Continues through March 16. Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. Five Points of View from Pennsylvania1, an exhibition 
of works by five Pennsylvanian artists who each use different mediums. The exhibition runs through January 26 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tuesday through Friday; 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday; and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday. The Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery is located at 407 S. Craig Street.
Hewlett Gallery. Susanne Slavick, associate professor of art, exhibits oil paintings through January 30. The Hewlett Gallery is on the first floor of the College of Fine Arts. The gallery is 
open 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Fri
day; noon to 4 p.m., Saturday; and 1 p.m. to4 p.m., Sunday.Forbes Gallery. Rick Smith, Margaret Pak, and 
Jodi Fedoris exhibit their work through January 26. Opening is on January 21 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Refreshments served. Gallery hours are 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., Wednesday through Friday; noon to 5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday.
Classifieds
Distinctive Wedding Invitations, Announcements, Stationery for all occasions.
Fabulous selection, discount prices. J. R. Stationery shown by appointment. 243-0380.
$60.00 Per Hundred Paid for remailing letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for information/application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203
Counselors, over 19, who like to have fun andmake fun at unique overweight boys summer camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of the following: water safety, waterskiing, boating, soccer, basketball, arts and crafts, rockclimbing, riflery, ham radio, rocketry, science, archery, track, tennis, golf, photograpy, pioneering, or general athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
Highway, Traffic, 8c Street Signs. Official, Send $1 for catalogue. De sign Store, P.O. Box 2781, Palm Beach, FL 33480.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! Noquotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed envelope: Success, P.O. Box 470CEG, Woodstock, IL 60098.
Shaler House for Sale  3 BR, 2V6 bath split entry on level lot, A/C. Many extras. Must see. 821-1624.
PITTSBURGH GUITARS - We buy, sell & trade used and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4633.
Students Earn Extra $$$s in your spare time. Local travel agency seeks aggressive campus sales reps. Commission paid for each transaction referred to our office. Call for appointment. 687-8000.
Pregnancy Research. Planning on becoming pregnant soon? Take advantage of FREE pregnancy testing and fertility awareness program. For details, call 647-5202. University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health.
Events
21
Tuesday
Movies
Judgement At Nuremberg, starring Burt Lancaster, Spencer Tracy, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dieteich, Judy Garland, 
Montgomery Clift. Extraordinary cast in a fine 
film about the WWII German war trials. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Chemistry Colloquium. Dr.Thomas McMurray, Department of Chemistry, 
University of California, Berkeley, speaks on Fer.ric Ion Sequestering Agents: Template Synthesis 
of Macrocyclic Catecholyamid Ligands' at 3 p.m. in Mellon Institute Conference Room. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 2:30 p.m.
Resume Writing. Get your resume off the 
ground by learning some basic guidelines. See ex
amples and conduct a resume critique as if were 
the personnel officer from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Skibo room 45.
Wednesday 
O Q Movies
mmmJ Alphaville, starring Eddie Constantine, Anna Karina. Offbeat sci-fi tale of a 
private-eye sent to a futuristic city to rescue a scientist. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Sports
jMens Basketball. Away Game against ThielCollege, 8 p.m.
Womens Basketball. Away Game against Thiel
College, 6 p.m.
Recreation
Department of Modern Languages French Table. Noon at Morewood Cafeteria.
Clubs
A Phi O, 8:30, Adamson Wing.
AIESEC, an international, student-run business organization, offers a world of experience, both practical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 
p.m. in Skibo Room 11.
Community Events
Independent Job Search. Learn where else to distribute your resume using want ads, informal contact, address directories, walk-in visits, and 
employment agencies from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. in Skibo room 45.
23
Thursday
Movies
The Women, starring Norma 
Shearer, Joan Crawford, Rosalind Russell, 
Paulette Godard. Clare Booth Luces stinging comedy-drama about a group of Park Avenue women and their love lives. One of Cukors best, and one of the liveliest 1930s comedies. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Ad
mission $2.95.
Jules and Jim, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 p.m., 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. Admission $1.00.
Lectures
Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. II Hyun Choi, 
University of Michigan, speaks on A SiliconBased Thermopile Infared Detector Array Con taining On-Chip MOS Readout Circuitry1 at 3:30 p.m. in Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments at 3:15 
p.m.
Department of Chemical Engineering Seminar.Visiting Professor R. D. Srivastava, Department 
of Chemical Engineering, University of Delaware, speaks on Multidisciplinary Approach in 
Catalytic Science* at 11 a.m. in DH 1112. Coffee and doughnuts are served at 10:45 a.m. in 
DH 1102.
Career Decision Making Series (Junior and 
Senior Section) Designed to help you assess your interests and abilities, explore current career interests as well as new ideas, and form goals and strategies. Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services or call x2064. This is a three week series 
meeting on Thursdays, January 23, January 30, and February 6.
Music
Department of Music Convocation: The NiiyaOtaki-Tigges Trio. Reiko Niiya-Tigges, violin; Timothy Tigges, violoncello; and Michael Otaki, piano play at Alumni Concert Hall at 12:30 p.m.
Carnegie-Mellon Brass Band. Keith Lockhart 
is conducting at Alumni Concert Hall at 8 p.m.
Clubs
Department of Modern Languages German Table. Noon at Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in 
rock climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, 
come to a meeting at 8 p.m. in Skibo Room 12. Trips every weekend. Beginners are welcome.
24W JL
Friday
Movies
Witness, starring Harrison Ford, Kelly McGillis. Strong, well-acted film about an urban detective and an Amish family. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 p.m., 9:30 p.m., and 11:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Politics in Film: All for Victory (1940), part 
of a city-wide collaboration on political art1 initiated by the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. Carnegie Institute Museum of Art Theater at 8 p.m.
New Video: Japan, Mako Idemistsu presents Great Mother1, a video triology at 8 p.m. in the 
Oakland Screening Room, 205 Oakland Avenue.
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 p.m., 8:30 p.m., and11 p.m. Admission SI.00.
Sports
Swimming. Kenyon Invitational.
Lectures
Department of Chemistry Colloquium. Professor Martin Karplus, Department of Chemistry, 
Harvard University, speaks on Electronic Structures of Prosthetic Groups in Proteins' at 4:30 p.m. in Mellon Institute Conference. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 4 p.m.
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group meetings at 7 p.m. in Skibo Room 12. Daily prayer meetings, Monday through Saturday, at 6 p.m. in the Chapel, Skibo Room 39.
25
Saturday
Movies
Life of Brian, starring John 
Cleese, Terry Jones, Graham Chapman, and the 
Monty Python crew. Outrageous satire about a man whose life parallels that of Jesus Christ. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m., 9:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Milos Forman Series: Taking Off (1971),
Carnegie Institute Museum of Art Theater at 8 p.m.
Sleeper , sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 p.m., 8 p.m., 10 p.m., and midnight. Admission $1.00.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanJanuary 21, 1986
Sports
Swimming. Kenyon Invitational.
Womens Basketball. Away Game at Geneva 
College, 2 p.m.
Lectures
Race and Public Policy* in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King. Events begin with coffee and 
registration at 8:30 a.m. with speakers 
throughout the day. For more information, contact Sheila Ards, Coordinator, 321-3174.
Sunday 
Movies
Willy Wonka and The Chocolate 
Factory, starring Gene Wilder, Jack Albertson. 
Cult favorite about children taking a tour of candy factory. Script by Roald Dahl. Musical score includes song Candy Man.* Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m., and 9:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Pittsburgh Symphony 1985-86 Student Series. Herbert Blomstedt conducts Weber, Bartk and Brahms with Guest Artist Malcom Frager, piano, at 2:30 p.m.
Monday 
Movies
Henry V, starring Laurence 
Olivier, Leslie Banks, Max Adrian, Robert Newton, and Leo Genn. Brilliant screen render
ing of Shakespeares play. Spectacular battle scenes and excellent cast make this one of the best film treatments of a Shakespeare play. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Admission 
S2.95.
The Romantic Rebellion, is screened at the King Estate at 7;30 p.m. This movie is part of the Art History Film Series and is sponsored by 
the Citiparks.
Sports
College Basketball. Duchesses vs. Pittsburgh at 5:35 p.m. and Duquesne vs. Rutgers at 8 p.m. in the Civic Arena.
Lectures
Second Interviews: Site Visits. Discuss the 
dynamics of the second interview, how to prepare for it, what may occur and what may be expected 
of you from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in Skibo room
45.A Datsun 280-ZX lost control on Forbes Avenue Thursday night and came 
to rest in CMUs bushes in front of Skibo.
Maybe thereisa 
substitute fa experience.
After youre done with school, you face one of the hardest lessons inWithout experience, its 
tough to get a job. And without a job, its tough to 
get experience.
At The Wall Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something 
you dont start earning until after 
you graduate.But while youre waiting, we can 
give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advan *es that experience brings.)r instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer 
understanding of the whole complex world of business.
Our tightly focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitionswhether in 
management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business.
And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper 
and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200,* ext. 899- or mail the couponand start your 
subscription to The Wall Street 
Journal at student savings of up to 
$44 off the regular subscription 
price.Thats a pretty generous offer. 
Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.
rTbsubscribe,call800-257-120^ | 
ext899 toll-free.|{)r mail to: The Wall Street Journal, 200 Burnett Road,Chicopee, MA 01021
? Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $63aI saving of $44 off the regular subscription price.? Send me 15 weeks for $26. ? Payment enclosed.
? Bill me later.
I Name____________________________________________Student !.!).#_
Address____
City________
School______
_Grad. Month/Year.
These prices are valid Un a limited time for slut/nits mtx in the continental I S By placing yjur order, you authorize The Wall Street Journal to verify (hienrollment information supplied above.TheWll Street Journal.The daily riian' of the American dream.
In iVnnsylvama. call HOO 2MMHO.r*. W.' I>851fcrtv Jones & Company, Inc.
-, ------Friedmann

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PSOO@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
!! Mac Charlie!!
For a limited time only, The CMU Computer Store is 
able to make the Mac Charlie Computer System 
available for only $1199.00. This is the same unit that 
is used in the Hunt Library Computer Classroom. It 
comes complete with two double-sided 
double-density floppy disk drives and 640k of RAM 
memory. Have the power of a PC and a Macintosh on 
the same desktop.
While Supplies Last!
*The Mac Charlie is a MS-DOS machine that works along side 
of the 512k Macintosh. It is necessary to have a Macintosh in 
order to use a Mac Charlie
rax
NEW!
CLUB MED ST. LUCIA
Only $800 + $50 Membership 
COMPLETE
Includes:
 Round-trip airfare  New York-St. Lucia
 Baggage handling
 Transfers at destination
 Accommodations for 7 nights/8 days
 Breakfast
 Lunch and Dinner with unlimited wine
 Swimming
 Sailing
 Tennis
 Aerobics/water exercises
 Archery
 Horseback riding
This special introductory rate is indeed extraordinary! St. Lucia 
is a tropical paradise located just south of the island of Martinique 
in the West Indies. Each air-conditioned bungalow here has a 
balcony overlooking the sea. Horseback riding is offered for all 
levels, four tennis courts are available for playday or night, or 
you might try sailing school on one of two large cruisers. Of course 
youll want to swimin the pool or the sea, or try the jacuzzi or a 
day-long picnic or a boat ride.
Everything will be provided for your pleasure at Club Med. 
Guides are available to answer questions, act as your hosts, and 
help you to relax and enjoy yourself. Youll have plenty of com
pany from all over the world at Club Medor, if you prefer utter 
peace and quiet with time to yourself, all you have to do is choose it.
Best of all, there are no hidden costs at Club Med because your 
all-inclusive vacation is prepaid. The only extras are optional 
excursions, drinks at the bar (other than the wine, which flows 
freely at lunch and dinner) and personal purchases.
Go on . . . give us a call. Well twist your arm for you.
Vacation Travel 
521-7300 
Business Travel 
CMU ext. 2999
Our three-year and two-year scholarships wort make college easier.
Just easier to pay for.
Even if you didnt start college on a scholarship, you 
could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships 
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational 
fees and textbooks. Along with up to SI,000 
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CPRPS
 PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
810 IVY STREET fe682-3333
rnrr rw  Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-i2 am 
We sell pizza by the slice
N
N
>
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
<
N
N
<
N
N
<a
LARGE$
PIZZAWith
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
.iter of Coke With Purchase Of Large Pizza
 PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA

>
N
N
>
N
N

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co.
So.X^ss.Wec,GOell, I....
U)WxV cxrC.net, LOOK'.,...
dbwso^ iV\S__
ooeekevdL ?
I
(oi+W KiolWwv?
!, 1
vu
v , .:x 
| IIIv^y 
--
UkW, op, see, W's.VyjJi 
loo^W Vta^A t). 'uv^ o.rA
TheNwspaaraor -\octauj
The Top Floorby M
YOU ARE THE FRDDUCr OF A SOCIETY 
THAT CHVRHS 00T 6REEDY, LITTLE 
RUTHLESS HORDERS WttDCNPAV0fc To 
CKUSU those &0M LoWEfcTHArt 
iHEMSfLVtS ANP SYSTEMATICALLY QOENCH WRY MO ^AL OR
LB JD HEF m Mof
gVlL , OMNIPOTENT
cT$$kM'
GEE, iou'ft m CbFat \
SOAIWW 
FORA 
V-MrfP 
COHlC 
STRIP/, 
\
Zurk <-------------
AH. WMAT JOY TRAYIN& BRINGS TO THE HEART IN TUE WINTERTIME.
by Nabil Liumang
WHAT SENSATIONS TO rEAST 
UPON. WIND FLOWING 6Y YOUR 
GRACEFUL, STREAKUNED coCn
X
WE WANT MORE COMIC STRIPS!!!!
Can you draw? Are you funny? If you can do either 
one of these things, you may have what it takes 
to do a comic strip for the Tartan. We are looking 
to greatly increase the number of student produc
ed strips in our funnies section. If you are interested 
in writing and/or drawing a strip, come to the Tar
tan Art Staff meeting Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the 
Tartan main offices.

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 1986The TartanPage 27
Poindexter
l U*0 & JUg 
vo\wveVfctATi^I u Pj
nw fwCng 
i sseu
iV\ I ^ ^-iM vi \V
INVWTPIP 
. Y*3 DD?|Ki 0TO2- A.
y>u
] >Aecew
r\ HEfcOKne/
The Digressional 
Choice
by Seth Eliot 
& Mike McHughInkspotsby Kurt Shaw
WW\\m\
I rm>nr
Hello, UCC? My user just crashed
OPuS/VtKlOUS.' HMYoueeeN ThistlOUT OF YOUR (TMNESIA ?WHAT PO 'YOU REMEMBER ? TUI US , ephaschogI wwrme '
-mewmftcrjws
hf srnt dhoysgCI NEUER ALLOW
fhg ime hf
Vi OF5MAUISHSTATURE..
HE HEARP AN
SgghyShot gSzhgsWHAT THAT PIANE SAWYERHfiPPENEP? HAP MARRJEP., He'S HAP AI sSggnpiS uGm709
BUT WE PtPN'T PANIC... we HAP PROFESSIONALeneRbeNCY SBnz.SysAW, OF COURSE. I HAPzedLSg exceueHTEMERGENCY PROVISIONS...
I... 1 REMEMBER EVeRYTHINO NOW., me ANP CUTTER JOHN... WE SfLASHep mjN souewneRe IN THEATLANTIC...
oh mveuoN hf .nyS 9 
vTSgsoS fihBSg so fnyS 
eii U/STENm PEVU 
AM? BRIOHT SUNSHINE...
THEWHAT*PEAR PANPEUON OF MINE, WELL R!PeNP WITH vm mJLP YOU SO TERRIBLY MNP 
CANNEP MILK CANNEP HAM, CANNEP Re/wes. CANNeP QUICHE..
.WOULP YOU
.nyznS we znySzlmmtzePOEM
FOR THE FIRST FEU , PAYS. THE TERRKHE
gSeinsC hf hog nmrBEirAN TO STRAIN s OUR FORM. : >Y / UOSE PEL A-/VON SHIP./
NO/NO.'IT HAS TV BE MENTAL SOME AWFUL. TRAUMATIC. JOLTNO SHOCK TO HISsenses..
ITU PROBABLY TAKE SOME SORT HOW OF JOLT TO ABOUT AJOb HIS BASEBALL BATMEMORY TO THe HeAP 7
. ITS ABOUT TIMEI ms, OPUS SNAPPEP OUT OF Ct2rER HIS AMNESIA ANP TOLP JOHN. US WHAT HAPPENEP\ ON THEIR U-FATEP\ BAC100N TRIP
PIANE SAWYER /AARRieP ewte MURPHY TOPAY..
NO BUT MAY lAbAm OFFER ANOTHER PROFOUNP APOU&y FOR KAY GMF17:3i WERSRRfTMFoteermo m srvptp\ CM OPENER'
ANY NIBBLES PtNK-BRAtN *URE
WHAT'
BLOOM COUNTY ffl Student Dormitory Council by Berke Breathed

---------------------------------------------------

UNITED 
TECHNOLOGIES
High technology is the common denominator of all we do.
Success...
United Technologies Finding Another Curie at CMU
On January 14th, United 
Technologies sponsored an open 
house in the Skibo Ballroom open to 
all CMU students. Edward Sutton, a 
representative of the Sikorsky Division 
of United Technologies, hosted the 
evening, which was designed to em
phasize the career opportunities 
available at United Technologies.
The open house included displays 
from UTCs four major industries: 
building systems, aerospace, elec
tronics and automotive. Represen
tatives spoke with many interested 
students about United Technologies
programs.
United Technologies is a broad-based 
designer & manufacturer of hightechnology products. Employing over 
205,000 people, the Corporation 
operates about 300 plants, and main
tains sales and service offices in about 
50 countries.
