Vol. 1, No. 1CARNEGIE MELLON - UNIVERSITYFRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1969
CRAZES 
CAMPUS
Communications broke down. Channels clogged. Con
frontations raised blood pressures and tempers as RIOT shook 
the C-MU campus.
The incident started surprisingly as disrupters occupied 
the Machine Room of the Scaife Hall Computation Center. 
The G-21 and IBM 360 were brainwashed, their printers be
ing forced to spew out propaganda by the ream. The 1108 
was fed a program to print broadsides: rebelling against the 
anti-establishmentarian indignity, the brain blew its mind 
and is now capable only of babbling incoherent error state
ments and (three times daily) FEED ME!
The action then moved to the Porter and Baker Hall 
classrooms. Classes were disrupted as people came in, shout
ed the instructors out of the room, and summarily dismissed 
classes. (It is well noted that as soon as the disrupter left, the 
students sought out their instructor and reconvened class in 
all but a few cases.)
Shortly after noon, an unidentified force entered Hamerschlag Hall and blew a main fuse, plunging the campus 
into physical (for a change) darkness. During the power out
age the entire contents of the Skibo lunch line congealed in 
the ovens and steam tables; conservative estimates are that it 
will take at least a week to.free the food preparation equip
ment. Morewood. uneffected, will serve meals for the entire 
campus, in shifts.
Shortly after lunch, best estimates are 3 o'clock, when 
all administrators had returned to their offices, mysterious 
phone calls summoned the top echelon to the conference 
room on the sixth floor of Warner Hall. The television was 
on and the administration was treated to a living color broad
cast of the insurrection. Suddenly, the elevator was jammed 
between floors and the officials were trapped. No one knows 
whether the stairs were also blocked; after all. it s a six floor 
walk.
- A spokesman appeared in the conference room at three 
fifteen. He called himself the chairman of the Ad Hoc Com
mittee (for what it was never learned). He presented the fol
lowing list of non-negotiable demands: 1) Lowering hem
lines and shortening haircuts: 2i Abolition of all race require
ments for admission, also abolition of squash requirements, 
and hand-writing tests: 3) Creating new administrative posts 
of radical-in-residence and reactionary-in-residence. the jobs I 
to include full salary, private offices, and an arena for use by 
the two new officials for mutual conferences: 4) No more 
hours for men. women, or classes: 5) Recognition of both Stu
dent Government and Faculty Senate, to be accomplished by 
hanging a picture of each in the Warner Hall elevator so ev-| 
lerybody will know them and be able to recognize them, and 
6) Absolute amnesty for all participants.
The spokesman was seized by an alert Security Patrolman, I 
who had heard the TV while passing and decided to watch | 
the tube.
The administration slyly acquiesced to the amnesty, pro-1 
vided that all rioters would assemble in the Skibo Ballroom 
for a Ceremony of Pardon. After concealing Security Off
icers and City Police, nefariously disguised as pillars, they 
[prepared to make the critical arrests. The complete personnel 
of the disruption filed in. He was arrested, arraigned before 
[a magistrate, and is presently in Allegheny County Jail await
ing trial. Officials commented that the case would be placed 
| at the head of the docket and should be dispatched within 
three or four years. The Lone Rioter has gained permission 
to take courses in absentia and should graduate well before | 
kthe trial.

---------------------------------------------------

IHK Ski BO PROG R Affi-311 
COM .MITT Kk IHKSKkiBOPRG 
UCZll IJOl'k 
1\X I\)lb
CAARNNNECG
SYHRDAY, MARCH 2V AT 
KSO IN INK OM I' liAU.ROOM 
I'lCKK I S S2.50 - S I I'DI-.N' I S SI 
SkllU) IXhORMA I ION Ul-.Sk
Page 2THE CART ANFriday, March 28, 1969Admissions Office Announces 
No Applications Received 
For Freshman Class of '69
Photo by Freddy Flashcube
RATC Closes The 
Radical Gap
It showed in Chicago; it was underscored in Washington at the 
counter-inauguration; the enemy has been cashing in on it for years. 
It was part of the downfall of Resurrection City. The radical activ
ists do not have the trained leadership and personnel skilled in tactics, 
strategy, and weaponry to carry out their non-violent and confrontative revolution. The U.S. is far behind other countries in this field; the 
trained Marxists of the Sorbonne brought France to its knees and held 
it there for weeks.
To close the radical-gap, a group of strong-willed individuals 
have petitioned for and organized a Department of Revolution to be 
known as RATC, the Radical Activist Training Cadre. The program 
will be sponsored by the University, but the faculty and facilities 
will all be provided by RATC. The Radical-in-Residence will have 
full faculty status, and will, of course, be approved by the regular fac
ulty.
The curriculum will include both classwork and field exercises. 
Some of the texts will be Das Kapital, the diaries of Che, Danny (the 
Red) Cohn-Bendit, Marcuse, Mao, and Ho. The weekly drills will in
clude special marches through Oakland and Downtown and holidays 
(Marxs birthday, July 26, May Day). There will be an advanced corps 
which will hold mock confrontations (in co-operation with the Renta-Cops) in Schenley Park and Warner Hall.
The department has already been flooded with applicants. Ac
cording to one of the organizers, George de la Jongle, This was the 
ideal campus of which to start the pilot program. The spirit is here; 
it just needs to be channeled. In four years we will have the first class 
of professional revolutionaries going out to tear up the reactionary, 
fascists, establishment pigs. Comnjents amoung the campus radi
cals were wow and toomuch; here!
Up for department head will be either Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Ru
bin, Rennie Davis, or Bobby Deale, whomever is released first from 
prison terms meted out for last Augusts performance. Tom Havden 
declined the offer, Im too buy pulling the chain of the HUAC to de
vote the proper effort to this position.
RATC has been given facilities in Skibo Gym and Margie Murph, 
formerly used by ROTC. Now that the Military Establishment has 
been displaced, there is room for pursuits more suited for the campus.
Among the earliest to sign up for the program were former mem
bers of the Military Science Department. Now we can put our fight
ing training to use for a good cause. They plan to organize their own 
brigade of brigands once the course gets into full swing.
Photo by U.S.I.S.Lyndon Johnson Accepts 
Professorship At C-MU
Former President Lyndon Baines Johnson has 
accepted a full professorship at C-MU. He will be 
teaching "Recent Mistakes in American Foreign 
Policy or How I Played an Important Role in 
Screwing the World.
President Johnson was expected to teach at the 
University of Texas, which he owns, in Lady Birds 
name. He recently decided that since he could not 
achieve a higher position in that school, he would 
attempt to take over other sections of the country. 
Therefore, he has come to C-MU. There are pre
dictions that he will become president of the Uni
versity as well as Mayor of the city within a cou$ 
pie of weeks.
The University offered Mr. Johnson a teaching 
assistant of his own choice. The rationale was that 
so many students will sign up for the course in or
der to hear that famous Texas drawl (if nothing 
else), that he will be unable to grade all the exams.
Yesterday. Mr. Johnson announced that he has 
appointed Senator Eugene McCarthy, an old and 
close friend, as his assistant. In a statement releas
ed to the Cartan, Mr. McCarthy said that he was 
a little hesitant about accepting the position.
Of course, it will be a great honor to work 
with our former President. I admire him a great 
deal and totally agree with the policies he pursued 
during his administration. Yet, I am worried about 
all the campus disruptions that have occurred at 
C-MU in the past few months. Those who protest 
the war are immoral, dispicable people. I do not 
know if I will be able to grade them objectively.
When asked why he accepted the position, Pres
ident Johnson said, I love students. And there is 
no greater institution of learning in the areas of 
humanity and government in this country. Where 
else could I possibly go?
Hubert Humphrey, it was learned by a snoopy 
Cartan reporter, was also considered for the assis
tant position. But, he smiles too much. according 
to one administrator. Also, the fact that too many 
students were stimulated by his lectures at the Uni
versity of Minnesota entered into the decision. 
We wouldn't want to rob U-M of a good thing.
The Admissions Office announced today that no applications have been received for next years 
freshman class. I guess we wont have to worry about giving freshmen women no hours, said the head of 
the office.
The New College was cited as one reason why no freshmen applied. High school seniors feel that 
the program is too restrictive and that they will not receive an education here. Courses such as the Liter
ary Imagination will stifle their creativity, one admissions officer said was a complaint he heard around 
the country. They do not like the idea of Pass/Fail either. One senior commented: Grades area necessary 
part of the educational process.
The reputation of the Engineering School has also come under fire. Future engineers feel that there 
are too few required courses in the engineering departments. They want less freedom in choosing their 
courses. I want to learn formulas and they want me to become educated, one high schooler complained. 
Other future applicants have indicated that there are not enough computers on campus. Other schools 
have key-punch machines in every room.
Prospective applicants to the Fine Arts School have also been disillusioned. There is so much 
smoke in the building that I would not be able to see in order to paint, an applicant complained. Also, the 
building was felt to be to clean and sterile. I could not be creative there.
The Admissions Office said that many applicants were turned off by the fact that boys did not have 
to wear coats and ties to class and girls were not required to wear skirts. What kind of hole is this? It looks 
like derelect village. Others lamented the fact that boys did not have crewcuts. There is nobody that I 
saw that I would want to go out with here. What happened to the good old Ivy League imag'e? One girl 
complained.
The social life at C-MU was cited as another reason why nobody applied here. There are too many 
parties during the week, and freshmen seem to feel that they could not find enough time for studying. 
There are too few rules in Morewood, an applicant said. Another commented: My parents would never 
let me live here.
So wht happens now that there will be no freshmen class next year? The Admissions Office in 
Warner Hall will officially close May 30. When you come back next year you will find a fully carpeted 
student lounge in this space. President Stever, the Board of Trustees, and Deans will be available at all

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 28, 1969THE CARTANPag 3
VVo
NNBUONIMLOj^.thispon
ouxortrpoSi 
it to a slab of 
vAfood:
FIHANCKM. 
NBU O
CARNEEGI M LOI 
 
(+V>
Hjii| ,| imnuui iSfc^little conical
herb
MVVfi^D C TU-15 is TMrE LAST -UVOSTO
yoULL WAvVE TO B>OY ) \
a. 4' length csf copper tubing 
rm.ke. sure thajt "it is str&'icfcht 
caj\d tV\ev.\ you-'re not.'). pu.t the mi I 
with the. hat m the. tube and b\ow.
^ C see FIG,. 2^^__________________________________ _____J
U NOW 5 tM \
( ^ ^ ^ 1 pR-OTe^^T ETWC
W ^ FASHION, YOU W l LL_
Yo moNCmuou nimc Matsbrmk
UA.^OC^..
w <* *< jg^iqgg]
by shootirv^ r\a.'ils act the ta.r<2,
youL mocie m step jL. the bjsgf tke. 
p'v^ VJOUL stick. 3 iKe TT\3fe points you. 
f*> V\\g^ Scorer -first toke,
e^- -b be WilWr scorer i
pucker up., mother
CARN EGIML NO-UVS CAM MTCYMMGomIu NnicGL
relevance op -mis VNW3LE pCARN
eGo dw.h.l ig
UVS OAens they shoc^, Vfe//)/_/ 
in their fipaIeyG 
rr HCmCf21oG RNo v lai/w ( 
\wmEDiatelv i >s2ea

---------------------------------------------------

atsbr
Page 4THE CARTANFriday, March 28, 1969
FBI Declares Tech Campus 
"Clean of Narcotics and Drugs"
Local Freaks Cop Playboy Awards
Two C-MU students have been 
cited by Playboy Magazine as 
the best dressed couple on Am
erican campuses. Duane Stud and 
Polly Prep received the awards 
yesterday.
See what you can do with just 
a little money, Duane said. I
got the pants free. I found them in 
the Beta Sigma Rho garbage 
house. All decorations on them 
were accumulated from whereever I happened to sit down. 
The shirt came, not from Brooks 
Brothers, but from St. Vincent de 
Pauls. And it only cost 2 cents 
prices have gone up these days. 
The jacket I confiscated from a 
basket of clothes that was be
ing sent to Biafra. It wasnt 
worth the shipping expenses. And 
I put everything together and 
look what I got  the best-dress
ed award.
Polly Prep commented that she 
gave up Weejuns and knee socks 
years ago  and that it was the 
best thing she ever did. Its 
great to be free of all those stupid 
conventions. And it takes me onehalf hour less to get dressed in 
the morning.
Not only did CMU receive the 
honor for best dressed, but it al
so received the honor of having 
one of its students on the Worst 
Dressed List. Dressed in coat and 
tie, looking like the All-American 
wonder, Sam Slop commented on 
his award. Those Playboy peo
ple aint got no taste, he said.
a Photo by Polaroid
Best-dressed man on campus, caught at his favorite leisure spot with
MORBID RECORD
As a result of the recent report 
of the Federal Bureau of Insti
gation (FBI), the Carnegie-Mellon University Campus has been 
declared Clean of any forms 
of narcotics or harmful drugs. 
FBI agents, and their dogs, con
ducted an extensive prowl of the 
entire campus area, including
some parts of Squirrel Hill, Oak
land, and Devon Road, in their 
unsuccessful search for drugs.
Agent Ying-Yang said, We 
foist got de ideah for dis here 
soich when somebody said dat 
dese kids here at dis school got 
some of de longest hair deyd 
nevah seen. An you know how we
feel about dose hipped-up types. 
The FBI agents first started their 
search in about September, dis
guising themselves as students. 
They felt that the best camouflage 
was a black raincoat, a white shirt, 
black pants, and black shoes. Some 
wore hats for further disguise.
We posed as students. We even 
went to ROTC classes to make it 
look really authentic, Agent Hershey said. The only difficulty 
with this whole operation was that 
there seemed to be a generation gap 
It was hard to talk with the stu
dents, keeping the image of col
lege students ourselves. We 
found we had nothing in common. 
All they ever talk about is pot
tery and shrubbery. The aver
age age of all the FBI agents on 
campus was about eighty-two.
By the middle of March, the 
agents had found no discernable 
evidence of either drug usage 
or drug business on the CMU cam
pus. We were sort of disappoint
ed one of the agents said. But 
its a damn good thing that we 
didnt find anything, because 
BOYOHBOYOHBOY if we 
HAD!
Morewood Adopts 
Open House Policy
Get your guns ready, boys, be
cause Morewood is now open for 
busihess. Starting this Sunday, 
the new Dormitory Open House 
Policy will go into effect. Girls 
living in double or triple rooms of 
Morewood Gardens will be able 
to have male visitors, or CMU 
boys if they want to, as their 
guests. Girls living in single rooms 
are not eligible for this privilege. 
This is because, as Lord Gay, 
head of the Housing Office put it, 
'Girls who live in single rooms 
shouldnt throw stones.
There are, as to be expected, a 
certain number of rules attached 
to this new plan. The number is 
twelve. These new rules will be 
posted in each girls room, in a 
conspicuous place, on the bath
room doors, behind the fire ex
tinguishers, in the elevator shaft, 
under the tables in the cafeteria, 
in the housemothers closet, and in 
big neon lights all across the front 
of Morewood Gardens. The 
Housing Office hopes that these 
rules are heeded, as they are for 
the ultimate well being of each 
and every young lady who lives 
in this dormitory, as Lord Gay 
put it.
Photo by Chance
Sam Slop, caught at one os his frequent hangouts by our roving fashion 
fotographer.
This past weekends monthly 
fire - drill at Morbid Garbage 
found 5 CMU coeds, 15 frat boys 
(3:1 ratio Lovejoys College 
Guide) and 4 housemothers in
habiting the dorm.
Well, actually it was all 
terribly embarrassing, said one 
of the boys, The curlers in my 
hair were not at all flattering.
The joy on the faces of the 
housemothers was explained by 
one who said Twenty students 
in Morbid is rather encouraging. 
Morals are obviously on the upswimg-last months fire drill only 
routed 3 girls.
The five coeds when ques
tioned said in unison, We know 
nothing  nothing.
Upon further questioning one 
girl did admit she was rather up
set at the Universitys proposal
to close Morbid because of lack 
of inhabitants. After all, the 
campus grapevine would be posi
tively stifled if the communica
tion center were closed. And be
sides, where would I put my books 
at night?
Another stollie commented that 
she couldnt possibly survive with
out all the closet space at Mor
bid. The place where I usually 
stay at night doesnt have 
enough room for all my make
up.
The security guard on duty 
was a little upset. All these 
girls in the dorm do make my 
job a little bit tougher, he said. 
But with a look of renewed de
termination he added, Ill just 
have to read some more Batman 
comics to catch up on the latest 
crime fighting techniques.

---------------------------------------------------

Fine Arts Building 
Nears J une Completion
The Fine Arts Building wilh be completed this June, according 
to a statement released by the administration today. The construction 
company released information on the contract. Construction for the 
building will begin this July.
The administration promised that all building projects will be 
completed by next September. This includes the new Skibo, new dorm
itories, new classroom buildings, a new computer center, a new cut, a 
new library. Where will the money come from? It was discovered by 
a Cartan reporter that Sarah Mellon Scaife has been dead for years 
and that the will stipulated that the University could not claim the 
money until now. Therefore, working for the students, the adminis
tration and the trustees have decided to use the money for projects 
that concern the students.
It was also discovered that the fraternity complex will not be 
built on the former Beta Sigma Rho site. Rather, they will be housed 
in the Greekrevival Mellon Institute. The structure of this building 
will prevent any outside forces (cops) from invading weekend frat 
parties.
The New Skibo, which was originally planned for the top of the 
present one, cannot be built where it was proposed due to the fact that 
the present Skibo is sinking into the tennis courts. Therefore, the New 
Skibo will be built on the site of the Hunt Library.
Why are these men smiling? 
Probably because they know that 
you dont know who they are, so 
you cant blame anything on them.
In the public interest we are 
announcing a contest. The first 
person to correctly identify these 
men (full names and titles) and 
mail his entry to Cartan Branch 
Office, Epson Downs, Bunts W. 
C. 1, Surrey, will receive a free 
subscription to next years Cartan, 
delivered to the Tartan Grill.
Why are these men smiling? 
Probably because they know you 
dont know them, so you cant pin 
anything on them.
Identify all five men, giving 
their full names and positions. 
Mail your entry to the Cartan 
Branch Office, 35 Tavistock Rd., 
Epson Down^, Bunts W. C. No, 1, 
Surrey.
First correct entry receives a 
free years subscription to this 
newspaper, delivered to the Tar
tan Grill.
Skibo Expels 
Undesirables
Because of the increasing num
ber of undersirables ever-pres
ent in the Skibo facilities, making 
it difficult to conduct a normal 
way of life, there will be a new 
policy regarding non-students on 
the C - MU campus. From the 
hours of 5 p.m. until closing time, 
all non-students, including dogs, 
hippies, children, blacks, grown
ups, greens, American Indians, 
rabbits, faculty, administration, 
and staff, are cordially invited to 
stay out of Skibo. Any and every
one attempting to enter the 
squeeky doors of the Snack Bars 
inner sanctum will be stopped, 
carded, charged with conspiracy, 
and most likely hung by his ten
nis shoes.
The purpose of this new policy 
is, obviously, to keep undesir
ables out of the Snack Bar. What 
will be left will be a nice, homo
genous group of C-MU engineers 
stopping in the "restaurant to 
get a bite to eat.
Sororities Get 
New Houses
Because of the widespread in
terest and participation in the so
rority system of Carnegie-Mellon 
University, the administration has 
passed a proposal by the Pan-Hel 
Council to grant each sorority 
their own house. Minnie Minowski, president of the Pan-Hel 
Council, explained that over
crowding on the sorority floors 
was causing a great deal of dis
tress among the girls. "There just 
wasn't enough room for all of us 
girls and whatnot on those tiny 
little floors. she said.
The administration felt that be
cause the sororities have added so 
much to the school in the way of 
social, cultural, and moral contri
butions, they should get the best 
in the way of new housing. An 
all-out evacuation plan for De
von Rd. will get underway some
time during the summer,.and by 
the fall of 1969. the sororities will 
be living in six of the larger hous
es at the top of the hill. President 
Stever has graciously offered his 
house at 1045 Devon Rd. as the 
official Sorority Mascot Man
sion," where the sorority dogs 
will live.
Super Contest
Friday, March 28, 1969THE CARTANPag 5
Photos by Secret Agent 1.25
Hayakawa Appointed 
New Dean of Students
Sam Hayakawa, formerly president of San Francisco State Col
lege, has been named new Dean of Students. His reputation of under
standing the needs and problems of students has made him a desirable 
candidate for the job.
I am pleased and gratified by the offer, he said. The students 
at C;MU are congenial with my point of view. I dont anticipate any 
trouble here. There are no riots, no protests. It will be a welcome 
change.
The administration, commenting on the recent appointment, said 
that they chose Hayakawa because of his ability to handle students. 
"We were looking for a man who would be able to reflect the students 
attitudes accurately to us.ile is the best man for the job.
Students were asked to comment on their opinions of the new liason. "We are so glad hes coming. We welcome him with open arms. 
Now we know that we will be heard. And if anything does happen 
around here, we are confident that he will not call in the police. 
Thats a great thing to know.
The position of Dean of Students is becoming one of increasing 
importance on campuses around the country. If the Dean is a good 
one, he is able to prevent many unhappy events. Mr. Hayakawa has a 
reputation for being able to prevent campus disorders; students were 
successfully calmed at San Francisco State by his efforts on their 
behalf.
In the words of a Hollywood precedessor, I was educated in your 
county, and I look foahwald to coming back........and running it.
ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
SHUTTLE BUS
APRIL 2nd$1.25
Name..................................................................... TO
Address_______________________________ 
TIME: 12:00 3:00 4:45 A
? CARCNE GIE pay
PICK-UP POINT: Morewood Donnor *N A^ANCE
ACIRCLEONE WHEN YOU BO AUDI
SEND TO: ? ?
A PHI O  Box 100, Campus Mail
O CALL: Steve Oliphant, 687-4242 or 621-2600, ext. 595
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
391i FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
(YOU ARE)
LOVE I BIAFRA 
BIAFRA LOVE1
 DUGGAN FLAHERTY 
FLAHERTY DUGGAN 
BEFORE AFTER 
DUGGAN FILM 
NONSENSE DUGGAN 
Kf OBSCENE I OBSCENE
BROTHERHOOD
 212 OAKLAND AVENUE  OAKLAND
expressive clothes & people

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE CART ANFriday, March 28, 1969
'6996Sp 9r 9i6 6ng9rS
CRAZRES
UTTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY
Eclitof-in-Chief
Editor-in-Brave...............................................-...................Wa Kettle
Editor-in-Squaw..............................................................................Kettle
Edi for-in-Papoose.................................................................Suffocating
Assistant Tent Editor..................................... . Choo-Choo Charley
Smoke-Signals Editor............................................little Annie Fannie
Trips Editor.........................................................Martha Washington
Assistant Trips Editor................................... ...........Francis Moron
Lay-in Editor....................................................... ..............Emily Post
Local Pushing Staff.......................................................Paul Krasner,
Guyford Stever, and Alfred E. Newman 
National Pushing Staff.....................................................Tricky Dicky
What a Gas! ... and God created ROTC
Editor, the Cartan:
I have been meaning to write 
this for a long time, but somehow 
the opportunity has never arisen 
... until now.
Suddenly, in a flash, like light
ening out of the sky. I had an in
spiration. My inspiration said to 
me: Me! Write a letter to the 
editor of the Cartan! So I says 
to.my inspiration.  Inspiration! 
That's a damn good idea!"
So here I am, at my dear old 
typewriter, rambling away, foam
ing at the mouth, and wondering 
how I can possibly say this thing 
to you that I want to say.
Well. I just decided that no 
matter what, nows the time, and
Editor, The Cartan:
I am shocked. Truly, mortally, 
indignantly shocked. How in 
ROTCs name can you people do 
this to us? Here, on this campus, 
a fine, upstanding, moral campus 
such as this . . . RATC. What is 
this world coming to?
In the beginning, when God 
created the sun and the moon, he 
also created ROTC. It is a part
heres the place, and this it it. 
man. Like, here's the thing, man. 
Were all in this thing together, 
you know? And, well, I just got
ta tell you that I think that this 
newspaper is really a gas. Yeah, 
man. you're really a gassssss ...
Love and kisses.
Minnie Minowski
of our inheritance. It is a part of 
our life. We cannot destroy a part 
of our life. God said: Thou shalt 
not kill. He meant, Thou shalt 
not kill ROTC. The new replace
ment for ROTC, so adorably 
named RATC has no bearing 
whatsover on real life. What does 
Radical Activist Training Ca
dre mean, anyway? When you 
compare it to the beauty of the 
words Reserve Officers Training 
Corps, those other words ring a 
sour note. They must be erased 
from our vocabulary, and the or
ganization must be wiped from 
the face of the earth. We must 
kill the the members off. How 
else can we gain harmony and 
peace in this world?
Signed, 
Major Major Major
Photo by Bill Pence and His Three-Penny Super Cameria v? 
Assembled for the first time anywhere, the August Body of the Uni versity poses for a family portrait. Arent they adorable.

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 28, 1969THE CARTANPage 7
Spring Carnival Smash
Spring Carnival will feature 
the top entertainment in the coun
try. Starring the Beatles, the Roll
ing Stones, Yoko Ono in bared 
breasts and DiOnne Warwick, 
Johnny Carson, Frank Sinatra, 
Bill Cosby, the Smothers Broth
ers, the Laugh-In Cast, and the 
Mission Impossible Chorus, Pres
ident Stever in a Kilt, and Dean 
Swank in shorts, the Carnival 
weekend promises to be better 
than ever.
The buggy races will be cov
ered by Weekend Sports over 
NBC. Sigma Nu and ATO have 
combined to smash PiKas rec
ord. Combining ATOs oft sus
pected propulsion system, a fly 
wheel and a force-speed, and Sig\na Nus peerless caliper disc 
Brakes, they project a new rec
ord of 2:00.
Publicity is not necessary due 
to the overwhelming enthusiasm 
and understanding of "Serendi
pity. Attendance from all parts 
of the University community is 
guaranteed.
Winners of the plank joust wili 
represent the U.S. against the Rus
sians in the 1972 Olympics. Win
ners of the faculty egg-toss will 
receive a full professorship. Of 
course, it must be realized that 
the rules for the faculty egg toss 
have been revised. First the fac
ulty must lay the egg. Then they 
must hatch it.
Asaortr nllpgiate $Irm
ALL-AMERICAN NEWSPAPER CRITICAL SERVICE
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
TY oSRCmYNuNCY Cn Nui cSoNui Ni ataosSs
3Ftrat (Mafia Bonnr Eating
NY ubS rCouk eSNmbub EauNCYad EStiVaVSo IoNuNRad wSo.NRS Cn ubS hiiCRNauSs ICddSmNauS loSii 
au ubS gYN.SoiNuk Cn NYYSiCuaG wRbCCd Cn fCAoYadNicG ubNi rNnuSSYub sak Cn aoRbG pyLH2
ATTENTION 
SENIOR GIRLS
Grossingers has recently 
announced their up and com
ing stupendously swinging 
singles weekend. Dont 
spend one more date night 
alone in the dorm!
For further information, 
contact:
LIZ ... 682-6969
The Food and Drug Administration has awarded the Good House
keeping Seal of Approval to the Food Service of Carnegie-Mellon 
University for its High Esteem and Bravery Above and Beyond the 
Call of Dirty.
Mr. Alfonso Buckoff, head of the Food Management Service, ac
cepted the Award with a curtsy and this comment: Gee, Tanks.
The Award, which is an exact replica of a plastic Skibo tray, has 
inscribed on its surface: This is to certify that the Food Management 
Service of Carnegie-Mellon University has succeeded in maintaining 
the same quality in its food that it always has maintained. Congratula
tions, Guys.
The plaque will be hung next to the memorial plaque of Ger
trudes finger, in the trophy case of the upstairs mens room.This is not an assistant professor securing a promotion from his depart
ment head, regardless of what youve been told.
Nationally reknowned critic passes judgment on the Skibo fare. His 
verdict: quality isnt everything.Food Service Gets Award
Coeds Complain
Social Life Overwhelming
Since the recent elimination of television sets and pool, bride and 
ping-pong tables from the mens dorms, the Dorm Rats have become a 
bunch of regular swingers. Morewood girls are dated up weeks in ad
vance and dates are a seven day a week event.
Concern about the physical health of the students resulting from 
the lack of sleep has caused the local branch of the American Mendi
cant Association to force the University to declare the weekends a 
mandatory rest period.
Because of the daily socializing, class attendance has hit an all 
time low. Many courses were, therefore, eliminated and the surplus 
teachers were fired on the charge that a bird in the hand is worth 
two in the bush.
Morewood girls complain that continual dating .leaves no time to 
do the wash. I have nothing left to wear, cried one coed, and that 
is detrimental to the code of dress enforeced by the administration. 
Trip Magazine now rates C-MU the Fort Lauderdale of the tri
state area.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE CARTANFriday, March 28, 1969
No More Tuition! 
Trustees To Pay
The trustees have always realized the benefits of education. They 
are now aware of the disparity of resources between themselves and 
students, along with the far greater need of students. They have been 
sold on the benefits of the timple life, and the efficacy the cahrity 
write-off on the tax form. They have, therefore, voted unanimously to 
do away with tuition charges and absorb the cost among themselves. 
The net cost will be about six thousand dollars per trustee, excluding 
the ex officio trustees, a paltry gum to any captain of business or in
dustry.
The decision took less time than was expected. John Mellifluous, 
under-director of Financial Servitude, presented a graphic display of 
students income and need profiles and trustees income versus need. 
The figures did the taling through the mellow ages. Without hesistation, a motion was presented, and passed.
The assesment of costs, like the doling of scholarships, will be 
done by need, using the income tax test. The donors gross income, 
less living allowance, is computed. From this is subtracted the income 
of which he pays taxes. He then donates ten per cent of the remainder 
to the University. Projections are that this will not only meet the cost 
of operation normally borne by tuition, but will leave a surplus, which 
will be added to the endowment fund.
Students were elated at the news. Parties and celebrations choked 
the campus and kept lights burning until dawn in the droms and fra
ternity houses. The only better news would be abolition of the draft, 
said one enthusiastic male student. A faculy member was overheard 
to say, I guess we can really play with exams, now. These kids need 
something to maintain their anxiety quotient.Rememberance of times past.
kTed wd.h NUlegf 
VT pbty gleg Ht2d l2.1ebaB. -sd.g be3T s. 
Mayedah 
Lt6Tf 0,N
Photo by Gourdy Lockmeistre 
The radical activist establishment protests the industrial-personal se
curity establishment.
Great Green Gobs
Previously the Psychology Department was forced to close its 
doors to any psych transfer hopefuls becuase of the shortage of teach
ers for the required Experimental Psychology course.
But thanks to the earnest efforts of the dusty inhabitants of Hamerschlag Hall, a new corps of teachers have been hired, and the Psych 
Department is now wide open.
The Green Men Have Done It! In their spare time when not shin
ing Hamerschlags nose (see plaque at entrance to Baker Hall) they 
have been busily at work spawning humanoid robots to functions as 
C-MU professors. They have quietly been working on this project for 
years and have secretly passed off Frank Moron as a real live man. 
One of the green men modestly said, We have to make allowances 
for himafter all he was our first creation.
Wretched Excesses: Blocked by 
USAC reactionaries, Any Granitelli has abandoned attempts to 
introduce turbine power to Indy. 
He has turned, instead, to the 
prestigious C-MU buggy races, 
with the outlandish Tom Slick 
sporting an inverted Lotus Wedge, 
and, of course, STP.
TEENAGERS! ! ! ! !
Photo by Six pence

---------------------------------------------------

c-sbe88H le::TbTa( ClT 1sr re3T TbaTa ysgl e 1srrTd 6sUgtdHh Ng2aTbg. edT UT8T1degsbr 
tb glT -sbT edg. 8eyb eba glT )dTbg.F edT gt..sbr -ds.1TT. tb glT U2gh ClT .UsTbgs.g. edT eg glT 
wT88tb cb.gsg2gT UT8T1degsbr glT 6sUgtdH ylsUl :dt6Ta glT 6e82T tglTsd dT6t82gstbedH .:tdg. as.D
Ut6TdHh Ng2aTbg. edT rtsbr gt U8e..T. eba Vs88sT eg glT A s. .t1Tdh ClT 6sUgtdH le. sb.:sdTa tglTd 
equally amazing events. The Tar
tan has put out a great issue. The 
1108 has refused to compile a pro
gram.
After years of being ridiculed 
and playing second class compe
tition and rarely breaking .500, 
the Tech cagers have advanced to 
the top of the
(continued on page 19)
Tartans Crash Big Ten
f)L LETZT
Raymond Jockmeister, direc
tor of Competitive Training (for
merly athletics) has announced 
C-MUs intention to finally join 
an athletic conference. Were 
bidding for a seat in the Big Ten. 
Plans are to change the confer
ence name to the Big 10.5. 
Going big time will require 
new facilities. Of course well 
need a new stadium to handle the 
crowds; Tech Bowl has been in
adequate for years. He plans to 
use Pitt Stadium in the interim. 
The Panthers dont need it any
how.
The Tartan questioned Mr. 
Jockmeister about recruiting 
competitors and keeping them 
for four years. The school does
nt give scholarships, but the
promise of four years of free, unlimited-seconds Skibo meals 
should be sufficient to lure can
didates away from most other 
schools, particularly swimmers 
and trak men. There are also 
plans for an all sports dorm with 
such luxuries as beds and indoor 
plumbing. Funds for the new 
structure, highest on the list of 
priorities, will be diverted from 
the new Fine Arts complex, Stever Hall.
We asked whether the TAR+ 
TANS would be able to maintain 
their fantastic winning record 
among stiff competition. It 
makes no difference. If Pitt and 
the University of Maryland can 
do it so can we. We expect to real
ly improve in some areas, like 
swimming.
Friday, March 28, 1969THE CART ANPage 9
Cheerleaders Drafted By Green Gay Packers
IM Review
Dont jump!
IM WHALES TALES 
byD. C.
ATO copped the IM whales 
tails trophy last Saturday night in 
the SAE basement. ATO, the win
ner of the Iron City league, was 
chugging an experienced SAE 
squad which had finished first in 
the Bud division. Because of the 
significance of the event, Hapless 
Beta Harold was chosen to offici
ate the contest and insure that the 
rules were properly violated.
There were few exciting inci
dents in the beginning of the 
match as Harry whistled infrac
tions such as hitting your team
mate to help him passout with 
your elbow and playing the game 
with illegal drinks (including 
dacquiries and bourbon). After 
five hours, the only three contest
ants were left standing  and 
one was an ATO. The victory blow 
was administered by a disgrun
tled DG who hopped over the
SwimmingTearn 
Wins Twice
Be An Athletic Supporter 1 ASK ALLA
The Tartan sports staff publishes all letters, questions and epi
thets entirely censored, bowdlerized and reconstituted to protect the 
morals of our university in loco Miss Priscilla Goodbody.
Q. When CMU defeated Pitt near the end of the basketball season, what 
were the odds that Bill Weeburger would drop his coach when carrying 
him off the court on his shoulders?
Bob Greesini
A: 10-1.
*********
Q: I am very intersted in supporting our varsity teams. How can I 
join the varsity C-Club?
C. Kraemer
A: A club is led to the kind and a diamonds is played. East can trump 
whenever he wishes but South can overtrump, draw the last trump and 
claim the balance.
*********
Q: I only attended one football game this year and it seemed that Joe 
Churning was playing a lot of positions. How many positions did he ac
tually play that day?
Rich Bellington
A: Because of a manpower shortage, Churning had to kick-off, placekick and hold for the place-kicks, run back kicks, play defensive safe
ty, and flankerback, spot plays from the roof of the press box and sell 
hot dogs for A Phi O.
*********
strewn bodies and swung an emp
ty yard at her SAE pinmate who 
ducked and the yard hit the ATO 
thereby knocking him out and 
giving the win to ATO.
In the Grass division of IM 
Whales Tails, Alcopolco Gold 
rode to an easy win over the Grad 
Narcs in a hotly disputed contest 
held Friday night. The Narcs are 
presently protesting the use of 
hyperventilation as a quick means 
of passing out. Their immoral 
captain Ben Dover said, If we 
dont win the water pipe from 
those guys by default, were going 
to bust those----guys.
All in all, it was a great season 
for lushes, jrice freaks and heads 
alike and rosters are now being 
filled for next years competition 
so practice can begin early. The 
dorm Pushers have freaked 
out of the buggy competition and 
have expressed their enthusiasm 
for the rapidly catching on sport.
BIG BERTHA, defensive lineman recruited from Central Catholic, 
goes after quarterback in her first game since being locked up in Morewood Gardens for three months.
They are now recruiting dorm 
residents who have previous ex
perience in hope of picking up 
some IM points next season. Good 
luck gentlemen  And until next 
year... and two . . . nah . . . 
who...
IM MAN OF THE YEAR
Voting took place last week 
at the I AM Bored meeting, for 
the coveted I AM Man of the year 
Crown. E. J. Berdie Director of 
Intramural Athletics, tallied the 
results and once again Pinto Bean, 
the legendary I AM man in the 
sky, was the overwhelming vic
tor.
IM DUE DATES
Feb. 31  Co-Rec Water Polo 
March 32  Broad Jumping 
April 3  Candle Pins 
May 7  Breast Stroking
IM POINT STANDINGS
TDP.......................................48
TX..........................................47*
SAE.......................................47V*
ATO.......................................4
DU.........................................30
BTP.......................................11
PKT.......................................2
The athletic program at C-MU 
is designed for student enjoy
ment, but the students dont seem 
to care. This is not an issue con
fined to our campus, it is a gener
al trend throughout the nation. 
What can we do about it? How can 
we get more students to enthus
iastically attend varsity sports 
events?
For example, in our recent 
E506 homework assignment, the 
head loss term was poorly defin
ed and applications of Bernoullis 
law were impossible. However, if 
the fluid is considered incompres
sible then the steady state equa
tion holds. Steady flow elastic 
interactions are especially sig
nificant during fraternity open 
house.
Therefore, all students on this 
campus want to do is jag around 
and this eventually will lead to 
chaos and destruction.
After impressing NFL scouts 
throughout the country with their 
physical attributes and potential, 
the Carnegie cheerleaders were 
drafted in the first round by the 
Green Gay Packers (in a package 
deal). The Tartan twirlers reput
edly received a six figure bonus 
to join the Pack.
A spokesman for the Pittsburgh 
Steelers commented that they had 
received good scouting reports 
on the fearsome foursome but 
they had enough defensive line
men at the present time. The 
Atlanta Vultures reportedly also 
tried to grab the cheerleaders 
but the Packs offer was more se
ductive.
Bangston, the Green Gay coach, 
concluded that he was confident 
that the girls could make the 
team (or vice versa) and was 
looking forward to the coming 
season.
CMU Whips UCLA In NCAA Finals
BASKETBALL TEAM cheers madly forOlympic diver Big Splash who 
famous belly wop:
emptied half of CMU swimming pool with

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE CART ANFriday, March 28, 1969
STRAIGHT STUFF
Chicago Convention Indictments Conference Explores Social Discontent
A Federal Grand Jury has in
dicted eight Chicago policemen 
and eight other persons on crim
inal charges stemming from dis
orders during the Democratic 
Convention last August. Big 
names in the anti-war movement 
Rubin, Hoffman, Hayden, Dav
is, and Dellinger  were among 
those indicted.
The indictments had been pre
pared as long as a month ago, but 
were held up by the Justice De
partment, reportedly because it 
wanted to strengthen the case 
against the demonstrators.
The eight civilians were the 
first persons to be indicted under 
the anti-riot provisions of the 1968 
Civil Rights Act, making it a fel
ony to cross state lines for the 
purposes of citing a riot. One po
liceman was charged with two 
counts of perjury. The others were 
charged with violations of the 
1886 Civil Rights Act: While 
acting under the color of the laws 
... did willfully strike, hit and 
assault certain persons with the 
intent of punishing them sum
marily and without due process of 
the law ...
Charged with conspiring to use 
interstate Commerce with the in
tent to incite acts of violence were 
David T. Dellinger, 53 (pacifist, 
editor of Liberation magazine and 
co-chairman of the National Mo
bilization Committee to End the
War in Vietnam (MOBE); Ren
nie C. Davis, 28 (MOBE), proj
ect director for the convention 
demonstration, former commun
ity organizer; Thomas E. Hay
den, 29 (founder of Students for 
Democratic Society, author, for
mer Neward, N. J., community 
organizer, co-project director for 
convention protest; Abbot (Abbie) Hoffman, 32 (former SNCC 
field worker in Mississippi, Yippie mythmaker), author, organ
izer of the aborted Yippie Fes
tival of Life convention; Jerry
C. Rubin, 30 (Free Speech Move
ment leader at Berkeley), project 
director for 1967 Pentagon pro
test, Yippie myth-propagator.
Indicted with them were John 
R. Froines, 20, of Eugene, Ore.; 
Lee Weiner, 29, of Chicago; and 
Bobby G. Seals, 32, Oakland, 
Calif, (chairman of the Black 
Panther Party). Froines and Wein
er were charged specifically with 
teaching others to make incendi
ary devices.
All eight were accused of mis
representing, concealing, and hid
ing the purpose of and the acts 
done in furtherance of said con
spiracy.
Conviction for a conspiracy car
ries a maximum penalty of $10,-
000 fine and five years impris
onment. The perjury charges 
against Lt. Carl Dobrich, 39, car
ries a $2,000 fine and five years
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique space-age overnight sum
mer camp in Pennsylvania. Able to teach either one of fol
lowing: Chemistry, Physics, Rocketry, Photography, Water 
Safety, ennis, Athletics, Pool Director, Lakefront Director or 
Archery. Write Camp Director, 138 Reb Rambler Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444.
in jail maximum on each count. 
Conviction on the beating charges 
acarries a maximum penalty of $1,-
000 and one year in prison.
Lt. Dobrich is accused of mak
ing an untrue statement to the 
grand jury when he denied strik
ing anyone with his baton during 
the liberation of the statue in 
Grant Park Aug. 26 and the con
frontation at Michigan and Bal
boa the next evening.
The other cops are accused of 
beating college students and news
men.
The charges grew out of an in
vestigation headed by U.S. At
torney Thomas A. Foran with the 
help of the Justice Department 
and the FBI.
Also indicted was Enid Roth, 
a former NBC news director, for 
attempting to conduct illegal elec
tronic surveillance of two closed 
committee hearings at the con
vention in the third case brought 
under the anti-bugging provisions 
of the omnibus Crime Control 
Act of last June.
Rubin, in an acceptance 
speech circulated before the in
dictments were handed down, 
spoofed the indictment for inter
state traveling to incite riot, call
ing it the Academy Award of 
protest, and accepting it with 
thanks to my mother, wife, and 
other relatives as well as all 
those who made this possible 
(Che, Mao, Tom Pa/ine, and 
others)
I-------
Name.
I
I
UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS WORKSHOP FOLLOW-UP'
.Admin._Fac._-Student: GradSoph.
_Sr.Jr..
_Fr._
Campus or Local Adress. 
C-MU Extension__________
-Zip_Home Telephone.
In which area are you most interested in working:
The quality of teacing and the role of research at C-MU.
__Grades, credits, majors, requirements, curriculum.
Decision making and achieving change; channels of influence.
__Creating a more involving, friendly, interesting campus.
The role of the university in society; goals and models for C-MU.
Other (please describe):
______________Please clip out and return to 57 Skibo._____________________________________j.
Sources and solutions of modern social discontent will be explored 
at this years Carnegie Conference at Carnegie-Mellon University 
Saturday, March 29.
The all-day parley will feature a program of distinguished speak
ers, including guest lecturers Senator William Proxmire, U.S. Sena
tor from Wisconsin; Dr. Alfred Blumstein of the Research Council of 
the Institute for Defense Analyses; and Dr. John Coleman, president 
of Haverford College.
C-MU professors taking part in the meeting are Herbert Simon, 
associate dean of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
and R. K. Mellon Professor of Computer Science and Psychology; Da
vid V. Ragone, associate professor of economics in GSIA.
The conference, on the theme Social Unrest: Causes and Clires, 
will be held in Skibo Hall Presiding over the meeting will be J. How
ard Joynt, president of the C-MU Alumni Association.
Registration fee, which includes the luncheion, is $10 per person. 
For further information, contact the Alumni Office, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213, or call (area code 412 ) 621-2600, 
ext. 261.
V/ould You Believe!?!
Actions by the Social Relations students are setting precedents at 
C;MU which can eventually effect the entire university community. 
They began by formulating a series of demands geared to strengthen
ing the department, then presenting them as a formalized petition to 
Dr. Stever, Dr. Schatz, Dr. Saunders, Dr. Cooper, and Dean Steinberg. 
The results of this presentation were a student-administration-faculty 
meeting on Thursday, March 20, at which the administration respond
ed to the demands. One very important result of this meeting was the 
formulation of a student-administration-faculty committee having po
licyand decision-making power concerning the long and short range 
structure of the Social Relations Department. This was in direct re
sponse to one of the petition demands.
More specifically the student-faculty-administration committee 
will deal with the problems of staffing the department with competent 
faculty, and providing an adequate curriculum with reasonable course 
offerings at reasonable times. The first meeting was held Tuesday, 
March 25, at which time the problems were immediately tackled.
The next committee meeting is April 1 at 12:30 a.m. in Dean 
Steinbergs office. If Social Relations Majors cannot attend the meet
ing and wish to have their views represented, contact one of the fol
lowing people: Sam Hicken, 421-7400; Joan Kovalic, 521-5957; Mere
dith Moorhead, 563-7994; Jane Shultz, 682-8883; and Rita Wagstaff, 
521-9083.
would you like to HAVE A VOICE . . in who Is hired to teach your classes
COME HEAR AN EVALUATION SEMINAR BY
PROFESSOR DANIEL GAY
FINDLAY COLLEGE
This is the beginning of a Precedent... '
? ? ? WILL STUDENTS HAVE A VOICE?
 IT IS UP TO US 
SOCIAL-RELATIONS MAJORS will have the opportunity to hear Professor 
Gay speak and then may give the administration written appraisals of his 
teaching ability.
PROFESSOR GAY holds a law degree, a degree in Anthropology and is a 
candidate for a Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Pittsburgh. He will 
speak on "Modernization in Southeast Asia and the Middle East." iiiaiifiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiifiisiiiMiiiiiiiii(iiiiiiiiiiitiiiii(iiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiii(iiiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMSATURDAY, MARCH 29, 10:30 A.M., MM 404>iiiMiiiiiiiiiiMaiiaiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiuii(iiaiitii(ii(iiaiiiiiaiiiiiiii|iiaii(ii(iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiaiiaiiiiianiiiiiiiiiatiaiii 
COME if you want to have good teachers in social relations!
CAMPUS INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
Thursday, April 10,1969Friday, April 11,1969
Columbia Gas System 
Federal Communications Comm. 
Intl. Nickel Company 
Huntington Alloys Prod. Div. 
Merck 
Pennsylvania Dept, of Highways 
TRW, Inc. 
Systems Group 
Travelers Insurance
AVCO Corporation Lycoming Division 
DeLaval Turbine 
Electronics Associates 
General Dynamics Corporation 
Electric Boat Division 
Quincy Division 
Leesona 
Gibbs & Cox 
Owens-Illinois 
Office of the Chief of Staff 
Sinclair Oil Corporation 
Pa. Dept, of Forests & Waters

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 28, 1969THE CARTANPage 11
Y-News
PART TIME WORK : :
: : adjustable to class schedule
 MINIMUM 3 EVENINGS PER WEEK 
 $20 per EVENING  
CALL  MR. KIRK  441-8176
MMM MONDAY - FRIDAY
The
Comedy
of
Cosby
DAILY: 6:25, 8:25, 10:25
SAT., SUN.: 2:25, 4:25, 6:25, 8:25, 10.25.
MURRAY AT BEACON SQ.H1L 
JA.1-0700
BNMOC
We hereby wish to take this 
opportunity to present to Ka
thy Olin the BNMOC Award 
for excellence in her field.
ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY
SAT. EVE. - APRIL 19-8:30
PLUS ADDITIONAL ATTRACTION
CIVIC ARENA
Tickets: $5.50S4.50S3.50
SEATS NOW ON SALE at Network Ticket Agencies located In all National Record Marts and Clvtc Arenj Box Office, Gate 1.
MAIL ORDERS AND MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: Network Ticket Agency, 234 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. Please enclose stamped selfaddressed return envelope.
A SPECIALLY DESIGNED SOUND SYSTEM FOR THIS PERFORMANCE SUPPLIED BY MR. COSIY.
 I SIH tNTtftPftlStt INC PRODUCTION
0>  I 
 C o5 
-S * d.o c c
* ? o
c *
o . _^ 4)LO E 1 oN B3
'O S *. UL >* 
<A . O-Oc .2 O
I"
 O v*-
60 --U o
I 2
E o> S 
sioTJc c o o
E  " 
^ cs
* i 
> co
 -5 V i. Vtn <- -* SL 
4) >at >L .vio c  o
c * il " E I
O'o
> u o n CO
ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOP
3901 FORBES AVENUE   OPEN 24 HOURS
another first 
THE LARGEST DOUBLE-DECKER
 IN OAKLAND!
THE HAMBURGER
 that takes all night to eat!
WE DARE YOU TO TRY ONE:
and SEE IF YOU 
CAN FINISH IT II
AN IMPERTINENT, DELICIOUS LITTLE SATIRE. 
There is an enormous amount of raw vitality. 
Wonderful performances by a cast of fresh and 
inventive young actors. Few big budget 
movies contain as much wit and purpose!
I VERY MUCH ADMIRED GREETINGS!Rex Reed, Women's Wear Da/fy
AN OVERGROUND SEX-PROTEST FILM!
^Hamilton tEatmeg
*
4th Floor Penn Theatre Bldg.
604 Penn Ave. (at Sixth St.) 
*
(412) 281-5621
BOOTS
... for Men, Girls
EXPERIENCED . . . 
Editing, Rewriting,
THESIS, PROPOSALS AND REPORTS5 2 1-0233
Modern 2-BEDROOM
OAKLAND APARTMENT FOR THREE!
Newly furnished wall to wall carpet
ing, modern kitchen and tile bath! 
e MAY l*t TO SEPTEMBER 1st  
? CALL *83-6177 AFTER 5
EDITING*
 COMPLETE SERVICE
MONDAY - THURSDAY . ..
... 6:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
CALL.. .731-9761
GIRLS...
are you looking for summer counselor position?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1969 camp 
season? Must be able to teach one of the following: Arts & 
Crafts Director, Dancing, Music, Archery, Tennis, Golf, Tram
poline, Cheerleading, Riflery, Scout Craft & Nature Study 
or A.R.C. Swimming Instructor.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college graduate ex
perienced in camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, 
evening programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write Camp 
Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 21209.
Archer Winsten. New York Post 
A OIMMAM RELEASE IN CUM
Electric Theater Opens 
With Jett Secfc
Feel Alienated, Kid?
If you think that the older gen
eration doesnt know youre alive, 
and really couldnt care less, you 
may be right!
Dr. Robert Morgan, professor 
of psychology and director of the 
counseling center, will speak on 
No Time for Youth. The title 
for histalk is that of a book by 
Joseph Kattz, a noted social psy
chologist, concerned with the 
problems of youth in our society. 
This talk is part of the Thursday 
Luncheon Forum series, bring 
your lunch and your questions to 
the Wherrett Room of Skibo at 
12:30 p.m. on Thursday, April 10.
The Electric Theater, at 6117 Broad Street Mall, in East Liberty, 
will open this Saturday, March 29, turning Pittsburgh on to the new 
sounds of blues, rock, and jazz. First night performers will be Jeff 
Beck, a former Yardbird, and Rebecca and the Sunnybrook Farmers.
Jeff Beck will be making his first appearance in Pittsbrugh. After 
separating from the Yardbirds, he went on to do his own things in blues 
and rock n roll. Rebecca and the Sunnybrook Farmers, who are from 
Pittsburgh, do all orgiginal music. They have recently cut their first 
album on the Musicor label. It will be available soon in local and na
tional record stores.
Tickets for the first Electric Theater concert are $3.50 and they 
are available at the door.
Shows will be at 9:30 and 11 p.m.with continuous entertainment 
between shows.
Interested in Sex?
There will be a weekend de
voted to the discussion of sexual
ity  morals, sex roles, marriage, 
non-marriage, etc. This discussion 
will return Sunday afternoon. 
Limited participation.
For further information, call 
extension 239 or 416, or stop by 
room 57, Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Due to
the Outstanding Efforts of one
BERNARD L. SACHS
Page 12THE CARTANFriday, March 28, 1969
i
Page 29 - 3 - X - ? ! 
(OY-Vey)
this page has been cancelled
