BASKET BALLNEW GYM 
FRIDAYWASH-JEFF 
SATURDAYW. VA. WESLEYAN
WOMENS JUNIOR PROM 
| SCHENLEY BALL ROOM 
j FRIDAY EVENING, FEB. 27
I.
VOL. XIX No. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1925
TARTANS WIN; 
TWO AND LOSE:
BAS KETLNLW
Eastern Trip Proves Highly 
Successful to the Plaid 
Floor Artists
F. & M DREXEL,
SKI BO VICTIMS :
City College of N. Y. Wins . 
Hard GameClans Turn 
Out to Greet Team
BUDGET ORGANIZATIONS *
MUST TURN IN REPORTS *
According to an announcement v 
forthcoming from M. D. Kailv 
felz, Treasurer of the Student * 
Council, all budget organizations ? 
must hereafter turn in their ? 
monthly reports promptly to G. ?!* 
E. Slye, chairman of the Budget 
Organization Committee of the *2* 
Student Council. Unless the *!? 
budget organizations on the 
Campus abide by this ruling the *! 
committee will have to forego 
extending any further appropria-! 
tions on th&r budgets. In the *! 
past certain societies have neg*> 
lected to co-operate with the ? 
Budget Committee in this respect, and as a result have 
caused a considerable amount of 
additional work to be added to v 
the now numerous duties of the v 
committee. ?
"The fast-stepping Carnegie quint 
emerged from its whirlwind threeday trip through the East with two 
scalps dangling from its belt, and 
only the fates prevented it front be
ing three. On Thursday night 
Franklin and Marshall was defeated 
to the tune of 42-19; on Friday Drex
el Institute, a team which meets the 
Plaid in football for the first time 
next season, was trimmed by a 38-14 
score; and on Saturday the Tartans 
fell before one of the strongest, if 
not the strongest team in .the east, 
City College of New York, score 
22-20.
Despite the big scores piled up by 
the Tartans in the first two games, 
the opposition was stiffer* than would 
seem. The games were exceptionally 
fast, but the playing of the Plaid 
quint wa?s a revelation to their fol
lowers, large numbers of whom were 
at the games. It was impossible to 
stop the Skibos once they got going, 
so that the only question undecided 
after a few minutes had gone by was 
the size of the score that would be 
piled up.
When the team stacked up against 
the powerful City College of New 
York in the third game, however, it 
was a different story. The City Col
lege boasts of one of the greatest 
teams in the east this year, having 
just previously defeated Fordham 
after that team had won thirteen con
secutive battles against the strong 
teams of the country. Other leading 
eastern colleges have fallen victim to I 
the City College aggregation, coached 
by the famous Holman, of the New j 
York Celtics. Thinking that' Carj 
negie would be easy for them, Hollman started his second team, much j 
(Continued on Page Three.) j
BEGIN TO SET OUT 
PLANTS ON CAMPUS
ASSEMBLY TO 
CONSIDER TWO 
AMENDMENTS
Student Council Passes Two 
Revisions to Its Own 
Constitution
I
GENERAL VOTE AT
MARCH ASSEMBLY
Favors Secret Banquets If 
There is No Interference 
With Class
 SOPHOMORES TO HOLD
TEA DANCE THURSDAY *>
The combined Sophomore *
 classes will sponsor a Tea Dali*
 sante, this Thursday afternoou v
 from four-thirty to six o'clock *>
 in the Carnegie Union. <
It is the purpose of the committee to make this dance as * 
' attractive as possible, in order 
to arouse interest in the apv 
I *! proaehing Hop of the Sopho!* 
! v mores at the William Penn v 
I* Hotel on Friday. March the 
?J* sixth. A stronger bond of friendI* ly relationship between the Soph*
* mores of the four colleges is * 
I* also desired, and all members % 
v of the class are especially urged
* to attend.
I* The music will be furnished *! 
> by the Carnegians, a seven?!*
* piece orchestra that has become * 
very popular among the stuv
* dents. This is an all Carnegie ? 
affair, and ev^ry one on the
*! campus is invited to toe present. *
WOMENS PROM 
AT SCHENLEY 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Hines Brothers to Provide 
Music For '26s Dance in 
Honor of 25
HALL DECORATED
WITH LANTERNS
Two Children to Distribute 
Favors at Close of Grand 
March
Col. Fairley Develops Plans 
to Beautify Grounds With 
Shrubbery
WILL LOOK DI FFERENT
Musical Clubs Appear 
At Schenley Theatre
Specialty "Stunts Add Spice 
to Playhouse Program
Last night the Musical Clubs add
ed to the glory of Carnegie in their 
appearance at tho Schenley Theater. 
Although there were but two per
formances, and those limited to twen- ty minutes, in this short time the 
clubs have set for themselves a 
standard that it will be difficult to 
maintain In the future.
The first number by the Instru
mental Club was Schuberts Marche 
Militaire. This selection was re
ceived with a storm of enthusiastic 
applause. The club then gave evidence,> of their versatility'by playing 
a popular number, which they ren
dered with equally as much skill as 
those of a more classical nature. Al 
Menettis jig, acompanied by an in
strumental number, added further 
variety to the program. Much credit 
is due Setve Kovach, director, under 
whose effective leadership the club 
has won its popularity.
After repeated performances in 
various cities, Warren Kimballs In
dian Dance seems to have just about 
reached perfection. It was this 
dance that scored such a hit at 
Springdale, and at the various places 
which the clubs visited on their Buf
falo trip. This number was one of 
the most attractive features of the 
entire program last night.
The Glee Club, under the capable 
directorship of Al Johnston, also had 
its share in making the performance 
a successful one. The. selections 
Swing Along, by Cook, and The 
Viking were eagerly applauded. The 
baritone solos by J. L. Gumbert were 
an added attraction.
All in all, the program undoubtedly 
went across. There will be similar 
performances tonight and tomorrow 
night, and if these prove as success
ful as last nights has been, the clubs 
have firmly established their reputa
tion as talented musicians, at least 
(Continued on Page Two.)
\ ------------------------TOMORROW LAST DAY TO
SECURE C. W. CONCESSIONS
With the coming of spring, our 
thoughts have turned (together with 
other things) to the appearance of 
our campus. We are assured that 
there will be an extensive campaign 
of spring planting this year under 
the direction of Colonel Fairley.
The campus is soon to be covered 
with rich top-soil and sown with 
grass seed. In a month or so this 
same seed will blossom forth into 
a luxuriant growth of verdant grass. 
The grounds around the new Gym 
will be resplendant with its new 
green-covered slopes in the place of 
the abominable ,mass of mud that 
now greets the eyes of the students.
Plans have been made to transform 
the Campus of Carnegie Tech into 
a place of exceptional beauty. Theso 
plans may now be carried out with 
success as practically all of the un
derground tunnels, sewers, pipes 
and conduits have been installed in 
the main Campus.
The areas in the rear of the Fine 
Arts School and over the new tun
nel will be put in shape and the sec
tion extending from the Carnegie 
Inn to the M. M. C. C. Building is 
to be filled in, seeded, and later 
planted with shrubbery.
The tree planting can shortly be 
undertaken. It is planed that each 
class shall purchase a tree to repre
sent that class on the landscape of 
the Campus. The president of the 
various classes are strongly in favor 
of this idea.
If all of the plans for the beauti
fication of our campus are carried 
out, (and we have just cause to be
lieve they will be), the landscape of 
our campus will be incomparable.
A new gardner, William Shirley, 
has been secured. He is highly re
commended and it is hoped that his 
work will be successful. He will 
have difficulty in filling the niche 
that Paul Scliulnick, our old gardner, 
made for himself in the hearts of the 
faculty and students of Carnegie.
WILL DROP TWO MAJOR 
APPLIED ARTS OPTIONS
FOR SCIENCE STAG
At the last meeting of the Student |
Council, Tuesday, February 17, Verj 
non S. Mollenauer assumed the of***' . f f t t f t # 
fice of president left vacant by Milo j
Matter, who did not return to school |  t^t-v  nr>r\/r',n - .2jE
this semester. Mollenauer is a sen-j AKKAJNvjt lKUvjRA/YV 
ior architect, vice president, of Stu
dent Council, and is a member of Sigma Epsilon Phi. He was chairman-j 
of the committee in charge of One j 
Arabian Night," the last Arts Ban. Pictures of Football Games,
The council approved the following j 
two amendments to its constitution.! All Pools Day, Campus 
which were worded substantially as XX7 , , , 01
given here: j Week to be Shown
1. At the annual election of the j ---------------
student council president, held in the j PLAN CLASS STUNTS
spring, the man or woman receiving I ___________
the second highest number of votes I
shall be elected vice president. | r^'^le Science Stag has started to,
2. The vice president of tho Stuhit 011 a11 four with tho selection of ! 
dent Council shall assume the office the three undorclass stunt commit-; 
of president upon the vacation of this j ^ees an<* ^1Q format ion of definite 
office by the president, for any cause, j P^ans of entertainment Cor this years
Since the constitution of the counj smoker-frolic, 
cil requires that all amendments be! Junior class entry will be do j
approved by the entire student body, j termined by F. L. Wagner, R. V. I 
these amendments will be placed be-H*e*nQ1"* k..E. Krebbs, anti S. Hanley, 
fore the student body at General As-1 while S. P. Williams and G. Wesson| 
sembly, March 10. for approval. i neur wlH select the Sophomore' offering. The Freshman commltteo, apell decided to record as approving I by Bowron hocanso of;
secret banquets of the sophomore, 118 d organteed condition of
GYM FFFFFFFRGYGG : class |H composed ot 1!. Fredericks,
T. King, B. Reoves, S. Smith, J. Scar
let, A. Newell and W. Andrews.
In connection with this, the connM unique as to
cil passed a recommendation to tho f, . moft  :u 01H; !N 1 ' |l'1 ot
Executive Board that tho words "in T U 8 urfalrThis will be the flrs, p ,i t~\  r< \ tne Lhe program idea has been car-the opinion of the Discipline Com.. , 11 1 ried out so far as Carnegie smokers |
are concerned. Judglnfe from sugges-1
After some deliberation, the couni
anti freshman classes, provided they 
are so conducted as not to interfere 
with regularly scheduled classes.
mittee  and adequate be struck 
out ol! the following new White Book 
(Continued on Pago Two.)tions for their design; results aro 
promised that will bo in keeping with 
the event, presaged as tho spiciest 
nicotine fest; yet proposed. In tho 
past-those fortunate enough to attend 
the Science smoker had nothing by 
which to remombor it; nothing to aid 
I in recollections ol! friends and acj quaintances who provided Its mirth Will Take Place Mar. 1, 15, and made the stag enjoyable.
. As tho program is draltod, tho mo-29 in the Little Theatre tion picture will be brought Into play
____________ I to recall the important football games
I ol! tho season, the hlllarious novelMusic Department to 
Hold Three Recitals
ties of Campus Week, Its Mardi Ciras, 
Inter-frat  sweopstakes and Its counLocal music lovers will, be inter-1
.ested to know that the Department ol' I
Music has planned a series ot Sun7 T, .. , - i try fair. Tho parado of grotosquolyday evening recitals for March. I . . , . ,.(n. .. . . . ... I costumed plebes in the A 1 Fools dayThese recitals, three in number, will . ,,, , ,y Ar i ir  i on .. celebration will also bo shown,be given March 1, 15, and 20, In the , .... , .  ,
L rni,onfn of EGEI  mt The bulletin board system of pub-Little Theater, at 8:30 p. m. The , . . . , ; nilW)n . i llcity to remind studonts of tho corn-public is invited and no tickets are .  , ,, ,  ., , | ing ot the smoker, March 14, was
started last week and the posters 
Those who have been attending. Avjn jje renewed from time to time 
the frequent recitals ot tho Music as 00ntlnun] roinlml.ra of lhe ap. 
Department are familiar with the nrnnphimr DHDL-J 
high quality of the programs, and will'
of;FRESHMAN SCHOLASTIC
Beautiful posters have been con
spicuously displayed on the cam
pus, heralding the Womens Junior 
Promenade on February 27, at the 
Scheliley Hotel, between the fash
ionable hours of nine and two. These 
posters being very artistic, servo to 
an indication that tho most artistic 
party of the yoar will be held next 
Friday evening.
Tho ballroom of the hotel across 
the hollow will he a scene of gay 
lights and colorful decorations. At
tractive lanterns will' shed vari-colored lights throughout tho hall, and 
on tho swaying dancers, charging the 
air with romance. Bowls of fragrant 
roses will adorn tho tables, and lend 
a very sweet touch to tho festive 
hour.
Dancing will begin promptly at 
nine oclock to tho captivating strains 
of the Ilinos Brothers Orchestra. 
Mildred Semons and her escort will 
lead tho Grand March, scheduled to 
start at 9:45, and during tho prom
enade around tho dance floor, tho 
favors will bo distributed In a very 
novol manner. Two young children, 
a little'hoy and a lltlo girl, will pull 
two well-loaded toy wagons onto tho 
scene, and present both mon and 
womon with tho romombranco of tho 
Girls Prom of the Class of 102(1,
Tho final tickets aro on sale to
day and tomorrow in room 108, Mar
garet Morrison School, from 1:00 to 
1:30 p. in. Tho total prlco is Lwolve 
dollars, but If a preliminary Llclcot 
has boon purchased, the remaining 
tax is seven dollars. It should bo romomborod that all girls must pay 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
industries Smoker is 
Set For March 27th
Loving Cup For Stunt Con
test Donated by Alpha Tau
 GIVE TEA DANCE IN UNION ?
THIS AFTERNOON AT 4:30 vj 
_______ .j.
This afternoon the Seniors ,*?
 will present to the public at the *
 usual rate per capita one Safv j
 Cron Struggle, sometimes known
> as Tea Dance. Tho orchestra *J*
 is compusly famous, calling itv
 soil*, themselves, and friends, the *1*
 Carnegians, out of spite to Uncle *
 Andy, who bore tho same name. *
As a special feature, members v
 of the Glee Club, which is ap*
 pearing twice nightly* at the 4*
 Schenley Theater, (advertise4-
 ment) will' appear during tho 4*
 afternoon. The men will have 4*
 to leave early, In order to get 4*
 into their makeup for the 4*
 evening performance, so it is 4* j
 urged that those who wish to 4*
 enjoy this feature will come 4-
 early. 4*
ANNOUNCE ALL 
CAMPUS WEEK 
SUB-CHAIRMEN
Eighteen Committees With 
Personnel of Over Hun
dred in Organization
MARY SPEARS IN
CHARGE OF GIRLS
Rutili to Handle General Plan
ning, McGee Will Run 
County Fair
L. H. HARRIS III TO 
LEAQ SENIOR BALL
Plans Under Way to Hold 
Annual Fete in Union 
March 20
FOR SENIORS ONLY
The faculty or the department of 
Applied Art has recently announced 
the discontinuing of two major op
tions, Crafts  and Advertising with 
the department of Painting and Illus
tration; the plan to go into effect 
next fall.
It has been found necessary to re
duce the.number of options now in 
the Department of Applied Art, and 
it has been deemed advisable to 
simplify the administration of two 
closely inter-locking departments. As 
a consequence the Crafts option and 
the option in Advertising Design will 
be taken from the curriculum after 
this year; and the options in Normal 
Art and interior Decoration will be
come part of the department now 
known as Painting and Illustration, 
^(Continued on Page Two)
March 1, is as follows:
1. Beethoven. Sonata No. 9, Op.
47 (Kreutzer) for violin and j -------:---
Pianoj Carnegies best first year students
Adagio sostenutopresto ; have been chosen by the Committee
Marie ICleyle, Katherine Hessler on Scholarship, on the basis of the
2. Franck. Symphonic Variations , grades received for the. first semester,
for piano. These freshmen, who lead their rePauline Zinman , spective schools in scholastic stand3. Brahms. O wusst ich doch den ing are rated according to the numweg zuruck (Groh). j her of points of quality earned
Brahms. Vergebliches StandNo consideration was given to the
chen (Folksong). ; activities of the leaders, however,
Brahms. Feldeinsamkeit (Al-, when the scholarships are awarded
mers)- : this point is heavily weighed. Dean
Brahms. Meine Liebe ist grun i Tarbell as Secretary of the CommitThe. Industries Smokor, oxoluslvo 
affair for Carnegie's most Industrious, 
has boon definitely sot for March 27, 
in tho Union.
Tho smoker this yoar will bo of 
much tho samo naturo as those of 
former years. However, instead of 
stunts by each class, there will bo 
a stunt by each department, by Alpha 
Tau, and possibly by tho Industries 
faculty. Alpha Tau, honorary schol
astic fraternity has donated a cup to 
bo awarded in tho stunt competition.
The program has not been com
pleted, but movies, smokos, eats, and 
I Lhe election of the most representaTlie Senior Ball Committee, con
sisting of J. M. Barbor, 11. A. Wel-1 
doll, .1). M. Guthrie, Bun Young, j 
and Ohio Newman, elected L. Herdj 
man Harris,, III, to act as chairman | 
for tho Ball. Prior to tho election, I 
however, tho ideas of tho various | 
mon on the Commlttoo were sound
ed out concerning tho orolvostra, lo
cation, and tho eligibility for tho 
event, and tho concensus of opinion 
was takon into consideration. Tho I 
main Idoa of tho Commlttoo soems 
Lo bo to stage a novol Ball, and to 
make It live up to tho high standards 
of tho Glass of '25.
With ft certain amount of public | 
opinion to work ou, tho Commlttoo 
wont right Into Lho subjeot of loca
tion. The various placos throughout, 
tho city woro considered, ana tho 
campus halls woro discussed. After 
a fow mlnuloB of nllont thought; tho * 
maltor was brought up Lo a Vole, and 
tho campus hall won. It was Lhon 
a matter of choosing botwoon Lho 
Foyer and Lho Union.
Tho oaso wllli which oach could I 
bo docoralod soomod Lo bo Lho chlof 
point lu favor of tholr selection In | 
preference Lo Lho elly floors, and a 
second consideration was tho prox
imity Lo Lho quartors of Lho sludenls. 
As a mallor of economy, this was 
found Lo bo Lho best Idea, and the 
public sentiment lifts boon for ooonomy throughout.. Finally, after con
sulting tho Student Calendar, It wan 
found LhuL Lho Foyor would not bo 
available for Lho evening ol! March 
20, so lho Union was daLod on tho 
slip, and definitely signed up.
It has been Lho ousLom, as Lho 
classes go on toward tholr goal, Lo 
eliminate tho next lower class from 
Lho social functions. Tho Soph Hop 
1s not open to Froshmon, Lho Junior 
(Continued on Page Two.)
After a month or questioning, in
terviewing and eliminating, Phil 
Rassbach finally has his Campus 
Week committee trimmed down to 
working shape; Lho most complete 
and carefully developed organization 
that Carnoglo has yet known.
There are eighteen siro-committees, 
each handling a definite division of 
Lhe work. These average eight mem
bers, bringing Lho total personnel of 
the organization well above a hun
dred. An ingenious system of meet
ings and reports is being prepared to 
properly' correlate tho efforts of tho 
various sub-committees.
To assisL in Lho administration of 
Lho different branches, Bill Foncil 
and Rod OConnor havo been appoint
ed assistant chairmen, and Mary 
'Spoars has been selected as general 
clifiirman for tho girls events.
.Tory Slye Is treasurer and Nora 
Wlllots secretary, with ITarry S'mlth 
and Dolores Myers as tholr rospectlvo assistants. Tho various sub
committee chairmen aro:
R. R. Rutili, General Planning; 
Ohio Newman, Show; Hoffor Slond, 
Business Manager; F. M. McQoo, 
County Fair; Bon KrlsLof, SwoopsLakos; Mlko Goodwin, Social ComrnlLLop; W; Winning, Publicity; 1. U. 
Shoppard, Athletics; Carey Proctor, 
Qualification; Al Mlnottl, Burlesque; 
Bull Yoder, Fntorl.alnmonl; Doug 
Mims, Construction; Pat Hlstiom, 
ElooLrlcal Work.
The girls events will bo managed 
by Margnrnlo Taylor, Swoopstaltos; 
Geraldine Corbett. Athletics; lOllzaboth Wright,, Fair; Barbara White, 
Qualifications; Grace Munball, Wo
men's Banquet.
Providing for Lho alumni has do(Continued on Pago Two.)
LEADERS ARE CHOSEN Live Carnegie man in Industries, will
no doubt be included.
Incited by the Maggie Murph Guild 
Carnival, Lhe Arts Ball, and the 
Science Stag Smoker, Industries will 
probably stage an entertainment to 
excite the envy of all those excluded.
(Schumann).
Eva Spencer 
Saint-Sans. Piano 
G minor.
Andante Sostenuto. 
Allegro Scherzando.
Alice Nelson 
AccompanistAlice Kirk
Fraternity Men Will Meet Their Fate 
For Friday, the Thirteenth, is the Date 
When All the Greeks Will Strut in State
(By Douglas Campus)
All persons desiring concessions to 
sell goods. on the campus during 
Campus Week must have their peti
tions at the C. I. T. post office by 
5:30 Wednesday, February 25. No 
consideration will be given to peti
tions received after this date.
Students only are eligible for these 
concessions,. which must be secured 
in order to sell goods of any kind.
Address all petitions to H. P. Rass
bach, chairman of the Campus Week 
committee, stating the nature of the 
concession desired and whether the 
petitioner has previously held a like 
permit.
Some energetic Greekling had the 
nerve to ask us the other day to buy : 
a ticket to a wrestle conducted un* j 
der the ancient rules prevalent durj 
ing the time of Pericles. He even | 
promised that the champion, a hefty j 
guy by the name of McMunn would | 
be there. Seems as if he Is a Gamj 
ma Delta Nu from Nebraska.
Of course we told him that wo: 
were superstitious, and couldnt pos
sibly come. You see, it was on Fri
day, the thirteenth, that we agreed 
to wear one of those funny little butj 
tons that most of the Frosh wear, j 
and what happened after that is f 
enough to make us think twice be-1 
fore monkeying with anything Greek | 
on a day like that.
Just as an afterthought we said: j 
How many drachmas to crash the i
gate? Quick as a shot the youngs-; 
ter came back and answered: Dont |
try to high hat me with the Grfielc I 
word for iron men, tho tax is five I 
berries.1' Being a loyal brother ot Epj 
sllon Alpha Tau often Jeeringly nickj 
named EAT, we naturally awsked: 
Are they serving the hot dogs with j 
chile con carne or just with pickle? j 
At this our young Greek friend be
came greatly incensed: This is not!
a meeting of the League of Nations, | 
a real feed is going to be served. | 
It seems as if a member of Bita | 
Hunka Pi by Lhe name of Bowron is i 
going to tiy to get Carl Fenton's s 
Brunswick recording Orchestra to | 
make some noise during the wrestle, 
but Garber of Bita Thicka Roe seems i 
to think that Charley Dornbergers j 
bunch may get the job. However, 
they have thirteen pieces counting, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
tee is responsible for the selections 
which are expected to serve as a 
Concerto in j stimulant to betler work in the pre: sent semester.
! The freshmen of the colleges of j Engineering and Industries are com! bined, so they were regarded as a 
! single group. The beat men of this 
| division are Thomas C. Wray, Josi eph G. Ritter, John A. Hagan, Fred 
I B. Wilson and Lewis A. Evans.
; In the College of Fine Arts the girls 
i proved to be the best students. The 
leaders were Charlotte Wardale, 
Rosemary I-Ieyl, and Thure M. Lelvo. 
The contest in Margaret*' Morrison 
was won by Josephine Clark, Velma 
Krause and Jean Roy,
Of tho eleven people who were 
able to excel in the stringent courses 
of lhe InstituLion, eight aro from the 
Pittsburgh district
ACACIA TO ENTERTAIN 
CITMAS CLUB FEB. 27
F. C. SWANSON WILL SPEAK
AT M. M. ASSEMBLY TODAY
Today at the Margaret Morrison 
assembly Mr. F. C. Swanson will 
speak on the subject of Current 
Topics. This talk should prove en
tertaining as well as instruclive. Mr. 
Swanson is well-informed on this 
subject and will discuss items of par
ticular interest to college women. 
The freshmen, of course, will attend 
J en masse, but ' an unusually large 
number of upperclassmen are expec| ted on this occasion.
A get-together meeting and smokor 
of Llie. CiLmas Club will be held in 
tho Acacia Fraternity House, 030 
Clyde streeL, at 7:00 p. m., Thursday, 
February 26, to welcome tho new 
masons on the campus.
Tho club is fortunate in having for 
Its principal speaker, Mr. Joseph M. 
Mackrell, a woll known newspaper
man, and at present Alegheny Coun
ty Recorder of Wills. He is a past 
officer of various Masonic bodies, a 
member of three Masonic clubs 
about Pittsburgh, and being a good 
orator ho has a wealth of good 
things to talk about.
A good turn-out of masons on the 
campus Is expected. The club pic
ture for the Thistle will be taken. 
Extra expense is being incurred to 
have it taken at this time to accom
modate more of the members.
There will be an election of a sec
retary to finish the unexpired term 
(Continued oh Page Three)
Hop Committee Develops Novel 
Scheme to Lessen Difficulties 
Of Couples Exchanging Dances
Schenley to Stage 
Kilties Performance
Novelty Program to Include 
Jazz and Chalk Talks
Tho long-horuldod, engagement oC 
tho Kiltie Band at tho Now Sohonloy Theater, will open tills Thursday 
night. Tho band w 11 play at 7:00 p. 
m. and ut 1): 15 Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday, wllli a matlhoe at 3:00 p. 
m. Saturday.
Tho Klltlos havo arranged a pro
gram of great variety and novolly 
for Lho occasion. Several now or
chestrations have boon rehearsed to 
perfection by Lho entire band; an 
eleven piece jazz orchestra has been 
formed, and will play several num
bers. Amy Glassford of the music 
deparlmont will sing. Ohio Newman 
will render several vocal selections 
Thursday night, but on account of 
the varsity basketball games Friday 
and S'aturday nights, will make but 
one appearance. Bernard Maslan of 
Arts School will present a chalk talk. 
D. W. Griffiths America will be 
the feature picture, completing a 
very high class program.
On Friday night in addition to ils 
program at the Schenley, the band 
will play at tho W. and J. basketball 
game In Lho new gym.
Following is Lhe present personnel 
of the band. These are the men who 
will play at the Schenley, and barr
ing inattendance at the rehearsals, 
will take Lhe eastern trip during 
spring vacation:
Officers
D. S. Garber, manager; S. I. Ow(Continued on Pago 2)
DR. KERR WILL 8PPEAK AT
CHAPEL THIS THURSDAY
Dr. Kerr, pastor of the Shadysido 
Presbyterian Church, and one of Catrnegies best friends, Is the speaker 
who has been chosen to deliver the 
sermon at chapel this Thursday. As 
usual, the MusicDepartment under 
the direction of Miss Loughton, will 
offer an interesting musical program.
This service will be the first one 
of the Lenten period, and it is urged 
that the students show an interest 
with a large attendance. Dr. Kerr 
will have a subject all the students 
should hear.
I The committee for the Soph Hop 
has at last completed all arrangeI monts, loaving nothing undone Lb at 
may add to tho enjoyment of those 
| who attend. A magnificent hall, a 
supreb orchestra, and high class en
tertainment have been provided, 
leaving little doubt that this, which 
is the last elaborate Soph Hop for 
Carnegie, should be tho best.
I The dance will be held in tho spaci lous ballroom of tho William Penn 
I Hotel, the most beautiful dance floor 
I In Pittsburgh. Ted Weems and his 
I Victor recording orchestra, who have 
j played for many big college affairs 
j throughout the country this year, are 
! to be the spell-binders. In a letter 
I to the committee last week, Weems 
I said there was no place his orchestra 
j would rather play than at a Carnegie 
I dance. There seems to be no doubt 
j that these musicians will add more
than thoir bit to the pleasure of the 
evening. The samo orchestra played 
for the Junior Prom sovornl weeks 
ago, and was very favorably received 
by the dancer,
As an addod attraction, Eddlo New
man, a brother of Lho ono and only 
Oblo, who Is now attending Arts 
School, will sing during the Intermis
sion. Tho two pickaninnies who 
were such a groat hit in tho Arts 
Bail play will put on a dancing act 
which Is guaranteed to entertain.
A novel plan has boon worked out 
to avoid the usual confusion in find
ing couples,, with whom one lias ar
ranged lo exchange dances. The let
ters of Lho alphabet will be hung in 
order around tho balcony of tho ball
room. After each dance couples ex
changing dances will find their part
ners under the letter designating the 
(Continued on Page Four)
ANNUAL SCHOLARSHIP
WON BY LOIS P. SNYDER
The annual scholarship given by 
the PILtsburgh Female College Alum
nae Association was awarded Lliis 
year to Lois P. Snyder, a senior in 
the Household Economics depart
ment All Juniors and seniors In tho 
Margaret Morrison Collogo aro eligi
ble Lo compote for this scholarship, 
and it Is given Lo that girl, who, In 
addition Lo ranking among those 
making tho highest number of P. 
Q.'s for Lho first somost.or, oarns part 
of her exponses, Last yoar tho 
scholarship was won by Margaret 
McFall.
There woro three girls who made 
exceptional records for last semester: 
Anne Klnzor, a S'onior, made 384 P. 
Q.s; Alice Moore, a Junior, earned 
337; and Lois Snyder, 318. Tho 
scholarship committee awarded the 
$50.00 prize Lo the last named.
Besides making exceptional scholastlc records, Miss Snyder engages 
in numerous aclivities, being a mem
ber of Tartan, Puppet, and Song 
Book staffs, as well as an active par
ticipant in class affairs, and ath
letics.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24. 1925
 Cgielarfan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie IriHtltuto of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postoillce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH...................................................................................Schenley 122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
P. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROII E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson It. It. Slt/Jor D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PI-iELPS...............................................................................Schenley 102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ......................................................................................Schenley 070
V. 13. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5G47-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS..............................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Depper, M. Holllnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand,
C. .1. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Bor/-o)lu, M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Graut, E. 
Ross, H. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn, F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. 'Wlngold, 
L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttttll, W. Klin mol.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
T. CHRISTOFF ......................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A, C. Follor, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernardi, B. Krlstof.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON........................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER ........................................................................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ .....................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
.T. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Strl/.ak, Lois Snyder, A. Porrelon, G. II. Carl. B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Cribbio.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for Lho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withhold if desired. AH news Items must be in the sladent 
post ofllce before <1:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfllceRoom 12, Industries Building. Ofllce hours-Daily 12:30- 
1:20. *
THE STUDENT COUNCIL
Two amendments to the Student Council Constitution were 
brought up ali the last; Council meeting and were voteci upon favor
ably. hi effect, they were as follows :
That; in nil eases ol: the alienee ol: the president, either through 
ineligibility or sickness, the vice president, shall assume thepresi
dency ol; the council.
Th lit when, the president, of the council is elected, the man receiv
ing the second highest; number of votes from the four representatives 
of the college shall automatically become, vice president.
This is a ' f------As it stands now, the vice presi
dent is elected from the personnel of tin* council, regardless of 
whether on not Tie is one ol! the representatives of the colleges. As 
there is always 1 chance that for some c/use the president will be
come nimble to fulfill his duties;' it will mean that in order that the 
president, be one of the college representatives, a new elction must 
be held. This will not only waste time, but it will cause a stop in the 
smooth functioning ol! the council until ,the new president becomes 
thoroughly 'familiar with his duties.
In the same line, the vico president will lie able to handle the 
thing invitili better because ho will know all the workings ol! the 
council due to the fact that he handles the meetings in the absence 
ol! the president;.
In order that Mie constitution be amended, it; is necessary that 
it pass favorable vote of the council, and also a two-thirds vote of the 
students present, ill; a general assembly. The vote on these 'amend
ments will bo held al the next general assembly. Any student who 
lias any views will be permitted to air them at this meeting which 
will he in the nature ol! an open forum discussion. This is a matter 
which is of vital nitores I; to the. students if they are really in favor 
of student, government. The attendance at the assembly and the dis
cussion which takes placo there will show whether or not they really are.
THE CLANS
The Carnegie Tartan wishes to congratulate the clans on the re
ception given to the basket Imll team on its recent trip east. At; every 
stop they were met by the Carnegie Clan in that district. They were 
entertained during every minute of (heir stay, and tho boys are unan
imous in their praise of llie treatment accorded them. The Clans 
turned out to a man al llie games and their cheering was a great en
couragement to the boys who were playing llie game.
These Clans are wide awake. Thoy are I'uldlling he ot I heir 
functions to period ion in that they are.supporting the beams appear
ing in their district. This is one of the primary aims ol! the clans, 
.And if they aro doing this to perfection may we not assume that they 
are carrying out their other activities with the same enthusiasm and 
energy?
To those who wonder what the Clans are doing, and in what 
ways I hey benefit the school, we recommend that they interview mem
bers of the basket ball team who went 011 the recent trip. Thov know.
ALL FOOLS DAY
The time of the year is approaching during which All Fools Day 
is usually held. So far we have heard no word about it, Is there, 
or is there not going to be one this year?
The Carnegie Tartan is in favor of it. It stimulates student, in
terest in a novel way, and at the same time serves as an outlet: to the 
spring fever which usually grips the students at this time of the 
year.
This event, if it: is properly controlled and entered into in the 
right spirit, can bo, made one of the most; popular traditions on the 
campus. It furnishes sufficient incentive to the Freshmen in the 
exemption from Plebe regulations to get up good costumes, it leads 
to a more unified, Freshman class. It provides a source of entertain
ment for the upper classmen, and impresses more strongly the spirit 
of good fellowship which is one of the more vital forces in*our college 
career.
Student Calendar
THURSDAY, KUBlil'AliY -(i
C'lmpol............................................................12:50 P. 11., Little Theater
"A Pair (if Spectacles''................................15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27
"A Pair of Spott indes ......................'. . ...4:00 P. II., I,tile Theater
Itasket. RailPlehes vs. W. & ,1. Freshmen
\ arsily vs. \\. & .1.................. 7:00 P. M.. (ivmiiastium
"A Pait' of Spectacles .............................8:15 P. M.. I, 1 lie Theater
Women's .Junior Prom ..............................!) 00 P. M., Schenlev llelel
SATl'KDAY. KKHIiUAUY 28 
liaskel Hall West Virginia Wesleyan.. 8:00 P. M.. (ivmnnsium
.SUNDAY, MAKCll I
Music Recital................................................ 8:80 P. M., Little Thealer
TIU'KNDAY. MAKCll
Chapel....................................................... 12:50 P. M Little Theater
FR I DAY, MARCH (>
Basket BallGrove City.................................................At Grove Citv
Soph Hop....:.........................................!):00 P. M.. William Penn Hotel
SATURDAY, MARCH 7
Basket HallPlehes at Kiski..........................Varsity at Westminster
MUSICAL CLUBS APPEAR
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
8
1. Premier Hcrriott'o Financial
Policy.
2. The Polish Loan.
Tlio ability or Premier Herriot of 
Frahce an u statesman 1h being 
shown those day in bin handling ol 
the financial situation. The franc 
which wan quoted last week at 19.0 
l,o the dollar ha rallied a bit and ia 
now around 1S.0 to the dollar. Tho 
crux of l.iie situation 1h that France 
finds difficulty in balancing her bud
get. During tho war France Hpent 
Home 144.000.000,000 frailen more 
than her income, which had to be 
made up by borrowing $1,000,000,000 
more to nave Llie franc from falling 
and now tho name slluuLion bus been 
repeated. The immediate Bituation 
concerna itHolf with the difficulty of 
increased taxation, the loan of con
fidence in their own currency which 
bus meant tho shipping out of the 
country a number of millions of 
francs in the past few months, the 
unsettled political conditions, and 
the Knowledge that twenty billion 
francs worth of domestic bonds 
come due this year and a good part 
of them must be redeemed. Thus 
with all these debts and no increased 
income, Fiance findB herself with a 
budget that will not hTlance.
Premier Herriot is quite stern and 
forbidding in his policy. He is very 
plainly against the increased circu
lation of notes and borrowing but de
mands an increase in taxes and a de
crease in expenditures as the only so
lution. A few excerpts from his 
statements give us the key to his 
policies. "Cost what it may, we 
must stick to the policy of sane 
money," and "to put an end to the 
export of capital it will be necessary 
to make it attractive for money to 
return to France" and the next step 
will he to continue the light for fullcollection of taxes."
Louis Lauclieur, a former minister 
and industrial leader made the state
ment in the senate shortly after the 
promler's policy was out, that France 
should declare her intention of pay
ing her debts to lier alliesshould 
levy more taxes, and should plan to 
Borrow 200,000,000 dollars in the 
United States.
The Minister of Finance, M. elem
ental, closed the discussion of the 
ilnanco bill with the proposal Lo 
holster up the finances by a govern
ment loan in tile United States of 
$100,000,000 and a second loan Issued 
by certain devastated departments to 
the amount of $40,000,000.
Thus tho situation, and what does 
It all mean? M. Herriot is much 
the wiser and better statesman of 
the throe nnd also of all France. The 
only porinnnonlly possible solution is 
{hat of tho promlersto decrease the 
expenditures and to increase the 
taxes. No man can ovor gel? out of 
debt permanently by borrowing, and 
a nation is in the same category.
Tho Idea of Issuing more money to
cover tin1 dolicit Is absurd, and 
should that; happen we may oxpoct 
France to go the same way that 
Germany did. As to France's rais
ing the loans in tho States, there Is 
much doubt, The investing public 
have the fooling that France has rep'udlntod her floblH, despite her al
leged protestations l.o the contrary.
The llonlUm; of tho Polish loan of 
$:t5,q0pi000 In the United States, 
bonds selling' at. !)[>, S per cent Inter
est, and onUablo at $IOr, chusos iis 
to uto)) and wonder just what the 
status of the country Is now. particu
larly for investment purposes. Po
land is a rich territory, with Im
mense agricultural, oil, coal and iron 
wealth, but with no frontier. 'She Is 
economically secure, but politically 
unprotected. The country Poland 
was created by the treaty of Versail
les from sections of three countries, 
itussin, Austria and Germany. One 
writer claims tluit the one factor that 
united Poland in 1920 was the Bol
shevik invasion. The common dan
ger brought a unity which otherwise 
would have been impossible.
The country has gone through va
rious economic stagesthe first, that 
of .inflation, speculation, and the 
loss of public confidence in their cur
rencythen came the dictatorial 
powers of Mr. Gratiske, who insti
tuted a new currency backed by 
gold which gave stabilization-and 
then into a period of consolidation 
and reform.
Poland, because, of her resources, 
will emerge economically, but polit
ically there is some doubt. All three 
countries that lost territory to hel
are just waiting for a chance to 
cross the border and to get Lack 
what they think belongs to them. 
The political Integrity of Poland is 
not. assured, at least; not until we 
havo an international body to guar
antee boundary lines.
Kon. Jas. McFarlane 
Appointed Trustee
Pittsburgh Judge Succeeds 
Mr. W. Scaife
Judge James R. McFarlane, of 
Pittsburgh, has recently been ap
pointed to the Committee of Trustees 
for the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. This is the committee ap
pointed to UEE. after the special in
terests of Carnegie Tech. Judge Mc
Farlane has been appointed to take 
the place of Mr. Lucien Scaife, who 
died some time ago.
Judge McFarlane is a native Pitts
burgher and a graduate of Princeton 
University. For many years he has 
been a. prominent member of the 
Pittsburgh Court of Common Pleas, 
and has long been an active member 
of the Board of Trustes of the Car
negie Institute.
Tlie judge makes his home in Pitts
burgh, and resides on Woodland road, 
East End.
"PAIR OF SPECTACLES" TO
BE GIVEN THURS. AND FRI.
The Dramatic Department will 
not present any new play next week. 
They will, however, give three per
formances of the play, A Pair of 
Spectacles. which has been given on 
several other occasions, notably, be
fore the American Society of Chem
ical Engineers the first of last De
cember. Each time the play has 
been given the play has met with 
great success. '
Here will be three performances ,of 
the play this week: Thursday night, 
Friday afternoon, and Friday night. 
Tickets are now obtainable at Arts 
School, for the two night .perform
ances, and the Friday matinee is 
open to all, no tickets required.
Although there will not be any new 
play next week; the Dramatic De
partment is now working on a bill of 
four one-act plays which they plan 
to have in readiness for presentation 
the week after next.
ASSEMBLY TO CONSIDER
TWO AMENDMENTS
, (Continued From Page une.) 
regulation, which appeared in last 
weeks Tartan.
The committee will regard any 
unauthorized student event which in
terferes with the official class sche
dule as a violation of the above regu
lation, and will penalize the, elected 
officers of the class or classes, or 
the officers of Lhe organization re
sponsible for the occurrence, unless 
the Student Council shall, in the 
opinion of the. Discipline CommiLt.ee, 
take adequaLe action, or shall pre
sent to the commiLte the names of 
the student or students responsible 
for the infraction of the rules." "The 
above regulation referred Lo is one 
providing a maximum penalty of one 
years suspension for any student or 
group of students who prevent oLlier 
stndeiitH from attending classes, or 
who interfere with regularly sched
uled classes.
Tho rocommendal.ions of the Ath
letic Council for an attendant; and 
two checkroom men, for tho Union, 
were hoard and accepted.
ANNOUNCE ALL CAMPUS
WEEK SUB-CHAIRMEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
volvod upon Kenneth Tllbrook and 
appears a truly formidable task. 
Special efforts will bo made this yoar 
to arouse tho Interest of all the old 
grads.
Tho budget will bo worked out by 
Dwight Horde, Bill Foncll, Honor 
Sloail and Red O'Connor under tho 
guidance of Jerry Slye.
All of these Individuals have work
ed on previous Campus Week com
mittees and have been awarded posi
tions because of the exceptional abil
ity they have displayed in their past 
activities.
CHOOSE L. H. HARRIS
TO LEAD SENIOR BALL
AT SCHENLEY THEATER
(Continued From Pa^e One.) 
locally, for the Schenley Theater now
Manager Lunquist has succeeded 
in booking future engagements for 
the clubs for the four days beginning 
March 11, when they will make their
draws its audiences from all over the . Cleveland trip. This tjiip should 
city. The Kilties will appear there | prove another valuable advertisefor the remainder of the week.ment to Carnegie.
WOMENS PROM AT
SCHENLEY FRIDAY NIGHT
(Continued From Paco Ono.) 
tho initial foe of five dollars, wheth
er attending the Prom or not.
The committee that has worked 
very hard to mako this your stand 
out In the annals of Carnegie is com
posed of tho following girls from tho 
Margaret Morrison and the College 
of Flue Arts: Mary Mill, chairman;
Alice Nelson, Lucille Anderson, Mary 
Dale. Helen Remaley, Dorothy Con
nor, Harriet Merwin, Anne Martin, 
and Estelle Garibaldi. The President 
of the Junior Class in Margaret Mor
rison is Madeline Dale, and the Vico 
President of the Juniors in the Arts 
School is Mildred Semons.
The last word from the committee 
is come early, so as not to miss the 
Grand March, as no favors can be 
guaranteed after that time.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Prom is not for Sophomores, and for 
that, reason, the Senior Ball will be 
strictly a Senior affair, a real family 
gathering, and exceedingly formal.
The Union will be decorated, and 
lighted to give a pleasing atmos
phere. An awning will be placed 
over the entrance to protect the dain
ty misses from the weather, and 
palms wiH cover all of the evidences 
of the sclioolishness of the building.
All of that to allay any thoughts 
of the Union as it is usually thought 
of as a dance floor. There are defi
nite possibilities for the enhancing 
the atLracLiveness of the room, anti 
all of these possibilities will be util.1 
ized." The Orchestra has not yet 
been chosen, but Bun Young is 
scouting around this week, and will 
report at the next meeting. Inas
much as certain famous orchestras 
have been heard at various formals 
this year, the Commitee thinks it ad
visable to get one of good reputa
tion, but one which has not been 
heard lately.
The matter of programs and re
freshments has not been finally decidod upon, but with tho variety of 
novelties along each of these lines, 
the students can bo assured of some
thing to eat which will bo out of tho 
ordinary Commons lino, and some
thing to take home beside a memory 
and the young lady.
Any member of thci "Committee is 
willing to bo approached on the sub
ject, and each one'' Is equipped with 
pad and pencil, so ho may jot down 
all suggestions for consideration at 
tho next meeting. The Chairman 
asks that tho Seniors get together
and talk the matter over among
themselves, and then present their 
ideas ou the subject All matters
pertaining to the Ball will be con
sidered. and it is the hope of the 
Committee that the evening will be 
enjoyed as much for the novelty in 
presentation as for the dancing it
self.
BARTHELMESS TO STAR 
IN PLAY BY OSBORNE20j Ski b00o 0I nEjNiUii
Notice has been received that 
"Shore Leave, a comedy writlen by 
Professor I-IuberL Osborn, of the 
Drama Deparlment, is to be produced 
in 'moving pictures with Richard 
Barthelmess in the leading role.
Professor Osborns play was first 
produced by David Belasco at the 
Lyceum Theater, New York, in 1922, 
where' it, ran for six monlhs wiLh 
Francis Starr in the leading parL. 
Since LhaL appearance iL lias been 
playing LhroughouL lhe counlry by 
various sLock companies.
Shore Leave deals wltn a sailor 
who .casually blows inLo Lhe life of 
a New England seaport dressmaker 
and just as casually blows out again. 
But she does not forget the one kiss 
nor the fiutLer brought Lo her hearl 
by Lhe blue sulL and fair face of her 
prince charming, Bilge Smilh.
For Lwo years sne noperully awaits 
him and although he has completely! 
forgoLLen her she manages to meet 
him when his destroyer puts Lo porl. I 
OuL of consideraLion lo her faithfulness he endeavors lo conceal his 
faulty memory and pretends to re
member ' all.
Touched beyond words by her 
seeming devotion he becomes sud
denly imbued with the realization I 
that this is the sort of girl he should \ 
marry if he is to setlle down, so a! 
wedding is planned. Bilge sud
denly balks when he learns tlial his 
wife has become wealthy since their 
first encounter. Protesting that a 
wife with an income is not for him, 
he again departs.
Desolate the girl jettisons all her 
riches and returns lo dressmaking 
for a living, hopeful that some day 
Bilge will learn all and come back 
again. Her anticipalions are real
ized and all ends happily.
A. E. KROGH
APPLIED ART DEPARTMENT TO 
DROP TWO MAJOR OPTIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
which will go back to its former title 
of the Department of Painting and 
Decoration. These changes, how
ever, will not take place unlil the 
opening of the next term.
The remaining options are Paint
ing, Illustralion, Interior Decoration, 
and Normal Art.
Although Ibis change may result 
in the dropping out of a few fresh
men who had intended to pursue the 
discontinued courses, the faculty 
feel that Lhe new syslem will prove 
more saLisfaclory than the present 
one.
KILTIE BAND AT
SCHENLEY THEATER
(Continued From Page One.) 
ens, business manager; I-I. E. Ster
ling, secretary treasurer; E. J. Cerutll, custodian of equipment; J, S. 
Stern, stage manager.
Jazz Orchestra 
II. G. Horne, pianist; R. L. Jones, 
violin; L. Jones and C. E. Schauck, 
trumpets; R. A. Eichenlaub, bass 
horn; I-I. E. Sterling, trombone; K. 
Lindauer, W. F. Paulson, and J. M. 
Eckerl, saxophones; W. F. Bell, 
drums; and D. W. Stoops', banjo. 
Other Band Members 
W. P. Al brocha, C. T. Boll, W. L. 
Bell, E. C. Bothmier, K. F. Craft, L. 
F. Dean, O. A. Eichenlaub, R. D. Caylori, L. C. Grenier, S. S. Greenwood,
D. Grove, B, R. Hill, O. C. Ll-Ieureux, 
B. Maslan, lt. McKlo, 11. P. Meredith, 
II. S. Morrill, .1. E. Meuller, D. A. 
Miller, N. Peighl.nl, Pull, R. Rhoads,
E. L. smith, G. L. Starr, W. II. Tay
lor, .R. Waynmn, R. M, Woigol, Pi 
Wnrgo, Russell, and Mclnnes Colin.
SCHENLEY THEATER
The current week has boon desig
nated as Carnegie Week at the Schen
ley, the Carnegie Musical Ciubs and 
Lhe Carnegie Kiltie Band presenting 
a specially prepared musical program 
for the Schenley patrons. The Glee 
Club and the Instrumental Orchestra 
offer an interesling musicale on Tues
day and Wednesday nights. The Car
negie Kiltie Band will show Pitts
burghers that they can play good 
music as snappy as they can wear 
kilts, on Thursday, Friday and Satur
day nigh Is and the Saturday matinee. 
Smith and Lewis, harmony singers, 
present a special musical novelty at 
the matinees all week.
The Mad Whirl" heads the photo
play program on Tuesday and Wed
nesday. The players include May 
McAvoy, Jack Munhall, Myrtle S'tedman, Alec B. Francis, Ward Crane. 
Barbara Bedford, George Fawcett and 
Joseph Singleton. An Aesops Fable, 
"Bigger and Better Jails, and Lloyd 
Hamilton in the comedy, My Friend, 
are shown in addition to the latest 
News in Motion.
D. W. Griffiths historical master1 
piece, America, is the feature pho
toplay to be shown on Thursday, Fri
day and Saturday. There are so 
many thrills, heart-breaks and tri
umphs in the marvelous photoplay 
that it is ridiculous to praise any 
one thing.
Harold .Lloyd will be presented in 
one of his funniest comedies, The 
Big Idea," with the latesl News.
Lasl fall a new freshman rule went 
inlo effect here. It proved to be a 
complete failure. We are referring 
to the rule of having every Plebe say 
Hello to every upper-classman on 
the campus. We say it proved a com
plete failure. We want to go fur-1 
ther and congratulate the Plebe Class | 
on their success in thwarting their 
elders in this case. We have a great 
deal more respect for them now than 
if they were still going about here 
saying in humilialed voices': "Hello.
Why did the rule fail? It failed be
cause it deserved to fail. No selfrespecting man or woman should ever 
be required to go around and humil
iate himself before people who dont 
care a rap whether he exists or not. 
No self-respecting Plebe should be re
quired to greet people who dont wish 
to be greeted at allor who only wani 
to be greeted so that their vanity may 
be appeased.
One of the greatest things that we 
can get from our college life is the 
friendships we may form here. They 
form the bond which ties us all to
gether in that great Clan of Carnegie 
which we come to appreciate more as 
we become belter acquainted within 
it. Friendships, however, are not 
formed through requiring Plebes to 
annoy upper classmen. It is not 
foremd by upper-classmen uninten
tionally snobbing Plebes. They are 
much more fundamental than that.
The rule is an obnoxious one and 
should be repealed. Instead the sug
gestion should be made to upper-classmen to take just a bit more interest 
in the Plebes who are in need of ad
vice or friendship. It will pay us all 
to think about the troubles that faced 
us when we were Freshmen. If the 
Plebes of today will just take the 
trouble to write down all the possi
bilities for improvement which they 
see about the campus,-and preserve 
that list for the day when!,they shall 
be the leaders, it will be one of the 
greatest things ever done For The 
Good Of Carnegie.
It seems to be the common expe
rience ofSeniors that they become 
satisfied. They are unable to see 
where the faults lie. Perhaps we may 
say that we become stale. At any 
rate, the class of 1928 can do the fu
ture classes a great help by follow
ing the suggestion made.
To return to our subject. If we, 
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores 
will lake it upon us to say a cheer
ful word to the Plebes and to one 
another as we pass, there will come 
something far better from it than 
from demanding friendliness; Let us 
not make hypocrites of each other.
"Applesauce, you say. Well, per
haps, but think back to the year you 
entered. The campus is just as cold 
today as then. After all, the under
classmen are the most important peo
ple on the campus today. The rest 
of us will soon pass out of the pic
ture. Perhaps we can help make the 
picture a little better before we .go. 
Lets try.
Yours, For The Good Of Carnegie.
Song Book Staff to Award 
March Prize at Assembly
The Carnegie Song Book Staff is 
at the present time working hard at 
the completion of a group of frater
nity songs which is to form a separ
ate section of the book in the future. 
The section will contain a few songs 
from every fraternity on the campus 
and arrangements have been com
pleted with the local chapters. At 
the present time copyright permis
sion is being sought at tlie various 
National Headquarters.
The March Contest which was held 
this winter has been progressing in 
fair shape. A few marches have 
been turned in among which are one 
or two acceptable to the standard of 
the present book. There is still a 
week in which composition may be 
handed in. After that time no manu
scripts can be accepted.
The award of the prize will be 
made at the next General Assembly. 
At that time the winning march will 
be presented to the student body.
The staff has discontinued its 
policy of having sales campaigns on 
the campus. Under the new system
books may always be purchased atvLhe bookslore. The prize is lhe usual 
one dollar.
Tartan readers who can pay five 
dollars each month (like rent) on the 
Remington Portable Typewriter will 
own it in a year. Examine one at the 
Singer. Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins 
Arcade.
GIRLS!!
ERE'S your chance ..to see 
the wonders of Atlantic
SSUDENSS]
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also iu 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A~\ for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
H
City.
T
HE STRAND THEATER of
fers to send the young lady 
selling the greatest number of 
their books of tickets to this 
wonderful seaside resort, all ex
penses paid.
F
OR further particulars call at 
the box office of the Strand 
Theater.
H
ERES your chance, girls 
be sure to get the full par
ticulars at your earliest conve
nience.
Remember
The Strand 
Theater
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young People's Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
FRATERNITY MEN WILL
MEET THEIR FATE
(Continued From Page One) 
the piano stool, and probnbly will 
lose out;,
There aro twelve national frater
nities on the campus (theoretically 
speaking, counting the country clubs) 
and sinco all the locals are trying 
to make it thirteen, tho situation Is 
further superstiteized. Every thing 
points to a successful party, oh my 
yes. Furthermore we saw a member 
of tho committee walk into a Science 
Building with his umbrella up.
A prominent member of Phi Tappa 
Kegs announced that all the fraters 
would take a chance even if they 
were charged thirteen cents war tax. 
After all the good news and the op
timism, we said Well we gues well 
take a ticket. We pulled out our 
jack and counted it. and it came to 
$4.S7. Then we fainted.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, S P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
4iilllIIIlllllllllillll!llllilllll!llllil!Illl!l!ll!lillilIili!!!li!l!!!lliil!ll!l!lllli!ll!III!I!!iltlIII[lili!lllll!!l!lIII!10I!illlllillli0Ull]IllllEEIi!llllllllI!iII!!IIIllllllllllliillllfliIIIDIllllllllllliIlllillllillllllifflHl^
SEATS
25cSnHENLEY
ALL
SEATS
25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GENL MGR.
FEBRUARY 23rd--CARNEGIE WEEK--FEBRUARY 28th
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY
THE MAD WHIRL
Featuring MAY McAVOY, JACK MUNHALL, ALEC B. FRANCIS, 
iMYRTLE STEDMAN, GEORGE FAWCETT and others.
A brilliant love story of today.
COMEDY AESOPS FABLES NEWS
NIGHTS ONLY7 TO 9 OCLOCK
CARNEGIE GLEE CLUB
INSTRUMENTAL ORCHESTRASPECIAL PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
D. W. GRIFFITHS
AMERICA
Griffiths Greatest Master Photoplay. No advance in prices. 
HAROLD LLOYD COMEDY NEWS
NIGHTSSATURDAY MATINEE
CARNEGIE KILTIE BAND
SNAPPY SELECTIONS 
SMITH & LEWIS HARMONY SINGERSMATINEES MON. TO FRI.
NO TROUBLE TO PARK AT THE SCHENLEY
^

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 24. 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
1
1 -PLAID ASHLESInS
0
TARTANS TO WIND 
UP HOME SEASON
SWIMMING SCHEDULE FOR
BALANCE OF SCHOOL YEAR
W. & J. and W. Va. Wesleyan 
This Week Will be Last 
of Games in Gym
Carnegies basketball quintet is 
ready for a busy, week-end. On Fri
day night Washington and Jefferson 
wiil invade Carnegie and endeavor to 
sain their second triumph of the 
year over the Skibos. Carnegie will 
play host to West Virginia Wesleyan 
on Saturday night. The records 
spealc well for these #lwo teams and 
judging from the form they have dis
played of late Carnegie must play the 
best basketball of which she is capa
ble in order to be returned the win
ner.
West Virginia Wesleyan has played 
Carnegie twice in the past. In 1920, 
the Tartans won by a 2S to 2.5 score. 
The Bob-Cats retaliated in 1923 and 
humbled our boys 39-23. This year j 
Wesleyan has one of thebest teams j 
in West Virginia, holding victoriesj 
over Bethany and West Virginia Uni-1 
versity. Bullman, star of the Metho
dists, miist be stopped if Carnegie is 
to win this game.
Washington and Jefferson lias de
feated Carnegie once this year.' Since 
Carnegie first played W. and J.' in 
basketball she has been unable to an
nex a single victory over the Presi
dents. Our boys hope to break this 
jinx on Friday night. Fredricks and 
Carlin are the big stars on the WashJeff team. These men will be the 
big guns on Friday night.
With the general improvement in 
form shown by the varsity in the last 
month, Carnegies chance for finish
ing the season with a good record 
is very bright. Donohue and Amans 
-are listed among the best players in 
the tri-state district. Conrad, Lynch 
and Newman form a strong support
ing cast. The rest of the squad fill 
in the vacancies with brilliance when 
called upon. These men are sure to 
ive their best to cop the remaining 
games on the schedule.
Reserved seats for games this week 
are on sale at the Graduate Man
agers office and at Spaldings down
town.
Monday
Men day students ...........3:30 to 6:00
Men night students ___6:00 to 7:30
T uesday
Girl day students ...........3:30 to 6:00
Girl night students ___6:00 to 7:30
Wednesday
Men day students ...........3:30 to 6:00
Men night students i...6:00 to 7:30
Thursday
Girl day students ...........3:30 to 6:00
Girl night students ___6:00 to 7:30
Friday
Men day students ...........3:30 to 6:00
Men night students ___6:00 to 7:30
Saturday
All men students ..........2:00 to 5:00
INTER-FRAT-DORM | 
LEADERS STAND OUTOn the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
KISKI DEFEATS PLEBE 
CAGERS IN SLOW GAME
___________
Leading Teams Still Stand
. NOTRE DAME IN BASKET BALLChance Ol DroppingFrom Notre Dame is essentially a school famous for its football, but in the
past two years the Fighting Irish have'made rapid strides in the (loor game..Pedestals This season they rank as one ot the loading teams in the West, a section of
____________ the country renowned for its high-grade basket ball.
i iioi-i ,1...... .J By'the time this issue of The Tartan reaches its readers the initial has*! . Moie oi the shaKtag down process, ket 8tl.ugglc i,t,vM Carnegie and Notre Dame III In. history, aad the 
j lesuited nom tne weaKE; play m innumerous followers of the Irish in this vicinity and of the Plaid will have had 
terfraternity circles. One league | ;l chance to see how these two big schools compare in basket ball, 
j now has a single leader in uiidisThe Irish and tlie Scotch havo already met thrice in football and im
puted possession of first place: Delother contest is scheduled for next fall at South Bond. It. is to be hoped 
! ta Upsilon in the National. The that the athletic authorities at both schools will find it mutually beneficial 
| American League has Beta Theta Pi i and convenient to continue to meet not only in football and basket ball. but. 
! nosing ahead of Phi Kappa by virtue 1 iu baseball and track as well. Tradition has secured a firm footing between 
of more games played; and in ilie lliese two institutions, and there is no reason why. it; should not be fostered 
Federal loop S'cobell Hall and Delta I lurt'le1'
T
Oh, you Girlies, come in and 
get a Beautiful Marcel Wave for 
only 50c. Quick service.
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
COLLEGIATE BARBER SHOP 
MRS. HAZE, Operator
In the absence of the. Varsity on 
their eastern trip, the Carnegie Plebe 
basketball team was defeated Satur
day night, 36-14 in a listless game by 
the Kiski Prep school. Their evi
dent lack of fighting spirit occasioned 
a poor showing which might be as
cribed to Coach Irwins absence or 
an off-niglit.
With the exception of the early 
moments of the game, the game was 
one-sided, as Kiski bewildered tlie 
Plebes with their lightning passing 
and following-up shots. Their tight 
defense allowed only long shots to 
be scored from the floor.
Ullon, starring for Kiski, was able 
to use his height to advantage. From 
apposition under the basket he was 
able to hold the ball out of reach 
of his opponents, and to shoot it un
til it finally went through the hoop. 
Hurd on the Plebe team made a 
couple of beautiful shots from the 
center of the floor.
Carnegie Plebes14. Kiski36.
Munro....................F............... Jankoski
Hurd...................F................... Worral
Ritts......................C..................... Ullon
Sebastian...:-----C!................. Shively
Cowan....................G................. McLean
SubstitutionsPussey for Jankos
ki. Larimer for Worral, Bromley for 
Ritts, Mack for Munro. Field goals 
Jankoski 4, Ullon 4, Worral 3, 
Sliively 2, McLean' Pussey, Larimer, 
Hurd 3, Ritts, S'ebastion. Fouls
Kiski 4 out of 10, Carnegie 4 out of 
9. RefereeD. B. Dougherty, W. P. 
B. O. A.
Tau Delta, still set the pace.
I Three teams were exceptionally 
j busy.  The Betas annexed two j 
games, both by wide margins, which 
allowed Max Bastian to get a total 
I of eighteen field goals for the week! 
; and set a mark of ten in one con-1 
j test. Quite different was the career 
j of Pi K. A., although they also won 
! two games. Their margin of victory! 
| in the clash with the A. T. O.s was j 
j just two points, and against Handerj 
j son Hall one point. The loss of Ben 
J Ivristof, from injury in the, latter: 
I game, is liable to prove serious to j
THE EASTERN TRIP 
The Tartans last week completed one of their most successful 
Trips of any sport in recent years, winning from Franklin & Marshall 
College of Lancaster and Drexel Institute of Philadelphia, and losing 
to the powerful City College of New York by a close score. Three 
games on three successive nights is a pretty big order, especially 
when there is any traveling to be done, but the Plaid warriors 
brought glory to Carnegie and themselves by the manner in which 
they performed. They flashed brilliant and clean basket ball upon 
their opponents, with the result that those who witnessed the Skibos 
in action have nothing but praise and commendation for them. The 
Clans in the various cities visited turned out in large numbers, show
ing that the alumni are whoel-heartedly behind Tartan athletics. We 
should have more of these beneficial trips in every sport.
Coach Lubic is still on the sick list, and John Irwin took charge of the
i them. The S. A. E. team dropped j varsity on the Eastern trip. Only two more weeks of basket ball remain,
ia pair of coutests, but partially rei and the chances are that another coach will take charge of the varsity for the
deemed itself in the eyes of its folremaiiKler of the season, Irwin returning to his duties with the Plebes.
' lowers by putting up a strong fight, iJimmy Robertson was in charge of the Plebes last week in the 
absence of Coach Irwin, and while the yearlings lost a one-sided 
game to Kiski it was not because Jimmy did not get the best out of 
the men. It was simply a case of too much Kiski, and enough praise 
cannot be bestowed upon the Saltsburg institution for the excellent 
team representing them this year.
{in the last game, holding the highlyj 
| touted Phi Kappa outfit to a low 
score. Eschers guarding featured in I 
botli games.
For the rest, the D. U.s held their 
lead by gaining another victory, Mej 
Gill Hall knocked Ivappa 'Sigma Rho 
out of the lead in 'the Federal Lea
gue, and. the S. E. P.s entrenched 
themselves securely in third place in 
the American.
Results last week:
Delta Upsilon ...................................39
Woodlawn ...........................................16
CITMAS CLUB TO HOLD
SMOKER AT ACACIA HOUSE
(Continued From Page One.)  
of Tlieo. P. Moessner, who quit 
school last semester. A trustee will 
also be elected to complete the term 
of Prof. Hoyle.
All Master Masons connected with 
Carnegie are eligible for membership 
to the Citmas Club and are urged 
to come to this smoker and get ac
quainted.
Dont Be An Antique
Some people look like an old relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. Youll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
When You Face the 
Business World
When your Bchool life ia over nnd 
you face the business world, you 
will apprecinto the bank connec
tions that you form today. The ex
perience in financial matters which 
a bank account affords, will 
strengthen your confidence and 
make more likely your chances of 
success.
We invite your consideration of the 
Mellon National Bank. Regardless 
of the size of your account you will 
find here a genuine spirit of serv
ice in the conduct of your financial 
affairs.
Capital and Surplus $13,500,000.00
Mellon National Bank
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
J Saturday eveningsPrivate lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0235 
for Table Reservations.
--.2j
Our New 
Oakland Store ji
1 Corner Forbes and
Atwood Street
is servinq a most delicious 
t Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
!We invite the students to 
I meet their friends in the Reyj Chew it after 
every meal '
H2 stimulates 
appetite; and 
aids digestion. 
It makes your 
iood do yon more 
good. Note how 
It relieves tliat staiiy flee ling 
alter hearty eating.
.Whitens teeth.
breath und 
If the jjoo<ly that
Pi Kappa Alpha .. 
Alpha Tau Omega
..............12
..............10
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................27
Henderson .................*..........:...........26
Beta Theta Pi 
Acacia ..............
Beta Theta Pi ...................................34
Sigma Nu ..........................................10
Sigma Epsilon Phi .............................14
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ......................1.0
Phi Kappa ..........................................If)
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .......................11
Kappa Sigma .....................................31
Delta Mu ..................,........................ 7
Scobell ...........................................'..10
Iota Sigma Delta ............................. 1
McGill ...............................................10
Kappa Sigma libo ...........................10
Welch ..............
Delta Chi Rho
....18 
... .15
INTER-FRAT-DORM SCHEDULE 
FOR THIS WEEK INTERESTING
Graduate Manager Clarence Overend and Mr. Lee, a member ol the 
Athletic Council, made the trip East with the varsity. They .acted as advance 
agents and stirred up pep among members of the Clans iu each city. Tho 
results were more than gratifying.
The players who made the trip were Newman, Donohoe, Conrad, Amans. 
Beede, Lynch, Glair/,, Cook and Harris, everyone of thom getting into the 
games. In addition Trainer Bert Munhall, Coach John Irwin and Student 
Manager Cutting went with the toam. It is reported that Jackie Harris said 
when Lhe men boarded the rattlers: 1 can hardly wait until we get to Now 
York. Youyou know, Ive never seen the ocean."* + *  # *
Investigation shows that we have never defeated Wash-Jeff at basket 
ball, though we have come very close to doing so several times. Wo lutvo a 
suspicion that we .are going to turn the trick Friday.+ * + * # *
The game against West Virginia Wesleyan will be the final one 
in the new nym this season. The following week the bleachers will 
be torn down and baseball battery candidates will Immediately begin
to limber up and work the kinks out of their arms. Track men will
also do preliminary stunts, and at the first sign of good weather they 
will trot outdoors.
Carnegie42. F. & M.19.
Donahoe................F.................. Gerber
Newman.................F............. Dahamen
Conrad..................C................. Murphy
Amans...................G........... Garrlguor
Lynch.....................G................... Brown
Field goalsDonohoe 4, Nowman 
3, Conrad 3, Amans 5, Lynch 2, 
Beede, Dahamen, Brown 2, nobock 3.
PITT MEETS PLAID IN 
GUN FIGHT THIS WELK
Thursday and Friday of this wook 
are the dates sol; for the rlllo moot 
with Pitt. Manager Kelly announces 
that tho members luivo boon point* 
ing toward this match since tho be
ginning of the soason, and should bo 
Foul goalsTech (! out of 10, F. & I in good condition for it.
M. 7 out of 20. SubstitutionsBeede 
for Newman, rtoberts for Murphy, 
nefereeIvompncr. , UmpireGrube |
February 24Sigma Epsilon Phi 
vs. Kappa Sigma (A.L.), 7:30; Kappa 
Sigma Rho vs. Welch (F.L.), 7:30; 
Della Tau Delta vs. McGill (F.L.),| 
8:30; Theta Xi vs. Delta Upsilon 
(N.L.), 8:30.
February 25Beta Theta Pi vs.
Drexel14'
Schwarz................F.........
Logan.....................F.........
Dugan...................C.f...
Powers...................G........
Gregor y............. .G.-----
Substitutions  Drexel, 
for Logan, Gibbs for Dugan, Dugan 
for Bedell, ONoil for Gibbs, Gibbs 
for Gregory; Carnegie, Amans for 
Conrad, Gian/, for Lynch, Cook for 
Conrad. Field goalsDroxol, Croon*
The contest will bo shot off In tho 
indoor range under tho Margaret 
Morrison building, which has Just 
been put In llrst class shape and is 
entirely modern in every respect. 
Each Carnegie man IHUUU shoot shoul
der to shoulder with ono oi tho Pitt 
team members, and as the toams 
have been averaging about tho same 
Lynch I cores all season It will bo a battle
aroonlpor({|tor .........
Rifle shooting 1 a. regularly ac
credited sport a I: Carnegie, the' team 
members receiving minor sport lottors, and a. shoulder lo shoulder 
match of Ibis kind Is highly Interest*
Carnogie Tech38.
.............. Donohoe
Nowman 
Conrad 
.. Amans
Ben Kristof Injured
In Basketball Game
(Courtesy Gazette Times)
Hg!!
BASEBALL TO START 
WITHIN TWO WEEKS
Attractive Schedule is Being 
Drawn Up by Student 
Manager Joynt
A very unfortunate incident oc
curred last 'Thursday evening during 
the basketball game between the Pi 
Kappa Alpha and Henderson Hall 
fives, when Big" Ben Kristof, a 
member of the former team, crashed 
into the stands during one of the ex
citing moments of the contest. Bon 
suffered a broken leg in addition to 
minor injuries, and was immediately 
taken to the Wost Penn Hospital. 
Investigation showed that his log 
was broken in two places; both 
above and below tho ankle.
News of his misfortune comes as 
a shock to Boils many friends on tho 
campus. Ho was prominent in all ac
tivities, being a regular for tho past 
three years on tho football team, and 
serving on many committees, tho 
most recent of which was tho Junior 
Prom committee. Ho is also a mem
ber of tho Druids.
It is not definitely known whothor 
Bens Injury will koop him from play
ing football next soason, but ho is 
under tho care of callable surgeons 
and 1L Is hardly necessary to add 
that every olTorl. will be expended to
ward a. complete and successful re
covery.
L. C. HUGHES ELECTED
CAPTAIN OF RIFLE
TEAM AT MEETING
Rhi Kappa (A.L.), 7:30; Delta Mu berg 2, Dugan, Schwartz. Gregory; Ing and filed with thrills.
vs. Acacia (A.L.), 8:30; Delta Chi ! Carnegie, Donohoe 3, Newman 4, ConRlio vs. Iota Sigma Delta (F.L.), 
7:30.
February 26Kappa Sigma Rho vs. 
Scobell (F.L.),. 7:30 Alpha Tau Omrad 4, Amans, Lynch. Foul goals 
Drexel, Schwartz, Dugan, Powers; 
Carnegie, Donohoe 5, Newman 4, Con
rad, Lynch 2, ONeil. ReforeeAlega vs. Beta Sigma Rho (N.L.), 7:30; | len. UmpireAbrams. Time of
The match will begin at 3:30 p. m. 
each evening and plenty of room has 
been provided for everyone who 
wishes to attond.
Iolta Sigma Delta vs. McGill (F.L), 
8:30; Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Woodlawn 
(N.L.), 8:30.
TARTANS WIN TWO AND
LOSE ONE CONTEST
Halves20 minutes.
C. C. of N. Y.22. Carnegie20.
Goldberg................F............. Donohoe
Raskin...................F............. Newman
Slatta..................C.................... Conrad
Meisel.....................G.................. Amans
Plaut.....................G.................. Lynch
Field goalsl-Iaskin, Scheim 4, 
Geishman, Match. Donohoe, Newman 
Hod(Continued From Page One.) 
the same as Knute Rockne did in
football last fall, but five minutes had 2, Conrad, 2, Amans 2. Fouls 
scarcely gone by before the first enblatt, Scljein. Geichman 4, Match,1 internationally famous pianist, will 
string men were rushed to the resDonohoe 2- Amans 3, Lynch. S'ubstl-( make her first appearance in PittsLECTURE TUESDAY AT RODEF
SHALOM BY DR. L. L. MANN
How to get the Most out of Life 
will be the theme of Dr. Louis L. 
Manns lecture to be delivered on 
Tuesday evening, February 24, at tho 
Rodef Shalom Temple at Fifth and 
Morewood avenues, before the Coun
cil of Jewish Women. On this oc
casion Mine. Germaine S'chnitzer, the
At a mooting of lho Carnoglo Tech 
Rlllo Team last Thursday, Lyle C. 
Hughes, was olooted captain, to talco 
Ilio placo of former caplaln Stewart, 
who has resigned Ills position duo to 
pressure of his studios.
Hughes Is a senior In the Indus
tries School, has led the toam In 
scoring In all hut ono meet tills year, 
and is ably (|iial I Hod us a leader In 
tho sport, and Is wolMlkod by all tho 
momhors of tho team. Ho was olofilod on the first ballot by a unanimous 
vote,
It was also deemed to on tor the 
National Rlllo Association Intercol
legiate Championship contest which 
will bo shot aomo time In March. 
The match covering four posltl/mrt, 
ten shots to tho target, and if tho 
toam continues Its prosont rapid Im
provement It should bo able to placo 
woll.
During the past few weeks, plans, 
for tho 15)25 baseball team have 
rapidly been taking definite shape. 
The Graduate Manager's office is as
sembling a schedule which gives pro
mise of being one of the best Car
negie has ever had In the sport. Tho 
three gamo series with Pitt which 
I has created so much interest during 
the past basketball season, cannot bo 
extended to baseball, as was hoped,' 
for the Panthers will not have u team 
this season. Arrangements are in 
progress with Penn State, West Vir
ginia, and ono or two big western, 
schools. There will also be a big 
eastern trip which will Include in ad
dition to Delaware, and Navy, several 
of the most prominent colleges in tho 
east.
The field to be used for practico 
and perhaps several home games, is 
Schenley Oval. This tract is' a bit 
rongli in spots but negotiations are 
progressing which will provide for 
Lhe reconditioning of at: least one of 
its several diamonds. In addition to 
its proximity, this field affords 
plenty of room for a large squad on 
which to work out. The Oval was 
used during the early part of last 
soason, and proved very satisfactory.
As soon as the basketball soason 
Is over and the stands aro takon 
down In tho gym, a call will be is
sued for the batteries. The now 
gym should provo Itself an excellent 
place for the twlrlers to start tholr 
preliminary training while it is still 
Impossible to practice outside, as tho 
colling Is high and the building has 
the necessary length. Tlio second 
woolc of March has boon set as tho 
vory latest for tho start of battery 
practice.
Coach Don Blythe has boon taking 
an Inventory of available material 
during tho last few wooks, and wlillo 
ho Is not willing to do any hasty pre
dicting, It Is understood that pros
pects for tho coming season aro un
usually brilliant, Quito a few of last 
years varsity mon aro still Iu school, 
as aro also several star members of 
the former freshman squad. Among 
those of ability who aro oxpuotod out 
for the team this year are: Dlffloy,
Conrad, Lynch, .'Ioil Christoff, McClel
land, Nowman, Frost, Bowser, Maur
er, Plummer and ol.hors.
'PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Carnegie Tech, to attend tills mootin'g at Rodef Shalom Tomplo, Tues
day, February 24, at 8:00 p; m.
s
?
?? Girls
,t,f Attention
Get your Shampoos nnd MarV oels for tho Junior Prom and 
j. Soph Hop at
1 We
| BETTY ROGERS 
1 BEAUTY PARLOR
Y 312 NORTH CRAIG STREET
X Near Center Avenue
X Only Five Blocks from School AX
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
cue, for the Tartans had jumped into 
a three-point lead.
It was by far the fastest game 
in which anjr Carnegie five had ever 
participated, and one that turned out 
to be a rough one before it was over. 
The lightning-like criss-cross passing 
| of the home team was thrilling to be
hold, but the Plaid quint broke up 
these passes time and again. The 
first half ended with the score 15-13 
in favor of the City College.
The second half opened with 
bang, both teams playing a close 
guarding game and little scoring was 
done. Despite the fact that nearly 
every one of the Plaid boys were suf-1 
fering from injuries obtained in the 
first two games, they bore up nobly 
under the terrific pace. The Tartans 
forged ahead in this half, but the 
home team caught up just before the 
game was over. With only a few sec
onds remaining, Schein dropped in a 
long shot which was the deciding 
factor.
To pick out any outstanding star 
for the Plaid would be an injustice 
to the rest of the team. The team
work and stellar playing of every one 
of the boys was responsible for the 
wonderful showing made on the trip.
The Clans turned out in each city 
in full force and the demonstration 
in honor of the boys was an inspir
ing thing to the Tartans. They did 
not lack for rooters at any of the 
games, and in turn the Carnegie root
ers had just cause to feel proud of 
their team.
The lineups:
tutionJosephson for Slata, I-Ioden 
blatt for Meisel, S'chein for Joseph 
son, Geichman for Raskin, Match for 
Plaut, Raskin for Goldberg, Goldberg 
for Raskin; Carnegie Tech, none.
There was a young lady named Ella 
Who had a bow-legged fellow.
One day he said Please 
Come sit on my knees.
She did, and fell through to t-he cellar.
Ex.
burgh.
Dr. Mann, who is the successor of 
the late Dr. Emil G. Hirscli of Sinai 
Temple, Chicago, is a brilliant and 
earnest speaker. The problems of 
modern youth and the responsibil
ities of modern parents are the sub
jects nearest to his heart, and will 
undoubtedly call forth Ills best effort.
The Council of Jewish Women ex
tends a cordial invitation lo the fac
ulty, students, and their friends, of
See EUROPE
32 Days **83 all cxperases
(including round trip steamship fares from New York)
Inter fraternity Standings
Delta Upsilon ... 
Pi Kappa Alpha
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Woodlawn...................................................................
Boss ...................................................................................... 0
Beta Theta PI ----
Pill Kappa ..............
Sigma Epsilon Phi
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sigma Nu
401.000
41..800
22.ROO
22.500
12.33:1
12.333
I3.250
02.000
401,000
301.000
1.750
2.500
2:t.400
I2.250
0:i.000
0z.000
FEDERAL LEAGUE
McGill
Welch
Delta Phi Delta . 
Iota Sigma Delta
301.000
301.000
21. liti
21.606
21.66603.000
0.000
03.000
S. S. LeviathanWorld's Lamest Steamship
YJOUND out your education by seeing Europe this IV summer. Go via the United States Lines and you 
are sure to have the vacation, of a lifetime.
Ask the United States Lines representative on your 
campus for the new, illustrated jo-page booklet written 
by a Princeton professor, containing specimen tours with 
detailed itineraries and costs.
For example, on a comprehensive 32'day trip you can 
visit four countries of Europe and travel both ways in 
specially prepared and exclusive tourist third class cab' 
ins for only $383.35.
Find out about the tours sailing on the
S. S. Leviathan June 13th and July 25th,
S. S. George Washington June 10th and July 8th.
Improved tourist third class on the famous United 
Staves Lines ships provides light, airy and clean state' 
rooms with delightfully comfortable berths, excellent 
food and service, daily concerts, dances and sports on 
broad, sunny decks.
Get the facts, organize your party and make your 
reservations early.
United States Lines
45 Broadway New York City
Mhiko'Jik: Operators for
UNTTF.D STATES SHIPPING BOARD 
LOCAL OFFICE JENKINS ARCADE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1925
&ALUMNI PAbE
&
Field of the College of Engineering
(By Director William E. Mott)
The chief aim of all the couruou of 
study offered in the Col logo of Engi
neering 1 to train young men to 
thinkprimarily, in f.ennn of Hclontiilc fact and lawbut whether the 
problem in hand 1 scientific, or not, 
the scientific or engineering habit 
of mind is the important thing. Many 
of the problems which the engineer 
lias to VEUHE are not capable of an 
accurate solution in the mathema
tical sonso; but a wound conclusion 
depend upon an ability to discover 
all the facts pertinent to the caso, 
sound judgment as to the relative 
importance of these facts (are they 
really facto?) and then a careful and 
unerring application of the Icnown 
laws of chemistry, physics, mechan
ics, etc., to these facts. Thus, briefly 
may wo derive a scientific solution 
of our problem. But just hero many 
engineers "fall down. This scien
tifically accurate product may bo In
appropriate, or even impossible, aw 
a part of a larger scheme or project. 
It may not bo economically sound 
and hero enters another factor which 
the successful ongineer must culti
vate, namely, experience.
Dr. 'wain has recently simplified 
the classlfic definition of an engineer 
in these words: "Engineering is tho
science and art of applying econom
ically the laws, forces and materials 
of nature for tho use, convenience, 
or enjoyment of man. Wo see that 
tho product of engineering must 
not only bo theoretically correct, but 
also economically sound.
It is interesting to note that tho 
word "engineer' is derived from a 
sanserif' root, jan, moaning to ho 
born. Now, simply because a young 
man is interested in his homemade 
wireless outfit;, or in his father's 
Ford, is not to bo takon oven as prima 
facia evidence that tho hoy Is a 
"born engineer. However, tho suc
cessful ongineer, as a youth, may 
have shown an interest in scientific 
matters; possessed habits of order
liness and thoroughness; developed 
his imagination, but not to tho dogreo of being temperamental; and 
last, but not least,; he may have been 
ingenious and resourcefula lender 
among his follows. A man can not 
be a succonful onglnoor and bo dis
honest. Natures laws and materials 
can not* ho evaded nor trifled with, 
and n lack of "backbone, or moral 
fiber, on the part of the engineer, bo 
he youna or old, will nlmoot Inevitnbly become nppnrent In the product 
of hin brnln or hand.
So much for what I concoivo to ho 
tho specification of what an onglnoor 
should mensuro up to. Engineering 
is In its youthIf not In its Infancy. 
Tho first' man to call himself a civil
engineer, Smoaton, was practicing In 
England in 1782; and today wo have 
so many hinds of engineers that tho 
time )s fast approaching when many, 
If not all, tho states will requJro a 
license to practice and draw a sharp 
lino between the professional engi
neer and tho *'<iunck.'
Adinlssion to the College of Engi
neering presupposes a four'year high 
school course, or its equivalent, em
phasis having been laid upon mathe
matical subjects, physics, English 
and one foreign language. Those, 
together with elective subjects, must 
total not less than fifteen units. The 
courses of study are organized In 
such fashion tliat fill students re
ceive a thorough training In mathe
matics, chemistry, physics and mech
anics. Upon this ground-work of tho 
basic sciences aro built up the more 
specialized and technical courses, 
and too narrow specialization is 
guarded against by the requirement 
thiit all students must take courses 
In tho elements of Civil, Electrical 
and Mechanical Engineering.
During tho Freslimnn year a course 
In Industrial History presents to the 
student tho historical background of 
tho modern industrial life, of which 
lie is to become a part, and in the 
Sophomore year a course in the prin
ciples of Economics affords him an 
opportunity to lay a foundation for 
tho economic aspects of his later 
work. Engineers, unfortunately, too 
often lack a good command of the 
English language. While English 
Composition Is required throughout 
the Freshman year and additional 
English courses may bo elected later 
on, yet tho proper uso of English 
should bo emphasized in tho propatory school where correct habits of 
writing and speaking aro more easily 
acqulrod than in an engineering 
school.
In tho Freshman year, again, brief 
shop courses aro introduced with a 
view to giving tho student some in
sight into tho fundamental produc
tion procossos. Drawing is sometiinos 
called tho languago of tho onglnoor. 
Ho may not himself become export 
In this particular method of expres
sion, but unless ho can road and In
terpret drawings an engineer is 
"lost. Thoroforo, a year of training 
in onglnoorlng drawing and doscrlptlvo geometry is required of all 
Freshman.
How tho training and knowledge 
gained by study and drill In such 
"fundamentals nro applied to spoclallzod courses for Chemical, Civil, 
Commercial, Electrical, Mechanical, 
Metallurgical and Mining onglnoor
lng, ns well as for Chemistry, Phy
sics and Mathematics wil bo set forth 
In later artlclos.
DRAMAT PLAYS AT 
PITT LAST WEEK
Entire Cast Visits the Arts 
Theater For Special P. M. 
Performance
Last week Pittsburghers were pri
vileged to see another graduate of 
the Drama Department at Carnegie 
who lias a part In a current play, in 
tho person of Norman Hoeffer, who 
appeared last week at tho Pitt Thea
ter In "The Goose Hangs High, a 
splendid comedy by Lewis Beach.
Mr. Hoeffer camo to CarnegJe in 
1022 and remained hero until the fall 
of 1024 of tho Drama Department. 
He appeared many times in tho Arts 
Theater in Drama Department' pro
ductions and is well known by many 
Carnegie students.
He joined this, tho first cast of
"The Goose Hangs I-Ugh last Sep
tember. This is the samo company 
that played eight months in New
York at the Bijou Theater and eleven weeks at the Princls Theater in 
Chicago.
Last Friday afternoon Mr. Hoeffer 
and tho entire cast of the downtown 
show attended a special matinee per
formance of Anne Pedersdottbr, the 
Norwegian play by H. WierB Jenssen, 
which ran last week in the Arts Tlieater. The guests were agreeably sur
prised by the splendidly finished per
formance they witnessed and they ex
pressed their commendation upon 
the work of tho Drama Department 
in their Little Theater productions.
HOP COMMITTEE
DEVELOPS SCHEME TO
LESSEN DIFFICULTIES
EWING-DAVIS
A pretty wedding was nolomnlzod In 
tho Sixth Prohytorlan Church on 
Saturday evening, February 14, by Dr. 
Henjamlu 1. Frber,
Mlnti Margaret 11)wing, daughter of 
Mr. and Mrs. Jumos F. Ewing of South 
Nogley avenue, Pittsburgh, wan mar* 
rlod to Joseph rinvi of Huff alo, New 
York.
Mr. Iinvili hi graduato of Industries 
Colloco In the class of 1024, and a 
member of the Acacia fraternity.
After a wedding journey, Ml*, and 
Mrs. Davis will live In Buffalo.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRE88 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Oconolontf.
All now and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOIt 
800 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pltsburgh, Pn.
MEN'S STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
AI.IIMNAI: ASSOC. LIST 
FOR PAID-UP MEMBERS
Chart showing paid-up members 
of tho Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association up to February 14, 11)24.
0
in
'/
0*
0
1
!/O
gSi
8
(D

f
:i5540nu7.3
1024034702.0
11119102502. r.
111:17an2100
11)212003450
1920492755
11)2754053
1901)401947
11)1(1201240
Join371845
Assoc.743445
1911471838
1912401537
1918381436
191430930
191029827
19231317
('Continued From Pago One.) 
surname initial of tho man -whose 
Initial comes first in tho alphabet. 
For example: Mr. Bungle exchanges
two with Mr. McDuff. Before and 
after dance two Mr. McDuff, Mr. 
Bunglo, and their partners will meet 
under letter "B. The plan is very 
simple, and Bhould help to maintain 
order. Tho program will explain 
these arrnngomonts in full.
In order to prevont confusion at 
the door, and to give tho committee 
somo figures on which to work, it In 
roquostod that nil who can should 
buy tickets as soon as poBBiblo. 
Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors, and 
Alumni aro ollglblo. Tickets may bo 
obtained from tho committee: OUE 
Utlbblott and Swallow of Margaret
[ CLAN NEWS 1
NEW YORK CLAN
Once again the New York Clan 
scored a knockout. They were 
right there to render the service and 
assistance which tho Carnegie 
"cagers desired In the way of sight
seeing, luncheon, fellowship and sup
port at the game.
The Carnegie players arrived in 
New York at 7:00 a. m and stop
ped at tho Pennsylvania Hotel. Dur
ing the morning the boys were 
shown around New York and at 1:00 
p. m. they were rushed to Stewart's 
Restaurant, 30 Park Place, where the 
Carnegie tossers were tho guests of 
the New York Clan at luncheon.
At 8:45 p. m., tho "Old Guard 
assembled at C. C. N. Y. Gym, One 
Hundred and Thirty-eighth and Con
vent streets giving support to the 
Carnegie players. All the Carnegie 
rooters were seated in one block. 
This aided the cheering.
Mr. Clarence "Buddy Overend, 
Graduate Manager of Athletics, and 
Mr. L. H. Lee, a member of the Car
negie Athletic Council also were pres
ent in New York at the luncheon and 
the game.
This is the first time that just such 
a demonstration has been given to a 
Carnegie team outside of Pittsburgh. 
It has shown the students that the 
Carnegie Alumni are back of them 
and will be back of them stronger 
each year.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLAN
On Saturday, February 21, the 
Clyeveland Womens Clan held its 
February meeting at the home of 
Mrs. James Sparks (Nellie Bigley), 
2013 Wyandotte avenue, Lakewood.
The Clan is planning to hold a 
combination bridge and tea on March 
14, at the Alcazar Hotel. This 
meeting is being held for two pur
poses. One is to provide a means 
of getting Carnegie men and women 
together; the other to raise money 
for a scholarship to send a Cleveland 
girl to Carnegie.
Morrison, Messers. Bowser and Medert from Science Miss Waldron and 
Jim Torney from Arts, and McWil
liams and Peterson from Industries; 
or from the four Sophomore Presi
dents, members of the Druids, and 
special BaleBmon in the Sophomore 
class. The assessment is only }3.50 
per couple, a real bargain.
NEW CLUB FORMED 
BY J0HNST0WNIANS
Students From Johnstown and 
Nearby Counties Eligible 
to Claymore
Field of the College of Fine Arts
(By H. D. McGoodwin, Acting 
Director)
Few students on the campus are 
aware that a new student organiza
tion has been formed. Naturally, 
since it is of the type which holds 
interest only in a particular locality. 
The organization which is at present i 
on a ..years probation is known by 
tho name "Claymore, thus bringing 
into usage another word of Scotch 
origin. If anyone Is sufficiently in
terested to consult Webster the de
rivation can he found, and at the 
same time the future symbol of the 
group.
This group is composed of students 
from Johnstown, Pa., and from the 
counties which immediately surround 
that city. Any student who lives in 
that area and is in good standing at 
Carnegie is elegible for membership. 
The organization is yet young, and all 
possible members are invited to 
come to the next meeting which will 
be made known sufficiently in ad
vance to make it possible for all to 
attend.
In nature it is a social organiza
tion with the aim of promoting cam 
pus activities, and to arrange, in con
junction with the Home Alumni 
Clan, some plan of activities which 
will tend to keep the bond between 
those attending school and those 
who have graduated ever fresh and 
active. These activities will be 
planned to occur during holidays and 
vacation periods.
The organization of this body was 
effected at a meeting held late in 
December, at which a very good por
tion of the Alumni were present. 
They gave their support to the pro
posed club without reservation and 
promised to do all In their power to 
help it to succeed in its purpose. At 
that time a constitution was drawn 
up, and this instrument was placed 
before the Student Council for ac
tion. The following officers were 
elected at that time: President. B.
J. Kristof; Vice President, R. J. Kredel; Secretary, Genevieve Conser; 
nnd Treasurer A. E. Thomas.
In addition to the officers named, 
the membership includes Grace Bro
derick, Imolda Rinkenberger, Adele 
Hahn. Alice Ribblett, Ethelyn BauerLate Registration Puts Second Semester
Enrollment Beyond September Total
Tho sdml*nnmial roport from tho 
Registrava office BotB tlio gi'OBs total 
rogistrullon ut . 2251, which number 
ls aulLo In excoBS of tho total afe roKl fi trailo n last fall, Tho groat 
limonili, of BlckiiesB provalont lmu 
ciuniod a groat number of ntudonts io 
roglfltor lato, and nw lato roglstrnnts 
are oomlng In hourly, II. is oxpoctod 
Mint. tho Unni rosults wlll oxoood any 
so far oli record at any idmliar porlod of tho yoar.
This increase is most unusual 
when one considers tho losses that 
inevitably result in tho Freshman 
classes after mifl-year. All four colloges, and especially tho colleges of 
Engineering and Industries have suf
fered greatly in this respect. Tho 
increase is duo to tho groat number 
of now students who liavo ontored 
tills torni.
A comparison of tho figures of last, 
fall with the latest figures so far 
this month, is ns follows:
Sept. Feb.
Engineering .......................410 436
Industries .......................'...278 320
Fine Arts .............................533 502
Margaret Morrison ............471 507
Those figures do not include all 
tho students registered in part time 
courses and in special courses for 
they can register at any time during 
tho yoar and leave when their cours
es aro completed.
Detailed registration figures will 
bo found in tho box below.
Craig Restaurant
The place where nil the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
The Only SQUIRREL HILL 1 
F LOVER SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hnzel 51-19 Nenr Forbea
VS largest soiling 
qualify puncil 
ilia world
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famous
ENUS
PENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, per dor. $1.00 
Rubber ends, per dor. 1.20 
c/if all dealers 
Amcricnn Lead Pencil Co. 
220 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
If you are delinquent, ?4 places 
you in good standing.
If you owe for tho current year, 
1*2 places you in good standing.
If you married a Carnegie man, 
and you both belong to the associa
tion, ?3 places you in good standing.
Life membership, 50.00.
Pay your dues! Bring up your 
class average!
For the good of Carnegie!
'Papa said the small son, what 
do they mean by college bred? Is 
it different from any other kind of 
bread.
My son, said the father, It is 
a four year's loaf.
Smiles 
^ back, at
I Oakland Savings & f 
I Trust Co.
REGISTRATION FOR THE YEAR 1924-25
February 18, 1925
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES 
Building Construction .... 
Machinery Production ...
Printing ..............................
Teachers .............................
Unclassified .......................
Graduate
Total Gross...............
Total Net.......................
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Chemical ...............................
Civil .......................................
Commercial .........................
Electrical ...............................
Mechanical ..........................
Metallurgical ........................
Mining ...................................
ScienceChemistry ...........
Physics ................
Mathematics ..........................
Unclassified .........................
SeniorJuniorSophomore FreshmanShortTotal
17203309139
21183755131
1210S1545
24219
22
52 \5280 ...142326
444474102264
771125
122123i58
23353896
31324G2111
25201762
563IS
546is38
6.2111
272 i12
Total Gross ............................. 15
Total Net ................................. 13
FRESHMEN (Ind. & Eng.)..........................
Total Net .............................;.
MARGARET MORRISON 
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Academic Library ...................................
Costume Economics ...................... 1
Household Economics ....................
I-Isld. & Cos. Economics................ ...
Genernl Science .......................................
Secretarial ...................................... 3
Social Work ................................... 1
English Minor...........................................
Unclassified ................................... '....
116
113
Total Gross 
Total Net .. 
COLLEGE OF
FINE ARTSM WMWM
Architecture .......1 ..1429
Drama ..................4127
Music ...................2 i1133
Paint, fe Ulus.......637
Applied Art ........4910
Sculpture ... 
Unclassified
il
7
so
73
w
1
4
11
s
il
1
134
121
21
21
12
1
13
11
12
97
94
M
42
11
7
11
5
1
M
68
19
10
21
13
150
131
5
31
13
9
7
3S
11
9
123
112
W l\
1
15 
36
16 
23
1
390
30S
10
1
S
1
5
1
1
170
170
111
Qual. 
I M W
4 4 !.
5 4 1
3 3
6 3 1
21
15
10
6
6
1
7
1
1
32
25
M
166
46
35
49
40
436
393
390
308
20
74
62
22
13
78
37
30
171
507
446
Total168
90
126
87
I 100 
12
1
Member Federal Reserve y
System.
{* Capital.........................$300,000.00 
 Surplus -.....................$300,000.00 
V Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
A X SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
 FOR RENT
Total...................3 1293750 3477 56131 9527 2S16 2339 253592
Total Gross.............4609013322655IS592592
Total Not ................717611s1794711502502
SUMMARY
GraduateSeniorJuniorSophomore FreshmanShortQualifyTotalGross
M WMWM WM WM WM WM WM W
Engineering ....................15 ,.1161S4 ..15021 ..436 .436
Fine Arts ........................3 1293756 3477 56131 9527 2S16 2339 253592
Industries ........................5252 ..SO ..142 ..,326 ..326
M. M. C. C......................... 5. .1SO.. 97.. 123.. 17032.. 507607
Freshmen (Ind. & Eng.).390390
IS 6197117242 131307 179521 265190 6016 21491 7602251
Total Gross.....................243143734S67S6250IS22512251
Total Net........................14301S3543562S1S91119131913
In the Atlantic Monthly for Feb
ruary, 1924, Mr. Langdon Mitchell 
presents a critical survey of Amer
ican civilizationespecially as to the 
results it has produced in the way of 
leading us to a sane enjoyment of 
life; of ieading us to appropriate and 
enjoy the finest things that have been 
made by God and menthat is to 
say, the beauties of nature and the 
beauties of art. It is interesting to 
note that in his diagnosis as to the 
nature of what he calls the Amer
ican malady this critic thinks the 
most striking symptom is that Amer
icans have not had, or have lost, the 
delight in beauty which has disting
uished those peoples whose civiliza
tions have reached the greatest per
fection, and which have bequeathed 
the most worthy things to succeeding 
generations.
This estimate is not made in a 
spirit of gratuitous fault-finding. It 
is difficult to see how conditions 
could have been different among a 
people whose first centuries had to 
be devoted to the conquest of an un
explored continent and to problems 
of physical well being. This con
quest and these problems may now 
be regarded as measurably finished. 
It is only just that we should judge 
ourselves and be judged, hereafter, 
as highly civilized or not, according 
to our ability to appreciate and aujoy beauty. It is this ability that 
brings the serenest joy into men's 
lives; that most clearly distinguish
es'civilized men from barbarians.
A grave responsibility, therefore, 
rests upon those engaged in teaching 
young people who aspire to become 
professional artists. A shrewd criti
cism such as that above referred to, 
puts clearly before us our responsi
bility for the effective use of power 
to guide forces that may control the
I characteristics of our people.
I At Carnegie we have two factors 
i which may be expected to do much 
j for the elevation of the tastes, thej enjoyment and the ideals of the peoj pie of this community and of the na; tion; the Library, Museum and Gali leries, and our College of Fine Arts, 
i The College of Fine Arts is an especI ially unique organization, embracing;
! as it does professional instruction in 
! all of the principal fine artsarchiI tecture, painting, sculpture, musicand the dramaas well as in some 
of the minor arts. So far as we 
know, it is the only school in America 
devoted to instruction of professional 
artists in all of these fields. Its fame 
not so extended as it will beIs. 
yet beginning to be widespread. Itsinfluence has already been strongly 
felt, not only in this community but 
in many others. It may be doubted' 
whether the - people of our commun
ity appreciate its value and distincI tion.
It is a hopeful sign of appreciation 
I of the kind I have indicated, that the 
i editors of the Carnegie Tartan have j considered it desirable to devote 
| space in their columns to spreading 
i knowledge of the work of the College 
I of Fine Arts. A hope that the infor| mation published may lodge in many* 
a quarter where it will produce good 
results; that perhaps it may inspire 
men and women of influence and re
sources to assist in the development 
of the work of the College; that per
haps it may inspire some young menand women of latent genius with the 
j understanding that the accumulationof fortunes and of other forms of 
i physical prosperity is less notable, 
worthy and desirable than fine ac
complishments in the world of the 
arts.
(Note:Brief description of the 
work of several departments of the 
College of Fine Arts are to follow 
in later issues.)
le, Curry Crum, J. O. Hanson, and 
John Bauerle. .
The present members hope that 
the others who are elegible will feel 
sufficiently interested in the move
ment to be present at' the coming 
meeting.
SINE NOMINE ANNUAL
PARTY HELD SAT. EVE.
The Sine Nomine Club held their 
annual Washingtons Birthday party 
in 'the Ruslcin Apartments on Satur
day evening, February 21.
The members and their friends be
gan to arrive before 7:00 oclock and 
by 7:30 the banquet had started, 
even though a couple of the crowd 
had not as yet been accounted for.
A delectable dinner was efficiently 
served by the management of the 
Apartments. Following the dinner 
an adjoining room was appropriated 
and the dance was on to the tunes 
of the Yankee Six.
One feature of the program which 
added to the zest of the affair was 
the absence of an after dinner speak
er which usually, goes witha dinner 
dance.
The only speeches given were 
made by President Weidell and his 
recently wedded wife upon the ac
ceptance of a -wedding present given 
by the club.
Card games were started and those 
not dancing were occupied in this 
manner.
Alumni from the city and out of 
town were present and seemed glad 
to get back with the students again.
Although the crowd was small, a 
very enjoyable time -was had and the 
party broke up near midnight with 
many thanks to the social chairman, 
R. L. Coulter, and his committee for 
their carefully planned and detailed 
precision in carrying out the pro
gram.
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG 
M. PASQUINELLI
Mary: . Is Johnny courting you? 
Marie: Not exactly, but he is geting there step by step. When he 
first called on me he sat all evening 
with the album on his lap. Next time 
he sat with my dog in his lap. Then 
he took my little brother in his lap. 
And next Sunday night is my turn.
Ex.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Stop at Hage Beauty Shoppe 
Expert Work Quick Serviec 
THREE OPERATORS 
Ladies and Gentlemen's 
Manicuring a Specialty.
418 CRAIG STREET 
Schenley 6196-R
T^VERY eollej man wants his 
moneys worththat is why 
John Wards eollej_ sales gro 
year by year.
Value?---Tremendus! Stvic?  
Up-to-the-minute! Quality? 
the best of everything goes into 
John Ward footwear.
On Display By
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
at
Skibo Inn 
Friday, February 27th
20jSkiboIikVei\s-bl\oesINCORPORATED r> RUG. U.S. PAT. O:
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia Address for Mail Orders, 191 Hudson 1, New York City
'PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drag Store
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fellovia meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dissert.
FORCES ABOVE CRAIG
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
