April 19, 1977 VoHime77, Number 23 CarnegieMellon University Pittrtwrgh^Pgnnsytvanw 15213
"Cheati ng"Defi ned
by Elliot Ohlbarg
Next years student handbook will see a 
new University rule on cheating and plagia
rism. Tlie need for siicli a rule became evjdem when it was discovered that a clear 
statement of University policy on this issue 
did not exist. The discovery was prompted 
^,by a case brought before the University 
^-..Disciplinary Committee.
.. The case involved a student who was 
accused by his professor of cheating, and
Computer Loses 
Chess Match
by.JoMpti Prrtpdli
In August of 1968, David Levy, a Scot5fc lish cliess master, bet that no computer 
program developed within the next ten 
years would be able to beat him iri a game 
of chess. On Friday, April 1, Levy de
feated the CYBER 176 computer in 42 
moves, proving that, so far, at least, lie is 
winning the bet.
Levy made the bet with Professor 
js Donald Michie, a computer scientist from 
the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, and 
three other computer scientists. Michie is 
a visiting professor al CMU this semester, 
and invited Levy to test his bet against 
CHESS 4.5,. a program written by David 
Slate and Larry Atkin; CHESS 4.5 has 
won several of the Annual Computer Chess 
Championships, and is considered by some 
to be the best cliess program written, 
ji Recent changes in the program and the use 
of the fast-sr Conlrol Next CYWPR '76 
computer have vastly improved the original 
program, and have earned it sis Expert, 
rating, which is close to Levys Master
The machine has great advantages over 
a human in speed, accuracy, and absolute 
. concentration. 'Hie computer stores about 
' 5,600 different positions for tlie opening 
game, which is played from memory. (A 
chess game is divided into three parts, each 
part requiring different strategy: the open
ing game, the middle game, ami the end 
Game.) in the middle game, (he computer 
is usually a level 3 player, which means 1 
that it can sec eight moves ahead, Bccause 
there are about 30 moves available on cadi 
^ turn, the computer examines 30^ different 
* branches before making its move. At limes, 
the computer can p.o deeper than tlie 
eighth level.
Levy s strategy was to - keep tlie poswas subsequently failed. Believing he was 
unfairly accused, the student appealed to 
the Disciplinary Committee. The .Commit
tee upheld-the professors decision, even 
though University policy on healing was 
vague at that time.
The Administration then requested that 
the Faculty Senate Student Affairs Com
mittee draft a cleariy-defincd policy on 
chcating.and plagiarism, the policy, which 
met with no disapproval from Student 
Senate, was recently passed by the Faculty 
Senate.
The new rule does two things: it dourly 
defines what constitutes cheating, and 
states that .in aceuscd student has the right . 
to request that the charge be heard before 
the University Disciplinary Committee. 
Following L> the complete text of the new
Uniwtlry RuloonChMtHtg end Plagiarism
Students at Carncgic-MellonUniversity 
arc engaged in preparation for professional 
activity of the highest standards. Each 
profession constrains its members with 
both ethical responsibilities and disciplin
ary limits. To assure the validity of the
*  j-*  j Continuad on paga 10Art Gallery Loses Funds
by David C. Apr il1
Forbes Street Student Gallery is being 
forced to consider major chances, because 
of a cut in University compensations for 
Gallery workers! Gallery Director Cynthia 
Fercncc explained tliat the tuition scholar
ships that support gallery members v/ill be 
discontinued after next year.
The Gallery is not disputing the Univer
sitys  decision to discontinue the scholar
ships for both the director and two assist
ant directors, but its members arc actively 
searching for ways to maintain the Gallery 
without these funds.
No one is sure how lire Gallery will 
clmga ur v/liat will happen, aaid Cindy. 
Two liocsible ways to make money are 
ait rentals or a fniming.scivice. Maybe it 
will roLally be changed around. Hut 
another type of compensation must be 
made to get involvement. Gallery members 
spend fifteen to twenty hours a week 
working, and they cannot afford 1o do so 
%vitnoul some soil of compensation.'
A committee wiUr representatives iron
Wt -V<->
--wwnPh rr: t*wr
Robert R*, had of Biology OeportmmtBiology~ 07
by Gary R. Fabian
A number of curriculum changes have 
been confirmed in the Department of 
Biological Sciences. The major change is 
the establishment of two tracks leading 
to a B.S. in Biology. According to Dr. 
William S. Kelley, of the Biological 
.Scienccs Department, the need for revision 
,was emphasized by the crunch exper
ienced by the sophomore Dio-majors. !n 
the past, they were required to carry 
Physics HI, Calculus lit, Experimental 
Techniques in Chemistry I, Genetics, and 
Organic Chemistry 1 in the same semester. 
Now, Kelley said, as a result of iv-n 
track system this will no longer be necesThc two tracks wliich were proposed to 
and accepted by the College Council arc 
the Biochemistry/Biophysics Track and the 
Molecular/Cellular Biology Track. ' In 
addition to the core courses required ior 
ail Dio-majors, requirements for the 13iochemistry/BIopltysics Track arc: Physical 
Biochemistry, Physics HI (explained be
low), and introduction to Biophysics.
Spirit Results
liy l3l!!ot OlilbtrQ
The deletion of new officers for Spirit 
was completed right before Spring Break. 
Barney Wilson, Kwasi J.isrisah, Mike 
Herron, and Dale Austin were clected 
Coordinator, Co-coordinator, Treasurer, 
and Secretary, respectively. Ali four are 
presently freshmen. They will |yj making 
the plans and decisions for Spirit next year, 
along wills yet-ta-be-clcclcd representatives 
from each class, and an administrative
Leslie Cox, now ex-Coordinator, said 
voter turnout v;as good. One hundred 
thirty-four ballots were counted, even 
though only 132 people noted. Tins 
inconsistency nere.i'ilatcd a Kicoiui 
election for Co-coordinator, imc outer 
races were not decided ov n::;s man unco 
votes.) Cox said that me mcoosistencv 
v/ss probably caused i>v iwo Mimcms 
forgeUifig to sign the
The new officers took omce on aiuh .
next Fall, including :> utiicai ni ,-seven 
Spdnj^s, and a Graduate rtcnnoi uav. wnen 
rad schools will be rrivncil to Present 
what their schoul has so one/ to grau 
sch.col-mii/dcd students. Barney Wilson and 
several Spirit members will ho 'asking
Changes
Required courses for the Molecular/Cell
ular Biology Track arc Developmental 
Biology, and Virology.
A majorchange in both curricula is the 
delay of Calculus III for all Blo-majorc, and 
the instituting of a Physics III eoursc which 
will not have a Calculus HI prerequisite: 
Calculus III, taken in tire sophmorc year 
by all other MIS students, will be taken in 
the junior year.' Tire program will lead to 
a B.S. in Biology; a B.A. will no longer be
news
Spring Carnival Prcview:-*Get out those 
belly dancing costumes, practice those hogcalls, and dust off your tubas and tap 
shoes." (page 6)
lot food in SkiboThe Kiltie Cafe in 
Skibo will be renovated over this summer 
in order to provide hotter food and sent 
more people, (page 7)
Ceiling Caves In'Hie ceiling of the Mudge 
Graduate House kitchcn cainc crashing 
down, ten feet from Head Resident Dr. 
Bob Morgan,-last week, (page 7)
rate
Theatre hxpross Continues to Grow 
Theatre Express returns to 1-ittsbursii 
April 17 - May ey (page I?)
The Lite Show"Man meets woman, mail 
begins to begrudgingly tolerate woman, 
man admits love to woman. . .to-live 
a me oi eiernai happiness,."(ua^c 15)
ionsThe little green 
r Hollow predicts bug
ger 24)

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The Standard Tool
When McLuhon predicted the slow death of the age of 
Gutenberg more than a decade ago, he theorized that the ever, 
more rapid exchange of Information permitted by oh ad
vanced commtfhications technology would bring about, the 
obsolescence of the whiten word. He predicted a change In 
the nature of the communique; but as the shift from verbaI 
to visual form, end thus content, occurred, he assumed that a 
baste need for communication would continue. And it 
does. But In these 1970's we have hot yet arrived at this hell 
or Utopia. We are evolving, but unevenly; a gap has deve
loped between expectation and achievement. We are accus
tomed to instant gratification of many needs and desires by 
sophisticated servomechanisms, but as yet wp possess few 
aids capable of satisfying other less physical wants with 
minima! effort.. One of these is for the exchange of informa
tion, particularly difficult for those who are pot professional 
communicators.
The headline across, taken from a recent letter, demonstrata one student's problem and his awareness of its super
ficial aspects.  He admits that he cannot spell; it is obvious 
that he Is uncomfortable with standard sentence structure 
and is frustrated by his effort to compose so that he does 
not attempt to complete it through correction. But that he 
doss not fed compelled to remedy his disability, and does 
not recognize its roots, is less his fault than of those who pro
fessed to have taught him how to write. He does not possess 
the proper loots for constructing the product he wants; he Is 
hammering a nail with a sponge. The problem here is that 
as-a native speaker of English he is expected by others, and 
himself, to know how to do it Instinctively. This Is also true 
for students who are called upon to speak publicly and .are 
unable to do so.
It has been argued that a university such as CMU should 
not undertake the development and administration of reme
dial courses, and that a "writing sample" be a required 
part of the admissions procedure. But this Is discrimination 
on the basis of a highly subjective "standard tool, which a 
prospective freshman may or may not already possess, but 
which Is easily attainable. Better that a university seek stu
dents who possess qualities enabling them to continue 
learning, who are able to acquire skills as they are-needed. 
After matriculation,, they can be provided with the body of 
knowledge they need to "standardize their skills.
The question arises here of who is to determine funda
mentals and make them known. It has long been held, par
ticularly by those who are not Involved with the teaching of 
English, that deportments of English arc responsible for 
preserving the nations literacy. But is this necessarily true 
or fair? "English Is a collection of disciplines whose com
mon denominator Is that their medium is language. Techni
cal writing, creative writing, journalism, ad composition, 
literature, the writing of plays and the teaching of all of the 
above: all arc professions in their own right, for which
facility with words is obviously a basic requirement. But less 
apparent is that other professions, dealing in other "materi
als", also need these basic understandings and skills. When 
the fundamentals of two diverse groups are identical, why 
should one serve the needs of the other? And when the 
refinement of these skills to better serve a field of study 
requires the toucher to have a familiarity with that field, 
is not someone currently involved with that field In the best 
position to develop it? For as jargon to one group is a neces
sary part of the language to another, "standard"methods of 
presentation in one urea may be totally unacceptable to 
another.
A program similar to, or an extension of, the Communi
cations Skills Center, but on a larger scale and mandatory 
for many, if not all, students would standardize the know-' 
ledge, if not the aptitude and talent, possessed by all stu
dents shortly after their entering the university. Scheduling 
conflicts could be. avoided by either an independent study/ 
tutorial format or by scheduling classes throughout the day, 
at the same fevef> so that students could attend any time 
their schedules permitted them to do so. Beyond this intro
ductory course, each department would develop one more 
protocol specific to their area of concentration. These could 
be arranged within the department to avoid conflicts with 
other courscs in the major field. Grading could be pass/fail,
simplistic solution? Perhaps. And a required course with, 
no immediately obvious relation to major study will not be 
greeted enthusiastically by many. But this is one solution of 
mcny that should and must be considered. We can no 
longer simply hlcme the high schools, thereby burying 
responsibility. We have a problem that can only worsen with
Letters
Edilor:
This University nol infrequent
ly makes .unsubstantiated claims 
about Its rating. A look at the 
rccent latingr. in New Engineer 
might bo an eye-opener for C1T 
departments. Even though that 
rating is not above criticism, yet 
it may bs some indication, it 
might even seem insulting to 
sonic of the top administrators to 
compare CMU with U. of Pitts
burgh, but that is exactly what I 
am going to do and prove indirect* 
ly that CMU rates lower. A grad
uate student tcaclier, whether In 
formal classcs or in private tution 
earns SS to 10 per hour at Pitt. 
The student employment corpora
tion at CMU contracts for SS per 
hour for private lotion. If the 
standard is higher at CMU, how 
csmc its students get lower rales 
for the same kind of private tu
tion? That is nol all; I gave niy 
name to the corporation over 
V/i months back, yet nobody has 
contacted me. Thu shows that 
there is not too much demand for
CMU tutors, yet on the other 
land, there are not enough tutors 
at Pitt to meet the demand. A 
friend of mine keeps rejecting too 
many offers and recently I taught 
a student of his nt SIG per hour. 
A "Proctor" oven in senior SPL 
course earns 53 per hour at CMU. 
There is no compensation for pre
paring lor such an advance course 
which invariably is required. One 
explanation given for this ridicu
lously low rate was that it is a 
token payment. I wonder how 
many proctors leach SPL Cyunes 
for gaining experience in teaching. 
To my knowledge, most do it for 
the money, and that is meagre 
money. If paying SS-10 per hour 
makes SPL too expensive and if 
students do not prefer SPL to the, 
lecture format, scrap the SPL. Let 
me site another indirect evidence 
of our bloated rating. Students 
v/ere required to pay some money 
tc get the. privilege ef being listed 
in the summer employment direc
tory at CMU. *Time reported 
about three years a;;o ihat Har
vard Business School chaises cor
porations S7S for (lie directory
of its graduating class. I wonder if 
any. department can ask for any 
money from the corporations for -~
its class at CMU.
Underpaid'1
TOO MUCH CHATTER -
Editor: Jj
That the Lettcn section of *
this paper provide an outlet for 
student discourse is obvious, but 
to publish the preponderance ot 
inanities Uic many prattlers and 
bigots dutifully submit demons
trates an inept and/or irrespon>
aiblc editorial staff. By failure to t 
impose discernible standards, the 
editors' encourage every menyandrcw who.his
name-in-Jincs, and so malign nol 
only die Integrity of the paper, 
but of the campus community as 
well. I do not proposi to elimi
nate vacuous writing, but omeliatically recommend that the edi
tors discourage its proliferation by 
excluding it from publication. 
There exists a multitude of topics 
of infinitely greater social value 
than those generally chosen, and I

---------------------------------------------------

_____________ VIEWSPresident Cyert at Student Senate
warned that students must weigh There were a number of que>- 
, ... - eicuawriven to them. He advised1 tlons concerning houiing and the
 1 .0 tht atudtntt nol setUecomplv lack, theteof. Pitsidtnt Cyertaim for higher qu ity. Cye infof {he exguje at there admitted that no research , had
tends to concentrate on those are , money. There never is. been done on what would happen 
Cyert sdid; w. must work around ihir r.t yiar, when  wSfefurther ^Improved, though lit cm^ students with not be leasing 1(4 floors from
ptoiied that there were presently com , ^ lQ ^ Webster H.U . and the new dorm
no plans to eliminate any other might not be enough to solve the
prognms. Hed like to see some The second question was from pnMm. but he said that re, tit. TAK1AN, ano posstudents concern. over crowded <*> Art student, a friend of se.rcheB have been studying
r, and the President was noticedormitories and classes. He hopes V V/5 the P"50" ',ho kei finl *' mt P,n..........V. ... j...___I... mg. Saying that, most of the 1,=, the future. After the I
By Srnry 64*gt
President Cyert attended this 
past Thursdays Student Senate 
meeting, In order to talk to stu
dents personally and answer any 
questions they might have about 
CMU.
schools, with quality comparable 
- to CMU. end claimed that our 
tuition has gone up 10% financial 
aid for the same time period.has 
increased about 30%. CMU is 
tryrng to .get an. increase in ju 
endowment, and is looking for
Less than 15 students showed other possible sources of money 
-up. The meeting had been publicotmrowdin
ized through Campus Calendar, President Cyert acknowledged 
WRCT, the TRTAN, and pen* students concern. over crowded
ably surprised at the poor turn* that a new donnitory will improve
oui. David Roussos, Senate Omrthe situation in time Tor the I978-
petson, introduosd the President. 79 acaiemic year. Though the fe poor Klclline  50mc (.,la.
who said, lm glad to be here, dorm has yet to be apprpyed by . tiveIy few) areas theseIm surprised we dont have a lar
ger attendance.' He continued to 
say that he would like to .have 
such meetings once; every semes. he could get
,tl. , question.-She wanted. to know the future. After the baby boomteaching at.CMU is esthw good01. *hlt <;yert wa* the Wtoms out, CMU may be in the
very good, he admitted , that there correct number 0f students in a opposite situation it finds itself in
class, and how many classes a. nowwe may have a surplus of 
teacher should teach in a semes* housing.th Trustees, lie is confident that 
they will support the plan at their 
meeting in May.
The President announced, a
volved with Student Senate and ^"^tparS^c^y -ES would. be made Into ^ivh,  ,*ii,hk ay Tu >, i . they and four psychologists who . strong liberal arts college; that the
 ** r T  iii-'leamtag theory In response to a question about En*J&h. and History departmentsBefore queatonsirom tji overcrowding in CFA. Cyert IC' discussed leaching techniques, lie announced increase In parking would be strengthened. A Social
Srfh,'^ ,eI1^re !,.eaC e -The psychologisb. all from CMU, rat., the Pr.sld.nt plained that sdence aepzrtment Is Magbnefly about tuition, overcrowdment has a voice in the admission ___!..__________CMU nresenUv has low rales, and
r. He answered that the standard . In response to a question about
_une load for a teacher is four artas ^lc President intends
io are; unanimously recognized dasses pet Mrae,ter,ind that there to strengthen, and whal areas he
being , good teachers wore is n0 ^t nurab f^enls for plans to let sUde, he replied that
Ing, the $100 million fund-raising proccss, and although he admittede Herbert Simon, John Hayesi CMU presently has low rates, and cwated: he has already made
David Klahr, and Robert Sicgler. 3,1 Crease is not unjustified, monetary commitments to a per-ah S ?MU the departments may feel ,adilioi.:lhere were Ulree ob.. There are two ways available to s0 l0 d(velop such a depart.
long range goals of CM . pressure from above, overcrowdto ewIlJlle ^ workshop. ^ .with the increaseddemand ment. CFA will continue to
<*r ^ n_ _ ; . r fng j no s?mc .j11!?. a.* ? If deemed Interesting and success^or Peking spaces: parking prices rccejye strong support. CyertIm a strong proponent of forced on them.' The Art and , . , . .,.. .. i,eincreased or nnrVino . , . .. .. .  ^ . . r ful, the workshop will be repeated 0311 uc ulcrca5ea' .png mtcnds to strengthen the engrnZ^nZ and expanded io Include other n be. distributed by a C(Srlng labs for8undcrgn1duates:er s u en s nex year an cy teac^ers from ^hc University, rationing system. This latter graduate labs are already in fairly
President Cyert concluded by 'wou^ probably squeeze students g0cd condition because they
r i vcrr min m annipncc /- mr^mn  saying that we are In the age of out. An attempt has been made to receive direct.support from indusIn! for Z m7 78 '1 j if n"' i  f ,he undergraduate. He believes 8" to,a flrst-come, ficst-served Tht Biology department will Increase for the 1977-78 dollars the University Is aumng for. ,ku, ______basis, but there  problems with . be improved, and In 2-3 years,
keep tuition constant in the facc had this past year, 
of an. inflationary .economy." Fund-rdting
President Cyert told the audience 56 million of the 100 million
school year was announced in in its fund-raising drive lias been
July of 1976; we are the only pledged. Although about 34 miluniversity in the countjy to . lion has been pledged by an 
announce tuition hikes over a year anonymous bencfactor, and won't
in advance. The Tuition Commitbe received until after his death
tc: is p:c::ntly IccJcir* Ir.tc I?7CCyvu wiiouiiccd that (lie drive is
79 costs, and will report in.-May. going well.-Gulf and U.S.Steel reThu Picsidcnt tilted otl\er cently pledged $2 million each.
that, ultimately, it'will be......
that th univerisities which survive thi6method'
more Letters
believe a dkcruninating editorial 3) After several dlscussi 
policy would inspire creative diswith Mr. Roussos an equitable and
A .graduate student who taught 
technical writing to engineers was 
blems of the Vndcrgraduate. Pres""> 0, students Inability tc v/ritc * 'iu he Liiat n
specific couse In the English de
partment be geared towards the 
engineer. President Cyert counter
ed by saying that Freshman Writcussion within such
The new board of editors has 
pledged chances in format, style 
and content. > .to provide.. mate
constitutionally sound method of
4) Mr.
t to file an appeal petition (1 
relevant, enlightening and helpful quiring 50 commuter signatures 0ftcn 
I trust tliis statement calling for a referendum on Hi 
improvement In the qualielection).
A possible explanation f<
David Roussos not appeaiing the iiow.'poo'riytliouiiCCCP election is that since he is 
now Chairman of Student Senate 
and Managing Editor of the 
TARTAN he would be unible. to 
icrvn as CCCI* president due lo 
'.ime limitations. Criticism of the 
CCCP should be bused upon f.iie 
facts and r.ot upon hearsay evi
dence from unknown sources.
Gcoipc Rsclincr 
Former Presideni CCCP .
ty of future Lttei 
sitgjjest appropriating (he s^ace to 
a less wasteful undertaking.
Eric Keller
Cyert envisions that the Mailt 
department be on par with the 
Math department at MIT. There 
are no plans that GSIA receive 
any special attention, but any-' 
thing can happen...
A student wondered wlieihcr llis 
engineer. President Cyert counterHewlett Gallery would be im-It is nol difficult a.king Prcsled by saying that Freshman Writproved - lie wiU be having a show
dent Cyert a i'1*- R?Uie'11 ing is supposed lo teach basic lhcre ext year. Cyert aid thereis aifficult to get the President to writlng 5kalSi anfl if a Jtudl,nt ^ monty s|a(cd ^ Jo
ansv/er the question that v/as just needed more help, he or she ,ion (Though presumably not beasked. But this isnt his fault. He should go to the Communications cauSc of this one students upis an intelligent man, a cautious Skills Center, which was specificconijne show.)
man. Vague questions must first ally set up for such a purpose. The Tc a question regarding the
be clarified before they can be a graduate student persisted,.saying recent Health Department inspcc*
then decidcd answered, and students, hotthat there was such a latge num(jons 0f the University cafeterias,
blooded youtlis that we arc, art beT of students who need help President Cyert answered that the
fond of asking questions that a new course would not be violations were not major; the
lat hint of mismanagement,' inappropriate; at this point, Dean seriousness of the situation had 
long-doing, and scandal, but Swank stepped in and said that a been exaggerated.
the final evaluation, . university must meet ccrtain acar student complained about the
ic standards, and.crcdlt can 
he given for learning a skill 
should have been learned in 
udary school. Perhaps the 
-or involves tougher entrance
igue. Be that ns it may, v 
procecd to the discussion 
of the Student Senate meetlack of study space in Engin
eering and Science Library; Presi
dent Cycit agreed. He said that it 
was constructed poorly, and he 
would see what could be done to
As fonucrpresident ol'Camegi.c 
Commuter Council of Pittsburgh 
(CCCP) I must take offense at two 
recent TARTAN articles concer
ning CCCP elections. These ar
ticles based totally on hearsaythe
(thedidnt
me of publia 
' for suI)nu'i{oii of 
c the courage 
names) misrepresent the facts. 
The TARTAN in its infinite wis
dom diOMO hoi 10 iisk me whether 
or not an appeal petition had been 
filed. The facts are as follows: 
i) An election for CCCP of
ficers v/as held on March 9 anil 10
; though 
s, "after several 
er/iod of appeal for data 
?  AUt'AN ccJh avnilabli
The first question < 
senior Art student. She was con
cerned over a number of things; 
diat CMU had no Art History 
program to speak of, that studio 
space was cramped, that the Art 
faculty was too small and over
worked, and that there was no 
money available for hiring addi
tional instruclois. lecture course.
In reply, the President asked agreed Uvu this
junt of money violation of his request, and lh:t department. >1C wouu sco wiial |.c could j
e the situ:
One student complained that The President spoke for a i< 
two or three yean ago, the of about I */d hours. The questi
President had decrccd that no were interesting, the answers,
classcs should he held fi 
4:30-6:00, so students svculd Ji 
the opportunity, if so desired 
participate in sports. But chon
ital
i 'doped in a highly 
change saying that students must 
bo careful about throwing around 
words. later, the President admit
ted that he may have been too 
harsh on the questioner, bui
A student complained that there 
were no campus phones in the 
Fine Aris building. Cyert answer
ed that there were no campus 
phones in any. of the academic 
buildings. This is falseDean
lightening. The students were 
entertaining, and the President 
was revealing. A good lime was 
had by all. Perhaps the next Senan archiate meeting lo which the PrcsiPrcsidcnl dent is invited will be attended by .
more students. I hope so. Our
which arc for our own benefit and 
enlightenment, can be taken to 
mean that wc arc uninterested in 
CMU. Our poor attendance c:in be 
cjted by the President (and other 
University officials) as reason
, rather
thatoccasionally Swank and students explained thestilaci
 by faculty members. He.
. It

---------------------------------------------------

DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESOAYI
CtmlfM riu: #1.00 for v*ry'15sudy 
A/munMMnii m prifivd FflEE.
SPRING CARNIVAL SCHEDULE
THURSDAY 
12:00 Sweepstakes Design Judging 
5:00 Midway opens
Showmobile TG The Family of Eve 
3:00 SDC Squere Dance in the Tent 
e:30 Scotch and Soda "Something .
Feudal" in Skibo Ballroom 
10:00 Fireworks above Ihe Stuodium 
12:00 Midway Close;
FRIDAY
9:00 Sweepstakes Preliminary Races 
12:00 Arts and CraflsFriStiva! o.wns . 
SDC picnic in the Tent 
Kile flying in the IM Field 
1:00 Midway opens 
2:00 Relays on the IM Field 
2:30 Firsbee on the Cut 
6:00 Ai Is and Crafts Festival closes 
0:00 AU Conccrt in the Gym 
Joan Anriatrading and 
l3urc Prairie League 
Scotch find Soda "Something 
Feudal'' in Skibo Ballroom 
Midway closos
8:30
12:00
SATURDAY 
9:00 Swcepstukos Final Hares 
12:C0 Arts and Crafts Festival opens 
1:00 Midway opens
Tug of War/Plankjwst on the Lawn 
accross from Midway 
1:30 SDC Gong Show in the Tent 
2:30 Waicrbolloon/Gaiorching on the 
Cut
6 00 Arts and Crafts Festival doses 
8:30 Scotch and Soda "Something
10:00 Midway closes
Awards Cnrrjmony in ihe Gym 
10 30 SDC Daria: in tho Tnnl 
Spring Cnrnival T-Shirts arc bning sold at
during Carnival, Tlvj supply is lirniit;d so 
if you wont on they nro S2.50 each. 
IT'S SPRING CARNIVAL TIME AGAIN 
A reminder to all Skibo Ana 5 and (> per
mit holders ihnt Spring CArnival has ar
rived  April 21 - 23. .
OnTuesday, Apri! 10 at 5:00 p.m. a 
portion of Area 6 will be dosed off lor the 
construction of ihe SDC tent. Wo li.ivu ob
tained permission from the City to park on 
hoth sidt's of Forbes Ave, from Beeler St. 
to the Skibo and Fraternity entrances. 
Please moke use of this availability.
Do not block the bus slops or firo hy
drants. Limited parking will al: foe availa
ble in More-wood. (Permit holders only, 
during business hours) All individuals who 
on come to campus without their c-rs aro 
requested to do so for this brief period. 
Generation for Generation will be this 
week's film in the Ascent of Man cortes. 
Tho frlms arc? presented ovary Tuesday si 
11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherrett Room, 
iikibo. 9fino your lunch and join us. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning, 
The recond and last spring Sleeping Bsg 
Campaign wi take placo on April 24 and 
Last wjokV. campaign y.-as successful 
dud I hop enjoyable to .-?jl who partici
pated. If you'; interesting in hosting a 
.student, or attending any of tho campaisin's 
events, get in touch with ihe Admissions 
Ofiii:<^. All your help will Lv: appreciated.
Mod.??Lanfiu;ges SAC is sponsoring an, 
.ioiv.l Party. Wpdsijy, April 20 
10 pm in thi: V.'di:!i Lcunje. It is
The custodians have been directed'to. remove all posters and announcements that 
are not placed in appropriate poster areas,
To save yourselves posters, money and1 
time we will appreciate your assistance in 
adhering to the posting regulations. --
The designated poster areas in Skibo are 
' as lollows:
1. AU carpeted gray matter in th
2. Carpeted kiosks in the Tartan Grill.
3. Wood areas to tho right arid left Of 
the info Dusk. '
<1. Wood area next lo Entropy.
5. White wall area to.left of parking 
lot entrance.
If you have any suggestions about 
potential areas to be designated as autho
rized posting areas, please let the Depan
men t of Student Activits at 103 Skibo
POST-COLLEGE SURVIVAL. Insurance 
Ins and Outs is the topic of this week's 
lecture and discussion, one of SAR'C's 
Financial Planning Seminars. The program 
begins at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Hunt 
Library multi-purpose room (entrance' on 
Frew St.). Refreshments will be served. 
Free and open to the campus community.
Carncgie-Mellon' University's.music depart
ment will present a concert by the CMU 
Orchestra and the combined university and 
Cameron choirs at 8 p.m. Tuesday. April
10 at the East Liberty Presbyterian'Church
The program will feature Stravinsky's 
"Symphony of Psalms" and Haydn's "Nel
son Mess," with the composer's original 
orchestration of strings, three trumpets, 
timpani and organ. Conductor for both 
works will be Mix Peterson, assistant prof. 
of musk at CMU.
Soloists for Hoydns Nelson Mass" will 
be sopranos Judith  Robb Jenkins' and 
Sharon Junkon, mezzo-soprano Phyllis 
Kuboy, tenor Martin Doner, and bass. 
Michael Wieser.
The East Libert Presbyterian Church is 
located at 116 S. Highland Avenue. The 
conccrt is free and' open to the public:
The best place in Pittsburgh lo find picces 
of foam rubber/wood scraps, leather cut
outs, circles of formica, tubes from paper 
rolls  plus bits and pieces of wide array of 
discarded materials  is at the Creative Re
cycling Conter (CRC), 4(514 Liberty Ave., 
Bloomfield.
Change of timethe Alternative Coffee 
Mouse will be open 8 pm to 12:30 am on 
April 22. 4515 Fo'bes Ave.
Interested in working on the homecoming 
committee of SARC? Leave a message ir'i 
ihe Alumni Office (Sth floor, Warner Hall) 
for Sue Case. Please include name, address, 
ond phone number.
ohn P. Crecine. Dean of the College of 
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Mcdic3l Ethics and the Law. April 20, 
1977, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Auditorium, 
David Lawrence Hail, University of Pitts
burgh. Forbes Avenue, Piilsburvih. PA. 
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh 
Graduate School of Public Health (GSPH), 
member, University Health Center of Pitts
burgh And the Western Pennsylvania Public 
Health Council (WPPHC). This fifteenth 
annual seminar is funded in pjirt by the 
Maurice Falk Medical Fund. Discussion and 
debate topics include human exorjrinicni.-)- 
itoo: mental health and thi law, arid pa
tients' riehrs and professional respORiibilitier.. There is a S3 lecjistration fee, Advance 
registration is suggested. This, program 
meats the criteria for si* hours of credit as 
approved by th<; Pennsylvania Suite Hoard
' of Examiners of Nursing Home Administra-..
This also meets the criteria.for six 
credit hours in Category 1 ol the Physi
cians Recognition Award of the Ameri
can Medical Association.
;Ther seminar 'Open' to interested profssionals as welj as. the general public.
Contact:' MSrc Hiiler. .GSPH,. L.ohg . Term . 
Care Education Unit, A630 Crabtree Hstl. 
University ' of Pittsburgh,' Pittsburgh, FA 
15260,412/624-3126.
On April 22nd & 23rd, .the M.l.T Black 
Students' Conference on Science & Tech
nology will hold's conference on "Econo. mic Development in a .Technological  
Society."-. Th major, emphasis of the con
ference will be on the application of pro
fessional skills to provide a technical and 
 political base from which to address the 
problems -of economic development here 
and abroad. Information and illustra-: 
lions of such appljcations-will be provided 
.by professionals in the academic; public, 
and private sectors. The conference is to' 
provide every-studont with a conceptual 
framework through which they can exam-, 
ine the relationship between their chosenfields and the needs and problems of their 
community.
For further information about the con
ference. please contact Michael Alston; 
682-8376.
scholarships awardsprizes
classified
Sublet: Oakland Town House; Furnished, 3 
Bed Rooms, Study room. Kitchen, Living 
room 'and 2 bathrooms, AC/WW carpeting, 
Basement. Fits five comfortably. Willing 
to bargain. Call 687-6568 anytime.
Housemate needed to live in cooprative 
house in Point Breeze beginning May or 
June through August. 362-1640.
WANTED: Non-smokinn summer house
mates for VI -room Beeler Street palace 3 
minutes from campus. 693-1963.
Buy furniture 3-rm. apt. anj secure load 
to beautiful apt. Shsdyside. Phone 
441-6232,0:30-0 am.
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for 
future jobs-PICA. ELITE, SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary, 731 -0584
Typing -CC Theses, Dissections, term 
papers, etc. Ask about free copying service. 
Call Janice 421-6483
Babysitter for Fall ramester. 10-4 M-T Th 
P. 1 boy (one year), call 682-9670. Price 
negotiable.
Excellent opportunities fov college, studsnis to Qualify as stoefc-broker or real 
t-s-imo salesperson-arid to earn income 
while, intending collegia. Financial Estaio 
Institute is offering evening dasses to 
qualify as stoefc-brosor (S240.00 Tuition) 
and Saturday classes to qualify os real 
est-iie salesperson ($150.00 Tuition).
-For Sate - 1975 FIAT 128 Wagon - Excell
ent/condition.. Just tuned. '13.000 miles ,
9 Radial tires,. AM/FM Radio,. Number 1^* 
Inspection; 4 speed,.Zrebarted; Red'w/ tan 
.. interior, ;.Font_.wHell . drive.-Must '.sell. 
$2,200. Ml. Washington, 481-5459
. Tennis Instructors, head pro, assistant pro, 
and camp,, positions. Good playing and 
teaching backgrounds, good income and 
interesting work; locations in eight states;^
' call' (301) 6&4-3770, Robert Reade. f.
Europe via PanAm 707 for Less than 'A 
economy fare. Call toll free (69 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
60-day advance payment, required.' UniTravel Charters.
Bronica.2% SLR, Body, 3 interchangable 
film backs. 50MM, 75MM, 135MM'lenses. 
sidsgrip,/687-4724 evenings.
Self-Hypnosis Workshop, Terminate Smok
ing Clinic. Write to Mr'. TA. 5528 Raleigh 
St,. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 
Wanted: Opponents for military simulation * 
games. Waterloo,. Crimean War., Salerno, 
many others. Prize money$20 to, $50. 
Cal> 355-0713 after 6:00 PM.
All -CMU women graduates arc eligible for 
membership in the American Association  
of. University Women, which has.branches 
throughout the United States including 
five in tho Pittsburgh area.
Soniors interested in knowing more 
about the Association should contact Dean ' 
Lloyd in BH 161 who serves as CMlj's 
liason representative.
Food Day, 
April 21
Maybe even l wo or llsrso limes a day. if youro lucky.
Bui did you ever stop lo
Do you know what's in your food? The peslicides. proaorvalives. hormones, additives, end olhcr malarious fine prinf ingredients?Do you know about (lie components of your diel, like excess fat mid pui>ar, Dial con contribute fo tooth decay, obcsily, bowel concur, dktbeles mid heart disease?Do you know .why people all over Ihe world, even rlglil her in the Unilud Slotea. ere sterving?And why Ihe U.S. is providing losy food nid Ilian il did ten yoars ago?
Oil April 21 wo'regoinfllo take one day and talk about all 
tlieae ihinga. Wilh leuch-ins. rnllics. workshops, food fairs, conferences, fijuicsial meals, events. And with * special emphasln on nutrilion  tho links between diet end disnase.Feed Day. April 21. oil across Amorica.Do your body o favor.Be (hole.
Feed your mind 
She feels about food.

---------------------------------------------------

f Aaril io; ln.7 - TARTAN .?5gt5;
Week in Review
. The U.S. sharply Increased its aid for
. Zaire, bui a bid for munitions failed. En* 
route to the embattled African nation in- stead is $13 million 11 non-letluJ sup. - plies which include even a transport plane.'
The French government Is already lending 
transport planes and crews, over heavy 
. French Communist protest,, to Zaire and 
Morocco/ which has sent at leasl: 50 
troopsand planeloads of arms to. the en* 
dangered copper mining center of Kolwezl. 
Zaire is reportedly mobilizing for an offensive drive against the 3000 well equipped 
invaders who are allegedly supported-by 
Angola, Cuba, and the U.S.S.R. The Soviet 
. Union has issued denials of this allegation, 
going so far as to declare inadmissible any 
foreign intervention into the struggle, but 
China, Egypt, Sudan and Nigeria-have all 
proclaimed their readiness to aid Zaire, and 
- West Germany has' pledged S2 million in 
food and medical aid.
The Food and Drug Administration has
proposed a new plan for the regulation of 
the allegedly carcinogenic sweetener sacch
arin. While it would be banned from food, 
cosmetics, and other drugs, it would still be 
sold over the counter as a weight control 
device and for use by diabetics, the label 
would have to contain a warning that 
saccharin causes cancer in animals. Saccha
rin producers would have to prove its 
effectiveness in-six months. Donald Ken-' 
nedy, FDA'commissioner, claims that the' 
new laws would eliminate 90% of saccharin
Nationalist Rhodesian fender, Robert 
Mugabe, told British Prime Minister David 
Owen, that the Rhodesian conflict will bo 
settled only by. a 'bitter and bloody war.
Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin,
has announced'plans 10 go on vacation un
til (he May 17 elections, leaving the go
vernment in .the hands of Defence Minister 
Shimon Peres. The Attorney General of Is
rael ruled; that Rahin can not resign until 
after elections, because there is no provi
sion for a caretaker prime minister to leave 
office. Rabin tried to resign last week after 
he.was fined.$1500 for his involvmenl in a 
personal finahcial scandal. Rabin's wife : 
HM $10,000 in a bank account in the U.S., 
against Israeli law.
President Carter, while noting that lie
had shown maximum restraint In at least 
three previous infractions, ordered the U.S. 
Coast Guard to enforce the U.S.s new 200 
mile fishing restrictions: In' response, the 
Coasti Guard :seizd-fust a Russian trawlerand subsequently their Another transport' 
ship, hauling the two vessels to port in Bos
ton. The Soviet reaction (since more cita
tions have been issued against Soviet ships 
than any other country) was two-fold: 
they finalized their rejection of the latest 
U.S. arms limitation proposals, but also 
ordered Russian fishing captains who sail in 
U.S; waters to'strictly observe the Ameri
can regulations.
Spanish Communists demonstrated In 
Madrid in celebration of their partys new. 
legal status,, last held in 1939. The conser
vative Spanish military agreed to accept the 
governments decision to legalize the 
Communists, apparently ending a political 
clash, between forces of the Spanish army 
and government which incurred two resig
nations and a move to censure Premier 
Adolfo Suarez's gdvemment.-
' Israeli backed Christian rightbts and
leftist Palestinians continue to fight as a 
joint effort by Palestinian Liberation Organizalion leader,. Yasir Afafat., and the, 
Syrian government to stop fighting on the 
Lebancse-lsraeli border failed.
President Cuter outlined Latin Ameri
can policy concerns in a major adress to 
the Permanent Council of the Organization 
of American States. Surprisingly absent - 
were the sweeping pledges for economic 
aid which have characterized previous such 
statements;"rather, Carter made a point of 
avoiding being paternalistic or patronizing.'
- The President did encourage multilateral 
trade negotiations in Geneva, and promised 
that the U.S. will sign a protocol that will 
prohibit deployment of nuclear weapons 
from Latln-America (refusal of lhe U.S. to 
endorse such an accord has, in the past, 
earned the country much criticism fom its 
Southerly neighbors). The President's 
Statement also renewed Mr: Carters hu
man rights campaign, a fact which many 
Latin-American governments arc likely to 
consider quite irritating.
President Carter lias, in the interest of 
equity," commuted the 20 year maximum 
sentence'of Watergate burgler G. Gordon 
Liddy, the last, of the original Watergate 
Seven to remain in jail. Liddy was given 
the .longest sentence because lie refused to - 
testify, saying that to do so, would be 
against his code of honor. Liddy bccomes 
eligible for parole on July 7. However, he 
must stjdJ pay a 540,000 fine, unless he can 
demonstrate pauper status. The Whitehouse has said that it is unlikely, that others 
who were involved in the scandal will have 
their sentences commuted.
The government of South Afna has re
jected a proposal to iet people; of mixed 
race serve in their all white parliament.
. This .move, was made; against the liberal 
advice, of a special  commission 011 apart
heid, and maintains the South African 
policy of discrimination against blacks.
The Florida legislature has defeated
passage of the Equal Rights Amendment 
for the fifth consecutive year. The bill 
must be ratified by three, more states by 
March of 1979. However, some stales 
which have not yet ratified will not recon
vene tlicir legislatures until after the cutoff 
date.
The Stock market advanced broadJy and 
consistently last week, as the Dow Jones 
. industrial Avenge climbed 28 points with 
advances taking place every day. Volume 
was very heavy when compared to previous 
weeks, with over 30 million shares being 
traded last Thursday. This shows investors 
are beginning to enter the slock market 
again and were optimistic about Carters - 
plan to kill his own S50 tax rebate, because 
the cxonomy needs 'smaller stimulus than 
before, he claims. Good news camc from 
Ford Motor Co., as it onnounccd a five for 
four stock spilt, increased its quarterly divlidend by 25%, and organized a committee 
to find a successor to Henry Ford HI. Com
puter makers stocks were weak bccausc 
IBM announced more pricc cuts, a new 
model, and reported that first quarter earn
ings were up only 5.3%, which was below 
analysts expectations.
SUMMER JOBS 
C-MAP PRE-COLLEGE PROGRAM
- The Carnegie-Mellon Action 
Project is in the process of hiring a 
staff of teaching assistants to work 
in the pre-college program from 
July 19-August 31, 1977. Applicants 
for. positions in Phys/es or Ca/cu/us 
must have completed two years of 
college including Physics I, II, ill and 
calculus I, !l. 111 with a "B" average or 
better. For positions in Chem/sfry a 
chemiccS engineering, chemistry or 
biology major is preferred, previous 
tutoring or teaching experience is 
not necessary but helpful. Chances 
for omploymeni are exce/tenf if you 
are proficient in any two com
binations of Physics, Chemistry or 
Calculus. To apply, come to the CMap office, 410 Margaret Morrison 
Building March 30 - April 20, 1977, 
from 9-5. If you need additional in
formation, call 621*2600 extension 
631 or 632.
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
and Wendolf Dolson
Financial Columnist: Mike Davis.
Wall Street Journal courtesy of A. Rczek
EUPfUTC'
Eroopvr 
snoopy
: W ODNJUNGilON 
'NTH \NPCT \N!i L
i;\iTi\)Pr nhbok 
r^rK'^r\NQCT
wi da
W!\||v/ OLkYsJG 
i ^ KuMiVkL
1 1 r / -^5 ea

---------------------------------------------------

Pagee^TARTsWSI^riFil 19^197,7,
Spring Carnival Preview
Willi Spring Carnival only two days, 
away, anticipation is running high and 
behind-thc-sccnes preparations are going at 
brcak-ncck pace. Final touchcs arc being 
pul on booths, performers arc polishing up 
their acts, and Buggy participants .are 
psyching themselves Tor their moment.of 
triumph.
The Carnival theme is Great Novels, and 
Tor those who cant gel through the pho
netics on (he T-shirts, designed by Kathy 
Corff, this year's motto is
its a novel idea 
spring carnival 
(emu 1977)
Novels that have been transformed into 
booths include Moby Dick. Fahren
heit 451, A live in Wonderland. War of (he Worlds, and The Godfather.
Thursday at noon, Sweepstakes Design 
Judging will take place in the gym. At 
5:00. Midway will officially open, and ilic 
Showmobilc will begin this weeks TGIF 
dance, featuring The Family of F.vc. 
Booths and ride: on Midway will stay open 
until midnight; other special events 
planned for Thursday include an SDC 
Square Dance in the Tent, and fireworks.
On Friday, Buggy races start the day at
9 AM. The Arts and Crafts Festival opens 
at noon, when the SDC picnic begins in the 
Tent. In addition to rccciving free hot
dogs. Coke, and pop com. students have 
the honor of being served by such Warner 
Hall notables as Dean . Swank, Dean 
Williams, Dennis Ryan, Bill Dillon, Oscar 
Mayer, and others. The picnic will lust 
until 2 PM or until, the food runs out. 
That evening. Joan Armatrading and Pure
 Prairie League will perform in the gym.
Buggy finals will be held at 9 AM on 
Saturday. Al 1:30,. SDC will present 
The Gong Show in the Tent. There will 
be cash prizes and trophies, and the judges 
will be people from the Administration.
 Chairperson of the SDC Spring Carnival 
Committee, Amy.Boyle, says there is still 
space available for those interested in . 
performing. Get out those belly-dancing 
costumes, practice those hog calls, arid dust 
off your tuba and tap'shoes. interested 
performers should leave (heir names and 
phone numbers si the Skibo InformationDesk. In the evening, the Awards Cereittony will be held in the gym al 10:00, and 
the SDC Dance will be held in llic Tent al 
10:30. The semi-formal dance will feature 
Aura, a rock band. Free tickets will be 
available in advance at the Information 
Desk.
hi addition to these events, Scotch V 
Soda will be performing Something 
Feudal in Skibo Balhoonr every evening 
of Carnival, and there will be continuous, 
live music on the Showmobilc. When this 
article went to press, a mime show In the
Tent, starring Jewel Walker, had been all 
but confirmed. The time of this event.ls 
unknown. Because the JM. field -will be 
newly-seeded, events scheduled.there havebeen rescheduled elsewhere. On Friday, 
Kite-flying, Relays, and Frisbee will all be 
on the cut. On Saturday, Gazorching will 
be held on the cut,- and Tug-of-War and 
PJankjoust will be held on the lawn of 
Doherty House, on Forbes Avenue. It is 
not yet known where' the Fireworks Show
will be Iveld. - .............
The movie schedule listed in the Spring 
Carnival brochure is incorrect. Thursday 
nights movie will be One Flew Over the 
Cuckoo's Nest, and Friday nights movie 
will be the AnUnatldn Festival A Dueta-Thon, providing 60 continuous hours of 
ducts, will be going on near the Fine Arts 
buiiditlg. Performer; will be'members of 
the Music department, mostly trumpet 
players, who have volunteered their time. 
All nioncy raised fro/n the Duet-a-Thon
. Carnival T-shirts, now selling in Entropy 
along with Eniropy T-shirts, will be sold on 
the Midway by Lambda Sigma.
This year as in past years, WRCT will 
change its format, for Spring Carnival. In . 
order to create a carnival-like atmosphere, 
the'daytime programming (7 AM-12 midnighl) will be a mixture of current and old
hits. Bill Doorley7,. General Manager of 
WRCT,.. wants recognizable songs on the 
air. The station will accept requests which 
are in> keeping with this format change.
The stations equipment will be in a 
truck on (he Midway. Most of the music 
will be pre-rccotded on tape and played 
from the .truck...Special requests will be. 
played from the. turntables in the studio.
WRCT will provide complete coverage 
of the Buggy laecs. They will have a truck 
near the starting gate, mobile coverage, 
and remote coverage. All ten heats will be 
aired live, for those who cant drag their 
oooies over to Margaret Morrison at 9 in 
the morning to watch the races themselves. 
Al Bach, Assistant. Sports Director at 
WRCT, will even broadcast a posl-Buggy 
round-up.
People who are Interested in reporting 
on Carnival events arc urged to contact' Bill 
Doorley. Spoils coverage is especially
WRCT will be giving away several 
hundred current record albums, along with 
Spring Carnival T-shirts; during the Carni
val weekend.
Ride tickets will be on sole at the Infor
mation Desk at a 10% discount until noon 
on Thursday.
niane Maddock, Spring Carnival Chair
person ,-wishes'to tiiank all the people who 
have contributed their time and efforts, 
towards making. Carnival '11 a success.
Message from the Gallery
by Jinico Miurlello
From miking to fellow students through
out the year, 1 have concluded that there 
;ire widespread inisconccptions about to 
whom ihc Forbes Street Gallery extends 
ils service. Many believe (hat the Gallery is 
for the exhibition of works by only senior 
students in Art and Design. Similarly, it 
is believed that only seniors arc eligible 
for staff positions al the Gallery. In fact, 
the Gallery invites students from any major 
in the University lo submit their work. 
Also, \vc wclcomc students from other 
disciplines (o familiarize themselves with 
the operations of an arts organization by 
offering their services as volunteer workers.
In an effort lo prevent iliis open invita
tion from being mere theory, wc arc 
presently putting it into prsctice by in
viting <:ll CMU freshmen and sophomores
lo submil drawings and prints to be exhib
ited ;il the Freshman and Sophomore Show.
. Work can be brought to ihc Forbes Street 
Calleiy on Thursday, April 38 from noon 
until 4:0(1 PM and on Snnday, May I 
from 5:00 uni1 8:00 PM. ll is imporl;:nt 
that the urtist is aware of the following 
thice points: I) Ho or she lias the option 
of sollinjj the submlltcd work; 2) The 
work will bo available lor fcluin on .Sun
day, May 8 at 4:(10 PM; .1) The artist may 
store 111 woik ii\ the Gallery over llic sum
mer, at no cost. if he or she will he gone by 
MayS. Students, faculty, and members of
individual suiv*), or in 
display room. We plan t< 
more frequently next ici 
uiitg display room-perl:;!
this term: .April 19, April 26, and May 3. 
All arc inviled to these festive occasions, 
where they can mool llic artists nmrpre' 
view their work. Forbes Street 'Gallery 
hours arc Tuesday through Sunday, noon 
to 4:00 PM, and Tuesday through Thurs
day, 7:00 to y:00 PM.
Gallery for the J 977-1978 season.
Gallery Funds
the Gallery, Student Senate, Student Cor-, 
pcration and AMS is going to be formed lo 
consider proposals for changes. Cindy 
expressed the Importance of the Corpor
ations involvement as a means for finding 
work opportunities for Gallery members.
Cindy explained the importance of the 
Gallery al CMU. Gallery is very different 
lhan any other student organization on 
campus. We in many ways represent this 
university. Over fifty percent of our sales 
are off-campus, and the Pittsburgh com
munity docs view us aa a profcssional-noi 
student-gallery. We work with the public 
and community. This pressure and involve
ment was the main reason for llic tuition.
Also, there is a big untapped resource 
of students here. People get the wrong idea 
that Galiciy is jusl for art majors; v/e don't 
limit or judge anybody.
Cindy emphasized ihc need for greater 
student involvement; she added ihal the 
Gallery is the only student art gallery in 
the country run tolally by students. A 
immljor of forum lunches in the fall are 
being planned to Increase awareness in
No Comment
"Jesus of Nazareth" finished behind 
"Ijvernc and Shirley in that weeks 
Niciseu ratings. Tlu: ACC siuntion-coiv.cily 
had a 32.( rfiting and attracted a 51 share 
(per cent> of those who were watching TV 
at the time, while the first 3-hour sc^nten! 
of the story of Jesus had 32.2 and a 50-
Cummis Wins Skating Award
HISS Loses Power
Al 9:14 PM on March 28, the lights In 
Dotiner Mall flickered on as power was 
finally restored. The lights in. Boss, McGill, 
Scobcll and the others soon followed. The 
Hill dorms were without power for almost 
14 hours when ihc main transformer r.crvinjr the area blew oui at ubnnt 7:45 AM. 
Dutjuesno Ugh! Company officials estim
ated that it would lake at least 24 hours
lo replace the transformer, permanently 
solving lite problem. Rather lhan incon
venience the residents lor this extended 
length of time, the University had a tem
porary transformer inslallcd by the eleclric 
company. This enabled workmen to restore power to the buildings in less than H 
hours. They relumed (he next day to in
stall ilio permanimi transformer.
electric aiartn clocks were late for classes, 
icc crcpili melted in freezers, and hairdryers 
were rendered useless. Problems were com
pounded as the sun went down, and it be
came dcrk inside as well ss outside. Halls 
and stairways were treacherous; fortunate
ly, no one was injured. Residents of the hill 
dormitories handled the situation well.
In response to the crisis, Hum Library 
offered to slay open until 2 AM, but
t Andrea (Andy) Cummis, a sophomore 
,majoring in Electrical Engineering, has won . 
first place in Bronze Dance in the Niagara 
Invitational Ice Skating Comnetifion. h<?M 
in March at Niagara, New York.
The bronze medal signifies that it was 
a regional competition. Silver signifies a 
national competition, and gold is used for 
world competitions. Andy has won several 
bronze medals, and some silver medals.
Andy resumed skaling only this past 
Christmas, after having quit for two years. 
Before quitting, she had been ice skating 
for 13 years. She has just now quit for the 
| second time; it is difficult to find the time 
r lo practice six days a week.
Many students know Andy as Die 
founder of the Ultiniate Frisbee Club-she 
started the CMU chapter last year when she 
was a freshman. This year, she is coach to 
the Frisbee team, Assistant General Manag
er at WRCT, a member of A Phi O, and a 
member of Lambda Sigma. She also finds
time to aiiendclnsi,cs._________________
because power was restored, they closed at 
their regular lime. Skibo Main Diiiing 
Room was.open until midnight, and iwo 
extra Security officers pairolied the dorm 
areas. Dean Williams, the director of 
Student IJfc Officc, sent a memo to live 
students warning them of iho situation and 
urging ihcm to be careful.
Some students wore surprised and 
encouraged to sec that several University . 
administrators stayed cm campus througho;it the evening. Dr. Richard Van Horn. 
Dean l:njle Swank. Bill Dillon, Rob lleaih, 
and Bill lihie were o:i the scene when (he 
lights came on-Just in lime for Charlie's
'UDN SENATE
Wednesdays, 6:30 
WMERRE ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

ApjJI 19nlU977-4: TARPN  Page 7
in
Th.Kiltie Cafe in Skibo will be reno
vated over this summer in order lo provide 
holler food and seat more people.
To keep food hot and reduce the time 
spent waiting in line, a "scatter system 
 will be installed. Tiere will be four lines in
__ the cafeteria, two on cach side. The lines
next to the coat rack will be for beverages 
and condiments. The two already existing 
lines will be for hot and cold food.
To prevent the entrees from gelling cold 
while vegetables arc being put on the plate, 
.all vegetables will be served in small dishes. 
Plans include having a cashier at the end 
of each line during busy times, and offering 
( about six varieties of made-to-order deli 
sandwiches, available for lunch and dinner.
Besides keeping food hot; a goal which 
John Eichmuller, Director of Food Services, 
called one of cur primary concerns, the 
scatter system should at least double the 
present speed of the lines.
In addition lo the installation of the 
scatter system, there aie plans to increase, 
the cafeteria's scaling capacity from 450 
to 600. This will be done by rearranging 
and adding tables and chairs, and removing 
the condiment stations.
According to Eichmuller, bids on the 
project will be submitted soonHe expects 
that the renovation will cost between 
$80-100,000. Dam' and Pcdone, the 
architectural fimi that designed the changes 
in the Tartan Grill, drew up the plans for 
tlic Kiltie Cafe.
Because of the renovation, both the 
Kiltie Cafe-md Faculty Dining Room will 
be closed throughout the summer. Morewood Cafeteria and the Tarlan Grill will 
remain open on both a cash and contract 
basis.
During Spring Carnival, all six lines in 
the Tartan Grill will be open. Food
Services intends to install.a.PAsystcm in 
the Grill toon, in an effort to reduce the 
congestion caused by people waiting 
the counter for their orders.
It's-Not Too Late;ounler for their orders.   vv / I #C eiling 0 Gong Show!
! Ask at Skibo Information Desk
Computer Chess GameThe ceiling of the Mudge Graduate 
House kitchen' came crashing down last 
week, littering the floor wilh plaster and 
a supporting beam with an attached floures-. 
cent light fixture. The Head Resident of 
Mudge', Dr. Bob Morgan, was standing 
about len feel away from the
iti'on quiet and avoid thetactical situations, 
where it would have too much of an advan
tage. Then, every effort was made to have 
it commit too many pawns to the wrong 
when s9areIThe computer's! strategy
the cave-in occured. The accident is attri
buted to leaking water from repeatedly 
overflowing toilets on the third floor. 
The water seeped down lo the second lloor 
causing thefirst floor ceiling to cotlap;
poor-lt has a memory of the openings, but 
il doesnt understand them.
Admitting his surprise at ihe develop
ment in computer-played chess, Levy said, W-CHESS 4.5 
I had no idea that programs would bo as 
Maintenance had been informed about advanced as this when I made the bet nine yean; ago. But Levy still doesnt 
think lie will lose the bet, and is even con
sidering amending it to cover another five 
years. It is reported lhat Botvinnik, a'for
mer World Chess Champion and a con-' 
tributor to the Russian chess programming
effort, told Levy nine years ago that I feel 
sorry for your money.
Two games were played by Levy and 
CHESS 4.5 here at CMU. One was a blitz 
game, in which each player is allowed Rye 
minutes for his entire game; ihe computer 
won. The serious match, which Levy won, 
is presented below.
the leaking toilets, and the floors were 
mopped up, but the toilets were never 
fixed.
Just before Spring Break, the halls in 
A-wing were painted, the hall carpels were 
cleaned, and grass was planted around the 
edge of the driveway. Some members of 
the Mudge House Council believed that 
these cosinelic improvements were done in 
preparation for the coming visit of 
members of the Mudge family, who do
nated the dorm lo the University.
House Council President, V. R. V. 
Ramanan said dial lie hopes that the toilet 
problem will be given top priority by. 
Maintenance, especially after '\ve were 
told at the Auxiliary Services Committee 
meeting that a major reason for housing 
rates increases is (he increased cost of 
maintenance.
k, mors
VASQUE
P WWAGALIB1ER 
fECHNICA
il jn*mtamlWut Stop
1. P-K4, P.QB4
2. N-KB3, P-Q3
3. P-Q4, Px P
4. N x P, N-KD3
5. N-QB3, P-KN3
6. P-B3, B-N2
7. B-K3, 0-0
8. Q-Q2, N-D3 .
9. B-QB4.T-QR3
10.N*N?,PxN
11. 0-0, N-Q2
12. P-D4, N-N3
13.B-K2, B-K3
14. P-QN3!?, N-Hl
15. P-QR3, Q-R4
16. P-QN4, Q-B2
17. P-B5, Q-Q2
18. -R6, Q-N3ch
19. K-Rl, Q-Q5
20. QxQ.DxQ
21. R-B3, B-N2
22.1I.Kx
BLevy
23. R-N1.N-N3
24. KR-B1.KR-QN1
25. QR-Q1, P-B3
26. P-QR4?,P-QR4
27. P-N5, P x P
28. P xP, R-Bl
29. R-Q3, R-D4
30. R-N3, R(1)-QB1
31. R(l)-B3, P-R5
32.P-R4.P-R6
33.PxP.PxP
34. R-K3.B-K3
35.P-R5.P-N4
36. N-Q5.P-R7
37. R-QR3,BxN
38. P x B, R x l(7)
39. B-Q1.R-Q7
40. K-R2, R-B8
41. B-N3,P-R8=Q
42. R x Q, R x R .
43. Resigns
T SHIRTS 
HOW ON SE IN ENTROPY
SHADYS1DE CHURCH 
COLLEGE FELLOWSHIP
isp-' it
,
TIME* OUT
Tuosdoy, April 19 
CfrclatianBCjf and Scdo/
"Sox and the ExIsJcnco of Gcd" 
Terry Thomas Grovo CUy Collogo
Tuesday April 26 
fcr!s?icnfcy and Madia
"Th Parcblo" Film Lssod on Soron 
Kierkegaard's work 
Dlrocfor-Producor James Hodgu
Meetings proeadcd by volleyball 
and rofroshmenrs in Shadysldc Gyn 
Cornaeio-Mollon students invited. 
Fcr further InfcrmaJlcn call

---------------------------------------------------

Pae B WTfcfiTWWApriti 9; :T977
Ap rilr19,7 V9171l,7o
SPRING CARNIVAL CONCERT
Hm,e 7V1rmAN ub17,7o
8-00 PM CMU GYM
$8.00 GENERAL PUBI iC 
NATIONAL RECORD MART
rrJ

---------------------------------------------------

Conference For Black Engineers
by Mfchaal Abton 
Th Third Annual National Conference 
of the Nalional Society of Black Engineers 
was held April 1*3 in Atlanta* Georgia.'The 
two delegates from Carnegle-Mellon were 
. Keith McDonald, a graduate in Civil
 Engineering-Mathcmatics, and ' Michael 
Alston, a sophmorc in Electrical Engineer
ing. In attendance at the conference were 
delegates (representatives with voting rights) 
and observers from over fifty-five instilu' 
tions across the country, including Brown 
University, Cal. Tech, Georgia Tcch, Johns  
Hopkins, M.I.T., Pratt Institute, Princeton, 
Purdue, and Stanford.,
The National Society of Black Engineers 
/ is a nalional student-based organization de
dicated to. the development of intensive 
programs for increasing Black and other 
ethnic minority participation ia the Held of 
engineering and engineering technology. 
These programs are initiated both within 
and outside the university community, and 
serve to strengthen relations between pro
fessional industry and the Bilack commu
nity. Members of the NSBE are encouraged
 to-join-and-participatc in their Individual 
professional societies; the organization en
deavors to provide general counseling to 
all. .The objectives of the NSBE are to pro
mote and develop minority student interest 
in engineering; to strive to increase the 
numberof minority students studying engi
neering at both the undergraduate and 
graduate levels; and to stimulate the ad
vancement of the ethnic minority engineer 
in professional industry. Membership'and 
participation in the-NSBE is free from di-: 
diminution on the basis of sex, rare, 
religion, cthnic group, or national origin.
Beginning s rhird y^r ey.>f..Cf, 
the National Society, founded at Purdue 
University, is the umfic^ion of several in
dividual groups across the country. The 
structure of the NSBE has three levcJsnational, regional, and local. The regional 
level is composed of six regions which 
encompass all the colleges and universities 
in the fifty stales. Carnegie-MeUon is in 
Region II, which is comprised of six states 
in the Southeastern part of the U. S.; 
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Penn
sylvania, South Carolina, and West Viijjlnia. 
At the local level arc the individual chap
ters, which arc chartered at various institu
tions ofhijher learning.
At the conferencc, held on Georgia 
Tcchs campus, new National Officers, 
Committee Heads, and Regional, Chair
persons were elected.. In the elcclion of 
Committee. Heads, Keith McDonald was 
elected new Counniinicalirms Committee
Civ. E Wins Paper Contest
Seth-'-Pesrlmas:.. a. junior. Ln .Ci>iI Engi
neering, won first place prize in the 
Student Paper Contest at the 1977 
Allegheny Student Chapter Conferencc 
sponsored by the Ami 
Civil Engineers. Forty-fn
I
speaker. _____
The Allegheny conference is held
annually and hosted by one of the member 
Civil Engineering Departments.1 The
Society of purpose of the confcrcncc is to provide a
people attended forum for exchange of ideas amoqg the
the conference, held a? West  Virginia student chapters. This years program
University, representing CMU, Pitt and included a guided tour of the Morgantown
WVU. Mr. Pcarlman presented a paper Personal Rapid Transit System. Also
titled, Civil Engineering In the Next 25 attending the conference were Assistant
Years. Judges in the contest were Mr. Professor Richard Luthy, who is Faculty
WilliamAtwell, Contact Member for '-Advisor .to CMUs ASCK, and civil cngithe ASCE student chapter at WVU; Mr. ncering students Dave Andreko and Doug
Sherwood Richardson, President of tire Konopka,
Pittsburgh Section of the ASCE; an<l
ivir. StuanKirpa
 April.i9-.1977 - TRTAN sKPag 9:
SUPA Survey
by Switfy Como 
Faculty and staff will be surveyor] this 
month on the details'of their selection last 
year of alternate health care plans. Aa 
overwhelming number of employees, oflered a new and different mcdicsl health plan 
to replace the usual Blue Cross/Blue Shield, 
remained with the traditional plan. SUPA 
students conducting the survey hope to 
discover reasons for selection of the plans. - 
Students . David Juba and Jonathan 
Shaddy, under the direction of DrJudith 
Lave, will distribute'.questionnaires to a 
sample group of approximately 600 uni
versity employees, who were among the 
1600 ofTered alternative Health Main
tenance Organization plap. (Only 200 
of the 1600 chose ihu new plan;)
The university offered the new pre. payment plans as alternatives to the Dine 
Cross/Blue Shield insurance package - In 
. response to the rcccntly-legislnted federalHealth Maintenance Organization Act. 
Central Medical: Health Plan and Penn 
. Group Health Plan provide subscribers with 
. extended benefits in. a'centralized clinic 
housing, where physicians are able to 
take advantage of certain economies of 
sharing. The monthly premium, about 
seven dollars more expensive than the 
traditional plan, coven clinic visits, physicjans fees,_nrescriptirtn medicarions, and 
diagnostic studies, in addition to the un
limited hospitalization and emergency 
care provided by the traditional plan.
Pointing out that their research may 
have implications for Impending national 
health care program studies. Juba and 
Shaddy emphasize that response'to the 
questionnaires is critical to the validity of 
their statistical sampling. They encourage 
faculty and staff receiving the question. nalrss to complete them at home with help 
from their famines, and return them 
quickly. The 14 page survey, accordlwMo
Glass Sand Corpora:
Mr. 1'cariman was presented with 
engraved pen and pencil set, and the CMU 
Student Chapter wns presented wi 
check for $30 for sponsoring the wir
23Cann gMU vg3s t3syCPtgood you can do until you doit.
ChairOlliev
und tlic choice of an Official Seal To: the 
NSBE. Guest spoakeis included Mayor 
Wayward Jackson of Atlanta, Mrs. Margaret 
Pittman of the Small Business Adminis
tration of Atlanta, and Dr. Rudolph J.
Frai 
Dell Laboi
Elect
Nuclear
instructors
The leading operator of Nuclear Hoactors is currently seeking men 
and women to serve on ihs faculty of its Nuclear Propulsion School in 
. Orlando, Florida. A minimum of a Baccalaureate Degree with an 
engineering, puro science or math background is required. Advance 
degrees and teaching oxpericnee preferred but not mandatory. Selec
ted highly qualified applicants still in.pursuit of a Baccalaureate dcgraa 
will ba considered and if selected are eligible for monetary com
pensation during the remainder ot college. The successful candidate 
will be challenged by the entire spectrum of torching,, from remedial 
. to post graduate courses. Subjects to bo taught may includo: 
mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, heat transfer and fluid 
flow, materials, chemistry, vadio-logical controls 3nd risactov plant
Competitive salaries,' personal growth end development and ex
cellent benefits arc, available to succcwful applicants. Upon selection, 
applicants are dirc-ctly appointed Ensign, USNR, and are entitled to en 
excellent benefits program including 30 days paid vacation, freo 
medical and dental care and a complete relocation policy. PioGsa send 
rnsurrio, including salary history to:
Howard University.
D C COI 3.
It !1 do you good co see 
how n-.uchgd you can d<
Vblnnieen
wcrurcmg Direct r
iPsiiswurgh, -
M L.yC/.3.
burgh

---------------------------------------------------

Page'ta &"f WWW.
Bio DeptChanges
CwnlMiri (iwn p^a 
available.Thu change affects Ous year's 
Biology freshmen, and.upperclassmen are 
to Mttle the mallei with their advisors.
. According: to. Dr. Kelley.thcse changes 
afford the student a greater ability.to take 
courses In other Helds of personal Interest. 
They will also give the department, greater
considered to' mean only classical biology.)
Dr. Kelley is' optimistic .about the new 
changes. . "1 feej that we haye mode/a 
 positive, progressive step \
Cheating Rule
flexibility In -developing and instituting i.emning experii 
ncwclasses.
Dr. Kelley emphasized that the curricu
lum Is not being softened, but merely that 
classcs are being better distributed between 
the Sophomore and Junior years. He also 
pointed out tha1
university cxtaUdear .standards for student work.
In, any prcsentatlorticreative; artistic, or 
research, it is. the'"ethical responsibility Of 
each student to iderttlfy the conceptual : 
sources of his work.' Failure. tordo so is
changing !lie.curriculum ^^0IlcslWlieiever-l'plirasi;wltterr'0rmiis3cajl 
: graphic element,-.-a proof, or specific 
language is reproduced in the work sub' 
mltted by a siudent.Tailure to indicate the 
jne of sourcc wilh quotation marks where approP*?.  toot.. contfMln pfagUrbm' ^,'7,,arge of cheating be heard before 
to the inorc general title of 'Biological an<* JS subject to disciplinary action. This the University Committee 
Sciences. (Biological Sciences is often definition ol plagiarism will apply in all At the option of the
required much cooperation and compro
mise by all the departments and people 
involved.
A final change is that on graduation 
degrees, a title of specializatio
Universltjr' courses yunleiv. modified In 
writing/or a specific count* by the instrocfor that course.:
Cheating Includes, but is not necesMriljr 
limitcdto;
1: The use of unauthorized materials 
Induoihg' ;rompu(er pfopHriiQiihg: bi prep* 
a rat ion of. an assignment or during'an
' . 2. The submission or use <i f fal.i fd 
data.. r-.'
3. The submission of work that is not. 
the students own; 
 4. Plagiarism. .
'5. The use :of. an alicmate/siand-ln/; 
proxy during an examination.
: 6. Supplying" unauthorized data - to: 
anpther.student.lbr the' preparation oi' an 
assig'nmeritorduringM.e
In the event that a faculty member 
accuses a student of cheating and imposes a 
penally, the student who believes tUat the. 
>n is unjust has the right to request
i Discipline.
^THEWUJS INSTITUTE^
Here's a wty lor college 
graduate to experlenc Israel is 
a comprehensive one-yeer 
study/work programme. You 
spsnd your 5 months In 
Arad, o dynamic new town, 
together wtlh other graduates from all over (he world. There 
you will study Hebrew, Judolca 
and Israeli sodety, combined with tours and a kibbutz peilod.
For the following 7 montlis or 
more, you can either work in 
your profession, 
klbbuh o ' 
re-traln pi
studying. The World Union ol 
Jewish Students Instilut* in Arad 
could be the beginning of your 
love affair with Israel.
Inael Aliyih Center. 515 Park Avenue,New York, New York 10022, (212) 752-0600
ruKi
to the University Committee on Discipline.
New Head forTGiFb Dances
'People have to find out what TGs 
axe all about, " said vcbcgpb Marshall, 
newly 'elected head of ABs Thank God 
Its Friday dances. Ms. Marshall pointed, 
out-that the danccs arc intended to be a 
Friday afternoon relaxing experience. 
.People can just hang around, enjoy the mu
sic, dance, and RELAX.
Ms. Marshall .took die job becuusc she 
wanted to help people bccome more aware 
of the TGs since, after all, the students 
pay for [the TGIF bands] with their ac
tivities fees. One of the major changes for 
next year, according to Ms. Marshall.'will 
be an Increase in Ihe publicity for TGlFs.
On April 30, TGIF and the AB Concert 
Committee will join forcesto put on a 
concert/dance titled, Rites or Spring. 
There wtll be one major band and two
SecurityBriefs
 .An 'uutbreak ;of robberies;, has been: 
reported by residents of. E Tower in More; wood  Gardens'. /'Six'- thefts jeouned-'irr' 
three days, with, four lnjuslonenight, over 
the three week period before Spring Break.
. According fo Mike Corletti.-Director of 
Security, the robber entered Ihe rooms of 
sleeping-students. He took only -money.' 
from.wallets, .leaving -easily ' portable, 
valuable items behind. The largest sum of 
money stolen fiom an individual wassto.; : v;.;y' /';
Though the' thefts happened-before '. 
Spring Break, Corletti pointed out that the 
robber may return. The thieFwas described 
as being about six feet tall,-with short hair, 
and wearing an army fatigue jacket.' 
Corletti urges all domi residents, especially, 
those in . Morcwood,' to lock their doors 
before going to .bed and immediately 
report ihV'prcserice oi suspiious-Jou'iuiig  
strangers to Security.
it
On March 25,.at about 8 PM, u,woman 
was assaulted while walking towards the 
back, doors of Margaret Morrison; near the 
athletic stands. The assailant came up from 
behind, covercd her mouth arid told her 
that if she would remain quiet she would 
not be hurl. When the wo.naii bit one of 
Uis ting and scrcarr.cd, he released her 
and ran off towards Forbes. Avenue.
. The attacker has been described as 
slightly built, and about live feet, eight 
inches tall. He was wearing a, blue jacket 
and high black boots. According to 
Corletti, This was oriiy an assault, but it 
could have been much worse.. Screaming 
wont always work When youre attacked, ' 
but its worth a try. The victim behaved 
very calmly and was fortunate.
?Seatiind bicvclc
owners that bicycle thefts arc numerous at 
this tirnrj of year. Bicycles should always be 
looked, preferably with a kryptonilc lock, 
which cannot be severed with a bolt cutter.  
Tlicst locks cost S1S-20 and ate available 
in the Bookstore.
Workshop Coureas far Edutsiors: Life Ci-isca Situations, Ssxuallty, etc. n Womens Studias: The Psychology of Woman, Wcmen and the Law, etc. ? Arcbsofugioal Plaid Trairwng at Meedowcroft Rocksi!ier ? Short Sassion CourMts: Accolerated Learning ,? Writing Wctkihop a no Journalism Coui-sss Q Pve-madicil ann Pro-low Courses ? Com|JUtr5? rraoramtuin
TUiTiONt $43 per credit f
MAIL TO: 
OffhsefSuranw 8c!ss?C3Ccttsr1c Uarniny
UnlrtKlty ci PfcUtowsh PIKljurc'i, PA "S520
'^!t^4Ka^&*\KH^all>aaS^UG2a

---------------------------------------------------

** *
April 19. 1977 - TARTAN Page 1,1
New Entropy Boss
Entropy, according to Webster, is the 
. ultimate stale, of inert uniformity; but al 
CMU, Lynn Marstiller, currently .'one of 
Entropy* purcUaiiftg sgcnls imd iwwlyappointed store. manager for next year, 
plans to change and improve Entropy 
rather than jet .it. drift into total inertia. 
Marstiller. an English major (creative 
writing) with a minor in business,, will be 
Entropy's first non-AMS manager.
Originally organized by an AMS student, 
Enlropy continues the tradition of its dual 
purpose: a learning exprience for management students and a eonvenicn'cc for CMU 
students, faculty, and staff. But how well 
does Entropy provide for the needs of 
its customers?-
Suggestion lists are posted in the store 
and customers aie encouraged to offer 
constructive' criticism. We do use th 
suggestions if we can,  explains Marstiller, 
but wc are. quileTimited in the changes 
that can be made. A common complaint 
of Entropy customers is the limited variety 
of products. According to Marsliller, 
Entropy buys from only ten supply com
panies. We really can't get a total
variety of products or change the kinds of 
producs wc sell." she says. We have to 
accept the biaiids that those companies 
supply."
Hems that Entropy stocks include snacks, 
sodas, magazines, albums, school..supplies, 
personal producs, the daily -and Sunday 
Pittsburgh Press, and the Sunday N.Y.
that Entropy irys to cairy :i little bit.of 
evciyihiiir'," says one puzzled student, 
but why, when the variety is so limiled,
. like Gci'itol'?sthe
Marstiller. are already marked up 30% by 
the company when they arrive. Entropy, 
then cuts that price down to a'20% mark-up-over the retail vaiue. Entropy prices 
cannot be expected to correspond to'chain 
supermarket (A&P, Krogers, etc.). prices; 
but they.do seem to relate to prices in 
small conven lence stores that are similar 
to Entropy, such as Stop-n-Go and LiL 
General stores.'
The appearance of Entropy affects its 
customers almost as much as variety and. 
prices. I feel like I have claustrophobia 
when I go in there, says one student.
' "Everything Is so jammed:' Although 
Entropy needs room, to expand, the possi
bilities are not promising. . If we. canf 
move, saysMatstilier,' wcwiillakc other 
measures. While manager, she. plans to 
.remove the center counter to reduce both 
clutter and shoplifting. Marstiller. also 
hopes , to .replace the.carpeting and Bahts . 
to improve the'Entropy atmosphere. 
In dditiotv to cosmetic changes, 
Marstiller will be responsible for-all other 
aspects of the store, including the hiring of 
employees. Entropy hires twelve students 
al salaries starting at $2.00 an hour, with 5 
cenl taisvs vry scnwslei. Employnieui 
forms are now available al the Entropy 
register -counter-next to die suj^cslion
SPIRIT
Student Senate for a 56,000 bud0et for 
next .year.- -This is a significantly laiger 
budget.'-According to Wilson, this past 
ye'ars 'allotment was .Insufficient', lo pay 
for tlie kind of high quality, programs and 
distinguished speakers which Spirit strive?, 
to. present, in their effort to further 
campus awareness of minority *.!.
Wilson expressed concern over a state
ment a.tlribnicd to him that was printed in 
the last .TARTAN. It is completely false 
that he docs not think that Spirit mem
bership should be extended to non-black 
minorities. Rallicr, Barney feels that 
Spirit membership is open to all minor
ities, but that the proper time far a 
membership drive is not during an 
election.
Dear Brothers and Sisters,
Spirit' is an organization for people of 
color' (Afro-American, Chinese, Arab, 
etc.) and it-must be supported by the 
people of coldr on the Carncgie-Mdlou 
University campus. All your ideas arc 
welcome and will be'coiisiderod by'my
self, Coordinator Barney Wilson, and the 
Spirit Advisory Board. The best way to 
lidi) ns and.yourselves.is to join the body 
and help ii giow, physically 3d tncnialiy. 
All you have to do is conn? to tin; Spirit 
Registration on April 29th at 4 1>M. The 
membership fee is SI per year. An addi
tional donation of S.50 per moiuh.'lo
I. If you'Vail o 
;top by ih
40, Im. The
i t i IG?1 
APRI ?' *
Pub. at $5.75 - On'rS3
MOUNTAINS. ByJ.Ctanns.MOWus., 50 in Full Color. A photojoumalin with the 1972 International Expedition to Mt. Everest writes about the mountains in mythology, in hlctory, in religion, and In reality and supports
THE WORK OF FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT. The Groat Wendigen Edition. Introd. by Mrs. F. L. Wright.. 200 Photos,: Drawings & Plans. Magnificent volume, mirror of the creative $eniu& of the greatest arluxurious vol. contamino needy 2400 entries o fiera essential info, on pamtars, sculptors, anhitects snd.sehooie
work, his i fluence oh other artista, broad Ml and description of styles, schools, a
Pub. at 425.00 Only 12.98
y m.Tg Vcnncswt's-BREAKFAST OFCHAMPIONS. Sth Printing. KRgore Trout, SciFI writer, teds MWtand City Pontiac deator Dwayne Hoover facts
aett that he Is now forww free of the whims or his literary creator, Kurt Von* neguton the occasion of the author's SOlhWrthtiaylPubl.at$7.95 On'yW.98
A NATURAL HISTORY OFOWLS. By
highly: developed skills, becomo the ultimata bird of pray. (BVx.HK")- Special Votue $8.98 
MAKING THINGS GROW OUTDOORS. tiy Thatas&e Cruao, H lull
ting and maintaining your gwden from
ed. Only?
THE MGM STOCK COMPANY: The Golden Era. By J. R. Parish & R. L.i uook packed lull i
film lore with carefully detailed biographies and career studies of the great MGM stare, film listings of over 6,075 movies, salary statistics, contemporary reviews, etc. Ind. Fred Astaire. Lucilio Bell, Clark Gablo, Elizabeth Taylor, ccorus more.Ori3. Pub! at $14.95 New, complete* 0d.On!y96.S8 
Leo Curochor: NICE GUYS FINISH LAST, 60 Photos. Mom than just 0 . biography of one of the greatest men
Pub. at $10.35 Only 52.93
THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF JAZZ IN THE SIXTIES. By Leonard Feather. 200 Photon. A complete aurvoy of the
Now, complote od. Only $7.Sa
THECOMPLETEWORKSOF W1LUAM SHAKESPEARE. A! that
the an 1C23 Vnnoer
THE WORLD IN MY CAMERA. By Gissll Ficund. Over 100 btaclt and whito photographs; 1(3 pages in c
of her oPub. at $15.00 Only SI
PORTRAIT OF A MARRIAGENigel Niholson. An absorbing, c
ipended. 1.1C0 DoubleColumn ptioes: ribbon teockmiif It.Special Value 54.53 
THE BOOK OFBRIDGES. By  Maydan. Tlio history, t odinolo'iv and : of bridyss an their builders.
markablo m3rrioge -
Fromstepa totheroariiia Wadicy. Over ICO tthtti., 0 in Fu;

---------------------------------------------------

Warm Weather Hits CMU5tudents Hit theGreatOutdoors
New Policy for State Grants
 o' the appcalion.would be futile, 
ever. PlIliAA has nal finalized its need 
/sis formula l'or 1977-7 and they arc
SUPA Survey
clal Aid Officc ^ncoilirYgw^^rultumii K the' adjusted gross incomc is above Juba, looks'lTne. but can be 'done by
Remission of Tuition recipients lo file a S2S.C00 wc saggosl applying if ilie family most people in less than ten minutes.
l977^,nApplicatlons may btaSby dependent child.cn is greater, than .four Compietion of the report is targeted
contacting (hc^inanci^d Office on Ihc s"8g^ fo* >* June._ Those who respond to
YOU CANT TAKE IT WITH YOU
it was just perfect for your 
room last September, but 
now...
Now you can solve the problem and 
make some extra cash at the same time.
If you have any books, records, furniture, 
plants,, skiis .. .whatever .. you can sign 
up for the flea market at the Skibo in
formation Desk by April 26th. it's $5 for a 
half table and $10 for a fui! one.
The fiea market will be held or) Saturday, 
April 30th in the Skibo Parking Lot.
AIS students, faculty and staff are 
welcome to participate.
Sponsored by the Student Govermyseni Corp.

---------------------------------------------------

Encore
SPRIMG CARNIVAL
DANCE
iF THE SHOE FITS 
TWO LANE HIGHWAY
Ddj^ POP 
. THE IDIOT
PIL/^MS
QUEEN OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
 tm^7im)'.p3Cs)WDii. 
LOW
HUNKY DORY 
YOUNG AMERICANS
SPACE QUDITY 
ALADDIN SANE 
DIAMOND DOGS
THE RISE AND FALL OF ZiGGY STARDUST
FLIGHT LOG /1SBB-1S7S
THE WORST OF JEFFERSON AIRPLANE
DRAGONFLY
SPITFIRE
VOLUNTEERS
RED QCTUPUS
BIGGER THAN THE BOTH OF US

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 -TARTN - April 19; 1977

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENTAB PRESENTS PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUEby Juan Konkie
Pure Prairie League, one of the nation's 
foremost country-rock groups, will be play
ing here Friday night. The band first achieved proininancc with the success of the 
single Aimee, taken from (heir sccond al
bum, BustinOut, in 1974.-
The six member group was formed in 
1971. Their first drummer, Jim Caughlan, 
suggested the groups unusual name: Pure 
Prairie League was the name of a womens 
tcmpereucc union in the 1939 Errol Flynn 
film Dodge City. Because it was so offbent, the group dccided to take it on, 
thinking that it would be a name people 
would remember.
And after Aimee and the band's five 
highly praised albums, people are rcmembering Pure Prairie League. The band's' 
first four albums, Pure Prairie League. 
Bustin'Out, Two fane Highway, and If the 
Shoe Fits, have all sold several hundred 
thousand copies. Their current album 
Dance, is scliing so well the group is hoping 
1 will be their firsL gold album.
All six members of the group coinc 
from bluegrass country along the Ohio 
River, and their origins arc always evident 
in their music. The group recently decid
ed, though, to piny more rock. As George 
Powell, co-founder of the band, pul it, 
Were gonna get the song out there and 
put the hammer down. I think thats wluit 
the nudicnce wants, too."
The band has been on tour since Janu
ary. Last year, the band was on the road 
about 200 days. Bassist Michacl Reilly 
characterized 1ure Prairie League as a 
working band. When were not bn the road, 
were either in the studio or workingxluJu.
The bunds plans for the future include mer. According to Reilly, Were-always 
making Los Angeles their permanent home; little more reckless on stage than u
since they record all. their albums there at sterile atmosphere of the studio. We
RCA. Musically, their next goal is to record to get some of the excitement of our
.a live album shortly, for release lliis sumcerts onto our records.
. CMU wont have to wait for the album, 
the Tlie excitement and vitality of Pure Prairie 
League will be here this Friday at 8:00. 
AB will be presenting them as their Spring 
Carnival Concert in (he Gym.
"PURE PRARIE LEAGUE" TO APPEAR AT SPRING CARNIVALTHE LATE SHOW:ENTERTAINMENT ONLY
i sure-fire are both waiting Tor the bus together 
.o dislike, credits roll by. Theyre destined to live a lile
(.big surprise!;, Ho-v.'h vA ie?r>nr>. Carridy) always thoughl ti>cy hoW
by the way they ^ 'an Ocxceplion of Uie indestructible pinning the rap and settling the beef.
.................... Roach, rarely rise above mcdiocrity. The Dut I'* no nsc of discover) here, no
icrforniances lack direction, lack focus, feeling of accomplislimeni on die audiences
admits 1by Cr:r.y Z'r.Mz 7/e know Ul'e\
The Late Show is one of (Jios 
films that youre not supposed I _________ _____________________
11 lias a built-in, ready-made audience appeal 0r eternal happiness. EdffittfSy. BraywiblSi ttOwifS.... .......
tliats guaranteed to smile back wlielh or you MarEo is everything Ira is not, or everyviMS Tilcy prcMllt dicir spcciajilics ana as Benton tries to mix his comedy wi Hi sussmilinB or not. It offers a few Iau3lis, thins anyone else is not, for that matter/ amiabk  meSMa aIe, they do pense, but this venture exceeds liis 0, os
nothing to heighten the impact of the film, a director. Few directors short of Hitchcock 
Benton is frying to direct with his writer's cam nuke you laugh while their pounding 
eye. Me cant seem to decide on a tone, a you to a pulp. There are a couple of suvsuperfici3l suspense and 
charm dial glimmers like a r 
expounding Lite message, Youre
pseudoDie character offer; a little bit for anyone
con sit'll whos paid the price of admission. Shes got
going (o to touch all the bases. Here we have an overforty woman who bums incciisc, practices 
In truth, the film is spineless. Very Yoga, downs cans of cola in one shot and 
uneven tempos and no sense of rhytJun promanages West Coast cntcrlalncis. She is the 
vent it from looking like a well-made duillcr, films resident ccccntric, but the script only 
even for what it is. Given the material and supplies cccenlricitics for the sake of cuteils obvious intentions the production could ness. It's not the stuff a solid character is
never bs expected to rise above a grsde-B made of. There is an empty, commercial
murdey-myslery at its best, or a tawdry method to Margos madness, 
crowd pleascr at its worst. It makes 110 proArt Carney and Lily Tomlin are not 
tenlions of being capable of elevating the actors of great range, but they are capable 
film media into a higher order of art. Il was enough to handle what this writer gives 
niiide to be entertaining, not that this is diem to work with, which is precious 
unvir liioiis. little.
But (he qualm 1 have, about entcriaisiWriter/director Robert Benton was 
mg films of this nature is liiat they parade app?rcnUy trying to establish a colorful 
their seal of approval with every line of rapport between the two, similar to (hat 
dialogue, with every delineation of character .between such gianls ;is Bogart and Bacall, 
or stroke of style. How can you argue with a But ilie Carncy/Tonilin chcmislry doesnt 
60-year-o!d deicctive (played by die persework. The relationship never solidifies, 
vering Art Carney), with a bum leg and a their worlds don't touch. This impasse is 
hearing aid, who docs his own laundry while partly because earh actor is (00 preoccupied 
his ulcer bleeds as lie recites exhausting with keeping each of the characters own 
diatribes on the butchery of medical praetiidiosyjicracies. But ihe blame rests mainlv 
tioncrs. If that's not enough, he rides the with Benton, v/Ito is too prcoccupicti wiui 
bus, wears suits that look like hes slept in coming up with witty dialogue, despite uit 
them and lives alone in one room at 2 hoardfact that it rarely evolves out of I 
ding house for which lie pays the rent by tcrs and (licit situations. Most of romhns 
the week. So much for subtleties of chnraclines could be farmcd-cut for use 011 inc 
ter. nightclub circuit.,The actors don 1 sianci a
The poor mans name is Ira Wells. The chance, 
plights of his existence arc carefully spelled Where was the director on this film? The
out so that wc might particip.it i:i tiie sufInlcnt is wasted on no-account material,
fering. Iw counters name is Margo (played Gen ion allows Carney to sentimentalize 
by Lily Tomlin). The development of their on the chanctcr he is portraying and Tomlin 
relationship is routine, itr-iight off
dio's shopworn stockpile: man meets woman, laugh she can find. Theie U no ensemble, p-.s>c (i.s;vi together. The clci dato
man bcjiitis to begnjdgingly tolerate woman. The rest of the supporting cast (Bill Uvc films worked because the audicr.c
!930*s.
: present day. This could ba an c D
al dcvice if Benton had the she p
make it work. But it never pars off. maa:1 
The plot is ?.s nebulous ss tho Eogar; swee 
clou: lots of facts, lots of names 3nd little zudli 
5 to paste t
13 oilow-ups or rei 
311. I forgot to tell vou 11m this 1 
:it eod<Li:nn way to maiic a huc. 
 tiic mood lighting and th 
111 over the interiors, this is by n< 
aadcs thriller.'It tries to 
lor acceptance and leaves il 
filled to satiety in entartanmeni

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - TART/y* - April 19,1977
CltY FLAVfckS ADJUii'l BLN lONs'ON'
FOOD SERVICE I
,e1 wmN,m1 rihh11 eib71 pAw192^51b m
IOPEN EVENINGS 1
&
0  12 MSD&HiGH? |
Bm*Ssig Sprlesg Carnte&Ss I
. '1 .Cl 1

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1977-TARTAN^ Page 17
"THEATRE EXPRESS' CONTINUES TO CROW
Tlieir work takes them to numerous colPrCCSS' bSCOrn'"E
Uon, mim^yVsl 'and Sui oU^r'sS., April 17 to May 3 f
stablfV taS"w. directed by Rina Yerushalmi, Cr/i CMfc.
stantly growing. They continue to operate directed by Ken Kuta .Killing Came, dtrecthroughgrsiiis given to them by such comled by WOltam Turner and . new mime
tffi RANDY KOVITZ AND SUSAN CASH IN A^ SCENE FROM CATS__CRADLE"
GThecBookwoiiii
manager and a CMU nlumni of 75, argues 
tlidt Chore is a great void in American Thea
tre outside of New York City, and the pub-
SHELLY CRANDALL AND RANDY KOVITZ IN A SCENE FROdrwOYZECK
irairecl bUL not Tuliy tested talent to re'- Express is a bargain tint most colleges can Chaih Collose Tlteatre is part of Me 
fine Ihiir skills, but tbey slso assist lit U auord; production costi are kept to a minilibrary Complex or Gnlham't campus, lite 
preservation of live and quality repertory mum for lliis reason. The average New York schedule is as follows: Cat's Cradle will be 
theatre in the United States. road show cosls between six and seven performed on-the evenings of April 17.22,
We have a few openings, 
in the vineyard Cop * 
with us. The hois 
The pay is low. A  
promise is ihe qpp^ i rJL 3. 
to help others and a quiet 
pride inycurwork. A few 
peopfe vvill even fettle you.
One will be eimtaify
gxskiui Hjs name is Gad.
If inscrcsced in studying for As Catholic fticsshcod, 
eonrsci: Father OTeoJe, Pittsbui^h Dioceie, 
lil Blvd. of she Allies, 15222 or cali 4l2-i56-307fi.
RANDELL HAYNES AND /.CHRISTOPHER O'CONNOR IN."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTN - April i9,1977
CARTER'S : "JUST A STONE'S THROW AWAY'
ll might be presumpiious to assume 
that Valeric Carter, whose very impressive 
album. Just A Stones Throw Away, is 
being groomed to inherit the nymphet/ 
toiclt-songstress title from Linda Ronstadt. 
But her voice posses both the innocent 
nubility and the warm, womanly maturity 
that the title demands. In her album jacket 
pictures slit does look like a little girl 
dressing up in Mommys bonnet and chin
chilla. besides, how long can the 30year 
old Ronsiadi sustain her youthful facade?
Just a Stone's Throw Away contains n 
wcll-choscn assortment of tunes, and 
features musicians from the jazz group 
Karma, Iiarlli Wind & Fine and Little Heat. 
Background vocals are provided by Maurice 
White of Laith Wind & Tiro. Dcniccc 
Williams. Lowell George of Little Teat and 
Linda Ronstadt. Valeric Carter's own voice 
is quite-worthy of the dignified comjjimy.'
The album begins with a rcrnak? of ihu
^tairsieps^soununJoTI^^^fn^Tr^Tie^
version benefits from a quieter arrange
ment by Little Feats Bill Payne and the 
sweet vocal combination of Carter on jcad 
inti D?Hiece Williams singing background.
 .   Jiarth Wind &. Fire provide ,a :bouncy 
background'on the Skip Scarborough rune 
So, So, Happy. The tuue begins with tinkly 
piano and murmurring voices, then jumps 
into joyous, brass spiked fhytluTi. The 
contrast between Jerry Peters' spirited 
instrumental arrangement and Carter's 
somewhat restrained vocals are verypleasant. Williams, an KWAF protege, lends 
a nicc babyish backup. Another tune,
City Lights, doesnt work as well. It is 
second-rate Karth Wind & Fire. While the 
group can pull of whispered, unintelligible 
lyrics and a droning dance beat. Carter 
,doesn't seem to have that power. Maurice.
White's screams, sassy brass and an acid 
soul" guitar help to make (he tune some
what listenable.
Ringing Daorbelh in the Rain is a short, 
gcnlle tunc with reggae-like percussion.
Here, most notably, her voice displays a background of piano and strings on Heartcombination of youthful sweetness und aches. The song, arranged by David 
inaturity.  Campbell, issparingly interspersed with
Carter sings powerfully over an elegant beautiful harmonics.
: FaceofAppaluchia.is a haunting country 
tune. Banjo, mandolin and guitars form.a crisp, distinct background for the lovely 
harmonics of the Lowell George-John 
Sebastian song.
Lillie Feat nearlydominates A 5ro/Jj3;;__ 
Throw Away. The arrangement of sus
tained organ and slide guitar, notes and. 
gospelly baritone voices are distinctly 
Little Feat, but Caricr does well vocalizing 
over the group's.supurb miisic. The vocal 
effects re similar to Ronstadls If You 
Love Me Let Me Know in that they offset z; 
strung female voice against solid baritones.
Cowboy Angei is slow, and romantic, 
interspersed with airy background vocals 
and the obligatory  .harmonica.' Caitcr. 
affects a convincing-twang, and her voicc 
.is at her best, .with a clear strong sensuousrtss and an even vibrato.
Perhaps the best song on the album is 
Hdik ta oine Some iviore, a masterpiece of 
melancholia. It accurately conveys the 
beauty of the dark and scary mood. The. 
lyrics arc simple, yet poetic: Parked 
outside is my blue coupe/ Interstate 58 
late Iwo-umvj tired aud dirty/ I'll be listen
ing to the juke box watching iiite turn to 
day/ The lights outside the tnickslop of 
this .-lonely, cafe/ And up above the door/
A neon sign keeps flashin/ Blue to red, red 
to green/ And back to blue sonic more." 
The convoluted instrumental mix of 
wailing sax, concert piano, electric piano 
and cymbals are-, sophistocated jazz. The 
lade outs leave you aching for more. Carter 
co-wrote the tunc with Lowell George and 
Uil! Payne.
In Just a Stoiie's Throw Away Valeric 
Carter seems In-be tui/ging at the apron 
strings of vai'iui producers. She really 
hasn't devc-iored a personal style.as lias 
iongsness Rorisia.U. I\'onclVic!c.<i. the
I this
listenift!? pleasure.

---------------------------------------------------

Apri I 19.197.7  TAR,TAN - Page 1 9
i SHERLOCK HOLMES GETS LOST IN FOG
-----------Guy conflict is HeV another Mr. Spock without the in* Whenever an evil doer, mentions it, poses
- sixth sense quality given are frozen and I expect to hear a har.lt
opening Interlude into'the first scene s black suits. . passing an unopened letter across his it Ikould be tarried all the way through in
setting of a drawing room foreshadows Coming oil as loo choreographed, forehead and knowing what's in it or order lo be effective. The realistic and de.
how the rest of the play will proceed, nearly all the action looks to be a pat being able to tell Watson at a quick glance tailed touches not only do not (it, but
clouded. routine, unnatural, Sherlock is too stiff, that hes put on 7H pounds, is going a bit they detract from the stylized quality used
The diiector, Tony Tanner, couldnt Hjs. voice keeps ..at the same monotone too far. His keen observation gets to be elsewhere.
 roSS  v t0 1gtCal' S"',,0,! nm,C   0nl 5 Efftrflve anTJhe fogwer'
"'STo?I; couldnt have been kept up through the
Ycl he doesn't enlcr until late in the firstp--as&r,a5,5
f/J The set loote .as though were taken 
out or.ditatty Batman aniH?obinshow.
nearing a quality or "Ccc. golly whiz, 
Sherlock! and Holy magnifying, glass! 
1 was waiting for Zap! Pow! and Z.owie! 
to be flashed on the stage.  -KURT KSZNAR IN A SCENE FROM "'SHERLOCK HOLMES
COMING
SOON
LUMI HLL
APRIL'29  8s30 P.M.
Ew1,rebVOil
THETRACKS"
V .rrvx [
emmrsil* mmwmm, 
fjfarj^f,u
ASCENl 
OFMAN
Wher ret Room,Skibo
SRIWG YOUR LUNCH AND A l=RIE(0DFilm times:' 11-30 & 12=30
i-U t'u C -  il
26 The Long ChiScBiocd

---------------------------------------------------

The 1977 issue of
Camegie-Meions Magazine ofthe Arts
IS NOW ON SALE AT:CMU Bookstore Entropy Skibo Baker HallListening Post (Stiadysktel Pitt Bookstore
imm
LUNCHEON SPECIALSS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PMIt
TARTAN Grill SpecialsT*-
WEDNESDAY April 20th 
. Tripie.Dccfccr, Fries . 
Medium Soft Drink .........90 -
THURSDAY April 21st 
Wafer Steak; Pries,
- Medium Soft Drink................. .............99
FRIDAY April 22nd
Grilled. Cheese, Medium Soft Drink...............55
MONDAY April 2Bth
Two Hot Dogs, Medium Soft Drink ...77
TUESDAY April 26th
FJsli n Chips, Medium Soft Drink .....................95

AH remaining yearbook payments will be 
collected at Skibo Information Desk this week
(April 19-22$ The amours f due is .Jdd The 
thistle will b& RDH sale for those whohaw *fB~ 
pm'shm fkSQirs* Seniors .0ddG Mil others 
. FBBd (N& deposits . accepted} Any deposits 
not paid irs Fnn s*F* h !O forfeitedQ
I*

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTSTHEATRE
soprano;. Dean Rhodus, tenor: Theodor 
Uppman. baritone, and'.the Mendelssohn 
i medley of Cole Porter tunes.
Although The "Pops" series is sold-c 
McKeesport Little Theater conclude* its tQ series subscribers for the fourth cc
16th -Season..w:th -themusical, WHERE'S cutive.season,'tickets :are often return
CHARLEY. Performances are scheduled  to the box office for resale. For tick
every Friday and Saturday at 0:30 PM with "form
Sunday performances at 7:30 PM begin-, 
ing Friday, April 22. and runni 
weekend -through May 15. Fi 
Nation, please call 673-'! 100.
n phone (412) 281-5000.
Trumpet i
MUSIC
The Point Park CoJIcge-Singers will pre
sent their Spring Concert Wednesday. 
. April 20 at 7:30 PM in the college student 
lounge. The event is free and open to the 
public.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY "POPS" 
concerts April 22, 24 and .25 highlight 
tunes by an unforge.table American comograms' Friday and SunMonday at 7:30 PM 
conductor Thomas
HARRY JAMES and his 
Swinging Band - make a rare appearance 
here on . April 27 at 8 PM., sharing the 
pops event with WOODY HERMAN'S 
THUNDERING HERD. The trumpet star 
enhances Heinz Hall's "Cavalcade of Great 
Bands."
The "Cavalcade" continues in May with 
two more band concerts featuring the most 
danceable, singable music of the 30's, 40's, 
and 50's. GUY LOMBARDO and his 
Royal Canadians make a return visit on 
May 12 at 6 PM to the joy of his many 
fans'who missed his sold-out concert in 
Heinz Hall last December.
Tickets for each event are on sale at 
the Heinz Hall box office and ticket 
counters in Kgufmann's, Horne's. Gimbels, 
Sears and National Record Marts. For 
group discount rates,phone Mrs. Kathy 
Meyer at (412) 281-3105.
Beginning on April .16 and continuing 
through April 30, KINGPITCKER GAL
LERY will present an exhibition of.paint-. 
ings by HENRY KOERNER;
Robert Little will discuss ways that prints 
can be made from natural objects at 3:00 
on Sunday, April 24, at the Arts and Crafts 
Center'at Fifth and Shady Avenues. The 
event is sponsored by the Pittsburgh Print 
Group.
Robert Little is a well-known naturalist, 
artist, end teacher. He has exhibited locally 
at the Hunt Institute for Botanical, Docu
mentation and the Three Rivers Arts Festi
val, as well as several one-man shows.
The author of the book. Nature Printing, 
Robert Little was one of two American 
artists included in a volume of 152 works 
of selected Gyotaku (nature prints) pub
lished in Tokyo.MISC.
BaaVZ-P bv vusc, vurchtr^
hand artistry, extrasensory perception and 
predictions of the futiire, will be presented 
at Duquesiie University Thrusday, April 21 
at 8.PM in the Union Ballroom. The show, 
sponsored by the Union Program Board, is 
free and open to the public..
The International Poetry Forum will 
present NANA MOUSKOURI and the 
Olympians on Friday, April 22.at0:OOPM 
in Carnegie Music Hall. This will be Miss 
Mouskouri's fourth appearance at the 
Music Hall for.the Poetry Forum. Born in 
Athens, Greece, she began her musial 
studies at the Conservatory in Athens in 
1951. After studying classical music for 
eight-years she became interested in jazz. 
In 1963 Miss Mouskouri left Greece to 
make a stage and recording career centered 
in France.. She became known in the 
United States when HARRY BELAFONTE
. Tickets are available at Kaufmanns, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union and the 
Poetry Forum office in Carnegie Library, 
Oakland. Tickets are $9.00. $7.50 and 
$4.50. Season subscribers are entitled to 
a 25% discount on one ticket. For more 
information, call 621-9893.
MU
HOLIDAY NNI--PARK&AY 
EAST
915 Brinton Road 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15221
Telephone (412) 2Q7-276B
Special dseufied rooirst s-isies for | 
CAAli radlBJOifes Suest Kb@-fcs ! 
reste  $2.C3 I

---------------------------------------------------

Page22- TARTAN ~ApriJA9..tS77.
AIRPORI '77: WOKS I IN SERIES OF THREE
When a sequel fails - to Jive up to the 
movie it is based on. the second attempt 
can be looked on as simply misguided. 
However, when filmmakers persist in 
producing a series of disappointing follow 
ups. their actions must be considered an
Such is the argument against the makers 
of Airport. The popularity of the first 
movie undoubtedly warranted the making 
of a second. Unfortunately, the resulting 
joke, entitled Airport 75, was mors of a 
parody than an extension of its namesake. 
Even though it was a qualitative bomb, its 
box office succcss was enough to prompt 
Uie making of still another in the series. 
Tlie latest film. Airport 77, is not as 
uhintentionallyfunny as its predecessor. 
Rather, its main Haw is in its predictabi
lity, a result of using the same basic fromat 
oncc loo often.
A certain image has become associated 
with any movie called Airport, and those 
responsible seem to fear the consequences 
of tampering with this look. Their reluc
tance io try anything different makes each 
ncw.film more of a revised copy of the old, 
causing the repeated characters and sub
plots to seem hackneyed.
The characters arc. in fact, good examples 
of just how stagnant the series has become. 
Aside from changed names and laces, the 
passengers have remained basically the 
same in all three films. Jack Lemmon 
is simply the 77 version of Dean Marlin 
and Charlton Heston, lie is the older 
pilot in love with a younger woman. 
Brenda Vaccaro is the '71 version of 
Jacqueline Bisset and Karen Black. A blind 
piano player has been substituted for Helen
Reddy's guitar strumming nun and In the 
same manner, new actors have been 
brought in to fill (he quota of 
endangered children and VIPs on board.
The dilemma these passengers in Airport 
77 face is the result of an attempted, art 
theft. A plane full of expensive paintings is 
headed for a museum opening in Florida. 
The villains plan to fly low under radar as
beneath ii
The fight for survival is on. If one is 
familiar with the calculated and melo
dramatic Airport game plan, the fate of 
each passenger can be. determined by using 
simple logjc: If the blind piano player dies, 
botit small children must be rescued; if the 
piano player lives, one child and one airline. 
VIP are expendable. Of course the cardinal
they enter the Bermuda Triangle. Once off rule of this
the screens, they expcct to be counted as 
just another mysterious disappearance in 
that area. All is going well for them until, 
as the prophetic music forewarns, (hey hit 
something above the water. Unable to 
regain altitude the plane ditehcs, not just 
onto the water's surface, but it sinks
'al game is that Ms.
Vaccaro has the unbeatable odds. After all, 
what true melodrama could resist ending 
with the hero rescuing his girl and carrying 
her off In his arms?
Introductions of the j 
rushed over, if they are given at all. Even 
th bona fide movie sta?s, who get a few 
.more minutes on. camera than their TV 
counterparts; are given only enough back-. 
ground to enable the'audience to label 
them "good guy or bad guy.
This general lack of .concern with the 
characters only goes to show that the .real 
star of the movie is hot meant, to be any
one in the cast, but rather the special 
effects man. Crasliing waves and other 
effects axe reminiscent of Irwin Allen. 
Likewise the planes interior has been 
decorated in such a comfortable style that . 
it is a shame to see th water destroy it. 
Definitely no secret is made of the fact 
that it Is a big budget all the way, from the 
costumes by Edith Head to the appearance 
of U.S. Navy vessels with their mass of 
rescue equipment.
. ' Extravagant disaster fiJmi are not as novel, 
ns they may have been when the original 
Airport was made. However, what starled 
as a commendable adaption of Arthur 
Haleys novel has degresscd into a watery 
sentimentality, leaving just enough gore 
and violence to assure the audience the 
movie is not something they could see on 
their television sets. It surpasses predict
ability and, given time, it reaches absolute 
boredom.
Perhaps it wouldnt be too unreasonable 
to think the people involved with Airport 
could channel their energies Into something 
more creative than a biennial recycling of 
the same old material. However, with an 
audience willing to accept their present 
efforts and a fortune to be made from 
continuing the farce, what incentive do 
they have to try anything better?
I Min ni minium] iiiiiiiiiiiii
TG!FTGF
TGSF KICKS OFF SPRING CARNIVAL '77 THURSDAY,
9,7V nTHE FAMILY of eve"
STARTING A, Jodd OH ,i1 IWIDWAV
Aid host April S9fk
"IMS SfFiS  SPKIN" * 
CHilSTOPHirS StYI" ami BOB McKEAG AN' FUN'
i EAlAROOftfS 8-12 
pirn AMissiem
ftiuas sr ArtGale yLrtvmsi
fair

---------------------------------------------------

AVIBECSIiCW
with
Robert Klein NFL Footbal 1 Follies Reefer Madness Stevie Wonder
atTHE SKIBO LOBBY
Tues,!9 thru Sat 23
run continuously from 
900am till 12:OOmidnight

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSSWEEPSTAKESPKA BTP, SN Repeat
CIA Ready for Upset
Note: The Compubookic is a little green 
gnome who lives under Panther Hollow 
Bridge and who comes out once a year to 
make comments and predictions on the 
buggy races.
Yes, once again ! return, buggy nurds, with 
oniy the finest in pragmatic prognostica
tions to deal upon you. As you might 
recall I had a whale of t time last year 
picking the order of finish and as a result 
I have just recuperated in time for this 
years predictions. Due to the late start 
of the races coupled with the late;dalc or 
carnival I will predict that the race record 
of 2:19.3 will be bettered this year and 
probably by rnore titan one of the top 
six finishes.
Alpha Tau Omegn-'Wilh most their 
brothers venturing into more virgin fields, 
the Z-fTien of ATO have intended to 
imp"ort a few. On a more serious note we 
see the ATOs dying to dispute their longproven axiom-heavier objects do roll 
faster than light ones. Listen for those 
hissing wheels on Friday and take note 
or their timc-it should be a shock.
Sigma Nu-TIic zoo will eliminate hill 3 
in pipc-drcams and a cry oncc again will 
arise "If only wc had a push team" (or 
the Butcher's tune Whatever happened 
to B. Brown?)
Beta TUcia Pi-The bring back the
Ah, who can defeat the greatest push team 
evciy assembled -Who hasnt?!? The Betas 
will have to hope that their jets arc strong 
enough to overcome the deep water they 
ate treudJiiR. If only they were like fish. 
Maybe you wont have to write them offchey have a Bic-dick! (Seriously. 011c viei llie pasi 10 years tells die Beta
Sigma Alpha Epsilon-SAE won a trophy 
for their sweepstakes'booth last year. It 
may not win a race but it.sure looks good. 
The SAEs are going to puB a shift(y) and 
try a Kong like effort to pull this one out. 
Who knows? After all this years races are 
a brand new ballgamc.
Kappa Sigma-Kg Is still trying to be a 
fraternitythis Includes entering sweeps
takes -losing miserablyand celebrating 
their fine loss with their 'little sisters.. 
Seriously, they've stolen most of their 
ideas from Phi Kap-why dont they either 
perfect them or steal some worthwhileidCH5.
C. I. A.The battle cry remains Harry Ho! 
As CIA combines forces spiritually with 
TX. They will roll-they have & push team. 
Hus is the 5-star A 1 pick to choke this 
year even though they have, an Italian 
Stallion of thejr own.. .But they could do 
it all.. .even win.
Fj Kappa Alpha-As wc slam the hams and 
cross the varied pcdlcrs of life some strange 
vision must stain even the shiniest of 
hustling harps in an attempt to reach Uiat 
dcnovo of succcss-a third consecutive win 
for the brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha. The 
chance of this dark occurcnce is zero. 
Rather one could expect a plague of botu
lism, Someone had better beat them.outright or the cry of the 
be Dick-me.i) will
oiy.)
Tlieta-Wiih :i Uni 
ilwvi from Phi Kap occ 
sweetest looking (andsnie 
ainpus. As a matter offn<
might win. To interpret this we can only 
say Cixni if hey would spend less time in 
the gym playing frisbec with Mickey Mouse 
shirts on, they might improve on their 11 tlx 
place standing.
As-for the others. . . Dream about it!!!
1. Pi Kappa Alpha A
2.BelaThciaPi 
CIA
Buggy Design
.by RaySavlpiyDesign Is perhaps the most important 
aspect of sweepstakes.' The buggies of 
1920 were virtually rolling crates." 
By the late 20s the buggies resembled 
ears. It was in the early 30s that 
Theta Pi introduced a wooden frame 
buggy covered with airplane silk, placing 
emphasis on light buggies, with minimal 
(nsideration given to aerodynamics. In 
1937, the designs included three-wheeled 
buggies and drivers in thepronc"posUion. 
After the war, technology played a lar&e 
role: Pi Kappa Alpha's torpedo-oniviieels, constructed of fiberglass over a 
steel frame, set a precedent in buggy design 
Phi Kap brought out the first unibody 
(ruction in J949.
Today, the important criteria ir 
ing ai. buggy is in 2ll of the individual 
aspects of engineering and human inter
faces and their composition into one enti
ty. The ideal of this entity is to possess 
qualiiites of weightlessness, wind resis* 
tancelcssness, and surface frictionlessness. The refinement of these aspects oc
curs through the learning experience of 
developing an idea into reality. By means 
ofcalculations, experimentations, successes, 
and failures, it bccomcs a direct applica
tion of classroom skills. The results of 
these refinements have produced the finest 
buggies in concept, functionality, and 
craftmanship ever to be attained In the 
history of buggy. But design is a conti
nuous prccss,'and with the advance of 
new technologies, the evolution of buggy 
designs has no limit.
1-------------------
! it*5 CmSi;i
P; 
> 1MIIT g lim*
**
^ .* 1
P - Camegie^Mellon Uniyprsuy-0&mi-f?iMgs |
/""ir^\ i  nq wraerinq
information
jgmiiour
i siurs.
is tsrsrag svem 
ssit sf $10.00

---------------------------------------------------

April 4977.jTARTAN 25
Concrete Canoe Sweep All Races
by Mary * edit must go to the members of the Oiga.Befcrt the recent April ! concrete/canoe who^iitHwo tdiTUS-nionthsprerace i Charlotte, North Carolina, CMU was P*tii\g. ihecanoe. Preparation entailed refurvirtually unknown to the 15(?) major billing last years mold, designing a light* 
schools attending the event. However, when w**8kt concret mix . to provide added 
it cam time to rac, the muffled comments strength and'flexibility, and placing and 
such ss they're from Camegie-what? finishing the actual canoe. CMU has made a 
University soon gave way to cries of 5660,111 larger cnoe for its next ruce at 
Yankee go home when we proved the Bucknell University. Future races include 
excellence of our team by sweeping all four Princeton on April 22 and, depending on 
of our races. CMU defeated teams from available funds, perhaps a Toronto race at 
Florida, Alabama, S. Carolina State, and the the beginning of May. .
University of Norlh Carolina (the sponsoring ^ is evident that the CMU concrete cano# 
school) in mens, womens and faculty races, team has intentions of capturing trophies 
John Fotd and Tony DiGioia took first whatever it goes-and it probably will, 
place in the 100-yard sprinl. Ford-teamed judging from the first race of (he season, 
again with Si3n Diamond to defeat the -bul, perhaps less evident is the behind-thecompetition by 5 seconds in the slalom race, scenes organization; civil engineering knowLynn RtLer.AudroyGoIdstiji.'KimMcCalIa, how, and cnlhuslasn? which has been the 
and Judy Parker raced in 2 canoes and tied driving force behind the success of the team, 
for first pl.es in the womens race. The final U hss i! mtod SP"WCMU victory was the faculty race, in which W1*m . hod participating at
Red Whittaker and  Dunlap made tlie best Vf1 otlc ?l,ribulc ur, vict0W 10 .time in any division Yankee ingenuity. The CMU team attriJim Puder and Stan Diiniond have indeed bu,'s  sr'i"1 and hard w'kAccording 
begun to reap the benefits of their '77 nor 10 Rd wh",ak. " s fulty adviOrganization. The rigorous training sorlhrc rc ^ lo1 of teams that take this 
simulated n at Panther Hollow Pond have s'n0Sly;,We Just 
certainly paid off thus far. However, 
actual race victories are not the only 
plishments which CMU should be pri 
The CMU concrete
tniclion at the Charlo:
Women Netters Win
by GentontorriaonC-MU team got stong performances from
everyone on the tam in Iheir only action
... The .. Camegie-Mellon . Universityduring the spring semester. The women s
Vomens varsity tconisteam, wontheir-1m pleys their ason in the.fall, except.
Chatham meet .by the scote of 5*1. Thefor one springmatch with Chatham.
SINGLES C-MUCHATHAMWINNERSCORE
1. Robin KlarSusie SilversteinChatham6-2,7-5
2. Ellen BernsteinLisa StewartC-MU6-1,60
3; Denise RyanMaria MorlellC-MU64,6-2
4. Diane WilkElaine LongC-MU3-6,6-1,6-1
5. Karen WiederhomAnn MendlowilyC-MU. 6-2, 6-3
j. 1 j? Rted _____Nancy 06slerC-MU6-4.6-2
For Free Brochure - Write
THECOMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKUND STATION 
Pittsburgh, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
' Chatham 40-7. The C-MU team erca:
stolen bases. The Chatham catchcr wa: 
able 10 throw any of the C-MU runner 
out. The Chatham catcher got so fms 
trated, site did not even see Join Jawclai 
when she stole homo. Ch.ith.nm could no
jpyO/f:/
 '  [[S '
pmsrfCM wtHsfSxmSE GETTING ALOT OF CALLS WITH THE NEW Lfl PiSTAKCS 
KSCOMT RATES  EVii'i&S  dft UG-Hi'S a si ttfEKEiB$ CM Btftlr&fECT I
pilClHI
Saus and (lie strong throw 
Yos{. The C-MU le 
fast pitch softball (
Morris on Saturday.p.' fifi
of C;r Pat
/r'k'7s *[cn tfc-1; Cta F - *
fcvnings 5 P.M.-11 P.M Sunday thru t Nirjhts-H P.M. 0 A.M. Evcrynigii! c-skencis All Day Ssurdiy Until 5 P.M.
u s.
 S1ISE  jo 18 THE MSEC Ok L* 1iOfy. Li*f. UH et 6
S^iiaaaiiBaoi^Kccpj'ii

---------------------------------------------------

Page.26 ->-ARTNApril .19, .1977.
MEN'S TENNIS WINby Oerdei Werrtw 90, in favor of CMU. the CMU coach,
The CMU mens tennis team won * close Mr*. Russell, Is optimistic about the teams 
.conference match with Ihe Thiel Tomcats chances this year at the PAC tournament, 
on Wednesday. The final score was S-4. despite the fact that CMU will not rcThe team record Is now 3-2, which ceive favorable seeding in the FAC tour* 
Includes their fall matches. Their con*, nament In May because of the scheduling ' 
feienc record is now 1-0. The CMU team difficulties caused by the short amount of
Is much improved over last years 
since the CMU vs. Thiel score last ye. 
SINGLES CMU
1. Chuck Carrol!
2. Gary Kemeny
3. Marc Silver
4. Ralph Peters
5. Paul Gehman
6. Mike Straub
time after Spring Break-In which 1 
their matches.WINNER SCORE 
Thiel 6-2,.6-4 
Thiel 1-6,6-3,6-2 
CMU 6-3,2-6,7-5 
Thiel 6-3,.6-3 
CMU 4-6; 6-4,6-1 
.CMU 6-2,5-1
THILL 
Ron Smith .
Alex Douger 
Chris Moore 
Neil Leroy 
Greg Flinch-Baugh 
Shiraz.Domrlgar
DOUBLES
1. Chuck Carroll-Gary Kemeny Moore-Leroy CMU , 6-3,6-l
2. Paul Gehman-Marc Silver Smith-Flinch Baugh CMU 46,63,62
3. Ralph Pcters-Davc Chandler DomrigarDouger , Thiel 1-6,6-4,
)ot This Down <
The Intramurel All-Stir 'Basketbill The l.M, men's foil meet was held on
Team final results are as follow#: First Tuesday, April 12. Pat Dunster took first
team: Guards Duquette from TO and ..place with a 30 record. The three other 
Senloski from GSIA, Forwards Mirusic ftncers tied with. 1*2 records, but Mall 
from ATO and Robinson from Reality, Bevan took second, place, Alan Cuteri took
and Center Parker from th Celcs. Second ihird place, .andJoe Piernock took fourth 
team: Guards BinriieTrom PKA'and White p]Ke oii Indicators, from SUPA Stars, Forwards Faurie from ' . ,, ; ..<GSIA and Mauaro from ATO, The I.M. womyis Toil meet was MdV
and Center Strosnider from GSIA. Jay 0 pn*y. *.15; Karen Almgerbe.ltDuquetie from ATO was named the Met Matjask? 54 m. the bout for the
Valuable Player. _____ first place trophy.
Pennsylvania Residents:
Need Support for Your 
education?
The Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agerv 
cy (PHEAA). may be able tc help finone* 
education with a state grant.
Obtain an application from:
1. The Financial Aid Office at C-MU
2. By writing PHEAA, Towne House, Harrisburg, 
Po. 17102
Apply No Loter Than May 1, 1977
THE WUJS INSTITUTE
r development town, 
rtnpnrieslonalyoreon&iu* The Wqvid Union of ih tri Aizd
d bt <hc beginning of your
ay piji tend to the tbovt hDgcty

---------------------------------------------------

 
' April 19. 1977 - TARTAN ^ Page 27
\:)ot This Too
C-MU is trying lo have a Womens 
ck meet with California Stale College of 
Pa., which might take place on Wednesday, 
Aprii 27 at 4:30. If you are interested, 
please see as soon as possible Miss Fisk in 
Room 1 of the Gym or Gordon Morrison 
at the TARTAN. Please list the events you 
would be interested in trying. If you want 
to participate, please let us know quickly. 
It wc do not get enough people, there is 
a possibility of having Wednesday, April 27 
as a possible date for a womens intramural
The womens field hockey, volleyball, 
basketball, and fencing teams and the 
mens fencing' team have an important 
: meeting at 4:30 on Thursday in Miss Fisks 
office concerning the Athletic Depart
ment Banquet. If you can not attend 
this meeting, see Miss Fisk before Friday to . 
let her know whether or not you want to. 
go to the banquet on Monday, May 2.
 All varsity teams should see their 
coaches or team captain regarding me airletic Department Banquet that will be on 
Monday, May 2. Reservations must be 
made by this Friday, April 21 if you want 
to attend. 
The I.M. 3 person 3 weapon fencing 
meet was won by the team of Victor 
Brennan, Cordon Morrison, and Karen Azingtr. The team consisting of Avrani 
Scheiner, Shaun Morrisey, and Joe Piernock took second place, while the team of 
Debby Tueriauli, Jenny Willis, and Lenora 
 Matjasko took third place.
George Harvey was named to the 
NCAA Division III AU America Basketball 
Team last week. It is the first time in 
many years that anyone from C-MU has 
gained All American staLus for any sport. 
(Possibly 1938 wa* the last tune.)
The Intramutal Banquet will not be on 
Monday, May 2 as originally scheduled. 
Instead, it will be held the next day. 
Tuesday^ May 3 at 6:00.
- The, Intramural softball finals were 
:{*Iyed on Sunday. MDBC-Again won the 
major league finals, when they beat BTP 
12-10. The intermediate league was won 
by the Clams, who beat Hainmeischlag by 
the score of 10-6. The minor league 
champions are the Shrinks. They beat the 
Tech House Chicks 6-7. The womens 
softball league was won byThrce-D. They 
beat Tri-Delt 14-13 in 8 innings.
i* to ace the courses
It finally comes down to commitment. 
When you dont like a course, its hard to excel. The class gets 
tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your work 
suffers. And so do your grades. 
Compare that with the courses you really believe in. 
You care more. You 117 more. And without even noticing, you just 
naturally do better. 
Its true in school Its true outside of school. 
For example, we believe theres just one way to b 
Busch beer. The natural way. With natural ingredients. 
Natural carbonation. Natural ageing. 
We believe thats the best way to brew a beer. 
And when you believe in what youre ^ z 
doing, you just naturally do it better.J ---------iJilSlCtl uusuu'Aitu vm_ LiiUfA yuuJ
B*v,
Whcnyoa belie; in what ycure doing,
You just naturally do it better.

---------------------------------------------------

WITHSDC
Thursday, April 21SQUARE DANCE
8-11 pm_______
Friday, April 22
Otf '/V if ' FREE FOOD 
npag1 o10 WITH CMU ID12 noon - 2 pm__
Saturday, April 23GONG SHOW
,HL ^uA&i PHIZfcc
T
IfMCl ..FriF
p%p &*'<> 11 
SRV/ir i ' i~
,fc. i 5 (Si CIV i 1 * HfcU
