Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
August 19, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 1
SONIYA SHAH
Junior Staffwriter 
MADELYN GLYMOUR 
News Editor
Longtime University Center ?xture S Seor has been 
replaced by a different restaurant, El Gallo de Oro, which 
hopes to cater to the Tex-Mex 
taste buds of many students.
Kim Abel, the director of 
Housing and Dining at Carnegie Mellon, said in an email, 
There were signi?cant requests for a Tex/Mex concept. 
The desire was to create a 
concept that would have high 
quality, fresh, and healthy 
food with providing customers the versatility of adding 
the exact ingredients and toppings to ?t their taste [sic].
Abel said that El Gallo de 
Oro will have a very different 
menu from S Seor, in response to what Housing and 
Dining sees as students desired changes. We wanted a 
location that would truly focus 
on Mexican and Southwestern 
dishes and ?avors, Abel said 
in the email.
The menu may be different, 
but El Gallo de Oro is maintained by the same vendor as 
S Seor. According to Abel, 
Housing and Dining chose to 
stay with the vendor because 
of its expertise and culinary 
background with authentic 
Mexican food. The owners 
of El Gallo de Oro have, however, hired a new staff and 
implemented a new training 
program.
Although the student body 
at large has yet to try El Gallo 
de Oros food, student reaction 
to the announcement of the 
change has been mixed. Some 
students, like sophomore information systems major Carrie Weintraub, welcome the 
switch from S Seor.
I think its great that the 
university was in tune with 
the sketchy reputation that 
S Seor had and is trying to 
better accommodate students 
wants. Time will tell if they 
did it successfully, Weintraub 
said.
Other students are happy 
to see more healthy food at 
Carnegie Mellon. I always encourage change. Although the 
name is a bit obscure, I feel like 
El Gallo de Oro will provide a 
new and healthier option to 
CMUs campus, sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major Audrey Alpizar 
said.
Junior biomedical and 
chemical engineering double 
major Christine Sidoti, however, is more nostalgic about 
S Seor. 
I think a lot of people 
will miss S Seors late-night 
chicken ?nger runs, Sidoti 
said. Well have to see what 
the new place has to offer!
Adios, S Seor!: CMU replaces University Center staple
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
Electrical and computer 
engineering professor Vijayakumar Bhagavatula has been 
named the interim dean of the 
College of Engineering. Kumar, who is also the associate 
dean of Faculty and Graduate 
Affairs, is taking over from 
former Dean Pradeep Khosla. 
Khosla left Carnegie Mellon 
in August to take a position as 
chancellor of the University of 
California in San Diego.
That came about relatively quickly and somewhat 
unexpectedly, said University 
Provost Mark Kamlet, who appointed Kumar on behalf of 
himself and University President Jared Cohon. Kumar is 
aware of that timetable, and 
is graciously willing to stay as 
interim dean until a new dean 
is appointed.
Kumar came to Carnegie 
Mellon as a Ph.D. student in 
1977, and joined the Electrical 
and Computer Engineering 
faculty in 1982. During his 30 
years as a faculty member, Kumar has taught many courses, 
but he said that his favorite 
was Signals and Systems.
It involves challenging 
mathematics, Kumar said. 
It uses a lot of complex numbers, complex variables, and 
these are not always the most 
appealing things to students, 
so the challenge is to make 
the subject interesting and 
providing information on why 
we need to know this stuff. Its 
challenging, but if you do it 
well, at the end of the semester, you can see students go 
on to more advanced courses 
in this area, and thats always 
satisfying to see.
Between his work as interim dean and his ongoing 
research responsibilities, Kumar is a busy man. I still have 
10 Ph.D. students that work 
with me. I still have a very 
thriving research program in 
signal processing.... I intend 
to maintain that research productivity, he said.
Andres Rodriguez-Perez, 
one of Kumars Ph.D. students, 
said that he is privileged to 
have him as an adviser.
Rumor has it that he is 
the best adviser in the department, Rodriguez-Perez 
said. He makes every student 
feel important, and he is very 
committed to their research 
projects. He makes, I think, all 
of us feel as though were his 
only student.
Rodriguez-Perez said that 
Kumar is always available to 
see his students, despite his 
busy schedule. He seems to 
have an open-door policy, 
where whenever we had a 
question outside of our regular meeting time, we can just 
go and ask him. I imagine that 
might change a little now that 
hes the dean, but we will see.
Kamlet said that Kumar 
is a strong choice for interim 
dean. Hes a very straightforward person, very easy to get 
along with. Very sharp, very 
smart. Somebody who I think 
all the parts of the engineering 
school will feel very comfortable with. Hes hardworking, 
very ef?cient, and a very nice 
guy. Hes a real gentleman.
According to Kamlet, the 
search for a permanent replacement for former Dean 
Khosla will soon be underway. 
A search committee headed 
by civil and environmental 
engineering professor Jacobo 
Bielak will research candidates for the position.
That committee will be in 
position to hit the ground running as soon as fall semester 
starts, Kamlet said. Those 
search committees do their 
thing, and then they bring to 
the president and myself their 
recommendations, and we 
take it from there. That process will take several months.
In the meantime, Kumar 
will take on one more role for 
the university he says he loves.
Ive taught 10 different 
courses and graduated close 
to 40 Ph.D. students, Kumar 
said. Ive been on the faculty for 30 years. Ive been involved in teaching, research, 
and administration, and enjoyed all of them. Its been a 
very supportive place for me 
personally.
Kumar named interim dean of CITInterim CFA dean 
gets job security
EMILY DOBLER
Editor-in-Chief
In early July, Dan Martin 
was appointed as dean of the 
College of Fine Arts. Martin 
has served as CFAs interim 
dean since June 2010  after 
former Dean Hilary Robinson 
stepped down  which made 
stepping into the full position 
an easy transition for him.
I felt at home stepping 
into of?ce, he said. Between 
his experience as a faculty 
member in the School of 
Drama and his background in 
nonpro?t theater, he said hes 
used to handling the responsibilities of CFAs dean.
Martin was appointed 
dean after a formal search 
was conducted by University 
Provost Mark Kamlet.
Martin came to Carnegie 
Mellon in 1992 to direct the 
Master of Arts Management 
graduate degree, and has 
been involved in several other arts collaboration projects 
since, including the Master of 
Entertainment Industry Management and Technology in 
the Arts. On a personal level, 
his son recently graduated 
from the School of Music, so 
he has a strong connection 
with students in CFA.
He described his role as 
helping each of CFAs ?ve 
schools develop and grow by 
improving alumni relations, 
marketing the schools to attract funding and outside talent, developing new courses, 
and working with faculty, 
school heads, and administrators.
During his time as interim 
dean, Martin updated CFAs 
main website and oversaw 
the appointment of an interim head of the School of 
Music.
The heads are so involved 
in making their schools the 
best they can be, he said. 
My role is to look further 
ahead.
Peter Cooke, the head of 
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University
Interim CFA Dean Dan Martin has been appointed permanent dean.
Courtesy of Vijayakumar Bhagavatula
Newly-named interim Dean of the College of Engineering Vijayakumar Bhagavatula has been at Carnegie 
Mellon for over 30 years. Over the course of his career, hes taught 10 courses, graduated almost 40 Ph.D. 
students, and been involved with the university as a student, faculty member, and administrator.See DEAN, A3
FORUM
Political ads bend truth too far  A7
PILLBOX
Best bites in Pittsburgh  B6
SCITECH
Implant could restore vision  A4
Welcome to Orientation week, Carnegie Mellon Class of 2016+
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Housing and Dining has replaced S Seor with El Gallo de Oro, a restaurant operated by the same vendor, but with a different staff and menu.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  August 19, 2012
CHRISTA HESTER
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER
Editor-in-Chief
This special issue of The 
Tartan represents the ?rst of 
many more issues that you, 
the class of 2016+, will open 
during your time at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Our staff put this issue 
together with you in mind, 
in which you will ?nd what 
we feel is some of the most 
important information for 
?rst-years to know, as well as 
tips and hints about how to 
get the most out of your time 
in Pittsburgh and at Carnegie 
Mellon.
We provide a glimpse of 
upcoming Orientation week 
events, including a welcome 
letter from your Head Orientation Counselors, to help 
you choose from among the 
many opportunities happening during the week.
We hope this overview 
will help you navigate your 
way through a great ?rst 
week at Carnegie Mellon.
In our News section, weve 
included recent changes to 
the campus community and 
pro?led new school deans so 
you can be up to date on all 
campus happenings.
You will ?nd articles about 
the latest innovations and research projects coming from 
our own students and faculty 
in our Science and Technology section.
The Forum section details 
our staff members opinions 
on current events, from Chik?l-A CEOs anti-gay marriage 
stance to the mudslinging nature of the 2012 presidential 
campaigns advertisements. 
It also includes the Editorial Board section, the of?cial 
voice of The Tartan.
In Sports, you can catch 
up with Carnegie Mellons 
sports teams  whether at 
the varsity level or the many 
club sports  as they gear up 
for the upcoming season.
In Pillbox  the arts and 
culture section  we provide 
a guide to some of Carnegie 
Mellons quirky and unusual 
traditions, a complete etiquette guide to life at Carnegie Mellon, and a detailed 
map of Pittsburghs many 
neighborhoods.
These articles provide 
you with a crash course in 
Pittsburgh culture and the 
citys hot spots, useful to both 
newcomers and Steel City natives.
This issue is not meant to 
summarize everything you 
will ever learn about Carnegie Mellon or Pittsburgh; 
rather, it is meant to be an 
introduction, to pique your 
interest in this upcoming college experience.
Our hope is that all these 
snapshots of life at Carnegie 
Mellon will add up to give 
you a fuller picture of what 
you can plan on experiencing in the next four (or ?ve) 
years.
But the truth is, weve 
barely hit the tip of the iceberg.
As your student-run newspaper, The Tartan is committed to presenting you with 
the most important and relevant news on campus every 
week. 
If you want to put faces to 
the names youve seen in this 
issue, join our staff at noon 
this Saturday at the Fence for 
free barbecue and music.
And, as always, feel free 
to keep reading The Tartan in 
print and online.
Corrections & Clari?cations 
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
About this issue
Carnegie Mellon statistics 
professor Jay Kadanes book, 
Principles of Uncertainty, won 
the International Society for 
Bayesian Analysis DeGroot 
Prize.
Kadanes book attempts 
to explain Bayesian statistics 
and mathematics. This book 
addresses how to think about 
uncertainty, Kadane said in 
the books preface.
 It is addressed to those 
who want to know why. 
I have chosen a particular 
point of view, the subjective 
Bayesian view, because this 
approach has best survived 
the tumult of doing statistical 
applications and worrying 
about the meaning behind 
the calculations.
Jay Kadanes book ... 
carries out two fundamental 
dimensions of Jays career 
in statistics: the subjective 
Bayesian foundations of 
the ?eld of statistics and 
the critical importance that 
statistical thinking and 
methods must play in a 
wide range of application 
areas, said John Lehoczky, 
dean of the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, in a university press 
release.
The press release quotes 
Christian P. Robert, professor 
of statistics at Universit 
Paris-Dauphine, as saying, 
It represents the legacy he 
[Kadane] wants to leave 
for the future. And this is a 
legacy Jay can certainly be 
proud of!
The DeGroot Prize, 
awarded every two years to 
a statistical science book, 
is named after Morris H. 
DeGroot, the founding head 
of the statistics department 
at Carnegie Mellon.
             Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
A study by a group of researchers, led by Carnegie 
Mellon chemistry, chemical 
engineering, and engineering and public policy professor Neil Donahue, has 
determined that natural air 
particles are affected by the 
same free radicals that age 
human skin.
We have been able to 
show conclusively that biogenics are chemically transformed in the atmosphere. 
Theyre not just static. They 
keep going, they keep changing and they keep growing, 
Donahue said in a university 
press release. 
Quite a few atmospheric 
models, [...] have been assuming that that doesnt happen. 
What we really need to 
have in the models is an accurate representation of whats 
really going on in the atmosphere, and thats what this 
lets us do.
Since free radicals can 
transform the chemical composition of air pollutants, the 
teams ?ndings could have an 
effect on air quality predictions and regulations.
Theres a very, very 
strong body of data that establishes that ?ne particles in 
the air we breathe have a signi?cant bad effect on people.
What is less well understood is how the size and 
chemical composition of 
those particles in?uences 
that effect, Donahue said in 
the press release.
Donahues team also included researchers from the 
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, the Forschungszentrum Jlich, the Johannes 
Gutenberg University, the 
University of Gothenberg, 
the University of Copenhagen, and the Paul Scherrer 
Institute.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Professors Bayesian book wins biannual DeGroot PrizeStudy ?nds skin-aging free radicals affect air particles
WEATHER
MONDAY
High / Low
75 / 58
TUESDAY
High / Low
76 / 60
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
80 / 63
THURSDAY
High / Low
82 / 64
FRIDAY
High / Low
80 / 64
Each week, The Tartan collaborates with University Police to 
report on the latest incidents 
occurring on and near campus. 
For this issue, The Tartan has 
compiled a special edition of 
the Crime and Incident section; 
these are some of the more notable reports of the section from 
the past year.
Prohibited Solicitation
Oct. 26, 2011
University Police responded to the University Centers 
complaint that a group of 
students were selling nachos 
without permission. Upon arrival, of?cers found that the 
students were cleaning up because the staff had told them 
to leave.
The group was cooperative 
and told the of?cers that they 
thought they were allowed to 
sell nachos for a class project. 
They stated that they believed 
they followed the proper protocol and there must have 
been a misunderstanding between them and the staff. No 
further action was taken.
Disorderly Conduct
Nov. 7, 2011
Police were alerted to an 
incident that occurred at the 
Fairfax Apartments in which 
an unidenti?ed male, who 
was believed to be a Carnegie 
Mellon student, became upset 
over a malfunctioning dryer. 
The male became verbally 
abusive to two of the apartment staff members. University Police are working with the 
staff in an attempt to identify 
this person.
Mock Crime Scenes
Feb. 8, 2012
University Police responded to several places on campus 
for a report of chalk outlines 
of bodies and evidence markers. Mock Crime Alerts were 
also located.
Further investigation revealed that it was an art project done by a student. Due to 
the alarm created by this incident to the campus community and the artists failure to 
obtain permission, discipline 
is pending.
Suspicious Activity
April 1, 2012
University Police were 
called to Hunt Library for a 
report of suspicious activity. 
Library staff told police that 
upon opening they found a 
large blue and yellow papiermch Pokmon Snorlax 
character, approximately six 
feet wide and four feet tall, 
blocking a stairwell. Facilities 
Management Services was 
called to take it down.
Disorderly Conduct
April 8, 2012
University Police were 
called to the Gates Center for 
a report of students who were 
riding wheeled chairs down 
the helix walkway.
Upon arrival, of?cers met 
with the students who admitted to riding the chairs. It was 
explained to the students that 
it was dangerous and unacceptable behavior. A report 
was made and the students 
were warned that if they were 
caught again they would be 
cited.
Harassment
April 24, 2012
University Police took a 
report from a faculty member who was getting repeated 
mailings from an inmate who 
is incarcerated in California. 
A Carnegie Mellon detective is 
following up with the staff of 
the institution to get the mailings to stop.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Kate Groschner/Photo Staff
President Barack Obama visited Carnegie Mellon as the last stop of his two-day Betting on America bus tour of northern Ohio and western 
Pennsylvania during the beginning of July. Obama competed for his audience with a sunny, 94-degree afternoon. With attendees arriving up to three 
hours before the presidents appearance, city and university paramedics treated several people for heat-related illnesses before the event began.
Statistically Speaking
Carnegie Mellon students love facts, and we love to 
brag. With that in mind, here are some facts about Carnegie Mellon that will win you every trivia contest for the 
next four years.
3
500,000
The number of hours each day people spend typing 
CAPTCHAs, invented at Carnegie Mellon by computer 
science professors Luis von Ahn and Manuel Blum.
1967
The year the musical Pippin debuted in its earliest form  as a 
ScotchnSoda production. Three years later, the original version 
of the musical Godspell also debuted at Carnegie Mellon.
1982
The year Carnegie Mellon computer science 
professor Scott Fahlman invented the emoticon.
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: musicalschwartz.com, cmu.edu, 
blogs.dallasobserver.com, and Luis von 
Ahn
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
CMU students welcome Obamas visit
The number of copies of Jonathan Borofskys Walking to the 
Sky sculpture currently in existence. The other two are in 
Dallas, Texas, and Seoul, South Korea.

---------------------------------------------------

August 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
the School of Drama, believes 
Martin will be a good ?t.
He has a good understanding of all ?ve colleges.... 
Hes an advocate for all ?ve 
schools within Warner [Hall] 
and the community, Cooke 
said.
Aside from those outlined 
duties, Martins main goal is 
to develop the cross-education of arts and technology.
We have ?ve very strong 
schools rooted in historical traditions, but students 
are approaching them with 
contemporary visions, he 
explained. At the education 
level, well see a change in 
how its delivered.
Despite a struggling arts 
world full of symphonies and 
museums vying for funding, 
Martin is con?dent that students will continue to come to 
Carnegie Mellon for a unique 
and attractive education that 
blends classical art skills with 
a modern twist  something 
traditional arts conservatories lack.
The world has changed in 
how it consumes creative content, he said. Our students 
are better positioned for that 
world.
He added that, over the 
past decade, a growing number of CFA students take classes across many disciplines, 
including computer science 
and engineering. The ?ve colleges have followed suit and 
integrated multi-disciplined 
courses into their curriculum, 
such as the recently added 
Music and Technology degree.
To further combat obstacles in a struggling art world, 
Martin said he plans to tell 
our story better.
He explained that he believes Pittsburgh doesnt boast 
enough. I dont think weve 
done enough to say how good 
it is and what it contributes to 
the world, he said.
Reaching out to local artists and organizations as well 
as alumni across the nation, 
he hopes to improve communication and market students talents better.
Barbara Anderson, a professor in the School of Drama 
and a previous associate dean 
for CFA, agrees that this will 
be one of Martins challenges 
as dean.
The dean needs to keep 
everyone informed, keep 
CFA ?nancially solid, and 
keep good relationships with 
administration, she said, 
adding that he has been successful at advocating CFA to 
Pittsburgh and the university 
so far.
Anderson added that she 
feels Martin truly enjoys the 
job of dean. 
Hes a ?ne man with a 
good sense of humor, she 
said. Thats important in an 
administrator.
CFA dean tries to reach out
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
This fall, Carnegie Mellon 
unveiled a new organization 
management system called 
The Bridge. Open to all students at the beginning of this 
academic year, The Bridge is 
available to residential communities, Greek chapters, and 
student organizations recognized either through Student 
Government or an academic 
department.
The initial announcement of this new website was 
made in a series of emails to 
those who would be interacting with ?rst-year students 
during Orientation week  
RAs, CAs, HOCs, and chapter 
presidents  and included 
an in-depth description of the 
system, its intention, and how 
to use the website.
An email sent by Dawn 
Sienko, Student Activities of?ce coordinator, explained, 
The Bridge is going to serve 
as the comprehensive involvement tool on campus, now 
including Greek Life, house 
communities, annual campus 
programs, campus departments that provide signi?cant 
programming for students, 
and of course, student organizations!
Student Body Vice President for Organizations Alyssa 
Danesh said that the tools currently available to participating organizations include the 
ability to communicate with 
members through the website, email, or text; the option 
to create a webpage without 
the knowledge of web design 
skills; and event management 
tools that make use of the ?yerboard on the front page.
According to Danesh, 
The Bridge will also integrate social media, as well 
as document and photo storage. This is targeted to students, Danesh said. Every 
single student can log on to 
the Bridge and learn about 
events going on to the school, 
subscribe to organizations 
theyre a part of, or join them. 
OrgTracker was much more 
targeted to just the student 
leaders of organizations.... 
[The Bridge is] more of a social platform, in that you can 
understand whats going on 
at the university.
Lucas Christain, associate 
director of Student Life for 
Upperclass and Greek Houses, said that while The Bridge 
intended to be different from 
social networking sites, there 
are some parallels in ways 
things get fed to you.
Christain said, Organizations will have the ability to 
communicate with members, 
create surveys, hold elections, 
and store documents and web 
forms. There are a ton of tools 
that exist for a student leader.
We think it has the potential to offer solutions to the 
comprehensive events calendar, [...] it can be a place 
where people can go to ?nd 
opportunities and events, he 
continued.
Campus groups and organizations have already been 
provided with instructions 
on how to create their Bridge 
pro?le, and some have started 
sending out invitations to 
members of their d-lists.
The system behind The 
Bridge is a product from CollegiateLink, and is designed 
to replace the old OrgTracker 
system, and eventually BudgetTracker. Data from OrgTracker have already been 
transferred into The Bridge.
Will Weiner, the recently 
elected student body president, helped lead student discussion on the creation of The 
Bridge.
The biggest value I saw 
was the need for a better, central place for organizations, 
Weiner said.
Weiner thought that The 
Bridge would best suit a 
medium-sized student organization, with larger groups 
having their own organization systems, and smaller 
groups not necessarily needing this tool.
It has really cool potential 
for it to change how ?nance 
is done for student organizations, Weiner said. He emphasized that ?nancial data 
would be available more in 
real time.
Danesh says that, while 
the Bridge is fully operational, more features are being 
added. In particular, the Joint 
Funding Committees operations are being added to The 
Bridge, a step requiring CollegiateLink to work on a new 
database for Carnegie Mellon 
and other campuses.
Other functions that will 
be explored in the future, according to Danesh, include 
the ability to swipe your ID 
card at an event to be registered as attending; the development of a co-curricular 
transcript, which would detail 
involvement in extracurricular activities, leadership positions, on-campus research, 
and on-campus jobs; and a 
service hours tracking component, currently being piloted 
by the Greek community.
Christain said that features 
are being rolled out in phases 
both to effectively stress test 
the system and to receive student feedback on The Bridges 
functionality. Were trying to 
be thoughtful about this, he 
said.
DEAN, from A1CMU rolls out new org-tracker
We have ?ve 
very strong 
schools rooted 
in historical 
traditions, but 
students are 
approaching 
them with 
contemporary 
visions.
Dan Martin
Dean of the College 
of Fine Arts
We are trying 
to be thoughtful 
about this.
Lucas Christain
Associate director 
of Student Life for 
Upperclass and 
Greek Houses

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  August 19, 2012
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon senior systems scientist Shawn Kelly is 
developing a retinal prosthesis capable of restoring vision 
to those with degenerative 
eye diseases. He was recently 
awarded a four-year, $1.1 million grant from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
to continue his research.
According to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 21 million 
Americans suffer from functional vision problems or eye 
diseases that may lead to loss 
of vision. 
The CDC also reported 
that Americans are more 
likely to experience vision 
loss due to age-related eye 
diseases, such as glaucoma, 
cataracts, and age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD), 
the breakdown of the macula 
tissue near the retina that allows a person to see ?ne details clearly. Left untreated, 
AMD can lead to permanent 
blindness.
Kellys device is designed 
speci?cally to combat AMD; 
his team works to help victims 
of the disease see again.
My tools are designed to 
help individuals struggling 
with blindness, and to ultimately help injured veterans 
with head and eye wounds recover some peripheral vision, 
said Kelly, who worked at Boston Veterans Hospital before 
coming to Carnegie Mellon 
last year.
A device like this will not 
easily work on someone who 
has been blind since birth and 
hasnt created the visual connections in the brain, Kelly 
warned. But he did af?rm 
that it will work on someone 
whose degenerative disease 
has left them completely blind 
later in life.
The 15 micrometer-thick 
prosthesis is surgically inserted through a small incision 
near the back of the eye, and is 
held in place by the retina. Its 
communication coil  which 
allows the chip to talk to external devices  is attached to 
the sclera, or the white of the 
eye.
We dont expect signi?-
cant discomfort, Kelly said 
of the seemingly intrusive implant. Other ophthalmic devices sit in this area, including 
scleral buckles to repair retinal detachments, and some 
glaucoma pressure valves.
After surgery, a patient 
would wear a pair of eyeglasses with a camera ?tted into its 
frame. The camera connects 
to a portable image processor, which wirelessly transfers 
a compressed version of the 
captured image data to the implanted device. The prosthesis 
then sends stimulating signals to the appropriate retinal 
nerves, creating a pixelated 
form of the original image. 
The entire process comes 
together to form a version of 
the macula cells responsible 
for high-resolution vision that 
are destroyed by AMD.
Kelly recalled his success 
in the early phases of his research where blind volunteers 
tested a prototype of the device.
We delivered stimulating currents to the retina and 
asked what the volunteer 
saw, Kelly said. They reported seeing spots and lines, 
which was the proof of concept that we needed to begin 
developing a chronically implantable device.
Many technical challenges 
stood in the way of that development, including the devices low power draw and the 
logistics of wireless data and 
power transfer. But the most 
dif?cult part of the project for 
Kelly and his team has been 
the chips packaging.
Creating an airtight 
package that is small enough 
to ?t on the side of the eye 
but has enough connections 
to create an image with a few 
hundred pixels is pushing the 
edge of existing technology, 
he said.
Kelly, who began this project as a graduate student at 
the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, has developed 
four different prototypes of 
the device in his 16 years of research. He and his colleagues 
are working on a ?fth and ?nal 
prototype of the prosthesis, 
with clinical trials expected to 
begin in about two years.
We expect the device to 
be available for sale on the 
market in about ?ve years, he 
said.
Vision restoration nearing reality with new system in development 
My tools are 
designed to 
help individuals 
struggling with 
blindness...
Shawn Kelly
Systems scientist
Courtesy of Shawn Kelly
A team of Carnegie Mellon researchers led by senior systems scientist Shawn Kelly are developing a device 
aimed at combating blindness. A tiny prosthesis is surgically inserted near the back of the eye and communicates with a camera-equipped pair of eyeglasses.
TAYLOR CANADY
Junior Staffwriter
This summer has been 
hot enough to make the devil 
sweat. In fact, according to a 
report by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the ?rst six months 
of 2012 were the warmest recorded since 1895. Through 
all this triple digit madness, 
we were reminded to drink 
lots of water and stay cool in 
order to avoid, among other 
heat-associated ailments, heat 
stroke.
Heat stroke is a serious 
matter in which a persons 
core body temperature goes 
from the normal 98.6F to 
104F. This thermal spike 
triggers the central nervous 
system to experience widespread dysfunction, with 
symptoms including nausea, 
delirium, seizures, and possible comas.
According to an article 
published in The New England Journal of Medicine, heat 
stroke is caused by exposure 
to high ambient temperatures or strenuous physical 
activity. The authors generally categorize heat stroke as 
a form of hyperthermia with 
systemic organ dysfunctions. 
These malfunctions stem 
from breakdowns in the brain 
where the precise control of 
thermoregulation is compromised. 
Normally, during a period 
of heat stress, a region in the 
brain called the hypothalamus operates as the bodys 
thermostat, cuing the transport of warmed blood to the 
skin to be cooled. 
Meanwhile, the body 
sweats to lose its excess thermal energy  about 1.7 milliliters of sweat will get rid of 
1 kilocalorie of energy. The 
residual salt left on the skin 
from sweating has to be replenished within the body, 
which can done by ingesting salt tablets or consuming 
electrolyte-rich drinks.
The initial reaction to heat 
stress is a coordinated, shortlived, but severe in?ammatory response. Various cells 
in the body begin to communicate and a slew of protective molecules emerge. The 
complicated conversation 
between cells and tissues is a 
necessary one, functioning as 
a visceral alarm.
The trouble starts when the 
cellular conversation becomes 
over-stimulated, leading to 
heat stroke. The exaggerated 
in?ammatory response causes 
high volumes of blood to be 
redirected away from core 
organs. Furthermore, when 
the response is too strong, 
doctors often see symptoms 
associated with poor blood 
circulation, rampant in?ammation, and overall loss of 
core temperature regulation.
Another biologic response 
to heat stress is to expel protective proteins, appropriately called heat-shock proteins (HSPs). HSPs operate 
to prime the body for possible 
future episodes of hyperthermia. They have a variety of 
roles in the body, but often 
provide stability and assist in 
cellular transport. The HSP 
family protects the cells from 
oxygen deprivation, in?ammation, and other noxious 
threats that occur during heat 
stress and would otherwise 
damage tissue. 
If the body cannot produce HSPs properly during 
heat stress  due to genetic 
mutation, effects of aging, 
or inability to acclimate to 
the heat  heat stroke sets 
in. For example, in a 1988 
article published in Science, 
researchers discovered an increase in the mortality of cells 
subjected to heat stress when 
HSP genes were mutated to 
produce abnormal protein 
structures.
Heat stroke is a complicated malady and is contingent on multiple biological 
processes running amok. This 
illness mostly affects the elderly, infants, athletes, and 
outdoor laborers; however, 
it has been seen in every age 
group and is associated with 
numerous activities. 
The best preventive action 
is to take time to acclimate to 
the heat: Drink plenty of water, eat salty foods to replenish salt lost from sweating, 
and conduct outdoor activities during cooler parts of the 
day.
HOW THINGS WORKThe dangers of heat stroke
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
SCITECH BRIEFS
Physicists discover Higgslike subatomic particle
Physicists at the Large 
Hadron Collider in Geneva, 
Switzerland, shook the world 
July 4 with news con?rming 
the existence of the elusive 
Higgs Boson particle. Commonly referred to as the God 
Particle, its discovery marks 
one of the most important 
milestones of modern physics.
In 1964, English physicist Peter Higgs and his team 
theorized that the existence 
of such a particle would prove 
an invisible force ?eld called 
the Higgs Field was responsible for giving objects mass. 
Without the Higgs Field, matter would zoom around at the 
speed of light; life as we know 
it would not exist.
Scientists maintained that 
while their current data resembled the theory of the 
God Particle, further research 
would be necessary to fully 
characterize it.
Source: The New York Times
NASAs Curiosity lands on Martian surface
On Aug. 6, viewers around 
the world watched a live feed 
of mission control at NASAs 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 
Pasadena, Ca., where scientists cheered as the Mars Science Laboratory landed on 
Mars. NASA invested eight 
years and $2.5 billion into developing the small SUV-sized 
rover, dubbed Curiosity, 
which will be able to explore 
the surface of Mars.
Over its two year mission, 
the rover will scale the base of 
a three-mile-high mountain, 
sending back high-de?nition 
panoramic pictures while 
simultaneously utilizing its 
robotic arm and rock-vaporizing laser to collect samples 
of the ground for chemical 
analysis. 
NASA scientists hope their 
data will one day answer the 
question of whether Mars has 
ever been suitable for life.
Source: CNET 
Tech companies compete during  tablet revolution
The past decade has seen 
the evolution of personal 
computing, from desktops to 
laptops to tablet computers. 
Since Bill Gates Microsoftdesigned Windows operating 
system (OS) debuted in the 
1990s, Apple Inc. and Google 
have been developing their 
own OS for consumers to utilize mobile devices.
This summer, Apple and 
Google rolled out updates to 
their latest operating systems, 
OS X Lion and Jellybean, 
respectively, which highlighted the companies focus 
on touch interfaces for tablet 
computers. 
Microsoft Windows, which 
is the still the dominant OS, 
joined the summer update 
frenzy by showcasing its 
own newly rebuilt Windows 
8, which is scheduled to be 
available for consumers in 
October 2012. 
Source: PC World
Solar storms kept sun busy this summer
Earth was subject to a few 
sun storms this summer, producing ?ares that sent solar 
particles toward the planet. 
On July 12, the sun released 
an X1.4-class solar ?are  the 
most powerful type of ?are it 
can emit  less than a week 
after releasing a slightly less 
powerful X1.1-class solar 
?are. 
This ?are was the strongest of the summer season 
and means the sun is in an active phase, expected to peak 
in 2013.
Solar ?ares are capable of 
traveling at speeds of up to 
?ve or six million miles per 
hour, reaching the earth in 
roughly one to three days.
Intense X-class solar ?ares 
threaten Earth, as they can 
interfere with satellites that 
control navigation, communication signals, and power 
system infrastructures. This 
causes blackouts similar to 
the one seen in India at the 
end of July.
Source: e! Science News
FDA approves drug to reduce HIV infections
In July, the FDA approved 
the ?rst drug aimed at reducing the risk of sexually acquiring HIV. 
The drug, marketed as Truvada, includes a daily morning and night pill as a prevention strategy for individuals 
with high risks of getting HIV. 
In clinical trials, it reduced 
the frequency of infection in 
both heterosexual and LGBT 
subgroups.
Although anti-HIV drugs 
have been used in previous 
years, this drug is the ?rst to 
prevent HIV infection, rather 
than treat those who have 
been born to HIV-positive 
mothers. 
Nearly 50,000 Americans 
are diagnosed with HIV every 
year. FDA commissioner Margaret Hamburg said the drugs 
acceptance is an important 
milestone in our ?ght against 
HIV.... New treatments as well 
as prevention methods are 
needed to ?ght the HIV epidemic in this country.
Source: MedPage Today
Researchers ?nd bacteria-resistant surfaces
Earlier this month, researchers at the University 
of Nottingham in the U.K. released a study in which they 
found new types of polymers 
that are resistant to bacterial attachment. Polymers are 
large molecules composed of 
repeating structural units that 
play an essential role in forming materials like many rubbers and plastics. 
Bacteria that collect on 
surfaces form communities called bio?lms, against 
which our bodies have dif?culty defending. They are 
also resistant to conventional 
antibiotics. These newly identi?ed polymers prevent the 
formation of bio?lms and can 
be used to construct the surfaces of medical devices like 
catheters, heart valves, and 
prosthetic joints, protecting 
patients from infection.
Source: Nature Biotechnology
Compiled by
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA

---------------------------------------------------

August 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
LIGIA NISTOR
Staffwriter
Nearly half of all car accidents occur at night despite 
fewer drivers on the road, according to the National Highway Safety Transportation Administration. Rain and snow 
only make matters worse, further reducing visibility. However, a team of Carnegie Mellon researchers are developing 
a way around this problem: 
smart headlights.
A vehicles headlights illuminate everything in front 
of the car. This means that 
when its raining or snowing, 
the headlights illuminate raindrops or snow?akes, which 
distort the light and prevent 
drivers from seeing objects as 
easily.
The researchers, led by associate professor Srinivasa 
Narasimhan of the Robotics 
Institute, solved this problem 
by streaming light between 
raindrops so its not re?ected 
back toward the driver. Instead of using a bulb as a headlight, the researchers used a 
projector, which controls the 
pixels.
If the particles are not 
hit by the projector light, the 
driver will not see them, Narasimhan said. 
The smart headlights have 
a camera that captures images illuminated by the light 
source, showing where the 
raindrops are. This information is transmitted to a computer, which ?gures out where 
the raindrops will be in the 
next few milliseconds by looking at their velocity and direction. The ?ndings are then fed 
back to the headlights, which 
switch off light rays at those 
predicted locations.
Narasimhans team tested 
the headlights by writing a 
computer system that simulated all kinds of rain and snow 
conditions. After doing a feasibility study, the researchers 
built a real system in a laboratory. They used valves to 
generate real rain conditions, 
ranging from a drizzle to a 
downpour.
The project started about 
two years ago, and Narasimhan said that it may take another two or three years to 
test the system and make sure 
that it works for cars traveling 
at high speeds. Companies in 
the automotive industry have 
expressed interest in commercializing this product, Narasimhan said.
Currently, the smart headlights work for a car moving 
at around 20 miles per hour. 
In order to test the system 
on a faster moving car, there 
needs to be a signi?cant improvement in the ef?ciency 
of data transfer between all of 
the headlight systems components.
For that, we are trying to 
build a completely embedded 
system, Narasimhan said. 
The bottleneck of the current system comes from the 
time it takes for an image to be 
transferred among the camera, computer, and projector 
 a transfer delay of eight 
milliseconds. Narasimhan explained that the team wants 
to put the camera and the processing on the same computing board with the projector 
directly connected.
A couple of years ago, 
when we started this project, 
we thought it was going to be 
very hard, Narasimhan said. 
Before the development of 
the current system, the team 
decided to start with an easier project, building a multidimensional display that 
simulated water drops falling 
through the air. 
The prototype system had 
up to four layers, with each 
layer consisting of a row of 
?fty drops. The researchers 
knew exactly where the water 
drops were because they controlled them, which created a 
much simpler scenario than 
reality. Once the computational requirements became 
clear with the prototype system, the team was ready to use 
the smart headlight system to 
tackle the challenges associated with real, non-simulated 
rain drops.
Smart headlights could improve nighttime driving visibility
If the particles 
are not hit by 
the projector 
light, the driver 
will not see 
them.
Srinivasa 
Narasimhan
Robotics professorCourtesy of Benjamin Lehman via ?ickr
Researchers in the Robotics Institute are developing headlights that can bypass raindrops and snow?akes, increasing nighttime visibility.
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
While child rearing usually 
leads to sleepless nights, parent-teacher conferences, and 
countless trips to the hospital, 
a recent study suggests that 
being a parent may make you 
healthier. And while many of 
the students on campus might 
not personally know the joy 
of having children, this research could uncover which 
positive behaviors arise from 
parenthood.
The research, conducted 
by professor Sheldon Cohen 
and graduate student Rodlescia Sneed in Carnegie Mellons psychology department 
 along with colleagues from 
the University of Virginia and 
the University of Pittsburgh  
was recently published in the 
journal Psychosomatic Medicine.
Sneed and Cohen have 
long been interested in the 
connections between social 
relationships and physical 
health, so the team decided to 
cover a relationship that had 
not received much exposure: 
parenthood.
We found that parenthood had not been well studied, despite the fact that it is a 
common social role for many 
people, Sneed said.
The study was designed to 
use data from previous studies to analyze a relationship 
between wellness and parenthood. Cohen and Sneed had 
two different hypotheses.
On one hand, we thought 
that parenthood would be 
good for health because 
people who had children 
would have a more positive 
outlook on life, Sneed explained. On the other hand, 
we thought that parenthood 
could be bad for health because of the stress associated 
with child rearing.
In the prior studies, over 
800 healthy participants were 
inoculated with either a rhinovirus or in?uenza strain. 
Throughout an either ?veor 
six-day assessment, the participants were quarantined and 
monitored for nasal congestion and other symptoms of 
upper respiratory illness.
The researchers discovered 
that parents with one or two 
children were 41 percent less 
likely to get ill than their childless peers, while parents with 
three or more children were 
more than 60 percent less likely to develop cold symptoms. 
Parents who were younger 
than 22, however, seemed to 
receive no health bene?t. 
The researchers accounted 
for factors such as race, age, 
tobacco use, alcohol consumption, obesity, marital status, 
and prior viral exposure. It is 
important to note that previous exposure to viral infections was not responsible for 
the difference between parents and non-parents, indicating not a biological cause but a 
psychological one. 
As the researchers explore 
a new avenue of public health, 
the studies are creating more 
questions than answers.
Do people who see their 
children infrequently accrue 
health bene?ts? How does 
the quality of the relationship factor into all of this? Are 
these ?ndings speci?c to the 
common cold? Sneed said, 
already thinking of how to apply the outcomes to further 
studies.
Additionally, the data gives 
no particular reason for parents increased cold tolerance. 
Cohen and Sneed are still 
looking for an explanation 
for the cause between parenthood and health, but they believe they are moving toward 
an answer. 
This research gives us 
more insight into how social 
relationships can actually get 
under the skin to in?uence 
health, Sneed said.
Recent study suggests parents may be healthier than non-parents
This research 
gives us more 
insight into 
how social 
relationships 
can actually get 
under the skin 
to in?uence 
health.
Rodlescia Sneed
Graduate student
Courtesy of IanBCNorth via ?ickr
A recent study conducted by researchers at Carnegie Mellon reported that parents with one or two children 
were 41 percent less likely to become ill than their childless peers.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Patrick 
Gage Kelley, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Hannah 
Dellabella, Nicole Lee, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, 
Michael Setzer, Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
ADVERTISING
Kathy Chen, Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
BUSINESS 
Kenneth Wong
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH *
Staffwriter
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  August 19, 2012
Corbett steps in right direction with tech companies
Governor Tom Corbett traveled to 
sunny California last week  not for 
vacation, but to talk tech.
The focus of his visit was to promote Pennsylvania as an ideal breeding ground for startup companies 
and tech ?rms. The presentation 
at Carnegie Mellons Silicon Valley 
campus included several Carnegie 
Mellon administrators and seven 
representatives of Carnegie Melloninitiated startups.
Corbett being proactive and 
reaching out to tech companies  giant corporations and young startups 
alike  is a great leap forward for 
Pittsburgh and the state as a whole.
Its no secret that our states 
economy is in crisis mode; Corbetts 
2012-13 budget cut funding to the 
University of Pittsburgh by 30 percent, and the Port Authority had to 
reduce its services by 15 percent in 
March of last year with a further cut 
of 35 percent planned for September. Similarly, job availability seems 
to be stagnant, and the unemployment percentage has been stuck at 
7.5 percent since January. Its also 
no secret that Pittsburgh leaders like 
Mayor Luke Ravenstahl have been 
trying to entice graduating students 
to stay in the region for years.
What could bring youth, money, 
and jobs to an area in one swoop? 
Startup companies  and Corbett 
understands this. Marketing his state 
in this way is attractive to outside 
companies looking for a place to 
develop their businesses. Pittsburgh 
and Pennsylvania need startup 
companies for the aforementioned 
reasons, but its also true that these 
companies need this region.
Pittsburgh is similar to what the 
West was during the Gold Rush  
people knew there were riches to 
be had, but no one had utilized the       
region yet.
Established in 2002, Carnegie 
Mellons Silicon Valley campus has 
served as an extension of the spirit 
of the Pittsburgh campus. It acted 
as the perfect backdrop for Corbetts 
visit by combining Carnegie Mellons 
message of innovation and the notoriously famous tech atmosphere of 
Silicon Valley.
Silicon Valley is the leading site in 
tech startup companies, and to draw 
them closer to the East Coast, its essential to our citys growth that Corbett showed them that Pittsburghbased industries and projects can 
compete and work with Silicon Valleys. Carnegie Mellon is strongest 
in its main campus, and showcasing 
the potential for Pittsburgh through 
a satellite campus was a smart choice 
for Corbett.
So while Corbett does not have 
a spotless record in decision making, he is making the right choice in 
boasting the states potential for tech 
companies of all sizes.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Modern Games signals a new era for female athletes
If we could describe this summers Olympics in a word, it would 
be modern.
With its bright and jagged logo 
inspired by media, communications, 
and fashion; its captivating and confusing opening ceremony; and its futuristic-looking mascots, the London 
Games aspired to highlight prevalent 
issues like health care, sustainability, 
and the effects of technology.
Britains modern approach and 
theme of inspiring a generation 
was spot-on in setting the tone for 
this summers Games. In particular, 
the female Olympians seemed to 
take this theme to heart. With 204 
countries and 10,820 athletes participating, the 2012 Summer Olympics 
marked the ?rst time every country 
sent a female competitor to at least 
one of the events.
In categories like volleyball, gymnastics, weight lifting, and boxing, 
women took the Olympics by storm. 
Of course, as with most shifts in 
gender paradigms, there was backlash  sexist online comments, 
the suggestion that female boxers 
wear skirts to make it easier to differentiate genders, and other such          
statements. 
But the internet goes both ways, 
and female athletes are letting their 
voices be heard via interviews and 
blog responses like British weight 
lifting champion Zoe Smiths viral 
blog post addressing sexist virtual 
commentary.
The unprecedented popularity 
that the live and television audiences 
showed for womens sports, and boxing in particular, is not likely to die 
down.
Sure, the Games didnt go perfectly; organizational ?aws caused 
some seating to remain empty, some 
Olympians were disquali?ed for 
various reasons, and many local taxi 
drivers were annoyed by the street 
changes. But overall, the Games ran 
smoothly. The crowd was warm and 
enthusiastic, and the organizers focused on sustainability in terms of 
infrastructure, most of which will be 
dismantled, recycled, or sold. The 
London hosts succeeded in keeping 
the centuries-old tradition of the 
Olympic Games modern, and aware 
of social undercurrents.
Although the bomb threats at the 
University of Pittsburgh stopped in 
April, the FBI pursued the perpetrator to set an example for others who 
would seek to voice their discontent 
in the same way. Finally, on Aug. 15, 
District Attorney David Hickton announced the indictment of 64-yearold Adam Busby of Dublin, Ireland, 
for emailing some of the threats.
Busbys arrest discourages future 
threats by demonstrating the consequences and the lengths to which the 
government will go to punish those 
offenses. However, attempts to give 
Busby a motive in this story will likely not only be fruitless, but will also 
undermine the FBIs efforts and unduly validate the anonymous bomb 
threats as articulate statements of 
protest.
Without any demands, attempts 
at coercion, or even opinionated 
writings, the bomb threats were not 
statements, but only inarticulate 
expressions of aggression. This fact 
is poetically illustrated by Busbys 
foreign background and lack of connection to Pitt. Perhaps he never had 
any reason to care about Pitt at all. 
But even if he wasnt foreign and had 
a connection to Pitt, his actions were 
still anonymous and without purpose or motive.
Yet still, reporters at the FBI press 
conference and the Pittsburgh Post 
Gazette have attempted to discern 
Busbys message. These efforts to, as 
the Post Gazette puts it, give Busby 
a face not only validate the bomb 
threats as articulate statements of 
discontent, but also implicitly shift 
the responsibility of articulating the 
statement away from the perpetrator and to the victim and the media. 
We applaud Attorney David Hickton 
for rightly declining to join in on the                
speculation.
In a previous issue, we had expressed how we feared that the 
bomb threats success at provoking reactions would popularize 
and encourage others to use bomb 
threats as outlets for aggression 
over other, more articulate, forms of                     
communication. 
Although it comes as a relief 
that the perpetrator was arrested, 
it would be a mistake to recognize 
anonymous bomb threats as one of 
these forms of communication by 
attempting to discern meaning from 
the threats.
Dont look for reasoning behind Busbys bomb threats
Chik-?l-A is a-?xin to get fried for its values
CARL GLAZER 
When talking about fast food restaurants, Chick-?l-A is generally out 
of the main conversation, yielding 
to larger brand names such as McDonalds, Wendys, and Burger King. 
But when talking about same-sex 
marriage and LGBT rights, Chick-?lA has been front and center for the 
past month because of Chick-?l-A 
president Dan Cathys comments.
In response to these statements, 
individuals and organizations quickly took sides not just about same-sex 
marriage but about Cathys statements and the rights of companies 
to state their views without repercussion. One of the most common 
defenses of Cathy and Chick-?l-A, 
besides pure LGBT hatred, is the argument that companies, along with 
individuals, should be allowed to 
discuss their views without fear of 
criticism and consequences.
These individuals maintain that, 
since Chick-?l-A does not discriminate against LGBT employees and 
customers, the values of the company and its management are of no 
importance to the consumer. Unfortunately, Cathy and Chick-?l-A have 
chosen to display their values with 
more than just words. 
In 2010, Chick-?l-A donated 
nearly $2 million to anti-LGBT 
groups through various foundations. By choosing to spend money 
and eat at Chick-?l-A, some patrons 
are now intentionally supporting 
anti-LGBT agendas. This connection 
brings not only the free speech of 
companies but also that of consumers into play.
Just as Amazon.com founder and 
CEO Jeff Bezos and his wife gave 
$2.5 million to the Washington state 
campaign to ?ght for the legalization of gay marriage, more companies and CEOs are using personal 
and company funds to support organizations with social agendas. 
While there is no legal or moral 
problem with this, there are still repercussions. Once companies begin 
bringing social and moral values to 
the forefront, consumers will begin 
to consider those in addition to the 
product.
Chick-?l-A, with its monetary 
support of hot-button social issues, 
has encouraged customers to take 
sides with their pocketbooks. 
Companies and consumers each 
have the right to express personal 
beliefs through words, actions, and 
money. The right to free expression, 
however, does not include the right 
to be free of criticism and consequences. 
Boycotts and support days 
have turned companies into polling 
booths, with pro?t as the ultimate 
result. Regardless of the effect on 
Chick-?l-As bottom line, this ?areup has shown the rapid publicity 
 both good and bad  that comes 
when companies jump into social issues.
With Cathys statements and 
Chick-?l-As donations to anti-LGBT 
groups, companies rights to moral 
and social stances have come to 
the forefront of public discussion. 
Consumers have just as much right 
to speak with their dollars as companies do, particularly when profits are being used to fund social       
agendas. 
Bringing social values to a marketplace where a companys success depends on consumer loyalty is a risky proposition fraught 
with public scrutiny and ?nancial                          
consequence.
Carl Glazer (cglazer@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan and a 
junior in engineering and public 
policy.
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
 These individuals 
maintain that, since 
Chick-?l-A does 
not discriminate 
against LGBT 
employees and 
customers, the 
values of the 
company and its 
management are of 
no importance to 
the consumer.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Its Orientation week! So we asked current students,
Whats one thing you would have changed about your Orientation?
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon
August 19, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
KYLE HENSON
If you asked me on Aug. 10 who 
I was going to vote for, I wouldnt 
have been able to tell you. I could 
vote for Mitt Romney for the sole 
purpose of defeating Barack Obama 
 and therefore Obamacare  or I 
could follow my heart and support 
my libertarian pipe dream in former 
New Mexico governor Gary Johnson. 
Im a Republican-leaning libertarian, but Mitt Romney just doesnt 
inspire me; I dont know who he is or 
what hes about. He seems distant, 
unde?ned, and wishy-washy.
Fortunately, Romneys new vicepresidential running mate Paul 
Ryan is just the opposite. The House 
Budget Committee Chairman represents what Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan calls the future of the Republican Party. Hes 
not part of the old establishment 
that embodies politics as usual; hes 
part of the young, reform-minded 
group that is seriously concerned 
about our future.
Ryan has been nothing but consistent on his views. Republicans 
and Democrats may disagree about 
his ideas, but by all accounts, hes a 
budget expert. 
In the same vein, hes the only 
politician who has earnestly tried to 
address the long-run ?scal insolvency of our federal government.
Bringing those credentials to the 
table is important. The debate that 
has long been centered around attacks on Romneys character will be 
shelved in favor of the real debate 
that de?nes this election. We have 
a choice between two very different futures: Do we become more 
like Europe or Singapore? More like 
California or Texas?
Republicans, embodied by Ryans budget plan, clearly favor a promarket society in which anyone can 
make it if they work hard enough. 
Democrats favor a pro-business, entitlement society in which those who 
make it got there not because theyre 
smart or work hard, but because 
the government let them succeed. 
Choosing Ryan and his budget puts 
this distinct choice at the forefront 
of the election almost to the exclusion of everything else.
On a somewhat separate note, 
there seems to be confusion about 
Ryans budget  his house-passed 
plan to make America sustainable 
by 2050. In order to achieve that 
goal, there are tough decisions to be 
made, and this budget makes them.
Contrary to popular belief, this 
plan doesnt end Medicare as we 
know it; the status quo ends Medicare as we know it. The program 
runs out of money in 2033 and thats 
it.
Ryans budget voucherizes Medicare for those younger than 55 so 
we can let the market do its work 
and keep costs as low as possible. If 
youre older than 55, nothing changes. Theres no pushing granny off a 
cliff; granny is ?ne under Ryans 
plan.
When it comes down to it, Democrats werent voting for Romney anyway. Similarly, Republicans werent 
about to vote for Obama anytime 
soon. This tells independent voters 
that its time to get serious. Nows 
the time to make these decisions, 
and heres where we stand. Were 
going to balance budgets and leave 
this country in a decent place for our 
kids and their kids; thats what the 
American Dream is all about.
Im a registered independent and 
if you asked me today who I was going to vote for, Id still tell you Im 
not sure. 
But now at least I know exactly 
where Romney stands, and its a 
pretty attractive position.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan and a 
sophomore in business administration.
Paul Ryan focuses race on debt issues
Courtesy of the United States Congress
MARITINA TSEMBELIS
Junior Staffwriter
With the recent abundance of 
mass shootings in the U.S., the subject of gun safety has once again 
been brought into the spotlight. 
These tragic events serve as reminders that stricter gun control policies 
should be enforced to ensure public 
safety.
According to The Center for Responsive Politics, gun activists argue 
that measures intended to curb gunrelated violence, such as mandatory child safety locks, background 
checks on those wishing to purchase 
a gun, limits on the number of guns 
a person can buy, and raising the age 
limit for gun ownership ... infringe 
on the constitutional rights of lawabiding citizens.
What these activists fail to realize is that neglecting to control gun 
ownership makes our streets more 
dangerous and violates every persons right to life and liberty.
While the Second Amendment 
was meant for protection, guns without regulations give way to nothing 
but widespread violence and tragedies. In fact, according to the Brady 
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, 
there have been more than 61 mass 
shootings in the U.S. since the Jan. 
8,  massacre in Tuscon, Arizona last 
year.
In what the FBI described as a 
domestic terrorist-type incident, 
seven people were killed and three 
injured at a Sikh temple in a Milwaukee suburb at the beginning of this 
month. In July, 12 people were killed 
and 58 injured during the midnight 
premiere of The Dark Knight Rises in 
Aurora, Colorado. Even Pittsburgh 
witnessed the dangers of guns falling into the wrong hands when a 
gunman opened ?re in the lobby of 
the Western Psychiatric Institute 
and Clinic in March, killing one and 
wounding seven.
The government isnt doing 
enough in terms of enforcing gun 
control laws, thus making our streets 
more dangerous. As of 2010, the 
Government Accountability Of?ce 
(GAO) stated that federal law does 
not prohibit members of terrorist organizations from purchasing or possessing ?rearms or explosives.
Furthermore, the GAO reported 
that between February 2004 and 
February 2010, 1,225 ?rearm and 
three explosives background checks 
for people on terrorist watch lists 
were processed through the federal 
background check system, [and 
that] of these, 91 percent of the ?rearm transactions and 100 percent 
of the explosives transactions were      
allowed.
If guns fall into the hands of potential terrorists, it defeats the purpose of the governments pre-existing gun control measures.
The problem of gun violence 
needs to be addressed both from a 
cultural point of view and a political 
perspective. Guns have always been 
a part of life, and ?nding a happy 
medium for gun control is a daunting task.
The matter of ?nding a solution 
to gun violence is complicated by the 
fact that many gun activists believe  
gun control measures do not provide any proven bene?t to the public. 
However, stricter gun control laws 
have shown an improved general 
safety outside the U.S.
Australia has succeeded in implementing effective gun control laws, 
leading to a decrease in both gun 
suicides and homicides. The Australian federal government persuaded 
all states and territories to enforce 
stricter bans on long guns that could 
be used in mass shootings. While 
there were 13 mass shootings in Australia between 1979 and 1996, there 
have not been any since then, demonstrating how such measures have 
helped make Australia a safer place 
to live.
The bottom line is that while 
guns should not be outlawed entirely, there should be stricter laws 
enforcing gun control policies. In 
our country, since just about anyone can legally own a gun, it is much 
easier for tragedies to occur. While 
outlawing the use of guns is unconstitutional and unrealistic, enforcing proper gun control laws would 
create a much safer environment for 
everyone.
Stricter gun control laws needed
Dishonest ads should put you on guard
SOPHIE WIRT
Junior Staffwriter
Like many people my age, I established my basic political preferences 
via various news forms and dinner 
table discussions. The political advertisements that spring up during 
campaign season further in?uence 
my political leanings.
While its no news that political 
advertisements ?aunt staggering 
statistics and shocking facts to capture the audiences attention, this 
years advertisements contain excessive exaggeration and downright 
misinformation.
As an onlooker to the decadence 
of political advertising, I cannot help 
but wonder how much of our political preferences might be based on 
partisan prejudice. Furthermore, its 
important to consider the implications that dirty advertisements have 
for younger, more impressionable 
voters.
While political advertisements 
can be engaging, I began questioning 
their validity after a recent exposure 
to skewed facts.
A pro-Barack Obama PAC released an online advertisement 
insinuating that Republican candidate Mitt Romney was responsible 
for a cancer patients death. The 
deceaseds husband, Joe Soptic, appears in the advertisement, blaming 
Romney for his job loss and a resulting inability to afford the healthcare 
needed to prevent his wifes cancerrelated death.
Over an appropriately somber 
soundtrack, Soptic shares: When 
Mitt Romney closed the plant, I lost 
my healthcare, and my family lost 
their healthcare.... In actuality, 
Romney was no longer involved in 
the business when Soptic lost his job 
and health insurance, and his wife 
had retained her own healthcare insurance for some years thereafter.
Soptics job loss was unrelated to 
his wifes eventual loss of her own 
separate health insurance, and certainly none of their medical misfortune was related to Romney.
Although the Soptic advertisement was particularly questionable, 
I cant say Im surprised. The proObama PAC stooped pretty low, but 
perhaps it was in retaliation to some 
equally mucky Republican advertisements.
One example lies in the Romney campaigns airing a factually 
inaccurate welfare ad, which accused Obama of rescinding the employment requirements to receive 
welfare. This advertisement was 
designed to infuriate taxpayers by 
implying that Obama allows states to 
haphazardly dole out welfare checks 
to the undeserving.
In actuality, Obama merely allowed states to apply for exceptions 
to welfare reform rules in order to 
test run demonstration projects 
aimed at getting people on employment rolls.
Unfortunately, both campaigns 
have ensured that their twisted 
messages are virtually inescapable. 
Surely, Im not the only one who 
feels frustrated when Im forced to 
sit through 30 seconds of political 
slander before watching a YouTube 
video. Yet, the time taken to air the 
advertisement may not be in vain. 
These advertisements are designed 
to be effective whether we are consciously registering them or not.
Political advertisements seem 
much less credible this season, and 
Ive decided not to succumb to their 
political pathos. But I believe that, if 
aired repeatedly, they are bound to 
make most people think there must 
be some truth in them.
As for impressionable young 
minds, dishonest campaign advertisements have tainted our view of 
the entire political system, perhaps 
irreversibly. This loss of respect for 
the process itself is probably the 
most serious side effect.
Thus, it is imperative that we 
uncover the raw facts via research, 
instead of allowing manipulative 
mudslinging to skew our political 
perception. 
After all, every vote counts, and 
its our responsibility to ensure that 
we are voting on truth.
 ...this years advertisements contain 
excessive exaggeration and downright 
misinformation. As an onlooker to the 
decadence of political advertising, I 
cannot help but wonder how much of our 
political preferences might be based on 
partisan prejudice.
Amy Hung
Biological Sciences
Junior
Less boring.
Amir Jahanbin
Architecture
Junior
Orientation can be misleading 
as far as what actual school will 
be like. The transition could be 
better.
Erin Jung
Mathematical Sciences
Sophomore
We spent too much time doing 
house bonding and not enough 
time with the communities 
outside of the house.
Immanuel Krogmann
ChemE
Junior
Getting to know my House 
Fellow better would have been 
nice. I didnt know who they 
were!
Laura Laham
BME/MechE
Senior
More interhouse interaction!

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  August 19, 2012
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The student athletes at 
Carnegie Mellon are wrapping up pre-season and are 
ready to hit the ground running. Here is a rundown on 
the varsity teams competing 
in the fall:
Football:
The Tartan football team 
?nished last season 5-5, capturing its 500th career win 
over the University of Chicago.
Returning senior running 
backs Patrick Blanks and Jake 
Nardone prepare to lead the 
team on the offensive, since 
the teams other top scorer 
Chris Garcia has graduated. 
Senior outside linebacker 
Nick Karabin will be set to 
lead the defense.
One of the biggest changes 
the team will face is the new 
assistant coach, Joe Lapkowicz. Lapkowicz comes to Carnegie Mellon after coaching at 
McDaniel College, where he 
specialized in running backs. 
For the Tartans, he will focus 
on the wide receivers and 
tight ends.
Their season kicks off Sept. 
1 at 1 p.m. in a non-conference game against the Grove 
City College Wolverines here 
at Gesling Stadium. The Tartans defeated the Wolverines 
2119 last season.
Mens Soccer:
The mens soccer team had 
a slightly disappointing 2011 
season, ?nishing 7-8-1.
The Tartans will need to replace the handful of starters it 
lost. Senior goal keeper Zach 
Stahl, who averaged 1.81 
goals scored per game last 
year, will be returning while 
senior forward Alex Abedian 
will play an essential role in 
the offense for the Tartans.
The Carnegie Mellon Invitational debuts the 2012 season on Aug. 31. The Tartans 
will face Hobart College in the 
?rst round of the invitational 
at 7:30 p.m.
Womens Soccer:
Over the summer, head 
coach Yon Struble led the USA 
Deaf Soccer Womens Team to 
the gold medal with a 1-0 win 
over Russia in the Deaf World 
Cup.
Back in Pittsburgh, the 
Carnegie Mellon soccer team 
is coming off a 9-7 2011 season, and the girls, led by the 
offense of sophomore forward 
Savina Reid and junior defender Rachel Contopoulos, 
return to start the 2012 season.
The Tartans open their season against Nazareth College 
in Rochester, New York, on 
Aug. 31.
Golf:
The Tartans ?nished strong 
academically in the 2011 season with a cumulative grade 
point average of 3.46. They received the All-Academic Team 
award from the Golf Coaches 
Association of America.
The Grove City Invitational 
is Sept. 13, where the Tartans 
will face the ?rst challenge 
of the year at the Grove City 
Country Club.
Volleyball:
The team ?nished 15-15 
overall and 2-5 in conference. 
The Tartans won the last game 
of the season against Brandeis 
University to ?nish seventh in 
the University Athletic Association Championships.
On Aug. 31, they will compete in the Ohio Northern 
Tournament, where they will 
?rst play Wooster College at 
5:00 p.m. at Ada, Ohio.
Mens Tennis:
Losing only one player to 
graduation last season, the 
Tartans return with a young 
team.
The team as a whole did 
not make the NCAA Division 
III Mens Tennis Championships last season.
However, the doubles duo 
of senior Duke Miller and 
sophomore William Duncan 
made it to the quarter?nals. 
Miller also competed individually in singles, where he 
made it to the quarter?nals of 
championships.
Womens Tennis:
The Tartans ended last season in a 54 loss to Amherst 
College in the quarter?nals 
of the 2012 NCAA Division III 
Womens Tennis Championship.
The combo of Courtney 
Chin and Laura Chen, along 
with Cze-Ja Tam, graduated 
at the end of last season. For 
the upcoming year, it will be 
up to junior Katie Cecil, sophomore Chelsea Motie, and 
sophomore Angela Pratt to 
step up as leaders.
Mens Cross Country:
Senior Evan Gates returns 
after ?nishing 28th at NCAA 
Division III Mens Cross Country Championships last season. 
The Tartans open their season Sept. 1 at the Duquesne 
Duals in Schenley Park.
Womens Cross Country:
The Tartans welcome 
back senior Emily Wobb, who 
earned All-American at the 
NCAA Division III Womens 
Cross Country Championships 
last season.
The team opens their 
new season on Sept. 1 at the 
Duquesne Duals in Schenley 
Park.
Fall sports gear up for new season
File photos by Celia Ludwinski, Jess Sochol, and Sky Gao
Carnegie Mellon is home to many varsity-level sports, including soccer, volleyball, and swimming. Most athletics are offered for men and women.
CMU offers variety of club athletics
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
At Carnegie Mellon, club 
sports are the perfect way for 
those interested in athletics 
to play competitively. If you 
feel like you dont have the 
time or ability to compete at 
the varsity level, then club 
sports could be for you.
Cricket Club
The sport that originated 
in England in the early 16th 
century and has grown popular in India is also a staple club 
sport at Carnegie Mellon. 
The club cricket team, which 
represents the university in 
inter-collegiate competitions, 
can be regularly seen practicing on the Cut. Members also 
organize pick-up games on 
the Cut, hold workshops, and 
telecast international cricket 
matches.
Lacrosse Club
The club lacrosse team 
plays in the Division II East 
section as de?ned by the Central Collegiate Lacrosse Association, competing against 
other universities in the 
region, such as Grove City 
College, Dayton University, 
Walsh University, and John 
Carroll University.
Led by coach Andrew 
Dickson and assistant coach 
Robert Heaps, the Tartans 
are looking to improve during the remainder of the 
2012 season. Senior computational physics major and 
mid?elder Jimmy Komianos 
is a new addition, having just 
?nished his ?rst season with 
the club.
The guys play hard and 
the coaches push us to compete at a high level, Komianos said.
Rowing Club
The club rowing team 
practices on the Allegheny 
River and is divided into two 
teams: ?rst-year/novice rowers and experienced rowers. The experienced rowers 
practice in the morning, and 
the novice rowers practice in 
the afternoon. The club competes in regattas across the 
East Coast, both in the fall 
and spring.
Club Water Polo
The club water polo team 
was coed until 2010, when it 
split into mens and womens 
teams.
The mens team competes 
in the Collegiate Water Polo 
Association (CWPA) as a part 
of the western region of the 
Mid-Atlantic Division III Club 
Division, a level typical for 
most high school water polo 
players.
The womens team also 
competes in the CWPA. They 
are looking for players and do 
not require prior experience 
of those who want to try out 
for the team.
Club Hockey
The club hockey team is 
coming off one of its most 
successful seasons in history. 
The team won its ?rst playoff 
game and made a dominating run to the championship 
game before losing 8-5 to the 
California University of Pennsylvania Vulcans.
The Tartans saw four players graduate at the end of 
last semester; recruiting is a 
priority for the team in order 
to continue building upon its 
recent success.
The senior class has continuously ensured we have a 
solid offense and defense, 
said defender and winger 
Bryn Loef?er  a junior majoring in global studies and 
Hispanic studies  at the 
end of last season. It is going 
to be tough trying to piece 
together lines when such talented players leave.
Check out the Fall Activities 
Fair on Sept. 5, or visit the athletic departments website at 
any time to see a full listing of 
Carnegie Mellons club sports 
or to inquire about any of the 
teams.
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
To the surprise of very few, 
the U.S. had the most fruitful 
Olympic scores of participating nations, ?nishing with a 
whopping 104 medals and 
bringing home a total of 46 
gold medals.
The 2012 Olympic games 
saw the U.S. bounce back 
from its 2008 gold medal 
count of 36, second to Chinas 
51. 
Although the U.S. won the 
total medal count in Beijing, 
winning both the gold count 
and total count was a nice 
improvement from four years 
ago.
Although the U.S. was successful in this years Olympics, 
there were a few disappointing performances for the red, 
white, and blue.
In mens beach volleyball, 
Todd Rogers and Phil Dalhauser  the reigning gold 
medalists from the Beijing 
Olympics  looked poised 
to bring back another gold 
for America. But in an early 
round, they were beaten in 
straight sets (2117 and 
2119) by Paolo Nicolai and 
Daniele Lupo of Italy. 
Rogers said before the 
match that he was playing 
on a sore hamstring, and it 
showed. He only registered 11 
of his 29 swings as kills and 
recorded just 13 digs in the 
two matches. 
Dalhausers performance 
was subpar as well, with just 
10 kills and one block  low 
numbers for arguably the 
best player in mens beach 
volleyball.
The other American team, 
Jacob Gibb and Sam Rosenthal, made it to the quarter?-
nals before losing 2-1 to the 
bronze-winning Latvian team 
of Martins Plavins and Janis 
Smedins.
The U.S. also couldnt live 
up to its expectations in mens 
gymnastics. Previously considered one of the best, the 
American team failed to grab 
a medal while the Chinese 
team dominated the events. 
Theres de?nitely a disappointment, U.S. captain Jonathan Horton said, as reported by the Associated Press. 
Were one of the best teams 
in the world.
After ?nishing seventh 
on pommel horse, the mens 
team was bumped down to 
last place. However, their excellent performance on the 
rings put them back into medal contention. Unfortunately, 
John Orozcos fall on the vault 
did the Americans in.
I fell on my butt, Orozco 
told the Associated Press.
Despite the handful of disappointing performances by 
U.S. athletes, Americans were 
overwhelmingly successful in 
a majority of the other Olympic events.
The U.S. team dominated 
Olympic basketball, going 80 
and winning by an average of 
32 points per game. The team 
met Spain in the gold medal 
match, just as it did in the 
2008 Olympics.
This was an aggressive 
game, but the U.S. managed 
to pull away and win 107
100. This marks the last Olympic game for superstar Kobe 
Bryant and head coach Mike 
Krzyzewski. Cant believe 
the games are over, seems like 
yesterday we were walking 
into the stadium with nerves 
of excitement and dreams of 
Gold, Bryant told the Associated Press.
In womens beach volleyball, Misty May-Treanor 
and Kerri Walsh Jennings 
took their third consecutive 
gold, after winning in 2004 
and 2008, setting an Olympic record. In the gold medal 
match, May-Treanor and 
Walsh Jennings beat the other 
American team, April Ross 
and Jennifer Kessy, in straight 
sets, winning 2116 in both.
It did not come as a surprise when the U.S. team 
dominated the pools, winning 
16 golds in swimming and 31 
total swimming medals. Competing in a total of 24 events, 
Michael Phelps won four gold 
and two silver medals in this 
years Olympic games, setting 
Olympic records and bringing 
his career medal count to 22 
and gold medal count to 18.
At the young age of 17, 
American swimmer Missy 
Franklin led the women in 
medals with ?ve total  four 
gold and one bronze. I cant 
believe you just did that! 
Phelps told Franklin after 
she scored gold just 15 minutes after qualifying for the 
200-meter freestyle ?nal.
The 2016 Summer Olympics will held be in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil; and with the 
abundance of young athletes 
like Franklin and mens swimmer Ryan Lochte, as well as 
a cluster of young basketball 
talent, the U.S. is poised to 
dominate the ?eld once again.
2012 Olympics overview
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Senior running back Patrick Blanks, one of the four 
captains of Carnegie Mellons 
football team, looks forward 
to his last season. 
Blanks studies business 
administration in the Tepper 
School of Business, with a 
concentration in ?nance.
I would enjoy an opportunity to work in the ?nancial 
services industry immediately 
following graduation, but I 
have higher aspirations to 
start my own business someday, he said.
Blanks started playing 
football at seven years old 
and played throughout high 
school, until some complications arose.
I was seriously injured 
during my senior year of high 
school. This injury required 
intensive rehabilitation that 
sat me out for two years, 
Blanks explained.
I was extremely proud 
when I ?nally earned my ?rst 
collegiate carry against Washington University half of the 
way into my freshman season. 
I was able to recover from a 
serious setback and focus on 
higher goals.
With such a large team, 
there is no shortage of laughs 
in the locker room. Blanks 
funniest moment occurred 
during his sophomore year.
We were watching ?lm 
of a game against Wittenberg, Blanks recalled. The 
play was on the goal line going in to score. I got the ball 
on a sweep to the left, but I 
chose to reverse the ?eld to 
the right. Just as I was about 
to score over the right pylon, 
a Wittenberg defender came 
out of nowhere and launched 
me into the air out of bounds. 
Everyone laughed as the offensive coordinator replayed 
the segment several times.
In college, he has found 
his perseverance through the 
years rewarding.
I have the rare opportunity to play a sport that I love 
on a highly competitive stage, 
while earning one of the 
best degrees in the nation, 
he said. The professors and 
coaches at CMU expect the 
best on both fronts, and you 
cannot have athletic success 
without classroom success; at 
CMU they go hand in hand.
Since completing preseason training, Blanks has 
some goals in mind for the 
upcoming season.
The other three captains 
and myself understand that 
this team has the talent to be 
successful and it is our goal to 
turn all of the talent into wins 
on the ?eld, he said.
Having three years of college under his belt, Blanks has 
some advice to offer to the incoming class.
College is the bridge between childhood and adulthood  you should be learning all you can and stretching 
yourself to your limits, he 
said. Try new things so you 
can understand the type of 
person you want to be.
Patrick Blanks looks forward to his last football season at CMU
Courtesy of Patrick Blanks
Senior Patrick Blanks is in his ?nal season on the football team.
ATHLETE PROFILESPORTS COMMENTARY

---------------------------------------------------

Etiquette Guide
A guide to help you look like you 
know what youre doing  B4
08.19.12 Volume 107, Issue 1
Exploring Pittsburgh
Discover what the citys diverse 
neighborhoods have to offer  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Whats the difference between using Shazam 
and using Shazam like a hipster?
11
Paperhouse
WRCT, Carnegie Mellons campus radio 
station, introduces itself.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Juan Fernandez
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about getting rid 
of your parents and experiencing Orientation.
3
...diversions
...this week only
HOCs
This years Head Orientation Counselors give 
some advice on making the most of college.
3
Etiquette Guide
A short guide to looking and acting like you 
know what youre doing on campus.
4
Cultural District
Pittsburghs Cultural District draws unique 
attractions to a musically diverse city.
5
Best Bites
The Tartan presents our best onand offcampus food and dining recommendations.
6
Neighborhoods
Find out where to go and what to do in each 
of Pittsburghs diverse neighborhoods.
8
Traditions
Unconventional traditions define the Carnegie 
Mellon experience.10
Puzzles
Try your hand at this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
See what the stars have in store for you during 
Orientation week.
14
Calendar
Dont miss any of Orientation weeks many 
events.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 08.19.123
From the Head Orientation Counselors
A letter about writing your own chapter of the Tartan Tale
Hello Class of 2016+,
Once again, we want to congratulate you on making 
it here! If youre reading this edition of The Tartan, it 
means youve made it all the way to campus and are 
ready to get your college experience started. This is 
a monumental achievement in and of itself. Carnegie 
Mellon is a very special place, but that description 
dangerously oversimplifies the truth. In actuality, 
there is no adequate way to describe the culture, 
community, and wealth of experiences that await 
you here.
Instead, we hope that you will get a sense of what 
the phrase Carnegie Mellon is a very special place 
means during Orientation week and that you will 
come to fully understand the magic of this place 
throughout your four or five years here.
Its difficult to wrap your head around all the 
opportunities youll have; each of us HOCs are 
entering our fourth year and we still continue to be 
wowed by the experiences we are presented with 
and the amazing things we see our peers doing in 
all fields. Here you are only limited by your ambition, 
and this idea played an integral part in the selection 
of our theme: Tartan Tale.
We wanted to emphasize the agency you will have in 
shaping your experience. You are writing your own 
story and the plot is whatever you choose. Labels 
mean little here; your major doesnt define your life 
path. Instead, what is important is how you choose 
to use your skills and passions.
Its common here to see computer scientists go into 
the arts, artists end up coding, and every form of 
collaboration in between. We encourage you to use 
your time here to discover your passions and take 
advantage of Carnegie Mellons vast resources to see 
your dreams to fruition.
Another aspect that led us to choose Tartan Tale 
is that it speaks to a grander story than one on the 
individual level. We are all Tartans here. All of our 
actions and achievements contribute to the alreadyimpressive legacy of Carnegie Mellon. How will 
your individual story weave into the larger plaid of 
Carnegie Mellon?
You are now a part of a huge family of innovators 
and award winners in just about every field. More 
importantly, this is a family of curious, kind, and 
fascinating individuals. Your experience will be 
greatly enriched if you seek out those around you 
and learn from one another by exchanging your 
stories and dreams.
This coming week is going to be packed with new 
people, places, and information. Dont worry if you 
dont remember every fact you learn or every face 
you meet; its impossible to do so. However, we still 
recommend you try to learn all you can about what 
Carnegie Mellon can offer and to meet as many other 
students as possible.
All of us have close friends we met during our 
Orientation week, and you will find yourselves 
building those bonds shortly. The seven of us and the 
130 Orientation Counselors we hired will be there to 
answer your questions and make sure that this week 
is one of the most fun and memorable weeks you 
have at Carnegie Mellon.
Get excited for the journey ahead. You cannot be 
sure of where you will end up four or five years from 
now. There will certainly be ups and downs, but they 
will be well worth it, for no good story is without 
struggle. Rest assured that you will make some 
incredible friendships, gain great knowledge, and 
have a tale or two to tell as a result of your time here!
We are excited to see you off on your college journey, 
and we eagerly wait to see how your chapter fits into 
the ever-evolving Tartan Tale.
The 2012 HOCs,
Christina Brant, Eric Dietz, Michelle Guarino, 
Matt Ho, Sangita Sharma, Nadia Sheen, and 
Will Weiner
Courtesy of Will Weiner
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Im the first of my siblings 
to go to college, so my 
parents drove me up 
to school in their RV to 
move in. But now theyre 
refusing to leave. They 
told me they want to 
make sure I get settled 
and my dad keeps sliding 
me condoms and telling 
me to just use the RV 
if my roommate wont 
leave. How can I get rid of 
them?
Thanks,
Help! Elders Loiter 
Incredibly Conspicously, 
Offer Prophylactics 
Tirelessly, Embarrass 
Repeatedly
Dear HELICOPTER,
Just go ahead and hand 
this over to your parents. 
Theyre probably reading 
this anyway, since youre too 
busy hanging up those lame 
posters you carefully picked 
out so everyone would think 
youre cool and musical.
Mom and Dad, heres the 
deal. Your kids going to 
mess up... a lot. Let him. 
Nows the best time to do 
it. And youll have to do this 
for every kid, so get used 
to it. By the end, youll be 
kicking them out. I was the 
youngest of four, and my 
parents threw a party after 
I left; there was cake and 
champagne. Look at it this 
way: With all the kids out of 
the house, youll finally have 
some privacy. 
If all else fails, remember: 
When the vans a-rockin, 
dont come a-knockin,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Its the first day of 
Orientation, and Im really 
excited to meet all these 
new people! Orientation 
seems like so much fun, 
and I already LOVE my 
OCs! Do you have any tips 
for getting the most out of 
this week?
Thanks,
Desperately Interested 
Surrounding Orientation, 
Requesting Interesting, 
Entertaining, Necessary 
Tidbits, Encouragement, 
Direction
Dear DISORIENTED,
You need to know 
something: Orientation 
sucks. Since Im the only 
upperclassman youre going 
to hear from this week whos 
not either a) an Orientation 
Counselor or b) someone 
who came back to school 
early to try to sleep with firstyears (note that those two 
arent mutually exclusive), I 
have an obligation to lay it all 
out for you.
Really, most of the 
Orientation events are pretty 
boring. My best advice is 
to go to the events you find 
interesting and skip the rest.
Oh, and that trying to sleep 
with first-years part wasnt 
a joke. Just remember, 
condoms cost a quarter at 
Student Health.
But seriously, 
upperclassmen are 
creepy,
Patrick Hoskins 
(upperclassman)
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About getting rid of your parents and Orientation

---------------------------------------------------

4community
pillbox 08.19.12
This whole week, youll probably be inundated with 
information about Carnegie Mellon: how to use the Port 
Authority buses, how to get along with your roommate, 
and how to be prepared for your classes. While that 
information is important and useful, it doesnt really 
teach you how to deal with Carnegie Mellons unique 
idiosyncrasies. So here are a few tips on how to seem 
less like a ?rst-year (no offense) and more like a welladjusted member of the Carnegie Mellon community 
(youre welcome).
Dont bring your Segway indoors. Perhaps youre 
one of the few people at Carnegie Mellon who have a 
Segway; good for you. But do you really need to ride it 
through the University Center? You dont see anyone 
riding their bicycles indoors. Park it outside, please.
Do paint the fence. Youve probably already seen the 
Fence and heard all about it during your various campus 
tours. Its not overrated, though. Painting the Fence is an 
integral part of the Carnegie Mellon experience  and if 
nothing else, its probably the only time you can graf?ti 
a piece of public property without the risk of getting in 
trouble. Just make sure you follow the rules when you 
paint it.
Do be passionate. Chances are, in high school, you 
often had to tone down your love of LARPing or obscure 
British poets for fear that your peers would judge you. 
Well, its your lucky day  here at Carnegie Mellon, 
everyone has something speci?c and nerdy they love, 
so dont be afraid to tell your roommate about that great 
new anime you found online. Be careful, though  its 
good to be passionate, but... 
Dont make obscure references in conversation. 
You can usually take it for granted that whomever youre 
talking to reads xkcd and will understand Pokmon 
jokes. However, unless you know youre talking to a 
fellow Homestuck fan, please dont start speaking only in 
Homestuck references. It will just confuse people.
Do be quiet in the upper ?oors of the library. 
Its nickname may be Club Hunt, but it is still ?rst and 
foremost a library. If you want to take a break from 
studying and Skype loudly with one of your high school 
friends, do it somewhere else.
Dont sit by yourself at a large table on the 
University Centers second ?oor. Do you see how 
that table has ?ve chairs surrounding it? That means its 
supposed to have ?ve people sitting at it. There are a 
lot of other people who eat there, and if you take a large 
table to sit at by yourself, everyone else looking for a 
table will silently judge you.
Do know how to order food ef?ciently. This 
includes, but is not limited to: having your money ready 
when youve reached the checkout counter; knowing 
your order when you get to the front of the line at La 
Prima; and having your sandwich order ready when they 
ask for it at The Exchange. Youre all smart people. Just 
use common sense and be quick about it.
Do dump cheese onto your pasta at Pasta 
Villaggio. The pasta, be it with marinara, alfredo, or 
vodka sauce, can lack a little zing in this University 
Center eatery. For one, it needs more salt. Plus, it doesnt 
help that the cheese shaker at the counter has a problem 
letting the Parmesan fall out of those tiny holes. So dont 
feel bad if you have to open it up and pour some extra on 
your pasta, even if other people glare at you. Just know 
your food is going to taste wonderful.
Do leave the computer clusters and act sociable.
Yes, we know youre a computer science, engineering, 
or College of Fine Arts student. And ?ne, lets just agree 
that business and humanities students have a lot of 
work, too. But always sitting alone in the computer 
clusters isnt healthy. Go study with your friends or 
take a break and get some Razzy Fresh. Honestly, it is 
somewhat sad to see people at odd hours  for example, 
3 a.m. on a Friday night  working alone in a cluster. Do 
everyone a favor and go have some fun.
Do stand in line to get a free mug the next time 
someone donates millions of dollars to Carnegie 
Mellon. When Carnegie Mellon received a generous 
donation of $265 million dollars from Bill Dietrich last 
year, a lot of us missed out on the Thank you Bill 
glasses and other merchandise. Its a great souvenir. 
Those who got it know its sentimental value. And those 
who didnt, well, better luck next time.
Do go to social events with free food, but be social 
while youre there. There are plenty of barbecues 
and free dinners that will happen at the beginning of 
the semester. By all means, take advantage of the free 
food  you are a broke college student now, after all 
 but dont show up for the sole purpose of loading up 
a plate and leaving. Try talking to the members of the 
organization hosting the event. Even if youve never 
been interested in that activity before, give it a chance. 
You no longer have to be the person you were in high 
school; youre free to be interested in anything and 
everything. And even if you try an activity and dont like 
it, at least youll have met new people.
Anna Walsh | Staffwriter
Saakshi Gupta | Staffwriter
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor
Etiquette Guide: Look like you know what youre doing
Upperclassmen provide a few tips for seeming like a well-adjusted member of the CMU community
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 08.19.125
Paperhouse
On our campus station
Well hi, hi, hi there. My name is Alex Price, and I am the 
current general manager at WRCT Pittsburgh, Carnegie 
Mellons student-run radio station. In this weekly column, 
members of WRCTs staff will tell you about whimsical 
musical journeys and adventures, exciting music (old and 
new) that deserves your undivided attention, and whatever 
else strikes our fancy  that our editors will let us print.
Its a safe bet that everything and everyone on campus 
is competing for your attention, so Ill get to the point: If 
youre interested in just about anything, youll ?nd a home 
at WRCT.
WRCT, known as Radio Carnegie Tech in older times, 
has been around for more than 60 years. As a free-form 
radio broadcaster, we are committed to providing quality 
alternatives to the mainstream commercial programming 
that dominates the radio. Our DJs, public affairs hosts, 
and other staff members are not only Carnegie Mellon 
students, staff, and faculty but also community members 
from the Pittsburgh area, some of whom have more than 
30 years of radio broadcasting experience under their 
belts.
At WRCT, every DJ has the freedom to play the music 
of his or her choosing. So, whether youre interested 
in bleeps and bloops, kitchen sink recordings, local 
independent news programming, or Latin American 
culture, WRCT has a program for you.
If you want to learn more about what we do, well be 
on the Cut playing music during the beginning of the 
semester. Please stop by and introduce yourself; wed love 
to meet you and take you in as part of the radio family. 
To learn more about the membership process, email our 
training director Anna Bieberdorf at training@wrct.org.
Hope to see you soon.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
King Tuff  King Tuff
Deathspell Omega  Drought
Various Artists  Jalapeno Funk Vol. 4
Nickodemus  Moon People
Flaming Lips  The Flaming Lips and Heady Fwends
Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros  Here
Baroness  Yellow and Green
Various Artists  Fo(u)r Burials
Clarinet Trio  4
Sigur Rs  Valtari
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Music, culture abound in Downtown 
Cultural District home to vibrant musical attractions
Although it is often referred to as The Steel City, 
Pittsburgh has a lot more to offer than buildings 
and bridges; its ?lled with numerous entertainment 
options for students of all backgrounds and interests. 
With its expansive Cultural District, Pittsburgh is a 
hub for music, theater, and culture.
The Cultural District was developed and is operated 
by the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, a non-pro?t arts 
organization founded in 1984 and one of the major 
supporters of Pittsburghs cultural community. 
Thanks to the Cultural Trust, a once beaten-down 
district has become a prominent Mecca for arts 
lovers.
The Benedum Center, a 2,800-seat theater in the 
heart of the Cultural District, is one of its most 
impressive attractions. In 1928, the Benedum 
opened as the Stanley Theater; it was known as 
Pittsburghs Palace of Amusement and was 
intended to bring joy to those suffering during the 
Great Depression.
In 1984, the $43 million renovation of the Stanley 
to the Benedum became the Cultural Trusts ?rst 
project after its founding. The Byham Theater  
formerly the Gayety Theater  underwent a similar 
transformation in the 1990s, helping to turn the area 
into the vibrant district it is today.
The now 14-square-block Cultural District is situated 
in Downtown. It boasts a total of 90 shops, 50 
restaurants, and seven theaters, as well as several 
parks and art galleries, all intended for the promotion 
of local arts. There are endless entertainment 
possibilities in the district. Most notably, the 
Cultural District provides many venues intended for 
classical music. From stunning symphony concerts 
to outstanding opera performances, Pittsburgh has a 
vibrant classical scene that will appeal to any music 
lover.
The world-renowned Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra (PSO) has made a home at Heinz Hall, 
a 2,661-seat concert hall located at 600 Penn Ave. 
Throughout the year, the PSO presents both pop and 
classical concerts, ensuring that it offers something 
for everyone.
Recently, the PSO performed The Legend of Zelda: 
Symphony of the Goddesses, a musical presentation 
of one of the worlds most popular video game 
soundtracks. Among other performances, the 
upcoming season features Year of the Dragon 
celebrations, a concert featuring ?autist Lorna 
McGhee, a recital by Russian pianist Olga Kern, and 
a performance with Glee star Matthew Morrison at 
the end of September.
If youre interested in something more dramatic, the 
Pittsburgh Opera offers a different type of musical 
experience in the Benedum Center. This season, the 
Pittsburgh Opera will be presenting several classic 
operas, including Rigoletto, Don Giovanni, and 
Madama Butter?y.
In addition to the Pittsburgh Opera, the Benedum 
Center houses the PNC Broadway Across America 
series, which draws several Broadway productions 
to Pittsburgh each season. The lineup for this season 
includes Les Misrables, The Book of Mormon, and 
Anything Goes.
If youre looking for something fun to do with friends 
or just a night of exploring, you should consider 
attending a performance in Pittsburghs Cultural 
District. Not only will it be a memorable experience, 
but the trip to Downtown alone will help introduce 
you to the diverse history and wonderful city life in 
Pittsburgh. Theres much to do in this great city, and 
as ?rst-years, there are plenty of new experiences to 
be had.
Zachary Mendez | Staffwriter
For more information about the Cultural District, visit 
culturaldistrict.org. For Pittsburgh Opera information 
and student tickets, visit pittsburghopera.org.
File photo by Anna Walsh
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performs at 
Heinz Hall, one of the many concert halls located 
in the Cultural District.

---------------------------------------------------

food
pillbox 08.19.1276food
pillbox 08.19.12
Where to eat: Pittsburghs best bites
The Tartan presents its recommendations for the best food, on and off campus
With so many food options on campus and in Pittsburgh, 
its hard to know where to go and what to try. Thats 
why we, The Tartan staff, have decided to give you our 
recommendations. Based on a survey taken by 50 Tartan 
staffers, here are a few of our opinions on the best of 
Pittsburgh, both on and off campus. Happy eating!
ON CAMPUS
Coffee
Its tough to name the best coffee on campus; its easily 
disputable and everyone has his or her personal favorite. 
But we here at The Tartan believe that Tazza dOro 
takes the cake. Located on the fourth ?oor of the Gates 
Center, Tazza dOro only uses fair trade coffee beans 
and makes the best pastries. With a hip staff that plays 
great music, Tazza dOro is an on-campus escape from 
campus life  that is, until you have to wander into 
Gates 3000 to print your paper. If youre on the opposite 
side of campus, try La Prima, located on the ?fth ?oor of 
Wean Hall.
Quick breakfast
Depending on the line, The Exchange may not be 
the quickest option for breakfast. But if you have a few 
minutes to spare (and trust us, its worth getting to class 
two minutes late for), we highly recommend grabbing 
a breakfast sandwich on your way to class. If youre in 
more of a hurry, stop by Entropy+ and grab a yogurt or 
bagel to go.
Salads
For fresh salads made before your eyes, try Spinning 
Salads. Located on the second ?oor of the University 
Center, Spinning Salads has the best salads on campus. 
To be fair, the salads at The Exchange were a close 
second, but you cant beat the options available at 
Spinning Salads. Theres usually a long line around 
lunchtime, so try to go a little before or after the rush.
Sandwiches
Hands down, the best sandwiches on campus are 
made at The Exchange (formerly known as Gingers). 
The ridiculously long line should say it all, but in case 
there was any doubt, its well worth the wait. With an 
exceptionally friendly staff thats always willing to chat 
 when the lines not out the door, of course  The 
Exchange is the perfect place to meet friends for lunch 
or to grab a sandwich before class. The Exchange is 
located on the ?rst ?oor of Posner Hall (home to the 
Tepper School of Business), and all of its sandwiches are 
named after economic concepts. We recommend the 
Free Market.
Vegetarian and Vegan
Evgefstos consistently offers the best vegetarian and 
vegan food on campus, which makes sense since thats 
all it serves. Located on the second ?oor of the University 
Center, Evgefstos features a menu that changes 
daily, with lots of vegetables, tofu, and seitan as meat 
substitutes. We recommend the pizza. Evgefstos also has 
a lot of great gluten-free options.
Late night
Open until 2 a.m., Skibo Caf is one of the only places 
on campus to get your late-night ?x. It has a lot of food 
options  paninis, pasta, salads  and runs the full 
menu until it closes. With its convenient location (on 
the second ?oor of the University Center) and plenty of 
seating, Skibo is a great place to take a study break or 
just grab a bite to eat.
Hangover Cure
Hangovers happen to everyone. Luckily, a big breakfast 
at Schatz is all you need to feel alive again. The buffet 
style is perfect for a hungover appetite; you can get 
practically anything you want and as much of it as you 
want. Theres also ice cream. At breakfast. Need we say 
more? The only downside is that youre sure to see a few 
people from the party you were at last night, so consider 
taking a shower (or at least changing your clothes) 
before you stumble over there for breakfast.
OFF CAMPUS
Coffee
Aside from the conveniently located Starbucks on South 
Craig Street, Pittsburgh has some great coffee. We 
recommend trying Commonplace Coffeehouse in 
Squirrel Hill. Commonplace (located at 5827 Forbes Ave.) 
offers a wide variety of coffee blends and is the perfect 
spot to spend an afternoon sipping coffee and getting 
some homework done.
A close second, Coffee Tree Roasters also ?ts this bill. 
There are a few locations around the city, but the closest 
are in Shadyside (5524 Walnut St.) and Squirrel Hill (5840 
Forbes Ave.). The Shadyside location is a favorite among 
students and features a garage door wall that opens 
when the weather is nice, so its perfect on warm days.
Vegetarian and Vegan
For the vegetarians and vegans out there, we 
recommend Quiet Storm and Eat Unique. Quiet 
Storm, located in Bloom?eld at 5430 Penn Ave., features 
an all-vegetarian menu, with a lot of vegan and glutenfree options, and a quaint, comfortable decor. Even for 
non-vegetarians, Quiet Storm is an excellent place to 
grab lunch or dinner any day, except when its closed on 
Tuesdays.
Eat Unique is a favorite among students, thanks in 
part to its location on South Craig Street. Eat Unique 
is like Panera, but better. Offering a wide selection 
of sandwiches, soups, and salads made from fresh 
ingredients, Eat Unique has something for everyone 
(including your non-vegetarian friends).
Pizza
While Vocellis may seem like the only pizza option 
(because its the only pizza place that takes DineX), we 
recommend spending (actual) cash and trying Pizza 
Sola. Pizza Sola is a New York-style slice shop where you 
can stop by anytime to eat a slice in store or to pick up 
a pizza to go  sadly, they dont deliver. Its reasonably 
priced, and all of the pizza is baked on a stone. The 
nearest location is in Oakland (114 Atwood St.), but there 
are also stores in East Liberty and South Side.
Sweet Spot
When your sweet tooth kicks in, we recommend Razzy 
Fresh. With three convenient locations  in Squirrel Hill 
(1717 Murray Ave.), in Oakland (3533 Forbes Ave.), and 
at 300 S. Craig St.  all of your frozen yogurt needs are 
easily ful?lled. Fill your cup and adorn your yogurt with as 
many toppings as you please; youll never be unsatis?ed. 
If youre in the mood for ice cream, go to Dave & Andys 
in Oakland (207 Atwood St.). This small ice cream shop 
has been a Pittsburgh favorite since 1983 and offers a 
large selection of homemade ice cream ?avors.
When Your Parents Are in Town
Theres no better time to treat yourself to a nice meal 
than when your parents are in town (and theyre paying). 
We recommend taking them to Salt of the Earth. The 
?rst restaurant from chef Kevin Sousa, Salt offers a lot of 
vegetarian options and its menu is constantly changing 
to take advantage of seasonal availability of local produce. 
The ?rst ?oor of the restaurant features communal seating 
for walk-ins, and the mezzanine level is reservation-only. 
Salt, which is located at 5523 Penn Ave., was voted best 
new restaurant in 2011 by Pittsburgh Magazine. A word 
to the wise: Salt only has a few dessert items on its menu, 
but be sure to order one  you wont regret it.
OTHER WINNERS
Best Mexican: Mad Mex (370 Atwood St., 220 S. 
Highland Ave.)
Best Italian: Piccolo Forno (3801 Butler St.)
Best Chinese: Orient Express (4609 Forbes Ave.)
Best Thai: Bangkok Balcony (5846 Forbes Ave.)
Best Burgers, Best Milkshakes: BRGR (5997 Penn 
Circle South)
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Hungry yet?
The Tartan Barbecue
Saturday,  August 25
Noon
The Fence
*Vegetarian options will be available
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 08.19.1298community
pillbox 08.19.12
Pittsburgh may seem like a strange, fearsome place 
where the locals order french fries on their salads and 
where black and yellow Stillers paraphernalia cover 
every inch of store windows. But despite its regional 
quirks and sometimes unintelligible dialect, Pittsburgh 
is actually a manageable city, easily broken down into 
smaller neighborhoods, each with its own diverse set of 
attractions. From shoe shopping to museum hopping to 
ice cream tasting, Pittsburgh has a destination for your 
every whim  if you know where to look.
Downtown
The hulking metal bridges that stretch over the 
Allegheny River in Pittsburghs Downtown probably 
most closely re?ect what you already know about the 
Steel City. But hidden among the vestiges of Pittsburghs 
industrial past is the Cultural District, home to a few 
must-see gems.
Among the Cultural Districts offerings are the Benedum 
Center, where Broadway musicals often make their 
Pittsburgh stop; the OReilly Theater, where Pittsburgh 
Public Theater puts on its acclaimed (and studentdiscounted) plays; and the Byham Theater, where 
students can see everything from musicals to dance 
troupes to comedians. At Heinz Hall, home of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, music-loving students 
can dress up for the evening and enjoy the sounds of an 
excellent orchestra.
While not technically in Downtown, a quick hop across 
the Allegheny takes you to the North Shore, home of 
the Andy Warhol Museum, which features an extensive 
collection of the Pittsburgh-born artists work, and the 
New Hazlett Theater, a great place to take in offbeat 
plays and performances. But be warned: Most Pittsburgh 
buses stop running after midnight or 1 a.m., so plan your 
trip wisely.
Strip District
The Strip District is one of Pittsburghs busiest and most 
eclectic neighborhoods. Running for half a mile along 
Liberty Avenue, Penn Avenue, and Smallman Street, the 
Strip is crowded with upscale boutiques, family-owned 
businesses, sidewalk vendors  and people, on any nice 
weekend day. Check out Costume World for an awesome 
get-up this Halloween, stop by Mon Aimee Chocolat for 
an in-store mug of cocoa or a candy bar to go, or pick up 
hard-to-?nd Asian groceries at Lotus Foods. If youre in a 
spontaneous mood, stop by one of the sidewalk stalls for 
a funny hat, or go native and buy a Steelers T-shirt.
The South Side
Lined with shops ranging from Urban Out?tters and 
American Eagle to White House Black Market, the South 
Side is an ideal destination for the casual weekend 
shopper or the desperate last-minute gift seeker. While 
its a haven for shoppers, the South Side is also popular 
among movie-theater goers or students seeking a rare 
off-campus meal at restaurants like the Cheesecake 
Factory. For the over-21 crowd, South Side is one of the 
most popular nightlife areas in town, with tons of bars 
and clubs.
Oakland
Only steps from campus, Oakland is an easy walk down 
Forbes Avenue into the epicenter of Pittsburghs college 
life. This bustling strip of Forbes is just as vibrant after 
dark as it is at high noon: Joe Mamas, Fuel and Fuddle, 
and Mad Mex are among the local restaurants that offer 
tasty half-price food after 11 p.m. on week nights.
Cheap food is not the only attraction that Oakland has 
to offer. A trip to the Carnegie Museum of Art or the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is the perfect 
cure for a lazy Saturday; plus, admission is free with 
your student ID. And, of course, Oakland is home to our 
neighbor, the University of Pittsburgh, and on-campus 
destinations like the magni?cent 42-?oor Cathedral of 
Learning.
Squirrel Hill
A favorite among students because of the convenient 
trip  a short ride on any 61 bus  Squirrel Hill is 
a charming neighborhood with tons of restaurants, 
shopping, and residential areas. On warm days, in 
particular, theres no better place to be than Squirrel Hill. 
With Ritas Italian Ice, Cold Stone Creamery, and BaskinRobbins all within a few blocks of each other, its the 
perfect place to cool off.
If youre interested in thrifting, check out Avalon, an 
upscale used-clothing store with lots of little treasures. 
Exploring Pittsburgh: a beginners guide
Discover what Pittsburghs diverse neighborhoods have to offer
Want to take in a movie? The Manor Theatre showcases 
a mix of indie ?lms, big-budget blockbusters, and Oscar 
contenders. And to satisfy your appetite, theres Pamelas 
Diner, which has one of the best breakfasts in town.
Shadyside
Many students call Shadyside their home, whether they 
live there or just frequent its coffee shops and bars. 
Shadyside is a popular neighborhood thats just a short 
walk from campus. In the midst of residential streets, 
its main drag of shops is on Walnut Street. Attractions 
include upscale stores  American Apparel, Banana 
Republic, Sephora, and the Apple Store  and excellent 
restaurants, including Girasole and Eden.
Want to beat the heat, but in the mood for something 
a little classier than Baskin-Robbins? Try Mercurios, 
Shadysides gelato-and-pizza joint. And if you need 
groceries, Giant Eagles Market District is a short bus 
ride away. Shadyside is a great neighborhood to spend an 
afternoon, whether youre shopping or just admiring its 
beautiful homes.
East Liberty
This up-and-coming neighborhood borders Shadyside 
and Friendship. Its main landmark is the East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church, a Gothic-style church built in the 
early 1930s. Featuring shopping hotspots like Trader 
Joes and Target, East Liberty is becoming a destination 
neighborhood for many locals.
The area is also home to many fantastic restaurants, 
including Abay and Tana, the only two Ethiopian 
restaurants in Western Pennsylvania; BRGR, a burger joint 
with open air seating upstairs; and Plum, an Asian-fusion 
restaurant. The neighborhood is also becoming a hub for 
live music, with popular clubs including Shadow Lounge, 
AVA Lounge, and the newly-opened 6119.
Bloom?eld/Friendship
The Little Italy of Pittsburgh, Bloom?eld is situated 
north of Shadyside. In addition to the excellent bakeries 
and Italian restaurants in Bloom?eld, the neighborhood is 
home to a number of art galleries that participate in the 
Penn Avenue Art Walk that happens every ?rst Friday 
of the month in Bloom?eld and Friendship, an adjacent 
neighborhood. Friendship is similar to Bloom?eld, with a 
number of beautiful old homes that have been converted 
into apartments.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Madelyn Glymour | News Editor
Saakshi Gupta | Staffwriter
Adelaide Cole | Art Editor
File Photo by Alexandre Kaspar
This view of Downtown is from Pittsburghs North Shore, a neighborhood located just across the Allegheny River.

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 08.19.12
At Carnegie Mellon you will receive a world-class 
education, work with amazing professors, and do a good 
bit of hard work. And while these things may seem like 
the most important parts of college, they dont come 
close to de?ning the Tartan experience.
For those whose hearts are in the work, the quirky 
traditions at Carnegie Mellon are more de?nitive of 
Tartan culture than its academic aspects are. While the 
following list is far from comprehensive, these traditions 
are arguably the most important factors in shaping 
students identities and experiences. Welcome to the 
Tartan family.
Playfair
During Orientation week, there are tons of events meant 
to help ?rst-years bond with fellow classmates. No event 
does this better than Playfair, a once-in-a-CarnegieMellon-lifetime experience where students get the 
chance to meet and interact with practically everyone 
in their class. With a number of games and minicompetitions, Playfair is a memory-making activity and a 
chance to start friendships that could last a lifetime.
The Kiltie Band
Proudly and affectionately known as the band that wears 
no pants, the Kiltie Band is Carnegie Mellons of?cial 
marching band. Founded in 1908, the band performs in 
full Scottish regalia  kilts, knee socks, and all  and 
is known for its colorful, nerdy cheers and anti-cheers. 
Under the direction of music professor Paul Gerlach, the 
Kiltie Band entertains the crowd during home football 
games and during spring and winter concerts. At 
halftime during Carnegie Mellons Homecoming game, 
the band performs its famous Scatter Show.
Growing from seven members at its inception to over 
130 members today, the Kiltie Band is a staple of 
Carnegie Mellon culture, and it is open to all who wish to 
join, regardless of musical experience.
Bagpipes
Both Andrew Carnegie and Andrew Mellon were of 
Scottish descent, and the culture of their homeland is 
alive and well here. In addition to being one of very few 
universities in the U.S. to offer degrees  bachelors and 
masters  in bagpiping, Carnegie Mellon is also home 
to Carnegie Mellon Pipes and Drums, a competitive 
bagpipe band.
The band is currently under the direction of Andrew 
Carlisle, one of the worlds leading pipers and the 
director of piping in Carnegie Mellons School of Music. 
Made up of students, faculty, and alumni, Carnegie 
Mellon Pipes and Drums can be seen  and heard  on 
warm Monday nights on the Cut.
Spring Carnival
The light at the end of the dark winter tunnel, Spring 
Carnival is regarded as Carnegie Mellons oldest 
tradition. Taking place about a week before spring 
semester ?nals, Spring Carnival is comprised of four 
main parts: Midway, Booth, Mobots, and Sweepstakes/
Buggy, along with a celebrity comedian performance, a 
large outdoor concert, and a ?reworks show.
On Midway  traditionally located in the parking 
lot behind Morewood Gardens  you will ?nd the 
necessities of any good fair, including rides, carnival 
food, and games. What makes Midway unique, however, 
are the booths: oneand two-story wooden structures 
built from the ground up by students in various 
organizations and clubs. Each year, the Spring Carnival 
Committee chooses a theme and booths are built to 
creatively re?ect it, with prizes awarded to the very best. 
Past themes include History With a Twist, When I Was 
Your Age, and As Seen on TV. Midway is also the site 
of the comedy show.
The curious white lines in front of Wean Hall arent part 
of some abstract art piece; they are part of the course 
for yet another Carnegie Mellon tradition: Mobots. Also 
known as Mobile Robots, Mobots are student-built 
autonomous robots designed to read the white lines and 
navigate the course. Initiated in 1994, Mobot racing has 
become an annual Spring Carnival event.
The pice de rsistance of Spring Carnival, and perhaps 
the most sacred of all Carnegie Mellon traditions, is 
Buggy. In a nutshell, a buggy is a cross between a 
soapbox car and a luge racer. Once large and boxy, these 
student-built racers are now sleek and aerodynamic 
cylinders that have raced at every Spring Carnival since 
1920 in an event known as Sweepstakes. On the day of 
competition, buggies are pushed and driven in a relaystyle race along the backside of campus on a course 
over 4,000 feet long. Todays buggies have clocked in at 
over 30 miles per hour. Sweepstakes brings out ?erce 
competition among racers and non-racers alike and 
creates rivalries that last well after graduation.
The Fence
As legend has it, the Fence was built in 1923 to replace a 
bridge that used to span a ravine running along the Cut. 
The bridge brought together the gender-divided campus 
 male Carnegie Tech students and female Margaret 
Morrison students  and was a popular place for 
students to mingle. Ever since, the Fence has served as 
the central spot for advertising on campus and remains a 
common meeting place.
According to university rules, the Fence must be painted 
in its entirety between midnight and 6 a.m. and can be 
painted only with hand brushes. In addition, it must be 
guarded at all times by a member of the group that most 
recently painted the Fence in order to keep that groups 
message up. It is unwritten etiquette that if another 
organization needs the Fence, it is turned over to that 
group or shared between groups.
The steeland concrete-cored Fence on the Cut today 
is not the original; its a replacement erected after the 
original collapsed under its own weight in 1993. With 
over six inches of paint, the original fence holds the 
Guinness World Record for being the most painted 
object.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
For an extended list of campus traditions, visit us online 
at thetartan.org.
Unconventional traditions central to CMU experience
Make the most of your college days by embracing these long-standing traditions
Taking place in front of Wean Hall, the Mobot races 
have become an exciting part of Spring Carnival.
File photo by Jonathan Carreon
Last years Spring Carnival featured a live performance 
by pop band Passion Pit, sponsored by AB Concerts.
File photo by Patrick Gage Kelley

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 08.19.1211
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
doghousediaries@gmail.com
A Different Approach to Shazam by Doghouse Diaries
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 08.19.12
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
  Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 08.19.1213
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.knobelfieber.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 08.19.12
1. Balkan native
2. Et ____ (and other men)
3. Hay stack
4. Burst open
5. D.C. VIP
6. Sweet sandwich
7. ___-garde
8. Cash in
9. As above
10. Drinks slowly
11. Brio
12. Antitoxins
14. Frying pan
20. PBS benefactor
24. Healing plants
26. Dallas player, briefly
27. Be silent, in music
28. French school
29. ___ a million
30. Emcees job
32. Latin stars
33. Aromatic wood
34. Its a plus
37. Organization
41. Diabolical
44. Move forward
45. Cinque follower
47. Licentious
49. True skin
51. ___-pitch softball
53. Actress Witherspoon
55. Answered a charge
56. Ethereal: Prefix
57. Quarter, e.g.
59. Highland hillside
61. Lady of Spain
62. Former Fords
63. Relaxation
66. Bottle lid
1. Reddish-brown gem 
5. Fly
9. Employs
13. Writer Wiesel
14. Open a tennis match
15. Roofing item
16. Having wealth
17. Mix dough
18. Box
19. Two-piece bathing suit
21. Washington bill
22. Annapolis inst.
23. Actress Ward
25. Office fill-in
27. Aztec temple
31. Gourd-shaped rattle
35. Clearasil target
36. Seemingly forever
38. Urns
39. Cedar Rapids college
40. French beans?
42. NFL scores
43. Inventor Howe
46. Mex. miss
47. Dies ___
48. Cared for
50. Outwit
52. Contender
54. Inner surface of the hand
55. Tailless rodent
58. Yanks foe
60. Dried strip of egg dough
64. Boxer Spinks
65. Paris thanks
67. Roster used to assign duties
68. Slang expert Partridge
69. Sir ___ Newton was an 
 English mathematician
70. No ifs, ___...
71. Take a meal
72- Leak slowly
73- Emit coherent light 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Make a promise to yourself that you will try to be as happy 
and carefree during the school year as you are right now. 
Dont let the mountain of work stop the good times.
taurus
april 20may 20
With all the construction going on in Hunt library, you should 
stake out your study spot. Claim your real estate now and 
sell it to the upperclassmen later.
gemini
may 21june 21
Skip the Clippership  trust me, its not your style.
cancer
june 22july 22
Enthusiasm and love for your dorm is a beautiful thing, 
but please try to limit the number of days you come to 
class dressed for House Wars. Leave the blue leg and the 
pineapple in your room.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Dont skip Orientation Week activities because you think 
that theyre lame and that youre too cool to attend. 
The events may be a bit cheesy, but since youre now a 
Carnegie Mellon student, you are by no means too cool.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Yes, your RA and HOC may be hot. No, you should not try 
to make a move on them. Yes, this rule expires in about 
two months.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Be wise and create a calendar specifically for the free food 
events on campus. Plan early, eat well, and save money.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Beware of the snowman sculpture and the people on 
Walking to the Sky. They may not look like Weeping Angels, 
but that doesnt mean they are to be trusted.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You will be welcomed with open arms on the Clippership. 
Stay classy.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
The first week of college is a time to reinvent yourself. Be 
the person you want to be, not the person you think others 
will like.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Worshipping a professor is a full-time job that requires lots 
of outside work. Make sure you limit your obsession to one 
professor or your other grades will suffer.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You were that kid in high school, werent you? You know, 
the one who... you know. Its time to decide if those habits 
and behaviors will stay with you while youre at Carnegie 
Mellon.Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 08.19.1215
SUNDAY8.19.12
Student Affairs Welcome and Overview of Student 
Services. McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
10:45 a.m.
Student Services Resource Fair. Kirr Commons, 
University Center. 11 a.m.
Mellon College of Science Welcome Program. 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. Noon.
Dietrich College Welcome Program. Baker Lawn Tent. 
1 p.m.
Fraternity and Sorority Information Session. Connan 
Room, University Center. 1 p.m.
School of Computer Science Welcome Program. 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 1:15 p.m.
School of Architecture Welcome Program. Gregg Hall 
(Porter Hall 100). 1:30 p.m.
School of Art Welcome Program. Margaret Morrison 
103. 1:30 p.m.
School of Design Welcome Program. Margaret 
Morrison A14. 1:30 p.m.
School of Drama Welcome Program. Philip Chosky 
Theater, Purnell Center. 1:30 p.m.
School of Music Welcome Program. Kresge Hall, 
College of Fine Arts. 1:30 p.m.
Tepper School of Business Welcome Program. 
Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. 1:30 p.m.
Carnegie Institute of Technology Welcome Program. 
Baker Lawn Tent. 2:15 p.m.
Student Affairs Welcome and Overview of Student 
Services. McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 2:30 
p.m.
BXA Meet and Greet. Margaret Morrison A11. 2:30 
p.m.
Temporary Housing Residents Meeting. Connan 
Room, University Center. 2:30 p.m.
Transfer and Commuter Students Dessert 
Reception. Danforth Lounge, University Center. 3 p.m.
Presidents Address. Baker Lawn Tent. 4 p.m.
MONDAY8.20.12
House Day Orientation Programs. 8 a.m.
Playfair. The Cut (Rain site: Wiegand Gymnasium, 
University Center). 8:30 p.m.
TUESDAY8.21.12
Making Your Mark at Carnegie Mellon (for 
Morewood E-Tower, Stever, and Mudge residents 
and commuter students). Rangos Ballroom, University 
Center. 11 a.m.
Making Your Mark at Carnegie Mellon (for 
Hamerschlag, Boss, McGill, Scobell, Welch, 
Henderson, Donner, and Residence on Fifth 
residents). Rangos Ballroom, University Center. 2 p.m.
Project Olympus: CMUs Startup Incubator. Dowd 
Room, University Center. 3:30 p.m.
A Conversation with Herb Simon  A Nobel 
Laureate Who Spent Half a Century at Carnegie 
Mellon. McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 3:30 
p.m.
The Environment @ CMU. Alumni Lounge, University 
Center. 3:30 p.m., 4:15 p.m.
Explore the World! How Study Abroad Can Work for 
You. Connan Room, University Center. 4 p.m.
First-Year Showcase Auditions. Baker Lawn Tent. 4:30 
p.m.
Craig Karges, Mentalist. Baker Lawn Tent. 8:30 p.m.
Greek Gala and Desserts with the Greeks. Kirr 
Commons, Rangos, Connan, and McKenna/Peter/Wright, 
University Center. 10 p.m.
WEDNESDAY8.22.12
Under the In?uence (for Hamerschlag, Scobell, 
Boss, McGill, Welch, and Henderson residents). 
Rangos Ballroom, University Center. 10 a.m.
Under the In?uence (for Morewood E-Tower and 
Residence on Fifth residents). McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. 10 a.m.
Under the In?uence (for Stever House and Mudge 
residents and commuter students). Rangos Ballroom, 
University Center. 1 p.m.
Under the In?uence (for Donner residents). 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 1 p.m.
Ballroom Dance Barbeque. The Fence. 3 p.m.
First-year Showcase Auditions. Baker Lawn Tent. 3:30 
p.m.
THURSDAY8.23.12
Academic Orientation. Varies by college. 8:30 a.m.
Convocation. Baker Lawn Tent. 5 p.m.
Board buses for Clippership Cruise. Forbes Avenue in 
front of Morewood parking lot. 6:45 p.m.
FRIDAY8.24.12
House Day Service: Make an Impact. Varies by 
residence. 9 a.m.
CMJew2012. The Fence and the Cut. Noon.
Qatar Campus Open House. The Doha Room, Resnik 
Caf. 2 p.m.
SoHo Open House. Room 325, University Center. 3:30 
p.m.
House Wars. The Cut. 7:30 p.m.
Late Night. Kirr Commons, University Center. 10 p.m.
Activities Board Comedy Presents: Charlyne Yi. 
Rangos Ballroom, University Center. 10:30 p.m.
SATURDAY8.25.12
First-year Showcase Rehearsal. Baker Lawn Tent. 11 
a.m.
Ballroom Dancing Lessons. Rangos Ballrooms 2 and 
3, University Center. 2 p.m.
Kiltie Band Information Session. Connan Room, 
University Center. 2 p.m.
What is Buggy? Connan Room, University Center. 3:30 
p.m.
First-Year Showcase and Slide Show of Orientation 
2012. Baker Lawn Tent (Rain site: Rangos Ballroom, 
University Center). 8:30 p.m.
Bhangra and Desserts. First ?oor, University Center. 
10:30 p.m.
SUNDAY8.26.12
South Asian Barbeque. The Fence (Rain site: Donner 
House Reading Room). 12:30 p.m.
Inter-Fellowship Association Barbeque. The Fence. 
3 p.m.
Free Ritas Italian Ice, Music, and Games with the 
Fraternities and Sororities. Greek Quad, Morewood 
Avenue (Rain site: Rangos Ballroom, University Center). 4 
p.m.
The Architect, The Innovator, & the Dreamer: 
A University Lecture Series Kickoff. McConomy 
Auditorium, University Center. 7 p.m.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 08.19.12
Patrick Gage Kelley | Senior Photographer
Pittsburgh venues hosted tons of great concerts this summer, a sign that more bands are making 
stops in the city. Clockwise from top left: Balam Acab played an intimate show at the Beach House 
in Shadyside, at a show hosted by VIA; of Montreal performed at the Altar Bar in the Strip District; 
and fun. played at Stage AE on the North Shore.
summer concerts.
