February 10, 1972, Volume 72/Number 4
4! FREE PRESS
Reprinted from: THE CLARION CALL
SPOCK
Dr. Benjamin Spock wont be pushing pablum when he comes to speak to CMU next 
Thursday in Skibo Ballroom at 2:30 p.m. 
He will speak on the Need For Radical
Action.
>Although best known as a mild-mannered 
pediatrician, Dr. Spock has demonstrated 
his willingness to back up his beliefs with 
action. His stand-in presidential candidacy 
for the Peoples Party this year culminates 
more than a decade of activities which have 
won him world respect and admiration.
In the 1960s, Dr. Spock became active 
in the peace and disarmament movement. 
In 1963, he was chosen co-chairman of the 
National Committee For a Sane Nuclear 
Policy.
In 1968, as a member of the Boston 
Five, he was convicted on charges of con
spiring to counsel evasion of the draft and 
sentenced to two years in prison. An ap
peals court later overturned the conviction.
Spocks visit comes on the second day 
|of a 3-week long drive to get the Peoples 
Party on the ballot in Pennsylvania, where
36,000 valid petition signatures are re
quired before March 8th. Groups have been 
formed in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Erie 
and on several college campuses around the 
state to conduct that drive. The effort to 
secure a ballot position is one part of a 
plan to build permanent progressive party 
V". Pennsylvania. Similar campaigns will 
take place in every state where progressive 
parties are not on the ballot.
The Peoples Party, founded over 
Thanksgiving inDallas Texas, is a national 
Coalition of independent third parties and 
nun-electoral groups from several states 
throughout the country. Major compo
nents include the Peace and Freedom Par
itywhich ran Spock and Gregory for vicepresident and president and McCarthys in
dependent candidacy that same year.
The Peoples Party is working to build a 
national, non-electoral force for change in 
America, as well as to provide a progressive 
alternative in November.
Anyone interested in the local campaign 
sh"u!d call Steve Clare at 242-2372 or 
|Write to The Peoples Party P.O. Box 8128, 
pgh, pa. 15217.
Freedom of the Press has always been 
an important freedom in the United States 
and it finally seems that this freedom has 
been extended to all forms of publications, 
including the long-abused school 
newspapers. Or has it?
How much power can, for example, a 
college president exercise over the student 
publication? One Western Pennslyvania 
school found out in a sudden hurry.
In February of 1971, the Rocket of 
Slippery Rock College became a victim of 
blatant censorship. The president of that 
institution froze the funds to the news
paper because he said that it had a front 
page that put an unfavorable view of the 
President of the United States. He felt that 
under Act 13, which gives the president 
conmplete control of the college for the 
good of the institution, that he had the 
right to do so.
However, the students of the Rocket 
felt that the president of the college had a 
different reason. A story which told of a 
student busted for possession of marijuana 
in which common legal procedures were 
not followed was the sore sport. The staff 
offered the administration an opportunity 
to reply to the students accusations, but 
there was no answer forthcoming.
After freezing the funds, the president 
asked the staff to submit to him: a state
ment of the editorial policy; a policy for 
the selection of staff members; a change in 
the advisor. The staff members refused on 
all three points and the president in turn 
refused to relinquish any funds.
Two more issues were printed on private 
funds but they were soon used and there 
hasnt been a paper since.
However, the administration has been 
busy. Over the summer, a Media Board was 
established and after a brief, but hostile 
encounter with the old staff of the Rocket, 
the board members went to work. Their 
job? To select a new staff with the appro
val of the president and get the ball rol
ling.
The job is almost completed. In three to 
four weeks, a new Rocket with a new staff 
will be circulated through the Slippery 
Rock campus -- the first issue in 11 month.
But what about the American Bill of 
Rights which guarantees freedom of the 
press?
The American Civil Liverties Union sent 
two representatives to Slippery Rock re
cently and when they announced to the 
president that his action was in direct viola
tion of the American Constitution, he re
plied that he was only using the power 
delegated him by Act 13. An Act, which 
one Rocket spokesman says, opens a Pan
doras Box for State College presidents.
ACLU is trying to bring the matter to 
court, but what compounds the issue is the 
fact that the Student Government Associa
tion backs the administration. The Roc
kets only hope is the people higher up 
the ladder.
Until then, it seems that the new Roc
ket will be the official newspaper of Slip
pery Rock State College. Officially.
COGMECMU's most visible connection with the 
military-industrial complex currently is ac
tively involved in a major minority group 
recruitment program. GSIA, the local cen
ter for mathematical models and opera
tions research, is one of ten major Ameri
can business schools associated with the 
Council for Opportunities in Graduate 
Management Education (COGME). The 
program is designed to make minority 
group under-graduates aware of opportu
nities in high-level managerial positions. 
Quick and high returns are expected by 
COGME as its fellows graduate and quickly 
rise to positions of great influence and vis
ibility in both public and private sectors.
The Council, that was originally funded 
with $5 million by the Sloan Foundation, 
grants fellowships to Americans of Chinese, 
Japanese, Spainish, and Black ancestry. 
Applicants must already be accepted by 
one to the ten schools which include GSIA 
and the business schools at the University 
of Chicago, Harvard, Columbia, Stanford, 
University of Pennsylvania, Dartmouth, 
Berkely, MIT, and Cornell.
Sam Hall of GSIA, one of COGMEs 
student trustees, reports that until two 
years ago, GSIA had graduated only four 
Blacks in its history. Four Black COGME 
fellows will graduate from the schools in
dustrial administration program this year 
alone. While he believes that increased 
Black enrollment has made him feel more 
comfortable, Hall believes that individual 
competance is the main criteria for social 
acceptance at GSIA. The program has had 
a greater impact at schools like Harvard, 
claims Hall. There are over 100 COGME 
fellows distributed among the ten schools. 
At present one half of minority group stu
dents at the cooperating schools are sup
ported by COGME, while others are selfsupporting or the beneficiaries of other 
programs.
The fellowships are awarded by 
COGMEs selection committee of which 
Bernard Goldsmith, associate dean pf GSIA 
is chairman. The grants are made on the 
basis of the applicants leadership poten
tial, career goals and academic record. The 
program does not support professional stu
dents, but searches for potential managers 
with clearly defined career goals. Gold
smith claims that, it doesnt matter whet
her the student has his eyes set on Dow 
Chemical or the City of Pittsburgh. The 
applicants community service and extra
curricular activities are considered to be 
strong indicators of his or her successful 
leadership potential. The monetary grants 
that go along with the fellowships are 
based on financial need.
The Council conducts active recruiting 
programs, especially at campuses where 
previously there has been little or no busi
ness school and corporate recruiting. From 
stressing graduate school attributes and 
supplying free business boards testing, they 
expect to attract highly capable minority 
group members. Current fellows are also 
given budgets with which to finance their 
own recruitment efforts.
Information concerning COGME can be 
obtained through any of the 10 schools.
VOTE
People who wish to register to vote in 
the Pennsylvania Presidential primary must 
register before March 6. A new voter in 
Allegheny County may register at field lo
cations or at the Elections Bureau in the 
County Office Building. Those desiring to 
register for the April 25th primary must be 
U.S. citizens, must have been born on or 
before April 26, 1954, must have lived in 
Pennsylvania on or before January 26th 
and in their election districts on or before 
February 25th.
Had any lately?
Bob Stern
Monday evening, Dr. Louis Meyers, a 
gynecologist working at Magee Womens 
Hospital paid a visit to the CMU campus. 
His trip was sponsored by various student 
organizations. The topic of his lecture was 
Sex Education on Campus, but the bulk 
of his talk related to birth control specifi
cally. After a brief introduction in which 
he explained basic sexual functions of the 
body, he dwelt mainly on the topic of 
female contraception. Unfortunately, the 
lecture was not well publicized and drew 
only about twenty people, including sever
al house mothers and the Deans of women 
and men. The audience was composed 
 nearly entirely of females, with only three 
men in attendance besides myself.
Dr. Meyers presentation was extremely 
well done and informative. He covered 
many methods of contraception and the 
merits and drawbacks of each. He spoke 
about gonorrhea-its symptoms, effects and 
cures.
As the lecture drew only a small audien
ce for such an important subject, there 
follows some of the information given by 
Dr. Meyers. So far as contraception goes, at 
present, the most effective method is the 
pill. Less than one percent of its users 
become pregnant. It is dispensed in a con
tainer which facilitates remembrance of its 
ingestion by naming the days right on the 
package. Its drawbacks, however, are found 
in its varied side effects. Such effects as 
skin problems, weight gains and nausea are 
possible. Another major drawback is that 
for some users, to half intake of the pill is 
to end their menstrual cycles for good and 
prohibit future pregnancy. The intra-uterine device (IUD) is another rather effective 
method of contraception, with a rate of 
efficiency only slightly less than that of the 
pill. The disadvantages to the IUD include 
high price (it must be inserted by a physi
cian), the possibility of cramps and some 
unusual menstrual flow during early 
months of wear. The diaphragm is another 
effective means of birth control, when used 
in conjunction with spermicidal cream or 
continued on pg. 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
Letters:editors note
We havent heard much about the Commission on the Status and Needs 
of Women since it appeared several months ago. There is at least one good 
reason for that silencethe inertia of the Administrative Action Commit
tee (A AC) appointed by Dr. Stever to update and revise the Affirmative 
Action programs.
To help the A AC get started, Dr. Stever appointed a Monitoring 
Committee representing students, staff and faculty to present priorities 
for action. These priorities were outlined and presented to the Committee 
by memo on December 3, 1971. Although none seem unreasonable, and 
many could be implemented without expense, none have been acted 
upon.
The three members of the A AC are Dean Swank, Vice President 
Strathmeyer and Dr. Schatz, each of whom is in a position to help 
alleviate sexual discrimination. Not one has taken positive action, and 
they have been misleading and uncooperative.
Ah, you mutter, a woman on the rampage, stamping her feet impatient
ly because change isnt happening overnight. Yes, it does take time, but it 
takes a lot less time if effort is made.
Let us look first at Dean Swanks record. As Dean of Student Affairs, 
he is in the prime position to help women students. Rather, he has led us 
to believe that everything is quite rosey by giving us false, misleading 
information. He said that male and female counselors are paid equally - 
women are not paid; men earn $180 per month. Although there is a 
waiting list for Welsh Hall, he said there was no desire for co-ed housing. 
More recently, he dismissed as irrelevant a WDC-MDC survey of housing 
options, disclaiming the existence of a renovations fund on which the 
survey was based. He said he would do his own survey at the end of 
February. This is, of course, too late for next years budget.
Mr. Strathmeyer could help relieve staff grievances. Distribution of job 
descriptions, a simple request, has been avoided. Over 7 00 staff (women) 
members earn under the minimum salaries for their job grade. Although 
discussion was requested, pension plans went directly to the administra
tion.
Finally there is Dr. Schatz, now in the highest administrative position. 
His attitude is best summarized in a clever quip from a speech about 
implementation of the Commissions demands. Change threatensinstant 
change threatens instantly.  Instead of developing positive steps (investi
gating sex intimidation or unging active recruitment of faculty), Schatz 
enumerates the difficulties involved. His reasonsCMU is a mans institu
tion, CMU cannot compromise its quality of faculty or programs (women 
constitute a compromise?) and money shortage.
These are the men who are supposed to develop corrective programs 
for the problems of CMUs women. They dont seem to be trying very 
hard.
The women of CMU have had enough of committes, talks and recom
mendations. It is time for action. We want equal pay for men and women. 
We want information available on jobs, pensions and fringe benefits. We 
want active recruitment of female students and faculty. We want equal 
housing costs and benefits for men and women students. We want gyneco
logical services available. We want housing options.
Dr. Stever said that some innovations could be inplemented immediate
ly, and that others should be begun on a schedule with a given target date. 
His words were not heeded. Dr. Schatz said that slow implementation may 
be viewed by some as "male chauvinistic foot-dragging.  In my opinion, it 
is, and I am tired of it.
Editor:
It recently came to my attention that 
Professor Paul Garver will be fired at the 
end of this semester. It is also my under
standing that Garvers dismissal is against 
the wishes of the History Department, and 
is an action taken by the Dean of H&SS, 
Dean Steinberg.
I question the motives of this action in 
taking away from the students a popular 
teacher, and what I consider a relevant 
course. If the purpose of the university is 
to give the student an exposure to a wide 
range of ideas, then I think that Paul Gar
ver and his ideas should stay at CMU.
Also I question the whole system of 
shring, firing and promotion of faculty at 
CMU. Should not the prime consideration 
be given to the students, and therefore the 
teachers performance in the classroom 
weighed heavily? I dont think this is 
usually the case.
Dave Stobbe
Editor:
Our university, dedicated as it is to 
academic excellence, has offered an award 
for outstanding teaching ability since 1961
when one of our alumni endowed CMU 
with monies for just this purpose. This 
award, woth $200 to the recipient,is 
appropriately called the Ryan Teaching 
Award, after William H. and Frances S. 
Ryan.
I am dismayed, however, to find that 
only one such award is offered for 
teaching. Perhaps this is an accurate 
reflection of the old teaching vs. research 
controversy. Perhaps not.
Regardless, I suggest that the student 
body, via funds available through student 
government, set up a similar fund to show 
our active concern for the kind of teaching 
that takes place here, and to encourage 
high standards of teaching.
The two major differences between the 
Ryan Award and the student award are (1) 
students would provide sole financial 
support and (2) students would be 
influential in the selection of the recipient 
of the award. (Students presently have no 
input for the Ryan award.)
I would appreciate any feedback or 
criticism on this idea soon, via Skibo 
information desk.
Terri L. Zaluska
Editor:
The JAnuary 1972 UNIVERSITY RE
PORT, just published, informs us that the 
Planning Council of the Faculty Senate has 
proposed some new organisational struc
tures for the University.
Among the suggestions of the Council, 
we are thus informed, are: That one MAN 
assume the duties of both the inside and 
outside president (emphasis supplied by 
me).
This quote again emphasizes the repeat
ed, widespread assumption here that wo
men are not to be considered for important 
and responsible positions of leadership.
Will this University not abandon its 
gross invidious attitude of discrimination 
against women?
Thomas M. Kerr 
Lecturer in Industrial 
Administration and Law
Editor:
Reading through Palsos film comments 
of January 27, I was appalled by the fol
lowing sexist statement: this film never
theless shows the guys what happens when 
you treat the chicks as the liberated beings 
they like to think they are.
I fail to understand how THE TARTAN 
(with a female editor) allowed the column 
to be printed, or how we, the readers, can 
be expected to take film criticism seriously 
when the critic displays his ignorance so 
blatantly.
In PLAY MISTY FOR ME, Evelyn was 
psychotic. Nevertheless her delusions con
tained aspects of societal conditioning 
through which a woman learns quickly to 
put love of the man in her life above all 
else. The average housewife in the U.S. 
works 90 hours a week for love. Even 
most working women put the career of the 
husband first. Evelyn, in committing a 
homicide, was merely a victim, a symptom 
of the sickness around her.
Assuming you, Palso, are sensitive to 
some basic human rights, I wonder if you 
would have made a parallel statement con
cerning blacks,This film shows what hap
pens when you treat the niggers as the 
equals they like to think they are. Does 
this not sound absurd? What about the 
statement you wrote?
Judith Gibbons 
Department of Psychology
Editors note: It is a policy to allow our 
columnists to state their opinions when 
their names appear on them. It is also our 
policy to accept comments on those opi
nions.
Editor:
While in Pittsburgh this past weekend, I 
read the TARTAN and was surprised to 
find a negative attitude towards Dr. Stever. 
Although I never met Dr. Stever personal
ly, I always regarded him with high esteem 
while I was an engineering student at Tech. 
Despite the fact that the administration 
and Skibo food were always targets 
considered as fair game by discontented 
students, I cant recall ever hearing a bad 
opinion of Dr. Stever. I heard him speak 
several times, and although his audiences 
were apathetic, he seemed concerned.
I know nothing of Dr. Stevers personal 
aims or accomplishments, but I found Tech 
became a better and more open campus 
during my tenure, 1966-1970, while Dr. 
Stever was president. Being a fraternity
man, I saw a very light hand exerted by the 
administration towards this group. The stu
dent government was goven more responsi
bility and became a more popular organiza
tion. I believe it was in the spring of 1968 
when a referendum was almost passed to 
abolish student government, due to lack of 
student interest. The TARTAN also be1 
came more interesting and liberal due to 
increasing student interest and responsibilityMy college years were years of turmoil 
at other colleges (including Pitt), but there 
was very little at Tech. Perhaps this is just 
an indication of the character of the stu
dents, but I think a liberal admin istrative 
policy helped relieve tension during critical I 
situations.
Dr. Stever always seemed to have a per
sonal approach to the issues ^nd spoke 
openly during incidents of student rebel
lion. Although he was the highest man in 
the administration, he seemed to be the 
friendliest. It is because of my respect and 
esteem for Dr. Stever that I am writing this 
letter. I am proud that such a man from } 
my alma mater should be appointed to 
such a high national position.
Name withheld on request
Editors note: My editorial (January 
27) was not meant to undermine Dr. Ste
vers personal interest in students, his 
light hand attitude towards fraternities ) 
and other campus organizations. Nor did I 
chastise Dr. Stever as unfriendly or unfeel
ing. I am afraid that you missed my point.
Rather, I said that this university bene
fited specific areas at the expense of other 
departments. I said that this schools orien
tation is obviously towards science and en
gineering, and that it was too bad that 
CMU attempts to maintain other discip) 
lines in a half-hearted manner.
Your reference to CMU as Tech" mere
ly reinforces my theory.
Editor:
Please accept my thanks for your col
umn on my casenothing is more ) 
important for students as well as for 
Facultiesas that college students should 
find it possible to publish the truth, in 
newspapers of their own making.
Chatham students who have seen the 
column are also grateful,and have underatken to show it to other students who are 
now returning to the campus, after a 
month of interim work largely undertaken ] 
off the campus.
CMU students were present at a recent 
rally held here on behalf of the struggle to 
achieve due process and equality in every 
department of the college, for all who 
compose the college: students, faculty, ad
ministration, other staff areas, etc. I am 
grateful that CMU people could come, and 
can assure them that their presence was j 
meaningful for all of us.
If I can help you in any way in any fight 
you undertake on behalf of the future and 
the present, at a time when little menacing 
clouds are gathering, at a time when the 
toads and the Hecubas are coming forth 
croakingly, do count on me.
And let me say to you that I remain 
absolutely confident that your generation * 
will not permit reaction to take over. That 
means that I am optimistic. How could a 
college teacher not have faith in the future, 
when students show such restlessness? In
choate at times, despairing often, forward
ing and going back a bit; the students will 
win in the end. No question.
Courage.
Nan Pendrell J

---------------------------------------------------

m
Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972  Page 3
Announcements:
Gregory Freilino, senior music student at
Carnegie-Mellon University, will be bass 
baritone soloist in a performance by the 
Pittsburgh Oratorio Society, February 16 
at 8 p.m. Free and open to the public, the 
3l concert will be held at Calvary Episcopal 
Church, Shady and Walnut Streets, Shadyside.
The program will include both contemp
orary music and polyphonies of the Middle 
Ages. Donald Wilkins, director of the 
60-voice choral group, has also included 
the use of electronic tapes in the program.
Other featured soloists will be Gregory 
 Freilino, bass baritone; and David Orr, ten
or. One of the works to be performed is 
"Triptych for Percussion, Organ, Reader 
and One Antiphonal Brass Instrument, 
composed by Stanley Leonard, timpanist 
with the Pittsburgh Sumphony and faculty 
member at Carnegie Mellon.
The Music Department of the College of
Arts of Carnegie-Mellon University presents 
STUDENT CONVOCATION, Thursday, 
February 10, I972 in Exhibition Hall. The 
program includes: Variations on a Theme 
of Haydn, Op. 566 by Brahms; Iras Lavine, 
Piano and Frank Johnson, Piano. Also, 
Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion by0 Bartk: Paul Dvorak, Piano; Stephen Lewis 
, Piano; Kris Phillips, Percussion; Tom 
Watson, Percussion; Harrison Schlee, Con
ductor.
CWENS will continue to take orders for
boxes of Valentine Candy on Friday, Feb
ruary 11, from 10:30 - 2:30 in Baker Lob
by. Someone you know would love one.
Of Lithuanian ancestry? Want to know
what being Lith is all about? Want to know 
what other Liths are doing in the univers
ities? in the professions? in the world? For 
information, call John Aleshunas, 
687-7567.
Comments such as "This is too good to be
true" are superstitions which need to be 
challenged, according to a lecture to be 
given in Pittsburgh on February I5th.
Nathaniel Ridgway White, C.S., of 
Rumson, New Jersey, will share insights in 
his lecture about breaking the fallacy of 
believing in the necessity of cycles of good 
and bad times or conditions through en
lightened understanding of what God's 
constant goodness means to mankind.
A former journalist, Mr. White is on 
extensive tour as a member of The Christ
ian Science Board of Lectureship. His lec
ture entitled "The Continuity of Good" 
will be given on Tuesday, February 15th, 
at 8:15 p.m. in the First Church of Christ, 
Scientist; 635 Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. The 
lecture is free, and local members have 
invited the public to attend.
The conditions which prevail at Western
^ Penitentiary in Pittsburgh are exemplary of 
maximum security prisons across the Un
ited States. To combat the existence and 
policies of such obsolete institutions, var
ious groups around Pittsburgh are involved 
in initiating penal reform through legisla
tion and cooperation with prison administators. Penal reform can only occur 
through the active participation and inter* est of the public.
A meeting to inform and involve CMU 
people in the attempt to reform the crimin
al justice system will be held on Tuesday, 
February 15, at 4:30 p.m. in Room 57, 
Skibo.
Try your luck at a meeting of the Ameri
can Chemical Society Student Affiliates - 
6:30 p.m., Wednesday, February 16 in Ski
bo 46.
^ Writing is the root of all evil; live in sin and
write an article for the Commuter Hand
book. Contact Tom Klopack, c/o C.C.C.P., 
Skibo at 331-0563.
An Evening of Song and Chance. Come to
Mudge Gambling Party. Music, refresh
ments too. Saturday, February 12, 8:30 - 
12:30. 1000 Morewood Ave. Free admis^ sion. Everyone is welcome.
A SCUBA course will be offered on cam
pus through the YM/YWCA if enough res
ponse is shown. The Pittsburgh SCUBA 
Club will supply certified instructors, texts, 
tanks and regulators for the 10 week, co-ed 
session to be given either Wednesday or 
Friday evenings. A $25 fee will be charged. 
^ Contact the Y Office, 57 Skibo, ext. 239 
0r 416 if interested.
If you believe that law enforcement has
fumbled with the drug problem for too 
long and you want to DO something about 
your belief, please come join and work 
with the COMMITTEE FOR THE PROM
OTION OF A SANE DRUG POLICY On 
Thursday, February 17, I972 at 8 p.m., in 
the Student Union Ballroom, University of 
Pittsburgh, CYRIL WECHT, M.D., J.D., 
Allegheny County Coroner will speak on 
the "Constitutional Right to Treatment 
and Help."'
The present penal method of dealing 
with drug problems may pose the greater 
dangers to our constitution and freedom. 
Something must be done NOW, before 
more young lives are sacrificed to drug bust 
records, sophisticated surveillance tech
nology, and increased law enforcement 
appropriations.
Sponsored by Greater Pittsburgh Chap
ter, AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UN
ION .
H&SS Freshmen are not represented on the
H&SS CoJIege Council. Sophomores, Jun
iors, and Seniors have representatives, but 
have not had an opportunity to discuss 
college issues, provide input, and receive 
feedback. To remedy these conditions, the 
present H&SS representatives will meet 
with humanities students on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 15, at 11:30 a.m. in the Wherret 
Room. Election of Freshman Representa
tives will be the first item of business, 
followed by a discussion of the issues for 
the information and guidance of the repre
sentatives.
Masochism is . .. building a Spring Carnival
Booth. Help the Commuter Council build 
theirs. First meeting is Tuesday, February 
15, Room 56 SKIBO, 4:30 p.m. or contact 
Den Brandi, c/o C.C.C., Skibo. All help is 
appreciated.
CMU Revolutionary Alliance will be hold
ing a meeting on Monday, February 13th 
in Room 39 Skibo at 4:30 p.m., for the 
purpose of setting up a "Crisis Alarm 
System and doing publicity for the talk to 
be given that Thursday by Dr. Benjamin 
Spock. The "Crisis Alarm System" will be 
a communications set up in Pittsburgh that 
would be able to mobilize large numbers of 
people in protest to any escalation of the 
war.
The American Aquatic Association is
announcing a two course certification in
stitute to be held at Chatham College, be
ginning February 14 at 7:00 in Mellon 
Recreation Center. Course I - (Feb. 14) 
Basic Certified Diver. Course II - (Feb. 15) 
Advanced Diver. The Institute offers two 
national certifications, PADI, Professional 
Association of Diving Instructors, and 
YMCA. Registration should be made by 
calling 363-3370.
Classified Ads-.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding),
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks 
for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 p.m.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional,'fashion, and photographic 
areas. Experience unnecessary. Top salar
ies. Write A&R ASSOCIATES, Box 7220 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15213.
SKI BOOTS 8y2M - Koflach Expo-Master
$120 New, used once - must sellmake 
offer. 683-8421 - Max.
Personals:
V.S.  This is your first warning
G.l. -- This is your last warning 
THE PURPLE AVENGER
films*.
TELEVISION
ABRAHAM LINCOLN starring Walter 
Huston. D.W. Griffith's first talkie film. 
NET Playhouse, Channel 13. Thursday, 
February 10,8:30 p.m.
A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE starring 
Vivian Leigh, Kim Hunter and Marlon 
Brando. Thursday Night Movie. Channel 2, 
9:00 p.m.
GOOD NEIGHBOR SAM starring Jack 
Lemmon and Romy Schneider. Channel 2. 
Thursday, February 10. 12 midnight.
ANGELS WASH THEIR FACES starring 
Ann Sheridan and the Dead End Kids. 
Channel 2, Friday, February 11, 1:15 a.m.
MIGHTY JOE YOUN.G starring Terry 
Moore and Robert Armstrong. Channel 2. 
Saturday, February 12, 4:00 p.m.
BLOOD AND SAND starring Rudolph 
Valentino. The Silent Years. Channel 13. 
Saturday, February 12, 8:00 p.m.
THE SEVEN SAMURAI. Film Odyssey. 
Channel 13. Saturday, February 12, 9:30 
p.m. or Channel 16, Friday, February 11, 
8:30 p.m.
THE SORCERERS starring Boris Karloff. 
Chiller Theater. Channel 11. Saturday, 
February 12, 1:00 a.m.
CAMPUS
THE PHATOM OF THE OPERA starring 
Lon Chaney. Film Arts Society. United 
States 1925. Director; Rupert Julian. 
Thursday, February 10, Porter Hall 100. 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 p.m. Admission: Film 
Arts Ticket.
MARK OF ZORRO. Activities Board. Star
ring Douglas Fairbanks. A pianist will play 
the original 200 page score. Friday, Febru
ary 11, Skibo Ballroom. 8:00 p.m. Admis
sion $.50 with AB card.
GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER. 
Men's Dorm Council. Saturday, February
12, Doherty Hall 2210. 5:30, 8:00, 10:30 
p.m. Free.
PITT
TRUE FRIENDS. U.CJ.S. Thursday, 
February 10. 223 Langley. 8:00 p.m. Free.
THE BANK DICK, HAIL THE CON
QUERING HERO, starring W.C. Fields. 
Pangborn Film Club. Thursday, February
10. 120 Common Facilities. 8:15 p.m. Ad
mission: $.50.
BONNIE AND CLYDE. Special Programs. 
Friday, February 11. 120 Common Facili
ties. 7:00, 9:30 p.m. Free.
FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS, 
WHERE'S POPPA. Pangborn Film Club. 
Saturday February 12. 120 Common Faci
lities. 7:00 p.m. Admission: $.75.
LOVES OF A BLOND. U.C.I.S. Wednes
day, February 16. 120 Common Facilities. 
8:30 p.m. Free.
COMMUNITY
2001; A SPACE ODYSSEY. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse through February 12. 7:00, 
9:30 p.m. Admission: $1.00 for students.
THE GREAT DICTATOR starring Charlie 
Chaplin. Guild Theater, call for times. Ad
mission: $1.00 reduction for students.
MONKEY BUSINESS starring the Marx 
Brothers. Oaklnad Co-op. Friday, February
11,8:00, 10:00 p.m. Admission: $1.00.
MOROCCO starring Marlene Dietrich and 
Gary Cooper. Directed by Josef Von Stern
berg with period newsre Is. Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. Sunday, February 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Admission: free.
DR. ZHIVAGO. Pittsburgh Playhouse. 
Starts February 13. Call for times. Admis
sion: $1.00 for students.
THEATRE
Woody Allen's "Play It Again Sam" at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse (Craft Ave.) playing 
through March 12. Performances Tuesday - 
Sundays. Tickets from $2.50 - $6.00. Call 
box office at 621-4445.
"No No .Nanette" at the Nixon Theatre, 
playing through Feb. 12. Performances 
daily. Call 281-6773.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
THE P.I.R.C. PETITION
I, the undersigned, stand resolved that the Western Pennsylvania Public Interest 
Research Greup (WPPIRG) be established:
The purpose WPPIRG shall be te articulate and pursue through the media, 
the institutiens ef government, the ceurts, and ether legal means the cencerns 
ef students en issues ef general public interest.
These areas will include environment preservation, consumer protection, and the 
role of corporation and government agencies in the lives of average citizen ;
WPPIRG shall be non-partisan, non-profit, and student controlled.
It shall be fianced by an increase in student fees of two dollars per student 
per semester. Those students not wishing to participa te may cross this fee 
off their bills, and not include the two dollar payyent.
Upon the beginning of the semester, any student who decides against partici
pation, but who has paid the fee, shall be entitled to a full refund*
Friends of PIRG shall be* mandated to negotiate the establishment of the fee 
assessment system with Camegie-Mellon University.
I, a student registered at Carnegie-41 ellon University, hereby petition the Committee 
on Fees and Charges to authorize the formation of WPPIRG's funding mechanism.
NameStudent NumberC.lUge
 send t*r*wbo

PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP  No. 54 SKIBO 
PETITIONING: DORMS AT NIGHT; BAKER HALL and 
SKIBO During the Day
the ACTIVITIES BOARD presents 
IN CONCERT:
mason
proffit
SUNDAY, FEB. 13th
8:00 P.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM
$1.50 w/I.D. & A.B. Film Card

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972  Page
Jim Margulies
Ed Levine
The war is far from over. Under the 
I guise of ending the war, President Nixon is 
using increasingly devious methods to pro
long and expand U.S. involvement in Indo
china. The fact that American troops are 
being withdrawn from active combat in no 
way decreases our military role in the 
indo-China conflict.
Nixons first scheme to present an image 
of lesser American involvement is the poliI cy of Vietnamization. Simply stated, Vietnamization represents shifting the respon
sibility for military operations to the South 
Vietnamese army. In reality, Vietnamiza
tion has cost American taxpayers millions 
of dollars, but Nixons expectations have 
fallen far short of preparing South Viet
namese to fight without U.S. support. Al
though South Vietnamese casualties have 
^ increased, American concern for the war 
has been numbed because of decreasing 
U.S. troop casualties. Changing the color of 
the corpses has releived American anxiety 
over the pain and suffering incurred in this 
war.
Bombing throughout Indochina by the 
United States has replaced diminishing U.S. 
troop strength. Wheras the bombing was 
p once an accessory to ground combat it is 
now playing a primary role. In February 
1971 President Nixon was quoted as say
ing: I will not place any limits on the use 
of air power, and this has been substan
tiated by the fact that the United States 
has conducted more raids over North Viet
nam this year than in all of 1971. More 
bombs have been dropped on Indochina 
^ since President Nixon took office than the 
total (2.9 million tons) dropped during 
World War II and the Korean War com
bined. Each bombing raid costs at least 
$35,000-$40,000. The air war costs 
American taxpayers $5 million a day, and 
ahas so far cost over $35 billion.
Bombing in Indochina involves many 
more sophisticated devices than previously 
used in warfare. One of these weapons is a 
special sensor device that is dropped 
through the air to monitor human move
ment. On the basis of information collect
ed by these sensore, air strikes are called. 
However, these devices cannot distinguish 
among troops, children, farmers, or even 
water buffaloes. The only certain thing is 
that life will be destroyed.
I The type of bombs used are not only 
designed to destroy military installations, 
but also to specifically injure and maim 
human targets. Three types of anti-personnel bombs are used: steel pellets, flechetes, 
and foot bombs. Steel pellets are contained 
in capsules the size of grapefruits that ex
plode and scatter upon contact with the 
ground. Although incapable of penetrating 
^ wood or steel, they will easily enter the 
skin and if not removed can cause serious 
damage. The flechete is a smell steel arrow 
which spins when released from high alti
tudes and upon contact with skin can cause 
an abnormally large gash. Foot bombs are 
liny explosives the size of a matchbook 
which when stepped on can blow off the 
victims foot. All three anti-personnel 
I hombs are specifically designed for and 
dropped on populated areas.
Strategically calculated troop withdrawls, Vietnamization, the bombings, and 
Nixons peace proposal are all part, of a 
shrewdly thought-out political plan to gain 
ie-election in November.
To the uninformed, Nixons recent 
"peace proposal seemed a great step forward in bringing peace and stability to In
dochina. In reality the proposal does not
adequately deal with basic issues necessary 
for a settlement, and can be viewed as an 
excuse for re-escalation of the war. There 
are many questions regarding the proposal. 
If Nixon wanted Hanoi and the NLF to 
sign his proposal, he would not have de
scribed them as the main obstacles to 
peace. The proposal for a cease-fire with 
internationally supervised elections is al
most the same as that agreed upon in Gen
eva in 1954, which was violated by the 
U.S. in fearing that Communists would win 
in free elections. Even if the Provisional 
Revolutionary Government of South Viet
nam was allowed to run, U.S. military 
strength and financial support, along with 
Thieus million-man army, would still have 
the resources to rig the election. If Nixon 
were interested in peace he would not have 
assured continued support for Thieu. His 
peace plan does not deal with the question 
of U.S. planes launched in Thailand which 
bomb Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam. A 
peace plan which is truly dedicated to 
peace would not have emphasized the need 
to continue to protect the GIs and POWs as 
Nixons did.
Furthermore, Nixon emphasized enemy 
killings and contemplated offensives as the 
response to the proposals made in secret by 
henry Kissinger. Because Nixon wishes the 
American public to view his Peace plan 
as a magnanimous venture, he can use this 
as an excuse to re-escalate if the other side 
does not reply positively. Hr said,If the 
enemys answer to our peace offer is to 
step up their military attacks, I shall fully 
meet my responsibilities as Commander-InChief of our armed forces to protect 
our remaining troops.
It is quite an alarming prospect that the 
President has sought after many methods 
to disguise the true nature of the war from 
the American public and in so doing tried 
to fool all of the people aall of the time.J&LREPLY
Geoffrey L. Bryan
The column, you will recall, was an en
dorsement of a proposal to be presented to 
the Student Senate, authorizing compen
sation to students in positions of responsi
bility among campus organizations, at a 
rate not below the minimum wage, for 
work deemed to be in excess of the normal 
extra-curricular level. The theory seems to 
be that, by injecting money into our 
crumbling campus organizations, they will 
somehow revive themselves.
I must protest the conclusion that this 
resolution will provide services to the stu
dent substantially improved in quality 
and quantity. Without eVen raising the 
point of where this extra money is going to 
come from, I must ask: where is all of this 
extra time going to come from? And can 
$1.65 an hour really offset the tuition loss 
in failed courses, Probation, and any of the 
other heinous aspects of this schools para
noic grading system?
The problem that Leslie and John have 
pointed out is certainly widespread-not 
only student government and campus 
publications, but varsity sports, special ev
ents like Spring Carnival, and groups like 
PIRG face intense pressures from the high
ly competitive academic atmosphere. The 
turnover on the TARTAN staff, like that 
on other organizations, is due more to low 
grades than low money.
The frightening part is that this turnover 
means the impending end for campus 
publications and a ceasing of the student 
voice on this campus. With all due respect 
to the people that work hard on the TAR
TAN, it must be honestly admitted that it 
is not a particularly news-y newspaper. 
And things are not looking up-the work
and talen that go into a good journal are 
difficult to come up with week after week.
While mentioning time, I feel that I 
should put in a word for WRCT, which was 
ignored in the J & L column. The num
ber of hours that go into operating this 
station far exceeds that of the TARTAN. 
During my reign as General Manager, I 
logged a number of 60 hour weeks, as did 
several others on the staff. Maintenance 
and operation of a 24 hour a day station 
requires a great deal more time than most 
people are willing to concede. Complicat
ing the issue is the outmoded AM Carrier 
current transmitting system that the sta
tion is forced to use under antiquated FCC 
regulations-a system that is low in quality, 
difficult and expensive to maintain, and 
which cannot be heard by nearly half the 
students whose activities free supports it: 
the commuters. The students who work at 
the radio station certainly are not en
courage by this knowledge, yet they hand 
in there-until the school taps them on the 
shoulder with Probation notices in hand. 
Yes, I resigned; I had to, becauseof grades. 
Dough Campbell left the TARTAN for sim
ilar reasons: he wanted to go to grad 
school, and he was worried about grades.
Yet WRCT has one of the finest studio 
installations of any college station, especi
ally for one not connected with a school 
teaching department. I am convinced that 
anyone who is interested in broadcasting 
can learn more down there than in a hun
dred classrooms. And broadcasting is loom
ing fearsome as one of the most pervasive 
and influential of all the mass madia: one 
which should be studied and used for the 
benefit of citizens, rather than as a mass 
tranquilizer..
Those who are concerned merely with 
the quality of the TARTAN or WRCT 
would suggest more money, but that misses 
the point of these activities. Naturally a 
full professional staff of salaried writers 
would give the TARTAN a great boost, but 
what of the students? Who then will judge 
what goes into the paper, or what issues to 
explore? And what about the management 
experience that one can get in the TAR
TAN or WRCT or Senate? If we hire pro
fessional managers, the education goes 
away. Far-fetched examples? Maybe. But 
we must continually remind ourselves that 
this is a university, and that these activities 
are activities, not businesses. TheStudent 
Senate, WRCT, the TARTAN: all exist to 
serve the campus community by respon
sible action and reporting, and in so doing 
provide for their members the opportunity 
to gain experience and competence in these 
areas. The experience can be very valuable.
What is the schools attitude toward 
this? Seemingly they could not care less. 
The situation is somewhat like pouring ker
osene into a cars gas tank and then com
plaining because the engine doesnt run 
right. Administration officials interpret the 
present state of affairs as apathy on the 
part of students, and act to hinder the 
further advancement of student activities. 
Teaching departments are sticking to the 
ivory tower routine, especially the English 
department, which has taken a tremen
dously jaundiced view toward project 
credit for TARTAN editorship or WRCT 
management since Dave Caneys fiasco. A 
number of dedicated people on this cam
pus have had to abandon these activities 
because the school fails to recognize their 
educational value.
I am advocating the bestowal of 
academic credits for work done on certain 
student activities. For those who wish to 
pursue an aspect of one of these activities 
in real depth, this will be their entree. 
Those automatons who can throw lots of 
hours into an activity and still manage to 
carry 70 plus units will have a way to pick 
up a few extra. Inevitably there will be 
deadbeats who are looking for bunny 
credits. But an important recognition, that 
of the educational value of these activities,
will have taken place. And it will be a ver 
relevant recognition of todays swing awa 
from nurd campuses.
The problem is that Stever has resigned, 
throwing the University into a state of 
chaos and caution. No leader is here to 
thread us through these difficulties. But 
there is a line of approach: The Education
al Policy Council.
This council will have to approve any 
thing along the lines of course credit for 
activities before anything else can happen. 
The counci attitude presently ranges from 
skeptical to hostile on the point. They 
seem to anticipate student apathy, and 
maybe they are right. But I am going to do 
everything in my power to persuade them, 
and the school, that the time has come to 
take responsibility for the state of student 
activities. The problem is on a Universitywide scale; the Student Senate should be 
exploring ways to attack the problem on 
this level, rather than trying to fix a 
broken leg with a Band-Aid, as last weeks 
resoltuion promises to do. The staff at 
WRCT, or the TARTAN, or anywhere else, 
isnt looking for token payment. Many are 
dedicated professionals, who take what 
they are doing quite seriously, and rankle 
at the thought of being hired help. Lets 
attack the problem right at the source: 
Warner Hall, Baker, and the rest.
Thornburgh
Federal revenue-sharing in the criminal 
justice area is already under way and can 
well provide useful guidelines for further 
applications of this principle, United 
States Attorney Richard L. Thornburgh 
told attendees at the Program for Execu
tives conducted at CMUs Graduate School 
of Public Administration on February 3rd.
Under the 1968 Federal Safe Streets 
Act, 850 million dollars will be made avail
able during fiscal 1973 to aid tax-starved 
state and local governments in making im
provements in their criminal justice sys
tems. This is nearly double the amount 
appropriated during the current fiscal year. 
Decisions as to how these Federal funds are 
to be used to upgrade our police, courts 
and correctional institutions will be made 
in each case at the state and local level.
The success or failure of efforts to 
upgrade our woefully inadequate criminal 
justice system will have far-reaching conse
quences. If most of these funds go for 
police fire-power and hardware rather than 
basic and rational overhaul of the whole of 
our archaic criminal justice structure, 4he 
case for expanded revenue-sharing may be 
dealt a death blow.
If, on the other hand, enlightened local 
government units exercise imagination and 
vision in using these funds-by, for example, 
combining the present mosaic of under
trained and ill-equipped police forces into 
modern efficient units; by insisting on 
more judges and supportive personnel and 
competent, full-time prosecutors and pub
lic defenders in our criminal courts; and by 
stepping up diagnostic, educational and vo
cational programs within our correctional 
systems-then revenue-sharing in other areas 
such as education, welfare services and the 
like will rightfully command increased at
tention.
In effect, the Safe Streets Act program 
provides a laboratory within which the 
basic revenue-sharing concept can be tested 
and evaluated as a principle either illfounded or deserving of further applica
tion. Final judgment will depend upon the 
seriousness of the efforts undertaken by 
responsible state and local governments in 
putting these Federal funds to use.
Mr. Thornburgh, the chief Federal pro
secutor in 25 Western Pennsylvania coun
ties, also serves as Chairman of the Alleghe
ny Regional Planning Council for the 
Governor's Justice Commission which over
sees the application of Safe Streets Act 
funds in Pittsburgh and Allegheny County.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
Jim Slivka
Surprise! the list of Democrats seeking 
their partys nomination has grown to ten: 
Muskie, McGovern, Chisholm, et al.
The most recent declaration of candida
cy was given by Ms. Shirley Chisholm of 
Brooklyn. The 47 year old Congresswoman 
with an IQ of 160 (probably the most 
intelligent candidate running) is the only 
Black seeking a major party nomination. 
She begins her campaign with a so-called 
built in constituency of both Blacks and 
womens liberationists although it is a 
well-known fact that Blacks in the major 
cities lean toward Lindsay and only 2 of 
her 12 fellow members of the Black Caucus 
have declared their support for her. (Penn
sylvanias Secretary of the Commonwealth, 
C. Dolores Tucker, a Black, came out last 
week for Muskie because she felt that he is 
the only Democrat who can and will beat 
Nixon.) Ms. Chisholms main reasons for 
seeking the nomination are to attain 
enough strength going into Miami Beach so 
that she can bargain with the kingmakers 
over any of the following: a Black man or 
woman as a possible Vice Presidential no
minee, a strong civil rights plank, or the 
guarantee that Blacks will be appointed to 
the Democratic Presidents cabinet in 
1973.
Several other interesting developments 
have arisen recently concerning Campaign 
72. Two states have already preliminary 
caucuses prior to state delegate nominating 
conventions. In Arizona, Muskie drew 40 
per cent of the delegates-but he was ex
pected to pull at least 50 per cent. Surpris
ingly, John Lindsay pulled the second highest-30 per cent. McGovern followed a few 
percentage points behind Lindsay. It is felt 
that of the 25 delegates Muskie will pull 
10, Lindsay 5 or 6, McGovern 5 or 6, and 
the remaining 3 to 5 will split up between 
Jackson (once thought to be the second 
strongest candidate in Arizona), Wallace, 
and Humphrey.
Iowa was another state which held dele
gate nominations. Another shocker occured here. Once considered a stronghold of 
Muskie, the candidate only pulled 35.6 per
cent of the delegates. McGovern came in a 
strong second-23 per cent. The rest of the 
delegates remain uncommitted (They could 
go to Muskie if it seems he will win.).
But the question arises-is the Muskie 
bandwagon fizzling? This is difficult to an
swer although he has not done as well as 
expected in either Iowa or Arizona. But he 
has yet to be tested by direct voting inthe 
primaries and the endorsements keep roll
ing in-Shapp (Pa.), Gilligan (Ohio), Steven
son (111.), Woodcock (President of the 
UAW).
The polls show (as of January) that 
Muskie is the only candidate who could 
beat Nixon this fall. The Harris Poll shows 
the following:
Muskie-42 percent 
Nixon-42 percent 
Wallace-11 percent 
lJndecided-5 percent
The other poll, the Gallup, shows the fol
lowing:
Nixon-43 percent 
Muskie-42 percent 
Wallace-13 percent 
Undecided-3 percent
Muskie had hoped to win the first seven 
primaries but Wallaces entry into the Flo
rida primary, the nations second, crushes 
Muskies chances of winning there. How
ever, a strong second might be considered a 
psychological victory.
One campaign that was really hurt by 
Wallaces entry was that of Senator Henry 
Jackson, the conservative Washingtonian, 
who had hoped to gain momentum in Flo
rida but now his campaign seems to be 
running out of steam. Jackson had hoped 
to get the support of Georgias Lt. Gov. 
Lester Maddox (1968 candidate himself) 
but Maddox has allied himself with Wal
lace. The only state in which Jackson looks 
good in is Tennessee-Wallace could over
take him there, also. Jackson has several 
factors working against him, including the 
stressing of more military spending and his 
hawkish views on Viet Nam and Indochina.
One questionable candidacy is that of 
the new Hubert Horatio Humphrey 
(whose bell bottom pants jingle as he 
runs). His major obstacle is bucking the 
1968 image-LBJ and theChicago Conven
tion riots. Some laborites have thrown 
their support in his direction yet in Arizo
na he picked up only 1 percent of the 
delegates (in real terms, 1/4 of a delegate) 
and did not even get a percentage point 
from Iowa. Minnesota appears to be the 
only state from which Humphrey could get 
the majority of the delegates. Texas could 
go his way if LBJ so designates. As of now, 
HHH stands second in the polls as to which 
Democrat would be preferred as the no
minee.
George McGovern could be the surprise 
candidate. Evidence to this fact has already 
been covered. Most liberal factions in the 
Democratic Party have thrown their sup
port in his favor. McGovern was one of the 
first, if not the first, to question the sense 
of US involvement in Indochina. He has 
strong support from the young, including 
1968 McCarthyites.
Rounding out the Democratic seekers 
are John Lindsay (the man who nominated 
Spiro T. Agnew at the 1968 Republican 
Convention; the man whose City Hall re
cord is as impressive as the defunct Wash
ington Senators baseball team; yet, has cha
risma and is considered the champion of 
the minority groups); Gene McCarthy (his 
campaign so far has been as lifeless as trees 
in Schenley Park are in January-lost his 
youth brigade to McGovern and otherscould lead a 4th party); Van Hartke (a 
Senator who won reelection to the Senate 
by only 4000 votes in a disputed election, 
yet he has voted 100 percent on AFL-CIO 
legislation); Sam Yorty (the mayor of Lose 
Angeles who is never in L.A. and is the 
butt of many jokes of Johnny Carson per
taining to his partial residency on airplanes-he probably has the cleanest lungs in 
L.S.-and a critical point that could kill his 
hopes is that he supported Richard Nixon 
in 1960 over JFK); and lastly, but not the 
least, George Wallace (who may be running 
to get his strong views on bussing, etc., 
incorporated into the Party Platform, or to 
have his say in the choice of the Vice 
Presidential nominee. His support of the 
Democratic nominee could cut down the 
number of White Houses in this country 
and also increase the number of unemploy
ed lawyers in New York by two).
Thought for today: Is there any truth to 
the rumor that the eleventh hour candidate 
is LBJ so he can amass more material for 
his Austin Library.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972 - Page 7
The Environmental Defense Fund 
filed suit in a Washington, D.C. Federal 
Court Monday, January 24, to require Sec
retary of Transportation John Volpe to ful
ly consider the environmental impact of fu
ture Federal-aid highway construction.
Volpe is required by the Federal Aid 
Highway Act of 1970 to provide Congress 
this month with recommendations for con
tinuing Federal-aid highway construction 
from 1976 to 1990.
The suit filed in the U.S. District Court 
for the District of Columbia seeks to re
quire Volpe to comply with the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 in sub
mitting his recommendations.
Under the NEPA, major Federal recom
mendations must contain detailed analysis 
of their environmental impact, including 
immediate and long-term adverse effects 
and alternatives to action proposed by the 
agency.
The National Environmental Policy 
Act simply requires us to use a little com
mon sense and look before we leap into 
another 15 years of federal highway con
struction without considering its impact on 
the publics environment, an EDF spokes
man said.
New York Congressman Jonathan Bing
ham and Edward I. Koch joined the suit. 
Each intends to introduce transportation 
legislation which they feel cannot get a fair 
hearing unless Congress is fully informed 
on the environmental impact of Volpes re
commendations.
These recommendations will play a 
major role in future highway
legislation to take effect when current 
authorizations under the Highway Trust 
Fund expire June 30, 1976.
The largely complete 41,000 mile Inter
state Highway System financed by the 
Trust Funds accumulation of public gaso
line taxes has created severe environmental 
problems for many central cities and sur
rounding communities.
In February, 1971, Secretary Volpe ac
knowledged, Our obsession with the pri
vate car is destroying the quality of life in 
our urban areas...it involves all of us in a 
vrutally vicious cycle: more people, with 
fewer alternatives, means more cars-which 
require more roads-which take more urban 
and suburban land off the tax rolls and 
away from housing , business, and recre
ation while bringing increased pollution 
and congestion. This, very simply, is a selfperpetuating disaster.
According to guidelines issued by the 
Presidents Council on Envrionmental Qua
lity, Volpes upcoming recommendations 
must consider downtown decay, suburban 
sprawl and related land-use problems resul
ting from highway construction in and 
around cities.
Specific considerations would include 
the tendency of highways to draw business, 
jobs and tax revenues away from central 
cities, destroy low income housing and in
crease air and noise pollution.
With the NEPA and the Federal Aid 
Highway Act, Congress gave Secretary 
Volpe both a mandate and a unique oppor
tunity to insure future Federal Highway 
programs dont repeat mistakes of the 
past, EDF said.
Previous EDF lawsuits successfully for
ced several major Federal projects to com
ply with the NEPA including the Trans-' 
\laska Pipeline, Cross-Florida Barge Canal 
and the Tennessee Valley Authoritys con
troversial Tellico Dam on the Little Ten
nessee River.
For Additional information contact: 
John Hellegers or Ed Chaney, EDF, 1712 
N. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.
MILK
Marc Elliott Field
> John P. Flaherty, professor of law in 
GSIA for the last fourteen years, has been 
appointed chief counsel of the Milk Mar
keting Board by Governor Shapp.
I spoke to Flaherty about his new parttime job and it is amazing how little stu
dents know about the Diary industry in 
Pennsylvania. Milk is this states second 
largest industry (steel is number one) and it 
involves one billion dollars per year.
There are a great many problems with 
the present pricing system. For example: 
The milk that is delivered in the western 
part of the state is taken by the same 
driver, in the same truck, to West Virginia 
and sold for as little as 78 cents per gallon. 
Residents of Pennsylvania pay as much as 
$1.30 per gallon. Flaherty defiantly feels 
something is wrong with this system.
He went on to explain how residents in 
poor areas ofPittsburgh (especially ghetto 
areas) are subsidizing delivery to middle 
and upper class neighborhoods. The deli
very charge is usually about 8 cents per 
gallon which doesnt cover delivery costs. 
It is those people who can not get milk 
delivered and who pay inflated prices that 
are really paying for the delivery of the 
milk.
Flaherty is working very hard to get 
some change effected. He told me about 
the United Dairy Farmers whos stores give 
their customers a fifteen per cent refund at 
the end of every month. U.D.F. also gives 
the farmer a thirteen per cent rebate. This 
only proves that the other dairies could cut 
their costs if they wnated to, but apparent
ly, they dont.
MATES
UNLIMITED
A Roommate Placement Service For Singles 
By Appointment 566-1277 
A SERVICE AGENCY - A SOLUTION
 NOW APPEARING AT SKIBO BALLROOM  
FREE CONCERT - FEB. 19 - 8:30
 plus APPLE WINE, and REVEREND PARKER 
A presented by C-MU ACTIVITIES BOARD A
WITHTHE PT.EIT f RCO NT.*^ NTUD
SING:
feb. 18th, 1972
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL - 
8:00 p.m.  FREE
SWING:
feb. 19th, 1972
SYRIA MOSQUE BALLROOM 
8:00 p.m.  S2.50 per person

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE
'.Student Discount on Most Items: 
Phone: 683-2181
OAKLAND HASDWARE & TOY CO.
CMIFs Convenient Headquarters 
for Hardware 
^ Lamp* ^ Key Service ^ Artist Brushes 
^ Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints ^ School Supplies 
Tara tn, Amu* OAKLAND Phon 621-0923
Round
TripEurope $189.00
PITTSBURGH - LONDON  PITTSBURGH
PGH.-LON. 5/10/72  LON-PGH. 8/13/72
ALL PITT, CMU, and DUQUESNE STUDENTS, FACULTY,
STAFF ond THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES ARE ELIGIBLE.UNIVERSITY AIR CHARTER
204 SCHENLEY MANOR DRIVE PITTSBURGH, PA. 15201
CALL: 9 a.m.11 p.m. MondaySunday 412-782-3274
WANTED:
ACTORS,
DIRECTORS and PRODUCERS 
for
NEW MOVIE COMPANY
writ: MOVIES: c/o TARTAN OFFICERoom 50Skibo C-MUKMbvrfh, Pa. 15213
SCOTTY'S
9tT# peettf AVSNUf 
I*IS PNN AVIMUf m* ROUTE S. NOffTH Of CTNA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Gegonn ygnen 
or art Study Break
DICTIONARIES 
WEBSTER
Library size, 1971 edition, brand 
new, still in box. Cost new: $45.00.
Will Sell for $15
Deduct 10% on orders of 6 or more. 
Mail to
NORTH AMERICAN 
LIQUIDATORS
1450 Niagara Foil* Blvd.Df.
Tonawanda, New York 14150
C.0.D orders enclose $1.00 good will 
deposit. Pay balance plus C.O.D. ship
ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec
tion or return within 10 days for full 
refund. No dealers, each volume speci
fically stamped not for resale.
Please add $1.25 postage and handling. 
New York State residents add applicable sales tax.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELING
EVBEY WEDNESDAY 
AND THURSDAY
From 1 to 3 p.m.
By Appointment
621-8875
andorthisflo 
hand knitting yams812 ivy strt ihodytld
NATIONAL TOUR
BROADWAY CAST
AMERICAS LONGEST 
RUNNING MUSICAL
ON THE AISLE, INC.
TWELVE12YEARS
o &r at ~-
os^vVu7'/''^ci'0
1EL AVIV ^^LONDON
1L hew a. pplaudcd cuid ixLaimuct 
^-hoadwcujA. Reppr Qnisinaiuynat 
cliudcjcd Kit!"
time: 8:00 P.M.
place: SKIBO BALLROOM
date: FEBRUARY 20th

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972 - Page 9
Sports
Jon Swierzewski
The CMu Ice Hockey team was upset by 
a hardskating Indiana squad, 31. The Sat
urday setback evened the Tartan record at 
22, good for third place in the City Divi
sion of the WPICHA.
CMU opened the first period with a 
fast-paced attack, and drew first blood at 
9:02. Mike Kenworthy, the league's leading 
scorer, scored his ninth goal of the year on 
an unassisted play.' CMU kept this lead 
until the 12:55 mark when Pete HAnson 
chipped a shot in during a breakaway. This 
seemed to be the course of the game as 
Indiana was continually breaking past the 
defense. Good goal keeping by Jeff Hart 
(and two goal posts) kept the game from 
being a rout.
In the second period, one bright head
ed ref hampered the Tartans as much as 
Indiana. Each time the Red first line came 
on the ice, one of their high scoring mem
bers drew a penalty. The remainder of their 
shift was then needed to kill the penalty, 
stopping four chances to mount an offense. 
Hanson scored again on an assist from Jim 
Denni to give Indiana a 21 lead at the 
3:00 point of the period.
Doug Arnold put in an insurance goal 
with 11 minutes left, and Indianas excel
lent defense sealed off the Tartans last 
ditch striggles.
In all, the CMU team seemed disappoin
ted in their showing. Indiana skated will, 
but I think the next game on Feb. 13, at 
4:00 should go the right way. SHOTS ON 
GOAL: CMU 34, Indiana 41 Editors Note: 
CMU first line skaters Kenworthy, East
man, and Powers are the top three scorers 
of all eight teams in the WPICHA.
*111^
Barry Benjamin
As most sports fans know, intramural 
basketball has been uniquely set up this 
year to increase competition and excite
ment on all levels of play. Only 11 teams 
jre entered in the Majors while the Inter
mediate and Minor divisions have 32 and 
8 respectively. The divisions were set up 
to make every game a big one and the 
esults have been just that. While any team 
in the Majors could defeat any other on a 
' iven day, 2 teams stand out on top of 
heir respective leagues. Salt and Pepper 
has been the class of the Lakers League. 
Any team that includes the varsity basket
ball teams head and assistant coaches, not 
to mention Sorrell, Sehlin, and Krotee is 
oing to be tough. On the top of the Bucks 
!eague is the number one independent 
team, 10 plus 2. The team is led by Mike 
Conrad, Jimmy Jordan, and Lew Benson. 
If names like Conrad and Benson sound 
familiar, its because they once played for 
CMU. In fact, 7 of the 11 major teamsTiave 
ex-CMU varsity or junior varsity players on 
their rosters. This list of names including 
Lang, Grazzini, Radic, Aul, and Sacco is an 
indication of the superior level of competi
tion in the Majors.
The game of the week this past week 
was the clash for second place in the 
Lakers League. The Raiders II defeated the 
Wild Bunch in overtime 52-49. After trail
ing throughout the second half, the Wild 
Bunch tied the game with six seconds left 
>n a short jump shot by Fletcher Harde
man. The teams traded points in the over
time until Bob Grazzini tipped in a missed 
free throw to put the Raiders ahead by 
their final margin of 3 points. The game to 
watch this week will be the match up be
tween the giant graduate teams, the Wild 
Bunch versus Salt and Pepper, Thursday, at 
7:00.
Photo: Jay Caras
THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL. SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION
a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace 
and
THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY
a non-profit non-political organization dedicated 
to helping students to help themselves 
Offer
$ 6 value Filsm ucdeus
 New 19th Edition  Paris, France, 1972
 Each copy is trilingual  644 Pages 
in English, French and
Spanish
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more 
than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans and grants in more 
than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of 
study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach costed by 
financial need!
$1.50 value huMuiDep Filsm ucdeus
 Each copy is trilingual in English, French and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer 
vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With 
the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking 
numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified 
people will go free! Provides information on short courses, 
seminars, summer schools, scholarships and travel grants available each year to students, teachers and other young people and adults 
planning to undertake study or training abroad during their 
vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 
54 countries!
$ 5 value STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Services offered:
' Scholarship information service.Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide! 
fn rfl.  Travel service.5rHcT!iU Plans interesting tours to exotic lands!
 Reference Service.
all Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc.for frequently using primary sources available only in the
onjy $ 5 Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished
assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable 
educational experience and defeat the very purpose for 
writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide 
"Your reference service background information and bibliographies which rank
saved me much valuable with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclotime which I put in on paedia reference services available only with expensive sets.
other subjects. Result: 5 Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester
As and 1 B. per student in good standing. We cannot answer any
CN. Ann Arbor, Mich question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor,
ri.. Wantano Pnint" ic a lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner,
book out toZthJr bv 5 nor can we advise concerning your -financial investments.Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or
by LBJ. Your reference home studV courses.
service is almost like my ________________________________________________
own personal ghost writer." J ~  ~ |
LC. Gainesville, Fla. Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 I
"The 3reference books i friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 200161
of which every student \ Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad,
needs personal copies I Vacation Study Abroad and annual dues.
are Study Abroad, a I j
good dictionary and I Name--------------------------------------------------------------j
thesaurus. / got a $10.000  Address _____________________________ |
4-year scholarship from ^ I
Study Abroad." I City, State------------------------------- Zip-------------1
A R, Berkeley, Calif. I----------------------------------------------------------- ------
FLYINGIB
11 to 2 a.m. .very day GINO and PETES
Take Out Orders 411 South Craig St.  Oakland
682-&691 Hoagies 
Pizzas Made to OrdermimThe biggest and busiest 
Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
I.M. BASKETBALL 
MAJOR LEAGUES
LakersWL
Salt Pepper20
Wild Bunch21
Raiders II21
BTP Obeah Men12
ATO02
BuckswL
10 plus 230
Right Arm20
SAE21
GSIA21
Dirks Jerks13
SNA04
INTERMEDIATE LEAGUESWL
PKT A30
Pedora Hts.30
Pur. Gnur.30
Shrinks12
BTP C Men13
BSR A01
Fringe02
ATOC03
CELTICSwL
Players30
Oak A21
On Tap21
Fukowis21
MBsI2
TDP01
KS03
SUNSwL
Roaches20
PKA20
Oak B21
Respect11
BTP Red12
Freeps12
BSR B03
TDP B00
HAWKSwL
Lucky 1330
SAE B0
Bandits21
ATO B22
PKT B11
Hi Guise A0
Music02
Junior Hammers0
MINOR LEAGUES
WARRIORS
Gups 
DTD P 
Scrow 
Civil Ham 
EZBF 
APO
Hi Guise B 
PKA
Free Rad.
ROYALS 
Old Men 
Stronzos 
SAE J 
PKT BER 
Clackers 
SN B 
ATOJ 
Cows 
DTD B

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
virgin queen
Starting this Sunday, February 13 at 
9:00 p.m., we are in for a treat from 
WQED (Channel 13) in the form of Glenda 
Jackson as Elizabeth R premieres on 
NET. The Academy Award winning British 
actress stars as Queen Elizabeth I in this 
new Masterpiece Theatre dramatic series. 
It is the sequel to The Six Wives of Henry 
VIII and completes BBCs twelve-part 
Tudor History cycle.
The series follows Elizabeth, Henry 
VIIIs daughter by Anne Boleyn, through 
her gradual transition from a young, 
beuatiful princess - the hope of Protestant 
England - to a dried-up, ugly, unpopular 
old woman. Althpugh Elizabeth never 
married, the six 90-minute plays in the 
series are based loosely around the many 
men in her life. As Elizabeth, Ms. Jackson, 
who won the Academy award for her 
starring role in Women in Love and now 
again nominated for her performance in 
Sunday Bloody Sunday skillfully 
interprets the multi-facited personality of 
Henry VIIIs most notable successor to the 
English throne. The first play The Lions 
Club, portrays Elizabeth during the brief 
reigns of her brother Edward and her sister 
Mary, and through her banishment to the 
tower because of her suspicious 
relationship with Thomas Seymour. Many 
characters in this play are survivors of the 
reign of Henry VIII and are portrayed by 
the same actors as in the Henry series.ZIT
Presented by the Activities Board. Sat
urday, Feb. 19, at 8:00 in the Skibo Ball
room. Zit Blemish and the Hot Rods emu
late a greasy 1950s rock and roll group 
that perform the moldie goldie hits of 
the rocking Fifties in an unusual and re
freshing tongue and cheek style which is 
both entertaining and amusing. The au
diences who have seen this old/new craze 
have discovered that Zit and the boys are 
more than just a musical and comical rock 
group. They are actually a theatrical exper
ience. The songs, the mood, the costumes, 
the material, the performance are so realistice that the audience actually feels that 
they are back in the Fab Fifties, reliving 
those greazy days of yester-year. The 
performance of Zit Blemish and the Hot 
Rods creates an audience participation re
minding one of the hysteria caused by Elvis 
and the Beatles. They actually clap in time, 
sing along, dance in the aisles, and exper
ience an unusual evening of fun.
Another point of interest is that all per
formers are acting majors in the Drama 
Department. Zit Blemish is portrayed by 
Glenn Super who conceived and wrote the 
act. The Hot Rods consist of Rodney 
McGrease, Leslie Gored, Buck-Knuckles 
Mulligan, and Frankie Avalance who are 
played by John Seeman, Jean Busada, Bill 
Graves and Greg Freilino.
Opening the show will be the popular 
folk group Apple Wine. The second half 
will begin with a few words and a prayer 
by the flamboyant Reverend Parker of the 
Church of the Holy Rock and Roll. Then 
accompanied by their greaser body guards, 
Zit Blemish and the Hot Rods make their 
grand entrance. And finally, an evening of 
Zit Blemish and the Hot Rods wiggling and 
wailing through songs like Heartbreak Ho
tel, Why must I be a Teenager in Love, 
Hound Dog, Little Darlin, and many, 
many more from the era that will never 
die.
TV FILMS
Stephen Saunders
A few weeks ago, I was sitting in the 
office of one of our distinguished English 
faculty.
Did you see Lost Weekend the other 
night? I said. It was tremendous. I sat in 
my room alone with a six pack of beer and 
realized that Ray Milland was what Ill be 
in fifteen years-a talented, but drunken, 
writer who can never write more than the 
first paragraph of the great American no
vel.
No, he said. I didnt see it. I dont 
have a television.
Its true that most television program
ming is a waste of time. Situation come
dies, hastily made formula adventure series, 
and inferior made-for-TV movies are usual
ly best suited for those hopefully infre
quent times when you want to spend an 
evening completely devoid of thought and 
then forget the whole experience by the 
next day.
But its also true that some really excel
lent films are being shown on TV these 
days.
Channel 13 has been showing a series of 
films called The Silent Year since De
cember on Saturday nights at 8:00 PM. 
Included in this series have been such clas
sics as Charlie Chaplins The Gold Rush, 
Buster Keatons The General, and this 
weeks AB movie, The Mark of Zorro. Its 
too bad that there are only two films left 
in the series: Rudolph Valentinos Blood 
and Sand and The Hunchback of Notre 
Dame with Lon Chaney.
For the last month or so, The Silent 
Years has been directly followed by 
another series called Film Odyssey 
which runs until July 7. Truffauts Jules 
and Jim and The Blue Angel with Mar
lene Dietrich have already been shown. Up
coming ar The Seven Samarai, Alfred 
Hitchcocks 39 Steps, Eisensteins Potem
kin, Roman Polanskis Knife in the Wa
ter, Bergmans Sawdust and Tinsel and 
many others. And in case theres a movie 
you particularly want to see, but you have 
other plans for Saturday evening, keep in 
mind that each movie is also shown the 
night before (Friday) at 8:30 PM on chan
nel 16.
If you enjoy vintage Hollywood classics, 
channel 2 has been replacing the cancelled 
Merv Griffin Show with some of the best 
selections from its old movie file: The 
Maltese Falcon and High Sierra with 
Humphrey Bogart, Poppy and If I had a 
Million with W. C. Fields, The Plainsman 
with Gary Cooper and Love Letters with 
Joseph Cotten and Jennifer Jones. For a 
while, it seemed that every weekend you 
could expect to see at least one Hollywood 
classic. Their library must be reaching a 
saturation point, however, since this week
ends films are the least interesting they 
have yet shown. Monday they are supposed 
to start picking up CBS network films at 
11:30 PM Monday through Friday. Ive 
heard that the network has been showing 
some good movies, such as A Patch of 
Blue, but this means that the good old 
movies will again be relegated to the Friday 
and Saturday late show. On Friday the 
18th, a week from tomorrow, they are 
supposed to show the Marx Brothers 
Duck Soup.
Then, of course, there is Chiller 
Theater on Saturdays at 11:30 PM on 
channel 11. The movies on Chiller are 
almost always laughably poor and Bill Cardilles routines are consistently meaning
less, but somehow its enjoyable. Someone 
once told me that this show, more than 
any other, typifies Pittsburgh. Its like Iron 
City beer-inferior, but good. And if they 
ever bring back Invasion of the Body Snatchers, make an effort to see it.
If you dont have a television-well, they
dont cost too much second hand. And if 
you dont have any money, you can use 
the TVs in the dorms, or find an all-night 
appliance store, or find me. Im probably 
sitting in my room, or elsewhere, watching, 
or at least pretending to watch whatever 
movie is on TV that night.
There is no profit in buffaloes...
Ira Picker
My shadow left my mind and went to 
walkin  round and found a nickel on the 
ground/ And the buffalo upon one side, he 
got up and walked away./ And the Indian 
on the other side gave out a sigh and said, 
That's better now. "/ Without the buffalo, 
without the buffalo,/ I'm just an Indian, 
Im free and clear.
It was Sunday, November 7, 1971 late 
in the evening at Grossingers New York, 
and about 300 National Entertainment de
legates were still talking about the incredi
ble performance Janis Ian had just put on. 
Miss Ian was the fifth act of a very long bill 
and now the sixth act was about to per
form. They were-well, they were cowboys 
and one of them strikingly resembled 
David Crosby. They were four cowbodys 
and after their first song, the audience was 
theirs.
The fours cowboys are collectively 
known as Mason Proffit, and play guitar, 
bass drums, steel pedal guitar, vocational 
banjo and other earthy instruments. Clap 
your hands shouted Terry Talbot and the 
300 gladly clapped to the music. Get up 
yelled brother John Talbot and all got up 
and danced, jumped up and down, loving 
every minute of it.
Then suddenly Mason Proffit changed 
the modd completely. Some people may 
think this harsh, said Terry Talbot, but 
frankly the Indian has been shitted upon.
The Indian went walkin  roun and sat 
upon the hill to watch the sun go down.
But he couldn't find his people, he got 
up and walked away. And he sat by the 
fire, and gave out a sigh.
Buffalo opened a lot of peoples eyes 
to what is happening to the American In
dian, which is part of what Mason Proffit 
stands for. With songs like Two Hang
men and Eugene Pratt they open 
peoples eyes to bureaucracy and war. The 
other part of Mason Proffit, however, is to 
make people happy and to make them 
dance, which they do incredibly well.
Mason Proffit combines exciting rock 
with country twang and western drawl to 
put together one hellofa show. Those who 
go to the 8:00 show on Sunday, February 
13th in Skibo Ballroom wont be disap
pointed. Theyll get at the very least the 
kind of excitement generated by Seatrain 
one year ago. Like the Grateful Dead, Ma
son Proffit brings an audience to their feet 
almost immediately becuase, instead of 
playing to show off their talent, to make 
money or gain fame, they play for the sole 
purpose of getting the audience off.
John and Terry Talbot would have cal
led their group the Talbot Brothers Band 
but named it loosely after Frank Proffit, 
who wrote Tom Dooley. The Mason 
comes from the fact that it sounded more 
country-ish than Frank. Mason Proffit is 
originally from Oklahoma but now oper
ates out of Indiana and plays often in Chi
cago.
Mason Proffit makes you laugh and 
dance about life and think and realise 
about the Indians and war.
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Coll
422-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
AAA
is owner-operated by 
MR. MOTHER, RON PELINO,
a concerned parent!
< ^TF^O^TniNHK^mother^Tieam^ 
mother" . . . you're not invited!
 Dough Made Fresh Daily 
? FINEST INGREDIENTS AWE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755 
(Across from Village Pizza)
? T *T TTTTTTTTt
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellefield Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
I'd Walk a Mile for a
BIG MOTHER
"A hell of a hoagie" 
Centre at Craig  621-6755
Vi Mile from Gabby'
Vi Mile from University Pizza 
4 Blocks from Gino's & Pete's 
200 ft. from Village Pizza
Dough made fresh daily 
Finest Ingredients
e We Deliver e
WANTED: actors, producers, 
directors, and camera 
men for now!
Pittsburgh Movie Co.
WRITE TO
KATIE RUTTENBERG
4909 Centre Ave.
Apt. No. 8 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972  Page 11
Send the love potionthat never fails.
Put her under your spell.
Send her the FTD LoveBundle.
This big, bright bouquet of 
freshly-cut flowers and Valen
tine trimmings is imaginatively 
blended in a beautiful ceramic 
bowl of world-famous Haeger Pottery. Order 
a LoveBundle early so that it can work its magic 
all week. You can send one almost anywhere by 
simply contacting your nearby FTD Florist. (Hint! He 
can send candy with your flowers, too.)
But start plotting now. Valentine's Day is Monday.
The FTD LoveBundle;
*As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices. 
1972 Florists' Transworld Delivery Association.
Jeans! 
Body Suits!"SAVE"
at theGATE
' Casual Wear! 
Dresses!fashion
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH PURCHASES!
A ALL STYLES ... ALL PRICES ?
Just off the Campus 416 S. CRAIG STREET (right off Forbes)
SYRIA MOSQUE 
FEBRUARY 18, 1972 
8:30 P.M.
BUY YOUR TICKETS AT THE STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE, 360 CATHEDRAL, CMU, AND DUQUESNE. 
IDS ARE REQUIRED. TICKETS ARE S3.00
ISAAC mi HAYES*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - Tartan, Thursday, February 10, 1972
hobson
Jon Manon
Pipe-in-animated-hand and seemingly 
oblivious to the meagerness of the Thurs
day noontime audience, Peoples Party pro
visional vice-presidential candidate Julius 
Hobson \ranted (by his own admission) 
easily but convincingly about this coun
trys present shortcomings and future alter
natives. In a style which might be ob
trusively dubbed common-sense-radicalpopulist, Mr. Hobson, an employee of the 
Washington Institute for Quality Education 
and a lecturer at American University, 
came down hard on American racism, the 
denigration of women, the irrelevancy of 
most university education (We read chap
ter one today, and then chapter two tom
orrow.), and the economic inequalities 
blemishing our society today. He explained 
his involvement in presidential politics as 
an immediate attempt at solution building, 
for although he said that he and other 
colleagues in the Poeples Party believe in 
revoltuion-were not going to make one 
now, because we dont want to lose.
Julius Hobson indicated that he sees in
volvement in a third party as the only 
route to honest, meaningful politics, sub
stantiating this belief on the unrelenting 
record of status quo preservation compiled 
by both Democratic and Republican part
ies. He contended that to try to work with
in the framework of either major party is 
debilitating because one inevitably con
fronts the dictum that Youre going to 
fall in line baby, or get the hell out.
Hobson suggested that decademt eco
nomic institutions lie at the root of much 
of Americas current travail. For instance, 
he observed that the racism which has 
become a part of our nervous systems, 
and is manipulated by demagogues who... 
exploit our differences arose as a 
rationalization for economic exploitation. 
A long-time civil rights activist. Mr. Hobson 
emphasized that he and other black people 
fought for integration not to sit down 
next to somebody with blue eyes, but be
cause across the street was where the gravy 
was.
The American dilemma, said Hobson, is 
not one of inadequate production, but 
rather one of inequitable distribution; the 
obvious solution being that were going to 
have to do something about the redistribu
tion of wealth. Programs to this end ad
vocated by Julius Hobson include heavier 
taxation of corporate riches (enforcement 
of Americas progressive tax structure), 
nationalization with remuneration of cer
tain industries, and a reformation of go
vernmental economic regulatory agencies 
(Todays regulatory agencies militate on 
behalf of the producers, not the con
sumers.) He cited Swedish and Canadian 
economic insitutions as a demonstration 
that his program is eminently viable.
An immediate reason for Hobsons visit 
to CMU is that the Peoples Party will 
shortly begin petitioning locally to be in
cluded on the Pennsylvania ballot in April. 
If vice-presidential candidate Hobson and 
his presidential running-mate Dr. Benjamin 
Spock (a legend in his time-a grand old 
man-Im very comfortably running with 
him) are to have their names on the Penn
sylvania ballot, then their party must col
lect 36,000 signatures from the states resi
dents. The Peoples Party is attempting to 
litigate the question of this prohibitive 
petition, which Hobson feels is an unfair 
attempt to keep third parties out of elect
ions, but will meanwhile try to Field the 
required number of signatures.
In a moment of sobrietous realism, 
Julius Hobson admitted that Im under no 
illusion that I am going to replace Agnew 
in November, but he said that he was very 
strongly under the illusion that there are 
urgencies which need airing but which are 
not being talked about by either Democra
tic or Republican politicians, and he 
believes that the Peoples Party might 
prove very important in beginning the dia
logue which is a pre-requisite of pro
ductive change.
H&SSThere will be an H&SS student body 
meeting on Tuesday, February 15 at 11:30
a.m. It will be held in the Wherret Room. 
The main item of business is the election of 
Freshman class representatives to the 
College Council, followed by an open 
meeting to guide and inform the student 
representatives.
The H&SS student body has been 
largely inactive for the past two years, 
despite the fact that most of the original 
issues facing the college have never been 
resolved, and that many new and critical 
issues have arisen. One example of this 
inactivity was the failure of a previous 
attempt to elect student representatives, 
when no students appeared for the 
election.
Perhaps it is not commonly known that 
each class has two representatives to the 
College Council, the governing body of 
H&SS, and that those eight students 
comprise approximately one third of that 
body. This is a potentially effective bloc, 
particularly if it is backed by the students.
No effective means of communication 
has yet existed between the student 
representatives and their constituency; 
such communication is essential to student 
representation on the College Council 
realizing its effectiveness. For this reason 
the Tuesday town meeting is of great 
importance.
JOBS
Job opportunities in Europe this sum
merWork this summer in the forests of 
Germany, on construction in Austria, on 
farms in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, 
on road construction in Norway, in Indus
tries in France and Germany, in hotels in 
Switzerland.
Well there are these jobs available as will 
as jobs in Ireland, England, France, Italy, 
and Holland are open by the consent of the 
governments of these countries to Ameri
can university students coming to Europe 
the next summer.
For several years students made their 
way across the Atlantic through A.E.S. 
Service to take part in the actual life of the 
people of these countries. The success of 
this project has caused a great deal of en
thusiastic interest and support both in 
America and Europe.
Every year, the program has been ex
panded to include many more students and 
jobs. Already, many students have made 
application for next summer jobs. American-European Student Service (on a nonprofitable basis) is offered these jobs to 
students for Germany, Scandanavia, Eng
land, Austria, Switzerland, France, Italy, 
and Spain. The jobs consist of forestry 
work, child care work (females only), farm 
work, hotel work (limited number avail
able), construction work, and some other 
more qualified jobs requiring more special
ized training.
The purpose of this program is to afford 
the student an opportunity to get into real 
living contact with the people and customs 
of Europe. In this way, a concrete effort 
can be made to learn something of the 
culture of Europe. In return for his or her 
work, the student will receive his or her 
room and board, plus a wage. However, 
student should keep in mind that they will 
be working on the European economy and 
wages will naturally be scaled accordingly. 
The working conditions (hours, safety, 
regulations, legal protection, work permits) 
will be strictly controlled by the labor 
ministries of the countries involved.
In most cases, the employers have re
quested especially for American students. 
Hence, they are particularly interested in 
the student and want to make the work as 
interesting as possible.
Please write for further information and 
applications forms to: AmericanEurope
an Student Service, Box 34733, FL 9490 
Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Europe).
Editor-in-Chief.........................Jan Rosen
News Editor.............................Frank Cox
Features Editor .....................Tom Davis
Sports Editor ..........................Jude Heller
Graphics .........................' Mark Seymour
Photography Editor . . . .Neal Binstock
Business Manager.................Alice Bright
Entertainment .... Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
Paste-up .............................Arnold Sonn
News Staff .........................John Agatston
Renee Banks, Nate Burden 
Grace D'Alo, Anne Friedman 
Mina Gerall, Steve Jurman 
Marilyn Turner 
Features Staff . Leslie Bram, Marc Field 
John Gross, Walter Koehler 
Ron Lasser, Terence N. Palso 
s. Stephen Saunders
Sports Staff . . . Chuck Bond, Dan Buis 
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Jim Powers, Jon Swierzewski 
Photography Staff .... Elliot Arons 
Jay Caras, Jim Hermann 
Roger Lawrence, Ed Levine
Copy Staff .............................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising .........................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
HAD ANY?
jelly. Its cost is minimal and it may be 
worn for sometimes preceding and after 
intercourse and not cause any difficulty 
with insertion. Its only drawbacks are the 
fitting (for size) by a physician and must 
be inserted each time intercourse is exper
ience. However, it cannot interfere with 
sensation and the user hardly knows its 
there. The jelly or cream must be inserted 
no more than six hours before intercourse, 
but the diaphragm may stay in place up to 
twenty-four hours. A fourth effective me
thod is the use of a vaginal spermicide, 
which is applied just prior to intercourse. It 
is simple to use and offers no discomfort. 
It can be purchased cheaply and without a 
prescription. For both this method and the 
diaphragm, the contraceptive must be left 
in place for at least six hours after inter
course to insure the death of the sperm. A 
morning-after pill is available for those 
who neglect precautions ahead of time, and 
can be taken any time within seventy two 
hours after intercourse. However, nausea 
and vomiting usually accompany its neces
sary five day usage, but its effectiveness is 
high.
Still in the experimental stage is a con
traceptive which could be taken without 
regard to time or date of intercourse if a 
woman is late for her period. If during her 
cycle, she has had intercourse and her 
period is late, ingestion of this preparation 
induces a period almost immediately with
out fail, However, it is still being developed 
and will require FDA approval before it 
may be marketed.
Male contraception was also mentioned, 
however, it is limited and may be uncom
fortable, although it is fairly effective and 
also prevents the spread of venereal disease.
Both the rhythm method and douching 
were termed inadequate by Dr. Meyers, 
who strongly advised against their use.
If, in the event that a pregnancy does 
occur, despite precautions, legal abortions 
are safe and sure. In New York, through a 
reputable agency, abortions can be had 
fairly cheaply legally and safely. In Alle
gheny County, a recent court decision 
found abortion prevention unconstitution
al. The clinic at which Dr. Meyers works at 
Magee Hospital is always ready to help and 
offers its services to the community. It is 
located at Forbes and Halket Sts. and the 
telephone number there is 681-5700. A 
full-time (24 hrs. weekdays) physician will 
be on duty in the very near future for any 
problems in this field. The clinic hopes to 
be able to offer similar service on weekends 
sometimes in the future.
