photo by John Loglis
igry students demonstrated in front of Skibo before Wednsedays press conference. Presiient Cyert signed a development contract with IBM.
tudents will hold rally
ly MARGARET EISSLER
tartan Staffwriter 
A rally against the proposed increase in 
Juition will be held in front of Warner Hall, 
Friday, October 29, at 4:15 p.m. Its purpose, 
[f cording to Laura Sabadell, Student Senate 
nance committee chairman is to show the 
'nilustration that, (it is) not only the 
?nate, but a majority of the campus who is 
incerned over the proposed 19% increase in 
ntion.
We re not analogous to the Soviet people 
rho will accept such outrage. This rally 
fill add another factor to the administra111 s decision-making process over tui( )n Student Government President, 
|ate Solano. They will know that they are
 for protest and potentially some
embarrassment.
The administration is now more press
conscious because of the computer issue, he 
said. He hopes this rally will make them 
think twice about the proposed increase in 
tuition.
Solano is chair of the committee which 
organized the rally, whose members include 
Sabadell, Judy Mont, Paula Franklin, and 
Adam Wolf. The Senate has received many 
complaints about the proposed increase in 
tuition, and both Sabadell and Solano feel 
that there is enough resentment against the 
increase to suppon the rally.
After the rally, the administration will be 
given a chance to speak and air their side of 
the issue.
MU, IBM sign computer agreement
Damn the students, full speed ahead!"
By MONICA J. CEI J JO
Tartan News Editor
Last week President Richard Cyert signed 
a contract with IBM to develop a personal 
computing plan for CMU, while students
protested.
The aim of the plan is to pro! vide every student with his own 
ersonal computer. IBM will 
develop the machines, and 
Cyert hopes to have the first large installa
tion in 1985. By 1991, he expects to have 7500 
computers available, each with its own gra
phics display. All of these computers will be 
linked in a large network, so that communi
cation between any two people on the sys
tem will be possible.
The computer system that we are devel
oping will be a revolution in education, 
Cyert said at a press conference Wednesday. 
I I expect that this will be looked back upon 
in 25 or 30 years as the most significant move 
in the 20th century as far as higher education 
is concerned.
According to Cyert each student will 
I probably own a personal computer, and all
will be linked together in a single net
work to allow easy communication. This 
will be the largest network in history, Cyert 
said.
We will design the system so that all 
students can have access, said Doug Van 
Houweling, Vice Provost, but the decision 
about requiring computers for everyone will 
not be made before 1984.
Universities are a center of information 
processing, added Provost Richard Van 
Horn. Computers are another capital 
innovation, like libraries were once. For 
this reason, he feels that CMU must develop 
its computing power now.
Cyert added, This step is imperative! 
Universities that havent begun planning 
this sort of development are regretting it 
already. He said students will be able to 
increase their learning by as much as 50% 
with computers helping them.
Goofball Students
Some students, however, are not pleased 
with the plan. Several students protested 
outside of the press conference on Wednes
day, many carrying signs bearing slogans
such as Damn the students! Full speed 
ahead, CMU computer policy bytes, and 
Does this mean IBM owns CMU?
The students were barred from the press 
conference.
Laura Sabadell, Student Senate finance 
chair, said she heard Cyert say to Brad Wal
ter, acting dean of Student Affairs, Did you 
see those goofball students? Why dont you 
see if you can disperse them. Sabadell said 
this comment was made in front of her and 
one other senator.
Students have two main complaints  
that the machines may be required, and that 
they were misled and kept from presenting 
their views. Student Senate passed a resolu
tion last week which said: Whereas, the 
Administration has not made an effective 
effort to inform the students, be it resolved 
by the students of Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity in Student Senate assembled, that we the 
students believe that no student should be 
required to purchase any computing equip
ment. The resolution was submitted by 
Andy Stahl and passed 15-7 by a roll call 
vote.
We are representing our constituents by
saying we dont want personal computers, 
said Janelle Molloy, Senate vice chair.
The students will be guinea pigs, added 
Scott Safier. Said Tom McCarthy, It is 
important for us to help form this contract. 
We werent required to buy calculators 
when they were the wave of the future, 
said John Snyde, chairman of the academic 
affairs committee.
In addition, students say they were misin
formed. They never told us what was pro
posed until after it was decided, Snyder 
said. It was organized to avoid significant 
input and protest. The administration is 
telling us the decisions they have already 
made, Safier added.
The trustees approved this in executive ses
sion, without the students, they threw us all 
out, said Student Government President 
Nate Solano. In addition, Stahl said, Pro
vost Dan Berg said at the Research Commit
tee meeting of the trustees that there were no 
research plans in this.
Not all Senators supported the resolution, 
however. Its the students personal
option, said Dave Lechner. They dont 
continued on igry e
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 Volume 83, Number 7, October 26, 1982.
Services improved
Stover announces plans
B. With options
19 Meals$645$2.14
155752.42
104752.99
5 (Any time)2853.60
A third complaint was that there are often 
no glasses in the cafeterias. The problem 
stems from students borrowing glasses for 
their rooms, Stover said.
Another complaint was that dishes and 
silverware are often dirty. Stover said that 
this is not dirt, but that spots form when 
utensils are not dried completely before 
being set out. He said the dishwashers have 
been readjusted to correct the problem.
There were many suggestions for new 
meals which Stover said will be used in the 
future. Food Service is also willing to try 
ntCudCsyw on igry lh
In this issue
Editorial
The future of Computing..............page 2
News
Students present opinions.................page 7
Disc, board members named........page 14
Features
Xeroxs bugs repaired.......................page 17
Wecht at Forum tomorrow..........page 21
Entertainment
The Clash reuiewed.......................page 23
Robin Williams at the Stanley ... page 28
Sports
Football wins two.........................page 31
Girls tennis takes title...................page 31
By CARL WEICHERT
Special for The Tartan
The Student Dorm Councils Food Ser
vice committee recently investigated com
mon complaints of students. Comments 
were collected in Skibo and Morewood and 
presented to Ken Stover, director of food 
service.
The complaint voiced the most often was 
about the food contract plan. Students 
wanted to know why they couldnt have a 
constant pass contract; they thought that 
if a person misses a meal, he should be able 
to make it up at later time.
Stover said that under the current plan, 
Food Service expects students to miss a cer
tain number of meals per week, and this is 
figured into the price. If students could get 
all of their meals at any time, Stover said, 
contract prices would have to be increased 
considerably.
Another change which students asked for 
which would cause the price to rise is serv
ing orange and other juices at all meals in 
Kiltie, instead of just at breakfast. A glass of 
juice costs 18< more than a glass of pop. 
Stover said he would be willing to place 
juice vending machines in Kiltie, with the 
juice being served at cost.
This 1981-82 budget shows the extent to 
which prices would be raised to allow both 
constant pass contracts and juice at every 
meal.
Stover did not think studenis would want 
to pay the extra money.
A. Present System
Meal Plan Semester Cost Cost/Meal
19 Meals $595 $1.97
15 525 2.21
10 425 2.67
5 (Lunches) 235 2.88

---------------------------------------------------

Students urged to show unity against tuition increase
By Nate Solano
Dear Goof-ball students,
If you dont know by now, there is going 
to be a tuition protest rally this Friday at 4:15 
p.m. on the steps of Warner Hall. In short, 
Hyou have to attend. This is the 
most risky undertaking the 
/m Senate has supported in several 
years and the Administration 
wants it to fail. Why do they want it to fail? 
BAD PUBLICITY! The media has been 
informed and seems responsive to our cause.
Incidentally our cause happens to be the 
protest of next years 19% tuition increase of 
$1200. Considering the present economy of
our nadon combined with an infladon rate No matter how many times you listen to the administration acknowledge our
of a single figure I honestly believe that our 
cause is just. My personal tuition cost has 
increased almost 60% since freshman year 
and other classes face similar increases.
Youve all complained and the time has 
come to act. If the rally fails, the Administra
tion will win a major battle with the realiza
tion that students will not dare face them 
even in the light of outrage. If we are success
ful, then we have set the precedent of stand
ing up for our rights and moved towards the 
recognition of our University as a body of 
STUDENTS rather then a corporation of 
workers.
your Dead Kennedys album this week the 
administration wont notice. Your only 
recourse is to attend the rally and scream 
your lungs out.
The rally should be short, strategically 
placed between your last class and happy 
hour. I am being held responsible for dam
ages and Im expecting (pleading) that there 
will be none. Im expecting CFA, CIT, 
MCS, H (and) SS, AMS, SUPA ,GSIA, grad 
and undergrad alike to attend this protest. 
Maybe youll be able to see yourself on 
Action News at 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. if 
not you can get the satisfaction of makingA day with real live-in campus computer
By Christopher Johnston
It is October 26, 1990, Suzy Hacknurd 
drags herself from bed in the morning, 
yawns, scratches her right buttock, then 
walks her still sleeping body over to her very/
H | own personal computer and 
logs in.
Sounds offensive? Well here at 
CMU personal computers will 
soon be a reality. At least thats what all the 
major media sources say and of course they 
should know whats going on before the 
students, right? For instance, USA Today, 
that colorful quagmire of generic jibberish, 
stated in one of its articles that Stanford and 
MIT are closely watching the experiment at 
Camegie-Mellon University. But anyway, 
lets go spend some time with Suzy Hack
nurd and see how she fares with her per
sonal computer.
Suzy decides to look at her mail first, since 
she already did her homework in a twin
kling the night before. Her first letter is 
from her boyfriend, Leonard Cyborg, who 
works in the computation center.
"Dear Suzy, writes Leonard, I hate you.
I am so angry at you for spilling beer on my 
personal computer thus causing it to short 
circuit and breakwithout possibility of 
repair because Physical plant isnt answer
ing my calls that I have decided to leave you. 
As a going away present, I have used my 
computer privilege to expunge all of your 
files, Ha! ha! ha! Suzys heart leaps into her 
throat. Being an art major, she had been 
using Leonard to meet powerful computer 
programmers, so that she would have some
body worthwhile to marry after graduation. 
Plus she had a file full of computer graphics 
that now no longer exist.
Whew, says Suzy, Im glad that I dont 
have any other use for the computer besides 
those computer graphics. If it were truly a 
useful tool, I would really be in trouble. 
Suzy had been forced to buy her own com
puter for $750, even though her parents 
wanted to use that money to feed her twelve 
brothers and sisters. As first, Suzy hated her 
computer, but as time went on and as her 
addiction to the easy life of computers grew, 
she began to enjoy it.
She had an especially fun time painting
her terminal with flowers and surrealistic 
portraits of Kurt Vonnegut. As a matter of 
fact, that was the last time she ever even had 
to use paints and paintbrushes and all that 
other old fashioned stuff. "Computer gra
phics have enabled her to do all her work at 
a terminal. She proudly notes that she could 
fit all of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 
just one of her computer bytes.
She once used EMACS when she took an 
H8cSS writing course. In less time than it 
takes to control C, she was finally spelling 
ntCudCsyw tC igry o
Opinion PolicyI.
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. Letters-to-the-Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the wnters address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter.
problem.
As usual Ill be in the office from 3:00 to 
5:00 P.M. on Wednesday ami 7:00 to 9:00 on 
Thursday. If any questions exist concerning 
the rally or anything else I can be reached at 
687-6404. j .yfjz
Nate Solano is a junior majoring in AMS 
and is President of the Student Government.TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief.................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor......................... Vince Guinto
Business Manager..........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor...................................Monica Gellio
Features Editor................................ Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.......................................................... Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor........................John Stilwell
Contributing Editor........................Gregg Bossier
Art Director.....................................Diane Thodos
Production Manager............Carolyn Sperana
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor............Joanne Savinell
Associate Photo Editor.....................Gene Yonish
Asst. Features Editor...............Pauline Kramer
Asst. Ent Editor..........................John Cantine
Asst Sports Editor.............................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Mgr....................Kathleen Wasd
Production Staff: Mary Avjian, Peter Bain. 
Margaret Eissler, Andrew Ghali, Ross Serin, Jn 
Siegel, Cars ten Thode, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Be 
reserves the right to withhold from publication an' 
ropy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Office 
Slubo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Ski bo $-< 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Sthenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 152$ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartenPage 3
Letters
Cyert insensitive, says senator
Editor:
I am writing this letter out of anger and 
frustration. It started boiling with the 
inquiries into the future of computing here 
and was ignited by my discussion with Pres
ident Cyert last Wednesday after the press
conference.
Since the beginning of this semester, the 
Student Senate has been asking questions of 
the administration about the proposed com
puting project. The committees always 
came back with the same report; the project 
is still in the discussion stages with no com
mitments planned and no specific answers 
to the questions we posed. The administra
tions panel for the future of computing was 
composed of eighteen members, only two of 
which were students and both were compsci majors.
Open campus forums were held on seveveial occasions, intended by the administra
tion to supply student input; however, no 
facts were provided for the students to make 
meaningful contributions.
I found these situations in themselves 
intolerable, but Cyert put the icing on the
mismanagement of a multimillion dollar 
project and a blatant disregard for the stu
dents well being.
Camegie-Mellon University is not a cor
poration, it is a non-profit institution of 
learning where the students are an integral 
part of the system. We will no longer prove 
ourselves to be apathetic U. and allow our
selves to be railroaded into situations that 
feed the reputations of some top executives 
at this University. We demand straight 
answers to all of our questions; it can not be 
that such a business-minded man, such as 
our President, would sign his name to a 
contract, heavily committing this Univer
sity financially without knowing how it 
will be paid or whos paying for what. Most 
importantly, though, we demand to be 
treated with equity. We have nothing if we 
do not have respect.
By the way, there will be a tuition rally 
Friday, October 22, in front of Warner Hall 
at 4:15 pm. If you want to protest, be there.
Laura Sabadell 
Chairperson of finance committee 
Student Senate
cake. I approached him after the press con-[erec for the sigmng of the con^t wi* igryentC yudsw wlgeuh ot wnehathA pgrrsapdnthIBM, to inform him that the students were 
not protesting the possibility of the compu
ters campus-wide, but that we felt very 
strongly about the lack of student participa
tion on a project basing its success on the 
cooperation, financially and academically, 
of the students.
Cyert answered me, quite unpleasantly, 
that it shouldnt bother me because I wasnt 
going to be here in 85 for it to affect me or to 
pay for it, so why should I care! From most 
accounts, Cyert doesnt plan to be here in a 
couple of years either, so why should he care 
how this will affect the University?
One of the purposes of Student Senate is 
to concern itself with the future of the Uni
versity and the way it will affect student life. 
Therefore, it is my duty not only as a sena
tor, but also as a future alumni, who Warner 
Hall will hope to suck money from, to act in 
the student bodys best interest NOW. How 
could the administration expect the alumni 
of tomorrow to contribute any sum of 
money when we are now witnessing a gross
Kappa Sigma reply
Editor
Lately, there has been a lot of controversy 
surrounding the development of a personal 
computer network at CMU. I am not 
opposed to the development of the network, 
in fact I support it. I think the administra
tion has generated a lot of animosity on the 
subject by making it very difficult for stu
dents to get accurate information on the 
current status of the project.
I dont think the University should make 
purchasing your own personal computer 
mandatory for all students. Buying your 
own computer will add an unnecessary 
financial burden to the students already 
tight budgets. Secondly, for students 
enrolled in some majors, the computer may 
not provide a sufficiendy high enough level 
of utility to justify its cost. Providing clusters 
of the networked computers and giving the 
students the option to purchase their own 
computers seems to be a much better plan.
In the past, the administrations attempts 
at communication have been ineffective. 
The administration should work on devel
oping better methods of two way communi
cation which will provide adequate 
feedback to the students. Adequate feedback 
does not imply that the administration has 
to agree with the students opinion.
To the best of my knowledge, the logisti
cal problems of having computers in the 
dormitories havent been investigated yet. 
CMU is currently suffering from over
crowded, cramped dormitories. How will 
the computers be integrated into the dorms 
without creating an even bigger space prob
lem? Finally, there are still a large number of 
unanswered questions concerning the 
repair and maintenance of the personal 
computers.
It appears that the social implications of 
the network also havent been studied. The 
campus already has a tendency to promote a 
low level of social interaction among stu
dents. The possibility of doing almost all 
your work from your computer will proba
bly tend to reenforce this dangerous ten
dency. The computer network may also 
tend to cut down on student-faculty 
relations.
It is imperative that the University studies 
the logistical and social implications erf the 
computer network as thoroughly as they 
research and develop the technology for the 
computer network.
Jon Maiman 
Sophomore Electrical Engineering
Photography not a fine art?
rat incident fictitious
itor:
We realize that the media shouldnt be 
sed as an arena for fray among individuals 
r factions, but we must express our outrage 
to Andrew Hudsons letter in the October 5th
artan.
In addition to unpredicted slander, the 
acts were dead wrong. A Kappa Sigma 
ledge pin hasnt been worn on this campus 
ince April 4, 1982, our last initiation. Even 
we are forced to wonder how many peole not affiliated with Kappa Sigma can 
ecognize our pledge pin.
It doesnt say Kappa Sigma in English or 
reek. It has no writing at all, merely a 
duceus. One who walks down our steps at
etter raises questions
itor:
A recent letter in The Tartan raises some 
uestions. How did the Universitys Discilinary Committee acquire the constituonal rights to try such crimes as aggravated 
ssault, rape and malicious violence? 
ouldn t the victims and the accuseds 
ghts be better protected if such cases were 
ndled by the civil authorities?
John Acklin
2:30 am is not necessarily a brother and cer
tainly not a pledge.
We vent our most heated anger at The 
Tartan. In a letter entitled Responsibility, 
you publish ravings of someone who was 
admittedly involved with alcohol and 
claims to have seen something in the middle 
of the night that he probably could not des
cribe. Please try to raise your level of journal
ism to something above paltry. With 
diligence your paper may someday become 
comparable to even the National Enquirer.
Mark Ferris 
Eric Mendelsohn 
Dave Freda 
Mike Kind 
Ted Prospect
We suggest that you read The Tartans 
opinion policy  To ravingly imply that a 
letter to the editor should reflect our level of 
journalism is slander in itself. But as you 
can see, we publish all opinions, whether 
we agree with them or not.
Nevertheless, we do appreciate your 
encouragement as we strive to emulate that 
bulwark of bulbous reportings The 
National Enquirer. Thank you for your val
uable contribution to our publication.
Editors
Editor:
The last show presented in CFAs Hewlett 
Gallery: photographs by design department 
professor Harold Corsini, raises some press
ing questions, particularly in the light that 
it was commissioned by Richard Cyert. For 
those who havent seen it, the show was a 
series of pictures devoted to the University 
and student life at CMU, presented in a 
pretty, picture-postcard manner.
It reminds one of the traditional court 
portrait artists who painted their monarchs 
minus warts, pox marks and hooked noses. 
Granted, some of the photos are strikingly 
attractive, but one must keep asking, the 
University in these picture looks beautiful, 
the people happy and fulfilled, but where is 
the eye that sees the depression in February, 
the mice that run through the hallways of 
Fine Arts, the women heckled by Fraternity 
boys as they cross Forbes Avenue?
Clearly the administration has, in this
case, used photography as a tool, particu
larly since it was so timely installed, just in 
time for Homecoming. The irony that is 
at -work here is that, while the administra
tion will commission photographic works 
to glorify the University, they will not, in 
any way, support even a single beginning 
photography class in the art department.
I can think of no major art school, that 
wishes to be taken seriously, that omits pho
tography from its curriculum. The adminis
tration will argue, Ah, but you art students 
can take photography in the design depart
ment. A single class in another department 
is a poor substitute for a major course of 
study of photography as a fine an. What 
does this say about the way the administra
tion views the role of photography; and how 
does this view eventually shape the esthetic 
values of the students who study at CMU?
Kristen Bjaastad 
Student, Art DepartmentSquare dance
GSO sponsors ballroom date
Editor
The Graduate Student Organization is 
sponsoring a square dance with Ron Bucha
nan and Swinging on the Gate in the 
Skibo Ballroom from 8:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
on Friday, Oct. 29. This event is open to 
everyone. Admission is free with a CMU 
student ID and $3.00 otherwise. Non
alcoholic refreshments will be served.
For the uninitiated, square dancing to 
string band music is not the same as your 
high school gym class. The Western Pen
nsylvanian style erf dancing is much freer in 
form than the precision Western Squares.
Come on out and join the fun. See you 
there.
Charles Kraffi 
GSO President

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 26, 1982
More lettersAdministration should investigate consequences of its pians
Editor
I cannot recall meeting a single under
grad who favors the CMU personal comput
ing plan as stated in the papers last week. 
Most people I have spoken to (and myself) 
object to the feature of requiring every 
undergraduate (including those in Fine Arts 
and others who have no need for learning of 
computers, much less owning them) to pur
chase a $3000 to $5000 computer.
President Cyert seems to have changed his 
steadfast dedication to this requirement 
(from what was said at the press conference), 
but the machines will be expensive to buy 
and maintain, and the bulk of that expense 
will fall on the student in any case.
Yes, some day many of us will be wired in 
to all kinds of hairy information and com
puter networks and will be dependent on 
them to get our jobs done, but in our life
time that many will not be most When 
it really is necessary to depend on computers 
and information networks to live and work,
such devices will cost less and be easier to use 
than anything that can be built today (or by 
1985).
The price of the machine bothers me a lot. 
Very few people keep such costly items in 
their dorm rooms for two reasons: theft and 
vandalism. What will happen when all the 
personal computers in Morewood E Tower 
are stolen? What does someone do if a friend 
accidently spills a Coke on his machine? I 
dont believe that most students will fully 
realize the cost and delicacy of the machines. 
One can very easily damage a computer if 
one doesnt carefully read the instructions 
beforehand (assuming the instructions are 
adequate).
Never has there been such a large concen
tration of computers in an area the size of 
our campus, and never have so many 
machines (5000 to 8000) been put on a single 
network. The administration wants to see 
this done, and wants CMU to be the first to 
do it. CMU has set a date for implementing
this plan before it has been thoroughly 
explored. It may be that in 1985 machines 
are still too expensive and unreliable, and 
networking technology is still not advanced 
enough to handle a large-scale computeriza
tion. The result will be a disappointment for 
the first few years of the plan.
I remember the Computation Center hav
ing bad weeks (and months, and semesters...), 
and they have had only a handful of 
machines and half the projected user com
munity that the personal computer plan, 
has. The support staff for such a' large, 
decentralized facility will be huge.
The cost to develop software so that engi
neers, scientists, writers, historians, artists, 
and business people can effectively use this 
tool theyll be required to buy will be very 
high. Quality software costs money, and this 
gigantic undertaking will require original 
software erf every kind. It does not seem that 
the university community will benefit from 
this undertaking because of this large cost.
$3000 per student, whether it comes from 
the student directly or indirectly, could do 
amazing things to our libraries and dormi
tories. And what about that student union 
we still dont have? Being the first university 
to computerize everything in sight will cer
tainly gain CMU recognition, but will the 
students have a better place to leam and live?
Skef Wholey 
Junior, Applied Math/CS
cgrts as JdCb
Editor:
I would like to comment on the opinion 
article written by Andy Stahl and the rest of 
this letter is directed toward him . . .
When first viewing your opinion artide 
on a possible solution to this nations unem
ployment problem by drafting women into 
the Armed Forces, my only sincere hope was 
that these were not your true feelings on the 
subject. If you had any other motive except 
for humor in writing your ridiculous article, 
then you definitely will have some major 
setbacks in successfully pursuing your 
chosen career of social science. You call your 
reasons valid, but each was shortsighted or 
chauvinistic and usually both.
The article shows your obvious low opin
ion of women and their abilities. Rosie the 
Riveter was big time during World War II as 
the women more than adequately filled the 
jobs left open by the absent men, who were 
fighting and dying, not having a good time. 
Few men (with the possible exception of 
yourself and others who hold your opin
ions) would be willing to work in a war
time economy knowing that women 
would be fighting instead of themselves. 
Neither conservatives nor liberals approve 
of or even look for a draft of women (cer
tainly not for combat duty), which you so 
gleefully point out as another of your many 
reasons. As for your last brilliant insight, the 
ntCudCsyw tC igry le
aAAyrpyCc JtbyCfW HyCuy,
an out patient medical clinic oilermg 
 abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests 
 personal counseling * birth control services 
* gynecological care
FeO2O9O4 
:,yrCgCnc 1yWudCr HyCuy,
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
5hlO. eom21I[1Inthh hisue Lrtt e npen ddy tnh phrgruncy hehu Int hnunhiteg.
AlleghenyWomensCenter
LtwcSyg,
yrSyg,
ttuSyg,
aAWt' Sy wyWdrC
Complete Line of
THEATRICAL and 
DANCE SUPPLIES
Jecm
3007 Jenkins Arcade 
Downtown Pittsburgh
A COLLEGE DEGREE 
IS OIXLY THE START
 WORKSHOPS  NETWORKERS  RECRUITERS 
Fri., Nov. 12 Sat., Nov. 13 9 - 6:00
David Lawrence Convention Center, 1001 Penn Avenue
t cts updC( )yngsWy cts St,(yw pg,w ?t, cts, wyr,yy' cts wyWy,jy g 
rttw vt)% uTW Ctu upgu ygWco4k t? gAA gjgdAg)Ay vt)W g,y Cyjy, gwjy,udWywyg,C ptS ut ugi dCut upy pdwwyC vt) bg,(yu gCw )sdAw ntCugnuW gu upy 
JtbyCTW Hg,yy, HtCjyCudtC' gCw ryu WtAdw' i,gnudngA gwjdny tC ptS ut 
Cyrtudguy g WgAg,c' ntCwsnu g WsnnyWW?sA dCuy,jdyS' gCw ug(y Wpt,u nsuW ut 
)sdAw cts, ng,yy,- Jpyupy, t, Ctu ctsT,y r,gwsgudCr updW cyg,' updW dW tCy 
ntC?y,yCny cts ngCTu g??t,w ut bdWW dAA tsu upy ntsitC CtS ut ,yrdWuy,-
Dr. fgWpt HCgnltCwA psychol
ogist and author, "What 
Every Woman Should 
Know About Men"
,dCauWs ,gdnw FtssthWA 
GLAMOUR Magazine Ca
reers Editor, "Current Ca
reer Strategies"
Fdnt Odsh 2gWhA Editor, 
Working Woman Maga
zine, "How To Make The 
Bad Times Good"ACT iVOW Mfl SAVE
Before October 29, admission is $15 a day. Or, you can save with the 
two-day special price of $25. Purchase tickets at Kaufmann's or use the 
coupog below. For more information, call the Hotline, (412) 391-5100, or 
Sally Harris at Leigh Communications, (312) 951-7600.
Send me advance tickets:
? Friday $15 ? Saturday $15 ? Both Days $25
Name_________________________________________________Phone (_______)________________________
Address 
CityStateZip
? Visa
Enclosed is my check made payable to Leigh Communications, Inc., for $__
OR
Please charge tickets to: ? Mastercard
Account #_____________________________________Exp. Date_____________________________________
Signature_______________________________________________________________________________________
9uu nap4tn gChtCw rewn ot dppgrydsath oW d wtu:1dhhCtwwthA wndryth oewastww 
ts5tugyt. Tickets are non-refundable.
Return to: Leigh Communications, Inc., 676 St. Clair, Suite 1800, Chicago, IL 60611
:ptCy F9l2lhOO

---------------------------------------------------

Okay, ye serfs, if youre angry about next years 19% increase in tuition, 
this is your only chance to let the kings men know.
Funded by your activities fee
*BYOB
Friday, Oct. 29 
4:15 p.m.
In front of Warner Hall 
(on the cut  kill the grass)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 26, 1982
H0V0I
COMING TO HEAVEN
October 28th  WDVE Party with 805.
805 buys all the draft 
beer from 9 to 10 p.m. 
November 4th  Psychadelic Furs 
November 11 th  Romeo Void
THE COMMITTEE 
ON PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES 
THE'UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
2 YEAR MASTERS PROGRAM 
AND POLKA ANALYSIS
Steve Loevy, Administrative Director, will 
be on campus to discuss the programs 
and career opportunities,
Tuesday, November 2, 1982, 9, 10, 11, 1:30 
Skibo Hall Room 11 
Please call for appointment f .V * 
578-2107 Anne Witchners office 
Interested students with any major 
are invited to attend the meetings.
Studv polio issues such ax urban fiscal stress, health care, housing, international trade, economic development, taxation, regulation. Federalism, welfare, energy, arms control, immigration, etc.
Computer deal discussed
pnoto Dy Brian Yen
Richard Van Horn, Richard Cyert, and Lou Branscomb discuss the contract
photo by Bob Fishd |
Senators Andy Stahl and Judy Mont make their views known to the press.
Horn said.
The Information Technology Center will 
be established at CMU, and about 30 people 
will be employed. Most of these will be from 
IBM, according to Cyert, with 5 or 10 
coming from CMU. The center will be 
funded by IBM, and the computers IBM 
brings in will stay there. They needed their 
own machine room for security, Van Horn 
said. Theyll be developing projects there. 
CMtJ gets to see them two or three years 
before anyone else.
This agreement is a very serious ven
ture, Cyert said. CMU has committed sig
nificant resources already, and we are 
prepared to get more to assure success. 
These resources include space, personnel, 
and some money. The exact amount of 
money is not known. Some costs you cant 
even predict, and some might be elininated, he said.
In response to questions about the details 
of the contract, Cyert said, There is nothing 
in the contract that is a secret. However, he 
would not provide students with a copy. 
Van Horn added that there could be legal
problems with IBM if the contract got out, | 
because it reveals IBM secrets.
Cyert said he has only three concerns. I 
The ideas are sound in principle, he saidj 
but writing the software and making itj 
work remains to be proven. Second, Cyertl 
is concerned about the cost objectives he has [ 
set. Costs have come way down in thej 
past, he said, and we want to use the bestl 
we have. But there are some things we cant | 
predict.
Finally, Cyert said, Can we do it onj 
schedule?
Van Horn added, We are not committed! 
to handing out 7000 personal computers, so! 
if things dont go well we will make new| 
decisions. Branscomb added that there are| 
no catastrophic risks.
Asked of there were any health hazards,j 
such as radiation effects from CRT termi
nals, Branscomb said, The Occupational 
Health and Safety division of the govern
ment has concluded that there are no direct 
medical effects. If there is any psychological 
stress, the responsibility does not lie with thej 
ntCudCsyw tC igry 11'
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry l
have to come here.
Paula Franklin added, We cant come 
out against it because we dont know any
thing about it.
Lois Cox, associate dean of Student 
Affairs, said, Maybe the decision to bring 
computers here has already been made, but 
everything is not ironed out. Students 
should involve themselves now  the 
administration will listen.
Students are panicking, said Walter. 
Technology is moving rapidly and we 
cant anticipate it.
We want to make this a good university, 
and we have to trust the administration, he 
added. The decision to have computers on 
this campus in an intense way was never in 
the students hands.
Walter feels that, to Cyert, this develop
ment is just another blip in our longrange progress. If CMU doesnt move with 
the technology, were insane.
It was an unfortunate oversight that UPI 
in Britain knew about this before the stu
dents did, he added. The article in the 
October 18 Newsweek, which announced 
that students would be iequired to buy com
puters, is reason to be concerned, he said.
When these student objections were 
pointed out to Cyert at the press conference, 
he said, Its too bad they didnt make state
ments to the Task Force for the Future of 
Computing. There were student representa
tives' on it, and they never got any feedback.  
Many students feel that the TFFC didnt do 
anything, and no plans were being pro
posed at the time to be evaluated.
There were two student representatives on 
the TFFC, one undergraduate and one grad
uate. Both were employed by Computer 
Science. The task force had 16 members.
Students are involved in the tuition deci
sions each year, Cyert added, so they will
have input on this. The extra charge for the 
computers will probably be figured into the 
tuition directly, he said. We always 
announce our tuition increases well in 
advance, so students have the option to leave 
the university.
The students havent had a strong reac
tion on the computing issue, he added. 
Maybe its the Student Senate that is out of 
touch.
If the machines arent useful, added 
Van Horn, we arent going to say that stu
dents have to get them.
Cyert stated that future reports will be 
available to faculty and students so they 
know what is being planned, but that it is 
not the students place to be making these 
decisions.
Open seminars will be held in the future 
so that students can voice their views, he 
said.
No Obligation
CMU has not signed any agreement to 
buy machines from IBM, Cyert said. This 
is just an agreement to develop a system, he 
said. Van Horn added, We are under no 
obligation. If, after three years, we see some
thing at DEC we like better, well go with 
it.
Dr. Lewis Branscomb, chief scientist for 
IBM, said, This is the culmination of a 
variety of dreams. CMU has already had a 
beneficial impact on IBM. He added that 
CMU has developed some important inno
vations and conceptions of computing.
This is not a purchase agreement, he 
added. The contract obligates both sides to 
investigate the matter, but IBM will 
underwrite the costs of the research, which 
will be done on campus. In addition, IBM 
will furnish CMU with one large computer 
and small systems, on which IBM will do its 
research. IBM will not take away any of the 
Computation Centers resources, Van

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 7
52% say computers are a positive step for CMU
By LOUISE CROCOLL
Tartan Staffwriter
In response to the recent action to imple
ment personal computers onto campus, 52% 
of a CMU sample population felt the prop
osal to be a positive step for the University to 
take.
The 36 students who 
responded, represent undergrad
uates and graduates in CFA, 
C3T, MGS and H&SS/AMS.
Some positive responses from MCS and 
CFA students included reserrations about 
the practicality of mandatory personal com
puters for students in CFA, H&SS and AMS. 
These students felt that the importance of 
computer work to arts and humanities was 
not justified by the cost.
Respondents defending computer use in 
CFA cited the value of Computer Aided 
Design (CAD) and Computer Aided Manu
facturing (CAM) in the fields of architecture 
ind design.
There was strong feeling that those in 
CJT/MCS would benefit gready from the 
proposal. One graduate student in MCS 
aid, Only those that need the full power of 
these proposed personal computers will be 
getting what they pay for.
One student in CUT listed uses for the 
personal computer from sending and receivng mail, handing in homework and using 
ibrary resources, all at ones leisure, to havng conferences and reading daily elecronic TARTAN. Computer aided 
nstruction (CAI), another student stated, 
would be of universal utility.
Supporters of the issue cited the fact that 
nuch original software must be written in 
Drder for the personal computer to serve all 
ureas of the University. The majority of 
lose polled sees that the issue is valuable for
its potential, although few understand what 
that potential will be.
Varied dissatisfactions with the proposal 
are more prevalent in student opinion des
pite the agreeable majority.
A number of students feel that the admin
istration is not looking into the issue ade
quately and that it is motivated by the future 
prestige and publicity it would receive for 
the University. Meanwhile, another group 
of students feels that if there would be conve
nient accessibility to more terminals, the 
extra unnecessary cost above tuition to buy a 
terminal would be alleviated.
One junior in design commented, With 
the social problem here on campus, having 
personal computers will contribute to stu
dent separation. A sophomore in applied 
mathematics fears that her questions, which 
would normally be answered by other 
hackers in a terminal room, would go 
unanswered if she were alone in her room 
with the computer.
The practicality of maintaining the same 
terminal for four years is challenged by a 
student in MCS, I think the students will be 
stuck with an outmoded machine almost 
from the day they buy it; it will certainly be 
so by the time they graduate.
After describing the possibility of mass 
computer theft, one student questioned 
whether most students will fully realize the 
cost and delicacy of the machines.
Observations of the survey data show that 
out of ten MCS respondents, three agreed 
and seven disagreed. Both CIT and 
H&SS/AMS had eight respondents; each 
had three who disagreed. CTI had five agree
ing answers while H&SS had four and one 
undecided.
A sample of student opinion follows. 
Kathleen Romanik, sophomore, Applied
Math: I think Dr. Cyerts computer program 
is unfair and stupid, to put it blundy. First 
of all, its unfair to require every student to 
purchase a personal computer whether he 
wants one or not. My roommate, who is a 
sophomore voice major, has never used a 
computer, and probably never will. Why 
should she, or other students like her, be 
required to spend $3000 on something for 
which she has no use?
Also, although I am an applied math 
major, a personal computer in my room 
will not help me. Whenever I am hacking 
I always have questions which can only be 
answered by other hackers, and if Im alone
in my room, who will be there to answer 
them? I think it would be all right if the 
university gave students the option of buy
ing a personal computer for their room, but 
it is unfair to for^e us to do something with
out our consent.
Jeff Miller, sophomore, Mech E: Could 
Cyert be using the personal computers as a 
way to thin out, or get rid of completely, the 
fine arts department?
Neal Friedman, junior, EE: While us 
hackers may object to mere mortals (fine arts 
students) interfering with our work, some 
professors in fine arts and design cant wait 
ntCudCsyw tC igry ll
photo by Brian Yen
IBM displays a sample of what students may see in their rooms in four years.
Attention CMU Faculty/Staff/Students
FALL FREEROLL PRACTICES FOR BUGGY 
WILL COMMENCE THIS SUNDAY, OCTOBER 
31 FROM 6:30 AM TO 9:00 AM. TECH ST., FREW 
ST., AND SCHENLEY DR. WILL BE USED 
DURING THESE HOURS. FREEROLLS WILL 
CONTINUE ON SUNDAYS NOVEMBER 7,14,21 
DURING THE SAME TIME. YOUR PATIENCE 
AND COOPERATION WILL BE EXTREMELY 
APPRECIATED. THANK YOU.
SWEEPSTAKES COMMITTEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 26, 1982
What the future will bring to CMU: a student's experience
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry O
her own name correctly and moving it 
around the screen at the same time. Her 
friend Effem Inate, a Drama student, used 
the computer as a prompter for learning his 
lines from Oedipus the King; he had the 
leading role. Unfortunately, he was so dedi
cated to his part that he developed psycho
logical problems from sitting at a terminal 
too long and was put away for destroying one 
terminal and trying to make love to another. 
Years ago, University officials had forseen 
possible psychological problems occuring 
in students stemming from extended time 
spent at a computer terminal, but had 
decided that such was the price of progress.
Another friend of hers, Herbert Repug
nant, a student who had political views 
counter to that of the current political tide, 
was arrested after his computer files were 
seized by the FBI and were used to indict 
him for un-American activities. He now 
makes license plates in the federal peniten
tiary. Its now so easy to control these sub
versives, since all the major universities are 
connected into the same data bank. I now 
can get any information necessary about any 
student I want by going to the university 
nearest me and finding someone who will 
cooperate, the arresting officer noted with a 
grunt.
Suzy reads her next and final note, which 
is from one of her professors who she had 
never met because personal contact between 
faculty and students is now outdated. They 
only communicate by terminals. She sus
pects that he is the skinny man she saw in 
the lunchroom Vho looks like a white rat 
and paints soup cans. Youre work has 
been far below par this semester. If you dont 
have your graphics assignment given to me 
in an hour, Ill flunk you. This is a predica
ment. If she doesnt pass this class, she will 
fail out of school and there isnt time to do it 
by hand, even if she remembers how to 
create art the old way.
Well, Im not worried, she mutters with 
a little sob. I was going to have to drop out
The Mannes College 
of Music
157 East 74 Street, New York, N.Y. 10021 (212) 737-0700
MAJOR FIELDS OF STUDY
Ensembles in Residence The New York Philharmonic Wind Quintet The Dorian Wind Quintet The Galimir String Quartet
Special Guest Ensemble The Empire Brass Quintet
PIANO
Edward Aldwell 
Arkady Aronov 
David Bar-IUan 
Claud Frank 
Richard Goode 
Jeannette Haien 
Eugenia Hyman 
Lilian Kallir 
Edith Oppens 
Marie Powers 
Josef Raieff 
Nadia Reisenberg 
Peter Serkin 
Nina Svetlanova 
Mildred Waldman 
Diane Walsh
HARPSICHORD
Kenneth Cooper 
Eugenia Earle
ORGAN and CHURCH MUSIC
Ford Lallerstedt 
William Whitehead
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
Nina Beilina. Violin
Raphael Bronstein, Violin and Viola
Isidore Cohen, Violin
Felix Galimir, Violin
Shirley Givens, Violin
Ani Kavafian, Violins
Young Uck Kim, Violin
Sally Thomas, Violin
Paul Doktor, Viola and Violin
John Graham, Viola
Sol Greitzer, Viola
Karen Tuttle, Viola
Claus Adam, Violoncello
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello
Jean SchneideT Goberman, Violoncello
Yo Yo Ma, Violoncello
Paul Tobias, Violoncello
Julius Levine, Double Bass
Homer Mensch, Double Bass
WOODWIND and BRASS
Karl Kraber, Flute
Andrew Loiya, Flute
John Wion, Flute
Elaine Douvas, Oboe
Albert Goitzer, Oboe
Ronald Roseman, Oboe
Gerva*e de Peyer, Clarinet
David Glazer, Clarinet
Peter Simenauer, Clarinet
Burt Bial, Bassoon and Contrabassoon
Harold Goitzer, Bassoon
Leonard Hindell, Bassoon 
Judith LeClair, Bassoon 
Allen Won, Saxophone 
Antonio lervolino, French Horn 
Ranier Delntinis, French Horn 
Philip Myers, French Horn 
Mel Broiles, Trumpet 
James Smith, Trumpet 
William Vacchiano, Trumpet 
John Ware, Trumpet 
Per Brevig, Trombone 
Gilbert Cohen, Trombone and 
Bass Trombone 
Donald Harwood, Bass Trombone 
Warren Deck, Tuba
TYMPANI and PERCUSSION
Norman Grossman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Walter Rosenberger
HARP
Lucile Lawrence
CLASSICAL GUITAR
Leonid Bolotme 
Roslyn Dlugin 
Eliot Fisk 
Frederic Hand 
Herbert Levine 
Michael Newman 
Robert Secrist 
Albert Valdes-Blam
VOICE
Charles Bressler 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elkus 
Ellen Faull 
Jane Gunter 
Antonia Lavanne 
Dan Marek 
Jan Peerce 
Judith Raskin 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
ORCHESTRA and ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTING
Sidney Harth, Music Director
CHORUS and CHORAL CONDUCTING
Amy Kaiser, Music Director
MANNES OPERA THEATER 
EARLY MUSIC PROGRAM 
COMPOSITION 
THEORY PROGRAM
Scholarships are available. B.M., B.S., M.M., Diploma, Post-Grad nate Diploma.
Cai or write: Diaee Newmaa, Director of Adarisstoas, The Mannes 
College of Mask, 157 East 74 St., New York, N.Y. 1M21, (212) 737-0700.
of CMU anyway, since I wasnt given 
enough financial aid for next year. But I 
guess somebody has to pay for all those 
terminals and expanded facilities that CMU 
has. The contract with IBM only underw
rote the development of it. Im happy to 
make the sacrifice so that other young pro
fessionals can have their own computers. 
Yet her own words are unconvincing and 
her brow creases for a moment as she 
remembers how she had read that admission 
to CMU was declining. The reason given by 
prospective students was that they were 
forced to buy the computers they really 
didnt want to use and couldnt afford the 
high priced university anyway.
Suzy begins to cry as the implications of 
her situation dawn on her. She will have to
become a starving artist who has nothing 
with which to create her art. I hate compu
ters! I wish I never had one. It hasnt solved 
my problems for me, she blubbers mourn
fully. But she is wrong again, for her streams 
of tears drip into the computer terminal, 
touching a loose wire that sends thousands 
of volts of electricity slamming though her 
convulsed body, instantly electrocuting her 
and solving her problems forever.
The rest of Suzy Hacknurds day isnt 
much to talk about, but thats okay as long 
as you get the basic crux of the plan that will 
bring the plaudits of the mechanized world 
to our fair school and with cause CMU to 
rule uber alles.
Chris Johnston is a sophomore in creative 
writing and is a columnist for The Tartan.
The politicians and art.
h sL.'.y
By Ralph M. Sherman
I am an artist. I am creativity. I am the 
mind, the rational, the reasoning. I form the 
substances of nature and laboratory into the 
shapes I desire. My imagination is the cruci
ble, red hot, searing into any raw 
material, burning away any 
excess, going to the essential 
core, and crafting it as I see fit.
There is nothing else, no cooperation 
with the mindless, the non-creative. There is 
no compromising, no subsidizing the unin
telligent with my intelligence, the unable 
with my ability. I strive for the heightSj 
alone, unencumbered, free. Art is not a 
group decision, a committee, not welfare for 
the unfortunate. Art is the single soul soar
ing, the completion of my commands.
I am the height, the pinnacle, stealing 
from none, demanding nothing, giving 
nothing trading for ability from ability, 
inspiring and inspired by talent. I am the 
striving, the trying, the achieving. Impuri
ties are unacceptable in my materials and in 
my mind  I could no more accept a com
promise in my creations than in my tools. I 
am the greatness, the light, the spark and the 
flame, the all; I am an artist.
We are the compromisers, the unable. We 
are not artists but we demand that our 
inability be subsidized by your capability. 
Our need is a debt you must pay. We cannot 
create, we can ony manipulate. You are our 
tool: through pull and power we will work 
our way upon your soul.
From the top of your lofty summit we 
know we cannot conquer, we will pull you 
down. If we cannot surmount thte summit, 
then we shall dynamite the mountain; then, 
there shall be no heights above us for you to 
mock us from, no precipice upon which to 
parade your principles. We shall have par
ity, you the artist and we the non-creative.
You must accept the unable and the noncreative; for we are people too, we are 
society, we are the unending demands and 
the never-met need you must feed. You pro
duce for us, you exist for us. We shall soften 
your edges, shade your glare, and you shall 
serve us. We are the special-interests, the 
pullers of strings, the champions of 
compromise.
From the New York Times, Washing
ton, Oct. 13The Federal Fine Arts Com
mission today approved two controversial 
additions to the Vietnam Veterans Memor
ial now nearing completion on the mall. 
The additions are an eight-foot-high statue 
realistically depicting three haggard Ameri
can fighting men and a 50-foot flagpole ... 
Many veterans of the war in Vietnam urged 
approval of the statue and the flagpole . .. 
the veterans insisted that the statue and the 
flagpole ought to be added in the spirit of 
compromise ...
From the Washington Post, quoting J. 
Carter Brown, Chairman of the Federal Fine 
Arts Commission, It would have been far 
easier to say that, since the addition of any
thing would change the original competi
tion, and the results that came from it, we 
will disapprove them without looking at a 
single submission.
Ralph M. Sherman is a senior in political 
science and history and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.
A complaint I
Editor:
Who unlocked Andy Stahls cage this 
year?
Love,
A bored with the Bull Sophomore 
Name withheld upon request
CLASS OF 1983
As your thoughts turn to leaving CMU....
....Turn your thoughts to leaving future CMU students a gift from
your class.
The Senior Class Gift is given each year by Seniors to the CMU Students who 
follow them. This is your chance to improve the campus for the benefit of the next 
generation of CMU Students.
Send in the coupon below indicating your choice for this years gift, or suggest one 
of your own ideas.
___________A free-standing campus clock  centrally located with benches around
the base.
___________A paved walkway by the tennis courts. J
___________A small landscaping project with a patio and seating by the bike racks
overlooking the tennis courts.
_________A piece of sculpture or artwork placed somewhere on campus.
Other__________________________________________________________
Send through campus mail to:
Jana Caras
Senior Class Gift Chairman 
Donner Box 887

---------------------------------------------------

VIA SATELLITE
Theres Never Been Anything Like TODAY 
On Campus!
USA TODAY, the nation's first 
general interest national daily 
newspaper, is perfect for today's 
student. Delivery to your dorm is 
now available at a special educa
tional rate of 75< per week only 
15$ per copy 40% less than the 
newsstand price of 25$. You'll find 
USA TODAY exciting, easy to 
read
and a great help in and out of the 
classroom.
Li#. Featured daily, Life will spotlight trends before they become headlines ... capture the lifestyles 
and personalities of the people who are making news.
Money. The money section will bring students timely news of business and finance, and a daily look at 
the nation's economy.
Sports. This comprehensive 12-page sport section is a model of sports reporting. You'll get the full story 
on professional, college, high school and amateur events, plus a complete round-up of results from 
every state.
Main News. Every weekday morning, USA TODAY gives you an immediate overview of what 
Americans everywhere are thinking and doing. And best of all, you can stay in touch with your home 
state by reading "Across the USA" with important happenings reported state by state.
To Order USA TODAY delivered 
to your dorm or home 
contact.
Thomas M. Koehler 
Room E711 
1060 Morewood Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
SPECIAL OFFER 
FOR STUDENTS 
OFF CAMPUS!!!
CALL TODAY:
578-3985
578-5985
Compus Representative

---------------------------------------------------

What: 1 st Annual AB A IR 
Band Competition
When: Saturday, November 13,8 p.m. 
Where: Skibo Ballroom
Who:
Why:
* #! si *'Mi J a i isJ i K i '
Entries taken in Skibo Grey Matter on Friday, Nov.5 from 
Noon  5 p.m. A $10 deposit required for your entry  
refunded at performance.
For rules and regulations, see the article in this paper or 
pick up a copy at the Skibo Information Desk.
Sponsored by AB Coffeehouse and AB lectures.
Funded by anudjdudyW yyHosted by A. Whitney Brown 
noted club entertainer 
and comedian
Prizes!
s-?rsn; tr *i f'-i* Mo.i Ifrw^rifw*1st Place $150 
2nd Place 
3rd Place

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 11
iWtCn dsh mds IgCs hawpeww pgryentC htdu
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry e
technology.
Branscomb does not know if this system 
will result in higher competition with DEC. 
This is something new, and I hope it will 
improve IBMs commercial offerings, he 
said. Cyert added that the goal of the project 
is innovation for higher education.
The Next Two Years 
Van Horn stated that the contract offers 
the opportunity to purchase 40 work sta
tions at a special price. These computers 
would probably be installed next year to 
begin the transition. I think well certainly 
buy them, he said.
Some of these will be placed in the public 
terminal rooms, and others will be given to 
faculty members who want to develop edu
cational software. Some IBM personal com
puters have already been distributed to 
faculty, he said.
Next year about 200 new computers may 
be installed on campus. We arent sure 
yet, Van Horn said. This decision will be 
made within the next six months, he added.
By 1984, Van Horn hopes to have the 
public terminals replaced with personal 
computers. This will be decided early in 
1984. The decision whether to install a com
puter for every student will not be made 
before the fall of 1984, and will probably 
occur in the fall of 1985, he said. Dick 
(Cyert) might be a little too ambitious/ he 
added. I dont think this will happen as 
early as he does.
He believes this will work, Van Horn 
said, and that universities should be in the 
forefront of computing. But hes an intelli
gent man he will hold up if it looks like it
isnt going to work.
What About the Students?
Asked if there would be a negative effect 
on student services and tuition, Cyert said, I 
think we can do it. Van Horn added that 
tuition wont take a sudden jump of $750 
per year. He said that in reality, student 
costs would probably only go up a couple 
hundred dollars more than the current 
increases.
On Sunday, October 17, United Press 
International reported that students would 
be required to buy the machines for $3000. 
Cyert said Wednesday that this is a real 
possibility, but no decision has been made. 
Thats what Im hoping for, he said.
The earliest this could happen is 1986, 
Van Horn said. Research will be done to 
determine the best arrangements, and Van 
Houweling currendy has sketches of possi
ble modifications to dorm rooms. Well try 
both rooms and clusters, Van Horn said, 
and see which works better.
Current students will not have to finance 
the development, Van Horn said. The 
money will come from the university capital 
fund. I dont expect current students to pay 
if theyre never going to use them, he said.
When the computers are installed in 1986, 
the charge will probably be added to eve
ryones tuition, Van Horn said. However, 
only freshmen will be getting the personal 
computers. "The upperclassmen get com
puting in a different way, he said. "Its not 
dear the freshmen will be getting that much 
more. If they want them, however, there 
will be provisions for upperclassmen to buy 
personal computers.
It is about 90% likely that students will be 
required to buy the computers, Van Horn 
said. Cyert added, I hope every student has
one, and by the year 2000 every one will want 
and need one. It is one way to make life-long 
learning a reality.
We have generated enough interest, 
Van Horn said. Other schools are now 
requiring personal computers. We were 
first, but we may actually be the last to 
install them because we are being careful to 
work out the details. He added, Student 
urne is very valuable, and we want them to 
do as much as possible, If they end up using 
their own time more effectively, it will be a 
truly magnificent accomplishment.
I expect that by 1986, students will be 
concerned that they wont be among the first 
to get the computers, Van Horn said.
Who Will Use Them and How?
A lot of uses of computing are already 
well defined, Van Horn said. In addition 
to class work, students can use them to send 
mail to each other and their professors, and 
even the administration. Text processing 
has always been a big thing. They can access
the library, develop problem solving skills, 
and even use them in fine arts.
Cyert added that with computers, more 
realistic problems could be assigned because 
the students wouldnt have to do all the 
work themselves. We wont have to be arti
ficial now, he said.
Branscomb added, A lot of engineering 
cant be done any other way.
Van Horn said that it is possible that now 
all students will be required to have compu
ters. If we find that CFA really doesnt have 
any use for them, we wont expect them to 
buy them. Of course, they will always be 
available to anyone who wants to buy one 
anyway.
Van Horn said that students who dont 
get computers will still pay the same tuition 
as everyone else, however. After all, we do 
other things for them that are just as expen
sive. For example, CFA has a $200,000 light
ing system.
No student pays the full cost of his eduntCudCsyw tC igry lO
Students split on issue
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry m
to bring CAD into the set design classes, 
animate in real-time, and teach music with a 
real hands-on computer solfege (CS is 
already co-operating with Music on that 
one). Originally, I objected on this point too, 
but after finding out what the system can be,
I think even the fine arts students can 
benefit.
Scott Safier, senior, Math/Psychology: In 
my opinion, all students had the opportun
ity to hear the plans of the university in 
forums which were set up. However, I also 
feel that the university has never proposed 
anything for debate. They have told us how
it was going to happen and did not respond 
to criticism. They have been secretive with 
their proposals throughout, with the most 
recent example being at the trustees meeting 
when the trustees discussed computing in 
EXECUTIVE Session with no students, nor 
dean of students, present to offer our side. 
We have had this thing railroaded through 
right in front of us.
Dave Touietzky, grad, comp sri: I think 
people feel they should dump on this pro
ject just because IBM and the universitys 
board of trustees didnt personally ask them 
for their opinion on it beforehand. Never 
ntCudCsyw tC igry le
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series
Dr. Daniel Koshland
Professor of Biochemistry at the University of California at Berkeley 
Member of the National Academy of Science
Topic: Chemistry As a Form of Behavior
Skibo Ballroom 
Monday, November 1, 1982 
4:00 PM
Speakers Committee
Fred Messing 
Mary Ann ONan 
Robert Coulam 
Denise DePasquale 
Akram Midani 
Orville Winsand 
Mel Bernstein 
Braden Walter
Monica Celbo 
Felicia Pratto 
Richard Connors 
Richard Young 
Allan Meitzer 
Keith Moore 
Roland Smith 
Susan VanHom

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 26, 1982Van Horn promises research on social impact
ntCudCsyw ?,tb iyry ll
cation, Van Horn said. Some just come 
closer than others.
Van Horn feels that H&SS students will 
get more out of the computers than enginrieers will. The H&SS students will develop 
the analytic skills that the engineers already 
have, he said. Without computers, they 
never would have been exposed to these 
skills.
Van Horn feels that the people with good 
analytic skills self-select into engineering 
and science, while those without developed 
skills apply to H&SS.
I dont think this will become a hacker 
community, he added., There is a belief 
among high school students that computers 
are only used for complex math, and we 
have to change that attitude. It may be 15 
years before high school students get a bal
anced view of what computers are.
Social Issues
Cyert and Van Horn are confident that 
the impact of computers on students social 
and personal lives will be positive.
This environment will be extremely 
helpful, Van Horn said. There will be an 
on-going evaluation process, but studies in 
the past have indicated that the effect is a 
positive one.
Dr. Sara Kiesler, a professor in Social 
Science who may be involved with the 
research, said, No one really knows what 
the impact is. We dont even know all the 
issues. On one hand, she said, students can 
become isolated and develop only superfi
cial friendships, but on the other hand close 
ties can be developed between people who 
would not otherwise come in contact with
each other.
We are getting major funding to study 
the impact of these machines, Van Horn 
said. The univeristy will be looking for stu
dent volunteers for the study once some of 
the computrs are on campus, he said. These 
students may have computers in their 
rooms, and they will be evaluated to see 
what effects the conputers have, he said.
Van Horn doesnt see any problem with 
the method of gathering subjects. It will be 
somewhat self-selecting, he said, but that 
wont make the research less meaningful. 
Well get students from every college. Van 
Horn said he would be nervous about 
random selection.
According to Van Horn, CMU 
researchers will be doing the study.
[i,dCr Hg,CdjgA
Plans being made now for annual event
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Amusement park rides dont only belong 
in amusement paries. They also belong on 
the Skibo parking lot. This spring, as in 
springs past, the rides will themselves come 
to the CMU campus. The event is Spring 
Carnival, in which students enjoy Friday 
and Saturday in a festive atmosphere, com
plete with various games, rides, events and 
booths.
The Carnival kicks off with an opening 
ceremony and a famous speaker. In past 
years the themes New York City, The 
Wild West, and Lure of the Sea have tied
r
Computer Science 
& Electrical Engineering 
Majors ...
ROLM, with locations in the San Francisco Bay 
Area and Austin, Texas, seeks talented individuals 
interested in:
SOFTWARE
G PygA21dby HtbisudCr
G dWu,d)suyw [cWuybW
G |iy,gudCr [cWuybW
G gug LgWy gCgrybyCu [cWuybW 
GGgug HtbbsCdngudtCW
G dgrCtWudnW
G IAynu,tCdn gdA
G [t?uSg,y 1ttAW HtbidAy,W' y)srry,W' yunG 1yWu ICrdCyy,dCr
G [siit,u ICrdCyy,dCr
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969, has experienced a 
growth rate exceeding 70% a year and currently has more 
than 5200 employees. P| is the leading independent 
supplier of computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems and has been a pioneer in devel
oping computers which operate successfully in severe 
environments.
Included in ROLM's outstanding benefits package are:
G MdrpAc ntbiyududjy )gWy WgAg,dyWG :,t?du Wpg,dCr gCw Wutn( is,npgWy iAgCWG Htbi,ypyCWdjy pygAup' wyCugA gCw Ad?y dCWs,gCny 
i,tr,gbWG 1p,yy btCup igdw Wg))gudngA g?uy, WdD cyg,WG 1sdudtC ,ydb)s,WybyCu ?t, r,gwsguy Wuswc gu AygwdCr 
sCdjy,WdudyWG a ,yn,ygudtC nyCuy, sCWs,igWWyw dC duW ?gndAdudyW gCw 
gjgdAg)Ay i,tr,gbWOn Campus Interviews
Thursday, Oct. 28, Friday, Oct. 29.
yyu Sdup ts, Wt?uSg,y yCrdCyy, ?,tb P| dC 
upy :AgnybyCu HyCuy,- [yy ts, HtbigCc Aduy,g!
us,y dC upy :AgnybyCu HyCuy,-
If unable to attend an interview, send resume to:
Tim Dorman, Corporate Employment Manager, ROLM 
Corporation. 4900 Old Ironsides Drive, M/S 105, Santa 
Clara, CA 95050. We are an equal opportunity/affirmative 
action employer.
CORPORATION
the carnival events and games together. All 
the games are totally operated by students. 
After paying a fee, individual organizations 
set up their own booths.
The Spring Carnival committee hopes to 
sponsor some events themselves again this 
year; in the past they have sponsored a clam
bake and a very large banana split. A ride 
company is hired to set up the rides, which 
have included the Enterprise, a ferris 
wheel and many other familiar rides. There 
have never been any roller coaster rides, 
however, because of limited space. Usually 
coinciding with Spring Carnival are the 
famous Buggy Races.
The Spring Carnival, while pardy the 
responsibility of Student Activities, is 
appropriated money separately by the Student Senate. An executive committee, com
posed of ten students plus the chairman, 
Peter Levin, plans and runs the Carnival. 
Im really excited about the committee and 
the plans, commented Levin.
This year Levin hopes to spur more inter
est in the opening ceremony and to bring in 
a local dignitary or Hollywood star. Levin 
would also like to make improvements on 
the carnival entranceway. The ride com
pany may also be changed.
The response to the call for helping hands 
has been encouraging. The phone has 
been ringing a lot, said Levin. Come 
spring even more hands will be needed.
Ideas and hands are welcome. Com
mented Levin, its the many litde things 
that can make the Carnival special.
ill* pullve ditti Jleaxn
up,tsrp [c,gnsWy "Cdjy,WducfW Wuswc g),tgw i,tr,gbWStudy in one of SU's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain and other locations. Grants 
are available for a semester, a year, or a summer of foreign 
study. Want to learn more? Complete and return this ad to 
Michael Calo, Division of International Programs Abroad,
335 Comstock Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13210. (315) 423-3471.
Name,
Address.
City.. State..Zip.
Program of interest
$$ ENGINEERING STUDENTS $$
The Air Force's College Senior 
Engineer Program (CSEP) will assist 
you financially during the last year 
of undergraduate or graduate studies.
The CSEP program allows you to 
join the Air Force while still in 
school and receive more than $900 
per month in pay and allowances plus 
full Air Force benefits. After you 
graduate and complete Officer Train
ing School, you'll receive a commis
sion as an Air Force Engineering 
Officer.
For more information, contact 
Sgt. Bob Winterhalter at 644-2705.
All freshman and sophomore engin
eering students and juniors planning 
a graduate program should see the 
AFR0TC Professor of Aerospace 
Studies or contact the AFR0TC r f 
Admissions Counselor, Major 
Stanger at 624-6038.
___________SStov
L
19OSIG0S;

---------------------------------------------------

Ropit c
'io..; Grov-Cty -JdAAdgbWi
Du Bois
lersey Sfcre
A.. . V rLock Havens*>'DR. CYRIL WECHTDEMOCRATIC CADIDATE
E h , lyndura @ OUtlef
. E ,st 
i Brad1Be:htehemClearfield
,o|- - A ft M S. ? r V.N 
Punxsutawneyr.iTie7 . - ' M.fVln
REPUBLICAN REPRESENTATIVE JOHN HEINZ' CAMPA GN
Kittanning
fora ity/u ;; Cpaoftj' - _ /bas ;>nore V ,
Brii^e.-i,>Klge
Bd'nesbc'c
rr
-Tyrone
Por! - State  .Ni-:-. ? College
Vd*eb!
T-Mc^U
''teerhburgLIANE NORMANCONSUMER CANDIDATEArnold. Tdrenium V,dnaer6f!V > 'Apolloi-.fc'1.: H E N Y _ . *l tw Kenjington'3. A Jalon __ j.,)a <j.OakmotySi%,-ffi?bhurghte*giB/addock
Me Int, 
Clune
s*y
1 -.Sa.isLiurgHon 1er, Coiai City!*,/ . Rofks
o f""'"M.tf......
Slick 3 ville ExportOr
O Black f ,r.h
cBlairsville *,,(Jale
Ciwr A .< B I Alt r Kr-, . c_ '' sEbens-JM*nty brg : Glo i j
, 'UDuqprKl PP
SOCIALIST CANDIDATE
o Bellwood t.A eB"(iri<* , P**ter.bo#gGree -wocd 7'~ n ! .S-.y> Mc v*yiow& Huntifigdoif --Williams Holhdaysburg brgUW.IO k - .
Lew,,0 
. town ,
C.fl
TaAuttCg-lakeniorit
~ Po't Ro/Jl v
Nmipofl0
. ' N*w, BlOMlf;elJ
' Char0' %^ouoai*entervill  p0ft*opoli5 v*rvon0MS Cal,forma 0v.^,b..i '>. e . ?Brownsvilles-fc^n*. OSmock
ef ^ Republic DunbarO isabeHa0 NtWc F A Y E T T E10 i11*'" Uniontown
' V, ConMllsvillt
Casselman^
'C^'0y4,U",, Central  'r*n,0 City O,-'K*"
 "Sh ... ' f*d,#,d_  Shjiiksvtie OSommet <*. . M....
s SUUUL* E T .........:...............oRockwood  ^ K D r \jR#rlin ^
Everett
^/-wuwl A /McConoelIsburg
*0 ' ^"hdc 1 Ko.u#, Ml Holly SpnnfsS
W-------- C0.,W-, t,2-= 1 //'*' Shippensburg r*
F R A K K L IS o*,**...3CaWef$eft@ B.gterv.ll.
BARBARA KARKUTTLIBERATARIAN
E Masonlown T
'3'cLn0ltWoo mSm4hl^d^Point Manon - *" *<w,JLU____2________________Manueynw.o ^__o__UfgO
7*1" .xrJl
Gtrittl0 
Meyersdale Z * *" Do"
SprintsTSalisbury
Frost burgCumberland
FULTON i  
Merce(^burgG
 ir-llrv.l
Mont AUo 
Greene asile
i *A D A MHew CMf MthtrkiMe She
HdlKOCk  4 MOWue
WEDNESDAY,O C T O B E R
SKI BO NOONBALL R O OM
Ul
a
MODERATED BY PROFESSORTHOMAS M. KERR
ESQUIRE G S IA
SPONSORER BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 26, 1982
Students named to board
Dorm discipline board gets two new members
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffurriter
After weeks of interviewing candidates, 
the Student Dormitory Council and the 
Housing Office have announced the two 
new members of the Residence Hall Judi
cial Board.
The two new members, Dan Smith and 
George Salem, will join Carolyn Woemer, 
Randy Da Canal, Rick Samuelson, and Bob 
Aarhus, who are returning to sit on the 
Board. All together, the three members of the 
specially appointed search committee 
interviewed fifteen people for the two 
positions.
To ensure continuity in the program, 
now in its second year, the SDC and Jerry 
Marks, Assitant Director of Housing, 
decided to have two sophomores, two jun
iors, and two seniors on the Board each year, 
with only the two sophmores being newly 
chosen each year. There will be no fresh
men. I feel they do not have enough expe
rience to determine behavior, explained 
Marks.
 So far this year the Judicial Board has had 
two cases, which were handled by the return
ing members. In the meantime, sophomores 
Smith and Salem are undergoing a training 
period for their new positions. They will 
leam the procedures for questioning and 
how to weigh circumstantial evidence, a dif
ficult part of the job. When they hear two 
contradictory stories it is difficult for the 
people on the Judicial Board to believe peo
ple will lie, commented Marks.
The Residence Hall Judicial Board is a 
fact-finding group whose job is to decide 
responsibility in disciplinary cases concern
ing the Residence Halls, and to fill in the 
background for the cases. They give their 
results and their recommendation to Jerry 
Marks, who decides what action will be 
taken. These actions range from verbal and 
written warnings to fines to loss of student 
residency. Altogether there are eight differ
ent charges that can be given in any 
combination.
The disciplinary process usually starts 
with the RA, who submits to Jem Marks a 
Disciplinary Report Form describing and 
commenting on the complaint and the 
accused. The campus police also submit 
similar forms for other cases. A letter is sent 
to the student, who comes in for an appoint
ment and is told what is happening.
Most of the times they will then either 
admit or deny, with valid evidence, the 
charge. Otherwise, they are sent a letter for
mally telling them the charge and their 
rights. They are also given a certain period 
of time with which they must get together 
their witnesses and evidence.
The student goes in front of the Judicial 
Board, which asks questions and hears the 
story, the witnesses and the evidence. The 
Board then sits and talks among themselves 
and votes. Bill Siseck, Head Resident of 
Morewood, is present throughout the ques
tioning and discussion to insure the rights 
of the students and the carrying out of all 
policies.
The Judicial Board then fills out a form 
deciding on the level of each charge, recom
mends what action(s) they feel should be
taken, and makes a list of the witnesses. The 
following day Jerry Marks receives all of this 
and decides on the action or actions to be 
taken.
After the decision has been made, the stu
dent has the right to appeal, if he feels he has 
been denied due process, and if there is new 
legitimate evidence, or if the action has 
resulted in a loss of student residency. 
Appeals, which must be approved by Tony 
Martin, Director of Housing, are sometimes 
.accepted for other reasons.
Student Affairs offers tutoring
The Fall tutoring program has been 
expanded from last spring.
Tutoring in Writing and English Com
position will be offered in addition to Phys
ics, Chemistry, Calculus and Math (H&SS), 
from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. on Monday, Tues
day, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings in 
Porter and Baker Halls.
The program is structured to provide
assistance to first year students in these sub
jects. As it continues, the program will be 
adjusted to the level of demand and use 
made of the tutors.
The Division of Student Affairs is again 
sponsoring the program and administering 
it through the Counseling and Student 
Development Center, Baker Hall 135, exten
sion 2922.
F rat performs for trustees
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffurriter
On Monday, October 18, the brothers and 
friends of Pi Lambda Phi treated the Board
of Trustees with a concert during their 
luncheon.
The fraternity performed selections of 
their CMU Songs from Greek Sing in 
1981 and 1982, written by Arthur Benjamin. 
They opened with Marriott, a spoof on 
food service sung to the tune of Camelot. 
This was followed by Trees, written to the 
tune of Love is Blue, and with their own 
rendition of All for the Best from 
Godspell.
The Pi Lams were directed by Donald 
Zimmerman, and accompanied by Eliza
beth Fox.
Food service
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry l
new recipes, and is open to suggestions.
Many other changes have been made or 
will be made soon, such as having No 
Smoking areas, better lighting in the Kiltie, 
opening the blinds in the Grill, fixing the 
ice cream machine in the Grill, and drain
ing the scrambled eggs.
The SDC Food Service committee would 
like student input, and will be having com
ment tables again in the future.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For g confidential friend call:
LIFEUNE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
GYN 
rCHECK-UPS
~ ABORTION 
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
UJomens 
Health 
Services
625 STANWDC ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 5621900

We AssureEngrneerrng Graduahes A Iennhh Take-Oii
The most critical time in yourcareer is now Cleveland Pneumatic 
can assure a smooth take-off for your entry into the world of
engineering.
We are the world's foremost designer and manufacturer of com
mercial and military aircraft landing gear systems. Our state-ofthe-art engineering techniques are matched only by the engi
neers we hire To develop your potential to the fullest we begin 
by placing every new graduate engineer in a hands-on training 
program You'll rotate through various engineering depart
ments gaming knowledge of the design and manufacture of a 
high strength, close tolerance, highly engineered mechanical 
structure
You II contribute to the production of landing gear every step of 
the way by working on projects such as the Boeing 767. the F 18 
and the B 1 B The emphasis at Cleveland Pneumatic is on diver
sity. not specialization.. and. as an employee in a medium-sized 
company your efforts will be recognized and your performance 
will be rewarded accordingly.
Our Engineering Representative will be on campus to talk about 
our career opportunities in the following areas:
 DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING TEST ENGINEERING PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
Your degree in Aeronautical Mechanical. Civil or Industrial 
Engineering could qualify you for a great engineering career 
The future is bright for us. and it can be for you with a
company that will offer your future a smooth take-off
If you d like to Know more about engineering opportunities at 
Cleveland Pneumatic, talk with our Recruitment Manager on 
Campus Friday December 3rd. or write Recruitment Manager. 
Cleveland Pneumatic Company. 3781 E. 77th Street. Cleveland. 
Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer M F H

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 15
Koshland lectures on chemistry, behavior
Daniel Koshland, distinguished bio
chemist from the University of California at 
Berkeley, will deliver the second lecture in 
the 1982-83 Presidents Distinguished Lec
ture Series on Monday, November 1 in the 
Skibo Ballroom at 4:00 p.m. In his lecture, 
Chemistry as a Form of Behavior, Kosh
land will discuss the interface of chemistry, 
biology and psychology.
Koshland has the ability of making scien
tific discoveries understandable and exciting 
to the non-scientist. An impressive list of 
honorary name lectureship at major univer
sities has been a major part of Koshlands 
distinguished career. In 1973, he won the 
Distinguished Lectureship Award from the 
Society of General Physiologists. Twice has 
was chosen as Phi Beta Kappa lecturer (in 
1974 and 1976) and in 1979 he gave the John 
Edsall lecture series at Harvard University.
Koshland has played a major role in the
development of our understanding of the 
biochemical basis of life. His contributions 
have encompassed the whole area of the 
molecular basis of enzymatic catalysis and 
its control and integration into complex bio
logical processes. He is now successfully 
applying this approach to a model behaviorial system. The experimental work 
which he has produced has been widely 
acknowledged, but his biggest impact has 
been the formulation and advocacy of new 
concepts at a fundamental level.
The author of at least 300 frequendy cited 
research papers in bio-chemistry, Koshland
has won the prestigious Edgar Fahr Smith 
Award and the Pauling Award from the 
American Chemical Society. As a member of 
the National Academy of Science, he has 
been influential in developing policy' on 
issues that pose'dilemmas between science 
and societal problems.
B'nai B'rith holds annual meeting
The Bnai Brith Hillel Foundation of 
Pittsburgh will share with the community 
at large its forthcoming Annual Meeting, 
Tuesday, November 2, at 8 p.m. in the J. 
Leonard Levy Hall of Rodef Shalom Con
gregation on the comer of Fifth and 
Mo re wood.
The featured speaker will be Rabbi Oscar 
Groner, International Director of Bnai 
Brith Hillel foundations in Washington, 
D.C. Groner is a recognized leader in American Jewish life, with many years of extensive 
experience in Jewish communal leadership 
and in the direction of National Hillel pro
grams. Groner will speak on Hillel in 
Transition and will reflect on the direc
tions of the Hillel movement on college 
campuses.
Past presidents of the Bnai Brith Hillel 
Foundation Board of Directors will be 
honored, and new Board members will be 
installed.
Irving Elbling is president of the Board of 
Directors of Pittsburgh Bnai Brith Hillel 
Foundation, and Rabbi Joseph H. Levine is 
the Director. Student leaders from various 
campuses will provide brief summary 
reports of Hillels progress in Pittsburgh 
area programming.
The Bnai Brith Hillel Foundation in 
Pittsburgh is a beneficiary of the United 
Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh.
University of California
|![B Lawrence Livermore 
L-A National Laboratory
CAMPUS
27thOCT.WD
Creative minds pursue a diversity of imaginative solutions.
University of California
I  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Jpy,y cts ngC isu cts, ugAyCuW ut St,( tC upy ?sus,yLLNL is an environment designed 
to produce solutionsa place where 
you can participate tully in the 
creation and exploration ot 
tomorrow's technology
We offer a wide range of areas in 
which you can succeed
In defense, we re providing 
leadership in the conception and 
design of America s defense 
capabilities
In laser and magnetic fusion, 
we re devising ways to harness 
nuclear energy
array of cultural, educational and 
recreational activities
Ask your Placement Office for 
details, or contact us for more 
information by forwarding your 
resume to
Beyond your involvement in 
exceptional projects you'll be able 
to enjoy Northern California's vast
IbiAtcbyCu djdWdtC' aJPIRHI 
BIP|PI Ra1|Ra aL|Pa1|PU: | LtD 88l4' yiu xHP' djy,bt,y' 
Ha 9h884
U S Citizenship is required 'An 
Equal Opportun fy Employer M F H V

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 26, 1982Students have strong feelings on computers
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry ll
mind the fact that the universitys intentions 
have been common knowledge for at least a 
year, and anyone with serious concerns 
could have sought out someone on the com
mittee to speak with about them. Well, the 
folks running this show HAVE been a litde 
slow in releasing the technical details. The 
least Cyert could have done was rush over to 
Science Hall to brief all the hackers person
ally before the news releases went out, huh?
Malcolm McRoberts, senior, Math: I 
dont think that the system will be easy 
enough to use such that people who dont 
need it much anyway will be dumb enough 
to spend the time to leam how to use it. I 
mean what good will a pc do the average 
French hom major? Sure he can read his 
mail but who is going to force him to leam 
how to log in?
Also, when the library is hooked into the 
system we will be able to scan the disk
Conferencesuccessful
Approximately 1200 to 1500 students 
attended the Technical Oppurtunities Con
ference (T.O.C.) on Thursday, October 14. 
The Conference was joindy sponsored by 
the Society of Women Engineers and the 
IEEE Student Chapter.
Hewlett Packard gave away two HP-41C 
Calculators; The winners were Mark Nicolussi and Bill Toman. SWE Coordinator 
Tamara Gricus and IEEE Coordinator 
Kevin Weaver thank the corporations who 
participated and our students for attending 
this well received opportunities conference.
catalog for books, and possibly even read 
them. We could also get online newspapers, 
etc. It would be great for groups of people... 
they could send mail to each other, have 
bboards, and have conference links.
Now for using them as actual personal 
computers. Being able to edit papers on 
your own computer is great, no load at all. 
As long as we have a very reliable laser prin
ter, the typewriter would become obsolete in 
minutes. EVERYONE could use this  
even artists.
I really think that someday everyone will 
NEED to use the computer but by that time 
they will be much easier to use. I also think 
since this is sort of an educational experi
ment that we should try' to get someone else 
to foot the bill. Certainly other schools will 
benefit from our mistakes (for free!). Why 
shouldnt someone in the public sector con
tribute? I guess my major complaint is that 
the goal of this purchase is NOT to enhance 
undergraduate education (the administra
tion never has given a heck about us) but to 
glorify the school and get into the newspap
ers and history books. Then again someone 
has to do it why not us? I think I may be 
proud someday that my school was the first 
to get wired.
Mark Lottor, sophomore, Applied Math: 
I think its great! Immediate uses I can see 
for it, are just using it as an intelligent termi
nal to connect to a main computer system. 
This is great for sending mail and word 
processing and can be used by every student, 
no matter what their major is. Also it would 
be great for handing in homework, getting 
it back, possibly taking tests, receiving notes 
and handouts from teachers, or having 
access to a database of notes, etc.
Halloween Thriller
Oct. 31
Andy Warhol's 
X-rated
Frankenstein
Doherty Hall 2210 
6,8,10 and 12 pm 
admission $1.00
Funded by activities fee
photo by Rhoda Funk
The Core opened for The Clash on October 16. The concert was a sellout
Fairless lecture
Rothchild speaks on France
Baron Guy de Rothchild will deliver the 
1982 Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lecture 
at 5 p.m. Thursday, November 18, in the 
Ballroom of Skibo Hall. Rothschild will 
discuss The Relationship Between Busi
ness and Government in France.
Rothschild is the head of Rothschild 
Incoporated of New York, and an interna
tional array of business interests, including 
the Banque de Rothschild in Paris.
The Fairless Lectures were established in 
1963 in memory of Benjamin F. Fairless. 
Held under the auspices of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, the
annual lecture series concentrates on an 
aspect of business, the economy, labor or 
management relations.
Fairless was president of United States 
Steel Corporation for 15 years and was chair
man of the board for three years until his 
retirement in 1955. Fairless was a member of 
Camegie-Mellons Board of Tmstees for 10 
years from 1952 until his death in 1962.
Tickets to the lecture are free and may be 
obtained by writing to the Fairless Lecture 
c/o Public Relations, 160 Baker Hall, 
Camegie-Mellon University, Schenley 
Park, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.Mr. Stahl should keep his thoughts to himself
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry h
Reds wont need any new strategies to attack 
us. In wartime, killing is killing whether it 
be men or women.
I began this letter saying my hope was 
that your opinion article was a joke. How
ever, that is not even a valid excuse for the 
atrocities which you put forth. One cant 
begin to understand the traumatic expe
rience erf fighting in a war and your ignorant comments only show your 
inconsideration of the entire topic. Any reas
onable person would have had sense
enough to keep an article like that to himself 
and not put it in a column where others are 
trying to make valid and sensible issues. I 
am sorry that I ever came across your article, 
but I am more sorry thatit was written in the 
first placebe it joke or otherwise. If it is 
otherwise, then Mr. Stahl it is time for you to 
bring your mind out of the recess where it 
lays and leam what it is to think realistically, 
like the majority of 20th century America.
John Kmetz 
Sophomore MEMS
Bill Bentley 
Sophomore MCS
The finest collection of Antique 
Clothing From 1890-1950.
FOR LADIES & GENTSVINTAGE CLOTHIER
NONYMOUS
284 Morewood at Centre 681-9387 
I2-6 Tues-Fri. II-6 Sat.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
HenpltC [ LasStC :asdspadu yudsstC wytd4w ng s5twnrtsn iueo
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter 
Yes, its true that my column did not come 
out last week. However, it was due to the 
unavoidable occurrence that the Tartan did 
not come out last week. If theres enough 
popular demand, maybe next time there is 
no Tartan Ill write my column anyway, 
and make it into a paper airplane and throw 
it off the roof of Science Hall (or Wean Hall, 
as it is now officially known.).
10 YEARS AGO: Oct. 24, 1972 
According to a front-page article, the Bell 
Telephone Company of Pennsylvania dis
covered that five pay phones on campus had 
been rigged so that students could make 
calls without paying. They estimated that 
$1200 worth of free calls had been made, 
including $959.29 from one phone. (Im not 
sure how you could get a number thats not 
a multiple of a nickel on a pay phone, so 
maybe thats a misprint.) They said that 
unless the students pay for the calls right 
away, they would be prosecuted. The phone 
company keeps a computerized list of all 
calls made from pay phones, so they claimed 
theV would be able to trace the persons who 
made illegal calls.
40 YEARS AGO: Oct. 27, 1942
* here is a big dispute going on over the 
form of student government. An editorial 
states that, The present form of student 
government, organized in 1923, has proven 
antlquated and inefficient. For example, the 
kugineering Senate has never had a meeting 
for the four years we have been in school. In 
Jact, there are only a few faculty members 
who can remember the time when Engi
neering Senate did perform some useful -
function. The Arts Senate has proven 
equally archaic. And yet, these two organiza
tions have nine members on this years Stu
dent Council.
It was also claimed that fraternities domi
nated things out of proportion to the 
number of students in them. The proposed 
solution was proportional representa
tion, a system in which each voter indi
cated his favorite candidates in order of his 
preference by putting numbers  1,2,3, etc, 
 alongside their names on the ballot.
Irrespective of the number of preferences 
the voter may express, his vote is counted for 
but a single candidate  the candidate 
being the first of the voters successive prefer
ences who has not already been credited 
with enough to elect or defeated because he 
has too few. In this way, proportional 
representation prevents the wasting of votes 
and gives effect to every vote to which it is 
possible to give effect.
50 YEARS AGO: Oct. 25, 1932
This issue announces a straw vote 
being taken at Carnegie Tech for the 
upcoming Presidential election between 
Herbert Hoover, the incumbent Republi
can, Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Democrat, 
and Norman Thomas, the Socialist. Accom
panying this article is a summary of the 
candidates platforms on various subjects. 
One of these is Prohibition, which was still 
in effect at that time. All three candidates 
favored repealing it, but the Socialist wanted 
the liquor industry to go under government 
ownership and control. In the next issue of 
the Tartan they announced who won the 
straw vote; Ill reprint that next week. So 
fong for now................................................-
Bill Few, financial planner from Butcher & Singer, spoke to CMUs Investment Club 
Thursday night.
Students rig pay phones
By BOB FISHEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Money flows to where it gets treated 
best, says Bill Few, the financial planner 
from Butcher 8c Singer, who spoke to the 
Investment Club last Thursday night. This 
concept is simple enough to understand. 
When people find a good investment, they 
put money into it. And they dont stop until 
the investment can not handle any more. At 
this point the rate of return begins to 
decrease. So what happens? People look for 
the next best investment.
Sounds simple, right? Wrong! What 
happens in the real world is that every con
sultant claims to know the best investment 
devices (i.e. stocks, oil, gold, etc). That 
makes it hard to choose which option to 
invest in. But there is a way out.
Fundamental analysis provides a means 
for learning where money will get treated 
best, but it takes time. Hard work works, 
says Few. This work must be devoted to 
analyzing the basic aspects of an investment 
(i.e. present status, growth prospects, 
strengths, and weaknesses).
With stocks, the trick is to choose an inter
esting industry and then pick the dominant 
company in that industry. But once again, 
doing the research is essential. As Few him
self learned, Ybu dont make money on 
tips, hunches, or rumors. Tips are started 
by people who buy low and then want oth
ers to buy in order to raise the price.
Robert Metz highlights the criteria for 
stock growth in his book, Future Stocks.
The fundamental analysis method is 
important in choosing tools to invest in, but 
Few uses three other theories to help him 
make his decisions. The first is a decision 
making matrix similar to that discussed in 
Dr. John R. Hayes, The Complete Problem 
Solver.
All the different investment options get 
listed horizontally along the top of the 
matrix while the investors specifications get 
listed down the side of the matrix. Then 
after filling in the matrix, the investor classi
fies which specifications he must have and 
which are not as essential. He then chooses
the investment(s). However, he must be carentCudCsyw tC igry Ol
Specialist removes Xerox's bugs
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
The idea behind this column is to tell you 
the little-known facts about the Decsystem20 and computers in general; basically how 
to make it work easily for you. When the 
systems not working at all, there arent a lot 
of things I can tell you that would help. But 
when it comes to avoiding a weak link in the 
system. . .
In the last column, alternatives to print
ing on a very sick Xerox x9700 were des
cribed. Now the Xerox x9700 printer is 
working again. Sure, it still breaks down, 
but not like it was doing earlier this 
semester.
Mechanical problems are expected, 
says Comp Center Assistant Director of 
Operations Ken Burner, but the Xerox 
repair people are geared up for that. Usual 
down time is about three hours.
The main problem before was an elu
sive, intermittent, electronic bug. All the 
local Xerox guys tried to fix it, but couldnt, 
so they called in a Technical Specialist who 
troubleshoots nation-wide. His job was to
sit there and watch the machine until it 
broke, and then fix it. He wasnt to leave 
until it was fixed.
The bug Burner referred to would 
manifest itself in two ways: bar codes or 
blotches on output and crashing the printer. 
There are four computers in the x9700, and 
they can crash just like the Decsystems, 
Burner explained. As a matter of fact, the 
largest of the four in the x9700 is a Dec 
computer, a PDP 11/23.
But it seems to be working now! Print a 
resume or something to celebrate!
So far this semester there havent been the 
traditional number of system crashes, or so it 
seems. Actual statistics are pending. There 
have been some load problems; as more 
and more people are using the computer for 
more and more things, it slows the system 
down. The Joint Venture CMU and IBM 
have just started will provide an alternative 
that will lessen the load problem amongst 
other things. It should also alleviate system 
crash problems.
The proposed plan has been slightly misntCudCsyw tC igry Ol

---------------------------------------------------

On Wednesday, October 20, a press conference was held to officially announce that CMU 
and IBM would begin developing a personal computing network for the students and faculty 
of the University. Some members of the press seemed to know this before it was announced, 
although most of the in-depth coverage occurred after the conference.
Everything on these two pages, with the exception of the New York Times article by 
Richard VanHorn, has been on the newsstands within the past two weeks. Provost VanHorns 
article appeared in the Times in November of last year; nevertheless, it is quite apropos at this 
time.
 Editor
The P
Termin
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
1MI |PI7|RaR' |RaU' |H1|LIP lo' l9oO
Thursday, October 21, 1982
Carnegie-MeUon, IBM Form Venture For Data Network 
# * *
Protest Erupts Over Proposals 
To Tie Students, Teachers 
To the Schools Computers
By organ iazed
Staff Reporter of pho tbyy JnLgln isgL1by
PITTSBURGH-Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity, already known for computer-science 
prowess, seems eager to become Computer 
U. with the help of International Business 
Machines Corp.
The school said it and IBM formed a joint 
venture to develop a prototype network to 
eventually link each student and faculty 
member to Carnegie Mellon computers.
But some students are up in arms at the 
possibility of having to buy the yet-to-be-developed terminals that will plug into the net
work. Several dozen students protested out
side the news conference announcing the 
venture.
University President Richard M. Cyert is 
known for his ability to attract corporate research-and-development funds. IBM will un
derwrite the entire three-year development 
project, which will employ about 33 IBM and 
university scientists here on campus to de
velop programming and equipment. Lewis 
Branscomb, IBMs chief scientist, estimated 
that IBM will spend $20 million to fund the 
development phase. The company sepa
rately will develop hardware for the net
work. he said.
The idea is to develop powerful computer 
work stations for campus laboratories, 
classrooms and dormitories and off-campus 
homes and offices. The work stations will 
have their own computing capability, and 
will be linked to the network to allow com
munication between users and access , to li
brary information and other data. A net
work system of 7,500 or 8,000 personal com
puters will be, I believe, the largest network 
in personal computing," Mr. Cyert said. It 
will be looked upon some day as one of the 
most significant steps in higher education in 
the 20th century.
Mr. Branscomb said the plan is risky and 
ambitious, but feasible, and if we can pull 
it off, it will be a leading-edge accomplish
ment that IBM can offer commercially as 
well. IBM intends to continue support 
through 1967, based on the projects prog
ress.
Mr. Cyert said he doesnt know whether 
students will have to purchase terminals. 
But he said he suspects theres some truth 
to the rumor that at least some new stu
dents, beginning after 1965, will have to pay 
about $750 a year for terminals. If students 
are required to buy computers, it will be 
part of the cost of going to school, and our 
financial aid department will take that into 
account, he said.
At least two other colleges are moving in 
the same direction. This fall Stevens Insti
tute of Technology began requiring fresh
men in science and systems planning pro
grams to buy Atari 800 microcomputers. A 
spokesman for the Hoboken. NJ., school 
sakl the entire Atari package was made 
available to students for $747, about 40% less 
than the retail price. About 80 freshmen pur
chased the computers this fall to meet the 
requirement; another 40 students and fac
ulty members bought them because they 
wanted to, the spokesman said.
Next fall at Clarkson College of Technol
ogy in Potsdam, N.Y., everyone in the fresh
man class of 800 will have to buy Zenith Z100 microcomputers. An official said stu
dents will pay a one-time fee of $200, then 
$200 a semester for four years to buy the 
computers, which retail for about $4,000 
each. Eventually the school plans to link the 
computers to some kind of network, the offi
cial said.
At CMU, where undergraduate tuition 
will jump 19% next year to $7,500 annually, 
some students arent thrilled about Mr. 
Cyerts ambition to develop a computer-network prototype for every major university 
in the country.
Although the protesters probably will 
graduate before the network begins operat
ing, they believe the additional computer 
cost will drive away applicants. If I were 
in high school right now and knew about the 
extra cost for a computer, Id probably 
think twice about applying, said Leigh Rit
ter, a senior majoring in industrial design. 
That extra cost will deter a lot of people 
from coming here.
Gina Osborn, a senior majoring in writ
ing and history, said many of CMUs 5,500 
students would be pleased to have comput
ers. But some people-drama and fine arts 
majors-dont use computers at all, Miss 
Osborn said. "Are they simply going to de
vise courses to get the computer in 
there?"
Josh Lavinsky, a senior in electrical engi
neering, fears the university atmosphere 
will be less pesonal if everyone becomes, as 
he puts it, a "computer nerd.
University to require . students buy computer
By ROBERT DOHERTY
PITTSBURGH (UPI) - In a move 
described as a revolution in educa
tion," Carnegie-Mellon University offi
cials Sunday outlined a unique program 
requiring every student to own a per
sonal computer wired to the schools 
system.
With the program, school President 
Richard M. Cyert said, CMU will be
come the first university to make com
puters standard equipment for students.
A decision was expected later in the 
week on whether IBM or Digital Equip
ment Corp. will install the computer 
network. Cyert said research will con
tinue on the program until 1985, when 
he expects the campus to be completely 
wired.
What we want is a computersaturated environment, he said. "I 
think this will be looked back on as the 
greatest revolution in education during 
the 20th centu^.
Every major institution will be fol
lowing us in a few years, if they are 
able, he said.
As planned, by 1985 all of the 
schools 8,000 to 9,000 students and 
teachers will own terminals wired into 
the school's main computer and library.
Students will buy the terminals at a 
cost of about $750 a year and keep them 
when they graduate. Graduates will be 
able to plug into the university system 
from anywhere in the nation, Cyert
said.
He said students will be able to use 
the computers for normal class assign
ments and special programs.
There are just innumerable ways to 
use it, most of which we havent even 
come up with yet. Thats part of what 
the research program will do, he said.
Cyert estimated the system will 
allow CMU to give students 50 percent 
more information over a four-year peri
od and increase a students productiv
ity.
Another benefit, he said, is that 
graduates can stay in the system and 
we will be able to keep them up to 
date on their education.
Cyert said all students should be 
able to afford the terminals because of 
their relatively low cost and high resale 
value.
He said he expects most students to 
keep the computers.
We believe that in four or five 
years, every professional will have a 
personal computer, he said.
Cyert* said about 25 universities, in
cluding Stanford and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, have expressed 
interest in forming a consortium to 
learn from the Carnegie-Mellon experi
ment.
This is a logical development of 
computer systems, he said. We think 
this will be the education of the 21th 
Century.
Pittsburgh Post-iSazette
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22,1982
imir
/TMbSTQRr
'0ft \m$m cm te iccf fiiw,;

---------------------------------------------------

sburgh Press
Fever Already Contagious At CMU
Wed., Oct 20,1982
By LEE HOTZ
Inside a circle of concentration, 
ott Safier bats at the keys of his 
nputer terminal, listening with 
[f art ear to the tenor saxophone 
rbling down the hall.
Through the snorts and cackles 
ing from a hard-fought backgamm game going on in the middle of 
dormitory room, Safier is trying 
catch the ear of a friend several 
>ms away in Donner Ball at Carie-Mellon University.
*1 just type TALK and it will 
ip him obnoxiously until I tell it 
top, he said, staring impatiently 
the screen.
\ 19-year-old CMU senior from 
ite Oak, Safier paid $699 for his 
n terminal and a phone link so 
t he could use the university 
nputers without leaving his 
im. He majors in mathmatics and 
'chology.
)n the other side of the campus; 
ve Bergey takes the cover off a 
250 personal computer in a room 
twded with ceremonial beer mugs
at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraterni
ty. He majors in electrical engineer
ing.
He keys it into life, then calls up 
the phases of the moon from a CMU 
computer a quarter-rrile away.
At a university already known for 
its intensive use of computers, the 
hallways hum with talk of PASCAL, 
programming assignments and elec
tronic games of dungeons and drag
ons. Safier, Bergey and other 
students who own personal comput
ers dwell more in the brave new 
world than many of their class
mates.
About 20 percent of CMUs 5,500 
students have their own terminals 
or a friend who does. All are re
quired to take programming courses 
and all have access to the university 
computers, including music majors.
CMU today announced that by 
1986 all students may be required to 
buy sophisticated personal comput
ers, developed as part of a multimil
lion dollar joint project between the 
university and IBM.
Students acknowlecge the pres
tige that the project may add to 
their diplomas. They also say they 
hope it means an end to the compe
tition for a seat at a CMU computer 
terminal.
Some, frustrated in their search 
for computer time, adopt nightowl 
schedules so that they can work 
uninterrupted from midnight until 
dawn.
But many  including some who 
have already bought their own ma
chines  greet the announcement 
cynically, worrying about the cost 
of the project to students and its 
eventual effect on education at 
CMU.
They are just going to bleed us 
again, said Keith Recker, a junior 
majoring in writing. He believes 
that computers have become a gim
mick of higher education, worming 
their way into university courses not 
because they are useful, but because 
they are academic status symbols.
The computer is not a tool here. 
Its a task. I dont enjoy it, he 
added.
Caroline Woerner, also a junior 
writing major, sees it as mixed 
blessing, one in which she has yet to 
find the beneficial side. Computers 
in her experience at CMU have been 
inconvenient, tedious and intimidat
ing.
My major concern is with the 
trade-off. Is it more important to be 
prepared with technical knowledge 
... or to learn how to think, make 
judgments, how to look at an idea? 
she asked.
I think maybe they are trading 
one for the other.
Giving everybody a computer is 
dumb idea, Bergey said. Not ev
erybody needs one. I think its a 
waste of computers.
Bergey shares his computer with 
fraternity brothers. He uses it about
10 hours a week for homework and 
game-playing. Safier says he uses 
his 20 hours a week. Jody Byck, who 
shares his $250 terminal with fra
ternity brothers at Zeta Beta Tau, 
uses his 35 hours a week.
Byck majors in administration 
and management science, as well as 
information systems. He considers 
himself an average student.
When you get on the computers 
for four hours, its nothing, Byck 
said. Ill get on for eight hours at 
stretch.
In my room I can listen to music 
and have a beer. If theres 3 feet of 
snow on the ground who wants to 
walk to a terminal?
The personal computers may be 
of benefit to the students but a 
bigger benefit for the university. I 
dont like the idea. You should be 
able to escape your schoolwork.
For Byck, a private terminal may 
be a question of convenience, but 
some faculty and students are con
cerned that such convenience may 
become isolation. They conjure up a 
picture of students with their eyes 
frozen on video display screens, 
speaking only in broken computer 
babble.
I know the myth, said Safier. A 
member of the student senate, he is 
chairman of the student committee 
on the future of computing.
I think once youre on a comput
er, it is hard to get off. There are 
times Ill say I have nothing better 
to do. Ill come in here and log on 
and play.
But I have enough other work to 
do that I don't have to worry about 
it, he said, pitching his voice over 
the raucous hum and drum of the 
dormitory.
We re concerned that there has 
been no student input. No one asked 
us if we wanted personal computers.
I hate being a guinea pig.
A Day With a Live-In Campus Computer
Richard, L. VanHorn is provost of 
| arnegie-Mellon University.
By RICHARD L. VANHORN
In the fall of 1980, Richard Cyert, the 
president of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
mounced that the university planned to 
rovide a personal computer terminal for 
jjjhch student, starting in 1986. The tech
nology for the project is available. All 
that is needed is a commitment to the 
belief that a personalized computing 
environment will actually enhance edu
ction  and substantial amounts of 
money, effort and good design, 
fe Assuming that Carnegie-Mellon 
Becomes the first university to provide a 
Jftrminal for every student, a student 
Bright spend the following typical day in 
'1989.
: One morning in the fall, Susan awakes 
l|i her dorm room to see her television 
Bhbe staring back at her. It is her personal 
jj Jmputer terminal, which she and her
 How freshmen had received on enrolHnent three years earlier.
I For Susan, her terminal is more than
 sential. It is an old friend, with 
I horn she has shared moments of trimph after days of hard work.
I Her friend is hooked into the universis large computers, which are, in turn, 
>nnected to computers across the nation
I other universities, libraries and other
 formation services, as well as travel serces, ticket agencies and banks. On the
 re occasions that her friend develops an
 lment, the university lends her a 
Machine until her own is repaired. She 
*ys about $2,000 over four years for the 
B)mPuter terminal and, when she gradu31es next year, her friend will accompany
l-r.
H As she starts most mornings, Susan on
 is day turns on her terminal to check 
Ie previous day's events. She types 
H^AIL, instructing it to collect any 
Ht(,u messages and to display a list of the
 aders names and topics.
 $he saves for later two messages from
II boyfriend and one from her mother 
I10 has a terminal at home in New
CI)c jScUr Jjork Sxmcs
Sunday, November 15, 1981
York). She decides, however, to read now 
the one marked "URGENT from her 
English professor.
The professors message reminds her 
The final version of your paper on 
Chaucer is overdue.
Susan types REPLY along with a 
message that she would submit the paper 
later that day.
As she dries her hair, she quickly scans 
a display of the university calendar for 
the day, deciding to watch the womens 
soccer match that afternoon if she has 
time.
After breakfast, she returns to her room 
to rewrite her Chaucer paper before 10 
oclock class. Susan asks the computer to 
display her draft, which had been 
returned yesterday with suggestions by 
her professor. She follows his sugges
tions, writing an entirely new conclud
ing section in response to his comment 
that her paper has good analysis but 
lacks direction.
As a final check, Susan instructs the 
computer to conduct a spelling and 
grammar check. On cue, the terminal dis
plays four questionable words: Boccac
cio, Canterbury, lehtergy and 
discripdon. Two of these are correct 
proper nouns, not in the computers dic
tionary. The third contains a typo. The 
fourth word looks fine to Susan, but, after 
checking the computer dictionary, she 
concludes discription is misspelled 
and corrects it.
The diligent computer also identifies a 
singular verb acting along with a plural 
subject and a dangling participle with 
which she decides not to tamper.
The final item Susan needs is the cor
rect citation for a book of criticism on 
Chaucer that she has referred to several 
times. Was it G.I. Kittredges Chaucer
and His Poetry? she wonders. Placing 
the text processing routine on hold, she 
types CATALOGUE to instruct her 
computer to connect to the universitys 
master library catalogue. She quickly 
finds the correct catalogue citation and, 
with a few key commands, copies it into 
the reference list for her paper. She then 
electronically mails the paper to her pro
fessor and heads for her 10 oclock class in 
Origins in the Modern World.
After lunch, Susan reads her mail and 
does some homework, withbut going 
back to her dorm room. Instead, she goes 
next door to one of the several dozen com
puter cluster centers scattered around the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
Each center has 15 to 20 computer ter
minals plus a color laser printer for those 
occasions when students want a printout. 
Finding a free terminal, Susan identifies 
herself as SV44, types her password, 
GORF (selected from a popular com
puter game during her junior-high days) 
and is connected to her files via the cable 
network.
She reads her boyfriends notes, sends a 
message arranging to meet him at dinner, 
reads her mothers letter and sends a brief 
return letter to New York. If only, she 
muses, her mother could send her elec
tronically some delectable chocolate chip 
cookies.
Susan starts next on Jier statistics 
homework, which is due tomorrow. Her 
assignment demands that she use a sam
pling approach to analyze the census for 
San Francisco in 1970 and 1980 to decide 
if the average age of the population of 
San Francisco has increased. A decade 
ago, the assignment tied up statistics stu
dents for days.
She instructs the computer to search 
the library catalogue for the entries on
census data and she reads the instructions 
on how to use the census data base. With 
a few commands, she extracts a random 
sample of 1,000 people from the census 
data.
Susan asks the computer to perform 
several statistics tests and to prepare some 
graphs and charts. Her instructions are 
executed in a wink, so she has spare time 
to look through her statistics textbook 
and her class notes, searching for ideas 
and checking over her work.
At one point, she is hopelessly stuck, 
but she spies Ellen, the class statistical 
wizard, at a nearby terminal. She gets 
the help she needs, then returns to her 
terminal ttyfinish the assignment in time 
to rush over and buy ice cream at the 
Tartan Grill before her class in social 
policy.
With all the opportunities available 
for students to see, attend, study, pur
chase, participate in, or join, Susan 
wonders how they ever managed without 
computers to help ease the drudgery of 
college work. But then, she reflects as she 
re-enters her room and drops her books, 
earlier students must have marveled at 
hand calculators, typewriters and slide 
rules in a similar manner.
She is pleasantly tired, so it doesnt take 
her long to undress, wash, select her out
fit for tomorrow, and get ready for bed. 
Once again, she sits down with her 
friend for the last tasks of the day. Con
necting to her banks computer, she 
checks out her balance and updates her 
check records. Then, connecting to the 
travel service, she makes air reservations 
for Christmas.
She finds a brief message from her Eng
lish professor acknowledging receipt of 
her paper and one from the statistics 
department secretary announcing a room 
change for tomorrows class. Susan 
checks the assignment files for each of her 
courses to make sure she is prepared and 
also to plan her day for tomorrow.
Convinced that all is under control, she 
turns off her computer, climbs into bed 
and drifts off to sleep.

---------------------------------------------------

Clip friis ad Send it to dad Get yourself an off-campus pad
Now its easy at The Tower. A condomin
ium at Chatham Center. Because weve 
developed a plan that, in conjunction 
with the Economic Recovery Act of 1981, 
makes it possible for buyers of condo
miniums to create tax losses when renting 
those condominiums to relatives or co
owners.
The plan also permits accelerated 
depreciation, which allows the owner of 
a rental property to write off its value in 
15 years instead of 25 to 40 years. That 
means a king-size annual tax deduction 
for your parents. And best of all, a beau
tiful apartment home for you at The Tower. 
With a private doorman to greet you 24 
hours a day. And an elegant hospitality 
lounge where you can study, or just relax.
As a resident of The Tower, youll have 
special privileges to the Chatham Hyatt 
Health Club, where you can start your 
day with a workout, sauna or swim.
And all this is waiting for you in the 
heart of Pittsburghs dynamic Renais
sance II. Convenient to school and just 
minutes from shopping, dining and excit
ing nighttime entertainment.
So what are you waiting for? Now, 
instead of asking for more money, you 
can write home and tell your parents 
how to get in on some major tax and 
equity benefits. .
Theyll be very impressed with all that 
youve learned.
Sales Center on the 20th floor, open from 
10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, 
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday and 11 a.m. to 
6 p.m. Sunday.
Follow signs to Civic Arena. We are directly 
across the street at Chatham Center. Free 
parking at the door.
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
(412)471-4600WER
A CONDOMINIUM AT CHATHAM CENTER
Presented by BJF Development, Inc. on behalf of The Prudential Insurance Company of America.

---------------------------------------------------

17
to make the requirements too res trieelse he wont choose anything, 
rndly, Few makes great use of pie 
money is only invested in certain 
s. In other words the range of invest
ments is limited.
I f ' ^ '
The investor should ask himself what 
he wants to invest in, and then should 
istribute these investments proportionately 
>rtfolio management). This is an answer 
the saying, "Dont put all your eggs in 
Jne basket. Why? Because although investig in the right device may make someone a 
lillionaire, investing in the wrong option
can just as easily send him to the poor house.
And with this point, Few stresses his final 
theory. An investor has to use his intuition. 
If an investment does not feel good, get out 
of it. Bill Few can be heard from 4:00 to 7:00 
on Sundays on WTKN, AM 970 discussing 
money matters on his show "Money Talk.
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!
:duuW)s,rp HAygC Hduc Htbbduuyy' CnTHE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 ga. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
LOWENBRAU I.. Dk.-bottles
MICHElOB
BUDWEISER*
MILLER'
OLD ENGLISH 800
SCHLITZ MALT*
IRON CITY
ERL ANGERbotti
GENNESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS"
PA8STSCHLITZ"
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK -bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE _________
PINK CHAMP ALE-bottles 
COLT 45- 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
'available in quarts also
Ia1"PR7 OO BaPI1I[ | ["L[
Sled* Corned Beel^TunoeTurfcey
[aRJHMI[
H<iddocli*Cod*Grouod Steok*Sousoge 
Veol*Chuck*Chicken Pormeson
[:IHa1U 1I[
Steak Subs*fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3am
JI aPI R|1 a|JI 1| 
aBIP1[I |"P |J LIIP :PHI[
Serving beer Sunday lpm-2om 
Imports, Cons, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKENeMOLSON ALE*MICHELOB 
STROHSMILLERSCHllTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk. 
featured eoch week: 
STROHSROLLING ROCK*SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500*SCHLITZMALTPABST
-ImportsBECK Sll. Dl - Germany $1 P AUII GIRI - Germony
BASS AU England DOS EQUIS XX - Memco
HARP  AGER Ireland JOHN COURAGE England
MOISON GOlDfN Canada WATNfYS-Englonil
HFINFKFNli Dk Holland CARISBERG ElEPHANI Den
IOWENBRAU Germany 
O KEEFE ALE -Canada 
PIISNER USGUEU-Czech 
KIRINJapan
MACKESON StOUI Ireland 
OID VIENNA IAGER-G 
55 IAGER - Canada
CARISBERG ROYAIE Denmark 
CARISBERG DARK -Denmark
TSINGIAO-China 
HACKE* PSCHORR-Germany 
IABATISCanada 
la MURPHY-Ireland
COOPER & SON - Auslralia 
FOSTER S I AGER-Australia
Open
9om-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9om-4:45om Fri-Sat 
Call 621 7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
INC. PgH, Pa. 15213
Troubleshooter Raids bugs
Few, financial planner, supplies hints to U's Investment Club about using intuition
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry lm
represented by the press. The key part of the 
Joint Venture is NOT the individual per
sonal computers, but the networking that 
will ue them all together and to one main 
machine.
Right now, most of the terminals are tied 
to one computer when in use. It is possible 
to go from computer to computer on the 
DECNet, and the Micom makes it possible 
for you to select what computer you want to 
be ded to. But if the system is down, youre 
stuck.
In the future, you wont be as stuck. With 
a personal computer, you could still write 
your paper using EMACs, run it through 
Scribe, and print it somewhere, regardless of 
the condition of the main, or central, com
puter. You may not be able to print it on the 
central printer, but would use a special one 
for your personal computer.
Personal computers are "down less 
often. Sure, if you spill an I.C. Light down
the keyboard it may act up a litde, but I.C. 
will do that to anything. PCs are just more 
reliable than big, clunky "main-frames, 
which the Decsystem-20 is.
The other really nice thing about having 
a personal computer is accessibility. If you 
want to work at 2:00 in the morning without 
traipsing across campus, you can. If you 
want to work at a Peak hour, you wont 
have to stand in line waiting for a terminal. 
Using the computer will be that much eas
ier, efficient and convenient.
Is it worth what students may have to pay 
for it? Thats another question, but as you 
get used to using the computer, and see how 
much easier it can make some things, its 
difficult to go back to the old ways. I havent 
touched my typewriter for two years now. I 
tried last week, but forget it. The computer 
is just better for writing. It would be nice if I 
could take that technology along with me 
when I leave.
J^ucker Jlotrc!
A chocolate treat 
for your favorite sweet!
A Geoffrey Boehm chocolate pumpkin 
sucker, attached with a special message of 
yours.
Sales: Tues. 26, Wed. 27
Where: Skibo 1:30  5:30
Morewood 5:00  8:00 
Front of Doherty Hall 1:00  4:00 
Delivery:Dorms: Oct. 30 
Warner: Oct. 29 
Brought to you by Delta Delta Delta and 
Kappa Sigma.
folcohol series to start
\CMU sponsors awareness program
October 26, 1982The TartanPage 21
such a large issue.
The series will run for four weeks, starting 
this Thursday the 28th at 7 p.m. in the 
Highlander Room with a session entitled, 
Attitudes on Alcohol. The remaining pro
grams, to be held on November fourth, elev
enth, and sixteenth, respectively, are, 
Drinking and Driving Issues (which will 
feature an Allegheny County probation 
officer); What is Alcoholism? Symptoms 
and Treatment; an<* Alcohol: Special 
Issues.
Witchner urges everyone to come and 
listen to the experts perspective on the use 
and abuse of alcohol. The program will 
provide students with immediate resources; 
its an educational tool. She stressed, Peo
ple not coming to the lectures are missing 
something.
A CMU student searches diligendy, his search however futile, for buried financial aid.
Tomorrow: Senatorial Forum
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Tomorrow at noon in the Skibo Ball
room there will be a Pennsylvania Senatorial 
Forum during which students will be able 
to direct questions to senatorial candidates 
(or their representatives) of the Representa
tive, Democratic, Consumer, Socialist, and 
Libertarian Parties.
The candidates, who will be on stage, will 
deliver a five-minute speech after which the
Xerox is cleared up
other candidates will have three minutes in 
which to respond. Tom Kerr, a GSIA profes
sor, will moderate the question-answer 
period, according to Anne R. Witchner, the 
Director of Student Activities.
Every7 representative may not be present, 
but she is certain that Dr. Cyril Wecht, the 
Democratic candidate, will be present. She 
said, As a student who lives here (in Pitts
burgh), youll be affected. Its also a good 
chance to see whats going on in politics.
 }y PAULINE KRAMER
I ration Assistant Features Editor 
I Drinking has become extremely socially 
acceptable, especially on college campuses. 
:MU is no exception; as a result, Anne R. 
Mvitchner, Director of Student Activities, 
IBnd Jeff Rutkowski, the fraternity advisor 
Hhrough the Housing Office, have estab
lished an alcohol awareness program in 
n effort to make students as aware as possile about alcohol and pertinent, related 
Hssues.
I According to W7itchner, it is a new pro
gram of its kind because w'ere not using any 
Hjniversity people  were getting outside 
Professionals.
1 A lot of schools are doing things like 
Hiis, she continued, theyre offering these 
eries more and more because alcohol is

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 26, 1982
"Hooverville" built in protest of Reagan
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Features Editor
Last week a representative from ACORN, 
an activist group concerned with commun
ity rights, called the Tartan with a message 
that there would be a rally opposing Reagan 
and the people that support him on Satur
day at St. Benedict the Moor Church. St. 
Benedict is located a block above the Civic 
Arena at the junction of Center Ave. and 
Crawford St.
Renamed Freedom Comer, it is hard to 
imagine a more appropiate location for the 
rally. One side of the block is bordered by the 
church. A rowT of abandoned houses bounds 
the other side, more decayed buildings 
behind Crawford, and a view of downtown 
Pittsburgh with Renaisance II construction 
rises above the Civic Arena dome.
Unfortunatley for Tartan readers, news of 
Saturdays rally, like news of personal com
puters, comes too late to do much of any
thing but groan. However, unlike personal 
computers, you may still participate in a 
part of the rally. Saturday merely kicked off 
a ten day symposium on issues sure to be 
sugar coated or even ignored by the Republi
cans in the upcoming election.(See schedule 
of events on this page.Admission to all 
events: non-perishable canned goods for the 
benefit of the Pittsburgh Community Food 
Bank.)
If you decide to check out any of the 
upcoming events you will see that Free
dom Comeris less a rally and more an occu
pation. In memory of Hoovervilles from the 
1930s, a group of 40 Pittsburgh organiza
tions calling themselves the Remember in 
November Coalition have pitched tents in 
the vacant lot along Crawford St. Called 
Pittsburghs Reagan Ranch, these 1982 
Hoovervilles have been set up in the 32 other
ACORN co-sponsored Reagan Ranchset up above Civic Arena. The tents, reminescent 
public rights symposium. For Information Call: 321-4767; 488-8668
cities across America that have grown 
ACORN organizations.
By 4 p.m. Saturday 15 tents had been 
erected and more are expected to rise as the 
occupation continues through this wreek. 
Many of the tents displayed signs identify
ing the groups they represent. Signs seem to 
be a common denominator of the rally as 
individual groups strive to make their own 
concerns visible.
But, at the same time the individual 
groups have united against what they per
ceive to be a common foe: the ideas of Rea
gan and his supporters. Made up of civil 
rights groups, peace groups, religous organ
izations, and labor unions, the coalition 
symbolizes a growing grassroots coopera
tion unseen since the anti-draft demonstra
tions of a decade ago. One lady I talked to 
felt the idea of a coalition was important,because it takes many different groups to 
bring all these people together.
Dick Gregory, a civil rights advocate who 
spoke at CMU in the spring of 1981, deli
vered a speech that had people talking all 
afternoon. In his speech titled "Talkin Rea
ganomics,Gregory said people had to 
become better informed on current political 
issues. He also stressed that people must 
transcend individual greed and get in touch 
with the god within each person.
I liked what Gregory said about god,said a black woman standing outside the 
Consumer Party tent. When I was growing 
up in New York in the 40s and 50s my 
parents didnt have welfare or food stamps. 
People helped each other. If a house burned 
down, wed hold a church bazzar. Or take in 
a cousin that got evicted. People dont do 
that anymore.
A curly haired white man liked what Gre
gory said about love. Thats what the 60s 
were all about, he said,Love, caring, con
cern, helping. Thats what lifes all about.
Invocations against selfishness and heavy 
use of the words god and love betrayed the 
idealism of the crowd assembled on Free
dom Comer Saturday afternoon.
As nightfall brought the temperature 
down to 28 degrees I wondered if that ideal
istic spirit would last the night let alone the 
w7eek. But, the people who planned to spend
photo by Geof Becker 
of 30s Hooverville, are focal point of ten day
the night in tents combed the area for fire
wood, hotdogs sizzled on a charcoal grill, 
and there was more humor than despair at 
the citys unwillingness to furnish a porta
ble toilet. (Not enough money to rent one.) 
Yes, I thought, the spirit is here. These peo
ple are burning with a fire that staves off 
even government indifference.
Tuesday, Oct.26 i$ p.m. Job Creation Rally 
8: p.m. Film Festival 
Wednesday, Oct. 27
11 a.m.-l p.m. Jubilee Kitchen Soupline at the Reagan 
Ranch 8:15 p.m. Hunger Triple Feature 
Thursday, Oct. 28
Panel discussion-Your Rights Under Reagan. Call 
for information.
Friday, Oct.29
3:30 p.m. Rally Against Student Loan Cutbacks 
8 p.m. Films on the Draft and El Salvador 
Saturday, 0ct.30
11 a.m. Jobs With Peace Rally featuring city 
councilman Tom Flaherty, sponsor of Nov. 2 Jobs 
With Peace Ballot Referendum 
7 p.m. Second Tent City Meeting 
Sunday, Oct. 31
2 p.m.-5p.m. Voodoo Reaganomics Cabaret
IaRI
ALL PROOFS MUST BE RETURNED NEXT WEEK!*
Return:Sitting Numbers:
492950 to 493099 ..................................................Wed. November 3
493100 to 493249 ............................................Thurs. November 4
493250 to 493358 .....................................................Fri. November 5
TIME: 9:00  5:00 '
PLACE: Skibo Hall  Gray Matter 
BRING: lAA Proofs.
A deposit of 50% on personal portrait orders.
Dont miss getting your picture in the Thistle!
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Bv
ym becomes Casbah 
s Clash rocks at CMU
igry entCuud
artan Staffwriter
How did most people find out about the 
fcash concert? I dont know. I personally 
ound out about it in a very rude way. The 
ne: I am eavesdropping. The Location: 
the lobby of Morewood 
Gardens. The Date: I have no 
idea. The Characters: myself 
and two other idle loiterers.
Hey! Did you hear? The Clash are comhere!
Cmon, get serious.
"No, really!
Do I look really stupid or something? 
ouve got to be putting me on.
 No, its true. Cross my heart and hope to 
lie.
9 The next scene is the Skibo Grey Matter, 
October 6. The place is packed. People are 
I ned up from the information desk to the 
tvolving doors. Mayhem rules. Some of 
these {people must have come from out of the 
I woodwork. The like of them have never 
b n seen before on the CMU campus. Com9 at attire is prevalent. Those who arent in 
I live garb look as if they should be carrying 
I /hips and chains. It is not the average Grey
 latter gathering.9 Is anyone buying less than four tickets?
 (Many answers in the negative.)9 PLEASE!! I REALLY NEED A 9 ICKET!! ILL DIE WITHOUT ONE!! 
FIOW CAN YOU PEOPLE DO THIS TO
 IE??
1 The scene shifts to the Tartan Grill, 
October 16. A person with two-tone hair sits
 almly eating a Tartan Burger. Another 
j roup of people, all of whom are dressed in 9 haki and punk glasses, rises in unison and 9 alf-walks, half-marches to the door. Two 9 omparatively normal people observe.
I I really wish I was going to the concert. It 9 *>ks freakin wild.
I Yeah, I know what you mean
 Lets get drunk instead.
 OK. Im with you.
I Outside the gym, 7:30 p.m. It is extremely 
cold, and the line of people is beginning to
 tretch down the sidewalk. Few of them
 ?em to notice the cold. It could be due to 
massive amounts of alcohol and/or halluci
nogenic drugs in their bodies. W7ho knowrs?
 In side the gym people are crowding 
)ward the stage. The mass of people is
I omparatively subdued during the opening 
I erformance by the Core. Even so 
I ley start getting restless toward the end of 
I ie five song set. Then, as The Core left the 
I age, the crowd erupted. People started getI ng very rowdy, and many were swaying so
much that they almost fell. It was difficult to 
be around persons with body odor problems 
since everyone was packed together very 
tightly. Many guys commented that it was a 
good way to get to know some new women.
I left that horde after having ashes spilled all 
over me.
Then the house lights went down.
The red flashing lights started revolving 
up on stage.
Out came The Clash.
Good evening and welcome to the Casbah Club.
Frenzy in the audience. The band starts 
playing and the slamdancing begins. I am 
, in no condition to dance. My mind is full of 
some pretty disoriented thoughts. For 
example:
Oh wow. London Calling. Great song.
I wonder if that sound hes making is sup
posed to be a wolf howling or a 
crowing. Massive freak out potential, 
anyway.
Look at the weird netting behind the 
stage. When they say Combat Rock they 
really mean it...Know Your Rights! Im 
definitely in the mood for this song. But I 
dont know. It isnt as great as I expected. 
Car Jamming sounds OK, though.
Its a pity the sound isnt better. I really 
cant stand those squeaky, kill-your-ear 
noises that every PA system in the world 
makes.
Rock the Casbah!! Its a good thing 
theyre doing this cause for a while there I 
was beginning to lose interest. I like it better 
this way than on the album  or maybe not, 
I dont know. I guess its just different. There 
isnt any piano, just guitar. Very good. 
Maybe I will try to dance a little after all.
ntCudCsyw tC igry Oe
photo bv Rhoda Funk
The Clash, which played at CMU last week during mid-semester break, sold out two hours 
after tickets went on sale.
CWgCduc gu [ugCAycRobin Williams still spontaneous
By DEBBIE NIR
Tartan Staffwriter
You spend nine months trying to get out of 
the womb and the rest of your life trying to 
get back in.
Robin Williams, Oct. 22, 1982 
Minutes before the lights dimmed in the 
Stanley Theatre a stage hand placed a box of 
props on the floor under the proscenium. It 
looked as if this were going to be another 
evening of calculated comedy by 
a television-spoiled comedian.
But not once did Robin Willi
ams touch that box of comedi
ans safety devices. With a wildy enthusiastic
audience lending him all the spontaneous 
material and adrenalin he needed, Williams 
proved that after four years of rigid TV 
scripts he is still the imperial wizard of 
improvisational comedy.
Listening to Williams is like watching a 
boisterous English comedy  its impossi
ble to catch everything in the first sitting 
Donned in navy blue baggy pants  Rob
ins wearing lovely pants by Hefty Bag  
and a blue Hawaiian shirt, Williams began 
his intelligent ramblings, but for the first ten 
minutes many jokes were incomprehensible 
due to well deserved continuous laughter. 
Later the crowd learned that silence is asNebraska" is a depressing experiment
Y LESLEY BRUNKER
| artan Staffwriter 
Most bands and musicians, at some time 
11 their careers, decide it is time for a change. 
1 Rush, for example, updated their sound 
9L adding an electronic element while 
retaining their established iden
tity. Black Sabbath underwent a 
major transition after mad' man Ozzy Ozbome left.
And the Beatles saw more phases than one
 ght care to count. But sometimes, this 
lange  or experiment  does not work
 u for the best. Such is the case with Bruce
 ^mgsteens newest album, Nebraska. 
H n a nutshell, the album has failed to live 
HJ jo its advanced billing. Springsteens 
| * icity man certainly played up the effort,
nS1,ig out some intriguing facts as the 
'as( (^lte approached. No, his record com,U -^lumbia) did not know he was
working on new material.
Yes, it is all-acoustic and yes, he does play 
all the instruments. Yes, it was made in his 
home studio on a four-track system and re
mastered.
With a story like that, how can an album 
miss? Guitar virtuosos (and Springsteen was 
first known as a guitarist) such as Rik 
Emmet and Alex Lifeson create magic on an 
acoustic guitar. And jazz harmonica can be 
fun.
But Nebraska misses. The instrumental 
aspect is horribly neglected and suffers from 
an acute case of lack of emphasis. The vocals 
are monotonous  in fact, the whole album 
is monotonous  and often unintelligible, 
obscuring the occasionally redeeming lyrics. 
And all the tracks are bent toward 
depression.
Several factors make one wonder if 
Nebraska is indeed anything more than
an experiment  or Springsteens way of 
saying, Go to hell, world. This is what I 
want to do.
The decision to keep the album all
acoustic certainly detracts from a potentially 
good rock song in Johnny 99 which is 
simply not carried by the limited sound.
And the reuse of lyrics in State Trooper 
and Open All Night does not make the 
grade. The one saving grace is My Fathers 
House, (though it does sound suspiciously 
like Jackson Brownes Looking Into You) 
a song about return to a childhood home to 
find time has altered the past.
Because of Springsteens past successes, 
one must give him some leeway.
Nebraska is probably just a break from 
his established routine, a vacation to which 
he is surely entitled. No doubt his next 
album will be back in the style that made 
him so popular  at least, lets hope so.
important as laughter in appreciating all of 
Williams nuances.
The comic ad-lib scenes were occasion
ally interrupted by philosophical criticisms 
heard by only the most perceptive ears. 
When a collection of Williamsisms are 
published the book would have to include 
some of his gems from Friday nights perfor
mances; Cocaine is Gods way of saying 
youre making too much money, Filtertip cigarettes are like putting gauze in front 
of a machine gun, and The leaves dont 
turn colors in California. They tan.
Williams improvisational skills bril
liantly came to his defense against every 
comics worst enemy  the heckler. None of 
these all season pests were safe from the sting 
of his razor-sharp tongue. Williams made 
the hecklers part of the show by taking on 
their character, often portraying them as 
people with brains deteriorated by drugs. 
When one screamed out, Wheres Mindy? 
he whipped out, Shes safe from you!
Like most comedians, Williams cleverly 
manipulated the audience by lovingly pok
ing fun at their city. After joking on the 
strange names and sparkling water of the 
three rivers, he went on to ask the audience, 
How long ago did they bomb downtown?
While occasionally getting out erf hand 
with sometimes crude comments on sexual 
organs, Williams was most piercing eiiscussing current events. After declaring that fight 
promoter Don King was actually Buck 
Wheats illegitimate child, he said he 
believed that Nancy dubbed Ronald Rea
gans voice.
continued on pag 36

---------------------------------------------------

" stories poems creative essays
cartoons photography illustration b&w artwork
,#*
submissions: 
Tartan office
or call x2112 or x3567

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 25
With The Pumper you can start a party any
where. The plastic, no-deposit, no-return, 
quarter keg holds nearly three-and-a-half 
cases of cold iron City or I.C. light Just add 
ice and insert the reusable Pumper tap and 
youre ready to rip. Pick up The Pumper at 
your local distributor.
'High and Mighty": Donnie Iris returns to pop
TOM WOODLEY
rtan Staffivriter
For anyone hoping to find eight songs of 
e Ah Leah genre on the new Donnie Iris 
a grave disappointment lurks around 
comer. In The High and the Mighty, 
nnie Iris re-emphasizes his pop rock 
ckground with musically strong compoons but overworked ideas and unimaginve lyrics.
Donnie Iris is an artist recognised mainly 
his hard rock oriented hits including 
~ve is Like a Rock, I Cant Hear You, 
Ah Leah. On an album basis howr, it is suprising to find that Donnie Iris is 
sically a pop-rock musician replete with 
shy lyrics and heavy pulse. The High and 
Mighty, then, is essentially the third link 
a tasty trend for pop-lovers and a final 
pter for hard rock fans.
After realizing what
adjusting to the feel of the music, one sees 
that the records merits begin to stand out. 
Compared to its predecessors, The High 
and the Mighty is more musically complex 
and intricate. A more complete and compli
mentary keyboards sound lies behind the 
new music.
Some catchy, innovative guitaring is 
found on the album, but unfortunately is 
not one of its characteristics. The vocals, 
always a predominant part of Iris tracks, are 
naturally full, but also seem more calcu
lated. In other words, vocal harmonics are 
used, not so much routinely as before, but to 
make the songs really kick and move with 
life.
Since the album is, at the bottom, pop 
rock, the typically superficial lyrics of pop 
compositions are found in plenty on The 
igh and the Mighty. Listeners get the full
blessing of young, passionate love and Sat
urday nights in trodden, lusterless themes. 
In most cases, Donnie Iriss musical talent is 
capable of pulling off the songs without 
intellectual pain. Unfortunately, a few of 
the songs, like Glad All Over are 
unsalvageable.
The album kicks off with Tough 
World, a vocally-oriented song backed 
with mild guitar and keyboards. The music 
flows well, with one particularly warm 
chord change, but is hindered by inanimate 
lyric ideas. I Wanna Tell Her follows 
with pounding beat and a full instrumental 
sound for an overall solid composition. A 
potentially good change in the mood of the 
song is made but is promptly dropped 
again.
If one can resist the temptation to turn off 
the stereo during the first twenty seconds of
Parallel Time, one can enjoy a decent 
song. Donnie Iris tried his hardest to kill this 
respectable piece with a joking but terrible 
lyrical concept. Fortunately, strong vocals 
and a moving background guitar part come 
to the rescue to avoid total destruction.
Possibly what is missing from The High 
and the Mighty is the juvenile liveliness 
which made Donnie Iriss old material 
appealing. The ideas expressed in his pre
vious records seemed lived and inspired. 
The feeling generated by warm summer 
nights, empty parking lots, street life and 
tight jeans in the music seemed real and 
alive. Now, the Iris style tends to be con
trived and forced. In effect, where Iriss old 
pieces were created out of a real gut feeling, 
The High and the Mighty seems to work on 
formulas - with longer songs but fewer 
ideas.
ntCudCsyw tC igry O9
'op
fjA charismatic 
%v-4prayer 
every 
night at 8 
at Mellon 
^Institute 
QBellefield Ave 
Cl (Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Vh Oakland, Pa. 
i/T call Rege for 
information; 
262-3950.
EARN OVER $950 A MONTH.
AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
ENGINEERING FUTURE.
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $950 a month during your 
junior and senior years just so youd join the company after graduation? Under a 
special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer 
Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your 
junior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduatelevel training that is not available from any other employer.
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences, find 
out more today. And let you career pay off while still in college.
Interviews will be held in the Campus Placement office from 8 a.m.  4 p.m. on October 
29th. Or call 644-6393.
HeyCMII*
party with The Pumper I
Pittsburgh Brewing CompanyPittsburgh, PA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanOctober 26, 1982
photo by Rhoda Funk
Tom Ryan, Hildy discusses a big scoop in Front Page.
Random thoughts on Clash
Drama department hits the 
press with "Front Page"
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry OF
I wish they would fix those stupid speak
ers. Dri\ing me up a wall. I just heard some
one say, When he said they would play a 
love song I thought it would be soft and 
slow. Oh well dearie, you cant always get 
what you want.
Armagideon Time sounds pretty good. 
It sound like Armagideon Time, at least. 
People are acting so insane. Perhaps my 
vision is failing, but I think I just saw a girl 
with pink hair. And theres a mohawk. Dear 
Lord, some people are fanatical. Even the 
guy cm stage is letting /its grow out Extrem
ism gets to be a pain, I guess.
They left Those red lights are sooo 
weird. I guess its their statement after I 
Fought the Law and the Law Won. Finally, 
they come back out. Should I Stay or
Should I Go?' in espanol and inglesi, as he 
said. How English. Theyre really doing it 
well. What a cranking tune. Its a wonder 
some of these people arent hurting 
themselves.
Gone again. Make up your freakin 
minds. Straight to Hell. Good stuff. Its a 
very scary version erf it. I wish hed quit 
propping his head up with his hands while 
hes singing, though. Is it about to fall off, or 
what?
...There go the red lights again. It'll feel 
good to be out of here. I dont suppose I 
could make a personal request  Would 
you please come back sometime when I feel 
better? I just am not in a Clash mood right 
now. Maybe next week or the week after?
Oh well. It \/as pretty good anyway.
By L.G. TROVATO 
Tartan Staffwriter
Its odd writing a newspaper article about 
a show which is about newspaper writers. 
Albeit their writing takes place in Chicago 
in 1928, I felt a certain kinship with the 
people of this play. It ended 
quickly-rfi As brought to life by CMUs
drama department, the charac
ters in Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthurs 
The Front Page were no genteel typists, 
but fast-moving, cigar-chomping, mudslinging, borderline neurotics whod chase 
anything from an ambulance to a skirt in 
order to get a scoop.
And in these talented actors hands, The 
Front Page proved to be as exciting and 
funny a comedy/thriller as it was meant to 
be when it was written fifty-odd years ago.
The plot is a classic. Hildy Johnson, star 
reporter for the Herald Examiner (this was 
in the days when Chicago had eight daily 
papers), has decided to get married, give up 
the frenedc pace of the newspaper world, 
and move on to bigger and better things  
in this case, an advertising job in New York. 
However, his ego cannot resist one last great 
story.
A convicted murderer has escaped from 
jail, and dimbs his way into the press room 
of the Criminal Courts Building on the very 
evening Hildy was to depart with his fian
cee. The hysteria rises quickly as Hildy and 
his boss try to hide the convict from the 
police and their rival reporters (who also 
work in the press room) in order to get their 
capture of the escapee on the front page of 
their newspaper, scooping everyone else.
This production came close to being 
scooped by almost everyone involved in it.
It was an ensemble effort, in the best of that 
tradition. If there was any star of the even, 
ing, it might very well have been the incredj. 
bly realistic set, designed by John B. Wilson 
From the city grime on the windowpane to 
the leak in the vintage water cooler, Wilson 
created a city press room of the 20s so rich in 
detail, it was in itself a work of art.
This amazing environment alone was 
worth the price of admission, and yet was 
heightened to perfection by Christine Reb. 
manns flawless costuming.
The designers gave one so much to look 
at, in fact, that for the first twenty minutes or 
so, I had trouble concentrating on the performances. However, this show was so 
nicely cast, there was no need to worry.
fThe play calls for a cast of twenty-seven, 
all of whom were working at Mach Five 
speed, careening about the set, spewing 
comic lines like so much confetti. Not hav
ing seen a full-length comedy on CMUs 
mainstage in quite some time, this play was 
both a treat and a delight from beginning to 
end.
I simply had no idea the actors here were 
so funny. Vividly directed by Ronald Roston, this production seemed like an elixer 
for these students remarkable talents 
Cheerfully ad-libbing and cutting each 
other up, they provided an enervating even
ing of theatre that left one giddy and 
breathless.
Special mention, however, must go to 
Tom Ryan, who played Hildy Johnson. He 
provided the solid foundation upon whidi 
the comedy erf The Front Page rolled, and 
I hope to see him in important roles in tk 
future.
Great Moments In the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
dram on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have.something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES $25.00
(^atmEMPCCJBTIRSOAKLAND 
Next to Arbys 
681-2202 or 681-2203
Pizza
JUNIOR
SMALL
MEDIUM
LARGE
X-LARGE
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS
Hoagies
PEPPERONI - MUSHROOMS - SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS - ONIONS - ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES - EXTRA CHEESE - 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
1aaR 
M|1 [a"[a7I 
Ia1 La 
Ha:H|| 
[1Ia0
"[MP|| [1Ia0 
Ma3HMII[I 
P|a[1 LII 
[aa
QUARTER POUNDER
Visit Our Bar & Dining Lounge 
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILSJL
: :;]
uni
j
<Free Delivery
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PRECS0N HA#=CUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Business Hours0V V Sundays 2:00 P.M. - 2:00 A.M.
ta O Mon  Te* ' Wed 10:00 A M " 2:00 A MJ Thurs - Fri. - Sat. 10:00 A M. ~ 3:00 A.M.%ip

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE 
ELECTION PETITIONS
Available at Skibo Information desk. Seats open in all colleges. Due 5 p.m. Wed. Nov. 3.
ATTENTION
ALL HEAD OF ORGANIZATIONS
Organizational Survey Forms must be completed and returned to the Skibo Info Desk by 
5:00 PM Tuesday, November 9. Pick them up at the Skibo Info Desk, take a minute to fill 
it out, and return it.
THANK YOU!
The Rules Committee of Student Senate
John Roppo 
521-9533Funded by Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

1
ALCOHOL AWARENESS 
PROGRAM
Thurs. Oct. 28 
Highlander Room
19
'r/% m;ims if
i IV; &V/M Hu. '#/ ! .!l 
Attitudes on Alcohol
Dr. Abe Twersky; Clinical Director 
Dept, of Psychiatry, St. Francis Hospital 
Pittsburgh, PA.
Thurs. Nov.4 
Wherret Room
Thurs. Nov. 11 
Wherret Room
Tues. Nov. 16 
Highlander Room
Drinking and Driving Issues
Vernon Rath, M.E.D.; D.U.I. Coordinator 
St. Francis Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA.
Paul Bethel; Probation Offio r
Allegheny County Probation, Oakland Office
Pittsburgh, PA.
What is Alcoholism? Symptoms 
& Treatment
Sharon Eakes, Director of Therapy 
Gateway Rehabilitation Center
Rd 2 Motfett Run Rd.
Aliquippa, PA.
Alcohol: Special Issues
(Women and drinking, alcoholism & the family, 
dealing with alcoholic friends, alcoholism; gay community ) 
Janet Sheline, Prevention Services Coordinator 
St. Francis Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA.
mVVl PT'T
_4_ 4-
1 I
All Programs 7pm 
Sponsored by Dept, of Student Activities 
Division of Student Affairs and Housing Office
i-i

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 29
leven CMU artists show at Pittsburgh's Plan for Art
CAROLINE TERNER
arton Staffwriter
A show of eleven Camegie-Mellon stuLnt artists opened at the Pittsburgh Plan 
Lr art on Saturday, October 16, from 7:00- 
lOO p.m. The artists are Carol Griffith, BarStork, Holly DeCovny, Resemary 
fialamas, Ann Sherrill, Margaret Bauman, 
iris DePaul, Marlene Novak, Brett Reichjn, Cathy Drew and Stephen A. Henijngs. Aesthetics, the show has some 
ipressive things to say.
In Holly DeCovnys work, the painting 
\wo Italian Boys shows figurative skill as 
[ell as wonderful textural collage. Carol 
Iriffith displays pointalist skill in her 
lightly guache but nevertheless colorful 
impositions. Brett Riechmans Rhino ser|s shows draftsmanship as well as imagina)n and a formidible use of color. Chris 
jpauls small metal compositions (someles mixed media) are wonderfully intrigtng, bordering on surrealism.
Two of the highlights of the show were 
Barbara Storks drawings and Margaret 
Baumans tag pieces. Barbaras The Sight
seer was one of the most interesting draw
ings Ive ever encountered in student work; 
Margarets compositions of fiber and paper 
tags, sometimes translated into metal, were
extremely resourceful, at times reminding 
me of the artist Karen Stollers work. 
Another fabulous piece was Ann Sherrills 
wall of fragments.
Marlene Novak sold a painting and Chris 
DePaul and Margaret Bauman also sold 
pieces.
Some final highlights of the show were 
the well crafted water colors of Stephen 
Hennings, the box constructions with 
sound accompaniment by Rosemary Gialamas, and the under water photographs of 
Cathy Drew.
The show will be up until November 14.
Berkley and DeMille say:
"Gregory's Girl" is cute, but see it anyway
By DeMILLE RECKER and BERK
LEY SCHATZ
Tartan Staffxvriters
Well, Berkeley and DeMille dont usually 
like cute, but Gregorys Girl, directed by Bill 
Forsyth, is a mild exception. The movie is a 
grabbag of delightful details which do not 
lend themselves to our welldefined focus. The trifles caught 
on film are crystalline, memora
ble and true to life.
ir bands: start tuning up
I Get ready, CMU  the Activits Board 
|st Annual Air Band Competition is just 
eeks away. On Saturday, November 13, the 
dbo Ballroom will come alive with the 
funds and looks of those past and present. 
What is an airband? An airband is a 
loup of you and your friends performing 
the music of your favorite stars. Come 
lessed as Diana Ross and the Supremes, the 
lones or the B-52s. Prizes will be awarded 
those judged the best, with the first place 
|inners receiving a tidy $150.
The following rules have been 
Itablished:
4 Entries v/ill be taken on Friday, November 
in the Skibo Grey Matter from noon  5 
In. A $10 deposit is required to guarantee
your original entry and performance. This 
deposit will be refunded after your perfor
mance on November 12.
 Maximum number of entries accepted 
will be 12.
 Performance limit  7 minutes.
 A cassette tape of your 7 minute musical 
selection(s) must be turned in to the Skibo 
Information Desk before 4 p.m. on Friday, 
November 12. Any group not submitting 
their tape by this deadline will forfeit their 
$10 deposit and will not be able to perform 
on November 13.
 All decisions by the judges are final.
Any questions regarding the competition
should be directed to Ed Slosky and Judy 
Ivanschultz, c/o Skibo Information Desk.
However, this movie does not add up to 
the sum of its parts.
The film deals with the first and overpow
ering adolescent crush of the title character, 
Gregory (Gordon John Sinclair). The object 
of his desire is his replacement on the soccer 
team, Dorothy, (yes, shes a girl.)
Gregorys character is a conglomerauon 
of comic quirks. His friends and teachers 
are stock characters which can be found in 
any adolescent comedy. The movie uses 
these characters, each with their longrunning funny trait, to build quite a few 
amusing scenes.
The scene in which the headmaster tickles 
the ivories with a mundane tune and shoos 
his charges away with an innuendo-charged 
Off you go, you small boys! is worth a 
chuckle.
The movie even makes good scatalogical 
use of its set when it takes us into the boys 
bathroom of the local school. Entrepreneurs 
of baked goods and photos mingle with 
smokers, gamblers and tinklers. (Berkeley 
and DeMille got a kick out of it, anywav )
Gregorys younger sister, Madelaine (Alli
son Forester) lends some of the movies 
scenes an especially charming warmth. She 
well-personifies the wise litde sister and
some of the moments she shoves with Gre
gory are the films best.
Gregory's Girl is an endearing film that 
charms in pieces but never as a coherent 
whole. The film is a good effort but lacks the 
thread that would tie together the individual 
scenes. Gregorys Girl is tough to dislike 
because it has no pretensions to being any
thing other from what it is: a comic portrait 
of adolescent love.
(Chorus girls drawn 
by Dinty Moore)
Rating: 2Vi beauties.
Iris' radio rock
continued from page 25
The tide track, The High and the 
Mighty and Youre Gonna Miss Me are 
two mediocre songs characterized by heavy 
guitar chords and beating drums with sense
less, but at least not sickening, lyrics. By far 
the best material found on the album is 
This Time it Must be Love.
The High and the Mighty is a respectably 
good album, but for anyone looking for a 
rough and ready hard-rock album, beware - 
you may be hearing some of these songs at 
your Friday night dance.
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order 2 column 
inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submission 
charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for I -20 words, $4.00 for 20-50 words, $8.00 for more 
than 50 words.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
[ANNOUNCEMENTS & EVENTS
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Deadline: Friday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
I ~or Further information, contact Business Manager Louise Crocoll
isWdCyWW pts,W 1syWwgc hF42e44 i-b1ps,Wwgc h442844 i-bW'ddress: Box 17 Schenley Park/Skibo 50 & 52 
hone: 578-2111 
4 hour answering machine: 578-2113
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE 
for 19 October 1982
Among the various and sundry occurences at the meeting, Dean 
Brad Walter reported to Senate that he never intended to mislead 
students as to the decision making processes surrounding the 
decision to proceed with the IBM contract. He stressed he feels 
there are more decisions to be made that students will be able to 
impact. There will be a chance on November 2, at 4:30, to discuss 
this further. He regretted that UPI Britain knew about the deci
sion prior to some students .
SGP Solano reported and stressed importance of Tuition Rally 
to be held October 29 at 4:15 p. m. All students are encouraged to 
attend! ! ! An amended form of the alcohol policy issued by Presi
dent Cyert was endorsed; it urged that any Activities Fee paying 
students not be excluded from any activities that utilize activ
ities fee moneys, if serving alcohol, if they are 21 plus.
Explorers Club and Thistle received various fundings and sub
sidies via hearing of the Finance Committee and Senate approval.
New Business saw a motion from Senator Stahl that essentially 
protested the misinformed level of the Student Body regarding 
computing advances and contracts; it urged that no students be 
forced by administrative fiat to purchase such items. Debate 
focused pro and con on this issue . Some senators opposed the bill 
as hasty and mis informed; others urged this as an important setp. 
It was passed as amended by a roll call vote, 15-7.
Student Senate will meet next Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the High
lander Room. All students are encouraged to show up at the meet
ing; you can speak on any issue during Audience Participation.
Respectfully submitted, 
Ralph M. Sherman 
Secretary of Student Senate
1

---------------------------------------------------

Clip this ad Send it to dad Get yourself an off-campus pad
Now it's easy at Calais Village 
Condominium. Because weve devel
oped a plan that, in conjunction with 
the Economic Recovery Act of 1981, 
makes it possible for buyers of con
dominiums to create tax losses when 
renting those condominiums to rela
tives or co-owners.
The plan also permits acceler
ated depreciation, which allows the 
owner of a rental property to write 
off its value in 15 years instead of
25 to 40 years. That means a kingsize annual tax deduction for your 
parents. And best of all. a beautiful 
apartment home for you at Calais 
Village featuring:
 Heated outdoor swimming pool 
with adjoining bathhouse  Saunas
all
10 am to 7 pm Monday 
. 10 am to 6 pm Saturday, and 11 am
BC
 Lighted tennis court  Private 
heated indoor parking  Comfort
ably furnished entertainment 
rooms with wide-screen TV, custom 
made billiard table, card tables, and 
cocktail bar  Picnic and barbeque 
areas  Commuter transportation at 
your front door
So what are you waiting for? Now. 
instead of asking for more money, 
you can write home and tell your 
parents how to get in on some major 
tax and equity benefits.
C ONDOMIMIM
595 Calais Drive. Pittsburgh. PA 15237 
Telephone: (412) 367-0777
d,ynudtCW Rt,up tC Ptsuy l9- igWW :dCyW TAg3g [ptiidCr 
HyCuy, tCut MdrpAgCw Ptgw vsWu )y?t,y upy Sguy, utSy,.- 
yuu tC MdrpAgCw ut [Atti Ptgwyuu tC [Atti Ptgw ut 
HgAgdW ,djytAAtS WddvCW ut upy [gAyW HyCuy,-
Presented )j BJF Development. Inc. on behalf of 
the Prudential Insurance Company 
of America

---------------------------------------------------

klausings' troops win a pair and tie for first
ast second T.D. 
t?eats Presidents
ALLAN REKNIT
jrtan Staffwriter
Hopeless. A conference championship 
id a play-off berth were seemingly lost. 
The agressive Washington and Jefferson 
residents and their electrified homecoming 
>wd anxiously chewed at the bit. A mere 
linute and forty-two seconds separated 
[em from a stunning upset victory over the 
siting Camegie-Mellon Tartans. With the 
ill on their own seven yardline and on the 
[ort end of a 12-7 score CMUs season 
leed appeared prematurely over.
Inspired by co-captain/linebacker Lee 
Brketic, an intense CMU defense had forced 
|W&rJ punt by stopping the Prexies in a 
icial third down and three situation.
terback Bill Kiselick then masterfully 
[gineered a 93 yard, 4 play touchdown 
ive which took all of 35 seconds to 
Implete.
CMUs offense began to click when Wide 
reiver Mark Leposky snatched Kiselicks 
1st pass for a twenty-three yard gain. Withit huddling the offense set itself, then Tarcenter Scott Kasunick snapped the ball 
| Kiselick who darted a 22-yarder across the 
jiddle to Split End Danny Fry. Needing to 
>p the clock Kiselick hit Fry, once again, 
the sideline; thus enabling the senior 
lit end to skirt out of bounds after gaining
(78) Dale Kording, on the ground, and (72) Fran Diegleman converge on Bethany Q.B. Dave 
McCaughey.
six yards.
On the next play Kiselick spotted Randy 
Dacanal behind the W&J secondary, and, 
while receiving beautiful pass protection 
from his interior line, dropped a 42 yard 
touchdown bomb on W&Js homecoming 
festivities.
W&J kept the Tartan offense out of the 
game with its ball control running game.
Denny Strosko scored early in the second 
quarter for the Presidents and was piling up 
yardage on W&Js time consuming posses
sions until CMU Defensive Back Brian 
Zagorac popped Strosko, forcing his remo
val from the remainder of the game.
In the first half CMU took a paltry 18 
snaps from center yet managed to get on the 
ontinued tC igry FF
CMU's aerial show deflates Bethany
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Camegie-Mellon, Hiram, Case Reserve, 
and the Bethany Bisons were all tied for first 
place. It was to be one of the most important 
games of the season. The Tartans were a 
mere one point favorite. .After going down 
five of the last six games to CMU, Bethany 
was not about to let go of its bid for first 
place. The Tartans had averaged 373.3 yards 
per game, more than any other PAC team. 
But the Bisons had allowed only 202.8 yards, 
the stingiest defense in the PAC.
Bethany came looking for blood. The 
Bison I-formation, Dallas Cowboys style 
offense wasted no time scoring seven points 
on a three yard plunge by running back 
Datwin Short.
Then the Bison defense took over, frus
trating the CMU offense. Most of the first 
quarter was spent on the Tartan end of the 
field.
Finally, the Tartans scored a field goal 
after being stopped on a touchdown drive. It 
did not appear to make much difference, 
though. The Bisons shot-gun attack held 
CMU at bay while their defence refused to 
allow yardage.
Then CMU made a discovery by the name 
of Joe Yasalani. Yasalani, who had averaged 
continued on igry FF
ennis smashes PWC records; sweeps all 5 matches
PAULINE KRAMER
irtan Assistant Features Editor 
; Camegie-Mellonswomens tennis team 
[erally played its way into the history 
)ks at the PWC Tournament a little over 
Iweek ago.
I For the first time in the 5-year existence of 
|e tournament, one team swept every title. 
vlU can now rightfully boast that it has 
|e best team in Pennwood West ConMence III, containing the top three singles 
payers and two doubles teams. Coach Mark 
ish, who worked diligently during the sea|n with every team member, said a bit numh Im pleasantly surprised that the score 
is 35-0. Its also fantastic that I only have 
^Jo people graduating.
^Friday the 16th was a raw, windy and 
Jcasionally drizzly day. When the team left 
16:30 in the morning, the temperature Im
ped in the upper forties; the mercury 
i t transcend the mid-50s mark all day.
Coach Bush and his seven starters reached 
host California State by eight oclock for the 
seeding meeting. CMU clinched a great 
draw and secured four out of five possible # 1 
seeds. Since the top seeds received first-round 
byes, the girls spent most of the morning 
scouting perspective opponents.
By the time the second round (semi-finals) 
started, it was past noon, but the Tartans 
were eager to play. During the final week of 
practice, after completing the season with a 
phenomenal record of 28-2 (five points for 
each of the six conference matches), the girls 
were getting increasingly excited about the 
possibility of capturing all five titles. CMU 
took the courts and attacked the ball with a 
zealous fervor, determined not to let their 
undefeated season slip by.
After eliminating their semi-final oppo
nents, the girls were in the positions that 
they dreamed about all week. All they had to 
do was channel those long practice hours
if
%. ffMfc'f*
'if
F isss #
-

photo l>\ ehrck
der the direction of Coach Marie Bush, the 1982 womens tennis team made history 
e over a week ago by capturing every title in the PWC'. Tournament: first. second 
les and first and second doubles.
Yonish
just a 
, third
into one last match . . . and win.
At first singles, co-captain Bridget Kyne 
wrapped herself up in a first set thriller. Her 
opponent from Washington and Jefferson 
offered stiffer competition than she had dur
ing the regular season; Bridget was taken a 
bit by surprise and suddenly found herself 
playing a tiebreaker. Fortunately, she was 
victorious, maintained a firm grasp on her 
momentum and won the second set, 6-4. 
Bridget emerged as the best tennis player in 
the conference but was thankful that the 
anxiety had finally come to an end. She 
revealed after her match that, If I had lost 
the first set, I would have been in trouble. I 
couldnt have gone three sets.
At second singles was Andrea Fabrega, 
who won the conference title last year play
ing third singles. Andrea was the only CMU 
player who didnt receive a first seed; as a 
result, she had to play in the first round. 
Playing this extra match didnt faze her 
whatsoever.
The flowing adrenaline combined with 
her stamina to provide her with the neces
sary energy to propel her through the final 
round and what turned out to be a long 3-set 
match. This last round bout with the first 
seed, a tough freshman from W&J, was the 
thriller-of-the-day. As the last match was 
being played, teammates, coaches and 
friends paid close attention.
They split the first two sets by the same 
score, 6-4, but Andrea started the third set 
with a definite mental advantage: her team
mates were wildly cheering her on and she 
didnt have the pressure of protecting a #1 
seed. The W&J freshman won just two 
games before CMUs junior captured the 
remaining four games as well as the second 
singles title. Needless to say, the girls practi
cally went beserk.
Senior Brenda Goldstein was especially 
psyched for her conference match because it 
was her last shot at a college title. She, as 
well as Andrea, split the first two sets by the 
same score, 6-1. Brenda could not run away 
with the match as second singles did, but she 
played very steadily and returned just about
everything that landed on her side of the net. 
Brendas persistence wore out the Chatham 
player and she finally won the third singles 
crown winning the third set at 7-5.
First doubles were first to finish, but their 
match was by no means easy. Their oppo
nents from W&J had two other teammates 
in the finals. They had just as much of a shot 
at the team title as CMU, and just as much 
incentive.
However, Liza Reed and co-captain Pau
line Kramer were intent on retaining last 
years title at first doubles and immediately 
grabbed a first set lead. W&J was not about 
to relinquish the match though, especially 
after easily disposing of their first and 
second round opponents. The ensuing 
games seesawed back and forth, but CMU 
was able to protect their lead and took the 
first set, 6-4. The Tartans started off strong 
in the second set, but their opponents hung 
right in and forced Liza and Pauline into a 
tiebreaker, a situation in which the two have 
been repeatedly successful. Fortunately, his
tory repeated itself and the girls won the 
tiebreaker and recaptured their first doubles 
title.
Second doubles, featuring Beth Dough
erty and Laurie Arendas (who finished 
second in the same category last year with a 
different partner), had the easiest match of 
all, losing just one game in the finals against 
Seton Hill. Laurie and Beth didnt have too 
much competition all season at #2 doubles;
they clearly have the ability to soundly 
defeat most of the top doubles teams in the 
conference. The girls captured the second 
doubles title after dropping a game in the 
first set and holding their opponents score
less in the second.
As CMU was methodically working 
towards the unprecedented sweep, other 
coaches were openly praising the teams 
strong solidity and enthusiastic spirit. 
Coach Bush, while driving home after the 
victory, said, I think this is the most solid 
team Ive seen.

---------------------------------------------------

8:00 pm 
November 4, 
Skibo Ballroom
Scotch 'N Soda 
presents
Tickets on sale at the Skibo Information Desk 
$3.50 General Admission; $2.50 w/CMU ID

---------------------------------------------------

October 26, 1982The TartanPage 33
DaCanal's catch wins it
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry Fl
scoreboard via a Joe Vasalani two yard run 
with 3:34 left in the second quarter. Rob 
Fleischman added the extra point.
Following Mike OShips punt the Presi
dents took control of the ball on the Tartan 
35 yardline by virtue of a fifteen yard miscon
duct penalty against CMU early in the 
fourth quarter. Don Edwards sprinted 
around the end from five yards out to make 
the score 12-7 in favor of W8cJ. The Presi
dents two point conversion attempt proved
futile as Brian Chorbas pass fell harmlessly 
untouched in the end zone.
Dacanals touchdown catch put the Tar
tans on top 13-12 with 1:07 left to play. Joe 
Vasalani added two points on a plunge to 
end the days scoring. CMU Defensive Back
Tim Griffith ensured Head Coach Chuck 
Klausings 100th collegiate victory by pick
ing off Brian Chorbas pass on the Tartan 35 
yardline and returning it twenty yards.
Mramour's kick lifts CMU
WRCT 88.3 FM
broadcasts each week the
BBC COLLEGE 
CONCERT HOUR
Wed. 9 pm and 
Sat. midnight
This week: STEEL PULSE
(intense reggae)
Check each weeks TARTAN classified 
section for more WRCT specials and 
features.
Call 578-2883 or 621-WRCT
Running Back Joe Vasalani had a spectacular day (or Tartans with a Touch Down plunge.
IKA takes Majors crown
led by Quarterback Jim Hay4 T.D. passes, soundly defeated 
34-0 in the Intramural Majors Footfinal. Keith Block helped the defensive 
by intercepting a pass and running it 
for a T.D. The Intermediate tide was 
by Y. Uspedes while Crash Crew beat 
[cA for the Minors Crown.
other sports, the Computer Science 
im captured the 1982 Cross Country meet 
t Thursday. Even though Pi Lams Carl 
10:33, and Doug Grauel, 10:39, 
Lured 1st and 2nd places respectively, the 
[ckers from Wean Hall 5216 captured pla4 through 7 to take the tide. Ann Kehre 
bk the Womens title with a time of 14:43. 
Champions were also crowned elsewhere. 
Tennis, GSIA defeated the Photons 2 to 1 
[take the 1982 team tide. Co-Rec Volley; 
found Ustalar beating TX-A to take the
Majors, TX-B defeating Cherwanick for the 
Intermediate tide, and 7&7 spiking Team X 
for the Minors crown.
Bowling, with Comm. Dave Hecht x2259, 
began Sat Oct 25th at the Strand Alleys 
Please pay all fees to Strand Alleys.
Racquetball and Team Volleyball sche
dules are out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. Please report winning scores to the 
IM office. Volleyball standards should be 
brought to the far end of the gym after the 
last match. Table Tennis needs a Comm.
A very important Soccer rules clinic will 
be held Tuesday October 26th 4:30 p.m. in 
Thisde Hall. Each team must have a team 
member at this meeting. Matches will begin 
Oct. 27. No CMU varsity player can play IM 
Soccer.
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry Fl
less than 18 yards per game previously, was 
soon eaung up Tech Field like a bulldozer. 
Before the first half was over the junior run
ning back had pounded out 44 yards includ
ing a one yard touchdown run, making the 
score 9-7. But Bethany was not going to give 
up, and after missing the extra point, the 
Bisons were only a field goal away from the 
lead.
But while the Bison defense was preoccu
pied with finding a way to stop Vasalani, 
quarterback Bill Kiselick took to the air, 
using all four of his top 20 in the PAC 
receivers. Just before the two minute warn
ing, Kiselick got his Tartans to the one yard 
line, setting up a touchdown plunge by run
ning back Gerard Sansosti, But CMU was 
not going to let the Bisons sneak by them 
with a one point, field goal win. So Kiselick 
rolled out for the two point conversion.
The Bisons went to their two minute 
offense, using a forward pitch-pass attempt 
play, but the Tartans swarmed on the 
carrier.
The half ended with CMU leading 17-7. 
But the Bisons were a different team in the
/The next board meeting willbe on Nov.__ send half. After Vasalani had gotten CMU 
4th at 1:00 p.m. down to the one yard line, a clip was called
on CMU. A fifteen yard drop was all the 
Bison defense needed. They stopped the 
Tartans cold. CMU had to setde for three 
points, making the score 20-7.
The Bisons were fired up. The Bethany 
sidelines were yelling, the coaches began 
throwing things, and their offense racked up 
seven points on a five yard reception by 
running back Glen Simon.
But CMU was not going to let their 20-14 
lead slip. They too became rowdy. Soon 
both sides were going for blood. 120 yards of 
penalties were exchanged in the final 11 
minutes of the game, including three 
unsportsmanlike conduct calls and a rough
ing the kicker call.
The Bisons tried to keep CMU off balance 
with flea flickers and double reverse plays, 
but most of the time they only lost yardage.
The Tartans, meanwhile, were not doing 
any better. They drove down to around the 
Bison twenty yard line on Kiselicks arm, 
only to miss a field goal attempt. A rough
ing the kicker call gave the Tartans a first 
down, though. However, the Tartans failed 
to capitalize on it, missing a second field 
goal attempt.
Hellbent on InsanityThe best college humor of the 70s and a smattering from the 1980s. On sale now
$"5 -emu focckstcre*
IN BAKER HALL
** RCT
swnwl h K2I-\VR<T or ">7K-'JKK$ 88 3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 34The TartanOctober 26, 1982Ruggers visit West Point and take on Cadets
The Rugby team had an even tougher time playing Army.photo by John Stilwell
By ERAN MAROM and CARL SELETZ
Tartan Staffivriter
A couple of weeks ago, the CMU Rugby 
Club opened its season against the defend
ing national champions, Army, at West 
Point, New York.
After a seven hour bus ride they arrived on 
the beautiful campus and were treated to a 
brunch and a tour of the Academy. This 
paticular week-end was West Points home
coming so the club enjoyed a morning of 
parades and celebrations which was cli
maxed by the Army vs. Harvard football 
game.
The Rugby matches took place after the 
football game. The two CMU teams played 
two Army teams simultaneously, and on 
adjacent fields. The CMU ruggers, with 
only one season of experience behind them, 
couldnt match the skills of the highly
trained Army team which was coached by 
British Royal Marine officer. Howey* 
what CMU lacked in experience, they 
up in determination. One cadet said aftertl 
game, You guys hit us harder than 
team we play.
Overall, the matches were rough k 
clean, and very few penalties were award 
to either team. Aside from a lot of bruise 
there was only one major injury to eith 
CMU team. Though both Tartan teamslo 
their matches, the experience they gained) 
competing against the national champi 
will play a major role in the future of tt 
CMU Rugby Club.
As is traditional in rugby, the day end) 
with both Army and CMU ruggers joined 
a party which turned out to be even 
than expected.
Harriers run past several foes in Cleveland
By FRANK MATOUSEK als, the CMU cross country team remains Case Western Reserve University, John CarTartan staffivriter calm, cool, and victorious. This time the roll University, Thiel College, and YoungAs the season progresses towards a climacTartans have a multitude erf wins to report: stown State University in a quintangular*
tic finsh at the PACs, regionals, and nationon Saturday, October 9th, the Tartans beat meet in Cleveland, and on Octover 16th,
Your
msmmdoesqt surprise us...
At TRW it's what we're ail about.
We've created an environment 
encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual 
professional goals.
So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach 
to your technical growth. An 
approach that includes .
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking.
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas.
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement.
A broad spectrum of challenging 
projects to choose from --
Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems, 
communications spacecraft and 
alternative energy sources, to 
scientific satellites, high energy 
lasers and microelectronics.
CMU finished second in the West Virgii 
University Invitational.
The meet in Cleveland, held in Fon 
Hills Park, was a chance for some of 
usual B team runners to run in a p 
with the usual "A team runners, since son 
of the top runners took the weekend off 
rest. This really helped the teams attitude 
they beat Case Western Reserve by a score 
15-49 (lowest score wins), and shut out Jol 
Carroll, Thiel, and Younstown State 
score of a shut out is 15-50). CMU did this 
taking first, second, third, fourth, fifth, 
enth, and eighth places.
Coach Gary Meckley said that its imp 
tant to beat conference teams in this mam 
so close to the conference championshi] 
because it kind of demoralizes them. Tl 
type of win can damage the other teai 
psychologically so that they race a 
each other in the conference meet, and rea 
dont even tty to beat CMU.
And you'll appreciate the 
opportunity to see these 
projects to completion.
In the long run we think 
you'll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 
the uniqueness in you.
TRW will be on campus 11/18, 19
hiring graduates in most Engi
neering and Scientific disciplines 
at all degree levels.
See your Placement Office for 
more information.
College Relations
TRW Electronics and Defense
Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. CM
One Space Park
Redondo Beach, CA 90278
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
Marcelle's Typing Service
Lytpaduatw as cgCh 
'CgptwwasS
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371 -3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
PREGNANT? can BeB
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
9-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TT3
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
a non-profit organization

---------------------------------------------------

inouncements.October 26, 1982The TartanPage 35
lassifieds
ling dne *n ^omeaccurate and dependa|$1 00 a page. Must be legible. 829-1656.
ICERS  New 8c uncrated Champion 
3.00; Acme $120.00. 521-9555.
A PHILIP PELUSI HAIRCUT FOR
)! Register for haircutting sessions. Call 
L nearest you for information and registraI Squirrel Hill 521-1200; Bank Center 261- 
); Century III Mall 655-1940; Village Square
|l 833-6770.
; SALE: Cello 8c Bow $250 Kustom 250 Bass 
Lj |225. Call Chris 683-0431 or 441-2989. Keep
Pg!
liable student wanted: Free room 8c board in 
iange for babysitting/light housekeeping. 
|st love children 8c dogs. Flexible personality 8c 
iule needed. Call 682-1558.
fessional typing/word processing: Thesis, 
luscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters, 
|(MLA  APA 8c Turabian strongly oberved.) 
Ige variety of typefaces and 24 hour service 
liable. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfaction
ran teed.
Iloween Accessories masks, wigs, noses, 
\, make-up, wings, blood, scars, beards, you 
be it, weve got it! Free over 100 costume 
Childsplay 650 Washington Road, Mt. 
ion, 343-5620. Theatre department notelituuonal discount available.
ited: models for figure and glamour photoshy. Possible publication. Please send picture 
jssible. Write P.O. Box 10160, Pittsburgh,
>rove your grades! Research catalog 306 
es 10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097C 
Angles, CA 90025 (213) 477-8226.
I tar Lessons Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
|U music student. !4 hr.$6; 1 hr.$10. Call 
ef Toth  683-7331.
fessional typing and word processing. Fast, 
pent-,- ressonable."  Speachesy  manuscripts;
rch papers, term papers. 24 hr. service. Satislon Guaranteed. For best results call Mrs. 
It. 371-3657.
neral
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, November 8, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
Bnai Brith Hillel Activities
Friday, October 29 8:30 p.m. TGIS Party 
(Thank God its Shabbat). Stop by and make 
Hillel your first party this Friday night. Kiddush 
and hors deuvres will be served. Hillel House, 
133 Margaret Morrison Apartments.
WRCT (88.3 FM) features
... Wed. (9 p.m.) Oct. 27 and Sat. (mid.) Oct. 30: 
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR Steel 
Pulse recorded live in concert 
... everyday (noon, 7 p.m., mid.): THE NEWS 
BLIMP A look at todays world 
...everyday (8 a.m., 11p.m.): RADIO
CALENDAR CONCERT HOUR LIST 
Pittsburgh concerts coming up in the next 3 
weeks
...every Friday (6-9 p.m.): REGGAE on WRCT
A nondenominational Bible discussion group
meets every Monday evening at 9, in Room 39, 
Skibo. Come and bring a friend.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30-3:30, BH 
260.
The CMU Roman Catholic Chaplain has an
undergraduate fellowship which meets every 
Wednesday at 6:00 at the Oratory. Mass, free 
buffet dinner and discussion. Meet Andy and Pat 
at Tech House at 5:30 to wald up or call 621-2911 
for info.
Gateway Christian Fellowship is holding weekly 
interdenominational bible studies. The womens 
bible study meets on Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. in 
Morewood 1-C-l. The mens bible study is held 
on Wednesdays at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of 
Skibo in rm. 39 (chapel). All are invited to share 
in spirit-filled fellowship and the joy of knowing 
God. For more information call 682-7374.
events
An exhibit of new works by Pittsburgh photo
graphers Seth Dickerman, Tim Fabian and 
Robert Pointon opens Saturday, October 30 at 
Blatent Image Gallery in Oakland. Recent 
Works contains all new black and white works by 
the three gallery members and represents their 
continuing work in the various areas of photo
graphy: Dickerman, motion photography; 
Fabian, photograms; and Pointon, graphic ever
yday life.
The Pittsburgh Film Makers will hold a benefit 
screening of Performance on Saturday, 
November 13 at 10 pm with proceeds going to 
Blatent Image Gallery. Performance, a film by 
Nicholas Roeg, stars James Fox and Mick 
Jagger. Direcdy following the film at 12 pm, 
local band The Five will perform at the Film 
Makers Gallery. The Pittsburgh Film Makers is 
located on Oakland Avenue.
H&SS Film Series: Richard III Produced, 
directed and starring Sir Laurence Olivier, 
Richard III constantly intrigues the eye and 
delights the ear. (Saturday Review) Olivier 
created a masterpiece that proved his contention 
that great Shakespeare can be brought to the 
screen as great entertainment. Sponsored by the 
Office of the Dean, College of H8cSS. 1955; 155 
minutes; color. Wednesday, November 3; 3:30 
p.m.; Hunt Library Multi-Purpose Room.JOE FRESHMAN
Join the Academic Bag Ladies over a meal at the 
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland, Thurs., November 4 from 12-1 p.m. or 
4-6 p.m. Low cost meals available from 11:30- 
1:15 or bring a bag meal. Well set further days 
and times. For more information call 682-6886
Motel Hell/The Haunting These classic Hallo
ween thrillers provide the usual scare tactics, 
screams and chills. These old classics are guaran
teed to get you in the proper mood for the upcom
ing weekend. October 29 at 6, 8, 10 and 12.
Forbes Gallery show, Architecture and Integrity: 
A Juried Architecture Show, October 26-30. 
Opens Tuesday, Oct. 26, 7-9 p.m. Gallery hours: 
Wed.-Sat. 11 a.m.-6 p.m. The Gallery is located at 
5200 Forbes Avenue, 578-2081.
San Antonio poet, Naomi Shihab Nye will make 
her second appearance at the International Poe
try Forum on Wednesday, November 3 at 8:00 
p.m. in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Ms. Nye will read 
poems from her books, Different Ways to Pray 
and Hugging the Jukebox, as well as sing songs 
that she composed with guitar accompaniment.
For more information on Naomi Shihab Nye 
and/or tickets for her reading, contact the Inter
national Poetry Forum, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, 15213. Phone 621-9893.
The Camegie-Mellon University Chamber 
Orchestra, under the direction of Kypros Markou, will present a concert at 8 p.m., Sunday, Oct. 
31 in the Alumni Concert Hall in the College erf 
Fine Arts at CMU.
The concert will open with the First Branden
burg Concerto by J. S. Bach, scored for string 
orchestra and solo violin, oboe, horn and bassoo. 
The program will also include Stravinskys Octet 
for Wind Instruments and Beethovens Sym
phony No.2.
The concert is open to the public without 
charge.
By Mark Levine
ils Orthodox Christian Fellowship will 
re the following events this week: Thursday, 
28, Bible Study with Dr. Henein, Gospel of 
atthew, 7:30-8:30 p.m., Skibo 45; Saturday, 
30, Vespers Liturgy, 6:30 p.m., Skibo 
I pel, Room 39; Sunday, Oct. 31, Divine 
B rgy, 10:15 a.m., Skibo Chapel, Room 39. All
 welcome. For additional information, call 
Hier Alexander at 363-6752.
bOJCKRS
2236 CnURRY *VNU prcxssuRCh. pa. 152.17
An old-time shop 
where nice old books 
are bought, sold, appraised, 
searched for, and appreciated.
Browsers welcome.
52J-0249
YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON
xsCdt,2cyg, i,tr,gb' :tWur,gwsguy wdiAtbgW|Cy2cyg, gWuy,TW 
wyr,yyW gCw PyWyg,np tiit,usCdudyW dC upy WtndgA WndyCnyW g,y t??y,yw 
gu upy tCwtC [npttA t? IntCtbdnW gCw :tAdudngA [ndyCny1py Sdwy ,gCry tA Ws)VynuW dCnAswyW
anntsCudCr q dCgCny' anusg,dgA [ndyCny aCup,titAtrc' LsWdCyWW [uswdyWIntCtbdnW IntCtbyu,dnWIntCtbdn MdWut,cIs,tiygC [uswdyW7ytr,gipc7tjy,CbyCuCwsWu,dgA PyAgudtCW' Cuy,CgudtCgA MdWut,cCuy,CgudtCgA 
PyAgudtCWtSgCgrybyCu [ndyCny|iy,gudtCgA PyWyg,np:pdAtWtipc:AgCCdCr [uswdyW:tisAgudtC [uswdyW:tAdudnW' [yg "Wy :tAdnc' [tndgA 
awbdCdWu,gudtC' [tndgA Jt,( [tndtAtrc' [tndgA :WcnptAtrc' [ugudWudngA tCw 
gupybgudngA [ndyCnyW' [cWuybW aCgAcWdW
Application blank* lionAdmission Rtfiitror, l.S.f.. Houghton Stroot. London WC2. tftftend oall itolo wKothor junior y oar or postprodoot*
[I
tCwtC [npttA t? )ntCtbdnW gCw :tAdudngd [ndyCny
CALI 378-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 36The TartanOctober 26, 1982
Robin Williams' show combines comedy and commentary
ntCudCsyw ?,tb igry OF
Then he touched close to home on his 
own controversial turn of events. After plac
ing a copy of the National Enquirer in his 
cats litter box, the cat wouldnt step into the 
box, and looking up at Williams said, 
Why? Its redundant!
Only for a split second did the audience 
catch a glimpse of the true Williams; the 
hilarious but wise Shakesperian fool with 
the tender heart. With enormous pride he 
announced to the packed theatre that he was 
going to be a father, and delivered a scene of 
his son growing up to become a scientist. 
Williams closed this deeply driven sketch 
with a reconciliation between the old, 
drunken comedian father and the scientist 
son, playing both parts with incredible 
realism.
The social commentary came during Wil
liams performance of an old, toothless, 
comer newspaper vendor speaking to Willi
ams about his gut feelings. In his old mans 
voice Williams discussed how Alber Ein
stein, a man whose lights were always on,
would be terribly saddened if he knew what 
society was doing to his scientific work.
With the likes of Christopher Reeve, Patti 
LuPone and Kevin Kline as classmates, Wil
liams studied acting under John Houseman 
at the Julliard School. Although his perfor
mance in The World According To Garp 
received lukewarm reviews, it is his adept
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffivriirr
Last year, I read The Hitchhikers 
Guide to the Galaxy, then the sequel, 
The Restaurant at the End of the Uninow the last of the series: Life, 
the Universe, and Everything. 
Maybe Im getting crotchety 
in my old age; I didnt like this 
one much either. Douglas 
Adams first two books were filled with 
bizarre, Monty-Pythonian stunts that 
had me rolling. Here, he begins to take 
his characters seriously. Thats not wise,
acting that makes him stand out from his 
humorous peers.
Williams closed his show of brutally hon
est one-man lunacy playing harmonica on a 
number with John Sebastian, his opening 
act.
Chances are that one will rarely be able to 
view Williams performing in the cozy
considering the casts hes assembled.
You see, in the first two books, Arthur 
Dent, boring Englishman whose house is 
being torn down for a bypass, meets one 
Ford Perfect, roving contributor to the 
Hitchhikers Guide. Perfect saves Dent 
from the end of the world; the planet is 
being removed to make way for a bypass, 
you see. . . .
Now, Life, etc. has a lot going for it. 
Adams kept the second book as fastmoving, bizarre and irreverrent as the 
first. The third, however, takes itself
comedy clubs he works best. The intirn; 
interaction of those performances wassor( 
missed at the 3000-seat Stanley, but vj 
every laugh his joy expanded to more rov 
and he unified the audience in one K 
laughter upon dubbing the dome ceiling 
the Stanley theatre, The Sistine Chaj 
done by Fredericks of Hollywood.
seriously. Dent isnt in shock from| 
sudden changes anymore, he just seem 
little catatonic. Beeblebrox, (who on 
told a six-foot pink dragonfly that heg 
weirder things than her in his breakfj 
cereal), now sits quietly and comtei 
plates the universe.
And thats what Adams does with t 
whole book. From a wild, goofy satii 
wes wrung out most of the humor ai 
substituted introspection. If I Wa 
introspection, Ill read more Phi 
Wylie; for humor, Im not going tobi 
any more of Doug Adams.
Adams' sequel takes itself too seriously
verse, and
Before We Put You In Charge Of The Worlds Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We Put You Through The Worlds Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training.
It takes more than 16 
months of intensive 
training to become a 
fully qualified officer in 
the Nuclear Navy. You 
begin with four months 
of leadership training.
Then as a Navy officer 
you get a full year of 
graduate-level training 
unavailable anywhere else at any price.
Navy training is based on more than 
1900 reactor-years of experience. Right 
now the Navy operates over half the 
nuclear reactors in America. And the 
Navys nuclear equipment is the most 
sophisticated in the world. Thats why 
your Navy training is and must be the 
most sophisticated in the world.
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, 
you have decision-making authority 
immediately. You get important manage
ment responsibility 
fast. Because in the 
Navy, as your knowl
edge grows, so does 
your responsibility.
Your training and 
experience place you 
among the countrys 
most qualified profes
sionals. (No surprise
that most of the men 
who operate the 
reactors in private 
industry started in the 
Nuclear Navy.)
It takes more time 
and more effort to 
become an officer in the 
Nuclear Navy. But the 
rewards are greater, too.
The rewards can begin as early as 
your junior year in college. Qualify, and 
the Navy will pay you approximately 
$1000/month while you finish school.
After four years, with regular 
promotions and salary increases, you can 
be earning as much as $37,400. Thats on 
top of a benefits package that includes 
medical and dental care, and 30 days 
vacation earned every year. More 
responsibility, more money, more future. 
So, if youre majoring in math,
engineering or the 
physical sciences, and 
you want to know more 
about a future in 
nuclear power, fill in 
the coupon.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is an opportunity 
like no other in the 
world.
L
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 214
INFORMATION CENTER 
PO. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. (0N )
First (Please Print! Last
Address____________________________________Apt. #____________
City____________________________State________________Zip_______
Age______________tCollege/University________________________
tYear in College______________________*GPA___________________
AM ajor/Minor___________________________________________________
I'hone Number___________________________
(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This is (or general recruitment information. You do not have to 
furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we 
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify.
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
