University announces shift in Housing policies
Dalton to leave; 
closer ties with 
Res. Life foreseen
by Jim Ralsom
Director of Housing Gerald Dalton, des
pite praises from his superiors, was asked 
last week to step down from his position by 
the end of June. Oscar Mayer, the Director of 
Auxiliary Services and Daltons immediate 
supervisor, said that, Student dissatisfac
tion weighed heavily on the decision. 
Dalton will retain all of his current 
responsibilities until the end of June.
Dalton lost the support of the adminis
tration and the students, Mayer explained, 
which created a situation which was affect
ing his job satisfaction and wasnt doing his 
career any real good.
In the many operating elements of his 
job, Dalton is an excellent director of a stu
dent housing program, Mayer continued, 
given that, I regret the circumstances of the 
departure.
Mayer emphasized that he made the deci
sion to replace Dalton, although, if he 
hadnt, someone may have made it for me. 
Dalton was not fired, Mayer pointed 
out. There was never a question of poor 
performance or acting overtly against the 
best interests.of the university, which is what 
you fire someone for.
CMU Vice President and Provost Richard 
Van Hom said that despite noticable 
improvement in Daltons performance, he is 
not providing the kind of Housing man
agement were looking for.
We want someone, Van Hom con
tinued, who will interact more effectively 
in maintenance control and supervision, 
which has not been a strong area for Gary. 
We are also looking for someone with a 
stronger student affairs background. 
Maintenance supervision has already 
been changed, according to Dalton, Phys
ical Plant, not the Housing Office, is now 
doing that work.
Dalton is a member of the Association of 
College and University Housing Officers,
and, he said, because at most universities 
the student affairs people report to the Hous
ing Director, I have been exposed to a good 
(leal in the student affairs area through this 
organization.
Both Van Hom and Mayer gave Dalton 
high marks for this year, but Van Hom 
said, were changing. We want a closer tie 
between the Housing Office and Residence
Life.
The administration has switched from 
wanting a business oriented Housing opera
tion to student affairs oriented many times. 
Before I came, CMU had 14 Housing 
Directors in 15 years because of this, Dalton 
commented. I think a four year stay is 
pretty good.
continued on page 6
Room deposits may be refunded
by Julie Weinstein
A plan has recently been formulated to 
refund the $100 Housing deposit to students 
who have retained their rooms. However, 
the final details of this plan will not be made 
available until after room selection.
This plan was initiated by Senior Vice 
President and Provost Richard Van Hom at 
last weeks student senate meeting after a 
senate resolution which protested the late 
release of the new Housing rates was passed.
The new price list was only made availa
ble at room draw, leaving many students less
than a week before room retention in which 
to decide whether or not they were able to 
live on campus.
Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxilliary Servi
ces, stressed that the possibility of housing 
deposit refunds should make no difference 
in any students plan to participate in room 
selection. The proposition should have no 
effect on the room selection process. Stu
dents will receive notices from the university 
itemizing the reasons and procedures 
involved in housing deposit refunds later 
this week.
Housing reduces fraternity rent after UFO protests
by Alice Alfonsi
Oscar Mayer, director of auxiliary servi
ces, lias agreed to lowrer the tent hike in the 
proposed lease for fraternity housing as a 
result of complaints and letters from the 
fraternity presidents.
The main arguments, said Tom 
Joseph, President of the (UFO) United Frat
ernal Organization, were the capital 
improvements, the fact that we werent con
sulted about what was going to be done, 
there was no guarantee of work, and there 
was no timetable set up.
These were considerations discussed at 
the emergency UFO meeting held March 19. 
Hie meeting was called to decide what 
course of action the UFO was going to take. 
One possibility discussed was a Greek boy
cott of spring carnival; a ploy that would 
virtually shut down the annual event and 
thereby call attention to UFOs plight. This 
proposal was approved by several individ
ual fraternities but tabled by the UFO 
assembly as an inadequate and inappropriate 
riate maneuver. Earle Swank, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs brought a letter from Mayer
which stated that the proposed increase 
would be cut by 1.5%. This helped to 
appease the fraternity assembly.
The proposed $312,000 lease for 1981-82 
covers all 12 fraternity houses. The fraterni
ties are not required to sign their lease until 
April 30. Were still negotiating our lease, 
said Joseph. The UFO passed a resolution 
in protest of the problems they encountered 
with Housing.
We do have lease meetings, said Joseph, 
but we did not discuss the contract price 
until the end of February and the beginning 
of March. Thats when they laid the stuff on 
to us about the capital improvements. This 
was through working with Gerry Dalton 
(Director of Housing).
Capital Improvements
Mayer explained why there was a jump in 
the cost of capital improvements. Over the 
past five years the money which the fraterni
ties paid for capital improvements ($9,576) 
went only toward a 1976 repair deficit. 
According to Mayer, no money was 
reserved, and many projects w hich needed to 
be done began to backlog. The projected 
cost of these projects was estimated by Dal
ton to be .$160,000. 
Some of these projects included lighting 
the fraternity quadrangle, putting new win
dows in the buildings, and installing emer
gency smoke alarms. What angered the 
UFO, according to Joseph, was that they 
wont even consult us on what we think is 
more important.
This is not a one time shot, said Mayer
referring to the $20,000 appropriation. He 
continued, This is the level of resources 
well be needing from frats every' year. 
The Housing budget is composed 
entirely of student housing fees. We do not 
now have access to low-cost financing, 
either from the endowment or from other 
low-interest loan programs, said Mayer. 
The federal office of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) has given low-interest 
construction loans to CMU in the past such 
as for the fraternities new steam-line. Mayer 
has not yet submitted an application to
continued on page 9
Proposals made 
for 82-83 tuition
by Monica J. Cellio
The Tuition Committee, which is re
sponsible for recommending tuition rates 
t0 President Cyert, sent a memo to the pres
ident last week suggesting a tuition rate 
ranging from $6100 to $6300 for the 1982-83 
school year. This decision was made after 
tWo meetings of the committee, which conSlsts f administrators, faculty and students.
According to Dr. Mel Bernstein, chairman of the committee, this figure is only a 
Commendation on which Cyert will base 
Ws dec ision. Cyert will meet with the com
mittee in the near future and then take his 
Vision to the Board of Trustees.
^nstein suited that most committee 
(tnbers recognized the need lor an 
continued on page 7
photo by Doug Ellis
Sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta, first place winners in the all sorority category of Greek Sing, 
sang selections from Oliver last Friday.
photo by Doug Ellis
Alpha Tau Omega Little Sister, Kenneth 
McCall, led ATO brothers in a rousing 
version of Do vou love me?

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial._____________ ________
Time for the administration to begin spring cleaning
It is time for an intense evaluation of the Housing program at CMU. Although praised by the administration, Gerald Dalton has been asked to leave his position as Housing Director. Simultaneously, the administration has decided to shift Housing policy, bringing the Housing Office and Residence Life closer together. The question is: What should be done now to best serve the interests of resident students?The administration wants Housing to be more effective at maintenance control and supervision. Also, the administration wants
the new director to have a stronger background in student affairs. We couldn't agree more. Maintenance control and supervision are inadequate here, and Dalton has been equally inadequate in dealing with student interests and their problems.We need a director with expertise in both business and human relations. However, this is only a partial solution.Much of the blame for the current Housing problems lies with the administration. There has been a blatant lack of both coordination and communication within CMU's Housing
hierarchy. Responsibilities need to be more clearly defined for Housing administrators if they are to truly serve the students.Unfortunately, over the years the administration has shown a lack of direction when setting Housing policies. Dalton lasted fours years here, but in the previous 15 years we've had 14 Housing Directors. Such instability is hardly in the best interest of the student body.A new Housing Director in not sufficient. The administration needs to put its house in order.
The shuttle flies Friday: The Tartan mill be there
by Bob Leighty
Just after dawn on Friday, a monumental 
event in the history of mankind will occur. 
That morning, if everything proceeds 
according to plan, Americas revolutionary 
new space shutde will soar to the heavens, 
then glide around the earth on its giant 
white wings. The Tartan will be in Florida 
to record this remarkable happening.
As of this writing, plans have been made 
for Managing Editor Robert Zusman, Pho
tography Editor Chuck Chidekel and 
myself to travel to Kennedy Space Center for 
Friday's launch. After we return to Pitts
burgh, we plan to put together a special 
Tartan supplement, complete with exclu
sive interviews and photographs.
We want to emphasize that our supple
ment will be different from the typical wire 
service reports and photos seen in the local 
daily newspapers. If we succeed in our 
plans, we will present a very special and very 
unique portrayal of the launch, using an 
angle especially relevant to our CMU 
readers.
Shuttle is significant
The space shuttle is significant to eve
ryone for many reasons. The development 
of the shutde and overall space program has 
created and nurtured many new and valua
ble technologies. The space program has 
put people to work in many space-related 
industries. We have received literally 
hundreds of pages of documentation on 
benefits from the space program and shutde. 
By the time we return from Florida, we 
expect to have received hundreds more.
Americas new space shutde is much 
more than a PAT bus with wings; it is the 
key to mans future utilization of space. The 
shutde will allow us to mine, manufacture 
and experiment in ways scientists have only 
dreamed about before.
We must recognize that space is our future 
and the shutde is a method for meeting our 
goals and ideals. The tiekkies are right when 
they call space the final frontier.
We're losing the space race
Numerous other countries are well aware
of the potential of space exploration. The 
Russians are rapidly and substantially 
advancing their space program; so are the 
Europeans and Japanese. They have the 
vision to see how valuable space will be in 
the future. Hopefully, we do too; however, 
at present this does not appear to be the case.
Except for the shuttle, America has no 
major space projects planned for the late 
1980s and beyond. This is not the fault of 
NASA, but instead the budget-cutters in the 
White House and Congress.
There will be no more scientifically stun
ning American exploratory probes like Pio
neer and Voyager. There will be no 
American spacecraft sent to meet Haleys 
Comet in 1986. There will be no American 
landing on Jupiters moon Io, no major 
American probe to Venus.
The Russians, Europeans and Japanese 
will each be sending spacecraft to Haleys 
comet. The Russians already have well 
over twice the man-houis erf space-flight 
time that Americans have; the Russians are 
sending major probes to Venus in the 80s
and a manned mission to Mars in the 90s.
Even with our new shutde, we are losing ( 
our leadership position in space exploraton. 
We are also losing the benefits of a leading 
space program.
Space exploration not only provides 
resources and technology, it also provides 
man with a better understanding of himself 
and his role in the universe. Americas space 
program is not an extravagance; it is an 
investment in the future of our planet and 
the living things on it.
The Reagan administration wants more 
sharp cuts in NASAs budget. This would be 
more than a mistake--it would be one of 
mans greatest tragedies. In these days of 
presidential shootings and Soviet invasions, 
one might question how far civilization has 
really advanced in the last few thousand 
years. The space program is one of mans 
greatest accomplishments. And it is only 
beginning.
Bob Leighty is a junior majoring in techni
cal writing and editing and is the associate 
editor of The Tartan.
letters
Students upset over recent events within the-English Dept.
Editor
We, the undersigned,wish to express our 
alarm and dismay over recent events and 
trends within the English Department, mdst 
evident to us in terms of who is hired/ fired 
and in curriculum development.
To wit: / /
1) Professor David Walton has been 
denied tenure. Aside from being a 
faculty member for at least ten years, 
he has also:
- published various short stories and a 
collection, Waiting in Line, which 
has been optioned as a potential film
- sold a story' to Esquire
- completed a second collection of 
short stories, Evening Out
- designed the Survey of Genres: Fic
tion course which is sucessful, filled 
each semester to capacity
- this years English Department 
representative to Faculty Senate
- a dedicated, conscientious advisor 
backed by knowledge of the curricu
lum and his advisees grades
- shown the ability, consistently, to 
evaluate his students work with pre
ciseness, providing written feedback 
as well as being available for individ
ual conferences
The English Department gave Prof. Wal
ton a supporting vote on tenure. Why is it 
that the view of the department was over
looked and views from the students not even
considered? Just as Prof. Walton practices 
constructive criticism in the classroom, he 
has practiced it in the college, where it was 
obviously less appreciated. As is the policy, 
he was not judged on his teaching and admi
nistrative service, but on pqblication. We 
believe his publishing record to have been 
more than adequate and, coupled with his 
teaching and guidance abilities, his denial 
appiears to be a reflection erf how the creative 
writing program is valued by the college 
and university administration.
2) Paul Kameen, visiting assistant 
professor, is currendy fulfilling his 
fourth and final one year contract. He 
was denied a tenure track appoint
ment. As with Prof. Walton, it cant 
be said that he was lacking creden
tials. For example:
- In his time at CMU, he has been 
consistently the highest rated profes
sor in the English Department and 
the university, according to A Phi O 
evaluations.
- He is competent in many areas, as 
evidenced by his assignments in the 
English Department as a teacher of 
literature, composition, and poetry.
- His publishing record also demon
strates his breadth:
 published in Kansas Quarterly 
and South Carolina Review
 featured poet in Poet Lore
 his knowledge erf modem poetry 
is evidenced by his articles on mod
em poets, one of which is forth
coming in The Georgia Review
* his expertise in composition and 
rhetoric was exemplified by his 
acceptance into two National 
Endowment to the Humanities 
(NEH) summer seminars as well as 
his current article in PRE-TEXT
Perhap>s the most telling evidence of his 
ability is that recently he has been offered 
appointments to U. of Mass.-in Boston and 
at Pitt, where next year he will be Associate 
Director of Composition.
As with the loss of David Walton, this loss 
is a loss to the creative writing program, 
whose students needs and opinions, as a 
lack of consultation shpws, were not 
regarded as relevant. Instability has become 
a prominent feature in the staffing of the 
creative writing courses. This administra
tive flaw, among others, is detrimental to the 
creative writing students and the individual 
faculty members. The majority of the 
undergraduates in the English Department 
are in the creative writing and the profes
sional writing options. Yet the courses and 
activities offered by our department do not 
necessarily reflect the professional interests, 
career needs, and academic pursuits of the 
students. The university budgeting policies 
appear to create situations where one pro
gram is developed at the expiense of existing 
programs:
- Visiting Writers are currently
financed by grants obtained by Prof. 
Gerry Costanzo. There should be 
annual funds for Creative and Profes
sional visitors. College and departcontinued on page 3 '
Thebtan.
Editor-in-Oiief...........................Richard Gorelid
Associate Editor.....................................Bob Leighty
Managing Editor.............................Robert Zusman
Business Manager...............................Linda Hetrick
Asst Business Manager ..... Pam Shugerman
News Editor.....................................Jennifer Hutton
Asst. News Editors................................Alice Alfonsi
Monica Cellio
Features Editor........................ Maureen Brennan
Asst. Features Editor...................Kathy Knuninert
Entertainment Editor .........................Adam Lau#r
Sports Editor.  ..................................Cregg Bossier
Dossier Editor....................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editors ... ..........Chuck Chidekel
Doug EH'5
Contributing Editors.......................... Jim Balsom
Sue Borg 
Doug Kirsop
Production Manager..........................Vince Guinto
Production Staff........................................Bob Han
Mark Shelton
(<opyrighi  I9H1 by The Tartan. Ilic Editorial 
nsenn the light to withhold from publatiot' "' 
<o|n it (krtns unfit lot publication. Editorial Olii**-1 
Ski*) 30. (112) r7H-2III. Business Ofliuv Slab" % 
< 112) .'78-2111.21 hour |>hoii<. (112) *>7M-2I ISM"1*1* 
.ukln-ss: Box 17. SHknlcy Park. PiilslHirgh PA I 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 3
more letters
continued from page 2
ment funds have financed 
symposiums in Rhetoric and 
Composition.
- Professional writing students want 
practice in various aspects of profes
sional writing: communications, 
magazines, newspaper, advertising (a
2 credit course which was cancelled
three years ago despite enormous stu
dent interest).
- Currently, the English Department 
telies on outside internships, not all 
of equal value and experience, to 
teach these missing options while 
offering courses on the history of rhe
toric and rhetorical theory as electives 
in one professional writing program.
Dossier: Horrified sadness?
Editor
I really doubt whether my viewpoint can 
be at least partially accepted by you but after 
I had finished reading your DOSSIER Vol.
II, No. 4 I decided to try to reveal what my 
non-American eyes saw behind the lines.
Never in my lifemaybe with exception 
of reading An American TragedyI was so 
[ shaken by a feeling that America (and 
young America) is a desperately sad society. 
But exactly this feeling of horrified sadness 
came over me while reading your purely 
artistic issue.
Images of loneliness, surrogates of crime 
and violence, all that f-cking and shit 
without anything to outweigh or justify the 
apparent obsession to present as much 
skocking pictures as possible! Even what 
promised to be an entertaining series 
ended up with showing just another comer 
in this world where understanding and 
cooperation are forgotten values and 
killingthis time, thank God, only a 
lizardis as natural as breathing. And if 
Lynn Epstein tried to gather some vies 
about frustration, alienation, anger, and 
loneliness, the result was just an empty and 
hollow advice that one has only to tryand
everything is going to be OK.
Solzhenicyns (sic) criticism of the West
ern Civilization comes into my mind, and 
he might be right in many points. For me 
a political refugee from an East European 
totalitarian regime-America (in spite of An 
American Tragedy or In Cold Blood) was a 
sort of a promised land, rich not only with 
freedom but also with humanistic ideals 
which I was eager to absorb and follow. 
Now, after living here for a while I am 
frightened by an apparent lack of such 
ideals. Yes, everything is acceptable, socially 
and morally. Your magazine was a rather 
discouraging example what kind of an 
uninspiring piece of art, virtually free of 
any positive value, young, educated people 
tend to create. I know, a students magazine 
is just fun. But what about future, what 
about real life?
It would be unjust if I would only critic
ize. There was one page worth of reading 
and re-reading: the first page. It helped me 
to understand some reasons for my own 
loneliness and alienation in this country. 
Thanks for that.
Sincerely, 
Maria Vida
While rhetoric is no doubt a worth
while discipline, these are not the 
courses most likely to prepare us for 
careers in professional writing. At the 
present, there is no faculty member 
whose primary publications are in 
Professional Wrriting.
Undergraduates are being used in these 
courses to support the graduate program in 
rhetoric, without regard to whether these are 
the most appropriate courses for us. And 
although such courses as Review Writing 
have been offered, they are not offered with 
any regularity and no one can say, in any 
given semester, which professional writing 
courses will be available. The same goes for 
literature courses.
Whether we opt in professional or crea
tive writing, all English majors are first 
required to fulfill the minimal English 
majorthe only English major that is 
offered any undergraduate. Any student 
interested in graduate work in English Liter
ature or Creative Writing would find them
selves lost, even should they take every 
literature course offered in their years as 
upperclassmen (that is after finally complet
ing the well-intentioned but poorly exe
cuted CORE curriculum). The offerrings in 
literature are so scanty that the graduate 
school bound student would be ill-prepared 
for the Graduate Record Exams. Students 
who arent planning to do graduate work 
are equally deprived by the lack of literature 
courses, most blatantly in the novel and all 
modem and contemporary literature. This 
lack points to a loss of faculty in this area in 
the department. Furthermore, there exists 
no means by which the student can request 
courses. Rather, each semester we must face
the surprise of what is, or more markedly, 
what isnt being offered. When a course is 
offered and proves sucessful there is no assu
rance that it will be repeated.
The policy of the university, in terms of 
the directions the college programs take, 
appears to be determined more by outside 
funding available, for projects such as robot
ics, than by the needs and desires of the 
students.
As history repeats itself once again (i.e., A1 
Goldman 8c Martin Russ), we will mourn 
the loss of two} assets to our department. 
Especially tragic is the way in which they 
were let go-victims of unethical adminis
trative deliberation by the same uptanding 
administrative community.
Some people feel that The Tartan is not 
the appropriate place to air this information 
and these opinions. However, resorting to 
letter writing is our only reasonable alterna
tive. We undoubedly speak for the entire 
student body when we say that we students 
have strong feelings toward issues that affect 
us. The university sorely lacks any mecha
nism by which we can vent these opinions.
Signed by 18 English Majors
Letter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
An apology (and justification) from Franklin P. Reese III
Editor
Members of the election board, candidates 
for Student Senate President, and studentsboth voting and typical:
1 have been asked by the election board to 
apologize for my actions and the actions of 
my henchmen regarding my recent aborted
campaign for student senate president. 
Before the apology, however, I would like to 
explain the circumstances of discussing the 
operation of student government on this 
campus. Two questions were raised 
repeatedly; 1)Are we really being represented 
and 2)what does student senate do for us
ATO finally unclogs
through either Housing or CMU Police 
Department (on weekends). Plus, the 
numerous times I personally sought help 
from either of the two gentlemen mentioned 
above. A plan or timetable to enact the 
repairs has yet to be established.
I would like to commend Physical Plant 
on their quick clean up of the health hazard 
that recently plagued our House (3/30/81). 
Hopefully, with Physical Plant now in 
charge, a solution will be made.
Editor
I, am addressing you on recurring prob
lems plaguing the Alpha Tau Omega Fra
ternity. In my capacity as House Manager 
during the Spring semester, I feel that our 
house has been neglected in fulfilling the 
necessary repairs to our drainage system.
The problem was brought to a forefront 
as early as the second week of February. Mr.
Dalton, head of the Housing office, was per
sonally notified of the situation. I enlisted 
the aid of Mr. Montague by obtaining a 
water vacuum that I personally used on two 
different cleanup operations. I have filed at 
least four maintenance request forms
Keep Greek Sing pure
Editor
Why? Why is Walter Cathie, director of 
financial aid, donating a monetary award 
the to winners of the fraternity and soror
ity competitions in Greek Sing?
Greek Sing, I thought, was a charitable 
Performance with proceeds going toward 
d^e home for crippled children this year.
The monetary award which was announced 
^e evening of the performance (April 3)
Suprised the audience  many groans and 
1)005 were audible.
Hiis cash award blots the whole spirit of 
competition and reduces it to a level of 
? school talent shows.
Joseph Schinosi 
House Manager 
Alpha Tau Omega
As I see it, the frats and sororities do not 
work day and night perfecting their songs 
simply for a monetary award but for some
thing which means more to them - pride in 
themselves.
I just hope that the winning fraternity 
and sorority donate their award to the char
ity that they worked so hard for in the first 
place - that is if they have not already done 
so.
It was announced that this award is to be 
given every year henceforth. I hope that the 
frats and sororities donate their gift every 
year henceforth.
name withheld by request
besides divvy up our activities fee to organi
zations across the campus? After much dis
cussion, we decided that no we werent 
being represented, at least not in the manner 
we wished. Granted, nothing spectacular is 
done by senate, but it would be nice to have 
true representatives doing nothing spectacu
lar rather than the usual insiders clique 
(with resumes on their mind) doing it. As for 
the function of senate, someone recalled last 
years vote of disapproval of a non-existent 
draft (to fight Exxons war of course) and the 
lovely election scandal of last spring. With 
these thoughts in mind, we decided some
thing had to be done. The course of action 
we decided upon was one which brought 
much annoyuance to certain inflated egos 
on campus.
Why not choose our own candidate for 
president and run his campaign to appeal to 
others on campus with views like ours? We 
reasoned that if people actually voted for our 
candidate, they must approve of our atti
tudes and methods. We had decided to aban
don the traditional CMU election rhetoric 
in favor of a more radical style. It seemed to 
us that each year the same worn promises 
are made to the students and each candidate 
pays lip service to the consensus view of 
whatever issue may concern the campus. To 
counteract this, I was chosen as the inde
pendent candidate. To start the campaign, 
no photos were issued and no statement was 
made. This campaign was to basicallly con
sist erf word of mouth advertising, unusual 
publicity stunts, and the occasional macabre 
poster. No harm in that you say? Thats 
exactly what we thought.
Wednesday, March 4, a debate was sche
duled for the presidential candidates (hot 
dog...more worn out promises and Im so 
great rhetoric). Unfortunately for my cam
paign, and eventually for my wallet, I had to 
work that night and was unable to attend. 
Realizing that no appearance was worse
than a patheuc showing, and turther realiz
ing that the election officials would frown at 
a duplicate, we decided to send someone in 
my stead without informing anyone. This 
proved to be a major error in judgement.
Near the end of the debate someone 
informed the moderator, Richard Gorelick, 
that Frank Reese was not really Frank Reese. 
In fairness to all involved, Gorelick allowed 
the debate to run its full course. Immediately 
after the debate, Gorelick approached the 
harlequin Frank Reese (who incidentally 
was not me) and asked for ID. Much confu
sion ensued and eventually it was deter
mined that I was not present at the debate, 
contrary to earlier reports. Now began the 
strange chain of events that were to take up 
my time and COST ME MONEY.
At 2:34 a.m. W-ednesday Night (Thursday 
morning?) I was stirred from my bed by 
feverish pounding on my door and excited 
voices in the hall. Upon answering the door,
I was confronted by a highly distraught 
president of the election beard. She 
explained to me that the next day, Thurs
day, I was to appear before the election 
be>ard at 4:30 p.m. to decide my involvement 
in the debate identity crisis. One thing she 
didnt explain was why she couldnt wait 
until morning to tell me this. She did say, 
however, that if I eiielnt show up the kanga
roo court...excuse me, a freudian slip...elec
tion board would judge me guilty of 
whatever offense they wished to charge me 
with.
Figuring I should find out just what 
charge or charges I was accused of and realiz
ing I would fry no matter what I did, I 
skipped my scheduled 4:30 P.M. class and 
appeared before the election board with a
continued on

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 7, 1981
Financial aid policy:v
Changes announced for summer work-study
photo by Doug Ellis 
Pledges of Pi Kappa Alpha assist the sis
ters of Delta Delta Delta by hanging their 
new Greek letters.
by Reed Vickerman
CMUs College Work Study Program 
(CWS) is now gearing-up for student partic
ipation during the summer session. 
Though the programs financial position 
remains stable, program director Ann 
Ruddy is quick to point out several changes 
in the program which she feels will insure 
the security of employment.
For the summer session, which will begin 
May 19th, work study employment will be 
managed under a temporarily amended set 
of guidelines. Among the newr rules are pro
visions which are designed to extend the 
programs funds. The programs funds are 
now 70% subsidized by the Federal Govern
ment. This year CMUs CW7S program was 
forced to change its subsidy contribution 
from a ratio of 80:20 to 70:30 in an additional 
effort to stretch funds.
Of the greatest priority on the program 
directors list of provisions, is the Financial 
Aid Offices request that each department 
hiring summer work study help cut back on 
their employees by 15%. In addition to these 
departmental reductions, work study partic
ipants will work two less weeks.
This summer, the program directors have 
also asked that a reduction be made in the 
number of students hired by research grants. 
Ideally, the directors would like to curtail 
research aided work until next September in 
order to conserve these vital funds.
Despite all of the programs new guide
lines, Ruddy still reserves exuberance over 
the programs chances of expansion. Faced 
with new wage schedules which peg all rates 
at, or above, the nation-wide minimum, the 
program has now set new upper limits to 
student wage levels. The top rate which will
be paid to undergraduates is now set at
$4.75, while the ceiling for graduate students
is
As in semesters past, CMUs work study 
program will publish a list of student positions and their responsibilities. This latest 
index should be available April 27.
Spirit sponsors conference on Black outlook
by L. Vernon Valentine
A one day conference entitled A Black 
Students Outlook for the 80s will be held 
on Saturday, April 11 th from 12 to 6 p.m. in 
the Multi-purpose room of Hunt Library. 
Aimed at increasing student awareness, the 
conference will be divided into three subtop
ics The Black Woman, Education, and 
Organizations.  /
W7e hope this conference will be the 
beginning of increased participation in our 
struggle, James Pattersoh, SPIRIT coordi
nator stated. Historically, black student 
have a leading role in formulation of strate
gies and tactics to deal with major problems. 
In the difficult times that we face, this is once 
again necessary, Patterson added.
Dr. Vemelle Lilly, professor at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and a CMU alumnus, will 
be a keynote speaker on black women, dis
cussing the key issues facing the black 
woman today.
Jake Milliones, member if the Pittsburgh 
School Board, Cordell Sloan, western 
regional Act 101 Representative, Dr. Ronald 
Glenn director of the Camegie-Mellon 
Action Project, Dr. Norman Johnson, Asso
ciate Dean of the School of Urban and Pub
lic Affairs, and Dr. Roland Smith, Associate 
Provost for Academic Administration will 
comprise the panel on eduation. these 
speakers will discuss issues such as busing 
and quality education at the lower levels, 
Financial Aid, the future of minority sup
port programs, and recruitment of black
-NEW!
"Do-it-yourselfCopya one-hour cassette in less than 2 minutes.
Make a Copy of your Favorite 
Cassette For Only AAX
* Price includes the copy cassette and the 
Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural
copies, every time. am mt is
What can you copy?
The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the 
most common applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, 
college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking 
letters, family events, relaxations, exercises, word-processing data, and 
computer programs.
This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99c. 
Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below. Simply bring your 
original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copying service are 
included in one price.
Your Original 
Cassette Length
30 minute 
60 minute 
90 minute 
120 minute
Regular Price 
Per Copy
$2.19 
$2.89 
$3 79 
$4.79
High-Speed 
Copying Time
1 minute
2 minutes
3 minutes
4 minuteseezDLNDCASSTTE COPYING CENTERS
foe eovre asseye si;
sh cassette and u rdiess of cassette 
h, Mpls , MN 5541
in reptac 
at seven
? this coup 
at the ttmi
y cents ($ 70 
-8 West Rive
Available Exclusively at:
C-MU Bookstore
graduate and Phd candidates at the higher 
levels of education.
The NAACP, Urban League, PUSH, 
National Black Independent Party, All Afri
cans Peoples revolutionary Party, Pan Afri
can Congress, and the Zimbabwean African 
Nationalist Union will be organizations 
represented in the final segment of the pro
gram. Each organization will discuss its his
tory and philosophy, as well as the possible 
roles of the possible roles of the involved 
student.
Although the emphasis is upon students, 
SPIRIT urges the entire community to 
attend the conference, noting it as a key 
opportunity for interested individuals to 
seek answers to important questions.
Program finds students 
off-campus jobs
In an effort to counter expected declines in 
federal and state financial aid available to 
college students, Career Service and Place
ment has inaugurated a new program to 
locate off campus part-time jobs for its stu
dents. This new effort, known as the Job 
Location and Development Program, is 
jointly funded by University and federal 
funds.
The program, now in its formative stages, 
will locate off campus jobs for students with 
business, industry, and non-profit oiganizations. This service is available to all students 
at CMU. In contrast to work study jobs, 
demonstrated financial need is not required 
to be eligible for this assistance.
Maureen A. Barcic has joined the staff of | 
the Career Services and Placement Office to 
organize and manage this new program. 
Barcic comes to CMU from the Vocational 
Rehabilitation Center of Pittsburgh where 
she was employed as a placement specialist,
Students wishing to use this service can 
register for it in room 209 Warner Hall 
(Financial Aid Office area) or call 578-2068 
for an appointment.
ATTENTION ENGINEERS:
5KF
JOIN OUR GROWING INDUSTRIAL TEAM!
jpwtN* 4/30/81
SKFthe worlds largest manufacturer of bearings 
has immediate openings for qualified candidates 
in several Career Development Programs..
 Manufacturing
 Applications
 Design
 Sales
 International
SKF manufactures, sells and distributes thousands 
of ball and roller bearing variationsExact 
Bearings that range in size from V2" OD to 
86" OD and weigh from less than one ounce to 
more than six tons. SKF rolling bearings are 
designed to meet every type requirement from 
home appliances and cars to jet aircraft engines, 
construction, mining, printing, farming and machine 
tool applications.
SKF Career Development Programs are designed 
to help you broaden your skills through diverse 
training with the industrys marketing and 
engineering leaders!
You get on-the-job experience as well as formal 
classroom lectures ... functional responsibilities 
... multiple department exposure. Youll find 
challenge and opportunity.
Lend your talents to this vital industry where the 
promotional opportunities are as great as the many 
outstanding innovations to be introduced.
Please send a full resume indicating areas of 
interest to the attention of:
John T. Kerr 
Personnel Manager 
SKF Industries, Inc.
1100 First Avenue 
King of Prussia, PA 19406
M/F An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Aprii 7, 198l^The TartanPage 5Campus improvements
Landscaping predominates
pholo by Doug EH is
A student relaxes on the fence, a permanent fixture at CMU. The fence, which was recent
ly broken, wil not be replaced as originally planned, but repairs will continue.
more letters
Frank Reeses apology
continued from page 3
by Monica J. Cellio
The University Planning Office has 
announced plans for capital improvements 
to be made this semester, including lands
caping, renovations, and lighting. Accord
ing to Space and Facilities Planner Byron 
Falchetti, these changes are being made to 
improve the aesthetic quality of the campus.
Improvements began last semester with 
the planting of several trees on campus. Fal
chetti stated that the university has 17 new 
trees which will be planted near Warner 
Hall to crcate a nice area for the campus 
community for recreation. Warner Hall, 
along with the Skibo parking area, will also 
become one of the locations for new hedges.
In addition to the trees already planted, 
the university will receive a City of Pitts
burgh donation of an unspecified number 
of trees to plant near the Margaret Morrision 
parking area, the Woodlawn Apartments, 
and along Forbes Avenue and Frew Street.
Falchetti also discussed plans to redo the 
walkways in the Mall area, the section 
between Hamerschlag, Baker, and Doherty 
Halls. This work will be done with a sub
stance called bituminus and brick, which 
should be more durable than the cement 
now used. According to Falchetti, the plans 
for the walkways were discussed with several 
students and representatives from the 
Design Committee, and the plans were met 
with enthusiasm.
This summer new lighting fixtures will 
be installed in the Mall, in the areas sur
rounding Warner Hall and Skibo. This 
summer the wall on Forbes Avenue, in front 
of Warner Hall, will be restructured and
by Kathy Krummert
Six CMU students recently received the 
opportunity to travel and work abroad this 
summer through the AIESEC (eye-sek) 
international exchange program. Between 
June and September, Carol Ghetian, Kathy 
McGinley, Kate Nellis (seniors), Damien 
Bosco, Maureen Brennan, and Dan Nichols 
(juniors), will gain managerial skills, practi
cal experience, and knowledge of the cul
tures of Germany, Ireland, Norway, and the 
Philippines. All of the jobs are paying posi
tions that require at least a basic background 
of business skills.
Student exchange is the most extensive 
program AIESEC conducts to promote 
international managerial and communica
tion skills. At the internationally congress 
held each year, representatives from 58 coun
tries, containing over 400 local committees 
and over 30,000 students, gather to exchange 
traineeships via computer and manual pro
cesses. The 1981 Congress was held in 
Copenhagen the second week of March.
Damien Bosco and Carol Ghetian are 
both heading for jobs in Oslo, Norway for 
6-12 weeks. Oslo is the CMU twin, that is, 
the committee with which CMU partici
pates in a direct exchange. Hong Kong is 
CMUs other twin committee.
Damien will be working for a communi
cations media company. His job involves 
financial accounting and contributing to
Pregnant? 
And you didn*t mean to be? 
Por a free pregnancy test and 
confidenti,il help call
Thebtehatb n.1-1988
strengthened.
Some landscaping improvements have 
a heady been made in Roselawn Apart
ments, and additional landscaping will 
soon begin in other housing areas. Falchetti 
stated that a very attractive setting has 
been created on the Roselawn terrace area, 
and the parking, lighting, and landscaping 
are being upgraded.
Other improvements planned include the 
reseeding of the grassy areas above the tennis 
courts and the installation of wooden 
benches throughout the campus to replace 
the existing cement ones. The old benches 
may be moved to the housing areas, accord
ing to Falchetti.
One area of recent concern to students and 
Falchetti is the fence near Doherty Hall, 
which was recently broken, exposing 
hundreds of layers of multi-colored paint. 
At first plans for replacing the fence were 
being considered, then the Planning Office 
decided to try and fix it and decided it will 
only be replaced if the repairs are ineffective. 
However, according to Falchetti, the fence is 
a permanent fixture at CMU and it will be 
retained in one way or another.
Falchetti stated that the renovations are a 
joint effort of Physical Plant and the Plan
ning Office, and that so far things are going 
well. We plan to continue our efforts to 
create an attractive campus, Falchetti 
stated, and we hope to have the campus in 
tip-top shape for graduation.
Falchetti would like to receive student 
input. His office is in the Planning Office in 
Warner Hall.
publication of the semi-annual report. 
Carol will deal with cost accounting for 
Hotel Scandinavia.
Cork, Ireland is the destination of both 
Maureen Brennan and Kathy McGinley. 
Maureens job will primarily be learning 
about the operations of Trustee Savings 
Bank by rotating through each department. 
Kathy is assigned a special project in market
ing research with Allied Irish Bank, Ltd.
Computer operating, data research, key
punching, and offset printing are what 
Katie Nellis will be doing for a computer 
firm in Munster, Germany.
Dan Nichols will deal with credit analysis 
and evaluation, and corporate planning, 
with a finance corporation in Manila in the 
Philippine Islands.
10 trainees from overseas will come to 
Pittsburgh during the summer and upcom
ing school year to participate in similar 
opportunities with Pittsburgh corpora
tions. Their jobs were secured through the 
work of the members of the CMU commit
tee this past year.
Reception is also a vital part of the traineeship program. Each local committee is
-J SEMESTER \ IV AT
T-^il SEA
Plan a college semester at sea aboard the SCHOONER HARVEY GAMAGE. The credits in arts and science earned from Southampton College, a Center of Long Island University, may be transferred. Curriculum includes visits to numerous educational and historical places from Maine to the Virgin Islands.HARVEY SAMAGE is a 95-foot U.S. Coast Guard inspected auxiliary schooner. For curriculum, cost and schedule, write or 
phone-DIRIGO CRUISES
39 Waterside Lane, Clinton, CT 06413 
Telephone: (203) 669-7068
campaign associate. Andrei Sakharov must 
have received a warm welcome from the 
KGB compared to what awaited us. The 
hearing began, the accusation (disrupting 
the fair conduct of an election) was made, we 
defended, they argued, we argued, they 
argued, we argued, both sides made closing 
statements, and the board recessed to decide 
just how severely they were going to punish 
the heretics for their predetermined guilt. 
This recess brought about an interesting 
development. The election board is 
allegedly a separate entity from senate. For 
this reason, senate is supposed to stay out of
responsible for finding housing for the trai
nee and for entertaining him with social and 
educational activities that familiarize him 
with the people and the environment of the 
country. Members of the local committees in 
Ireland, Norway, Germany, and the Philip
pines will take responsibility for familiariz
ing our CMU students with their country 
this summer.
Since the international congress last year, 
CMU has hosted trainees from Norway, 
France, Brazil, Columbia, Switzerland, and 
Germany.
Students of all majors are welcome to 
attend an AIESEC weekly meeting, Wednes
days at 4:30 in Skibo Room 11, or call x3515.
the internal matters of the election board. If 
this is true, could someone please explain to 
me why H&SS senator Lane Bess went with 
the election board on their recess and came 
back with them? Im truly curious about the 
loophole in the rules. After the recess, the 
election board told us their decision-my 
name was throwTi of the ballot and a $50 fine 
was assessed to each person involved . 
Thank God drawing and quartering is out 
of style. These are the circumstances of my 
involvement in this years election.
Now, the part youve been waiting for-the 
apologies. To the election board, I apologize 
for wasting your time and effort at my trial 
and for keeping your president awake until 
2:34 a.m. the night of the debate. To the 
other candidates, I apologize for any incon
venience or annoyance I may have caused 
you. Finally, to the students o(the campus, I 
apologize for not running my campaign in 
the manner so typical of this campus. Par
don me for attempting to bring some new 
life to the hum drum senate elections. And 
to the Placement Office, a special apology: I 
apologize for getting into this mess, since I 
now realize how much harder youll have to 
work to find me a job with this on my 
record. WTiy for Heavens sake, how will I 
ever explain this at a job interview? Forgive
Sincerely, 
Franklin P. Reese III
WE ASK 
A LOT 
OF YOU.
College is over There's a degree in your hand Now 
what? Start your career rolling by attending Air Force Of
ficer Training School. Complete this three-month program 
and you open the door to one of the finest opportunities 
available anywhere to college graduates today If you've 
got what it takes, we can offer a challenging and rewarding 
career with all the respect and prestige of a commissioned 
officer The starting salary is good and if you meet special 
qualifications, you may even have an opportunity to go to 
graduate school at little or no cost to you You can also 
have 30 days of vacation with pay each year complete 
medical and dental care and low cost life insurance Find 
out today how the Air Force can help you get your career 
rolling Do it for your country and yourself Contact
Fred Alley or Jim Gallogly 
644-2704 _ ___
A great way of M*s>
AIESEC sponsors student exchange program

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 7, 1981
REMBRANDT PAINTINGS. By Horst Gerson. Over 730 Illus., Incl. Many Large Full Color Plates. Complete, authoritative and beautiful presentation of the great masters work. Written by one of the worlds foremost Rembrandt authorities who has combined impeccable scholarship with a lucid style. Gives a complete examination of the artist and his world offering a startling image of Rembrandts life and art. The book was thirty years in the making in Amsterdam, and is lavishly illustrated with spectacular reproductions. 527 pages. 11 x 14*4 Orig. Pub. at $60.00. Only $29.95
emu bookstore*
f* SAKtft HAI L
Rembrandt!
Western dance troupe featured
Spring Carnival:
by Jeff Jacobs
The Texas Wanderers, a professional 
dance company from Houston, will give an 
exhibition of western dancing on Thursday, 
23, as part of the opening ceremonies 
for Spring Carnival 1981.
In addition, the Wanderers will be giving 
another exhibition as well as dancing leson Saturday the 25th, at 4:30, in the  
tent to be located outside of Skibo.
Don Tucci and Kathy Dastous, two 
of the five person troupe, came to 
Pittsburgh in November to promote a line 
of western clothing. After Christmas, sens
ing the need for proper dance instruction, 
and Dastous began giving exhibi
tions at local clubs, including Johnny Dolthe V.I.P. in Bridgeville and the
Spanish Main, among others. Then DasDastous, on her first trip out of Texas, 
said that she worked at Gilleys, the bar feat
ured in the movie Urban Cowboy. The 
Wanderers also gave dancing lessons to 
several of the extras working in the movie, 
and acted as extras themselves.
In addition to the Wanderers, other Carni
val highlights will include: a square dance 
and fireworks display on Thursday night, a 
wrestling bear on Friday, and a cow-chip 
tossing contest Saturday afternoon. There 
will be other events and entertainment con
tinuously throughout the weekend, with 
AB Concerts presenting Santana on Friday 
evening in the gymnasium.
T-shirts for Carnival will go on sale Fri
day April 17, and balloons and buttons will 
be given out starting on Thursday, the 16th.
Committee begins search 
for new housing director
The Texas Wanderers will appear at CMU for Spring Carnival, April 23 to 26.
continued from page 1
Mayer said that, Housing is a job where 
the director is in the unhappy situation of 
having to say no as part of the daily rou
tine. To preserve some semblance of order, 
the system must run by rules.
The dissatisfaction with Daltons perfor
mance was cumulative, Mayer added. It 
came from such groups as SDC, UFO, and 
The Tartan, but was primarily from stu
dents unaffiliated with these groups who 
were expressing their opinions in The Tar
tan in the form of letters to the editor.
Dalton disagrees, Ive never had any indi
cation that these groups were upset with my 
performance, in fact, when I told the SDC 
Housing Committee last Thursday that I 
would be leaving, they were surprised and 
felt I had been totally cooperative when dealPassover Meals 
Served at the 
B'nai B'rith Dining Center 
315 South Bellefield Ave.
For Reservations, call 621-8875 
Students on Food contracts may obtain a 
rebate by contacting:
Ken Stover 
Director of food services 
Skibo - Rm 27 
at least one week prior to Passover.
ing with them.
A search committee will be formed this 
month to select a new director, according to 
Mayer. It will be headed by Irene Daugherty, 
the Associate Director of Auxiliary Services. 
The Committee should consist of administrators, students, and possibly faculty. UFO, 
SDC, and Student Government should have 
representatives on the committee, Mayer 
said.
DU fraternity plans 
fund-raiser for CARE
One hundred members of the Delta 
Upsilon fraternity and their Littie Sisters 
will hold a Pittsburgh CARES day for the 
benefit of CARE, the International Relief 
Agency, on April 13, 1981 in downtown 
Pittsburgh and in Oakland.
Their goal is to collect ten thousand dol
lars in contributions from the people of 
Pittsburgh, which, according to Judy Ivanschultz, spokeswoman for the Delta Upsilon 
Little Sisters, will buy 50 tons of food for 
needy people around the world.
The students will be stationed at strategic 
locations on downtown and Oakland streetcomers from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. and will be * 
identified by distinctive bright red T-shirts 
with white letters reading Pittsburgh 
CARES. In return for contributions, dona
tors will receive I CARE buttons.
Two years ago, Delta Upsilon collected 
several thousand dollars for CARE in a 
maradion Bunny Hop. ;
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
12 00
Men. -NEW Wed. 10*7 
Thun. fri. 10-9
Sai. 9-6
COLORINO
*37 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Ooktowd *ot Office 
*7-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments
r;
eo vrbuo sti nbprb g!!YDUH uMbu/ nDoM E!IboMDUH oMuo nDgg YbbO a!W S!IDUH TuSY uHuDU uU/ uHuDUC
VuDr SWoobrE oMuo gDEobUC

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 7
World News: US aid to Nicaragua, Poland; factory orders fall
Nicaragua  Reagan aides have con
firmed that Nicaragua will no longer receive 
U.S. economic aid. Assistance to that nation 
was suspended in January because of reports 
that arms were passing through Nicaragua, 
from Cuba to leftists in El Salvador. Nearly 
$60 million has been already sent to Nicara
gua but the President has canceled the 
remaining $15 million scheduled for this 
year.
Bangkok  Prime Minister Prem Tinsulanondas forces, crushed the last of a milcontinued from page 1
increase, and suggestions for tuition ranged 
from $6000 to $6900, with a weighted aver
age of $6220. This average represents an 
increase of almost 15%, which is slightly 
higher than the current inflation rate.
The 1982-83 tuition rate represents a $700 
to $900 increase over next years rate of $5400.
The two committee meetings were separ
ated by over a week to give members a 
chance to talk to people not on the commit
tee and sample opinions. Bernstein hopes 
that this, along with the inclusion of stu
dents and administrators alike on the com
mittee, has made the committee as 
representative as possible. Except for the 
suggestion that more students be included 
next year, the committee members seem to 
agree that the representation is accurate.
Bernstein stressed the need for balance 
between costs and education quality. I 
think the members were realistic about the 
financial end, and we are optomistic about 
the quality, he stated.
According to Bernstein, an effort is being 
made to increase aid to students, but prob
lems may arise if President Reagans budget 
plans are passed. We are trying as hard as 
we can, Bernstein said. We dont expect a 
tremendous negative impact.
itary coup attempt last Friday. Prems 
troups quickly rolled into Bangkok, forcing 
the unprepared rebels to surrender without 
violence. Prem promised no harsh reprisals 
against the rebels.
Saudi Arabia  The Reagan administra
tion had proceeded with its plans to sell 
Saudi Arabia five AW ACS surveillance and 
communication aircraft, which will be 
manned by American crews and techni
cians. In addition to these sophisticated air
craft, the U.S. will also sell the Saudis seven
According to Earle Swank, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs and a committee member, this is 
the first time a tuition committee has recom
mended a range, as opposed to a flat figure. 
Swank added that the president usually 
reduces the suggested figure.
Swank stated that the reports are not con
fidential, but that many students believe this 
to be the case.
Hall renamed
by David Lechner
In honor of psychology Professor Lee 
Gregg, Porter Hall 100 will be dedicated 
Gregg Hall this Thursday at four p.m. in 
a special ceremony.
Gregg, who died of cancer last 
summer, was a member of CMUs faculty 
beginning in 1952. He was a Professor of 
psychology until 1973, Head of the psychol
ogy department from 1973 to 1976, and 
Associate Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences (H&SS) from 1976 to 
1980.
As a psychologist, Gregg was instrumen
tal in starting and developing the whole
KC-135 tankers for in-flight refueling, all in 
an effort to enhance that nations position 
against the Soviets in the Persian Gulf area.
In an effort to compensate Israel for this 
latest arms sale, leaders in congress have 
suggested that the U.S. give, rather than sell, 
twelve F-15 fighters to Israel.
*Israel  Israeli amphibious troops raided 
Palestinian camps three times last week, 
attacking spots along the Lebanese coast. 
Friday, Israelis killed two Palestinian guer
rillas by blowing up their vehicle 10 miles 
North of the port of Sidon.
Washington  In an Administration 
victory. Congress last week approved a $36.9 
billion package of spending cuts. The bill, 
which passed by a vote of 88 to 10, now goes 
to the Democrat-controlled House.
White House  Vice President Bush has 
pledged food aid to Poland. The United 
States will provide $70 million worth of sur
plus butter and dried milk to help ease 
Polands worsening economy.
to honor prof.
field of cognitive psychology at CMU. 
According to John P. Crecine, H&SS Dean 
and personal friend of Gregg, Gregg was 
also primarily responsible for CMUs psy
chology department from its origins to its 
present status of probably the strongest 
psychology department man for man in the 
country. Crecine also said that as the H&SS 
Associate Dean, Gregg helped to structure 
the H&SS Core Curriculum here at CMU.
Crecine said of Gregg, He was a valuable 
member of the campus community, that 
basically devoted his life to the institution. 
Crecine also commented that Gregg was 
instrumental in making the CMLT psychol
ogy department what it is today.
Capital Hill  While testifying before a 
Senate Panel, Defense Secretary W7einberger 
denied any friction between himself and 
Secretary' of State Haig about who was run
ning the nation following the shooting of 
the President.
Commerce Department  New fac
tory orders fell 0.5% in February, to an 
adjusted $161.32 billion. Orders for non
durable goods also fell 1.1% to $79.86 billion, 
while durable orders rose 0.1% to $81.45 
billion.
Department of Agriculture  Farm 
prices fell 1.9% in March, after declines of .4% 
in February and January . The Agriculture 
Departments farm-price index now stands 
at 10% above the April 1980 level.
compiled by Reed .Vickerman
H&SS sponsors 
career seminars
by Maureen Brennan
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences will -sponsor two career seminars 
during the month of April. Richard Gallamo, Operations Officer at Mellon Bank, 
will present a 30 minute slide presentation 
on banking on Tuesday , April 14, at 3:30 
BH 245. Recruiting representatives from 
various departments of Mellon Bank will 
accompany Mr. Gallamo to answer specific 
career oriented questions.
Carl Hammer, a history professor at 
CMU until 1979, will speak on his job in 
corporate planning at Westinghouse Cor
poration on Tuesday, April 21, at 4:00 in 
BH 245 C. His work involves evaluation and 
planning of Westinghouses involvement in 
issues of social significance.
The seminars are open to the campus 
community. Everyone is encouraged to 
attend.
82- 83 tuition increase planned
i
In
Washington;D.C. 
it is Actual.
In the 
Northeast, 
International 
Relations is 
Theoretical.
The policies and people who shape them are right here in the nations capital. Local news is national news. And current affairs could include international decisions.You can be a part of it.The summer session at The American 
University offers the serious student an f/fjiopportunity to study the political MHtniLprocess up close. Explore political \science,government.business -Land government relations, communications, journalism and public relations whileyou further your degree. ^Plus hands-on intern(]
ships in government. H
internationalrela#/fa f lAbfZZitions and the f Maa Ihumanities are |
available. r
Well help you put theory into practice.
Talk with your academic counselor and call or write 
now for information about the summer session in D.C.
DUR!rIuoD!U uT!Wo
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE
P AgbuEb EbU/ S!WrEb ESMb/Wgb 
oG . P AgbuEb EbU/ EObSDRDS
CASS02
C
TP.
ThfAmerican
University
ORRDSb !R SWIIbr SbEED!UE 
TMb eIbrDSuU UUDvbrEDoa 
WuEMDUHo!U, DCCC 20016 
202-686-2697
Tlw Amere Univwtfy Is at owl 
opportunity ifl matta action

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 7, 1981
Hunt Library extends hours 
for rest of academic year
photo by Doug Ellis
The brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon reach a climax during their Greek Sing perfor
mance. SAE won second prize in the all fraternity category.
Series covers minority issue
by L. Vernon Valentine
The National Society of Black Engineers, 
in conjunction with the Minority Student 
Advisory Committee, is hosting a three-day 
series entitled Coping in a Predominately 
White Environment. This conference will 
be held on Sunday, April 12th, Tuesday, 
April 14th, and Thursday, April 16th at 7:30 
p.m. in the GSLA auditorium. The series is 
designed to sensitize the student and faculty 
community to major problems incurred by 
minorities in environmental adjustment.
Coping in a Predominately White 
Environment will be Sundays topic to be 
addressed by Dr. Marion Oliver of Millersville State College (formerly of the CamegieMellon Action Project), and Dr. Gary Harris 
of Howard University.
Coping in an Industrial Environment, 
the April 14th topic, will be discussed by 
Proctor and Gamble representatives James 
H. Scott and David Fox.
The final topic, scheduled for April 16th, 
will be Coping in a Predominately WTiite 
Educational Institution. Dr. James Bishop 
of Amherst College and Dr. Lee Brown of 
California Institute of Technology' will be 
the keynote speakers.
The series is funded by President Cyerts 
office.
by Maura Farrell
The hours of the Hunt Library have been 
extended on a trial basis for the rest of the 
year. Director of Univeisity Libraries, Tho
mas Michalak, initiated the change in hours 
after receiving a student senate resolution 
which requested 24 hour library service.
The library is now open Sunday thru 
Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m. During the 
hours from midnight to 2 a.m. only the 
basement and the first floor of Hunt are
CMU NSBE 
receives awards
by L. Vernon Valentine
The CMU chapter of the National Society 
of Black Engineers (NSBE) received two 
awards at the seventh annual NSBE confer
ence held in Cambridge, Massachusetts 
from March 19 to 22.
The Outstanding Chapter of Region 
Two Award, as well as the Membership 
Award for Region Two was accepted by 
Yvonne Alston and Karen Steiner, delegates 
from CMU. Region two consists of Pennsyl
vania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West 
Virginia, the District of Columbia, and 
North and South Carolina.
The conference, which brought together 
representatives from the 86 nationally char
tered chapters across the country, was co
hosted by the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and Northeastern University. 
Involvement of Black professionals in 
NSBE was a main topic discussed by the 450 
delegates.
The CMU chapter was sponsored jointly 
by the Monsanto and Proctor and Gamble 
corporations.
open and books cannot be checked out. 
Finals week, May 4 to May 8, the entire 
library will be open, also for studying pur
poses only until 2 a.m.
The resolution, written by Senator Laurie 
Elm, requested full 24 hour service in both 
the libraries. Elm said that the new Hunt 
Library' hours are a step in the right direc
tion, but she hopes the Engineering and 
Science Library hours will eventually be 
extended.
We have to prove that the Hunt Library 
is being used in its extended hours, Elm 
said, so that more service can be requested. 
She compared the current CMU library ser
vices to M.I.T. which has 24 hour library 
service. Elm also stated that she is glad the
library authorities have made this gesture 
toward helping CMU students.
Michalak was not available for comment.
Senate officers
Last week Student Senate elected new 
officers . They are:
Chairperson - Bob Holste 
Vice-chairperson - Laurie Elm
The committee chairpeople are: Rules, 
Dave Oshlag; Finance, Rich Hanusek; Aca
demic Affairs, Doug Camey; and General 
Campus and Information, Mark Fisher.
The Senate will meet tonight at 6:30 in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. All students are 
welcome to attend.
Want to see your name in print? 
Write for The Tartan. News staff meetings are Sundays at 1:00 p.m.
-
FREE!
The 1981
Student Savings Card
Yearbooks? NATIONAL MEMBER ?
Are In!
Pick Up Yours, StartingStudent Savings Card
Tomorrow Afternoon, Skibo
Lobby
CAMPUS BUYING POWERCaro must be presented before ordering mdse/services Not valid on special sale mdse services
Bring Your Receipt (If you have it)
or$10.00
Funded by Activities Fee
Cards offer discounts on. goods and services for establishments in Shadyside, Oakland and Downtown Pittsburgh. Available Free to all CMU students in Skibo Lobby Tuesday April 7 from 12 Noon until 9 p.m.
funded by student activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 9
Another Tartan trivia first: Did you know?
by Maureen Brennan
President Cyert is one of the 1,000 most 
frequently cited economists in the last sev
eral volumes of the annual .Social Sc ience 
Citation Index. Thus, he was included in 
the Whos Who in Economics published by 
the University of London Institute of 
Education.
The author of six books and numerous 
papers, Cyert has received fellowships from 
the Ford Foundation and Guggenheim 
Foundation. He has honorary' degrees from 
the University of Gothenburg in Sweden, 
the University of Leuven in Belgium, VVaynesburg College and Westminster College. 
Cyerts other awards are th Outstanding 
Achievement Award from the University of
Minnesota and the Distinguished Scholar 
medal from Hofstra University. He is also a 
fellow of the American Statistical Asocia
li on and of the Econometric Society.
Besides civic duties as a trustee of 
Presbyterian-University and a direc tor of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Society, Cyert is a 
director of Koppers Company, Copperweld 
Corporation, American Standard Inc.,
Emergency loan funds depleted; monies frozen
by Monica Cellio
Students who wish to obtain emergency 
loans from the Student Affairs Office will 
not be able to receive them until the loan 
money already in circulation is paid back, 
according to Earle Swank, Dean of Student 
.Affairs.
The funding shortage is a result of an 
1 increase in student borrowing for both the
housing deposit and spring break. Many of 
the students who borrowed money for these 
purposes have not repaid them, and about 
$30,000 in loan money is currently in circu
lation. Said Swank, we were down to $500, 
so I set a ban on loans in case we need the 
money for a big emergency . Swank is con
cerned that the loan fund could go broke. 
He said that loans will again be available
Fraternity housing rates decreased
continued from page 1
HUD for the lighting project, and the uni
versity has not yet offered to help by contri
buting endowment money.
Reflecting on the high cost of housing 
Joseph said, the university could help out. 
The alumni endowment totals over $100 
million. Joseph suggested that the Univer
sity place some of this money back into 
capital improvements instead of putting all 
of the money into academics which receive 
aid from industries and corporations. 
Joseph said the university should help the 
students with meeting the cost of housing 
and education.
Resolution
We, the members of the United Fraternal 
Organization, urge that the Housing Div
ision of Auxiliary Services Department of 
Carnegie-Mellon University take the follwing actions:
1) Allow active participation by the frater
nities and sororities in the assesment of 
Capital Improvements. This includes input 
on the timetable for these projects, which 
projects have preference, the payment of the 
debt, and an opportunity to provide an alter
native project.
2) Consider the option oi a multi-year 
fraternity lease.
3) Give the sororities an opportunity to 
renegotiate their housing rates.
4) Begin lease negotiations early enough 
to provide sufficient time for UFO to ana
lyze the budget proposals and suggest possi
ble alternatives.
when most of the loans have been paid back.
Funding for the loan program comes 
primarily from gifts which are designated 
for this purpose Swank said, and therefore 
relief funds cannot be taken from other cam
pus sources.
Under the emergency loan program, a 
student may borrow up to $100 without 
interest. Repayment is expected within a 
month. After a month the student will 
recieve reminders, and if he does not pay, the 
money will be charged to his CMU account. 
However, if the money is charged to the 
students account it can take up to six 
months for the borrowed money to get back 
to the loan fund, according to Swank. He 
also stated that the warnings and billings are 
costly to administer, and that students 
should pay back their loans promptly.
Allegheny Ludlum Industries, and the First 
Boston Corporation.
Reamer P. Reynolds has been appointed 
as new director of corporate relations for 
CMU. He will be responsible for formulat
ing and implementing a development plan 
to attract and maintain support from 
corporations.
Ernest M. Waxbom, Jr. has been 
appointed as new director of estate plan
ning. He will be responsible for helping 
donors plan their gifts to the university 
through financial instruments such as 
annuities, charitable trusts, etc.
Gary Leatherman, a senior in Metallurgical 
Engineering and Materials Science, received 
the Outstanding Senior Award from the 
Pittsburgh chapter of the American Society 
of Metals. The award is based on academic 
performance, extracurricular activities, and 
the students motivation.
Submit entries for Did you know? to 
The Tartan, c/o Maureen Brennan, Skibo 
Rm. 50, by Wednesday for publication in 
the following Tuesday edition of The 
Tartan.
Hunt library regular schedule
(note extended hours)
Monday-Thursday 8:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m.*
Friday 8:00 a.m. -9:00 p.m.
Saturday 9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m.
Sunday 12:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m.*
* From 12:00 Midnight until 2:00 a.m. the basement and first floor of Hunt Library will be available for study purposes only. No other services or facilities will be available. In addition Reference Service hours have been extended to 9:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday and 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Saturday.
ADTICT
ENGINEERING DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M^
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
30 YEARS MO. WE 
PIONEERED LOW FAMES TO EUROPE. TODAY WEHE 
STILL AT IT.
$l
ONEWAY. STANDBYNY TO UVEM0OUOO
LWxbIT!WrH o! Nbn Y!rY rboWrU oDSYbo, nDoM S!URDrIb/ 
rbEbrvuoD!UG $249C50 (% U!rIug r!WU/ orDO Rurb) nMbU 
OWrSMuEb/ nDoM EouU/Ta RurbC Frbb nDUb nDoM /DUUbr, S!HUuS 
uRobrC ArDSbE bRRbSoDvb oMr!WHM Mua 14,1981, EWTjbSo o! SMuUHb 
uU/ H!vbrUIbUo uOOr!vugC AWrSMuEb oDSYboE DU oMb UCSCeC
See your travel agent or call Icelandair. In New Ybrk City 757-8585, 
elsewhere call 800-555-1212 for the toll tree number in your area.ICELANDAIR
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE
<nV
,er
Peace Corps and VISTA Volunteers
For information contact a recruiter, Mon.- 
Fri., 9-5pm: U.S. Customs House, Rm. 102A,
2nd & Chestnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19106. 
Toll Free (800) 462-1589 Ext. 66.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Take out a 1981-82 Food Service Contract and 
compare these rates
80/81 contract plans
21 meals per wk $665 sem 
15 meals per wk 550 sem 
9 meals per wk 395 sem
81 /82 contract plans
21 meals per wk $545 sem 
15 meals per wk 450 sem 
10 meals per wk 350 sem 
5 lunches per wk 215 sem
Register now for a Food Service Contract. Save time 
and effort next fall. Sign up for your choice of the 
best food plans in years.
Contract meal plans have been increased from 3 to 4 and 
rates reduced.
Here is our calendar for 1981 -82
Sun, Aug 30  dinner (year begins)
Wed, Nov 25  lunch (Thanksgiving break) 
Sun, Nov 29  dinner (return)
Fri, Dec 18  dinner (semester break)
Sun, Jan 10  dinner (return)
Fri, Mar 19  lunch (spring break)
Sun, Mar 28  dinner (return)
Fri, May 14  dinner (year ends)
Also new for next year: contract holders in the meal 
plan system can use all Food Service facilities, 
whenever open, on a cash allowance basis.
These are our plans for Theme Dinners and Special 
Events next year 
Wed, Sept 16  Mexican Fiesta
Wed, Oct 14  Apple Festival
Thurs, Oct 29  Halloween Dinner
Fri, Nov 13  Lucky # Day
Tues, Nov 24  Thanksgiving Dinner
Tues, Dec 8  Mini Reception
Tues, Dec 17  Holiday Dinner
Wed, Jan 13  Caribbean Island Escape
Thurs, Jan 28  Healthy Foods
Mon, Feb 22  Mardi Gras
Tues, Feb 23  Shrove Tuesday Menu
Wed, Feb 24  Ash Wednesday (Hot Cross Buns)
Wed, Mar 17  St. Patrick's Dinner
Thurs, Apr 1  April Fool's Lunch
Fri, Apr 9  Good Friday (Hot Cross Buns)
Wed, Apr 21  Hawaiian Luau
Tues, May 4  Maifest
Wed, May 12  Strawberry Festival
In addition.we'II have our weekly premium entree 
night, and during mid term and final exam weeks, 
we'll provide coffee and tea  free  all night long 
for contract holders.
Terms and Conditions
1. General: The registrant understands that aPood Service ID
card and a contract meal plan or Food Service account are 
for use only by the person to whom they are provided. Food 
Service ID cards, contracts and accounts are not transfer
able to another person. If lost, a missing card must be report
ed promptly to the Food Service Office in Skibo Room 27 for 
cancellation to prevent further use, and to arrange for ID card 
replacement. There is a $7 replacement fee for a picture ID 
card. /
2. Contract Meal Plans: The registrant understands that con
tract meal plans are for two full semesters. The contract 
charge is non-transferable except as the Housing charge or 
(if Housing is not applicable) the tuition charge also is re
fundable. Contract holders may change from one contract 
meal plan level to another only during the first two weeks of 
the first semester each year. There is a $15 charge for such 
changes.
3. Food Service Accounts: The registrant understands that 
Food Service accounts are for two full semesters. The 
account balance remaining at the end of the fall semester 
carries over to the spring semester. The account balance is 
refundable after the end of the academic year, or when the 
Housing charge or (if Housing is not applicable) the tuition 
charge is also refundable. Food Service account balances 
may be increased at any time in minimum increments of $50. 
There is a $15 fee to open an account (not applicable to 
contract holders) and a $5 service charg for each subse
quent deposit.
4. The University reserves the right to raise or lower a la carte 
prices at any time, to change hours of service, and to open 
new facilities or close existing facilities as its operations may 
require.
Fill out the Registration Form now and return it to 
Room 27, Skibo.
Fbod Service Registration Form. Carnegie-Mellon University
Nam Last  First Middle
Horn Address Number Street
City
( )________________________________________________________________________
Home Telephone Registrants Signature
College Class (circle one): Freshman Sophomore Junior
Select from the following:
Contract Meal Plan (Check one)
___21 Meals per week: $545 per semester
___15 Meals per week: $450 per semester
___10 Meals per week: $350 per semester (not available to
freshmen or transfer students in dormitory rooms)
___ 5 Meals (lunch only) Monday-Friday: $215 per semester
(not available to freshmen or transfer students in dormitory 
rooms)
Social Security  
(Apartment)
State Zip/Country
Senior Graduate Student
Food Service Accounts
(Available to freshmen and transfer students in dormitory rooms only in combination with contract meal plans)
_____$15 Account Fee (not applicable to contract holders)
$______________Enter Initial Account Deposit ($50 increments)
_______________Total (Food Service/Cashier Office use only)

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Hot sun and Frisbee are a natural!
CMU
bursts
into
S - ' '
<*
spring!
Sthenley Park picnics are the sure sign of warm weather s arrival.Kite Flying 101: its not all fun and games.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanApril 7, 1981
College complaints-well be listening, will you?
We are pleased to announce that as of this 
week, the Communication series is com
plete. However, in an effort to work with 
Student Senate on its new Has CMU Got 
You By the Balls? Academic Affairs ComOpen forum: 
College of AMS 
Letters due Thurs.
Third Prize: Cupcake from AB Dance Honorable Mention: Spike/
DTD: Ugliest Man on Campus
On March 31 and April 1, Alpha Phi 
Omega sponsored the annual Ugliest Man 
on Campus (UMOC) contest. Each penny 
collected on behalf of a candidate *was 
counted as one vote. Ballot stuffing was not 
only legal but encouraged.
This was how DTD promoted their ano
nymous candidate to be this years winner. 
Second place was acquired by Frank Lefkin from ZBT. Third place is held by
Cupcake, the only female contestant, 
from AB Dance. Congratulations!
The three contestants who did not win 
were apparently not as ugly as they thought. 
Together, the six contestants earned a sub
stantial amount of money for Meals-onWheels, a local organization dial delivers 
hot food once a day to the elderly and others 
unable to cook for themselves.
mittee, Features will reserve up to one page 
per week for letters concerning weaknesses 
and strengths of each of the colleges. One 
college will be taken each week-watch The 
Tartan for announcement of the upcoming 
college of concern.
Letters must be brief, to the point, and 
contain constructive criticism. Administra
tion and faculty are encouraged to give their
First prize: DTD.
opinions also. Names will be withheld 
unless the writer requests otherwise, but all 
letters must be signed and include gradua
tion year and department.
Any letters not following the above guide
lines will either be edited or not printed at 
all. The Tartan hopes all students will 
this opportunity to learn more about their 
university, as well as to offer valuable 
insight and solutions to existing problems. 
The Tartan also hopes that 
Mellon administration and faculty will look 
at the viewpoints openly and honesdy when 
deciding upcoming policy.
The undergraduate college of G.S.I.A., 
Administration and Management Science, 
will be discussed next week, April 21st. Sub
mit letters to The Tartan, c/o Maureen 
Brennan, Skibo 50, by midnight Thurs.
Second prize: Frank Lefkin from ZBT
Parsons School of Design 
Summer in France!Japan
Studies in Interior Design, The History of Architecture, and The Decorative Arts  July 3-31
This program is offered in collaboration with the 
world famous Musee des Arts Decoratifs. The 
museum staff supplement the Parsons faculty with 
specialized presentations that include aspects of the 
museums collection normally not available to the 
public. Excursions to points outside of Paris include 
Fontainebleau, Versailles and Vaux le Vicomte. 
Courses offered: The History of French Architecture, 
Studies in European Decorative Arts.
The total cost for 6 credits of study, round-trip airfare 
and double occupancy accommodations in a 4-star 
hotel is $2250.
Summer Workshops in Japan Clay, Fibers, Metal July 20-August 20
In co-sponsorship with The American Craft Council 
courses will be offered in ceramics, metals, textiles 
and the history of Japanese crafts. Workshops will 
be supervised by master Japanese craftsmen and 
the Parsons faculty. Classes will be held at the 
studio facilities of the Tokyo Design Gakuin College 
with supplemental visits to museums, kiln sites, 
textile facilities and metalsmithing shops.
Cost of the 4-week program, including 6 credits of 
study, round-trip airfare to Tokyo* and double occu
pancy accommodations in a deluxe hotel is $2700.
* Costs may vary slightly due to fluctuations in the 
dollar or airline prices.
Dean Vieri R. Salvadori 
Parsons School of Design 
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011 
ATTN: PARIS/JAPAN PROGRAMS
Please send brochure(s) on:
? Parsons in Paris, July 3-August. 14
? Interior Design, July 3-31
? Photography in Paris, July 3-26
? Fashion Design in Paris, July 3-31
? Summer Workshops in Japan, July 20-Aug. 20
Name
Address
CityStateZip
Parsons in Paris  July 3-August 14
Paint on the Left Bank, explore prehistoric caves in 
the Dordogne, visit the masterpieces of Renaissance 
Art in Tuscany.
Courses include: Painting, Drawing, Art History, 
French History, Language & Literature, Landscape 
Painting & Prehistoric Anthropology.
Cost for the 6-week program including 9 credits of 
study, round-trip airfare and double occupancy 
accommodations with continental breakfast is $2350.
Photography in Paris  July 3-26
Study the history and practice of this art with exten
sive darkroom facilities available on the Parsons 
campus. Courses offered: The History of 
Photography, Photography.
Program costs including 6 credits of study, round-trip 
airfare and double occupancy accommodations with 
breakfast in a 4-star hotel are $2150.
Fashion Design in Paris  July 3-31
Study the history and contemporary trends of French 
fashion design in Paris under the supervision of 
museum staff and practicing designers. Haute 
Couture and ready-to-wear collections will be seen. 
Courses offered: The History of European Costume, 
Contemporary Trends in French Fashion.
The total cost for 6 credits of study, round-trip airfare 
and double occupancy accommodations in a 4-star 
hotel is $2250.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 13
Spring Fling features George Gee at Carnegie Music Hall
by David M. Land
All of the sure signs of spring are here: 
birds singing, blustery days next to sunny 
days, and the H&SS Spring Fling. Since 
tickets went on sale a few weeks ago, theyve 
sold well, and all is in readiness for 
the Baker/Porter Hall denizens bash.
The entire campus community is invited 
to swing to the big band sound of George 
Gee and his Make-Believe Ballroom Orches
tra. George is excited and, as he characteristi
cally is before any big event, a bit nervous 
about the bands biggest event yet. Were 
eager to bring the best possible swing 
sounds we can for your dancing pleasure. 
Not only am I excited, but the rest of the
Dean Crecine will serve 
breakfast-in-bed to 
the first place winner.
band is up for this gig. We hope to transfer 
the atmosphere of the 40s to the 80s. Be 
prepared to swing!
As anyone who heard the band at their 
recent AB coffeehouse will recall, they will 
keep you moving to a rhythm seldom heard
in this era of the Plasmatics and Chris Cross. 
The sophisticated big band sound is neither 
punk nor puerilityits all punch and 
beauty.
The H&SS faculty is up for this gig, 
too. Your Spring Fling ticket will not only 
whisk you back to the 40s, but it will pro
vide you with a chance of winning one of a 
great line-up of prizes that the facultys come 
up with.
Prof. Cottrell will serve 
spaghetti dinner to 
a winner and 3 friends.
First prize, offered by Dean Crecine, is 
breakfast in bed for the winner and three 
friends, delivered to your door with the 
latest Sunday New York Times, and a dis
creet knock on the door. A number of 
foreward-looking students have already 
arranged their quartets.
Prof. Cottrell will serve a spaghetti dinner 
to another winner and three friends 
perhaps the night before the previous prize, 
if two members erf the same lucky quartet 
win!
Dean Lloyd will give 
her own fresh-baked 
cookies to a winner.
Assoc. Dean Tony Penna will clean one 
rooma much needed, and much soughtafter prize, indeed. Baked-goods fans will vie 
for Dean Lloyds prize of her very own deli
cious fresh-baked cookies. George Gee will 
let one winner conduct his orchestra for his 
or her favorite big band piece. Mory Brenner 
will present an original computercomposed classical music piece written and 
recorded just for another winner, and Sue 
Frank and Jay Devine will join yet another 
winner on a luncheon date. There will be 
several additional suprizes, too. All of the 
awards are designed to maximize fun.
The H&SS Spring Fling will get under
way on Friday, April 10 at 7:00 PM, and the 
swinging will continue until midnight. 
Come to the Carnegie Music Hall foyer 
dressed in classy contemporary clothes or 
flashy forties fashion, but however you 
come, come prepared to swing!
Tickets for the H&SS Spring Fling are
still available in Baker Hall 161, for a mere 
$5.00 for students, $6.00 for faculty 
members. With music like Georges and 
prizes like these, its a steal. See you there, 
and remember The Make-Believe Ballroom 
motto: It dont mean a thing if it aint got 
that swing!.
photo by Robert Zusman
Dana Dunn, President of the H&SS Student 
Advisory Council, has been active in plan
ning the Spring Fling.
YDUHM/EIOaWS TO DISCOVER THE COMPUTER AGE.
If you've never used a computer, you're missing something.
Programming your own computer is more fun than,playing 
backgammon. More challenging than crossword puzzles. V 
And more practical than about anything else you could do.
Because the fact is, you're living in the age of computers.
And now you can discover what it's all about. For 10 days, at no 
risk and no obligation, you can have your very own Sinclair 
ZX80 computer. To play with, experiment with, learn with.
ANYONE CAN USE IT.
You'll discover the ZX80 is incredibly easy to use for anyone 
10years or older. You don't have to know anything about com
puters when you startout. We'll send you a complete 128-page 
guide that takes you step-by-step into the world of computing.
In one day, you'll be writing your own programs!
The ZX80 will absorb you for hours as you find new ways to 
use it. You can create games. Home budgets. Math lessons for {SgE1raectTJHu J$!
your children. Almost anything, in fact. Then to store your programs, you can use any ordinary
27 .Wha tc nyouc pyu ?a YrOig l?aaCs
THE COMPUTER GUIDE IS YOURS FOREVER. !a5 yours to keepFor your 10-day home trial Just call our toll-free number and 35 a ree 9ift 
order with your Master Charge or VISA. Or send the coupon along with a check or money order for the 
remarkably low price of $199.95, plus shipping. (Other personal computers cost two or three times as much!)
And we'll send you the Sinclair*ZX80 personal computer. 
It's yours for 10 days. If you decide you don't want to keep it, 
then send it back. We'll give you a full refund. Either way the 
128-page guide to computing-a $5.95 value-is yours to 
keep as a free gift.
But we have to be honest with you. After you've discov, u ered the fun of owning a ZX80 computer, we don't thinkFor an extra S49.95, you can also have the Sinclair Computer . ~Learning Lab-a set of 100 experiments and lessons on cassette yOU II Send it back, tapes that make the ZX80 Itself your teacher.IO-DAYMONEY-BACK HOME TRIAL CALL TOLL FREE800-543-3000.
Ask for operator #508. In Ohio call 800-582-1364 Phones open 24 hours a day. 7 days a week
EVERYTHING YOU NEED. For just S199.95, you get
inclaiiMail to: Sinclair Research Ltd.
One Sinclair Plaza, Nashua. N.H. 03061 
Check one
? ZX80 Personal Computer S199.95 
* Shipping $ 4.00
? ZX80 Personal Computer 
Computer Learning Lab 
Shipping
SI 99 95 
S 49.95 
S 4.00
Total $203 95Total$25390
If I'm not fully satisfied with my purchase 1 can return it in 10 days for a full refund
The 128-page guide is mine to keep.
Namp
Arirtrp^
SINCLAIR RESEARCH LTD
City. State, Zip_______________________________________________________________________ i
 "US dollars HAYV. ONE SINCLAIR PLAZA NASHUA N.H. 03061 L____________________________________________________UHA& _ I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 7, 1981
Justin Horan, President of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce.
Very Important Pghers
Horan: Chamber 
of Commerce Pres.
by Molly Silver /
Ask a person unfamiliar with Pittsburgh 
his impression of our city. Dont be sur
prised when you hear about an ugly smog 
ridden place thats dark at noon and void of 
anything and every thing cultured and 
cosmopolitan.
Reputations are hard to break. Subse
quently, those who are unfamiliar with 
post-Renaissance Pittsburgh are unaware 
that the citys steel and aluminum skyscrap
ers tower over a place with thriving arts, 
growing industries, and a future which will 
make Pittsburgh one of the most cosmopoli
tan cities within the next decade. ^
Justin Horan, President erf the Greater 
Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce, a man 
who has worked tirelessly, is succeeding, in 
ridding Pittsburgh of its stigma. Horan, 
who was this years recipient of the Pitts
burgh Jaycees Presidents award for exceptional service to the Pittsburgh 
community, and one of the several honorees at the Jaycees "Man of the Year dinner, 
says that what is unique about Pittsburgh is 
the people itselfThey are extremely hard
working and family oriented. There is a 
healthy ethnic vitality in the community, 
and this makes for a vibrant and interesting 
mix that is uniquely Pittsburgh.
With the inherent warmth he finds in 
Pittsburghers, Horan, a former New Eng
lander and graduate of the University of 
New Hampshire, is happy to call Pitts
burgh his home. Horan is the father of eight 
children and three grandchildren.
Communication Week 6: Administration
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
President Richard M. Cyert, x2200 
Assistant to the President: Richard Barnhart, x2202
Athletics and Physical Education
Director: James E. Banner, x2212
Development
Office of the Director of Development 
Director Alvin P. Brannick, x2135
Director Foundations & Small Corporations: Victor P. Gegles, x2032 
Alumni Relations
Director: Linda E. Schorr. x2060, \V7H 504 
Associate Director Robbee Baker, x2060 ,
Development and Fund Raising
Assoc. Dir. of Development: Robert McCurdy, x2019
Director of Annual Giving: Susan Stitt, x2020
Director of Special Gifts: Frances L. Grodecoeur, x2022
Estate Planning
Director: Terry Ray, x2017
Records
Manager, Records & Reports Irene Durkin, x2030
Public Relations
Public Relations
Director: R. Keith Moore, x2900, BH 160
Senior Account Exec, Editor Alumni Mag.: Ed Delaney, x2900
Director of News Services: Frank Raczkiewicz, x2900
Director Science & Technology Info: David Lewin, x3751
Sports Information Director: Ron Cichowicz, x3078
Head, Photographic Services: Jerry McCavitt, x2900
PR Accounts Coordinator: Mary Woehrel, x2900
Account Executive-CFA: Ann Curran, x2900
Admin. Asst.: Maryann Patross Moore, x2900 v
Publications and Campus Printing
Director of Publications: Timothy Basinski, x2970, PH 15
Art Pirector, Publications: Tom Kosak, x2970
Student Affairs
Office of the Dean-Student Affairs
Dean-Student Affairs: Earle Swank, x2076, WTH 206
Associate Dean of Students: Lois Cox, x2073
Campus Activities Center
Director: Anhe W7itchner, x2107, Skibo 103
Frat Advisor and Skibo Bldg. Mgr.: Jeff Rutkowski, x2107, Skibo 103 
Counseling Center
Director: Robert Morgan, x2922, BH 135D 
Health Department
Director: Dr. Edward Bamonte, x2157 .
Off-Campus Housing
Off-Campus Housing Advisor: Roberta Dillon, x3520 
Residence Life
Director: Gerald Marks, x2994, MG El02
OFFICE OF THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT/PROVOST
Senior VP and Provost: Richard Van Horn, x2056, WH 610 
Associate Provost: Roland Smith, x3627
Administrative Systems
Auxiliary Services
Director: Oscar Mayer, x2051, WH 301 
Associate Director: Irene Daugherty, x2051 
Art Store
Manager: Francesca Uranker, x2968 
Bookstore
Business Manager: Richard Alberti, x2966
Merchandise Manager: borothy Ann Reidelbach, x2966
Child Care Center
Director: Marsha Poster, x2149
Food Services
Director: Kenneth Stover, x2127, Skibo 
Housing
Director: Gerald Dalton, x2139~
Parking Services
Coordinator: Sylvia Austin, x2052
Vending Services
Manager: John Halladay, x2138
Business and Finance
Office of the Director-Business & Finance 
Director: Frederick Rogers, x2100, WH 416 
Accounting Services
Office Manager: Donna Lee Boglitz, x2089 
Budget and Insurance Services: x2013 
Cashiers Office: x2094 
Controllers Office: x2100 
Federal Compliance Office: x3747 
Naval Research Office: x2093 
Payroll: x2097 
Personnel Services: x2046 
Physical Plant
Director: Michael Corletti, x2918, PH 23C
Manager: Joseph Greenaway, x2912
Purchasing: x2043
Receiving: x2930
Research Contracts: x2091
Treasurers Office: x2008
Office of Administration
Office of the Director-Administration 
Director: David Wahl, x2276, WH 316 
Post Office
Postmaster: John Barbour, x2928, BH 154 
Security
Director: Charles Westbrooks, x2323, BH155 
Telephone Services: x2899, PH2
Horan has had a prestigious career he has 
served as Chairman of the Board of Regents 
of the Institute for Organization Manage
ment at Syracuse University; he is a Past 
President of the New England Association 
of Chamber of Commerce Executives and a 
Past Present of the Massachusetts Associa
tion of Commerce Executives; currendy he
is serving as the 1981 Vice Chairman and 
member of the Board of Directors of the 
.American Chamber of Commerce Execu
tives Association, and he is a member of the 
United States Committee on Chamber 
Management.
An avid baseball fan. perhaps Horans 
greatest honor was receiving the honorary
Pirate contract by the Pittsburgh Pirates as * 
a token of appreciation to one of the people 
who has made a great effort to help us 
through the years. Last year an economic 
study commissioned by the Chamber deter
mined that the Pirates generated $33 million 
annually to the citys economy.
continued on page 15
NOW OPEN
The Munhall Golf 
DRIVING RANGE
HOMESTEAD - DUQUESNE ROAD
Only a short 10-minute Drive from Squirrel HMI
DIRECTIONS
Across Homestead Hi-Level Bridge. Straight ahead up the hid 
(West St.) past Homestead Hospital. Turn left at Bi-Rite Gas 
Station to Homestead-Duqoesne Rd., Range is % mile on the 
left.OPEN EVERY DAY
11 AM  11 PM461 - 9246
I SURVIVED SKIBO T-SHIRTSNow available in a 4-color design. Printed on a white shirt with red trim. Enclose this coupon along with a check for $6.00 per shirt to: The T-Shirt' Co. c/o Student Corp. Skibo 103 Campus Mail 
Please allow three weeks for delivery. Offer expires April 3rd.
I SURVIVED
w '^4SKIBOCAFETERIA
Name,__Address. Tel. No,
Small Medium I .arge X Large

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 15
World Perspective 81
International colloquium on marketing, advertising, management, finance
by Kathy Krummert
International awareness these days means 
more than sampling foreign cuisine and 
celebrating ethnic holidays. To be interna
tionally awareto be genuinely informed 
about the rest of the worldrequires under
standing what makes the worldwide system 
tickcommercially, economically, politi
cally, and culturally. As a result of rapid 
advances in technology and communica
tions, the world getting smaller and we are 
increasingly interdependent on one anoth
ers actionsthat becomes more evident 
daily.
World Perspective 1981 is a seminar on 
international business and management, 
marketing, finance, and advertising. Speak
ers will discuss the United Statesdevelopment in the international arena, and its role 
in these areas today. AIESEC (eyesek) is 
sponsoring the event this Thursday, April 9, 
from 7:00 to 9:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room 
in Skibo Hall.
Seminars are an effective way to promote
international awareness, which is one of 
AIESECs primary goals. Since January, the 
CMU committee has sponsored three speak
ers, one each on investing, economic fore
casting, and labor relations. World 
Perspective 1981 is the committees largest 
project this spring; they have organized an 
impressive group of people to address 
these relevant topics. The four guests are:
Pat Coggins, President of Sun Inter
national, Inc., who will speak on interna
tional marketing;
Robert Gemmill, Assistant Director 
of the International Finance Division of the 
Federal Reserve Board, who will speak on 
international finance;
Jack Laffin, Director erf Interna
tional Communications at Rockwell Inter
national, who will speak on international 
advertising; and
John Pavlik, Account Executive 
with IBM International, who will speak on 
international business and management.
The development, growth, and outcome 
of all of these areas affects each of us directly 
or indirectlyeveryone is invited to attend. 
Refreshments will be served.
Chamber of Commerce promotes Pittsburgh
photo by Doug Ellis 
PIKAs fire truck takes a spring drive.
continued from page 14
Horan has succeeded in making the 
chamber more than  vehicle for citywide 
public relations. The Chamber of Com
merce has as its primary function the over
seeing of economic growth and 
development in Pittsburgh. The overriding 
philosophy behind Horans Chamber is to 
promote a trusting and working relation
ship between government and business. 
Horan attributes the great success of Pitts
burghs Chamber to the fact business and 
government trust each other and work 
toward common goals. The Chamber acts 
as a bridge between two segments of the 
community, being somewhat of a 
matchmaker.
The healthy relationship between govern
ment and business has allowed programs 
such as: Dinamo, a program where labor 
and government are working together to 
expedite the modernization of the naviga
tions of the Allegheny, Monogahela and 
Upper Ohio Rivers; Compac, a joint effort 
by government and business to improve the 
effectiveness of Allegheny County govern
ment; and Renaissance II, a catch phrase for 
all of the new developments going on in 
Pittsburgh.
When asked what kinds of new business 
he would like to attract to Pittsburgh, 
Horan first said that he would like to 
expand the corporate headquarters we have 
because "nothing succeeds like success. We 
do need something to pick up the slack in 
the steel industry and other industrial jobs. 
Horan would like to see the convention bus
iness succeed in Pittsburgh, and also 
believes that the research and development 
at the colleges and universities is a growing 
dimension that will create new jobs for the 
region. Pittsburgh is one of the key research 
and development spots in the nation.
In addressing the question of what the 
Chamber of Commerce is doing for the 
human needs of the community, Horan 
said, The Chamber of Commerce is a mem
bership organization. Its programs are 
designed to benefit its members who are 
men and women of Pittsburgh. Making a 
better community is our function and will
result in better jobs for the people, thus 
improving the climate erf business and at the 
bottom line help create additional jobs.
Concerning the new and strong conserva
tive voice in Washington and its effect on the 
business community, Horan feels that the 
immediate result will be difficult because of 
the inevitable belt tightening. However, 
Horan feels that the American government 
has been too large, taking on all responsibil
ities from the womb to the tomb. He 
believes that a smaller federal government 
will bring key decision-making closer to 
home where it will be easier to keep a watch
ful eye on legislation and regulation that 
affects the people of Pennsylvania. This, 
Horan feels, will be beneficial in the long 
run.
Horan feels he is fortunate to be working 
on the development of such a growing and 
exciting city. I have the best job in towTi, 
said Horan with conviction, I work with 
the keenest minds in the community on 
some of the most important elements that 
will affect the economic viability in Pitts
burgh today and tomorrow.
COPING IN A PREDOMINANTLY 
WHITE ENVIRONMENT
Sunday,
T uesday,
April 12
Coping in the Predominantly White Environment"
Dr. Marion Oliver, Millersville State College 
Dr. Gary Harris, Howard University
April 14
"Coping in an Industrial Environment"
Mr. James H. Scott, Proctor & Gamble 
Mr. David Fox, Proctor and Gamble
Thursday, April 16
"Coping in a Predominantly White Educational Institution"
Dr. James Bishop, Amherst College 
Dr. Lee Brown, California Institute of Technology
GSIA Auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
Co-sponsored by the Minority Student Affairs Committee 
and the National Society of Balck Engineers

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, CARNEGII Reserved Seal 
$5.00 vi
TICKETS AVA
On sale W* 
4 tickets ca

---------------------------------------------------

uitertammem
Fraternities and sororities shine in Greek Sing
by Adam Lauzar & Kathy Barsom
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys Greeks 
literally lit up the stage last Friday night 
with an impressive evening of song and 
dance in the universitys annual Greek Sing. 
Participating in Greek Sing 1981 at the Syria 
Mosque were fourteen groupstwo sorori
ties, six fraternities, and six mixed groups 
with proceeds to benefit the Pittsburgh 
Home for Crippled Children in Squirrel 
Hill.
Winning the first place trophy and mone
tary' award in the All-Sorority category was 
Kappa Alpha Theta with selections from 
Oliver, directed by Maura Garrity. There 
was no second place in that category.
In the All-Fraternity category, Zeta Beta 
Tau, performing selections from Fiddler on 
the Roof, under the direction of Steve Kane 
and John Franjione won first place, which 
also included a monetary award. Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon recieved the second place 
award for their selections from My Fair 
Lady, directed by Phil Nemy.
In the mixed catergory, first place went to 
the sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma and the 
brothers of Phi Kappa Theta. Replete with 
tap dancers, the group sang numbers from 
the musical Anything Goes by Cole Porter, 
directed by Sue Swierzerski, Michel Hackett, and Mark Storm. The second place 
award was presented to the brothers and 
friends of Pi Lambda Phi who wrote origi
nal lyrics to familiar tunes satirizing every
day life at CMU under the heading of 
CMU Songs Strike Back. The group was 
under the musical direction of Donald 
Zimmerman.
Each group was permitted eight minutes 
to leave their mark and impress the panel of 
five judges. Performances exceeding the 
time limit resulted in penalization in the 
scoring. Seven music related categories such 
as tonality, diction, and delivery, etc. were 
used in the judges evaluation of each act.
The two and a half hour program proved 
to be entertaining throughout. Though the 
Majority of the groups chose to perform
Hie name Santana usually brings to 
miruha picture of a battery of la tin percus
sionists behind their leader, who leans back
wards, eyes clenched shut in concentration, 
;,s he squeezes the notes from his guitar 
Santana was the first band to suc<^*sjifully blend Latin and Afro ry thins with 
,c*k music. Originally known as the San1x11 la Blues Band; the group built a strong 
following at Bill Grahms Fillmore Audito
rium in Sail Francisco, eventually headlinselections from famous musicals including: 
Oaklahoma (Chi Omega and Kappa 
Sigma), The Tallest Man (Delta Upsilon), 
Damn Yankees (Beta Theta Pi and Freinds), 
and Gypsy (Delta Delta Delta). The 
methods used to convey their talents varied 
significantly.
The gimmicks employed ranged from florescent hands and illuminated breasts to 
Sigma Nus serious reflection on where one 
would rather have a perspiration problem 
spoken in the middle of their original rock 
composition.
The brothers of Alpha Tau Omega, by 
spoofing the entire formality of the event, 
provided the evenings most humorous and 
satirical moments. Listed in the program as 
being in the Mixed Catergory competition, 
ATO surprised everyone when their little 
sisters turned out to be brothers in drag. 
That was only the begining. Someone in an 
ape suit doing an Ed Sullivan impersona
tion then came out to introduce the act.
Disregarding the rule that each act must 
perform their own music, ATO had their 
ape announcer holding up a cassette 
recorder to the microphone providing the 
groups music. Ken McCall, their leader, 
also dressed in drag, gave a lengthy explana
tion for why ATO hadnt entered the comp 
tition in a traditional fashion, lamenting the 
lack of singing talent and saying, It wasn't 
the ATO way.
The group, defying all regulations and 
standards, had chaotic choreography, little 
singing ability, and a non-school roster 
member in the group: a boy of about eight 
years. However, the act was hilarious, and 
only slightly without taste.
Leading off the program were the beauti
ful and talented sisters and pledges of TriDelt singing selections from Gypsy. 
Appropriately enough for the song You 
Gotta Have a Gimmick, the Tri-Delts dis
played their well rounded talents with their 
gimmicka strategically placed string of 
colored lights (use your imagination). 
Bringing back memories of Busby Berkely
national acclaim thanks to the Woodstock 
festival in 1969, the same year their first LP, 
Santana, debuted. Two hit singles; Jingo 
and Evil Ways followed and the album 
turned platinim within a year.
More hit albums and singles followedOye Come Va," Black Magic Woman 
No One to Depend On. As the numerous 
personnel changes occurred in the group, 
the bands direction began to change. Guita
rist Neal Schon and singer keyboardist 
continued on page 18
and the Rockettes the Tri-Delts shimmied 
and shaked their way into the audiences 
hearts.
In keeping with Pi Lambda Phi tradition, 
the house again won the appreciation of 
both the audience and CMUs administra
tion by creating humerous lyrics to well 
known songs. The old standard Camelot 
was easily transformed into Marriot, a
Faculty, a remake of Dr. Doolittles favorite 
tune If I Could Talk to the Animals, subtlely highlighted the lack of communication 
between the universitys faculty and student 
body.
The remaining groups included Pi 
Kappa Alpha doing their rendition of Big 
Band Favorites, Theta Xi recreating a night 
at the Hop, Delta Tau Delta doing Bill 
Bailey Wont You Please Come Home.
For the first time in the history of the 
Greek Sing competition a monetary award 
of a thousand dollars, donated by Walter 
Cathie, Director of Financial Aid, was given 
to the winners of the All-Sorority and AllFraternities categories.
Bud Yorkin came to Camegie-Mellon Sat
urday Night, April 4, to present the awards 
for the first annual New Play Festival. Yor
kin, a CMU graduate in Electrical Engineer
ing, posted $10,000 to be shared among the 
winning artists.
Yorkin, the producer of such classic televi
sion programs as All in the Family  and 
Maude announced his dedication to the 
future of the New Play Festival. He also 
credited Mel Shapiro the head of the drama 
department with the renaissance of the thea
tre program at CMU. Both Yorkin and Sha
piro received standing ovations from the 
audience which included President and 
Mrs. Cyert, Dr. and Mrs. Van Horn, Dean 
and Mrs. Midani and Claire Nictem, the 
head of the theatre division for Warner 
Communications. Nictem was one of the 
four judges for the playwritingcompetition.
The awards ceremony achieved the excite
ment of the Academy Awards as Yorkin 
began to announce the directing and playw
riting awards. The directing awards were 
judged by a panel which included Shapiro, 
and faculty members Greg Lehane and 
Angela Diamgrosia. The first place award 
in directing, which was awarded for any 
master show or senior project this school
The judges in the competition were: Dr. 
Thomas Caruso, choir director at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and a CMU Alumnus 
who has worked with The Civic Light 
Opera and The Pittsburgh Opera; Ann 
Baker, musical director at Verona High 
School and a CMU graduate; David Crantz, 
promotion director at WTAE-TV; A1 Homberg, musical director at Duquesne Univer
sity (who happened to give Steeler
and music teacher who has performed with 
The Pittsburgh Opera.
\ N
Greek Sing/Swing 1981 was run and
arranged entirley by the Greeks. Much credit 
for the smoothness of the operation must be 
given to Co-Chairmen Debbie Brandwene 
and Robert Dudas.
Originality, creativity, and enthusiasm 
was evident in the performances. The selec
tions from the old standard musicals, as well 
as the new original compositions were both 
performed and received with equal enthusi
asm. CMUs fraternities and sororities dis
played their impressive talent, and judging 
by the audiences reaction, their hard work 
was well worth it.
year, went to Jorge Guerra for his work on 
All Together Now, one of the eleven new 
plays. Second and third prizes went to Mat
thew Vaky and Daniel Wilson respectively.
The playwriting awards were eligible for 
only the authors of the plays in the New 
Play Festival. The scripts and not the pro
ductions were judged by the panel, which 
included Ms. Nictem, Sylvie Drake, the 
drama critic for the Los Angeles Times, 
James Rosenberg, playwriting instructor at 
CMU and Michael Shamata, the produc
tion coordinator for the drama department.
The first prize for playwriting was 
awarded to F. J. Hartland for A Piano 
Flayer With Sad Eyes. Hartland was 
genuinely surprised as he accepted his 
award, saying that he had prepared himself 
not to be surprised by the outcome erf the 
awards, but that his victory had shocked 
him.
John Homer won second place for Big 
and Little, a one-act play, and Chris Espistios Children in a Stone took third prize.
Ihe ceremony took place after the Festi
vals finale, Finals Week by Jack Rowley, 
the only musical of the drama series. A 
catered reception capped the gala evening in 
the Alumni Concert Hall. ,
Santana comes to CMU
On Friday, April 24th, the AB Concerts ing shows with the likes of Taj Mahal, the 
Committee will present Spring Carnival Youngbloods and Melanie before they had 
Concert 81 featuring Santana at 8 p.m. in even recorded. The young band recieved 
the Camegie-Mellon University Gym.
tongue-m-cheek takeoff on our plagued Quarterback Terry Bradshaw guitar lessons) 
food service. If I Could Talk to the an(j getty Lou Rosskamp, a private voice
Bud Yorkin gives award 
at New Play Festival
The sisters and pledges of Delta Delta Delta perform a sizzling number from Gypsy.
photo by Doug tins
The brothers of Kappa Sigma and sisters of Chi Omega sing The Farmer and the Cowman.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanApril 7, 1981
Becoming a Link Engineer has made a big diiierence in my career. I wanted a challenge. And the chance to design something exciting. Link gives me that chance and more.
Modem simulation technology was bom at our company more than fifty years ago and ever since then we've been the industry's leader in the design and manufacturing oi aviation and aerospace training devices. Our trainers can realistically fly you from New York to LA. and Houston to the moon without ever leaving their hangar.
A WVTS0I  I* s I N C E R COMPM*
Binghamton New York 13902
Were looking lor graduates with degrees in Engineering (EE, ME, IE) Aero and Computer Engineering. See us on campus or contact A. C. Eswoithy  Link Division of Singer, Binghamton, New York (607) 772-356L
Link Simulation is Future Engineering
Missed Oui On Campus Interviews? Send, your resume tc A.C. Esworthy, Link Division oi SingerBinghamton, New York 13902
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Santana to play at Spring Carnival 81
continued from page 17 
Gregg Rolie left to form Journey after the 
release of Caravanserai. The fourth 
album for the group, showed the jazzier 
influences that had been absorbing so much 
of Carlos Santanas energies. Artists such as 
Coltrane, Charles Lloyd, McCoy Tyner, 
Thelonius Monk, Miles Davis and the 
group Weather Report provided the inspira
tion that had previously come from B.B. 
King, Jimmy Reed and others.
What Carlos Santana was searching for, 
musically and personally, he found in Sri 
Chinmoy, his spiritual guru. Santana was 
introduced to Sri Chinmoy by electrifying 
guitarist Mahavishnu John McLaughlin.
Though McLaughlin has since 
dropped the Mahavishnu tide and is no 
longer a follower of the guru, Devadip (San
tanas spiritual name) has stuck close to 
Chinmoys teachings.
In 1975 Devadip took a retrospective look 
at the groups history and sought to reignite 
the spark that separated Santana from 
other rock bands in the first place. The result 
of his research appeared in the 1976 LP, 
Amigos, and articles immediately pro
claimed the return of Santana. 1977 pro
duced two more albums on the same 
trackFestival and the double album 
Moonflowerand Santanas international 
popularity' is now probably as high as ever.
A new Santana album, title Zebop was 
delivered to radio stations on March 30; it 
should be in record stores at any time. Zebop 
is reputedly total rock and following as it 
does, two mellower jazz oriented albums, 
articles are once again proclaiming Santa
nas return to rock.
Santana describes the band
How Devadip Carlos Santana the man 
views Santana the band brings a much 
clearer vision of its history, present and 
future. It is, in his own words, an institu
tion flowing through time and space, ever 
changing and exploring musical idioms 
while retaining the identity of its origins: the
driving incessant Latin percussion founda
tion and the sound and cry of the guitar at 
the top. Musicians come into the flowing 
.river, ride through the rapids into calmer 
water and then move on to be replaced by 
others who add their energy and inspiration 
to its flow.
Reserved seating (floor) and general 
admission (bleachers) tickets go on sale * 
tomorrow, April 8th at 12 noon by the Skibo 
Information Desk. Only CMU students can 
buy tickets on Wednesday. From Thursday 
on, anyone can purchase tickets. Students 
will be allowed to buy four (4) tickets with 
their own ID. Tickets cannot be bought 
with someone elses ID.
Computer Simulation? It was my take off to a great future.

---------------------------------------------------

April 7, 1981The TartanPage 19
JtA steamy version of The Postman Always Rings Twice
by Richard Giammanco
The Postman Always Rings Twice is the 
fourth version of James M. Cains novel that 
has been brought to the screen over the last 
forty-two years. There was a 1939 French 
version, and a 1942 film called Obsession 
directed by Luchino Visconti, but both 
movies were unauthorized. In 1946 MGM 
^joined John Garfield and Lana Turner in 
the now old classic tided after the book. This 
version was shot in a severe black and white 
Glamour style, and the original story had to 
be largely censored to make a legitimate 
Hollywood movie from it. Now the (hope
fully) last remake of the Cain tale is brought 
to the screen with Jack Nicholson and Jes
sica Lange in the lead roles.
The story revolves around three people; a 
hitchicker named Frank Chambers (Jack 
Nicholson), and a couple that own a road
side restaurant-filling station; the old Greek 
Nick Papadakis (John Colicos) and his 
extraordinarily beautiful wife Cora (Jessica 
Lange).
If there is one specific 
reason to definitely see 
this movie, it is Lange. 
She is interesting and 
exciting to watch.
Frank begins to work for the owners as a 
mechanic. In the heat of an intense moment 
he lets lust pervert his actions and he attacks 
Cora in the kitchen. Her equal passion 
drives them both to a heavy scene on the 
kitchen table. The scene is really very porno
graphic yet there is no nudity involved. It is 
an exciting, erode, and very compelling 
scene to watch. Upon viewing this, one 
begins to understand the motivation 
murder of Coras husband in relation to 
their violent passions.
Bob Rafelson, the director, starts the film 
off very well. He has a beginning that grabs 
the viewer; but then not too much later the 
story loses interest. The movie on the whole 
seems much too long, which can be very 
harmful to even a well made film. Rafelson 
has tried to create a film true to the book 
which could not be done in 1946. He plays 
heavily upon the sexual passion of his char
acters and what it motivates them to do. He 
relies on Frank and Coras sexual passion 
the films central focus and ends up over 
doing it.
The photography by Sven Nykvist, for 
the most part, is nothing short of brilliant. 
He films stylishly, from the point of view of 
the drifter Frank, and this view works for the 
movie straight through to the end.
Playwright David Mamet wrote the lack
ing sceenplay. Several scenes and dialouge 
seem pointless and dragged on. The scripot 
never really sheds any insight into how the 
characters feel except sexually. Though par
tially justified through the book, the dia
louge becomes weak.
Nicholson Disappoints, Lange Surprises
Jack Nicholson shows very few surprises 
in his performance. If you have always liked 
his style then you will probably be content 
with his character. If you are choosy in the 
roles you have prefered him in, which you 
should be, this one comes up superficial and 
somewhat lacking.
Jessica Lange, on the other hand, turns in 
the best performance of her short four film 
career. The fashion model that was first seen 
in the terrible remake of King Kong as the
Jack Nicholson is the drifter who enters the life of Jessica Lange, and their passion will drive 
them to murder in the provocative motion picture, The Postman Always Rings Twice.
Fay Wray heroine, shows that she is a fine 
and intelligent actress. If there is one specific 
reason to definately see this movie it is 
Lange. She is interesting and exciting to 
watch, and Nykvistss photography enhan
ces her beauty and sexuality to a perfect tone. 
As the orginal was one of Lana Turners 
finest performances, Jessica Lange makes 
this role completely her own. The astrology 
bound, ape held, angel of death should be 
one of our finest actresses in the eighties. 
One Remake Too Many
The film is very strong in many areas but 
the weaknesses seem to leave an uncomforta
ble feeling during and after the movie is 
over. It concentrates too heavily on the char
acter of Frank without having enough to 
say about him. The director and the 
screenwriter are to be equally' blamed 
because Jack Nicholson seems to do his job 
within their boundaries. The music by 
Michael Small is very good but lost interest 
along with the film. The Postman Always 
Rings Twice but movie remakes some
times dont. It plays daily at Showcase cine
mas North, East, and West, Cinema world 
on route 51, and the Fiesta Theatre in down
town Pittsburgh (across from Heinz Hall).
Summer
Sessions
DOWNTOWN
FOUR START DATES, 
TWO BEGINNING AFTER MAY
EVENING/DAY TERM I(6l/2 weeks)MAY 4 - JUNE 16
EVENING/DAY TERM II(6l/2 weeks)JUNE 17 - JULY 30
EVENING/MID-SESSION(9 weeks)JUNE 1 - JULY 30 
* * *
SATURDAY TERM(12 meetings)MAY 9 - AUGUST 1
EVENING/SATURDAY OFFERINGS INCLUDE:
Accounting (Intro. I & 11/Managerial) Biology (General I & II)Business Management (11 courses)Chemistry (General I & II) Computer Science (Intro./COBOL/FORTRAN/ 
Data Base/Assembler) Economics (Macro,/Micro./Money & Banking) Engineering Technology (Strength of Materials/ 
Properties/Heat Transfer/Engineering Geology/ 
Surveying/Drawing/Instrumentation Design) English (Comp./Lit./Speech) Journalism (Copy Readg/Journ. Writing/Photo. Math (Algebra/Statistics/Trigonometry/
Calculus I/Calculus 11/Unear Algebra) Psychology/Sociology
DAY OFFERINGS INCLUDE:
Dance (Ballet, Jazz, Modern)
English (Comp.Lit.)
ESL (English as Second Language)
History
Journalism (News Photo Writing)
Political Science
Psychology Sociology
Theatre (Makeup Movement Voice)
For full schedule and
Admission form, contact:
Office of Part-Time StudiesPoint Park College
201 Wood Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
391-4100j

---------------------------------------------------

NQ 1: Career Enhancement:
We have all the ingredients you need to start a great career going  state-of-the-art technology, 
rapid growth and a supportive work environment committed to technical excellence. Since 1968, 
LIMKABIT has been applying communications theory, computer science and digital technology to 
the conception, development and manufacture of very advanced communication and 
teleprocessing systems and components. *
Representative accomplishments include:
 Microprocessor-based modems for high to low data rate applications
 Powerful error-correction and data compression encoder-decoders
 Packet switching data modems and decoders
 Large-scale communication networks design, integration and management
 Multiple access communications systems such as TDMA, FDMA, CDMA, high speed TDM's and 
DA-TDMA systems
 Complete software controlled communication terminals including user interfaces
You are 
looking at 
the third 
good reason 
to join LINKAB1T.
NQ 2: LINKABIT S Future
Since our founding twelve years ago, by a group of communication engineers and computer 
scientists, LINKABIT'S sales have increased more than 50% each year. Our present backlog of 
over $30 million virtually assures this growth rate will continue.
NQ 3: San Diego Living
This is an ideal place to work and play. The University of California at San Diego and the San Diego 
State University campuses are minutes away from our new headquarters at Torrey Pines, La Jolla. 
San Diego's 70 miles of beaches and coves are within easy access all year round, while cosmopolitan 
San Diego and nearby Mexico offer everything from opera, symphony, theatre and dining to major 
league sports, deep sea fishing and bull fights.
Career opportunities exist at LIMKABIT for Electrical Engineering and Computer Science 
graduates and individuals with relevant backgrounds to work in the following areas:
 COMMUNICATION SYSTEM DESIGN  PACKET SWITCHING
 MICROPROCESSOR BASED  COMMUNICATION NETWORKSCOMMUNICATION COMPONENTS  COMPUTER COMMUNICATION PRODUCTS
 DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING  SOFTWARE TOOLS
 RF DESIGN  SECURE SOFTWARE
 REAL TIME SOFTWARE DESIGN  CRYPTOGRAPHY
 MICROPROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE
Send your resume or detailed letter today to the attention of Pat McLean, Employment Manager.
LINKABIT CORPORATION
A M/A-COM Company 
10453 Roselle Street. San Diego, CA 92121 
(714)453-7007
We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer__________ __^

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Intramurals
Softball heads up new spring sports
Ken Murawski, winner of the Wendys Old Fashioned Hamburgers Halftime 
Shootout, receives part of his prize of a hamburger a week for a year from Carol 
McClure, the manager of the Oakland Wendys on Fifth Avenue.
by Leslie Weiser
Softball has started for the season. Sche
dules are out for all leagues, as well as offi
ciating schedules. Umpires must officiate all 
assigned games or forfeit half a game in 
team standing. Please do not call the 
Athletic or Intramural Office to learn if your 
game is to be played on a rainy day. Both 
teams will report to the field at the scheduled 
time and will decide to play or not. If they 
cannot agree, the commissioner will decide 
if the game is to be played. Please pick up 
and return all softball equipment to the IM 
shed on the IM field. The commissioners 
are: Mike Pochan for the majors, phone 
683-0372; Wes Seeley for the intermediates, 
phone 687-0843; and Mike Grant for the 
minors, phone 683-0472.
Please get your votes in for Basketball 
All-School and MVP. Submit your choices 
to the IM Office as soon as possible.
Get all those bridge games played and 
turn in the scores to Eric Theis, phone 682- 
9580.
Check the IM bulletin board for weight
lifting and co-rec badminton playoff sche
dules, as well as fencing dates. Badminton 
players may also get in contact with Jamie 
Patterson at 421-5952, and fencers can call 
Jay Michaels.
Co-rec table tennis games will start this 
week. Check the IM bulletin board for 
match schedules, or contact commissioner 
David Kusma at 578-4270.
The IM track meet will be held on April 
22 at 4:30 p.m. on the CMU track. A com
missioner is still needed for this sport.
The Intramural Banquet will be held on 
Tuesday, April 28. The social hour will start 
at 5:30 and dinner begins at 6:30, in Skibo 
Room 100! Please sign the sheet in the IM 
Office if you plan to attend the banquet.
The final meeting of the IM board will be 
held Thursday, April 16, at 12:30 p.m. in 
Room 104 Gym. An IM president for 1981- 
82 will be elected, and the IM Man of the 
Year will be announced. Votes for Man of 
the Year must be submitted before this 
Thursday.
Track team slaughters competitors in 1st meet
by Mark Knapp
What would you think of the following 
type of student? He attends CMU, with its 
intense competitive academic atmosphere, 
and enrolls in classes that require work 
loads far greater than most universities. In 
his second semester he is hit with mid-terms, 
spring break, Spring Carnival, and a host of 
other time consuming activits. He pushes 
buggy, spends hours upon hours studying 
and preparing for exams, yet still willingly 
expends his already exhausted body for 
about two hours each day on some cinders.
Most people would say he is ridiculous, or 
at least crazy, and believe his kind are very 
few at CMU. However, in fact, about sev
enty of these eccentrics gather at 4:30 p.m. 
regularly in the basement of Donner Hall to 
form the Camegie-Mellon track team. They 
come from all colleges and all majors to hear 
Coach Meckley preach his athletic gospel
Head Coach Meckley has added two new 
assistant coaches to the CMU staff, Jim Lear 
and Rick Lackner. Coaching both the 
local high school team of Central Catholic 
and CMUs distance runners, Jim Lear can 
be called the running coach. According to 
locker room rumors, Coach Lear has report
edly been seen telling the distance runners to
run ten miles and then following along side 
them to see if they do it. Now, thats innova
tive coaching.
The other new assistant coach is Rick 
Lackner, whose knowledge of weight train
ing, combined with a motivational tech
nique of coaching, adds strength to CMUs 
team. Coach Meckley feels by adding Ricks 
weight training program the coaching staff 
is giving CMUs track men that extra bit 
necessary to defend the schools Presidents 
Athletic Conference title.
Meckley feels, Nothing is for sure, but if 
we can get some help in the field events, 
which looks almost certain, we can have a 
very good chance of winning our third 
straight title. One of the many reasons that 
Meckley is so optimistic is because of the 
sprinters on the 440 yard relay. Two sopho
mores, Avi Orenstein and Kevin Cureton, 
and two freshmen, Dave Albrecht and Mike 
OShip, seem to have a very strong chance in 
the conference. They are almost definite for 
the team this year, as well as the next two, 
Meckley boasts with a smile.
Referring to those seventy some students 
that turned out for track this year, Coach 
Meckley says quite honestly, I feel they are 
special people: they give the time to make
CMUs track earn a champion.
Things look good for the track team this 
year; a wealth of talent, combined with the 
excellent coaching staff, may show CMU as 
an impressive performer on the track. This 
past Saturday, the team devastated the con
ference by winning the PAC Relays at Case 
Western University and stunned the other
schools%in Division III by accumulating 131 
points out of a possible 140. However, the 
only performance available for CMU to 
view is this Saturday, when the Tartans host 
their only home meet of this season. Hope
fully, you can catch your fellow students and 
friends running for CMU. Please come and 
see the Tartans win again.
Coach Chuck Klausing to head up coaches clinic
CMUs Golf team on top after 
outshooting W&J & CWRU
by Anthony Jones
The Camegie-Mellon golf team got its 
spring season started on the right foot last 
Saturday by winning a triangular match 
against Washington & Jefferson and Case 
Western Reserve at Sugar Bush Golf Course
Ohio.
CMU fired a respectable 409 under windy 
and rainy conditions while W&J placed
second with 425 and Case Western got third 
with 427. Gary Petrosky took medalist 
honors for the day by shooting a two-overpar 74. Don Behnke, John Venzon, and 
John Lewis all shot 83s while Tony 
Palermo finished out the scoring with an 86.
Coach Don Poluszeks teams next match 
will be Friday at their home course, Longue 
View Country Club.
The Camegie-Mellon University football 
coaching staff will sponsor a Coaches 
Clinic on the CMU campus Saturday, April 
11, from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Heading the program will be Coach 
Chuck Klausing, who has led the Tartans to 
a record of 41-6-1 in his five years and two 
berths in the NCAA Division III playoffs. 
Klausing, the ABCTV Division III Coach 
of the Year for 1979, has also coached at the 
Division I level as an assistant at West Virgi
nia, Rutgers, and Army, and has an 88-16-1 
overall record as a head coach.
Joining him will be Offensive Coordina
tor Gerry Mancini, Defensive Coordinator 
Don Poluszek, Receivers Coach Ray Peters, 
Offensive Line Coach Tom Nee, Defensive 
Ends Coach Frank Thompson, Defensive 
Line Coach Ray Tomb, and Linebacker 
Coach Rich Lackner.
For further information, call Coach 
Klausing at (412) 578-2216.COACH CHUCK KLAUSING
Tartan teams in action this week*
Wed Apr 8TENNISWestminster(H)1 PM
fti Apr 10GOLFHiram(H)1 PM
Sat Apr 11TRACKCWRU and W&J(H)11 AM
TENNISPitt(H)1 PM
Sun Apr 12TENNISRobert Morris(H)1 PM
GOLF
SatApr 4
REVISED SCHEDULES
Wash-Jeff Case Western ^(A)
f
1 PM
MonApr 6Westminster()NOON
FriApr 10Hirair.(H)1 PM
TueApr 21Allegheny Bethany(A)! PM
ThuApr 23Duquesne(A)I PM
TueApr 28Thiel John Cairo! 1(H)1 PM
ThuApr 30PAC Championship(A)TBA
TRACK
Sat Apr 1PAC Relays(A)1 PM
-SalApr 11Case Western Wash-Jeff(H)11 AM
Wit!Apr 15Cieneva Wash - Jef f(A)3 PM
WtxiApr 22Hiram(A)$ PM
SatApr 25Allegheny/Be thany(A)3 PM
FriMay 1PAC Championships(A)TBA
FriMay 8Pitt Invitational(A)TBA

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
April 10
Friday Film Series
All That Jazz, starring Roy Scheider and Jessica 
Lange. Directed by Bob Fosse. This film will 
knock you out with its insight into the sweaty, 
exhausting grind involved in the seeming effor
tlessness and exhilaration of dance. 6,8:30 and 11 
in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID.
April 12
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies 
The Russians Are Coming, However, 
theres no need to worry. Theyre just as 
ridiculously inept as we are. This 
side-splitting comedy concerns a Russian 
sub that gets stuck on a reef off New Eng
land and sets off a wild and crazy series of 
events. Ths residents of the small coastal 
town panic. The Russians panic. The panic 
turns into hysteria as all the people involved 
leam some valuable lessons in tolerance. 2 
p.m. in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID.___________
theater
April 9 through 12 
A Soldiers Tale
Neil Wards adaptation of Stravinsky and Ramuz 
work drawn from Eastern European Folklore. 
Directed by Joseph Siracusa. 11 p.m. Thursday 
through Saturday and 8 p.m. Sunday. In the 
Kresge Theatre on the CMU campus.
March 4 through April 12 
Tangles
The World Premiere of a new play by Robert 
Litz. A contemporary comedy about the 
romantic collisions of five friends. At the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre on the North Side. 
For information, call 323-1900
April 14 through 19 
Streetsong
Internationally renowned actress Geraldine Fitz
gerald will appear in her one-woman show. The 
acclaimed show will play four times at the Pitts
burgh Public Theatre. At the Hazlett Theater 
North Side. 323-1900 for information.
Through May 2 
Poe
The world premiere of a play by CMU grad
uate Michael Cook. Presented by the Pitts
burgh Metropolitan Stage Company at the 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts (Fifth and 
Shari v Avenues). Directed by CMU alum
Jim Boerlin and featuring a score by CMU 
students Dave Knapp, Peter Aldins and 
Bruce Deaton. Thursday and Friday at 8 
p.m. and Saturday at 7 and 9 p.m. 683-3993 
/for reservations. Admission is by donation.
SDC Film Series
April 11
Alices restaurant, 6,8,10 and 12 in DH 2210. $1 
with CMU ID
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
April 7
Oklahoma Kid, starring James Cagney and 
Humphrey Bogart and Little Caesar starring 
Edward G. Robinson. 7:30 and 10:15
April 8
DodesKa Den directed by Akiro Kurosawa. 7:30 
and 10 p.m.
April 9
His Girl Friday, starring Rosalind Russell and 
Cary Grant. 7:30 and 9:30.
April 10
Bread and Chocolate, directed by Franco Brusati. 
7:30, 9:30 and 11:30
April 11
The Last Wave, starring Richard Chamberlain, 
7:30, 9:30 and 11:30
April 12
Carousel, starring Shirley Jones and Gordon 
MacRae. 7:30 and 9:40
April 13
East of Eden, starring James Dean and Julie 
Harris, directed by Elia Kazan 7:30 and 9:30.
Carnegie Institute Series
April 7
Directors SeriesJoris Ivens 
The Fishing Village and Behind the Scenes at the 
Peking Circus, featuring a dazzling display of 
Chinas top acrobats. 8 p.m. in the Museum of 
Art Theatre. $2.
April 10
Visiting Filmmaker--Kurt Kren 
Sentimental Funk, a recent work by the Austrian
filmmaker. 8 p.m. at the Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 
205 Oakland Avenue. $2.50.
April 12
History of Film Series-Comedy 
Young Frankenstein, directed by Mel Brooks. 
Starring Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman anti Made
line Kahn as the Bride of Frankenstein. 7:30 in 
the Lecture Hall. $2.
music
April 7
Cameron Choir
8 p.m. in the Alumni Concert Hall. Conducted 
by Max Peterson.
April 9 
Walt Harper
The acknowledged king of jazz in Pitts
burgh will play in the Alumni Concert 
Hall. Sponsored by the department of music 
and free of charge to the public. (Note spe
cial time12:30 p.m.)Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts across from the Box 
office. Monday dirough Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Through April 16 Carol Kuinata, assistant prolessor of An at CMU. Works in metal.
Forbes St. Gallery
Foi lx-s Avenue at Margaret Morrison St. Wednes
day to Sunday, 12:30 to 5 p.m. Tuesday. Wednes
day and Thursday, 7 to 9 p.m. Ojxnings are 
Tuesday night.
April 7 through 12 Stem Slaven, Chris Depaul 
and Donna Trusilo.
Ellis Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts. Monday through 
Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Through April 10Beginning Glass Class 
April 13 through 17Adrienne Radkoff
Carnegie Museum
Through May 24 In China: Photographs by 
Eve Arnold, Gallery A.
Through May 10 Christopher Watts (prints, 
drawings and paintings) Gallery D.
Through May 31 Daumier: Parisian Char
acters, Gallery 10
Through June 7 Recent Acquisitions: 
Prints, Drawings and Photographs,
A.B. Coffeehouse will present Spheeris and Vedouris in the Highlander Room, Friday April 
10 at 9 p.m. Spheeris and Vedouris play a mix of jazz, classical, folk and progessive rock
Schedule your next French class in France.
Its a lot easier than you think. As youll discover in the next issue of Inshdee  the free 
supplement to your college newspaper from Ford. And it makes a lot of sense. If youre
going to learn French, why not learn it from the experts.
Inshdee will include everything you need to know to do just that Well tell you how 
to get there, what it costs, how to plan, differences between American-affiliated 
universities and foreign learning institutions, an outline of language requirements
and, most importantly, how to find a job.
So if youve been thinking about taking a semester or two 
abroad, stop thinking. And next time registration comes 
around, schedule your French class where youll learn the
most...in France.
Dont miss the next issue of Inshdee. Besides travel tips, youll 
see the great new lineup of Ford cars for 1981. Featuring 
Escort, Mustang and the exciting new EXP... tomorrow is here
from the world of Ford.
Look for Insider. Fords continuing series 
of college newspaper supplements.
FORD
FORD DIVISION

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Apartments
1 or 2 rooms available in 3 bedroom apartment. 
Furnished. Central Air-conditioning. Laundry 
facilities. Available immediately. $100 month 
plus electricity and gas. Ellsworth Avenue and 
Copeland in Shadyside (one block from Walnut 
Street) Call 683-8841. Ask for Alan or Ted. 5420 
Ellsworth Avenue
Shadyside - one bedroom, w/w, a/c. Kitchen 
equipped, parking. Laundry, Bus stop. $240 8c 
elect. 3 - 5 PM. 462-7319. After 5 PM.
Shadyside-Now taking applications for 1-2-3 
Brs., w/w, a/c  kitchen equipped. Parking and 
laundry. Available May and Sept. $225 to $400.
362-8887
Wanted: Female Grad-Student, to share 3- 
bedrooni Squirrel Hill Apt. Rent $121 plus utili
ties. This is not a Summer sublet. A new lease in 
May. Room available anytime in May. Call 
Linda 421-8227.
f Wanted: May-August sublet, preferably 1 rm. or 
efficiency. CMU/Squirrel Hill or Squirrel Hill 
area. $150 month or less, will share sublet or 
similar rates. x4045 evenings, keep trying!
Services
Typing: IBM Selectric Symbols: Pica, elite, work 
guaranteed. 734-1331
Typing, term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
call Shirley, 521-0534 before 9 PM if possible
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Professional Typing at reasonable rates. Thesis, 
term papers, legal briefs. Cassette transcription. 1
Call Ms. West. 371-3657. (24 Hours, IBM-service) official
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. owrn IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Hayt and Kemmerly  Engineering Circuit 
Analysis $18. x4415  I NEED Money!
Loft For Sale - Custom Design - Fits Standard 
Donner Double - Feature in September Tartan  
Must see - Rm. 108 - For Details x4008
Cash: Wanted, 10,000 Late Model Wrecks and 
Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks, 23 hrs. 422-9968 
Cash for Baseball and Football Cards. All Years. 
Paying Top Prices. Call 821-4158 after 5 PM.
Help Wanted
Artists and Photographers life study model
needed for Neath Hills Art Center classes. For 
information call Bob Ruschak 462-3072 or the 
center 364-3622
Tennis instructors wanted: Excellent high pay
ing summer jobs (clltbs, resorts, camps) available 
through Washington Tennis Services for stu
dents with tennis playing or teaching experience. 
Call Pat at (301) 654-3770 for further information
We are looking for an experienced dungeon 
master. If you qualify', please teply by mail to 
Karellen, 29044th Avenue Beaver Falls, Pa. 15010
Summer Counselor Positions Available. Appli
cants are now being considered for the 1981 camp 
season. Must be able to teach one of the follow
ing; Arts and Crafts, Arts and Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and Singing, Archery, Tennis, Trampx>line, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Teaching, Jazzercize, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor or General Atheletics. Counselor Unit 
Leaders, must be colege graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, 
evening program, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St.,Pittsburgh Pa. 
15217 or phone 412-521-2376.
LOST-Beseler Topcon 35 mm camera - brown 
case - if found return to Lynn x5958 Please!
Job Hunting? You need a professionally pre
pared RESUME. Now that youve spent thou
sands of dollars, and years of your life preparing 
for a career, why take a chance with your future? 
Get the interviews you deserve, with a competively designed resume, prepared on the most 
modem word processing equipment. Special stu
dent rates. For information call the resume spe
cialist! Mango Andrews Resume Service. 
391-3232
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Moving and light haulingCampus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.Buy and Sell
For sale: 1967 Plymouth. Good condition. New 
Tires. No rust. $150. 681-7010
Petitions are available for the px>sition of Student 
Government Treasurer, now through April 17 at 
the Skibo Informa tin desk
There are CTT and MCS senate vacancies. Peti
tions are available today through April 17 at the 
Skibo Information desk.
President Richard Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, April 14 and 
today, March 19. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his office, 578- 
2200, to set up an appointment.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences will have open office 
hours for students, Tuesdays from 1:30-3:30.
club
Hie Department of Economics is offering the 
following undergraduate courses for the Fall 
1981 semester: 73-100: Principles of Economics; 
73-250: Intermediate Microeconomics; 73-300: 
Intermediate Macroeconomics; 73-330: Compar
ative Economic Systems; 73-340: Labor Econom
ics; 73-358: Economics of Environment and 
Natural Resources; 73-370: International Eco
nomics; 73-458: Money and Banking. Descrip
tions of the elective coureses are available from 
Judy Mangan, Department erf Economics, PH 
219D.
The Foreign Language Department is offering 
the following course: 82-124: Elementary Ger
man for Reading Knowledge. Instructor, Dr. 
Christian W. Hallstein, BH 232. A one semester, 
12 unit, introductory' course for students who 
wish to develop reading skills in German. (See 
catalog for further information.)
The Students Dormitory Council meets every 
Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room 
in Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
Anyone interested in helping during the one 
home track meet of the year, April 11, (i.e., tim
ing, measuring, etc) please contact Coach Meck
ley, 578-3776.
The Volleyball Club is practicing every Monday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday from 9 to 11 p.m., in 
Thistle Hall in the gym. Anyone interested in 
playing is urged to attend or call Mike Matthews 
at 687-5095.
Anyone interested in playing Varsity Womens 
softball, please contact Coach Pecman, 578-3456, 
or show in the Small Gym for practice, MondayFriday, 4:30-6 p.m.
Anyone interested in working on Events for
Spring Carnival, Please call Lauri at x4384 or 
leave a message at the Skibo Info desk.
All those interested in working oh Opening and 
Closing ceremonies for Spring Carnival should 
contact Mark, at x2107 or leave a note in the 
Spring Carnival Mailbox at the Skibo Info desk
Anyone interested in working the ticket booths 
during Spring Carnival, Please contact Jeff 
Macartney, at the Skibo Info desk, x2107, or drop 
a note in the Spring Carnival mailbox
Attention all pickers, fiddlers, and yodellers . with 
a theme of Wild Wild West for this years Spring 
Carnival, Ill be looking for performers (singles Sc 
small combos) with a country western flair. This 
can include anything from Washboard/Jug 
bands, found in the blackhills of Arkansas, to the 
Dobroes and Dulcimers of Witchita. Also, Im in 
desperate need erf some ragtime piano players. 
Anyone interested, please contact Chris at x 4901 
or Shoe and Patty at x 4902 to set up a time for 
you to show yourself off.
The Thistle Yearbook is re-organizing for next 
year. All current staff members and anyone inter
ested in joining the 1981-82 staff is invited to 
come to the Thistle office in Skibo for a small 
get-together Tuesday, April 14, at 6:30. Bring 
your ideas and meet the staff and new editor.
Explorers Club  Anyone who is interested in 
whitewater rafting, climbing, hiking, caving, 
backpacking, skydiving, hangliding or any other 
outdoor activity is welcome. Meetings are on 
Thursdays at 6:30. Skibo rm. 11
Philosophy Club presents Mark Roskill, distin
guished author, art historian and professor, who 
will give a presentation entitled Visual Lying: 
On the Notion erf Falsehood in Art and Photo
graphyAll students, faculty and interested per
sons welcome. Refreshments will be served. The 
event will take place April 16 at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Program for Executives Auditorium in the GSIA 
building. (See posters) Funded by Student Senate.
WORLD PERSPECTIVE 1981, a seminaron 
international business and management, 
finance, marketing, and advertising will be pres
ented by AIESEC on Thursdasy, April 9 from 
7:00 to 9:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. 
Four speakers will address the topics and a ques
tion answer session will follow. The campus 
community is invited to attend. Refreshments 
will be served.
general
M*A*S*H* Doherty Hall 2210 6,8,10 Wednesday 
April 8th sponsored by Fringe. Admission $1 
with CMU ID, $1.25 without
There will be a Sword Dance reading Thursday 
April 9 at 7 p.m. (Special time) Featured readers: 
Gay Giordano, Stem Slaven and Paul Smith.
Pittsburgh Opera auditions for supporting roles 
and opera chorus for the 1981-1982 season will be 
held April 23 through 26 at Heinz Hall for the 
Performing Arts. Vocalists wishing to secure an 
appointment should send a resume and picture 
to the PO offices or call 281-0912, Monday 
through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Pittsburgh Public Theater will have several 
openings on the production staff beginning in 
April. Interested applicants should send resumes 
to James Scheider, Production Department, Pitts
burgh Public Theater, One Allegheny Square. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15212, 323-3950
Open vocal auditions for Pittsburgh Chamber 
Opera Theater and Gateway to Music School 
performances. April 21 through 24. Prepare two 
arias (one in English). Bring own accompanst (or 
will be provided for $10). To schedule an audi
tion, call Pat, Monday or Tuesday (day) 765-1621. 
Evenings 687-2140
The Three Rivers Art Festival annonces a design 
competition for a portable display environment 
to exhibit two-dimensional artwork. Any indi
vidual or team of individuals resideing in the 
United States is eligible to compete.
To request a program, send $15 to:
Three Rivers Arts Festival 
Atm: S. Philip Hundley, AIA 
Professional Advisor 
4400 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The final date for program request is April 17; for 
questions and registration forms, April 28. The 
deadline for all entries is May 22, 1981.
Entries selected by the jury' will be exhibited at 
the 1981 Three Rivers Arts Festival, June 5-14. 
The winner will receive a $5,000 cash award plus 
the contract for design services.
(RON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIBTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE  WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
MOT DOCS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
15 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
^Qriniital
& hot 00G
 BECKS LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
 CARtSBURG MUT 
Denmark
 DORT HANSA Germany 
- HOFBRAU Germany
 FISCHER GOLO France
 HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
 ST PAULI GIRL Germiny
 SPA TIN Germiny
 RIGNES SPECIAL Norway SWAN LAGER Australia
 BASS ALE England
 MAC KESON STOUT 
E ngland
 lOwENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
ILSNER URQUELLCzechoslovakia
RIGNES Norway
DOS EQUIS Mexico
PERONI Italy
GUINESS STOUT Ireland
GROLSCHE Holland
GOSSER Austria
SAN MIGUEL Phittpin
KIRIN Japan
MOLSON ALE Canada
KRAKUS Poland
HEINEKEHIT  OK Holland
FOSTER S LAGER Auitralia
AND MANY OTHERS
A Philip Pelusi Haircut for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center 
or Century III Mall
ABORTION
? free pregnancy tests 
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit modleal facility
WANT TO MAKE GOING 
HOME HASSLE  FREE?
Store your furniture, cloths, books, etc. Everything fully insured.
HOT DOG SHOPS INC 21-7388 or 21-1185
3*01 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PCM., PA. 15213Call LIBERTY STORAGE 
471-2510

---------------------------------------------------

1980 Tartan awarded for writing, photos, ads, and art
by Maureen Brennan
The Tartan received 10 awards at the 
annual Pennsylvania Collegiate Press Asso
ciation (PCPA) conference held at Gannon 
College in Erie, Pa March 28 and 29. 
awards included First and Second Place in 
Advertising, First Place in both News/Fea
ture Photo and General Column, and Third 
Place in Layout.
Robert Zusman, a junior Physics major 
who was The Tartans photography editor 
during 1980, and is presently its managing 
editor, received five awards.
-First Place in Advertising (17 entries sub
mitted from all participating colleges) for a 
Tartan ad promoting advertising in The 
Tartan. Good promotion type ad to get 
you to want to know more. Any ad used for 
The Tartan in the future would have to be 
read because of the curiosity.one has from 
these ads. Good art and use of logo type, 
said judges Paul Stahl and Denise Steler of 
Stahl Advertising Design.
-First Place in News/Feature Photo (47 
entries submitted) for a shot of a fireman 
fighting a blaze in Oakland during some of 
our coldest winter days. Said Art Wilkinson, 
Associate Photography Editor of the Phila
delphia Bulletin, Excellent portrait of a 
very tired fireman. Photo combines the best 
elements of news and feature photography.
-Second Place in Photo Essay (27 entries 
submitted) for the 1980 Tartan Photo Con
test. Nice (selection of) photos...size and 
scale varieties and visual interest in main
tained, said Gary Hanes, Assistant Manageing Photo Editor of the Philadelphia 
Inquirer.
-Honorable Mention in Art (9 entries 
submitted) for the dollar bill with President 
Cyerts photo. Judged by Karen Krider, a 
designer and graphics instructor at the Por
tland School of Art.
-Honorable Mention in Sports Photo (28 
entries submitted) for a shot of football 
player in mid-air. Judged by Michael B. 
Hill, Assistant Photo Editor, Philadelphia 
Journal.
Bob Leighty, a junior in Technical Writ
ing and Editing who is presently associate 
editor of The Tartan, won First Place in 
General Column (44 entries submitted) for 
his article entitled Darwin and Shakes
peare: Its All the Same. The writer has 
used a campus news event as a jumping-off 
point and added his original thoughts and 
conclusions. The column is readable, conFirst Place for Advertising: Robert Zusman
cise, well thought out, carefully organized, . 
mature, and does relate to the college. Gen
eral Columns was judged by Judy Tucker, 
formerly of the Philadelphia Bulletin.
Barry Debsky, a December, 1980 graduate 
in design, won Second Place in Advertising 
(17 entries submitted) for his Tech Flying 
Club advertisement. Art makes you want to 
read the ad...Good use of the headline, body 
copy, said judges Paul Stahl and Denise 
Stetler of Stahl Advertising Design.
Maureen Brennan, a junior majoring in 
Professional W7riting and Administrative 
and Management Science who is presently 
features editor of The Tartan, won Honora
ble Mention in Features (84 entries submit
ted) for her article entitled A Summer in 
Oxford-More than Just a Trip. Beauti
fully done-makes Oxford come alive. The 
piece sparkles with you enthusiasm! said 
Barbara Koontz, Editor of the Family Sec
tion of the Times Chronicle in Jenkintown, 
and Kevin Ames, editor of the Features page.
Jim Balsom, a senior in Professional 
Writing who as news editor of The Tartan 
last year, won Honorable Mention in News/Features Photos (47 entries submitted) for 
his shot of President Reagan taken on a 
local campaign, trip. Art Wilkinson, Asso
ciate Photography Editor of the Philadel
phia Bulletin, said 'Good use of light 
source. Keeps a podium picture from falling 
to the boring lackluster level of most photos 
of its type.
Two universities participated in the con
test for the first time this year: 34th Street, 
from University of Pennsylvania and The 
Daily Collegian, from the University Park 
campus of Pennsylvania State University.
Penn State Universitys Daily Collegian 
received 3 First Place awards, 5 Second Place 
awards, 2 Third Place awards, and 2 Honor
able Mention awards. The Universtiy of 
Pennsylvanias 34th Street, received 2 First 
Place awards, 2 Second Place awards, 3 
Third Place awards, and 6 Honorable Men
tion awards.
Last year, The Tartan received 3 First 
Place awards, 4 Second Place awards, 1 
Third Place award, and 6 Honorable Men
tion awards.
Any student interested in any aspect of 
The Tartan is welcome to stop by Skibo 
Rm. 50, or call x2111.
Honorable Mention for Sports Photo: 
Robert Zusman
Honorable Mention for Art: Robert Zusman
First Place for News/Feature Photo: 
Robert Zusman
Honorable Mention for News/Feature 
Photo: Jim Balsomtech flying club
First Place for Art: Barry Debsky
Discover flying with the Tech Flying Club on Wednesday, November 19 at 8:30 PM in Skibo Room 33. Films will be shown andeveryone is welcome.
