t
International Club 
More Letters 
On Activities Fee 
See Page 4
VOL. 50No. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
C hanukah 
First of Religious 
Series 
See Page 2
TUES, DEC. 11, 1955
P&Ds Organized 
* Into Artists Guild
Student Congress Approves Move 
To Foster Professional Attitude
Three years ago the Beaux Arts Society let out its last death 
sighs, rolled over, and died. At its peak it was an organization ded
icated to having the most splendid ball you ever sawthe fanciest
gy of the school year. Students from all four Fine Arts departments
ent all year planning this ball.#---------------------------------------------------
The entire week before was dej ^ TV-7-LPr. J. C. Warner 
At Xmas Assembly 
Of Next Tuesday
voted to turning Exhibition Hall 
into the grandest ballroom in all 
France.
However, as years went on in
terest in this society centralized 
itself in the hands of a few and 
apathy replaced the bacchanal 
spirit. The ball itself was a source 
of trouble to the dean when
uests like Adam and Eve came, 
nd when the party continued for 
days afterwards in closets and 
studios throughout the building. 
A third reason for its failure was 
the limited activity and service 
(?) which it performed.
Fine Arts Council Formed
In 1952 Dean Rice decreed that 
there be no more Beaux Arts So
ciety and, in its place, tried to 
form a Fine Arts Council, which
ould be a student council for the 
ollege. It would promote a more 
professional attitude within the 
college by having assemblies, 
guest speakers, and parties.
This effort failed; perhaps be
cause of deanal interference; 
perhaps because of student apa
thy; perhaps because there was 
no real need for an organization 
tying together the architects, pediologists, musicologists, and draijnatergists.
^ Last Wednesday Student Coun
cil authorized the students of the 
painting & design department to 
organize a departmental club, to 
be called the Student Artists 
Guild. Going on field trips 
to art museums and advertising 
studios, and sketching trips 
through steel mills and into the 
country is one phase of its activ
ity.
Fi Other Guild Activities
The Student Artists Guild will 
also have exhibitions of student 
work set up and judged by the 
students themselves, and other ac
tivities, such as guest speakers, 
parties, and movies. Its officers 
are Bob Clements, chairman; Rae 
Prudente,, secretary; and Ron 
Barron, treasurer.
Departmental clubs, like the 
Student Artists Guild and A.I.A., 
can definitely provide a service 
 TOOth to the department and to the 
students involved. The encour
agement of serious study, and the 
correlation of students with the 
commercial world outside school 
are two important functions 
which these clubs should perform.
In Fine Arts it is hoped by some 
that an organization uniting the 
four departments could come in
to existence, which would be built 
_^on already existing clubs. This 
>would fulfill the important func
tion the founders of Carnegie 
Tech had in mind when they 
planned the buildingto foster a 
closer relationship among the 
fine arts.
The theme of Techs annual 
Christmas Chapel Service to be 
held next Tuesday will be the ad
vance from the promise of the Old 
Testament until the birth of 
Christ.
Following the opening of the 
program and the singing of O 
Come, All Ye Faithful. President 
J. C. Warner will present his 
Christmas Greeting to the student 
body. Two organ selections by 
Mr. Edmund La douceur, Noel in 
C Major and Handels Pastoral 
Symphony from Messiah, have 
been chosen to precede Dr. War
ners address.
Dr. Scharfe To Speak 
The Christmas Message for this 
season will be presented by Reverand Howard Scharfe of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church, 
and Professor Paul L. Ward of
Seniors
Attention Seniors! If you 
havent filled out an activities 
blank for the THISTLE, 
please do so immediately. 
Blanks are available in Skibo. 
December 15 is the last day 
these forms will be accepted!
Long-Term Loans
All students needing long
term loans for spring semester 
registration should place their 
applications in AH 154 by De
cember 19.
President Warner
Speaks To Students
the history department will give 
the Christmas Prayer.
Scripture readings from Hosia, 
Jeremiah and Isaiah will be pre
sented by Irene Baird, after which 
the Cameron Choir will sing the 
medieval carol O Come, O Come, 
Emmanual.
Hallelujah Chorus 
Continuing the theme of the 
pi-ogram, Jay Kober will read St. 
Lukes account of Christs Nativ
ity and will be followed by Cam
eron Choir singing Gloria In 
Excelsis Deo.
To conclude the program the 
Chorus of the music department 
and the Cameron Choir will join 
together in singing the Hallel
ujah Chorus. Other musical 
selections will include Silent 
Night, It Came Upon a Mid
night Celar sung by those at
tending the service and O Chris
tian Men Rejoice by the music 
department Chorus.
The Christmas Chapel is plan
ned as a service to the entire 
campus by the YM and YWCA
The Scot Calendar 
Hits The Campus 
On December 18
The second issue of The Scot, 
Techs literary-humor publica
tion, is scheduled to appear in 
campus corners and between the 
covers of student binders, Tues
day, December 18. The magazine, 
edited by the same masthead as 
the successful issue published in 
October, is promised to be bigger 
and better than ever before.
Dick Oden, editor, has acclaim
ed this issue as being hygenically pure it will be comparable to 
Godeys Ladies Book, a popular 
magazine of the 1890s. The issue 
will feature the annual Scot Cal
endar, depicting its usual bevy of 
campus beauties. Though an an
nual attraction, this years cal
endar is also new and unusual. 
Photographer for the calendar 
was Irwin Harris, assisted by 
Dick Brown.
Another feature of the soonarriving Scot is a collection of or
iginal drawings of Sistine rest
rooms, heterosexual in design, 
done by Michael Angelo for the 
Scot.
The Scot has been under in
tense pressure for three weeks, 
stated Carl Arendt, managing ed
itor, and before publication it 
will be examined by a special 
committee delegated by Pi Delta 
Epsilon. The committee, The 
Scot Examination Board, maintains 
a member from every publication 
on campus. Peggy Heath repre
sents Thistle, Stephanie Mackay, 
Tartan, Peter Urbach Technical, 
and Vic Schmidt, WRCT. Carl also 
stated that Bob Russell, execu
tive editor of the Tartan, is main
taining a staunch calm attitude 
concerning the magazine, and is 
expected to proof read the entire 
edition.
Mr. Robert Marsano
Y Program Director
Foreign Students
Foreign students who ex
pect to leave the United States 
during Christmas Recess 
should consult Mr. Swank be
fore Tuesday, December 18, 
1956.
Opportunities For Electives
Are Plentiful At Carnegie
By Carol Sooby
With second semester only a short time away, students should 
be giving some thought to the scheduling of electives. There arc 
always complaints about the narrow choice of extra courses, usually 
brought on by the students lack of forethought and planning; often 
the classes are filled by the time#-------------------------------------------
he makes his decision. To many, 
the importance of such courses is 
negligible. However, frequently, 
the students only opportunity to 
build a well-rounded education 
is to take advantage of the varied 
liberal arts courses.
Its doubtful that Tech students 
realize the extensive opportui'ties 
open in the choice of electives. 
Several examples indicate the 
wide range: one of the most pop
ular courses has been Dr. Robert
ACTIVITIES FEE 
PROBLEM TABLED
Time To Properly Consider Move 
Sought By Student Congress
The monthly meeting of Student Congress was held last Wednes
day, in which the activities fee was the main source of discussion.
Executive Council has proposed this activities fee with the hope 
that it would be a means of increasing student interest and participa---------------------------------------------------------?tion in the school by making
more events and services free. In 
the free list might be included 
such things as Homecoming, 
Spring Carnival, the Thistle, 
and so on. The activities fee 
would amount to five dollars per 
semester and give the Student 
Government $30,000 to delegate to 
the various organizations.
Activities Fee Opposition 
Opposition was immediately 
raised to the suggested division of 
the $30,000 total as related in last 
weeks Tartan. We are already 
paying an activities fee which 
goes toward Student Government 
and towards athletics. Many did 
not agree that such a fee would 
help increase interest in the school 
as there does not seem to be such 
an interest in athletic events 
which are already free to the stu
dent.
One suggestion was that the fee 
would do much more for arousing 
interest if it were to go toward 
the new Student Union which 
would be used by everyone as a 
place for general get-togethers as 
well as for organization meetings. 
This would be of great benefit to 
the commuter.
Points brought out were the 
fact that because of space, never 
has the school, as a whole, been 
able to hear Dr. Warner give an 
address nor does it seem possible 
that three thousand students and 
their dates could fit in the gym 
for the Homecoming Dance. 
Suggestions Needed 
As the purpose of this congress 
meeting was to get an idea on 
feelings toward the, proposal, the 
matter was tabled for discussions 
until-the next meeting so that the 
congress and the student body 
can have time to think over the 
proposal.
If anyone has any suggestions 
the meeting is open to the en
tire student body, and the chair 
can grant permission for non
voting members to state opinions. 
Your congress representative will 
also carry your suggestions to the 
meeting for discussion, so con
tact him.
Tech Debate Club 
Uses Foreign Aid 
As Current Topic
The Tech debate team met ten 
of 50 other universities teams con
gregated at the Pitt cross-exam 
tournament this past weekend, 
when college debate teams from 
all sections of the United States 
and Canada discussed the years 
topic, Should the United States 
Discontinue Direct Economic Aid 
to Foreign Countries?
The Pitt tournament, to which 
schools like Southern California, 
j West Point, Annapolis, Howard, 
and Northwestern sent 
and affirmative debating 
| one of a series in which 
Club is participating.
Two weekends ago the ,varsity 
group attended the New York 
University Hall of Fame tour
nament, where they debated with 
Fordham, Villanova, Buffalo, and 
1 [Continued on page 31
Marsano Chosen 
Program Director
Mr. Robert Marsano has been 
appointed to serve as program di
rector of the YMCA at Carnegie 
Tech for the remainder of the 
school year. This announcement 
was made by Professor Thomas 
Stelson, chairman of the YMCA 
Committee of Management. Mr. 
Marsano will serve part-time on 
the. Tech campus, while he con
tinues his second year of grad
uate study at Western Theological 
Seminary.
Last year he was student assist
ant to Dr. W. C. Mellin in the 
Oakmont Presbyterian Church. 
He is moderator of his class at 
seminary, sings in the seminary 
choir, and plays on Westerns 
basketball squad.
Robert Marsano is a native of 
Ellwood City, Pennsylvania, and a 
graduate of Westminster College 
He was co-editor of the Westmin
ster Holcad, the campus news
paper, a member of Masquers, 
and moderator of Shenango Pres
bytery Westminster Fellowship.
Schwartzs Problems in Philo
sophy; English, history, and for
eign language electives cover the 
largest field; many beginning Fine 
Arts courses are open to the whole 
school; and useful courses offer
ed in Margaret Morrison include a 
three unit beginning typing course 
and the nine unit Food for Two. 
Rounded Education 
Theoretically, almost every 
course in the school could be 
tConlintted on page 8J
ntive 
earns, is 
he Tech

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 11, 1956
Jewish Holiday Of Chanukah
Celebrated For 8 Day Period
By Elliot Rothman
The Jewish holiday of Chanukah, which is a Hebrew word mean
ing Dedication, commemorates an historical struggle for religious 
freedomthe first religious war in the year approximately 165 B.C.
Ancient Palestine, after the death of Alexander the Great, had 
been ruled by Egypt where Hel-#----------------------------------------------------------
Jenistic civilization predominated. 
This civilization threatened to de
stroy everything Judaism held 
sacred. Their monotheism, their 
torah and prophetic teachings, the 
Sabbath and festivals, the Temple 
and synagogues, and the Hebrew 
languages were threatened by the 
tide of Hellenism.
Syrian Conquest 
Then Palestine became part of 
the Syrian Empire, later ruled by 
Antiochus Epiphanes who was 
trained in the Hellenistic and 
Roman civilizations and sought to 
mold his empire into one people 
with one language and one re
ligion.
With this goal, Antiochus enter
ed Jerusalem, desecrated the Tem
ple, making it a place of worship 
to Zeus, and restricted observance 
of all Jewish laws. As long as Pal
estine was conquered politically, 
there was little native resistance. 
But the religious suppression 
could not long remain unopposed.
Religious Revolt 
The call to action came from 
Modin, a small village in which 
lived the priestly Hasmonean fam
ily. Matthatias and his five sons 
led the revolt for religious free
dom and finally political indepen
dence. Under the brilliant military 
leadership of Judah Maccabee 
(The Hammer) and his four 
brothers, Johanan, Semon, Jon
athan, and Eleezor the force grew 
from a guerilla band to a well 
trained army that finally defeat
ed the Syrian forces at Emmaus.
Though it took another genera
tion to crush the Syrians and fin
ally re-establish an independent 
Jewish government, this battle 
made it possible to regain the 
Temple and relieve the oppression. 
Following this first victory, Judah 
returned to the Temple, cleared it 
and rededicated it to God, mono
theism, and the Jewish precepts.
Feast of Lights 
Upon this return, oil sufficient 
to light the Temple for only one 
day was found. But miraculously 
it lasted eight days. As a result, 
the holiday as prescribed by the 
Maccabees lasts for eight days. It 
is a joyous holiday, also called 
The Feast of Lights, due to the 
symbolic lights.
The complete account of this 
history is found in the Apocry
pha, a supplementary book to the 
Old Testament in Maccabees I 
and II.
Chanukah, a holiday of re
joicing, happens to come in late 
November or December, according 
to the Hebrew calendar. It is char
acterized not only by festivity, 
but also by solemnity and services 
to God. For on each night, an ex
tra candle is lit in the Jewish 
home until the last day when all 
eight are shining.
The prayers said at this kindling 
not only bless the Lord but are re
minders of the ideals for which 
these ancient zealots struggled so 
successfully  religious freedom. 
For had the Hellinism that per
vaded the known world been per
mitted to corrupt the Hebrews, 
monotheistic thought would have 
been lost for centuries.
Time Holiday
This holiday of Chanukah is 
particularly significant today. For, 
in effect, history has and is re
peating itself in all parts of the 
world. Indeed the struggles of the 
Maccabees preserved the principal 
and concepts by which we live 
today  monotheism, freedom of 
worship, the dignity of man.
Todays assembly program in 
the Fine Arts Auditorium showed 
the many ways in which Cha
nukah was observed as a way of 
lifein literature, in music, in 
history, and in symbolism.
Railroaders
There will be a meeting of 
the Carnegie Tech Rail En
thusiasts on Wednesday eve
ning, December 12 at 7:00 
p.m., in AH 129.
First Performance 
Of SnS In 1938
Superstitious? Dont be. For Fri
day the thirteenth is the day the 
Scotch n Soda club launcned its 
extremely successful career. Back 
in 1938 on that date the newly 
founded organization gave its first 
show, No Strings.
It was described as a frothy, 
hilarious, and tuneful satire on 
campus capers at Carnegie Tech. 
This show seemed to contain 
everything but the kitchen sink: 
everything, that is, from a mock 
coronation of the Carnival Queen 
and her court to a fire drill in the 
girls dorm and a comedy ballet.
It is said that this newly or
ganized group started off with 
fireworks and fanfare when it 
descended upon Carnegie Music 
Hall, where it gave its first per
formance. And considering the 
date and the novelty of the idea, 
they must have had to be espe
cially careful with black cats and 
broken mirrors. Looking at their 
record from that day to this, it 
should be safe to assume that they 
passed under no ladders.
Then, as now, the show was 
given during Spring Carnival, 
and its cast and crews were com
posed of members of every de
partment of the school. This was 
the first in a long series of suc
cessful Scotch n Soda productions.
TX Combo Has 
Distinctive Style 
For Old And New
By Valerie Armitage
When Theta Xi holds a jam 
session at the house, they really 
go all out. These three-hour af
fairs are complete with refresh
ments and meals on the house, 
plus the swingingest music ever. 
Tech students crowd into the 
house with the main idea of hear
ing music, and once it starts no 
one can sit still for long, whether 
they merely tap their feet or try 
their skill to the combos own 
form of danceable jazz.
Theta Xi has had a combo for 
the last three years, but the pres
ent group is a new one. It in
cludes, Bill Scrivener and Pat 
Patterson, junior architect and 
senior civil engineer respectively 
on the bongos and drums; Henry 
Cummings, a sophomore metal
lurgist on piano; Steve Finner, a 
junior EE on the trombone; Ed 
Fortner, a sophomore metallurg
ist on the clarinet and alto sax; 
Bob French, a junior ME on the 
bass; and Fred Christiansen, a
sophomore music major on the 
trombone.
Three Per Semester
For having only one music ma
jor the group does a really out
standing job. They play mostly 
the old standards and improvise 
at will. In addition, to the open 
jam sessions the combo plays for 
all of TXs closed sorority parties, 
and Saturday night parties an^; 
for such paid outside events as 
the arcihtects party last year and 
a dance at Chatham in November.
Theta Xi holds three open jamsessions a semester on Fridays 
from 4:30 to 7:30 at the house. Al
though boys must be invited per
sonally, an open invitation is ex
tended to all Tech girls. Two ses
sions have been held already, and 
the last one for this semester will 
be sometime in January. ^
S n S Designers
There is a meeting for all 
those interested in designing 
scenery, costumes, and light
ing for this years Scotch n 
Soda show this afternoon. 
Tuesday, December 11 at 4:30 
in Room 106 Fine Arts.
SIEGMAN BROTHERS
FORMAL WEAR FOR RENT
3520 Fifth Avenue, Oakland 
(Across from Falk Clinic)
MU. 1-8712Free Parking in Rear
Student Discount Cards Honored
The Playhouse/Presents Play 
The Mousetrap
The Pittsburgh Playhouse has 
two hit shows running back-toback with The Desperate Hours 
set to stay at the Craft Avenue 
Theater through December 15 
and The Mousetrap playing 
through December 31 at the Ham
let Street Theater.
The Mousetrap has been au
thored by one of the worlds 
greatest mystery writers, Agatha 
Christie. The play is based on a 
notorious child-killing case in 
England a few years ago. Years 
after that crime, someone who 
loved the dead child starts on a 
self-appointed task of killing 
three other people concerned with 
the death. Two of the intended 
victims are staying in a snow
bound guesthouse along with the 
murderer. From this point the 
play moves along with mounting 
tension to its surprise climax.
Director Robert Bardwell has 
cast William Glennon, Jayne Car
vel, Alma Lind, Jay Doyle, 
Charles Matthews, Dorothy Clavin, Bill Galamo and Lincoln 
Maazel in this spine-tingling 
whodunit that features a setting 
by Tom Vawter.
You get better looking in a957 Chevrolet!
Theres a whole new outlook behind the wheela 
bigger view of the road over that sassy hood. And 
isnt that new instrument panel a honey!
Look through that 57 Chevrolet windshield and you see how its new, deeper design gives you better, safer vision.
Glance downjust a bit and your eyes rest on the sweetest instrument panel a car ever had.
270-h.p. high-performonce 
engine also available Fi 
extra cost.
Then, take the wheel and youll find the goings even better than the looking! (Horsepower ranges up to 245.)* Come in and see.Sweet, smooth and sassy! The Bel Air Convertible with Body by Fisher.
Only franchised Chevrolet dealersy CHEVROLET /kdisplay this famous trademark
See Your Authorized Chevrolet Dealer

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 11, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 1
lech Musketeers Seek Varsity 
Recognition By Administration
By Arthur Marino
i Proving that their vision has not been dulled by four months of 
gazing at sights other than those found on rifles, the members of the 
Carnegie Tech Rifle Club are currently in second place in the Greater 
Pittsburgh Rifle League. Under the supervision of their range officer, 
pt. Trefz, and range Sergeant
aughan, the members have com
piled a record of four wins and 
one loss.
League leaders last season, the 
riflemen are devoting most of 
their spare time to rifle shooting 
in order to hold their own against 
other teams from such schools as
Pitt, Duquesne, and West Virginia, 
whose teams have the advantage 
of being recognized as participants 
in an official varsity sport. Al
though not so recognized at Tech, 
the team takes part in matches 
from October to May as represen%
%
On Campuswith 
Max Shulman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek, etc.)
EAT, DRINK, AND BE MARRIED
On a recent tour of seven million American colleges, 
I was gtruck by two outstanding facts: first, the great 
number of students who smoke Philip Morris; and second, 
the great*humber of students who are married.
The first phenomenon  the vast multitude of Philip 
Morris smokers  comes as no surprise, for what could 
be more intelligent than to smoke Philip Morris ? After 
all, pleasure is what you smoke for, and pleasure is what 
Philip Morris delivers. Try one. Light up and see for 
yourself.... Or, if you like, dont light up. Just take 
a Philip Morris, unlighted, and puff a couple of times. 
Get that wonderful flavor? You bet you do! Even with
out lighting you can taste Philip Morriss fine natural 
tobacco. Also, you can make your package of Philip 
Morris last practically forever.
No, I say, it was not the great number of Philip 
Morris smokers that astounded me; it was the great 
number of married students. Latest statistics show that 
at some coeducational colleges, the proportion of married 
undergraduates runs as high as twenty per cent! And, 
what is even more startling, fully one-quarter of these 
marriages have been blessed with issue!
Now, to the young campus couple who are parents 
for the first time, the baby is likely to be a source of con
siderable worry. Therefore, let me devote todays column 
to a few helpful hints on the care of babies.
First of all, we will take up the matter of diet. In 
the past, babies were raised largely on table scraps. This, 
however, was outlawed by the Smoot-Hawley Act, and 
today babies are fed a scientific formula consisting of 
dextrose, maltose, distilled water, evaporated milk, and 
a twist of lemon peel.
After eating, the baby tends to grow sleepy. A lullaby 
is very useful to help it fall asleep. In case you dont 
know any lullabies, make one up. For example:
Go to sleep, my little infant,
Goo-goo moo-moo poo-poo binfant.
A baby sleeps best on its stomach, so place it that way 
in its crib. Then to make sure it will not turn itself over 
during the night, lay a soft but fairly heavy object on its 
back  another baby, for instance.
So, as you see, raising a baby is no great problem. 
All you need is a little patience and a lot of love. Also 
diapers, rompers, soakers, crib, mattress, sheets, bumpers, 
blankets, high chair, diapers, talcum, baby oil, fish liver 
oil, paregoric, diapers, safety pins, cotton, cotton covered 
toothpicks, bottles, diapers, nipples, diapers, bottle 
brushes, booties, diapers, nighties, wrappers, diapers, 
rattles, teething rings, pacifiers, diapers, and unlimited
funds.  Max shulman, 1956
When Baby is fast asleep the little angel! n why not relax 
and give yourself a treate With Philip Morris, of corris! 
Made in long size and regular by the sponsors of this column.
tatives of Carnegie Tech.
Two Goals
Despite the loss of John Herr, 
twice selected to the National Col
legiate All-American Rifle Team, 
proclaiming him one of the ten 
top collegiate riflemen, the club 
is optimistic about its chances of 
holding the crown of League 
Champions. We have two goals 
this season, explains Bill Humes, 
vice-president of the club, Re
tention of the Greater Pittsburgh 
Rifle League Championship is our 
primary goal. Secondly, but equal
ly important to us, is obtaining 
recognition by the administration 
of gallery rifle shooting, which is 
the title of our sport, as an of
ficial varsity sport.
International Club 
To Discuss Art
Activities since Thanksgiving 
have been curtailed due to sched
uling difficulties. We were finally 
able to obtain the Carnegie Union 
for Friday, December 14. Profes
sor Beaman of Fine Arts has con
sented to share his knowledge in 
the history of the arts. He will 
lead the discussion exploring the 
present status of art versus sci
ence. The meeting will be opened 
at 7:30 p.m. The Christmas part 
will be held after the discussion, 
with singing and dancing until 
midnight. American students are 
welcome as usual.
Citcom Dance
All independent dorm girls are 
invited to Citcom Clans Christ
mas Dance for an evening of fun 
and music. The dance will be held 
in the Womens Gym on Saturday, 
December 15, at 8 p.m.
Members of the Clan and the 
dorm girls may come either stag 
or with dates.
Math Lecture
Dr. Richard C. MacCamy, of the 
Carnegie Tech math department, 
will lecture tomorrow on Maxima 
and Minima. The subject matter 
includes an introduction to the 
calculus of variation, and applica
tions of this theory to elementary 
physical problems. The material 
will be within the understanding 
of a sophomore student. The lec
ture will be held in Room 1112, 
Engineering Hall, at 4:30.
Germany
The political literary trends of 
Germany will be discussed by a 
noted educator and former United 
States naval intelligence officer 
at Carnegie Tech Thursday, De
cember 13 at 8 p.m.
Dr. Ernst Erich Noth, profess < 
of comparative literature, Univer
sity of Oklahoma, will lecture on 
the subject, Germany Between 
East and West: Political and Lit
erary Trends. The lecture, open 
to the public, will be held in the 
auditorium, School of Industrial 
Administration and is sponsored 
jointly by the Carnegie Tech de
partment of modern languages 
and the department of history.
WRCT To Cover 
Student Congress
This year WRCT has made a 
great effort to bring to the Stu
dents a variety of programs in 
music, news and interviews.
Tomorrow night it will present 
Carmina Burana, a program by 
the Pittsburgh Symphony and the 
Carnegie Tech Student Chorus. 
Scheduled from 8:00 to 8:45 p.m. 
it will give students who could 
not attend the program on Sun
day a chance to hear it.
As a regular feature to the 
WRCT schedule, there will be a 
15 minute analysis each Thurs
day at 8:00 p.m. following the 
Student Congress meeting held 
the preceding Wednesday. Tape 
recordings are being made at the 
meetings, cut down to fit into the 
program and interpreted by a 
member of the WRCT staff.
Radio Merrimac with Larry 
Williams and Bill Carr, is another 
service of the radio station. Every 
Saturday night from 6:00 p.m. to 
3:00 a.m. a variety of music is 
presented. In order to satisfy 
ones interest, there is a tempo 
change every ten minutes and, as 
an extra attraction, there are ex
citing remote broadcasts.
Symphony
Geza Anda, a young Hungarianborn pianist appears Friday eve
ning and Sunday afternoon with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra at Syria Mosque. The lanky, 
bespectacled pianist is making his 
second concert tour of America 
and already he has been touted as 
one of the true musical greats of 
our age. He is making his first 
Pittsburgh appearance with the 
Pittsburgh Orchestra this week
end playing Rachmaninoffs Con
certo for Piano and Orchestra No. 
2, in c minor.
Also included on the colorful 
program, the last before Christ
mas, will be music by Bartk, one 
of Hungarys great composers and 
the Albeniz-Arbos work, Suite 
Iberia. Tickets are on sale at 
Kaufmanns, Gimbels or Homes 
in Pittsburgh or may be purchas
ed at the Syria Mosque box-office 
before each of the two perform
ances this week.
Blood Wanted
Banner lodge of the Knights of 
Pythias desires blood donations 
for the blood bank. They will pay 
$10.00 for each pint. If you wish 
to donate, please call JA 1-0649.
Concert
The music department will pre
sent a concert by the String Or
chestra with Goesta Andreasson 
conducting. The concert will be 
given Sunday, December 16 at 8:30 
p.m. in Exhibition Hall, College of 
Fine Arts.
The program will include works 
by Bach, Boccherini, Prokofieff, 
and Mendelssohn. Featured with 
the orchestra will be student solo
ist Irene Schaal.
Pghs Most Modern Dance Spot
PGH. i." DANCE CLUB
More Than Just A Ballroom
Sherwyn Hotel Rai nL
FRI.. OCT. 129 P.M. to I A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
ORCHESTRA * Tech Invite
EARN YOUR MASTERS DEGREE
AND PREPARE FOR
tS EXECUTIVE CAREER uS RETAILING
Comprehensive nine-month program for A.B. and B.S. 
graduates; emphasis on executive direction in major 
stores dovetailed with classroom work. Total pay for 
store work $450. Co-ed. Scholarships. Selective job place
ment before graduation. G.I. approved. Next class, 
September 3, 1957. Apply now. Write for Bulletin C.
SCHOOL de RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH n.b..ih 13, p..
Got these in your
holiday plans?
This all-Arrow outfit can make a Christmas
morning. (With a couple of well-placed hints, 
it can be yours.) For your Christmas check
list: this stand-out Cabot sport shirt of 
imported cotton flannel, with the new short-point
collar; and two college standbys, Arrow slacks and. 
University styled, crew neck sweaters.
Shirt, $5.95; sweater, $11.95; slacks, $12.95.
ARROW
first in fashion
SHIRTS  TIES  SLACKS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Produds Ivy League Fashions
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.  Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 11, 155#
Editorial
Fee Again
The voice of the general body is usually 
extremely weak when measured by the 
number of letters received by the Tartan.
Our weekly intake averages slightly above 
zero, and very rarely do more than one 
pertain to the same subject. But in less than 
two weeks, we have received four letters 
against the activities fee proposal, three of 
them from dramats.
This may cautiously be taken as an in
dication that the activities fee is not eagerly 
awaited by every Tech student. One of to
days authors clamors for more airing of 
the issue, and although further airing in this 
student newspaper probably will be no more 
effective in reaching the uninformed stu
dents than past airing in this same paper, 
another attempt will be made here and now.
Nevertheless some people couldnt be in
duced to read this column unless Max Shulmans name were placed above it.
As stated repeatedly, the allocation of funds 
from such a fee was only a suggestion, al
though not entirely unconsidered. To be sure, 
the Thistle stands to grab most of the money 
if the present proposal is passed, but that lat
ter possibility seems to be fading rapidly. If 
there is to be an activities fee, as such, it will undoubtedly have 
to include a more generally acceptable distribution of funds.
Many of the opinions heard so far favor a much larger 
portion, if not all, to be given to the new union. According 
to a good source from within the administration, such a 
gift would certainly be welcome, especially since some con
sideration had been given to a scheme for collecting a some
what less voluntary fee for the purpose. It was felt that a 
major objection to this would be that todays students would 
be paying for tomorrows union, but if todays students want 
to wish a fee upon themselves, the money will be graciously 
accepted. To correct a statement made by last week, the 
pending developments will certainly not exclude the pos
sibility of a student fee.
A student union is about the first thing which everybody 
notices as missing at Carnegie Tech. and it is the most important 
of the proposed new buildings in the eyes of the students and 
almost everybody else except the powers from whence the cash 
flows. If a student fund were started, outside contributions might 
come more readily. But it has been mentioned that a lot of 
people object to an assessment now for the Union of three or four 
years hence. Also, a project to benefit only the Union could not 
be called an activities fees, and would not fulfill nearly the 
same purpose.
An activities fee should be designed to give Tech stu
dents better activities at less individual cost, and with much 
guesswork and bookkeeping eliminated. Chief sufferers 
would be those who are totally uninterested in all Tech ac
tivities, and judging from the response so far, this is a vast 
multitude to overcome. If there is a proposal which will 
suit the majority, it is yet to be found.
* * *
In answer to Mr. Moshein, if this compulsory fee is 
passed, there may well be some sort of referendum to the 
general student body, but there shouldnt have to be. Every 
student is entitled to his say in Congress meetings, and has 
at least two elected representatives to speak for him. He 
has at least one departmental representative and either a 
dorm representative or several commuter representatives, any 
one of whom should listen to the sentiments of his fellow com
muters and echo them in Student Congress.
If all Congress representatives were continually hounded 
by their constituencies they would have to attend Congress meet
ings. Too many people dont know who their representatives are, 
and too many of these representatives arent going to Congress 
meetings, with the result that some people are not getting the 
voice which they should. R.H.R.
ALLOTMENT 
OF
ACTIVITIES
tty T
^ _ FUNDUS
It
\-mkS&.
GEMS?AU CONifNSUi OF FineFeAr 
ALU TOO-E-THET^. fslOtfVi "cLeArtt-V, THE UrHlO*S^ 
OUT Op THE auE'jrriON . LeLT'- HOLD OUCAPFA'K 
{NI The THITUC IfS^TCAr>."
STTEH
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2 4557; Managing Editoi, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager; MU 2-8851, Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Managing Editor ......... .......... .......................  Stephanie Mackay
Exeeative Editor  .................. ...........  Robert Russell
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................... Marjo King
Associate Editor .............................................................................................................. Richard Fox
Easiness Manager ............................................................................................ Robert Sorkin
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 187. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for aational advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Letters
Union Fee Needed
Editor, the Tartan:
The proposal to enact the ten dollar a year ac
tivities fee has been tabled until the next meeting 
of Student Congress on January 9. I feel that fur
ther discussion of that proposal should be carried 
on both the Congress and the student body in 
general.
The proposal before the congress is an arbitrary 
one. It seems that the suggested allocation, pub
lished in last weeks Tartan, was. decided very 
hastily and that it is meant to serv only as a guide. 
It called for most of the money to be given to dance 
activities and the Thistle.
There was also included a token sum to be 
given to the student union. I feel that a fee for the 
Union does not even belong under the heading of 
an activities fee..
As for the allocation itself, I think we are outjumping ourselves. To begin with, the forty per
cent for the Thistle would constitute four dol
lars of the ten. The people who now buy the This
tle pay five dollars for it. This would mean a 
saving of one dollar1 on the Thistle and make it 
mandatory for every student on campus to buy one.
Next, is the money for the dances. At present, 
if twenty, or maybe even twenty-five, percent of 
the student body attends the dances it is a very 
good showing. Certainly not over ten to fifteen 
percent of the students manage to attend all dahces 
(this includes as the third dance either the Military 
Ball or the Varsity C Club dance). This means 
that about seventy-five to eighty-five percent of 
the students would be paying to cut the prices for 
the small minority. Also, we do not have the facili
ties to support a great increase in attendance, by 
force or by will. I think we are jumping the gun.
Concerning the student union building,.I would 
like to see a definite statement from the adminis
tration or from anyone explaining how the Union 
will be quickly built and where the money to build 
it is. While it definitely does not come under an 
activities fee, I believe that by far the most 
sensible and most profitable purpose for assessing 
money would be for the rushing of the Union build
ing program.
I admit that the present students will get none 
of the advantages of the union, but every student at 
Tech, both on campus and commuting, has greatly 
suffered because of its absence. There is no place 
on campus where anywhere near all of the students 
can be assembled; there is no place on campus 
where students can congregate and associate with 
their friends, both male and female; there is no 
place on campus where a student can sit down 
comfortably and enjoy a few minutes of leisure 
rest or study, except in the IA lounge.
This student body has never been together as 
a unit or a group, and has never heard an address 
from the president; he has never given one.
If there is ever to be a student body that can 
live together and be conscious of the group, there 
must first be a place where the students can go, can 
meet, can loaf and sit; there must be something on 
campus that belongs to every student and is shared 
by every student.
To me, this is absolutely the most pressing social 
need of any community and certainly of Carnegie 
Tech. Let us meet our administration; let us par
ticipate as a student body; make it possible lor us
Read This And Weep
Pitts Plight
By Bob Russell
We Tech students can rejoice at all the genefits we derive from our relatively small, home-type 
privately endowed intsitution. Pity the plight of the 
poor, socially inferior populace at that huge, cold, 
public supported school down in Oakland.
At Jthe present time, three new huts for use at 
Pitt classrooms are nearing completion. One of 
these is the George Hubbard Clapp Hall for Natural 
Sciences, a mere five stories in height and not 
really the architectual equal of any Techs build
ings. Then there is the Graduate School of Public 
Health, a beautiful ten story gray brick shack two 
blocks down the street. The third is the mammoth 
Medical Professions Building, which occupies more 
ground area than the Tech Bowl and is 14 floors 
high; truly an imposing edifice.
But the supreme tiiumph of public support over 
private endowment lies in the fantastic Student 
Union now being developed at Pitt. The first four 
floors of the former Schenley Hotel plus three 
floors of one of the seven adjoining apartment 
houses will become a veritable paradise for Pitt 
matriculators. The ground floor of the old hotel 
will contain an outdoor terrace, a forijial dining ^ 
room, a large main lounge, a succession of smaller 
lounges on the lobby floor, a new cafeteria, and the 
hotel ballroom.
The cafeteria will be completely modern and 
air-conditioned, Will accommodate about 2400 stu
dents, and will be finished by next spring. (Mean
while, Skibo marches on). The ballroom will be 
open to the entire Pitt student body every Friday 
and Saturday night, with known bands always on 
hand.
On the first floor will be private dining room^l 
for student organizations, small lounge areas for 
individuals, a conference room, and a large library 
for leisure reading. Other floors will house deans* 
offices, interviewing rooms, the University Coun
seling Center, the Placement Service, and innum
erable other offices and services. The top five floors 
will become mere dormitories, as will six and one 
half floors of the former Schenley 'Apartments.
The three floors of the seventh apartment build
ing wil be filled with meetings rooms, legislative 
chambers for student governing bodies, offices for 
permanent activities, rooms for the files and work
tables of all student organizations, a comprehensive 
music library, and a number of soundproof listen
ing rooms.
Dr. Charles H. Peake, Assistant Chancellor, said,
I appreciate the patience the students have shown 
in waiting for the Union. I can assure them that 
thev will have, even on a temporary basis, ample 
factilities for activities.
fii.
Vote Wanted
Editor, the Tartan:
Recently I learned of a motion in the Student 
Congress to levy a compulsory activities fee upon 
the student body. I understand the fee is designed 
to cost five dollars per semester per student.
I wish to register a stern protest against the 
passage of that motion, which is now tabled in 
Student Congress.
I believe that any bill to force compulsory pay
ment of money by the student body should be voted 
on by the student body through a referendum bal
lot. (Of course, I except fees levied by the admin
istration for tuition, etc.) 
Further, it is my understanding that if that mo
tion is passed, the disposition of the money col
lected, which would amount to nearly thirty thou
sand dollars per scholastic year, would be at the 
arbitrary discretion of the Studnt Congress.
Further, the idea of being forced to pay ten 
dollars for something I am or may not be interest
ed in, without at least having a direct voice in the 
law that would compel me to pay it, is entirely ob
noxious.
I strongly urge that the entire business of a com
pulsory activities fee be left up to popular vote 
by the student body. Relatively few people are 
aware that a motion is even on the floor of the 
Congress, which would cost them some money. The 
entire issue needs much airingbadly.
Very truly yours, 
Peter Moshein 
Soph. Chem E.
t
to be able to think and act as a knowing, Inter
ested community. Most of all, let us plan for some
thing bigger than a vague stab in the dark at solv
ing our social problemslets have a little real fore
sight and imagination!
Sincerely,
Richard Block 
Drama 58*1

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 11, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
by Chester Fieldm ITS FOR REAL!
domiiiated play by scoring 13 
well-distributed points and de
fensively blocking almost every 
Indiana shot. Indiana made its 
first basket with only 3 min. 15 
pe^to go in the first quarter. By 
the end of the quarter the score
TECH I INDIANA
G. F. P.! G. F. P.
Sbolwski, 55 15 Kimbrogh, f 7 2 16
Goetz, f 3 3 9 Delise, f 5 4 14
Frank, c 9 11 29jPersuitte, c 1 2 4
Ficery, g 2 1 15; Blayak, g 12 4
Flynn, g 2 4 8!Laughlin, g 1 0 2
Miller, f 1 0 2| MCracken, g 5 5 15
Roxtader, f 0 0 OjFarrah, c 3 5.11
Rupert, g 1 0 2|R. Brooks, f 0 0 0
Mueller, g 0 2 2|
basket. At the half Tech led, 31 
to 30.
The second half started with a 
bang as Frank Sobolewski gave 
Tech four straight buckets. All 
through the third quarter the bat
tle was close with Tech comTotalsTotals 23 26 7 
Score by halves
Tech ...................
Indiana ...............Personal foulsTech (18); Goetz 4, 
Frank 5, Ficery, Flynn, Doxtader, Muel
ler, Sobolowski 2, Miller 3. Indiana (201 : 
Kimbrough 3, Delise 2, Persuitte 3. Blayak 
2, Laughlin 5, McCracken, Farrah 4.
Missed free throwsTech (10); Goetz 
2, Frank 4, Ficery 2, Sobolowski, Flynn. 
Indiana Teachers (10): Blayak 4, Farrah 
2, Delise 4.Referee:Nick Jacobs. Umpire  Stan 
Noszka.SANTA CLAUS ANALYZED
Why oh why does Santa go,
Ho Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho!
Is it just because hes jolly?
I believe hes off his trolley.
... Gifts for everyone on earth 
Breed hysterianot mirth 
If you had his job to do
Bet youd shake like jelly too!
S. R. Smashed 92-49
By Stan Zionts
In the second home game of the 
1956 season, the Tartans rolleo to 
a 92-49 victory over the Slippery 
Rock Rockets. It was the second 
straight win and two out of three 
for Coach Cratsleys quintet, who 
showed fine form in coming with
in 8 points of their all-time rec
ord.
The Rockets started the game 
with a zone defense and were able 
to stay in the running for most
MORAL End your gift problems before they start. Give 
Chesterfield in the carton that glows for realto all 
the happy folk who smoke for real! Buy lotsto 
do lots for your 
Christmas list. i
Smok* for real . 00^07^1 TITi
smoke Chesterfield! / I rll rtrl
150 for every philosophical verse I M K I faccepted for publication. / Uf IvJ IL::' 1 1 I B  5 m g I
Chesterfield. P. O. Box 2i. / m       M 
Charlie Goetz contributes two points with his jump shot against
Indiana.
King
Frank Sobolowski sinks a lay up 
shot despite the defense of two 
opponents.
style no. 83653 
TW0-T0NE TAN 
83652-BLACK
style no. } P i 
85640-BLACK 
85680-TEAK BROWN
are YOU the 
man of the hour?
The time...the place...the girl. And no matter whal 
time or what place, the girl expect: you to dress for 
the occasion. YouO meet her most finicky fashion 
ideals in these three smart City Clubs for dress, 
leisure, and everyday wear! Priced right, too... J9.95 
to $19.95.
 City Chibby Peters  distinctive shoes tor nuC 
ogrsAp vgMgpgTF gFrsAFPrgTFPf piTs aTloPFh pry fTBgp i lTf
You feel so new and fresh and 
goodall overwhen you pause 
for Coca-Cola. Its sparkling with 
quick refreshment... and its so 
pure and wholesomenaturally 
friendly to your figure. Let it do 
diingsgood thingsfor you.
Pe next meet is Saturday at 
Westminster. The first home meet 
vill be with West Virginia on
ran. 4.
The results of the Tech-Slip
py Rock meet are:
400 Yard Medley Relaywon by Slip
pery Rock (Bolt, Sofield, Dennis, Mewkle.) Time 4:27.2.
200 Yard Free Stylewon by Chamay 
tf) 2, R. Shuck (T); 3, Burns (S). pme. 2:35.2.
I 0 Yard Free Stylewon by Peters 
Litch <T); 3, Weber (S). Time
I** Yard Butterflywon by HarringOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP Tlf COCA-COLA COMPANY It 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
6122 Central Ave. HI 1..011
Coke is  registered trade-mark.  1956. THE COCA-COLA COMPAIO
Style no. 84670 TAN84630-BLACK 
V ..
^kibos Slip Past Indiana; 
Trounce Slippery Rock
Top Indiana 82-66
By Sherry Neimark
out 600 were on hand at the 
Carnegie Tech Gym last Tuesday 
evening to see Techs tall Tartans 
tangle with the State Teachers 
from Indiana, Pa. During the first 
five minutes Tech completely
was 15 to 8, Tech. Action in the 
second quarter was slow for the 
Tartans as they missed many shots. 
Not so with Indiana for with 5 
minutes to go in the half they tied 
the score at 21. Alan Frank, who 
was high man in the game with 29 
points, quickly put the Tartans 
ahead with two free shots and a
ing out ahead 53 to 50. Playing 
primarily a possession game in the 
final period, the Tartans began to 
lose their slight lead. But with 2 
min. to go and Tech ahead by 
only 2 points, A1 Frank dropped 
in two fast baskets and then added 
two foul shots for good measure. 
Final score: Tech 72, Indiana 66.
of the first quarter. However, the 
Tech players, led by Ficery and 
Frank, soon found the range and 
began to pull away from their 
opponents.
By half time the local team was 
well in command of the score, 42-
25 in their favor. During the sec
ond half, Coach Cratsley cleared 
the bench giving everyone an op
portunity to play.
High scorer for the night was 
captain Alan Frank, who scored 
20 points despite the fact that he 
played little of the second half. 
Other high scorers for the Skibos
were Frank Sobo Soboltwski 
with 15 and Ken Ficery with 14.
Preceding this contest, the 
freshman five beat the Slippery 
Rock freshmen 70-58. High scor
ers for Tech were Boyd, Dox
tader and Stan Skelka, each scor
ing 16 points. Skelka, a 6-3 fresh
man from Brooklyn, is playing his 
first year of basketball. Although 
he did not play at all in high 
school, he is improving remark
ably and shows great potential.
Next week the Skibos meet 
Gannon for the first time on the 
tContinued on page 6]

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 11, 1951
f want a cigarette t can taste. That's why 
I smoke Camelsand have for 10 years, 
ever since t was in college. Its a real 
cigarette, all the wav!"
Helicopter ^ Ptfot
tied his girl friend. "Your appearance
Pildroot Cream-Oil ? So J. Paul marshed^
ted up a bottle. Now hes the sharpest
looks handsome and
y. When last seen he ^*3
d with the prettiest
ught the bill! ) So if
rd, better get some
DOttle or handy tube.
WNOUN
CMS M IMI 
MIKVtt MHIH 
KIMWl WO IHMW
healthy . . . neat but nev< 
was sipping a chocolate 
chick on campus ( ... an 
the gals are giving you 
Wildroot Cream-Oil. . . < 
Guaranteed to drive most
I.M. Volleyball In
Playoffs This Week
By Don McClelland
Volleyball season closed last Thursday, but it was one which 
will not be forgotten by its participants for quite a while. There were 
26 teams with 278 players and 10 faculty members. Not only was 
the quantity of the play improved, but also the quality. Should
*Tech again enter an intra-school 
tournament, I feel sure they would, 
do well.
I.M. Activities 
Enter Midseason 
With Close Games
Water Polo
Kappa Sig and Beta Sigma Rho 
battled through a regular game 
and an overtime period with the 
score tied, 2-2. With about one 
minute left to play in the second 
overtime, which was sudden 
death, Fred Moog of KS sank a 
short shot to give the Slyde 
Streeters a hard-fought, 3-2 vic
tory. In other games, ATO ruined 
the Independents 15-0, and Sigma 
Nu beat TX 6-1 to clinch their 
league championship. The Wave 
League crown will be decided to
night when KS takes on ATO A 
in a battle of brawn versus skill.
Table Tennis
Beta Sigma Rho, last years 
champ, may be headed for another 
championship again this year. 
They have already defeated PiKA 
in a very close match, and are 
almost a certainty to win the 
leagu title. Challengers from the 
other two leagues are the Obelisks, 
SN -A. TX A, ATO A, and 
the BSR Bteams. Playoffs will 
^ start in January and will prob
ably include most of the above 
teams. As BSR A has all of last 
years men back, they must be 
the favorites.
Bridge
Last years finalists, Obelisks and 
PiKA A, are the front runners 
again this year in their leagues. 
The Obelisks barely topped PiKA 
Pi, 8-7-1, and should now fin
ish the season undefeated with 
PiKA Pi in second place. In 
the Skibo League, the Grand Slams 
and SAE look like the class of the 
crop, and PiKA A and PiKA 
Spades should win the Kiltie 
League.
Wrestling
. Wrestling practice began yes
terday and will continue until the 
season starts on February 12. Any
one wishing to wrestle in the IM 
tournament should plan to attend 
practice, as the school cannot ac
cept responsibility for a man who 
is not conditioned and therefore 
prone to injury. The practices are 
held every Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday from 4:30 to 6 in 
Thistle Hall.
Swim Schedule
The swimming season got under 
way last Saturday at Slippery 
Rock where we lost. The follow
ing is the schedule for the re
mainder of the season:
December 15. .. .Westminster 
January 4 .. West Virginia*
January 12 .............Kent State*
January 19 .........Grove City*
February 8 ....................... Case
February 9 ................. Oberlin
February 16 ................... Fenn*
February 23 ........................W&J
February 26 ........... Allegheny
March 2 . . . .Penn-Ohio Meet 
(Case)
*home meets
During the last week of the sea
son, three climactic games were 
played to determine first place in 
the Kiltie and Tartan Leagues and 
second place in the Kiltie League. 
The Physics Grads took very close 
games from SAE 16-14, 15-12.
The Grad Iggles and ATOs 
cinched first and second place 
when they smashed KS. Second 
place in the Skibo League was 
decided when the AIIEE and Tro
jan teams clashed. AIIEE won in 
three games thus earning a place 
in the playoffs.
Playoffs started last night when 
these games were played: Physics 
Grads-AIEE I, ATO A - Met 
Grads, Grad Iggles-Clyde St. A.C.,
Basketball
tContinued from page 5] 
hardwood at Erie, and over the 
weekend of the 15th, meet in the 
Steel Bowl at Pitt.
TECH I SLIPPERY ROCK
G. F. P.l G. F. P.
Frank, f 7 6 20| Palumbo 3 7 13
Goetz, f 2 3 7| Gatchell, f 0 0 0
Sobolwski, c 6 3 151Kunkle, c 3 3 9
Flynn, g 2 0 4| Lazeroff, g 4 0 8
Ficery, g 6 2 14| Englehart, g 1 2 4
Miller, f 4 3 111 Kline, f 12 4
Donohoe. f 2 0 4jParker,  3 0 6
Doxtader, c 0 0 0| Sullivan-, c 0 0 0
Horey, c 10 2|Mattys, g 022
Rupert, g 2 0 4|Bkhelmer, g 0 0 0
Crestani, g 1 0 2j Radi, g 0 0 0
Densmore, g 0 0 OjHilbun, g 0
Donldsn, g 0 0 Oj Anderson, g 1 1 3
Dobrian, g 2 5 9|Dietrich, g 0 0 0
Totals 35 22 92] Totals 16 17 49
Slippery Rock ___ 25 2449
Tech ........................ 42 5092 .,
Personal foulsSlippery Rock 18: 
(Palumbo 5, Gatchell, Kunkle 5, Sulli
van, Packer 2, Lazeroff, Kline 2, Book 
heimer^. Tech 14: (Goetz, Sobolowski 3, 
Frank, Flynn, Miller 2, Doxtader, Rupert, 
Dobrian 3, Donaldson).
Missed free throwsSlippery Rock Sii' 
(Palumbo, Mattys, Kunkle 3, Lazeroff, 
Kline 2). Tech 8: (Goetz, Sobolowski,
Frank, Miller, Ficery 2, Donohoe, Donand TX X-SAE A.
King
Spikes likes this one helped the Grad Physics volleyball team 
to beat S.A.E.
aldson).
J. Paul Sheedy* Was An Ugly Duckling Till 
Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
"Sheedy, youre quacking up, snorted 
fowl. Why dont you wise up to 
right down to the store and pecked 
duck in school because his hair 
. . . neat but never greasy.
moulted 
( ... and she caught 
ng you the bird, be
. . . eider a bottle or handy 
drive most swimmin wild!
* of 131 So. Hams Hill Rd.. Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil 
gives you confidence
HAVE A REALdGARETn...fuMaCWei
Discover the difference between just smoking" and Camels!
E J Reyi-oHs T'A, Co , N. C.
Youll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more 
deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend 
of quality tobaccos gives you smooth smoking. 
Youre sure to enjoy Camels, the most 
popular cigarette today. Theyve really got it !

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 11, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
honored another member of 
Techs Faculty of Award Win
ners, the latest of these being 
Professor Everard M. Williams, 
head of the electrical engineering 
department.
The two year $12,000 grant will 
be used in research into the pro
cess of electric spark machin
ing useful in the processing of 
hard materials of titanium and 
other alloys.
Strictly Confidential (before 
publication) . . .
It appears that some of the 
students should join or appear on 
the television show, Ive Got A 
Secret. At least this reporter 
feels this way after hearing bits 
of seemingly idle prattle that may 
be somewhat of a surprise to some 
of you plebians. For example, did 
you know that Dolores Neff and 
Mary Alice Peterson are accom
plished pianists? That Fred Pope 
has a voice like Elvis Presleys 
Hound Dog? That Vince Golobic is an artist of the cuisine? 
That Ed Daly, when needed, can 
pull a faster disappearing act 
than Bridey Murphy? That I had 
better stop this while I am ahead?
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Sideline News 
And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
Judging from the reports of 
students attending the first two 
school social programs (square 
dance and Monte Carlo) there was 
nothing left to be desired in the 
way of a joyful and carefree eve
ning of fun and frolic. The report 
is a most pleasant one in view of 
the fact that the lack of attend
ance at these affairs seemed indic
ative of lack of interest.
However, those days appear to 
be gone forever and a new at
titude has prevailed which, if con
tinued, will spur the confidence of 
Student Council members respon
sible for the planning of programs 
that are geared to the satisfaction 
of the students.
As is always the case everyone 
will not be satisfied with certain 
programs of social activity. This is 
to be expected and Student Coun
cil is always open to suggestions, 
large or small. Why not pick up 
pen or pencil, list your sugges
tions, and address them to campus 
post office box 256? Variety is the 
spice of life and life without spice 
is no life at all. Time is propitious!
What, Again? . . .
Since Grant took Richmond, 
Tech has taken over grant(s) 
with seeming regularity. It has 
been recently announced that the 
National Science Foundation has
Various Groups 
Plan Activities 
For Christmas
The large numbers of parties 
planned for the next few weeks 
are a sure sign that Christmas 
isnt far way.
Newman Club members will 
gather at the Majestic Gardens in 
Monroeville on December 18 for 
their Christmas party. The guests 
will have a $1.00 grab bag ex
change. Plans for the evening also 
call for dancing and refreshments.
Sigma Delta Phi members will 
celebrate with a Christmas party 
at the Holiday House on Decem
ber 21 at 7:00 p.m. Wives and girl 
friends will be in attendance. An 
inexpensive grab bag gift'* ex
change will be held and dancing 
and refreshments are scheduled.
Assembly
The strains of Silent Night, 
Holy Night will echo through 
Porter Hall on December 19 when 
the evening students will gather 
for their annual Christmas as
sembly. Several groups are plan
ning to render a few carols and 
Rev. Regis Berkmyre of St. 
Marys of the Point will offer a 
prayer. It is hoped all students 
and their instructors attending 
class that evening will participate 
in this program. Any student who 
does not have class that night is 
also invited to attend.
^ This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................ John Van Holt, Jr.
an honor as he holds first place 
in all categories of press photoI graphs for 1954 and 1955 in the 
class B division of newspapers.
Quite a diversified person, Jack 
I began his writing career by writj short stories. This interest
j soon led to the writing of plays,
| the first of which, a three-act 
I play entitled Blame It On Eve,
I is in the process of being read.
1 He has just finished his second 
I play which takes place at Pitt and
i Evening Council 
Plans Assembly, 
Kleets Members
Student Council made plans for 
1 their annual Christmas assembly 
1 at their meeting on December 2,
| at the Carnegie Union.
Dr. Dale Strick reported Nu 
I Sigma Alpha was chartered by 
I Student Council in 1930 so has the 
I right to revoke its charter. Matt 
| Bertovich will make another atI tempt to contact members to see 
| 5$ they still wish to have the orI ganization.
Matt Bertovich gave a report 
I on the Monte Carlo recently held.' 
I The insignia award keys have arI rived from Balfour so a banquet 
I is planned for February for all 
I those who earned keys last year.
The combined Engineers and 
I Phi Gamma Pi banquet is sched
uled for the Holiday House on 
May 10 at 6:00 p.m.
V*A motion was made to suspend 
I Ken Pore and Tom Winans and to 
1 accept Bill Klein, George WeavI er, and George McCracken as 
| members.
The group was sorry to have to 
accept vice-president Vince Golobics resignation due to ill health. 
An election was held with Dol
ores Neff and Andrew Oravetz as 
candidates to fill the post. Andrew 
^avetz was elected.
The next meeting will be held 
on January 6, 1957.
First Year Student Writes
Jack Zierold
Playwright
0
A Selected list of YALE 
Engineers are Needed to Meet the Demand
Lyrics For Scotch n Soda
p, Jack Zierold, in his first year at Tech, is already actively partici
pating in campus activities by writing for Scotch n Soda.
Jack commutes a distance of 43 miles from Weirton, W. Va., to 
Tech where he is taking play-writing. Besides Tech, Jack also attends
night school at the University ofPittsburgh where he is taking 
play-writing for TV and descrip
tion of literature. He also attends 
night school at the College of 
Steubenville, but says Jack, Tech 
is my favorite school.
During the day, Jack is em~ 
phyed by the Weirton Daily 
Times as a printer and photograHis job brought Jack quite
is called The Woman On the 
Bench. Jack also hopes to write 
novels and has always desired to 
write lyrics.
Because of this latter desire, 
he became interested in Scotch n 
Soda. He is now writing lyrics 
and titling skits for the show. Be 
sure to watch for the name of 
Jack Zierold when SnS show time 
rolls around as one of the promi
nent song writers for this years 
better than ever Scotch n Soda 
show.
24 INDEPENDENT COMPANIES PROVIDING POWER FOR PENNSYLVANIAS PROGRESS
Companies to play a dominating role 
in this vital expansion program. If 
you feel you have the necessary 
qualifications and desire to play a 
leading part in providing more electric; 
power for a greater America, get the 
facts on Pennsylvanias Electric Com
panies from your placement counselor. 
Have him make an appointment for 
you to see the representatives of the 
Electric Companies when they visit 
your campus.
XHE electric industry is the fastest 
growing industry in the nation. It has 
doubled its output in the last 10 years. 
To keep ahead, and to meet the ever 
increasing demand for electric power 
it will again double its capacity in the 
next 10 years.
Pennsylvania Electric Companies 
are planning the greatest expan> 
sion program that the industry has 
 ever seen.
A select group of engineers will 
be chosen by the Pennsylvania Electric

---------------------------------------------------

first name in quality formais
SchedulingSome Other Things
By Jo Todes and Carl Arendt
Its that time of year again 
when merchants begin gleefully 
rubbing their hands and students 
begin rubbing their pocketbooks 
and thinking about another vaca
tion. And one of the essences of 
the Christmas season is the tradi
tional and justly famous Hot 
Toddy. This weeK, as a public 
service, we bring you careful in
structions on iiow to make Hot 
Toddies.
The essential ingredient is rye 
or bourbon; pour some of it into 
a glass. If you like, you can stop 
there. Otherwise, pour in some 
hot water and lemon juice. If 
youre really brave add cinna
mon, nutmeg, and anything else 
you can think of. And there you 
are. Make the proportions to suit 
your own taste and you cant help 
but like this traditional Christmas 
delicacy. One thing we cant tell 
you is what to take traditionally 
the next morning . . .
Contrary to rumor, the Scot 
staff has announced that it will 
publish another issue, to appear 
shortly before Christmas vacation. 
They promise that the calendar 
will be bigger and better than 
ever, since they dont know how 
anyone can censor that.
After witnessing the Mortar
Board theatre party last Thurs
day, we might comment that the 
title of the play, The Desperate 
Hours, might well apply to the 
faculty skit that occupied the in
termission. Mr. Strick 'turned in 
his usual sterling performance, 
running, to use the old phrase, the 
gamut of emotions from A to B. 
As for the supporting players, 
their enthusiasm cannot be woubted. The lighting was well done, 
and the audience enjoyed the pro
duction hugely. The script, it turns 
out, was written by an 'anony
mous undergraduate, which shows 
a lot of spunk on his/her part........
Debate
[Continued from page 1] 
Columbia teams. The freshman 
team went to Temple for the 
novice tournament in Philadelphia 
that same weekend, and met 
team from colleges of the East
ern, Middle Atlantic, and South
ern states. The Tartans next trip 
will probably take them to Ort4 
state.
The team consists of Robert 
Detig, president, William Lupinacci, captain, and Larry Turner, 
Ray Bensinger, Nich Macchiarola, 
William Powers, and Barbara 
Srsic.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
All Work Done On Our Premises
HAPPY-JOE-LUCKY presents STICKLERS!
pjodoq purfdajstoxuvyO /CumoiOuozixajy
STUCK FOR MONEY? DO A
GREAT SCOTSTICKLERS ARE TICKLERS and a mighty soft way to make money! 
Just write down a simple riddle and a two-word rhyming answer. For 
example: Whats a ball player who gets a raise? (Answer: richer 
pitcher.) Note: both words must have the same number of syllables 
bleak freak, jolly dolly, vinery finery. Send your Sticklers, with 
your name, address, college, and class, to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Dont do drawings! Well pay $25 for every 
Stickler we use in our advertisingand for hundreds that never see 
print. And rememberyoure bound to Stickle better when youre 
enjoying a Lucky, because Luckies taste better. Luckies mild, goodtasting tobacco is TOASTED to taste even better. Fact is, youll say 
Luckies are the best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked!
and its magnificent, quiet 
good taste Calendar issue is 
coining Tuesday, Dec. 18.
another
innovation
in
good taste
[OCTiONA^
Luckies Taste Better
It' fun to go formal in this trim new tux with temi-peak lapel, natural shoulder, flap pocket, non-pleated trouser* Jet Black oH-eaon worsted,  ilk satin facing.
For name of nearest retoiler or free formal dress chort, writ: Wt> Mill Cletfce*. Im 101 W. 31 * . N. t. It
to taste 
better!
PRODUCT or
