FORUM
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
PILLBOX
Gallery crawl showcases Pittsburgh culture  B8
SCITECH
Simple phone game shapes and changes lives  A6The Tartan awards annual Thistles and Thorns  A7
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 29, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 26
PHI to shut down; students grieve University expands toward Craig Street
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
Attendees of an open 
Town Hall discussed the fate 
of Craig Street on Wednesday. 
Led by Vice President 
for Campus Affairs Michael 
Murphy, the Town Hall informed the audience and 
the Simonds Commission 
 which is the group of 
trustees, faculty, and senior 
administrators responsible 
for new projects and renovations to Carnegie Mellon 
properties  about the development plan for Craig 
Street. The Town Hall also 
served as a forum for community members to discuss 
their own opinions on the 
project.
Carnegie Mellon owns 
and leases several properties in the Craig Street area, 
including the recently acquired diocesan property 
near Central Catholic High 
School on Fifth Avenue.
The Institutional Master 
Plan for Carnegie Mellon 
outlines the future development of the campus and 
properties held by the university in the surrounding 
area. Murphy stressed the 
universitys desire to strike 
a balance between collegiate interests and those of 
the community: We have 
to have the right mission, 
the right balance, [so Craig 
Street is] CMU-centric and 
a modern destination of 
choice. 
A possible roadblock in 
the projects development 
is the zoning designation of 
Carnegie Mellons various 
properties. The campus falls 
under an Educational/Medical/Institutional (EMI) zone, 
which means that the university is at much greater liberty to do what they like with 
the property. Much of the 
property in the Craig Street 
area is part of a residential or 
business zone, which means 
that the university has to 
work with more restrictions. 
Despite these possible 
constraints, Murphy was adamant that the university has 
no plans to fundamentally 
alter Craig Street. Were not 
talking about changing functionality, were not talking 
about throwing anyone out 
of their place, he said. 
Senior biomedical engineering and materials science and engineering double 
major Sohini Bianka Roy 
attended the meeting as a 
representative of the undergraduate Student Senate, 
and discussed the stake of 
students in this matter. 
The goal was essentially 
to have some kind of Tartan 
pride, she said. When you 
walk down to the University 
of Pittsburghs campus, you 
see that Go Panthers, you 
see that pride, and we felt 
that Craig Street is kind of 
like our own little corridor 
The changing faces of Carnegie Mellon: A presidential retrospective
GREG HANNEMAN 
Senior Staffwriter
When it came time to give 
a title to his ?nal speech before the student body, retiring 
Carnegie Tech president John 
C. Warner had a few ideas.
Old presidents never die, 
they just lose their faculties, 
he joked to his audience in December 1964.
As Jared Cohon, Carnegie 
Mellons eighth president, 
prepares to step down from 
the position, The Tartan takes 
a look back at the history 
of Carnegie Mellons other 
presidents and the events that 
marked their terms. 
The information for this article was obtained from a combination of The Tartans own 
archives, minutes and notes 
from the universitys board of 
trustees, ?ve published books 
on Carnegie Mellon history, 
and interviews with people involved in the universitys history and presidential searches.
The resulting 110-year 
historical picture re?ects the 
Carnegie Mellon of today. 
The institutions presidents 
themselves have embodied 
the contrasting disciplines, 
backgrounds, and approaches 
inherent in the modern multifaceted university. Each leader 
faced issues unique to his own 
time in of?ce, although some 
debates surfaced repeatedly 
over the schools history. 
One major undertaking, 
every 14 years on average, 
was replacing the president 
himself due to resignation or 
retirement.
Contrasting approaches
 
From the start, the executive heads of Carnegie Mellon 
and its predecessor institutions have come from a variety 
of backgrounds.
Arthur A. Hamerschlag, 
the ?rst president of the Carnegie Technical Schools, was 
appointed with input from 
Andrew Carnegie himself. In 
November 1903  two years 
before classes began  a committee from the school visited 
Carnegies home in New York 
City and mentioned Hamerschlag, already a prominent 
organizer in multiple New 
York-area trade schools. Hamerschlags background as a 
trade-school supporter and 
consulting engineer pleased 
Carnegie so much, the committee reported, that he 
promptly suggested that we 
secure him at once [and] that 
he be paid a good salary. 
Hamerschlags appointment 
was con?rmed the following 
week at a suggested salary of 
$8,000 a year, plus a house on 
the school grounds.
The Carnegie Technical 
Schools were originally founded to give twoand three-year 
vocational educations to Pittsburghs working class. With 
his practical background and a 
developing close relationship 
to Andrew Carnegie, Hamerschlag focused his tenure 
on constructing the schools 
physical presence and getting 
periodic infusions of money 
from its founder.
Since [campus architect 
Henry] Hornbostel maintained his of?ces in New York, 
day-to-day supervision of the 
building projects in Pittsburgh 
often fell to Hamerschlag, 
who may have devoted half 
his time to campus construction, professor emeritus of 
history Edwin Fenton wrote in 
his 2000 book Carnegie Mellon 
19002000: A Centennial History.
School historian Arthur 
Wilson Tarbell, in his own 
1937 history of the institutions early years, said that the 
?rst president was not interested in academic ceremonies 
so much as solving practical 
problems as they arose. He 
was not college trained; indeed his formal educational 
preparation had been meagre 
beyond belief, Tarbell wrote. 
In his fundamental make-up 
he was more of an engineer 
than an educator.
As the Carnegie Technical 
Schools evolved into the CarnAMY TSIEN
Junior Staffwriter
Panther Hollow Inn  
known among students as 
PHI  formally announced 
that it is closing by the end of 
May after 16 years of operation. 
This news met with a great 
deal of attention within the 
university community and 
from local residents. 
The news of PHIs closing 
drew a substantial response 
from the campus community, with many students concerned that this closing was 
an effect of Carnegie Mellons 
desire to develop the area surrounding Craig Street. Despite 
initial speculation that the 
closing may have been part of 
the universitys Master Plan, 
Vice President of Campus Affairs Michael Murphy released 
a statement stating that it was 
not the university who had 
purchased the bar.
Student body president 
Will Weiner con?rmed this 
statement. 
I got in touch with Vice 
President of Campus Affairs 
Michael Murphy and he con?rmed with me that CMU did 
not buy the bar, Weiner said. 
Beyond that, Im really not 
sure.
Within hours of the news 
of PHIs closing being shared 
online, a change.org petition 
for keeping PHI open was released, reading, This is not 
about the need for alcohol, this 
is not about delicious greasy 
food, this is about keeping 
the love and tradition of CMU 
students alive. Within three 
days, the petition reached 750 
signatures. 
Weiner added, Its been an 
interesting reaction. Ive never 
really seen anything except 
for when the Fence got cut 
up a few years ago, where the 
whole campus rallied around 
a cause.
When asked about their 
memories of PHI bar, junior 
computer science major Dave 
Cummings and senior chemical and biomedical engineering double major Emerson 
Hum both spoke favorably of 
its proximity to campus. 
Masters student in biomedical engineering Aditi 
Gogineni responded that she 
had a strong attachment to 
PHI, saying that it would never be the same. 
Senior materials science 
and biomedical engineering double major Courtney 
Joe shared this view as well, 
recalling her fond memories 
at PHI and saying that a new 
business cannot replace what 
had happened there.
Staff at PHI stated that 
owner Eugene DePasquale 
was very upset by the closing 
of his bar, and was unavailable 
to give any comments regarding this announcement.
To commemorate the bar, 
students began selling PHI Tshirts on the Cut the Friday 
after this announcement. 
Its a community object, 
Weiner added, one of the few 
unique CMU hangout spots.
Any future plans for the 
Panther Hollow Inn building 
are still unknown.
Haley Bryant/Staff Photographer
The Panther Hollow Inn (PHI) announced last week that is was closing, igniting a strong reaction from the Carnegie Mellon student community.  
Despite initial rumors, it was con?rmed that the university did not buy PHI. The future of the Panther Hollow Inn building is still unknown.
Haley Bryant/Staff Photographer
The future relationship of Craig Street and Carnegie Mellon opened 
for discussion at last weeks town hall.
[The PHI bar] is a community 
object... One of the few unique 
CMU hangout spots.
Will Weiner
Student Body President
See CRAIG, A3
Greg Hanneman/Senior Artist
See PRESIDENTS, A4

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 29, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFVera Bradley sale raises money for shelter
WEATHER
Underage Drinking
April 19, 2013
At 3:53 p.m., University 
Police were summoned to 
Donner Hall in reference to a 
loud party. Further investigation revealed that seven underage persons had gathered 
in a room and possessed alcoholic beverages. All of the alcoholic beverages were seized 
and disposed of, and each of 
the seven students were issued a citation for underage 
drinking.
Underage Drinking
April 20, 2013
At 3:05 a.m., a University Police of?cer on patrol 
observed a female Chatham 
University student passed 
out at the ?rst ?oor entrance 
to Wean Hall. CMU EMS 
responded and aided the 
female, who regained consciousness. Pittsburgh medics 
were summoned to handle 
transportation to UPMC Presbyterian hospital. A citation 
for underage drinking was issued by mail.
Underage Drinking/
Disorderly Conduct
April 21, 2013
At 1:52 a.m., University 
Police were dispatched to assist Pittsburgh Police of?cers 
at the intersection of Wilkins 
Avenue and Wightman Street. 
A Pittsburgh Police of?cer 
observed a couple engaged 
in sexual activity on the front 
porch of a house where a large 
party was taking place. The 
female ?ed into the house 
as the police approached. 
The of?cers determined that 
there were close to 50 underage persons drinking alcoholic beverages inside. The 
residents of the house, three 
Carnegie Mellon students, 
were charged with providing 
alcohol to minors. The male 
involved in the sexual activity 
was charged with disorderly 
conduct.
Underage Drinking/
Disorderly Conduct
April 21, 2013
At 1:52 a.m., University Police were dispatched to assist 
Pittsburgh city police of?cers 
at the intersection of Wilkins 
Avenue and Wightman Street. 
A Pittsburgh police of?cer 
observed a couple engaged 
in sexual activity on the front 
porch of a house where a large 
party was taking place. The 
female ?ed into the house 
as the police approached. 
The of?cers determined that 
there were close to 50 underage persons drinking alcoholic beverages inside. The 
residents of the house, three 
Carnegie Mellon students, 
were charged with providing 
alcohol to minors. The male 
involved in the sexual activity 
was charged with disorderly 
conduct.
Theft
April 21, 2013
A female student reported 
that someone stole her wallet 
while she attended a party at 
Sigma Chi fraternity between 
midnight and 3:45 a.m. This 
case is under investigation.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The sorority Alpha Chi Omega hosted its annual Vera Bradley sale in the University Center, bene?tting the Pittsburgh Womens Shelter of Greater 
Pittsburgh. The sale is co-sponsored by Cheeks Boutique in Shadyside, and 15 percent of every purchase was donated to the shelter.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Recently, Carnegie Mellon 
researchers demonstrated 
technology that allows users 
to turn almost any surface 
into a touchscreen. 
The system, christened 
WorldKit, was created by 
researchers at the HumanComputer Interaction Institute. WorldKit allows someone to rub most surfaces to 
paint a remote control for 
his or her television and create other ad hoc interfaces.
Doctoral student in human computer interaction 
(HCI) Robert Xiao emphasized that WorldKit does not 
need the complex project 
setup of previous, similar 
technology.
 Depth sensors are getting better and projectors just 
keep getting smaller, Xiao 
said in a university press release. We envision an interactive light bulb  a miniaturized device that could 
be screwed into an ordinary 
light ?xture and pointed or 
moved to wherever an interface is needed. 
The system does not 
require prior calibration; 
WorldKit automatically adjusts its sensing and image 
projection to the orientation 
of the chosen surface. 
Users can summon many 
different kinds of interfaces 
from a menu. Ultimately, the 
developers of WorldKit want 
users to be able to custom design interfaces with gestures.
Although WorldKit currently focuses on interacting 
with physical surfaces, its 
creators hope to make it possible for users to interact with 
the system in free space.
Were only just getting to 
the point where were considering the larger questions, 
Chris Harrison, a Ph.D. student in HCI, said in a university press release.
People have talked about 
creating smart environments 
where sensors, displays and 
computers are interwoven, 
Harrison added, noting that 
a multitude of applications 
in home, of?ce, hospitals, 
nursing homes, and schools  
for WorldKit have yet to be 
explored.
Researchers develop touch-based technology
Robotic paint-stripping system wins award
The Advanced Robotic 
Laser Coating Removal System (ARLCRS), developed 
by Carnegie Mellon Universitys National Robotics Engineering Center (NREC) and 
Concurrent Technologies 
Corporation (CTC) of Johnstown, Penn., was named a 
gold winner in the materials 
science category of the 2013 
Edison Awards, announced 
on April 25 in a ceremony in 
Chicago.
The ARLCRS uses highpowered lasers mounted on 
mobile robotic platforms 
to remove paint and other 
coatings from aircraft. The 
NREC is developing the system for use by the U.S. Air 
Force. Six autonomous mobile robots are being built by 
NREC, each of which will be 
equipped with a high-power 
laser coating remover developed by CTC.
The robots are part of 
a two-year project, during 
which they will work to remove paint from aircrafts at 
Hill Air Force Base in Utah.
The ARLCRS system eliminates the need for abrasives 
or chemical paint removers, 
in turn reducing hazardous 
wastes and emissions. The 
robots ensure accuracy and 
protect human workers from 
danger.
The project is headed by 
Tony Stentz  NREC director and principal investigator   and project manager 
Stuart Lawrence.
Special Allocation: EnactusAcademic AffairsOutreach
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
62 / 49
SATURDAY
High / Low
62 / 49
SUNDAY
High / Low
64 / 54
TUESDAY
High / Low
71 / 58
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
71 / 59
THURSDAY
High / Low
67 / 54
Enactus petitioned the  
Senate for $3,000 to fund 
Project eLuma, a charity concert to be held during Carnival. This event 
was speci?ed in the Joint 
Funding Committee (JFC) 
budget, but due to some 
confusion the money was 
never received. Because the 
Enactus representative was 
unable to answer some important questions, the Senate voted to allocate $0.Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
The creation of the 
Thrive wellness course is 
still under way, but is currently awaiting approval 
from Carnegie Mellons administration and undergoing standard checks and procedures. 
Senate has received money from the university to help 
the creation of Thrive, and 
has also submitted an application for a grant that funds 
initiatives striving to impact 
campus culture. 
Additionally, Senate did 
not receive a large number 
of responses to the current 
draft of the Thrive syllabus, but did receive a few of 
very good quality. 
Senate members were invited to give additional feedback on the course syllabus 
if they wished.
Campus Life
The gallery crawl hosted by 
Senate was not a massive success, due to con?icts with both 
the 1000plus service event 
and booth building; however, 
those who did attend said 
they enjoyed the experience. 
Additionally, Senate planned 
to give out free coffee and donuts during Move-On for Carnival.
Finance
After re-evaluating ?-
nancial allocations, it was 
found that some people and 
organizations had spent less 
money than they were allocated by the Senate. This 
leftover money was added 
back into the Senates balance sheet. Student Senate 
is set to end the academic 
year in a ?nancially stable 
position.
The Senate With You 
outreach event was declared a success, with Senate members putting up 
balloons on the CFA Lawn 
despite a downpour of rain. 
Additionally, the publicity event Bring a Friend to 
Senate Day was also declared successful.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
New SMART IDs to be issued this fall
street. Murphy then opened 
the ?oor to the audience, asking What is your vision for 
Craig Street? 
The audience had a wide 
variety of suggestions, such 
as having retailers selling 
Carnegie Mellon merchandise, having some Carnival 
events there, or having a visual connection to the school, 
such as painted thistles on 
sidewalks. 
Murphy said that the current plan for representation 
of the university was to keep 
symbols subtle yet iconic. 
Another popular idea was 
asking businesses to stay 
open an hour or two later 
some nights. 
As one attendee pointed 
out, [Craig Street is] a place 
where students could go, but 
then the hours would have to 
match their weeks. 
The idea of closing down 
traf?c on Craig Street to create a place for students to 
congregate was also suggested. Director of the Remaking 
Cities Institute and member 
of the Simonds Commission Don Carter said that the 
Commission had investigated 
this possibility, but the museums on Craig Street needed 
the space to let their patrons 
exit on the weekends. 
The audience consisted of 
mostly faculty, but all were 
clearly passionate about the 
project. 
Assistant Vice President 
for Diversity and Equal Opportunity Services Everett 
Tademy said, Im invested in 
the project because Carnegie 
Mellon is invested in it. 
Director of Facilities Management Services and professor of civil and environmental engineering Don Coffelt 
was invested in the project as 
a faculty member and a resident of the Craig Street area. 
He expressed enthusiasm 
about the project, saying, 
I think the only complicating factor is its going to take 
time. Because its complex, 
and you dont want to get it 
wrong.... It would be harder 
to ?x if we got it wrong than it 
is to go slowly and make sure 
we get it right.
Plans for university expansion revealedBRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
Students were recently 
asked to vote on a new design 
for the Carnegie Mellon student ID card.
Next year, every Carnegie 
Mellon student, faculty member, and staff member will receive a new SMART ID card. 
Those who currently have 
a sponsored or af?liated ID 
will not receive a new SMART 
card, as the technology on 
the new cards is being used 
for public transportation access. Currently, such access is 
marked by a bus icon on the 
ID card. 
The transition to SMART 
cards comes as a result of a 
new agreement between the 
university and Port Authority 
of Allegheny County (PAT). 
According to the HUBs website, SMART cards contain 
a computer chip allowing a 
cardholder to simply tap 
his or her card on the PAT 
bus (or incline or T) reader in 
order to gain transportation 
access.
The change in Carnegie 
Mellons agreement with Port 
Authority also resulted in an 
increase in the transportation fee that students pay  
from $110 to $120, according 
to the HUBs website. 
Other than the change in 
transportation access, the 
SMART cards will be used in 
the same ways that current 
ID cards are used, including 
access to a students Plaid 
Ca$h, print quota, and oncampus residence. 
The University of Pittsburgh already employs 
SMART-card technology, and 
according to the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette, it recently extended its agreement with 
PAT for another ?ve years. 
Carnegie Mellon, Chatham University, and the 
University of Pittsburgh  
the three local universities 
that pay the PAT for unlimited rides  generate about 
600,000 rides per month, 
about 11 percent of PATs 
total riders, according to the 
Post-Gazette. 
Students received emails 
asking for submissions for 
designs for the new ID cards. 
There has been some controversy among students about 
the three designs being offered as voting options. 
[The new designs] are 
not great. There is one thats 
okay, but other than that the 
designs couldve been better, 
said Nathan Oh, a ?rst-year 
information systems major. 
Camilo Estrada, a ?rstyear vocal performance major, agreed. I feel like we 
could come up with something better. 
The controversy over the 
submitted designs offered 
even led to an online petition on change.org, written 
by Jordan Wu, an undeclared 
?rst-year CFA student. 
In the petition, Wu wrote 
that after viewing the submissions, I believe that the 
designs are not the best that 
CMU has to offer us. It is implausible to me that CMU, 
with our amazing arts and 
design schools, could produce designs such as these. 
Frankly, I would be embarrassed showing any of these 
designs to anyone as a representation of our school. 
Samantha Dickinson, a junior creative writing and linguistics double major, spoke 
about the effect that the appearance of the ID card could 
have on some students. 
I guess people see it as a 
re?ection of themselves, so 
carrying around something 
that they dont want to represent them could be problematic, she said. 
The petition has over a 
hundred signatures and comments such as we can do better than this. 
Dickinson also said that 
she supports the adoption of 
a really basic design. I dont 
usually look at my ID anyway.
When students return for 
the fall semester, they will 
be able to pick up their new 
SMART cards Sept. 2327 
from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at 
Andys Alcove on the lower 
level of the University Center.
In order to receive a new 
ID card, students must return 
their old card, or face the 
standard $25 replacement 
fee. 
New undergraduate 
students will receive their 
SMART cards during Orientation.
Haley Bryant/Junior Photographer
Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy presented plans for 
Carnegie Mellon to expand into the Craig Street and Oakland areas.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Students responded to the new CMU ID card designs with mixed reactions. 
CRAIG, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 29, 2013
egie Institute of Technology 
 and control of the institute 
passed to a New York-based 
corporation after Andrew 
Carnegies death  Hamerschlag felt increasingly left 
out, according to biographers. 
He resigned his presidency at 
the end of June 1922.
Thomas S. Baker, Hamerschlags successor as president, was a music critic, scholar, and teacher of German 
literature with a Ph.D. from 
Johns Hopkins University. 
He had joined Carnegie Tech 
three years earlier as the institutes secretary, equivalent 
to vice president. Baker began 
his term of?cially as acting 
president from July 1922 until being named president in 
full the following February.
From the beginning, Bakers education was welcomed 
by the campus community. 
The announcement that Dr. 
Baker has been appointed 
president is received with 
much satisfaction by alumni 
and students, wrote The Tartans editors in the Feb. 14, 
1923 issue. For he is a man 
of learning and also a good 
scholar who has devoted his 
life to the advancement of 
teaching; besides he has a 
great personality which has 
won him many friends in this 
country and abroad.
Bakers tenure at Carnegie Tech marked a halt in 
construction and a shift to 
spiritual, cultural, and character-building efforts, Fenton wrote. Projects ranged 
in scope from the paving of 
muddy campus walkways 
to advancing the prowess of 
Carnegie Techs drama program and research capabilities. Baker himself gave lectures in French and German 
on European speaking tours.
Within these two contrasting frameworks  down-toearth practicality and scholarly re?nement, science and 
art  the next six presidents 
of Carnegie Tech and, later, 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
set the foundation for the 
school as it is today.
Issues shared and unique
Some campus issues have 
troubled a number of the universitys administrations over 
the years, no matter the background of their presidents.
One such topic that rose to 
prominence this school year 
was criticism of Carnegie Mellons stress culture and accusations of insuf?cient mental 
health resources being available to those who seek them. 
It led to a town-hall meeting 
hosted by representatives of 
Student Affairs, the provosts 
of?ce, and student government. However, 2013 is not 
the only time that the student 
body and administrators have 
discussed problems with the 
communitys well-being.
From his ?rst greeting to 
students, Baker was encouraging students to attend to 
their physical and mental 
health, as well as to their 
education. Your happiness 
and success will be increased 
if you get something more 
from your college life than 
that which is secured in the 
class room and laboratory, 
he wrote in the Sept. 20, 
1922, issue of The Tartan. I 
wish it were possible for every 
student to take part in some 
branch of athletics.... I hope 
also that every student will 
have a share in some phase of 
undergraduate social life.
President Robert Dohertys 
annual report for 1937 put 
the situation more bluntly: 
There must be less stress; a 
reduction must be made in 
the intensity of scheduled 
work.
As he was retiring as Carnegie Techs fourth president 
at the end of 1964, Warner 
alluded to both the nature 
and the amount of the universitys coursework as ongoing 
challenges. We have, I believe, taken the easy way out 
of merely increasing our demands upon students without 
changing signi?cantly what 
we teach or how we teach it, 
he said during a lecture. The 
result has been to increase the 
drudgery of learning without 
adding appreciably to the excitement of learning.
Other issues facing Carnegie Mellons administrators 
were more tied to a particular 
time or place.
H. Guyford Stever, in the 
presidents of?ce 19651972, 
presided over a particularly 
tough period as both Carnegie Tech and American society changed rapidly in the 
late 60s. Stevers administration oversaw Carnegie Techs 
complicated merger with the 
Mellon Institute in 1967, followed by an era of student 
Past Carnegie Mellon presidents 
made lasting impact on campusMeeting addresses Scott Hall construction, UC renovations
LAUREN WILLIAMS
Staffwriter
A Town Hall presentation 
open to all members of the 
Carnegie Mellon community 
was held last Tuesday to discuss two major Campus Projects: the construction of the 
Sherman and Joyce Bowie 
Scott Hall and the upcoming 
additions to the University 
Center.
Ralph Horgan, associate vice provost of Campus 
Design and Facility Development, began the meeting with 
an overview of the two projects. Dean of the College of 
Engineering Jim Garrett then 
discussed the history of the 
Scott Hall building.
The Scott Hall project 
began seven years ago as a 
vision of a nanotechnology 
laboratory. This vision took 
its ?rst step toward reality 
when Carnegie Mellon alumnus John Bertucci (E 63, TSB 
65) provided funding for a 
feasibility study. Gary Fedder, 
Carnegie Mellon professor 
and director of the Institute 
for Complex Engineered Systems (ICES), then put together a proposal for the building, 
which at the time did not 
receive funding. The university eventually approached 
Sherman Scott about possible 
funding for an energy institute, and according to Garrett, Suddenly we had the 
different pieces, that when 
put together, would allow this 
building to move forward.
In addition to the Scott 
donation, funding has been 
received from sources such 
as the Eden Hall Foundation 
and Richard King Mellon 
Foundation. 
A building design was created that would incorporate 
biomedical engineering, nanotechnology, and the Scott 
Energy Institute. Following 
Garrett, Fedder spoke regarding the design and contents of 
the building.
Scott Hall will include a 
clean room, or nanofabrication facility, that will house 
equipment used to make electronics and sensors. This room 
will be at the same level as the 
current fourth ?oor of Wean 
Hall. The biomedical engineering department labs will 
be housed on the same level 
as the clean room; biomedical engineering of?ces will be 
located one ?oor above. Presently, the biomedical engineering facilities are separate 
from the main campus and 
located on the Monongahela 
River. 
Having them on campus 
and in proximity to both Wean 
Hall and Roberts Hall is going 
to make a huge difference in 
research and interactions, 
Fedder said.
The Scott Energy Institute 
will be located on the same 
level as the Mall, or ?fth ?oor 
of Wean Hall, and will house 
engineering for power systems, as well as battery and 
solar work. The space in the 
top level of the building has 
not been designated but will 
possibly hold the ICES Disruptive Health Technologies 
Institute, which will research 
methods to lower the cost of 
health care.
Furthermore, Scott Hall 
will contain a caf similar 
to Tazza DOro in the Gates 
Hillman Complex, as well as 
conference rooms and study 
areas.
Visuals were then shown 
depicting the layout of Scott 
Hall. Unique features of the 
building include the green 
roof above the clean room, 
the anchoring of the structure 
on table legs, and the use of 
dichroic glass, which changes 
colors when hit by sunlight. 
Additionally, Scott Hall 
will have indoor connections 
to Baker and Porter Halls, 
Hamerschlag Hall, and Wean 
Hall, and will have a bridge to 
Roberts Engineering Hall.
Attendees of the Town 
Hall asked questions ranging from building design issues to parking concerns. 
Live construction and traf?c 
updates, as well as a webcam, 
can be found on the Scott Hall 
website.
Following the Scott Hall 
presentation, Vice President for Campus Affairs 
Michael Murphy described 
the upcoming additions and 
renovations to the University 
Center. 
Most of you are aware 
that athletics have been a big 
issue on campus. This project 
couples the commitment to 
athletics with a similarly important issue for us, which is 
a black box theater, Murphy 
said. 
Additionally, theres this 
notion that weve turned our 
back on Forbes Avenue, because of the loading dock 
there. One major piece of 
this is creating a much more 
positive front to Forbes Avenue.
This University Center 
project is the second step of a 
three-phase endeavor to improve Carnegie Mellons athletic facilities; the ?rst phase 
was the addition of turf to the 
soccer ?eld, and the third will 
be the redevelopment of the 
Skibo Gymnasium. Although 
the design is not yet complete, 
an architect for the project has 
been selected. Director of Athletics Susan Bassett described 
the preliminary additions.
Approximately 20,000 
square feet of the 48,000 
-square-foot addition will be 
dedicated to ?tness, including two exercise studios, cardiovascular, free-weight, and 
Cybex equipment, stretching 
areas, and a spinning studio.
Were really excited about 
this, Bassett said. It will absolutely transform our programs. Im equally excited 
about the black box theater
This is going to create an appropriate, dedicated theater 
space for rehearsals and performances for all our student 
groups.
Project manager Andrew 
Reilly then discussed the 
timeline of the project, which 
will be in the design phase 
from May 2013 to February 
2014 and under construction from March 2014 to July 
2015. 
Reilly said, Were going to 
impact campus. This project 
will affect areas such as the 
drop-off next to the University 
Center, the parking garage entrance, and the pool. Another 
goal of the University Center project is to calm Forbes 
Avenue. Possibilities include 
narrowing Forbes Avenue to 
a two-lane road with turn 
lanes, improving pedestrian 
walkways and bike paths, 
and adding additional traf?c 
lights.
During the question and 
answer session, some members of the university community offered suggestions 
or raised concerns. Mary-Lou 
Arscott, architect and studio 
professor at Carnegie Mellon, 
proposed that the renovations 
bring natural light to the basement ?oor of the University 
Center. I have a point about 
the basement, which is sorely 
missing daylight. This is our 
social life  the shops, the 
bank, the post of?ce  these 
are the things that everybody 
has to come across. People are 
working down there  and 
yet they never see the daylight. It seems like a key to the 
community, she said.  
Additionally, fellow architect and Carnegie Mellon 
studio professor Hal Hayes 
praised the project, saying, 
I think its a great program. 
All the things that are going 
in here can really contribute 
so positively to student recruitment and retention, and 
faculty recruitment and retention.  Hayes was concerned, 
however, about the lack of 
adequate dining options in 
the University Center.  [One] 
thing I think is missing from 
this is that we have no decent 
restaurants where you can 
take parents, or anybody who 
wants to go to one of these 
performances. That would be 
a tremendous asset to campus, said. 
According to Reilly, such 
topics have been in discussion 
and will be considered during 
the design process.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Ralph Horgan, the universitys associate vice provost of Campus Design and Facility Development, describes 
construction projects for Scott Hall and an addition to the University Center last Tuesday.
There must be less stress; a 
reduction must be made in the 
intensity of scheduled work.
Robert Doherty
Carnegie Tech president, 1937
PRESIDENTS, from A1
See PRESIDENTS, A5
One major piece of this is 
creating a much more positive 
front to Forbes Avenue. 
Michael Murphy
Vice President for Campus Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A5
and faculty unrest for a variety of 
reasons.
CMU students may go on record as the ?rst ones ever to throw 
marshmallows at a U.S. Senator, 
read a Tartan article on Jan. 23, 
1970, after a small number of students disrupted a speech by Senator Strom Thurmond (RS.C.). 
Other acts of Vietnam-era protest 
included a ransacking of Carnegie 
Mellons ROTC of?ce, blocking 
access to the Wean Hall construction site in support of minority workers, and a student/faculty 
mass meeting opposing required 
courses in the newly organized 
College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences.
President Stever walked a ?ne 
line, defending the right of students and faculty to free speech 
while he attempted to explain his 
stance to the students who did not 
share the views of the protesters, 
Fenton wrote in his Centennial 
History.
Lincoln Wolfenstein, a professor emeritus of physics who 
came to Carnegie Tech in 1948, 
remembered being at odds with 
President Richard M. Cyert, in of?ce between 1972 and 1990, over 
the universitys new Software 
Engineering Institute and projects from the U.S. Department of 
Defense.
I had this saying  we like to 
say the university needs money 
in order to carry out its function, 
and then in contrast I said sometimes Cyert seemed to think the 
function of the university was to 
get money, Wolfenstein said. So 
[Cyert] set up a committee to discuss this question of freedom on 
campus. Should there be restricted work going on, so people who 
did something couldnt talk to the 
rest of the campus about it? Was 
that a bad idea and how to limit 
that?
Though the SEI and the Defense Department contracts 
stayed, Wolfenstein gave Cyert credit for being forthcoming and discussing the issues 
with concerned members of the 
community.
Seventh president Robert 
Mehrabian took over in 1990 at 
a time when Carnegie Mellons 
rapid transformation into a national research university had 
placed increasing strains on the 
schools resources, Fenton wrote. 
In response, Mehrabian created a 
structured administration where 
data and information were empasized  to some extent  over 
personal interactions.
Rather than see individual 
faculty members of the university, he preferred to have them 
work through their deans or vice 
presidents, Fenton wrote. This 
administrative style functioned 
well, but it offended some faculty 
and staff members who were accustomed to having direct contact 
with the man in the presidents 
chair.
Students expressed similar 
opinions in The Tartan when 
commenting in March 1996 on 
Mehrabians suddenly announced 
resignation. Maybe well get a 
president that well actually see 
around, one complained, while 
another rhetorically asked, How 
can I miss someone Ive never 
seen?
Replacing the president
From ?rst consideration to 
?nal selection, the process of 
choosing a presidential successor 
can take a year or more.
Cohon, set to step down from 
of?ce on June 30, will be replaced 
by current National Science Foundation Director and former Dean 
of MITs School of Engineering 
Subra Suresh. Suresh was selected as president in February after 
a three-part process, beginning in 
the 201112 school year with the 
formation of a search committee 
and the hiring of a search ?rm, 
followed by a series of meetings to 
gather input. Formal proceedings 
of the committee  made up of 
eight faculty members, eight university trustees, and one trustee 
chair  began in July 2012.
A.D. Tony Rollett, a professor 
of materials science and engineering, was the search committees 
co-chair and 201112 chair of the 
Faculty Senate. The overall presidential search process, he said, 
was a combination of what was 
done here previously and what 
we thought was a good idea anyway.
Rollett said that the committees early action included drawing up a white-paper report on 
the desired qualities of the universitys next president  a step that 
was also carried out in Carnegie 
Mellons two previous presidential searches in 1989 and 1996. 
The use of a single 17-member 
search committee, however, varied from previous practices that 
sometimes used multiple bodies 
divided into faculty, trustees, students, or other groups.
Despite the difference, Rollett 
said the single committee worked 
well together under leader Jim 
Rohr, executive chairman of the 
PNC Financial Services Group. 
Faculty and trustees dont normally mix very much, Rollett 
said. Theres a certain element of 
... getting used to each other.
A new step this time around, 
gathering input from all of Carnegie Mellons department heads, 
was well received and produced 
remarkably consistent results 
across campus. That was really 
interesting, Rollett said. There 
was a very coherent view of the 
university and a pretty coherent 
view of what the issues were.
Successfully ?nding and selecting the right new president is 
not always a seamless transfer.
Cohons retirement date of 
June 30, 2013  a one-year extension beyond his previous term 
 was formally set in August 
2010, giving university administrators almost three years of advance planning time. Even with 
signi?cant lead time, transitions 
have not always been as smooth 
as hoped.
Warner, who served a year as 
Carnegie Techs vice president in 
1949 before being elevated to the 
presidency in 1950, hoped for a 
similar handoff on his own retirement in the 1960s, according to 
biographer Ludwig F. Schaefer. 
In 1961, at the age of 64  four 
years before a mandatory retirement age  Warner sent a memo 
to the board of trustees outlining 
desired characteristics for his replacement. 
Search committees were set up 
in 1962 and had drafted desired 
criteria for candidates by 1963, 
but no presidential successor had 
been chosen before Warners preferred retirement date of June 
1964.
Foreshadowing Cohons 2012 
term extension, Warner agreed to 
remain at Carnegie Tech for up to 
an extra year. 
Stever, then an MIT professor, 
was eventually named as the next 
president in October 1964, to take 
over Feb. 1, 1965.
Stevers own abrupt resignation, upon being nominated to 
lead the National Science Foundation, left the university lacking a 
president for ?ve months. 
Without a successor in place, 
the Board of Trustees appointed 
Edward R. Schatz, Carnegie Mellons vice president for Academic 
Affairs, to ?ll in temporarily from 
February 1972. Schatz remains 
the universitys only acting president who did not continue into a 
full term to lead the institution.
The trustees had narrowed 
their list of permanent candidates down to four by April, but it 
wasnt until May 9 that the board 
formally recommended Cyert, 
then the dean of Carnegie Mellons Graduate School of Industrial Administration, to the post 
effective July 1.
Even with the process over, 
some members of the board had 
reservations about the future. 
Some trustees feel that the responsibilities of running the University are now so heavy and varied, the May 9, 1972, meeting 
minutes noted, that at the proper 
time we should consider complementing the president with another top of?cer whose main job 
would be to serve as a kind of outside president for such matters 
as fund-raising, public relations, 
etc.
Presidential legacies
With the 201 decision to name 
the Collaborative Innovation Center after Mehrabian, all of Carnegie Mellons past presidents are 
memorialized with at least one 
building on the Pittsburgh campus. They also have a presence on 
the second ?oor of Hunt Library, 
where university archivist J. 
Dustin Williams manages a collection of presidential artifacts.
Most of the collection consists 
of administrative materials from 
the presidents of?ce, Williams 
said, but there are more personal 
items as well, including presidential correspondence, speeches and 
papers written by the presidents, 
and other memorabilia.
I was actually just looking at a 
merry Christmas [message] from 
the faculty  kind of a nice one  
that was to Baker, if I remember, 
Williams said. He also singled 
out presidential correspondence, 
which gave a more personal sense 
of what Carnegie Mellons leaders thought during their times in 
of?ce.
We try to keep everything that 
we can that the presidents of?ce 
can give to us, Williams said, 
even though most materials arent 
open to the public until 50 years 
after they were produced. We 
are in the process of trying to get 
more materials from Mehrabians 
time and, especially right now, Dr. 
Cohons time.
A less physical legacy of past 
presidents is their effect on the 
leaders who replace them. 
The personal qualities of a 
long-term, well-liked president 
can become core parts of a successors job description.
Searching for Warners successor after a 39-year career as a professor, department head, dean, 
vice president, and president became a hunt for a combination of 
academic and personal qualities 
that only a genius with the values 
of a saint and the constitution of 
an Olympic athlete could meet, 
Fenton wrote.
Likewise, Cohons 16-year 
tenure at Carnegie Mellon left 
an imprint on the search for his 
replacement.
Nobody was saying exactly 
Get another Jerry, because you 
cant, Rollett said of last years 
input-gathering process, but nevertheless some of those characteristics were very important.
Suresh, as a materials scientist, 
does, however, share academic 
background with Cohon, an environmental engineer. 
More than one trustee turned 
to me and said, Is it necessary to 
have a scientist-engineer?  Rollett said. And I said, No. 
Similar themes permeate terms of various past presidents
Thomas S.
Baker
19221936
John C.
Warner
19501965
H.  Guyford
Stever
19651972
Richard M.
Cyert
19721990
Robert
Mehrabian
19901997
Jared L.
Cohon
19972013
Subra
Suresh
2013
Robert E.
Doherty
19361950
Arthur A.
Hamerschlag
19031922
Give and take with the NSF
With the appointment of 
Subra Suresh as Carnegie Mellons ninth president later this 
year, the director of the National Science Foundation will 
become the president of Carnegie Mellon. Four decades ago, 
it was the president of Carnegie Mellon who became the director of the National Science 
Foundation.
Rumors surfaced during 
the fall of 1971 that H. Guyford Stever, the universitys top 
of?cial for the past six years, 
would soon be U.S. President 
Richard Nixons nominee to 
head the NSF. The Tartan, citing reports in The Boston Globe, 
ran a front-page article on the 
possibility in its Nov. 4 issue. 
President Stever, because of 
his strong professional quali?cations and reputation as 
an independent Republican, 
would most likely have little 
trouble gaining Congressional 
approval, the paper speculated.
Stever himself was noncommittal. One doesnt talk 
about such a nomination until 
one gets one. When a de?nite 
offer comes, you begin to consider it, he said in the same 
article.
Behind the scenes, however, university of?cials were 
preparing for a leadership 
change. Fred Foy, the chairman 
of Carnegie Mellons Board of 
Trustees, impaneled a presidential search committee that 
met for the ?rst time four days 
later. Calling Stevers resignation a virtual certainty, the 
trustees tasked the committee  which included Stever 
himself as a member  with 
soliciting feedback from other 
trustees, students, faculty, and 
alumni on desired quali?cations and lists of candidates 
they would like the trustees to 
consider for the universitys 
next president, according to 
the trustees meeting minutes.
Nixon of?cially nominated 
Stever to the NSF directors 
position on Nov. 15, and Stever 
con?rmed in the Nov. 18 Tartan that he would resign and 
accept the NSF nomination.
Forty years later, Sureshs 
distinction and visibility as 
head of the NSF helped respond to concerns that Carnegie Mellon is a stealth university  less well-known 
than Harvard or MIT  said 
professor A.D. Tony Rollett, 
the co-chair of the 201112 
presidential search committee.
Sureshs acceptance of the 
presidency is a little bit of a 
boost for us all by itself, that 
somebody as visible as that 
would come here, Rollett said.
PRESIDENTS, from A4
Campus buildings named for former presidents
Hamerschlag Hall
built 1913; renamed 1965
Hamerschlag House
built 1960
Baker Hall
built 1914; renamed 1965
Doherty Hall
built 1909; renamed 1965
Doherty Apartments
built 1959
Warner Hall
built 1966
Stever House
built 2003; renamed 2008
Cyert Hall
built 1983
Mehrabian CIC
built 2005, renamed 2012
Photos by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 29, 2013
Phone game helps illiterate Pakistanis ?nd employment
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
A simple telephone game 
called Polly hardly seems like a 
life-changing technology with 
the potential to aid developing 
countries. However, Carnegie 
Mellon Language Technologies Institute professor Roni 
Rosenfeld and Ph.D. student 
Agha Ali Razas use of Polly to 
help illiterate people in Pakistan get in touch with prospective employers does indeed 
have that potential.
Polly is a simple game in 
which a caller can record a 
message, add various funny 
sound effects, and send it to 
a friend. The user begins the 
game by calling Pollys number. Its a missed-call mechanism, Raza said. When you 
call, Polly doesnt pick up, but 
instead calls you back so you 
dont have to pay for the call. 
This is because the people 
with whom we are working 
with are generally poor so 
they are sensitive about the 
air-time cost.  
Next, the user records a 
message. Polly then plays 
back the message with several 
different sound effects, such as 
the I have to run to the bathroom effect, the drunk chipmunk effect, the whisper 
effect, or background music. 
The user then selects one of 
the effects and gives Polly the 
number of the friend whom it 
will be sent to.
A system as simple as Polly 
is easy for people here to use, 
Raza said. But in developing countries its a big challenge for people because they 
expect a person on the other 
end of the phone. So how do 
we teach them? One way is to 
develop something so fun that 
they want to learn it themselves. 
Polly is this development. It 
teaches low-skilled and illiterate people how to use speech 
interfaces in an entertaining 
way.
But as fun as it is to send 
silly messages to friends, thats 
not all that Polly is capable of 
doing. In Pollys main menu, 
there is also an option to listen 
to job postings. Part of our 
team is working in Pakistan, 
Raza said. They scan the daily newspaper and try to ?nd 
advertisements that are suitable for low-skilled workers. 
These are updated every two 
to three days. Examples of 
such jobs include positions for 
maids, gardeners, and drivers. 
This unique feature offers 
illiterate individuals the opportunity to apply for jobs 
they wouldnt have heard of 
otherwise. Polly also gives the 
option of forwarding advertisement postings to friends. 
Its very hard to reach people 
who arent educated and cant 
read or write, Rosenfeld said. 
You cant reach them through 
newspapers or through billboards. The only way you can 
reach them is by sound  by 
voice.
Polly has been an extreme success since it ?rst 
launched last May. According to a live tracker of Polly 
online, its overall call volume 
has reached over 160,000 users and job advertisements 
have been listened to by over 
380,000 callers. There are approximately 700 job advertisements posted in the system; 
this means that, on average, 
each job advertisement has 
been listened to around 500 
times. In addition to job postings, Raza and Rosenfeld are 
looking into how to incorporate surveys and public service 
announcements into Polly. 
This way, Polly can both disseminate and gather information. Other possible directions 
for future expansion include 
giving reports on health, agriculture, or weather  things 
that people need on an everyday basis.
Polly is currently centered 
in Pakistan, because that is 
where Raza is from, which 
makes it easy for him to communicate with the people 
there. Its generally a good 
idea to have locals working 
with you who can also understand the work you are doing, 
Raza said. They plan to launch 
Polly in India next week, and 
they will continue to expand 
it in the years to come. We 
will just write down the phone 
number and give it to some 
low-literate people and tell 
them to call it and see what 
happens, Raza said. Thats 
how we launched Polly in the 
?rst place, and thats how it 
took off.
In fact, Raza and Rosenfeld 
only gave Pollys number to 
?ve Pakistanis last May. We 
havent given it to anybody 
else. Polly spread by itself, 
Rosenfeld said.
Polly is a simple game, but 
it exempli?es a concept that 
has the potential to make a 
big difference in the world: 
using entertainment to reach 
underprivileged populations. 
If Polly spreads throughout 
the rest of the world as fast as 
it spread through Pakistan, it 
will change millions of lives.
Students place ?fth in Putnam mathematics competition
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Though practicing math 
problems may sound dull and 
even repulsive to some, three 
students happily put their 
math skills to the test by representing Carnegie Mellon in 
the William Lowell Putnam 
Competition, one of the most 
prestigious math competitions 
in the country. They took ?fth 
place in the competition.
Each participating school 
sends a representative threeperson team to compete. The 
schools ranking is essentially 
the sum of the team members 
individual places, with lowersum teams ranking higher. 
The team members  sophomore mathematics majors 
Albert Gu and Michael Druggan, along with ?rst-year Science and Humanities Scholar 
and mathematics major Linus 
Hamilton  regularly attend 
the weekly Putnam seminar, 
taught by assistant professor 
of mathematical sciences PoShen Loh. There, they prepare 
and practice math problems 
from topics covered by the undergraduate math curriculum 
including analysis, algebra 
group theory, combinatorics, 
and more. 
The teammates also met for 
three hours every Sunday and 
occasionally did problems by 
themselves to prepare for the 
Putnam Competition.
This year, 4,277 American 
and Canadian undergraduates from 578 institutions participated in the competition, 
which was held in December. 
The students were given six 
hours to solve 12 complex 
mathematical problems using a combination of creative 
thinking and concepts taught 
in college mathematics courses. In total, 138 Carnegie Mellon students participated in 
this years competition, and 30 
placed in the top 500. Hamilton placed in the top 10.
According to Gu, problems 
that appear in the competition 
act as brainteasers because 
they have a different ?avor 
from math and they differ 
from problems that a mathematician typically encounters. The peculiarity of problems may be what inspired the 
three to compete in the ?rst 
place. All three had been competing since high school.
Carnegie Mellon placed 
among the top ?ve of the nations teams. It is possible the 
team members success came 
from constant practice and 
starting early.
I feel that this year, there 
werent any problems that 
[were] especially out of the ordinary, Gu said.
Druggan also felt con?dent 
going into the competition. I 
was good at math, so competition was fun, even though I 
didnt learn anything, he said.
All members agreed that 
math contests like the Putnam Competition bring them 
satisfaction since they help 
strengthen their problemsolving skills.
Despite their bright attitude and seemingly impressive results, the team members 
met some obstacles during 
this years Putnam. Gu and 
Druggan agreed that they did 
not fair as well in the recent 
Putnam as they did in past 
competitions.
Some problems were just 
hard; the solution came out of 
nowhere, and it [was] hard to 
come up with, Gu said.
Druggan echoed Gus sentiments. Unfortunately, everyone did poorly on this [years 
competition] because the hard 
problems were just too hard, 
he said.
According to the team 
members, some of the problems they ran into included 
missing ?ne details that 
judges deemed important, 
and not being able to conjure 
up creative solutions quickly 
enough. However, the team 
remains undeterred in their 
future math competition pursuits. After all, competitions 
like the Putnam are meant to 
be activites that students like 
Gu and Druggan accomplish 
in addition to going to class 
and doing homework.
Coming in ?fth was a nice 
surprise, but we hope to do 
better next year, Gu said.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Ph.D. student Agha Ali Raza (left) and professor Roni Rosenfeld (right) of the Language Technologies Institute have used the telephone game Polly to 
help illiterate Pakistanis ?nd suitable employment. 
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Polly works by allowing a user to call Polly, leave a message, and give a number to receive the message.
Coming in ?fth was a nice 
surprise, but we hope to do 
better next year.
Albert Gu 
Sophomore mathematics major
Desiree Xu/Business Manager
Albert Gu (left), Michael Druggan (right), and Linus Hamilton (not pictured) recently represented Carnegie Mellon at the William Lowell Putnam Competition.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Staffwriter
If you ever ?nd yourself 
being interrogated in a room 
similar to one found in Law 
and Order, you might wonder if the mirror in the room 
is a one-way mirror, a mirror 
that is re?ective on one side 
but transparent on the other. 
Once you know how one-way 
mirrors work, however, you 
can understand various ways 
to tell them apart from ordinary mirrors.
Lets ?rst look at how normal re?ective mirrors work. 
Basically, a re?ective mirror is 
a glass sheet with its back surface silvered. The silvered surface re?ects the light that falls 
on the mirror. This re?ected 
light creates the perception of 
an image behind the mirror.
One-way mirrors, on the 
other hand, have only their 
front surface partially silvered. This coating is very 
thin and allows a large 
amount of the light falling on 
the mirror to pass through, 
while re?ecting the rest. The 
re?ected light gives the perception of an image. The rest 
of the light passes through to 
the other side.
But if one-way mirrors let 
light through and the persons 
behind it can see you, why 
cant you see them? The lights 
in the place behind the mirror are dimmed or the room 
is simply left dark; in contrast, the room in which the 
mirror is kept is brightly lit. So 
for the person looking into the 
mirror, a lot of the light falling 
on it from his or her side is re?ected back, but barely any 
light is transmitted from the 
other side. However, a great 
deal of light passes through 
the glass into the dark chamber on the other side, allowing the people there to observe the activity in front of 
the mirror.
This knowledge leads to 
the critical question, How do 
you tell if a mirror is a one-way 
mirror? While there are multiple ways to tell them apart, 
one simple test is extremely 
effective. Extend your hand 
toward the mirror, so that 
your ?ngernail just touches 
the mirror. If you see a small 
space between your nail and 
its image, it is an ordinary 
mirror. However, if the nail 
and its image are touching 
each other, you should be 
aware that it is likely to be a 
one-way mirror and someone may be observing you. 
This technique works because 
ordinary mirrors have the 
back surface silvered, leading to a gap between the nail 
and its image. One-way mirrors, on the other hand, have 
their front surface silvered, so 
there is no gap.
Another technique involves turning the light off on 
your side and shining a ?ashlight at the mirror. This would 
reverse the effect of the oneway mirror, and you should 
be able to see through to the 
other side. In an ordinary mirror, you would just see your 
re?ection. 
Alternatively, you could 
rap on the mirror with a 
knuckle. A real mirror, which 
is backed by a wall, will give 
a muf?ed sound, while a 
one-way mirror will produce 
a much sharper sound. This 
sharp sound is similar to 
what you hear if you rap your 
knuckle against a pane of 
glass, such as a window pane.
HOW THINGS WORKOne-way mirrors act as useful surveillance tools
Researchers create battery for edible robot pills
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
Robots that track your inner bodys functions may seem 
like science ?ction, but Carnegie Mellon researchers are 
working to create electronically active, edible medical 
devices that can be implanted 
in a patients body. This development would essentially allow patients to ingest devices 
such as drug delivery systems 
or biosensors in pill form, and 
would be far less invasive than 
traditional methods of implantation. The device would move 
through ones gastrointestinal 
(GI) tract like food. Christopher Bettinger, assistant professor of materials science and 
engineering and biomedical 
engineering, along with Jay 
Whitacre, professor of materials science and engineering, 
have completed the ?rst step 
in the process by designing 
edible power sources for such 
devices.
The battery, designed with 
materials that are safe to 
consume, is also meant to be 
taken in pill form. We have 
designed a battery that is 
made of simple, biocompatible 
materials that are consumed 
daily in common diets.... This 
is a platform technology that 
can serve as a power supply to 
drive active electronics on any 
edible medical device, Bettinger said via email.
The devices are designed 
with ?exible polymer electrodes and a sodium ion electrochemical cell, which allows 
the device to be folded into 
an edible pill that can be consumed by the patient. The 
device is simply swallowed 
and follows the normal path 
of food through the GI tract, 
Bettinger said. The batterys 
power supply lasts roughly an 
hour, and the remnants pass 
through the patients system 
as waste within 1824 hours. 
This method makes the battery economically ef?cient.
This battery is designed 
for one-time use without recharging. The idea is to make 
them very cheap so that ingesting at one device per day 
would be economically feasible, Bettinger said.
The development of this 
device is the beginning of an 
innovation in the way medical procedures are performed. 
Making batteries that are 
able to power edible devices 
enables the integration of 
medical devices noninvasively 
for a variety of potential functions including sensors, drug 
delivery systems, etc., Bettinger said. One example 
would be that we can perhaps 
have a system that can deliver 
large protein molecules to the 
body by programming their 
release in the small intestine. 
We havent done this yet, but 
its a potential application.
While there are some technological hurdles to overcome, 
such as ensuring that the device is packaged well enough 
to withstand the acidic environment of the stomach, the 
team has ensured that the process is at least psychologically 
comfortable and biologically 
safe for patients. We think 
there is a big future in edible 
devices because most patients 
are comfortable with swallowing a pill, Bettinger said. 
Furthermore, the safe and 
biocompatible design of the 
device largely reduces the risk 
of any negative side effects as 
it passes through the GI tract.
The development of a safe, 
economically ef?cient power 
source has set the foundation to begin the development 
and widespread use of edible 
medical devices that perform 
targeted functions and offer 
treatments.
The battery that we have 
developed is just the beginning. Once you have the 
battery technology down  
which we do  this opens up a 
lot of different applications in 
actively powered edible electronics, Bettinger said.
Bettinger and Whitacre 
believe that edible electronic 
devices will likely promote 
additional integration of the 
device with tissues and biological matter in the GI tract, according to their paper. Other 
applications of their edible pill 
may include monitoring the 
tissue of the GI tract, and even 
electrical stimulation of these 
tissues for treatment of digestion disorders.
Courtesy of Christopher Bettinger
Assistant professor of materials science and engineering and biomedical engineering Christopher Bettinger and professor of materials science and 
engineering Jay Whitacre have developed an edible battery device, outlined above, to power robotic biosensors in the human gastrointestinal tract.
Hookah smoke has carcinogens and carbon monoxide
Despite the common misconception that smoking hookah is safe, researchers analyzing regular hookah smokers 
have identi?ed that using 
a hookah three times a day 
exposes one to more carbon 
monoxide and the carcinogen 
benzene than smoking a halfpack of cigarettes. The study 
asked 13 healthy volunteers 
who smoked both cigarettes 
and hookah to only smoke 
hookah for four days. After 
a week, the volunteers were 
asked to smoke only cigarettes for a week. On average, 
the volunteers smoked hookah three times a day and had 
eleven cigarettes per day. 
The researchers took urine 
samples and determined that 
the amount of benzene, which 
is linked to leukemia and lung 
cancer, was higher when the 
users smoked hookah instead 
of cigarettes. Breath tests also 
indicated that volunteers 
smoking only hookah had 
2.5 times the amount of carbon monoxide in their breath 
than when only smoking cigarettes.
Source: Science News  
Studies show monkeys conform to social norms
Researchers at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland 
recently noticed a pattern of 
?ckleness in male monkeys 
when they emulate the behavior of other monkeys. The 
researchers observed the behavior of wild vervet monkeys 
in South Africa and found 
that adult males migrating 
into the group quickly caught 
on to the social norms of the 
group.
They tested social conformity by giving some groups of 
monkeys blue and pink corn. 
In some groups, the blue corn 
was meant to taste repulsive; 
in others, the pink corn was. 
After some time, monkeys in 
each group only ate the colored corn that was initially 
considered good even when 
researchers presented both 
colors that tasted the same. 
When male monkeys moved 
to a group that ate a different 
color, however, the researchers noticed that the males 
would eat the same colored 
corn as its new group despite 
its previous experiences with 
that color.
Source: Science Daily
Large HIV vaccine 
trial study halted 
after poor results
Scientists are currently 
halting the largest study of an 
HIV vaccine, stating that there 
is no way the study would 
show that the vaccine can 
prevent HIV. The $77 million 
study, which involved over 
2,500 subjects, met its goal 
for participants a few months 
ago. The study had shown 
that 41 percent of those who 
received the vaccine contracted HIV, compared to 30 
percent that received placebo 
shots. While these statistics 
do not prove the vaccine actually increased the risk of contracting HIV, researchers also 
determined the vaccine failed 
to help. The participants will 
no longer receive any shots, 
although they will continue 
to be monitored for the next 
?ve years, in hopes that the 
study will still glean helpful 
information regarding a vaccine for HIV.
This study, which used a 
weakened cold virus called 
ade5 to transport HIV genes 
for the vaccine, may halt other HIV research using similar 
biological methods.
Source: NPR
SCITECH BRIEFS
Einsteins theory of relativity passes toughest test yet
Einsteins theory of relativity, which is in opposition to 
the quantum theory of physics, recently passed its toughest test yet. Scientists have 
been tracking a celestial system containing a neutron star 
two times the mass of the sun 
and a white dwarf star. They 
orbit each other every hour 
and a half. Astronomers observations of the system have 
remained consistent with the 
theory of relativity.
The astronomers believed 
that the system, which exhibited extreme characteristics, 
would not emit gravitational 
radiation predicted by Einsteins theory. However, the 
scientists were able to observe 
the gravitational radiation by 
measuring the time of arrival 
of radio waves sent from the 
neutron star over a long period of time.
Source: NewScientist
Federal authorities plan to no longer protect gray wolves
Federal authorities from 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service plan to drop the gray 
wolf from the endangered 
list in the lower 48 states, 
after 18 years of protection. 
The species, which had been 
hunted almost to extinction 
in the West and has since rebounded, is now a nuisance 
for many ranchers and farmers in the western United 
States. Some have continually 
lobbied to remove the wolves 
from the endangered list.
The protection of the gray 
wolves will now be left to the 
individual states. California, 
in particular, is considering 
imposing its own protections. 
Although the federal authorities believe that de-listing the 
wolves is a success, many conservationists and scientists 
are skeptical and frustrated 
about the decision.
Source: Los Angeles Times
Scientists discover incredibly small fairy?y insect 
Two scientists have recently discovered a minuscule 
wasp that is only two times 
longer than the width of a human hair. The wasp, named  
Tinkerbella nana after the Peter Pan character, is a fairy?y, 
a type of wasp found across 
the world that is typically 
parasitic. The paper written 
by the two scientists theorize 
just how small an insect can 
get. The authors state that 
a winged insect cannot get 
smaller than 150 microns in 
order to ?y, which is only 100 
microns smaller than Tinkerbella.
Despite its incredibly small 
size, there have been two 
insects already discovered 
smaller than Tinkerbella.
Source: Christian Science 
Monitor
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZERMichael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 29, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Last Mondays article Joint 
Funding Committees budget remarks out of line questions the 
professionalism of the JFC in an 
unacceptable manner. In addition 
to drawing inaccurate conclusions, 
the article fails to recognize the increased transparency of the budget 
process.
The JFC makes decisions by 
considering how best to maximize 
every student activities fee(SAF) 
dollar to improve student life. Our 
comments on budgets are both justi?ed and in line with our mission: 
questioning why previously granted 
repair expenditures continue to be 
requested, stating resource constraints, and noting lack of clarity 
in ?scal behavior are all necessary 
for responsible allocations. We also 
include our metrics for travel and 
food, giving organizations insight 
into our decisions.
AB Concerts budget increase 
is another point of contention. As 
Carnegie Mellons best-known tradition, Carnival impacts every student. 
Largely funded through Spring Carnival Committee, Carnival would 
not exist without JFC funding. The 
Carnival concert has an inherently 
large impact proportional to its cost, 
and as such, the budget increase for 
this event complies with the JFCs 
mission.
The ?nal point was that there 
was favorable treatment of certain 
organizations. It is absurd and inaccurate to state that any exceptions 
made were unprofessional. AB Tech 
received money for food  as did 
Spring Carnival Committee  because they are organizations that 
enable other organizations to successfully operate. We fund their 
meals out of the recognition that not 
to do so would lead to decreased effectiveness and ef?ciency for the organizations they assist.
Consistently, The Tartan has 
chosen to focus on a so-called lack of 
transparency rather than the changes made to improve transparency. 
Throughout the budget process, the 
Student Body Vice President for Finance has made himself available 
through of?ce hours and information sessions while JFC representatives have repeatedly met with their 
groups. During budget review, the 
JFC focuses on past budgets, ?scal 
audits, and actual spending, so as to 
carefully consider every line item.
Ultimately, the JFC wants to fund 
student organizations so that they 
can ful?ll their mission, while maximizing the impact of every dollar we 
allocate. Ideological disagreements 
regarding our decisions are appreciated  accusations of favoritism 
and unprofessionalism are not.
Divya Krishnan and Niharika Ray
JFC Representatives
JFC responds to editorial about budget remarks
Presidents cabinet searching for applicants
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Daniel Tkacik, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Francesca Begos, Matt Brown, 
Nivedita Chopra, Ellie Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, 
Jordyn Greenberg,  Chris Han, Satvika Neti, 
Joey Peiser, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley
LAYOUT
Karthik Nagalingam
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVE
Hello Tartans,
One part of Carnegie Mellons 
Student Government has been a 
Presidents cabinet. This cabinet 
works with the President and Vice 
President to help make different 
initiatives come to fruition during the school year. This year, our 
cabinet will be split into two different branches. The branches and the 
descriptions of their roles are listed 
below. 
A Chief of Staff will also be selected to oversee and connect these two 
branches. Members of the cabinet 
should expect to spend 24 hours a 
week on cabinet-oriented work, of 
which one of these hours will be a 
weekly meeting.
We hope to have a cabinet full of 
Carnegie Mellon students who are 
passionate and excited about making a difference for students on our 
campus. Heres a basic description 
of what were looking for:
Cabinet Task Force
The ?rst of these branches is a 
Task Force that will act as the core 
group of cabinet representatives 
who work to make sure events run 
smoothly and board initiatives are 
achieved. The following are the positions that will be available:
Application Engineers will work 
to make sure that any technology 
that is presented by Student Government is working properly, while 
Public Relations will work to advertise all Student Government sponsored events.
Events and Logistics works with 
the rest of the task force to make 
plans for different events and programs, and Campus Coordinator 
will work as a connection between 
students and the administration 
to relay important campus trends. 
Meanwhile, Community Coordinator will work with students on 
campus and the greater Pittsburgh 
community to form meaningful 
connections. Constitutional Adviser 
will work to make sure that all Student Government practices are in 
line with the current constitution 
and will be prepared to work on any 
needed bylaw changes.
Cabinet Advisers
The second branch will be known 
as the Advisers who will serve as 
representatives for different large 
student groups on campus. These 
advisers will choose their own speci?c initiatives to work and focus 
on. These initiatives should relate to 
the passions of the representatives 
and the groups of students that they 
represent. The following adviser 
positions will be available: Greek 
advisers, ?rst-year advisers, graduate student advisers, residential life 
advisers, and athletics advisers.
Have an idea for a position 
that we havent listed? Let us 
know! Fill out your application at 
tinyurl.com/cmucabinet.
Peter Batman Masters
batman@cmu.edu
Student Body Vice President-elect
At the close of every school year, The 
Tartan reassesses the years events. We 
present here a list of the people and 
happenings that are worthy of recognition. Thistles go to people and 
events that had a positive effect on the 
campus community and the world at 
large. Thorns go to those that have 
negatively impacted the community.
A thistle to departing University President Jared Cohon, for 
his 16 years of unfailing and loyal 
service to Carnegie Mellon. We at 
The Tartan wish him a happy retirement.
A thorn for the recent outbreaks of mass violence. Shootings and other tragedies across the 
nation, including those in Boston, 
Mass.; Aurora, Co.; and Newtown, 
Conn. have taken innocent lives and 
disrupted the daily peace that the average citizen should be afforded.
A thistle to Randall Munroe 
and his webcomic xkcd, which 
recognized that Carnegie Mellon has 
the best hash bashers as part of a 
competitive April Fools update.
A thorn for the U.S. Senates 
inability to pass even the most 
mild of gun control measures in the 
form of background checks, displaying more loyalty to gun lobbyists 
than to the safety of Americans.
A thistle to the Presidential 
Search Committee for ?nding 
Carnegie Mellons next university 
president, Subra Suresh. Suresh is  
an excellent scientist and administrator, and he will bene?t the university greatly.
A thorn for Beta Theta Pi for being at the center of allegations 
involving the recording and sharing 
of sexually explicit recordings. Although the allegations have not yet 
been detailed or con?rmed, the fact 
that both the national fraternity and 
the university have suspended the 
Carnegie Mellon chapter indicate 
that there is evidence of serious issues within the fraternity.
A thistle to both the residents 
of Boston and the Boston Police 
Department for their steadfastness 
and courage in the face of the recent 
Boston Marathon bombings.
A thorn for the administration 
for not updating the campus 
on the Beta Theta Pi allegations. The 
student body deserves to be kept 
up to date on matters regarding the 
safety of the campus community.
A thistle to the current Student 
Body President Will Weiner and 
Vice President Meela Dudley. Weiner 
and Dudley succeeded in engaging 
the student body with their initiatives during their time in of?ce, including their initiative to register 
voters during the 2012 presidential 
election and watch student election 
debates. Their Town Hall initiatives 
on campus issues were a landmark 
for communication between students and faculty.
A thorn for a 3 percent tuition 
increase for returning students 
and a 4 percent increase for incoming students for the 201314 academic year. Carnegie Mellon is an 
expensive school even without these 
increases.
A thistle to Carnegie Mellon for 
founding the new Scott Institute, devoted to environmental and 
sustainable improvements of energy 
use. This new center aims to bring 
together interdisciplinary collaborators to tackle world energy and environmental problems.
A thorn to Apple and Samsung 
for their continuing patent 
wars. Both companies are innovators 
in the technological marketplace. 
They must focus on innovation and 
the satisfaction of their customers, 
rather than on lawsuits over various 
technologies they have both used in 
their products.
A thistle to Student Affairs 
and student government for 
addressing Carnegie Mellons stress 
culture, student health, and wellbeing, as well as hosting Town Halls 
to discuss these issues.
A thorn for the Hamerschlag 
House residents that painted 
the message McGill, I could use a 
sandwich... on the Fence. This message was written in poor taste and 
exuded sexism toward the women of 
McGill House.
A thistle to student government for increasing their visibility, particularly Student Senate 
for actively engaging its constituency 
through last semesters Senate Week.
A thorn for the public parking meters on streets within 
Carnegie Mellons campus boundaries. These meters make parking expensive for students who once used 
these spaces to park cheaply while 
living on campus.
A thistle to HERB and his creators for successfully separating the cookie and cream of an Oreo 
 a dif?cult task for a robot  and 
bringing us one step closer to having 
robotic butlers.
A thorn to the Spring Carnival Committee for removing 
Midway Market this year. Midway 
Market was a valuable resources for 
smaller organizations to reach out to 
people enjoying Carnival and to connect with others in the Carnegie Mellon community.
A thistle to AB Concerts for 
quickly ?nding a replacement 
act for Spring Carnival after Ludacris unexpectedly cancelled. Their 
ability to ?nd a good replacement  
Lupe Fiasco  in under 48 hours is 
commendable. Lupe Fiascos performance was a high point of this years 
Carnival festivities.
A thorn to Pennsylvanias Voter 
ID law, which would have disenfranchised many people during a 
presidential election were it not for 
the order of a judge that delayed its 
enactment by a year.
A thistle for recent legislation 
and hearings regarding gay 
marriage and marijuana across the 
nation. Legislation concerning marijuana included legalization in Colorado and Washington. The Supreme 
Court heard cases regarding DOMA 
and Californias Proposition 8. These 
issues revolve around personal decisions, and legislation should be 
passed to re?ect this freedom.
A thorn to cyclist Lance Armstrong, a man who was once a 
star athlete who fell from grace after 
facing doping charges by the United 
States Anti-Doping Agency.
A thistle to AB Films for using 
the Bat Signal to announce the 
arrival of Batman ?lms in McConomy Auditorium as an exciting interlude from studying.
A thorn to Innocence of Muslims, the YouTube video whose 
terrible production and acting was 
surpassed by how deeply offensive 
it was to Muslims worldwide, culminating in mass protests.
A thistle for the Tartan sports 
teams that had impressive records and accomplishments this 
year. The football team ended the 
season with a winning record of 
64 while the club roller hockey 
team had a record of 140. The 
womens tennis team placed second 
in the UAA Championship Conference while both the Frisbee and golf 
teams excelled in their division. The 
womens soccer team ranked sixth in 
the nation and entered the Elite 8 of 
the NCAA Championship while the 
mens team ranked 14.
A thorn to the playlist at the 
Carnegie Mellon Caf for playing the same limited list of songs on 
loop throughout the year, and particularly for the inclusion of Taylor 
Swifts latest singles.
A thistle for Housing and Dining Services for providing students on campus with stellar new 
dining options, such as Worlds of 
Flavor and The Pomegranate, which 
offers kosher options. The extended 
hours at Entropy+ are also appreciated by students on campus working 
late into the night.
A thorn to Pittsburgh mayor 
Luke Ravenstahl for allegations 
of using city funds for personal reasons and possibly knowing about 
misappropriation of funds by the 
Pittsburgh Police Bureaus Special 
Events and Finance of?ces.
THISTLES & THORNS
The JFC makes 
decisions by 
considering how 
best to maximize 
every SAF dollar.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 29, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
The Tartan is battening down the hatches for ?nals. So we asked,
How will you prepare for ?nals?
Ben Cosio
MechE
Junior
Just trying to start earlier.
Madeline Mikkelson
Costume Design
Junior
Sitting outside soaking up the 
sun.
Daniel Mock
Business Administration
Sophomore
I will be trying to optimize performance by sleeping earlier and 
eating healthier.
Alyssa Danesh
ECE
Junior
I have clearned out my entire 
house so Ill have a nice relaxing 
space to study.
Cole Vandross
MechE
Senior
When I do start studying, Ill be 
partying in Hunt.
Compiled by Justin McGown
SATVIKA NETI
Its almost funny now  how 
quickly the media and the American 
public suspect people of different 
colors of committing heinous crimes, 
rather than people of their own race. 
Its as if every time a terrorist act 
like the Boston bombings occurs, 
people forget the anthrax scare, the 
Westboro Baptist Church, and even 
the Ku Klux Klan  all acts of terror 
committed by someone not of color. 
All certain people can see anymore 
are suicide bombers, the planes that 
crashed into the Twin Towers on 
September 11, 2001, and that these 
incidents were caused by people of a 
different race or nationality.
This racial pro?ling needs to stop. 
The public targets and harasses people they suspect to have committed a 
crime because of their skin color.
Racial pro?ling is not helpful even 
if the public does catch the criminal  it is harmful no matter what. 
People have argued that racial pro?ling is okay because the net effect is 
the safety of the American people  
who cares if one person gets hurt to 
ensure millions of lives? The ?aw in 
this kind of thinking is that the public is still only targeting people who 
are not white. If a white person was 
speci?cally targeted to ensure the 
lives of millions, people would be up 
in arms about individual privacy.
A Saudi Arabian man at the Boston marathon was tackled to the 
ground by bystanders because he 
had been standing too close to where 
the bomb went off. He had nothing 
to do with the bombing, but was targeted anyway, just for looking Arabian and being close to the bomb. 
He was the only victim admitted to 
the hospital that had his apartment 
searched while he was detained 
at the hospital. Even when he was 
cleared of any suspicion, the death 
threats and hate mail continued to 
come. The same thing happened to 
a Muslim student  Sulahaddin Barhoum  who was trying to become 
an Olympic athlete and was targeted 
for the Boston bombings. He will 
now forever live under that shadow.
Ironically, the real suspect in custody is Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a young, 
white, Eastern European man.
The worst part about all of this 
is that people feel entitled to assume skin color or race about the 
suspect because of what theyve 
been through with 9/11. They feel 
nothing of accusing darker-skinned 
people of committing these atrocious 
crimes because others like them have 
done it before, even though the public shies away from assuming the 
same thing about white people.
John Green, author of Looking for 
Alaska, said it best via Twitter after 
the Boston bombings: The people of 
Boston dont need amateur speculation. They need blood donations.
The media also perpetuates racial 
pro?ling. Black people who commit 
crimes are immediately labeled as 
criminals, Muslims who commit 
crimes are immediately labeled as 
terrorists, but white people who 
commit crimes are misunderstood 
or psychologically unstable. For the 
case of Tsarnaev, the media made it a 
point that terrorism wasnt talked 
about in their home. That wouldn't 
have mattered at all if he hadn't been 
white. White criminals are always 
portrayed to be more than their 
crime  white people are seen as 
people by the media even when they 
are criminals. People of color are debased into just their crimes  they 
are nothing more than what they do.
In essence, a criminal who is of 
color is seen as a representation of 
that entire race. A white criminal is 
seen as an exception, an anomaly.
The media is also incredibly invested in keeping a division between 
domestic and international terrorism, though most stations are willing to concede that it is terrorism, no 
matter who is committing the act of 
terror. Terrorism is terrorism, even if 
it occurs domestically.
Not all Muslims are terrorists, and 
not all Christians are with the Westboro Baptist Church. People have to 
be judged not by race or nationality, 
but by their actions and character.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
JUSTIN MCGOWN
The Boy Scouts of America 
(BSA), after delaying their decision 
regarding a change to policies banning gay members, has announced a 
new and baf?ing stance: You can be 
gay and a member of the Boy Scouts 
as long as you are under the age of 
18. This stance means that, if gay, 
you can achieve scoutings highest 
honor, the rank of Eagle Scout, but 
you are banned from becoming an 
adult leader to pass on the valuable 
skills, insights, and knowledge you 
have acquired as a scout. This decision is an indication that the BSA 
is in the pocket of religious institutions, including those of the Mormons, Catholics, and Methodists, 
who sponsor almost half of members 
nationwide, according to the BSA. 
It seems as if the BSA would rather 
remain there than take a stand for a 
semblance of fairness.
Clearly, this is an unsatisfactory 
solution, particularly for proponents 
of integrating members of the LGBT 
community into the Boy Scouts. It 
bars gay adults from participation 
completely, which serves no conceivable purpose for the BSA and 
most likely still prevents them from 
regaining much of the corporate 
sponsorship they have recently lost, 
such as Intel. The only logic that I 
can fathom that would lead to this 
conclusion is the preposterous belief that gay adults are pedophiles 
 that or they fear the nightmare 
scenario of adults with diverse backgrounds indoctrinating children 
with the poisonous, insidious concepts of tolerance and acceptance 
that have done so much to undermine our society.
The Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-Day Saints has come out in favor of the proposed plan, saying that 
they support the decision to allow 
gay youth membership. The BSA is 
likely pleased that they can count on 
keeping one of their main sources 
of funding and members; they may 
think that this nonsensical discrimination is in keeping with the morally straight tenant of the Scout 
Law. They have somehow managed 
to con?ate the word straight in the 
sense of sexuality with not being a 
dishonest person and, in doing so, 
managed to toss the original meaning completely out the window.
Once again it is clear that keeping Mormon approval is more important to the BSA than the wellbeing of youth or a sense of fairness 
and decency. But this move doesnt 
make much sense in the context of 
Mormonism either, since Mormons 
allow members to be homosexual, 
so long as they dont actually do 
anything homosexual. If an organization  one that has prominent adherents like sci-? author Orson Scott 
Card actively ?ghting against gay 
marriage  can trust adults to deny 
themselves any sexual activity, why 
in the world can they not be trusted 
with leadership of youths?
Allowing gay youths to join 
scouting is a step in the right direction, and I am glad to know that the 
organization has some sense when it 
comes to considering the children. 
When I previously wrote about this 
issue last October, I mentioned what 
a positive experience scouting was 
for me and my psychological health. 
I argued that it is not only negligent 
but also malicious to bar children 
with a far greater risk of bullying 
and suicide. 
To be fair, I should be glad that 
the BSA has stopped being directly 
harmful to a large portion of Americas population and is now only 
cruelly discriminatory to people in a 
way that is to its own detriment. But 
Im not; this feels like a peace treaty 
that shouldnt be signed. I call upon 
all fellow scouts to continue decrying and protesting this unjust and 
illogical stance.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is online editor for The Tartan.
KYLE HENSON
Anyone who has watched writer 
David Simons HBO television series 
The Wire is familiar with the term 
Hamsterdam. Hamsterdam refers 
to a section of Baltimore where the 
sale and consumption of drugs are 
legal on the show.
Hamsterdam came about because 
the drug trade on mainstream street 
corners became too disruptive to 
everyday citizens. People were murdered and taxpayers moved out of 
the city to the neighboring county to 
avoid violence and drug culture. As 
a result, a rogue cop created Hamsterdam, comprised of empty row 
houses where the drug trade is legal 
and regulated for violence.
Hamsterdam was incredibly successful. Street corners were peaceful. Crime decreased by 14 percent in 
the district. Groups that distributed 
clean needles and condoms set up in 
Hamsterdam and reached people in 
the shadowy underworld of the drug 
trade that were once unreachable. 
Narcotics Anonymous set up in Hamsterdam and saw an in?ux of members looking to stop drug use. Cops 
even started charging all mid-level 
dealers a tax in order to continue operating in Hamsterdam. They used 
this tax to buy a basketball hoop for 
the kids of Hamsterdam who were 
no longer needed to help dealers 
complete illegal deals. 
Obviously this is a TV show, and it 
may not re?ect what would happen 
if drugs were legalized, but it forces 
one to consider if drug prohibition 
does more harm than good.
One example that legalization 
advocates like to point out is that 
both President Obama and former 
President George W. Bush used illegal drugs. Obama wrote about using 
cocaine and smoking weed in his autobiography, and Bush was allegedly 
arrested for cocaine possession in 
1972 but had his father pull strings 
to get the arrest expunged from records. Both men went on to become 
President. If either were caught and 
jailed, their lives would have radically changed. Additionally, Steve Jobs 
said that his experimentation with 
LSD was one of the two or three 
most important things hed ever 
done, according to Time magazine.
I hate to think about what other 
potential-?lled, otherwise law-abiding citizens drug prohibition has 
barred from contributing to society. 
Institutionalization should be reserved for those who will negatively 
affect society if left free. Drug users 
are not a threat to society. Overcrowded jails, clogged justice systems, and dead law enforcement of?cials are not appropriate sacri?ces 
to prevent people from getting high.
Additionally, according to a study 
by California State University Bakers?eld, the size of the undocumented, 
untaxed black market for drugs in 
the U.S. is $475 billion. Thats 3 percent of our countrys gross domestic 
product (GDP). Economists should 
be going crazy for legalization. A 3 
percent GDP bump would bring in 
a lot of revenue, especially because 
drugs would be subject to additional 
excise taxes like alcohol and tobacco.
Currently, drug legalization in 
the U.S. is incredibly unbalanced. Alcohol and tobacco attain legal status 
while drugs that, according to The 
Economist, are less addictive and 
harmful  like ecstasy, marijuana, 
LSD, and shrooms  are illegal. If 
alcohol and tobacco are legal, there 
is no legitimate justi?cation for these 
less harmful drugs to be illegal.
Finally, its quite possible that the 
positive effects of drug legalization 
outlined in The Wire, could happen. 
We could document and discourage 
drug use. Safe practices could be 
promoted and people could discover 
a way out of drug culture. Also, with 
drugs out in the open, the Food and 
Drug Administration could regulate drugs for safety and make sure 
people looking for heroin dont get 
rat poison. There are a lot of really 
good potential effects to smart drug 
legalization.
Realistically, drugs wont be legal 
anytime soon, and blanket legalization of all drugs everywhere would 
have very immediate, very harmful 
consequences. What the government 
can do in the meantime is to eliminate all federal laws restricting drug 
possession. Many states already have 
laws making these drugs illegal, so 
nothing would immediately change.
Over time, states and cities looking to experiment with new ways to 
deal with drugs could try different 
policies. If they worked, other states 
would follow suit. Washington and 
Colorado recently legalized marijuana, but those laws technically 
mean nothing because its still federally illegal to possess, use, or sell 
marijuana anywhere in the country. 
These contradictory laws should not 
prevent states from experimenting 
with legitimate ways to ?nd peace in 
the war on drugs.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Racial pro?ling must be put to an end
We should experiment with drug laws
BSA stuck in the pocket of religious benefactors
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 29, 2013
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
The 16th-ranked Carnegie 
Mellon mens tennis team suffered a tough 63 loss against 
Case Western Reserve University on Sunday morning to 
take fourth place in the UAA 
Conference Championships. 
This makes the Tartans record 137 for the season.
Weve had some tough 
losses to deal with this weekend, but theyve been against 
good teams and were looking 
ahead now, ?rst-year Yuvraj 
Kumar said.
The team received points 
in the match against Case 
Western from the doubles win 
by sophomore Bryce Beisswanger and Kumar, along 
with a win by senior Duke 
Miller at No. 3 singles and a 
No. 6 singles victory by senior 
Jooho Yu.
Although the Tartans led 
43, the match point came 
down to the No. 1 and No. 2 
singles games, both of which 
were heart-wrenching tiebreakers. Both sophomore 
Christian Heaney-Secord and 
Kumar won their ?rst sets but 
fell in the last two sets.
Yesterdays loss was especially tough after a 54 loss to 
No. 3 Emory University Eagles 
just the day before. Yu and 
sophomore Thomas Cooper 
tied the match at 11 with an 
8-5 win at No. 2 doubles before Beisswanger and Kumar 
came from behind to win 97 
at No. 3 doubles.
Holding a 21 lead, the 
Tartans fell in singles matches at No. 4 and No. 3 to lose 
the lead before ?rst-year Abhishek Alla won 6-2, 62 at 
No. 2 singles. This tied the 
overall score at 33.
After Allas win, the Eagles 
regained the lead with a win 
at No. 5 singles and secured 
the win with a victory at No. 
6 singles.
We are still trying to come 
together as a team, HeaneySecord said. We are close to 
having a breakthrough but 
havent gotten one yet. We 
played Emory really tough 
though.
The Tartans losses were 
preceded by a victory Friday 
against the University of Chicago. Carnegie Mellon began 
the match sweeping doubles 
play before taking a 40 lead 
as Alla won 61, 62 at No. 2 
singles.
Allas victory was followed 
by a win by Heaney-Secord, 
who sealed the Tartans victory by winning a three-set 
match, coming back to win in 
62, 61 after dropping the 
?rst set 57.
Carnegie Mellon then 
sealed the win at No. 3 and 
No. 4 singles. Miller won in 
with 60, 46, 64 at No. 3 
while Kumar won 75, 63 at 
No. 4.
Overall, the team remains 
positive and looks forward 
to future matches and new 
opportunities to improve its 
record.
We had a good win 
against Chicago, which really 
boosted our con?dence into 
Emory, Kumar said. I think 
were just getting better with 
every match and if we make 
NCAA regionals were going 
to come out ?ring.
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
The Tartans took second 
place in the UAA Conference 
Championships for the ?rst 
time since 2009 in womens 
tennis this weekend, sealing 
an overall record of 127.
The womens tennis team 
began their championship 
run with a 9-0 victory over 
the University of Rochester on 
Thursday morning, marking 
head coach Andrew Girards 
300th career victory.
The Tartans started the 
match with three wins in 
doubles action as junior Katie Cecil and sophomore Angela Pratt won 83 at No. 1 
doubles, sophomore Bryn 
Raschke and ?rst-year Brooke 
Tsu won 81 at No. 2 doubles, 
and senior Alex Tapak and 
sophomore Lydia Utkin won 
81 at No. 3 doubles.
Cecil won her No. 1 singles 
match, followed by a No. 6 
victory by Raschke. First-year 
Elizabeth Martin and Tsu 
each turned in wins at No. 3 
singles and No. 4 singles, respectively.
The ?nal two singles victories came from Pratt at No. 
2 singles and ?rst-year Abbey 
Hamstra at No. 5 singles.
On Friday afternoon, the 
team beat the No. 10 Washington University in St. Louis 
to advance to the semi?nal 
round of the UAA Championship Tournament. After falling behind 10 in doubles 
play, the No. 1 pair of Cecil 
and Pratt came back at 84 to 
tie the match at 11. Raschke 
and Tsu came back from a 
score of 0-3 to win their second match of the tournament 
and give the Tartans a 21 
lead with an 84 victory.
The best part of the weekend was having that great 
doubles and team wins to get 
revenge against Wash. U, Raschke said.
Following Tsus tough loss 
at No. 4 singles, Cecil won the 
Tartans back the lead at 32 
with a 62, 63 win at No. 1 
singles.
Martin was next up in 
singles play when she won 
74, 61 at No. 3 singles for 
her second win of the tournament. With only one more 
point needed for the team victory, Pratt led with a three-set 
come back win No. 2 singles. 
Pratt overcame a 60 de?cit 
after the ?rst set to win 64 
and 75 for the ?fth and deciding match point.
The ?nal point for the 
Tartans in Fridays match 
was won by Raschke at No. 6 
singles.
Unfortunately, the team 
was unable to carry the momentum from Friday into Saturdays championship game. 
The Tartans lost 90 to the 
No. 3-ranked Emory University Eagles. Although there 
were ?rst-set wins in singles 
play from Martin and Hamstra, both lost in the third set 
by their opponents.
The Tartans now look forward to playing in the NCAA 
Regional Tournament on May 
10. We fought hard in our 
matches and cheered for each 
other among courts, Raschke 
said. We look forward to 
NCAAs.
Hamstra said, This weekend was really important for 
us as we approach NCAAs, 
and our second-place ?nish 
and win over Emory really 
showed what we can do when 
we work as a team.
I would like to see us 
carry the team unity we had 
this weekend into Regionals 
and come out with a win, she 
added.
Editors Note: Elizabeth Martin 
and Alex Tapak are staffwriters 
for The Tartan.
Women take second placeMen place fourth, ?nish 137Tennis travels to UAA Conference Championships
File Photo by Jonathan Leung
Sophomore Christian Heaney-Secord beat Eric Halpern from Emory University in the No. 1 singles match on 
Saturday, but lost to Christopher Krimbill from Case Western Reserve University on Sunday.
File Photo by Jonathan Leung
Sophomore Thomas Cooper and senior Jooho Yu beat Emory University at No. 2 doubles on Saturday.
File Photos by Jonathan Leung
The womens tennis team will next play in the NCAA Regional Tournament on May 10.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The NFL Draft  and the 
TV spectacle that it has become in recent years  ended 
this weekend. The Steelers 
came into the draft aimed at 
getting younger members on 
their offensive line and the 
entirety of their defense. The 
Steelers also had to replenish 
some of the depth at their skill 
positions like quarterback, 
running back, and wide receiver, after losing players to 
both free agency and age.
The Steelers ?rst-round 
pick, the 17th overall, was 
Jarvis Jones, an outside linebacker from the University of 
Georgia. Jones does not have 
the prototypical physical attributes desired in a standard 
34 outside linebacker, but 
more than makes up for it 
with his speed, strength, and 
quick play recognition. He 
was drafted to replace all-pro 
linebacker James Harrision, 
who was cut as the Steelers 
desperately tried to get under 
the salary cap this offseason.
Picking Jones is not without risk, though, since he 
comes with a shaky injury 
past. Jones started his career 
with University of Southern California, but was not 
cleared to return to play after 
suffering a neck injury during his ?rst year, prompting 
the transfer to Georgia. Jones 
also lacks some of the passrushing technique needed 
to exceed at the professional 
level, often quitting on a rush 
if it is not initially successful.
In the second round, the 
Steelers took LeVeon Bell, a 
running back from Michigan 
State University. Bell was taken in an attempt to add some 
stability to a back?eld that 
shuf?ed through Rashard 
Mendenhall, Issac Redman, 
and Jonathan Dwyer due to 
injury and performance issues. Only Dwyer is still with 
the team, so Bell will bring 
some much-needed depth. 
Bell is a strong running back 
who ?ts the traditional Pittsburgh ground-and-pound offensive style, while also bringing the pass-catching ability 
to work in the modern passoriented league.
Markus Wheaton, a wide 
receiver from Oregon State 
University, was worthy of the 
Steelers third-round selection. Wheaton has the measurables to be a starting receiver in the NFL, but doesnt 
always play like it. Wheaton 
has great speed, but can be a 
little iffy on his route running, 
neutralizing most of that advantage. He is stepping into 
big shoes, as Wheaton was 
drafted to help replace receiver Mike Wallace, who left 
for the Miami Dolphins in the 
offseason.
With the ?rst of their two 
fourth-round picks, the Steelers selected all-pro safety Troy 
Polamalus eventual replacement in Syracuse University 
safety Shamarko Thomas. 
Thomas is a physically punishing safety, very similar to 
Polamalu, but does not yet 
have the instincts and vision 
that made Polamalu great. 
Thankfully, Thomas will have 
a year or two to spend backing up Polamalu to learn from 
one of the best.
The second fourth-round 
pick was used on quarterback 
Ben Roethlisbergers new 
backup, quarterback Landry 
Jones from the University of 
Oklahoma. Jones was picked 
to avoid having the aging 
Charlie Batch ?ll in for Roethlisberger for the fourth 
straight year. Jones can make 
and throw in the book, but he 
is slow in his release, which 
gives defenders a chance to 
close whatever hole he was 
trying to throw into. Jones 
was part of a quarterback 
class that was largely unimpressive compared to last 
years and took a slide in the 
draft as a result.
The Steelers addressed 
their age at cornerback in the 
?fth round by selecting Terry 
Hawthorne out of the University of Illinois at  UrbanaChampaign. Hawthorne is 
a tall, long corner with the 
speed and the physical attributes to be a great player. His 
on-?eld performance has not 
lived up to this physical prowess, though, and his ?eld vision and instincts leave much 
to be desired. Hawthorne can 
be frustratingly inconsistent, 
showing ?ashes of greatness 
followed by stretches of being 
out of position and making 
bonehead plays.
The Steelers rounded out 
their draft with sixth-round 
picks, Justin Brown, a wide 
receiver from Oklahoma, and 
Vince Williams, a linebacker 
from Florida State University, 
plus a seventh-round pick, 
Nicholas Williams, a defensive tackle out of Samford 
University.
Overall, this was a good 
draft for the Steelers  it 
?rmed out the teams foundation that will hopefully allow 
them to outperform their 88 
record from last year. They 
?lled in many of the depth issues on offense and found current and future replacements 
for the aging defense. The 
further development of last 
years top two picks, guard 
David DeCastro and tackle 
Mike Adams, should aid in 
the transition of the Steelers 
from an aging veteran team to 
a youthful, experienced one.
COMMENTARYSteelers draft picks add youth
The Steelers 
came into the 
draft aimed at 
getting younger 
members.
Ultimate team ties for ?fth 
Courtesy of Canute Haroldson
Carnegie Mellons Ultimate team, Mr. Yuk, traveled to the USA Ultimate Ohio Valley Division-I College Regionals this weekend and ended up tying for ?fth.
an early lead and never relinquishing it. Mr. Yuk then 
focused on Millersville University, whom it beat 137. 
Mr. Yuk ended up losing the 
last game of group play with 
a score of 1112 against the 
University of Cincinnati. The 
teams were evenly matched, 
but the Tartans could not pull 
ahead before the time ran out. 
It was a position Mr. Yuk has 
been in many times; Koorapati said the team played in a 
lot of close games all year.
For the last match on Saturday and all of Sunday, the 
tournaments format became 
a single-elimination bracket, 
with seeding decided by results on Saturday. Carnegie 
Mellons 21 record meant 
that the team had to win all of 
the single-elimination matches to advance to Nationals.
Mr. Yuk hit the ground 
running, winning the ?rst two 
matches of the single-elimination tournament against Shippensburg University (1412) 
and Kenyon College (1410). 
The team was playing well 
with high energy all weekend. The runs off the disc, the 
quick combination throws, 
and even the long bombs 
were ?nding their marks this 
weekend, Kane said.
When playing Pennsylvania State University, Carnegie 
Mellon brought that momentum with them and jumped 
out in front early, leading 
Penn State 86 at halftime; 
however, Carnegie Mellons 
lead shrank until the team 
ended up losing 1214. We 
played them close, and we 
were up at half-time; we 
just came up a little short, 
Koorapati said.
Kane said of this weekend, 
There was a ton of effort, but 
any shortcomings came down 
to lack of depth and not executing [in vital moments]. 
The loss ended the tournament and the season for Mr. 
Yuk.
Mr. Yuk was proud of its 
season; according to Koorapati, they went into the season 
wanting to be competitive 
against the best teams in the 
conference, and they met that 
goal. The team also had a 
strong season overall: Mr. Yuk 
went 248 all season and never lost more than two games 
in any one tournament. The 
team also improved upon 
particular aspects of its play: 
Kane explained, often [Mr. 
Yuk] would start ahead a lot, 
and in the past, prior teams 
would not hold on, but this 
team rallied and got better at 
?nishing those games off.
That level of stability is 
something that Kane is looking forward to building on 
while cultivating further new 
talent going into next year.
YUK, from A12
We wanted 
to be a strong 
contender... 
and we 
de?nitely were, 
regardless of 
the ?nal place 
result.
Nipunn Koorapati,
Team captain

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 29, 2013
File Photo by Alan Vangpat
KARTHIK NAGALINGAM
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens Ultimate team, Mr. 
Yuk, took part in the USA 
Ultimates Ohio Valley Division-I College Open Regionals this weekend. The 
team went 42 this tournament and ended up tied for 
?fth after being awarded 
the third seed at the onset 
of the tournament.
Head coach Aaron Kane 
said the team was disappointed with the overall 
result, having high expectations of ?nishing in the 
top two. The team took 
solace in the fact that the 
loss came against the best 
schools in the conference. 
Captain Nipunn Koorapati, 
a masters student in electrical and computer engineering, said, [We] wanted to 
be a strong contender in the 
region, and we de?nitely 
were, regardless of the ?nal 
place result.
Mr. Yuk had a busy 
weekend, with six matches 
over the course of Saturday 
and Sunday. On Saturday, 
the tournament featured 
a round robin format, in 
which teams were split into 
groups of four and played 
three matches against 
the other members in the 
group.
Carnegie Mellon faced 
Saint Josephs University 
and emerged with a 138 
victory after pulling out to 
Mr. Yukattends open
See YUK, A11
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Staffwriter
The mens and womens 
track and ?eld teams traveled 
to New York City last weekend 
to compete in the UAA Championships, hosted by New York 
University. The womens team 
?nished in sixth place of the 
seven teams in competition 
with 53 points, while the men 
claimed second with 177.
Throwers from both 
teams exhibited tremendous 
performances at the UAAs. 
Zachary Erra-Hernandez, 
a junior thrower who is 
?nishing off a season full of 
new personal records, won 
the discus event, throwing 
44.69 meters. First-year Paul 
Hamerski threw 52.36 meters 
in the javelin in a third-place 
performance, while junior 
Nathan Cheek and David 
Markowitz added fourthand 
sixth-place performances, 
respectively, in the javelin. 
Gino Pilato placed third in 
the discus with a 43.79-meter 
throw.
Junior distance runner 
Joshua Newby cited the 
throwers as one of the key 
components to the Tartans 
success at UAAs, saying, the 
throwers were clutch today.
On the womens throwing side, senior Sarah Menio 
threw the discus 32.73 meters 
for sixth place, and senior Carissa Iannone won eighth in 
the javelin with a performance 
of 28.61 meters.
The distance team excelled 
as well. Newby, who placed 
?rst in the steeplechase and 
fourth in the 5,000-meter run, 
said, everyone performed really well, elaborating, Billy 
Little?eld scored us a point in 
the 10k, and Marc-Daniel [Julien] scored for the 1500-meter.
Sophomore Tommy Vandenberg won the 800-meter 
with a season-best time of 
1:52.77, placing him as the 
14th-fastest 800-runner this 
season in Division III.
Senior Ben Nealy and 
?rst-year Marc-Daniel Julien 
each ?nished in ?fth place 
in the 400-meter dash and 
1,500-meter race, respectively. Newby said, the most 
exciting moment for the team 
was when Marc-Daniel Julien, 
a ?rst-year, improved by ?ve 
seconds in the 800 yesterday 
and a 10-second gain for a PR 
[personal record] today.
Julien said the UAAs was 
personally the best track 
meet of my year.
The womens distance 
team faced intense competition from teams including 
NYU and the University of Chicago, but still saw a 37:19.69 
second-place ?nish in the 
10,000-meter by senior Emily 
Wobb.
Sophomore Halley Bayer 
won eighth and junior Elise 
Hall claimed ninth in the 
5,000-meter, while senior 
Leila Bouabdellaoui received 
ninth in the 3,000-meter steeplechase.
We had a pretty good 
showing... maybe this year 
was more of a learning experience than anything else, 
Bayer said.
Sprinters and jumpers 
had a vital role for the team. 
Sophomore Mike McDermott 
won the high jump in a 1.98 
meter jump. Also winning was 
the 4x400-meter relay team 
of ?rst-year Doug OConnell, 
Julien, senior Noel Titus, and 
Vandenberg. Titus ?nished 
second in both the 100-meter 
and 200-meter competitions.
First-year Ben Neiman, 
competing after struggling 
with injuries for a portion of 
the season, placed third in the 
110-meter hurdles with a personal record of 15.72 seconds, 
and junior Mike Standish 
claimed third in the 400-meter hurdles with a season best 
of 56.72 seconds. First-year 
Brandon Hoane placed seventh in the triple jump.
From the women, Jacqueline Guevel swept away the 
competition in the hurdles, 
winning the 100-meter event 
in 14.43 seconds and the 
400-meter in 1:02.23. Her 
100-meter performance is 
ninth in the nation, while her 
400 is fourth; Guevel quali?ed 
for Nationals during UAAs due 
to her impressive times.
Sasha Spalding ?nished 
sixth in the 200, and Jenna 
Asperslag, who pulled her 
hamstring prior to the ?nal 
heat in the 100-meter dash, 
still walked through the ?nish line to give a point to her 
team.
The team overall did really well all around on the ?eld 
and on the track, Julien said. 
Both the mens and womens 
teams will travel to Allegheny 
Colleges Gator Invitational on 
May 10.
Track and ?eld teams ?nish UAAs on right foot
File Photo by Alan VangpatFile Photo by Alan Vangpat
Both mens and womens teams performed well in the track and ?eld events in the UAA Championships at New York University last weekend.

---------------------------------------------------

Best films of 201213 
Check out this list of the years top films 
for a college student audience   B6
04.29.13 Volume 107, Issue 26
Gallery Crawl

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
A riddle, a pie chart, and two original comics 
 what more could you ask for?
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents Students Choice weekend 
with Looper, Zero Dark Thirty, and Mulan.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jonathan Carreon
8
45710
regulars...
Advice
Veteran advice columnist Patrick Hoskins says 
goodbye to his readers.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Radiolab
Jad Abumrad explores the unexpected benefits 
of tension in his work as a radio co-host.
3
Romeo & Juliet
The School of Drama gives the Shakespeare 
classic a modern twist.
4
Culture show
One Night in Beijing captivates its audience 
with a vibrant display of Chinese culture.
5
Best ?lms
This list evaluates the top movies for college 
students of the 201213 academic school year.
6
Television
Arrested Development is scheduled to return 
for its fourth season in late May.
7
Gallery Crawl
The Cultural Districts quarterly arts and culture 
event is enthralling but overwhelming.
8
Garden of Light
A new exhibit at the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History showcases dazzling jewelry.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that former Vice President Al 
Gore was the 2008 commencement speaker?
10
Puzzles
Dont wait till August for the solutions; theyll 
be up on our website this week.
13
Horoscopes
What will you do over the summer without any 
predictions?
14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for things to do 
in the last week before final exams.
15

---------------------------------------------------

art 
pillbox 04.29.133
Abumrad offers a science journalists perspective
Radiolab co-host describes the tensions that are integral to both discussing science and doing his job
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Is it true? Is this really your last column? Who will 
I turn to to solve my existential crises? Who will 
offer pithy solutions to my banal problems? 
Thanks,
Ire Necessary, Escaping Everyone, Doubtless 
Yearning Oncoming Unavoidably
Dear I NEED YOU,
(No ones ever said that to me before.) Take a deep 
breath. I know it will be hard. Im not sure what Ill do 
when I cant bestow my pearls of wisdom to my two 
loyal readers. I may have to walk up to people on the 
street and tell them how to properly live their lives. Ive 
done that before, but who knew mothers didnt want a 
22-year-old dude telling them how to raise their kids? 
Is it my fault theyre doing it wrong? (Answer: Yes  I 
should have addressed it in this column.)
Once Im gone, youll probably try to find some other 
substitute, going up to other dashing young men you 
meet and asking them for advice. When Im gone, 
someone else will be taking over this column  although 
that person wont be as wise as I am, or witty, or 
handsome. If you really rely on advice from a college 
newspaper, you probably have problems that cant be 
addressed in this column.
Have a drink in my honor,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I cant move my body. I look down. My legs are 
jelly. Look up. The clouds are jelly. Everything is 
jelly. Im on a piece of toast. The sky is peanut 
butter. The sky is falling. Im in a sandwich. My 
bones are the crunch in the peanut butter. I smell 
delicious. Someone drops the sandwich. I crawl 
away. Giant monsters surround me. Six-legged 
beasts. Mandibles close around me. I try to 
scream. I taste peanut butter. Help.
Thanks,
Im Hairless, Avaricious, Voracious Eating Nonstop, 
Ogres Mouth-breathing, Orifices Ultimately Trifle, 
Helplessly Am Noodles, Dying Im Tastelessly 
Attacked, Somehow Tirelessly Enervated, Please, 
Eagerly Advise, Need Unusual Tips, Bloodlines 
Utterly Terminated, Terriers Eagerly Ruminate
Dear I HAVE NO MOUTH AND I TASTE PEANUT 
BUTTER,
Relax. There are no giant ants. Its a dream. Youll 
be okay. Im aware of the chair Im sitting in. The Old 
English changes to ashes in my mouth. I cough them 
up but nothing comes out. The computer stares back at 
me. Every time I press a key it lets out a quiet scream. It 
hurts. Every type hurts. The Q feels safe. No one hits 
the Q. I hit the Q. It screams louder than the rest. Where 
am I? The keys fight back. They press my fingers.
I cry. I cant stop. The keys type me. What am I doing? 
Where am I? Someone passed out behind me. The 
guitar stops. My tears are now of joy. The silence is 
endless. Silence everywhere. I taste the silence. Please 
make noise, any noise. I look down and my fingers 
are sausages. The keys are the forks of party-goers 
at a fancy cocktail party. Poking and prodding. Am I 
cooked already? Theyre so hungry. Why is everything 
on a skewer? Now they have to spend the whole party 
walking around with the skewers. I smell delicious.
Cut me some slack, its my last column,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries to advice@thetartan.org.
A departing columnist offers a final blessing to his (two) loyal readers
Fighting with your best friend, studying for a challenging 
exam, pulling on a rubber band until it almost snaps  
all of these things create what we de?ne as tension. But 
what about a well-told story? According to Radiolab cohost Jad Abumrad, that involves tension, too.
Abumrad and his co-host Robert Krulwich have spent 
years developing Radiolab, a popular NPR program 
now in its 11th season that has become known for its 
accessibility in dealing with challenging scienti?c and 
lofty philosophical questions. Abumrad and Krulwich 
ask real questions and look for real answers that can 
be understood by real people  and they do so in an 
entertaining and engaging way. Thats something that 
few can brag about.
Abumrads talk on Tuesday, hosted by AB Lectures, 
was humorous, honest, and inspiring. His story is one of 
uncertainty, setbacks  and, well, tension. He embodies 
some combination of journalist, musician, producer, 
scientist, and philosopher, but he is none of these things 
in the traditional sense. The tension in his job is the 
kind of tension that lies in the head of someone whos 
doing something thats hard to describe, he said.
During college, Abumrad studied music composition and 
creative reading, dreaming of writing scores for ?lm. But 
after writing one full score for a feature ?lm, he realized 
that path wasnt quite right for him. His fascination with 
the abstractions of science and nature began in his mid20s, and it wasnt until then that he began to ?nd a place 
to combine all of his interests.
He started Radiolab with Krulwich in 2005 and has been 
?lling a gap in science journalism ever since. Listeners 
have come to expect a lot from a Radiolab episode; in 
addition to the compelling content, the show features 
a unique production style. Incorporating music, sound 
effects, and raw interview clips  interspersed with 
live questions from the hosts  creates a natural ?ow of 
thought that guides listeners on a mental journey.
In many ways, each episode is like a musical 
composition, with slower buildup sections and highintensity crescendos into the meat of the story. Every 
second of the show is more compelling and engaging 
than the second before, seducing the listener, as 
Abumrad put it. Its kind of slutty, he joked.
Perhaps the most dif?cult part of creating the show, 
he noted, is balancing the stickiness of stories and 
the intensity of science to create a meaningful and 
memorable learning experience for listeners. Working 
hard to ?nd a balance between science and philosophy, 
wonder and fact, Abumrad acknowledged that stress is 
an important part of what he does. It means Im doing 
my job, he said.
Like any other endeavor, Radiolab sometimes has 
failures, as Abumrad was quick to point out. There are 
times when con?icts cant be resolved on the show 
and when no real answer comes out of an interview. 
To Krulwich and Abumrad, however, its important to 
broadcast their failures, because their job is to explore 
the world, and failures are to be expected.
The lecture was announced just days before, which may 
have contributed to the low audience turnout. But for 
those who were there, Abumrads experiences held real 
value. As his work with Radiolab has made him keenly 
aware of, we are a network of sometimes-contradictory 
thoughts, and, to Abumrad, thats okay. What really 
matters is how we react to the tension.
Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor 

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 04.29.13
If youre currently reading this article and dont know 
the story of William Shakespeares Romeo & Juliet, you 
should probably just stop reading. No? All right, if thou 
doth persist. The timeless classic tells the story of young 
lovers Romeo and Juliet whose respective families are 
locked in a perpetual feud. Their love goes through 
multiple trials until they ?nally ?nd peace in committing 
suicide in each others arms.
Just about everyone has been told this story, so what 
makes a production of the play stand out is how the 
story is told. The School of Dramas production of Romeo 
& Juliet, directed by voice and speech professor Don 
Wadsworth, de?nitely takes an interesting and relevant 
approach to the time-tested tale.
This Romeo & Juliet is set in the modern day, and this 
setting helps bring forth many of the central themes of 
the play. Phone cameras and Facebook statuses ?gure 
prominently in the characters actions, and costuming 
and music choices ?rmly establish the play in the 
present. By setting the 500-year-old tale in the ecstasyfueled, individualistic culture of todays youth, this 
production conveys the continued resonance of Romeo 
and Juliets story and illustrates why this show will never 
die.
Romeo and Juliet perfectly capture the rush of being 
in love and the desire to make that feeling, that 
one moment in time, last forever despite daunting 
circumstances. The violence of the play also speaks 
volumes about the needlessness of the deaths in todays 
society, especially since it all occurs amongst youth. Just 
as with the recent explosion of mass shootings around 
the country, the youth of Romeo & Juliet die for reasons 
completely unknown to them, and that makes their drive 
to ful?ll their lives all the more powerful.
As with most School of Drama productions, the acting as 
a whole is top notch. Senior acting major Brian Morabito 
takes full advantage of the extroverted Mercutio, turning 
him into a whiskey-swigging, coke-snif?ng loose 
cannon. Senior acting major Marquis Woods Tybalt 
perfectly complements Morabito by matching that level 
of energy, but with laser-sharp focus. Senior acting 
major Alex Spieths Nurse kept the audience in stitches 
throughout with her sharp comic delivery and occasional 
sips from a ?ask.
And of course, it wouldnt be Romeo & Juliet without 
a Romeo and a Juliet. Senior acting major Adam 
Hagenbuch and senior acting major Grace Rao support 
the entire play as the title characters, and each does a 
great job at avoiding the usual pitfalls that accompany 
the roles (e.g. being whiny, foolish, immature, etc.). 
Senior acting major Lachlan McKinney takes the role 
of Friar Lawrence and does a lot of great things with it. 
McKinney expertly swings from providing comic relief 
to portraying a man helplessly watching everyones lives 
fall apart, and he does it with all the commitment and 
energy that makes people forget theyre watching an 
actor pretend to be someone else.
The set is minimally decorated but encompasses 
multiple levels, allowing the action to occur in numerous 
places. The actors all inhabit a space thats closed in 
on three sides by chain-link fence, a set that highlights 
the urban environment in which the play is set, as well 
as the characters feeling of entrapment, both in their 
inability to love each other due to the feud and their 
inability to change their fate and eventual demise.
The decision to incorporate modern-day music into 
the production is an interesting one, but the music 
was occasionally distracting. At times it drowned out 
the actors or made the production feel a little bit too 
cinematic. That being said, when it worked (such as the 
use of What Ive Done by Linkin Park at the conclusion 
of the ?rst half) it made the play really hit you in the gut.
Romeo & Juliet is a tough play to do because just about 
everyone knows how its going to end (Shakespeare 
even lays it all out in the opening prologue, though 
this production leaves those lines for the end). For a 
production to have any resonance for the audience, the 
story must be told in a new and exciting way that they 
havent seen before. The School of Drama de?nitely 
found a good way to showcase both the talents of 
its students (everything from acting to set design 
to lighting) and prove that a play written during the 
Elizabethan era can still pack a punch and be relevant 
today. Romeo & Juliet is a play that perfectly embraces 
what its like to be young and in love, and thats a feeling 
that anyone can somehow relate to.
Joey Peiser | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Louis Stein
Romeo, played by senior acting major Adam 
Hagenbuch, and Juliet, played by senior acting major 
Grace Rao, meet at a masquerade ball.
Romeo & Juliet stays relevant, vibrant
School of Drama presents classic in a current context that preserves plays power

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 04.29.135
One Night in Beijing whisks students away
The White Serpent performance explores ancient Chinese legends, poetry, and song
For students who grew up in more homogenous areas, 
coming to Carnegie Mellon can be eye opening in many 
ways. One of the perks of this community is the diversity 
seen on campus. 
While this diversity is easily seen walking from class to 
class, each group also has representation on campus 
through the many organizations that celebrate the 
culture with which they identify.
One of these organizations, Awareness of Roots in 
Chinese Culture (ARCC), chose to share Chinese culture 
through its annual show, One Night in Beijing. Directed 
by ARCC president Victor Dong and One Night in 
Beijing coordinator Dennis Liang, this production is one 
that helps students feel connected to Chinese culture.
Because it is the one big event for ARCC each year, 
students old and new begin working on the show nearly 
two months in advance, and they ?nd it extremely 
rewarding. First-year undeclared Dietrich College 
student Vira Shao said the reason she joined the 
production was that she felt out of touch with her roots 
and wanted to reconnect.
However, the performance is not just rewarding for the 
performers themselves: The production also compels 
audience members to feel connected to the Chinese 
culture, regardless of whether or not they identify with 
it. 
This years theme was The White Serpent, based on 
the legend of Bai Suzhen and Xu Xian, who cross the 
barriers between the spirit world and the mortal world 
with their love. The story is punctuated with dance, 
song, and music, many of which portray ancient Chinese 
traditions.
The production was engaging throughout. While the 
moral of the story could be considered cheesy, the actors 
did not take themselves too seriously, adding humor 
that supplemented their overall message. Students 
spent large amounts of time preparing for the show, as 
evidenced by the number of props and costumes.
While most of the acts were enjoyable, the standout 
performances were those that emphasized aspects of 
Chinese culture while fusing them with more modern 
qualities. One such performance, Deep in the Quiet 
Night, used fans and interpretive dance to depict 
an ancient Chinese poem and featured beautiful 
choreography. 
But arguably the best performance of the night was A 
Love Before Time, a song from the movie Crouching 
Tiger, Hidden Dragon. First-year chemical engineering 
and biomedical engineering double major Carrie Qiu had 
a voice that outshone the rest, and she delivered a lovely 
performance at the end of the show.
One Night in Beijing was a great experience for those 
wanting a taste of Chinese tradition. It was satisfying to 
see a performance in which students are proud of their 
heritage and are inspired to share it with the rest of the 
student body.
Diana Pacilio | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Dennis Liang
Students perform a dance number with fans as part 
of Awareness of Roots in Chinese Cultures One 
Night in Beijing in Rangos on Saturday night.

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 04.29.13
This isnt your typical high-brow list ?lled with Oscar 
nominations or European art ?lms. Lets face it: Argo was 
far from the best picture of the year and only won Best 
Picture because it kissed Hollywoods butt and featured 
the comeback of Ben Af?eck and his amazing facial hair. 
The ?lms listed below are the ones that impacted college 
students. Theyre actually exciting, and they took us to 
another world without leaving us hopeless or depressed 
at the end (*cough* Amour *cough*). In no particular 
order, we present to you some of the best ?lms of the 
201213 school year.
Facing Morality Without Sentimentality
Flight
Dont let the trailer fool you. While at ?rst glance it may 
seem like a ridiculous plot centered around Denzel 
Washington commandeering an upside-down airplane, 
Flight presents a very real and very dif?cult struggle 
over addiction and responsibility. Washington gives a 
powerhouse performance as the alcoholic pilot driven to 
humility and acceptance over the destructive choices 
that make this ?lm so believable and human.
The Sessions 
A story about a quadriplegic who vows to lose his 
virginity with the help of a sex surrogate, The Sessions 
is an incredibly beautiful ?lm about living a life 
unrestrained by fear and paralysis, physical or otherwise. 
John Hawkes provides a miraculously powerful yet 
accessible portrait of a man who wants to live a normal 
but ful?lling life  one that not only moves viewers to 
tears but also inspires them to do the same.
The Mind Bender
Looper
Expertly blending futuristic sci-? with old-school 
gangster movies, Looper follows time-traveling mobsters 
who kill victims sent from the future. Rather than getting 
bogged down in the mechanics of time travel, Looper 
instead focuses on thorough character development, 
allowing for a meaningful and contemplative story arc.
Seven Psychopaths 
Written and directed by legendary playwright Martin 
McDonagh, Seven Psychopaths is a refreshing black 
comedy crime ?lm with an all-star cast that delivers 
amazing performances and biting wit. The ?lm begins 
with a seemingly harmless and playful plot around a 
struggling screenwriter named Marty, played by Colin 
Farrell, trying to ?nd the perfect movie. He becomes 
entangled in a dog kidnapping plot while trying to 
deal with two men named Billy and Hans  played by 
Sam Rockwell and the incredible Christopher Walken, 
respectively  who run a dog-kidnapping business. 
Little do they know how much trouble they run into 
when they steal the beloved Shih Tzu of a dangerous and 
psychotic L.A. mobster named Charlie, played by Woody 
Harrelson. The story possesses incredible twists and 
turns that make the ?lm very dark, yet genuinely funny 
within seconds. Walken is pitch-perfect as the delicately 
cunning Hans, and Farrell is marvelous as the anxietydriven character driven into a whirlwind of psychopaths. 
Together, they make for a truly entertaining picture.
Man vs. Beast, Man as Beast
Life of Pi
Ang Lee managed to make a seemingly un?lmable book 
into one of the best ?lms in recent history. The story 
revolves around a teenage Indian boy named Pi who has 
lost everything, including his family, in a shipwreck. Pi 
?nds himself stranded in the vast nothingness of the 
sea with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. A visual 
and spiritual masterpiece of cinema, Life of Pi is a rare 
treasure that makes a viewer question not only the 
journey that Pi faces, but how one should view life itself: 
Should we focus only on the inevitable dark misfortunes 
of life, or should we convert those misfortunes into a 
beautiful experience of its own? In a way, everyone 
has a little bit of Pi in them, which makes this ?lm a 
magni?cent ode to life and how we as human beings 
should decide to live it.
The Heart Warmers
Silver Linings Playbook
A story about mental disease and about moving on with 
life, Silver Linings Playbook is a romantic comedy done 
right. With Bradley Cooper as an estranged husband 
diagnosed with bipolar disorder and Jennifer Lawrence 
as a sex-crazed but wounded widow, there is plenty 
of homely spark that provides warmth and joy for its 
viewers. In its vulnerable characters lies the relatable 
core of this ?lm, making it a journey of hope and 
acceptance for two seemingly messed-up characters 
who ?nd each other in chaotic circumstances.
The Intouchables
A cultural sensation in its native France, The 
Intouchables is a storytelling miracle in which a rich 
quadriplegic named Phillipe befriends a man off the 
street named Driss and hires him as a caretaker. While 
it seems like an overdone formula, The Intouchables 
conveys fresh and true feelings of affection and love that 
develop in the strongest human relationships.
The Troublemakers
Django Unchained
Quentin Tarantinos wild Spaghetti Western epic is  as 
expected  ?lled with rich dialogue and spectacular 
performances that make it one of the most entertaining 
pictures of the year. With several stylistic showdowns 
between a vengeful Jamie Foxx as Django and Leonardo 
DiCaprio as Calvin Candie  a southern version of a 
young monarch who likes to play sick games   Django 
Unchained exceeds any other ?lm this year in terms of 
explosive charisma and energy.
Spring Breakers
There are going to be expectations when Disney starlets 
play wild party girls spending their college spring break 
with a gangster with a heart of gold named Alien, 
played by a James Franco complete with cornrows, 
tattoos, and grills. While it may seem like an airheaded 
excuse for exploiting young actresses, Spring Breakers 
takes a sudden and dark turn that feels more like a reallife experience than an actual ?lm. Director Harmony 
Korine creates a splashy, ?zzy portrait of a spring break 
gone too far  yet he infuses it with enough life that its 
hard not become invested in the girls wild journey. Plus, 
there is a Britney Spears montage. Enough said.
The Modern Masterpiece
Anna Karenina
One of the most overlooked ?lms of this year, the 
newest adaptation of Anna Karenina provides a bizarre 
yet entrancingly beautiful new look for the Tolstoy 
classic. Joe Wright, director of ?lms such as Pride and 
Prejudice, Atonement, and Hanna creates a blazing 
theatricality that enhances the majestic Russian setting 
as well as the dramatic nature of the story. With Keira 
Knightley playing the doomed protagonist, she provides 
a charming and complex portrait that falls in love with 
the seductive Count Vronsky, played by Aaron Taylor 
Johnson. The ?lm is gloriously unique with its dream-like 
aura and fabulous performances that uphold the classic 
novels reputation.
Hopefully, this will serve as a refreshing guide from the 
otherwise redundant lists that overlooked a few ?lms. 
With a wide array of genres and themes, there are many 
great experiences to be had when watching some of 
the best movies that helped us survive another year as 
college students.
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
Joe Anthony Martinez | Junior Staffwriter
A comprehensive movie guide: 201213
Take a look back at this school year in ?lm through this thematic, approachable list of movies

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 04.29.137
After a seven-year hiatus, the critically acclaimed 
television comedy Arrested Development will return with 
a new season starting on May 26. The show, originally 
produced by and aired on FOX, was cancelled in 2006 
due to low ratings and a lack of viewers  even though 
it won multiple awards, including six Emmys and one 
Golden Globe.
For years, there were rumors that a spin-off movie based 
on the show was being written and produced, Arrested 
Development has remained off the air and the screen 
since 2006. Now, the show is back  but as opposed to 
airing weekly on FOX, the fourth season will premiere 
solely on Net?ix, which will release all 15 episodes 
simultaneously.
Renowned for its tongue-in-cheek attitude toward issues 
like homosexuality, incest, alcohol, and tax evasion, 
but Arrested Development focuses on the drama 
surrounding the Bluth family  drama that they cause 
and inevitably exacerbate. Sometimes touching and 
sometimes just plain weird, the show has one constant: 
quirky charm.
Its charm is largely due to the cast of the show, and 
when it was announced that the show would be 
revamped, there were concerns about maintaining this 
originality. However, despite the six-year gap since the 
last episode was ?lmed, most of the original cast will be 
resuming their original roles, including Jason Bateman 
as Michael Bluth, Portia de Rossi as his sister Lindsay 
Fnke, Jessica Walter as their mother Lucille Bluth, 
Michael Cera as Michaels son George Michael Bluth, 
David Cross as Lindsays husband Tobias Fnke, and 
Jeffrey Tambor as the patriarch of the family, George 
Bluth, Sr. The show also features Ron Howard as the 
voice of the narrator in addition to his role as producer.
Many of the guest characters featured on the show 
are also returning to the now Net?ix-exclusive series, 
including Liza Minnelli and Ben Stiller. In addition to the 
returning characters, the show also boasts a Hollywoodhefty playbill for the new season, including guest stars 
such as Isla Fisher, John Slattery, and Kristen Wiig.
Its both surprising and praiseworthy that, after such a 
long break, the show would attract not only such a starstudded returning cast but an in?ux of such well-known 
guest stars. Perhaps even more surprising is the amount 
of public attention and hype the show has gained in 
anticipation of the new season. New memes based on 
the show are circulating and quotes from the show are 
popping up in conversation: Its clear that people are 
talking about it.
While it had its shortcomings, perhaps the shows 
absence has made viewers realize how much they 
missed the quirky Bluth family. Though the shows past 
main problems have been low viewership and audience 
ratings, Arrested Development has always received 
respectable reviews from critics. Hopefully, the new 
Net?ix exclusive series will return with a bang and make 
the comeback even more exciting than the original 
series.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Arrested Development to return next month
Nearly a decade later, fourth season of the television comedy will premiere on Net?ix
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
In Looper, Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Bruce Willis play 
the same dude, divided by time travel  ones the hero, 
the others the villain. Writer/director Rian Johnson has 
an inspiring faith in love  in this case, showing that it 
can drive someone to evil. The ?lms virtue is in its pure 
strength as both a genre-based product and a vessel 
for human observation. Looper has a few interesting 
things to say about time travel, but it has more poignant 
insights on sacri?ce, morality, and fatherhood. Its 
an intensely interesting picture that will one day be 
recognized as a pillar of science ?ction.
Looper
Thursday, May 2
7:30 10
Zero Dark Thirty
Friday, May 3
7 10 1
Last years media frenzy surrounding Zero Dark Thirty 
mostly centered around its depiction of torture in the 
hunt for Osama bin Laden. Its unfortunate because, 
while those sequences play like an artsy version of 24, 
the ?lm is otherwise an extraordinary procedural. Jessica 
Chastain turns in an explosive performance as Maya, a 
CIA agent who spearheaded the bin Laden investigation. 
A series of great supporting performances, a tense and 
forceful screenplay, and a ?nal 50 minutes that will glue 
you to your chair make this a political procedural not to 
be missed, and one of the best pictures of 2012.
Mulan
Saturday, May 4
8 10 12
Take a trip back to your childhood with 1998s Mulan, 
certainly one of the ?ner Disney musicals of that decade. 
The ?lm, set during Chinas Han Dynasty, depicts the 
journey of a woman who masquerades as a man in 
order to join the army and ?ght against a Hun invasion. 
Since its a Disney musical, she is required to carry 
along a colorful pair of animals of different species  
in this case, a dragon and a cricket. Mulan lacks the 
memorable songs of The Lion King or Aladdin, but is 
markedly improved by a level of visual splendor rarely 
achieved in animation.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
David Cross, who plays Tobias Fnke, is among the 
Arrested Development actors who will resume their 
original roles on the show.

---------------------------------------------------

The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust held its quarterly Gallery 
Crawl on Friday. The Gallery Crawl is a grand tour 
around the galleries, shops, studios, and restaurants of 
Pittsburghs Cultural District and is free and open to the 
public.
The Gallery Crawl features an eclectic selection of 
venues, artists, and performers designed to re?ect the 
lushness and variety of Pittsburghs ?ourishing art scene. 
It includes both professional and amateur works of art 
and performance, as well as the wares and services of 
independent local vendors and businesses.
With nearly 40 stops to see and even more events to 
visit, the Gallery Crawl was completely overwhelming. It 
is impossible to cover all of the events even in four hours. 
Throughout the night, there were restaurants ?lled with 
activity, music ?lling the streets, and people rushing 
in and out of venues; it is almost the exact picture you 
would think of if asked to dream of a city.
The venues that inspired the atmosphere of the night 
were just as important as the aura of the Gallery Crawl. 
There were some truly awe-inspiring works on display. 
For instance, in the Wood Street Galleries, Gregory 
Barsamians exhibition Memento Mori features a dozen 
or so fascinating and dark machinations. Using strobe 
lights and spinning kinetic sculptures, Barsamian 
is able to create a new creature altogether, a sort of 
mesmerizing Frankenstein of sculpture and ?lm. Based 
on his dream recordings, Memento Mori features works 
that are dark, intense, and surreal. There are paper 
worms writhing around in tiny rooms, paper bags 
breathing in and out, and human hearts turning into 
birds.
Another incredible exhibit is Tony Tassets Magnolias 
for Pittsburgh, an outdoor installation on the corner 
of Seventh and Penn avenues. Magnolias features a 
deceptively simple concept that nonetheless manages to 
stun: two bronze magnolia trees placed in a landscape 
with a few live magnolia trees and some ivy.
At ?rst sight, it is almost impossible to tell that the 
?owering magnolias are indeed fake; each petal of every 
?ower had been individually hand-painted and the tree 
itself had been cast from a hand-sculpted replica. The 
trees, with their fresh, eternally blooming pink ?owers 
on dark black boughs, exude an ethereal sense of beauty 
that becomes even stronger the moment you realize the 
trees are not real.
Another highlight of the evening was the Night 
Market, a gathering of local Pittsburgh vendors to 
display their wares. There was an incredible variety of 
vendors there, selling food, jewelry, beauty products, 
art, clothing, accessories, and more. The Night Market 
was an amazing opportunity to see the creativity and 
feature
pillbox 04.29.1398feature
pillbox 04.29.13
Gallery Crawl features ?lm, sculpture, food, vendors, live comedy of the Cultural District
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents an overwhelming overview of Downtown Pittsburgh in sweeping exhibition that shows off venues and works by a variety of artists and performers
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
by Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter[]
workmanship of these local artisans and buy souvenirs.
Yet another major component of the Gallery Crawl was 
familiarizing audiences with the local community. 
The Gallery Crawl itself required attendees to venture 
into restaurants and buildings all around the Cultural 
District and invited exploration into what the city had 
to offer. There were also a number of venues dedicated 
to showcasing work from students in schools around 
Pittsburgh, as well as from local artists and businesses.
One of the venues that featured the most student work 
was the Trust Arts Education Center, which displays 
the works of Pittsburgh public schools students, grades 
K12. There is an undeniable charm in the works of 
some of the younger students: a sense of innocence and 
imagination, ?lled with bright colors, smiley faces, and 
the occasional sense of great artistic promise. Among 
the older students, there is a more re?ned sense of 
creative expression and a wide variety of subject matter, 
ranging from marriage to race to transportation. After a 
few hours of seeing professional artwork, it was relaxing 
to look at the work of these younger artists.
Other venues were focused on exploring a certain 
concept or theme in their exhibits. For instance, the 
SPACE gallery partnered with the mentoring program 
Strong Women, Strong Girls (which has a branch at 
Carnegie Mellon)  featured Mean Girls, an exhibit 
designed to raise awareness of bullying among girls 
in America and to encourage positive social change. 
Another venue, the August Wilson Center for AfricanAmerican Culture, celebrated and honored the vivacity 
and diversity of African-American culture in Pittsburgh.
On perhaps a less sociopolitical note, there were also 
medium-speci?c venues such as the ToonSeum, which 
features the work of cartoonists and animators. The 
ToonSeum is part museum and part comic book shop, a 
combination that would excite any cartoon a?cionado. 
Featuring political cartoons, Sunday-morning newspaper 
comics, and animated movie stills, the museum takes 
visitors on a lovely little trip down memory lane to 
rediscover the magic of cartoons and animation and 
appreciate the medium in a new light.
The evening also featured a number of performances and 
musical acts. For instance, the Arcade Comedy Theater, 
which specializes in alternative and improvisational 
comedy, continually held brief, bite-sized snippets of 
improvisational comedy throughout the night. Also, its 
neighboring venue, Harris Theater, played regionally 
made short ?lms shown on a loop.
Pittsburgh public school students also put on a number 
of performances. Between the Trust Arts Education 
Center and August Wilson Center there were student 
musicals and choir performances, a fashion show, and 
plenty of dance shows.
The Gallery Crawl is a unique opportunity to experience 
what Pittsburgh has to offer in terms of culture and 
entertainment. The only complaint it raised was that it 
is only a one-day event; it would be more successful if it 
spanned over two days. During the Gallery Crawl, there 
were many performances that played at the same time, 
making it impossible to see the events all in one night.
Anyone who lives in Pittsburgh should go see the Gallery 
Crawl at least once. No matter the person, the Gallery 
Crawl will have something to please them. But most 
importantly, it is an integral part of the city experience. 
There is a tangible thrill of excitement and grandiosity 
up and down Liberty and Penn avenues, with music and 
activity infused in the evening air, as you pass the shops, 
restaurants, and bars on an art excursion.
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Wood Street Galleries featured an exhibit of sculpture and film titled Memento Mori by Gregory Barsamian. The exhibit concentrated on rotating objects and the way that light 
reflected off them. When the light hit the pictures, which featured the artist, correctly, viewers can see a rotoscope animation.
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Top: The Harris Theater featured clips of short films 
that played on a loop all day for the quarterly Gallery 
Crawl. Left: Gregory Barsamians exhibit was based 
on recordings of his dreams.

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 04.29.13
Tucked away at the back of the Hillman Hall of 
Minerals and Gems in the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History is a small room filled with dazzling 
jewels and stunning necklaces, bracelets, brooches, 
and more. While they look as though they could 
belong to royalty, in reality the precious gems in this 
room are the works of artist Paula Crevoshay as part 
of the Garden of Light exhibit.
As one enters the room, a large turquoise and 
gold necklace glittering under its display case 
immediately catches the viewers eye. Strategically 
placed at the center of the room, this necklace drew 
several visitors to the exhibit and was unarguably 
the main attraction. Nevertheless, the multitude of 
sparkling artifacts lining the walls could capture the 
attention of jewelry aficionados and those indifferent 
to jewelry alike.
Crevoshay, who has been designing jewelry for more 
than 30 years, began doing so as a hobby. After 
four years of learning ancient metal techniques 
used in India, she launched her career in jewelry 
design. Crevoshays workshops currently span the 
U.S. from New Mexico to New York, with additional 
locations in Thailand and Hong Kong. Her pieces 
are priced between $5,000 and $250,000, and have 
been compared to those by designers Faberg and 
Lalique. The main reason for such steep prices is 
her design process: According to Whirl magazine, 
each piece is drawn by hand, and contains 18-karat 
yellow gold intertwined with gemstones that have 
been sourced from all over the world.
Each collection featured in the Garden of Light 
exhibit is entirely unique from the next, yet 
still unified by the common theme of nature. 
Crevoshay draws inspiration from the beauty of the 
environment, evidenced by names such as The 
Undersea Garden and Big Blue Marble for her 
jewelry collections.
The previously mentioned turquoise and gold 
necklace is part of The Undersea Garden 
collection. Other standouts in the exhibit include 
the What is Green? display, consisting of jewelry 
characterized by gold swirls and intricately carved 
gems in the emerald hue, as well as the watercentric Big Blue Marble, which contains jewels 
with opal, pearl, and turquoise. Yet another called 
Winged Partners pays tribute to its namesake, 
with glimmering brooches in the shapes of 
butterflies and dragonflies. Even for someone 
without any interest in brooches, it is impossible 
not to admire the elegance of Crevoshays designs.
Those with no inclination toward jewelry should 
not be discouraged from visiting this exhibit. As 
beautiful as the Garden of Light is, it is educational 
as well. There is one display of famous diamonds 
from around the world, where the description 
reads, Many have adorned the crowns of royalty, 
while others have been lost in the mists of time. 
Each gemstone has its source location indicated, 
and some are even emphasized, such as the 
Tourmalines of Brazil collection. This enchanting 
exhibit takes visitors out of the museum and 
transports them to, as the name indicates, a garden 
of light.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
The Garden of Light exhibit will be on display at the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History through Aug. 
11.
Jewelry exhibit sparkles and shines 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History presents Garden of Light
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
April 3, 1913
The Tartan reminds students that 
school spirit means more than just 
cheering at athletic events. Students 
heading home for the Easter holiday 
are urged to reach out to graduating 
seniors from their hometown and 
promote the advantages of a Carnegie 
Tech education.
50years ago
April 24, 1963
The sixth glass door collapsed in Skibo 
Gymnasium. As with the previous 
five broken panes, it is unclear why 
the door appears to have fallen and 
shattered. The Tartan suggests that 
Skibo should hold off on replacing 
the door to air out the stench of the 
gymnasium and spend other funds 
mopping up other areas of campus.
25years ago
April 26, 1988
The Housing and Dining Office was 
informally accused by two students of 
breaking the dorm room entry policy 
over spring break. One student had a 
refrigerator unplugged over the break 
that caused his milk to spoil and stink 
up the room. 
10years ago
April 21, 2003
A newly approved exam policy puts 
more power in the hands of stressed, 
overworked students. Students are not 
required to take more than one exam 
on the same day, and classes with final 
exams cannot have a final project due 
on the last day of classes, nor can a 
class require both a final exam and a 
project to be due during finals week.
5years ago
April 28, 2008
Former Vice President Al Gore is the 
2008 commencement speaker and 
plans to talk about green initiatives at 
the event. With Carnegie Mellons hope 
of training students to better care for 
the environment in innovative ways, 
Gore seems like an excellent candidate 
to inspire graduating seniors.
1year ago
April 30, 2012
CMU EMS, University Police, and 
the Pittsburgh Police dealt with 
myriad underage drinking and drug 
issues over Carnival weekend. A 
University of Pittsburgh student was 
found unconscious next to Doherty 
Hall during the Passion Pit Carnival 
concert, and a Donner resident had 
to be transported to the hospital after 
ingesting LSD. Nikita Mishra | Junior Photographer
The designs for the stunningly detailed jewelry pieces in the Garden of Light exhibit at the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History were each hand drawn by artist Paula Crevoshay.  

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.29.1311
Riddle by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.29.13
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com
Wrong Hands by John Atkinson
wronghands1@gmail.comwronghands1.wordpress.com
Riddle by Doghouse Diaries

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.29.1313
Solutions from Apr. 22
CrosswordHard DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue at its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.29.13
1. Fall faller
2. ___ breve
3. Tribute
4. Letter-writer
5. Continues a subscription
6. Fit to be tied
7. Poi source
8. Biol. or chem.
9. Legendary king of Thebes
10. Subatomic particle
11. Missouri feeder
12. Mary of The Maltese Falcon
13. Ages between 13 and 19
21. 9th letter of the Hebrew alphabet
23. Oozes
25. Meanies
26. Eastern nanny
27. Shredded
28. Uriss ___ 18
29. Actor Quinn
32. ___ the hole
33. Reiterant
34. Pack ___ (quit)
35. Centrepiece of the human face
36. Growl
38. Narrow groove
42. Shore
43. McGregor of Trainspotting
47. Actually existing
48. Devilfish
49. Staggering
50. Chart anew
51. Govt. security
52. Group of 12
54. Office note
55. Sleep like ___
56. ___ avis
57. River of Flanders
60. San Franciscos ___ Hill
1. See ya!
6. Wishing wont make ___
10. Castle ring
14. Run away with a lover
15. Contest, ethnicity
16. ___ quam videri (North 
Carolinas motto)
17. Exhausted
18. Dry and waterless
19. Fill to surfeit
20. Forced high notes
22. Equal-angled shape
24. Affectedly dainty
25. Starters
26. Maximally
29. A shivering fit   often a 
precursor to malaria
30. Drudgery
31. Spring used for timepiece
37. City on the Rhone
39. Alphabet trio
40. Attack
41. Peace of mind
44. Galileos birthplace
45. Bit attachment
46. Frank
48. Pertaining to Mars
52. Comedian Carvey
53. Places of contest
54. Pecuniary
58. Verne captain
59. Don Juans mother
61. Eliots Marner
62. Milk source
63. Cupola
64. Night noise
65. Mont Blanc, par exemple
66. Black
67. Actress Samantha
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Some of the friends you made this semester will stick with 
you for the rest of your life.
taurus
april 20may 20
Now is the best time to start a big project since you are 
pumped and ready to take on the world.
gemini
may 21june 21
Summer break is a well-deserved breather for you, so dont 
do anything stressful.
cancer
june 22july 22
Dont get your hopes up, because chances are, its not 
going to happen.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
If you push too hard, those around you may not appreciate it.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You may feel like you are being wise, but carefully consider 
your actions.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Dont give in to temptation. Resist and you will reap bigger 
rewards later.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
There will be a lot of struggles this week, but dont let them 
get the better of you.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Pay attention to important issues this week, but not any 
more than they deserve.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. You may 
want to hang out in large groups rather than with just one 
friend.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Nature calls, but not in that way. Try to de-stress before 
finals with a nice hike or a fishing trip.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont forget to look up from the paperwork once in a while.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 04.29.1315
MONDAY4.29.13
Gaypril: F to eMBody. McConomy Auditorium. 7 p.m.
This free event celebrates transgender art, bringing 
transgender visibility, education, and art to campus. 
The event will feature spoken word and hip-hop 
performances.
TUESDAY4.30.13
Celebration of Education. Rangos Hall. 4:30 p.m.
In the annual Celebration of Education, Carnegie Mellon 
recognizes distinguished faculty members for their 
contributions to the university and their dedication to 
teaching. Students are welcome to attend.
MFA First-Year Academic Panel Presentations. 
College of Fine Arts 303. 6:30 p.m.
First-year Master of Fine Arts candidates will present 
academic research related to their artwork. Tuesday is 
the ?rst day of presentations and will feature students 
Isla Hansen, Jaewook Lee, and Dakotah Konicek. The 
second day of presentations will take place on May 
7 at 6:30 p.m. in the same location, and will feature 
Rafael Canedo, Jingjing Chen, and Lucia Nhamo. The 
presentations are free and open to the public, and 
refreshments will be served.
Twin Tigers. brillobox. 9:30 p.m.
Georgia-based rock band Twin Tigers will perform at 
brillobox with Imperial Railway and Young Brokaw. Twin 
Tigers second LP Death Wish was released at the 
beginning of April by Old Flame Records.
WEDNESDAY5.1.13
Gloriana St. Clair Celebration. Posner Center. 
4:30 p.m.
The university will recognize Dean of Libraries Gloriana 
St. Clair for her 15 years of service to Carnegie Mellon. 
St. Clair will become dean emerita this summer. The 
reception also opens an exhibition of the Carnegie Mellon 
READ card and poster series, which features members of 
the community with their favorite books.
THURSDAY5.2.13
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic. Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland. 8 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic will perform under 
the baton of Ronald Zollman. The concert will include 
Claude Debussys Prlude  laprs-midi dun faune, 
Igor Stravinskys Firebird Suite, and Maurice Ravels Ma 
mre loye. The concert is free for students with Carnegie 
Mellon ID, and general admission is $5.
FRIDAY5.3.13
Im Feeling Lucky: 2013 Senior Exhibition. 
Miller Gallery. 6 p.m.
Graduating members of the Bachelor of Fine Arts and 
BXA programs will present their ?nal works in a new Miller 
Gallery exhibit. The opening reception begins at 6 p.m. 
and a conversation with the artists and faculty will take 
place 6:309 p.m. The reception is free and open to the 
public. More information and gallery hours can be found 
at millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Adamson Writing Awards. Adamson Auditorium, 
Baker Hall 136. 5:30 p.m.
American poet and ?ction writer Victoria Redel will give 
a keynote presentation at this years Adamson Writing 
Awards, which recognize undergraduate student 
excellence in ?ction, poetry, screenwriting, and non?ction. 
The keynote presentation is free and open to the public.
Carnegie Mellon Contemporary Music Ensemble. 
Kresge Theatre. 8 p.m.
In its ?nal concert of the season, the Contemporary Music 
Ensemble will perform works by Mason Bates, associate 
composition professor Leonardo Balada, and Gavin 
Bryars under the direction of Daniel Nesta Curtis. The 
concert is free and open to the public.
SATURDAY5.4.13
Protect-U. 6119 Penn Ave. 10 p.m.
Electronic house DJ Protect-U will put on a show with 
Majeure and Pittsburgh Track Authority (PTA).
ONGOING
Adult Arcade. 707 Penn Gallery. Through May 17.
The new media installation features organically textured 
paintings, large geometric sculptures, robotic lasers, and 
disorienting soundscapes. More information and gallery 
hours can be found at trustarts.org.
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs.
What We Collect: Recent Art Acquisitions, 200712. 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through June 30.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation presents 
an exhibition of recent acquisitions to the art department, 
from the early 19th century to the present. 
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
1 BEDROOM LARGE CO-OP APARTMENT 
ON BELLEFIELD AVE. Totally Redone 2013. 
New Gourmet Kitchen and Bath, wall-to-wall 
carpeting. Inside Parking. Perfect for single 
faculty or couple. $95,000 412-621-7611
Spacious 2 BR apartment, N. Oakland, 
near Pgh Filmmakers. Remodeled 2011, 
laundry, $950+ utilities (water included). Call for 
appt: 412-521-0992.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 04.29.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
On Sunday, an algorithmic programming contest was held in Gates 
Hillman Complex. The contest was sponsored by Jump Trading, an 
international ?nancial technology ?rm. The ?rst-place winner was 
awarded an iPad, and the secondand third-place winners were 
awarded $200 each. 
programming contest.
