cTheCarnegie Tech Tartan
LJ
Volume 64  Number 12Wednesday, December 9, 1964
Dormitory Council Sponsor* Calendar Study To Be Made;
Noel Weekend At Morewood mew  r*wDean Brown I o Submit Plansby Candy Etkin
Christmas Weekend,sponsored by the Dormitory Council 
of Morewood Gardens, will be held the weekend of December
11. ? --------------------------------------------------
, A Morewood Mixer is sched
uled for Friday evening from 8:30 
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Dance music 
and refreshments will be served.
Dorm Council made no plans for 
Saturday night because of the an
nual fraternity Christmas parties.
Sunday an afternoon Open 
House and art display is planned.
Morewood residents will exhibit 
their works in one of the dormi
torys smaller main floor lounges.
There will be a balloting for the 
best-liked work, and a small 
award will be given.
Coordinators of the display are 
Ricki Hammerman, senior paint
ing and design, and Blair Hayes, 
sophomore painting and design.
Ricki feels that the display will 
encourage more art exhibits in the 
dormitory, Joan Berliner, chair-A V&ISJL 1AXA. t/VTA J y
man of Dormitory Councils En
tertainment Committee, said, We 
hope to provide a warmer atmos
phere at Morewood Gardens. The 
mixers and CSiristmas weekend 
are only initial steps in encour
aging more participation from dor
mitory members.
Ski Club Plans 
 Trip To Stowe
The Carnegie Tech Ski 
Club is planning a chartered 
bus trip to Stowe, Vermont 
for a full week of skiing from 
January 24 to 31.
The Carnegie Tech skiers will 
participate in a special ski-week 
program at Stowe with members 
Ji of the Duquesne and Chatham ski 
clubs. Included in the program 
will be unlimited lift tickets and 
five daily two-hour professional 
ski lessons. The total cost of lift 
and lessons will be $42. The regu
lar cost per day of lift and lesson 
is $11.
Students will be housed at the 
Round Hearth Ski Lodge. The 
club is getting a total discount of 
15% on seven days of lodging, 
20 which includes breakfast and 
dinner.
The total cost of the ski-week, 
including the $35 round-trip bus 
fare, will be $109.
Dr. William Pomputius, faculty 
member of the University of 
Pittsburgh, and his wife will ac
company the club to Stowe.
Reservations are being taken by 
Ralph (Tony) Williams, 1055 
Morewood Avenue, at 683-5518.
 The ski club must send in res
ervations to Stowe on January 4. 
For this reason, they ask that 
reservations be made early.
The reservation fee is $15, re
fundable until January 4.
Tues Assembly 
To Feature 
Caroling In FA
by Sue Attinson
The annual Christmas As
sembly will be held next Tues
day at 11:30 a.m. in the first 
floor lobby of the Fine Arts 
Building.
The Music Department Brass 
Ensemble will open the program 
with several Christmas selections. 
Norman Rice, Dean of the College 
of Fine Arts, will read from the 
Scripture and Dr. Hugh Clark, of 
the Church of the Redeemer, will 
give the offering.
Mrs. Elizabeth Hood, senior or
ganist from the Department of 
Music, will play: Two Noels, by 
Guilmant, and In Thee There Is 
Gladness, by Bach.
The Cameron Choir, under the 
direction of faculty conductor 
Richard Camp and student con
ductor, Phyllis Cohen, will sing 
Luvaas The Shepherds Christ
mas Song and Lewis Welcome 
Yule.
The chorus of the Department 
of Music will sing: Sweet was 
the Song, arranged by Jenkins; 
and Kolyada a Russian melody. 
Roland Leich and Cathleen Coul
ter will conduct the chorus.
Dr. John C. Warner will ad
dress the assembly.
Comm Seeks Student Opinion 
On Penn B. Other Calendars4 Colleges Go 
To 7 Springs
Students from Carnegie
Tech, Duquesne, Chatham ^ mi.. . The committee discussed theand Pitt will part.c.pate in a rp ,  I various calendar systems and
ski trip to Seven Springs re-1 A CCIl 1UC11 VxlVC|their use throuhout the countrv
sort on December 12. j ~ 1 11 Olsnowball Show
by Sue Attinson
The Carnegie Tech Calendar Committee met last week 
to discuss the 1966-67 academic calendar.
Dorm Party
Mens Dormitory Council will 
sponsor a Christmas Party, De
cember 12, 8:30 p.m. to 1 a.m., 
Donner Hall Lounge.
Music will be provided by The 
Shadows. Refreshments will be 
served. Coat and tie is required.
The trip will be open to all stu
dents, skiers and non-skiers, 
whether or not they are members 
of the ski clubs.
Student may get bus fare and 
lift tickets for $7; an additional $1 
pays for a ski lesson. Bus trans
portation, left tickets and rental 
of all necessary equipment are 
covered by a $10 fee.
Payment must be made on or 
before December 10. Checks or 
cash should be sent to Tech Ski 
Club; Campus Box 273. Informa
tion can be obtained from Richard 
Arnold, 421-6908. Complete re
funds will be given until the bus 
leaves.
The bus will leave from Skibo 
parking lot 7 a.m. Saturday.
Lepper Exhibits 
At Worlds Fair
Robert L. Lepper, Carnegie 
Tech professor in the Department 
of Painting, Design, and Sculpture, 
exhibited a structure at West Viriginia pavillian at the Worlds 
Fair.
The structure consisted of 67 
tiers of newspaper press plates 
showing concave and convex sides 
in a tribute to the free press of 
West Virginia.
Lepper, a member of the Car
negie Tech faculty since 1930, is 
a frequent contributor to archi
tectural and art journals. His 
works have been exhibited at Car
negie Institute, the Museum of 
Modern Art, and the Bicentennial 
Exhibition at the Pittsburgh Play
house.
by Carol S. Guber
Carnegie Techs first largescale snowball fight of the 
semester took place Dec. 2.
According to a fraternity man, 
I the fight began when ATO chal
lenged SAE. The fighters moved 
up to BTP and from there to SN. 
They then went to Morewood 
Gardens.
use throughout the country.
The student representative de
cided to take a survey of student 
opinion about the calendar sys
tem.
Survey forms will be distrib
uted next week to all freshmen, 
sophomores, sub-seniors, and a 
random sampling of juniors and 
seniors. They will explain the 
Penn B calendar system, describe 
the difference between this sys
tem and the conventional system, 
and ask for student preferences.
The results of the survey will 
At Morewood the fraternity be tabulated by Christmas'vacaDr. Pais Speaks Tonight
Professor Abraham Pais, Buhl 
lecturer in theoretical physics, 
will speak on Some Problems in 
| the Physics of Particles, at 8 
p.m. tonight in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
Dr. Pais received his doctorate 
from the University of Utrecht. 
Leaving Holland after World War
Assembly Report
II, he served for ten years as proj probably not make a notable 
fessor of physics at the Institute change in the South American 
for Advanced Studies, Princeton. Economic picture."
He is currently at the RockefelSaid Sims, 'DeGaulle found 
ler Institute in New York. that the lady was more expensive
Sims Says DeGaulles Trip
Only Created "Good Will
by Liz Seley
Not a great deal came of DeGaulles recent tour of 
South America, Wallace Sims, news editor of the Associated 
Press, stated at the student assembly last week.
He said that DeGaulle faced the^ 
strong influence of United States 
aid, which has helped support 
South American countries. De
Gaulles visit did create a certain 
amount of good will, commented 
Sims. He added that it was un
usual for a foreign leader to go 
to South America.
According to Sims, foreign 
powers usually neglect South 
America because of the instabil
ity that exists in its economic and 
political practices.
He stated that France may 
grant some credit to South Amer
ica. However, the sums are almost 
meaningless compared to United 
States support. French aid would
boys found a group of caroling P 
and Ds and drama students. They 
aimed their snowballs at the sing
ers. Independents from the mens 
I dormitories joined the caroling 
fine arts students.
Finally two factions formed: 
fraternity men on the comer of 
Forbes and Morewood Avenue 
near ATO, and non-fraternity 
men across the street near More
wood Gardens and on the campus 
side of Forbes.
As a bugle blew the men 
charged each other in a flurry of 
flying snow. Pasing trolleys on 
Forbes were also targets for both 
sides. Police cars were hit, and 
Earle Swank, Carnegie Tech dean 
of men, was hit by a snowball.
The fight continued for about 
45 minutes. Morewood residents 
snapped photographs from the 
second floor roof. The fight slowed 
down when campus police and j 
school officials appeared on the 
scene.
than had been imagined, and has 
some bad habits that were not 
discernable from across the At
lantic.
He criticized North Americans 
and Europeans for not paying 
more attention to what happens 
down in South America. He said 
that, these nations are wondered 
at rather than understood, and 
blamed American education and 
training for this attitude.
The attendance was estimated 
at about 50 students and several 
faculty members.
Sims had prefaced his talk with 
the comment that he was to ex
pect a captive audience, refer
ring to a required assembly at
tendance. Since this was not the 
case, he expressed his apprecia
tion to chose who did attend.
Students Present 
Chamber Music
Carnegie Tech music students 
will present a chamber music re
cital tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Exhibition Hall of Fine Arts.
tion.
It was decided that Dean 
George K. Brown, dean of student 
affairs, should complete two sam
ple calendars and submit these to 
the faculty and administrative 
staff for consideration.
One calendar should be of the 
Penn B form and the other of the 
conventional system.
At a mid-January meeting of 
the Calendar Committee, the fac
ulty and student opinions will be 
considered and final recommen
dations will be made to the pres
ident of the school.
Student Congress president, Joe 
Sandulli, General Campus chair
man, Mike Gross, and Student 
Calendar Committee chairman, 
Vernon Leicht were present at the 
meeting with members of the fac
ulty and administration.
Prof To Speak
At IM Meeting
The Industrial Management So
ciety of Carnegie Tech will hold 
its first meeting tonight at 8 p.m. 
at the Sigma Nu fraternity house.
The purpose of the meeting is 
to re-organize the group which 
became defunct last year. The 
highlight of the meeting will be 
an informal lecture by Dr. John 
Farley, professor of marketing, 
on The Distribution of Contra
ceptives in Jamaica.All Carnegie Tech music stu
dents are required to earn per
formance credits by participating All faculty and students of In
in such programs. j dustrial Management and Graph
ics Management Departments prePerformers will be: Bellamy 
Mosher, Claire Johnson, Jusirh 
Qilliamson, Joan Thompson, Ju
dith Cagley, Maurice McCall, Dar
lene Amann, John Prunchak, Rastel Bell, Edith Muskat, Margaret 
Hays, Linda Burian, John Niles, 
Regis Landiorio, Linda Snee, Paul 
Landfeld, Reber Roth, James 
Boston, and Brian Kovadi.
Admission is free.
Enter Buggy
invited to attend.
Check Credentials
Foreign students who plan to 
travel to countries outside of the 
United States are asked to check 
with the Office of the Foreign 
Students Advisor to ensure that 
their credentials are in good or
der for readmission to the United 
States.
a . j * . j a S n S AuditionsAny recognized undergraduate
organization that wishes to en-1 The final auditions for Scotch 
ter a buggy in the 1965 Spring ! n Soda's 1965 production of 
Carnival Sweepstakes should call Whatserface will be December
Roger Powell 681-8356 by Decem
ber 12.
12, 2 to 5 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo,

---------------------------------------------------

IN PERSON
WALNUT STREET 
MU.2-1901
warren \
e@Tp/ x-jeansepere;:
ludto \y
k teW'fA: (S PHW-KMK - A COt PffiWJStS tffl i
T
J PHONE42l-6400\
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
TWO BIG NIGHTS  SAT., DEC. 19 & SUN., DEC. 20 
SYRIA MOSQUE  8:30 P.M.
Due to the unprecedented demand for tickets PETER, PAlE & MARY have 
agreed to stay over and do a second show Sun., Dec. 20 at 8:30. Tickets 
S3.50, $3.50 & $4.50 now on sale for both nights, Sat., Dec. 19 and Sun., 
Dec. 30. at Hornes, Gimbels and Penn-Sheraton Ticket Office, downtown; 
Home Plate Cafe, Oakland. Mail orders to: Shows, Inc., Box 533, Pgh. 30, 
Pa., indicating date desired. Best selection Sunday. Enclose self-addressed stamped envelope.
kPPH WKMher Wt-Serh W-- ^MASTEROFF JERRY BOCK SHELDON HARNICK
4r (Based onPlay by MIKLQS LASZLQ )
Performances Tues. thru Sat. at 8:30; Sunday at 7:30
Special Student Rates . . . $2.0i
Show Your I.D. Card at the Box Office
Woman Desires Typing  exper 
ienced. Call 521-8517 after 5 p.m 
on week-days.The 
most 
loverly 
motion 
picture 
event 
 of all!
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
Come Over and Relax 
Playing Pocket Billiards
 at 
Oakland's Modern 
Pocket Billiard Center
It's
Here
LilDYWILD AS A WA 
RUNAWAY f 
TRAIN! A S LULU! FUN 
FOR FUN S SAKE!
 New York Tfme*
218 Oakland Avenue 
Girls Welcome
Open Daily 11 te 1
A WILD AND WONDERFUL TIME! CONTINUALLY 
HILARIOUS! 
1000 THRILLS 1000!" 
 Tkne Magazine
JEANPAUL BELMONDO 
FRANCOISE DORLEAC 
JEAN SERVAiSASaw toftaducfem
KIM LAURENCE
NOVAK HARVEY
vi cI sFKndsnl KyaouyKwsor Human Bonoace
nmmnWuKM)
STEREOPHONIC SOUND TECHNiCOLffiTSUPER WMIIMM WMH NOS.
...................Kyvt FdEnds iFc,ytt snyls dnsndgnE ...............,
Sq. HIIITheatre, 5824 Forward Ave., Pgh. Pa.. 15217Phone 421-4909 
Prices (tax included) Eve. Perfs. Dec. 23 & 25 SOLD OUT
EVES. (Mon thru Thur)........$2.75 I MATS. (Wed)..............................$2.00
(Fri. Sat. Sun. & Holidays)..$3.00 | (Sat. Sun. & Holidays)..........$2.50
EVES. 8:30 P.M. (SUN. EVES. 8 P.M.) MATS. 2 P.M.
SPECIAL MATINEES DEC. 25 THRU JAN. 1 
(Please Print)NAME..........................................................................................................................
ADDRESS..............................................................................................................................
NO. OF SEATS.... AT $...............MAT. D EVE. D DATE REQUESTED.....................
Please List 3 Alternate Dates 1..........................2............................ 3..........................
Send Check or money order payable to SQ. HILL THEATRE. Enclose Stamped 
self-addressed envelope. For group and party Information, Call 391-4034.TRI-STATE PREMIERE DEC. 23, 1964
SQUIRREL HILL THEATRE
The only theatre in this area that will be showing MY FAIR LADY
PHILIPPE DEBROCA j.p rapeneau-ariane mnouchkine daniel boulanger JZZ* SIMONE RENANT '"S!"*1 ALEXANDRE MNOUCHKtNE-GEORGES OANCtGERSffinmiCttOtt t~  IXXtRT >Cl*tS COfMOMTIO*
NOW!, the wayhome
Fa*e 2  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, Dmmber 9, 1964

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 9, 1964 _ CARNEGIE TEC H TARTAN  Pare *
Honorary Inducts 
12 New Members
Sigma Chapter of Eta Kappa 
Nu, an electrical engineering hon
orary, initiated twelve students 
on November 19.
They are: seniors, Charles
^\bernathy, Thomas Eppinger, 
TL>avid Howarth, Robert McIntosh, 
Richard Morrison, and James 
Santagana; juniors, Lauernce 
Dawson, Emanuel Fulsomer, Wal
ter Haswell, Walter Kennedy, 
John Spare, and David Woolf.
The induction ceremony was 
held jointly with the Beta Delta 
chapter of Pitt in the Heinz 
Chapel.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
125 Bouquet St.
Near Tower Dorms 
Open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Daily
WANTED  EXPERIENCEDSki Instructors
TO TEACH AT
LAUREL MT. SKI AREA 
LIGONIER, PA.
For Information Call
AT 1-5757
^ Exhibits Opens Tomorrow
An exhibit of 140 editions of 
Moores Twas The Night Before 
Christmas, will open tomorrow 
in the Rare Book Room on the 
fourth floor of the Hunt Library.
Among those books to be dis
played will be the 1824 New 
Brunswick Almanac in which the 
poem first appeared. Also on dis
play will be an edition illus
trated by Grandma Moses, and 
^:>ne by Thomas Nast, a famous 
post-Civil War cartoonist.
The display is sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Bibliophiles.
Goldenfelds Market
THE NEAREST TO THE UNIVERSITY
Offers the BEST SELECTION IN
Groceries, Meats, Delicatessen,
Dairy Products, General Merchandise 
and Frozen Foods 
4524 Forbes Avenue (near S. Craig)
Where the Service Is Friendly and Personal
SPECIAL DISCOUNT FOR LARGE PARTIES AND FRATERNITT AFFAIRS
Help Wonted
Student coordinator for scho
lastic employment program. 
Must be about to receive a de
gree in 1965 and in upper fifth 
of class. Requires 3 hours per 
week. Very remunerative posi
tion.
Personnel Director 
General Academic Placement 
101 South Broad Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19107
JOBS?
Are you a senior who can reach your 
classmates? Will you help them ex
pose their talents, training and desires 
to diversified employers throughout 
the nation? Our new and unique com
puter  based service reports quali
fied students to recruiting employers 
- and we need a student agent to 
distribute our forms during early 
December.
Set your own hours. Easy, no 
order-taking, no money handl
ing, no reports  but very 
LUCRATIVE.
For complete information, write im
mediately to Sven B. Karlen. Presi
dent, QED Center Inc., Box 147, 
Bronxville, N.I. 10708.
TYPEWRITER
Sales  Rentals  Repairs
CAMERA EXCHANGE, INC.
3711 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
683-2181
Oaklands Only Camera Store
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD  MAYONNAISE
 RELISH  SAUERKRAUT
 ONION  CHILE
 PICKLE  KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
 MINIMUM ORDER  $tM)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 15c 
WHOLE SHELL S2.00 
------- FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS -------
(MINIMUM ORDER  $2.00)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET621-7388  682-8466
Rea% EtijMj.
-Holiday 
to New Ywfe.
Make it gay, festive and 
enlightening. The William Sloana 
House YMCA helps you do it with 
special holiday programs.
Clean, comfortable and inexpensive 
accommodations for men, women and 
co-ed groups of all sizes.
1,373 single rooms, $3.15 
to $4.50; 120 double rooms,
$4.80 to $5.20.
In the heart of New York and convenient 
to everything.
 Ideal year-round residence and program
^ center for men, women and co-ed groups.
Write Residence Director for Folder
WILLIAM SLOANE 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 West 34th St (nr Ninth Am.)
Ntw York, N. T. Phow: OXtord 5 Sl(One kmPrH From pp station)
. AYWWVYYVYVYV
MAGIC SKIN FOR SPACE METALS
Youve seen an apple turn brown where 
the skin was peeled off. Oxidation is the 
culprit.
Oxidation also attacks and damages 
metal parts in space vehicles and jet 
engines subject to high temperatures.
GT&E scientists tackled this problem, 
and developed a remarkable new coat
ing that beats the heat and oxidation.
It acts as a protective skin similar to the 
apple peel.
Innovations such as this are fostered 
by an extensive research program con
ducted by General Telephone & Elec
tronics Laboratories. And in part are re
sponsible for the dynamic and continued 
growth of GT&E.
If research is one of your goals in life,
you might want to know more about 
General Telephone & Electronics. Full 
information is available from your Cam
pus Placement Director. Or write to 
General Telephone & Electronics Lab
oratories, 730 Third Avenue, New York, 
N.Y. 10017.GEEonindyt lntnuFin b ntnLldFivLsU
Mtm) AVE, N T 1091/  Gf Stt8SW*A*ES fiwwml flphon Cm hi M sum*  6TK UfcnMnet  S wwnwww!  bwier* Tehww ftracwnr C*  Sewc  LMfaR 9Km  too*

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 4  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 9, 1964
Bditoriot
Peripheral Vision1
Carnegie Institute of Technology is often cited as unique 
among universities. Nowhere else are such outstanding cur
ricula in fine arts and engineering and science offered on one 
campus. In Skibo a future Broadway actor crowds in behind 
a potential nuclear physicist. A painter tackles an industrial 
manager in football, cheered on by a bacteriologist and a 
psychology major.
This combination of such diversified fields can mean an 
exciting exchange of ideas, and the Carnegie Technical itself 
is an example of a working interchange of the professional 
fields here. Few of the exchange magazines that cross our 
desk are able to produce a pleasing artistic product with a 
depth and variety of analytical articles. The Technical staff, 
however, blends talents of graphics and English majors, en
gineers and architects. This stimulating mixture of profes
sional personalities is evident in many other campus activi
ties. The Thistle, promising again to capture national year
book honors, and Scotch n Soda, the annual student-pro
duced musical, are just two examples.
This exchange of ideas can do more than merely liberal
ize our education. It can help us to learn a vital professional 
skill  the ability to communicate with those outside our 
fields. And perhaps more important, such interchange can 
give us new perspectives toward problems in our own fields.
However, the situation could be better. Engineering stu
dents pass Fine Arts every day and yet have never been 
inside, never seen a drama department production, never 
visited the Hewlett and Porter exhibits. Similarly, the future 
Dlaywrights, composers, sculptors and architects, whose pro
fessions enable them to hold up a mirror to society, to reflect 
its meaning, often fail to understand some of the major forces 
shaping that society. They cringe at the word computer 
and comprehend only vaguely automation or basic economics.
Moreover, the school administrators often seem to be 
doing little to eliminate these communications barriers. Stu
dents who want to take electives and overloads outside their 
college meet resistance and red tape. Department heads 
dont have enough funds to add extra courses for outside 
students.
The Technical feels that both students and faculty can 
take positive steps to help Carnegies professional atmosnhere avoid stagnation. On the most basic level, the school 
can try to attract the type of freshman who will take advant
age of the schools wide resources and demand even greater 
ones. The students, likewise, should persist in their efforts 
to elect outside resources. Faculty and deans now accept 
Qualified and determined students from other departments. 
Last year, a mechanical engineer took sculpture for his senior 
elective. Three dramats are now invigorating discussion in a 
predominately engineering economics section. If a course 
;snt offered, organize a group petition to the department.
More specifically we would like to see fine arts courses 
in the new humanitites in depth program started last year. 
Presently engineering and science majors have four semesters 
of electives their junior and senior years which enable them 
to specialize in the areas of economics, English, history and 
psychology. We would like to see elective series offered in 
music, history of art and architecture, design, and, if possible, 
oainting, sculpture, and drama. Part of the funds for this pro
gram should be given to Fine Arts to add the necessary 
faculty.
We feel it is possible to offer one course, freshmen or 
sophomore year, for all undergraduates; one similar to His
tory of Arts and Civilization (HAC) might best meet the 
needs of all departments. It could employ an analytical aporoach and supplant Western Civilization. Psychology, econo
mics and literature are other areas of common interest and 
importance. The great advantage of a combined course would 
be intercollege communication; personal friendships and a 
greater appreciation for how the other side' thinks would 
ievelop.Finally, the Technical advocates more and better science 
courses for the Fine Arts students. Presently architects, in
dustrials designers, technical dramats and all education 
majors have science instruction from the Engineering Science 
faculty. These classes can be improved and tailored for the 
special needs of each department. In addition several courses 
should be designed for the non-technical student. One such 
program, the history of science, is being added next year.
It is regrettable that on a campus with such a variety 
of resources, so many students clamp on the blinders of their 
professions in their freshman year, and discover only after 
graduation the need for peripheral vision.
* Reprinted by permission of the Carnegie Technical.
Girls Keep Their Heads 
During Morewood Fire
To
by Marcy Stern
Snubbing Incident To Be 
Carried Around World
Editor, the Tartan:
The letter to the editor by 
George Madaras that you printed 
on November 18 is the type of let
ter one likes to ignore as mis
guided. Nevertheless, Mr. Madaras 
was replied to by three letters 
which built good cases in defense 
of the fraternity system. The 
shame is that these three letters 
were followed by a fourth letter, 
which discussed a completely dif
ferent topic, but which vividly 
questioned the validity of the 
fraternity system.
I refer, of course, to the letter 
by Bruce Carter which you titled 
IM Soccer Game Seen As In
stance of Lost Values.
While a letter from the first 
three was saying a fraternity is 
an ideal, it is a dream, the letter 
by Bruce Carter was saying I 
witnessed on the IM soccer field 
one of the poorest displays of 
sportsmanship which I have seen 
in the past fourteen years as both 
a player and spectator of soccer.
While Michael Malakoff was 
listing as the first of his eight 
points in definition of fraternity 
objectives that living in close 
contact enables one to develop 
more consideration and a better 
understanding of the various 
facets of human relations, Mr. 
Carter was saying tripping, clip
ping, shoving, and punching on 
the part of the American team 
soon resulted in several rather 
bloodied International Club play
ers.
In step six of his defense of 
fraternities, Mr. Malakoff men
tions that fraternities are a cen
ter of athletics . . . He clinches 
his argument with a final by de
veloping those qualities of human 
understanding of companionship, 
of kindness, fraternity men are 
better able to appraise the basic 
values of life which lead to good 
citizenship. Bruce Carter, mean
while, has concluded his letter 
with the seemingly isolated in
cident of the soccer game remind
ed me again that we do not have 
to go overseas to find the Ugly 
American . . .
With the above contradictions 
staring me in the face with the 
obvious conclusion demanding to 
be drawn, I still cannot stand my
self with the small anti-fraternity 
faction.
Like Bruce Carter, I believe 
that the unfortunate soccer game 
was a mistake  an isolated inci
dent, an exception to the rule. I 
vehemently protest that the game 
happened, of course, and I find 
that my protest is echoed. Amer
ica is a good land and her people 
are good people; it is surprising to 
find how many of the American 
people seem to despise those fel
low Americans who tear down 
the good.
Its a shame that the Lost Value 
Soccer Game occurred under the 
circumstances that it did; and it 
could have happened anywhere. 
But it did occur and it happened 
here. It was bad enough, appar
ently, that the International Club 
players refused the post-game 
courtesy of shaking hands with 
their opponents. Such a reaction 
strongly suggests that this single 
isolated incident will be carried 
into homes around the world. An 
insult such as these men suffered 
is not easly forgotten.
Isnt some sort of apology in 
order?
Chase T. Springer 
Senior, Mech E
%
Thank goodness for the relief of winter.
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Michael W. Vargo
The Carnegie Tech Tartan
A fire was discovered at 
nesday afternoon.
A hot plate in the 6D utility 
room ignited stacked newspapers. 
The resulting flames demolished 
several cabinet doors, a portable 
radio and numerous pairs of 
stockings left hanging in the vi
cinity.
June Golub, sophomore drama 
student, was on the house phone 
at the time. She recalls talking 
and watching the smoke billow
Morewood Gardens last Wedfrom the lounge and utility room 
j area. June interrupted her con
versation, Sorry I have to go. 
; Theres a fire here, and searched 
for the source of the smoke.
Finding it in the utility room, 
she immediately threw buckets of 
cold water on the hot plate, hop
ing to extenguish the fire.
Meanwhile, Carla Joseph, soph
omore playwright, calmed girls
who were screaming Fire, fire! 
out the windows and reported 
We kept our heads.
During the commotion someone 
reported the fire to Mrs. Craig at 
the main desk, who called the 
campus Security Office. Within 
minites two hook and ladder fire 
engines appeared in Morewoods 
driveway.
Though June had put out the 
blaze, the Pittsburgh Fire Chief 
questioned the 6D girls about the 
cause of the blaze.
According to the girls, the chief 
appeared Considerably more 
amused than upset.
Editor-In-Chief ....................................................................Nancy Cameron
Business Manager .........................................................................Eric Feldmann
Desk Editor ......................................................................................Evan Melhade
News Editor ......................................................................................Sue Attinson
Sports Editor .............................................................................William Hartlep
Photography Editor ..................................................................Martin Shenker
Layout Editor ..................................................................................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor ......................................................................................Claire Dzatko
Advertising Manager...................................................................Richard Sextro
National Advertising Manager ..................................................Virginia Salko
Secretarial Editor ............................................................................Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor ..............................................................................Marty Kline
Advisory Board  Marcia Avner, Dale Chodorow.
Secretarial Staff  Linda Ames, Judith Birkin, Jane Crout, Christy Dinwiddie, 
Lesley France, Marcia Grata, Fran Harkins, Pat Hartman, Marlene Kostek, Jan 
Senchak, Mary Stoll, Gail Whiteman.
Copy Staff  Nancy Barron, Helen Beatty, Linda Ferris, Elaine Katsilas, Pam 
Merrill, Verna Ream,. Paulette Zdrojkowski, Marilyn Sayre, Judy Brincko. 
Circulation Staff  Pam Reducha, Ruth Steiger, Lynn Sterman, Marina Straeb, 
Leta Rubin.
Business Staff: Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Carol Joflfe, Margot Allensworth, 
Carol Teaman, Barbara Zeitz, Bernard Dobroski.
Layout Staff  David Klein, Mark Labovitz, Ted Pierce, Dave Howarth.
Sports Staff  Ron Bidula, Chris Macosko, Scott McCormick, Bob Rosen, A1 
Green, Tom Terpack, Mimi Eaken.
Annual Subscription Rate Sis.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
m
Drama
?University Theatre, Reynard the Fox, tomorrow and 
Friday, 8:30 p.m., Saturday, 2:30 and 8:30 p.m.
Stephen Foster Memorial Auditorium, Forbes Avenue.
Duquesne University Red Masquers, A Streetcar Named 
Desire, today through Sunday, 8:30 p.m., Duquesne 
Campus Theatre.
Exhibits
The 1964 Pittsburgh International, daily 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
and Sundays 2 to 5 p.m., Carnegie Museum.
Prints by junior P and D, Mary Lois Christensen,
Lutheran University Center library and lounge, 4515 
Forbes Avenue.
Movies
?Film Arts Society, The Circus and The Pilgrim, to
morrow, 4:30, 7, and 9:30 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
*Y Friday Cine Series, The Mukkinese Battle Horn 
and Broth of a Boy, Friday, 8 and 10 p.m., Porter 
Hall 100.
Music
Chamber music recital by Carnegie Tech music students, 
tomorrow, 8:30 p.m., Exhibition Hall, College of Fine 
Arts.
?YM&WHA Musical Society presents Toby Saks, cellist, 
tonight, 8:40 p.m., YM&WHA, 315 South Bellefield 
Avenue.
?Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra with mezzo-soprano 
Irina Arkhipova, Friday, 8:40 p.m. and Sunday, 3:10 
p.m., Syria Mosque.
*Pitt Marching Band Annual Stadium Review, Friday, 
8:15 p.m., Carnegie Institute Music Hall.
Christmas carol festival, Sunday, 2:30 and 4:30 p.m., 
Carnegie Institute Music Hall.
?Admission charged.
>
\>

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. December 9. 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
Alumnus Of The Week
Dr. R. J. Wean, Tech Trustee, 
Directs Many Tri-State Firms
by Howard Weiss
Dr. Raymond J. Wean, founder and president of Wean 
Engineering Company, Inc, is a 1917 graduate of Carnegie
Tech. ?-----------------------------------------------
Active in many fields, Dr. Wean 
is now a trustee of Carnegie Tech,
Trinity College, Youngstown Uni
versity, and the University School 
in Cleveland.
In addition to being president 
of Wean Engineering, he is a di
rector of several other firms.
Among these are the Erie-Lackawanna Railroad, the Union Com~*nerce Bank of Cleveland, the 
v Warren, Ohio, Telephone Com
pany and the Cleveland-Cliffs 
Iron Company.
Dr. Wean is a member of nu
merous technical societies and 
civic organizations, including the 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers, and the United States 
Chamber of Commerce. He is also 
an alumnus of Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity.
Dr. Wean has received honor
ary degrees in both sciences and 
humanities from Trinity College 
and Youngstown University.
He was given the Award of 
Merit from the Carnegie Tech 
Alumni Federation in 1958.
Chad Mitchell Trio Selected 
For Spring Carnival Concert
by Liz Seley and Candy Etkin
Student Congress announced at its December 2 meeting 
that the Chad Mitchell Trio was chosen for the Friday night 
concert of Spring Carnival weekend.
Bo Diddley and his band will*' 
provide the music for the SaturDr. Wean
1958 CIT Award Winner
Management Conference
A conference discussing the 
application of new management 
science techniques to complex 
decision making will be held on 
campus tomorrow and Friday.
More than 75 executives in the 
fields of operations planning, mar
keting, and research will attend 
the sessions in GSIA.
John Smolensk!, who earned a 
masters degree in Industrial Ad
ministration at Carnegie Tech in 
1964 will be among the confer
ence participants.
Prints On Display
An exhibition of prints by 
Mary Lois Christensen, junior 
P and D, is now being presented 
in the library and lounge of the 
Lutheran University Center at 
4514 Forbes Avenue.
M & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED  NEW MODERN 
QUARTERS  ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
Cancel your pressing engagements!
Bono ancee
SLcL
I9FARAH
day afternoon block party, along 
with other dance bands. Two 
bands will be selected for the 
Saturday night dance. Tickets 
will go on sale March 1.
<' Congress also considered sev
eral other proposals.
The Calendar Committee is 
presently deliberating the possi
bility of a change in the school 
calendar with the administration.
It was announced by the Li
brary Committee that a trial per
iod of extended hours will be set 
up by the library staff.
A new extended proposal for 
_the eligibility of candidates for 
"jongress Chairman was passed. 
Voting members of Congress and 
committee chairmen who have 
served at least one term are now 
eligible for the position.
Unused rooms in the basement 
of Skibo will now be available 
from 4:30 to 10:45 p.m. to student 
groups and organizations. Rooms 
will be used on a first come  
first served basis. 
L Three new activities were ac
cepted for a one-year trial period. 
Information will be distributed 
about them. They are the Terpsichorean Society, a modern 
dance club, the American Field 
Service Club, and the Sky Diving 
Club.
Wins First Prize
Stephen H. Yafa, graduate dra
ma student, won first prize in the 
^nnual Writers Guild of America 
screen branch writing contest.
Yafas script netted him a $1,000 
award at a special presentation 
ceremony iu Los Angeles Novem
ber 24. The script, entitled Paston Quigleys Had the Course, 
is a comedy about a college casanova.
A 1963 graduate of Dartmouth 
College, Yafa is attending Car
negie Tech on a Shubert Play^vriting Fellowship.
SENIORS:
Last 
Three Days 
For Senior 
Portraits
Hurry to Skibo, Room 46. 
After Friday it will be im
possible to have senior, 
fraternity, or sorority por
traits taken.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
PHYSICISTS
MATHEMATICIANS
Technical representatives 
of The MITRE Corporation 
will be conducting interviews 
on campus
January 11, 1965
MITRE is chief technical advisor and systems engineer to the Air 
Force Electronic Systems Division of the Air Force Systems 
Command. In this capacity, we design and develop such global, 
computer-based systems as the NORAD Combat Operations 
Center, Back-Up Interceptor Control System, and the Nuclear 
Detonation Detection and Reporting System. Other commitments: 
development of a future air traffic control system and supporting 
the Defense Communications Agency in the development of the 
National Military Command System.
For the young systems engineer, this is uniquely rewarding work. 
You associate with the top men in your field. You work in an 
atmosphere that allows you to extend your capabilities profession
ally and academically.
At MITRE, men trained in single disciplines are encouraged to 
grow beyond their original fields of interest. Systems designers learn 
to work from an increasingly broad base.
You may work in such diverse areas as information theory, com
puter design, display techniques, propagation, or human engineer
ing. You may analyze. You may synthesize. You may deal with 
systems or individual components. At the highest levels, you may 
have to consider political, economic and social factors ... as well as 
the available and predictable technology.
Requirements: M.S., or Ph.D. in these disciplines  electronics, 
physics, mathematics. MITRE is located in pleasant, suburban 
Boston and also has facilities in Washington, D. C. and Colorado 
Springs. If an interview will be inconvenient, inquiries may be 
directed in confidence to Vice President  Technical Operations,
The MITRE Corporation, Box 208, Dept. CNP, Bedford, Mass. 
ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
THE IMITRE
CORPORATION
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Pioneer in the design and development of command and control 
systems, MITRE was chartered in 1958 to serve only the United 
State Government. An independent nonprofit corporation, 
MITRE is technical advisor and systems engineer for the Elec
tronic Systems Division of the Air Force Systems Command, and 
also serves the Department of Defense, and the Federal Aviation 
Agency.
Ncvcn Nccd Inoning
They're ironing while 
theyre drying'
Styled-right
FaraPress*
Slacks
Never Wrinkle 
Wont Wilt or Muss 
Creases are Permanent 
Colors are Fast 
Feature Finest Fabrics 
Wear Longer and 
Stay New Looking
Just washem,
They Press 
Themselves
FARAH MANUFACTURING CO., INC. EL PASO, TEXAS

---------------------------------------------------

Pag S  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN
full of surprises this year. Neither 
first-seeded TDP, nor secondseeded PKA made it into the 
playoffs as PKT and BSR moved 
up to gain the honors. Both have 
identical 4-0 records, and Mon
days game between them will 
settle the first and second place 
finishes.
Finally, in the Pass League, a 
few eyebrows were raised as 
the Grad Nads put on a strong 
finish to take the tfcird and de
ciding game from SAE A ia 
the match, but this loss will prob
ably have little effect on SAEs 
championship hopes. The Grads 
will now finish with a 5-0 rec
ord, but SAE still can claim a 
playoff berth by defeating under
dog Kappa Sigma on Tuesday.
SAE Favored 
In Volleyball 
Championship
Tomorrow evening the playoffs 
in I.M. volleyball begin with 
the favorite role going to SAE. 
GSIA and the Grad Nads retain 
an outside chance of finishing on 
top. but it looks like the well 
rounded combination of Gam
mon. Regan, McClure, etc., which 
SAE presents, has the momentum 
to go all the way.
The Set League is the only one 
in which no clear cut winner has 
been determined. SAE B re
mains undefeated, but still faces 
a stiff test from a formidable 
ATO aggregation. Should ATO 
win, the league will result in a 
three way tie for first place with 
BTP A the third member. How
ever. an SAE victory will give 
them outright possession of first 
place with the Betas moving into 
the runner-up spot.
In the Serve League GSIA and 
the Fern Docs appear to be head
ing for identical 4-1 records, and 
the possibility of a play-off game 
between them for first and sec
ond place in that league.
The Spike League seems to be
REPOR'T c 
fHk Ll* k 
GINGER
Rev. Bucholz Appointed
The Reverend Rogene Bucholz, 
Methodist Chaplain at Carnegie 
Tech and Chatham, has recently 
been appointed associate director 
of the Methodist Wesley Founda
tion on the Pitt-Camegie TechChatham campuses.
Rev. Bucholz worked as a com
puter programmer for several 
years before entering the min
istry. He is a recent graduate of 
Parkins School of Theology, 
Southern Methodist University, 
Dallas.
on Book Reports... 
Themes ,. .Term 
Papers... Science
Campaign Ends
DECEMBER 11
Get your FREE / 
sample at
the Book Store... 4 
while they last!
(hurry... hurry.. .hurry)
ALL-STAR SPECIAL 
Multilaminated 
European Skis with 
Steel Edges and 
Dependable 
Release Bindings$24.90
Comp. Value $35.00
PRESTYPE COLLEGE EDITION/136 W. 21 St, N# York, N.Y. 10011
FOR THE FINEST 
f I/I Equipment ill I Apparel ^*1 itentals
SCHUSS TO
ALL 31AK JKUKlmU drop in
GOODS CO. BROWSEAROUND1316 5th Ave. 281-5275
Talk Over Your Skiing: Needs With Our Expert Staff
OPEN FRIDAY NIGHT TIL 9
Pittsburgh9s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
unusual one year program
JUNIOR YEAH 
, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Three undergraduate colleges offer students from all parts of 
the United States an opportunity to spend their junior year in 
the stimulating environment of the Universitys Washington 
Square Center. Small classes; new residence halls.
Program open to students who are recommended by the deans 
of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees.
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
School of Commerce School of EducationPENNSYLVANIA
Butler, Milo Williams Jewelers
Grove City, Royal Jewelers
Indiana, Luxenberg Jewelers
Johnstown, Laws Jewelery
New Castle. Fletcher Jewelry
Pittsburgh, Grau JewelersBellevue
Pittsburgh, John M. Roberts &
Sons  3 stores
Sharon, Wengglers
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
Director, Junior Year in New York
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY Jf?|
Room 906-C Main Building, Washington Square, K.T., N.Y. 10003
Gtedr Sir: fAi -4Please send me the brochure JUNIOR YEAR IN ^ ^
NEW YORK and the catalog for
0 Washington Square College of Art* and Scienc*
Q School of Commerce D School of Educate
1 am also interested in ? Junior Year In Spain
Q Junior Year in Brazil ? Sunrise Semester
WEST VIRGINIA
Wheeling, Posins Jeweler*
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN 
East Hills Shopping Center 
731 Washington Road, Mt. Lebanon
MINNESOTA
Erie. Richard F. Mozur

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 9, 194  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Face 7
Tartans Outswim West Virginia; 
Cotsworth Leads Tech Attack
by Bill Hartlep
Sparked by two first places by sophomore Bill Cotsworth, 
the Tartan swimming team soundly trounced once powerful 
West Virginia last Saturday, 63-31.
Cotsworth won the 200 yard4
individual medley with a time of Techs next home
2:28.2, only 2 tenths of a second 
off the school record. Bill then 
came back to win the grueling 
500 yard free style with a re
spectable time of 6:17.2.
The Tartans took the lead after 
the first event and held it 
throughout the meet, capturing 
seven first places and three firstsecond sweeps.
Techs first one-two finish came 
in diving with Tartans Bennett 
and Zimmerman taking the hon
ors. Two events later Hough and 
Hutter churned to Techs second 
sweep in the 100 yard free style, 
finishing within 1 tenth of a sec
ond of each other with mutual 
times of :55.8.
For the first time in many 
seasons Tech proved to be 
powerful in both relays. Kiefer, 
Specht, Burdett, and Hough 
captured the medley relay, and 
Ferry, Yehr, Hough and Hutter 
won the freestyle relay.
High scorers for Tech were 
Cotsworth with 10 points, Hough 
with 9:5, and Huter with 7:75. 
Phil Minnes led the West Virginia 
squad with firsts in the 200 yard 
free style and the 200 yard but
terfly for 10 points.
This Saturday, the Tartans 
travel to Westminster, boasting a 
formidable host of freshmen stars. 
Hough, Perry, Yahr, Berman, 
Prado, Rose, and Orringer have 
handily filled the gap left by 
Geary Andrews and Frank Wy
man. The return of these two 
after mid-term grades combined 
with Techs present line-up will 
form a fearsome foe for the Tar
tans last seven opponents.
meet
against Fenn on Saturday, Feb. 6.
WAA Sports 
Two Volleyball 
Victories
The Womens Athletic Associa
tions volleyball team after los
ing two matches with California 
State Teachers College and West
minster at last has proven vic
torious.
Fresh from a relaxing vaca
tion, the team met Indiana State 
Teachers College on Tuesday, De
cember 1. Losing the first game 
did not daunt the spirits of the 
team as they went on to win the 
match in the next two games. 
In the game of the second match, 
Indiana tied Tech 15-15 in the 
last minute of the game. With 
a final team effort, Tech took 
the next two points and won 
the match.
Saturday, December 5 again 
saw Skibo Gym the scene of ac
tion, this time between Tech and 
Seton Hill. The first match Tech 
on 2 out of 3 games. The sec
ond match proved to be easy as 
Teeh took the first two games 
15-5 and 15-9.
The girls playing against Seton 
Hill were: Barb Brown, man
ager; Barb Butler, Elaine Bykowski, Karen Frankel, Carol Kurtz, 
Jean Melaney, Betsy Rush and 
Ruth Steiger.
The final playing date is a 
sports day at Slippery Rock on 
December 12. With team spirit 
high and a string of victories, the 
team should again prove victor
ious.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Correct
ed.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Statistics
400-yards medley relayTech (Kiefer. 
Specht, Burdett, Hough). Time4:23.2.
200-yards free styleWon by Minnes, 
WVU: 2. Perry, Tech; 3, Rose, Tech.
Time2:11.7.
50-yards free styleWon by Brace, 
WVU; 2, Hutter, Tech; 3, Yahr, Tech. 
Time:24.4.
200-yards individual medleyWon by 
Cotsworth. Tech: 2, Hushla, WVU; 3,
Hazlett, WVU. Time2:28.2.
DivingWon by Bennett, Tech; 2. 
Zimerman, Tech; 3, Zitzmann, WVU. 
Points, 149.8.
200-yards butterfly  Won by Minnes. 
WVU; 2, Burdett, Tech; 3, Orringer. 
Tech. Time2:32.7.
100-yards free styleWon by Hough, 
Tech; 2, Hutter, Tech; 3, Brace, WVU. 
Time:55.8.
200-yards backstrokeWon by Hush
la, WVU: 2, Kiefer, Tech; 3, Meiser.
WVU. Time2:30.0.
500-yards free styleWon by Cots
worth, Tech: 2. Berman. Tech; 3. Hackett, WVU. Time6:17.2.
200-yards breast strokeWon by 
Specht, Tech; 2, Hazlett, WVU; 3, Eas
ley, Tech. Time2:43.9.
400-yards free style relayWon by 
Tech (Perry, Yahr, Hough, Hutter). 
Time3:47.1.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AYE.
Civic Center 
Honda
XMAS SPECIAL
HONDA LOWER PRICES 
ON 50cc - TO $245.
complete
Best buys on accessories 
Oakland  Center at Craig: 
681-9935
Exciting
New
Designs
Campus - FavoredW ALLY'S
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave.U. S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)
DIAMONDRINGS
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant 
fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond en
gagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of 
design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty 
of the center diamond... a perfect gem of flaw
less clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.
The name, Keepsake, in the ring and on the 
tag is your assurance of fine quality and lasting 
satisfaction. Your very personal Keepsake is 
awaiting your selection at your 
Keepsake Jewelers store. Find 
him in the yellow pages under 
Jewelers. Prices from $100 
to $2500. Rings enlarged to 
show beauty of detail .^Trade
mark registered.
KOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING
Please send new 20-poge booklet, How To Plan 
Your Engagement and Wedding" and new 12-page 
full color folder, both for only 25tf. Also, send 
special offer of beautiful 44-poge Bride's Book.
NomePP ? f Good Housekeeping^ 
1*^
AddressCo__Sfote_
_KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS. SYRACUSE, N. Y. 13202
TRY THE
MOONLIGHT BOWL
Bowl all you wish from 12 midnight till daylight 
for only $2. Special group rates also available. 
Open 24 hours everyday.
THE NEW MIRACLE LANES
Monroeville
Wm. Penn. Hwy.372 3500
I. Check and mate. How about 
another game?
Id like to, Fred, but 
I have to get set for 
a job interview.
2. Lets act it out. Ill be 
the boss. Try and sell me.
Okay.
S. Good morning, Mr. Fish wick.* 4. Just give me the facts."
Hi there, Freddie boy, 
buddy, old pal.
Well, sir, I took Quine* 
course in mathematical 
logic, got a B in 
Wittgensteins linguistic 
analysis, and Im a 
bug on 18th-century 
Flemish painting.
5. "You seem well rounded. 
Whats your major?
Musicology, cum iaude. 
But Im getting my M.A. 
in experimental psy ch.
6. Youre just the kind of man we 
needa disciplined thinker who 
can tie a lot of things together 
and use logic to solve complex 
business problems. The M.A. 
helps, too. Systems engineering 
or operations research work 
at Equitable is for vou.
Say, howd you know 
Im interviewing 
with Equitable?
it Equitable3. Mana
see
ier,
For complete information about career opportunities 
your Placement Officer, or write to Edward D. McE 
Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United states
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 C1064 An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Pag 8  CARNEGIE TECJH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 9, 1964
ftCdlSTEftEO T*AOe-MA*SCf 
COCA-COLA COM PAM
Tartans Lose First Three;
Look For Comeback This Week
Tartan Photo by Fred Maize
Jump ball during Teeh-Westminster game.
by Tom Terpack
A new collegiate basketball rule this year states that 
the coach must remain in his seat and refrain from any 
display of emotion during a game. CIT coach Mel Cratsley
will have to procure a seat-belt#--------------------------------------------------------
to obey thus rule if the Tartans 
go through the whole season the 
way they went thi'ough the first 
three games.
Tech dropped its first three
games, but after last Saturday 
night, things are looking much 
brighter for the rest of the sea
son. After losing the opener to 
big-time Pitt, Tech managed to 
blow a game to W&J and then 
turn around an almost upset 
highly-touted Westminister.
Against Pitt, before a quiet 
throng of 648 fans, the Tartans 
played on even terms for the first 
ten minutes of the game, holding 
a 16-13 lead with 9:02 remaining 
in the first half. At this point, 
however, Pitts Larry Szykowny 
hit for a basket and Brian Fisher 
dropped in two from the foul line 
to give the Panthers a lead which 
they never relinquished.
Tech managed only eight more 
coints in the first half while Pitt
ly mystified Tech. It took eight 
minutes for the mystery to wear 
off, eight minutes during which 
Tech scored no points, Kalin 
and McGeary fouled out, and 
W'&J built up a 56-46 lead. The 
Prexies held on to hand Tech 
its second defeat in two nights, 
62-51.
An overflow crowd jammed 
Skibo gym Saturday night to see 
the powerful Westminster Titans 
take on CIT. It has been eight 
years since Tech has beaten the 
Titans, and some people were go
ing as far as to predict a shut-out. 
Westminster, doing its part, jump
ed into a quick 6-0 lead before 
Hank Werronen could give CIT its 
first point on a foul shot.
Someone, however, had failed 
to inform Tech of the pre-arrang
ed script. Forgetting that they 
were tremendous under-dogs, 
Pete Riccardella and Jeff Kalin 
each popped in two baskets along 
with one by Chet Reft, and. beupped the score to 39-24. The fore you could say upset, the 
second half saw Techs shooting * Tartans held an 11-10 lead, 
go cold for a few minutes, enThe Tartans, urged on bv a notough time for Pitt to pull into a j so-highly partisan crowd and led 
commanding 6!-30 lead. The final by Hank Werornen, played delibportion of the game saw Jeff erate offense and tight defense 
Kalin hitting for fourteen points,; with a man-to-man and surged to 
but there was little doubt as to a J7_i2 lead. Westminster coach 
the outcome of the game, and Pitt Buzz Ridl sent freshman Mike
into the game, 
responded with
and
six
won easily, 83-52. Drespling
The following night, the TarDrespling 
tans opened their home schedule j points to lead Westminster to a 21- 
meeting the Presidents of W&J.1 19 lead. Hank Werronen. playing 
With Don Smith scoring five ! perhaps the best game of his capoints, W&J jumped off to a quick reer, came back with a basket 
7-1 lead. Faced with this six point j to tie it up. The lead traded hands 
deficit, Tech, led by Hank Werthree times until Jim Newell
ronen, fought back to a 17-16 lead 
with 9:50 remaining in the first 
half. The remainder of the first
pumped one in to give Tech a 25- 
24 edge. Werronen added two 
quick ones, and Tech went into
half saw the lead change hands i the locker-room with a 29-26 lead, 
seven times, with W&J going into 1 In the second half, Tech, aided 
the locker room with a 36-34 lead. ! by six points from Jeff Kalin,
j hung on to a 36-32 lead. Dixie 
Tech came back early in the Rowlands, Westminster star viosecond half to tie the score 38-38. j lently protesting a foul called 
Unfortunately, with seventeen on his person, irked the referee 
minutes left, Techs Pete Riccarenough to have him add a techdella picked up his fifth personal, njcai Don Keefer then proceeded 
necessitating his departure from j calmly drop two foul shots in, 
the game. W&J moved into a 43-42 I an(j Tech led 38-32
combination of superb , was , 'tWs t ^ , Bcb
,U-handlmg two foul shots by 0ravetz of Westminster acquired Kalin and a basket by George Me1 
Geary put the Tartans into a 46- 
43 lead with ten minutes left in 
the game
Behind by three. W&J threw 
up a zone defense that seeming -
a hot hand and, with eight points, 
sent the Titans into a 42-41 lead 
with 9:24 remaining. Westminster 
and Tech proceeded to trade points 
in a cautious manner. With 4:00 
left in the game and the score
i 49-47 for Westminster, Jeff Kalin 
took a rebound off the Titans 
backboard, and passed downcourt 
to Werronen. Hank raced in under 
the basket and put the ball up . . . 
only to have it wedge between the 
board and the rim.
Had Tech made this basket, 
the complexion of the game 
might have been a little differrent. The situation called for a 
jump ball and Westminster, 
with superior height, controlled 
the jump. Rowlands then drop
ped in two for the Titans with 
McGeary on a tip from Kalin, 
countering for Tech.
Total . 3 161 61 46 30 95 50 152
Opposition 3 189 75 67 50 141 42 200QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMP AN T 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
When Bob Goalby
With a two point lead, the 
Titans went into a freeze. Tech, 
going for the ball, had to foul, and 
Westminster calmly dropped in 
the foul shots, finishing with a 55- 
49 victory.
Lifes a picnic when youre refreshed. 
Coca-Cola, with its cold crisp taste,
Even in defeat the Tartans play
ed a tremendous game. Playing 
this caliber ball, CIT should begin 
to perk up and have a good sea
son. The next two games are 
away, against Grove City and 
Waynesburg, and the Tartans 
should have a 2-3 record after 
these games.
Season Statistics
Kalin34820106401246Werronen339138412530Keefer3136647416Reft31755310613Newell3114550113Riccardella32091061118McGeary374756613Burdette23021601Metz22022742Eckhardt11000110
Chap Stick goes along!
When I get a break from the tournament tour,* 
says this leading golf pro, "I love to go up north 
to hunt. But the change in climate sure raises 
Cain with my lips.They used to get annoyingly dry
A favorite
in Canada
even cracked.Then our guide tipped me off to 
Chap Stick. It makes sore lips feel good instantly, 
helps heal them fast. Now whether Im out with 
my 12-gauge or my 5 iron, I carry Chap Stick.*
The lip balm selected 
for use by the 
U. S. Olympic Team.
DONT LET DRY, SORE LIPS SPOIL YOUR FUN-WHEREVER YOU GO, GO WITH CHAP STICK*
CHAP {TICK* IS *EG. TM IH4 MOMON MFC. CQKK, kVNCHIVR9, V*.
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company byt
is always just right, 
never too sweet... refreshes best.
things gOWCRRCSIA
^withCoke
