The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 10, November 16, 1982.
Administrators talk 
about 19% tuition hike
By PAULINE WEN
I Tartan StaffwrUer
Why are we coming up short? Where is 
Jthe money going to? asked Student 
iGovemment President Nate Solano at the 
[Tuition Forum held last Thursday in Gregg 
Hall. This was one of the questions asked byt
ix of about ninety students that attended 
he forum. First, however, the four adminis
trators had speeches to give themselves.
Brad Walter, acting dean of Student 
 1  opened with a short speech. After 
finished his introductory speech, 
President Richard Cyert spoke about 
of the University and about the 
He was followed by Fred Rogers, 
president of finanace, who showed 
of the past and present budgets, the 
account, budget estimates, and tuii comparisons with other schools. AltoCyert and Rogers showed about five 
ten slides, all listing various figures.
The slide of comparisons with other 
compared tuitions and their rates of 
with that of CMU. We looked at 
people went to CMU instead 
f, said Rogers. The list included Yale,
Princeton, MIT, Penn, Brown, Cornell, 
Case Western, Lehigh, Columbia, RPI, and 
Stanford.
Following Cyert and Rogers, Provost 
Richard Van Horn showed a chart of salary 
comparisons with these schools. The 
faculty determines the quality of the 
school, said Van Horn. You share our 
desire, I believe, to have high quality 
faculty, he added.
After Van Horns brief speech came the 
question-answer period. Throughout, the 
tone was calm, with Cyert making light
hearted remarks. When asked if tuition was 
raised to put money into computers, Rogers 
said it was an unfortunate coincidence of 
events.
One students asked, How can you justify 
continued on page 6
Last week Delta Gamma sponsored a beautiful eyes contest Proceeds went to the blind. 
The winners were Garfield, Heather Newton, and Nancy Baird
Cathie: draft question premature
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffzvriter
Last month President Reagan signed a 
bill requiring that all male college students
las leak found near CFA
y KAREN TYLAK
orton Stoffwriter
At 2:30 p.m. November 11, the Fine Arts 
uilding was evacuated following the detecon of a gas-type odor in parts of the
uilding.
Students and faculty were allowed to re
nter the building after building checks by 
\ie Pittsburgh Fire Department and Peoles Natural Gas Company showed nega
te gas readings.
As a result of the evacuation, registration 
ar Fine Arts students was delayed to 
Jovember 12.
Later the same day, a CMU plumber,
___1J m i t ^ i*
that a gas leak had been detected outside the 
Fine Arts Building near the parking lot. A 
check by Peoples Natural Gas found the 
leak to be between the cement steps leading 
from the parking area to an area several feet 
down the cut toward Doherty Hall.
The gas company representative, Chris 
Hummel, told campus officials that either 
the gas would have to be shut off or the area 
dug up and vented.
It was decided that the area would be dug 
up as a gas shut down would affect the 
emergency generators in Fine Arts, Doherty 
Hall and Hunt Library and the glass blowinnfiimorpc in IViliprfu Hall
who are eligible for the draft but have failed 
to register to be denied federal aid. The 
law will go into effect July first.
According to Financial Aid Director Wal
ter Cathie, CMU has got to follow (the new 
policy). However, he noted, the govern
ment has not yet come up with a vehicle to 
enforce it.
If no vehicle is produced, Cathie said, he 
will take the students word for whether or 
not he has registered. Unless the govern
ment forces us, were not going to play 
policeman, he said.
According to Cathie, all federal programs 
will be affected by the policy, including stu
dent and parent loans, work-study, the Sup
plemental Educational Opportunity Grant, 
and the PELL Grant. He added the the 
average student on financial aid receives 
$4000 in federal .aid.
The question which must be addressed in 
the future, said Cathie, is that should such a 
student be refused federal aid, whether or 
not CMU should make up the difference. 
For the present, he noted, that question is 
premature.
Although the government has not yet 
announced a method of enforcing the new 
law, according to Cathie, he predicted that
they will use a computerized approach 
called tape exchange. Using this tech
nique, the government will compile a list of 
all the males in the country who have not 
registered, and check their social security 
numbers against another list of male college 
students who applied for the PELL Grant.
Cathie expressed his opposition to the 
new policy, asserting that it denies the stu
dent an education without allowing the 
guilty due process of the law. The student 
would be declared guilty of not registering, 
he said, without going through any judicial 
procedure. Alse, he noted, the Constitution 
allows men the right to object to the draft on 
religious grounds, which the new law does 
not address.
According to Cathie, the law will have no 
effect for the Spring semester, and also will 
not appear on next years financial aid 
application. In a memo to President Cyert, 
Cathie concluded, At this time, I favor not 
requiring any question on the CMU appli
cation to determine whether a male student 
has complied with the Military Selective Ser
vice Act (MSSA). Ultimately, we may be 
forced to make this part of our institutional 
application.
Senate says TA's need help
photo Dy rauime ivranKT dim juuu \_^fuuiic
approximately one oclock last Tuesday morning, Pittsburgh was still shining brightly. 
us Edition, in which the Steel City annually lights up for a night, was interrupted for 
v<*rs due to the energy crisis.
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Last week Student Senate passed two reso
lutions concerning the quality of teaching 
assistants.
The first resolution states that all teaching 
assistants should be required to attend train
ing workshops sponsored by the university. 
These workshops exist now but are 
optional, said Academic Affairs Chairman 
John Snyder. In addition, the resolution 
requires the university to provide training 
for TAs or professors with language or 
other communication problems.
The second resolution states that TAs 
must be graduate students or juniors or 
seniors who have completed the course to be 
taught plus one higher level course. Some 
students have complained that their TAs 
have not even taken the courses they teach.
Snyder said that these resolutions will be 
passed on to the Faculty Senate for
consideration.
Both resolutions were sponsored by the 
Academic Affairs Committee.
In this issue
Editorial
Chasing windmills ..........................2
News
Fischer on The Soviet Threat... page fi Features
Review of Nuclear Convocation .. page 9 Entertainment
Billy Joel in concert ......................page 15Sports
Hockey wins two............................pag**
Special section
Senate candidates platforms . pages 128c 13

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Political trends: Left, Right, or just "sheep leaps?"
Last spring when the editor of The 
Nation spoke to members of The Tartan 
and other college newspapers at the Pa. 
College Press Association conference, he 
suggested that college editors consider 
starting conservative publications on 
campus. We laughed it off, but were 
suprised to find that other colleges had 
already jumped on the conservative 
newspaper wagon.
Time magazine recently examined the 
conservative phenomenon on American 
campuses. Princetons Madison Report, 
The Dartmouth Review, and The Stan
ford Review were spotlighted as three of 
the many reactionary publications which 
have sprung up in the last three years.
Other members present on the Buckley 
bandwagon included Northwestern, 
Harvard, and Yale  that wonderful list 
of Ivy League institutions to which Presi
dent Cyert, hammer in hand, keeps trying 
to tack CMUs name. So, why not The 
Totalitarian Tartan?
We could have become conservative. 
Our first issue would have attacked affir
mative action and financial aid. Next we 
w > Id have argued in favor of the Moral 
Majority, apple pie, and K-cars by antag
onizing the feminists, pro-abortionists, 
and anti-nuclear reds.
These are indeed, as a Princeton Dean 
put it, conservative times. Its another 
trend. Obviously wed rather be The Tar
tan and remain separate from the 
times, yet trends are something of 
which everyone should be aware.
Jumping on wagons seems to be popu
lar around CMU. We jump on technol
ogy wagons, tuition rally wagons, 
conservative, liberal, nuclear arms race, 
pro-choice wagons ... on and on. Jump
ing on is a favorite sport, but unfortu
nately a lot of us tend to jump without 
thinking  much like sheep.
Sheep-leap  lets be liberal.
Sheep-leap  lets be conservative.
We jump at the command of oui^eers 
and our superiors. We even have artistic 
sheep. They stay safely in their own field 
and follow the guy with the bell in charge 
of ringing in whats fashionable.
Even the U.S. government makes 
sheep-leaps. Leaping into El Salvador, 
the U.S. has been pouring millions of 
dollars into military and economic aid to 
a government that refuses to bring social 
reforms or human rights into practice. 
The buzzword communism sets the 
U.S. off into a righteous crusade, leaping 
without thinking or analyzing who is 
behind the labels, and rushing in without 
knowing who is really being oppressed.
Maybe the U.S. wanted to improve its 
image. But in its supporting of a system 
that according to American Ambassador 
Hinton, almost never brings to justice 
either those who perpetrate murders or 
those who order them, the U.S. has wea
kened its image as a supporter of human 
rights.
Because America is so obsessed with 
protecting its interests it fails to really 
protect them. Increases in defense spend
ing have made this country defenseindustry oriented. Wonderful. CMU 
students graduate into corporate jobs 
that involve work with defense related
projects. What about U.S. commercial 
industry? No one seems to be innovating 
there because defense spending sucks all 
the educated talent up first.
Its no wonder the mills, factories, and 
plants in U.S. cities can no longer com
pete with the technologically advanced 
processes of other countries. Were under
sold, and were dying out  but weve got 
great missiles. Even if the U.S. does go to 
war, how can it win if its dependent on 
other countries for steel and oil?
Sheep-leap  lets not let the Russkies 
get ahead.
Maybe if the U.S. had paid more atten
tion to its goal of human rights  not 
conservativism but concern-itism, con
cern for people  maybe then education 
would be flourishing, industry would be 
booming, and the entire country would 
be better off.
Lets leap over to Southern Europe, 
where the people of Spain recently 
elected the Socialist Workers Party into 
power. Spains new prime minister, 
Felipe Gonzalez, joins Frances Mitter
rand and Greeces Papandreou in the 
Southern European trend toward the left.
Maybe the people were just angry with 
center-right government, and they 
wanted a change. But the new parties 
represent more than simply a change
 this is more than a sheep-leap. Accord
ing to an Italian university professor, the 
new parties support cultural freedom,
and social justice. They identify with the 
popular demands for improving educa 
tion and the environment.
Southern Europeans arent swinging 
away from conservatism just to swine 
away from it. Theyre not sheep-leaping 
Their concerns are politically ieft 
because the left represents human rights
 human rights in education, culture 
and art. Their poverty has made them 
angry with the conservative take care of 
yourself attitude.
Lets go back to CMU. Is our campus as 
conservative as the ones already menti
oned? Was the tuiton rally a liberal stand
 were we bucking conservatism? Were 
we really concerned with our fellowmans opportunity to get an education? 
Or were we just angry because we 
couldnt go to Florida over spring breal
No one can generate a social con
science for another. Maybe its just a mat
ter of waiting for a European trend to 
become fashionable in the States. That 
okay, were always following some trend 1 
somewhere. All were suggesting is that 
the trend be seriously in favor of human 
rights.
Long term successes of countries, busi
nesses, and universities have depended 
upon the human condition being undeji 
stood and respected.
There are sheep-leaps going on all ovei 
the place. If you find yourself leaping, we] 
hope you know why. Chasing the wind 
mills of human rights beats jumping on; 
bandwagons any day.
Total nuclear annihilation makes a better world
By Chris Johnston
One thing I cant stand is pessimism, and 
I must say that all this negative talk Ive been 
hearing lately about nuclear war from 
mopey-faced students makes me want to 
i duck and cover. After looking at 
I the hopes and positive results of 
nuclear war, Im sure youll 
agree that nuclear war is a good 
thing.
Examine the facts. Brezhnev is dead and
"What the *!&/?"
sent off to the taxidermists by now, and the 
worlds nuclear powers have their innumer
able nukes pointed at each other. You may 
argue that its unquestioningly bad, but I 
think that its all attitude.
First erf all, the chances of this wonderful 
event happening are increasing daily, espe
cially now that Brezhnev's bushy brow is 
laid to rest He was a member erf the old 
guard, who were stupid enough to think
Students given run-around
By Nate Solano
Well the Administration came through 
for Us once again last week. The promised 
forum on tuition and campus financial pol
icy was held on Thursday, but dont feel too 
bad if you couldnt find it, it was 
mostly by coincidence that those 
erf us who attended did so. It was 
previously announced that the 
forum was to be held in the Ski bo Ballroom 
and indeed the Ballroom had been equipped 
Thursday with 400 chairs for this purpose.
For some reason that I dont honestly 
know, the meeting place was changed to 
Gregg Hall, (this is where the story gets 
good) Sensibly a sign was posted on the door 
of the Ballroom stating that the Forum was 
to be held in Gregg Hall, ON TUESDAY.
I do not find it all inappropriate at this 
time pose the question to the administra
tion: (if youll pardon the expression) What 
the Fuck?
Dear High Ranking Administrative 
Officials,
Where has that superior management 
ability that you like to speak of gone? Stu
dents  you remember them, they contrib
ute a significant amount of money to your 
pool of restricted (or was it unrestricted?) 
funds for the fiscal year  have actually
perceived this as a ploy to reduce attendance 
at the forum.
I personally dont give you enough credit 
to have done such a thing but the fact is that 
you have managed to alienate students in an 
effort to better inform them on an issue they 
see as crucial.
If I may offer some advice now: Get your 
heads out of the Mud! If you need and hon
estly want to motivate students to attend any 
of your functions, incorporate them into the 
promotion and advertising of those events. I 
think we have a better idea of what our peers 
want to see than you do.
Obviously Bitter, 
Nathan Philip Solano
I now continue my memoirs: The Rise 
and Fall of the Roman Nate (Caligunate) 
Chapter Seven 
Having suffered humiliating defeat at the 
hands of the Great Administrator, my army 
retreats into the mountains to regroup and 
endure the Winter.
(next week: the birth of Monroeville Mall) 
I will be in the office this week from 3:00 
to 5:00PM on Wednesday and from 7:00 to 
9:00PM on Thursday. Please stop in, he 
begged, it gets so lonely down there.
that nuclear war would be bad for Russia 
and communism as a whole. He probably 
got his cowardly idea from observing the 
depressing sight of old fashioned war and 
famine back in WWII. You know, hanging 
out in Stalingrad and watching people eat
ing rats and human corpses. Well, luckily 
the successor will have been raised in the 
efficiency erf modem society and will be able 
to deal with statistics instead of visions of 
gore. Numbers dont lie; everybody will win.
Communism will find its niche as well as 
democracy. After a nuclear attack, people 
will be forced to live in groups once again 
and will decide issues ranging from choos
ing whether or not to overrun another tribe 
that has more foodstuffs stored away and 
execute its members, to agreeing on 
whether or not to buy stock in the lead 
underclothes industry.
With civilization being reduced to a vast 
radioactive desert, everything can be like 
California. The whole world will feel first
hand the exhilaration of Frankie Valli and 
Annette Funicello movies. They too, can go 
to the beach and soak up some rays. It is also 
noteworthy that nuclear war knows no 
nationalism. Lets face it, the third and 
fourth world countries are always com
plaining that the industrialized west and
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the Unwersity commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan resen<es the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
persevering east never give them anything. 
After a hot n spicy nuclear exchange, 6 
smaller countries will finally be pacified.
But the best part erf this Beach Party I 
ory is that no longer will physically unat| 
tractive people have to worry about feelir 
inferior in the presence of bronzed, weighj 
difting gods, or turn enviously 
around goddesses in miniscule string 
inis, since everybody will be a mutant.
continued on p>0^
TheTarfen.
Editor in Chief...............................Alice Alfon
Managing Editor.........................Vince Guini
Business Manager.......................Louise Croco
News Editor................................Monica Cilli
Features Editor............................... Geof
Entertainment Editor.........................Sue
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergma
Photography Editor.....................John Stilwe
Contributing Editor.....................Gregg 1
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speraii
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie To
Typesetting Manager.......................Patd Carfo
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savi#
Assoc Features Editor.............Pauline Kram
Associate Photo Editor.....................Gene Yonis
Asst Ent Editor..............................John Can1
Asst Sports Editor............................Ric Medr
Asst Business Mgr........................Kathy Wa*
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret Eis^ 
Andrew Ghali, Monica Safrin, and Paulis 6
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial W 
reserves the right to withhold from piibli^11^ 
copy ii deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Sb. 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. * 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA
Funded by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
1

---------------------------------------------------

November 16, 1982The TartanPage 3
Letters.
Candidates are endorsed
Editor
Tomorrow and Thursday, this campus 
will be electing new Student Senators. I 
hope everyone will take a few minutes to 
vote in Skibo. There are seats open in every 
college. In SUPA, GSIA, and CFA, there are 
more openings than people on the ballot, so 
write-in candidates will win seats. In my 
college, CIT, there are ten people running 
for five seats. From my experience as chair
man of Senate, I can say that three of these 
candidates have worked hard in the past. I 
feel CIT should give them the opportunity 
to continue their work.
The first candidate, Laura Sabadell, has 
been Chairman of the Finance Committee 
for the past term. While doing an excellent 
job on the committee, Laura was also very 
active in planning the tuition rally, and has 
been working on the personal computing
* issue to assure that the student opinion will 
be heard. Laura has always been willing to 
work to make sure the students are correctly 
represented. I believe it is in CIT students 
best interest to have Laura as one of their 
senators.
Another candidate who has been working 
for CJTs benefit is John Pane, who has 
been running the Rules Committee this 
year. He has efficiently handled all of his 
duties, which included rewriting the organ
izational survey form in order to save many 
organizations needless trouble. John has 
always worked hard in the past, and I am 
confident that he will continue in the future.
If John is re-elected, it will be to the benefit 
of CIT as well as all of CMUs students.
The last CIT candidate who I strongly 
support is Sri Rajan. Sri is a freshman who 
recently filled a vacancy on Senate. In the 
short time he has been a Senator, he has 
shown great enthusiasm, and has made a 
strong effort to leam the procedures. It is 
important for freshmen to be represented on 
Senate. Sri can best represent them, as well 
as all CIT students in general.
All three of these candidates, Sri Rajan, 
John Pane, and Laura Sabadell, are very 
well qualified and willing to work for CIT. I 
strongly recommend to any CIT student to 
vote for these people.
Somewhat off the subject, but something 
that should be mentioned, is the fact that a 
write-in candidate, Leeann Rosner, is run
ning in H&SS. She is very enthusiastic, and I 
feel she is a very good choice for H&SS.
Regardless of what school youre in, or 
who you are voting for, the important thing 
is to vote. Alexandria Kavoulaki?
Senate Chairperson
ATO comments on misinformed image
Editor:
We here at ATO have been the subject of 
much discussion in the past, especially in 
this last semester. We have been criticized as 
being racially and religiously bigotted. We 
have even been berated for our failure to 
respond to these criticisms as they appeared
Senate hopeful lauded
1 Editor
| In the myriad of candidates running for 
 senate from CIT, one stands out  John 
I Pane. He was chosen by the senate from 
I among many desirable candidates to fill a 
jfLvacancv. Senate made a wise choice. Since 
| his appointment, he has risen to a position 
I of responsibility, and his opinions are 
I among the clearest and highest-regarded on 
I senate. As my vice-chair on the Rules Com
mittee, he has taken on considerable work 
willingly and performed perfecdy. I am
choosing not to run in this election, and so 
my position as Rules chair will be vacated. 
In order for competent leadership to be 
maintained, and to enhance continuity, I 
hope John is re-elected, and from there, 
becomes Rules chairman. It is in your best 
interest, CIT students, that John be re
elected. Therefore, Im first asking you to 
vote, and second, vote for John Pane for Cl I 
senator.
John J. Roppo 
Chairman, Rules Committee
in the Tartan. The main reason for not 
responding to the letters to the editor is 
mosdy that the incidents discussed and the 
motivation behind the incidents are often 
poorly represented and discussed within 
such letters. Often we find ourselves help
lessly victimized as students assume that a 
certain act was perpetrated by ATO. 
Obviously it doesnt make any sense to 
respond to any criticism that isnt solidly 
based in fact.
True, our past is not spotless and in the 
history of our fraternity, the oldest on cam
pus, we have made our share of mistakes. By 
the same token it is unfare to judge the ATO
of today by the acdons of the ATOs of the 
past. We have made honest and sincere 
efforts to improve our university and com
munity standing and have made considera
ble progress over the last two years.
Unfortunately, no one on campus really 
knows the ATOs, they assume they know 
us and the effort ends there. We are a mix
ture of many racial backgrounds, religions, 
and economic stations. We are, simply, 
looking for as fare a shake as you would 
want in a similar situation.
Thank you.
The Brothers of 
Alpha Tau Omega
Students should be residents
Bboard article incorrect
Editor:
This is in comment to Alex Czajkowskis 
column on BBOARDS in the Nov. 9 Tartan. 
I think this column should have been 
labeled with an OPINION block, 
because, unlike his usual columns, this one 
is almost entirely opinion. The fact content 
consists of an extremely skimpy explanation 
of how to use the system bboards (without 
any mention of how you add and drop 
bboards from your search list; in fact it is not 
even mentioned that you can have a search 
list at all. What does he expect you to do, 
type the long-winded command "READ 
,GENERAL/MORE-MODE every time?). 
Anyway, I have not yet figured out how to 
drop bboards from my search list in the 
system bboard program. This is easy in the 
Commputer Club BBOARD program, 
which I feel is much more user-friendly.
rhis brings up my main point, that he 
slighted the whole Computer Club 
BBOARD system, not even choosing to dig
nify it by explaining how to run it. (You 
type [CLOX] BBOARD, for your informa
tion. You can see some of the many bboards 
available by reading [CLOX] BBOARDS.Bi Tte commands for the Club
* wd are somewhat similar to those of the 
system bboard, only, I think, more usernendly. \ ou can put bboards on your reguar search list with the ADD command, and 
rm r^en on you only have to type CLOX
BBOARD READ to read all new messages 
on the boards on your search list. You use 
the REMOVE command to remove a 
bboard from your search list. The ? com
mand will always tell you what commands 
you can use. 
Mr. Czajkowski, you seem to object to 
how people are posting frovolous things on 
the club bboards. However, later in your 
article, you state that the system bboards 
besides GENERAL are not very exciting. 
I wonder just what if anything you would 
find interesting on a bboard. Making value 
judgements about what should be posted to 
a bboard is censorship, which could lead to 
infringements on our freedom of speech. 
With all the money we spend on tuition you 
shouldnt object strenuously to somebody 
misusing a few cents worth of computer 
time.
A few more comments on this weeks 
Tartan:
In response to Aaron Tanzer, I think CMU 
compares favorably with MIT in the area of 
computer science. The main thing CMU 
lacks is the nationwide publicity that MIT 
has had in the past. For this reason, I see 
nothing wrong in the fact that Cyert wishes 
more publicity for this school. He may go 
overboard at times, but it is true that we 
could use a little publicity. A 24-hour library 
continued on page 5
Editor
I am concerned about the large number of 
students living at home while attending col
lege. I am a 1981 graduate of Mount Saint 
Marys College in Emmitsburg, MD and by 
talking to students and faculty members, I 
found that students who live away from 
home do much better both academically and 
socially than students who live at home with 
their families. One cause of the large 
number living at home is the cut made in 
student aid. I hope something is done to 
restore student aid and the following sugges
tions are considered and implemented by 
colleges:
First, I think all freshmen should be 
required to live on campus in dormitories 
and not be allowed to register motor vehicles 
during the freshman year. Vehicles make it
easy for many freshmen to give in to a temp
tation to run away from a stressful situa
tion (such as being away from home) rather 
than cope direcdy with the situation. Col
lege freshmen need to be away from home, 
yet they also need support and guidance 
from peer advisors, faculty members, deans, 
and other college personnel so adjustment 
to the demands of college is hastened.
Second, I think all upperclassmen 
(sophomores-up) should not be allowed to 
live at home with their families but can be 
allowed to live on or off-campus and register 
motor vehicles. Again, being away from 
home promotes responsibility and inde
pendence on the part of the college student 
and this can result in much higher grades 
and a much more satisfying social life for the 
college student.
Glenn O. Rickard m
Sherman column discussed
Editor
I was extremely amused  (sorry)  
enthused by Ralph M. Shermans opinion 
article in Tuesdays Tartan (Nov. 9, 1982), 
and although its impossible to rekindle the 
same fiery level of tough-minded myopia(no, sorry) - philanthropia, I certainly want 
to echo as resoundingly as I can some of his 
points on the sure route to international 
suicide, supposedly opened by the woe
fully misled proponents of arms limitations.
Its an epochal confrontation between the 
Freezers and the Broilers, and Mr. Sher
man, in the spirit of true championship, 
seems to want to lead us into sure extinction
 (sorry)  distinction. I wish I could tell.
I agree heartily with his view that foreign
policy and negotiations are extremely deli
cate affairs, and I do imagine that official 
classified secrets make for very, very, sensi
tive decisions. Especially when it comes to 
the issue of unleashing the entire world 
stock-tonnage of nuclear weapons; igniting, 
that is, elemental stellar fires to which our 
skin will be as sensitive as the information 
needed to decide the matter in a fully logical 
way.
And speaking erf thinking logically about 
the whole thing, I share Mr. Shermans 
acute disappointment in Western intellectu
als such as our physicists, who actually dis
courage the employment erf civil defense 
measures against the onslaught of nuclear 
continued on paga 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 16, 1982
 V -- * ............
: .  ... v ^ .7 -
;/ /. -V v-/ ^\ '
.  '  - . ' - -
-  '*   > : - i -v- -  - ' : ~ ^ ;I
More columns
Recent events could lead world to a better future
By Stuart Shapiro
In the space of thirty-six hours last week, 
one era came to an end while another began. 
The death of Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev 
signaled the conclusion of a chapter in the 
mmmmmm history of the Soviet Union. The 
successful launch of the space 
r shutde Columbia on its first 
operational flight marked the 
advent of a greater and almost routine access 
to space.
Both events bring with them a new uncer
tainty about the future. No one can say for 
sure whether they are causes for optimism or 
pessimism.
Even the experts can make little more 
than educated guesses about where the bal
ance of power will finally fall in the new 
Soviet leadership. The initial infighting and 
maneuvering has already ended, but the 
more subde gamesmanship is yet to come. 
Whoever eventually emerges as the domi
nating power in the Politburo will have a 
key role to play in shaping the future. Just 
what that role will be is far from certain.
Will the policies of the Soviet Union after 
Brezhnev be less repressive, less militaristic, 
or less colonial? Maybe. Maybe not. Perhaps
marginally. But whoever proves to be the 
dominant figure in the Politburo will 
hardly be a fresh face. It is unlikely that he 
will have particularly fresh ideas. I doubt he 
will demonstrate any real inclination to 
blaze new trails.
Yet that is exactly what Columbia did last 
week. An operational space shuttle implies a 
regular and routine access to space that was 
only dreamt of just two decades ago. Like 
new leadership in the Kremlin, however, 
our new familiarity with space could be 
either beneficial or threatening.
Will conflict be exported into space along
with our satellites and experiments? Will 
the balance of terror literally encompass the 
entire planet? If space becomes the next bat
tlefield, the front line will be all around us. 
The scientific and commercial opportuni
ties of space are also an opportunity to bum 
our fingers while playing with new space 
age toys such as killer satellites and particle 
beam weapons.
If space becomes no more than a new 
challenge to see who can devise the most 
novel means of wreaking havoc and destruc
tion in orbit, we might just as well have 
stayed put. Unfortunately, it seems quite
likely that Soviet policies will for the most 
part do exacdy that. It would certainly 
nice if the Soviets actually got a new act 
together. But the current one of repression 
and aggression will probably be held over 
for a couple more decades.
In the meantime, Columbia and her sister ' 
craft will be opening Act II of The Space 
Age. I only hope some fool in the Pentagon 
doesnt decide to bring the house down.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
History and is a columnist for the Tartan.
Benefits of atomic holocaust explained
continued from page 2
thanks to the radiation induced mass steril
ity that will occur, the wild sexual antics for 
which beaches are famous can be pursued 
without worry of pregnancy.
On the other side of the moral scale, all 
the fundamentalist Christians will finally be 
able to say Ha, ha I told you so! to all 
those who doubted that Armageddon would 
ever happen. Likewise in Hell, the multitudes of suffering sinners wont have to 
worry about those pesky bom-agains talk
ing down to them from self-righteous 
pedestals.
War survivors will no longer be subjected 
to the annoying sight of a street-witness 
going into seizures of religious fervor. As 
you can imagine, many fundamentalists are 
in favor of nuclear strength. For instance, 
one of Phyllis Schlaflys (bless her soul)Brezhnev's last will and testament given
By Ralph M. Sherman
I, Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev, being of sound 
mind and body, do hereby testify and decree 
that this is my last will and testament, and 
do hereby bequeath:
To the United States and her 
Western European allies: A mil
itary and political body, NATO, 
in disarray and serious disagree
ment. My final attempt to rupture you, the 
pipeline, has so far worked beyond my wild
est dreams  you are building my nation a 
pipeline, with your credit, that will carry 
natural gas you will become dependent 
upon, and meanwhile done at the expense 
of your unity.
To Eastern Europe: General Jarulzelski, 
the ruler of the Polish people, my heartiest 
commendation. The Order of Lenin you 
received in the Czechoslavakian campaign 
of 1968 was well deserved. Continuing on 
your current path can only lead to your 
higher glory in the Soviet Unions eyes. To 
the Poles, Czechs, and others, I leave you a
Crimes of intellectuals
militarily repressed region, in the name of 
the proletariat, for your good. I leave you 
military obligations you do not wish, and 
Soviet troops to enforce your socialist fealty. 
Leaving, I can only recommend obeisance 
to my successor; surely and swifdy will any 
attempt to weaken the bonds that attach us 
be repressed, first by your own government, 
and by your Soviet brethren if needed.
To Afghanistan: I bequeath to this rebel
lious nation of fanners and tribesmen, that 
threatened the security of the Soviets, up to
100,000 erf my troops, helicopter gunships, 
tanks, fighter-bombers, and perhaps bio
chemical weapons. Your nation shall be 
obedient, at whatever cost to the Soviet peo
ple, and my successor shall ensure our success.
To the Chinese: I leave you a long and 
tortuous border, where tens of thousands of 
our troops face the same number of yours. I 
leave the dying attempts at reconciliation 
that mask  well, you shall surely find out 
if you accept this Communist detente.
continued from page 3
aggression. Its almost subversive, isnt it, 
the way they feed us these confusing instruc
tions with their bombs. No defense against 
radiation? But it seems only natural to take 
to the subways and basements when the air 
is saturated with fireballs.
That rascally intellectual class. Forget 
about their character assassination of Sena
tor McCarthy ever since those great days of 
HUAC; they took the Lords Prayer out of 
the schools, but well forgive em  they 
never managed to kill God entirely back
then in the 50s, anyway. But what theyre 
doing now eclipses scapegoating Milhous 
Nixon  they currently spread vicious pol
icies of fear and terror, just when were 
trying to keep our composure with the 
megaton-independent targeting-fallout 
thing.
Anyway, wThy shouldnt we hole up in the 
family shelter whilst Armageddon arrives? 
Are these physicists against the sanctity of 
the American family, or what? Besides, who 
wants to die out in the open?
As Mr. Sherman insists, civil defense meaBesides, who can deny we need the troops 
tied down on your border elsewhere?
To my fellow ruling-class comrades: I 
leave to you a process of Byzantian complex
ity, in which to choose the man who shall 
follow me. Perhaps it shall be Andropov, 
the former KGB head, or my protege, Cher
nenko, or enigmatic Grishin, or none of 
these. I leave to you willing to try a chance to 
rule a monolithic, paranoiac nation, mil
itarily strong and domestically weak.
Finally, to my Soviet People and Com
rades: As I am now dead, I will no longer 
need to hear of the hours you wait in lines, to - 
receive outrageously priced goods of an infe
rior nature. I will not need to witness the 
vcxika-soaked society that drinks itself into 
obliviousness constandy. I leave to you a 
mighty military machine, an agricultural 
base that depends upon sales from foreign 
nations, a technological base built upon 
espionage and theft, and otherwise, a 
repressed society that feeds upon fear and 
deception. I leave you the dictatorship of the 
proletariat, the dismal crops of Commu
nism, and the tainted seeds of socialism. 
Good luck to you, comrades, good luck.
Ralph Sherman is a senior in History and 
Political Science and is a columnist for the 
Tartan.
worthy quotes is that the atom bomb is 
Gods gift to America. Good old God 
always thinking of us Americans. *
The positive possibilities are limitless. 
Just try to imagine if all the things you hate, 
from radio stations that turn your favorite 
punk song into easy listening music to peo
ple who exit in line, were to suddenly disap
pear from your sight. This might occur 
because you were blinded by watching the 
epicenter of a nuclear detonation, but even 
so, wouldnt it be great?
I think that most people agree with roj 
optimistic opinion, but are just going with 
the present pessimistic flow to be chic. If 
people really cared about nuclear war, they 
would do something about it. They might 
try to get the superpowers to limit and 
eventually disarm themselves, but this is no 
easy task, too much distrust exists between 
governments.
They might at least try to save themselves, 
but no. Take you, the reader, for example, 
Do you own a bomb shelter? Do you know 
where your neighborhoexl fallout shelter is^ 
Do you have food stocked up? Of course not, 
Everybody would think you were a dooms
day weirdo. In other words, you want to be 
nuked.
I believe that the modest views I put forth 
today will sex)n take hold as the world draws 
ever closer to the happy times of holocaust. 
You might as well sheepishly admit that 
youve often thought of how neat it would 
be to see all those fireworks on which the( 
government has been spending your taxdol 
lars go off all at once. Take heart friends, we 
dont have long to wait.
Chris Johnston is a sophomore in HtSS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
sures can save lives, sort of like CPR or the 
Heimlich maneuver, and every American 
has a right to them. Too bad neutrons pene
trate eight feet of reinforced concrete. Well, I 
guess we can expire exactly as we chcx>se  
perhaps listening to battery-run recordings 
of Walter Cronkite telling it like it was, and 
proud that our striking capability was many 
times sufficient to halt the insidious Soviet 
jackboot poised over the Free World.
Nor does Mr. Sherman miss the subtle 
importance of the Soviet Union in all this 
By his acount, Soviet terrorism and enslave 
ment threaten the entire free world  just 
look at the sources: a 1980 State Departmeni 
White Paper on Soviet aggression prepaid 
continued on pafl 
A
. HOWARD JowmonS
OAKLAND
Coupon valid 
Sunday thru Thursday
Call 683-6100 for 
Reservations.
EXPIRES DECEMBER 31, 1982 THE EDUCATIONAL ESCAPE
If you are serious about final exams, then study in a quiet atmosphere.
$22.00 
Taxes Additional 
Per Person, Per Night 
(Based on Double Occupancy)
Bring this coupon with student I.D.
NOT VALID IN CONJUNCTION WITH ANY OTHER DISCOUNT OFFER, SPECIAL RATES.
<vGYN 
CHECKUPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Womens 
Health 
Services
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 5621900

---------------------------------------------------

November 16, 1982The TartanPage 5
American policy needs less paranoia, more logic
continued from page 4
by Secretary Al Haig, who more than 
anyone else, must have been privy to some 
pretty official classified secrets to coax out of 
the veiled cloak of current events this inter
pretation that the Kremlin has a crazed and 
underhanded plot to blitzkrieg the world 
into submission.
Never mind its laughably contrived and 
seriously inflammatory paranoia. This 
time, every intellectual Soviet analyst there 
is must have been smoking pot or some
thing: leadership succession in the offing, 
agricultural underproduction, industrial 
stagnation  all these Soviet realities sup
posedly discouraged the probability of 
Soviet military mobilization.
But actually, as Mr. Sherman will agree, 
the Soviets had a cleverly screened expan
sion in killer-satellite production under 
their sleeve, revealed just as we were just
? landing our first payload-carrying shuttle 
flight from orbit. TJ^ese analysts  our best 
informed when it comes to the current socio
logical and political state of the Soviet 
Union  even they had no idea that the Red 
Spread is subde indeed.
Yes, Mr. Sherman, definitely punish 
Soviet atrocities at home and abroad in 
Cambodia, Afghanistan; and certainly, take 
them to task for their union-busting policy 
in Poland  so much more brutal than 
Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis with
the air traffic controllers; discipline them for 
their enlistment of the terrorist BaaderMeinhof organization in W. Germany (and 
no doubt, via Cuban channels, the Weather 
Underground here in the ol U.S. of A.), just 
to further their aims at world enslavement.
Think of Somozas Nicaragua lost to the 
marauders; then of Chile, El Salvador, and 
Guatemala, where democratic leadership 
struggles to be born. We had better heed, as 
Mr. Sherman suggests, the sneaking terror
ist methods employed against all-toounsuspecting democracies innocently 
minding their own markets. In South Amer
ica, it takes the national guard (the internal 
forces, that is) to educate their population 
on how well theyre doing. The people must 
be so vigilantly protected!
Communist world enslavement. Roll that 
on your tongue. To call it a fate worse than 
death itself is the statement of our shaky 
prospects. I cant improve on Mr. 
Shermans:
The Soviets are more than 
willing to strike first . . . 
and enslave people to 
their system of govern
ment, as ugly a prospect to 
me as radioactive death.
Which leads us at last to the pinnacle 
intuition behind his entire position, There 
are things worse than death, and there is no
form of life more abominable than slavery.
How I applaud the nobility of this senti
ment. But let me crown it by finishing his 
thought that were we to castrate our tacti
cal nuclear weapons-force by a foolish nofirst-strike pledge, wed abandon the West 
to an inevitable military takeover, with the 
cursed whip of Soviet five-year-plan policy
making looming close by on the horizon.
This means that were we to relinquish 
our completely unmatched superiority in 
delivery systems such as Poseidon and Tri
dent submarine launchers; cruise missiles; 
the tactical clout of the neutron bomb; with
out forgetting a revolutionary shuttle capa
bility, with $10 billion for the Defense 
Department to spend on it; wed let the 
world, not to mention our domination of 
the aerospace world market, fall to pieces.
Well, heres where I get off this evangelis
tic bandwagon, which reeks of that anti
social animus in Repent All Ye Sinners-type 
messages. Sentiments like Mr. Shermans: a 
kamikaze attitude toward an unstable 
future, when scrupulous discipline is 
imperative for a curb in tensions; this idea 
that whats good for Americas economy is 
good for the worlds, and civilian uses of 
space, efficient manufacturing, and the 
most innovative software in the world, are as 
challenging as orbiting laser weaponry; 
these indicate a tremendously unimagina
tive, and dangerously shrill conception of
Americas place in the world.
This leads me to ask Mr. Sherman if he 
will persist in giving his readers absurdly 
dogmatic views on world developments. I 
certainly hope not.
Gregory Grossman 
Graduate Student
Toth refuted
continued from page 3
would be nice, but that is not one of the 
major criteria I use in judging a university. 
The library is open until 2 a.m., which is 
enough for me. The weekend hours could 
stand improvement, though.
To reply to Joe Toth, I dont see anything 
wrong with drafting women, at least if anyb
ody is to be drafted at all. I am opposed to the 
draft, but if there is one both sexes should be 
equally drafted. Our country' is generally 
working towards equal rights, so it seems to 
me somewhat unfair to force young men to 
have to worry about Uncle Sam messing up 
their lives, but have women free from this 
worry.
Dan Tobias 
Freshman, MCS
Hitchhiking towards Lehigh - an odyssey
By Paul Spillane
I havent written a column in a couple of 
weeks, probably because I hadnt had any
thing to write. As it is true that enthusiasm is 
contagious, so, I have found, is it true that 
apathy is contagious. The tui
tion protest rally provided a 
I much-needed boost to our coljlective enthusiasm level, but I 
felt the effects wear off a very few days later, 
as everything returned to mundane normal
ity. Sooo, I announced to my friends that, 
however much I enjoy it here at CMU, I just 
couldnt stay in one place for an entire 
semester. Having stated my motivation, a 
couple of Thursdays ago I took off, blowing 
off a few nonessential things (classes), and 
started to hitchhike east, in search of a good 
friend and a good party.
My quest was Lehigh University, a cou
ple of hours north of Philadelphia. I would 
like to be able to say that I made the trip 
without any hassles, in real-man style. Such 
was not the case. At no time during my trip 
did it stop raining. Instead, the rain ranged 
from a cold drizzle to the furious, torrential 
type. I was told later that the rain followed 
me east, and that Pittsburgh was nice and
dry from the day I left.
I would also like to be able to say that I got 
non-stop success, getting 100-mile rides 
every time I stuck out my thumb. The truth 
is that at 1:30 p.m., I was at Exit 8, having 
spent six hours in the freezing rain to get two 
one exit hops. I would also like to say that 
none of this bothered me. In reality, once I 
finally walked a mile backwards cm the turn
pike to a Hojos, the scene was one of a 
thoroughly depressed Spillane, looking like 
a drowned rodent, sitting there, dripping on 
someones floor (dont bother me, man, ah 
been through hell), contemplating how I 
got to that point and why I was stupid 
enough to try this stunt. I was at this low, 
soggy point that my luck changed, radically, 
for the better.
This guy came up to me and asked if there 
was anything he could do to help me. I guess 
I must have looked a litde worse than I 
imagined. I told him my story, said that I 
was just resting, drying, thawing, and con
sidering my options, and that unless he 
could get me close to Harrisburg, there 
wasnt much to be done. He couldnt, but 
another guy overheard some of the story, 
and asked me where I was trying to get to. I
briefly repeated some of the story, answered 
him Harrisburg, and assured him Id be very 
grateful for a ride. He was a truck driver.
Well Im not really supposed to take any 
hitchhikers, [some kind of damn govern
ment regulation], but I suppose I cant get 
continued on page 8
A SPELLGINDING NOVEL OF FANTASY AND 
ADVENTURE
Jim Henson, creator of the Muppets, has con
ceived a movie of startling originality, one that takes 
us into a world unlike any we have known. He has 
been aided in this wizardry by Gary Kurtz as co
producer, Frank Oz as a co-director, and David Lazer 
as executive producer. The screenplay was written by 
David Odell, and the original conceptual designs are 
by Brian Froud. The Dark Crystal is a Universal 
Pictures release.
Now A.C.H. Smith, author of several novels and 
plays, has woven all the colorful strands of this fan
tastic tale into a novel that is as enthralling as the 
movie itself.
$3.95
emuimi
IN BAKER MALLKstcrepizz/t $
1 > 3415 FORBES AVENUE -Cf
OAKLAND 
Next to Arby s 
681-2202 or 681-2203
Pizza
JUNIOR 
SMALL 
MEDIUM 
LARGE 
X LARGE
Hoagies
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS 
PEPPERONI  MUSHROOMS  SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS - ONIONS  ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES - EXTRA CHEESE - 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
ITALIAN 
HOT SAUSAGE 
MEAT BALL 
CAPICOLLO 
STEAK
MUSHROOM STEAK 
HAM/CHEESE 
ROASX BEEF 
SAI.AMI
QUARTER POl'NDPR
Visit Our Bar & Dining Lounge
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
Free Delivery
o<? e>Q Mon - Tues. Wed. 10:00 A M - 2 00 A M
' Thurs. - Fri - Sol 10 00 A M -- 3 00 A M
Business Hours
Sundays 2 00 P.M ~ 2:00 A M

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 16, 1982
..................
UPCOMING LECTURES
All lectures open to the public. 
November 22, 7:30 p.m.
Dr. Van Houweling------------WeaD 11311 7500
Vice provost of computing and planning 
The Computing Future at Camegie-Mellon
Monday, December 6, 7:30 p.m.___________Steve Mi 11 fit
Wean Han 7500 , j^esearc]1 staff Assistant
Engineering and Public Policy dept 
Robotics: Economic Impacts 
and Human Resource Implications
Fischer lectures on US, Soviet arms policies '
years.
Fischer believes though, that the situation 
is not totally bad. NATO can improve its 
position by solving its organizational prob
lems, as long as it keeps the current military 
numerical imbalance from getting worse. 
Furthermore, recent developments in 
Lebanon and Afghanistan suggest that Rus
sian tactics and training are not particularly 
efficient.
Fischer summarized that the greatest 
Soviet threat could appear when the Soviets 
believe they could occupy an area ljj^ 
Europe without involving U.S. conventional or nuclear warfare, and that NATOs 
best offense is a good deterrence.Tuition hike explained
continued from page 1
the comparisons when we arent compara
ble to Ivy League schools, academically or 
socially? The answer given was, because 
we compete with them for students and for 
faculty and for research grants. There is aca
demic competition with them, the quality of
most of our students is better than Brown  
Another reason was, Our history department compares with Princeton.
Concluding the question-answer period 
Rogers stated, This is a very hard working 
atmostphere, not a very social atmosphere.
photo by Rowshanak Hashemiyoon
Richard Van Horn, Fred Rogers and Richard Cyert discussed the tuition hike with students 
last week.
By BOB AARHUS
Special for The Tartan
On November 11, Professor Gregg 
Fischer, professor of Social Sciences, 
addressed The Soviet Threat as 
a part of CMUs ROTC Cadet Seminar.
Fischer, who is a student of Soviet mil
itary affairs, and a former Army Officer, 
opened by examining two Western concepts 
of the current East-West military situation. 
The first, known as a special theory, sug
gests that all military weapons themselves 
cause tension, and this tension causes war; 
thus, by ridding ourselves of weapons we 
can rid ourselves of the threat of war. The 
second is that war is obsolete: both the U.S. 
and U.S.S.R. know a nuclear or conven
tional war would destroy our societies, and 
thus neither side would commit itself to one.
However, the Russian viewpoint is some
what different.The main deterrent to Soviet 
advance is the U.S. strategic nuclear capa
bility; however, the Soviets know we are not 
likely to use nuclear weapons unless there is 
a high American stake involved. Thus, no 
one excpected the U.S. to make a nuclear 
retaliation during the Afghanistan inva
sion; however, an invasion of Americanoccupied West Germany is much more 
likely to promote a nuclear response, and 
thus lessen the Soviet threat of attack.
Could we defend Europe if there was a 
Soviet attack? Fischer said that according to 
many Soviet sources, including soldier 
training manuals and public statements, the 
Soviets main battle principle it the offensive 
(specifically, the attack). Most battle plans 
are designed around attacking first in an 
initial massive strike, using Blitzbrieg tac
tics, and destroyers; NATO nuclear and con
trol centers, along with assassinating many 
NATO officials at the outset. In a few words, 
he said Russia cannot afford to get bogged 
down; if necessary, tactical nuclear weapons 
would be employed to open holes in the 
NATO line.
In this case of a Soviet attack, the NATO 
nations might be hard pressed to put up a 
defensive line. Because of logistical and tac
tical differences in the military command 
structure, the Warsaw Pact nations would 
easily be able to outnumber and^probably 
outmaneuver the NATO nations. Further
more, although NATO has had a techno
logical advantage in the past, the Soviets 
have gained tremendously in the recent
Simon and Reddy lecture
Nobel laureate Herbert Simon and Dr. 
Raj Reddy will discuss the educational 
potential of computers at 8 p.m., Saturday, 
Nov. 20 in the auditorium of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration.
Simon will speak on The Computer 
Age, and Reddy, director of the Robotics 
Institute, will discuss Computers and 
Operating Systems in the Next Five Years. 
The lecture is free and open to the public.
The program marks the opening of a 
four-day conference whose purpose is to lay 
out a suggested research agenda to harness 
the untapped instructional potential of 
existing information technology and pro
vide direction for the application of the com
ing generation of more powerful machines. 
The conference will bring together approxi
mately 40 educators, cognitive scientists, 
computer scientists and distinguished pro
fessionals from various disciplines.

---------------------------------------------------

All Tartan Staff
inhs available
Program offered for mental health students
November 16, 1982The TartanPage 7
there will be 
a meeting of all
 editors
 writers
 photographers
 production staff
 cartoonists
ScoTch V Sod a
PRESENTS
ORIGINAL 
ONE-ACT PLAYS
Editodi o rail.Naveim 
CONTEIMpORARy MONOloqUE.
NovEiwbER 20, 12:X) 
Scorch W SodA offiCE
40 D Skibo
f^JNded by ByPAPyPUL PUU
X EROX D OWN A GAIN 9
announcing the NEW. . .
C AMPUS WJORD
PROCESSINGsER VICE
Allegheny Computer 
Technologies Co.
Papers, Letters, Graphs/Plots, Publications 
Various Type Styles and Ribbon Colors 
Spellchecking Inluded in Price 
Convenient on-Campus Location 
10% Discount with Student ID
single spaced - $2.00 per page 
double spaced - $1.25 per page
Located in Student Corp. office, Skibo 58 
For Information Call 578-3535 (leave name and number)
funded by activities fee
The use of a fully insured personal auto
mobile and ability to do own typing are 
required. No stipends are available, and 
appointees must assume personal living 
expenses during the year unless their role 
requires them to live in. Applicants should 
have a broad academic base of training and 
some degree of practical experience in indi
cated areas. Preference w ill be given to appli
cants who plan to attend graduate school 
and presently seek a comprehensive training 
experience in supportive mental health 
services.
Information and applications are availa
ble from Dr. Henry Platt, Director, Devereux Foundation Institute of Clinical 
Training 8c Research, 19 South Waterloo 
Road, Box 400, Devon, PA 19333 (215/296- 
6906).
photo by Don Starver
A gas leak in front of CFA brought Pittsburgh fire trucks and police to the scene as the 
[building was evacuated.
Next Monday at 8:30 p.m. 
in Room 13
Undergraduates, graduating seniors, and 
new college graduates are invited to apply 
for full-year Preprofessional Mental Health 
Traineeships and short-term Externships 
providing training and experience with 
mentally and emotionally handicapped 
children, youth, and young adults present
ing problems of adjustment and learning.
The training program is offered through 
the Institute of Clinical Training and
Research and the treatment centers of the 
Devereux Foundation in suburban Phila
delphia, a group of residential and day care 
treatment/special education and rehabilita
tion centers. Assignment to branches in 
other states may be possible. The Devereux 
PA branch is approved by the APA for predoctoral internships in clinical and counsel
ing psychology.
The training program provides an orien
tation to career opportunities in mental 
health and supervised training and expe
rience in such areas as therapeutic education 
and rehabilitation, psychological services, 
adjunctive therapies, and service-oriented 
research. As time permits, there is an oppor
tunity for observation of milieu therapy, cri
sis intervention, treatment, special 
education and social rehabilitation tech
niques, and also attendance at clinical case 
conferences and professional seminars.
Appointment to the PA Branch may 
include assignments as a Research/Profes
sional Aide, Mental Health Resident Advi
sor/Counselor, Psychiatric Aide, Teachers 
Aide, Psychological Services Aide, Recrea
tion Aide, or other related mental health 
specialties.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 16, 1982
Learning from truckdrivers an experience for student
continued from pege 5
in any real trouble. I can take you as far as 
Harrisburg. Was I beginning to feel better? 
Damn straight. This was a three-and-a-half 
hour ride. Five minutes later I was starting 
my first ride in a real 18-wheeler, complete 
with twelve forward gears and the inevitable 
CB radio. Not the smoothest ride in the 
world, he unnecessarily informed me, but it 
gets you there. Not the quietest ride, either, I 
thought, but I had no desire to do any com
plaining; I was dry, comfortable, and MOV
ING. During the trip, when I wasnt asleep, 
I enjoyed talking to this guy, and learning 
about this entirely different culture. One of 
the greatest advantages of thumbing it is the 
street-wise education you get, and the kind, 
helpful people you invariably run across 
(clean livin, son, clean livin).
This trucker even went out of his way for 
me, getting off at Carlisle Exit 16, and drop
ping me at a truck stop, where I could hope
fully get a good ride. It was at this point that 
I was sure that Murphys Law, complete 
with the force of all its corrolaries, had once 
again turned against me. I couldnt find a 
trucker going my way. It was dusk, and it 
would be rough to catch a hitch in the driz
zle. I figured it was only a $10 bus ride to 
Bethlehem/Lehigh, but no one knew where 
I could find a bus. Carlisle is a hick town! 
Try the Molly Pitcher Hotel. A bus used to 
stop there a couple of years ago.  The opera
tor couldnt even give me a number to call. I 
then revised my plan: hitchhike to Harris
burg 20 miles away, and try to find a bus 
there.
I dont know why I tried that; it was 
almost impossible to catch a ride in the 
increasing darkness and rain. But, nonethe
less, I got a ride going to Harrisburg, in a 
Cadillac no less, after only ten minutes. This 
guy was a former truck driver, and he went
out of his way to get me to the bus station. 
He told me that if I couldnt catch a bus, hed 
take me out to the highway that led to 
Lehigh, still almost three hours away. In 
accordance with the pessimistic rule of life, I 
missed the last bus by a half hour, and the 
next one was in 16 hours. I figured, what the 
hell, Ive come this far, I might as well hitch
hike in the total dark.
The caddy driver took me about ten miles 
north past his destination, and left me at 
route 81. After about a half hour of thumb
ing and trying to find a good entrance to 
leech off of, I had literally gotten nowhere. I 
was thoroughly resolved to sleeping at a 
truck stop about five miles down the road. 
Anyway, when the next car slowed to turn 
onto 81,1 whipped out one of my hitchhik
ers tools  one of my collection of card
board signs that had, written in large, 
friendly letters, the question PLEASE?. 
The car stopped.
My latest (and last) victim was a father 
and son team on their way home to... New 
York. They said that my sign was the only 
reason they had stopped. These guys had 
just spent more at a horse auction in Harris
burg than Ill spend in two years at CMU. 
They would have positively laughed at a 
$1200 tuition increase if I had mentioned it. 
This pair also went 10 miles north out of 
their way to take me right to the Bethlehem 
exit, after a ride of almost three hours.
To finish off the story: I walked four miles 
into Bethlehem and called a very surprised 
friend at Psi U fraternity; he had no idea that 
I was serious about the whole idea. He 
found a car and picked me up. I got to Psi U
in time for Hill Street Blues and country 
pub night, and went to a fantastic hotel 
party (barhop, for you Pittsburghers) Friday 
night, Oh, wasnt that a party. It made the 
whole trip worthwhile. Since I was in the 
neighborhood (i.e. two hours away), \ 
decided to take a bus home to Philly. After 
visiting for a day, I took the Sunday red-eye 
express to Pittsburgh, and fell on my bed 
on the Hill at 4:50 a.m. Monday.
The moral of the story ? Well, the lesson is 
that theres always some way to clear your 
head if schools getting to you, if only youre 
daring, bold, and stupid enough really to go 
through with it (plus itll give you some
thing to write about); and to suggest an 
innovative cure for apathy: take off.
Paul Spillane is a freshman majoring in 
Social Sciences and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
People don't like to be awakened early
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
People are funny in the morning. Its a 
given that nobody likes to get up; when they 
finally do, most people take half an hour or 
more to become completely awake. I, how
ever, belong to the unpopular 
minority that takes approxi
mately 15 seconds to wake up 
and get functioning. I have yet 
to meet someone who admires this quality.
One dme, after an all-night cast party in 
high school, I woke at 6:30 am to find myself 
sprawled on a highly uncomfortable sofa, 
surrounded by the shadowy figures of other 
sleeping people. I sat up, trying to get my 
bearings, and then realized where I was, I 
whispered a few names, but no one stirred; 
they were all dead to the world.
Maybe they were really dead, I thought. I 
had never seen so many people so still. I
Student Senate Agenda
Nov. 16. 1982
1. Call to 0rder-7:00 in the Wherrett Room
2. Roll Call
3. Approval of the Minutes
4. Audience Participation-All students are invited 
to address the Senate on any matters of concern to 
them.
5. Officers Reports
Dean Walter-Administration 
Dean Cox-Adminstration 
Mark Marsella-SDC 
Charlie Krafft-CSO 
Nate Solano-Student Government President 
Gina Fleitman-UFO 
Alexandra Kavoulakis-Senate Chairman 
Janelle Molloy-Senate Vice-Chairman
6. Senate Internal Committees
Rules-General Announcements 
Academic Affairs-A resolution concerning the audit 
grade 
General Campus and Information-Pushing Strong 
voter turnout 
Finance-Budget for Spring Carnival
7. New Business
8. General Discussion
9. Announcements
10. Adjournment
decided it was my duty to wake them up. 
Sidestepping the prone bodies, I made my 
way to the piano at the other end of the room 
and proceeded to bang out one of Sousas 
more beloved marches. Within seconds, I 
was pelted with everything from shoes to 
curses.
My boyfriend is a prime example of a 
deep sleeper. A better description, in fact, 
would be that he is a determined sleeper. 
One evening, he called me and asked me to 
call him the next morning at 7:15 so that he 
would be sure to get up for an important 
test. True to my word, I called at a quarter 
after, only to have the phone ring 14 times. 
When he finally answered, it was like speak
ing with someone who had just learned the 
English language and was on drugs. In 
simpler terms, he leaves out the vowels.
Mmg, he groaned.
Good morning, I caroled. Wake up 
time! Calisthenics! Test! Firecrackers! I fig. 
uied lively words might put some energy 
into him.
Nd mr sip, he growled threateningly.
You do NOT need more sleep, youve 
had eight hours worth. Now get up, I 
replied. After a few minutes of pleading, he 
finally promised to get up, but it was no easy 
task.
Another time, I had taken four friends 
home with me. All of us were up by 10:00 am 
except for my boyfriend. We tried every
thing: screaming two inches from his ear, 
bouncing the mattress, singing choruses (off 
key) from Jingle Bells  nothing worked. 
We even resorted to cruelty and poured 
water over his face. At that point, I knew he 
was awake, but his eyes stayed determinedly 
continued on page 22
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE 
9 NOVEMBER 1982
Once again, your Student Senate, meeting in the Wherrett room 
of Skibo, tackled the problems and issues of the student body, 
from the sublime to the ridiculous. These ranged from Monica 
Cellio presenting a petition to attempt to place her as a full 
member on the Joint Computing Committee, which inspired a lot of 
debate and interesting parliamentary wrangling. The Senate 
finally chose to vote against recommending Miss Cellio to be on 
the Committee, and this issue is over for this session it would 
seem. Also, the Senate approved two resolutions regarding prob
lems with Teaching Assistants
It was resolved by the students of Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity, in Student Senate assembled, that to preserve quality edu
cation, all TAs should attend training workshops, and 
communications difficulties. Senate also urges that teaching 
assistants ought to have satisfactorily completed a course or 
its equivalent, before being permitted to teach in it. Also, 
these TAs should also have taken one additional higher level 
course on the same subject, Senate voted.
In other items of interest, Treasurer Caine moved a Constitu
tional Amendment, to be fully discussed, next week, that would 
create a new post of Assistant to the Treasurer, to keep an eye on 
those groups in or near finanacial trouble and doing so with YOUR 
Activities Fee money. Miss Linda Quarrie was elected to be the 
new Vice-Chair of the General Campus and Information Committee. 
The Senate Parliamentarian helped earn his keep by answering 
some intricate if not interesting questions to help the flow of 
the Cell io debate . ALL ARE URGED TO VOTE IN THE UPCOMING ELECTION 
FOR STUDENT SENATE, AND TO REMEMBER THAT IF YOU DO NOT, IT MAY BE 
YOU WILL SAY TO YOURSELVES : I SHOULD HAVE VOTED! ! ! Incidentally 
the Judicial Committee is looking into establishing an ETHICS 
COMMITTEE on Student Senate. Remember to come to the next meet
ing of Student Senate, that meets once more, next Tuesday (that 
is today for those reading this for the first time in the Tartan) 
at about 7:00 p. m. , in the Wherrett room os Skibo. You are thanked 
for attending the Tuition Rally, saidPresident Nate Solano, and 
he would certainly be pleased to see one and all attend the meet
ing too.
Respectfully Submitted 
Ralph M. Sherman 
Secretary and Parliamentarian 
Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Nuclear Convocation bombs CMU and Pitt
SOLUTIONS TO THENUCLEARARMSRACE
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Features Editor
Last Thursday and Friday the University 
of Pittsburgh and Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity hosted Solutions to the Nuclear Arms 
Race. Composed of a series of workshops 
and films, the convocation in
Gfa. Pittsburgh was part of a larger 
organization, the United Cam
puses to Prevent Nuclear War, 
that coordinated meetings across the 
country.
The convocation and peace demonstra
tions over the summer are signs that most 
people agree that growth in nuclear arms 
should be halted. However, no one but the 
demonstrators seems sure enough to even 
move. Limitation talks between the super
powers take on the aspect of a perverted 
chess match as they struggle for advantage 
under the guise of striving for parity. And 
the security of demonstrators is based on 
oversimplification of a highly complex 
issue.
The reaction of our fearless leader to the 
convocations and demonstrations has taken 
an interesting turn. The most recent state
ment from the horses tail fell out at a press 
conference held Thursday night. Ron 
believes that the mass public is very sincere 
when they demonstrate against nuclear wea
pons. However, Ron asserted, the leaders of 
this whole peace thing take their orders from 
the other side.
When a reporter pressed Ron for details, 
he smiled coyly and said that he doesnt 
speak on security issues. The Senators have 
picked up Rons assertion and are running 
with it. They too want to hear the evidence 
for such a statement. But Ron holds the key 
and were all locked into his conception of 
national security. Remember when fluori
dated water was thought to be a communist 
conspiracy? Instead of contaminating our 
precious bodily fluids, Ron seems to be 
implying that the new threat is voiding our 
precious public opinion.
Suppose demonstrators do receive aid 
from foreign sources. Is it possible that for
eigners are as worried about the possibility 
for nuclear war as the natives? Naw, they 
just want gas, nukes be damned. In fact, 
dam the nukes with gas. The Soviet pipeline 
into Western Europe is an interesting exper
iment in cross-culture cooperation that even 
Ron has bought into.
The foreign involvement question is one 
to watch. It smells like political strategy in 
the baking, and until answered one way or 
another it affords Ron and friends an excel
lent excuse for feeding us nuclear policy 
paralysis.
What follows are summaries of some of 
the workshops. The criteria for choice was 
personal interest combined with the time 
available to sit through them. One point 
about the convocation begs to be made. 
Although this convocation presented an 
alternate point of view and bushels erf infor
mation, keep in mind that organizers want 
their support to grow and an obvious fertil
izer is Ronald Reagan.
Researched and written by:
Terri Breier 
Nelson Guda 
Pauline Kramer 
Robert A. Young 
Alan M. Zahler
Future Directions for Arms Control
Thursday, November 11, marked and event 
iHed with the Campus Convocation for 
lutions to Arms Race, the fourth suc< ussful launching of the space shuttle 
/Jlurnbia, and the death of Leonid Brezhnev' s was the opening to the keynote 
I*( < h of the evening given by William Kintade, excutive director of the Arms Control
Association, on Future Directions for Arms 
Control.
Kincade began his speech with a savage 
attack on Brezhnevs policies regarding wea
pons buildup over the last forty years, then 
he turned around and translated U.S. poli
cies with equal ferocity. After an informative 
buildup on the history of the deterant 
strategy that now controls most Soviet and 
U.S. weapons policies, the director of the 
ACA pointed out the inherent faults in this 
strategy, thus showing why we should 
adopt new policies. Near the end of his 
speech, Kincade emphasized  his concern 
over the development of the cruise missile. 
We are moving into an era where technol
ogy is about to outrun thinking. 
US/USSR Mutual Perceptions
Robert Gromoll and Richard Cottan of 
Pitt presented a very enlightening workshop 
on U. S. perceptions of the Soviet Union 
and what is wrong with these views. Unfor
tunately but predictably, the workshop 
failed to give* a good idea of Soviet percep
tions of the U.S. Both men stressed that we 
must not see the Soviets as inherently evil, 
but as a group of confused military leaders 
similar to the leaders in our country. The 
speakers pointed out the basic fears of the 
Soviet Union and emphasized that satisfac
tory arms control agreements cannot be 
reached unless steps are taken towards les
sening these fears.
Historical Perspectives on the Arms Race
This workshop, given by David Kaiser of 
CMU and Robert Colodny of Pitt, dealt 
mainly with the question Do arms races 
lead to war? Though at first the answers 
seemed somewhat noncommital from both 
speakers, their opinions finally conveyed on 
a single idea. Neither Kaiser nor Colodny 
concluded that war must follow arms race, 
but both emphasized that an arms race in 
conjunction with hostile political blocks 
brought on from cold war gready increase 
the probably of war. However, Colodny said 
that predictions are near impossible because 
all of the arguments of war and peace have 
been rendered obsolete by nuclear 
weapons.
Foreign Policy and Weapons
On Friday, Profs. Coulam and Salomon, 
experts on foreign policy, gave a talk on the 
problems of and obstacles to arms control 
negotiations. On some points they agreed to 
differ, but for the most pan they presented a 
united front. Some brief notes: the Soviets 
know exacdy what they want from arms 
control negotiations, and the same fellows 
are there year after year to try to obtain it. 
Here, new administrations have new arms 
control postures and new negotiators. This 
is trying on the poor Soviets, who have to 
figure us out anew every four years or so.
Coulam presented the problem of Bar
gaining Chips. If we dont build a particular 
system, then we could be conceding a mil
itary advantage to the Soviets with their sim
ilar system, unless we develop and threaten 
to deploy ours, which would cause them to 
think twice about deploying theirs. This is 
what happened with anti-ballistic-missiles. 
As we started developing ours, Coulam said, 
. . .the Soviets stopped yawning. . . and 
came to the negotiating table, resulting in 
the ABM treaty.
By developing our system and not com
ing to an agreement, however, a powerful 
pro-system bureaucracy (people w ith careers 
and kids in college) would be capable of 
pushing an unwanted system into deploy
ment. This is the risk with the Pershing, a 
medium range nuclear missile to be stati
oned in Europe, which is complicated by 
the fact that the Soviets have already 
deployed theirs.
Salomon stated that both governments 
must feel that negotiations will lead to more 
security and lessen the chance of war for the 
negotiations to work. One of the objectives 
of SALT 1 was to lessen Soviet reliance on 
ICBMs and have more submarine missiles, 
which are invulnerable to a first strike by the 
U.S.
In a friendly disagreement, Coulam noted 
that arms control could increase defense 
expenditures. He explained that Nixon had 
to promise increases to the Senate and the 
military for their acquiescence in SALT.
Salomon countered with his assertion 
that increases need not occur in a proper
political environment, and that defense 
expenditures might have been even higher 
without SALT.
After hearing of all the problems inherent 
in arms reduction negotiations; a friendly 
yet naive fellow said, This is all very 
depressing now Id like it if you could cheer 
me up by telling me of some positive things 
the people can do to oppose arms prolifera
tion. Bob Coulam responded with, Influ
ence the electorate.
Electing politicians who support a 
nuclear arms freeze is probably the most 
effective way to influence upper level deci
sion makers to enter into arms limitation 
talks with the Soviets. The people at the 
upper levels who are not responsible to the 
electorate, such as the joint chiefs of staff, 
must be persuaded with facts.
Mike Salomone stated that radical activi
ties such as the marches on Washington, 
campus riots, etc. that were in protest of the 
vietnam war dont apply to the nuclear arms 
issue. The down home sentiment caused by 
Americans getting killed in Vietnam doesnt 
exist for this issue. Also many Americans 
truly feel that for their security, the United 
States needs a strong nuclear arsenac.
Dr. Salomone warned that activities such 
as bombings, pouring blood on the pen
tagon and the like will only hurt the nuclear 
freeze issue. Candidates who support a 
nuclear freeze will be associated with these 
activities by their opponents and their elec
tion hopes will be hurt.
In order to be effective in the limited role, 
the nuclear freeze supporters must concen
trate their energies in three areas: educate the 
public about nuclear war, campaign for 
public officials w7ho support the freeze, and 
organize an effective and powerful lobby in 
Washington.
Politics and the Arms Race
1.9 trillion dollars a year is spent by the 
Reagan administration for the perpetration 
of a big lie, says Ms. Liane Norman, 
Ph.D., a professor of English at Pitt. In her 
seminar How do the boundaries and lim
itations of political discourse set by conven
tional politics affect the arms race?, Ms. 
Norman, who recently ran for U.S. Senate 
on the Consumer Party ticket, emphasized 
the uselessness of a national defense 
program.
Its suicide, she states. Theres no way 
to stop a nuclear bomb, and even President 
Reagan realizes that. We are 30 minutes 
away from death.
Ms. Norman feels there are four categories 
of response to that knowledge. The first she 
refers to as the window erf vulnerability 
attitude, typical of many politicians and 
nuclear arms supporters, which is that in 
case of a nuclear attack, all we have to do is 
close a window, i.e.: use anti-nuclear weap
onry. However, as pointed out, there really 
is no defense, so the window is easily shat
tered. Second is the freeze response, 
rapidly gaining supporters of moderate and 
liberal politics. They feel a nuclear freeze is 
the answer. A third small, but growing 
group wishes to abolish warfare and eradi
cate nuclear weaponry altogether. The 
fourth response is to simply block out any 
knowledge of a threat, any feeling of hel
plessness; if this is done, the problem will 
cease to exist.
This last attitude is frighteningly reminis
cent of that of the Jews during the Holo
caust in World Wrar II, a point Ms. Norman 
stressed, adding that nuclear warheads have 
the capacity for killing many more people 
that the ten million massacred by the Nazis. 
She suggested that to avoid a similar inci
dent, the people of the United States must 
re-invent politics by re-defining what is 
within their power.
continued on pege 20

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanNovember 16, 1982
BENJAMIN 
F E4IRLESS 
yWEMCRIAL 
LECTURES
"The Relationship Between 
Business and Government 
in France"
Carnegie-Mellon University presents the 1982 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
SU PA's Ben Fischer has "more titles than Nick/aus"
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
Ben Fischer has held more titles than Jack 
Nicklaus. Hailing from Hoboken, N. J., 
CMUs Adjunct Professor of Labor Rela
tions and Public Policy and Director of 
Labor Studies labels himself the least edu
cated man at CMU. SUPAs witty, sarcas
tic, and keenly intelligent staffmember, who 
had formerly served as Assistant to the Presi
dent of the United Steelworkers of America, 
graduated from one educational insitution
 high school. Why is the gray-haired yet 
vivacious labor relations master teaching 
courses, overseeing a masters project and 
directing labor studies in urban and public 
affairs? He answered straighdy with a slight 
twinkle in his eye: Its near my apartment 
and I wanted to work after I retired. No, 
really, why here? Ive always been fond of 
CMU; its small and private, Fischer said 
seriously. The school is oriented toward 
solving problems.
Fischer spoke easily and quite eloquently
 with little encouragement  about labor 
relations, unions, and his views on the gen
eral economic standing of the world and this 
country.
We are constantly in the middle of pro
found change and we tend not to know it, 
Fischer said. We speak of the world in 
terms erf yesterday. What was true yesterday 
is not true today because of the continual 
changes. He says that labor relations is too 
busy counting, drawing charts and record
ing what people have said and perhaps what 
people think they have done. This is quite 
different from what people say they have 
done. Fischer feels that CMU is not heading 
in this direction of counting and graph
ing; rather, he feels that President Cyert
recognizes the appropriateness of combin
ing technical know-how with other disci
plines, such as human resources, 
knowledge, and sensitivity.
In his teaching capacity at SUPA, Fischer 
tells students what labor relations, indus
trial relations and union functions are all 
about and in what direction theyre headed. 
I go out of my way to tell the students that 
these subjects are not universal. Ive seen too 
many people disillusioned because theyve 
seen a gap between* what theyve been told 
and what things are really like. Skepticism, 
Fischer adds, is beneficial to the workings of 
society, but cynicism is not.
Fischer is excited about the prospect of 
working with Robotics, especially because 
he feels that the faculty rarely works in a 
supplemental fashion. Over the summer, 
Fischer spoke to some representatives from 
IBM and discussed the impact of new tech
nology which robots will breed and possible 
ensuing problems. What we now define as 
management, technicians, and blue and 
white collar workers will all go to hell, 
Fischer says.
Dr. Leonard Lynn of the Social Science 
department, who is extremely well-versed 
on labor relations in Japan, and Fischer, are 
presendy trying to raise grant money for a 
new project: to compare labor relations in 
the U.S. with that of Japan. No one has 
ever recorded the lifetime income security 
system in the steel industry. Its not an easy 
process, but we can do it. It will be a great 
experience for us, not only for steel, but also 
to get an insight on the true rights of Japa
nese steelworkers, Fischer said.
Fischer feels that steel wages are the high
est in the world because of the unions 
involved, the skill of these unions, the tech
nical and high skill nature of the industry.
Fischer adds that some 
unions are in the public sector. If someone 
had said that to me fifteen years ago I would 
have said that you were whistling in the 
dark.
With the rising advent of robots, Fischer 
feels that unions will not be affected by fewer 
members because the unions strength lies in 
the relationship of the workers to the work
place. A union is whatever the workers are; 
unions are highly dynamic, he says.
Even though robots seem to be invading 
all facets of our lives (Fischer himself saw a 
robotized golf caddie in Arizona which fol
lowed the golfer carrying the sensor), 
Fischer feels that service industries will still 
provide good jobs with new kinds of train
ing. People will not automatically be disa result of these automatons. Case 
in point: even in a mildly automated factory, 
highly-skilled workers supervise the robots 
working on the assembly lines or conveyor 
belts and get paid top dollar, according to 
Fischer. The role of technicians versus non
technicians is undergoing great changes and 
the definitions of service and manufacturing* 
industries are screwed up.
The worker is of great concern to this man 
because the laborer has such a stake in the 
establishment of the country with such little 
mobility. He feels that simply because peo
ple cant perform a certain job doesnt mean 
that he is not aware of the situation sur
rounding him. The worker must benefit 
more from collective bargaining; thus, a 
continued on page 11
photo by Kathleen Drazenovich
delivered by Baron Guy de Rothschild
Admission is freeTickets are available in the Thursday, November 18, 1982Public Relations Office 5 p.m., Skibo Ballroom Baker Hall 160

---------------------------------------------------

November 16, 1982The TartanPage 11
Investment Club invests
With a better than 2/3rds vote, the Invest
ment Club agreed to make its first purchase. 
United Illuminating, a utility company, is
the stock the club chose.
Dean Galvin presented the prospective
investment in an atypical way. He started 
his case on the negative side by pointing out 
that commission costs (paid to stock brok
ers) will eat up the dividend payments that 
the club would receive. But, he said, if 
you believe, as I do, that the stock will go up 
1)4 points, then I would suggest voting yes. 
Galvin then went on to stress the reasons 
why the stock price would appreciate. 
Because oil prices have declined and with 
the recent approval of a rate hike, United 
Illuminating was able to increase its profits 
by 37%. Also utility stocks, such as this, are 
sensitive to interest rates; when rates go 
down, more people buy utilities as the divi
dend payment guarantees an investor a
fixed % return on his money. In this case, it is
11.3%. Probably the point that swayed the 
club the most is that a utility stock is a good 
investment for an efficient diversified port
folio. It allows the investor to feel confident 
that a portion of the portfolio has a secure 
return. When the votes were in , approxi
mately 78% of the members felt optimistic 
about United Illuminating.
The club then discussed and agreed to buy 
50 shares at a price of 25%. This will committ 
about 20% of the fund.
Besides approving their first investment, 
the club was afforded the opportunity to 
hear an inspiring lecture given by Katherine 
Schipper, who is a professor at CMU and 
teaches in GSLA and AMS.
Each member was given a copy of an 
annual report from the company of Vulcan 
Inc., Schipper by-passed the straightcontinued on page 20
Tobias takes a look at lighter side of life
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffivriter
Notice that this column only reprints 
items from two different years, rather than 
three as was the normal number. This is in 
part so I can devote more space to each item, 
but it is mostly because I was too lazy to find 
a third issue. If you like this format, maybe I 
could get lazier and only do one item, or 
maybe none at all. However, it would be 
some trick to spread nothing out over a 
whole column, so I suppose there always 
must be some content of facts on this 
column, unlike much of what the Student 
Government puts out.
30 YEARS AGO: NOV. 18, 1952
Ive reprinted plenty of serious stuff in thisFischer is a 
diverse man
continued from page 10
strategy must be developed to more pro
foundly understand worker motivation. 
We have to address ourselves to the facts 
and find out what everything is about. Ques
tionnaires are a substitute for knowing the 
facts. When people dont know the facts, 
they use a questionnaire and claim they 
know., Fischer asserts.
For example, Fischer says that about 16 to 
17% of senior citizens are in the work force, 
but these facts are produced from a data base 
and not from facts. They dont really know 
how many of them work," he said.
Fischer is striving for a new representa
tion of labor through finding out the facts 
and presenting them truthfully. The project 
on comaparative labor relations between the 
U S. and Japan holds great potential for 
Fischer; he is obviously anxious to verbalize 
his own convictions about honestly depictlng labor relations and publishing accurate 
findings.  rhe real world is mindboggling; 
what we dont know is unbelieveable. We 
Heed some awareness of perceiving facts, 
Fischer stressed. Its not enough to gather 
facts.
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
Fc* a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
column, so I am now reprinting some of the 
lighter articles. Last week I reprinted a 
funny poem protesting the rule requiring 
students to leave their books outside the 
bookstore when they go in. This was from 
1952. This seems to have been a good year 
for humor in The Tartan, because the next 
issue had this evaluation of the Carnegie 
Tech grading systems, by John J. John Jr., 
as told to R. Durstine, also known as the 
Alchemist.
Perhaps the most popular method of 
evaluating students is the old step system, 
where students names are put on cards and 
thrown down a flight of steps. The position 
in which they land determines the grade.
Another grading method which he points 
out is the class participation approach: 
A person who talks a great deal is judged to 
be either a genius or a bluff. On this consid
eration he receives either A or D. That per
son who says but litde is either profound or 
rather stupid (B or D). The one who talks 
not at all must be either very profound or 
very stupid (A or R). Finally, the student 
who never appears in class must be either so 
bright he does not need to attend or so lazy 
he doesnt want to. Marks in this category 
range from top to bottom, depending cm the 
state of the professional ulcers at the time of 
grading.
On the same page is a cigarette ad claim
ing in large letters that NOSE, THROAT, 
and Accessory Organs not Adversely 
Affected By Smoking Chesterfields. FIRST 
SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED 
ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE. It is 
claimed that A responsible consulting 
organization conducted a study, which was 
done by a competent medical specialist, 
showing no harm of any sort. The organiza
tion and medical specialist are conspicu
ously not named. I think they also neglected 
to check for lung cancer.
70 YEARS AGO: NOV. 14, 1912
Last week, the buildings were flooded 
with pink sheets of paper carrying sundry
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medial clinic offering abortion counseling  free pregnancy I Oils
 personal counseling  birth control services gynecological care
362*2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center
2*1 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Center
fetvdvcal C eotei (Ad Bticwif frtilhowr tight (Mh Moor) 211 North WMIieW Hrrrl Pittsburgh. PA ISMk
printed matter, supposedly English, telling 
of the wonderful Tech Night to be held in a 
downtown theater on the evening of the 
Westminster game. Now, the Tartans 
understanding of a Tech Night is entirely 
different from this cheap commercial affair, 
run not at all for the benefit of the students, 
but for that of the theater. Just why Carnegie 
should continue to allow the representatives 
of this theater to use her name for an adver
tising scheme is beyond the comprehension 
of the Tartan, which can very well 
remember the real Tech Nights, gotten up 
and managed by the students . .. The pur
pose of the promoters is one of pure com
mercialism and not one of Carnegie loyalty, 
and it is high time that a stop is put to this
cheapening of the name of our Alma 
Mater.
Our Athletic Editor objects to having 
you notice his form as he runs up and down 
the side lines. Please dont look.
The Tartan in those days seemed to be full 
of jokes, which were apparendy placed as 
fillers. The following is an example: 
Your Honor, said the arrested chauf
feur, I tried to warn the man, but the horn 
would not work.
Then why did you not slacken speed 
lather than run him down?
A light seemed to dawn upon the 
prisoner.
Thats one on me. I never thought of 
that.
BROADCASTS EACH WEEK
NCW5M0N-9PM
NW.I?FR!-MID-SHAKI
CONCERT SERIES
AaPR \m; ESPhilipGlass
N0V.I7WED-?PMNOmSAT-MlDCOLLEGE CONCERT HOUR THIS WEEK!
IThearfn.reoDptD eImnihenfa femJ nt wSthS.TieSI miS.nUNION LEADER ALEJANDRO M0LIA LARA
PHONE CALLS WILL BE TAKEN M
NO/I8 M-NOON: LIVE INTERVIEW WITH MATTHEW \AKY
rnmrn(M

---------------------------------------------------

ELECTION: Candidates for
Polling times:when: November 17 and 18where: Skibo Lobbytime: 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Five seats avaiable)
H&SS (Two seats available)
(Two seats available)
Tom McCarthy
I remember when the neighborhood kids 
were building a tree fort in a tree close to 
their house, their father did not help, but 
watched them with amusement. That night 
after building the fort the kids spent the 
night. It was a windy night and coinciden
tally the kids had not used enough nails and 
as the tree swayed, the fort was thrown into a 
$3000 patio totally demolishing it and caus
ing serious temporary damage to Brandy 
and Todd. Being my young and having 
never liked them much I laughed as I 
thought to myself Thats what you get.
If I win youll have to tell me what you 
want, Ill try to get it.
P.S. What can you say in 100 words?
Bruce Crain
Have you had enough? Are you tired of 
student senators who do nothing after they 
are elected to office? Student senate can 
accomplish so much, provided that there are 
dynamic senators who care more about 
improving the quality of student life that 
the quality of their resumes. We need sena
tors that are really willing to work hard to 
solve problems such as the lade of a student 
union and the unreasonable tuition rate and 
who are unafraid of challenging the admin
istration. I firmly believe that if the student 
body is willing to make enough noise, the 
administration will listen and long overdue 
changes will finally be seen. If you agree, 
support me with your vote and I promise 
that our voices will be heard.
Rob Devoy
Its time for a change. Student senate has*, 
to become more active in the administration  
of this university. It must rise above the petty 
personality confilicts and bureaucratic bull
shit that it has always been so famous for 
and become more radical. Maybe not as radi
cal as in the Vietnam War era, but at least 
radical enough to stand up for what the 
students need and deserve. Ironically 
enough, some of senates most notable 
accomplishment, such as the tuition rally, 
took place without the help of most of the 
senators. Even though I am not a senator 
helped plan and carry out the tuition rally. 
New senators, who are not afraid to openly 
challenge the administration mut be found.
I would like to be one of them.
>-  ... .jjSt : 3 :* :'fScott Safier
What does MCS need in a student sena
tor? MCS needs someone who has expe
rience working with the senate and Warner 
Hall, someone who works for what MCS 
wants and needs and representing those 
who elects him. MCS needs someone who is 
willing to work, not someone who wants a 
nice resume! Scott Safier is this person. 
Being a senior and having served on senate 
for the past year, I have heard many com
plaints and have worked toward finding 
solutions. I have served as Finance Commit
tee chair and as chairman of a committee 
that investigated th IBM-CMU computer 
deal. Currently, I am involved with the joint 
SDC/Senate committee investigating com
puting, serving on the Academic Affairs 
committee, and trying to get a co-op in 
MCS. For someone not afraid to work for 
what MCS wants, vote Scott Safier.
MCS(Two seats available)
Franklin P. Reese III
Hey kids! Guess what time it is. Its vote 
for student senate time. (Boisterous cheering 
in the background.)
The conservative incumbents and the 
slightly left of center, slightly more radical 
outsiders are squared off once again. Its up 
to you, the members of MCS, to decide who 
will represent you for the coming year. You 
say you dont know who to vote for. What 
the hell, vote for me. I may not be finely 
tuned to parliamentary procedure, but I 
promise not to bore you to death (nor to 
sneakily rewrite the senate constitution). 
Scientists from Ben Franklin to Linus Paul
ing have questioned the political status quo. 
Just who among the present MCS senators 
have seriously questioned the status quo at 
CMU? Oh yeah, the rally. How many pres
ent senators really worked hard for it? How 
many non-senators worked much harder for 
it? Think about it. See you at the polls; be 
there or be n-dimensional.
War is peace.
Slavery is freedom.
Tuition is cheap.*
Thanks George. Youve got one year and 
45 days to go.
Joe Guarino
Howdy! Im Joe Guarino, a sophomore 
in math. Not knowing what to say to gain 
your support, Ill tell you something about 
myself.
Though this is my first involvement with] 
college student government, I was exten
sively active with my high schools student 
government, culminating in my student 
body presidency, senior year.
Presently I am actively involved in CMU 
as: a student advisor on the 1984-85 I ukion 
Planning Committee; an SDC rep andadvi 
sor to the SDC president for off-campu* 
affairs, researching the implementation 
an on-campus mail system for off-camp^ 
residents and commuters; a member 
Alpha Phi Omega, a CMU community^ 
vice organization; and the Housing Offi#5 
manager of the cash boxes.
People may attend the senate meetings1 
see what is happening with adminstrau^ 
and academic affairs; Id like to have ^ 
active role in any final decisions affect^ 
the student body. 
x Thank vou!
Orpheus Allison
In recent weeks, CMU students have shown 
that they are willing to question decisions 
affecting their stay here at the university. 
Also, they have shown that they are unwil
ling to allow the university administration 
to ram its decisions into the orifices of the 
student body. For short the student body 
does not wish to be screwed into oblivion by 
the administration.
The students must continue to demand 
their rights as citizens to question and 
demand answers for the university and to do 
this they need a strong, vocal group of repre
sentatives to support them and to help them 
in this search for clarity from the university. 
I intend to make sure that we the students 
will not be abused like we have been again.MCS
Todd W. Rieina
As a student senator I feel I can provide 
competent leadership as well as have a good 
time. I feel the effort behind the cureent 
senate is good but it lacks direction. If elected 
I will try to keep you informed of new poli
cies that will affect you, the student and use 
your input as a guide to provide new direc
tion to the senate. The time to act is while 
the policies are in the planning stages not 
after they have already been implemented.

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Student Government
' - ; f   ' ' 
III
Steven J. Weller
istrations attitude toward senate and its wil
lingness to cooperate with senate is directly 
related to apparent support from students. 
In other words, dont complain about any
thing to a senator and expect anything since 
the adminstration will believe that senate 
does not represent the students.
My personal platform is quite short. It 
simply states, When elected I will try to 
help make senate more familiar to students 
through belter communications.
I am a sophomore ChemE who would 
appreciate your help in gaining a senate 
seat. I have been active in the SDC where I 
am currently chairman of the Rules, Policy 
and Planning Committee. I was recendy 
appointed a member of the joint SDC/Senate committee on computing. I feel that I 
have had enough experience with the stu
dent government to be effective. Some 
things Id like to see happen are: building 
rapport between the administration and stu
dents to give real input into tuition and 
adminstrations computing plans; improve
ments to students social facilities; and a sys
tem in which professors who receive poor 
evaluations from their students would be 
required to take a course on instruction (at 
$7500 a year, we deserve competent instruc
tors). If you have any other concerns or sug
gestion. Im always willing to talk. My 
phone number is 621-7252.
Srikanth (Sri) Rajan
Dear Students:
Tomorrow and Thursday, your vote will 
decide the senatorial positions in the CMU 
student senate for 1983.
I am writing this statement as an inter
ested student in our continuing effort to 
strengthen student senates influence on 
administration, on faculty and on matters of 
general policy. In recent months, critical 
decisions were made by the administrauon, 
and as youve probably heard, student senate 
and students were the last ones to be con
sulted on these decisions.
In this coming year alone, many of you 
will have numerous concerns over innova
tions in teaching and compuung, and still 
others will be quick to bring up questions 
on academic affairs, on tuition and on gen
eral campus proceedings. We, the student 
senate, represent you. It is your duty to bring 
any matters of interest to our attention.
Given this brief description of our goals, I 
urge you to vote for the candidate of your 
choice and to come to the senate forum 
Tuesday night, 6:00 p.m. (either in the Skibo 
Ballroom or Wherrett Room), to meet other 
candidates and myself before you cast your 
vote tomorrow for me. Thank you.
Stephen R. Pomraning
Being a large community of students 
attending this institution, a body for repres
enting our interests is imperative. My inten
tions for gaining a position on the student 
senate are basically to ensure a proper mode 
of decision making concerning various stu
dent activities, and a rightful medium for 
which student opinions are made known to 
the administration.
It is my desire to represent the student 
population and to contribut to the student 
senates endeavor to more acurately link we 
the students with all brandies of CMUs 
policy directors.
For these reasons, I respectfully and sin
cerely request an opportunity to hold a seat 
on the student senate.
b16o
one seat  no one running 
SUPA 
one seat  no one running
Steven J. Weller
For those of you who are actually going 
to vote for a CIT senator read on, but for 
those who are not, consider this: the adminJeremy A. Theil
Most people ask why should they vote, 
senate doesnt do anything. The only way to 
change that is to elect people who will work 
to get senate moving. Senate does have office 
hours in an effort to create communications, 
but few people take advantage of it. It is up 
to senate to earn the reputation that makes it 
worthwhile for people to talk with them. To 
do that, senators need to go out and talk 
with their constituents. In turn, their con
stituents need to give the senators their ideas 
and opinions.
Ever since I started running last spring, 
my basic operating principle has been to 
talk with people and base my platform on 
their ideas. It is you that will make senate 
effective.
Edward D. Kogan
There have been some drastic changes 
recently at CMU making 1982 a crucial year 
for all of us. This stresses the need for an 
active and responsive student senate.
My name is Ed Kogan, I am a sophomore 
in EE. Currently I am active with EEs Stu
dent Advisory Committee, a sounding 
board for students and faculty and a 
medium through which common goals can 
be accomplished. This year, as you may 
have noticed, we have made tremendous 
progress in responding to the needs of the 
department.
Please do not underestimate the impor
tance and power of the student senate, espe
cially now. Student government needs 
concerned, enthusiastic, and qualified repre
sentatives. Elect me and I will make the 
student senate work for you!
John Pane
I am a sophomore in electrical engineer
ing. I am running for re-election because I 
have the experience necessary for effective 
leadership. As a member of the Rules Com
mittee I have become familiar wil senate, 
and with its constitution. With this knowl
edge I can present your problems to the 
proper persons, and rally support for 
legislation.
Senate has acquired a reputation for its 
squabbling and lack erf accomplishment. 
My goals are to develop a more concise set of 
rules to help streamline senates operation, 
and to make senate more visible to the 
students.
Please vote to re-elect John Pane.
Adolph DiSandro
Being on student senate this semester has 
shown me the lack of student input into the 
administration. The students finally want 
t0 get involved, yet what they say means 
nothing to the university. Why not a com
puter srience major now? Why not English 
speaking TAs? When will the classes get 
smaller? The list goes on. Student senate is 
now responding to what the students want, 
and if re-elected, I will try my best to get the 
university to also respond to these issues. 
But remember, whats most important is
>ur vote! Its the first step toward student
mput.
Laura Sabadell
My name is Laura Sabadell and I am 
running for re-election for the CIT senator
ial seat. I have served on senate since early 
February and have been the chairperson of 
the Finance Committee. Additionally, I 
serve on the Computing Committee. Pres
ently, I am in the process of rewriting the 
fiscal policy, with the treasurer and the dean 
of Student Affairs in order to make it more 
efficient and organized. I am asking you for 
your vote so that I can continue to work for 
the constituents I have represented in CIT

---------------------------------------------------

octivitie/ p boo rd
Next Monday will be the 
19 th anniversary of the 
assassination of JFK.
DAVID LIFTON
author of the New York Times bestseller Best Evidence contends that one assassin alone could not have killed JFK.
Come hear what he has to say.
Monday, November 227:30 pmSkibo Ballroom
Brought to you by AB Lectures. 
Funded by Activities Fee.
The bookstore will sell copies of 
Best Evidence at the lecture.

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Pa ul imKramer
Entertainment.
Billy Joel, crowd both 
enjoy Arena performance
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
Billy Joel is a musician who loves to per
form. At the Civic Arena last Thursday 
night, Joel expertly and eagerly guided the 
responsive audience through various 
moods, starting the show slowly 
and carefully, perhaps to setde 
himself in and to try to click 
with the fans, 
method he used to create an 
appropriate chemistry with his audience, 
Joel succeeded in capturing and holding 
everyone. All eyes followed the singer as he 
ran from piano to electric piano to organ to 
synthesizer; the 32 year-old New Yorker 
seemed to be recharging himself as he 
jammed on the four different keyboards. 
Considering his motorcycle accident last 
spring in which he broke his right wrist and 
left thumb, Joel was surprisingly energetic 
in pounding the keys.
At one point during Angry Young 
Man, however, he did shake his left hand 
and grimace-apparently more out of an 
annoyance for the old injury than for the 
pain itself. His tour, consequently, is tenta
tive; his recovery may very well be impeded 
by his tendency to play so hard that he regu? larly snaps the thick bass piano strings. 
Allentown, from The Nylon Cur
tain, was his opener-a smart idea to warm 
up to the largely Pennsylvanian audience. 
(Does anyone remember when I warmed 
up for the Doobie Brothers at the Syria 
Mosque? Oh, all of eight people.)
After sarcastically commenting on the 
great football season, he conceded seriously 
that you guys were doing well in pre
season, its too bad. As an afterthought, he 
kidded about the Jets potential to top the 
i,Steelers. That comment didnt sit too well 
with the approximate 13,000 Steelers fans 
and Joel received a thunderous round of
playful boos.
Joel is equally comfortable bantering 
back and forth with the audience as he is 
singing. He kept the talk to a minimum, 
however, mostly relying on conversation to 
break from long sets or have a cigarette. Joel 
was amazed that a fire marshall was stand
ing about 20 feet from his piano when he 
was smoking: Seriously, theres this fire 
marshall standing right over there! Joel 
exclaimed, pointing to the unlit depths of 
the stage.
The cigarette, he explained, was for 
effect, but it proved to be the number 
which started the current flowing. Joel 
introduced the Gay Caballeros, a bunch 
of roadies, he explained, who do all the 
unnoticed jobs on the tour and deserve to get 
on stage.
Joel started playing around with a typical 
Spanish-type melody and broke into Sti
letto, a great song from 52nd Street 
which is all but ignored on the radio. Every 
one of the Caballeros, decked out in a Lone 
Ranger mask and ready to snap his fingers 
at specific intervals, looked like a bodyguard 
for Meadoaf, but the group proved skilled 
enough to display its snapping prowess on 
Dont Ask Me Why as well.
Stiletto accomplished what Joel 
intended: it set the atmosphere and really 
sparked the audience. After this upturning 
in mood, Joel seemed more relaxed and 
comfortable running around the stage 
rather than vegetating at his piano.
This was one of the few songs on which 
the band improvised; most of the others 
sounded exactly like the studio versions.; 
The sound effects from Scandanavian 
Skies and Goodnight Saigon, perhaps 
the two best tracks from his latest album, 
The Nylon Curtain, were exacdy repro
duced at the concert. This slight deviation 
from his concert standard of using only the
Billy Joel played the Civic Arena last Thursday ending finally after two encores.
available stage instuments was typical of 
Joels attempt to reach out and dispel any 
stereotype of his being just a pop singer. 
The stage was more elaborate than from 
the Glass Houses tour. One of the key
boards was electronically elevated a few feet 
above the stage, the lighting was a bit more 
striking and dramatic, and during Scenes 
from An Italian Restaurant, members of 
the band were drinking and socializing
Peter Gabriel plays at Stanley tomorrow
By CHUCK FRIEDLANDER
Tartan Staffwriter
Since Peter Gabriel left Genesis in the 
summer of 1975, his musical and lyrical 
references have expanded gready, while his 
former band has tended toward a more com
mercial Top 40 approach to rock and roll. 
While his albums have gained acclaim for 
their new approaches to modem music, they 
have not attracted the commercial response 
that often accompanies a man of his talent.
It is thus with respect and musical integ
rity that Gabriel will fill the Stanely Theater 
tomorrow night with his many shades of 
sound.
rhe concert which is a Dicesare-Engler 
production and begins at 7:30, will open up
with Electric Guitars, an exciting new band 
which is relatively unknown, but get some 
airplay on non-commerical stations, and are 
well worth coming early to see. This is a big 
week at the Stanley for afficionados of new 
music: Devo plays there tonight at 7:30 in 
support of their new album Oh No, Its 
Devo and hit single Peekaboo, and the 
Busboys are opening up for Linda Ronstadt 
on Thursday night, also at 7:30.
Peter Gabriels first three albums were 
untitled, but not unappreciated. They show 
a development from the lyrical quality 
which was associated with his work in 
Genesis to a newer, more rhythmic 
approach. On his latest LP, the fourth of his 
solo career, the record company won the
PETER GABRIEL
album title fight and called it Security. 
The single from this release, Shock the 
Monkey, is bringing him more attention, 
with both greater radio aiplay and video 
exposure. The video, which is played often 
on MTV, the cable Music Televisionstation, 
is one of the most exciting videosongs 
produced to date by anyone. It shows 
Gabriel at a desk, in the city, in a cave, in a 
room with collapsing ceiling, sinking into a 
body of water, with and without tribal mask 
makeup, with three dwarfs grabbing at his 
arms and back, and also features the ape 
from Raiders of the Lost Ark. If Gabriel goes 
with a video backdrop a la Devo or, more 
recendy, the Clash, the dramatization them
selves should be worth the price of admis
sion. However, his innovative brand of 
music is what his stage show, or any other, 
will ultimately rest upon. He is indeed in the 
forefront of studio sound technology, using 
among other instruments, the Fairlight 
Computerized Synth which lets him take 
any sound and reproduce it on a keyboard. 
In his own words Youll find a solo on 
paving stones and scraped exhaust pipes 
somewhere, and lots of distoited 
instrumentation.
An artist like Peter Gabriel, who has left 
the comforts of guaranteed success to forge 
ahead in the frontier of new sounds, deserves 
respect, if not adulation. He views himself as 
a weekend pop star. I wouldnt like it to 
become a career. It is quite rare to see an 
artist who is in the music business for the joy 
of it, not the money. His eagerly awaited 
appearance tomorrow night offers Pitts
burgh a chance to see this exciting and welltraveled lead vocalist and showman live.
around a table with a red and white check
ered tablecloth.
In addition, innovative saxophonist 
Richie Cannata is no longer with the band, 
replacing him is hotdog Mark Rivera, who 
plays sax, flute, and percussion. Another 
new member, Dave Lebolt, plays electric 
piano and synthesizer when the band leader 
is busy tearing around the stage. Bassist 
Doug Stegmeyer and rhythm guitarist Rus
sell Javors were as solid as usual, but were 
fairly unassuming. Drummer Liberty 
DeVitto and lead guitarist David Brown 
(who played with Simon and Garfunkel in 
their Central Park reunion concert) were a 
bit more vivacious and gregarious, comple
menting Joels natural energetic spirit.
After playing a number of songs from the 
continued on page 17Grad students give reading
By TERI BREIER
Tartan Staffwriter
The featured attraction in the Back Room 
at Gustines last Tuesday night was a poetry 
reading by three CMU graduate students  
Jeffrey Schwartz, Judith Harris and Rosaly 
DeMaios Roffman. Their presentation was 
part erf the Tuesday Night Reading Series 
sponsored by Pitts Writing Program in an 
effort to provide a forum for local writers.
Schwartz, who teaches a GSIA course in 
Business Communications as well as one in 
Survey of Genres: Poetry, likes to write 
about people he knows and events he expe
rienced, but changes them just enough so 
they are not a perfect mirror image of real 
life.
One poem he read Tuesday, entitled For 
Dorothy Fuldheim, Dean of TV Newscas
ters is about his changing perception of a 
Cleveland anchorwoman that he grew up 
watching.
Three more poems he read will soon be 
published in an anthology  The Anxiety 
of Influence, Abandoned Copper Mine in 
Manti, Utah, and Three Gifts for a Friend 
Bom on Leap Year, which is a reflection 
continued on pege 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 16, 1982
Video music good and growing, but has problems
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the latest additions to the world of 
entertainment is video music. Newsweeks 
On Campus recently ran an article on the 
subject, and, as Im sure most people have 
read it, I see no need to repeat the informa
tion. However, there is one aspect of this 
topic in need of illumination: How good is 
it?
Most entertainment fads are not without 
their good points. Video music is no excep
tion. First, it entertaining. That is, people 
can watch videos as they would television, as 
an activity entirely by itself. (Except, of 
course, for the inevitable munching.)
Also, one is exposed to concert and rare 
versions of popular songs. Bands who do 
not release live albums will often produce 
live videos, which are good for their musical 
aspect alone. Two top examples are Van 
Halen and Triumph, who seem to out-do 
themselves on stage.
Finally, many new bands gain their U.S. 
exposure through video. Bands such as 
ABC, Duran Duran, and Fun Boys Three as 
well as soloist Aldo Nova had videos on 
American Television long before their 
albums had U.S. releases.
One of the primary negative aspects is just 
this last point. A majority of videos are made 
by fledging new-wave bands, which is fine if
this is your particular taste in music, but it 
severely limits the appeal base. (Imagine, for 
example, if all movies were science fiction, 
or horror.)
Another difficulty is few of the videos 
have much meaning; in fact, some, such as 
J. Geils Freeze Frame (in which band 
members have a paint war) or Quarter 
Flashs Harden my Heart (I still havent 
figured this one out) are completely 
pointless.
This is not to say there are no good videos. 
Rainbows Cant Happen Here, an unus
ually placed nuclear war protest song, won a 
well-deserved grammy, and Invisible Sun 
by the Police made such a statement against
Old sound on new solo album
Fagen keeps Steely Dan sound in Nightfly
By KEITH SENIOR
Tartan Staffwriter
Ex-Steely Dan member Donald Fagen 
(composer, keyboardist and vocalist) just 
released a new solo album entitled The 
Nightfly.
X Upon first hearing the LP, I
tried to distinguish Fagens solo 
style from Steely Dan. Apparentiy Fagen was the heart and 
soul of the group because his distinctive 
vocals and compositions undoubtedly car
ried over into his solo ablum. One may have 
hoped for a different style, a new sound, but 
nonetheless his formula is calculated, it 
works and yes, its sounding even better.
The opening song .I.G.Y. (Interna
tional Geophysical Year) portrays Fagens 
talent for catchy choruses, undefined twists 
in lyrics and a driving flow for the rhythm 
section. It is almost inevitable not to find
someone listening or singing along with the 
chorus: What a beautiful world this could 
be, what a glorious time to be free.
With such a fine producer as Gary Katz 
and top studio musicians like Larry Carlton 
(guitar), Michel Brecker (sax), Jeff Porcaro 
(drums), Marcas Miller (bass), Greg Phillinganes (keyboards) and Valarie Simpson 
(backing vocals), the album is destined to be 
a classic. All the compositions and arrange
ments are by Fagen except for Ruby Baby 
(a Lieber, Stoller tune).
Keeping faithfully to his formula with 
Steely Dan for ventures into rock, jazz, 
calypso and blues Fagen furnishes us with: 
The Goodbye Look, a calypso song, 
Walk Between Raindrops, an up tempo 
blues tune, Maxine, a jazzy ballad 
sparkled with Fagens patented vocal har
monies, seemingly reminiscent of a love 
from the past. New Frontier and The
Nightfly give us a taste of many flavors, 
musically and lyrically to prove their 
defiance for classification.
Included on the lyric sleeve is the concep>- 
tual idea of the album: The songs on this 
album represent certain fantasies that might 
have been entertained by a young man grow 
ing up in the remote suburbs of a northeast
ern city during the late fifties and early 
sixties i.e.; one of my general height, weight 
and build  D.F. Fagen brings out these 
fantasies skillfully in every composition on 
the album.
The albums variety invites appeal to the 
mass of music lovers. The success and fol
lowing of Steely Dan will definitely con
tinue with Fagens solo efforts and no doubt 
keep his talents a potent force in the music 
industry. Nightfly is meticulously pro
duced and performed and is a must for any 
Donald Fagen fan.
governmental oppression it was banned in 
England.
The greatest medium for video music is 
cable television, the most obvious source 
being Music Televisions (MTV). In addi
tion to twenty-four hour video music, it features Saturday night concerts and other 
spjecials. An unusual mixture of primarily 
new wave and some heavy metal, MTV is 
best taken in small doses during commer
cials or half-time.
The features, however, tend to be better 
than the station as a whole. Other cable 
mediums include HBO (Home Box Office), 
which shows concerts and an occasional 
video clip filler, and PRISM (Philadelphia 
Regional In-Home Sprts and Movies) 
which has a short feature called Sound
track which is actually a set erf videos.
Those without pay television have a 
much smaller selection but a much greater * 
quality erf video music. The syndicated 
Video Jukebox and Don Kirshners 
Rock Concert are much mare selective 
about what they show, considering they do 
have to compete in the Neilson Ratings.
. Overall, video music in small amounts is 
tolerable. But before it can compete with 
radio or television, there must be a marked 
increase in both quality and variety of the 
videos. ,
Additionally, it takes away one of the 
most app>ealing aspects of music; to be able 
to listen and do something else at the same 
time.
While its a nice idea to be able to see and 
hear your favourite songs, somehow, the 
images the fcand portrays dont always mix 
with w'hat they seem to say. Its often best to 
leave these things to the listeners 
imagination.
SENATE 
CANDIDA TES 
FORUM
Where: Skibo Ballroom 
When: Tuesday Nov. 16, at 6 pm 
Why: A cha nee for you to meet 
the Senate candidates 
and ask questions.
This announcement funded by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

November 16, 1982The TartanPage 17
"E. T. " goes home to make money for Universal
By ERIC PATTERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Share the magic, the ads proclaim. E.T., 
a movie that radiates a warmth never 
| captured before.
From a film as coldly calculating as a 
land-fraud con-man?
E.T. is one of those few films pro
grammed to make money.
That statement may seem nonsensical. 
Every studio wants to make profit off of a 
movie, of course. Most studios are adept at 
hiding their true intentions, however. Uni
versal Studios was not.
One obvious giveway was the enormous 
number of commercial plugs that pop up 
throughout the movie. It was a great way to 
pay some of the rent before the film was even 
released. But who goes to a movie to see 
commercials?
Even the most avid fans of E. T., the 
people who bought E. T. dolls, posters, 
drinking mugs, toothbrushes, and electric 
shavers as soon as they hit the market, will 
have to admit that this film has enough
plugs to fill a two hour sitcom. E. T. 
might as well have held a bag of Reeses 
Pieces next to his face and ranted about its 
new and improved aspects.
Dont get me wrong. The product plugs 
bothered me, but not enough to keep me 
from enjoying the film. I enjoyed it as I 
watched it, I enjoyed it as I remembered its 
golden moments for the following days. Its 
a film that no doubt will win an Academy 
Award nomination for best film of the year.
But then I started thinking about why I 
had enjoyed E. T. I looked at how I truly 
felt about the film, not what I was supposed 
to feel. Thats when the film diminished 
greatly before my eyes. Thats when the 
adorable extra-terrestrial became a clammy, 
slime-covered puppet.
Many have brought up the point of 
Steven Spielberg manipulating his audien
ces feelings in E. T. Whats wrong with 
that? The ability to create a mood is one of 
the greatest tools an artist can wield. What is 
truly wrong with E. T. is that every 
created emotion is artificial, devoid of even
the illusion of sincerity. The phony emo
tions are just as bad as the false needs for 
products created by TV commercials.
In E. T., the audience doesnt feel by its 
own senses. Instead, the audience feels obli
gated; obligated, for example, to laugh at 
the movies cloying cuteness. The viewer 
feels obligated to accept the movies cliched 
theme (the heartlessness of science vs. the 
compassion of the human spirit, a theme 
easily lifted from any Star Trek rerun). As a 
reaction, the viewer blinks his glazed eyes 
and murmurs, How true, how true.
And, of course, as the music swells to a 
thundering crescendo, the audience feels 
obligated to cry when finally E. T. must go 
home. This, of course, is well placed so that 
the sentimental moviegoer feels obligated to 
run out and buy a $15 E. T. doll. But if I 
dont cry, does it mean Im some com pas
sion less butcher, ready to run over some 
childs dog as soon as I leave the theatre? I 
was glad E. T. got to go home. At least hell 
be somewhere else besides Pittsburgh this 
Thanksgiving.
Spielberg is just too capable of generating 
real emotion than to continue with all this 
phoniness. In Duel and The Sugarland 
Express he was able to create a genuine 
concern for his characters and their prob
lems. In Jaws, Spielberg lets his audience 
laugh at themselves through his snapshots 
of human nature He enthralled his 
audience with mystery and fascination with 
Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Its a 
shame that E. T. is so different than these 
genuine and endearing films.
Behind all of the superficiality of E. T. 
is some money-hungry entrepreneur. But as 
long as people are willing to shell out loads 
of cash, hes perfectly justified. So much for 
Hollywoods glamour.
If you want to be really happy for two 
hours, dont hesitate. Go out and see E. 
T., again and again and again if youve 
already seen it (the high wears off, you 
know). But dont expect me to be in the seat 
next to you. Ill probably be watching 
Casablanca on TV.This year in Kresge . . .Demise of the new play festival: original plays unworthy
! By DEBBIE NIR
I Tartan Staffwriter
My, my, what a difference a year makes. 
|* This stuff is fresh and new, and you have to 
I rely upon your own training, talent, and 
I imagination make it good, said Assistant 
j Drama Department head Don Marinelli a 
I year ago in Focus, on the departments 1981- I 82 season of original plays.
In the same story, acting major Robbin 
I Slade agreed, adding, If Broadway people 
I are willing to take a risk, why shouldnt 
I Carnegie?
I dont know Robbin, but Carnegies not. 
I Last year the drama department bravely 
| offered two original musicals and the New 
I Play Festival. While we can safely say none
were Broadway bound, despite the drama 
department having yet to realize that theres 
more than fifty minutes from CMU to 
Broadway, the productions gave drama stu
dents a rare chance to create original roles.
All of the projects played to full houses. 
For once Pittsburghers were offered a chance 
to see fresh theatrical minds in action. The 
Kresge has always had the charm of an offBroadway theatre and last year it had the 
vehicles to show it off.
But the times they are a changing. This 
year there will be no provocative play festi
val. The reason? Organizers feel last years 
plays were not up to par. While I can only 
speak for the one act I viewed, the authors 
should have been given more encourage
ment than the unclassified awards pres
ented last spring. This year any original 
works will be produced in the less showy 
Studio Theatre.
Perhaps we should have forseen the festi
vals demise. They dont give out the 
Pulitzer Prize or the Nobel Peace Prize if
they dont feel they have a worthy candidate. 
You have to have a high standard, said 
Department Head Mel Shapiro about the 
unclassified awards. Well, Mr. Shapiro, 
do you remember a little award presented 
every year by the American Theater Wing 
continued on page 18
Joe! "Just the Way You Are
continued from page 15
popular 77 album, The Stranger, includ
ing Just the Way You Are, Shes Always 
a Woman, Movin Out, and The 
Stranger, Joel rocked and rolled with 
Pressure, Its Still Rock-n-Roll to Me, 
Sometimes a Fantasy, and finishing up 
with You May be Right.
The fans on the floor had rushed the 
stage, accepting the singers invitation to 
get up and dance to Its Still Rock-n-Roll 
to Me. The roaring, dancing, and singing 
fans were not about to let the band leave after 
enjoying only a few songs at the stage. After 
the fans pounded the floorboards and 
chanted Billy Joel!, the musicians 
returned. Joel, who had been wearing his 
usual punkish outfit-bright orange blazer, 
black tie, white shirt, and black jeansretumed for the encore having swapped the
orange blazer for a chic brown velvet dinner 
jacket.
While delivering his usually rowdy con
cert rendition of Big Shot, Joel was liter
ally climbing all over the place-on top of 
the enormous stand-up speakers on either 
sider of the stage as well as on his piano. The 
band said a half-hearted goodnight and 
returned for a second and final encore, 
Only the Good Die Young.
Unfortunately, although the band 
seemed to be thoroughly warmed up and 
raring to go, after a shade under two hours, 
the house lights went up and the Beatles 
melodic Goodnight was piped in.
Joel looked like he really wanted to play 
more, but his slightly hoarse voice and 
tender thumb may have gotten the better of 
him. Nevertheless, Joel turned in a sincere 
continued on page 22
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specialties in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
Alone 8t Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, with a minimum order of two (2) 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a 50% late submis
sion surcharge.Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 p.m.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Rates are: $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, and $8.00 for 
more than 50 words.Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 p.m.
ANNOUNCEMENTS/EVENTS
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 p.m.
LETTERS
Deadline: Friday before publication at 5:00 p.m.
For further information, contact Business Manager Louise CrocoU.Business hours: Tuesday, 4:30-6:00 p.m.
Thursday, 4:00-5:00 p.m.
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh. 15213
on campus: Skibo 50/52
Phone: (412) 578-2111/211224-hour answering machine: (412) 57&2113
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 16, 1982
"Ghost Sonata" showcases talent but not originality
qualities. Yzraely does this with the help 0f 
the make-up and some magnificent comic 
performances. Donning fire-engine red nail 
polish, sparkling jewelry, and purple hair 
the usually forgettable Nobleman (Bruce 
Blair) becomes an Andy Warhol nightmare 
creating an hysterical stir as he enters the 
house.'
The production fails to move us often 
because in the critical role of the Old Man 
Thomas Delventhal lacks the conniving, 
eerie quality necessary to keep us caring for 
the people he is destroying. It doesnt help 
that his voice jumps from that of a crotchety 
old man to a few notes higher than the 
student he is corrupting.
The key performances on the mainstage 
are Lisa Waltz as the Daughter and Philip 
Baker as Johansson.
Ms. Waltz is a walking volt of electricity, 
grabbing us with her painful screams and 
never letting go. Convincingly she shakes * 
and quivers in all the right places.
Servants Johansson and Bengtsson are 
continued on page 22
continued from pege 17
called the Tony Award. Then theres the 
Obie Award....
According to Shapiro, the purpose of the 
Play Festival was to welcome new playw
rights into the profession. How ironic it is 
that written in last years Festival program 
was the story of Georg Buchner whose fam
ily disapproved of Woyzeck. All the copies 
of the play, except one, were burned arid 
Buchner died a year later never to see his 
brilliant work staged. One wonders how 
much like Buchner the CMU playwrights 
feel.
Last Thursday evening the Drama 
Department opened their second play of the 
season-August Strindbergs classic The 
Ghost Sonata. While not an original CMU 
play, it does show that the department still 
does have guts. Strindbergs philosophical 
Chamber Play is a challenge to stage 
because of its dream-like quality and its flow 
between naturalism and expressionism.
The story is that of an Old Man exacting 
revenge on a mummvesque woman. Many
years earlier she had his child but married 
the colonel who had an affair with the Old 
Mans fiancee. The Old Man uses a Student 
to save his Daughter from the dishonesty of 
the household, while tearing down the other 
people in it. The Ghost Sonata is actually 
the story of lifes disillusionments as Strind
berg saw them-deceit, greed.
The production at the Kresge, directed by 
Yossi Yzraely, is worth viewing because it 
showcases an array of young talented actors 
and artists. Set Designer Robert Perdziola 
has created a cleverly macabre set, including 
a very intricate Island of the Dead swal
lowing up the bed-ridden daughter in the 
final scene.
The star of the first scene, unfortunately, 
is his wonderful but overwhelming 
wrought iron gate, spanning both ends of 
the stage. The gate, meant to separate the 
inside of the house from the Old Man and 
the Student on the outside, is sa distracting 
in all its hugeness one is bound to lose track 
of the dialogue. For those sitting in a side 
seat, the gate badly obstructs the view of the
inner house.
Perdziolas realistic sets are the only touch 
of necessary naturalism in this ethereally 
over-abundant production. While Strind
bergs words are meant to be spoken slowly 
and his silent pauses are as important as the 
words, director Yzraely is one beat too slow. 
Pauses for stage entrances are too long and 
much of the mime is with movement coach
ing by Jorge Guerra, is snail-paced. The 
Ghost Sonata can be done effectively in
ninety minutes but is here done in a bloated 
two hours.
Over production helps to stamp into the 
ground any thoughts of naturalism. 
Although heavy-handed make-up (credited 
to Kevin Ritter) has worked well in past 
productions, the blotchy application does 
nothing to enhance this production. Words 
alone can show which characters are the 
ones with pure souls. Do we really need the 
wavy witch-like noses on the characters with 
contaminated souls?
The Ghost Sonata works best when the 
director plays up some of this more absurd
CMU grad students find a creative outletReflections on childhood, mythology, people and events
continued from page 15
on events that approach and soon recede 
into the past, but never quite seem to occur.
The Iasi poem presented by him, The 
Carousel Driver is a tribute to William 
Charles Libby, a painter who died this past 
autumn. Schwartz feels a connection with 
the artists work; his paintings of Carousels 
seem to call out to the child within him.
Schwartz has been published in the Oak
land Review, CMUs literary magazine, and 
in the Alice James Poetry Cooperative of 
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Harris read selections from two books she 
has written  one,  Songs of the Moon, is 
soon to be published and the other, Pop
pies, was published when she was a gradu
ate student at Brown University.
When describing her books, she says, 
Songs is about voices of the natural world. 
The poems in it are songs of the night, a 
time without hours. Poppies, she feels is 
more autobiographical and in it she 
emphasizes the creative connection 
between the persona and the natural world.
To explain what compels her to write 
poetry, she borrows a quotation from Rilke, 
a German writer, who says that, art must be 
bom from necessity, and should it be ones 
compulsion to write, one must do it fully, 
completely, and with utter conviction.
Roffman has taught creative writing 
workshop in Japan as well as the U.S. She 
also edited the first poetry magazine Hawaii
has ever had while a graduate student at the 
University of Hawaii in Honolulu, and her 
work has appeared in many publications.
A poet since the age of thirteen, Roffmans poetry is connected to conscious
ness and mythology and she attempts to 
translate influences that everyone encoun
ters. She feels much of her poetry reflects
her interest in Japanese culture.
One poem she read Tuesday entitled 
Tithonus is an allusion to a Greek myth 
about a goddess, Dawn, who falls in love 
with a mortal.
Some of the other poems she read were 
Bus Ride in Germany, Address to my 
continued on page 22
A
"Fantasia" is fantastic
BY SRIKANTH RAJ AN
Tartan Staffumtrr
Dont let that $4 ticket price turn you 
away. Now Ive never seen Fantasia 
before. All I knew was that it had to do with 
Mickey being a sorcerer or something, in a
Coming Soon
Look forMOVIEM \ ( A / I N Iin the
next 
issue of your college newspaper.
Dont miss it!
blue, starry backdrop standing 
on a high plateau. Fantasia 
was originally released over 40 
years ago, and this recent rerelease is recorded on digital stereo sound.
Fantasia is divided into four parts.** 
First, it tells of the transformations in scen
ery during the seasons, as only Disney ani
mation can do; the moviehouse lit up as I 
saw a spectral array of colors exploding on 
the screen, and winged fairies, and other 
creatures flitting about. Then, it relates the 
inception of life up through the dinosaur 
era. The third fantasia is the famed The 
Sorcerers Apprentice, with Mickey as the 
impish mouse who takes sorcery into his 
own hands, or should I say, onto his own 
head, when his master is asleep. Mops-see 
the movie-multiply wildly and the casde 
well becomes a center of chaos. Finally, 
Fantasia swoops away to a mythological 
land like Greece: centaurs in love, cherubs 
flying everywhere, and angry lightning
gods. INEcontinued on page U
CJa charismatic 
VH prayer meetin 
(jevery Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information: 
262-3950.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Sports facilities at CMU need to be upgraded
enure football team decided to take their 
socks off at one time. Anyway, as I walk in, I 
see a plentiful assortment of apparatusses, 
weights, bars, but only one nautilus 
machine. First problem, the room is too 
small. Something as big as Thisde Hall 
would do nice. Second, wheres the wall to 
wall carpeting and the stereo system playing 
WPNT like they have in spas all over town? 
Third, wheres the beautiful girls in tight 
leotards instructing the students how to lift 
and at the same time serving cool drinks? 
(And for the women, professional body 
builders who serve the same purpose.) Hey, 
for $10,000 a year we should get better.
Next on the agenda are the infamous racquetball courts. The first problem is trying 
to find them. There are no signs and if one 
doesnt have a compass to reach the inner 
catacombs of Skibo Gym it is almost imposcontmued on page 20
By WILLIAM A. HEYSE
Tartan Staffivriter
In a key game Saturday the CMU hockey 
club buzzed the University of Pittsburghs 
net for 47 shots, 8 of which crossed the line. 
Pitt meanwhile tallied 14 shots, with 3 of 
j, those going in.
The first Tartan goal came early in the 
first period, when Andy Andrejko blasted 
one in on a pass from defenseman Bill 
Heyse. Exactly 2 minutes later defenseman 
Tim Carlin put one in with some help from 
Rick Samuelson and Ted Dawson. Midway 
! through the period the Heyse brothers com
bined with Eric Spray to add yet another, 
Don scoring the goal on an excellent oppo
site comer shot. Rick Samuelson scored the 
final goal the first period on a pass from 
f Craig Janik.
The second period started with CMU 
scoring yet again. This time Rob Katz lifted 
into the top of the net over the Pitt netminder, he was assisted by Mike Panno and 
Chris Byrne. Shortly afterwords Pitt put 
their first tally on the board making the 
score 5-1 CMU. The Tartans Rob Katz 
returned the favor when he tickled the twine 
a second time, with help from Bill Heyse 
and linemate, Mike Panno. Pitt, while on a 
powerplay, added their second, though 
shortly afterwords the Tartans Rick Samuel
son put his second tally on the board, this 
time unassisted. Pitt then scored their 3rd
Regionals find runners 2nd
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
Lately, students have been complaining 
about everything from a high tuition to 
Andy Stahl. However, what we residents a 
CMU should be bitching about are the 
. awful athletic facilities that the 
r adminsitration has provided us.
Jjjp Besides the newly paved tennis courts, the administration 
has let the rest of CMUs athletic department 
dilapidate to such a backward state that 
other schools in the PAC put us away easily. 
I mean for $10,000 a year we should get 
better.
Lets start with the gym. As you approach 
the building located on Tech St., we see 
something that looks far from an athletic 
complex. As a matter-of-fact, it resembles 
more of a cross between a burned down 
f apartment complex and Baker Hall, than a
gymnasium. When one thinks of a colle
giate sports complex, one sees a valley with 
two giant inflatable domes containing areas 
for gymnastics, fencing, five or six full-sized 
basketball courts, wresding, volleyball, racquetball, and an indoor artificial field con
vertible to baseball or football just in case it 
rains, and a hockey rink. Also in the valley is 
a football stadium, basketball arena, swim
ming complex, field hockey field, and a ser
ies of baseball diamonds. Sort of a 
combination of Lehigh, North Carolina, 
and Florida Universities, none of which 
have a higher tuition than does CMU.
Anyway, as I walk into our gym, the first 
interesting site that usually comes to mind is 
the basketball court. Where are the escala
tors to take me to an upper deck seat? Where 
are the concession stands where I could by 
CMU paraphrenalia? What we get is 
ancient piece of junk that looks more like a
Hockey dub wins a pair
high school gym than a college arena. 
Duquesne University plays in the Civic 
Arena and their tuition is less than ours so 
why dont we. The floor is falling apart and 
I hope than no one breaks an ankle on it 
someday. Where are the individual box seats 
and luxury boxes for the wealthy business
men? Instead, President Cyert and friends 
give us movable stands that give your 
behind splinters. At the basketball games 
instead of a Tartan mascot like Tiger Paul, 
CMU fans have to settle with PIKA Pete. For 
$10,000 a year we should get better.
If maybe someone doesnt want to play 
hoops, another activity one could take part
in is lifting weights. So I trudge down 
flights of steps, through a dingy hallway 
with tiny offices for the coaches and admin
istrators and end up at the weight room. 
The first thing that creeps out of that place. 
Wheres the ventilation? It smells like the
goal to close out the second period.
The Tartans then put the clamp on 
allowing only 1 shot the remaining 15 min
utes of play and taking 19 themselves mak
ing the Pitt goal tender wish he went to 
CMU. Mike Panno got the lone Tartan goal 
on a feed from Rob Katz.
This week the Tartans visit Penn State 
McKeesport on Saturday and host Gannon 
at the Civic Arena 1:00 p.m., Sunday.
Last week in a hard hitting game at the 
Lakevue Ice Palace, CMU defeated Slippery 
Rock College, 4-2.
The Tartans Don Heyse started the 
ing with a powerplay goal midway through 
the first period. He was assisted by Rick 
Samuelson. Rob Katz then expanded the 
Tartan lead, when he drove homw a Tim 
Carlin slapshot tipped by Mike Panno.
Early in the second period the Rock 
closed the gap with a pawerplay goal of 
their own. Then late in the period Eric 
Spray scored a shorthanded breakaway goal 
on a pass from Craig Janik to leave CMU up 
3-1 at the end of two periods.
Slippery Rock scored their second goal of 
the game five minutes into the third period 
to bring them within one goal. With a little 
over two minutes left CMUs Rick Samuel
son scored an insurance goal, with assits 
from Don Heyse and Eric Spray.
The Tartan goalkeeper Bob Kosakowski 
stopped 18 shots while the Rocks netminder stopped 21, with CMU on top, 4-2.
By Steve Winawer
CMU won the majority of faceoffs against Pitt which contributed to their win.
Lee, and Mark Merlie (all finishing in the 
top 20). As usual, CMUs All-American duo 
of John Wessels and Mike Short finished in 
the top ten. Kevin Brewer and John McGo
wan, who both finished in the top five (on 
the team) at last weeks conference meet, had 
trouble with the cold this week, and so fin
ished sixth and seventh on the team this 
week.
Finishing places and times were as fol
lows: John Wessels--4th place in 25:44, Mike 
Short--7th place in 25:50, Chris Shafer--11th 
place in 26:01, Eric Lee18th place in 26:15, 
Mark Merlie--19th place in 26:16, Kevin 
Brewer-27th place in 26:31, and John 
McGowan-33rd place in 26:37. Once again, 
the Tartans had the best splits of the year, 
placing the first five runners within 32 
seconds of each other, and with the entire 
team finishing within 53 seconds of each 
other.
According to Coach Gary Meckley, the 
race between CMU and Glassboro was a lot 
closer than it looked, with each Glassboro 
runner just a few seconds ahead of a CMU 
continued on page 21
Bv Slew* Winawer
At the Civic Arena Saturday, CMU barraged Pitt with 47 shots. This weeks foes include 
Penn StateMcKeesport and Gannon on Saturday at the Igloo.
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffivriter
With less than a week left in the season, 
the Camegie-Mellon cross country team is 
looking good in its preparations for the 
national meet. The regional meet on Satur
day, November 13 was no exception. The 
Tartans finished second in their regional at 
Memorial Lake State Park in Indian Town 
Gap. Out of the 28 teams representing the 
NCAA Division III Mideast Region (which 
actually includes 40 schools), the CMU cross 
country team finished behind second place 
to cross country power Glassboro State 
College.
Most of the CMU runners ran good races 
considering the adverse weather conditions. 
It was very cold at the meet, with occasional 
rain and snow. The wind, which is always 
an important factor in cross country races, 
was gusting up to 35 and 40 miles per hour. 
Because of the conditions, times were very 
slow, and some of the runners had trouble 
staying loose. However, in spite erf the 
weather, some of CMUs runners had very 
good rates, including Chris Shafer, Eric

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 16, 1982
A dministration at fault for poor ath. dept.
continued from page 19
sible. Once there, one is very disappointed. 
First, there are only two. Why not 8 or 10 like 
Racquetball One has? Their yearly member
ship is only .5% of our tuition. Well, the 
most astonishing part of the courts is the 
insides. Theyre about the size of a shoebox 
and about 80 years old. They were made for 
squash and the Administration is trying to 
make us believe these courts could actually 
be used for a regulation match. Anyone who 
has played on regulation size courts knows 
how subpar these are. They are also danger
ous because the size of them constrict the 
area where players can run to and thus a 
broken nose or tooth is a high possibility. 
For $10,000 a year, we should definitely get 
better.
Outside of the gym, things arent as bad. 
Tech Field is a nice idea. A little stadium 
nestled in a valley area. Mistake #1: I dont 
know about A.D. James Banner but when I 
sit on stands make of concrete in the middle 
of November, my butt becomes slightly 
numb. Individual cushioned seats would
attract more fans. What the real problem is 
between field hockey, football, and soccer, 
the turf at the end of the season looks as if a 
motorcross was run on it. Solution, artifical 
turf. South High has it, why cant we. Also 
where are the vendors in the stands selling 
nachos so I dont have to leave my seat in the 
middle of the game to get refreshments? 
Hey, for ten grand a year, you know.
On the serious side, the thing that gets me 
the most upset is how CMU wont dish out 
enough money to turn the Hockey and Base
ball clubs into teams. Instead, players on 
both squads are forced to pay a substantial 
amount of dollars in order to help pay for 
their uniforms, equipment, and travelling 
expenses. The shame about it is that even 
without the school paying the full bill, the 
Hockey Club plays in a conference with Pitt 
and Duquesne and skates againsts those 
teams on the ice of the Civic Arena. Imagine 
if the school took up the expenses. By the 
way, going down to the Arena, paying a 
dollar to get in, sitting in seats right on the 
ice, and watching CMU hockey is probably
the best bargain of all Tartan sports.
What Im trying to say in this commen
tary is that Warner Hall has a long way to go 
to upgrade the sports facilities here at CMU. 
Though some of my suggestions were a little far-fetched, they dealt with the things that 
needed improvement. Hopefully, some 
prosperous alumni will donate a large sum 
to put this school on the right track towards 
athletic achievement. Right, Dick?First for CMU money club
continued from page 11
forward data in the report and concentrated 
on the information that many analysts 
spend hours investigating. This informa
tion leads an investor to the decision of 
whether or not to buy a stock.
One of the points Schipper made was to 
be wary of the Accountants report. Each 
annual report is accompanied by a state
ment from a certified public accountant stat
ing that the company is in good standings. 
Some, however, will start off by saying, In 
our opinion the company is in good stand
ings but. . .. The but is what is of concern.
Schipper also stressed looking into the 
Statement of Changes in Financial Posi
tion. This section reports the sources andNukes and the federal government
continued from page 9
Everyone is very powerful, but most citi
zens just dont realize the extent of their 
power. We could change things immensely 
by a cooperative non-violent resistance to 
our existing government. Ms. Norman 
gave an example of the type of power-abuse 
by elected officials that should be prevented
 as soon as the November election results 
demonstrated that fifty percent of the voters 
wanted a nuclear freeze, President Reagan 
publicly announced that it was all a Soviet 
plot executed by Russian infiltrators.
Passive resistance might be the answer to 
this kind of government exploitation of the
people. Ms. Norman pointed out that
700,000 young men eligible for the draft 
have not registered, and theres no way the 
government can prosetute that many peo
ple. She reflected, There was a popular 
bumper sticker in the sixties that says it all: 
What if they gave a war and nobody 
came?
The answer? The world would be a lot 
better off. And nuclear disaster would be 
averted for that much longer.
Getting Involved
Part of the "Solutions to the Nuclear 
Arms Race Convocation on Friday,
November 11 included a lecture on Getting 
Involved. Ruth Rylander from the Presby
terian Church and Beth Kinney from the 
Thomas Merton Center informed the twelve 
member audience about places to go and 
phone numbers to call to become better 
acquainted with nuclear freeze issues.
The 10-year-old Merton Center grew out 
of involvement with Vietnam. Kinney says 
that the Center also deals with global and 
local hunger issues as well as social issues. 
The Center is the basic information gath
erer for Pittsburgh; we make people aware 
of upcoming legislation and funding for 
continued on page 22
uses of funds (defined as working capital = 
current assets - current liabilities) and leads 
an investor with valuable information, such 
as whether the firm is earning more money 
or just taking on more debt.
Schipper concluded the lecture by stress
ing the importance of taking a finance and 
accounting course at one time in your life,
JFK deceit
David Lifton, author of Best Evidence, 
will speak on The Disguise and Deception 1 
of the Assassination of JFK next Monday 
night in the Skibo Ballroom at 7:30 p.m. Mr. 
Liftons lecture is sponsored by AB Lectures.
Lifton, a graduate of Cornell University, 
became intrigued with the Kennedy assassi
nation and the subsequent Warren Report. 
His initial reaction to the report was that of 
astonishment after seeing the Zapruder film. 
He could not understand how such clear 
evidence, which flew in the face of phys
ics, could have been ignored by the 
commission.
Mr. Lifton spent most of his time from 
late 1967 to December 1978 researching the 
assassination. He is qualified to be 
acclaimed as the individual who has investi
gated the JFK assassination to its fullest
Mr. Lifton will speak on his work, as well 
as show the mysterious Zapruder film at the 
lecture. The campus community is 
welcome.
ALCOHOL 
BARENESS 
PROGRAM
Tues. Nov. 16 
Highlander Room
7 pm
Final Program
Alcohol: Special Issues
(Women and drinking, alcoholism & the family, 
dealing with alcoholic friends, alcoholism; gay community.) 
Janet Sheline, Prevention Services Coordinator 
St. Francis Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA.
Sponsored by Dept, of Student Activities 
Division of Student Affairs and Housing Office

---------------------------------------------------

?November 16 1982The TartanPage 21
S AE beats Comp. Science for the water poio title
The 1982 Water Polo went to the brothers 
of SAE as they defeated the hackers from 
Computer Science 12-7 in a rough match at 
the CMU indoor pool. SAEs scoring attack 
was led by attackers Santiago Pujadas and 
Joe Honomichl while goalie Warren Brown 
held up the defensive side.
Elsewhere, its playoff time for most IM 
sports this week. Playoff schedules are up for 
Chess, Team Volleyball, and Soccer. Check 
the bulletin board for time and place.
Schedules are out for Darts, Comm.
S occer________
Sheila Dunham x4724, 3 Person Volleyball, 
Comm. Rob Schnarr 682-5397, and Back
gammon, Comm. Art Benjamin 583-5945. 
All Darts matches should be played as sche
duled and the results should then be turned 
into Sheila. Same goes for Backgammon.
The next Board Meeting will be Thurs
day Nov. 18. Same Bat time, same Bat 
channel.
Entries for Bridge, Handball, and Basket
ball on Jan. 13th so think about forming 
your teams now.
MAJOR LEAGUES
GERMANY (G)
EAE A
EPP
Phi Kap A
GWANGI
Bayem-Mellon
Gorgoiles
I.C.U.
ITALY (I)
The First Natl Bank
KE A
C.M. Stars
WIN2
3 
0 
1
4
5 
5
WIN2
1
3
LOSS
3 2 
6
4 
1 
1 
1
LOSS
3
3
1
TIE
0
0
0
0
0
0
TIE
0
0
0
I Coaches All Stars110
1 Pika A311
1 GSIA Kickbacks311
1 MINOR LEAGUES
| ENGLAND (E)WINLOSSTIE
I ATO410
I The Strikers320
KEB03vo
Little Rascals ->400
I The Booters040
B Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
1
23
_________
0
How Do You Feel 
About Computing?
The Joint Student Senate/SDC Committee on computing is conducting a survey and needs your input.
Surveys are available at the Skibo Information Desk. Please pick one up and return it by November 23. Thank you.
Htnded In vc111 Activities fee anil die Student Donniwrx CiouiK'il.
FRANCE (F)
KOZO
3rd Floor Hamerschlag 
No Names 
T 8c A 
GWANGI 
EAE B
POLAND (P)
Gyrosquabs 
PLP 
ZBT 
Pika C 
ZOO
BRAZIL (B)
DU
Schlag 69ers 
Mol son Men 
TX B
TX A
Doherty Deadheads 
WOMENS
3CD Morewood Gardens 
Senior Plus 
The Fifth Floor A 
The Fifth Floor B 
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Racquetball
WIN
22
1
3
1
3
WIN
2
0
1
1
4
WIN
1
4 2 
1
5 
1
WIN
2
2
4
0
1
LOSS
3 
2 
2 
0
4 
1
LOSS
3
3
2
3
0
LOSS
3
1
3
3 
0
4
LOSS
12
0
4
2
TIE
0
1
1
1
0
1
TIE
0
0
0
0
0
TIE
1
0
0
1
0
0
TIE
0
0
0
0
0
MINORS B
Slump B 
DTD B 
KS B 
Killers 
Squat Shots 
Pi Lam B 
Excitable Boys
WIN
02
02
122
LOSS
3
1
3
02
0
0
photo bv John Stihvell
IM Soccer Playoffs begin this week. Hot and heavy action like above should be expected.
Nationals 
Next week
continued from page 19
runner, which gives a good outiook for the 
nationals.
At the nationals this Saturday in Fredonia, New York, it can be anyones race 
because there are a lot of teams that are very 
close right now. The wreather and the start 
will be very important factors in the upcom
ing race. About the nationals, Coach Meckley stated, There are an awful lot of teams 
that look real good, so its really hard to say.
CMUs cross country team has been pre
paring for this meet all year, and at this 
point, the runners are peaked and ready for 
their best performances of the year.
WINLOSS
DU02
Theta Xi11
Harrys Tavern10
Swatters01
Pika00
Pi Lam A20
MINORS A
WINLOSS
Slump A10
DTD A11
KS A20
ATO03
Phi Kap A02
Math20
Doherty Deadheads00
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanNovember 16, 1982
Incident telatesi
Fraternity characteristics seem lacking in action
Editor
Okay, this is it. Ive had enough. 
Throughout the year(s), incidents with fra
ternities have been major topics on campus 
 obviously. Although it must be admitted 
that most erf these incidents involve 
members of a fraternity, and not necessarily 
the fraternity as a whole, the reflection is cast 
on the whole organization. Attempting to 
be fair, I gave certain organizations two 
years to shape up before actively getting 
upset. Well, Im actively upset.
Still attempting to be fair, though, I have
Fantasy film
continued from page 18
Without question, the animation was 
enhanced by the careful selection of musicworks from the classics. Beethovens sym
phonies best correlated with what was 
happening on screen, and The Nut
cracker and Bachs fugues were also wellsuited to the animation. In fact, the 
underlying theme is to show how music has 
a variety of purposes, having need for music 
to communicate, a fundamental necessity 
for all things. Indeed, it is a fantasia in this 
respect, at least in the unrestrained, freefrom-materialism, non-complex ideology of 
the world.
But you dont have to go that far to enjoy 
it. Well, you all know about Disney anima
tion: Its a real treat to sit back, relax, and be 
presented with the magic that makes Disney 
Disney. "Fantasia is one of the true splend
ors in the history erf motion pictures. Defi
nitely, go and see it! Its playing at Kings 
Court, but it ends Thursday night, so hurry.
MSonata" good 
but too old
continued from page 18
played with exceptional dead-pan humor 
by John Rusk and Philip Baker. Rusk has 
the perfect serene quality as the straightman 
but it is Baker who steals the show. As 
Johansson, he curiously but hesitantly 
walks around the house exhibiting, with his 
dopey, open face, extraordinary comic relief.
When producer David Merrick came to 
see the original Merton erf the Movies at 
the Kresge it was a chance for the dramats to 
be seen by someone they would hope to be a 
future employer. One wonders if they will 
be afforded that same break this year. Would 
David Merrick make that trip to Pittsburgh 
to see yet another version of "The Ghost 
Sonata? I doubt it
to say that all fraternity males are not the 
inconsiderate, uncaring, idiotic assholes 
that the "frat boys are. Frat boys dont 
deserve the term fraternity brother, which 
implies maturity and brotherliness, which 
in turn implies consideration, caring and  
should I go as far as to say love?
But, of course, the frat boys are consider
ate and caring. The ones at PiKA, and some 
other frats, care enough to broaden my mus
ical knowledge, an exemplary goal. And, of 
course, they are so considerate as to do it 
when I have nothing else to do, anytime 
between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. When I am 
ungrateful enough not to appreciate these 
lessons at 2:30 a.m.^ six hours before the 
inconsequential GMATs, and call PiKA, I 
get, The stereos staying on, honey. You 
know, I didnt even ask them to turn it off, 
just down; they must not have heard cor
rectly. I wonder why.
This was only one of many such inci
dents, as Im sure many of the musical educatees on the fratemity-side of Morewood
Peace info.
continued from page 20
different weapon systems, says Kinney.
Other arms race study groups include 
World Federalists, which Eric Burquist 
runs and is responsible for publicity. Kinney 
says that the World Federalists believe in 
world peace through world order and world 
law.
The Pittsburgh Peace Network provides a 
listing of most peace groups in Pittsburgh 
and you can get brochures and pamphlets 
upon request The Peace Network was 
started at the beginning of last year to pro
mote the U. N. Special Session Peace Rally 
in New York last June. The Network sent 
busloads erf people to the rally.
Rylander says that the Merton Center is 
the best source of information and a nuclear 
freeze calendar. You can call the Center at 
381-1400 and the World Federalist and 
Nuclear Freeze Campaign at 471-7852.
awake is awake
continued from page 8
shut. We finally gave up and went down
stairs to eat without him.
I dont know why it's so easy for me to 
wake up; I guess I just dont like to feel that 
Im missing out on anything. Dont get me 
wrong; I like sleeping. I just like being 
awake better!
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts) 
STROHS
LOWCNMAU lt.. Ok., - bottles
MICHEL08
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PASST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texos)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHEL0B LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSSteok  Corned Beet  Tuno  Turkey
SANDWICHESHaddock  Cod * Ground Steak  Sausage Veal  Chock  Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMSSteak Sub  Fresh Cut French Fries Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments Pizzo served till 3 om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES 
Serving beer Sunday I pm-2 am 
Imports, Cans, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALTOne different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week.
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
ImportsBECKSLt 0k Germany ASS AllEngland HARP LAGER-Irelond MOtSON GOLDEN -Conodo HEINEREN It , Dk - Hollond LOWNBRAU Germony 0 fff AliConodo PILSNER URQUELLCzech KIRIN-JaponMACKES50N STOUT -b tend OLD VIENNA lAGER - Conodo SS LAGERCaado
ST. PAULI GIRL-Germany DOS EQUIS XXMexico JOHN COURAGE-England WATNETSEnglond CARLS8ERG ELEPHANT-Den CARLS8ERG ROYALE-Denmarl CARIS8ERG DARK -Denmark TSINGT AOChino HACKER PSCH0RR-Germany LABATT S -Conodo MURPHY-Ireland COOPER t SON -Australia fOSTER 5 LAGERAustralia
DOG SHOPS, INC
Open
9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9om-4:45om Fri-Sat 
Call 621-7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
Pgh., PA 15213
are well aware.
This kind of inconsideration is merely 
immature. Hopefully the little children who 
indulge will grow out of it in eighty or 
ninety years. Immaturity is semi-acceptable 
as an excuse (if you dont care to sleep). 
Mental derangement in supposedly normal 
people is not.
Friday night fun: an innocent enough 
expression undl given to five mentally 
deranged ATO frat boys  Brian Dooley, 
James Hooper, Howard Hyer, Vince McElhinny, John Taormina  and their friend, 
Vincent Duleno.
At 1:00 a.m., Saturday morning, October 
30, I received a phone call. Rhonda, I just 
wanted to tell you Im with youur room
mate at the hospital. We were walking back 
from Oakland, and some guy yelled from a 
truck. She turned around, and he threw an 
apple, hitting her in the face.
A few hours later, my roommate walked 
in with a badly swollen nose and upper lip, 
a horribly mangled pair of glasses, a bloody 
muffler, and a set of badly bruised feelings. 
She couldnt figure out why anyone would 
do such a thing to her; neither could anyone 
else.
The public, criminal trial was Monday, 
November 8. They were fined $86 apiece and 
charged $55 for the glasses and muffler  
and thats it.
You know the worst part, though? They 
never apologized. They didnt care about 
how she felt. They werent sorry theyd done
it, just that they had been caught. Their 
main concerns were: are you going to press 
charges; do we have a record; and can we get 
it erased? You bastards should have thought 
of that before you threw the apple.
You should be glad my roommate is such 
a nice person. I would have sued you royally 
 charged you with everything possible  
and all because youre not considerate and 
caring enough to live up to the tide you have 
as a fraternity brother. Youre six s.o.b.sand 
would deserve anything you get.
Rhonda Mapstone 
Junior AMS/European Studies
Billy Joelstays sincere
continued from page 17
performance; he seemed genuinely sorry ^ 
about having to end the show, and seemed 
to have had a genuinely good time singing, 
playing the piano, and modesdy showing 
off.
It was refreshing to see a performer so 
involved with his fans and so unhesitant 
about interacting with them as they fur
iously tried to shake his hand and scramble 
on the stage. Billy Joel, after approximately 
six years of superstardom, has never lost his 
working-man perspective. His down-ta: 
earth, street-punk appeal is exemplified by 
his standard concert-ending appeal, Dont 
take any shit from anybody.
More readings scheduled
continued from page 18
Father, On Having to Fail 15 out of 16 
Students, and An Elephant Musing 
About his Origins in Massachusetts. 
Scheduled for tonight at Gustines is 
Lynn Barrett, associate professor erf English
at CMU, who will be reading ficdon. And 
for anyone out there who would have liked 
to catch CMUs talented poets at Gustines 
last week, Schwartz, Harris, and Roffman 
will be reading on campus at an undeter
mined time soon. i
COST 
OFKSfttkft
GIVE TO THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY.
CORRECTION
In the 11/2/82 edition of the Tartan, there was an error in the ad for Garbage Records.The line read, Well pay higher prices for records (no more than $1 flat fee).The line should have read, Well pay higher prices for records (no more $1 flat fee.)

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedsclubs
Have to get somewhere fast? Buy or lease your 
very own vintage red fire truck. Call Pi Kappa 
.Alpha. 682-1474.
Dear Mark, Happy 21st Birthday 2 days early. I 
miss you. Always, Your loving Co-Chair.
Bike for sale. One red 25 inch Puch bicycle in 
perfect condition for immediate sale. Negotiate 
price. If interested call 682-2850. Ask for Marco.
Retail sales clerk. Part-time daylight; flexible 
hours. Starting pay $3.50/hr. Apply in person. 
1711 Penn Ave, strip district. Ask for Paul.
Hi, Im an Avon representative and if you want to 
buy or sell Avon give me a call at 361-8929.
Women  join the Academic Bag Ladies over a 
meal on Thursdays 12-1 or 4-6. Lutheran Univer
sity Center, 4515 Forbes Ave, Oakland. Over 25 
and back in school? Need a network and support 
group? Lonely? Hungry? Call 682-6886 for info.
Adoption  not abortion. If you know erf somel one who can help us find a baby that needs a 
/ family, call 443-5451.
^ Free mailed Bible correspondence course, home 
I Bible study, or counseling from the Word of God,
I write: Church of Christ, P. O. Box 10542, Pgh,
I PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560
I Will type term papers, dissertations, letters,
I resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
I rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
f Professional typing and word processing. Fast, 
I efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
1 research papers, term papers. 24 hr. service. Satis| faction guarenteed. For best results call Ms. West,
I 371-3657.
I Guitar lessons  Classical, Jazz, Pop. 3rd year I CMU music student. 1/2 hr. - $6; 1 hr. - $10. Call 
I Jozsef Toth, 683-7331.
| Improve your grades! Research catalog  306 
I pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097c, 
| Los Angeles, CA 90025, (213) 477-8226.
I Professional typing/word processing: thesis, 
I manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters 
I etc. (MLA  APA 8c Turabian strongly 
 observed.) Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour 
I serv ice available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. SatisI facuon guaranteed.
1 Loving professional couple seeks adoption of 
I infant. Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Bill and 
I Gloria, 856-5827.
I Available immediately. Furnished efficiencies, 
I share/bath, 5 min. from CMU campus. ReferenI ces required. $150 8c $175, utilities included. Call
I 621-0815 between 9 & 4.
II CMU skiers! Winterbreak ski trip to Killington 
I or Smugglers Notch ski resorts in Vermont! 5 
I days skiing, 5 nights lodging in slopeside condos
 with kitchens, and nighdy parties from $156. 
I Call (800) 368-2006 Toll Free ask for Nancy. Go
 with friends or organize a small group and ski for 
I free.
I Audio Recording Hempfield Recording LexI icon, Delta Lab, Sennheiser and Neumann. 
Small 8-track studio including State of the arts 
outboard equipment. Create excellent recording 
opportunity at reasonable sees. 864-0787.
Oaklnad Review, CMUs literary magazine, is 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
drama, and artwork. Submissions should be 
placed at Skibo Info Desk, c/o Editor, Oaklnad 
Review. Deadline is February 25,1983. Questions 
and special arrangememtn: call Kristin Kovacic 
x4242.
Talented programmer student wanted to go into 
business partnership or P/T work. 367-0586,
p.m.
| I am cheap, fast and neat  Boy, do you have a 
dirty mind! Call Catherine at x4225 for typing.
For Sale-Engineering and drafting tools and 
I (tlulPment, drafting table complete, scales, temI P*ales> triangles, electric eraser, dividers, compiiss, lead holders, rapidograph pens, many other 
I rns artists sable and red sable brushes and
I s et( h pads-reasonable. Settling estate-call 486- 
I 0475 before 2 p.m. daily.
Asian Students, There will be another meeting 
on Nov. 19, 4 p.m. in front of Gregg Hall (PH 
100). Anyone who is still interested, please come. 
If there are any questions, plese contact Herman 
x8913 or Andrew x8914.
AIESEC  Students from all majors are wel
come to come to AIESECs weekly meetings. Be 
part erf this student-run international business. 
Meetings are held at 4:30 every Wednesday, or 
stop by the office, Skibo, Room 57, anytime to 
learn more about the organization.
The Association of Student Chapters of the 
American Institute of Architects, the ASC/AIA of 
Camegie-Mellon University has begun this year 
with strong commitment from students inter
ested in enriching their architectural education. 
Some of the activities planned by the ASC/AIA 
are showings of AIA films on architecturally 
related subjects, sale of tracing paper and sale erf 
architecture T-shirts designed by students. Events 
that have taken place include a tour of Williams/Trebilcock/Whitehead, a prominent Pitts
burgh architectural firm. Meetings are held 
Thursday nights, in room 206 in CFA, starting at 
7 p.m. All architecture students are invited to 
attend.
CMU Lacrosse Club meeting Tuesday, Nov. 16 
at 9:30 in Skibo room 13. All are welcome. Bring 
dues. Questions call 687-6893.
Pre-Law Club. Organizational meeting for all 
interested in a Pre-Law Club, Room 225, GSIA, 
7:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 23.
general
PREGNANT? can ThT
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue. Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
 non-profit organization
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation
Student Senate is sponsoring a forum to meet the 
candidates in the coming elections. It will be held 
in the Skibo Ballroom on Nov. 16,1982 at 6 p.m. 
Everyone is invited to attend the regular senate 
meeting which follows the forum at 7 p.m. Elec
tions will be held Nov. 17 8c 18 in Skibo Grey 
Matter from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Vote!
official
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of Humanties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30  3:30, BH 
260.
A nondenominational Bible discussion group
meets every Monday evening at 9, in Room 39, 
Skibo. This discussion group is open to all CMU 
students. Feel free to bring a friend. For more 
information, call 441-0819, and ask for John.
Bnai Brith Hillel Activities
Wednesday, November 17  8:00 study break at 
CMU Hillel House. 133 Margaret Morrison 
Apts.
Friday, November 19  8:30 TGIS (Thank God 
Its Shabbat) party at CMU Hillel House. 133 
Margaret Morrison Apts. ..
Saturday, November 20  Pre-finals bash with 
D. J. Oakland Jewish Community Center. 315 S. 
Bellefield WN Call Hillel office for Time 621-8875 
Sunday, November 21  6:00 deli dinner and 
movie at CMU Hillel House. 133 Margaret Mor
rison Apts. RSVP Hillel office 621-8875.
The Mortar Board Word of the Week: VIRIDLSCENT  green or slighdy green. Usaga exam
ple: The CMU cut loses is viridescence during the 
cold weather.
What sits on Forbes Avenue, houses the dino
saurs, exhibits great art and needs you as a volun
teer? Carnegie Institute does! The Museum of 
Natural History and the Museum of Art provide 
opportunities for volunteers to assist curators, to 
train as interns, to serve in the gift shops, or in 
any of a large number of areas in the Museum 
world. Call Alisa Thompson in Volunteers at
622-3318
events
SDC presents a winter semi-formal Dinner 
Dance, Saturday Dec. 4th. Music by Kaos 
(formerly Tyme). Reservations can be made for 
tables of eight. A catered dinner will be served at 
7:00 p.m. Open to all. Tickets go on sales today, 
Tuesday, Nov. 10th at Skibo Information desk. 
$12.00 per couple.
Forbes Gallery show of sculpture, painting, 
drawing, and metalwork by Chris Shellhammer, 
Darien DAlfonso, Pam Henry, and Staros 
Garger. November 17-20. Open WednesdaySaturday,ll a.m.-6 p.m.
The Pittsburgh String Consort will be giving a 
subscription series of four performances at the 
Church of the Redeemer in Squirrel Hill. The 
series opens Sunday, November 21 at 4:30 p.m. 
with Fall from the Four Seasons by Vivaldi, Ada
gio for Strings by Barber and St. Pauls Suite by 
Holst. The PSC is conducted by Joseph Pollard 
White. Tickets are $5.00, $4.00, for students, and 
will be available at the door. Reservations may be 
made by calling 422-7193. The Church of the 
Redeemer is located at 5700 Forbes Ave.
The Thomas Merton Center will present its 1982 
Thomas Merton Center Award to Archbishop 
Raymond G. Hunthausen on Thursday, 
November 18, 1982, 8:30 p.m. at Antonian Hall, 
Carlow College in Oakland. The presentation 
will follow a meager meal which will begin at 
7:30 in the dining hall of Tieman Hall, Carlow 
College. Admission to meal: Adults $5.00; Child
ren $2.00; Students and Senior Citizens $3.00. 
Call 381-1400 for reservations.
WRCT (88.3 FM) features
... Mon. (9 p.m.) Nov. 15 and Fri. (mid.) Nov 19: 
B SHARP CONCERT SERIES  Philip Glass 
... Wed. (9 p.m.) Nov 17 and Sat (mid.) Nov. 20: 
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR  XTC 
recorded live in concert
... every Thursday (6 p.m.): WEEKLY READER
 news and views others ignore 
. .. Fri. 3 p.m.  Mon 3 a.m.: mosdy new wave 
and new music on WRCT
A.S.M.E., S.A.E., Pi Tau Sigma would like to 
invite the campus community to see a quarter 
scale model of the Pratt 8c Whitney JT8D jet 
engine. The model will be on display in HH 12 
until the end erf November.
Nationally-acclaimed tenor Paul Sperry and 
soprano Lynne Webber will be the featured solo
ists on the next concert of The Pittsburgh New 
Music Ensemble, David Stock, conductor, on 
Sunday, November 21, 1982, at 8 p.m. in the 
Chatham College Chapel. For more information 
about the Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, call 
(412) 261-2028.
The Pittsburgh Black Theatre Dance Ensemble
will present its fall performance series, "A 
CHANGE OF SEASONS , Friday and Satur
day, November 26 and 27 at the Eddy Theatre, 
Chatham College. The performances, scheduled 
for 8:00 p.m. both nights and 2:30 p.m. Saturday, 
will feature a unique blend of ballet, jazz, modem 
and ethnic dance forms.
Tickets for PBTDEs fall concert are $6 for adults, 
$4 for students and $3 for children under 14. For 
reservations, contact PBTDE at 681-1997 
between noon and 9 p.m. or the Pittsburgh 
Dance Council at 355-0330 between 9 a.m. and 5 
p.m.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers ctogging a 
dram on a routine aqueduct re 
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy, counters Blech "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with' No 
appointments required For gals 
and guys
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
.-gfilTCXPCCTBTItftS.
Mon., lues., W'ed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PRECSON HAWXfTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

Tn oom UP fot bow \ce creaw.
vNHV hary
foo HAVJE A 
LIVI# Ci c Ram
Page 24The TartanNovember 16, 1982
more events
Music Department Events:
November 16, 8:00 p.m. Junior Recital, Amy 
Hartle, Voice and John Falcone, Bassoon. 
Alumni Concert Hall
November 23,8:00 p.m. Renaissance City Wood
wind Quintet Music of Women Composers 
Alumni Concert Hall
November 30, 8:00 p.m. Percussion Ensemble. 
Concert Alumni Concert Hall 
The Alumni Concert Hall is in the College of 
Fine Arts Building. All events are open to the 
public without charge.
Opening the third season of McKee Place Pro
ductions will be An Evening of Cabaret Thea
tre, conceived and directed by Mr. Thomas P. 
McLaughlin.
Running November 18-20 at 8:00 p.m., An 
Evening of Cabaret Theatre will be presented at 
362 McKee Place, Oakland. For ticket informa
tion call 681-9372.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project will 
present the second in its series of eight free con
certs on Tuesday, November 23 at 8 p.m. at Cal
vary United Methodist Church, Beech and 
Allegheny Avenues, Northside. The program 
will include Beethovens Sonata No. 8 for Violin 
and Piano, Schumanns song cycle Dichterliebe, 
Loefflers Two Rhapsodies for Oboe, Viola and 
Piano, and Dohnanyis Serenade for String Trio. 
The next concert will be Tuesday, December 14 
in Shadyside at 726 St. James St.
For further information, please call 241-4243 or 
682-1746.
The Camegie-Mellon Philharmonic and Chorus
will give a performance of its concert at Carnegie 
Hall, New York, on November 21.
Also, in the music department, CMU will present 
the Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet in a
program of music by women composers at 8 
p.m., Tuesday, November 23 in Alumni Concert 
Hall, College of Fine Arts.
The program will open with two works for flute, 
the Concertino by Gecile Chaminade and Noc
turne by Lili Boulanger, performed by Natalie 
Rothermel, a Camegie-Mellon alumna and Carlow College faculty member. Two woodwind 
trios by Mabel Daniels and Blythe Owen will 
follow as well as Three Pieces for Woodwind 
Quartet by Mildred Gardner, a Greensburg 
composer.
Marilyn Thomas, CMU assistant professor, will 
provide commentary on the history of women 
composers. Thomas composition, Five Pieces 
for Five Players, will close the program.
The Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet has 
become one of Pennsylvanias foremost profes
sional chamber ensembles since its founding in
1975. Members are Natalie Rothermel, fluteR 
James Whipple, bassoon; Virginia Smolia/l 
oboe; Michael Jacob, clarinet; and Keith Powel] 
horn. The group is in residence at Carlos 
College.
New York photographer Harvey Stein will 0pen 
an exhibit of his Portraits of Artists from 6 30 
to 8:30 p.m., Sunday November 14 in the Hewlett 
Gallery at Camegie-Mellon University.
The 50 black-and-white prints feature prominent 
artists of the second half of the 20th century 
Included are portraits of Mary Beth Edelson, Ken
neth Snelson, James Rosenquist, Philip Pe^.; 
stein and Hannah Wilkie.
Stein, an engineering graduate of CMU, is the 
author of Parallels: A Look at Twins.
The event is open to the public without charge 
Hewlett Gallery hours are 11 a.m. to 4 p.m 
Tuesday through Friday; noon to 4 p.m., Satur
day; and 1 to 4 p.m., Sunday.
JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
x thought 
SONOAYS
IVfOOfWS
<bE.F0RE
THeV H/WF 
iUNO&'fS 
ev/eM
Y'JtONESDAY? 
Edito ra THer 
Oo AFTE.R 
SKToMiAY? j
No] ewULcoL mONE AYS
1^0M0AY5 Ate T\wo AYS NNONES lFeu s
THREE Oftys
Away NortATTiftIf
HOW |t*> /Li
L0K AT ri! J ( .
VNCOMESQAYSJ
WHY OoNT \ 
You C?ET A SONOftE? \ 
THPf HAVf SunOAES 
VFR.Y \fJDNS0AV,N0VU!
We need you to help fill in the gaps.
AaP ARESRN TSRoo vPPST PiPEw b1N2Rw RS : Xb )N c11v rh Wd)f1C
The Tartan doesn't
