Volume 98, Issue 8www.thetartan.org27 October 2003
Phone home
Joe Elliott explains the intricacies of the technolo
gy behind cell phones.
SciTech, A4
Sell me a story
Two vendors convey messages with their merchan
dise.
Pillbox, 8
Life and choice
Swinging from both sides on the recently passed 
partial-birth abortion ban.
Forum, A7
Founded in 1906 
Independent since 2002
THE TARTAN
Senate sets 
up forum for 
diploma issue
Jennifer Anttonen/Photo Staff
Matt Dymerski, a first-year computer science major, swipes his card at one of 
many readers that stand guard at campus building doors. New readers were 
installed at Baker and Porter Halls which will restrict access after 10 pm.
New security card 
readers installed
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff
Putting on the pounds
Construction workers place counterweights on the end of the crane to balance the loads being lifted at the other end. 
The crane is being used to assist in the construction of the Collaborative Innovation Center being constructed in 
Panther Hollow.
Israeli diplomat-in-training visits CMU
Bedouin Arab Ishmael Khaldi relates the plight and condition of his people at lecture event
ZIONIST
Courtesy of the Young Zionists of America
Ishmael Khaldi is a Bedouin Israeli who is being trained to become the Israeli 
governments first Arab diplomat. He is touring the countrys colleges telling his 
life story and informing students of his peoples socioeconomic situation.
by Hannah Yi
Staffwriter
People will no longer be able to 
easily walk into Baker and Porter 
Hall at night. A new card access sys
tem, which was implemented on 
October 17, means they will have to 
have Carnegie Mellon identification 
cards to enter the academic build
ings. The buildings will be on lock 
down from 10 pm to 6 am, Monday 
through Thursday, and from 10 pm 
Friday to 6 am Monday.
Chief Creig Doyle of Campus 
Police said that the main impetus for 
starting the card access system was 
a plethora of security reasons in the 
academic buildings.
In March and April of 2002 we 
were getting killed in Baker and 
Porter Hall with thefts, he said.
That spring, Campus Police 
worked in plainclothes for three 
weeks in Baker and Porter Hall to 
apprehend the perpetrator responsi
ble for stealing several laptops, 
mounted projectors on the ceilings, 
Walkmans, and minor items in 
offices such as coin jars. Campus
by Matt Rado
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University 
President Jared Cohon has declined 
to become a candidate for the posi
tion of president of the University of 
Pennsylvania.
The University of Pennsylvania, 
currently ranked eighth among 
national universities by U.S. News 
and World Report, is searching for a 
president to replace its current pres
ident, Judith Rodin. Rodin 
announced in July that she would 
step down when her current tenyear term ends in June 2004.
The search firm in charge of find
ing the University of Pennsylvanias 
next president approached Cohon, 
who said he was not interested in 
being a candidate, according to 
Teresa Thomas, Carnegie Mellon 
assistant vice president for media 
relations.
Rodins position is the highest 
paying among university leaders, 
according to the Chronicle of 
Philanthropy, with a salary of 
$580,357. That is over $200,000 
more than President Cohons salary, 
according to the most recent data 
available. Rodin also receives addi
tional benefits and an expense 
allowance together totaling over 
$300,000 dollars.
Ron Ozio, media director for the 
University of Pennsylvania, said he 
had nothing to say about the search 
and that it is a private matter.
[Cohons] got a lot he wants to 
accomplish from the
Police arrested and charged a nonCMU person.
He was a drug abuser and some
one off the streets, said Doyle. The 
arrest ended the thefts, but this was 
a major impetus in trying to speed 
up getting Baker and Porter in line.
The University is not only con
cerned with thefts but is also wary 
about the easy accessibility that is 
available to those outside the cam
pus community. During the sum
mer, Schenley Park holds Movies in 
the Park where the Pittsburgh com
munity gathers on Flagstaff Hill. 
Before the installation of the card 
access system, non-CMU members 
were able to enter Baker and Porter 
Hall through one of the twenty 
entry doors and several open win
dows to use the bathrooms. There 
are now six entrances with card 
readers; the other 14 doors will be 
locked throughout the evening.
Theft is a crime of opportunity, 
said Chief Doyle.
As well as maintaining a level of 
security, the implementation of the 
card access system in Baker and
See SECURITY, page A3
Universitys teaching agenda to its 
research agenda. He believes this is 
one of the nations finest universi
ties and says its a great place to 
work, said Thomas.
Cohon was considered the num
ber one candidate among five, 
according to
said one may SciTe h,A,P
be that he is
already president of one of 
Americas greatest universities and 
that he is also a University of 
Pennsylvania graduate.
Teresa Thomas also agreed with 
this.
I would say its because hes a 
Penn graduate and because hes 
doing a great job here, said 
Thomas.
Cohon graduated from the 
University of Pennsylvania in 1969 
with a bachelors degree in civil 
engineering. He became Carnegie 
Mellon President in 1997 and his 
contract was recently renewed 
through 2007. He was previously 
dean of the School of Forestry and 
Environmental Studies at Yale 
University.
See COHON, page A3
by Christina Kung
Junior Staffwriter
On the Sunday before the lecture, 
30 posters advertising Ishmael 
Khaldis lecture were posted on vari
ous bulletin boards in the University 
Center. By the next morning, only 
two or three could be found. Khaldi 
came to Carnegie Mellon to give a 
lecture concerning his perspective as 
a Bedouin, an Arab minority living in 
Israel. When he completes his train
ing, he will be the first Arab diplo
mat in the Israeli government. Many 
students of Israeli and Palestinian 
descent came together in small room 
226 in Porter Hall on October 16 to 
listen to him speak. They came 
despite different backgrounds and 
opposing views to listen to one man 
tell his story.
Khaldi was born the third of 
eleven children in a Bedouin family 
in Khawalid, a village northeast of 
Haifa. He served as a soldier for the 
Israeli Police Force and pursued a 
higher education at Tel Aviv 
University, where he received a mas
ters degree in political science. 
Afterwards, he worked as director of 
the non-profit organization Etgar, 
which promotes higher education 
among Bedouins. Khaldi believes 
that Bedouins may be a misread 
group since many are uneducated 
and unemployed. He said, however, 
that Bedouins are working hard to 
improve their situation and are mak
ing positive contributions to Israel, 
with 75 to 80 percent of Bedouins 
serving in the countrys military.
This event, sponsored in part by 
Young Zionists of America (YZOA), 
Hillel, and Zionists of America, 
focused on Khaldis life experiences 
as a Bedouin fighting for the Israeli 
state, which is uncommon among 
Arabs.
I am not Jewish, but a Muslim, 
which is the same culture as their 
[Israeli] enemies. Israel is not a 
racist* imitate, said Khaldi during his
lecture. Bedouins are committed to 
Israeli society simply because we are 
a part of it.
Throughout the lecture, a deep 
polarization could be seen in the 
crowds reactions to Khaldis com
ments. When a few arguments were 
posed against Khaldi, several audi
ence members quickly responded on 
behalf of the speaker.
Ive heard his story many times; I
always find it very eloquent and 
educational. He has taken polarized 
cultures and brought them together. 
He is a role model for his people; he 
had higher education which was 
very rare at the time.... He went to 
the university, and he went to the 
army. If he could do it, I couldnt see 
why others cant, said Polina
^ See BEDOUIN, page A3
by Andrew Johnson
Editor-in-Chief
Since 2000, Carnegie Mellon has 
aimed to change its diploma format 
for a variety of reasons, from space 
considerations to the elegance of the 
document. Diplomas were slated to 
drop minors for graduation last May, 
but uproar from the student body 
lead the University to reinstate the 
minors for graduating seniors, going 
as far as to send graduates the old 
diploma format after graduation. A 
similar ruckus resulted this semester 
when the University announced that 
diplomas would not include minors 
or colleges for graduating seniors.
Students have presented argu
ments that their minors are impor
tant, that they often identify with 
their particular college, and that stu
dents should dictate what goes on 
their diplomas. Indira Nair, vice 
provost for education, and John 
Papinchak, director of Enrollment 
Services, attended last Thursdays 
Student Senate meeting to discuss 
the Universitys position with stu
dents. At the meeting, Senate passed 
a resolution disapproving of the lack 
of student input involved in the 
process.
Student Senate officially requests 
that August 2003 graduating seniors 
receive diplomas that are identical in 
format to those awarded to seniors 
who graduated in May 2003, states 
the resolution. Student Senate 
requests that the results of [a forum 
held in November] be considered by 
the relevant Carnegie Mellon admin
istrative departments as binding for 
this 2003-2004 academic year.
The resolution also requests that 
diplomas be the same in December.
Papinchak said that the University 
will now continue the dialogue with 
students through the forum in 
November before coming to a deci
sion about diplomas. While he says 
there are good reasons for redesign
ing the diploma, there should be a 
forum for discussion.
Personally, I think its an accredi
tation given by the University, and 
the University should decide, said 
Nair, though she agrees with getting 
student input this semester.
According to Papinchak, the prolif
eration of interdisciplinary majors 
has made it increasingly difficult to 
put all of a students colleges on a 
diploma. Some programs span three, 
colleges, and in some cases, a smaller 
font is required. He also said that the 
deans signatures that accompany the 
colleges, but placed along the bottom 
of the diploma, are also unwieldy in 
their multitude.
He said that the University wanted 
the diploma to stress that the degree 
is from Carnegie Mellon, as opposed 
to a particular college.
Minors were removed, according to 
Papinchak, not out of space consider
ations, but because that is the trend 
of other universities and because 
minors were judged unimportant 
compared to the other information on 
the certificate. He said that a diploma 
is more of an award or recognition for 
finishing a degree as opposed to a 
record, like a transcript. The new%
, See DIPLOMA, j^ige A3
Cohon declines UPenn 
presidential candidacy
Voluml oeml9 o8,elI 9Iswl .mlmtu
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
Last Friday night, balloons lined 
the stairs towards the Rangos 
Ballroom and guests checked their 
coats at the door as they arrived at 
the annual Alumni Awards ceremony. 
This year, 11 people who have distin
guished themselves in fields ranging 
from marine biology to acting were 
recognized for their contributions to 
their chosen fields.
After the bagpipe music settled, 
Jennifer Lewis Neubauer, assistant 
vice president for alumni relations, 
officially began the ceremony by 
thanking the 11 very important peo
ple who were being honored and 
introducing University President 
Jared Cohon.
When we have our alumni back, it 
reminds us of what were doing,
Cohon said. Universities tend to 
measure themselves by their rank
ings ... but in the end, I think every 
professor would agree that what mat
ters most are our alumni.... you 
honor us, you honor our University, 
and you inspire the next generation 
of students who hope to follow in 
your footsteps.
The first three people recognized 
were Jennifer Rebecca Hughes, sen
ior in science and arts; Jennifer Lee, a 
masters ECE student; and Michael 
Olson, a senior in business adminis
tration, who each received a Student 
Service Award for balancing good 
grades and participation in extracur
ricular activities while providing 
exemplary service to the University 
and the community.
Ive borrowed a page from this 
Universitys book of morals, and that 
page is: Thou shalt not rest upon thy 
laurels, said Alex Condron, recipient of the Alumni Service Award, 
which is awarded for active participa
tion in alumni affairs, faithful effort 
in maintaining alumni organizations, 
and assisting in expanding the pres
tige of Carnegie 
Mellon 
University and 
its alumni organi z a t i o n s .
Condron is the 
former president 
of the Andrew 
Carnegie 
Society, and also 
serves as the
Society s repreVolum e98 ,IswI8 
sentative on the 
Alumni Association Executive Board.
The next awards given were the 
Alumni Merit Awards, given for 
exceptional accomplishment in the 
nominees chosen profession, to 
which he or she has brought a degree
of progress or in which he or she has 
become a distinguished leader. The 
first recipient was Ricky Ian Gordon, 
a composer who released his first 
solo CD, Bright Eyed Joy, in 2001, and 
has participated in numerous other 
musical projects. According to 
Gordon, when he arrived at CMU he 
did not know what he wanted to do.
I arrived not knowing who I was, 
and I found it here. I found out that I 
was a composer.... I think everyones 
years at college are really important, 
because you meet compatriots. At my 
high school, I could not say I knew 
many like-minded individuals. Then I 
arrived at CMU and I was over
whelmed, said Gordon. I was like, 
wow! These people are serious! I 
remember how surprised my father 
was, because I left home as a very 
gregarious person, and then I would
See ALUMNI, page A3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27
Nation, World, Academia,.Region
Weather
TUESDAYHi 49 Lo 41
WEDNESDAYHi 53 Lo 39
THURSDAY
Hi 58 Lo 42
FRIDAYHi 65 Lo 50
SATURDAY
Hi 64 Lo 52
I
Crime & Incident
Chemical Spill, 10/14/03, 
11:34 pm  A CMU police officer 
responded to reports of a hissing 
noise coming from Doherty Hall 
room B-201. A valve and hose con
necting a 25-gallon steel tank of liq
uid nitrogen to an experimental 
setup had become disconnected 
from the experiment and was 
spilling liquid nitrogen all over the 
room, causing computers, desks, 
cables, and the tank itself to freeze. 
The officer contacted the appropri
ate emergency personnel. The 
researcher involved in the experi
ment arrived on scene and 
explained that there was no danger, 
promising to handle the clean-up 
involved, as all of the frozen equip
ment had begun to thaw.
Fight, 10/15/03, 1:15 am  
Campus Police received a call from 
a male in Wean 5328 regarding a 
fight, and then the line went dead. 
Six officers were dispatched. The 
' fight had already ended by the time 
the officers arrived at the scene, but
several witnesses and the fights 
participants were on hand to 
recount what had happened. The 
consensus was that one student 
had been harassing another, grow
ing more agitated and aggressive. 
Though asked by the student he 
was harassing and by other stu
dents in the room to leave, he 
instead began what he described as 
play-fighting with the student. 
When told that University Police 
would be contacted, he pulled the 
phone cord from the wall. One wit
ness reported that this is not the 
first time the student had harassed 
his fellow student. The student was 
escorted from the scene by an offi
cer and instructed not to contact 
the student he had been harassing 
until contacted by Student Life. The 
other student refused medical 
attention. One witness reported 
having received a bruise to her 
knee and several scrapes when she 
tried to break up the fight.
Six Get Drunk, Five Get Cited, 
10/17/03, 1:35 am  A
Morewood RA contacted Campus 
Police to report six intoxicated perons on his floor. Upon their arrival, 
the officers received from the RA a 
piece of paper on which was writ
ten the names of the intoxicated 
males. The RA stated that two of 
the parties involved had claimed
they had to go to the bathroom and 
then never returned. EMS was on 
scene to attend to one of the stu
dents, Victor Polshin, who was 
reported as falling asleep. Polshin 
was transported to UPMC 
Presbyterian. The remaining stu
dents, Sergey Shchukin, Mikhail 
Sher, Erian Burkitbayev, and David 
Schultheis, admitted to drinking in 
celebration of Schultheiss birth
day. Schultheis student was 21 
years old and was not cited. The 
other three were issued state cita
tions for underage drinking; the 
passed-out student will receive his 
in the mail. The two students who 
had gone to the bathroom, Abby 
Bednar and Santiago Gomez, were 
later issued state citadons as well.
A Little Too Friendly, 
10/20/03, 1:34 pm  A student 
approached a CMU police officer 
on Frew Street and told the officer 
that a man had approached her and 
asked her several questions while 
she was working on her car. The 
student told the man that she was 
busy and didnt have tme for the 
questions, to which the man 
responded that there was no need 
to be rude and then departed. The 
student advised the officer that the 
man was walking towards the 
Schenley Park bridge. The officer 
stopped the man on Frank Curto
Drive and explained to him the rea
son for stopping him, to which the 
man replied that he was talking to 
the student and she didnt have to 
be rude to him. He stated that he 
just likes to get to know the people 
in his community. The officer asked 
if the man had been in any CMU 
buildings and the man replied that 
he had entered Scaife Hall to use 
the restroom. The officer told the 
man that his actions had offended 
the student, and that if he were 
seen on campus again in the future, 
he would be cited for defiant tres
pass or harassment.
Free Drinks, 10/06/03, 4:25 
pm  A CMU police officer 
responded to a report that people 
were obtaining free drinks from a 
vending machine in Morewood 
Gardens. The officer noticed that 
the control panel locking mecha
nism had been unlocked by leaving 
the panel in the locked position but 
removing the pin. He contacted the 
vendor, who promptly dispatched 
someone to repair the machine.
Suspicious Person, Possible 
Theft, 10/24/03, 11:14 am  A
Hunt Library employee contacted 
Campus Police to report that a sus
picious person had been seen steal
ing from people in the library while 
they were away from their desks.
Four officers responded. A descrip
tion of the actor was taken, and a 
man matching that description was 
located at Skibo Coffeehouse. The 
officer who located the man 
approached him and learned that 
he had come to campus to use a 
computer to check on the job mar
ket. He claimed he did not have a 
picture ID. Two detectives were dis
patched, and the man allowed the 
detectives to search the duffel bag 
he had with him. A wallet was pro
cured and the information on his 
drivers license matched the infor
mation he had given about himself. 
No witness was available at the 
time, so the man was released, but 
a student later came forward and 
claimed to have observed the man 
stealing from library patrons, after 
which he informed a librarian.
Nationa, ,Wrrinl dAcde ,m dAc.
Free Stuff on This Campus?!: 1 
Drinking Legitimately: 1 
Thefts from Lockers: 2 
Total Thefts Across Campus: 16
Page 2 Compiled by 
Daniel Goldman
CollegeWire
Stanford students 
using more Zoloft
(U-WIRE) STANFORD, Calif.  
,.In the last 10 years, Stanford 
i University has seen a dramatic rise 
in the number of students seeking 
i psychological counseling and using 
psychotropic drugs such as Zoloft,
 Pfozac, and Wellbutrin, reflecting 
an increasing trend among college 
students nationwide. Counseling 
rand Psychological Services (CAPS) 
counsels 10 percent of the Stanford 
student body each year. In addition, 
the Bridge, a confidential peerqounseling service with a 24-hour 
-.hotline and nighttime drop-in 
hours, receives an average of one or 
two calls a day.
Through Vaden [Health Center], 
there has been a pretty significant 
increase in the use of antidepres, sants at Stanford in the past 10 
; years, said Alejandro Martinez, 
director of CAPS. There has also 
fbeen an increase in the number of 
students that are seeking help.
Martinez attributed the trend to 
greater willingness to accept psy
chological assistance from others
but noted that there continues to be 
a significant number of people who 
reject the idea of receiving outside 
help.
There is still a proportion of stu
dents that have indicated to us 
through surveys that under no cir
cumstances would they even consid
er seeking out counseling services 
that are offered here, he said.
Will, a senior and Bridge coun
selor who asked to be identified by 
only his first name, said he agreed 
that many students feel that they 
should manage the problem alone.
I think that the stigma attached 
to depression  and unhappiness  
is symptomatic of, basically, the 
pressure to be perfect in every way 
that we often experience at 
Stanford, he said. However, its 
important to realize that the point is 
that feeling completely alone and 
helpless is both commonplace and 
extremely detrimental.
According to Martinez, the most 
common issues students seek help 
with are interpersonal relationships, 
depression, and anxiety.
Experts believe that a school envi
ronment can play a large role in the 
psychology of its students.
I was blown away at how nice the 
people are here, especially by the 
fact that its more common to say 
good things than bad things about
the school here, said Mike LeBeau, a 
junior transfer from the University of 
Chicago. I think that the nice 
weather and the safety of this loca
tion add to the background scenery 
and play a large part in the campus 
mood.
His roommate, Jonathan Aroner, a 
junior transfer from the University of 
California at San Diego, also said he 
believes that school surroundings 
can encourage positive emotional 
health in a student body.
I come from a school where 66 
percent of students lived off-campus, he said, and it seems to me 
that dorm living helps to foster a 
more caring community atmos
phere, so that it becomes more diffi
cult for depression to go unseen.
Stanfords residential education 
system is specifically designed to 
keep community health in mind, 
with resident assistants and Peer 
Health Educators undergoing spe
cialized training to learn how to deal 
with psychological issues that may 
arise in a dorm environment.
Most of our training with refer
ence to depression is just learning to 
identify it, said junior Mike Endler, 
an RA. If its something serious 
thats out of our realm to help with, 
then we can suggest that they talk to 
CAPS or the Bridge. The problem 
may be that not enough students
seek them out.
Many believe that the issue of 
depression at Stanford is neither 
better nor worse than it is at other 
schools.
I dont think that the problem 
here is any more severe than it is at 
other top universities, said junior 
Kristen Carothers, a peer health 
educator.
Liquor store faces 
charges, files own
(U-WIRE) NORMAN, Okla.  
Two complaints filed by a Norman 
liquor store owner against a reporter 
for The Oklahoma Daily were signed 
by the Norman city attorneys office 
on Thursday, according to court 
records.
Robert Gowens, owner of Hob 
Nob Robs Retail Liquor Store and 
Party Kegs, filed complaints of dis
turbing the peace and trespassing 
against Daily reporter Kendal Kelly, 
according to the records of the 
Norman Municipal Court.
Gowens complaints were the 
result of an incident during an inter
view between Kelly and Gowens on 
October 16 at Hob Nob Robs liquor 
store.
The same day of the interview,
Kelly filed a complaint of assault and 
battery against Gowens.
Kelly was researching reports that 
suite-holders at Oklahoma 
Memorial Stadium were receiving 
deliveries of liquor from local ven
dors, which would violate state 
liquor laws.
In Kellys story, published October 
17, suite-holders were quoted as 
having said the University of 
Oklahoma athletic department for
warded their liquor orders to Hob 
Nob Robs Liquor Store, which then 
delivered the liquor to their suites.
In a story written by Kelly for the 
Daily on Wednesday, Kenny 
Mossman, director of athletic media 
relations, said the athletic depart
ment will no longer accept alcohol 
orders from suite-holders and for
ward them to Hob Nob Robs, which 
the athletic department had been 
doing since 1995.
The Oklahoma Alcoholic 
Beverage Laws Enforcement 
Commission (ABLE) is investigating 
whether Hob Nob Robs has been 
illegally delivering alcohol to the 
suites in Oklahoma Memorial 
Stadium.
We are looking into allegations 
that a retail liquor store or stores 
may be delivering liquor off their 
premises, ABLE assistant director 
Tommy Marvell said Monday.
Murphy wants to 
sell city property
PITTSBURGH (AP)  Pittsburgh 
Mayor Tom Murphy wants to sell or 
close city assets including 20 city swim
ming pools, nine recreation centers, 
and four senior centers to deal with the 
citys projected $85 million budget 
deficit next year.
Were looking at where we might 
aggressively pursue partnerships with 
churches, community organizations 
and other organizations such as the 
Boys and Girls Clubs to take over some 
of these responsibilities, Murphy said 
Friday.
A mayoral task force chaired by phil
anthropist and Republican power bro
ker Elsie Hillman and former U.S. Steel 
chief executive David Roderick wants 
to see the city cut $40 million in spend
ing before it could receive $46 million 
in revenue from new or increased taxes 
that must be approved by the 
Legislature.
Lawmakers have expressed skepti
cism over the task force proposals, say
ing they prefer to see a state oversight 
board  like one used to guide 
Philadelphia out of financial trouble in 
the 1990s  before approving the 
taxes.
A linchpin of Murphys plan contin
ues to be $15 million in annual savings 
that would come from merging the 
citys fire and paramedic bureaus, a 
move that has been fought by the fire
fighters union.
Union president Joe King said he was 
weighing job cuts that would come 
with such a merger against job losses 
that could occur if the city runs out of 
money.
Im always worried about bankrupt
cy, King said. Bankruptcy is not 
healthy for the region. But I cant just 
cut people and embrace an unsafe 
product (a merged fire and paramedics 
department) based on economics.
Nursing home pres, 
charged for death
PITTSBURGH (AP)  The president 
of a nursing home who was charged in 
the death of a resident has been 
ordered to have no more contact with 
the facility and to surrender her pass
port after more than $51,000 was with
drawn from the business bank account.
Martha Fenchak-Bell, 57, of West 
Mifflin, has denied wrongdoing in the 
death of 86-year-old Mabel Taylor, who 
wandered outside the Ronald Reagan 
Atrium One Nursing and Rehabilitation 
Center in Robinson Township and died 
in the cold in October 2001.
Fenchak-Bell, and the nursing home 
itself, were charged Wednesday with 
involuntary manslaughter. Nurse 
Kathleen Galati, 58, of Pittsburgh, was 
charged with perjury and falsifying evi
dence to cover up the death.
Authorities contend that Taylors 
body was carried inside, cleaned up 
and put in bed before her family was 
called and told the woman, who suf
fered from Alzheimers disease, died 
peacefully in her sleep.
At the request of the state Health 
Department, a judge appointed Grane 
Healthcare of O'Hara to run the facility.
Two checks for $40,000 and $11,500 
were written against the homes payroll 
account Thursday, a day after FenchakBell and Galati were charged and the 
nursing home was put under Granes 
control. The new managers learned of 
the withdrawals when some workers 
complained about paychecks that 
bounced, authorities said.
On Friday, investigators asked 
County Judge Lawrence OToole to bar 
Fenchak-Bell from the nursing home 
and make her forfeit her passport.
State health department officials 
have said Fenchak-Bell and Galati were 
still considered employees of the nurs
ing home after they were charged in 
Taylors death but that their status, and 
whether they would continue to be 
paid, was still under review.
Fenchak-Bell and her attorney, 
Alexander Lindsay, attended Fridays 
hearing, but she refused to discuss the 
checks afterward. Lindsay has asked for 
another hearing on Monday to chal
lenge Granes control of the nursing 
home, which is owned by the nonprofit 
Alzheimers Disease Alliance of 
Western Pennsylvania, a group headed 
by Fenchak-Bell.
Impeachment bid 
dismissed by judge
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A judge dis
missed a mans bid to impeach 
Pittsburghs mayor, calling the filing 
unconstitutional.
Allegheny County President Judge 
Robert Kelly in a one-sentence order 
Friday dismissed former businessman 
Jim Gencos petition to toss out Mayor 
Tom Murphy.
Genco, 48, said he collected more 
than 4000 signatures to impeach 
Murphy because he believes the mayor 
has mismanaged the citys finances.
Many of the signatures were collect
ed in August, after Murphy laid off 730 
workers and slashed various city ser
vices to stave off a $40 million budget 
shortfall this year.
Richest Russian jailed 
for fraud and forgery
" MOSCOW (AP)  Billionaire oil tycoon 
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, jailed on charges of 
fraud, forgery, and tax evasion, spent his first 
night in custody in a notoriously overcrowded 
detention facility, the Interfax news agency 
reported Sunday.
Khodorkovsky, who heads the countrys 
largest oil company, Yukos, and is regarded as 
Russias richest man, was jailed Saturday after 
being seized by special forces at an airport in 
Siberia where his private jet had landed.
He was then taken to Moscow, interrogated, 
and charged, in a dramatic escalation of a 
months-long probe of Yukos that the company 
and observers across the political spectrum 
say appears to be politically motivated. 
Khodorkovsky has funded two liberal opposi
tion parties.
 His lawyer Anton Drel said that a court late 
Saturday ordered Khodorkovsky to be held for 
up to two months in a pre-trial detention facil-ity, which Interfax identified as Moscows 
troubled Matrosskaya Tishina.
- Russias shabby and crowded pre-trial 
detention units are often regarded as worse 
than the prisons to which convicts are sent. 
Interfax cited Deputy Justice Minister Yuri 
Kalinin as saying that Matrosskaya Tishina 
currently has about 3500 detainees in the 
facility built for 2500.
Still, this isnt terrible  last year there 
"were 8500 people held there, Kalinin was 
'quoted as saying.
.Quakes rock Chinese 
counties, killing nine
-' BEIJING (AP)  Authorities lowered water 
levels of two reservoirs in northwestern China 
'after two powerful tremors shook the remote, 
earthquake-prone region, killing at least nine 
people and injuring dozens, the government 
said Sunday.
Th^ earthquakes ^ measured at magni
tudes 6.1 and 5.8, respectively  hit a desert 
area of Gansu province at 8:41 and 8:48 pm 
Saturday, the State Seismological Bureau said.
More than 40 people were injured, six seri
ously, according to the official Xinhua News 
Agency, reporting from Lanzhou, the provin
cial capital.
Local officials reported collapsed houses 
and scores of minor aftershocks.
Authorities lowered the water levels of two 
reservoirs in the area, saying they feared 
flooding after they spotted cracks on dams 
after the quakes.
The hardest-hit areas were Minle and 
Shandan counties near the city of Zhangye, 
roughly 850 miles west of the capital, Beijing.
The death toll, initially listed as four, dou
bled Sunday afternoon after four missing peo
ple were found in rubble of collapsed build
ings, Xinhua said. An additional death was 
reported later.
Man arrested for theft 
of left shoes in Tokyo
TOKYO (AP)  Police arrested a man for 
stealing shoes at a southern Japanese hospi
tal, then found a collection in his home of 440 
womens shoes  all for the left foot.
The private hospital in Usu city, 500 miles 
south of Tokyo, began receiving complaints 
two years ago from patients and employees 
that shoes removed at the entrance hall were 
disappearing. In Japan, it is customary to 
remove shoes before entering homes and 
some public facilities.
The missing footwear was always for the 
left foot and in a womens shoe style, a local 
police spokesman said Sunday.
Ichiro Irie, 45, was arrested Saturday on 
suspicion of having stolen two leather shoes 
the previous day during one of his twiceweekly hospital visits, the spokesman said.
In Iries home, police found a box in a closet 
overflowing with the left mate to 440 pairs of 
womens shoes, including high heels, patent 
leather pumps, sandals and nurses shoes.
When questioned about the alleged thefts, 
Irie told police he had a penchant for 
womens feet, the Yomiuri newspaper, a 
major daily, reported.
NationWire
Escaped murderers 
located, still in prison
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP)  Two convict
ed murderers who disappeared after allegedly 
beating another inmate to death at a prison ice 
plant were found Sunday, still inside the 
Missouri State Penitentiary.
Inmates Christopher Sims and Shannon 
Phillips were discovered in the same building 
where they are believed to have killed convict
ed murderer Toby Viles four days iearlier, cor
rections department spokesman John Fougere 
said.
Hundreds of prison officials had been 
combing the penitentiary and its grounds 
since the men disappeared Wednesday, sus
pecting the inmates might never have 
escaped. No evidence of an escape had been 
found and no sightings of the men had been 
reported.
They had constructed a very carefully con
cealed false wall, which was right near their 
work site at the ice house, Fougere said. He 
said the two likely had remained behind the 
wall most of time they were missing.
They were found when a prison staff mem
ber, tapping the wall as part of the search, was 
able to punch a hole in it, Fougere said.
Phillips immediately stuck his hand out and 
said, I give up.
Phillips, 35, has been serving a life prison 
sentence for a murder in Kansas City. Sims, 27, 
has been serving a life sentence for a murder 
in St. Louis.
California fire destroys 
many homes, kills two
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. (AP)  Powerful 
Santa Ana winds kicked up before dawn 
Sunday, driving two ferocious firestorms that 
had already burned more than 200 homes into 
dozens more houses. Two people apparently 
trying to escape another wildfire in San Diego 
County died in their car.
In a canyon at the edge of Claremont, west of 
San Bernardino, about 50 homes were in 
flames Sunday morning as the winds swept a 
more than 34,000-acre wildfire into Los 
Angeles County.
Were not sure exactly how many burned 
because we cant get up there, said Los 
Angeles County fire Inspector Edward Osorio.
The fire had started in the Rancho 
Cucamonga area Tuesday and destroyed 16 
homes in San Bernardino County before 
spreading west across the county line. Osorio 
said Sunday that authorities were going 
through the cities of La Verne and Claremont, 
urging people to evacuate.
Closer to San Bernardino, a wildfire that 
burned at least 200 homes Saturday and was 
blamed for the stress-related deaths of two res
idents was threatening at least 1000 homes 
Sunday. The smoke and flames forced the 
evacuation of a university campus, Indian casi
no, and state mental hospital, and firefighters 
couldnt say when it might be contained.
In some areas, the two wildfires were only 
about a mile apart Sunday and were expected 
to eventually merge, said Ranger Gabriel 
Garcia of the San Bernardino National Forests 
fire suppression agency.
Correction^/ clarifications
October 13: News  On page Al, in the article entitled Senate dealing with absentees, 
vacancies, Sergio de Orbeta was listed as having been removed from Student Senate for 
absenteeism based on inaccurate information provided to The Tartan. He was not removed 
at all, but resigned from his position in May of 2003.
October 13: News  On page A4, in an article entitled Berard fills FOCUS editor posi
tion, Whitney Hess is listed as a professional and technical writing major; she is merely a 
professional writing major.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, contact the 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at (412) 268-2111.*_________________________________________>___________________________________o

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003
Rangos hosts alumni, student awardsComputing Services creates NetNotify
Lerchey. Lerchey said Computing 
Services is now trying to centralize 
services while keeping the network 
as open as possible.
It is easy to act like a corporation 
and say Thou shalt only use these 
ports, he said. Funds are now avail
able within the Computing Services 
budget for an addition to the securi
ty staff who would report directly to 
him.
We would like to be able to run 
regular scans and have web pages 
which users can access that tells 
them what theyre running that is 
dangerous and how they can turn 
those things off, said Lerchey.
This type of a website is intended 
to raise awareness and give better 
information to computer users won
dering how open their machine is to 
the evils of the Internet. Both 
Lerchey and Smith indicate that 
CMU network users should monitor 
one of the official news channels 
concerning vulnerabilities that were 
mentioned in the campus-wide email so that they are not caught off
guard and experience repeated 
instances of downtime. Computing 
Services hope with their future 
plans for campus network security is 
that forewarned is forearmed.
a computers lack of appropriate 
patching and when the time came to 
reconnect it, they had to manually 
restore the connection to that com
puter through every link in the net
work chain, from NetReg to the fil
ters on the routers, devices that con
trol the flow of data across the net
work. NetNotify automates tHe 
process of taking the computer off 
the network and restoring them, 
including when port scanners 
inform it of a vulnerability and the 
notification of John Lerchey, com
puter network security coordinator 
for Computing Services, that your 
computer should be put back on the 
network. Port scanners are programs 
that test for vulnerabilities in a set of 
targeted computers by sending out 
messages to the sections of an 
Internet connection  the ports  
and analyzing the response to deter
mine whether or not the tested 
machine is patched.
According to Lerchey, this years 
network security troubles have 
prompted the administration to ask 
for a long-term security plan.
Two years ago, we were taking a 
couple of machines down a week. 
With Welchia and Blaster, we were 
pulling hundreds per day, said
ers here. You set a great tone of learn
ing for me here, and thank you for the 
honor, said Danson.
Danson received the Distinguished 
Achievement Award, which is given 
for distinguished service and accom
plishment in any field of human 
endeavor that brings honor to the 
recipient and the University.
Another Distinguished
Achievement Award recipient was
Frank J. Millero, _________________
vvho^was^ ^reco^-
raPhy, and has licPb So x8FFTi, received several
awards in the past for his teaching 
and research accomplishments. 
Millero is also a firm believer in inter
disciplinary teaching.
To solve the very complex prob
lems in the world today, interdiscipli
nary work is necessary, he said.
I came from a town where there 
was nothing, nothing! But this town 
was like somebody pouring water on 
my head ... and consequently, I may 
never retire! said Ann Ross, a cos
tume designer whose work has been 
successful in Broadway shows and 
films alike.
On stage, her work includes A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, The Odd Couple, The House of Blue Leaves, and Present Laughter. In film, 
Ross was nominated for an Academy 
Award for Places in the Heart and The Hours, and won an Oscar for The English Patient.
Cohon ended the ceremony by 
expressing the Universitys gratitude.
These people have already given 
so much service.... thank you for all 
you have done, said Cohon.
ALUMNI, from page A1she received during her junior and 
senior years, which kept her in 
school.
This is a 
wonderful 
honor, and its 
also a very 
humbling expe
rience, to be 
with all these 
other alumni, 
said Jennifer H. 
Elisseeff, recip
ient of the 
Young Alumni 
Award, which 
is granted to an 
individual who 
has attained exceptional accomplish
ment in the nominees chosen occu
pation during the first 10 years fol
lowing the receipt of his bachelors 
degree. Elisseeff is an assistant pro
fessor of biomedical engineering at 
Johns Hopkins University, and is one 
of the premier scientists working 
with tissue engineering and regener
ative medicine research.
The next person recognized was 
Ted Danson, who is famous for his 
role as Sam Malone in Cheers, and 
also for many other performances as 
an actor, including his roles in films
Heat, in TVNfe 'S'?*
Frasier, and The
starring role as fl
the CBS sitcom ^Becker. Danson Ted Danson
thanked the University.
I really do owe everything to 
CMU.... for me, it was a playground, 
an intellectual playground. My teach
ers were amazing.... I was taught by 
some of the sweetest, smartest teach
by Alex MeseguerNews Editorcome back and write music all 
through Christmas break.
Gordon said that it was at CMU 
that he really diversified his talents.
I was studying poetry, I was taking 
English classes  I was using that 
school like a Renaissance man who 
became an octopus, and had a thou
sand arms in a thousand doors.... I 
left with friends who were painters, 
architecture students, singers, actors, 
writers, and all of those people con
tinue to frequent my life and my 
work.... CMU was not just a place I 
went to and left; its a place I took 
with me, everywhere, he said.
The next alumni to receive an 
award was Rob Marshall, who has 
choreographed several theatre and
film produc^....  --fjE-r->
tions, including 
the revival of Cabaret, the 
Broadway 
revival of Damn Yankees, and the  |
Los Angeles 
stage revival of 
Chicago. He also 
directed and 
choreographed 
the film version 
of Chicago.
I was taught to be myself.... there 
was a sense of safety and freedom, 
he said, recalling his years at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Candace Sheffield Matthews 
received the Alumni Merit Award for 
her hugely successful career in mar
keting. She has worked for many 
companies, including the Coca-Cola 
Company and LOreal USA, which 
acquired Soft Sheen Products Inc. in 
1998 and Carson Products in 1999. 
The two companies merged in August 
2000 to become Soft Sheen/Carson 
of which Matthews became president 
in 2001. Matthews was especially 
grateful to CMU for the scholarships
Last Wednesday, Joel Smith, vice 
provost for communications and 
Carnegie Mellons chief information 
officer, e-mailed the campus com
munity, urging them to be vigilant in 
watching for computer viruses and 
vulnerabilities. This e-mail was a 
product of Computing Services new 
effort to speed up the process of 
restoring computer to the campus 
network due to security problems.
The last few months have been 
the worst in the history of the 
Internet for attacks on vulnerabili
ties in operating systems and appli
cations, wrote Smith in an e-mail.
Hundreds of students have had emails informing them of their com
puters security vulnerability or even 
had their network access revoked. 
Computing Services is attempting to 
reduce the amount of time a users 
computer is off the network with 
their new system called NetNotify.
NetNotify is Computing Services 
treatment for the security disease 
that has riddled CMUs network with 
inactive computers. Previously, 
when Computing Services detected
hcPecrT uATll8TFe 
xcmmATHE
R,N xciEAcFForum for diplomas
Fiore, Senate chair. He said that 
while this is not the most important 
issue on campus, citing dining as 
perhaps the highest priority for stu
dents, this is an issue that is impor
tant to students.
A lot of Senators felt insulted by 
how things went earlier this semes
ter, he said.
Papinchak said a forum arranged 
by Senate would provide feedback to 
the office of the Provost. He also said 
that the decision lies with the 
University, but that student feedback 
is valuable.
[The diploma] got to be very clut
tered between having all the colleges 
names, all the signatures as more 
and more student started accumu
lating more majors and minors, said 
Nair. Instead of being a declaration 
that you have passed a milestone, it 
became just an accounting sheet. 
And so the dignity of the diploma is 
lost, I think when it becomes an 
accounting sheet.
asked, and he just said yes to all 
without any kind of consultation, 
because in those days people mostly 
did things, said Nair. She said now 
the diploma has been cluttered with 
the history of a student at CMU, and 
has moved away from a diplomas 
purpose, hence, the changes.
Steven Kling, chair of the Business 
Affairs Committee for Senate said, 
Most of the problems people had 
werent with the changes. [The reso
lution] is more saying you screwed 
up twice in getting these changes 
done.
Kling, the resolutions author, said 
that he believes that there is merit to 
the argument that at a University 
where colleges like CIT accept a stu
dent as opposed to the University at 
large, colleges are important to rec
ognize on the diploma.
It was definitely wrong for the 
administration to go forward with 
[diploma changes] after consulting 
students three years ago, said Vito
DIPLOMA, from page Al
diploma was designed by Dan 
Boyarski, the head of the School of 
Design.
The point of a diploma is a decla
ration of the university to the world 
that you have been given a certain 
credential, Nair said. To me, the 
biggest thing is bachelor of science, 
master of science, with university 
honors; the very, very high level, the 
meta-level information is what a 
diploma gives.
Nair said the transcript is not sup
posed to be a historical account.
Richard Cyert, University presi
dent from 1980 until his death in 
1998, originally acceded to a 
request from CFA students to put 
additional majors and minors on the 
diploma.
If you were a drama student and 
you also had music or you also had 
art, they felt it was an additional 
thing in the fine arts realm, so they
Student reaction to Cohons deci
sion was positive, if somewhat 
unconcerned.
I think it shows hes really dedicat
ed to Carnegie Mellon and hes com
mitted to helping us become one of 
the leading institutions in the coun
try. It shows hes not in it for the 
money, said Ellie Delancey, a senior 
in biological sciences.
Another student had a less positive 
response.
If you said Dean Murphy, that 
would have more of an impact. No 
one sees President Cohon. Hes too 
high up. As long as hes not fucking 
me over too badly, I dont care [if he 
stays], said Rashan Walker, a junior 
business administration major.
According to Cohon, he has many 
reasons for declining to be a candi
date in the search, including that he 
has invested a lot of time at Carnegie 
Mellon and that the next few years 
can be especially good and he doesnt 
want to miss out on them. He also 
noted that the choice did not involve
Serving the Carnegie Mellon 
community, offering catering 
for any event of any size.
hwam,Il rutow8I sIuInu goe2,u
Pastas 
Veal 
Chicken 
Fish & Seafood 
Focaccio Pizzas 
Italian Specialties
BEDOUIN, from page A1side to support their point of view. He 
is a result of the occupation. He chose 
the side that gave him a better life, 
said Kamhawi after the lecture. There 
were signs of disagreement and ten
sion in the room, but people waited 
patiently for the dessert reception held 
afterwards to debate and discuss top
ics that had arisen during the lecture.
I know various organizations that 
are very against the YZOA because 
they are violating international law 
and violating laws of human rights, 
said Kamhawi. The head of the 
YZOA, Vanyukov responded, YZOA 
is simply an informational resource 
for students, faculty and community 
members alike. Certainly, we would 
pursue a certain purpose which is the 
support of Israel. But at the same
time, we always provide a foundation 
for everything we believe in.
Khaldi also mentioned his strolig 
belief that it was pro-Palestinians 
who tore down the posters. 
Nonetheless, this aggression towards 
Khaldi has not discouraged him from 
speaking out to the public. The cul
prits and motives behind this act 
remain unidentified.
As a part of a nationwide campius 
tour, Ishmael Khaldi has traveled to 
many different campuses speaking to 
the younger college demographic. 
Khaldi said that due to the recent 
anti-Israeli sentiment, he is commit
ted to showing Americans, by the 
example of his own story, the truth 
about Israelis: that the people dont 
want war.
Vanyukov, the head of YZOA.
Khaldis lecture emphasized he was 
offered a good life among the Israelis, 
noting that Bedouins were able to 
serve in the Army, own property, and 
vote.
We all have electricity and radios 
now.... they even listen to Britney 
Spears! said Khaldi.
Khalid Kamhawi, a Palestinian and 
a senior mechanical engineering 
major, said at the end of Khaldis 
speech that he thought it was ironic 
that Bedouins are a nomadic commu
nity, and a man that has no home is 
fighting against the right of 
Palestinians to return to their home.
[Khaldi] is funded by the Israeli7O7cb03University installs new card readers
SECURITY, from page A1nity when the card access system was 
implemented in 2001,
People thought it was inconven
ient but most people think now its 
not a big of a deal, said Major.
I would probably be annoyed at 
first because Im used to going in and 
out, said Mary Spotts, a senior 
ethics, history, and public policy 
major. I never felt unsafe in Porter 
and Baker Hall, never thought we 
needed it but I guess its good. I wont 
think twice about it afterwards.
The security access systems are all 
connected to a database control serv
er which is located at Campus Police 
headquarters. When a card is swiped, 
information about the location of 
entry and time of entry are recorded. 
Campus Police is the only entity at 
the University that has access to this 
information. The data is automatical
ly purged in 45 days.
There was no heavy-duty work 
involved in the installations.
Some things were done aestheti
cally like cleaning up and repairing
the doors but no major construction, 
said Major.
Specifics about the costs charged 
to the project of purchasing and 
installing the card access system 
could not be disclosed. Major said 
that he did not feel he had the 
authority to disclose budgeting infor
mation and Doyle said he knew noth
ing about the initial costs, but men
tioned that they were not large. 
Elliott could not be reached for com
ment. All other costs that come after
wards such as maintenance and 
repairs will fall under the Campus 
Police department budget.
Along the same lines, Housing 
Services and the Student Dormitory 
Council are currently discussing 
security issues concerning the con
venience of access to dorms that are 
locked at all times. The card access 
system for dorms is similar to those 
installed in academic buildings; stu
dents must swipe their Carnegie 
Mellon ID and the card maintains an 
audit trail of entries.
Porter Hall is just a continuation of 
what was initiated in January 2001 
by William Elliott, vice president of 
enrollment, Chief Doyles predeces
sor James LaPaglia, and Harold 
Major, facilities management servic
es project manager. The first wave of 
card access systems was installed in 
Doherty Hall, Newell-Simon Hall, 
and Wean. This committee is looking 
to expand on this project to other 
academic buildings and eventually 
have the whole campus be card 
accessible. Currently Baker and 
Porter Hall, Doherty Hall, Newell 
Simon Hall, Wean, GSIA, and 
Hamburg Hall are locked down and 
card accessible in the evenings.
According to Doyle, they have a 
tentative list of buildings that are pri
oritized by the crime or safety issues 
that have occurred and the feedback 
and interest of students and faculty.
The University initially expected 
negative reactions from the commu
UJOO
3312 Babcock Boulevard Mon Closed
Pittsburgh, PA 15237 Tues-Thurs 11a-lOp
North Hills Area Fri-Sat lla-llp
412-366-4948 Sun lp-9p
Claudios employs many Carnegie Mellon students.

---------------------------------------------------

An energetic performance
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Local band Inventory played in the UC last Tuesday at Energy Fest 2003. The festival, sponsored by Carnegie Mellons Green Practices Committee, featured 
speakers from local companies and faculty from Carnegie Mellon and Pitt on such subjects as bio-diesel, fuel cells, and green roofs. Organizations from around 
Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania set up booths to explain their work and gave out more information on energy conservation and alternative energy sources.
27 October 2003 THE TARTAN Page A4
M. Granger Morgan 
and Jon M. Peha, editors
S,T nFF8,mm
Turn off your phone and pay 
attention, because Im going to tell 
you how cellular phones work.
Mobile phones have become 
ubiquitous in recent years. In many 
cases, they provide a more afford
able way of making phone calls 
than a traditional land-line tele
phone.
What separates cellular phones 
from other radio communication 
devices is that they have a very 
short range and rely on many base 
station transmitters and their asso
ciated cells to relay signals to the 
hard-wired phone system to con
nect calls. A cell is the area serviced 
by a given base station transmitter, 
generally about ten square miles.
All of a service providers cells 
communicate with a Mobile 
Telephone Switching Office, or 
MTSO for short. There is generally 
one MTSO per city, and it coordi
nates all of the base stations.
If you move from one cell to 
another, the base station through 
which youre communicating tells 
the MTSO that your signal strength 
is diminishing, and it will switch
your call to a base station from 
which you can get a stronger signal.
Even older analog (non-digital) 
phones can do all this without 
interrupting your conversation 
because several radio frequencies 
are used simultaneously.
One carries your voice to the base 
station, another carries what youre 
listening to from the base station to 
your phone, and a third (sometimes 
more), called the control frequen
cy, coordinates things like switch
ing from one base station to anoth
er as you move from cell to cell.
The control frequency also keeps 
track of things like whether youre 
in range of one of your providers 
base stations at all when youre not 
talking, and identifies your phone 
to the nearest base station so it can 
update the MTSO with your posi
tion. That way the MTSO knows to 
which base station to relay your 
calls.
This basic technology debuted in 
1983. Subsequent advances in digi
tal electronics have improved the 
system and made the phones small
er and more reliable, helping to add 
features and allowing the system to 
support more simultaneous phone 
calls.
Many of the parts that make up a
Microsoft showcases innovations
Newest Xbox game and Smart Personal Object Technology displayed to Carnegie 
Mellon students at Microsoft Days event last Monday through Wednesday
ur8TPrT cPe 
aTrAP,F,ts 
pef8rT l,i 
h,PtiTEE
Professors want Congress 
to get good science advice
by John DavinContributing Editor
President George Bush delivered a 
nationally televised speech in August 
i 2001 in which he declared his deci
sion on the issue of human cloning: 
federally-funded research would be 
limited to existing embryonic stem 
cell lines, which are used to repro
duce human cells. Bush also entreat
ed the Senate to approve a ban on 
human cloning that had passed in the 
House of Representatives. Within 
Congress there was a great deal of 
debate, but much of it centered 
around politicians personal beliefs 
rather than facts.
M. Granger Morgan, head of 
Carnegie Mellons engineering and 
public policy (EPP) program, and Jon 
Peha, a professor in EPP and electri
cal and computing engineering, think 
that Congress has been left without a 
reliable source of information on sci
ence and technology issues. Last 
month, Morgan and Peha presented 
copies of their book Science and Technology Advice for Congress to all 
members of the Senate and House. 
The book explains the lack of unbi
ased advice available to Congress, 
and presents some possible solutions.
Congress addresses many compli
cated technological and scientific 
issues each year. Congressional mem
bers often consult experts in a rele
vant field, or one of several advising 
organizations, but unbiased opinions 
are difficult to obtain.
According to Morgan, on issues like 
cloning, many parties have potential 
biases in giving advice to Congress  
for example, scientists at biotech 
companies may have a vested interest 
in promoting cloning because they 
stand to profit. 
Congress used to 
have an advising 
organization, 
the Office of 
Technology 
Assessment 
(OTA), which 
was known for 
providing wellresearched 
M. ,s98.ts hIs.98 advice that pre
sented all sides
of an issue.
But the OTA was abolished in 1995 
when Congress voted to cut the 
groups '$20 million budget in an 
effort to reduce spending.
Morgan and Peha, along with other 
supporters, say that the advising 
organizations Congress consults, 
such as the National Academies of 
Science (NAS) and the General 
Accounting Office (GAO), do not pro
vide the comprehensive analysis that 
the OTA did.
When OTA ended, it left quite a 
gap, said Morgan. The OTA provided 
long-range analysis of broad technol
ogy and scientific policy issues, and 
produced reports that were often 
over 100 pages long and offered a 
number of different policy options for 
legislators. The other advising orga
nizations often provide only one poli
cy recommendation. Morgan and 
Peha urge that Congress fill the void 
left by the OTA.
But it may be a while before 
Congress is motivated to implement 
any changes. A fair number of mem
bers are perfectly happy to make a 
decision without any technical infor
mation, said Morgan.
And some in Congress believe that 
the advice from other organizations 
is adequate. It can be difficult to find 
unbiased advice, but [the NAS and 
the GAO] have a good reputation for
Paolo Malabuyo (right) presented the latest Xbox game, Crimson Skies, of which he was the main developer, to students at 
last weeks Microsoft Days event. My job as a game designer is to make the gaming experience fun. If I do not do so, I have 
failed at my job, said Malabuyo, a Carnegie Mellon alumnus (Art 95).  A "<iiJeff Cullers/Photo Editor
cell phone are obvious: for exam
ple, the keypad, LCD display, speak
er, microphone, antenna, and bat
tery.
Even though those technologies 
are essential in making a mobile 
phone work, the real magic lies 
inside, on the circuit board.
The cell phone is really one of the 
most complex devices that youre 
likely to use on a daily basis.
It has analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion chips to 
turn your voice into a digital signal 
and the incoming data into a voice 
you can hear.
It has not one, but two micro
processors.
One is whats known as a digital 
signal processor.
The other is not unlike the micro
processor in your personal comput
er. Its the real brain of the phone, 
responsible for keeping the phone 
in touch with a base station, as well 
as managing the user interface and 
running all of the games and other 
software that many modern phones 
can run.
The phone has several different 
kinds of memory on its board to 
store its operating system as well as
See PHONES, page A5
Courtesy of M. Granger MorganSee CONGRESS, page A5
Students compete in Google programming competition
to receive content dynamically from a 
wide variety of sources we call chan
nels. Currently, we have several 
major content providers with us, such 
as MSN, ESPN, and The Wall Street Journal.
Users can also customize and filter 
what information they receive.
The technology will first be imple
mented in wristwatches. The first 
models are expected to be available 
to consumers this coming winter.
With the SPOT technology, we 
can not only access the traditional 
functions of a watch, but we can also 
receive relevant information, check 
the weather, and receive info updates 
such as the stock market, news, and 
sports scores, said Thompson.
While SPOT allows the watches to 
accept information, the watches 
implementing SPOT technology do 
not emit information themselves. 
SPOT is FM-based, meaning that 
information transferred to users is 
done through FM radio waves, the 
same medium used by radio stations 
to transmit music and content to norCalifornia.
Greg Bednarski, a masters student 
in information security and policy 
management, signed up for the com
petition on a whim.
Bednarski had almost no prior 
programming 
experience. 
[The Code 
Jam] is a good 
way to have fun 
and see what 
Im capable of, 
he said.
First-year engi
neering stun dent SaagarGreg Bednarski , . Patel is also
Code Jam2003
participating in the Code Jam.
He has advanced to the third 
round of competition, making him 
one of the top 250 competitors 
worldwide.
I was looking for some more 
experience, said Patel, who has 
been participating in programming 
competitions for seven years.
The things Ive done back home 
were generally group ventures, and 
independent contests can be com
pletely different, he said.
It feels good to be in the third 
round.... I didnt think Id advance to 
the second, let alone the third, and I 
was quite surprised, said Patel.
Now the challenge is really on, 
though.
If Patel scores in the top ten per
cent in the current round, he will 
become one of 25 national finalists.
The Code Jam is hosted by 
TopCoder, which sponsors a variety 
of competitions in addition to being 
a resource for computer profession
als.
Editors note: Saagar Patel is a junior staffwriter for The Tartan.
by Teh Seng KeatStaffwriter
At last weeks Microsoft Days 
event, the corporation unveiled to 
CMU students a new Xbox game and 
one of its latest technological innova
tions, called Smart Personal Object 
Technology (SPOT).
Basically, what we hope to achieve 
through Microsoft Days is to share 
ome Microsoft goodwill with stu
dents at CMU, and also expose them 
to the latest technological develop
ments that are happening at 
Microsoft, said Microsoft recruiter 
Stacey Stovall, who organized the 
event.
SPOT is Microsofts attempt to 
infuse smart technologies and capa
bilities into items people use every 
day.
SPOT is our first foray into getting 
devices to be smart, said Donald 
Thompson, the software architect 
and head developer of the SPOT pro
ject. Through SPOT, users are able
mal radios, said Thompson. As 
such, SPOT objects can only receive 
information.
The SPOT technology also exten
sively uses the .NET Framework, 
Microsofts major programming 
model for developing, deploying, and 
running Web services and applica
tions.
SPOT was written with a combina
tion of the C, C++, and C# program
ming languages.
Thompson also outlined several 
challenges that the project faced, 
such as the software structure and 
operating system that SPOT should 
use, and issues of limited memory 
and battery power when implement
ing SPOT on watches.
The SPOT presentation was just 
one of many Microsoft technological 
presentations during Microsoft Days. 
Microsoft also unveiled its latest Xbox 
game, Crimson Skies. Paolo 
Malabuyo, a Carnegie Mellon alum 
(Art 95), was the games main develSee MICROSOFT, page A5
by Kevin ChangStaffwriter
One hundred eighty-one Carnegie 
Mellon students have registered for 
the 2003 Google Code Jam, accord
ing to Google spokeswoman Eileen 
Rodriguez.
The Code Jam is a programming 
competition sponsored by the popu
lar search engine Google.
Entrants are competing for a top 
prize of $10,000.
Competitors will progress through 
four stages of play, the last of which 
will be held at Googleplex, Googles 
headquarters in Mountain View,

---------------------------------------------------

118 Meyran Ave
y........ "",i
Siili
Sil
^lM^bi.LVJ IM
around bheQQeearound thecorner
great student fares!
we'll get you there.
IliJiiiiiilll
London.................$349
Paris.......................$405 W* ,
iwlWRio de Janeiro...$643 H t
New York............$209
Chicago................$218
 PEPSI
'
wvw.iwvi
WE'VE BEEN THERE.
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003 A5
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
For more information call 411392.4900 or ivww.pittsbnrgbsymphony.org
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Convenientiy located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(A \ 2) 441 -4444vk tamt rjBWffjj SSSm J? dM* khSm kBm
http://www.shadysideinn.com
internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
PHONES, from page A4
your address book, games, etc.
That compact circuit board also 
houses radio frequency amplifiers 
and other circuitry to manage the 
battery and antenna.
So what about this digital stuff?
In recent years, the major mobile 
phone service providers have gone 
from analog to digital networks to 
accomodate the growing number of 
people using cell phones.
Digital data can be easily com
pressed, so by using digital signals, 
modern cell phones can fit several 
conversations in the same radio 
waves that could transmit one analog 
conversation.
Because modern cell phones can 
compress all this data and then conMaking tech 
decisions
CONGRESS, from page A4
objective input, wrote Senator Jeff 
Bingaman (D-N.M.) in an e-mail to 
The Tartan.
However, a small contingent in 
Congress is committed to developing 
a solution. Possible solutions include 
resurrecting the old OTA under a dif
ferent name or distributing 
Congressional research to a variety of 
different organizations.
Congress faces complex issues 
involving science and technology 
every day and we need better institu
tional arrangements to obtain care
ful, balanced advice on these issues, 
wrote Congressman Amo Houghton 
(R-N.Y.) in a statement this 
September.
Both Morgan and Peha feel that 
input from voters will help spur 
progress towards instituting an advis
ing organization for science and tech
nology.
If members of Congress under
stand that voters care about this, that 
would help a lot, said Peha.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL
burn/siedreweduemu
Friday, October 31,8:00 Ha 
naturday, November 1, 8:00 Ha 
nunday, November 2, 2:30 Ha
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the heart of the Cultural District
Virtuoso Color
Students get a look at new Microsoft toys
MICROSOFT, from page A4
oper.
My job as a game designer is to 
make the gaming experience fun. If I 
do not do so, I have failed at my job, 
said Malabuyo.
Being a game designer means 
being able to transfer your creative
abstract ideas into mechanics and 
reality.
Malabuyo said that his time at 
CMU proved crucial to where he is 
today.
CMLPs productive and intensive 
environment helped train me for the 
pressurized environment of the game 
development industry, he said.
Being educated at CMU was a 
plus, for even though I was an art 
major, I was exposed to various tech
nological developments and prac
tices, due to CMUs technology-inten
sive environment.
His advice for anyone interested in 
the gaming industry: Start making 
games now.
What goes on inside your cell phone
Mellon hMtRd oSteeCOe
Behind The Notes Concert Preview (one hour before the concert): 
Leonardo BaladaA celebration of the life and music of the 
Pittsburgh-based composer.
Series sponsor:@ Mellon
Student ticket sponsor:Weekend Sponsor; m U S AIRWAYS
vert it back again at the other end, 
they need a fair amount of processing 
power.
Once the data composing your con
versation is compressed, there are a 
couple different ways to transmit it.
One approach is for your conversa
tion to use a given radio frequency 
one-third of the time, since it can be 
compressed to less than one-third its 
actual size in digital form.
Your phone actually waits several 
milliseconds to transmit a six-mil
lisecond chunk of your conversation 
over a time of only two milliseconds. 
You dont notice any delay, though, 
because it all happens every six mil
liseconds.
The other approach is whats 
referred to as spread spectrum tech
nology. What that means is that each
snippet of your conversation is trans
mitted with a unique code identifying 
the data as yours. Then each little 
chunk can be broadcast on any fre
quency that happens to be available 
at that moment. Computers at the 
base station reassemble your data 
into a conversation and send it on its 
way.
Hopefully, you now have a reason
able idea of how cell phones work 
their magic. I skimmed over a lot 
because theres so much going on 
inside your phone  and I know 
youre dying to get through this 
newspaper and check your voice 
mail.
If you want to know more about 
cellular phone technologies, I highly 
recommend  what else?  the 
Internet.
U'll
Hans Graf, conductor  Sarah Chang, violin 
BALADA: Symphony No. 5, "American" (world premiere) 
BEETHOVEN: Romance No. 2  DV0RK: Romance in F minor 
MENDELSSOHN: Symphony No. 3, "Scottish"
The capitivating Sarah Chang performs soulful romances for violin 
and orchestra. For a colorful contrast, Pittsburgh composer Leonardo 
Balada offers his blend of folklore and craftsmanship. (Enjoy a special 
demonstration of how technology is used to enhance this piece.)
Fare is round trip from Pittsburgh. Subject to change and availability. Tax not included. Restrictions and blackouts apply.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
THE TARTAN27 October 2003
Cohon passes on Penns invitation; 
kudos to Cohon, our glorious leader
divorced from a need for recognition.
The list of improvements that have 
occurred under his leadership includes an 
increase in the number of women enrolled 
in the School of Computer Science from 8 
percent of the first-year class to 40 percent, 
and the increase of the School of Computer 
Sciences budget to over $100 million.
Although these accomplishments were 
achieved with the help of Dean James 
Morris, the role of any universitys president 
is undoubtedly present in the securing of 
funds for the school which he oversees.
Cohon sees a bright future for our school, 
and that is why he is staying. The lure of 
cold, hard cash is not enough to pull him 
away from something with as much poten
tial as the academic community at Carnegie 
Mellon, regardless of the University of 
Pennsylvanias reputation or involvement in 
Cohons history. That Cohon sticks to his 
commitment to the University is a promising 
sign that he will serve CMU well in the 
future.
Recently approved to serve the rest of his 
five-year term in May, the Board of Trustees 
and the Faculty Senate have faith in him and 
have deemed him a worthy leader of our 
ambitious institution. We hope that presi
dent Cohon will continue to do what he has 
done for Carnegie Mellon University so far 
in paving our road to a higher level of high
er education.
Normally, when someone is offered a job 
with better pay, better benefits, and more 
prominence, its a day for celebration. To 
question the acceptance of that position is to 
invite examination of ones sanity.
However, University President Jared 
Cohon did not think so when the prestigious 
University of Pennsylvania placed him at the 
top of their list of candidates in their search 
to replace current UPenn President Judith 
Rodin, who will retire next summer. He was 
a shoe-in for the job, being the only sitting 
university president who is also a UPenn 
graduate.
Some may think Cohons leaving would 
not affect the University greatly, but he 
should be commended for passing up the 
offer, which would have nearly doubled his 
pay and benefits to about $580,357, the 
highest in the nation for the head of a uni' versity.
The Presidential Assessment Committees 
report on Cohons performance relates his 
1 desire not to receive credit for many of his 
! contributions to the University.
, President Cohon isnt the most prominent 
administrator on campus; much of the work 
he does is behind the scenes, and he prefers 
not to make a big deal about his successes. 
We should not devalue the man because his 
modesty prevents him from lauding himself 
 with pageantry and pomp; we should cele?.brate that his devotion to his work is
Bum Lee/Art Editor
Jw9Iu8onmtu ,uw awon. as lwi umo2fmA
York Times, remarked, The CAT scans indi
cate a massive shrinkage of her brain, with 
its higher centers completely destroyed, 
which indicates irreversibility. The 
Schindlers have taken their case to the 
courts repeatedly, losing at the same rate at 
which their cases pop up.
Even after the legal system denied their 
claims, on basis of logic and legal principle, 
the Schindlers finally secured some help. 
This intervention came from Florida politi
cians, possibly seeking a soapbox to speak 
from, as they rashly passed a law that led to 
an executive order signed by the governor 
to reinsert the tube.
The consequences of this ethical dilemma 
are farther reaching than the medical com
munity. The ACLU has decided to step in, 
saying that they will aid Michael Schiavo in 
his fight against the executive and legisla
tive branches of the Florida government. As 
much as it pains me, I have to side with the 
ACLU in this particular case.
Former Florida Supreme Court Justice 
Gerald Kogan remarked, This particular 
administration has not yet understood why 
we have separation of powers. As many 
constitutionalists would agree upon, the 
actions of the Florida legislative branch are 
a direct attack on the theory of government 
this country was founded upon. The reper
cussions here come from a war brewing 
between the judicial and legislative and 
executive branches of government. When 
the balance of power is swayed by emotion, 
media attention, and vote pandering, you 
can be sure that the intentions of the found
ing fathers are being subverted.
ing the case, and in turn Mrs. Schiavos 
future. According to many lawyers dealing 
in cases of biomedical ethics, Florida law 
makes it clear that in the absence of a living 
will or other forms of written instruction, a 
spouses opinion on what steps a mate 
would want taken to prolong his or her life 
take precedence over what the parents 
wish. The courts are far more appropriately 
skilled to determine a case of this nature 
than a group of elected officials.
Vote-pandering politicians should not be 
involved in decisions typically undertaken 
by courts. The politics of life and death are 
not best debated and acted upon by politi
cians seeking a stage for reelection. Here, 
the Florida legislature has essentially made 
a law to overturn a court ruling, an action 
prohibited by both the U.S. and Florida con
stitutions. It is bad enough that the families 
without legal backing have taken the matter 
to the press, causing a national debate to 
erupt over the issue.
To give some more background, Terri has 
been in a vegetative state since 1990. 
Multiple members of the medical communi
ty state that Mrs. Schiavos condition will 
not improve. Combined with legal prece
dent, there is no reason for the Florida leg
islature to step in: the courts were, and are, 
quite capable of handling it.
The reason the politicians have gotten 
involved is public relations value and the 
emotional stakes involved, and the pleas 
from Marys family. Bob and Mary Schindler 
want to keep her alive. They wish to take 
custody of their daughter so they can seek 
therapy and treatment for her, even against 
the opinions of the doctors appointed by the 
court to determine her abilities. Dr. Ron 
Cranford, when recently quoted in the New
Watch out, kids: the new SAT could 
dumb down CMUs newest students
Ben Hackett
The medical ethics issue of euthanasia 
has had a few new wrinkles thrown into the 
debate. Terri Schiavo, a Florida woman 
whose husband wanted to take her off life 
support and did remove the feeding tube 
keeping her alive, had her feeding tube 
reinserted because of an order from Florida 
Governor Jeb Bush.
The action giving the governor this power 
by the Florida legislature throws a new 
political wrench into the already complex 
system of medical ethics surrounding the 
termination of persons in a vegetative state. 
As a conservative, I am surprised at the 
actions of Bush. Typically, limiting govern
ment involvement in personal affairs is the 
creed of basic conservative thought.
Schiavos husband, Michael, wanted her 
feeding tube removed, stating that Terri 
would have requested to do so, if she were 
cognizant or had written a living will before 
going into her vegetative state. Terris fami
ly argued on her behalf, lobbying desperate
ly for someone to step in and force the hos
pital to reinsert the feeding tube. Thus, the 
Florida legislature passed a bill giving 
Governor Bush the power to direct the hos
pital to reinsert her feeding tube.
The problem here is greater than just the 
medical ethics question raised in any case of 
potential euthanasia. The problem here is a 
violation of the balance of power between 
the branches of government and a potential 
conflict with the Constitution.
The Florida court system should be decidthan enforce a solid, broad curriculum; 
rather than read and analyze The Canterbury Tales or Heart of Darkness, stu
dents will likely learn from page after page 
of short essay questions, isolated and testspecific chunks of information that offer no 
insight into tradition or real-world con
cerns.
High school seniors, then, are short
changed. Their critical thinking skills may 
atrophy as they learn how to answer nar
rowly focused essay questions, and only to 
earn a numerical score that will likely not be 
a spot-on predictor of their intelligence or 
potential for collegiate success. The College 
Board estimates that the standard deviation 
of error will be upwards of 40 points on the 
800-point-per-section scale.
University admissions departments bear 
the burden of making sense of this new 
grade, judging it against its considerable 
margin of error. What, then, is to be expect
ed from upcoming orientation classes, and 
how will this affect selectivity?
According to a recent edition of Atlantic Monthly, Carnegie Mellon students have 
median SAT scores between 1270 and 1470, 
and the University has a 38 percent accep
tance rate, a number already disproportion
ately high among comparable universities 
like Tufts (27 percent).
Will selectivity fall even more as officials 
strive to compensate for possible biases in 
SAT grading, and if so, does that accurately 
reflect that ability of the Universitys chang
ing constituency?
Certainly, the pending SAT changes are 
well-intentioned, designed to more fully 
assess students verbal ability; but the risks 
run higher than the College Board might 
like to think, and the American education 
system will soon be running to catch this 
new curveball.
Scheduled for a March 2005 debut, the 
new SAT is not yet set in stone, and even 
future graders are only vaguely familiar 
with the revamped structure.
Before planning on the new SATs launch, 
though, and putting faith in an intrinsically 
subjective test to dictate universities new 
classes of first-year students, the College 
Board should consider that they might be 
trying to fix something that isnt necessarily 
broken.
For many of us, the SATs are a part of the 
distant past, but imminent changes in the 
decades-old test have brought it back into 
public debate.
A recent Time article unveiled the College 
Boards plans to eliminate analogies and 
comparative math problems and to intro
duce short essay questions into a new writ
ing section, 
o As members of an academic community, 
Carnegie Mellon students should worry that
0 in addition to endangering the supposed 
objectivity in grading, the revised SAT will 
inevitably water down the high school cur
ricula and therefore change the makeup of 
new first-year classes.
Though much debated for alleged socioe
conomic and racial biases, the SATs have 
long been the closest thing to an objective 
, measure of aptitude that college admissions 
personnel have to look at.
1 Multiple-choice questions, including the 
 infamous analogy (puppies are to dogs as 
kittens are to cats), guaranteed a single 
correct answer; students either got them
" right or wrong. With the addition of a writ
ing section, which will raise a perfect score 
from a 1600 to a 2400, the guise of impartial 
grading dissolves.
Though the College Board stresses that 
essay graders will be directed what to look 
for in answers, their stylistic preferences 
will inevitably be at play, and scores are sure 
. to be inconsistent across the board.
Certainly, writing is an essential skill for 
an incoming college student, but there are 
> ways  the SAT II writing test, Advanced 
Placement exams, and personal statements 
 for colleges to gauge students ability on 
an independent basis. It is unrealistic and 
unfair to impose standards on a practice 
that is so inherently subjective and individ
ual.
Basic prejudices aside, the SATs new 
emphasis on writing carries the same threat 
as the state-administered Comprehensive 
Assessment Tests (CATs) that came before 
it. In states in which CATs are given to ele^mentary through high school students, 
teachers have been pressured to gear their 
lessons toward test training in an effort to 
boost their schools ratings.
The new SAT is bound to follow suit, and 
t teachers will emphasize test skills rather
Ben Hackett (T>hackett@9 welcomes all responsible replies to his article.
tow tech talk fails to foil spammers
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON Editor-in-Chief
Bum Lee/Art Editor
sweeping anti-pornography controls, and shore companies continuing to send unsodomain-wide opt-out of commercial e-mail, licited commercial e-mail ad nauseam. Add
While initially appealing, the flaws are to this the fact that spammers often use
quick to come out. Enforcing such a law will rapidly rotating e-mail relays that are virtuprove to be nigh impossible, with so many ally untraceable. Unless the government
loopholes allowing companies an easy way has true desires to become Big Brother, anyout. body that actually thinks this bill could be
Consider the enforcement quagmire surreasonably enforced needs a refresher in
rounding a similar law, the Digital how the Internet works.
Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA. The All enforceability questions aside, the
law has no efficacy overseas, and it has been potential for abuse is truly appalling. At
unable to stop several international violasome point, it will be necessary to define
tors. Sharman Networks, incorporated in what is and what isnt unsolicited commertiny Vanuatu and run from Australia, concial e-mail. Obviously, offers asking me to
tinues to distribute its DMCA-violating join millions of other Americans who are
KaZaA Media Desktop. Similarly, the enlarging their penises fall into the categoAttorney General had to lie in wait until ry of what needs to be regulated. But what
Russian programmer Dmitry Sklyarov visitnext? Will the numerous groups on campus
ed the U.S. to arrest him under the terms of who use mass e-mail to promote their
the DMCA. (Sklyarov had written software events be sued and have their officers sent
capable of converting Adobes secure eBook to jail by every resentful student who cant
format to the open PDF format; while this find any way to get a life?
software opened up the world of eBooks to Another problem: the proposed law convisually-impaired users, it violated Adobes tains only provisions for individuals who
copyright in the U.S.) have explicitly opted out of e-mails. This
This new anti-spam bill will encounter -------------------------------------------
the same problems as the DMCA, with offSee SPAM, page A8
L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager 
JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor 
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
! Its like a festering wound plaguing the 
computer users of the world. Anybody that 
has ever had an e-mail address has had to 
deal with unsolicited commercial e-mail, or 
spam. The more you use e-mail, the more 
spam you get. Theres not a whole lot that 
can be done.
That is, unless youre the United States 
Senate.
Last Wednesday, the Senate unanimously 
voted to approve S.877, a new anti-spam bill 
with drastic powers to control how Internet 
users send e-mail. Its provisions are shock
ing: a new Do Not E-Mail list provided by 
the Federal Trade Commission to go along 
with its Do Not Call list, prohibition of 
deceptive subject lines, and requirements 
of tagging any advertisement e-mail as 
such, to name a few. Various amendments 
include jail sentences for e-mailers who 
hack into other computers to send spam,
EDITORIAL STAFF
CELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor 
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
BARY DUNN, Sports Editor*
NEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
J.T. TROLLMAN, Asst. Photo Editor 
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt
 *r* Denotes acting position

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003
Murder is murder: dont let the jargon distract youTHE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon 's Student Newspaper Since Igo6
Logan Smith
First-year
Business Administration and Economics
$300,000 isnt a whole lot compared 
to what he is already making.
Rob Flanigan
Junior at UPenn 
International Relations
Between the crime and the corrup
tion going on in the administration 
office, he would probably prefer to stay 
here.
Paul Lindquest
First-year
Drama
I guess he didnt want to be an ivy 
League bastard.
Rlshabh Aragwal
First-year
Mechanical Engineering 
God help Penn.
Charlie Wright
Sophomore
Art
 Cause he loves us.
As an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania and a current university 
President, Jared Cohon was approached by Penn to be a candidate for its presi
dency, so we ask:
Why didnt President Cohon want the job?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled and photos by Veronique Lee
/cIy2~
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITE RS 
Adam Atkinson, Tim Bowen, Dan 
Ceppos, Kevin Chang, Jeannie Choi, Joe 
Elliott, Adam Greenberg, Ben Hackett, 
Colin Holloway, Teh Seng Keat, Molly 
McAshan, Laura Palotie, Rachel 
Papernick, Matt Rado, Brenda Reyes, 
Lauren Sauer, Anubhav Nikhil Sinha, 
Caleb Stright, Evan Sundwick, James 
Tetlow, Katherine Thompson, Preston 
Treichel, Cecilia Westbrook, Dinah 
Winnick, Hannah Yi
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, 
Jennifer Keinard, John Kim, Bridget 
Lewis, Grace Li, Elizabeth Levin, Julie 
Qiu, Vanessa Shyu
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, Nick 
Marino, Scott Niekum, Eli Pousson, 
Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, Ed Ryan, 
Geoffrey Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan, 
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Orathai Sukwong, 
David Rush, Mark Rau, Kathy Saye, 
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Helen 
Gruner, Adina Klein, Arthur ODwyer, 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, Jennifer 
Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi Woo, Mike 
Yang, Ranie YouDogma, the state, and the sacrifice of civil rights
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Chris Casinghino, Erin 
Danehy, Ryan Faught, Steven Goldberg, 
James Hart, Kirk Higgins, Matthew 
Hornyak, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, 
Christina Kung, Rebecca Lee, Jonathan 
Mendelson, Matt Meurer, Will Minton, 
Stephanie Natale, Janet Park, Saagar 
Patel, Susan Peich, Michael Preysman, 
Jairan Sadeghi, Christina Shin, Lucas 
Yiannatji
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2002 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew. emu. edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
James Auwaerter
Andrew Johnson
Somehow, in a government ruled by reason, religion is coming 
to play an ever-increasing role in ruling a secular nation. The 
president has promised to approve, and both the House and the 
Senate have passed, a ban on abortion that measures the moral
ity of abortion on a very crude ruler. Soon, doctors will be arrest
ed and tossed in jail for helping a woman, or a couple, get rid of 
a baby.Roe v. Wade set a dangerous precedent in America in trying to 
compromise with the largely-Christian conservatives who 
decried abortion as inhuman. Roe v. Wade took into account the 
human rights of a fetus, yet improperly applied the concept or 
failed to measure it against more pressing issues.
The partial-birth abortion ban takes advantage of this original 
poor precedent. Now, women who want abortions  and I wont 
use the rhetoric of the horrific here  face a shortened time span 
in which to have one performed, but worse, face even more over
sight from Big Brother, for no logical reason.
Christianity is not sufficient reason to allow my neighbors to 
deprive me of a right that does not affect them. Laws are sup
posed to govern humanity, not to make sure neighbor approves 
of neighbor, but to ensure the greater good for a nation. 
Jefferson said in the Declaration of Independence, We hold 
these truths to be self-evident, emphasizing the relative nature 
of values by annunciating it. If we consider the greater good, 
then we should look to the birth rate for one. In a world teeming 
with people, and with consumption-frenzied Americans, we 
should preserve the mental, physical, and economic health of 
the people whose human rights we need not try and measure, 
because they live and interact. Even if we consider only babies, 
we can view them as two groups, a population of babies who are 
born and those babies still within their mothers wombs. Then 
whose and which rights do we consider? The greater good of the 
thousands of babies born every day seems heftier than the hardto-define good of unborn babies. We cannot even say we do a 
baby a favor bringing it into a world impoverished or handi
capped. We can say that we take away from other infants and 
people in doing so.
We should not consider the right to life of the enwombed 
babies whose rights rest on the razors edge of the populations 
morality. We should consider the right to liberty and the pursuit 
of happiness of born babies, and living humans, whose identities 
make up America. We can ensure a happier population of born 
babies by allowing the decision not to raise babies that are unfea
sible for economic or any other reasons. Rather than a Solomons 
compromise on an issue that is clearly not one on which the pro
life and pro-abortion advocates can agree, we must allow people 
to guide their own lives. The matter is not just the often-cited 
womans right to choose, but rather the right to have any choice 
when the decision does not impinge on the rights of other citi
zens. We can decide to limit abortions based on one measure, the 
danger to the woman who bears the baby. This is the only metric 
on which we can clearly see the tick marks, because the others 
are obscured by conflicting rights, and even modern technology.
We can, after all, save babies that have been in the womb just 
three months. Should law now be changed to limit abortions to 
the earliest stages of pregnancy since babies can survive at this 
point?
Medical science has even brought us other wonderful mira
cles, including the ability to divest a woman of a baby that is
On October 21, the United States Senate voted 64-34 to crim
inalize a method of performing abortions known as partial-birth 
abortions. The House of Representatives had already passed a 
similar bill with a vote of 281-142, and President Bush has said 
that he will sign it.
There are three things to look at when Congress makes a law. 
First, is the law constitutional? Second, is the law needed? Third, 
is the law appropriate? The Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 
2003 (PBABA) is all of these.
According to the Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade, the 
State has no right to regulate abortions in the first trimester, may 
regulate abortion in ways reasonably related to maternal 
health in the second trimester, and is even allowed to proscribe 
abortion in the third trimester, except when needed for preser
vation of the life or health of the mother. The bill specifically 
allows partial-birth abortion if needed to preserve the mothers 
life, and Senator Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), the chief sponsor of the 
bill, said that the findings that went with it prove that it is never 
needed to protect a womans health.
The PBABA defines a partial-birth abortion as any abortion 
that delivers a child partway, and then performs an overt act, 
other than completion of delivery, in order to kill the child. This 
is well within the limits imposed by Roe v. Wade; the court specif
ically said the decision did not challenge a part of the Texas code 
that had a minimum 5-year sentence for killing a child in the act 
of being born. The penalty then could go up to life in prison, a far 
cry from the maximum two-year sentence currently allowed by 
the bill just passed.
So, we see that the concept of outlawing the killing of babies 
while they are being born was validated by the Supreme Court. 
By definition, a bill that echoes a Supreme Court decision is con
stitutional. Now, is it appropriate?
In particular, the bill was designed to ban a method known as 
intact dilation and extraction (D&E). Intact dilation and extrac
tion was first described in 1992 by Dr. Martin Haskell. He 
described it as being useful later in the second trimester when 
classic dilation and extraction cannot be used, due to toughening 
of the fetuss tissues.
You see, classic dilation and extraction involves tearing apart 
the fetus within the womb. An article on Salon.com details how 
a surgeon has to reach in with a set of Bierer forceps and pull out 
organs one at a time  a leg, then an arm, then the liver 
Staff
clearly worse off than a baby born to a woman who welcomes 
the experience. When the time comes to buy my groceries in the 
store, Ill gladly let the Jews buy their kosher foods, and Ill take 
it as courtesy if they leave me to buy my unsanctified grub. And 
when the Muslims prostrate themselves to the east, Ill walk by 
without a word. When the Christians send me pamphlets and 
approach me to argue, Ill gladly accept their right to free speech. 
Our faiths and ideas should not rub against each other until they 
grind out the meaning of each. Our society exists for safety, and 
to foster a dialogue such that we can release whichever personal 
dogmas we embrace, and embrace the ideas that we find sacred.
Andrew Johnson (johnson3@J is the editor-in-chief of The Tartan. He thinks Bush should have taken a lead from his predecessor and vetoed the bill. After all, Clinton got two terms, but will King George?
[ending with] the collapse of the skull and the removal of the 
brain matter.
Intact dilation and extraction instead has the surgeon reach in, 
pull out the baby by a foot or leg, cut a hole through its skull with 
a pair of sharp scissors, and use a suction device to remove any 
brain matter. It, then, is seen as less cruel, and less likely to injure 
the erstwhile mother by perforating her uterus (something that 
every doctor who performs abortions has done). This is less cruel 
in the same way that clubbing a seal to death is less cruel than 
feeding it into a meat grinder while its still alive.
Allowing this sort of procedure devalues human life. Weve 
seen this in the years since Roe v. Wade  in 1997, the New York Times printed an article by MIT professor Steven Pinker. His arti
cle expressed support for infanticide, seeing in it little difference 
from abortion, writing To a biologist, birth is as arbitrary a mile
stone as any other.... The right to life must come, the moral 
philosophers say, from morally significant traits that we human?
happen to possess. What are examples of morally significant 
traits? The abilities to ... [form] plans for the future, to dread 
death [sic] and to express the choice not to die. Until then, 
theyre fair game.
Preventing abortions like this from being performed is cer
tainly appropriate. The saddest part of this story is that the law 
is needed. While the number of D&E abortions is only a small 
percentage of those performed, even one is too many. Maybe one 
day, laws like this wont be needed. Until that day, we have this 
ban to deter people from treating infants like unimportant lumps 
of flesh. Congress has acted responsibly in passing a bill that pro
tects unborn children from brutalities, and I commend them for 
it.
James Auwaerter ('sensei@cmu.edi0 is the copy manager of The Tartan. He was nearly strangled at birth by his own umbilical cord. He was purple then, but now welcomes all responsible replies.

---------------------------------------------------

ALLEN B<
BY ALLEN SCHWARTZ
paperdenim&cloth
C V C T C II GO T O I t m O
Of the over 2.3 million women who 
reported sexual assaults in the 
United States from 1973-1987, 71% 
of the victims avoided being raped 
by taking self-protective measures.
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003
Why is it so hard for a 30-year-old
to think about retirement? when youre young, retirement
planning is pretty far down on your list of concerns. Say, somewhere between the 
melting polar ice caps and dishpan hands. And thats completely understandable. 
But by planning early and sticking to that plan, you can increase the money you'll 
have to enjoy retirement, and potentially decrease the years youll spend working. 
We offer a range of different options, including tax-deferred retirement plans, 
SRAs, and IRAs, all with low expenses. Now that's something to fall in love with.
Log on for ideas, advice, and results. TIAA-CREF.org or call (800) 842-2776
Managing money for people
with other things to think about.'
RETIREMENT I INSURANCE I MUTUAL FUNDS I COLLEGE SAVINGS I TRUSTS I INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
TIAA-CREF Individual anti Institutional Services. Inc., and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc., distribute securities 
products. 2002 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-Coliege Retirement Equities fund (TIAA-CREF). New York, NY.
J-A8.i------------------------------------------------------,i
| Spammers 
ij lose Senate
I
in loopholes
j SPAM, from page A6
! means that if a company does decide 
to follow all of the provisions out, lined, they are free to spam at will.
Clearly, between loopholes and 
; technicalities, any law designed to 
; prevent spam is doomed to fail. We 
should therefore pursue other solu
tions to deal with this onslaught in a 
more effective way.
Spam filters have become much, 
much more effective in recent times 
as the spam problem has gotten 
: worse. For users of the Universitys 
I Cyrus mail system, Computing 
Services offers the SpamAssassin fil' tering service, which, if set up cor; rectly, can be very good at getting rid 
of spam. It can be set up through the 
My Andrew website
(http://www.cmu.edu/myandrew/).
On the local side, e-mail programs 
such as Mozilla Thunderbird and 
Apple Mail have effective spam-filter
ing built in. SpamBayes 
! (http://spambayes.sourceforge. net) 
j provides a plug-in for use with 
| Microsoft Outlook. Mulberry users,
 unfortunately, are out of luck in this 
area, but the aforementioned 
SpamAssassin service still provides 
some help.
Even as much as the Internet would 
be a better place were all spam to 
cease, the idea of passing legislation 
to curb this is a waste of time. While 
Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) 
remarked that the ... odds of defeat
ing spam by legislation alone is 
extremely low, but that does not 
mean we should stand idly by and do 
nothing about it, what he doesnt 
realize is that this bill represents 
nothing more than a valiant try, 
doomed from the start.
Let us innovate our way past this 
problem, making spam technically 
unfeasible, rather than just trying to 
send some harsh words in the general 
direction of the problem and hoping 
! for a magical silver bullet, 
i After all, I still like to think that its 
: possible that I can get a share if I help 
| the widow of some deposed African 
| leader move forty million dollars to 
! another country, 
i
Jim Puls (jpuls@J is The Tartans I Production and Systems Manager. He double-dog-dares you to try and spam him.
To register, email University Police at rad-pd@andrew.cmu.edu.
HUMANITIES 
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
u Carnejjfe Mrikii m
RAD Instructors;
Attention 
Writers!
Looking for an internship?
Beginning in Spring 2004, The Tartan will 
offer an internship opportunity in conjunction 
with the English Department in the College 
of Humanities & Social Sciences.
The internship is worth 9 units and is open 
to any student who has taken 76-372 
(Contemporary Journalism) or has spent at 
least one semester as a Tartan Staffwriter.
For more information, contact 
managingeditor@thetartan.org or stop by 
the newsroom, University Center 314.
THE TARTAN 
Reasons Why You Should 
Take the R.A.D. Course
1 ....................................................................,........................
According to the American Medical 
Association, 1 out of every 4 
college-age women is a victim of 
rape (2000).
Wednesday October 
6pm-10pm 
Saturday November 
8am-4pm 
classes held in OSC 201
According to the Dept, of Justice,1. 
7% of U.S. college women were 
raped during the 1996-97 school 
year, and another 1.1% were victims 
of attempted rape (Dec. 2000).
29
1

---------------------------------------------------

P T I C A
(412) 521-2100
5831 Forbes Avenue - Squirrel Hill

---------------------------------------------------

AioTHE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAYSATURDAY SUNDAY
MChamptonsWps:: Unjvetsy of Chicago T9A j
Univserity 1:30 PM
New York University 8:00 PM
3-00 PM
New York University 5:30 PMUnivserity 11:00 AM
Clarion University of Pennsylvania 1:00 PM
Original Hot Dog Shop
3901 Forbes Ave.  Oakland
Try STACKERS Bar/Nightclub 
1825 East Carson St. 
South Side
ive band friday and 
Saturday nights3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621-2200  www.residenceinn.com/pitro
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest feel welcome.
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
r ..................................... ......................................... ....Its time to get your flu shot.
Student Health Services will be 
offering flu shots for $15.00.
at Student Health Services:
in More wood Gardens E-Tower, 1st floor
Wednesday, October 29 
1 pm - 4 pm 
Friday, November 14
9 am -1 pm
at the Benefits & Fitness Fair:
in UC Rangos; Human Resources will cover 
the cost for faculty and staff who get their 
shots here.
Wednesday, November 5
10 am-4 pm
IM
NEWS
Administration
Director: Mike Mastoianni x8-2214 
or mma8
Asst. Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214 or immike
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 or kiryk
Womens President: Karoline Evans koe
Vice President: Shawn Quinn squinn 
Important Dates
Wednesday October 29  IM Board 
Meeting in the Gym Conference 
Room at 11:45 am.
Monday November 3  Volleyball
playoffs start.
Sports in Season
Tennis  The playoffs started last 
week. The finals will be held tonight 
and tomorrow at the University 
Courts, weather permitting.
Water Polo  Games are being 
played at the UC Pool. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. Games are 
played Monday and Wednesday 
nights at the UC Pool. Please remem
ber to follow the lifeguards instruc
tions.
Bowling  The regular season 
ended yesterday. The playoffs will be 
November 9 at the PAA. Check the 
IM Office on Wednesday for playoff 
brackets.
Chess  Playoffs start this week. 
Brackets are available in the IM 
Office at noon on Tuesday.
Volleyball  The regular season 
ends this week. The playoffs will 
start Monday November 3. Brackets 
will be available at noon on Friday. >
)
Racquetball  The season has start
ed at the UC Courts. Matches are 2 
singles and one doubles. Schedule^ 
are available at the IM Office.
Soccer  The season has started. 
Games are scheduled Monday 
through Thursday nights and 
Sunday afternoons at both the 
Stadium and IM fields. In the evenf 
of rain, stay off the fields. Also stay 
off the fields during varsity prac
tices.
Darts, Team Call Pool, Doubles Table 
Tennis, Foosball - The schedules ai;e 
out and available at the IM Office. 
Please play all matches as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM Office.
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens)
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) 
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius)
Secure Indoor Garage
24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail 
Indoor Pool and Whirlpool 
Fitness Center
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
the Original Hot Dog Shop:
is known for its quality of foods
delivers a full menu to the entire Carnegie Mellon campus
has its delivery service open from 11am to 2am
,4r"
has no service charge
can be reached at 412-687-8327 
accepts CampusXpress funds
Women second in UAA: best ranking ever
ETHNICDirUTCImuri i
ethnicrightsamendment.org
*sr
 JResidence
Inn 
r~7Warriotr
by Bary DunnSports Editor
The womens soccer team, which 
has produced a 9-1-3 (2-1-1) record 
thus far, is currently tied for second 
place in the UAA  the highest rank
ing the team has ever acquired.
The teams most recent win came 
against La Roche College last 
Wednesday when they defeated the 
Redhawks atop the huge hill where 
La Roches field is located. Amidst the 
freezing, windy conditions that 
plagued both teams early in the 
game, the Tartans blanked La Roche 
3-0.
Both teams left the field at halftime without having scored a goal, as 
the first 45 minutes of this battle 
were evenly played. First-year mid
fielder Lisa Pascoli broke through the 
ice 10 minutes into the second half 
with a corner kick goal. That her goal 
was kicked directly into the net, with
out interference from a teammate, is 
quite rare in soccer  nonetheless, it 
put the Tartans on the board and 
gave them a lead of which they would 
not be robbed throughout the 
remainder of the contest.
It was kinda cool, said Pascoli, 
who only takes corner kicks when 
sophomore midfielder Jillian 
Erickson is off the field.
In similar fashion, Pascoli sent the 
next two corner kicks toward the net, 
only these two were headed in by 
sophomore forward Julie Richter and 
first-year back Andrea Maresca. 
Hence, the Tartans scored three goals 
on three consecutive corner kicks in 
about a five-minute span.
toubteYour Study Abroad to DOUblO Y OUT
mploymentOpportunities info kitEmployment Opportunities
To get a FREE info kit 
e-mail us: Free//o@Abroad//7Russia,com 
or call us Toll Free: 1-866-889-9880
We work a lot on corner kicks, 
said head coach Heather Kendra, 
and we havent been too successful. 
The Tartans stopped La Roche 
defensively, to say the very least, as 
the Redstorm were held to only one 
shot on goal throughout the entire 
match. Over the past two weeks, we 
have made a lot of progress, said 
Kendra. We have maintained our 
attack and our defense, and our goal 
is to continue that high level of inten
sity throughout the remainder of the 
season.
What makes this young Tartan 
team, which starts five sophomores 
and three first-years, so special is 
their team-oriented approach.
We have relied heavily in the past 
on one or two players, said Kendra. 
This year its really a team effort, 
which is one of the reasons why weve 
been so successful to this point.
A large part of the Tartans success 
this season as well can be attributed 
to junior goalkeeper Megan Monroe. 
The close games in which the Tartans
have played this season have ofYen 
ended in their favor, primarily du^to 
the numerous,saves that Monroe has 
registered down the stretch.
The Tartans are currently in the 
middle of a 10 day off-period' in 
between games, during which they 
will prepare themselves.
Weve had the best luck when We 
just focus on us, said Kendra. The 
best preparation is when we play our 
game  when we dont change our 
game plan.
Pascoli likewise has the same 
intentions for practice this week.
We will still have normal practices 
and get ready, said Pascoli. We 
need to work on preparing our own 
game.
With this concept in mind, the 
Tartans hope to force their opponents 
to adjust to their game plan, which 
has proved to be successful through
out the season.
The Tartans will host New York 
University Friday night at 8 pm, and 
Brandeis on Sunday at 1:30 pm.
Carnegie Mellon
irmi If II Ik lb  I#
October 27 MONDAYOctober 28 October 29 October 30 October 31 November 1 November 2 November* 3
UfflvecsJty.arn Cnic,:^.12:00 PM
ElllS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 27, 2003Ail
Present this coupon 
your nearest RACK ROOM 
:>ng with your coliege ID to
total Rack Room purchase 
 total Rack Room purchase
PSqqdwswtC y,laoCY
MOVtt
MtCHT
$35 COMPLETE DENTAL EXAM
Includes Gum Evaluation, Bitewing 
X-Rays, Complete Examination, and 
Treatment Consultation 
(New Patients Only, - $135 value)
>FREE<
Israeeali
>FREE<
POPCORN
(412) 281-3130
Must be 18 or older 
with proper ID
AT STATION SQUARE
STARTING SUNDAY. Oct.26
Vmmtu m2wl on ZEMG 2e 
TH|S WEEK. 
"ANIMAL HOUSE"
Plus > Live Stand-up and a short film <
how will you spend it?
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
I ^
I <&s) 
I &A) 
I
i. mm .
[PCOLl
SAVE $5 off your 
SAVE $10 off your
Boln
iive
A$H
of $25 OR MORE 
of $50 OR MORE 
NO EXCLUSIONS
One coupon per purchase, only original coupon is valid, no duplications. Not redeemable 
for cash. Must present college I.D. along with coupon at time of purchase. Expires 11/15/03.
........awBwwSwSspw...................................................mlmmm mmm mmmm
check out additional styles and store locations at
rackroomshoes.comExcitement & Trouble of fairglory of MLB weather fans
BASEBALL, from page A12i ~ ;_________________________I/
Jason Giambi, Gary Sheffield, and Derek Jeter, who, at 
age 29, set the record for most postseason hits, and was 
just brilliant in every game that he played.
The pitchers, as well, played a large part in making 
these playoffs so spectacular. Some of the great pitchers 
of the past decade were present in this years playoffs
 Roger Clemens, who played in his last season as a 
major leaguer, Pedro Martinez, who was superb in the
! games that he started for the Sox this October, the infa! mous pitching staffs of Atlanta and Oakland, who evi
dently disappointed their fans with opening series loss
es to the Cubs and Red Sox, respectively, and of course, 
newfound hero Josh Beckett.
The match-ups this season were also striking, regard
less of whom you were rooting for. It didnt take an 
average baseball fan to tune into the seven games of 
excitement that the Yankees and Red Sox presented in 
the American League Championship Series. With the 
New York-Boston rivalry having existed just about as 
1 long as baseball has, we knew we were in for a treat. I 
' cant imagine a more desirable series-ending scenario 
 than a walk-off home run like Aaron Boones in the bot
tom of the eleventh inning against a knuckler-gone-lobber like Tim Wakefield.
Boones homer wasnt the only of such extra inning 
nature. In game three of the division series between the 
Red Sox and Athletics, Trot Nixon hit a home run in the 
bottom of the eleventh in what was the first of four 
straight wins for Boston. In the first game of the 
National League Championship Series between the 
Marlins and Cubs, Florida pinch-hitter Mike Lowell took 
One over the fence in the top of the eleventh that result
ed in an opening game win for the Marlins.
And lastly, what was perhaps the most memorable 
home run of the 2003 playoffs to non-Yankee fans was 
Alex Gonzalezs home run in the bottom of the twelfth 
inning in game four of the World Series. Gonzalezs 
homer, a line drive over the left field fence quite similar 
to Mark McGwires record breaking 62nd home run in 
1998, resulted in the first of three games in a row that 
the Marlins would defeat the Yankees to proceed to win 
the title.
The 2003 playoffs let loose from my mind a thought 
to which I have avoided succumbing over the past few 
years  that baseball playoffs are more exciting and 
enjoyable than the playoffs in any other professional 
sport. But its true: each player fortunate enough to 
play postseason baseball steps up his game to another 
level, and the fan attraction seldom deteriorates. 
Conversely in the NFL, many fans lose entire interest in 
the remainder of the playoffs once their team has lost
 I, for one, have been apathetic towards the two 
Super Bowl teams since the 1995 season when the 
Steelers last played. Additionally, I feel that winning 
the title in baseball is a much bigger goal for the two 
teams playing than it is in football, for merely getting to 
the Super Bowl is the primary goal of every NFL team, 
and is an accomplishment within itself.
The NBA playoffs annually offer fewer close games 
than playoffs in other professional sports, and the pas
sion for the title that many players lack often results in a 
small fan base. And of course the NHL market has 
declined so drastically over the past few years than the 
entire league is in jeopardy. Oh, and by the way, 
NASCAR isnt a sport.
Bary Dunn (bdunn@J is a sophomore and welcomes all t responsible replies to his first column. \
COLIN, from page A12
they couldnt afford any of their players and sold them 
all away, creating a five-year period of sucking. Now 
they win the World Series again as a low-market team. 
Their fans are elated and pack the park full for every 
game in the postseason. I hate the Marlins; Im angry 
writing about them right now. Aside from the fact they 
got lucky and topped my beloved Cubbies in the NLCS,
I can honestly say the fans do not deserve this team. 
Over the last few years, including this year when they . 
were the best team in baseball since May, the fans have 
not gone to see any Marlins games. Now, all of a sud
den, everyone in Miami is a diehard Florida fan. They 
are a perfect example of the fair-weather fan. To me 
fans like this only encourage teams to buy players; 
clearly no one will watch them unless they win. As 
much as I blame the Yankees for buying championships 
every year, the blame falls just as much on fans that 
refuse to go see a team that isnt any good.
What ever happened to the good old-fashioned day at 
the ballpark or the football game? Yes, tickets are 
ridiculously expensive, but they are that way so teams 
can buy players and be competitive. It is such a vicious 
cycle that its ruining every professional sport by mak
ing them all a business and fans like those fools down 
in Florida are just as much part of the problem as that 
bastard Steinbrenner.
But it isnt all bad: Id be remiss to leave out loyal, 
and true fans of perennial losers such as the Cubs and 
the Red Sox. Those teams sell out nearly every game, 
win or lose. I could wax poetic about how much I 
admire dedicated fans of losing teams for a couple 
pages, but Ill spare you. The point I argue is this: the 
problems in baseball, football, hockey, or basketball are 
the result not only of managers and players sacrificing 
the proverbial love of the game for more money, but 
also of fans who refuse to watch a team unless it spends 
this money.
It is easy to accuse players for demanding more 
money, and stadiums for charging too much money, but 
the finger of blame has to weed its way through the 
professionals and on down to those of us who support 
them. Fans have helped create an atmosphere where 
winning is all that matters, and now they complain 
when the piper comes to collect his payment for their 
actions.
As I sat and watched the Marlins celebrate their 
incredible victory last night I realized how much I 
hated watching baseball.
Even though it was the Yankees who were defeated, 
even though it is nice to see small-market teams win, 
knowing that those fans down in Florida didnt give a 
damn about this team until the postseason really chaps 
my ass.
The Marlins had the best record in baseball over the 
period spanning from May until the end of the year.
They were in a tight wild card race all season, yet no 
one cared until they were winning playoff games. I 
understand that I cannot expect people to go see a bad 
team play all the time, but that is no excuse to only fol
low a team when it wins. Fair-weather fans like those in 
Florida have long been overlooked when analyzing the 
problems in professional sports.
It is people who expect victory at any cost who spur 
the free-agent horse that is running wild on the true 
fans field of dreams.
Colin Holloway (colinh@J is a senior history major. He welcomes all responsible. Replies to his column.
Volleyball team defeats W&J with authority
by Bary DunnSports Editor
' - In the third and final meeting 
Friday night between Carnegie 
Mellon and Washington and 
Jefferson, the Tartans emphatically 
proved that they were the better team 
by defeating the Presidents 3-0.
The Tartans controlled the first 
meeting between these two teams 
early in the season, although they 
were defeated the second time the 
teams played in a fan-rowdy 
Washington gymnasium. That victory 
was the first for the Presidents 
against the Tartans since 1997, and 
according to Tartan head coach Julie 
Webb, they played the game of their 
lives.
Seeking to prove who was the bet
ter team, the Tartans played Friday 
night as if it was the last match they 
would ever play.
We stomped them, said Webb, it 
was sweet revenge since they beat us 
* the last time.
The team traveled to Rochester the 
previous weekend to compete in part 
two of the UAA round robin. The 
Tartans fared well, leaving the lovelyweathered town with a 3-1 record.
Despite having won three matches 
in Rochester, they were all quite com
petitive, according to Webb. The 
Tartans defeated both the University 
of Rochester and Case Western 
Reserve in four games, and Brandeis 
University in five games. The 
Brandeis game was particularly spe
cial to this group of girls considering 
the match commenced with a 2-0 
Brandeis lead. The only Carnegie 
Mellon loss of the weekend came to 
Washington University, who shut out 
the intimidated Tartans 3-0.
The girls didnt know what to 
expect, said Webb, They hadnt 
seen such a high-paced game all sea
son.
It was embarrassing. We havent 
suffered a loss that bad since 1998.
On November 7 and 8, the Tartans 
will travel to New York University to 
compete in the UAA championships, 
where they will seed fourth overall 
out of eight teams. In the first round, 
Carnegie Mellon will play 
| Washington University, Rochester 
University, and University of Chicago, 
and the top two teams will advance to
dN8m uuners/rnuiu cuuur
Sophomore middle hitter Chrissy Bartek spikes one home for the Tartans.
the semifinals along with the top two 
teams from the other bracket.
Prior to entering this tournament, 
the team has many things to work on 
in order to prepare.
Service has been inconsistent, 
said Webb. Blocking has improved, 
but we need to continue to work on 
it.
Nonetheless, regardless of the 
teams outcome in the UAA tourna
ment, Webb is extremely proud of her 
team.
Everyone has stepped up. This is a 
good group of girls and Im really 
excited to work with them in upcom
ing years.
The Tartans will be able to apply 
the adjustments made in practice this 
week against their opponents on 
Friday and Saturday in the Carnegie 
Mellon Tournament, which hosts 
Allegheny, Buffalo State, Gettysburg, 
Lycoming, and Susquehanna.
It goes without saying that success 
in this tournament will certainly give 
the Tartans the confidence that they 
need when they enter the UAAs in 
two weeks.
The last tournament that the 
Tartans won was the Lycoming 
Tournament on September 26 and 
27, which featured similar teams to 
those participating this weekend.
the tall and short of it
for the fall evenings 
of rush parties.
For the love of shoes.
Something lb Smile About!
For an opportunity for students andfaculty to get acquainted with us...
tricked out casuals
for the late nights 
at the library.
serious boots
for slogging to that
early morning class 
in the rain.
 Serving the Community with 
Exceptional Dental Care since 1989
 Gentle and Caring Dentist
 Same Day Emergency Care
If Time - Quality - Gentle 
Care are important to you...
Call us today:
Rd-gBdyBAdd
look forward to meeting you!
000000000321

---------------------------------------------------

Someth
Page All?27 October 2OO3THE TARTAN
Tartans thump Case, Rose-Hulman
Despite the 34 points that Rose-Hulman 
Stadium on Homecoming Day.
by Brad GrantzContributing Alumnus
Opposing defenses, prepare to 
have your docks cleaned by Brad 
Stanley Steamer. The junior full
back paced the Tartans with three 
touchdowns in Saturdays 51-34 
defeat of Rose-Hulman Institute of 
Technology as he continued to put 
up numbers that has him among the 
nations leaders in scoring.
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff 
put on the board, it was a rough day for the visiting team Saturday in Gesling
Stanley carried the ball 23 times 
for 153 yards, his third 100-yard 
rushing day this season and his sec
ond in a row as the Tartans improved 
to 5-2 with another well-rounded 
performance.
Rose-Hulman traveled from Terre 
Haute, Indiana with high expecta
tions. A 30-10 pasting of Milsaps last 
Saturday gave the Engineers their 
first four-win season since 1996. But 
they were lining up against a CMU 
team that had just played its best
football of the season against Case 
Western the week before. In the 
44-16 win, junior quarterback 
Jarrod Highberger made smart deci
sions, Stanley and senior halfback 
Ricardo Clarke cruised behind a 
healthy offensive line, and the 
defense was impenetrable at critical 
moments.
The subtle difference between the 
Case and Rose-Hulman games was 
that a home crowd actually watched 
this weeks domination. A
Tartans win four straight
Saturday, Carnegie Mellon defeat
ed the Washington & Jefferson 
Presidents 3-0.
The Tartans scored twice within 
the first 17 minutes of play and their 
third goal was scored in the first half 
as well. The first goal came in the 
opening minute and was scored by 
Browne, who received a Steidel 
throw-in at Washington & Jeffersons 
back post and put it in the net with 
authority.
Carnegie Mellons second goal 
came from Painter. Beck sent him an 
accurate pass and Painter fired a 
blazing shot into the goal from thirty 
yards away.
The goalie didnt have much of a 
chance with Marks shot, Steidel 
said.
Steidel redirected a Painter corner 
kick out of reach from President 
goalkeeper, Mike Garret, for the 
third score of the half. The second 
half, like the rest of the game, would 
be controlled by the Tartans as they 
held possession of the ball nearly the 
entire time. Junior Tartan goalkeep
er Dave Thomas only saw two shots 
in the match and saved both to 
record his third shutout in four 
games.
Rochester was a very tough 
game, said Head Coach Nick 
Gauduiso, but the rest were pretty 
much dominated by us.
The Tartans wrapped up the gruel
ing two-week stretch and improved 
to 3-1-0 in the UAA conference and 
11-1-0 on the season.
At this point were playing well, 
but injuries are going to be a probShafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff
Players from Carnegie Mellon and Grove City watch the ball soar towards the net.
lem this week, said Gauduiso.
With only four games remaining, 
the mens soccer team looks forward 
to their next game on Wednesday at 
3 pm against University of Pittsburgh
- Johnstown, their last non-conference match. Carnegie Mellons next 
home game will be played on 
Halloween against New York 
University at 5:30 pm.
Swimming & diving teams begin season, winning
by Daniel CepposStaffwriter
After an exhausting and unbeaten 
two weeks of competition, the 
Carnegie Mellon mens soccer team 
has improved its ranking to 16th in 
the nation. Over the two-week span, 
which was, for the most part, spent 
on the road, the Tartans outscored 
their opposition by a combined total 
of 8-1.
The stretch began with the Tartans 
trekking to upstate New York to play 
an intense intra-conference game 
against the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets. Rochester pulled 
ahead in the first half via a penalty 
kick by midfielder Nick Wheeler that 
resulted from a questionable call.
Redemption would come in the 
second half for the Tartans, when a 
blatant handball obstructed sopho
more midfielder Dan Mastalskis 
serve into the Yellowjacket box and 
earned Carnegie Mellon a penalty 
shot of their own. Junior forward 
James Steidel capitalized on the 
opportunity and tied the match at 
one goal apiece.
The score would remain tied until 
the final few minutes of regulation 
when Rochester defense would yield 
to Tartan offensive pressure. With 
three minutes left, a rebound from a 
Mastalski shot found the head of 
junior defenseman Alex Beck to ulti
mately pass the Rochester goalkeep
er. Jonathan Browne tracked down 
the ball and finished the play with a 
goal.
by Colin HollowayStaffwriter
After months of off-season and 
preseason training and practices, the 
varsity swimmers finally started 
their season last Saturday against 
Franklin and Marshall. While most of 
the campus was enjoying its mid
semester extended weekend, the 
swim team began its quest to outdo 
its incredible performance of last 
year, when the men finished 4th in 
the nation. With strong perfor
mances from both the men and the 
women, the team made a statement 
that they want to make another 
national impact this season.
Last minute attempts from 
Rochester would prove futile and the 
Tartans would leave New York with a 
crucial team victory.
We really began to gel together 
and attack as a team, said Steidel.
This was a great game. Our team 
showed a lot of heart, said senior 
midfielder Mark Painter.
Carnegie Mellon would next travel 
to Cleveland to compete with' yet 
another UAA rival, Case Western 
Reserve. The match would be domi
nated by the Tartans despite the low 
score of 2-0. Jonathan Browne bicy
cle-kicked a flipping throw-in from 
junior midfielder Mike Steffa and 
found the back of the net within the 
opening minutes of the first half. The 
second goal came from Steidel near 
the games end on a pass from 
Browne. Case Westerns best oppor
tunity to retaliate came minutes later 
on a penalty shot that missed the net.
The Tartans returned home on 
Wednesday to beat Grove City 
College. The games only tally came 
unassisted from Alex Beck, who 
blasted a shot past the visiting goal
keeper in the eighth minute of the 
first half. Although Carnegie Mellon 
would possess the overwhelming 
edge in scoring chances, goals were 
hard to come by due to Grove Citys 
defensive strategy. The Tartans held 
Grove City shotless in a nevertheless 
frustrating performance.
It should have been a much high
er score, said Painter. We just 
couldnt finish.
The game ended with a 1-0 Tartan 
win.
Senior Brian McCarthy and junior 
Chris Pearson led the team with 
results that already qualify them for 
the NCAA national tournament in 
March. Pearson will be going for the 
200-yard freestyle, while McCarthy 
qualified for both the 100-yard back
stroke and the 200-yard IM. 
According to coach Dave Belowich, 
there has never been one national 
qualifier from CMUs first meet, 
much less two in three events.
The guys swam really fast, said 
Belowich. Its a great way to start 
the season, it gives everyone a lot of 
confidence.
I decided to extend my season by 
a few weeks, McCarthy said, Its a 
great start, and we are all looking
forward to doing even better 
throughout the year.
On the womens side, sophomore 
Allie Theus also swam potential 
national qualifying times in the 
womens 100-yard and 200-yard but
terfly.
Saturday in a womens-only meet 
against Grove City, the Tartans built 
on the success of the first meet as 
they competed against a great team 
with the best womens freestyle 
swimmer in the country, Grove City 
senior Peggy Whitbeck.
Not only did the girls win their 
share of events, Belowich said, but 
they showed more depth than Grove 
City, which I think is the mark of this 
years team. We have a good focus on
.5
Homecoming crowd of 2500 was 
present at Gesling 'Stadium, versus 
last week when the Case Western 
cheering section was more vocal 
than the loyal Kiltie Band, which was 
outnumbered because of midsemes
ter break.
Lest the Tartans experience a let
down, the offense opened the game 
with a 14-play, 80-yard drive. 
Stanleys five-yard run capped a bal
anced march of run and pass. 
Highberger completed three of four 
passes, including two on 3rd and 7 
that kept the Tartans moving.
After exchanging possessions, the 
Engineers ran the football four times 
for 37 yards to the CMU 23-yard line. 
But Rose-Hulman would have to set
tle for a 39-yard field goal by Cory 
Wright after a recovered fumble on 
2nd down and an incomplete pass on 
3rd down. Rose-Hulman was a mis
erable 4 for 13 on 3rd down, a testa
ment to a stout Tartan defense as 
much as a indictment of the RHIT 
offense. On several occasions the 
Engineers had a chance to get back 
into the ballgame, only to see their 
chances slip through their receivers 
hands.
The Tartans would score on three 
of their next four possessions to take 
a 28-3 lead with 4:45 to play in the 
first half. After the RHIT field goal, 
Highberger led his team to paydirt 
with a nine-play, 57-yard drive that 
consumed nearly four minutes of the 
clock.
One of the more beautiful plays of 
the game was a 30-yard pass by 
Highberger to ^ senior wide receiver 
Chris Kay. Kay, who had just one or 
two steps on his defender, dove at 
the Rose-Hulman 20-yard line to 
catch the ball and put the Tartans in 
the red zone. Junior halfback Ryan 
Neupaver would finish the drive 
with a five-yard run.
Then began a game of field posi
tion. The Tartans went three-and-out 
on their next possession, but senior 
Mike Palmers 44-yard punt pinned 
Rose-Hulman at their own 1-yard 
line. RHI could muster only four 
yards before a 25-yard punt set the 
table for another CMU Stanley 
touchdown. The Tartans would 
begin their next drive in an equally 
fortuitous place, the Rose-Hulman
winning events, but the strength is 
the great depth of this team.
The depth for both the mens and 
womens squads comes in part from 
the ability of their first-years to get 
used to competing at a collegiate 
level.
Many of our freshmen are used to 
competing at high school levels only, 
foregoing the U.S. Swimmer Inc. 
club competitions that help get them 
used to collegiate swimming, said 
Belowich. They arent used to swim
ming some of the same distances as 
college swimmers do, but they are 
acclimating well to this different 
type of training. It can be a little 
intimidating for them, but they are 
handling themselves well.
34-yard line. Clarke, who had 80 
yards on 18 carries, went nine yards 
on a sweep to the right corner of the 
end zone.
There was little going right for the 
Fightin Engineers of Rose-Hulman. 
CMU controlled the clock, and the 
opposition couldnt stop the vaunted 
CMU running game, couldnt con
vert on third down, and couldnt find 
the right formation to attack the 
CMU defense.
Rose-Hulman went into a no-hud
dle, shotgun formation that kept the 
Tartan defense on the field for the 
next 3:35 and two RHIT touch
downs. On their first touchdown, 
Engineer first-year quarterback 
Cameron Hummel passed to Charlie 
Key on a fade route. But Tartan 
defensive tackle Mike Burnside 
blocked the extra point attempt, the 
first of four failed conversion 
attempts.
RHIT recovered a fumble by 
Neupaver on the ensuing kickoff at 
the Tartan 20-yard line. Hummel hit 
Jason Dickey on a skinny post for a
22-yard touchdown with 1:01 
remaining in the second quarter.
RHIT opened the third quarter 
with the football, but failed to score. 
It was as close as they would con
ceivably get to making it a competi
tive game. With good field position, 
the Tartans drove 53 yards and 
extended their lead to 34-15 after a 
Clarke touchdown (the extra point 
attempt was blocked). The offensive 
line, rejuvenated by the return of left 
guard David Stein, blew apart the 
RHIT defense so that Stanley could 
pummel the Engineer secondary. On 
a 23-yard rush to the RHIT 31-yard 
line, Stanley gave a piggy-back ride 
to RHIT cornerback Matt 
Colatruglio.
Three plays later, the Tartan 
defense would put the game out of 
reach. Sophomore linebacker Tom 
Fister scooped up a lateral pass 
behind the RHIT 10-yard line and 
ran it for the score. Rose-Hulman 
would get as close as 41-28 at the 
3:21 mark of the third quarter, but 
another Stanley touchdown and a 
33-yard .field goal by Nathaniel 
Greenstein ensured that the 
Homecoming crowd would go home 
happy.
An important reason for this good 
adjustment has been the help that 
the upperclassmen have provided to 
these inexperienced first-years on 
how to compete at the next level.
We are happy with the upper
classmen, coach Belowich said. 
They have done a great job; this is 
one of the best senior classes Ive 
ever coached.
It was a great start, said Brian 
Belowich, but we are looking to get 
better; the rest of the season looks 
very promising for us. With the 
leadership and commitment this 
team has displayed in the very short 
season so far, the swimmers are in a 
good position to once again flex their 
muscle on a national stage.
Thrills, stars 
of October 
best ever
Bary Dunn
In a month of October that contin
ually kept you on the edge of your 
seat and up past your bedtime, the 
Florida Marlins proved that they 
were the best Major League Baseball 
team in the world. And in what 
sweeter fashion could they have 
gone out as champions than defeat
ing the New York Yankees Saturday 
night in the Bronx.
With a lineup that provided speed 
at the top, experience at the bottom, 
and an all-star catcher in the middle, 
there is no question how the Marlins 
have been the most winning ball club 
since May 15. When it was all said 
and done, there was only one thing 
left for Yankee fans to do  stand up 
and clap  just as the Cubs fans did 
when their players lost, to respect 
this classy, well-coached team.
Not enough can be said about 
World Series MVP Josh Beckett, a
23-year-old stud whose name, prior 
to this season, was more notorious 
for the baseball card magazine than 
the starting pitcher.
Throughout the nine innings that 
he pitched, he had every Yankees 
number, and there would be no lastminute comeback for the pinstripes 
this time.
It was not, however, only this bril
liant World Series upset that offered 
the flare and excitement of the 2003 
playoffs. From September 30 until 
October 25, eight teams provided 
what was one of the best playoffs in 
the history of the sport.
The main aspect of the playoffs 
that attracted so many Americans, 
not just baseball fans, was the superstar appeal. Last years playoffs were 
exciting, but of the four teams play
ing in the championship series, Barry 
Bonds was truly the only recogniz
able player to fair-weather baseball 
fans. This year, Bonds seemed to just 
be another face in the crowd, as his 
Giants lost the division series to the 
Marlins.
In addition to Bonds, the playoffs 
offered such stars as Sammy Sosa,
Ivan Rodriguez, Nomar Garciaparra,
See BASEBALL, page All
Money, fan 
support, and 
Bo Jackson?
Colin Holloway
Im sure most of you readers out 
there have occasionally turned on 
the TV and flipped through to find a 
stroll down the memory lane wind
ing through the 1980s. After the suc
cess of I Love the 80s and its sub
sequent 1970s counterpart, VH1 is 
once again glorifying the decade I 
spent the first 8 years of my life run
ning around in with I Love the 80s 
Strikes Back.
Like many people my age I have 
tuned into this tribute to see all the 
things I was too young to enjoy in 
the 1980s, and tonight I was finally 
greeted with something I was really 
into: Bo Jackson. Im sure anyone 
who was conscious of sports back in 
the late 80s knows Bo, and to be cer
tain Bo knew you too. Why? Cause 
old Bo knew every damn thing there 
was to know, and he knew it well. 
Seeing Bo again was like an instant 
writers block cure for a sports 
columnist, and naturally I got to 
thinking. I said to myself, Self, I 
said, you know things, why do you 
limit yourself to just one sport?
Well, its a darn good question. Bo 
knows, Colin knows, and now Im 
going to prove it.
In this column I speak to the fans. 
Not only to the fans of the NFL, but 
to those who gather around the tele
vision week in and week out to 
watch any of their favorite teams 
fight for glory. Or that is how it used 
to be.
Now, with free agency dominating 
the leagues, sports have become less 
about glory and more about financial 
gain. Athletes sell out their home 
town fans for a couple extra million 
that they do not need. As sad as it is, 
sports fans, there is not a damn thing 
we can do to change it. It is a mess.
But fans are not totally innocent in 
the mess that is professional sports 
today. I draw your attention to the 
underdog Florida Marlins, champi
ons in this years World Series. For 
those of you unfamiliar with base
ball, here is their brief history: in 97 
they won the World Series with a 
team full of high-price players they 
bought to succeed. After the win
See COLIN, page All *
