1 #The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 12OASNEQIE INSTITUTE 0# TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBUHOH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1842
Jones Loses Close 
Eng. Senate Race
John Beatty, Ckairman of the 
Elections Committee, announces 
that there will be four polling 
places available for tomorrow's 
elections. One is in Administration 
Hall, for freshmen and sophomore 
engineers, and one is in room 152 
Industries for junior and senior en
gineers. The other two are near the 
main entrances of Arts and Mar
garet Morrison. Students must pre
sent their athletic cards to vote. 
Polls will be open from 11:30 to 
2:30.
In the past, the Independent 
Party on campus was thought of as 
being permanently deflated. To 
those who still dream of a truly 
representative student governing 
body, let them be reminded that 
Chuck Jones, Independent candi
date for the office of President of 
Engineering Senate, lost the elec
tion last week by a -mere 17 votes! 
The final tabulation was: Galbraith 
422; Jones 405.
Continued on Page 7
New Changes To Be 
Discussed At Student 
Council Meeting Tonite
Since the essential parts of the 
Student Council Constitution were 
written in 1923, many of the clauses 
are now out of date. The elimina
tion of student salaries last year 
necessitated the removal of the sal
ary article from the constitution. 
Thus Student Council President 
Jack Van Arsdell explained the 
cause for the changes in Councils 
Constitution which were proposed 
at last Tuesday nights meeting. 
Those proposals will be voted on at 
tonight's Council meeting.
Several changes have been made 
in the proposal since its reading at 
the Council meeting. Disregarding 
the formal style of the proposal, 
these are the main changes:
(1.) Abolishment of all college 
Senates.
(2.) Representatives to Coun
cil to be elected at large 
with one representative 
for every 100 students.
(3.) Representatives in EngiContinued on Page 6
Observance of 30th Carnegie Day 
To Be Held At Music Hall Today
See pictures on page 8
Beta Sigma Rho Wins 
Scholarship Trophy
Doherty and T. D. Jolly 
To Address Assembly
Mel Snyder, Jeanne King Head Tartan
In accordance with a revised plan sports staff, there will be Don 
for the election of a new staff, MelFrench and Dan Lindstrom. 
vin Snyder, Aero, '43, has been Melvin Snyder has been active on 
chosen Editor of the Carnegie farthe Tartan since his freshman year, 
tan for the coming semester, with and was Personnel Manager during 
Jeanne King, General Studies, 43, this past semester. He is also on the
fP|IH
' L
--------------
1.) A 
i.7i P>, 
as Managing Editor.
The new plan was devised to take 
care of the extra semester due to 
the expedited program. It consists 
of the election of an editor and man
aging editor from the seniors who 
will be in school next semester, the 
rest of the staff to compose an edi
torial board from the present junior 
staff. Plans call for members of 
this board to be issue editors,-either 
singly or in pairs, their duties as 
such being to assume the position 
of managing editors. Next spring, 
a complete new staff will be elected 
from the editorial board to serve 
for their last two semesters.
The Editorial Board will consist 
the following juniors: Dave
Neuss, Ed Goldstein, Elaine Levin, 
Walter Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J. 
Harmany, Louisa Saul, Doreen Bar*y and Helena Aronson. From the
C. M. C. A. cabinet, the Rifle Team, 
a member of the Society of Amer
ican Military Engineers and the I. 
A. S. Last year he was manager of 
the varsity track team. Because 
of his three years work on the Tar
tan, Mel has been made a member 
of Pi Delta Epsilon, mens journal
istic honorary. Jeanne is vice pres
ident of the women's journalistic 
honorary, Alpha Chi Alpha, and is 
a member of Kappa Phi Delta and 
the Mortar Board. She was one of 
the Tartan staff secretaries during 
the preceding two semesters.
The official announcement of the 
new positions will be made at the 
Tartan Banquet, to be held at the 
Royal York Apartments at 6:30 P. 
M. on Monday, November 30th. 
Highlight of this occasion vfill be 
the unmasking of J. B.prominent 
Tartan Drama Critic.
Beta Sigma Rho was the winner 
of the fraternity scholarship trophy 
which was awarded today at the 
Carnegie Day ceremonies. This is 
the second successive year that the 
Beta Sigs have won this award, 
this time with a factor of 2.41. Trail
ing close behind was Theta Xi with 
a factor of 2.35 and Sigma Alpha Ep* 
silon with a 2.305. The Tau D&lts, 
who won permanent possession of 
the Phi Kappa Phi Scholarship 
Trophy two years ago when they* 
won it for the third successive sea
son have now slipped to last place.
Boss Hall easily took the mens 
dormitory scholarship cup with a. 
factor of 2.57. Next in the competi
tion for this cup was McGill Hall 
with a factor of 2.39.
The factors of the sororities make 
all the others seem diminutive. The 
Mu Alpha Gammas barely led this 
group with the impressive factor of 
2.8. Gamma Gamma Gamma and 
Alpha Kappa Psi rated second and 
third with factors of 2.78. and 2.69 
respectively.
The girls dormitory award went 
to Mellon Hall. Last year Mellon 
was one of the stragglers but this 
time it nosed out last years win
ner, Whitfield Hall, with a factor of 
2.53. Whitfield and Forbes Halls 
placed second and third in this 
group with factors of 2.46 and 2.45. 
A complete list of the organizations 
and their factors are:
Fraternities
Beta Sigma Rho ...................... 2 41
Thela Xi...... ...............2.35
Sigma Alpha Epsilon....................... 2.305
Delta Upsilon.................................. 2.29
Delta -Tau l)ella ..................... 2.206
Beta Theta Pi.................................. 2.203
Kappa Sigma............................... 2.089
Pi Kappa Alpha.................. ........ 2.076
. Phi Kappa .... ............ 2.06
Sigma Nu ........................................ 2.01
Alpha Tau Omega .................. 1.98
Tau Delta Phi ................................ 1.903
. Sororities
Mu Alpha Gamma......................... 2.60
Gamma Gamma Gamma............... 2.78
Alpha Kappa Psi ........................... 2.69
Gamma Phi Sigma........................ 2.57
Alpha Theta Sigma ....................... 2.47
Beta Tau Lambda ........................ 2.46
Kappa Phi Delta............................ 2.35
Beta Pi ........................................... 2.07
Mens Dormitories
Boss Hall ........................................ 2.57
Welch Hall ...................................... 2.39
McGill Hall...................................... 2.35
Scobell Hall .................................... 2.32
Henderson Hall'............................... 2.05
Women's Dormitories
Mellon Hall ..................................... 2.53
Whitfield Hall ................................ 2.46
Forbes Hall'...................................... 2.45
Cedar Hall ...................................... 2.30
Cypress Hall.................................... 2.24
Birch Hall........................................ 2.06
Laurel Hell ............ .............. 1.76
Oak Hill ......................... .V I.W
All classes will be suspended to
day between 10:20 A. M. and 1:30 
P. M. for the thirtieth annual ob
servance of Carnegie Day at Carne
gie Music Hall. President Robert 
E. Doherty will deliver an address 
entitled Student Problems in "War 
Time0 and award cups to the frater
nity, sorority* and dormitory which 
compiled the highest average facPRESIDENT ROBERT E. DOHERTY 
. . . presents scholarships cups 1- . .
tors during the past school year. Mr. 
Thomas D. Jolly, Vice-president. 
Chief Engineer, and' Director of 
Purchases of the Aluminum Com
pany of America will bring a greetMR. THOMAS D. JOLLY . . . brings alumni greetings . . . 
ing from the Alumni and give a talk 
on "Aluminum in the War.
Mr. Jolly has been chosen Carne
gies Man of the Year by the Pitts
burgh Mens Clan, an honor that has 
gone annually the past three years 
to some prominent Carnegie alum
nus. Last year it was James H. 
Kindelberger, President of North 
American Aviation, Inc., and in 1940 
it was Charles E. Wilson, President 
-of General Motors.
Continued on ftffe 11

---------------------------------------------------

TH*tPMDA Y. lf OVjalBM M. tPM
Cd&fou' /JtmcUai*Parade of Opinion
A Slight Misunderstanding
Last weeks front' page story which announced the xesults of the Stu
dent Council elections was, we find, misunderstood by the majority of the 
. student body. The Tartan, at that time, stated that Bob Galbraith and 
Jim Boyce would be elected President and Treasurer of Student Council, 
respectively. Many students believed that we were announcing the results 
of the vote for the office of President of Engineering Senate. Let us ex
plain the political set-up of last Tuesdays election: At lunch time the stuan(j ideological leadership, have aldents of the College of Engineering voted for the President of Engineering 
Senate, The candidate receiving the majority of the votes cast was elect
ed to that office. The candidate with the second highest vote became Vicepresident of Engineering Senate. Both of these men, the President and the 
Vice-president of Engineering Senate, then became members of Student 
Council.
Student Council then elected the incoming president from any person 
holding_an office (President or Vice-president) in either Engineering or 
Arts Senate. The Tartan learned, weeks ago, that Bob Galbraith was se
lected by the Fraternity Combine as its candidate for Council President.
Obviously, since the fraternities are in control of Council, they could elect 
whomever they wished, which in this instance was Bob Galbraith.
While on the subject of politics, we should like to remind the student 
body of the election which will be held tomorrow. Certainly, in times like
An ColUgiat* Pr Fmtura
The Question of colleges shirking their duty and perpetuating the pril, 
ilenod class smtem is one that has been discussed many times. In the j0i. 
lZng ProVTZ editorial THE COLUMBIA DAILY SPECTATOR 
sents a point of view with which we heartily concur.-Ed.
American colleges and universi
ties, secure in their traditions of ac
ademic freedom and intellectual
ways been looked upon as a vital 
part of the democratic heritage. Yet 
today, for the first time, they are be
ing compelled to face openly the one 
issue they have avoided, but which 
directly challenges their right even 
to consider themselves a part of the 
democratic way of life.
For the blunt fact is that the 
whole system of higher education in 
this country is built upon the basis 
of class privilegefor the colleges 
now, as in the past, continue to 
draw their students primarily from
these, every student should exercise his right to vote. We should like to those financially able to afford an 
see the Independents win, but somehow, we hesitate to say so because 
of the fear of driving more people to the other side. Sometimes our edi
torials affect people that way, so let the record show that we are impartial 
on the matter.
Kits The Boys Goodbye
With this issue, Volume 36, Number 12, we step down from the duties 
of the Tartan Editorship and turn over our keys to the newly elected stall. 
It is with a certain feeling of pride that we end our brief journalistic career 
with this sixteen page Carnegie Day issue; it is with a feeling of regret that 
we leave the Tartan offices where we have spent the majority of our Fri
day evenings during our four year stay at Carnegie Tech.
There have been many subjects which we wanted to discuss in this 
column, items which were crowded out by what we considered more Im
portant subjects. However, perhaps they were better left unsaid, for we 
certainly had our hands full fighting for what we had already said. Our 
sole aim during the year was to make the Tartan a better paperto give 
Tech students their moneys worth. If we have succeeded, our efforts have 
been amply rewarded; if we have failed, we can simply say that we have 
done our best.
The publication of any paper requires the cooperation of many individ
uals and organizations. On this score, the Tartan has been most fortunate. 
Speaking for the entire Tartan staff, we should like to take this opportunity 
to thank those who have made the weekly appearance of this paper a re
ality. Speaking for ourself, we should like to thank the underclassmen of 
the Tartan staff for putting up with an Editor who has, were sure, made 
life miserable for them.
Well, thats about the end. Theses still a lot to say, but there are only 
so many words that will go into this space. So, to our last Tartan editorial 
we write, Thirty.'
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the .staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are to be construed <w necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
PHONS StAYFIiOWBE 2F0OKE BCHENLEF4
Natioaal Advertising Service, Inc.
After Office Hours Call
EdItor-ln-Cblef.........................SC. 9070
Business manager.........................SC. 6855
Advertising Manager...............BR. 4759
'sbUifcc4 weekly da riot tlotacriptlM PtU* t
EdUor^in-Chief.........................................................................................Leonard ChotinerBusiness Manager............................................................................................Ted NierenbergCo-Managing Editors...............................................................................................Jack ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editor...................................................................................Stanley A. RosecraTia ______ __________________ ______
3e(LVai^nan scho1 students who graduate in the
education. As a people, we have 
seldom questioned this condition. 
We have built up legends about 
students who work their way 
through college" till we have al
most convinced ourselves that the 
opportunity for higher education is 
open equally to all elements in the 
population. Yet we have failed to 
realize that, not only are colleges 
to a large extent reserved for those 
who can afford it, but even those 
who either partially or wholely 
work their way are able to do 
so simply because their families do 
not require their earnings for sub
sistence.
Difficulties of graduate students
On the graduate school level  
medicine, law, engineering, etc.  
the lines of privilege are even more 
sharply drawn. Since work in these 
advanced fields requires considera
ble more attention than college 
studies, graduate students as a rule 
find it difficult to hold jobs at the 
same time, and consequently great
er emphasis is placed on the state of 
family finances.
In times of peace, a system of col
lege and graduate education based 
on privilege hardly jibes with the 
sacred American principles of 
"equal opportunity for all. In war
time, its undemocratic character is 
accentuated both because it leads to 
serious waste of effective manpower 
and because it inevitably hardens 
the class distinction in the armed 
forces.
That the American people are 
now paying through the nose as a 
result of their delusions about high
er education is seen in recent re
ports of the national resources plan
ing board and the Carnegie endow
ment. Three out of every four high
Staff Secretary......................................................................................................Pat ElmanSports Editor....................................................................................... .........Don WatkinsPersonnel Manager...................................................................................Melvin H. SnyderAdvertising Manager....................*.,.........................................................WUbur ThomasCirculation Manager..........,...........................................................................Irving PalefskyStaff Artist............................................................................. ............................Elliott TuferyStaff Photographer................................................................................... .Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein,Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusln, Mart Cohn, Ed Croop, 
Aron Beck, Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Alien P. Golden, Adeline Herlick, 
Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris Ktoall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lota PaUon, 
Rhea Rothman, Dorothy Jtutfcin, Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Bob GUUfpis.
top ten per cent scholastically never 
get to college, mainly because of fi
nancial reasons. In other words,
No Tartan Next Week 
Because of an extension in the 
Thanksgiving holiday, there will be 
no Tartan next Tuesday. However, 
publication will be resumed on De> 
cember 8.
the country annually is losing a substantial part of its best brainpow. 
er because the financial means for 
providing the proper traiing for that 
brainpower are unavailable.
Colleges source of material
By now, most of the colleges have 
forgotten that the original Selective 
Service law, which only permitted 
temporary deferment for students, 
was efficiently designed to prevent 
the rise of a privileged group ex
empt from service. The various re
serve plans however, by drawing 
officer material from students after 
they had been admitted to college, 
became a convenient means for cir
cumventing the clear intention of 
the law. No one will deny that de
ferment is necessary to enable a student to receive adequate training; 
but deferment and eventual com
missions belong to those who de
serve them on the basis of ability, 
not to those who were able to 
for the opporunity to receive them.
Since the army and navy depend 
on the colleges for most of their 
ficer material, the effect of perpel* I 
uating the traditional basis for ad
mission can only be to strengthen 
the degree of privilege which perI 
vades the armed forces. A demo
cratic army is one whose officers 
are drawn from all elements in the 
population and not limited to the 
sons of the comparatively well-todo.
The changes which must be made 
are simple, yet clearly revolution
ary in nature. In principle, they 
are contained in the plans now be
ing evolved in Washington. What
ever the form of financial aid 
adopted, it must be made clear that 
there can be no compromise with 
the basic principle that higher ed
ucation is not the possession of a 
particular class, but the right of all 
the people, with the government as
suring the realization of that right 
when necessary.
up to the colleges
It is common knowledge j edu
cational circles that government - 
ficials had originally intended iu p* 
the new plan into effect dumiK 
past summer. However, fear ovc* 
the political implications of the rev
olutionary proposal, not to mention 
the threatened opposition of religi
ous groups and old-line educators 
whose belief in democracy is lim
ited to pretty speeches, is said to 
have stalled public announcement.
For this reason, it is now up to the 
colleges, their faculties and their 
studentsthose most affected by 
the new proposalsto rally behind 
leaders like President Conanl of 
Harvard and show the world that 
they understand that democracy 
tolerates no privileges. Should they 
fail to renounce the present basis 
for higher education in the United 
States they shall in effect have 
given the lie to all their sacred tra
ditions and all their wee won 
about freedom and equality.'*"e 
Columbia Daily spectator. :

---------------------------------------------------

miVMJWt;,. 1M2?
Jtti Not Al/ft* OnAirtAt. . . Off The Cuff .
GMCA-CWCA Dinner 
To Be Given Tonight 
The Men's and Womens Christian 
Associations will hold a Thanksgiv
ing dinner for their respective cab
inets, the freshman cabinets, and all 
others wishing to attend on Novem
ber 24, at 6:00 P. M. in the Union.
Guest speaker for the occasion 
will be Dr. Bernard Clausen, Pastor 
of the First Baptist Church. Dr. 
Clausen is well known by students 
on the Tech campus.
At this dinner the new C. M. C. A. 
officers will be installed: Don
French, President, and DeWitt 
Lyon, Vice President.
Tickets may be purchased for 60c 
from any member of either organi
zation.
*1 Untie, ix.
Carnegie Union, Sunday, Nov. 29 
2:00 Phi Kappa Phi 
2:15 Intersorority Council 
2:30 Kappa Phi Delta Actives 
2:45 Kappa Phi Delta Pledges 
3:00 Gamma Phi Sigma Actives 
3:15 Gamma Phi Sigma Pledges 
3:30 Alpha Theta Sigma Actives 
3:45 Alpha Theta Sigma Pledges 
4:00 Beta Tau Lambda Actives 
4:15 Beta Pi Actives 
4:30 Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Actives
4:45 Alpha Kappa Psi Actives 
5:00 Mu Alpha Gamma Actives
Seniors Notice
OEDES 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS 
HT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem
ber 27, 1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
 
ALUMNI OFFICETHE UNION
She can't-marry ten Beta men, 
but Lu Orr .Baked:.one.. cake for 
Rodger Loper and' one for H. Nel
son; all the Betas must haveen
joyed them because they called her 
up and thanked her by singing 
Howd you like to be a Beta 
sweetheart?: (Yes. Ed note.)
. Our Campus Queen is playing the 
number these days, One a number 
two a numberfive if you want to 
count Hobbs.
Jean Davidson was pinned last 
week by D; U. Bob Hanover. Nice 
going. Our freshmen do all right, 
too. Betty Haynes came in Sunday 
night with Bob Diiricans old school 
ring.
Theres been a change of partners 
and a complete reorganization what 
with Peg Carvier going; with Jack 
Loftus and Ed Munyer escorting 
Doris Sterner around.
The seniors in the dorms got wind 
of their proposed ducking and lock
ed themselves in a room in McGill 
Hall. But when the underclassmen
broke'down the door and got them 
down in the Tech.. bowl, they 
couldnt get enough water. So they 
.threw, mud. .
Maybe someone should tell Halph 
Happe that gas is being rationed or 
that exercise is good for the soul. 
This noble McGill gent climbs into 
his trusty (or rusty) Pontiac every 
morning, drives to Skibo for breakfast, and thence to school, back to 
Skibo for lunch, thence to school, 
back to Skibo for dinner, thence to 
McGill, and thence to McKeesport. 
Sounds a little bit like Smith, Smith, 
Smith, and Jones.
Is there any proof for the rumor 
that a freshman dramat of Oak Hall 
is sporting Ducky Astens Beta 
pin on her slip?
Beta Sigma Rho and Tau Delta 
Phi made merry at the Union these 
past two Sundays when Mu Alpha 
Gamma proved to the doubting 
Tommies that the era of ptomaine 
poisoning is not dead.
FOR-OW!
"Fuelrationed-? I hadn't noticed!"
WAR
hits ih
WIRES!
W
AR hits telephone service two ways 
at once. It piles on a heavy load of 
calls. And it cuts down the supply of tl
phon materials and equipment.
Most Long Distance lines are overloaded 
on weekdays from 9 A. M. to 12, from 2 
P. M. to 5 and from 7 to 9 at night. You can 
usually avoid telephone traffic jams if you 
make your calls during other hours. Best 
time to call home is on Sunday, when lines 
are less busy and the reduced night rates 
are in effect all day.
Please keep all calls brief and avoid 
unnecessary calls. This is especially impor
tant around Thanksgiving, Christmas and 
New Years.
GMiS COME FfRSTf
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
MIT V. S. CTAMM AND WAt tONDS
532389534853484823485323532348532302902323484823232348484823484823482353

---------------------------------------------------

*JnaitiQH
Cameron Of rracht Tartan Gives 
Carnegie Authentic Scotch Colors
By Mel
Carnegie Day, with all its history 
and tradition, seems an opportune 
tiirif to point out some of the wealth 
of history and tradition that 
abounds in soine of the institutions 
of our school.
More mistaken ideas exist about 
Carnegie's colors than on any other 
tradition of the school. Instead of 
adopting school colors like every 
other school in the country (and 
freshmen, still ask, What are Car
negie's colore?), Carnegie Tech has 
chosen the tartan of the clan, Cam
eron of Erracht. Yes, that design 
of the varsity letters aiid the bands 
kilties is the Cameron of Erracht 
tartan, and is never referred to as 
plaid.
The Tartan is one of the oldest 
traditions of Scotland, the native 
land ofour founder, Andrew Car
negie. Each Scottish clan has one 
or more tartans which are the pat
tern or design of th clth of the 
kilties of the members of the dan. 
In no other country has the clan 
system with its outward vestiges, 
tartans, armorial bearings, etc., sur
vived as in Scotland.
Andy Carigie was th son of a 
Scottish weaver, who tfas the son 
of a Scottish weaver, who was . . . 
etc., ad infinitum The connection 
between his family, or as we Scotch 
say, sept, and the Erracht Camer
on Clan is hazy at best.
Snyder
The Tartan of Erracht was spec
ially dedgned for the 79th Cameron 
Highlanders in 1793 when the reg
iment was formed by th famous 
Sir Allan Cameron of Eiracht, K. C. 
B.; Allan's mother created the tar
tan by blending th tartan of her 
clan, the Me Donalds, with that of 
the Cameron of LoCheiL The 79th 
Camerons wore oui tartan in for
eign service in Flanders, and the 
West Indies during the'Eighteenth 
Century.
When the Kiltie Band wanted 
uniforms they sent to Scotland and 
obtained uniforms made of the 
authentic Cameron of Erracht tar
tan. Incidently the blaiiket-like 
mantle over the shoulder is called 
the Plaid the skirt is called th* 
Kiltie, and the Whisk broom*' 
hanging in front is the Sporran.
As a style note it may be remark
ed that the Highlanders considered 
it amatk of shame or effeminacy to 
wear trousers during the period 
after th Jacobite Rebellion of 1745,. 
whn the use of tartans was sup
pressed by an act of Parliament.
W wouldn't be  bit Surprised to 
hear the Kiltie Band, when swing
ing along in th traditional garb of 
the 79th Highlanders to suddenly 
shout their bloodcurdling war cry, 
Darag dearca fitchich!or some
thing.
Students May Join 
Artists For Victory 
To Aid In War Effort
Aestheticaly-minded Tech stutieiits may now have the opportun
ity to do something for the war ef-f6tt. Artists for Victory, Incorpor
ated, a new society recently Organ
ized in Pittsburgh is interested in 
securing enthusiastic students as 
members. All students interested 
in applying for membership should 
see Clarence Carter in the. P. & D. 
Department.
Artists for Victory, Incorporated, 
is composed of all the art organiza
tions in the city. It was formed so 
that all art work, pertaining to the 
war effort, be it literature, music, 
painting, sculpture, drama, or ar
chitecture, might be centralized.
Many members of the faculty of 
Carnegie Tech are active in the or
ganization. Clarence Carter, in
structor in painting, is president. 
Raymond Simboli of the Architec
ture Department is vice-president. 
Gladys Schmitt, English Depart
ment, Samuel Rosenbert, Painting 
and Design Department, Bob Lepper, Painting and Design Depart
ment, J. B. Ellis, Sculpture Depart
ment, and Margaret Schneider, 
Drama Department, head commit
tees on literature, painting, poster, 
sculpture, and dance, respectively.
So far, Artists For Victory has 
been busy getting organized. How
ever, it has plans to make posters 
pertaining to the war effort, using 
local subject material and sugges
tions from the Office of War Infor
mation in Washington. It will give 
art books and mazaines to army 
camps for those soldiers interested 
in keeping in touch with the art 
world. The organization also plans 
to sponsor exhibits, the proceeds of 
which will be given to war activi
ties. The biggest project that Art
ists For Victory is planning is a 
masque which will be held in the 
spring.
College Training 
Useful To WAACS
Although the Womens Army 
Auxiliary Corps has no specific ed
ucational requirements, WAAC of
ficials report that college training 
often produces the quality of leader
ship that the Corps is seeking in its 
officers.
The first 436 WAAC officers were 
commissioned directly from civilian 
life to tfriri incoming members of 
the Corps, but in th future all of
ficers will be promoted from the 
ranks.
The ranks of the Vif AAC are open 
to all women between the ages of 21 
and 45, regardless of race, color and 
creed, Mrs. Ovta Culp Hobby, Di
rector of the Corps says. Physical 
fitness and mental alertness are the 
chief requirements. No social or 
educational barriers stand in the 
way of a womans serving her coun
try in the WAAC.
A WAAC must be a citizen of tho 
United States and have a good rec
ord in her home community. She 
must pass the WAAC "mental alert
ness testa general intelligence ex
amand be in good condition phys
ically. Minimum weight is 100 
pounds. Married women are eligi
ble. The Corps is authorized to 
serve anywhere that army units 
may be stationed, at home or abroad, 
in any kind of non-combatant job. 
Every WAAC will wear the olive 
drab uniform and insignia and ac
cessories of the Corps. Enlistment 
is for the duration of the war plu* 
six months.
WAACs will be taken in and 
trained as fast as the army needs 
them to fill specific jobs now held 
by Army men. Greatest demand at 
present is for motor transport driv
ers, clerical workers, signal com
munication personnel  including 
telephone and telegraph operators 
and cooks and bakers. Other types 
of jobs that the WAACS will fill 
are: accountants, dental assistants, 
dieticians, draughtsmen, hostesses' 
aids, library aids, motion picture 
projectionists, printers, reception
ists, statisticians, waitresses and 
many more.
WiVfl been 'floln* steady* o 
long time/ you and f. You cm; 
l*m a symbol of ffia Ilf and 
sparkle of Coca-Cola. There* 
fore, I speak for Cob. I like 
your company. I offer some
thing moro lhan a Ifilnl 
quenching drink. If re* 
freshing. Yes stroo...fffl 
got that ok something 
you can't get this itrfi 1. 
Coca-Cola feoff, lot's gel 
toflctfw. M4b*H dTCMir 
-daft/*
I COCA-COLA COJRFAMV tT
Compliments 
---of --- 
- - - a  
Friend

---------------------------------------------------

"rtMDAT OVDtBBt H, ltdTIHBWlrlwy^WP"1* yo -tOc OiMttaB tlMAK
two of the boys
Walter Haller ...
When a weary looking Buck Pri^- 
vate by the name of Walter Haller 
(better known to his buddies as 
Poodles or Waldor marches to 
and fro under a blaming southern 
sun some two months hence, he will
. . . DarerJfof*
The four words most closely; as
sociatedwith Dave Rose, Meehan-^ 
ical P. H. and V. Senior are 
queri, Bacardi, Cuba Libreand 
Zombi. Aside from being past 
Chancelor of Beta. Sigma-Rho he has
Qi/ut 9*i *7<4 Gotvdtof 
Engineers Base Senior Theses On 
Company Sponsored Experiments
no doubt heave an occasional sigh 
for the familiar faces and places he 
knew at Carnegie Tech.
Hell be thinking of that rollick
ing trip to Annapolis he took with 
the Mens Glee Club during the 
spring of his junior year. Hell re
member, too, those intramural box
ing bouts with scrappy A1 Mura. 
Never to be forgotten will be those 
five days and nights spent with his 
Omicron Delta Kappa brothers 
working on decorations and pub
licity to make the Fall Carnival of 
1942 a success.
As vice president of Pi Delta Ep
silon, the men's journalistic honor
ary, Walt feels that this organiza
tion could be a much more potent 
force in campus publications than it 
now is. His devotion to C. I. T. pub
lications arises from his active par
ticipation on virtually all of them. 
He has contributed his talents and 
his time mainly to the Tartan as comanaging editor. He was layout 
and design editor of both the Tech
nical and the Cut during his junior 
year, and during his freshman and 
sophomore years he was associate 
editor of the Citcommcntator. Of 
late he has been contributing fre
quent articles to the Scottie and 
the Thistle.
But Walter is proudest of the fact 
that he has earned all his school ex
penses in his four years at Tech 
through either scholarships or a 
varied assortment of odd jobs. One 
of his various jobs included living a 
month at Whitfield Hall, an experi
ence which no other male student 
on campus can claim.
If you want to see Walt smile 
wiih pride, just mention the Tech 
Printers, his pride and joy.
devoted most of his time '.to 
strengthening all the fraternities bn 
Campus. Interfratemity Council 
thought so well of his efforts that 
within the past two years they elect
ed him to serve in the three capaci
ties of Publications Chairman, So
cial Chairman, and President.
In step with the times, Dave is a 
super patriot. Not satisfied with 
giving his blood to the effort, short
ly after graduation in December, 
Dave will leave for Chanute Field 
to enter the Air Corps as an Engi
neering Cadet.
Any time not spent at Woodlawn 
Pharmacy is delegated to meetings 
of Pi Tau Sigma, National Mechan
ical Engineering Honorary, and the 
Rules and Regulations Committee, .
Dave hails from a small town in 
Ohio which possibly explains his 
fear of the weaker sex. He says its 
only because he cant get a date 
with any girl more than once ex
cept a certain dark haired Dramat 
whom he took out twice just as a 
fellow inbiber. If you saw Layinia 
in Family Portraits, youll know 
who we mean.
As far as he is concerned, his most 
worthwhile accomplishment in his 
short life as a student, aside from 
making the honor roll, was his suc
cessful effort at reorganizing next 
years Interfratemity Council into 
a council of fraternity presidents.
Mill eaas>-
PRE-MILITARY TRAINING 
for MEN ol MILITARY AGE
Volo.o36 TRAmma
The Department of Civil Engi
neering of Qamegie Tech has the 
distinction of being the first in the 
country to initiate the program of 
having senior theses which are 
based on experiments sponsored by 
commercial companies. These spon
sors, besides providing the supplies 
necessary for conducting the ex
periments, give a bonus of $50 to 
those students working on the proj
ects.
Research work conducted by se
lected senior engineers is designed 
to offer solutions to minor industrial 
problems resulting from the short
age of metals^ from failures in ma
chine parts due to fatigue, and var
ious other difficulties encountered 
in many plant: organizations.
Three senior civil engineers are 
now working; on these sponsored 
theses. Robert E. Linder and Harry 
M. Sadler are experimenting on a 
composite slab of reinforced con
crete 'made of plywood, concrete, 
and a small j&nount of steel shear 
developers rather than steel and 
concrete, as steel is vitally needed 
in war industries. Through this 
achievement, only about two per 
cent of the steel ordinarily used in 
the production of reinforced con
crete is needed.: Weight will be put 
on this slab .to test it, and the ef
fects of temperatures on this new 
combination will be studied. Thus 
the new combination of plywood 
and concrete, if successful, will 
have many practical applications; it 
may be used for service piers, 
bridge floors, and floors in buildings.
The companies backing this ex
periment are the American. Wood 
Preservers Association, from Chica
go, who will supply, the shear de
velopers, $50 for one of the students, 
and an additional grant of $50for 
the purchase of necessary supplies; 
and the Hal Keely Plywood Com
pany, who will furnish' the ply
wood and who will match the mone
tary grants made by the other com
pany. . These establishments are 
taking an interest in this research 
because they wish to advance their 
own products.
Working on the production of 
white concrete.-.from lime and plain 
concrete, as the manufacture of 
white concrete .itself is very expen
sive and has been curtailed since 
the outbreak ofthe war, is Ben 
Marcin. This mixture can be of 
great value in directional curbings 
in airports and along the assembly 
lines of airplane factories. With the 
use of this cheaper white concrete, 
light can be reflected well where it 
is most needed.
The National Lime Association of 
Washington, D. C., is supplying the 
financial bonus and the raw ma
terials needed to conduct the re
search.
A plan such as this should be a 
stimulant to students inasmuch as 
it will yield results which have a di
rect bearing on .the students train
ing and which furnish them with 
valuable practical experience, in
dustrial contacts, and a small fi
nancial return in the form of an 
award. "While it is not very prob
able that extremely important and 
deeply involved research problems 
might be solved through this prac
tice, nevertheless, the cooperating 
industry which has few facilities for 
organized research should find 
much benefit from such a program. 
Perhaps this good idea will spread 
to other departments and other 
schools.
Originator of this plan for senior 
industrial research theses is C. W. 
Muhlenbruch, assistant professor of 
civil engineering. A graduate of 
the University of Illinois, he work
ed at the Aluminum Research Lab
oratory at New Kensington before 
coming to Tech. He has been here 
for four years, and, has contributed 
many valuable articles to technical 
magazines. Last spring many com
panies became interested in his plan 
for plywood girders.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For 
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
FKIh near Mellon InsUtule
*

---------------------------------------------------

N1o oAxraan N3oN32TBIPAT, HOW*1* *1 IMI
Proposed Changes ...
Continued from Page 1
neering and . Margaret 
Morrison will be compos
ed of two-thirds Seniors 
and one-third Juniors.
(4.). Fine Arts representatives 
to be both men and wo
men of the Junior and 
Senior class. One-half to 
be men and the other half 
% women.
(5.) After elections to Stu
dent Council are made, 
the president and vice 
president of Council will 
be elected by the new 
members.
The last point has been discussed 
to great length. That the new of
ficers should be elected by the new 
Council has it merits since the new 
men are in a better position to know 
the capabilities of their own men. 
Many people feel that the old Coun
cil should, as they do now, elect the 
officers since they feel that they 
will chose with the asset of experi
ence.
In regard to Proportional Repre
sentation, another thorn in Councils 
side. Jack has taken a definite stand. 
He is convinced that the system has 
its merits and would like to see it 
given a trial. Before he goes out 
of office, he will bring P. R. up for 
vote.
New Book Club Formed
Here is an opportunity to ease the 
strain on your purse when you do 
your Christmas gift shopping, and 
a chance to get a real bargain in 
book buying throughout the coming 
year. Contemporary Books, locat
ed at 440 Wood Street, is forming a 
book club. Membership in the club 
entitles the holder to a 10 per cent 
discount on all purchases, plus free 
admission to the popular Sunday 
evening programs.
New System Offers 
Sleepless Lectures
By Allen Golden -
Professor Hawkes of Columbia 
University has suggested a solution 
for the everlasting problem of bor
ing lectures. By employing the 
Hawkes System any tired student 
can appear to be wide awake and 
vitally interested in the dissertation 
that he is forced to listen to.
As soon as the lecturer begins ad
ministering his anaesthetic, the stu
dent should listen for a word begin
ning with the letter a. When this 
word is found, the already thrilled 
listener keeps on his toes so that he 
will not miss the "b word, and so 
on through the alphabet. The 
chances of coming across q, x," 
orz are very slim; but this only 
adds to the joy of the game. If a 
player is lucky, he will get through 
the entire alphabet. When he does, 
he wins!
Professor Hawkes is certain , that 
the system works because he has 
experimented with it. Upon first 
inventing the game he described it 
to all of his students. Since that 
time he. has been able to announce 
a greatly increased attendance at 
his lectures; and he also claims that 
when he leaves the room at the end 
of the period, there are no sleeping 
beauties continuing their beauty 
naps into the next period.
As a student, I can vouch for the 
efficiency of the I^awkes system, 
and suggest that the Student Coun
cil give him a vote, of thanks.
(Ed note: We guarantee, Profes
sor Hawkes, that your future class
es will not only be more wide 
awake, but also considerably larger 
if youll try serving tea and crum
pets between p and q.)
tyoun. Qamfut. Stone
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
SPECIAL
Mailing Bags. . 1.49
Alarm Clocks .. $1.49 and up
Carnegie Tech Xmas Cards, $1.00 per dozen
Five Hundred Tissues23c
Tech Stationery49c
Complete Line of
Squibb, Parke & Davis, and Abbot Vitamins
New Assortment of
Kaywoodie Pipes$3.50 to $12.00
Parker 51 Pen & Pencil Sets, $17.50 and up
The Time When The Horse Reigned 
Supreme On The Carnegie Campus
By BUI Kolb
Students and faculty alike are 
worried about Techs future in the 
light of the present shortages and 
curiosity has been aroused as to 
what a car-less Carnegie would 
be like: We went to Mr. J. C. Bur
ry,' the purchasing agent, one of the 
real old timers, to get a brief 
sketch of Tech as he knew it and 
may probably know it again.
The above photo is one of his 
prize possessions and should give 
you some idea of what conditions 
could be like without cars. It pic
tures the first president, Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag, on his return from 
abroad, with Anna B. Smith, first 
dean of Margaret Morrison, and Ed' 
gar Leippe, the president of the sen
ior class. Note the joyous students 
welcoming their president, who 
rides not in a four gallon a mile 
Packard, but a horse drawn car
riage.
Mr. Burry recalls this and many 
other incidents when the horse 
reigned supreme. It seems that the '
Freshmau Assembly
Another Freshman Assembly, for 
men only, will be held on December 
1st at 11:30 in the Little Theater of 
the Fine Arts Building. Sponsored 
by Colonel ^ass and Mr. Risedorph, 
of the Military and Hygiene Departments respectively, this meeting 
will feature a movie on Personal 
Hygiene.
animals were housed in a rectangu
lar bam about one hundred feet 
long, stationed where the flagpole 
now stands in front of the Arts 
Building. Can you imagine horses 
stabled in the Commons, where you 
now eat your daily bread?
Transportation to school for most 
students meant a street-car that 
stopped at the Carnegie Library, for 
the only available entrance was 
across the bridge to Schenley Park.
Now we must prove if we are 
physically superior to men of the 
past as we claim. You may be sure, 
however, that the students of those 
days did not weaken under what we 
would now consider hardships.
--------ON THE RECORD--------
There will be no phonograph re
citals either today or Thursday be* 
cause of Carnegie Day Exercises 
and the Thanksgiving holiday re
spectively. The recitals will be re
sumed next week, however.
Tuesday, December 1 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
program: ^
Symphony No. 6..........Tchalkowsky
Thursday, December 3 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in chorge of the fol
lowing performance:
Rhenish Symphony (Completion) 
Schumann
Duty
Calls
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fitmentally iilcrt. If you arc one of the lfi million Amer
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides O regular stimulat
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Snm'8 health program. 
Keeping yourself phywionlly and mentally alert in on important duty 
not to he neglected. Bowl a few linen each weeknl the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAekaon 026 lflie MURRAY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

NOASENQ yovmBra a. utn ouirian TheCae
*7/te CiUic' Gosut&i
Family Album, Best of Plays; 
Other Two Have Mediocre Success
The Drama department's latest 
presentation was an interesting, 
and, we imagine, a very difficult ex
periment; three one-act plays by to
days master of froth and sophisti
cated nonsense, Noel Coward. Mr. 
Coward produced these plays in 
New York a few years ago with 
himself and Gertrude Lawrence in 
the leading roles, and we could not 
help but wonder, as we watched all 
three, how Mr; Coward and the al
ways delightful Jenny did them. 
It struck us, as the lights came up, 
at complete wordliness, a rare 
quality in matured men and wo
men, is almost too much to expect 
of young actors, no matter how ex
cellent they may be, and no amount 
of vocal tricks and poise can catch 
that elusive omniscience which Mr. 
Coward instills in his work.
This was most evident in the first 
play, "Hands Across the Sea, an 
airy little nonentity about a charm
ingly scatter-brained woman and 
one incident in her very confused 
life. Piggie, the central character, 
whose every word and action cried 
out for Gertrude Lawrence, was 
competently ihterperated by Miss 
Walker, though she,' like all the 
members of casts, was inclined to 
speak a little rapidly. Mr. and Mrs. 
Wadhurst, country cousins with a 
vengence, were treated to a su
perabundance of proviniciability by 
Mr. Motyl and Miss Gerson respec
tively. Strange interperatations 
were Miss Sheinmans as Clare, and 
Mr. Knaaks as Mr. Bumham, whom 
wc would never trust with his own 
knife and fork, let alone the plans 
for a motorboat. Excellent in a 
small part was Mr. Krantz as Bogie. 
The set, attractive, no doubt, on pa
per, suffered under a welter of in
congruous properties. Summary: 
though it may have been written 
like champagne, both of Techs casts 
played it like gin.
The second play, "Still Life, dis
played Mr. Coward's capacity for 
that sordid type of romanticism
which isor was, before the war: 
the bane of those who go to-the the
ater to be entertained. We found, 
it a trifle dull and drawn out, and 
focused our attention on the com
edy which revolved around the 
counter upstage. Mr. Stevens was 
a plausible Albert, and Mr. Agruss 
an exuberent and cheeky Stanley. 
Miss Pursch and Miss Dodge had al
most identical interperatations of 
Mrs. Bagot, though Miss Dodge 
looked more like a bar-maid, which 
may or may not be a compliment. 
The love interest, a heavy business 
at best, was handled competently 
by Miss Layton and Mr. Sivy, less 
so by Miss Roth and Mr. Rose. The 
audience was spared a very ordi
nary parting scene by the entrance 
of a garrulous creature named 
Dolly, whose extreme rudeness 
broke up a dangerously sentimental 
plot and inspired Miss Roth to near 
hysteria. Perfectly matched, we 
thought, were Miss Nelson as the 
free and easy barmaid, and Mr. 
Agruss, whom we have mentioned 
before.
We were so entranced by the 
third play, Family Album/' that 
we find it difficult to remember any 
especially brilliant fragment from 
that kaleiscopic Fantasy With 
Music. The set was excellent, and 
a perfect foil for the black costumes. 
The acting and singing were far 
above average, as was the music, 
especially the little tune about 
somebody* marrying a sailor or 
something. Outstanding was Miss 
Law as Jane with a wonderful, clear 
voice, and a strange sort of intimate 
dignity. Very successful, also, were 
Miss Strober as Lavinia and Mr. 
Parks as Jasper. Though the sup
porting characters had but negligi
ble parts, they were handled with 
assurance and ease. The whole 
performance, from the opening tab
leau to the final line downstage, re
minded us of the stylized technique 
of the older Russian Ballets.
By J. B.
Compliments 
... of - - - 
H. SAMSON, Inc. 
Funeral Directors
537 NEVILLE STREET
Established 1859
Jones Loses
Continued from Page 1 
The slate for tomorrows election 
is as follows: . .
Fraternity Candidate independent 
Class President, ng.
Don R. French. .Robert Culbertson 
Representatives (vote for 4) '
John L. Wolf........; .James Horvis
Robt. Bowler. .Marvin Godberger
Maurice Mednick___;. Robert Tbe
Robt. P. Tabr..... .William Heller 
Vice-prea. Eng. Senate
Philip Rose...........Paul Bluestein
Asst. Treasurers, Eng. (2)
Ralph H. Martin.........Arthur Stdir
Richard P. Lindgren. .Hugh Porter 
Asst. Treasurer, Arts (1)
Louis P. Lavie___..John T. Kelly
Asst. Secretary
Dorothy Houlihan ...........................
Last Tuesday night, Bob Gal
braith was elected president : and 
Jim Boyce treasurer of the new Stu
dent Council. Although Mr. Gal
braith was opposed by the formida
ble Chuck Jones and Fine Arts rep
resentative George Hoppel, he was 
elected per Tartan schedule.
Jim Boyce didnt have any opposi
tion for the treasurers desk. 
Ed'Schatz put the official O; K.- on 
fair-haired Jim (quite legitimate 
and official) who took the portfolio 
hands down.
There was a little mix-up in the 
election of the new Secretary. Since, 
the official recommendation was 
made in favor of Miss Judy Skehan, Council was rather surprised 
when Miss Betsy Beall was elected 
by a one vote majority.
Dresses To Be Modeled
Miss Norma Risman, stylist in the 
Educational Department of the Sim
plicity Patterns1 Company, is bring
ing 22 complete outfits to th Car
negie Tech campus for inspection 
by the coeds. These dresses, suits, 
and school outfits will be modeled 
by 22 freshmen of Margaret Morri
son this afternoon at two o'clock in 
Rec Hall of Maggy Murph.
7^7 toud.
Two Men Win Out 
In Tough Fight
Several w-eeks ago th Tartan 
startled the campus by clearing up 
che enigma Of T T B T that had been 
baffling the campus for days. Once 
again this publication. brings the 
news of the moment with the re
sults of that much talked of bridge 
tournament.
After a final round of 24 hands of 
semi-duplicate bridge the winners, 
and best players. On Tech campus 
are proclaimed to be John Klein 
and Al McKling, Running a close 
second and fighting to the end on 
November 11, were Bob Sterling 
and Irving Palfsky. Others who 
placed - in the tournament were 
Adolph Slone and Sidney Berkowitz, who took third position, 
while Richard Armstrong and Rich 
ard Russell placed fourth.
It seems as though the men have 
once again asserted .their superior
ity. Although the tournament began 
with ten teams of men and ten of 
women, none of the womens teams 
survived to the finals. Two of their 
teams, composed of Barbara Lind 
strom and Ruth Borgman, Lucy 
Frank and Phyllis Tesler, playeain 
the semi-finals, but were eliminated.
Klein and McKling were leading 
throughout but it was a tough fight. 
Theta Tau came through with their 
ten to one promise by awarding the 
top team a prize of ten dollars, 
while the boys that-placed second 
pocketd a five dollar second prize.
The consolation tournament for 
those teams eliminated in the first 
play off was completed last Thurs
day night when Mr. and Mrs. Jack 
L. Bowers won the booby prize from 
the competing team of Stanley 
Rosecrans and Webster N. Jones, Jr.
Choose 
your bank 
as you would choose a 
friend
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Member Fedenl Deposit Insurance Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

THX OASmaa TAKTIKTOMDAY, irVmBKh jj, t
ANDREW CARNEGIE
&twe.* Our founder, Andrew Carnegie, who gave a millro dolZsrs to an endow
ment rund jor our scnaoi zo get tt off to a good start. The writing above is his own handzmting and his oicm signature.
? '' Vs
***L v
Carnegies second t
i Mrs. Andrew Ccmgze, with President Hcmenchlag dur 
on the steps of tne Margaret Morrison Carnegie College. Camegze. founder, end Artkur Hamerscklcg, first oreszd 
sit zo the campus on Azrril 4, 1910.
OUR FOUNDER
Carnegie, Benefactor Extraordinary, Founds 
Institution With Million Dollar Endowment
Long before 1900 Andrew Carne
gie visualized an institution to fur
nish trained men to industrial 
America, but the idea did not crys
tallize until after he visited Heighley Institute in September ofthat 
year. On November 15, 1900, the 
trustees of the Carnegie Institute 
held a banquet at the Schenley Ho
tel in honor of our founder, and at 
the banquet Mr. Carnegie read a 
letter in which he announced a gift 
of one million dollars for the en
dowment fund of a technical school. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
was bora.
Five hard years followed, during 
which the site was selected, the 
ground broken; plans drawn up; In
dustries Hallour first building 
was raised, and Arthur Hammerschlag was appointed director. The 
charter class of 1908, 120 strong, en
tered Carnegie Tech on October 16, 
1905.
Amid the hammering, riveting, 
and sawing attendent on construc
tion, the first classes were held, and 
many of our traditions established. 
The Tartan and Thistle were organ
ized, the first fraternity formed, the 
school colors chosen, and the first 
athletic head appointed. Women 
came to Carnegie in March, 1906, 
and attended clases in Industries 
Hall
In September, 1907, the women 
moved into the newly-built Mar
garet Momson Carnegie College,
18
i -
im
Below: Andrew Carnegxe leaving his c
and an era of rapid expansion be
gan. Classes were first held in En
gineering Hall in 1S03; the Pine Arts 
Building was finished in 1912, and 
its two wings added in 1916. Also 
in 1912, Machinery Hall had its 
humble beginning in the form of a 
lowly, one-story power house. Ad
ministration Hall was added in 1914. 
The latest important addition was 
made in 1924 when the gymnasium 
was built. Between 1914 and 1924 
the mens dorms and the Commons 
(the latter was then called the 
Langley Aeronautical Laboratory) 
were added to the campus.
During this period, the courses 
were expanded to cover four years 
and were placed on a collegiate 
basis. In 1912 the quality of instruc
tion and material warranted a 
charter of incorporation and Car
negie Tech received the power to 
confer degrees. The name was 
changed from Carnegie Technical 
Schools to its present name. The 
school grew so that, during the 
World War, about 10,000 people 
were trained here. By the end of 
the war, 3,600 soldiers and civilians 
were under training on campus.
August 11, 1919, was a sad day 
for Tech, for on that date Andrew 
Carnegie died. He had visited the 
school five times and was known 
and loved by both faculty and stu
dents.
By this time the school had 
grown so that the Carnegie Corpor
ation agreed to grant $8,000,000 to 
the school in 1946, if Tech could raise 
$4,000,000. This was for making 
some desired changes on the campus 
for which funds were inadequate.
Dunng Dr. Bakers administra
tion a series of international con
ferences brought some of the 
world s outstanding scientists to 
Tech. Also during his career here, 
the College of Industries was con
solidated into Engineering, and 
Tech became the only school m the 
country to confer degrees in print
ing.
In September. 1935, Dr. Baker re
tired due to ill health, and Dr. Dohertv. our present executive, suc
ceeded him m Marcn. 1936.
The TARTAS is indebted to Mr. 
Larry Miller jor the use of these 
pictures.

---------------------------------------------------

TOMftT, WOyntBKB U, 1942THE CABJtEOII TARTAH
Obstacle Gotirse 
Fully Completed
Through the efforts of Mr. Met ses, 
CptShaeffer, Mr. Keck> and Mr. 
Sctulli; the Scoiid half of Gamegies 
famedobstacle course has been 
completed. The completed cours 
includes 24* obstacles, is about 3,000 
feet longand has a special 100-yard 
recognized military course.
Thc new jiart of the course, a di
rect continuation of the original 
course, starts with a dash down the 
track paralleling the old hydraulic 
lab. After a dash up the steep em
bankment behind Margaret Morri
son; the ninnei^ will reaeh their 
first' obstacle behind the thnis 
courts. This first obstacle will be a 
fourteen foot rope climb, but a new 
twist has been added. Instead of 
just sliding back to the ground, one 
will slide down only six feet and 
land on a platform. The eight-foot 
jump from the platform constitutes 
obstacle number two.
Next on the program is a sprint 
over the four terraces which will 
bring the runners up to the Cut. 
Here they will be confronted by a 
checkerboard, a series of short 
jumps that is designed for knee 
action. The next feature on the 
program is called a "Dodge." After 
going through another Jungle-Jim, 
one arrives at Forbes Street and the 
start of the 100-yard course.
This course, which is short but 
snappy, includes the following 
closely-spaced obstacles: a two and 
one-half foot hurdle; a four-foot 
fence; two feet of high dodges; a 
seven-foot wall; a two-foot crawlunder; a very special jump over a 
seven and one-half foot ditch that 
will be filled with water; and a bal
ance that will be 32 feet long and 
two feet high.
After the runners finish up the 
military course, they will run down 
to the tennis courts; near the ropeclimb, where they will walk 
through a 15-foot V shaped trough 
called a straddle. There is still a 
dash back down and around the 
track to the original starting point!
As one of the enthusiastic build
ers exclaimed, If they took all of 
the obstacles out theyed still have 
a terrific course. This place is a 
natural!
Meteorology Course 
Lowers Requirement 
To Include All Colleges
The Aviation Cadet Meteorology 
requirements have been lowered to 
include all colleges and univritSThe new requirementsfor Mete
orology training are as follows: .
Candidates for Meteorology train
ing must have corttpleted two years 
of college, specialized in the sciences-, 
or in engineering* and: must have' 
satisfactorily completed thorough 
courses in mathematics?, including' 
differential and integral calculus 
and physics, preferably to include. 
heat and thermo dynamics. Ags for 
this training are eighteen to thirty 
years, inclusive.
The only other Aviation Cadet 
ground duty training open at pres
ent is Engineering, requiring at 
least three years of engineering stu
dies. Ages are from eighteen to 
twenty-six inclusive.
How to Apply For Aviation Cadet 
Ground Duty training: application 
blanks may be secured from the 
Bureau of Placements, Hoorn 155 
Administration.*
1. Fill out application from W. D.,
A. G. O. No. 60.
a. Have it notarized.
b. Obtain parents consent if 
you are under twenty-one 
years of age.
c. Specify the type of Ground 
Duty training desired.
2. Send above application form
and following papers to:
Aviation Cadet Section
Military Personnel Division
O. D. P.
Headquarters Army Air Forcs
Washington, D. C.
a. Birth certificate (Baptismal 
record or other sworn record 
of birth will be accepted).
b. College transcript.
c. Three letters of recommen
dation.
Note: If your educational re
quirements are certified by Wash
ington, you will be notified to ap
pear at an appropriate Aviation 
Cadet Examining Board for phys
ical and moral examination. If you 
qualify you will be sworn in the Air 
Corps Enlisted Reserve.
cMecul *Jeck Refende Pnopiam
Photo by. BQ1 HnialandeT
Heading Civilian Defense on the Tech Campus are Dr. MartmChworowsky and Mr. Lawrence Miller.
Fashion Show To Be 
Sponsored By Plebes
Fashion-conscious fems, please 
note! Miss Francine Blum, stylist 
at Gimbels, and several of her mod
els are coming to the Carnegie Union 
Saturday, December 5, from 1:00 to 
4:00 to show Tech women the lat
est and smartest in college clothes. 
Besides the favorites in sportswear, 
date dresses and fonnals, the still 
useful grandmas flannel lingerie 
will be featured. The damsels of 
the freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison are the ambitious little 
creatures who are bringing all this 
luscious stuff to our campus.
Officers of the freshman nlass, 
who are also the heads of^&e com
mittees, are selling tic^cgt^to the 
laywomen (those ,-wJjo' are not in 
their class) for^twenty-five cen
times. They atfe: Helen Jaffurs, 
President in charge of the show;
- ~ :Vice President; and
Tech Sends Delegates 
To I. K. C. Convention
The. International Relations Club 
of Carnegie Tech is sendiag Eve 
Rabban, Social Work 43, and Agnes 
Aronson, General Science 45, as its 
delegates to the Middle Atlantic I. 
R. C. Conference to be held .on Fri
day and Saturday, December 4th 
and 5th, at Princeton University. 
Princeton, New Jersey.
. The topic i th conference will 
center around The United States in 
a New World. Round-table dis
cussions will be hld on such sub
jects as Our Latin-American Neigh
bors, Japan, China, . and the 
Southwest Pacific, Russia in the 
United Nations, The Future of In
dia, and The Problem of Ger
many.
Among those speakers who will 
address the convention are Dr. Ed
ward Meade Earle of the Prince
ton Institute for Advanced Studies, 
and Professor Clyde Eagleton, of
One Way Round TripCHICAGO .... $6.60 |9.90
30 Day Excursion  Leave Any Day, Return Any Day
OTHER LOW FARES
Bonnd 
One Way Trip
NEW YORK...................................................................$0.60 $11.80
Cleveland ....................................................................... 2.00 3.60
Detroit.................................................................... 4.40 7.9S
Columbus............................................... 2.90 4.95
Indianapolis .............................................................................. 5.0B 8.00St. Louis........................................................:.... 8.0B 14.75
Los Angeles ............................................. .................. 38.60 69.30
Through Express Service  No Local Slops 
For Further Information
TRAIL WAYS BUS DEPOT
1011 Liberty Avenue Plione GRant 5744
LnuBBcity. , M New York,University. __
HELP WANTED
All Day Saturdays and Monday Evenings
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 
IN WORKING
AT KAUFMANNS
COME TO OUR
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE ON THE 10TH FLOOR
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
FOR AN INTERVIEW
KAUFMANNS
FIFTH AND SMTTHFEELD

---------------------------------------------------

THI OAHHMfcS TKTATPIgDAY, ITOVntBM .IM
A Brief Moment With Gertie 
Reveals Stage Stars War Work
By Lucille Schniberg
Gertrude Lawrence was dressed for books and magazines and toothin charm and purple When we-said paste. and letterpaper and playing 
hello^ she was alsocombing her cards and all sorts of things to keep 
hair, ordering scotch for a party she isolated soldiers from being bored, 
was giving for the kids" in the cast, Pittsburgh has been wonderful 
to my boys, she enthused. Weve 
had to empty that barrel about ; 
eleven times already.
A quick glance afterwards by the 
reporter verified that; the barrel 
was sagging with packages.
Miss Lawrences tremendous en
ergy asserts itself toward more 
than' just Cape Cod soldiery. Shes 
one of the original members of the 
American Theatre Wing and has 
founded a branch of this big New 
York organization in Dennis, Massa
chusetts.
Though her schedule is piled up 
with war work, Gertrude Lawrence 
hasnt forgotten other kindnesses. 
From one of the mothers of the 
children in "Lady in the Dark 
comes the report that during the 
long run in New York, Miss Lawr
ence came to the theatre L nightly 
with wee presents for the young
sters in the cast.
When one meets Miss Lawrence 
one gets a peculiar shock. From the - 
nearly unbearable vitality of themurmering babytalk to a red portacontributions of any sort from the 
theatre-going citizenry. She beg:,
Compliments 
... of - - 
MEADOW 
GOLD 
DAIRIES
126 Denniston Ave. 
Pittsburgh,. Pa.
Fart Pitt Is the Place 
to Rest
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic. 6320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
<JleSie.ri. Mud. 9*i *lfouA, Ztfe!
Seniors Give And Take In Battle 
For Mud In Bowl, Place In Showers
ble radio, struggling into a sable actress therc isa curious delibera-coat, and earnestly discussing the tion ^ the woman. Not that she 
war work shes been doing moves slowly or tafc siowiy or ies.
As a reside, of Cape Cod, her sens nerv0us action; rather, it is a
particular mtere.i has been the definite feeiing of sobriety  thatsmall stations all around the Cape. she is keenly aware o what she is
For the eight or nine soldiers at doingi what she has to d0t and what
each of these stations shes been she do. It wasnt quite noticea-puttag a barrel in the lobbies of all ble on sta e during Saga of
the theatre she s been playing for jenny 
Miss Lawrence had heard that the 
Drama Department was presenting 
Tonight at 8:30 and wanted to see 
the shows. There wasnt time, of 
course (I believe there was a Red 
Cross meeting, a speech at the Mo
bile Unit, and a dinner engagement 
for our matinee afternoon) but she 
read some of the lines and groping
ly hummed some of the music.
About this time John Potter, pro
duction manager, and Darling, 
came knocking at the door.
Step right up, ladies and gentle
men, for the greatest show on cam
pusthe fight of the ages, the blitz 
of all blitzesCarnegie Tech's own 
Senior Ducking! Come right up 
and see all the sights! On one side 
we see the seniors barricading the 
top floor of McGill Hall, and on an
other the underclassmen forming 
for an assault. The air raid sirens 
(or reasonable vocal facsimiles) 
scream while water bombs pound 
the aggressors as they stand around 
the entrance to Boss Hall. Now we 
see the assault on a solid wall of 
seniors inside McGill Hall, water 
splashing liberally over the attack
ers. What is it all about? Well, la
dies and gentlemen, just read on to 
find out.
Midnight last Wednesday was set 
as the time for Senior Ducking, but 
the seniors got wind of the fact that 
it was coming off and joined forces 
on the top floor of McGill Hall. A 
little later, the underclassmen as
sembled spontaneously (about an 
hour and a half before midnight) to 
start the big brawl early.
One underclassman was trying to 
delay the fracas until the next night 
(Thursday) because the seniors 
seemed too well fixed, and heavy 
damage seemed imminent. There 
was a rumor that the seniors had 
piled up desks and chairs to effect 
the barricade, so, one by one, about 
four or five men went over to see 
for themselves. Just as your re
porter got a gJimpse showing that
the rumor was false, he was nearly 
trampled by the rush of underclass
men, who attacked a solid wall of 
seniors on the landing between the 
second and third floors. Water cas
caded down over the attackers and 
stairs, and the struggle beganone 
senior was grabbed from the multi
tude and tumbled down the stain. 
Water began to come incessantly as, 
one by one, the seniors bounced 
merrily down the steps, with from 
one to four underclassmen hanging, 
onto each of them.
Outdoors, the seniors were forced 
to the ground and hog-tied, then, 
carried into Boss clubroom, where 
inventory was taken. Among them 
was a Judas, a Benedict Arnold, a 
traitor. It was Ted Nierenberg, 
Business Editor of the Tartan, who 
was to get his with the rest.
Into the bowl went the procession 
that foggy night. There the seniors 
were herded together and a hose 
played on them until someone let 
a couple of them loose. Amid the 
shouts and fog, a black blob cut 
through the air and struck home 
with a splat! Mud-balls! And so, 
the dorm politicians got in practice 
with a little (?) mud-slinging. Those 
that didnt get mud in the eye fell 
and got it all over them.
One last note: contrary to the 
rumor around campus, McGill Hall 
did not float off and go down the 
Ohio River as a result of the inci
dentand the moral is Stop That 
Rumor!
Compliments
------of - - -
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER

---------------------------------------------------

tpmpy, wotjmbme u, imta* oxBBBoa tabTaj
Electrical Honorary 
Calls New Members
Last night. Eta Kappa Nu, the 
Electrical Honorary, held their an
nual initiation banquet in the Hotel 
Webster Hall. Eight juniors of the 
E. E. department officially entered 
the society after a ritual that after
noon in the club room of Machinery, 
Hall. They were: Leslie S. Frost, 
Robert W. Pogue, George Gallousis, 
Mannis ,E. Neumann, William H.; 
Shepard, Charles N. Goehring, Mil
ton D* Daniels'and Carl R. Olson.
Leadership, : personality, activi
ties, and scholarship, are the re
quirements by which the above men 
were selected. This year there are 
fifteen seniors in E. K. N. out of a 
class of forty-four. This represents 
an exceptionally high percentage of 
honor students for this class.
Professor Raymond T. Gabler, a 
member of the faculty, was also re
ceived into the organization in rec
ognition of his excellent work in 
this department.
Colonel George Fairley, Director 
of Public Safety of the city of Pitts
burgh, was the guest speaker at the 
banquet. The Colonel spoke to the 
entire group of twenty-three stu
dents and six faculty members and 
gave an interesting account of his 
many experiences in the field of 
electricity here and abroad.
Donate Your Stockings 
To Household Ec Drive
Dont be disgusted if one of those 
too frequent rumors has left you 
bare legged and desolate. At last 
in some small way, you too can de
fend your country. Wouldnt you 
be thrilled to know that an Amer
ican parachutist had landed on 
Adolphs mountain hideout all be
cause you had given your last silk 
stocking to the cause?
The Household Economics De
partment of Margaret Morrison is 
sponsoring a stocking drive to fur
nish much needed silk and nylon 
to the government. If you can 
spare a torn old stocking or three, 
just walk it up to the third floor and 
dump it in the scrap box located in 
the side hall.
Donate your runners to snag the 
axis.
Carnegie Day . . .
Continued from Page 1
Associated with the production of 
aluminum for more than a quarter 
of a century;-Mr. Jolly is a native of 
Western Pennsylvania. He attend
ed night school at Carnegie to study 
Mechanical Engineering while serv-u 
ing as a machinists apprentice inthe Pennsylvania Railroad shops. In 
1920- he became master mechanic at 
the Aluminum Company and four 
years was later promoted to super
intendent of inaintenah. In 1937 
/he became chief engineer and, direc
tor of purchases,. and.-two/months 
ago was elevated. to the vice-presi
dency. ;'V
He has supervised the designing, 
erecting, and operating of the 41 . 
major projects in the present alum
inum expansion program, a pro
gram which by the ndof 1942 will 
increase this countrys production of 
aluminum seven times what it was 
in the peak yrs before the -war. 
This year there are 392 scholar
ship holders in. the day school and 
62 in evening school. Thirty-seven 
students in the upper ten per cent 
of their classes and also thirty-seven 
holders of fellowships and teacher 
assistanceships were listed on the 
program. In developing the Carne
gie Day Program. it has been the 
aim of the committee to give as 
much recognition as possible to 
scholastic performance, whether by 
individuals or by groups. Scholar-' 
ship holders sat as a. body in the 
hall.
Three honoraries made their an
nual calls. They were Phi Kappa 
Phi, Sigma Alpha lota, and Tau 
Beta Pi.
Senior Interviews
On November 30, Carbide and 
Carbon Chemicals will have two 
representatives on campus.
The company wants Mechanical 
Engineers for Production Power, In
strument Control, and Machine 
Maintenance, Chemical Engineers 
for Design, Production, Instrument 
Control and Development, Chemists 
for Research and Development, 
Electrical Engineers for Instrument 
Control, andCivil Engineers for 
Structural Construction.
AwuHmcifUf.......
Thanksgiving Night
The Schenley lonrne-l"
and every Saturday night thereafter, 
featuring the music of
Billy Hinds and his Orchestra
? ? ? ? 10 P. M. ? ? ? ? 
Beginning 
Friday, December 4tli / 
Informal Dancing
every Friday night
Job Will Address 
National Meeting
Thomas Job, associate Professor 
of Drama at Carnegie Tech and 
author of Uncle Harry, recent 
Broadway hit, will take part in the 
annual! meeting of the National 
Theater Conference to be held Fri
day and Saturday, November 27 and 
28 in New York City. This confer
ence vfill be distinguished by two 
main themesthe relationship that 
exists or might exist between the 
professional and non-profit theatres; 
and the policies and objectives of a 
wartime theatre. Mr. Job will ad
dress the Conference in conjunction 
with the first of these themes.
The National Theatre Conference 
is madeup of fifty leading university 
and community theatres throughout 
the country. Both the Carnegie Tech 
Drama Department and the Pitts
burgh Playhouse are member or
ganizations. Speakers on the pro
gram in addition to Mr. Job in
clude Paul' Green, playwright, of 
the University of North Carolina, 
Antoinette Perry.
Maxwell Andersons play "The 
Eve of. St. Mark, was written es
pecially for the National Theatre 
Conference. This is an example of 
the relationship that will be dis
cussed at the meeting in line with 
the second theme of the confer
ences,- that of the policies and ob
jectives of a wartime theatre. Be
cause of this fact, the members of 
the Conference will attend Mr. .An- 
dersons play. After the perform
ance, Mr. Job and the other mem
bers of the group will go backstage 
where the stage-manager will ex
plain the mechanics of the produc
tion.
$1.00 per person (plus tax) 
Inoludlng midnight supper
Rservations 
Call MAyflower 0400
HOTEL SCHENLEY
- Cmplitneni f
ERTL BAKING 
COMPANY922 Second Avenue 
COurt 2815
Council Minutes 
The meetingwas'caUed to order at 7 20 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Hoppel, Sher, 
and Thompson. - 
COMMITTEE REPORTS Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of the elections held .on November 17, 1942: 
President of Engineering Senate: Rob
ert Galbraith. .Vice President of Engineering Senate; 
Charles Jones. . 
Motion carried.OLD BUSINESS Mr. Van Arsdell read the -proposed re
visions to the Student Council Constitu
tion. Included in the revisions-are pro' vision for proportional representation 
and the matter .of jurisdiction in campus 
activities. \
Mr. McDonald moved that Student Council approve:the changes made and 
-revise it in accordance with the. way' it 
was presented.No action -was taken; the" matter will be. 
acted upon later. NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell passed out information 
regarding Student Councils part'td Car
negie Day. 'Mr. Van Arsdell said that it has : been - 
suggested' that the Christmas Chapel be moved from December 15. to December 8. 
It was the opinion of th Council that it would be better to let the <&Sel'.re
main on the Original date. ' , i. 'Mr. Van Arsdell reminded Council com
mittee chairmen thatrepoits'' of tHeir ac
tivities must be handed to th Secretary ; 
on December 8,1942. 
Mr. Curry moved that any of the members of an organizationwhich givss an . 
all-school dance 'or prty^shall -be admit
ted free of charge. .Those, members will 
be selected by the organization.
Mr. Schatz moved that Mr. -Currys motion be tabled for at least one week 
and that the matter be acted upon next
Motion carried.Results of the election of Student Coun
cil officers are as follows;President...............Robert Galbraith
Vice President.........:.. Charles JonesTreasurer.................... James Byce
Secretary.................Elizabeth Beall
Adjournment
Respectfully submitted,LUCILLE ORB. Secretary.
Best Wishes
... on----
FOUNDERS 
DAY
- - - from
CITY ICE & 
FUEL CO.

---------------------------------------------------

TABTAK TPMDAY. ROYHBlK a^ ma
JieiteA. *7(1*1 Ue. Cdito*.
The Editor 
Carnegie Tartan 
Dear Sir:
A few months ago, when I reviewed^the first play, I was a little 
conceited by the way in which the 
Drama Department, both faculty 
and students, received the opinions 
of one so untutored in the ways of 
the theater; they apparently believe 
that it'is th perogative of their de
partment, and their department 
alone,' to comment publicly on their 
own handiwork. C^iven as the 
drama students are to hyperbole, 
their tales, taken at half face value, 
indicated that their faculty was 
prostrate with rage. The students 
themselves, assuming that the inter
loper had no knowledge of the intri
cacies of acting, designed to take lit
tle notice of the Tartans latest col
umn, save to read each review sol* 
emnly and without comment; with
out comment, that is, within ear
shot of either myself or those who
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MH.K SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores m the College 
District
>808 Forbes Street, Sqairrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
9880 Boulevard of the Allies
.  . Oh Dramats
could report to me.
Granted I have no knowledge 
of the aforementioned intricacies, 
wouldnt that be more of a help than 
a hindrance? I know nothing of stage 
composition or movement or all 
those technical subtleties which are 
lost to the layman, but I am enter
tained, or not, as the case may be, 
as a layman, and rnot as one of the 
initiated. In the past, the reviews 
were confined, as far as I can gather, 
to clucks of praise for the more tal
ented, and a kind word for the 
weak. I realize that not all 6f the 
performances, can be of a profession
al calibre, that the actors are still 
students, but, eveii as students they 
are outstanding, acceptable, or poor. 
A play must be judged as a whole, 
one player contrasted to or compar
er with another, the merits of one 
and the faults of the other discuss
ed; isnt that the purpose of a re
view? That has been my policy and 
will continue to be as long as I am 
writing for the Tartan.
I weary of this incognito, and I 
think the cloak of mystery wears a 
trifle thin; when I dispense with it, 
it will be of my own volition, and 
not through the efforts of those who 
said that J. B. could be forced to re
veal his identity.
Truly Yours,
J. B.
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
402-404 Pittsburgh 
Life Building 
PITTSBUBGH, PA. 
Atlantic 2340
Compliments 
... of - - -
ASSOCIATED EGG PRODUCERS
RECEIVING STATION 
Phone F Air fax 4848 1254 Stedman Street
North Side Pittsburgh, Pa.
Colonel F. T. Bass and Lieutenant T. J. Collum of Carnegie Techs 
Department of Military Science and Tactics review the current world sit* 
nation in Europe.
Theta Tau Initiates 
Nine New Members
Nine engineers were pledged in
to Theta Tau, national engineering 
fraternity, at the initiation cere
monies which were held this past 
Sunday night. Last night a ban
quet was held for the new members, 
at which Professor Martin P. Chworowsky spoke on The Engineering 
Attitude and Democracy.
The new members are elected on 
a basis of scholarship, personality, 
and a general interest in Engineer
ing. All pledges are required to 
carry gears and paddles.
The pledges are:
1. Jim Hovis
2. Bob Wenston
3. George Salvaggio
4. Ted Bellan
5. Bill Newton
6. Henry Rosenblum
7. Mannis Neumann
8. Earl Obringer
9. Bob Dodds
Recital Will Feature 
Gloria Siegles Rondo
Students in the Department of 
Music will present their second re
cital of the season on Sunday, De
cember 6, in the Exhibition Room, 
Arts, at 8:15 P. M. The program to 
be presented will be a varied one 
featuring both piano and voice se
lections.
One of the numbers to be per
formed will be an original composi
tion by Gloria Siegle, a senior piano 
major. This talented musician has 
written a wealth of material, among 
which have been many popular 
songs for Scotch and Soda produc
tions. Her latest work, which she 
will play, is written.in the modem 
idiom but adheres strictly to the 
first rondo form.
As Dr. J. Vick OBrien, head of 
the Music Department, said, It is 
modem yet musicala proof that 
such music can exist and still have 
form. The concert is open to the 
public; no tickets of admittance will 
be required.
Compliments 
... of - - - 
WM. SLATER & SONS
Raymond J. Slater
Funeral Directors

---------------------------------------------------

TofiSffAr, MvlMBEKtaita OABMati filtrar
Women Gr ads Join 
The Armed Forces
You have heard a lot about themen grads in the armed forces, but 
what about the women? They are 
doing their part too. Never let it be 
said that a Tech woman shirks her 
duty to her country! The most re
cent survey shows that there are 
five alumnae in officr training or 
full-ldged fftcefs with . the 
WAACS, six officer candidates with 
the WAVES, and four gradutes of 
the Nursing School in th nited 
Stats Army.
Those woiih who answered the 
call of the WACS are: Mildred
Barrett, Social Work 35; Lillian 
Dorsy, Drama 4 ; Bernadette Marlier, Arts Associate; Mary Louise 
Milligan, Secrtrial *32; and Mrs. 
Charlotte Shuman Raddin, P & D 
22.
Answering th beckoning WAVES 
are: Mary E. Cummings, College 
Grad Sccretaril '36; Elizabeth Leaman, Home Economics 34; Dorothy 
Piper, General Studies '42; Veron
ica Yolpe, Household Economics 34; 
Geraldine Weightmen, Home Eco
nomics 39; and Frances Wright, P 
& D 36.
Lieutenants in the United States 
Army are Nursing Science students 
Florence Grieve 39 (Mrs. T. Mor
row McLenahan) ; Opal Harned '39, 
Rosanne Martin 42, . and Rita 
Schmidt '40. Helen Tadowsky 39 
and Agnes Glunt 41 have enlisted 
and will be leaving with the West 
Penn Hospital United of Army 
nurses.
Edith Josphine James, Social 
Work 36, is with the Red Cross in 
Australia: and Florence Lutz,
Household Economics 22, is at Sta
tion Hospital No. 21.
Serving in social agencies directly 
connccted with the war effort is 
Ruth Buckwalter, S. W. r31, Assist
ant, who is Region Supervisor of U.
S. O.s operated by the YWCA in 
middle western, southwestern, and 
northwestern States, Emma Gar
vey, S. W. 30, is the Medical Social 
worker for the Red Cross at Lawson 
General Hospital, in Atlanta, Ga. 
Martha Slick, S. W. 32, is serving 
with the Home Service Correspond
ence of the American Red Cross in 
Washington, D. C.
Tau Beta Pi Calls 
New Officers During 
Banquet For Alumni
Tau Beta Pi will give its annual 
banquet for alumni and faculty 
members tomorrow at the College 
Club at 6:30 p. M. This year the or
ganization is honoring Professor W. 
Trinks, former head of the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering 
who is planning to retire. A. W. 
Robertson, Chairman of the Board 
of Westinghouse Electric and Manuracturing Company, will be the 
main speaker. Mr. Robertson has 
shown a particular interest in the 
Westinghouse Scholarship students at Tech.
Max Williams, former President 
of Tau Beta Pi, will turn over his 
gavel to DeWitt Lyon, who was 
elected to .head the organization, 
Friday, November 13. Other officers 
who were elected at the same time 
and will assume their new positions 
are: Vice President, John Lindberg; 
Treasurer, Harold Dickson; Corres
ponding Secretary, Robert Pogue; 
Recording Secretary, William Car
ter; Cataloguer, Marvin Goldberger; 
and Parliamentarian, James Rice.
Fashion Awards Offered 
. Tobe-Cobum School for Fashion 
Careers, in New York, has announc
ed that five Fashion Fellowships 
will be awarded to senior women in 
nation-wide competition. AH Tech 
senior women are eligible to com
pete in this contest. This school of 
fers classes in various fields of fash
ion, such as merchandising, dis
play, fashion advertising, and fash
ion coordinating.
A Letter to Seniors" containing 
complete information about this 
contest and registration blanks are 
put out by the school. A copy may 
be obtained in the office of Miss Vir
ginia Alexander, head of the Cos
tume Economics Department in 
Margaret Morrison.
On the Lighter Side by Art North
FOS THE INTERFRATERNITY 
FORMAT.
ALPHA 
DRESS 
SUIT CO.
Complete Rental Service of Mens Formal Clothes 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Best Wishes 
On Carnegie Day
- - - from  - 
CRAIG-FORBES PHARMACY
I Hear He Keeps Flunking Physical Education
Freshmen Entertained
Something new has been added! 
In order ta meet MargaretMorfison 
freshmeh infofrrially, Dr. -and Mrs. 
Watkins have invited them to a 
series of buffet suppers in their 
home on Darlington Road. In order 
to avoid overcrowding and confu
sion, the girls have been divided in
to five sections. Also invited, to 
these functions ate Miss Christilie 
McBride, Chairman of the Faculty 
Advisors, and Mrs. Edna Crarina, 
Class Advisor. Two groups have 
already enjoyed the hospitality of 
the Watkinses.-
STUDENTS!
9tiit8^Dre98fe5 CQw 
Cleaned and Pressed..
SlacksSweaters 
Cleaned and Pressed.
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street 
We CaU and Deliver
Compliments
- - - of - - -
G. F. fflGGENS 
COMPANY
HEATING 
Wabasli Building 
SOurt 5747
Coriipimnts
- - - of
THE 
AUTOMATIC 
CIGARETTE 
SALES CO.
929 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

: - - '' rag'TUHDAT,im
Tartan Wrestling Squad Shows Promise 
As Many Turn Out For Nightly Practice
the spot in their respective weight 
divisions might be mentioned. Sam 
West seems to hold down the numUsually an 
ber one post in the 125 pound class ?** a  wh deserves credit to , , _  .i . inform the people who he is andwhile Rhodes Trautman, the brothwhat he * in this particular
er of Woody, occupies first berth in case neither of these questions need 
the 135 pound division. There are be answered except briefly since 
two principal contenders for the 145 the man in question is known by 
pound class, the two being Doug 
Dobson and Mike Koutovas; while 
Eberly is holding down the 165 
pound division.
Promising to be one of the best 
. teams since its origin, the Tech 
 wrestling squad has been practicing 
regularly in preparation for its ser
ies of meets to begin February 
ninth. It is anticipated that the 
squad will meet local teams at the 
gym each night that the Junior 
Varsity doesnt have a basketball 
game to preceed the regularly 
scheduled varsity competition.
Last year only fifteen men were 
on the rooster whereas thirty have 
reported this season and of these 
there are* many outstanding wrest
lers. Coach Alexander seemed es
pecially enthusiastic over his heavy
weight contender, Larry Moorman, 
and the man who has given him 
plenty.of competition, Jim McCulloch. His other outstanding star 
seems to be veteran Woody Trautman, who wrestles in the 155 
pound class. Others who occupy
Max TTatmnm Performs Double Duty, 
Heads News Bureau And Basketball
, By The French
article is written ever, Maxie was game until the 
coach told him to get off the field be
fore he was killed. Nevertheless 
Maxie did play basketball and base
ball, although he admitted basket
ball was his weakest sport. How
ever, as far as interest was concerr.-
practically everyone on campus, 
and his activities are equally well 
recognized.
This congenial even - tempered
men are foremost contenders at the 
present time it is likely that others 
will be on top before the actual 
meets commence since practice 
meets are held every week to de
termine the winners in each weight 
division. At this present writing 
there are many new recruits who 
might very likely replace their su
periors in the near future.
Arrow HEADQUARTERSGREEN BROTHERS
440 Wood Street Downtown
Arrow Gordon Is B. S. 0. C.
ALWAYS in a top spot in caxnpna popularity 
polls is Arrows Gordon Oxford shirtwilt 
icgolar Tid bnlton-dowTi collars. Gordon fits NII 
perfectly, because it is it on the MHnga form-fit 
pattorn tthaft irmly, it cant elirrnfc more than a 
microscopic lTc, for it beais the Snfotutd label* 
AH for just a lijtn fee  $2JS0.
Arrow ties are swell bosom companions for 
Arrow shirts! SI up.
Although the above mentioned man has been basketball coach for 
the last ten years and for the last 
two years has been manager of the 
Tech news bureau. Needless to say, 
his name is Max Hannum.
Although few people would be
lieve it, Maxie, as the boys fa
miliarly call him, entered college in 
1916, worked on the Pittsburgh 
Press from 1919 to 1929, and has 
been at Tech for the last thirteen 
years.
Maxie has been married for many 
years; incidentally, his wife is quite 
sensational, according to reports re
ceived by this reporter. They have 
two children, one of whom is now 
playing basketball under the same 
coach that Maxie played under 
when in high schooL The school in 
question is Crafton High, where 
Maxie matriculated before entering 
our rival institution, Pitt.
Maxies whole life has been cen
tered around his favorite hobby and 
occupation, athletics. This inter
est started in high school, where he 
played football, basketball, and 
baseball. At the time he was learn
ing to play basketball, an incident 
occurred which is still remembered 
in Crafton. During a practice, the 
coach told Maxie always to shoot 
the ball for the nearest basket when 
he received it This was all very 
logical, since he played forward. 
However, when Crafton High met 
their first opponents of the season, 
Maxie was suddenly shifted to 
guard. On the touch-off the ball 
was tipped to Maxie who faithfully 
carried out instructions and made a 
superb shot which cleared the loop 
for two pointsto the opponents 
team!
Maudes athletic life at Pitt suffered considerably due to his weight. 
He tipped the scales at only 13c 
pounds which wasnt conducive *.o 
the rough and tough football that 
Pitt was playing at the time. HowBig Shirt on Campus
Coming to Tech in 1929, Max 
was installed as Publicity Director 
of Athletics. A review of his pre
vious activities indicates that he 
was just the man for this job. Be
sides participating in athletics, he 
wrote for the Pitt Weekly and from 
his freshman year to the time he 
came to Tech was associated with 
the Pittsburgh Press. Max worked 
up to the post of Assistant Sports 
Editor of the Press before relinguishing this post in favor of his job 
at Tech.
Basketball has been Maxie's 
prime interest, naturally, since he 
started as coach in 1932. Since that 
time his boys have twice won the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Conference 
championship, once in 1935, and 
again in 1939, the last year of the 
Conference. However, Maxie is not 
one of those do or die coaches who 
fight to win at almost any cost He 
>s interested in the sport as a sport 
and not just to establish an enviable 
record or a row of trophies.
ARROW SHIRTS
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUA&TEBS
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes ai Atwood
FRANK
MEN'S WEAR
OFEN EVEEY EVEHIHG 
5172 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL wt fCompliments
- - - of - - -
STEEL PRODUCTS 
COMPANY
202 Bradley Street McKees Rocks, Pa.
Pittsburgh, Pa. Telephone FEderal 3300

---------------------------------------------------

TUMDA.Y KOTOam M. IMS.
Skibo Cagers Victors 
Against Westinghouse
Whipping into shape for. their 
first game two weeks from this Fri
day, the Carnegie basketballers 
trounced the Westinghouse Appren
tices 46-32 in a practice encounter 
last Friday.
Led by sophomore George Marck, 
who garnered fourteen points, the 
Tech outfit spurted early in the 
third quarter and coasted to record 
the win. High man for the losers 
was Menase with four buckets and 
two foul tosses for his total of ten 
points. Coach Hannum started 
Showman and Marck as forwards, 
Brinn at center, Harry Smith and 
DeBortoli on the guard posts.
Westinghouse stopped this team 
with a tight zone defense and led at 
half time by 23-18. Unable to pen
etrate the zone Tech was forced to 
play conservatively throughout the 
entire first two periods.
When the East Pittsburgh switch
ed to a man-for-man defense, 
early in the third quarter, Tech 
moved in fast and proceded to put 
the game on ice. With Showman 
and Brinn setting the pace, via the 
old pass and break, Tech outscored the opponents 1 to 5 in this setup. 
At this point, Hannum rushed Sher
man, Meyer, Kelly and Culbertson 
into the fray; they gathered four
teen points in lightning fashion 
while the weary Apprentices pick
ed up a meager four. The final 
count listed Tech on a long end of a 
46 to 32 score.
This practice game revealed 
many things for future reference: 
Marcks uncanny shooting from all 
angles; Smith and DeBortolis long 
Tange "swishes; Showman and 
Brinn controlling both backboards 
as well as their stalwart offensive 
play; the racehorse speed of the 
second team plus its scrappy fight.
C. I. T. Iiilrnmural Table 
Tennis Season Underway
As of Saturday, November 21, we 
have the league standing of the In
tramural table tennis teams.
In League I, the Citcom team has 
so far put its irons in the fire by re
maining unbeaten till now. They 
have managed to defeat Henderson, 
Welch, and Scobell, and now look 
forward to a match with McGill. 
McGill up to this time also remains 
undefeated and the McGill-Citcom 
match will be a tough one for each 
team. McGill and Henderson will 
or may fight for the runer-up posi
tion in the last match on schedule.
In League II, the SAEs and 
PiKA's are unbeaten, and have 
good prospects of remaining so until 
they meet in the last match of their 
schedule. In League III, the un% 714c Cdit&i
Sports Editor 
The Carnegie Tartan
There is a lot of talk about drop
ping football for the duration, and 
substituting a course of setting-up 
exercises commonly called intra
mural sport . . . Where is the 
enemy met? And where is that 
fighting spirit developed in order 
that the team may win found? The 
setting-up exercises are good in 
themselves but boring, because 
there is no Saturdays climax and 
no sacrifice of personal indulgence.
Football is a game of . war, if ever 
there was one. It is toug"h, and neds 
every ounce of courage, determina
tion, and initiative in order to 
launch an all-out offensive to over
come the opponent when the going 
gets tough. The hours, days, and. 
weeks of practice preceeding every 
contest teaches the player the value 
of drilling.
The coaches re constantly study
ing the opponents in: advance and 
relating the findings to the team, 
just as officers study the enemy's 
strength and weaknesess, so that the 
energies and abilities can be direct
ed toward a final victory.
Football is a rehearsal of war. 
Tough, hard drilling, teamwork, 
quick split-second decisions, and all 
the other disciplinary factors which 
are the same as are found in the 
training of an army. Even if only 
the R. O. T. C. will be around next 
fall, intercollegiate football should 
find a place in their schedule. Look 
over the heores of today's war, and 
you will find that nearly all have 
had some part in football in their 
school days. ^
Most of us will be called to serve 
our country soon, and Ill be willing 
to wager that all those who have
An Editorial
Athletic Trends At Tech
By Don Watkins, Sports ditor 
To those of us who have been here at Tech for the four years since. 
1939, sports have gone through a rather marked transition. We have' seen - 
the emphasis go from varsity sports to intramural athletics and other, minor -.%j 
forms of athletic endeavor such as soccer, track, cross country^- swimming/ 
and even boxing. This has been notable due to the fact that immediately. 
previous to 1939 the most popular of all varsity athletics, football,, enjoy* 
ed a prime place in the attention of Carnegie students and offered much 
diversion to residents of Pittsburgh, a great many of whom were loyal fans ; 
of the Skibo grid squad.
What Causd This Change? r~
The transition which we have mentioned occurred very rapidly, and it ' . 
was with great dislike that many of the students watched it take place. 
Arguments such as: We aren't getting our moneys worth; It isnt good= 
publicity for the school; and Its nothing but a grind school, were voiced 
from a howling mob of dissatisfied students.
Nevertheless, the inexorable hand of the administration continued to 
change until our football and basketball teams drew only students and 
not-so-proud parents of the members of. the team. Athletic scholarships 
were withdrawn along with the incentive foragood players to attend Tech.
 1939, 1940, and 1941 proved to be gloomy years in the Carnegie sports an
nals. The various-teams were the laughing stock of outside followers of - - 
Skibo athletics and even the students themselves joined in the derisive cry. v 
School spirit, wihch seems to be inevitably tied up to athletic prowess,  
went from a deafening roar to a dead silence. Frequent exhortations from 
zealous members of the student body proved to little avail the condition of 
Tech sports and athletic interest. The whole situation developed into a 
vicious circle which got worse and worse and reached its climax m the 
basketball season of 40-41 when the hoopsters lost every encounter Gf the 
entire circuit. The losing strealc started by the team that year was earned. . . 
well into the next season, but the jinx was finally broken and. things beh 
gan to look up. Since that time, although the newspapers still like to use 
the Carnegie teams as victims of their satire, the athletic outlook has / > 
brightened until this year when Tech spirit was brought to a new high for 
recent seasons.
The Brighter Side
So far the picture has been one of almost total darkness. A great deal 
of good has resulted from this ostensibly sad transition. This good has 
been exemplified in the greatly increased interest in intramurals. The total 
adds up to a better sports world for Tech, especially in view of the recent 
swing back to a more normal athletic program:
The promotion of intramurals and theminor varsity athletics hassled 
to the inevitable conclusion of greatly increased participation in athletics.
A great number of students left their customary positions on the sidelines 
and transferred their pleasure from the vicarious to the actual This 
change answers many of the objections raised at the time the de^emphasizThe school did not turn into a grind institution nor.ing program began.
had a taste of this rugged game will did the students fail to get their money's worth,
be better equipped to serve the The Balance
Our belief is that the varsity side deserves a stronger position than it
now enjoys, but this should not take place at the expense of ^ the gains
made in other departments. Carnegie Tech should not allow its name to, be 
connected with scholastic enterprise alone, but should take its place with 
any other universities in the athletic world. This can only be done by 
boosting the varsity standing of the school. We dont want teams that will 
compare with the Big Ten squads, but we mould like to see our organiza
tions go into games as favorites instead of being eternally the underdogs.
country. And when the time comes 
to face the enemy, the often called 
"dumb football player will not be 
heading any retreats.
Thus, since it is obvious that foot
ball aids in our war effort,, the ad
vantages should be well considered 
by the school's officials before any 
steps to abolish it are taken.
(Signed) Virgil Cantini
beaten DUs have an important 
match with the orice beaten Tau 
Delts while the rest of this league 
will be a scramble lor the runnerup position.
Here are the list of the teams that 
are in the various leagues:
Lcage I League II League TO
Citcom Pi Kappa Alpha Alpha Tau
Welch Sigma Nu Omega
Scobell Delta Tau Delta Phi Kappa
Henderson Beta Theta Pi Tau Delts
McGill Kappa Sigma Theta Xi
Boss Sigma Alpha Beta Sigs
Epsilon Delta Upsilon
HAmatCHtif ttsT mom mu. zom
HO lUTKK HOW 0FCN YOU SHOKS IT
wHiSidttGiM
the INTIMATE GIFT thats 
ALWAYS APPROPRIATE
<^ISINGERSSHHi
For Her ^ For Him
^Ths Debutante aHununc The Msjofj
JPEN4 CUrbJJENKMSJfflCADES TrrsBUEcw
Pens of Best Makes$1 to 10 
Name Engraved Free on Pens Bought Here
PEN AND PENCIL REPAIRING
Greeting Cards, Tallies and Favors
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

THX OABimoa TABTAH"F Carnegie plaid
Don Palmers Orchestra To Play 
For Evening Council Dance Nov. 28
Defense Bond To Be 
Given As Door Prize
Evening Student Council has an
nounced the date of the Annual 
Thanksgiving Dance as November 
28th. This affair has become a tra
dition with the evening students of 
Carnegie Tech and is looked for
ward to with great anticipation by 
all who have had the opportunity 
of attending one.
No effort is spared by Council in
A1 Flanders Active 
As Eng. Treasurer 
And Social Chairman
You're liable to see him puttering 
around in Engineering, where he is 
a metallurgy major, or you might 
see him at the Union working on 
some activity. He hopes eventually 
to get his degree, for hes been com
ing to Tech for the last six years
The Carnegie Plaid
this years choice, we believe, will 
meet with the approval of all interchestra will give out with its 
unique style of sweet swing music,
of the trombone player. Don Pal
mer is well known to the dancing 
crowd which frequents the Pitts
burgh hotels and nearby country 
clubs and he is also no stranger to 
those of us on Carnegie Tech cam
pus as he has played for the last 
three Christmas Dances held by the 
Evening College of Engineering.
It has been decided by Council 
that instead of presenting corsages 
to the attending ladies, as has been 
the custom of many previous dances, 
a $25.00 defense bond will be award
ed to the holders of the lucky num
ber, and it is hoped that, in addiwill be that extra added attrac
tion which will bring out the 
crowd.
Thistle Hall is the scene set for 
this dance and, of course, the much 
discussed and well remembered 
crystal ball will be much in evi
dence to lend its brilliance in creat
ing an air of romance and mystery.
Of course, you all know that this
a Student Council Dance and the Havent you heard about rationing,
admission charge is to be $1.10 per 
couple, but the cost is a small item 
when, judging by past affairs, such 
a good time is anticipated. Show 
your school spirit! _ Bring your best 
girl, or beau, and enliven your hol
iday vacation with a really bang-up 
celebration.
Vacation For All
have a vacation so their poor brains 
will be able to get back into, the 
swing of things. Now dont get us 
wrong, Friday nights are more fun 
than a circus, and we are sure you 
have all been to. the circus at least 
once.
You see, thi6 is Thanksgiving va
cation so we are going to lay off. 
That means no school Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday.
The Plaid will be published on 
December 8 in its distinctive style.
Decorating Assistants Needed 
For Thanksgiving Jamboree
Robert C. Kins
Robert Lenlgan
NEW TWOSOME (and far from 
gruesome) Phil Boyle and Mary 
endeavoring to secure the best availr Jo Webershe calls him Bud . . . 
able orchestra for this dance and Bill Hurtt and his ladylove at the
dance. Bills waiting for a call from 
the Air Corps . . . The Ed Tiepels
ested in dancing. Don Palmers Orwere seen romancin in the dark
comers of the Black Cat . . . Fash
ion NoteOur Editor, the only gal
featuring the smooth solo renditions in the place with a corsagesuch
extravagance! Should have been 
orchids, fair editor, for the fun and 
entertainment last Friday night at 
the Bowling Party? . . . Who is the 
vivacious blonde attraction at the 
Roxarena?  Ask the man who 
knowsBob Poznansky . . . John 
Hundertmark proved to be worth 
his weight in gold last Saturday aft
ernoon to the decorating committee 
Scaling tottering ladders didnt 
bother him ... Is his face redand 
boy it should be!  That BRUTE, 
Bob King, is beating his wife again 
(at bowling of course) . . . Correc
tion  Not blonde but a lovely
tion to being a patriotic gesture, it brunette glamor puss with Ed Wil
liams at the shindig . . . Lenigan 
and Flaherty (methinks theyre go
ing steady) were lone rangers at the 
danceBob has been nursing a 
bruised hand ever since  Nobody 
seems to know how it happened  
not even Bob  he says! ... Al 
Cassanova Flanders has tech
nique, but plenty!He may be seen 
squiring not one but two girls
Al? . . . The Russ Lahrs latest 
bundle from heaven must be just 
about the right size to roast for 
Thanksgiving . . . Ted Hamilton 
had a priority rating with his very 
lovely partner at the dance  No 
wonder, they really cut a mean 
rug together . . . All of the boys 
are wondering if the lady in red,
_____________ _ Bill Bemus partner at the dance,
At last! A Friday night free for has a sisterOh Boy! . . .'The shi
ft date. Not that we all have dates; dents who generally go swimming 
if we do, we are just plain lucky, on Wednesday evenings had to take 
The Plaid workers are going to their baths at home last weekRea
son, no chlorine for the water . . . 
We understand that certain bowling 
alleys are bidding for Chuck Merrits' serviceshe did a nifty job of 
setting up pins for his fellow art 
students . . . Wonder what was so 
interesting to that group sitting in 
a circle with their heads together at 
the dancebet they werent talking 
politics . . . John Hundertmark, 
new member of the Plaid staff,
Now please dont worry too much, blushes a vivid scarlet at the slight"  ............ est mention of his name appearing
in printOh, Johnnie!
following his graduation from Carrick High in 1937. In addition to 
avoiding languages as much as pos
sible in high school, he played, of all 
things, the Oboe.
He spends his forty hours a week 
at the Irvin plant of the Carnegie Il
linois Steel Corporation, where he 
is the metallurgist working on tin 
mill complaints.
On campus this year he holds two 
important positionsnamely. Treas
urer of the Evening School of Engi
neering, and Chairman of the Stu
dent Council Social Committee. At 
the moment hes wracking his brain 
over turkey-less dance decorations 
for the Thanksgiving Dance (plug.)
For two consecutive years he has 
won insignia awards and last year 
he won the Activity Scholarship for 
the Engineering School.
On the distaff side, he enjoys 
dancing, but strictly in the style of 
Guy Lombardo or some similiar 
smoothie. Bowling and swimming, 
his favorite sports, also take up a 
good bit of his time, when hes not 
at the Greeks.
Incidentally, in case you didnt 
know, his name is Al Flanders.
Handbooks Gather Dust 
Come and Get Em
All that fuss about not having the 
handbooks at the time of registra
tion, and the handbooks are still sit
ting around waiting for the stu
dents to come and get them.
Maybe some of you students have 
never seen a handbook. You know 
they really should be called Handi-books 'cause they answer more 
purposes than enough. Engineers, 
they are a perfect place to keep 
those phone numbers. By looking 
in the handbook you can see just 
when anything is going to happen 
that iswhen and if it ever does.
Ah gee, come .over to the Admin
istration Hall and get your hand
book NOW. Theyre free  no 
chargegratis.
*7a ^Jhe. Cdiion
Space did not permit my answer
ing the letters printed in previous 
issues at the time they were pub
lished. The following should take 
car of the suggestion printed in 
the November 10 mite.
Evening Student Council has un
der consideration a plan whereby 
the Colleges of Fine Arts and In
dustries, in the event they have 
no eligible students when the final 
check is made this week, may be 
represented at Council Meetings.
The representatives, chosen from 
the active students in each eollege 
will be invited to sit in on the meet
ing and voice their opinions, but 
will not have the power to vote.
In fairness to all, and in oYd6r 
that Council may function with the 
support of all colleges, I believe this 
the only solution to the problem at 
hand.
As suggested, in a recent letter 
"To the Editor, to lower the stand
ards of eligibility, would be, in my 
opinion, contrary to the purpose of 
the organization. Council is, and 
should be, composed of ACTIVE 
students from the campus. There
fore, the one rule which must not 
change, and which is "gumming up 
the works" is that which states a 
student must have earned an Insig
nia Award.
There are many active students 
who should be considered to rep
resent their college and it is guar
anteed they will be selected through 
merit, only.
ti4(&s*itrA Jtaue*t
The Carnegie Union, perhaps the 
most delightful building on the cam
pus is the least used. The splendid 
facilities for an evenings entertain
ment include everything from pi' 
anos to ping pong tables. The hand
book, on page 65, lists these facilities in detail.
The students of Industries, Arts, 
Margaret Morrison, and Engineer
ing are encouraged to make use of 
this haven to further their enjoy
ment of campus life. Just as "all 
work and no play makes Jack (or 
Jessie) a dull boy (or skirt), the 
rigorous routine of working, school
ing, studying, and sleeping off the 
effects, is too taxing if no relaxa
tion such as the Union affords, is 
enjoyed. Lets say we all come., out 
and enjoy the above mentioned 
delights and were sure you .will 
find the fellowship enjoyed well 
worth the time spent. You will.flnd 
the hostess Mrs. Hespenhelde ;,and 
Mrs. Yon ready to lend a helping 
hand with a kind word.
