Faculty, Staff Unions, Pg.12
Free Gynecologist 
Set For Students
The Student Policy Committee, an 
k advisory group to President Cyert, met 
with the President and Dean of Student 
Affairs Earl Swank last Wednesday.
It was quickly agreed that the names of 
the Committee members, and advance no
tice of meetings and agenda be printed in 
the Tartan.
Dr. Cyert reported that the University 
was planning a bus shelter on the Warner 
V Hall side of Forbes Avenue at Morewood.
Drawings are now being made.
Two major items were discussed. The 
President and the Committee approved a 
plan by an ad-hoc gynecological services 
committee. The plan is a short term pilot 
project to assess the exact type and extent 
of gynecological needs among CMU stu
dents and to provide low cost gynecologi^ cal service. Students will visit two coopera
ting doctors, who will charge the Universi
ty ten dollars per visit. The University has 
allocated enough money for this year to 
cover up to 500 office visits. The students, 
who will have to make the appointments 
themselves, will be charged nothing for the 
visit but must pay laboratory fees and for 
prescriptions. While minor administrative 
problems remain, notably how best to en
sure confidentiality, the program should be 
in operation by mid-November.
Also discussed were the obstacles that 
some departments within Fine Arts, espec
ially in Music and Drama, place in the way 
of students who wish to participate in ex
tra-curricular activities. Consensus was 
reached that upon such a recommendation 
from Student Senate, Dr. Cyert would take 
up with the faculty a plan to prohibit the 
scheduling of courses from 4:30 pm to 
6:30 pm. Also to be included in the prohi
bition would be the old traditional assem
bly hour, which was Tuesdays, 11:30 am 
to 12:30 pm.
continued on page 19
* Admissions To 
Recruit From N.Y.
by Laurel Felix
The admissions staff of CMU has in
creased recruiting of students from areas 
such as the east coast, and Western Penn
sylvania. In order to inform prospective 
students about CMU programs and courses 
of study, there will be a series of open 
houses. On November 4 Fine Arts has a 
presentation, on November 11 Engin
eering, and Science and November 18 
H&SS. The students will also have the 
opportunity to have first-hand experience 
with computers, drama rehearsals and 
* other areas of Fine Arts.
Bill Elliot, director of admissions, be
lieves that in order to keep up the high 
standards of CMU, especially in Fine Arts, 
students will be sought out in the New 
York area, New Jersey, Long Island and 
Westchester. Three department chairmen 
will give presentations in many high 
schools to inform students about CMU.
* The hope is to build strength in Fine Arts.
The admissions staff will also play a 
large part in recruitment. The image of 
CMU will be promoted as a campus school, 
not as a downtown city college. They will 
also visit high schools and PH.Ds from 
GSIA wUl study the effectiveness of the 
program.* New brochures have been pub
lished in odder to give the high school stu* dent a feel for CMU, not just a description
A larger issue which was perceived by 
some was an official air of separatism with
in the College of Fine Arts. This was dis
cussed but no common feelings were 
produced.Pin Ball
MachinesRemoved
by Debbie Siegel
The recent removal of the pin ball ma
chines from the entrance of the Tartan 
Grill has lead to some controversy as to 
what plans may be in the future for renova
tion of the Tartan Grill. The Activities 
Board who has leased the machines from 
Food Service was ordered to move them by 
Operations. The Student Senate has objec
ted that they were never consulted and 
that the action taken will affect them 
financially.
Dr. Rutledge asserted, I am quite wil
ling to discuss the income from the pin ball 
machine. I see this asa financial gain for 
the Activities Board who will now gain full 
income of the pin ball machines which 
were moved next to the Wherrett Room. 
The location of the machines was inap
propriate and detracted from the major 
theme of Skibo. Many of those who used 
the machines were under 16, and it created 
a problem for the Tartan Grill management 
at closing time. Dennis Brandel, a member 
of the Food Service Committee, has point
ed to the fact, From the removal of the 
pinball machine and the juke box which 
will be replaced by 3 televisions and 3 
radios, there may be a loss of up to $5,000 
per year. Rutledge hit students in the pock
et book. Thats why theyre striking out.
vernment s control and deceiving of the people on the Vietnamese War.Ells berg At Duquesne 
Talks of Deception
by Gregory McKenna
On Wednesday evening, November 1, 
Daniel Ellsberg spoke at Duquesne Univer
sity. Duquesne was just one of his many 
stops on a tour being made to raise money 
for the ACLU and for the Daniel Ellsberg 
Defense Fund and, of course, to inform the 
public.
Dr. Ellsberg was introduced by JoePgh. Police 
I.D. Stereos On Campus
by Mark Field *
Operation Identification came to'CMU 
on November 1. Two officers from the 
number 6 station in Squirrel Hill, Arnold 
Kriss and Dave McNutt, were here to put 
identifying marks on students personal 
property. Everything from hair dryers to 
stereos to little clock radios was brought 
for labelling. The numbers which were en
graved will be kept in files in the CMU 
security office, in the Number 6 Station 
and in the main police station downtown. 
Officer Kriss feels the main value of the 
engraving process will be to deter thefts. 
All students are given a small sticker which 
states: All items of value on these premis
es have been marked for ready identifica
tion by the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. 
Kriss commented that no stickers will be 
given out to students unless they actually 
have the property labeled. He feels that 
sending out these stickers will have no 
meaning unless they are all backed up by 
total identification.
The master number for CMU is 6660. 
All pawn shops have been alerted to this 
continued on page 19
Hornig, Pittsburgh ACLU representative, in 
this manner: You-Daniel Ellsberg, have 
shown us that we, the public, must take 
responsibility for what the government 
does in our name. In his address, Dr. 
Ellsberg went on to do just that. For the 
most part, he related stories taken directly 
from his book The Pentagon Papers. 
Again and again Ellsberg emphasized that 
the United States did not enter the Viet
nam conflict with the best of intentions. 
He pointed out that, from Truman to 
Nixon, intervention was done and con
tinued with the understanding that we had 
no business in Indochina. From 1950 to 
the present, he indicated, our involvement 
there has been motivated by domestic 
politics. For any one president to lose 
Indochina would cost votes. And so. 
according to Ellsberg, each president stale
mated the war and passed the buck to the 
next administration. Were riot on the 
wrong side in Vietnam said Ellsberg, We 
art the wrong side; were the redcoats in 
Vietnam..
Dr. Ellsberg has appealed his conviction 
for espionage, theft of something valued in 
excess of $100.00 dollars (The Pentagon 
Papers), and conspiracy and is now waiting 
to see if the courts will grant retrial on the 
basis of evidence illegally gained through 
wiretapping. He graduated from Harvard in 
1954 with a degree in Economics and from 
then until about a year ago alternately 
served as an aid in Vietnam and a member 
of the RAND corporation. When asked 
why he released the Pentagon Papers, 
Ellsberg responded that I had no right to 
conceal such information from the public. 
Ellsberg had hoped to turn die public 
against our involvement in Vietnam W as 
to make escalation more difficult and help 
peace negotiations.
TrtojJ
November 7,1972 Volume 73 Number 9 
Photo by Greg Nickel 
Dr. Daniel Eisberg, procurer of the "Pentagon Papers", spoke at Duquesne on the go*
.Photo by Carl Grefenstette 
Bill Elliot tells of C-MU's new recruiting
policies through open houses.
of courses. This includes a better se
quence of information, only what is neces
sary according to the students interest in 
CMU, says Elliot.

---------------------------------------------------

editors note
Student Government elections are here again, or will be on No
ember 13 and 14. The majority of contests are for senate seats, and that 
nay be a good thing, for Senate in the final analysis is too often 
Reminiscent of a worm chasing its tail.
That fault rests squarely on the student body, roughly one seventh of 
hom voted in the last Student Government election. You must make 
iStudent Government work for you.
We today run the candidates and their answers to a uniform set of 
questions. Compare their answers, and keep in mind that any candidate 
vhose answers do not appear did not care anough about you to respond.
It might also be wise to vote against any candidate who circulates 
Vote for Me advertising or meaningless slogans. It is the candidates duty
o inform you precisely why you should vote for him/her. To do less is a 
\direct insult.
The initial tempest over the new parking rules was disturbing on 
[several counts. The histrionics of faculty and students reminded one 
omewhat of a spoiled childs tantrums.
More disturbing was that in this bastion of reason, this citadel of 
technology and systems analysis, no one seemed to realize that our 
marking problem was essentially the same as that which is strangling 
!downtowns throughout the country. No, adding more spaces is not the 
Answer, for that way the Detroit Reich and Interstate Khans will only 
pave over us all ultimately. Something different is called for.
One good step was the pool permit scheme incorporated in the new 
parking regulations, which made car pools more practical and desirable. 
Further progress was revealed in a TARTAN interview with Dr. Rutledge 
(10/24). He revealed that the Parking Committee was investigating car 
pool data banks and some form of contracted mass transit for CMU 
commuters. Such moves are worthy and deserve to be pursued expiditiously.
Strongly desirable is not continued individual transport but some 
relatively convenient mass transport. Strongly desirable are not more 
parking spaces, but parks behind Morewood and surrounding Skibo, and a 
fine grassy mall between the tennis courts and Fine Arts.
Steve Jurman
Editor in Chief....................Steve Jurman
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editor..........................Mina Gerall
News Editor...............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhans 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble
Features Editor ......................Dave Guida
Features Staff.....................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
.............................................Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Rick Werme, Nick Lardas 
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman 
Dan Goldstein
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders 
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Caywood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr 
Stephen Hamm 
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout.................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salv
Copy Staff ...............................Mina Geral
Sandy Preuhj
Sports Editor ...........................Jim Brogar
Sports Staff.................................Dan Bui;
D.R. Sullivan, Jeff Englunc 
Roger Gedde;
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editoria. 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie 
Mellon University. Telephone (412 
682-4557.
OF COURS WE BELl&ve IN FREEDOM OF SPEECH WE CA.ME HR W Pfc'MANP
THAT YOU SPEAK FREELY A&oUT YOl'tf SOURCES
Letters:
Editor:
Many of you undoubtedly look forward 
to the time when our generation will be 
holding power in the government. Students 
who are today calling for racial equality, 
womens liberation, and an end to war-- 
these students will be helping to elect 
Presidents, Congressmen, and Governors in 
the years to come. If we remain firm in our 
commitment to liberal ideals, the men and 
women we elect will make them reality. 
Any kind of change that great masses of 
people call for can come about. It takes 
only one thing--the votes.
Thats the meaning of democracy; you 
have to have the votes. Some of those who 
are skeptical of politics labor under the 
misconception that the system is stacked 
against the people. That just isnt the 
case. In the 1968 election, for example, 
about 43 percent of the voters voted for 
Nixon and 14 percent for George Wallace. 
Thats a 57 percent majority on the right 
wing of this country. We have to face the 
fact that the reason George McGovern is so 
widely expected to loose is simply because 
the mass support has not been evidenced 
thats needed to elect him. The people 
voted for Nixon in 1968, and for better or 
for worse, thats what they got. But thats 
the meaning of democracy. They got what 
they asked for, by voting.
The point of the disucssion is that its 
not the system that makes America fall 
short of what it ought to be. Its 
Americans. A democratic society can be a 
racist society if the people in it are racists. 
The way to change the country is to 
change the minds and votes of the public. 
It can be done. The older generation will 
eventaully die out. And if we want to we 
can bury some of their ideas with them. I 
dont know how many of them are going 
to die before they get to the polls today-- 
probably not enough. But its a start.
In the meantime if were going to bury 
some of those outmoded ideas, lets start 
now. Dont say youre apathetic-youre 
really not. Theres a worried farm worker 
in California who hasnt had anything to 
eat today. His life is partially in your 
hands. Theres a worried woman some 
where in America, whose son is fighting in 
Vietnam today. Her hopes for his return 
are partially in your hands. The one and 
only voice that has the power to over-rule 
the Defense Department and save his life is 
the voice of the people, en masse.
Dont turn your back.
In this country there are many ways one 
can protest. government policies that he 
doesnt like. You can carry a sign, join a 
demonstration, write letters, work for a 
political candidate. Now its far beyond my 
ability as a writer to persuade you to give 
up your own time to do any of those 4 
things.
But will you do the absolute minimum?
The election is today, the only chance 
for four years. Its not too early for our 
generation to start to do something for this 
country. Theyve given us a share of the 
power-lets take it. You may think that 
your single vote is insignificant...and it 
is...but so is Richard Nixons single vote. I 
And the chairman of the board of the 
richest corporation in America...his vote is 
insignificant too. For when the nation goes 
to the polls and registers one vote each, 
were all equal in our futility. And, there
fore, were all equal in our strength.
Neil Talenfeld
Editor:
An article appeared in the Tartan Octo
ber 31, 1972 stating: Rutledge Accused 
of Intimidation.
The article implies that Nasser and Yalenty are publicly accusing Rutledge of in
timidation and this is not true.
The writer has also misquoted me and 
many things I have allegedly said she must I 
have received from some other source.
The Staff Council is comprised of non
union staff personnel and would like 
nothing better than to have a good working 
relationship with Rutledge and other ad
ministrators and that article casts a shadow 
that is not truly ours.
Norman Yalenty \ 
Chairman, CMU Staff Council.
(One quote which appears to be Mr. 
Yalentys is indeed from another source, 
and for that ambiguity we apologize. All 
quotes however are accurate. - ed.)
Editor:
The brothers and sisters of Delta 
Gamma and Kappa Sigma would like to 
thank all those who contributed to our 
UNICEF Drive and thank the TARTAN for 
its support.
David Croupe
Vt

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972Page 3
AB Concert Committee 
Explained By Director
Commentary
Editor:
There appears to be a dissatisfaction 
with the Activities Board Concert 
Committee. 1 would, before defending it, 
like to point out that the concert 
committee is not the entire Activities 
Board. It is but one segment of a diver
sified organization that branches into films, 
lectures, videotape, plays, TGIF dances, 
and coffeehouses. The AB Coffeehouse 
Committee, for the information of Arnie 
Karr, TARTAN staff writer, is the group 
that organizes and puts on those multi
facetted happenings nearly every Friday in 
the Wherret Room. True, the Activities 
Board gets one third of Student Govern
ments allocations, but concert committee 
gets only one third of that. The other twothirds are spent on such things as the AB 
film program, which has had packed houses 
at every film this year, speakers like Rod 
Serling, who drew over a thousand people, 
and plays like A Midsummer Nights 
Dream, which drew over five hundred.
The Activities Board is also tender of an 
amount of money designated the Campus 
Programming Fund, which was set up by 
Student Government to enable other 
organizations to sponsor campus events. 
The AB, besides just allocating this money, 
makes available to the receiver its equip
ment, personnel and advice. It is through 
this fund that the AB helps make possible 
the MDC film program, Freshman Orien
tation, WRCTs Spencer Davis concert, last 
years CFP Pat Paulsen lecture, the 
YWCAs Lead-Off program, the upcoming 
Science Fiction Clubs science fiction fes
tival, and many other events. The Pro
gramming Fund Committee, by the way,^ 
will meet in Monday, November 13 at 8:00 
PM to review allocation applications for 
second semester. I advise all campus groups 
(student, faculty or staff) wishing to do 
programming next semester to attend.
Therefore, dissatisfaction with one 
segment of a large organization should not 
be basis for criticism of the organization as < 
a whole.
For some time now I and other 
members of the AB have been trying to 
improve relations between the AB and the 
programming boards of the other colleges 
of Pittsburgh, possibly leading to some co
operatively sponsored events. In doing so I 
have had opportunity to learn a little about 
the way that some of them operate. The 
Program Board of the University of Pitts
burgh gets a large amount of money from 
their student activities fee. Their method 
of redistributing their share of the money 
back to the students is to sponsor very 
expensive concerts and charge very little 
for admission, thereby generating a large 
loss. A number of these losses uses up the 
money and some of the 25,000 students 
get to see a few big concerts. For example, 
on January 13th Pitt is planning to get a 
group that will cost $12,000 and put them 
in the Syria Mosque. Therefore the concert 
will cost about $15,000. They plan to 
charge two dollars so that if they sell out 
they will lose $7400. They would like to 
do about three of these over the semester. 
This can be considered as one way of giving 
the money back to the students, but at 
most only 16,000 of the 25,000 students 
can go to these, providing only Pitt 
students go and each of these students go 
to only one concert.
The Activities Board Concert 
Committee, needless to say, does not pro
gram like this. First of all, the budget of 
the committee for the entire year is only
$7500, which makes any sort of setup like 
this impractical. The concert committee 
has tried to follow the policy of having 
three break-even pay concerts and three 
free concerts per semester. The pay con
certs would be medium price, range 
($3-5000) known groups and the free con
certs cheaper less known or as yet un
known groups. In this way a greater 
number of more diversified concerts can be 
provided to a greater number of people. It 
has been felt that this is a better way of 
giving the students more for their money. 
The basis of this, though, is that pay 
concerts must break even. If they do not, it 
tends to become impossible to do the free 
concerts. It would also seem senseless to do 
the free concerts if no one came to them.
When Mark-Almond cancelled for 
Homecoming the concert committee was 
left with less than three weeks to find a 
replacement. It was decided that bringing 
in a group equivalent to MarkAlmond 
was too risky financially because of the 
short amount of time and because WRCT 
wanted to do Isaac Hayes to raise some 
money. The decision then was to do a 
follow-up concert Saturday in the ballroom 
so that the student body could benefit 
from having two concerts that they could 
go to. A nominal fee of fifty cents was to 
be charged to offset the cost of the rented 
sound system. However, when an appalling 
fifteen tickets had been sold by Thursday 
the concert was made free, but still only 
300 people showed up. This was very dis
heartening to say the least.
The Activities Board Concert 
Committee meets every Wednesday at 4:30 
PM in room 33, Skibo and anyone is able 
to sit in on the meeting and voice his or her 
opinion. If the choices of the committee 
dissatisfy anyone they should go to the 
meeting and express their feelings.
The Activities Board has always found it 
repulsive to charge high ticket prices to 
events, but has also always tried to be 
responsive to the desires of the campus 
community. Because of this the concert 
committee is in the process of preparing a 
series of bigger attractions for second 
semester. Should the AB bring a bigger, 
more expensive name in, it would of 
necessity have to raise the ticket prices. As 
stated, it has been against AB policy to do 
so. However, being responsive to the whims 
of the campus, if this is so desired, so be it.
There are yet two more pay concerts 
this semester; Jacques Loussier for $2 and 
Mark -Almond for $2.50 and $3.50. Of 
course, everything depends on whether or 
not these concerts are successful, and this 
depends on the students themselves.
Ira Picker
Director of the Activities Board
DRAFT
Students born in 1952, whose Selective 
Service Lottery numbers are over 95, have 
been advised by Dean of Men Charles 
Williams to drop their student deferments 
Men in the 1972 First Priority Selec 
lion Group (men bom in 1952) with ran 
dom sequence numbers 96 and above are 
to be reclassified 1-H, said Williams.
Students wishing to drop their 2-S 
deferments should, according to Williams 
by about December 1. A sample letter is 
available in the Division of Student Affairs 
Office.
Student Senate: 
Arrested Development
by Stacey Kimbell
Where I come from, the"student govern
ment was run by five self procliamed elit
ists, two black militants and a chatterbox 
Chinese french teacher. The student repre
sentatives never knew what they were 
doing or what they would or could pull 
over on us at any given moment. In the 
long run they were productive. They ap
peased the student body and kept the cha
os to a minimum with the administration. 
That was high school. Well, welcome to 
college, the land of the same.
At the student government meeting on 
October 31, For my ten dollars, I filled a 
seat in the back, (highly inconspicuous) 
The first sign of disunity within the ranks 
came from a tall blonde boy with red 
cheeks who decided that he didnt like 
aristocracy in government, (not that I am 
above this, but it all did seem so very trite) 
He submitted a resolution to the senate 
suggesting that the student governmnet 
corporation be liquidated within the 
month. His entire resolution (at least 5 
pages worth) was bursting with finger 
pointing accusations. Reminiscent of High 
school. Next, there was a vote taken and
the same gentleman was slaughtered, re
minding the president and his colleagues 
they were still in the running.
The senate then approved WRCTs re
quest to file an application to become an 
FM station. Next on the agenda was the 
amendment that was going to prove to me 
how much real power the student senate 
has. This perticular amendment had to do 
with the student governments dissatisfac
tion with the Division of Operations. I had 
it all planned out, and Im sure some of the 
senators who really knew what was going 
on did too, that this amendment was going 
to suggest that the government attempt to 
fire one of the administrators in this re
gime. Perhaps Dr. Ron Rutledge. No such 
luck. I suppose you cant beat a dead 
horse. This grand amendment suggested 
that they make peace with the Division of 
Operations while proclaiming their dissatis
faction. Half of you dont know what Di
vision of Operations is anyway. Almost to 
the end of the story, I decided to leave. It 
was a dull meeting. They have meetings 
Tuesday afternoon at 4:30. The location is 
listed at the Skibo Information desk and all 
are welcome. Go, and see if it matters.
TARTAN Attacked 
For Inanity And Bias
Editor:
Although you and your prodecessors 
have often tried my patience in the past 
with your inane writing and your remark
able lack of regard for the student body, 
the recent issues of the TARTAN have 
surpassed any prior efforts to foist your 
opinions, recklessly and inconsiderately, on 
the readers of your newspaper.
I refer specifically to your treatment of 
John Bells letter to the Editor in the 
October 31st issue. It makes me chuckle to 
visualize some blackheart on your editorial 
board placing sic in parentheses after 
each misspelled word, thinking how clever 
he is, and how it shows the world how 
illiterate fraternity people are. Yet I see no 
such treatment given your Candidates 
Take Issue article, (presented as a 
service to TARTAN readers) which 
contains no fewer than 25 errors in spelling 
and grammar.
Yet this is precisely the treatment 
accorded any view not consistent with the 
views of the Editor and his staff. Either the 
article is slanted, or misprinted, especially 
if the article contains the words 
engineer, trustee, fraternity, or 
bookstore. Never have I seen so much 
editorializing in news articles as in the 
TARTAN, yet you have the audacity to 
mock a letter from someone criticizing 
your opinions.
If you value your reputation as a quality 
newspaper that presents points of view
without bias (except in editorials, of 
course), that adequately serves this campus 
community, it would be worth your while 
to reevaluate your priorities, both literary 
and journalistic. I am certainly not imply
ing restricting your right to express opin
ions, nor am I in any way intimating the 
repeal of the First Amendment, but merely 
adjuring you to exercise the power which 
you have been given wisely. Just as you on 
the TARTAN staff value your right to be 
heard, so should you respect the opinions 
of those not of your way of thinking.
Bob Zurawin
(An apology is in order to Mr. Bell, who 
was (perhaps unfairly) used for an 
example. But we have twice printed notices 
that letters must be literate and legible; Mr. 
Bell was singled out not as a fraternity 
representative, but as one whose second 
draft repeated the errors for which his first 
was rejected. (A pro-McGovern letter was 
also turned back to the writer; its errors 
were corrected).
Certain of your points are well taken. 
We sincerely desire reader feedback, and 
desire not to be intimidating. Editorial 
replies in the future will be limited to 
factual notes.
Other of your points are of dubious 
rectitude. We have back issues in the 
TARTAN office; please feel free to stop by 
and further discuss the matter. - ed.)
THIS WEEK
PERSPECTIVE: CMUfeatures
FRED GORMLEY of GAPtune in 
call in 
Sunday at 6:10
WRCT/9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
NOW AT THE BOOKSTOREFABULOUS 
SAVINGS ON HOLIBAY GIFT BOOKS
ThehStu dnPPoli c dyCP m,aoli
I-j si
^TTZ'J
vsrdgpTd
|6 JO1 triNS 
IRAII
R170. AMERICAN ROCK ART, By B. Brentjes. 83 
Photos & Drawings, 8 in Vivid Fall Color. The 
wonderfully alive hunting and fertility magic rock 
paintings of the Bushman, Bantu Berber. Hottentot 
and others. Pub. at $7.50 Only $3.95.
L631. ALL COLOR BOOK OF BIRDS. 101 gorge
ous illus. all in Full Color. The beauty and mystery 
of the world of birds, gathered into a lovely vol
ume of photos and text on common and rare birds, 
birds of prey, many more, their habits, nests, court
ship. migration, etc. 8'2 x ll1-!. Import Special Only 
$2.98.
L634. ALL COLOR BOOK OF GREEK MYTHOLOGY, 
by R. Patrick. 100 photos all in splendid Full Color.
The great artists of Ancient Greece captured their 
gods and heroes in art with force, humor and sen
suality, revealed in this beautiful volume of the 
myths and art of a wonderful era 8*4 x 1111. Im
port Special Only $2.98.
N947. ASIATIC MYTHOLOGY. By J Hackin and 
others. Sumptuously illus. with over 370 photos 
incl. 16 full-page plates in rich Full Color. Fascin
ating. detailed explanations of the strange, beauti
ful myth and legends of Buddhism, Yoga, Taoism, 
etc., revealed through incisive text and gorgeous 
idols, tapestries, etc. Pub at $12.50 Only $6.95.
R95. AUDUBON, HOMER, WHISTLER AND 19TH 
CENTURY AMERICA. By J. Wilmerding. 89 illus. 
incl. 60 gorgeous Full Color plates. Exciting collec
tion of American art by Inness, Stuart, Sargent, 
others, the Hudson River School, Federal Period, 
etc., plus biographies 9% x 12. Reduced to Only 
$2.69.
R162. THE BEATLES GET BACK. Never published 
in the U. S. before! 269 photos, 243 in stunning 
Full Color. Great photos of John. George, Paul, 
Ringo and Yoko Ono plus lyrics for Get Back, 
Dont Let Me Down, and super dialogue. Softbound Sensational Value Only $1.00
R96. Van Gogh, Lautrec, Gauguin: CEZANNE 
AND THE POST-IMPRESSIONISTS. 85 illus incl 
40 stunning Full Color plates. Beautiful paintings 
and drawings by the great artists of the late 1800 s 
incl. the Fauvists, Seurat, etc., with informative 
discussions of the artists lives. 9% x 12.
Reduced to Only $2.69
N332. COLOR TREASURY OF AQUARIUM FISH.
By E. Lodi Over 230 fish all in brilliant Full
Color. The gorgeous world of tropical fish from the 
bloodthirsty Piranha to the technicolor Neon Tetra, with full information on habits, care, a balanc
ed aquarium, etc Import Special Only $1.98
N333. COLOR TREASURY OF CATS AND KIT
TENS. By A Torregrossa. Lavishly illus. with 
photos, drawings, paintings incl. over 180 cats in 
beautiful Full Color The most exceptional value of 
any cat book ever publishedgorgeous photos, his
tory, habits, etc. 9 x 12. Import Special Only $1.98
N334. COLOR TREASURY OF CRYSTALS. By V.
DeMichele. 238 drawings and photos, 125 in splen
did Full Color. All the beauty and symmetry of 
crystalline rocks and minerals from precious gems 
to common but beautiful elementstheir structure, 
evolution and chemistry. Import Special Only $1.98
N335. COLOR TREASURY OF MODEL SOLDIERS.
By M Alberini. Over 875 model soldiers photograph
ed in vivid Full Color. Spectacular collection of de
lightful model soldiers from antiquity to today, lav
ishly illus., with fascinating history of the craft.
Import Special Only $1.98
N336. COLOR TREASURY OF MUSHROOMS 
AND TOADSTOOLS. By U. Tosco & A. Fanelli 
Over 125 beautiful photos all in rich Full Color.
Every size, shape and form of mushroom and toad
stool vividly portrayed, plus a wealth of informa
tion on poisonous types, myths and history, etc.
9 x 12. Import Special Only $1.98
N337. COLOR TREASURY OF RUGS AND TAPES
TRIES. By M V. Ferraro. 79 gorgeous photos and 
reproductions all in glowing Full Color Plus 52 
drawings and maps. Exquisite rugs and tapestries 
from the finest Persian craftsmanship to the bar
oque beauty of Louis XIV, plus highlights of 
their appearances in great works of art. 9 x 12.
Import Special Only $1.98
N338. COLOR TREASURY OF STAMP COLLECT
ING. By U. Tosco. Over 600 stamps photographed in 
jewel-like Full Color. Huge collection of beautiful 
and historic stamps from all over the worldEur
ope, Asia, Africa, U. S., the Pacificmake this 
large, handsome volume an invaluable aid to the 
collector Incl. information on history, value, etc 
9 x 12. Import Special Only $1.98
L62. The Complete Book of WORLD COOKERY.
Forward by A. Simon with 222 sumptuous illus 
48 in Full Color Invaluable collection of 2316 de
licious, authentic recipes from 45 countriesFrench 
Duckling Pate, Irish Soda Bread, Chinese Chicken 
with Almonds. Turkish Mint & Parsley Salad, Zabaglione, etc.all tailored for American kitchens 
Ong. Pub. at $15 95. New, complete ed. Only $6.95
N803. A COMPLETE GUIDE TO HOME SEWING.
By S K Mager. with hundreds of drawings. Every
thing you need to know about patterns and stitches, 
mending and remodeling, fitting, etc. Special Only 
$1.49
103354. The Complete Work of RAPHAEL. Over 
900 Illus. incl. 49 magnificent Full Color plates. 
The most beautiful, complete study of the great 
Renaissance genius ever published! All his paint
ings, drawings and architectural projects plus his 
poetry and life, discussed by leading art experts, 
in a massive. 13-lb volume to be treasured for
ever. 11 x 15. Pub. at $45.00. Only $19.95
N160. Pictorial History: DIAGHILEV AND THE 
BALLETS RUSSES. By B. Kochno. With 382 illus., 
70 in Full Color. Large, lavish volume depicting 
the splendor of the Ballets Russes and of the great 
dancers, composers and artists who created it: With 
hundreds of photos, posters, costume designs, etc. 
of and by Pavlova, Nijinsky. Stravinsky, Picasso, 
etc. 122x9%. Pub at $35.00. Only 9.95
N09911. DICTIONARY OF DISCARDS. By F M
Rich. Over 200 how-to-make-it drawings. A to Z check
list of over 800 scrap itemsmetal, paper, plastic, 
fabric, wood, etc.with 8000 useful things to make 
from them. Orig. Pub. at $3.50. New, complete ed. 
Only $1.00
173. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PAINTING: Painters and 
Painting of the World from Prehistoric Times to 
the Present Day. Ed. by B. S. Myers, 1000 Illus., 
220 in rich Full Color. The most comprehensive 
one-volume encyclopedia on painting ever publish
edevery movement, every great artist of East and 
West from the caves of Lascaux to Pop Artall pre
sented pictoriallv. manv in glowing color. Pub. at 
$14 95 Only $7.95
N258. Pennsylvania Dutch:FOLK ART OF RURAL 
PENNSYLVANIA. By F Lichten. 421 Illus. incl. 32 
pages in vibrant Full Color. Treasure-house of de
lightful hex signs, quilts, textiles, furniture, etc., 
revealing every phase of the colorful folk art. 91/ 
x 12. Orig. Pub. at $10.00 New, complete ed. Onlv 
$4.95
2556. THE FRENCH POSTER: Cheret to Cappiello.
By J. Abdy. 128 Illus., 16 in vivid Full Color. Su
perb tribute to a great age of the poster, incl. Lautrecs cafe work, the Art Nouveau posters of Sarah 
Bernhardt, etc. Pub at $7 50. Only $3.95
K39. GREAT MOVIE STARS: The Golden Years.
By D. Shipman. 450 photos. Every aspect of the lives 
and careers of Chaplin, Garbo, Gable. Monroe, 
etctheir great roles their great loves, lavishly illus. 
with scenes from hundreds of movies. Pub. at 
$10.00 Only $5.95
435. GREAT PRINTS AND PRINTMAKERS. Bv
H. J. Wechsler. The imaginative works of our most 
famous graphic artistsMiro, Picasso, Chagall, 
Braque. Daumier, Cranach, Durer, etc.artfully 
reproduced. 137 Illus., with 16 hand:tipped plates 
in Full Color. Orig. Pub. at $25 00 New com
plete ed. Only $10.95
N161. THE ILLUSTRATED HASSLE-FREE MAKE 
YOUR OWN CLOTHES BOOK. By S. Rosenberg 
& J. Weiner. Illus with hundreds of line drawings. 
A step-by-step guide to creating inexpensive, 
groovy-to-wear clothes for all sexes and sizes with 
instructions on tools, patterns, stitches, copying 
and Pub. at $7.95 Only $2.98
N842. JEWELRY THROUGH THE AGES. By G 
Gregorietti 400 illus., more than half in Full 
Color Sumptuous, beautiful volume covering 
the history of jewelry and ornament from an
cient times to the present incl. a table of prec
ious stones, their mineral content and coloring 
8*4 x 11%. Pub at $14 95. Only $7.95
L898. THE JOY OF EATING NATURAL FOODS: 
The Complete Organic Cookbook. New approach to 
good eating for health-conscious Americans incl 
more than 2,000 recipes for garden-fresh vege
tables. luscious home-baked breads, raw food menus, 
etc. Pub. at $6.50. Only $1.98.
1432. MASTERS OF MODERN ARCHITECTURE.
By John Peter. The great works and ideas of 70 
master architects of the world including Louis 
Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, Neutra, Gropius, Saarinen, Mies Van Der Rohe others. 
Over 225 vivid reproductions capture the beauty of 
the original structures. 9% x 13. Orig Pub. at $15 00 
New, complete ed. Only $5.95
L194. METAL CRAFTS IN ARCHITECTURE. By
G. K Geerlings. With 277 photos & drawings. An 
important work, long out of print, representing 
metalwork, ancient and modern, in architecture 
and interior decoration with historic examples in 
Europe and America. Full of practical ideas for 
motifs and designs. Each melai in a separate 
section 9 x 12. Orig. Pub. at $10 00 New complete 
ed. Only $4.95
Rll. MRS. BEETONS COOKING IN COLOUR.
Lavishly illus. in Full Color The classic cookbook 
of England, with hundreds of recipes in practical
 ? t I
! Cit*
\ ^ Justri
terms, updated to include modern advances in re
frigeration, etc., and gorgeously illus. with photos 
of Steak and Kidney Pie, luscious fruit desserts. 
Upside Down Cake, etc Import Special Only $5.95
N641. FLEMISH PAINTING I: The CENTURY OF 
Van Eyck. By J. Lassaigne. 112 beautiful hand-tiff-* 
ped reproductions all in Full Color. The sudden 
flowering of art in 15th-century FlandersVan der 
Weyden, Christus, the searching portraits of Van 
Eyckrevealed in gorgeous, oversize volume of 
extraordinarily fine reproductions and authorita
tive text. 9*4 x 132. Orig. Pub. at $32.50. New, com
plete ed. Only $15.95
N673. BRUIGIL. By R. L. Oslavoy, 54 plates all in 
robust Full Color, 14th century peasants and farm
ers at work and play as portrayed by the earthy 
Flemish master, incl. his biography and expert ap
praisal. Orig. Pub. at $5.75. Only $3.98
N722. BOSCH. By R. L. Delevov, 54 plates all in 
brilliant Full Color. Extraordinary reproductions 
of Boschs fantastic, haunting paintings, plus bio
graphic and critical commentary. Orig. Pub. at 
$5.95 Only $3.98
N724. CHAGALL. By L. Yenturi. 53 plates all in 
delightful Full Color, flying horses and a fiddler 
on the roofwarm entrancing paintings by the beloved 
artist, with the story of his live. Orig. Pub. at $5.95 
Only 3.95
N725. REMBRANDT. By O. Baneich. 56 supurb 
Full Color plates. The pinnacle of the Dutch Ren
aissance-luminous paintings by a great master of 
world art, plus biography, and critical commentary. 
Orig. Pub. at $8.95. Only $3.95
N727. PICASSO. By M Reynal. 65 photos reproduced 
in faithful Full Color The art and life of one of the 
creative giants of the modern world, revealed in 
pictures and incisive text. Orig Pub. at $8.59 Only 
$3.95
N728. MONET. By D. Rouart & L Degand. 52 
plates in lovely Full Color. The beautiful, serene 
paintings of one ofthe first Impressionists, plus 
his life ani his significance in the spectrum of art. 
Orig. Pub. at $8.95 Only $3.95
N787. MIRO. By J. Lassaigne. 50 stunning Full 
Color plates. Simultaneously innocent and surreal, 
with a fresh, striking use of colorfine reproduc
tions and critical analysis Orig. Pub. a{ $8 95. 
Only $3.95
N723. PAUL KLEE. By N. Ponente. 54 fine repro
ductions in Full Color Klees world, full of delight 
and symbolism, revealed in his paintings and in 
sparkling text. Orig. Pub. at $8.95 Only $3.95
N637. ROUAULT. By L. Venturi. 58 fine Full 
Color plates. The techniques and artistry of stained 
glass transmuted into powerful paintings, collected 
with complete critical and biographical data. Orig. 
Pub. at $8 95. Only $3.95
N668. VAN GOGH. By C. Estienne. 55-hand-tipped
plates in stunning Full Color. Van Gogh's turbulent, 
ardent visions of burning fields and brilliant star
light. reproduced with extraordinary fidelity in a 
fine volume of pictures and text Orig. Pub at $8.95 
New, complete ed. Only $3.95
N00922. SONNETS OF SHAKESPEARE. Introd by 
R. O Ballou, with the famous Temple Notes. Illus. 
All 154 of the greatest sonnets ever written, collect
ed and bound in beautiful simulated leather with gold 
stamping. Extra Special Value Only $1.00
10217X. 78-Card Deck: THE TAROT. Printed on 
coated stock in vivid Full Color. Unlock the sec
rets of past and future with the Tarotbeautiful, 
complete deck plus instructions for spreading and 
reading the cards. 2% x 4*2. Special Only $3.95
N595. How Things Work: TECHNOLOGY. Ed by
Dr J. Bronowski with Sir Julian Huxley & others 
Over 650 illus , many in Full Color. Lavishly illus. 
volume explaining all the wonders of communi
cations. atomic power, metallurgy, building and 
engineering, etc. how they work and their im
pact onour lives. 7% x 10% Pub. at $8 95 Only $3.95
N261. TIME CAPSULE HISTORY OF TEE WAR 
YEARS. 7 Vols. of the TIME CAPSULES 1939- 
1945. in 1 Vol. Over 600 Photos & Maps. A history 
of the war years condensed from the pages of Time 
military campaigns, outstanding personalities, home 
front, sports, fads, science, art, medicine, movies 
and book reviews, etc. 1632 pgs. Orig Pub. in 7 
Vols at $27 65 New, 1 Vol. Only $6.95
8928. TRAVELERS BOOK OF COLORFUL PHOTO
GRAPHY. By V Philips & O. Thomas Magnificant 
Bookevery giant page in Rich, Full Color! The 
400 Color Photos show the scenic treasures of 15 
countries including U S A , Greece, France, Scandin
avia, Great Britain Packed with Natural Wonders. 
Ships, fountains, bridges, people at work and play, 
etc. Valuable information and suggestions to im
prove your own travel photos. 10'-4 x 13%. Pub at 
$20 00 Only $6.95.
K275. A TREASURY OF JAPANESE WOOD BLOCK 
PRINTS. By S. Kiluchi. Sumptuous 10*4 x 13% for
mat with 96 Full Color pages  1500 monochrome 
illus. Traces 250 year history from frankly erotic 
forms through masterpieces of Utamaro, Hokusai 
and Hiroshige. Comprehensive text explains the deli
cate changes in this fascinating art form Pub at 
$17 50 Only $9.95
N10105. Treasury of THE WORLDS BEST-LOVED 
POEMS. 109 lovely poems, lyric and dramatic, from 
the Bible to Whitman, gathered in a beautiful vol
ume bound in simulated leather and stamped in 
gold. Extra Special Value Only $1.00
N00965. Walt Whitmans LEAVES OF GRASS. In
trod. by W. Lowenfels. Illus. The finest parts of the 
great American poet's vibrant hymn to life, in an 
exquisite edition with simulated leather binding 
and gold stamping. Extra Special Value Only $1.00
K442. THE WORLD OF MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
By A. Kendall. 150 pictures, incl. photos, drawings, 
paintings, sculpture, woodcuts & musical scores, 32 
of them in color. Beautiful volume showing musical 
instruments through the ages and how they have ap
peared through history: who played them and how 
they are played. 8Vi x 11V2. Import Special $3.95
M4775. W. C. FIELDS AND MAE WEST. The iras
cible, irresistible Fields in The Temperance Lec
ture and The Day I Drank a Glass of Water plus 
the great Mae West singing Come Up and See Me 
Sometime, Slow Down and six more sensuous songs.
Pub. at $4.98. Only $1.98
S4776. Original Voice Tracks plus Poster: THE MARX 
BROTHERS. Three of the funniest men who ever 
livedthe inimitable Groucho, Chico and Harpoin 
riotous, zany passages from the sound tracks of 
their most hilarious films. With 17 x 23 poster. Pub. 
at $5.98. Only $1.98
R137. THE CANDLE BOOK. By C. Laklan. 39 Photos, 
3 in Full Color. The complete quide to candlecraft; 
how to design, make and decorate them for parties, 
holidays, flower arrangements and sale Orig. Pub. 
at $3.50 New complete ed. Only $1.49.
L33. MOORE. Over 70 Photos, more than 40 in rich 
Full Color. The work of a great contemporary sculp
tor: Henry Moores strong yet tender family
groups, expressing in stone and bronze basic hum
an feelings and relations. 93 4 x 12 1/2.
$9.95 Value. Only $3.95
1951. CHAGALL. By F. Mever More than 1250 
illus., including 35 tipped-in color plates. Huge, 
definitive biography by Chagalls son-in-law re
vealing his many accomplishments in addition 
to the many facets of his paintings, such as stain
ed glass, murals, theatre decor, ceramics, book 
illustrations, prints, drawings, etc. Includes com
plete illus. catalog of his works. 776 pgs , 8 3 8 x 
117 8. Pub. at $35 00 Only $15.95.
102080. MICHELANGELO THE PAINTER. By
V. Mariani. 121 Illus. incl. 108 gorgeous Full Col
or plates. Published under the auspices of the Ital
ian National Committee to Honor Michelangelo, 
this magnificent volume contains all of Michelan
gelos art, from the designs, sketches and paintings 
to the great frescoes of the Sistine Chapel. 524 
pages. 10 1/4 x 11 Pub. at $75.00 Only $19.95.
N642. FLEMISH PAINTING. From Bosch to Ru
bens. By J. Lassaigne & R L. Delevoy. 112 handtipped reproductions all in gorgeous Full Color.
The tremendously vital art of the Flemish Golden 
AgeBosch, the Bruegels, Van Dyck, Rubensbrought together in a splendid, large volume with 
authoritative text. 9 1 2 x 13 1 2. Orig. Pub at $32 - 
50 Only $15.95.
446. PAUL KLEE. By W. Grohmann 430 Illus., 
plus 40 hand-tipped, Full-Page. Full Color Plates. 
The life and work of one of the most inventive 
geniuses of modern art; his humor and insight are 
still an important influence in art and design to
day. Complete illustrated catalog of Klee's work 
included. Orig Pub. at $25.00. Only $15.95.
N786. DUFY. By J. Lassaigne. 55 hand-tipped 
plates all in Full Color. The delightful world of 
color and charm of Dufv s paintings, revealed in 
excellent reproductions and vivid biographical and 
critical commentary. Orig. Pub at $8 95. Only 
$3.95.
N785. LAUTREC. By J. Lassaigne. 49 stunning 
Full Color hand-tipped plates. The brutal clarity 
of Lautrecs vision of Parisian night life displayed 
in a stunning volume on his art and life. Orig; 
Pub. at $8.95 New. complete ed. Only $3.95.
N685. MATISSE. By J Lassaigne. 57 hand-tipped 
plates all in Full Color. Brilliantly colorful works 
by the creator of Fauvism, one of the most inno
vative artists of modern times, plus biography and 
illuminating criticism. Orig Pub at $8 95 Only 
$3.95.
N686. RENOIR. By D Finjart. 55 hand-tipped re
productions all in Full Color. Luminous nudes and 
pastoral scenes beautifully reproduced with bio
graphical data. Orig. Pub at $8.95 Orly $3.95.

---------------------------------------------------

CommentaryTHE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972Page 5
Cyert and Flaherty: 
Both Deserve A Chance
by Craig Collins
A few years ago Joseph M. Barr left the 
Office of the Mayor of the City of Pitts
burgh no longer its mayor. Moving into the 
vacancy was a brash, outspoken (fill in 
your own cliche) maverick named Peter J. 
Flaherty. Preaching honesty, austerity, and 
controversy, he kicked Pittsburgh into gear 
after it had been idling for years. Needless 
to say, he made enemies. He also made 
progress.
y Ten years ago, everyone was heralding 
the onset of the Renaissance. Wasnt it 
great that U.S. Steel was plannign to build 
a new triangular office building to brighten 
the skyline? And wasnt Gateway Center 
beautiful, with all its windows and KDKA 
television banners eyeing the heart of the 
city? And Point Park: there was now a nice 
place to have a picnic, rally, or mugging, 
. right on the historic riverbanks. Pittsburgh 
 was really moving then, or so said the poli
ticians of the time. Who cared that the 
traffic situation was deplorable? Who cared 
what effect the cobblestones and potholes 
had upon the shock absorbers of Pittsburgh 
drivers? What did it matter that a new 
bridge stopped in the middle of a river, 
inviting drunken drivers to race off the end 
 of the span and land on the opposing 
shoreline? Of what significance were those 
matters? Pittsburgh was moving, man!
Now, however, we look back and can 
see the whole picture. It wasnt the city 
which was progressing but its corporations. 
After the U.S. Steels and North American 
Rockwells moved into their new buildings,
where was the growth? Toward the end of 
the last decade, most of Pittsburghs future 
development lay in a field of mud north of 
the Allegheny. This was the proposed site 
for the proposed stadium tentatively 
named David L. Lawrence Memorial Sta
dium. And every month the proposed cost 
went up a tentative million bucks.
And then ...
Peter J. gets moving, Pittsburghers panic 
as he lays off city workers to save money. 
The employees gripe. Flaherty (pro
nounced Flaugh-her-ty by KDKA newsman 
Bill Burns) becomes a household word, 
used in every conceivable manner by each 
person. City Hall is stripped on many of its 
luxuries. Pete himself sacrifices some of his 
own comforts for ths common cause. 
Later, Flahertys name graces public waste
baskets, a plea for Pittsburghers to keep it 
clean For Petes sake. The field of mud 
develops into Three Rivers Stadium, and 
baseball is actually played there. Travelers 
on the Bridge to Nowhere find a route to 
the North Side via asphalt rather than 
through the air. Commuters to the down
town area note the new paving on Fifth 
Avenue, Pennsylvanias version of the Mer
cedes-Benz test track. Flaherty musters up 
his Public Works department and tries out 
one-way routing on Fifth and Forbes. Tax
payers begin to realize that the Mayor is 
basically in favor of their interests as 
Skybus and its financing are investigated.
Pittsburghers in general are finding Pete 
responsive. He hasnt always been right, 
but hes tried to be.
Miles from City Hall stands a University
like many others, plagued by financial dif
ficulties. It too had had a renaissance of 
sorts. A new library had been constructed, 
along with a new cafeteria/activities center, 
administration building, and engineering 
building. Later a science and computer cen
ter was added, with a proposed dramaticarts complex in the hopper. But the struc
tural renaissance at this university ended 
with the money supply. Enter a new pres
ident, Richard M. Cyert, from the Summer 
of 72. Austerity as a philosophy drifts up 
Forbes Avenue from the Mayors office 
and settles in the bowels of Warner Hall. 
The new President goes to work.
Cyert, like Flaherty had, lays off several 
employees. The University, like the unions 
and taxpayers did, initially protests his 
moves. Cyert, just as Flaherty had scrapped 
a proposed convention center as being too 
costly, lays the plans for the drama com
plex to rest. More static builds up. Cyert 
offers to discuss the issues with students. 
Few present themselves to be heard. These 
few, however, find him responsive. He 
hasnt always been right, but hes trying to 
be
This is not a political endorsement of 
the Mayor. Neither is it intended to be 
propaganda elevating Richard Cyert to the 
role of The Academic Savior. It is merely 
an observation which notes that, as time 
passed, people realized Peter Flaherty was 
not content to sit in a swivel chair watch
ing the city go deeper into debt. Instead, 
he took action which he believed to be in 
the sincere interests of Pittsburgh. So it is 
with President Cyert. He too is finding the
going rough at tirst; most ot his early de
cisions seemed to satisfy no one. But six 
months is hardly a long enough period in 
which to judge the effects of his decisions. 
In time, the students of Carnegie-Mellowed 
will hopefully see the long-term benefits of 
his moves and not just the negative aspects.
This writer, for one, has faith. The stu
dents of the Fine Arts must begin to re
ceive their just due. The student as custom
er must find that he is not the victim of a 
flagrant rip-off. As each situation and con
flict arises, it must be settled to the satis
faction of all who make up the University. 
This is the way it must be.
Satisfaction will come, eventually. The 
President has shown his willingness. Now 
we must let down our defenses and show 
ours.
So be it.
Pregnant?
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us  we will help you.
AMERICAN
FAMILY
PLANNING
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
fanytime)
V>
Public Interest Research Group
PIRG is a non-profit, non-partisan organization dealing with 
such public concerns as consumer protection, housing problems 
and tenants7 rights, racial and sexual discrimination, environ
mental quality, etc. Professional social and physical scientists, 
lawyers and others will be hired to guide the research efforts; 
students who conduct the research will, in addition to gaining 
experience, in many cases receive courses credit for their work. 
Results of the research will provide the data necessary for tak
ing effective action.
Students in 28 states have begun to form PIRGs. Several, includ
ing those in Oregon and Minnesota, have already had substan
tial success in solving public problems. At the University of 
Pittsburgh, plans for 6 PIRGrelated courses (including Mass 
Communication Law, Control of Non-prescription Drugs and 
Additives, Urban Problems: Housing) have been finalized. The 
cross-registration program makes these courses available to 
CMU students. Additional courses are in the initial planning 
stages here, at Pitt, and at Chatham.
On the statement of account for the spring semester, a space will be provided for the inclusion oi 
a voluntary contribution to WP: PIRG (Western Pennsylvania Public Interest Research Group, 
the PIRG in this area). With your contribution of $2.00, the PIRG will be able to begin the con
structive action on the public problems which concern you.
wCa ,uuhShCD,o hDfCae,ShCD, ASCP hD Syt rECffhkt Ca WahSt SC .Isqb kC dyhUC IDfCae,ShCD VtAHF
T

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
Computation Center News
into effect Nov. 1, 1972. Changes from the last
IBM 360/67 TSS
Base Charge
Connect Time
General TSS Class R 
Class S*
Class T**
HTT-APL
MTT-TYPESET-RUNOFF-RJE
$l/custno/mo.
$4.50/hour 
$10/hour 
$25/hour
$. 25/hour 
$. 25/hour
Off-Line Storage 
Page Requests (no.
of requests) 
Printing
Print Job Surcharge 
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
Read Tape Command
$.0005/page/day 
$.000005/hr. CPU 
time/request 
$.01/page |
+ $.0006/line 
$.25/job 
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$10/command 
+ $.001/record*
(There is no 
charge for jobs 
printed on the 
customer printer)
CPU Time
Conversational:
Public MTT-APL-TYPESETRUNOFF-RJE $180/hour
Class R + Private KTT $150/hour 
Class S* $270/hour
Class T** $A20/hour
+Batch:
Class A $225/hour
Class B $150/hour
Class C $110/hour
Class D $75/hour
Class S Command $2/command
Class T Command $5/coranand
Card Input $.001/card
Card Input Surcharge $l/job
(There is no surcharge on decks read in 
by the customer on the card reader.) 
On-Line Storageton-migratable $.015/page/day
Migratable $.007/page/day
$5/request 
$.01/page i 
$.0012/line 
$l/mount 
$7.50/request
Special Print Train 
Printing by Special 
Train *1
Tape Mounting 
Special Ribbon Mount
with special print train 
Special Ribbon Mount $10/request 
without special print train 
Tape Storage $.50/tape/month
(1 mo. increments)
Tape Drive Use $10/hour
(1/4 hr. increments)
Tape Library Entrance
Fee**
THAW Command 
THAW Later Command 
Use of Unlined 
White Paper 
Virtual Memory 
Conversational
$2/entry 
$2.50/command 
$.50/command
$5/request
$.01/page hour 
$.01/page hr. batchBatch****
?Class S - higher priority conversational CPU Time only. $2 Surcharge/command.
**Class T - higher priority conversational and compute-bound CPU Time. $5 Surcharge/conanand. 
***A11 tapes must be entered in the tape library. If a reel is submitted for a job
and then returned to the customer, the library entrance fee ($2) and the tape storage 
fee (.50) will be charged for each submittal. 5
****Page hours batch  page hours x CPU Time (hours) 
fPage count is by page eject or every 66 lines.habitation time
WAT?TV, PLC & PLAGO
CPU Time
Compile Time
Up to 2 seconds $180/hour
Over 2 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour 
Execution Time (3 sec. max.)
Up to 1 second $180/hour
Over 1 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour
PDP-8 TSS/8
Printing
A pages or less 
Over 8 pages 
Card Reading
128 cards or less 
Over 128 cards
$.02/page 
$.08/page
$.0005/card 
$.001/card
Base Charge 
Connect Time
No charge Storage $.002/segment(256 words)/day
$.25/hour CPU Time $9/hour
-fPlease note that Batch, classes formerly designated Ft F and A have been changed 
to A, B and C, respectively.
Reporting Batch System Bugs
A mechanism for reporting WATFIV, 
PL/C, and PLAGO system bugs has been 
devised so that system maintainers will 
have sufficient information to track down 
system-related problems and affect fixes 
where needed.
If you have a WATFIV, PL/C, or 
PLAGO program that either gives program 
interrupts or fails to perform a statement 
properly, you are requested to submit your 
program for analysis by the proper system 
maintainer.
To submit your program for analysis, 
make sure that your deck is set up as 
follows:
1. The first card should be:
\J\J BATCH SYSBUG (where denotes re
quired spaces)
2. The next few cards should describe the 
problem as exactly as possible in a few 
statements. You may also request the 
routing of information when the problem 
has been fixed. Each of these cards should 
have an asterisk (*) in column one.
3. Then insert your deck exactly as it was 
when the error occured. All BATCH 
cards other than the BATCH SYSBUG 
card should be removed from your deck.
4. The last card should be:
\t\J BATCHEND
EXAMPLE OF DECK SETUP
\AJ BATCH SYSBUG
* GIVES PROGRAM INTERRUPT 6
* PLEASE CALL EXT. 999 WHEN FIXED
SBEG1N SZ00HU99,SECRET 10
(PLAGO PROGRAM AND DATA) 
^wBATCHEND
It should be stressed that the Com
putation Center is not providing a de
bugging service for student assignments, 
but rather a method to track down system 
errors in the WATFIV, PL/C, and PLAGO 
subsystems. Since most system problems 
require several days to repair (depending 
on their severity), you should seek an alter
nate method to avoid the problem in your 
program.
Using Teletypes in Half-Duplex Mode
If you use a teletype, you can now enter 
your TSS password as part of the LOGON 
command without compromising the 
security of your password. This is done by 
pressing the CTRL (CONTROL) key and 
B. Any characters typed after this con
trol B and until the next control B will 
be sent to the 360, but will not be printed 
at the teletype.
For example, you type:
CTRL CTRL v___ LOGON HU00, T heS t uhddd
to logon as customer HU00 with password 
XYZ and account number X777.
The 360 will receive:
LOGON HU00,XYZ,X777 
but on your teletype, it will appear:
LOGON HU00,TBfrB,,X777 
where 'fB records the points at which you 
enterd control B.
This new facility was made possible by 
the recent insertion of a PDP-11 computer 
as an interface between terminals and the 
360.
This change does not apply to 2741 
terminals. Since 274 ls are already in half
duplex mode, the device itself does the 
echoing.
Rate Schedule
The following rate schedule went 
schedule are marked with arrows.
Student Accounts for TSS/8
A monthly allocation of $5.00 is 
available to CMU students who wish to use 
TSS/8, a general purpose time-sharing 
system on the PDP-8 computer. This allo
cation is separate from the $1.00 per 
month already provided for WATFIV. 
PL/C. and PLAGO.
TSS/8 is less expensive than the 360. Its 
facilities include two conversational 
languages (BASIC and FOCAL), Text 
Editor, PDP-8 Assembler, Loader, and Con
versational Debugger.
To use the PDP-8, you must leave your 
name at the Computation Center Office, 
5216 Science Hall. Within a few days, you 
will be joined to the system and should 
return to the office to find out your 
account number and password. You will 
then be able to log on.
The system is used conversationally 
through the teletypes marked PDP-8 in 
the back of the teletype room, or through 
remote terminals by dialing 687-5730. The 
PDP-8 is up 24 hours a day, seven days a
week.
The two reference manuals have been 
ordered by the bookstore and will soon be 
available for $2.00 each. They are Intro
duction to Programming and Pro
gramming Languages, published by Digital 
Equipment Corporation.
WATFIV Subprogram Libraries
Customers who use WATFIV in a TSS 
general task may call previously compiled 
subprograms that they have stored in a 
partitioned dataset named WATLIB. 
However, there has been some confusion 
about the way to call subprograms when 
more than one are stored in a single mem
ber of WATLIB.
To use any of the subprograms stored in 
a single member of WATLIB. die whole 
member must be loaded. The only way to 
load the member is to call the first sub
program stored there.
Details of storing both source and
object code in WATLIB are included in 
CMU Documentation TSS Subsystem-1, 
WATFIV.
Self-Service Terminal Installed
So that customers can save time and 
money when they print a dataset, a selfservice terminal has been installed in the 
I/O counter on the third floor.
Customers who use this terminal will 
save time since they wont have to wait for 
their output to be printed, burst, and filed. 
In addition, the self-service method is 
cheaper, since the print surcharge is elimi
nated.
They can also use the facilities of TYPE
SET to examine their output to make sure 
that it is correct, and then use the new 
terminal if they decide to print it.
The new terminal can also be used to 
display the contents of the batch work 
queue.
Complete instructions for using the 
terminal are posted beside it.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 7
0
Job Surcharge 
CPU Time - Class D:
CPU Time Used
0-1 minute
1-2 minutes
2-4 minutes 
4-10 minutes 
10-24 minutes 
24-48 minutes 
over 48 minutes
UNIVAC 1108 EXEC II 
$l/job
Charge
$420/hour 
$7/first min. + 
$12/first 2 min. 
$17/first 4 min. 
$23/first 10 min 
$30/first 24 min 
$60/first 48 rain
$300/hour/each additional min.
+ $150/hour/each additional min. 
+ $60/hour/each additional min.
+ $30/hour/each additional min. 
+ $75/hour/each additional min. 
+ $150/hour/each additional min
Class A: 2.0 times Class D
Class B: 1.3 times Class D
Class C: 1.1 times Class D
PRINTING*, PUNCHING, CARD INPUT AND TAPE HANDLING 
charges are the same as for the 360. At present, 
there is no charge for tape drive use on the 1108.
?There is no print job surcharge for jobs printed at the customer printer, 
customer is responsible for retrieving his output from this printer.
(see 360)
The
PLOTTER - CALCOMPHYBRID EAI 680/PDP-9
Job Surcharge $l/job
Plotter Use $2/hour
Plotter paper (12" vide) $.02/inch 
Colored Ballpoint $2/job
Liquid Ink $10/job
Felt Tip Pen $3/job
(There is no charge for mounting the 
standard plot tape for plotter output 
on either the 360 or the 1108.)
UNITREC - Duplicating and Listing Service
Computer Use:
First shift weekdays
Second and third shift 
weekdays, weekends, 
legal holidays 
Patch Boards 
Strip Recorder Paper
$20/hour (1/4 
hr. increments)
$10/hour (1/4 
hr. increments) 
$l/day 
$.05/inch
Printing $.04/page
(Jobs submitted at the customer card reader
are printed at the WATFIV printer.)
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
Card Input
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$.001/card
Other Charges and Services
Account Number
Creation of New Accounts
Addition of Customer to Existing Acct
Reallocation of Funds Bet n Accounts
Locker Storage*
$2/account number/month 
$5 + $l/customer number
$2/customer number 
$l/transfer
$3/Fall Semester; $3/Spring Semester; 
$3/Summer; $5/Full Year 
Programming Consultation $3 1/4 hour
(Limited use only. Non-occasional demand will be referred to Programming Services.) 
Programming and Engineering Service* $10/hour and up
(Limited availability. Rate will be based on personnel involved.)
Acoustical Couplers* Approximately $300
Teletype Purchase* Approximately $650
(Requests for maintenance or information about purchase of teletypes should
be directed to the Computation Center, Ext. 195) <-----
Maintenance of Teletypes*(Model 33 only.) $10/hour + materials
Special Handling $5/request/minimum
(Spe cial requests will be honored whenever possible. A $5 minimum will be charged for 
any request honored, and up to $25 may be charged without consulting the requester.) 
PDP-11 Paper Tape Reader $5/surcharge; $10/hour (1/4 hour increments)
Tape Cleaning $2.50/tape
Tape Cases* $3.25 - available in Science Hall 5216
Available from the Bookstore*: 2400*magnetic tapes for the 1108 and 360/67;
DEC tapes for the PDP-8, PDP-9, and PDP-11; teletype roll paper; and teletype ribbon
be used for these services. Any other source may be use.I.*CMU computing funds cannot 
1108 Network
A connection exists between the 360 
and the 1108 which enables the 360 to 
send jobs to the 1108 and enables the 1108 
to send output to the 360. This connection 
is usually called the 1108 network. It 
enables an 1108 customer to take advan
tage of the facilities available on the 360 
for conversationally editing and submitting 
his jobs and examining his output.
These facilities include:
1) correction of typing errors by back
spacing over the characters in error
2) positive acknowledgement that a job 
has been submitted
3) ability to examine output at a 
terminal and avoid printing it if it is wrong.
The network also enables an 1108 cus
tomer to rid himself of the inconveniences 
associated with card decks, e.g.:
1) no need to find or rent a place to 
store card decks or carry them from office 
or dorm to the center and back
2) no waiting for a keypunch
3) no waiting in line to use the card
reader
4) no need to recover from read checks 
and feed stops on the reader
5) no waiting for output to be printed, 
burst, and filed.
TYPESET, a TSS subsystem for text 
editing and remote job entry, can be used 
for creating and editing jobs conversa
tionally. The low cost of TYPESET 
connect time ($.25/hour) should make the 
complete substitution of on-line storage for 
punched cards feasible. (Complete docu
mentation on the TYPESET system is 
available at the bookstore.)
An 1108 job submitted through the net
work would begin with a BATCH 1108 
card, which would be followed by the 
1108 job itself. To submit such a job to the 
1108 from TSS or TYPESET, a customer 
need only issue the EXECUTE command. 
Output from the job will be routed 
according to the seventh and eighth 
parameters of the RUN card.
For printed output, routing is specified 
by the seventh parameter of the RUN card. 
The default value for this parameter is 
PR4, the 1108 machine area printer.
Specifying PR1 directs output to the cus
tomer area printer.
Two other values, which can be 
specified to send printed output to the* 
360, are: P23, for which output is printed 
on the 360 printer in the machine room 
and filed in the customer area shelves; and 
360, for which output is stored in a TYPE
SET dataset named PRnnnn, where 
nnnn is the sequence number assigned 
by the 1108 to your job. You can load this 
dataset into a TYPESET buffer to look at 
your output, and then print it on the 360 
line printer by issuing the command:
LIST PRnnnn,PRTSP=EDIT 
The listing can also be printed from the 
LIST terminal on the third floor service 
counter by specifying TYPESET after the 
dataset name, i.e.:
PRnnnn TYPESET customer number 
account number EDIT 
The listing can also be erased at any time 
before or after it is printed.
For punched output, routing is specified 
by the eighth parameter of the RUN card. 
If this parameter is not specified, punched 
output is sent to the 1108 punch.
Two other values, which can be 
specified to send punched output to the 
360, are: C27, for which output is punched 
on the 360 punch in the machine room; 
and 360, which specifies that the dataset 
containing the punched output is executed 
on the 360. When punched output from 
the 1108 is used as input to the 360 in this 
way, it must begin with a BATCH, dataset, 
or LOGON card. Any number of jobs may 
be submitted in the same punched output 
dataset as long as each begins and ends 
with the proper control cards. Thus, an 
1108 job can be used to queue one or more 
jobs on either the 360 or the 1108.
A short document entitled New Print 
and Punch Destinations for 1108 Jobs is 
available free at the service counter.
Using the Tektronix
Customers who wish to use the Tek
tronix graphic display terminal should first 
go to the Computation Center office, 5216 
Science Hall, for referral to a member of 
the programming staff. After demon
strating some knowledge of TSS and 
plotting, they will be authorized to use the 
Tektronix.
Any authorized customer can get the 
Tektronix key from the operator on duty 
in exchange for his student ID card.
The Tektronix, which was installe-.l 
recently in the teletype room, has the same 
operating schedule as the 360: from 
0000-0400 and 0900-2400 Monday 
through Friday; from 1000-1800 Saturda}. 
and from 1000-2400 Sunday.
For additional information on the Tek
tronix, see the October 3 Computation 
Center News.
New Interpreter Characters
The character set on the interpreter in 
the keypunch area has been expanded to 
include eight BCD special characters. The 
new characters are the equal sign (=), 
comma (,), dollar sign ($), period '(.), 
apostrophe (), parentheses (), and asterisk 
(*)
The interpreters character set also con
tains the digits 1-9 and upper case letters of 
the alphabet.
However, these changes are not 
sufficient to allow the interpretation of all 
the EBCDIC special characters.
Plotting Facilities Expanded
As a further expansion of the plotting 
facilities available to Computation Center 
customers, a Hewlett-Packard plotter has 
been installed in the teletype room on the 
fifth floor of Science Hall.
This plotter is used in conjunction with 
an ordinary teletype, which communicates 
with the 360 just like any other teletype. 
The plotter acts as an extension of the 
teletypes printer. When the teletype 
receives properly formatted ordered pairs 
of numbers, it can convert them into 
motion of the plotter pen.
Information on proper data format is 
summarized on a plastic card that slides 
out from beneath the plotter. Basically, the 
data must be in the form of ordered pairs 
of positive integers with values less than 
9999, and with the first number of the pair 
separated from the second by at least one 
space.
The plotter begins accepting data after 
receiving either the command PLTL (for 
plot lines mode) or the command PL TP 
(for plot points mode). Plotting is termi
nated when the plotter receives the 
command PLTT. Each command or set of 
data points must be on a separate line.
The Hewlett-Packard can make plots 
ranging in size from 5x754 to 8x15. Cus
tomers can write their own programs to 
provide the plotter with commands and 
continued on page 20

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
Student Qovemment Candidates
almost twice the number of organizations 
as when that fee was instigated. And. of 
course, the cost of living has gone up. 
Increasing the fee by $5 (thus raising the 
bill price from $1250 to $1255 a semester) 
would provide a 50% increase; which 
means a 50% increase in activities available 
to students!!
Dennis Brandi 
Graduate Constituency.
The most critical issue on campus is 
whether or not Carnegie-Mellon University 
can remain a quality academic institution 
despite our serious financial situation.
We must make sure that the administra
tion remains aware of us as students who 
have come here to try and be educated not 
as customers who are here to buy 
something.
I would approve raising the Student Ac
tivities fee by $5-$7 per semester. I take 
this position despite my dislike of 
increased costs to students. The Student 
Senate needs more money if it is to con
tinue to offer the quantity and quality of 
activities they now offer, only because of 
the Bookstore rebate can Student Senate 
finance this years activities.
Chuck Vukotich 
Graduate Constituency
The new approach to running the Uni
versity is of great concern to me. The ideas 
of efficiency and the student as custom
er are new, not only to this institution, 
but to higher education in general. The end 
result of these changes is not apparent. 
There is a great potential for good, but also 
for destruction. The student senate should 
take an active role in insuring that the 
changes to the University are beneficial. 
This can be accomplished by several means. 
The administration seems to be in a very 
cooperative mood; the senate should move 
quickly to make the best of this. At the 
same time, the senate should supply effec
tive feedback to the administration to help 
it accurately judge the effects of its pol
icies.
I resist raising the activities fee. The 
current costs outweigh the benefits; addi
tional funds show no promise of substan
tially increased benefits.
Rhonda Cohen 
WDC
The most crucial issue affecting students 
on this campus is the lack of 
communication and understanding 
between the administrators and the 
students. On numerous occasions, a policy 
change has occurred or a specific task has 
been undertaken by administrators, and 
then either the students are told of what 
has happened or the students merely run 
into the results of the recent actions. When 
a decision of the administrators is announ
ced in advance, no consideration is taken 
of students objections.
To bridge this communication gap, I 
will continue to support moves to promote 
better understanding between administra
tors and the student senate, in particular. 
Once this foundation of understanding has 
been developed, better communication is a 
natural outcome.
I believe it is necessary to raise the Ac
tivities fee $5.00 and no more. This $5.00 
will bring in fifty percent more revenue to 
student senate (since the fee, although in
cluded in tuition, is presently $10), which 
senate definitely needs in order to allow 
student organizations to receive the money 
they request. Also, an increase of just 
$5.00 should not financially break anyone 
here.
Jerry Di Gennaro 
Fraternity Constituency
The most crucial issue affecting the stu
dents on this campus is the lack of 
communication between the student body 
and Student Senate, and between the ad
ministration and the student body. I feel 
that Student Senate should, in as much as 
possible, reflect the views of. the student 
body, and present these views to the 
Administration.I feel that it would be my duty to talk 
to my constituents as often as possible, to 
ask them for advice, to maintain a working 
rapport with various officers of the admini
stration, and to be responsible for my 
actions on and off the Senate floor.
As it stands right now, 1 am against the 
raising of the student activity fee if it 
means an increase in tuition. I will remain 
against it.
Tanya Allmond 
WDC
The most crucial issues affecting stu
dents on our campus are apathy or just not 
enough time to become involved with 
anything but studying.
The issue of apathy is hard to cure 
because it is a state of being faced by most 
Americans beyond the boundaries of this 
campus. Yet, a way to approach this prob
lem would be to filter more information to 
the masses. To inform students of the op
tions available to them not only on the 
Activities level but on the academic level as 
well. This action can be stressed to the 
information Committee of Student Senate 
as a project it should be more involved 
with. Also if students were made more 
aware of their options and the power they 
have to effect change, we as students might 
be more inclined to be concerned about 
the well being of the campus.
In terms of the second issue of just not 
having enough time to become involved 
with anything but studying, the way to 
approach this problem would be to find 
special projects which will serve as an extra 
activity as well as an academic credit 
course. These projects would allow stu
dents to participate in activities they enjoy 
and are interested in and at the same time 
receive academic credit.
Student activity fee should be raised by 
a very small amount if and only if all funds 
collected can be channeled properly to or
ganizational needs. An activity fee is an 
important factor in keeping many of our 
activities going!
As Finance Committee chairman 1 hope 
the finance committee can continue to dis
tribute funds and possibly increase the 
number of worthy organizations to receive 
funds from the Master Student Activities 
Account.
In working with organizations over the 
past years I find the need for funds are 
often times grester than our supply. And 
for those of you who participate in activi
ties either in the planning stages or the 
viewing end I know would like to open 
your options to allow more people to take 
part in the planned activity. The coffee
house committee, film committee, Tartan, 
WRCT, Student Gallery, Peer Help, Spirit 
and other organizations could all use added 
financial support to make their worthwhile 
projects continue.
As in my past two years on Senate, I 
hope to continue to serve the student body 
for all of our betterment. I need your sup
port. Please vote in the Student Senate 
Elections.
David M. Weintraub 
Graduate Constituency
The most cruical issue directly affecting 
students on this campus is the attitude of 
the administration towards the students. 
Graduate students on assistantships are es
pecially affected; we are employed non
employees.
The best thing any student can do in 
this system is to keep himself/herself in
formed. I plan to let my constituents know 
of any news affecting them.
As I dont pay the S.A. fee, I cant fairly 
support raising it. However, considering 
that the fee is on the order of a percent of 
tuition, and that student social participa
tion seems to be increasing, 1 certainly do 
not oppose the raise.
Leslie Bram
Commuter Constituency
1. The Student Body must, of necessity, 
cope with a new administration which 
deals on a business-like responsible level 
with students. However, the student 
response has not equalled the demands of 
this interaction. It is time for the student 
body, hence the student senate, to become 
as independent (especially financially) and 
responsible as possible.
2. Student Senate now has in its power 
the ideal tool to aid in this process. The 
Carnegie-Mellon Student Government 
Corporation enables the student body to 
function as an independent legal entity. I 
feel this is the direction Student Senate 
must take to be a viable organization.
3. The Student Activities Fee is an issue 
which involves more than just money. A 
separate activities fee must be charged in 
accordance with the concept of an 
independent student body. As long as 
student activities are dependent on 
University monies, the University retains 
liability and responsibility for students 
actions. For the corporation to function, 
the fees must be separate. As to raising the 
fee from $10, I believe that an increase, 
however minimal, is called for. Student 
activities have been functioning on the 
same budget for years. Senate now finances
Student Senate
Student Senate candidates responded to 
these questions:
1) What is the most crucial issue 
affecting students on this campus?
2) What will be your approach to that 
problem?
3) What is your position on raising the 
Student Activity Fee?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 9
Respond Zo Questions
Arthur Ball 
Commuters
I believe that the most cruical issue stu
dents are faced with here is that involving
* students role in decision making and the 
related matter of student-administration 
communication on issues of importance to 
students.
Attempts should be made to have stu
dents participate more in decision making 
on campus. In addition increased commu
nication between both the administration 
and student decision making bodies and 
the student body as a whole is necessary to 
enable proper actions to be taken on behalf 
of the students concerning administrative 
policies and to ensure that such policies 
will be in the students best interest when
ever possible.
Insofar as the student activities budget 
is very tight at present necessitating occa
sional cutbacks in on-campus activities I 
believe there is a strong case for incerasing 
the student activities fee. This however is 
countered by the feelings of many students 
that costs at Carnegie-Mellon are high enough already and that some activities are 
really not worth their cost to students and 
should therefore be dropped. As a result I 
believe it is most desirable to determine the 
general student feelings on this issue and to 
take action which is most satisfactory to 
the students as a whole.
Walter Lute 
Hill Dorms
Everyone has his own idea as to what 
the most crucial issue on campus is, how
ever, I am trying to propose an area in 
which there is a realistic solution and in 
which I can be effective. Generating an 
interest in campus activities takes top 
priority on my list. In talking with people 1 
find that when the subject of campus 
organizations, especially Student Senate, 
comes up a highly negative attitude 
develops. Most of tire people have heard 
the name Student Senate, but have no idea 
what it is and do not want to find out. 
Before anything else can be done we must 
have students who know what is going on, 
are interested, and are willing to become 
involved.1 think the first step in the solution of 
this problem is to make the students better 
informed of the workings of Student Sen
ate. A more effective system of publication 
of minutes of Senate meetings would be a 
start. Getting more students to attend the 
meetings would also be a big help. After 
the publicity stage would come the effort 
to get people actually involved, not as spec
tators but as participants. My hope is that 
if we can get an initial group involved the 
interest will spread from these people to 
other students, who will help if given the 
chance.
A lot of people I talk to think that the 
only thing Student Senate is good at is
wasting money. If any program of greater 
involvement is to be undertaken the degree 
of trust in Student Senate must be in
creased, and I think that this is an excellent 
place to start. Not only will holding the fee 
steady avoid the flood of complaints about 
a fee increase which many students feel is 
completely unwarranted, but would also 
have the secondary effect of increasing the 
actual belief in the workings of Student 
Senate and thus cause a greater interest and 
involvement.
I have tried to present some of my ideas 
and hope that you have some small feeling 
for the way in which I will approach the 
issues that I encounter, and if you by 
chance agree with them please show this by 
signing my name to the ballot. Thank you.
the administration, and by negotiating with 
it, we can cause the administration to re
consider, and in some cases, reverse their 
actions. As a current senator, I have seen 
this happen, and I hope to continue to be 
able to prevent the University from Nick
eling and diming us to death.
As far as the question on raising the 
activity fee is concerned, I am one-hundred 
percent against anything that would cause 
students to have to pay more for anything 
than they do now.
Rick Donner 
Hill Dorms
The controversy concerning the Division 
of Operations and its Chief of Operations 
is, perhaps,the most crucial issue facing stu
dents. Much has been said about the new 
efficiency moves, the concept of a universi
ty as a business, and the reference to stu
dents as customers. Some of what has been 
said is valid, some of it is not. The connota
tions of the words business, and custo
mers can be very unpleasant. Therefore, I 
suggest that the President of the University 
and his Chief of Operations clearly define 
what is meant by this new business, custo
mer concept, and explain how this is seen 
to be a solution to some of the problems 
plaguing the university. Perhaps much 
hardship could be prevented.
After regular attendance to the Student 
Senate meetings, I can see that Senate is 
suffering from a serious monetary crisis. To 
eliminate this problem, the Student Activi
ties Fee could be raised $5.00; however, it 
should be billed separately from tuition. 
This would make the Student Government 
Corporation an autonomous organization.
If elected, I will do my utmost to sup
port that which is beneficial to students, I 
need the support of you, the residents of 
the Hill Dorm area, now.
Stan Edelstein 
Fraternity Constituency
To take a single issue and describe it as 
the most crucial one would be 
superficial. However, generally speaking, 
the most important problem facing the 
students is the fact that the university is 
slowly raising prices for auxiliary services 
(Bookstore, Fraternity Housing, Tartan 
.Grill, etc.) while it is cutting services it 
provided in the past. An example of this is 
that fraternities are now forced to pay to 
borrow certain items from teaching aids, 
such as movie projectors. These were lent 
without charge in the past.
However, student senate can act as a 
watchdog to prevent things like this from 
happening. By monitoring the actions ot
James D. Johnston 
Hill Dorms
I have noticed that there seems to be a 
total lack of communication between sev
eral University departments and the Stu
dent Senate, or, for that matter, the 
student body. This is evidenced by the 
recent clask between the Department of 
Operations and the Senate.
It is evident that Senate must inform 
the people whom it wishes to be informed 
by. I would attempt to start good commu
nications between the University and the 
Senate. For a start, I would attempt to find 
out what the Administration wants to 
know, what the Senate wants to tell them 
(definitely another quantity), what the 
Senate would want to be informed of, 
what the Senate would require in the way 
of action, and what the concerned depart
ment of the University would do with 
these actions. After this is done, the Senate 
as a whole should attempt to ensure the 
proper mechanics of this in such a manner 
that would allow the Senate to operate in 
full light of Administration actions without 
constantly attending to these methods.
No. I realize that the Senate could use 
more money, but 1 oppose this as a student 
on the grounds that Senates operations 
should be more evident: First.
Gary Crosbie 
Hill Dorms
I believe the most crucial issues facing 
the students deal with the future relation 
of the students to the administration of the 
university. Difficulties which have arisen so 
far seem to go more deeply than the usual
Mark Puliafica 
Fraternity Constituency
I feel that the most crucial issue facing 
students as well as faculty and staff on 
campus is the way Dr. Rutledge is trying to 
pass everything over our heads.
The only feasible approach to this prob
lem would be to try and reason with the 
man.
My position on whether to raise the 
students activity fee is that the students 
should have as much say in the matter as 
possible. The students who do not attend 
the events may consider the rate a financial 
burden where as those students that do 
attend the activities feel that an increase is 
justified.
David V. Groupe 
Fraternity Constituency
The most crucial issue affecting the 
students at CMU (that student has any 
power to deal with) is the lack of 
communication among all factions of this 
campus. Where can one turn if he has a 
problem? Whom should he go see? Whats 
going on in the changing policy at CMU?
We in the student senate should make a 
greater effort to communicate to the 
students. I would like to see a monthly 
summary in the Tartan on the actions of 
student senate, and a release of our own to 
be posted in the Fraternities, dorms and 
bulletin boards. The students themselves 
must also make an effort to get in touch 
with their senators to get their voice heard 
too. A reminder: All student senate 
ings are open to all the students they sei 
The Student Activity Fee? This qt 
tion is attacking the wrong angle. Raisin 
is not the major issue; but rather whet 
continued on page 10
uncomfortableness with a new organiza
tional structure. How there troubles are 
resolved inthe next weeks will establish, 
for better or for worse, how students can 
influence the operation of this university. 
Another aspect of a new relation may re
sult from the activation of the student gov
ernment corporation. It raises the possibili
ty of a much greater degree of indepen
dence of student activities from the univer
sity administration. How much we are will
ing to risk and how much in increased costs 
we can stand are important questions to be 
decided. Careful judgement on these mat
ters will be the responsibility of senate.
The question of raising the student ac
tivities fee is one of independence and identity for student government. It is appar
ent that not everyone realizes that this fee 
comes from the tuition. However, I do not 
believe that identity-seeking is a sufficient 
reason to raise the net amount a student 
must pay. I believe that a move to a more 
independent stance will cause some in
creased costs; such as salaries for the offi
cers of the student government corpora
tion; but not to the extent of the First 
proposed $10 fee increase.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
continued from page 9
to have it at all. The student senate is 
trying its hardest to better serve you and 
obtain the power to do so. By collecting a 
Student Activities Fee, this would enable 
us to act without the overthrow power of 
the administration to bring you what you 
want. The price should be determined by 
the students. Senate should do its best to 
get this fee a reality.
Mitchell Fried 
Fraternity Constituency
The most crucial issue facing the cam
pus today is how to deal with the recent 
wave of robberies and assaults that plague 
our academic community. Similarly, another key issue branching out from this 
one is what kind of and how much power 
should be designated to security officers.
In response to the previous issues, I pro
pose that more security be placed on cam
pus at night. Each officer should have a 
regular designated area to patrol, along 
with being required to report in every 
hour. These officers should be equipped 
with arms should any violence be precipita
ted.
The other key issue affecting the stu
dents is the universitys present attitude 
regarding service institutions. The closing 
of Morewood cafeteria on week-ends and 
the abolition of other such service oriented 
programs reflect a definite attitude of the 
university bureaucracy to cut its costs at 
the expense of the student body. Only 
with an adequately represented student 
body can the interests of the students not 
be forgotten by the university organi
zation.
I believe that the proposed raise of the 
Student Activity fee should not be passed.
I feel that the $20 allocated from the tui
tion is adequately sufficient to cover all 
necessary activities provided for by the ac
tivities board. Any addition would just 
raise tuition in the long run with the re
sulting marginal benefits being at a 
minimum.
Henry Collins 
Mens Dorms
The most crucial issue facing students 
on this campus at this time is their new 
relationship with the administration. While 
Dr. Rutledges changes since his assump
tion of the office of Director of Operations 
have been mostly constructive, the raise in 
bookstore prices in an ominous change, for 
one. It remains to be seen, in short, 
whether the student as customer philos
ophy will have the desired effect of finan
cially streamlining the university without 
effecting the unique position that students 
have always held.
Since my attitude is a wait and see 
one, I merely propose to oppose any Ad
ministration plans detrimental to the wel
fare of students, while supporting and 
course of action, whether initiated by stu
dents or Administration members, to im
prove the lot of students.
It is rather ironic that at a time when 
student participation in most activities ap
pears to have reached some sort of nadir 
the cost of the activities themselves is high
er than ever. For that reason, I think that it 
is unnecessary to raise the Activity Fee a 
full $5 per semester. I will support raises as 
they are necessary; all available evidence 
suggests to me that a raise will not be 
necessary until next year at the earliest.
College Council
College Council candidates were asked:
1) What important issues face your 
college?
2) What actions do you propose to meet 
these issues?
Christine Visminas
H&SS College Council: At Large
An issue that faces H&SS, and the 
university, is the need for an academic ad
visory service. Frequently students have 
troubles picking courses or a major, but 
have nowhere to go to talk about it. For 
various reasons, an assigned advisor may 
not be able to help. In the case of the 
self-defined major the problem is com
pounded for there are no set course re
quirements (beyond college requirements) 
and the student may know no one who can 
help him set up a major. In the case of a 
double-major, there is a problem of finding 
courses that will help weld his two areas 
together.
How much of a need there is for this 
kind of service I do not know. Perhaps it 
could be taken care of by a simple file of 
past course schedules of self-defined and 
double-majors and a cross-reference of 
professors and their specialties. Or the need 
may be for some kind of center, perhaps 
with information on how certain majors 
can be employed, what kinds of training 
this university can offer, where there are 
job openings, etc. This is something the 
Council should look into.
:
Ellis Zidow
Fraternity Constituency
From the fraternity standpoint, the 
most crucial issue we face is survival. We 
must constantly be seeking ways to im
prove our relationship with the rest of the 
campus community.
I feel it is most important to the frater
nity that the rest of the student body be 
made aware of why we exist, what benefits 
can be derived from fraternal living, and 
how fraternities can benefit the rest of the 
campus community. It is also improtant 
for the fraternities to realize the potential 
they have in becoming campus leaders, and 
that this potential is used by the fraternity 
to assume a more active role in campus 
affairs.
I feelj that the Student Activity Fee 
should not be raised withoutthe prior ap-t 
proval nPo the "student bod^ through a 
referendum. m -.v b %fcbn no
Marc Elliott Field
Independent Undergraduate Senator
The most crucial issue affecting students 
on campus is the administrations new pol
icy of rising costs with a reduction in ser
vices. If it is impossible to keep costs down 
students must be given the same services (if 1 
not more) when they aer expected to pay 
more money.
The way to solve the problem is through 
tighter student control of expenditures so 
we can determine those services which 
should receive priority.
A rise in the activities fee can be toler
ated only if the students are able to reap 
the benefits. I will fight for closing most 
student activities to the general public. It is 
absurd for us to pay for movies and con
certs and then not be able to get a seat for 
them because of so many non-students 
who attend. The primary responsibility of 
the AB must be to the students first. If the 
student is now a customer I intend to make 
damn sure he gets his moneys worth.
William Stewart 
H&SS College Council
Some of the issues are: Class Size: Large 
classes, especially in the humanities, where 
student discussion and oral participation 
are essential, are a detriment to the col
leges academic quality. If elected I will 
push for class enrollment limitations in the 
neighborhood of 20 students.
Requirements outside major: While di
versification to a certain extent is essential 
to a good education, I fail to see how a 
foreign language (which is soon forgotten if 
not practiced) is of any significant benefit, 
especially as it could be replaced by ad
ditional courses in, or related to, a stu
dents major. I am sure that modern Lan
guage majors would also be happier with
out the bloating of the size of their classes 
caused by this requirement.
Grading: The ability of an H&SS
student to elect his grading system appears 
at first glance to be very fair. However, I 
feel that H&SS should stop discouraging 
students from electing the Pa'ss/Fail system 
by citing graduate school and employment 
reasons, and instead put itself in a position 
to move together with other colleges and 
Universities to the Pass/Fail system. As of 
now, everyone is waiting for someone else 
to move first, and it is high time we shifted 
our emphasis from grades to learning.
Engineers Hope 
To Build With 
Pollution
(Reprint from CONSERVATION NEWS)
Supersludge, the concretelike pollu
tant product that research engineers hope 
can be used eventually for highway con
struction, continues to live up to early ex
pectations.
Supersludge is made from a mixture 
of fly ash, waste sulphate sludge, and 
hydrated lime. The pulverized fly ash is 
obtained from the burning of pulverized 
coal; waste sulphate sludge is a precipitate 
resulting from the neutralization of acidic 
industrial waste effluents, such as spent 
pickle liquor from steel plants or acid mine 
drainage from coal mines. When hydrated 
lime is added to fly ash and sludge and the 
resultant mixture is permitted to stand for 
a few days, it assumes the hardness of 
concrete, at a fraction of its cost.
To test its durability, the Federal High
way Administration constructed a 100-acre 
parking lot last Spring near Washington,
D.C., at the site of TRANSPO 72. Super
sludge satisfactorily passed all engineering 
tests during and since the travel exposition.
Federal Highway Adminstration en
gineers are also studying the feasibility of 
using supersludge as an aggregate 
material in asphalt and concrete mixtures.
Coal mining states have been following, 
with understandable interest, the develop
ment of supersludge. If the product 
proves to be successful-as presently 
indicated-it will provide an excellent 
market for substances heretofore con
sidered industrial wastes.
West Virginia is currently considering a 
project which calls for the experimental 
use of supersludge on a section of new 
highway. In this instance, the product 
would replace the aggregate normally used 
as a base for an asphalt highway.
Spotlight
Is the earth flat or hollow? Neither, you 
will say. But, believe it or not, there are 
groups even today who say they believe 
one or the other. The flat-earthers are 
left over from the middle ages in Europe 
when a decline in scientific knowledge pro
moted revival of the idea that the earth 
had, literally, four corners. The hollow 
earth idea, says the November SCIENCE 
DIGEST, has never quite died. Theories 
range from the existence of giant holes at 
the North and South poles where the 
oceans flow in and out, to the idea that 
man is actually living inside the hollow 
earth with the sun at the center.
  
Only ten percent of the nations 30,000 
scientists are women. And those who have 
made a career of science, says the 
November SCIENCE DIGEST, are often 
delegated to second-rate jobs, do not ad
vance as fast as men and sometimes are 
forced to leave if they become pregnant. 
Studies are now showing, however, that 
many of the prejudices against career 
women-their education is wasted, they 
take off years when they have children, 
they adversely affect their childrens 
development--are unfounded. Doors are 
opening easier for todays women than 
they did for their grandmothers, but its 
still a rough road. One female physicists 
outlook: A woman needs to be twice as 
determined to succeed with the same 
amount of competence as a man.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAIMTuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 11
Announcements;
An exhibition and sale of ceramics and
weavings by the CMU potters and weavers 
accompanied by the etchings, lithographs, 
silkscreens and woodcuts of five student 
printmakers is on display at the C-MU 
Student Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue.
The exhibition and sale will take place 
from Monday, November 6 through 
Saturday, November 22. The Gallery is 
open to the public Tuesday through Friday 
from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday from
11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Rollo May, internationally known
existential psychotherapist and author of 
the current best-seller "Love and Will", will 
speak at Duquesne University on 
Wednesday, Nov. 15, at 8 p.m. in the 
Union Ballroom. Admission to all is free of 
charge.
Dr. Frank Parkin, reader in sociology at the
University of Kent at Canterbury, England, 
will speak on "Idealogy and the Division of 
Labor in Socialist Societies" Wednesday, 
Nov. 8, at 3:30 p.m. in Breed Hall Audi
torium, Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, on the CMU campus. Dr. Parkin is 
a widely published expert on the socio
logical structures of Eastern Europe and 
has recently published a book entitled 
"Class Inequality and Political Oder: Social 
Stratification in Capitalist and Communist 
Societies" (1972).
"The Future of the Arts and the Arts of 
the Future" will be the topic of Akram
Midani, speaker at the CMU Forum on 
Monday, November 13, in the Skibo 
Ballroom on campus.
The talk will follow a social hour 
scheduled for 6 p.m. and dinner to be 
served at 6:45.
Graduate assistantships, fellowships, and
scholarships to qualified students are 
offered in Communication, Rhetoric, and 
Technical Writing at Rensselaer Polytech
nic Institute in Troy, New York. Each assistantship provides a tuition grant of 12 
credit hours per semester and a stipend 
ranging between $2400 and $3000. Gradu
ate assistants in the programs are assigned 
to teaching or special projects.
Inquiries about the assistantships, schol
arships, and programs should be made to 
the Chairman, Department of Language 
and Literature, Rensselaer Polytechnic In
stitute, Troy, New York, 12181.
"Prison Reform" is the program for Hillel's
Cafe Tel Aviv on Wednesday November 8 
at 12:15. Speakers are FJ^v. Calvin Ross of 
the Central Christian Church and Mr. Jerry 
Lockwood of University and City Min
istries. Lunch is served form 11:30-2 at the 
Y-ICK, 315 S. Beliefield.
Scandinavian Seminar is now accepting
applications for its study abroad program 
in Denmark, Finland, Norway, or Sweden 
for the academic year 1973-74. This livingand-learning experience is designed for 
college students, graduates and other adults 
who want to become part of another cul
ture while acquiring a second language.
The fee, covering tuition, room, board, 
one-way transportation and all courseconnected travels is $2,500. A limited 
number of scholarship loans are available. 
For further information write to: SCANDI
NAVIAN SEMINAR, 100 East 85th Street, 
New York, N.Y. 10028.
The Chatham College Choir and the Lehigh
University Glee Club will perform 
Palestrina's "Magnificat" at their joint 
concert to be held Saturday, November 11 
at 8 p.m. in the Chatham College Chapel. 
The public is invited.
Women's Service Organization meets every
Tuesday at 5-o'clock in the WDC Room at 
Morewood Gardens. All campus women are 
invited to attend. New ideas for projects 
are welcome. Come and see who we are!
"The Future of the Arts and the Arts of
the Future" will be the topic of Akram 
Midani, speaker at the CMU Forum on 
Monday, November 13, in the Skibo Ball
room on campus.
The talk will follow a social hour 
scheduled for 6 p.m. and dinner to be 
served at 6:45.
Everyone interested in joing the Activities
Board Concert Committee please attend 
the meeting Wednesday, Nov. 8, at 4:30 in 
Skibo Rm. 33. Meetings are every week, 
same time and place.\ '
The combined list of Pitt and CMU
commuters interested in car pools is 
available in room 53, the Commuter 
Council Office.
All organized groups recognized by Stu".tie ?)* ist SUl;?nji Us! (i! i>5|,
\ ii ld< jl t SSt-N .liiti ! !  MV;  O th>
' L' cf ii;t*tiro 103.
Student Senate Health Fund. Loans of up
to S200 d<'.la>s > an b<* obtained for ,i medi-. 
cal ust. in eluding pregnaney problems. 
Please call Susan Peters, 421-5513 .in 
evenings.
Starting Thursday, November 2, Food
Service will be offering Lo Cal Luncheon 
Entrees in the Kiltie Coffee House, Kiltie 
Cafe, and Thistle Room. The identifying 
symbol is LC.
At the November 1st meeting of the
Commuter Council Executive Board the 
following motions were approved; the 
revised constitution was approved 
unanimously, Jerry Lynch was appointed 
financial Secretary, and the external 
Presidential committee was formed to 
explore the possibility of a commuter 
movie. Comments may be addressed to 
CCCP, Box 103, Skibo.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine
Arts presents illustrations and photographs 
by Howard Worner until November 16.
Judicial violation slips are now available
from your floor counselor.
If you have any complaints or comments 
regarding any student problems tha arise 
in the course of dorm living, will be 
welcomed in writing to:
WDC Judicial Board/
Linda Arnold, Chief Justice 
Wood lawn Apt. 6 
campus mail-Box 27
or contact your tower representative or 
Tanya Allmond, secretary, Woodlawn Apt. 
10.
Now any student can independently earn
his or her trip to Europe by simply obtain
ing a paying job in Europe. A few weeks at 
a resort, hotel or similar job in Europe 
paying fiee room and board plus a wage 
more than pays for the new $165 roundtrip Youth Fare being offered by the 
scheduled airlines. A couple more weeks on 
the job earns money for traveling around 
Europe before returning home.
Jobs, work permits, visas, and other 
necessary working papers are issued to stu
dents on a first come, first served basis. 
Although thousands of jobs are immediate
ly available, applications should be submit
ted far enough in advance to allow Student 
Overseas Service (SOS) ample time to ob
tain the necessary working papers and per
mits. Any student may obtain an applica
tion form, job listings, and the SOS Hand
book on earning a trip to Europe by only 
sending their name, address, name of edu
cational institution, and $1 (for addressing, 
handling, and air mail postage from Eur
ope) to SOSStudent OVerseas Service, 
Box 5173, Santa Barbara, California 
93108.
The Language Department is offering a
course on Reading in 19th and 20th 
Century Russian Literature for the Spring
1973 semester. Anyone interested should 
reach Dr. R. Fougeres, BH 228C.
The Carnegie-Mellon University Chamber
Orchestra will perform a free concert at 
Carnegie Lecture Hall on Thursday, Nov. 9, 
at 8:30 p.m.
Associate Professor of Music Chauncey 
Kelley will conduct the Chamber Orchestra 
through a program composed of works by 
Bach, Copland, Respighi, and Schubert.
Paula Graham, flute, Hollis Bertolu//i, 
English horn, and Richard Purcell, trum
pet, will be the soloists for the program.
This is the first performance for the 
newly-formed Chamber Orchestra, com
posed of selected students from the music 
department. It will also be the first time a 
concert will be performed in Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. The program will be "Suite No. 2 
in B Minor for Flute and Strings," Bach; 
Quiet City," Copland; "Gli Uccelli," 
Respighi; and "Symphony No. 3 in D," 
Schubert.
A lecture and demonstration of the Martha
Graham Dance Ensemble will be held Nov. 
14 at Chatham College. The event, being 
held in the Chapel tor free, will run from
11 am to 2 pm.
TEACH-IN ON WOMEN: Meeting will be
held on Thursday, Nov. 9 at 4:30 in Skibo, 
Room 45. Please note change in meeting 
time.
A Bagels and Lox Brunch will be held
Sunday, November 12 at 11 am in the 
Faculty Dining Room of Skibo. The 
speaker will be Dr. Michael Sulman, Asst. 
Prof. of History, CMU. Topic: The Future 
of the Jew in America. Cost $1.00. 
Sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel.
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Society will
present its first concert of the current 
season Wednesday, November 15 at 8 pm 
at Calvary Episcopal Church in Shadyside 
at Walnut and Shady Avenue.
Under the direction of Donald Wilkins, 
music director of the Society, the 70-voice 
chorus, accompanied by a 3b-member 
orcheslia, will sing Beethovens rarelyperformed "Missa Solemn is." The concert 
is free to the public.
The CFA Music Department FacultyStudent Convocation for Thursday, No
vember 9 presents a lecture by Konstantin 
Simonovitch about "Dialog Between Amer
ican and French Music of the Last Two 
Conturies." The convocation will be held 
in Exhibition Hall at 12:30 pm.
The Third International Exhibition of Bo
tanical Art and Illustration, presented by* 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical Documen
tation, opens Monday, November 12, in 
the Hunt Library Penthouse, CMU. The 
exhibit is free and open to the public, and 
will be on view weekdays from 9 to 5, 
through March 30.
There will be a meeting of the Activities
Board Programming Fund Committee on 
Monday, November 13 at 8:00 pm in 
Room 33, Skibo. All organizations request
ing funds for Spring semester must attend. 
Applications for the fund are available at 
the Skibo Information desk. They should 
be returned by Friday, November 10.
The Pre-Medical Advisory Committee will
meet with interested students at 4:30 pm. 
on Wednesday November 12 in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium.
Classified Aris
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call STUDENT 
HELP CENTER. 683-2133.
Have problems? Need help? Call the HELP
CENTER - 683-2133 - for information and 
referral for legal, medical, drug and 
emotional problems. 24 hour answering 
service - 683-2133.
Compact refrigerators for rent-4% cubic
foot or 2% cubic foot. Ideal for apartments 
and dormitories. Save food! Save money 
and eat better! Call 279-7951. After 7 pm 
only.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by: B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Belief ield 
Avenue, 3rd floor. Every Tuesday evening, 
7 to 8:30 pm. 621-8875.
FOR SALE-Recording and stereo equip.;
two 4 track recorders; mixers; frequency 
equali/er; mikes; 1 Sunn 200s Amp with 
speaker cabinet2 15" speakers; stereo 
amp; 828 7177.
"WE ARE LOOKING FOR a student to sll 
our 8 track tapes. We are respected through* 
out the country as producing a premium 
product; have your own thriving business.
We carry almost 500 selections of all types 
of music. Soul, Pop, Oldies, Country and 
Western, Popular, etc. If you are interested 
call Melody Recordings, Inc. (201) 575-9430; 
ask for either Mr. Jones or Mr. Reid."
UNUSUAL 
PART-TIME 
OPPORTUNITY
Are you unmarried? 21-30 years of age? 
150-200 pounds? Non-smoker, healthy male, 
interested in extra money? If you answer 
"yes" to all of the above questions and de
sire further information, please send your 
name, address, and telephone number to
Biodecision Laboratories
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Cyert Meets With C-MU Staff
by Shelley Burhans
There is in this organization someone 
who does care about the University as a 
whole, and it is my hope and my aim to 
make every student, faculty member, staff 
member, alumni member all thinking in 
terms of the good of the total University. 
For far too long we have had thinking 
which has been oriented only toward indi
vidual welfare, needs and desires, it is criti
cal that we get thinking in terms of the 
total organization, particularly the relation
ship between the staff and the administra
tion. Thus stated President Cyert in his 
address to the CMU Staff on Tuesday, Oc
tober 31, wherein he emphasized the desire 
for enhanced inter-campus communication, 
in terms of input from these groups. He 
said to the staff, I think you can feel you 
are part of an institution which has a fu
ture rather than a only a past.
He recognized the difficult position of 
the staff in terms of (recent) past emphasis 
placed on faculty and students, and stated 
that he would like to bring about the con
ditions where all could work together in 
achieving these goals. He further said, I do 
not think we will really know if we are out 
of the woods for another year or year and 
a half.
Photo by Elliot Arons
C-MU staff workers are organizing the
Staff Council
He Spoke of fringe benefits, saying, 
The Board of Trustees and I are cognizant 
of the fact that the general area of em
ployee benefits and policies must be analyzed and reviewed on an ongiong basis in 
order to stay abreast of changing employee 
needs and on government regulations. I 
dont mean to say that we dont have some 
exceptionally good benefits and policies 
which may go unrecognized or taken for 
granted, but we do want to pledge to you 
that these policies and benefits are going to 
be studied; and that were going to make 
changes as necessary, and as expiditiously 
as possible. This is obviously a complex 
procedure, and I dont want a commitment 
to change without some real study before 
vve move, because we do want the end 
esults to be reasonable, equitable and leg*1 . ,Cyert said that he does want an adminis
tration sensitive to the needs of the peo1 
pie in that organizaiton; and one that lis|j 
tens. He stated that changes in policies' 
md benefits will be public and made avail
able, and mentioned the present work on 
:he grievance procedure for non-union 
staff, to effectively solve the problem on 
the job. If necessary, said Cyert,You 
can come directly to me. He also said that 
the promotion policy that the administra
tion wants to follow is to promote trom
within.
When the issue of the memo which had 
reprimanded this attempt at coopera
tion was brought up, Cyert indicated that 
changes were being made in policies and 
that, within a month, there should be a 
different kind of environment. Dr. Rut
ledge cited the difficulties of working with 
the complex issue of fringe benefit policies, 
and stated, Were trying to come up with 
a recommendation ... to where we think 
we might have suggestions for reasonable 
avenues to proceed upon ... we just put 
out the memo to say that the people (Staff 
Council members) were working on thier 
own time, and it was not yet a joint effort 
with the administration. He further said, 
We want to get it into a package in which 
everyone can tailor his fringe benefits to 
suit his own particular needs, and to not 
have a fringe benefit package in which a 
person just be happenstance is in one part 
or another.
He said of the Staff Council, we are in 
no way opposed to this idea, but we have 
to be careful of legal requirements in the 
formation of such a group; any organiza
tion of this sort has rules and laws which 
one has to look upon. There is always a 
problem that this can be viewed as an anti
union activity. He mentioned that the ad
ministration is going to find a room for 
Staff Council to use on a regular basis, 
and that other relationships with Staff
Photo by Elliot Arons 
Library workers may join the 
Staff Council.
Council will be taken up as the issues 
arise.
He further emphasized the fact that we 
are an equal opportunity employer; we will 
not discriminate on the basis of sex, color, 
religion ... we are looking for the best pos
sible people to fill the available jobs, and 
disclosed that by the beginning of the 1973 
year an Affirmative Action Officer who
will have the responsibility for faculty and 
staff will be hired, and will cooperate 
strongly with the current organizations we 
have on campus, insuring that we do not 
discriminate against any minority group. 
When asked about the legal issues in
volved in administrative dealing with Staff 
Council, stated Cyert, The notion is that 
if the University works closely with the 
Staff Council, and, say a union organizer 
comes in and wants to have a vote, and this 
vote is negative vis-a-vis the union, then it 
is possible for the union to bring suit 
against the University on grounds that we 
had violated the law by our close action 
with the Staff Council.
When asked by a Staff Council member 
how the University felt about Staff Coun
cils particular interest in fringe benefits 
and relatedpolicies, considering that Staff 
Council does not want to be told after the 
fact what has been given us, Cyert 
reiterated his positive position towards 
Staff Council having a voice, and suggested 
meetings of the Staff Council and studies 
of their own concerning these issues, and 
giving the Administration advice on direc
tions in which it should move. He sees the 
questionnaire sent out by Staff Council as 
partially an attempt to answer the question 
of the little and mis-understood fringe ben
efit policies. Said Cyert, It is now possible 
to constructively talk about ways in which 
there can be changes.
College Faculties Unionize
by Chris Brown 
and Steve Jurman
There has been a recent national 
emphasis on faculty unionization in insti
tutions of higher learning. Three major 
groups are now committed or committing 
themselves more to collective bargaining to 
fill this perceived need on the part of many 
faculties. These are the American 
Federation of Teachers, the National Edu
cation Association, and the American Asso
ciation of University Professors. The latter 
two groups locals sometimes intiiate un
ionization drives, although more often they 
have accepted that role as a defense against 
the more militant AFT. Although many 
faculties have up to now voted against 
collective bargaining, including that of 
Michigan State, it is more and more sugges
ted as an alternative to existing modes of 
faculty governance.
The union alternative rises from pres
sures on faculties. One pressure, especially 
in a time of cost-cutting for most U.S. 
institutions, is economic. Perhaps more im
portant than economic pressure is that 
many faculty members see what they be
lieve to be their professional rights and 
prerogatives being eroded by cost con
scious administrations (and in state 
schools, legislatures), by vocal student bod
ies, and, in community colleges, by com
munity pressures. (The latter two groups 
also played a role, through law suits, in 
settling strikes at the Community Colleges 
of Allegheny County and Philadelphia).
The process of unionization is control' 
led by law, with differing sets of state and 
Federal regulations for private institutions 
and those judged to be public or state 
related. The Pennsylvania Act allowing the 
unionization of public employees, for ex
ample, states that bargaining topics shall be 
wages, hours, and other terms and condi
tions of employment. Under this act ad
ministrations need not negotiate manager
ial policies, such as budget or personnel
Dr. Myron Joseph, Associate Dean of 
University faculty, selection.
Faculty critics of unionization cite that 
as a disadvantage, in that while gaining one 
form of power in certain areas, the more 
traditional role of faculties in such things 
as selection of administrators may come to 
an end. Much lies in the way in which the 
ambiguous conditions of employment. is 
defined.
Dr. Myron Joseph, Associate Dean of 
GSIA and a Professor of Economics, states 
that there have been cases in which union
ization of faculty has made it extremely 
difficult for a school to maintain a high 
level of excellence. He cites the issue of 
tenure within a union framework degenera
ting into what amounts to absolute job 
security.
Dr. Joseph, also the author of a related
Photo by Carl Grefenstette 
GSIA, comments on the unionization of
paper, Reflections on Union Trends in 
Engineering, says that, the time to ten
ure was reduced to three years, coupled 
with extensive public review procedures in 
any case of a faculty member let go prior 
to the three year period. The result was 
that once appointed, a faculty member had 
virtually instant tenure, since few depart
ment heads were willing or able to run the 
gauntlet of a public hearing.
The principal objection of many faculty 
members continues to be that unionization 
is not compatible with their professional 
status; other faculty members contend that 
their professional status has already been 
eroded into a labor-management situation.
The merits or faults of faculty unioniza
tion manily rest on the differing circum
stances of each particular institution.

---------------------------------------------------

Profs Down 
On Unions 
At C-MU
by Christine Infante
Unions bear a stigma--they represent 
labor and it may be some time before CMU 
faculty members regard themselves as 
laborers and the administration as 
management. There are CMU faculty 
members in unions such as the AFL-CIO 
related American Federation of Teachers, 
though relatively few CMU teachers claim 
membership. One H&SS professor 
summarized the feeling towards unions, 
(it is) unprofessional for professionals to 
unionize. Undoubtably, certain issues 
could impel the faculty to give up this 
principle. As of yet, however, they are not 
urgent.
A union is regarded as a collective bar
gaining agent. Since the university teacher 
has no power, other than his own, against 
the institution, at certain times a union 
could prove helpful. Cited among those 
issues which might give rise to a teachers 
union on this campus were: tenure, 
finances, working conditions and a say in 
department decision making.
Though the faculty, especially those 
without tenure, have less protection than 
the laborer, it is hoped that unions might 
be avoided and that these matters could be 
settled within the various colleges.
By far the major concern was over the 
effectiveness of a union which would 
attempt to act on behalf of a diverse 
faculty in diverse departments and colleges. 
As one MIS professor with tenure said, 
Just how effective is a single bargaining 
agent?
On the other hand, there are some who 
feel that the notion of professors as pro
fessionals is either an illusion or a contra
diction, arguing that they are treated like 
labor, especially in the instance of salaries 
where there is no bargaining.
Again, the views are as diverse as the 
faculty, with few agreeing; however, it was 
noted that this university is changing and 
that if unions are not needed now, they 
may come at some other time.
! Amateur and Free Lance
PH0T06RAPHERS
Obtain a Photographer's Identifica
tion News Card, which helps to get 
you past "lines" to where the money 
shots are.
To receive your NEWS CARD, mail $2.25 ($3.00 
for Card and Carrying Case) to:
QUINN
P. O. BOX 4719  PITTSBURGH. PA. 15206
RUGSfor Pin
wMt your ID Carr1
1000 9x12 Rugs SIS S19 S29 S49
mm (H 1*1** IhlH *.
 WMOUSALE fURNITURf  
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS* ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Diractor Chafe* WWiR?
Inp^ a*. An
CHASES
Mi WALNUT STRUT, SKADTSIDC
OfRN DAILY 10 ajm. to 9 pjn. 
(Satordoy 10 a*, to 5 
fm Mi iwlii ...Cm U1-1RSS
ARE PHONEY CREDIT CARD CALLS WORTH A CRIMINALRECORD? Plus a stiff f ine...a jail sentence...
or both?
Not everyone seems to realize that charg
ing phone calls to a fraudulent credit card 
number is against the law. And that the 
law sets heavy penalties for violators.
In this state, theres a fine of up to $500 
or one year in jailor both. (In some 
states, fine range as high as $10,000, with 
jail sentences of up to 10 years.)
Modern electronic computer systems are 
making it increasingly easy to track down
offenders. And the Telephone Company 
will not tolerate fraudulent calling, no mat
ter who the offender may be.
The penalties may seem harsh for some
thing that may be done out of thoughtless
ness. But the fact remains: The law does 
not look on phone fraud as a lark.
@ Bell of Pennsylvania
If you can stump us with anyone of these hi-fi questions, you win a Fisher TS-10QT-shirt.
1. What is sensitivity?
2. What does a muting control do?
3. What is a Hertz?
1. A car bearing a corpse
2. The number of back and forth 
vibrations of an AC signal in
l second.
3. A national car renting company.
4. What does the term selectivity mean?
5. The control that makes it possible to 
listen to the full range of sound when 
music is played at a low volume is called:
1. Range control.
2. Loudness contour control.
3. Volume control.
6. What purpose does a high filter 
control perform?
7. What are Baxandall controls?
8. What is a watt?
1. A unit of light.
2. A unit of power.
3. A unit of efficiency.
9. What is distortion?
10. How do the various power 
measurements, such as Peak-to-Peak, 
1HF, El A and RMS relate to actual 
output power?
11. The ability of a speaker to follow 
low-frequency signals of large 
amplitude is called:
1. Transient response.
2. Compliance.
3. Efficiency.
12. What is the function of a 
crossover network?
13. What is meant by an acousticsuspension speaker system?
14. What arc the advantages of a 
heavy turntable platter?
15. Wow and flutter are:
1. Changes in power output 
of an amplifier.
2. Distortion caused by variations
in turntable or tape deck motor speed.
3. Irregularities in the human voice.
16. What are the main benefits of 
electronics tuning?
1. More accurate than manual tuning.
2. Lower cost than manual tuning.
3. Provides convenient remote 
control tuning.
17. What does the term capture 
ratio" mean?
18. What is an IC?
19. What do tape monitor circuits do?
20. What is the TS-100?
There are twenty questions in this ad. Theyre hard 
questions. And while our salesmen know the answers to most 
of them, it isnt unreasonable to expect a slip on one or two.
So your chances of winning are good.
But even if you dont win, you can buy at a 
fantastic price, a price that Fisher loses money on.
You can buy one of these T-shirts for only a 
dollar. (Theyre a $3.50 value.)
If you have any questions about our salesmans 
answers, ask him for the official answer sheet.
(Hes not allowed to look at it till after hes answered 
your question.)
Any questions?
A WHERE CONVENIENT CREDIT 
I y IS AVAILABLEVMWNDER
Eastland Shopping Plaza North VarMdlM Pa. 15137 
7*01-7*03 McKfWght Road ftoaa Township. Pa. 1S237
Monro* vt Ha. Pa 1514*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTANTuesday, November 7, 1972
ENTERTAINMENT
Films and Television
Sunday, Bloody Wednesday
by Fredrick Gormley
Contrary to popular belief (popular 
with me), television is capable of producing 
major events. In prime time. yet. If you 
saw V.D. Blues on PBS a couple of 
weeks ago. you were witness to one. Two 
things, up to now, seemed to hold true of 
these events: One, they were either cul
turally or adult oridented, or treated their 
viewers as something other than cretins, 
and Two, they occured exclusively on Pub
lic Television.
So when commercial television decides 
that theyve got a property of the hot 
variety, they will go to all ends (where no 
man has gone before?) to publicize their 
venture. Such is the case with That Cer
tain SUmmer.
At the beginning of the television sea
son, there was talk that ABC was planning 
to do some out of the ordinary (opposed 
to extra-ordinary) made for TV movies. 
First the biggie-The Burtons No Less would 
be making something called Divorce His 
and divorce Hers. Makes one curious, 
no? Listed immediately beneath this in im
portance was a film called That Certain 
Summer, dealing with a father (divorced) 
telling his son (visiting) that the man in the 
house who lives with him (loving) repre
sents something more than Peter ever did 
to Uncle Bentley in Bachelor Father 
(that Kelly never asked questions about 
that anyway). And that the subject: a 
family affected by their unwillingness to 
talk about that (horrors!) would be 
handled with taste and sympathy. (Up till 
now, to the homosexual of the house,
taste in dealing with gay life in TV shows 
meant making the gay people not at all 
offensive to the straight viewer and having 
him finish the story in misery). To add to 
their credits the network employed 
top-rate actors in the starring roles: Hal 
Holbrook, Hope Lange, and Martin Sheen, 
all very good and big ticket with the tele
vision audiences via their past exposure on 
series.
So this reviewer looked forward to the 
showing of the film with anticipation and 
some wariness (past experience having 
made me understand what televisions atti
tudes are). So about a week ago, the 
columns started appearing rejoicing in the 
film to come. Judith Crist in T.V. Guide 
says simply brilliant performances; the en
tire cast combines to illuminate a human 
problem while providing dramd so absorb
ing that even the padding and occasional 
camera artiness can be ignored. John J. 
OConnor in the New York Times told 
me That Certain Summer can lay claim to 
some of the most impressive and sensitive 
acting ever contributed to television. You 
see, ABC ran about a week of previews of 
the film to the more prestigious critics 
since they were so proud of what Lamont 
Johnson et al. had done; understand that 
the networks rarely indulge themselves 
thusly, as they are usually afraid minimal 
showing of the features will bring enough 
adverse (and deserved) criticism.
Okay, they built it up for me; but 
people built up M.A.S.H. and Frenzy to 
me before I saw either of them, and as 
good as they might have been, they never
came close to my expectations. So, finally, 
I saw That Certain Summer last Wed
nesday and I liked it with reservations. My 
reservations are those of the typical gay 
activist, according to the consensus I took 
of my friends who watched it with me. 
What ever reason Doug (Holbrook) cries in 
the end of the show, his lover (Sheen) 
would never have touched him on the 
shoulder than walked away; this is the 
moment when lovers hold and need to be 
held. Secondly, the change of lines into 
Believe me, 1 would have it any other way 
if I could (concerning his sex life, Doug to 
his son) and blatant reshaping of lines 
(Its another way of loving, a line in the 
script, becomes Its the only way I can 
love.) And sometimes, the script which 
sometimes achieved the beautiful spareness 
of Sunday, Bloody Sunday descended 
into soap opera.
My final reaction to the movie, looking 
back over televisions representation of the 
gay person in the past (if you ever watched 
the boring and despicable The Corner 
Barthis timmer, or even The Bold Ones 
concerning lesbianism last Tuesday) is one 
of general pleasure. Its a start for more 
mature commercial broadcasting, its miles 
away from where we are now, and it is to 
be applauded; particularly for a scene 
where Dougs lover talks back to a liberal 
but patronizing brother-in-law. (Ive always 
wondered how to handle that, and he does 
it very well.) And for its sensibility and 
understanding of the way it is. Or should 
be more often.
Record Review
Stoneground Words
Theater
Godspell
by Nonie Dempsey
Would you believe that before I came to 
CMU, that is, only two short months ago, I 
had never ever heard of John-Michael Tebelak; I had never seen Godspell? Would you 
beleive that? Huh, would ya?
Then all at once I was bombarded. I 
listened to accounts of the trials'and tribu
lations of John-Michael and his Master
piece, I heard short and long histories of 
Godspellhow a show which started at 
CMU went on to become an international 
success, I read conversations with and 
reviews, even my aunt in Bethesda, Mary
land wrote to tell me she was going to see 
it in Washington this week. I decided I had 
to go.
So, last Monday night, I shut my mind 
to all political connotations and marched 
into the Nixon Theatre downtown. Unfor
tunately, though not surprisingly (all right, 
all right, that was partly political) the 
prices for a good seat at the Nixon run 
high. My orchestra seat minus a press pass 
would have cost me seven dollars. All the 
same, there was a better than average house 
Monday night.
I didnt know quite what to expect 
when the curtain went up. Id heard so 
many different opinions: Its great!
Wow! oh, its sooo good waitll you 
see it! My reaction? I was absolutely en
thralled and a trifle disappointed. I was 
disappointed that the plot (i.e. the story of 
Christs life) was missing. But then 
considering the wide range of commenting 
Id heard there was nothing left but for my 
cockeyed expectations to be in for a little 
letting down.
Otherwise Godspell was irresistably 
lovable. An energetic band of ten youthful 
clowns danced and sang (beautifully) 
mimiced and frolicked their way through 
the Gospel according to St. Matthew. I 
found their unorthodox handling of the 
parables and beatitudes in no way offen
sive; I was simply pleased that I knew the 
end of the story before Jesus in a Super
man sweatshirt and striped overalls, fin
ished telling it to his nine happy students.
Every age-old trick of comedy was used 
to tell Bible stories; from impersonations 
(Groucho Marx, Dick Nixon, Goldie Hahn) 
to charades to modern gag lines (Here 
come de judge! For a Pharisee?)
At the end of the first act, the cast 
invited the audience to come on up under 
the lights and share a little wine ... I mean 
grape juice. (Pittsburgh is the first city 
which insisted that the Biblical wine be 
replaced by a milder drink). The response 
was tremendous and throughout inter
mission a steady line of audience was trail
ing across the stage.
The second act, with the Last Supper 
and the Crucifixion, was of a darker mood. 
The woman in front of me sniffled 
throughout the farewell scene as Jesus 
made his personal goodbyes. The Cruci
fixion was uncomfortably effective, as the 
previously happy band of clowns writhed 
on wire netting.
The wire netting was it for the back
drop; hanging lights, beams, all the behind 
the scenes sort of stuff was visible. Two 
guitarists played from a raised platform on 
the audiences right yet none of this dis
tracted from the play. As a matter of fact, 
it would have been hard for anything to 
detract from the bright clown costumes 
that won their designer, Susan Tsu . so 
many awards.
by Steve Perkins
Melanie has never been one of my 
favorite female vocalists. I have never really, 
cared for her voice and have always con
sidered her singles crassly commercial. 
When presented with her latest album, 
Stoneground Words, to review, I must 
confess that I was prepared to completely 
detest it. But oddly enough, I was 
pleasantly surprised. Although Im still not 
wild about her voice, and her words tend 
to be trite at times, much of this album is 
very enjoyable music, and its all beauti
fully arranged. Some of the lyrics even 
stand as fairly respectable poetry-- 
particularly the title song, Summer 
Weaving, and I Am Not a Poet. The 
album is a peculiar mixture of triteness and 
originality, commerciality and sincerity.
All the cuts on the album are arranged 
by pianist Roger Kellaway and if this 
album is any indication of his talent he has 
to be one of the best pop arrangers to
come along in recent years; this album con
tains the most imaginative use of orchestral 
strings since the Beatles. Kellaway tends to 
work in terms of a choir of strings rather 
than just a few high violins floating above 
everything else like so many pop arrangers. 
The string sound always has a middle and a 
bottom and it forms a textural foundation 
for the music rather than just being a 
frosting on top. He also uses cellos and 
basses alone very effectively in Together 
Alone, Stoneground Words, and Song 
of the South, Based on a Theme of the 
North. This technique in pop arranging 
was unheard of until the Beatles and is still 
pretty rare.
The character of the arrangements 
ranges from the square dance flavor of 
Song of the South to the strong jazz 
feeling of Here I Am. The background is 
kept subtle to complement Melanies voice 
but if you listen carefully you realize that 
the studio musicians are really doing some 
pretty incredible things. They take solos
now and then and blend back into the 
tapestry.
Everything is so well coordinated and 
yet it sounds improvised at the same time.
Melanies contribution to the album is 
somewhat less brilliant than her sidemens, 
but it is one of her better efforts. The main 
trouble with this girls singing is that she 
wrecked her voice belting songs years ago 
and now she only sounds good when shes 
singing loud and high. Unfortunately, she 
isnt smart enough to stick to what she 
does well and the lower and softer she gets 
the worse the quality of her voice sounds. 
She does have a pretty good idea of how to 
sing, though, and she does a lot with what 
she has. I suppose it could be said that her 
voice has sort of an antique quality which 
givers her music an air of nostalgia.
Shes not a brilliant songwriter, but 
most of her compositions on this album are 
at least pleasant to listen to and a couple of 
them, Summer Weaving, and I Am Not 
A Poet, contain some interesting obser
vations about the conflicts between caring 
about someone and surrendering your in
dependence. Oddly enough, the best cut on 
the album is the only song she didnt write, 
Pete Seegers Rainbow Race. This cut is 
an outstanding performance for both 
Melanie and her backup band.
With Stoneground Words Melanie 
has come up with a very pleasant sounding 
album, and an album that seems to be the 
sort of thing you listen to as youre getting 
depressed, though it isnt depressing in 
itself. Its probably a good album to get 
drunk alone to, although I havent has an 
occasion to try that since Ive had the 
album. I wouldnt buy it myself, but its 
not a bad album. And besides, Melanie 
looks too sweet on the cover for anybody 
to really condemn it.
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH THEATRE
PRESENTS
Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's
THE THREEPENNY OPERA
BOX OFFICE 
621-3500, ext. 331 
1-5 p.m. - Mon. - Sat.
FOSTER MEMORIAL 
8:30 p.m.
Nov 17, 18.
Dec. 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAIM -Tuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 15
Dance
Me and the Ballerina
Her Lover, The Man She Must Marry and 
An Episode in Her Past (!?!) danced out 
their intertwining emotions and frustra
tions. Afterinnumerable near discovery and 
exposures of pas de deux with the wrong 
person, at the end of the ballet Caroline 
and the Man She Must Marry join hands 
and everybody lives unhappily ever after. 
Both leading blaaerinas, Alba Calzada and 
Fiona Fuerstner danced stiffly through 
their romantic torments and this added to 
the (intentional?) humor. Unquestonable, 
however, was the excellence of the indivi
dual costuming: the girls in long flowing 
gowns, the makes in everything from waist
coat and trousers to an avacado shirt with 
an over the shoulder sash atop a white 
leotard.
The thrid selection was the Pas de 
Deux from Swan Lake. Once again, 
intruigjng but strange. Dressed in black and 
gold, Michelle Lucci and Keith Martins 
interpretation of swans was very formal, 
nearly ominous. Michelles dancing was 
heavy (someone behind me suggested her 
feet hurt) and her facial expressions 
seemed other worldly. The audience was 
startled but they liked it.
Serenade was the final ballet of the 
afternoon. Ballerina whispered to me be
forehand that it was her favorite and they 
had better do it right. Another plotless 
piece, George Balanchine, the choreo
grapher, described it simply as dancers in 
motion to a beautiful piece of music. 
Thats exactly what it was. The Penn
sylvania Ballet and The Pittsburgh 
Symphony did it beautifully.
Jacques Loussier 
Trio
* The Jacques Loussier Trio is returning 
to Pittsburgh and the Carnegie Music Hall 
on Saturday, November 11, presenting 
Play Bach, the title given to this unique 
performance of the music of Johann 
Sebastian Bach which has been hailed by 
audiences and critics all over the world.
Loussiers jazz development of the 
music of J.S. Bach displays a merging of 
^ the two cultures into one musical com
position. The French pianist is accom
panied by Bassist Pierre Michelot and 
Drummer Christian Garros, two of 
Europes best jazzmen. This will be the
trios fifth North American tour and 
second appearance in Pittsburgh.
Of their last appearance, Donald Miller, 
Pittsburgh critic wrote: Music flashed 
through the hall in both slow and crashing 
movements-all extremely satisfying in a 
way which seems to accomplish an im
possible jointure. This was the Loussier 
Trios first visit here. They should plan to 
return soon. Time Magazine says, 
Loussier-Bach is fascinating. Each number 
contains a few snatches as an excuse for 
wheeling off into sweet, cajoling solos or 
bouncing into a marching, brutish beat.
The Trio returns to Pittsburgh under the 
sponsorship of the Acitvities Board of 
CMU. Tickets for the 8:30p.m. concert on 
Saturday, November 11 are available at 
Kaufmanns and the ticket offices at CMU, 
Duquesne, Chatham and the University of 
Pittsburgh.
by Nonie Dempsey
After watching the American premier of 
Beethovens Ninth as performed earlier 
this month by the Pittsburgh Ballet The
atre, me and my friend, the Ballerina, 
figured that our chances on seeing better 
ballets in the future were excellent.
So, once again Sunday Afternoon, the 
two of us borrowed eighty cents worht of 
exact change and went to see The Penn
sylvania Ballets presentation of Cereus 
at Heinz Hall. 1 am pleased to inform you 
that me and the Ballerina figured right. Not 
only did we see a world premiere this time, 
but the Pennsylvania Ballet, unlike certain 
local theatres, is a respectable, professional 
company.
Cereus, described as feline . . . 
catlike-jazzy by its creator Anthony 
Tudor, was an interesting well executed 
ballet of mood. The nine dancers (four 
couples and an extra male), costumed in 
dark green and pale pink, completed their 
abstract movements under effective yet 
simple lighting. A program note, The Ce
reus is a heavily perfumed tropical flower 
that opens at nightfall and lasts only one 
day along with the strangely tropical (?) 
sounding original score for four percussion 
instruments by Geoffery Gray created a 
mood that made up for any noticeable lack 
of plot or meaning.
The second ballet Jardin Aux Lilas 
was also choreographed by Tudot. Though 
supposedly a tragedy of manners set in the 
late Victorian era, my friend, the Ballerina, 
kept giggling. Before a brooding backdrop 
of misty blue and purple trees and a pale 
moon, the four lead characters, Caroline,

Jacques Loussier at work.
The CMU Activities Board 
presents in concert:
Mark 
Almond
aAS Shet hD .hSSAUnaMyj
Saturday, Nov. 18 
&&T 8:30
SOLDIERS & SAILORS HALL
ghkHtSA ,-,ho,Uot ,Sx
CMU Skibo Information Desk 
Univ. of Pitt, Ticket Office 
Chatham College 
Heads Together in Squirrel Hill 
Frpe People s Store in Oakland
jg
[!K.i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
Foto Contest 
To Be Held
Recognizing the enormous popularity of 
the hobby of photography at CarnegieMellon, the TARTAN, the Student Gallery, 
the C-MU YWCA, and the Camera 
Exchange stores are sponsoring the 
TARTAN Photo Contest.
Up to three black and white prints may 
be entered by any member of the campus 
community in the three categories of 
competition, People, Events, and Still Lifes 
or Landscapes. Prints may be any size up 
to 11X14, and must be mounted (mounted 
size maximum 16X20).
First prize in each category will be a 
$15 gift certificate to the Camera 
Exchange stores. Second prize will be a 
$10 certificate. In addition, a special issue 
of the TARTAN will carry the best photos, 
and all will be displayed in a special show 
at the Gallery.
Prints must be submitted to the 
TARTAN office, YWCA office, or the 
Skibo Information Desk by November 30. 
Entry forms are available at those locations 
and at the Student Gallery.
Wright
continued from page 1
M.A. and PhD. from the University of 
Washington (Seattle).
Mr. Wright has taught at the University 
of Minnesota and Macalester College and is 
presently a member of the English Depart
ment at Hunter College in New York City.
Libraries Announce Vacation Schedule
The following hours will be in effect for the Hunt Library and Engineering and 
Science Library for the Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years Holidays. Also 
included are extended hours for exam period:
Thanksgiving
Wednesday, Nov. 22 
Thursday, Nov. 23 
Friday, Nov. 24 
Saturday, Nov. 25
Regular hours will resume Sunday, Nov. 26th 
Extended hours - December 8 - December 18 
Regular opening hours
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
9:00 am-5:00 pm
Christmas and New Year
Dec. 19-20-21 
Dec. 22-23-24-25 
Dec. 26-27-28 
Dec. 29-30-31-Jan. 1 
Jan. 2-3-4-5 
Jan. 6 
Jan. 7
Regular hours resume January 8, 1973
Mon.-Fri. - 8:00 am 
Saturday - 9:00 am Closing 2:00 a.m.
Sunday - 1:00 pm
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
9:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED
Charles Herbert Corle
381-2441 
Hours by
Appointment
NOTARY PUBLIC
"WE ARE LOOKING FOR a student to sll 
our 8 track tapes. We are respected through* 
out the country as producing a premium 
product; have your own thriving business. 
We carry almost 500 selections of all types 
of music. Soul, Pop, Oldies, Country and 
Western, Popular, etc. If you are interested 
call Melody Recordings, Inc. (201) 575-9430; 
ask for either Mr. Jones or Mr. Reid."
Sororities
continued from page 1
ested in sorority life should feel free to 
visit any of the sorority floors in Morewood-Chi Omega-5C, Kappa Alpha 
Theta-6C, Delta Delta Delta-7C, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma-3D, and Delta Gamma-6D, 
claims Pan-Hell President.
Registration
continued from page 1
all students who have not pre-registered 
regardless of their classification (i.e. Senior, 
Junior, etc.)
ACOUSTIC RESEARCHSpeakers
at
neduced frucc&f
Also Speakers, Amplifiers, 
Turntables, Stereo Compon* 
ents by Dynaco, Pickering, 
Scott, Empire, Acoustic Re
search all at comparable 
reductions!
SEND FOR PRICE LIST!fidelityChouse
WRITE BOX 1290, DEPT.
POINT PLEASANT BEACH, N.J.0S742
ADMISSION?
ATOP
WINNING 
POET
Photo By Thomas VictorJAMES WRIGHT
8 p.m. 
In The 
Skibo
WHERRET
WINNER OF...
 1972 Pultizer Pr ize for his "Collected Poems"
 1972 Fellowship of The Academy of American Poets
"for distinguished poetic achievement"
 Ingram Merrill Foundation Award
 1971 Brandeis University Creative Arts Award for Poetry
 Fulbright Fellowship
 KENYON REVIEW Fellowship
 Guggenheim Fellowship
 Eunice Teitjens Memorial Prize for Poetry
 National Institute of Arts and Letters Grant
 Rockefeller Foundation Award
AUTHOR OF...
 COLLECTED POEMS
 THE GREEN WALL
 SAINT JUDAS
 SHALL WE GATHER AT THE RIVER
 THE BRANCH WILL NOT BREAK
Room
SUBJECT
"A VIST WITH JAMES WRIGHT" 
.CtSal st,uhDM nhSy vCeetDS,al
 Presented by The Activities Board 

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 17
Faculty, SytfUnio
Its not music to weepy sigh or sniffle to. "
But its not merely happy-happy music either.
It is madly exhilarating, mind-blowing" music; 
a kind of planned, brilliant anarchy.
What a collection:
Loussier himself, like a restless anarchistic keyboard Picasso; 
bassist Pierre Michelot who has played with everyone; 
and drummer Christian Garros who roams at ease 
through the gamut of exotic percussionisms.
Within Bachs strong, beautifully mobile, familiar progressions
(he lived in an age of improvisation
and was himself one of its greatest exponents)
the three of them set up a fantastic firework display.
The Jacques Loussier Trio plays at playing music the way one 
imagines the gods playing at omnipotence.
YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO MISS THEM!
Meredith Oakes concert review in the Sydney Australia DAILY TELEGRAPH (6/5/69)
seff associates limited presentsPUy Bach
ltUscPg .1cgg2Pf
STEINWAY ARTIST 
LONDON RECORDS
L\
h JACQUES LOUSSIER H 
~ PIERRE MICHELOT ** 
CHRISTIAN GARAoSuC
m
RETURN ENGAGEMENT 
Presented by the Activities Board, Carnegie Mellon University
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1972-8:30 P.M.
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
General Public  $3.00 Students  $2-00
Tickets Available at: CMU's Skibo, Pitt, Duquesne & Kaufman's 
For further Information, call 687-1662

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTANTuesday, November 7, 1972
STUDENT HEALTH FUND 
SCOTCH 'N SODA 
FACULTY COURSE EVALUATION 
RliWANB PISTOL CLUU 
COMMUTER CLUB HANDBOOK
AND
PLUS
Provide AlTo Faculty,
MORE SPACES IN SKIBO
University and Trustee Committees.
NLY REPRESENTATIVE IF YOU VOTE.
FOR YOUR 
PRESENTATIVES
NOV. 13-14

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 19
Photo by Rick Werme
Cathy Corff speaks to Sargeant "Ed" concerning operation identification.Operation ID
continued from page 1
project and they are forbidden by law from 
handling anything that has an Operation 
Identification mark. CMU Security Chief 
Ron Taylor has ordered engravers for stu
dents who live off campus to sign out. 
They can label their own property and the 
numbers will be kept by security and the 
Pittsburgh Police. An important note is 
that no record is being kept of WHAT is 
engraved. Officers Kriss and McNutt both
Pin Balls
continued from page 1
The Food Service Committee has met 
with Dr. Rutledge to discuss their ideas for 
the grill. This committee is a Student Sen
ate Advisory Committee composed of one 
staff member, one faculty member, 3 stu
dents, and one person not associated with 
the university (a removed customer). In the 
minutes of a recent Food Service Commit
tee meeting, there was a clause which stu
dents have raised objections to saying a 
radio with appropriate visual media in the 
form of flashing lights will be installed. In 
reply, Dr. Rutledge has answered, This is 
a trivial matter and an attempt to broaden 
the appeal of the grill. I want to build up a 
base business serving the 2,000 member 
staff and faculty as well as students. This 
way the operation wont have to lay off 
any workers even when school isnt in ses
sion. Dr. Rutledge was enthusiastic about 
an idea of the students to give the grill a 
lounging area with comfortable chairs.
Another argument from the students 
has been the idea that they would prefer 
the money which will be spent on the 
Tartan Grill towards a cut in tuition or
agree that is nobodys business. The improtant fact is that all numbers are recorded so 
that anything labeled can be easily 
identified. Also, it was disclosed that CMU 
has ordered some of the most modern bike 
racks. They are supposedly the most secure 
racks made. Even so, the officers of Opera
tion Identification will return to engrave 
bikes and any other student property. 
They will be at Donner Hall on November 
9 and at Hamerschlag House on November 
14.
carpeting of the library. The money spent 
on the Tartan Grill is a part of food service 
that is separate from all other university 
functions. Dr. Rutledge expressed that 
food service is a self-contained non profit 
organization. From experience with the 
Kiltie Cafe, we see that a pleasing interior 
helps food acceptance. We would like our 
customers to stop in and take a break.
In regard to any plans for the renova
tion of the grill, Student Senate has issued 
this resolution, Therefore it be resolved 
that it is the express wish of the Student 
Senate that all action concerning the juke 
box in Skibo and purchasing and installa
tion of televisions be halted until such time 
as representatives of food service and Dr. 
Rutledges offices have shown due cause, 
before the Student Senate. In accordance 
with this declaration, no decision has been 
made as to the date for renovation. Dr. 
Rutledge has declared that when the def
inite plans are made, operations would 
only attempt the renovation at a holiday 
time like Thanksgiving or Christmas when 
the student would be the least 
inconvenienced.
What is satisfying and slenderizing? 
The Lo Cal Luncheon Entree suggestion being offered 
in the Kiltie Coffee House, Kiltie Cafe and Thistle 
Room starting Thursday, November 2. 
Watch for the identifying symbol
Kepes To 
Speak Fri.
Gyorgy Kepes, Director of the Center 
for Advanced Visual Studies at the Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology, will be 
the speaker for the third program of Design 
Issues, presented by the Design Depart
ment of CMU.
The program is scheduled for Friday, 
November 10, at 9:00 am in Breed Hall. 
MMCC, on campus. The talk is free and 
open to the public.
Design Issues is currently in its sixth 
year and has brought a variety of profes
sionals in all fields of design to the CMU 
campus during its existence. The program 
is currently funded by a grant from PPG 
Industries Foundation.
H&SS To Hold 
Decision Making 
Program, Mon.
A sepcial program designed to help stu
dents decide how to choose a major and 
career field will be held November 13 from 
1:30 to 4:30.
Dean Irwin Steinberg of H&SS has in
vited Gordon Miller of the College En
trance Examination Board to conduct a 
group session in decision-making skills for 
interested freshmen and sophomores. The 
program will involve simulations, games, 
and decision making exercises. Audience 
participation will be involved.
The number of participants will be 
limited. Spaces can be reserved by signing 
up in the H&SS Deans Office, MMCC 107, 
before Friday, November 10.
PREGNANT? - Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
v,ePnA v,eta, ^t,u5n,aStaA 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
whoe 
.aCktAAhDM  m5nhPetDS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
dSnutDS VhAkCnDS CD 0CAS ISte
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
dS,aShDM SC MtS , ohSSot kyhool, UnDHlN
If lCn SyhDH hS4A kCou DCW, W,hS nDSho VtkF
WARM-UP IN ACAPULCO!
joinThe Great 
Mexican 
Escape
Carnegie-Mellon is offering all students, staff, fa
culty, and their immediate families 10 days in the 
Mexican sun.
$249
December 26 - January 4
4 nights in Acapulco
5 nights in Mexico City 
Round trip jet flight 
First class hotel accommodations 
New Year's Eve Party
.. . and more.
IS4A DCS SCC o,St SC atAta-t lCna Po,kt hD Syt AnDF 
vCDS,kS :tD d,kyA, 361 dHhUC Ca k,oo 2O3EO266b 
m8SF O3&F dtt lCn hD 0t8hkCF
.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
C~MU Composers HonoredComputer 
Continues
continued from page 7
data, or they can use the program 
REFMT8 to convert CALCOMP plots to 
the format required by the HewlettPackard. To use REFMT8 to plot a VS 
dataset intended for the CALCOMP, issue 
the following commands:
DDEF FT07F001 ,VS,dsname 
REFMT8
where dsname is the name of the dataset 
to be plotted. If the dataset is VI, you 
must first issue the command DEFAULT 
FTNVIIN=Y.
Before the plotter will operate, it must 
of course be turned on. Paper must also be 
put on the platen, and the CHART HOLD 
switch turned on.
BETOS PIZZA
.h,b ^CS ^C,MhtA
11 pm-l arrr M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
Leonardo Balada, a composer and 
member of the music faculty, and Nikolai 
Lopatnikoff, professor of music, emertus, 
at CMU, have been honored by the 
American Society of Composers, Authors 
and Publishers (ASCAP).
They were named recipients of the 
1972-73 ASCAP awards for works of 
unique prestige value. ASCAP, a 
performing rights licensing organization, 
presents the awards annually to assist and 
encourage writers of serious music.
Mr. Balada, an associate professor of 
composition, is a well-known Spanish com
poser whose work has been internationally 
received. In December, The National Or
chestra of Spain will perform, in Madrid, 
Baladas Marina Sabrina, an oratorio for 
narrator, chorus and orchestra. The Pitts
burgh SYmphony Orchestra will perform 
in January the world premier of Baladas 
latest work, Steel Symphony. Mr. Balada 
has been at CMU since 1970, and won the 
ASCAP award last year for his 
compositions.
Mr. Lopatnikoff, formerly a professor 
of composition, retired from the CMU 
faculty in 1968. He has won ASCAP 
awards for the last four years, and has 
received two Guggenheim fellowships, an 
award from the Kousseevitzky Music 
Foundation and first prize in the 
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Competition for 
the Cleveland Orchestra. In 1963, he was 
elected to the countrys highest honor 
society of the arts, The National Insitute of 
Arts and Letters. He was a professor at 
Carnegie-Mellon twenty-three years.
Spotlight: 
Suicide
A new test is helping doctors to predict 
-and prevent-suicide. Dr. William W. K. 
Zung of Duke University Medical Center 
has devised a set of tests which, when 
analyzed by a computer and a skilled 
physician, can help categorize a patient
according to the probability of his
committing suicide. With the 500 patients 
tested so far, reports the November 
SCIENCE DIGEST, the procedure has been 
accurate about 70 percent of the time.
There is still no push-button answer,
though. A doctor must consider socio
logical and demographic characteristics, 
psychological factors such as depression, 
anxiety, and general health in order to get 
an accurate picture.
There is no way to peace, Peace 4s the way.In newspapers, items such as this one are 
called punk.
Aside from informal visits, this fall will 
be the first time Boeing has been on your 
campus since 1969. A lot has 
happened since then. It was 
a tough period. One which 
saw the aerospace industry 
plagued with manpower re
ductions. It was a period 
of belt tightening, soul 
searching, and finally, 
accomplishment.
Now the airline in
dustry has turned the cor
ner and jetliner orders are 
coming faster than we ever 
predicted. Orders for the 727- 
200 have passed the 1,000 mark, and the 
sale of ten 707s to China represents a break
through which gained worldwide attention.
Boeing continues to pursue vigorously a 
number of major aerospace programs, includ
ing a short takeoff and landing (STOL) air
craft, helicopters, the Airborne Warning and 
Control System (AWACS), and space vehicles 
and equipment, among others.
Boeing Computer Services, Inc., a whollyowned subsidiary, is becoming recognized as 
a broad based company with services not only 
in consulting, training, computer system de
sign, programming, and data processing, but 
also in management, operations research, and 
management of customer computer facilities.
While the major elements of our business 
continue to be commercial jet transportation 
and government defense and space require
ments, we have begun activities outside these
traditional areas. Measured on the scale of 
total company operations, these diversifica
tion activities dont loom very 
large yet. But we believe 
they have potential for 
the future and could 
represent as much as 
25 percent of total 
sales in a decade.
A few of these pro
grams are: 1) people 
movers to unclog traffic 
conditions in our cities; 2) 
hydrofoils to move people and 
freight over water faster; 3) a 
100,000-acre test site where were growing 
crops in a desert that has been stabilized with 
garbage from a nearby city; 4) a pollution 
control process that has application in de
salination and as a treatment of industrial 
waste; and 5) aerospace programs that can 
lead to a better understanding of how to 
use this planets natural resources more 
efficiently.
The point istoday Boeing is a lean, 
ambitious, and very inventive company. A 
place where new ideas flourish. Where an 
attitude prevails that nothing we did before 
is good enough for tomorrow. An organization 
thats rebuilding. Strong. Healthy. And de
voted to the development of new systems that 
can keep planet Earth on course and the 
people who live here healthy.
If this sounds like the kind of company 
you can grow with, lets get together. The 
place to start is with your Placement Office.
3. dofrts HesM 
..setar Wan* uttessW pa 
.test growing Hey nO^ 3* ie nalton's atee*
. ;n planning! womenparticipation in P fest 1
...fu from tne \ nc>pyart of he concept1
J3JF/VZ
An equal opportunity employer.
Boeing is back.
hDSta-htWhDM motkSahk,o mDMhDttahDM ,Du vCePnSta dkhtDktA qa,un,StA
*C-teUta 3B

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972-Page 21
TYPIST NEEDED
The TARTAN Needs A Skilled Typist
You Will Be Trained On An IBM 
MTST Composer
$2 per Hour
Must Have Free Time
Inquire At TARTAN
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen. men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing, I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red. Fred.
Akadama RedThe toast of the campus.
Imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. Calif
PUT WINGS ON YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE
Your professional flying 
career could start 
with a phone call
The United States Air Force offers some unique 
career-starting advantages to college graduates 
between 20i/2 and 26Vfc years old. After grad
uation from Officer Training School youll earn 
$11,184 per year while attending flight training; 
automatic increases plus promotion in rank can 
raise your income to $17,000* du ring your service 
term. And youll acquire valuable training and 
experience that will pay off in civilian life . . . like 
a head start on a flying career ... or impressive 
leadership and million-dollar responsibility cre
dentials to go with your degree. Benefits include 
30 days paid vacation annually, free world wide 
air travel, medical care and much more. Call now 
for more information without obligation:
Sgt. Richard P. Allen 
(412) 644-5839 
Room 310 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
ABORTION
IDfCae,ShCD
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
pD pUCaShCD k,D Ut ,aa,DMtu 
nhSyhD O& yCn aA
^ on can return home the same day you leave.
Call Collect 
215  735  8100
PtD Y V,lA F& JttH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
the SUMMER *e oS SPIRTS
Being well into my third year of dose involvement with CMUs 
Athletic Department and active participation in its Intercollegiate Athletic 
Program / cant help but feel the despairing alienation of the CMU Jock 
community from the rest of the University. Thisschoolhas been infested 
with a choking stigma that was attatched to varsity athletics long before 
my time here and itis only ironic at this point that our Soccer and 
Cross-Country teams were the latest victims of the stigma. It would do 
everyone involved with these teams a great injustice to point a finger at 
them and say, You choked! The logical thing to do would be to try to 
console them, saying that they had been choked by this University, 
defining this University as a separate entity in relation to its Athletic 
program, which it indeed is.
Less than a year ago, the University joined the Presidents Athletic 
Conference. It seemed to be a step in the right direction, if you viewed it 
from the front. But, if you were lucky enough to have a behind-the-scene 
vantage point, it was not hard to tell that we were stepping froward with 
our hands tied behind our back. The Sports budget had been slashed 
almost to the point of nothingness, again. But, we were going to compete 
with the likes of Thiel, Allegheny and John Carroll, schools with 
enrollments on a par with ours, but with unfair resources both in money 
and personell. Unfair to our players, that is.
Yet somehow, the players blocked out the stench one more time. 
Our Cross-Country team had its best record in years, and the Soccer team 
found itself at the top of the PAC going in to its final game. But when the 
student-athletes took that big breath of air necessary to win THE big one, 
they were choked.
Are their second place finishes just a preview of better things to 
come, or will CMU find a home in second place finishes? This question 
can only be answered by our own Administration. They set the policy.
Given the proper support, through alumni contributions earmarked 
spedfiaIlly for sports, through encouraging policy decisions, and through 
University help in recruiting, Carnegie-Mellon will become the dominant 
power in the PAC. Only time will tell, but we are running out of that. We 
are choking to death.
Cross-Country Cops 
Second In PAC
Photo by Greg Nickel 
Ken Kloes, Cross-Country's MVP for the second straight year'.
the top ten: Ken Kloes, elected MVP for 
his second year, finished fifth to place on 
the all-PAC team, while Tony McKay and 
co-captain elect Greg Dewey finished 
seventh and eighth to make the all-PAC 
second team. These menc combined with 
the efforts of Hawkins, Greg Hyatt, Tom 
Silvis, and Bingham gave us our second 
place.
Only second place...especially after all 
Ive built this team up to be? Well Case is 
no pushover; they have benn undefeated in 
three years and have won the PAC con
ference championship for the last five 
years. Theyre a good strong team and cre
dit is placed where credit is due.
With limited finances and manpower, 
weve accomplished a lot: short of all our 
goals, amybe, but a good deal. For some of 
us its over; for the rest, the laces get laced 
tomorrow.
Wrestlers Open Practice
Jim brogan
Soccer Team Rallies to Tie; 
Finishes Second in PAC
Dennis Sullivan
Some 22 long weeks ago in the warmth 
of late spring, Ken Kloes laced up his shoes 
and started training as did many more of us 
for the 1972 Cross-Country season. On No
vember 4 that season ended, and for 
co-captain elect Steve Hawkins, Wayne 
Bingham and Dennis Sullivan, it was our 
last season.
But it was quite a season. Coming back 
from a 3-5 record last year, Coach 
Meckleys harriers blazed through course 
records and ended 11-2, losing only to one 
team in PAC competition. This team, Case 
Western Reserve, also stopped our first 
place bid for the PAC title, though Alle
gheny and the other teams could not stop 
us from taking second. Fridays warm sun
shine paralleled Saturdays freezing rain. 
The conditions certainly didnt help up; 
yet we still managed to place three men in
Hugo Bencic leads the attack on front of the Allegheny goal. Hugo 
had an assist on a second half goal which tied the game at 2-2.
Photo by Nick Lardas 
This photo shows some of the hard, fast action that makes 
wrestling one of CMU's most exciting spectator sports.
Jeff R. Englund
In most cases a tie is good, or at worst, 
neutral. But last Saturday, the soccer Tar
tans 2-2 stalemate with Allegheny was 
about as good as a loss to them. Not to 
disregard our efforts, for we came back 
twice in the game, but it was a shame that 
Big Red couldnt turn in the winning goal 
with so much riding on the game. We fin
ished at 4-1-2, a half game behind Bethany, 
and 7-3-2 overall.
Allegheny tied Bethany earlier in the 
season, and they did a fine job against 
CMU. They opened the first period scoring 
with Charleton heading in a pass from 
Downing. It wasnt long, though before 
CMUs Thanos Layios fired one in over 
Alleghenys prostrate goalie, who was div
ing at Hugo Bencics shot. Charleton once 
again gave the visitors a one goal edge, this 
time on a corner kick from Fanning, and at
half time the score stood 2-1.
With twenty minutes gone in the second 
half, the CMU crowd came to their feet as 
Dave Fry put Hugo Bencics pass in to thie 
the game at 2-2. But the phrase a brand 
new ballgame meant nothing here, be
cause only a win would give us the con
ference championship, a deadlock with 
which supposedly would be broken on the 
basis of our having won more games over
all. Ther Tartans drove and blocked hard 
through the remainder of the half, and 
then through the 2 five minute overtimes, 
but they were equalled in offense and de
fense the whole way by Allegheny. The 
game, and the season, ende in a tie, 2-2.
So, CMU narrowly missed its first major 
sports title since the early fifties. Varsity 
soccer is young at Tech, though, and next 
year, Peter Moses will lead a number of this 
years Tartans back for another try.
Jeff R. Englund 
Coach Paul Stevas wrestlers had their 
first official practice last Wednesday at 
6:30 in Thistle Hall. Theyll be entering 
their third year of varsity competion this 
winter. Mr. Steva says there was quite a bit 
of improvement between the first two
years, and this year looks for this trend to 
keep growing.
But, he realizes that this will not be an 
easy job. He says that the major obstacles 
to putting together a winning wrestling 
team at CMU are the lack of recruiting 
continued on page 23

---------------------------------------------------

Hockey Season Underway; Gridders w-in
Looking for League Title eStudnPo litPc
by David Girdany
The Carnegie-Mellon Hockey Club 
opened its season unofficially on Tuesday, 
October 31, with an impressive 8-5 victory 
over the Polish Army. The final score does 
not indicate the ease with which the 
Tartans handled their opponents.
This years team shows much improve
ment over last years team. Returning are 
last years scoring leaders, Mike Ken
worthy, Rich Eastman, and Jim Powers, 
and also goalie Jeff Hart. In addition, a 
number of new faces will play a key role in 
the teams future. These include Joe Molnar, Rick Farman, Mike Galloway, Jeff 
Jacobs and Leroy Bauer.
Two top-notch forward lines will score 
many goals this season. One has Ken
worthy at center, with Gallaway at left 
wing and Johnny Hauser at right wing. The 
other line is centered by Powers, and has 
Molnar on the left and Jacobs on the right.
Two capable lines form the back-up for the 
first two. They are Pichai, Russ Wescoe, 
and Jeff Thompson and Bill Bures, Rich 
Chassen and Tom Lampl. Farman, East
man, Bauer, A1 Leff, and Joe Graves 
compose the defense. Frank Sciulli and 
Larry Gordon are capable replacements for 
Hart in goal. Rounding out the squad are 
Bob Kozarek, Jerry Hutchison, Mark 
McHugh, Jim Sekela, and Bert Schnitzler.
The Tartans have a good chance of de
throning Pitt as league champion this year. 
However, stiff competition will be provi
ded by Duquesne and Indiana. (The first 
Duquesne game was played on Sunday and 
will be described next week.) Outside the 
league, look forward to exciting games 
with Gannon, Penn State (main campus), 
and possibly Navy and Maryland. In sum
mary, Coach Larry Jacobs hockey club 
will provide an outstanding, exciting season 
for its fans. So lets support our team!
yCmh,doa vsr
1BBBBK
Photo by Nick Lardas
Player-Coach Peter Moses shows that there is 
more to soccer than just fancy footwork.
continued from page 22
power, steeming from lack of proper 
funding, which in intself cuases many prob
lems, and the heavy academic requirements 
on the athletes. He considers wrestling the 
roughest sport, pound for pound, for the 
time and energy put in. One is moving 
almost contiually out on the mat, and he 
compares wrestling on 8 minute match to 
playing a whole football game, where a 
player neednt participate in, and can rest 
after, every play.
A squad of fifteen, including five return
ing lettermen, is looked for this year. Back 
are Ken Sauter, Mike Veltri, Steve Etkin, 
and co-captains Clyde Ligons, still playing 
football, and VIC Rodgers, who is rapidly 
becoming the Cinderella success story of 
the wrestling program. Highly touted fresh
man Brad Morrow of Peters Township, 
who was injured in his last high school 
match, destroying his hopes for rapid ad
vancement in post-season tournaments, will 
vie for a position along with several other 
freshmen prospects. Lenny Jones, a Pitts
burgh minister who is active in many cam
pus activities, has volunteered to help and 
give Coach Steva a chance to wrap up his 
activities as Head Trainer with the football 
team, and graduate studen George Brinser 
is also in hand to aid the team.
The Tartans schedule is similar to the 
past two years with the exception that his 
year, according to Coach Steva, our team is 
no longer a walkover. He says every man 
practicing is a dedicated, willing worker 
with the desire and potential to win. Our 
toughest opponent in the PAC should be
Photo by Nick Lardas 
Vic Rodgers, standing, is the victim 
of a single leg takedown.
champion John Carroll, but, like in 
Croos-Country, the conference title is de
cided by a tournament at the seasons end, 
where iver team is given a new chance to 
win.
The grid Tartans, surviving a last minute 
comeback bid, held out for a 16-8 win at 
Washington & Jefferson, Saturday. Facing 
the prospect of a possible tie, which would 
ruin CMUs PAC title hopes, the Tartan 
defense turned back W&J four times from 
the Tech 3 yard line, with less than a 
minute left in tne game. Carnegie roared 
out in the first half and dominated the 
game. Drives of 50 and 87 yards and a two 
point conversion gave the Tartans a 14 - 0 
halftime lead. Running back Chris OLeary 
scampered three yards for the first score 
and QB Ron Shinault dived over from the 
one yard line for the second. John Radic 
ran the two point conversion, breaking into 
the endzone unscathed. The second half 
started slowly. CMU did not move the ball 
until early in the fourth quarter when the 
Tartans drove to the one yard line, only tc 
fumble away the chance. Tech got on the 
scoreboard though, when tackle Phi 
LaGatta knifed through the Prexie line to
stick the W&J back for a safety. With the 
score 16-0 it looked like CMU would cost 
home with the victory. W&J came back, as 
linebacker Ed Webbley jarred the ball from 
Shinault and walzed 32 yards for the tally. 
W&Js Don Ozimek ran the conversion to 
make the score 16-8. W&J got the ball back 
with about four minutes left. Th^y drove 
to the one, but the Tech defense repulsed 
the attack and the final was CMU 16 - W&J 
8. The Tartan defense was again out
standing. In five PAC games CMU has al
lowed only 31 points, about onr touch
down a game. The tough Tatrtan D has 
swiped 16 passes and 10 fumbles. The de
fense meets its stiffest test next Saturday 
when Tech entertains the Thiel Tomcats. 
Thiel leads the PAC, following their deci
sive victory over Allegheny last week. The 
Tartans, with their 5-2 conference record 
will be gunning for a conference tie. Vic
tories in their last two games would give 
Tech a 5-2 PAC record and assure them of 
a share of the league lead.
wrct news mon-thurs at 7:30
news specials
Va city news triday at 6:15
tartan basketball
m ate information news hourly
tartan football
campus events live
perspective: emu
TK /SW IT HAPPENS
YOU'RE TIEPETO KNOUT
WRCT NEWS/9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 7, 1972
the TARTAN
the STUDENT GALLERY
the CAMERA EXCHANGE
the CARNEGIE MELLON VWCA
bring you
A PHOTO CONTEST
CATEGORIES
PE0PLE gh_______EVENTS 
STILL LIFES and 
LANDSCAPESPHOTOS MUST BE 
MOUNTED, PRINT 
SIZE LIMIT 11 x 14 
3 PRINTS PER ENTRANT
CONTEST INFORMATION AND ENTRY FORMS AT TARTAN OFFICE, 
YWCA OFFICE.AND SKIBO INFORMATION DESK .
Prizes 
In Each Category
Special Edition of TARTAN Will Carry Best Photos
Student Gallery will display photos
pwhh EXCHANGE: 8711 FORBES AVE. and 5432 WALNUT SI.
