Inside
.............L5
..............4
Sports.........................................10
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu/
ForumFeaturesI i /Tfr]
Is 21 worth the wait?Get worldly experience at school
 see page 5 see page LI
Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff
This is the last issue 
of The Tartan this 
semester. Happy 
Holidays!THE TARTAN
Volume 93, Issue 12Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190623 November 199S
CMU takes first in EDS international challenge
By SRINIVAS PULLELATartan Junior Staffwriter
At this years Electronic Data Sys
tems Case Challenge business case 
competition, held in Plano, Texas from 
November 4 to November 7, Carnegie 
Mellons team placed first out of 48
Administration selects four students 
every year to represent Carnegie Mell
on at the Case Challenge. Twenty-two 
students applied for the team this year.
This year, Evelyn Pierce, lecturer in 
Business Communications and faculty 
advisor to the Case team, was in charge 
of the selection process.
Lisette Miller-Dlxon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Team members competed with students from across the country.
undergraduate teams that competed. 
The winning team was comprised of 
senior industrial management and 
economics double major Inigo 
Amoribieta, junior industrial manage
ment major Ali Ardalan, senior infor
mation and decisions systems major 
Sarah Campen, and junior business 
administration and Japanese double 
major Jason Scharfman.
The annual Case Challenge, spon
sored by the multinational informa
tion technology consulting firm Elec
tronic Data Systems (EDS), is a fourday international competition in which 
students work together in teams to 
analyze a realistic business problem, 
develop and refine an effective solu
tion, and present it to a panel of judges. 
Scholarships are awarded to the three 
strongest teams.
The Case Challenge is an opportu
nity for the students that are coming 
from our targeted universities to com
pete for scholarships in an educational 
enhancement experience. They have 
the chance to learn about business 
opportunities and developing business 
proposals, said Scott Wilson, head of 
National Campus Relations at EDS.
The Graduate School of Industrial
Students had to submit their resumes 
and an essay on how they thought they 
could add value to this Case competition 
team and what the experience could do 
for them, said Pierce.
On the basis of these applications, 12 
students were eliminated from the ini
tial applicant pool. Pierce then began to 
formulate well-rounded groups of four 
from among these students.
I had to have a team that was also 
strong in finance, marketing, and pro
duction, said Pierce. According to Pierce, 
the most difficult part of the selection 
process was eliminating certain students 
who she knew to be highly qualified, but 
who may not have been the best fit for 
the team.
After team selection, preparation for 
the competition began.
We practiced on older EDS cases used 
at past competitions, reviewed presen
tation skills on video, and drilled our
selves on the kinds of audience ques
tions that clients generally have when 
working with consultants, said Pierce.
The students also conducted mock in
terviews with graduate students and 
gave two practice presentations to a 
group of faculty judges.
Please see COMPETITION, page 3
EMS call leads to search of DTD
By ELLEN BELDNERTartan Contributing Editor
Last Saturday around 11:30 pm, CMU 
Campus Police searched Delta Tau 
Delta (DTD) after CMU EMS responded 
to a call that a first-year student who 
had been at the DTD party became ill. 
According to Campus Police; the stu
dent had reported to police that she 
suspected her drink might have been 
laced with a drug such as Rohypnol.
We received a call from EMS that a 
young lady was in need of medical 
assistance, and she identified Delta 
Tau Delta as the location where she 
had been, said Campus Police Chief 
James LaPaglia. She also indicated 
that there might be other people at the 
house in medical distress. Lapaglia 
said that it is a routine EMS procedure 
to contact Campus Police in alcoholrelated medical calls.
We didnt find anyone else in the 
house who was in medical distress, 
and we found no concrete evidence to 
support [the claim] that substances 
were present. But there were suspi
cions on the part of the person that 
something had been put in her drink, 
said LaPaglia.
DTD president and junior math major 
Matt Lindner said that the fraternity 
cooperated with Campus Police, but that 
there was no evidence that any sub
stances had been slipped into the 
womans drink.
It was a situation where someone had 
had too much to drink, and they went to 
the hospital, said Lindner. At that point, 
the police thought there might have been 
something fishy. So they stopped the 
party and searched the house, but they 
didnt find anything. DTD is a substancefree house. We wont tolerate [the pres
ence of roofies] at all. And our house has 
taken action to educate our members so 
things like that wont happen.... We just 
want to make sure everyone is having fun 
and staying safe.
The student was taken to the hospital, 
where she was administered substancedetection tests. Anita Barkin, director of 
Health Services, said that tests take ten 
business days to process.
Weve been talking to other campus
police departments about this, and weve 
found that theyve seen cases where 
people suspected that substances were 
put in their drinks, but it turned out to' 
be just alcohol. However, there is defi-! 
nitely an ongoing investigation,n. 
LaPaglia said.
Adam Morgan, a sophomore chemical 
engineering major who was at the party, 
said that the search of the dance floor 
took about 20 mintues. [Campus Po
lice] walked around the dance floor with 
flashlights, he said. They were search
ing the ground; they werent really look
ing at people at all.... Then they told the 
DJ to turn on the lights and turn off 
music. They wouldnt let anyone leave 
until they were finished.
Saturdays incident occurs in the wake 
of widespread campus rumors about in
creased incidents involving roofies and 
other similar substances. Posession of 
drugs such as roofies and GHB is a felony, 
and Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy said that the University will 
pursue the harshest criminal penalties 
possible, including expulsion, if a stu
dent is found possessing these substances.Forum warns students of drug abuse
By BRIAN SMITHTartan Sports Editor
CMUs Student Government and the 
Division of Student Affairs held a Uni
versity Forum last Thursday in an 
effort to educate the Carnegie Mellon 
student body about the threat of date 
rape drugs. The forum, which was 
titled Roofies, Liquid X, Special K: It 
happened on jER, could it happen here? 
focused on CMUs approach to treat
ment and education on the topic, as 
well as the problem of drug abuse at 
CMU in general.
The drugs in question include 
Rohypnol (roofies), GHB (liquid X), 
Burundanga, and Ketamine (special 
K). They are colorless and odorless 
and can be laced into drinks, candy, 
chewing gum, and virtually any other 
food or drink. Once ingested, the drugs 
work quickly, putting the user into a 
trance-like state and often causing a 
loss of consciousness, leaving the user 
vulnerable to sexual attacks.
I can confirm the existence of these 
drugs on campus, said Health Ser
vices Health Educator Jeff Lauzon re
garding the date rape drugs, includ
ing roofies. However, Lauzon explained 
that he is not aware of any specific 
incidents on campus where the drugs 
were used for sexual assault. Ive only
seen it for personal recreation, he said.
In fact, of the six students who were 
tested for the drugs at CMU, none 
tested positive. However, Director of 
Health Services Anita Barkin does not 
see these statistics as a reason to dis
count the threat.
These drugs can kill, she said. 
[Heath Services] role in combating the 
drugs use is to increase awareness and 
teach prevention as well as treat those 
who have taken them.
Barkin and Lauzon, along with Pro
gram Director for the Chemical Abuse 
Program at Turtle Creek Valley Mental 
Heath/Mental Retardation, Inc. Jack 
DeWitt, senior psychology major, and 
Head of Sexual Assault Advising Maria 
Muti, and senior physics major and Stu
dent Body Vice President Will Toraason 
outlined steps that can be taken to lessen 
students exposure to the drugs and help 
eliminate involuntary consumption.
When you go to a party, keep your 
drink with you at all times, said Muti. 
Dont accept drinks you did not see 
poured. In addition, she said drinks 
with unusual taste or appearance should 
be avoided.
You cannot fully protect yourself from 
things like this, said Toraason. Just 
use common sense.
In addition, Muti recommends that 
those throwing throwing parties serve
drinks in individual containers or cans. 
This would reduce the risk of somone 
spiking the drink and eliminate the 
punchbowl scenerio where anyone can 
put anything into a communal drink.
Lauzon said he sees unique factors 
that contribute to drug use at Carnegie 
Mellon. People perceive that they are 
under a huge amount of stress and turn 
to drugs and alcohol to relieve them
selves of the stress, he said. Although 
we may not see parties as often as other 
campuses, people think that when they 
do drink, they have to drink harder. I 
think that they perceive that it is okay to 
drink and puke. It is part of the senti
ment that there is nothing else to do 
around here. According to Lauzon this 
sentiment extends to the recreational 
use of drugs like roofies.
One of the critical steps to combating 
the problem is increased education 
of Carnegie Mellon students. Weve hit 
a greater number of the people this se
mester than all of last year, said Lauzon. 
Recently, the Greek community has voted 
it mandatory for all members to attend 
a forum on the subject of date rape 
drugs and Health Services holds pro
grams for RAs and departments upon 
request. As a supplement, Health 
Services has distributed posters to de
partments and residence life staff to in
crease awareness.Organizations lose funding after violations
By SRIRAM GOLLAPALLITartan Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, Student Sen
ate issued punishments for the 
Asian Students Association (ASA) 
and Korean Students Association 
(KSA) in response to a violation 
regarding alcohol. In an open meet
ing, both ASAandKSAwere down
graded to non-funded, recognized 
organization status. In addition, 
Student Senate as a whole ceased 
funding from the subsidized Ac
tivity Fees for both organizations. 
This decision came from the Fund
ing and Recognition Committee 
and Keith Rothschild, student 
body treasurer.
ASA will have the option to 
reapply for funding in January. 
However, I dont see the funding 
happening, said Drew Stovall, 
chair of Student Senate and se
nior physics major.
Their punishment stems from 
a party held on September 5 in 
their special interest group house 
on campus. Campus Police shut 
the party down at approximately
11 pm. A door fee was being
charged for entrance and alco
holic beverages were being sold 
inside. The fees being charged 
were in violation of University 
policy. ASA president Raymond 
Li said that the organization was 
unaware of the policy.
KSA received a more strict pun
ishment. On January 31, 1999, 
KSA must replace their entire 
executive council with new mem
bers. At that point, the Funding 
and Recognition committee will 
review the turnover in manage
ment. If it is not approved, KSA 
will be dropped to a nonrecog
nized organization on campus.
The Funding and Recognition 
committee will have to approve 
all executive member changes in 
KSA from now until January 31, 
2000, said Michael Strauss, Stu
dent Senator and senior computer 
science major. KSA will also lose 
any office or carrel space in the 
University Center until Novem
ber 18, 2000.
KSAs punishment is the result 
of a party that they held on Sep
tember 11 at Ginza Korean and 
Japanese Restaurant on Atwood
Street in Oakland. At approxi
mately 1:40 am Campus Police 
responded to a call of a drunken 
student who had been dropped 
off in More wood Parking Lot. The 
student had been taken there by 
someone at the party.
Campus Police contacted Pitts
burgh Police since the restaurant 
was outside of their jurisdiction. 
The party was then broken up, 
and an investigation into who 
provided the alcohol began.
Both organizations can apply 
for special funding for certain 
events if the need arises.
Special funding is given to 
onetime events that will benefit 
the entire campus community, 
said Stovall.
The possibility of non-recogni
tion for both organizations came 
up during the decision making 
process, said Strauss. There was 
a tie vote on this for KSA, and it 
was voted against by the chair.
There are three types of organi
zations on campus in terms of 
student senate. The nonrecog
nized organization is a group of 
people who meet and conduct activities but are not formally rec
ognized by the University. The 
non-funded, recognized organiza
tion can have a carrel in the Uni
versity Center, is allowed to 
poster around campus, and can 
reserve a room for meetings. In 
addition to those privileges, 
funded, recognized organizations 
are allowed to budget for a subsi
dized portion of the activities fund 
at the beginning of the year.
I'm shocked at this, said Sam 
Park, vice president of the Korean 
Students Association and fifth 
year business and economics se
nior. Our organization was try
ing to promote an event that stayed 
away from this kind of thing. As 
officers, we are trying our best for 
Koreans and non Koreans to have 
fun without alcohol.
The KSA never bought or fur
nished any of the alcohol, said 
Ryan Li, KSA president and jun
ior social and decisions major. 
The student senate should have 
tried other avenues to get in touch 
with us  at least a phone call. I 
will strongly look into any sort of 
appeal process.
Fresh from the Loom.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager
The Frame was filled with underwear last week as part of its exhibit.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 1998
Page 2...
President urges North Korea to make peace
SEOUL, South Korea (AP)Warn
ing North Korea to forsake nuclear 
weapons, President Clinton showed 
off American military power in a preThanksgiving visit with troops on 
watch near the worlds most heavily 
guarded border.
Clinton spoke Saturday of a strong 
suspicion that an underground con
struction project in the communist 
North that is barred from U.S. inspec
tion is nuclear related.
Saying the United States has an 
unshakable alliance with Seoul, 
Clinton urged North Korea to seize 
an historic opportunity for peace 
extended by South Korean President 
Kim Dae-jung in his policy of engage
ment with his neighbor.
Kim said North Korea is cautiously 
but noticeably taking measures to in
crease interaction and cooperation. 
But Kim, in office less than a year, 
said he and Clinton agreed that we 
will not tolerate any possible attempt 
of North Korea to proliferate nuclear 
weapons, missiles, and other weapons 
of mass destruction.
The two leaders spoke at a news 
conference at the Blue House, Seouls 
presidential residence named for its 
roof of blue ceramic tiles. Later, they 
toasted each other at a dinner in a 
state guest house.
Security worries and Asias economic 
collapse were Clintons top themes in 
South Korea, as they were earlier in 
Japan. He urged Korea to continue to 
open its markets, resist protectionism 
and prevent unfair trade practices in 
sensitive sectors like steel and semi
conductors.
He also saluted Seouls struggle to 
overcome Asias economic upheaval. 
I believe Asia will emerge from this 
present crisis more prosperous, more 
stable, more democratic  thanks in 
no small measure to Koreas example. 
Clinton managed a bit of relaxation 
.during his visit with a surprise latenight stop Saturday at a concert featuringhis brother, Roger, and his band. 
The president listened to songs off
stage at the Sejong Culture Center 
until Roger Clinton introduced his 
brother as a very special person. The 
audience of2,000 stood and applauded.
On security, new unease was raised 
by photos from a U.S. spy satellite 
that show thousands of North Ko
rean workers digging a huge hole in a 
mountainside at Keumjongri, 25 miles 
northeast of North Koreas main 
nuclear complex, Yongbyon. North 
Korea rebuffed U.S. appeals to in
spect it, demanding $300 million for 
the privilege. Clinton has rejected 
that idea.
Directing his remarks at North Ko
rea, Clinton noted a new tourism deal 
that is taking South Koreans to the 
North on cruise ships - an arrangement 
touted by Kim as a sign the North may 
be opening up to its midcentury enemy. 
He contrasted the ship arrangement 
with the suspected nuclear project.
Nothing could ever be put into that 
hole in the ground, given our defense 
partnership here, nothing could ever 
be put in that hole in the ground that 
would give the North Koreans as much 
advantage, as much power, as much 
wealth, as much happiness, as more 
of those ships going up there full 
of people from here, Clinton said 
with fervor.
Kim urged North Korea to take steps 
to clear the suspicion surrounding 
the underground site. We must be 
firm on these issues. He said that if 
the project is proven to be nuclear 
related, We should demand immedi
ate closedown.
Clinton warned that if North Korea 
continues to rebuffU.S. inspection, Con
gress likely would have a great reluc
tance to continue paying for fuel oil and 
nuclear reactor programs in the North.
It would be a sad thing indeed if, for 
no good end over the long run, the 
North Koreans would make it impos
sible to go forward, he said.
U.N. carries out 
Iraqi inspections
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)  U.N. inspec
tors paid a surprise visit to a suspected 
weapons site on Saturday, the first such 
inspection since Iraq blocked their work 
completely on October 31.
The official Iraqi News Agency said 
that a missile team made the unan
nounced stop at the location to check 
the monthly declaration of its output.
The agency did not identify the site, 
but the report suggested the facility was 
one that U.N. inspectors and their Iraqi 
escorts had visited in the past.
The Iraqi side has provided all 
necessary assistance, the agency 
said, quoting General Hussam 
Mohammed Amin, head of the National 
Monitoring Authority, which provides es
corts for the U.N. inspectors.
The U.N. Special Commission or 
UNSCOM has refused to talk to report
ers about its inspections since it re
sumed work Wednesday, a day after the 
inspectors returned from Bahrain where 
they had been evacuated during the 
threat of U.S. missile strikes.
Surprise inspections have always been 
the most contentious issue between 
UNSCOM and Iraq. On August 5, Iraq 
refused to provide escorts for such mis
sions, but allowed U.N. inspectors to go 
to previously declared sites to continue 
monitoring work. On October 31, Iraq 
halted all UNSCOM visits.
Iraqs National Monitoring Authority 
said the U.N. team and International 
Atomic Energy Agency inspectors vis
ited a number of sites on Saturday to 
check equipment. The visits were pre
sumed to concern cameras and sensors 
installed to monitor activity.
Amin also said an American U-2 plane 
violated Iraqi skies many times on Sat
urday, the agency reported.
The U.N. inspectors use the U-2 jets 
for aerial surveillance.
Meanwhile, a new controversy 
emerged when Iraq appeared to be re
luctant to'fulfill UNSCOMs latest re
quest for weapons documents, less than 
a week after the United States canceled 
its planned attack.
The United States and Britain had
planned airstrikes to force Baghdad to 
reverse its October 31 decision to block 
inspections. On November 14, Iraq agreed 
to allow inspections to resume in a state
ment that pledged full cooperation with 
UNSCOM.
UNSCOM chief Richard Butler 
promptly wrote to Baghdad asking it to 
hand over documents related to Iraqs 
chemical and biological programs.
U.N. officials say that in reply, Iraqi 
Deputy Foreign Minister Riyadh al-Qaisi 
has said Butlers request seems 
to be provocative rather than professional.
In Seoul on Saturday, U.S. National 
Security Adviser Sandy Berger said the 
United States believed Iraq was obliged 
to hand over the documents and would 
back Butler in his request.
If we reach the conclusion that the 
answer to those questions is negative, 
we obviously are prepared to act, 
Berger said.
The inspectors are charged with over
seeing the elimination of Iraqs weapons 
of mass destruction, a process Baghdad 
must complete before the U.N. Security 
Council will lift the sweeping sanctions 
imposed after the 1990 invasion of Ku
wait, which sparked the Gulf War.
Police think they 
have Spiderman
MIAMI (AP)  Police believe Derrick 
James is Spiderman  a burglar who 
has scaled high-rise luxury condomini
ums to steal millions of dollars in jewels, 
computers and cash.
James says detectives have been read
ing too many comic books.
I am not the Spiderman, James said 
Friday in a jailhouse interview. I dont 
know who the Spiderman is.
Police say Spiderman used powerful 
arms and legs to climb as many as 30 
stories in his heists. James .said hes 5 
foot 8, 180 pounds and no example of 
superhuman power.
They portray me to be this muscular 
person, he said. Do I look muscular to 
you?
He pulled up the short sleeves on his 
red prison jump suit to reveal his biceps. 
Normal arms, he said.
Police have charged James, 33, with 
the burglary of a seventh-floor condo on
Miamis ritzy Brickell Avenue. The loot: 
$60, a laptop computer, and $5,000 in 
jewels.
Investigators say Spiderman is re
sponsible for 132 other burglaries, 
stealing more than $6 million in jew
elry from high-rise waterfront condos 
from Cocoa Beach to Miami Beach. 
The Florida Department of Law En
forcement said it has given prosecu
tors fingerprints and other evidence 
linking James to many of the crimes. 
Prosecutor Kathleen George said Fri
day that she expects more charges to 
be filed.
James said no man is capable of 
doing that. How much sense does that 
make?
The suspect asked his attorney 
to schedule the news conference 
at the Miami-Dade County Jail 
because he wanted to tell his side of 
the story.
He has a lengthy criminal record, in
cluding convictions for burglary, theft 
and credit card fraud, but said his past 
has nothing to do with his current 
predicamenteven his past training as 
an 82nd Airborne paratrooper.
Theres no special training to climb 
buildings and mountains, James said. 
A paratrooper comes down. He doesnt 
go up.
Judge in Denver 
causes anxiety
DENVER (AP)When the court clerk 
read the message from the judge, she 
wasnt about to take any chances.
The clerk immediately called 911 af
ter receiving a note from Denver County 
Judge Claudia Jordan on Friday that 
said: Blind on the right side. May be 
falling. Please call someone.
Informed that paramedics were on the 
way, Jordan let out a cry of dismay and 
pointed to the sagging Venetian blinds 
on the right side of the courtroom.
I didnt want anyone to get hurt. I 
wanted someone from maintenance, 
Jordan said.
When stretcher-toting paramedics 
entered the courtroom, Jordan inter
rupted a drunken-driving case she was 
presiding over to say she was OK and to 
thank people for their concern.
Local newspaper investigates violations of federal prosecutors
PITTSBURGH ( AP)Federal 
agents and prosecutors around 
the country have repeatedly 
broken the law over the past 
decade in pursuit of convictions, 
: the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette said 
.it found as the result of a two
-year investigation.
The newspaper, in a 10-part 
series that begins Sunday, 
said it found examples of pros
ecutors lying, hiding evidence, 
distorting the facts, engaging in 
cover-ups, payingfor perjury, and 
setting up innocent people to win 
indictments, guilty pleas, and 
convictions.
Federal officials rarely were 
punished for their misconduct, 
despite the fact that they caused 
some victims to lose their jobs, 
assets, and even families, the
newspaper said. It also reported 
that some victims went to prison 
because prosecutors withheld 
favorable evidence or allowed 
fabricated testimony, while 
some criminals walked free 
as a reward for conspiring with 
the government.
Its a result-oriented process 
today, fairness be damned, said 
Robert Merkle, who served as a 
U.S. attorney in Florida from 1982 
to 1988 and is now a defense 
lawyer in Tampa. The philoso
phy of the past 10 to 15 years (is) 
that whatever works is whats 
right, he told the Post-Gazette.
The U.S. Justice Department, 
which oversees federal prosecu
tors, denied the newspapers al
legations. Our prosecutors live 
by strict, comprehensive, and effective ethics rules, Myron Mar
lin, a department spokesman in 
Washington, told The Associated 
Press. They are governed by the 
rules in the states where they are 
licensed, the courts where the 
case is tried, and by federal regu
lation as well. Our office that 
oversees prosecutorial conduct 
(Office of Professional Responsi
bility) reviews every complaint 
and vigorously pursues prosecu
tors who cross the line.
During the newspapers inves
tigation, the Justice Depart
ment did not respond to ques
tions it posed in writing, nor 
would it return phone calls re
questing comment.
The Post-Gazette said the prob
lems have worsened as Congress 
has eliminated many of the checks
and balances designed to prevent 
the abuse of power. For instance, 
federal sentencing guidelines say 
a person who pleads guilty to a 
crime and is cooperative should 
receive a lesser sentence than 
someone who fights a charge and 
is convicted at trial.
The courts used to be a buffer 
between prosecutors and the 
rights of defendants, saidBennett 
Gershman, a former New York 
State prosecutor who teaches law 
at Pace University. They are now 
simply a rubber stamp.
No matter what offense a fed
eral prosecutor may commit in 
pursuing an investigation, a 
criminal defendant is practically 
powerless to sue for damages, the 
newspaper found.
The Post-Gazette also said it
found hundreds of examples of 
abuse in discovery, which re
quires that federal prosecutors 
turn over to criminal defendants 
any evidence that might help 
prove the defendants innocence 
or show lack of credibility on the 
part of prosecution witnesses.
Representative John Murtha, 
D-Pennsylvania, tried to rein in 
federal prosecutors with legisla
tion called the Citizens Protection 
Act, which would have established 
an independent oversight board 
to monitor federal prosecutors and 
require them to abide by state 
ethics laws. It also provided sanc
tions against prosecutors who 
knowingly committed misconduct.
Murtha decided to draft the leg
islation after watching an eightyear federal investigation nearly
destroy Representative Joseph 
McDade, R-Pennsylvania, who in 
1996 was acquitted of charges that 
he accepted gifts from defense com
panies in exchange for helping 
them win lucrative contracts.
That case made me recognize 
the tremendous power a prosecu
tor has. I could see that if they 
did this to a Joe McDade, an ordi
nary citizen has no chance, 
Murtha said.
The House of Representative 
approved the legislation in Au
gust by a vote of 345-82. But the 
bill became part of the federal 
appropriations package that Con
gress passed in October, and the 
Justice Department managed to 
have all but one provision killed 
in the conference committee that 
crafted the budget bill.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, December 8, 
1948  The student council made 
a major proposal in what was called 
one of the few examples of really 
efficient work done by Council all 
year. A report was presented on 
how keys awards for student.activities should be presented. Keys 
made up of the letters CIT in gold 
would be limited to one per student 
and would only be awarded to stu
dents that had demonstrated a 
large role in an extracurricular 
activity on campus.
Other proposals at the meet
ing included changes in the 
Councils constitution and the 
approval of dances after varsity 
basketball games.
25 YEARS AGO, November 
20,1973The Universitys divi
sion of operations made a deci
sion to remove the pinball machines located outside the Tartan 
Grill, a campus eatery. The ma
chines were supposedly attract
ing undesirable elements 
though their original purpose was 
to benefit students.
The decision came because offcampus people were coming to 
use the machines and were caus
ing trouble for the Grill manage
ment. In addition, there had been 
previous problems with people 
vandalizing the machines.
10 YEARS AGO, November 22, 
1988  The Faculty Senate 
unanimously passed a motion 
recommending that the SCS 
(School of Computer Science) be 
created. There had been various 
concerns as to the status of the 
Computer Science Department, 
which was becoming increasingly 
isolated from the University.
Other concerns for the new school 
included course requirements, 
financial support, and the level of 
adminstrative support.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Novem
ber 22, 1993  In a special ses
sion of Student Senate, anger 
flared as the body decided 
whether or not to invalidate the 
results of the senate election that 
had taken place two weeks prior.
The senates Election Board rec
ommended the invalidation of the 
elections in lieu of the number of 
write-in candidates that were 
posted at the polling place by one 
of the Election Boards members. 
The question raised was whether 
or not this list had affected the 
outcome of the elections.
Two students were accused of 
posting the list and another mem
ber for circling names of graduate students on that list, The de
cision was eventually made not 
to invalidate the election results.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 
24, 1997  CMU publicly an
nounced its capital campaign to 
the Pittsburgh community. Presi
dent Jared Cohon reported that 
the University had collected $227.8 
million till that point and aimed to 
raise $350 million by 2000.
The funds were to be put to
wards things such as scholar
ships, building projects, the 
Purnell Center, and support for 
strategic initiatives.
Major contributions to the fund 
came from such organizations as 
the Heinz Endowments and the 
Intel Corporation.
Compiled by 
ISH HARSHAWAT

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 19983CMU offers Indian history course for spring semester
By ISH HARSHAWATTartan Assistant News Editor
Next semester the University is intro
ducing a new course through the history 
department entitled India: Anthropo
logical and Historical Perspectives. The 
new course will be taught by Marie 
Norman, a visiting instructor from the 
University of Pittsburgh who currently 
teaches an Introduction to Anthropol
ogy course at CMU.
The introduction of this course comes 
after a recent survey conducted by Kush 
Tyagi, a junior in electrical and com
puter engineering, to gauge student in
terest in increasing diversity within the 
Universitys curriculum.
The survey went really well, he said, 
I ended up getting 450 responses over 
four days. Tyagi will tabulate the re
sults of the survey over the Thanksgiv
ing vacation. He also said, I'm really 
excited about the Indian History course. 
Hopefully this will be a stepping stone 
for the faculty to create more cultural 
courses in general."
Steven Schlossman, the head of the 
History Department said that the pur
pose of this course is not necessarily to 
survey Indian history. According to 
Schlossman, the course fulfills the an
thropology and history program in two 
ways. First it will combine history and 
anthropology in an interdiscplinary 
style. Second, it will broaden the cover
age of the programs to other areas of the
world. Ive wanted to do [the course] for 
a while, but couldnt find a person to 
hire, said Schlossman. Now we have 
someone that can do it.
Norman also teaches a course at the 
University of Pittsburgh entitled Cultures 
and Societies of India that is within the 
anthropology department there. The focus 
of the new course offered at CMU will be on 
three issues  caste, gender, and kinship
 and how they function within India. 
Norman said that the course will start with 
a basic introduction to Indian history 
through some historical debates. From 
there, the course will draw upon ethnogra
phy, the style of writing that anthropolo
gists use to describe and analyze cultures. 
Norman said the course would be more 
qualitative than archival.
Norman has lived in Nepal for five 
years and has traveled within India. She 
said that she will bring to the classroom 
what she has learned during her time in 
South Asia. My experience in Nepal has 
given me the sense of pluralism in South 
Asia and how difficult it is to summarize 
anything in South Asia, she said.
My sense is that at CMU there are a 
lot of students of Asian descent, said 
Norman. They should be able to learn 
about their heritage.
Indira Nair, vice provost of Education, 
said the University is trying to become 
more internationally diverse for two rea
sons. The first is to cater to the large 
population of students of international 
origin, and the second is to study other 
areas of the world within an interna
tional context. She pointed towards other 
courses already in existence in Latin 
American and East Asian history, whieh 
provide examples of a goal that has been 
formulated within the last six years. -
Norman herself is excited about the 
course. I hope there is interest and 
enrollment is good and that I have a 
group of enthusiastic students, she said.
Schlossman and Norman both said 
that the course will continue based on 
student interest and demand in the fu
ture, said Norman. If they want it 
taught in the future, Id be happy to 
teach it again. She also stressed the 
point that in addition to Indians on cam
pus, other students should take the 
course and that no prior knowledge of 
Indian history is necessary.Long hours of preparation pay off for CMUs EDS team
COMPETITION, from page 1
Students were given one night to rest 
before the day of competition.
The preliminary round began on the 
morning of Thursday, November 5. The 
student teams were given a packet of 
information that described a case sce
nario briefly. This year, the case involved 
a hypothetical situation in which an air
line merger was not efficient because it 
had not integrated information databases 
from the two firms that merged.
In the first round, teams were allowed 
two interviews with clients and EDS 
executives for the purpose of collecting 
information about the case. Then, teams
had the remainder of the day and all 
night to analyze the case, develop a 
solution, and organize a presentation 
for the client.
On Friday morning, the teams pre
sented their various proposals to a panel 
of judges. Students had to be prepared to 
defend their solutions in the face of rig
orous questioning from the judges. 
Judges also looked for strong presenta
tion skills and group dynamics among 
the teams. A number of groups were 
eliminated in this first round. Sixteen of 
the initial 48 teams remained, and ad
vanced to the semifinals round.
The remaining four universities repre
sented in the final round were: Univer
sity of California at Berkeley, Marquette, 
Penn State, and Carnegie Mellon. Each 
of these teams had to make its final 
presentations to an audience of all the 
previously eliminated teams and a panel 
of senior EDS executive judges.
The competition at the semifinalist 
and finalist rounds was incredibly 
intense.This year, the CMU team had 
the benchmark to meet in truly the most 
competitive challenge in EDS history, 
said Wilson.
I couldnt believe that CMUs team 
wouldnt be rewarded for its superb 
level of detail. The team had a sup
ported answer to each and every ques
tion, with visual aids to back them up, 
said Pierce.
When the dust finally settled, Carn
egie Mellon emerged victorious. The 
judges noted that the Carnegie Mellon 
team had an unusual depth and breadth 
to their solution. According to Wilson, 
CMU was the best-prepared team and 
they had the most cohesive group dy
namics of any of the teams present.
Each of the four students on the win
ning team was awarded a trophy and a 
$5,000 scholarship from EDS. Students 
on the secondand third-place teams 
received $3,000 and $2,000 scholar
ships, respectively.
It was an intense three days, but its 
been the most enriching experience in 
college, said Amoribieta.
His teammates expressed similar en
thusiasm.
The EDS Case Challenge is the most 
exciting thing I have done during my 
four years at Carnegie Mellon 
Univeristy. I was really able to step 
into the shoes of a consultant at EDS) 
said Campen.
Ardalan said he learned a great deal 
from the Case Challenge experience and 
he recommends other students apply 
next year.Student Senate Minutes
Meeting of November 18,1998
SENATE
U'lQSQ]
Unofficial Minutes
Meeting was called to order at 
7:10 pm. Roll was taken at 7:10 
pm.
Senators Present: Anthe 
(CIT) - 0, Chang (MCS) - 0, Dai 
(CFA) - 1.5, Devine (HSS) - 0, 
Ditterline (CIT)1, Ferrick (HSS)
- 0, Jones (CFA) - 1, Koch (CIT)
- 3, Markle (CIT) - 0, Mccartin 
(CIT) -1, Merry (HSS) - 0, Mon
roe (CIT) -1, Moskowitz (HSS) -
0, Ng (CIT) - 0.5, Phelps (SCS) -
1, Silverman (MCS) - 1, Stovall 
(MCS) - 0, Strauss (SCS) - 0, 
Tassone (SCS) - 0
Senators Absent: ChanMendez (SIA) - 3, Gross (CIT) -
2, Guerra (CIT)-1.5, Guzy (HSS) 
-1, Hardjanto (SCS) - 2, Hutsko 
(MCS) - 2, Joshi (MCS) - 3, 
Kalafchi (SIA) -1.5, Meier (CIT)
- 3, Mekala (CIT) - 2, Shopper 
(CFA) -1, Tham (SIA) -1.5, Wei 
(HSS)-2, You (SIA)-2.5
Approval of Minutes: Min
utes for November 11 were 
amended and approved.
Audience Participation:
Anika Amin: I am here to talk 
about the Winter Conference 1999 
with the theme Explore, En
deavor, and Expand. Its the first 
Monday when we get back in 
January. The purpose of it is ac
tually to rejuvenate the second 
semester. The speaker is going to 
be Indira Nair, who was recently 
appointed vice provost of Educa
tion. We have several workshops 
that would benefit you in your 
academic life in CMU, such as on 
how to maximize your TA to get 
better grades that would be espe
cially important for first-year stu
dents and on what things you 
should do in looking for intern
ships or jobs after you graduate.
This program would basically 
benefit everybody from first-years 
to seniors. You should be seeing 
posters and signs around the cam
pus soon. It is a good program to
prepare students for life at CMU 
after a long holiday. If you have 
any questions, please email me 
at aamin@andrew.cmu.edu or 
contact Lisa Dingman.
Ex-Officio Reports:
Activities Board (Shubo 
Mookeijee): On December 2, the 
amazing James Randi, the magi
cian/investigator of psychic phe
nomena, is having a show in DH 
2315 at 7 pm.
If anyone wants to watch any 
movies next semester, email me 
as soon as possible because I am 
going to have a meeting to select 
the movies for next semester.
Student Body President (Sa
rah Gross): Denise and I went 
down to Pitt to check out the 
automatic voting booths. They 
had an amazing election with fli
ers, big banners, and booths. We 
are hoping to have the same thing 
here at CMU.
Town meetings were on Fri
day and Monday. There were 
about 30 people at each one. We 
got a lot of positive feedback and 
suggestions for next semester. 
Im hoping to have something 
similar to this.
Please email me if you have 
any questions.
Student Body Treasurer
(given by Keith Rothschild ): No 
report
Standing Committee Re
ports:
Academic Affairs (Amy Ng): 
I havent heard from the admin
istration. I did get the feedback 
that they started getting at 6 am 
on Monday from the seniors who 
are registering at that time. The 
feedback was positive. I noted 
that these students are not the 
ones unhappy with the changes 
to OLR because they had the op
portunity to register early. But I 
am waiting to hear more about 
the OLR issue. Other AA issues 
are still being looked into.
Campus Affairs (Neil Guzy): 
No report
Funding and Recognition
(Sern Tham): If there are any 
groups that want to be re-recog
nized, contact me at snafu@andrew.cmu.edu. The pro
cess of the re-recognition is that 
for a group to be re-recognized, 
they have to have a constitution.
Human Resources (Jamie 
Chang): First of all, a few an
nouncements: There is a new 
Senator list and the amended 
bylaws for Senators to pickup.
As Robb Moskowitz announced 
on the bboard, there are now email addresses for each Senate 
constituency. Please get the word 
out on these.
The bylaws amendments which 
were introduced last week will be 
debated and voted upon today. 
Since there has been very little 
comment on them over email and 
on the bboard, except for a few 
amendments that are to be of
fered, they should all go through 
very quickly.
At the HR meeting last week, 
the committee had a brainstorm
ing session on knowledge trans
fer between sessions of Senate. 
I plan on having a very short 
report for senate concerning 
knowledge transfer at the De
cember 2 meeting.
If anyone would like a synopsis 
of the brainstorming session, 
please email me. We also dis
cussed a few changes to the by
laws proposals and approved all 
of them.
Tomorrow is Human Resources 
first scheduled meeting. We will 
be synthesizing our work on 
knowledge transfer, brainstorm
ing ideas for binders for next ses
sion, discussing a constitutional 
amendment concerning the hold
ing of petty cash by organiza
tions, and discussing how the ses
sion went.
Direct any questions concern
ing the Human Resources Com
mittee or its issues to chang@andrew.cmu.edu, or call 
x2-2695.
Public Relations (Joshua 
Merry): Town meetings on Fri
day and Monday went smoothly. 
The last radio show is going to be 
on December 2,1998.1 would like 
to get as many senators as pos
sible so please show up on 
Wednesday at 6-7 pm.
Chair (Drew Stovall): We are 
going to have one last meeting on 
December 2 at 6:30 pm. It is going 
to be a joint meeting with GSA.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks swim team article, CMU swims past defending champ, results were misprinted. 
Senior Jen Skuly finished third in the 100-yard backstroke, sophomore Melissa Schmelzer finished 
fifth in the 400-yard free. Sophomores Nathan Palm and Jason Striner finished third and first, 
respectively, in the 100-yard breast. In diving, senior Sam Malloy finished third in the 3-meter event.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Becky A. Cowser at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Old Business:
The election boards result was 
approved by acclamation.
New Business from Commit
tee:
F98-011-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to make 
Fiscal Policy a separate docu
ment. The motion failed by hand 
vote (7 in favor, 8 opposed, 2 
abstain).
F98-015-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Modify 
Article I to Clarify Purpose and 
Scope and the Constitution of the 
Student Body to Reserve a Com
mon Power. The motion was ap
proved by voice vote.
F98-016-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Clarify 
Membership in Student Senate 
and Simplify Article I by Creat
ing a New Article II. The motion 
was approved by voice vote.
F98-017-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Clarify 
Them, More Accurately Reflect 
Student Senates Current Work
ings, and to Introduce Improved 
Structures for the Operation of
Student Senate. The motion was F&R. The motion was approved 
Approved by voice vote. by voice vote.
F98-018-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Sim
plify Article I via Creation of a 
New Article IV. The motion was 
approved by voice vote.
F98-019-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Clarify 
the Introduction of Legislation 
into Student Senate, Create Pro
cedures Concerning Quorums, 
and Simplify Article I by Creat
ing a New Article V. The motion 
was approved by voice vote.
F98-020-Amendment of the 
Student Senate Bylaws to Clarify 
the Submission of a Restraining 
Petition, Create a Procedure for 
Popular Reconsideration, and 
Simplify Article I by Creating a 
new Article VI. The motion was 
approved by voice vote.
F98-027-Special Allocation to 
Fiesta. Fiesta de Primaveras 
mission is to plan and execute 
Fiesta de Primavera, the last day 
of classes party at the end of each 
academic year. A special alloca
tion of $5,100 is recommended by
F98-028-Re-recognition pf 
Student Organizations. Stu
dent organizations not on this 
list have not finished the r$- 
recognition process and haye 
until December 1, 1998, 11:8,9 
pm to finish the process an;d 
present two copies of their.con
stitution to a member of. th(e 
Funding and Recognition Conjimittee. The motion was ap
proved by voice vote.
Points of Discussion:
Sarah Gross: I would really 
appreciate it if Senators could 
show some respect to guests Qr 
other people that come to. the 
meeting.
Announcement:
Charlie Anthe: Senate Web 
site has been updated.
Meeting adjourned at 12:25 am 
by voice vote.
Submitted by 
PAULA RUMLI 
Edited by 
NATHAN STEINWALD
No. f,496 
$3500.00 I I I
BySR T00D Mti-LS f4 WAUDEN ROAD
jgg I g gg
CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES.
If you're a freshman or 
sophomore with good 
grades .apply now for a 
three-year or two-year 
scholarship from Army 
ROTC. Army ROTC ^ 
scholarships pay
tuition, most books and 
fees, plus $ 150 per school 
month. They also pay off 
with leadership experi
ence and officer creden
tials impressive to 
future employers.
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE
For details, visit 409 Bellefleld Hall 
on the University of Pittsburgh 
campus, or call 624-6495.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University23 November 1998Schedule needs to be distributed earlier
While everyone has been debat
ing the new Online Registration 
(OLR) lottery system, an equally 
important element in registration 
has been overlooked: the sched
ule of classes booklet. This hard 
copy listing has been the primary 
way that students have decided 
which classes they will take dur
ing the upcoming semester. This 
year, however, the schedule of 
classes booklet was not distrib
uted until three days before se
niors first day of registration. 
While students and administra
tors will try to discern whether 
the OLR lottery system made reg
istration more efficient, it is clear 
that the late distribution and fre
quent inaccuracies of the sched
ule of classes made the registra
tion process harder for students.
This year, administrators sug
gested that students turn to the 
online version of the schedule of 
classes because of the delay in 
distributing the hard copy. How
ever, the electronic schedule was 
only available during restricted 
hours, and the database was fre
quently down. Those students who 
were able to map out their upcom
ing semester using the electronic 
catalog faced a different challenge 
when the schedule of classes book
let did show up in their mailboxes 
because there were many incon
sistencies between the electronic 
catalog and the printed version. 
Faced with making registration 
decisions over the weekend, these 
students had no administrators to
turn to until Monday, the first day 
of registration for some of them.
The errors and inconsistencies 
within the schedules varied, but 
listing incorrect class times was a 
major problem. For example, one 
H&SS course listed a section as 
meeting at 9 pm, while the correct 
class time was at 9 am. Although 
H&SS corrected this error through 
a college-wide email on Thursday, 
the notification was quite late for 
those who had already registered 
for the course assuming the listed 
time was correct. Those students 
who had already registered for the 
course had to either drop the course 
or rearrange their schedules after 
everyone else had registered to ac
commodate the classs real time slot.
While there are always errors 
in the printed version of the sched
ule of classes, the late distribu
tion made these common errors 
extremely frustrating for students 
trying to plan their next semes
ter. Combine that with more in
consistencies and the inaccessi
bility of the online version of the 
schedule, and you have many stu
dents who faced an aggravating 
registration process last week. 
The HUB must not overlook the 
importance of the traditional 
means of schedule distribution or 
updating the online version of the 
schedule in a timely manner. It 
should make more of an effort to 
publish the schedule of classes 
well in advance of registration so 
that students can make informed, 
accurate course choices.Officials must approve new service office
At last Fridays Town Meeting, 
the Academic Affairs committee 
announced that they have been 
working on a proposal to create 
an Office of Volunteer Services. 
The purpose of this office would 
be to use community service as a 
tool in education, much like the 
SURG program encourages stu
dents to broaden their education 
through individual research. Stu
dents would be able to receive 
course credit for volunteer ser
vices conducted through this of
fice. The proposal fits into the 
Universitys strategic plan to ex
pand students educational expe
riences beyond the classroom.
The creation of this new office 
will benefit the Carnegie Mellon 
community in several ways. As 
an academically focused way to 
develop and implement individual 
community service projects, it will 
give students a chance to come up 
with a creative plan to help oth
ers while receiving guidance from 
faculty. By working with the 
greater Pittsburgh area, students 
will become more open to the sur
rounding community. In addition, 
the new office will be able to pro
mote overall student involvement 
in community service. Receiving 
course credit might be an incen
tive to consider volunteer work, 
but the service functions could 
have a greater effect on students 
attitudes toward helping others.
Currently, there are several 
ways that students can get in
volved in service projects. These 
include East End Tutoring, Circle 
K, Alpha Phi Omega, and Habitat 
for Humanity, as well as fraterniJames Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Letters to the Editor
Student calls love 
article too cynical
0E3| Editor:
I felt the need to ad
dress the cold-hearted 
viewpoint put forth by 
Yishan Wong in his 
column Romantic 
Stories Bring False Hopes [11/16].
Wong claims Love does not happen 
like it does in the movies. Any regular
Letter to 
the Editor
reader of columnist Ann Landers has 
read the How We Met columns show
ing that people meet, fall in love, get 
married, and live happily ever after all 
the time, mimicking movies rather 
closely. People do not just fall in love 
with perfect supermodels and teen 
heartthrobs; a quick glance at the tux
edo or bridal dress racks in a bridal store 
show that people of all shapes and sizes 
fall in love with and marry people of all 
shapes and sizes. There are people who 
possess some objectionable personality 
trait such as racism, homophobia, or
crankiness and are happily married. I, 
and I believe Im not an exception, know 
one or two such people.
True love and romance might be rare 
and something to be treasured, and may 
not lurk behind every corner, but Id like 
to think its something everyone will 
experience at least once in their life. A 
sadder world this would be if that were 
not the case.
Jeff Harper
Senior
ECESchool officials gang up against goths
ties and sororities. The Office of 
Volunteer Services should make 
an effort to associate itself with 
these organizations in order to 
provide students with informa
tion about different campus ser
vice opportunities that fit their 
needs. The office, in its effort to 
reach out to the community, could 
also become a vital clearinghouse 
for service opportunities  affili
ated organizations would be able 
to turn to the office to build upon 
their current service programs.
An ideal structure for the Office 
of Volunteer Services would be 
one modeled after the SURG pro
gram, an organization that pro
vides an exceptional service to 
students and is well-publicized. 
A student should be able to go to 
the Office of Volunteer Services 
and express his or her desired 
level of participation in commu
nity service. The interest level 
could range from the creation of a 
new program with some fellow 
students to a desire to receive 
credit by working in an existing 
off-campus project or a way to get 
off campus a few times a month to 
perform service. With the pro
posed office, students could find a 
way to serve the community that 
will correspond with their indi
vidual schedules.
On December 18, when the Edu
cational Task Force presents its 
proposal for an Office of Volun
teer Services, the administration 
should enthusiastically approve 
the new division. This kind of 
opportunity would benefit stu
dents individual education as well 
as the community as a whole.
Robert Jefferson
In the November 9 edition 
of the online publicationSonicNet Music News of the World., Chris Nelson wrote an 
article about efforts to offer 
Marilyn Manson awareness 
training in Texas public 
schools. This is occurring in 
the wake of controversy over 
Manson, a shock-rock per
former whose songs pertain 
to subjects as diverse as 
drugs, murder, and antipa
thy towards religion.
Wrote Nelson: The group 
conducting the training ses
sions ... recommends that 
schools classify fans of 
Manson and other goth-rock 
acts as gang members. The 
director of this group be
lieves that a majority of gothrock fans engage in ritual sac
rifice. Further, it was stated 
that a significant percentage
of goths in the area engage in 
drawing graffiti.
Hanging around in groups, 
wearing similar colors, and 
drawing graffiti do not consti
tute a street gang. Sure, these 
are valid elements of any gang 
worth anything, but the main 
facet missing is engaging in 
violent criminal activities. In 
general, goths are not known 
for causingmurders, rapes, rob
beries, and other crimes asso
ciated with gangs. Rather, they 
tend to be associated with sit
ting around, smoking clove 
cigarettes, and making exis
tentialist and nihilist commen
tary. This is a far cry from the 
vision of a goth gang, which 
(at least to me) entails disaf
fected individuals in black 
clothing running around, rob
bing stores whilst wearing 
easy-to-identify makeup, and 
killingrandompeopleby stran
gling them with fishnets.
Even if we accept the 
premise that goth rock fans 
Please see GANGS, page 5
Tyrannical concerns animate Disney activities
Big Brother is watching you. Back at 
the beginning of the semester, you couldnt 
go too far on campus without running into 
that flyers dire warning, brought to you 
courtesy of our local Libertarians. What a 
fine way to advertise a lecture on the evils 
of big government, calling up images of 
prying electronic eyes and boots stamping 
on faces forever. But, around the same 
time, you only had to look up at the strik
ing banner hung at the top of the UC 
to realize that the business of bootstamping has gotten awfully com
plex these days. Workers Unite! it 
screamed, black text on a starspangled red field. Never mind that 
it was only advertising the Sunday 
movie, a stirring Reagan-era action 
classic called Red Dawn. Can you 
imagine what wouldve happened to 
the students who put that up, say, 30 
years ago? Theyd likely be expelled.
If theyd done.it 40 years ago, theyd be 
lucky to escape prison. Are we entering an 
age of unprecedented free thought, or are 
the directions that our liberated minds 
tend to take no longer considered danger
ous by the new people in charge?
Test our newfound freedom for me. Go 
look up a book called Walt Disney: Hollywoods Dark Prince, by Marc Eliot 
You wont find it on the shelf at Barnes & 
Noble or Borders, you couldnt get it 
through interlibrary loan last time I 
checked, and you cant buy it at 
amazon.com. In fact, its out of print in the 
U.S.; Bantam, the books American pub
lisher, suddenly halted publication in 1991. 
If you want it, youll have to have a book
store special-order it from the UK, or you 
can do what I did and buy a used copy.
Whats in it? Only about a full centurys 
worth of meticulously researched dirt on
Disney and his empire. The author con
firms some of the nasty rumors about 
Walt (a wealth of recorded remarks tes
tify to his exceptional bigotry, and he was 
a supporter of the American Nazi Party), 
but the main focus of the book isnt char
acter assassination. Instead, its con
cerned with the studios intimate connec
tions with McCarthys House Un-American Activities Committee. A close ac
quaintance of J. Edgar Hoover, whose 
staggeringly corrupt FBI enforced 
HUACs shadowy dictates, Disney per
sonally helped him stage the Bureaus 
investigation of Hollywood. From 1940
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art ! 
to the late 1950s, Walt used his connec
tions to terrorize his employees and at
tack his business rivals in the name of the 
fight against Communism. Its startling 
stuff, and its curious that the book faded 
so quickly into oblivion in this country.
And if the stifling of an unflattering 
biographer doesnt move your hard 
hearts, what about the plight of the poor 
Dalai Lama? The Tibetan spiritual 
leader, who came to Pittsburgh a week 
and a half ago to plea for his occupied 
homeland, is about as sympathetic a 
figure as you could care to name. Per
haps 50 years in the future well get a 
shocking biographical expos on him, 
but for now hes one of the few heads of 
organized religion without a little his
torical blood on his hands.
In December 1996, Touchstone Pic
tures, a Disney subsidiary, was ordered
to halt production on Martin Scorceses Kundun, a film about the life of the Dalai 
Lama that concentrates on the events 
following Chinas 1950 invasion of Tibet. 
Apparently, Disney was worried that the 
films release might impair its business 
relationship with China, with a proposed 
theme park and the wholesome family 
entertainment of Mulan just waiting to 
inflict themselves on a vast and tragi
cally underexploited market. Scorsese, 
uncowed, went to the press, warning 
Disney that censoring an American art
ist for the sake of profits to be won from 
Communist China wouldnt sit well with 
their apple-pie image on this side of 
the world. Disney backed down, 
while secretly releasing a memo (ob
tained by theiVeu; York TYmes) which 
forbade any of its subsidiaries from 
producing a film on the subject again. 
The movie, which was unaccount
ably limited in its U.S. release, still 
won enormous critical acclaim.
Do you want to see just how far 
Mickey Mouses three-fingered little 
ditor hands really reach? Try researching 
the story on the Internet. Dig a bit, and 
youll get plenty of articles from newspa
pers across the country, relatinghow China 
relentlessly pressured Disney to kill Kundun while, despite everything, the 
studio maintained its commitment to com
pleting the film. Account after account, 
tells the same story. Im telling you that 11 
saw my version of the sordid mess two 
years ago, in the pages of the New York Times, right under the unforgiving fluo
rescent lights of the Airport Lounge. How
ever, as those of you with siblings might 
know, when its your word against your 
big brothers, its not likely that the truth 
will ever come out.
NickFox-Gieg is a senior art major. Did you know that, according to his own big brother, Roy Disney, Walt liked to secretly dress up in his mothers clothing as a kid ?

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 19985Writers debate ethics of legal drinking age
Limit reduces risk of alcohol abuse
Open Forum
by Nathan Steinwald
When I was a senior in high school, I 
got drunk for the first time. It was the 
first time I really drank more than a sip 
of alcohol, and I really got drunk. I lost 
the exact count of how many drinks I 
had  around six or seven. I didnt have 
much more than that, though  not 
that, at 140 pounds, six or seven drinks 
isnt too much already.
Today, I am still not of legal drinking 
age, but I have stopped drinking and 
think that the legal age limit of 21 is not 
only important to maintain, but should 
be enforced more rigorously. I will not be 
drinking until I am over 21  even then, 
I will never let myself get drunk again.
I didnt come to these decisions be
cause alcohol had a severe impact on my 
life. I came to these decisions because of 
the effect I see it having on the lives of 
people around me. We hear stories of 
students who die of alcohol poisoning 
all the time. Here at CMU, there have 
been cases of alcohol poisoning. Last 
week, there was a car accident involv
ing drunken basketball players from 
Kentucky, which has one of the country s 
best college basketball programs. I cant 
speak for everyone, but those stories 
have not had a great effect on me. Its 
the parties I have attended that have 
turned me off to alcohol and made me 
believe in the legal age limit.
In my first year at Carnegie Mellon, a 
student named Dathan who had gradu
ated high school withme was in a car 
accident. He had not been driving, but 
both he and the driver were drunk that 
night. Dathan was badly hurt in the 
accident. Along with the broken bones 
and cuts that would heal, he lost an eye, 
and his brain was damaged.
That hit home pretty hard, but it 
didnt make me stop drinking.
I also have had one friend almost get 
arrested because he lost control of him
self while drunk and attacked someone 
while visiting another school. He stopped 
drinking for a while after that. But at 
parties, since everyone else drinks, he 
has begun to drink again.
The last time I got drunk was lastyear.
I have stopped since then not because a 
friend has died of drinking, or even come 
close. I have stopped because on ordinary 
nights when my friends drink, even if no 
one dies, or gets in a car accident, they 
pursue drunkenness like a pot of gold at the 
end of a rainbow. They never feel like theyve 
gotten there, and they never stop trying.
They might drink to have fun, relax, and 
forget about school. Inevitably one person 
starts drinking faster and more furiously 
than the others and a game begins. Every
one else amuses themselves by encourag
ing that one person to drink even more. 
Usually its the person who is drinking for 
the wrongreason. Depression, frustration, 
or even physical pain serve as motivation 
to drink. Never mind cirrhosis of the liver, 
ulcers, kidney damage, andbrain cell death. 
These are all afterthoughts at best.
Arguments are made for lower drinking 
limits. Maybe people 
will learn to drink more 
responsibly if they are 
allowed to start sooner.
Maybe not. Ive seen re
sponsible drinking, and 
the underage drinking 
Ive seen bears little re
semblance to it. From
Age restrictions deny right to decide
Open Forum
by Ellen Beldner
my experience, nine out 
of 10 times an under
age person drinks, it is 
to get drunk off their 
ass, blasted, wasted, 
smashed, or any other 
adjective that comes 
to mind. IVIohd
Criticisms could be leveled against me 
because I drank in the past. I cant take that 
back. Maybe it is hypocritical. But it doesnt 
make sense that society shouldnt learn from 
the mistakes of individuals. If anything, we 
should be abandoning dangerously self-de
structive rites of passage. We know drinking 
is harmful. We know young people are more 
affected by alcohol. The current age limit 
only takes advantage of that knowledge.
From ill-fated handspring attempts to 
nights spent hanging over the rim of a 
toilet, Ive seen what goes wrong almost 
every time underage people drink too much, 
and it usually is too much. I cant stop it, 
and peer pressure to not drink is almost 
nonexistent. The only thing left is the law, 
and I would rather have that than see 
more alcoholism, drunken driving, and 
trips to the hospital.
Nathan Steinwald is The Tartan News Editor. He welcomes all responsible replies to his column.
I turned 21 last week, that magical 
age of maturity for Americans. But, re
alizing that alcohol doesnt impress me 
that much, I was infinitely more excited 
about the prospect of going out to Mad 
Mex with a group of friends than I was 
about my ability to legally shoot tequila.
Like most Americans, Ive had access 
to alcohol since high school. We begin 
making the decision to drink long before 
our 21st birthdays as we start to assert 
our increasing ma
turity and separa
tion from our par
ents. By the time we 
are able to legally 
purchase and con
sume alcohol, most 
of us have taken on 
 and fulfilled  
responsibilities 
much greater than 
deciding whether to 
get a fifth of Skyy or 
a fifth of Absolut.
Not that your av
erage beer bowler is 
Zekri Ismail/Tartan Art Staff ready to become the 
next Winston Churchill, but, by the age 
of 21, she probably has had a checking 
account for a few years, pays bills, ar
ranges her own medical appointments, 
and, if shes in college, has taken the 
responsibility to think about her future.
In our country we allow people to oper
ate a car sometimes as early as the age of 
15 (the age when teenagers can get a 
driving permit in some states). Long be
fore we can pick up a bottle of wine for 
dinner, we can hold jobs, pay taxes, and 
get married. And the government has 
decided that it takes less maturity to vote 
and to die for your country  both of 
which were allowed to do at 18  than it 
does to have a beer. Eighteen-year-olds 
can purchase cigarettes, which arguably 
are worse than alcohol in that they en
danger nonsmokers via second-hand 
smoke, while alcohol consumption in and 
of itself remains a victimless crime: Your 
beer breath wont give your date cirrho
sis of the liver.
The age of alcoholic majority in our coun
try is arbitrary and nonsensical, consider
ing the other things we are allowed to do 
before were able to drink. We want people 
to drink responsibly, just as we want them 
to vote and drive responsibly, but there is 
no evidence that our current laws have 
any hand in encouraging that: Respon
sible drinkers dont try to down 24 shots of 
liquor in two hours, as Michigan State 
University student Bradley McCue did on 
November 6, dying within an hour of his 
last shot as friends cheered him on to 
celebrate his 21st birthday.
As we can see from McCues case, matu
rity is not something magically bestowed 
at the strike of midnight on a 21st birth
day. Maturity is something that is in
stilled in a person over a number of years. 
It happens at different times for different 
people, making the governments age pro
hibition even more arbitrary. European 
16-year-olds can drink responsibly, sip
ping on beers and ridiculing American 
teenagers who stagger around, drunk on 
the there-legal alcohol. And plenty of 28- 
year-olds in the United States are so child
ish that they have no qualms about spend
ing an evening drinking in a bar and then 
driving home.
To be certain, all of our age restrictions 
are at least somewhat arbitrary. Eigh
teen is the legal age of majority, yet clearly, 
some of us could be ready for adulthood at 
the age of 17, while others hang around at 
their parents home playing Nintendo well 
into their 30s. But we have decided that 
18 is a good age, developmentally speak
ing, to make people take legal responsi
bility for their actions. We might as well 
be consistent in giving people the free
dom to screw up their lives and make 
bad decisions.
Alcohol, in and of itself, is not evil. Like 
any other substance on the face of the 
earth, it can be used or abused. It is not the 
responsibility of the government  or of 
your next-door neighbor  to tell you 
whether you may or may not drink: It 
should, like virtually every other decision, 
be yours or your legal guardians. Cer
tainly we need to teach people to drink 
responsibly, but arbitrary and puritanical 
prohibitions have not, and never will, ac
complish that goal.
Ellen Beldner is a Tartan Contributing Editor and a junior professional writing major. She welcomes any responsible replies to her column, as long as they are accompanied by a bottle of pre-1975 vintage Bordeaux.
Black clothing fails to lead youth to life of debauchery
GANGS, from page 4
engage in ritual sacrifice, the 
number of such fans most likely 
would not amount to even a few 
percentage points. Otherwise, 
wed see more randomly strewn 
carcasses of small furry animals 
in our neighborhoods. That, com
bined with the lack of violent 
crime skills in general, means 
that the majority of so-called goth 
gangs would not be able to suc
ceed in the competitive environ
ment of the gang world, where 
theyd be destroyed in an instant 
by more established groups such 
as the Crips and Latin Kings.
Of course, the school system 
probably doesnt realize this prob
lem. Instead, theyve been spend
ing too much time listening to
Marilyn Manson, a guy who has 
as much to do with the goth com
munity as Bill Gates does with 
Linux. Theyre looking at lyrics 
that cant be taken with a straight 
face, with inane titles such as 
Dope Show and I Dont Like 
Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me). 
The school systems attitude is 
the attitude taken by people who 
cant or wont take a joke.
The worst part is that theyre 
taking this joke seriously, and 
using this as the basis for a preju
dicial policy. Worse, its a policy 
that turns out to target people 
primarily based upon looks; I 
mean, when was the last time a 
high school teacher took a poll to 
find out students listening hab
its? Thus, the only way the policy
can work is by using a simple 
standard: If a person looks goth, 
then he or she probably is goth 
and, therefore, is dangerous.
Looking at this for a moment, I 
realized that were I in this situa
tion, I would be a gang member in 
the eyes of the school system. My 
penchant for black clothing would 
be a definite sign that Im a cor
rupting influence upon the edu
cational system. While I dont lis
ten to Manson, I do enjoy Bahaus 
and The Machine in the Garden, 
two bands classified as goth. 
Were that not enough, I hang out 
with goths now, and did while I 
was in high school.
From this evidence alone, I 
would be classified as a gang mem
ber. This fails to take into account
that I have no positive support for 
the gang life. After all, despite the 
possibility of good times that come 
from communal bonding, there are 
too many problems that have 
swayed me from gangs: No retire
ment benefits, a significant lack 
of medical insurance, and the 
available positions may not be 
proper for putting on resumes. 
Gangs just are such an obviously 
bad long-term career choice.
This problem isnt just local to 
Texas  in a lot of areas, school 
officials will use the way someone 
looks as a means of determining 
gang affiliation. On one hand, this 
has a valid basis, since most gangs 
use certain color patterns of cloth
ing as symbols. On the other hand, 
the only way to avoid the potential
of being targeted is to look bland 
and generic. Effectively, the schools 
wirid up perpetuating the same 
prejudice that they teach against.
My advice to the students is to 
form gangs of Gap-wearing, alternative-listening teenagers, 
people who look predestined for 
MTV or bad prime-time teen dra
mas. And prove to the system 
that even as a blind follower of 
pre-packaged corporate enter
tainment, you too can incite acts 
of crime and civil unrest.
Rob Jefferson is a sophomore computer science major. His current goal is to record music with subliminal messages, making impressionable teens his slaves as Agents of Amway.
A PERSONS
The end is near  the end of 
the semester, that is. So, 
looking ahead to new semes
ters full of exciting and 
stimulating educational 
experiences, we asked: What new course would you like to create?
Compiled by 
Asia Szrek & Emily Zipfel
Kurt Berens 
Architecture 
Fourth-year
I would like to see a better 
professional network that is 
students working in the real 
world as coursework. But 
only if I didnt have to stay 
more than five years.
Zoe Woodworth
Art
Senior
Spice Girls. Definitely some
thing about the psychology of 
their effect on the world in 
sexual politics  girl power.
Probably an interdisciplinary. 
Maybe design and engineering 
 something like Web design.
Too much to do, too little time; 
no one course could be a 
synthesis of everything.
Pamela Brann
ECE
Senior
Ermily Zlpfel/Tartan Photo Staff 
Ian McCullough 
Drama 
Junior
THF, TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 3.906
Editor-in-Chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor.............Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
News Editor.........Nathan Steinwald
Forum Editor......Rebecca Fribush
Sports Editor.................Brian Smith
Features Editor........Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor............Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung 
Dossier Design Editor.............Matt :
Tragesser -
Dossier Literary Editor.....Marshall
Warfield
Art Editor............James Mojonnier
Photo Editor...........Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz
Advertising Manager.....Kevin Fine
Webmaster............Charles Ballowe
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules  
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan . 
Asst. News Editor ..Ish Harshawat
Asst. Forum Editor.........Lorelei Laird
Asst.Features Editor.....Gregory Nofi 1
Asst. Diversions Editor.........LaRita >
Hamilton
Asst. Dossier Design Editor.....LeeAnne Stossell 
Asst. Dossier Literary Editor...Jane 
Liddle
Asst. Production Manager....Derek 
Greentree
Darkroom Mgr......................Lisette .
Miller-Dixon 
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel
Contributing Editors 
Mark Adato, Ellen Beldner, Jennifer - 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Tracy Odell, Amit Sheth
Staffwriters 
Abhay Agrawal, Elaine Boland, Dash 
Boyer-Olsen, Matt Brun, Wendy ' 
Buffett, Michelle Chao, Cliff Chien, 
Justin Cina, Jimmy Clutter, Rhys 
Conlon, Dave Elman, Ben Farahpour, : 
Clinton Field, Nick Fox-Gieg, Andrew 
Francis, Sriram Gollapaili, Lisa 
Hankin, Rob Jefferson, Katie Kowall, 
Emily Landes, David Liber, Katie 
Martinez, Joshua McConnell, Mel
issa McMahon, Maureen 
McGranaghan, Bhumika Muchhala,. ' 
Susan Murray, Jonathan Pearce, 
Reena Singhal, Jennifer Terry, Rich 
Torio, Yishan Wong
Art
Neil Babra, Matthew Blum, 
Cortland Shopper, Mohd Zekri 
Ismail
Comics
Joseph Hocking, Chris Rugen
Photo
Anthony DAuria, David 
Eyvazzadeh, Lilly Rouhani, Stacey
Tetzlaff
Darkroom 
Cassandra Knight, Susan Leu, Wil
liam Long, Jeany Oh, David 
Oleszkiewicz, Diana Rutherford,Amy 
Solana, Erica Yamada
Production 
Andrea Okerholm, Jennie Keith, 
RimasSvarcas, Erica Yamada, Brian 
Yeung
Copy
Stacey Becker, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Claire 
Jauregui, Larissa Kasian, Matthew 
McHenry, Jonathon Pearce, Jenni
fer Terry
Business 
Michael Y. Kan, Toshi Takano
Junior Staff 
Sara Arnodio, Janu Bhagwati, Cynthia 
Kos, Rob Cullen, Katie Doyle, 
Stephen Gorbos, Eric Leingang, Su
san Leu, Winnie Liang, Darby Lum
ber, Aseem Maheshwan, David Mar-, 
tin, Alina Mason, Koichiro Nakatsu, 
Trishna Palodia, Lara Panis, Trishna 
Potodia, Afuma Porter, Srinivas 
Pullela, Anwesha Rakshit, Adam 
Retchiess, Lilly Rohani, Pauwla 
Rumll, Betsy Scott, Justin Suissa, 
Asia Szrek, Christina Wong, Rhys 
Wong, Guido Zarrella, Emily Zipel
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion' 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to" 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions  
of authors who are usually, but not. 
necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for verification.. 
Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longerthan 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter.. 
Copyright 1998 by The Tartan. The Tartan 
editorial board reservesthe rightto withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication. Office: University Center Room 
314 Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing 
address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon 
University/Pittsbuigh, PA15213- 
3890
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library 
of Congress ISSN#:0890-3107. The Tartan 
is a member of the Associated Press.
P

---------------------------------------------------

to buy books!
Back Forward R oad Home Search
Location://bo (smart.veb.cmu.edu/
A Six Links creation 
 1998. Al rights reserved
etscape: Welcome to BOOKSMART
Pi c rf *
Images Print Security Stop
I QW What's Related
BOOKSMART
smart way
REGISTER with BOOKSMART 
so that you can use 
our database!
SEARCH our database, to 
find the books that you need
POST your book 
for sale!
POST or RETRIEVE RATINGS 
using our on-line rating system
Welcome to BOOK SMART I 
The SMART way to buy and sell books!
Through this system, you can buy and/or sell used 
books quickly and easily. Please be sure to register 
before you can post your book for sale. You don't 
have to be registered to just do a search. If you 
have any questions or problems, please take a look 
at our Frequently Asked Questions page or contact booksmart-admin@andreiAi.cmu.edu
Enjoy!
VIEW THE STATUS of your 
bids or monitor the progress 
of your books for sale
need HELP?Check out our FAQ!
Student Senate Presents
BOOKSMART
http://booksmart.web.cmu.edu
An new online auction for buying and 
selling used textbooks.
Register
First, click here to enter your 
contact information.
Post A Book
To put a textbook up for 
auction, click here.
How does it work?
BOOKSMART is a free, easy to use Web-based service for buying and selling 
used textbooks.  Developed specifically for the Carnegie Mellon community, 
BOOKSMART allows you to post all of your used textbooks online so that others 
may place bids on them. Then, when the auction closes, the person with the 
highest bid wins! An email message is sent to both the seller and highest bidder 
informing them that the auction has ended and the price at which the book has 
sold. Then they simply meet in a public place to make the transaction.
Funded by Your Student Activities Fee.
Questions about BOOKSMART should be sent to booksmart-admin@andrew.cmu.edu
Search
To search for a book for a specific 
class, click here. All you need is the 
course number or book title.
View Bid Status or Check Books 
Youve Posted
To see the status of bids youve placed or of the 
books youve posted, click here.
Rating System
After a transaction is complete, you 
can rate the other participant.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 19987
Tn tramura is
November 23, 1998
Administration
Intramural Director:
Mike Mastroianni X8-2214 
Assistant Intramural Director:
Mike Grzywinski x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary:
Amy Kiryk X8-2053 
Intramural President:
Jeff Poore X2-3913 
Womens President:
Andrea Nellis X2-2611 
Important Dates
Tues. Dec. 1  IM Board Meeting 
11:30 am Gym Conference Room 
Thurs. Jan. 21  Basketball and 
Faculty Grad Volleyball rosters due 
to the IM Office by 4:30 pm 
Thurs. Jan. 28  Floor Hockey 
and Pinochle rosters due to the IM 
Office by 4:30 pm 
Sports Completed 
Racquetball  The playoffs were 
played this week with the finals 
held Thursday evening. The 
majors champ was Moon Patrol 
and PiKA A grabbed the minors 
title.
Chess  The finals were held this 
past week. The champions were 
the Russian House.
Sports in Season 
Water Polo  The finals are being 
held tonight. The majors game will 
take place at 9 pm and the 
minors to follow at 10 pm at the 
University Center Pool.
Bowling The finals were held 
yesterday at the PAA in Oakland. 
Foosball Playoffs are under 
way. Please play all games as 
scheduled and report the scores 
to the IM Office quickly.
Team Call Pool Playoffs are 
under way. Please report scores 
to the IM Office.
Darts, Bridge, Table Tennis, and 
Backgammon  Seasons are 
wrapping up. Please turn in all 
scores to the IM Office. Playoffs 
will be posted as soon as 
possible.
3 Person Volleyball  Games are 
being played Monday to Thursday 
evenings at the UC gym. Playoffs 
will be held the last week of 
classes.
All Sports Update (through 
Racquetball and Chess)
1. PiKA 1741
2. SAE 1133
3. DTD 1083
4. Old Timers 900
5. Real Mellon 750
Women split games 
at Kick-Off tourney
HOOPERS, from page 10
court press and began fouling to 
send the Tartans to the foul line. 
Twice in the last minute, CMU 
went to the line for a one-and-one 
opportunity and couldnt hit the 
first shot. On defense CMU began 
to foul, giving Juniata the chance 
to take away the lead.
When you are up by five and 
there is only a minute left in the 
game, you are in control of what 
happens, said junior forward 
Kristina Thomas. What we 
wanted to do was chew some time 
off the clock and make sure not to 
foul. But they threw a press at us; 
we turned the ball over and then 
committed fouls  doing exactly 
what Juniata wanted us to do.
With 26 seconds left, Juniata 
had a 45-47 point lead, but CMU 
had the ball. Carnegie Mellon 
brought the ball down the .court 
and. got a shot off, but missed. In a 
scramble under the boards, the 
ball bounced out of bounds with 
three seconds left. CMU was 
awarded the ball.
On the inbound pass, Majemik 
received the ball, dribbled away 
from her defender, and got a shot 
off before the buzzer, but the ball 
bounced off of the back of the rim 
and out.
We lost that game on the freethrow line, said coach Gerri Seidl. 
We outscored them on the floor. I 
thinkit was justone ofthose games.
Saturdays game against 
Waynesburg was not as much of a 
contest as the Juniata game. The 
Tartans were faster and more ath
letic than Waynesburg, so they 
came out running on offense and 
used their team speed for a zone 
defense that was able to clog up the 
middle, where Waynesburg was 
strong, and let them shoot from the 
outside if they could get open.
We were trying to run them, 
said Kara Coval. We knew that 
we were faster than them, so we
wanted to get them tired in the 
first half, by pushing the ball up 
the court.
We knew we could out-run 
Waynesburg and were in better 
shape, so we definitely tried to use 
that to our advantage, said sopho
more guard Lauren Petruzzi. We 
would really like to become a run
ning team this season.
In the first half, the Tartans built 
a seven-point lead with the help of 
more offensive opportunities and 
four of six shooting from the freethrow line. The second half was 
much better for CMU. Their zone 
defense stifled Waynesburgs of
fense and generated turnovers.
The offense was led by junior 
center Kara Coval, who had six 
rebounds and 12 points in the sec
ond half. The Tartans stretched 
their lead to 18 at times during the 
half. Theclosest Waynesburg came 
to coming back was with three 
minutes left when it cut CMUs 
lead to 57-48. It didnt get any 
closer than that.
The results of the games were 
disappointing to the Tartans, who 
had hoped to win their first game, 
but the games did serve as an 
example of some of the things the 
team will try to do this season. In 
both games, nine players were in 
the game for more than 10 min
utes, and the responsibilities of 
every position were shared.
The team was also able to run 
against Waynesburg, something 
that they want to try to do against 
more teams this season, according 
to Seidl.
We have a solid 10 that well 
play, said Seidl. Were definitely 
trying to run, and thats part of the 
reason we use so many players.
The teams next game is away 
against Case Western. The team 
has lost to Case Western the last 
three years in close games but is 
looking to start its UAA schedule 
with a win this year.
Runners look to track season
RUNNERS from page 10
plained that the national meet 
is never dull for the men. The 
team finished in 14th place 
overall even though they were 
expected to finish last out of 21 
teams. I think they did very 
well particularly because we 
didnt have two guys healthy, 
said Meckley. Senior Josh 
Donner ran with a knee injury 
and freshman Matt Dennerline 
ran feeling sick. The men are 
strong athletes but came in
with disappointing finishes at 
148th and 154th place.
We dont have outstanding 
talent on the team, so we had to 
run a strategic race, said 
Meckley. The men went out with 
a slow, controlled pace and 
handled the rough winds well. 
Both the men and the women had 
run the Dickinson course earlier 
in the year, giving them a slight 
advantage. Junior Kenn Oldham 
came in first for the team with 
67th place, followed by seniors
Kristo Kriechbaum in 83rd, and 
Bryan Meyer in 84th.
The teams had exceptional 
coaching to help them develop a 
winning strategy for the season. 
Both Donatelli and Meckley were 
honored with the Eastern Re
gional Coach award for being the 
best womens and mens coach.
With the close of this season. 
Donatelli encouraged the runners 
to concentrate on school work and 
finals for the next few weeks be^ 
fore the track season in the spring.
 DRILL-LESS 
Airjet Dentistry
 Private Practice 
Dentist
 Prompt Emergency 
Care
 State-of-the-Art 
Sterilization
 Low radiation XRays
1 Mercury-Free Fill
ings
> Metal-Free Crowns 
and Bridges
> Cosmetic, Bonding, 
& Veneers
 Teeth Whitening
$39
Foour 
-Doayeycs
Includes Bitewing X-rays. Exam, and Consultation with Dr. Hart. 
New Patients only. ($105 value)

UNIVERSITY
DENTAL CARE
Personalized and Comfortable 
Dr. John Hart D.D.S.
200 N Craig Street
10% Professional Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty
Call
681-8011
Take the CMU Campus bus to owfr ont door!
CLUSTERS ANNOUNCEMENT
CAMPUS PRINTER NAMES TO BE CHANGED OVERWINTER BREAK
During Winter Break, several of the printers will be upgraded and 
their names changed to reflect the printer type, as show below:
Old NameNew Name
baker-1baker-8000
baker-2baker-5si
CFA5000cfa-5000
cyh-1cyh-4si
cyh-2cyh-5si
hunt-1hunt-8000
hunt-2hunt-5 si
mmp-1mmp-4si
mmp-2mmp-5si
droopymellon-4si
hemlockno replacement
more-1more-4si
wean-1wean-8000
wean-2wean-5si
westwing-1westwing-4si

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Services
Student Dormitory Council 
Carnegie Mellon University
Working Together to Improve Your Dining Experience 
Quick Wins During the 1st Semester 
Quick Win of the Year: Where are the Belgian Waffles??? 
Available at Schatz Daily!!!
Comments: Pasta Bar was missing in Highlander.
Action: Brought back Pasta bar and is now available daily
Comments: Not enough selection in Wok Bar
Action: Permanent vegetarian section added to Wok Bar in Highlander 
Comments: Needed spices for food
Action: Spice racks available at multiple locations in Highlander
Comments: Better presentation of food at Highlander 
Action: More expansive dcorations at Highlander
Comments: Not enough variety in taste at Highlander 
Action: There is a rotation schedule for different sauces
Comments: Need more theme nights
Action: Ocktober Fest, Thanksgiving and look for more to come!
Comments: Pizza Outlet only took DineXpress
Action: Pizza Outlet trained to take both DineXpress and CampusXpress
Comments: Loved the potato pancakes during Ocktober Fest 
Action: Now a part of the menu rotation
Comments: More variety in vegetarian options needed
Action: Baked potato bar on menu as special and have increased and working
on increasing the number of recipes, including freshly made vegetarian stir fry
Comments: Pretzels at CK Pretzel are very hard, quality went down 
Action: Changed storage settings
Comments: Pizza Bagels are delicious!
Action: Now on menu cycle more regularly
Plus Many More!!!
Comments and concerns about Dining on Campus??? Fill out comment cards located throughout Dining locations on campus or post to graffiti.food. Interested in 
joining the Student Dormitory Council Food Committee??? Email Harry Tsang, Student Dormitory Council Food Chair, htsang@andrew.cmu.edu.
Harry Tsang 
Student Dormitory Council Food Chair
Neal Binstock 
Assistant Vice President Business Services
EJgON
Need a good Technician? 
We employ
ASE-CERTIFiED
TECHNICIANSThe PROVEN Pmsi*r uf nhoiM you th*lr rr*dantl/tl*
GRANDIOPENING
UNIVERSITY EXXON
4621 Forbes Avenue (Next to CMU) 
412-621-3317
Service is our Business
SAVE 15% Off Any Auto Service
Have any auto service performed NOW and save 15% of invo ces 
(maximum discount $25). Not valid with other auto service discounts or 
coupons. Not redeemable for cash. Limit one coupon per service.
Exp. 1/31/99
Is21
L,
r.Winter Service
J
in
i
FREE OIL, LUBE AND FILTER WITH 
10 FILL UPS. 8 GALLON MIN. 
FULL SERVICE OR SELF SERVICE 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
$12
Exp. 1/31/99
1. Check Charging System-Battery, Starter, Alternator'95 2- Check all Fluids3. Check Filters4. Check Belts and Hose5. Check and Inflate Tires6. Check all Lights
Forbes & Murray Gulf
Offer also available at ?740 F*e,? Avenue
7 | 8 I 9 I 10
Full-Service 
Gas Includes
 Check Oil
 Check Transm. Fluid 
Level
" Check P/S Fluid Level 
" Check Antifreeze Level
 Check Washer Fluid 
Level
0 Wash Windows and 
Highlights
0 Check Brake Fluid 
Level
 Check and Regulate 
Tire Pressure
Squirrel Hill 
521-2200
mwS?

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 19989Home team balances on the brink of playoff elimination
The Steelers Comer
by Rich Torio
Last weeks 14-23 loss to the 
Tennessee Oilers was the first 
time since 1993 that the Steelers 
have been swept by the Oilers. It 
was a different Oilers team back 
then: Hall of Fame shoe-in War
ren Moon running and shooting 
to the electric-sliding Earnest 
Givens rather than the Tennes
see toddler tandem of McNair 
and George. The Oilers (soon to 
be the Titans) seem to 
be finding their iden
tity as a team for the 
first time since 
the Houston House 
of Pain.
This is bad news for 
the Steelers, whose 
mediocre 6-4 overall 
record and sub-par 2
3 record in their divi
sion puts them in seri
ous jeopardy of miss
ing the playoffs for the 
first time in Cowhers 
career. With the resur
gence of the Oilers, the struggles 
of the Steelers, and the Jaguars 
incumbent success, is the tide 
turning in the AFC Central?
The answer should come on 
Sunday when the Steelers sea
son will be on the line with the 
Jaguars coming to town. Losing 
this week would be basically con
ceding the Central and make com
peting in the playoffs unlikely.
Im not sure if the Steelers look 
like a playoff team right now. In
last weeks loss to the Oilers, we 
played a good game, but Tennes
see was just better. We were 
outplayed ... period. You can 
blame it on the kicking game, or 
blame it on injuries, or blame it 
on the injuries to the kicking 
game, but you cannot escape the 
fact that the Steelers were stuffed 
on fourth and one not once, hot 
twice ... but three times!
The Steelers have lived and 
died with the running game since 
the 70s, and the best gauge of 
the running game is short yardtant as Jacksonvilles Stewart 
or Tennessees Thigpen. Kick
ers can help, but they dont win 
the games.
Any team can blame injuries, 
and any team can claim potential 
to win, but few teams win consis
tently. The Steelers are not one of 
those few teams right now.
I think any team has the po
tential to get [ to the Super Bowl], 
said Canton-ized running back 
Franco Harris. The different 
qualities that bring it together 
are guys playing together and
age; Tennessee stopped Stewart having certain things happening 
from splashing, Bettis from bashat certain times. I dont think 
ing, and they even dropped Slash that things have come together
before he got to the Bus. If we 
live and die by the running game, 
we are definitely dying right 
about now.
yet for them, but I do think they 
have the potential.
Im sick of talking about poten
tial. People could talk potential 
and blame 
Kordells inexpe
rience before, but 
hes putting the 
package to
gether now. I 
am familiar with 
[a quarterbacks] 
growing pains 
[as I played with 
Bradshaw].... 
Kordell has all 
the tools, said 
Harris. Stewart 
seems to be 
growing throughJames Mojonnler/Tartan Art Editor
Sure, we can blame the kicker his pains, yet the Steelers are still
all we want, or we can complain 
about injuries, but the fact is that 
great teams can overcome all that. 
If we win the game 35-6, said 
KDKAs Bob Pompeani, you dont 
even notice the kicker. Jackson
ville lost its starting running back
losing. If we lose this week, the 
season is over. Who cares about 
potential  the time is now. Post-Game Prognostications (3-3): 
Jaguars 21  Steelers 17 
The Jaguars scratch and claw 
their way to a win in a catfight
early in the season, and Tennesin Pittsburgh. The Jaguars are 
see lost its star receiver as well, just a better team. The Steelers 
but is still winning. get stopped on a critical short
Norm Johnson is important, yardage play to seal the game 
but I dont think hes as imporfor the Jags.
DENTIST ON CAMPUS
Student Discounts
OFF ALL 
FEES50%
Roberto C. Michienzi, D.M.D.
in Association with 
Alfonso A. Costa, D.M.D.1-888-562-1706
Swimmers break for winter
SWIMMERS, from page 10
third-, fourth-, and fifthplace finishes.
This strategy was designed 
to minimize the damage in the 
events that Case did win, by 
picking up all the other avail
able points. Individual swim
ming events are scored nine 
points for first, four for sec
ond, three for third, two for 
fourth, and one for fifth. Thus, 
if Case took first and fifth, but 
CMU took second through 
fourth, the score for the event 
would be 10 to nine and Case 
would only gain a one-point 
advantage. By keeping all the 
races close point-wise, we were 
able to maximize the efforts 
by everyone who competed, 
Belowich said.
To the teams credit,it went 
out and performed exactly as 
it needed to, finishing twothree-four in 10 of the 16 
events to keep the score close. 
At the mid-point of the meet
when the swimmers took a 
break for the diving events, the 
Tartans were keeping it close, 
but from then on they simply 
exploded. I told them they 
needed to keep getting seconds, 
thirds, and fourths, but we won 
all of [the events] from then 
on, Belowich said.
The Tartan women then took 
firm control of the meet, start
ing with the diving events. Se
nior Sara Wade and freshmen 
Erin Cambell and Ashley 
Cesarano took the top three 
spots in the 1-meter event, with 
Cambell, Cesarano, and fresh
man Jennifer Stuber doing the 
same in the 3-meter.
The top individuals for the 
women were sophomores Julie 
Tseng, Becky Hildebrand, and 
Melissa Schmelzer, and fresh
man Erin Andrew, who teamed 
up to win the 400-yard freestyle 
relay in 3:48.60.
Tseng also won both the 100 
and 500-yard freestyle events,
classified
J'RAVEL
Spring Break. Daytona, Orlando, 
Florida, and Bahamas Cruise.
Prices available from $129 per 
week. Sell trips, Earn cash. Local 
experienced agency. Amity Travel. 
Call for information 1-800-966- 
9464.
Book Early and receive a free 
meal plan! Cancn and Jamaica 
$399, Bahamas $ 459, Panama 
City $99. 1-800-234-7007. 
www.endlesssummertours. com
Starving students short on cash?
Earn a free trip for spring break 99' 
by selling trips to friends and other 
students. For details call Mike at 
(412) 621-3369 or email:
MABG TS @pitt. edu.
Low student and faculty fares to
international destinations. Good 
domestic fares, AYH and Eurail 
passes. 9-5 M-F. 4609 Winthrop 
Street, off South Craig. Forum 
Travel 681-4099
Spring Break 99! Cancn *
Nassau * Jamaica * Mazatlan * 
Acapulco * Bahamas Cruise * 
Florida * South Padre. Travel Free 
and make lots of Cash! Top reps 
are offered full-time staff jobs. 
Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now
while Andrew won the 50-yard 
freestyle in 25.86 seconds;; 
Hildebrand finished second in 
the 100-yard butterfly.
Schmelzer had an outstand
ing meet herself, winning the 
100-yard butterfly in 1:02.81 
and finishing second in both the 
200-yard butterfly and the 1000- 
yard freestyle. Melissa swam 
against Cases best swimmer a 
couple times and finished secj 
ond, but she did very well and 
kept it close, Belowich said. The 
final score of the meet was 169 
to 126.
The end of the meet also sig
naled the end of the teams com
petition for the semester. The 
next meet is January 16, when 
Carnegie Mellon hosts Westmin
ster. A lack of competition does 
not mean that the teams will 
really take a break until then, 
however. Coming up over win
ter break is the teams annual 
10-day training trip to Fort Lau
derdale, Florida.
for details! www.classtravel.com 800- 
838-6411
JOBS
Part-time undergraduate student 
research positions are available in 
the following areas. Biological 
Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematical 
Sciences, Physics and 
Supercomputing. In addition, a 
limited number of grading or 
recitation positions may be available 
to qualified individuals in Math
ematical Sciences. Students may 
work no more than 20 hours per 
week during the academic year and 
no more than 37.5 hours per week 
in the summer or semester breaks. 
Compensation is based on experi
ence and the availability of funding. 
Generally, compensation will range 
from minimum wage to $8 per hour. 
Interested individuals should submit 
a letter of application specifying 
research interests and applicable 
experience to: Office of the Dean. 
Mellon College of Sciences. Carnegie 
Mellon University. 4400 Fifth 
Avenue, Box B. Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Dorm-based opportunity! Work 
own hours. Easy work. Unlimited 
income. Perfect opportunity to earn 
holiday cash or spring break cash! 
Great for students making below
average pay. Call 485-7514 for 
details. Get started right away! 
Send refundable $20 to CSW, 211 
Chesterffield Rd. Pittsburgh, PA 
15213 for starter kit!
Editor 15 years' experience. ESL
specialist. Graduate degrees in 
Linguistics, Professional Writing. 
Helps faculty/researchers finalize 
documents before publication. 
412-422-4508, 
ndownes@worldnet.att.net.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.......$10.00/wk
21-50 words.......$12.00/wk
51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Scaife Hall 125
Services available: emergencies, bleaching, fillings, crowns, bridges, root canals, consults, bonding, gum treatment, cleaning, retainers and wisdom teeth extraction.Must present current student I.D. New Patients Only
All Insurances Accepted
worto1 heIati21?
Tuesday Dec 1st. 6pm.
Every December, The Tartan 
holds its annual elections for 
Editor-in-Chief, Managing 
Editor and Section Editors.
See these people on their way 
out, and cast your vote for who 
should be next to lead.
Tartan Staff members only.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 93, Issue 12
CMU places near 
top at nationals
By ENA KHANTartan Managing Editor
To the average person, run
ning just one mile can seem 
like a tremendous feat. But for 
the athletes on the womens 
and mens cross country teams, 
who raced in the NCAA Divi
sion III national meet this past 
weekend, one mile is like a walk 
in the park. After a few grueltion in the country, said Dario 
Donatelli, coach for the womens 
team.
I feel like my performance 
was very consistent. I would have 
liked to place better at nation
als, said McGranaghan.
Freshman Brooke Cutler, fin
ishing with an exceptional time, 
was less than three seconds away 
from being recognized as an AllAmerican Athlete. For a freshI think they did very well 
particularly because we didn't 
have two guys healthy.
 mens coach Gary Meckley
ing months filled with rigorous 
practices, emotional finishes, 
and a few injuries, the Tartans 
successfully closed their sea
son with the race at Dickinson 
College.
The womens team met their 
expectations to finish in the top 
five by earning fourth place 
overall. Seniors Margaret Pow
ers, who came in seventh, and 
Maureen McGranaghan, who 
came in 22nd, both earned AllAmerican status for finishing 
in the top 35 in the country. 
The women had exceptional 
performances all season, con
sistently taking either first or 
second place on the team for all 
of the meets. Margaret Pow
ers ran a tremendous race. She 
ran against the best competi
man being at the national meet, 
she was excellent, said 
Donatelli.
The women used the same 
strategy for success all season 
running together for support. 
That strategy allowed the women 
to earn 186 points coming in just 
behind Wisconsin with 179 
points. Calvin College and the 
College of New Jersey took first 
and second place at the meet 
with 124 points and 170 points, 
respectively. We got away with 
a dull meet. It was a straightfor
ward race, said Donatelli.
Nobody really faded. We were 
strong and consistent from 
begining to end, said 
McGranaghan.
Mens coach Gary Meckley exPlease see RUNNERS, page 7
The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaTartans blow by conference foes
23 November 1998
By MATT BRUNTartan Staffwriter
Heading into winter break, 
the CMU swimming teams 
continued their trends of im
pressive performances against 
UAA foe Case Western Re
serve University last Satur
day. Coming off of a strong 
meet against Johns Hopkins 
and Emory, both the mens and 
womens teams returned vic
torious from their trip to Case.
The Tartan men were abso
lutely dominant, effectively 
ending the competition at the 
mid-point of the meet. The 
men did a pretty good job on 
[Case], head coach David 
Belowich said. We went exhi
bition in the last couple events 
to keep from running up the 
score. The team was so domi
nant that, according to 
Belowichs calculations, it 
would have placed first and 
second in 10 out of the 16 
events had it not eased off at
the end of the meet.
Despite taking 
mercy, the final 
mens score was 
still a blowout at 
180 to 113.
Earning such an 
impressive win re
quires a phenom
enal performance 
from each team 
member, making it 
hard for Belowich 
to pick out many in
dividuals who re
ally stood out from 
the rest. Everyone 
raced really well, 
and the depth we 
showed was great, 
he said.
Some of the most 
impressive results 
were turned in by junior Mike 
Robinson, sophomores Jason 
Striner and George Heidinger, 
and freshman Sean Belowich.
The Tartans next meet will be January 16 when they host Westminster College.
them also placed very well in 
individual events. Robinson won 
both the 100- and 200-yard 
freestyle events with times of 
48.68 seconds and 1:47.10 sec-As well as teaming up to win the 
200-yard medley relay, each of onds, respectively.
Belowich led a CMU 
squad that took the 
first four places in the 
50-yard freestyle, but 
not by much. His time 
of 22.81 seconds just 
edged out sophomore 
Jon Alpert and 
Robinson, who finished 
second and third a mere 
six-hundredths of a sec
ond behind.
Striner also had a 
well-rounded meet, 
edging out sophomore 
Nathan Palm and 
freshman Ian Peters for 
first place in the 200-
The CMU men dominated Case Western last Saturday, winning 180-133. yard breaststroke at
2:17.27 and clocking in second 
to Peters 1:02.33 in the 100- 
yard breaststroke.
Not to be outdone, the Tartan 
divers cruised through their 
events in equally impressive fash
ion. Freshman Brandon May and 
senior Sam Malloy finished onetwo in both the 1-meter and 3- 
meter competitions with scores 
of 205.20 to 199.20 and 264.90 to 
213.75, respectively.
In the womens meet, the Tar
tans didnt have nearly as easy 
a task as the men, leading to a 
radically different strategy than 
just going out and winning ev
ery event. On the womens side, 
Case had some really good swim
mers; not a lot of them, but some 
good swimmers, a few of whom 
we recruited, Belowich said. 
The key was having depth and 
getting a lot of second-, 
Please see SWIMMERS, page 9
stacey i etzian/1 artan nnoto Starr
Construction workers haul pieces of the Gesling Stadium turf away. The field renovation is scheduled to last until February.
Women host annual Kick-Off Tournament
Men drop games at West Penn Classic
Tartan File Photo 
The Tartan mens team lost their first two 
games of the season last weekend.
By JOSHUA McCONNELLTartan Staffwriter
Every team needs a few games under its 
belt before it becomes a well-oiled ma
chine, with all the parts working together. 
Last weekend, the mens basketball team 
showed that they are still working on their 
offensive and defensive game.
The Tartans played Washington and 
Jefferson University last Friday, falling 
only a few points short of an impressive 
comeback win. Down by seven at half, the 
Tartans came out stronger in the second 
period, but it just wasnt enough.
Our plays just werent smooth like ei
ther of the other teams, said freshman 
small forward Steve Pogozelski. If we 
had played to our potential, these would 
have both been winnable games.
Saturdays game against Grove City, 
was a different story. With 15 turnovers in 
the first half, the teams offense was strug
gling. At halftime, the men were down by 
nine points but had the potential for a 
comeback in the second period. We need 
to come out stronger in the beginning, 
said sophomore shooting guard Dave 
Bums. Its hard to be down at halftime, 
knowing that you have to come back when
the other team just has to pull away.
The second half proved to be equally 
difficult for the fumbling Tartans. The 
offense was shooting poorly, hitting only 
28 percent from the field for the game. 
They were making all their shots, and 
ours just didnt fall. You cant win games 
that way, said Bums. The situation 
was aggravated when senior Bradley 
McNutt fouled out late in the game. The 
team lost the game to Grove City 7452.
Two injured players put the team at 
an even greater disadvantage for both 
games. Senior forward Chris Butsko 
hurt his knee and will be out for the next 
four to six weeks. Butsko was unable to 
participate in either game this weekend 
since he had surgery Friday. Senior 
guard Tommy Praesel hurt his ankle. 
Although Praesel played in both games, 
the added strain of an injury prevented 
him from playing his usual game.
Since two senior men are hurt, the 
pressure is on the younger team mem
bers to perform. With nine freshmen on 
this years team, the Tartan squad is full 
of raw, developing talent. By using this 
season to practice and gain experience, 
the Tartan men could come out on top in 
the future.
By NATHAN STEINWALDTartan News Editor
Losing the first game of your home 
tournament to start the season is never a 
desirable outcome, but after having done 
that last Friday against Juniata College, 
the Carnegie Mellon womens basketball 
team rebounded against its second-round 
opponent, Waynesburg.
It was a disappointing first loss, said 
junior guard Sherry 
Cribbins. Of course you 
always want to start the 
season with a victory. We 
are a good team, and we 
have to play even harder 
now.
CMUs first round 
game against Juniata 
started slowly for both 
teams. Juniata grabbed 
an early lead in the first 
few minutes of the game 
and was beating the Tar
tans 5-9 before CMU 
came back to tie the score 
at 9-9. Juniata scored 
again, but with 10 min
utes left, junior forward 
Hilary Harris hit a threepointer to give CMU a 
12-11 lead.
CMU only needed one basket and good 
defense to hold the lead for most of the rest 
of the half. Both teams were effective at 
stopping each other; however, that de
fense along with poor shot selection kept 
the scoring down.
Juniata regained the lead 1416 with 
three minutes left in the half. In the last 
three minutes the only scoring came from 
the foul line. Juniata hit two of two shots, 
while CMU hit three of five before the half 
ended with Juniata winning 17-18.
Neitherteamhadestablisheddominance 
in the first half of the game, and both 
suffered from poor shooting. Juniata hit 
only 22.2 percent of their shots from the 
floor but hit four of six from the freethrow 
line. Carnegie Mellon shot even worse, 
hitting 16.1 percent from the floor and 
going five of 17 from the charity stripe.
In the second half, the scoring pace 
picked up. In the openingminutes, Juniata 
raced ahead of the Tartans to a 21-30 
lead. Junior center Samantha Majemik
stopped the run when she drew a foul and 
hit both of her free-throw shots. On 
Juniatas inbound pass CMU used a fullcourt press, double teamed Juniatas ball 
carrier, and forced a turnover. Junior for
ward Amy Novak was then fouled when 
she got a rebound and made a shot to bring 
the score to 25-30.
However, Juniata did not roll over, and 
Carnegie Mellon was forced to whittle 
away its deficit little by little. Juniata
Dave Eyvazzadeh/Tartan Photo Staff 
Sophomore Lauren Petruzzi led the team with 10 assists.
extended its lead to seven again, but when 
the score reached 33-40, CMU started a 
run that would draw them even. Junior 
guard Sherry Cribbins hit a three-pointer 
to start the Tartan run. A defensive block 
by Majernik helped keep Juniata off the 
score board. Cribbins then beat her de
fender with the dribble and passed the 
ball off to Novak, who finished with an 
easy layup.
Junior forward Kristina Thomas blocked 
another Juniata shot and the loose ball 
bounced CMUs way. At the other end of 
the floor Majemik hit a short jump shot to 
tie the game 40-40.
Juniata finally hit another shot to 
regain the lead 40-42, but CMU kept 
scoring; and, on the strength of a threepointer and an outside jump shot, built 
a five-point lead with a little more than 
a minute left.
That lead would be fleeting, though. 
Juniata switched their defense to a fullPlease see HOOPERS, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

JaI3ii&jnU. V mvj
Volume 93, Issue 12The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania23 November 1998
Hands-on approach aids preparation for careers
Wt%ORLD ! 2Theartat CMU
Brian arrmn/ lanan sports tanor
A Dynamics student sends his vehicle down the steps of Kirr Commons.
By KEVIN BABBITTTartan Features Editor
I fell asleep in one of my lectures last 
week. Its not that I was slacking off; its 
just that I was having a hard time relat
ing what the professor was droning on 
and on about to my life. I thought to 
myself, It sure would be nice if I had 
the opportunity to apply some of the 
things I learn about in a lecture hall to 
an actual, tangible project, something I 
can point to and say, I built that. 
Fortunately, though, this is CMU. No 
matter which way you turn, someone is 
building something somewhere. Last 
Sunday, I was introduced to the Nomad 
robots that are the focus of Mobile Robot 
Programming, a new course offered this 
fall by the Robotics Institute to under
graduates as -well as graduate students.
There are no exams or traditional 
homework in this course; students 
must add a new functionality to their 
robots each week and demonstrate the 
changes to their classmates and
robotics professor Illah Nourbakhsh, the 
course instructor.
As a chemical engineering student, 
you have to wait a long time before you 
get to do labs or hands-on work, 
said Nasser Abukhdeir, a sophomore 
chemical engineering and computer sciwill culminate in a final competition, 
open to the public, to see who did the 
best job of programming their robots. 
The task before the machines, which 
act in teams of two, is to navigate 
around a cardboard maze, collecting 
gold pieces hanging on the walls and
People pay attention to what you do, as 
opposed to your just being another student in 
Physics //.
 Nasser Abukhdeir 
sophomore chemical engineering major
enee double major who is in the 
class. [Here], they care about your 
course work and not about three days 
[of exams].
Students in Mobile Robot 
Programming work in teams to develop 
the robots abilities from the ground up. 
On Tuesday, December 1, the course
returning them to the robots home 
ports. The maze is divided so that 
robots from two opposing teams cannot 
directly interact with each other, but 
many of the gold pieces are located on 
the common wall, so that either team 
could potentially grab them. This 
Please see BUILD, page L3
Demonstrationadds new dimension to classes
Courses offer chance 
for community service
By JENNIFER TERRYTartan Staffwriter
For the most part, registration for 
next semester is over and done with. 
For first-year students, that proba
bly means theyre slogging through 
five more general education classes. 
The rest of us have the chance to 
take an elective or two, and for many 
students looking for something a lit
tle different, that could mean taking 
a course that involves being active in 
the community.
According to Joe Mertz, a post-doc
toral fellow in the Center for 
Innovation in Learning and instruc
tor for two communityTservice class
es at CMU, registration for both 
Computer Science in the Community 
and Tutoring, Mentoring, and Role 
Modeling has more than doubled for 
next semester.
The purpose of these classes is to 
give students some in-class back
ground on the subject and send them 
out into the community to help out, 
according to Mertz. For the 
Community Literacy Project and 
Tutoring, Mentoring, and Role 
Modeling, the general focus of the 
classes is on a one-on-one mentoring 
relationship. For example, this 
semester, mentors from CMU were 
paired with high-school writers from 
the North Side.
The mentors then work with their 
pupils on a variety of projects, which 
are presented to the community and 
pupils families at the end of the 
semester in a program called the 
Community Conversation. When the 
tutoring is done, each student in the 
class then writes an inquiry on a 
subject of interest to them, using 
Please see SERVICE, page L3all art this page by Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff
class, than any other course 
here, said Bruce. Professor 
[John] Mather has done a stu
pendous job in creating a trueto-life atmosphere for those of 
us who are seeking a career in 
marketing.
Bruce is currently working on 
the project for Dailys and 
enjoys the competitive edge 
that the course presents to stu
dents, which mirrors a realworld marketing situation. I 
am confident that our combined 
intellect and superior strategy 
will be utterly apparent in the 
end, he said. Because of this, I 
am looking forward to the pre
sentation, and to see our team
work pay off.
At the end of the semester, 
the teams are scheduled to pre
sent their ideas and work to 
executives at the companies for 
which they developed market
ing campaigns. One winner will 
be selected for each product.
The History Department also 
offers a hands-on course enti
tled History Workshop, a 
course that develops students 
skills in writing history. In this 
Please see RESEARCH, page L3
By CYNTHIA KOSTartan Junior Staffwriter
While learning is a process 
that is often its own reward, 
ultimately most students come 
to college to prepare themselves 
for a career in their chosen field. 
Of course, after the traditional 
college education, students may 
well find themselves left out in 
the cold in their new-found 
careers. Fortunately, however, 
several courses at CMU have 
been designed with the future 
in mind: They give students a 
taste of whats to come through 
hands-on research or interac
tion with others.
The Business Administration 
Department, for example, 
offers a 400-level course in the 
fall entitled Marketing 
Communications, which incor
porates both marketing theory 
and real-world application. The 
course introduces communica
tions theory, audience target
ing, and other elements of mar
keting strategy. The teams in 
this course work with seniors 
in the School of Design to 
develop the design aspects of
the products. All of the stu
dents then apply these con
cepts by surveying the public 
and researching the market in 
order to develop a marketing 
communications campaign for 
a consumer product of a compa
ny client. Students in pursuit 
of the marketing track of the 
undergraduate business pro
gram usually take Marketing 
Communications, according to 
Daniel Bruce, a senior business 
administration major, but the 
course is not exclusive to those 
particular students.
This semester, six teams of 
five or six were given a product 
to research. Three of the teams 
are working with PPG paints to 
increase sales and awareness 
of a specific type of paint. The 
three other teams are research
ing and developing ideas for 
marketing a fruit drink made 
by Dailys in conjunction with 
the World Wrestling 
Federation. The six teams are 
competing to have their ideas 
actually used in the marketing 
of the products nationally.
Ive learned the most practi
cal knowledge, by far, from this

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 1998
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
The School of Design recently 
ihosted the Corporate Summit of 
the International Council of 
Societies of Industrial Design 
(ICSID), a non-profit organization 
that provides an international 
forum for the exchange of ideas and 
development within the field of 
industrial design. This was ICSIDs 
first-ever corporate summit held in
 North America. For information on 
the summit, visit their Web site: http://www.exatec-llc.com/icsid/.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
Omar Ghattas, associate profes
sor of civil and environmental engi
neering, and Larry Biegler, profes
sor of chemical engineering, have 
received a three-year grant from 
the National Science Foundation 
' (NSF) for their project Parallel 
Algorithms for Large-Scale 
' Simulation-Based Optimization. 
Ghattas has also received a 
three-year grant from the NASALangley Research Center on opti
mization algorithms for aerospace
- design on teraflops computers.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
University of British Columbia 
professor Burton Hollifield will pre
sent Defining Bad News: Changes 
in Return Distributions that 
Induce a Decrease in Asset 
Demand. It will take place on 
Thursday, December 3 at 3:30 pm 
in the GSIA Cooper Auditorium.
The lecture is based on his paper 
. which presents a random variable 
. characterization of the necessary 
and sufficient conditions on a shift 
of the distribution of rate of return 
on the risky asset in the two asset 
portfolio problem to reduce demand 
for all risk-averse expected utility 
maximizing investors.
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
This Tuesday at noon in Porter 
Hall Room 223D, there will be a 
seminar sponsored by the 
Department of Social and Decision 
Sciences and the Department of 
History. Benjamin Fordham, a 
political science professor from the 
State University of New York at 
Albany, will be giving a talk titled 
Timeless Principles or Todays 
Fashion? Testing the Stability of 
the Linkage between Ideology and 
Foreign Policy in the Senate.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
The next High Energy Theory 
Seminar will take place this 
Tuesday at 1:30 pm in the Physics 
lounge on the eighth floor of Wean 
Hall. Damien Pierce from the 
Brookhaven National Laboratory 
(BNL) will give a talk titled Higgs 
Mass Bounds in SUSY GUTs.
BNL is a U.S. Department of 
Energy research facility located on 
Long Island, N.Y. It specializes in 
building and operating large 
research facilities where high ener
gy theory is studied along with 
many other fields.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Hui Zhang has been appointed 
the Finmeccanica Assistant 
Professor of Computer Science. 
This chair recognizes outstanding 
teaching and research potential 
among the junior faculty members.
Other CS faculty who have held 
this professorship since its endow
ment nine years ago include 
Roberto Bisiani, Guy Blelloch, and 
Manuela Veloso.
College Briefs I Student rockets herself into NASA co-opON CAMPUS
about one-third of the co-ops at 
Johnson end up with job offers from 
there. So it is important if you can get 
two tours instead of just one.
My plans are such that going away 
for further schooling will cause me to 
lose my spot, so to speak, at Johnson. 
But Im planning on spending subse
quent tours with the flight surgeons 
there. It would be nice to eventually 
work as a flight surgeon or a principal 
investigator, those who work on design
ing research projects on space flights.
But my goal right now is to graduate 
with the best education possible. One 
thing about co-oping is that it really 
rekindled my love for learning. I had 
kind of lost it in school because you 
force yourself to get a certain grade. In 
school, you usually just study hard for 
a test, get an A, and then forget every
thing you studied. So when I come 
back, I hope to really focus on the 
material Im studying. [Co-oping] real
ly does give you an entirely different 
perspective on your studies and what 
you learned.TT: What do you like to do in your 
spare time in Houston?KW: Right now, being that Im in 
Houston with 50 other co-ops, we hang 
out a lot together. Recently, we all went 
to the space shuttle launch in Florida 
together. Since we worked on the space 
program, we got clearance to watch the 
liftoff closer than the other spectators. 
While Bill and Hillary Clinton got to 
watch it from the top of the assembly 
building, we got to watch it in the same 
building from the bottom.
An anxious crowd of students take in some trivia slides as they await the showing of the Saturday evening movie in McConomy Auditorium.
Lights, camera, action...
Art exhibit brings Pacific culture to CMU
By WENDY BUFFETTTartan Staffwriter
Gretchen Dematera, University 
Center Art Gallery manager, never 
had the chance to learn about the 
Philippines during her childhood in 
Maryland. The masters student in 
public policy and management is 
half Chinese, half Filipino in 
descent, but all she could learn 
about the lifestyle that her parents 
had growing up was hearing them 
reminisce with their countrymen. 
There were no cultural exhibitions, 
no museum displays, nor anything 
else to tell her the story of the 
Philippines. So when Dematera 
heard about the Kapatriang Filipino 
Student Organization here on cam
pus, she decided to become a mem
ber and finally learn more about the 
culture she came from.
The result of this yearning for 
knowledge is Bayan Ko (My 
Country): Filipino Arts and Crafts, 
an exhibit at the University Center Art 
Gallery which runs through November 
27. Along with a charity dance reception 
that took place on November 15 by the 
Kapatriang Filipino and the Young 
Filipinos of Pittsburgh, the gallery cele
brates the centennial of the Philippines.
Anthony DAurla/Tartan Photo Staff 
The exhibit uses various media to present 
images and stories of the Phillippines.
In the tiny gallery next to the 
Information Desk, selections from pri
vate donors around Pittsburgh attempt 
to tell a centurys worth of stories. The 
selections were based first on artistic 
merit, secondly on what they told about 
the culture, said Dematera. The collectors are all Filipinos living in the 
area who bought the works while 
visiting the Philippines. Paintings 
and sculptures show dress of various 
time periods, enactments of customs 
and rituals, and the native fruit and 
animals found on the large grouping 
of islands. Since the islands of the 
Philippines are sometimes very iso
lated from each other, it is hard to 
characterize the society as a whole. 
Each island can have a different 
culture and even a different dialect, 
said Dematera.
The prize display in the Filipino 
exhibit is a beautiful relief sculp
ture entitled Fiesta Sanayan, or 
Festivities in the Provinces, which 
shows some of the varying customs 
on the different islands. Two 
dancers performing the Tinikling, a 
native dance between two bamboo 
poles, are in full relief towards the 
front of the piece, accompanied by 
Filipinos wearing traditional barong tagalog. In one corner, two 
natives roast a pig over a spit, while a 
cockfight is being held in the other cor
ner. A local private collector donated 
the piece, which was carved from a sin
gle slab of native Nala wood. It was 
originally one of 24 room dividers at 
the 1963 Worlds Fair, and the only one
which was not purchased later by John 
D. Rockefeller.
In a nearby corner of the gallery 
stands a 2-foot tall sculpture that 
brings a smile to everyones face. A lit
tle caribou, standing on all fours, looks 
up at visitors with pleading eyes that 
make it hard to resist giving him a pat 
on the head. The gallery also includes a 
wedding portrait of a native Filipino 
woman, street scenes from the modern 
day, arid still-lives of fruit found on the 
islands, all of which give the visitor 
insight into a culture which has been 
interacting with the United States for 
100 years, according to Dematera. The 
population of Filipinos in the U.S. is 
rising, but nobody really knows much 
about the culture, she said. This 
exhibit is a way to show the campus 
and the Pittsburgh community what 
life is like in the Philippines.
Anyone who is interested in art, his
tory, foreign cultures, or just wants to 
escape into the world of an island 
paradise is encouraged to view the 
free exhibit. Dematera invites every
one, especially other Carnegie Mellon 
students of Filipino descent, to 
visit the gallery and learn about the 
culture she has finally discovered. 
Take a look, she says. This is where 
youre from.
By GREGORY NOFITartan Assistant Features Editor
John Glenn received the attention of the nation when he became the first American to orbit the Earth. Several weeks ago, the country watched Glenn again as he became the oldest human to fly in space. Now, many Americans have found their interest in America's space program rejuvenated and look forward to what NASA has to offer in the next century.The Tartan recently caught up with someone who is a part of the space program. Kate Williams, a junior electrical and computer engineering (ECE) major, is a co-op at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas where she is working this semester. On her recent visit to campus, she spoke to us about her experiences there and her interest in space exploration.
The Tartan: How did you first hear 
about this co-op?Kate Williams: Its kind of funny. I 
had a lab TA in my Introduction to 
ECE class. I had to demonstrate my 
robot to her [in her office] when I saw 
that she had a picture of Mickey 
Mouse in a space suit. So I asked her 
about it since Im really interested in 
space exploration. She said that she 
was a co-op at the Johnson Space 
Center. She was a big help to me and 
encouraged me to try for it. She 
showed me where I could apply and 
even contacted her mentor to help me.TT: Why are you so interested in
total students co-oping at the 
Johnson Space Center. Since 
there are alternating terms, 
there are about 50 students 
there each term.
Co-ops pretty much get to work 
with anything they want at 
Johnson. I have a friend who 
works with astronaut Franklin 
Chang-Diaz, whos working on a 
magnetoplasma rocket that can 
possibly go to Mars in half the 
time that it would take for a reg
ular rocket.TT: What have you been work
ing on there?KW: My major is ECE, but I am 
minoring in biomedical engi
neering, and I am kind of slant
ed toward that. So they put mecnuci laniaua/ lai ian l'oiimuuiii oiai i . .Williams has aspirations of working at the in th Blomedical hardware 
Johnson Space Center after her co-op there. group for my first tour.Im working on a couple of 
projects right now. One of them 
is a virtual environment generator. 
Its actually like a virtual reality sim
ulator. It was flown during the recent 
space research flight Neurolab. Were 
now upgrading it for use on the inter
national space station. I just figured 
out where Im going to work next 
summer. Its going to be the new neu
robiology lab, a medical sciences part 
of Johnson.TT: What are your plans for the 
future based on your experiences in 
the space program?KW: Ive been thinking a lot about 
this because choosing where you tour 
is integral to getting a job offer. Id say
space exploration? What made you 
decide to work for NASA?KW: When youre young, a lot of peo
ple say they want to be an astronaut. 
But nobody really takes that really 
seriously after time. Then I went to 
Space Academy during my freshman 
year in high school. The experience 
itself was really interesting, but it 
gave me a lot of information about the 
space program that I didnt know. I 
didnt realize all the practical applica
tions and the economic benefits the 
space program gives to the country.TT: Can you tell me a little more 
about the co-op program?KW: There are approximately 150

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 199813CMU discovers Indian culture
By LORELEI LAIRD
' Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
Imagine that you are given the 
chance to take a fantastic journey
- through the history of one of the 
planets oldest cultures. 
Musicians serenade you with 
beautiful songs such as ragas and bhajans in 200 BC; a Muslim
i princess moves you with her sad 
i tale of the unsuccessful mutiny of 
' 1857 against the British; in mod
em India, you witness a heated 
' debate between two friends over 
r the role of todays Indian woman 
 all of it narrated by revolution
ary leader and scholar 
Jahwarharlal Nehru. Now imag
ine that afterward you get a full' course Indian meal, and you have
- a pretty good idea of what hap
pened at Mayurs Bharat Ek Khoj: Discovery of India cultural 
 show last Friday.
The show, based on a book of the 
1 same name authored by Nehru, fea' tured musical and dance performances
- as well as short scenes illustrating 
some of the most interesting and piv
otal moments in Indian history.
: Linking each act were introductions 
and historical background given by 
-Nehru himself, played by Mayank 
j Patodia, a junior business administra1 tion major.
We wanted to capture the same 
" kind of flow that the book had, so we 
decided to have Nehru himself take
- the audience through the acts, said
Anthony DAuria/Tartan Photo Staff
Mayur members sing during Bharat Ek Khoj.
Siddharth Gejji, a junior majoring in 
business administration and Mayurs 
officer in charge of publicity.
The journey began with an introduc
tion from the imprisoned Nehru, who 
spoke fervently about the rich cultur
al history of his nation. The show then 
took the audience through four peri
ods of Indian history: ancient India, 
the Mughal empire, the British colo
nial period, and India today. One 
highlight was the upbeat Dandia, a 
traditional dance in which men and 
women whirl around each other and 
beat sticks together in a complicated
pattern. Loosely based on the 
Mahabarta, an epic Hindu poem, the 
dance represents the dance of Lord 
Krishna and his gopis (female com
panions). In the old days, men and 
women seldom interacted openly, so 
the dance has cultural as well as reli
gious significance, said Gejji.
In addition to traditional pieces, 
Discovery of India also featured origi
nal choreography and compositions by 
Mayur members, including a live per
formance by an east-west fusion band. 
It really showed the time and effort 
they put into it, said Frances Ning, a 
first-year undeclared student in CIT.
The show attracted students from 
across the ethnic spectrum and all 
walks of life. It really taught me a lot 
about the similarities between Eastern 
and Western music, said Roland 
Reagan, a senior logic and computation 
major. In both saris and blue jeans 
(and sometimes both), Pittsburghs 
Indian population was also well-repre
sented. The attendance exceeded my 
expectations, said Gejji.
Discovery of India was one of two 
shows that Mayur puts on annually to 
teach the community about Indian 
culture. Theres a big Indian popula
tion at CMU, but the Indian popula
tion doesnt come out, said Gejji. 
Mayur is working on that. He urges 
anyone who wishes to know more 
about Indian culture to join Mayur 
and other Pittsburgh Indian organiza
tions, look for books about India, and 
take advantage of classes about 
Indian history.
Real-life scenarios enhance classwork
RESEARCH, from page LI
course, students have the opportunity 
to draw information directly from pri
mary sources, and they learn how to 
pose researchable questions, develop 
actual research strategies, and effec
tively present their findings. They also 
learn interpretation, argument, and 
other skills utilized by a historian. The 
assignments present the opportunity 
for students to use many different 
search tools besides those available on 
campus, including the University of 
Pittsburgh and The Carnegie Museum 
Public Libraries.
The research methods were proba
bly the best things that I took away 
from the course, said Scott Crowder, a 
junior history major. The best way to 
use this course is to immerse yourself 
in the research ... [to] find a topic that 
interests you and go with it because if 
you work hard with your subject, you 
can create a truly original piece of 
research that will completely broaden 
your knowledge.
Crowders project, Smoky City: 
Pittsburgh, looked at the potential for 
cleaning up the city. It involved build
ing knowledge of the history of 
Pittsburgh as well as many institu
tions, including city and county govern
ment and universities of the area.
Other students worked to create 
portfolios on a vast array of topics, 
which included womens issues and
histories, the history of warfare, and 
historical governmental issues, to 
name a few.
The fact that all your work in the 
semester was designed to culminate in 
an original piece of scholarship was 
what motivated me to spend the time 
in the archives that was required, 
said Crowder.
History Workshop is currently 
required of all history majors and is 
open to all other majors upon permis
sion. For students seeking a course 
that will teach how to perform original 
research, Crowder suggests this 
course. If someone from another major 
wanted to take this class, I think it 
might provide a good experience if that 
person were prepared for the work and 
had a general knowledge of history, 
and I dont think it should be restricted 
to history majors.
Marketing Communications and 
History Workshop are among the 
growing number of courses offered by 
several departments that focus on 
integrating real world applications of 
discussed theories and concepts. 
Overall, students seemed to. be 
pleased with real-world simulation as 
a means of learning.
I thought this was a good way to 
learn, as it allowed me to proceedwith 
my research, said Crowder. It allowed 
me a more complete freedom [to learn] 
the subject matter.
Competitive environments promote students creativity
BUILD, from page LI
results in the need for an effi
cient collection design, accord
ing to Tom McElroy, a junior 
electrical and computer engi
neering (ECE) major.
In some classes, you have to 
be just taught theory, but its 
nice to have real-world applica
tions, said Peter Kioko, a senior 
ECE major. The stuff were 
doing now is almost cutting edge
 its really nice to apply it 
because hardly anyone else has. 
Many of the students who 
signed up did so because it 
seemed like a fun concept, and 
while its been a long road getUsette Mlller-DIxon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
A Mobile Robot Programming student assists his robot in a practice session.
ting their robots to work, they 
feel it has been worth it. Its 
been a heck of a lot of work  
about 10 hours a week, said 
Kioko. [But] theres a lot of free
dom in how you can program the 
robot. I like that feeling of free
dom. The teacher encourages 
initiative, which is completely 
different from any other 
course Ive taken. 
Another course in 
which students are 
stretching forth their 
creativity is mechanical 
engineering professor 
Tom Stahovichs
Dynamics class. This 
semester, the class pro
ject is to design, build, 
and test a device capa
ble of traveling all the 
way down the banister 
of the stairway in Kirr 
Commons and stopping 
before it falls off at the 
bottom. The only 
restrictions are that the 
vehicle must be com
pletely powered by 
gravity, cannot use tape 
as a fastener, can only
touch the cap portion of the ban
ister, and cant damage the sur
face on which it runs.
Its cool because it lets peo
ple see the work youre doing 
and lets them know what a 
pain in the neck it is, said Todd 
Master, a junior mechanical 
engineering major.
As with Mobile Robot 
Programming, students in 
Dynamics will be demonstrating 
their work at the end of the 
semester. The publicity for the 
work theyre doing adds to the 
fun for many students. I like 
[working on the project] where 
people can see because I think 
theyre just as interested as we 
are, said Lisa Glass, a junior 
mechanical engineering major. 
It lets people see a little better 
what mechanical engineers do  
its not all problem sets.
The students in Mobile Robot 
Programming also enjoyed this 
aspect of their course. Its frus
trating; sometimes you just cant 
get the robot to work, but its 
really cool how the whole semes
ter is aimed at the final competi
tion, said Kioko. Its nice hav
Brian Smlth/Tartan Sports Editor 
Dynamics students employed a variety of designs and materials in 
the construction of their banister-sliding contraptions.
ing the element of competition.
Its fun because people pay 
attention to what you do, as 
opposed to your just being 
another student in Physics II, 
said Abukhdeir.
While the traditional lecturerecitation-homework format is 
still valuable as a teaching tool,
having the chance to take what 
is learned out of the classroom 
and build it into something is 
just as valuable, if not more so. 
I like [the Dynamics project] 
because its different from any
thing else we do in class, said 
Master. And anything is better 
than problem sets.
Community service courses 
benefit area while teaching
SERVICE, from page LI
what they learned over the 
. course of the semester.
Its been a really good experi
ence for me, said Naomi 
j Shabot, a masters student in 
. English. Ive learned a lot of 
r research methods, a lot of 
( hands-on learning, and tools for 
i intercultural inquiry.
, For Tutoring, Mentoring, and 
f Role Modeling, a lot of students 
f come from East End Tutoring, a
kids perspectives. I didnt really 
think about that before. 
Another service-oriented 
course, Computer Science in the 
Community has a different 
focus. Basically, CMU students 
work as technical consultants 
for community organizations, 
said Mertz, one of the instruc
tors for the course. They help 
with networking and planning 
to keep the organization run
ning well into the future.... The
With all the stress of classes at 
CMU, it's good for [students] to be 
able to think about a different type 
of problem.
 Joe Mertz, postdoctoral fellow
. campus student organization, or 
r they join it after taking the 
? class. I did East End both 
c semesters last year and really 
liked it, said Julie Bogart, a 
: sophomore English major. I like 
: working with kids ... but last 
year, Id just go and do my thing. 
. This year, [the class has] made 
t me think about things: the dif
ferent learning techniques, the
primary mission is to help [the 
organization] learn how to solve 
its own problems. We want the 
organization to be functioning 
better, at a higher capacity. In 
the past, students have worked 
with organizations like a local 
senior center and an afterschool. tutoring program.
Students who have taken the 
classes said that they were not
very stressful in terms of work
load as well. Kelly McPhee, a 
senior psychology major, 
enjoyed her Community 
Literacy Project class so much 
last spring that she took it 
again as an independent study 
this semester.
What originally drew me to 
the class is that [class mem
bers] are actually out there 
working with teenagers, said 
McPhee, who hopes to go to 
graduate school to become a 
counselor. You get to go off into 
this completely different envi
ronment, a different culture  
its not a college culture at all  
and youre kind of let into [the 
teenagers] world.
All these teens have their own 
ideas, said Shabot. Youre going 
in to support them, but you also 
learn from them. It makes for a 
really neat environment.
One thing in common 
among the students is that they 
often tell me the biggest benefit 
they get is the chance to con
centrate on someone elses 
problems for a while, said 
Mertz. With all the stress of 
classes at CMU, its good for 
them to be able to think about a 
different type of problem.
NOVEMBER 19 - DECEMBER 20
MUS I C AL
(abridged to the 21st century)
BOOK AND LYRICS BY REED MARTIN AND AUSTIN TICHEHOR MUSIC BT NICK GRAHAM
1000 Years 
of History in 
100 Hilarious 
Minutest
PITTSBURGH
UNDER 25 I FULL TIME
STUDENTS-$10
Allegheny Square - Northside
(412)321-9800
THEATER
Call for details. Visa  MasterCard * Amex
jSirr&vn jfPillatisi, iosHSaicHf WJJWoilO

---------------------------------------------------

For All Students, Faculty, & Staff 20% Discount
Teach SAT Classes
Have Fun
Earn $10*$12/hour
Part Time
Sound Cool? His.
No teaching experience necessary. 
For more details call
800-2-RIVIEW
The Princeton Review is now hiring people to teach 
Spring 1999 SAT-I courses. Please call.
SMALL 2-TOPPING: 
PIZZA AND TWO : 
HI CANS OF SODA:add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99! '
Not valid with any other ByySRI One coupon NSR BRVSRI 
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99 
SUB FOR ONE
SI ANY HOT SUB, ONE ORDER OF 
BREADSTICKS AND ONE CAN OF SODA 
add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Mot valid with ony other offer. One coupon per order.
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
CHEF SALAD, ONE ORDER : OF BREADSTICKS AND: 
ONE CAN OF SODA :
add an order of 16 wings for only $4.99! 
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order. I
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99 A
FREE DELIVERY
LUNCH FOR TWOEM SMALL 1-TOPPING PIZZA, 
I ONE ORDER OF BREADSTICKS 
AND WO CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Mot valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99gaEBWaiPmaaE
"LIMITED DELIVERY AREA  MINIMUM DELIVERY $550  PRICES AND MENU MAY VARY PER LOCATION.
alainmikli
LUNETTES
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOMDALM p
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shady side. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shady sideinn. com
Optometrists:
Dr. Ronald Hirsch & Dr.
OPEN FOR LUNCH 
AT 11 A.M.
Comprehensive Examinatio 
Contact Lens Fittings 
Contact Lenses
(Bifocal, Disposable, & Daily Wear)
5824 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill 
521-2100
Call for an appointment

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adamsby Jim Meddick
S0,iJUSr,L\K&, 
STARTED fW!IN6 ON A CARCASS.-UHH.
Hpvnv, Yteiu.wu...ms BOW PTO WlSTO A FPiifcMERE Von CONS. A..UHH...1WNDA UP WITH / LIKED THE FE6L OF THIS?/ EATUMKBFDCT-. ; wA, Y'KNW. X
TS \S KATHY URLIOH WITH CHANNEL I \ 
NEWS, IN A LOCAL H6ATPKKIUG r-s 
WAREUOUSE^S-----srf
FLEEWooD, YCU \ AUU-THE SWS
STOW TAKE MICK \ A CrtWfi... -
BO Ms.m ws N--->reauy nCg 'ira r
YOU EXPECT tAE TO 
SIGN THIS? THE 
LEGALESE IS TOTALLY 
INCOMPREHENSIBLE.
DO YOU EXPECT ME TO 
GIVE UP LEGAL RIGHTS 
3*UST BECAUSE IT'S 
TOO HARO TO FIGURE 
OUT WHAT ANY OF IT 
MEANS ? f "
ANO INITIAL THE 
"INVOLUNTARY 
BIOLOGICAL TESTING'
BOX. i---------
) i (oK AY, OKAyT)
YOU
WILL
VIEW EWAMtlS A UNIQUE > TONIUS tAEMJD Fee THE TOWESMLK 12K CHALIENSE.
W PLAN HUS WRK0> J MOWAHUE IS UTTERLY l SRILLIANTLY.'... M looUvvsliy y3Nm mib ^-----198 5dnHEL lPn?ckuFhb8
STA Rm TED erneMU WKEMV Move.FLESHY, THIS isPATRICK STSU/Ar. YOVNEpWr
FgA(2 m...j==-
PIEASE. I INSIST TtWnOUQUE 
^WITH/viev
TOOAY'S TEST IS 
CALLED THE UNICORN 
ANTI DEPRESS ANT 
THERAPY, f--------- '
ACCORDING TO THE 
INSTRUCTIONS, IN 
A FEW MINUTE5, I'LL 
SEE SOMETHING THAT 
WILL MAKE ME LAUGH.
OUR NEW LINE OF 
BUSINESS IS TESTING 
EXPERIMENTAL 
MEDICAL PROCEDURES 
ON EMPLOYEESVV'
-Jmi.
<D 199Bby NEA. Inc.
WHEW! \ SAY,HAVEVDU V N0. WHftTK \SEe^ FLESHY? A TOUT W hrfm^hnri\ HEWS out/ / s/ I wntt
rii^ Wr V '(DU...
' WE'RE 
CLEARS
.L54Sp
WW A DEVlAOT 
RIHO HERE
T THE..?!\111 HAVE TAKEM FLESHY FAR 
THERE'S A AWAY. ANY EFFCRT TO RECLAIM 
NOTE ON HIS I HI WOLD PROVE FUTILE. 
SCRATCH K. SKNED, ^
AND AS AU ADDED SICK TOUCH 
THE NOTE'S MADE WITH 
LETTERS CUT OUT OF A 
JUNIBCIMEOIAJ MIX' BAGLATELY, I'VE BEEN 
GROWING A UNICORN 
HORN. r~
IT'S TIME TO ADMIT : 
THAT I DON'T KNOW 
WHAT WOMEN WANT.
IN SOME CULTURES 
THIS WOULD BE A 
SIGN OF GREAT 
VIRILITY. I
IFirmna
THEY SAY W WJUEY CANT BUY LOVE,EOT I'VE 
FOUNDTHAT m&, COMBINED WITH CELE8 (JnY, 
COMBINED WITH A PEEP TONS, WILL OFTEN 
.SECURE A CLOSE APPROXIMATION-- -
I CAN SK YOU'RE STILL X Sa)NYCU.LB 
SOMEWHAT ATTACHE?10 HIM, ATTACHE? TO WE, 
WT WEN TIME,THOSE YCWR NEW OWNER
v FEELIN6S WILL FADE...
THERE'S REALLY NO POIMT |N 
L00KIN6 BACK. THE HAN'S 
.A FCOl-HE'LL NEMEft 
Si HNJUS-. f'
NO ONE READS LEGAL 
DOCUMENTS BEFORE 
SIGNING THEM. IT 
MAKES YOU LOOK 
STUPID. (----------\|-----------
DON'T COMPLAIN TO 
ME. YOU SIGNED THE 
FORM GIVING US j 
PERMISSION r\5~~i 
TO ALTER YOUR fl
INVAPULEyt O-i
THAT 15 
SO NOT 
FUNNY.
YOU 
HAVE A 
POINT.
fWS! mw. INST EN6 NfA SE6ONC.
...tAEWO ANIMALS IN 0HLCS...IS FLESHY 
NEoW < THE ONLY ONE WHO WESWT 
-RUCH \KYL ,PKYG KrPsFo
NEONlMEWi.'1' . MEOW-'
8EHAVE YWRSELf, FLESHY. 
fA JUST STOPPIN FOR 
A CAPPUCCINO. I SHALL 
RETURN MOMENTARILV.
DON'T WORRY 
MY LOVE OF 
UNICORNS 
PRACTICALLY 
COVERS THE 
GAP. f
HOW
MUCH
LESS?
AT LEAST I CAN COUNT 
ON MY MOM TO LOVE 
ME, DESPITE MY HORN.
YES, OF COURSE, 
ALBEIT NOT AS 
MUCH AS BEFORE
M\H RoHrL oKt 
rNKUMHo Hr iUGK ^W/A
< HEL?/....TW...BEINS.
..TKEN..TO.
.MRPOT^ ...AMU."
WHAT?... 
I CAN'T. 
^HAT?..
(Tn w absence,somecne's eeeiT 
A NAUSHTf KITtY-AN extpewely 
V NAUSWY 'TTY IN5E.'...
W YO) TEEL SOME PSRIBRSEXm HOTME KR 
AILESIANCP TO THAT HANIinvt ICCNIECTVIREIA REPULSIVE SROWTH OP HA\R /l'N\ tiCBCEDTO 
JlN WS HEAP IS BEYOND ME. / REDOUBLE. WY 
-------__________ ^EFFORTS TO ESCAPE!
I'VE GOT A PRE-HORN 
SAMPLE OF YOUR DNA 
IN THE TRUCK. I 
COULD FIX YOU UP
WITH MY CELL ---------
NORMALIZER.
WHY DO 
YOU HAVE 
M.Y DNA 
IN YOUR 
TRUCK?
IT'S FOR. \ 
EXACTLY 
THIS SORT OF 
SITUATION.
LOOKS LIKE SOMEONE 
HAS A BAD CASE OF 
UNICORNITISJ
NEXrWEEK--CIClUSWOver the Hedge
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
YEAR ~ j COCOULDRS g mmQgbQo!F7V WHY WASN'TCER AT 1 F resh nom MGLITCH. HffE? g TWlhiES AS T /U/ ,ET Y2K THING?I , i HAVING i I. 6E 3\ I EXPIRED IN tj -1| V W
1 > iqOO. J , H WIDESPREAD \J ' : / SHs... X
' 5 iSn, Jjl j I A CIVILIZATION n ]eImMfr k
HES BETTER CfFNOT E KNOWING... o DON'T YOU S AGREE?
THEY DON'T BREA< INTO THE CARTOON NETWORK WITH SPECIAL BULLETINS.
Qpwg Qpw!WEREDOOMEP/POOMEP//
GEE...IT MAKES ME WONDER WHAT OTHER BIG NATIONAL STORIES I MISSED OUT ON THIS YEAR.
REAGAN'S STILL PRESIDENT, ISNT HE?
n^aaa 
ill
c is for comics, thats good enough for me
Finally, Comics gets some downtime. But have no fear  when 
we return, youll see a radically different Comics section, the 
Comics of the New Millenium. It may look slightly similar to the 
current one. Okay, very similar. Alright, fine, Im just going to 
change the fonts, okay? Get off my back, man. So thats it for this 
year in Comics. No applause, please. Autograph signings this 
weekend on the Cut, after which Ill give a short workshop on how 
you can be as funny as me, using my patented five-step program!

---------------------------------------------------

JProopnr no
Mou'py -Vhose^YiarAuiafkir#
-fb|t<s aVrf Jarp&s L-- 
MjoT?r?iev~
[(ii ft Uloui, douJ ute're all 
fere! Thanks fix' coming!
VEn2kE! ?E yP? +tE VFw2h6P79ne Vy6e -prends o&N7E2 o/id 
i< f oishfic! recouyi'frV)^ "Hie ha.freuoi^it\ +./e of fAe/r escape, ^
J JWe ma.nao^eij -fc lose He.) ^\ (t, rocbv?en, 0.nd +<ii. funnel ~
fcg-ffr"v ----K <r 1 led n& f,ere -to hih ' / vbbuVjWtS
V^e.
V\tvj Kvi # 1 was jos-h ah,
freshen iig up-___
\ I iT^HeySe^!
"UeM'Ai5 fuonfi' 
This i5 +h
:te Darkroit...
YeS, our west 
a S +o ioci 
-fV mnleuole^
p>a.<kso11-,
W I ^
^<xd fears O.Surely he hiKS 
*Ja.r/\tcI l)nrkro1f-l
Hey, uihaV "fr hell 
\iaf>peneA ? We'll 
y,ave ^ <-4"
neXt" sevwes+er/
orts10rhpL h:/oahn0 D*jwKS*(ie
GoopFORYOV? VoR&NG! IMPACT^ 
TUFV-Be NO *elT TrtWJ RC&UUAR !
eveRrowe fcuu"s, Bs Be eyaera 
lcoAnffJO IT MUST 3&OOPRjR 
1U THTV^ WHY D16T iS BAD]
OlFFftev(
hhh
DrmCgbREGULAR.
0 rLwe5bc 05p0Lw ma 5u045ddi T fLSL 
]NlmBmAMwDGT-b. THIS CHEWCAL. 
Foyis THeTRAIT FOB.Six ntSfLDpx
egBa ispowe ei Curyer pa,druDSoLDlERS" FOR TxfAv4gBCg 4B,D
7M si,8nA rEeBur.w FBof'CtnPuTais. I'TlbTMgWUKSFl-Y gNiciy WET/
1(J fACT,TheBAbTASTg\S APD&P 
-TOTH SOBA'. UNOERTHC AUSPICES
of "anew," we veRNftW wws.
TH6 GcWeRNrtEMT-rfsiXTH
TROCKnPT.jjOl
EttML
H6XT VEEIO CAFTRJP, fOOp'.MY?
r '/// v 1 \ \ \ ~N^WOW 'EM WITH YOUR KAZAAMslj 
*1>Rm idkfcS FOR THE TOTAH!
W//  h \x \\^
^ now accepting submissions for next semester ^
call 268-2111 or email derekg-h for more info
L6 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 1998

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 93, Issue 12The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania23 November 1998DIVERSIONS
New theater fulfills need for space
By ELAINE BOLANDTartan Staffwriter
W
ith every brick placed into 
the new Purnell Center 
for the Arts, Carnegie 
Mellons School of Drama 
comes a little closer to moving 
to its new home. Scheduled for 
completion by fall of 99, the 
Purnell Center will house two 
new theaters and will allow 
the School of Drama to have all 
of its classrooms, studios, and 
storage facilities centralized in 
one location.
While the Purnell Center is 
designed primarily to benefit 
the School of Drama, the ll11illBBB 
School of Music will certainly reap the 
benefits of the addition. Moving the 
School of Drama into the Purnell Cen
ter will free up a lot of space for the
School of Music, as well as the use of 
Kresge Theater.
Sophomore voice maj or Sarah Hindes 
sees the use of Kresge as a major ben
efit for the School of Music.
We are going to be able to have our 
operas (in Kresge), which is a lot better
Its a staggering concept to think 
that people ... dropped $30 million 
... so that we could play and pursue 
our childhood dreams. 
 Thom Weaver, junior drama major
because where we do them now, there 
are no auditorium seats, we have to set 
up our own seats, and theres not much 
room for big, elaborate sets, said
Hindes. Its really small, so seats get 
sold out immediately, she said.
Howie Smith, also a sophomore voice 
major, agrees that being able to use 
Kresge theater will be a vast improve
ment over the facilities they use now.
Right now, were not working with a 
theater, Smith 
said. We perform in 
the Alumni Concert 
Hall, which is not re
ally a stage, but 
more like a make
shift stage. Its a con
cert hall that really 
isnt good for op
eras.
In addition to having new a new place 
to perform, the School of Music will 
also benefit from the addition of new 
practice rooms and rehearsal spaces, 
Please see THEATER, L8
all photos this page Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
The Purnell Center, slated for completion in 1999, will house a new theater.
3r/Tartan Art Editor
Students express concern, hope over christening new space
Kresge was in commemoration 
of Shakespeares 350th birth
day, a presentation of Two Gentleman ofVerona. Although 
shows garnering praise have 
long been produced in Kresge, 
students and faculty have 
voiced complaints about the fa
cility for nearly as long.
One of the legends that sur
rounds the elliptically shaped 
stage was re
called by firstyear drama de
sign major Jason 
Bieber. Andrew 
Carnegie hated 
theater and had 
the stage de
signed to be diffi
cult for drama.
Thats why the 
proscenium is 
shaped funny, he said. Sup
posedly, Carnegie wanted to 
have art and music in his Col
lege of Fine Arts, but was only 
convinced to include a drama 
department by his philan
thropic friends.
Like the legends of Carnegies 
plan for the School of Drama, 
rumors about prior plans for a 
new theater have also circu
lated. Plans were supposedly in 
the works for many years to 
construct a new theater.
They had blueprints for dif
ferent theater complexes dat
ing back to the 40s, said Drew 
Levy, a first-year performance 
technology management major. 
Levy also explained that the 
sunken area where the tennis 
courts are now located was once
targeted for the location of the 
new theater complex.
Greg LeHane, associate head 
of the School of Drama, could 
not confirm this particular lo
cation, but said that in the past, 
a number of spots had been des
ignated for the new theater. 
One of them was the parking 
lot next to Morewood Gardens, 
another was the space between
Margaret Morrison and Donner 
Hall, said LeHane. He pointed 
out that a new theater has been 
discussed since the 1950s, and 
that many plans have been 
abandoned for monetary rea
sons.
One Kresge tradition that is 
important to many drama stu
dents is the convocation that 
takes place in the theater each 
fall. It happens 
at the beginning 
of every year, 
said first-year 
drama major 
Lauren Alvarez. 
The seniors put 
on a bunch of 
skits to introduce 
themselves and 
give words of wis
dom. Alvarez 
said that it is a good chance to 
meet new people and talk to 
students who have been through 
all of the new things before. 
Each class sits in a specific spot 
in Kresge, and in the spring, 
everyone shifts to make room 
for the next falls freshmen.
The seniors amusingly ori
ent the freshman to the school, 
Please see LEGEND, page L9
"Theres a sizable wake of excel
lence that has to carry over to 
the new building. 
 Greg LeHane 
School of Drama associate head
By KATIE KOWALLTartan Staffwriter
H
idden in the shadows 
behind the elaborate set 
of the School of Dramas 
next show, Loves Labors Lost,
he nearly 80 years of theatrical 
history in Kresge Theater. Cov
ering most of the backstage 
walls are the signatures of 
nearly a thousand graduates of 
Carnegie Mellons School of 
Drama. These signatures date
back to the 1920s. If these walls 
could talk, they would tell tales 
of decades of the most talented 
actors and designers in the 
world, performing and produc
ing shows that have lived up to 
the standard of excellence that 
the Kresge strives 
for. But the tradi
tions and history of 
Kresge Theater go 
deeper than the 
paint which graces 
those walls. As the 
School of Drama 
prepares to move 
out of the College of 
Fine Arts next fall 
and into the new 
Purnell Center, 
there is some con
cern that these tra
ditions may be lost.
Kresge has been 
an active perfor
mance space since 
1912, when the first 
show was produced 
on its stage. Accord
ing to The Story of Carnegie Tech, a 
history of the Uni
versity, the first
The orchestra pit in front of the new stage can be adjusted using hydraulics. production at

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 1998
Dancers show style despite slow moments
By ANNE RAYTartan Diversions Editor
This semesters Dancers Sym
posium, Explosion 98, had ev
erything  from hip hop and 
reggae to traditional dances from 
around the world. Dancers Sym
posium is a chance for CMUs 
talented choreographers and 
dancers to show off their skill. 
This semester, despite pockets of 
low energy, more than 70 danc
ers did just that, in a surprising 
mix of innovation and style.
Many of the more successful 
pieces of the night were hip-hop 
dances, mainly because of stylish 
choreography and high energy. 
The opening dance, performed to 
LL Cool Js Phenomenon, fea
tured some of the most talented 
men and women of the night and 
was a catchy opening to the show. 
Phenomenon was also used in 
last semesters Symposium, and 
looks as if it will become a staple 
in Symposiums repertoire.
Sophomore business adminis
tration major Maurice Parent 
choreographed an all-male piece 
entitled My Way, performed to 
a song of the same title by Usher. 
-The dance was similar to a music 
S^deo, acting out a theatrical 
sene. Parents skill, both in cho
reography and movement, was
Want to escape 
those winter blues?
Tokyo $716 
Mexico City $379
West Coast $367
Bogata $691
Fro* are BTT Do ivoc include u*ev 
Renrictioni apply. Ara wbject to change.
8BBBD7rae/___
GEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchangt18 Meyran Ave. 
Pittsburgh
[4 i 2]-683-1 88 I
one of the high
lights of the night.
Total, also a 
hip hop piece, per
formed to What 
About Us, by a 
group also called 
Total, was another 
highlight, with 
possibly the best 
execution of the 
night. Parent co
choreographed 
this piece with 
junior psychology 
major Nana 
Quaynor. Parent 
and Quaynor 
seemed to be two 
of the most tal
ented and hard
working dancers 
in the Symposium, 
together choreo
graphing five of 
the 21 dances. The 
eight men and 
women got the 
crowd cheering 
with sharp moves 
and smooth synchronized style.
But the most ground-breaking 
and entertaining moments of the 
night came with the dances done 
in a more modern style. Most 
notably, the piece called Pink, 
choreographed and led by sopho
more design major Greta Polo, 
juxtaposed the grace of the hu
man form with machine-like 
movements. The piece, performed 
to Sly by Massive Attack, began 
with Polo and six other women
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
Dancers performed 7, choreographed by junior psychology major Nana Quaynor.
(412) 687-6626
COMPACT DISCS 
CASSETTES 
VIDEOS
MEW AND USED BUY-SELL-TRADE
teetering around the stage, re
sembling wind-up toys. Then 
Massive Attacks slick, haunting 
beats began, and the group 
launched into a sequence of move
ments fluid one moment, stilted 
and jarring the next. Overall, this 
piece, with its original style and 
costuming, black-adorned leo
tards and baby-pink head pieces, 
was a striking creative endeavor.
Another dance, done to Strang
ers by Portishead, was done in a 
similar style as Pink. This piece, 
choreographed by first-year 
H&SS student Anna Wei, com
bined hip-hop movements with 
smooth movements.
Wei also performed solo to a 
classical violin piece, which dem
onstrated her far-reaching skill 
as a choreographer. Other 
women also performed solo 
pieces. Sophomore business ma
jor Deizune Mosby performed A 
Whisper in the Darkness to Un
invited by Alanis Morisette, and 
senior English major Emily 
Chiodo danced to With or With
out You by U2.
Many of the other pieces were 
danced to pop music, including
two Prince songs, 7 and Thieves 
in the Temple, both choreo
graphed by Quaynor. Other pieces 
includedWhere the Streets Have 
No Name by U2, and Are You 
That Somebody by Aaliyah. 
These pieces seemed to run to
gether, all performed in a similar 
jazz style, with at least 10 danc
ers in each pie6e.
Interspersed between these 
pieces were ethnic dances, which 
added variety to the overall pro
gram. Highlights included Col
ors of Fusion, a graceful Indian 
piece performed by three women, 
and a traditional Chinese ribbon 
dance, choreographed by firstyear MCS student Winnie Liang 
and first-year H&SS student 
Kalee Whitehouse. Latino Sen
sation, which showed the salsa 
style of dance, was a low energy 
moment for the show.
As a whole, Explosion 98 was 
an energetic set of performances, 
with only a few exceptions. With 
its group of talented dancers and 
choreographers and a ten-year 
history, Dancers Symposium is 
on its way to establishing itself as 
an anticipated campus tradition.
Hip-hop group garnersIndie rock concert throws punch
praise from reviewer
By CLIFF CHIENTartan Staffwriter
In a secluded location near the 40th 
Street Bridge, the Millvale Indus
trial Theater offers the best of indie 
rock in Pittsburgh. With dedicated 
underground music fans, this estabthe bill was Creation is Crucifixion, a 
nationally well-known local band. Their 
brand of introspective lyrics, frenzied 
guitar and drum parts, and metal song 
structures create an intense experience 
for listeners. Vocalist Nathan Martin, a 
senior art major at CMU, spoke to the 
crowd about the insignificance of being a
piece band played solidly on a hybrid 
rock/hardcore slant. A pit started to 
break out with hardcore kids doing a 
dance style known as kickboxing with 
such techniques as throwing windmills, 
floorpunching, and roundhouse kicks.
Shale displayed a five-song set with 
few vocals in their songs. Their rock/ 
hardcore instrumen
tal songs kept the 
crowd entertained 
while the band mem
bers were enjoying 
themselves on stage.
The most recogniz
able band of the 
evening, Coalesce 
from Kansas City, 
ended the day with a 
truly powerful perfor
mance. They pummeled the crowd with 
their furious personal 
lyrics, offbeat 
rhythms, crazed 
grinding guitars, and 
sheer mad energy. 
While Sean Ingram, 
the vocalist for Coa
lesce, screamed about 
disgust and disap
pointment, the bass
ist for the band, 
Nathan Ellis, churned 
his body back and 
forth and banged on 
his bass like a mad
man. Ellis made many 
emotional expressions 
while playing as if he felt all of the pain 
in the lyrics that Ingram barked. It 
was a powerful and emotional experi
ence to see them perform. The audi
ence went crazy from the start of the 
set to the end.
Everyone enjoyed the bands that per
formed and the smiles on peoples faces 
during Coalesce were an especially wor
thy indication of it. The whole night 
ended with success as the fans and bands 
all had fun either participating or play
ing at Millvale.
Cliff Chien/Tartan Staffwriter
Creation is Crucifixion, a local hardcore band, played at the Millvale Industrial Theater last week.
lishment has produced countless 
shows over the last two years and 
has been successful in being popular 
and well-known throughout the 
indie-listening community. There are 
no trendy bands who play here and 
this warehouse-based venue is keep
ing the DIY (do it yourself) ethic 
alive in this area.
On November 11, the bands Coa
lesce, Shale, Jumbo, and Creation is 
Crucifixion showed an audience the 
power of metal and hardcore. Opening
programmer at CMU and other topics 
concerning the direction in which people 
take their lives. Creation is Crucifixion 
communicates varying ideas through 
Martins vocals, which pertain to differ
ent theories and philosophies of life. 
Besides their live shows, Creation is 
Crucifixion does this through spoken 
word between songs, their Web site, the 
lyrics themselves and their literature, 
which they pass out.
Jumbo played next, and their set 
showed their precise style. This threeBy ANDY FRANCISTartan Staffivriter
Given hip-hops recent domination 
of popular music, especially from a 
commercial standpoint, a rap concert 
at CMU was long overdue. This Satur
day, a few DJs, local act Strict 
F.L.O.W., and headliner Black Star 
brought some rap flavor to campus in
T ar concert sponsored by AB and Spirit. 
Overall, despite a few slow moments, 
the show was energetic and lively. The 
concert was a nice change of pace from 
rock concerts.
i Early on in the evening, DJ Ian 
Wallace worked the turntables, ac
companied by a couple of clownish 
MCs who repeatedly asked the crowd 
if they had heard of various other rap 
. artists. Shortly after that, Pittsburghbased Strict F.L.O.W. took the stage 
to the delight of their local following. 
They put on a fairly solid show, with 
the members rhyming back and forth 
with each other over big, loud beats 
and dark bass grooves, although they
incorporated a lot of hip-hop cliches like 
Let me hear you say ho! and so on. 
FollowingStrictF.L.O.W.s performance, 
another D J hit the stage with the previ
ously mentioned MCs, with essentially 
the same results.
Finally, it was time for Black Star, an 
up-and-coming crew from Brooklyn who 
were recently named one of Hip-hops 
Top 50 Players by Rolling Stone. Con
sisting of two rappers, 
Mos Def and Talib 
Kweli, Black Star 
played through most of 
their debut album, cre
atively titled Mos Def and Talib Kweli are Black Star. Musically, 
the band relied on lowkey beats and jazzy in
strumentation, ensur
ing that their rapping 
stayed at the forefront. 
Black Star has earned 
a reputation for intelli
gent rhyming, an as
pect that was lost since 
it was difficult to make 
out many lyrics. Nev
ertheless, Mos Def and 
Talib Kwelis intensity 
and the strong interplay between the two 
made the show enjoyable and as each 
song began and the crowd cheered, you 
could sense that something exciting was 
coming up next.
As expected, Black Star was the high
light of the evening, although Strict 
F.L.O.W. certainly held their own. Both 
bands were engaging and energetic, and 
their beats and rhymes kept the crowd 
riveted for the entire evening. It would 
have been helpful to have been more 
familiar with Black Stars music prior to 
the show, in part to help decipher the 
lyrics, but they managed to play a con
cert that was entertaining for fans and 
first-timers alike.
Anthony DAuria/Tartan Photo Staff 
A member of Black Star sang in Rangos last Saturday.
Students consider
change of location
THEATER, from page L7
which many music students 
often have difficulty getting into 
on a regular basis.
Practice room shortage is a 
major problem,
Hindes said. Rooms 
in the basement [of 
CFA] will be open for 
music majors, and 
theyre going to build 
more practice rooms 
down there.
The floor plans for 
Purnell have made room 
for not one, but two new 
theaters for the School 
of Dramas productions, 
as well as new studios 
for costume production, 
and set and design 
production.
Tom Murphy, Purnell 
project manager, high
lighted a few beneficial features of 
the new performing arts center.
There are soundproof doors 
on the first floor which lead into 
the scene shop so they can work 
on scenery while a show is in 
progress. There is a video studio, 
two voice/speech rooms, a huge 
rehearsal room at the south end, 
as well as two other rehearsal 
rooms. There are catwalks and a 
tech alley in the center above the 
theater, said Murphy.
The third floor of the center 
functions quite like the Univer
sity Center, accordingto Murphy. 
The offices on the Purnell 
Centers third floor have win
dows that face the Cut, whereas 
in the University Center, the 
hallways windows face outward.
However, moving into a brand 
new, state-of-the-art facility 
brings mixed feelings to mem
bers of the School of Drama, 
who have spent the majority of 
their time at Carnegie Mellon 
in the Kresge Theatre.
Thom Weaver, junior drama 
major, feels that while Kresge 
has served the program well, it 
is time for a change.
Kresge has a lot of ghosts 
over its 90 or so years. A lot of 
people have walked that stage.
But at the same time, its time to 
move on, Weaver said. Its time 
to make new ghosts, new tradi
tions, as long as we dont forget 
the old ones, he said.
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
CFA and Kresge Theatre have 
not only provided students with a 
strong learning environment, but 
they have also been the places of 
many fond memories.
There are a lot of memories in 
Kresge and in the classrooms that 
I will never forget, Weaver said. 
Im going to miss it.
However, despite feelings of 
loss, one cant help but look for
ward to the new possibilities pre
sented by Purnell. Weavers class 
will be the first to begin classes in 
the new building.
I look forward to creating the
ater in a new space. Its a nice 
feeling laying the groundwork for 
generations, especially in my 
class. said Weaver.
Its a staggering concept to 
think that people out of their own 
pockets dropped $30 million or 
so, so that we could play and 
pursue our childhood dreams, 
he said.
While Purnell is not due to be 
completed for a while now, it has 
created anticipation among the 
School of Drama and School of 
Music. It is a project that breaks 
away from almost century-long 
traditions at Carnegie Mellon, but 
will no doubt be the foundation 
for new ones.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  23 November 1998L9
DH 2210
1,1 * *11 1 *  '11 
movies you may have seen before....
EMILY LANDES
Thursday, December 3
Horse Feathers
In this Marx Brothers classic the subject of satire 
is, appropriately enough, college life. Groucho plays 
the new college dean at a university where the 
teachers are yes-men that couldnt care less about 
education, and the school itself is about to go under 
because the football team stinks. His son, played by 
Zeppo Marx, is a student at the school and tells him 
that all the best football players hang out at a local 
bar. So Groucho goes down there to recruit some, 
and unknowingly walks away with a dog catcher. At 
some point they all try to romance the same woman, 
who is just dating them to find out their football 
teams plays so that she can give the information to 
her real boyfriend. Its also incredibly funny and a 
must for any modem fans of slapstick.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Friday, December 4
The Avengers
Am I the only one who thinks that the increased 
number of movies based on TV shows means that 
Hollywood has run completely dry on ideas? How 
else can you explain The Avengers, yet another film 
based on the series of the same name? Like the 
show, the film features two secret agents, John 
Steed and Emma Peel, who fight crime andheres 
the gimmick  with style. In the TV show these 
agents fought crime with grace and nonchalance. 
The movie seeks to kick that up a notch by having 
them played by two wax sculptures (I refuse to 
believe that the actors themselves could be that 
lifeless) of Ralph Fiennes and Uma Thurman, who 
does look great in that cat suit. Sean Connery plays 
the inevitable evil madman named DeWynter who 
plans to take over the world by use of his weather 
changing machine. Get it, DeWynter? Many of the 
lines are cheesy puns like that, but the sad thing is 
that most of them arent even that clever.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Saturday, December 5
Rounders
What is it about Matt Damon that makes casting 
directors think that he reeks of genius? He was a 
math genius in Good Will Hunting, a law genius in 
The Rainmaker, and now a poker genius in Round
ers. However, in this film, he pledges to ignore his 
gift after he loses all his money. Instead, hes trying 
to do right, marry a nice girl, and get that law degree 
after all. That is until his best friend, Worm, gets 
out of jail. By his name alone, we pretty much know 
that Worm is going to be trouble. He ends up 
proving our predictions true by running up a huge 
debt gambling and then convincing Damon to go 
back into the poker dens he has tried to escape just 
to bail his butt out of trouble.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Sunday, December 6
Faust
Most people have heard of the Gothic story of 
Faust the anti-hero and his deep discussions about 
life, death, and damnation with the devil. But did 
you know it could be told using puppets and anima
tion? I sure didnt, but Czechoslovakian director 
Jan Svankmajer had a vision, and, damn it, he was 
going to see it through. And so this version of the 
tale is even more surreal than usual. It shows Faust 
not just talking to the Devil, but also life-sized 
wooden marionettes. He also stumbles upon balle
rinas passed out on too much soup, and a claymation 
embryo who turns into Faust himself.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy______________ __
Critical Corner'V Use as frisbee
Less than average 
Buy it used
Recommended 
Own this
George Michael
Ladies & Gentlemen: 
Michael  Epic
The Best of George
If ever there could be anyone to success
fully pull off a greatest hits comeback al
bum, it would have to be George Michael. 
The double-disc set is by far one of the best 
greatest hits collections released this year, 
from its arrangement to its variety.
LADIES & GENTLEMENTHE BEST Of GEORGI; MICIIAEI.
The set features tracks from his days as 
the big-haired ex-lead singer of the early 
80s band Wham, such as Monkey. We see 
the spectrum of his work in this collection, 
from his ensuing pop-star status, to his 
most sophisticated album, Older. He even 
pokes fun at his own reputation in a new
track, Outside.
The two discs are labeled separately, one 
being for the heart and the other being for 
the feet. This allows the listener to avoid the 
usual emotional roller coaster and pick one 
of the CDs that matches their mood. The disc 
of his dance hits shows his 80s stardom and 
disco heritage while the heart disc shows his 
spiritual and emotional side. The only glitch 
is a strange version of I Want Your Sex, 
aptly-titled I Want Your Sex (Part II). Other 
than that, I suggest any Michael fan, or any 
pop connoisseur, pick up this collection.
 LEANN STOSSELL
Various Artists
Untouchable Outcaste Beats, Vol. 1Outcaste/ 
Tommy Boy
Over the past year, the Asian Under
ground music scene has weaseled its way 
into the press spotlight. Untouchable Outcaste Beats is one of the myriad CDs that has 
appeared that combines traditional music with 
Western styles, such as acid jazz, psychedelic, 
trip-hop, and jungle.
While much of this has been done before, 
the material is of varied quality. Theme for
the Outcaste by Pressure Drop is a mix
ture of dense metallic percussion with am
bient melodies and is by far my favorite 
track. Other notable tunes are the sitardriven, Aphex Twin-like Cybersitar by 
Dance Music Federation; Shris trip-hoppy 
Meditation; Bengali Song, by Nitin 
Sawhney, drifting between new age and 
70s funk; and the upbeat jungle of Mind 
Filter by T. J. Rehmi.
The only disappointments are the first two 
tracks, with their dated, over-used psyche
delic sitar combinations. However, the other 
12 tracks more than make up for them. While 
this album slightly pales in comparision to 
Talvin Singhs OK (another artist from the 
Asian underground), this is one of the scenes 
better releases.
 ROB JEFFERSONA cappella groups showcase skills
By CLINTON FIELDTartan Staffwriter
Last Saturday, three a cappella 
groups went up against William 
Shakespeare, the CMU Philhar
monic, and a killer asteroid. De
spite the heavy com
petition, the 
Alumni Concert 
Hall in CFA saw a 
sizable number of 
people as the sec
ond incarnation of __________
November Noise 
took the stage.
Arranged by the Soundbytes, 
Carnegie Mellons coed a cappella 
group, November Noise also 
showcased the CMU Originals 
and Pandemonium, hailing from 
the University of Maryland. Both 
CMU groups have performed at 
other events around campus, but 
the gathering on Saturday offered 
a sampling of several talented 
acts in one show.
Pandemonium started theevening with an incredibly wellblended tone and excellent vocal 
percussion. They fired off song 
after song with ease and energy, 
classics such as Constantinople 
by They Might Be Giants and 
Karma Chameleon by Culture 
Club. The lead vocal percussionSauntering on stage dressed in 
tuxedos and t-shirts, the Origi
nals oozed style and relaxation
ist embodied the power of the 
group, giving a foot-stomping, 
chest-beating, drum-soloing per
formance, as well as lip-synching 
to another singer during his own 
solo in Constantinople.
The CMU Originals, the selfproclaimed sexiest men on cam
pus, followed Pandemoniums 
tough act. Sauntering on stage 
dressed in tuxedos and t-shirts, 
the Originals oozed style and re
laxation. They casually pushed
aside the microphones left from 
Pandemoniums performance, 
which left them appearing ini
tially to have less vocal firepower 
than the larger group from Mary
land. As their performance pro
gressed, however, their powerful 
bass base and 
skilled upper 
range became ap
parent. Equipped 
with a selection of 
relatively obscure 
songs coming from 
composers ranging 
from Glen Miller 
to Billy Joel, the Originals gave a 
solid musical performance.
The Originals performance 
didnt consist solely of music, 
though. Antics such as a mid
song beer break and mass hugs 
during particularly emotional 
songs added to their presenta
tion, while hasty discussions be
fore each number gave the per
formance an impromptu feel. The 
group even handled unscripted 
events, like unexpected voice failure, literally without missing 
a beat.
Finally, the Soundbytes took 
the stage as the last group of the 
evening. Clad in Hawaiian shirts 
and smiles, they sung a cappella 
versions of popular songs such as 
The Way by Fastball, 
Madonnas Material Girl, and 
Faith by George Michael. While 
they didnt possess the rock-solid 
harmony of Pandemonium, the 
Soundbytes gave energetic ren
ditions of each selection. Featur
ing talented first-year student 
soloists Nic Sedlock and Maria 
Suarez, the group has no lack of 
potential for the coming years.
The encore given by the 
Soundbytes was an appropriate 
finale for the evening. The theme 
to The Gummi Bears, soulfully 
sung by Sripal Mahta, mixed nos
talgia with a large dose of silli
ness, served up with sublime har
mony. November Noise as a whole 
did no less, with its own mix of 
tunes from the 80s, on-stage an
tics, and skilled vocalists.
Theatrical myths surround new theater
LEGEND, from page L7 everyone except Holly Hunter got
said LeHane. Although convocacut, said Alvarez, 
tion will most definitely continue Signatures of 80 years of crews
at Kresge, there is some debate and actors that have worked in 
as to the seating arrangement of that space, said LeHand. All of 
the classes in the new Purnell those memories. Whether or not
theater.
By far the most famous tradi
tion of Kresge, and the most con
troversial in moving to Purnell, 
is the signatures of the drama 
graduates that grace the walls 
backstage. Such alumni as Ted 
Danson, Holly Hunter, Jack 
Klugman,
Judith Light, Michael Tucker and 
Blair Underwood have signed 
their names on the walls. The 
walls can only be signed follow
ing the final production of each 
graduating classs senior year. 
The superstition is that anyone 
who signs the wall before this 
time will be cut from the pro
gram. If you look at the wall, one 
sophomore class painted it, and
that tradition will carry on in 
the new building is yet to be 
seen. Students seem concerned 
about the fate of Kresge walls, as 
the music department will be 
moving into Kresge and may 
need to adapt the stage to their 
needs. Alvarez pointed out that 
portals were made for the 
past production of Our Town that were 
exact copies of the 
signatures on the 
walls.
LeHane explained 
their purpose in the 
show. They recre
ated the walls, and 
then moved them out 
so that you were look
ing at replications. 
There were rumors 
that these copies 
might be taken over 
to Purnell and dis
played in remem
brance of the 
Kresge walls.
Peter Frisch, dean of the School 
of Drama, set the story straight. 
We intend to take full-size pho
tographs of these names and place 
them around the Purnell Center 
to maintain the tradition, said 
Frisch. The new mainstage in 
the Purnell Center reflects and 
pays homage to the 19th century 
layout of the Kresge by featuring
rows of boxes on the left 
and right sides of 
the house.
Although the Kresge 
Theatre will soon be just 
a storehouse for eighty 
years of Drama history, 
the vibrant past of the 
School of Drama will not 
be lost.
The fact that weve 
been doing plays there 
for eighty plus years 
seems to be some type of 
tradition in and of it
self. Theres a sizable 
wake of excellence that 
has to carry over to the 
new building, said 
LeHane.James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor,
This aint your parents" travel agency.
With our staff of experienced travelers, a global network of offices, 
great prices, ticket flexibility and a ton of travel services, we know 
firsthand what it takes to put together a mind-blowing trip...
just remember to thank mom 
for packing your suitcase.
Want Ramen? Want Korean Food?
www.KoreanGrocerv.com
First Online Korean Supermarket! Always Low Prices! 
Delivery within 4 days to anywhere in the U.S.!

---------------------------------------------------

Beyond the Valley of Death
will be playing; at 8,10 pm,"and 
midnight on SUnday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Horse Feathers
will be playing on 
Thursday. December 3 
at 8.10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium.
The Avengers
will be playing at 8,10 pm; and 
midnight on Friday..;December 4 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Roounders
will be playing on Saturday, 
December 5 at 7:15,10 pm. 
and 12:45 am in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Sunday. December 6 at
McConomy Audtonufri.
The Single Standard
will be playing at 8 pm 
on Saturday and at 7 pm 
on Sunday at the , : 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Everest
is playing in the Omniim at 
the Carnegie Science Center 
each day at 11 am. noon. 1,2. 
3.4, and 5 pm and also at 8 
and 10 pm on Friday and 
Saturday through December 10.
For up-to-date campus movie 
times, call x-FLMS.
November 23, 1998December 15, 1998[/tvmityCALENDAR
FARM-CITY WEEK
Pigs. They are the classic farm animal. Yet, Thanksgiving evokes more images of turkeys than pigs. 
The only purpose of a turkey is to get consumed once a year. Meanwhile, pigs not only come in cans, 
but they also roll around in mud and star in movies that have people voices. In fact, it turns out to 
be very rare for people to give thanks to the farmers and the barnyard animals that not only help 
contribute to the traditional Thanksgiving meal but also during the other 364 days of the 
year. That's what National Farm-City Week is for. Celebrated during the week ending on 
Thanksgiving Day, the celebration encourages an enlightened understanding between rural 
and urban residents. Thanksgiving isn't just about the pilgrims and the Indians. It isn't just about 
watching football or the Macy's Parade. Well, it is fun when something goes wrong and Underdog 
carries off 10 parade workers into the wild blue yonder. Thanksgiving is about giving thanks to 
the people who do things for you. Maybe it's the girl behind the counter at the copy center. Per
haps it's the guy who gives you one less french fry than you paid for. Or maybe even that one 
cashier who gave you a penny to contribute to your Slurpee costs is the person that you give 
thanks for. But at the very fundamental level, people need to remember who works hard 
around the year to make sure that you have that one great meal every year on the fourth Thurs
day of each November. And if you choose not to celebrate this tasty holiday, you can always 
crack open a can of Spam. The Russians did, and look how they turned out.*
Cory Shopper/Tartan Art Staff
oncampus
Nature Walk is held weekly on Sundays 
at 4 pm. Come explore Schenley Park and 
the surrounding areas. Meet on the steps 
in front of the main entrance to CFA.
Kaffeestunde. Speak German with us! 
Join students and faculty for informal 
conversation in German at the Kaf
feestunde, on Tuesdays from 3:30 to 5 pm 
in Skibo Coffeehouse. People with all lev
els of speaking ability are welcome to 
attend. For more information, email Anne 
Green at amgreen@andrew.cmu.edu.
The French Table will take place every 
Wednesday evening from 5 to 6 pm in 
Skibo Coffeehouse. Everyone is invited to 
come and speak French with other people. 
For more information, contact the Depart
ment of Modern Languages or Professor 
Rockmore at rockmore@andrew.cmu.edu.
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents 
William Shakespeares Loves Labours Lost on December 1-5 at Kresge Theatre 
in CFA. This is one of Shakespeares ear
liest comedies. Ferdinand, the king of 
Navarre, and his three lords have sworn 
for three years to keep away from the 
sight of women, but the arrival of the 
princess of France and her attendant 
ladies forces them to reconsider. Elisa
beth Orion, professor of drama, will 
direct the performance. Performances 
begin at 8 pm. A matinee is scheduled for 
December 5 at 2 pm. For ticket informa
tion, call the Drama box office at x8-2407.
Up Shepherd and Follow arranged by 
Vance George. For tickets or additional 
information, call x8-2383.
Kiltie Band will have its annual holiday 
concert at 6 pm on December 1 in Kirr 
Commons. The concert will include a 
variety of styles and traditions and will be 
just the thing to put you in the holiday 
spirit. The concert is free and refresh
ments will be available.
Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present the Ferrara Ensemble, a six-person vocal and instrumental ensemble 
based in Switzerland, in Christmas Soundscape: a Fifteenth-Century Celebration on December 11 and 12 at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall. Tickets range from $8 to $40 
and can be purchased at the door or by 
phone at 682-7262. A lecture precedes the 
concert at 6:45 pm. For more information, 
call 682-7262.
talks/lectures
James Carville, considered the master
mind behind Bill Clintons 1992 presiden
tial victory and and senior political advi
sor to the president, will be speaking on 
November 30 at 7:30 pm in Carnegie 
Music Hall. For additional information or 
to purchase tickets, call 622-8866.
Graduate Student Seminar Series
will feature a session on Overcoming the 
Dissertation Blues: Concrete Ideas on 
How to Get Through It on December 3 
from noon to 1:30 pm in the Connan 
Room. Illah Nourbakhsh, assistant pro
fessor of robotics, and a panel of recent 
PhDs will lead a discussion. To register or 
for more information, contact Kathleen
Minadeo Johnson at x8-7970 or email kmj@andrew.cmu.edu by November 30 
and remember to note the choice of a reg
ular, vegetarian, or kosher lunch.
aroundtown
Off the Walls is a disappearing exhibi
tion in which more than 250 works by 
regional artists are available for purchase 
right off of the walls of the Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts. This fundraiser runs 
from Friday through December 24. The 
work included ranges from paintings to 
jewelry, ceramics to fiber arts, and photog
raphy to sculpture, with most pieces 
priced at $300 or less. Extended holiday 
hours are 10 am to 8 pm, Monday 
through Friday, 10 am to 6 pm on Satur
day, and noon to 6 pm on Sunday. For 
more information, call 361-0873.
Polar Express Trolley will be boarding 
every Friday and Saturday evening at 7 
pm and will continue through December
5. Children are invited to wear their paja
mas and take this unique trolley trip 
through Pittsburgh and enjoy a special 
telling of C. Van Allsburgs The Polar Express. Tickets are $15 for children 
under the age of 10 and $20 for adults. 
Reservations are required. For more 
information, call 741-2720.
Sparkle Season continues this weekend 
with The Sparkle Stroll, a lighted holiday 
walk through downtown that starts at 
6:15 pm on Friday at PPG Place.
Copyright for Musicians and Composers is a free workshop conducted by 
ProArts Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts 
that will take place on December 6 from
10 am to noon at the Carnegie Library in 
Oakland. To register or for additional 
information, call the library at 622-3105.
Artists & Taxes: A Seminar for Individual Artists is a ProArts workshop 
presented by Schneider Downs & Co., 
Inc., CPAs on December 8 from 6 to 9 pm 
at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. 
Registration is $10. To register or for 
information, call ProArts at 391-2060.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place bn 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Graduate Bible Study will be dis
cussing the Common Lectionary Advent 
readings Isaiah 11:1-10 on December 2 
and Isaiah 35:1-10 on December 9. The 
study meets in the Pake Room in the UC 
and starts at 4:30 pm. For more informa
tion, contact David Laughlin at x8-2706.
Choral Compline will be performed in 
the Heinz Chapel on the University of 
Pittsburgh campus every Sunday evening 
at 8:30 pm. Charles W. Thompson of 
Baden United Methodist Church will join 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir this Sun
day as guest organist in music for Prayer 
at the Close of the Day. Gerald F. McGee 
of St. Paul Cathedral will be there on 
December 6 and John W. Becker of Pitts
burgh Compline Choir will be performing 
on December 13. For more information, 
call 682-6882 or visit their Web page at http:llwww.pitt.edul~psalmlcompline.html.
River City Brass Band will perform 
their Family Holidays Concert on Decem
ber 5 at 8 pm in Carnegie Music Hall. 
Ring in the holiday season with the glori
ous, golden sounds of brass and song. The 
concert will be filled with seasonal 
favorites and audience sing-alongs. For 
more information, call 322-7222.
La Luna lights the way to 17th-century 
Italian fantasia, sonatas, and variations 
in Sprezzatura on Saturday at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall. The show will feature music 
by Frescobaldo, Castello, Rossi, and 
Merula on strings and harpsichord. For 
tickets, call 682-7262..
Contemporary Ensemble Concert will 
take place in Alumni Concert Hall on 
December 3 at 8 pm.
CFA Holiday Concert will take place on 
December 4 at noon in Rangos Hall. The 
show will feature selections from 
Tschaikovskys The Nutcracker, A Carol for All Children by Aolphus Hailstork, Psalm 150 by Alberto Ginastera, and Rise
voxpopuli
the bitch slaper
ass-out
Feature kids -
thanks for a great year.
 Kevin
Ivan, Cant wait to be roommates?
You are lucky son of a RussBoard
an toaster. I have been ,,.,,1,, , . ... Thanks for a great year!recalled to the motherland
Into farm service. Next time proud of you.
I see you, I will beat you,  Love, Dad
-Igor (Anne Heche)
danielletonykevincraigmarlan Babbitt, go home!
taminalauramikekatejames Potty mouthl 
Thanks for the best birthday ever.
p e o p I
Who wants food?" (Sports) gfltS
I do! Just wait five minutes!" (Features, Diversions, News) 
One hour later...
"Can we go eat now? <FROTH> bO I n kJust wait five minutes!" <FROTH>
<froth> bo inkDiversions staff 
Thanks for all the wonderful 
times, youre all the bestest.
What is this crap they send me 
in the mail?
-Anne the freak-ass editor 
I can play that game.
Thanks Matt, Rich, Josh, Nate, Ena 
Y'all kick ass!
Yahoo! Tartan 1958 
Board
The last 24 have been
Mom & Dad  
We love you! 
The kids
Erica,
Youll be great!
go Kevin-dog! 
Yahoo Nov. 21st!
Sunday diet: 
coffee, salads from 
the O, white 
pizza!, Skibo, choc 
choc chip muff
Roomers:
You have learned so 
much! Im so proud. 
Thanks so much for 
everything.
Lisette
great.
Thanks.Is it okay if everything is in mainO?
-Mom (Ellen) Schnakenpain
Schnakenangst 
giant buttered toast-cat array Schnakentorture
To all the Forumlicious writers, 
Thanks for your hard work this 
semester!
Becca and Lorelei
Vox Populi is a forum open to.the 
campus community! What Is there to 
say? Mr. Vox is done with this. Maytoe Mr. 
is a little sad because this didn't turn out to 
be some beautiful piece of work like he vrtxi'd 
tiff/e liked, but that's okay. There are beautiM 
pieces to be made elsevs-hexe, and majte 
someday, Mr. Vox mil get it right Well, that is 
assuming that Mr. Vox will ever get another jrt 
again in this town. Those are a lot of ifs. B/. 
Mr. Vox has a future somewhere. Maybe in 
crosscountry trucking.
 facts courtesy Tartan Comics

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Volume 19Nov/23/1998
Issue 4: Air

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
November 23,1998 
volume 19, issue 4 
Air
literary editor:
Marshall Warfield
design editor:
Matthew Tragesser
assistant design editor:
Lee-Anne Stossell
assistant literary editor:
Jane Liddle
Junior literary staff:
Alfonso Cardenas 
Alejandro Soini 
Laura Wetzel
Design stuff:
James Kuo 
Jody Mihelic 
Christian Schwartz 
Elizabeth Spiridakis
Junior design staff:
Freddy Anzures 
Aradhana Bothra 
Alberto Capolino 
KC Cheung 
Neil Donnelly 
Behnam Farahpour 
Ed Knittel 
Simona Lo 
Michael McCurdy 
Katie Minardo 
Claudia Oliva 
Edith Pong 
Lilly Rouhani 
Jacey Stroback 
Nina Venkatesh 
Michael Zimmer
4 : AI R
Admit it. You have always wanted to be able to fly. Even if only for a 
moment, or during an absent-minded daydream, or while gazing up at 
the geese in their awkward Vs, at one point in our lives we have all 
said, What if...
This issue is for that desire. Air is the fantastical part of the elements. 
It is what surrounds us, yet it also rises above our drudgery. Two of the 
best examples are oxygen_tank #2] and Three out of Five. In oxygen_tank #2] a free-flowing form tumbles and dances down the page. 
Three out of Five uses fluid dialogue and ends with expansive possibilties for its characters. Also noteworthy are An Interupted 
Conversation, Lights Out, and a cafeteria on planet earth. All use 
air as a medium to move sound. Under a leafless tree, Interviewing 
the Wind, and A Walk Down Beeler (in November) all reflect on 
how air affects the senses through breath and wind.
Most of the layouts in this issue express airiness through floating, 
misty imagery such as in Jen-Air-Range, Under a leafless tree, 
Lights Out, or through spacious, open layouts demonstrated by the 
designers of A Walk Down Beeler, Guernica s College Education, 
and oxygen_tank #2]. As for the rest of the visual elements, all 
exhibit a carefree, experimental attitude, a perfect note on which to 
end the semester.
As our journey through the elements draws to a close, we would like 
to extend a heartfelt thank you to all the individuals who have submit
ted to Dossier or helped us in any way over the past year-and-a-half.
thanks,
Marshall
Matt

---------------------------------------------------

Candice Amich is a junior 
English and creative writing 
double major minoring in psy
chology. She is the poetry editor 
of the Oakland Review. After 
graduation she plans on working 
abroad for several years before 
pursuing an MFA in poetry.
Jesse Kates thanks Nancy, 
Yerin and Pepe for their reading, 
support and criticism. A nefari
ous and ruthless writer, Jesse also 
plans to glut the Dossier office 
with poetry submissions, thereby 
usurping control of the maga
zine's content.
Adam Ratana is majoring in 
industrial management and 
minoring in psychology, al
though he eventually would like 
to study philosophy. Adam has 
previously been published in 
Dossier. He likes music and 
doesn't like fake people. He's a 
native New Yorker and his par
ents currently live in Brooklyn. 
Listen for him on WRCT.
Justin Bigos is a senior cre
ative writing major. He has 
poems in the current issue of the 
Three Rivers Review. He is also 
on the fiction and poetry staff of 
the Oakland Review.
Matt Moore is a junior in the 
creative writing program. He has 
been published in the PostGazette. He believes that few 
poets present their worlds hon
estly, and fewer still speak hon
estly about what they do; he 
shares Charles Bukowski's sen
timent that "I was born to hus
tle roses down avenues of the 
dead."
Nick Zitelli is a junior creative 
and professional writing double 
major, with a minor in film 8c 
media. He has been published in 
Sloping Halls Review. He enjoys 
writing about topics that revolve 
around questions often asked by 
our generation (our evolving cul
ture, our future, our country, etc.) 
Next semester he is studying 
abroad at the University of 
Western Australia in Perth, 
Australia. Originally from New 
Jersey, he likes to smoke.
Dave Elman is a senior 
creative writing major originally 
from the endless New Jersey 
suburbs. He has previously been 
published in Dossier and enjoys 
various subgenres of electronic 
music. He wishes more people 
would call his radio show on 
WRCT.
Diana Lalor is a senior cre
ative and professional writing 
major. She has plans of going 
into veterinary medicine and 
becoming a professional cat lady. 
This is her first time being pub
lished in Dossier.
Chloe Hiyu is a senior archi
tecture major. She has no affilia
tion to tunas of any kind and 
throwing them into the limelight 
is purely coincidental. When not 
caught in constipated thoughts, 
she likes to look at yellow 
Volkswagen bugs. This is her 
first time being published.
Conor Platt is a senior major
ing in finance. He has been pub
lished and received the Editor's 
Choice award in the National 
Library of Poetry's upcoming 
anthology Sea of Tranquility.
He would like to thank Neil 
Donnelly for his design.
WRITERS

---------------------------------------------------

Spinning Outwards
On the side lawn of the Church 
we pick clovers; split every third leaf 
in half. Your shoulders sag 
and your lower spine collides 
with rough bark. It reminds you 
of the Weeping Willows 
which rasped against the bedroom 
window of the large stone estate 
you grew up in. You would pray 
for a sharp rain to soften 
the cold gray exterior. You want 
to say the long corridors 
were maintained, like in a museum, 
but your speech slips mausoleum.
Watching cars meet and diverge 
at the intersection, I am aware of my fingers 
trembling above the skinny thread 
of a web. It connects me to the bark 
at your back. In Catholic school 
I thought myself a spider and spinning 
outwards dangerous. The passageways 
were solemn with so much weaving 
gone unnoticed. I was almost grateful 
for the small dissapointments back then; 
an excuse to disentangle from my lacework,
Our mound of four-leaf mutations 
growing larger, we wonder 
if we can be more than just mirrors 
to each other. If anyone can 
ever recant us from our centers.
We imagine a world of webs, 
wonder if we would want this.
Candice Amich

---------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS
1. A Walk Down Beeler (in November)
written byAdam Ratana  designed by Simona Lo
2. oxygen_tank #2]
written by Chioe Hiyu  designed by Elizabeth Spiridakis
3. untitled
a photograph by Lisette Miller-Dixon
4. Under a leafless tree
written by Jesse Kates - designed by KC Cheung
5. Lights Out
written by Nicholas Zrtelli  designed by Jacey Stroback
6. a cafeteria on planet earth
written by Conor Platt  designed by Neil Donnelly 
photograph by Carrie Schneider
7. Three out of Five
written by Justin Bigos  designed by Claudia Oliva
10. Jenn -Air Range
written by Matt Moore  designed by Jody Mihelic
11. Guernicas College Education
written by Diana Lalor  designed by Michael Zimmer
12. An Interrupted Conversation
written by Dave Elman  designed by Michael McCurdy
13. Interviewing the Wind
written by Dave Elman  designed by Lily Rouhani
14. Spinning Outwards
written by Candice Amich  designed by Ed Knittel

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

I sit with the wind 
and let it dictate  
the conversation.
interviewing 
the wind.
By : 
DaveElman.
The tubes of chimes play catch
with a teak disc, hurl it around the circle.
They sing with excitement. A woman emerges 
from her apartment, shouts measured words, 
swings a broom head at the choir. It crashes 
earthward. Her dumpy legs sail 
over the front step.
An airplane glides, I'm sorry, John painted 
on one wing. His fingers bent the edges 
of the letter again and again, the quick 
of his love pressed into a paper dart. He tossed 
it out the window, half hoping it would fly 
back, but it hooked left and vanished. Now 
it strikes a terrier in the eye. The dog whimpers.
An autumn parade of leaves 
meanders through the courtyard, 
falls on cracked bricks. The chain saw 
blast of a blower scoots the leaves 
westward to the street. Maintenance 
worker in deep blue coveralls scratches 
his ass, swipes at his nose with a sleeve.
The scent of freshly baked bread
carries out into the streets. It is thick
between my teeth, pulls apart like a handshake
between old friends. Sewage wafts
to my nostrils, riding the metro of the air,
tips its cap to the bread. I gag,
and the rot smiles a crooked grin.
Willowy jacks of dandelion seed
float into cheeks. My hands slap
them away, and they tussle
like prizefighters dropped into a free-for-all.
Their hits on the canvas are births
of yellow flowers, the ragged
dirty green of the leaves.
I decide I've heard enough
and kick open the door to my apartment.
My fingers peel a coffee filter
off the stack, shove it into the basket.
I spoon in some grounds, flick on 
the machine, and watch the liquid 
drip into the carafe.
Outside the wind screams.

---------------------------------------------------

CTOJ C-.
12
We're back at Victoria's,
the dessert case hitting us
before we're inside. Ricotta cold sweat
covers a cheesecake wedge
and ladyfingers tread the tiramisu's
mascarpone sea. We see the waitresses circulate
among the white draped tables
of the front room. Chester
is out of eyeshot, maybe on his balcony.
On a theater set, he would be a pining Juliet 
to our reluctant Romeo, dark night 
and the tower's height our allies.
A waitress guides us to a table inside, 
those outside already cradling the lullaby 
of good conversation, silky food.
Chester is where we expected. He preens 
for the diners, a peacock, fans his scruffy 
white hair, puffs out his knit shirt.
Like he saw on TV, he's the pope, 
ready to address throngs of Catholics 
on gastronomy, the way things should be.
We order, break small talk 
over the table and stir round 
the fragments. They stick to fingers 
_and hang sweet on lips.
Chester appears, a smile clotheslined
8SII ...........?j )--------across his face. The fire of the lighter
has claimed his beard. Get up 
he says, flips up like a coin, 
his palms bounce two more.
We push back our chairs and wait.
He sweeps the floorboards 
with a loafer, arranges the dishes 
in a semicircle, whisks the table 
over his head and bursts 
through the double doors.
With the crash of metal on concrete 
he tells us where to finish our meal. 
One by one Chester ferries back 
white porcelain plates, saucers, 
cups. A spoon falls from a saucer.
The air bristles with curses.
Dave Elman

---------------------------------------------------

Quiet breath of cold smacks my face 
and the Sun plays hide n seek
Under me leaves crinkle sofdy 
like your voice
I zip my jacket, the one Ill never climb mountains with 
cuz Im getting cold
And I keep walking, huddled tight 
but Im getting colder somehow
Hello?
I guess Its just me now.
Adam Rarana

---------------------------------------------------

oxygen, tank #2]
squeezed crinkled lemon 
crushed melting ice 
a flake of tuna lay dead in
disguise
screaming feet in dainty heels 
pruning lips
and thus your feel 
a flake of tuna lay dead
in diguise
stainless steel clips 
fastening you 
endless scribbling 
coalescing into fields 
a flake of tuna lay
dead in disguise
breathing
this same nothingness 
choking 
please sublime
that flake of tuna 
lay
dead
to your surprise.
Chloe Hiyu

---------------------------------------------------

Guernica's College Education
. . painting is not done to decorate apartments." 
Pablo Picasso
Picasso's child Guernica is anxious 
there will not be socks large enough 
to cover swollen feet, 
worries over who to call for food, 
over where to go on Friday night.
Impassioned with life's determined fire,
Guernica wants a future that walks calmly straight 
and tall in the light of day. Guernica reaches 
for this desire but is trampled, bled upon.
At last Picasso's child spins violently from the light 
with desperate pride and looks for comfort in the dark.
A furniture discounter discovers Guernica 
in the shadows of memory, replicates and sells it, 
in slightly shrunken stature, at sixty percent off. 
Guernica thrives in the United States, 
hiding beer stains and dirty smudges.
Through an alternate route, the child 
has reached his longed for destination.
Impassioned once again with life's determined fire, 
Guernica follows muddy footsteps entrenched 
with the shriek of time 
in defiance of his Father.
Guernica is anxious there will not be 
enough socks to make it through the week, 
worries over who to call for food, 
worries about what to do on Friday night.
Diana Lalor

---------------------------------------------------

10
"tS \ rJM& r'SOUWBMB-S'Zl'-l
'; fSam M,v^:>:' r
n
Home on the strange relationships 
that spring from my jalopy maybe 
a flywheel or an alien bolt, littered 
all along the berm of a passageway 
to the South, 8c if you swept up 
my junk you could build yourself 
a cotton gin, girl. Curses, tarnation 
this damn rain sticks to my head
lights, my babydolls eyes cant 
cry, but they are bright. The kind 
of brightness I gave up all those 
degrees ago, the kind of brightness 
I came home to in the thanksgiving 
oven. You scrubbed grease from that 
pan using tattered cloths for weeks,
8c who wouldnt love you for that, 
girl. Then I left. Here come more 
fresh racks of widgets 8c I cant 
leave, I really cant leave this time, 
so come with me: here in the center 
of our country might be the center 
of the earth, we could love each other 
hot 8c heavy. Here our metal hunka-junk will stop rusting, here you 
can call me in from the fields. 8c if 
the night spirits away our lesser-loved 
children, no one but the antelopes 
will see us becoming emotional.
Matt Moore

---------------------------------------------------

untitled
Lisette MiUer-Dixon

---------------------------------------------------

Under a leafless tree
Students pass on tracks. 
Staccato breathing, downcast 
eyes, missing the drama above.
A young cloud exits left, 
leaving a beaming maw 
steaming the breath of heaven.
December bursts with life.
The frost leaps, clings 
to oblivious boots. Sparkling 
mites of moisture freeze 
their little songs, dwarfed 
by the drumbeats of their hosts, 
that care-worn leather.
Motes of light swirl 
in the water of my sight, 
eyes bruised by monitors, 
stunned by the sky's blinding 
roundness.
Here, we worship squares:
the Pixel, the Straight 
Edge, the Razor.
The world is an oval, 
a pregnant belly.

---------------------------------------------------

"We should be in calc right now," he 
says.
"A lot of things should be a lot of 
fucking different ways," says Larry. He 
flips the coin. Heads.
Groups of students, in twos, threes,
sevens, stride up the sidewalk. A boy
runs up and punches another in the
back. They tackle each other on the
concretearms, legs, baseball caps, 
laughs. The window is fogging up fromTails, motherfucker
the heat inside.
Stephen always wore a backwards 
Yankees cap. Matt and Larry are Red 
Sox fans, no one knows why. Matt 
thinks of yesterday morning, the day 
after the Yanks took the Sox 2-1 in 
eighteen innings, when Stephen got in 
the backseat with a snort. He turned 
the bill of his hat around to his fore
head, pointed at the white embroidered 
Y resting inside the N, and he told Matt 
and Larry they could go fuck them
selves.
'Two out of three," says Larry. He 
flips. "Tails, motherfucker." He laughs.
He flips again: heads.
"I dont have any ties," says Matt.
He still has the car in drive, his toes 
resting on the accelerator.
says Larry.I" I I J r*Three out of five," jTails, m Tails, 
motherfuckerLmotierr
They do this every time, until they 
get the tails they need.
Larrys biting his lip.
He flips the quarter, and flips it 
again. "We leave," he says. A vein, pale 
blue and raised, traces an L from his 
crewcut to his eyebrow.
Matt digs under the seat and pulls 
out an old t-shirt, stiff with dried sweat. 
He wipes at the inside of the window, 
creating an almost-transparent half
moon. He watches the twenty-minutes 
late students, most hurrying now, 
shoelaces coming undone, hair still 
damp; a couple taking their time.
"So where should we go?" he says.
The car buckles for a second, but 
doesnt stall.
He feels a flush of blood in his neck 
and on his ears. A faint pulsing in his 
chest.
i Tfiey watch, 
the gates, and;'pie security guard 
tAthem.. The window fog!
^J\4att piays witntne keychain, dan
gling at his knee.
He waits to feel the warm human 
movement of his friend, right next to 
him.

---------------------------------------------------

down the heater. "Should we stop at 
Lous or the other news stand?"
They come to a stop sign at Down 
St., a small hill with a few houses, a 
dead end with remnants of dynamited 
stone guarding the edge. This is 
Stephens street. His family lives on the 
first house on the right, the nicest house 
on the block.
"Go straight," says Larry.
The dcejay hoots good morning and 
tells them to call in for tickets to the 
Room Full of Blues show in New Haven 
this Saturday. He says, Im off in a halfhour, but stay tuned for The Wigmaster
8
and his Blues Plate Special.
"Turn this shit off," says Matt.
Theyre approaching the edge of the 
boulevard, the gated entrance to their 
high school.
Larry cracks open the window and 
flicks out his butt. "Im sweating," he 
says. He turns off the radio. "Turn on 
the a.c."
Matt laughs. "The a.c." He looks at 
Larry. "I told them Id pay the extra 
thousand if they made sure the car was 
loaded."
Larry cracks up. He picks stuffing 
out of a hole in the vinyl dashboard and 
puts it in his mouth and chews on it.
"Youre gonna make me fuckin 
crash," says Matt. His face is red and he 
starts to tear. "Seriously."
'You should crash this piece of shit."
"My insurance even covers hailstorm 
damage." says Matt. "Id collect serious 
cash."
Larry swallows hard and takes a 
deep breath. He gives a last chuckle.
Theyre at Lincoln Boulevard, a wide 
street, the high school dead-center at 
the end of it. They take a left, heading 
toward the gates.
"You should crash it," says Larry.
Matt never got a parking pass, so 
they always look for spots up and down 
the side streets. They find one quickly, 
on McKinley. They turn and pull in.
Larry has his hands folded in his lap.
"What are you wearing tomorrow 
night?" says Matt.
"I dont know." Larrys looking out 
his window.
Matt sees an old woman walking down 
her stairs in slow motion. Shes wearing 
sweats and white jogging shoes.
"Can I borrow a de?" says Matt.
Larry turns toward him. He says, 
"Lets not go today."
Lately theyve been skipping school, 
maybe at least once .a week. It seems 
the closer they get to graduating, the 
more they risk summer school. Its usu
ally quick: Larry will say, Forget it, not 
today. Stephen, behind them, will say, 
Why the fuck not?you know Im down 
to skip. Theyll be sitting in one of 
these spots, on one of these streets, and 
Larry will pull out a coin.
"Heads, we go, tails, we skip," he 
says. The quarter looks polished in his 
palm.
Matt looks out the window at the 
stragglers. Theyre fifteen minutes late.

---------------------------------------------------

Lights Out Nicholas Zitelli
Its only a breaker, 
says the voice over air waves.
The woman clutches her coffee 
wondering how many gray hairs 
were just added to the collection.
A girl at the table in the corner 
studies to one day fix the breaker 
problem on her own
while the already-made employees 
sit at their Amtrak table, content 
with their Amtrak life.
Wind ratdes the cars.
Power returns - a thousand 
bright ideas at once.
I forget about my own destination
that these clattering cars
roll me to on riveted road rails,
consumed in my magical mystery 
tour, floating in my contentions, 
my intendons, towards my Camel Lights.
Battling turbulent air flow, I crawl 
one car back to the limited-hours 
smoking car,
I light up
as the lights go out.
Trying not to pollute his air,
I lean over to the bear-clutching 
boy next to me and whisper,
Dont worry, its only a breaker.

---------------------------------------------------

a cafeteria on planet earth
Moving peas on a plate.
While someone watches atoms form into new matter 
I hear nothing,
But
The conversation of other knives and forks 
Talking through plates 
Glasses quietly colliding into tables, 
it all seems strange.
Yet, pleasant
I hear the traces of life
In a symphony of silverware
I see still lips
Their hands form words from air.
I realize that sound has bfeen drained out of the ears of everyone. 
A silent language produces laughter from across the room 
As the sounds of silverware resonate in the background.
There is silence between
My mind is just waiting
Listening to a silverware symphony on planet earth
Conor Platt

---------------------------------------------------

Three
Out
of
The light is on in the living room, 
the rest of the house dark against the 
dawn sky. Matt beeps the horn for 
about the tenth time, then goes in to get 
him.
Before he rings' the bell, Larry opens 
the door. His backpack is on and hes 
stretching the telephone cord across the 
room.
"All right," he says to the other line. 
He hangs up. "Lets get in the car, its 
freezing in here."
They brace themselves against the 
whip of wind and open then slam the 
doors.
Justin Bigos
The car starts right up.
"They caught Esteban." Larry 
coughs into his fist and reaches in this 
coat pocket for his cigarettes. "He was 
hiding at his bitchs house."
"Fucking punk," says Matt.
"You got a light?" says Larry.
Last night Matt got a call from 
Larry. Stephen had just been shot down 
in front of the Y. He had finished play
ing basketball when he came out, still 
sweaty and high, and Esteban and his 
boys fired at him right on the sidewalk 
at 7PM.
"No." Matt pushes in the car lighter.
"Four months," says Larry.
Matt pulls out onto the street, miss
ing someone in his blind spot. She 
swerves, honks and give him the finger.
They head down Sylvan, a long road 
of graffitied stop signs, and pass by P.T.- 
-the housing project named after P.T. 
Barnum, the long of the circus, the only 
claim to fame this city has.
The lighter pops out and Larry 
touches the hot orange circle to the tip 
of his Newport. "Damn, Im tired. We 
should stop for coffee."
"Every Jamaican in that jails gonna 
be after his ass," says Matt.
The first light from the sun is com
ing up from the ground, highlighting 
the edges of the bandaged trees, the ten
ements behind them, the sky. They take 
a left.
"Four months and we fucking gradu
ate." Larry holds in a drag, and as he 
exhales says, "Turn on the radio."
Matt turns on the radio. Its 
R.E.M., but the song is almost over.
The cops are lined up at the bottom 
of Reservoir, on either side, doing a spot 
check. They dont stop the car.
Matt turns right onto Madison.
"Its fucking hot in here." He turns
