Rachel Katzin
A E Phi
Barbara Kerr
Dee Gee
Teena Stern
Theta
Sheila Graul
Kappa
W
A
Mimi Walsh
Chi O
Lynn Rushton
Sig Kap
Barbara Moore
Dee Gee
Mary Tinker
Tri Delt
Marilyn Wilhelm
Sig Kap
Susan Armstrong
Chi O
Nancy Medis
Tri Delt
Shirley Wilson
Theta
Janet McPeake
Kappa
Sorority Drives 
Continue All Week
Men of Carnegie Tech, be prepared! The annual wooing and 
pursuing of the voting population of Tech by the sorority girls in 
behalf of their queen candidates is beginning. For one solid week, the 
men are entertained, served dinners by the prettiest, most winning
wenches this side of MGMs*---------------------------------------------------------
^Helen of Troy set, and just all
round spoiled pink. Some men
have been known to go into a 
trauma following Spring Carni
val Queen elections because of 
the sudden withdrawal of atten
tion.
The DGs, Tri Delts, Sig Kaps, 
A E Phis, and Kappas presented 
their candidates in Skibo today at 
11:30 and 12:30. Tonight the girls 
(will serenade the fraternities and
Carnegie Hosts 
Twelve Schools 
In Debate Contest
Carnegie Tech was host to 
twelve colleges last Saturday in 
its sixth annual Tartan Debate 
Tournament. Heidelberg won first 
place with an 8 win, 0 loss record. 
Pitt Women and Mt. Mercy placed 
second and third. This is the thirddormitories Tomorrow the Theta* j tIllie Heidelberg has taken first 
and Chi Os will present their
candidates at 12:30 in Skibo. Ser
enading will continue Thursday 
night, while dinner serving will go 
on all week at the various fra
ternities and dorms. The skits fol
low this years Carnival theme of 
Musical Mischief.
Alpha Epsilon Phi tumbled in
to Skibo in shades of turquoise 
*t-and rose and harlequin checks to 
present their candidate, Rachel 
Katzin. Rachel is a painting and 
design student from North Caro
lina.
Chi Omega will march into Ski
bo tomorrow to the tune of Toy 
Soldiers to present Susan Arm
strong and Mimi Walsh, their 
candidates for Queen. Sue and 
Mimi are both home ec students 
^,from Pittsburgh.
An old fashioned talking pic
ture theme of Firemen and 
Flames-ushered in Delta Gam
mas candidates, Barbara Kerr 
and Barbara Moore. Both Bar
baras are home ec students from 
this state. Barb Moore is from 
Library, and Barb Kerr is from 
Pittsburgh.
The Kappa Kappa Gamma Kore 
took possession of Skibo to in
troduce their candidates, Sheila 
Graul and Janet McPeake. Sheila 
is a home ec student while Janet 
studies secretarial work.
Sigma Kappa presented the tru
ly Matchless Skit, presenting 
Lynn Rushton and Marilyn Wil
helm, their matchless candidates. 
Lynn is a secretarial student. Mar
ilyn is in the science department.
The chalice with the palace 
l^ias the brew that is true, when 
Mhe Thetas introduce Shirley Wil
son and Teena Stern tomorrow in 
Skibo. Both girls are home ec stu
dents. Teena hails from Atlanta, 
Georgia. Shirley is from Pitts
burgh.
Those nightshirts in Skibo to
day werent late students catch
ing a cup of coffee before class. 
That was Tri Delts telling the 
campus about their candidates via 
lAhe nightshirt tails of the Pajama 
Game. Nancy Medis is a general 
studies student from Pittsburgh. 
Mary Tinker is a P&D from Wil
mington, Delaware.
place in the 6 years the tourna
ment has been conducted. Each 
school debated four rounds with 
both its affirmative and negative 
teams, and after the first round 
winners were matched with win
ners and losers for the three other 
rounds. The host team with Doug
las Cramer of the English de
partment as its coach, and Jack 
Belkin as its student manager 
made the arrangements, and the 
Veterans Club served as timers 
and chairmen.
After the debates, an awards 
banquet was held in Morewood 
Gardens Recreation Room. Dr. 
Austin Wright, head of the En
glish department spoke at the
banquet, and awards were pre
sented to the winning teams. New 
York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and 
Washington were the states repre
sented at the tournament. The 
guest schools were Geneva Col
lege, Heidelberg College, Hough
ton (New York), Kent State Uni
versity, Juniata College, M t.
Mercy College, Penn State Wo
men, Puget Sound College, Uni
versity of Buffalo, University of 
Pittsburgh men, University of
Pittsburgh women, and Xavier 
(Ohio.)
Tech Cooperates 
With Industries 
In Basic Research
The eighteenth in the series of 
conferences concerning basic re
search was held April 20 in room 
100 Porter Hall. The topics dis
cussed were kinetics of the ad
sorption and desorption of meth
anol on coal; irreversible adsorp
tion of amines on coal, vacuum 
pyrolysis of coal  properties of 
the solid distillate fraction; vac
uum pyrolysis of coalreactions 
in the condensed phase.
These conferences are a part of 
Carnegie Techs cooperative plan 
with certain industries which help 
Tech financially. Tech recipro
cates by doing basic research of 
industrial interest.
During the conferences, repre
sentatives from industry are al
ii Continued on page 81
CT73
VOL. 49No. 24 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 24, 1956
Sorority Events
The sorority competitions 
will be held on Fine Arts 
lawn at 2:00 Friday following 
the coronation of the Queen 
at Call Day ceremonies. The 
competition will consist of 
surprise relay races, very 
much like last years races. 
The nature of the races is 
kept secret in orcter to pre
vent practicing, which is all 
out of proportion to the value 
of the event as a Carnival ac
tivity. The Queen and her 
court will preside over the 
competitions.
Tartan, Thistle, PiDE 
Elect New Officers
One hundred members of the four official Tech publications as
sembled at the Park Schenley restaurant for the gala Pi Delta Epsilon 
publications banquet on Thursday, April 19,
The Pi D E! banquet, which has replaced the individual publicaQueen Voting
Voting for Carnival Queen 
will be held by APhiO in Ski
bo, this Friday, April 27, from 
11:30-1:30. All male day stu
dents are eligible to vote.
SnS Head Over Heels 
To Open Next Monday
By Beth Liden
Opening night for the forthcoming Scotch n Soda production, 
Head Over Heels, is only six days away. Although the public will 
see a beautifully co-ordinated performance, displaying the talents of 
many Tech students,, they cannot fully visualize the long hours of
labor put in not only by the cast,*--------------------------------1--------------------
musicians, and the directors, but -w/~ R m l lvDJv A s 1,oraac 
ho Be Interviewed 
On Next Merrimac
also the people working on cos
tumes, properties, staging and 
other ' technical aspects of the 
show. Being done in a highly dif
ferent style, theater-in-the-round, 
the show has. presented a chal
lenge to the ingenuity of all con
cerned.
WRCT announced yesterday 
that KDKAs unhappy, early-getThe music was written by Joe tei'-uPPer Rege Cordic, will be a
Harris, while the skits were cre
ated by Bob Smith; Both receiv
ed assistance from John Kestner. 
The co-directors of the show are 
John Conboy, who has had two 
summers of previous experience 
with theater-in-the-round, and 
John Kestner. They have had to 
solve several problems concern
ed with this new medium. Evguest on the school stations Sat
urday night marathon: Radio
Merrimac. The interviews, which 
will originate live from Cordics 
home in Sewickley, Pa., are to 
be based on the theme: At home 
with Rege Cordic.
When interviewed, Pittsburghs 
leading Lover of good music 
claimed: Ive always loved gimervthing  says Conbov has to be mickS *  * and ^ a11 for this oneerytnmg, says ^onooy, nas to be Yf)U can bg gure that ni be <at
neater and more precise, because 
the audience will be very close. 
We want to make a more intimate 
type of show, so that the audi
ence can participate.
Choreography Problem 
In striving for simplicity, the 
directors have had to cut down 
the number of people in the dance 
numbers so that the stage wont 
appear cluttered. They have found 
that the gym converts easily into 
theater-in-the-round. The chore
ographers, Jill Hirshenhorn and 
[Contintted on page 8J
home with Rege Cordic on Sat
urday.
The Radio Merrimac staff has 
planned to broadcast the inter
views at 6:15, 6:35, and 7:05 in the 
evening.
The interview will be transmit
ted to the Carnegie Union studios 
of WRCT by a new method of re
mote broadcasting that has been 
perfected by the stations technical 
department just recently. This 
method, they say, means that 
 WRCT will be able to go any
where that Tech goes.
tions banquets, is held to an
nounce the new staffs, the new 
Pi D E members, and to present 
the national and local publications 
awards as well as to bring to
gether the publications staffs at 
a purely social gathering.
Tom Wright, former sports edi
tor of the Tartan and social chair
man of PiDE, acted as master of 
ceremonies. To start off the eve
ning, Edwin Beachler, an edi
torial writer for the Pittsburgh 
Press, gave a brief talk, after 
which the new staffs and awards 
were announced.
Awards
After the PiDE publications 
awards (Tartan, November 8, 
1955), Ed Feigenbaum, president 
of Pi Delta Epsilon, presented the 
Edward E. McDonald Award for 
outstanding achievement in journ
alism to Robert Russell, editor of 
the Tartan. Ed himself won the 
PiDE Medal of Merit Award.
The new officers of Pi Delta 
Epsilon, the national journalism 
honorary, are: Stephanie Mackay, 
president; Bob Russell, vice presi
dent; Pat Mitchell, secretary; Neil 
Bernstein, treasurer; and Evelyh 
Alessio, social chairman.
The new members of PiDE are 
Bob Garrison, Peggy Heath, 
Jeanie Walker, Carl Arend.t. 
Larry Wilbur, Rick Horton, Ed 
Rogers, Bob Hoppe, Marty Ostroff, Dave Stea, Neil Bernstein, 
and Dusty Wassermann.
At the banquet, the new Tartan 
[Continued on page 8]
Plank Joustitig
There will be a meeting on 
Thursday, April 26, at 4:30 in 
the ATO house, for all plank 
jousting chairmen. It is nec
essary that all be present in 
order to draw positions on the 
place sheets. At this time the 
judges and the number of 
teams per organization will 
be decided upon. By April 28 
the $5.00 fee per team, al^ng 
with the names of the people 
on the teams and two alter
nates. must be turned in to 
Ron Draper at the ATO house.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 24, 195
riucwrl
Maintenance Men
Two of Techs sixty or more maintenance personnel closely in
spect a small furnace deep in the bowels of the Carnegie campus.
Teclis Maintenance Personnel 
Are Unsung Heroes Of Campus
By Gene Anderson
Look around the Tech campus as you walk to and from your 
classes. You will probably notice that the grounds and the buildings 
are in good orderthe grass is cut, the sidewalks are clean, the halls 
and the classrooms look as if they had been given a thorough goingover with mop and brush. These4----------------------------------------------------------
are things that we, the students the care with which they go
of Carnegie Tech, ordinarily take 
for granted. We know very little 
about the people whose main in
terest is to keep our school spic 
and span. These people are usual
ly in the background, constantly 
cleaning up after us.
To handle the responsibility of 
maintaining the cleanliness of our 
school, a staff of nearly 60 jani
tors and maids is required. They
are supervised by men who have 
a complete knowledge of the prob
lems of keeping an institution such 
as urs liveable. All of live people 
are quite devoted to their work, 
and that is not unusual because 
some of them have been with
Tech for quite a while. For in
stance, Mr. Thomas, building 
foreman of AH, has been asso
ciated with CIT for some 30 
years, and Mrs. Moses, of the 
dorm office in Welch Hall, has 
held a position for a similar 
amount of time.
Versatile Workers
Although the prime concern of 
these workmen is to keep the 
buldings clean, it is not unusual 
to see a janitor shoveling snow 
during the winter months or rak
ing leaves in the fall. Another big 
job is cleaning the gymnasium 
after basketball games and dances. 
In fact, almost any function that 
takes place on the campus proper 
requires some type of housekeep
ing afterwards.
To help make the maintenance 
personnel more unified, they have 
their own publication, The Car
negie Piper. In this periodical ap
pear personality sketches, items of 
current interest, announcements, 
and nearly every other feature of 
a regular newspaper. Another 
function of the group as a whole 
is the annual party held for the 
staff. To anyone fortunate enough 
to attend, everyone seems friend
ly and willing to help in even the 
slightest problem that may arise. 
The spirit of willingness and 
friendliness is shown by every 
member of the organization from 
the top brass right down to the 
janitors and maids. Maids, you 
say? Naturally, Maggie Murph 
has maids instead of janitors.
Many Outside Interests
Not all of their time is spent 
on maintenance. Auiong the per
sonnel are individuals with vari
ed and unusual interests. For ex
ample, Mr. Bronder, the building 
foreman of EH, is a member of 
the school board of Mount Oliver, 
and Mr. Drake of AH, sings'with 
the Pittsburgh Chorale. Others 
have held such jobs as porters on 
the nations railroads, and they 
apply the know-how from their 
previous jobs to the ones that they 
hold at Tech.
Our force of maintenance per
sonnel is a classic example of 
people who really like their work, 
this feeling is exemplified by |
about their jobs.
Music
The string orchestra of Carnegie 
Techs music department will give 
a recital in Exhibition Hall, Col
lege of Fine Arts, Sunday, April 
29. Professor Goesta Andreasson 
will conduct.
Seniors Donald Mushalko and 
Edmund Ladouceur will play vio
lin and piano respectively in 
Bachs'Concerto in A Minor as 
partial fulfillment of the degree 
of Bachelor of Fine Arts.
John Wabrick, tenor, and Eman
uel Rubin, horn, will solo in 
Serenade for Tenor Solo, Horn 
and String Orchestra, by Ben
jamin Britten.
Junior Charmaine Bishkoff will 
perform her first piano solo in 
Fuleihans Epithalamium. Miss 
Bishkoff is a student of Leonard 
Eisner and will graduate in June, 
1957.
The program also includes a 
rendition of Moszkowskis Pre
lude and Fugue, Opus 85 for 
String Orchestra. This concert 
will begin at 8:30 p.m.
AIEE Banquet
The featured speaker at the an
nual spring AIEE-IRE-HKN ban
quet this evening is Dr. W. H. 
Brandt, manager of the director 
systems section for Westinghouse 
Electric Corporation.
Dr. Brandt is one of the group 
of American scientists who toured 
Russia this winter and he is giv
ing a first hand glimpse of Russia 
to Techs electrical engineers to
night in the Carnegie Union. His 
talk, entitled Inside Russia, 
should eliminate many misconcep
tions which the average Tech stu
dent holds about that country. An 
article by him on the Russian en
gineer appeared in the American 
Engineer, an outstanding profes
sional journal.
Other features of the banquet 
are the door prize, an RCA tran
sistor radio, the introduction of 
the new AIEE-IRE officer, and 
the recognition of the new mem
bers of Eta Kappa Nu, the elec
trical engineering honorary. The 
electrical department will also 
say farewell to Instructor A. T. 
Murphy, the popular AIEE branch
counselor, who has been appoint
ed assistant department head at 
the University of Wichita.
Panel Of Americans
The Panel of Americans held 
the seventh monthly meeting on 
Sunday, April 22, at 8:00 p.m. at 
the Carnegie Union. This wa&a 
joint meeting with Hillel, on me 
topic: the origins of anti-Jewish 
and anti-Negro feelings in the 
United States. Dr. Robert 
Schwartz conducted the discussion.
The election of new board mem
bers will be at the dinner meet
ing on Sunday, April 29, 1956, at 
the Carnegie Union. All those who 
have spoken or have been active 
on committees, and are CIT stu
dents are eligible to vote and 'e 
elected to positions on the board. 
The bard, consisting of six mem
bers, must have at least two 
members who have two years of 
academic work remaining at CIT 
at the time of the election.
If the pseudo-intellectuals on 
campus were half as bright as 
they think they are, theyd be 
about twice as bright as they 
really are. j|
Student or Business Girl
Privafe Room and Board
IN EXCHANGE
Baby Sitting and Dinner Dishes 
For Now and/or Summer
Call: HA. 1-0370
IT'S RAINING 
LUCKY DR00DLES!
AUTO ON 
GREASE RACK
. Daniel Au U. of HawaiiWHATS THIS? For solution see 
M paragraph below.
NAUGHTY GHOST 
STANDING IN CORNER
Robin Maier Penn State
SOMETHING IN EYERichard Silbert Columbia
COMET WITH 
PIGTAIL
Amirik KachigianWashington
SOMEBODY'S OFF HER ROCKER in the Droodle above 
and for a darned good reason. The Droodles titled: 
Whistlers Mother out shopping for Luckies. From 
where she sits, Luckies always taste better. Thats be
cause theyre made of fine tobaccomild, good-tasting 
tobacco thats TOASTED to taste even 
better. Rise to the occasion yourself 
light up a Lucky. Youll say its the besttasting cigarette you ever smoked!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
"/* TOtsTD "/
CARELESS 
WINDOW WASHER
Melvin Ander on Colorado State Teacher
COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LUCKIES!
Luckies lead all other brands, regular or king 
size, among 36,075 college students questioned 
coast to coast. The number-one reason: Luckies 
taste better.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, fresher. Smootherf
A.T.C. PRODUCT OFAMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 24, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANFage 
English Instructors New Play 
Is Scheduled For New York,
By Nancie Redpath
Opening in New York on June 12 will be Tech English instructor 
Douglas Cramer s new play Call of Duty, a drama of brainwash
ing in a Russian concentration camp. It will be presented at the 
0Provincetown Playhouse in Greenwich Village, where many of
Eugene ONeills first plays were^--------------------------------------------------------
tried.
' Those who will not be in New 
York for the plays scheduled 
three weeks run can see it at 
the International Theater in 
Crafton Heights, where the same 
play will be produced from April
27 to May 12. Its all male cast 
includes George Binda, Tech Eng
lish instructor, as a Russian col
onel and Lee Hayden, freshman 
engineering student, as a Russian 
soldier.
Mr. Cramer based the drama onaC&npis
PHI BETA KAPPA, I LOVE YOU!
Once there was a Chi Omega named Alfreda Pectate who 
was beautiful and well-formed and wore clothes of the most 
tasteful cut and smoked the gentlest of all cigarettes  Philip 
Morris, of corris!  and had, in addition to these admirable 
qualities, a brain so massive and retentive that she used to read 
the Britannica just for kicks.
Alfreda had one great ambition: to be elected to Phi Beta 
Kappa. Consequently she was all a-dither when she heard a 
rumor one night that a man from the Phi Beta Kappa selection 
board was coming over to the Chi Omega house to interview 
her. Being all a-dither, Alfreda sat down and lit a Philip Morris, 
as she always did when she was all a-dither, for gentle Philip 
Morris, as wise Alfreda knew, i, comfort to the troubled, balm 
to the beset, and a haven to the vexed. But gentle Philip Morris, 
as Alfreda, with her mighty intellect, was well aware, is not 
only a cigarette for times of stress and strain, but also the 
perfect accompaniment to happiness and light. For gentle 
Philip Morris is sunny and cheery and jolly and merry and 
yummy! All this Alfreda, with her giant cerebellum, knew.
By and by there came a loud, masculine knock on the door, and 
Alfreda, composing herself, went to answer it. Wont you come 
in? she said to the man outside. I am Alfreda Pectate. 
And I am Ed Fester, said the man, entering with a friendly 
smile. Ed had found that a friendly smile was a great asset in the 
Venetian blind game, which happened to be Eds game. He had 
nothing to do with Phi Beta Kappa; he had come over to see 
about a new blind for the house mothers bedroom. But, of 
course, Alfreda knew nothing of this.
Do sit down, said Alfreda.
Thanks, hey, said Ed. But I cant stay long.
Of course, said Alfreda and proceeded without delay to 
demonstrate how wide and comprehensive was her learning. 
Deer, she said, have no gall bladders.
*Veer, * she 'fave io AEPhi btecfcfer.
Is that so? said Ed, who until this moment had believed 
deer had gall bladders.
Ben Jonson, said Alfreda. was buried in a sitting position.
Hmm, said Ed.
 Fortnight is a contraction of fourteen nights,'  said 
Alfreda.
What do you know! said Ed.
^ Many people think it is forbidden to wash an American 
flag, said Alfreda. That is not true. It is perfectly proper to 
wash an American flag.
Learn something every day, said Ed.
The smallest fish in the world, said Alfreda, is the Pandaka Pygmea, which is under a half inch when full grown.
How come they buried that Jonson sitting up? said Ed.
Its terribly crowded in Westminster Abbey, said Alfreda.
Oh, said Ed.
Ann Boleyn had six fingers on her left hand, said Alfreda.
Heavens to Betsy! s?id Ed.
& Are there any questions youd care to ask me? said Alfreda.
Just one, said Ed. How big is your house mothers 
windowA tear ran down Alfredas cheek. Well, thats the wa; it 
goes, she sighed. You work and slave and study and then they 
catch you on a trick question!... Oh, well, that s life, I guess.
Forlorn and bereft, she rose and shambled to her bed and 
fell upon it and wept for several days. But finally she pulled 
herself together, and today she is with Byrd in the Antarctic.
Mtx Sbutaan, 195
v You don't have to be a Phibmte to knoH> that Philip Morris, made
* ,he sponsor* of this column, is the gentlest, tastiest cigarette that
money can buy.
experiences related to him during 
his army service, from which 
he recently returned. The Inter
national Theater is a 20 minute 
ride from Tech. Tickets for a 
preview on May 26 can be ob
tained from Mr. Cramer in his 
office in Administration Hall 322- 
E or by calling MAyflower 1-2600 
extension 294.
With his close cropped hair 
and collegiate clothes, Mr. Cra
mer looks and is every bit as 
young as some of his students. 
However, in his 24 years he has 
written and produced several 
plays. His works include Touchback, an expose of college fra
ternity life, television scripts for 
Ohio networks, and one act plays 
for Columbia University. During 
the summer he is general mana
ger of a summer theater in Cin
cinnati, one of the two largest 
of its kind.
My next play will be given 
by a New England stock com
pany and is called Love is a 
Smoke , he said. The title is 
taken from a line in Romeo and 
Juliet, and the plot concerns two 
modern lovers in New York. Its a 
pre-Broadway trial, and I hope 
that it will go on to New York 
later.
This year will be Mr. Cramers 
last year at Tech. After May he 
leaves for Europe to complete a 
novel he is writing, which he has 
also based on his experiences in 
the army.
Pi Mu Epsilon 
Presents Fourth 
In Puzzle Series
Courtesy of Pi Mu Epsilon
You should have found last 
weeks problem somewhat diffi
cult to solve since it was mis
stated in this column. The prob
lem should have read: From one 
of the vertices of the regular nsided polygon inscribed in a cir
cle of radius 1, lines are drawn 
to each of the other vertices of 
the polygon. Prove that the prod
uct of the lengths of all of these 
lines is 1. The problem was stated 
in such a manner as to include all 
of the lines connecting all of the 
vertices. That problem could be 
proven only if the number of ver
tices was odd.
This weeks puzzler: Can 21 
dominoes, each of which covers 
two squares on a checker board, 
be arranged on a checker board 
so as to cover all but the two op
posite corner blocks?
Playhouse
Spring has burst into full bloom 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. The 
musical revue W hats The 
Rush? in the Craft Avenue Thea
ter, has captures all the bright 
freshness of the season, and the 
comedy A Roomful Of Roses is 
now in its final hit week in the 
Hamlet Street Theater.
Whats The Rush? opened its 
months stay at the Community 
Thea'ter on Saturday, April 14. 
Produced by Frederick Burleigh, 
this fun-filled song and dance 
show was written by Charles 
Strouse, Lee Adams, and Mike 
Stewart.
A cast of twenty-six perform
ers is headed by William Glennon, Velma Carey, Bob Parks, 
Josephine Chianese, John Smolko,
Janice Morris, Ray Bevilacqua, 
Eleanor Bruno, and Angela Ro
meo. Whats The Rush?, which 
is stated to remain in the Craft 
Avenue Theater of the Playhouse 
through May 12, is building a 
record-breaking ticket sale.
Pittsburgh Savoyards
The Pittsburgh Savoyards close 
their 18th Season with two per
formances of Gilbert and Sulli
vans Iolanthe, The Peer and the 
Peri, on Thursday and Friday 
evenings, April 26 and 27, at 8:30 
oclock in Antonian Hall, Fifth 
Avenue at Craft Avenue, Oakland, 
Pittsburgh. Musical Director An
gelo Gatto and Production Direc
tor C. E. Hefright have chosen as 
leads Yvonne Leffler in the title 
[Continued on page 7]
J. Paul Sheedy* Was Up A Tree Till 
Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
All day and night bridge games 
are the rage in Donner Hall. The 
record has now been set at 16 
straight hours of play.
"Gorilla my dr*am*r I love you, said Sheedy outside his sweeties window. 
But she was playing it cagey. "Get lost Gargantua, she said. "Ive seen 
better heads on coconuts. Then Sheedy got wise to Wildroot Cream-Oil. 
Now he has confidence in his ape-earance because 
Wildroot keeps his hair handsome and healthy looking 
the way Nature intended ... neat but not greasy. Contains 
heart of Lanolin, Natures finest hair and scalp con* 
ditioner. So don't monkey around with messy hair. Get 
Wildroot Cream-Oil, Americas largest selling hair tonic.
In bottles or unbreakable tubes. It gives you confidence 
in any situation. Use Wildroot Cream-Oil every day 
and you Congo wrong.
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., William si Hie, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil 
gives you confidence
LIGHT WEIGHTTUXEDOS
POWDER BLUE JACKETS
AND
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
Complete Rental Service For Your 
Spring Carnival Dance
STUDENT DISCOUNT
LIBERTY DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
East Liberty5966 Baum Blvd. HI. 1-5972 
Downtown130 - 7th St. AT. 1-6539
115=
snillllllllllll!IIIIIIIHIHII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIII||||||||||||||||||||||||Hllllllllll||||||||||||||||||||||||||[|||||||||llllll[i=
2022202822284381202028222820202228282022282220222020222028282228202028282020282828282822282222282820281222222022282228282028282820202028202220222028202020

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 24, 1956
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone MU 2-4557; Managing Editor. MU 2-8897; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertising Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Managing Editar 
Executive Editor . 
Associate Editor 
Associate Editor . 
Business Manager
Stephanie Mackay ....Robert Russell..........Marjo King.........Richard Fox.... Martin Ostroff
News EditorAnn Forest, .Sports EditorRobert Hoppe, Copy EditorEdwin 
Rogeri, Assistant Business ManagerRobert Sorkin, Advertising ManagerRobert 
Peter-, Circulation ManagerHarley Bembach, SecretaryJoan Seidel.Reporters Evelyn Alessio, Bob Jack, Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn. En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell, Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Joan Copich. Anna Hatzfeld. Susie Stryker. Grayce McAllister, Fay Fisher, Carol Sooby, Nancie Redpath, Gene Anderson, A1 Federowicz, Arthur Marino, Lu Fields, Betn Ljden. Features StaffLuis de la Macorra, Marshall Pihl. Sports StaffDick Swaney. Don McClelland. Tom Beig, Fred Heider. Photographer*John Philbrick, John Alexander. Art StaffDave Stea. Copy Staff-Bill Mo wry, Ed Holsten, Jack Walker. Office StaffMary Langdon, Anne Barnes. Circulation StaffIra Levine, Jerry Kreuzer. Advertising StaffHerbert Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron Wagmeister. A1 Goldstein.
Entered a* second class matt on OcvpDer 4. 1907. at the Poet Office atPittvburgn. Pa. under act of March 3. 1879 Accepted for mailing at specialrates of postage provided for in the act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Pres.
Represented foi national advertising by National Advertising. In. College
oei year
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.  Oakland
5TEFR
HEfiEt5 ANOTHER PROBLEM TO 
WHICH YOU CAN APPLY YOU*? 
TAf^NEGlE PLAN' EDUCATION
Editorial
Politics
Four years ago a foreign student came 
to America, eager and enthusiastic about the 
1952 presidential elections. At Tech he looked 
about for student campaigns, for heated dis
cussions of electoral issues during the allimportant fall pre-election months.
He didnt find them. The faculty (and a 
few students) voted for Eisenhower or 
Stevenson, Eisenhower won, and everyone 
seemed content. There were a few rumbles 
from the more interested democrats, but life 
settled down into its routine. The student 
didnt understand this: in his own country 
the people took a much greater interest in 
the United States elections than the Ameri
cans did. Why?
Here in the United States our two par
ties, while differing over minor points, fol
low a reasonably similar policy, similar 
enough that most of us will not be directly 
affected by a change of parties in the ad
ministration. We are prosperous and secure. 
As long as we and our families are com
fortably fed, housed and clothed we have little 
to excite usreally excite usabout the poli
tical situation.
But the United States is now in a position of world su
premacy. Countries are relying on the United States for 
economic aid. Their political and economic welfare are di
rectly affected by the United States foreign policy. Where 
the personal and family economic security depend on the 
political situation, people are going to voice their opinions 
strongly. They are going to be vitally concerned with U. S. 
policy. And they wonder why we are so complacent and 
distinterested.
So, you think, all this is to say well isnt it nice that 
were so cozy and secure. Actually, in our complacency we 
are forgetting our responsibility, not only to the world "at 
large but to ourselves. In an international situation as in
tense as todays, our peace and prosperity are not so secure 
as we would like to think. Perhaps we realize this and hide 
from it, saying it is the other fellows job to worry about 
that, just as we seem to leave the determination of domes
tic policy to the farmers and the industrialists.
We who are fortunate enough to have a college educa
tion should recognize our responsibility and employ our 
knowledge wisely. We arent compelled to take western 
civ to know that Napoleon went to Saint Helena in 1815. 
We have been taught to think a problem through, looking 
at its broader implications, analyzing its factors and effects. 
It is up to us to realize that perhaps the long range results 
from one partys policies will differ radically from the others, 
and vote accordingly.
Even those who wont be voting in this election will be 
within four years, probably, and should begin now to analyze 
and compare the similarities and differences of the two par
ties. It doesnt matter how you vote, as long as you do vote, 
and know why you are voting the way you are.
S. A. M.
Macorra Instructing his cell-block.
Obviously, 
he makes the grade
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Marshall Pihl has no brains!!
That means his head is empty, or maybe not, 
maybe its filled with utterly false, unconformed, 
and uncouth ideas. It takes a guy with a lack of 
cranium matter to'think up the falsehoods that 
were published last week in this newspaper. Mar
shall Pihl is this guy.
It is very easy to understand why a third-rate 
feature writer can think up these lies. The reason, 
although sad, is a complete lack of material. As 
an example I must expose the fact that the next 
to last paragraph of last weeks Over The 
Table was lifted right out of the daily Pittsburgh 
Press. Thats not all, the last paragraph was news 
taken from WRCTs teletype machine. In any 
world, plagiarism is the cheapest substitute for 
talent.
If you can't drive it, park it people say to 
the drivers that make nuisances of themselves. 
So I say to you Pihl, if you cant write it, leave 
it! Why dont you go back to your little cubicle 
in WRCT to play with your Merrimac and leave 
your borrowed typewriter alone. It would be a 
great improvement to this newspaper.* * *
Head Over Heels is well under way now. All 
[Continued on page 8]
Over The Skibo Table
By Marshall R. Pihl
Luis De La Macorra, the Mexican Hothead, has 
challenged this writer to a duel on the field of 
honor before the plank-jousting contests at Spring 
Carnival. The weapons are to be ketchup-filled 
balloons. I accept this scurvy challenge with pleas
ure.
The Right is on the side of the Skibo Table^ j 
clique! It is our job to fight back at over-ambi
tious radicals and fascists like Macorra and his lot. 
Last week I accused Macorra of being an under
cover worker for the Mexican Fascist Youth Move
ment. This week I will provide documentary proof!
First and foremost I wish to present this pho
tograph below, for which I risked life and limb.
In it is pictured Mr. Macorra briefing his under
cover campus co-workers . . . the other faces 
have been blacked out to protect those who are not 
directly involved in this controversy. Notice th 
sly way in which Macorra has turned his back 
to the camera, in order to make identification diffi
cult! (This is one of the many tricks that men 
such as he have been trained to use). In his hands, 
he holds the plans for a tremendous propaganda 
campaign that is being sponsored by Scotch and 
Soda, a campus group that has unwittingly fallen 
under the Macorra influence.
As my final proof, this week, I wish to demon
strate what occurs when you re-arrange Macorras 
name with an all-seeing eye. Through this simpley 
revision ,we discover that Luis De La MacorraJ * 
is a Radical!
maco R ra 
1 A 
D e 
lu I s 
ma C orra 
1 A 
L uis
Being a gentleman of basically generous nature,
I am willing to give Luis one more chance . . j 
to leave town! Its a losing fight, Macorra . . . or . 
should I call you: Vasco De Gamma Von Reitchlaggenthe terror of four continents!
GO HOME, WETBACK!
-ARROWCASUAL WEAR 
first in fashion
____
NUSTRY
We dont mean just at exam 
time, either. The comfort
conscious guy can tell at a glance 
that these smart Arrow gingham 
shirts are the light-weights that 
make warm weather a breeze. 
The medium-spread collar and 
fresh patterns are just right, alone 
or with a casual jacket. Arrow 
ginghams, in a variety of fine 
patterns are only $5.95.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 24, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------*----------------------------------------------Thinclads Victorious Over W&J;Case
By B. Hoppe and J. Early ?
April 18This afternoon Coach 
Carmans boys bounced back from 
their opening seasons loss to rout 
W & Js track team by a score of 
*-47.
While taking 11 of 15 firsts 
against W & J this cold, wet aft
ernoon, the Tartans proved their 
strength in the field events and 
distance races, losing only the dis
cus. In the dashes and hurdles the 
thinclads didnt fare nearly as 
well, winning only the high hur
dles.
Make your pick
the "pick of the prosSPALDING
Youll stop a lot of horsehide withTi/Aerof these fine 
Spalding gloves. These are the very same gloves used 
by two great names in baseballAlvin Dark,?short
stop captain of the New York Giants and Phil 
Rizzuto,* veteran shortstop of the New York Yankees.
Both these gloves are made with the finest leather, 
deep grease pocket and solid web in trap. You dont 
have to break them in; Spalding does that for you. You 
can see the complete Spalding line of fine gloves at 
your Spalding dealers, now.
LAdvisory Staff * ^P/^LDI^O sns THt PACE > SPORtf
Tech Netters Lose 
1o An Inspired 
Duquesne Team
By Tom Beig
Techs netsters were delivered 
a surprise setback by Duquesne 
on Saturday, 7-matches to 2. 
Neither team was in good shape 
because unseasonal weather has 
kept the squads off the courts, and 
^>ach Moses played everyone in 
si arch of a definite starting line
up. A cold wind bothered the 
players and kept spectators away.
The most exciting match of the 
day was the first singles. Techs 
A1 Glaser and Duquesnes Charly 
Black split the first two sets and 
the third went 3-3 before the tall
er bluffite broke service and went 
on to win 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. Du
quesnes Demongone came from 
l^hind in the second set and went 
to beat Larry Dussair, 4-6, 7-5, 
6-1. Tech managed to win the 
third and fourth singled matches, 
Steve Rowley having little trouble 
downing Scierelle, 6-4, 6-2, and 
Hollands freshman Joe Smeets 
showing promising ability in de
feating Smith 4-6, 6-4, 6-0. Char
ley Shaul injured an ailing knee 
while losing to the hilltoppers 
Kelly, 7-5, 0-3, and may be out of 
action temporarily. Severine beat 
^Jchs Fran Wickham, 6-2, 6-2.
Duquesne made a clean sweep 
of the doubles: Black and Demongone downed Glaser and Rowley 
6-3, 6-3; Scierelle and Smith de
feated Bob Hilles and Ed Crissman 6-3, 6-3, and Kelley and 
Severine subdued Karl Yu and 
Tom Bieg 6-8, 6-1, 6-1.
This week Coach Mosess net* 
ters wil try to enter the winning 
column as they play two matcehs 
of town. Wednesday, they 
they will play at West Virginia, 
travel to Grove City and Friday
second, Danielson, Wash-Jeff, third, Fleegle, Wash-Jeff. Distance20 feet, 2 */* inches.
Pole VaultHamilton, Tech; Zuckerwar, Tech; Templin, Tech. Height 9 it.
April 21In their 80-57 victory 
over Case Tech this cold clear 
afternoon, Coach Carmans crew 
was led to the win by Dick Swaney 
and the Bryant twins. Swaney was 
the leading scorer, winning first in 
the 440 in 51.8 seconds and run
ning anchor man on Techs win
ning four-fifths mile relay team. 
Swaneys running mate in the 440, 
Eric Suggs, came in a close sec
ond.
The Bryant brothers contribu
tion was a win in the two-mile 
race by Larry, while Bill ran on 
the winning mile relay team, took 
third in the half mile, and tied for 
first in the mile with Ottervik
and Whitney, both of Tech.
In the, field events, Hauser 
Frank, and Chuck tied for first in 
the high jump, clearing the bar at 
5Vz feet. Mihm took a broad jump 
first and Frick won his third 
straight javelin throw.
The strength of their recent vic
tories make the Tartans favorites 
as they travel to Westminster 
Tuesday and then return to the 
Skibo Bowl to host Geneva on 
Thursday.
TRACK EVENTS100-yard dashWon by Griffin (Case); 2-Shumaker (Case); 3-Smith (Cam). Time:10.4.220-yard dashWort by Griffin (Case); 2-Shumaker (Case); 3-Smith (Cam.). Time :23.4.440-yard dashWon by Swaney (Carr
[Continued on page 6]
Golfers Lose To West Virginia
By Fred Heider
This week the golf squad was 
chosen and took on its first op
ponent of the season. On Monday 
Coach Rogers posted the an
nouncement that Tom Schorr, 
Mike Fedor, Marty Fertal, Fred 
Heider, Jerry Coon, and Dick 
Hodnik had been selected as the 
six regulars. This announcement 
also listed a playoff for the alter
nate position. As a result of a tie 
match in the snowy gale, Mr. 
Rogers decided to retain both Bob 
Jurick and Jerry Kreuzer in the 
alternates position.
On Friday afternoon the Moun
taineers from West Virginia in
vaded Techs home grounds and 
managed to emerge victorious. 
Inclement weather  snow, cold, 
and high winds  hampered
everyones golf. Golf meets are 
scored on a seven point basis, six 
of these for individual match play 
and the last point for medalist 
honors. The final score was 4Vfe 
to 2% with West Virginias Moroseo winning medalist honors 
with an 82.
The individual matches went as 
follows: Tom Schorr tied (Vfe
point each), Mike Fedor lost one 
down. Fred Heider won four and 
three, Jerry Coon lost one down, 
Dick Hodnik lost to Moroseo two 
down, and Jerry Kreuzer won two 
up. Dick Hodnik led Tech in 
medal play with an 85, with Tom 
Schorr close behind with an 86. 
Marty Fertal, sidelined for the 
past week with a torn cartilage, 
will probably be ready to join the 
team in its contest with Pitt to
day.
ENGINEERS,
SCIENTISTS,
PHYSICISTS,
APPLIED
MATHEMATICIANS
important on-campus 
interviews soon!
Youll learn first hand about the advantages and 
opportunities in choosing a career with a future 
with one of North Americans separate divisions.
Here engineers and scientists are now discovering 
new frontiers in four exciting new fields.
AUTONET1CS
Builders of power for outer space
ROCKETDYNE
Automatic controls man has never built before
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL
Pioneers in the creative use of the atom
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
Complete weapons system responsibility
Contact your placement office today. Make an apppintment to see North American Aviation representative.
Or, write Engineering Personnel Director, Dept. 991- 
20 Col., North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC.
Coca-Cola refresh you so. 
Its sparkling with natural goodness, pure 
and wholesome  and naturally friendly 
to your figure. Feel like having a Coke?
BOTTtED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY V
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
5T Central Ave. HI I-*!I
Coltfe" a  registered rode-mork.  1954, THE COCA-COIA COMPANY
Phil Rizzuto 
fielder's Glove, 
$16.95.
Today the team was sparked by 
s&phomore John Mihm who placed 
*fst in the broad jump and took 
second place in both hurdle races. 
The other leading point getters 
were Bill Bryant, who took first 
in the mile, and his brother Larry, 
who ran a close second and also 
took second behind Arnie Olds in 
the two-mile race.
In the 440-yard dash, Swaney 
and Suggs once more finished 1-2 
only this time Eric Suggs won with 
^waney coming in second. The 
half mile ended in a tie as Wittman and Ottervik, both of Tech, 
finished in a dead heat.
Statistics
TRACK EVENTSMileWon by Bill Bryant, Tech; second, Larry Bryant, Tech; third, Farson, Wash-Jeff. Time4:52.7.
440Won by Suggs, Tech; second Swaney, Tech; third, Peebles, Wash-Jeff. Time:55.3.
120 high hurdlesWon by Blackburn. Wash-Jeff; second, Mihm, Tech; third, Hudak, Tech. Time:18.4.
,t 00-yard dashWon by Danielson,ash-Jeff; second, Smith, Tech;' third, March, Wash-Jeff. Time:11.
330Won by Wittman and Ottervick, tie), both of Tech; third, Farson, WashJeff. Time2:10.
220Won by Peebles, Wash-Jeff: second, Smith, Tech; third, March, WashJeff. Time:24.9.
Two-mile runWon by Olds, Tech; second, Larry Bryant, Tech. Time10:51.9.
120-yard low hurdlesWon by Lesnak, Tech; second, Mihm, Tech; third, Blackburn. Wash-Jeff. Time:14.6.
Mile re)ayWon by Tech (Hamilton, Heinecke, Suggs, Swaney). Time3:48.8.FIELD rVENTS \W/iigh JumpWon by  Hauser, Tech; second. Frank, Tech; third. Bedick, WashJeff. Height 5 feet, 7 inches.Shot pi_>tWon  by Recker, Tech. and Cartner, Wash-Jeff. tie: third, Stitt, WashJeff. Distance37 feet, 6 inches.DiscusWon  by Stitt; Wash-Jeff. second, DAllesio, Wash-Jeff; -third, Strauss, Tech. Distance110 ft, 11 inches.JavelinWon by Frick, Tech; second, Burger, Was! Jeff; third, Simms, WashJeff. Distance156 feet, 4 Ms inches.Broad JumpWon by Mihm, Tech;
Al Frank clears the bar at 5%first against Case.
Alvin Dark 
Fielders Glove, 
$26.50.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 24, 1956
Sigma Nu Hard Pressed But Wins 
Swimming Meet 2nd Year In Row
The 1M swim meet was a'
very hotly-contested one this year, 
as four teams were in the running 
through most of the meet. That 
it was a very tight meet is rapidly 
apparent upon examination of the 
statistics. In the seven events, six 
of last years times were topped. 
There was little change in the 
winners, however, as six of last 
years titlists repeated. The lone 
exception was in the 50 yard free 
style, where Gough of PKA edged 
last years winner, Venti of SN, 
in the fine time of 26.5 seconds. A 
fierce race between PKA and SN 
in the 150 medley relay produced 
a lowering of last years time by 
3.5 seconds by the winner, SN.
Sigma Nu copped two relays and 
two individual events to wind up 
ahead of PKA, who took only two 
individuals but had many seconds 
and thirds. Going into the final 
event, the 200 yard free style re
lay. SN led PKA by one point, 
and a win by either would give 
them the meet. As the race pro
gressed, the well balanced SNs 
widened their lead, and it was ap
parent that the swim trophy would 
be theirs for the second straight 
year.
The IM department wishes to 
thank starter Litch, Head Judge 
Jakub, and the members of the j 
varsity swim team for the fine 
way that the meet was held.
Medley Relay
Sigma Nu................................. 1:33.0
Pi Kappa Alpha .................... 1:35.2
Delta Tau Delta.................... 1:38.0
Kappa Sigma ........................ 1:42.9
Theta Xi................................... 2:04.6
50-Yard Freestyle
Gough, PKA .......................... :26.5
Venti, SN ............................... :26.8
Ritchie, ATO.......................... :27.7
Sauereisen, ATO .................. :28.4
Sowell, KS ............................ :28.7
50-Yard Breastroke
Gross, TX................................. :33.4
McDonald, DTD............... :33.4
Keck, KS ................................. :36.3
Billy, ATO .................................:36.6
Dietrick, ATO ...................... :37.0
100-Yard Freestyle 
Hastings, SN .......................... 1:00.4
Start of the 50 yard breast stroke in intramural swim meet.
Ritchie, ATO........................... 1:04.6
Reuther, PKA......................... 1:05.8
Marik, SN ............................... 1:06.4
Payson, DTD........................... 1:06.8
50-Yard Backstroke
Barvoets, PKA .................................... :30.3
Alexander, ATO ................................ :34.6
Horton, KS............................................. :36.7
Batson, PKA.......................................... 36:8
Fleshman, DTD .................................. :39.2
150-Yard Freestyle
Durdaller, SN......................... 1:48.6
Hallgren, PKA ....................... 2:03.2
Bergren, SN ............... 2:03.4
Chalupa, TX .*......................... 2:10.2
Leach, Citcom ...................... 2:17.6
200-Yard Relay
Sigma Nu............................ 1:50.5
Pi Kappa Alpha.................... 1:58.6
Delta Tau Delta..................... 1:59.1
Alpha Tau Omega................ 2:00.8
Kappa Sigma ........................... 2:04
Team Standings
Pts.
First, Sigma Nu................................41
Second, Pi Kappa Alpha.........37
Third, Delta Tau Delta.................20
Fourth, Alpha Tau Omega .... 19
Fifth, Kappa Sigma.................... 13
Sixth, Theta Xi............................ 9
T rack
[Continued )rom page 5]
negie); 2-Suggs (Carnegie); 3-Tomlinson (Case Time:51.8.
Half-mile runWon by Wittman (Carnegie); 2-Ottervik (Carnegie 3; 3-B. Bryant (Carnegie). TimeZ:06.4.
Mile run  Tie among Ottervik, B. Bryant and Witney (Carnegie). Time 4:58.5.Two-mile runWon by L. Bryant (Carnegie); 2-Olds (Carnegie); 3-Kastansek (Case). Time10:19.6.120-yard low hurdlesWon by Pirnack (Case); 2-Lesnak (Carnegie); 3-Mihm (Carnegie). Time13.9.120-yard high hurdles  1-Pirnack(Case); 2-Budke (Case); 3-King (Carnegie). Time: 17.4.Four-fifths mile relayWon by Carnegie (Heinecke, B. Bryant, Suggs, Swaney). Time2:45.2.
FIELD EVENTSShot putWon by Kaplan (Case); 2- Recker (Carnegie); 3-Ammer (Case). Distance41.4.High-jump1-Tie among Frank, Hauser and Chuck (Carnegie). Height 5-6.Pole VaultWon by Liechty (Case); 2- Tie between Buckerwar and Hamilton (Carnegie). Height10.2.DiscusWon by Wilmer (Case); 2- Strauss (Carnegie); 3-Ammer (Case). Distance125-2.Broad JumpWon by Mihm (Carnegie); 2-Smith (Carnegie i; 3-Pirnack (Case). Distance20-10.JavelinWon by Frick (Carnegie); 2- Aramer (Case); 3-Hayden (Carnegie) - Distance150-6.
 When Winston came along, college smokers finally got flavor  full* 
rich, tobacco flavor  in a filter cigarette! Along with this finer flavor, 
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that-works so well the flavor really 
gets through to you. Join the switch to Winston  and enjoy filter smoking!
 J. ReYNOLOl TOACCO CO., WINSTON - A LEM, W. .
WI3VST03V
/Wm's NJa l
BSR; PK Lead Soccer Race; 
Games Hampered By Rain9 Mud
Softball
Attention softball managers. 
All softball equipment must 
be returned to the towel room 
by 9:30 a.m. on the day fol
lowing your game. Failure to 
do so will result in loss of 
forfeit fee.
By Don McClelland
Rain again hampered the soccer players, but several games were 
played in the quagmire anyway. The constant bad weather that we 
are having has caused the postponement of some games, but tho<?e 
teams who were rained out should make every attempt to complete 
their schedule. Failure to do so^---------------------------------------------------------
will result in the seasons dragging 
on through Carnival.
Skibo League 
Beta Sigma Rho kept the lead in 
the Skibo league with a 2-1 victory 
over PKA. The Beta Sigs were 
pressed by KS, who won again to 
remain one game behind, in second 
place. In other Skibo league ac
tion, SN battled to a 1-1 tie \yith 
the Architects. This league has 
been completed, and BSR and KS 
will enter the playoffs.
Kiltie League 
Kilie league teams fought 
through two games in the past 
week. The Grads were thwarted in 
their drive to regain the lead when 
they were tied, 3-3, by KS B. PK 
edged a surprisingly strong ATO 
team by 1-0, and in doing so, 
clinched at least a tie for the title. 
The teams still in the running for 
the second spot are the Grads, KS 
B, ATO, and the Obelisks.
Skibo League
W.L.T.
00
KS A..........................410
21
............. 122
Independents ............... 140
Kiltie League
41
............. 411
............. 311
............. 212
.............212
............. 220
............. 140
.............040
IM Roundups
HorseshoesThe winners of the 
horseshoes doubles tourney, held 
last Saturday, was the indepen
dent team of Matta and Gat. 
Spohn and Zakman of the Delts 
pitched their teams into secorTj 
place.
Track MeetDue to inclement 
weather, the track meet was post
poned from last Friday. The trials 
will be held on Wednesday the 25 
at 4:30 and the finals on Friday 
the 27 at 4:30. Rumor has it that 
the faculty will enter a team re
cruited from the Highland Park 
Zoo.
There are still a few openings on 
the Faculty Bulldog softball team. 
The bulldogs have a potent crew 
this year, so all interested should 
contact Mr. Birdy at extension 412.
Softball  This weeks softball 
schedule will be posted on the IM 
bulletin board, and the schedule 
for the season will be available in 
the IM office on April 30.
ChessThe leagues have jijri
begun play, but several tearraj 
stand out. They are the Scobell 
Scholars, Capped Pawns, and TDP.
HandballIn recent action, the 
Faculty Bulldogs topped BSR and 
the Slaters took the measure of 
SAE. The standings are:
Front Wall League W. L.
Slaters.................................... 2 0
Phi Kappa ............................ 2 0
KS ....................................... 1 2
Killers..................................... 0 2
SAE ....................................... 0
Back Wall League W. L.
Faculty Bulldogs.................. 2 1
DTD......................................... 1 0
Obelisk ................................... 1 0
Metallurgy ............................ 0 1
BSR........................................ 0 1

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 24, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
(Monday, April JO)
Permanent Positions 
For:
 Aeronautical 
Engineers
 Electrical Engineers
 Mechanical 
Engineers
 Applied Physicists
 Applied 
Mathematicians
(Receiving bachelor or 
advanced degrees 
this June)
Your place In tt.n research pic
ture is delineated fully in com
prehensive literature available 
in your placement office. For 
your own benefit, we urge you 
to review this material today 
then talk wit -or representa
tive on
Monday, April 30
CORNELL
AERONAUTICAL
CoieUtxci 'inc.
43fi8 GENESEE STREET, 
BUFFALO 21, N. .
What young people are doing at General Electric
I ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES |
^CARNEGIfrj;  fift tv/i / >/
AttMJVy v
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter .................................................................... ..... John Van Holt, Jr.
Newman Club Elects Officers; 
Plans May Day Procession
? On Sunday, April 15, Newman Club held a meeting at Carnegie 
Union. Vice-President Dolores Neff was in charge due to the absence 
of President John Van Holt who was at Penn State for the Federa
tion convention. ?--------------------------------------------
An election of officers was held
with xthe following results: presi
dent, Dolores Neff; vice-president, 
John Majetich; recording secre
tary, Edna Thorwart; corresponddates.
On May 20 the annual banquet 
will be held at 6:00 p.m. at the 
Carnegie Union. Several distining secretaries, Claartje Rathjene guests will be in attend
and -Francis Dubich; treasurer, 
^Fred Pope; social committee, Lee 
Green, Bob Hirsh, John Spisak, 
Claartje Rathjene; membership, 
John Majetich; Catholic action, 
John Spisak; publicity, Lee Green, 
Sam LeDonne, Emily Muhic, Gene 
Dragojevich; historian, Emily 
Muhic.
On May 1 the annual May Day 
Procession will be held at Mt. 
Mercy College. The 
in the evening with speakers fol
lowed by a candle light procession 
to an outdoor altar where Bene
diction is then held.
Members are looking forward 
to a bowling party and also a pic
nic which will be held at later
ance and Bishop Carroll will 
the main speaker.
be
Last Call
Engineers Banquet, April 
28, 1956 at 6:00 p.m., Fort Pitt 
Hotel. Food  Souvenirs  
Floor ShowGiftsSpeakers 
Fun.
Evening Council 
In Square Dance
Come on folks, get out your 
ieans and plaid shirt and put on 
Wyour loafers and lets &et ready 
to alamande left and dOzey do 
with a lot of friends at the square 
dance to be held at Thistle Hall 
on Saturday, May 12. Dont worry 
if youve never square danced be
fore because Don Guyar, a well 
known figre caller will be there 
with an orchestra, and at the end 
of the evening Im sure youll ad
mit youve had loads of fun and 
hope to attend another like this 
(0soon.
The dance is sponsored by Eve
ning School Student Council and 
Miss Marilyn Darrah is in 
of the affair. You may obtain 
tickets from members of Student 
Council or Miss Darrah. Also, 
quests for tickets may be sent to 
the Plaid.
This dance is open to the public, 
so come on, one and all lets all 
be squa:
Qtffor this
Summers Work Interesting, Important
As process engineer of the Silicone Products 
Department, Frank Summers first compares 
the results of small-scale, pilot-plant experi
ments with the production methods in actual 
use. Then, using his own knowledge of 
chemical-engineering principles, he designs 
faster, more efficient and more economical 
methods of producing silicone products. 
Frank Summers excellent training, diversi
fied experience and outstanding personal 
qualifications make him a valuable contribu
tor to this engineering team.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Frank Summers came to General 
Electric in 1949, he already knew the kind 
of work he wanted to do. Like each of our 
25,000 college-graduate employees, he was 
given his chance to grow and realize his full 
potential. For General Electric has long be
lieved this: Whenever fresh young minds are 
given the freedom to make progress, every
body benefits the individual, the company, 
and the country.
Educational Relations, General Electric 
Company, Schenectady 5, New York
Engineer Banquet 
Set For Saturday 
At Fort Pitt Hotel
Would you like to get a clock - 
radio, bench grinder, auto first-aid 
kit, 250 watt heat lamp, carving 
set, liquid pencil, electric shaver 
or a foam rubber pillow? Well 
then! Be sure to attend the Car
negie Tech Evening Schools 
forty-first annual Engineers Ban
quet which will be held at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel on Saturday, April
28, at 6:00 p.m. Some lucky felSavoyards
[Continued from page 3] 
role of Iolanthe. Carnegie Tech 
is well represented in Iolanthe. Dr. 
Lawrence Schultz, faculty, is Pro
duction Manager, Mrs. Schultz, 
Costume Committee; Martin Dorff, 
 faculty, Ticket Chairman, Martha 
Eggers, faculty, Membership Chair
man and Stage Crew, Lorraine 
Harz, secretaral staff, Chorus 
Members, Mr. and Mrs. Robert 
Aungst, alumnae, Chorus Mem
bers, and Howard Moses, alumnae, 
Stage Crew.
Both
Young chemical engineer works on new ways to make silicones
Silicones are a new class of man-made chemi
cals with very unusual properties. Made from 
sand, they assume the form of rubber, grease, 
oil and resin. Under extremes of heat and 
cold, the rubber stays rubbery, the oil oily. 
Silicones added to fabrics make them excep
tionally water-repellent. Silicone makes 
waxes spread easier ... paints almost imper
vious to weather.
One of the men responsible for finding new 
ways to produce silicone products is 26-yearold Frank V. Summers.
FRANK V. SUMMERS joined G.E. in 
1949 after receiving a B.S. in Chemi
cal Engineering at Iowa State Uni
versity the same year. He also grad
uated from G.E.s Process Technology 
program and other specialized courses.
fit the Building Fund of the YMYWCA. Production week is, na
tionally, Young Womens Chris
tian Association Week. Iolanthe 
tickets are on sale at Gimbels, 
Hornes, Wagner Bund, the YM 
and YWCA Residences, and at 
the door, performance nights. 
Prices are $1.95 and $1.65.
lows are going to go home with 
these big gifts in addition to a bag 
full of souvenirs and a good meal 
tucked under their belt. There will 
also be a grand floor show. Who 
could ask for more?
The toastmaster for the evening 
will be Michael J. Gittens, Tech 
E 50, Traffic Engineer for the City 
of Pittsburgh. The main speaker 
at the banquet will be Jack Rob
ins, president of the Regional In
dustrial Development Corporation. 
The topic of his speech will be 
Economic Growth in Western 
Pennsylvania. *
You will want to join your class
mates, friends and school officials 
in this gala affair so be sure and 
purchase a ticket from members 
of the Student Council or from 
Mr. McKelway in AH 162.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
Campus Cleaners
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
- MA 1-0923

---------------------------------------------------

Pag* 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 24, 1954
KfCPAHRT FOR A 
BITTIR POINT AViRACtt
Dont let that "drowsy feel* 
ing cramp your style in class 
... or when youre "hitting 
die books. Take a NoDo? 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
youll be your normal best... 
wide awake . . . alert! Youf 
doctor will tell yoa-^-NoDoj 
Awakeners are safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
S5 tablets 
fc Uamly taNOQOZ
AW A KE NE R5
SIEGMAN BROS.
Formal Wear For Rent
Nothing to Buy, Just Stop In and 
Register to
Win Free A Handsome New 
First Nigh ter9 9 Formal Suit
(Free Parkin? in Rear of Building) 
3520 FIFTH AVENUE
(ACROSS FROM FALK CLINIC)
MUseum 1-8712 - MUseum 2-8712
Evenings By Appointment 
No Forfeit Required
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HE IN CLASS!
Sn S
[Continued from page 1] 
Carolou Fidder, have found that 
theater-in-the-round is more dif
ficult to work with, but more in
teresting dance patterns can be 
developed and utilized. In order 
that the dancers will be visable 
and look good from all angles, 
they will be using patterns com
posed mostly of circles and 
squares.
Since the stage stands only a 
few inches off the floor, and the 
audience will be banked up and 
around it, the chorus and dancers 
must be in kneeling or lowered 
positions in the production num
bers so that the principle players 
can be seen. The dancers must get 
to and from the stage in a black
out between scenes, and it will be 
difficult for them to get their po
sition both on and off stage. Al
so, says Carolou, the creation of 
illusion through the dance num
bers is much more difficult with 
a circular type theater, for the 
same illusion must be created on 
all sides. She stated that re
hearsals have proved rewarding. 
Platform Seating
If anyone happens to go into 
the gym one of these nights, he 
will see a major construction job 
underway. John Leonard, the 
stage manager, and the stage crew 
are in the process of building the 
stage, which they will also have 
to tear down after the show is 
over.
In compliance with the new 
seating arrangement, they are 
building platforms on which the 
chairs will be placed. There will 
be nine rows on each side with 
four aisles which the performers 
and stage crew will use the exit 
and enter the stage. As pointed 
out by John Leonard, the stage 
crew has to be rehearsed as much 
as the actors in order to switch 
the people efficiently and without 
disorder.
Help Needed
The biggest problem facing Mi
chael Pollock as head of costumes 
is lack of manpower. There are 
eight large production numbers re
quiring 25 costumes each, not to 
mention the total number of 27 
numbers in the entire show. As 
pointed out by Mike, the design
er has a big job to do. Due to the 
time and money available, the 
costumes must be basically sim
ple, emphasizing color rather than 
detail. They are to be completed 
by this weeks technicals, in order 
that they can seen under the 
lights.
Since there will be very little 
scenery, the biggest theatrical ef
fect will be achieved through the 
correlation of lights and costumes.
Although much has been said 
about the technical aspects of the 
show, the performers themselves 
must not be forgotten. According 
to John Conboy, the cast is very
competent and very wonderful, es
pecially where rehearsals are con
cerned. Bob Hamilton has stated 
the singers are most co-operative 
and dependable, and catch on to 
the lyrics very quickly. All in all, 
Head Over Heels should prove 
to all to be a very enjoyable and 
entertaining experience,
Notas
[continued from page 4] 
through this weeK there will be L 
technical rehearsals to smooth out 
any section of the show that is still 
a little rough. Ive been over to 
the gym a few nights last week 
observing the songs and dances 
and all I have to say is that it is 
the greatest show yet.
Speaking of S n S, it was really 
something to pass through Baum 
and Craig last Saturday morning 
and see people riding around the 
revolving beer sign. Well, this is 
what some members and the pub
licity staff of S n S were doing; 
they had a big banner announcing 
the show and two very pretty girls 
holding it . . .* * *
The soccer playoffs to take place 
this week promise to be exciting 
due to a tie in first place in the 
Kiltie League between the Phi 
Kaps and whoever wins between 
the ATOs and the Obelisks. The 
first place of the Skibo League is 
occupied by a strong Beta Sig 
team.
Tartan
[Continued from page 1] 
officers for the coming year were 
announced. The editorial duties 
will be allocated to a board of four 
persons, who are: Stephanie
Mackay, managing editor; Bob 
Russell, executive editor; Dick 
Fox and Mar jo King, associate 
editors. The business staff will be 
headed by Martin Ostroff, a jun
ior printer.
It was explained that the edi
torial board was created especi
ally for the situation which ex
ists; that is, the Tartan staff is 
now composed primarily of jun
iors, and if these same people 
were to continue next year in the 
same capacities, there would be 
no underclassmen trained to take 
over at the end of that time.
Managing Editor Position
Since boards of people with 
equal responsibility never func
tion as well as those with one per
son at the head, the position of 
managing editor will be filled by 
Stephanie Mackay, a junior his
tory and English major. Dick Fox, 
a junior metallurgist, and Marjo j 
King, a junior English major, will  
assist Miss Mackay as associate j 
editors. Bob Russell, this years 
editor, will serve in somewhat of 
an advisory capacity as executive 
editor.
Sports editor for 1956-57 will 
be Robert Hoppe, a sophomore 
mechanical engineer. The news
editor will be Ann Forest, a soph
omore math major, and Ed Rog
ers, a sophomore chemist, will 
head the copy staff. The other 
officers are assistant business 
manager, Robert Sorkin; adver
tising manager, Robert Peters; 
circulation manager, Harley Bernbach; and secretary, Joan Seidel.
Thistle Officers 
The Thistle also announced 
their newly elected staff. Jeanie 
Walker, former seniors editor, is 
now editor-in-chief. John Alex
ander is managing editor, Neil 
Bernstein is business manager, 
and Peggy Heath is associate edi
tor., Other officers are: Cissie
Wohler, seniors editors; Jan 
Shoop, copy editor; Bob Garrison, 
I fraternities editor; Joan Weaver, 
sororities editor; Mimi Murrin, 
organizations editor; B. J. Whitmyer, art editor; and Tom Davies, 
advertising manager.
Research
[Continued from page 1] 
lowed to first listen to reports on 
research just completed or still 
going on. Then they discuss the 
research with the people who are 
performing it. They may also refer 
to old reports filed in the libra^*|. 
Topics discussed during previ
ous conferences include: ferromag
netism and non-linear circuits; 
servomechanisms; synthetic or
ganic chemistry; electro-chemis
try in metallurgy; and numerous 
others. These conferences have 
been held periodically since Jan
uary 1951. 
It is the policy of Tech not to 
perform any applied research ex
cept when it is closely related* 
fundamental research. In this W*y 
Tech is adding to the store of 
fundamental knowledge while al
so keeping itself up to date.
Satisfy iburself'with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke 
packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
The more perfectly packed your 
cigarette, the more pleasure it 
gives . . . and Accu-Ray packs 
Chesterfield far more perfectly.
To the touch ... to the taste,
an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis
fies the most... burns more 
evenly, smokes much smoother.
lips
. . . mild yet deeply satisfying to 
the taste  Chesterfield alone is 
pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
elKtzKinaKBr
MILD, YET 
THEY
b TSGuczz * Mm* Tomoco G^tikf
