Merry ChristmasHappy New Year
CFP Formal Dance Band
The Newport Youth Band, shown above, will play at the Annual Council of Fraternity Presidents 
Formal on January 9. This unique group is composedof talented teenagers from the Long Island Area.
Tech All-School 
Debating Team Is 
Very Optimistic
The all-school debating team 
went last week to the fifty-school 
Pitt Tournament to attempt to 
further its fine record.
This important meet is a crossexamination tournament and its 
outcome decides several scholar
ships. Behind the team is its per^T'mance at the Duquefsne Tour
nament held just before Thanks
giving vacation when, losing only 
to Penn State, it felled St. Fran
cis, Allegheny, and Duquesne it
self. This Duke team was the same 
one that participated in a meet 
at Oxford in London last year.
This years varsity team for the 
Debating Unionthe clubs of
ficial nameconsists of John Berg 
and Keith Springen on the affy^native while Terry Murdock 
and freshman Mark Appelbaum 
make up the negative. The novice 
(freshman) team with Lucretia 
Bodin, Chris Hardy, and Marilyn 
Miller holds much promise for 
things to come. Mr. Harold Lee 
and Mr. Ed Trainor of the English 
department coach the team.
President Optimistic
President John Berg, explaining 
the significance of the victories 
ffiw,n^d, stated that even though 
trcre is not nearly the emphasis 
on debate, here as in other tolleges, and although Tech has no 
political science or government 
majors, the team has spoken well 
for itself. It will probably con
tinue to do so in all of the numer
ous trips which will take the team 
to nearly all the local school tour
naments and many of the major 
tournaments in the country, the 
l"^est being the 150-school HarTournament.
Dr. Neustadt To Speak 
In January Lectures
Dr. Richard E. Neustadt will be the guest speaker in the 
next of the Maurice Falk Lecture Series, The American Presdency. Dr. Neustadt will give lectures and seminars on the 
topic The Presidency in the Nineteen Sixties. A past mem
ber of the White House staff, the* ---------------------
Office of Price Administration, I rv T (
and the Bureau of the Budget, ACU' C ^IlcipiCI
Neustadt is familiar with the I ^0(*O111CS FalllCr 
topics relating to the pivotal '  _,
position of the President in legisIt alia II llOV
lation, administration, and polij On November 16, the seventy
tics and very well qualified to brothers of Delta Upsilon Fraspeak on these topics. ternity at Carnegie learned that^  c they had become fathers. OfficialColumbia Professor , ,  .approval came from the FosterAt present, Dr. Neustadt is an , parents Plan. Inc., to the reassistant professor of government quest for the adoption of a child.
at Comlubia University. He re: Alvaro Remeccioni is Carnegie
ceived his A.B. from the UniChapters newest D. U., _ ... . , . . . . s Alvaro lives with his mother inversity of California and both his Umbertide) a hilltop town about
M.A. and PhD. at Hai'vard Unitwenty-five miles from Berugia. 
versity. His teaching career has in central Italy. The chief occuStudent Loans
Students who plan to apply 
for long-term loans for the 
second semester should make 
such application as soon as 
possible in AH 154.
> *  Pre-Payment For Next 
Semester Is Po ssible
To help reduce the amount of time spent by students in 
the registration area, the plan for pre-payment of fees will 
be in effect for the Spring Semester 1959-60. All students may 
participate in the plan except students in the following cate
gories:
1. Students who will be carry
ing 24 units or less.
2. Junior and senior painting 
and design students.
Those students who are not ex
cluded and who wish to partici
pate in the plan wil* proceed as 
follows:
At any time during the period 
of January 13 through January 
26, students may stop at the Reg
istrars Office and make their pay
ments. However, it must be un
derstood that for dormitory stu
dents, the dormitory fee must be 
paid at the same time. It also 
should be understood that all stu
dents, whether participating or 
not, must appear at the registra
tion area the same as always to 
complete schedules and fill out 
IBM forms, but the students who 
have prepaid their fees will not 
be required to go to the cashiev in 
the Gym.
been further extended by a posi
tion in 1957 as visiting assistant 
professor of politics at Princeton.
Besides an active role being 
played in government legislation 
and collegiate education, Dr. Neu
stadt is also noted for several 
articles written on the role of the 
President. His first book, Presi
dential Power, The Politics of 
Leadership, is scheduled for pub
lication this coming May.
Dr. Neustadt will give his lec
tures on Tuesday, Wednesday, and 
Thursday, January 5, 6, and 7 at 
11:30 a.m. in GSIA Auditorium. 
Seminars will be held in 246 A, 
AH. at 2:30 following each lec
ture.
I pation of the inhabitants is farm? 
| mg. Alvaro's father died in 1957 
I after he contracted tuberculosis 
i while a prisoner of war in Kenya.
: After her husbands death the 
| widow went to live wit . her fa! ther-in-law. However the boys 
! grandfather died in August of 
j 1959, and now this small family 
: must find another place to live 
Both mother and son are in poor 
health, but fortunately they re
ceive free medical care.
Dr. Herman To
SpeakTonight
Tonight Dr. Philip Herman will 
speak on the "advanced mathemati
cal techniques which are used in 
the steel industry. Dr. Herman is 
the supervisor of applied mathe
matics at Jones & Laughlin Steel, 
where he has employed many of 
the new mathematical techniques 
which have just recently been de
veloped to the point of applicabil
ity.
Dr. Herman received his B.S. 
from the Coast Guard Academy 
in 1943, and after some time on 
active duty in the Coast Guard 
during the war, attended Case 
where he received his M.S. Later 
he also obtained an M.S. in man
agement administration from 
Western Reserve.
The discussion will begin at 
8 p.m. in the GSIA auditorium 
and is being jointly sponsored by 
the Industrial Management So
ciety and Pi Mu Epsilon.
Newport Youth Band Chosen 
Music For Annual CFP Formal
The annual Council of Fraternity Presidents Formal 
be held this year on January 9 at Syria Mosque.
Musi for the dance is to be provided by a very unique 
and talented group, the Newport Youth Band. Organized by
the Newport Jazz Festival, a non-4-----------------------------------------
profit organization devoted to 
furthering jazz as a popularas a
American artform, the Youth 
Band plays excellent dance, jazz 
and Latin music. It is composed of 
21 teenage musicians from among 
600 musicians who auditioned for 
the band. Under the direction of 
Marshall Brown, this band has 
shown its skill and talent by be
ing asked to appear with Lionel 
Hampton and Carmen McRae in 
a Carnegie Music Hall concert, in 
the Newport Jazz Banquet before 
President Eisenhower in Wash
ington.
Further entertainment for the 
dancing is being provided by the 
Vi Counts during the band inter
mission. The Vi Counts are a trio 
of Angers who specialize in folk 
songs and other such entertain
ment. They will be supported in 
their singing by a four-piece jazz 
combo.
The CFP Forjnal again promises 
to be an enjoyable and entertain
ing event.
Student Congress 
Still Debating 
Carnival Plans
Student Congress debates over 
Spring Carnival have centered 
around the following major argu
ments: Carnival is too time con
suming, too expensive, and that 
independents do not derive much 
enjoyment from the weekend.
During the last Student Con
gress Meeting, December 9, there 
were finally some suggestions as 
to what could be done about Car
nival. These suggestions were; 
that booths be limited in size, 
amount spent, and a limit of judg
ing points, that there be some 
place for commuters, Scotch n 
Soda be presented the weekend 
before Carnival, no sorority pre
sentations at the dorms or houses, 
the Kingston Trio will not appear.
[continued on page 2]
HandeFs Messiah 
Tonight 9-10 
On WRCT
Although underdeveloped phys
ically for his age, Alvaro is a hap
py, active child with brown hair 
and brown eyes. He likes to play 
soccer and in his spare time also 
enjoys drawing and reading. He is 
in the fourth grade of primary 
school and has shown definite 
promise of art talent. At present 
Alvaro thinks he would like to 
become a mechanic.
Delta Upsilon sends money to 
the F.B.P.I. and they, in turn, use 
it to send the child to school. This 
money pays for the childs books 
and supplies food and spending 
money. Alvaros eleventh birth
day is next February 9, and the 
brothers are already planning to 
make it one of the most memora
ble days in his life and certainly 
the biggest birthday he has ever 
had. We certainly hope that this 
will make Alvaro happier and as
sure him of a brighter and more 
secure future.
Essay Contest
The year-end holidays may 
be the perfect time to pick up 
an idea, collect some informa
tion, or think a problem out 
aloud with friends, that will 
pay cash dividends in the Es
say Contest later. Information 
sheets are still available on 
bulletin boards and at A.H. 
132-A.
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53  NUMBER 11 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1959

---------------------------------------------------

Page Z  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 16, 1959
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING 
"wemTome"] *0* FORBES AVE. (near Craig St.) 
students I MUseum 1-1288
Congress[continued from page I] 
Jan Chaiken, chairman of Stu
dent Congress, announced that the 
first meeting of the Pittsburgh In
tercollegiate Council was held and 
that the president is Jan Chaiken; 
the vice president is Jan Notopoulos, and the secretary-treasurer is a Duquesne student.
Mike Alfreds Chosen 
New S n S Director
There are proud smiles on the faces of S n S Club mem
bers this week, and they do have something to be proud of. 
Last week the director for this years production was 
chosen. Mike Alfreds is his name, and the best S nS show
yet is his goal. With his colorful*
background and wide experience, Mike is bound to attain that goalf
CoJ Of OL ItU
Ruth Kibler
Sophomore Painting and Design
Bashein
too.
Mike, a senior directing major, 
came to the United States from 
London five years ago. He now 
lives in Los Angeles, California. 
Before coming to Tech, Mike 
worked for two years in the pub
licity department of MGM studios. 
During this time he met many en
tertainment people, saw movies 
being made, and gained much ex
perience for his career as a di
rector. Mike also spent six months 
in New York studying directing at 
the American Theatre Wing be
fore coming to Tech.
Musical Revue
Mike hps had a lot of experi
ence with S n S, for he has writ
ten lyrics for the last two pro
ductions. He has a wealth of new, 
enthuiastic ideas for this years 
show too. It will be a bright, 
happy, musical revue, full of pep 
and spontaneity. He believes, 
however, that the show can be 
better than ever without making 
it too elaborate and without spend
ing so much money as has been 
spent in previous years. He feels 
that the outcome of the show de
pends more on the talent and the 
material than it does on the timeconsuming physical production of 
it. Mike also believes that each 
student connected with the pro
duction should do only what he 
does best; thats what causes most 
of the confusion in the production. 
People have been doing things for 
which they have Jittle talent or 
ability. This year, Mike says, 
there will be more organization. 
A handful of people should not 
have to do all of the work. In
stead, S n S needs more people 
who are wiljing to do their job 
well.
20th CENTURY ROMANCE 378-379 
Techniques in handling women 
No academic credit, but who cares 
Professor Romeo M.
The effects of well-groomed hair on romantic 
success in the mid-twentieth century. Labora
tory demonstration of 'Vaseline Hair Tonic, 
its effect on hair and women. Disastrous action 
of HtO on hair. Salutary effect of H20 plus 
Vaseline Hair Tonic on hair. Term Paper: 
Unfavorable reaction of females to males use 
of alcohol tonics and hair creams (Stikkywigs 
Law of Diminishing Returns). Students taking 
this course are advised to stock up on 'Vaseline1 
Hair Tonic and keep week ends open.
Materials: me 4 cz. bottle Vaulint* Hair Tonicits clear, 
it's clean, 
its
Vaseline8
HAIR TONIC
On Campuswith
MsxShukan
(Author of I TFos a Teen-age Dwarf The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
DECK THE HALLS
  vWhen you think of Christmas gifts you naturally think of 
Marlboro cigarettes, leading seller in flip-top box in all fifty 
statesand if we annex Wales, in all fifty-oneand if we annex 
Lapland, in all fifty-two. (This talk about annexing Wales and 
Lapland is, incidentally, not just idle speculation. Great Britain 
wants to trade Wales to the United States for a desert. Great 
Britain needs a desert desperately on account of the tourist 
trade. Tourists are always coming up to the Prime Minister or 
the Lord Privy Seal, or the Thane of Glamis, or like that and 
saying, Im not knocking your country, mind you. Its very 
quaint and picturesque, ete., what with Buckingham Palace and 
Bovril and Scotland Yard, etc., but wheres your desert?
Before I forget, let me point out that Scotland Yard, Britains 
plain-clothes police branch, was named after Wally Scotland and 
Fred Yard who invented plain clothes. The American plain
clothes force is called the F.B.I. after Frank B. Inchcliff, who 
invented fingerprints. Before Mr. Inchcliffs invention, every
bodys fingers were absolutely glassy smooth. This, as you may 
imagine, played hob with the identification of newborn babies 
in hospitals. From 1791 until 1904 no American parent ever 
brought home the right baby from the hospital.' This later be
came known as the Black Tom Explosion.
(But I digress. England, I was saying, wants to trade Wales 
for a desert. Sweden wants to trade Lapland for Frank B. 
Inchcliff. Hie reason is that Swedes to this day still dont have 
fingerprints. As a result, identification of babies in Swedish 
hospitals is so haphazard that Swedes flatly refuse to bring 
their babies home. There are, at present, nearly a half-billion 
unclaimed babies in Swedish hospitalssome of them well over 
eighty years old.) 
But I digress. Marlboro is, of course, an ideal Christmas gift 
for your friends and'loved ones who enjoy filter cigarettes. If, 
on the other hand, your friends and loved ones like mildness 
but dont like filters, then you cant go wrong with a carton of 
Philip Morris. If-your friends and loved ones like a subtly 
mentholated cigarette that combines refreshing taste with high 
filtration, then buy a carton of Alpines. (Alpines, incidentally, 
are named after the late Albert G. Pine. A1 Pine worked all his 
life to invent a cigarette that would combine light menthol and 
high filtration, but alas he never succeeded. As by-products of 
his research he did manage to invent the atom, the gooseneck 
lamp and the cocker spaniel, but the lightly mentholated high 
filtration cigarette, alas, never. Now this dream is realized, 
and what could be more fitting than to pay tribute to this gal
lant man by calling this cigarette Alpine?)  un Th
 * 
We, the makers of Marlboro, Philip Morris and Alpine are 
now enjoying our sixth year with Max Shulman. Obviously, 
we t/Hnk he is a funny fellow. We think you'll think so too, 
if you look at his television series THE MANY LOVES 
OF DOBIE GILLISand read his latest bookt I WAS A 
TEENACE DWARF/*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 16. 1959  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Use Your Talents 
To Earn Money 
In Write Contest
With the advent of the Christ
mas holidays approaching, all of 
us are looking forward to a re
laxing period away from the 
books for sixteen days, a reunion 
with our family and friends for 
the holidays, and some free time 
(for a change) on our hands.
With this two week interim, 
those of us with a literary bent 
may also be offered the oppor
tunity of using our talents to earn 
some money through writing an 
entry for the WRITE contest, 
which is now in its third month.
The WRITE contest is open to 
all Tech students and has five 
divisions (Scot, Tartan, Technical, 
Thistle, and WRCT , each offering 
a twenty-five dollar prize, plus 
an additional fifteen dollar prize 
for the best entry received from 
a freshmana total of $140 in 
prizes in all to be given away 
by PiDE.
The contest is simple to enter 
and it may require only a few 
hours to earn a substantial prize. 
Copies of the rules are available 
in Dean Strick's office, Morewood 
Desk, or at the SAE house, so take 
a few hours over the vacation to 
try and earn yourself twenty-five 
dollars oi1 more.
Six Novelists Published 
By English Department
BULLETIN BO-ARD
The English department of by six members of the English 
Tech has just published its annual department.
volume of lectures in the College Publication is made possible by 
Series in English. This years a grant from the Wherrett Membook is entitled Six Novelists orial Fund of the Pittsburgh 
and is composed of lectures on Foundation. Six Novelists, can 
Stendhal, Dostoevski, Tolstoy, now be purchased in the bookHardy, Dreiser, and Proust givers store.
Stereo Contest 
fy\On Friday, December 11, Kappa 
Sigma won the month-long Marl
boro Brand Roundup Contest by 
saving more wrappers of Marl
boro, Philip Morris, Parliament 
and Alpine cigarettes than any 
other student group. They will be 
awarded a stereo radio phono
graph console as the prize.
Philip Morris Inc. wishes tof
ngratulate the winner and also 
thank all the students who 
participated in the contest.
A Phi O
Alpha Phi Omega will hold its 
annual Christmas party Thursday, 
December 17, from 7 to 10:30 p.m. 
in the living room of the Carnegie 
Union. At the party toys and 
games will be wrapped and then 
delivered to the Childrens Hos
pital in Oakland. Refreshments 
will be served; there will be danc
ing on the sun porch.
Citcom Clan
A New Years present from Citcon Clan and the Dorm League 
will be in the form of a Square 
Dance the week-end after vaca
tion. The night of January 9 at 
8:30 in Thistle Hall the two or
ganizations will get together for 
the event. Refreshments will be 
furnished.
The caller will be Otto Hoking. 
Everybody is welcome.
And so until the Clan next 
meets again, Merry Christmas and 
a Happy New Year to all.
IMS
Dr. Philip Herman, supervisor 
of applied mathematics of Jones 
& Laughlin Steel, will discuss ad
vanced mathematics in the steel 
industry at a joint meeting of the 
Industrial Management Society 
Knd Pi Mu Epsilon, national math
ematics honorary, tonight at 8:00 
p.m. in theGSIA auditorium. In
terested persons are invited to at
tend.
Needs No Rules
Tech Invited 
To Quiz IJSAF
Your United States Air Force 
representative has made, arrange
ments to be on our campus on 
January 6 between the hours of 
nine oclock and three' oclock to 
acquaint personnel with direct ap
pointments, officer training courses 
and the aviation cadet program.
Your local Air Force represen
tative has extended to you an in
vitation to open a discussion or ask 
any questions pertaining to op
portunities for you in the United 
States Air Force. Brochures will 
be available at Administration 
Hall (Front Lobby), at the same 
time your questions may be sub
mitted.
The goal of the USAF in officer 
procurement is to insure that all 
officers^are selected on a best 
qualified basis. To reach this 
jT'oal, it is the duty of recruiting 
Service to attempt to familiarize 
as many eligible young men and 
women as possible with the USAF 
officer programs available to them 
and the opportunities and bene
fits of these programs.
ivi ESTERI*
ARIZONA STATE 57
Carlyle Frund majored in Math; now 
studies Engineering at Pitt under his com
panys Tuition Refund Program. Carl, who 
sandwiches his college work in with his 
job, is enthusiastic about his opportunities 
for professional development.
OHIO . 58
Attractive Lee 
Kindle tries out a 
new recipe in her 
companys Test 
Kitchen. A Home 
Service represen
tative, she enjoys 
daily contact with 
schools, womens 
groups, and house
wives. Lee likes 
the security of an 
electric company 
career.
124 Oakland Ave
Mu 2-7310
'In Heart of Oakland1
Blue and Black 
Tuxedos 
Whit Dinner Jackets
Student Discount
University Travel 
Service
domestic or Foreign Points
Arrangements made for 
Individuals or Groups to
Charters for Special 
Events also Available
MA. 1-3500 x 7205-6 
MA. 1-5915
In Bldg. E, Schenley Apts.
What do you look for in your career? Professional development? A chance to work 
with top men in your field? Job security? The enjoyment of outdoor living? Better 
talk with the electric company interviewer when he visits your campus. Or write to 
Pennsylvania Electric Association, State Street Building, Harrisburg, Pa.
i
l /-Ml
IPennsylvania Electric Association
21 INDEPENDENT COMPANIES PROVIDING POWER FOR PENNSYLVANIA'S PROGRESS

---------------------------------------------------

Pmtt 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 6, 1959
editorial
Censorsh ip
When representatives from student publications and school officials meet or are seen 
together, certain members of the student body, especially those who seem to believe noth
ing but rumors, cry of censorship and restriction. These people go into long orations and 
impassioned cries about student freedom, freedom of the press and the other colorful cliches 
that are so commonly used in this area.  .__
Surprisingly enough these individuals who seem most concerned and cramped are 
not those associated with Tech publications. Furthermore, they fail to believe those who are 
associated, that the school is not using, nor is attempting to install a system of censorship.
Student Attitude
Certain students maintain the attitude that if campus publications are not constantly 
tearing down and criticizing the school and its administration, that a rigid policy of censorthip must be in effect. It seems to them necessary to constantly disagree with the school 
even if it is only to display student prowess. The policy of Carnegie Tech toward student 
publications is a fair and realistic one, giving to students the responsibility of deciding the 
content of student publications.
The fact remains that students and the administration can get together and discuss 
the problems that face publications without censorship being the issue at stake. In fact, 
only last Saturday a very successful meeting of this type was held. This meeting, spon
sored by Pi Delta Epsilon, was attended by two representatives from each publication and 
by officials of the administration. Not one party involved felt that the meeting was any
thing but a great benefit to all.
Whether one approves or not, publications are a definite part of Tech and its stu
dents and they consequently have a great influence upon their thinking. The meeting was 
indicative of the fact that the administration is interested in a positive manner in campus 
publications. Such an interest is of clearcut benefit to all involved. Those who warp this 
interest into an attempt at censorship are far from the truth indeed.
Points to Ponder M -
wplftty^-   // 
Mount Mercy is glad that it is back on a. once a week, attendance required assembly 
chedule. It seems that the students felt that last years plan of two required assemblies 
per week was too much. Sure is different at Tedii!  S - -
Pitt ha| recently adopted a new student governnrient plan in view of its recent switch 
to the trimester plan. The constitution of thisgolrernment i^r remarkably similar to our Fed
eral Constitution. Is the White House to be the next addition to the skyscraper campus?
 - itsclit -- - 'X-. . r.V
An even neater situation that has arisen since the adoption of the trimester system at 
Pitt is one concerning finals. Seems the planners couldnt find room for them in the whirl
wind schedule. Some fun! J.D.S.
itstcl ecart,,, '
Scotch u Soda Replies
To the Editor, the Tartan:
Because Scotch n Soda is not a neatly subsidized student activity, and must produce 
a product acceptable to the student body which will insure its future operation, we regret 
that the Tartan has given us some fairly misleading and possibly damaging publicity.
A single organization under Student CDngress cannot be compared in editorial critcism with a less controlled, less#.-------------...........  *----------------------------------------------------
personal college weekend activity, j 
Scotch n Soda is not community] 
property, though it must give and 
take with the community spirit. 
Further, the club does not exist 
merely to entertain the campus,  
for its most rewarding purpose is | 
lo provide an outlet for the most! 
creative students at Tech  bar. 
none.
Scotch n Soda has not grown 
in size through the years. Actualj 
ly, the number of students parti-' 
cipating has gradually decreased j 
since the club was founded. Prior 
to 1955, the average number of 
.vtudents participating on the stage 
was in the seventies. Last years 
performers numbered 32. This fact 
has not, however, had an ad
verse effect on club spirit or the 
quality of the productions, as the 
alumni and faculty will testify.
Spirit
We have been criticized for our 
participation in Homecoming. We 
volunteered to organize a halitime 
oresentation as a willing service 
to the Homecoming Committee. 
With our display, we felt it was 
necessary to place our name befor the new student group, after 
the disappointment of the Activi
ties Fair. The cpst to our organi
zation amounted to no more than 
$50.00, including the display: an 
example in economy to other or
ganizations. Most important, we
also feel that Scotch n Soda has' 
a spirit which cannot and should 
not remain stagnant unty spring. 
The editorial of last week also 
questions our future policy for 
Spring Carnival. We need hardly 
state that carnival activity, which 
requires construction of any sort, 
is quite out of the question in 
view of the ultimate presentation 
of our yearly production.
If the editor has seen our bud
get, he has seen more than the 
club has, for the budget has not 
been released yet. In terms of 
huge sums spent, -the club esti
mates its budget on the basis of 
previous audience attendance, 
which,  unlike the commercial 
theatre possibly more familiar to 
the editor, remains a predictable 
and somewhat constant percent
age of the student body. It is in
teresting to point out that since 
1905, the club has hacT only one 
financial failure. Moreover, pro
fits from our productions have 
been used for Scotch n Soda 
scholarships, or have reverted to 
the Student Congress fund.
Average Time
The average time spent per in
dividual in the few months of 
preparation is appreciably less 
than the amount of time spent 
working for student publications 
and other organizations which enj velop the entire school year, 
i Those conscientious students who
CURTAIN GOING UP!
?
foj George B. Spelvin
V
Only In America
As Carnegie Tech hastily approaches the year 1984, in 
both physical construction and attitude, the Scotch n Soda
club stands as one of the we remaining fortresses of stu
dent freedom, youthfulness, inventiveness, and worthwhile
achievement. ?------------------------L------------~
and welcome experience in mu-^ 
sical comecty, and a realistic at
titude toward theatrical business 
operation. To non-dramats, the 
club provides a broader profes
sional outlook, to the extent that 
each year one can find several 
members, who through club ex
perience, make highly significant 
changes in their professional 
goals. In fact, some have changec^ 
their goals entirely. Scotch n 
Soda is also an emotional experi
ence: a sincere bond of friend
ship seldon witnessed by CITs 
notorious slide-rule hipsters. 
Those 'who have savored. Scotch 
n Soda are, as a result, the most 
spirited group on this campus.
have worked with Scotch n Soda 
will testify that they became in
creasingly aware of their aca
demic responsibilities and con
centrate on maximum efficiency 
in the organization of their time. 
A clear, statistical look at the 
scholastic averages of Scotch n 
Soda members will prove that 
those students do not have lower 
spring factors, as is so often ru
mored. The two club members 
who could not return to Tech this 
year would be the first to admit 
that S n S was not the cause of 
their academic failures. It is, in 
fact, true that our organization is 
composed of a majority of high 
factor students who need a cre
ative outlet beyond the scope df 
artificial classroom projects. This 
is the real Carnegie Plan in 
action.
We state our real goals with 
real and conscientious foresight. 
We never attempt to produce a 
Broadway Play. To the con
trary, we produce a spirited col
lege musical. It is true, however, 
that the. name of Scotch n Soda 
has been favorably associated 
with our college far beyond the 
borders of Pittsburgh. But fame 
for Tech is incidental. The bene
fits are for the participants.
Don Beaman
Bill Pence -
A careful look will reveal that 
the club is a smoothly run thea
trical business operation. _ Scotch 
n Soda carefully plans and ex
ecutes a limited budget, and as
sumes responsibility for the 
money with which it is entrusted. 
Maticulously watched by the ten 
students who compose the Scotch 
n Soda Executive Board, the 
schools investment in free enter
prise pays off, for unlike many 
risky theatrical ventures, Scotch 
n Soda can safely count on a fix
ed percentage of student attend
ance yearly. Since 1905, the club 
has profited financially every year 
but one (1958), and the profits 
are each year turned in to the 
school, or divided in the form of 
Scotch n Soda scholarships. Many 
of Techs most noted alums (i.e. 
Alex Segal, Bob Finkel, Dave 
Crantz. etc.) have substantially 
benefitted from such financial as
sistance. .
Organization
As a business function, Scotch 
n Soda has one Of the fiiinest at
titudes toward internal public re
lations, of all the college clubs in 
the country. Clear-cut delegation 
of'authority and management ef
ficiency can be witnessed in the 
clubs comprehensive organization 
chart. Admission to the club is 
selective, and is determined by 
ones interest and grade average. 
Auditions and training sessions 
establish member interest, and 
selective placement by factor 
(with the help of the drama de
partment) is decided by the ex
ecutive board and the shows di
rector. It is not out of place to 
not here that Scotch n Soda has 
a majority of the high-factor peo
ple on this campus.
Beneath the surface of club 
activity, behind the scenes, Scotch 
n Soda is the undisputed cham
pion of member loyalty. Here is a 
practical application of the Car
negie Plan: a massive, co-opera
tive/ creative student effort that 
is not a bogus classroom project 
or a make-believe student en
deavor. Scotch n Soda is truly a 
creative diversion, but it is more 
than diversion to those partici
pating. To dramats, it offers new
e Quality Productions
Even though the size of the 
club and show has decreased , 
steadily through the years, the 
quality of the productions hat 
improved.- If Carnegie Tech can
not boast of the reputation of its 
student publications or other student endeavors, it can eagerly 
point to Scotch n Soda as Amer
icas outstanding collegiate mu
sical. (Variety magazine) Any
one who has seen the more wider 
ly known college musicals, name
ly Princeton Tiangle, Harvard 
Hasty Pudding, or Penn StaUjS 
Masque and Wig; could easily re
cognize that Scotch n Soda is 
better than any of these. Scotch 
n Soda is to college musical what 
Ingmar Bergman is to cinema  
what Arthur Miller is to theatre.
The true value of Scotch n 
Soda, however, lies not in its re
putation, but in the satisfaction of . 
its members; who, on the closing 
night of the spring production  
leave the threatre with more 
tears in their eyes than. are seen 
at any Tech graduation proces
sional. Here 1s a healthful, wellrounded attitude that lingers in 
a closely tied alumni, alumni who 
have quickly admitted that 
Scotch n Soda is the best of 
Tech, and who are still humming 
the show* tunes of their produc
tion long after refrains of Dear 
Old Tech have faded into obli*.( 
vion. / *
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE' INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU, 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays anu 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Kdilor ............................................................................................ Xeremiah D. Sullivan
Associate Editor ............................................... .................................. Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager  ................ .......... ..........  Lee Adlesberf
New* Editor ............... ........................... ................................. Jan Notopoolo*
Assistant New Editor..................................................................................... Phil Jamei
Sport* Editor  .............................................. .................... ............Chuck Vodvarka
Cop; Editor ....................................................................................... Mary Ana Melton
layout Editor ................................................................................................... -lint Whales
Assistant Business Manager  Mike Balsam, Advertising Mat Jf 
ager  Miles Holander, Secretary  Audrey Dolan, Circulation Man
ager  Bob Miller, Transportation  Bob Gregory.
News StaffSally Ganong, George Logan, Maxine Brown, ince 
Freund, Bob Nowak, Cindy Scott, Carla Blank, Andrea Nether, 
Janice Engeman, June Helmers, Bette Chapman, Pat Murray.
Circulation StaffBill Russell, Pete Kost.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by Nations) Advertising, Ine.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 16, 1959  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
C DL WoJern Scene
PEACE
By David Stock
Peace on earth, good will toward menthese words 
are on everyones lips at this season of the year. But, as is 
th^ 'ate of so many words of wisdom, they are doomed to 
mere lip service; they have not yet found their way from 
the mouths to the hearts of men.4----------------------------------------------------
We live in an era in whieh peace ; 
is ho longer a luxury; it is now as 
much a necessity of life as food 
and shelter. At no time in his
tory have men talked more of 
peace!, but words alone will not 
stay the weapons of destruction.
T president goes on what isI
 billed its a peace tour; he is hail
ed by the world for his fine words 
about peace. But Is anything act! 
ually done to prevent war? We ' 
talk of peace m one breath and 
in the very next we profliise in
creased armaments to Pakistan 
and warn India not to trust Red 
China. We talk of disarmament 
while testing newer and more 
deadly weapons. Hunger is obviI ou>~ a problem closely connected 
I wifti war, so we declare war on 
I hunger. Have we no better words 
I to use? Have we been so condi
tioned by four decades of milit
arism: that we even talk of peace 
jn terms of war?
ToleranceI
 We loudly boast that we are 
tolerant of other beliefs and ways 
of life, yet we denounce the 
Communists as atheists and ma?;ij;lists while trying to promote 
friendship between our countries. 
Is this an example of American 
good will? Too many of us, and 
many of our leaders, seem con
vinced that money and arma-I
ments will buy anything; friend
ship of other countries, respect 
of the world, even peace. But we 
must soon realize that in doing'so 
we are playing right into the 
hands of the Communists by be
ing even more materialistic than 
I th. We still think that we canI not be wrong, we cannot lose, that 
I God is on our side, because we
believe and the Russians do not. 
Do the non-Christian nations of 
the world take this attitude to be 
that of men of good will?
Love
It is not only on an 
tional level that the ideas of 
and goodwill seem to have been 
mislaid. Are the unions and man
agement displaying good will 
when they allow the economy to 
come grinding to a halt over 
differences? What about fixed 
| quiz shows, false advertisements, 
and exhorbitant prices on drugs? 
We try to convince ourselves 
good will towards our fellows 
consist of some change dropped in 
the Salvation Armys collection, 
rather than of being kind to 
other every day. When did 
last do someone the smallest fa
vor? When were you last cour
teous with your automobile? 
When did you last cheer up some* 
one who was feeling bad, praise 
someone for doing something 
well, or forgive someone for 
wronging you?
Christ said, Love one another 
as I have loved you, not only 
for Christians, or for Caucasians, 
or for Union members, or for 
Americans, or for Republicans, 
but for all men. Only when we 
learn to use those words of two 
thousand years ago and morei 
when we apply them to Chris
tians, Jews, Buddhists, Moham
medans, atheists, and the rest, to 
Communists, liberals, ^ Negroes, 
Germans, and all those who seem 
to differ from us in one trivial 
| way or another, only then will 
we truly have peace on earth and 
! good will toward all men.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. A-V 
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
Please send me details on my opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U.S. Ale 
Force. I am a U.S. citiaen, between the ages of 19 and 26^i and a resident of lb 
U.S. or possessions. I am interested in ? Pilot ? Navigator training.
\Kam---------------------------------------------------CUf-____:-. , -
St**----------------------- ---------------- ----------- -------------- 
Cify - ----------------------1 - t Ztj*t
errij (Christmas 
and 
*Vlew 'Ljea r
THE TARTAN
The best tobacco makes the best smoke!
", R. i. Reynold* Tobacco Co., Wiiuton-Salcm, N. C.
THERES AN IMPORTANT FUTURE AHEAD FOR THE MEN 
WHO WEAR THESE WING
The Air Force pilot or navigator is a man of many talento. He is, first of all, 
a master of the skiesand no finer exists. In addition, he has a firm back
ground in astro-navigation, electronics, engineering and allied fields. Then, 
too, he must show outstanding qualities of leadership, initiative and selfreliance. In short, he is a man eminently prepared for an important future 
in the new Age of Space. Find out today if you can qualify as an Air Force 
pilot or navigator. Paste the attached coupon on a postal card and mail it now.
GRADUATE THEN FLY
tl.S.'AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM
JUST A REMINDER . . .
Goldenfeld s Market
IS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OP 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Meats
At 414 S. Craig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELD, Prop.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 16, 1955
DUAL FILTER
HaIINEGI&^i/ . f)
W ft If Si # Jb/
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute 6f Technology 
Editors.................................. Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
Dennis DeStephano: 
Gymkhana Enthusiast
A most active and popular member of Evening Student 
Council, Dennis DeStefano, graduated from Peabody High 
School in 1957. His first assignment with Council was Plaid 
Editor, which service he performed in 1958. This year he is
I ZZ Z ^serving as an officer, having beenEvening Student 
Council Plans New 
Social, Smokers
Plans are currently being made 
for the next social sponsored by 
Evening Student Council, which 
will be a round and square dance 
on Saturday evening, February 20, 
at Thistle Hall.
The mens smoker originally in
cluded in the social calendar for 
February 27 has been cancelled. 
Jim M or r isard is chairman of the 
Evening Students banquet and 
dance to be held on May 7, at 
Colonial Manor. This will be the 
last social event for the 1959- 
1960 school term.
The Mona Lisa Dinner Dance 
held November 28, was a social 
success and in spite of bad weath
er conditions, approximately 100 
people were present. John Acker
man and Shirley Kreidwise are to 
be congratulated for their fine 
work in making this party so suc
cessful.
elected treasurer for 1959.
While working at Dravo Cor
poration as an Engineering Clerk 
he started attending night school 
at Carnegie Tech in the summer 
of --L958. Since then has been 
taking general subjects helpful to 
his engineering work assignments 
and to a goal he has set for him
self to become a mechanical en
gineer. Recently he \ras promoted 
to engineering drawing work and 
enjoys his numerous assign
ments.
Many Interests
Dennis has .many interests and, 
hobbies including playing the 
organ. However, he is an ayid 
sport car rally; participant. While 
in high school he won third place 
in a Teen Ag^gRodep driving a 
1957 PlymcH^eand-iU&i^ 23, this year^tfon 
navigator in a sport car 
(timed races ferfornft)ed ofcV-a 
closed course.) These activities 
and interests absorb a portion of 
apparently limitless energy pos
sessed by Dennis.f
Lucky girl!
Nert time one of her dates bring up the SchleswigHolstein question, shell really be ready for him. 
Ready for that test tomorrow, too ... if that bottle of 
Coke keeps her as alert tonight as it does other people.
Bottled under outhorlty of 
The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKES STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. B7S8 Central At. HI 1-70U
Insignia Awards Point Schedule^
Each year Evening Student 
Council presents insignia awards 
to evening students who have 
earned twenty points for extra
curricular activities. All evening 
students attending Carnegie Tech 
are eligible for this award by par
ticipating in council functions. 
Points may be earned as follows:
Points 
Each
Evening Student Council 
Dances
Pre-dance decorating - Dance 
- clean-up2 points each 6 
Tickets for Council Dances 
only
Maximum points to count 
toward Insignia10 points
each dance ....................... Vfe
Engineers Banquet (Evening
Studentts Banquet)
Afternoon - evening2 pts.
each .............<...................... 4
Letters soliciting souvenirs 
for Everting Students Ban
quet
Maximum points to count to
ward Insignia10............ V\
Thank you letters for Even
ing Students Banquet 
Donors
Maximum points to count to
ward Insignia10............ *4
Tea and Smoker3 points
each ............... 3
Plaid Distribution
V\ point for pick-up or de
livery per evening 
Maximum points toward In
signia8 ............................. V\
Plaid WorkArticles up to 
150 words............................
Typing articles200-250
words ................................... 1
Typing articles250 words 
and up ................................ 2
Council MembersCouncil Meet
ing attendance.
15 pts. credit toward Insignia for 
100% attendance.
10 pts. credit toward Insigni^Oor 
75% attendance.
There are other miscellaneous 
activities in which students may 
participate to earn points. Awards 
are made in the fall at the annual 
Insignia Award Banquet spon
sored by Council. If a student does 
not earn enough points in one year 
for an insignia, one-half of these 
points are applicable to an award 
the following year.___________^
DUAL FILTER DOES IT!
Tareyton
Filters as no single filter can...
for mild, full flavor!
Heres how the Dual Filter does it:
1 It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL...defi
nitely proved to make the smoke of a cigarette mild and,smooth...
2. with an efficient pure white outer filter. Together theyjbring you the 
best of the best tobaccosthe mildness and taste thatpay off in pleasure!
NEWDUAL FILTER
tfodu of <J& Jv&tccois eur middle turn ( ^ t

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 16, 1959  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Carnegie Tartan
Volleyball
Playoffs After
Vacation
BB Team
Has 4-1
Record
Teams Still Bowling 
At A Record Pace
With the third week of bowling past it is evident that 
CIT bowlers are at their best this year. Both team and in
dividual averages are reaching new highs. In the Strikes 
league last week, SN A continued its winning ways by 
downing a spunky Obelisk B team 4-0. SAE P moved 
io a tie with the Delts for second place by smashing Print
ing Management. The SAEs, behind the stellar bowling of 
Dave Harvey, rolled the high total of the year with a 2489. 
Harvey took high series honors with a 599 and boosted his 
average to 192.8. This team continues to pace the school with 
game average of 803 pins. The Delts who were red hot 
at the beginning of the season showed poor form as they split 
with KS. The only bright spot of the day for the Delts was 
Scotts 545 Series.
the Spares league the Sat-*----------------------------------------------------
urday Bachelors had little trouble 
with SAE G taking all four 
points. Likewise, BSR walked 
away from DU, as Aaron paced 
them with a 520 series. SN B 
finally made the win column by 
taking four points from a weak 
Metals Club team.
The game of the week was 
|ped in the Splits league as a 
strong PKT team took two points 
from last years champs, Obelisk 
A. The Phi Kaps, led by Pel
legrino with a 598 series, were 
more than the Obelisks had bar
gained for. Rabatin and Carmichel rolled 557 and 534 respec
tively, but the rest of the team 
rolled poorly as Obelisk met its 
tejj defeat of the year. ATO 
bowled well but had no compettition from the SAE Lions as 
they took all four points. At pres
ent ATOs tied with Obelisk for 
first place. Also in the Splits 
league TDP won over Newman 
Club 3-1. Standings:
STRIKES
SCOTT (DTD) 
RABATIN (OB.) 
MARIK (S.B.) 
SWISHER (S.B.) 
AARON (BSR)
165.3
165.3 
165.2 
163.6 
1531
IM Hilites
The IM Board last week decid
ed to place eight teams in the 
bowling play-offs rather than six. 
Besides the top two teams from 
each of the three leagues making 
the play-offs, the two teams, out 
of the remaining 13, who have the 
highest team game-average will 
also enter the play-offs.
The Duquesne intramural foot
ball champs, Beta Pi, decided that 
it was not worthwhile to play 
football in the snow or mud and, 
conceded the victory to SAE. 
Thus, SAEs victory over Pitt gave 
the former team the City Cham
pionship. It was the first time 
Tech has been champs.
Hoopsters Win 
One of Two
By Mike Berman
The Tech hoopsters were on the 
move agafn this week upping 
their season mark to 4 wins and 1 
loss. The Plaids first season set
back came at the hands of a sur
prisingly fast St. Vincent team, 
but the Tartans were able to come 
back for a victory over W&J 
Thursday night.
The fast running Bearcats from 
St. Vincent came to Skibo Gym 
with a 0-3 record to face ouV 
previously undefeated Tartans. It 
was a tired Tech team, with this 
being their fourth contest in six 
days, that allowed St. Vincent to 
build up a 10 point lead early in 
the match and then stretch that 
margin to as many as 22 points 
in the mid-second half. Only a 
sparkling shooting spree by Soffa 
and Flynn stopped the bearcats 
from completely, walking away 
vith the game.
St. Vincent opened up with a 
quick hoop by 6-3 Tony Thomas 
and from that point they were 
off to the races. They ran the 
pooped Carnegie hoopsters into 
ground with four consecutive fast 
breaks and held a 14-4 lead after 
only 5 minutes. Tech was able to 
[continued on page 8]
All-Opponent
Team Selected 
By the Varsity
Westminster, which handed 
Carnegie Tech its only defeat of 
the football season, dominated the 
Tartans all-opponent team picked 
by players and coaches. The 
Titans placed, three members on 
the team while Washington & 
Lee, Thiel, and Grove City each 
placed two and Geneva and St. 
Vincent had one each.
The voting was close at every 
position except fullback where 
Tom LaMotta of Grove City re
ceived an almost iinanmious vote 
and one end where Jim Ebersberger of Geneva tied LaMotta 
as high vote getter. LaMotta was 
chosen as the best back faced by 
Tech this season and Ebersberger 
as the best linesman.
The 1958-59 Carnegie Tech AllOpponent team follows:
E Jim Ebersberger, Geneva 
G Fay Stratiff. Thiel 
T Joe Fusco, Westminster 
C Tom Pfeiffer, Grove City 
G Ron Frisco, Westminster 
T Malcolm Brownlee. Washington & Lee 
E Tom Fisher, St. Vincent 
B Jack Bestwick, Westminster 
B Bob Funkhouser. Washington A Lee 
B Chuck Scafuri, Thiel 
B Tom LaMotta, Rrove City
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Realty Enjwj. 
Yow Holiday 
Ui Ne Yoafe.
Game
Team WLAvg.
ar*A n 
SE P 7
1750.2
5802.8
DTD 75749.7
KS 48701.1
PRINT MAN. \ 48699.7
OBELISK B ' 39718 6
SPARES
SAT. BACH. 102738.1
BSR 93732.8
SAE G 57649.1
DU 48691.1
METALS 48634.1
B 4 
SPLITS
8613.7
OBELISK A 102760.9
ATO A 102730.2
PKT 62742.7
TDP 35671.8
SAE LIONS" 39624.8
NEWMAN 39623.1
BTP 17681.5
INDIVIDUAL AVERAGES
HAFVEY (SAE)i92.8
REBER (SAE)186.5
?'CLEAN (SN) ' 
PELLEGRINO (PKT)
183.3
180.0
McEWEN (ATO)170.2
TYPING SERVICE
Themes, Essays and Reports
Reasonable Rate 
Call EM. 1-3944
Make it gay, festive and 
enlightening. The Sloane House 
YMCA helps you do it with special 
holiday programs.
Clean, comfortable and inexpensive 
accommodations$2.20-$2.30 single, 
$3.20-$3.60 double. Convenient to 
everything. Ideal year-round residence 
and program center for young men 
and groups of all sizes.
Write Residence Director for Folder
WM. SLOANE HOUSE YMCA
356 West 34th St., Ntw Yirk, OX 5S133 
(On Mock from Pens Station)
a Swingline Stapler no
bigger than a 
pack of gum!
98(Including 
1000 staple)
SWINGLINE TOT"
Millions now in use. Uncondi
tionally guaranteed. Makes book 
covers, fastens papers, arts and 
crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Avail
able at your college bookstore.
SWINGLINE 
"Cub Stapler $1.2*
INC.
IONG tSIAND CITY, NtW rOSK. N. t.
Ken Murphy meets with Revenue Accounting people to discuss a new statistical formula. This 
will be used to proportion the billing time spent on interstate and intrastate Long Distance calls.
Hes making math and telephones 
add up to a fine business career
During his senior year in college, math 
major Kendall T. Murphy had job inter
views with several firms, but none of 
them appealed to him. I wasnt inter
ested in doing pure mathematics, he 
says. I wanted to apply math and statis
tics to everyday business problems and 
have management responsibilities, too.
At a professors suggestion, Ken talked 
with a Bell System representative and 
was surprised to learn how many practi
cal applications statistics had in tele
phone company operations. The thor
ough and varied training program and 
opportunities to advance as a member of 
management also impressed him.
Ken joined the Pacific Telephone and 
Telegraph Company at Sacramento, Cali
fornia, in June, 1956. Two years of ro
tational training familiarized him with 
company equipment, services and com* 
mercial procedures. Then he was as
signed to the Chief Statisticians Office 
in San Francisco.
Today, as a Staff Statistician, Ken is 
applying his math background to a vari
ety of statistical studies dealing with: 
rates and revenue, inventory and obso
lescence of equipment, customer opinion, 
personnel administration, quality control 
and auditing.
This is a big, fast-growing business, 
says Ken, and I feel Im helping it oper* 
ate more efficiently every day. Thats a 
mighty satisfying way to put my college 
education to work.
Ken Murphy got hi B.A. in Mathematics from the University of 
Californias Santa Barbara College in 1956. Hes one of many 
young men building interesting careers in the Bell Telephone 
Companies.' There could be one for you, too. Be sure to talk 
it over with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus.
BELL
TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
A


---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. December 1, 195t
Tech Rifle Team Stays Unbeaten; 
Strive for Seventh Straight Victory
The Carnegie Tech Rifle Team, winner of 31*of 33 matches in the past two years and 
fifth straight this year, will seek its seventh West Penn Conference victory of the season 
when it opposes W&J on Friday, January 8.
The rifle team this year has already recorded wins over Indiana State Teachers Col
lege, Geneva, Grove City, and Washington & Jefferson and is off to its best start in years. 
Gone from last years team which won 12 and lost only 1 and won both the Greater Pitts
burgh Intercollegiate Rifle League Championship and the West Penn Conference are Vic 
Polansky, All-American for two years, and Bill Harris. In addition last years team also 
won the National Rifle Association sectional tournament held at the University of Mary
land and placed four men in the top eight individual marksmen.
Returning '
Back from last years team are 
seniors Larry Burtner, John Jenk
ins, and Bob White; juniors Leo 
Freudenreich and Amie Thunborg; sophomores Leon Andors, 
Bill Houck, and Barry Glunts. In 
addition, Joseph Smith, a junior, 
has returned after a years ab
sence and freshman Phil Meyers 
completes the squad.
The team has eight remaining 
matches and will also participate 
in the N.R.A. Sectional Tourna
ment in March. It should repeat 
as Champions of both the Greater 
Pittsburgh Intercollegiate Rifle 
League and the West Penn Con
ference.
On Friday, November 20, the 
CIT Rifle Team wrapped up its 
third straight win of the year by 
beating W&J 1423 to 1412. On 
Friday, November 13, Tech beat 
Geneva by a score of 1418 to 1353. 
Both of these matches were away 
matches and the Tech team has 
yet to fire a home match.
Individual results of the No
vember 13 and November 20 
matches:
Tech
Burtner .............288
White .................286
Houck .................282
Jenkins ......282
Smith .................280
1418
Geneva
Wenkhous 
Henry ... 
Lynch ... 
Russell . . 
Bonnell ..
. .275 
. .274 
. ,274 . .268 , .262
1353
Tech shooters have registered 
three victories in G-P R Lcom
petition, against Geneva and W. 
and J. They have also fired high 
scores in practice matches includ
ing one against the Rosedale 
Sportsmens Club.
Last year Tech was rated 
amoijg the top teams in the rifle 
competition both locally and na
tionally. They have been cham
pions of the Western Pennsyl
vania Conference since its esta
blishment two years ago. The 
Tartans are also defending 
champs of the Greater Pittsburgh 
Rifle League for the second 
straight year. They have register
ed the high team score at the 
National Rifle Association Sec
tional Matches for years running.
Tech has had numerous chal
lenges for non-league matches 
this year, including a post match 
against the University of Cal
ifornia, the defending National
Tired Hoopsters
f continued from page 7] 
come back, with the aid of usual 
fine play by one Mike Flynn, to 
cut the lead briefly to 2 points 
(17-15). This was the closest the 
Tartans were to get to the spry 
bearcats for a long time as Paul 
Peterson of St. Vincent pushed in 
12 points in ten minutes to give 
the saints a 43-27 spread at halftime.
Two Man Team
St. Vincent came back from 
the intermission with the same 
performance as they had had go
ing into it. They outscored seem
ingly defenseless Tartans, 17 
points to 11 in the ensuing 7 
minutes for a 22 point lead (60- 
38), However, for the next 13 
minutes it was an entirely new 
ball game with Flynn and Sofia 
throwing in hoop after hoop to 
cut a 22 point lead to 6 points in 
just 9 minutes (69-63). It was 
truly an unbelievable perform
ance by these two backcourtmen 
throwing in any shot from, wher
ever theV stopped dribbling. 
Flynn hit 21 points in the sec
ond. half while Sofia had 15. At 
this point St. Vincent went into
a semi-freeze (or was it fright?) 
working for only the sure shots. 
They managed to climb up to a 9
point lead again due to the holes 
in the Tartan defense and finally 
pulled it out (80-71).
Once again it was the same old 
story of poor Tech defense orat 
spotted St. Vincent 10 points in 
the opening and permitted them 
to maintain the lead throughout 
the game.
Flynns 30 points and Sofia's 23 
accounted for 53 of the Teams 
71 points. Thomas of the Bear
cats was high man with 23.
The Tartans rolled over the 
Presidents from W&J Thursday at 
Washington, Pa. before a cro,,Td 
that was about 90% Tech fans. 
The 82-52 victory does not tell 
the whole story because the Tar
tans only led by 7 at halftime 
(38-31). Tech shooting was off in 
the first half and they couldnt 
move against the small W&J 
team. The Plaids finally came up 
to par in the' second half with 
a freshman loaded team scoring 
44 points while holding the Prexies to 21 for the 82-52 win. ,
Freudenreich . .287
Jenkins .............285
Houck ................284
White .................284
Smith .................283
. at j.Reynolds .... 287
Stewart ................286
Garrettson ... .284
Hamilton .........278 ^
Collar .....................277
1423 I412The Grove City College rifle 
team suffered defeat at the hands 
of the Tech Riflemen on Wednes
day, December 2. On Friday, De
cember 4, Tech added another 
notch to their record by defeating 
Indiana State Teachers. The 
Grove City match was an away 
match and the Grovers lost by a 
score of 1409 to 1366. Indiana 
traveled to Tech on Friday to lose 
by a score of 1433 to 1358. These 
two wins bring Techs record to 
five straight wins this year. The 
1433 score CF Friday would have 
been a league record had the 
match been a league match. It 
was however a new school record.
The individual scores were:
Grove CityC. I. T.
Kanston . .,. .270Jenkins. .285
Bogert .......... .276White ............ .286
. .274Burtner ......... .284
Miller .......... .271Freudenreich..279
Wible ...... .275Smith . .  :275
13661409
1. 3 . C.C. I. T.
Zana .......... .284Smith ............ .290
Nibert .... .275White ............ .286
Gammell .... .286Jenkins. .288
Mahaffey. . 266Houck ............ 285
Harpster .. .. 265Burtner.........274
13581433
The Carnegie Tech Rifle team 
took their sixth siratght match of 
the season defeating Geneva for 
the second time in their home 
and home series, 1427-1346.
The Indiana Match victory 
score broke the high team record 
score of 1432 set last year by the 
Techites in a shoot-off with West 
Virginia and Washington and 
Jefferson for the Greater Pitts
burgh League Title.
Tech is leading the Western 
Pennsylvania Conference, having 
defeated Geneva twice and Grove 
City once. West Virginia is a pos
sible challenger for the.Greater 
Pittsburgh Rifle League Title. The 
Champions. The rifle team has 
also been invited to Penn State, 
Bucknell, Maryland, Gettysburg, 
and Drexel for match competition j 
but lacks the fruits to make the 
trips. *
If you Ye a Senior or Graduate Student, make this a productive holiday as well as a happy one.
Take time to investigate career opportunities at IBM. You 11 receive a warm welcome at any 
of nearly 200 branch offices. Just call the manager and ask for an appointment. He is expecting you.
He will tell you what sort of company we are . . . what the people are like .. . what we do . . * 
how rapidly the data processing industry has been expanding. And he will tell you what we 
offer qualified college graduates in career training, job satisfactions, prestige, earnings, and 
opportunities for promotion.
We need men and women for a variety of careers in direct and indirect sales, applied science, 
business administration, programming, manufacturing, engineering research and product devel
opment. We want men and women with imagination, ambition, and unusual ability.
Please call me for the location of the office nearest your hornet,
Mr. G. W, Walkup, Branch Manager 
International Business Machines Corporation 
421 7th Avenue, Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Telephone: Court 1-6880
If circumstances prevent you from accepting this invitation.
'  , DATA PROCESSINOplease ask me or your College Placement Officer for the 
date of the next IBM interview on campus.I BM
have a merry Christmas and a happy new yearl
while y ou1 re home on vacation, 
invest a few minutes in your future...
 SEE IBM
