pV 'tf''
Mmiim$
fk/}*
W0&Mm$mMi
p9Mr 9M 8
ff-fl
XWNicoislHSSWi
p9Mr.e ccc hhanctnp ,o Mvuv sd9 C9MMgiT wme yegiDr.kei 19 ilC?wMA?f ,tB ,ptp Ie ewS wme 9PU
/7&G0 7~cy
The Tartar)
Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

---------------------------------------------------

I! In the game with * * 
2,000 Students j$
Mr. Merchant, there are over three 
thousand students at Carnegie Tech 
who are spending money every day.
Do they know who you are and what 
you have to sell? Are you talking 
with them through the advertising 
columns of The Tartan? Better make 
arrangements for space if you want 
your share of Tech money. If you 
want to get in the game, write to
t iAdvertising Manager The Tartan
Carnegie Technical Schools
I jjj 
I Hotel Schenley f


PITTSBURG, PA.
RGscLAsRG htaDcGuRC 
hva
CLASS DINNERS
ADC
DANCES
James Riley, Prop.
x&saxoxoxax&xox&xzxaxox&x&x&xxax&x*
EVERY 
TECHNICAL MAN
needs one of the following 
Engineering Journals:
ELECTRICAL WORLD
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, $3.00. Monthly Edition, $1.00
THE ENGINEERING RECORD
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical engineer.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
ELECTRIC RAILWAY JOURNAL
The undisputed authority on the construc
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
Special Rates to Students 
Sample Copies on Request
McGRAW PUBLISHING CO.
239 West 39 Street ... New York
xvx&xoxoxox&xoxax&xvxoxaoxoxoxQxax&xD 
1 -2 OIFIF1 1
0Any Hart Schaffner 
and Marx Suit 
Overcoat or Raincoat
c wme m9rTe
I
8$10 garments $5 SIB garments S7.50 | $20 " $10 $25  $12.50 .e$30  $15 $35  $17.50 "
SALE CONTINUES ALL WEEK
8
I
I
Q
*
I PENN AVE., near I Ith 1111-19 PENN AVE. H
0%Q%\0\0SQ%Q\0\Q\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\\0S

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. Ill, No. 19Cartan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1909TEN CENTS
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS' ' ~ ' ' * V
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs are rapidly getting 
into shape for their annual concert at Carnegie Mu
sic Hall on Friday evening, February 19th. The 
clubs are large this year, numbering over sixty men 
in all. The Mandolin Club will have about twentytwo pieces, at least fifteen of them being mandolins. 
This club has made wonderful progress over last 
years organization. The" men who remain from last 
year, have set a higher standard which the new 
men ar keeping up to. They are putting forth a 
higher class of music than ever before; all new, 
up-to-date, and catchy.
The Glee, Club will have at least forty men on the 
stage. They are all in excellent shape, and will no 
doubt give a satisfactory account of themselves. 
Mr. Laithe, who was a star attraction at last yearns 
concert, is with the club again, and is on the pro
gram for a solo or two. It is not necessary to dwell 
on Mr. Laithes ability, as he is well known to the 
student body as an excellent baritone. The quar
tette is practicing daily at Mr. Dorringtons studio. 
All of their songs are new, and bid fare to bring 
rounds, of applause from the audience.
Mr. Sommers has taken Mr. Laithes place in the 
quartette and is holding down the first bass part in 
ship-sbape style, otherwise it is the same as last 
year. Mr. Sommers is also leader of the Glee Club, 
and is on the job like a veteran. The 1909 Medley 
and the new school song, Hail Carnegie, written 
by Sprague, 09, are important features of the 'irogram.
On Thursday night, the 11th, the complete Glee 
and Mandolin Clubs will appear at the 1912 smoker
for the benefit of the Athletic Association, and will 
give the boys a sample of what they will hear at 
Carnegie Hall on the 19th. On Friday night the 
clubs take a trip to Tarentum, and give a concert 
at the Nixon Theater. The local manager at Taren
tum reports that seats are going like hot cakes, and 
we may expect a full house.
On the following Friday evening there are big 
doings at Carnegie Hall. The annual concert is one 
of the most important events of the school year, and 
it behooves every son and daughter of Carnegie 
Tech to go down and help make the nffair a howl
ing success. The managers report that at this early 
date a large number of tickets have been sold. The 
Margaret Morrison girls are taking a keen interest 
in the concert and are expected to be present in 
large numbers.
The management wishes to announce that in order 
to give the students a chance at the seats before 
they are put before the public, a sale of seats will 
be held on Thursday, February 11th, from 9 A. M. 
until 10 P. M. on the first floor of the main building 
near the stairs.
It has been suggested by some of the students 
that those who are going to stag it, get together and 
have sections reserved for them, and make the affair 
a real Tech night.
Section leaders, get busy, decide where your 
crowd is going to sit, see Koethen, Kenton, or King, 
and have sections reserved.
The public sale of seats starts Friday morning, 
February 12, at Mellors.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH TARTAN
a number of nice field goals and Patterson dropped 
in a good majority of the fouls. Shaub and Keeley 
played well for the Architects. Line-up:
Mho32. Architects15.
Gibson...................................F..................................... Shaub
Hartman...............................F.................................... Keeley
Patterson.............................C................................. Hatcher
Wright-McElroy ..............G................................. Fleming
Cully ....................................G............................ Rigaumont
Field goalsHartman 9, Shaub 3, Keeley 2, Pat
terson 2, Gibson, Cully 1. FoulsPatterson 6, Shaub 
5. RefereeNat Brown.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music 
Hall, February 19.
THE GENEVA GAME.
The game played last Saturday night at Beaver 
Falls against Geneva College, proved to be a land
slide for Tech. During the past week the team 
has developed wonderfully and now shows in its 
true form, which is rapidly putting it in the front 
rank of the teams of the Western College. The 
eastern trip, which will be taken this week, should 
get the team into excellent shape for the champion
ship games which come next week against Westmin
ster and Allegheny. These are the last games of 
the championship series which will be played in 
Pittsburg this year, and will be the last chance 
for every Tech man to see the team work.
The game with Geneva saw a new line-up for the 
team. Captain Leety, who was injured in the Grove' 
City game, was forced to remain on the bench. 
Brown, who played such a phenomenal game in the 
last game was also unable to play. The team de
serve all the more credit for the victory on this ac
count.
In the first half Tech fought every inch of the 
way and accomplished what has scarcely ever been 
done in a collegiate game, that of shutting out the 
Geneva team without a point or a goal from fouls. 
The half ended 170 in favor of Tech.
In Casey and Agnew the Tech team has a pair 
of guards which will worry any team they meet. 
Their development has been rapid and at present 
they not only play a remarkable defensive game but 
are aggressive at all times. Dolan showed up in 
his true form, being at ail points of the floor when
ever needed. Harrison upheld his reputation of 
being one of the fastest forwards in the League, and, 
although being handicapped by the absence of his 
side-partner, Brown, played an unusually strong 
game. Williams was placed for the first time at 
forward, filling the position well. It must be remem
bered that Williams position is one of guard and 
this caused him to fall back from time to time to a 
defensive game.
The score of 336 in Techs favor demonstrates 
that the team has developed in all points of the 
game. For a team to be shut out on their own 
floor for an entire half and scoring only six points in 
the entire game points plainly to the fact that the 
team opposiing them is fast, aggressive and heady. 
Such is the form that Techs team showed on 
Saturday night. Considering that the team was 
without the services of their captain and star for
ward, Brown, and the line-up was practically new, 
the outcome of the Geneva game is extremely grati
fying.
GROVE CITY CURTAIN RAISER.
Mho32. Architects15. .
As a preliminary to the Grove City game Tuesday 
evening, the Mho Club defeated the Architects in a 
game characterized by roughness. Hartman caged
CRAFTSMENS CLUB.
January 24, 19092:30 P. M. At exactly this hour 
eighteen members of the Craftsmens Club gathered 
at the entrance of Riverview Park, again demon
strating the punctuality that is so pronounced in all 
Craftsmens activities. Here with Dean C. B. Con
nelly as our head and leader, we proceded to the 
U. of P. Observatory, where we were royally welcom
ed by Dr. Schleisinger, who personally conducted 
the party through the buildings, proving himself a 
master guide as well as an astronomer. While in 
the midst of our trip Dr. Brashear, who more than 
once has shown himself our friend, came in and 
greeted us with his usual cordiality.
Some of the more important and interesting things 
that were shown and explained to us were the equa
torial, and the large refracting telescopes with their 
massive domes and shutters and the delicate ma
chinery used to operate them.
There was the clock room in which was a tele
scope of peculiar construction used to observe the 
exact time of the rising and setting of the planets, 
then some distance from this room and securely pro
tected from all molestation, were the master clocks. 
Here there are clocks that tick on indefinitely, 
clocks that stop ticking one second every minute so 
you may set your watch, clocks without faces, clocks 
that write with pen and ink the very movements 
of the stars as Observed by the astronomer, who is 
over in the other room, clocks or barometers that 
register the condition of the air, and a large ther
mometer to take the temperature. All these were 
working in perfect unity and keeping tag on the 
heavenly bodies, I presume, so that this our small 
and insignificant sphere, shall not go astray.
Next we were escorted to the lecture room, where 
we received an invitation to again visit the observa
tory some night in June, when, if the night is clear, 
we shall be privileged to see some of the stars and 
planets through these telescopes of which we have 
learned so much.
Frank Jamison.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
In view of the approaching celebration of -Lincolns 
birthday, Mr. Church told us the other day in as
sembly, how Lincoln came to write his famous Get
tysburg address. It was written on a scrap ojf wrap
ping paper while in the train on his way to the dedi
cation of the Gettysburg Cemetery.
The main address of the, occasion was made by 
Edward Everett, the most eloquent man in America. 
Mr. Lincoln felt himself unworthy to follow such a 
gifted speaker, and was. firmly convinced that his 
own speech had been a failure. Mr. Everett after
wards said that Lincoln had come nearer to the key
note of the occasion in two minutes than he had in 
two hours. The world evidently agrees with Mr. 
Everett, for his remarks have been forgotten, while 
Lincolns words are written on the heart of every 
school boy and girl in America.
Not only do his words live today, but Lincoln him
self lives in the hearts of his countrymen. If the 
youth of our land studied his life more closely, we 
should have a noble manhood, a fairer womanhood, 
cleaner politics, and a more glorious nation. Not 
only is. Lincoln the greatest American hero, but also 
the greatest world hero. In reading history we are 
grieved to notice that most of the great heroes have 
not been great in the true sense.
Frederick the Great was a great warrior, but many 
of his acts were of a low moral order. Bismarck 
was unscrupulous and readily sacrified others to 
gain his own selfish ends. Napoleon, although a 
world compeller, was yet a self-satisfied egotist, 
consumed with ambition and drunk with success. 
But Lincolns public career is without spot or blem
ish, his private life thoroughly clean, unselfish, and 
devoted to the service of right and of his fellowmen. 
His sublime independence was the direct outgrowth 
of his steadfast purpose to do righthe first assured 
himself that he was right, and then went ahead. 
His career is a striking example of the power to 
overcome environment, poverty, and adversity that 
is inherent in man providing he has steadfastness 
of purpose. If he but have the will, he can find the 
way. Lincolns intense desire for knowledge, his 
untiring efforts to improve himself in every way, his 
firm conviction of the ultimate triumph of right, his 
sense of duty to his fellowmen, were the mainsprings 
of his rise, and the secrets of the success of his life 
work.
And his name reaching down through the ages of 
time,
Will still through the years of eternity shine.
Miss BradtMiss Day, how can you tell when a 
lobster is fresh?
Miss DayWhen its alive!
Did he bite, Helen?
The Junior Dietetics Class has invented a-new 
system of abbreviation all its own, for use in taking 
dictation.
A Plebe was heard to remark: I am going away 
now, and if I return during my absence, keep me 
until I get there. ?, , ,
Running a lunch room is usually regarded as a 
rather sordid occupation. At any rate, there as not 
much poetry in the lives of cafe managers, supposed
ly, yet Miss Bradt found this note on her desk in 
the cafe one day last week:
Cecilia, dear, when you were gone,
I stole both cake and bread!
Likewise a glass of milk and then 
A slice of gingerbread!
I cannot say that I regret 
Or that my soul repents,
But, just to keep the balance straight,
I send you twenty cents!
(Signed) C. L. W.
The date of the Junior Prom is at hand. Heres to 
success, and may you all have a very good time,
1910.. ,  j; }if.
Two M. M. C. S. girls, last Saturday afternoon, 
took up their stand in the line of applicants for ad
mission to the orchestra concert. As they approach
ed the ticket window, the business-like person be
hind the grating, announced, Nothing left but stand
ing roomseventy-five cents, please.
Not for me, said M. M. C. S. No. 1.
Nor for me, quoth No. 2, and they turned away 
disgustedly.
Well, if we cant hear Nordica, lets go and hear 
something else, proposed No. 1, and No. 2 agreed, 
all right. Come on, lets go to the Nickelodion!
The Junior Household Arts seem to have some 
serious affection of the mind, judging by their ac
tions. Miss Williams, in speaking of dessicated 
eggs, called them desecrated, and Miss Moore, in a 
fit of absent-mindedness, made her Parker House 
rolls heart shaped!
The Secret of Success.
Push, said the Button.
Take pains, said the Window.
Never be led, said the Pencil.
Be up to date, said the Calendar.
Always keep cool,! said the Ice.
Never lose your head, said the Hammer.
Aspire to greater things, said the Nutmeg. 
Make much of small things, said the Microscope. 
Never do anything off hand, said the Glove 
Spend much time in reflection, said the Mirror.

---------------------------------------------------

Mi Mf-Mfl7
Do the work you are sooted for, said the Flue.
Get a good pull with the Ring, said the Door-bell.
Be sharp in all your dealings, said the Knife.
Find a good thing and stick to it, said the Glue.
Dr. MartinAre you listening, Miss Powell? I 
wish that you would look this way.
Miss PowellI cannot see through Madelines 
head.
Miss Rayburn is a good squeezerof pocket-books. 
Pay up, girls.
The Revolution of 1909.
The Senior Household Arts class has just com
pleted its semi-annual revolution, and is once more 
where it started from in the fall. We have been 
reproved occasionally for a spirit of frivolity, or in 
other words, giddiness. But what else can be ex
pected from a body in constant and rapid rotation? 
A spinning top always creates more or less of a 
hum, and eighteen of them will naturally make a 
noise like a bee-hive. We frequently hear of some 
one getting stung, too!
The work in the cafe this half will be much the 
same as last; in Dietaries the work will be along 
institutional lines instead of family dietaries: and in 
the House a dinner and a reception will take the 
place of the breakfast and luncheon served last term. 
We have heard of no fatalities among our guests so 
far, and so feel encouraged to attempt these larger 
things.
Miss B, are you going up to the lunch room?
Dont bother me. Im thinking about the Prom!
The Old Homestead.
Back from the street, nearly concealed by the 
long untrimmed maples, stood the old homestead. 
As I drew into the yard, a lump rose in my throat 
and tears to my eyes. It was as though I had been 
taken in a dream, back to girlhood days. Every 
nook and corner of the great wide yard looked so 
familiar, yet there was a seeming strangeness and 
lonesomeness that hung about the house. The grass 
was nearly to my waist; the path, no longer to be 
seen; the old vine grew thick and heavy, nearly cov
ering the windows; and green moss covered the 
steps. My heart beat fast as I entered the squatty 
old living room with its long black rafters overhead. 
A bunch of herbs hung here and there, and the old 
china was still on the rail as it was forty years ago. 
Through the broken window pane the vine had 
thrust its green branches, and with it streamed in a 
narrow ray of sunlight that gleamed coldly upon the 
black andirons on the brick fireplace. I stood still 
how many thoughts came to me, how many faces 
rose before me! The shutters rattled as I never 
knew them before, the floor creaked as I walked 
across it, and I raised the time-worn latch, stepped 
out, and gently closed the door.
N nNB ,E,,B
INTERESTING LINCOLN LETTER.
The following is a copy of a fac simile letter that 
is being sent out by the Berry Brothers, Ltd., Var
nish Manufacturers, of Detroit. The original of the 
letter, written to Mrs. Bixby, hangs on the walls of 
Brasenose College, Oxford University, England. It 
is considered one of the best specimens of English. 
For purity and elegance of diction, and it is doubtful 
if it has ever been surpassed:
Executive Mansion, 
Washington, Nov. 21, 1864.
To Mrs. Bixby, Boston, Mass.:
Dear Madam: I have been shown in the files of
the War Department a statement of the Adjutant 
General of Massachusetts that you are the mother 
of five sons who have died gloriously on the field 
of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must 
be any word of mine which should attempt to be
guile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. 
But I cannot refrain from tendering you the conso
lation that may be found in the thanks of the repub
lic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly 
Father may assuage the anguish of your bereave
ment, and leave you only the cherished memory of 
the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must 
be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the 
altar of freedom.
Yours very sincerely and respectfully,
A. Lincoln.
TEACHERS INDUCE CHEATING.
Says Unfairness of Students is Caused largely by 
Unfriendly Instructors.
In a lengthy editorial on cribbing and cheating 
at examinations, the Daily Californian notes there is 
more dishonesty in some classes than others and 
lays a large part of the blame at the doors of the 
instructors.
We believe, says the editorial, the main cause 
lies in the attitude and methods of certain instruct
ors. In place of appearing in the role of a friend 
and assistant, they impress the members of their 
classes with the fact that they are executors. They 
seem to be machines themselves and they treat the 
students as though they too were parts of machinery. 
The result appears to be that the students consider 
it well and good if they can beat the machine.
Of course ther * are persons on the campus small 
enough to take advantage of the trust that has been 
placed in them by the instructor and several such 
cases have arisen, but the students themselves will 
soon settle that phase of the difficulty, and we are 
strongly inclined to the belief that a little of trust, 
and confidence, and spirit of friendship, between 
instructor and instructed, will do more to eliminate 
unfairness than all the surveillance which can be 
exercised, with the assistant of an army of trustees.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music
Hall, February 19,

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, 09Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, 10-Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, 10, NightAssociate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.Associate Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ............................................................ $2.00
Single Copy ................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
A month of the winter term has gone and we have 
been duly notified of our more recent shortcomings 
and we can proceed to rectify or not, as it suits our 
individual fancy. Most of us have lessened the 
number of lemons usually handed out, it is hoped 
and, and those who have not probably become hard
ened so that the mere matter of a flunk or two 
causes no particular annoyance. It will be well for 
every one to improve the opportunities to catcfi up 
now, as before the end of the month several festivi
ties occur that to say the least will not aid the so
cially inclined student to improve his scholarship 
standing. j j j |
A great many schools are devoting a week at about % \
this time to festivities and calling it Junior week, 
while, owing to our somewhat different organization, 
we have no Junior week, we are not to suffer for lack 
of social life. The Margaret Morrison girls have 
their Junior Prom on the twelfth, while the Applied 
Science Juniors take advantage of Washingtons 
birthday to hold theirs. We also hear that the Crafts
mens Club will give a hop in the near future. And 
then we must not forget the Glee Clubs annual con
cert on the nineteenth. This list, in addition to the 
smaller affairs constantly going on, lead us to be
lieve that Carnegie Tech is in no danger of stagnat
ing for lack of social life in the next month.
We are forced to speak of a matter that we had 
hoped could be allowed to pass unnoticed had it not 
come to our notice in such a forcible way on a couple 
of recent occasions. We refer to a habit, the indul
gence in which, by a few students brands a large 
number as lacking in the qualities supposed to be 
essential in a gentleman. This habit to which we 
refer is the use of profanity, more particularly the
loud-mouthed kind with which pedestrians on the 
park bridge are regaled when on their way to or 
from the school.
On both the occasions cited above members of 
some of the classes in school were indulging in the 
kind of language that even the most unrefined are 
wont to use only in lowered tones or under stress 
of anger; but on both these occasions a small co
terie were polluting the atmosphere with a type of 
Billingsgate that would be hard to beat. Not one 
of the three mens schools is filled with the type 
that makes this brand of conversation its specialty 
then why should we allow a few to injure the name 
of the school and stamp the entire student body as 
lacking in self-control as well as good taste? We 
do not refer to this to advertise our failings, but 
think it time that our student body got busy and we 
can think of no better opportunity for organized stu
dent sentiment to show us its power.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
Some of the students appalled by the almost uni
versal corruption rampant in municipal affairs in all 
of our larger cities, particularly in Pittsburg, have 
taken a step in the right direction and organized the 
Tech Stevenson Club.- c . . . i
The officers have arranged to have Mr. W. H. 
Stevenson and others, address the students interested 
in this movement at the Bellefield Club, Craig and 
Center Ave., tonight, Wednesday.
Those interested will assemble in front of the 
school at 7:45 P. M., and march to the club in a body, 
led by the Tech-band.
As this is a strictly student affair, a large turnout 
is desirable, so show that you are a live one by 
being there, if skeptical come and be convinced.
SIGMA RHOSIGMA TAU DANCE.
On last Friday evening Sigma R'ho and Sigma Tau 
fraternities entertained a few of their friends at an 
informal dance at the Keystone Club. Dancing last
ed until twelve-thirty and during the evening light 
refreshments were served.
HOCKEY GAME.
The hockey team has redeemed itself for the tie 
game played with the University of Pittsburgh, 
earlier in the season. We. felt sure that their really 
was no question of relative superiority, but are 
glad that the question, if one there was, has been 
finally settled. Our team iplayed an excellent game 
especially in the first half, and the loss of the player 
who defaulted the team in mid-season for profess
ional ranks, did not seem to hurt the team any, in 
fact the team played better than at any time during 
the season. We can safely say that the hockey 
team has had a very successful and satisfactory 
season.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
$10 garmaen tas5eSt aen $IBt$ 7g.|ae2
chant c, chnoc act voch,ut sdtc o CaccCn gnccnh ciou ouT ,cinh gouw 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
 ,  - ' OFFICERS :
s JAS, J. FLANNERY, ... President
JAMES J. BOOTH, ... vice President 
JOHN G. PEW, - - 2nd V. Pres, and Sec.C. B. AYIyESWORTH, --- - Treasurer
x>o.qd0o:o
APPLIED DESIGN 
The last judgment of the Class A Plan problems 
in design was held by the Society of Beaux Arts 
Architects in New York on January 21, The prob
lem was A Night Shelter. Only fifteen mentioned 
designs were submitted in all from five ateliers. 
Five were submitted from the  Carnegie Technical 
Schools, and of these, four received mentions, those 
of Messrs. Rigaumont, King, Peebles and Robling. 
No medals were awarded in this class.
At the same time a Class B one-day sketch prob
lem, A Hall for a Mineral Spring, was judged. Mr. 
S. E. Wentworth, of our School, received a mention 
in this class. At this time also the Pupin prizes 
were awarded. The problem was A Private Car 
for a President of a Railway System. Both prizes 
were awarded to students of Mr. Hornbostels atelier 
in New York.
Charette week. You know the rest.
Inscriptions for the Rostral column are being pre
pared by wholesale. A few of the choice ones that 
have Ibeen noticed are:
To him who in the love of Art.
Made me from my ideas depart,
And on the top of column proud,
Hang out that eyesore like a shroud
The Entablature.
Dedicated to Mr. Lloyd Warren.
May the wretch die,
Who made me try 
To place near the sky,
The Entablature. . .
Director Hamerschlag gave the boys an informal 
talk on Friday afternoon, the subject being the for
mation of a student senate. After briefly explaining 
the attitude of the faculty of the Schools in the 
matter of student government, and their ideas on 
how such affairs should be run, he urged the adop
tion of some systematic and organized body to 
define what should constitute the dicipline of the 
School, would hear all cases of breach of discipline 
that may arise, making recommendations to the 
faculty of the proper punishment to be inflicted. 
After answering questions in regard to the matter, 
he let i us with a much clearer idea about the part 
the student plays in the regulation of school affairs. 
On account of this being charette week, it is doubt
ful if the subject can be very carefully discussed, 
but as soon as the wagon leaves on Sunday, and the 
excitement subsides a little, there is no doubt but 
that the entire subject can ibe gone into in detail, 
and definite* arrangements made. The idea is an 
excellent one that has been put into effect in a great 
number of schools and colleges during the last few 
years. As far as we are able to learn there has yet 
to be the first case of a failure or a violation of the
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
COURT DERBY
TECH-NEGIE
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT
tto 0etting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

IOTHE TARTAN
nN WtCROtRuW H GvDB p9MM rM. ecrMhant,M ro9avu 9v 9vESTABLISHED IN 1867
 OUR SHOES ARE ALL LEATHER  MADE BY THE MOST FAMOUS MANUFACTURERS BOTH EAST AND WEST 
$6 50, $5.50, $5.00, $4.00, $3.50, $3.00
ask to see our SWELL SHOD SHOES at S4.00 the pair
--------SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS--------
trust and responsibility imposed on the members of 
the board.
Who says Joey cant box?
Carl Gleckler, the winner of last years Patrons 
Prize, returned to school Monday, after an absence 
of eight months in Europe. He has promised to give 
an account of a few of his adventures in next weeks 
Tartan.
Julian Jacobs was called to his home in Wheeling, 
W. Va., for a few days last week on account of the 
sickness of his grandmother.
No more Kan-Kan of iSalome dances, says Nicols.
PREP. SMOKER.
On Friday evening, January 29, 1909, the Prep, 
class held its first smoker in the Charles Building, at 
Forbes and Craig streets.
The early part of the evening was spent in singing 
popular and school songs, and several selections 
from Herrons Victorela were highly appreciated by 
those present.
About 10:45 a three-course lunch was served, be
fore which a group picture was taken. The table 
was arranged in a T shape and was decorated with 
potted plants and carnations tied with school col
ors. At each place a souvenir pipe, with tobacco, 
was placed.
After the lunch was well under way Mr. Wardlaw, 
as toastmaster, started the intellectual part of the 
repast. Much useful advice was forthcoming from 
those of the Faculty who were present. Mr. Con
nelly told among other things of the first efforts of 
the schools. Those present as guests of the class 
were: Prof. Connelly, Mr. Steen, Mr. Bassett, Mr. 
Hunt, Mr. Birge, and Mr. Leighon.
Several former members of the class were also 
present. All responded with appropriate stories or 
speeches.
After cigars had been freely distributed, the mem
bers and guests departed to their homes. A unani
mous vote of thanks was extended the committee 
for their efforts in making this first social attempt a 
success.
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
J. S. Wilson (the Angel boy), was forced to ap
pear in court recently. Petty larceny was the charge 
against him. He turned states evidence, but is now 
being prosecuted by Ten-Foot Brown for defama
tion of character.
Have you seen the human whale? Then go to the 
natatorium Tuesday or Saturday afternoon: Silent 
Murphy is taking swimming lessons.
Porter is the high jumper of the Soph electricals. 
But it takes a bomb to make him do his best.
Basket-Ball Standings.
Tech .........................
Won.Lost.
0
1*
Pet.
Allegheny .....................500Grove City...................1666Westminster.................1500
4000
*Forfeited.
We have five more games to play in the champion
ship seriestwo at home and three away. We meet 
every team except Geneva on their home floor before 
the finish, and Allegheny and Westminster here. 
Allegheny is considered the toughest proposition of 
all and the game to-morrow night will very probably 
be a decisive one in the championship race.
A meeting of former University of Chicago stu
dents and alumni will be held at the home of Mrs. 
Charles F. Weller on Saturday evening to consider 
forming a Chicago Association.
The Faculty at Princeton has forbidden the foot
ball teams proposed trip here next fall.
Wouldnt it be embarrassing for a quiet young 
man like Wallace to be mistaken for a prospective 
licensee when his intentions were purely social?
Dont forget the smoker to be given by 1912night. 
The proceeds are for the athletic fund.
The payments on the fund are coming in, but there 
is still a big gap between promise and fulfillment.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Musi
Hall, February 19.
Prof. TrinkgrThe estimate proved to be only a 
guess-timate.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TA RTANil
Echoes of the new building: 
'j Where: is room 317?
* Is Math, in the attic or t 
"I dont know where Im
the cellar?;m going, but Im on myE -i .<R3way.
PJ . ' !,>: : 0 ' ''  ' B  ~ 
Prof. Kellar gave a house warming party to C and 
D in his new lecture room, and very delightfully en
tertained them with the account of his boyhood days.
Slips of the Tongue.
Mr. LightnerI have a dog; his name is Rex.
Mr. HornbostelThis was designed by Carnegie,
Prof. KellarIt is as difficult to do that as it is 
for a rich man to pass through the eye of a needle.
Mr. Hower (looking at his image in a mirror)  
Now, see nothing at all.
Debate.
A very entertaining debate on the negro question 
was delivered before section C last Tuesday. A few 
of the choice statements are here repeated:
R. F. Johnson: .
Mr. Lightner, Honorable Judges, Fellow Students 
and so forth. ; *
When the negro gentlemen go to a classical supper
Brown University, has set aside $1,000 as prizes 
to students who excel! in mathematics.
To the telephone room went a sophmore brave and 
.stood there gabbing the worthless young knave. I 
dare you to kiss me, the hello girl said.
- ., * * * * w *
The editor refuses to print the rest, it being pri
vate business..
We understand that Mr. Payne of the Trade
School Faculty, has added a shower bath to his al
ready long list of patents.. a.-' ' r :l   ,K
Mason will not need a cab for !the Junior Prom.
He can go on his friends train.
HartmanDoes this revolution counter register 
in meters or feet?
He dreamed a dream then woke up,
And laughed, for it was funny; '
He dreamed his son had written him
 And did not ask for money, Case Tech.
A friend of Bunny Masons said, I love to love a
Mason, cause a Mason never tells.
^neBest'Store
TIIE BRIGHT SPOT 
Cor. Forbes and Atwood Sts.
SHIRT
59c
d9iwm Y,Noo 
gJ .9ie
SALE
$1.19
d9iwm Y,Nqo 
gJ Y2Noo
I Best Bargains Ever Offered.V Dont Miss the Chance.
Q\O%O\O\OSOSO\O%O\O\^SOSO%C>%0%O\O%OS 8uADC staDRC
COLLARS
STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS
Bell Phone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main &
aSQSO\ti\OSOSO\O\O\0\^\OSO\O\O\0%O\O%
2BRACE BROS.
WAtDCRaRaG
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music
Hall, February 19,
CyRaGB WRADRaG
Pittsburg, Pa.
O9wm 3nm9eT fM8fT 2
SERVE
SALLEES
ICE CREAM
AT YOUR 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
3618 Forbis $1.

---------------------------------------------------

-^333 Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools SSiir
HEEREN BROS.&CO. MAM5TRING JEWELERS aid SILVERSMITHS
uRRaRD OtcWCcD1B nRDD ApRN ADC Rc1usu GsN
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech School Pins
12 THE TARTAN
WHITE FRIARS.
Now that the chorus rehearsals are well under 
way, the next thing to do is to obtain a good place 
to meet. The orchestra rehearsal room in the 
Institute building is available, but has no piano. 
The loan promised by the faculty from the Students 
Activities fund is held up temporarily by the com
mittee having the matter in charge. As it is imperitive to get the rest of the rehearsals smoothly 
under way at the earliest possible date, it is hoped 
the difficulty will be overcome, so that a piano can 
be rented and placed in that room at once. When 
the Tartan went to press Monday night, it was stated 
by officers of the club, that unless there was a piano 
in tne rehearsal room, there would be no rehearsal 
of the choir this week. Coach Edmundson said 
he thought it advisable to call it off in the Assembly 
Hall, as the available space is so small that the men 
derive no benefit from the work they do, and that it 
is nothing but a waste of their time and his.
In order to give some idea of the interest that is 
taken in college dramatics, the following clippings 
from some of the Tartans exchanges are printed. 
All have appeared within the last month or so.
From The Daily Maroon, of the University of 
Chicago:
LAY PLANS FOR PRODUCTION
Friars to Stage New Play in MayTo Choose Coach 
and Decide on Exitra Performance in the Near 
Future.
At the meeting of the Blackfriars, held yesterday 
to accept the opera for this years production, the 
mode of presenting the play this year was discussed. 
It was strongly urged by the members present that 
an executive committee of three, including the 
Abbott, be appointed to select the business manager 
and his staff. No definite action was taken, but the 
matter will be settled at the meeting next 
Wednesday.
The play will be given in May and the rehearsals 
will begin the first of next quarter. They will be 
announced at that time, and will be open as in
former years to all the men of the University. 
During the next two weeks the necessary revision 
work on the chosen play will be made, and at the end 
of that time the manager will be chosen. He will 
arrange for a coach, and until he is chosen, it is 
impossible to say who will have charge of the show. 
J. R. McDonald, who has coached the Wig and 
Masque club of the University of Pennsylvania for 
a number of years, has been mentioned for the place.
More than Poet, a comic opera of college life 
in two acts, was chosen as the Blackfriar play for 
1909 at a meeting held yesterday morning in Cobb 
hall. The book and lyrics are by Howard Painter 
Blackford and Hurnard Kenner, while the music is 
by Charles Willard and Richard E. Myers.
Four plays were submitted in the contest, the 
others being Nixon, 99 by Bernard I. Bell and 
Earl Bowlby; Maroonland, by Carl Burton and 
George Barrett, and The Lord of Makow by Karl 
Keefer, Herbert Kellar and Gordon Erickson. The 
committee which passed on the plays, was com
posed of Harry A. Hansen, chairman. Early Perry, 
Hilinar Baukhage, Hirschl tShaw, Professor Jas. W. 
Linn and Al. F. Butler was chief judge of the music. 
The committee in its report advised that the play 
be revised in the next two weeks. The award was 
unanimous.
To Stage Rejected Operas Elsewhere
The authors who failed to win the competition will 
not have done their work in vain, according to re
ports. Songs from Maroonland are in demand; 
the music of Nixon, 99 is to be used for a play in 
Rock Island, and the Lord of Makow will be given 
an early performance in a city near Chicago.
The Authors
The four authors are all members of the Chi 
Psi fraternity. Willard is an ex-08, and was here 
only two years. Blackford is the chairman of the 
Senior play committee, prior of the Blackfriars, and 
a member of the International and Pen clubs. He 
had a feminine role in the cast of the Sign of the 
Double Eagle and Sure Enough Segregation. 
Kenner is a Junior. He is a member of the Score 
club, Order of the Iron Mask, Blackfriars, Glee Club, 
Tigers Head and the Pen club. Meyers belongs to
If you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
iication it can be gotten through  The 
Tartan at student rates.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
the Three-Quarters club, International club and 
Blackfriars.
Columbia Spectator, of Columbia University: 
CAST HAS ROOM FOR TALENT
Chorus Rehearsal Today
Yesterday afternoon, in the Varsity Show rehear
sal, the principal parts were gone over by a tentative 
cast which was made up as follows: D. R. Fox 11 
as Mr. Todd the millionaire who wanted a prince 
for a son-in-law; E. J. Bullwinkle 12, as the fair 
German Princess; A. B. Corton 11 as the ambitious 
Mrs. Bertram; E. S. Horton 10 as Tessie; J. P. 
Rome 09 as Heinrich; A. . Haight (F. A.), as Henry 
Hawkins; M. P. Blader 10|S, as Oswald; and A. T. 
Weimer 12 as the unlucky Strauss.
This 'cast is far from being permanent, however, 
and the ooach announced that there will probably be 
several changes before the final one is made up. 
It is therefore necessary that all the understudies 
should come regularly to rehearsals.
Chorus rehearsals will ibe held tonight in 601 
Mines. It is incumbent upon every man whose 
names appears on the list to be present. Up to this 
time no men have been dropped, but hereafter any 
man who misses two consecutive rehearsals will no 
longer be considered.
The University of Washington Dramatic Club is 
going to produce Everyman sometime in March.
Clipped from Boston Techs paper, The Tech: 
POSTER CHOSEN FOR TECH SHOW.
Felix A. Burton 09 Winner in Close Competition 
with Thirteen Others.
POSTER BEST IN YEARS
Drawing to be Sent to Publishers Will be Finished 
in Two Months.
With thirteen other competitors in the field, Felix 
Arnold Burton 1909, won the competition for the 
Show poster. The result of the call for drawings 
was gratifying and at least half of the posters sub
mitted could have been used. In no other case, 
however was good drawing so well combined with 
a clever idea as in the winning drawing, which is 
striking as well as artistic. The idea of the pilgrim 
is brought out by a striking figure in the background 
with the words Tech Show and That Pill Grimm 
cleverly lettered on a colored ground. In the fore
ground, a row of dancing girls lend interest and ac
tion to the drawing and bring in the idea of light 
musical comedy, to relieve the grimness of the title 
and the rest of the drawing.
Burton is taking the architectural course and has 
had a good deal of practice in drawing. He drew
^404^4<^*04^*04^*0*0^.*0*0*0*0*0*! 
j|j When Dry Cleaning is done properly you 
*f* cant help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN,
^ at 3911 Forbes, near Boquet. Give him a sami pie order.
04<^4^04<tt^04*04^0*0^*0*0*0*0*'
X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*SG HEN LEY FARMS 
FIFTH AVE. BELLEFI ELD AVE. X
m FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY m
^ For prices and terms apply g
g ROOM 1411 FARMERS BANK BUILDING jj 
*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*X0*XO
8 WELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED iI
X
| Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co.
0 301 South Craig Street4* 0AAAl.A'-t-'A.t. A.t. A.t. AAA.t. J.
FOR EXPERTSENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, 
DRAUGHTSMEN  EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered 
by this house
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
A ft A ^ A^Af"t Aft AfttTuft A<~l Aft Aft Af~l A if* Ay!lVTvT^TVTWVVTVvvTVVvVVvTVTVTVV>.,T

Monogram School Stationery, gold or in any
^ color, can be had from Mitchell, Soph. Mining, ^
J,
0 or Johnson, Soph. Electrical, for 50c per quire.  
0 4*ftAy%AftArtAy^A^Ay*iAy^Ay%Ay^Ay^Ay*iAy*iAy*iAy*iAy*iAy*iAvfiAvTvvTWyVVTWTWVyTWVWVW,PvVWT/TWWTWTWT
PX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X 
0 PHILLIPS & MANNING& &STATIONERS$ lV/f A n A r7T\Tl?C? T3rvc?ril HAD T~\C XMAGAZINES POST CARDS
3702 Forbes Street
CIGARS TOBACCO$ CIGARS W,Wfc T0BACC0 0
0 0 X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0
/0x0x0x0xoxaxoxox0x0xox0x'0x0x0xo.x0x0x
| R. W. MEDICK I
g CHOICE HOME DRESSED MEATS AND O 
X POULTRY 0
^ Both Phones 3804 Forbes Street n
0 XX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XO
*4*********
GstCRDs WAtDCay A1RDy
Leslie Kime,
%
---------All work guaranteed---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
TECH BOYS TAKE NOTICE! 
NIFTY HEAVY TAN SHOES $4.00 AND $5.00
5o2b Penn STOEBENERS6222 Frankstown EAST END
posters for plays at Bowdoin College, which he at
tended before he entered Tech, and made two or 
three drawings before sbmitting one in this com
petition. This makes the fourth student poster out 
of eleven which the Tech Show has had, and th fact 
that these four have been in the last five yearsr- ;r. . ' . : -,speaks well for the artistic ability: at the Institute. 
The drawing is to be prepared and sent to the engra
ver as soon as posible, and the poster will be 
finished in a couple of months. 
From The Texan, the semi-weekly paper of the 
University of Texas:
The Curtain Club has stepped beyond mere 
business sessions, and has started to actual practice 
with a vim and hustle that bids fair for something to 
come.
The play, The iSilent Woman, to be presented 
the last of February, was thoroughly worked over at 
a meeting in the Auditorium last night. Mr. 
Young had a try-out on some of the parts which had 
not been previously decided upon. The men take 
hold of the play readily and with a confidence that is 
promising.
The business manager has opened correspondence 
with several northern firms in respect to costuming 
the play. The stage appointments have been con
sidered, and the manager is making arrangements 
for a sysplementary equipment. Mr. Young sug
gested that an early provision be made concerning 
the music, which he desired should be in harmony 
with the time and the nature of the play. Every 
member of the Curtain Club is well pleased with 
its progress. Such a quick, earnest, stable organiza
tion was hardly expected. It is good evidence of the 
earnestness of the members and the need which has 
long been felt for such a club.
ANSWER TO LAST WEEKS PROBLEM.
The problem of the sinking fund, as published last 
week, can be worked by the Law of Chance. Let Y 
equal the number of possible questions that could 
be asked in one of Prof. Jamess Chemistry exams. 
Let X equal the time it takes the chemical knowl
edge to be stored up in the students mind with in
terest and compounded daily. The question then 
is reduced to: How long will it take to store up 
enough knowledge so that when the exam, becomes 
due, the two amounts will be equal and the payment 
settled?
Consider the personal equation of section C to be
Gc nR3G IAnAD vcW
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
sdCgi Tv iwmg y Dkv
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores of s
GEO, K, STEVENSON  CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
y sRu OAaORa Guvn F
 WHERE THE BUNCH GOES g
^ And where you can always get first-class work. ^
V uB hN pg rieB ni9Pifew9iB V
g CRAIG AND FORBES X
1 W. S. BROWN I
523 Wood St., Pittsburg
F 1tDGB tsWRayB AsuWRsc 1vvCGB F 
 vh AWW ?cDCGN A vLnWRsR WcDR 8 % vh cR ADC avWWRa G?AsRGN %
vwTVTWWTywTWWTyTWwTWWTWTWWVyT
1 ARTISTS MATERIAL
F vh RpRay CRGacnscvD
1 B. K. ELLIOTT COMPANY
3. 108 Sixth Street (Bessemer BIdg.) Pittsburg.
* PICTURE FRAMING S
D AMATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING 
ft CUT FLOWERS ftS IB. -WSlvdUTH Z
$ 114 Atwood Street, bet. Fifth and Forbes 
The Standard of Excellence - ;  ' . -J* M"' *' f <"? J
L g9C9gMJ3T
Candies and Ice Cream Soda Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.. 
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

Mi Mf-Mfl15
4 1-3 hours and the possible number of chances that 
such a rare happening might occur, to be one out of
56,000. Y=infinity.................H Y P.
infinity
Then X =----------------1- 4 1-3
560001
NINETEEN THIRTEEN
Professor GibbsThe atmospheric pressure here 
is about 14 lbs. per square inch.
DankNo iSir, its 14.1 lbs.
Professor Gibbs had considerable trouble with his 
apparatus during lecture, Monday evening, his ex
planation was: Gentlemen you know I lend these
things occasionally. On going to his lantern and 
finding things somewhat out of order he said: Has
Professor Hokanson been running this machine?
Were going to elect Dank to the position of orade 
of 13.
Professor HokansonWhat do we put in the pud
dle furnace along with cast iron.
Bright PupilOxide of iron, a little Hamerschlag.
GROVE CITY GAME.
Something happened to Grove Citys championship 
aspirations, when they played here on the second. 
They had not previously lost a game this season, 
but took a very decisive one from our team. Judg
ing from the form in the second half, the team can 
play as well under A. A. Y. rules as the Intercolle
giate. Harrison and Browji played the best basket 
ball we have seen this year. Leety sprained his 
ankle, and left the game. In all probability he will 
be out the rest of the season. Casey shifted to 
Leetys position and Dolin relieved Casey at center.
Tech66 Grove City28
Harrison ...............................F................................... Acher
Brown ...................................F......................Crider, Kelley
Casey, Dolin........................C...................................... Lace
Leety, Casey........................G................................... Marks
Agnew ...................................G...................................... Lock
z A T E K
CHOCOLATE
BILLETS
,5o PfeleT 9 9fM digPPeJ 
T.99wm 7eM7ewU T9MfJ lm90
l9Mgwe w9 wme P9rJ1Rs 
A nv?Rs htWW
PENNSYLVANiA CHOCOLATE CO., PITTSBURGH
A, G. SPALDING & BUGS, J
The Largest Manufacturers in the ^ 
World of Implements & Uniforms g 
=for - = *
g BASE BALL, LAWN TENNIS, I 
Basket Ball, Golf, Track and $ 
Field Sports*
Spaldings New Spring and Summer 1909 Catalogne, completi edition, 144 pages; atout 2000 Illustrations. Copy mailed to any address on receipt of request.
AN 1N GnAWCcD1 H OavGN
439 Wood Street Pittsburg, Pa.
o For the real TECH Pesants of Carnegie Plaid o
= Beeken I*5 "Tech" Pillows
*
GLEE CLUB REHEARSALS.
The Glee Club will continue to hold its regular 
rehearsals.
Wednesday 5:30, for day men.
Wednesday 6:30, for night men.
Sunday 2:30, for both men.
Glee and Mandolin Club Concert, Carnegie Music 
Hall, February 19.
Come out every one for the championship basket 
ball game to=morrow night. This game may decide 
the winner.

---------------------------------------------------

i6THE TARTAN
C. EISNIER
AascGsc hWvacGs
haRGu ts hWvRaG 
ADC hWvaAW CRGc1DG
SPECIALTIES
4 , , 
w ON H ON Y
Why not get the New Rain Coat before 
Spring rains come. 
New Spring Rain Coats ready to select 
from $10.00 to $30.00.
5,oq ne A7ereB RgTw RJ
Bell Phone 83 Hiland
4*
FToV/ers
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con
sistent with the best quality.
AN N GLcsu
jjj 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA.
13c "2"o-u. ^n.o-w
that we print more books than any firm in the East End ?........................................
X)o "2"o-u. !ES::n.o-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine Printing?................................................ .
X>o "2"o-va. 3tno-w
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPKE 3z. EITSCHEE,
6117*6119 Kirkwood Street
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
*
**K-*K-ttKFKFKF*KFKF*KF
I MELLON NATIONAL BANK 
i 514 SMITHFI ELD STREET
409 FIFTH AVENUE g
CAPITAL - - - $4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF. { j ..  
: ' STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 41 MILLIONS
| BOGGS & BUHL
?04<C^4<*4<*4^3^$4^$4^04^4'4- *
j JHE VPPublishe
BALL ROOM HAS A 
CUSHIONED FLOOR 
PERFECT for DANCING
PRIVATE DINING ROOM 
FOR CLASS DINNERS 
IS A DREAM
I Kuhns in the Rittenhouse |
* *1 "I "T*?* I*** 4* *ii* ** ***,*i,*S0 ****
0 KFXBEST EQUIPMENT 
_  
^ Established 1893 Both Phones J
wwWTwvyvwwwTvwTWTyTyTvTyTVTyvWT
X EVERYTHING IN m
Highest 
Grade 
Work 
Prompt 
Service
SHOES
3 We make a specialty of a Storm tan in
$ several styles for young men. at $4.00.? / t M - * f  i * 
HANAN & BAKER SHOE CO.
435-37 WOOD STREET .
