OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 
AT GIRLS' DORMS
4-6 P. M.armate ITattan
FOOTBALL 3 P. M. SAT. 
TECH FIELD 
YALE RETURNS
VOL. XVII. NO. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1922
MUSICAL CLUBS 
ORGANIZE FOR 
CURRENT YEAR
Signor Scalzo Will Again 
Lead the Mandolin Section; 
Negotiations Under Way 
to Secure Glee Club Director
WANTED FOR TARTAN STAFF 
STUDENTS FROM TWO LOWER 
CLASSES IN ALL DIVISIONS
MANY MEN NEEDED
The biggest non-athletic activity on 
the campus will get under way at 
2:30 Sunday afternoon, October 1.
At a banquet held at the Rittenhouse last spring L. R. Turcotte was 
unanimously elected manager of the 
clubs to act during the summer and 
early fall. The election of officers 
for this season will be held as soon 
as the try-outs determine the person
nel of the clubs. . This gives the new 
men a rare opportunity toexpress 
their wish as to who will serve as 
their executives.
The trips contemplated for this sea
son will quite likely be more exten
sive and interesting than those of 
last year, which byt the way were the 
best the clubs have had in several 
seasons. Aside from the local con
certs the clubs also appeared in Massilton, Akron, Painesville and Cleve
land, Ohio; Erie and Corry, Pa., were 
also visited. A dozen concerts were 
given throughout the year. These 
were usually followed by dances in 
honor of the clubs.
In addition to the personal pleas
ure derived through membership in 
this organization, let us think for a 
moment of the fine opportunity the 
clubs have to do some real advertising for Carnegie Tech.
Cleveland, Erie, and in fact all the 
towns visited last season rated our 
clubs as the best collegiate organiza
tion of its kind that had endeavored 
to entertain them.
Signor Scalzo will again lead the 
Mandolin section. He is a man of 
wide experience, having an exception
ally fine reputation, and ability to di
rect which makes work under his 
.baton very enjoyable. Bring out your 
mandolins, guitars,' banjos, violins, 
cellos, and horns.
The name of the Glee Club director 
, <*.annot yet be disclosed. Negotiations 
are being carried on with one of the 
biggest men in Pittsburgh musical 
circles.
Those wishing to try out for the 
Mandolin 'Club are to meet in the 
Union while those interested in 
"Continued on Page Two.)
New men, especially from the two 
lower classes are wanted for work in 
the Business andj Editorial depart
ments of the Carnegie Tartan. Those 
men who try out for positions on the 
staff in their Plebe year have an ex
cellent chance of becoming Business 
Manager or Editor-in-Chief before 
they graduate.
In addition to the experience one 
obtains in being in close touch with 
the publication of a college weekly 
there is a monetary reward to look 
forward to. The upper positions on 
the staff carry with them remunera
tion for good work on the papei*.
Those who feel that they have a 
little ability along the line of news
paper work get in touch with some
one at the. Carnegie Tartan office 
either from 12:00 to 1:00 P. M. on 
Tuesdays or 11:30 to 1:00 P. M. on 
Wednesdays. The office is located in 
Room 5A Industries, directly across 
from the Industries Club Room.
THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
BEGINS TUES., OCT. 3
Year Book Will be Sold Un
der Same Conditions as 
Those of Last Year
Sophs Win Over Plebes 
In Inter-Class Contest
Prof. Leeds and Dean KirkPatrick Were Officials
The class contests held last Tues
day by the Sophs and Plebes resulted 
in an overwhelming victory for the 
'Sophs. The final score, 30 to 5, was 
not, however, indicative of the fierce
ness of the struggle for the suprema
cy of the day.
The Plebes won the first contest, 
the lightweight wrestling match when 
Plebe Mills easily downed Uji repre
senting the Sophs. In the boxing 
matches the Plebes were no match 
for the fast Sophs. The lightweight 
boxers, Whitman for the Sophs and 
Battaglia for the Plebes, put up a hot 
scrap. Whitman gained the decision, 
but both were well fagged at the end 
of the bout. The heavyweight box
ers, Kallfelz and Wilkins staged a 
fast fight. Kallfelz rained blows on 
Wilkins so fast that the plucky Plebe 
could offer little defense and he was 
soon bleeding on the face.. The offi
cial, Prof. Leeds and Dean Kirkpat
ricks stopped the bout at the end of 
the fourth round and gave Kallfelz 
the decision.
The next scheduled contest, the tugof-war certainly provided the crowd 
with plenty of amusement as the rope 
used could not withstand the strain 
and the opposing teams were thrown 
into heaps four successive times as 
the rope broke. Even doubling the 
rope proved to be of no avail so this 
event was cancelled. It was reported 
that both the Plebes and the Sophs 
'had tied their ends of the rope to 
fence pasts surrounding the field. If 
it had not been for the breaking of 
the rope we should probably have 
viewed some interesting tugging.
The heavy weight wrestling match, 
by Chelden of the 'Sophs and Wilson 
of the Plebes resulted in another Soph 
victory. Following this match came 
the headliner of the day, the tie-up. 
With fifty-one to a side the classes 
(Continued on Page Three)
The Thistle is the annual publica
tion of the students at Carnegie In
stitute of Technology. The book this 
year is to be an exceptionally fine 
college annual, deserving the support 
of each student. The Thistle Board 
is composed of representatives from 
all Junior classes elected to do the 
work representing the entire school. 
A large amount of work and time is 
necessary in preparing a good book. 
The work of the Board would be grea t
ly lessened if the student body would 
co-operate in purchasing receipts ear
ly in the year.
On Tuesday, October third, and run
ning until 4:30 Friday, October sixth, 
a subscription campaign will be held 
throughout the entire college. School 
Spirit is the faithful upholding of all 
student activities. Let us all express 
our school spirit by supporting the 
work of the board and subscribing 
early.
This year's Thistle will sell for 
$4.50, all or part of which can be 
paid at the time of purchase. An a 
special inducement to secure full pay
ment, the board is again offering to 
place the name of the purchaser in 
gold leaf on the cover of the book.
To the new students it might be 
well to know something more about 
the book. The 1923 Thistle will be 
made of genuine leather binding, giv
ing the book a quality that will last. 
Pictures are tlio greatest means .of 
recollection to the college graduate. 
These pictures and detailed write-ups 
of all events on the campus, will be 
sought for more this year than in any 
previous year.
The 1923 Thistle needs your sup
port to make the college year book 
worthy of Carnegie Tech.
BRUMBAUGH SCORING AGAINST WAYNESBURGCARNEGIE GRIDDERS START 
SEASON WITH 54-0 VICTORY 
OVER WAYNESBURG COLLEGE
Y. M .C. A. WORK 
DEVELOPED FOR 
PRACTICAL HELP
First Year ot Service at Car
negie Proves Worth of 
Organization. New Lines 
of Service Promoted
T! DEAN BOSSANGE 
iGIVES RECEPTION
To evei-y. student who obtained ! yi /-^ -p^ OTTTT\PlVT'TnrOR STUDEN1S
 STUDENTS REQUESTED TO 
REPORT SUMMER WORK 
TO EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
GUIDES FRESHMEN
FIRST SCIENCE ASSEMBLY 
HELD FOR FRESHMEN, WED.
Elections at Ind. Assembly
Every member of the College of In
dustries is requested to be present at 
the General Assembly meeting on 
Wednesday at 11:30 in Room 104. By 
special permission of the Student 
Council, there will be held at the 
same meeting tihe nomination and 
election of the President of Industries 
Assembly and member of the 'Student 
Activities Board. This is an import
ant meeting and a good attendance 
is requested.
The first Science assembly was held 
in room 209 last Wednesday, Tucker 
Ames presiding. The opening meet
ing was one that no Plebe could af
ford to miss, as it was given over 
largely to enlightening them on var
ious matters pertinent to their wellfare at Carnegie Tech. Due to the 
Vigilance of . the Sophomores, how
ever, they all dutifully attended. Mu
sic was furnished by the same trio 
who entertained so well at last years 
assemblies. After the Plebes had dem
onstrated their singing and cheering 
abilities, the speakers were introduced.
The principal speakers were Acting 
President Baker, Director Mott, and 
Mr. Woods. Dr. Baker welcomed the 
new men, and assured them of the in
terest of the faculty in them and of 
its desire than all should complete 
a successful college career. Director 
Mott pointed out to them the great 
difference between high and prepara
tory schools, and institutions of high
er learning, and emphasized the neces
sity for a rapid and satisfactory read
justment of attitude and methods of 
work to suit the new conditions. Col
lege discipline, he explained, must be 
more rigorous, and scholastic stand
ards higher than in the schools from 
which the most of them have come. 
The chief difficulty with most Fresh
men who fail, he stated, is simply in 
not knowing how to study. He then 
explained the marking system, the 
method of handling absences, and simlar practical details, recommending 
the White Book for reference.
Mr. Woods, who is a member of a 
Pittsburgh firm of architects and hold
er of an admirable war record, spoke 
(Continued on Page Two.)
As the result of a request of the 
Cainegie Institute of Technology 
Student 'Council in the spring of 1921, 
and upon the approval of the Presi
dent and Executive Board of the In
stitute,. the Young Mens Christian 
Association of Pittsburgh established 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Branch Y. M. 1C. A. at the opening 
of the school year in September, 
1921.
While the administration of the as
sociation is in the hands of men who 
are. members of Evangelical churches, 
the object of the student association 
is to serve the men of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, regardless 
of creed in every possible, helpful 
and radical way; and to surround 
the students with such influences as 
shall help) them to live clean lives 
and to lead them into active church 
relationships according to their 
faiths. The object is further to pro
mote fellowship and aggressive 
Christian work by and for the stu
dents and to train members and 
others for lives of services for their 
fellowmen.
The Student Association at Carne
gie Institute of Technology is a 
branch of the Y. M. C. A. of Pitts
burgh. An executive secretary is in 
charge of the work. There is an ad
visory board and a committee of 
management consisting of members 
of the faculty, alumni and student 
body which sustain advisory rela(Continued On Page Two.)
Physics Colloquium Holds 
First Meeting of Year
?I* summer employment through the 
I* Employment Bureau, please make 
v your report before Ostober 1. * 
v In order that the bureau, may be 
?J* of service to you, it is necessary 
v that you co-operate and furnish * 
** us with the above information.
 Do not delay. Make your re* 
v port at once.
I* A. J. iI-IYND, ?:<
v Assistant. *
* *
Freshmen From the Various 
Departments Produce Play
lets. Music Given by Music 
Dept. Orchestra
MANY CARNEGIE MEN 
GO TO R.O.T.C. CAMP
Sports Share Time With 
Work at Summer 
Encampment
ALL MASTER MASONS TO
REGISTER IMMEDIATELY
It is desired that every Master 
Mason on the campus send in his 
name, Pittsburgh address, home lodge 
and number to Box 173 C. I. T. Postoffice. This information is desired in 
order that certain records may be 
completed.
The opening meeting of the PhysiC3 
Colloquium was held in Room 113, 
Science, on last Friday afternoon at 
4:30 p. m.
Prof. I-Iower stated the purpose of 
the Physics Colloquium. An effort is 
made to follow the course of discov
ery of physical phenomena as far as 
the limited time allows. He gave a 
cordial invitation to the students of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
to avail themselves of the benefits of 
these weekly meetings.
Prof. T. C. MacKay gave an ac
count of some of the phenonema en
countered in the manufacture of 
thermionic vacuum tubes. These 
tubes are chiefly used as rectifiers 
of alternating electric currents and 
in the amplification and modulation 
of the high frequency currents used 
in radio work. - The interest in these 
wonderful tubes is rapidly increasing.
In Friday, September 29, Mr. R. W. 
Boreman will give a preliminary ac
count of work being done at the East
man Kodak Company in explaining 
(Continued on Page Two.)
INDUSTRIES SOPHOMORES
HOLD FIRST MEETING
The Industries Sophs made an early 
start in reorganizing for the coming 
year by holding their first meeting 
Thursday the twenty-first. The meet
ing was short and snappy and a good 
percentage of the class was on hand. 
President Dempsey outlined some of 
the Sophs duties in regards to Plebe 
regulations yid appointed the Regu
lations Committee of three members, 
Dempsey, Wessell and Andrews, A 
committee of three; Hughes,- chair
man; Brooks and Kelly, was appoint
ed to draw up plans for a smoker to 
be given for the Plebes in the near 
future. The smoker promises to be 
a big. success as the Soph plan to se
cure a well-known Pittsburgh humor
ist to provide the evening entertain
ment. Other routine matters were 
taken up and the meeting adjourned.
While the Sophs have not complet
ed all plans for the coming year, the 
program alreadj' scheduled will pro
vide the members of the class with 
much of interest.
Camp1 A. A. Humphreys is located 
on the bank of! the Potomac River 
about thirty miles down the river 
from Washington, D. C. It is one of 
the relics of they.World War which 
has been made a permanent Army 
po^t The Onn;n.;>! practically aband
oned now except for the small section 
occupied by the 13th and 17th Engi
neers and Salvaging Companies are 
pulling down the old barracks and 
salvaging the lumber tlifit was used 
in their construction. The Govern
ment has a reservation there of yovoral thousand acres, a part of which 
was the old Fairfax estate and which 
borders on the Mount Vernon estate. 
The ruins of the old Fairfax mansion 
is on the camp grounds and In tact 
the whole Government reservation is 
full of places that are ofhistorical In 
terest.
Every year the Engineor R. O. T. C, 
students from the Third Corps Area 
go to this camp to receive the Army 
training. This Inst summer eighteen 
men went from Carnegie Tech. The 
training was very intensive as an at
tempt is mado to give the students 
all the practical knowledge of war
fare possible In the six weeks allowed 
for camp. About five weeks were 
spent oi^ tflie work that Engineer 
troops do on the actual battlefield 
such as the laying out of fortifica
tions, trenches, barb-whe entangle
ments, location of machine guns and 
automatic rifles, military reconnalsanee, building of military bridges on 
land and water, military railroads, 
and many other things that it is im
portant that an officer in the field 
should know. Then one week was 
spent on the rifle range where the 
Regular Army course is fired and 
every student fires for record. The 
Carnegie Tech men did not show up 
so well on the range because we have 
no range here and most other colleges 
in this Corps Area have ranges.
However all the time is not spent 
at work. On Wednesday afternoon 
of each week the time was devoted 
to athletics such as boxing, wrest
ling, baseball and tennis. There was 
inter-company baseball, tennis and in 
the last week of camp there was a 
field meet between the companies 
with trophies going to the high point 
(Continued on Page Two.)
DANCE FOLLOWS
Radio Club Meets Tonight
The Radio Club of Carnegie Tech 
will hold its first meeting of this year 
tonight. The meeting will be held in 
Room 104, Machinery Hall, at 7:30 
P. M.
This meeting will inaugurate the 
beginning of the 1922-23 radio activi
ties of the students of Carnegie Tech. 
Radio convmunication has received a 
remarkable impetus in the last few 
years. It is the purpose of this or
ganization to bring the latest develop
ments before its members. Extensive 
plans are being made for programs 
to be held this year, ap well as the 
application of the latest radio devel
opments to the Radio Clubs outfit 
in their club room.
Any student of Carnegie Tech Is 
eligible for membership, their appli
cation being referred to the member
ship committee.
Freshmen are urged to attend this 
meeting, as it will introduce them to 
one form of school activity, as well 
as give them a better knowledge of 
radio communication and engineer
ing.
Doan Bossange, Director of the Colloge of Fine Arts, gave his annual re
ception to the students and faculty 
of the College last Friday night, in the 
Exhibition Room.
The early part of tho evening was 
devoted to a social hour and this was 
followed by a dance. The Fresh
men of each department give a small 
entertainment at this reception each 
year, and somo amusing things are 
put on.
Tho Department of Applied Arts, 
and the Drama Dopartnmti. gave two 
good playlets. v
Tho Dramatists gavo'a silent play
let on the sea. Brick slioros, brick: 
shores, brick and and a human light
house furnished the setting for, a 
bhrllioiS Tho villain, contrary to all 
othlcs, kills tho heroine, and Is In turn 
swamped by tho angry sons, In tho 
person of two girls.
Tho Applied Arts story was a love 
tale of the Orient. The Slielk, tho 
Vampire, and tho hero and heroine 
furnished plenty of action which was 
([ulto amusing. A camol provod to bo 
tho stroko of genius. This fine ani
mal not only furnished a complete 
meal,' with catsup, salt and popper, but 
saves tho ILfo of tho heroine by a. 
timely hi to in tho climax.
The other departments put on somo 
good things also.
After the show refreshments were 
sorved, and an orchestra from tho 
Mii.sic Department furnished tho molodlos for a dance.
Plaid Machine Displays Superior 
Teamwork-Yellow Jackets Able 
to Advance Only Once 
Daring Game
NEW MEN SHOW UP WELL
MEETING OF Y.M.C.A. 
CABINET LAST FRI.
Students and Faculty Are 
Represented on Committees 
for Current Year
Football Specials Taken
Up by Student Council
Mr. Ii. K. Kirkpatrick, acting dean 
of men, mot with the Student Coun
cil. He wished to know if anything 
could be done by the Council in re
gard to restricting eampu# dance's 
such as football dances to Camegle 
students. He said that, it was 
the opinion of himself as well as 
other faculty members who had vis
ited other campuses that the dances 
conducted here were better than the 
usual college dance. It is his de
sire to keep it this way and he 
thought that by restricting the 
dances to students it could be eas
ily done. The matter was referred to 
the social committee for consideraPsychology may be rightat least one would judge so upon seeing how 
the crimson clad Carnegie Tech football artists steam rollered the heavy 
Waynesburg College team last Saturday afternoon to the melody of 54-0. 
The new Tech Field received its baptism of fire in a manner that presages 
many brilliant battles there in the future of this season as well'as many 
other seasons to come.
As regards the new field, it came fully up to expectations, as it furnished 
firm footholds to the fast running backs, as well as a soft cushion for the 
hard-buffeted players to fall upon, and thereby hold the injuries to the mini
mum. The Plaid warriors came out of the fray In just as good a shape
C.physically as they went into it, which 
in itself speaks well for Trainer Bert 
Munhall, as well as the splendid con
dition of tho field. This further gives 
"Wally Steffen a chance to work un
hampered for his greatest gamethat 
with Yale, this coming Saturday in 
Now Haven.
In all Justice to the fighting play
ers, brought to the Plaid backyard 
by Coach Wolf of Waynesburg, they 
wore no match for the vetoran team 
of Carnegie Tech, who were called 
upon to show nothing more than 
straight football, consisting entirely 
of end runs and line bucks. Robert
son and Wlerman ran ends at will, nl 
ways preceded by good interference, 
while Brumbaugh climbed through 
holes made by the Tartan forwards 
for gain upon gain. Rarely did ho 
fall, so well did tho lino In front of 
him hold and opr-n up gaping holes, 
through which, If needs bo, a. team 
of horses could have walked through.
Carnegie Tech showed tho founda
tions of a good team, but are sadly 
in nood of polishing up bol'oro the 
Yale game if a creditable showing Is 
to bo mado. Numerous fumbles 
marred tho smooth play, and pre
vented additional touchdowns, while 
poor passing by tho oonter on two )oconqlons hurt considerably. Those two 
passes coming as they did right to
gether, and Immediately upon Tay
lor's ontranco Into tho gsmn. was the 
only time'Carnegie Tech was' held 
and forced to punt. Thofoaitor, Tay
lor acquitted himself well, and 
showed that he fully deserved tho 
place of first substitute coutor. 
(Continued on Page Three.)
The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet met Fri
day to appoint chairmen for tho dif
ferent committees and to discuss 
plans ifor the coming year. These 
plans will bo presented for adoption 
to the Committee of Management 
next Tuesday night.
Tho following mon and faculty 
members woro appointed to tho com
mittee:' Bible StudyA. II. Anderson, chairman; Prof. Blalrsdell, Facul
ty Advisor. Church Relations 
Georgo Allison, chairman; Prol. Don 
nlsoh, Faculty Advisor. Foreign Stu 
dents  "Cy Hoonnlgor, chairman; 
Mr. Dlbblo, Faculty Advisor. Student 
ConferenceAl Irwin, chairman; 
Pror. Donnell, Faculty Advisor. New 
StudentsE. A. Brand, chairman; 
Acting Doan KlrlcpUtrlck, Faculty Ad
visor. Social Service'Hugh Sprinkle, 
chairman; Mr. Frick, Faculty Advi
sor. FinancialJack Franklin; chiilVman; Prof. Ambrose and Mr. Dlbblo,
Faculty1 Advisors. Social Activities...
Martin Rohrbach, chairman; Profs. 
Asho, Ellis, Kirkpatrick, Faculty Ad
visors. Publicity...Vic. Slromqulst,
chairman; Profs. Ellis and Asho, Fac
ulty Advisors.
Tho Oommittoo of Friendly Rela
tions of tho International V. M. 0. A. 
has a. small amount of money to be 
used in behalf of the needy European 
students In America, liolp will ho 
extended In the form of a loan with
out Interest and Is offered to stu
dents from tho war-stricken area of 
lOuropo, and those from tho Far East. 
Students desiring the loan should ap
ply at tho Deans Office or at I lie 
"Y office In the Industries Building.
The free swims will bogln next 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
DIRECTOR MORRIS SPEAKS 
AT INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
tion.
C. C. Brumbaugh was appointed to 
confer with Graduate Manager Haaren 
and a representative of the Penn
sylvania Railroad as to the best man
ner in which to handle special foot
ball trains to Little Washington and 
State College.
R. P. Patterson was appointed to 
have charge of General Assembly pro
grams for this school year.
J. T. Ames, Miss Grant and Brum
baugh, were appointed to look over 
the report of the Campus Week Com
mittee and make a condensed report 
to the Council.
Industries Assembly was granted 
special permission to receive nomina
tions for and hold election of Assem
bly President and Student Activities 
Board representative on Wednesday, 
Sopt. 27.
Tho Plebe Regulations Committee 
1 to be appointed this week by tho 
different college presidents.
ANNOUNCEMENT FOR REGIS
TRATION OF NIGHT 8TUDENTS
Night registration will take place 
on:
Wednesday, September 27th. 
Thursday, September 28th.
Friday, September 29th,
Registration will be held from 7:30 
P. M. to 10:30 P. M., on tho nightc 
signified above.
Tho first assembly of the Collogo of 
Industries was hold last Wodnosday 
for the primary purpose of helping 
the Plebes straighten out sbme of the 
difficulties encountered on entering 
the College.
Thorne, tho vice president of As
sembly acted as chairman and Intro
duced as tho first speaker Col. Brooks 
of the Military Department. Col. 
Brooks spoke for a few moments on 
the advisability of the new Plebes en
rolling in the R. O. T. C. unit at Tech 
and Introduced Col. Eric Fisher 
Woods who brought out the import
ance of military training to the fu
ture citi'/.ens. He spoke of the ne
cessity of national preparedness, but 
stressed the fact that military train
ing is a valuable training for one in(Continued on Page Three.)
Mens Dormitory
Council Electcd
Each Dormilory to Elect 
Officers
A Student Dormitory OouriGlI of five 
men was chosen by the momboru of 
tho men's dormitories at their meet
ing iu Room 104, College of Indus
tries, Wednesday evening, September 
20. Tho personnel of the council Is as 
follows: Win. M. Cummins, M. C. MeCarney, A. II. Anderson, J. W. Munford, C. C. Ragsdale.
Only Juniors and Seniors woro elect
ed to tho council because of their 
oldor and more experienced knowl
edge of affairs.
Mr. H. K. Kirkpatrick, Acting Dean 
of Mon, who conducted the meeting, 
gavo a brief resume of the ref orimi and 
improvements which have boon accom
plished and which are in the process 
of completion In government and man
agement of the mens dormitories. One 
of tho most Important changes In the 
dormltoiy system was the placing of 
Mrs. Johnson as Dormitory Matron. 
Mrs. Johnson, who li'aa had considera
ble experience In matters of this type, 
has her office In Room 202, Scobell 
Hall, where she will adjust all com
plaints and receive suggestions for 
improvements. Mrs. Johnson has sug
gested many innovations in the dorm(Continued on Page Two.)
Psychology Professor Elucidates
Upon Pea-Green Young Hopefuls
(Copyright by the International Bunk Association)
The Special Correspondent for tho Carnegie Tartan approached the great 
Psychology Professor with some timidity.
Pardon me, sir. he said hesitatingly, but may I occupy a moment of 
your valuable time? I have a question to ask you."
Well. pondered the Professor, as he polished his nose and blew his 
glasses, you have an honest face. Proceed." And he shifted his watch to 
Ills trousers pocket.
"The question, continued the reporter, shifting his own watch, Is mere
ly this. "What, In your opinion, is the degree of Intelligence of the new 
class at Carnegie Tech? And do you consider their chances of graduating 
from the institution to bo hotter than those of the proverbial snowball?"
"In answer to your first question, returned tho eminent statislclan, 
No.
"No what?" queried tho surprised reporter.
No, sir, throw back the Professor, as ho hurst into a run after a gal
loping eighty. Anti there you have It In a nutshell.
Pea-green Young Hopefuls.
Tho situation of tho entering class Is Indeed pathetic. Tho answer to 
tho well-known quostlon, What Is so raro as a Jay In June? might well bo 
"A jay In September. Well swear to tho truth of tho following on a stack 
of Bibles:
Tho school Is quite satisfactory, confided the Plebe, In conversation 
with the writer, "and really does very well. In fact, I am already much 
interested In student affairs. I. decided Lo run for the cross-country team, 
but upon reporting they roquested me to consider managing it Instead, and 
I have decided to accept the managers position! Can ya beat It? Solomon 
In all his glory wasnt a tenth as wise as somo of these youngsters fancy 
themselves.
The Sophs havent been unaware of It, either. The day of the class 
(Continued on Page Two)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1922
Carnegie liar-tan
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervisin of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN............................................................
TelephoneSclienley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND..................................................................
TelephoneSclienloy 9143
.... Business Manager
II. F. SIMPSON..........
HORTENSE PURDY ..
TelephoneSclienley 9079 
TelephoneSclienloy 9143
........ Associate Editor
........Associate Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
TelephoneHazel 9422
TelephoneSclienloy 2944
J. M. COOPER............
J. C. MAJOR ..............
TolophonoSchonley 8211
. Advertising Manager 
. Circulation Managor
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
P. C. McKoiizie, W. J. Bolton, L. HerUman, .T. A. Dougherty, M. S. 
Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattson, It. J. Kretici, F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIB UTOR8 
II. J. McCormick, J. A. Beino, L. D. Allshouse, E. C. Frazier, J. H.
Ferguson.__________________________________________________________________________
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaitenhauser, F. II. Allison, A. D. 
Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schuckor ami T. .T. Dempsey.________
ROAMINS],OFFICERS OF Y. M. C. A. CABINET
The Editor-In-Chief is responslble for the policy of this paper; ilio
Managing Editor for the make up._______________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All nows items must bo in the student 
postoillco before 4:30 Friday.______________________________________________________
Tartan Olllcc Room r.-A, Industries Building. Oillco hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.__________________________________________
THE SONG BOOK AGAIN
A song book is badly needed. There is at present no music 
available for any oi! our school songs. On several occasions there 
lias been request for music oJ: our popular airs. Recently a manu
facturing concern in the Bast broadcasted the college songs repre
sented by men in their employ. A Carnegie man secured the orches
tration at the last minute after much trouble. Words and music of 
all our songs should be possessed by every elan or other live Carnegie 
organization. Lets get a song book.
HELP THE RESERVES WIN
Next Saturday while the varsity are battling, with the Yale Bull
dogs, the Reserves will exchange punts with Wcstinghouse High, on 
Tech Field. Coach Beelers men have worked hard for this game 
and deserve the support of the student body. Many alumni will be 
there; so lets show somo Carnegie spirit.
FOOTBALL DANCES FOR STUDENTS
At tho last football, dance many outsiders were in evidence 
these dances are for Carnegie students; not a public free for all. 
The only identification'is the registration card; therefore, bring it 
with you and help the committee mnlce these dances what they arc 
intended to bo.
ALUMNI! GET BEHIND YOUR ALMA MATER
Alumni I Carnegie needs your support now more than ever 
before, becanso the president is a critical time of our institution. Ill 
..Carnegie is to carry out the ideals of its founder, it must go on as 
in the pastwhat the future holds we do not know; but our past 
and present status among American educational institutions ranks 
high. As Carnogio Tech wo have won wide recognition -so shall we 
become world famous, iJ! we continuo the high grade specialized 
training under the banner of tho plaid,
THE BAND IN KILTS
Wouldnt the bund look good in kilts? Ol course they would. 
Wo have prospects for the best band wo luive over had this year, 
and in kills they would be a sensation ol! tho season. Tho cost is tho 
stumbling block ; but there must bo some mtoans of raising tho monoy, 
and the Carnegie Tartan will help spread the propaganda, if somo 
organization will work out a plan of financing the venture,
OHEER THE TEAM
Tho cheer leading at tho gann last Saturday was well organized, 
but the students did not respond. We must hold up our reputation 
l'or good cheering and it is therefore the duty of every student to 
join, in every yell or song. Cheering is what makes a college game 
more interesting than a professional football game; also it certainly 
helps the team, win, which is most important.
THE WHITE BOOK
What is tho White Book? This question is often asked by the 
students who happen to hear reference to this pamphletmany of 
tho under-classmen do not become familiar with it before they are 
reprimanded for violating some rule contained therein. This book 
should be placed in the hands of every student because it will enable 
them to learn the rules of the institution and save much misunder
standing. If this book is not available for every one, the next best 
thing is for every undergraduate to securo the use of a copy from the 
Dean of Men and read it.
Student Calendar
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30
FootballYale versus Carnegie.......................................New Haven, Conn.
DanceFootball Dance (tentative).........................8:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7
FootballGeneva versus Carnegie .............................................. Pittsburgh
DanceFootball Dance (tentative).........................8:30, Carnegie Union
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11
General Student Assembly..................................................11:30, Music Hall
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14
FootballWash-JefL! versus Carnegie................................Washington, Pa.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21
FootballThiel College versus Carnegie.....................................Pittsburgh
Cross-Countiy MeetU. of Cinn. versus Carnegie...........................There
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25
Cross-CountryAllegheny College versus Carnegie.............Pittsburgh
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28 
FootballGrove City versus Carnegie.........................................Pittsburgh
I-Iave heard more than one person 
criticise the Carnegie Tartan for a 
lack of personal Interest in the stu
dents. This criticism is merited to 
a certain; extent, hut no remedies 
have boon suggested.
Roamer has hit upon a plan which 
would go a long way to bring up tho 
personal tone, and at the same time 
would be of value to tho students. 
The plan is this:
Jimtead of allowing the Roamins to 
bo the opinions, suggestions, and 
ideas of one man,,let's make it a sort 
of informal exchange column where 
the students of Carnegie Tech can 
exchange their view and ideas.
You've all road tho Pittsburgh Dis
patch at somo time, and probably 
have noticed the Town Tattler Col
umn. Well, that's what we want.
Without changing the name we can 
change the Roamins from a one man 
col tun n to one where every single 
student can express his opinions.
Roamer will act as ongineer and see 
that all the letter are given consid
eration.
How doe that sound?
If you like the idea, send in a let
ter saying so, and woll start things 
going. If you dont, send in a letter 
saying why not. And if you have a 
better plan of your own which will 
increase the personal tone of tho 
paper, spring it.
Put lotters in school post office ad
dressed Roamer, Caro of Carnegie 
Tartan.
ALLAN C. CRAGOC.F. BORERS PRES/DE.NTH-O.SPRINKLE 
WC PRE.S.
Griggs and Parrel! Captur 
Hatchet at Burial Ceremony
The two braves stalked solemnly 
toward the open grave, bearing the 
bloody hatchet between them. Care
fully they laid it in its last resting 
place and stepped back, proudly si
lent. The lights' /lashed off.
Instantly the air was rent with yells 
far surpassing in hoiTor those of tho 
braves, arid a dozen dark figures 
pounced upon the grave. Furiously 
the ghouls dug, pushing and quarrel
ing among themselves. 'Suddenly they 
straightening up. O siiarp struggle 
took place and then one broke from 
the crowd and sped away toward the 
field house. The howling mob start
ed close on his heels. Another strug
gle took place.
Another figure streaked through the 
night, headed toward the tennis courts, 
a string of pursuers lose behind. 
Soon they passed from sight, and the 
spectators left.
The next morning, Tommy Griggs 
proudly displayed half of the hatchet 
up at the house of the Woodlawr. club, 
and Farrell was strutting around the 
school with the other half hanging 
at his belt.
It is inconceivable that they found 
the two parts. It is inconceivable that 
they were given them. The deduc
tion is obvious. Tho only question re
maining is which one was it who ran 
up toward the tennis courts, and
Inter-Frat Council
Holds Elections
MENS DORMITORY
COUNCIL ELECTED
ARTS ASSEMBLY
The first assembly for the College 
of Fine Arts was held Wednesday, in 
the Little Theater, at 11:30.
Dean Bossange talked to the Plebes 
a short time on discipline, and wel
comed the Plebes into the College of 
Fine Arts. Dean Bossange introduced 
Dr. Balsor, acting President of the In
stitute. He gave them a very cordial 
welcoming, wishing each Plebe the 
best success.
APPLICATIONS FOR POSTOFFICE WORK pURING VACA
TION SHOULD BE FILED
DRAMA DEPARTMENT WILL
PRESENT FIRST PLAY OCT. 11
On September tenth the directors 
of the Drama Department assembled 
to judge the anxious aspirants.
They are fortunato in having Mr.
Stevens liore to work with ^tliem.
Last year his work on the Missouri 
p'ageant kept him; away from school 
a month or more.
Mr. Ouborno Is alno liore. His Play ",hI<l e escaped by tile field House, 
Shore Leave is enjoying a fruitful 
run in New York.
Mr. Wallace Is back after a sum
mer course at 'Columbia. Mr. Wal
lace believes that one is never too 
old to learnso ho tried his meth
ods on tho Columbia flappers.
Mr. Viehman is back after a de
lightful summer spent in California.
While in California lie .taught daniOing as a summer course In tho Uni
versity.
Mr. WyclcofC spent a few months 
in the beautiful New England States.
Ho is looking real good and promises 
much work for tho now men.
Tho faculty has two new members:
Mrs. Pauline Potter Stewart and Mr.
Bert Sahourin. Mrs. Stewart is tho 
now diction teacher and she comes 
well recommended Tho students 
luivo placed tlioir utmost confidence 
In Mrs. Stewart and they ifool suro 
ho will have something for them.
Mr. Sabourln will bo tho now toch 
nLeal director.
As for t.lio student.sEddio Rold 
will ho tho loading man for tho 
Cleveland playhouse, illo will open 
In tho noar future in Tho Now 
York Idoa. and wo aro suro Eddie 
will make good. Purdotto Kupp'es and 
Harold Shauglmossoy opened at Buf
falo In Mr. B. Idon Pnynotv Dolly 
Jordan last Monday night, They 
play In Cleveland tho week of Sep
tember 25 and then open in Nov/
York. Larry Paquin is a. professor of 
public speaking and play coach at 
Miami College, and ho also spend; 
somo of his spare ttmo at tho Play
house in Cincinnat i whoro Dave Mudgott is located. Arthur Lubln is ro 
hearsing a show in Now York. Mary 
Lissfolt is In a vaudovlllo sketch.
Bill Beyer is playing around in Eu
rope, probably hunting material for 
a now play. Eunice Osborne, Adel
aide Ziele and Grayco Searles are al
no in New York.
Tho first play In tho Little Theater 
will open October eleventh. It is 
Dumas Marriage of Convenience 
and it will be very humorous, consid
ering it is being directed by Mr. Os
borne. Work on the scenery and 
costumes is well under way and the 
play is now in rigid rehearsal.
Humbert Named Pres, for 
Coming Year
Tho Inter-Fraternity Council held 
its first meeting last Saturday morn
ing at 10.30 a. in. There were thir
teen voting fraternities and four non
voting fraternities represented.
The meeting was called to order by 
R. II. I-Inmbert, last year's secretary 
and treasurer, and the minutes from 
tho last meeting last year were read 
and approved. Officers for this year 
were elected and the results are as 
follows: President, R. PI. Humbert;
vice president, T. M. McDowell; sec
retary and treasurer, H. C. Kreisle.
After Lhe election of officers the 
meeting was turned over to new busi
ness. The Freshman Rushing Rules 
which are in effect this year were dis
cussed to some extent. A committee 
was appointed to rewrite certain parts 
of the rules, not changing their mean
ing, but making them more clear to 
those which they affect.
Y. M. C. A. WORK DEVELOPED
FOR PRACTICAL HELP
Tho Student Employment Bureau 
announces that tho Jobs which have 
been filled by students desiring part 
time work have all been taken and 
that tho only prospects are those of 
clerking in department stores on Sat
urdays. Anyone interested is urged 
to call at tho employment oflico in 
tho near future.
The Christmas vacation positions 
will bo taken care of through this 
bureau and it will bo able to accom
modate applications for two hundred 
and fifty postofllco jobs.
1 FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
A man once said to me: Get the
Truth.
A school is as great as its achieve
ments. Brick, cement, equipment, fac
ulty, students spiritall of those go 
down as necessary in making a school. 
But, to these must be added achlvement in order to make a truly great 
school.
Achievement may be alumni work, 
faculty work, student work, ideas 
broadcasted, and so forth. To reach 
the lime light of success, one must 
doperformact. Plans and thoughts 
alone amount to nothingthey must 
be put to a practical and beneficial 
use.
Carnegie Tech is a great school. 
Not a single student, alumni, faculty, 
or trustee will deny that fact. More, 
every single one of us are willing and 
want to sing that fact out to the 
world. But, there is a drawback. 
Very few of us know what these great 
achievements of Carnegie Tech are. 
Unknown to the most of us our alum
ni are holding down great positions
and doing big jobs. Unknown to the 
most of us our faculty are perform
ing great and useful experiments in 
our laboratories.
Therein creates a needa cryingneed for their publicity.
A man once said to me: Get the
truth, and everything else follows.
I know of a city that is doing things,, 
and whats more, they are not a bit 
backward in telling their story. Re
sult: The city, during the past
twenty years, has grown from 32,000- 
to more than 200,000. Why? Be
cause they believe in publicity.
So, this column is going to tell you 
about Carnegie Tech and her achieve
ments, in hopes that you will use it. 
in a manner that will bring fame and 
glory to your Alma Mater.
Yours for a better known CarnegieTech.
CORRECTION LAST ISSUE
The new Scholastic coaching * 
k plan mentioned in last weeks *> 
1 Tartan was originated by Prof. * 
- C. C. Leeds who should receive ? 
 full credit for the commendable ? 
 plan. *
1 *;*
POWERS OF DORMITORY 
COUNCIL ARE OUTLINED
MANY CARNEGIE MEN
AT R. O. T. C. CAMP
'Contlnuod From Pa^o Ono.) 
man of the meet and to tho school 
which scored tho highest number of 
points. Tho high point school this 
year was M. I. T. In additions to 
these sports there was horseback rid
ing and swimming. The other activ
ities of the Camp aro social and pub
lications. A dance was held every 
week and the Officers of tho Post gave 
a dance to tho R. O. T. C. men at their 
club house.
The only bad points about the camp 
were getting up in the morning and 
walking guard in the rain. The grub 
was very good with a few exceptions/ 
and nearly everyone gained in weightj
--------------------=-------------37MUSICAL CLUBS ORGANIZE
FOR CURRENT YEAR
New Fraternity Directory
NATIONAL FRATERNITIES
Fraternity. House. Telephone No.
Botu Sigma Rho11*10 Wlghtman Street.......................................................
Bota Thota PI5541) Forbes Street...................................................Haxol 8820
Delta Upsllonr*U2-l Liberty Avenue .............................................11 Hand 858
Kappa Sigma -015 Clyde Street....................................................Sehonloy !>-101
Pi Kappa Alpha4S07 Baum Boulevard...................................Sehenlev 1)285
Phi Epsilon Pi ...........................................................................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon1015 Forbes Street...............................Sohenloy !)2li
Sigma Nu1921 Forbes Street..................................................Sohenloy 59
Thota XI1902 Forbes Street ....................................................Sclienloy 9113
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Delta Epsilon Omega254 Bellefield Avenue.........................Sehenlev 9102
Delta Phi Delta ...........................................................................................
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro and Wightman ................................................
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and Wightman......................................................
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson Avenue...........................Sclionley9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett Street .......................................Hazel 939S
Square and Compass Club6604 Northumberland Street...........Hazel 930S
Tau Gamma Phi5064 Forbes Street .......................................Sclienley 9231
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes Street ............................................Hazel 9422
Xi Sigma Upsilon1510 Shady Avenue.............................................Hazel 9416
Continued From Page One, 
itory rooms and in the grounds, and 
she will continue to oversee affairs 
and suggest possible improvements.
Mr. R. V Davis, executive secreta
ry of the Carnegie Tech branch of the 
Y. M. C. A., said that liis organization 
would aid materially in improving the 
environment and living conditions in 
the men's dormitories by helping to 
establish club rooms there. The or
ganization of discussion groups in the 
dormitories is also a part, of the plans 
contemplated by Mr. Davis and his 
organization.
Doan Kirkpatrick, to whom much 
credit is due for tho improvements in 
the mens dormitory systom, said that 
In tho near future large rugs and now 
window curtains will ho Installed In 
the rooms. Tho kitchens, which 
have boon placed in the basements of 
two of tho buildings, will have their 
equipment completed by October 1.
Tho Student Dormitory Council, 
with tho advice or the Doan of Mon, 
will have supervision over tho con
duct. and activities of the men dormi
tory residents. Eaj<\h dormitory will 
organize immediately, electing a presdent, vice presidont, secretary and 
treasurer, and adopt a constitution. 
A system of competition among the 
various dormitories will be installed. 
This competition, which, will cover 
\ athletics, scholastic achievements, 
j and the matter of cleanliness, will be 
i very effective in bringing a better 
spirit and a healthier and more lioiue' like environment.
(Continued From Page One.) 
singing will undergo .their tests in 
the Exhibition Room of the Arts 
College at 2:30 Sunday afternoon. 
Those having insignias must tryout 
tlie same as the new men.
Every organization dormitory and 
fraternitjr should pick out their mu
sicians and send them to the clubs 
Join the musical clubs and boost 
Carnegie Tech.
PLEBES AND SOPHOMORES
NEEDED AS ASST. MANAGERS
Plebes and Sophomores desiring to 
try out for assistant teniiis managers 
should report to manager ICrisle at 
the courts any day at 4:30.
Several valuable article are held In 
tho Doan of Mens office, including a 
shirt and fountain pen. Loser may 
obtain lost article by giving descrip 
tlon.
(Continued From Page One.) 
tions with the under-graduate organi
zation. The committee of manage
ment consists of the following:
Prof. A. F.| Fink, Prof. A. H. Den
nison, Prof. B. C. Blaisdell, Prof. P. 
S. Donnell, Chairman; Prof. S. E. 
Dibble, treasurer; H. G. Nichol, re
cording secretary; Prof. R. K. Am
brose, Prof. H. K. Kirkpatrick, Prof. 
J. B. Ellis, Prof. E. M. Ashe, Prof. E. 
K. Strong, Jr., J. C. Hobbs, C. F. 
Bowers, H. O. Sprinkle.
Dean A. W. Tarbell, chairman Ad
visory Board.
Tho Student Cabinet composed of 
under-graduates directs the activities 
of the association. Following are 
members of the Cabinet:
C. F. Bowers president; I-I. O. 
Sprinkle, vice president; A. C. Crago, 
recording secretary; OP Ii. Anderson, 
Al. Irwin, E. A. Brand, F. C. Iloenninger, J. N. Franklin, M. N. Rohrback, Y. H. Stormquist. Rolin V. 
Davis, branch executive secretary; G. 
Allison advisor from the Committee 
of Management.
General membership is based on 
sympathy with the purpose to further 
the aims of the association. Such 
members as belong to Evangelical 
Churches are also voting members. 
A membership drive is held soon 
artor tho opening of school during 
which an attempt is made to get 
evory student and faculty member to 
join the association. There is no set 
membership fee but a subscription, 
tho amount of which Is optional, is 
expected to accompany each applica
tion.
The headquarters of the executive 
secretary and the center for Y 
work Is located on the campus on 
the first floor of the central building. 
A club room Is provided for study 
and social and committee meetings 
svhlch is available for any student or 
student organization. The associa
tion office is open at all times and 
the secretary is on the alert to ren
der any type ofi worthwhile service.
The association conducts Bible dis
cussion group's for Freshmen, Upper
classmen and fraternity groups and 
provides speakers for the weekly 
chapel meetings. It seeks* to serve 
and to co-operate with the locaf 
churches in every possible way, 
among other things directing students 
to churches of their choice, assistin; 
students to find church homes and 
arranging special Tech Nights in co
operation with churches of the vari
ous denominations. Co-operation is 
given to the several churches in their 
valuable work among groups of Car 
negie students.
Realizing the great need for guid
ance and for counsel during the early 
months of a college career, the Y 
has developed a Senior Counselor 
Plan. For every six Freshmen, one 
Senior Counselor is selected who ac
cepts this group as his particular 
charge during the first semester. On 
the evening of registration day a sup
per meeting is held when counselors 
and Freshmen are introduced. Fur
ther meetings of this group are held 
at monthly intervals. In addition; 
the Senior Counselors plan for week
ly gatherings of their groups during 
tho early weeks of me school year. 
Tills plan is designed to give the 
Freshmen the benefit of the advice
The President, Faculties and Dean 
of Men of C. I. T. grant to the Dormi
tory Council the following powers: 
The Council shall have jurisdiction, 
with the advice of the Dean of Men, 
over the conduct of tho students liv
ing in the dormitories, while in 
dormitories, streets, parks adjoining 
the mens dormitories, and shall en
deavor to maintain a high standard 
of honor and character.
It shall have the former penalties 
*liat the Council shall determine, with 
tlio exception of suspension and ex
pulsion; these may be recommended 
by the Council to the Dean of Men, 
and to be enforced mustbe approved 
and acted upon by the Dean of Men 
and the Faculty Discipline Commit
tee.
Open House at Girls 
Dorms. Sun. For Plebes
Senior Counselors Will Meet 
on Same Date to Discuss 
Future Plans
and experiences of a friendly upper 
classman, who is a man of character, 
to assist him in solving problems 
and avoiding mistakes which have 
so much to do with the successful 
living of student days.
Entertainments are held at regular 
intervals throughout the year. Thanks
giving and Christmas dinners are ar
ranged and invitations to private 
homes are provided for any of the 
students remaining m the city over 
the holidays. Free membership tick
ets in the city branches of the Pitts
burgh Association are tendered stu
dents away from home who find 
themselves unable to leave the city 
during the holidhy season. Weekly 
swims are conducted during the year 
in the Sclienley High School. Leaders 
aro provided for the Pittsburgli Y. 
M. C. A.s Camp for boys on Lake 
Erie.
Special hospitality is accorded stu
dents from foreign lands. A Discus
sion Group, to study the Christian re
ligion composed of foreign students 
registered at both Pitt and Tech 
meets weekly in the First Baptist 
Church. It is planned during the 
coming year to have these students 
entertained in the homes of members 
of the faculty and association staff 
and to introduce them to the church
es of the district.
Through the kindness of the Sixth 
United Presbyterian Church and the 
St. Peters Episcopal 'Church, a dele
gation of ten Tech Association men 
attended the Y. M. C. A. Student 
Conference at Silver Bay on Lake 
^George, N. Y. The conference which 
'lasted for ten days was highly in
spirational in character and gave the 
men a vision of the possibilities of 
Christian service to their fellow stu
dents. Delegates represented most of 
the colleges in the East. Strong 
friendships were formed, remarkable 
addresses were given by world Chris
tian leaders and the' general atmos
phere gave the delegates a splendid 
opportunity to settle life problems 
and strengthen religious convictions.
PSYCHOLOGY PROFESSOR ELUCIDATES
UPON PEA-GREEN YOUNG HOPEFULS
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
contests about ton of them marched tho fifty huskiest Plobes in tho outfit 
out of harms way until the victory for 25 had been secured. Betraying 
state soorots Why, certainly not! Always inform the sheep when tlie wool 
has been pulled over its eyes.
Pen-green? Well Now, Let Me Think.
And so after a dozen or so of such tales one despairs. Can it be that 
tho collego has actually come to such a pass? Are these the men who are 
to carry on the traditions of tho school? Dear, dear, the place is in an 
awful mess! Who would ever imagine that any collection of humans could 
ever be so stupid! But, here, wait a minute.
Wasnt it just three years ago that a Soph sent us for five feet of 
skirmish line, and we spent an.afternoon searching for it? Wasnt that the 
year they anticipated our banquet and got away with every thing but our 
nether garments?  Werent we the class who made Professor Trinks throw 
up his hands and holler Kamarad?
Tut, tilt! Just think of that! There may be a little hope for '26 
after all! ,
FIRST SC. ASSEMBLY
HELD FOR PLEBES WED.
All Senior Counselors are. re
quested to meet in Room 104, Indus
tries Building, on Sunday, October lr 
1922, at 3 P. M. The purpose of thismeeting is to discuss the plans for 
following up the system of advisors. 
Every Senior is urged to be present 
and therefore make it possible to 
carry out this plan as outlined by the 
Y. M. C. A.
The Plebes are to meet at the Cen
tral Building at 3:45 P. M. on the 
same date and from there the Senior 
Counselors will escort them to theGirls' Dorms. All the Girls Dorms 
will have open house from 4 to 0 
P. M.
The girls at the dormitories should 
show as much hospitality to the Plebe 
men as possible and an enjoyable af
fair will be assured.
Plebes! Dont forget the date; 
Sunday, October 1, 1922, at 3:45 P. M.
CAMPUS LIBRARY SCHEDULE
The Carnegie Tech Library, located 
in tlie former Y hut is open regu
larly from 9 A. M. to 9 P. M., during 
the first four days of each week and 
open from 9 A. M. to 5 P. M. on Fri
day and Saturday.
During the football season it will 
be open until six o'clock on Satur
days when games are played at home 
for the convenience of students wish
ing to borrow reserved books over 
Sunday.
All students are invited to use the 
library and to ask the library staff 
for any assistance in its use.
Books assigned for reference and 
study are there, ,as -well as a good 
general collection and a useful flle 
of current periodicals.
Most books are for use in the Li
brary only, but may bo borrowed over 
nlglit or over Sundays. There is a 
collection of standard Action which 
may be borrowed on a regular Car
negie Library Card.
The Ar.ts Library, located in the 
College of Fine Aits, is a branch of 
the general library and all Carnegie 
Tech students have the privilege of 
using it. Its collection is composed 
of material on Architecture, Painting, 
Illustration, Music and Scene Design.
RENAUDS
BAKERY & CONFECTIONERY 
specializing In fraternity ser
vice and school functions 
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 300.
G. C. Salzman, 4921 Forbes 
street (Sclienley 659), a Tech 
man, has the agency for Renauds and will appreciate your 
order.
(Continued From Page One.) 
on behalf of the R. O. T. C. He em
phasized the fact that merely techni
cal information without the ability to 
associate with and control men, can 
achieve but a very limited success. 
Military training is one of tlie surest 
ways of gaining this ability, and at I 
tlie same tim9 the student will be | 
fullfilling an important obligation to 
his country by preparing himself to i 
assume a more effective part in war. 
Mr. Woods concluded by relating sev
eral highly amusing personal anec
dotes .from his experience in France.
The marble statue Child Playing 
With Kittens has been purchased 
from the late Prof. Salieres estate 
by subscription of the students and 
will be donated to the College of Fine 
Arts in an appropriate ceremony.
PHYSICS COLLIQUIUM HOLDS
FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
(Continued From Page One.) 
tlie effects of light quanta in the pro
cess of photographic development. 
All interested are invited to attend 
the meeting which will be held in 
Room 113, Science, at 4:30 p. m.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal  Reserve System
Capital.........................5200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits.......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 27, 192THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
PLAID ATHLETICS
CARNEGIE RANKS HIGH 
IN COLLEGIATE TENNIS
For the fourth consecutive time Car
negie Tech has Avon the collegiate 
Tri-State Tennis championship. The 
record for the past season compared 
very favorably with that set by the 
team, of 1920 when Beatty and Davis 
were prominent in local tennis cir
cles. Both the team of 1920 and last 
years team lost to the University of 
Michigan, and both won from Syra
cuse, which makes matters fairly even. 
The great accomplishment of the past 
year was in tieing with Lehigh, a team 
which went through the season with 
only one defeat, and that at the hands 
of California, who won from Penn, 
Swathmore, Penn State, and Bucknell. 
Lehigh was captained by Rodney 
Beck, who ranked number ten in in
ter-collegiate tennis.
This coming season Carnegie Tech 
is going to be far above the class of 
collegiate tennis in Western Penn
sylvania. Besides the new Freshmen 
who are the most promising that ever 
entered Carnegie, there is also a 
wealth of tennis material-never equal
ed at any other time.
Perhaps the greatest thing that 
ever hapened to tennis here at Car
negie was the securing of C. S. Gar
land to coach next seasons team. Gar
land is the most widely known tennis 
player that Pittsburgh ever had, and 
ranked number eight in the United 
States several years ago. He is also a 
former inter-collegiate champion from 
Yale, and at the present time holds 
the championship of Western Penn
sylvania. Carnegie Tech is indeed 
fortunate in securing a player of such 
an established reputation.
The passing of Col. J. C. W. Brooks 
from Carnegie Tech will be keenly 
felt The Colonel was a well-known 
figure on the campus and without a 
doubt aroused the great interest in 
tennis that has brought the sport to 
its present high level at our institu
tion. Devotees of tennis at Carnegie 
can never thank Col. Brooks too 
greatly for his services.
BACK AGAIN!
TECH NOVELTY 
DANCE ORCHESTRA
Stephen Kovach, Jr.
Schenley 9211
4915 FORBES ST.
f My Home f 
I Away From f
On the Plaid Screen
VALE STARS CLASH 'WITH CARNEGIE TECH SATURDAY
By H. H. WILSON
OFF TO A GOOD START
Thus it seems after the overwhelming victory over Waynesburg last 
Saturday. The brilliance of colors, red, orange and green, with a blue sky 
overhead lent a picturesque touch to our initial gridiron battle. Those red 
jerseys are much more attractive and snappy than the gray ones of past 
seasons and in a way are a danger signal to our opponents. Waynesburg 
appeared to be terribly weak on the defensive and not very active on the 
offensive. However, it-may be due to their not having played together before 
and to their lack of experience in .college football. They have the material 
for a good team if they can be trained to more team play and less individ
ualism.
Our Plaid warriors surely showed the advantage of Steffen's training. 
Those versatile quarterbacks. Robertson and Weirman, are better than ever 
this year and should throw some scares into the Yale camp next Saturday 
at New Haven.
IT LOOKED GOOD
To see that squad of cheerleaders pepping up the boys and injecting the 
old spirit into the cheering sections. It seems as though it takes the foot
ball season to put the energy and vim into it and generate some real cheer
ing. We hope to see that group of wliite-clad men hold together and be in 
top form for the W. & J. and Peun State games. ,
HOT OFF THE GRIDIRON
Beefsteaks like chewing gum these days, according to Doc Taylor. 
What'll it be, Beemans or Spearmint? says the waiter at the training 
table. "Dutch Zelt says lie prefers Beemans. Maybe theres a reason; we 
cant say.
Dummy Szold sure put the artistic temperament into football. He 
charges so gracefully and then he puts the real acting into faked passes 
and plays.
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
Yale took over Bates last Saturday, 4S-0, but it doesn't mean anything. 
Yet it shows that the Bulldogs have a powerful scoring machine and are not 
to be trifled with.
Two more of our future opponents met on Saturday when W. & J. trim
med Geneva after a hard battle. It took the Presidents three quarters to 
find themselves and then they managed to shove across two touchdowns 
for a hard-earned 14-0 victory.
We havent anything on Penn State as yet, for the Nittany Lion chewed 
up St. Bonaventure to a 5*1-0 tune.
ON SATURDAY
We will see the Plaid Freshmen in their opening game against Westinghouse Tech. This bids fair to be a good game and should draw a large 
crowd. Many of the alumni will be on hand for a luncheon, topping off with 
the Plebe game and the Yale-Carnegie returns which will be given out during 
the contest.
With the exception of the Duquesne-Dennison battle at the Bluff, this 
contest will be practically the only other one in the city. The students 
are particularly urged to come out, and give the Plebes a good send off.
Heres something to keep in mind about the game. The admission will 
be by presentation of the student athletic book or registration card, or 50 
cents otherwise. Every loyal Carnegie student must be on the Held Saturday 
afternoon, for that is the only place on the campus where the returns of the 
big game at New Haven will be given out.
Yale With a Team Rated as| 
Best in East, is Next Op-1 
ponent for Carnegie Footj 
ball Warriers
HARD GAME ASSURED!
THE PLAID HARRIERS
Are getting down to hard work and there are hopes of a good team to 
represent Carnegie in the hill and dale sport. One important thing we note 
is that the Tartans will have two chances to buck up against Cornell, in both 
the Syracuse invitation meet and in the Intercollegiates. If Coach Beeler 
can develop a good team, it means that we will have more of a chance to 
make championship claims this fall.
CARNEGIE GRIDDERS START 
SEASON WITH 54-0 VICTORY 
OVER WAYNESBURG COLLEGE
Home
That is what the fellows call the' Oakland, -j' 
xMethodist Church and
XCommunity House.
X
3904 FORBES ST. f
XXDrop in and see for $ 
Xyourself.
== Compliments 
1 Skibo Inn 1
(Continued From Page One.) 
Rosenbloom the only regular on the 
injured list was substituted for by 
Gilbert, a star on last year's Fresh
man team, and performed admirably. 
Zelt, who substituted for Skitch 
Henderson at guard throughout all of 
last season, performed during the en
tire game at left tackle, "Cy Com
fort being moved into "Skitclis old 
place, In order to strengthen the cen
tral portion of the line. Both of these 
new men did their part of, the play
ing in a fine' manner and deserve 
commendation. They will no doubt 
develop into important cogs in the 
Crimson Clad hiacliine of Wally 
Steffen.
Potter and Godden at ends showed 
that they have their old ability and 
fight, and time and time again 
smeared end runs in the making. Com
fort and Sprinkle are just as good as 
ever. In the baclcfleld, there were no 
individual stars. Although Robert
son, Wierman, and Brumbaugh did the 
bulk of the gaining, without the splcnLIFE
One has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip unt.il another year, 
The same rare interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agency.
Mellon National Bank
Oltuer SrmlhfieldA
C. Mo Siauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
318440. 6-,24 K,A4M
For The College Man.
STETSON, TRIMBLE, EAGLE
HATS
$3.00 to $10.00
PUSOE6 A1. NTGNE6
Oaklands Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
did interference formed by Captain 
Anderson and Moran, they would have 
fallen flat, for it goes without saying 
that interference is the most import
ant factor in succossful ground-gain
ing tactics in football.
Among the other now men who re
ceived a chance in the victory were 
Bastian at right half, Mefort at end, 
Kristoff at left tackle, Kalaibick at 
right tackle, and Donahue at right 
half. Dummy" -Steold, McCollum, and 
Alabam Newman of last years 
squad also were given chances to 
show their ability, and all four showed 
up well enough to demand further 
consideration.
The Lineup 
Carnegie Tech54 Waynesburg 0
Potter ................L. E....................Irwin
Tie it ......................L.T....................Lew,-
Comfort ...............L. G...............Granger
Irwin ....................CV............Williamson
Gilbert .................R. G............Shaddock
Sprinkle ...............R. T............... Willis
Godden ................R. ID...............Seybold
Robertson ............Q.............. McHenry
Moran ...................L. H............ Veschio
Anderson .............R. H................. Tate
Brumbaugh ..........F.........iS'trlttmatter
Score by periods:
Tech ............ 21 20 0 1354
Waynesburg 0 0 0 0 0
Substitutes: TechWierman for
Robertson, Newman for Potter, Tay
lor for Irwin, Kristoff for Zelt, Rosen
bloom for Gilbert, Szold for Robert
son. Bastian for Anderson, Meffort for 
Potter, Kalabisch for Sprinkle, Dona
hue for Bastian. WaynesburgRhine
for Irwin, Shaddock for Lowe, Wisner 
for Shaddock, Carroll for Wills,
OMally for Williamson, Wisner for 
Shaddock, Reed for Veschio, Hoy for 
Stjrittmatter. TouchdownsRobert
son 4, Brumbaugh 3, Wierman 1. Goals 
after touchdown bj* placement kick
ingComfort, 6; missed 2. Referee 
Dougherty, Wasli-Jeff. UmpireVery, Penn State. Head linesman 
McFarland, Wasli-Jeff.
With Waynesburg College out of 
the way, Coach Wally Steffen is 
throwing all of, his energies into prepJ 
aration for the game of this week-1 
end with the Yale Bulldog in the Yale | 
Bowl of New Haven. In' order to give j 
the team plenty of time to accustom 
itself to the green sod of the immense 
saucer. Graduate Manager ITaaren is 
arranging to send the men to Connect
icut Thursday afternoon, making thorn 
arrive Friday morning, when a prac
tice session in the bowl will be had, 
and a good nights sleep had in a quiet 
place, far from the grinding rumble 
of tlio Pullman car wheels.
Without a doubt, this game will be 
one of the hardest of the present sea-! 
son, and all indications point to a bat
tle royal. Yale as every one knows 
boasts of probably the best team in 
the oo.st and from all reports is a 
very heavy one with a large string of 
substitutes to rely upon. The team 
is captained by Jordan, who is play
ing his third, and last year. He is a 
plunging back of the heavy but fast 
typo. The team is much stronger than 
last year. The loss of Aldrich from 
the lineup will be felt, but from a 
likoly list of substitutes a good man 
will no doubt be found.
Two years ago, the Yale stars plac
ed a 44-0 defeat upon the Tartan rec
ord. and are anxious lo repeat, Car
negie Tech. on the other hand Is es
pecially anxious to wipo out that stain, 
and will therefore send a team to 
Yale which will give the Bulldog a 
real battle. The squad is in good 
shape, the spirit fine, and determina
tion a's dogged as they mako 'em, 
making prospects for a good battle 
very bright.
Practically the samo lineup which 
played against Waynesburg will bo 
used, excepting Rosonbloom, who will 
be back in his regular position in
stead of gracing the sidelines as an 
Injured man.
The returns will be given at the 
Carnegie Tech Freshman--Westinghouso-Tech game on Toch Fiold.
DIR. MORRIS SPEAKS
AT IND. ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Pago One) 
tending to outer the buslnoss world.
Following the address by Col. 
Woods, Ducky Allon, theIndustry 
cheer loader, lod the Plebes In a short 
cheering practice. Doan Morris was 
then introduced. The Dean welcom
ed the new Plobos and advised thom 
to straighten out their schedule dif
ficulties at once with their' faculty 
advisors. Ho also omplmslzod the Im
portance of becoming acquainted with 
their advisors, Dompsey, the Soph 
president, then explained some of the 
regulations which liavo proved troub
lesome to the Plobos and warned thom 
to be prosont at all future assemblies 
and mootings to answer to roll call.
Chairman Thorne appointed a com* 
mlttoe of throo to arrange for the elec
tion of an Assembly Prosidont and 
Student Council roprosontatlvo to fill 
tho vacancy loft by the resignation of 
Logan Johnson, who was unable to re
turn to school this fall. Tho commit
tee, composod of Comfort, Greonlaw 
and Brooks, will take charge of the 
nomination and oloctlon which will 
be held at the next rogular assem
bly on September 27th.
The next assembly will bo enliven
ed by tho customary initial Plobo t ini 
which Is expooted to servo as a warn
ing to erring Plobos.
Carnegie Tech Football Schedule
SEASON 1922
Walter P. Steffen......................................................................................Head Coach
J. L. Anderson ................................................................................................. Captain
Victor Stromquist...............................................................................Student Manager
Frank H. Haaren......................... ........... .................................Graduate Manager
Ages of Common Trees.
The -heart of the common oak, It 
is said, begins to rot at the age of 
300 years, so even when an oak Is 
undisturbed it rarely lives much be
yond 500 years. A larch may live 
275 years, a silver fir 425, and a pine 
over 500 years. The yew has a re
markable power of resisting times 
ravages, and may survive for 1,000 
years or more.
SEPTEMBER 30th
OCTOBER 7th
Geneva ................................................................................................... TECH FIELD
OCTOBER 14th
Wash-Jeff .......................................................................................... Washington, Pa.
OCTOBER 21st
Thiel College ........................................................................................ TECH FIELD
OCTOBER 28th
Grove City............................................................................................ TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 4th
Allegheny .............................................................................................. TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 11th
Penn State .................................................................................... state College, Pa.
NOVEMBER 18th
St. Bonaventure................................................................................... TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 25th
Notre Dame ...................................................................................... FORBES FIELD
WIERMAN SCORING BY A THIRTY YARD END RUN
Tennis Tournament 
Largest in History
Up until 4:30 Friday approximately 
forty names were entered an contest
ants in what promises to bo tho lar
gest and best tennis tournament ovor 
hold at C. I. T. Over tho wook-ond 
tho names woro paired off by lot and 
a chart, was made. A lint, of players 
with directions was put on each collogo bulletin board and tho chart for 
playing was placed at the tennis 
courts.
During the throe days before the 
opening of tho tournament on Mon
day the courts were put In good con
dition by Mauagor Krislo and assist
ant managers, Tho courts woro open
ed for uso by mombors from early 
morning until dusk In ordod to en
courage playing.
it Is well for all contestants to keep 
in mind that the good weather man 
may not prevail and each should do 
his best to play oil all matchos ipiojisiblo 
no as not to hold up progress. Until 
the tournament is completed those 
who are playing oil matches have tho 
right of way on tho, courts, but this 
must be done with courtesy to those 
members not In tho tournament.
The numbor of entries was some
what smaller than was oxpoctod 
probably because of, tlio limited time 
for entering.
Tills year with several local cham
pions and finalists and junior cham
pions from all parts of the country 
bright prospects are In view. Not 
all the best material will bo brought 
out by the rosults of tho tournament, 
but Coach Garland and Captain 
Schwartz will be around the courts 
much of the time sizing up the ability 
of all who play.
Como out and let the Coach and 
Captain get a line on your tennis 
ability.
Look for the lists on the bulletin 
boards and at the tennis courts.
ft very one has a fair chance so do 
not default.
Remember that a cup goes to the 
winner, and with the cup goes the
RESERVES TO MEET 
WESTINGH0USE TECH
Wealth of Material Promises 
a Fine Team. To Announce 
Results of Yale Game
Coach Beeler has had the Resorvo 
Football team scrimmaging every 
afternoon in preparation for tho first 
game next Saturday afternoon with 
Wostiughouse Tech. The squad con
tains many now men, and several of 
them show promise of developing into 
excellent players.
At the present time, it Is impossible 
for Coach Beeler to give out tho line
ups for tho initial contest, but it is 
safe to say that the men selected will 
give a good account of themselves.
Manager Farrel will have the re
sults of the Yale-Carnegie Tech game 
announced at this contest and the en
tire student body is urged to attend.
The following schedule Includes 
probably the best teams in the same 
class of football in the western sec-* 
tion of the state:
Sept. 30  Westinghouse Tech  
liore.
Oct. 7Slippery Rock Normal 
there.
Oct. 21  Bellefonte Academy  
here.
Oct. 27Grove City College Re
servesthere.
Nov. IS Indiana Normalthere.
championship of Carnegie Tech in 
tennis. The cup is a beauty and will 
be on exhibition at the Beanery until 
it is presented to the champion.
Rules governing the tournament:
1. MatchesBest out of three (3) 
sets, except in finals, which will bo 
best out. of five (5) sets. Referee 
optional except In finals.
2. Matches are to bo played within 
tho timo specified by tho referee 
otherwise default. Telephone num
ber must bo put on chart at court by 
each contestant.
a. For othor rulings, see tlioso 
givon out by National Lawn Tennis 
Association.
Schedule of matches:
UPPER HALF
"'Van Atta vs. Isaacs; Garland vs. 
Talbott; Park vs. Trochsol; Maseno 
vs. *Borno; Mvomory vs. Morldlth; 
Foster vi. Bucholt; Whitman (byo); 
Bowron vs. Loveland; Boochor vs. 
Allison: Bernardi vs. ?O'Connors. 
LOWER HALF
O. W. Jones vs. *11. N. Smith; Zlndor vs. 'Scholnmnn; Suurmun vs. 
Rhodes; Korgusou (byo); K11. Mar
shall vs. Honulngor; Jackson vs. Wil
son; Tom mol vs. 'Mlaunor; Dodds vs. 
Moosnor; IT. R. .Tonos vs. Strong; 
Simpson vs. +Hlvorhardt.
*lndleutos thoso sooded.
SOPHS WIN OVER PLEBES
IN INTER-CLASS CONTEST
Continuad From Pago Ono) 
battled for twenty minutes, tho Sophs 
tying twenty-nine Plebes while tho 
Plebes only secured twelve Sophs. 
Noodloss to say this was the conclud
ing event as fow mombors of either 
class foil the doslro to do anything 
othor than talco a hot obower after 
such an Intensivo encounter.
Hugh Sprenkle was chairman of the 
committee drawing plans lor tho con-' 
tost and Tommy Griggs took charge 
of tho events. Cunningham, Burgland, Campbell, Thompson, Shoolcor 
and Robortson acted as officials whllo 
Cummins and Troosehol acted as roforoos for the boxing and wrestling 
events. Much credit Is also due Mldgo 
Mot ter find hi squad of Plobos for 
the excellent work In preparing for 
tho contosts.
MEETING OF Y. M. C. A.
CABINET LAST FRIDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Friday night a,t the Schonloy High 
School at seven o'clock. For further 
Information call at the Y. M. C. A. 
club room.
A. lady's pocketboolc also was found. 
Description may be given to the find
er. Robert Bier, Schenley 0231.
Freshman Squad Statistics
Name. Prep School. Position. Weight.
Amans, L...............Akron South High ............................Back ........................140
Bender, C. O.........LaSalle Institute ...............................Line ........................170
Bloom, .T. II...........New Kensington High......................Quarter ..................140
Bowers, H..............Kenmore High ...................................Guard ......................100
Bright, J. G...........Schenley High, Pittsburgh...............End ..........................ISO
Calilster, M............Hiram College ..................................Guard ......................172
Campbell, A. C....South Hills High.............................Guard ......................150
Campbell, J. II....High School, Philadelphia, Pa.End..........................105
Cass, A. I-I.............Ravenna High, Nebraska................Tackle .....................180
Cook, P. W...........Buffalo Toch High............................Halfback .................100
Cupp, C...................Edgewood I-IIgh ..................................Lineman .............152
Craighead, G.........Wilkinsburg High ..............................End ..........................ICO
Daniels. C. W.... .Monongahela High .........................Back ........................150
De Mare, A. L.......High School, Philadelphia, Pa........Guard ......................140
Escli, L. R.............Wilkinsburg High ............................Quarterback ____.1-15
Ferebee. S.............Maury High .........................................Back........................145
Goodwin, M. N----Rayen High ........................................End ..........................158
Graf*, D....................TameHlown High ..........................End ........................14
Guthrie. A. W.......Vocational High ................................End ..........................14(1
Hang, E. D........,. .Schuylkill Seminary .......................Guard ....................155
Hartwell, M...........Peabody High ....................................Back ........................1.58
Henderson. P. E.. .Coshocton High ...............................Tackle ....................140
Hogan, J, D...........Camp Hill High..................................Back. ........................105
Jacoby, G. 10...........Moolmnicsburg High .........................Back ........................144
Kallfolz, M. B.......Allegheny Vocational High.............Back .........................155
Kuhn, C, .f.............Charleston High ................................End ..........................100
Lord, .1. I)..............Now London High ..........................Quarterback. .........154
Llborknlght, C. J3..Bedford High ...................................Quarterback .........148
Mahoney, F. P.,. .Muncle High ..............................Back ........................108
Mucauley. D. FBeverly High, Massachusetts........Back .......................18(1
Mohrman, M..........Wilmington High .............,................Halfback ...............155
Morgan, T. F........Marshall College ..............................Tackle .....................152
Powrle, S. A.........Warren High......................................End .....................,..150
Predmore, D. R... .Milford High .....................................Guard ......................185
Reck, II. A.............Glean High ........................................Guard ......................187
Rogers. C. B.r----Jamestown High ..............................End ..........................145
Scholl, M. R.........High School ................,......................Tackle ...................175
Schofer, L. W.......Reading High ....................................Tackle .....................140
Schultz, A..............Pitcairn High ...................................End ..........................140
Selple, W...............Ellwood City High............................Back ........................153
Silverman, A. J----Tarentum High ..................................Guard ......................158
Standeven, W. E.. .East Aurora High..............................End ..........................137
Vanatta.................Bimington High ____;.......................Back .......................160

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1922
THE COLLEGIATE 8IX 
ORCHESTRA" 
Dittico Mutilo Spoclaltlon, 
10V1DIUDTT H HH MS 
Hllnnd 88.
6224 LIBERTY AVENUE
rENUS
PENCILS
57a Ui'/fil ulllivj Q'ulHf milt <lI Ihl imrlilI
ipOR lliofltudontor prof., tlio 
superb VENUS oiit-rivnlH 
nil for porfoct portcil work. 
17 hluclc degree3 copying. 
American Load.
Ioucil Co.
220 I'lMi Avo. 'f/fVNow Ynrlt YtfiW
Wrlto for lioolclot on VniJUfi Ionclln nncl VSNUa ISVEtltOINTKD Muolmnlcnl Iunclln
Radio and Electrical Supplico.
STORAGE BATTERIES 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANr 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street.
Phone Schenley 4545.
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURGH CLAN HONORS
FOOTBALL MEN BY DANCE
On Saturday evening, September 16, 
the new social year was ushered in 
with a reception and dance held in 
the Arts Foyer in honor of the 1922 
football Squad. All the features which 
make up an enjoyable evening were 
present. The weather could not have
been more appropriate had it been 
made to order. The music was by the 
"Collegiate Six. Dancing was the 
main attraction from 9 until about 10.
Coach Steffen then gave us the in
formation we had been anxiously 
waiting to hear since the squad first 
went to camp. After a talk by Cap
tain Anderson, and a few cheers from 
the audience, dancing again absorbed 
our attention until 11:45.
Alumni Dinner at New 
Haven After Yale Game
You can betclia life when Techs 
team inns into that big bowl in New 
Haven the 30th, something is going 
to be stirred up. That bull-dogs go
ing to have an awful time1 chasing 
this Scotchman out of his lothut 
if the hulldog thinks hes only got one 
to chase out he is mighty mistaken 
for there is going to be plenty of 
others and a howling pack they are 
going to be.
These packs are' assembling in New 
Y6rk, Boston and Hartford and they 
are getting ready for a big day. They 
are starting out or have already done
Students desiring to get a reliable 
fountain pen, Eversharp Pencil, 
Tech recognition or seal pin, brief 
case, school ring, personal stationery, 
etc., should call at the Singer Pen & 
Gift Shop in the Jenkins Arcade.
sowhen the 30tli rolls around they 
will be in the front seats. Their 
den for that day is going to be the 
Hotel Garde and after they have had 
a chance to get together they are all 
going to the Yale Bowl to watch the 
fireworks and. to have, a big hand in 
setting some of them off.
After the game everybody is going 
back to the Garde for a dinner and 
it is going to be all that the name 
implies and not all dishes. Not go
ing to be much hot air because we 
know the boys would like to dance 
and so they are going to be given the' 
opportunity.
This is going to be the biggest 
alumni gathering ever held in New 
England and I guess were going to 
give them all up here something to 
think about. If you can go to this 
game get in touch with Dick Arnold, 
701 Telephone Building, S. N. E. T. 
.Company, New Haven, Conn. This is 
his business address and he desires 
that you get in touch with him hero 
in preference to his home address.
New England Alumni 
Plan Big Time at Game
All Day Program Outlined 
for Next Saturday
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
Dick Arnold, 33 Lake Place, New 
Haven, Connecticut, has arranged a 
big time in NeW Haven at the Yale 
game. The tentative program, pro
vided fifty alumni are present, is as 
follows:
Headquarters for alumniHotel 
Garde., opposite railroad station.
MorningGet-together party meet
ing at the Garde to get bearings.
Lunch together.
AfternoonGame.
Evening6:00 or 0:30 banquet 
Taft Hotel, little speaking. Lots of 
dancing and a good old time for the 
team. The team leaves for New York 
about S:30. If you can possibly make 
the game write Arnold at once to arsure the success of this party.
The football squad will leave Pitts
burgh, Thursday, September 28, at 
8:30 p. m . on the Pennsylvania Rail
road and will arrive in New York 
the following morning at 0:15. They 
will stop in New York just long enough 
to get breakfast. From there they 
will proceed to a small place near 
New Haven. They will arrive in New 
Haven about an hour before the game. 
Coach Steffen is justly insistent that 
there be no welcoming crowd at any 
time before the game.
BillSays:
HEAR THE TECH-YALE
FOOTBALL RETURNS
On the day of the Tech-Yale foot
ball game, Saturday, September 30, 
every Tech alumnus in the Pittsburgh 
district should come out to the Var
sity Clan Cafeteria for lunch at 1:00 
P. M> There will be a big rally and 
renewal of old acquaintances. Then 
everybody will gather at the Held, 
where a double feature will be pre
sented. The Freshman team will ap
pear for its first game under the su
pervision of Paul Beeler, our new 
Freshman Coach. The Freshies will 
play Westinghouse Tech at 2:30. 
The other attraction will be the playby-play report of the Tech-Yale game. 
This is the biggest football game in
Say Plebel Do you remember what 
President Baker, Dean Kirkpatrick 
and Gradute Manager Haaren said 
at General Assembly last week? To 
begin with the head of tho school em
phasized the fact that it endangers 
ones scholastic work to go out for 
too many activities. Quite true. He 
also emphasized the necessity of tak
ing part in activities in getting the 
right kind of au education.
It is primarily for hard study that 
we come to college but you can study 
diligently without becoming a greasy 
grind. Look over the field of activi
ties, pick out one or two that you 
are interested in, and get to work. 
Putting in all your time on your stud
ies may get you through this school 
but it certainly wont assure you suc
cess in after life.
Dont wait until you are a Sopho
more. Start now. Make your edu
cation complete. Look through the 
list of noted Carnegie Alumni, men 
and women who hold prominent po
sitions about the country and then 
look up their records while they wore 
in school. You will find that they are 
tbe ones who went into activities and 
the ones who took an active part in 
student life.
Take the word of one who knows 
you who are new at Carnegie Tech. 
Make your education complete and 
dont give anyone reason to call you 
a greasy grind. We have some 
around the schoolthey are the men 
we never hear ofthe fellows who 
just .exist.
the country on that day and every 
Tech alumnus should treat his heart 
to the thrills of following every move 
the Plaid team makes up in New 
Haven against the Yale Bull Dog.
Admission to the field will bo fifty 
cents or by presentation of current 
year athletic book. Get into tho en
thusiastic spirit of tho occasion. 
Show yourself a good time. Lets 
have a big crowd.
Attention Clans! Wo are also plan
ning to give Carneglo Tech some real 
advertising by having the progress of 
tho game broadcasted by radio.
ALUMNI! REMEMBER 
CARNEGIE TECH
Graduates Can Assure the 
Identity and Future 
of Our School
INTER-FRAT COUNCIL ISSUES
REVISED RUSHING RULES
Real Service Must Be Engineered
Many of the men whose names are writ large 
in engineering history are design engineers; men 
like Westinghouse, Lamme, Stanley, Hodgkinson, Tesla, Shallenberger. Their inventions 
have the quality of usefulness, of reliability, of 
productability; which is an involved way, per
haps, of saying that they have the primary 
requisite of all really great inventions: 
Serviceability.
Engineering history abounds in instances of 
near-genius that produced no product, and of 
great developments that never reached comple
tion; and most of these instances are explained 
by the lack, somewhere in the system, of that 
ability to give real Service.
Service, in a machine or a system, or wherever 
you find it, is not there by accident but because 
it was incorporated by men who understood 
what was required and knew how to provide it.
Much more is required of the designer than 
facility in calculation and mastery of theory. 
He miis^ have first hand and thorough familiarity 
with manufacturing operations and with com
mercial and operating conditions. It takes more 
than mere ingenuity and inventiveness to design 
apparatus that will be really serviceable and 
will stay put.
The design engineer, in the Westinghouse 
plan, is responsible for the performance of the 
finished product. He cannot possibly have the 
proper understanding of operation unless he oper
ates and tests, unless he spends time and thought 
in investigation and study, not in the laboratory 
or drawing room, but right on the operating 
job. Here, most of his ideas will develop; and 
here he will see and prepare for all the different 
things which the product will later have to 
encounter. Then when he comes to put his 
creations on paper, his calculations will be 
necessary and helpful to check the conclusions 
which he has reached, and this right use of them 
requires training and a high degree of under
standing. This proper balance of the physical 
and mathematical conception of things is what 
constitutes engineering judgement.
It should be thoroughly understood that the 
primary function of the design engineer is the 
conception and the production of new or im
proved apparatus, and familiarity with the 
practical is essential to the proper discharge of 
this duty.
It is this view of designing that makes this 
branch of Westinghouse engineering so impor
tant, so effective, and so productive of real 
developments.
Carnegie Tech is confronted by 
many serious problems at the pres
ent time and it is our duty to help 
solvo them.
Of course you have heard tho rumore of consolidation with Pitt. 
Some alumni are doing things and 
need your help. What have you done 
since leaving school to show your 
appreciation of what Mr. Carnegie 
made possible for you?
Have you ever considered what you 
owe?
Have you lcep.t in touch with Car
negie Tech's development?
Have you talked Carnegie Tech and 
boosted it to your acquaintances?
Has your orlticlsm of tho admin
istration and tho faculty been woll 
grounded and constructive?
Have you visited the campus or 
kept in touch with your professor 
and instructors since you left school?
Have you considered what a lettor 
or a visit might mean to men who 
are spending their lives in education
al work? You are men and women 
who have been out in the world and ! 
any success you have achieved is | 
their success. Your advice concern
ing their courses will surely be wel
comed. Radical instructors some
times try to revise set courses and 
supplant them with somejtliing bet
ter. Your advice may be the means 
of bringing about harmony.
You are proud of Carnegie Tech 
and of wliat her graduates and stu
dents have achieved. Still tho ac
companying figures show that only 
about 50 per cent of our graduates 
have acknowledged their apprecia
tion and responsibility. The figures 
show further that the older graduates 
seem to be least interested. These 
are the men and women who are in a 
position to do the most towards ad
vertising their Alma Mater. Lot thom 
put their shouldors to tho wheel, 
malto Carnegie as well known as she 
deserves to bo and hy EN doing, 
brighten their NOHUU Carneglo trade 
mark.
Carnegie Tech has grown beyond 
all expectations in the past ten yearn j 
and only a small percentage of grad-1 
nates have come back to soo tho 
many changes both In tho appearance 
of tho campus and In management. 
Much of tho criticism of existing poli
cies and conditions is probably duo 
to the lack of (Buffiiclient information. 
Real constructive criticism is needed 
and remember NO ORGANIZATION 
CAN BE IMPROVED FROM THE 
OUTSIDE.
Tills does not moan to turn rod" 
and start a personal campaign to 
clean tho slates, but rathor to co
operate with tho Alumni Federation 
in its work of bettering conditions. 
Get into it and assure Carnoglo 
Tech's identity and future. Renioni* 
her the Carnegie Tartan and Alumnus 
go with membership.
You can do your personal work 
on your classmutos, who havent yot 
appreciated their responsibility. Got 
busy on tho 70 por cont not paid up.
Owing to tho recent misunderstand
ings among the student body concern
ing the rushing rules the Interfrater. 
nity Council submits the following in
terpretations and corrections to the 
regulations.
By-Laws, Article XII. Rushing Reg
ulations.
Rushing rules apply only to Plebes 
and to men entering C I. T. for the 
first time.
Section 1. Rushing Period.
The Rushing Period shall begin 
with tho fall registration day, noon, 
September IS, and terminate at mid
night of the 4tli Saturday, following, 
Octobor 11.
Section 2. Bids.
Bids may be offered, but not ac
cepted, after the expiration of the 
third week of tho Rushing Period, i, e, 
ueginuing with 12 oclock midnight of 
tihe third 'Saturday following registra
tion.
Section 3. Period of Silence.
All rushing shall cease at 12 oclock 
(midnight), of the fourth Saturday 
and mutual silence shall bo maintain
ed until noon (12 M), of the following 
day (Sunday).
Section 4. Acceptance of Bids.
At this hour (12 M Sunday) the 
rusliee will signify his choice by pre
senting himself at the house or quar
ters of the fraternity of Ills choice.
Section 5. Open rushing.
From this time on open rushing 
shall prevail.
Section 0. Dates.
The exact dates of the periods es
tablished by this article shall be set
by tho Infratornity Council for each 
year during tho previous spring.
'Section 7. Publicity.
(u) Printed copies of the rushing 
regulations shall be forwarded to all 
eligible studehts entering r'Cavnegio 
Instltuto of Technology for the first 
time.
(b) Ihese regulations shall bo pub
lished in the first four issues of tho 
Carnegie Tartan" each year.
Section S.
These regulations slmll be effective 
for tho college year of '.1922-1023.
The following is of interest to new 
students.
Article Y, Section 2, of the By-Laws, 
reads as follows:
A student must ha-ve completed 
satisfactory one semester of the reg
ular college year, must ho registered 
in a degree course, and must be in 
good standing as interpreted by the 
Institute ellbibility rules, in order to 
be a candittdte for initiation into any 
fraternity. Lists of prospective initi
ates shall bo submitted to the Dean 
of Mon to bo passed on for scholastic 
eligibility.
Dates of tho periods established by 
Article Xll of the By-Laws for 1922- 
23 are as follows:
Rushing periodNoon of September 
18th to midnight of October 14th.
Bidding periodMidnight of Octo
bor 7tli to midnight of Ocitober 14th.
Period of SllonceMidnight of Oc
tober 14th to noon of Octobor 15tli.
Acceptance of bidsFrom noon oi 
October 15th on.
KAMPUS KOMMENT
By James K. Mattor.
Acting Doan Kirkpatrick told us the 
other day that the sight of all tho 
new faces around school was a won
derful stimulation to him. At that 
rate a lemon phosphate would fur
nish a kick, a Coca Cola a jolt and af
ter a noar beer a man should bo em
balmed with his ancestors. There 
should bo a law against pormltt|ng 
some men from walking on any stroet 
that houses a former saloon.
Speaking of liquorWo wore--
FACULTY NEWS 
AND NOTES
In the Juno Issue of the Blast Fur
nace and Steel Plant, there was a 
description of tho new power plant at 
tho Whltaker-Glesner plant of tho 
Wheeling 'Steel Corporation, which 
was prepared by Prof. Estep of the 
Department of Mechanical Engineer
ing.
In a recent issue of Combustion 
a magazine devoted entirely to fuels 
and combustionProf. Estep gave an 
original method of checking flue gas 
analysis against fuel analysis in order 
to determine if they have been cor
rectly made.
Adolpli Zultor lutti organi/,od a school 
for manners l'or all tho movlo etani. 
Wondorful thiiig, Tho nctors aro 
taught how to actIn private. On 
bis socond marrlago a man In lookod 
al. stornly; af'tor blu fifth dlvoVo 
spotik to liIni. And If ho 
immo In Engllfih to a lovo noto 
givo bini a grado of fifty and Homi 
him back for a ropoat.
Il' Clnsio ClilHol-Chln, tho borniahalrod soubrette, SE calighi talklng to 
Euphonlouii Up-Stago whoii Jiuphlo 
doosn'l; havo'tho ohuporon along Llton 
Ifiuphio golfi a coui^t of tlmio on blu 
record, whlcli SE tho mimo DE a cut-- 
tho conni. SEAand Cimilo getti bawpd 
out whlcli In tho suino au taklng Ilio, 
countall told It'n a prolty compii* 
catod tlilng. Bui, thoy bave losuoiis 
rogular lossons, and thoy do munii.
Llko thlo
l IL coHtn five hundred dollars and 
taken six months to got a dlvorco In 
Reno, and If I got a raise of Lwo hun
dred dollars a woolc and decido to 
Hi Ip the lawyer an oxtra grand, can 
bo married by Christmas if it is Aug
ust now and on second thought 1 de
cide to stahd tho ambulance chaser 
off?
Kid McCoy is the only ono who 
over answered that, and Iioh left the 
movies. But you have to admit that 
theyre trying to be careful of our 
morals. ItH a good thing. We ought 
to have a school.
Dr. Baker will give a talk on the 
radio Monday evening, September 25, 
on Evening ClassesThe Workers 
Opportunity; Mr. Morris, Associate 
Director of the College of Industries, 
will speak Tuesday evening, the 20th, 
on Training for Men in the Indus
tries in Evening Classes; Mr. Bossange, Director of the College of Fine 
Arts, will speak on Wednesday eve
ning, the 27th, on Evening Courses 
in Fine Arts; and Mr. Mott, Director 
of the College of Engineering, on 
Training for Engineers in Evening 
Classes, on Saturday, the 30th.
For the Freshmen who eat pea-3 with 
a meat hook and who pick their fin
gernails where we must watch. We 
love linger nailBpretty finger nails 
on hands that pass us money on pay
day. We like em on the ladies 
they're useful and handy most every
wherellko a handkerchiefbut you 
dont wash that on a street car.
Some people know this
Mr. Frederick C. Clayter, Assistant 
Professor in the Applied Art Depart
ment at Tech, has been appointed Cu
rator of the Sculpture Department for 
this year. A now class Industrial 
Modeling will be inaugurated under 
his superviHlon,
A pocketbook containing a substan
tial sum of money and check wan 
lost. Finder ploaso return SNEY article 
to the office of tho Dean of Men and 
receive reward.
But its a great world. Four hundron thousand shopmen were on a 
strike all summer. The other day 
about half of them decided to quit 
vacationing and try working for 
awhile. They tell the whole world 
they have won the strike, for didnt 
the companies agree to take them 
back and give them their seniority 
rights?
But you know
They had their seniority rights be
fore they went on Htrike
And wliatinell did they want them 
back for?
Well novor tell you.
Lading Down a Barrage.
"Do you hear from your son at col
lege?
"Early and often," said Mr. Grabcoln. "T got so many requests for 
money by mall, telegraph nnd long 
distance telephone that I hesitate to 
listen In with my radio outfit, for 
fear Ill hear sons voice making an
other appeal.
--------------------------- I.Has Bcon About Solno,
"Your boy has graduated?"
"Yes," sitItl Mr. Grabcoln. "Now ho 
wants to go abroad nnd TNN something 
of the world.
"Why dont you let him TNN America 
first?"
"You couldn't Interest him In a 
proposition llko that, lie travoled with 
tlio football team."
I Kind of Ncrvoun.
"I might1 give you tv job. You lmvo 
boon a chorus girl how long?"
"Ten years.
You SOOiii nervous about Homebody 
stopping on your feet.
BARNHARTS
Real Home Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AVE.
8 LAM4M 8
=_________________________________________ c-r 
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
Membership Campaign Results
Arts..............
Industry........
M. M. C. C.. 
Engineering.
Total Alumni
Total
Alumni
338
937
580
1393
3254
Paid Up % Paid 
1921 1921
Paid Up % Paid 
1922 1922
932713540
3423729732
3205532956
6004870451
