9
Stever to Accept NSF 
Directorship; Will Leave 
GMU by February I
As predicted in the TARTAN two weeks 
ago, President Nixon last Monday announced 
his intention to nominate President Stever as 
Director of the National Science Foundation.
Stever called the nomination a great hon
or, and said that if the Senate acts positively 
~n his confirmation, he will accept the posi
tion with great enthusiasm for the tasks 
which lie ahead.
The position will be vacated on February 
1st, 1972.
General campus consensus has it that the 
vacated CMU presidency, at least for an in
terim, will be filled by Dr. Edward R. Schatz, 
current Vice-President for Academic Affairs. 
After the resignation of CMlTs last President, 
ohn Warner, the presidency was assumed 
temporarily by a committee.
Dr. Stever, who celebrated his 55th birth
day on October 24, came to Carnegie-Mellon 
(then Carnegie Institute of Technology) in 
February, 1965, from Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology. During the six and one-half 
years he has served as President, CMU has 
ndergone many changes.
In 1967, Mellon Institute merged with 
Carnegie Tech to form Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versitya university with an endowment of 
almost $120,000,000and the change to Uni
versity status accelerated other changes at the 
new institution.
Shortly thereafter, CMU announced the 
creation of a new School of Urban and Public 
fairs established to meet the demand for 
rsons capable of dealing with growing urban 
problems. At the same time, a College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences was also an
nounced and the first students in that new 
College are now juniors. Also in 1967 CMU 
was selected for one of the National Science 
Foundations University Science Develop
ment Grants. The University received $4.3 
trillion from the NSF to be used over a three7ear period to strengthen educational and re
search programs in various fields of science.
Other major changes which have taken 
place during Dr. Stevers tenure as President 
include the division of the College of Engi
neering and Science into Carnegie Institute of 
Technology (engineering) and Mellon Insti
tute of Science, both of which are now degree 
granting colleges of CMU. In addition, the 
University, in 1968, announced a $55 million 
!und raising drive and has raised more than 
$35 million more than ever before in a similar 
time period. This fall, Science Hall, a new 
Si5.5 million building, with over 300,000 
square feet, and the largest academic building 
on campus, was opened.
Before coming to CMU, Dr. Stever served, 
^or more than twenty years on the faculty at 
^IT. During that time he achieved national 
prominence as an educator and in service to 
the federal government. Among his govern
mental activities, he has a presidential ap
pointment as a member of the National 
Science Board and serves as a member of the( 
Advisory Panel to the House of Representa
tives on Science and Astronautics. He has also 
served as Chief Scientist with the U.S. Air
* rce, as Chairman of the Presidents Ad Hoc
Science Panel, on the Presidents Commission 
on Patent System, and has headed many other 
aeronautical and scientific advisory commit
tees at the federal level.
He is an internationally respected expert 
on aeronatucial engineering and space tech-i 
nology and has been often honored for hisj 
work in those fields and for his service to 
government. Professionally he holds 
memberships in the National Academy of 
Engineering, the American Institute of Aero
nautics and Astronautics, the American Acad
emy of Arts and Sciences, the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, 
and others.
Dr. Stever has also done extensive con
sulting and has served on numerous Boards in 
industry. Currently, he is a director of Uni ted 
Aircraft Corporation, Koppers Company, 
Inc., and Fisher Scientific Company.
Born in Corning, N.Y., Dr. Stever received 
his A.B. degree from Colgate University and 
his Ph.D. from California Institute of Tech
nology. He joined the faculty of MIT in 1941, 
and except for the period 1942 thru 1945,' 
when he served on the faculty at MIT until his 
appointment as President of CMU in 1965. 
While at MIT he held various positions in
cluding department head and associate dean 
of engineering.
Dr. Stever has received nine honorary 
degrees and numerous other honors. In Pitts
burgh, he has been active in community af
fairs and is a Trustee of the Sarah Mellon 
Scaife Foundation and a Director of the Pitts
burgh Symphony Society, the Regional In
dustrial Development Corporation, the Pittsburgh-Allegheny County Chapter of the 
American Red Cross, and Metropolitan Pitts
burgh Educational Television (WQED). In 
1966 he was named Pittsburghs Man of the 
Year by the Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Dr. Stever is married, and has four 
children.
Pre-Registration 
Procedure 
Announced
The Registrars office has announced the 
procedure which students should follow to 
pre-register for next semesters courses. Pre
registration scheduling follows:
Schedule of classes will be available in a 
special edition of the TARTAN, Tuesday 
afternoon, Nov. 23rd.
Academic departments will be set up in 
gym to process course and section enrollment 
on December 6th from 1-5 PM and 6-9 PM. 
Classes will not be cancelled on this day. But 
to help provide students with more equity in 
course enrollments they will be assigned a 
specific time to appear in the gym. The fac
ulty have been asked to cooperate in excusing 
from class those students who because of their 
time assignments must miss all or part of their 
classes.
Students must appear at the gym at the 
designated time with their time assignment 
card and 5 schedule cards approved by their 
advisor. (Note: advisors are not to retain a 
copy. The Registrar will return 4 copies to
departments after enrollments have been 
completed in the gym.)
Students must enroll on departmental class 
lists at appropriately marked departmental 
tables for each course scheduled. Where it is 
necessary for the teaching department to 
change sections or refuse enrollment because 
of filled sections, the student should correct 
all copies of the schedule card to reflect these 
changes.
The official roster of a class is determined 
by the list generated by each department in 
the pre-registration and registration proce
dures. If a student does not sign the class list 
for each class in which he wants to enroll, no 
subsequent issuance of class cards by the 
Registrar at any time during the registration 
procedure will entitle him to entry into any 
class. If an instructor receives a class card with 
a name which does not appear on the class list, 
he will mark it void and return it to the 
Registrar. The appropriate way for students 
to enter courses after registration is by Change
November 18, 1971, Volume 71/Number 10
Presidential Hopeful 
McGovern Stumps 
In Music Hall
Jon Manon
Ushered in by electioneering buttons and 
banners and an amalgamation of lesser politi
cal lights, Senator George McGovern came to 
Pittsburgh on Sunday night to do some early 
campaign stumping en route to his bid for the 
Democratic Presidential nomination.
Senator McGovern was warmly greeted by 
a full-to-overflowing Carnegie Music Hall 
audience. A show of hands indicated that 
many had come bearing an attitude of Imnot-yet-commited, but the enthusiasm evi
denced upon the initial appearance of the 
Senator suggested that most were certainly 
readily ameanable to being convinced of the 
Senators virtues.
Preceding McGoverns address, various 
quasi-political eminences availed themselves 
of the podium to incite Democratic fervor and 
enthusiastically affirm the qualifications of 
the South Dakota Democrat. Notable perhaps 
for its rhetoric-less amiability was an informal 
delivery by actor Warren Beatty appropriately 
entitled Why I am for McGovern. His pre
ference, Beatty informed the multitude, was 
bedrocked in his perception that while there 
are presently several Democratic candidates 
of a likable liberal ilk, George McGovern has 
been consistently right for some time now, 
being courageously outspoken against our in
volvement in the South East Asian conflict as 
early as 1963 while the vast majority re
mained mute.
Eventually McGovern himself ascended to 
the rostrum following a mercifully brief intro
duction from the Honorable Leonard C. 
Staisey, Chairman, Board of Allegheny 
County Commissioners.Senator McGovern, 
his sights clearly fixed upon White House 
occupancy, severely castigated the perfor
mance of the present regime and declared that 
if he is nominated the Democratic presidential 
candidate: We will change this country and 
we will drive Mr. Nixon from the White 
House. Contending that his campaign is 
based on issues and not on razzamatazz 
McGovern iterated policy changes he would 
strive for, calling for an end to the draft,
in Schedule Card.
Students who have pre-registered will be 
given preference for places in courses over all 
students who have not pre-registered regard
less of their classification (ie. senior, junior, 
etc.)
Time assignment cards will be sent to stu
dents at their home address during Thanks
giving Recess. If for any reason the card is not 
received, a duplicate may be secured from:
a. Freshmen in CIT, MIS, H&SS students in 
the office of the Dean.
b. All upperclass students and freshmen 
Fine Arts students in department offices.
canceling of the Anti-Ballestic Missle system, 
and a curb upon wire tapping snoopers. He 
pledged to replace the current director of the 
FBI who is more concerned with capturing 
campus radicals than with cracking down on 
the underworld, and received a consequent 
appreciative outburst of applause.
Stressing his support for programs to 
implement equal opportunities for women, 
McGovern said that were he to be elected, he 
would nominate women to fill the first avail
able openings in the US Supreme Court.
The Senator from South Dakota voiced a 
scathing denunciation of continuing US pre
sence in Vietnam, calling for a total bombing 
halt, and declaring that we... ought to grant 
a general amnesty... for the men who stood 
up on grounds of conscience in this conflict. 
He cited as precedent for such an amnesty 
President Abraham Lincolns forgiveness of 
the Confederate forces following the Civil 
War. McGovern also advocated a reduction of 
US troop strength in Europe by at least 50%, 
and said that we must stop thinking that we 
have to prop up military dictatorships all 
around the globe.
Stressing the urgency of domestic crises, he 
said I would like to call upon this great 
country of ours to come home from the kill 
ing of Asians to the healing... of this land.
Senator McGovern charged that what ails 
our country today is not an absence of 
worthy founding ideals, and suggested that 
finding the road to restored health neces
sitated a making of all Americans par
ticipants in our national life. In conclusion, 
he summoned the wisdom of Ralph Waldo 
Emerson: This time, like all times, is a very 
continued on p. 6, col. 1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, November 18, 19712
*
Editor's Note
I had a hunch that he was shy, basically 
shy, that is, not socially terrified, mind you, 
able to cope with social situations, but basi
cally just a pleasantly introverted, intelligent 
guy with an enormous toothy grin and a calm 
voice. But nothing dynamic.
While we spoke in his office he fidgeted 
with a couple of rubber-bands. And when 
both of them broke, I knew that my hunch 
was correct. This man is no ogre; he fidgets 
with rubber-bands.. . and they break on him, 
too. Even the President has his hands stung.
At noon his clock chimed.
Its a nautical clock, he said. Do you 
like the sea?
No. I get sick on a waterbed.
Oh.
I couldnt help him, I didnt know how to 
alk about the sea. We had to continue talking 
about the Universitys budget.
As I watched him fidgeting with the two 
i ubber-bands, I thought about the time he 
called a special assembly of the entire Univeriity, and in the course of his address told it, I 
had lunch with some black students yesterday 
and I found out theyre really human beings. 
Everyone knew what he meant to say, but 
he hadnt said it. Meaning to do well, he had 
blundered into self-incrimination. God knows 
how many rubber-bands he fidgeted with and 
broke when he returned to his office, and just 
t at, wanting to talk about the sea.
Several days later a cartoon appeared in the 
t ampus newspaper showing him sitting in a 
jungle stew-pot, his glasses still on, watching 
the natives lighting the kindling under the pot 
aid dancing around him. Under the drawing 
ian the caption, I had lunch with some black 
students yesterday and I found out theyre 
really human beings.
When he saw that he left his office and 
went to the zoo alone, and walked, walked 
around the zoo for the rest of the day.
During our conversation I once digressed 
and asked him how he feels about criticism.
Gets pretty personal sometimes, I said 
sympathetically, hoping for a response. I got 
one.
Well yes, but it doesnt upset me, really. 
You just have to recognize that personal at
tacks are the firepower of weak arguments, 
and ignore them.
His new job is a better one. Was this one 
worth all the broken rubber-bands and soli
tary walks around the zoo?
Letter to Editor
we must try to imporve it or we are doing 
ourselves, as well as future students of the 
H&SS College, an injustice.
As for those students who have said grades 
will ruin the free school concept that they 
are trying to develop, isnt it hypocritical to 
refer to the school as free when you force 
other students to accept a grading system 
which they regard as harmful to their future?
Harry J. Sirockman
Alpha Phi Omega 
Airport 
Shuttlebus
Dear Doug:
In response to a letter concerning the 
H&SS grading system which I sent to Michi
gan Law School, Matthew P. McCauley, assis
tant dean of the law school, sent this reply: 
Although you do not indicate in your let
ter just what college you attend, I think it is 
fair to say that no matter what school it is the 
grading system which you describe will work 
to your disadvantage. We are engaged in at
tempting to select the best 370 students from 
more than 5,000 applications, and we find 
that we must rely heavily upon conventional 
grades. We shall do our best with what your 
record shows us, but lam apprehensive.
I think it would be grossly unfair to force 
H&SS students, who plan to attend graduate 
school, to accept the present grading system. 
In answer to those who will tell me (and 
already have told me) that the students in 
H&SS fought for the present system, and, 
therefore, must now accept it, I respond by 
saying the present system is just the first step 
in finding a truly equitable grading system and
On November 24, numerous students 
whose only desire is to flee the campus rou
tine as quickly as possible will board the 
Alpha Phi Omega Airport shuttlesbus at Morewood Gardens and Donner Hall.
Departure times from the campus are set at 
11:45. 2:15. 4:45 (Morewood) and 12:00, 
2:30 and 5:00 (Donner) because these times 
have been proven to be best for catching after
noon and early evening planes. The bus stops 
at Morewood 15 minutes before Donner de
parture time to accommodate the many 
women and fraternity men taking advantage 
of the service. The bus then proceeds to Don
ner Hall for Final loading.
The fare of $ 1.80 is computed on the basis 
of breaking even with all publicity costs and 
with a full bus. This entails a planned financial 
loss since a larger bus than the demand calls 
for is ordered to accomodate last-minute 
patrons. Alpha Phi Omegas aim is to provide 
the most convenient transportation to the 
airport, rather than to make a profit. The 
student who uses the bus gets door-to-door 
service at a cost far below the $ 12.50 cab fare.
nninnr\
I in I

Editor-m-Chief........................Doug Campbell
Busi ness Manager..................Beverly Noretsky
Design Director.....................Mahlon Lovett
News Editor.......................................Bob Boyle
Features Editor.............................Craig Collins
Sports Editor..................................Jude Heller
Photography Director ...............Neal Binstock
News Staff............Grace D'Alo, Jon Manon
Rich Lohmeyer, Terry Yudelson 
Renee Banks, Joel Schwartz 
Features Staff Terence Palso, Walter Koehler
Ron Lasser
Sports Staff Lauren Hutton, Jon Swierzewski 
Scotch Guard, Dennis Sullivan 
Jim Powers, Peter Schuller 
David Aber
Photography Staff . . Eliot Arons, Jay Caras 
Copy Staff . . . Lesie Bram, Marilyn ShenkE1
Business Staff:
National Advertising..................Alice Bright
Local Advertising.....................Mary Lipsett
Staff . . Eugene Kerekes, Mike Swartzlander
Pul shed every Thursday during the aca
demic year at CarnegieMellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15232. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie^ 
Mellon University. Telephone (412) 682- 
4557.
cinderthistle 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside

COLLEGE STUDENTS
Part-time and Christmas 
Employment Available.
Must be free two weekdays minimum 
from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. and all day 
Saturday.
PLEASANT PUBLIC CONTACT WORK
For interview call
MR. R. COSTEN
TUESDAYS and THURSDAYS 5-7:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 9 a.m. - 2 p.m.
Aspsrediec
DINNER THEATRE
CROSSROADS ROUTE II Md INT. II
WEDNESDAYS
THROUGH
SUNDAYS
Special Rsducod Ritas Available 
Fr Groups and Banquets
U PITTSBURGH,Call 471*4180
la THI VALLEY,Coll 929 .$151
Special Rates available for stu
dents, Wednesdays, Thursday, Sun
days only. Student Cards must be 
shown.
iiiiiiaiiiiiiHiiiaiiaiifiiiiiiiitiiiiifiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiitiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii,aif>iii,iiiiiiiiiiH4toiiiiiiiiiMiiii>i!?
FLYIN6
T
I GINO and PETE'S
411 South Craig St.  Oakland
The biggest and busiest I
Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
i 11 to 2 a.m. every dayPizzas Made to Order Hoagies
I Take Out Orders 682-8691 IBp iiiiiiiiiiiHaiiiiisiiiiiiiiiiiiii9iiiiiiiiiiiiiiai'iii<tt<itiiiiaiiiiiaiiaiiai'fiiiiiflH9iiiHSiiiiaitiiiiiiifiiiiriiiia.iiiiiiii'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, November 18, 19713
Announcements
At the present time, plans are being made
for this year's Spring Carnival Midway. If 
your group plans to participate on the Mid
way, we would appreciate a letter indicating 
your group's intention of participation. We 
would also appreciate it if you could, at this 
time, name a booth chairman to represent 
gf/our group. All letter of intent, including 
the name of a booth chairman, are to be 
received by Friday, November 19. Send all 
letters to Midway Committee, c/o Beta 
Sigma Rho.
This week and next, the faculty-course eval
uation will be conducted. Sponsored by A 
Phi 0, the service fraternity, this student 
survey has the purpose of fostering a greater 
^awareness of teaching quality in the univer
sity. Students are urged to encourage their 
instructors to cooperate with the evaluation, 
and are asked to be as honest as possible in 
their responses. Provision has again been 
made for the writing of subjective com
ments, in addition to the numerically-rated 
questions.
The results of last semester's evaluation 
f^re at the printer's now, and should be avail
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs
S15 $19 $29 $49
also 6x9s, 12x12, 12x15, etc.
STUDENT FURNITURE
Director chairs, butterfly chairs, 
lamps, etc. Larger furniture thru 
wholesale showrooms.
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut St., Sharfysidt
Open Daily 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) 
For Information call 621-1025
UNIVERSITY COFFEE HOUSE
hePitPsbeuieP rgum
CAFE TEL AVIV
Eveiy Sunday6 p.m. till ? ? 
Every Wednesday 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. (Lunch) 
at the Y-IKC Building 
315 South Bellefield Ave. 
Delicious Sandwiches 
A Barrel of Kosher DiHs 
OPEN STAGE 
Bring Your Guitar, etc.
A place to meet friends . . .
. .. Share ideas and feelings!
able here by Monday, Nov. 22, in ample 
time to assist students with pre-registration 
for the spring term.
Any comments or suggestions concerning 
the evaluation should be addressed to its 
chairman, Norman Abt, via Alpha Phi 
Omega, Box 100, campus mail.
The Society of Ukranaian Youth will present
"Intellectual Dissent in the Soviet Union 
by Dr. Michael S. Pap, Director, Institute for 
Soviet and East European Studies, John Car
roll University. The talk will be on Saturday, 
November 20, at 8:00 PM in the Science 
Hall Lecture Hall.
This year's International Fair, sponsored by
the Women's Service Organization, will be 
held on December 1, 2, and 3 in Skibo Lobby. 
It's a great chance to buy beautiful imported 
goods and do your Christmas gift shopping. 
Treat yourself and your friends to something 
out of the ordinary this year. Shop Inter
national!
1950 Rock & Roll stars, Zit Blemish and the
Hot Rods will appear at the Cats Cradle, this 
Saturday night, Nov. 20, at 10:20 PM.
Issue number one of the 1971-72 Carnegie
Technical is here. It's free. Pick it up at the 
Skibo Information Desk or at the main en
trances of Baker and Science Halls.
Foundation Head 
Grants TARTAN Preview 
Of Forthcoming Book
Shew DuWop
Hubie Walden III, educational innovator 
and director of the occasionally respected Las 
Vegas Foundation for Pass/Fail Grading, has 
released the galleys of his forthcoming book 
to the TARTAN
Entitled A Post-Graduate Survival Man
ual for Pass/Fail Students, Waldens book 
provides a listing of career opportunities avail
able to those who really have no degree be
yond a high school diploma. It also includes 
quite practical How-to instructions for 
newcomers to all these fields.
Asked why he wrote the book, Walden 
said, / feel a strong obligation towards all 
those students whose transcripts are now 
marked pass/fail as a result of my Founda
tions influence. I intend to make it up to 
them. I spent several weeks talking with 
Albert Speer before writing this book. 
With the publication of the Survival Man
ual,  Walden will resign from his directorship 
of the Las Vegas Foundation and devote full 
time to his South American Patent Medicine 
Corporation.
The following is an excerpt from chapter 
one, How to Drive a Taxicab: A Career as a
Junior Transportation Engineer:
A career as a Junior Transportation Engi
neer is open to Pass/Fail students in any of 
Americas major cities. This Public Chauffering, vulgarly known as hack-pushing or 
driving cab, presents unskilled, hard-core 
unemployables with tremendous professional 
opportunity.
While the mechanical procedures of this 
profession can be mastered in a day-use of 
the radio, meter, and the location of cab 
standsthere are more complex and subtle 
human aspects to this profession. This 
chapter sets them forth.
Always adjust your apparent intelligence 
to a level below the passengers. (An ex
ception may be made to this rule with bother
some drunken passengers.) NO ONE WANTS 
TO RIDE WITH AN INTELLIGENT CAB 
DRIVER. Remember always that to passen
gers the cab is more than a means of transpor
tation; it is a symbol of luxury that reinforces 
their illusions of importance. At no time 
should you destroy a passengers illusions of 
importance, unless you are willing to forsake 
the tip.
For the sake of your own highly-educated 
dignity, it is suggested that, at times, you 
launch a ferocious intellectual-verbal attack 
upon a passenger whose illusions of impor
tance become unbearable. Since this sort con
siders Junior Transportation Engineers a case 
of regressive evolution, they will be totally 
continued on p. 6, col. 1
Jon MactJ ciue idncp . tJa66 Jon ,cnpJntJl 
The NIXON THEATRE Presents 
The Pittsburgh Premiere of
-PIUS
STRAVINSKY'S SYMPHONY OF PSALMS
Choreographed by Fernand Nault
6 DAYS ONLY! NOV. 30 TO DEC. 5
TUES., WED., THURS. ot 8:30; FRI. at 7:15 & 10:15 
SAT. at 2:30 & 8:30; SUN. at 2:30
Prices (Tax led.)ORCHMEZZBALCONY
Tues. thru Sat. Ewes 00$9.00$6 00, $5.00,$4.00
Sat. and Sun. Mats$7.00S7.C0$5.00. S4.00.$3.00
SEATS ON SALE 
AT NIXON THEATRE, All National Record 
Marts and Hilton Hotel Ticket Agency
.MAIL ORDERS ALSO ACCEPTED v/nwtnj .  -----------Make checks or money orders payable to N1JON THEATRE and mall to: Nixon Theatre, Attn. TOMMY, 54 Liberty Ave Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. Please enclose stamped, self-addressed envelope. ______ ___________
osufTm osuits SisEATstPitm 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
Nh OhWB XWF OhIXCO BHIhNOCBhOD
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE 
Phone: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Mott Items
SEATS NOW AT BOX OFFICE
By the winner of the 1970 Nobel Prize for Literature
9Ste9evro 
AcpNFFFD ish;Wh
OXE DAY
IK THE UFE OF IYA.\ liKMSOVK H
^COURTENAY*Alexander Solzhenitsyn's
lLat v9; Ga sMt Ubt Lb GW9a vtaGhLWGyMu 9pIP-R gnPd-JAMES MAXWELL/ERIC THOMPSON t* ARNE aLovmyFiN * RONAiDMARWOOO I,. , Mnwfcon tGH.lON AITKEN inmi t* ALEXANOER SOLZHENITSYN/ * THELMA CONNELLtn SVEN NYKVIST RICHARD PACK HOWARD G BARNESpmduc to cv w 0,CASPER WREDEJA LEONTES PROOUCTON NORSK FILMS - EASTMAN COLOR
(0|^>"G
SHADYSIDE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, November 18,1971
Palso
One of the hazards of creating a motion 
picture dealing with the life of an actual per
son is the fact that no matter how wellmade 
the film is, the craftsmanship and artistry 
which went into its creation may be unjustly 
overlooked if the picture is not historically 
accurate. This is just what may happen to the 
film JOE HILL, for while the events which it 
portrays may not be exactly true to life, it is 
still one of the most lyrically beautiful films 
which this writer has seen this year.
JOE HILL was written, directed and pro
duced by Bo Widerberg, the Swedishjilmmaker who created ELVIRA MADiGAN. 
JOE HILL clearly proves that Widerbergs ear
lier effort was no fluke, and that this artist has 
clearly mastered the technical aspects of his 
craft. Widerberg carefully structured each 
shot in this film with the result that there are 
very few sequences in the picture which are 
not of themselves almost perfectly done. 
When all of these sequences were put to
gether, great care was taken to assure that 
they would all couple perfectly; that there 
would be no jarring transitions, or quick cuts 
to ruin the flow of the film. The result of all of 
this painstaking attention to detail is that JOE 
HILL becomes more than just a film bio
graphyit becomes a visual lyrical ballad 
about a man who believed enough in a cause 
to give his life for it.
If one looks at the film in this light, then it 
is far easier to excuse Widerberg the free hand
he has taken with history. JOE HILL is not an 
historical drama, it is instead a highly success
ful attempt to present the romanticized ver
sion of life of one of the early martyrs of the 
labor movement in this country.
Joe Hill is the hero of this film. To Wider
berg, Hill represents far more than just a man 
who finds himself dying for what he believes 
in. Hill emerges from this film as being the 
symbol of all of the little men everywhere 
who dared to clash against the system only to 
be martyered not only by the Establishment, 
but also, and perhaps more horribly, by the 
very groups which they went to the grave 
supporting.
Hill is sold out so that in death he will mean 
far more than he ever did while he was alive. 
To emphasize this, Widerberg shows him to be, 
little more than an ordinary man concerned 
with seeing that everyone is given an adequate 
share of the wealth which they work to pro
duce. It is here, however, that he allows his 
film to falter for he never lets his audience see 
the intensity of Joes convictions. It is very 
easy to know which side he is on, but the 
viewers neve-,* really get to know Hill. He is the 
one on the screen leading strikes, singing songs 
against labor, and getting beaten up, yet he 
never really becomes clearly three dimen
sional. Hill seldom really becomes an individual-he is presented rather as a walking meta
phor searching for America who comes to find 
only betrayal, death, and enshrinement in
stead. While Widerberg may have meant to 
portray Hill in this manner, this decision was 
definitely an error, and should have been rea
lized as such. It would have been far better if 
Hill had been clearly portrayed as a person 
whom the audience could easily identify with, 
and then made into a larger-than-life charac
ter. Winderberg made his error when he forgot
that it is a lot harder for an audience to 
empathize with a symbol than it is for them to 
identify with a real individual.
It is extremely unfortunate that Widerberg 
let his presentation of Hills character marr 
this film because, outside of this and a rather 
clumsy hand-held camera shot of the Statue 
of Liberty at the beginning of the picture, the 
film may well have been absolutely perfect. 
Widerberg has a feeling for finely finishing and 
polishing which few other filmmakers possess. 
His decision to shoot his film in English has 
proved risky for other foreign directors, but 
Widerberg brought if off beautifully. He even 
had the genius to star a genuine English speak
ing Swedish actor in the lead, thus assuring 
that his main character would have an authen
tic Swedish accent and not one given him by 
dubbing.
Thommy Berggren is perfect as Joe Hill. 
His speech patterns progress just as they 
should from being awkward at first when he 
has just come to the United States, to being 
more assured by the end of the film. His 
characterization of Hill is as believable as the 
script allows him to make it, and, in fact, he is 
so good that while his part is kept at far too 
low a key, he never once lets his audience 
become bored. Berggren is on the screen 
throughout most of the film, and keeping the 
audience interested in his activities without 
once letting their attention lag is in itself quite 
a remarkable feat. It appears that Berggren 
could have done a lot more with his role if he 
had been allowed, and it is just too bad that he 
wasnt given a chance.
While JOE HILL may greatly disturb those 
who insist upon historical accuracy, the filmgoer who misses seeing it for that reason is 
depriving himself of an all too rare oppor
tunity to see almost perfect cinematic tech
nique in a flawed, but nevertheless very beau
tifully executed motion picture.
Films
CMU Campus 0
S.T.A.G. (Underground and Experimental),
Activities Board. Friday, Doherty Hall 2210, 
7:00, 9:00 PM. Admission: $.75 with AB film 
card.
Two Daughters, Film Arts. Thursday, Porter 
Hall, 4:30, 7:00,9:30PM.
Valley of the Dolls, MDC. Saturday. Doherty 
Hall 2210, 5:30,8:00,10:30 PM. FREE.

Theatres
French Connection (R)
' Chatham. 261-1001.
Billy Jack (GP)
Forum. 421-6400.
Going Home (GP)
Gateway. 281-9511.
Sacco and Vanzetti (GP)
Guild. 521-0700. 9
It Only Happens to Others (GP)
King's Court. 261-2334.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (GP) 
Shadyside. 682-1901.
Between Classes or at Study Break
-DoYBBHwDOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3919 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE , NORTH OF ETNA 79It PENN AVENUE
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos and Pipes 
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORMS ST. M1404S
Nationally Advertised Pipes
SOMMER EMPLOYMENT
DON'T WAIT UNTIL IT'S TOO LATE!!
INQUIRE ABOUT SUMMER JOB POSSIBILITIES
THE BUREAU OF PLACEMENTS TEN SKIBO
t)
a project of UNIVERSITY of WISCONSIN - EXTENSION & 
the CORPORATION for PUBLIC BROADCASTING
earpiay1Ahgyr1
... is offering $15,000 in 20 purchase awards during a competition which closes 
Morch 30, 1972.
...will buy 60 80 additional scripts tliif yeor outside the competition . . . . 
starting now!
... will produce oil these scripts for broadcast nationally on non-commercial rodio. 
. . . especially favors scripts under 20 minutes in length. However, scripts up to 
30 minutes will be considered.
Send scripts (with self-addressed envelope) to: earpiay, Radio Hall, Madison, Wis. 53706
DIMENSIONS IN COMMUNICATION
ENCOUNTER GROUP
This weekend group will explore communication, 
understanding and trust. The goal: to increase personal 
ability to "come across in real-world situations.
Ike Powers, the group leader, has been a writer, laborer, 
teacher and lumberjack. Now a priest, he trained in 
Personal Growth Leadership at National Training 
Laboratories and uses experiential methods in personal 
growth workshops across the country.
The Dimensions in Communication encounter 
group workshop happens Dec. 3-4. There are also evening 
workshops lasting one night to two months, parties, yoga 
and a weekly "open house." For information, call:
1 [i\ Center for Human Development
C 11 v 217 North Craig StreetA fl I / Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213412/687-1400
Ois-beg, m-stbeg, TeEitmPseEbeg BogiP-it
*

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, November 18,19715
^Realistic uzxle iPaqe*
'SUUI0C
OPTICAL ILLUSION !f
N-bbTblEbeg mitvim o-Mg mPTEiePm biPPit?
uiiitis;illjiiir
SKIBOMcDONALDS*
oSXWGh-Y-GOXM
Siti yoT uTmP mPstP wbPP-i wotE sP P-i 
Pof, seE, by -segbeg oei liPPit sP s Pbui, 
Pski ibg-P mPifm Po sttbvi sP P-i boPPou . 
Oiuiubit P-sP isbeEbvbETsl mPif uTmP 
slmo bi s wotE.
THETARTAN
suino3'
WHAT JOB DOES PRESIDENT STEVER REALLY WANT? 
Select the path which will lead him to his rightful destiny!
RULES:
1. Diamond shaped boxes are factors you must consider in your search.
2. Oblong boxes are possible iobs you 
may be offered after making decisions.
3. Circular boxes are 'dead ends.' You may 
not travel through a dead end to a different box.
NEWSPAPER
Food Stamp 
Follies
The Follies are back again, no thanks V 
Mr. Lovely, with another culinary crescendo.
Have you ever tried to make macaroni and 
cheeseand have it come out right? Somehow 
my attempts always failed, until I found The 
Way. And now you too can make perfect 
M & o every time ...
MACARONI AND CHEESE
I Boil H pound (2 cups) macaroni 
Drain
II White Sauce:
1 cup hot milk
1 Tbsp butter
2 Tbsp flour 
Na tsp salt
1/8 tsp pepper
Scald milk. Melt butter in saucepan over 
low heat or in double boiler. Add flour, stir
ring constantly until mixture thickens. 
Season.
III 1 cup cheddar cheese, grated 
butter
garlic and onion powder 
pinch of curry powder
Mix white sauce, drained macaroni, season
ings, and % cup cheese. Place in buttered 
baking dish. Top with rest of cheese, dot with 
butter. Bake 15 minutes in preheated 400 
degree oven.
Xemwitm:
Optical Illusion: Pitt University 
Oumge-a-word: It is impossible 
to turn THE TARTAN into 
NEWSPAPER.

---------------------------------------------------

he Tartan, Thursday, November 18, 19716
uPbeTiE ftou f. C
jod one if one knows what to do with it. 
senator fielded a number of questions from 
le audience. Consistently articulate, the 
uestions ranged topics from Middle East taccs to future war reparations to Vietnam, 
'hen quesied as to his attitude towards inteation via bussing, he noted that bussing was 
at an artificial and inadequate instrument. 
ollowing the official conclusion of the rally, 
snator McGovern remained to engage in 
ice-to-face discussion on an informal basis.
uPbeTiE ftou f. 3
nprepared for your eloquent attack and you 
ill win an absolute victory and cause them to 
iel total humiliation:
. .. How come yuns dont know where 
elix Street is at?
Reply over your right shoulder, with digity. Why, not How come. Yuns, is not a 
ord. And at is unnecessary.
I said, how come yuns dont know where 
elix Street is at?
Turn around now, and look down your 
ase. Speak English, please. Do you mean 
HY dont I know where Felix Street IS?
And by the way, brains, define existential, 
quote Nietzsche, whats iambic pentameter, 
explain Blow-Up ... Stay in your place 
and dont ask questions.
On the whole, however, your passengers 
will be agreeable sorts who recognize the cab 
is your kingdom, in spite of the high rates they 
pay to ride in it. Do your best to put these 
people at ease. Confide in them. Tell them 
that you have been dealing with nuts all day 
long. Tell them how much you appreciate 
their sanity. This supports their illusions of 
individuality and wisdom. It also yields large 
tips.
A primary responsibility of a Junior Trans
portation Engineer is to refrain from farting 
while a passenger is in the cab. It is highly 
unethical to drop a rose and expect your 
passenger to pay for the privilege of smelling 
it. Circuitous navigation is forgivable; but 
crepitation is inexcusable. If you should fart 
when with fare, turn the meter off immedi
ately, and upon arrival to the destination 
charge the passenger only for the fare regis
tered at the time of the fart. Professional 
tradition forbids the acceptance of a tip at the 
conclusion of a fart fare.
Classified Ads
FOR SALE: Rekocut turntable and
Harmon/Kardon amp. Older models, need 
some work. $25. 521-8688.
Wanted: Will pay $30 for fraternity-type
beer mug that says "Carnegie Tech," "Car
negie Institute of Technology," etc. Will 
reimburse for shipping. Contact: R. Grafrath, 651 Cambridge Rd., Paramus, NJ 
07652.
Roomates Unlimited--A service agency-Your
solution 566-1277.
WANTED: President for prestigious Univer
sity. Must work cheap. High school diploma 
preferred. Call 621-2600, ext. 200.
FOR SALE: Guitarepiphone eldorado
(jumbo flat-top) with Martin case. Excellent 
condition. Call 421-6285 evenings.
OFFENSEFIRSTTEAM
QBBenjaminPKA
BBWeinerATO
BBWegenerPKA
ENDTaylorPKA
END(tie)HillP&S
END(tie)LeggPKT -
CENTERBenjamin, M.PKA
DEFENSE
RUSHERDoxyPKA
RUSHERPenickP&S
LBBenjamin, M.PKA
LBErskineSN
DBNilesBTP
DB (tie)WegenerPKA
DB (tie)FineganBTP
MVPBarry BenjaminPKA
OFFENSESECONDTEAM
QBHollisBlack Magics
BBWhitingSAE
BBBroomfieldBlack Magics
ENDSeleneP&S
CENTERHamiltonP&S
DEFENSE
RUSHERSorrellP&S
RUSHERFennellBTP
LBMikusBTP
LB (tie)CrawlandATO
LB (tie)FranksSAE
DBTaylorPKA
MVPJeff HollisBlack Magics
Grand Opening
uits;ljrsiljSatl 
WE OPENED A NEW SKI SHOP
Dont Miss This!
Jacobs Mi
5219 Baum Blvd., Near Liberty Ave.
Two Blocks from Baum & Morewood in Shadyside
IHS^SKIIEU
36" OF PACKED BARGAINS. 
. . . SHOPPING IS GOOD TO EXCELLENT
We Honor:
 MASTER CHARGE PNB  REICH - MARKS
GRAND OPENING SALE
TO GET ACQUAINTED WE'RE PRACTICALLY SKI BOOTS!! ThePi this Pbutrr giving away these incredible items : :
PANTS
 Last year's HEAD pants, were $50  now $29.95!!
 Assorted in-booth styles only $9.95!!
PARKAS
 GIANT SALE on last year's models.
 Also gloves and mittens.  SAVE.
 GEZE Bindings  were $37.50 . . . now $24.95
and MORE ... Come See ...
 Koflach Racers were $45.00  Now $29.95
 6 Pair only of Koflach Expo Comp's (Last Year's) 
were $135  Now Sale price $89.95
 Large Boots assorted models, last year $120  
now only $79.
SKIS
 Head-Killy 660's, 5 pair while they last, were $175 
 now $99.99
 Last year's skis and some new  greatly reduced.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Thursday, November 18, 19717
Varsity Football 
Completes 
Losing Season
Scotch Guard
The Tartans completed their season last 
Saturday at Case Western Reserve, losing to 
the Spartans, 29-19. Certainly CMU was the 
better of the two teams, but the only offense 
that could be generated came through the air. 
The defensive line also played well, and the 
backfield showed improvement.
CMU took an early 7-0 lead on a Squires to 
Carlock pass, set up by a CWRU pass interfer
ence penalty in the endzone. Case then tied it 
up, 7-7, but on the ensuing kickoff, Bob Cur
tis scampered 93 yards for one of the most 
exciting plays of the season. The point was 
missed, so the score was 13-7.
Then the CWRU defense got its first of 2 
touchdowns, proving that the defense does 
win games. A Squires pass was intercepted at 
midfield and returned for the touchdown, and 
so at halftime, CWRU led, 14-13.
There was really never any doubt that the 
Tartans would come back. In the third quar
ter, the CMU running attack really started to 
click, with Lombardo and Bell gaining about 5 
yards a clip. But the ball crossed the goal line 
only once, it was the Spartans who pushed it 
across.
Midway through the fourth quarter Brian 
Carlock faked the world and was completedly 
alone in the endzone and Squires hit him for 6 
more. The try for two never materialized as 
Squires was caught rolling out to pass.
Perhaps the key series came with 5 minutes 
remaining. It was CMLPs ball at the Reserve 
30, with the Tartans facing a 3rd down and 
one situation. An incomplete pass and a 
quarterback sneak ran for Vi yard still left the 
Tartans short. So, by the time CMU got the 
ball back there was little time left. The Tar
tans were forced to go to the air, Rich Squires 
was again intercepted and the ball was re
turned to the 2 yard line and seconds later the 
score was 29-19. With less than 60 seconds 
left, the season was indeed over for Big Red.
The 1971 season is history iwth the Tar
tans suffering a 3-6 mark. With a season like 
this behind us, the only thing to do is to look 
to next year.
Hockey Club 
To Open 
Season 
In Erie
night at the Alpine Arena in Edgewood. The 
Arena is only about 15 minutes from campus 
by car. Directions may be obtained at the 
Skibo Information desk. Student admission is 
fifty cents with your CMU ID card.
Coach Larry Jacobs and the twenty or so 
dedicated CMU icemen have been practicing 
since early October. They hope you will sup
port the team by attending the game and 
rooting CMU on to victory.
CMUs second league game isnt until next 
semester, but the team will continue to prac
tice and drill in preparation.
In the eight team league, CMU has two 
shots to beat Pitt in a sport, and the hockey 
club plans to do it. So lend your support and 
come see an exciting hockey game, Tuesday, 
Dec. 7 at 8:30 PM at the Alpine Arena.
Future games will be announced through 
the TARTAN and posters around the campus. 
Support the red and white CMU icemen.
Civil Hammers 
Out to Squash 
Sigma Nu
Jon Flicker
I.M. Squash Commissioner
The Civil Hammers, using any 3 of the 6 
men on their roster without apparent loss of 
effectiveness, need only to defeat Sigma Nu 
on Thursday to win the I.M. squash cham
pionship. Should Sigma Nu (4-1) hand the 
Hammers their first loss, a playoff on Mon
day, Nov. 22 will be necessary.
The I.M. squash season has been a disap
pointment from the standpoint of team parti
cipation-only 4 teams entered. A greater 
turnout would help equalize competition and 
enable more people to learn a sport that can 
be enjoyed for many years.
FOR FREE
Pregnancy
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Call
'622-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
Aspred eeeei
rr wvou-D fit TheP 
IF THIS PROGRAM ?vorkeo rue nesT 
L_TfNe through*. 
j Bor IT **j rT^
fTr &tp ?
MY CHA^ieS* WrtV Aeel 
roc *>ATttV JI JUST U>CMT DOfcyN *. I--- -------
r
eue*?
^mtj
(SCO ! THt twrVOL-fc ( 
WS rtM i Stivi TTIWO) 
ITStuF OFF* _J----Y
CUCK
Bo AM
The CMU Hockey Club is preparing for its 
first game which will by played this Friday, 
November 12. The Tartan Icemen take on 
Gannon College in Erie, Pa. at 10 PM. This 
game in a non-league outing in which the red 
and white hope to sharpen their shots for their 
league opener. Gannon College has proven to 
be a tough opponent for CMU in the past and 
this game should help the Tartans warm up 
while playing a rough game.
The red and white open league play in the 
newly formed Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Club Hockey Association on Tues
day night December 7. CMU will take on Penn 
State, McKeesport campus at 8:30 PM that

---------------------------------------------------

IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER.
For your next holiday you can be in London for $190. Rome $199. Paris 
$200. Or Greece $268.
These are just some ofTWAs low round trip fares for youths between the 
ages of 12 and 25.
Who knows how much longer theyll be in effect, so for more details call 
TWA.
And to help you save money when youre on vacation, send for TWAs new 
Getaway* Kit.
Its free and it will tell you where you can get...
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING 
FOR ONLY $4.30 A DAY.
Only TWA offers you the Stutelpass* It is a book of vouchers you can buy 
for 10,15, 20,25, etc. days for just $4.30 a day.
Each voucher entitles you to a bed, breakfast and sightseeing in 50 Euro
pean Cities. No advance reservations necessary.
The kit also tells you where to...
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY.
In over 15 European Cities, you can drive a car all around the city for just 
$3.65 a day, plus gas and 4V2<t per kilometer.
And how to save money with...
SPECIAL SKI TOWS.
TWA has someofthe lowestpricedski tours to Vail, Aspen, and Steamboat.
Or if you want to ski the Alps, take a TWA tour. It saves you over 50% of , 
the cost of travelling alone.
The kit also tells you how to get a...
GETAWAYCARD.
Youll receive an application blank. Theres no minimum income require
ment. And no yearly maintenance fee.
Use your Getaway Card to charge airfare, Stutelpasses, tours, almost 
everything. And then take up to two years to pay.
Now whats even easier than getting away for the holidays, is getting a 
Getaway Kit.
Just use the coupon.
[""TWA, P.O. Box 402, Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735
Send all the information you have on bargain
I vacations in Europe and the U.S.A. to:
I Name_____________________________________
Address___________________________________
J City____________State________Zip Code_____ ^
Service marks owned exclusively hv TWA.
Contact your campus representative Jon Swierzewski at 683-2500

---------------------------------------------------

About Randy Newman
i firr TT Trii T" - r ia HHHHHfttttt Nt t tttttttttttttttttttttttt Mttttt!
rarely gives a concert
. . . the full emergence of a leading innovater in rock and roll.
(Oollbeg DPoei)
... a very important songwriter, superb music.
(W. Y. Bbuim)
. . . one of the most truly underated musical talents in the world.
(Xtbzoes OifTblb)
Randy Newman is a phenomenon, one of a kind, probably the most authentic pop 
music talent ro come along in the last 20 years.
(I-blsEilf-bs Fsbly Wiwm)
. . . mounting acclaim as one of the best young pop composers.
( Wiwmwiik)
. . . one of the most original and imaginative songwriters of today.
(SbP IstsEi)
. . . the most unique and consistently impressive songwriter to have evolved from the 
new popular music.
(WsP-iePoff, oomuofolbPse)
. . . Newman is one of the tightest, most aware, sophisticated rock people around.
(obebeesPb heATbtit)
. . . Newman wove a spell over the SRO crowd.
(rTmboe)
In admiring a attendance at one of his rare concerts at 
the Bitter End in New York were Bob Dylan, Barbra 
Streisand, Odetta, and Alan Jay Lerner.
"She combines purity with a certain toughness - a strong 
voice, some tasty bottleneck guitar, and piano playing and 
song writing very similar to Carole King's."
the activities board presents 
Randy Newman and 
Bonnie Raitt in concert
Weds. Dec. 8  Skibo Ballroom
*1*50 with I.D.
2 Shows 7:30 and 10:30
