TARJAN
November 8, 1977 Volume 78, Number 10 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Prime music option dropped
Richard Van Horn, Vice President for Business Affairs, explains the tuition increase.
by Paul Henderson
Robert Page, head of the CMU Music 
Department, announced the cancellation of 
that departments Music Education option 
to students at a SAC meeting, held Friday 
in the Fine Arts Building.
The option consisted of two programs, 
a 5-year undergraduate program and a 6- 
year masters program. A student would 
choose to enter either program in his sophomore year. After completing the option, a 
student would graduate with a degree in 
both Performance and Education, thus 
giving him the credentials to become ,a 
teacher. The program is valuable to many 
music majors who plan a career in teaching.
Page cited the philosophy of the Uni
versity and financial constraints as the basis 
for his decision. University policy is toVan Horn explains $300 tuition increase
by Gregory Middleman
Dr. Richard Van Horn, Vice President 
for Business Affairs, recently explained the 
criteria on which the $300 tuition increase 
for next year was based.
Van Horn commented that the first cri
teria looked at in a tuition increase, is 
how much income we should generate 
from tuition. He added that the extra 
revenue raised because of the tuition in
crease will go to faculty salaries, audio
visual supplies, and other such operating
expenses. Capital improvements, Van 
Horn said, are paid for through gifts. 
Van Horn said that the student-full time 
faculty ratio has risen. Because of this, 
one Student Senate member feels that fac
ulty salary increase can be absorbed easily, 
since there are more student paying for 
less teachers.
Part-time faculty fill in
Van Horn, adde 1 however, that the 
number of part-time faculty members has 
risen drasitically over the past few years,
Minorities await Bakke decision
Exactly four weeks ago Wednesday, the 
opening arguments in Regents of the Univ. 
of California against Bakke were presented 
before the Supreme Court. The ultimate 
outcome of the so-called reverse discrimi
nation case will undoubtedly affect mi
nority admissions policies at CMU and 
graduate, undergraduate and professional 
schools nation-wide. Depending on the 
Supreme Court Justices interpretation of 
the cases constitutionality, the ruling may 
affect many affirmative action" hiring 
policies. It could be the most important 
civil rights decision since Brown vs. the 
Topeka Board of Education
Allan Bakke, a white applicant to the 
university of California Medical 
School was refused.
He learned that less qualified students
were accepted to the school, because of 
their minority status. Schools are required 
to take a certain percentage of minorities 
(Blacks, Hispanic-Americans, women, and 
native Americans) to their school, in order 
to qualify to receive federal subsidies 
Bakke' had contested the decision in 
California courts, and won. The school
has appealed the decision, and lost at every 
level, until now.
When in court hist month, Bakkes de
fense lawyer, Reynold Colvin, concentra
ted on arguments relevant to the immedi
ate case, trying to avoid broader implica
tions of favoritism toward minorities,
Under the universitys special admission 
program. 16 out of 100 places in the fresh
man class were set aside for applicants of 
disadvantaged backgrounds who were con
sidered by a screening committee separate
ly from other candidates and did not have 
to compete with Bakke as a result. Bakke 
was therefore rejected essentially on the 
basis of race a clear violation of his four
teenth amendment rights.
Archibald Cox, who represented the 
school, emphasized that the answer. . . 
will determine, perhaps for decades, 
whether members of minorities are to have 
meaningful access to higher education in 
the professions, or are to be reduced to
continued on page 2
especially in CFA, MIS, CIT, and GS1A. 
He defends this practice, claiming that it is 
beneficial to get high quality profes
sionals to teach at professional school. 
He cited an example from the music de
partment, where members of the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra teach parttime. Since our music department is 
becoming performance oriented, [it is 
an advantage] to hire performers part 
time, Van Horn stated.
Additionally, the tuition has increased 
at a slower rate than personal disposable 
income. Van Horn claims. He explained, 
that using 1967 as a 100% base year, 
tuition has only risen 80% of the level that 
personal disposable income has. Personal 
disposable income is the amount of money 
a family has to spend, and usually rises 
fas4er than inflation. According to Van 
Horn, it is the intention of the University 
administration to keep tuition raises con
stant with personal disposable 
income increases, so education does not
become increasingly expensive.
Faculty salaries competitive
Faculty salaries. Van Horn cited, are 
average to upper quartile for a private 
research university, which is what CMU 
considers itself. He added that research
continued on page 2
wards a more specialized education in all 
fields, and according to Page, more special
ization was need in the Music Department. 
The decision had to be made between 
making the school performanceor education-oriented, and he chose performance. 
Page intends to upgrade the performance 
curriculum and turn out well-trained pro
fessional musicians. Music education does 
not fit into the plan, and Page stresses that 
the Music Department cant do every
thing for everyone. He hopes the new 
plan will make CMU a school to be reck
oned with by other fine performanceoriented schools.
Page accepted full responsibility for his 
decision. He said that he sought advice 
from faculty and alumni, yet disclosed 
that the Education option was one that 
others higher up in the Administration 
do not choose to continue.
The cancellation will be effective Sep
tember 1978. Since a student only chooses 
to enter the program in his sophomore 
year, the present freshmen will not be al
lowed to enter, although many chose CMU 
because of the education option. Many 
students complained of the unfairness of 
that situation and Page said he would re
consider letting freshmen enter the pro
gram. He expects to come to a decision be
fore November 16 (pre-registration).
Page also stated that the Kiltie Band 
would be phased out. He said that a per
formance school does not need a band 
since a band is a teacher education tool. He 
chooses to replace the band with a sym
phonic wind ensemble.
When asked by a student if any faculty 
would be affected by this decision, he said 
it was none of the students business. An 
inquiry into the finances of the department 
elicited a similar response.
Many students are upset by the deci
sion, especially freshmen who came to 
CMU specifically for the Education option 
The 47 students already in the program are 
worried that the quality of the program 
will decline as they finish up their educacontinued on page 2inside
Inews...
Is Science Hall falling? (pg. 2)
Senate resolve donor conflict (pg.3) 
AIESEC - what is it7 (pg. 4)
ientertainment...
The life of author Lillian Heilman is 
beautifully dramatized in film Julia 
(pg17).
International Show opens at Scaife 
(pg18).sports...
Tartans waste tomcats ninth life 35-3 
(Pg24)
For Buggy Nurds Only (pg. 23)
folio...
The Wherrett Room stage was the setting for an open forum, where the four mayoral candidates 
spoke on Friday. (I. to r.) Howard Beck (Socialist Workers), Richard Caliguiri (Independent), 
Joseph Cosetti (Republican), and Cyril Wecht, representing Thomas Foerster (Democrat), an
swered questions and spoke to an audience of about 125 people.
If the dorm rooms could only 
(or can they?) (pg. 9)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANNovember 8, 1977
NEWS BRIEFS
Harlan Ellison to speak at CMU
Harlan Ellison, fiction writer and critic, 
will speak at CMU Monday, November 14,
3 PM in the Skibo Ballroom.
Ellisons varied career has included 
his well-known scriptwriting successes for 
The Outer Limits, Ghost Story, and Star 
Trek. His Starlost episode for Star 
Trek, Phoenix Without Ashes won 
Writers Guild award for Best Script 
but was never aired.
Ellisons writing achievements have also 
netted him six Hugo and two Nebula 
science fiction awards. Some of his more
popular works are : I Have No Mouth and 
I Must Scream, an early collection of 
award-winning stories; Dangerous Visions 
a classic anthology he edited; The Glass 
Teat, an underground media book, and 
Deathbird Stories, his latest collection 
which includes Whimper of Whipped 
Dogs for which he is doing a screenplay 
Ellison will participate in several closed 
workshops throughout the afternoon of 
November 14, concluding his visit with 
the 8 PM AB lecture. The bookstore is 
now carrying most of his material.
Hall will not fall
D
Is SCH 7500 in danger of falling on top 
some unsuspecting computer nerd? 
No, says Joseph McNalley, Director of 
Engineering of Physical Plant.
Some rumors were spreading that the 
lecture room, which hangs over the fifth 
floor entrance of Science Hall, would need 
to have support columns placed outside or 
the structure would topple over. McNalley 
said that he is not aware of any problems 
tvith the structure, and no work will be
done on it until there is evidence that it is
defective.
McNalley explained that each building 
on campus is assigned a building manager 
and a building inspector who regularly 
check buildings for any cracks or other 
signs of structural wear. If any defects were 
found in a building, Physical Plant would 
hire a consultant to assess the extent of the 
damage and the urgency of corrective 
work.
Bakke appeal heard
continued from page 1
trivial numbers [once more].
Colvin suggests that discrimination now, 
solely on the basis of race to compensate 
for a history of unjust racial discrimation is 
unacceptable and comparable to two 
wrongs making a right.
The 16 place quota, as Colvin de
scribes it, seems to be the focus of the 
issue. The university calls the number a 
goal to work toward rather than a quota.
Cox argued that the purpose to in
crease the number of minority doctors 
justified the means as permissable. 
Racial discrimination, whether termed 
reverse or traditional, Colvin insisted, is 
improper regardless of the reason. By 
establishing a quota to assist minority stu
dents get in, the school was keeping out 
equally or better qualified non-minority 
students. The university had yet to prove 
as well, that its goals could not be acheived 
through means less detrimental to ... 
rights.
Although it is impossible to guess the 
extent of the decision or when it might be
Morewood renovations begin, more to come
According to Bill Dillon, Director of 
Auxilliary Services, it will eventually cost 
$1,000,000 to renovate the Morewood 
Gardens dormitory complex.
Despite this great expense of renovating 
Morewood, Dillon asserts that it is a good
structure; worth renovating. He explain
ed that the cost of renovation is aboui 
30% of building a new dorm. Each residen
tial unit costs $6750 to build. Multiplying 
that number by 400, the approximate 
number of units in Morewood, one gets a
WANTED
*
C.M.U. STUDENTS FOR 
PART-TIME WORK 
IN FOOD SERVICE
EARN MONEY DURING THOSE 
HOURS MOST CONVENIENT FOR YOU
THE GRILL  KILTIE CAFE  
CATERING  KRESGE FACULTY 
DN. RM.  MOREWOOD CAFETERIA 
 BAKERY, DELI
APPLY FOOD SERVICE 
OFFICE
SKIBO  ROOM 62 
MON.-FRI. 5 TO 7 P.M.
product of $2,700,000, plus about $300,
000 for additional expenses. The total cost 
of a dormitory the size of Morewood 
would be about $300,000, then.
The renovations are being made accord
ing to a 5-year Capital Improvement Plan, 
$400,000 has been spent so far on masonry 
repairs ($90,000), boiler replacement for 
the heating system ($200,000), and the 
first phase of electric repairs ($62,000).
The improvements will continue next 
year with the second phase of the electrical 
system repairs, costing $100,000, and ele
vator safety returns in the elevator cars.
Dillon added that the University is con
sidering replacing the old elevator cars.
reached, the case is likely to take months.
Bakke will remain barred from medical 
school pending the outcome of the suit 
since he failed to establish that he would 
have been admitted in the absence of the 
racially conscious selection system as a 
result of his age and the fact that 37 per
sons apply for each opening.
If the Bakke wins the final round, then 
all affirmative action programs, providing 
increased consideration for minority entry 
into previously all white-dominated orga
nizations, will be illegal. This will necessi
tate the development of new programs to 
give minority candidates equal opportuni
ties, while respecting the rights of those 
in the majority.
Department to 
change emphasis
continued from page 1
tion requirements. Page stated that these 
students would be taken care off in their 
remaining years and that the. education 
program will be as good or better than 
at present. But students wonder if a pro
gram soon to be discontinued will still re
ceive as much attention as it should. They 
also worry that prospective employers will 
think the program substandard since it 
has been cancelled. Students are de
manding that a letter explaining the can
cellation be disseminated to the public and 
prospective employers.
Most students in the program are 
shocked that what they believed to be a 
good program is being phased out.
The SDC space normally seen in 
this column will not appear this week, 
since the SDC did not meet last Sunday. 
The column will return next week.
$300 tuition hike defended
continued from page 1
contracts alone account for 34 % of the 
University income, and keeping staff 
around for research purposes adds to the 
list of highly qualified persons around 
for part-time teaching.
Continuing on the universitys status,
ATTENTION! 
News Writing 
Seminar
Ken Service will 
teoch a 3-part 
seminar. First 
meeting Nov. 15.
Van Horn said that We believe that in 
quality were as good as MIT or Cal Tech, 
which is why tuition comparisons are 
often made with those universities.
However, the CMU tuition is low com
pared to other schools which many stu
dents consider to be more comparable. 
CMU has a $3400 tuition this year, while 
Case Western Reserve charges $3770,* 
Lehigh$3825, RPI-$42^0, and New York 
University-$3550.
When asked about the $8000 total cost 
for the 1981-82 academic year, Van Horn 
commented that that was a reasonable fig
ure. But, he continued, personal dispos
able income will increase 64% in that time 
period, while total expense will only in
crease 33%.
RESEARCH
Send only two dollars (to cover postage) 
for your copy of our latest mail-order 
cataolg of over 7,000 research papers.
 Quality Unsurpassed
 Fast, Dependable Service
 Speeches. Reports, etc.
All Materials Sold For Research Assistance Only
RESEARCH LIMITED. INC.
13'/ Sylvan Street 
Rutherford, New Jersey 07070 
201-939-1300
I
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,i

---------------------------------------------------

in uv ci I luci u, I yj t /  mn I mipaye o
? ???????????
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
Senates meeting November 3 was a 
melange of agitation, allocation and au
thorization.
Once again the blood drive riled many 
senators. As mentioned in last weeks TAR
TAN, there was a petition that called for a 
referendum vote on the issue, because 
commuters were being excluded from the 
competition for prize money.
Dave Roussos suggested to raise the 
prize money allocation from $300 to $450 
and allocate according to population repre
sentation. After a fifteen-minute argument 
on amending the original motion, Steve 
Belanich suggested that Senate drop the 
whole money thing. Tom Englemann 
suggested an amendment which stated that 
Senate would fund a party for those who 
donate or attempt to donate blood. Senate 
approved this amendment in order to quell 
the controversy. The party will be orga
nized by the Blood Drive Committee.
AB and Scotch n Soda received the 
$3,738 that they had requested for lighting 
equipment. It seems that the surplus flash
lights were impractical for larger produc
tions.
Dean Swank dashed his cigarette and 
announced that he was banning smoking 
during the film showings in DH 2210. 
Fines will be imposed for those who do not 
comply with this regulation.
John Lubon exercised his authority ai 
Student Government President and intro 
duced Charlene Reese as the new Chair 
person of Spring Carnival. Reese brings ex 
perience to the position, as she has been 
involved in past carnivals.
Ken Meinert remarked that enrollment 
increases in the colleges of CIT, MIS and 
CFA called for an increased representation 
in Senate. An extra seat will be added to 
each college mentioned, bringing the total 
number of senators to 24.
On the subject of elections last weeks 
Senate Murmurs slated the Senate elec
tions for November 15 and 16. Those are 
the dates, however, for the Central Blood 
Bank blood drive. Senate will hold their 
elections from 4-12 PM, November 17 and 
10-4 PM November 18th. Polls will be open 
in the Morewood lobby for Morewood and 
Mudge residents, in the Donner lounge for 
hill dorm residents, and in Skibo lobby for 
fraternity members and commuters.
Representatives
UNIVERSITY
OF
SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA
to be on campus 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18
Graduate study information - all 
fields of Letters. Arts & Sciences 
and Engineering. Special em
phasis on Sciences, Math and 
Engineering.
Contact 
Career Services 
and Placement
Berg expects MIS enrollment to rise
by Elliot Ohlberg
The new Mellon Institute of Science 
Dean, Dan Berg, answered questions from 
the TARTAN in a recent interview. This is 
part two of the two-part interview.
I think the [enrollment] decline is 
based on many [factors]. Certainly one 
of them has been the relatively poor job 
market that has existed [for scientists]; 
My own personal feeling is that it has bot
tomed out and has started to get better; 
its going to get much better. . . . That is 
'kind of a heavy factor in the perception of 
the students as to [which field] they wish 
to study.
... To some extent there has been an 
anti-intellectual, anti-scientific movement 
which I dont think has quite dissipated in 
intellectual circles.
. . . What were intending to do about 
the number of students includes several 
things. [We want to] bring to the atten
tion of students, their parents, and their 
counselors, the existing job and career op
portunities that develop from an education 
in science. . . . Public awareness of the 
strengths of what we, at CMU, are doing 
in science will attract students. . . But I 
also think that the growing perception of 
the job market will have its effect, too. 
This may take a few years but I think it is 
on its way. There are things we can do to
accelerate growth of MIS, but I think its 
going to happen naturally.
.... Another problem is facilities and 
space. By facilities, I mean equipment. 
You have to keep moving ahead, and that 
means having available to you the equip
ment thats on the leading edge of what
ever it is youre trying to study. . . Similar
ly, from an educational standpoint, we 
need to have continual improvements in 
our educational equipment levels. More
over, in terms of MIS being located with 
Carnegie-Mellon Institute of Research 
(CMIR), there is a space problem that we 
have to work toward improving.
MIS and CMIR are independent institu
tions, but we are mutually supportive. 
CMIR, if it is successful in its goal, will be
helping the University in a financial way as 
well as providing an outlet for some of 
the exciting developments that are going 
on here. The reality is that we are sharing 
the same facility (the Mellon Institute 
building on Fifth Avenue).
... We are both in a growth situation, 
and undoubtedly, there will be areas. .. [in 
which]. . .we will come up against each
nther.
To some extent, science has an image of 
being downtrodden. This is a false issue 
and a false image. Actually, it is a strongly 
supported activity. . . . and this is science 
in the country as well as at the University. 
Since growth hasnt been as fast, people 
have the feeling that science is downtrod
den. That isnt the case at all, and we at 
CMU have to do a better job on this.
MIS Dean Dan Berg expects the job market for scientists to improve.
TYPESETTERS
NEEDED!
There will be a meeting on Wednesday, November 9, 1977 in the TARTAN office for anyone interested in 
typesetting for the TARTAN this year. Please complete this application and return it to the TARTAN as soon as 
possible. If you have any questions or if the time of the meeting is incovenient for you feel free to call 578-2111 
or leave a note in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
NAME
ADDRESSPHONE
WORK STUDY?TYPING SPEED
Have you ever used an IBM Selectric typewriter?Composer?
Please list all the hours you are available each day. ALL typesetters will be asked to work 3-6 hours each 
week. Typesetters will be paid $2.50/hour.
MONDAY 
WEDNESDAY 
FRIDAY
SUNDAY
TUESDAY
THURSDAY
SATURDAY
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR'S HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.
********+******'**+
Morrow

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANNovember 8, 1977
AIESEC
Group mixes business and pleasure
AIESEC members work on projects, like this flag, at weekly meetings.
Imindsl 
matter
MITRE is an organization that faces the challenge of minds over 
matter each day.
We know that our unique resource is the human mind. And that 
the minds we seek are those that need to know they will be working with 
other professionals on challenging and significant problems.
As a nonprofit corporation operating in the public interest, our 
systems engineering projects provide answers to problems assigned to 
us by a score of national, state and local governmental agencies.'
At MITRE we will demand a lot from you. And we expect you to 
demand a lot from us. Because at MITRE, minds matter.
Entry-level career assignments now exist for graduates to work 
on project areas that include Command and Control Systems, Informa
tion Processing Systems, Electronic Surveillance and Communications 
Systems.
We want to talk to Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, 
and Mathematics majors.
We want to tell you about the work we re doing. Work that you 
could be doing too. In Digital Information Systems  Data Handling 
and Reduction  Microprogramming Techniques  Microprocessor 
Applications  Software Development  System Analyses  Tactical 
Control Systems Engineering and Artificial Intelligence Software 
Design and Applications.
And that's not all. We want you to know about the work were 
doing in Telecommunications  Voice Communications  Microwave 
and Digital Signal Processing  Radar Design  Digital Data Communi
cations  Satellite Systems and Terminals  Circuit Message and 
Packet Switching Techniques.
We invite your further interest in MITRE, a place where 
minds matter.
Please make arrangements with your Placement Office to view , 
our 12 minute color video tape presentation.
MITRE will be at the Camegie-Mellon University on November 18,1977
Sign up at your Placement Office for an on-campus interview 
with a member of our technical staff. If this isn't convenient, mail your 
resume to:
The MITRE Corporation 
College Relations 
8878 Middlesex Turnpike 
Bedford, MA 01730
THE:MITRE
CORPORATION
An equal opportunity employer M/F
by Neil Emerson
AIE-SEC? EYE-SEC? The signs are all 
over campus advertising it, but what is it?
AIESEC (properly spelled) is a French 
acronym for the International Association 
of Students in Economics and Business 
Management. The non-profit, studentrun group has 20,000 members worldwide 
in 55 countries with 400 local chapters or 
college campuses.
The AIESEC-CMU chapter started oper
ations, September, 1976. The local chap
ter sponsors business education programs 
social activities. It tries to create manage
ment internships in local corporations, 
especially those with international dealings, 
for foreign students in efforts of bringing 
together the academic and business comm
unities, as well as foster mutual under
standing and an exchange of skills among 
nations. For each internship the local 
committee raises, it can send a student 
abroad on a similar internship.
According to president Glen Raiger, 
an AMS junior, the internship is a drawing 
card for the organization.
Each intern is paid enough to compen
sate for his living costs, by the company
he works for. He is to be treated as a reg
ular employee or trainee, and receive no 
extra-curricular attention, especially since 
the host local,committee plans a cultural, 
calendar for the visiting intern.
Raiger also points out that businessmen 
like the idea of the intership, and respond 
well to students presenting AIESEC; 
trying to market the internships to local 
corporation executives. Raiger claims that 
students can make valuable contacts in 
the business world through such presen
tations, as well as learn how to handle an 
interview. Raiger points to the Board of 
Advisors for AIESEC-CMU as an example 
of both campus and business community 
support for the group. The board includes 
officers from Gulf Oil Co., Equibank, 
a local advertising firm, Dr. Van Horn, 
and Professor Kerr, head of AMS, among 
others.Additionally, AIESEC sponsors business 
education events like seminars, and region
al conventions. AIESEC-CMU may host 
one such convention this spring.
The group also plans to sponsor a media 
show and talk open to the general public 
on the Rockwell Space Shuttle in Feb
ruary.
BUY THE
1978-THISTLE
Subscriptions to the 1978 yearbook 
will be sold in BAKER HALL 
lobby TUESDAY Nov. 15 through 
FRIDAY Nov. 1 8 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

November 8/ 1977-TARTAN-page 5
Students investigate mysterious robot
Note: Artificial intelligence is a field 
of computer science which studies how 
subjective decisions are made, and how 
to program computers to make such 
decisions. The computer science depart
ment at CMU is known for its pioneering 
work in this field.
The storys authors went out to investi
gate the credibility of a domestic robot 
demonstrated recently in the Pittsburgh 
area. This robot represents a major break
through in the field of artificial 
intelligence. If the invention was real, 
then someone had far surpassed the 
research done at CMU.
by Mark Fox and Brian Reid
On October 24, 1977, a department 
store in the heart of Pittsburgh advertised 
the appearance of a domestic robot 
named Sam Strugglegear. Although this 
robot is not yet offered for sale, its 
inventor, Anthony Reichelt of Quasar 
Industries in New Jersey, claims that the 
robots powers include speech recogni
tion with a 4800-word vocabulary, sonarnavigated steering, and household chores 
such as vacuuming, serving drinks, and 
babysitting.
Knowing CMUs pioneer work in 
artificial intelligence, particularly in the 
field of speech recognition, various friends 
have called CMU to ask how this robot 
might be so much better at speech recog
nition than our talented and dedicated 
research team.
Rising to the challenge, four members 
of our department went downtown to 
investigate. They found a frightening 
sight: in the mens department, among
the three-piece suits, was a 5 foot, 2 inch 
image of an aerosol can on wheels, talking 
animatedly with the crowd. The robot
seemed able to converse on any subject, 
recognize the physical features of the 
customers, and move freely (though 
slowly) in any direction. The crowd 
was quite charmed by the talented 
machine.
We moved in to better investigate the 
machine. The robot moved on a set of 
wheels; there were two large drive wheels 
about ten inches in diameter, and several 
small stabilizing wheels. It moved about 
three inches per second, approximately 
one tenth the normal walking speed of 
an adult. We saw both arms rotate at the 
shoulder along a horizontal axis. Although 
there was a joint at the elbow, we never 
saw it move.
The hands were like clam-shells in 
design. There was a rod at the wrist 
that could be used for opening and closing 
of the hands, but on the model we saw, 
the hands were actually glued shut, so that 
they could not move even if there were 
an actuator. The actuators for the arms 
were electric motors attached to the 
arms by gears rather than belts. When 
an arm was blocked while in motion, the 
motor would stop dead, indicating the 
presence of some primitive feedback 
mechanism. One patron asked to see the 
robot vacuum a carpet, but was brushed 
off with the reply that its batteries were 
running low.
The CMU team next set out to invest
igate the robots sensory mechanisms.
Pushing and blocking its motion had no effect; the motors kept spinning away.
It didnt seem able to tell that an object 
was blocking its path. Covering the face
plate did not change its behavior at all. 
Since the robot seemed able to move 
around the room without hitting anything, 
we were curious as to why it had no 
detectable sensory reactions.
COLLEGE JUNIORSCOLLEGE SENIORS
NUCLEAR PROPULSION
The leading operator of Nuclear Reoctors is currently seeking college juniors and seniors to serve as 
Nuclear Propulsion officers both on Nuclear Surface vessels and Nuclear Submarines upon graduation. In
terested candidates should be in pursuit of a Baccalaureate Degree with an engineering, pure science, or 
math major and have demonstrated ability in ma#h and physics courses. A minimum of one year of college 
physics and math through integral calculus with a "B" average or better in technical courses is required. Suc
cessful candidated will be paid up to $6,000 during their senior year of college and upon graduation and 
commissioning receive a year of graduate level Nuclear training and upon completion of this training you 
will receive a cash bonus of $3,000. Nuclear Officers will be challenged by the entire spectrum of 
management and engineering responsibility as functioning Nuclear Engineers. Select applicants interested 
in teaching may be eligible for four year instructor positions at the Nuclear Propulsion School in Orlando. 
Florida. Subjects taught may include mathematics, physics, electrical enginnering, heat transfer and fluid 
flow materials, chemistry, readiological controls and reactor plant engineering. A complete benefits 
package, personal growth and development and a starting salary as high as $16,000, including bonus for the 
first year. Salary after four years will approach $20.000.
If you have an interest in exploring any of the above programs, please call or write:
1000 Liberty Ave. HI 11
LT. JACK REEVES
Nuclear Programs Officer.
412-644-5896/5898
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222
Feeling more doubtful, we began 
looking around the room for evidence of 
remote control. Lo and behold, about 
ten feet from the robot, standing in the 
crowd, we found a man in a blue suit. 
with his hand held contemplatively to 
his mouth like Aristotle contemplating 
the bust of Homer in the famous 
Rembrandt painting. After watching 
for a while, we noticed that whenever 
the robot was talking, the man in the blue 
suit could be seen muttering into his hand. 
Seeing also that this man had a wire 
dangling suspiciously from his waist to 
his shoe, one of the CMU group 
approached this stranger. Do many 
people figure out what you are doing?, 
he asked. No, he said,they are usually 
too busy watching the robot to notice 
me. Aha!, we thought to ourselves, 
it looks like were on to something 
here.
We then asked him what were the 
obots speech and vision abilities, to which
he replied that the machine can see about 
ten inches, dimly, and that it could under
stand about 200 words of unconnected 
speech in a quiet environment.
We did not really believe his statement 
about the robots abilities, and in the 
light of our discovery of the robots 
perceptive skills, we were convinced 
that there must be yet another remote 
control handling the motion. Time was 
running out; they needed to move the 
machine to a suburban store for an evening 
demonstration. We returned to CMU 
feeling unsatisfied.
It would be tempting to call this robot 
a fake, but it is not. It is a fake robot, 
but a reasonably good parlor trick: more 
in the domain of magicians than of com
puter scientists.
So it seems, that research will still 
continue on the servant robot, and 
exhibits such as this will continue, display
ing what science could, but as of yet 
has not accomplished.
SPRING 1978 REGISTRATION 
NOVEMBER 16-17, 1977
Class Schedules will be available November 4 after 12 noon at the In
formation Desk, Skibo, and at the Public Relations Office, Baker Hall 
160.
STUDENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
REGISTRATION
C.I.T. and M.I.S. freshmen have received special instructions on regis
tration from Dean Kail and should not participate in registration on 
November 16 and 17. H&SS freshmen and sophomores have received 
instructions from the Academic Advisory Center BH 161 and should 
report there for registration information.
All other students must register on November 16 and 17 according to 
the following instructions:
A. Obtain a Class Order Form from your department office.
B. Discuss your Spring course schedule with your advisor and 
complete the Class Order Form. Your advisor will approve your 
schedule by signing the Class Order Form immediately below 
the last course listed.
C. Your advisor will also provide you with your packet of class 
cards. You will need one card for each course.
D. Complete the course section and unit portion of the class cards 
and take one to each department offering the particular course 
in which you wish to register and ask approval for registration. 
Department locations are in the class schedule. If approved, the 
department will keep your class card.
E. If you are unable to gain entrance into one (or more) of the de
sired courses, have your advisor approve an alternate course. 
Repeat steps D and E until you have successfully registered for 
all courses.
F. After you have received department approval for each course by 
presenting a class card, deliver the yellow copy of the Class Or
der Form to your department. The white copy is your receipt.
G. Because new or special students will soon be registering for 
courses which are now available to you, it is important to reg
ister for your total program now.
H. In December, you will receive a confirmation listing all of the 
courses for which you have registered.
Harl nEi inlso
Joss ARE fuaj;
EAR NMOY DUNIGOT
IS GETTIAJG OfJo
AUTHOR 
24)Thh)eO)ut
4rLimusO,u sGruoSya krO,. You ,GlI HrOv .GN,rMu,
THIS MATCH BOOH IMITH THST AVVRE&S OF THE 
"FAMOUS ?L0MBE<S SCHOOL" OR, WHAT'S BEHlHV THET 
CURTAIN GAIL'S POIMTING TO N0U)?
'

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
To vote or 
not to vote: 
a dialogue
Anybody who was at the mayoral forum on Friday saw that 
politics is just a lot of words, just a lot of flimsy rhetoric. 
Beck with this backwoods oh wow, Caliguiris glib 
eloquence. Cosettis bland, safe delivery, and Wechts 
theatricshow can anybody see the issues with ali that bull 
flying around?
/ agree with you that the forum wasnt the place to learn 
about the issues; the issues have to be followed and 
examined over the period of time during which they 
develop. Public appearances are useful, though, to show 
us a politicians style.
Then thats all politics isappealing to people's emotions. 
Real politics has become too far removed from the average 
person. Who can understand macroeconomics or inter
national shenanigans without years of serious study? We've 
come too far from the days of Thomas Jefferson, when 
government was really in the hands of the people. Thats 
why Im not going to vote today. What difference will my 
one vote make? Politicians are politicians, and theyll run 
the world however they like no matter how / vote.
Youre right: international economics and politics are 
hard to understand. But they can be boiled down to little 
things that do affect you and me. Human rights, shipping 
embargoes, religious freedom, jobsthese are the issues, 
and youve got to find the candidate whose opinions 
coincide with yours.
But Im just not interested enough to wade through all the 
rhetoric to find the real issues. And even if / do, even if / 
find a candidate Id be willing to vote for, what guarantee 
do / have that hes been telling me the truth during his 
campaign? Politics is not just politics, its advertising, its 
media, its telling people what they want to hear. Every 
politician who runs for office is a product of his media ex
perts.
Im glad you see the problem. Of course its true that 
politicians take advantage of the media, because theyre 
trying to sell themselves to us. But if you see what 
theyre doing, then you should also be able to see 
through it and pay attention to the important things. 
Examine the candidatess record-look at what hes done, 
not just at what hes said. There is a limit to what the 
media can do; they cant say a candidate did one thing if 
he actually did another, and they cant say he voted a cer
tain way if he didn t.
So you expect me to forge my way through all this media 
hype just to vote in an election?
just to vote in an election! Yes! Act as if the whole 
election depended on your single vote,  an English 
clergyman once said. And its sensible advice. Because 
really an election depends on thousands of people, who 
have only one vote each. The whole is equal to the sum 
of its parts certainly holds true when it comes to elec
tions. People really do decide things.
All right, what if / do decide to vote, but / dont like any of 
the candidates? What should / do then? A lot of people 
were unhappy with the choices in the last presidential 
election, so they just didn't bother voting.
Dont forget that you can always write in a candidate. 
But most important, let the government know you didnt 
care for the choices on the ballot. Go to vote, but dont 
vote for anybody. Your vote will register as a no-vote, 
and the government will see that though you cared 
enough to vote, for some reason you didnt feel that any 
of the candidates deserved your approval. Its worth 
doing.
/ suppose so. To tell you the truth, I'm really not too 
informed on the issues of this election and / don 7 even feel 
qualified to vote.
Sad. Its a right, a privilege, and a responsibility. You owe 
so much to your country. Even Thomas jefferson would 
be ashamed of you.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
This letter was recently sent to 
Dean Swank from SDC. It is in 
reference to the Student Court 
case regarding the sidewalk be
tween Scobell and Boss Halls, re
ported in the TARTAN on Nov
ember 1.
Editor :
The Students Dormitory 
Council must express its outrage 
at the injustice dealt to the stu
dent found guilty of malicious 
destruction of University prop
erty. To our knowledge, this 
students offense was not destruc
tion of property, but mere deface
ment. Destruction connotes 
breaking to pieces, making use
less, or counteracting the effect 
of" ; writing graffiti on a sidewalk 
can hardly be deemed to do this. 
The council wonders if this ac
cusation was made simply because 
of the negligence of the University 
in not having a regulation against 
the defacement.
It has come to the Councils 
attention that there were num
erous defacements on various 
slabs of the new sidewalk. Inexplicably, only one entire slab was 
removed, while the rest were 
simply patched. The removed 
slab contained a defamation against an administrator. We hope 
that the extreme charge of mal
icious destruction is not a 
personal vendetta against the 
accused.
In this case, the Student Court 
ruled guilty with mitigating cir
cumstances. This generally im
plies that the Court feels the in
fraction is not severe. The Stu
dents Dormitory Council does 
not feel that the Universityimposed punishment of $600 fine 
plus one year probation in any 
way corresponds with the stu
dents ruling.
We sincerely hope that you will 
reconsider the punishment in this 
case.
SDC
Mid-east reply
Editor:
This is an answer to the letters 
published in the TARTAN by 
Messrs. Fox and Mostow on Octo
ber 25 and by Dr. Resnick on 
November 1. While I agree with
them on the complexity of the 
problem, I would like to elab
orate on some historic events 
that they mention, to disagree 
with their interpretation of others 
and finally, to note an incon
sistency.
One important point of 
Messrs. Fox and Mostows letter 
is that the Palestinians should bear 
a grudge against some Arab states. 
I do agree. And they actually do, 
especially against Jordan, as indic
ated by Dr. Resnick. This antago
nism originated in 1948 and 
climaxed in September 1970. It 
is true that the part of the Britishcontrolled Palestine that was to 
become an Arab state (known as 
Cis-Jordan or more vaguely, the 
Jordan West Bank) was annexed 
during the 1948 war by Jordan 
(then called Trans-Jordan), but 
also by Israel (Egypt controled 
the Gaza strip but never officially 
annexed it). Furthermore, the 
alliance between Israel and Jordan 
has always been obvious. During 
the 1948 war, they avoided mili
tary contact (in particular at He
bron). Then they negotiated at 
Rhodes in 1949 the division of
TARTAN
Volume 78November 8, 1977Number 10
Fditor -in-Chief 
Managing Fditoi 
Business f ditor 
News Editor 
Fntertainment Fditor 
Folio Fditor 
Sports Fditor 
Photography Editor
Sherry Siegel 
Brenda RetEllen Silverman 
Saul Carliner 
Casey Childs 
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Ram an an
Production Assistants: Ed Frankenberry, Amy Boyle, Gary Walzer
Photography Staff: Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton. John Fong, Greg
Lobowitz, George Lecomte, Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller. Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578 2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1977TARTANpage 7
more Letters
Cis-Jordan (Western Galilea and 
cities such as Nazareth and Jaffa 
for Israel, the rest for Jordan). 
King Abdullah of Jordan always 
wanted to sign a separate peace 
treaty with Israel. He finally set
tled for negotiating the accept
ance by other Arab states of his 
annexation of the West Bank in 
return for his promise not to sign 
such a treaty. The Jordan army 
was then commanded by a British 
general (Glubb Pacha) and the 
kings of Jordan (Abdullah and 
then Hussein) have since consist
ently and diligently been at the 
service of American politics. Fin
ally, Jordan did not engage in the 
1973 war. This alliance between 
Israel and Jordan is precisely the 
reason why the PLO does not 
want to be represented at the 
Geneva conference by the Jor
danian delegation, as Israel wants, 
but by its own delegation.
The argument of Messrs. Fox 
and Mostow that the Palestinians 
enjoy a more comfortable life in 
Israel and the occupied territories 
than in the refugee camps of some 
Arab countries does not leave 
them much hope. For the Pales
tinians, the choice is not between 
being refugees in some countries 
or second-class citizens by the law 
of another country that militarily 
occupies their land. It is simply to 
rule their own homeland. Is this 
too much of a demand for a 
people?
This is precisely why the PLO 
cannot accept the UN resolution 
242 by which it would officially 
recognize the state of Israel. It 
only refers to the Palestinians as 
refugees. Accepting this resolution 
or not was the question of the 
meeting of the PLO in Cairo last 
July to which Dr. Resnick refers. 
All the present diplomatic moves, 
on the other hand, clearly indicate 
that Mr. Arafat and the majority 
of the PLO are ready to recognize 
Israel in return for the recognition 
by Israel of a Palestinian state 
(which Israel blindly refuses).
I agree with Dr. Resnick that 
the borders of this Palestinian 
state are difficult to define. How
ever, the fact that more Palestin
ians live outside of the West Bank 
than inside (many of them have 
not had much control of their 
expulsions, escapes and settle
ments lately), does not keep the 
West Bank from being entirely 
Arab. Why refuse the West Bank 
as a basis for negotiation? (Even 
though, as noted by Dr. Resnick, 
being small may lead this state 
into finding it difficult to be 
content with its boundaries and 
not irredentist with neighboring 
territory. There is already such 
an example in the region).
It is hard to believe that the 
quotation driving the Jews into 
the sea can still be raised as an 
argument. As mentioned by Mr. 
Edahl in his letter of October 18 
to the TARTAN, the goal of the 
most extremist Palestinians, 
known as the Rejection Front, is 
to transform the religious state 
of Israel into a secular one. As 
said above, the majority of the 
Palestinians are now ready for a 
mutual recognition. Passionate de
clarations made at a time of ex
treme tension are not the mono
poly of Mr. Arafat. Numerous 
examples can be found coming 
from Messrs. Begin, Dayan or even 
Mrs. Golda Meir.
As for the constraints to which 
Arabs are subject in Israel and the 
occupied territories, I would only 
like to recommend among many 
other sources, the book entitled 
Arabs in Israel by Sabri Jiryis and 
prefaced by Noam Chomsky 
(Monthly Review Press, 1976) 
which is full of references to Is
raeli publications and legal texts 
stating these constraints.
Another point of Messrs. Fox 
and Mostow that I find exagerated 
is that the worldwide support for 
the PLO is only due to oil consid
erations. While this may partly 
hold for some late Western sup
porters, it certainly does not hold 
for the majority of the Third 
World countries, the Socialist 
Countries and even some Western 
countries (e.g. France) which re
cognized the Palestinian rights 
long before the oil embargo or 
even the possibility of an oil em
bargo. Many other national libera
tion movements gained wide sup
port without economic pressures. 
A good reason for this almost uni
versal support of the PLO is that 
it is finally acknowledged that no 
peace can be reached without ad
dressing the central question.
Finally, I do not see why 
Messrs. Fox and Mostow are so 
ashamed of the fact that violence 
was used in the creation of Israel 
and feel obliged to draw a risky 
comparison with the Klu Klux 
Klan. Mr. Begin was commander 
of the Irgun, a terrorist group 
whose goal, as opposed to the 
Jewish Agency, was to extend the 
territory of Israel to the whole of 
Trans-Jordan. The commander of 
what Messrs. Fox and Mostow call 
a gang supported by few Pales
tinian Jews was elected last May 
as leader of Israel.
Gilles Lafue
Roll over. Stones
Editor *
The Activities Board in all 
its wisdom screened a movie(!) 
last Friday. Unlike other concert 
movies, such as Woodstock, 
this one had no historical sig
nificance. It was not even inter
esting in the sense that it made 
the viewers feel part of the 
concertit was just a series of 
.'^ry tight closeups of the per
formers, mostly of the leader 
whats-his-name. As regards the 
music (ugh!) itself, a whole 
series of adjectives, including 
idiotic, present themselves to 
me, but apparently many people 
like it and it is not my position 
to pass judgment on their bad 
taste. I must, however, grant 
that the music had a very wide 
range; all the way from bad to 
horrible. And the NOISE! Willi 
all the furor over the Concorde 
one would think that the Rolling 
Stones were playing every time 
the poor plane took off!
Why couldn't WRCT be asked 
to play such stuff for any length 
of time? There is then at least 
the freedom of the dial. There 
would be no choice for the
people who want to see movies 
with scheduling such as this. 
I noticed that most of the people 
who were in DH2210 were 
drinking beer and smoking pot. 
I sympathize with them. Nobody 
wants to be blamed for watching 
such idiocy when sober.
Why did I go to see this at 
all? I had always wondered why 
the Rolling Stones were so popu
lar and was curious to see if it 
had anything to do with their 
Stage Presence. I still dont 
have my answer.
Activities Board please note: 
The only thing worse than a 
Filmed Concert is another Filmed 
Concert.
Ramanan
Pay or move
Editor:
Allow me to describe my 
plight as a CMU dorm resident, 
a situation 1 know is being shared 
by many other resident students 
here.
As an eager future freshman 
this past summer, 1 received my 
brochure from the Housing Office 
asking me to decide just how 
much I wanted to spend on living 
quarters, how many people I 
wanted to live with, and other 
assorted questions concerning my 
choices about the tacility I hoped 
to occupy. After submitting a 
$100 down payment with my 
housing forms, I was informed 
that, due to a high housing de
mand, all of my wishes could not 
be fulfilled, but despite a few 
major differences in what I had 
originally asked for, I signed the 
contract. I believe that most ot 
us understood that housing is no 
easy matter, and though there 
were disappointments, almost 
everyone settled into their Hous
ing Office-appointed, humble 
CMU abodes with little fuss.
I am now unable to understand 
the severity ot what I and many 
others believe to be an outrageous 
act of injustice against we stu
dents by the Housing Office.
Due to the departure of one of 
our roommates, (who has moved 
to a frat), we three remaining in 
our quad have been granted not a 
simple ultimatum: Pay $57.50 to 
remain in our dorm, or face the 
possibility of being forced to 
move out-, effective this semester. 
Apparently, the lack of housing in 
September has changed to a lack 
of occupants in October/Novem
ber. Unable to fill the vacancies 
left by moving students or drop
outs, the Housing Office has dec
ided that we should now pay for 
the type of room created by the 
absence of departing students 
(i.e., each occupant pays $57.50 if 
his quad becomes a triple, or over 
$100 if his quad is changed to a 
double.) or be forced to move out.
We are taken aback. This 
weighty letter, which resembles an 
eviction notice from a moneyhungry landlord, seems to have 
been timed with malicious, precise 
cunning. Received at the height 
of midterms, and given a mere 
four days to be answered, who 
can blame us for feeling cornered? 
Apparently someone feels we have 
nothing better to do but woriy 
about the prospects ot getting 
booted or raising a substantial
sum of money to stay. Somehow, 
some element of communication 
is lacking here. We have recieved 
no more than a letter with an or
der. There has been little explan
ation. seemingly no attempt to 
find replacements, and a deadline 
so immediate that we could 
hardly amass our thoughts, ask 
questions, consult our.parents, or 
even understand exactly what is 
being done.
There seems to have been total 
disregard for the rights of we 
CMU student dorm residents in 
this predicament by the Univer
sity and the Housing Office.
Someone with authority ap
parently believes we are all rich 
and can easily pay these new bills 
without difficulty. Bullshit! 
Being a student here at CMU is 
an extremely expensive endeavor. 
And an additional $57.50 is no 
easy sum to aquire. I am not 
alone in this view, as 1 have exper
ienced through discussion with 
others. Few have this kind of 
extra money to pay for a conse
quence which resulted from no 
action of theirs, and for which 
they cannot be blamed. In addi
tion, the absence of one person 
has made no marked improvement 
in our living conditions at our 
dorm, certainly not to the tune of 
over $50. Perhaps the prospects 
of moving to another living 
quarter has little significance to 
the housing people. Riduculous, 
for it is only now that we are 
really beginning to settle down, 
get into a routine, and like our 
places. A move at this point 
would be an incredible drain on 
our already sparse time, and 
psychologically and physically 
devastating. Has the Housing Of
fice respect for the amount of 
work we are faced with and the 
worries we already must face?
We are told to move or paysign or they will decide for us. 
Nothing else. Financial aid? Alt
ernatives? Possible ways to aquire 
new roommates? Forget it. Move 
or Pay. Somehow these people 
(CMU officials) are different than 
those who courted us as seniors in 
high school. Somehow the greed 
for money has overcome the basic 
needs of the student. Somehow 
the student and his interests are 
no longer of top priority. We are 
penalized because the Housing 
Office cannot fill a vacancyin a room that is not even what 
we originally requested! Why 
should we have to pay either way 
(money or moving)? If I am ex
aggerating this case, I ask that 
someone tell me how this action 
is justified-even with clause 8 
of the contract?
In fits of irony I now see 
flashes of smiling CMU Housing 
Office employees proudly dis
playing small, red buttons pro
claiming We care for you at 
CMU. Bullshit.
Name Withheld
Real patriotism
Editor:
Im writing in response to the 
letter in the 11/1 issue of the Tar
tan, written by S.J.S.
He showed a very negative at
titude towards patriotism. This 
is a shame. Why is it fashionable 
to put down patriotism? Must
an old value necessarily be a 
worthless one? America was orig
inally founded on the ideal of
individual freedomthe first and 
perhaps the only country ever to 
do so. I think that deserves res
pect.
Moreover, Mr. S.J.S., Id like 
you to know that being patriotic 
does not imply that one supports 
McCarthyism, massive armament, 
or God.
If more people stood up for 
America and the much-maligned 
American Dream, instead of ignor
antly laughing at it, we might 
climb once more to our former 
position as the greatest county 
on Earth.
In conclusion, Mr. S.J.S., if 
you see a solitary figure standing 
at a football game saluting during 
the National Anthem again, it will 
be me-and I wont be looking 
over my shoulder to see if anyone 
is laughing.
Michael Fox
Save Music Ed.
Editor:
It was a very sad day for CMU 
when the decision was made to 
eliminate music education and 
concentrate only on music per
formance.
It seems illogical to eliminate 
a program as successful as music 
education. Music Education is a 
double degree program which 
takes five years to complete. It is 
a program which stresses compet
ence on ones instrument along 
with proficiency in the skills of 
education. In the past this pro
gram has maintained high stan
dards and has a placement record 
of nearly 100% of its graduates, 
even when there were few jobs 
available. To my knowledge no 
other university offers such a pro
gram.
This program is a strong calling 
card for the University. It has 
many successful graduates who in 
turn have guided students of 
theirs to Carnegie-Mellon for this 
unique program.
The reasons given for the elim
ination of this program included 
a desire to cut costs and a lack of 
proper facilities. It seems unusual 
for a program which brought 
many students and much money 
to the University to be eliminated 
as a cost-cutting measure. The fac
ilities, though limited, are the best 
and the most the music depart
ment has ever had.
One of the most disturbing 
aspects of this change, aside from 
an inability to explain it, is how 
the students were informed. None 
of the music education faculty, 
students, or alumni were con
sulted about the elimination of 
music education until after the 
decision was made. The faculty 
was informed shdrtly after the 
decision was made but the stu
dents were to learn of this deci
sion which would change their 
lives nearly two weeks later. What 
is to stop this sort of secrecy from 
phasing out other valuable pro
grams in this University with so 
little justification?
Sandra Rasco 
Class of '79
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN dos 
not print anonymous letters.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS&.CLASSIFIEDADS_________
DEADLINE: NOOIM WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
Can psychiatrists really determine whether
someone understands the difference be
tween right and wrong? Should the insan
ity defense to a criminal prosecution be 
abolished? How long can one remain 
"incompetent to stand trial?
All of these and many more questions 
will be the subject of a lively debate spon
sored by the American Civil Liberties 
Union. The panelists were chosen for their 
expertise and strong opinions. Date: Wed. 
November 9, 1977, Time: 8 PM, Place:
University of Pittsburgh School of Law 
(corner of Boquet and Forbes), Room 107.
For more information, call the ACLU at 
681-7736.
A graduate psychology mini-course focu
sing on the disappearance of romantic love 
in modern society will be presented by Dr. 
G. Marian Kinget Nov. 10-12 at Duquesne 
University.
Dr. Kinget, a psychologist from Michi
gan State University, is author of the book, 
"On Being Human" as well as numerous 
articles for various publications. Her views 
were most recently published in the Sept. 
26 issue of "Time'' magazine.
Presented by Duquesne's Department of 
Psychology, the lectures are open to the 
public and free of charge.
Details on receiving credit for the mini
course are available by calling Mary 
Frances Lerch, academic advisor, at 434- 
6522.
Career PerspectivesSummer employment
opportunities with the federal government. 
A representative of the United States 
Civil Service Commission will discuss sum
mer employment opportunities with the 
Federal Government. Applications pro
cedures, prospects for the summer of 1978, 
and special details on the summer intern 
program will be covered in detail. Monday, 
Nov. 14, at 12 noon in the Wherrett room, 
Skibo.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanitites & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
Energy Conservation in Residential Space
Heating. Students from the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs, and the De
partment of Engineering and Public Pol
icy will describe the progress which has 
been made in their one semester inves
tigation of energy conservation in Al
legheny County space heating. Conserva
tion techniques, costs, public awareness, 
and policy implications are being studied. 
The presentation, on Nov. 10, is open 
to the public. For further information 
call. John Molburg or Cary Bloyd ext. 
2512.
The Mid City Pittsburgh T.A. (Trans
actional Analysis) SEMINAR will be held 
SUNDAY, November 20, 1977 from
24 PM at 350 South Graham Ave. Shadyside. For more information, call 828 
2550.
Confidential Services including pregnancy
and V.D. testing, all methods of contracep
tion and counseling are available through
out Western Pennsylvania without restric
tion on age or ability to pay. For referral 
to a clinic near you, call the Family Plan
ning Council of Western Pennsylvania 
toll free at (800) 242-2532.
Conference on Microcomputers Applica
tion set for CMU. Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity will host a one day conference for en
gineers from industry and others interested 
in exploring potential applications of mi
crocomputers on Thursday, November 10, 
1977.
"Applied Microprocessor and Micro
computer Research at CMU" will provide 
a forum for review and discussion of cur
rent research of applications in this field. 
The conference is intended to acquaint 
newcomers with some of the capabilities 
of these devices and exchange views on 
problems and possible solutions with ex
perienced microprocessor users from indus
try. It is also intended to help engineers, 
scientists, and managers gain an under
standing of how this new technology can 
be employed. The conference, is sponsored 
by Enterprise, CMU's industrial liason 
program, and the Depts. of Mechanical and 
Electrical Engineering. Conference fees 
$20 for non-Enterprise members and $10 
for participants from firms belonging to 
Enterprise; lunch and conference papers 
are included. For additionational informa
tion contact Jame, Blanchard at (412) 
578-2469.
The T.A. (Transactional Analysis)
meeting will be THURSDAY, Novem
ber 10, 1977 from 8-10 PM at 2118 
Beechwood Ave. Monroeville. All inter
ested persons can call 3723228.
Persons interested in participating in the
organization of Spring Carnival 1978, 
please call 578-2119, or leave name and 
phone number on the door of Skibo 57 
(Spring Carnival Office).
Rabbi Alan D. Fuchs of the Temple
Sinai will address classes at Point Park 
College on Thursday, November 3. His 
appearance, coordinated by the college's 
Office of Student Affairs, is being spon
sored by the Jewish Chatauqua Society.
According to Dr. Charles Quillin, 
Dean of Students, Rabbi Fuchs will lecture 
psychology and sociology classes. His 
topics will include: "Identity Problems 
in Contemporary Jewish Youths," "Sur
vey of Jewish Culture and Religion" 
and "Contemporary Jewish Views of 
Crises Facing Family Structure."
Point Park Colleges has been selected 
for the second consecutive year to host 
a Jewish Chatauqua Society visiting rabbi. 
The society, which is the educational 
project of the National Federation of 
Temple Brotherhoods, seeks to promote 
better understanding by endowing courses 
and lectures on Judaism at colleges and 
universities throughout the United States 
and Canada.
VISTA VOLUNTEER, annual stipend of
$4000, to work with neighborhood people, 
organizing community, financial and home 
management counseling, architectural and 
building skills, or urban studies areas. 
Requires interest in urban problems, 
improving quality of life in city, flexible 
working hours, own transportation. Call 
Housing and Community Development 
Corporation, 4625472, for more infor
mation.
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will
feature Matt Miskie, Contemporary Folk 
Music on a twelve string guitar, on Friday, 
November 11 at 8:30 PM. Located in the 
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland, the Coffee House presents 
live entertainment each Friday night until 
12 Midnight. On Friday, November 18, 
THE ALTERNATIVE will present an 
OPEN STAGE Night. All interested per
formers are invited to participate. For 
information, call 682-6886.
Forbes St. Gallery presents a Theater
Exhibition (set design, costume design) 
in a show opening Tuesday night, Nov. 8. 
The opening will be from 7-9 30 PM. 
All are invited.
Social Scientist adept in research methods/
analysis needed to participate in the con
ceptualization and interpretation of a pub
lic survey. Steve 661-2989 or 434-6220.
Interested in having lunch with an inter
national student? Last week's phone num
ber was printed incorrectly. For info, 
please call 578-2870
Subscriptions to the 1978 THISTLE will
be sold in Baker Hall lobby Tues. Nov. 15 
through Fri. Nov. 18 from 10 AM to 4 PM. 
Sex counseling, hypoanalysis, nervousness,
studying. Confidential. Private. Experi
enced. Professional. References guaranteed. 
261-3458.
clubs
Minority Women in Technology and
Science (MWTS)There will be a meeting 
of all the old members and any interested 
women (undergrads or grads), on Wednes
day, November 16, 1977, at 4:30 PM. 
The meeting will be held in Morewood 
Gardens' Piano Room. Hope to see you 
there.
scholarships awards prizes
The National Research Council announces
the NRC Research Associateship Programs 
for 1978. These programs provide op
portunities for postdoctoral research in 
many fields of ATMOSPHERIC & EARTH 
SCIENCES - CHEMISTRY - ENGINEER
ING - ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES - 
MATHEMATICS - PHYSICS - and SPACE 
SCIENCES.
Appointments are awarded on a compet
itive basis to recent recipients of the 
doctorate and in some programs to senior 
investigators. Certain programs are open 
to non-U.S. nationals as well as to U.S. 
citizens. Stipends (subject to income 
tax) will begin at $17,000 a year. Grants 
will be provided for family relocation 
and for professional travel during tenure. 
Postmark deadline forapplications is 
January 15, 1978. Awards will be an
nounced in April.
The NRC administers the Research As
sociateship Programs in cooperation with 
selected federal research organizations 
which have laboratories at about 65 
geographic locations in the United States. 
Approximately 250 new awards will be 
made in 1978.
A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in the
Poetry Competition sponsored by the 
World of Poetry, a monthly newsletter 
for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject 
are eligible to compete for the grand prize 
or for 49 other cash or merchandise awards.
Rules and official entry forms are avail
able by writing to World of Poetry, 2431 
Stockton Blvd., Dept. A, Sacramento, 
California 95817.
classified
CHILD CARE in my home, Sq. Hill.
Weekday afternoons. 20-25 hrs./week 
preferred. 421-8959.
Lose weight. Stop smoking. Improve
grades. Confidential. References. Private. 
Experienced. Professional. Guaranteed. 
261-3458.
Tektronix Oscilloscope for sale, $40 or
best offer. - Call Jeff 687-0151 (days), 
362-7644 (eves.).
To whom it may concern: Happy No
vember 12th. Amy, this means you! 
The Silver Phantom.'
Writers, Ad salespeople: earn Christmas
cash. 681 0148, evenings.
Student to do housecleaning on Fridays:
9:00 AM to 3:00 PM. References neces
sary $20/day. Students wanted to do 
carpentry work: panelling of basement
and installation of false ceiling. Parttime 
work over weekend working in local 
plastics factory running molding machine. 
Jobs available for the following shifts: 
Friday: 11:00 PM to 7:00 AM, Saturday: 
7:00 AM to 3:00 PM, 3:00 PM to 11:00 
PM, 11:00 PM to 7:00 AM, Sunday: 7:00 
AM to 3:00 PM, 3:00 AM to 11:00 PM. 
Steam table and pantry person wanted 
at local restaurant for lunchtime hours 
$2.35/hour.: Native french babysitter
desired for bilingual 5 year old boy. Free 
living quarters in exchange for houseclean
ing and babysitting. Student with car 
needed to transport man to work in the 
mornings and then to take wife for treat
ment at hospital Monday to Friday 9:15 to 
12 noon. Companion wanted for 89 year 
old active woman to take shopping and to 
lunch. Woman is quite active and enjoys a 
good conversationalist. If interested in 
these job opportunities or if you are in the 
market for a parttime job stop in at the 
student employment office. New jobs 
come in daily. You may start earning that 
pocket money today. Office hours are 
10:30 to 2:30 Monday to Friday and 
6 to 9 in the evenings, Saturday hours are 
1 to 4. or call: 682-5482. The Student 
Employment Service is a free service to 
CMU students sponsored by Student 
Corporation.
Very sincere postdoctoral student, Jewish,
age 28, recently moved to Pittsburgh, 
would like to meet a sincere, well-educated, well-adjusted young woman with 
high moral values. Object: friendship and 
companionship, possibly leading to mar
riage. Depth of personality and warmth of 
character more important than physical 
appearance. Sincere replies only, please. 
If you're suspicious or shy, have a friend 
reply on your behalf. Please write to 
P.O. Box 9068, Bloomfield Station, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15224.
Typingown typewriter, in my home
(Shadyside), reasonable, efficient, accurate. 
After 6 PM. 665-9531.
Good looking young man, 28, Haverford
graduate, good sense of humor, consid
erate, bright and recently relocated to 
Pittsburgh, interested in meeting a very 
attractive, sweet, intelligent, vivacious 
young lady 21 to 28. Send photograph, 
name, address, phone number and a 
brief self-descriptive note to Mark, P.O. 
Box 1804, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. All 
sincere replies answered.
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 2435458.
"TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROSSeasonal and year-round clubs; good 
playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 6543770, or send 2 complete 
resumes and 2 pictures to :Col. R. Reade, 
W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 
1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015.''

---------------------------------------------------

NOVEMBER 8, 1)77/ ISSUE 17INTIMATE CONFESSIONS IF THE DORM ROOMS COULD SPEAK

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANNovember 8, 1977
tfie fio'i'm SRocmb Sfjfiea/c
(Or more appropiately, if dorm rooms could scream.) 
by Alison M. Cornish
Looking back at what the average entering freshman 
knows of college life before hitting college, it really isn't 
much. So you've heard from your friends about the 
wild parties, the all-nighters, and the basic "lock-out." 
And you've seen the movies with the giggling girls, the 
pantie raids, and the fratsv But that can't be consid
ered an overall view of college life. No one can tell you 
that. Only the dorm room walls could ever give you the 
true picture. Silent and stolid remain the walls (notice 
the lack of the use of the word "solid"), seeing every
thing, not mentioning a word. Oh, they get the rough end 
of the deal, as students insist on pouading in that forbid
den nail. They look the other way when an assortment of 
2" x 4"s are somehow erected into those always desirous 
lofts.
But the walls have had it rough in the past few years.
TARTAN FOLD
NOVEMBER 8, 1977/ISSUE 17: INTIMATE CONFESSIONS 
IF THE DORM ROOMS COULD SPEAK
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANT MORY BRENNER 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS FRITZ LAPOINT
MARK AKSOY 
SAUL CARLINER 
ALISON CORNISH 
JIM WALDFOGLE 
RICK KUBINSKI 
JUDY VITALE 
GINNY BEYER 
K.L. BERTRAND 
MIKE LEIBENSPERGER 
DAVID SHEWARD 
ALYCE GOTTESMAN 
ROSE DUBINANDREW EPSTEIN 
BRYAN KING 
MARK CAPAROSA 
ERIC SMEDLEY 
COVER DESIGN by LISA AMOWITZ
Oh, did they used to hold some juicy gossip in their 
prime! Think back to the days when they were the sole 
witness (hopefully) to the hushed entrance of some fair 
Juliet's Romeo after the hour of midnight. They merely 
cringed at the outrageous "art" that adorned them. They 
stood tall and true, dressed in their dignified suits of 
dormitory beige.
As the years went on, the walls' stateliness declined. 
As society gave way to the need for permissiveness, the 
walls' gossip depreciated in its market value. Romeos 
came more often, and stayed later, and yet the walls could 
do nothing. The poor things are frankly ashamed of their 
assorted photographic garb, yet the students continue re
lentlessly. Some of them cannot even resort to their stan
dard; they must live through the semester painted out
rageous orange with blue "graphic" stripes. Loss of mat
erial gossip is bad enoughloss of outright face is worse.
What can the walls do in their terrible plight? Nothing 
you say? I don't know about that. My floor is coming up 
nowif our seemingly tireless walls suddenly become tired 
and let the ceiling go, I'm leaving. I can take a hint.
STAe SPlobu of tAe SP/uak
/ Ginnv Beyer * Cf # Cre
by Ginny Beyer 
Dear Folio,
I strongly object to this week's theme -- "Intimate 
Confessions.: If Dorm Rooms Could Only Talk" -- on
the basis that it discriminates against the off-campus 
community. Not everyone is entitled to enjoy the lux
ury of a Morewood Gardens cubicle. In the effort to 
represent the commuter minority, I submit to you the 
first chapter of my latest soap, "Parkview Place," or 
"The Story of the Slugs":
One of the blessings of C-MU is its size. On a sparsely 
populated campus like C-MU's, you get to know, at least 
by face, just about everybody. Like the Slugs, for exam
ple. C-MU students undoubtedly have seen the purple 
T-shirt bearing, in gold, the Slug insignia.
But C-MU students, although they might recognize 
the Slugs' official T-shirt, don't recognize the significance 
of it. The Slugs are a closely knit group of C-MU rowdies, 
a fraternity minus the formalities.
The Slugs originated in Morewood Gardens, on the 
sixth floor of E-tower. Three years ago, the floor started 
an intramural football team, and called themselves the 
"Slugs." The original slugs grew in number, as friends of 
all ages and sexes joined the flock.
In their infancy on 6-E, the Slugs, mostly freshmen 
and sophomores, thrived on hell-raising. Their antics 
included gazorching live lobsters at ATO, dorm destruc
tion, and dogpiling. The"dogpile" is the systematic
stacking of human bodies, one on top of another, towards 
the ceiling.
If 6-E really could speak, it would probably tell you 
of the tremendous Slug dogpiles, of how the floors 
creaked and threatened to cave in. The 6-E lounge 
(back in the days when Morewood had lounges) was 
a favorite dogpiling practice area. One night, a group 
of six Slugs spotted a fellow Slug snoring away on a 
couch in their lounge. A dogpile victim! One by one, 
the Slugs flattened themselves on top of their victim, 
squashing him as the pile of bodies rose. Fortunately, 
no one was hurt, but the couch couldn't stand the excess 
weight and cracked.
It was no wonder Chuck Williams, the Dean of Hous
ing, departed in a huff last year. The Slugs were cer
tainly a painful headache. In one year, the Slugs accum
ulated $463.42 worth of damages. Dean Williams raged, 
but the Slugs were prepared to pay the price for their 
rowdiness. Their spirits high, they held a painting party 
to restore the floor to its original beauty.
But dorm life for the Slugs is a thing of the past. In 
moving off-campus, the Slugs split up into small groups, 
and invaded Squirrel Hill, Shadyside, and Oakland. The 
Slugs, still together in spirit, have scattered throughout 
the city of Pittsburgh. They're still hell-raisers at C-MU; 
even the great piano caper attributed to the cunning 
of the slugs.
And to think it all started on 6-E .. .
iMIMAIfc CONFESSIONS>F THi UHM HOOMS GOULU St>L AK

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1977TARTANpage 11
SPimon, SP/iea&b <J&aavn
by Saul Carliner
Hi. Remember me, Simon Newman, whose roommate 
is Simon Goodfellow? I can recall wondering what Simon 
would be like, whether he turned out to be him. Brother, 
did he turn out to be him.0 We had our first fight last week. Not just any fight. 
It's like World War III broke out. I mean, the girl with the 
wooden leg upstairs nearly lost it banging through the 
floor; the kids next door could hear us through their 
headphones while their stereo was playing the love theme 
to Patton full blast; and even the dogs in the homes 
across the street were barking at us.
You'd think the fight would be over something im
portant, like his stereo being too loud, he leaves his dirty 
underwear on my pillow, he stole my deodorant (but GodIknows it still didn't help), or maybe I'm just too nice. 
But no, the argument got started over where the nearest 
Giant Eagle is.
Everyone should know that the nearest Giant Eagle is 
in Oakland, but this dummy insisted that it was in 
Squirrel Hill.
I told Simon, "You've got to walk up that big hill and 
that takes time. All you have to do to go to Oakland is 
to walk through Pitt.
"But there are more streets to cross," he commented.
"It doesn't matter, there's that hill."
"Besides they have a better selection in Squirrel Hill."
"They have nicer check out counters in uakiana."
'They sell Kosher foods up in Squirrel Hill."
"What do I care. I'm not Jewish?"
"Which reminds me, you didn't have to sit there eating 
that whole bag of Nacho Cheese Flavor Doritos on Yom 
Kippur. That was rude and insensitive."
"Eat one, eat 'em all. But you know, when your mo
ther sent you that tin of chocolate chip cookies, you 
could have given me some."
"Well, if you didn't eat all those Nacho Cheese Flavor 
Doritos, you wouldn't be so fat and I wouldn't have to 
watch your weight for you."
"Watch MY weight. Yours is doing amazing things all 
on its own."
"Oh, really?"
"If the belly fits, it's too fat."
"Calling me fat, huh. I might add that you are not 
only obese in the stomach, you suffer from an oversized 
mouth."
"What are you talking about?"
"Why did you tell Val I don't like her anymore?"
"Because you'd only told me a hundred times you 
want to dump her." 
"Since when did you start listening to what I say?"
"Beats me, because you're always full of bullshit."
It went on to include his dirty underwear, his noisy 
stereo, and he actually had the nerve to tell me I'm not 
only too neat, but stingy with my stereo (damn it. I'm
not going to let him scratch my records with his finger
nails he forgets to clip). Then he told me I'm screwed up, 
and I told him that if that were true. I'd probably be mar
ried, and for all the stuff my wife would give me, I could 
divorce her.
"Divorce me," he cried, "I wouldn't give you the satis
faction. I wouldn't even give you the time of day."
"Which suits me just fine," I retorted, "since you're 
clock is broken anyway." Then we just sat and stared at 
each other. And sat and stared at each other. I felt kind 
of stupid doing this after a while, since the sight of his 
face was making me sick. Then I began to feel the whole 
thing was silly, but didn't want to be the first to say "I'm 
sorry." So I just sat there, but after fifteen minutes, I 
got the impression that he didn't want to either. So I 
said, "Hey, can you keep it down."
"Keep what down?"
Then I told him that I wanted to say something, but 
not I'm sorry. He accepted my apology and we began to 
talk and all and say "Well, I really didn't mean that." 
Then Simon wondered how the whole thing got started 
in the first place.
"You know," he added, "This whole thing has made 
me hungry. Want something to eat?"
"Sure, why not," I replied.
"Well, I need to take a walk alone," Simon said, "but 
I won't be long. I'll go to the Giant Eagie in Squirrel 
Hill. It's closer." *
tAe ^8ouid
^ by Mark Aksoy
"As you well know |/m a very busy man, up to my 
private parts directing our latest film production "Hot 
Nights on Campus" so you'd better make it quick...now 
what's this you have here...tapes, and a whole heap of 
them too...and just what did you record that would be of 
interest to me? What? You mean you actually bugged 
your dormmate's rooms? ...ahhh, friends, enemies, lovers, 
everyone, I see...you doubtlessly know more about them 
now than they do themselves...sit down, Mr. Aksoy, sit 
^ down, make yourself at home...now if I can remember 
how this machine works...(click)...there we go (whirr)..."
"Billy, oh, Billy! How long I've yearned for this mo
ment! ...Now, Billy, now!" "Oh, shucks, Andrea, you 
know I have an organic chemistry final tomorrow and you 
keep stealing my half of the sheet"
...(whirr, click) "Well, well, I guess there's nothing like 
the real thing. If the rest of your material is as equally 
high in quality as this, then you can name your price!"
Intensely grateful, I sat back and relaxed as a sick smile 
of triumph stole across my face. Yes, when I look back, it 
all seemed so easy: making innocuous visits to peoples' 
rooms, planting my little electronic bugs in their calcula
tors when they weren't looking, patiently sitting wedged 
between pipes down in the basement boiler room listening 
in on channel after channel of intimate dialog, recording 
reel after reel of torrid interactions not ready for prime 
time. Oh, there were a few hitches. Even simple opera
tions like addition and subtraction would interrupt my 
reception with a series of beeps. And then one night. 
Security accidently picked up my signals on their walkietalkies. The scenario probably went like this: "...Dick, I 
could hardly believe my ears. I was walking through the 
lobby when my transceiver started spouting obscenities 
like 'Billy, Billy, how long I've yearned for this 
moment.' "
"Gosh, Pat, that sounds serious. We must contact head
quarters immediately...Hello, this is Dick Doright in 
Sector R. Strange signals of erogenous origin are eman
ating from the Morewood building. We are going to invest
igate. Over and out. Quick Pat, the student roster...let's 
see...ahah! William (Billy) Beevil, Room 9899...this must 
be it...let's go!"
Knock! Knock! Knock!........Knock! Knock! Knock!
"Hey man, what's going on...?"
"Freeze, this is Security! We know you must have 
some sort of illegal broadcasting devicc in this room so
make it easy for all of us and hand it over...unbelievable... 
what sort of sick mind would stoop to such a scheme..." 
Etc., etc. ,
I can recite the final conversation verbatim because, of 
course, I was down in the basement tuned into Room 
246.
So I became unimaginably rich with the handsome pay
ment from Porner Bros. Film Studios. I could afford text
books at the CMU bookstore, entire meals at the Tartan 
Grill and even my Student Activities Fee. Meanwhile, the 
movie itself was rapidly taking shape.
"Sir, this is the screenplay so farI think it has a great 
'symbolic beginning."
"Hmmm." The director scanned the opening page: 
[Wall of dormitory with animated face appears]. Hi 
Folks! Ever wonder what campus life is really like these 
days. Well, look behind my walls and see for yourself as I 
raise my shades, turn on my lights and...
The director gagged. "No...no! What do you writers 
think you're working for some sort of kiddie's hour? Preteens don't have enough money to be exploited!"
"Well, sir, here is our alternate screenplay  I think it 
has a great symbolic beginning."
The director again scanned the opening page, more 
quickly this time:
[Close-up on virile male wearing undersized tee-shirt 
with CMU insignia walking toward scantily clad blonde 
holding anthropology textbook]. Narrative voice in 
background: His ID card said "Adam Jones," her's said 
"Eve Smith" and their CMU Handbooks said there was no 
sin in the Garden of Morewood. but then again, hand
books are always slightly behind the times...
"Yes, yes, I like that, I like that!" The director clasped 
his hands together gleefully.
Sooner than I expected, the director and producer 
were clasping dollar bills between their hands. The film 
was a modest financial success. It appeared X-rated at the 
King's Court under the title "Carnal College" and predict
ably enough was panned by the critics. I saw all my taped 
sequences acted out in the flesh but I could never figure 
out whether it was shot on location or in an abandoned 
warehouse.
Last month, Porner Bros, hit upon the idea of re
cording similar material for a sequel in which the main 
characters return to CMU as grad students to continue 
their lewd shenanigans but of course with a more serious 
and intense dedication. Great idea. I thought, and made
preparations to visit Mudge Hall on the sly with my 
electronic gear. But, as I should have expected, all good 
schemes come to an inevitable end. Much to my surprise 
and chagrin, I discovered that the producer had contacted 
the university administration itself, offering a 50-50 split 
of the profits if they cooperated. Unbelievably enough, 
they agreed. I was completely left out of the deal, and 
next year's university budget will once again be in the 
black.
What am I to do? I'm no match for the university in 
terms of technical capabilities. Why, they reportedly plan 
to eavesdrop on virtually every dorm and frat room on 
campus with miniature microphones, telephone taps, the 
works very thorough and very devious. If you don't 
believe me, look under the plastic case of your Centrex 
phone after it is installed. With my once promising* 
snooping career at an end, I can only part with a word of 
advice to on-campus residents: live out your personal lives 
in as immoral and verbal a fashion as possible, unless you 
want your tuition to go up next year.
itycui *yttw&fe/ue& to
tAie 0&e<jpie<itA
by Jim Waidfogle
"Well, here I am," I thought to myself (there being no 
one else around to think, to). "Grade school, junior high, 
and high school are all behind me now. I stand here on 
the threshold of maturity, the threshold of knowledge, 
the threshold of the Li Thruya Teathe Fraternity!"
"Yes!" I cried aloud. "I am in no lowly dorm; no 
home for wayward freshman; no last resort of the desper
ate. I am in a genuine, honest-to Tolkien fraternity." Oh, 
what adventures lie on the long aii.* winding road before 
me?"
Inspired to no end by moving reverie, I whipped out 
my ever-handy pencil and notepad to pen the following 
immortal words:
Oh, walls of Li Thruya Teathe,
No longer silent be.
Your mysteries to me bequeath.
And let your tales flow free.
Nov riNUf e ev mbr8 ,1

---------------------------------------------------

page 12TARTANNovember 8, 1977
tAeitAek a SieVwwe'i nek a Mendel
With curiousity I burn,
(Oh, can't you see the glow?)
Please speak to me, that I may learn. 
What no one else may know.
Oh, tell me of Frank Johnson's pet,
A chimpanzee named Mabel.
And tell the tale of Jack, who barfed 
Upon the billiard table.
And Pete, who flunked Ceramics I, 
(How lowly can you get?)
He locked himself inside his room,
And hasn't come out yet.
And is it true that "Moondog" Barnes, 
Is raising talking plants?
And is he really training them,
To do a song-and-dance?
And did Mike Herman, really go,
To Homecoming in drag?
And does Sam Henson roll his joints, 
In South Dakota's flag?
And did Luke Oslow kill himself,
Last April with a gun?
And did they charge admission, like 
I know I would have done?
All this and more I long to know,
And yet in vain I seek,
But, oh, the tales that I would hear,
If only walls could speak.
by K. L. Bertrand
"Look, we've got to talk. It's important." 
As Lynn, my roomate, spoke I recalled the por
tentous note she had left for me on the apartment 
memo-board that morning: "GOT SOMETHING 
BIG TO TELL YOU-BE HOME AT 5 PM TO
DAY TO TALK." Something was going on, and 
I had no idea what. So, to satisfy my own cu
riosity, I took a seat and prepared for the worst.
"I don't know where to start, " she began, sit
ting down beside me. Lynn seemed tense, and her 
voice shook as she continued. "I never meant to 
do wrong, but somehow things got out of hand. I 
honestly didn't mean to hurt youplease believe 
me" Her face had become pale, and she was 
now nervously wringing her hands.
"It can't be that bad, Lynn. What exactly hap
pened? You didn't flood the bathroom again did 
you?" If that was all that had happened, she was 
definitely overacting.
"No, no. I wish it were that simple." Avoiding 
my stare, she got up and began pacing. "I guess 
it all started the second week we were living here. 
Yes, I remember it quite well. You were home the 
for weekend, so I was here alone. As it happened,
I had a lab report due that Monday, and wouldn't 
you know it, my typewriter ribbon broke. Well, 
that was the weekend it was raining so hard, so 
I didn't want to go down to Hunt to use their 
typewriter, and I" She broke off, and put a 
hand to her eyes.
"You okay?" I asked, touching her shoulder. 
Her odd manner was starting to frighten me. What 
could her terrible confession be?
Lynn nodded silently, and shoved her hand in 
a pocket. "God help me, I used your typewriter 
to type that report."
I snorted in amusement. Big deal! She used my 
typewriter two months ago to type some stupid 
report. "So what?" I said, chuckling. "It's no big 
thing. I wasn't here anyway. If that's all of your 
big confession, I think I'll go eat. Catch ya later."
Before I was halfway across the room, though, 
Lynn spoke again; "No, wait, there's more. But 
don't interrupt me; if I don't tell you now I never 
will. After the typewriter incident, it seemed like 
one thing after another. One day day I ate all the 
raisins and dates out of your granola. Another 
time I used your Fantastik Spray Cleaner on my 
bike. It got so I could hardly control myself. I'd 
vow not to use anything of yours that day, but 
before I knew what was going one, I'd have your 
detergent in my hand to do my laundry, or I'd 
have eaten half your Rich 'n Chips."
"You mean it was you that ate my Rich 'n 
Chips that time?" Borrowed spray cleaner did not 
bother me, but missing cookies did. "You told me 
Barney's dog got into them."
Lynn's eyes were getting wild. Her voice 
seemed higher and her breathing quicker. "I 
know, I know, it was all strung together with a 
web of lies. I'm so sorry; please forgive me. I 
just couldn't help myself." She collapsed onto the 
couch, sobbing.
Embracing my poor hysterical roomate, I tried 
to keep calm. "It's okay, don't worry about it. 
We'll start over. From now on, I'll help you to 
not borrow things anymore. You'll seewe'll 
make it all right."
"No we can't, " she gasped through hiccough
ing sobs. "It'll never be all right again. It's like 
a disease, it's"
I slapped her face as hard as I could.
"Why'd you do that?" she demanded.
"You were getting crazy."
"Well you didn't have to hit me."
"Sorry." Lynn rubbed her cheek and rocked 
back and forth on the couch. "Well look, have 
you tried Peer Help? They're trained to help 
people with problems like yours."
Her stare was frightened and unsure. "No, they 
can't help me. They'd lock me up and throw 
away the key. Please don't tell them! Promise me 
you won't."
"Okay, I promise." It was slowly dawning on 
me that my roomate was a disturbed, if not psy
chotic individual. "But you need help. We've got 
to get you some care."
Lynn swallowed, and blinking quickly, spoke. 
"I think I'll go home for a while. I just need some 
time to realx. Yes, going home would do me 
good. That's just what I'll do . . . ."
The alarm sounded harshly through Lynn's 
words. Reaching out, I snapped off the clanging 
clock, and pulled myself to conciousness.
"Lynn?" I said aloud. Wait a second, I don't 
have a roomate named Lynn. I don't even know 
anyone named Lynn. It must have been a dream, 
or rather a nightmare.
I pulled on Sandy's bathrobe as I struggled to 
my feet. Imagine anyone getting that bent out of 
shape over borrowing things. Crazy.
I used some of Janet's toothpaste to brush my 
teeth, and then headed for the kitchen. "Mid
terms must be getting to me," I thought, as I fried 
some of Denise's sausage.
Yes, that's all it wasmidterms.
& CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 1

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1977TARTANpage 13
fnnek Piece
by Judy Vitale
(What I am going to tell you now is bound to be 
confusing, but that's too bad. You see, it's just 
so very important that I get this all outambig
uities and contradictions included. I don't care 
if you know what bugs me as much as I care that 
/ know it. I have to find peace inside my tor
mented mind. All I hope from you is that you 
try to understand it and me.)
. . . Despite the lilt in my walk and in my hair, 
and the toothy smile spread across the characature I become as I emerge to face the outside 
world, I am not who I try to make you think 
I am.
Arrogant and confident, I saunter into the Coleseum inside Baker Hall. There they areall 
those people I don't know. Some of them ignore 
my arrival with a non-agressive but nonetheless 
cool indifference. They don't bother me much.
But there, are those people who do lookand for 
some reason I suspect that if there is one hair 
out of place or my grin has a smudge of peanut 
butter on it, they'll seeand tell all their friends 
about my inadequacies at loud beer parties and 
in between knocks on dormitory doors.
Oh, I hate it. It always feels so good to sit down 
next to someone I knoweven someone I vaguely 
know...
"Hi! How's it goin??? Ohyou too." Yeah, You 
too. Whew.
The bell rings. It starts. Be it the lecture, the 
recitation or the dreaded discussion, the same 
struggle starts whirling behind my eyes. I really 
hate it when they put human beings in graphic 
form:
"What the hell is that??? You say that's the 
number of French peasants suspected of 
fornication in 1617? Oh. Okay."
(God grant me a high QPA this term, i gotta 
get into grad school.)
So I take it, taste it, swallow it, perhaps digest 
it. . . and inevitably I find myself awake at five 
in the morning regurgitating it and inhaling cof
fee and cigarettes all at the same time.
I know you want it. Go ahead, ask"Where is 
it? We want the meticulously contrived details 
of the intimate confession of a lady who groans 
a lot when she makes it!!!"
Hubba-hubba-slurp-slurp.................................Sorry.
Although I may be the woman you hope I am, 
my most awful guilt has nothing to do with the 
groaning I do at night and sometimes in the 
late afternoon.
Here is my confessionBless me father, mother, 
and everyone else. . . Most of all, bless myself. 
For I have offended me. I am contrite for my 
guilt in the following masquerades:
1. Pretending to be happy when my heart aches.
2. Pretending to agree when I'd like to re-condition the person who made that narrow-minded 
remark.
3. Pretending that it is necessary to be someone I 
am not.
4. Not projecting my true feelings and worrying
too much about how I walk and talk.
To, you, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make a 
few points.
Everyone has to struggle to make him/her self 
comfortable under the intense pressures of the 
external world. I cannot deny that I am not 
alone in my fear, discontent and hypocrisy out 
there.
The guilt that I have confessed is not mine alone, 
either. I think that everyone who has ever worn a 
training bra knows what I'm getting at. . . Well 
maybe.
It's hard enough to get stared at, but when you 
have makeup, hair, smile, figure, carriage, poise, 
pomp, circumstance and peculiarities of your left 
pinky finger to coordinate into one unit of approvable self before your daily jury, you've 
got a lot more to deal with.
Also, not every man is used to hearing a woman 
say something intelligent that he didn't think of 
himself. So, she stammers, finds that just-right 
look, and says something that sounds important. 
When she lets all of her intelligence out, 
something abnormal is evident. "If she has 
enough time to think that hard, it's gonna be 
-LEFTOVERS!- for her old man!!" (We 
wouldn't want to suffer through leftovers now, 
would we?) "Let's discourage her."
Even when men have let me talk with them, I 
have seen how different we are. I can talk Malesian. . . I had three brothers who cried when I 
was born because I couldn't play basketball. . . 
They let me talk as long as I spoke in their 
Malesian. But when I came out with that dreaded 
"wimmin-talk"well! They couldn't under
stand me. Ohthere are those men who doat 
least one I know. Having him in my life is 
"utter" joy. (If you'll pardon the pun!)
So I play games a lot. So??? So it quashes my 
soul with repression rivaling the pressure of a vise 
grip because I have to be like a male just to sur
vive. That's what this confession is all about. I 
have to tell myself I won't do that anymore, that 
I can survive without being like them. When they 
point and cry, "Witch!" my strength will make 
them wallow in the foolish impressions they make
on me with misery and shame.
Remember:
When I wanted to dance, I had to wait until you 
asked me.
We went to the porno movie because you hate Liv 
Ullman.
I primped my hair so that you would talk to me 
and think I'm pretty.
I put gook on my face for the same reason. 
I dieted and starved so that I'd have at least a B+ 
figure.
I acted dumb so you'd feel smart.
And I hid my soul because you liked my legs bet
ter.
Forget it.
Now, you have to allow me to ask you to see ME 
as well as my carcass. We must work together to 
temper the cruel, strong and savage world with 
love, kindness and the tender touch that only I 
can give.
Now, when I groan at night I bask in the light 
of the moonand become envploped in the gentle 
yet firm -trength that fills my body as she, my 
goddess, luminates my life .
My confession is yours with an emphatic re
affirmation of the dignity of more than half 
the worldand with love.fll
* Next week FOLIO will publish a
J SPECIAL ISSUE ;
??*???*?
BOGGLERS*1*J If you have a dever problem (mathematical,
* alytica* thought provoking or otherwise) th 
t you reel me entire campus would enjoy, dr
* it off at Ski no Inio desk in care
* I AH i / tM . OLIU, uy lomc .ow iXJovembe.

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANNovember 8, 1977
3~Ae <@o/neMo/n
by Fritz Laporte
Yes, I do have a confession to make. Are you ready 
for this. . .1 like school. You know those funny buttons 
they were wearing in the bookstore. . . Yessiree, I really 
think that CMU is someplace special. Sure a lot of people 
put this place down. They say that the teachers can't 
teach and half the TAs don't know English. They com
plain about how bad the food is; they say it would give 
a garbage disposal indigestion and they write dumb things 
in the washrooms. And those same people find something 
rotten to say about Pittsburgh, like "it's the armpit of the 
world" or "on a clear day you can see the sky." Well, I'm 
really getting tired of hearing all their bad mouthings. A 
diploma from this place is gonna give them people good 
jobs. The food isn't half bad. As a matter of fact I gained 
a couple pounds since I've been here. It's great living on 
campus. I'm finally on my own, trying to reach a goal 
I've made for myself. There's a lot of things happening 
around Pittsburgh if you get yourself involved! Sure, 
there's academic pressure but what the heck? What did 
you expect? Kindergarden ? You know, whenever I write 
my cousin Clyde in Kansas I tell him "sometimes it's rough 
but you know^Clyde, it beats shoveling crap in Kansas.
That's his testimonial?"
"Yes sir."
"Well, he's definitely wacko. I'll draw up the papers
to commit him.
MORAL: "TO BE GREAT IS TO BE MISUNDER
STOOD
by Rick Kubinski
This story is going to blow the cover off perhaps one of 
the best-kept secrets in the history of Morewood Gardens. 
To keep this juicy item quiet, desk attendants have been 
bribed, resident assistants abducted, and friends threat
ened. Now, after more than 1 year of secrecy, with the 
incentive of being paid an undisclosed amount of cash 
by the FOLIO, I will reveal the secret of. . . the BARMPOT.
It all started out innocently enough last year on the 
fifth floor of D tower, Morewood Gardens. It seems that 
a male assailant had, time after time, eluded CMU secur
ity (not so tough, when you get right down to it) and 
broken into rooms in D tower, especially the fifth floor. 
Sometimes he was sleek and sneaky, picking locks on 
doors: sometimes he was rough and menacing, breaking
off hinges on doors, but always the result was the same; 
stolen merchandise. He never touched any of the girls, 
or anything that cost less than $59.95. The result of 
this D tower thievery was a lot of worried girls, and a 
lack of stereos and latest fall fashions from New York.
One day, when one of the fifth floor D tower girls 
(obviously of lesser intelligence) was looking up the 
meaning of the word bramble, she stumbled across the 
word Barmpot: "a large, exotic jungle rat, known for its 
terrifying ferocity and its lust for blood." Doing further 
research on the creature she discovered its extraordinary 
proportions. It was 2'A to 31/a feet long, 7 to 10 inches 
high, and it weighed 30 to 45 pounds. This young girl, 
whom we shall call Mary, then measured her closet 
which contained a lot of the latest fall fashions from New 
York, and found it to be an ideal home for a Barmpot of 
her very own. So she and her roommate, whom we shall
MASS - BUFFET - DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY 6:00 P.M.
CMUS CHAPEL (SKIB039)
THEME: The Meaning of Advent
is Coming To The
Square 
DanceSATURDAY 
NOVEMBER 12 
8-11:00 P.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM
Admission Free to First 
100 Persons! Come One, Come All! 
Singles, Couples.
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Folk Mass ^ Hunt Library 
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass j Multipurpose Room
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy -------- Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. Chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412)681-3181
Cutout for a weekend
*
per day 
^ Plus 15# per mile
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you ... its time 
to escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. 
So make plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever 
pastures are greener. Make your reservation with 
National today.
We feature GM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
National Car Rental
*You pay for gas and return car to renting city. Rate available Friday noon to 
Monday noon. Non-discountable rate subject to change without notice

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1977TARTANpage 15
call Jane, set out to find the answer to their worries.
Admittedly, locating a Barmpot in Pittsburgh, like 
anything else, was no easy chore. Time after time when 
they asked a proprietor if the store kept a supply of 
Barmpots, they were met with laughter from those who 
didn't know what a Barmpot was, or with shudders from 
those who did know what it was. Finally though, at "Al's 
Exotic Animals and Record Shop," they located a Barm
pot, and for 40 dollars became co-owners of it.
Getting it to the room was no trouble only because 
they invested another sixty dollars on a 14'' solid steel 
cage. It had four small holes at the top for air, and a 
mechanically controlled top, so that the animal's food 
could be thrown in and the top shut fast enough to keep 
the Barmpot caged. With a remote switch, the top could 
be opened and closed with the closet door shut, so this 
way "B.P." as they called him could attack if the wrong 
person opened the closet. A tiny red light was then put 
above the closet door to remind everyone who should 
know that the cage was open, and for God's sake don't 
open the door!
Well, for a few weeks, things on the fifth floor were 
pretty quiet. It was as if the word had gotten to the cul
prit that something was cookin' in D tower. Then, after 
about three weeks rest, the assailant struck, 2 doors 
down from Jane and Mary's. Finally, in the early evening 
of October 29, 1976, he hit their room.
As I understand it was quite a messy scene. He had 
everything pretty well cleaned out when he opened 
Mary's closet door, ignoring the little red light. B.P., 
always fed around 7 AM, was reasonably hungry and 
frankly quite irritated at not being let out of his cage for 
three weeks. He vented his frustration on the thief, whom 
we shall call Mr. Banks. Not that Mr. Banks didn't put up 
a valiant fight, it's just that he was outnumbered 69
I
(teeth) to 2 (legs). Although he was never actually appre
hended, Mr. Banks' screams can to this day be heard 
bouncing around D tower walls.
Recapturing and getting rid of B.P. was no problem 
because he seemed quite peaceful after what he had got 
of Mr. Banks. What exactly did he get, you ask? Well, 
let's put it this way: you've heard the old addage "he 
puts his pants on one leg at a time?" Well, for Mr. Banks 
it would be more like "he puts his pants on one leg. . ."
I
****




*
**












I
I
KEEP THOSE 
STORIES COMING HI!
On November 22nd, FOLIO will have 
open issue. There will be NO THEME
an 
I I
WE'LL TAKE ANYTHING
Creative writers (and anyone else), this is 
your big chance to submit old, good stor
ies and poems.
Fiction or articles should be typewritten, 
and under 1,200 words. Submit material 
to the TARTAN FOLIO, care of the Skibo Information desk, by Monday, Novem
ber 14th.
1977 BENJAMIN F. FAIRLESS MEMORIAL LECTURES
WHERRETT ROOM, 5:30 P.M.
NOVEMBER 8, 9, 10
 0 
SPEAKER: MONROE E. SPAGHT
DIRECTOR, ROYAL DUTCH-SHELL COMPANIES
"THE MULTINATIONAL CORPORATION: 
ITS MANNERS, METHODS AND MYTHS"
LECTURE TOPICS:
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8: MANNERS 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9: METHODS" 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10: MYTHS"
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK.

---------------------------------------------------

giHiiiiiiiiaiiimiiiiiiaiiiiiiiitiiiotiiHiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiHiiiHiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiNiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiii
ACTIVITIES BOARD FILMS COMMITTEE 
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU
TO HELP PICK SPRING SEMESTER'S THURSDAY AND FRIDAY FILMS
Please take a few moments to check any films listed below that you would like to see on next semester's film 
schedule. Please consider both the Thursday and Friday Film list. There is room provided at the bottom of both lists for 
any additional suggestions that you may have.
After completing the form, please tear it out and return it to the Skibo Information Desk no later than November 15th.
If you have any other suggestions, there will be a film committee meeting Nov. 16th at 4:30 in Skibo.
Thank you. r
THURSDAY FILMS
BergmanDe SicaZeffirelli
 Shoeshine Romeo and Juliet
 Passion of Anna Miracle of Milan
 The Magic Flute Brooks - Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
 Face to FaceTruffaut Pollack - This Property is Con
 The Bride Wore Black
 Hour of the Wolf Small Change
- The Wild Child
demned 
 Altman - The Long Goodbye
 Cries and Whispers Shoot the Piano Player
 Bed and Board
 Wertmuller - Swept Away
 Shame Welles - Citizen Karie
 Wilder - The Apartment
FelliniPolanski
 Rosemary's Baby
 Knife in the Water
Silent Movies
 Satyricon The Shiek
 Casanova Wings
 ClownsHitchcock Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe
 Frenzy Lies My Father Told Me
Anderson The Birds
 North by Northwest
 Maltese Falcon (Bogart)
 Casablanca (Bogart)- If Sabotage
 0 Lucky Man 39 Steps Cocteau - Beauty and the Beast The Lady Vanishes Clement - Forbidden Games
 Kurasawa - RashomonKubrichFord Lang ^M
 Paths of Glory Stagecoach Schlesinger - The Day of the
- 2001 How Green was My ValleyLocust
 Bogdanovich - The Last Picture 
Show
MGM Musicals
 Singing in the Rain 
 American in Paris
 A Star Is Born (Garland)
 fester Parade
 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers
 Richard
Lion in Winter
 A Man for All Seasons
 African Queen (Hepburn)
 The Rainmaker (Hepburn)
 Doctor Zhivago
 The Long Hot Summer
 Streetcar, Named Desire
 Long Day's Journey into Night
 The Blue Angel (Dietrich)
 Blonde Venus (Dietrich)
 The King of Marvin Gardens
 All About Eve (Davis)
 Jezebel (Davis)
 Of Human Bondage (Davis)
 Cousin Cousine
Other suggestions
FRIDAY FILMS
 The Drowning Pool
 A Star is Bom (Streisand)
 Silver Streak
 Wizards
 Three Women
 Dirty Duck
 Nasty Habits
 The Deep
 MGM Film Festival
 Bette Davis Film Festival
 Bogart Film Festival
 Sounder
 Sounder Part II
 Gone With the Wind
 Play it Again Sam
 Next Stop Greenwich Village
 The Passenger
 Fun With Dick and Jane
 Seven Percent Solution
 The Late Show
Nine Lives of Fritz the Cat
Harry and Walter Go to New York
Lies My Father Told Me
The Front Page
Bound for Glory
Images
 Network
 Rocky
 What's Up Tiger Lily
 Pink Panther Strikes Again
 The Party
 Ruling Class
 Scarecrow
 Brewster McCloud
 Mary Poppins
 Flash Gordon Series
 Jabberwocky
 Buffalo Bill & the Indians
 King of Hearts
 Black Sunday
 Andy Warhol's Bad
 Tommy
 The Eagle has Landed
 Obsession
 Towering Inferno
 Prisoner of Second Avenue
 Little Murders (Julls Feiffer)
 Family Plot.
 Robin and Marian
 The Fortune
 The Last Detail
 John and Mary
mm
S
Other suggestions

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENTDESERVING FULL PRAISE JULIA:
A Film Review 
Film: JULIA 
Director. Fred Zinneman 
Company .: 20th Century-Fox
by Joan Livitski
There are movies that make you laugh, 
ovies that make you cry, and movies that, 
make you think, and once in a great while 
you will come across a film that does it all. 
Julia is one of those films. Expansive part
ly due to the 40 year period it encom
passes, Julia also deals with extensive sub
ject matter.
The plot could have been taken from a 
well manufactured suspense novel, yet it 
*is a factual account of writer Lillian Heil
mans life. The aura of realism helps 
achieve the poignancy its audience is made 
to feel, but it goes much further than this.
Alvin Sargent, the screenwriter, while 
faithful to Heilmans facts, breaks the 
chronological narration into flashbacks. 
A rather dangerous technique to use be
cause of the risk of distracting from the 
fcnain idea. In Julia just the opposite oc
curs. The series of flashbacks provides the 
background needed while showing the pro
gression of the two womens friendship as 
well as the development of each individ
ually. Without this technique the audience 
would either be left with wide gaps, not 
knowing the rationale behind an action or 
attitude or it would be boring because it 
Ifcvould take too long to span 40 years be
ginning to end.
Though this process of regression leaves 
Julia open to its only major negative crit
icism, the decision to go with it is quickly 
supported and all is forgiven. There are 
just so many places and time periods the
audience is carted off to through flash
backs, that its difficult to adjust at the 
onset. The flashbacks get underway too 
fast; the result being that the movie ap
pears fragmented, a piecemeal. Yet the 
same uneasy effect thats detrimental in 
the opening is the basic tool that enables 
the audience to experience the events along with the actors.
The uncertainty the viewer feels because 
of the unpredictability as to when a flash
back will occur and where it will take 
them, is closely paralleled in the plot of the
story. Hints of the spreading fascism keeps 
cropping up leaving the audience to ques
tion what effect it will have on the two wo
men. But an even more direct relationship 
can be drawn when Lillian is requested by 
Julia, her girlhood friend, to smuggle 
$50,000.00 into Germany past the Natzies. 
The tension one feels for Lilly as she 
undergoes the scrutiny of the Natzies is 
heightened by the on-edge feeling created 
thru the method of plot execution.
The most overall general attribute of the 
production is how no one element strives 
to outdo any other, but rather works syinphonically as part of the whole orchestra
tion.
Jane Fonda, who plays Lillian, and 
Vanessa Redgrave as Julia, are undisputedly the two most central characters. Their 
relationship achieves a closeness far outdo
ing its male counterpart of the Newman/ 
Redford calibur. Their friendship gives 
them a common bond out of which stems 
their figjit for similar, but not same, goals.
This gives us two unique individuals that 
compliment each other. Lillian represents 
a pre-World War II orientation of living in 
an ivory tower world. Julias life is the 
harsh reality that brings Lilly out of her
self-centered, sheltered existence and into 
the world around her. In the process, it 
is pointed out to us as well as Lilly, that 
theres a danger in being too complacent.
Though Ms. Fonda and Ms. Redgrave 
are both leading ladies prestigious enough 
to be called stars, in the context of the 
film they are but two women, two individ
uals. There are glamorous scenes, and yet 
these are there because theyre an integral 
part of the story and not to give the la
dies a chance to shine. The nice thing is 
that it doesnt appear to bother them in 
the least. There is a certain glow radiating 
from them but this is due to their own 
energy and the fact that they are the pivot
points for the story which reflects off of 
them.
Jason Robards, who plays Dashiell 
Harnett, Lillians lover, provides a subtle 
comic relief with serious undertones. His 
wit comes across as amusing yet bitingly 
satirical. He keeps the story from get
ting too heavy. The character of Dash 
also allows for a viewpoint outside of the 
close female duet, as well as getting in a 
mans view.
The fact that nothing sticks out or over
powers the film as a whole, is largely due 
to the director, Fred Zinneman. A recur
rent theme in his films is a loner risking 
death to fight the establishment for pre
servation of his/her principles and ideals. 
That theme is used most effectively in this 
piece.
Zinneman also shows great concern for 
realistic details. With the time span ranging 
from 1918 to 1962, there are at least four 
distinct fashion variations that its evident 
he is aware of along with differences in the 
settings of each time period. The Beach 
House where Lillian and Dash lived to
gether was reconstructed in exact replica as 
was the interior of Sardis Restaurant as it 
was in 1934. Fred Zinneman evgn saw to 
it that the menus were authentic.
The train Lillian travels through Ger
many on happens to be the only steam lo
comotive in running condition other than 
one in a French museum. And while Lilly 
is a heavy smoker and Dash drinks, Zinne
man nor the actors let it daunt them that 
both Fonda and Robards had given up 
those habits prior to shooting. Luckily 
both actors are able to carry off the sub
stitution for the real thing believably.
If there is one contemporary film that 
is deserving of being a classic, Julia is that 
one. Not only is it entertaining, but theres 
a message well executed. As Ms. Fonda 
says, Julia. . .was able to perceive true 
suffering, and decided she cared more about that than she did about the fortunes 
of her own family. The strength of Julia 
is one Lillian benefited from and it is one 
we can,too.
VOIDOIDS: NEW WAVE IN
A Record Review 
Album: Blank Generation 
Artists: The Voidoids
> by David C. Lucas
For several years now, it has been ru
mored that a new wave had been devel
oped to innoculate Rock against the plague 
of blandness which has reduced the genre 
to pale remakes of Motown hits and hyper
orchestrated movie themes. Spawned in 
New York City, this new wave revolved 
around a Big Apple nightclub, CBGBs. 
Patti Smith was the first of these artists 
to break out of the New York Circuit. 
Finally, a handful of groups have gained 
recording contracts so that they can prove 
to the masses that the new wave does ac
tually exist.
Richard Hell began his new career with 
the Neon Boys (which later became Tele
vision.) After a stint with the New York 
Dolls offshoot, the Heartbreakers, he or
ganized the Voidoids. This group consists 
of Hell as bassist and lead vocalist, Robert 
Quine and Ivan Julian on guitars and Marc 
Bell on drums. Their first album is called 
Blank Generation.
The Voidoids are distinclty a punk 
band. Their image includes spit-tufted hair
dos, ripped T-shirts and ratty tennis shoes. 
The guitarsmanship is distorted and coarse.
the singing bad and the lyrics degenerate. 
Hells favorite vocal gesture is a roundtoned oh, a yelp which ought to attract 
sealhunters from miles around. His pronun
ciation is often hideous. As a songwriter, 
he ranges from astute street poet to cretin. 
Decide for yourself: The nurse adjusted 
her garters as I breathed my first. / The
doctor grabbed by throat and yelled Gods 
consolation prize. / I belong to the blank 
generation. And I can take it or leave it 
each time. The words of Love Comes in 
Spurts fail as literature, but the title suc
ceeds magnificently. The iconoclastic Liars 
Beware contains these adorable lyrics: 
Look out jerk / You ancient slut /1 cant
ROCK
endure your smirking smut. / your motives 
and your methods are not disguised / by 
your silk, soap, sex or your smiling lies.
From a musical point of view, a few 
songs on the album are worth listening to. 
Who Says (Its Good to Be Alive?) is a 
good example of the harshly entrancing 
rock that only a pair of guitars, a bass and 
drums can produce. The brief New Pleasure 
bears a distinct resemblance to the early 
Stones in its guitar riffs and Hells quasiBritish singing voice. Another World 
is an acidy love ballad that produces a 
seedy and sexy flavor with its sloppy ins
trumentation. Richard Hells vocal treat
ment is sensuous-desperate. Unfortunately, 
the excessive length of the tune causes a 
gradual deterioration which is complete by 
the time the 8:10 are over.
The only cut which suceeds musically 
and lyrically is The Plan The guitar licks 
are nostalgically 60s and Hells singing is 
entirely tolerable. The words unravel a 
mystery which isnt solved until the final 
line when it is discovered that the narrator 
has conceived a daughter for the sole pur
pose of incest. This single tune conveys 
the shocking tone and powerful music 
which is the calling card of punk.
As far as the rest of the album is con
cerned, the line between punk music and 
just-plain-bad music is too thin to make the 
release noteworthy.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTANNovember 8, 1977
ALECHINSKY SHOW AT THE SCAIFE
An Art Review 
Artist : Peirre Alechinsky 
Gallery : Scaife
by Marjorie Kernan.
Presently exhibiting at the Scaife 
Gallery is a retrospective show of the work 
of the French artist, Peirre Alechinsky. 
Alechinsky is the recipient of the Interna
tional award a biennial event which awards 
an artist with a major show and $50,000. 
provided by the Mellon Foundation. 
According to the catalogue, the selection 
of the recipient is made to represent out
standing artists of our day.
Alechinshy seems to be a popular choice 
of the Pittsburgh International series, in 
view of the fact that he has exhibited in 
every International since 1952. Alechinsky 
began his professional career in 1949 when 
he met the poet Dotremont, and became a 
member of the Cobra group. The name 
Cobra was an acronym representing the 
union of artists and writers from the cities 
of Copenhagen, Brussels, and Amsterdam. 
The formation of this group was based on a 
dissatisfaction with the European painting 
predominanat in that era, that of geometric 
abstraction.
Thus, they formed a great antipathy 
towards the work of Piet Mondrian, who to 
them represented pure intellectual abstrac
tion, excluding expression of emotion, and 
spontaneity. In this way then, the Cobra 
group concerned themselves with personal 
expression, using figurative imagery'.
In viewing Alechinskys work these 
concerns are obvious. The representation
al element is always apparent.even through 
the use of abstract color and scheme. In
Alechinskys earlier work one finds a very 
painterly approach, in his use of bright 
colors and especially in the application of 
the paint, which is done in an unconfined 
manner, making the motion of the painters 
arm as he made each stroke, obvious. This 
is yet another example of Alechinskys 
opposition to the hard edges of Moudrian.
In an early painting, Paysage Regardant 
(Gazing Landscape), Alechinskys sensiti
vity to the painterly process and represen
tational images, is typified. It is a small 
horizontal canvas in which the reference 
to landscape is inherent. It employs various 
colors and usages of paint. The painting is 
uncontrived and well balanced. In this 
sense then, I believe Alechinsky employs 
highly conventionalized forms.
Later in his career, after the Cobra 
group had disbanded. Alechinsky went to 
Japan to make a film on Calligraphy. He 
became greatly influenced by the calli
graphic image through a freind, the painter 
Wallasse Ting, who taught Alechinsky to 
paint his canvasses on the floor in the same 
manner as his contemporary, Jackson 
Pollack. At this point Alechinskys work 
began to simplify, stressing the personal 
symbolic imagery. Alechinsky used the 
same process of action painting as Pollack, 
but his style is drastically different. It 
reflected the subjective nature of such 
artists as Munch, Ensor, and Basch.
In Resume des Chapters Precedents, 
(1967), Alechinsky's concerns were mainly 
with a simple abstract expression of color, 
bordered by a series of line drawings in 
separate compartments, each clearly re
presentational, (i.e. snakes, humans, ani
mals copulating, etc.) In his later work, 
Alechinsky employs the symbolic to an 
even greater extent. Using bright colors, he 
retains the use of serialized boxes contain
ing purely literal pectoral images, toTHEATRE DESIGN
by John Goodman
The Theater Design show which opens 
tonight represents a first for the Forbes 
Street Gallery. In the past, the Gallery 
has concentrated on work done by senior 
Art majors. Recognizing that art is pro
duced in other departments as well, Direc
tor Janice Mauriello and senior Drama 
Design major Kevin Rupnik, decided to 
expand the range or work covered by the 
Gallery. This week, with drawings, models 
and costumes, youll see just what goes 
into a Drama production, as well as what 
comes out of it.
Although C-MU is considered by many 
to have the best Drama Design department 
in the East, very few people outside of that 
department even know what their work 
involves. The curriculum is basically divi
ded into three areas: scene design, cos
tumes, and lighting. While these areas are 
each important in themselves, the over
riding responsibility is for them to work 
together harmoniously to support the 
tenor of the play. The story then, dictates 
much of what can and cannot be done. For 
example, if the director decides to present 
the play in symbolic terms, the staging will 
be appropriately abstract; if it is to be a 
strict period piece, the staging will be cor
respondingly stylized. In either case, it is 
the designers responsiblity to see that the 
directors vision is translated into theatrical 
terms, and it is the director who has the
ultimate authority to accept or reject what 
is presented.
Designers rely upon certain techniques 
within each of the three areas of staging, 
to achieve the desired result. In set design, 
the degree of paintedness or, the degree 
to which three dimensional details, such as 
moldings, doorways or even pieces of fur
niture are rendered in two dimensions, 
affects the degree of realism which the 
audience perceives. Ironically enough, the 
most objectively realistic sets are not the 
most convincingly realistic. A certain exag
geration is necessary to make the set look 
real at the distance from which the 
audience will see it. Much the same is true 
of costumes. And in lighting, natural 
white light may not look natural at all. A 
gentle pink or straw tint can be more effec
tive in setting a congenial atmosphere when 
white would be too harsh and revealing. 
More fantastic effects are achieved with 
greater saturations of color. These lighting 
specifications are liid out on lighting plots, 
examples of which will be on exhibit at the 
show. These may be described as floor 
plans of the ceiling, giving the position 
and color of each of the lighting instru
ments used.
Most of the works on exhibit represent 
class projects or designs for actual produc
tions here at C-MU. Anyone whc has ever 
wondered how a play is produced, or any
one who merely enjoys stage design, should 
make a point of seeing this show sometime 
during the coming week. As always, there 
is a Grand Opening tonight, from 6:30 to 9, 
with refreshments served.
This column is written by members of the 
Forbes Street Gallery.
the point of becoming the representation 
of form, rather than pure form. One of his 
more recent paintings, Autant de Fenetres 
(So many windows), is an almost grid-like 
painting of the pictoral compartments, 
containing drawings of obvious forms in 
gaudy colors.
We see here the development of a 
painter, one whose career began as a 
reaction against a certain kind of painting, 
that of the hard-edge abstractionists. It 
is noteworthy in this sense, but I must 
state that I only find some of the actual 
painting noteworthy. It seems that in 
revolting against Mondrian et all, Alechin
sky has found meaningful forms of alter
native expression, especially in the freedom
of his use of paint, but that the concern 
with the basic figurative, mythological and 
sexual imagery have left me with the 
impression that there are certain regressive 
tendancies inherent to his work, through 
the perhaps overly simplistic intellectual 
concerns. This of course is a view biased by 
knowledge of the American Abstract 
Expressionists movement which took place 
at the same time, and which achieved a 
much greater degree of experimentationalism. There Alechinsky loses respect by 
comparison. But I would not say that 
Alechinskys work is invalid. Visually, it is 
extremely attractive and if one could make 
subjectivity the total basis of concern, it 
would be perfect.
HH OPEN HOUSE
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts will 
open its doors November 712, for a 
week-long series of entertainment events 
that are free and open to the public.
Activities will include noontime con
certs, dance presentations, opera and plays; 
and tours of Pittsburghs showplace for the 
arts.
The purpose of the week is to focus on 
Heinz Hall as a multi-purpose performing 
arts center, attracting visitors who may not 
have visited the Hall before; and to drama
tize the need for financial assistance from 
the general public. Donations are needed 
for the Halls Annual Sustaining Fund, to 
help offset the current operating deficit.
On Monday, November 7, from 12:30 
1:00 p.m., the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra will present a free Pops open re
hearsal with Andre Kostelanetz. The Pitts
burgh Opera will perform A Visit with 
Messieurs Puccini, Verdi, and Donizetti 
at 12:30 p.m. Tuesday, November 8. One 
act from the Broadway hit Same Time, 
Next Year will be presented at 12:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, November 9. On Thursday, 
November 10, at 12:30 p.m., the Civic 
Light Opera will present All Aboard for 
Broadway. Pittsburghs Dance Council 
will sponsor a special showing of two prin
cipal dancers of the American Ballet 
Theatre  Starr Danias and Clark Tippet 
at 12:30 p.m. Friday, November 11.
A special Heinz Hall day for children 
with musical and dance programs will 
round out the week of free events on Sa
turday, November 12, when the Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony jazz quartet performs at 
11:00 a.m.; and the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre presents excerpts from Coppelia 
and Nutcracker from 11:30 a.m. 
12:15 p.m.
More than half a million patrons attend 
events each year at Heinz Hall; the Open 
House Week is an effort to reach an even 
wider segment of the public with free acti
vities in the citys entertainment center.
The sumptuous showplace for the arts, 
called a dramatic example of the best 
kind of urban renewal by the New York 
Times at its 1971 opening, began as the 
Penn Theater in 1927. The building was re
constructed and dedicated as Heinz Hall 
for the Performing Arts in 1971 ... a gift 
to the Pittsburgh Symphony Society from 
the Howard Heinz Endowment ... to en
courage, foster and perpetuate the perfor
ming arts in the Greater Pittsburgh area. 
Built as a plush movie house by film mag
nate Marcus Loew, the old Penn Theater 
featured excellent acoustics plus a unique 
decor of red, black and white marble pillars 
and large, crystal chandeliers. Renovation 
was undertaken after lengthy Symphony 
deliberations, and with a burst of artistic 
energy the $10 million task was completed 
in 16 months.
The Pittsburgh Symphony is the propri
etor of the Hall, and four organizations 
share space  the Pittsburgh Opera Society, 
Civic Light Opera and Pittsburgh Youth 
Symphony. The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
also schedules performances at the Hall, 
along with a myriad of entertainment 
events throughout the annual season of 
more than 300 events.
Heinz Hall is devoted to bringing the 
best of the performing arts to all the 
people who live in and around Greater 
Pittsburgh, and in the entire tri-state 
region, and extends a cordial invitation to 
all to come in and enjoy Heinz Hall Open 
House Week November 712.
SHLOMO CARLEBACH
in
concert
at
Heinz Hall
"Enthusiastic and affectionate response ... He has the people 
with him. He can ask for no more. THE NEW YORK TI/V\ES
One of the most popular singer-guitarists on the AmericanJewish scene . .THE JEWISH CHRONICLE. London
Sun., Nov. 27, 8 p.m.
Tickets at $10, $9, $8, on sale at Heinz Hall Box Office 
and Area Dept. Stores. Bonus Croup Discounts. 281-8185.

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
THE JOHN MAYALL BAND
(
with special guests
THE JAMES COTTON BAND
FRIDAY, NOV. 11th
TWO SHOWS; 7:30 p.m. & 10:30 PM.
SKI BO BALLROOM
Tickets: $3.00 with Student I.D. 
$5.00 general public
Available at the Skibo Information Desk and Pitt Ticket Office

---------------------------------------------------

Your Resume
If you wish to have your resume typeset, please place a copy 
of it in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Mark it ATT: AMY BOYLE. In 710 days you may pick it 
up from the Business Manager at the Executive Office.
#Prices may vary with exceptionally long or short resumes, as this price is based on 
the average resume length, and is subject to change at any time.
CHECK THE NUTRITION BOARD AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE
KILTIE CAFE TO BE SURE YOURE GETTING YOUR
MINIMUM DAILY REQUIREMENTS
page 22TARTANNovember 8, 1977
RESUM
Due to the unprecedented 
demand for our typesetting ser
vices, the TARTAN is no longer 
able to promise a turn-around 
time of 3 days on resumes. 
Resumes will now take at least 7-
10 working days to complete.

EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
P.O. Box 25916-E.
Los Angeles, Calif. 90025
Name ________________
Address _______________
State_______________Zip
>0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
RESEARCH
Assistance
ALL SUBJECTS
Choose from our library of 7,000 topics. All 
papers have been prepared by our staff of 
professional writers to insure excellence. Send 
$1.00 (air mail postage) for the current edition 
of our mail order catalog.
We also provide original 
research - all fields. 
Thesis and dissertation 
assistance also available.

---------------------------------------------------

November 8, 1977TARTANpage 23 ^
Buggy Comments VOLLEYBALL RESULTS
by L.S.D.C. %
Sweepstakes 1978 continued to roll 
along smoothly last Sunday morning with 
the second fall freeroll practice of the 
school year. The first practice, held two 
weeks ago, went well but was rather short, 
not getting started until after 7:30 AM be
cause Daylight Savings Time was still in 
effect. With the change to Eastern Stan
dard Time, however, this weeks freeroll 
practice got underway at about 6:45 AM. 
This provided almost two hours of prac
tice time.
The weather for this weeks practice 
was probably the most perfect ever seen at 
either a fall or a spring freeroll. The skies 
were partly cloudy, the wind was calm and 
the temperature was in the mid-sixties. Its 
doubtful that the weather for race day 
next spring will be as accomodating.
As can be expected at a fall freeroll 
practice, not very many exciting things 
happened. Most of the seven fraternities 
and two independent organizations who 
were rolling were either training new driv
ers or letting their veteran drivers get the 
feel of the hill again after the long sum
mer aWay from buggy. PKA, however, 
made it quite clear that they would not 
rest on their laurels, but would be going all 
out again this year in an effort to extend 
their streak of Sweepstakes victories to 
four. They had several very impressive rolls 
with excellent rollouts and were actually 
running hot. BTP was also rolling well 
along with the C.I.A., who had quite a few 
pushers out for a fall freeroll. The big ex
citement of the morning was provided by 
SAE though, as one of their drivers ap
parently couldnt make it around the cor
ner at the bottom of the hill. The buggy 
was headed straight for the hay bales and 
everyone standing around them started to 
scramble for cover. At the last second how
ever, the driver put on the brakes and 
amazingly enough stopped just short of the 
hay. Fortunately nobody was injured in 
the incident.
The new follow car system instituted 
this fall seems to be working very well. It 
has eliminated most of the usual confusion 
at the top of the hill, caused in the past by 
having separate follow cars for each organ
ization. Whether or not it will be used in 
the spring remains to be seen.
In one of the most exciting and wellplayed volleyball matches in the history of 
Co-rec Volleyball, Coaches All-Stars 
squeezed past defending champions SAE 
13-15, 15-11, 15-13. As the scores show, it 
was a close contest the entire night with 
Coaches getting the key breaks when the 
final game was tied 11-11.
Playing for the champions were Mike 
Pochan, Dirk Kalp, Walt Tauche, Ray
Smith, Chris Scigliano, Lorrie Fucich, 
Jenny Caster, Laura Cooper, Karen 
Eldridge, Sue Williams, Shirley Birdy and 
Terri Steppe.
Playing for the runnerups were Dave 
Chandler, Kevin Greenawalt, Jim Parker, 
Mike Underhill, Mike Christy, Jan Kahl, 
Driana Davies, Davina Davies, Ann 
Dougherty, Jenny Donaldson, and Nancy 
\ Redard.
HEWLETT PACKARD DAY
3 GOOD REASONS 
TO VISIT THE CMU BOOKSTORE 
ON FRIDAY, NOV. 11
l.See the newest member of 
the first family of calcula
torsthe HP 19C. This is the 
hand-held printing model.
2. Learn all you want to know 
and more, about the entire 
H.P. family from the Hewlett 
Packard representative.
3. Get your free '78 "Great 
Calculators" Calendar.
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 11 
10 A.M. to 3 P.M.
CMU BOOKSTORE
JVC builds in what the others leave out.
ilEIJJL^J W E3T31
PRHBpBLjp^ fBmmm mh|
JVCs three new_top-of-the-line receivers feature the exclusiye S E A. 5-zone graphic equalizer system to give you complete command of the music spec trum from low lows to high highs. Lets you custom tailor your sound.
JVC S600 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
JVCs best 120 watts/ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000 Hz, with no more than 0 08% total harmonic distortion. 
Exclusive S.E.A. graphic equalizer 5- zone tone control.
JVC S400 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
Everything you want in a receiver. Exclusive S E A. graphic equalizer 80 
watts/ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000
Hz, with no more than 0 08% total harmonic distortion.
JVC S300 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver.
This power house delivers 50 watts/ ch. min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20,000 Hz, 
with no more than 0.1% total harmonic distortion S E A. 5-zone graphic equalizer. S E A. Record switch.
JVC S200 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver. 
35 watts/ch min. RMS, 8 ohms, 20-20.000 Hz, with no more than 0.5% total harmonic distortion
JVC SI 00 II AM/FM Stereo Receiver. 
20 watts/ch. min. RMS. 8 ohms, 40-20.000 Hz, witff no more than 0 5% total harmonic distortion.
ADD ANY OF THESE GREAT JVC COMPONENTS 
TO A JVC RECEIVER FOR AN UNBEATABLE SYSTEM.
  >  * !< ?*1
JVC KD 35 Cassette Deck with Dolby.
Exclusive Sen-Alloy head, 5 LED peak level indicators. Bias/EQ switches Auto-stop. Connect a timer and record 
when youre not there./r .............
JVC KD S200 II Cassette Deck. Unique 
JVC Super ANRS reduces tape hiss 5 peak-reading LEOs. Sen-Alloy head Automatic stop Bias/EQ switches Absentee recording when connected to timer.
JVC JL-F30 Fully Automatic Turntable.
Automatic tonearm lead-in, return and shutoff. Repeat play from one to six 
times, or continuously. Bel i drive motor. Oil damped cueing. Anti-skate, 2 speeds. Base & dust cover.
JVC JL-F50 Fully Automatic DirectDrive Turntable. Up front controls for operation with dust cover closed Au
tomatic lead-in, return and shutoff. One thru six replays, or continuous 
Speed control. Anti-skate 2 speeds Base & dust cover.
JVC SK 1000 3 Way Speaker System.
New Phase Moire technology Solid bass blend with smooth midrange and 
crisp highs Mid & high frequency con 
trols. 170 watts (peak), 85 watts RMSJVC
Available at these
IVC Spotlight dealers ^
AFC ELECTRONICS 5924 Penn Mall, Pittsburgh  AFC ELEC
TRONICS 4814 McKnigh. road. Pittsburgh  CAR HOME 
STEREO 197 Morgantown St. Uniontown  CAR HOME STEREO 
1725 Mileground, Morgantown  SOUNOWORLD 168 West 
Madison Avenue, Rochester  SOUNDWORLO McKnight Seibert 
Shopping Center, Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLO 2967 West Liber
ty Avenue, Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLO Allegheny Center Mall 
Terrace. Pittsburgh  SOUNDWORLD 3519 Forbes Avenue Pitt
sburgh  SOUNDWORLD 620 Alpha Drive, Pittsburgh 
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
TARTANS CLAW TOMCATS ...SET RECORD
Harriers Take 3rd-Prep For Nationals
by Cre
< The fight was over. Muhammad Ali 
was exhausted, bleeding with a badly 
bruised face. He was talking about the 
pain that he had only recently undergone
Someone asked a cross-country runner 
once what he thought about the last two 
Iniles of his race. He said that it got so 
painful that it made him go a little insane. 
He wondered why he was doing this. I 
felt the same way those last two rounds...
Whoever that honest runner was. he 
accurately described the common thoughts 
and feelings of cross-country athletes. It
is an ancient sport, for as long as man 
could exist man could run. Running was 
a key for survival-the survival of the 
fittest.
As are most cross-country competitions, 
the PAC championships held last Saturday 
morning at Greenville was a battle of the 
fittest. The most fit on that day was the 
individual winner for the third time, Peter 
Kummant, an All-American from 
Clevelands Case Western Reserve. He led 
his tribe to a narrow win over John Carroll, 
while the Tartans were pushed to third. 
These three teams were far ahead of the 
remaining teams in the conference.
The Tartan harriers performed courage
ously well. Easily the youngest team in the 
PAC with three freshmen, two sophomres, 
and two juniors forming the top seven.
they showed their lack of big-meet exper
ience. Dario Donatelli and Steve Faloon 
earned All-Conference status with seventh 
and tenth place finishes. Steve Crelli 
narrowly missed this recognition in eleven
th place. Jim Biery completed an excellent 
performance in the thirteeth position. 
Larry Gordon had another fine race in 
finishing eighteenth after receiving a deep 
spike wound through the foot and literally 
biting the turf. Mark Tarantino used his 
half-mile speed and finished 27th. Barry 
Vukoder also fell at the start, bounding up 
in one motion and continuing on bravely 
witli a bruised hip. He finished 33rd. The 
team scores for the top three indicate the 
closeness of the competition: Case
Western Reserve 40, John Carroll 41, 
and Carnegie-Mellon 59.
The race course was laid out over a 
rolling country club. It turned out to be a 
deceptively hard five miles as the runner, 
sapped in strength, reeled off the difficult 
miles in succession.
Next Saturday, November 12, is the 
NCAA Division 111 National Champion
ships in Cleveland. The competition at 
this level is always fierce. This is what the 
Tartans need and want. Coach Gary 
Meckley still has confidence in the team. 
Hopefully the harriers will return with 
personal bests.
by Dave Wills
Rick Leaman rushed for 136 yards 
and Bob Kennedy added 212 more yards 
of total offense as Carnegie-Mellon capped 
their championship season off with a 35-3 
thumping of the Thiel Tomcats. The win 
was sweet revenge for Coach Klausing and 
the Tartans, as it was Thiel who cost CMU 
a share of the PAC title last year with a late 
season tie. As usual, CMU ran pretty much 
at will, piling up 370 rushing yards to go 
>vith Kennedys 88 yards passing.
Reports out of Greenville, Pa. men
tioned that Carnegie-Mellon was thankful 
that they had already clinched the league 
title before facing the Tomcats. If the 
Tartans were thankful, they certainly 
didnt show it on their opening offensive
22 yard field goal attempt. James Shaffer 
converted' the attempt, and it was 7-3, 
CMU.
Ralph David returned Shaffers kickoff 
22 yards to the CMU 22 yard line, and the 
Tartan offense was in business again. 
Pounding the Thiel defensive line, Leaman, 
Gasior, and Kennedy alternated carries, 
grinding out the yardage until they reached 
the' Thiel 39 yard line, when Kennedy 
broke outside on a 29 yard scamper to the
10 yard line. Four plays later Gary Bonn 
scored the first of his three touchdowns on 
a 1 yard plunge. Again the P.A.T. was 
good and CMU led 14-3.
CMUs defense was able to hold Thiel 
on the next series, due in part to good hits 
by Mike Haupt and Tac Caine. The teams
Gary Bonn scores his third touchdown of the afternoon as John Bielich (77)looks on.
V 
The quarterback option being run here by Bob Kennedy has been a big part of the Tech offense this 
year. Here Kennedy picks up part of his 212 yards on Saturday.
series. Starting on their own 20 yard line, 
Tech methodically drove 80 yards in 12 
plays for the first score of the game. Ken
nedy converted one crucial 3rd down with 
an 11 yard option run, and then, finding 
Thiel defenders cheating against the run, 
passed to Craig Hladik over the middle for 
another 11 yard gain. Several off tackle 
runs by Leaman moved the ball to the 5 
yard line, before Leaman swept left for the 
touchdown. Mike Kostics P.A.T. was 
good, and the score was 7-0.
Kostics ensueing kickoff was grabbed 
by James Potts, who promptly stepped out 
of bounds on the one yard line. However, 
CMU could not contain Thiel, mainly beccause an. off sides and facemask penalty 
which moved tha ball to the 34 yard line. 
On the next play Thiel quarterback Charles 
Cole found Greg Williams wide open, team
ing up for a 56 yard pass reception. Keith 
Knestaut saved a touch down with a diving 
tackle and Pat Olivo, Rick Arturo, and 
Knestaut made three key plays, forcing a
exchanged punts, with Tech getting the 
advantage on the strength of Matt Wehrles 
48 yard punt. (Wehrle averaged 42.2 yards 
punting for the day.)
With the second quarter coming to a 
close, Kennedy passed to Tony Digoia for 
24 yards, and Leaman ran for 11 more 
yards, putting thew ball on Thiels 27. 
Kennedy then took the ball on an option, 
cut inside, and sprinted 24 yards before be
ing dragged down on the three. Gary Bonn 
then scored on a dive and the Tartans lead 
21-0 with 1 33 left in the 1st half.
A safety blitz by Don Stoebe enabled 
CMU to get the ball back with less than a 
minute left, but passes to Bonn and Hladik 
used up the clock, and the half ended.
Thiel was fired up in the second half, 
taking the kick off and marching to the 
Tartan 13, before Haupt, Wehrle, and Bob 
Hantz stopped the next three plays for a 
total of 1 yard gained. Penalties killed the 
next offensive series, but Hantz forced 
Cole to fumble and Mark Demo recovered
for CMU. However, the offense stalled 
again and it wasnt until early in the fourth 
quarter that Carnegie-Mellon started mov
ing. The inside running of Gasior and Lea
man moved the ball to Thiels 40 yard line. 
Three plays later it was on the three, 
thanks to a 15 yard pass from Kennedy to 
Bob Frye, and two penalties against the 
Tomcats. Bonns three yard run and 
Kostics P.A.T. made the score 28-3.
Thiel continued to be frustrated as a 79 
yard touchdown play, the second of the 
game, was called back due to an illegal rec
eiver downfield.
It was at this point that both teams 
began to substitute freely, but the excite
ment wasnt over yet. After Greg Gailey 
picked off a desperation pass, Rick Brown
directed the offense to the Tomcat 18 yard 
line, where Ralph David covered the rest 
of the distance on a sweep around right 
end. Kostics P.A.T. ended the scoring at 
CMU 35, Thiel 3.
The win gave CMU an 8-1 final record, 
and those 8 victories broke the previous 
record of 7. But the Tartans may not be 
through yet. Ranked 14th nationally in 
Division III proir to the Thiel game, Tech 
still has a 50-50 chance to advance to post
season play. The official word should 
come this Sunday, with the reward being 
an opportunity to win the playoffs and ad
vance to the A. Alonzo Stagg Bowl in 
Phoenix, Alabama, and the number one 
title for Division III.

Jm
*
Fight on the field? . . .or strange bedfellows?
