S tartan
________ mie \/l>>MA -7CM..mkAV 11
this week
November 18, 1975 Volume 76 Number 11
Coach Fired After Winning Season
by Charles Mitch
After 13 years as head football eoach at 
CMU, Joe Gasparella was released from his 
duties on Wednesday, November 12. 
James Banner, CMU Athletic Director, said 
the move was made in the best interests 
of the football program.
The move caught Gasparella completely 
off guard. I was asked by Jim Banner 
after the Allegheny game to be retained for 
another year, he commented when ap
proached by the TARTAN. I guess, he 
said, they must have had a change of 
heart.
Banner confirmed that such a discussion 
did occur, stating that after the Allegheny 
game [three weeks before the dismissal] I 
indicated that maybe he should have 
another year, but that discussion was never 
brought to a conclusion. At that time 
Gasparella told me he wanted more than 
just a year, Banner added. Banner defend
ed the sudden move saying, I felt it was 
necessary to make a change to reach our 
long range goals. Contrary to this, 
Gasparella said that he felt he may have 
been dismissed because he had asked for 
a change in staff for the next year.
Banner told me the reason for my dis
missal was because we didnt win the PAC 
Championship Gasparella stated. He
later added that he thought the decision
From I to r: Dennis Creehan, Bill Englehart, Head 
and Jim Youngblood.
was a matter of personalities. Banner 
wants to move in his type of people. Gas
parella characterized Banners viewpoint as 
being one of wanting to win at all costs. 
He charged that with such an attitude, 
Banner  is in the wrong ball park, he 
should have stayed at Pitt.
Banner stated that the decision was 
based on more than just not winning the 
PAC. He indicated that a number ofproblems existed with Gasparella but would not
Coach Joe Gasparella, Ned Mervos, Dennis Morabito
disclose what these were, stating that to 
discuss' the problems involved would not 
be fair to Gasparella. When asked if he 
felt Gasparellas professional commitment 
as an architect was hindering his effective
ness as a coach, Banner admitted that the 
amount of time Gasparella spent with 
his consulting firm  had played a role in 
the decision. Responding to speculation
that the decision had come from a higher
Facilities Cause 3-D Problems
photo by John Rose
Limited resources of the present facilities ob
structed dealing with the multitude of demands .
256 Candidates For 26 Seats
by Thomas Kendig
Difficulties in handling the new 3-D sys
tem of registration have delayed the availa
bility of demographic information on the 
student body at CMU. This has resulted in 
delays in the publication of the C-Book, 
the student directory put out by Alp ia Phi 
Omega.
As of Sunday, November 9, the A Phi O 
C-Book was submitted to the publisher, 
Gordon Siebert, a former CMU student. It 
will hopefully be done, distributed and on 
sale for 25 cents the week after Thanksgiv
ing.
Don Cohen, a graduate student and 
member of APhiO who was in charge of 
obtaining the data from Information Sys
tems explained the reason it took so long 
to get the file was Information Systems 
was snowed. Asa result, Cohen did not get 
the information file of names, addresses
10% Vote In Elections
by Claire Lee
I
Last Thursday and Friday, the Student 
Senate held its elections to fill 26 seats in 
the organization. Out of a total of 4,656 
eligible student voters, only 10.05% of 468 
of them cast ballots. Another interesting 
result of the election was that even though 
there were only a total of 17 candidates 
printed on the ballots all together, the total 
number of candidates counted was 256. 
(There were around 230 write-ins. Nine 
ballots were of the Mickey Mouse or 
blank category and were thus discarded.) 
This meant that approximately 40% of the 
voters wrote-in their own candidates. Jerry 
DiGennaro (Senate Rules
Committee Chairman) said that this 
probably suggests a mixture of very
interested persons and practical jokers.
The percentage of eligible voters from 
each college who balloted ranged from 
25.43% (GSIA) to 2.27% (SUPA). Two in
teresting aspects were noticed in these ex
tremes. There were no announced candi
dates for GSIA and yet it had the highest 
percentage of voters. Jerry thought that 
one of the main reasons that SUPA had 
only 4 ballots cast out of a possible 88 
was the fact that the polls were placed in 
GSIA , where SUPA students hardly ever 
go. The average was around 10% (CFA, 
10.09%; CIT,10%; H&SS,6.55%; MIS, 
9.38%)
The ballots were counted Friday night 
by members of the Tartan, A Phi O, SDC, 
and Jerry DiGennaro. Jerry said that that if 
continued on page five
and phone numbers of all CMU students 
until November 5. He then had to run his 
edit program on this data before it could 
be given to the printer. I think it will be 
reasonably accurate in terms of addresses, 
commented Colton: buI there were some 
problems wilii I ho data. in particular the 
incompleteness of the phono numbers. It 
seems that when people filled in the phone 
numbers on the 3-D forms (the source of 
the C-Book information) and they were 
from the Pittsburgh area, thcv did not put 
down the area code. This caused the com
puter to reject the phone number
given. So Cohen proceeded to search by 
hand, through the previous C-Books for the 
missing phone numbers, recording the 
number if the person lived in the same 
place.
The long delay in getting APhiO the file 
was caused by a series of problems. Robert 
Steck, Systems Analyst for Information 
Systems explained the problems as being 
three fold: 1) limited resources of the pre
sent information facilities obstructed them 
in dealing with 2) the multitude of 
demands placed on the system at the be
ginning of the semester mostly caused by 
3) the implementation of the new system 
which had many small problems that need
ed to be overcome.
In a more detailed manner, Mr. Steck 
explained , Information Systems was estab
lishing two new systems that were insti
tuted this semester The Student Records 
System (SRS), a system used by the cash
iers office and food service and the hous
ing office to handle financial matters. As a 
result of a massive effort on Stecks part, 
these systems were ready on time for this 
semesters registration.
The 3-D forms sat in Warner Hall for a 
month after being collected at registration; 
being only hand sorted during that period
continued on page five
authority, Banner insisted that he had 
made the move entirely on his own, but he 
did admit that President Cyert had approv
ed of the action.
No indication has been given as to a 
successor to the head coaching position. 
Banner did say however, that he is present
ly looking outside the university for the 
new coach. Banner did comment that it 
will be difficult to attract a high caliber 
coach to CMU but he felt that he might 
possibly be able to get a first assistant 
from one of the major universities to take 
the job.
Gasparella took over the head coaching 
job in 1963, on a part time basis. During 
his 13 seasons at the helm, CMU accumu
lated a record of 45-60-1, with his best sea
sons coming in 1966, 1970,1973 and this 
year, all with 5-3 records. A former Notre 
Dame quarterback, he played professional
ly for the Pittsburgh Steelers and the old 
Chicago Cardinals.
He assumed the coaching job full time 
this year, along with the authorization by 
Banner of three full time assistants. It was 
the first season in twenty years that the 
Tartans had a full time staff.
Gasparella commented that he had no 
plans at present for taking any other coach
ing positions. He added that he would have 
to consider all the conditions involved be 
fore he would accept another coaching 
position.
In an interview with the TARTAN ear
lier this year, Banner defined his long range 
plans. I think the goal for athletics at 
Carnegie-Mellon is to try to be the best in 
the Presidential Conference with an eye to 
the future. I think it might take five to 
seven years to really bring the program to 
that point. Theres a possibility of compet
ing with schools like Bucknell, Lehigh and 
Lafayette; schools that have very similiar 
academic standards. As far as the national 
theme is concerned that requires a great 
amount of resources.Donner Desk 
Opens Again
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Due to complaints about lack of secur
ity at Donner Hall, as of November 5, the 
Housing Office has opened an information 
desk from midnight to seven am '.even 
days a week. The desk is being manned by 
work-study students. There are no plans to 
keep the desk open twenty-four hours. 
For this reason, keys for the hill dorms are 
still being kept at Morewood Gardens main 
desk.
In an interview with Steve Zalewski, 
head of Campus Services, a food service 
questionaire sponsored jointly by Campus 
Services and Student Dormitory Council 
and possible food service changes were dis
cussed. The questionaire, covering such 
subjects as seconds at Skibo, menu choices, 
preparation and presentation of food has 
been completed and will be distributed in a 
few weeks. Mr. Zalewski wants the food 
service to ^encompass the general feelings 
of students.
Mandatory food contracts are being dis
cussed for residents of dorms where cook
ing is a safty hazard .(including Morewood 
and Mudge). If this plan went into effect, 
residents would be given their choice of
continued on page five

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975
editors note______
Change Of Heart
Pitts upset victory over Notre Dame this weekend brings 
back memories of another Pittsburgh team which grabbed 
national attention by beating the Fighting Irish forty-nine 
years ago. Carnegie Tech, a school primarily known for its 
academic quality in the engineering sciences also boasted of 
a strong football program in the 20s and 30s.
The downfall of Tech football came during World War II 
when the armed services demand for young men soared. 
After the war, Techs gridmeh tried to make a comeback. 
The drive was unsuccessful as the team suffered its worst 
defeats ever. During this period, Tech was plagued with 
many scoreless game streaks. In 1948, two thousand stu
dents rallied bitterly for a better football team. The protests 
prompted President Doherty to state his views on the 
schools athletic policies. Our athletic policy is simple and 
short. Basically it is this, those of us who are guiding the 
activities of Carnegie consider it, before all else, an educa
tionql institution. I, and those officers of the administra
tion and faculty working with me, desire to have the very best 
teams representing CIT on the athletic fields that this policy 
will permit.  Dohertys second point was, We welcome aid 
from alumni and have provided the machinery [ Walter Steffen 
Athletic Fund] to enable alumni to help pay the way of scholar-athletes, but no Carnegie funds may be used to support a 
member of any team because of his participation in athletics.  
In 1938, ten years earlier, the Walter Steffens Athletic 
Fund, made up of alumni donations and student support, 
provided scholarships for twenty-two athletes. During 
President Dohertys administration alumni donations declin
ed drastically. By 1948, the fund was only able to support 
four varsity athletes. Eventually the Steffens money was 
pooled into a general fund for regular grants and aid pro
grams for the needy students. The death of the Steffen Fund 
left Carnegie Tech in a peculiar situation. The schools 
standards of admission coupled with the inability to offer 
athletic scholarships severely hindered recruiting efforts. 
Over the next ten years, the Schools athletic policies as 
well as the quality of the football team changed very little. 
Apathy and mediocrity reigned.
* In 1963, a new football coach, Joe Gasparella was hired. 
During Gaspare I las twelve years at CMU, he was able to keep 
the varsity program alive despite an apathetic administration.
In 1963, Gasparella was quoted as saying, Its remarkable 
that we re able to beat anybody.' We have no football schol
arships here, and no support from the student body. He 
added sadly, We scramble every fall to fill uniforms.  The 
situation didnt change much over the years as Gasparella 
stated recently that he received zero support from the 
administration until two years ago. The administrations 
recent change in heart is demonstrated by the appointment 
of the new Athletic Director, James Banner.
As a long range goal Banner has indicated the desirability 
of what he called, the Ivy League approach.  This involves 
attracting high caliber athletes through the quality of compe
tition and education offered instead of buying them with 
scholarships. The canonical example of this approach is the 
Dartmouth team of several years ago, which successfully 
competed with major universities that offered athletic 
scholarships.
The administrations interest in such an approach has 
been made most apparent by the recent firing of Head 
Football Coach, Joe Gasparella. This sudden move rocked 
the university. The action was completely unanticipated by 
the rest of the Athletic Department. Director of Physical 
Education, Ray Haynes (Banners predecessor), found out 
about the change when he was out to lunch Thursday and 
someone asked him about a radio sports broadcast they 
had heard explaining the incident.
The abruptness of such a move is not typical of the admin
istrations approach to rectifying problems within the univer
sity. Making changes is a sound philosophy as long as the 
amount of friction is minimized during these changes. Firing 
a long time loyal employee is not conducive to staff moral.
For twelve years Joe Gasparella fought to keep the football 
program alive at CMU, with no help from the administration. 
Now that the administrations views have changed, Gasparella 
is the first to go. The untimeliness and method by which this 
man was released is a poor reflection on the university.
F.lly Zimmerman, Sports Editor
mfai.whyciotjoU'
io unzmpioiniefvt 
ui Pit tw'OVCUW  Ivh,
freed Kj
letters
NOT YET A NOVELIST 
Editor:
I am an associate professor 
of English who was told re
cently by the department chair
man that I had better seek em
ployment elsewhere because it is 
certain that I will be denied 
tenure at CMU. I am writing 
this letter to bring to your 
attention the reasons why, ac
cording to Dr. Eastman, my con
tract will not be renewed.
Dr. Eastman said that while 
I was considered to be a tough 
teacher who sets high stan
dards of excellence and one 
whose colleagues respect your 
work, your teaching, your pro
fessionalism, still it was the 
opinion of the departments Pro
motions and Tenure Committee 
that I was not yet a novelist
(despite the fact that I have 
published three novels, with a 
fourth to come out next year). 
Dr. Eastman went on to mention 
a departmental concern that 
much of your work deals with 
the military and that there is 
an absence of political, social 
or moral judgement in your 
publications - a lack of ethical 
dimension. Finally, Dr. East
man said that I had failed to 
provide energetic, programmatic 
leadership.
It is not my firing that I am 
protesting, but rather the rea
sons given for it. It is clear that 
my publications were given only 
cursory examinations by the 
Committee; otherwise the very 
odd departmental concerns men
tioned by the chairman could 
not have arisen. What bothers 
me most, however, is the impli
cation that a writer is expected
to restrict himself to an ethical 
framework. (It so happens that I 
do, if anyone on the Committee 
had taken the trouble to check - 
but that is beside the point.) It 
truly astonishes me that profes
sors of English, supposedly sensi
tive to any threat to academic 
freedom, could allow such a 
wretched implication to go un
challenged.
As far as my failure to pro
vide energetic, programmatic 
leadership is concerned: I was 
under the impression that I was 
hired to teach and publish. Since 
Professor G.H. Jones happens to 
be the efficient director of our 
four-man Creative Writing staff,
I can only wonder what sort of 
leadership was expected of me, 
and more than that, wonder why 
all this was not mentioned long 
ago so that I might shape up in
stead of having to ship out.
continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
November 18, 1975Number 11
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business ManagerTom Kirkland 
. News Editor:Charles Mitch 
Entertainment Editor:Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor:Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor:Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Rick Frantz. James Johnston. Courtney Larson, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Carl West, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withold from publication an -opy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carne
gie -Mellon University, Pittsbui Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [412} 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; (4121 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTANNovember 18, 1975Page 3
View from Warner Hallletters
continued from page two
Once again let me say that it 
is not my firing that I am pro
testing, but rather the inept de
liberations of my concerned col
leagues.
Martin Russ 
Associate professor, 
English Dept.
A JUST REWARD?
Editor:
The Pittsburgh Press of Thurs
day, November 13, bore the 
news that Joe Gasparella had 
stepped down as the head 
football coach at CMU. The fol
lowing mornings Post-Gazette 
claimed that Joe was fired, 
which leads me to believe that 
some foul-play is in the work. 
Athletic Director Jim Banner 
claims that the move was made 
for the good of the football pro
gram at CMU, yet his comments 
do not seem to indicate just 
what the good is. This years 
edition of the Tartans finished in 
a third-place tie with last years 
champions, John Carroll, who 
sport one of the better imple
mented and organized programs 
in small college footb/ll. 
Working with a new coaching 
staff and a young, inexperienced 
squad, Gasparella achieved 
respectability and competitive
ness in the first year of Banners 
tenure. It was Joes team, 
stocked through his boundless 
recruiting energies, and a 5-3 
record indicatees that his pro
gram is growing toward success.
I have been a firenti of Joes 
for the past ten years, having 
spent two years on his teams atH&SS &
An Open Letter to President 
Richard M. Cyert (from a defect
ing humanities student).
Dear Dr. Cyert,
As a humanities major who is 
witnessing, firsthand, the degra
dation and the demoralisation 
of the Humanities and the Social 
Sciences, by the constant bom
bardment of criticism to which 
it is subject, and the resulting 
malaise of its students, I would 
like to provide you, in brief, 
with the human and personal 
perspectives of the victims them
selves. Perhaps when you come 
to terms with and recognize the 
vitiating effect that the desparaging statements you have been 
wont to make has wrought, you 
will understnad the prudence of 
either softening or mercifully 
brutalizing your present stance.
In what may or may not be a 
foolhardy gesture, the university 
is playing Moses to the Humani
ties Israelites. But in this case. 
Moses is not leading, but insti
gating, an Exodus from his own 
literal land. The disillusioned 
denizens of the Humanities, 
faced with the hopeless truth 
that they will never rise from
CMU. The news of his firing 
came as a shock, for he has been 
the soul of football at CMU, 
keeping his teams competitive 
despite a campus community 
rife with apathy and thin in 
talen, with squads of as few as
25 players in recent years. Had it 
not been for his dedication, 
CMU would have no football 
program today.
Now the scene has changed, 
money is being pumped into 
football and Joes talents should 
be in demand. His record speaks 
for itself. Is dismissal a fit 
reward for hard work and de
dication?
W. P. Scattaregia
DE-EMPHASIS NUMBER ONE 
Editor:
In reference to the cartoon 
which appeared on page 19 of 
your Nov. 11, 1975 issue: this 
years defense (which your artist 
described as famous for de
emphasis) was ranked number 
1 in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference, while being last 
in average size.
D.A. Burgess
Editor's Note: Based on the re
cent decision of Athletic Direc
tor Jim Banner, PAC number 
one is not good enough.
The TARTAN welcomes 
comments from any member of 
the CMU community. Letters 
to the Editor are due by noon 
Wednesday during the week 
prior to publication.
All Letters to the Editor must 
be signed with the author's real 
name. Letters will be published 
without the authors name, upon 
request.
their imposed dung-heap, and 
that any attempts to do so will 
be savagely suppressed, are, in 
unsurprising numbers, departing 
for a more promised land, or 
planning to do so. The flak with 
which the Humanities students 
are hailed, rather than the 
garlands that adorn the shoul
ders of aspiring architects, en
gineers,- and other such chosen 
ones, is fostering an awareness of 
being in a hostile environment. 
The moral malaise of these un
fortunate and innocent victims is 
discouraging and depressing. At 
rock bottom, how are we to feel 
otherwise? Sensing out immiThose of us who came here did 
so becausc the university pro
mised to grant us the rich dimen
sions of the human experience.
nent abandonment, but not 
quite sure as to how painful it 
will be, we are acutely conscious 
of our lonely clique, and of the 
utter feeling of impotence that 
pervades it. We are not allowed 
to feel worthwhile. We are not 
allowed pride in our discipline. 
We are told that the universitys 
priority is to produce humanistic 
engineers, and not engineering
Just for this issue, may I sug
gest that the title of this column 
be changed to Reflections 
from One Wing of the College 
of Fine Arts? The Warner 
Hall implication somehow 
frightens me, and makes me 
wonder whether I should pontifically make some great state
ment: I have no such statement 
to make. There may be some 
worth, however, in sharing with 
the CMU family some of the re
actions I have experienced and 
some of the decisions I have 
made since joining the faculty 
in September of this year.
My first reaction was that 
CMU is a big university housed 
in a small space. I so not refer 
necessarily to size of student 
body when I say big, but I 
refer to a concept of profession
alism and achievement which 
lifts CMU above most of the 
other institutions of higher 
learning that I have known. The 
prospect of working in close 
contact with professional faculty 
and students with a declared 
sense of direction appealed to 
me. I responded eagerly to the 
idea of a quality product rather 
than a quantity product.
I have not been disappointed, 
for I believe that this is true at 
CMU. In our College, for in
stance, there is a concerted ef
fort always to keep the student 
exposed to the realities of the 
professional arena he is prepar
ing himself to enter. It is diffi
cult to be in an ivory tower 
in the College of Fine Arts.
One disturbing reflection I 
have had since coming here, 
however, is that I somehow feel 
that the CMU student body as a 
whole is not as aware of the pre
humanists. Those of us who 
came here did so because the 
university promised to grant us 
the rich dimensions of the hu
man experience, and we had no 
reason to doubt that pledge. 
Ironically, our human experi
ence here shall drive us from 
these grounds, if we desire a 
truly supportive and stimulating 
humanistic environment. It is 
being made apparent that such 
an atmosphere cannot be had for 
the student of the human condi
tion at Carnegie-Mellon Universi
ty. What might be a classic case 
of the discrepancy between ex
pectation and reality is actually 
betrayal, through the double 
face of the university--that of its 
public claims, humanities-wise, 
and its private face, which is dis
covered by becoming one of its 
own.
I am not concerned with the 
motivations of your policy as re
gards the Humanities and Social 
Sciences school. That is not 
central to the matter. The treat
ment given this ignoble appen
dage of the university is more in 
my interest. It is my conviction 
that the high level of attrition of 
this years freshman class, while 
understandable in light of th;
sence of the Department of 
Music as it might be. Is it lack of 
communication? Is it an exclus
iveness on the part of the CFA/ 
Music student? Is it an affirma
tion of the current truism You 
do vour thing and let me do 
mine?
Perhaps it is none of the 
above; perhaps it is a combina
tion of ail or part of them. But 
I do think that the Music stu
dent at CMU has an inner fire 
that wis ignited long before he 
entered CMU, and it is that re
sultant inner energy which pro
pels him even now. Perhaps the 
awareness of this Hound of 
Heaven (Francis Thompson) 
inside of him sets him apart 
somehow.
The Music Department at 
CMU is. not large - a few over 
200 majors, undergraduate and 
graduate. We are housed in the 
tennis-court side of the Fine 
Arts building, specifically the 
first floor and mezzanine, and we 
spill a bit over into Margaret 
Morrison Hall.
There is an electricity in the 
air around the Department. Im 
impressed with the complaints 
of the students: complaints of 
not sufficient practice space, not 
enough time to get in the neces
sary hours of practice, not being 
assigned to a chamber group, not 
enough orchestra rehearsal time 
... and on and on. These are 
complaints which are healthy 
and helpful. And they reflect 
the desire for individual develop
ment.
We are a bit separate in an
other way, for we are working 
in a field of endeavor which, at 
its best, appeals to a potential 
audience of somewhere in the
fact of the greater enrollment 
involved, will prove to be more 
than the university bargained 
for, largely because of an on
slaught of malaise. If the univer
sity expects to retain a vigorous 
and healthy humanities curricu
lum, rather than the defensive 
and ailing lame duck that it is 
now sponsoring, there must be 
either a leveling of disparage
ment or else criticism, unabusive 
in import, must be mixed with 
praise, to uphold the Humanities 
and Social Sciences as being a 
viable discipline. If the univer
sity wishes, in the future, to 
phase out the granting of degrees 
to humanities majors, it should 
take pity on the present suffer
ing of the doomed students, 
and, rather than leaving them 
twisting, slowly, slowly, in the 
wind, grant them a quick de
capitation with the guillotine. 
Either way, it seems to all that 
the university is willfully placing 
the School of Humanities and 
Social Sciences in the position 
of Troy, and is itself taking on 
the role of the fateful Trojan 
Horse.
Name Withheld by 
Authors Request.
ballpark of 2% of the population 
of the United States.
But despite the evert ignoring 
of the arts in many quarters and 
the limited performance arena 
awaiting us, we still persevere. 
We bother to do so because we 
literally cannot help ourselves. 
Most of us who are in the De
partment of Music were drawn 
into the field because of some 
significant (Im kidded for the 
overuse of that word) experience 
in or with music that happened 
early in our lives. We responded 
to it in many ways: emotionally, 
physically, sensuously, intellec
tually.
This first experience of joy in 
this world of sound in space 
dictated our next step: learning 
about this non-capturable phe
nomenon. We found that music 
has and is a language of its own. 
It has its own vocabulary which 
must be learned as diligently and 
deliberately as one learns to 
communicate in ones spoken 
tongue. There is architecture in 
music: an edifice of sound is as 
profound as an edifice of brick. 
There is design in Music: multi
colored and infinite in its spec
trum. There is logic and organi
zation in music: points of rea
son, points of tension, points of 
magnetism -- eternal direction.
The learning process, then, 
proceeded to get a bit much. We 
discovered that the joy of the in
itial exposure had given way to 
a drive inside that told us that 
in order to express yourself 
in this medium, you must be 
aware of its component parts. 
To play a musical paragraph, 
you must first learn to play a 
musical sentence; to play a mus
ical sentence, you must master 
the vocabulary of tones, of 
rhythms, of timbres, of textures. 
We must learn what has gone be
fore, what is now, and be open 
enough to cope with that which 
will appear.
Knowing that a music perfor
mance career is a result of the 
survival of the best, we still 
strive toward this goal. For we 
also know that when we learn to 
express ourselves in a musical 
language, we will be able to say 
something about life, about man 
in his universe, about the spiritu
ality that all men have in com
mon. We will say it -- and some 
will understand (thats the 2% 
mentioned earlier) and some 
will enjoy and wonder, and some 
will shake their heads.
Between now and the end of 
the semester are scheduled more 
than two dozen public examples 
of the way Department of Music 
students are developing in com
munication: recitals, concerts, 
opera scenes, large ensembles, 
solo performances. They are all 
free. At hours like 12:30 on 
Thursdays - Saturday and Sun
day afternoons - evenings. We 
welcome you to venture to the 
tennis court side of CFA and 
find out for yourself.
Robert Page 
Department Head 
Department of Music
CMU: Instigating an Exodus

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975
announcements
The Small Business Administration will
conduct a workshop for prospective small 
business owners on Monday, November 24, 
10:00 a.m.  6:00 p.m.. Room 2218 of 
the Federal Building.
It is designed to acquaint potential small 
business persons with fundamentals of 
effective management, and will include 
discussion on the following topics: market
ing, accounting, legal organization, financ
ing a new business, business taxation, busi
ness planning, and insurance.
Those wishing to attend should write 
or call SBA Pittsburgh District Office, 
listed under Federal Government in the 
telephone directory.
Feminist nun. Sister Jeannine Gramick
of the Sisters of Norte Dame, will spend a 
weekend in Pittsburgh on November 21st 
thru 23rd speaking and working with gay 
women and men. Her visit is being spon
sored by Dignity/Pittsburgh, the local 
chapter of Dignity, an international organi
zation of Catholic homosexuals.
On Friday evening, November 21 at 9:00, 
Sr. Jeannine will give her main address at 
the First Unitarian Church in Shadyside 
.at the corner of Ellsworth and Morewood 
Aves. Her topic will be THE GAY CHRIS
TIAN with emphasis on issues of particu
lar interest to women. Admission is free. 
A donation for the rental of the auditori
um is optional.
Saturday evening, November 22 at 8:30, 
Sr. Jeannine will lead an informal work
shop for women only at the Thomas 
Merton Center at 1223 E. Carson Street 
on Pittsburgh's South Side. The workshop 
will be concerned mostly with Lesbianism 
and the role of women in Dignity. Matters 
of interest to all women will be discussed. 
There will be no charge.
Interested in Japanese culture, language,
etc? Why not come to the Japanese Club 
meeting at the University of Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, Nov. 19 at 3:30. Place in Mervis Hall, on University Place (across from 
Soldiers and Sailors) in Room 214. For 
more information, call Dr. McDonald at 
624-5568, or Chuck Roberts at 687-1706.
There will be an.AB Coffeehouse this Fri
day, Nov. 21 in the Wherrett Room at 
9:30 pm featuring Gene Corbin, folk musi
cian. There will be refreshments served and 
admission is free.
Blood In Your Urine (Causes and Treat
ment)/' will be discussed at public health 
education seminar at the Central Medical 
Pavilion across from the Civic Arena, at 
7:30 pm on Thursday, November 20, 
1975.
This seminar is the tenth in a series pre
sented weekly on Thursday evenings in 
the hospital's dining room.
The next seminar topic, "A Look At 
Your Stomach From The Inside, will 
be presented on December 4, 1975. Each 
seminar is free of charge and open to the 
public.
Program on Human Sexuality: Sex and
the Law; Wednesday, November 19. Each 
state has its own "Blue laws'' that, if en* 
forced, would be surprising. More discon
certing is the way in which some of these 
are used today. This lecture will outline 
these laws and others concerning prostitu
tion, homosexuality, adultery, sexual activ
ity, and sexual offenders. Thomas Kerr, 
Esq., Professor, GSIA, CMU, will be the 
speaker.
Monday, November 17 at 8:00 pm - The
Bach Choir of Pittsburgh will perform 
Faure's ''Requiem'', J.S. Bach's ''Cantata 
51" ("Jauchzet Gott in alien Landen") and 
Mozart's "Coronation Mass" in Sacred 
Heart Church, Shady and Walnut in Shadyside.
Considering a graduate degree in business?
A discussion of the opportunities available 
and typical admissions requirements and 
procedures by Patricia Klahr, GSIA. Thurs
day, November 20, 4:00 pm, Room 11, 
Skibo.
Want to improve your problem solving?
Make quicker decisions? Remember things 
better? A problem solving course will 
be offered by the Psychology department 
during the spring semester under the code 
name, 85-111.
The course is practical in its orientation. 
It is designed to improve general skills 
that are used in many fields but usually 
not treated in departmental courses. The 
topics to be covered include memory and 
mnemonics, decision making, perceptual 
skills, planning, writing, and creativity.
The course is open to all students on 
campus: There are no prerequisites. The 
workload, however, will be moderate to 
heavy.
Premeds and other Health Profession stuentsl : Last call for MED-X (Medical Ex
perience Program) applications. Deadline 
for spring semester - November 21 in 
Doherty Hall 2114. Applications availahle 
in DH 2114.
Premed Juniors! : Pick up detailed instruc
tions for application to medical school 
from Premedical Advisory Committee in 
Doherty Hall 2114 unless you have re
ceived one in the mail.
Assault Defense Program Offered. Eight 
week program for women students, staff 
and faculty on type and nature of assaults 
and ways to defend yourself. Contact 
Department of Student Activities for 
more information. Must register in ad
vance.
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold a coffee with Emanuel Shimoni, 
Consul-General of Israel, on Wednesday, 
November 49 at 4-5:30 pm in the Hillel 
Lounge, 315 S. Beliefield.
Achtung!
The German Table meets every Tuesday 
for lunch in the Kiltie Cafe (lower Skibo) 
from 11:30 until whenever.
Have you ever thought about living in
Isreal for a while -- or even permanently? 
If you're interested in exploring the sub
ject, the "Information On Aliyah Confer
ence" on Sunday, November 23, from 2 to
5 pm is where you can find answers for 
your questions.
This is an opportunity to get accurate 
firsthand information about jobs, schools 
and housing in Israel. The Conference, 
which is free and open to the public, takes 
place at the Jewish Community Center, 
315 S. Belief ield Avenue.
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
has Israeli Dancing every Thursday evening 
at 7:30 pm in the Hillel Lounge, third 
floor, 315 S. Belief ield.
A party for all former Peace Corps and Vis
ta Volunteers will be held on Nov. 22. Beer 
and entertainment. Luthern Student Cen
ter. 8:00 pm. INDEPENDENT FOUNDA
TIONS 1-5829.
Informal Evening for Pre-Law students
with several CMU graduates who are now 
practicing law in Pittsburgh. November 20, 
1975, 7:30 pm Breed Hall. Come to hear, 
and to ask questions.
Come Celebrate Turkey Month with us.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON LUNCHEON 
FORUM: VISUAL PERCEPTION IS
WHAT YOU SEE WHAT YOU GET?
Is your point of view the same as your 
neighbors? Mark Friedman of the CMU 
Psychology Department will discuss the 
distinctive perceptual experience of each 
individual. Topic will include a di$pussion 
of the blind spot which all people have 
and an assessment of its effect. November 
20, 12:30 in the Wherret Room, Skibo. 
Don't be shy. Bring your friends.
Medieval-Dinner being planned for Decem
ber 10 at 6:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. 
Program will include traditional festive 
menu of the Medieval Period, pagentry, 
music, costumes and entertainment. Tic
kets available at Faculty Senate Office and 
at Skibo Information Desk. Open to 
Students, Staff and Faculty and their 
children. For further information contact 
the Department of Student Activities, 
CMU extension 214.
Experts on all aspects of national security
and international arms control will gather 
on Pitt's campus Friday, Nov. 21, through 
Sunday, Nov. 23, for a seminar on "Arms 
Control Today and Tomorrow," jointly 
sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh's 
Center for Arms Control and International 
Security Studies and the National Strategy 
Information Center.
The seminar, which will be held at the 
Webster Hall Hotel beginning noon, Fri
day, is free and open to the public. Ad
vance reservations are required.
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will have a Chanukah Party on Saturday, 
November 22, at 9 pm in the Hillel 
Lounge, third floor, 315 S. Belief ield Ave. 
Latkes will be served.
Classified
Need some extra cash? Administer survey
questionnaires to union construction work
ers, Saturday and Sunday, Nov. 22, 23, at 
a minimum of $5.00 per returned question
naire. For details call 621-2600 ext. 8866 
or stop by MMCC Room 309 between 
10-5 thru Friday Nov. 21.
Are you: A sophmore; interested in Nurs
ing; interested in a two year scholarship? 
Call 624-6397.
"(S)he who hesitates . .
My home in Sq. Hill is now for-rent. 
It has four bedrooms, 214 baths, a large 
livingroom, large dining room, fully 
equipped kitchen and laundry room. It's 
on main bus line. Area is quiet residential. 
Only 6 minutes to campus. 621-7751 
before 8:30 am or after 11 ;00 pm.
Hurry.
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pa> 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874.
Earn up to $80.00 per mqihth for 4 hours
of your time per wteek. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon
day through Friday. 682-3190.
If you need a ride to the Airport on Wed
Nov. 26, take the A PHI O THANKSGIV 
ING SHUTTLEBUS.
The bus is a 49-passenger PAT Coach mak
ing 3 trips to Greater Pittburgh Airport on 
26 November. The trips leave Morewood 
Main Entrance*at 10:45 am, 1:15 pm, and 
3:45 pm, respectively. They also leave 
Donner Main Entrance at 11:00 am, 1:30 
pm, and 4:00 pm respectively. The bus 
arrives at the Airport at (or before) 12 
noon, 2:30 pm, and 5:00 pm.
Make reservations at Skibo Desk, More
wood Desk, CMU Travel Office, or B-104 
Hammerschlag; otherwise, pay as you 
board if there's room. Price - $1.75. An
other service of Alpha Phi Omega.
WANTED: Former Peace Corps - Vista
Volunteers for social action projects. Con
tact: INDEPENDENT FOUNDATION
621-5829.
I
Professor Thomas Kerr 
will discuss
Sex and the Law
in Breed Hall 
Margaret Morrison
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act.
\
/

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 18, 1975Page 5
Election Results
continued from page one
any C-MU student feels that there was any 
discrepancy in the election, he has until 
November 25 to submit a written appeal to 
him for the Boards consideration. As he 
has not yet contacted all the winners, he is 
not sure of the exact number that will ac
cept, but he predicts that around 45 out of 
the 48 seats in Senate will be filled.
Jerry wishes to urge all the new senators 
to attend the Senate meeting on Wed., 
Nov. 11 at 5 30 p.m., when their terms be
gin. The meeting will be in the Wherrett 
Room. Lastly, he wants to thank everyone 
who has helped with the election, especial
ly A Phi 0, the Tartan, the poll workers, 
the voters and the candidates.
The winners of the Fall 75 Senate Elec
tion are the following:
You picked them.
CIT (8)
Peter Yacoe 
Rich Bogavich 
Grey Martin 
Andrew Funk 
Chud Fuellgraf 
Miguel Santoni 
Joe Watson 
Jim Johnston 
H&SS (5)
Lori Goldstein 
Diane Maddock 
Deborah Brannick 
Gwendolyn Holland 
Mary Jane Condor 
GSIA (1)
Bruce McGee
CFA (8)
John Giangregorio 
Rea Rosa V. Lloyd 
Scott Howell 
Clancey Martin 
Mark Frey 
Glenn Meader 
Robin Warr 
Jeff Katz 
SUPA
Richard Edahl 
MIS (3)
Donald Simon 
Mike Steidel 
Estelle H. Whitney
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
621-1988
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
r
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215-449- 2006
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS.................................................7:00 P.M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS............................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Fri.)......................................5:00 P.M.  Tech House
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
BN AI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
CAFE HILLEL 
Lunch Daily - 11:30 -1 p.m.
De/i Day is Thursday
at: Hillel Dining Club 
3rd Floor 
315 S. Bellefield 
endorsed by 
Rabbinical Board of Greater Pittsburgh
@5mr);
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
photo by Paul Williams 
I.W. Abel, President of the United Steel Workers 
delivered this years Fairless lectures last Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday.Cooking
continued from page one
doims. Cooking is presently allowed in the 
hill dorms. Reopening the Mudge kit
chen if only for a minimum of five meals a 
week is I a possibility. Mr. Zalewski 
stressed that the cost and effectiveness 
need to be discussed.
C-Book Delayed
continued from page one
while information services addressed itself 
to other matters. First on its list of priorit
ies was getting the schedule, file updated. 
They spent two weeks getting the add drop 
cards onto the system. There was a major 
problem with the optically marked cards 
used for add-drops which were not filled 
out pfoperly. Almost every card had to be 
hand checked because people would do 
such things as use their old student number 
instead instead of their present student 
number or improper course numbers etc. 
The next two weeks were spent straighten
ing out housing and food service and gett
ing their necessary records on the system. 
It then took 10 days to*1ceypunch the data 
off of the 3-D forms (part time outside 
help was hired to speed this process).
Due to the computer processing time it 
took another 10 days to run the enmassed 
data on the computer and update the Stud
ents Biographical (SB) file. It then took a 
final 10 days to generate the necessary file 
to give to APhiO When this file was being 
generated such problems as lack of disk 
space and virtual memory overflow slowed 
the process also.
Drive a
bargain
PERDAY
Plus 10 
per mile
We feature GM cars and 
offer S&H Green Stamps 
on U.S. rentals.
Now you can rent a new '76 air-conditioned 
Cutlass Supreme or similar car from National 
for only $5.95 per day, 10c per mile 
Rate available Friday noon to Monday noon. You 
pay only for gas you use.
For reservations, call us today.
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444 
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
National Car Rental
Net rates subject to change without notice 
Car must be returned to any location listed above
CLOSEOUT on FRAMES 
40% OFF...
... on Metal Section Frames, same as used by the Museum of Modern Art and all major galleries.
MOST SIZES, from 8" to 40" IN STOCK. SILVER AND GOLD. ALL MUST BE SOLD.
Several hundred sections in stock, first come, first served on all. We cannot reserve by phone.
THE .. .OFFICE MACHINE
(formerly Citron & Zecca) Tj
2109 Murray Ave. in Squirrel Hill

---------------------------------------------------

k tD j t-'ii ,<  t 11 f v. i ; 4 t'> t n t
Page 6THE TARTANNovember 18, 1975
ULTIMATE FRISBEEBirth And Growth Of A Newcomer Sport
All of the art and skill'of frisbee are 
combined in the team sport of Ultimate 
Frisbee. The game is played on a 40 x 60 
yard field by two seven man teams. 
Ultimate requires endurance as it is 
actually the only sport where everyone 
is running all the time. All players are in
volved with both defense and offense.
The object is to complete a pass over 
the goal line which runs the length of the 
field. Each goal is worth one point. The 
team on offense attempts to advance the 
Frisbee by passing it to a teammate, while 
the team on defense will guard opponents 
in an attempt to block the pass.
Ideally, Ultimate is non contact, 
but realistically there is limited contact 
similar to basketball. However, one may 
not knock the frisbee from an opponents 
hand; only after the Frisbee leaves a 
players hand can it be blocked.
If a pass is incomplete (i.e. intercepted, 
blocked, or out of bounds) then the de-* 
fenders become the offenders and advance 
the Frisbee toward their opponents goal 
line. Play continues until a goal is scored.
Unlike any other sport, Ultimate 
Frisbee requires no referees. A passer may 
call a foul if he feels th path of his pass 
was flagrantly altered by body contact 
with the defender. The Frisbee is then
Ideally Ultimate Frisbee is a non-contact sport, but
brought back to the site of the foul and 
play Is resumed from that point. This is a 
tribute to the honor and integrity exhib
ited by both teammates and opponents. It 
is this philosophy that attracts most play
ers.
Winning a game is satisfying, but enjoy
ment is what the sport is all about. 
Practices are generally informal sessions for 
improving skills aqd learning teamwork. On 
and off the field the players exchange ideas 
about Ultimate as well as freestyle Frisbee 
and tournament play.
realistically ...
Ultimate Frisbee began in 1967 when 
students from Columbia High School in 
Maplewood, New Jersey invented and pro
moted the sport. These students upon grad
uation introduced the sport to the colleges 
they attended. The first intercollegiate 
game was played between Princeton and 
Rutgers in 1972 on the field used for the 
first college football game 103 years 
earlier.
As the game has progressed, the Inter
national Frisbee Association (IFA) has 
become involved in promoting Ultimate
Frisbee. However, in exchange for their 
support, they have instituted some rule 
changes to make the game into what they 
consider a better spectator sport. This ver
sion is called the New Ultimate.
It has received mixed reactions from 
veteran players who often resent the 
imposed changes which include a 20 yard 
end zone with a Hot Spot 15 yards deep, 
10 yards wide and 5 yards beyond the goal 
line. Three points are given for a pass com
pleted over the goal line but not in the 
Hot Spot, and 5 points for a Hot Spot 
goal. There must also be one man as a 
goalie (defender of the Hot Spot), who 
may not cross the midfield line.
Introduced this season, the new game i? 
played by 60 teams, according to the IF. 
in California, Michigan, Canada, and the 
Northeast. The National Championships 
this year will be played under the new 
rules, so conformity is a must for those 
who want the coveted Gold Frisbee.
Only now reaching its adolescent 
stage, Ultimate Frisbee is still a growing 
sport. Todays teams are only a beginning, 
the ground level of what may become a 
national pastime. Perhaps, one day the 
paths pioneered by teams such as 
Rensselear will lead to a new addition in 
the global sphere of athletic competition.
IttRSWVafternoon'IUNCHE0N FORUMS
'K
NOVEMBER20
Visual Perception:
Is What You See 
What You Get'?
K;. ' -
Mark Friedman, 
Psychology Dept
NOVEMBER
27
Thanksgiving
No Forum
? /
12:30 
Wherrett Room 
Bring lunch and a friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Planning
cv
5 * 
ftV

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember
Changing the worldb a fine idea, butwhere do you start ?
We asked the same question when we first 
found ourselves in a position to make the world 
a more livable place.
At Kodak, we started close to home. In 
Rochester, New York. We cut river pollution with 
one of the most efficient industrial waste water 
treatment plants in the country. We cut air pollu 
tion with scrubbers, adsorbers and electrostatic 
precipitators. We helped set up a black enter 
prise program in downtown Rochester.
Why? Helping to combat water pollution not 
only benefits society but us as well as we need 
clean water to make film. Our combustible waste 
disposal facility not only reduces air pollution 
but also helps pay for itself in heat and steam
production and silver recovery. The black enter
prise program not only helps people who arent 
well off but also helps stabilize communities in 
which Kodak can work and grow.
In short, its simply good business. And 
were in business to make a profit. But in further
ing our business interests, we also further so
cietys interests.
After all, our business depends on society. 
So we care what happens to it.
Kodak. 
More than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975
Burton & Jarret: Separating The Tops
recording to last years award winning 
Solo Concerts, one may argue that the 
tremendous swirls were missing from the 
Kohn disc, but Jarret is without a doubt 
searching for a new sound that uses a dif
ferent type of piano technique. This record 
has to be heard to appreciate the fascinat
ing improvisations that Jarret creates at the 
keyboard.
There is only one performance that 
Jarret has given that I felt had truly sur
passed this Kohn performance and that is 
the show that Keith Jarret delivered last 
fall at Soldiers and Sailors Hall. That 
Pittsburgh concert had to have outdone 
all of Jarrets other recordings because I 
got to see and hear the keyboard wizard 
perform his magic in person.
With a slow drawl 
in the concert hall
Quiff
I want to wish a speedy recovery to Beth 
because the lady is recovering from a bad 
accident.
rock. There seemd to be great depth to the 
lengthy jazz numbers. John Abercrombie 
displayed a dynamic lead quitar yet he al
ways worked well with the rest of his 
band for the best possible group effect. I 
was particularly impressed with the beauti
ful endings that marked each song. After 
an hour of dazzling crescendos and modest 
solos, the trio (quartet) said goodnight.
Everyone made a quick dash for the 
stairwells during intermission because there 
was no smoking in the hall. We all had 
trouble hiding our vices between the two 
performances, but everybody seemed to 
stumble back to their seats in fairly good 
spirits. The stage had been drastically 
changed but I didnt even notice until 
Gary Burton took the stage. Burtons 
quintet (they were billed as a quartet) 
didnt have any trouble launching right 
into their first song.
I was really surprised to hear how tight 
the five man band sounded. It wouldnt 
surprise me to hear that Gary Burton is 
really rehearsing a lot more these days. 
The whole set sounded damn professional, 
especially the way Burton mixed up the 
set with songs from various jazz composers. 
There was a song from pianist Keith 
Jarret as well as one by Michael Gibbs. 
The bassist (Steve Swollow) also wrote a 
few songs for the performance. It was 
Swollow who had people falling off their 
chairs because of the crazy look on his 
face. Steve held his bass about three inches 
from his ear and he seemed to be envision
ing God while he played these speedygonzales bass lines.
Before I forget, Id better mention how 
incredible Gary Burton was. He played the 
vibraphone with such intensity that the 
crowd couldnt help but yell out exciting 
whoops during Burtons best solos. Burton 
played with between four and six mallets 
during the entire performance. His runs 
were really breathtaking and even more so, 
if youve ever seen any other vibraphone 
players.
The other members of the band includ
ed two guitarists (one on six string and the 
other on twelve), and a drummer who de
tracted from the band at various times.
I didnt catch the name of the twelvestring guitar player but he played with all 
the speed and technique of Jeff Beck or 
Frank Zappa.
If I had any complaints about the con
cert it was that it wasnt long enough. I 
wish that they would have played all 
night. The small crowd Filed out of the 
auditorium and there was a strange silence
Go home on Allegheny. And 
save yourself some money. We
offer a wide variety of discount 
travel plans with big savings for 
groups and individuals.
The Liberty Fare. You can go 
home and a lot of other places 
besides, with unlimited travel at 
one low price. You get a choice of 
3 plans, too7 days for $129, 14 
days for $ 149 and 21 days for $ 179. 
Good everywhere we fly, except 
Canada.
Group 10. Save up to 33Wo 
roundtrip (up to 20% one way). 
Groups of 10 or more save when 
they purchase tickets 48 hours in 
advance and take off together. And 
you can each return separately, if 
you like. Good everywhere we fly.
Group 4-9. Save up to 20% 
roundtrip. Groups of 4 to 9 save 
when you make reservations 48 
hours in advance and fly together 
to and from selected cities. Stay at 
least 3 but no more than 30 days.
Leave before noon on weekdays 
anytime on weekends.
Weekend. Save up to 25% on 
your roundtrip ticket when you 
go and return on a Saturday or 
Sunday.
For complete information on 
all of our money-saving discount 
travel plans and flight reservations, 
see your Travel Agent or call your 
local Allegheny Airlines reserva
tions number. And get ready to go 
home or anywhere else.
IMY
Americas 6th largest passenger-carrying airline.
Our pals at Pitt pulled off a fine show 
last Saturday, November the 8th. The 
event was The Gary Burton Quartet in 
concert at Carnegie Music Hall. It was 
really nice to see a small jazz show because 
promoters dont seem interested in this 
kind of show these days. John Ferrante, 
(senior in History), accompanied me after 
I failed to find another soul who seemed 
willing to lend a jazzy ear.
We pushed like madmen to get to the 
auditorium in time for good seats,rbut we 
could have crawled down to the the Music 
Hall because the place was far from crowd
ed even though the most expensive seats 
were only $2.50. The show started prompt
ly with The John Abercrombie (Veteran of 
the Billy Cobham band) Trio. Actually, 
the trio turned out to be a quartet but 
that didnt stop me from enjoying the 
music. Abercrombie played a powerful 
set that immediately reminded me of the 
original Mahavishnu Orchestra. In fact, 
the bass player (Rick Laird) started with 
John McClaughlin and company.
Anyway, Abercrombies band played a 
combination of freeform jazz and hard-ass
Keith Jarret just refuses 
rock-music audiences
to stop impressing
in the air. Perhaps the audience had been 
really moved or else there was just little 
to say; either way it was an evening of ma
ture, well-developed music. The form was 
jazz at its best.
Speaking of jazz, one of jazzs finest 
pianists has just released a new two record 
set of some improvisations recorded live 
in concert. Keith Jarret has just released 
The Koln Concert and its a fascinating 
work of art. Piano is the instrument used 
on the entire four sided set, but after hear
ing the piece youll understand immediate
ly why Jarret chose to leave out any addi
tional instrumentation.
Jarret performs with a delicate touch 
that is simply not available anymore. This 
entire recording is so fragile that it can 
move any listener to the verge of tears. 
I listened to one side and I simply couldnt 
wait to play the remaining three. The 
Kohn Concert is a well balanced perfor
mance of classical, ethnic and jazz-piano 
styles. Throughout the work, a careful 
listener could probably pick out the twen
ty most popular styles of jazz-piano that 
have appeared over the last seventy years. 
Jarret just refuses to stop impressing musi
cal audiences.
If one were to compare this new live

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 18, 1975Page 9
The Pittsburgh Film-Makers continue their
series of experimental and classic films 
with Independent Film-Maker Freude 
Bartlett on Friday, November 21. Ms. 
Bartlett will present and discuss films on 
the topic Women in the Arts. Films 
included are Womanhouse, a documen
tary about the Feminist Art project at 
Cal Arts, directed by Johanna Demetrakas; 
and Never Give up, Ann Hersheys 
inside look at the photographer Imogen 
Cunninghan, who is now 93. She has 
witty comments on some of the greats 
in photography and she herself is a delight. 
The films are shown at the Pittsburgh 
Film-Makers Screening Room, 205 Oak
land Ave. Admission is $1.00. At 8:00 pm.
A sparking new stage production, Gene 
Kellys Salute to Broadway, from a new 
book by Alan Jay Lerner and starring 
Howard Keel, Ken Berry and Mimi Hines 
will open at the Nixon Theatre on Thurs., 
November 27, 1975 for a three-day engage
ment in the course of a national tour. 
Evening performances at 8:30 pm with 
Matinees Friday and Saturday at 2:30 pm.
In teaming Howard Keel, who rose 
to fame as the star of a host of MGMs 
most lavish and successful musicals, Ken 
Barry, who became a favorite of millions as 
the star of televisions top-rated series, 
Mayberry RFD and Mimi Hines, one of 
the nations top night club stars, the 
producers of Gene Kellys Salute to 
Broadway have put together a rare com
bination of singing, comedic and dramatic 
talents.
The book is by Alan Jay Lerner who 
teamed with composer Frederick Loewe 
to turn out a number of the greatest 
musical stage hits in the history of the 
American theatre, all of which became 
notable film successes. These include 
My Fair Lady, Brigadoon, Paint Your 
Wagon and On a Clear Day. Songs from 
this quartet will be heard in Gene Kellys 
Salute to Broadway.
Lerners original book for this spritely 
new production spins a tale of 50 years
of Broadway musicals via a varied combina
tion of music, comedy, dance and drama. 
In terms of chronology, it will range from 
the days of George M. Cohans Yankee 
Doodle Dandy to Hair and Jesus Christ 
Superstar.
$1.00 with CMU ID, $2.00 without.
Carmen, the dramatic and colorful opera
by 19th-century composer Georges Bizet, 
produced by the Pittsburgh Opera, will 
open as scheduled on November 20 at
The National Lampoon Show starring 
Ellen Foley, Barry Diamond, Mimi 
Kennedy, Meatloaf, Jim Hosbein, Larry 
Dilg, comes to the CMU Skibo Ballroom on 
November 23 at 8:00. Written by the 
editors of the National Lampoon Magazine, 
the worlds most widely read humor maga
zine, the comedy revue is currently on a 
tour of colleges throughout the United States and Canada. Previously, the
National Lampoon Show enjoyed a high
ly-praised Off-Broadway run. The National 
Lampoon Show  right in your college, 
right in your hometown, right in your face.
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts, accord
ing to General Director, Richard Karp.
This popular French opera will be conbut said, I dont deny it.
ducted by Guest Conducter Jose Serebrier.
The opening performance will begin at 
8:15 pm, on Thursday and the second 
scheduled performance will begin at the 
same time on Saturday, November 22.
Popular mezzo-soprano Mignon Dunn, 
Metropolitan Opera star, will be featured 
in the role of Carmen. She has sung 
practically every major mezzo role at the 
Met and her talents are exceptionally well 
suited for the bewitching Carmen.
According to the response of Pittsburgh 
Opera audiences, Carmen is one of the 
most popular French operas written in the 
late 19th century. This production is no 
exception because only a limited number 
of tickets remain on sale at the Heinz Hall 
Box Office and the Pittsburgh Opera Of
fice.
In Bainbridge, Georgia, a grandmother 
who once was a county Woman of the
Year has been convicted of voluntary 
manslaughter in the shooting death of her 
61-year-dd husbands girlfriend as the two 
left a dance floor.
Mrs. Eula Birdsong, 57-year-old 
mother of eight children, could be senten
ced to from one to 20 years in prison.
Birdsong, a prominent local farmer, 
had admitted under oath that he dated 
Mrs. Dorothy McDaniel frequently over 
the past two years and had received gifts 
from her, such as a quilt, afghan and 
pillow..
Mrs. Birdsong said she didnt 
remember shooting the other woman
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
^ir Speedy
IIMSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West. Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS  RESUMES  CATALOGS  POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS  BUSINESS CARDS  FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS  BOOKLETS  SCHEDULES
NEW ARRIVALS IN THE BOOKSTORE !
STEFAN LORANT: PITTSBURGH. STORY OF AN AMERICAN 
CITY
SUSAN BROWNMILLER: AGAINST OUR WILL 
NORMAN ROCKWELL'S: AMERICANA ABC 
JULIA CHILD: FROM JULIA CHILD'S KITCHEN 
LEO ROSTEN: THE LOOK BOOK
JUST PUBLISHED IN PAPER
BUGLIOSI: HELTER SKELTER 
THOMAS TRYON: LADY 
JAMES MICHENER: CENTENNIAL 
WILLIAM GADDIS: J.R.
MIDGE MACKENZIE: SHOULDER TO SHOULDER 
STAN LEE: SON OR ORIGINS OF MARVEL COMICS 
GARY TRUDEAU: THE DUNESBURY CHRONICLES
For college students preparing for careers 
in the visual and performing arts
Parson/New School 
Arts Apprenticeships
 UriHI Your pprtunity to earn
Sta Win 12 credits while gaining 
practical work experience as an apprentice to a distin
guished New York professional
Apprenticeships are available in a variety of areas
PAINTING 
SCULPTURE 
PRINTMAKING 
COMMERCIAL DESIGN 
PHOTOGRAPHY 
VIDEO 
ANIMATION
CINEMA 
MUSEUM 
& GALLERY WORK 
ART EDUCATION 
THEATER 
DANCE 
MUSIC
I Discover, up front, how successful professionals function 
in the most competitive and provocative city in the world
I Venture beyond the classroom environment to preview 
your field by actually working in a demanding professional 
environment
| Enjoy a semester in New York, the arts and communica
tions capital of the world, offering museums galleries, 
cinema, theaters
 Audit, free, any two of the more than 1.000 courses offered 
by Parsons and The New Schoolwhose faculties include 
an impressive list of New York s leading professionals
Tuition $1250 00 (equivalent to out-of-state fees at
most state universities)
. For more information, mail the coupon below
A or call collect (212) 741-8976/VwWwrr
Parsons/New School Apprenticeship Programs in New York
PARSONS SCHOOL OF DESIGN 66 Fifth Avenue New York NY 10011
Please send me more information about the Parsons/New 
School Apprenticeships Programs in New York
Name.
Address.
City-State ZipI
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-November 18,1975
//Godspell": Sans Divine Inspiration
by Carol Green
When a show is co-directed and 
staged by two people who also happen to 
be the producers of the show and, (by 
some odd twist of fate), also included in 
the cast, be ready for a rather out-of-theordinary evening of entertainment.
Godspell was staged by Camelot Produc
tions on the theory that if one director is 
good, two are better. Actually, I think the 
reason for two directors is to toss the 
blame back and forth. Never, in my life, 
have I ever seen a show so thoroughly 
over-directed and under-directed in all 
the wrong spots. I guess if you have two 
directors, however, the task is easier; two 
heads being able to louse up something 
better than one.
But, let us start with the beginning of 
the show. For those of you lucky enough 
to have seen a professional company of 
Godspell, you might remember that there 
is a prologue song called Tower of Babble 
The number with its eight melodies and 
parts going against each other does get 
difficult at times. Difficult, but for a cast 
of ten, more than half of whom claimed 
to have studied music and voice, this 
number should not be impossible. A lot 
of amateur productions of Godspell 
skip this number. One, because it is tech
nically taxing; two, because it is not in the 
movie or the record, anyway and the 
director usually figures it wont be missed, 
and three, because some dismiss it as un
necessary, a claim which 1 disagree with  
the show needs a prologue!
At first, I thought the number would be 
skipped. What a naive child I was. Would 
you believe the directors had the cast 
speak it? Speak it? The point of the song 
(for those who are still wondering) which is 
to show how man had philosophized the 
beauty of the world away, was unintelli
gible and entirely lost. Instead of murder
ing it so completely, I ended up wishing 
they had just forgotten about it.
The next number was Prepare Ye 
in which I was pleasantly surprised by the 
band  four part, piano, guitar, bass and 
drums. The band was extremely good 
and carried the show many times. This 
was also the first time the company sang 
all together  as a group, vocally they
shot by so fast and enunciation was poor.
Our next actor Bil Castellino might 
have been good with better direction, but 
I guess Ill never know. Many of his lines 
were lost in the delivery as he rushed them 
and he didnt seem to enjoy his role as 
Jesus much. This could partially be because 
of the high tenor range of the part, which 
he wasnt at all comfortable with.
The parables done in the show, except
were more than sufficient. I dont think 
that the audience, in the first three or four 
rows appreciated being involuntarily bap
tized by Lee Gantt, who played the Johnthe Baptist/Judas role.
Many of the lines delivered during the 
first part were delivered a lot more serious
ly than they should have been. Of course, 
half the time I couldnt tell  the lines
for one which used a game-show parody, 
were done almost word-for-word from the 
script, which can be the death of Godspell. 
In doing the show, liberties are meant to 
be taken with the script. But, you have to 
keep some original elements to make 
Godspell work. If you dont the parables 
go over like lead balloons.
The songs also can go over like lead
balloons, especially when sung flat. An 
example was their rendition of Day by 
Day as done by Mary Lee Casey. The song 
was under pitch and she didnt catch up 
until the last four bars.
Turn Back 0 Man was a waste of time 
because Nan Sumner (remember? also 
director, producer . . .) didnt vamp at 
all during the number. If the beat of the 
music hadnt told me, I never would have 
guessed it was a Mae West-type number. 
The song was also too low for her vocal 
range.
There were times when the directors 
climaxed an entire sequence instead of 
letting it build gradually. This was true 
for Alas For You, which got just plain 
confusing with the blocking and choreo
graphy.
Two numbers which I did enjoy were 
Oh Bless the Lord My Soul and By 
My Side, both of which were done by 
Joan Leavy. A freshman at Duquesne 
University, Joan is an accomplished musi
cal talent, and the staging of both numbers 
were refreshing and showed some thought.
By the time we were getting to the end 
with We Beseech Thee, the choreogra
phy, which almost always utilized straight 
lines, outstreached arms, and high kicks, 
was getting monotonous.
The costumes were not distinctive 
enough to tell one actor from another, 
especially the women. Even though the 
costumes seem ragtag at first, they should 
have some composition.
The lighting revealed a lack of the 
lighting designers imagination. This severely 
lessened the dramatic element of the 
finale, which can be artfully accented with 
the proper lighting.
If Camelot Productions is going to 
charge $4.00 per seat for a show, they 
really should have enough experience by 
now to do better quality work.
A NEW BEGINNING
CREATIVE AWARENESS 
ts now accepting members 
throughout the US to a 
further explore the a 
'powers of the mind'
MEMBERSHIP
INCLUDES:
 Introductory . 
Cassette Tape
 A U S Directory 
of Members
Look no further around 
you for answers. Look 
k within yourself; with 
^ in your mind. YOU 
^ posess the powert
to control 
your life*
 Three(3) Workshop Seminars 
yearly with Special Membership rates
MONTHLY TAPES OFFERED ON SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP ON SUCH TOPICS 
WHICH INCLUDE:
Creative and Positive Thinking In Depth Concentration 
Astro Projection The 7 Planes New Spaces 
Eastern and Western Philosophy
INTRODUCTORY OFFER/MEMBERSHIP NOW ONLY $10
I As a member I understand you will mail me 
each month an information card on next 
I months tape. If I do not want that selection, 
I mark the appropriate box and mail the card 
back. I will only receive the selections that 
interest me and I have prepaid for. I under
stand the card must be mailed back within 
10 days.
CHECK HERE IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO
NAME
ADDRESS
CITYSTATE
ZIPPHONE
OCCUPATION
COLLEGE
I
I 
I
I >ums Mail CREATIVI AWARENESS WC
1 CHECK HERE IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO ^___M
I BE LISTEO IN THE 0IRECT0RY ?  ^ Tad 89119
P A
P,nts ^Ve oftO1(1 PeNl'ce'
In color from 
Saliva Films
Midnight Shows Only Friday & 
Saturday 21 & 22
New Leona Theater Homestead
-I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 18, 1975Page 11
>1
NATIONA
SUNDAY NOVEMBER 23 $1.00withGMU ID
BALLROOM SPONSORED BY A.B. $2.00without
t ickets on sale at the info desk

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975sports
FIVE GOALS IN FIRST PERIOD WINS GAME
By Mary K. Groupe
Freshman goalie Don Jacobson stopped 
57 shots and Matt Goldsmith racked up 
two goals and an assist as the Tartan icers 
held off the Gannon Knights, 6-5, in Erie 
last Friday.
Smarting from last weeks defeat, the 
Tartans exploded in the first period to 
score five times. Matt opened the scoring 
on a rebound shot from Bill Miller, on 
what was technically a power play (the 
fifth CMU man got onto the ice Sfeconds 
before the goal). Two minutes later, Jack 
Arturo passed from the corner to Mike 
Gallaway, who broke away for the second 
Tartan goal.
Next came a rash of penalties and goals. 
Bill Miller went into the penalty box for a 
two-minute minor; Gannon scored within 
ten seconds, cutting the lead to 2-1. But 
that same play sent a Gannon skater to the 
penalty box. This time, the Tartans scored 
within seconds: Matt circled behind the 
Gannon net and put in a backhand shot. 
Mad Dog Goldsmith, coming on strong 
now, set up the next goal (the fourth for 
CMU). Matt knocked the puck out to 
defenseman Steve Fuchs, who dropped a 
shot from the right point, through a maze 
of players, and into the right corner of the 
goal. This was Steves first goal of his col
lege career. Seconds before the end of the 
period, Larry Stuever broke out of his de
fensive end and rushed the length of the ice 
to put CMU on top, 5-1. The first period 
took nearly an hour to play.
Jack Arturo tipped in the winning goal 
early in the, second period, on a shot from 
the point by Bill Miller. Then the Tartans 
slacked off and the quality play degener
ated considerably. The rest of the period 
was characterized by penalties that were 
called and penalties that should have been 
called -- the referees showed little control 
and CMU, at least, took a beating. Such 
unlikely bullies as Mike Gallaway and 
Larry Stuever received two penalties each; 
they, and several other Tartans, were bat
tered badly. Within the last two minutes of 
that period, Gannpn scored twice.
So the third period opened with a 6-3 
score and with Gannon having the momen
tum. Although CMU seemed to have lost 
their offensive strength back in the second 
period, they played an effective defense 
for most of the third. During one face-off 
in the CMU end, a Tartan defenseman 
blocked a shot and sent the puck flying up 
to the ceiling, where it lodged itself secure
ly on an I-beam. Dave Cornelius received a 
misconduct about halfway through the 
third period for retaliating when a Gannon 
player grabbed at him from the bench. And
P1ATIGNUM ITALIC SET
Contains a fountain pen, five 
Otalic niSs, and instruction 
manual affforonfy $5.00...
At art matcriaiSr'jjen sdops, 
cotfeye took. stores... or send 
cdeci to (Pentafic Corp., /32 
West 22 st.,N.y,N.y toon 
Add 50 cents for fiandfincj.
New Store Hour? 
at the Semple 
Street Food Co-op
12-8 p.m. Mon. - Fri. 
10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sat.
Corner of Semple & Ward Streets 
in Oakland 
687-1227
Don Jacobson (33), grabs the puck as Steve
about fifteen minutes into the period, Gan
nons Tim Wynne scored on a power play, 
earning a hat trick for himself and nar
rowing the score to 6-4.
From the Tartan point of view, it would 
have been better had the game ended there. 
During the last three minutes, Gannon 
scored again, making it 6-5, and then they 
pulled their goalie. There were at least 
two face-offs in the Tartan end during the 
last minute. Don Jacobson and the Tartans 
did a fine job of holding back the six Gan
non offensive players, and came off with 
the victory.
Gannon outshot CMU by a considerable 
margin, particularly in the second and third 
periods; they took the initiative, too, in 
most of the rough play, though it wasnt 
always called that way. Team captain Mike 
Gallaway commented, We let ourselves 
lie back on our first period lead an relied 
on Don, who played a great game in goal.
Fucks (3), clears out in front of the net
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
But the Tartans brilliant first period play 
and their tenacity through those long and 
bruising periods, pulled it off. Gannons 
Tim Wynne and CMUs Matt Goldsmith 
received most valuable player plaques. 
Matt generously handed his over to the de
serving goalie, Don Jacobson, in the locker 
room after the game.
TARTANS ICE DUQUESNE 5-3
The Tartans hit the ice on Sunday 
against Duquesne. In the beginning warm 
ups, CMU looked ragged but as the game 
proceeded it was apparent that their talents 
far exceeded those of the Dukes. The 
first period was scoreless.
In the second period CMU had 20 
shots on goal in comparison to Duquesnes 
five. The Tartans scored four goals in 
this period while the Dukes had one.
In the third period CMU was more
evenly matched by Duquesne. The shots 
on goal were respectively 11-9, with CMU 
scoring one and Duquesne scoring two.
This win leaves the Tartans with a 
3-1 record so far this season. Their next 
game is against Pitt on Dec. 7 at 1:00 
at the Civic Arena.
HARPERFISCH TIE
by Mike Pochan
The IM All-Star football balloting re
sults were released last Thursday, with 
Pika and Beta gaining most of the top 
honors. Pika was runnerup with five play
ers on the first and second teams while 
Beta, IM football champions, had six play
ers.
Jay Harper, quarterback for Pika, and ,1, 
John Fischer, quarterback for Beta, tie<3 
for most valuable player honors. Fischer 
was also voted as the number one quarter
back with Harper finishing second.
RESULTS:
1st team center-John Lankford (Beta) 
2nd team center--Ricb Bamburak 
(Dolphins)
1st team blocking backs--Emmett Reed 
(Pika) and Ralph Domenick (Dolphins) 
2nd team blocking backs-Bruce Whiting 
(All-Stars) and Yates (Beta)
1st team linebackers-Dave Cacciamani 
(Beta) and Lutholtz (Dolphins)
2nd team linebackers-Roughan (Pika) 
and Patterson (Spirit)
1st team ends-Bruce Bickar (Beta) and 
A1 Koblin (All-Stars) |
2nd team end-Knell (Dolphins)
1st team rushers-Pyzdrowski (All-Stars) 
and Rupnik (Dolphins)
2nd team rushers-Puder (Pika) and 
Messersmith (SAE)
1st team defensive back-Mark Vanderic 
(Pika)
2nd team defensive backs--Bob 
Schulman (Beta) and Schott (Dolphins)
UNDERGRADUATES and GRADUATES:
Buy your gifts and prescriptions at
i^rSped^y S^dm^cy
683-2033
4701 - 5th Avenue Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
10% OFF all prescriptions and health and beauty aids.
Just show us your I.D. card first.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
CHANUKAH PARTY
Saturday November 22 9 p.m. 
Hillel Lounge 315 S. Bellefield
3rd Floor
Cost for food: $ 1.00
LATKES
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS HEINZ CHAPEL) 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975Page 13
lover to an
Hfc 5T*0 Bev/E*Y COMPANY, DiffoiT, MICHIGAN
B-BALL HAS TALLEST SQUAD IN YEARS
A basketball coach beginning his college 
career at Carnegie-Mellon University might 
be well advised to live out of a suitcase for 
awhile.
But Dave Maloney, who took the CMU 
job in September, has just bought a house.
At first glance, Daves decision to move 
his family into a new home in a Pittsburgh 
guburb might seem sound.
Almost everyone is back from last 
years team, Maloney says, including the 
teams top two scorers, one of them a 
6-9, 210 pound all-league center.
In addition, the Tartans have one of 
their tallest squads in years, with the front 
court averaging 6-6 and the back court 
around 6 feet.
_ But theyre coming back from a team 
which went 4-16 last year, Maloney 
notes, and our only senior player was on 
squads which won only eight games and 
lost 56 in three seasons.
In fact, CMU has not had a winning 
basketball season since 1966-67 and only 
three coaches in Tartan cage history have 
finished on the winning side of the ledger.
A coach with less confidence and deter^mination might still be living in a motel 
and visiting his family on weekends, but 
after taking a brief survey of the jobs 
assets and liabilities, Dave sold his home in 
Shamokin and purchased one here.
He has good reason to be confident, 
however, considering his previous coaching 
record. Dave compiled a 190-96 record 
during 11 seasons at Our Lady of Lourdes 
*High School in Shamokin, including 
Pennsylvania Catholic Interscholastic Ath
letic Association Class A Eastern titles in 
19^7 and 1968.
Lourdes took the PCIAA Class B 
Eastern crown in 1965, the Harrisburg 
Diocese Class B title in 1970 and the
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
There IS a  difference!!! i
j PREPARE FOR? MCATOver 35 years 
of experience and success
Small classes
Voluminous nome 
study materials
: DAT: LSAT ! GRE : ATGSB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX : ECFMG : NAT! MED BOS:
Courses that are constantly updated * 

Make-ups for missed lons *

Local Classes
: 681-9735 
: KflPUIN
IT* 1 &
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
C hanh gaeOgOhfHr nt&SMU:MIsI IMiS&
mass's
Dave Maloney (right). Head Basketball Coach, watching the team during a workout.
Photo by Paul Williams
Central Catholic League title in 1967,1968 
and 1972.
In 1962, Dave was chosen All-Catholic 
All American while leading Mt. St. Marys 
College of Maryland to the NCAA College 
Division Eastern and National titles.
That winning tradition, he believes will 
rub off at CMU.
I have no doubt that well be repre
sentative and respectable this season and 
thats my main goal now, said Maloney, 
who opened pre-season practice last Sat
urday. Also the enthusiam generated by 
our football team should carry over into 
basketball.
The Tartans will have just 25 practices 
to assimilate a new offense and a new 
defense before their exhibition opener 
Dec. 1 with St. Vincents College.
How well we do depends on how 
quickly they adjust to the new system.
There is raw talent here, but the players are 
not as fundamentally sound as they should 
be this far in their careers.
One of CMUS standouts this year is 
bound to be last years Tartan MVP, 6-9 
center Paul Hamerly of Penn Hills, an AllPresidents Athletic Conference choice as a 
sophomore last season when he averaged 
15.3 points and 11.3 rebounds per game. 
His scoring mark was good for third place 
in the PAC.
Hamerly should definitely establish a 
few new school records before he is 
through, Maloney said.
Hamerly will get help from 6-1, 170 
pound Dave Wukich of Turtle Creek, who 
averaged 11.3 points per game as a fresh
man. He finished last season as the tenth 
leading scorer in the conference as well as 
being the top freshman scorer.
Were not loaded though the fresh
man coach -Said, and we lost a few players 
who could have helped. Not returning to 
the team this season are Greg Chambers, 
Rick Klein, Gary Bonn, Chuck DAngelo, 
Dan Jason, and Harry Hotimsky.
Maloney hopes to fill fche void with 
transfers Marty Costa, Ralph DeaBrunzzo 
and Larry DiCicco.
Costa, 6-7, who sat out last season 
after leaving Penn State, may be the strong
est and most agressive man on the team. 
DeaBrunzzo spent the past two seasons at 
Penn State-New Kensington and led his 
team to the Penn State branch champion
ship. DiCicco, a transfer from Allegheny 
County Community College, is described as 
a complete player by Maloney.
All three can drive to the basketball, 
a quality the Tartans have lacked in the 
past.
Shot selection is the key to good 
shooting percentage, Maloney says. Last 
year the team shot a very poor .37 per cent 
from the floor. Better selection should in
crease that percentage because you get the 
chance to take second shots when you take 
a good first shot/
The Tartans will have their first test 
tomorrow when they scrimmage Point 
Park College at 4:15 in Skibo Gym. This 
Saturday they will travel to Grove City for 
a scrimmage.ATO DEFEATS ALL-STARS
By Mike Pochan
The battle for possession of first place 
in the majoi league ended, when ATO 
toppled previously unbeaten Coaches AllStars 4-1. ATO (5-0) are defending inter
mediate soccer league champions while the 
All-Stars (5-1) are defending major league 
continued on page fifteen
1)23 MLTOXfcJC IftOAjD 
PiMbvtsk. Ka 15217
Branchas iit*U|0< U S. C1I1M
a lovin
glassful

---------------------------------------------------

p I  - I
Davina Davies setting the ball to Judy Parker in a game against CSC on Friday.
CMU won 15-7 15-11. * Photo by Paul WilliamsWOMEN'S RECORD 7-3
by Oscar Grouch
Playing six games this week, CMUs 
Womens Varsity Volleyball team boosted 
their record to 7-3. Geneva College and 
California State College traveled to CMU 
Friday evening for a tri-meet. Playing CSC 
first, CMU sent them home losers, 15-7, 
15-11. CSC gave CMU a good game, but 
CMU held together exceptionally well 
under pressure. CMU then faced Geneva, 
who had a lot of height and experience. In 
the first game against Geneva, CMU got off 
to a good start with a 6-0 lead. Geneva 
never recovered, and CMU won 15-7. It 
seemed to be all c ;er in the second game 
when Geneva was ahead 14-3, but CMU 
fought back to hold off Genevas winning 
point until 13-14, where Geneva finally 
took a point and won. Geneva played 
better and better and CMUs moral
slumped. As a direct result of this, Geneva 
won the third game 15-9. In a tri-meet 
Tuesday, CMU competed against W&J and 
Thiel. During the first game against W&J, 
CMU fell behind after a shaky start, and 
W&J lead 14-8. However, CMU didnt give 
up but began to use their good ball control 
for several pass-set-spike plays. W&J could 
not stand up to CMUs sudden burst of 
spirit, and CMU took eight straight points 
to win the game 16-14. The second game 
came easily to CMU as they kept up their 
serving and spiking. In the second half of 
the tri-meet, CMU ran up against Thiel 
College who brought a well seasoned team. 
Falling behind early in the first game, 
CMU couldnt seem to make anything 
work. Thiel played a strong offensive game 
whereas CMU sent over few direct of
fensive hits. Time was running out and
rFREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811
I
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
COME FOR COFFEE 
with
EMANUEL SHIMONI
IgKmEO Consul-General of Israel
Wednesday November 19 4-5:30 p.m. 
Hillel Lounge
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteeis 
are needed for Bioavailability Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50- 
$500, depending upon time requirements of the *udy.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room fred Webster Hall, 4415 Htth Avenue 662-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exam - 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
(Do not eat breakfast)
CMU struggled to catch up. The score was 
tied up at 12-12 after a long hard fight by 
CMU when time ran out. In such a case, 
play continues until one team wins by two 
points. Unhappily for CMU, Thiel had the 
serve, and quickly took two points before 
CMU could get together. Thiel won the sec
ond game as CMU tried but could not find 
their usual spirit.
CMU took two victories from Seton 
Hill College, one on the home court 15-9, 
15-2, and one at Seton Hill, 15-11, 154. 
The team played the second game at Seton 
Hill this past weekend. The quality of play 
was not very indicative of the ability of the 
team. The only redeeming characteristics 
were Ingrid Goedickes. spikes, Judy 
Parkers serves and Crystal Hoffmans 
bump passes.
CMU will be facing the biggest 
opponent of the season on Tuesday when 
they play IUP at Indiana. Indiana has 
consistently beaten CMU in the past, but 
their team is weaker this year than in 
previous years.
JOT THIS DOWN
WATER POLO  The final standings are ^ 
1) Swamp Men, 2) Dolphins, and 3) Pi 
Kappa Fighting Turtles.
SQUASH  Mike Miller of Theta Xi is 
commissioner. Playoffs will be held this 
week (17-20).
3 PERSON VOLLEYBALL - Mike Pochan 
of SAE is this years commissioner. Games 
start Wednesday November 19. Pick up 
schedules in IM office.
CHESS - Zugzwang is leading in the chess 
tournament.
6 PERSON VOLLEYBALL - Finals 
begin Monday, November 17. Major league 
teams that will be competing are: Coaches 
All-Stars, Feva, SAE-A and GSIA-Major. 
The intermediate league finals will be played Tuesday at 7 pm. The Magilldos, Pi 
Kappa Alpha and GSIA-A will be compet
ing.
GO HOME
Flying Home for 
Thanksgiving
Let A PhiO start you on 
your way with their shut
tle bus, to the Greater Pit
tsburgh International Air
port. The bus will run 
Nov. 26, leaving Morewood at 10:45, 1:15 and 
3:45, and Donner Hall 16 
min. later. Tickets will be 
sold for 1.75 at these 
locations.
More wood Main Desk Skibo Travel Center Skibo Info. Desk Hammerschlag B-104

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 18, 1975-Page 15
CMU PLAYERS ON THE 1975 ALL-PAC FOOTBALL TEAM
Dick West made the first 
team's offense as a run
ning back.
Mike Haupt was elected 
for the first team's de
fense. He plays the de
fensive back position.
Keith Baker made the first 
team's defense as a de
fensive end.
Bob Hantz was selected for the AII-PAC's second team's defense as a defensive 
line player. Mark Uram received an honorable mention for his performance as 
a linebacker and a guard. The players are elected by the coaches of the teams 
in the PAC's.
Enseignement des systmes logiques 
 laide de blocs logiques modulaires : les  logidules
Appareil Auger
BUGGY I RIFLEMEN
NOW 4-4
By L.S.D.C.
Sunday morning saw Sweepstakes fourth 
fall freeroll of the current buggy season. 
The weather was perfect again although the 
temperature was much colder than the 
three previous freerolls. The practice, un
der the direction of Joan Bothwell, the 
Sweepstakes Chairperson, ran smoothly 
but was marred by two accidents. One of 
PKTs buggies lost some of its tires while 
going around the turn at the bottom of the 
hill. As the buggy spun out, rubber went 
flying in all directions, but the driver was 
not injured in any way.
The S.D.C. buggy was not as fortunate. 
Their buggy, with Cathy Schollaert, one of 
their three new drivers navigating, hit the 
curb on the right hand side of the street 
just over the top of hill two. There was no 
mechanical failure in the buggy and the ac
cident was caused solely by driver error 
and inexperience. Ms. Schollaert didnt 
appear to be hurt seriously. The only 
apparent injury was a small scratch on her 
right hand but as a precautionary measure 
she was taken to the hospital for an exami
nation.
Sundays freeroll again demonstrated 
the apathy that seems to be rampant in 
Sweepstakes this year. Again only seven of 
the fourteen organizations were present. It 
seems that very few organizations are really 
interested in Sweepstakes this year. Only 
PKA and PKT appear to be genuinely inte
rested this year and their freeroll times re
flect this. PKA was even running full 
course Sunday morning.
The reason for this apparent lack of en
thusiasm is a mystery to this writer. Orga
nizations that arent taking full advantage 
of the fall freerolls may be in for a rude 
awakening in the spring. There are only 
five freerolls scheduled for the spring and it 
is very possible that three or even four of 
these could be cancelled due to inclement 
weather.
by Mark Smith
The rifle team split its three-way meet 
last week to maintain an even record of 
4-4. Pitts 1277 proved too much for CMU, 
weakened by the absence of two of the 
teamsreliable shooters. Fortunately 
though, the teams 1239 did beat the sec
ond opponet, W&J, who only shot 1203.
The top five scorers for CMU were Mark 
Smith, Steve Strom, Karen Azinger, Mike 
Brosius, and Ron Pontius. For the first 
time this year two individual scorers drop
ped below 240.
Next weeks mat^h will be against 
Duquesne. Although their average is below 
CMUs, the Tartans cant expect to win 
unless they are at full strength.
IM SOCCER
continued from page thirteen 
champions.
Coaches All-Stars, fielding former col
lege players A1 Young, Murray Leete, 
A1 Koblin and Soccer Coach Wayne 
Nickerson, could not cope with the hustle 
and stamina displayed by the ATOs (most 
of whom are from CMUs Varsity Football 
team).
The. game was scoreless fpr two and a 
half periods as the skills of the All-Stars 
offset the physical play of ATO. Coaches 
A1 Koblin struck first with an angle shot 
that zipped past ATO goalie, Matt Pfley. 
ATO bounced right back with Bill Miller 
getting a shot past goalie Bob Dax.
the All-Stars began to look tired as 
ATOs three man front line of Kane, 
Gatti, and Lapman outran the Stars 
defense and added another goal.
The remainder of the fourth period was 
disastrous for the All-Stars as their sagging 
defense and tiring offense saw Bill Miller 
and Tom McMeekin add two more goals 
to the ATO victory.
.... Bien entendu, tous les frais d'inscrip
tion et de sjour a l'EPFL seront  notre 
charge. Aussi, dans l'espoir d'une response 
favorable, veuillez agrer, Mademoiselle 
Brigitte Bardot, nos respectueuses 
salutations.
Carnegie-Mellon University announces an undergraduate exchange program with Ecole 
Polytechnique Fedrale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland for selected students in engineering 
and applied science. This program represents the first international exchange established 
between colleges of engineering in the United States on a formal and reciprocal basis. No 
additional expenses are anticipated. L'EPFL is exquisitely situated on the shores of Lake 
Geneva, surrounded by the Alps and Jura mountains, in the french-speaking region of 
Switzerland. Academic departments within EPFL closly resemble those within CIT, where 
emphasis is on engineering and applied science rather than on pure science characteristic 
of many classical european universities. The program offers exceptional educational and 
cultural rewards to selected undergraduate students as well as exciting employment opportuni
ties following graduation. For further information contact Professor C.L. Bauer, Science 
Hall 4323 in DPrson or telephone 621-2600, extension 358.
Practice What You've 
Learned
ALL INTERESTED ART AND DESIGN STUDENTS ARE INVITED 
TO ATTEND A MEETING FOR POTENTIAL DESIGNERS.
Wednesday, Nov. 19 at 4:30 
Skibo, Room 10
Please bring samples of your work 
For more information
universitygraphics*
621-2600 X626
SR50A
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
$84.50
SR51A $134.50
OUR EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 
PLENTY IN STOCK  NO TRADE-IN REQUIRED
only at THE OFFICE MACHINE
(formerly Citron & Zecca)
2109 Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill421-0619

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-November 18,1975THE GREAT BOOKSTORE 
CALCULATORTOP PRIZE
HP 65  
$795 VALUE
SECOND PRIZE
CHOICE OF HP 21, 22, 25
THIRD PRIZE
CHOICE OF TWO REMAINING CALCULATORS
FOURTH PRIZE
REMAINING CALCULATOR
SCORE 100 POINTS AND WIN!
1. IDENTIFY THESE QUOTES (AUTHOR & TITLE OF BOOKS):
1. "It moved fast, tail thrusting vigorously, mouth opening and closing as if gasping for breath."
2. "Bed is the right place to play all the games you have ever wanted to play."
3. The old dormitories for men on the south side of Margaret Morrison St., erected
1915-1918, though extensively renovated within, remained the target of criticism 
because of their bleak exterior."
4. "I've decided today's Chautauqua will begin to explore Phaedrus' world."
5. "Virginia, why am I going to law school? What if it doesn't work out?"
2. IDENTIFY THE BOOKS FROM WHICH THESE ILLUSTRATIONS ARE TAKEN:
/
ALL QUOTATIONS & ILLUSTRATIONS ARE FROM BOOKS CURRENTLY ON SALE IN THE BOOKSTORE
3. GUESS HOW MANY PIECES OF CANDY ARE IN THE GLOBE ON DISPLAY IN THE 
BOOKSTORE. GUESSES OVER THE ACTUAL NUMBER ARE DISQUALIFIED.
ENTRY BLANK - DEPOSIT IN BOOKSTORE
CONSOLATION PRIZE  
ALL THE CANDY IN THE GLOBE
- Winner must be a member of C-MU community and
and have a CMU ID.
 Bookstore staff members are not eligible.
- Winner will be determined by:
Quote identification - 30 points 
Illustration Identification - 30 points 
Candy Guess - 40 points 
Contest Ends 12/5/75
Winners will be posted 12/10/75 in Bookstore. 
Prizes will be awarded 1:30 12/11/75 in Bookstore 
Hand drawn facsimilies or entry form permitted. 
Ties will be broken by a drawing
- Consolation prize awarded by random drawing.
QUOTES (1) 
-6 points (2) 
Each) (3)
(4)
(5)
PICTURES (1) 
(6 Points (2) 
Each) (3)
(4)
(5)
CANDY ___
(40 points) 
NAME_______
ADDRESS 
DEPT____
CLASS OF
C-MU BOOKSTORE CALCULATOR GIVEWAY
