Carnegie Tech Tartan
Volume 64  Number 7Wednesday, October 28,1964
Mens Dorm Council Elects
Pollock, Pres; Ritchie, VP
Men's Dorm Council at 
their meeting of Oct. 20, 1964 
elected A1 Pollock as Presi
dent. Dave Ritchie was elect
ed Vice President and Tom 
Gray, Corresponding Secre
tary. Other officers include 
Harvey Rosenblun, Treasurer, 
elected last May; Bob Lewis, 
Court of Appeals Representative; 
and Bob Keating, property cus
todian. Nominees for the position 
of Recording Secretary are Den
nis Rosenfeld and John Brodine.
As President, A1 Pollock will 
preside over the regular meeting 
of Mens Dorm Council and act as 
Chief Justice on all disciplinary 
cases brought before Dorm Court. 
A1 is a Senior in Graphic Arts 
Management and was the Presi
dent of Welch Hall. Presently, he 
is also a member of Executive 
Council as representative of mis
cellaneous activities, a past presi
dent of Alpha Phi Omega, a mem
ber of Sigma Nu, Pi Delta Epsilon 
and Student Congress. A1 was a 
member of the Tartan staff for 
three years and served as Man
aging Editor last year. In past 
years he has been active on Dorm 
Council, Scotch n Soda, YMCA, 
and Tarquins. A1 hopes that this 
years Mens Dorm Council will 
improve dormitory living condi
tions by planning good social and
I. M. programs, maintaining ade
quate study conditions and work
ing with other student groups for 
mutual benefit.
Dave Ritchie as Vice President 
wili be chairman of the Vice 
Presidents Council which serves 
as the social committee of Mens 
Dorm council. Dave is a junior
A1 Pollock
Technical 
Sales Begin
The October issue of the 
Carnegie Technical will be on 
sale this week.
Graphically, this years 
Technical is a new magazine. 
The photo off-set printing 
process permits clearer pic
torial coverage.
In the October issue, Dave 
H e rvd e r s o n, Architecture 67, 
combines illustrations and text to 
present a study of the campus 
as it was originally planned in 
the early 1900s.
Bert Silverman, Chemistry 65, 
writes Chemically Induced Can
cer, summarizing some recent 
developments in cancer research. 
Mr. Silvermans article is sup
plemented with illustrations of 
chemical bondings described in 
the text and with a creative il
lustration by Candice T e p f e r , 
Painting 65.
Image and Idea by Linda 
Brown, English 64, compares the 
poetry of John Keats and John 
Donne. Susan Schwalb, Graphics 
65, and Ricki Hammerman, 
Painting 65 with an illustration 
to the article.
Bonnie Siegels Analysis of a 
Chinese Painting, explores the 
art and thought that produced a 
thirteenth century water color. 
The picture is reproduced to il
lustrate the article.
In a monthly feature column, 
Technical Musings, Lewis Car
rolls theory of logic, is developed.
The Carnegie Technical is pub
lished six times yearly. Subscrip
tions are $1.25; individual copies 
are $.25. Staff members will be 
selling the magazine on campus 
during the next two weeks.
in Physics and represents Scobell 
Hall. His other campus activities 
include A.I.P., Scotch n Soda 
lighting crew, Student Congress, 
and Explorers Club. Dave plans 
to improve the dorm social life by 
| having a very strong program, a 
i schedule of parties will soon be 
| published. Already, plans are 
underway for a party on Nov. 7.
Mens Dorm Council consists of 
j the 11 Presidents of the under| graduate mens dorms.
j They are: Dennis Rosenfeld, John 
| Brodine, Jack Sarver, Jim Kamm, 
Tom Gray, Stan Moskowitz, Bob 
Moorhead, Jan CTiervenak, Steve 
Jones, Dave Ritchie, and Mike 
j Malakoff.
j The Vice Presidents Council 
I has the following members: Clare 
| Mansperger, Tim Eaton, Bill Mal\ lonee, George Schnakenberg, Joel 
; Specter, Henry Patts, Bob Kazen! ski*. Joe Nirschl, Roy Weil, George 
Honcher, Dave Posner.
Fair less Series 
Discusses Man
The second annual series of 
the Benjamin F. Fairless Lec
tures will begin at 4:30 p.m. 
tomorrow, in the ballroom of 
Skibo. The other two lectures 
will also be held in the ball
room on November 5 and 12.
Mr. Theodore O. Yntema, vicepresident-chairman of the finance 
committee, Ford Motor Company, 
wil speak on the subject The En
richment of Man. The lectures 
will be devoted to an investigation 
of the topics of capitalism, major 
economic policy problems, and 
frontiers of education.
The lectures are open to all stu
dents.
Library Initiates 
New Book Policy
The Hunt Library instituted a 
new policy last week regarding 
reserve books. Students are per
mitted to take out as many as five 
books for one course after 9 p.m., 
although no more than one copy 
of each book may be borrowed. A 
student is allowed to reserve one 
book which must be taken out be
fore 9 p.m.
This new policy was establish
ed at a joint meeting of the li
brary committee of Student Con
gress and the library administra
tion. The change in rules is de
signed to reduce the number 
of books lying unused overnight 
when general demand for the 
books is low.
Richard Scaife 
Elected To Be 
Tech Trustee
by Carol S. Guber
Richard M. Scaife, Gover
nor of T. Mellon and Sons 
since 1958, has been elected to 
the Board of Trustees at Car
negie Tech.
Mr. Scaife attended Yale Uni! 
versify and the University of 
Pittsburgh. Prior to assuming his 
present position, he was coordi1 
nator at Gulf Oil Corporation.
He is a trustee of Waynesburg 
College, the Carnegie Institute, 
the Allegheny Foundation, the | 
Historical Society of Western 
Pennsylvania, and vice chairman ; 
of the board of trustees of the I 
Sarah Mellon Scaife Foundation. 
In addition, Mr. Scaife is a dii 
rector of the Mellon National | 
Bank and Trust Company, and 
the Greater Pittsburgh Capital 
Corporation.
Johnson Wins 
Campus Vote
President Lyndon Johnson and his running mate, Hubert 
Humphrey received 413 of the 632 votes cast in last Wednes
days mock presidential election, sponsored by the Election 
Committee of Student Congress.
Tartan Photo by Eric FeldmannSorority Round Robin
Dr. Warner Aids Committees, 
Hop es to Increase Endowment
by Cindy Etkin and Liz Seley
Dr. John Christian Warner has participated in and con
tributed to many important organizations in the United States.
During World War II he played a key role in the develop-| ment of the atomic bomb by di-*--------------------------------------
j recting and coordinating research J ^ _
! on the chemistry and metallurgy 1 (^11*111 Veil (jOIHIH 
; of plutonium at Los Alamos and j
j Oak Ridge as well as in several ; Kg I in
| university laboratories. Dr. WarlfJLdlll^d &
I ner is currently a member of the
i General Advisory Committee to The Spring Carnival ComI the Atomic Energy Commission, mittee is now taking applicaDr. Warner served the U. S. j tions for officers and commit; government as a member of the !
| Manhattan project from 1943-1945 
and is a member of the policy Ad
visory Board, Argonne National 
Laboratory. In 1958 as a tech
nical consultant to the U.S. dele
gation, he atended the Second 
United Nations International Con
ference on Peaceful Uses of Atom
ic Energy in Geneva, Switzerland.
Dr. Warner has recently been 
active as a consultant to the Ford 
Foundation studying educational 
problems in Southeast Asia.
President Warner is an active 
writer. He is co-author of two 
widely used chemistry texts and 
has written over fifty scientific 
and technical papers in physical 
and electro-chemistry.
He is a member of the National 
Academy of Sciences, past presi
dent of the American Chemical 
Society, and recipient of the gold 
medal of the American Institute 
of Chemists. Dr. Warner has also 
received eleven honorary degrees.
After leaving Carnegie Tech,
Dr. Warner to be consultant at 
foundations in the United States 
such as the Ford Foundation. In 
this work he will travel to coun
tries including Pakistan, India and 
the Phillipines.
I can assure you from the exj 
perience at Tech that if smart 
young students in professional ed
ucation are offered challenging, 
stimulating and substantial courses 
in the humanities and social sci
ences, they will accept them with 
undistinguished eagerness and in
terest.
As a result, they will be bet
ter men and women, able to make 
more valuable contributions in 
their fields.
Sorority Rush 
Opens Sunday
Sorority Rush will officially be
gin with an Open House on Sun
day, November 1, at 1:00. Inter
ested women will meet at the 
Skibo Ballroom where they will 
be divided into groups and taken 
to meet the sororities at different 
fraternity houses.
The deadline for registering for 
Sorority Rush is Thursday, Octo
ber 29. Women should 9ign the 
Rush list in Dean Milligans Of
fice in Administration Hall be
fore 4:30 p.m. on Thursday. In 
addition, a pink Sorority Infor
mation Card must be filled out 
and placed on file in the Dean's 
Office.The posit io n s are Vice ----------------------
Chairman, Treasurer, and Secre| rpi 
tary; and the committees include Greeks 1 o uive Sweepstakes, Midway, Publicity,
Printing, Queen Presentations,
Sorority Relays, Judges, Decora
tions, Manpower, Tickets, Talent 
Jamboree, Plank Jousting, Ele
phant Races, Faculty Eggtors, and 
Call Day.
All those interested should 
send a written application, 
through campus mail, to Richard 
Elkman at Tau Delta Phi by Wed
nesday, November 4. The com
mittee will be announced in the 
November 18 Tartan and the first 
meeting will be held on Thurs
day, 19.
Cohen Given 
Research Grant
Dr. Kalman J. Cohen, head 
of the department of econo
mics at Carnegie Tech, has 
been awarded the Robert Mor
ris Associates $1500 grant to 
do research.
The grant was made to support 
a project currently being inves
tigated by Dr. Cohen and Dr. 
Frank A. Singer of the Univer
sity of Massachusetts, which uses 
a computer to formalize bank 
credit analysis.
The award was made to Dr. 
Cohen as part of Robert Morris 
Associates 50th anniversary. RMA 
is an association of bank loan offi
cers and credit men. It includes 
1000 of the nations largest banks.
Masquerade
A masquerade ball will be 
held on Friday, November 13 
from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the 
Skibo ballroom by the Coun
cil of Fraternity Presidents 
and Panhel as part of Greek 
Week.
This will be the only event 
of the week open to the en
tire campus, including fresh
men. The only admission re
quirement is a costume.
The Bobby Comstock Band will 
provide dance music and the floor 
show will be presented by Gary 
U. S. Bonds.
CFP and Panhell will decorate 
the ballroom into a carnival set
ting. Free refreshments will be 
served. The Greeks will com
pete for trophies for the best cos
tumes based on originality and 
character presentation.
Dorm Sponsors 
Halloween Mixer
Womens Dorm Council will 
hold a Halloween Mixer in Morewood Recreation Room from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m., October 30. The 
mixer is open to all students.
This party is the first such ev
ent held at Morewood in the last 
several years. It is part of an 
expanding social program planned 
by the Dorm Council,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, October 28, 1964
Student Congress Lists
Members, Departments
To familiarize the student body with its representatives 
in Student Congress; the elected members of Congress and 
the departments, dormitories and groups they represent, are 
listed below. ?--------------------------------------
Architecture, Mike Allen and ; 
Mike Pollock: Biological Sciences, i
Ellen Hamil; Business and Social graduate study at colleges in Asia
Studies, Nanci Kaelin; Chemical and the Pacific area.
Engineering, Buck Buchanan and The Center for Cultural and
Marvin Cadwell: Chemistry, Jeep Technical Interchange between
Gel bard; Civil Engineering, RichEast and West Sives $9000 scholard Bostleman: Drama, June Go*hhich Prov;?e for lwentr-, . . _  A , !one months of all-expense-paidlub and Carol Arnowitz; Electrical study.
Engineering; Steve Palko; Sam  . .. , 1 For information, contact: Direc-Cupps, Dan Marsel, and Ed j t0r of Student Selection; Institute 
Schuler; Graphic Arts, Bill Burfor Student Interchange; Eastdett: Humanities, Martha HodgCenter; Honolulu, Hawaii,
son; Industrial Management, Steve 
Kessler; Home Economics. Ailene
Engineers Chosen 
For Tail Beta Pi
Tau Beta Pi, the national En
gineering Honorary, has elected 
new members.
From the senior class, the fol
lowing have been chosen: chem
istry  Michael Bender, Eric 
Evenich, Robert Lewis, Kenneth 
Ritchey and Duane Smith; chemi
cal engineering  Marvin Cad
well, Andrew Acken, Christopher 
Scholarships are available for j Knapp, Charles Lambert and JoGraduate Scholarships
96822.
seph Sandulli; electrical engineer
ing  Jerome Cross, Ronald 
Knepper Gerald Naditch, Luther 
Stephens, James Straw, and Nor
man Ziesse; mathematics  Jack 
Hershey and David Specht; me
chanical engineering  Gene 
Minner and James Singleton; 
physics  Joseph Depp and Al
lan Merchant. The following jun
iors have been elected: chemical 
engineering  Lawrence Dawson, 
Christopher Macosko, and Fredrich Stone.
Jobs Available
Summer jobs in Europe are 
available to students through the 
American Student Information 
Service in Luxembourg.
A booklet containing informa
tion of about 10,000 such jobs 
can be obtained for $2 from Dept. 
II, ASIS, 22 Ave de la Liberte, 
Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy 
of Luxembourg.
Costume Display
The Home Economics Club is 
sponsoring a display of 19th and 
20th century costumes October 28 
| at 5:30, MMCC 203.
With the assistance of Mrs. 
Robinson and Ann Driehorst, 
there will be a presentation of day 
time and evening clothes with all 
accessories. The eostumes worn by 
a member of the first graduating ) 
from Margaret Morrison class will 
be included.
Frank: Math, Tim MacMillan and 
Dave Specht; Mechanical En
gineering, Richard Hochauser and 
Jeff Kalin; Metalurgical Engineer
ing, Phil Vormelker; Music, Irene 
Scheuerle; Natural Sciences, Carol 
Teaman; Painting, Design and 
Sculpture: Frank Vigliotte, John 
Ward, and Betsy Bealke; Physics, 
Charles Siegal;
Commuters: Lorna Hershberger, 
Eric Erenrich, Dave Aronowitz. 
and Mark Labovitz; A Donner, 
John Brodine; 1 Donner, Jack 
Sarder, 2 Donner, Jim Kamn, 
Scobell, Dave Richie Boxx, DenGray, A Schlagg Bob Morehead, 
Henderson, Jan Schervenak, Mcgill. Steve Jones Welsh, A1 Pol
lock.
The representatives from the 
towers of Morewood Gardens have 
not yet been elected for this year.
The following are the chairmen 
of the twelve Student Congress 
c o m m i 11 ees: Richie Elkman,
Spring Carnival; Kieth Pierce, 
Homecoming; Marion Bauman, 
Constitution; Dick Elder, Fresh
man Orientation and Rules; Dick 
Londergan, Elections; Harvey 
Rosenblum, Finance; Buck Bu
chanan, Campus Chest; Elissa 
Parker. Tom Johnson, Union; Bob 
Fritz, Activities; Tim Hiss Publi
city; Mike Gross, General Campus;! 
Joe Bowman, Assembly.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
125 Bouquet St.
Near Tower Dorms 
Open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Daily
ARSENAL
THE GREAT RUSSIAN 
MASTERPIECE
 Also 
ZYENIGORA
PORTER HALL 
Film Arts Society 
Thurs. 4:30, 7:00, 9:30
t0FOR VM o^SHAOY
CARON
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD  MAYONNAISE
 RELISH  SAUERKRAUT
 ONION  CHILE
 PICKLE  KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS19-INCH SUBMARINE GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN SALAD & FRENCH FRIES FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
 TaraTtT nPhoP
621-7388 682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 15c 
WHOLE SHELL S2.00
----- FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS -----
(MINIMUM ORDER  S2.00)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 621-7388  682-8466
We allmake mistakes...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
Dont plague yourself with a page of typing sorrows. 
Flick away your errors easily on Corrasable. An ordi
nary pencil eraser does the trick. You need Corrasables 
special surface to produce unsmudged, unscarred, per
fect looking papers every time, the first time. Eatons 
Corrasable is available in light, 
medium, heavy weights an<
Onion Skin. In handy 100- 
sheet packets and 500-sheet 
ream boxes. Only Eaton 
makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper 
EATON PAPER CORPORATION :*E : PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Smothers
Brokers
i
IN CONCERT
Syria Mosque Sunday, Nov. 8
8:30 p.m.
Tickets: $2.50, $3.50, $4.50
All Seats Reserved
TICKETS NOW ON SALE 
AT ALL NATIONAL 
RECORD MARTS
MAIL ORDERS: TIM TORMEY ASSOCIATES, 
BOX 431, PGH. 30. ENCLOSE A SELFADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE.5
Ph. 481
inn
Pittsburgh's Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 I
iiMveelusive at l^oherld
1ii:3
: 3 : 5[9
:3
I <
*285
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
JOHN M. ROBERTS' SON
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
East Hills Shopping Center  731 Washington Rd., Mt. Lebanon
ii
jiniiiiiiHMimiiiiHimimiiiiiiiniiiiiiiuiitiniimiMmMHmmiiiiiiMUHiMiitttimmiHtf

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 28, 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page S
Smot ther ts Brt tkat orcsnd whnd. Havr a Cskr. 
Csca-Csla  Ito bhB, bsld taotr 
nrvrr tss owrrt, 
pmto zhnB hn prsplr... rrfrrokro brot.
things gObetter,!
^withCoke
Chaarge Acego aug nAauhotas hd Dug fhPgyfhrn fhmIncs vsi
QUAKEI STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANT 
Pittsburgh, PennsylrMi
4. Then how do you expect to go 
out into the world, support a 
wife, raise children, and be a 
two-car family?
I wish I knew.
c Natl Politics Shaws Heartbreak House
Gets Support Opens Drama Dept Season
by Cindy Morse
Supporters of Johnson and 
Goldwater have been active 
on Carnegie Techs campus 
f this semester.
John Yavorsky, a junior chemi
cal engineer, heads the Tech 
Youth for Goldwater-Miller. Tech 
Youth for Johnson-Humphrey is 
headed by two humanities majors, 
Cynthia Fox and Paula Schwartz.
These groups have participated 
in pre-election activities. They 
distributed campaign literature 
before last weeks debate and 
tQjmock election; they have done 
canvassing in the Pittsburgh area. 
Last Monday these organizations 
sponsored hour shows on WRCT 
during which questions were an
swered concerning the policies of 
the presidential candidates.
The Johnson group has a mem
bership of approximately eighty. 
A feature of one of its meetings 
was a speech concerning campaign issues given by Dr. John R. 
^Coleman, Dean of Humanities and 
Social Sciences. The group has 
also performed clerical duties for 
the Pittsburgh Democratic Head
quarters. Many of the female 
Johnson supporters were Johnson 
Girls at the Democratic rallies at 
the University of Pittsburgh.
The Goldwater group, which has 
approximately sixty members, 
_ helped during the Bill Miller 
<^laUy, and the Goldwater-Miller 
Rally at Pitt. Dick Bishirjian, 
chairman of the Pennsylvania 
Youth for Goldwater. spoke to 
the group on several occasions. 
The climax of the organizations 
activities will be tomorrows 
Goldwater rally at the Civic 
Arena. Youth for Goldwater plan 
to meet his train at Penn Station.
by Inga Newbeck
Seats were at a premium Thursday evening as the De
partment of Drama opened its 1964-65 season with Henry 
Boettchers production of George Bernard Shaws Heart
break House. As a matter of^--------------------------------------------
fact, authough curtain time was 
8:15 p.m., the theater was packed
well before 8 p.m.
The house lights faded, and we 
were treated to an evening of 
Shavian England and its society 
in its most biting humor. The 
scene is laid in England in 1912. 
The play deals with the problems, 
weaknesses, and failures of twen
tieth century civilization by means 
of a representative group of peo
ple assembled in the home of Cap
tain Shotover.
There were, as always, new 
faces to be seen on Main Stage, 
Deborah Sussel as Ellie, Lilene 
Mansell as Nurse Guinness, Ray
mond Ferrante as Captain Shotover, and Bruce Weitz as the 
Burglar. These people are juniors 
this year and as such are new ar
rivals in the Tech acting company. 
They represent their class admir
ably. The other members of the 
cast will be well remembered for 
roles which they played last sea
son. They are Elizabeth Eis, Jane 
Sanford, Stuart Wood, Robert
Fraferttify Rush
The final fraternity rush parties 
of this semester will be held Oc
tober 31, 8 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Prospective r u s h e e s should 
wear coat and tie. Any Carnegie 
Tech student may attend these 
affairs.
Fox worth, Thomas DeMent, and 
Robert Browning.
The sets were designed by Anne 
Gibson, the lights by William 
Mintzer, and the costumes by 
Gail Singer.
Anthropologist
Discusses Man
Dr. L>onald A. Kennedy, Rej search Associate in Social An; thropology at The Boston Floating 
! Hospital, will lecture Friday, Oc: tober 30, 1964 at 8:15 p.m. in 
Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison 
; Carnegie College. His subject will 
be Form Follows Man.
Dr. Kennedy, a distinguished 
j Social Anthropologist, attended 
Harvard and Cornell Universities, 
i He has participated in many reC am pus - FavoredWALLY'S
MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave.U. S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)
1. Now that were 21 we have 
a lot more responsibility.
Now we make the decisions.
2. Right. And this year we have 
a big decision to makewho 
gets our vote for President.
Ive already decided 
to vote for the candidate 
of my choice.
8. Your decision should be based 
on what the candidate stands for. 
For example, does your mans 
fiscal policy square with your 
philosophy on the matter?
I hope not. I never 
could handle money.
5. Let me give you a piece of 
advice that will help you 
off to a good start.
I'd sure appreciate it.
6. Soon as you get a job, put 
some dough into cash-value 
insurance, the kind they call 
Living Insurance at Equitable. 
It gives your wife and kids 
solid protection and it 
automatically builds a cash 
value you can use instead for 
retirement or whatever you lik*.
Say, why dont you run 
for President?
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For complete information about career opportunities at Equitable, set 
your Placement Officer, or write to Edward D. McDougal, Manager, 
Manpower Development Division.
The EQWTABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home (yfice: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019  1964
search trips in conjunction with 
i his work.
In 1950, as a member of the 
Harvard University Peabody Mu
seum Field Trip, Dr. Kennedy exI cavated Pueblo ruins near Quen! ado, New Mexico. More recently,
, he studied the adjustment pro! blems of Navaho Indians living 
in off-reservation towns. He has 
also done studies in mental hos! pitals and in industries.
The lecture will be open to the 
public.
[Assbly Committee 
Seeks Topics
The Assembly Committee of 
Student Congress will consider 
suggestions for Tuesday assem| bly speakers or topics. It wish| es to make the Tuesday programs 
| more interesting for the entire 
j campus.
Those with suggestions should 
contact Joe Bowman at PKA or 
Martha Hodgson at MG 317E.
H & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED  NEW MODERN 
QUARTERS  ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
II
SYMMETRY 
FROM S I 2 S
AD DHESE FINE SDORES
PENNSYLVANIA
Butler. Milo Williams Jewelers
Grove City, Royal Jewelers
Indiana, Luxenberg Jewelers
Johnstown, Laws Jewelery
New Castle. Fletcher Jewelry
Pittsburgh. Grau JewelersBellevue
Pittsburgh, John M. Roberts C
Sons  3 stores
Sharon, W'engglers 
WEST VIRGINIA
Wheeling, Posins Jewelers
MINNESOTA
| Erie, Richard F. Mozur

---------------------------------------------------

rHHS
Psftre 4  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, October 28, 1964
Politics
1964 Election Becomes
Political Smear Campaign
f^eadetA 'lAJrite
by James Panepinto
With the Presidential election only a number of days 
away, one may look back over the campaign and analyze the 
objectivity of the information on which the voter has or will
mcke his decision. National party^;--------------------------------------
literature and mass-media infor-j Psychiatrists Say Goldwater is 
mation will be primarily considj Psychologically Unfit to be Pres 
eredident! has exceeded the limits of
This election campaign has! sensibility.campaign 
turned into a battle of personali
ties and a neglect of issues. There 
have been no speeches analyzing 
the issues, as was done by Adali 
Stevenson in 1952. Party litera
ture stresses the undesirable pers o n a 1 characteristics of the 
others candidate, and the issues 
are mentioned when they seem to 
fit into the smear campaign.
For example, at Republican 
headquarters in Pittsburgh, one 
can obtain documented exposes 
on Hubert Humphrey, The Flam
ing Liberal  Militant Liberalism 
in Action, and also on President 
Johnson. These phamplets go as 
far as to imply that Senator Hum
phrey has Communist connections 
because of his promotion of ComThe September-October issue of 
Fact magazine has done just that 
The editors of this magazine give 
no indications of any psychiatric 
qualifications, and yet they play 
psychiatrist and come to the con
clusion that Senator Goldwater is 
a man who obviously identifies 
with a masculine mother rather 
than an effeminate father, and is 
victim to all the ambivalence that 
such identification must create. He 
must aggressively prove every 
moment of his life that he is a 
man, and in his irrationally cruel 
and spiteful pranks he manifests 
all the hostility that such ambi
valence creates.
The manner in which the argu
ment was presented was extreme
ly sketchy, illogical, and much
munist aims in the U.S. Senate  Vse WaSt m,a<^ ' ?u?tes ff*Of course no evidence is cited. frmt C"teXt ExrPs ^om state-ments given m a survey of psyImplications are also made chiatrists were also printed in
about President Johnsons loyalFact.
ties by quoting Gus Halls ap
proval of the present government 
policies concerning the cold war.
Very little relevant information
about Senator Goldwaters men+v___ ,  . , tel condition was known by theseIn this argument, all factors exDsvchiatrists since none of themcept logic have been used by the Psycftiatrists since none of them PonL,. , had ever examined him person-.Hepublican spokesmen. n o r . , . ,ally. Some of the psychiatrists
The Citizens for Goldwaterseemed to realize this fact, and 
Miller Committee have also been | disqualified their opinions as havbusy producing literature  their inS very little meaning  some 
latest innovation has been a lets even refused to answer; the edicompare disk. On one side are tors of Fact seem completely obPresident Johnsons view on a livious to these facts. It is an obcertain subject, and on the other vious, direct smear tactic! 
are Senator Goldwaters. This
pro-Goldwater committee has 
shown that they can indeed prove 
anything with statements taken 
from context, as their choice of 
President Johnsons view on fiscal 
responsibility shows: I like to 
spend is LBJs attitude.
One may argue that party lit
erature has a right to be biased, 
and to a certain degree I will 
agree. However, a national maga
zine which prides itself in pre
senting both sides to an argument, 
claims that its primary dedication 
is relating the truth and dares to 
compare its ideals with those of 
Thomas Jefferson, and then pub
lishes an article entitled 1,189
As far as this article in Fact is 
concerned, one reply summarized 
its value: Your survey raises 
doubts in my mind as to your psy
chological fitness to publish any 
national magazine, especially one 
names Fact. Much of these smear 
tactics can be eliminated if public 
opinion is strong enough. Com
plaints to political headquarters 
about the content of campaign lit 
erature can be effective if enough 
people let their views be known 
Above all, magazines who thrive 
on worthless sensationalism and 
smear tactics should be eliminated 
from the market by the refusal of 
the discriminating reader by buy 
them.
The Carnegie Tech Tartan
Editor-In-Chief ....... ......................... .................Nancy Cameron
Executive Editor .........................................................Richard Elder
Business Manager ........................................................Eric Feldmann
Desk Editor ................................................................Dale Chodorow
News Editor ....................................................................Evan Melhado
Assistant News Editor..... ................................................Sue Attinson
Sports Editor .............................................................William Hartlep
Photography Editor .............. ......................................Martin Shenker
Layout Editor ...................................... .........................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor ........................................................... .......Claire Dzatko
Advertising Manager   ............................................  Richard Sextro
National Advertising Manager ......................................Virginia Salko
Secretarial Editor ...........................................................Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor ...........................................................Tom Johnson
Advisory Board  Marcia Avner
Secretarial Staff  Linda Ames. Judith Birkin, Jane Crout, Christy Dinwiddie, 
Lesley France. Marcia Grata. Fran Harkins, Pat Hartman, Marlene Kostek, Jan Senchak, Mary Stoll, Gail Whiteman.
Copy Staff  Nancy Barron, Helen Beatty, Ed Cheely, Linda Ferris, Elaine 
Katsila> Pam Merrill, Sharon Rambo, Verna Ream, Paulette Zdrojkowski. 
(initiation Staff  Pam Reducha, Ruth Steiger, Lynn Sterman, Marina Straeb.Leta Rubin, Marty Klein.
Bssinese Staff  Barbara Brwn, Diane Hayduk. Rick Prado, Carol Joffe.
I \  o t Staff  David Klein, Mark Labovitz, Ted Pierce, Martin Shenkar, Dave Howarth
Sport* Staff  Ron Bidula, Chris Macosko, Scott McCormick, A1 Rosen, A] Green. 
Annual Su* scription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented lor national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Campus Y Clarifies 
Friday Cine Series
Editor, the Tartan:
There seems to be some con
fusion in regard to the sponsor 
ship of the Friday Cine Series, 
which shows films at 8:00 and 
10:00 p.m. Friday evenings in 
Porter Hall 100. Even though the 
posters announcing the films to 
be shown for October had a spe
cific statement about Y sponsor
ship, further clarification is ap
parently needed.
The Friday Cine Series is spon
sored by the Campus Y.M.C.A. 
and Y.W.C.A. as a service to the 
entire Carnegie Tech community. 
It has two goals. First, to pro
vide for the campus an inexpen
sive but yet enjoyable entertain
ment on Friday nights, which is 
for many students, otherwise a 
rather dreary time. Second, to 
present on successive Friday 
nights during a month, a series 
of films dealing with the same 
general theme or topic, thus pro
viding a continuity which enables 
the viewers to compare the per
spectives and techniques of 
American and overseas films.
The Friday Cine Series is a 
project of the Campus Y.M.C.A. 
and Y.W.C.A. Even though there 
are clearances with the Film 
Arts Society, the Friday Cine 
Series is not co-sponsored by nor 
does it have any direct relation
ship to the Film Arts Society.
As a courtesy, the Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. had been extending to 
Film Arts members as well as 
to Y members a discount on the 
admission price to the Friday 
Cine Series. Officers of the Film 
Arts Society have now asked that 
this discount for their members 
be discontinued.
In order to comply with this 
request, the Campus Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. have adopted the fol
lowing prices for the Friday Cine 
Series: Y members, 25 cents; non
members, 50 cents.
Membership in the Campus 
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. for the 
entire school year is $3.00 for 
students and $5.00 for non-stu
dents. Membership applications 
and full information about mem
bership and other Y program is 
available in the Y office, 57 Skibo.
We hope this letter makes clear 
to everyone the purposes and the 
sponsorship of the Friday Cine 
Series.
David Adams 
President, Campus Y.M.C.A. 
Kathy Thompson 
President, Campus Y.W.C.A
Dorm Resident Disputes 
Justice of Sorority Floors
Editor, The Tartan:
Because the Tartan has seen fit 
to support the proposal of sorority 
floors, I feel that the other side of 
the question must receive an equal 
hearing. I will base my argu
ments on the statements made in 
the Tartan editorial of two weeks 
ago and try to show why I feel 
they are wrong. You begin with a 
discussion of sorority merits in 
general. I will begin in the same 
way.
Sororities promote good 
scholarship
Although the average sorority 
factor is above the all womens 
factor, (in this case the lead is a 
rather unimpressive .11), averages 
can be deceiving. According to 
standard policy, a sorority may 
not pledge or activate any girl 
who has not met a certain factor 
requirement. If all girls below a 
certain factor were eliminated 
from the all sorority factor, the 
averages would tell a different 
story.
It is clear then, that a degree 
of acadamic ability must neces
sarily come before and not as a 
result of sorority membership. 
Those most need academic as
sistance are never allowed to 
join a sorority. Those who do 
join often find their factors fall
ing under the pressures of rush, 
Greek Sing, etc.
Sororities promote find social 
standards 
Needless to say, it is impossible
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Michael W. Vargo
Exhibits
Tke 1964 Pittsburgh International Exhibition of Contem
porary Painting and Sculpture, October 30 through 
January 10, 1965, Carnegie Institute.
Etchings and lithographs by Harold Altman, 8:30 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and 9:30 a.m. to 
5 p.m. Friday and Saturday, Pitt Book Center.
Paintings by Kamal Youssef, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday 
through Saturday, and 2 to 5 p.m. Sunday through 
November 18, Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 North 
Negley Avenue.
Prints From Around the World, through November 
6, Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts.
Lectures
University Center from Philosophy of Science, Time 
by Thomas Gold, tonight, 8:15 p.m., Clapp Hall,
Fifth Avenue.
Research in the Tech Electrical Engineering Labs by 
Professor Frederick J. Young, tonight, 7:30 p.m. Scaife 
Hall 125.
The Political Process by William Lee Miller, tomorrow, 
11:30 a.m. Chatham College Chapel.
Why Capitalism? by Theodore O. Yntema, tomorrow, 
4:30 p.m., Skibo Ballroom.
Futurism  The Expression of Time by David Lewis, 
tomorrow, 4:30 p.m., College of Fine Arts, Room 210.
Meetings
Hillel Atid election eve discussion, November 2, 8:30 p.m., 
YM&WHA, 315 South Bellefield Avenue.
?Lutheran Supper Forum Meeting, speech: National 
Goals: A Liberty Viewpoint by Joseph Swartz, to 
night, 6 p.m., Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Avenue.
Pitkin-Teknon Club, tonight, 5 p.m., Shadyside Presby
terian Church, Amberson Avenue and Westminster 
Place.
Movies
*YMCA Friday Cine Series, No Exit, October 30, 8 and 
10 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
*Film Arts Society, Arsenal, tomorrow, 4:30, 7 and 
9:30 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Welcome Home Concert, Novem
ber 2, 8:30 p.m., Civic Arena. (For two free tickets 
send stamped self-addressed envelope to Pittsburgh 
Symphony Welcome Home Concert, PO Box 2221, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15230.)
Sunday free organ recital, November 1, 3 p.m., Carnegie 
Institute Music Hall.
Sports
?Football, Denison vs. Carnegie Tech, October 31, 1:30 
p.m., Tech Field.
Cross-country, Waynesburg vs. Carnegie Tech, today, 
4:30 p.m., Westminster vs. Carnegie Tech, October 31, 
11:30 a.m. Schenley Park cross-country course.
International Week Soccer Game, Pitt vs. Carnegie Tech, 
Saturday morning, October 31, Tech I.M. Field.
(*) Admission Charged
THIS SITE
And I Think We ll Coll This One
to accurately measure the social 
standards of sorority and non
sorority girls and compare them. 
On this topic, I can only state an 
opinion based on more than three 
years of observation as a Tech stu
dent and Dorm resident. In that 
time, I have seen and heard of
point out that they are no high
er as a result of sorority life.
Sororities promote * service
In certain instances this cannot 
be denied. It would be fairly safe 
to say, however, that the effort 
spent on group service projects 
pales in comparison with the
the social misconducts of sorority amount of effort used in prepargirls, and they do not seem to be ing skits and rush functions. It is
any less than those of non-sorority 
girls.
I do not mean to imply that 
sorority standards are lower 
than average. I simply wish to
true that many individual so
rority members serve in high 
positions in all-campus activities. 
It is also true that many sorority 
(continued on page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 28, 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
 Dorm Resident Disputes 
Justice of Sorority Floors
(continued jrorn page 4) 
girls participate in nothing but 
sorority.
It seems unfair that the so
rority as a whole should take 
credit for work done by in
dividual members  work that 
the sorority has nothing to do 
irl with.
It might be added that sorori
ties have no monopoly on campus 
leadership. The secretary of Stu
dent Congress, the secretary of 
Executive Council, and the presi
dents of the three womens honoraries, Cwens, Phi Tau Gamma, 
and Mortar Board, are all inde
pendents.
It is not fair to say that ev** erything about sororities is nega
tive. It is a fact that sororities do 
strive toward academic achieve
ment, taking positive steps in that 
direction. In each sorority there 
is a code of social behavior that 
members are expected to follow. 
Most important, sororities fill to 
some extent, certain social and 
recreational needs on a campus 
where the administration does 
little to provide means of student 
T relaxation.
What is notable is that they 
accomplish none of these things 
in a truly satisfactory way. Proof 
of this is that sororities usually at
tract as members less than 
of the women attending Tech. 
Right now, sorority girls number 
less than 200 out of about 900 
Tech women students. Why should 
we grant these small and some/ what ineffectual groups the privi
lege of individual floors in the 
dormitory?
A better idea would be to build
up social and recreational activi
ty through dormitories and all 
campus organizations that are 
open and beneficial to everyone 
and not just a small group. Steps 
are already being taken in this 
direction by major campus or
ganizations. Better big weekends 
are being palnned, on campus Fri
day night movie series has been 
initiated, more and better speakers 
are being brought to campus, and 
Morewood Gardens, as a dorm, is 
planning an all-campus mixer.
With cooperation between stu
dents and administration, Tech 
women can achieve a social, re
creational, and cultural life that 
sororities could never equal.
The idea of sorority floors in 
itself is an unfair one. Who 
would decide which floors so
rorities would occupy? The 
democratic method of room 
drawing would be destroyed, for 
sororities would have unwar
ranted priority over certain 
floors. Such a move should not 
be made without the consent of 
a majority of dorm residents.
If, as the Tartan editorial sug
gests, the sororities could justify 
their having a private floor by 
assuming the responsibility of en
forcing dorm rules on themselves, 
they would again be receiving 
preferential _ treatment. Permis
sion to have self-enforcement of 
rules is a privilege that should 
be allowed to all dorm residents
Most important, sorority floors 
would thwart one of the most en
riching experiences college has to 
offer  that opportunity for peo
ple with different interests and 
ideas to live and work together. 
Like all forms of segregation, so
rority floors would create a feeling 
of isolation at best and animosity
(li
$13.00
Civic Center 
Honda Inc.
MU. 1-9935 
4519 Center Ave. at Craig
Honda Movies  Saturday night 8:30
Heavy Weight
SWEAT SHIRTS
As Low As $2.15 ea.
Lettered Complete with 
Your Fraternity, Sorority 
Or Club design and 
Lettering 
(Minimum Order 12)
ALL STAR 
SPORTING GOODS CO.
1316 Fifth Ave.
AT. 1-5275 Pittsburgh
at worst among members of the 
student body that now gain a 
deeper understanding of each 
other from living together. I am 
sure that the many sorority girls 
who now room with members of 
sororities different from their own 
or with independents would agree 
with this.
Friendships between those who 
are alike will always develop na
turally, without sorority floors. 
Friendships between those who 
are different must be fostered.
This is my last semester at 
Tech. If sorority floors do become 
a reality, it will have little per
sonal effect on me. It is my hope 
that those who still have years to 
spend in college will weigh the 
value of those years carefuly, and 
consider the effect sorority floors 
may have on them.
Martha S. Simberloff
English 65
Traveling Office
The Carnegie Tech Travel Of
fice has been moved to 136 Baker 
Hall. Office hours are 9:00 to 11:30 
a.m. Monday through Friday.
Student Questions 
Cost of Trophies
Editor, The Tartan:
Concerning Fall Festival Dis
plays, I would not go so far as to 
say that those who won are not 
deserved of their fame. But I, 
who built a display with a cer
tain amount of effort on my own 
part and considerable amount of 
effort on my Brothers part, 
thought for a moment that we 
would share in the fame; perhaps 
only third place. However, Sat
urday night, when I glanced at 
the trophies to be awarded, I 
hoped with all my heart that the 
ignominy of third place would 
not fall on me. Because by god I 
would not have known whether 
to go home and eat a soft-boiled 
egg from the trophy or sip cham
paign by the ounce.
There were at least twelve dis
plays entered at $15 a piece for a 
total of $180. Since all three tro
phies were hardly worth $180 (if 
you dont believe me look up the 
prices in any catalog), it seems 
that certain people in charge of 
Display Trophies do not deem the 
winning Displays worth much 
more than an egg cup.
James R. McChesney
Writer Clarifies Goldwoter 
Stand on Civil Rights
Editor, The Tartan:
Following is a copy of a let
ter from Professor Langer *nd 
myself to Senator Jack McGregor 
in response to some remarks of 
his at a recent student assembly.
R. T. Schumacjter
Dear Senator McGregor:
We are writing with regard to 
some points which were raised 
in your talk at the Carnegie Tech 
assembly on October 13. In par
ticular, one of us asked you about 
Senator Goldwaters vote on the 
civil rights act of 1957. We re
cently have looked up facts about 
this, and thought you might be 
interested in our conclusions.
It is true, as you stated, that 
Senator Goldwater voted for the 
final version of the bill. How
ever, this final version, after be
ing worked on by the Senate, 
was so emasculated that it could 
not be offensive to anyone ex
cept a Southern senator who felt 
obliged to vote against any legis
lation called civil rights. Pas(continued on page 6)
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil
MATHEMATICIANS
PHYSICISTS
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
LINCOLN LABORATORY 
has openings for a 
limited number of en
gineers, physicists and 
mathematicians.
LINCOLN LABORATORY,
a research center of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is engaged in 
research and develop
ment in advanced elec
tronics, with emphasis on 
applications to national 
defense and space 
exploration.
A LABORATORY REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL INTERVIEW APPLICANTS
October 30
CONSULT THE CAMPUS PLACEMENT 
OFFICE IN ADVANCE
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
BOX 21  LEXINGTON 73 
MASSACHUSETTS
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
can IBM mor ey drBrrr?
If ysmr drBrrr ho hn Lhbrral Arto, EnBhnrrrhnB, tkr Schrncro, 
sr Bmohnroo Adehnhotrathsn, ysm eay vrry wrll fhnd ysmr 
rsmtr fsr advancrernt at IBM. Tkr earkrthnB and applh
cathsn sf csepmtrro sffrr sppsrtmnhty ts nrw Bradmatro hn 
a varhrty sf wayo.
At IBM, Data PrscroohnB Syotreo EnBhnrrro otmdy tkr brot 
wayo ts oslvr cmotserr prsblreo. Tkry fhnd tkr brot 
ertksdo and orlrct tkr brot rqmhpernt ts kandlr rack 
typr sf prsblre. If ysmr csllrBr rxprrhrncr kao tamBkt ysm 
ts srBanhzr hnfsreathsn and apprsack a prsblre oyotre
athcally, orr IBM.
An IBM Data PrscroohnB Rrprrorntathvr okswo cmotserr 
rxrcmthvro ksw IBM can krlp bmohnroo brcser esrr rffh
chrnt. In orllhnB ts bmohnroo, hndmotry, Bsvrrnernt, sr 
drfrnor, ysm mor ysmr swn hnhthathvr and hndhvhdmalhty. Ad
vancrernt csero ao ysm drvrlsp okhllo acqmhrrd hn csllrBr.
TksrsmBk hnhthal trahnhnB whll track ysm tkr trcknhqmro sf 
data prscroohnB and earkrthnB csepmtrro. If ysm arr lssk
hnB fsr sppsrtmnhthro ts Brsw, jshn IBM. Ysmr placrernt 
sffhcr can Bhvr ysm smr lhtrratmrrsr eakr an appshnt
ernt whtk smr hntrrvhrwrro. IBM ho an Eqmal Oppsrtmnhty 
Eeplsyrr.
Interviews December 3, 4
If ysm cannst attrnd tkr hntrrvhrwo, wrhtr sr vhoht tkr nrar
rot IBM oalro sffhcr.
W. S. Drokhn, Branck MBr. 
IBM BldB., Gatrway Ctr. 
PhttobmrBk 
Prnnoylvanha 15222
Tlllf
iDlrfci
DATA PROCESSING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, October 28, 1964
Writer Clarifies Goldwater 
Stand on Civil Rights
(continuecc from page 5)
sage was absolutely assured be
cause a yes vote implied little 
if any positive contribution 
towards a solution of the problem.
What impressed us is that Sen
ator Goldwater, in the prelim
inary roll calls, voted consistently 
and without a single exception to 
water down the bill or even to 
kill it. For example, he voted in 
favor of sending the bill to Sen
ator Eastlends Judiciary Com
mittee, where it would have re
mained quite dead.
It was, in fact, brought to the 
floor by a vote of 43-39, with 
only Senators Goldwater, Malone, 
Mundt, Williams (Deleware), and 
Young (S. Dakota) among the 
Republicans in the minority 
(6/20/57). Senator Goldwater 
then voted with the majority in 
eliminating the 14th Amendment 
implementation (7/24), and in 
adding jury trial provisions (8/2). 
These votes were in direct oppo
sition to the Republican policies 
of the time. From the N. Y. Times, 
7 25/57:
General Eisenhower was re
ported especially displeased 
because twelve Republican 
Senators had refused to follow 
their leaders. By one standard 
of measurement, these defec
tions provided the margin of 
victory for the Southern op
ponents of an effective guaran
tee of voting rights. The amend
ment (of 7-24-57) carried by 
nine votes.
There is one very remarkable 
aspect of this story which must 
be mentioned; i.e., that Lyndon 
Johnson voted with Goldwater on 
all of the above questions. It is 
no secret that, in the past, John
son has been anything but an 
avid supporter of civil rights. It 
seems to us therefore, that his 
actions in 1964 are all the more 
praiseworthy. This is probably 
the first time in world history 
that the central government of a 
great nation has risked its polical future in the open support of 
an oppressed racial minority. We 
believe that Lyndon Johnson 
staked his reputation of the 1964 
Civil Rights Act primarily be
cause, in his head if not his heart, 
he knew it was morally right. 
Our major objection to Barry 
Goldwater is that he has never 
seen fit to act this way. Despite 
his boasted personal morality, we 
believe that his judgements on 
national issues have been sadly 
lacking in moral principle.
Thus we believe a more ac
curate appraisal than yours of 
his legislative contribution to 
civil rights is that he kao made 
no positive, substantial contri
bution to the civil rights cause 
whatsoever.
We want to close by saying that 
we really enjoyed hearing you 
speak last week. We were dis
tressed by the poor attendance, 
which was inexcusable. For those 
of us who were there, however, 
it was comforting to learn that 
you are basically sensible, and 
to get the impression that you 
would really like to be able to 
support more sensible leaders of 
your party. Although we are both 
Democrats (one of us admits to 
having voted for you), we hon
estly hope you will be luckier in 
the future.
Sincerely,
James S. Langer 
Robert T. Schumacher 
Associate Professor 
of Physics, CIT
DING DONG
GOOK-ON 
CALLING
LOOK FOR YOUR 
GRUBERS 
REPRESENTATIVE
Campus Shows 
Assembly Apathy
Editor, the Tartan:
Last Tuesday at 11:30 a candi
date for the U. S. Senate, Miss 
Genevieve Blatt, spoke in the 
Skibo Ballroom. There are less 
] than 35 Senate seats to be de
cided this year and after the pres1 idential and gubernatorial cam' paigns these are the most impor
tant in the country. Yet out of 
more than 4.500 under graduates, 
graduates and faculty members, 
less than 200 heard Miss Blatt 
speak.
When college students, who are 
supposedly destined to become 
the leaders of our country, show 
so much apathy towards politi
cal issues, one wonders how we 
can criticize adults for not bother
ing to vote in November. Let us 
hope that it is just this campus 
where the concern few day to day 
assignments and the pursuit of a 
professional education has over
shadowed in local and national 
affairs.
Many may have chosen the ex
tra hour of lunch because they 
are from out of state and werent 
interested. But Candidate Blatts 
talk did not deal just with Penn
sylvania issues but those of na
tional importance as well. She
discussed the presidential nomi
nees and answered questions on 
foreign policy and public works.
It has been said but perhaps 
not often enough that a democ
racy thrives only as long as its 
citizens are educated about and 
take an active interest in their 
government.
Chris Macosko
Piano Smash
Delta Tau Delta will hold a 
piano smash on their patio on 
Saturday, Oct. 31 at 2 p.m. All 
proceeds will go to the Carnegie 
Tech Emergency Loan Fund, and 
everyone is encouraged to take 
out their frustrations at 10 cents 
a swing.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AYE.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
FURNITURE-40% Off At CHASE'S
40% Off Bedrooms, Dinettes, and Livingrooms. 
These are shown at factory warehouse displays 
and are available for immediate delivery.
NEW 9 x 12 RUGSs15 to *59
None higher . . . Other sizes . . . 
100 of these rugs may be seen ... at
21 CPfC 5432 WALNUT STREET
(next to Shady side Post Office
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily . . . Until 5 p.m. Saturday. 
Inquiry about furniture may be made at Rug Showroom 
above. The furniture displays are nearby . . . 621-1025
Tkr esrr cseprtrnt ysmr cs-wsrkrro arr, tkr Brratrr ysmr oathofacthsn wkrn 
tkry adehrr osertkhnB ysmvr dsnr. And tkr brttrr ysmr ckancro arr ts 
lrarn os ysm can esvr sn ts addhthsnal rropsnohbhlhthro and rrwardo.
BsrhnBo wsrld lradrrokhp hn tkr jrt tranopsrt fhrld ho an hndhcathsn sf tkr 
calhbrr sf prsplr ysmd wsrk whtk at BsrhnB. Tkr fsrward-otrhdhnB atthtmdr rr
opsnohblr fsr tkho lradrrokhp kao, ohncr 1916, prsvhdrd a otrady omccroohsn 
sf phsnrrrhnB ackhrvrernto: fhrot twhn-rnBhnr, rrtractablr-Brar, lsw-whnB, 
all-ertal ahrlhnrr; fhrot fsmr-rnBhnr, prroomrhzrd ahrlhnrr; fhrot esdrrn, khBkprrfsreancr bsebrr; fhrot larBr owrpt-whnB, emlth-jrt bsebrr; and, sf 
csmror, Aerrhcao fhrot jrtlhnrr, tkr 707, and tkr 720 and tkrrr-jrt 727. 
(RhBkt nsw wrrr drohBnhnB a varhablr-owrrp whnB omprrosnhc tranopsrt.)
BsrhnB ho snr sf tkr nathsno eajsr eanmfactmrrro sf kravy tranopsrt krlh
csptrro (Vrrtsl), and fsr esrr tkan tws drcadro kao phsnrrrrd esot sf tkr 
wsrld'o applhcathsno sf tkr oeall Bao tmrbhnr hn ahrcraft, hndmotrhal, earhnr 
and vrkhcmlar fhrldo.
And tkr opacr aBr? BsrhnBo csntrhbmthsno krrr hnclmdr eajsr csntract 
rropsnohbhlhty fsr tkr Mhnmtrean ICBM and NASAo Satmrn V Bssotrr  tkr 
lamnck vrkhclr drothnrd ts ornd Aerrhcao fhrot lmnar landhnB trae ts tkr 
essn. Wrrr alos wsrkhnB fmll blaot hn all stkrr pkaoro sf opacr flhBkt, 
hnclmdhnB a eannrd rartk-srbhthnB labsratsry and a lmnar srbhtrr.
Prsjrcto mndrrway hn BsrhnBo rxtrnohvr Schrnthfhc Rrorarck Labsratsrhro 
rncsepaoo baohc and applhrd rrorarck hn crlrothal erckanhco, oslhd otatr
pkyohco, nmclrar and plaoea pkyohco, trrrrotrhal and opacr flhBkt ochrncro 
and allhrd kmean factsro.
EnBhnrrro and ochrnthoto at BsrhnB wsrk hn oeall Brsmpo, mndrr omprrvhosr* 
phckrd fsr abhlhty ts hnophrr and prsestr tkr hdrao sf tkrhr aooschatro, 
Indhvhdmal hnhthathvr and abhlhty Brt plrnty sf rxpsomrr tkat way. (Tkr csnvpany rncsmraBro Bradmatr otmdhro at lradhnB csllrBro and mnhvrrohthro nrar 
BsrhnB hnotallathsno.) BsrhnB ho an rqmal sppsrtmnhty replsyrr.
Wrrr plannhnB ts hntrrvhrw rnBhnrrrhnB and ochrncr ornhsro and Bradmatr 
otmdrnto sn caepmo sn tkr datr lhotrd brlsw. Ss drsp hn at ysmr caepmo 
placrernt sffhcr and arranBr an appshnternt. Wrll br lsskhnB fsrward 
errthnB ysm.
Thursday and Friday  November 5 and 8
Divisions: Aero-Space  Airplane  Vertol  Turbin*  
and Boeing Scientific Research Laboratories

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October Z%t 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Parv 7
Guest Editorial
THE MARGIN OF VICTORY
* A short seven weeks ago our football team was eagerly 
looking forward to the start of what promised to be an in
teresting year. The squad hoped that the returning lettermen 
and the fine crop of freshmen could improve on last years 
uninspiring 1-6 season.
In the first game, currently unbeaten Westminster beat 
Tech 39-0. Wooster followed with a 27-0 win which was not 
|^so discouraging as the Westminster game because Carnegie 
Tech actually dominated the second half of play. Following 
a 21-6 win over Case, Carnegie Tech has lost to Allegheny, 
13-3, to Grove City 32-13, and to Franklin and Marshall 18-14. 
If the current trend continues, Carnegie Tech could very 
well finish with a 1-8 season. Whats wrong?
To be certain, Carnegie Tech is neither as deep nor as 
experienced as many of its opponents, but it seems that lack 
of depth and experience are only surface imperfections. At 
the heart of the problem is the attitude of the school in gen
eral and the team in particular toward athletics. In short, we 
do not have a winning attitude; both fans and players appear 
content* with something less than mediocrity. No amount of 
fan support or editorializing, however, can substitute for the 
team itself. They are still the ones who take the field on 
Saturday afternoon, and it is to them that we must turn our 
attention.
To date, our team has been disappointing, but it has 
been by no means punchless. The way it fought back from a 
13-0 deficit against Grove City shows that it can play good 
football. Certainly it can play well enough to beat Allegheny, 
Grove City, and F&M. Why then is our record not four wins 
kand two losses?
Coach Gasparella and his staff would undoubtedly like 
to know the answer to this. They have worked extremely 
hard to develop a winning club, but their efforts at teaching 
technical skills have been almost negated by the most glaring 
weakness of this team-desire. Neither size nor depth nor ex
perience can replace the will to win. It is desire that ac
counts for the second effort, for the extra yard, for the first 
down, and for the difference between victory and defeat.
To the coaching staff and to our team we must give credit 
* for trying. It is also regrettable that their efforts have not 
**been accompanied by the sort of spirit that produces a 
winner.
It is time for both players and fans to re-evaluate foot
ball at Carnegie Tech. In view of this years fine freshmen 
addition, it is reasonable to expect more good footballers 
and better teams at Carnegie Tech, but unless something is 
done both by the fans and the team to eliminate the losing 
complex and to develop a winning way, there will be more 
losing efforts in the future. Carnegie Tech need not bring 
back big time football, but it can bring back winning footfcba11 if it realizes that the margin of victory is desire.
Hank Werronen
Grado StrsnB 
In IM Trnnho
by Bill Robison
During the past two weeks the 
intramural tennis season has got
ten into high gear with many 
matches in all four leagues.
In the Scotty League the Court 
Kings seem to be strong con
tenders for first place, having won 
all three of their matches over 
the past two weeks. On Oct. 
9th they rolled over Delta Tau 
Delta 6-1, 6-0, they drew a for
feit from Beta Theta Pi, and on 
Oct. 14th they beat the Archi
tects 6-1, 6-1, 6-1.
Also in the Scotty League, the 
Architects and the GSIA C 
saw action on October 12th with 
the Architects coming out on top
 6-3, 6-4.
In the Plaid League there were 
only three matches played, with 
the GSIA B winning two of 
them, one over the Ball Crushers
 6-0, 6-1, 6-2, and the other 
over PiKA  6-0, 6-8, 6-2. The
I other Grad team in the Plaid 
League, the Grad Eagles, also 
j beat PiKA  6-3, 6-1.
The Tartan League may be the 
| scene of much tough competition 
| between two tough Grad team, 
j the Grad Nads and the GSIA A 
team. On October 12th the Grad 
j Nads fought the hustling ATO 
team for a 6-1, 6-2 victory. The 
GSIA A took both matches 
they played, one over the ATOs.
Most of the action of the past 
two weeks took place in the Kilty 
League. On October 11th Sigma 
Nu fought a hard battle with 
Delta Upsilon and won, 6-1, 6-4, 
2-6. The Dorm Trojans drew a 
forfeit from DU. GSIA D team 
i played three matches  on Oct.
I 15 th they lost to the strong EE 
Grad team, 6-2, 6-4, on Oct. 21st 
they won two matches, 2 sets to 
| 1, one match over the Dorm Trot jans and one over Delta Upsilon.
Crsoo Csmntry 
Trae Racko Up 
31ot In A Rsw
Carnegie Tech's cross country 
team stretched its unbroken string 
of victories to 31 last week as they 
ran over Geneva College, Stubenville, and St. Francis. The Tar
tans put five runners across in a 
row as they crushed Geneva 15-44 
last Wednesday on the opponents 
course. At Loretto, Pa., home of 
St. Francis, Saturday the harriers 
swept a triangular meet. The 
score was, Tech 18, Steubenville 
59, St. Francis 84.
At Geneva Harry Burkholder, 
Roger Cairns, George Crowford, 
Chris Macosko, and Kem Phillips 
finished in a tie for first place in 
23 minutes 39 seconds. Despite 
running entirely on hard-surfaced 
roads, the Tartans had little 
trouble as Paul Fackler captured 
places 10, 12 and 14 respectively.
Burkholder Sets Record
The bite of 40 degree weather 
and the threat of several Stubenville runners pushed several Tech 
thinclads to record times. Burk
holder won in 27; 41.5 followed by 
Macosko and Cairns both at 27:46. 
The old record for the 5.2 mile
| course was 29 minutes 11 seconds. 
I Thus the winners averaged better 
I than 5:20 per mile over the hilly 
j and very rocky terrain. Crawford 
I finished a strong fifth in 29:46 
while Stubenvilles Perry and 
Hunt took fourth and sixth.
After that the red and white 
jerseys of Carnegie dominated. 
Young Keim ran his best race of 
the season grabbing seventh fol
lowed by Fackler and Phillips tied 
for eighth. Techs ninth man, 
Marietta, beat the entire St. Fran
cis squad.
Times for everyone on the un
defeated Carnegie team have been 
progressively better and a meet 
this week may see the school re
cord for the Schenley Park course 
broken. This afternoon at 4:30 the 
hill and gully runners host once 
defeated Waynesburg. They claim 
unbeaten freshman who may give 
Tartan ace, Burkholder, a hard 
race. Saturday brings Westmin
ster to Flagstaff Hill at 11:30. The 
Titans claim the last victory over 
Tech, back in 1961.
Come Over and Relax 
Playing Pocket Billiards
 at  
Oakland's Modern 
Pocket Billiard Center
The RACK & CUE
218 Oakland Avenue 
Girls Welcome
Open Daily 11 to 1
THE BRIAR BOWL
37*5 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses Dis
sertations  Punctuations  Spelling  Grammar Correct
ed.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
AN ELECTIVE CURRICULUM 
IN RELIGIOUS STUDIES
Sponsored by the Carnegie Tech Chaplain s Association
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, Chairman; Pastor Charles W. Carlson, Dean
Beginning The Week of October t6 and Continuing Through The Week of December 18
Understanding The Bible:
The Rev. Rogene Buchholz, Wesley Foundation. 
Tuesday Evenings, 6:30 P.M. Room 56 Skibo.
The Psychology of Religion:
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, Hillel Foundation 
Wednesday Afternoon, 4:30 Room 56 Skibo.
An Introduction To Roman Catholic Thought
Dr. Phillip Walsh, Oratory of St, Phillip Neri. 
Wednesday Evening, 8:00 Highlander Room, Skibo.
Life As Decision; An Introduction 
To Ethics:
Vicar J. Paul Balas, Lutheran Campus Ministry. 
Thursday Evening, 6:30 Room 56 Skibo
Registration may be made at any of the chaplains offices, or at 
the Office of Religious Affairs, 57 Skibo. A Registration fee of 
$3.00 will be required for all, with the exception of those who 
have paid membership fees in one of the religious movement 
organizations.
Name ...............................................................
Campus Address .............................................
Year of Study ..................................... Major
Have Already Paid Dues in.............................
Registration Fee Paid $..................................

---------------------------------------------------

Pag# S  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, October 28, 1064
A favorite
in Canada.
Diplomts Go Ahead
In the fourth quarter with the 
Diplomats punting from their own 
20, the kick was dropped and 
F&M back, David Sipperly re
covered. A 54 yard pass run play 
from Murono to end Graham 
moved the ball to the Tech 11. 
F&Ms ground game moved them 
to the one yard line for a first 
down and goal to go. Murono 
went over for the score on a 
quarterback sneak. The two point 
conversion pass from Murono to 
Glasser was good and F&M again 
took the lead 18-14.
After the kick off, the Tartans 
again drove in F&M territory. 
Wisniewski passes combined with
This Saturday, the Tartans hope 
to win their second game of the 
season against Denison at the 
Tech field. The Tartans have only 
three games left this year, the 
latter two being against RochesI ter and W&J.
STATISTICS
TechF&M
11First downs12
112Net yards rushing17
81Net yards passing170
18Passes24
5Passes completed16
2Interceptions2
5Fumbles2
4Fumbles lost2
5-45Penalties3-25
4-33Punts-average5-30
SPORTS
Away
Slippery Fingered Tartans 
Fumble Awav Another One
by Bill Hartlep
Carnegie Tech lost its fifth 
football game of the season 
to Franklin and Marshall last 
Saturday by the score of 18-14. 
For the second week in a row, 
Tech outgained its opponents 
only to loose through fumbles and 
intercepted passes.
F&M halfback, William Glasser, 
spearheaded the attack, scoring 12 
points. The sophomore caught a 
TD pass, a two point conversion 
toss, and kicked a field goal and 
an extra point.
F&M Scores First
The Diplomats dominated the 
first period of play, prohibiting 
any sustained Tartan gains. Their 
stiff defense payed off when Marrill fumbled on the Tech 19 yard 
line and Diplomat, J. D. Smith 
recovered. With a first and ten on 
the Tartan 19, F&M drove inside 
the ten in 4 plays for a first down 
and goal to go. Quarterback Mu! 
rono then threw a pass from the 
4 to Glasser in the end zone. Score: 
F&M 7, Carnegie Tech 0.
In the second period, Murono 
took to the air again and moved 
his team to the Tartan 7 yard line. 
But here the Tech defense held 
forcing the Diplomats to attempt 
a 15 yeard field goal. The kick 
by Glaser was good and the score: 
F&M 10, Carnegie Tech 0.
Tartans Rally
The Tartans then came alive, 
driving 83 yards for the TD be
fore the first half ended. The 
drive started when Merrill re
turned the Diplomat kick off from 
his own 17 to the F&M 49 yard
Brtao Whn In Qmartrrfhnalo; 
ATO, SAE, Grado Lssk TsmBk
by Scott McCormick
Beta Theta Pi, scoring three times in the last quarter,
became the first team to advance into the semi-finals of IM
football by defeating Sigma Nu in the see-saw game 29-25. 
With only thirty seconds to go, Beta quarterback Lee Collins 
ran around right end thirty yards behind some beautiful 
downfield blocking for the winning score.
This climaxed a wild fourth*which the Betas 1 touchdown passes in the rout, and 
the Grads were never in the 
; game.
It was the same story against 
the Tau Delt-s in a playoff for 
first place. Higgenbotham caught 
a halfback pass from Bill Schliep 
on the first play from scrimmage 
for a TD and the Tau Delts spent 
the rest of the day making tags 
after completed ATO passes.
Grad Nads Led Steelers
The Grad Nads slipped into 
first place in the Steeler league 
as Don Shockeys pass receiving 
drove Beta Theta Pis defenders
Rhflr Trae 
Wkhpo Grnrva
Carnegie Techs varsity rifle 
team, suffering from a severe case 
of the first match jitters, defeated 
a weak Geneva team in their 
opener on Friday by a score of 
1383 to 1375. While the score was 
rather disappointing to the team, 
the day after a 1421 practice 
round, there were a few bright 
spots.
The biggest surprise was junior 
Scott McCormick, who was high 
scorer for the match with a fine 
281. Scotts average last year was 
271: his highest match score was a 
274. After a 98 prone and a medi
ocre 83 kneeling, he shot a 90 
standing to clinch the match for 
Tech.
Damberg High Scorer
Second high scorer for Carquarter in
pushed over three touchdowns 
and the Zoos, two. Given another 
sixty seconds, Sigma Nu may have 
pushed over another one, but the 
clock ran out with the Betas four 
points up.
In the first quarter, Bob Livengood snatched a long Lee Col
lins pass from two SN defenders
in the end zone for the games 
first TD. The Zoos took the kickoff and drove down to the Beta 
one, where John Blue ran around 
left end for the first SN touch
down. From here, the two de
fensive teams held until the ___________________,
fourth quarter when the scoring nuts. The Beta offense never could
began again, get rolling and they lost 18-11.
H ^ , This set up a game between theLivengood outdistanced everyrut'a \Nads and PlKA in the quarter-one and gathered in a perfect 
long bomb from Collins to put 
the Betas up by five. Then the 
Betas defense slipped up and 
Tom Glassberg got away on a 
center delay for a thirty yard TD, 
The Betas took the kickoff and 
went right back downfield when 
Collins ran forty yards up the 
Zoos middle. Sigma Nu drove
finals.
In the Giants league, SAE lost 
to Sigma Nu 10-9 and had to
settle for second place and a 
pairing with a tough GSIA Black 
team in the quarter-finals. Sigma 
Nu couldnt score a touchdown, 
but the SAEs couldnt scrape up 
enough first dowrns to take the 
game. The Zoos scored two safe
ties that spelled the difference.
Late in the last quarter SAEs 
quarterback, Harvey Gammon, cut 
loose a long touchdown pass to 
Don Pitman, but it was called 
back on a questionable illegal 
block call. SAE couldnt score 
again, and the score remained 
10-9.
GSIA Black Dominated
In the Browns League, GSIA 
Black rolled merrily along, crush
ing DU 34-14 and showing that 
they had to be given quite a 
bit of consideration for the cham
pionship. They will face a stiff 
test in the quarterfinals against 
SAE.
No matter who comes out on 
top. this years IM season has 
been a lot more equally competi
tive, with no Grad Eagle power
house dominating play as they 
did last year. The trophy could 
go to any one of several teams, 
and there is no such thing as an 
odds on favorite.
negie was a sophomore Rich Damberg with a 280. Rich averaged 
about 270 last season but has been 
shooting phenomenal practice 
scores of 285 and up.
Two freshmen, Timb Bristol and 
Dan Westlake, were also pleasant 
surprises, both breaking 270 in 
their intercollegiate match. Tim 
finished with a 96-92-85 283, plac
ing fifth among Tartan scorers, 
Westlake wound up with a 270 3
The biggest disappointment of 
the night was Bob Fritz. Fritz was 
in good shape after a 97 prone and 
a 98 kneeling, but then he com
pletely blew up in the standing 
position with a 77 for a total of 
272.
Senior Woody Whitlatch, a 
transfer student from Geneva, and 
a three-year letterman there, shot 
a 274, well below his average.- 
Tuck Arnold rounded out the* 
Tartan scoring with a 275.
Practices Phenominal
If practice scores counted, Tech 
would be rated one of the better 
teams in the East, but the Tartans 
havent been able to shoot in their 
matches. In a practice match 
against Duquesne they could do 
no better than 1393.
But as the season progresses, 
and regulars Fritz, Whitlatch anc/J 
McGlaughlin get into the groove, 
only national champion West Vir
ginia can expect to walk over the 
Tartans  and they may have to 
sweat a bit.
YOU?
Are you in a Tartan 
photo? Prints of all pic
tures, whether or not they 
appeared in the paper, are 
available for $1.00 per 8x10.
To order, call the Tartan 
office at 682-4557, or con
tact Martin Shenker, photo
graphy editor.
line for a 34 yard run. Rushing right back into the lead when
gains by Merrill and Barth moved 
the ball down to the F&M one 
yard line in seven plays. On the 
next play Wisniewski drove over 
for the score. The extra point was 
good and the score: F&M 10, Car
negie Tech 7.
Tartan domination continued in 
the second half, as end, DAppolonia recovered a Diplomat fumble 
of a Tech punt. After 3 plays 
failed, Wisniewski passed to Bill 
Coleman, who ran to the F&M 
7 yard line before he was brought 
down. Wis then handed off the 
Merrill who scampered in for 
the score. The conversion was 
good and Tech took the lead 14-10.
After the kick off, the Diplomats 
couldnt move the ball and were 
forced to punt. The Tartans drove 
down to the F&M 3 yard line, only 
to see Wis fumble and the Diplo
mats take over. Again, F&M was 
unable to form a sustained drive 
and once more punted from deep 
in their own territory. The Tar
tans again drove back to the 
enemy 10, where Merrill was 
caught behind the line and fum
bled at the 17.
Tony Williams gathered in a John 
Blue pass on a slant pattern from 
the ten. This set the stage for 
j Collins' gamewinning end run.
ATO Wins Two
The Betas werent the only 
ones busy at working on a 
championship football trophy. The 
ATOs, after playing some loose 
i ball against PiKA and Tau Delt,
: came back to systematically de
molish GSIA Gold and Tau Delt 
to clinch first place in the Eagles 
; league.
Tau Delt had pulled a big neat 
upset over ATO, 8-6 to throw 
the Eagles League into a three 
way tie, but the Alpha Taus 
settled down and roared back 
against GSIA to the tune of 31- 
13. Bud Higginbotham threw five
the running of workhorses Barth 
& Merill moved the ball within 
the Diplomat 20. Diplomat Bill j 
Glasser then picked the game 
winning pass out of the air at the 
goal line and ended all Tartan 
hopes of winning the game.
~ |e
Chap Stickgoes along I
DON'T LET DRY, SORE UPS SPOIL YOUR FUN-WHEREVER YOU GO. GO WITH CHAP STICK'
byEic Feldm( lF *es, eM IlN MnEeUO MRDS2 dU(c2. l(OdE0)(H. *i2
"Any guy who spends as much time outdoors as 
I do really needs Chap Stick', says the Chicago 
Bears star center. For me, its a necessity. What 
with the real raw Sundays on the field, hot
summer practice, and winter skiing off-season, 
my lips used to get weatherbeaten twelve months 
a year. But a couple of swipes with Chap Stick 
and my lips feel greatit helps heal them faoth1*
The lip balm selected 
for use by the 
U. S. Olympic Team.
