OMME
Volume IVAPRIL 6, 1910Number 26
PITTSBURGH PENNSYLVANIA
IFiice IO Cents

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAKTAN
'3 ߣOC/C^^
Hats, Caps, and Nice Haberdashery to the 4.4requirements of the most fastidious dressed. ^ 
Open Evenings.
If you want to be well drest let us be your 
toggers
SOCIETY BRAND SUiTS & OVERCOATS 
$20.  $22.50  $25.  $28.  30.
Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats$3. and $4.
McILWINES
434 WOOD STREET 
5C9 MARKET STREET 
542 LIBERTY AVENUE
Swell HaberdasheryEvery Day Prices 5;
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY
 COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS ) 
ft PITTSBURG, PA. \
& Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley. ^
& CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND '*
S SATURDAY \
Private Lessons Daily jj
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Cleaners and 
Dyers
608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg. J
6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty *
Both Phones.
*O*O+C^C-*O*C>+O*O+O*C^O+0+04O*i^K>+0*O 
YOURE FROM TECH.
and Banquets. g
OD\a\0\O*D\DQ%O*D%0*O*D*0\D\O\O>r0.S 
ft . p
\ THE RITTENHOUSE |
VE------------- I
8 Ift Affords Superior Facilities for o
o Serving Dinners, Balls 
o
o */ , v 0
ft oO ^g The Ball &oom floor is cushioned g 
o making it perfect for dancing. 
| ____ 
2 8 ^ Special Inducements to Students g
? of Carnegie Tech. 0
o ft? a
?  - 0
I KUHNS I
ft 0
g IN THE RITTENHOUSE 0 ftft 0o ftosfioxo%oxoxo38oxoxoxoxoxo\oxoxoxQ3fioo
4"0,8,04*0,i*0*l,0,i,0*X,0,&0,i,0,I,O,j*0|0<IO*SO*S,0,l,0,f,0,i,0
? sa $ov *g Joseph Horne Co., 
v ?
O PITTSBURGS FOREMOST UPTODATE *
DRY GOODS STOREO
0 We desire to say to young men and women 
0 that fashionable clothes for young people are ij,
v 00 the dominant features of this store. ol u^ Next to variety is that other important mat.g,
0 ter. close-to-cost prices. &
4* 00 Our new lines of Suits for young men, and &4* oi
our new lines of Suits for young women show 4.0^ that perfection which can only be attained by
0 faultless workmanship. {
& Then, all young people are interested in the $4* 00 Accompaniments of correct dress, the furnish4* 0^ ings as they have come to be called. Rely ?
^ upon us for up-to-the-moment styles. *
0 Best way to judge a store is by a personal 4"T 02 visit. *4* 0
1 S
? 00404-04'04*O4-04*04*O4<Hi.O4-O4-O4'0404'O404*0*04-
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IVartau
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1910No. 26
AIR. AND MRS. CARNEGIE HERE
Well Pleased with Schools and Equipment.
With the Founder in the city for three days, and 
the first announcement of the time of his visit 
Changed, much anxiety was manifested by the stu
dent body as to whether we were to be honored with 
a visit or not. For nearly five years the Schools has 
been without personal contact with the Founder. 
During all this time two classes have graduated with
out having been able to see the kindly face and 
hear the strong and stirring voice of Mr. Carnegie. 
When the Schools assumed the place of the largest 
technical schools in the United States everyone con
nected with them was pleased, and now that we 
have had their Founder in our midst, have talked 
to him and he to us, happiness is complete.
The fourth day of his stay in Pittsburgh was prac
tically all spent here at the Schools. A succession 
of banquets, interviews, and visits had been thrust 
upon this man until he had good cause to be well 
tired of them all.
The Founder and Director arrived at the student 
entrance of the A. & J. building shortly after ten 
Monday morning, and were met by Dean Connelley. At once entering the building, these were soon 
joined by Mr. William N. Frew, president of the 
Board of Trustees of the Institute, Mr. William McConway, Chairman of the committee on Technical 
Schools, Mr. W. L. Scaife, a member of the Board of 
Trustees of the Institute, an old friend of Mr. 
Carnegies, Mr. Thomas M. Miller and Mr. Erasmus 
Wilson the Quiet Observer of the Gazette-Times. 
The first place visited was the Forge Shop where 
Mr. Taylor and some of the A. & J. students were 
the first to give Mr. Carnegie the agreeable sur
prise of the practibility of the work being done which 
he so often expressed. Mr. Dosey's Foundry and the
Machine Shop with Mr. Hepburn in charge were 
carefully gone through. As the Founder was pre
sented to those in charge of all the classes or shops 
he spoke words of greeting and appreciation of Avhat 
he was seeing for the first time. In the Machine 
Shop Mr. Whyte the Scotchman in charge of the 
tool room, was given a hearty handshake.
Upstairs to a class room in mathematics the party 
went under the leadership of Mr. Connelley. Mr. 
Carnegie manifested much interest in the students 
and when ever opportunity was offered talked and 
asked questions concerning the work. The Electric 
Wiring shop was thoroughly inspected with much in
terest, and Mr. Calderwood congratulated on the 
thoroughness of the work being done in his depart
ment. It was here that Mrs. Carnegie and Miss 
Brinkerthoff, her companion, joined the party. Mr. 
Pfouts and his Pattern Shop came in for favorable 
comment, and before leaving, the Founder and Pfouts 
had quite a long chat. The mottoes and terse sent
ences pinned upon the bulletin board were read by 
Mr. and Mrs. Carnegie and especially enjoyed by 
the latter. The Plumbing Shop and its head came in 
for as much praise as any of the other departments, 
and from here the Founder was taken to that part 
of the building occupied by the School of Applied 
Design.
Visits Applied Design.
Dean McGoodwin and Messrs. Ferrand and Lee 
were on hand and walked with the party through 
the aisles on both sides of the room. As they neared 
the end the first halt for an informal talk to the stu 
dents was made. Here Mr. Carnegie said, I know 
now, that you are all going to be famous because you 
come from a famous school. The long Carnegie yeli

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
was given with vim and the Founder continued, I 
have just been informed that I am one of the three 
contributors to the Paris prize, and am glad to see 
that you are competing for it, for I would like to see 
some of that money come back here. After speak
ing to the Design girls who had come downstairs to 
see him, the party said goodby to Deans Connelley 
and McGoodwin and began inspecting the aeroplanes 
built by the Aero Club that had been brought out 
on the lawn.
Turning to the Tartan representative Mrs. Car
negie said, This is the first modern aeroplane Mr. 
Carnegie and I have seen. On hearing the remark 
he said, Yes, the first I have seen for years. Mrs. 
Carnegie and I were in one once. It was Maxims, 
Hiram Maxims. There was one feature to that 
aeroplane I wish all you boys would incorporate in 
yours before any flights are attempted. The aero
plane was securely chained to a railroad track and 
there was no possibility of our rising more than six 
feet above the ground. Boys, be careful, for 1 would 
not want to hear that any of you were hurt in trying 
to fly. I do not mean to make any attempt until na
tural wings begin sprouting on my shoulders. How
ever, it is good experience and place the school 
above the others. That is what we wantto have 
Pittsburgh lead in everything.
After looking them over carefully an amusing in
cident occurred. But I doubt, he said, if they will 
ever be of anjr great practical use.
Oh, yes, they will, stoutly affirmed the Director, 
they are bound to.
Well now, what could they ever use them for?
 For carrying messages of importance.
They cannot beat the telephone and telegraph at 
that, was his quick comment.
1 did not mean that in 
the commercial sense. In 
time of warThe Direct
or never finished the sen
tence 
War! ! War? Why man, 
we are not going to have 
any more war.
View Athletic Field.
At this point the party 
joined by Dr. John A. 
Walking slowly
& the board walk, the 
recently completed tempora
ry observatory was pointed 
out to the Founder. Round
ing the end of the barn the 
party obtained their first 
view of the Athletic Field. 
The Director and Mr. McConway explained the layout 
of the land, and pointed to 
where the boundary lines of 
it were. Tech field then was 
the topic of conversation, 
the Director explaining 
how it was built by the students, and what a sacrifice 
it meant of their time and money. The camera 
caught the two of them just as the comprehension of 
what had been done fully struck the Founder.
Well, well, was his comment, That is wonderful. 
It certainly shows the proper spirit, and it is good 
to have the body developed as well as the mind. 
Later Mr. McConway stated that this undertaking 
to appealed to Mr. Carnegie as much, almost, as 
anything he had seen in the Schools.
Director Hamerschlag was the object of a kindly 
joke on the part of the donor while the former was 
explaining the great understaking those in charge of 
the schools had had in leveling the ground and fill
ing the ravines surrounding the buildings or the sites 
upon which they now stand.
Pointing to the hollow in which the athletic field is 
located, Dr. Hamerschlag said: If the city builds a 
subway, there is the only dumping place for the 
excavated ground and they may pay us for the 
privilege of using the hollow.
Have you any relationship with the city coun
cils? he was asked.
Yes, the Director replied.
In that case I shall have to keep my eyes on you, 
the Founder said with a twinkle in his eye.
Sees the M. M. C. S.
The Margaret Morrison School attracted the at
tention of the Founder and his wife on account of 
the sound sense behind all of their work. His ap
preciation of the Pittsburgh sentiment was well ex
pressed on meeting the head if the dressmaking 
department.
Mr. Carnegie, this is Miss Moran, who is in charge 
of this department and who has just returned from

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
New York where she gave an address, said Miss 
West.
Oh! You have been telling things to the New 
York people have you? asked the donor.
Yes, was the answer.
Thats good, laughed Mr. Carnegie, we can show 
them things.
His views on style were forcibly given by Mr. 
Carnegie in the dressmaking department when he 
said, The best lesson to give the girls is to have 
them design a dress, if possible, that will wear for 
at least five years. This prevailing tendency of 
changingthe style as they call it every little while 
is one of the great evils of the age. Not only is it 
harmful to the great part of women because the ex
pense, but even those with plenty of money are 
harmed by the worry which they continually have 
to undergo in planning new costumes to conform 
to the up-to-date designs.
Luncheon in the House.
At luncheon time, the donor of the schools was 
given perhaps the best evidence of the work being 
accomplished when Mrs. Carnegie, Mr. Carnegie and 
the entire party were taken to the lunch room of the 
building and served with luncheon prepared by the 
students. The steel master could hardly believe 
that the splendid lunch was the result of the instruc
tion given the girls, but was taken into the kitchen 
and shown the girls at work, beating eggs, making 
bread and learning all the culinary arts.
Especial interest was shown by Mr. Carnegie and 
the other guests at the school in the work of the 
class in the gymnasium of the girls schools. The 
entire party were delighted at the grace manifested 
by the members of the class and at the splendid 
training they evidently were receiving.
THE FOUNDER.
In an address given the girls in the assembly 
room, Mr. Carnegie expressed his gratification with 
what was being done and what he saw, saying in 
part:
Mrs. Carnegie and I have never received a more 
gratifying surprise anywhere than that given us here 
today. It is the first time we have had an oppor
tunity of going through the buildings and ascertain
ing the great work that is being done.
In the past, women were in many respects con
sidered the inferior of man. In the progress of 
civilization, woman has steadily risen because of the 
qualities she possesses and because man is not the 
barbarous, warlike character he was. Men still re
tain, however, a little of that spirit when they go 
to war and kill each other.
It is true that it is woman more than man who 
tends for the greatest good and it is she who raises 
man to the highest standard, this being the reverse 
of what Milton says in his Paradise Lost.
Woman raises a man to the higher things of life. 
To two wcmen to whom I owe everything I have and 
am are my mother and my wife. If you ever become 
depressed and downcast at the things that happen 
in this human life, remember that man began as 
a savage, but that ever since we have known man, 
he has steadily risen and that he was not created 
with an instinct of self degradation. He was created 
from the lower order of things and has ascended 
up higher and higher and that there is no limit to the 
ascent he may yet reach. It may result in perfec
tion. I have always kept the motto that AH is well 
as all grows better. LEAVING THE A. & J. BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
MR. AND MRS. CARNEGIE SEE AEROPLANES.
Mrs. Carnegie Speaks.
Mrs. Carnegie also made a brief address, saying: 
I am not a speaker but I would be stone if I could 
not give you a greeting after what I have seen here 
today. I have been greatly touched by your work 
and am gratified at what you are doing. The motto 
at the entrance to this building especially impressed 
me. Now, when we hear so much about womens 
rights, do not forget womens prerogatives, that the 
greater work is to make the home better, to help 
man and lift him to the highest standards and ideals 
In the future, when people talk to me of womens 
rights, I will be able to point to the Margaret Morri
son School and say There is an evidence of the great
est work being done by women for the benefit of 
mankind.' 
A touching part of the exercises in the assembly 
room of the girls schools was reached 
when Miss West stated that as the stu
dents had not known Mr. Carnegie personally 
before, it would hardly be appropriate to 
sing Auld Lang Syne, and as they were not familiar 
with the words of the Scottish melody Weel you na 
ccme back again, Mr. Carnegie might appreciate the 
sentiment should America be sung by the girls. 
The iron master heartily approved of the sugges
tion and all present rose and sang the National 
anthem. Miss Stoner, the physical director, played 
the other two songs mentioned on the piano, the 
girls joining with Mr. and Mrs. Carnegie in singing 
them.
Owing entirely to the great exertion of going 
through the buildings, the Founder was unable to 
visit more than the Electrical Laboratory, the Chem
ical Laboratory, and the Assem
bly Hall in the School of Ap
plied Science. Upon making 
his decision to cease the visit
ing, a mass meeting of all the 
mens schools was called.
The long Carnegie was never 
given in such style as when the 
man in whose honor it has been 
used since the founding of the 
Schools entered. Deafening 
handclapping evinced a small 
part of the delight at the meet
ing. The Director asked for a 
cheer for Mrs. Carnegie, and the 
ringing short speller was given.
Dr. Hamerschlag, in introduc
ing, or rather presenting Mr. 
Carnegie to the students, said 
in part: "For five years we have 
longed for an opportunity of 
welcoming the Founder to the 
schools and now we not only 
have him present with us, but 
greater interest and enjoyment 
has been added to the occasion 
by the presence of Mrs. Carne
gie.
The Founders Address.
The Founders address in part was:
I have just been telling the girls how much highci 
they are than men, but all true men will acquiesce 
that women should be first because of their graces 
and virtues. Man, in his ruder part in life, become.?, 
the bread winner. In this struggle, do the best you 
can, for this quality ennobles all mankind. Man 
cannot do without woman and woman cannot do 
without man. Everything depends upon the proper 
mating of the two.
I would advise those boys, and I can as I have had 
great experience with the opposite sex, to follow this 
rule, when picking a wife.
Watch for the daughter who is taking the best 
care of her mother and is the greatest use in the 
household, not the one who is making the most 
show in the ball room, and if you find a good daugh
ter upon whom the mother relies, you wont have to 
pay any insurance money that she will make a good 
wife. That is the most valued hint, I believe I can 
give you.
I am heart and soul with you in your work. I 
had to make my own living. Keep the fact with you 
to be true to yourself for a man who is that cannot 
be false to anyone. There is no such a thing as forgivenness, for all wrongs effect the character. Every 
time you permit a wrong, you never can be what you 
would have been if you had kept the straight path
way. Human nature cannot be perfect, but be as 
strict as you can.
In your struggle in life, place a high ambition be
fore yourself, not the one so many have of becoming 
a millionaire. That is a low ambition. The first

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
duty of man is to be self maintaining, but useless 
dollars do not add to human happiness and very 
often, if one has sons, it leads the sons astray. If
I were given my choice, I would chose honest par
entage rather than money. I had good parents and 
had to struggle, and I am glad of it. It is the mo?t 
valued heritage. As men become educated, the de
sire for money lessens and the wish to help the 
fellow men increases. Dont let money be your God, 
but try to serve others.
Mr. Miller Proves Interesting.
Mrs. Carnegie gave a short address telling of her 
delight at having been present and having seen the 
boys at work.
William N. Frew, president of the Board of Trus
tees of the Institute, was introduced by Dr. Hamerschlag and told the story of the boy who could not 
be taught to say I have gone instead of I have 
went.
William McConway spoke on the value of a good 
physical body on which to carry mental powers and 
said the boys enterprise in making the athletic field 
had appealed to and impressed Mr. Carnegie to a 
great extent, perhaps as much as anything else in 
the school.
Thomas N. Miller, a trustee of the Carnegie Hero 
Fund Commission, and the man who started Mr. 
Carnegie in the iron business, was prevailed upon 
to address the students. His talk was especially en
joyed by Mr. Carnegie owing to the references to the 
old days. Mr. Miller said in part:
Mr. Carnegie and I never had the opportunities 
you boys have. I am reminded of a debating society 
we had. I was president and was envied because I 
sat in the leather armed chair. We met in a shoe 
shop. One night Mr. Carnegie talked for one hour 
and a half about whether the judiciary should be 
elected by the people or not. He thought they should, 
and they are today. Mr. Carnegie and I have been 
friends for many years, and
At this point Mr. Carnegie called: Name them, 
Tom, but Mrs. Carnegie living up to the characteris
tics of her sex regarding ages warned the speaker 
not to do so.
However, he said he had known the iron master 
for more than 50 years.
We are friends and relatives, continued Mr. Mil
ler, but he is unfortunate in being a multi-million
aire while I am not.
Mrs. Hamerschlag Speaks.
Director Hamerschlag called on his wife for a 
speech saying, We have with us a person who has 
been to Europe with me and who made me do just 
as she said.
Mr. Carnegie jumped to his feet and led Mrs. 
Hamerschlag to the front of the platform introduc
ing her as the power behind the throne.
Mrs. Hamerschlag expressed her willingness to as
sist and encourage her husband in his work and to 
help the students to the extent of her ability. She 
was greeted by cheers.
Dr. Hamerschlag then addressed the students, tell
ing of his four magnificent children, the girl, the
Margaret Morrison School and the three splendid 
boys, the Schools of Applied Design, Apprentices and 
Journeymen, and of Applied Science.
Society is made up of units, said the Director, 
and it is our plan to make these schools of great 
benefit to the community.
Following the Directors address the party left the 
hall and the buildings for the Hotel Schenley, where 
the Carnegies were quartered.
Mr. Carnegie was to have addressed the night stu
dents of the schools but issued the following state
ment regarding his engagements for the evening: 
Owing to the humidity and inclement weather and 
a long day spent at the Carnegie Technical Schools 
and going over the immense buildings from before 
10 oclock in the morning until 4 oclock in the after
noon, in order to avoid any over fatigue on Mr. Carneigies part, Mr. Carnegie will not speak to the stu
dents of the night schools but will spend the balance 
of the afternoon and evening getting such rest as he 
needs preliminary to the long railroad journey from 
Pittsburgh to New York as he leaves early in the 
morning.
The corner-stone of the building at Oberlin to 
aid the men at Oberlin to become stronger men 
morally, broader intelelctually and kinder men so
cially has been laid.
FriendIn what course does your son expect to 
graduate?
FatherIn the course of time, by the looks of 
things.Ex.
MR. McCONWAY HAS THE FLOOR

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTA X
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. TaggartAssociate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.As
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, 11-Business Manager.
Subscription RatesYearly .............................................................. $2.00
Single Lopy .....................................................10 Cents
Student Ra'tes
Yearly ............................................................... $1.00
Single Copy....................................................... 5 Cents
For Advf rtising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
be signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
will not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
THE FOUNDERS VISIT.
The anticipation of five years has been realized. 
The Founder and his wife spent the greater part of 
the day in our midst. It was a splendid day for the 
student body, for now we know the Founder and feel 
that he knows us. From what he said while here, 
the same thing is true for him.
In viewing the Athletic Field and grasping its con
nection with the students, he expressed his thorough 
approval with the manner in which the work has 
been done. It is his best evidence of our sincerity in 
desiring athletics and an Athletic Field, and he has 
accepted it as such.
In meeting Mrs. Carnegie we have had the dual 
pleasure of coming into contact with a delightful per
sonality and forming a better idea of how the Schools 
coincide with the ideas of its Founder.
We can now refer with perfect propriety to our 
Uncle Andy, for we know what a good uncle he has 
been to us all.
THE FOUNDER APPROVES OF OUR FIELD. 
CARNEGIE LIBRARY OF PITTSBURGH.
The Library now has an almost complete set of 
bulletins of the Paint Manufacturers Association of 
the United States. Bulletin No. 19 gives a well il
lustrated account of paint investigations in connec
tion with the Pittsburgh Test Fence at the Carnegie 
Technical Schools.
For the convenience of visitors to the Technology 
department, adjustable drawing tables have been 
provided for the use of those who have occasion to 
trace or copy drawings in technical journals or 
patent records.
Among the indexes to technical literature recently 
added to the library shelves are the following: 
Technical Press Index, 1908-1909; Engineering 
Index Anual, 1909; Repertorium der Technischen 
Journal Literatur, 1908. The last of these is an 
index to the contents of more than 400 scientific and 
engineering periodicals in French, German and Eng
lish, so arranged that articles may be found under 
either the subject or the author.
On one of the tables in the Technology department 
this week will be found a number of references on 
Haileys Comet and on Monorail Roads.
Recent technical books added to the Library in
clude the following:
Guldner, Hugo. Design and construction of in
ternal combustion engines. 1910. q621.43 G96. Ger
man original is a standard autohritative reference 
work, written by a gas-engine designer and builder 
for others engaged in the same work, with the idea 
of presenting to the technical man, and especially to 
the gas-engine designer, a reliable handbook and to

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
the gas-engine builder new in the field a practically 
useful guide. Gives special attention to the prin
ciples involved. Aims to foster scientific investiga
tion and lead to more rational design. The translator 
has converted metric into English units and has 
omitted the historical part, adding instead a discus
sion of modern commercial types as developed in 
America.
Holley, Clifford Dyer. Lead and zinc pigments. 
1909. 667.6 H72. Thorough treatise on manufactur
ing processes and on chemical and physical examina
tion of pigments and mixed paints. By far the 
most complete and authoritative bock yet written on 
the subject. A. H. Sabin, in Engineering News,
1909.
Jacoby, Henry Sylvester. Structural details; or, 
Elements of design in heavy framing. 1909. 690 J13.
Bibliographies, p. 292-294, p.334-341, p. 362-363. 
Timber framing. Discusses properties'of timber and 
gives detailed information on wood fastenings, 
beams, columns and trusses.
Noelting, Domingo Emilio and Lehne, Adolf. 
Aniline black and its applications in dyeing and 
printing; tr. by Arthur Morris. 1909. At the present 
time it is the most important dye in connection with 
which much secrecy is maintained in reference to 
details of its production. . . . Covers the whole
ground of aniline black dyeing and printing, includ
ing a description of the machinery employed in pad
ding, drying, ageing, etc. Journal of the Society of 
Dyers and Colourists, 1909.
Peckham, Stephen Farnum. Solid bitumens; their 
physical and chemical properties and chemical analy
sis, with a treatise on the chemical technology of 
bituminous pavements. 1909. Scientific treatise deal
ing with classification of bituminous substances, and 
with technology and physical and chemical proper
ties of solid bitumens. Author has studied the sub
ject thoroughly and his work will be valuable in 
standardizing nomenclature and explaining nature of 
bitumens.
Ries, Heinrich & Leighton, Henry. History of the 
clay-working industry in the United States. 1909. 
r666.709 R44. Bibliography, me 241-245. Brief re
sume by products, and fuller treatment by states. 
Carefully compiled. Confined to history and purpose
ly omits details of distribution and mode of occur
rence. Statistics include 1907.
FIRST YEAR INDUSTRIALS.
J. Schmidt, who is deeply interested in scientific 
research, states that scientists descended Mt. 
Vesuivus, while it was errupting, to get a heat on. 
This method should be referred to Mr. Taylor.
Bauman of the stationary engineers is devoting his 
spare time to areoplanes. The pattern makers are 
having plans made for a stretcher.
Several members of the class were appointed to 
help Mr. Geo. W. Gerwig take the census.
Now that the lights were removed from the front 
of the chemistry lecture room, will somebody please 
install electric fans?
.ELEVEN-INCH TELESCOPE MOUNTED.
Techs Telescope is now an assured fact. For 
the past two years it has been in process of con-, 
struction in the laboratories of The John A. Brashear Co., Ltd., of this city. It is now sheltered in 
the temporary observatory cn the school grounds, 
but will later be permanently housed in a splendid 
stone building, adequately equipped for systematic 
study of the heavens.
The instrument is one of the finest of its size in 
America, and is very complete in all respects, hav
ing a focal length of 15 feet and object glass eleven 
inches in diameter. The equatorial mounting is fur
nished with the customary driving clock, and a 
right ascension clock, both of unusual excellence. 
The driving clock is used to keep the instrument 
constantly upon the star, or other heavenly body 
under observation, following its horizontal motion 
closely while making allowance for the Earths rota
tion, while the right ascension clock elevates the 
telescope to follow the vertical rise of the body, 
thus the star is constantly spotted.
The equipment includes a number of micrometers 
and other instruments of precision for use in deter
mining the angular distance of double stars. The 
subject of double stars has attracted much atten
tion in astronomical circles recently on account of 
the exhaustive studies and numerous discoveries by 
Dr. Burnham, of Chicago, and the Department of 
Physics expects to pay much attention to them.
The eight-inch photographic .stellar camera will be 
used in detailed study of sun-spots, and many 
photographs of Haileys Comet will be made at the 
time of its close visit to the earth in May.
The Tartan has made arrangements to reproduce 
weekly the best photographs that are obtained. At 
the present time the comet is not visible.
READING THE CIRCULAR MOTTO.

---------------------------------------------------

luTHE TARTAN
MRS. ANDREW CARNEGIE.
MHO CLUB.
The next regular meeting of the Mho Club will be 
held Wednesday, April 13, at which time talks will 
be given by Slocum, 08, and Casey, 09, on Experi
mental Testing of New Type Steel Frame S. K. 
Motor. These talks will be especially interesting 
because they will deal with the practical testing of 
an altogether new type of motor and will be given 
by those who have worked on the tests.
It is important that all members be present, not 
only to hear these talks, but to transact important 
business. The dance question must be settled at 
this meeting and arrangements made for meetings 
for 'the remainder of the year.
To make it more convenient for the speakers the 
meeting will begin promptly at 8 oclock and the 
talks will be given first. Be on Itime.
SECOND YEAR INDUSTRIALS.
Andrew Carnegie met McMurray in the machine 
shop and told him that he looked like a good me
chanic except that he was too good looking.
Mr. Morse says that the more some people talk 
about a thing the less they know about it.
Mr. Carnegie was much pleased with the Machin
ists Mathematical Class, as they showed such love 
for their work.
BASEBALL.
OPENING HOME GAME.
All arrangements have been completed for theopening base-ball contest on the new Tech Field 
Saturday afternoon at 3.30 oclock, between the 
Varsity and the Pitt Independents. This game 
was placed on the schedule in order to get a line 
on the players before the games with the fast college 
teams begin.
Some radical changes are expected in the line-upas the result of the poor showing made by the Var
sity at Bellefonte and State College. As the team 
is composed mostly of new material, it was not ex
pected that Tech would win the latter has the best 
college team in Pennsylvania.
Practice is in full swing every evening for the 
opening game. Several new men have come out 
this week, and it is expected that the team will be 
in fine shape for the game Saturday. The pitchers 
are in better form than they have been since prac
tice started, and from present indications, Captain 
Coldren hopes to win Saturdays contest.
All of the faculty tickets were distributed, and a 
large crowd is expected to be on hand for the initial 
contest. The students athletic tickets are good for 
admittance. The field has been put into shape by 
Mr. Weidlein, so there is no reason for poor playing. 
Mr. A. G. Liddell, of Kenyon College, and Mr. Rob
ert Gumbert will be the officials.
INTER-SCHOOLS TRACK MEET.
The students of the three mens schools are es
pecially requested to interest themselves in the first 
of the annual track meets to be held between the 
different schools for the possession of the trophy 
now being designed by the students of the School 
of Applied Design. As an additional inducement to 
get men out Director Hamerschlag has offered gold 
buttons to the winners of the different events. The 
event will possibly be held on May 7 instead of May 
14; the decision lying with the manager will be an
nounced on the bulletin boards.
Plans are now under way to arrange a dual track 
meet with Westminster at New Wilmington in tlie 
near future.
PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT.
Some of the Sophomore Mechanicals are wonder
ing what infinity squared is.
Just wait, Jimmy. She will write you. Dont quit 
School and make a search for her. Miss Fairfax 
gives good advice.
Word received from Coach Snitzer indicates that 
he is enjoying life at his home in California.
W. I. Sivitz, 08, is employed at Economy, Pa., by 
the National Metal Moulding Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANil
FRESHMAN BASE BALL.
Considerable ciass spirit is being shown in the 
Freshman team this year. Although the class treas
ury has been severely taxed all year, the Freshmen 
have rallied to support a base-ball team. Suiiable 
uniforms have been ordered and a schedule of ten 
games arranged.
Practice was held on each afternoon of last weefc, 
and from the thirty men reporting some excellent 
material has been selected. It is not possible at the 
present time to give a complete line-up.
Saturday, in a practice game with the Oakland 
Ali-Stars, the Freshmen won easily by the score of 
149.
Mr. Reed, of the School of Applied Science, is 
doing efficient work as head coach of the team, and 
is well pleased with the showing that has been 
made.
Considering that Freshman teams develop material 
for future Varsity athletics, it is hoped that interest 
displayed in the Freshman team will not be limited 
to the Freshman Class alone.
The following schedule for the team has been ap
proved by the Committee on Athletics of the School 
of Applied Science:
April 9Braddock High at Braddock.
April 1GEast Liberty Academy at Tech Field.
April 23Pending.
April 28Union High School at Wilmerding.
April 30P. C. Reserves at Tech Field.
May 7Braddock High at Tech Field.
May 14Pending.
May 21Tarentum High at Tarentum.
May 28P. C. Reserves at P. C. Campus.
May 30Pending.
June 9Avalon High at Avalon.
A game with the Varsity to be played Wednesday, 
the 6th, and one or more games are to be arranged 
with the Tech Industrial team.
Your Carriage Waits Without.
The carriage waits without, my lord. 
Without what, gentle sir?
Without the left-hand running board, 
Without the French chauffeur,
Without a drop of gasoline,
Six nuts, the can of oil,
Four pinions and the limousine,
The spark plug, and the coil.
Without the brake, the horn, the clutch, 
Without the running gear,
One cylinderit beats the Dutch 
How much there isnt here!
The car has been repaired, in fact,
And you should be right glad 
To find that this much js intact 
Of what your lordship had.
The garage sent it back, my lord,
In perfect shape throughout;
So you will understand, my lord,
Your carriage waits without.
Harvard Lampoon.\ -.if:
PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT
Molly Kennedy (before the special schedule 
went into effect): Mr. Denton, are we to run this 
experiment or let on we are running it?
Buck Wallace: I offered the barber 15 cents for 
my shave, but he said it wasnt worth more than a 
dime.
Mr. Denton: The workmen test the sap with po
tassium ferrocyainde, which gives a chocolate 
precipitate.
Wallace: But the ferrocyanide is poisonous.
Mr. Denton: They eat very little of the choco
late.
The Mho Club wants a baseball game for Satur
day morning. See McCorkle for arrangements.
Stearns (on the way to Mechanical Hall, as he rubs 
his head): Who is throwing water down on me?
Manker and Hecker have been appointed assistant 
baseball managers.
What about the dance to be held by the organized 
clubs of the school?
DIRECTOR AND MRS. CARNEGIE LEAVE,

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
---------HIGH LOW----------
Volu ome Nbr 2o6r;
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENERS
6227 Penn
6222 FrankstownEAST END
Experiments made with ultra-violet light appear to 
show that it is more effective for sterilizing liquids 
than ozone. The ultra-violet light is produced by 
means of mercury vapor lamps, quartz tubes being 
used instead of glass tubes, which are placed in di
rect contact with the water to be purified. A French 
investigator, M. Victor Henri, has found that the 
bactericidal action varies greatly with the distance 
of the lamp from the bacteria. With a Cooper Hewitt 
lamp of 110 volts an exposure of 800 seconds at a 
distance of 60 centimeters was required in order to 
kill the bacillus coli. At a distance of 40 centimet
ers an exposure of 180 seconds was sufficient, and 
at 20 centimeters 20 seconds. The temperature ap
peared to have little, if any, effect, for the microbes 
were destroyed even when the liquid which contain
ed them was frozen. In treating opaque liquids, such 
as milk, it was necessary to spread the liquid out in 
a thin layer. For milk the maximum thickness of 
layer with which the effect could be produced was 
one inch. Another investigator produces the ultra
violet light by means of electric discharges in a rare
fied atmosphere of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, 
sulphureted hydrogen, or sulphurous acid.Scientific 
American.
NEWS OF THE COLLEGES.
The Glee Club of the University of Chicago has 
just returned from the longest trip ever taken by 
that organization.
The Junior banquet of the Case School of Applied 
Science took place last week.
Vanderbilt University proposes to establish a stu
dent activities fund with a ten-dollar-a-man fee.
Worcester Poly tech has an aero club, and a glider.
So have we!
A married students club was recently organized 
at the University of Indiana. Carnegie Tech ought 
to have!
Wise-looking Freshman (entering Deans office) 
Is the Dean in?
ClerkNo.
FreshmanWhen will he be in?
ClerkI cant tell you. Is there anything I can do 
for you?
FreshmanNo. I only wanted to get a catalogue. 
Harvard Sampson.
A course in college songs is being given this year 
at the University of California.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.
Otto etting
^ Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield ^ ^ ' ^
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
RESOURCES OVER ONE MILLION DOLLARS 
DEPOSITS OVER NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS 
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
A bank that is strong in Assets, in Men, in Courtesy.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
CONDENSED FACTS ABOUT HALLEYS COMET.
A few facts presented in a condensed form may 
possibly interest the readers of the Scientific Ameri
can who wish to follow the course of Haileys comet 
in the heavens during its present appearance.
The last perihelion passage occurred on Novem
ber 15th, 1835. The present perihelion passage will 
occur on April 20th, 1910. The perihelion distance 
will be 0.587, and the aphelion distance will be 35.30. 
The eccentricity is 0.967, the longitude of ascending 
node is 57 deg. 16 min., the node and apsis angle is 
111 deg. 47 min., the inclination of the orbit is (162 
deg. 12 min. +) 17 deg. 48 min. , the longitude of 
perihelion is 305 deg. + and the motion is retrograde, 
in other words opposite to that of the planet. The 
diameter of the nucleus cannot of course be stated 
with anything like accuracy at the present time, but 
it is not likely to exceed 120,000 miles.
At the end of February Prof. Barnard of Yeikes 
Observatory estimated the tail to be 14,000,000 miles 
long. Just before and after perihelion passage the 
tail will be at least that long, and probably longer. 
The comet is fast approaching its perihelion point, 
or point nearest the sun, where, as we have said, it 
is due to arrive on April 20th. During the months 
of February and March, the earth and the comet are 
racing on practically parallel orbits, 170,000,000 
miles apart on opposite sides of the sun.
The comet first crossed the earths orbit about 
March 10th at a point where the earth will be, so to 
speak, for it will be some 10,000,000 miles above the 
plane of the ecliptic. In April the comet will emerge 
from behind the sun, and will become visible to the 
naked eye in the eastern sky before sunrise.
On April 20th, when the comet will swing around 
the sun, it will be 57,000,000 miles away from the 
sun. Its velocity will be 26 miles a second. The 
earth travels at about 19 miles a second. On May 
2nd the comet will traverse the orbit of Venus, some 
6,000,000 miles above the planet. In other words, an 
astronomer on Venus would find the comet a far 
more impressive spectacle than a terrestrial astrono
mer. As it rushes on, Haileys comet will pass be
tween the earth and sun close to its ascending node. 
On May 18th the earth will be about 13,000,000 miles 
away from the nucleus or head, as against 5,000,000 
miles in 1835. Moreover, on May 18th the earth 
will be enveloped in the comets tail for a few hours. 
A few days later the comet will be visible in the 
western sky after sunset with a 15 deg. or 20 deg. 
splendor. After that it will speed away from the 
solar system. The last glimpse of it with the naked
Bel! P>'one12i2 J Schenley
Cleaving, Dyeing 
Repairing & Pressing
HiTIEZBIlilirsrGZBIEIOS. 
-Merchant Tailors327 South Craig St-,Pittsburg, Pa.
SI PES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
P. SCHIEFER CO.
Dealer In Sausages, Puddings, Etc. 
CHOICE BEEF, PORK, LAMB AND VEAL
Stands 144-146 Liberty Market, E. E., Pittsburgh, PBell 2572 Highland P. A. 1271-X
*******
! Tech Barber Shop 1
% Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STREETS *
d o
R E Y M ER S 
There are no other 
candies quite so gocd as 
R EY M E R S
S
OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO. W> Q# Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and &
& Cleaning Works S
g City Office631 Penn Avenue 
$ East End OfficeS. Hiphland Ave. & Baum St. O
B. K. Elliott Co.o
& , PERFECT FITTING EYEV GLASSES ANI)
- SPECTACLES *
e Nee b e ru2 6ixth 6te (Bessemer Building)u
^ PITTSBURGH ,
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
FOR TEN, FIFTEEN OR TWENTY BONES 
YOU CAN BUY A DANDY SUIT AT
Hat
F urnishingsCOHNS
Top Coats 
Slip Overcoats
6185-27 PENN AVE., Cor. COLLINS, EAST END.
M3i3JSf33M3IBI3r3MSISMSISM['I3M3fc!EMSfSI0J3SISI3I3I3[3ISI3M3IMS!Sf3f0r3EIcl.[MSMSMEISM3EMSMSM3I3I3I3fSI^I3I33i3S
eye will be obtained probably at the end of June. 
It will not reappear for seventy-five years.
Haileys comet is noteworthy because it was the 
first comet for which an orbit was plotted and a time 
table calculated. It has a history more or less identi
fied with the history of human thought and civiliza
tion. The superstitious dread with which it was re
garded in medieval and ancient times swayed many 
a monarch. It was instrumental in forming the poli
cies of Louis le Debonnaire in 837. It blazed in the 
sky when the Turks threatened to overrun Europe in 
1456, and when the Reformation was at its height in 
1531. It struck terror to the Saxons under Harold 
in 1066, when they were conquered by William of 
Normandy. This fear of the middle ages was dis
pelled only when Hailey made his great prediction in 
1682 that the comet would return in 1758, a predic
tion which was vertified after the great astronomer 
was in his grave.
A comet which has reappeared regularly for over 
two thousand years must be composed of fairly en
during stuff. Just what its composition may be, the 
present reappearance will for the first time enable us 
to tell, for in 1835, the spectroscope was not invent
ed, nor astronomical photography perfected. 
Scientific American.
The Newspaper Guy.
I find a man pushing his way through the lines 
Of the cops where the work of the fire fiend shines. 
'The chief! I inquirebut a fireman replies:
Oh, no; why, that's one of those newspaper guys.
I see a man walk through the door of a show, 
Where great throngs are blocked by the sign, S. 
R. O.
Is this man the star that no tickets he buys? 
Star nothin! Hes one of those newspaper guys.
I see a man start on the trail of a crook,
And he scorns the police, but he brings him to book, 
Sherlock Holmes! I inquiresomeone scornfully 
cries:
Sherlock Holmes h1! Naw; thats one of those 
newspaper guys.
s* *o *1* *1* I* i* b 1* 1* 4*!  tj, .s. ***!*'!* 4*
^ THE DON SEELE PHOTO STUDIO ^.j, == * 
Forbes Building, Oakland 4*v **4 Forbes and Atwood Streets
Forbes Street Cars Pass the Door. Fifth Avenue Cars
one Block North. .j,
ox0s\o\o\0\o%0\0\ov>%ov>v>v>\ov>v>\
0
& * CREAM COVERED & CHOCOLATE DIPPED 0MARASCHINO CHERRIES
A most delightful Confection, 
10 cents and 30 cents each.
in boxes, at  
$0Special Package Candy. Post %
*0 
0 g
Iroquois Block y
FOR EASTERCards, 1c and 5c.
HALLERS
0 36I8 Forbes Avenue 
*0 $ %0*0\0%0*0%0*0%0%0%0X0*0%0S0X0\0\0%o
* *
GROCERIES *
No. 405 Dithridge Street !j!
Bell Telephone 178 Schenley
KERMAN H. ADAM
Dealer In 
CHOICE FAMILY
t II Bellefield Presbyterian Church 
* *
J CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister *
I ----------- *
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. %
4! 11:00 A.M.Morning Service. !f!
* 7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E. * Aft 8:00 P. M.Evening Service. 41
f _______ *
 fv All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome jg
A A
OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET g
Dealers in g
BUTTER, EGG6e POULTRY, CHEE6E, TEA AND / 
COFFEE i
3714 FORBES STREET 8Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.
And some day Ill pass by the great Gates of Gold 
And see a man pace through unquestioned and bold 
A. saint? Ill ask, and old Peterll reply:
No; he carries a passhes a newspaper guy.
-Louisville Herald.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
*0X0X0X0X0X0X0X00X0X0X$X0XXX0XX&X0X0XCa&0XSX0^0XX0X0XX0X0XSXX0X$X&X0X0X$ ie3- x-."criDE:scrExz:i_j dz sou I
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. O
* The New Creation for Men >  TAN VIKING CALF99 Button and Blcher % ------VIKING CALF99 Button and Blucher$4.00 and $5.00 the pair
QXOXOXOV:>\O%OXOX0X0XOX0X0X&X0XaX0X0X0X0X0XX!;X0XOXO\oXOVOXOXO\XD*OX0XOXO\0XO%O
The Standard of Excellence*O4*O*s?o?o*o*4*o*o4o?
OeA'Jj
^ne Best Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST.
OAKLAND
SPECIAL EASTER SALE 
NECKWEAR 
SHIRTS GLOVES
Big Selections Best Qualities
Small PricesD-Cli4,04,v4*C^C>*frC*4'0l,04,Ci4,0,fr04*04*0.4,C^Ci;,i,^'4,04*0ii
Williams Triumph.
About him clothing broadcast shed,
His haste did testify,
As, while the clock hands onward sped,
He struggled with his tie.
His wrist was aching with the cramp, JrThe tie fought every inch.
Weak, quivering, panting, hot, and damp,
Did William pull and pinch.
Long time he wrestled to and fro,
Long did the clock deride him,
The Devil! then he shriekedand lo,
The Devil stood beside him!
MacDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxSxxx
 * DRAWING AND ^
 ARTISTS MATERIALS ?
; Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz *
606 Wood St.Tel. Grant 279.*XXNXXSXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Well Pressed is Well Dressed %
LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO.
301 South Craig Street
oxoxoxoxox^xoxoxoxaxoxox'oxoxoxoxoxox
R. W. MEDICK
CHOICE HOME DRESSED MEATS AND 
POULTRY
Both Phones 3804 Forbes Street
Alas, another ideal shattered!
How earth and air will prate 
At sight of Williams collar battered,
At thought of William late.
Sobbed William: I shall miss the dance,
Wouldst thou my end embitter?
Not so; I bring you one more chance,
Brace up, be not a quitter.
What chance, what hope to save me so?
What means, however drastic?
This Quick-Detachable False Bow 
Hooks on with an elastic!
Avaunt, unconscionable fiend,
In accents awful spoke he.
Though all red Hell had intervened,
Id tie this tie or choke me.
He rose erect, he heaved a shrug,
He drew a gasping breath,
He gave one last terrific tug
And chocked himself to death.
Harvard Lampoon.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
IVAVPVRL6,L6,LVAVPVAVPVL6,AVAVPVAVPVAVAV
D*O*0*O*O*O4<>*O*O*O*O*C^O*O*O*O*O*i*O*
S GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores ofGEO, K. STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center
Down TownEast End
*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*0*O*0*O
1 90T SB0TIUTG HENYa t
THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH 3fflThe place to live for convenience, pleasure and ft 
profit. A
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND 
DANCES. 
Phone 248 Schenley.
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

ja r@JSMSM SJSjSISJSJ3MSlSSJ5MSMSSM3SEM5JSMS3J rJH. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
THE TARTAN
.i.4a04a04a04aO4a04a04a04a04a04O4aO4a04a04a04a04a04a0 i
B. & B.
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG
EST ASSORTMENT
East End Store:
Bell 5500 Highland 
P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:
Bell 1101 Court 
P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
SMSM3MSf3J&I3J3J3J3M3MMSM3Mi5J3J3lc!J3MSi3JB3M3J33
4a
4a
4a
4a
4a
4a
4a**
4a
4*
4a
4a
4**
4a
4a
4a
4*
4*
4a
4*tU
4*
A. G. SPALDING* BROS.
THE SPALDIN2
TRADE MARK
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of 
Quality.
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World of
OFFICIAL
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
are interested in 
Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHATS NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.
Ae Ge 6PALDING & BRO6e439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa.
IF YOU
The S. Hamilton Co.
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
531 Wood St., - PITTSBURG, PA.
<1<
w u
cggosogoggoscgogcggcgososogcgggs
0\0*0\O\0X0%0V0X0%0X0\O%0X0*0\0X0X0X 
 0
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
i< Have you seen the new Tan Oxfords for>
 Young Men?
Have high Cuban heelvery smart last
I the Shoes for this Summer$4.00.'f
> BOGGS & BUHL?t
4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*4''4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4a 4a 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4 4* 4* 4a 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4a4* 4* 4* 4 4* 4For
MEN
For
WOMEN4*4*4*
I4- 4*4*4- 4*4*4a 4*4*4a 4a 4a 4a 4a aaa?4'4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4a 4* 
4*0VI,0\4,0X4a0\4,0%4,0\4a0\4a0\4,0\4a0X4a0\4a0\  *
SHOES THAT ARE 
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY
435-437 Wood Street
4
4*
4*
4*
4a
4*
4*
4


X>C "2" -U. 1^23.0-W
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ?...........................................
IDo "STo-a. Know
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine
Printing ?......................................................
XJ IToia. Know
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
<Sc 14ITSCHEE, 
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hilandu Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
/ /
0 0 0V0V0V0%0*0V:*0\0*0\0\0\0\0\0V0%0*0%
4*04<04a04a04a04a04*04a04a04a04a04a04a04a04a04a04a04a0 
0 1 A. W. SMITH CO., I
POfTStS
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL - 
SURPLUS & PROFITS
$4,000,000 
- $3,000,000
0 $ 
X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XO
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es
tablishment in America.
Represented in all large cities
KEENAN BUILDING
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
y. ^ ^ ^ _
YOURE FROM TECH.
