SEE THE THISTLE 
SALESMAN 
TODAYavrtfgie fttati
BUY YOXJE 
JUNIOR BANQUET 
PRELIM NOW
VOL. XVIII. NO. 9CARNEGIE INSTITU IE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1923
................. ......... ....rT7T"?CARNEGIE AND 
DETROIT U. TIE 
IN TOUGH GAME
Breaks of Game Again Favor 
Opponents Who Make On
ly 3 First Downs in Game 
Plaid Draws First Blood
FINAL SCORE IS 6-6
By J. F. Christoff.
The Carnegie Teen warriors, twen
ty-seven strong, hopped on the rattlers 
last Thursday evening and journeyed 
to Detroat where the powerful Uni
versity of Detroit was met on Satur
day. The game, replete with thrill
ing plays on both sides, resulted in a 6-6 tie after sixty minutes of terrific 
battling in which the Skibos had all 
the better of the argument.
As in the Lehigh game a week pre
vious, the Tartan gridders completely 
outplayed their opponents, who were 
extremely fortunate to get away with 
a tie game against the proteges of 
Steffen and Marks. On only three oc
casions were the Detroiters, who two 
weeks ago held the strong Wash-Jeff 
tea!m to a 6-0 score, able to penetrate 
the stonewall defense of the Tartans 
for first downs, and at no time were 
they really in a position to score ex
cept in the final quarter when Vreeland, their stellar back, caught An
dersons low punt on the Carnegie 
thirty-yard line and raced all the way 
for Detroits touchdown.
The high wind played a very im
portant part in the outcome of the 
contest, and the Slcibos were extreme
ly unfortunate in losing the toss and 
being forced to play against the wind 
in the first and fourth quarters. Fight
ing a heavier team against such odds 
in the opening period, the Carnegie 
boys did valiant work, and gradually 
pushed Detroit back until the latter 
was forced to punt from her own goal 
line. At this juncture the home team 
received a decided break of the 
game. Detroit's punt was carried by 
the high wind over Robertsons head 
and before the elusive oval could be 
recovered it had rolled to the Car
negie two-yard line, from where 
(Continued on Page Two.)
INDUSTRIES MEN ASK ALL 
SENIORS OF THE FOUR COL
LEGES TO BE AT TEA DANCE
The Industries Seniors are holding 
a tea dance this Friday at the Union. 
The Tartans will furnish the music, 
and the affair promises to be a real 
live one.
The Industries men are striving to 
make the party a real get-together, 
and they hope that every Senior of 
the four colleges will attend.
PROM COMMITTEES 
APPOINTED AT M.M.
ALL BEAUTY CONTEST 
PHOTOGRAPHS MUST 
BE TAKEN THIS WEEK
NEW SCIENCE CLUB TO
BE STARTED ON CAMPUS
Girls Vote Against Combining 
With Men in Four School 
AffairMust Pay Dues
There will be a new' club on the 
campus soon if plans now under way 
go through. The students of the va
rious sqience courses are going to 
form one big club insted of three 
small clubs. A meeting is going to 
be held in Room 113, Science, ou 
Thursday at 4:30 p. m. at which the 
final steps toward organization will 
be taken.
All students in the M. M. Science, 
Chemistry Science, and Physics Sci
ence courses are expected to be there 
and have their little say.
FATHERS QUITE 
I PLEASED; BRIEF
Junior Banquet to be 
Different This Year
Coming Banquet Will be 
Better Committee Hopes
That the Junior banquet this year 
is going to be "different and still 
be good, was the decision reached at 
the meeting of the banquet commit
tee last Thursday. The plans are 
still very hazy as yet, and the price 
cannot be definitely settled until sev
eral decisions have been reached. It 
is pretty certain, however, that it will 
be about the same as vthat of last 
year.
It is expected that 150 Juniors will 
be present, and in order to reach this 
number, every Junior in the three 
schools will have to be there. It was 
definitely decided that the banquet 
should not be a four school affair, and 
the committee is proceeding on that 
basis.
The place for the holding of the 
feast rests between the Hotel Schen
ley and the Fort Pitt at the prsent ____
time, and it is practically certain that past sjx yearSit will be held at one of these two 
places.
The matter of entertainment has 
come up for careful consideration and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Carnegie Dads Enthusiastic 
After Treatment Accorded 
Them  Majority Come 
From Out of Town
ABOUT 150 REGISTER
The plans for the Womens Junior 
Prom, January 18, are rapidly becom
ing definite. In a short time, every
thing will be ready for the great an
nual social event of the year for the 
women.
The social chairman, Bernice 
Rentz, has appointed a committee to 
help her in the work. The following 
girls were chosen: Programs, Doro
thy S'mith and Dorothy Weber; deco
rations, Ellen Eyeman and Dorothy \rrr\jrr\ p1 \T T/^V \/"T'r\ 
Diamond; orchestra, Helen Gillespie V I j r\(\ ll/YllJ 
and  Dorothy Smith; favors, Estherl
Johnson and Ida Finlcel; refresh-1 ------------------
ments, Grace Munhall. The work of 
these committees has been progress
ing each week.
It was decided to hold the dance at 
the Hotel Schenley. Nothing has as 
yet been definitely determined con
cerning the orchestra and the wo
mens favors, since the committees in 
charge are still receiving bids for 
both.
At the last meeting of the Junior 
class, the subject of combining the 
Womens Prom with the mens was 
again discussed and finally came to 
a vote. When the votes were count
ed, it was found that there was an 
almost unanimous opinion in the class 
that the women keep their Proms as 
a separate and distinct affair for Mar
garet Morrison and Fine Arts girls.
Because of the heavy expense al
ways involved in a Junior Prom, a 
system for financing the event was 
also decided upon at the meeting.
Each Junior girl will pay $1.00 a 
month until the time of the Prom.
This money will be used for the Prom 
and will be collected in this manner 
in order that the cost of the final 
tickets need not be so high. Three 
months must be paid for on or before 
November 27, and also all back dues 
for Freshman and Sophomore years.
The following girls will collect for 
the different departments; Household 
Economics and Science, Catharine 
Shoemaker; Costume Economics,
Helen Daugherty, English Minor and 
Library, Hilda Anderson, Social Work,
Esther Johnson.
Seventy-Five Chosen Photos 
Will be Sent to Judges in 
New York for Selection of 
Six Best
ANNOUNCE PRIZES
LECTURER TO DISCUSS 
PRODUCTION CONTROL
A prominent speaker in the per
son of Mr. Whitney S. Powers will 
give a lecture on the "Control of Pro
duction in the S'cience Building, 
Room 218, on Wednesday, November
Mr. Powers comes to us from the 
Miller, Franklin & Basset Co., with1 tunity for clinical observation of the
I wish to acknowledge and thank 
you kindly for the invitation received 
from my son to attend Fathers Day 
at the Institute and to say that it will 
be a pleasure to me to be present un
less something unforeseen at this 
time arises to stop me.
That is the letter which one enthus
iastic father sent to the president be
fore Fathers Day, a week ago.
They came, they saw, and they were 
convinced.
It was a memorable occasion and 
from tho expressions heard when it 
was all over, it will still be more me
morable in the years to come. Tho 
surprising thing about the event was 
that by far tho majority of those that 
registered at tbe "Y office were from 
out-of-town. The parents of students 
at Carnegie had ovidently been wait
ing for some such occasion, judging 
from the way in which they respond
ed.
Several fathers who were unable to 
come wrote and expressed their re
grets. Tho following is an abstract 
from a typical letter from such a 
father in Alabama:
"Returiiing from New York I find 
your circular letter addressed to the 
fathers of your students. It would 
obviously be Impossible for me to 
turn around again and reach you for 
the date proposed, even If that were 
compatible with my other engage
ments, which it would not be.
* * * My relations with the steel 
trade and with leaders in It, who aro 
acquainted with the character of your 
work and the reputation of your insti
tution led me to approve the selection 
thereof for my youngest son. I felt 
that the location of Carnegie would 
permit what one might call the opporTliat is the question of the. week, 
for it is only five days until the First 
Annual Carnegie Tech Beauty Contest 
draws to a close. The idea, put forth 
by the Thistle as a new part in its 
makeup, has been taken seriously by 
certain persons on the campus, and it 
has been planned for a regular feature 
of the school year, just as the selec
tion for the Queen of Campus Week.
Each girl is asked to help make the 
contest a big success, by having her 
picture taken by the Thistle photo
grapher, Mr. McClay, in Room 149, In
dustries Building, any day this week 
between ten oclock in the morning 
and four in the afternoon. All of tho 
pictures will be printed on tho same 
kind of paper with the samo kind of 
finish, and the entire number will be 
handed over to the contest committee, 
who will turn thom over to the judges 
of the College of Fine Arts for tho 
first judgment. From the total num
ber 75 pictures will be picked, and 
these will be sent to each of the three 
artist judges in New York. Tony 
Sarg, Charles Dana Gibson and Coles 
Phillips are the professional judgos 
for the contest. These men havo of
fered their services to help make tho 
beauty contest a success, so it is 
hoped that the girls will appreciate 
their offer, and show this apprecia
tion by entering the contest.
When each judge lias selected tho 
six most attractive pictures from tho 
group, tho commltteo will tako tho 
ono which has been choson by tho 
most number of judgos and that pic
ture will receive the first prlzo. Tho 
other ilvo prizes will bo awarded in 
similar manner, according to selec
tion.
Tho prizes for tho contest havo 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
M.M. Genius Rampant 
In Revivified Shilling
Attractive and Interesting Is
sue to be Out Soon
BETTER PROTECTION IS
TO BE AFFORDED PUBLIC
IN THEATER IN FUTURE
As the result of tho fire in the 
Little Theater Thursday, two weeks 
ago, the Administration has taken 
action towards installing safety de
vices at the exits,
At the present time the doors are 
locked during a performance. In 
case cf a fire or panic, it would be 
difficult to get them open in time.
The fire proved that a better exit 
system was needed'. New devices 
will be installed and better protec
tion afforded audiences in the futnre.
whom he has been connected for the 
He is a man of val
uable experience and broad education 
in production work.
The McGraw-Hill Publishing Com
pany sought his services in the writ
ing of their book "Production Engi
neering and Cost Keeping in Machine 
Shops.
Mr. Powers is on a lecture tour. He 
is filling engagements at most of the 
technical schools in the East. We are 
fortunate in being afforded an oppor
tunity to hear a man of this type.
His lecture is an illustrated story 
of how a plant increased its produc
tion 69 per cent and reduced its non
productive, labor from 499 to 402 by 
properly planning its work in the fac
tory.
uy the aid of slides, Mr. Powers 
will give a very interesting and edu
cational lecture which should be of in
terest to students, faculty and produc
tion men.
Faculty Member's Remarkable Find 
Results From Parley of Words Unkind
By Carl Gunther.
An accidental discovery of three an
cient motion picture films in the base
ment of the Central Building, bids 
fair to rival the recent opening of 
King Tuts tomb by its startling reve
lations, and the Chemistry Depart
ment, which is now studying these 
rare and valuable relics, pronounces 
them to be of unprecedented signifi
cance.
As is customary in most remark
able findings, the discovery was en
tirely unpremeditated. Mr. Miller, 
the All-American chem prof, and Mr. 
Orbin, who turns off the heat in the 
Dorms on Sunday mornings, wore dis
cussing the relative merits of their 
respective alma maters, Colgate and 
Penn State, while grubbing about the 
basement of the Central Building.
Determined to emphasize his point, 
Mr. Orbin hurled with uncanny ac
curacy the nearest loose object and 
scored a hit. The film, for such was 
the unhappy missile, unwound and the 
dazed Mr. Miller beheld bathing beau
ties frolicking before his eyes. A 
truce was automatically declared to 
permit an intimate investigation, dis
appointing perhaps, but epoch mak
ing.
Twas the Maggie Murphs of 21 giv
ing a May Dance that was first re
vealed and further research disclosed 
tho Yale-Carnegie game of the preced
ing fall, the first Campus Week in
practice of the various industries, in 
and surrounding the city, of those 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Whitehead Episcopal
Club Meets Sunday
Tho first lssuo of tho Shilling, 
Carnoglos literary magazine, will 
appear on tho campus about tho la&t 
wook of this month. It in going to 
bo a vory attractive and inlorostlng 
issue, which aro two oxcollont rea
sons why ovory atudont should pur3 [ chase ono for hlmsolf alono.
" Several short storios havo boon 
turned In, from which tho odltor, 
Anne ICIrker, will select tho bost, for 
publication. Tlioro will probably be 
two stories published; the other ma
terial being sevoral book rovlows, by 
Jane Markell, a short sketch by Carol 
Folght, and several interesting editor
ials and articles.
Thy material is perhaps the best 
ever offered to the students, and is 
bound to prove really enjoyable read
ing. This brings up the question, 
are the students going to give their 
support to the Shilling? Are they go
ing to buy it? We hope so.- 
The Shilling has a very high pur
pose in mind, although it is admit
ted that many faults obscure the 
perfection which they are striving to 
attain. But remember that the Shil
ling is very younggive it a fighting 
(Continued on Page Four.)
On Sunday afternoon, November 
18, at the Church of the Ascension, 
there will be a special meeting of the 
Whitehead Episcopal Club, for the 
purpose of hearing a talk by Rev.
Paul MIcou, the Executive Secretary 
of 'the National Episcopalian Student 
Council. Rev. Micou has been invited 
to Pittsburgh by the Whitehead Club 
in order to give this organization a 
good send off on its work for the curWhen the first issue of the Carnerent school year. The meeting will gie Technical Journal is publishe 
start at 3 p. m., and will be over by on Thursday, November 22, it will 
5:30, when all attending the meeting contain several new ideas which 
can if they so desire, have supper at have been brough about by the imthe Ascension Girls Friendly Society i proved policies of this years staff
Technical Journal Adopts 
New Policies for Year
supper.
(Continued on Page Two.)
INDUSTRIAL GIRLS TO SPEAK 
AT Y. W. C. A. MEETING TODAY
The feature of the Y. W. C. A. 
meeting today at 12:30 will be talks 
given by Sarah White and Celia Vene* 
bush from the Industrial Department 
of the McKeesport Y. W. C. A.
Esther Johnston and Mabel McKee 
met these girls at tho Industrial Con
ference a short time ago and they 
found the girls so interesting that they 
invited them to come and visit the
Each issuo will be found to con
tain articles of more general interest, 
rather than those of interest to only 
a few. TheTechnical Journal, this 
year, is aiming to become an all 
Carnegie publication by having muro 
articles written by Carnegie students 
and alumni.
The co-headline articles of this is
sue will show the wide range of r.uh 
Jects of general interest which will 
bo found In the Technical Journal 
this year. One article discusses a 
new type of prime mover, namely, a 
mercury boiler which has been In
stalled in ono of the moHt upito-date 
plants of tihe country. Tho substance 
of tho other article Is, "How Many 
reshmcn Flunk, and Why?" Tho 
by Dr. W
eludings the stupendous circus pee^e Carnegie Y. W. all day Wed 
rade, Carnegie and his wife greeting 
the students, and other events of 
equally ancient vintage.
(Continued on Pagej Two.)
Carnegie Y. W.
Miss White and Miss Venebush are * latter article was written 
very much Interested in finding out Rittman with the assistance of Alan 
just how college girls Bpend their Bright.
time, and so they will be the guests In order that the staff may carry
out its policies and make this year 
nesday. I a complete success, it will be necesThe Y. W. hopes that all Carnegie Bary for every Carnegie student and
girls will come to the meeting and alumnus to give his most hearty supgreet the visitors. I port and co-operation to tbe Journal.
SCALP AND BLADE TO
HOLD DINNER MEETING
Scalp and Blade will hold a ditinormoetiug at tho Bird Cago Tea Room, 
East Liberty, next Thursday evening 
at six oclock.
This custom was begun last year 
and proved such a success that tlio 
men feel that it is the best way to 
hold a meeting.
All members are urged to be tlioro, 
as some very important business will 
be transacted.
Remember tho tlmo and place1 
Thursday evening at 6 oclock at tho 
Bird Cago Tea Room. A one hundred 
per cent turnout for this affair is de
sired.
ASSESSMENT FOR THE 
JUNIOR PROM MUST BE
PAID THIS WEEK SURE
Tho assessmont Cor tho Junior Proni 
must bo paid this wook. All mon 
wlio aro ratod as Junlors aro expoctod 
to puy this at onco.
The commlttoo wishos to mako this 
tho bost. Juuior Prom ovor held, but 
It will bo liandicapped if tho assossmont is not paid. Pay up, boy!
ARTS BALL TO HAVE 
FAMOUS ORCHESTRA
EXPECT NOTRE 
DAME TO DRAW 
RECORD CROWD
Sale of Seats Indicates That 
Coming Game Will Attract 
Biggest Crowd of Local 
Football Season
RESERVE SEATS NOW
I-Iavo you gotton your roaorvation 
in yot for tho Notro Damo gamo? If 
you havent, you'd bottor hurry, for 
tlioro ia suro to bo a soil out. Every
body has boon rushing in ordors for 
tlckots, so that tho Graduato Managorti Olllco Is fairly Bwampod with 
roquoata.
Tho Pltt-Ponn Stato gamo on 
Thankaglvlng haa alwaya boon tho ono 
big gamo for all Pittaburgn football 
fana to turn out on maaao to aoo. 
Howovor, from tho intoroat shown, it 
looks aa if tho Notro Damo gamo ia 
going to pull tho rocord crowd of tho 
soason iit Forbea Field.
Notro Damo haa ono of tho boat aggrogatlona in tho United Statoa. It 
haa an on viable rocord which no othor 
toam at tho proaont tlmo can equal 
that of having only loat ono gamo in 
tho paat four yoara. Tho, allowing 
that tho toam haa mado ao far thla 
yoar, Indlcatoa that Notro Damo will 
bn tho triumphant toam of tho coun
try.
Studonts, Alumni and Pittsburghers 
In gonoral should realize tho groat 
opportunity afforded thom in being 
glvon tho chanco to aoo this wonder 
toam of tho docado in action.
And dont think for a moment that 
tho plucky Tartan Isn't going to put 
up a atlff light. At that gamo youll 
aoo tho boat display of football that 
that toam of our haa ovor put forth 
Wally Stoffon la a bit poaalmlatic, 
aa usual, as to tho outcomo of tho 
gamo, but hoa auro that Ills toam la 
going to givo tho Irish ono of tho 
worst fights that thoy havo ever had. 
Our toam will havo had two wooka 
rest aftor the gamo with Detroit and 
should bo In tho pink of condition for 
a tough atrugglo. Just watch tho 
Scotch and Irlah mix.
Make up your mind to tho fact that 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Football-less Football 
Dance to be Given Sat,
Although there la no game to be 
played this coming Saturday a footbal dance willl nevertheless be held. 
The Union has a capacity of several 
hundred, and promises to accommo
date even more If necessary.
The College Imps have been en
gaged for the occasion, and will play 
from 9 oclock until 12, thus giving 
the dormitory girls enough time to be 
rushed up to Skibo and back again 
by 12:30.
All preparations are complete for 
an enjoyable evening. There is no ex
cuse for, your not being there. In the 
first place you wont be tired after the 
game, for there Is no game. Conse
quently a big crowd has been pre
pared for and Is expected.
OXFORD STUDENTS MAY NOT
ROLL HOOPS, TEACHER SAYS
In M. M. Assembly laat week, Mias 
Ethel Spencer, an Engllah lnatructor 
of M. M. College, who spent laat year 
studying at Oxford University, Eng
land, spoke about her college life 
there. The Magglo Murphs were in
terested in learning that Oxford stu
dents are not permitted to roll hoopa 
down tho main street, nor to play 
marbles on tho library stops, and that 
vacations between terms aro six 
wooka long. It Is only since tho war 
that women students at Oxford have 
bcon granted degroos.
A membership drive was begun for 
tho Carnegie Guild, and an earnest 
plea was made to mako the Guild an 
Ali-Carnegio organization and to put 
it on a firm financial foundation.
And the far-renowned beautlea of 
Carnegie were Invitedyes entreated 
to come out for tho Beauty Contest.
Garber Davis, Producers of 
Victor and Columbia Re
cords Secured
I-Ioar ye, hoar yo, opon wide your 
ears and listou to tho first news of 
the annual arts ball. Tis but a 
short timo till tho nocturnal frolic of 
tho llvo arts. Only twelve weeks yot 
remain in which to arrange for this 
magnificent ovout.
Donald Mawhlnneyi, general chair
man of tho arts bail, has appointed 
tho lioads of tho various committees, 
and preparations aro well under way. 
The subject of tho ball has been 
undor discussion for several weeks, 
but nothing definite has yot been de
cided. Several vory good sugges
tions have boon offered, among them 
bomg ono of having the ball ropresont a futuristic period donotlng tho 
dress and costumes most llkoly to bo 
seen In tho yoar 400 A. D. Tlio final 
decision as to ilio character of tho 
ball will probably bo mado in tho 
noxt fow weoks.
Tho dancers will bo ontortalnod 
by tho vory bost music obtainublo, 
furnished by tho wldoly-famod Gar* 
bor-Davis Orchostra. Thla orchostra 
has won nationwide popularity 
through tho production ot thoir Vic
tor and Columbia pnonograph roc* 
orda.
The muslo last yoar waa unsatis
factory duo to tho pouuliar ringing 
olloct caused by tho acouatic proper
ties of tho building, but efforts aro 
bolng mado to romody that In tho 
noxt ball.
Tho post-ball danco hold tho even
ing following tho Arts ball will bo 
undor tho direction of David Garber 
(Maialo for thla danco will also bo fur 
nl.shodi by tho Gurbor-Davis Orchos
tra.
Tho Interior Docoratlon class, un
der tho supervision of Professor Sol 
lam, la making tho docoratlons. Tho 
doslgn and construction of frames 
aro undor tho dlroction of E. II, 
Couso, will lo tho supporta l'or tho 
docoratlons1 wll be handled by Ray
mond Harkloss. Tho system of light
ing Is bolng worked out by Ilardlnjj 
Thayer.
Tho show In tho thoator and tho 
gonoral entertainment will bo direct
ed byi illJorbort Polosloi 1*. H, Sload 
has been appointed assistant chair* 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
BUTTON DESIGNERS ARE 
REQUESTED TO GET BUSY
THISTLE SALES 
CAMPAIGN NOW 
IN FULL SWING
Salesmen Will Canvass A11 
theSchools and Dormitories 
for a Period Lasting Four 
Days, Beginning Yesterday
PICTURES VERY GOOD
Bang! The opening gun in tho 
1924^ Thistle sales campaign has 
been fired.
The tlmo, widely heralded by signs 
and posters bearing such mystifying 
expressions as "Aro You Superstiti
ous? and 1316, is atl hand. 
Watch for the salesman!
Evory person on tho campus will 
bo approached by the active sales
man, and asked to subscribe to tho 
best yoar book over put out by a 
Junior class at Carnegie. If you dont 
believe that, ask Jerry Slyelies 
truthful. Remember what was said, 
at the general assembly.
If you havent mado up your mind 
to subscribe today, or havent tho 
wherewith to mako that first pay
ment, don't be discouragoda full 
week lifts been allotted for tho sales 
campaign which will come to a close 
at 4:30 p. m., Friday, November IP.
Tho sales work will bo conducted 
somewhat along tho following lines. 
In each collogo tlioro will bo two 
sales representatives with the ex
ception of M. M., whero thero will 
bo ono, Thoir names aro: Carol
Folght, M. M.; O. W. Will and Eildio 
Wright, Engineers; John Doughsa 
and Davo Garbor, Arts; M. D. ICalIolz and Cliff Zinn, Industries. Each 
Thistle salesman will be distin
guished by a ribbon (as woll as ny 
subscription blanks.) At tho uoou 
hour each day, thero will also bo 
aalosrrion. posted at the various fratornttios and dormitorloa. Additional 
publicity will bo given the cam
paign by uniquely doHlgned posters 
Judiciously dlalirlbutod about tho 
onnnpus. Dont fail to obsorvo those 
posters, for oacli will hint at tho 
contents of tho book anc1 Interost Is 
cortaln to lio aroused In this manner.
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Graphica Christmas 
Cards Now On Sale
Eight Varieties of Greetings 
May be Secured
Designs for tho now Carnogio Rec
ognition Button aro rather slow com
ing In. Contestants aro reminded 
that tho competition closos ou the 
twonty-socoud of Novombor instead 
of tho llftoonth aa orlgnaaly an
nounced. For tho benollt of thoso who 
did not road tho announcement in tho 
Tartan of October 30th, tho rulos of 
tho contest will be ropoatod.
1. Tho submitted design must bo 
drawn to such a scalo that tho dotalls 
will not bo lost when it is roducod to 
approximately % of an Inch in diam
eter.
2. The four colors, representing
tho four colleges, with the C similar 
to tho ono on the Thistle, design or 
any other idea which is distinctly Car
negie may bo used, but the block C
now used on tho Varsity Clan Pin
should not be imitated.
3. The committee reserves the
privilege of retaining any or all of 
the designs, or of changing any de
tails of the accepted designs in mak
ing up the final pin or button.
4. Prizes ranging from $2.00 to 
$15.00 each, will be awarded to tho 
contestants submitting the best de
signs.
Alumni and faculty are urged to en
ter this competition, for it is open to 
them as well as to the students. They 
are again reminde'd that the contest 
closes November 22.
Tlio Graphloa sale of Christmas 
cards begins this wook and cards may 
bo ordered from any Graphloa man on 
tho campus or In tho Printing De
partment at any tlmo, Tho sale will 
continue until two wooks boforo tho 
Christmas vacation.
Tho designs ot tho cards printed by 
tho Graphica this yoar aro vory at
tractive. There will be olght greet
ings to choose from this yoar, llvo 
cards and throo folders. Two of tlio 
cards aro distinctive of Carnogio 
Tech, a grootlng many of tho students 
havo boon waiting to soo for many 
yoars. Most of tho doslgns aro by 
Arts Collogo students.
Tho cards will bo on salo In all of 
tho buildings 'ftnd in tho Commons 
during tho noon hour and can bo ordorod at any tlmo in tho Dopartmont 
of Printing, Room 122, Industries. 
Graphics members will be out in 
force as salesmon and can be found 
anywhere on tho campus, in the dor
mitories, or fraternity houses.
Posters and Tartan articles will an
nounce tho progresa of the campaign.
PRELIMINARY TICKETS
FOR JUNIOR BANQUET
ARE BEING SOLD NOW
The preliminary tickets for tlie 
Junior Banquet have been placed on 
3alo and will be sold throughout the 
week. The charge Is one dollar.
Everyone who expects to attend 
tihe banquet should get one of these 
tickets, as no tickets will be sold 
to those who do not have a prelimin
ary ticket.
Tho Juniors expect to have the 
best banquet everone you cant af
ford to missso get thal ticket to
day.
Senior Commercials and Civils Play 
In Hectic Struggle Next Saturday
By Dave Schelnman
It has been definitely settled that 
Saturday the 17th of November, will 
bo tho date for tho rectlc struggle 
for the football leadership ot Car
negie Tech and all points up. The Im
pending fray la to ho between tho 
Sonlor Civils and Commercials. Both 
elevens aro In tho plnlc of condition, 
although claiming their rivals to bo 
colored blue and yollow.
Tho teams havo spont long and ard
uous hours In practicing for tills Im
portant battle, and each la confident 
of tho outcomo. Tho Clvlla havo put 
In more than two weeks In surveying 
the course which their great backs ex
pect to take through the commercial 
lineIf Indeed that lino can be broken 
through. Some of the more ardent 
Civils even wish to erect brldgework,
but woro convinced that tho Pitt dents 
were considered unethical.
Tho Commercials havo spent their 
time In perfecting their already great
ly dovolopod line. Aftor many stren
uous hours of practice with tho debat
ing coach, tho lino Is now considered 
Impregnable. All tho Commercials 
aro convinced that tho CIvlls cannot 
run their onds aa tho Commercial lino 
Is endless. During tho past wook tho 
Commercials have boon carrying 
shovol handles around to toughen 
thoir musclos. With Dr. Rittman as 
roferco, tho Commercials |aro sure 
that thoy cannot lose.
Although thero la intense interest 
In the game, the betting has been 
very light. The Civils dare not Bhow 
any monoy for fear the Commercials 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1923
Carnip Rattan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute oi 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In tho Postofllce of Pittsburgh a second-class matter.
H. F. SIMPSON ............................................................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telephono Sclienloy 0143
W. CUNNINGHAM .............................................................................. Business Manager
Telophono Schonloy 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schonloy 9189
FRED C. SMITH.....................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................AsslBtant Managing Editor
SARA MAID EVERETT .......................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone Schonloy 9320
MARK S. DOWNES ...........................................................................   Associate Editor
H. H. WILSON ......................................................................................... Associate Editor
W. WINNING ....................................................................................................... Nows Editor
Telophono Schonley 0070
SE TE HILLAMA EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE MNOD Editor
Telephone Schonloy 9070
A. S. ANDREWS .................................................................................................................................................. ......................... News Editor
Telephone Schonloy 9211
E. C. FRAZIER ............................................................................................ Athletic Editor
Telophono Schonloy 9143
R. W. SLEATII ................................................................................................ Photographer
W. K. .11'JFFREY ...................................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR........................................................................................................ Art Editor
DON GARDNER .......................................................... ............................... Special Writer
A. E. KROail...................................................................................................Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY ................................................................................. Circulation Manager
B. BROUDY ....................................................................... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. GIBSON.......................................................................AsslBtant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, L. II. Harris, K. Fulmer, M. D. 
Kaifelz, Wilma Stlnor, Carol Folght, J. M. Early, W. F. Kaufman, F. L.
Wagner, N. C. WoHor, D. F. Macaulay, V. R. Smith, C. A. Lundqulst, D. M.
Davidson, E. E. Kearns, F. W. McClelland, M. W. Gay, Rosemary McCamb ridge.__________________________________________________________________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao, G. 10. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rassbach.
* BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Mol.ro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, E. L. 
HNNYNDB J. 1-1. Seibert, I. E. Krldler, A. Barbrow.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho
Managing Editor for tho make up.__________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news items must bo in tho studont 
postolilce boforo 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Olllco hoursDally 12:30- 1:20.______________
WATCH THE SHILLING
To be or not to be seems to be tlie question. This year the 
SHILLING will be on the cnmpus. Next yearwell, thats another 
question. Only time will tell, and time will be influenced mightily 
by the 'performance of this year. In other words, the SHILLING 
will be able to blame no one but themselves and their 1923-dissues it 
they fail to appear upon the campus in 1924-5.
With such a condition facing them, the present staff has prom
ised a much better magazine. Efforts will be made to select and 
write stories which will appeal to the students as a whole. .Invita
tions will be extended to members of all four schools to join the staff, 
thereby making it a publication distinctive of Carnegie Tech, rather 
than of Margaret Morrison. Efforts will be made to bolster tlie busi
ness end in order to enlist the whole-hearted support of the Student 
Council, and to justify the support of their subscribers in as many 
ways as possible. In other words, the present staff will do all in 
their power to cater to the students, who arc their natural bene
factors.
The staff has promised these things, and as long as they make an 
honest endeavor to live up to them, Pi Delta Epsilon, National Jour
nalistic /Honorary of Carnegie, will back them. At present, since 
there Booms to be a determination 011 the part ol! the SHILLING 
board to do these things, this organization is co-operating, and their 
aid will be forthcoming in every way possible.
In tho past the CA11N1SQIE TAUT AN has taken the stand of op
posing and doing nil in its power to run down the SHILLING. This 
yonr tilings aro different -tlio CARNEGIE TARTAN is doing all in 
its power to aid, but only so far as the,SHILLING succeeds in rais
ing its standard. A little improvement at first is a start, and if even 
a little is made with each following issue, it will not lack the support 
ol! the CARNEGIE TARTAN.
But, wo repeat: Its up to the SHILLING staff to do their
stuff.
Tho first issuo appears upon the campus immediately after 
Thanksgiving watch for it and help give it a good start on a suc
cessful yoar.
And this to tho Kl I I'M/I NO staff make not the words of the 
CARNEGil!) TARTAN ridiculous!
To the students, wo say:
HUY A SHILLING 1
OARNEGIE DAY
We shall celebrate Carnogio Day on Friday, November the twen1y-l;lnyd. The exercises will bo held at the Music Hall at eleven 
oclock. This is an occasion in which the student spirit should be 
at its highest and best. It is primarily a student celebration. We 
should all want to do honor to our Founder, and we should all want 
to pay our respects to Prince Caetani, who is to be the orator for the 
occasion. I doubt whether it would have been possible to secure a 
more interesting or more picturesque speaker. You will be able to 
read of his career in another column of the Carnegie Tartan. This 
letter is merely t<*> bring to your attention the importance of the 
day and to express the hope that each student in the institution will 
feel that he or she has a share in making the celebration of Mr: Car
negies birthday a success.
Very sincerely yours,
THOMAS S. BAKER.
SIGNS OF THE PAST, THE PRESENT AND THE FUTURE
Most people were able to make signs before they could talk. 
With the passage of time most of us let this faculty degenerate somewhat, but, happily we have not all done this, and so we find miscel
laneous signs here, there and everywhere about the campus. This is 
as it should be. It pays to advertise, Strike the iron while it is 
hot, are well-known proverbs, but it should be noticed that the 
proverb does not tell us to continue striking after the iron has be
come cold. The various signs seen Suspended about tho campus in 
advance of various occasions are commendable, but the powers that 
put them up should see that the signs are removed, when their time 
of usefulness is passed. The ludicrous effect on strangers visiting 
1 he campus after the W. & ,T. game, and seeing a sign : BEAT WASI1- 
JEFF, is apparent. This makes a very bad impression and should be 
and can bo avoided. Lot us hope that those responsible will take 
hoed, and remove tho signs as soon, as their usefulness is passed in
stead of allowing them to counteract what good they have done.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY AND TUESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 14, 15, .17 AND 20
The Faith Ilcnlcr........................................8115 1\ M Little Theater
FRIDAY, NOVEM.1U5R 16
Industries Senior Tea Dance.................................. 4:30 1 M Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17
Football Dance...............................................................;);()() P. M., Union
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY 
NOVEMBER 19,'20 AND 21
Dr. John Erskinc Lectures.....................4:30 1>. M., Little Arts Theater
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER. 23
Carnegie Day Celebration...................................11:00 A. M., Music Hall
Scholarship Dance.........................................................9-00 p. j.r Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24
Notre Dame-Carnegie Football....,...................2:30 P M Forbes Field
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29
Thankgiving Recess.....................................No classes until December 3
I*
DRUETTES OUSTED 
BY SENIOR GIRLS
Mortar Board Votes Against 
Starting Local Chapter of 
Sophomore Honorary
That there will be no Dinettes at 
Carnogio 1 tho result of a vote taken 
at a meeting of tho Mortar Board, 
Girls Senior Honorary, Tuesday.
A 'Sophomore Honorary for girls, 
which would correspond with the 
mens organization, tho Druids, has 
boon considered for some time. But 
the Mortar Board is tlie first student 
organization to take up the move
ment.
"The chief reasons for opposing a 
Sophomore Honorary, said Miss 
Helen Johnson, president of the Sen
ior Socioty, "Is tho inability to know 
tlie Freshman. An honorary of this 
typo requires leadership as well as 
scholarship of Its members. Tho 
average Freshman does not havo tlio 
opportunity to develop the former 
quality. So, for this reason it is dif
ficult to select the' most deserving 
girls.
Although the proposed chapter of 
Dinettes was favorably acted upon, a 
similar organization for Junior girls 
Is being contemplated.
The negative decree of Mortar 
Bonrd will cause great disappoint
ment among the co-eds of tho Fresh
man and S'ophomore classes, as there 
is no lncentivo for greater achieve
ments until tho Junior year.
DRAMATS TO PRESENT 
THE FAITH HEALER
Interesting Program 
Marks Gen. Assembly
"Tlie Faith Healer, ' byW. V. 
Moody, opens for a two weeks run 011 November 1-1. The play is an 
earnest endeavor 011 the part of the 
author to show the great struggle that 
takes place between material and 
spiritual forces, establishing the be
lief that love doeB not weaken the 
oxercise of the spirit, but rather en
hances it.
The plot evolves about the charac
ter of Michaolis, who sees a vision of 
the Living Christ, and thereafter, him
self begins to work miracles of heal
ing. He loses his great power when 
lie comes into eontact with the world, 
but finally, through love and selfsacrifice, lie regains Ills faith and 
power to cure.
The following, under the competent 
direction of Chester Wallace, meri 
toriously fill the roles: Ilardie Al
bright as Ulrich Michaolis, Mary 
Slcurkay as Rhoda Williams, Jack 
Daniels ns Matthew Beeler, Dorothy 
Schell as Mary Beeler, Claire Schellhaso as Martha Beeler, Virginia Wil
liams as Annie Beeler, Harry Mervis 
as Dr. Littlefield, Donald Marye as 
Rev. Culpeppor, I-Iorbort Polesie as 
Uncle Abo, an old Negro; Matthew 
Smith as a dumb Indian boy, and 
Francos Davis as a young woman.
Tho Freshman class of tho depart
ment nmkos its debut as the mob of 
sick people, Booking to bo cured by 
tho faith hoaler. Michaolis and Rhoda 
will be played by Austin Coughlino 
and Zabol Davis, respectively, later 
In tho run.
Permission to produce tho play has 
boon gran tod by Mrs. M. V. Moody
Junior High School Girls 
Tour Carnegies Campus
Under tho ausplcos of tho Ameri
can Association of University Women, 
Carnogio Tech sent Invitations to 
Pittsburgh High Schools and to high 
schools In this vicinity to ask thoir 
Junior girls to come and visit Car
negie Toeli, Novombor 10.
Carnogloa cordial Invitation was uccopied and about 200 High School 
Junior girls assembled at tho Little 
Theater In tho College of Fine ArtB, 
at 2:30 oclock, Saturday afternoon, 
whero an interesting program was 
presented.
Doan Mary Brown welcomed the 
girls; Director Mary B. Breed of Mar
garet Morrison, next told of the col
lege life of Carnegie girls; and a mem
ber of the American Association of 
University Women, and a member of 
the College of Fine Arts gave short 
talks on the advantages of a college 
education. The Glee Club of Marga
ret Morrison furnished the musical 
part of the program.
Then the girls were conducted on a 
tour of the campus to see the build
ings, studio, and laboratories. When 
the tour ended in the Margaret Mor 
rison Recreation Hall, the Womens 
Athletic Association put 011 a stunt 
and refreshments were served.
FACULTY MEMBER'S REMARKABLE FIND RESULTS FROM
PARLEY OF WORDS UNKIND
(Continued From Page One)
The films are now under process of 
reconstruction at the capable hands 
of Charles Earnest, the juvenile motion-plcture operator of tlie Chemistry 
Department, who is achieving remarkablo rosults ni\d promisos to havo his 
work ready for public prosontation In 
the near futuro,
Tho plcturos will bo shown at somo 
futuro Solonce Assombly and will croate quite a furore, indood negotiations 
aro undor way with tho R. O. T. C. 
to obtain suitable guards for this oc
casion, and admission of a dollar and 
a half or two dollars will bo charged 
to avoid overcrowding.
Tlio Pantamount Plcturos aro al
ready contracting to uso tho girls 
gym scene In their new pluperfect supor-produotlon "The Throe-Cornored 
Triangle featuring Florla Hawnsum, 
and tho Cafe Nows Service has re
served all rights to tho scones depict
ing Uncle Andy.
No Senior should miss this display 
for be may recognize his own physiog
nomy among the others110 one else 
willand can once more cheer his 
old football heroes as they battle des
perately against the mighty Yalf 
eleven. Ask for it at your local thea 
ter.
It is our intention to devote a 
portion of the column this week to JVT. M. C. Stringers and Newcommjents upon the1924 Thistle
HaleB campaign.man Furnish Entertainment
Wo assume in the first place that 
you attended the General Assembly 
and in the second place that you 
have read The Carnegie Tartan. I 
Then you are aware that the year j 
book holds ai very prominent place j 
in tho affairs of tho week.
Does the thoughtfulness of the I 
Thistle Board strike you in dedicat
ing tlie 1924 Thistle to our late grad
uate manager of athletics, Frank 
I-Iaaren? It Is a pleasure to com
mend the board for their excellent 
judgment in thus honoring the mem
ory! of Mr I-Iaaren.in such a lasting 
manner. '
It is within thet scope of this col
umn to criticise with impunity, and 
here's where some Seniors and fra
ternity men come in for their share. 
Strict censorship prohibits our ex
pressing our lull opinion of men 
who neglect getting their Thistle pic
tures taken promptly. Such negli 
gence is not only handicapping the 
Thistle board now, but will detract 
Prom the appearance of the book 
when it comes out.
That for the Thistle.
TIow did you make out on your 
mid-semester exams.? The grades 
are due November 10. Hence, if you 
have a few exams, to take yet, bone 
a little more and help your final 
grades.
Hark! All ye Plebes who ever 
throw a :basket ball through the iron 
ring. Go over to the field house 
and join the practice squads. Who 
knows?there maiy! be another An-' 
derson or Gibson in your midst.
Since basket ball talk is beginning 
to be heard around the campus, our 
thoughts turn to the new gym, and 
the possibility of its use for our im 
porlant games. Along this line, how 
many could describe reasonably how 
much lias been finished on the struc
ture? Not many. Some day soon, 
go up ' tlie little hill and take a 
look. There may be a surprise in 
store for you.
Overheard on Woodlawn avenue: 
Here comes a good lookin fellow, 
Mazio. What or doin today, flirtin 
or bein Ind'ignant?"
INTER-SORORITY RULES 
FOR RUSHING ADOPTED
As a result of tho Inter-fraternity 
rushing rulos the Inter-Sorority Coun
cil lias now formulatod a Blmilar set 
of regulations for sororities.
Tho Inter-Sorority Council passed 
the following rushing rules:
Advanced  Standing students: 
Shall be rushed from beginning of 
somoster until tho Monday after 
Thanksgiving vacation on which day 
thoy may bo pledged.
Freshmen Students: Freshmen
girls may bo rushed only throo distinct 
instancoB or at three distinct func
tions. Ono function to bo hold tfc 
first Bomostor and two functions to bo 
hold tho second somostor. Tlio date 
and kind of a function to bo given 
may bo docldod by each individual 
sorority. Tlio bids aro to bo passed 
out through tlio olllco of tlio Doan of 
Women 011 tlio Monday following 
Campus Wook and are to bo returned 
through the olllco of tho Doan of 
Women 011 tho following Thursday.
JEAN FRANK,
Socy. Inter-Sorority Council.
CARNEGIE AND DETROIT U.
TIE IN TOUGH GAME
(Continued From Page One) 
Robby returned it to the ten-yard line. 
This punt resulted in a ninety-yard 
gain for the Detroit team.
Soon after this, however, the teams 
ciianged goals, and the Skibos imme
diately started an advance which 
could not be stopped. On a fake endaround play, which had been gaining 
ground consistently for Carnegie, 
Brumbaugh went through the line for 
fifty yards before the safety man 
stopped him long enough for another 
Detroit to bring him down. Robert
son, Brumbaugh and Mefort then car
ried the ball to the one-yard line, from 
where Brumbaugh carried it over. 
Comfort, 011 the sidelines on account 
of injury, was sent in to kick a place
ment, but Detroits linemen sifted 
through and blocked his attempt.
With the wind still in favor of the 
Tartans in the third period, they start
ed another march up the field, but the 
home team stiffened on their own tenyard line and held. Play continued 
in the Detroit territory until the final 
period when, with the wind now in 
her favor, Detroit gained on an ex
change of punts. Anderson attempt
ed to punt from his own five yard line 
but the ^Detroit linemen hurried his 
kick and it went to the left side of 
tho flold, whence Vrooland returned it 
for a touchdown. It was tho only good 
offonslvo play flashed by the Dotroitor In tho entlro gamo.
U. of D. Carnogio Toch
Cassidy............. L. E................Goodwin
IIcu*voy............. L. E. .. .P. Anderson
Flannery........... L. G.............................Zelt
Barrott.................. C.......................Taylor
Bowler................ R. G.......................Gilbert
Maher................... R. T.........................Yoder
Buchor................ R. E.......................Mefort
Caniff.................. Q. B. ..(C.) Robtson
Brett.................... L. 11.....................Bastian
Vreeland................R. H.............J. Anderson
Welch (C)----- F. B.............Brumbaugh
Score:
U. of D....................0 0 0 6G
Carnegie .................0 6 0 06
Touchdowns: Brumbaugh, Vree
land. RefereeJ. H. Durfee (Wil
liams); umpireDan Dougherty (W. 
& J.); field judgeJames Moffat 
(Princcton); head linesmanJ. Lipski (Chicago).
The third General Assembly of the 
year, held in the Music Hall on No
vember 13, was enlivened by enter
tainment furnished by Johnson and 
Daniels, Newman, and some of the 
stringers from the Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College.
"Knickers," a novel stunt featuring 
Johnson and Daniels, received quite 
an ovation. Obie Newman, the inim
itable "Mistah Noom, delivered a se
ries of songs, which were heavily ap
plauded. A group of the M. M. 
Stringers gave a number of interest
ing selections, completing the enter
tainment program.
Coming before the Notre Dame 
football game, the Assembly afforded 
a splendid opportunity to rouse up 
the old Carnegie spirit which has lain 
somewhat dormant since the memor
able Pitt-Carnegie game on October 
27.
Announcements concerning the No
tre Dame game were greeted with 
much enthusiasm, indicating the in
tense feeling existing over this game.
TARTAN HOLDS JUBILEE; 
STAFF MEETS AT S. A. E.
The largest staff in the history of 
the Tartan gathered Sunday night at 
the S. A. E. house to discuss ways and 
means and to hearken to such sage 
advice as ye editors might see fit to 
disburse.
With habitual promptitude the 
meeting was called to order a half an 
hour late by Editor Simpson who 
made a very interesting, well punc
tuated introduction and called upon 
his assistants Miss Everett and 
Messrs. Arnold, F. C. Smith, A. S. An
drews, and Winning. These on the 
whole responded with humorous and 
witty remarks concerning the possi
bility of becoming a star reporter on 
fifteen minutes a day, Miss Everett 
making what was undoubtedly the 
most appreciated speech of tlier even
ing.
The proposition of undertaking to 
publish the long belated Song Book 
was heartily supported and a commit
tee was appointed to investigate the 
feasibility of this project.
The meeting adjourned to attack the 
puppies perspiring in the kitchen and 
soon a pleasant gurgling of cider ac
companied Steve Kovacks Collegians 
to the tune of Si McNodd.
At 11 the happy party broke up 
promising to meet again next Thurs
day and gratefully thanked the S. A. 
E.s for their kind hospitality.
SENIOR DRESS DISCUSSED
AT SENIOR CLASS MEETING
Tlie Industries Senior class meeting 
was held 011 Tuesday, November G. 
Tho main topic of discussion was a 
distinctive dross for Industry Seniors. 
Different plans were suggested and 
discussed but, 110 final conclusion was 
arrived at. The subject will be car
ried over until the next meeting whon 
some action Is expected to be taken 011 tho matter.1
Aftor a brief discussion on some 
other business, tho meeting was ad
journed.
SENIOR COMMERCIALS AND 
CIVILS PLAY IN HECTIC
STRUGGLE NEXT SATURDAY
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
will talco It away from them. Thero 
may be some truth in this, as Pro
fessor Ely wras observed in deep con
versation with several of the leading 
Senior Commercial financial men, in
cluding Enos Jiolinston, and Abe Gol
den.
To an Impartial observer, the game 
looks to be a 50-50 proposition. The 
Civils, it is true, have the benefit of 
experience having an average attend
ance at Carnegie Tech of slightly over 
five years, to the Commercial aver
age of about four and three-quarter 
years. But 011 the other hand the 
Commercials can offset this experi
ence by one of the heaviest lines that 
has ever been seen on a football field. 
Paucity of brains is about equal on 
both sides.
It is rumored that Professors Ritt
man and Stanton will play for their 
respective teams. If this is true it 
will be a blow to the Commercial 
hopes, as they will lose their referee. 
The Commercials are boasting that 
Professor Geckeler is outlining their 
plays, but the Civils have induced the 
English Department to outline theirs. 
May the best team win.
Civils Line-up Commercials 
Annette Kellerman ....Aileen Riggin 
Water Buoy 
Curves and Earthworks.. .Mechanics 
Drawbacks
C. N. Hollingsworth____No Tackle is
Entirely Right 
Right Tackle
Al Minetti ...............................Bill Fencil
Jeer Leader
Paul Schucker ..................Atwood Yost
Vesuvius Blair 
Shovel Bearer
Referee... .Dr. Rittman
Mercy ....................................  West Penn
Hospital
Rus Horn
Ambulance Drivor
English Dept....................Prof. Geckeler
 Tactition
Hugh Sprinkle ...........Tommy Griggs
Football Player
Hugh Garbett..............W. K. Sheppard
Pess Agent
Gunlelfinger ..................................................
Kicker
MPORTANT SOPHOMORE
MEETING IN M. M. FRIDAY
The Margaret Morrison Sophomores 
will have a most important class 
meeting in the "Rec Hall on Fri
day at 12:45.New things will be 
brought before the class and a prize 
will be awarded.
Not long ago, there apepared in the 
daily papers of the country an article 
by an eminent college professor berat
ing the influence of automobiles upon 
those students fortunate, or unfortun
ate, enough to have one at school 
with them.
Needless to say, the professor was 
not one of the Carnegie faculty. The 
difficulties of a vast majority of us 
here lie in quite another direction, 
and, though it may at times be diffi
cult to see it that way, it is for the 
Good of Carnegie that such is the 
case.
This brings us to a consideration of 
one of the greatest factors working 
For the Good of Carnegie 011 the 
campus, namely, the Employment Bu
reau. Without the help of that 
agency, a large number of students 
would not be able to remain in school, 
and many, more would find the "sleddim; a good deal harder. Many stu
dents, of course, obtain work without 
the aid of the bureau, while other ob
tain their first work there, then be
come acquainted and shift for them
selves.
There are, however, over 200 men 
who avail themselves with any de
gree of constancy of the service of the 
bureau, but this fact makes it so 
much more surprising to learn that 
during last year, a total of $51,209.85 
was earned through the bureau by 
day school men working in spare 
time.
The variety of work covered is 
equally astounding to one unacquaint
ed with the work of the bureau. The 
kinds of work and the amount earned 
on such in dollars during last year 
follows:
Attendants, 3,535; advertising so
licitors, 16G; carpenters, 118; chauf
feurs, 2,613; civil engineers, 178; 
chemical work, 193; clerical work, 
3,255; draftsmen, 2,062; electrical
work, 316; gardeners, 66; handymen, 
1,500; house work, 779; hospital 
(transfusion donors), 865; messen
gers, 76; miscellaneous, 5,819; musi
cians, 80; painters, 208; photograph
ers, 210; printers, 276; room and 
board, 860; salesmen, 809; steel work, 
1,796; tutors, 273; teachers, 552; 
ushers, 47; waiters, 24,598.
It will be noticed that the girls are 
not at all represented in this state
ment. A separate account of their 
work will be given in a later issue.
Surely, when one of last years 
graduates, who was an exception, it 
is true, but none the less real for all 
that, could in four years earn $4,060.00 
and an Engineering degree, it is a 
definite proof that Carnegie is still 
true to the intentions of her founder.
At the present time about fifty 
men are earning all their expenses 
through the bureau, while doubtlessly 
an equally large or greater number is 
duplicating that unaided.
Carnegie is justified in being proud 
of_ men who will take themselves so 
seriously and who desire an education 
so much that they are willing .to 
work, while the rest of us are playing 
and dancing. It is very definitely For 
the Good of Carnegie that they are 
here, because they appreciate so much 
more what our Alma Mater is doing 
for them and for us all. It is queer,
I but true, that  nothing worth having 
' comes easy. Those working their 
way through school, are getting some
thing very much worth while.
Yours, For the Good of Carnegie.
ALL BEAUTY CONTESTS
PHOTOGRAPHS MUST BE
TAKEN THIS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.) 
been selected, and they will be pre
sented to the girls at some time after 
the contest, either at a General As
sembly, or at a special gathering in 
the Little Theater for this purpose. 
Each girl, aside from winning a prize, 
will have her picture printed on a sep
arate page of the Thistle, in the Beau
ty Section, which has been set aside 
for this purpose.
The prizes are as follows:
First Prize: A loving cup, which
will rotate annually, to be donated for 
this purpose. In addition to tlie cup, 
Mr. McClay, the photographer has of
fered a 12x14 tinted portrait of the 
winner.
Second Prize: One copy of The
Thistle, and in addition, a nicely fin
ished portrait of the girl who wins 
second place.
Third Prize : One copy of The This
tle.
Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Prizes: 
will be mounted prints of the pictures 
of the winners of the respective 
places.
Dean Brown has voiced lier. ap
proval of the contest, afid she thinks 
it is a splendid idea, inasumch as it 
is conducted on the free-clmnce pol
icy. There can be no politics con
nected with the contest, for the edi
tor does not know the entrants, and 
the judges will not havo seen them, 
therefore, the chances are merely 
based upon the pictures, and since the 
pictures aro all taken by the same 
photographer, and finished alike, the 
winner is certainly deserving of the 
prize.
For those who need an inducement, 
the slogan of the photographers has 
been "Give your friends something 
they cannot buy, and that is -a sec
ond point for the contest. Christmas 
is near at hand, and pictures make 
lovely presents. Mr. McClay will 
gladly furnish additional prints, suit
able for gifts, so it is not merely the 
first shot, but the follow through that 
counts.
The committee, the, Thistle board, 
and the editor have collectively and 
separately expressed wishes that the 
contest might be a success, and they 
leave it up to the girls, for it is they 
who can make it successful this year, 
and a regular campus feature, or it is 
they who can kill the whole idea.
As a matter of personal interest, 
th girls of the College of Fine Arts 
have shown great interest in the mat
ter, and much credit is due Edith 
Shultis for her efforts in pushing the 
idea along.
HAVE YOU HAD YOUR PICTURE 
TAKEN?
WHITEHEAD EPISCOPAL
CLUB MEETS SUNDAY
(Continued From Page 'One.l 
This club is beginning its first year 
of actual work, and the message 
which Rev. Micou has to deliver will 
therefore be of especial interest to 
all Episcopalians of Carnegie Tech. 
He is a very interesting speaker, and 
is enthusiastically interested in his 
work among the students of his 
church in the American colleges.
Invitations are being sent to all 
neighboring colleges, and it is expect
ed a delegation will be present from 
each. It is practically certain that 
there will be large delegations from 
Pitt, Wash-Jeff, and the Pennsylvania 
College for Women.
Mark this dateNovember 18 
down in your date book, and bo there, 
all ye Episcopalians!
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
THISTLE SALES CAMPAIGN
NOW IN FULL SWING
(Continued From Page One.)
The work on the year book is pro
gressing at a satisfactory rate, but 
there is one thing which has tended 
to retard tlie work, namelythe fact 
that so large a percentage of the 
Seniors and fraternity men have 
failed to have their pictures taken. 
To cope with such negligence it has 
been decided to allow the photo
grapher to remain only during the 
week of the sales campaign. Take 
a strong hint, you Seniors, and 
Greeks, and amble over to Room 
149, Industries, and watch the little 
birdie. Remember, this Friday is the 
last day! j
Of special interest to the student 
body in general, is tlie fact that the 
1924 Thistle has been dedicated to 
the late Mr. Frank Haaren. The 
Thistle Board is to be commended 
for so honoring the memory of one 
who has done so much For the Good 
of Carnegie.
Thistles of previous years have, 
always contained interesting' Senior 
write-ups, and the Thistle of the 
present year will certainly hold its 
own in this respect. The Seniors 
have the following individuals to 
blame ,for any slams or bouquets 
which may be contained in their 
write-ups: Carol Foight, M. M.; J.
Garbreth, Engineering; S. Moimelstein, Industries; Rus Roller, Arts.
The Thietle Board announces that 
Professor Porter Garrett of the Col
lege of Fine Arts, has been chosen 
faculty adviser to tlie Board.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
A universal custom 
that benefits every
body.
Aids digestion, 
cleanses i;;e teeth, 
soothes the throat.
a good thing to remember
THE^ 
FLAVOR LASTS
C. A. HEIMERTS
The Students Store 
and
The Better Shop for 
MEN
Your first thought Classy Hats, 
Caps and Haberdashery at Mod
erate Prices.
At
HEIMERTS
3614 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Next to Post Office. 
Established 1882.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS0
CALIFORNIA VIC
TORS OVER PLEBES
Skibo Yearlings on Short End 
of 13-0 Score at Close 
of Battle
Saturday afternoon at California, 
Pa., the Plebe team was defeated 
by the California Normal eleven by 
the score of 13 to 0.
Although the teams were evenly 
matched the breaks of the game were 
against the Plebes. A long forward 
pass thrown by Hamilton on Cali
fornias 30-yard line was intercepted 
by their quarterback who ran 70 
yards for. their first touchdown. The 
kick for the goal was blocked by 
Voght. The Plebes made fifteen first 
downs to Californias five, but they 
were penalized 100 yards to Califor
nias ten.
In the fourth quarter, the only one 
in which the Plebes were out-played, 
Hamilton kicked out of bounds on hi: 
own 30-yard line. A play through 
center netted 20 yards for Califor
nia, and with straight line bucks 
they carried the ball over for their 
second touchdown. The kick for the 
goal was made.
California had three guards car
ried off the field, while Cooper, a 
husky Plebe linesman, has a> slight 
concussion of the brain, as reported 
by a California physician, but he is 
expected to recover in a short time. 
Glanz-received a serious cut on the 
chin, while Mamby is suffering from 
internal injuries. A speedy recov
ery is wished these boys so that
A DISTINCT ADVANTAGE
To wise youngi persons con
scientious advice and sugges
tions from men long experi
enced in financial affairs often prove invaluable.
This is one way in which thrifty young men and women 
depositors profit through their 
dealings with the Mellon National Bank.
Our officers take personal pride 
in promoting the financial wel
fare of our customers.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbujjr^h, Pa.
ATHLETIC OFFICE OPEN 
EVENINGS FOR SALE OF
NOTRE DAME TICKETS
Tickets for the Notre Dame game 
have been placed on sale at the Grad
uate Managers Office and will be 
priced as formerly announced in these 
columns. Reserved seats will be 
$2.00; box seats, 2.50; and general 
admission, $1.50.
Students should note that admis
sion to the cheering section will be 
by student coupon only, and a sepa
rate ticket will not have to be pur
chased. There will be no fee charged 
to holders of student books. Use cou
pon for event No. 5.
The Graduate Managers office will 
be open evenings to facilitate the sale 
of the Notre Dame tickets, for which 
a great demand is anticipated. The 
office will be open this week on Thurs
day and Friday nights; and \vill be 
open next week on Tuesday, Wednes
day and Thursday nights.
they may play in the final games of 
the season next Saturday. The Plebe 
lineup:
Levinson .......................,.....................L,
Tate ..........................................................L. T.
Cooper .......................................................L. 0
Mambyi ..........................................................C.
Hughes ...................................................R. G
Guthrie ....................................................R. T
Voght .....................................................R T.
Hamilton ......................................t............Q.
Hannon .................................................L. IH.
Blaine .....................................................R. H.
Dodge ............................................................F.
SubstitutionsHauck for Dodge, 
Glanz for Levinson, Shroud for 
Glanz, Ullard for Voght, Mimrich for 
Cooper, Levinson for Blaine, Blaine 
for Levinson, Baum for Mamby.
EXPECT NOTRE DAME
TO DRAW RECORD CROWD
(Continued From Page One) 
youre going to see the greatest game 
of football that you have ever seen 
and youll not be disappointed. While 
the odds are against the Plaid, still 
they have upset the dope several 
times this season.
Of course, all the student body is 
coming to the game and it is expect
ed that a large number of alumni will 
attend. The alumni may make reser
vations by mail through the Graduate 
Managers Office. The orders will be 
filled in the order they are received, 
so it is advisable to get them in early.
DENSITY
VisitorWhats that thing, Oswald? 
ArtistIm going to call it Tho 
Portrait of a Flapper.
Why dont you finish the head? 
Cant, the paints not thick enough. 
Grinnell Malteaser.
NOTICE TECH STUDENTS
NEW MENS FURNISHINGSTORE
Open on or about November 8 
SOUTH CRAIG STREET AT FORBES
Davies and Hughes
Next to Strand Theater 422 South Craig St.
3615 Forbes Street Craig at Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
DRESS SUITS TO RENT
OUR AIM is to RENT the best dress suits 
possible at a reasonable rate.
Our strictly hand tailored suits cut and designed' 
by us assures you of absolute correctness. Every
thing from head to foot for rent.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 Jenkins Arcade
Smithfield 0341
Pittsburgh, Pa. -j 
Hours: 8:305:30
ROBERTSON GETTING AWAY AGAINST DETROIT Bummers Nearly Spend Night in Cell
Conductor Claims Trip Was Pleasant
TARTAN HARRIERS LOSE 
TO ALFRED UNIVERSITY
The Carnegie Tech cross-country 
team was downed by the Alfred 
University runners in meet held at 
Alfred, New York, by the score of 
21 to 34. A light snow had fallen 
*a short time before the meet which 
made the course very sloppy and 
hard to run over. The average time 
was slow due to the poor condition 
of the course.
Captain Dykeman came in first for 
the Plaid, making the course in 32 
minutes and 21 seconds, thirty sec
onds better than his other record. 
Following Dyikeman came four Al
fred runners grouped together, tak
ing respectively second, third, fourth 
and* fifth places. 'Carnegie Tech 
placed a man in the sixth position 
and another Alfred man took the sev
enth tally. Carnegie then got eighth, 
ninth and tenth places, making up 
their total of five runners. The final 
score of the run was Alfred 21, Car
negie Tech 34.
Alfred University has previously 
beaten Syracuse. Colgate and Alle
gheny, beatng r.he latter two) by 
perfect scores. The Alfred' team 
nay easily be ranked among the 
best in the country
The Freshman cross-country team 
was defeated by the P. A. A. team in 
a run held on the homo course last 
Wednesday evening.
CARNEGIE R. O. T. C. GALLERY
MEN TO MEET NEBRASKANS
A challenge by the Mens Riflo 
Team of the R. O. T. C. at the "Uni
versity of Nebraska, for a gallery 
rifle match, has been accepted by the 
R. O. T. C. here. The match will take 
place during the week ending Febru
ary 16tli. The fifteen men who will 
compose the Tech team will bo se
lected from the best shots as devel
oped in the intramuial matches now 
being held.
WILL HOLD MILITARY 
RIFLE COMPETITION
Word has been received by tho Mil
itary Department that the Baltimoro 
News has donated a cup as a prize 
for an annual riflo competition, to bo 
held in the Third Army Corps Area.
The contest will be open to any 
teams whose members reside within 
the territorial limits of the Third 
Corps, and teams from the Reserve 
Officers Training Corps, National 
Guard, Organized Reserves, Regular 
Army, or any regularly organized 
civilian rifle association.
Detdils have not yet been fully 
worked out, but the competition will 
probably be held at Camp Meade, by 
teams of ten members each. Regula
tion army rifles and ammunition at 
both slow and rapid fire courses will 
be used.
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
LOST
This item cannot be classed as athletic exactly, but it concerns one who 
is directly connected with the Graduate Managers office. In short, Miss 
Klea Brainard has lost a bar pina black ebony, propeller-shaped pin which 
is valuable chiefly becausq of sentiment attached thereto. Was lost ou No
vember 5, some place on the campus, and Miss Brainard will be very much 
obliged for the safe return of her* prized article of jewelry.
PUBLICITY FOR BUDDY
Was in the ofilce the other day and Mr. Shaffer was in there talking to 
Buddy Overend. Mr. Shaffer is Bill Pfouts partner in crime up in the 
pattern shop. Well, now we dont like to accuse said Mr. Shaffer of being 
ii hand-sliaker or anything like that, but what other conclusion could we 
draw when, he said to Buddy: "Buddy, you must bo awful modest. You
havent had your name in the paper since you became Graduate Manager."
We dont know for sure, but maybe Mr. Shaffer was after somo good 
seats for the Notre Dame football game. But come to think of it, he always 
occupies a seat among the students in the cheering section. Wo compllmented Professor Sproull last week for his spirit, and wo now wish to do tlie 
same thing for Mr. Shaffer. 1-Ie made himself invaluable to tho track man
agement last Spring by serving as an official at every track moot.
(By Buck -James.)
It is generally known that excep
tions prove tho rule, tho rule in this 
case being deftly expressed by our 
old friend Geek, who was heard to 
remark that these darn holidays are 
a nuisance, yot ho seemed to Smile 
as ho thought of tho mid-semestor 
and the number of men he could
flunk.
Anyhow those who were able to 
rook tho railroads and make Detroit 
certainly had a trip which will bo 
remembered1 as one of the pleasant 
incidents of our college life.
Tho aibsenco of tho Kiltie Band 
was veryl noticeable, especially since 
the United States Marine Corps had 
their band in Dotroit for a big purado prior to the gamo with the Uni1- 
versit}r of Michigan. We should 
have 'enjoyed squelching them. Sev
eral ambitious students started to 
carry m Carnegie banner in front of 
tho Marines parade and fool tho
public, but some of the Marines 
were too old to bo Plebes and besidos they lookod too hard.
Wo thought, wo were exploring 
Canada when wo started for the foot
ball field. It was so far Prom the
city that tho football players only
practice on Tuesdays and Fridays 
since it takes all the rest of the 
time to go and return.
Coming home tho station master 
was treated as a, man of his rank 
aind station should be treated (about 
fifteon men walked right by him
BASKET BALL
Varsity basket ball is now under way and the Freshmen will soon bo callod 
out for practico. Every year, everyone wants to know "Wlmt kind of a 
baskot ball team aro we going to have this year?" And oacli yoar tlio reply 
is, "Good prospects, good material on hand, plenty of veterans, if the mon 
can keep eligible.
Eligibility has been the hoodoo of Carnegie Tech baskot ball toams for 
years. It seems that many of tho bost players aro men who have just finlshod 
a strenuous football season and to go right into basket ball moans a groat 
scholastic as woll as physical strain.
It is vitally important that all mon who can play baskot ball with any 
degree of excellence should report to Coach Lubic and holp to mako this 
year's tho best floor squad that Carnegie Tech has had. Thero must bo 
plenty of substitutes of high caliber to roplaco tho mon who will bo forced 
to drop out duo to scholastic difficulty, and tho mon who aro out at tho 
first of the season will havo tho host chanco.
A coach of great ability is jn charge of tho varsity squad. Tho 111 suc
cess of last seasons team moans nothing in rogard to tlio coach. IIo was 
new and had Immense difficulties to ovorcomo duo to frequent sad nows from 
Dean Tarbells office. We think he will got a chanco this yoar to really show 
Ills stuff.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop ||
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS Ij
HFive Barbers at your sorvlco.
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS [I 
BELOW CHAIG
IS/3/E!JS/3/3/3i3/i!/2/3/3/3/S/Sfi?/Dl/eIJeliS/3/QUeiJe!/u?js
HOCKEY TOOMAYBE
A group of hockey enthusiasts is at work trying to organize a hoclcoy 
team. Somo dny wo aro going to launch into a history of tho hockey outfits 
of Carnogio Tech, but will say now that they havo always glvon good ac
counts of themselves and havo served to indicato that if certain handicaps 
could be ovorcomo there would bo a grojit interest in tho sport. The groatost 
of these difficulties is the expense of obtaining a rinlc for practice and games.
However, Buddy Ovorand was captain of tho first hoclcoy toam ovor or
ganized hero-and if tlioro is a chanco of getting up an aggregation, it will bo 
done now, while Buddy is Commandor-ln-Chlef of Skibo athlotics.
THE SPORTING EVENT OF THE YEAR
What promises to bo a football gamo of more than tho usual proportion 
is that to bo playod somo tlmo in tho near future, probably next Saturday 
morning, betwoon tho Thota XI Stoam Roller and tho Kappa Sigma Cyclone. 
Tho dope about this collosal contest Is that there Is no dopo, but that tlio 
usual tough battle will rosult when Groolc moots Greek.
The T. X. aggregation is said to havo a goodly numbor of Commercial 
Engineers and their lino will probably bo tho stronger. However, tho out
come may depend on coaching, in which department tho Clydo Strootora are 
admittedly superior.
It is unofficially reported that ono of tho toams concornod was planning 
to hang a design of a foaming boor stoin on the oppononts goal posts, but 
this report could not bo verified. Such a maneuver would of course bo dis
qualified, due to the enormous advantago which It would givo to tho team 
facing that goal.
The Kappa Sigmas may enter tho fray with a slight advantago duo to 
the fact that the Theta XI machine may have to start with a fiat tiro.
Certainly!Every student needs a 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA
GO IN THE STUDENT SECTION
We must have our strongest cheering of the season at the Notre Dame 
game two Saturdays hence. To accomplish this students must occupy seatH 
in the student cheering section. PLEASE dont occupy a reserved seat. If 
you are taking a girl she will respect you the more if you take her In the 
student stands.
This, the final game of the season, will bring forth some of the best 
playing of the year and MUST witness the supreme in school spirit and 
cheering. What do you say, folks? EVERY STUDENT IN THE STUDENT 
CHEERING SECTION!
Pythias
I certainly am. Id do anything 
in tlie world for you. Yes, anything!"
Damon
All rightprove It 1 Give me back that Eldorado pencil you borrowed laat night."
avrtfgri
't/ie master drawing pencil'
17 leaJiall dealttt
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP 
418 South Craig St.
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors. 
iflfnJSMSMSMSMSJS/SMS/S/S/SMSMSMS/SJ
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00
Surplus......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
SPEAKER EXPLAINS VALUE
OF ENGLISH TO ENGINEERS
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1R8G. 
ByJJy.FChris trofI 
NDUI P. Fisher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 055
without oven a symptom of a tlckot), 
and tho trip would havo been an en
joyable ono but somebody started 
snoring. Tho intake sounded like' 
tho healthy grunt of a pig. The oxliaust resembled a locomotive letting, 
off steam. The combination was 
wonderful; such a sonorous snore!
Then (he conductor became unruly. 
Poor fellow! The snoring must 
have bruised his modesty and be
sides he had counted the men in the 
football car at least six times and 
had gotten a different number each 
time. He stopped the train and tele
phoned lor police tio meet the train 
at Allegheny. By this time he was 
about as busy as a one-eyed man at 
a burlesque show. Fortunately tho 
engineer proved himself a gentleman 
by going awfully slow at the critical 
time, (some gentlemen will) and by 
the time the train had reachel Alle
gheny the honored guests had parted.
Tho final parting came from tho 
conductor. As he hustled through 
the crowd at tho station he was 
heard to remark, "That was a helluva 
trip/*
BONESS
Norwegian Grain Cnlf 
$10
Distingulsht on nil counts 
but not the type of shoe 
that everybodys wear
ing. Designed and blit 
for the collej man of dicriminating taste who 
lendB but rarely follows. 
Imported Norwegian Calf
skin carefully &. prldefully 
fashioned into a shoe of 
surpassing merit. Conservativly correct, yet with 
life &. youth in every line.
November 1C
Score* In NfwYok.UrpoWyn.Ncwrk ihla.* Address for Mall Ordres m Dau a t ree t-New York City
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men's Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
Youll All Be Singing This One
There are a great many things to 
be taken into consideration in the 
making of valuations and rates for 
public utilities. This /was brought 
out very clearly by Mr. E. E. Bankson in his discussion of Public Util
ity Valuation and Rate Making be
fore the Civil Seminar last week
The duties of the Public Service 
Commission were outlined by the 
speaker. These are to regulate both 
service and rates. To arrive at a 
proper valuation of the utility a 
complete inventory of the plant 
must ibe taken and then an average 
value put on the various items. This 
inventory not only included the mar 
terial property but also such things 
as depreciation and1 dividends. Oper
ating expenses were then included 
and from the whole a reasonable 
rate was determined.
In his talk Mr. Bankson explained 
tho real value of English and public 
speaking to tho engineer and how 
a good working knowledge of both 
would be very materially aid him.
Mr. Pankson is a civil engineer of 
varied experience. For tho pant 
even years he has been connected 
with tho J. N. Chester Engineers as 
Rate and Appraisal Expert. He Is a 
member of tho Am. Soc. C. E.
SophOnly, a fool is sure of him
self.
FroshAro you certain of that?
SophPositive.McGill.
Mental tests conducted by the psy
chology department reveal the Incred
ible fact that many Freshmen have 
normal intelligence.
The Kentucky Kernel.
Always 
Something 
NEW on 
Brunswick 
Records
As
Margaret
Young
Sings
245975c 
Papa, Better Watch 
Your Step 
Somebodys Wrong
aiul other popular songs 
on Brunswick Record*
There if the joyfulnenn of 
exuberant youth in Margaret 
Young's singing of popular 
ongs. She breathes into them all the sparkle and pep of her vivid personality. 
Hear this great Brunswick 
record at any Brunswick dealer.
Here arc some other selections by this popular artintx
Jlmbo Jambo" 
Stingo Stunfjo 
"Whoa, Tlllie, Taka
Your Time
The Sign of Musical Prestige
AbllMMvick^riiONOC&AP JS AND RECORD f

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1923
&ALUMNI PAGEj fi
CLAN NEWS
LAKEWOOD CLAN
Duo to an oversight, a lint of former 
student and Alumni living In Lake* 
'wood, Ohio, wan not Included In the 
' Cleveland Clan lint published) In the 
 Tartan of October 30th.
It In given herewith:
Edward E. Duff, Jr., 1CC8 Parlcwood 1 road, Lakewood, Ohio.
'Helen Hollman, 1685 Lincoln avo.mio, Lakewood, Ohio.
Merton 0. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon 
avenue, Lakewood, Ohio.
Mrs. Merton 0. Kingsley, 17817 Canirjon avenue, Lakewood, Ohio.
! Sylvia N. Klolnsmlth, 1841 Beach 
,avenue, Lakewood, Ohio.
Albert Carl May, 12508 Clifton bou
levard, Lakow.ood, Ohio.
Robert A. Pierce, 1241) Belle avenue, 
Lakewood, Ohio.
Mrs. James Sparks, 2018 Wyandotte 
avenue, Lakewood, Ohio.
DINNER IN COMMONS
The classes of '21 and '22 will be 
.interested to hoar that the graduates 
of the Chemical Engineering and 
Chemical Science courses are going 
to meet In the Carnegie Commons 
'(the old beanery) next Saturday at 
six o'clock Cor a dinner. A real live 
party Is planned for the rest of the 
everting.
All men from those two years are 
invited to be present and awaken the 
memories of the not-so-long-ago, but 
are also requested to notify Mr. .T. B. 
Zimmerman, 505 Renshaw building, 
phone number, Grant 2559, of their 
coming.
Suggests Apprentice 
Course for Plumbers
Director Connelley Discusses 
The Dignity of Labor
The mooting of the representatives 
of plumbing manufacturer and the 
oxooutlvo committee of the Plumbers 
National Extension Bureau at the Ho
tel McCurdy, Evansville, Indiana, was 
do voted largely to the discussion of 
establishing an experimental school 
for apprentice plumbers In this city. 
The apprenticeship courso is expected 
to be a three year courso, and will 
be open to all those wishing to take 
lip this line of work, The plans aro 
to furnish part time employment 
along with the vocational course. Tills 
will afford a wonderful opportunity 
for men and boys to get a oollogo 
training. By Introducing the part 
time employment plan, it will bo pos
sible for many more to take up the
WASHINGTON CLAN
From Washington, D. C., comes the 
announcement that the clan there is 
planning to hold a Christmas party 
for the student and any alumni of 
Carneglo, who may happen to bo In 
the national capital over the holidays. 
The ldoa Is for the students to got 
together while home. 'Perhaps many 
of the pooplo you see around the cam
pus are from dear old Washington, 
and you dont know it.
For this reason all that can aro 
urged to attend and to write to Mr. 
J. It, Arnold, 24 Second street, N. E., 
Washington, D. C.
Mr. Arnold Is the president of the 
Washington Clan and promises every
body a good time.
RECOGNITION BUTTON
Alumni aro urged to read the an
nouncement on the first page of this 
Issue concerning the competition for 
a Carnegie Recognition Button de
sign. The contest Is opon to students, 
Alumni and Faculty and the ilnal 
awards will bo made solely on tho 
merit of the design submlttod. Prizes 
ranging from $2.00 to $15.00 will be 
awarded for the best designs submit
ted. Any ideas such as tho thistle, 
the four colors, C. I. T., or a C may 
be Incorporated In your sketch of the 
most appropriate pin or button for 
Carnegie Tech. If you liavo a design 
drawn up, please turn it in to the 
Alumni olllce not later than November 
22. This Is a week later than was 
originally announced and will furnish 
an opportunity for thono who have 
been slow in submitting their designs.
HAVE YOU NOTED:
That the girls turned down the idea 
of combining the two Junior Proms 
and that each will be held an former
ly.
That tho Chemistry Department 
Alumni aro going to got together and 
have a food In tho Commons Thurs
day.
That an oven larger crowd Is ex
pected out for the Notre Dame game 
this yoar than turned out last year.
That the Technical Journal will be 
out soon.
That tho Senior Civils and the Se
nior Commercials aro going to meet 
on tho gridiron and that the betting 
Is heavy on tho campus.
That tho Alumni Employment Bu
reau Is doing excellent work for the 
students.
That the basket ball men are get
ting ready for a big season.
That the WaBhington Clan 1U going 
to have a Christmas party for the 
students homo for the holidays.
That the Arts ball committee Is get
ting busy.
NEWMAN CLUB STARTS 
NEW SCHEDULE TONITE
work than could afford to otherwise.
The Industrial Relations Depart
ment from Carneglo Tech was represented by Director Clifford B. Connelloy, who gavo an address on "Tho. 
Dignity of Labor. Ho advocated 
remedies for the present labor situa
tion and explained In detail the pres
ent apprenticeship problem. Ho 
stated that If a change wore not soon 
made, plumbing apprentices would bo 
extinct, and unless the plumbers them
selves start action along tlioso lines, 
there 1D no liopo for a solution. A 
very offoctivo advertising program 
was outlined for tho advancement of 
tho movement. It was suggested that 
tho first stop that should bo taken in 
tho .solution of tho problem was to 
learn how many now workers tho In
dustry would hood each yoar, basod 
upon an actual study of conditions. 
Then a nation-wide forward move
ment campaign should bo inaugurated, 
sotting forth In an attractive mannor 
tho opportunities, advantages, and 
possibilities of tho Industry. It has 
boon noticod that In tho past Indus
tries thomsolvos hftvo shown very lit
tle interest In tho matter of trade 
training and apprenticeships.
PRINCE TO PROVE 
INTERESTING MAN
Life History of Caetani is 
Vivid With AdVenture 
and Success
DO YOU REMEMBER
This evening is to be the first of 
the Newman Club "Wednesday 
Nights. At the last regular meeting 
it OXD formally decided to make every 
Wednesday, Newman Club Night, with 
a different program each week. Tho 
aesthetic diet for tomorrow will con
sist of a conglomeration of pleasures, 
if you consider them as such. It will 
give a foretaste of the banquets to bo 
served on other Wednesdays.
Tho curtain will rise at 8:30 on a 
meeting, or perhaps it Is a basket ball 
game. Tho order of presentation is 
not very clear in the writers mind. 
Anyway, after the meeting and the 
game, tho floor will bo cleared of 
guards and forwards and the specta
tors will como forward to shake a foot 
while a few artistic souls keep time 
upon the instruments of jazz. When 
those in control of tho food supply see 
that tho dancing begins to lag, they 
will bring forward tho sumptuous re
freshments. (Take all you want, but 
dont ovoroat.) The janitor's flashing 
out the lights will bo the signal to 
got thee hence. 1 By tho way, and this 
Is very important, tho janitors place 
of business is Cathedral High School. 
Call tho sweet woman and ask her If 
she would net rather go there than to 
soo "So Tills Is London."
It Is expected that If this movement 
AU successful, Carneglo Tocli will be 
tho jilaco where tho preparation of 
teachers for tho training of tho ap
prentices will bo undertaken.
The 'Distinction of Unusual Style
THAT type of suit which has always 
been sought after by college men 
and until recently was obtainable only in 
New York is now available in Famous 
Dunshire Clothing.
Those smart little style details which the 
well dressed college man recognizes, and 
which he demands, are found in these 
clothes. There is the soft, free drape of 
the coat front; the wide, typically English 
trousers; there is the graceful lift of the 
lapel and collarthere are all those smart 
details which have made the college mans 
clothes the stylists criterion.
Once worn always wornyou know the suit!
Solo Distributor in Pittsburgh and Vicinity.
Chamber of Commerce BuildingSMITHFIELD STREET AND SEVENTH AVENUE
It is Interesting to note that our 
speaker for Carnegie Day, Prince 
Gelaslo Caetani, is an engineer of in
ternational fame. Besides that he is 
a brilliant statesman and soldier.
The Prince, who is the Italian am
bassador at Washington, Is the mem
ber of a very distinguished family. 
As early as the Ninth century the 
Caetanis were prominent as dukes of 
the city of Gaeta. At the beginning 
of the Twelfth century, a Caetani was 
honored by being elected Pope and 
served in tills capacity under the 
name of Gelaslo II.
In 1294 Benedetto Caetani ascended 
the papal throne, and, as Boniface 
VIII, one of the greatest pontiffs of 
the Middle Ages, began his long strug
gle with the French King, Philip de 
Bel. In 1870, Michelangelo, grand
father of the present ambassador, was 
appointed temporary governor of 
Rome when the city was occupied in 
the struggle for unity, and presented 
Victor Emmanuel II with the plebis
cite of the new capital.
Prince Caetani is the son of Onorato, Duke of Sermoneta, and Ada 
Wilbraham a niece of Lord Darby. 
I-iils father was representative and 
senator in the kingdom for over fortyfive years and held office as the mayor 
of Rome.
The Ambassadors interest in engi
neering dates back to boyhood days. 1-Ie was graduated as a civil engineer 
from the Royal University at Rome in 
1901. He came to "these states at 
the advice of Hennen Jennings, a 
well known American mining engi
neer, who did famous work in devel
oping the Rand Mines of South Amer
ica. He entered the Columbia School 
of Mines and completed his course 
there in 1903. From this time to the 
outbreak of the World War, he was 
employed by several firms as a min
ing engineer.
When the war started, he returned 
to Europe, became a second lieuten
ant of engineers in the Italian Army, 
and soon was sent to the mountain 
district. Ho planned and helped ex
ecute the tunneling and destruction 
of Col dl Lana, the snowcapped 
stronghold of the Austrian army in 
the Alps. Tills colossal mine, explod
ed successfully on April 17, 1916, de
stroyed tho Austrian garrison, and 
gavo tho Italians possession of the 
stronghold.
At the end of the war tho Prince 
returned to civil life. In May, 1921, 
he was elected Nationalist Deputy to 
tho Chamber. He upheld the Fasclsta 
party program and assisted tho pres
ent government to success. Premier 
Mussolini then appointed him ambas
sador to Washington.
From this brief biography, wo may 
expect to listen to a man with an ex
ceedingly colorful personality. He 
more than likely will deliver a speech 
which will not only bo Instructive, but 
very Interesting as.woll.
Fifteen Years Ago
When Coach Knox got sore on the 
gang, and took a place on the varsity 
team showing the bunch how football 
should be played. He showed them, 
too.
About this time, too, the football 
got lost In the darkness during one 
evenings practice, and coach, play
ers and . bystanders used the whole 
supply of matches available, before 
the ball was finally found. .
Motor Transport Unit VOL.XINX9CA RLLIN9EG 
Plans to'Repair Cars
Ten Years Ago
When a load of life preservers were 
unloaded on the campus, and every
body advanced a pet theory on their 
probable intended use. Dean Tarbell 
thought 'they were for the use of the 
football players on the muddy field. 
They turned out to be for the M. M. 
swimming class.
Five Years Ago
When the French Army band creat
ed a stir in the city and were escorted 
about byi the Carnegie band of 105 
pieces. Everybody was wild over the 
Armistice.
Carnegie Tech offered industrial 
courses for women in Drawing. and 
Chemistry.
TWO NEW OFFICERS
COME TO CARNEGIE
Announcement was made by the 
Military Department that Lieut. New
ell L. Hemenway, Corps of Engineers, 
has been added to its staff. It was 
also announced that Capt. Stephen H. 
Sherrill has been ordered here, and 
is expected within a few days, to take 
the place of Captain Walker, who is 
leaving.
Captain Sherrill graduated from the 
United States Military Academy in 
1913 and seived as second lieutenant, 
first lieutenant and captain in that 
year. He had the distinction of serv
ing in the only detachment of cavalry 
which was in the war. He remained 
in the cavalry until August, 1919, 
when he became a captain in the sig
nal corps. In 1920 he entered Yale 
as a student, and received the degree 
of M. S. After leaving Yale, he served 
as commander of a company in the 
Fifty-first Signal Battalion.
Lieutenant Hemenway graduated 
from West Point in November, 1918, 
among the honor men of his class . He 
was detailed as a student in the Basic 
and Engineer School at Fort Humph
rey. After graduation, he made an 
inspection, of the A. E. F. in France 
and Germany. On his return to the 
United States he was assigned to the 
Sixth Engineers at Camp Pllce. The 
lieutenant has just completed a tour 
of duty in the Philippine Islands, 
where, during 1921 and 1922, he served 
with native engineer troops. After 
that, he was transferred to Corregldor 
Island, as engineer officer, in charge 
of defensive works at Manila and 
Subic Bays. At these points are some 
of our most dependable fortifications 
in the Far East.
FATHERS QUITE PLEASED;
BRIEF VISIT ENJOYED
(Continued From Pngo One.) 
principles which aro inculcated in the 
classes.1
"With very best wishes for tho sueCQBs of your gathering and for the 
continued success of your Institute, I 
remain, * * +"
About BO fathers registered, but a 
much larger number were on tho 
campus, most of those from the city, 
probably not registering. The names 
of the registrants follow:
John Altkenhead, Akron, Ohio; F. 
E. Armlmister, Wheeling, W. Va.; Al
bert Benlco, Portage, Pa.; F. C. Baird, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.; William Barkell, Pit
cairn, Pa.; John C. Bauerle, Johns
town, Pa.; John W. Beil, New Castle, 
Pa.; Frank T. Bell, Crafton, Pa.; Mr. 
and Mrs. C. A. Bender, Grantsvllle, 
Md.; C. H. Blair, Derry, Pa.; W. W. 
Bleuitt, Wilkinsburg, Pa.; J. H. C. 
Bovie, Gallipolis, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. 
H. K. Boegdon, Ben Avon, Pa.; C. A. 
Brauckler, Canton, Ohio; -William 
Britton, Philadelphia, Pa.; W. W. 
Bown, Grove City, Pa.; Ml*, and Mrs. 
George Buflihger, Wheeling, W. Va.; 
Emil EBurgert, Scottdale, Pa.; J. 
N. Calbert, Crafton, Pa.; Dr. John C, 
Cockrane, St. Marys, Pa.; T. A. Coile, 
ivit. Vernon, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. R. J. 
Conley, Fairmont, W. Va.; Mr. and 
Mrs. W. Horace Cornman, Carlisle, 
Pa.; A. G. Craft, Wheeling, W. Va.; 
E. W. Cuntes, Jamestown, N. Y.; J. 
H. Cunningham, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Hi
ram R. Davis, Pittsburgh, Pa.; N. T. 
Davis, St. Marys, Pa.; E. S. Douglas, 
Youngstown, Ohio; W. A. Eppleman, 
Columbia, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. D. R. 
Estabrook, Warren, Ohio; Mrs. Lillie 
Evans, Erie, Pa.; W. S. Forbes, 
Youngstown, Ohio; L, E. Fout, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; Thomas Garbett, McKees
port, Pa.; Mrs. Myrtle B. Gay, Scran
ton, Pa.; .1. Loyal Gilbert, Parkers 
burg, W. Va.; Mrs. II. Z. Gossard, 
Butler, Pa.; Thomas C. Griggs, Pitts
burgh. Pa.; Henry ,T. Gross, Bellevuo, 
Pa.; John F. T. Grundmanu, Donora, 
Pa.; lid. J. Gutluio, New London, 
Conn.; Floyd B. Hand, Clarks Summet, Pa.; Charles F. Harris, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; Christian Heer, Ports
mouth, Ohio; Wayno M. High. Read
ing. Pa.; E. J. Hills, Clevoland, Ohio; 
Phillip L. Hoffman, Jr., McKeesport, 
Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. M. B. Hyde, Mingo 
Junction, Ohio; W. D. Jenkins, Pitts
burgh. Pa.; James A. Johnson, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; John M. Johnson, Berlin, 
Pa.; Roswell H. Jonson, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.; L. W. Jones, New Kensington, 
Pa ; W. E. Jones. Niles, Ohio; F. L. 
Kelly, Pittsburgh, Pa.; F. S. Keakill, 
Oil City, Pa.; O. M. Kimmell, Trafford. Pa.; John L. Ivinghorn, Wheel
ing, W. Va.; J. H. Lamb, New Castle, 
Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Lolir, Warren,
R. O. T. C. Men Will Under
take Work in New Lab.
The Motor Transport Unit is now 
located in its new laboratory near the 
foundry shop. As one side is entirely 
of glass, there is ample space for mo
tor repair work. The machinery con
sists of the entire equipment of a ma
chine shop truck, such as is used by a 
mobile motor repair section at the 
front in time of war. The laboratory 
furnlsheB facilities for complete over
hauling of automobiles.
Capt. Knight, wh'o Is the instructor 
of the unit, offers to completely over
haul the cars belonging to students, 
or, to any of the faculty, providing the 
owner will supply the new parts re
quired, and allow sufficient time for 
the work to be done. Advanced stu
dents will do the overhauling under 
the direct supervision of Capt. Knight 
or his,assistant, Sergeant Smith.
Those desiring work done should 
see Capt. Knight to arrange for the 
time when the car can be accepted.
M. M. Alumnae Plan Bridge 
Party in Recreation Hal
On Thursday evening, November 
15, the Alumnae will give a bridge 
party in the Recreation Hall of the 
Womens College. The committee in 
charge is Mrs. Carl E. Glock, chair
man; Mrs. DoirO. Tyles, Mrs. Joseph 
Wilson, Mrs. T. E. Spooner and Mrs. 
W. H. Challinor. A partial list of 
tableholders follows: Miss Bernice
J. Kruger, Mrs. Thomas E. Carlisle, 
Mrs. M. Spencer, Miss Justine Dobbs, 
Mrs. Foster Crouse, Mrs. C. C. Brinton, Mrs. Fred I. Gaston, Miss Miriam 
Weikert, Mrs. C. R. Fettlce, Mrs. Rob
ert Evans, Mrs. C. E. Glock, Mrs. W. 
H. Challinor, Mrs. T. E. Spooner, Mrs. 
Joseph Wilson and Mrs. Don O. Tylee.
FOR LUTHERAN STUDES
Beginning with next Sunday even
ing, November 11th, weekly devotion
al student meetings will be held at 
the Luthern Student House, Dithridge 
and Bayard streets. The regular
meeting which begins at 6 p. m. will 
be preceded by a half-hour luncheon 
social and is to be followed at 6:30 
p. m. by an informal discussion pe
riod. Various student leaders will 
have charge of the meeting and pas
tors have been asked to present 20 
minute topics.
The Student House is a center of 
hospitality and fellowship. Like the 
former Hostess Houses in the army 
camps it is open to everybody daily 
and evenings. It is hoped these so
cial and devotional Sunday nights will 
commend themselves both to the men 
and women students. A cordial in
vitation is extended to the readers of 
the "Tartan.
M. M. GENIUS RAMPANT
IN REVIVIFIED SHILLING
FAMOUS ORCHESTRA
TO PLAY AT ARTS BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
man,| and Earl G. Wheeler, secretary. 
Helen P. Johnson will head the soc
ial committee, and "Doc Taylor is 
making all arrangements for the 
banquet.
Earl Gross has charge of the 
transportation and "Beanie Lowstuter the work by the Plebes.
(Continued From Page One.) 
chance. Other schools literary mag
azines took some time to develop 
years and years, in fact.
This is the Shilling's third year. 
Dont you think its growth has been 
very rapid, considering that in these 
three years it has so nearly ap
proached the intellectual level of tho 
college student that some of them 
read it.
Think what it will become in ten 
years, or in twenty.' Lets keep it 
alive, and help it grow, by standing 
back of it financially.
Think it over, anyway, until it 
appears, and no doubt you will reach 
the right decision. Which is to say, 
youll buy it.
JUNIOR BANQUET TO
BE DIFFERENT THIS YEAR
(Continued From Page One.) 
the committee is working hard to pro
vide something new in this line. 
There will probably be some local 
talent from the College of Fine Arts, 
and some other numbers which have 
not yet been announced.
Whatever is decided, the commit
tee is counting on the solid backing 
of the Juniors in the three schools in 
order to put the thing over, and if 
this is forthcoming, it iB certain that 
we will have a banquet which will 
outrank any of the previous ones.
For that 8:45 
sprint against time
Ohio; H. F. Lowstutor, Charleroi, 
Pa.; James McCredle, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.; J. E. McLain, Pittsburgh, Pa.; 
Samuel Lawr, Niles, Ohio; E. M. Laclcard, Point Marion, Pa.; D. S. Loucks, 
Scottdale, Pa.; J. II. McBurney, Cannonsburg, Pa.; J. L. McCann, Altoona, 
Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. G. B. McCrelght, 
Du Bois, Pa.; Miss Mary C. McKee, 
Harrisburg, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. J. A. 
McKle, ClayBvlllo, Pa.; Mr. ana Mrs. 
J. G. Marks, Cresson, Pa.; D. B. W. 
Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. 
S. T. Martin, Apollo, Pa.; W. Frank 
Matter, Harrisburg, Pa.; W. C. Mawwhlnney, Pittsburgh, Pa.; G. Mefort, 
Lisbon, Ohio; Albert Messer, C. A. 
Medlock, Ben Avon, Pa.; Ed. Miller, 
Bellevue, Pa.; Charles N. Moershfelder, Buffalo, N. Y.; James Moore, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.; James M. Mlirdoclc, 
Polk, Pa.; John Nuttall, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. John Nern, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; Jacob Neu, Washington, 
Pa.; Horace G. Nichol, Youngstown, 
Ohio; Charles E. Obold, Reading, Pa.; 
J. L. Orr, Indiana, Pa.; H. M. Peiglitel, 
.Thornburg, Pa.; P. Petri, Cumber
land, Md.; William Pfouts, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; William B. Polley, Struthers, Ohio; A. B. Powie, Warren, Ohio; 
J. A. Rapp, Titusville, Pa.; Mr. and 
Mrs. William Rowley, Wheeling, W. 
Va.; J.'C. Scheffnit, Emswortli, Ohio; 
Mrs. E. B. Shaw, Pittsburgh, Pa.; R. 
L. Shreve, Titusville, Pa.; Charles O. 
Sherman, Punxsutawney, Pa.; P. D. 
Sheppard, Parkersburg, W. Va.; 
Charles C. Schade, Canonsburg, Pa.; 
William Simpson, Canton, Ohio; Rob
ert W. Sweadnor, Sharpsburg, Pa.; 
Bertram S. Smith, Avalon, Pa.; Craig 
Smith, Pittsburgh, Pa.; D. T. Smith, 
Center Hall, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. Wal
ter S. Smith, Dawson, Pa.; John A. 
Smith, Latrobe, Pa.; Clayton Synder, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mrs. G. L. Snyder, 
Altoona, Pa.; E. U. Sowers, Lebanon, 
Pa.; Harry R. Sykes, Scranton, Pa.; 
Charles G. Taylor, Dover, Ohio; Evan 
J. Thomas, Johnstown, Pa ; J. W. 
Townsend, Apollo, Pa.; John Viehman, Washington, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. 
Frank J. Wallis, Dauphin, Pa.; Harry 
Wayman, New Martinsville, W. ya.; 
Erwin Weil, Evansville, Ind.; H. M. 
Welsh. Pittsburgh, Pa.; N. T. Weser, 
Buffalo, N. Y.; Mrs. J. M. Whitman, 
Washington, D. C.; A. B. Wilt, 
Franklin, Pa.; A. M. WInnett, Sr., 
Bollo Vernon, Pa.; Mrs. G. Wessonauer, Sewiekley, Pa.; C. Earl Wissingor, Johnstown, Pa.; John G. Wittmann, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. 
A. L. Wood, Alliance, Ohio; A. I-I. 
Wyall, Detroit, Midi.; Ed. Yoder, Sa
lem, Ohio; Frank D. Young, Sr., Belle
vue, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. Albert Zelt, 
Washington, Pa.
The feeling of the fathers that took 
part In the day is perhaps best ex
pressed by the sentiment in this note 
out of the many left here:
'** * * it shall be my province to 
boost Carnegie at every opportunity. 
I had the day of my life today and I 
look forward to the next Father's 
Day. I am very thankful to Carnegie 
Tech.
A BIG night and an early morn
ing class. Hard linosbut a 
Rubberset Shaving Brush can 
help 2 ways.
It whips up a generous lather 
fast. It works the lather deep 
down to the roots of every huir 
 holds each erect so the-razor 
can't miss it.
Thats speed. That's comfort. 
No waste time. No raw, sensi
tive face.
Gripped in rubber 
guaranteed
What's more, time is friendly 
to a Rubberset Brush. Each 
bristle is gripped everlustingly in 
hard rubbernone can come out, 
mix with tho lather and spoil 
your shave.
NO one ever 
gets tired of 
Melachrinos  
their unfailing 
quality is a con
stant satisfaction.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
i "The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
