Enter the Tartan's 
Football Contest.
Fill In Coupon XA Page 4XA(CARNEGIE?AN
Read About 
Football Excursion to 
(?  J. on Page 5
VOL. 43No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PATUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949
Council Called Clerical Staff Of Dean
Homecoming 
To Feature 
Open Houses
Three Colleges 
Plan Varied Programs
by NANCY SITLER
Open houses planned by each 
Of Carnegies colleges will be one 
of the main features of the Home
coming weekend. These programs 
will give the alumni an opportu
nity to see the changes made .in 
the school since they graduated, 
as well as enabling all students, 
particularly freshmen, to discover 
what each department has to of
fer.
Departments will be open from 
2:30 to 5 p.m. on Friday, October 
28, and 10:30 a.m. to noon oh 
Saturday, October 29. Friday af
ternoon is intended primarily for 
freshmen and Saturday' morning 
for the alumni, although anybody 
may come either day. The com
mittees in charge of the open 
houses are headed by Shirley Fitzmaurice, MMCC; Richard DePrima, Engineering; and Stark 
Drischell, Fine Arts.
MMCC Plans Exhibit
In Margaret Morrison, depart
mental clubs will furnish hostes
ses and guides to explain the func 
tion of each department. Of spe
cial interest in MMCC is the food 
preparations lab which has six 
different kitchen units, ranging 
from an older type to the ultra 
modern. The lab has been planned 
so that students can have exper
ience with various kinds of kit
chens. A new equipment demon
stration lab has also been added.
Members of departmental so
cieties and honoraries will be on 
hand to assist visitors in Engin
eering Hall. One of the interesting 
features is the new civil engineer
ing lab which will cover parts of 
three floors when completed.
Committee Formed
The Fine Arts department has 
arranged for a special committee 
to guide their freshman class 
through the building as well as to 
greet visitors during Homecoming.
Llorewood Gardens will also 
hold open house on Saturday 
morning.
President 
Entertains 
At Social
President Doherty will enter
tain ten girls representing a cross 
section of dorm women at his 
home this evening. The social 
evening will include refreshments 
and informal discussion on sub
jects of campus interest.
Designed as a means of giving 
the student body an opportunity 
to meet the president socially, as 
well as promoting a closer co
operation and understanding be
tween students and administration, 
the informal meetings were begun 
last year when a group of dorm 
men were similarly entertained.
In the future, President Doherty 
plans to invite several other 
groups representative of various 
sections of campus life.
Dean Dickinson
N//RYMO
Wallace Parr
N//RYMD
Parrs Explosive Letter 
Blasts Council Prestige
Elections Chairman Makes Motion
That Hare System Be Accepted
by Fred Sonnenberg
Carnegies Student Council is just a clerical staff, sound
ing board, and clearing house for Dean Dickinson. It does noth
ing that the administration couldnt do and do better, said 
Wallace Parr in his letter of resignation to Council last Wed
nesday.
On top of Parrs explosive letter, Bob Horsch, chairman of the 
elections committee, moved that Council accept the long contested 
Hare system of counting votes. The motion was tabled for discussion 
I tomorrow, since the by-laws require a one-week tabling of all by
-laws revisions.
Campus Chest Sets Percentage 
After Conducting Recent Surve
County Community Chest To Receive 55.9%;
Six Other Agencies Will Split Remainder
On the basis of their recent survey of over 900 students, the 
Campus Chest Committee has set the percentage distribution of this 
years Chest Fund.
Allegheny Countys Community Chest will receive 55.9% of the 
total collected. It is quite armrn-*
priate that this organization 
should receive such a large pro
portion of the money since it dis
tributes its funds to 92 Red 
Feather Agencies, from the Boy 
Scouts to Aid for the Aged.
Six Others Included
Other charities which those 
surveyed felt should be included, 
and the percentages which they 
will receive, are as follows: Red 
Cross, 11.7%; World Student 
Service Fund, 11.3%; Infantile 
Paralysis, 10.8%; Salvation Army, 
4.1%;Cancer Fund, 3.4%; Heart 
House, 2.8%.
The percentages listed above 
are the definite amounts which 
each organization will receive. 
They are different from the pro
posed figures which were listed 
in last weeks edition of the Tar
tan. The figures listed were arriv
ed at from a survey of Carnegie 
students.
This is the first year in which 
th^ student council appointed 
committee, headed by Bob Horsch, 
has been in existance. Previonsly, 
individual charities conducted 
their own drives on campus.
Community Chest set a goal of 
$1.50 per student, the WSSF hoped 
to get $2.00 apiece, and the Red 
Cross planned on $.50 each. Only 
those which could afford rather 
large drives, the Community 
Chest, for example, ever reached 
their goals. The total amount 
realized was about $9000 each 
year.
Plan Widely Used
On other campuses the num
ber of federated drives have been 
increasing. Their success is in
dicated by the fact that the Uni
versity of Washington, West Vir
ginia Institute of Technology, and 
Oberlin oversubscribed the totals 
previously solicited by the indi
vidual charities. This 3rear Pitt is 
planning two Chest drives, one 
each semester.
Campus Chest committee func
tions not only in soliciting money 
in the fall, but also to help such 
agencies as the Goodwill Indus
tries collect clothes, and the World 
Student Relief collect used books 
for overseas students.
Queens Election
Nominations for Freshman 
Queen will take place next, 
October 24 to October 26.
Meetings are scheduled as 
follows Monday, Otcober 24, at 
4:30 MMCC; secretarial, room 
115; home economics, room 14. 
Tuesday at 4:30 in MMCC; gen
eral studies, room 115; general 
science, architecture, and social 
work, room 14. Wednesday in 
Fine Arts at 5:30; drama, room 
106, at 4:30; music, room 107; 
and P&D, room 301.
Dorm Council 
Fills Vacancies
Fall Dance Plans Laid; 
HC Chairman Named
At last weeks emergency Dorm 
Council meeting, called because 
of the resignation of the officers, 
Joe Zaffuto was elected president 
for the remainder of the year. 
Jack McDonald was elected vicepresident; Dick Chelius, budget 
director, and Roger Lee, property 
custodian.
Since Claymore Clan refused to 
conduct all-dorm social functions, 
other emergency business includ
ed the naming of a committee un
der Jack McDonald to take charge 
of the annual fall dorm dance at 
the University Club on October 
29.
Another committee was formed 
to work with Citcom on the Fri
day night Homecoming dance. 
Fred Richards is dance chairman 
for the dorms. *
Another Part Of The Forest
To Open Tomorrow Evening
Sidney Spayde, director of the famous Dock Street Theatre and 
School in Charleston, South Carolina, Is directing this years open
ing production of the Carnegie drama department.
The opener, Lillian Heilmans Another Part of the Forest, 
will run from tomorrow through*;
October 26, with a matinee on 
Friday.
Mr. Spayde, who also teaches 
at the South Carolina theatreschool, was associated with the 
Cain Part Theatre in Cleveland 
for seven years before joining the 
Dock Street staff.
The play which Mr. Spayde is 
directing for Carnegie is a char
acter study dealing with an Ala
bama family dominated by greed, 
fear and mistrust.
Sequel In Reverse
Although written after Miss 
Heilmans The Little Foxes,
Another Part of the Forest is a 
sequeal in reverse in that it shows 
the Little Foxes characters at an 
earlier period in their lives.
Mr. Spaydes production will 
represent a departure from the 
usual double-casting custom of 
the Carnegie drama department.
One cast will play all eight pro
ductions of the run.
Leading roles will be portrayed
Sidney Spayde
by Collette Crawford as Regina 
Hubbard, Helene Miller i.s La
vinia Hubbard, Lester Rosenberg 
as Marcus Hubbard, Fred Miller 
as Benjamin Hubbard, and James 
Madison as Simon Ishman.
After President Sinclair finished 
reading the letter, he moved that 
Council go into a committee of 
the whole discussion.
Outsiders Uninformed
Elected to the governing body 
last February, Mr. Parr placed in 
the letter his interpretation of 
Councils working and why he 
thought Carnegie could do without 
it. Seldom, according to him, 
is there a divided vote unless 
over some matter affecting the 
Constitution. The members are 
presented with a one-sided view 
point, and outsiders are not in
formed when a measure affecting 
them is before Council.
Opening his attack, ex-council
man Parr stressed, Student 
Council does nothing to justify 
its existence. It has ten standing 
committeesno one particularly 
necessary or essential.
Kiltie Petition Raised
The budget or clearing house* 
committee could easily become 
100% the jurisdiction of the Dean 
of Men instead of the 95% it is 
and the committee would proba
bly increase in efficiency as a con
sequence. He then brought up 
the handling of the Kiltie Band 
petition at the preceeding meeting 
and mentioned that Art Zuch, 
budget committee chairman, 
quoted Dean David when he said 
an additional appropriation would 
be a bad precedent.
The publications committee is 
independent of day-to-day opera
tions of the publications and acts 
only in unusual circumstances. 
It serves as an expression of ad
ministrative opinion when func
tioning as a jury for internal dis
putes and when functioning as a 
dismissal agency (in exercising its 
power to request resignations.)
Committee Only Liason
Mr. Parr claimed that he heard 
it unofficially voiced by the com
mittee men that their main func
tion is to serve as liason officers 
between Student Council and the 
administration, and that their real 
concern is to please the admin
istration.
If there was no council, there 
would be no council elections, and 
so the elections committee could 
go out of existence. APO could 
easily handle the election of 
Freshman Queen, class officers, 
and Spring Carnival Queen; in
deed, Mr. Parr points out, they 
already do.
Social Setup Questioned
Believing that the social life of 
Carnegie would be unaffected if 
the social committee ceased to 
function, ex-councilman Parr 
points out the procedure of its 
[Continued on page 3}

---------------------------------------------------

2TA&tfPAIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949
Editorial
Revealing
Mr. Parrs blast at Council is a most reveal
ing document. First, as a letter of resignation, it 
is a condemnation of himself. Mr. Parr has been 
a Council member for over a semester and has 
had ample chance to try to correct the situation 
he has described. If these ideas have just be
come apparentto him, Mr. Parr has shown a 
cowardly attitude to the problem by resigning 
immediately without any investigation on his part 
as to what could be done to remedy the condi
tion.
All this is true if we assume all he states 
in his letter is valid. However, we will not ac
cept this assumption. Certain portions of the 
letter are correct in the manner stated but it is 
evident Mr. Parr did not investigate why cer
tain situations which he condemned must nec
essarily be as they are.
Mr. Parr states that all Council accomplishes 
at the present time could be handled by the Dean 
of Men and he suggests that Council be abolished 
since it does not justify its existence.
Mr. Parr is correct in saying that the Dean 
could handle Councils functions. However, he and 
a great many other students would quickly scream 
about military rule and dictatorship in Council 
were abolished. The purpose of Student Council 
is to provide self government. If the student body 
does not care how they are governed, then we 
agreeStudent Council should be abolished.
The principal argument presented by Mr. 
Parr is that Student Council is nothing more 
than a clerical staff, sounding board, and clear
ing house for Dean Dickinson.- He uses as his 
proof the functions of each Council committee 
and its connections with some portion of the 
administration.
He has failed to see that these ties are not 
demanded by the administration but that they 
are the result of inactivity on Council. Here the 
answer to the entire problem lies. Too many 
councilmen, and we believe Mr. Parr is included 
in this group, have been active only on Wednes
day afternoon instead of accepting the job as a 
full time responsibility. Many of the Councilmen 
do not know wThat chores should be accomplished 
or how large the domain of Councils rule can 
be. They have accepted what little has been done 
before as their standards without even a thorough 
knowledge of the governing bodys constitution.
This lamentable condition of disinterest and 
lack of responsibility is not entirely the fault of 
Council members. On the whole most of them 
did not choose to run for the positions they 
hold, but were run by some party whose main 
object was to gain political strength and elect
ed by voters who had little idea whom they 
were electing. A chance to remedy the situa
tion will come in the next election..
What we would like to see is an interested and 
responsible Council. So interested and responsi
ble that the next resignation would read: Dean 
Dickinson is nothing more than a clerical staff, 
sounding board, and clearing house for Student 
Council.
m WMTm* wrwr* m TTAWP!/t IV_JML -A .mm JBLW JML. Ak Jmm. Jk. mi
OFFICES Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 1-4557, after hours: news, MU. 1-7017, MU. 1-6312; business, EM. 1-6597, SC. 1-8851.Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .............................................. Albert F. Kimmel
Business Manager .............................................. Herbert Stone
Managing Editor .................................*... Paul V. Offermann
Personnel Manager  .............................. Robert J. Kubiak
News EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn. Copy EditorLloyd Dyer. Makeup EditorRalph Painter. Advertising ManagerMorty Baker. Circulation Manager Clarence Smith. Art EditorNorman Rosfeld.Headline EditorCatherine Rudy Proof EditorJohn Braun. Assistant Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Senior ReporterJoseph Weinreich, Chief ReportersLaura Ehni, Frances Hamborsky, Nancy Sitler, A1 Bader. Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger. Copy StaffJohn Gerum, Analee Gelman, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Ed Muttart, Sally Ward, Maureen Kane. Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist. PhotographersLeland Green, Howard Miskill. ReportersJo Chrisanti, Alan Botcky, Joan Blumenthal Mary Cauffield, Nancy Sitler, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Edward Koos, Patricia Kelly, Dolores Mitchel, Shirlee Ploeger, Jane Robb. Susan Flood, Hugh Young. Cub ReporterJoanne Helms, Ann Parker, Nancy Rausch, Rosemary Serafini, Fred Sonnenberg. Sports StaffRichard Barr, Robert Dougherty, Charles Kink. Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt, John Roslund, Bruce Updike. ? Art StaffBill 
Hofscher.Business StaffBob Powers. Herman P. Alexander, Dave Goldsmith. SecretaryDorothy Boats.TypistsPatti McDermott. Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City Subscription *1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1878. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Oc
tober 21. 1018.
WO.RCUMT O.RCUMT H.FU NIO HD.RCUME 
LFDM CRDI NIO /NRUOD.I CRCCUM?W
UMHHMDY H. HSM MOFH.D
Dorm Council Member 
Comments on Situation
Editor, the Tartan: v
The recent turmoil in dormitory government 
has brought into sharp focus the need for better 
and more efficient organization of Dorm Council. 
The Claymore plan was such a device. To qual
ify this plan is not intended here.
I will agree with the Clan that the former 
setup of council was inadequate and sorely in 
need of revision. However, I hasten to defend 
the present Council against the unfair attacks 
(implied) by the Clan on the incompetence and 
inefficiency of old. It is a new organization, un
tried, and thus not deserving of these charges.
Joe Zaffuto has accepted the task of leading 
Dorm Council to full productivity. Councilmen 
have rallied to fill the gap which was created so 
unexpectedly. Cooperation seems to be the 
watchword. The president has wisely delegated 
the chores to willing workers (yes, willing, I 
said.) It is clear that such cooperation and or
ganization will be more than sufficient to meet 
the responsibilities of this governing body of one 
of the most important segments of campus life.
To the president, WISE LEADERSHIP.
To council, DONT WEAKEN, STRIVE FOR 
A MORE PERMANENT EFFICIENCY.
To Claymore Clan, Thanks for your sug
gestions.
Roger Y. M. Lee 
EE 52
Expansion
Because of plans to increase 
its size to a 12-page weekly, the 
Tartan is in need of students 
who are willing to work on 
make-up. A meeting will be 
held Friday evening in the 
Tartan office at 7:30.
by Joe Weinreich
Henderson Hall isnt haunted! 
It was the plumbing that clat
tered and clanged at all hours of 
the day and nite. Pipes have been 
repaired but not before the fol
lowing explanation was offered: 
There once was a Techite named 
Paul
Residing in Henderson Hall.
Think of his dismay 
As he listens all day 
To the plumbings mating call.
It is my observation that the 
average Pittsburgher cant seem 
to get enough of the Kiltie Band, 
in fact he rarely gets a glimpse 
of a kilt. What better advertising 
could be had for the Kiltie Con
certs than a trot or two in some 
downtown parade?
MG pipe smokers, have you 
read about the Tartan football 
contest? See page 4 for particu
lars.
For the benefit of all concern
ed; Joseph Ngs name is pro
nounced ing as in bring.
belta Skull is currently wrest
ling with the problem of getting 
better attendance at Chapel pro
grams. It seems that one or two 
programs are well atter\ded, 
while the majority go practically 
unheard. A more varied program 
would help those who are less of 
a drawing'card than Mr. Agronsky. For instance, bring in some 
of the choirs from Pittsburgh 
churches, or have one of the glee 
clubs give a short recital.
Loyal Reader Criticizes 
Whole-------School
Editor, the Tartan:
You stated in the Tartan a couple of weeks 
ago, that opinions, suggestions, and gripes are 
welcome.
My opinion is based on the fact that I do not 
wish to be looked upon as a student at any 
damned school with a damned team. Our 
successes in the stadium or classroom prove 
otherwise!
I am obviously griping upon your use of the 
above quoted words on the center of the front 
page in your last issue.
J. van der Harst 
M.E. 51
(We apologize for offending our readers. The 
phrases whole damned school and whole 
darned team were used in the cheers we describ
ed and we were merely quoting them. However, 
we failed to place quote marks around these 
terms.Ed.)
(joiviiS to Cjarb a 
CjoddcSS 
See our fall fantasy 
f forma^ in a^ 
fal ricS and sizes, 
designed especially 
for uouand madeyoupito please hnm
'UMFIiY
131 N. HIGHLAND AVE., M? UFCMDH
Dresses, Suits, Coats, 
Formalwear

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949 TAWAN
LUCKIES MY MOREto give you X finer cigarette /
BZT y1 1XbyssX yos1rXAZ Uosen Y1treB 
fynZ lrddrXAZ Xc pXddytZ lXtB 1ayA
  0 *Xccrsryd fytr1n ftrsBZ cXt crAB 1XbyssXh
Theres no finer cigarette in the world today than 
Lucky Strike! To bring you this finer cigarette, 
the makers of Lucky Strike go after fine, light, 
naturally mild tobaccoand pay millions of doU 
lars more than official parity prices to get it!
So buy a carton of Luckies today. See for your
self how much finer and smoother Luckies really 
are how much more real deep-down smoking 
enjoyment they give you. Yes, smoke a Lucky!
Its a finer, milder, more enjoyable cigarette!
RAYMOND W. CRUTCHFIELD of Reidsville, N.C., 
veteran tobacco warehouseman, says: Year 
after year, Ive seen the makers of Luckies buy 
tine, ripe leaf that makes one great smoke!** 
Crutch * * has smoked Luckies for 20 years. Here*8 
more evidence that Luckies are a finer cigarette!
.S./AI.F.7? iueAy Stoike Ateano Fine 7b&acce
YX tXoApv ZX crtlv ZX coddn fyseBp6ZX ctBB yAp ByZn XA 1aB ptyk
/
Janitors Could Decorate9
[Continued from page 1] 
operation. An organization spon
soring a social function obtains a 
petition from the Dean of Women 
which asks for information on 
chaperones, time and place of af
fair, etc.
When this petition is approved 
by the Dean of Women, the or
ganization may, for all practical 
purposes, consider the approval 
as final and proceed with its plan
ning. The social chairman picks 
up these petitions and brings them 
to Council. He reads them and 
moves that each one be accepted. 
Other than rubberstamping, the 
social committee may give a dance 
once a year or so. .
Committees Clerical
Stressing again the clerical na
ture of the functioning of the 
committees, he thought Cwens and 
Scimitars could handle the work 
of the freshmen regulations, 
which they do already. The per
manent decorations work could 
be handled by a janitor in the 
gymnasium with no loss in effi
ciency, according to the results of 
his studies.
Council accepted Mr. Parrs res
ignation after it learned he had 
been absent from enough meet
ings to require a request for res
ignation anyway.
Rental Raise Sought
Other business before the Coun
cil included a report by the 
permanent decorations committee 
that new loud speakers could be 
purchased for $40 to replace the 
ones burned out due to faulty 
handling. Art Zuch, chairman of 
the budget committee, moved that 
Council up the rent of PA equip
ment from $5 to $6. The one dol
lar would be placed in a deprecia
tion fund to cover repairs and re
placements.
ROTC Unit 
In Review
English General Here 
In Role Of Observer
Major General A. D. Campbell, 
Engineer-in-Chief of the British 
War Office, will review the En
gineer Reserve Officers Training 
Unit at Carnegie Tech tomorrow.
General Campbells visit to the 
Carnegie ROTC unit is part of an
18 days study he is making of 
military and civil activities of the 
U. S. Armys Corps of Engineers.
General Campbell, who served 
as Inspector of Fortifications and 
Works in the United Kingdom 
during part of World War II, has 
been Engineer-in-Chief of the 
British War Office since 1938.
Extra-Freshmen Pray For Rain 
(Ed. NoteThey Got It!)
Rain fell from a cloudless sky 
over Morewood Gardens last Tues
day midnight. In various stages 
of dress and undress the men of 
the class of 53 met with the un
expected downpour.
In response to the lusty cheers 
and chants for rain, the residents 
of Morewood Gardens happily 
heaved gallons of water upon the 
congregation below their windows. 
So the annual festival went to its 
successful conclusion.
At least one of the participants 
enjoyed the orgy. Long after his 
companions swam back to books 
and bed he remained behind to 
bidwith a polished thespian flare 
fond farewell to the ladies.

---------------------------------------------------

4TA4W*AIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949
COME TO ME ARMS 
'i A BZAUTIFUL/y
VOL.43NNo
THE FAMOUS 1 
SPALDING J5-V2
Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders 
have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... 
absorb juices.. . reduce tongue bite .. . 
give you the utmost in smoking pleasure. 
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUAUTY) 
Specially selected imported briar Pipes. * 
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters.
Alto Frank Medico "Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar (il) Pipe 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders *f & *2MEDICO
LFUHMDMO Yu.'FIg
Y? u? LtyAe c1 /X?T FAs? j Lrc1a NmBAoBT IBk Xte VV
All MEDICO FIFES NOW MADE OF 
PH-WAR OUAIITY IMPORTED BRIAR
Read the contest rules below 
and fill in and deposit the coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, ad
dressed to the Tartan. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Fri
day.
CONTEST RULES
1. Only CIT students are eligible to cor/ipete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner but also the final score of the game. Entries will be judged on number of correct decisions in case of ties, entries will be judged on correctness of scores.3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry Is submitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winner will be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges will be final.6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive the Smokers Kit shown above from S. M. Frank & Co., Inc.
Soccer Team Scores Upset; 
Turns Back Frostburg, 1-9
Pictured at right is the attrac
tive Smokers Kit which will be
awarded to the winner of the Tar
tans weekly football contesi. The
It was a tired but fighting Tartan football squad thatcame 
so close to its third victory last Saturday and even until .the 
final moments of the game were striking back at the rallying 
Franklin and Marshall team.
Ihere can be no question that the Plaid wanted to win 
the ball game and refused to play defensive ball in anticipa
tion of a tie. A few breaks either way at any one of a number 
of points could have turned the tide, but nothing seemed to 
ma erialize.
Carnegie sorely missed the services of both Lou Fougere 
and Jack Magnifico. Magnifico was ready to go despite the 
cast encasing his thumb, but the officials refused to allow him 
to enter. Fougere, of course, would have proved invaluable both 
offensively and defensively throughout, but even more so when 
it appeared that the starters who played with little rest were 
beginning to tire.
The most deciding factor in the game, however, w7as the 
powerful wind that was driving the length of the field. Here 
was the big reason for the failure of the Carnegie punting corps. 
Time and again they were forced to kick into the stiff air cur
rents while deep in their own territory.
Passing, too, was affected by the wTinds. Only in the sec
ond and fourth periods when the breeze was blowing at their 
backs could the Plaid get their offense moving. F&M, on the 
other hand, found their ground attack functioning at its best 
when they were facing the wind.
On the defensive side, a great deal of credit must go to 
Gerry Meyers and Fritz Wilson.
Meyers was once again the big man in the line with a 
near sixty minute performance, while Wilson broke through 
time and again to trap the Dip ball carriers in their own backfield.
Wes Kenney, of course, was his usual reliable self.
His two conversions ran his record to 10 out of 11 attempts 
for the season, but more important he made the points when 
they meant the difference between defeat and a tie.
Next weeks engagement with Case Tech promises to be 
another tough, close battle. The Rough Riders have pounded 
out two straight victories since their opening loss to powerful 
Lehigh and on paper figure to be stronger than last year 
when they overcame a two touchdown deficit at halftime to 
down the Tartans.
SPALDING
ARMVS GREAT 
OF 1945 SET 
A MODERN MARK
.LQP*?0&OY?AVERAGE PER. 
GAME/* t>u YOU 
CVEC COMStDEe 
. PUWWIN6 
A F2H&r LH Xs
Kannee Scores On Head Shot For Lone Goal Of Game; 
Forwards Teamwork, Fullbacks Defensive Play Good
-UNFO Y.//MD /.N/S NIO /N-HNFI
Tartan Soccer coach Pat OConnor pictured with his captain 
and starting center Bill deVos. The Plaid won their opener against 
Frostburg 1-0, and make their first Pittsburgh appearance this 
Saturday against Slippery Rock on the Soccer Field.
Basketball Drills Step-Up; 
Team Works On Fundamentals
 With three weeks of practice 
under their belts, Mel Cratsleys 
1949 Tartan basketball team will 
continue to stress general funda
mentals and offense plays in prep
ing for their opener against Steu
benville on November 30.
Cratsley seemed well pleased 
with the 2 2-game schedule that 
throws his squad against such 
powerfull teams as Iowa, Illinois 
Tech, Pitt, Westminster, etc.
Although we only lost one 
player from last years squad, 
Cratsley commented, most of our 
opponents, such as Pitt and West
minster, lost only one or two also.
Theodore In Pivot
When asked about starting team 
players, Cratsley mentioned ten 
players who are about par at this 
point in the season. Mike Theo
dore will definitely be in the pivot 
spot.
Forwards will be filled in by 
veterans Joe Matsey, Dave Ellies, 
Bob McCullough, Connie Hammann, and freshman Tom Craig.
Jack Riehl, Tom Beck, TassoKatselas and Len Bianchi will 
fight it out for starting guard as
signments.
Freshman Squad Formed 
Don Thompson, who spearhead
ed the intramural champion 
Freshman Architects last year, will 
also see service with the Skibos 
this season.
This year there will be a fresh
man squad playing their games as 
preliminaries'to the regular games. 
Marty Chetlin is acting as fresh
man coach with a newcomer, Stan 
Bentos, as his assistant. Bentos 
came from coaching a Hawaiian 
High School and is now a student 
in Fine Arts.
Giving evidence that football is 
not the only sport on the upswing, 
the Carnegie Tech Soccer Team 
opened its 1949 campaign with a 
1-0 upset of powerful Frostburg, 
Maryland, State Teachers College.
The game, played last Saturday 
on the losers field, saw the Tarbattle through a scoreless first 
notch the only goal midway 
through the third period, and then 
brilliant defensive soccer the 
of the way.
Gruelling Contest
Henry Kannee, a Latin Ameri
can product, scored the lone goal 
of the gruelling, hard-fought con
test after eight minutes of play 
in the third quarter. Kannee took 
a corner kick from Santiago Cres
po and headed it past the Frost
burg goalie.
Although the entire squad per
formed brilliantly, the teamwork 
of the forwards and the defen
sive play of the fullbacks was par
ticularly outstanding. Even more 
encouraging was the showing 
made by the freshmen in their 
initial college engagement.
Tom Edson, Mazza Workner, 
and Jim Vaux, all first-year men, 
played exceptionally well and are 
expected to become even better 
as they gain experience. Jack Burrey and Francis Jenkins, veteran 
booters, played greatly improved 
soccer, Burrey being the Tartans 
defensive standout all afternoon.
Home Opener Saturday
Coach Pat OConnor, although 
obviously pleased with the teams 
showing, is working hard to get 
his stalwarts ready for the home 
opener with Slippery Rock on 
Saturday.
Even though the Rockets drop
ped a 1-0 decision to Frostburg a 
week ago, they still rank as one 
of the top soccer teams in the 
district, having lost only two of 
the last 28 games played.
Coach OConnor reflected the 
teams confidence and enthusiasm, 
however, when he commented, 
Were going out and will beat 
them.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY BLANK 
gylBZ Xc .s1XbBt VVT G>Q>
Team Score Team
CARNEGIE TECH .......... CASE
PITT .......... INDIANA
VILLANOVA ........... DUQUESNE
WASH. & JEFFERSON .......... BUCKNELL
LEHIGH .......... BROWN
GROVE CITY '.......... ALLEGHENY.
PENN STATE .......... MICHIGAN STATE
NAVY ........... U. OF PENNA.
WILLIAM AND MARY .......... WAKE FOREST
MINNESOTA .......... MICHIGAN
Name ..............................................................Dept............... Class .
Score
Pittsburgh Address
kit contains two pipes and two 
boxes of filters in a convenient
the BALL THAT GET THE CALL 
IN AMERICA'S LEADING 
GKJDIRON CLASSICS 
AND IN MOST OF THE MANUAL 
&OWL GAMES
Spalding
sets the pace 
in sports
zippered case.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949TA4MPAIV5
Carnegie Gridders Tie F cj M. 14-14
Tartan Li no man of the Week
^ Fritz Wilson, sophomore end, was 
selected as the Tartan Lineman 
of the Week in last Saturdays 
battle with Franklin & Marshall 
college.
The 61, 180 pounder from Mev tKeesport pulled in four passes 
against the Diplomats for a total 
of 71 yards. On one occasion he 
took a short toss from Bobby Som
mer and lateraled to Nick Simcic 
for the first touchdown of the 
game.
His great defensive play was a 
deciding factor in the outcome of 
the contest. Time and again he 
broke through to throw the opgx positions passers and ball car
riers for big losses.
Previous Linemen of the Week 
are: BethanyFloyd Wiseman; St. 
FrancisGerry Meyers.
Fritz Wilson
Excursion
Through the efforts of Cwens, 
Scimitars, and Delta Skull, 
busses will be chartered to 
take Carnegie students to the 
football game at Washington and 
Jefferson on October 29.
Round trip tickets at 1.25 will 
go on sale today and may be 
purchased from any member of 
Scimitar or Cwens.
The busses, furnished by the 
Union Bus Terminal Co., will 
leave Margaret Morrison at 
12:30.
Fraternities have been ex
tended an offer of special busses 
for this game. Each bus, seat
ing 37 people, will cost a flat 
rate of $42 for the round trip to 
W & J.
Headed by Lloyd Dyer, Scim
itar, the committee which made 
arrangements for the busses is 
composed of Nancy 'Metcalf, 
Cwen, and Joe Weinreich, Delta 
Skull.
*>
CRISPER, CLEANER 
DRAWINGS...use
the worlds largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
Turn in consistently neat, accurate draw
ings with Venus Drawing Pencils. They 
hold their points and give you opaque 
lines for sharp, clear reproduction.
SMOOTH The lines are uniform in 
weight and tone because the clay and 
graphite in Venus Drawing Pencils are 
blended evenly in the Colloidal* process.
STRONG Venus Drawing Pencils 
are Pressure-Proofed* which means that 
the lead is bonded to the wood. Adds 
extra strength to needle-sharp points.
ACCURATE Your work is easier 
with Venus Drawing Pencils. Scientifi
cally tested at each step of manufacture 
and uniformly graded in all 17 degrees. 
P For better results, use Venus Drawing 
Pencils with the green crackle finish. Buy 
them at your College Store.
exclusive Venus Patent
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
> INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
drawing board!
Send 25c. for Sketching 
with Venus ... 24 pages 
of valuable illustrated in
struction. Also you get at 
no extra cost a Technical 
Test Kit, featuring 2 Venus 
Drawing Pencils.
American Pencil Company, Hoboken, New Jersey makers of famous Venus Pens 
........-------------------------------------------------------
American Lead Pencil Co.
Hoboken, N. J.
Enclosed it 25c for my copy of Sketching 
with Venus" ond the Technical Test Kit 
with 2 Venus Drawing Pencil*.I I
Name______________________________________________ I
College.
Address
IMFootball Summary
Alpha Tau Omegas able six man team staved off a last minute 
scoring threat by Emanon and thereby managed to stay on top of 
the Federal League standings. _ '
Going into the final minutes of the fourth frame, the ATOs had 
an 8-6 lead. Frank Witt of Ema-*----------------------------------------------------
non intercepted a pass in midfield 
and scampered to. the ATO 25 
yard line where John Barr car
ried the ball for 20 yards and a 
first down. Jim McShane then 
went around his own right end 
to the 1 foot line.
Penalty Costly
At this point Enjanon was pen
alized for taking too much time in 
the huddle. McShane flipped the 
ball to Witt in the end zone but 
the ball bobbled out of reach; a 
fourth down do or die pass attempt 
was incomplete and Emanon lost 
the ball.
ATOs Wayne Ashbee lateraled 
to Ronny Knox and Knox tossed 
to Hank Morrow for a first down 
in midfield and another precious 
point. Again Emanon get posses
sion of the ball and again the ATO 
defense turned back their oppo
nents. The game ended with ATO 
in possession of the ball in mid
field. Final score: ATO 9; Eman
on 8.
Passes Sink Dukes
ASCE and the Dorm Dukes 
struggled to a half time score of 
2-0 in favor of the dorm team. In 
the third period ASCE struck sud
denly when John MacDonald pass
ed to Dick Schober for 40 yards 
and a touchdown. The Dukes 
managed to get a first down and 
a touchdown of their own before 
ASCE hit paydirt again, this time 
on a pass from Wickard to Scho
ber. The Dukes finished the -cors 
ing for the game with a 60 yard 
pass to Milton DeJean on the goal 
line. ASCE 14, Dorm Dukes 11.
Collins Sparks Phi Kaps
Phi Kappa set the Newman Club 
back to the tune of 24-18. In the 
first quarter Jack Collins scooted 
ten yards on a reverse around his 
own right end to score the first
Phi Kap touchdown. The second 
period was marked by an Andrews-to-Hall TD pass for the 
Newman Club. Phi Kappa coun
tered as Collins threw a pass from 
the Newman 30 to John Stroble 
for a TD; Bill Repovz converted 
a pass interception on his own 40 
into a PK touchdown.
George Pyle sparked the Delta 
Tau Delta aggregation to a smart 
37-11 win over Beta Sigma Rho. 
The Delts defense baffled their 
opponents and the Beta Sig offense 
never really got started.
PiKA Blows Lead
Trailing Pi Kappa Alpha 6-1, 
Theta Xi came from behind in 
the second period to take the 
game 27-8. In the second quarter, 
Wayne Boyd of TX intercepted a 
pass in midfield; an aerial from 
Bob Matthews to Fred Lunt was 
good for a first down on the PiKA 
20.
On third down Bill Oxley skirt
ed right end for another first
down, but the PiKA defense stiff
ened and TX lost the ball only 
two yards from paydirt. Bill McKibben kicked out for PiKA and 
Matthews returned the ball to the 
TX 20. Matthews then dropped 
back and threw t a long pass to 
Boyd for the second TX score.
IM Football Results
Newman ..............18D. Dukes ............11Beta Sigs ............11Emanon ............... 8Sigma Nu ............16Raiders ................ 7Citcom .................11SAE .....................13PiKA .................. 8
ASCE ..................14Delts ...................37ATO ....................28DU .......................23D. Dukes ............14Delts ....................27TX ........................32TX .......................27Phi Kaps ...........24
City.
FREE INSPECTION
Is your watch at home useless 
or does it keep poor time? Let 
us fix it up right with our ex
pert cleaning, oiling and re
pairs if necessary. Genuine 
parts. Scientific regulation. 
All work guaranteed by us.
Y? CFIYH./'
JEWELERS, INC.
"Your Credit Jewelers"
3702 FORBES STREET 
SC. 1-4453
The Opposition
Following is a list of scores 
showing how future Tartan 
football opponents fared in 
games played last weekend:
Ohio
CASE _13 Wesleyan . 9
W & J ... 7 Bradley Tech 19
LEHIGH .33 Gettysburg .20
GROVE
Hiram _ 6 CITY................27
The teams in capital letters 
will meet the Plaid later this 
season.
University Recreation 
C.(UFIg 
AFTERNOON BOWLING
Qw0Qw> /tyrJ Y1tBB1
SChenley 1-9307
Tartan Defense Stages 
Two Goal Line Stands
Simcic Scores Two Touchdowns
In Second Period; F&M Rallies
LANCASTER, Pa., October 15Carnegie Techs undermanned 
football squad put on two brilliant goal line stands here this after
noon to stop a rallying Franklin and Marshall team and battle the 
---------------------------------------------------? home tow'ners to a 14-14 tie..ST (MUUh
CARNEGIE14EndsWilson, Dougherty, Rowe, Wagner.TacklesMeyers, Keats, Lange, Rusnak, Galanda.GuardsStovicek, Whitenight, Wiseman, Madden.CentersTrautman, Donato.Backs-Sommer, Simcic, Metzger, Kenney. Holtz, Brourman, Luchok, Dissen, Haney.F & M14EendsHartman, Wertz, Myers, Cope, Hannum, Ebersole, Lewis.TacklesZima, Getz, Giovangrossi, Pietchke, Gedney.GuardsShallcross, Burak, Schelling, Bastian' Aiken, Shuptar, Gischissin, Mucha.CentersHarr, Beauchner, Coffey.BacksGalebach, Jiras, Lowder, Tullai, Werst, Scandiber, Brown, Cordier, West, High, Millhouse, King.Score by Quarters:Carnegie 0 14 0 014F&M 0 7 0 714ScoringCarnegie: TouchdownsSimcic 2. Points after touchdownKenney 2 (placement). F & M: TouchdownsWers, Mischissin. Points after touchdown Galebach 2 (placement).Officials: Referee: John Francella, Umpire: Thomas Kilkinson, Linesman:Ralph Farina, Field Judge: Ben Stackowski.
STATISTICSCARNEGIE F& M7............ 103........... . 93..........1....... . 0Net Yds. Rushing. .23077...........Net Yds. Passing ............ 1312..........Passes Attempted ........5............ 15........... . Intercepted By .............. 29 ... 727..........Avg. Yds. per Punt .......... 323........... . . . Fumbles .................... 33..........Bajl Lost on Fumble.. 15............ 535_____Ys. Lost Penalties ......... . 58
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICSCARNEGIERUSHINGYds.Rushs Yds. per RushLuchok4.9Simcic .1.6
Metzger1.8Kenney2.3Haney .0Sommer.............. 7 2 0.3Wilson................ 1 55
Totals ................. 44 912.1
PASSINGPasses CompleteYds.
Sommer................ 8 448
Simcic................ 2 129................ 2 0 0
Totals................ 12 577
F&MRUSHINGYs.Rushs Yds. per Rush7.9Tullai ................. 22 843.8................ 11 393.5................ 3 206.7
Others................ 10 8 0.8
Totals ................. 58 2304.0
PASSINGPasses CompleteYds.13
Werst0
Totals13
Cross Country 
Team Defeated
F&M Downs Plaid 
By 15 to 40 Score
Coach Guy Halfertys cross 
country team went down to defeat 
in their collegiate opener by a 
shutout 15 to 40 score in a dual 
meet with Franklin and Marshall 
college at Lancaster, Pa., last Sat
urday afternoon.
.Diplomat runners had little 
trouble sweeping the meet from 
their visitors who couldnt finish 
better than eighth.
Winning time over the three and 
one-quarter mile course was 18 
minutes while Captain Gene 
Cockrell, first Plaid runner, re
quired 19 minutes and 29 seconds 
to finish.
Carnegie missed the services of 
their diminutive ace Jackie Al
berts who failed to make the trip.
Next week will find the local 
harriers once again accompanying 
the football squad to Cleveland 
for a meet with Case Tech. Their 
first home engagement will be 
October 28 with Bethany college.
Dr. Eddie Bakers Tartan grid
ders cracked over two touchdowns 
in the second period of the fourth 
and what may be the final meet
ing between the tear s, but were 
unable to hold their 14 point lead.
Dips Hug Ground
The Diplomats roared back 73 
yards over the ground after the 
second score to narrow the mar
gin to 7 points, and sent the con
test into a deadlock with ten min
utes of play remaining on a 45 
yard scoring run.
Carnegies pass defense, a weak 
spot on previous occasions, was un
beatable as they intercepted five 
of the 11 passes thrown by Herb 
Galebach and Bob Werst, while 
only one went to completion.
Wind Plays Havoc
A strong wind sweeping the 
length of the field from the north 
was a deciding factor in the out
come of the play. Facing the stiff 
breeze throughout the first and 
third periods, the Tartan squad 
was constantly kept deep in their 
own territory. They were, conse
quently, forced into a defensive 
game, but proved equal to the 
task.
It took eight plays and 2 min
utes and 50 seconds of the second 
quarter for the Plaid to take ad
vantage of the now helpful wind 
and break the scoreless game.
Nick Simcic returned an F&M 
punt to his own 37 where Bobby 
Sommer failed in an attempt to 
hit Johnny Luchok with a pass. 
A second toss by the CIT quarter
back found Fritz Wilson on the 
enemy 48. Sommer then tossed 
out to Simcic who hit Wilson 
again on the Diplomat 19.
Touchdown!
F&Ms time out had no effect 
on the Plaid, for Haney hit center 
for 2 and Sommer flicked out a 
short pass to Wilson who this time 
lateraled to Simcic for the 17 yard 
touchdown play.
In less than ten minutes the 
Tartans had another score. Bob 
Werst fired a pass from his own 
23 yard line which skipped off the 
receivers finger tips and was 
picked off by Gil Dissen. Racing 
for the left sidelines, Dissen 
lateraled off to Elmer Metzger and 
the fleet foted freshman galloped 
all the way to the 3. Simcic took 
a pass out from Simmer and raced 
around right end to go over stand
ing up.
F&M Fights Back
F&M marched back after the 
kickoff and climaxed a 73 yard 
drive with Werst plunging over 
from the 2 on last down. The half 
ended five plays later.
Early in the third stanza F&M 
right end Bill Wertz blocked 
Elmer Metzgers punt and the 
Dips took over on the Tartan 11.
Two running plays carried to 
the one yard line, but the Plaid 
line dug in and took over on 
downs two plays later on their 
own 2.
Tom Haneys kick ran into the 
wind and carried out of bounds 
on the 20. The home team blasted 
out a first down on the 10, and 
then moved to the 4 where alert 
Gerry Meyers fell on a fumble by 
quarterback Bobby High.
Plaid Tires
The final score came at 6:55 of 
the fourth quarter when Steve 
Mischissin ran 45 yards through 
the tiring Plaid team to the goal 
line.

---------------------------------------------------

6TA4WAIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949
YOU SHOULDYOU KNOW
Important changes and additions to the printing administration 
curriculum at Carnegie Tech were announced this month.
Carnegies printing department, the first one in the nation to give 
a college degree in the graphic arts, is offering two new courses, 
and is changing the freshman and*
junior yoars o its four year pro< ] , 111 < lI  11 I V
New courses include one in C 
printers cost accounting, taught ira.UHOU.ll.CCS 
by Paul Randolph, treasurer of 
the William G. Johnston printing j 
company of Pittsburgh, and 5
Henry A. John, accounting manj Carnegie Tech CanterburyIager of Westinghouse Electrics j House announces that Rev.- Alan
Richardson, Canon of Durham 
Cathedral, England, will speak at 
mond Doerr of the Republic the weekly supper meeting on
Press, the second class covers inOctober 30. Rev. Richardson, sec-istruction in basic sales principles retary of the Student Christian
coupled with experience - probmovement and one of the rising
lems in selling printing. theologians of the church, has
, chosen Existentialism as hisChemistry Shifted
To better correlate academic subject-j Next Sundays speaker, Dr. 
and technical courses, the departouon Lambert, assistant hisment has shifted chemistry from ; tory professor, has selected
printing section.
Under the direction of Raythe freshman year to the junior. 
This change will cause the stu
dents to study chemistry imme
diately prior to their study of 
photo-lithography, which involves 
chemical processes and materials.
In place of chemistry, freshmen 
will now receive training in 
graphic arts processes and in de
sign. According to Stanley C. 
Hlasta, assistant head of the de
partment, early knowledge of 
these two fields will make the 
rest of the program even more 
meaningful to students.
Teaching Religion In History, 
as his topic. Future speakers in
clude: Dr. B. Von Haller Gilmer, 
psychology and education depart
ment head, November 6; Dr. Em
erson M. Pugh, physics professor, 
November 13; Rev. Alfred Hamer, 
Canon Pr^-entor at Trinity Cathe
dral, November 20.
Everyone is invited to the 
weekly 6:00 p. m. supper meetings 
at 5170 Margaret Morrison Street. 
Reservations should be made with 
Mrs. Mary Brenton before Friday 
noon preceding the Sunday at 
which attendance is desired.
Glee ClubStudent Symphony 
To Hold Concert
Adds T oiccs On Founders Oay
Carnegie Tech Mens Glee Club, 
under the dhection of Professor 
William Schaefer, added 25 new 
voices to its ranks as a result of 
its recent auditions this fall. 
There is now a total of 54 mem
bers in the organization.
The Glee Club plans to sing for 
Call Day and the crowning of the 
Freshman Queen, during Home
coming week, Friday, November 
11. They are also making plans 
for the Spring Concert in March.
As a part of the Founders Day 
of Carnegie Institute Program to
morrow, the Tech Student Sym
phony under the direction of Dr. 
Dorian, head of the music depart
ment, will present a half hour 
concert at 8:00 p. m. in Carnegie 
Music Hall. This concert will be 
in connection with the exhibitions 
of painting, drama, dance, and 
other arts featuring the work of 
prominent Americans in the vari
ous fields.
Sigma Nu Pla ys Divisional Host; 
Theta XiTo Entertain President
Carnegie Tech will be the 
meeting place this year for the 
annual division meeting of Sigma 
Nu fraternity, Delta Sigma, the 
Carnegie chapter of Sigma Nu, 
will play host to fraternity chap
ters from three other schools.
Over one hundred men, not in
cluding alumni, will arrive here 
Saturday noon. The two-day 
meeting will include business and 
fraternity discussions, sports, a 
dance, and an open house.
At one-thirty Saturday after
noon Delta Sigma will meet Ep
silon of Bethany in a touch foot
ball game. Following this, Epsilon 
Psi of Westminster will play 
Gamma Pi chapter of West Vir
ginia University. The winner of 
each contest will then engage in 
a playoff for the first place cup.
The sports will be followed by 
a dance at Thistle Hall Saturday 
evening. All sorority and frater
nity presidents and social chair
men are cordially invited.
Sunday meetings at the house 
will conclude the program.
Theta Xisnew national presi
dent, Lu Haus'ein, will be at CIT 
on Friday, October 28, to deliver 
the main address at a dinner 
meeting being held by the TX 
alumni club of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Robert Rotbfus, professor in 
the chemical engineering depart
ment, will serve as toastmaster 
for the banquet, which is being 
held in the faculty dining room.
HOUGH DRY 
LAUNDRY 
Washed and Dried
SAME DAY 
SERVICE
SHIRTS
washed and finished
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.
HANGOVER
When you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
Everybody talks about PLEASURE, but 
only ONE cigarette has really done something about it. 
That cigarette is 6CARAE GILLAST
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And 6CARAE GILLAS is the ONE cigarette proved 
dfinitely less irritating, definitely milder, 
than any other leading brand.
NO OTHER CIGARETTE 
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
YOULL BE GLAD TOMORROW
YOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRIS TODAY!
Printing Dept. 
Alters Curriculum
Chemistry Shifted To Junior Year; 
Selling Accounting Courses Added
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT (ENTER GRILL
,5G, Lrc1a NmBAoB
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
For a Fine Place To Eat 
You Just Can't Beat
THE COLLEGE SPOON
LOCATED AT 
CRAIG AND FORBES
TYPING - ALL KINDS
orse Service 
Very Reasonable
PHONE MA, 1-4319

---------------------------------------------------

P TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 199TAIWAN7
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti' 
tute of Technology.
Co-editors ..................................... George Schussler, Robert Ellstrom
Circulation Managers .. Richard Van Halinger, Anthony Barbarino 
Reporters .. . Frank Mihelich, Allen Hempshire, LeRoy Stoutenburg, 
V Jr., Hazel Moore, Michael Gittens, Marilyn Weiss, Hairy Mattern
Appreciation
The students in Evening School are fortunate to have such 
'excellent instructors available to them at Carnegie Tech. Most 
of these men are employed in business and industry during'the 
day. This is advantageous to the evening student because the 
instructor can give him the benefit of his own personal ex
periences in addition to the theoretical knowledge garnered in 
y the classroom.
The fact that these men, whether full-time faculty mem
bers or not, are working extra hours the same as the student 
gives all a common field of endeavor. In fact, many of the in
structors are also attending school part-time, working toward 
their masters or doctors degree.
Their sacrifices in time and effort are no less than those of 
the most conscientious evening student. They appreciate honest 
endeavor and cooperation on the part of the student body.
YfBsryd UoAsaBZ cXt 
Y1opBA1Z yAp CoZrABZZlBA
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
BambooGardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 1-7493
Students Are Welcomed at
ST. ANDREWS
Lutheran Church
11 A. M. Worship 
10 A. M. Bible Classes 
6 P. M. Youth Supper,
2nd & 4th Sun. .
HEADQUARTERS: LUTHERAN 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
N GwurAo1B (yde" 
uXtBkXXp  /BA1tB NmBZ?
uyeB "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 1-2964
MW
k
TIBS  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORT SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
from HARVARD 
to HAWAII U.
(you'll find ARROW in the best stores)
Yes sir! Near practically 
every college you'll find 
a campus shop or de
partment store where you 
can buy Arrow shirts.
Arrow makes many of its 
products especially for 
college men and has ad
vertised in college 
publications for over 
forty years.
When you need a few 
new shirtsshirts that 
will look well, fit well, 
and really wear and 
wash well see your 
Arrow dealer. $3.65 up.
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Write for your free copy of "The 
What, When and Wear of Men'* Clothing." College Dept., Cluett, Pea
body & Co., Inc., 10 E. 40th St., N. Y. 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
News
And
Views
Now comes a written suggestion 
that we change the title of our 
column to something original, but 
we feel that there is more wrong 
with News And Views than its 
head, but would rather discuss it 
out of print.
Our hurrahs this week are di
rected towards John Miller, So
cial Chairman of Evening Student 
Council, for his well organized 
plan for, handling council social 
affairs. John is Secretary-Treasurer of the Wilkinsburg Rotarians, and is also carry a heavy 
school schedule. Here is proof 
enough that if you want some
thing done well, choose a busy 
man to do it.
Did some one say school spirit? 
Roy Stoutenburg offered a free 
round trip to the Carnegie TechFranklin and Marshall game. Sat
urday, October 15, to more than 
56 day and evening school stu
dents, but not even one took Roy 
up on his offer.
The team deserves the support 
of day and evening students, and 
its about time that the students 
crawled out of their shells and ac
quired a bit of social spirit that 
should be consistent with active 
minds.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes.
Big Ice (ream (ones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Swing Your Partner 
At Masquerade Dance
Si Braleyrs Orchestra Will Play 
For Square Dance On October 29
All jump up and never come down,
Swing your partner round and round,
Alemand left, grand right and left,
Meet your partner and promenade.
At Thistle Hall, October 29 you will hear these familiar lines 
and many more when the first scheduled Evening School Masquerade 
Square Dance gets under way at 8:30 p. m. No fancy duds are re
quired, plaid shirts, jeans and overalls are in order for this affair, 
and a prize will be given for the^
best dressed couple in square 
dancing outfits. Get into the farm
yard swing and see if you can 
win the committees prize.
If you are a little shy about the 
idea of square dancing, you 
havent a thing to worry about be
cause Si Braley and his orchestra 
will be on hand to give instruc
tions and provide the music.
Tickets are now on sale at 75 
cents per person and can be pur
chased from anyone on the Dance 
Committee, Council Members, or 
from Mr. McKelway in the Reg
istrars Office, Room 132-B. If 
none of these people are available 
before the night of the dance, 
come anyway because tickets will 
be sold at the door.
The social committee advises 
getting to the dance early so as 
not to miss any of the instruc
tions.
JUBALAIRES
NIO
WES PARKER'S 
ORCHESTRA
Bill Green's
D.RHM KG
OCT. 14-22
Students Asked 
T o Cooperate 
With Groups
At present our social chairman, 
John Miller, is apportioning to 
commitees various phases of *:he 
work involved in arranging so
cial affairs. Each committee will 
be composed of a small number 
of peoplea number smaller than 
we prefer. Some of the commit
tees are over-burdened; the com| mittee in charge of ticket sales 
will be too small to contact all of 
! the students who would enjoy at
tending our dances. An ideal or
ganization would provide a rep
resentative in every class. In the 
meantime, a few more assistants 
would be very helpful.
We realize that a number of 
students are unable to work with 
us. There are others waiting for 
a litle push to stir them into ac
tion, and if we could locate them 
they would readily lend their 
suport. We only wish that they 
would realize how much easier 
it is for them to find us than tor 
us to find them. If it becomes nec
essary to search for these stu
dents, we will do so, but first we 
invite any person wishing to par
ticipate in activities to communi
cate with us. The address is: 
Evening Student Council, Car
negie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Through the use of standing 
committees, the work can be done 
efficiently and each member will 
feel that he is accepting a share 
of the responsibilities. We' believe 
that the organization will profit 
from the idea, and trust that the 
necessary cooperation will be ob
tained.
Can You Defend Your Faith?
For an authoritative and interesting dis
cussion of the ABCs of faith, faculty 
members and students are cordially in
vited to attend a series of sermons by one 
of the nations outstanding preachers, 
Dr. Ansley C. Moore, of the Sixth United 
Presbyterian Church in East Liberty. 
Subjects for the next few weeks include 
Lets Talk About God, How Do We 
Know God Exists?, and Why Do We 
Believe in the Trinity?'
HEAR DR. MOORE AT 11 A. M. 
EVERY SUNDAY
DR. ANSLEY C. MOOEE, 
Pastor Sixth United Presby
terian Church, President Al
legheny County Council of 
Churches, noted author and 
lecturer.
YF_HS RIFHMO -DMYCHMDFNI /SRD/S
N. Highland Avenue and Station Street
HN'M SFgSUNIO /ND IX? 0,
The Committee on Attendance
M_/MUUMIH -ND'FIg LN/FUFHFMY

---------------------------------------------------

/ /N AMER/CAS COUEGES 
? W/M r//E TOP MEM /N SPORTS 
W/TH Tf/E HOLLYWOOD STARSriey're Af/lffi/ Ke/'re TOPS/'
I KNOW YOU'LL
LIKE CHESTERFIELDS
THEY'RE MUCH MILDER
IT'S MY CIGARETTE
TAVAIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949
Bulletin Board
Sunday Supper Meeting 
To Be Held By YMCA
The YMCA will hold a supper 
meeting at the Carnegie Union on 
October 23. All students are urg
ed to make reservations at the 
YMCA office before Wednesday, 
October 19.
Future Sunday evening meet
ings will include discussions on 
Catholicism, Protestantism, Judeism, and other religious sects. 
These meetings will begin 
promptly at 7 p. m. in the Car
negie Union.
ASCE Plans Smoker 
For All CE Students
Movies, eats, and smokes will 
be served to all civil engineering 
students Thursday at 8 p. m. in 
the Carnegie Union. The ASCE 
will charge 25 cents for admis
sion.
MMCC Secretarial Club 
To Hold Halloween Party
The Secretarial Club will hold 
a Hallowe'en Party for members 
and their friends on October 20, 
from 4:00 to 5:30 p. m. in Recre
ation Hall, MMCC.
Miss Ann Swartz will entertain 
by giving several Pennsylvania 
Dutch monologues.
UWF Plans Luncheon 
Poll On School Sentiment
Carnegies chapter of the Unit
ed World Federalists will hold a 
luncheon Saturday at 12:30 in the 
Skibo Coffee Shop. McLean W. 
McLean, Pittsburgh Regional Di
rector of UWF, will be the speak
er.
A poll will begin this week to 
determine school opinion on the 
UWF and on an effective world 
government through a stronger 
United Nations.
English Dept. 
Schedules Talks 
On Literature
This year the department of 
English plans to offer a series of 
informal talks on topics of liter
ary interest. The talks will be 
given in MMCC 103 at 3 p. m. on 
certain Tuesday afternoons 
throughout the year.
Tentative schedule for the first 
semester is as follows: October 18, 
S. W. Lipsman, The Dramatist as 
American; November 1, Dorothy 
Goodfellow, A Defense of Jane 
Austen; November 15, William 
R. Palmer, Ernest Hemingway; 
November 29, John A. Hart, T.
S. Eliot, Critic; December 13, 
Earle R. Swank, T. S. Eliot, 
Poet; January 10, S. Orville 
Baker, The Victorian Stake.
Citcommentator
Citcommentator wants fea
ture writers, copyreaders, re
porters, and typists. A meeting: 
will be held tom >rrow in room 
B, Carnegie Union at 4:30 p. m. 
No previous experience is need
ed to become a staff member.
Edited and written by Citcom 
members, the paper is the of
ficial publication of the Clan.
M_-MDH DM-NFDY
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. t-4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
25 YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
3 HR. SERVICE 
On Dry Cleaning 
 
RAINCOATS
Showerproofed
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.
