General Assembly 
Today 11:30 
Music Hailmir tau
 NoSchoolWashingtons 
Birthday, Wednesday, 
j February 22
VOL. XVI. NO. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1922
CAMPUS WEEK 
WILL BE LAST 
WEEK IN MAY
Committee Has, Decided on 
May 25,26 and 27 as Dates 
For the Annual Campus 
Celebration
APPOINT CHAIRMEN
The Campus Weelc Committee have 
started making preparations for the 
annual Carnegie Tech Campus Week 
and are planning to hold the events 
on the 25th, 26th and 27th of May. 
They "wish to announce that any sug
gestions from the student body in re
gard to a substitute for the Circus 
will he very welcome or in case the 
Circus is continued in the program of 
events any student or group who can 
put on a stunt or act should notify 
the Circus Committee so that a good 
Circus can he arranged.
The officers of the General Campus 
Week Committee are: P. J. Unzicker, 
chairman; R. H. Humbert, secretary; 
J. T. Ames, treasurer.
The chairmen of the sub-committee 
have been appointed and are as fol
lows : Dan Cassidy, Publicity Commit
tee; Fritz Bowers. Campus Decora
tion Committee; C. F. Johnston, 
Building Construction Committee; H.
O. Sprinkle, Electrical Construction 
Committee; A. D. Jenner, Social Com
mittee; V. H. Stromquist, Campus 
Week Parade Committee; J. L. Her
man, Qualification Day and The Call; 
J. G. Byler, Athletic Events Commit
tee; R. E. Hedlund, Sweepstakes 
Committee; Webb Cunningham, Cir
cus Committee.
> GENERAL ASSEMBLY MUSIC 
* HALL TODAYTO AWARD ?
* FOOTBALL LETTERS
* Musical entertainment will he *> 
v the feature of General Assembly * 
v at the Music Hall today. Football 
v insignia will also be awarded to * 
*!* the men who have won their v
* letter in that sport the past sea*
* son. *
* Alpha Alpha Nu will announce *'*
-> elections to that organization, ? 
*!? and advance information on *!*
* Campus Week will be given to *
*1* the students. *>
* +
? * * * * * * *:* * * * * * * * * ?>
Life Insurance Research 
Bureau Holds Meeting
To Make Visits to Various 
Insurance Companies
The executive committee of Life 
Insurance companies, which have or
ganized a bureau for research in Life 
Insurance at Carnegie Tech, held 
their first meeting here February 4.
Six members were, present at this 
meeting. They were as follows: Mr.
Oliver Thui'man, Superintendent of 
Agencies of the Mutual Benefits Life 
Insurance Company, elected chair
man; Mr. George Hunt, Superinten
dent of Agencies for the Guardian 
Life Insurance Company, New York, 
elected vice chairman; President 
Philip Burnett, of the Continental 
Life Insurant Company; President 
Ralph Rice, of the National Fidelity 
Life Insurance Company, and Charles 
Homneyer, .Superintendent of Agen(Continued On Page Two.)
Teknon Club Holds Meeting
Dr. Baker, acting president of 
Carnegie Tech, spoke a few words at 
the Teknon Club meeting last Thurs
day evening. He expressed the ap
preciation of the .school and of the 
students for the kindnesses shown 
them by the officials of the Shadyside 
Presbyterian church.
There will he a Student Volunteer 
Conference at Washington and Jeffer
son College Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday of this week. Carnegie and 
Pitt will both be well represented.
PRIZES AWARDED IN
POSTER CONTEST
The Painting and Illustration De
partment of the College of Fine Arts 
held a competition for Posters on 
the Arts tall. The competition was 
open to all classes and prizes con
sisting of passes to the ball were 
awarded the best five posters.
There were twenty-one posters in 
the competition, and the five picked 
as being the best were done by 
Mildred Clarke, Florence Glafey, 
Ruth George, Cathrine Eisman and 
Mr. Louden Campbell.
THE LUTHERAN STUDENT
CLUB TO GIVE PARTY
The Lutheran Student Club of the 
University of Pittsburgh, Pennsyl
vania College for Women and Car
negie Tech will hold its regular meet
ing and social Friday evening Febru
ary 17, at 8 p. m., at the First Luther
an Church, Grant street near Sixth 
avenue. This club was organized to 
hrlng Lutheran students together in 
social meetings, so now that exams 
are over, lets all go and show Ye 
Ole Tech 'Spirit.
GIRLS MUSICAL 
CLUBS SCORE HIT
Enthusiastically Received by 
Large Audience at 
Bellevue
The Glee 'Club and Stringers were 
very enthusiastically received in 
Bellevue Friday night. The two 
clubs were well trained and were 
assisted by Miss Harmon as 'leader. 
The special numbers, Mrs. Elliots 
solo, Stringer Trio, Miss Davies solo 
and the readings proved especially 
popular. The program:
(a) Alma Mater
(b) May Day Carol
Gleo Club.
The Sheik .............................Stringers
(a) Tho Gypsy Trail
(b) The Lightning Bug
Glee Club 
Piano Solo ..................Lenore Davies
(a) Everybody Step
(b) Ten Little FingersTen Little
Toes
Stringers.
Bendemeers Stream..Glee Club
Tuclcy Home.........Gladys Elliot
PART II.
Trio
Florence Lutz 
Margaret Coombs 
Lenore Davis
(a) Come, Come, Singing 
They Thought, (quartet)
Glee Club.
I Hear You Calling Me
(b) Sally
Stringers.
Reading ..............Marguerite Harmon
(a) Wabash Blues 
Its You
Stringers.
(a) Medley of Old Songs
(b) Dear Old CarnegieDear Old 
Tech
Glee Club.
(a)
(b)
(b)
(a)
(b)
CONFERENCE ON 
EDUCATION TO 
BE HELD HERE
President Hamerschlag Will 
be in Charge. Sessions to 
be Open to the Public. Sec
ond Large Conference
MUSICAL RECITAL IN
THE ARTS THEATER
SUNDAY EVENING
NOTED MEN INVITED
Musical Clubs Leave To-day 
For Annual Trip Through Ohio
At noon today forty musical en
gineers, members of the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs, will leave on their 
annual trip to Ohio. A most success
ful trip, both financially and socially, 
is assured.
The Tech Novelty Orchestra, 
which will accompany the clubs on 
the trip, leaves Cleveland on Sunday 
and will go to Buffalo to play at 
the annual Carnegie night at the 
Scalp and Blade Club House. Car
negie Tech Alumni in Buffalo and 
vicinity will be hosts. 
Carnegie Tech will be the scene 
of the second large national confer
ence to develop closer co-operation 
between education and business oji 
May 1 and 2. This conference will 
be ol nation-wide importance, and 
will be represened by noted authori
ties of both education and business, j 
The principal purpose of this con
ference, according to the announce
ment of Commissioner of Education 
John T. Tigert, will be the construc
tion of a co-operatiove program con
necting education and business for 
the better co-ordination of all pro
ductive and distributive processes in 
trade and commerce.
President Arthur A. Hamerschlag is 
a member of tihe Committee on Com
mercial Engineering, and will be , in 
charge of the conference. According 
to Dr. Glen Levin Swigget, specialist 
in commercial engineering and the 
Bureau of Education, chairman of 
the Committee on Commercial Engi
neering, this conference will have 
greater significance than the first 
public conference on this subject 
held here in 1919.
Announcement Is made that all sesions will be open to the public. En
gineering societies will be invited to 
send representatives; as likewise the 
commercial and trade organizations 
will be invited to attend. 1
The major topics of the confer
ence, Dr. Swiggett said, will be 
discussed at general and round lab.'e 
sessions. It is planned to make this 
second conference even more conBy students of the ^Department of 
Music.
Recital.
Sunday, February 19, 1922, at S:15 
p. m.
1. Boellmann'Suite Gothique
1. Choral
2. Menuet  Gothique
3. Priere a Notre Dame
4. Toccata 
Matthew N. Frey.
2. GriegSonata for piano and vio
lin. Op. 13 S',
Lento-AUegro. vivace 
Gertrude Robinson, - Marie Kleyle.
3. Liszt. Etude (Ricbordanza) 
Chopin. Etude. Op. 25, No. 12
Alice Kirk.
4. Saint-Saenns. Violoncello
c.erto, No. 2 i
Allegro
Stewart Blackmore
5. MozartQuinette No. 6 
Clarinet, two Violins, Viola and 
Cello
Allegro
Ernest Marini, Marie Kleyle. Armand 
Venditti, Adolpli Herzberg, Stewart 
Blackmore.
Accompanist, Dorothy Cummings.
GRAD. MANAGER 
REVIEWS STATUS 
C. I. T. ATHLETICS
Confor
Discontinuance of Some Min
or Sport Not Favorable to 
Athletic Council. Report 
Shows Growth of Athletics j
RECORD GRID SEASON
PHYSICISTS MEET 
AT TORONTO
Reports Given at Meetings of 
Physics Colloquium 
During January
There were four meetings of the 
Physics Colloquiurp of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology during Janu
ary. The first two meetings were 
devoted to reports on tho meeting of 
tho American Physical Society which 
was held in Toronto from Decembor 
28 to December 30, in affiliation with 
Section B of the American Associa
tion for the Advancement of Scionco. 
The reports on these meetings wore 
made by Dr. L. O. Grondahl and Pro
fessor T. C. MacKay. Thero were 
74 papers on the'Physics program In
addition to notoworthy addresses by 
struclive than the first, since which Professor Theodore Lyman, president 
time the curricula of 29 of the 119 j of tho Physical Society, and by Proanglneering colleges reporting to fessor J. C. McLennan, the. retiring 
the Buroau of Education have been| chairman of the Physics section of 
favorably modified to include ono the American Association. Tho inter*
or more of the four committee rec
ommendations.
The most important subject to be 
taken up at the conference will be 
the solution of new problems that 
have arisen recently In modern in
dustry and commerce. These new 
problems require a more scientific 
approach in training methods. Our 
engineering and commercial sehoolo 
must give a more understanding so
lution of the problems that the mod
ern engineer will meet in active work. 
Co-lncidont with this, will be the 
training of the engineer for manage
ment of overseas engineering pro
jects.
Among those expected to attoiul 
are A. C. Bedford, chairman of tho
national character . t r the gathering 
was indicated by the reading ol! pa
pers by representatives from McGill 
University, the University of Toronto, 
Queens University, and the Unlvorslty of British Columbia, although tho 
great majority of tho speakors were 
from the Unltod States. One of tho 
notable figures of tho convention was 
Dr. Ludwik Silborstoln, formerly of 
the University of Romo and now of 
the Eastman Kodak Company. Among 
the American Physicists present woro 
Professors Mllllkan of tho now Cali
fornia Institute of Technology, Wobster of Clark University, Mendenhall 
of tho University ol! Wisconsin, and 
Dr. Footo ol! the Buroau of Standards. 
Tho papers given at the mooting Indi*
Board' of' Directors, Standard oul^ol that physicists well a chert
Company, New York; Frank H. Con
stant, head of civil engineering de(Continued on Page Three.)
NIGHT SCHOOL ELECTS
OFFICERS FOR YEAR
j At a night school smoker recently 
the following officers were elected: 
J. A. Irwin, president.
C. P. Hober, vice president.
Mr. Meyers, secretary .
Mr. Lambeijt, treasurer.
H. J. Koontz, Student Activity Rep
resentative.
Mr. Jenkins, Thistle Representa
tive.
T. R. Searson, Tartan Representa
tive.
ARTS ASSEMBLY
Arts Assembly last week was very 
short and most of the time was ds-, 
voted to discussing finer details rela
tive to the ball.
Chairmen of the various sub-com
mittees reported progress. The rest 
of the time was devoted to announce
ments.
PROF. WORK SPEAKS AT
MEETING OF RADIO CLUB
The Radio Club of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology held a very 
interesting meeting Wednesday night, 
February 8. Professor Work, head 
of the Electrical Department in Sci
ence School, gave a discussion on 
the Methods in Designing Induction 
Coils.
These jj -petings are held on the 
second ai I fourth Wednesdays of 
the mont>  questions of vital interest
o Radiof (oeing the subjects diseas
ed. An; person interested in radio 
ork is/ j|ivited to attend.
TAU GAMMA PHI
HOLDS FORMAL DANCE
Last Friday evening the members 
of Tau Gamma Phi held their annual 
formal dinner dance at the University 
Club from 7:30 to 12. About 35 cou
ples attended.
It was a most enjoyable occasion, 
dancing following each course and 
the remainder of the evening being 
followed with dancing and entertain
ment. French bracelets with a lider 
bearing the fraternity seal were the 
favora for the girls.
Robert Sawhill delighted with 
solos, while Miss Ruth Zeider, pupil 
of the Karl Heinrich School of Dane-1
PARRY MEMORIAL ROOM 
TO BE OPENED TODAY
Today at 5 the Frances Camp Par
ry Memorial Room will be opened to 
the; students, faculty and adminis
tration. The Parry Room is the small 
room to the right of the East door of 
the C. I. T. Library Building, and has 
been fitted up for quiet leisurely 
reading.
As a memorial to Miss Frances 
Camp Parry the former head of the 
English Department, this room has 
been furnished as a library. The 
books now in the collection are the 
nucleus of a future collection and 
were Miss Parrys boons, represents1 
tiye of her own high standards and 
love of good books. .
Ists are making great progress In 
plaining atomic structure. Sir Ernest 
Rutherford is attacking tho vory 
citadel of the atom, tho nucleus It
self. Ono of the features of tho moot
ing was tho exhibition of proposed 
models of the atomic nucleus Illus
trating Rutherfords .latest discov
eries. The General Electric Com
pany showed moving pictures illus
trating some of the facts of molecu
lar and atomic structure!
At the meeting of the Colloquium 
held on January 18, Mr. W. J. Staley 
described a piezo-electrlc method of 
measuring explosion pressures. This 
method has been used to measure the 
velocity of sound in water. At the 
same meeting Mr. L. E. Emerich de
scribed a method of measuring the 
vapor pressure of metallic calcium at 
various temperatures. This methodhas been used by Pilling at the Westinghouse Research Laboratory. Mr. 
Gerald Harper showed a method of 
using a galvanometer to produce a
 (Continued on Page Three.
MANUFACTURERS CONFER
WITH PERSONNEL BUREAU
Dr. Yoakum left on February 8 on
relation to manufacturers of Detroit 
and Cleveland.
The executives of the White Motor 
Co. were in recent conference with 
Dr. Bingham, Dr. Yoakum and other 
members of the research bureau.
Prizes For Architects
Offered by Beaux Arts
The Seniors of the Architectural 
Department finished a design of a 
business for the Personnel Bureau in j BaiChelor-s City Residence' on
Wednesday midnight, February 8. 
The solutions were varied and well 
done. The judgment for these prob
lems will be held in New York City 
February 21.
On Friday. February 10 the Sen 
iors took an Esquisse or made pre
liminary sketches for a Municipal 
Auditorium. The Municipal Art So
ciety offers two prizes for the-best, 
two solutions. The first prize Jo 
$50, and the second is $25. The! 
problem is due on March 20,
The Juniors of the department 
were engaged in a ten-hour sketch 
on A Walling Pavilion for a Trolley 
Line." Tho best solution of this 
will receive a prize of $50, The 
problems are to bo judged in Nov/' 
York April 11.
ALPHA TAU INITIATION
AND BANQUET
On Saturday evening, February 11, 
an initiation and banquet, of tho 
Alpha Tau , Honorary Fraternity was 
held at the Fort Pitt Hotel. At this 
time the following men were admit
ted to membership in the fraternity:
FacultyW. B. Jones.
SeniorsT. J. Kickler, D. D. Dimanccsco.
JuniorsW. H. Douglas, B. J. 
Lynch, E. F. Beach, C. A. Burnell,
B. N. Greenlaw, E. P. Geary,, B. R. 
Blever, F. R. Trechsel.
Immediately following the inltiaA number of questions and queries 
having come in from different quar
ters with reference to present and 
future financial status of tho Athletic 
Association, the amount of money re
ceived net from the C. I. T. Athletic 
Association Extension Fund drive last 
year, and other points having to do 
with the athletic policy as adminis
tered by the Athletic Council, it has 
appeared advisable, although such 
uiforntation luis appeared at one time 
or another, to give out some state
ments that would in a fow words 
sum up the points above suggested. 
The first complete fiscal year under 
the guidance of the Athletic Council, 
extended from September 1st, 1920, 
to August 31st, 1921. Directly previ
ous to this time tho financial prob
lem had been temporarily taken care 
of by a unanimous free-will donation 
of $5 each on the part of each day 
student of the winter boforo as well 
as a modest fund ratsod among loyal 
alumni who pledged themsolvos for 
a stated amount each year to tho 
Capital Fund, and by appropriation 
made directly by tho Institute from
C. I. T. funds. Tho total of money 
coming from these throe sources, ap
proximately $32,000, to which was 
added during the year about $8.000 In 
gate receipts, made a total of $'10.000, 
with which to runtho business of tho 
Athletic Association for tho year of 
Soptombor, 1919. to Soptombor. 1920. 
Tho disbursements of the At.hlotlo As
sociation during this yoar was cldse 
to $32,500, leaving a favora bio bal
ance of $7,500, which monoy was In
vested in bonds and which was roally 
the' capital of tho association at tho 
start of Its fiscal yoar boglnnlng on 
Soptombor 1st, 1.920.
/ Tho budget of tho graduate man
ager as presented about thin tlttiOi 
clearly Indicated that If tho policy 
of enlarging and increasing our ath
letic prestige was to bo fostered as 
doslrod by tho alumni and students, 
that tho athletic foo collected from 
tho student body would bo far from 
.sufficient to pay tho running oxpenso 
of the association, which involved 
larger costs in coaching personnel, 
administrative oxponso. malntonanoo, 
equipment, etc.
This budget further showod that If 
tho idoas of the Council In expand
ing and enlarging tho scope or our 
athletics were to bo carried out, that 
our present rqoolpl'8 would bo at toast 
$1.0,000 loss than enough to carry on, 
this deficit to probably appear for 
at least two and maybe throe years. 
It was vory evident that either a def
inite retrenchment of all sports 
would have to take place or some ono 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
WAR PICTURES TO BE 
SHOWN HERE FEB. 21
On February 21 the Military Depart
ment will show what Is said to bo 
the most remarkable moving picture 
film of war scenes ever produced. 
Those pictures were taken on the act
ual battlefield and the camera and 
operator were under fire practically 
all the time. The film is so valuable 
that the War Department refuses to 
send the film except in the custody 
of a special messenger to carry the 
film, supervise its operation and re
turn it to Washington. The film can 
be shown but one day and this will 
be as above stated, on February 21.
In order to allow as many as possi
ble to witness this film, the film will 
be run1 in Room 304 Industries at 
11:30 a. m, 1:30 and 3:30 p. m. The 
Military Department extends a cor
dial invitation for any of these show
ings to the faculty, administration 
and student body, and any of their 
friends. At 11:30 a. m. members of 
the R. O. T. C. will attend the lecture 
but there will be plenty of room for 
others at that time also.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
TO HOLD HINDU NIGHT
IN UNION FRIDAY
ANNUAL SCHOLARSHIP BY 
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
HELD AT RITTENHOUSE
The Annual Scholarship Dance Of 
the College of Fine Arts will bo held 
this year at tho Rittenhouse, Wed
nesday. February 22, 1922, at 8:30.
THIS IS A HOLIDAY 
THIS IS GEORGES BIRTHDAY 
WHERE ARE YOU TWO GOING 
THAT NIGHT?
THE RITTENHOUSE 
Admission $2.50Collegiate Six  
with new musictwelve new num
bers.
No Tables!
Management Alpha Kappa Psl Fra
ternity. Tiskets may be had at 
Arts office or at the Rittenhouse. 
Remember February 22.
Quite Informal.
ALLEGHENY FIVE 
LOSES TO FAST 
TARTAN SQUAD
Alleghenys Team Work Near 
Close of Game Threatens to 
Overcome Carnegie Lead 
Anderson Stars
NO STAGS ALLOWED 
AT THE ARTS BALL
Large Number of Patrons 
InvitedBegins at 
Nine oclock
Just a fow more days and the 
ninth annual Art Students 
Ball will become a thing 
of reality. For the past two weeks 
nearly everybody at Arts has been 
doing somtliings or other to> make 
this an unlimited success. Already 
the foyer, corridor and exhibition 
room have boon so completely trans
formed that a stranger would won
der It lio wore still in tho UnlCad 
States.
Students have boon doslgnlng and 
making their own costumes, doing 
construction work, painting, decorat
ing, producing a play from boglnnlng 
to end, in fact gaining a vory prac
tical knowledge which is a largo 
hart of their art education. This is 
the big chance of tho whole yoar 
when tho entire sludont body gots 
an unexcelled opportunity to; put 
tholr theories into practice.
And speaking of thoorlosthere's 
an old one which will bo carried out 
to tho totter In connection with this 
batl, and that Is tho ono that Thero 
Is a maid for every man, and conse
quently no man will bo adinlttod to 
tho ball without a girl. So all yo 
would-bo stags, got yo busy'tlsn't 
too lato yet, and when you nil lo 
Cot no bo siiro that you wear tho 
proper costume, . for the costuino 
committee will carefully scrutinize 
ovory oostume. ovon before tho pass 
Is looked at and anyone not fulfill
ing tho requirements will ho humid 
from attondanco.
At six oclock tho building will 
bo closed and no ono oxcopl: those 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
FINAL SCORE 28 to 26
Annual Night School Dance 
To be Held in Union 1'eb. 18
On 'Saturday night, February J.8. 
1022, tho Night Students of tho Col
lege of 'Industries tiro going to give 
a dance In tho Cam ogle Union. Tho 
Too Is $1.00 per couple. Como on 
Night Students and show that oldtime Tool Spirit by being thero. 
Dancing will bo from 8 to 12 p. m.
MENORAH SOCIETY NEWS
The next meeting of tho soeioty 
will bo held on Sunday, February 19, 
at 3:00 p. m. In Room 102, Design 
School. A surprise Is in Store for all 
attending this mooting. Watch tho 
bulletin boards for announcements.
Thursday evening, February 23, 
Rabbi Louis F. Newman will address 
a joint meeting of tho Monorail So
cieties of Tech and Pitt on "The 
Challenge of tho New Generation. 
Rabbi Newman Is associate rabbi of 
Temple Israel, Now York City, and 
was for five years associated with 
Rabbi Stephen S. Wise. He has trav
eled extensively on behalf of the In
tercollegiate Menorah Association, of 
which he was president for several 
years. I-Ie is a very able speaker, and 
a large turnout is expected for this 
meeting. Announcement of meeting 
place will be given out later. Hold 
tills date open, and tell your friends 
about it.
DEBATING ASSOCIA
TION TO MEET
REV. MacGOWAN NEXT
SPEAKER AT CHAPEL
Mr. Davis, the secretary, has been 
very fortunate In getting gobd speakt tion, a banquet was served. Tho 
ing, gave a Interpretive dance, The. makers 1{st included Director MorFraternity Rose. j ris, J. W. Batman, J. J. McCarthy, ers for the weekly chapel services
Patronesses and chaperons w'ere: D. D. Dimancesco and several memat the Arts Theater. For the coming 
Mrs. W. L. Scales, Mrs. N. B. Johnber" of the Monday he has been able to bring a
con Mrs R E Burdick.  Alpha Tau is a national honorary j tm well known to the student body,
*-* fraternity covering the field of ir ' 'ery fine speaker, Rev. Robert MacThe Collegiate Siv were at their dUstria.l arts, and was organized ' >wan of the Bellc-fiteld Presbyterian 
best. Carnegie Tech in May, 1916. . ,urcli.
V ' t\\
The Bharah Association of Pitts
burgh, an organization of students In 
the Pittsburgh Universities and of 
Carnegie Tech, will give an evening's 
entertainment under the auspices of 
the Inter-Collegiate Cosmopolitan 
Club. The program Is one of Inter
est to all students interested In Inter
national conditions, and especially In 
India. Several short talks will be 
gU,ven and Illustrated lecture, 
followod by Hindu music. 
The cvonlng will bo closod with danc
ing In the Union and an exhibition of 
Indian art In the Faculty Club Rooms.
Program.
1. Address.
2. Hindu Music.
3. Historical Sketch of India by M. 
M. Raval,
1. Hindu Music.Mrs. Kuman Jadeja.
5. Reading.Miss Dorothy M. Auty.
6: India.Mr. Setna.
7.. American Music.
S. TMustrated Talk.Mr. Appasami.9. National Songs.
It was announced last week that 
Carnegie Teen was to take part in 
a Pentagonal debate. The following 
colleges will be met: Westminster,
Thiel, Geneva and Grove City. The 
question decided upon is: Resolvad, 
Congress should enact legislation 
which will give the Railway Labor 
Board full power Lo enforce its de
cisions, consltutlonality conceded.
The next meeting of the associa
tion will be Thursday, February 1(1 
at 7 p. m. All members should he 
out as I he meeting will bo Import
ant,
8TUDENT COUNCIL MEET8.
W. E. LANGE APPOINTED 
CHAIRMAN PONT SYSTEM COM,
Win. E. Lange has been appointed 
chairman of tho Point System Com
mittee. Albert May and John G. By
ler were appointed as advisers in 
handling the work. Juniors will be 
appointed on the committee and from 
these will be selected the chairman 
for next year.
Other Important matters were dis
cussed but definite action v/as with
held.
Last Saturday night in the Tech 
gym the Carnegie Tech basket ball 
team defeated the Allegheny College 
five by the score of 2S-26.
Carnegie Tech started the game 
with Newman jumping center, Gibson and Anderson playing forward po
sitions and Bell and Allen guards'. 
This combination played throughout 
the game as neither team made any 
substitutions. Newman started the 
scoring for Carnegie a few seconds 
after tho game started by registering 
a basket from a difficult angle and 
Anderson immediately counted an
other point by shooting tho first foul 
of the game. At the .end of tho first 
half Carnegie led by the score of 20- 
1G.
The second half started with both 
teams trying their hardest to cage 
the ball and in tholr efforts to play 
fast basket ball many unintentional 
fouls were committed by both teams. 
Alleghenys splendid team work time 
and time again threatened to over
come Carnoglos small load and dur
ing tho last quarter of tho game they 
bewildered the Carnegie Tech defense 
with a sorlos of llghtnlng-llko passes, 
carrying tho ball down the court only 
to loso It to Bell or Allen aftor miss
ing tho shot at the basket.
(Contlnuod On Pago Two.)
Hold Post Ball Dance 
In Arts Foyer Sat.
All Tech InvitedElaborate 
DecorationsTax .$1.50
On Saturday night, Fobruary 1,8, 
tho College ol! Fine Arts will throw 
open tho doors of tholr school and 
welcome tholr friends of tho other 
schools to view Ancient Spain as 
they havo conceived) and expressed It. 
Weeks ol! planning and decorating 
by various student ha Vo caused 
this change, making It posslblo to 
Imagine one's self In that far off 
country whero life Is different. Amid 
these enchantments and decorations 
the Collegiate Six will render tholr 
jazz from a newly denlgnod platform 
known as a "bridge,"
Just think, only $IJ0 lo dance 
from I):00 to 12 In Spain.
Science Inspection Trips
The Junior and Senior Metallurg
ists Inspected the American Stool and 
Wire Company's works at Donor 
last week and certainly received the 
host accommodations possible. They 
wore met at the station with auto
mobiles and taken to tho works 
where guides took thorn through, ex
plaining all tho equipment and pro
cesses In detail. Tho equipment of 
this plant is all up-Lo-da(o, they havo 
ono of tho fow zinc smelters in this 
part of tho country. After going 
through the plant tho fellows were 
given a good dinner and smokes in 
the company restaurant.
On Friday afternoon the Sopho
more Mechanics went through the 
Rlecks-McJunkln Ice cream plant. 
They saw the famous Eskimo Pie 
made. It is very simple. The smAll 
bricks of ice cream are dipped in 
warm chocolate and then hung up 
to dry. The man who Invented the 
process Is already rich. The com
pany treated the fellows to some 
pies and smokes.
The Junior Electricals turned coal 
miners one day last when they went 
through the Coverdale Mine of the 
Pittsburgh Coal Company. The mine 
is three hundred feet below the sur
face of the earth. Guides and lights 
were provided to take ttie class 
through the mine. An elevator shaft 
is provided to take the men down 
and up. When the Junior Electricals 
went down they thought that the 
bucket, was dropping oul from under 
their feet.
The Sophomore Electricals visited 
the Westingliouso plant, They wont' 
through the entire plant In a few 
hours.
The Senior Minors Inspected the 
plant of the Verona Metals Reduc
tion Company at Harmonsvlllo. At 
tills plant radium Is obtained from 
carnotlto oro which Is shipped frorn 
Colorado. One ton of the ore gives 
about two and one half milligrams 
of radium which Is worth about three 
hundred dollars. The minors missed 
their train at Harmonsyllle sc had 
to ride back on street cars.
The Sophomore Mechanicals wont 
through the Ford assembly plant 
here on Monday. In this plant the 
cars are just aspembled the parts be
ing shipped from Detroit. They are 
putting out ninety "Lizzies each day 
and are only working four and onehalf hours.

---------------------------------------------------

TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1922
3Ee Carnegie artau
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute o 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh VO soeoa'l-cluss mutter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ............................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Iiazol 0808
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211
VIC. II. STROMQUIST ................................................................ Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0180 or Hiland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS.........................................................................Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0070
L. J. WHITEHEAD ...................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchonloy 0070
EDWARD A. BRAND................................................................................Nows Editor
TelephoneSchonloy 0070
H. W. BIMI'SON................................................................................. AtlllOtlO Editor
TelephoneSchonloy 0070
R. II. GUYTON ...................................................................................... Photograph or
o. A. DICICMAN ............................................................................. Exchange Editor
H. i). SONNEMANN .............................................................. Advertising Managor
Tolej)honoSchonloy 0211
E. L. REILLY .Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Boguo, M. Schumacher, H. F. Dlotor, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
P. C. MaeKeir/lo, II. H. Lofhowlts, H. H. Wlliion, K. L. McKee, W. J. Bolton, 
L Hort/,man, l1. T. Phelps, E. .1. Maust, R. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. 
Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. Byorly,
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. H. Wilson, H. J. McCormick, J. A. Bern, L. D. Allshouso.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
.T. M. Coopor, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltonhauser, .T. C. 
Major, I'1. H. AllIL.XXI A. D. Young, W. I. Millor, L. M. Landl, J. B. Laudlg 
and P. P. Schucker.
ARTS THEATER
"DON JUAN" AND "LEARNED 
LADIES PRESENTED
AT ARTS THEATER
Out of Mollero'H immenso maws of 
dramatic work no play could havo 
boon chosen In greater contrast to
ROAMINS
For a long time. Roamer has alwayH. Held the Maggie MurphB. In 
the highest esteem. And the scandals 
of Hollywood. With their subsequent 
murder. Instensiiled my admiration. 
Because I thot. That nothing of that 
sort. Could happen at Carnegie. But
tho "Learned Ladles" than tho tragi| 0,nco hist years gamo with Geneva, 
comedy, "Don Juan," which the ! ^ small group of girls. Have been 
School of Drama produced on last  courtin'. A man long familiar to us 
Wednesday as the second offering in ! At the same time that they, 
celebration of the tor-centenary of j Cherished the company of another, 
tho great Frenchman. | More pleasing and delightful. Suitor.
Don Juan has never been one of, there you have the love triangle, 
Mollero's popular works. His contemthere lies the story of the scanporarlos were unaccustomed to and . (*!l*- The blackest and most horrible 
theroforo disliked tho mixture of trag-1 tigma. That has visited our halls.
M. M. C. NEWS
dy and comedy, and the play, even in 
Franco, is rarely performed. The 
unities of time and place, so dear to 
the French heart, are practically dis
regarded and the whole feeling of tho 
play Is more romantic than classical.
In ages. A cruel and beastly MUR
DER. At the hand of the MAGGIE 
MURPHS.
Last Saturday afternoon. The two 
suitors appeared as usual. Ana hov
ered close to the mens gym. One
The Editor-in-Chlof is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up._________________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest. If signed, 
signature will bo withhold if desired. All news items must be lu tho student 
post ofllce before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan Oilice-Room 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:80 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
OIIlco hoursTuesday,
NOT THE INDIVIDUAL, THE SYSTEM
Tub I; before exumi nation^ <Vr .just a'j!toryi;>''ou will find,; jri almost 
every collpgc paper in the country, an editorial on ribbing. It is i 
time worn subject and college editors write' such. editorials rather 
from a sense oJ: duty than from the change expected. The many 
tim$s that the Tartan has spoken on this subject and other college 
papers have expressed their views and exhorted the,students not to 
crib, it would seem tliat they would do some good. But cribbing 
goes on in this school and in many others. No one has found a way 
to eliminate it.
Every one will agree that cribbing is bad. It shows individual 
weakness and beyond that it impairs the prestige ol: Carnegie Tech 
graduates. In the outside world, any ol: our graduates may be the 
standard by which people judge Carnegie Tech. If he is a man who 
has cribbed his way. through school, he hot only lowers himself, but 
every, Carnegie Tech graduate. If cribbing affected only the man 
who cribbed it Would not be of such importance, but when it affects 
the entire school, those who have gone before us and those who come 
after us, then it becomes a vitally important issue. Agreed that crib
bing produces no good, then why do wo still have cribbing going on, 
year ai'tor year?
Cribbing is confined almost entirely to the so-called minor 
courses. Very seldom will you find cribbing in the major subjects. 
II! a man cribs in his major course, the code ol! ethics of the class 
:is such that he becomes ostracized to such a degree that you will 
find very little cribbing, il! any at all, among men in their major 
courses.
In tho minor subjects, where the men think their courses unin-, 
teresting and unimportant, the ethics of the class are such that prib 
il! you cun gel. away with it, is the remark passed around the class. 
In a eftse of this kind, tho individual is not at fault; tho system, the 
conditions are wrong. When the conditions re changed, the class 
brought to the opinion that, the subject is important and necessary, 
then o.ribbing will be reduced to a niinimu
"THE LEARNED LADIES"
With characteristic intelligence and 
audacity the Department of Drama is 
celebrating Molieros three hundredth 
birthday by producing two plays by 
tile1 greatest French dramatist, one,
tered. To suitor number one And 
live Maggies strutted proudly out. To 
the waiting ear of number two.
We are sorry that number one. 
Had to die such a cruel death. But 
were glad you finally accepted num
ber two. And we'll all join in. On 
the glad rejoicin. That OL' MAN 
JINXHAS BEEN MURDERED!!!!
Tho present performance had the | wcnt ,n under the guise. Of a hasadvantage of a new and delightfully hall team. From Theil. The
supple translation by Mr. Stevens, other stayed out and waited. BashMore than one good Moliere play has i ani* confident. That this time
boon ruined by the translator, but tho ! lied be accepted. Meanwhile foiirauthor of Ibis version ol "Don Juan,".teen Kbastly marks. Were adminiswhlle making some omissions and 
taking some justifiable liberties with 
the text, has both preserved for us 
the spirit of the original and given us 
at the same time a good actable play 
In easy and dignified English.
The play is uneven. It has not the 
fine, hard brilliance of "The Learned 
Ladles." Some of the comedy such as 
the scene between Don Juan and the 
peasant girls, is pretty mechanical, 
but one might look long through the 
works of Moliere to find more grip
ping scenes than those of tho Dons 
interviews with the statue or the ter
rifying final scene with its amaaing 
comic anti-climax.
'I The performance on Wednesday 
night was a little lacking in brisk
ness, and some of the players seemed 
nervous, but both these defects will 
probably be removed in subsequent 
performances. Mr. Willard, as Don 
Juan, though physically unsuited for 
the role, gave an intelligent reading 
of the part. One imagines, however, 
the Don as a more dashing gentle
man. Tlie Dona Elvira of Miss Grey 
was a little monotonous and she 
showed a tendency to intone her 
speeches. The Sganarelle of Mr. Herz 
was an excellent piece of comedy, 
legitimate comedy too, without clown
ing or playing for the easy laugh. It 
is quite the best thing he has done.
The minor parts Avere adequately 
takon.
Mr. Wyckoffs Bettings were im
pressive and the mechanical part of 
the production was very smooth; the 
Arts Theater has never seen d swifter 
and more effective descent into Hell 
than that of Don Juan.
There was a terrible flurry. And 
excitement. 'Round the gym. Just 
before the game started. For there 
was a revolt. Among the members 
of the Tartan squad. Both teams 
were ready. To come on the floor.. 
When Izzy Winner discovered. That 
Theil had provided their team with 
lemonts. And Carnegie had lemons, 
too. But that would never do. For 
them both to have tiie same. So 
someone rushed down the lane. And 
came back with a bag of ORANGES! 
But in the end I guess. That helped 
you win the game. For you had to 
keep step with the old adage. The 
sweetest fruit. For the sweetest 
tooth.
The Lourned Ladies." th fruit of
li Ilio o4do ol ctlios oi a yroup oC me are juch timi, il, will noi, | Mh Hpest nuriod. To ace thla 250-
yeivrs old play, al. this reniovc 'of timo 
and lroumstanco, provos un unexpoctedly dolightful oxporienco. The 
plny fuma out to ho strikingly mod
em; ibis satire on psoudo-loarning
to I orate cribbing, thero will be no cribbing, no matter what any 
single individual may happen to think,
(Imngo the opinion ol' the mass and you enn change almost any
thing else. Every man know the (longer of cribbing, to himself 
and to his school. Yet, cribbing goes on and il; is not the fault ol' the
iiK.ltvicinal, but the I'ault ol! the system,
CHOOSING YOUR PROFESSION
The time approaches when the I'lobes iii the College of Heieneo 
and Engineering will In' on,lied upon to expi'oss I heir desires as to 
what particular work they desire to follow,. Soon the question of 
what course they intend to follow will be put to them and their 
answer should bo given after some deliberation and thought. The 
question is o,f a serious nature; the answer of still greater import
ance, lor upon Unit answer will depend the future success of each 
individual in the Held of engineering,
Dean George A. Damon, in an engineering article, criticizes the 
student on the basis that the trouble with a great many .young men 
;is tliall they dont Mind themselves early xMiough in lilio.*'
You under classman at Carnegie Tech-have you found your
self yet? .If not you had better get busy. Your college education 
is not to be scolicd at and your decision as to the proper course to 
pursue should be the result ol! very .careful, thought on. your part, 
1'crimps some one will tell you that there is a biggor iielcl for one 
branch of engineering than another. Si ill another may say that one 
course may eventually bring you a bigger salary than that of another 
line of engineering. A classmate may say that the faculty in one 
particular course1 is more human and perhaps of a higher standard 
than that of some other department.
Are you going lo let such matters decide for you? Are you 
going to make or break your success by letting such trifles decide 
for you? Use your common sense in reaching a decision. You have 
your own life to liveand it is of your own makingso make it 
right.
Calendar of Student Events
WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 15
General Assembly.........................................11 30, Carnegie Music Hall
DedicationFrancis Camp Perry Room....5:00, C. I. T. Library Bldg. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17
BancoFiesta en Granada (Arts Ball)...................9:00, Arts Foyer
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Buffalo................................. 8:15 Tech Gym
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Geneva  .................. .................At Geneva
Basket BallGirls Ars. Geneva Girls.........................................At Geneva
Post Ball Dance....................................................................8:30, Arts Foyer
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19
Coneort............-............................................................ 8 :15, Arts Theater
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Basket Ba,11Carnegie vs. Geneva...................................8:15, Tech Gym
.Dance-Gambol ol! the Guilds............................College of Industries
To I Schools 9:00, Arts Foyer
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, KEimUARY 121, 2*2, 23
I)rama...Don Juan................................................8:15, Arls Theater
WEDNESDAY, FEBRiUARV 22
Bailee-Arts Scholarship Dance..................................8:30, Rittenhouse
Basket BallCarnegie vs. West Virginia................. There
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24
Drama'Learned Ladies.........................4:00 and 8:15, Arts Theater
Basket BallCarnegie vs. West Virginia.......................8:15, Tech Gvm
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25
DramaLearned Ladies......................................8:15* Arts Theater
SmokerScience Stag...............................................8:15. Langley Lab.
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 2G 
Concert .............................................................................. Arts Theater
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2S
DramaAn Ideal Husband (Oscar Wilde).......8:15. Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 3 .
Dance3 School Senior Ball............................... 9-00 Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, MARCH 5 '
Banquet3 School Junior Banquet.
DanceMusical Club Dance..
and its exposure at the hands of com
mon sense is as cogent today as il; 
was In the sixteen hundreds. To bo 
sure, tho Trissotin of today would 
probably declaim free verse, and the 
female intelligentsia would feature 
bobbed hair and free manners In
stead of a lofty air and oxqulslto dic
tion, but tho fundamental opposition 
of sense and nonsense Is eternal. No 
"classical", obmody In English luis 
poured such dolootublo liquor Into so 
old a bottle. Ono joins In the French 
onthusiifsm for a dramatist whoso so
cial ridicule Is still essential, More
over, one In surprised by tho play
ability of this foroign mastorploco. 
I'hls offect is iii part due perhaps to 
the Ideas and methods of Mr. Donald 
Robertson, the visiting producer. De
spite a suspicion that Ills method 
smacks of extravnganco and that" the 
Freiich style of old and of today was 
more urbane and less robust, the end 
may Jesuitically justify the means,
nd the general hilarity make up for 
the grander manner of the Comedie 
Franaise, la Maison de Moliere.
As Chrysale, the hen-peckt but re
bellious husband, Lawrence Paquiii is 
admirable. With an appreciation of 
the struggling, elements in the role, 
he remains a human and credible fig
ure. Sara Flo3rd gives a riotous per
formance of Belise, the self-deceived 
old maid, ready for Freud, Anna K. 
Dice is the matronly dominating Philaminte, and* Eunice Osborne and Ruth 
Kaufman sustain a telling contrast as 
the sisters, though the mode of each 
becomes slightly monotonous, the one 
in her repression and the other in her 
ingenuousness! Neal Caldwell treats 
with skill the suave inane pomposity 
of Trissotin, Clitandre, the lover of 
Henriette and common sense, is ur
banely if not very forcefully acted by 
William Beyer, and C. B. Ried is the 
resourceful raisonuer-intriguer, Ariste. Evelyn Cohen presents a down
right peasant study in Martine, whose 
simple ethics excus, 1 suppose, her 
bad grammar. Thoodoro Viehman 
acts not only as assistant, director, 
but also as the professorial Vadius. 
Tho soonory is fitting, but tho cos
tumes, though they he correct,, seem 
to havo been worn steadily since tho 
premiere in 1672.
Our experience with Moll ore only 
intensifies one's pride in what tho 
Department of Drama, is doing, and 
one's shame that our outrageously 
spendthrift country does not endow 
and establish a National Theater 
where all tho classics, English and 
foreign, might reach tho foot-lights.
CITMAS CLUB MEETS
THURSDAY EVENING AT 7:30
After a week. Of inspection trips. 
Roamer is lookin for the sanitarium. 
They're a wonderful opportunity. To 
ga/,e at your future. But gosh hang 
those reports. Now heres the thing 
thats troublinf me most. For 1 like 
to got in on it too. Whose the guy 
who assigned. The trip. For our 
honorable ol Prexy. And most of all 
were wondering. If his report is due. 
At 5. The day he arrives.
ROAMER.
A new semester has started. Aro 
you going to get down to'business, or 
are you going to dilly-dally around* 
and waste another half year?
Your studies are the most import
ant thing at school. Prepare them.
Happy-go-lucky is all right as long 
as your're lucky.
The Biblo Hays: "Take no thought 
of tomorrow, but in those days they 
didnt havo mechanics and physics.
Try to learn something, not make 
marks You wont, bo paid for the 
marks you got at school.
Its O. K. to say "I should worry 
after youve done your Math.
Maybe you can fool the profs, but 
you're trying to become an Enginaer, 
not a Magician.
You can got through school on 
your lino of gab, but Its darn hard 
living on hot air and good jokes.
They say "What you dont know 
wont, hurt you,"' but it will prevent 
you from dying rich. . And what If 
you dont know anything?
Start tho now sehioster right.
Dont put off until tomorrow what 
you can do today.
Especially Math.
_____F. C. S.
LIFE INSURANCE RESEARCH
BUREAU HOLDS MEETING.
Y. W. C. A. NOTES
Miss Katherine Richards, Student 
Secretary of the East Central Field, 
will visit Pittsburgh this week. Miss 
Richards returned from China recent
ly and we expect she will have many 
interesting stories of other lands. She 
v/ill be our guest on Wednesday af
ternoon at our party and also will be 
our guest on Thursday. Any private 
conferences desired by any students, 
concerning questions vital to them 
may be arranged for through Miss 
Bowman or any cabinet member. Miss 
Richards will be also the guest of the 
University of Pittsburgh and of 
Pennsylvania College for Women dur
ing her visit here.
This afternoon, Wednesday, the fif
teenth, the Recreation Hall will be 
tho place, four-thirty will be the time, 
and you will be the participants in 
a real get-together party of Y. W. C. 
A. members. The social committee 
has planned a lot of fun and if you 
had planned to go home or over to 
the dorm, just remember the party 
and flay. Its going to be a different 
party from any weve ever had be
fore, and all the other girls are going. 
Ask them !
Student Volunteers! Are there 
any? If you# arent one, dont let that 
keep you away from the conference 
at W. & J. this next week-end, the 
17th, 18th and 19th. A big group of 
Carnegie folks are going down. All 
the neighboring schools will be repre
sented and if you want to go, get in 
touch with Miss Bowman soon, or 
with Conrad Hoover, of Science, pres
ident of the Teknon Club. Represen
tatives are going from the Y. W. C. 
A. and the Teknon Club. Those repre
senting the Y. W. C. A. are Mary 
Crawford, Eleanor Wilt, Edna How
ard and Anna Ivirker. Martha Colegrove, the only volunteer in Margaret 
Morrison, will also represent the Y. 
W. C. A.
New Co-Ed: Do they wear thospj "What is sadder than a man who--
loses his last friend?horribly short track pants right out 
in the open?
Old Timer: No, they wear them
out in the 3eat.Chaparral.
A man who works for his board, 
and loses his appetite.Stanford 
Chaparral.
This 1L for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and de.liver It. Our work is the 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes street.
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hill's Exclusive Dining i 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. 
Squirrel Hill.
Hazel 9373.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
DISCUSSION CLASS RESUMES
Mrs. Scales discussion class, which 
mets Friday noons, reopens this 
week. These discussions have al
ways been most interesting,' and the 
future ones give promise of being es
pecially profitable. The complete out
line suggested:
Februury 10Looking Toward the 
Job.
February 37Looking Toward our 
Standard of Living.
March 3Looking Toward Marri
age.
March 10Looking Toward our 
Leisure Hours.
March 17Looking Toward Citizen
ship.
March 24Looking into the Springs 
of our Life.
ART WINS
Or would you call it that? At any 
rate, the Household Economics Club 
has decided on a Victrola for "the 
practice house, rather than a dish
washer!
Miss Pope, head of the Department, 
and Miss Layton, president of the 
club, have been inspecting various 
machines, and before many days the 
P. H. will be ringing with music.
Sinco your son returned from 
Tech, I suppose he gets up bright 
and early everry morning?
1-Ie doesnt do either.
I JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
j" CRAIG AND FORBES STREET X
X Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year, y
.j. BELL PHONE X
V Classes each evening. Private lessons dally. ?*.
$ A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
**X~X~X"X"X~X~XX"X"XX~X~X~X~X~XK"X~X"X~X~X~X~X"X~X**
I Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEKDAYS .
Chess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study l-oom.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings. 
Just visit.
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes..............................10:00 A. M.
Quiet.................................... Sunday afternoon
Priends, fellowship, refreshmentsand a helpful
young peoples meeting............5:30-7:30' P. M.
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS
THE BEST DANCE FLOOR 
ij in Pittsburgh is that of the
DUQUESNE GARDEN 
BALL ROOM
Schedule your next party on the Garden floor. For private reser
vations see Paul Qualtrough, manager, or M. F. Lane at Duquesne 
Garden, or call Schenley 3106.
.......8:30, Union ent.
The Citmas Club will hold a busi
ness meeting tomorrow evening at 
7:30 in tho Y. M. C. A. Club room. 
Several important, things will oe 
brought up for consideration. All 
members are resuestetT to be pres(Continued From Pago Otie.-j 
cios for Union Central Life Insurance 
Company. I-I. A. Richmond repre
sented the Equitable Life Insurance 
Company of Now York.
Mr. John M. Holcomb, at present of 
the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance 
Company was appointed business 
manager of the Insurance Research 
Bureau, and secretary to the commit
tee. This committeo will pass on the 
budget and expenditures of the bu
reau und will handle research work. 
Twenty-six companies have already 
signed membership cards, while a to
tal of thirty companies are expected 
to join. Dr. C. S. Yoakum was se
lected as director of the bureau, 
which will be connected with the 
Bureau of Personnel Research. Dr. 
C. J. Hanson was selected as assist
ant director.
One of the first'steps to be taken 
will be a personal visit to the various 
companies 'by the staff. This bu
reau is quite new, but great results 
are expected from it.
ALLEGHENY FIVE
LOSES TO LAST
TARTAN SQUAD 
(Continued From Page One.)
The foul shooting by both teams 
was very poor, Anderson caging only 
eight out of nineteen shots while Kofford for Allegheny succeeded in scor
ing toil out of the same number of at
tempts. This, however, can be attri
buted to the fact that both teams had 
dtfllculty in gauging tholr shots 
against the now glass backboards.
Anderson led in tho scoring for 
Cnrnogio making four Hold goals 
while tho work of Parent of Allegheny 
was especially commendable as ho 
was In nearly every play and by his 
fast work made possible the scoring 
of most of Alleghenys points.
Tho lineup:
-20. Carnegie Tech28.Allegheny 
Parent .. 
Miller ... 
Wise .... 
Parker .. 
Kofford . 
Field
.............F
..............F..........
.............C...........
. ............G.............
.............G..........
goals  Parent 
Wise 2, Ivofford 2, Parker, Gibson 3, 
Anderson -i, Newman 2. Allen. Fouls 
Anderson S out of 19. Kofford 10 out 
of 19. RefereeWeitzel. Umpiri 
Bolster.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANTHREE
ALLEGHENY HIGH Plaid Co-Eds Win From 
BEATEN BY PLEBES Thiel Girls 14-12
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
W. Va.............11Princeton .... 37
Bethany -----37Franklin Mor.. 12
Geneva ........ 37 Haverford -----25
Bethany -----20Penn State_____40
W. Va............22N. Y. Univer.. 30
Geneva ..........32Allegheny .... 33
W. Va. Wes. 29Morris 'Harvey. 19 
W. Va. Wes. 44Fairmont ....... 23
BY H. F. SIMPSON
Meet Buffalo at Home and 
Geneva Away. Plebe and 
Girl Teams Have Games
Helen Reed and Eleanor 
Thomas Star For 
Carnegie Team
Plebes Show Great Improve
ment, 36 to 26At 
Apollo Next
FOR A BETTER UNDERSTANDING
The policy oC behind closed doors" docs not work. It only causes in
trigue. and a general feeling oC dissatisfaction among a peoples.
This is so in college activities.
Therefore, this column recognizes that only upon the presentation of 
Athletic Council happenings and reports can a real and true understanding 
be acquired. To present, therefore only the Students ideas is to cause fric
tion. Two factions can only co-operate when each faction knows fully what 
the other thinks. Consequently, it will be the policy of this sheot to present 
ideas of both factions, and thereby hope to draw them together.
In Carnegie Tech athletics, the two factions are on the ono hand, the 
Graduate Manager and his assistants, while on the other hand are the whole 
mass of students.
In order to give the students and alumni a better understanding of the 
financial situation of athletics in general here at Carnegie, Mr. llaaren has 
prepared a statement for publication. This statement is printed elsewhere 
in this issue of the Carnegie Tartan, and should bo carefully road in its 
entirety by every single student and alumnus of the school.
The article is written plainly and to the point, in such a manner as to 
give no cause for misunderstanding. The facts are in black and white, and 
any safie-minded reader can get them.
And now. knowing the situation as it is; the motives backing the actions 
of the athletic council; the future troubles which confront the athletics of 
the school; it does seem as if the student body can back-water a bit.
On Friday night, February 17, the 
Plaid cage men will meet the fast 
Buffalo quintet on the Carnogie Tech 
gym court. The men from Buffalo 
are coming liore with a big, fast 
team, having an onviable record, and 
with the Tartans having.pulled tliomselves out of their slump" by their 
brilliant victory over Alleghony last 
Saturday night, the game has all that 
goes to make a good baslcot ball 
game.
Saturday night the Carnegio Tech 
passers invade Geneva for the annual 
basket ball game there. Geneva has 
been playing a good brand of basket 
ball in their own region and the prob
able result of this clash cannot be 
conjectured. However, the winner of 
this game, 1ms a change to stage a 
comeback next Tuesday night. This 
game also will bo played In the Car
negie Too]i gym.
The basket ball season of 1921-22 
is rapidly drawing to a close and the 
opportunity to see this game is not 
to l>o overlooked, as Geneva lost to 
.Allegheny by but ono point and it 
took Allegheny an extra period to
turn the trick. The lineup for the
Carnogie Tech-Genovn games will 
probably bo:
Carnegie Tech. Geneva.
Dosoy ..................F....................... Boren
Gibson .................F............ Galbraith
Newman ......C......................... Harr
Allen ...................G.................. Loetllor
Boll ......................G................... Thomas
The Carnegie Tech Girls baskot 
bull team will also be In action this 
weok. Saturday they travel to Goneva to play the preliminary game of 
the Carnogie Tech-Genovn gamo. The 
girls are dotormlnod to lcoop their 
slate clean by trouncing llio Gonovu 
girls.
The Freshmen t,ravel to Apollo Fri
day night to moot, tlio Apollo High 
School.' They havo not lost, a gamp 
this year and will light hard to lcoop 
their string of vlotorlo intact.
MenGet Here Early
We are just cleaning up the 
remaining pairs of Stetson 
Winter Oxfords.
You'll find several extremely 
smart and popular lasts. Extra
ordinary values at our clear
ance price.
One like illustration in Tan or 
Black. Perforations on Vamp 
and Toe. Fibre waterproof 
middle strip in soles.
Clearance CQ A C
Price...........................
We Fitted Feet for Fifty Years
ENOS KIRKPATRICK WILL
COACH CARNEGIE BASEBALLSOMETHING LIKE TWO YEARS AGO
Three victories in one day!- And the girls helped too! Sounds like 
an echo of two years ago when suddenly "FIVE VICTORIES FOR TECH 
was thrown upon the Carnegie Tartan front sheet. I-Iere's how they look:
Carnegie Tech Varsity..........................28 Allegheny College ...............................2t!
Carnegie Tech Freshmen....................36 Allegheny High ....................................2G
Carnegie Girls Varsity........................14 Thiel Girls' Varsity ............................12
Thats a good start on the SIXTEEN SUCCESSIVE VICTORIES headline!
It was a good come-back against Allegheny'that the mens varsity made. 
It took good basket ball to do it. Allegheny was primed to make it two 
out of two, and Carnegie was determined that such would not happen. The 
two combined made a great game.
Lest you fail to appreciate it, will let you know that Allegheny High is 
leading the local league of High Schools. Sounds good for the Freshman 
team and Bob Waddell. Incidentally Bob* lias a large list or stars iij 
Midge Matter, Bright Eyes Oles, Murray, Koppes and Brooks. And his 
list of second string men are right there too. Young, Burns, Glass, Park 
and Gardner are just bout almost as good as the men who start off.
Their complete record so far is:
Freshmen.........................24Wflstinghouso Tech .................21
Freshmen......................45Sacred Heart High...................20
Freshmen.........................35Duquesne High .........................20
Freshmen.........................32Poabody High ...........................13
Freshmen.........................36Allegheny High .........................2(5
A good record, and such as to demand tbo fullest support that the stu
dent body can give. Their games aro always full of pop and light, plus that 
good old team work.
The Girls Varsity debut was line. Crodlt is surely duo to Miss Bowman 
for developing such a good team. It appears well startedon a successful 
season. Their victory over the Thiol Girls was cleancut and fully dosorved, 
for they, without a doubt, played the bettor brand of baskot ball.
But a warning in time saves many things. Girls, like boys, aro prone 
to over-conildence, and then they got it, tbo samo result is lllcoly to take 
place. So, take the advice of Wally Stoffon, that: Every toam is better
than you are until you have proven tlio converse; no.game Is won off the 
field; and go into every game convincod that youre up against your hnrdost 
proposition.
Enos Kirkpatrick, tho> newly ap
pointed baseball coach, has lmd quite 
a bit of experience in the professional 
game as well as In the amateur. This 
will aid him Immensely in teaching 
his proteges the "how and where
fore of successful baseball playing.
Kirk began his baseball careor 
when In i South High; school of this 
.clt.V, wherqiilie played,, until1 graduatiion. After *tb,bj, his baseball days 
were transferred to the independent 
ranks.around the Pittsburgh district, 
while working for the Carnogie Steel 
Company.
His first venture into the profes
sional ranks was in 1910, when he 
played with the Richmond, Virginia, 
team of tbo Virginia League. In 1911 
ho was with Atlanta, Georgia, of the 
Southorn League, after which lie 
went to Dayton, Ohio, of tlio Central 
League for tlio year 1912. 1913 found 
him with the Newark, N. J., club of 
tlio International League, from which 
ho rose to. the major league, playing 
with tbo Brooklyn Trolly Dodgors 
of the National League, where ho 
played through the throe campaigns 
of 1914-15-1(5.
In 1917, Kirk dropped out Of pro
fessional ball, and aacoptod. tbo man
agership of tlio Aluminum foam, which 
ho hold until 1919, when lib oaino to 
Carnegio Tooli to manage tbo cafe
teria. In tlio yours that Kirkpatrick 
managed the Aluminum toam, the 
non-independent. championship of 
Western Pennsylvania and EuHtoru 
Ohio was won by tlio.ni.
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
EAST LIBERTY
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRABY
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
MUSIC HATH CHARMS
. Our frieftid, Dr. "Bert" Munlmll, Director of the Dopartnumt of Physical 
Tortures via Sloans Liniment and Iodine, Is bewailing tlio fact that his now 
fonygraf bus fullod to arouse tlio reporting Instinctpage the psychology 
departmentIn the boss of tlio Plaid Screen. For the limited brain-power of 
the aforesaid boss, and also bis limited powers of porsplcuoslty, apologies 
are hereby offered to tlio aforesaid Dr. Munhall, and -herewith all past dalnagos, it is hoped, aro repaired.
This Fonygraf is a really wonderful machineIt does the duties re
quired wallIn fact so well that tbo FOUR rocprds are practically worn out. 
Which can bo taken to mean that donations of NEW records aro In order. 
And besides (this, a hint to tbo customers of Dr. Munlmll) music hath 
charms, tls suld, and again wo patrons of Ills waiting room aro tlrod of hoaring the same four records played over and over again. In other words, 
give us more records, quoth tlio aforesaid doctor in plalntlvo tones.
raus
FENCES
I
fOK the ntudfrnt or prof., 
the impeti VENUS <>iu~ 
rival all (or ncrfoot pencil 
work. _ 17 liJucIc doyrcett unu 
J1 copying.
Athorlcon Lend 
Pencil Co. jfW.
a/o I'll I liA vu. iC'.Y ;<.// 
NcwYoilc  /
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
PhoneCourt 3556 1
H 1j Hoirns Wagner | ( Sporting Goods:Company j
438 WOOD STREETg [3Sporting G-oods of Every Description. |
@ ftLiberal Discounts to Students.g 3
K TU, hretn I till nr ufi'ji/ //Hill In ilio xutrhl
IHIS/a0JEII2l!fi.l,/i,!lr,li'lir,Ir,/i'lii*l/rlli-llrllrllr,le'l,:lelli 'if 'iH, rlcVli 'Mr'Ii'Wli 'li'V -li 'li 'Ir'li 'li li 'liilli-!lnliii!/ii!/o!J 
"THE COLLEGE SHOP"
DAVIES & HUGHES
HATTERS AND MEN8 FURNISHER8 
3615 FORBES STREET, OAKLAND NEXT STRAND THEATER
Suocoosoro to
Theta XI 1C, Theta Tau 14.
PHYSICISTS MEET AT TORONTO
'\X7rHEN ^ou out into medical world, youll find y V young doctors are judged by something more than 
diagnostic oil I tv and knowledge of their subject. The at
mosphere of j.uccess plays its partthe evidence that you 
have arrived. And amon^ the little details that indicate 
success, theres the habit cf preferring
'The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
THE KREMLIN, MOSCOW
OC. 1/ of the fu m nut bui!dingt of the world 
are equipped with Olii Elevatori
T,m i) Cale Is til cir;i-!el of Moscow, The walls 
of the tru'iubr enclosure were liullc in tlir year that 
C'olumliu: uisciivrrcii America, Much of the history of 
Riusi .1 dar; Mr nf Intrigue, mwery and bloodshed 
was enacted in the Kremlin buildings.
The prr'cnc f r>-.tr Ialace dales hack only to Napoleon's 
<!i>, l'or li 8 e.i|.,n;n burned riir old palace. There arc two 
Oiis Automati: Push Hutton Elevators in the Great lalacc. 
TJicre is another Otis I'.levalorin the Nicholas Palace, 
This is significant of the world-wide ecope of Otis activiI'ra From the first crude hydraulic elevators to the mod
ern mira,le of automatic vertical transportation, Otis has 
led the Way and even now is continually developing new 
and better methods and machinery.
O T I S E LEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Citico of the World
Remember that Melachrino is a masterblend 
of the finest Turkish Tobaccos as originated 
byMiltiadesMelachrino. Egyptian cl"' reties 
are simply those that originated in Epvpr. 
But the tobacco is whatyou want to know 
aboutand if its Melachrino its right.
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES 8TREET 
RADIO SUPPLIES 
Vernier Air Condenser, Sada 
Switches, B" Batteries, ACE 
Sockets, V. T., Etc.
f uUlU t
rses hitched 
Continued on
PLAID ATHLETICS

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1922
ALUMNI--D0 NOT 
MISS ARTS EXHIBIT!
Faculty of College of Fine 
Arts Present to 
Explain Work
Alumni Aro Invltod to Vilcw Work of 
Inatructoro. 
invitation lmvo boon Issued for a 
private view of an Art exhibition, to 
bo presented by tlio faculty of the 
College of Fine Art In tlio galleries 
of tbo 'Carnegie Institute, February 8 
to February 20, Inclusive. The pur
pose of tbe exhibition In to give to 
the ultimnl und the public of Pitts
burgh an opportunity to Bee samples 
of the work of tbo faculty of the vari
ous departments of tbo College of 
Finn Art. During tbo exhibition fac
ulty members will bo present to give 
information concerning the pictures 
and other works of art and throo or 
four (lines a week Bpoclal lectures 
will be glvon. On Saturday, February 
11, Mr. Hornbostel will lecture 6n de
signing bridges. This will bo one of 
tbo greatoBt art exhibitions that ban 
over been presented to tbo public arid 
11 will certainly bo woll worth the 
time to come to L.. It. Every alum* 
nus and aluimna should keep the 
date from February 8 to February 
20 In mind, and make every effort 
possible to L.. the exhibit L.XXX. time 
during tbo dates mentioned. The 
alumni office will be glad to furnish 
any Information in regard to tbe exhi
bition.
FOUND  The following articles 
have been found and turned in at the 
Office of the Dean of Mon where they 
may be Identified and claimed: One
rosary, ono brooch, ono draftsman's 
compass, ono lady's umbrella.
FACULTY N0TE8 AND NEW8
Dr. JBttlcer 1L In receipt of a letter 
dated January 25 from President 
Hamerschlag, who Is at present tour
ing In Europe. In part the letter 
reads:
"J3y nightfall wo expect to touch 
at Plymouth after a typical winter. 
voyagegale, heavy sea, with one 
bright sunshine hour now and then. 
Most of the passengers have boon 1J1, 
but fortunately we have not suffered. 
During the gale and the long night 
altempting tlio rescue of a inking 
ship, most of uh bud a taste of the 
real seaman's Ufo. It was not at
tractive, and to most of us anything 
but pleasant.
"Wo aro still vague a to our itin
erary, somewhat after the manner of 
hoboes. Our. thoughts carry us 
through Franco to Spain, thence to 
Morocco by easy 'stages with one 
pot on tlio horizon, the Holy City 
of Marrakech, In tbo southern 
oasis below Kabbat and Cassa 
Blanca. Wo aro told It ha been rare
ly visited and IS untouched by the in
fidel European. This should give us 
a glimpse of,Moorish and Arabic life 
In an urban center."
Dr. Baker lias received cables from 
Biarritz,, France, and Madrid, Spain. 
Dr. Hamerschlag reports himsolf as 
feeling very much better.
New Members of Board of Trustees.
Mayor . William A. Magee replaces 
ox-MayorBabcoclc, and Councilmen P. 
J. McArdle and James F. Malone exCouncllmen Daily and Henderson.
slon NVO devoted to the discussion of 
general educational questions.
Mr. R. M. Neal has been appointed 
to succeed Mr. L. M. Teffeau as 
oral Board Co-ordinator at the Car
negie institute of Technology.
Dr. L. L. Tliurstone, head of the 
Psychology Department, lectured on 
"The Subconscious" before the Wom
an' Alliance of the First Unitarian 
church February 1st.
Mrs. Scales addressed the Dormont 
New Century Club February 3rd on 
"Education in the Home."
Mr, William E. Rudge, a member 
of the Art 'Commission of New York 
City and chairman of the Internation
al Typothotao Committee on Better 
Printing, visited the Institute Janu
ary 27th.
Dr. McLeod, head of the Depart
ment of English, will make an ad
dress on "Contemporary Literature 
at tbo monthly literature luncheon of 
the Outlook Alliance on February 1G, 
at tbo Hotel Chatham.
New York Clan.
Only one week until the big annual 
party in New York in tbe green room 
of the McAlpin Hotel. A letter just 
received from the Clan has outlined 
some of tbo tiling that are going to 
happen there Saturday night and 
every alumnus and alumna in the vi
cinity of New York should make every 
effort possible to be there. Do not 
forget the date, February 25. Once 
you attend the annual New York 
meeting you will never stop talking 
about It.
Association of College Presidents of 
Pennsylvania.
Atthe annual meeting of the As
sociation of College Presidents of 
Pennsylvania, which was held Janu
ary 27 at tbo Penn Harris, Harrisburg, 
a committee was appointed to recom
mend changes in the constitution of 
the Association of Colleges and Pre* 
paratory Schools of the Middle States 
and Maryland. The rest of the ses-,
Mr. Chester Wallace of tbo Drama 
Department talked on new plays of 
the year before the Epoch Club on 
February 2nd.
Mr. Randolph I-Iuus spoke on Rus
sia at the January 27th meeting of 
the Rosemary Club.
The February issue of "Chemical 
and Metallurgical Engineering con
tains an article on "Some New Pe
troleum Products by Professor J. 
Ii. James. The paper had been pre
sented In December at the Baltimore 
meeting of the American Institute of 
Chemical Engineers.
Prof. W. Trinlcs lectured on the 
theory of rolling mill at a meeting 
of the American Society of Mechani
cal Engineers on February 1st.
It tookyEARS^VEARS to develop
CAMELQUALITY
We worked on Camels for years before we 
put them on the market. Years of testing 
blendingexperimenting with the worlds 
choicest tobaccos.
And now, EVERY DAY, all our skill, manu
facturing experience and lifelong knowledge 
of fine tobaccos are concentrated on making 
Camel the best cigarette that can be produced.
Theres nothing else like Camel QUALITY. 
And theres nothing else like Camels wonder
ful smoothness, fine tobacco flavor and freedom 
from cigaretty aftertaste.
Thats why Camel popularity is growing 
faster than ever.
A better cigarette cannot be made.
We put the UTMOST QUALITY into 
THIS ONE BRAND.
Pittsburgh Clan.
The next meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Clan will be held in the early part 
of March. This meeting will be in 
the form of a duncheon similar to the 
one held January 28. Quite a few 
notable men of the city of Pittsburgh 
will bo guests of honor. Watch the 
Carnogie Tartan for the exact date 
of the meeting.
NOTICE1
All visiting Carnegie Tech men and 
women are cordially invited to at
tend the different meetings.
Dayton Clan.
The regular monthly meeting and 
dinner of the Dayton Clan will be 
held at the Engineers Club on Fri
day evening, February 17. Mr. L. II. 
Siegler, secretary, has just written to 
the office giving a very satisfactory 
report of Carnegie Tech affair^ in the 
city of Dayton.
Norfolk Clan.
Monthly meetings are held on the 
first Saturday of each month at 605 
Bank of Commerce building. After 
tbe meeting the member adjourn to 
the Hotel Fairfax where supper is 
served.
ALL TECH MEN IN
YOUNGSTOWN DISTRICT
TAKE NOTICE
HARRISBURG CLAN
Luncheons are held every Friday at 
the Penn-Harris Hotel. All visiting 
Tecbites are cordially invited to at
tend.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
The regular monthly meeting will 
be held the third Monday of each 
month at 7:30 p. m. at the Y. M. C. A.
GRADUATE MANAGER
REVIEWS STATUS OF
C. I. T. ATHLETICS
(Continued From Page One.) 
or two of the spring sports would 
have to bo entirely eliminated, 'both 
suggestions being very distasteful to 
the Council as well as the alumni, or 
in tbo absence of such action addi
tional funds would have to be obtain
ed from some outside source.
The most important and definite 
problem of tlio Council then resolved 
itself into the matter of ascertaining 
bow the rather large deficit existing 
In the temporary budget would be ab
sorbed. It was at this time that the 
Council came to the decision to put 
on the Athletic Extension Fund drive 
which eventually took place in Feb
ruary, 1921, and which fund was to 
provide the money to absorb the def
icit which the budget of the graduate 
manngor showed would exist unless 
some outside financial help was re
ceived. The drive was expocted to 
produco $<10,000 net, which, according 
to the figures of the budget, would 
absorb the deficits that would result 
in at least the two following years 
and perhaps, three* or for a period 
sufficiently long to have allowed tlio 
organization to grow lo the point 
where tlio gate receipts would be suf
ficient to take care of tlio yearly def
icit and oven create a surplus.
As is quite woll known, the A. E. 
F. drive because of tlio business de
pression which was then making it
self most felt, did not roach its goal 
of $50,000. The total of plodgos re
ceived was approximately $38 000, 
tbe collections about $32,000, leaving 
about $(1,000 to be collected. The 
cost of tbo drive In round numbers 
was oloso to $7,000; or making a not 
sum of about $25,000 available for 
Athletic Association use, or suffici
ent to carry out the program of the 
Council for at least two years. In 
line with tlio program as laid out by 
the Council, trade, bnsobail and tennis 
were carried out, good coaches and 
the best of equipment being supplied, 
all of which no doubt justified itself 
in view of producing championship 
track and tennis teams, and which as 
expected, absorbed about half of the 
money accruing from the drive.
The fiscal year beginning Decem
ber 1st, 1921, found us with a capital 
of approximately 523,000 and a 
budget showing an amount of approx
imately $11,000 in disbursements in 
excess of the receipts which might 
be expected from all sources through
out the year. This meant that by Au
gust 31st, 1022, we would see our sur
plus or capital reduced to about $12,- 
000. The budget referred to did not 
take into consideration the cost of 
resurfacing the football field, a por
tion of which expense the Athletic As
sociation will no doubt have to stand, 
and the question lias been asked.
how, if we are to pay $5,000 toward 
resurfacing the football field, will we 
be able to go through another year 
of athletics with only approximately 
$7,000 with which to start the year 
in September, 1922? It is of course 
impossible to definitely answer a 
question which reaches so far in the 
future, but the best answer which 
can be given is that we are now ap
proaching tli place in the public es
timation and esteem where tlio gate 
receipts should reach tlio point of 
helping to absorb the deficit which 
has so regularly appoarod and which 
has been takon caro of by the special 
provisions above described. We are 
far. as yet, from the point whore foot
ball gate receipts will pay for all of 
the sports, as it does in many col
leges, but within several years with 
the present progress we should be
gin to approach that point. It is to 
bo hoped then, and it is confidently 
expected by the Council that the gate 
receipts, students fees and miscel
laneous receipts of the year 1922-1923, 
wMl be sufficient to take care of the 
disbursements of the same year and 
thus leave the fund with which tlio 
year started, namely $7,000 intact.
Spoaking further with reference to
Monday, February 20, is a red let
ter day on the calendar of the 
Youngstown Clan. We are going to 
have a feed at the Y. M, C. A. at 
7:00 p. m., followed by a talk by 
Prof. Wm. Pfouts of the iCollege of 
Industry.
We can't think of any former stu
dent of "Tech missing a chance to 
hear "Bill, so. come expecting to 
see all your old "Tech friends in 
this district.
If you cannot come for the feed, 
ibe there at 7:45 for the meeting.
ALUMNI ORGANIZE 
IN NORFOLK, VA.
Students, to get a reliable fountain 
I pen, Eversharp pencil, Tech recogj nition or seal pin, brief case, school 
ring, personal stationery, etc., should 
call at the Singer Penn and Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
Tidewater, Va., Clan. Plans 
Already Formed to 
Start Something
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAE
The executive committee held its 
regular monthly meeting at the home 
of Mary Cummings Keaney, 5460 
Broad street. Those present were 
Florence Bechtel, Sue Smith, Edna 
Spilth, Rachel Beatty, Bess Gaston 
and Mary Keaney. Considerable work 
of varied nature was accomplished 
after which delightful refreshments 
were served.
The constitution committee will 
meet at the home of the president, 
5218 Friendship avenue, Thursday, 
February 18, at whichtime the com
mittee hopes to finish its work.
in the rain. Had the weather been 
favorable for all of the home games, 
not only would the attendance rec
ords have been completely smashed, 
but also the finances would have re
ceived an impetus1 that would have 
made easy sailing for the balance of 
the year. However, such was not the 
case, with the result that the sport 
of football alone instead of showing 
a deficit of $6.000, as allowed for in 
the budget, ended up with a net loss 
of $10,500. We do not feel, however, 
that Pluvius will treat us as bad 
next year and with this hope and 
with the big games of next year, we 
hope to be1 able to make a better fi
nancial success than has ever been 
the case so far. It is hardly too optim
istic. to holieve that the' public which 
patronized Tech field in greater num
bers than ever before, will continue 
to respond In oven greater numbers 
next year. The attraction offered by 
the Plaid team was definitely demon
strated in both of the games away 
from homo last year, at Washington, 
Pa., and State College, Pa., where the 
attendance records for those fields 
were broken.
It no doubt is a matterof surprise 
to some of the alumni of former years 
to note tlio amounts of money Involv
ed in the Athletic Association trans
actions. The deficit incurred in the 
pursuit of football this past season 
would have been sufficient to have 
carried through an entire athletic 
year as it was done only several 
years back. In tills connection It is 
well to note that the Athletic Asso
ciation now pays for a great many 
things which in those days were car
ried by the school as a part of their 
regular expenses. The various 
coaches, as a rule, were carried on 
the faculty roll and. were paid as 
such, grandstands and maintenance 
were carried by the school and there 
were no administrative expenses to 
speak of. Now, the Athletic Associa
tion stands practically isolated and 
must be responsible for all expense 
and maintenance, in connection with 
inter-collegiate athletics, the only ex
ception being that the present office 
quarters of the graduate manager are 
granted rent free. The Field House, 
or as is better known, the gymna
sium is maintainod arid kept up by the 
Association. In the past year various 
improvements have been made, name
ly, the balcony, varsity club rooms, 
varsity rooms in the basement, etc., 
which have cost the Association  over 
$2,500. The new drainage system on 
the field without the help of which 
we would not have been able to have 
played our games, cost nearly $1,000 
New portable grandstands to seat the 
new supporters of the Plaid cost 
nearly $5 000. Under the old regime 
these expenses would very prohably 
have come out of school funds or the 
expenditures would not have been 
made, and such things as these help 
to bring the figures up to a point 
which looks very high to those who 
handled the funds, six or seven years 
ago.
The object of this article has been 
to briefly Indicate the present finan
cial condition of the Athletic Asso
ciation and its relation to the near 
future as woll as to show the policy 
of the Athletic Council in attempting 
to build up Tech athletics to the point 
where they may be more nearly selfsupporting than lias been the case 
before. We are as yet far from Easy 
Street, in 'c*t. the matter of discon
tinuing baseball or one of the other 
spring 2ports came up in a recent
In the office of W. H. Sands on Sat
urday afternoon, February 4, the fol
lowing alumni met and organized the 
Tide-Water, Virginia, Clan:
M. M. Fitzhugh, I. '10, 313 Fortyeighth street, Newport News, Va.
Morton Cusliiier, Si Associate 13- 
'15, 1011 Bank of Commerce building, 
Norfolk, Va.
T. D. Fitzgibbon, A. Associate '09- 
'14, care Calrow & Wrenn, Architects, 
Norfolk, Va.
J. W. Phillips, A. '17, 611 Raleigh 
avenue, Norfolk, Va.
W. B. Rudolph, A. Associate 09-12, 
care B. F. Mitchell, Architect, Nor
folk, Va.
E. B. Curtis, Insurance 1921, Equit
able Life Insurance Company, Bank 
of Commerce building, Norfolk, Va,
Bernard B. Speigle, A. '14, 108 East 
Main street, Norfolk, Va.
William H. Sands, S. Associate '18- 
12, Bank of Commerce building, Nor
folk, Va.
Mr. S. C. .Chandler, Industries 1921, 
14 Pinkney street, Greenville, South 
Carolina, Was in the city and attended 
this meeting. Tliose present decided 
that as the Clan would represent 
other localities than.the City of Nor
folk, it should be called the Carnegie 
Tech Clan of Tlde-Water, Virginia.
The following officers were elected: 
E. B. Curtis, President.
J. W. Phillips, Vice President, 1
M. M. Fitzhugh, Vice President. 
W. H. Sands, Sec.-Treas.
The Clan has made application for 
an art exhibit to be put on at the 
Arts Club in Norfolk some time in 
the near future. They have also 
started plans in which they hope to 
interest certain high school graduates 
in Carnegie Tech. The Clan is the 
farthest south of any that have been 
formed and great things can be ex
pected of it. What they lack in num
bers they make up in spirit and cer
tainly receive the best wishes from 
the alumni office in their undertak
ings.
may be entirely wrong, but everyone 
concerned and interested may be sure 
that every possible precaution has 
;beeu taken to provide for a continu
ous, healthy growth of Carnegie ath
letics, not only in prestige generally, 
but in a financial sense, as well.
NO STAGS ALLOWED
AT THE ARTS BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
possessing passes will be admitted. 
Tli,e tside entrance on Woodlawn 
avenue will be the only one used. 
The large musiic room on the; mez
zanine floor, Room 150, will bo used 
as a cloak room. At nine oclock a 
surprise will be sprung and the mu
sic will commence. Dancing will con
tinue until 11:30 when the play, 
The Princess Slip, will be given 
by division talent in the litCle thea
ter. This will last about one hour, 
followed by supper which will be 
served in the exhibition room. Dur
ing the repast cabaret stunts; will 
be featured on a stage specially con
structed at the south eud of the 
room. After supper dancing will re
sume until four.
A line of taxis will be waiting 
at the door.
The committee decided to invite a 
number of people who are not 
alumni but who have shown their 
deep.. interest in the Arts , School and. 
aided in its development in various 
ways. Most of these patrons are 
prominent in the Pittsburgh district. 
They are:
Mr. and Mrs. Taylor Alderdlce, Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker, Mr. Edward Duff 
Balken, Mr. and Mrs. John Beatty, 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Raymond Bossonge. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Boyd, Mr. and 
Mrs. Jcel Burdick, Mr. and Mrs.
Julian Burdiclc, Mr. and Mrs. J. 
Dawson Callery, Mr. and Mrs. Dan
iel M. Clemson, Colonel and Mrs. 
Samuel Harden Church, Mr. and 
Mrs. Carroll H. Fitzhugh, Mr. and 
Mrs. William Frew, Mr. and Mrs. J. 
D. 'Hailman. Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag, Mr. and Mrs. Charles i 
Heinroth, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Horn-1 
bostel, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Hunt, Mr. 
and Mrs. Charles T.' Ingham, Mr. and: 
Mrs. Edward B. Lee, Dr. and Mrs. I
Lawrence Litchfield, Mr. and Mrs.
Guiseppi Morretti, Mrs. Remson
Messier, Mr. Frank F. Nicola, Mr. 
and Mrs. A. K. Oliver, Mr. and Mrs. 
I'John L. Porter, Dr. and Mrs. S. 
M. Rinehart, Mr. Luoien Scaife, Mrs. 
Laura W. L. Scales, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. 'Shiras, Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel 
Spear, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Stewart, 
Mr. and M.rs. William S. Stinimel. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Tarbell, Mr. and 
Mrs. William Reed Thompson. Mr.
and Mrs. R. M. Trimble.
The chaperons will be Mr. and 
Mrs. E. M. Ashe, Mr. and Mrs. Jo
seph B. Ellis, Mr. and Mrs, Raymond 
Simboli, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wood 
Stevens.
Alumni are urged to communicate 
with the secretary. Vincent Roy,
College of Fine Arts, at once, in 
order to insure the receipt of a
Council meting for very serious conincrease in attendance at the football s:deration. but the feeling of the magnmes. it is interesting to note that iority wns that in spite of the cost of 
Tech f;eld never entertained so many same, that the program as originally 
football' fans in if.s history as l^st mnnped should he carried ou^Avithout 
season and this m spite of the fact change. CARE year is ver< --.h in j 
that three of the lames we~e played Vfie future and preset ation 1
\ M
Seventy-seven per cent of Minne
sota men students work their way 
through school, according to the 
dean's report at the University of 
Minnesota According to statistics 
2,957 men students from all jcolleges 
of the university are wnolly or 
part-'ally self supporting. { Waiting
on table as board payment is the 
most usual means of suppcrrt.
11
TO YOU 
who are just assuming the 
responsibilities of life, the 
experience, interest and 
kindly advice our officers are 
glad to put at your service 
can be made to mean much.
We cordially invite you to 
come to our bank that we 
may get acquainted.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Pa.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist,
Clyde Street, 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School ............11 A. M.
Wednesday evening service 
8 to 9
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Whitn ghoDrehs
Fiii Avenue Boot Shop
. near 48h Street, New York.
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Ar.cade, Pittsburgh.
TWOHE
ndroS Everpointed
and other Metal Pencils
^' | 'HE name VENUS is your 
JL guarantee of perfection. 
Absolutely crumble-proof,
' smooth and perfectly graded. 
7 DEGREES
2B soft 6C black Jrl med. hard 
B soft 2H hard
F firm 4H extra hard
HB mediumfor general use 
15c per tube of 12 leads;
$1.50 per dozen tubes 
Ifyour dealer cannot supply you writeus.
American Lead Pencil Co.
215 Fifth Ave.t Dept. t New York 
Ask us about the new 
VENUS EVERPOINTED PENCILS
mans
NewestCreation
Peppermint 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
melts in your 
mouth, leaving 
the deliciously 
flavored gum 
center to aid 
digestion, 
brighten teeth 
and soothe,, 
mouth and thrc
PATRONIZE O
