f *
Cyert Rules Out 
'73 Tuition Hike
September 26, 1972 Volume 73 Number 3
Students Called Customers; 
New Efficiency Moves Taken
by Steve CorrellC-MU President Richard M. Cyert pro
mised that undergraduate tuition would 
not increase for the 1973-74 academic year 
despite a projected C-MU operating deficit 
of $800,000 for 1972-73 and a deficit of 
$1.5 million as of last June. He added, 
though, that the administration of one 
C-MU college would like to raise its tuition 
above that of the other college. Cyert made 
these remarks Tuesday, September 19 in 
his State of the University speech.
Cyert noted that the budget problems 
could get worse before they get better, but 
said there is no danger that the University 
will mortgage its buildings or fail to meet 
its payroll. He said, I should probably 
leave myself a hedge on tuition, but 
stressed that he feels private institutions 
must concern themselves with the gap be
tween their charges and the fees at state 
supported schools.
Committing himself to decentralized ad
ministration, Cyert predicted he would 
avoid broad, bureaucratic control: We 
will...determine jointly the amount of 
funds that can be made available for the 
individual colleges and the specific use of 
the funds will be up to the deans, dpart
ement .heads, faculty, and students of each
college. He called on each department to 
work for greater eminence in its field.
Cyert mentioned specific campus issues 
throughout his speech. Opposing subsidies 
for services that benefit part of the campus 
at the expense of the whole, he declared 
that food service and dormitories must pay 
their own way or the university should 
try to get out of providing those particular 
services if at all possible. Denying that the 
newly formed Student Policy Committee is 
window dressing, he cited student feed
back withih GSIA that led to changes such 
as improved lighting for an auditorium 
blackboard.
Mentioning the current delay on the 
proposed joint tenancy of the Mellon In
stitute and the Music Department, Cyert 
said, I think both groups are angry at me 
and If a better (solution) is found, I will 
be overjoyed. He noted that one college 
has proposed raising its tuition above that 
of the rest of the university.
In response to questioning, Cyert ad
mitted that the administration may have 
been unfair in some of the staff firings this 
summer, but said, I think there has been 
some learning on the part of the men in 
continued on page 4
' Debbie Siegel
The students of Carnegie-Mellon are to 
be treated as a business treats customers. 
This attitude is the result of the new struc
ture of the operations division which has 
taken effect this fall. The operations divi
sion includes all non-academic departments 
such as purchasing, the book store, security, housing and food service.
President Cyert has said To call the 
student a customer is in the spirit of good 
response. Customer emphasizes importance 
of good service. Students shouldnt inter
pret the word customer literally. Presi
dent Cyert has voiced a desire to treat 
students with dignity and respect. He also 
noted a need on the part of housing and 
C food service to win students over.
There have been mixed reactions to this 
new concept of the student as a customer. 
Lynn Mackey, a CMU freshman, claimed, 
I dont approve of what the label of cus
tomer implies. The operations division is 
only looking to keep their customers. They 
arent really concerned with pleasing the 
individual. They have a captive clientele. & Some students have questioned how valid 
it is to call the university a business.
Dr. Ronald Rutledge, chief officer of 
the Operations Division initiated a change 
in all operations departments this past sum
mer by ordering major cutbacks in the size 
of work staffs. When asked about the cut 
back he replied, There were too many 
people who werent serving any real purl pose. It is not pleasant to let people go and 
we tried to find jobs for those who 
couldnt be placed somewhere else in the 
university. I was forced to fire some of my 
friends.
Dr. Rutledge was appointed chief of
ficer of operations by President Cyert be
cause of his record in the computation 
center. Cyert claims, Dr. Rutledge had the 
ability to take the computation center and 
operate it on a much lower economic basis 
with good efficiency. Rutledge is honest 
and sometimes blunt. His quick way of 
doing things makes people apprehensive, 
but I have confidence that Rutledge is 
working towards the right goal of providing 
the best service.
Many members of the staff under Rut
ledge appear to be enthusiastic about the 
new policy. David Allison, head of Food
Service, has noted the newly renamed Kilte 
Cafe (Skibo Dining Room) and the Morewood Dining Room as recent developments 
that have stemmed from the customer con
cept. We are trying to keep our cash 
prices down and improve the quality of our 
food. We hope to have nights where we can 
serve a good piece of steak and spend moncontinued on page 7
Arms Status 
For Guards 
To Be Defined
by Greg McKenna
At last weeks student government 
meeting, several issues which could pro
foundly affect students here at C-MU were 
discussed. Ron Taylor, director of Security 
Services, spoke to the Senate about parking 
fines and the use of force. This year Se
curity will be defining the role of security 
guards on campus. Also, as an incentive for 
funded organizations to keep careful 
accounts and spend allocated funds more 
conservatively, Student Senate passed an 
amendment to its fiscal policy which could 
provide organizations with more money.
Officer Taylor, a security officer him
self, explained that for an unarmed guard 
to respond to a high risk call (armed 
robbery, rape, etc.) is pointless, em
barrassing and dangerous for the guard. 
However, if the guards are to be merely 
escorts, and emergency men, then the Pitts
burgh police will be called in to deal with 
high risk emergencies. Though most of the 
officers themselves wished to be armed, 
obviously there are pros and cons to the 
situation. Any student who has anything to 
say about this important issue, should 
write to Security in care of Student Senate, 
Skibo 103.
Along with new bike racks (expected 
here October 1) come Securitys new meter 
maids and tickets that cost students 
money!
Gary Crosbie, vice-chairman of the fi
nance committee, says that Any student 
organization which as a surplus from last 
year is invited to appear before the finance 
committee on Monday, October 2, at 7:30 
p.m., to make its case for a refund. The 
criteria for refunding some or all of the 
continued on page 7
Director of Operations, Dr. Ronald RutledgeNixon Campaign Inactive At C-MU
by Gary Singer
President Nixon has built a pro
fessional campaign organization known 
by various titles such as Young Republi
cans for the Re-election of the President, 
none of which are directly concerned with 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
The Tartar! has conducted a study of 
Richard Nixons campus tactics at C-MU, 
as was done for McGovern in the last issue. 
After speaking to various, very cooperative, 
members of the Nixon organization, it be
came evident that they are all but ignoring 
this university. Edward Cox, the Presi
dents son-inlaw, visited the University of 
Pittsburgh recently, but failed to appear at 
C-MU. A mail campaign is being instigated 
at Pitt, but not here.
Although not at C-MU, a comprehen
sive, well organized campaign is conducted 
by the students for the re-election of the 
President at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Virginia Borman, one of the leaders of the 
Pitt campaign, commented that Lots of 
my friends are for Nixon. She also said 
that many students are indifferent and that 
it is these indifferent as well as the un
decided students, that her group is aiming 
for.
Unlike McGoverns central Pittsburgh 
campaign headquarters, Nixons is ex
tremely professional with a paid co
ordinator for every district of Pittsburgh in 
addition to the unpaid volunteer such as 
Miss Borman. The national coordinator of 
campus campaigns for the Committee to 
Re-elect the President, George Gordon, 
makes bulk quantities of letters, pam
phlets, envelopes, stamps, and an in
struction manual available to any campaign 
organization which calls him and requests 
such materials for mailing programs. This is 
very different from the C-MU McGovern 
volunteers predicament, who are forced by 
the lack of headquarters assistance, to pay 
for and organize all these things by them
selves.
Although Nixon is concerned with the 
youth vote, and has developed an 
efficient organization with the purpose of 
pursuading students to vote for the Pre
sident, this same organization has failed to 
make any attempt at a campaign at 
Carnegie.

---------------------------------------------------

Letters:
Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 26, 1972
editors note
Not since H. Guy ford Stevers gymnasium gaffe has any CMU figure 
been as controversial as the new Director of Operations; Dr. Ron Rut11edge. Acrimony was to be expected; accurately or not Rut 11 edge is 
viewed as hatchet man in a period of purge; economy and efficiency are 
never, contrary to political myth, popular. But the storm now raging 
exceeds all prediction.
The TARTAN will interview Dr. Ruttledge shortly. To help assure 
that the issues are covered, the questions we ask will come directly from 
you. Anyone wishing to submit a question should send it, in writing and 
clearly marked, to the TARTAN by October 2nd. Thank you.
The rock throwing, fire breathing radical we never were (fearing, if 
possible, the Pigs malevolence more than his dub) grows old and, true to 
agings form, more conservative, or at least moderate. And indeed, most 
things are now viewed more moderately.
But; curiously, some areas are viewed more strongly than ever. That 
socially acceptable contribution to the delinquency of minors, ROTC, 
grows ever more odious.
Another intolerable situation is the disdain and even contempt that 
certain Faculty members, administrators and secretaries seem to have for 
students. Apart from the customer vs. stockholder question, and the 
perennial debate over the role of students in decision making, there is a 
matter of skewed relationships.
There are certain (by no means all) members of the former group 
who simply have no simple human respect for students. Though doubting 
the efficacy of a polite appeal to common courtesy, we hereby make one. 
Perhaps you do not realize that it is impolite for a secretary-receptionist 
to leave her back turned to a waiting student, or that it is questionable 
etiquette for administrators to lie to students or (on at least one occasion) 
shut a door in their faces. You may even be ignorant of the fact that it is 
plainly boorish for faculty members to consistently interrupt and even 
shout down students in a meeting. If this is so, then please adjust your 
behavior according to this new knowledge.
Perhaps, however, a polite appeal is futile. In that case, please be 
reminded that the students pay your salary. They are not your inferiors or 
even your equals. They are your employers.
Steve Jurman
Editor in Chief....................Steve Jurman
Special Editor..........................Mina Gerall
News Editor...............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Ann Friedman, Laurel Felix, 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna, 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhaus, 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble
Features Editor ......................Dave Guida
Features Staff.....................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
j David Stewart
/Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliort Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Rick Werme, Nick Lardis 
Bruce Edelstein, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman 
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders 
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Kay wood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley
I
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout.................................Becky Carrol
Copy Staff ..............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday durjng the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
Editor:
As was mentioned in the Tartan of Sep
tember 19 and as most people associated 
with CMU have noticed, the CMU Student, 
Staff and Faculty Coalition for McGovern 
has been making a massive effort to register 
potential voters and inform them of the 
issues, including canvassing dormitories, 
staffing information tables, arranging the 
Fall Campaign Issues Forum, and preparing 
the general mailing of McGoverns views to 
the CMU campus community. Even if all 
CMU personnel who are eligible to vote 
avail themselves of the opportunities to 
register and to study the issues, and if such 
study invariably leads to the conclusion 
that a McGovern administration would be 
preferable to a continuation of the present 
administration, this would be a dispropor
tionate amount of effort to devote to about 5,000 voters. However, we cannot 
and do not intend to restrict our efforts to 
the CMU campus. The ultimate goal of the 
campus organization must be community 
involvement. Our purpose in making 
McGoverns name and positions so visible 
on campus is not only to increase the num
ber of individual votes for McGovern from 
the CMU community, but alo to attract 
volunteers to work in the surrounding com
munities. In spite of the great importance 
of the youth vote, it alone cannot win this 
election; we must have substantial support 
from other segments of the population.
Since most students have very little time 
to spare, it is imperative that as many vol
unteers as possible work in McGoverns 
campaign if anything substantial is to be 
accomplished. Anyone who has even a few 
hours between now and the election to 
devote to McGoverns campaign is urged to 
volunteer for it.
Patton Seifert (Physics Dept.)
f*byGa
Dont you ever get tired of the bullshit? ^ 
Of the committee for the committee for 
the committee? How long have we been 
trying to change Food Service? How long 
have we been complaining about the maintainance men? Did you know that after 
two years of meetings, Morewood Gardens 
is miraculously getting a coin and dollar 
changer? The final question is, of course, 
who is responsible for these changes? Dr.  
Ron Rutledge.
I am getting sick and tired of the nega
tive feelings towards Dr. Rutledge. Both he 
and I will admit that our first encounters 
were not very favorable. As a matter of 
fact, I have been one of the rumor spread
ers. This letter is to let you (the recipient 
of my rumors) know that I have a great 
deal of respect for Dr. Rutledge. I feel that 
he has made some positive changew with
out wasting time sitting for four months in 
committee meetings. Dr. Rutledge is acting 
in the interest of the students. He is not a 
timid man and he wants change.
No person is perfect. No one is always 
right or does things the right way. I have 
admitted to my first judgements; to my 
fault. Please open up and try to change 0
yours.
Marty Lesberger
(If indeed the antecedant of "you 
is me, as it seems to be, the only 
response can be that a perusal of the 
TARTAN will reveal no rumors,or 
unfairor untrue comments concerning M 
Dr. Rutledge. At such times as 
opinion may appear, it will be clearly 
identified as such.-ed.)
Effective immediately, the deadline for announcements is noon, and 
news items 5 PM , of the Wednesday before publication. The deadline for 
advertising is 11 AM of the Thursday before. No copy is
acceptable unless it is neatly typed or hand printed. Copy must be double 
spaced, correctly spelled , and properly paragraphed and punctuated.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 26, 1972Page 3
Announcements:
Students and faculty of CMU will be
offered a discount to the forty seventh 
annual Y-ICK Music Series, which begins 
on October 11. This series offers Pittsburgh 
audiences an unusual opportunity to hear 
some of the world's great artists in solo 
recital. From the same stage where Marion 
Anderson, Milstein, Segovia, Piatigorsky, 
Rubinstein, and Isaac Stern gave their Pitts
burgh recital debuts, the vivacious soprano 
Roberta Peters and the front ranking American pianist Gary Graffman will per
form. An imaginatively staged version in 
English of Mozart's sparkling comedy 
"Cosi Fan Tutte" will receive a fresh inter
pretation by a newly formed opera group 
from New York. Two exciting pianists, the 
phenomenal Israeli born Israela Margalit 
and the sensitive and versatile William Masselos will also appear.
The Music Society's tradition of intro
ducing new talent to Pittsburgh will be 
, contitinued with the debut of a brilliant 
German violinist, Rolf Schulte. Another 
concert features a tri-state area artist com
petitively selected for the Annual Passamaneck Awards.
All performances will take place at the 
Oakland Y-ICK at 315 South Beliefield 
Avenue on Wednesdays at 8:15 pm. The 
special student discount rate for the series 
is $7.00 and for faculty $15.00. To place 
your order call the Y-ICK Music Society at 
521-8010. Brochures available at Informa
tion desk, Skibo.
Student discount tickets for the Pittsburgh
Ballet Theatre will again be on sale in 
Skibo Lobby on Thursday, September 28 
from 11 am to 1:30 pm. All students are 
encouraged to take advantage of this op
portunity to save money and see Pitts
burgh's fine Ballet program.
Civil Engineering students desiring mem
bership in the CMU Student Chapter of the 
American Society of Civil Engineers should 
pay the $2 per year dues to the Treasurer 
Keith McCabe or any other A.S.C.E. of
ficer as soon as possible in PH 118B.
At the CMU Students' Gallery there is an
exhibit of hand-blown glass by CMU stu
dent glassblowers. Also featured are large 
paintings by Martin Schechter, Mark Mentzer, O'Delle Abney, and small paintings by 
James Dugas. The exhibit runs Spetember 
25 to October 7 and is open TuesdayFriday 11 am to 8 pm, Saturday 11 am to 
6 pm. The gallery is located at 5200 Forbes 
Avenue.
The Admissions Office needs people to
conduct campus tours. Interested students 
call or contact Admissions, Warner Hall 
100, Extension 211.
The Christian Science Organization will
sponsor a lecture and discussion, "Our 
Search for Identity", on Thursday, Sep
tember 28 , 4:30 to 5:30 in the Multi
purpose Room of Hunt Library. Speaking 
will be Norman B. Holmes, a Christian Sci
entist, teacher, and former Navy Chaplain.
B'nai B'rith: Come make a Hillel what you
want it to be. Interested in hearing what 
Hillel has to offer? Interested in talking to 
other students about possible projects or 
events?
All students welcome. Thursday, Sep
tember 28 at 1:00 in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo. If you cannot attend call 
621-8875.
The Samuel Rosenberg memorial Ex
hibition is running until October 5 in the 
Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts. The 
gallery is open from 9 to 4:30 daily.
The Film Workshop will hold an equip
ment demonstration and instruction ses
sion on Wednesday, September 27 at 7:00 
in Skibo Room 56. All people interested in 
using the equipment are required to attend.
BETOS PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
iipm-l am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
Aipna hm Onega is once again presenting the C-Book, the student and activitie. 
directory prepared for students, faculty and staff.
Help is needed to ensure accuracy. Anyone who at registration did not list his 
department, class, school address, school phone, and home address should mail that 
to the C-Book, Campus Box 100.
Name:
School Address:
School Phone Number:
Home Address:
Department:
Class: _________
BACK DOOR
University Coffeehouse
THIRD RIG YEAR! 
FRIDAYS - 9-1 A.M.
RODEF SHALOM BASEMENT
Entrance at 5th and 
Morewood Parking Lot
No Admission Charge! 
ENTERTAINMENT! 
FOOD
The CMU-Chatham German Film Series
presents on September 27 "Tonio Kroger", 
a film adaptation of Thomas Mann's novel
la of an artist desiring the bourgeoise life. 
With English sub-titles. In the Chatham 
Chapel, 7:45, free. On October 11 "Hokus 
Pokus" will be at CMU.
Several students, teachers, and scientists in
Pittsburgh are forming a Science for the 
People organization to relate the various 
sciences to a radical political perspective. 
The first meeting will be Tuesday, October 
3 at 8 pm at University and City Ministries, 
Fifth and Belief ield.
A Yiddish Film Festival will be presented
by the Tree of Life Congregation at Wilkins 
and Shady Avenues. The films, with Eng
lish subtitles, will be: November 19, Green 
Fields; January 28, Tevya; March 25, The 
Great Advisor. Films and refreshments will 
be in the Rosenbloom Chapel. Admission is 
50 cents.
TWO HANDS is coming again. If you have
poetry or fiction or criticism of any piece 
of writing you think is worth sharing with 
the rest of the world, then submit it to 
Two Hands. Send submission via campus 
mail to TWO HANDS, c/o English 
Department, CMU.
Attention Wrestling Candidates: There will
be a brief organizational meeting for all 
students interested in the sport of wrestling 
either as a participant or a manager. All 
students, regardless of experience, are in
vited. The meeting will be conducted by 
Coach Paul Steva in the Field House Meet
ing Room, located in the Basement of Donner Hall, on Wednesday, Spetember 27, at 
5:00 pm.
The I.M. Board is considering having an
intramural cross-country meet on a 1% 
mile course through Schenley Park. In or
der to determine the level of interest in this 
sport, anyone interested in participating 
should submit his name to Mr. Birdy, 
whose office is located in the gym.
Taking GRE exams? Eta Kappa Nu, the
electrical engineering honorary, is planning 
to hold a series of seminars for students 
planning to take GREs. Past experience has 
shown students to be well prepared within 
their department but poorly prepared in 
others. If you are interested in participat
ing, please contact J. Bloom. Box 561. 
Please indicate the time which you would 
be available.
Absentee ballot application cards for re
sidents of Allegheny County are available 
at the Skibo Information Desk. If you are a 
resident of Allegheny County and regis
tered to vote in your home town and will 
not be able to get home on election day, 
you must send in your application ^as soon 
as possible fro your absentee ballot.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 26, 1972llllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllHIII
1 Commentary
Jin Pseudodom I
lllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllillilllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIHIIIIiHIIKIIIIlillll
by Jim Slivka
( left to right ) Dr. Leonard Rapping, Robert S.Benson, Dr. William Schneider
Dhoto bv Frank Stpin
Once upon a time, a short, short time 
ago, in the Pseudodom of Ego occured a 
unique pairing in the election for Monarch. 
The incumbent had been dubbed King 
Richard I, he whose lines of ancestry root 
back into practically every other Pseudo
dom on the face of the Earth that he has 
visited, or so he claimed! His opponent for 
Monarch was a prarieman, Sir George the 
Reformer, of the House of Commonfolk. 
Richard I, of the House of Goldandsilver, 
chose Knight Spiro the Witt for his jousting 
mate. Meanwhile, George the Reformer 
had an abominable time attempting, plead
ing, begging upon bended knee, to get aMore Military Research Favored 
By Both Sides At Campaign Forum
by Gary Singer
The Fall Campaign Issues Forum pre
miered last Wednesday, with a discussion 
of Military Expenditures by Mr. Robert S. 
Benson, former assistant to the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense and a member of the 
staff of the Urban Coalition, and Dr. 
William Schneider who is presently serving 
as a legislative assistant to New York 
Senator James Buckley. Dr. Leonard 
Rapping of Camegie-Mellons Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, served 
as the moderator.
The forums, according to Edward 
Schatz, C-MU Vice President for Academic 
Affairs, (who spoke for Dr. Cyert who was
out of town on business) are not replacing 
the neutrality universities traditionally 
pursue in political affairs. He said that you 
can still remain neutral yet not keep silent. 
There is a big difference between silence 
and discussion and it is the purpose of 
these forums to promote thought and dis
cussion. Mr. Schatz also informed the 
audience that although there might be a 
short recess after the Presidential Election, 
there will be more forums before the end 
of the school year.
Mr. Benson discussed the military 
spending programs and alternatives (the 
present program is terribly inefficient) 
and supported Senator George McGoverns 
expenditure policy whileDr. Schneider de
fended the present program, saying military is at a record low for a post war 
period. Both speakers supported, as do 
their candidates, continued military re
search spending. This is of particular sig
nificance to Carnegie, since we are partially 
supported by such funds.
Tomorrows forum is titled Income Re
distribution - Tax and Welfare Reform. 
Robert Eisner, an economic advisor to 
Senator McGovern, and Allan Meltzer, a 
Professor of Economics at C-MU and acting 
Dean of GSIA, will debate this election 
year issue at 7 p.m. in the Ballroom. All 
members of the campus community are 
welcome and there will be a question and 
answer period following the formal add
resses by the two speakers.
partner. Edward of Hyannis, Hubert the 
Perennial, Edmund the Frontrunner, and 
Abraham the Newlywedded were some of 
the noble men who truned down his offer 
after Thomas of the House of Eagle was 
most untimely waylaid. Sargent the In-Law 
was sought out by the Reformer but had to 
wait while the offer was scrutinized by the 
High Council of Hyannis Port. The In-Law 
accepted after consultation with Ethel the 
Fertile, Edward of Hyannis, Rose, mother 
of John the Monarch and Robert of Camelot, and others. With Sargent the In-Law as 
his jousting partner George began to tra
verse Ego trying to dethrone King Rich
ard I and Spiro the Witt.
It has been said of this campaign that 
the citizenry of Ego was quite confused as 
to who was actually seeking the high office 
of Monarch. From the House of Goldand
silver alighted Henry the Philanderer, John 
of Volpee--the Catholique, Frank of Rizzoo from the House of Lawandorder, Hugh 
the Fatt of the House of Scott, Clark of 
MacGreagor, Robert the Phinch from Reagandom, Sammy the Black of the House of 
David, and the most outspoken, John the 
Turncoat from the Land of Ellbeejay, late 
of the House of Commonfolk, but heading 
a movement called Commonfolk for the 
Coronation of the King of Goldandsilver.
On the other side of the moat, George 
the Reformer had Edward of Hyannis, 
Ramsey of Clark the Blunderer, Hubert the 
Perennial, a Loyalist, Kathleen, daughter of 
Robert of Camelot, Shirley from the Lane, 
a trouper, and Richard Boss of Cook, hit
ting the dusty road hoping to guide George 
the Reformer into the HOuse of White.FallCampaignIssuesForum*
FALL CAMPAIGN ISSUES FORUM 2
Wednesday, September 27 7 pm Skibo Ballroom
INCOME REDISTRIBUTION - TAX AND WELFARE REFORM
ROBERT EISNER:
ALLAN MELTZER:
Professor Eisner is a leading proponent of Keyensian 
economics and is an economic advisor to Senator 
George McGovern. He is presently Professor of 
Economics at Northwestern University.
Professor Meltzer is best known for his research 
in monetary economics. He is the Maurice Falk 
Professor of Economics at Camegie-Mellon and 
Acting Dean of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration:
These debates are open to the public.
President's Speech
continued from page 1 
Rutledge, newly appointed Director of 
Operations was directly involved, saying 
the alleged cruelties were a consequence 
of placing too much faith in certain 
people.
About 70 students, including sound and 
PA technicians, attended the speech, which 
was scheduled during the 11:30-1:30 
assembly period. It was also broadcast by 
WRCT. During the hour before the 
assembly, the TARTAN interviewed stu
dents at random, asking them, Do you 
plan to go hear President Cyert speak?
I didnt know he was toing to. (G.G., 
Arch)
Ive got a voice class. (S.V.. Music)___
AN ADDRESS OF DISTINCTION
A limited number of select Studio rooms and Suites__
all air conditioned  are still available.
Monthly Rentals from $160.00
In the heart of the University-Cultural Center, here is 
truly an address of distinction, a location of conven
ience, a life-style of leisure.
 24 Hr. Switchboard & 
Message Service
 Coffee Shop, Restaurant & 
Lounge
 Room Service
 Adjacent Parking
 Maid & Porter Service
 Automatic Elevators
 Barber Shop &
Beauty Parlor 
24 Hr. Security
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
621-7700
All The Conveniences Of Home And Then Some"
No, I didnt know it was going on. 
charge of dismissals. He denied that Ronald 
(C.H., Chem E)
I heard him speak before and I was 
bored to death. (No initials, Civ E)
Ive got too much work. Theres a pro
ject due tomorrow. (R.S., Arch)
Well, I dont usually get involved in 
political things, I mean like campus po
litics. Besides, the president of the school I 
went to before never said anything im
portant. (C.B., History)
Let me check my schedule. (R.R., 
Modern Lang)
Why bother? (D.S., English)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 26, 1972Page 5
McGovern's Economist To 
Debate C-MU Monetarist
Dr. Allan Meltzer, acting dean of GS1A 
and a national leader of the monetary (con
servative) school of economics, will meet 
Dr. Robert Eisner, a top McGovernGynecologist 
Called For
by Cris Infante
Not quite two years ago, a committee 
was appointed to investigate the needs of 
women at C-MU. The committees final 
report of October 1971 revealed the need 
for a campus gynecologist. According to 
Dean Swank, this finding would present an 
immediate strain on the 1972-73 budget, 
which he felt could not cope with the 
additional expense. When Mr. Swank re
quested $3600 to cover the costs for the 
first semester and $2400 for the second, he 
received a budget restraint, which im
plied the necessity of terminating some 
other student activity in exchange for 
the services of a gynecologist.
The plan called for office hours only 
one day per week and only three hours per 
day, at the added cost of ten dollars per 
visit per student. Those who were en
couraging free services hardly found it 
suitable, while others declared that at best 
only twelve women each week would be 
cared for. Compounding the matter was 
the concern that the addition of even one 
specialist to health services would warrant 
demands for other specialists. Dr. Cyert 
met with student representatives of Panhel, 
the Dean of Women, Dorm Councils, and 
various other school organizations of which 
four out of fifteen were women. At the 
meeting, it was pointed out that until a 
more desirable plan could be implemented, 
the issue should be closed, as it wasfelt that 
a sufficient number of off-campus doctors 
would satisfy the needs of student women 
with lettle inconvenience. Considering the 
added cost to studerts, it was further 
pointed out that inexpensive services were 
readily available. Sue Christian, formerly of 
the Young Womens Christian Association, 
however, recently received word from the 
Pittsburgh Free Clinic and the Planned 
Parenthood Program that neither wants the 
patronage of students with other options.
For now the issue remains unsettled, 
though not closed. On Tuesday, September 
19th, Dr. Cyert met with the Monitoring 
Committee and other members of the stu
dent body. Out of this meeting arose yet 
another committee who will explore the 
matter of gynecological services. Marty 
Lisberger, Chairman, was conficent that 
until such services could be available on 
campus, every attempt would be made to 
set up an off-campus service system.
economic advisor, tomorrow might at 7:00 
p.m. in the Ballroom to discuss Income 
Redistribution - Tax and Welfare Reform.
The debate will be the second in the 
Fall Campaign Issues Forum initiated by 
President Cyert.
This should be a great debate, claims 
Director of Student Activities, Bob 
McCurdy. Meltzer who has a reputation as 
a determined debator, is expected to care
fully draw lines of difference with his 
opponent. Eisner will be defending Senator 
McGoverns controversial economic pro
posals that have been under fire for the 
past summer.
The program is free and open to the 
public.
Dr. Herbert Simon will speak about his trip to China tonight photo by Carl GrefenstetteNew Frat RushFeatures Beer0 r. n , r .And Informality Simon Back From China,To Tell of Maos ScienceThe biggest hit with the fraternity 
houses, during rush, according to John Bell 
CFP President, was the idea of a wet 
rush allowing freshmen to partake of beer 
at the mixers and smokers, thus making the 
atmosphere more relaxed. This year the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents deceided 
to give each house a free reign with rush, 
abolishing all rules and regulations, per
mitting rush to be an individual house 
event. The general attitude of the houses is 
that it is easier to get to know a person 
over a glass of beer, than to badger them 
with a door to door kind of politicking.
The major complaint coming from rush 
chairmen is the fact that summer rush got 
off to a poor start, involving loss of poten
tial freshmen pledges. Another comment is 
that first semester rush is too short. There 
is not enough time to really get to know 
the freshmen men, and in the case of 
houses rushing girls, there is not enough 
time to approach the women with the idea 
of pledging a fraternity. They mainly want 
time to get to know people first, pledging 
comes second. Some houses went so far as 
to visit freshmen in their hometowns be
fore the start of school to better orient 
them to college life.
A new approach to fraternity living is 
the stress on the individuality of each 
house. Freshmen should become aware of 
the merits of each house on a one to one 
basis, and go through rush with the idea 
that there are differences between houses, 
as there are between people. The trend 
seems to be turning once again to frat style 
living as a way of creating a more together 
type of experience on a college campus. 
The advantages of pledging a fraternity are 
many.
by Anne Friedman
Dr. Herbert Simon, who spent two and 
a half weeks in China as a guest of the 
Academy of Science this summer, will talk 
on the organization of science and tech
nology in China, tonight in the Ballroom at 
8:30 p.m. Dr. Simon believes that there is a 
definite difference between science under 
Mao and science in the rest of the world.
He and six other computer scientists 
thought that it would be an interesting trip 
to make, and through the Ottawa embassy, 
they arrived there July 10th.
The frankness and openess of the 
Chinese technologists greatly impressed Dr. 
Simon, as well as their technology. The 
computers, he stated, are quite modern, 
and all the work seems to have been done 
by themselves. As far as he could tell all 
components and parts were made in China
and the quality was good.
Dr. Simons overall impression of his 
stay was favorable. He visited Peking, 
where he had dinner with the president of 
the Science Academy, Shaing Hai and Contong. In the areas that he visited, he found 
no indication of starvation. The people, 
their two room homes, their clothes-white 
shirts and black pants were full of sim
plicity. He saw no private automobiles, 
only bicycles. Dr. Simon commented that 
since most of the women work, not many 
people cook in their homes. He found it 
interesting to see families, early in the 
morning, going to restaurants to eat their 
breakfast.
The contrast was great, Simon said, 
when he left China to stay in Japan. Gone 
was the simplicitywestern influence was 
in abundance.
EflCtbttJOCfs
EXCHANGE
683-6818
handcraft marketplace
tues 
- B " "t209 n craigOakland
NTERESTED IN:
This Week on Perspective:
C-MU Chief of Operations: 
DR. RONALD RUTTLEDGE
TUNE IN SUNDAY AT 6:15 
FOR
QUESTIONS and ANSWERS
rwRci
Computers, English, 
Metallurgy, Painting,
History, EE, Printmaking, 
Voice, Physics, Math,
Creative Writing, Mech. E., 
Weaving, Statistics,
Philosophy, Drama,
E and PA, Biotechnology, 
Music, French. Design,
Social Relations, or Graphics?
TELL THE WORLD
Be A C-MU TOURGUIDE!
? ADMISSIONSA
WH 1 00  EXT. 21 1

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 26, 1972
Mahauishnu "Unique
//
Pitt Racing Team 
Invites C-MU Members
by Dave Guida
The University of Pittsburgh has estab
lished Americas first college racing team 
from an idea conceived three years ago by 
Bob Fryer, a political science major at Pitt. 
Fryers idea brings career training from 
theoretical manipulation to practical app
lication. The most important benefit to all 
students is the opportunity to apply class
room experience to the real-world cha
llenge of competitive auto racing.
The idea began when Bob and a group 
of friends purchased a burned out Camaro, 
which they resolved to transform into a 
Trans-Am race car. Working after class and 
on weekends with a few donated tools, the 
crew completed repairs one year later. En
thusiastic, but weary, the group entered 
the car in their first Sports Car Club of 
America Regional Race. After one and a 
half laps, the Camaro rolled to a halt. Dis
appointed, the solemn crew returned to 
Pitt. A small article in the student news
paper, recounting the dismal episode, drew 
an overwhelming response of over two hun
dred interested and sympathetic students. 
The group of enthusiasts was organized, 
but the financial obstacles of their under
taking had yet to be overcome.
Fryer made a formal presentation to 
University officials, outling student bene
fits as well as national publicity for Pitt. He 
pointed out that collegiate auto racing was 
a serious and complex sport which har
monized with classroom instruction, and 
which represented a laboratory where stu
dents could test and develop theories. 
Business Administration students could 
contact sponsors and budget funds. Journalsim students could write news articles, 
and photographers would be provided with 
new and stimulating material for class assig
nments. The Pitt hierarchy agreed that the 
spectrum of experience provided by colle
giate auto racing was extensive, and 
accepted the idea with great enthusiasm. 
The team was chartered as an official stu
dent organization, with the same privileges 
as any fraternity of sorority on campus. 
Financial assistance was secured from en
lightened Gulf Oil Corporation executives, 
who also provided research and deWORSHIP
Sponsored by 
LUTHERAN 
CAMPUS MINISTRY
Sundays: 10:30 a.m.
LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY 
CENTER CHAPEL 
4515 Forbes
?
6:30 p.m.
HEINZ MEMORIAL 
CHAPEL 
Pitt Campus
velopement facilities. The dream of college 
auto racing had become a reality! 
Last year, the Pitt team was invited to 
the National Classic, the American Road 
Race of Champions, where it qualified se
cond among some of the nations best. To 
date, the team has won two of its last three 
national events. Each year, 22,710 dollars 
is paid to the student body through job 
salaries generated by a new service station 
donated by the Gulf Oil Corporation. 
Active team members receive free trans
portation, lodging, and track admission on 
fifteen race weekends throughout the year. 
In an attempt to provide more students 
with the opportunity of participating in 
collegiate auto racing, Bob Fryer has 
announced that team membership is open 
to all Carnegie-Mellon enthusiasts. He fur
ther commented, We are interested in 
people that have the simple integrity to 
perform work with enthusiasm and persistance. We can always use competent help 
in the areas of race mechanics, publicity, 
engineering, bookkeeping, secretarial 
duties, and photography. If you are 
attracted by such a challenge, contact Bob 
Fryer at 723 Washington Avenue, Bridgeville, Pa., or call 221-5144. Perhaps, some
day, auto races will become as popular as 
our traditional buggy races.
A-V Hardware From 
Student Activities
A small amount ot Audio-Visual hard
ware has been assigned to the Department 
of Student Activities for rental. This equip
ment includes a 16mm. proj., an 8 mm. 
proj., a carousel proj., a tape recorder, a 
phonograph, an overhead projector and a 
screen. Rental rates have been established 
by the half-day, day, week-end and week. 
Equipment is only available to recognized 
University organizations or non-University 
groups holding meetings in Skibo.
All equipment will be reserved and 
issued on a first-come, firstserve basis and 
can only be reserved and checked out 
during the hours of 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., Mon-( 
day through Friday. Equipment can be re
turned anytime the building is open. All 
requests for equipment should be directed 
to the Office of Student Activities, Skibo 
103. None of the equipment will be rented 
for personal use due to the minimal 
amount available and the heavy or
ganizational demand anticipated.
Organizations desiring a microphone set 
-up in either the Skibo Ballroom or 
Wherrett Room will have to pay a $10.00 
booth fee plus the cost of a student 
operator. Film showings from the Skibo 
A-V Booths can only be run by authorized 
personnel at an hourly charge rate. If you 
have any questions, see Mr. McCurdy in 
Skibo 103 or call him at Ext. 214 or 421.
by Steve Perkins
The Mahavishnu Orchestra has to be one 
of the most unique and powerful musical 
groups in existance. The music they play 
isnt rock and it isnt jazz-it combines the 
driving intensity of rock with elements of 
avant-garde jazz and classical music and 
almost unrivalled instrumental virtuosity. 
Their skillful use of doubling instruments 
and electronic effects creates a tapestry of 
sound which is truely orchestral in scope 
and their rhythmic precision is nothing 
short of incredible. 'In concert they are 
overwhelming-an undefinable sort of 
emotional force is present with both the 
band and the audience.
Guitarist and leader John McLaughlin 
writes all the groups material. Most of his 
compostions are based on a mantra-like 
repeating bass figure which, due to volume 
and electronic distortion, soon comes to 
resound like a gong. The tempo is set 
(often in an irregular meter) by the bril
liant drumming of Billy Cobham, and over 
this foundation McLaughlin, violinist Jerry 
Goodman and pianist Jan Hammer create a 
complex musical embroidery. It often be
comes difficult to tell where what 
McLaughlin has written leaves off and imporvisation begins, for two of the musi
cians will often piay a seemingly im
provised passage together with such clock
work precision that it could not be so.
The Mahavishnu Orchestra plays quite 
loud much of the time but the instruments 
are always perfectly balanced and the loud
ness gives a sense of depth that I have never 
experienced with any other loud band. The 
loudness actually enhances the texture of
the music instead of distorting it as with so 
many other groups. The groups overall use 
of dynamics was again quite orchestral in 
nature and totally unrivalled by any other 
rock or jazz ensemble.
The supernatural is an element which 
must also be taken into account in 
evaluating the music of the Mahavishnu 
Orchestra. John McLaughlin is a follower 
of Eastern religion and he speaks of a spirit 
being present when he plays. Indeed, from 
the way he moves his head and moves 
about the stage he looks like a puppet of 
some powerful force manipulating his body 
and his guitar. He plays faster than any 
other guitarist I have ever heard and it is 
easy to see him in the role of medium as 
well as musician. The other musicians also 
seem possessed by a force, but to a lesser 
degree than McLaughlin. I have neverheard 
five people play so much like a single unit. 
There is an air of dignity and solemnity to 
the performance as if a religious ceremony 
were being conducted. The spirit of which 
McLaughlin speaks is a reality at least for 
himself and the other members of the 
band.
The music of the Mahavishnu Orchestra 
reminds me somewhat of the work of the 
french avante-garde composer and organist 
Oliver Messiaen. Messiaen is a mystic like 
McLaughlin but the basis for his mysticism 
is Roman Catholicism rather than Indian 
philosophy. I wonder if Messiaen and 
McLaughlin are aware of each others 
music and if they would ever come to 
collaborate. The results might be very in
teresting.
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIU!Rattlesnake Charley Rear!
y I
^iiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiHiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiimiNiiiiiimiiniiiiiiiiiMiiiiiimiiiHiiiiimiiiHiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiR
*N0 * STUDfcNTIA.HC OOT Of LOCK
THE UMWC.SlT'f
CR*CK.S DO WfJ ' ...
__ j CMA*LY ! wMfc-rS jf-N M-L Sept m ber2 j
t:.
eosnLD?! WHATD
! *OU MfcVE M VOO, MMJ ?
co nct iu ePOONO or ,ANO h !
> /

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 26, 1972Page 7
Martin Mull Album 
Fun Listening
by Terry Caywood
If you were to stumbel across Martin 
Mulls album while sifting through the 
racks at The Free Peoples Store, you pro
bably wouldnt buy it. Adorned with early 
Warner Brothers cartoon style cover art 
and a hand-tinted photo of Mull himself, 
you might let your eyes pass it by. But 
hitting one initially as a cross between a 
conservative Van Dyke Parks and a beefedup Randy Newman, Martin Mulls new al
bum has some rather interesting stuff.
The album opens up with a track titled 
Ventriloquist Love that is rather weak 
musically, compared with many of the 
others, but has intriguing lyrics: Ven
triloquist love/it aint such a groove/when
ever I kiss you, honey/your lips never 
move. One of the strongest cuts is Eggs, 
reminicent of an old 78 out of the de
pression. It extolls the virtues of chicken 
over eggs, and features Mulls wife playing 
the Sunbeam Electric Frypan. The next 
cut, Miami, seems to contribute very 
little to the album. The words have no 
great significance, and the music is not 
anything to be thought of. The best that 
can be said is its kind of nice.
Livin above My Station is a Johnny 
Cash bit with some vaguely clever lyrics 
about a gas station owner/attendant. It 
moves easily into Losers Samba. Nicely 
arranged, it again reminds many of Randy 
Newman. Where Randy relies soley on ly
rics and a few stray piano riffs, though, 
Martin strolls between sax solos and fox
trot rythms that embellish his style to a 
point of causing one to wonder why Mr. 
Newman doesnt at least consider imitating 
his imitator maybe just a little.
The last cut of the side is also one of the 
biggest thrills of the album: Dancing in 
the Nude. The name is self-explanatory
and it is so well done, it wont offend your 
mother when you play it for her. She 
might enjoy the arrangement a lot.
The second side commenses with 
Partly Marion, an up-tempo samba about 
a young girl who had her ring finger cut off 
in a washing machine. The song trails off 
into a pleasant little jam. (I Made Love to 
you in a) Former Life continues where 
Dancing in the Nude left off. Working 
on an extension of the age-old HaventI-seen-you-somewhere-before line, the 
Randy Newman-ness comes through 
greatest here. The ragged saxaphone fills 
the gaps between lines and makes the song 
a complete joy to hear.
Margie the Midget is about his wife, I 
suppose, but I dont think it matters. The 
song isnt all that good anyway. What 
follows is however. Hors DOeuvre, 
something one would expect from Bonzo 
Dog Band, is a very simple thing that plays 
on words through a melody that sounds as 
if it has been lifted from A Man and a 
Woman. Its delightful, and the theft can 
easily be overlooked.
The finale is Songwriters Blues (or 
Duet for piano and janitor) that offers 
explanation (or justification) for the al
bum. Very curt and to the point, Martin 
Mull exposes his style, bares his soul in
stead of his sense of humor. I gotta be 
nuts to try and please them/ I guess I am, 
just a little bit/but Im stuck on rhyming 
for the simple reason/I just might get a 
hit.
Martin Mull may never get that hit. His 
music is too far removed from what today 
is regarded commercial material. But his 
album is a collection of songs that are just 
fun listening. And they are mild.
Martin Mull can be heard daily 
WRCT/9.
on
Not Earth Rendin 
Merely Memorable
by Frederick Gormley
Much of the time I spend writing a film 
review is spent trying to be clever with the 
opening paragraph, or at least the opening 
line. So the elapsed time since the actual 
viewing of the film reviewed this time is 
about a week, far to long to keep impres
sions pure and free from the flotsam that 
clutters the mind in a week. I must apolo
gize, but my days with Mrs. Nelson and her 
Creative Writing for Advanced High 
School Juniors class haunt me even now. 
Old idiosyncracies dont die, they fester.
This is the excuse I have been using, 
albeit subconsciously, to avoid making any 
kind of definitive statement about the film 
to be reviewed. That film is Marjoe.
For those of you who are phobic about 
newspapers, Maijoe is a film that opened 
in New York City this July to mixed and 
very puzzled reviews. Confounded, they 
were. Its not that the subject matter was 
overly cerebral (as 2001 was first 
thought to be) but the critics didnt know 
how to handle this film with their pens and 
typewriters, much less their minds. And I 
dont pretend I can. either.
A little history: Marjoe Gortner was a 
child prodigy of the revival tent circuit, 
performing marriages at the age of four 
(though California contested their validity) 
and doing various other church-related 
minor miracles. Now at twenty-seven Mar
joe Gortner wants to make the split with 
the laying-on-of-hands business permanent, 
to confess his sins and absolve himslef. So
ARE YOU . . . Male, 21-30-yrs.? 
HEALTHY? 150-200 lbs.? NonSmoker? Interested in earning 
extra money on weekends? . . .
IF YOU ANSWER "YES" to all of 
the foregoing questions and de
sire further information, please 
send name, address and tele
phone No. to:
BIODECISION LABORATORIES 
Hotel Webster Hall 
4415 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Enthusiastic Zeut/e Middles 
M Zroubled Playhouse
by Nonie Dempsey
If youve never seen it, see it; if youve 
seen it before, see it again. As with any 
outstanding piece of art, Fiddler on the 
Roof is well worth experiencing more than 
once (this was my third time around). 
Fiddler stands the strain of repeated 
viewing better than any other musical, and 
unlike the poor Jews of Anatevka, its 
career, thus far, has been far from pre
carious. Tuesday night, playing to a shame
fully small house, Kurt Kasznar as a hu
morous though somewhat cold Tevye led 
the cast in an enthusiastic show. Beyond 
the delightfully written discussions Tevye 
has with God, we were also treated to 
Kasznars rare gift of funny mumble and 
throaty bass combined in If I Were a Rich 
Man.
Golde, if we are able to believe Lynn 
Archers interpretation, is a robot made of 
steel and the only reason she answers 
yes to Tevyes Do you love me? is 
because shes programmed that way. Freda 
Alber, a graduate of the Carnegie-Tech dra
ma department was passable as the shrew
ish Yente although she evoked little of the 
characters humor.
Barbara Lynn Block, Donna Pelc and 
Suzanne Cook were refreshing as the three
Operations
some film makers approached Marjoe about making this movie (following him about on his final tour of revival services; he 
resorts to the tent-circuit when he needs 
money). But the exploitation is on various 
levels, therefore the approach becomes 
confusing.
Marjoe exploits us, the film makers, and 
the people; the poor, stupid people under 
the tent. The film makers exploit Marjoe 
and his talent (he has one) and us. So 
whos to blame? Why blame anyone? The 
question to ask finally, if you want to ask a 
question, is if you like Marjoe Gortner as a 
person. 1 do not, but Maijoe doesnt care if 
you care for him or not. He states in the 
film that, I think of myself as just bad, 
and not evil. This is the essence of the film, 
and what makes it worth seeing; the atti
tudes reflected in it. And also for the fact 
you will see a very good autobiographical 
piece of film. Not earth-rending, merely 
memorable.
oldest daughters. All of them displayed 
strong singing voices and despite Donnas 
neon grin, all gave excellent performances.
David Emge as Perchik, Earl Boen as the 
butcher and Eddie Steinfeld as the Inn
keeper were other notables in the cast.
The real highpoints of the show how
ever, were provided by the ensemble in the 
To Life and the wedding sequences. Both 
scenes were well choreographed and the 
dancing throughout the performance was 
energized and exciting. (A special Bravo! to 
the bottle dancer with the glazed eyes.)
Scenery and costuming were generally 
well handled although make-up crew would 
do well to appoint a few back-stage beardcheckers (elastic chin straps showing are 
really inexcusable).
Fiddler on the Roof is a fine opener and 
will continue through October 15 Tuesday-Saturday evenings at 8:40 p.m. and 
Sunday matinees at 3:00 p.m. The Box 
Office number is 641-4445.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse deserves 
capacity crowds (i.e., our support) and 
should not be forced to ask for one dollar 
votes for Quality Theatre before each per
formance.
continued from page 1 
ey on specific things. With the new coupon 
books students can purchase, we are inves
tigating the possibility of a 5% discount of 
their price in October.
Other ideas were offered by Mr. Heinlein, head of Purchasing. We are trying to 
be cost conscious with the customers 
dollar. We must be self supporting. This is 
one reason why parking spaces are costing 
money this year. He also added that, We 
hope our prices can be maintained at their 
specific levels.Student Senate
continued from page 1 
surplus, as stated in section 5 of the stu
dent government fiscal policy outline, 
basically requires that the organization de
monstrate financial responsibility. Any 
organization which cannot produce a re
cord of all transactions for scrutiny by the 
finance committee will be considered financailly irresponsible, and therefore, that 
organization will not be given considera
tion.
Student Senate gave Dr. Cyert a petition 
with 300 signatures requesting a bus shelter 
at Forbes and Morewood. PAT is waiting 
for the Universitys approval.
RUGS
lor !
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 S29 $49
dpa fact, IfelH 11*15* *.
 WHO LESALI FURNITURE  
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Pimtw Chain, IgHiiRy Chain, 
lamp, (k. Largar Fwmitwco timi
CHASES
542* WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPflN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 o.m. to 5 p.m.)
. Cm *21-1025

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, September 26, 1972
the SLIMMER side of SPORTS Tartans Open Saturday
IM SEASON UNDERWAY
As the fall semester begins at CMU, so 
begins another promising Intramural sea
son. Those sports that have already begun 
are: touch football (commissioner: Ralph 
Hershberger), tennis (Jeff Getz), and golf 
(John Carrera). Those soon to begin in
clude Co-Rec volleyball, water polo, and 
socder. The rosters for these sports are due 
October 3rd.
The members of this years I.M. board 
are: BTP, ATO, BSP, DTD, TX, TDP, 
Dorms, At large, Grads, Officials CLub, 
and Managers Club. The officers are headed 
by Pete Hoysan, President, with Vice Presi
dent Joe Butera, and Secretary Ralph 
Hershberger. The next meeting of the I.M. 
Board is Tuesday, September 26 in the 
Black Cat Lounge and every team should 
be represented.
The touch football season at CMU be
gan Tuesday, September 19 after three 
weeks of preparation by the various teams. 
The Major League consists of twelve teams 
this year which includes, not surprisingly, 
some real talent.
The National League is headed by the 
one and only PKA, football champs for the 
last three consecutive years, and, conserva
tively speaking, a strong favorite to repeat 
this year. Their strength will come once 
again from quarterback Barry Benjamin, or 
Big B as his teammates prefer to call 
him. The Black Magics should also be 
strong contenders while the Wild Bunch for 
the present can only be given a question 
mark.
The American League appears to be equally strong. Salt and Pepper, third place 
finishers last year, should find a little 
something extra this year with the ac
quisition of Jeff Hollis. The team to beat in 
this league, however should be BTP, con
sistently strong contenders and ready to
roll this year with return of many starters 
including quarterback Ralph Raunch 
Hershberger.
The final standings should look some
thing like this:
National: PKA A; Black Magic; Wild 
Bunch; Red Death; SAE; PKT.
American: BTP A; Salt & Pepper; 
ATO; Balnox; SW; Delta Tree.
In the minor leagues anything can hap
pen but The Taxi and The Oakland As 
should take the top spot in each respective 
league.
Tennis also began last week with 13 
teams entered in the competition. Since 
the defending champion, Mudge, failed to 
enter a team this year, the intramural 
tennis championship is up for grabs. After 
observing the first few matches, indications 
are that the net League is the stronger of
Tennis also began last week with 13 
teams entered in the competition. Since 
the defending champion, Mudge, failed to 
enter a team this year, the intramural 
tennis championship is up for grabs. After 
observing the first few matches, indications 
are that the net League is the stronger of 
the two leagues. Phi Kappa Theta, the 
Tennis Bs, Kappa Sigma, and Knell have 
all appeared strong in their early victories. 
Tau Delta Phi, Caplan, and Sigma Nu 
appear to be the stronger teams in the 
Racket League. Two new teams, Paul A.C. 
and Sopors, could possibly provide the lea
gue with some tough competition.
Roster entries for co-rec volleyball, 
water polo, and soccer are due Tuesday, 
October 3. Also, the I.M. Board is con
sidering having an intramural cross-country 
meet on a 1% mile course through 
Schenley Park. Anyone interested in par
ticipating should submit his name to Mr. 
Birdy in order to determine the degree of 
interest in this proposed sport.
Another year of intercollegiate 
athletic competition has bestowed its 
graces upon the C-MU community, 
but its arrival has been greeted with 
mixed emotions. Enthusiasm from 
the grass roots, the students, has 
dwindled to a small trickle. The foot
ball team could muster only eight 
lettermen among its meager thirty. 
Basketball and wrestling organi
zational meetings have been dis
appointing at best, although the 
soccer and cross-country teams are 
vastly improved.
But an unexpected ray of hope 
shone through one late A ugust morn 
when President Cyert appeared on 
the football field to offer the "Presi
dents Message to the Team, ty
pically a sixty second grunt by our 
former Chief Executive. But one 
could tell from the onset that Dr. 
Cyert brought something more with 
him than just a bag of hot air. He 
had jogged from Warner Hall to the 
Gym to meet with Raymond 
Haynes, Director of Athletics Thats 
a far cry from a long black Chrysler 
with your own chauffer.
He then gathered the team around 
him and spoke of the role of inter
collegiate athletics at C-MU. But 
after 75 minutes, he was still talking. 
He spoke of his own college athletic 
career. He spoke of the characterbuilding aspects of sports and how 
they carry through the rest of your 
life. And, he spoke in the hope that 
in the very, very near future, C-MU's 
name will be associated with 
winning. Theres no point in 
playing to lose!, he said.
But more important than the 
words he spoke, was the way he 
spoke them. His enthusiasm is indeed 
contageous, and for the first time in 
a decade the word "optimism has 
entered the C-MU Sports Dictionary.
Dont miss the boat. Inter
collegiate athletics at C-MU is the 
up-and-coming thing.
Support your team, if not as a 
participant, then as a rooter. The 
enthusiasm is catching.
Jim Brogan
Thinclads Romp
photo by Greg Nickel
Dennis Sullivan
Saturday wasnt a beautiful day, but it 
was a nice one: cool, crisp, good for 
running; a good day for our first meet.
Usually we take em on one at a time. 
Saturday, we raced three teams, defeating 
the Jeannette Harriers 20 to 36, St. 
Francis,18 to 37, and W&J, 15 to 43.
The experience and the mileage are 
starting to pay off for Coach Gary 
Meckleys thinclads. Two years ago, we had 
a good team; our top mans time was about 
23:30 over the 4.2 Mile Schenley Course. 
Saturday, we had three men under this 
time, wiht Greg Dewey commanding the 
field and setting a new CMU course record 
of 22:15. Ken Kloes finished second, 
followed by teammates McKay, Hawkins, 
Hyatt, Bingham, and Eberle.
The times were especially fast for an 
opening meet. In their first year in the 
PAC, The Tartan Harriers are beginning to 
look like the team to be reckoned with.
The next meet is Saturday, September 
30 at Hiram.
C-Club to Meet
An attempt to re-organize the C-Club, 
CMUs Varsity Club, has been undertaken 
by Wrestling Coach Paul Steva and Basket
ball Coach Jeff Hollis. It is their hope to 
band CMU*s Athletes into an effective bar
gaining body to improve the position of 
the Varsity Athlete at this school.
The first meeting of the C-Club will be 
Monday, October 2, at 10:00 p.m. in Breed 
Hall, MMCC. All Varsity Athletes and fu
ture candidates are invited and urged to 
attend.
Tri-Captains Chris O'Leary, John Sabol and Ray Terza hope to lead the Tartans 
to victory Saturday against Oberlin.
The football Tartans will be trying to 
even their record this Saturday at Tech 
Field against the Yeomen of Oberlin Col
lege. Last year, CMUwon easily, 35-0.
This year in their first game, however, 
the Tartans were soundly trounced by 
F&M, 22-0. Defensively, the Tartans play
ed well, but could muster no offense. With 
an open date last Saturday, the Plaid of
fense has had time to work on much need
ed improvements. If Jim Allera can find 
receivers Charlie Price and Brian Carlock
and the line blocks well, CMU should score 
enough to win.
Defensively, the Tartans have looked as 
good as ever. Art Hunkele, a three-year 
veteran end returned to the squad this 
week and should tie down the right side of 
the line. Linebackers Sabol, Terza and 
Bralkowski are healthy once more and 
tough as ever.
This weeks practices have been spirited 
and lively, a good indication for a victory. 
Come out Saturday and watch the Plaid 
even the score.
photo by John Shettel
Peter Moses leads the soccer attack as C-MU triumphs over Duquesne 3-0 on 
September 18. The TARTANS continue unbeaten after downing St. Vincent 
3-1 on Saturday.
, J '  '2
