Inside
Sports...........................................................................12
Diversions
Critic Stomps show
 see page L9
Features
Rape poses invisible threat to students
 see page LI
Sports
Super Bowl review 
 see page 12w
THE TARTAN
Volume 90, Issue 14Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190629 January 1996
Volume90 ,Is14Ca oururnuo gu9mli
Critcsho rw epacthpso gcL9spreh 
CMU 9LiRep nivpsb gchepl huc9lh 9s 9 utchh drewctcedc Icwrtc sbc 
R9pvce wLpSbs rw sbc hu9dc hbissLc Discovery.
By KENNETH J. KRAEMER
Tartan Ed.itor-in-Chi.ef
[Ed. Note: Please see related story, 
page L3.]
Yesterday, January 28, marked 
the tenth anniversary of the ex
plosion of the Challenger space 
shuttle, in which Dr. Judith 
Resnik, a Carnegie Mellon elec
trical engineering alumnus, died 
with six others.
She died reaching for the sky, 
said an emotional Angel Jordan, 
University Professor of Electri
cal and Computer Engineering.
Judith Resnik was, according to 
Dr. Jordan, an exceptional person. 
She attracted attention because 
she was a leader, he said.
Dr. Jordan, then-Electrical En
gineering department head, 
formed one of the first student ad
visory councils, which he asked 
Resnik to chair. She did a heck of 
a good job, remarked Jordan.
As a Carnegie Mellon under
graduate, Resnik was an active and 
accomplished student. A graduate 
of the class of 1970, she was a 
member of Alpha Epsilon Phi, a 
Jewish Sorority, and Tau Beta Pi, 
Mortarboard, the Carnegie Tech
nical, and the Panhellenic council.
Janice Friedman, a member of 
the national board of Alpha Epsi
lon Phi, rec.alled Resnik, referring 
to her contributions to the soror
ity. In 1984, Resnik was presented
with Alpha Epsilon Phis National 
Alumnus Award. Resnik was a 
member of the last pledge class of 
AEPhi; the chapter disbanded in 
the mid-70s.
After graduating from CMU, 
Resnik worked for the Missile and 
Surface Radar division of RCA, 
after which she became a biomedi
cal engineer and fellow of the 
National Institutes of Healths 
neurophysiology laboratory in 
Bethesda, Maryland. It was then 
that Resnik acquired her PhD in 
electrical engineering from the 
University of Maryland.
Resnik was selected as a NASA 
astronaut in 1978. After working 
on several aspects of the shuttle 
program, she made her first space 
flight on the maiden voyage of 
Discovery, making her the second 
American woman in orbit.
She logged 144 hours and 57 
minutes in space, orbited the 
Earth 97 times, covered 2.5 mil
lion miles, and helped deploy three 
satellites on that mission. The 
Challenger mission would have 
been her second.
Dr. Jordan recalls the day of the 
Challenger disaster. Having turned 
down an invitation from Judith to 
attend the launch, then-Provost Jor
dan was horrified to hear the fate of 
the Challenger. I canceled the meet
ing [of the Board of Visitors], and 
cried, said Jordan.
BLc9hc hcc g12*T, u9Sc :
MUv tl44 4uIe 4ImerIoi 9C1ea
By AMIT KAR
Tartan Business Manager
Carnegie Mellons H. J. Heinz 
School of Public Policy and 
Management has been awarded 
a $12.1 million grant by the 
National Science Foundation 
to head an inter-disciplinary, 
multi-national consortium to 
study interpersonal violence.
The five-year study is be
lieved to be both the most ex
tensive study of its kind ever 
conducted and the largest single 
social science project ever 
funded by the National Science 
Foundation.
The consortium, involving 39 
experts in fields as diverse as 
psychology, criminology, eco
nomics, geography., and opera
tions research, from 24 institu
tions will collectively be known 
as the National Consortium on 
Violence Research or NCOVR. 
It will bring together research
ers and data from 11 U.S. states 
as well as the United Kingdom, 
Canada, and Sweden.
Alfred Blumstein, interna
tionally renowned criminologist 
and professor of Urban Sys
tems and Operations Research
at the Heinz School has been 
named the director of the con
sortium  he is among at least 
nine other researchers from 
Carnegie Mellon involved in 
the study.
Blumstein said that the study 
was, A very exciting opportu
nity both for developing a solid 
knowledge base but also for 
CMU because we become the 
center of the endeavor. 
Carnegie Mellons proposal 
was chosen from a pool of 14 
groups that had applied to 
the National Science Foun
dation. Citing the Heinz 
Schools commitment to in
ter-disciplinary research as 
one of the reasons for the 
NSFs decision to go with 
CMUs proposal, Blumstein 
went on to add; I think they 
viewed us as having a very 
strong team.
The proposed study repre
sents a landmark in research 
both because of the scientific 
and inter-disciplinary ap
proach being taken to the 
rather intangible subject of vio
lence, and the manner in which 
it brings together experts and 
BLc9hc hcc .*681C1, u9Sc 3
ySls sdurlsI4 4uIi s4uIo9 NuIm wI44
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
County officials are asking the Materi
als Science and Engineering Department 
to change its storage methods after a gas 
leak forced Wean Hall to be evacuated 
last Monday, January 22.
Tony Gaglierd of the Allegheny County 
Health Department (ACHD) said that a 
cylinder of hydrogen sulfide that sat un
used for over a year was to blame for the 
incident.
The tank was stored in a fourth-floor 
lab of the Center for Iron and Steelmaking Research at MSE.
[Hydrogen sulfide] is inherently corro
sive, said Gaglierd. [The cylinder] sat 
for a year, maybe more, and nature took 
its course.
He speculated that the gas may have 
eaten away at one of the tanks seals, 
causing a leak.
Weve recommended that they start 
rotating these chemicals, Gaglierd said. 
Dont leave old stuff lying around. Get a 
system in place. Date your stuff. If you 
dont use it, get it in storage or get it out of 
there.
The leak was discovered at 8:30 am 
Monday, when a CMU staffer noticed a 
rotten-egg odor in the lab and called 
Campus Police. Pittsburgh fire, police, 
EMS, and hazardous materials crews 
were notified, and the building was evacu
ated at approximately 9 am.
The evacuation was complicated by a 
malfunctioning fire-alarm system, and 
security and EMS personnel were forced 
to go floor-by-floor to make sure the build
ing was cleared.
Some occupants, however, seemed 
unaware of what was going on, and 
were still wandering out of the build
ing at 10 am.
Ed Guida of CMU Environmental 
Health and Safety (EH&S) said that the 
alarm was undergoing maintenance, and 
wouldnt stay armed. It would sound for 
a short time and then shut off. That 
complicated our ability to use the firealarm system, he said.
There was little or no danger to Weans 
occupants from Mondays incident. In 
severe cases, hydrogen sulfide can para
lyze the respiratory system. Several CMU 
employees who were exposed to the gas 
were sent to local hospitals as a precau
tionary measure, but no injuries were 
reported.
Guida said that the odor threshold 
for the gas is so low  about .008 parts 
per million molecules of air  and the 
smell so foul, that most people detect its 
presence immediately and limit their 
exposure.
Federal guidelines consider exposure of
10 ppm over an eight-hour period to be 
within safe levels. Levels of about 300 
ppm are considered dangerous, and levels 
near 1,000 ppm can be fatal.
Gaglierd said that concentrations in 
the lab were at one ppm, and that the 
gas wasnt detected in any other parts 
of Wean Hall.
The building was closed until noon, when 
all floors but the fourth were reopened. By 
1 pm, the entire building was reopened.
The exact cause and location of the leak 
is unknown at this time, because the de
fective cylinder was returned to a chemi
cal supplier in Cleveland, Ohio.
Gaglierd praised the quick action of 
EH&S and Campus Police in controlling 
the situation.
I give the University credit  they did 
this right, he said.
p1o9C clcu eIrI6u9 
ni90 4In9 lm Uu44m
-evtc; Xd0ctRrss5y9ts9e X9e9SpeS 1vpsrt 
f9sctmLrSScv Irrlh vto ris re sbc s9ILch 9s XcLLre *ehspsisc 8pIt9toW
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Acting Tartan Co-News Editor
It was definetly not a quiet week for 
Mellon Institute Library. A burst wa
ter pipe flooded the Mellon Institue 
Library on Sunday, January 21.
According to Lynn Labun, the head 
librarian at Mellon Institute Library, 
Professor David Hackney discovered 
water leaking into the main reading 
area in the library on Sunday and 
called Labun at home at 10:30 am.
She immediately contacted the li
brary disaster response team. Hack
ney covered the book stacks under 
the dripping ceiling with a sheet of 
plastic until the team arrived.
The damage done was incredible. 
The flood soaked 272 bound jour
nals and books. However, the dam
age was not limited to the library. 
The water pipe burst on the sev
enth floor of Mellon Institute and 
damaged equipment in a biology 
BLc9hc hcc '66T2, u9Sc 3
Drill Deck renovations improve activity space
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Renovations have been made recently to 
the Drill Deck, the student facility located 
in the basement level of the Student Cen
ter. The Drill Deck, which once primarily 
housed the ROTC activities, has been 
turned into a semi-professional rehearsal 
space for music and voice majors.
These changes were implemented due 
to the hassle of bussing the students down
town to rental facilities at the Civic Light 
Opera, located in the Cultural District in 
downtown Pittsburgh. One advantage to 
the renovations is that now we can keep 
the academic activities for the students 
on campus, said Marcia Gerwig, building 
manager of the Student Center.
The renovations included: adding a 
wooden floor over the existing cement 
n9hre 2pcScevrtw5y9ts9e Bbrsr 1vpsrt e, placing mirrors and dance bars along 
Ballroom 09edpeS ph rec hsivces 9dspapso sb9s ;pLL Icecwps wtrR sbc tcdces the walls, and doing some repairs to the 
pRutracRcesh sr sbc 0tpLL 0cdl pe sbc 2sivces CcesctW heating system. These renovations were
funded by the resource allocation board of 
the University. It was granted due to the 
immediate need of the Music Department 
for rehearsal space.
Marilyn Thomas, head of the Music De
partment, was very pleased with the reno
vations. Her concerns arose mainly for the 
other students that use the Drill Deck. I 
was worried that students wouldnt be able 
to be relocated. However, Im told that all of 
the activities have been found suitable space 
elsewhere for their activities.
The Drill Deck, however, can still be 
reserved for activities. Its just a matter of 
working around the Music Departments 
schedule. Groups that have successfully 
done this are: Scotch and Soda, who will be 
performing in the Drill Deck in February, 
the Ballroom Dance Club, which holds les
sons every Thursday in the Drill Deck, the 
Society for Creative Anachronism (SCA), 
the Kiltie Band, and, of course, ROTC.
Other groups were relocated into smaller 
areas on campus. A room in Building D
was supposed to serve this purpose, but the 
main users of this room would have been too 
large to fit adequately, said Gerwig. For 
just one semester, we didnt feel that the 
funds would be adequately spent in refur
bishing that room.
However, once the new University Cen
ter opens, it will house the student activi
ties. The Drill Deck will be used for ROTC 
and the Music Department classes.
Right now, the Drill Deck is being used 
Monday through Wednesday nights, 
Thursday afternoons and evenings, and 
Friday nights for rehearsals for the Music 
Departments performances of Menottis 
The Telephone and Amelia Goes to the 
Ball.
These two one-act operas are sched
uled to be performed on February 9,10, 
16, and 17 at Carlow College.
Kevin Lamb, director of planning ser
vices was unavailable to comment on ex
actly how much money was spent refur
bishing the Drill Deck.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996
Page C...
vml2uo9lCa conu9 lmC 
sIrc19 oIsl9r l991u9
BOULDER, Colo. Jan. 25 (AP)A 
University of Colorado review panel 
that studied alleged incidents of rac
ism and homophobia on campus has 
issued a list of 31 recommendations to 
improve student relations, including 
a fighting words policy, according to 
a report issued Thursday.
The panel was commissioned in No
vember 1995 by Jean Kim, vice chan
cellor of student affairs, after six stu
dents said they had been harassed in 
residence halls because of their race, 
ethnicity or sexual orientation.
Kim said the panel was convened to 
investigate several incidents where 
students of color seem to have been 
mistreated or involved in altercations 
and to develoD a set of findings and 
recommendations for action.
The vice chancellor said her office 
has already begun to review the 
panels recommendations and would 
study the possibility of implementing 
some of the panels tips with campus 
officials.
Lets face it. Nobody has arrived 
at utopia. We continue to struggle 
with it [bigotry], Kim said. The 
strength of an institution should 
not be measured by crises that sur
round these issues, but how we re
spond to them.
UC Boulder is being honest and up 
front by saying, yes we have these 
problems and we are dealing with 
them.
Panel members, including faculty, 
. taff, and student representatives, 
conducted 25 interviews between Nov. 
22,1995, and Dec. 6,1995.
They spoke to students, residence 
hall staff, administrators and cam
pus police.
The panel said it found clear evi
dence that racist and homophobic acts, 
both intentional and unintentional, 
are present in the Boulder campus 
residence halls and that targeted stu
dents felt victimized.
This is accompanied by stress, fear, 
and intimidation regardless of the role 
played by (other) individuals, according to the report.
Among otner things, the panel rec
ommended that UC officials study the 
possibility of adopting a fighting 
words policy to define the kind of 
language that would be considered 
hostile by many students.
The panel also called for the cre
ation of a Task Force Against Preju
dice, which would pick up where the 
now-defunct Committee Against 
Prej udice left off when it was disbanded 
in 1992.
Of the cases reported by students, 
several involved cultural misunder
standings and disputes between eth
nic minority students and their white 
roommates. Other cases involved de
struction of personal property, verbal 
attacks, and ethnic and racial slurs.
In one case, two black students said 
they were unfairly treated by Will
iams Village residence advisors and 
campus police after someone com
plained their music was too loud.
The two students were arrested on 
unreported charges.
In another case, a student who iden
tified himself only as nonwhite said 
someone had removed and burned 
news articles on racism that he had 
taped to his dorm room door. The case 
was reported as arson that was pos
sibly racially motivated, UC spokes
woman Pauline Hale said.
Another case involved an Hispanic 
male student who said his roommate 
played loud music, was messy, was 
inconsiderate of his feelings regard
ing overnight guests and had a gen
eral lack of cultural sensitivity.
The panel also found that gay and 
lesbian students reported 31 cases of 
harassment, including 22 in residence 
halls.
Other recommendations made by 
the panel include: the development 
and implementation of an ongoing 
conflict mediation program for resi
dence halls, the immediate develop
ment of orientation materials on di
versity for students, resident advi
sors and campus police.
Dusk Till Dawn leads box office
LOS ANGELES Jan. 23 (AP)  The 
vampire thriller From Dusk Till Dawn 
debuted at No. 1 at the box office over the 
weekend, earning $10.2 million.
The film, starring Harvey Keitel, 
Quentin Tarantino and ERs George 
Clooney, edged out the Richard Dreyfus 
cramaM/'. Hollands Opus, which earned 
$9.2 million in its first weekend in wide 
release.
The Bruce Willis sci-fi thriller 12 Mon
keys was third with $6.2 million, fol
lowed by Eye for an Eye ($5.4 million) 
and Grumpier Old Men ($5.1 million).
Dead Man Walking, starring Sean 
Penn and Susan Sarandon, made an 
impressive showing in its fourth week. 
Shown on just 180 screens, it averaged 
$9,571 per screen, highest of the week
end Top 20. Overall, it finished 17th, 
earning $1.7 million.
Toy Story remains the top money
maker of the current field, with $174.2 
million since its release nine weeks ago.
-ihst9Lp9 hcclh 
;c9ureh I9e
CANBERRA, Australia Jan. 22 (AP) 
 Australia Tuesday called for a global 
compact to rid the world of nuclear weap
ons.
Australian Foreign Minister Gareth 
Evans told an international panel of 
scientists, former military strategists 
and retired statesmen that current dis
armament moves are too slow and do not 
go far enough.
What is needed now is really a new 
global nuclear compact, Evans told an 
inaugural three-day meeting of Canberra 
Commission on the Elimination of 
Nuclear Weapons.
Australia has recruited the 17-mem
ber commission to devise a practical 
plan for abolishing nuclear weapons 
without endangering global stability.
The group has until August to produce 
its findings which will be presented to 
the U.N. General Assembly.
Evans admitted a nuclear weaponsfree world might take years to achieve, 
but he stressed the urgent need to step 
up arms control and reduction.
This commissions mandate is not to 
draw a blueprint for utopia, Evans said. 
It is to address what is unquestionably 
a clear and present danger.
Evans said stopping nuclear prolif
eration is primarily the responsibility of 
the five nuclear declared states  the 
United States, Russia, Britain, France 
and China.
The world still needs, if we are to 
achieve the complete elimination of 
nuclear weapons within a reasonable 
time frame, a practical program of 
nuclear reductions to which all five 
nuclear weapon states are committed, 
Evans said.
The United States and Russia must 
negotiate greater arms reduction trea
ties, he said.
Countries must be persuaded to stop 
producing fissile material for weapons 
and the watchdog powers of Interna
tional Atomic Energy Agency should be 
strengthened.
Nuclear states must make firm assur
ances that they wont use their arsenals.
International nuclear-free zones must 
be expanded and nuclear weapons test
ing must cease under a Comprehensive 
Test Ban Treaty, expected to be final
ized later this year, he said.
The commissions first meeting is tak
ing place amid a series of nuclear tests 
by France in the South Pacific. Defying 
international opinion, France has deto
nated six blasts beneath Mururoa and 
Fangataufa Atolls since September.
Paris promises the sixth will be its 
last forever.
France and China are the only two 
nuclear powers not part of an interna
tional moratorium on testing.
Evans said their test programs are 
regarded by some countries, with nuclear 
ambitions, as proof of hypocritical
double standards by the nuclear weap
ons states.
The Canberra Commission includes 
former United States defense secretary 
Robert McNamara and Gen. George Lee 
Butler, a former commander-in-chief of 
the U.S. Strategic Air Command.
Another member is Prof. Joseph 
Rotblat, a British scientist who became 
an ardent anti-nuclear campaigner af
ter he helped build atomic bombs in 
World War II. He was awarded the 1995 
Nobel Peace Prize.
Other panelists come from Russia, 
China, France, Australia, Brazil, Sri 
Lanka, Sweden, Japan, Egypt and Ma
laysia.
0rLc 9vRpsh sr 
krtIchN utrStchh
WATERLOO, Iowa Jan. 25 (AP)  
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, hit 
with negative ads from his rivals and 
questions about his ability to compete
leased a return for 1994. Forbes has 
declined to release any of his tax records.
When Forbes has a fund-raiser, he 
takes his wife to dinner and writes a 
check, Dole cracked before an audience 
of several hundred Iowans at a town hall 
meeting in a civic center.
Dole also spoke Thursday at the South; 
Dakota School of Mines and Technology! 
in Rapid City, where he repeatedly chair 
lenged Forbes to release his tax return? 
and accused him of trying to buy the1 
election. Every now and then, some-' 
body comes along with a big wad of, 
money. And we have a candidate with a 
big wad of money, he said.
During a question-and-answer period] 
in Iowa, one woman in the crowd, LindaJansen of Cedar Falls, told Dole he had* 
been lambasted on the airwaves by 
Forbes. She later said she thought it was* 
hurting Doles chances.
Forbes has accused Dole of voting for: 
tax increases, of voting to raise his conr, 
gressional pension and of conspiring with.
________ ..  Gramm to engineer a 1990 budget agreewith President Clinton, complained ment that included a large tax increase:
Thursday that the GOP race seemed at 
times like running for the mud-wrestling championship.
Dole said a negative advertising cam
paign by his rivals, and particularly by 
Forbes, seemed to be cutting into his 
lead  as shown by recent polls.
In fact, polls have shown Forbes clos
ing the gap with Dole in many states, 
including Iowa, with its GOP caucuses 
on February 12.
When Forbes has a fundraiser, 
he takes his wife to dinner 
and writes a check.
 Bob Dole
An Iowa Project poll of 300 likely cau
cus goers released Thursday found Dole 
supported by 26 percent and Forbes by 
18 percent. All other candidates were in 
single digits in the January 22 survey, 
which had a 6 percentage point margin 
of error.
Dole said he was not too concerned. 
Our own tracking polls show were go
ing down a bit  were hanging in there 
at about 31 or 32 percent. I think youre 
going to see a decline in the Forbes 
(numbers), he said.
He blamed Forbes surge in the polls 
on his negative ads.
It gives him an advantage, I think, in 
the short term. I think in the long term, 
at least I hope in the long term, it back
fires, Dole told reporters.
I think people in Iowa ... know me 
pretty favorably here. I dont think 
theyre going to believe all this stuff. But 
some do.
Dole reiterated his demand that both 
Forbes and Texas Senator Phil Gramm 
make public their past income tax 
records. He said Gramm has only reMillions of dollars of negative adver
tising  its terrible. I might not even* 
vote for myself, Dole joked.
I think theres a limit, he said. He' 
said he was tired of the hammering, 
hammering, hammering from Forbes' 
and other GOP rivals. Were not run
ning for the mud-wrestling champion
ship.
But he also struck out at Forbes pro
posal for a 17 percent flat tax, calling it
_______________ an untested idea that
could damage the 
economy by swelling 
the deficit.
Forbes, campaigning 
in Cedar Rapids, 
his ads dealt with real 
issues, and were not 
personal attacks on 
Dole. He suggested 
some of his GOP rivals had made such 
attacks  particularly on the issue of 
age. Dole is 72.
Its no secret what Alexander and 
others have been saying about Bob Dole 
... the age issue. It was irrelevant to 
Ronald Reagan. It should be irrelevant 
in the case of Senator Dole, Forbes said.
Gramm, at a campaign stop in Iowa 
City, continued the assault  saying 
that Dole was stuck in the locker room 
without a game plan and has no chance 
to beat Clinton if he wins the GOP nomi
nation.
Gramm also said Dole did not do a 
good job in his response to Clintons 
State of the Union address Tuesday 
night.
What is happening is that people who 
already question whether or not Bob Dole 
can beat Bill Clinton now are increasingly 
convinced he cant, Gramm said.
Dole said he doesnt regret any of his 
speech responding for the Republicans 
to Clinton. Some have criticized it for 
being strident and partisan while the 
Presidents address was conciliatory.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayXrhsLo dLrivo 9ev
Itphl ;psb 9 3P
uctdces db9edc rw
her;W MpSb pe sbcJDkThiuuct :PhW
Tuesday| \
B9tsLo dLrivo ;psb 
RrtepeS wLittpchW MpSb 
pe sbc Lr;ct :PhW
Wednesday
XrtepeS wLittpchW 
B9tsLo hieeo pe sbc 
9wscterreW MpSb pe 
sbc /PhW
Thursday
XpO rw wtccjpeS t9pe 
9ev her;W MpSb 
9triev /PW
Carnegie Almanac
ktrR 9spre9L fc9sbct 2ctapdc IiLLcspeh 9ev rsbct hritdch
50 YEARS AGO, January 26, 
1946: The Carnegie Tartan re
ported that Alumnus William H. 
Councill, E 33, broke the non
stop transcontinental speed 
record. He piloted a jet from Long 
Beach, California to LaGuardia 
Field on Long Island, New York 
at an average velocity of585 miles 
per hour. The record-breaking 
journey took four hours, 13 min
utes, and 25 seconds.
25 YEARS AGO, January 31, 
1971: Alumnus Edgar D. 
Mitchell of Artesia, Maryland 
carried a C-MU flag to the moon 
with him as an Apollo 14 astro
naut. Mitchell, a 1952 Indus
trial Management graduate, 
piloted a lunar module through 
the Fra Mauro highlands re
gion of the moon.
The mission lasted nine days, 
during which Mitchell and as
tronaut Alan Shepard manned 
the lunar module for a 33-andone-half hour visit, andtwomoonwalks.
The C-MU flag, similar to the 
one that waves on the flagpole 
above the cut, was returned to 
Camegie-Mellon for display.
10 YEARS AGO, January 23, 
1986: The CMU Faculty Senate 
voted to allow the inscription in 
the rotunda of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall to remain perma
nently.
The inscription reads: To make 
and inspire the home; to lessen 
suffering and increase happiness; 
to aid mankind in its upward 
struggles; to ennoble and adorn 
lifes work, however humble; 
these are the womans high pre
rogatives.
It is a quotation from W. Lucien 
Scaife, and is considered to be 
offensive and chauvinistic by 
many today.
The motion that sanctified the 
inscription was championed by
Tom Kerr, Professor of Law and 
Industrial Administration, 
Emeritus, who suggested that 
a committee be established ... 
to word a plaque about the in
scription.
At the present time in our 
country, at whatever level, the 
statistics are irrefutable that 
women are paid about sixty per
cent of what men are paid, Kerr 
said, explaining why he felt that 
the inscription should be re
moved.
We are discussing an expres
sion about discrimination that is 
not yet over in this country.
After a structural renovation 
of the rotunda during 1993, the 
inscription still remains as it did
when Margaret Morrison Car; 
negie Hall was built in 1906.
FIVE YEARS AGO, January 
25, 1991, The Womens Center 
located in the Margaret Morrison 
Plaza, celebrated its first birth; 
day as a resource to the women of 
Carnegie Mellon.
Members, students, and staff 
celebrated the event with 4 
gathering at the center, which 
to Keren Kurti, sbcemMA22 
sophomore, was a support sys: 
tem for women who lived and 
studied in a "... very male cam 
pus.
Compiled by 
KENNETH J. Tg-1X1gTARTAN
6dsrIct 3, GUD .rLiRc DD, iRIct : C9tecHpcYXcLLre epacthpso BpsshIitSb, BceehoLa9ep9 G3/G:
ybc y9ts9e dcLcIt9sch psh UPsb 9eepacth9to sbph oc9tW MctcNh sbc u9uctNh GUD M

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 19963
gu9mli rIeu lrcIsC IC MUv
n9hre 2pcScevrtw5y9ts9e Bbrsr 1vpsrt 
ybc gchepl RcRrtp9L, Lrd9scv rishpvc M9RcthdbL9S, 
;9h vcdrt9scv wrt sbc 9eepacth9to rw sbc Challenger 
4cOuLrhpreW
g12*T, wtrR u9Sc G 
He was not only Resniks close friend and men
tor, but he also advised and encouraged her to 
apply for the astronaut program and wrote her 
recommendation for it.
According to Dr. Jordan, he and Resnik shared a
special relationship. She was extremely bright, 
said Jordan, but a lot of people are bright. Few are 
bright and a leader.
Anne Kleinman, of Brookville NY, was Resniks 
CMU roommate and sorority sister. She, too re
called the day of the Challenger disaster vividly. I 
was in absolute shock. Within hours, everyone 
found me, said Kleinman, referring to Resniks 
friends from CMU.
Later in the spring of1986, the friends gathered 
to have their own little wake in a room of the Zeta 
Sigma house.
Kleinman described Resnik as a wonderful, 
dedicated person. However, according to 
Kleinman, she was also very tough.
Resnik would not let any sexism or discrimi
nation against women stand in the way of what 
she wanted, including being named to the astro
naut program.
Both Dr. Jordan and Janice Freidman re
marked on how extremely well-rounded Resnik 
was; both recalled how Resnik was not only an 
accomplished engineering student, but a stu
dent of literature, culture, and the arts as well.
She was a whole person, said Jordan. Kleinman 
said Whatever she [Resnik] did, she didnt do it 
lightly  she threw herself into it... 100 percent. 
Various organizations across campus will be 
coordinating events to commemorate Resnik  a 
person who continues to live in the hearts of the 
people whose lives she touched.
She was a very attractive person, said Dr. 
Jordan, I dont mean necessarily on the outside 
she was a beautiful human being.
She had a real love of life, said Kleinman. Its 
a shame that someone that talented and that 
bright had to go so early. But she went exactly as
I think she would have wanted to. Reaching for 
the sky.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks Carnegie Almanac, it was stated that the University Center was going to open 
in August 1997. It was intended to read that it would open in August 1996, in time for use by the 
class of 1997.
In Jon Orris column, Problem ofCFCs overblown, it read, ...they will succeed in destroying 
so. It was meant to read, ...they will succeed in destroying society as we know it.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, please contact Tartan 
Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. Kraemer at 268-2111.
little italy
Vollu pie. coMpquiy
Cpfeza au' natural1,s)
:Ef wpwsb r@SHiS r<za~ f rvmhL9rv u9W
me90ee,I <fi me90esmm
upjj9, u9hs9, 
I9rSpxG2, d9Ljreh 
3strXIrLp, h9L9vh 
? s^rtcW
veGetciRiaM a 
cciRMTve.Roua 
C/MW
Cmmmmmmmmmm1h ~YxaaW
*6y02 uL9pe 5updl iu J 
___ hu9dp9p ____^
cW9s ps e9bcWuW
k^cWcW a hcWdl8c.22 ucW8pacWgo 
4TOcWus a L L
CoMpe.titoR2 
CoupoH2'
Lb9sh tpSbs, 
;c R9sdb 9eoxx 
9tspwpdp9LLo Lr; 
\ utpdch rwwctcv5
I Io sbc
capL drturt9scx 
Sp9esh ;c recy 
v9o bruc 
nr IcdrRcW
Disclaimer: the word reckless is intended to mean wreck  less 
As in: Impeccably safe & courtious drivers wreck less.
Volu me90,
This box needs a picture, and we 
need someone to take it!
My doodles just don't cut it  so 
come be a Tartan photo guru. 
Well teach you everything you 
need to know.
email "zig@andrew" or swing on 
by the student center, room 104 
on Thursdays at 5 pm for groovy 
photo staff meetings.
Some Students Remained Abroad...Others Joined Them....
NAMEMAJORYEARLOCATION
G9to -sdbchre-tdbpscdsitc2gXhpv9, X9Ls9
2ecb9L -apdb9L-tdbpscdsitc2g89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
09;e '9L9jhX215*Xng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
GtcSrto '9Lsih-tsng9Sro9, n9u9e
2b9tre '9eh9LXcdbW1ngc;d9hsLc, -ihst9Lp9
k9vo '9tR9v9-tdbpscdsitcngkLrtcedc, *s9Lo
Xpdb9cL '9odit9XcdbW1 51BBng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
-tvce 'cevpct-tsnggrRc, *s9Lo
f9ttce 'ctto*X 5 1dreng2oveco, -ihst9Lp9
2ih9e 'b9eS-tdbpscdsitc2g89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
C9sbctpec 'peSb9RCpaW151BBng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
29t9b 'LcdlhRpsbBbohpdhng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
09apv 'rss-tdbpscdsitcng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
yctch9 'tcvcbrcws-tdbpscdsitcng8revre, 1eSL9ev
X9ssbc; 'tr;epeS-ts51y'ng2oveco, -ihst9Lp9
nrhcub Xpdb9cL C9L9Itchc-tdbpscdsitc2g89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
8pe Cbce*XngC9RItpvSc, 1eSL9ev
09epcL CbcreSCbcRW1ngm -9dbce, GctR9eo
.pedces Cbc;-tdbpscdsitc2g89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
n9dlhre Cbi*2ng.pcee9, -ihstp9
X9ewtcpv Cbi9Mphsrto 5 BrLpdo A *Xng.9LLcev9t, GctR9eo
y9so9e9 09epcLh*X 5 1dreng8revre, 1eSL9ev
XcLpev9 0t9lcCbcRW151BBng-9dbce, GctR9eo
'tcss 1LLprsC2ng-pOmcemBtracedc, kt9edc
XcS9e kcsspS_0chpSengkLrtcedc, *s9Lo
Critseco kprtckpec -tshnggrRc, *s9Lo
1Lhlc g9ecc ktccm'ctes-tsngkLrtcedc, *s9Lo
T9R9L G9tS1drerRpdh2gBt9Sic, Cjcdb gcuiILpd
-e9s G9srtXcdbW1 5 'prLrSongM9pw9, *ht9cL
Bcepe9b GrLvR9e0chpSengkLrtcedc, *s9Lo
8pj GrrvceriSbktcedb2gXcsj, kt9edc
09e GtcceMphsrto A BrLpdo26Xrescttco, XcOpdr
1tpe GtccecW-tsng8revre, 1eSL9ev
nrtv9e MrulpehXcdbW1ngZitpdb, 2;psjctL9ev
Mhpemyji Mi9eS-uuLpcv X9sb 5 *X2g8revre, 1eSL9ev
0riSL9h fpLLp9R Mivhre*Xng't9vwrtv, 1eSL9ev
Yi *e9Rrsr-tdbpscdsitc2gCruceb9Sce, 0ceR9tl
'tcs LrLpCtc9spac ftpspeSngkLrtcedc, *s9Lo
*L9ep9 T9uL9e-ts 5 -esbtrurLrSongGL9hSr;, 2drsL9ev
8cspdp9 T9sbrL ^4u*XCngy9tsi, 1hsrep9
0cfpss 89spRct *. ,>X9sb I C2ng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
-vtp9e 8c'iwwc-tdbpscdsitcng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
.pap9e 8cc-tdbpscdsitc2g89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
T9tce 8pcIr;psj-tsnggrRc, *s9Lo
09epcL 8phs1C1ng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
29t9b 8r;c-tsngGL9hSr;, 2drsL9ev
niLpc X9dih-tsng2oveco, -ihst9Lp9
*9e Xitubo2rdp9L MphsrtongCrLct9pec, rtsbcte *tcL9ev
*trtr 6tpwc1C1ng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
Xpdb9cL yrvv B9pidlXcdbW1ngc;d9hsLc, -ihst9Lp9
B9iLcsp9 B9e'M-: Ctrhh CiLsit9L2gGtcerILc A B9tph, kt9edc
B9iL nW B9u9tcLLp0t9R9ngXrhdr;, gihhp9
C9Rctre BrucX9sb 5 C22689ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
B9ILr Btccdc-tdbpscdsitcng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
Crtco g9vcR9clcth-tsng-pOmcemBtracedc, kt9edc
-tre g9LhsreXcdbW1ng89ih9eec, 2;psjctL9ev
grIcts g9urh9C2 5 *Xng-pOmcemBtracedc, kt9edc
29t9 grhc gihhrBhodbrLrSo2689ed9hsct, 1eSL9ev
YOU CAN BE PART OF IT, TOO!! 
Come by the Office of International Education (219 Warner Hall) 
or call 8-4969 for an appointment with the study abroad advisor. For additional 
information, check our b-board academic.abroad.official.

---------------------------------------------------

I N MM O R I A M
JUDITH RESNIK
P.P b Pxf
ybc C9tecSpc XcLLre CrRRiepso ;pLL drRRcRrt9sc 
sbc iespRcLo vc9sb rw nivpsb gchepl, 11 NDP, re 
Xrev9o, n9ei9to /UsbW
8::P m 3::P M9evrish, gpIIreh, kLr;cth 
4::P m D::P CrRRcRrt9spac 0peect 
Highlander Cafe, Pipers Cafe 
D::Pm8::P C9evLcLpSbs .pSpL
Gesling Stadium
This is a Paid Advertisement. Photos courtesy www.dartmouth.edu I-wsk/challenger.
.,.. ..

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 19965
pi90 31omI49 eIrI6ue
'66T2, wtrR u9Sc G
lab on the sixth floor and computers in the theoreti
cal chemistry lab.
Many of the damaged books were opened and set 
'out to air out on the tables in the library. Some will 
Jje placed back on the shelves after they dry, but 
others will have to be rebound. A few are damaged 
Ibeyond repair.
The flood was caused by a water pipe that froze in 
seventh floor lab that had been vacated by the 
Carnegie Mellon Research Institute several months 
i. Sharon McCarl, the MCS assistant dean of
financial affairs had walked through the lab to 
evaluate the space earlier in the week. The win
dow was not open earlierinthe week, saidMcCarl.
However, the window may have been unlocked. 
According to Ignatios Alexander, head of adminis
trative services for the university libraries, high 
winds have been known to open windows in Mellon 
Institute. The high winds and cold temperatures 
may have opened the window in the vacated CMRI 
lab and frozen the water pipe that burst. When the 
temperature warmed up, the water started leak
ing down through the labs into the libraiy.
wD5 wulmA Esd4 ousul2u9 OR U 6oImC C 9C1ea 2l4umsu
.*681C1, wtrR u9Sc G
'their research from a variety of 
'institutions over a number of 
years. We anticipate that its go
ing to provide a model for the way 
societal problems can be studied 
on a scale that just hasnt been 
done, said Blumstein.
Jonathan Caulkins, assistant 
professor of operations research 
at the Heinz School cited the broad 
approach to the study as one of its 
most important aspects. Good 
things tend to happen when people 
with different perspectives share 
those perspectives, said Caulkins.
Carnegie Mellon, as the lead
ing institution within the 
;NCOVR, will be responsible for 
maintaining the collective data 
center for all the researchers in
volved as well as developing a 
telecommunications network 
which will allow the members of 
:the consortium to stay in con
stant contact throughout the 
study. Caulkins felt that this ar
rangement represents, A model 
for the way research will be con
ducted in the next century.
Another innovative aspect of 
the NCOVRs study will be the 
emphasis on longitudinal re
search. Both Caulkins and 
Blumstein felt that research into 
the field of violence has been, 
until now, too cross-sectional and 
fragmentary. Blumstein said the 
proposed study, is much more of 
a synthesizing of research and is 
not just one of a number of paral
lel projects.
Although the NSFs decision to 
fund the Carnegie Mellon-led 
team was made in December of
1995, the study will not begin in 
earnest until this coming June, 
when the first of several planned 
Summer Conferences will see 
all the researchers involved com
ing together. Caulkins said that 
the summer conferences 
were,... an important part of 
the whole endeavor, allowing 
the many experts in the group 
to interact both formally and 
informally. I do believe in that 
synergy, Caulkins added.
In addition to establishing a 
newsletter providing periodic
updates of its research, the con
sortium hopes to start making 
concrete recommendations on 
how to handle increasing vio
lence to legislators and policy
makers within two to three 
years.
Equally important is the de
sire to establish, through cut
ting-edge research, an exten
sive and credible knowledge 
base on a field where our cur
rent understanding, according 
to Blumstein, relies too heavily 
on myth and rhetoric.
Crime and Incident Report
1/21 IMPERSONATING AN 
OFFICER, 3:58 pm. Officers 
were dispatched to Margaret 
Morrison St. after a security 
guard observed a student driving 
around with a flashing red light 
on his hood.
When the officers found the stu
dent and his vehicle, it was 
parked. However, the light was 
in plain view on the dashboard. 
The student was issued a citation 
for Unauthorized Use of an Emer
gency Light.
1/22 UNDERAGE DRINK
ING, 2:37 am. Two officers were 
patrolling the fraternity area 
when they observed a student 
standing outside of a fraternity 
trying to hide a can of beer with 
his feet.
The student borrowed a hat 
from a friend, and placed the 
hat over the beer.
He picked up the hat and hid
den beer, and started towards 
the fraternity house when the 
officers stopped him. They is
sued the Duquesne student an 
underage drinking citation.
1/22 MEDICAL, 9:09 pm. Sev
eral officers were dispatched to a 
fraternity to assist campus and 
city police officers in restraining
a student. The officers felt that 
the students behavior may have 
been due to ingestion of illegal 
substances, so they searched his 
room, where they found drug 
paraphernalia. After testing posi
tive for marijuana, the evidence 
was secured in the evidence 
locker.
1/23 DRUG USE & POSSES
SION, 12:09 am. Five officers 
responded to Mudge after some
one reported that people were 
using marijuana. The officers 
found the room by smell, and en
tered it.
They explained to the students 
the reason for their visit, and 
searched the area. Two of the 
students were clean, and had no 
contraband. The third student 
had one bag of marijuana.
The fourth student had a va
riety of drug paraphernalia. The 
fifth student, the resident of 
the room, had a closet converted 
into a growing area. All of the 
evidence was confiscated and 
secured in the evidence locker.
1/24, DRUG USAGE, 12:36 
am. A student in More wood Gar
dens called campus police and 
complained that someone down 
the hall was smoking mari
juana; four officers responded.
They found three CMU stu
dents, five bags containing vari
ous amounts of marijuana, drug 
paraphernalia, and several 
bottles of liquor. Citations were 
issued and the items were trans
ported to the evidence locker.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report un
der the following guidelines:
Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter who types the re
port.
All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, 
and fraternity names are omit
ted from the printed report. Eth
nic descriptions and other per
sonal details are given only in 
the context of a complete de
scription.
Not every incident that oc
curs on campus appears in the 
report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
FEMALES 18-25 
Earn $15
Participate in a blood 
pressure study. No blood 
will be taken & nothing is 
painful!
Call 383-2202 
University of Pittsburgh
If you want to get away from it all this'winter, Amtrak" is the way to go. Especially when you can save 15% off awesome getaways with the 
Student Advantage Card. Call 1-800-96-AMTRAK to get your card. And, take your pick of cool places, hot spots and hundreds of other 
colorful vacation destinations designed to take your mind off the winter blues. Pick your destination now and call your travel 
agent or Amtrak for reservations at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Winter getaway seats are limited so call today 
while the gettings good.
All prices are one wav, based on round-trip coach (are with 15% Student Advantage Card discount. Fares are based on availability and are subject to change without notice. Seats are limited. 
Additional charge for First Class or other accommodations. Other restrictions may apply.-Xyg-T
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
1wwpdpcedo, G, /, 9ev : 'cvtrrR 
kitephbcv -u9tsRcesh 
89ievto k9dpLpspch 
f9LL sr f9LL C9tucspeS 
2cditpso 'ipLvpeS
H&P Real Estate 
8/mG3GU
D9R m 3uR  Xrev9o sbti 29sitv9o
INTENSIVE 
MCAT 
PREPARATION
The Princeton Review is the nation's leader
in test preparation. Our MCAT course
features:
? Small classes 8-15 students grouped by 
shared strengths and weaknesses
?Over 90 hours of instruction and 
diagnostic testing
?Over 1400 pages of up-to-date MCAT 
materials
?Highly trained instructors who are experts 
at preparing you for the MCAT
?An average score improvement of 6.5 
points (according to a recent study by 
Roper Starch Worldwide)
?Caduceus Science Review, the finest 
MCAT review software available
Classes for the April 20 MCAT 
start soon!
Call now for more info!
THE
PRINCETON
REVIEW
241-4221
jAffnwcf/on Review i* not affiliated with Princeton Untvenity or the Educatioal Tilting Servici

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
C9tecSpc XcLLre epacthpso/U n9ei9to GUU
YoImC dI9 c9lCl2u 
oucuos199lm9 IC MUv
ptinijiimiiiinimmimi'" 
AWT XoU
Crit ics
'M?
hoo wep agL9iR 
C\\Bc< E-nftlL  f
Carnegie Mellon is often the re
cipient of grants from the national 
government and large firms. Last 
week, the National Science Foundation endowed the Heinz school 
with a 12.1 million dollar grant to 
study the causes and effects of 
violence in modern society. A 
grant like this can be seen as an 
event that has little day-to-day 
effect on the general student body. 
However, a research project of 
this sort can be a source of change 
within in the University, and as 
importantly, it can change the 
image the University presents to 
the outside world.
Research is responsible for much 
of the academic reputation of a 
university like Carnegie Mellon. 
The majority of the grants that 
CMU receives from the govern
ment are for the sciences, explor
ing the fields of computer science, 
robotics, physics and just about 
every other technical field that 
you can think of. The publication 
of the basic research that results 
from these grants creates most of 
the reputation that CMU receives 
from the outside world.
Generally speaking, the areas 
that CMU receives the most grant 
money, and consequently con
ducts the most research in, are 
the sciences. This leads to the 
present situation  other, less 
technical colleges within CMU are 
overlooked when describing the 
positive aspects, of the Univer
sity.
For these reasons, the Heinz
Schools endowment is not only 
the beginning of a landmark 
study for social science in gen
eral, but it is also a landmark 
study for Carnegie Mellon and 
its students  it is an extraordi
nary opportunity for CMU to 
augment its credibility as a 
leader in the humanities on an 
international scale.
The unique aspects of the study 
make it even more important to 
the University. The project is 
being lead by CMU, and consists 
of researchers from 14 universi
ties, including researchers at 
universities in the United King
dom, Canada, and Sweden. The 
organization established by the 
grant, the National Consortium 
on Violence, will be conducting 
what is expected to be the largest 
study of violence ever conducted, 
and is the largest social science 
program ever funded by the NSF.
The Universitys humanities 
departments have been strong 
and important contributors to 
society for years; we do not in
tend to discredit the numerous 
research projects that these de
partments have produced or the 
contributions these studies have 
made to society.
However, we do feel that the 
recent establishment of CMU as 
the focal point of the National 
Consortium on Violence is a sig
nificant leap for the Universitys 
image as a first-rate University 
for research in all facets of soci
ety.
LooIClmI4lCa cou2Il49 lm n1e6uC nICC4u
James Stepanek
ECuu4uo9( cuo,orImsu 
9d14e lm9clou MUv
For a typically downtrodden 
place, CMU, like all of Pittsburgh, 
has come together over the last 
two weeks with a feverish spirit 
and common bond.
Granted, not everyone was on 
the same side, but at least every
one had something to talk about: 
the Superbowl.
Too emotional an issue to be 
confined to the bboards, conver
sation about the Superbowl actu
ally brought CMU students and 
faculty face-to-face with heated 
debates over who would win, just 
how annoying Deion is, and most 
importantly, how cool the Here 
We Go song is.
Back in the 70s, with the eco
nomic effect of the steel mills de
parting Pittsburgh, the Steelers 
heading to the Superbowl year 
after year was something to give 
the city a bit of a spark. This year 
it did the same.
Sure, there are a few Dallas 
fans around campus, but even 
they could participate in the fer
vor by shouting at all of Pitts
burgh in defense of their team. 
Steelers fans could bond together 
as buses flashed Go Steelers! 
along their destination boards. 
Drivers honked their horns and 
yelled Go Steelers! out their 
windows. Students sang the Here 
We Go song on the way to classes. 
Even people uninterested in foot
ball and the Superbowl could at 
least look forward to the hour 
long, special episode of Friends.
Finally, the excitement culmi
nated with the actual game. Look
ing grim at first, the Steelers ap
peared to have a solid chance in 
the beginning of the fourth quar
ter; but then, all of CMU watched 
the Pittsburgh Steelers meet 
eventual defeat. What does this 
mean for the campus?
CMU has been alive with en
ergy over the past two weeks, 
alive with black and gold inspir
ing posters. But the result of the 
game is no reason for the energy 
to die down.
The Steelers went into the 
Superbowl as severe underdogs, 
played their hearts out the whole 
game, and left the field with a 
performance that is to be com
mended.
They may have lost the game, 
but the effort they put into it was 
not just praiseworthy, but exem
plary.
Carnegie Mellon students can 
take a lesson from the Steelers. 
Yes, the game is over, but that is 
no reason for students to go back 
to the hum-drum, constant whin
ing, low-enthusiasm mentality 
that plagues our University.
Like the Steelers, we must 
learn to hold our heads high and 
go into the game with 110 per
cent effort. Our citys team played 
a game that, if nothing else, at 
least kept the Superbowl inter
esting to watch for the first time 
in years.
We all owe the Steelers a great 
round of applause and thanks 
for the effort they put forth. And 
if CMU still needs something to 
get excited about, lets at least 
focus on the positive aspects of 
our lives.
Whats the biggest battle in DC these 
days? No, not the Crips versus the Bloods. 
Its the budget battle between Congress 
and the White House. Whats the issue? 
The future of the government in terms of 
size, scope, and solvency.
The Republicans, in their Contract 
with America, promised to balance the 
budget in seven years and to vote on the 
Balanced Budget Amendment. Well, 
they did vote on the amendment, and 
just barely fell short on the vote. In fact, 
if a number of Democrats who had for
merly been advocates ofthe amendment 
hadnt crumbled under pressure from 
President Clinton, the amending pro
cess would have begun. Mind you, this is 
the Clinton that raised taxes to solve the 
deficit problem, yet when faced with a 
real measure promoting fiscal responsi
bility fought tooth and nail against it. 
The current impasse is over spending 
priorities. The Republicans want to slow 
the rate of increase of programs so that 
we can eventually balance the budget. 
They suggest a three percent rate of 
increase for the government versus a 
five percent increase which is the path 
the Democrats currently have us on. 
The Republicans arent even being as 
harsh as I would advocate. We should 
just cut down to balanced books right 
now. Do you live in debt? If so, are you of 
the opinion that its a good idea? I doubt 
many of you, as individuals, think that 
living in the red is a good thing, so why 
would anyone have trouble with the no
tion of the government living within its 
means as well?
Of course, Im not stating it in the 
same fashion as Clinton. Hes saying 
that the Republicans are cutting Medi
care and Medicaid. Simply enough, hes 
lying. The Republicans are slowing the 
rate of increase. Currently Medicare, for 
example, is slated to increase at about
11 percent a year. Mind you, this is 
nowhere near the rate of inflation and 
also exceeds the current rate of increase
of medical costs. The Republicans want 
to pare that down to a 7.5 percent a year 
increase. What do we hear from Clinton 
and the media? The Republicans are 
balancing the budget on the backs of the 
poor and elderly, The Republicans are 
casting the old and poor out of the boat, 
and even more such tripe. The lies are 
simply so outrageous that Im almost 
shocked that people buy them. Then 
again, to paraphrase the master of pro
paganda, Geobbels: If you repeat a lie 
long enough and loudly enough, people 
will believe it.
The Republicans are simply doing what 
has to be done, even if at times it is 
unpopular. They are actually trying to 
save Medicare by offering meaningful 
reforms. As much as Id like to see the 
program gone (another example of the 
government doing things not within its 
purview), I dont want to see it go broke. 
That would lead to even more problems 
than the program already causes. 
Clinton, of course, doesnt care about the 
long-term viability of the system. He 
proposes no reforms and merely uses the 
issue to scare seniors into opposing the 
reform plans of the GOP.
There are some programs that the 
Republicans are actually cutting, but 
then to anyone who believes that the 
government doesnt waste a great deal 
of money, I have a nice ski lodge to sell 
you in Florida. There is a huge amount 
of waste in government, and the Repub
licans, to their discredit, arent paring it 
back enough. Granted, they are still 
nothing like the pork-barrel kings that 
the Democrats were in their 40-year 
tenure, but still, I would be much hap
pier with more use ofthe trimmingknife. 
How about the Tennessee Valley Au
thority? It was a program by which our 
tax dollars subsidize electricity in Ten
nessee. How about the ethanol subsi
dies? How about farm subsidies that 
mostly go to food conglomerates? There 
are scores of examples of such waste 
that should be gotten rid of. Of course, 
you can be quite sure Clinton has lob
bied for every one.
The Republicans have actually been 
pretty reasonable compared to Clinton 
and his cronies. Theyve made some 
pretty simple conditions, and are will
ing to bargain. Its just that its hard to 
bargain when the other side cant even 
hold onto its own position. Clinton has 
repeatedly made statements that agree 
with what the Republicans are asking 
for, only to turn around and say the 
opposite at the next opportunity. This 
kind of prevarication is the cheapest 
form of con artistry thats ever been on 
the national scene. How anyone could 
trust a man whose next response is com
pletely unpredictable is completely be
yond me. The funny thing about the 
controversy is that you can plot Clintons 
temperament by the latest polls. He is 
adamant when he sees polls that give 
him a high approval rating and then 
loses his spine when the polls give him a 
drubbing. This man wouldnt know what 
a principle was if it walked up and bit 
him on the behind. The way things look 
right now, there isnt going to be any 
agreement. Clinton is going to continue 
to ride the polls and try to use every
thing he can to his advantage  the 
welfare of the nation be damned.
Of course this has led to a rather 
fascinating response by the Republicans. 
Theyre going to avoid the path of the 
omnibus budgets and simply fund pro
grams in small batches or one by one. 
This way they can guarantee fundingfor 
programs that are agreed by everyone to 
be necessary, and let others wither on 
the vine. This way they can keep the 
parts of the government that are neces
sary (or at least perceived to be) run
ning. This will not only allow the muchneeded paring down of government size, 
but also allow progress tp be made on 
balancing the budget. If they simply 
dont have to fund every nonsense pro
gram, there will be huge savings. An
other part of how this works to their: 
advantage is that in the continuing fund
ing resolutions, which dont count as a 
real budget, departments are only funded j 
at 75 percent levels. I doubt anyone will 
even notice the difference. This will re
ally work against Clinton who, by play
ing the polls instead of making a deal, 
will end up gaining nothing. I think this 
will be quite evident by November.
James Stepanek is a PhD candidate 
He welcomes any replies to his column, p
Wut 4It noIme9 ou,orue solrlmI49
3 jw1
Derek Robinson
An act of injusare committed by family, friends, and acquaintances. Yet a 
ticeis sweepingthe single case spurs restricting laws to help against the rare 
nation that many occurance of an attack by a stranger, 
people are unable However, the meat of the issue lies within the larger 
to recognize for picture. Megans Law is a legal admission that the justice 
what it really is. I system is flawed.
A criminal goes to jail for two reasons: to protect society 
from that person, and so the criminal can repay their debt 
towards society. Megans Law brands a criminal for life 
with the fact that they are a sex-offender. If such a person
am not talking about theft, murder, or other crimes asoeiated 
with them.
I am talking about the justice system that supposedly 
deals with these crimes. What I am referring to (and what 
the rest of the media has seemingly forgotten) is a piece of was released from jail, they are supposed to have repayed 
legislation entitled Megans Law. their debt and been reformed.
It was named after Megan Kanka, a seven-year-old who By institutionalizing a constant reminder of a persons
[Megan's Law] adds to the pro
liferation of faulty legislation, and 
will eventually hurt that which it 
wishes to protect: the sanctity of 
the people. 
was murdered by a paroled sex-offender. Megans Law 
first was passed in New Jersey, where the incident took 
place. It is designed to inform communities if a convicted 
sex-offender moves into their neighborhood.
Knowledge of these _________________________________
sexual predators is sup
posed to prevent further 
offenses. However, not 
only is Megans Law in
herently flawed, it side
steps the heart of the is
sue.
I believe there is noth
ing wrong with alerting a 
communitys authorities 
of an ex-offender within 
their jurisdiction. However, releasing identification and 
the address of said person for public consumption is a poor 
idea.
Ethical issues aside, there are three main problems with 
this. First, there have been cases of vigilantism where 
enraged neighbors attack the ex-offender, usully without 
any provocation.
Second, this information can only help so much. Upon 
being informed of an ex-offender entering the community, 
a parent could lock up their children and never let them 
outside. Otherwise, a child could just as likely fall prey to 
an offender. Unless a parent watches their child 24-7, they 
will be no more able to protect their child against the exoffender than other passing strangers.
Third, statistics show that 95 percent of sex abuse cases
crime, people are admitting the offenders punishment was 
ineffective.
In short, Megans Law is state-sponsored discrimina
tion. An offender who has served his time in jail will not find
__________L__ V-___ ' much difference between
the outside and the inside 
of a prison cell.
Many people find no prob
lem with this, and fail to 
see the dangers inherent 
with this law. Megans 
Law addresses the symp
toms of a problem, and side
steps the larger issue.
The law adds to the pro
liferation of faulty legisla
tion, and will eventually hurt that which it wishes to 
protect: the sanctity of the people.
If Megans Law is accepted on a national scale, other 
laws similar to it might as well. And before anyone realizes 
it, the only thing holding the justice system from imminent 
collapse will be these supplemental band-aids.
The intentionality of Megans Law is well-placed. How
ever, it simply does not fix the problem. Unless more 
reforms are made with regards to the justice system, 
Megans Law' and others will no longer matter, because 
every rapist and murderer will be roaming the anarchystricken country.
Derek Robinson is an undecided freshman. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 19967
UumIsu , 9C1clelCa oIrcImC lm reuom HruolsI
Are you aware of the bumper 
sticker that pseudo-hippie, 
happy, beat up Saab owners have: 
Mean People Suck? Well, Id 
like to offer to the makers of 
bumper stickers a new one thatll 
sell like hot cakes (and we all 
know how well them hot cakes 
sell). My marketing brilliance 
told me to make a bumper sticker 
that read, Stupid People Suck 
It would work wonders. It 
Wouldnt offend anyone. Smart 
people would agree with the sim
plistic statement of humor based 
on the inherent truth, and stupid 
people, basically, wouldnt get it.
You might be saying something 
to yourself right now, in your 
heads. If you were actually say
ing what you were thinking out 
loud then people would think you 
were kind of loopy and then where 
v/ould that get you? No place. 
People wouldnt listen to what 
you say. Oh well, there goes crazy 
Pete talking out loud to himself 
again. Hes just so crazy. I 
wouldnt listen to anything he 
thought, because hes just so 
damn crazy. So, I imagine some 
of you are saying, internally, 
Hey, where does this ignorant, 
pompous creep get off passing 
judgment on other human beDouglas Howe
ings? Does he think hes God or 
something?
I promise Im not judging any
one. I certainly am not claiming 
any higher intelligence. Most of 
the time I just occupy space. But 
this isnt my opinion. Im using a 
proven scientific method. My 
roommate did tell me once that if 
anyone asked me if I was or 
thought I was God, that I should 
always answer, Yes!
Well, what scientific method 
are you using? some very scien
tific CMU dude might very well 
ask. And Id say, Im not gonna 
tell you, and stick out my tongue. 
But Ill let you guys in on the 
secret process, cause Im such a 
pushover. It isnt based on phys
ics or chemistry, but on a higher 
law. Let me explain. About a week 
ago someone asked me, in a mo
ment of fine rumination, if I had 
to lose all but one of my senses, 
which one would it be? Which I 
found to be a very intelligent 
variation on the old standard. I 
thought for awhile, but couldnt 
come up with an answer. I said to 
my friend, I dont know. Which 
one would you keep? And his 
answer was so moving and so 
dead on. My common sense. And 
thats the scientific theory Im 
basing my statement on.
When I talk about stupid 
people, I am in no way referring 
to the mentally ill or challenged. 
They arent stupid. Theyre men
tally challenged. Stupid people
are ones who look just like every
one else, seemingly act like ev
eryone else, and conduct them
selves in a way that appears to 
hold a semblance of normalcy. 
But dont be fooled. They are a 
different breed all together. Most 
stupid people are found in cars. 
When youre on the road, its as if 
your senses are heightened, and 
you have a special stupid-person radar. Stupid drivers stick 
out like sore thumbs. Dont con
fuse stupid drivers with elderly 
drivers. When youre behind an 
old driver you say, God! What 
the hell are they still driving for? 
They shouldnt be on the road. 
But you understand and forgive 
them immediately because you 
know that youre going to be one 
of them soon enough. That is, if 
you survive driving with stupid 
people. So how do stupid people 
get drivers licenses? Simple. Ev
eryone at the DMV is a distant 
relative. The only people who get 
screwed over at the DMV are 
common sense people or sixteenyear-old girls attempting to ob
tain a permit. You just walk in, 
show them your Stupid Person 
membership card, and you auto
matically get one. Plain and 
simple. Then, there they are, on 
the highway, right there with you, 
making your life a living hell. 
Thats why there are so many 
shootings onhighways nowadays. 
But the people who are fighting 
are the common sense people.
They are so pissed off at the stu
pid people that they blow a fuse 
and go nuts and shoot the com
mon sense guy in the next car, 
who also seems to be having a 
breakdown of a similar kind.
Another place to immediately 
detect a stupid person is in a 
grocery store line. They are the 
ones, always in front of you, who, 
for some reason known only to 
God, take a year and a half to go 
through the checkout.
They dont have coupons, they 
arent writing a check, they just 
take forever. There isnt a force 
that can stop it either. It just 
happens. If you attempt to thwart 
the plan, itll just get worse, and 
theyll say they forgot an item 
and walk back to the farthest 
part of the store to get it.
Again, we shouldnt confuse the 
stupid with the elderly.
The elderly use coupons, write 
checks for over the total so they 
can go and buy a lottery ticket, 
and have the cashier run back to 
check if the peanuts were really 
59 cents.
You might be pissed at them, 
but you forgive, because soon 
enough, youll be eating Jell-0 
out of a Tupperware container, 
complaining that the kids never 
call.
Other locations that they fre
quent are a bit more difficult to 
find, but here are a few examples. 
Theyll be in any restaurant you 
go into. Waiters are generally not
stupid. Theyre either crazy ac
tors or, well, more crazy actors, 
but there is always that one dude 
who is the bosss nephew, and 
hes the stupid one who ate paste 
in nursery school. Also, no mat
ter what, hes going to be your 
waiter. Its one of Gods little 
tricks, or lessons, on tolerance. 
The more you are bothered by 
stupid people, the more they will 
be put in your path.
Another place to find the stu
pid is at a football stadium. Its so 
thick with them that youd think 
they gathered there waiting for 
the mother ship to bring them 
home. Its tough to say whos more 
stupid: the players or the fans. 
Personally, I choose the fans, for 
obvious reasons  if I choose the 
players, I become just as stupid 
as they are by paying them money 
to do what they do.
Then again, maybe it was a 
grand plan of common sense 
people to create such a stir over 
football that stupid would be at
tracted to it like birds are at
tracted to... uh... stuff that birds 
are attracted to. Hey Bill, if we 
make football really popular, then 
all the stupid people will go to the 
games, and we can drive in peace 
for one day this week.
Thus we have the expression 
Sunday Drive.
Douglas Howe is a senior drama 
major. He likes to dress up and 
run around.
)elCue 4lCuoIC1ou 9C1mC9 lmCu44usC1I4 eu2u4crumC
Jason Ermer
ob Angina 
Dole, one of this 
years presiden
tial candidates, 
is very fond of 
being pretty 
hard on sex and 
violence. While 
movies like 
True Lies, are 
high up on Senator Doles Family View
ing list, films like Showgirls, Natural 
Born Killers, and Money Train (I guess 
Woodys a Democrat), are considered 
damaging to the American psyche. I could 
now tangentialize and spew out an acri
monious article about why the good Sena
tor is wrong about the mass media being 
a wicked, wicked thing. The Senator in
fers, in his statements, that the media 
induces children to run out and take their 
clothes off for their prepubescent friends 
 like Darla doing a pole dance in the 
Little Rascals clubhouse (ever wonder 
why they called him Spanky?)  and 
convinces God-fearing adults to go out 
and light a Photo Hut on fire because they 
saw somebody else do it on T.V. Bo and 
Luke had the doors on the General Lee 
welded shut... lets all go and do that!
I am forced to concede one point to 
Senator Dole: movies today are screwing 
up the minds of our children and young 
adults (a category into which some of you 
reading this article fall). Its not happen
ing, however, in the way that Senator 
Dole thinks it is. Let me supply you with
a bit of an example.
The next sure-to-be-smash-hit-animated-musical to be cranked out of Walt 
Disney Studios later this year will be The 
Hunchback of Notre Dame. Since when is 
this a childrens story? I dont know if any 
of you have seen the trailers in the the
aters, but I dont think that an almost 
more cute than grotesque Quasimodo 
swinging through the rafters in the bell 
tower of a Cathedral singing is quite 
what Victor Hugo had in mind. I dont 
know that for sure, but then again I didnt 
ask him for his opinion on the subject. I 
dont think Disney did either. Riddle me 
this: how are they going to end this story? 
Is the lovably deformed protagonist go
ing to swan dive from the roof of the 
Cathedral to save his beloved Esmeralda 
from being hanged? They both die in the 
end. Is Walt Disney going to pervert classic literature to meet its own ends just as 
they pervert history? By the way, Demi 
Moore plays the voice of Esmeralda.
Speaking of Demi Moore, she was in
volved in another film that distorted the 
literature of somebody else who is in no 
position to complain about it. Apparently 
when Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote The 
Scarlet Letter, he didnt quite get it right. 
Apparently, Moore et al. could have done 
it much better had they been there at the 
time, or maybe they were just trying to 
bring the story up to speed with the 
society of today. They succeeded only in 
ruining an outstanding piece of litera
ture for the fifty to sixty Americans who 
saw the film. My suggestion: Dont make 
a movie from a book unless youve read 
the book.
This really concerns me. I could care 
less if the next film of Stephen Kings 
next book totally deviates from the plot in
the text. Hell, I would encourage film
makers to deliberately change the ter
rible endings King usually writes. But the 
thing is, its not literature. I know this is 
opening up a whole different issue for 
discussion, and you may very well see it in 
a future column, but although you may be 
Kings number one fan, sorry, its not 
literature. Nate Hawthorne, Hugo, 
Shakespeare; thats literature. The ideas 
expressed by the writings of these au
thors are universal; as equally applicable 
today as they were when they were writ
ten. They should not be tampered with in 
the name of popular culture.
Elementary school kids go off to the 
movies with Mom and Dad and see 
Pocahontas, a film which does to history 
what is so often done to literature. The 
kids leave the theater with the story of 
Pocahontas and John Smith, both of them 
beautiful people of about the same age, 
one an American Indian super-model, the 
other a dashing young blonde English
man, and think that it was the truth. 
Although more accurate, it wouldnt have 
been as much fun if she were twelve and 
he was an old, fat, bearded guy. The kids 
may not consciously think of it as a docu
mentary, but the story is presented in 
that way, and who are they to say it 
happened any differently.
Over the years, history teachers will be 
competing against the skewed history les
sons these children have been getting. 
High school and college students go to see 
movies like JFK and Nixon: movies that 
sound like they should be historically true 
to form, but were actually made by a man 
hoping, I think, that in the future people 
will look back and see history through the 
unfocused eyes of Oliver Stone.
I would be willing to bet that as time
continues the number of English and lit
erature teachers who will hear, But thats 
not what happened in the movie, will be
come freakishly high. But no, we cant ex
pect the film industry to stop making poor 
adaptations of books. However, a back
ground in history and literature, plus a less 
lemming-like sense of whats cool and whats 
correct, is all youll need to escape the 
slippery tiger pit that is Pop Cultures im
provement on the classics. Watching mov
ies like this doesnt lead people to become 
violent and lascivious, it leads them to 
become stupid. Seeing the movie is not 
reading the book. Its not even reading the 
Cliffs Notes. Reading the Cliffs Notes, as a 
former English teacher said, Is like mak
ing love to a skeleton: you lose some of the 
richness of the experience. But if thats 
true, then watching the movie is like mas
turbating: you kind of get the idea, but to 
get the real thing you have to go to the 
source.
Jason Ermer is a junior MCS major.
X9to XrtS9e5 y9ts9e -ts 2s9ww
With the recent concern 
over good food, folks, and 
fun, we wanted to do an im
promptu poll on gastronomic 
Pinions. We asked: What 
do you think of dining ser
vices, especially the new 
dining carts?
Heather Amet 
Senior 
LCS
Im really happy that they 
put the new coffee stand in B aker 
Hall, but it needs an espresso 
maker.
Patrick Rieley
Freshman
CS
I havent gone to the new 
ones yet. I do go to the ones in 
Wean. Its good, but sometimes 
the bread is a little stale.
Kevin Pierce
Sophomore
Engineering
I havent eaten at any of 
them.
npR 2eovct509tltrrR X9e9Sct
Danielle Proctor
Senior
IM
Im glad theres good variety 
now.
THE TARTAN
C9RcSLc XcLLrexh 2sivces c;hu9uct 
2pedc GUP
1vWmpemCbpcwWW Tceecsb nW Tt9cRct 
X9e9SpeS 1vW -evtc; Xd0ctRrss
'ihpechh X9e9SctWWWWWWWWW-Rps T9t
-dspeSCrmc;h 1vW X9ssbc; 2rLpstr
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW'cdlo -WCr;hct
krtiR 1vpsrtWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWnrbe 'pSSh
2urtsh 1vpsrtWWWWWWWWWWWB9iL 'rrsbc
kc9sitch Crm1vpsrthWWgo9e gbr9vh
WWWWWWWWWWWWW2b9tRpL9 .cel9s9hiII9e
0pacthpreh 1vpsrtWWWWWWWWWW1e9 Tb9e
-dspeS C9Lcev9t 1vWWWWWWWWWWMc9sbct
-LcO9evct
0rhhpct0hSeW 1vhW'trdlcss Mrtec
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWnceepwct ZLchctL
0rhhpct 8psW 1vhW WW Tcape Xccb9e
-ts 1vpsrtWWWWWWWWWWWG9Itpce 2oRreh
Bbrsr 1vpsrtWWWWWn9hre 2pcScevrtw
Btrvidspre XStWMLpj9Icsb ciR9e 
-vactsphpeS X9e9Sct Cbpes9e 2b9b
2ohscRh X9e9SctWWWWWWWWWWWWWWGmBpeS 8p
-dspeS Cruo XStWWW fpesct X9hre 
-hhsW 0pacthpreh 1vW W W n9o XprLL9 
09tltrrR X9e9SctWWWW npR 2eovct
BcthreecL Xut  1tpd 29LjR9e
-hhsW BtrvidspreWWWWWWWWWWnceepwct 8p
CrestpIispeS 1vpsrth 
kt9edpec GcRuctLc, 2b9eere 
GpIeco, 89itce Mcpej, T9sbo 8pi
2ceprt 2s9ww 
GpL -Lsctrapsj, n9hre -evt9dlp, 
X9ss '9LL, 09ttce Cbp9uucss9
2s9ww;tpscth 
-RIct 'cecjt9, Yrhcw 'pteIrpR, 
Cbtph C9eere, 2scac Cb9teriIp, 
C9tco CLcaceSct, ytpdL9 09aph, 2bpa 
0c;9e, cpL 0reecLo, n9hre 1tRct, 
09e GrLv;9hhct, -ei@ Gius9, yrR 
M9tuct, n9hre McpeLcpe, -v9R 
TLpa9eh, 09apv Trt9e, fL9vLRpt 
89Icplrahlo, -LcO 8c;pe, -utpL CW 
Xr9sc, -eScL9 XrLLro, 0pjjo 
Xitubo, 2ij9eec B9vvrdl, 2ivbLt 
gcvvo, gpdl gplrhlp, 09e 
grhceIctS, gpdl 2pRRreh, n9Rch 
2scu9ecl, nchhpd9 2stcLpsj, n9hre 
yrSoct, 'pLL .9evctR9tl, 09;e 
f9LLb9ihce, -evtc; f9eS, 2ih9e 
f9shre, 't9vLco ZpRRctR9e
-ts
X9tl 1SScts, T9ttp BLrslpe, 09Rre 
freS
CrRpdh
pdl C9hdp9sr ntW, MptrRp 
M9hcS9;9, 09ac fbpsc, 09epcL 
Y9iSct, Xplc Ycb
Bbrsr
n9trhL9a 0cL9ucvt9@9, nrhb ktcc
R9e, Gihs9ar 2S9ejctL9, X9tp9 
.9Lcesp, Yijr f9s9e9Ic
09tltrrR 
1Lp9h k9LLre, 2drss Mchh, McLce 
Mi9eS, C9tL9 2ctceo
Cruo
8rtp 'r;ch, gcecc C9tvcLLp, XpRp 
CbceS, *art CL9tlc, X9vb9a 
Gb9es9, 0W gcecc M9pthsre, McL
ce9 XdG9b9S9e, .pdsrt 6tscS9, 
C9sbctpec 2cevctLpeS, XW nW fpL
hre, 1Lpj9Icsb Z9RIcLLp
'ihpechh 
B9stpdp9 0pGpihcuup, 2scubce Mhi
nieprt 2s9ww 
g9biL -SS9t;9L, 0p9e9 '9tsrLrss9, 
-eecR9tpc 0capec, go9e 0rera9e, 
kW CrLs krisj, -Lape G9ape, 
-LcO9evt9 GtievcR9e, -eiliL 
T9urrt, M9e@9o TpR, *9e 8rc;, 8pj 
XrtS9e, 0pjjo Xitubo, 0ctcl 
grIpehre, gre9l 2peSb9L, Xpeb 
yt9e, -v9R .pedces
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring semes
ters, at no cost to members of the University commu
nity. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and 
political cartoons are the opinions of Individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 1996 by 
The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the 
right to withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mel
lon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded In part by your Activities 
Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN tt: 0890- 
3107.
The Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.Ap

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996
wsiua 61o1 cou9umC9 ItIoe9
From the Point
by Jason Andracki
Last week we reached the half
way point in the 95-96 NHL sea
son, so I figured Id make my 
prediction on the end of the year 
awards.
Eastern Conference Final
ists: Pittsburgh Penguins and 
New York Rangers. Both of these 
teams are trying to re
capture their greatness 
from a few years back.
They are each just a 
trade away from once 
again lifting the oldest 
sports trophy in North 
America. Dark Horses:
New Jersey Devils and 
Florida Panthers.
Western Confer
ence Finalists: Colo
rado Avalanche and 
Detroit Red Wings.
Patrick Roy was the fi
nal piece of the 
Avalanches playoff 
puzzle and everyone in 
the Motor City wants 
Steve Yzerman to win 
the Cup before retiring.
Dark Horses: St. Louis 
Blues and Los Angeles Kings.
Stanley Cup: Penguins vs. 
Avalanche.
Winner: Penguins. There is 
only one way Mario Lemieux can 
cap off his remarkable comeback. 
That will be by leading the Pen
guins to another Stanley Cup vic
tory.
Conn Smythe Trophy: Mario 
Lemieux. If the Pens win the Cup 
who else could be the playoff 
MVP?
He can put this one next to his 
other two. Dark Horse: Ron 
Francis.
Track tackles invitational
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
This past week the mens and 
womens indoor track teams trav
eled to Slippery Rock University 
for a 12-school invitational.
Sophomore Peter Hunts per
formance was the brightest spot 
of the meet, according to mens 
coach Gary Meckley.
In the high jump, Hunt cleared 
six feet, six inches. This jump 
tied him for first place in the 
event.
On the womens side, the squad 
provided some good perfor
mances, but they were unable to 
break into the top five of any 
event.
Meckley feels that the teams 
performance was strongly af
fected by just getting back from 
break a few weeks ago and by not 
having much time to train.
Meckley also feels that the team 
is hurt by not having a desig
nated place to train. Without in
door track facilities, the team has 
to search for places to train.
The track team often uses Pitts 
facilities, or run workouts under
neath the bleachers of Gesling 
Stadium.
Womens coach Dario Donatelli 
agreed with this, adding that the 
squad that went to Slippery Rock 
was not a full one.
Both coaches, however, have 
high hopes for the rest of the 
season. Meckley decided at the 
Slippery Rock meet that his team 
looked no better or worse than 
any other.
And Donatelli only considered 
this past meet a warm-up, say
ing that in the next few weeks the 
team will get going, score points 
in meets, and place well.
Both teams will get their 
chances this week in a meet this 
Saturday at Denison University. 
Ten schools, mostly Division III, 
will be competing there.
Hart Trophy: Lemieux. Is 
there any doubt that Mario is the 
leagues most valuable player? 
Easily the most astounding come
back in hockey history, if not in 
the history of any sport. Dark 
Horse: John Vanbiesbrouk.
Art Ross Trophy: Lemieux. 
No one will catch him in the scor
ing race, trust me.
Very Dark Horse: Jaromir Jagr.
Vezina Trophy: John
Vanbiesbrouk. The Beezer has 
deserved this award again (he 
also won it in 1986) for three 
years, and with the Panthers 
success, hell finally get some rec
ognition.
Dark Horse: (tie) Chris Osgood 
and Darren Puppa.
G9Itpce 2oRreh5y9ts9e -ts 1vpsrt
Norris Trophy: Brian Leetch. 
Leetch is having a career season, 
so hes certainly going to win the 
Norris like he did in 92. Dark 
Horse: Roman Hamrlik.
Calder Trophy: Daniel 
Alfredsson. The only bright spot 
in Ottawa this season is 
Alfredsson.
He also earned an All-Star men
tion this year. Dark Horse: Vitali 
Yachmenev.
Jennings Trophy: Ron
Hextall. With solid defensemen 
like Eric Desjardins and Petr 
Svoboda, Hextall will definitely
let in the fewest goals. Dark 
Horse: Chris Osgood.
Selke Trophy: Ron Francis. A 
repeat for Francis (and the first 
since Guy Carbonneau won it in 
88 and 89) and hell still be the 
most underrated superstar in the 
league. Hes a guy to build a team 
around. Dark Horse: Brian 
Skrudland.
Lady Byng Trophy: Wayne 
Gretzky. We have to give the 
Great One some recognition, dont 
we? Dark Horse: Pat LaFontaine.
Pearson Trophy: Lemieux. 
The players will choose this one. 
Since theyve had to face him, 
they especially know hes the best. 
Dark Horse: Mark Messier.
Masterson Trophy: Lemieux 
again. Given to the 
player who exempli
fies perseverance, 
dedication, and 
sportsmanship, 
Lemieux won in 93 
when he came back 
from a potentially ca
reer ending injury 
and he deserves it 
again this year. Dark 
Horse: Mike Gartner.
Adams Trophy: 
Doug MacLean. If 
coaches could get the 
Calder, Floridas 
rookie coach MacLean 
would deserve it.
This season he 
moved the Panthers 
into the elite of the 
NHL rather than just 
another expansion team with a 
cool uniform. Dark Horse: Mike 
Keenan (just kidding) and Marc 
Crawford.
Jason Andracki is a junior Pro
fessional writing major and a 
Pittsburgh native Y as if you 
couldnt have guessed from read
ing these predictions.
Maybe since he took the point 
on powerplay face-offs hes elgible 
for the Norris Trophy ?
At the very least, he is eligible 
for the most all-knowing hockey 
columnist
Ecuue9iICuo9 CoIlm ,o 
srcuClClm90 mIClmI49
Gihs9ar 2S9ejctL95y9ts9e BbrsrSt9ubct 
ybc huccvhl9speS dLiI ph utcu9tpeS wrt e9spre9LhW
2T-y1, wtrR u9Sc G/
skater himself, and looks to win 
his division at Nationals. The 
club skaters follow the same 
workouts that national and 
Olympic skaters follow, as Smith 
has worked with professionals 
and knows their training. 
Soultanian said that their prac
tices now focus more on building 
speed, as this is the racing por
tion of the season. Time trials 
are a large part of the workout, 
as racers look to trim seconds 
from their times.
The club is looking ahead to 
Nationals in March. Soultanian 
said, Everything were doing ... 
all the races are leading up to 
Nationals. Between now and 
then, the club will be participat
ing in several meets in order to
gain experience. There is an up. 
coming competition in Syracuse 
New York, and two meets in CLppW 
cago, Illinois. In a few weeks 
Soultanian will be participating 
in the Pennsylvania State Game; 
as part of a unified Special Olym. 
pic/non-Olympic team through 
the Pittsburgh Speed Skatini 
club.
For now, the club is funded 
through Dean Murphys office. 
They are awaiting Student Senate recognition and funding.
The club is looking to expand 
and is willing to take anyone 
who expresses an interest, 
gardless of skating ability, 
Soultanian said, Speedskating 
is viewed as an elite sport, when 
its really very accessible ... any 
one can do it. And here in Pitts
burgh, we have the facilities to 
do it. Soultanian also said that 
because the sport is not widely 
popular, there are few skaters, 
so its a really easy sport to get 
into and do well in.
yIoCIm ICd4uCu9 ousul2u dmo9
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
Two of Carnegie Mellons top athletes were 
honored for their skills in their respective sports 
over the break. Freshman Keri Mills was ranked 
second in the nation among NCAA Division III 
singles tennis players, while senior Nicole Poisson was named to the All-Midwest Regional Soc
cer Team.
Mills fall season 19-1 singles record was the 
best in the programs history. She won the Rolex 
Division III Northeast Region Singles Champion
ship, making her the top womens singles tennis 
player in the East Region. She then traveled to the 
Rolex Small College Tennis Championships in 
Boca Raton, Florida, where she was awarded her 
ranking. The tennis teams 11-1 record for the fall 
season is another school high.
Poisson received her third-team honors at 
midfielder for her 22 points'on nine goals and four 
assists for the season. This is Poissons second
such award, as she was awarded third-team all 
regional honors for her excellence as a forward 
last season.
Poisson has remained one of the UAAs leading 
offensive players throughout her college career. 
Poisson has grabbed up first-team All-UAA horiors her senior and junior year, as well as secondteam honors her sophomore year. She still holds 
the school record for most points in a game with 
eight points.
Both Mills and Poisson, as well as many other 
Tartan athletes will be honored in the coming 
weeks with halftime ceremonies at the mens and 
womens basketball games.
During the Tartans games against the Univer
sity of Chicago on February 9, footballs Aaron 
Neal, and Mills will be honored. Neal is the win
ner of a Burger King Scholar-Athlete award,
At the half of the Tartans games against Washi 
ington University on Febraury 11, the womens 
cross country team and the schools fall All-UAA 
athletes will be honored.
Cricket teams fight for World Cup
f6g80, wtrR u9Sc GG
with other players and had been 
warned by Aussie bowler Craig 
McDermott for backing up too 
far. The whole tour has been 
marred by sledging from both 
sides and bad umpiring.
In another match, New 
Zealand could only manage 
draws against Test minnows 
Zimbabwe in the two-test seTennis
Boris Becker faced USAs 
Michael Chang in the mens 
singles final of the Australian 
Open on Sunday. Both won their 
semi-finals by straight-sets vic
tories. Chang overcame fellow 
countryman and crowd-pleaser, 
Andre Agassi, winning 6-1, 6-4, 
7-6. Becker made easy work of 
Australias Michael Woodford, 
beating him 6-4, 6-2, 6-0.
Meanwhile in the ladies singles, 
Monica Seles won her first grand 
slam title since returning to the 
tennis scene.
She outclassed Germanys 
Anke Huber, winning 6-4, 6-1. 
Im sure this Grand Slam victory 
is just one of many that lie in 
store for Monica Seles.
Rahul Aggarwal is a junior in 
IM and UK exchange student.
classified
ROUSING
-a9pL9ILc pRRcvp9scLo : IcvtrrR 
9u9tsRces, LpapeS trrR, I9sb, lpsdbce, 
utpa9sc urtdb, L9ievto w9dpLpso 9ev 
hsrt9Sc hu9dc 9a9pL9ILc re utcRphch wrt 
Hipcs, hctprih hsivcesh, $D3P 9 RresbW 
C9LL :4Gm3U: rt D::m:PP/W
JOBS
1OdcLLces cOst9 pedrRc er;W
1eacLruc hsiwwpeSm $PP m $8PP cacto 
;cclW ktcc vcs9pLh: 2-21 sr *escte9
spre9L *edW G:D3 Creco *hL9ev -acW 
'trrlLoe, c; Yrtl GG/:PW
f9escv! *evpapvi9L, hsivces rtS9epj9
spreh sr utrRrsc 2utpeS 'tc9lW 19te 
Rreco 9ev wtcc stpuhW C9LL *esctmC9Ruih 
BtrSt9Rh, 9s (8PP)m:/DmPG: rt bssu:55 
;;;WpdusWdrRW
19te $3PP m $GPPP ;cclLo hsiwwpeS 
ceacLruchW krt vcs9pLh, tihb $GWPP ;psb 
2-21 sr: Gtriu kpac, 3D Gtccestcc 
0tpac, 2ipsc :PD, 0ract, 01 GUUPGW
-L9hl9 1RuLroRcesm2sivcesh ccvcv! 
kphbpeS *evihstoW 19te iu sr $:,PPPm 
$,PPP+ uct RresbW grrR 9ev 'r9tv! 
yt9ehurts9spre! X9Lc rt kcR9LcW r 
cOuctpcedc ecdchh9toW C9LL (/P)UDGm 
:3GP cOsW -3/:GW
1-g $3PP rt Rrtc ;cclLo hsiwwpeS 
ceacLruch 9s brRcW 2cev LreS 2-21 sr 
Criesto 8papeS 2bruucth, 0cusW C//, 
BW6W 'rO GDDU, 0ceb9R 2utpeSh, 8- 
DPD/DW
C62186g2 wrt drmcv W1W B-Ww 
6actepSbs nc;phb kcvct9spre C9Ru : 
brith wtrR YCW Gcect9L, hurtsh, 
;9sctwtres A 9tshW C9LL Gm8PPmUD:m:8W 
6e d9Ruih pesctapc;h 9a9pL9ILcW
CM*121 yy6gW kLices Cbpechc, 
utcwct9ILo C9esrechc wrt sisrtpeSW :m3 
brith 9 ;ccl pe / rt : hchhprehW $GP5 
britW ypRc rw v9o ecSrsp9ILcW krtR9L 
Lchhreh ers tcHiptcvW Xihs Lplc orieS 
dbpLvtceW :Gm:33DW
CbpLvd9tc, By, RrhsLo RrtepeShW Xihs 
b9ac cOuctpcedc ;psb pew9esh, r;e 
st9ehurts9spreW 2H MpLL, 4//mGP34W
SERVICES
Xreco wrt CrLLcSc! Mievtcvh A 
sbrih9evh rw St9esh 9a9pL9ILc sr 9LL 
hsivceshW *RRcvp9sc Hi9Lpwpd9spreW
C9LL Gm8PPm/DPm/D44W
ktcc kpe9edp9L -pv! 6act $ 'pLLpre pe 
uiILpd 9ev utpa9sc hcdsrt St9esh A 
hdbrL9thbpuh ph er; 9a9pL9ILcW -LL hsivcesh 
9tc cLpSpILc tcS9tvLchh rw St9vch, pedrRc, 
rt u9tcesxh pedrRcW 8cs ih bcLuW C9LL 
2sivces kpe9edp9L 2ctapdch: 
WGm8PPm/:m4U3 cOsW k3/:/W
X9sb yisrtm dLc9t cOuL9e9spreh wrt 
$G/WPP 9e brit, 9eo LcacLW C9LL 4:Gm 
DDU3W
8621 f1*GMy k6g 2Bg*G 'g1-T! miu 
sr :P LIhW pe :P v9ohW -LLme9sit9L bctI9L5 
eistpspre9L utrvidsh; vrdsrt tcdrR
Rcevcv! 4/Um38U3W
krtcpSe hsivceshmaphpsrthW 0.mG 
Gtcced9tv BtrSt9R 9a9pL9ILcW Gm8PPmPm 
DGD A (8G8) DD/mDG8W #/P/:G 2s9SS, 
fpeecsl9, CUG:PW
kg11 ym2M*gy + $GPPPW Ctcvps d9tv 
wievt9phcth wrt wt9sctepspch, hrtrtpspch A 
StriuhW -eo d9Ruih rtS9epj9spre d9e 
t9phc iu sr $GPPP Io c9tepeS 9 ;bruupeS 
$3WPP uct .*2- 9uuLpd9spreW C9LL Gm8PPm 
U:/mP3/8 cOsW 3W Qi9Lpwpcv d9LLcth 
tcdcpac wtcc ymhbptsW
TRAVEL
ktcc ytpuh A C9hb! kpev ris br; 
bievtcvh rw hsivcesh 9tc 9Ltc9vo c9tepeS 
wtcc stpuh 9ev Lrsh rw d9hb ;psb -Rctpd9xh 
#G 2utpeS 'tc9l CrRu9eo! 2cLL reLo G3 
stpuh 9ev st9acL wtcc! Cbrrhc C9ede, 
'9b9R9h, X9j9sL9e, rt kLrtpv9! C9LL er;! 
y9lc 9 Itc9l hsivces sp9acL (8PP)mU3m 
'tc9l!_____________________________
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........Sl0.00/wk
21-50 words......$12.00/wk 
51-100 words......Sl5.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or check 
before first run date
On-campus departments and organizations 
may pay by journal transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
E8vyw -HFg) LEHWF
-HWHUH MLy7 p)HMw
FH7y8WH p)HMw
&)7 N)Ey
Ey)HUp8Hy
:HL/p)H:)g Mg))L,
wLy8W w)HF LEHWF
 B1g B1g26 01B10*G 6 012y*-y*6 5 'g1-T 0-y12 5 81GyM 6k 2y-YWbxBBbEvwMwHEu
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
OR SURF OVER TO OUR WEB SITE AT: 
http://www.sunchase.com

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 19969
Live off campus? Sign up for AT&T True Reach Savings " and save 25%no matter who, how, when or where
you call in the U.S. _
Dexters not his usual self.
You suspect the salsa.
So you call Dr. Nlisblatt, your family vet back home.
The call s cheap.
(Too bad about the Consultation fee.)
Spring Break 1996
TRAVEL FREEH 
4n9R9pd9W C9edeW '9b9R9h 
19e9R9 CpsoW 09aLre9W B9vtc 
** Gtc9s Lr;, Lr; utpdch 
** ktcc ytpu re reLo G3 h9Lch
^ Call for a FREE 
x ^  pewrtR9spre
u9dlcs !
s* Sun Splash Tours 
-U 1-800-426-7710
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
pescte9spre9L vchspe9spreh 
0phdriescv vrRchspd w9tch 
-YM A 1it9pL B9hhch
)Scuolumsue0 
,olume4a 9uo2lsu5
4P8 fpesbtru 2sW
(ww 2W Ct9pS pe 69lL9ev)
WpH CuIr9 nICC4u lC 1C ,o to9C
*k6gX2, wtrR u9Sc GG
round of the playoffs after highly 
successful seasons.
The NBAs two greatest alltime franchises hold on to their 
memorable uniforms, but with 
different results.
Dressed in Classic Celtic white 
and green, Boston is 15-26 and 
shows no signs of escaping me
diocrity.
The Laker yellow and purple is 
the talk of the league again. They 
look solid at 2318 and can only 
get better.
Former Laker great Magic 
Johnson has practiced with L.A. 
and is rumored to return on Fri
day against the Bulls.
The Houston Rockets became 
the first team to win a champion
ship and not return with the s ame
uniform. They departed from a 
familiar uniform of white, red, 
and yellow to a uniform of red, 
white, and blue that they some
how made disgusting.
The jersey is dark blue with 
huge ungainly red bars down the 
sides. Added to this are those 
insulting pinstripes, in white.
If there was any fairness in the 
league, Houston would be given a
technical foul at the start of ev
ery game for making the oppos
ing team look at such gaudiness. 
Although they are playing better 
than last year*, currently 28-15, 
its this new debacle in dresscode that will doom them.
The Western Conference teams 
will become inspired to defeat 
them in order to save the Ameri
can people from having to see
1ml,or
such a disgrace on national tele
vision.
Cbtph Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major, who is 
designing brand new uniforms 
for every team in the NBA. Really, 
pea-soup green will be the in 
color next season Y trust him. 
Perhaps some 70s fringe would 
be nice, too.
-vRpephst9spre
*X 0ptcdsrt Y Xplc X9hstrp9eep O8m 
//G4; -hhsW 0ptcdsrtY Xplc Gtjo;pehlp 
,:.683-2938; *X 2cdtcs9to Y XpdbcLLc 
x(.L9ss9 X8-2053; *X CrmBtchpvcesh Y 
soLplc Xrepdr 9ev 2c9e Tc9ec X2-2900; 
S|X frRcexh Btchpvces Y B9sso 'tierW
*Rurts9es 09sch
Xrev9oY '9hlcsI9LL giLch CLpepd 9s 
4::P uR pe sbc hR9LL SoRW
yichv9o Y kpths epSbs rw *X '9hlcs
I9LLW
ybithv9oY 1estpch vic Io 4::P uR 
wrt kLrrt Mrdlco 9ev BperdbLcW
,e Xrev9oY kLrrt Mrdlco giLch CLpepd 
9s 4::P uR pe ybphsLc M9LLW
*X '-2T1y'-88
ybc GUU *X '9hlcsI9LL hc9hre ;pLL 
IcSpe re yichv9o cacepeS, n9ei9to :PW 
-LL sc9Rh 9tc tcRpevcv sr dbcdl sbc *X 
x'iLLcspe 'r9tvh wrt S9Rch, hdbcviLc 
db9eSch, 9ev iuv9schW ybctc 9tc 9 
srs9L rw UG sc9Rh u9tspdpu9speS pe *X 
'9hlcsI9LL sbph hc9hreW ybctc 9tc P 
Rperth sc9Rh, GU pesctRcvp9sc sc9Rh, 
wpac R9@rth sc9Rh, 9ev hcace ;rRcexh 
{c9tehW
, ybc *est9Rit9L 0cu9tsRces ;phbch 
49LL sbc sc9Rh Srrv Lidl *e sbcpt Hichs 
re sbc tr9v sr 2lpIr GoRe9hpiR 9ev 
*est9Rit9L Cb9Ruprehbpu pSbs re 
ybithv9o, X9tdb DW -eo Hichspreh 
hbriLv Ic vptcdscv sr Xplc X9hstrp9eep 
9s O8m//G4 rtO8m/P3:W
k866g M6CT1Y
*X kLrrt Mrdlco cestpch 9tc vic pesr 
sbc *X 6wwpdc re ybithv9o, kcIti9to GW 
@bph oc9txh hc9hre ;pLL pedLivc 9 wc; 
Wdb9eSchW kLrrt Mrdlco cestpch ;pLL eccv 
sr ihc 9 hucdp9L wrtR, Lrd9scv pe sbc *X 
W6wwpdc rt re sbc ImIr9tvW ybph ;pLL Ic sbc 
wpths oc9t sb9s ori d9e dbrrhc cpsbct 9 
dbcdlpeS rt eremdbcdlpeS Rperth 
Lc9SicW ybph hc9hreNh Lc9Sich ;pLL pe
dLivc R9@rth, ;rRceNh, Rperth (dbcdl
peS Lc9Sic, h9Rc 9h utcaprih oc9th) 
<cev 9 Rperth eremdbcdlpeSW BLc9hc ihc 
psbc hucdp9L cesto wrtRh utrapvcv wrt 
kLrrt Mrdlco reLoW -Lhr, re sbc hucdp9L 
pwpmpto wrtR, uLc9hc arsc wrt ;bcsbct 
@@uit sc9R utcwcth 9 uL9hspd uidl rt 9 
WuL9hspd I9LLW BLc9hc pevpd9sc sbph re sbc 
wrtR ;bce ori cesct orit sc9RW
ybctc ;pLL Ic 9 R9ev9srto tiLch Rccs
peS wrt kLrrt Mrdlco re Xrev9o, kcIti
9to 3, 9s 4::P uR pe ybphsLc M9LLW
 *w ori b9ac 9eo Hichspreh, uLc9hc 
d9LL sbc *X 0cu9tsRces 9s O8m//G4 rt 
X8m/P3: rt hsru Io sbc *X 6wwpdc, trrR 
GPG pe sbc GoRW
1y1g*G g62y1g2 2*G 1X-*8
yr cesct orit sc9R Io cR9pL, ori 
Rihs ihc 9e 6wwpdp9L 1esto krtR," ;bpdb 
ph urhscv sr sbc rwwpdp9LW9sbLcspdmvcusm 
ec;h ImIr9tv uctprvpd9LLoW BLc9hc ihc 
sbph wrtR ;bce cesctpeS orit sc9RW 
1R9pL cestpch ;pLL ers Ic 9ddcuscv 9eo 
rsbct ;9oW
: rsc: -LL cR9pL trhscth 9tc vic /4 
Mrith utprt sr sbc 9dsi9L vic v9scW r 
cOdcuspreh ;pLL Ic R9vcW ybc pest9Ri
t9L vcu9tsRces b9h sbc tpSbs sr tcwihc 
9eo trhscth hiIRpsscv 9wsct sbc vc9v
LpecW
Qichspreh d9e Ic vptcdscvsr XpdbcLLc 
9s X8m/P3: rt cR9pL sr RphbW"
6kk*C*-82 11010
x ybc *X 0cu9tsRces ph LrrlpeS wrt 
I9hlcsI9LL 9ev wLrrt brdlco rwwpdp9LhW *w 
ori 9tc pesctchscv pe rwwpdp9speS 9ev 9tc 
LrrlpeS wrt 9 u9opeS d9Ruih @rI, d9LL *X 
0ptcdsrt Xplc X9hstrp9eep 9s O8m//G4 
rt hsru pe sbc *X 6wwpdc, grrR GPG, 
GoRW
2iIRpsscv Io: 
X*CM1881 X-yyLife can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings"1 is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on 
your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem - 
when you spend just $25 a month? No other plan gives you all these different ways to save?*
Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. Thats Your True Choice?'
gcwcth sr LreS vphs9edc d9LLh IpLLcv sr -yAy brRc rt -yAy C9LLpeS C9tv 9ddrieshW 0phdriesh rww -yAy I9hpd t9schW Ccts9pe cOdLihpreh 9uuLo 2iI@cds sr fpLpeS 9a9pL9IpLpso 6wwct 9a9pL9ILc sr tchpvcesp9L -yCy dihsrRcsh: XpepRiR hucevpeS tcHiptcRces ph uct tchpvcesp9L LpecW "CrRu9tcv sr R9@rt LreS vphs9edc d9ttpcthW
AT&T
Yrit ytic Cbrpdc

---------------------------------------------------

Yes trd ary,Jns
Freshmen
Heidi Adick 
Inigo Amoribieta 
Jennifer Andersen 
Arthur Ardolino* 
Maureen Bartek 
lylichael Broom 
Craig Brozinsky j 
Michael Carchia 1 
Elona Charney 
Daniel Commins /
Becky Cowser* f 
Lisa Don*
Jpshua Donner ) 
Elizabeth Dragov^ich* 
Catherine Ewell* i 
Christian Farrell*
llyson Fenton* '
Jason Funke*
Brandon Gruner (
Mark Haney*
Donald Hoag*
David Howes*
Ashley Hunter 
Stacey Jenkins*
Melissa Kaplan" 
Thaniyaporn Keereepart 
Lisa Kleinman 
Diana Lalor 
Man Lo 
Kelly Lynema 
Brian Magerko 
Erica Magliai'o*
Maxwell Maspn 
Angela Miale 
Matthew Morris 
Jesse Nice 
James Nickman* 
Benjamin Northrop* 
Kirstin Purdy*
Nancy Ramsey*
Shana Reade*
Roland Reagan 
Betty Shea*
Alexander Skroupa* 
Emily Slaby*
Michael Subelsky 
Amanda Tishkoff*
Yakov Tyutyunikov*
Sophomores
Gregory Alexander*
HUMANITIES
------------ and-------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES
n Carnegie Mellon 
Christine Allard 
Daniel Arp*
Diana Bartolotta* 
Ashley Bone* 
Michelle Broge*
Carly Cenedella*, 
Patrick Conlin* 
James Csaszar 
Frederick Foutz 
Katherine Hart* 
James Hawken 
Kavin Hetrakul 
Raymond Hiltz 
Christy Hipchen 
Jenny Hwang 
Mark Johnson 
Allison King*
Ingrid Lai 
Brian Lam 
Alexander Lewin* 
Veronica Lombrozo 
Christina Lopez 
Pollyn Lu 
Alexis Lubensky* 
Andrew March 
Gregory Marcks* 
Aiko Muro 
Jamie Ogline 
Ricardo Parrish 
Jennifer Ragan* 
Perrin Rowland 
Katherine Sanchez 
Carrie Schutrick 
Ting So*
Michael Sperger 
Daniel Stover*
David Tolliver 
Christian Viola
Juniors
Scott Altschuler 
Jordan Anderson 
Michael Ayoob* 
Vittorio Bernardino* 
Jeremiah Blatz 
Daniel Bonnett* 
Kathleen Braun 
David Brotherton 
Manfreid Chua 
Derek Davison* 
Anne Donovan 
Beth Franklin*
u288 mkkh is2vof xrf,
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences congratulate our students 
for their outstanding academic performances during the Fall 1995 semester.
Alisa Gabbe* 
Shannon Gibney 
Jenny Good*
Conal Ho*
Melanie Jones 
Susan Klein 
Jennifer Lee*
Frank Ligons*
David Liu*
Anna Lorch 
Valerie Lucas 
Ana Lucero*
Terry Lumish*
Adam Malter*
Regis Paul Marcelin* 
Rebecca McCadney* 
Michele Mellott 
Matthew Messner 
Jason Miller 
Suzanna Myers 
Martin Pangrace 
Teresa Pena 
Emily Pihlquist 
Astrid Rapp 
William Robertson 
John Rosenberg 
Emily Rosenthal 
Eric Salzman*
Eric Seamon 
Lina Shah*
Nicole Shechtman 
Austin Shifrin 
Joline Sikaitis*
Marla Spontak 
Nathan Stark 
Russell Steele*
Brian Surkan* 
Bethany Sutton* 
Holly Tait*
Beth Trapani 
Kerri Ullucci 
Angel Verdugo 
Michelle Vollmar* 
Joshua Wisch* 
Wingtat Yu
Seniors
Holley Anstatt 
Anthony Babeo 
Amber Benezra* 
Sonya Brady 
Christy Callahan*
Maria Casella 
Anthony Chang 
Darren Chiapetta*
Mary Cribbs 
Tricia Davis*
Mark Dos Santos*
Chong Ee*
Susan Fenton*
Gretel Gaal 
Michael Gartland 
Jennifer Goetz*
Philip Gomez 
Jill Goodall*
Michael Grafton*
Karen Grunberg* 
Jenessa Gunther 
Anuj Gupta 
Carole Haggerty 
Michael Harris*
Lauren Heinz 
Daniel Highlands*
Erik Jacobson*
Lawenda Jones 
Michael Keating 
Aaron Kozbelt 
Bradley Krepps* 
Anthony Lamanna 
Steven Lee 
Jamie Lipslcy 
Christopher McCormack 
Alyssa McCunney* 
Christopher Mega* 
Heather Miles*
William Moran 
Emily Morris 
Natalie Moyer 
Azrul Osmanrani 
Philip Oye 
Aidan Palmer*
Michael Perrott 
Scott Pitkin*
Chaliese Poset*
Kathryn Rollenhagen* 
Edward Slavishak* 
Heather Stehney 
Eric Strauss*
Elisabeth Sylvan 
Jeremy Szteiter 
Jason Togyer*
Holly Trask 
Gary Wilson*
Tara Zane*
Andrew Zuercher*
* Indicates High Honors
Oracle Corporation. 500 Oracle Parkway. Box 659501. Redwood Shores. CA 94065. E-mail: jobstc us.oracle.com FAX: 1 15-506-1073 
For additional information, visit our WEB SITE at: http://www.oracle.com/inlo/hr/recriiiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Theirs. Ours.
At Oracle, we see the development of information software on a larger scale: Our technology is changing the way human knowledge is gathered, 
stored, retrieved and utilized. If you see yourself working with this decades top graduates, creating products that run on over 100 different machines, 
providing unified computing resources to over 25,000 customers in 93 countries, join us. With record sales of S3 billion and nearly 509? growth in the 
last year alone, we're now hiring over 100 of the best of the Class of96. If you have a BS/MS in Computer Science, Math-Computer Science, Information 
Networking, Technical Writing, Computer Engineering or Software Engineering, you could become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or 
Product Manager and work on any number of advanced technologies and products, including:
0pSps9L 8pIt9tom"-LcO9evtp9" *esctecs Btrvidsh 6I@cds 6tpcescv 09s9I9hch
Xcvp9 6I@cdsh 6I@cds 6tpcescv 0cacLruRces yrrLh 0phstpIiscv CrRuispeS A cs;rtlpeS
1esctutphc -uuLpd9sprehW *esct9dspac XiLspRcvp9 09s9 2cditpso -tdbpscdsitc
X9hhpacLo B9t9LLcL Btrvidsh XrIpLc CrRuispeS .ctspd9L -uuLpd9spreh
8peSiphspdh '9hcv Btrvidsh 09s9 f9tcbrihpeS A XpepeS
Learn more about Oracle at our INFORAIATION SESSION on Februaiy 12 at the Student Center. Room 206. 79p.m. Dinner will be provided.
We'll be inteiriewing on campus February 13 & 14. Sign //p at the Career Center and pick up your copy of "Projects at Oracle today. E-mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
6g-C81
Enabling the Information Age

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 199611
WpH 1ml,or9 n4lme sote90 c4Iauo9 tlCd 164lmu99
The Alley Oop
by Chris Cannon
Professional sports teams often intro
duce change to keep the fans interested. 
For instance, when the fans start to 
show disinterest, baseball, hockey, and 
football teams change cities.
Basketball, however, does not elect to 
niove around their franchises like pieces 
a chessboard. Though it has main
tained its loyalty, the NBA has not mas
tered the art of change. Nowhere is this 
more apparent than in the uniforms 
that the teams wear.
As expansion teams, I suppose Toronto 
and Vancouver had to have new uni
forms, but they didnt have to be hor
rible. The raptor in 
Torontos logo looks more 
like Barney than one of the 
antagonists from Jurassic 
Park. Vancouvers huge, 
cartoony letters that spell 
Grizzlies on their jerseys 
make their ferocious name 
sound tame.
They have Xs and Os run
ning along the trim that 
make the whole uniform 
way too busy. Theres no 
justice, though, because the 
Canadian teams are 22-60 
combined, fairly good by ex
pansion standards.
Besides expansion, the 
NBA has added new uni
forms for some very mar
ketable visiting teams to 
wear.
For example, New York 
has an away uniform just 
like their old ones, except 
for huge black bars running 
down the sides that makeG9Itpce 2oRreh5y9ts9e -ts 1vpsrt
them look like inmates. New 
York is 12-7 on the road, de
spite the uniforms.
Chicago has nice new black 
jerseys with red numbers. 
Nice, until you see them up 
close and realize that they 
have red pinstripes.
Pinstripes are for baseball 
to make their players look 
slimmer. The Yankees didnt 
have them until big Babe 
Ruth joined them. Maybe 
theyre something Michael 
brought with him from his 
minor league career. They 
must work, though, because 
the NBAs two best teams, 
Chicago and Orlando, wear 
pinstripes and are a combined 
67-14.
Last years ugliest uniform 
had to be the Cleveland Cava
liers away jersey. Blue rect
angles on a black background 
are bad enough, then throw 
in the orange Cavs that
screams Clash! Runner-up to the ugli
est uniform had to be the Cavaliers 
home jersey, which looks just like the 
away uniform, except the black parts 
are white.
There are also some totally new fash
ion offenders in the league. Atlanta threw 
away a traditional, abstract profile of a 
hawks head and came back with a poorly 
drawn bird with its wings spread. They 
wear a solid red and black combination, 
which is mainly ugly because it reminds 
you of Clevelands uniform.
Curiously, Cleveland and Atlanta are 
two of the hottest teams in the NBA, 
compiling 22-18 and 24-17 records re
spectively, after both started the season 
with big numbers in the loss column.
If any team has actually improved on 
its uniform, it is Seattle. The best in the 
West with a 2911 record, the Sonics 
merely shifted the colors from white, 
green, and yellow to white, green, and 
red. .
They had to change something, after 
two years of being ousted in the first 
BLc9hc hcc *k6gX2, u9Sc U
World championships up for grabs
International Sports
by Rahul Aggarwal
English Soccer 
Premiership: Newcastle
Uniteds dream of completing the 
unique domestic treble (the 
Premiership, FA Cup, and CocaCola Cup) may have come to an 
end, but they still remain on 
course to run away with the big
gest prize of them all  Champi
ons of England. The last time 
Newcastle had achieved that feat 
was back in 1927. Many thought 
that Newcastle would crumble 
under the pressure of being 
Premiership leaders and recent 
cup-defeats, but now that they 
have a formidable 12 point lead 
ahead of the chasers, the Mag
pies look unassailable. Indeed 
Newcastle United had a trouble
some winter period, with a 2-0 
defeat by Arsenal in the quarter
finals of the Coca-Cola Cup and a 
third round defeat by Chelsea in 
the FA Cup. Kevin Keegan, 
Newcastle United manager, has 
injuries and suspensions to worry 
about, but that will not stop him 
from investing in more foreign 
tars. He is likely to be signing 
Parmas Columbian striker, 
Faustino Asprilla, for a club 
record fee of 7.5 million pounds
within the next few days. I cant 
see anyone overtaking the Mag
pies nowthey have made their 
ground, St. James Park, a for
tress where they have maintained 
a 100 percent Premiership record 
so far this season. Their away 
form has been questionable, but 
with the quality players they 
have, spurred on by the fact that 
they have a priceless lead and 
fans who are hungry for success, 
I would have no hesitation in 
engraving their name now on the 
Premiership trophy. It would take 
a very brave person to bet against 
them.
FA-Cup: With four more 
rounds still to be played, Liverpool 
is looking more and more the great 
team they were in the 80s. With 
the likes of prolific young striker 
Robbie Fowler, and their 8.5 mil
lion pound acquisition, Stan 
Collymore, Liverpool has a lethal 
attack. They also have a reliable 
back-four and play the game the 
way it should be played  with 
fluent passing. They are my tip 
for FA Cup glory.
Coca-Cola Cup: All four teams 
left in this competition have a 
shot at winning the cup. I have a 
feeling that Division One Bir
mingham City may upset Leeds 
United. Arsenal meets Aston 
Villa, which will be an equally 
tough encounter. But I expect 
Arsenal to proceed to Wembley, 
where they should pick up the 
Coca-Cola Cup.
International Cricket
With the World Cup fast ap
proaching in only 19 days, two
GROUND FLOOR OPPORTUNITY
B-g Technology is forming a team of dynamic individuals to develop 
state-of-the-art software technology. We're creating a new product to 
help people find the information they need in mountains of data too 
big to read.
If you have one or more of the following skills:
 Natural Language Processing
 Computational Linguistics
 Mathematics/ Statistics
 Object-Oriented Programming
 Client / Server Applications
 GUI Development
 Windows 95 or NT
We invite you to contact us at the address below.
Several immediate openings are available to contribute to an effort 
Wending PAR's Leadership role in interpreting, classifying, and re
trieving natural language documents.
-Hg yusdm46a Moc5
8383 Seneca Turnpike 
New Hartford, NY 13413-4991 
Attn: HR-Team Building 
E-Mail: ric@partech.com
teams are still battling out a con
troversial Test series  Austra
lia and Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka, 
who is trailing the three-Test se
ries by 2-0, go into the final 
match, where a win would be a 
moral-building boost for the 
World Cup. The Aussies have, as 
expected, been too formidable for 
the Sri Lankans, as they were 
superior in all departments of 
the game. In the batting depart
ment, the top-order was outstand
ing, in particular Michael Slater
 in my eyes the best opener in 
the world. In bowling, legspinner 
Shane Warne was his irrepress
ible best and was ably assisted by 
Glen McGrath. Their fielding was 
outstanding as always.
Sri Lanka, on the other hand, 
was caught in the middle of an
other cricketing scandal. Their 
offspinner Muthiah Murilithar an 
had been no-balled numerous 
times for allegedly throwing the 
baU.
Australia also beat them in the 
World Series Cup, which also in
volved the West Indies. Austra
lia won the best-of-three finals, 
2-0. The last game was rain-affected with Sri Lanka being set a 
modified target of 168 from 25 
overs, after Australia had scored 
273/5 from 50 overs. Arjuna 
Ranatunga, the stocky Sri 
Lankan skipper, was heavily in
volved in the game. He was ini
tially denied a runner by the 
Australian umpire, as he thought 
Ranatunga was faking a calf in
jury. Ranatunga was also in
volved in verbal confrontations 
BLc9hc hcc f6g80, u9Sc 8
* p
SUITE LOCATION
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT 
SUrTES INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, 
CABLE MOVIES, FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND 
RESERVED PARKING.
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE
2 BLOCKS FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND
12 DELICIOUS RESTAURANTS. I MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS
- 2*y1 k6g 8122 yM- M6y18 g66X
34P3 k*kyM -.11 
B*yy2'gGM, BG3/:/ 
BM61: 44Gm4444 
*y1g1y: bssu:55spSWdrR5BpsshIitSb5Hi
Engineering Graduates
Cbctto 2cRpdrevidsrt ph hcclpeS 
s9Lcescv ceSpeccth ;psb sbc aphpre sr vtpac rit utrvidsh pesr sbc ecOs 
dcesitoW *w ori b9ac 9 vcStcc pe 11, C, Xp9Hcscder'lh rt rsbct 
tcL9scv vphdpuLpech, b9ac 9 dLrhct Lrrl 9s ;b9s Cbctto 2cRpdrevidsrt d9e 
vr wrt orit d9tcctW
FYlf
li:
Cbceo 2cRpdrevidsrt ;pLL brLv 9e pewrtR9spre hchhpre re kcIti9to 8 
wtrR yBX sr UBX 9s sbc 2sivces 
CcesctW *swh orit db9edc sr Rccs ;psb tcutchces9spach rw Cbctto 2cRpdrevidsrt Crturt9spre, ce@ro tcwtchbRcesh 9ev Lrrl 
pesr sbc wisitc sr hcc ;b9s ruurtsiepspch 9tc 9a9pL9ILc sr St9vi9sch ;br 9tc 9h Rrspa9scv 9h ;c 9tc sr vr Hi9Lpso ;rtlW fc ;pLL 9Lhr Hpac ori hrRc pehpSbs re sbc Qi9Lpso rw 8pwc pe vchpt
9ILc 19hs Gtcce;pdb, gbrvc *hL9evW
On Campus ^
fc ;pLL Ic drevidspeS pesctapc;h re kcIti9to 8W krt utcdphc Lrd9spre 
9ev spRc, dbcdl ;psb sbc C9tcct CcesctW
*w ori hb9tc 9e cesbihp9hR wrt ucthre9L 9ev utrwchhpre9L growth, 9 
vcvpd9spre sr quality and sbc s9Lces sr b9ac 9e impact re 'rsb sbce Lrrl 
pesr Cbctto 2cRpdrevidsrtW
*w ori 9tc ie9ILc sr 9sscev cpsbct sbc pewrtR9spre hchhpre rt pesctapc; hchhpreh uLc9hc wrt;9tv orit tchiRc 9ev dract Lcssct pevpd9speS 9tc9 rw 
pesctchs sr: CrLLcSc gcdtipsct, MiR9e gchritdch, Cbctto 2cRpdre
vidsrt, /PPP 2risb Crieso yt9pL, 19hs Gtcce;pdb, gL P/8G8W
MEM
CM1gp9t^SEMICONDUCTOR

---------------------------------------------------

.rLiRc UP, *hhic G4ybc y9ts9e, C9tecSpc XcLLre epacthpso, BpsshIitSb, BceehoLa9ep9/U n9ei9to GUU@
Mens basketball beats Brandis
Tartan swim teams defeat W&J, struggle in Rowan College Invitational
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Although a new year has begun, the 
mens and womens swimming teams 
continue their winning ways. Since the 
beginning of the year, the mens team 
has only lost one meet while the womens 
team has lost two meets.
Last Wednesday, both teams 
dominated Washington and 
Jefferson at home. The mens final 
score was 113-84. Highlights from 
the meet included junior Chris 
ORourkes performance, as he fin
ished first in the 200-yard freestyle 
with a time of 1:52.65. Senior Geoff 
Waller finished first in the 1000- 
yard freestyle with a time of 
10:17.41 and the 100-yard butter
fly with a time of 54.00.
Junior Jake McGuire also paced 
the team with two first places in 
the 100-yard backstroke and the 
400-yard individual medley. His 
times were 59.43 and 4:30.55, re
spectively. Senior MattMoe placed 
first in the 500-yard freestyle with 
a time of 4:57.76.
In the 200-yard medley relay, 
the team of sophomore Keith 
Duwell, Moe, freshman Jake
Soboleff, and sophomore Mike Foster 
finished first with a time of 1:43.84. 
Soboleff also had excellent swims in the 
50- and 100-yard butterfly.
The womens team also swam strong 
as they beat W&J 113-81. Stars of that 
meet included senior Rebecca Fruehan 
who set a new pool record in the 200- 
yard freestyle with a time of 1:58.10.
Fruehan was also first in the 400-yard 
individual medley with a time of5:00.40.
J unior Christina Hagopian placed first 
in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 
58.79.
Hagopian also had a strong race in the 
200-yard freestyle by placing second. 
Freshman Jennifer Skuly placed first in 
the 100-yard backstroke with a time of
we '
n9hre 2pcScevrtw5y9ts9e Bbrsr, 1vpsrt 
ybc ;rRcexh sc9R h;9R hstreSLo 9S9pehs fAn, ocs vtruucv s;r 9s sbc peaps9spre9LW
1:06.02 and sophomore Jennifer 
Supancic finished first in the 100-yard 
breaststroke with a time of 1:15.57.
In the 200-yard medley relay, the team 
of Skuly, Supancic, sophomore Carly 
Cenedella, and Hagopian finished first 
with a time of 2:01.97. In the 200-yard 
free relay, the team of Cenedella, 
Fruehan, freshman Michelle Kondo, and 
sophomore Chandra Wheeler placed first 
with a time of 1:55.26.
On January 19 and 20, both teams 
played in the Rowan College Invitational. 
The mens team lost a close meet to 
Rowan 57-38.
Exceptional races for the men were 
had by Moe who finished second in the 
200-yard breaststroke with a time of 
2:14.58.
Waller placed second in the 200-yard 
freestyle with a time of 1:47.44.
The womens team lost to Rowan 62 
32. Fruehan swam well again by placing 
first in the 1000-yard freestyle with a 
time of 10:48.35 and in the 500-yard 
freestyle with a time of 5:15.28.
In the same invitational, the mens 
team defeated Elizabeth Town handily 
72-25 while the womens team lost.
The womens team has fought adver
sity through much of the season, usually 
competing with an incomplete squad.
But they have worked hard throughout 
the season and head coach Jim Cutrone 
said, that what they lack in numbers, 
they make up in quality.
Cutrone also said, We swam well for 
being tired from training [Hall of Fame 
Classic in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida]." 
Cutrone feels that the teams have im
proved since the training.
Despite the weather, Cutrone said that 
the swimmers worked hard and had a 
great attitude. Were in much better 
physical condition. What we do from 
now until the UAAs is that we fine tune 
our technique and speedwork.- 
Cutrone said thatthe volume of swim
ming will not be stressed as much as 
quality. Practices will become lighter a 
the teams continue to rest from the Hall 
of Fame Classic.
On Friday and Saturday, the teams 
will swim at home against Westminster 
College and Fairmont State University. 
Cutrone feels that the meets will be 
competitive, especially for the womens 
team. [The meets] will be a test for 
where each athlete is and well modify 
work-out schedules according to how 
they perform.
Saturdays meet will also be the last 
Carnegie Mellon home meet ever to be 
held at the pool in the gymnasium.
Dallas Cowboys leave Pittsburgh Steelers in the dust to claim Superbowl XXX
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
How do you stop the NFC Su
perbowl dominance if youre the 
AFC? Do you send the same team 
to the big game four times in a 
row? The Buffalo Bills showed 
that wasnt the way.
How about a long shot team 
who has never played in the 
Superbowl before? San Diego 
Chargers tried and failed.
Then I guess in the end youve 
got to go with what works best 
and send in the team that has 
won all four of the Superbowls 
that it has been to, the Pitts
burgh Steelers.
No, sorry, try again. Seeingthat 
there was no celebrating in the 
streets, and that the entire city of 
Pittsburgh totally shut down for 
the rest of the night following the 
game, I think its safe to assume 
that by now everybody knows that 
the Dallas Cowboys defeated the 
Steelers 27-17 to win their third
Super Bowl Championship in four 
years and established a dynasty 
for themselves.
The big hype before this game 
was the match-up between 
Kordell Slash Stewart and 
Deion Primetime Sanders, but 
the game really came down to the 
other quarterback and 
cornerback respectively for each 
team, Neil ODonnell and Larry 
Brown. Brown, who was awarded 
MVP of the Super Bowl, inter
cepted ODonnell twice. The sec
ond interception killed a poten
tial Steelers game-winning drive 
in the fourth quarter following a 
Steelers touchdown, bringing the 
game to a 20-17 Cowboy lead.
The Cowboys capitalized 
quickly on the interception with 
Emmitt Smiths second touch
down of the game, putting the 
game out of the reach for the 
Steelers.
The Cowboys started off the 
game with a field goal, a Jay 
Novacek touchdown reception, 
and another field goal to put the 
themselves up 13-0 midway 
through the second quarter, but 
a productive drive by the Steelers, 
starting-with a Deion Sanders 
total miss of a tackle and ending 
with a Deion Sanders blown pass 
coverage in the endzone, gave the
Steelers seven points and a re
newed hope as the players left 
the field for the Diana Ross halftime show.
But as day turned to night and 
the second half began, a dark 
cover came over the Pittsburgh 
Steelers as Emmitt Smith dove
two yards into the endzone and 
put the Cowboys ahead 20-7. 
Once again a blowout seemed 
near. It wasnt until the fourth 
quarter that the scoreboard 
changed again with a Steelers 
field goal, which at the time didnt 
seem very significant, but was
followed by an unexpected onside 
kick and a Bam Morris touch
down. This brought down the 
cheers of Steelers fans from Sun 
Devil Stadium to the streets of 
Oakland. Finally, it looked like 
wed get a game that actually 
deserved the title of Superbowl.
-Rps T9t5y9ts9e 'ihpechh X9e9Sct
Whispers began emerging that 
maybe, just maybe, this would be 
the game.
The game where the Cowboys 
would be brought back down to 
earth. The game where the AFC 
Super Bowl curse would be bro
ken. The game that would crown 
the Pittsburgh Steelers as the 
Super Bowl Champions for the
1995 season. But in the end this 
was just the game where Neil 
ODonnell threw the game-end
ing interception to Larry Brown 
to give the Dallas Cowboys a 5-3 
Super Bowl record.
So now, doubt about ODonnell 
returning to the Steelers next 
year will begin to emerge once 
again. Now well be seeing a Cow
boy in every third commercialNow maybe the talk about the 
AFC curse will turn from myth to 
fact, and who knows, maybe the 
AFC will never win another 
Superbowl. Unlikely, but pos 
sible. Well, this Superbowl is over, 
and now becomes a part of h^ 
tory and NFL Films Productions*
Its on to Hawaii and the Pr 
Bowl. Aloha.
Steve Charnoubi isasophornof 
who was rumored to be cheerm 
for the Steelers at several W0 
ments in the game
By ADAM VINCENT 
& ALVIN GAVIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriters
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
basketball team won a Uni
versity Athletic Association 
game at Skibo Gymnasium 
this past Sunday, defeating 
Brandeis University, 85-76. 
This brings the Tartans back 
up to .500 in the UAA and to 
8-7 overall.
The Tartans had a very 
tough game for the most part, 
but won when some new faces 
stepped up and showed the 
versatility of this team. The 
squad was down 65-63 with 
8:47 remaining, but sopho
more LaDale Widmeyer shot 
for nine points, and the Tar
tans went on an explosive 22- 
11 run. Widmeyer finished 
with a game and career high 
of 15 points. In addition to 
this great performance, jun
ior Gary Trendel scored 11 
points, all in the second half, 
and had a tremendous defen
sive presence down low. Se
nior Kevin Byrne continued 
to be a force for the Tartans, 
also scoring 15 points.
Carnegie Mellon took to the 
road this weekend to play at 
Washington on January 26 
and Chicago on January 28.
On Sunday, the womens
team also took on 
Brandeis, a team look
ing for its first UAA vic
tory. CMU was fresh 
off a 55-41 loss to New 
York University in 
which the Tartans 
outscored the Violets 
24-3 at the free-throw 
line, but only shot 16 
percent from the field.
In the first half,
Brandeis and CMU 
played a tight game 
that culminated in a 
one point Brandeis 
lead, 2625. The Tar
tans, 0-8 when trail
ing at the half, were 
looking to break that 
dubious streak when 
play resumed. The sec
ond half went down to 
the wire, but Brandeis 
was able to pull it out 
in the end 52-49.
Sophomore Marcelle 
Steele led the Tartans 
in scoring with 12 
points, along with five 
rebounds and two 
steals. Sophomore 
Katie OLeary finished
nine points and eight rebounds UAA champion Washington against them last year by alin only 23 minutes of play. University in the first of a most 30 points.
Riding a two-game losing four-game road trip. The womens team also chalstreak, the Tartans faced a CMU had not played Washlenged Rochester on the road 
toughtaskingoingto St. Louis, ington yet this season, but in a UAA match-up on JanuMissouri to take on defending lost both of their games ary 28.
y9ts9e kpLc Bbrsr
ybc ;rRcexh I9hlcsI9LL sc9R ;9h uL9opeS ;cLL 9S9pehs 't9evcph, Iis 
pe sbc wpe9L Rpeisch rw sbc S9Rc, 't9evcph Srs sbc ;pe, 3/m4UW
Gihs9ar 2S9ejctL95y9ts9e BbrsrSt9ubct 
ybc huccvhl9speS dLiI utcu9tch wrt 9 spRc stp9L 9s sbcpt cObpIpspre L9hs 2iev9oW
MUv 9cuue9iIClm6 s41n 6uIo9 1c ,o mIClmI49
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
Last Sunday, the CMU speedskating 
club held a skating exhibition at the 
Schenley Park Ice Rink. The group 
demonstrated some of the racing tech
niques and basics of the sport in an 
effort to spread awareness of the club 
and encourage new members.
The membership of the speedskating 
club has grown to about five or six 
regular CMU members. Four of the 
clubs members will be traveling to 
compete in the Susquehanna Chal
lenge on February 3-4. Senior Denise
Soultanian and fifth-year senior 
Steven Radney, the co-captains of the 
club team, will be going, along with 
senior rookies Kirk Framke and Bill 
Moran. For Framke and Moran, this 
will be their first race. Both Soultanian 
and Radney are much more experi
enced. Just over a month ago, they 
both participated in a competition in 
Cleveland, where Soultanian won the 
womens division, and Radney placed 
well withinthe mens division.
The club follows a rigourous train
ing and practice schedule, led by their 
coach Dr. Wade Smith. Smith is a 
BLc9hc hcc 2T-y1, u9Sc 8

---------------------------------------------------

 TT TT% T /MmianraraiaiiiEBraLlVlllU
Volume 90, Issue 14The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania29 January 1996
gIcu solru9 c9u lm2l9ln4u CdouIC C MUv 9C1eumC9
Student examines obscurities of sexual assault
By AMBER BENEZRA
Tartan Staffwriter
Almost every Hollywood movie, tele
vision show, and advertisement uses 
sex; these images serve as a representa
tion of our socially constructed gender 
roles and discourses. Womens bodies 
are objectified and exploited, and too 
often, sex in movies is violent and forced. 
Rape scenes become love scenes, and 
sexual violence is depicted as tolerated, 
normal, even permissible. Audiences are 
told, She really wanted it all along. 
These images signify dominant societal 
beliefs about rape.
The major problem with rape in our 
culture seems to be definition. To a lot of 
people, rape only means that a stranger 
with a gun in a dark alley forces a woman 
to have sex. According to the Center for 
Victims of Violent Crime (CWC), over 
80% of rape victims know their attack
ers; they are friends, dates, neighbors, 
co-workers, lovers, and spouses.
Sexual assault is a wide range of un
lawful, sexually violent acts varying from 
unwanted sexual comments or jokes, to 
unwanted touching of another persons 
buttocks, breasts, or penis, to forced 
penetration of genital or anal opening 
with an object. Carnegie Mellons policy 
defines sexual assault as non-consensual sexual contact sexual contact 
against a persons will and without his or 
her consent.
Acknowledging rape as a widespread, 
central social issue requires challenging 
prevalent beliefs such as: The woman 
was asking for it, or only women are 
victims of rape, sexual assault is an 
; impulsive, uncontrollable sex act, and 
rapists are lonely men with no other 
sexual outlet. Because rape is a crime of 
violence translated into sexuality, men 
can be victims as easily as women. Rape 
victimizes women and men, whether 
straight, gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
Of adult rape victims, 7% to 10% are 
male, and the associated violence re
sults in more serious physical injuries 
than with female victims. Rape is not 
impulsive, 58% of sexual assaults are 
premeditated. It is not sexual, it is about 
power and anger. It is an act of violence 
that is carried out sexually. Rape does 
not occur because the rapist has no other 
sexual outlet; most rapists are married 
or are in sexually active relationships. 
Because rape is a violent crime, rapists 
use it as a method to assume power and 
control over another person, not for 
sexual gratification. With this contex
tual basis, putting common myths of 
rape aside, it is necessary to tackle some 
of the more difficult definitions such as: 
What is force? What is consent? When is 
! it acquaintance rape?
Until a few years ago, no one ever 
heard the phrase date rape. CWC 
says acquaintance rape is now defined 
as using physical force, emotional bar
gaining, blackmail, or mind games to 
force sexual intercourse.
This can happen when 
the victim is passed out, 
too drunk to refuse, or 
too scared to protest.
On college campuses 
(and CMU is no excep
tion) the prevailing form 
of sexual assault is ac
quaintance rape. One 
out of every four college 
women has been the vic
tim of rape or attempted 
rape, and a womans risk 
of being raped by some
one she knows is four 
times greater than her 
risk of being raped by a 
stranger. The Pennsyl
vania Coalition Against 
Rape released a state
ment in order to bring 
date rape to the fore
front of social conscious
ness. The most common 
of acquaintance rapes 
are those that occur in 
dating or romantic situ
ations. These rapes oc
cur as the result of sex 
role behaviors and mis
understood communica
tions. Males are taught 
to score with women 
and that no means yes 
or maybe and a little 
persuasion is accept
able. Women are taught that flirting is a 
harmless game. Yet, if things get out of 
hand, they are responsible for the males 
behavior. Communication is non-existent and misunderstood.
Consenting sex isnt something that 
happens accidentally. It requires sober, 
verbal communication without threats
these men recognize themselves as rapthere to be physical evidence (bodily 
ists. In a 1986 study conducted at UCLA, harm such as bruises, cuts, etc.) to prove 
30% of the men said they would commit a rape occurred.
rape if they would not be caught, and When asked if they felt rape was an 
50% of the men said they would force a issue on this campus, students had a
-LL St9ubpdh re sbph u9Sc Io X9tl 1SScts5y9ts9e -ts 2s9ww
woman to have sex if they were sure they 
would not be caught.
CMU is concerned with crime statis
tics remaining low, and admission infor
mation reports zero rapes at CMU. Rapes 
of CMU students in off-campus housing 
have no significance; a rape has to hap
pen on campus to count.
"Males are taught to score with women 
and that no means yes' or maybe and a 
little persuasion is acceptable...
 The PCAR
or intimidation. Statistics reflect how 
college men and women fail to identify 
rape-nine in ten acquaintance rapes are 
not reported and one in 12 college men 
admitted to committing acts that meet 
the legal definition of rape, yet few of
For Carnegie Mellon, the rapist must 
be apprehended, tried, and convicted for 
a real rape to have occurred. Yet, less 
than half of all rapes are ever reported, 
and only 3% of all rapes ever lead to 
conviction. Pennsylvania law requires
variety of responses. A few male stu
dents said that rape really didnt exist at 
all in their experience. Rolf Neil said, 
This summer there were posters every
where about the rapist around CMU, all 
the way up Beeler. Everyone was really 
aware of it, but by the time school started 
again it just faded out. Deborah Cohen 
said, People in the Carnegie Mellon 
community are really sheltered from 
violent crime. [They dont] realize that 
rape is an everyday occurrence.
Alcohol plays a big part in rape-drink
ing can inhibit clear thinking, increase 
aggression, and make it harder to assess 
risk. 75% of men and at least 55% of 
women involved in acquaintance rape 
had been drinking or taking drugs prior 
to the assault. If someone is too drunk to 
give his/her consent, having sex with 
him/her can constitute a rape. In several 
states, laws state that someone who is 
drunk cannot give true consent.
All facts cited by Amber Benezra are 
provided by the CWC and the PCAR.
Sexual Assault 
Advisors offer 
help to rape 
victims
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
I just think people have the idea 
that no one gets raped here. The fact 
is, things go on all the time, but no 
one knows about them. There is no 
real outlet for rape. People dont talk 
about it here, said Kerri Ullicci, a 
junior History and Policy major. 
Ullicci is the Coordinator of Sexual 
Assault Advisors and has been work
ing with victims of rape for four 
years.
She, as well as twenty other fac
ulty members, professors, and stu
dents are trained Sexual Assault 
Advisors on campus. 20 new advi
sors will begin a 16 hour training 
session throughout this semester.
Karen Stump, a faculty member 
with the Chemistry department who 
has been a Sexual Assault Advisor 
for three years, explains the role of 
the Sexual Assault Advisors. She 
said, Advisors are trained and 
supplementary training is held each 
year. Our most important role is to 
support victims in dealing with the 
aftermath of sexual assault. We also 
are taking a more active role on 
educating the campus community.
A portion of the Sexual Assault 
Advisors training will be presented 
by Pittsburgh Action Against Rape 
(PAAR) as well. PAAR offers a 24 
hour hotline as well as group and 
individual counseling. The phone 
number for Paar is 431-5665.
Center for Victims ofViolent Crime 
is another Pittsburgh based facility. 
The center is best for those seeking 
help with the legal aspect of the rape 
and getting the case put together.
Other on-campus places where stu
dents can go for counseling and help 
include the Health Center. Here, a 
student can undergo tests to verify if 
she has contracted an STD or has 
become pregnant.
Stump said, To help victims heal 
physically, there is the Health Cen
ter. The staff have been well trained 
in helping sexual assault victims, 
and they can facilitate getting test
ing done for STD and pregnancy. A 
rape kit can also be completed should 
the victim eventually decide to purBLc9hc hcc g-B1, u9Sc 8:
cu 2lsClr9 9dIou Cdulo uScuolumsu9 C du4c Cduo9
Surviving date rape...
The following is an excerpt from an interview 
with a CMU student and survivor of rape. She 
agreed to share her experience with the Tartan, 
but wished to remain anonymous.
My experience with rape was three and a half 
years ago. I was raped on a date with someone I 
had been seeing for two weeks  it was our third 
date. The guy was just someone in my circle of 
friends. When I look back, I realize that he was 
verbally abusive towards me from the start, but 
at the time I had no idea that I was in danger. I 
said I wanted to go home, he said that I didnt 
have to do anything I didnt want to do. But just 
minutes later he started trying to take my clothes 
off and I twisted my legs together to keep him 
from doing it. This whole incident took place in a 
cai', and for some reason I have a lot of shame 
about that, it seems so tacky and cheap, trivial in 
a way.
1 told him I didnt want to have sex, and he 
' arted desperately pleading with me. I started 
to cry because I felt trapped and betrayed, be
cause he had said I didn't have to do anything I 
didnt want to, but it was apparent that he had a 
definite agenda. I started screamingno. He yelled 
at me to tell him that I loved him, but I wouldnt.
I panicked. I tried to fight him off for what seemed 
like forever; it was the most physically and emo
tionally draining experience of my life. I scratched 
the hell out of him, but there came a point when I 
couldnt resist, I had to give up. I remember then 
feeling more alone than I ever felt.
I still feel so ashamed when I remember 
that feeling, that point in time when 
gave up, stopped fighting. When I look 
back, I always doubt myself, like 
maybe if I could have resisted a little 
longer, hit him one more time, what
ever. The fact of the matter is that 
he was bigger and stronger than ! 
wasIm very resentful about 
that. Im not sure how a 
woman can ever surmount 
that.
Thats how I lost my vir
ginity. He took me home and 
I went into my house, cried in 
the shower, went to bed but didn't 
sleep, and went to school the next day. I was in a 
numb state of disbelief, I knew that what hap
pened was beyond comprehension. He called me 
the night after and said he couldnt sleep and was 
BLc9hc hcc 0-y1 g-B1 u9Sc 8:
Surviving gang rape..
The interviewee below attends CMU and has 
survived gang rape. Names have been changed 
throughout the text to maintain anonymity.
When Lori was 14, three boys forced themselves 
on her at a party in her own house. Her mother was 
away visiting a sick grandmother, and Lori was 
home alone. Her friend Kate invited her older 
brother over, and he told all of his friends to
 come over to party. The party and the gang 
rape only come to Lori in images and in 
, moments now; she has blocked out much 
of the incident through the years.
I dont really remember that night 
that well .... There was one guy I 
f knew, his name was Jeff and we 
J went to the same high school, so 
he was either seventeen or eigh
teen. He was in the bad crowd... 
He was the first person who raped 
me, but I dont remember how it hap
pened... by the end of the night three guys 
had forced themselves on me. I was a virgin and I 
didnt particularly want to have sex, although 
being fourteen years-old you think about these 
things a lot, but not in that type of situation.
I got really scared. I didnt really know how it
had happened to me, I didnt really have a con
cept. It took me a little while to understand 
...because I didnt know that this wasnt the way 
that things were supposed to happen. I wasnt 
even informed enough to know that it was called 
rape.
Lori ran away from home for the two weeks 
directly following the rape, but the authorities 
eventually picked her up and brought her back 
home. Lori re-entered school upon her return, but 
she was no longer the straight-A student of years 
past. Six months later, Loris mother put her in 
an institution because of her disruptive behavior. 
It was there, at the hospital, that Lori was able to 
accept that she had been raped.
It [the rape] became my own secret. Because in 
the hospital, even though people helped me 
through it, and they were telling me what 1 
experienced, I didnt necessarily believe that this 
had actually happened to me.
I tried to disassociate myself from my body, 
and thats a difficult thing to do. Its not just 
someone rapingyour body. I really felt that I was 
stripped of whatever I was  anything that I 
believed in, and I didnt know who I was any
more.... Just for my own sake I had to block things 
BLc9hc hcc G-G g-B1 u9Sc 8:

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996
Birth control plays role in 
lives of men and women
Foozeball gives columnist athletic challenge
By BECKY COWSER
Tartan Acting News Co-Editor
I know people who have funny stories 
about pacing up and down store aisles 
for long periods of time, trying to get up 
the nerve to go to the counter and buy 
condoms. It may seem ridiculous, but it 
really is an embarrassing situation. Its 
even more embarrassing when the guy 
behind the counter is an old man who 
looks like your grandfather and [not 
only] asks if you want the ribbed ones or 
the ones with spermicide [but also] if 
you want the small pack or the dozen 
pack. So you sheepishly ask for the dozen 
pack while you swear you can feel him 
raising his eyebrows in disapproval. Its 
just too personal.
This story, told by a female sophomore 
economics major, Sharon is only one 
account of the embarrassment that 
seems to abound when the topic of birth 
control comes up in conversation. The 
frequency of such terrifying experiences 
among people is proof that while birth 
control is commonly known to be a ne
cessity today, for some it is still an un
comfortable topic. For example, so awk
ward is the subject that almost everyone 
contacted for this article wished to re
main anonymous. But if it is widely 
known that birth control is necessary for 
people to be responsible not only for 
themselves but also for their partners, 
why is the subject still such a sensitive 
one?
I am on the pill for medical reasons
and I am still somewhat mortified at the 
thought of my roommate seeing the pack
age lying around, said one female fresh
man. I dont know many girls who would 
feel comfortable buying condoms or even 
having them around. Theres too much 
of a stigma attached, like youre admit
ting youre hoping to have sex or expect
ing to have sex. [Even though] its no 
longer a black sin in society to have sex, 
somehow if youre a girl its [still] not 
okay.
But while some people are embar
rassed to face another person and ask 
for contraceptives, let alone have a con
versation about them, others believe that 
sexual maturity plays an important role 
in discussing and purchasing birth con
trol. If [people] are too shy to buy 
them....Then how are they gonna get 
around to using them? said one female 
history major.
Jerry Clark, a freshman mechanical 
engineering major, said, [I feel] a lot of 
people are still nervous, but far more 
comfortable than a few years back.
One of the reasons why some people, 
especially men, may be more comfort
able as of late is because of the wide
spread discussion of sexually transmit
ted diseases such as AIDS. The impor
tance and severity of STDs has made 
issues such as unwanted pregnancy and 
birth control much more common.
Val Fouron, a sophomore ece major, 
believes that the concern about STDs 
overshadows [the concern about] un'*gyM, re u9Sc 8:
Pulp Free
'o 1tpd 29LjR9e
CMU may be a division three uni
versity, but that doesnt mean we dont 
have any athletic inclination. Weve 
got some quality teams. I think one of 
them even went to some sort of playoff 
game once. CMU 
has also got some 
pretty swell IM 
sportsjust check 
out the section be
fore this one.
What we need are 
more common 
man sports, but I 
mean sports, real 
ones. Theres some
thing nice to be said 
for mind numbing, 
pupil dilating, hand 
cramping, regress
ing video shenani
gans  they keep 
people with an aw
ful lot to contribute 
to society amused. However, for those 
of us into action, I mean one on one or 
two on two good old fashion American 
action... Foozeball\
Is there anything greater than a 
sport like foozeball? Two people side 
by side, arched over the table against 
their enemies (their enemies being 
the two people on the other side of the 
table), ready to pounce on any sign of 
weakness. A flick of the wrist, a streak
of the ball, a loud popping sound, and the 
sonic boom type goal lofts one team to a 
level so superior to the other that all 
bragging rights are reserved... until the 
next goal.
Yes indeed, when that next fooze (jive 
for beginning the game anew by drop
ping the ball into the table) begins, one 
team will undoubtedly talk trash to the 
other in an attempt to win through in
timidation as well as wrist action.
An obvious strategy seems to be to get
the ball to the front positions, but never 
estimate the power of the goalie or de
fensive players. With a skilled hand in 
control, these rear players will often 
whiz one the length of the floor so fast 
that Ive actually seen opponents of such 
a play forfeit the rest of the game in 
embarrassment.
One of the greater controversies over 
the game is the actual fooze. Some play
ers develop a knack for the spin fooze
 a technique used to land the ball on 
the table so that it immediately shoots 
off in the direction of the goal. Such a 
fooze can result in an immediate goal 
if it nicks one of the players, but it does 
not necessarily actually get directed 
towards the goal by the player. Foozers 
will continue to debate the validity of 
such a goal just like other heated top
ics that get thrown around the table 
such as: if Barbie were life size, would 
she really be eight feet tall; which is 
better Chicago 
Hope or ER; and 
of course, how do 
you make spa
ghetti?
There are 
other fooze ballesque sports, 
though you may 
be surprised to 
find out what 
qualifies as one 
and what does 
not. Ping-pong is 
esque,butpoolis 
not. Football is 
esque but bas
ketball is not. 
Cricket is esque 
but croquette is not. Foozeball is still 
the best of its kind. If there arent 
enough people around, go one on one, 
but the two on two brings the real 
action to the table.
Eric Salzman is training to become a 
foozeball master. His passing skills are 
solid, his blocking a bit less than me
diocre, and his backhand is practically 
non-existent.
Women labeled as witches, 
used as scapegoats for 
societal problems
Cracking the Myth
'o 2ij9eec B9vvrdl
From the Middle Ages to 
about 1650, some historians 
believe approximately nine 
million women were executed, 
because they were accused of 
practicing witchcraft. Today 
our beliefs surrounding witch
craft have been romanticized; 
images of spells and cults and 
caldrons have permeated into 
popular culture, portraying 
witches as old, ugly women. 
Whether or not all of these 
women, and some men, actu
ally practiced witchcraft is dis
puted; it is obvious people be
lieved they did. But I would 
argue, rather than condemn
ing these women because they 
were witches and therefore 
inherently evil, people used 
witches as scapegoats to ex
plain events that they could 
otherwise not explain.
Our enlightened society to
day explains natural disasters, 
wars and epidemics in rational 
terms; several centuries ago 
people explained such catas
trophes through the presence 
of social deviants. Women con
sisted of the majority of social 
deviants. Women were blamed 
for infant death, impotence, 
famines, and sickness. Pre
sumably people believed such 
things because they didnt 
know better. They had no 
logical explanations to use, so 
they accommodated their lack 
of belief with what they knew 
at the time. People used scape
goats to explain occurrences 
they were incapable of explain
ing with their present knowlTherefore, the belief that 
witches were responsible for 
natural disasters shows that 
the concept of witches in the 
Middle Ages was socially con
structed and regulated by the 
popular culture of the time. As 
the Age of Reason and Enlight
enment developed, witch per
secutions stopped because 
people find new scapegoats or 
reasons to explain events; 
these scapegoats we now call 
logic and rational thought..
Why mostly women were tar
geted as witches has to do with 
the way society perceived 
women. Thought to be submis
sive and easily led, society be
lieved women were more likely 
to cohabit with the devil and 
thus become his servant. The 
holocaust of women in the 
Middle Ages resembles the ho
locaust of the Jews in this cen
tury. The mass murder of these 
two groups of people was justi
fied by social construction. 
Hitler viewed the Jews as ra
cially inferior and therefore 
decided to practice eugenics 
based on his principles. The 
Catholic Church and later, 
Protestants as well, used the 
popular beliefs surrounding 
women to justify condeming 
and killing them, especially 
older women who did not fit 
into their expected roles. Such 
women as wet nurses and older 
women who took care of infants 
while mothers recovered from 
birthing were consider deviant 
because they no longer fulfilled 
the expected role of a woman as 
mother. Therefore when a baby 
died unexpectedly, usually 
these women were blamed.
I am not trying to refute the 
notion that witches exist, rather 
I am arguing that the way in 
which society defined witches 
allowed women to be used as 
scapegoats. It is no accident 
that we think of witches as old, 
ugly and vengeful hags, women 
who were resentful because 
they no longer were valued by 
society because they could not 
bear children and thus be so
cially accepted. Rather it wasnt 
necessarily only these women 
who had problems dealing with 
the fact that they were no longer 
socially useful, but society as 
well. So society dealt with them 
they only way they could: cre
ated ideologies that made them 
socially evil and that justified 
their executions.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior 
English major.
interactive lecture series examines issues of trust
By TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Who can you trust? Can you 
trust anyone? Can your trust 
members of your family? Can 
you trust your friends? These are 
just some of the questions that 
CMU students responded to last 
Tuesday during video interviews 
on campus.
The idea is to get peoples opin
ion so that different views can be 
heard, said Drew Ryan, Junior, 
ECE major, and President of 
InterVarsity Christian Fellow
ship. Ryan and other members of 
InterVarsity Christian Fellow
ship helped organize the video 
interviews in preparation for their 
newest campus program - 
QUEST.
QUEST was initiated by Rob 
Malone, staff worker and mentor 
of InterVarsity Christian Fellow
ship. Malone said, QUEST is an 
opportunity for students of every 
persuasion to be able to come 
together to share their views on a 
number of different subjects this 
semester.
The insightful and sometimes
shocking responses will be heard 
this Thursday, February 1, from 
8:00p.m.-9:30 
p.m. at Piper 
Cafe in
Morewood, as 
part of a series 
of open forums 
known as
QUEST. The 
responses will 
generate dis
cussion at the 
meeting and 
give students 
the chance to 
voice their 
opinions.
The purpose 
ofQUESTisfor 
students to par
ticipate in a 
community 
conversation 
about issues 
important to 
them. Its an 
opportunity for 
students to 
share their
thoughts in a relaxed setting and 
at the same time learn about the
views of other people.
The video interviews conducted 
last Tuesday 
were taped in 
the lobby of 
Morewood 
around 12 
noon by 
Malone and 
Ben Henty, 
freshman,ECE 
major. 
InterVarsity 
Christian Fel
lowship con
ducted ran
dom video in
terviews on 
campus last 
semester as 
well. Ryan 
said, The interviewers 
asked stu
dents who 
they thought 
God is and the 
responses 
were surpris
ing. The idea 
is to listen to peoples opinion in 
order to get a better sense of what
they are thinking.
This Thursday marks the first 
meeting of QUESTS four-week 
series on trust. QUEST will hold 
two more series throughout the 
semester on various topics, each 
series facilitated by .a different 
speaker who will help guide dis
cussion as well as show video 
tapes, movie clips, and present; 
music.
Ryan expects a large turnout 
this week. Last semester, about 
120 people showed up for a simi
lar meeting that focused on the 
question: Why believe in any
thing at all?
When asked about the signifi
cance of the name, QUEST, Ryan 
said, People are searching, try1- 
ing to figure out what its all about; 
QUEST is kind of an adventure'. 
It facilitates people being able to 
discuss, relate, and improve com
munity relations.
Ryan has been a member of 
InterVarsity Fellowship for two 
and a half years. The organiza
tion includes 20 members. For 
more information about QUEST, 
contact Drew Ryan or Rob 
Malone.
Pro/ENGINEER The Winning Edge
With its powerful and innovative line of Pro/ENGINEER C-05C-X hrws;9tc utrvidsh, 
9ev tcdcesLo 9dHiptcv X1CM-*C9e9Lohph hrws;9tc, B9t9Rcstpd ycdberLrSo Crturt9spre ph 
rist9dpeS sbc drRucspspre Io bcLupeS krtsiec 3PP Lc9vcth risu9dc sbcpthW
Today, our continuing record-breaking success 9ev Str;sb dtc9sc ruurtsiepspch sr @rpe 
rit ;peepeS sc9R" ;rtLv;pvcW fc b9ac db9LLceSpeS urhpspreh wrt 9dbpcacRcesmrtpcescv St9vi9sch pe 
sbc 9tc9h rw X1CM-*C-8 1G*11g*G 9ev 26kyf-g1 1G*11g*GW
Rated as one of the nation's fastest growing public corporations Io Fortune, Forbes, 
Business Week 9ev INC. R9S9jpech, ByC sruh Financial World's Lphs rw -Rctpd9xh 3P 'chs XpvmC9u 
CrRu9epch" ;bpLc Btr51G*11g ;peh 9ddL9pR 9h Industry Week's ycdberLrSo rw sbc Yc9tW"
PTC offers a stimulating, dynamic professional environment uLih bpSbLo drRucspspac 
drRuceh9spre, 9 R9sdbpeS 4PG (l) uL9e, cRuLrocc hsrdl uitdb9hc uL9e, cvid9spre9L 9hhphs9edc, 9ev 9 
wiLLo u9pv Icecwpsh u9dl9ScW yr cOuLrtc 9 wisitc ;psb ih, uLc9hc aphps orit C9tcct Ccesct srv9oW 0ptcds 
tchiRch 9tc 9Lhr 9ddcuscvW X9pL5w9O sr MiR9e gchritdch: -yy: 0cusW CrLLcSc: Xcdb9epd9L 1eSpecctpeS m 
Bn5CX; 2rws;9tc 1eSpecctpeS m 25CX, B9t9Rcstpd ycdberLrSo Crturt9spre, G/8 ycdberLrSo 0tpac, 
f9Lsb9R, XP/G34W k-X: (GD) :U8m3D4W fc 9tc 9e cHi9L ruurtsiepso cRuLroct X5k505.W
"*sxh cOdpspeS sr ;rtl ;psb ;cLLmler;e drRu9epch 9ev hcc br;
sbco 9tc ihpeS rit hrws;9tc srrLh sr vchpSe sbcpt utrvidshW"
fpLLp9R TrbLct 
'cedbR9tl -uuLpd9spre 1eSpecct
PARAMETRIC
krt Rrhs dittces ByC pewrtR9spre, Lrrl ih iu re 
sbc frtLv fpvc fcI: bssu:55;;;WusdWdrR

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996L.3
Students examine contraceptive options
'*gyM, wtrR u9Sc 8/
wanted pregnancy, but in a positive way. 
It is because of diseases that men and 
women are using protection, which helps 
jower the unwanted pregnancy rate.
 While the issue of 
gTDs may make it 
feasier for men to be
come concerned 
about and discuss 
methods of birth con
trol, some women 
feel that it will al
ways be primarily a 
womans issue.
1 Birth control will 
always be a great 
concern for
women...after all, 
they are the ones 
that really have to 
deal with the conse
quences of preg
nancy. I suppose that 
men have become 
more and more 
aware [of the fact] 
that they can be held 
accountable for their 
actions in such 
jnatters...[but]
Women are the ones 
who deal with the 
horrifying wait be
tween periods when 
they know that they 
jiave put themselves 
in a compromising situation, said a 
female junior history major. If the male 
[a woman] is with is not concerned about 
birth control, then, not only is it [a
womans] responsibility to [herself] to 
get [some birth control], but [she] should 
really question what type of person [she] 
is sleeping with. Anything less and [she] 
is acting almost self destructively.
kt9edLec GcRuctLc5y9ts9e CrestpIispeS 1vpsrt
However, males do seem to realize 
how important the issue of birth control 
is for everyone in todays society. Mely 
Taveras, a sophomore mechanical engi
neering major said,  On campus, men 
are surely becoming more concerned with 
birth control. It is not only a womans 
concern anymore.
Mens curiosity and concern about dif
ferent methods of birth control is obvi
ous in the increased number of males 
who have been visiting the health center 
whether individually or with their part
ners.
[I have seen] more and more...active 
concern from males... about birth con
trol since the rise of STDs, said Shirley 
McClure, a registered nurse certified for 
college health care, and counselor at 
health services. The AIDS issue has 
opened up communication concerning 
condom use, which is one reason why 
[men] have become more comfortable 
discussing [such subjects as] birth con
trol.
The most effective method of birth 
control is abstinence, continued 
McClure of Health Services. But [even] 
with all the knowledge of risks, there is 
still irresponsible behavior [when] ma
turity breaks down due to alcohol or 
drugs.
Sharon, The important issue is that 
we are all aware of the consequences. If 
we...dont take dont take precautions, 
then we are the victims of ourselves. 
There is no absolute in anything...There 
is no person [except yourself] to blame if 
you catch something. Condoms dont 
protect against all STDs, neither are 
they a guarantee that [a woman] wont 
get pregnant. We have to realize that as 
adults, we are not immune to anything, 
and that we are often the victims of our 
own ideas of immortality.
Gang rape leaves scars
G-G g-B1, wtrR u9Sc 8*
out, because I know I would relive 
them over and over and over again...I 
think that disassociation is like some
thing being emitted into your brain 
that helps you to forget. I mean, you 
still have knowledge of the event but 
you cant recall the exact instance. Its 
actually something that Im really 
thankful for, because I do live with the 
fact of being raped everyday.
It happened eight or nine years 
ago, and it still affects my life. And I 
was just married this summer, and 
that was a big thing for me because I 
never dated that much. I had a really 
hard time trusting people. I mean, I 
trust people, but then when I start 
getting on a very intimate level with 
people it makes me very nervous. Even 
anything like changing in the same 
room with somebody... makes me ner
vous. Even though it could just be my 
best friend. Ive gotten over that a 
little bit, but that was a problem for 
me for awhile.
Lori has worked very hard to over
come this fear of intimacy. She was 
recently marrieda major step in this 
journey toward recovery.
I never dated that much... and then 
if I did it was always like the guy 
breaks up with you because you dont 
kiss him, or things like that, because 
my threshold of intimate contact was 
really high... Holding hands was a big 
deal. Having physical contact with 
somebody takes me a long time. So,
obviously the person I married, theres 
a lot of trust between the two of us. 
Hes one of first people who really 
understood what happened to me and 
will understand that sometimes Im 
gonna freak out and just be like no I 
cant have any intimate contact right 
now. Because sometimes things will 
happen to make me remember.
Lori and her mom never talked about 
what had happened to her. Lori never 
told her mom about the incident, the 
doctors at the institution did not tell 
her mom anything because her case 
was confidential, and neither woman 
like like to talk about this problematic 
period in Loris life. Because of these 
factors, Loris mom did not believe her 
when she recently told her about the 
rape.
She wrote me a letter [responding 
to Loris identification as a rape vic
tim]... telling me that I was mentally 
incompetent, and that I live in an
other world. For me, that was very 
difficult. The rape itself was hard 
enough, and dealing with it over all 
these years is a difficult thing. Its 
something that I still think about a 
lot. Sometimes its everyday, but ev
ery once in awhile its a couple times a 
week or something.
Both anonymous interviews were 
written by Shannon Gibney, a junior 
professionalwriting major and Tartan 
Contributing Editor. All names have 
been changed to ported those involved.
CMU remembers Resnik
By S. VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Co-Editor
This Sunday marks the tenth anni
versary of the explosion of the space 
shuttle, Challenger and the death of 
Carnegie Mellon alumna, Judith 
Resnik. In remembrance of her un
timely death, a commemorative din
ner will be held in the Highlander and 
Pipers Cafes as well as a candlelight 
vigil in the Gesling Stadium. Dr. An
gel Jordan and Janice Freidman will 
speak in her honor as part of the 
evening events. Jordan, a professor in 
the department of Electrical and Com
puter Engineering, acted as Resniks 
mentor and advisor during her years 
at CMU, and was instrumental in 
bringing her to speak on campus in 
the mid-eighties. Janice Freidman was 
Resniks sorority advisor; Resnik was 
a sister at Alpha Epsilon Phi. The vigil 
will begin at 7:30.
Campus groups offer support for rape survivors
g-B1, wtrR u9Sc 8*
sue this through legal channels.
Ullicci explains the purpose of a rape 
kit. She said, A rape kit is used to collect 
evidence such as hair and finger nail 
clippings. It is very useful for those who 
want to press charges against their as
sailant.
Students can contact Campus Police 
to transport them to the nearest hospi
tal where this procedure can be done. 
This is also an idea route to take if the 
victim is suffering from sever injuries.
The Counseling Center also offers its 
services to those who have been raped. 
Stump said, To help with psychological 
healing, there is the Counseling Center. 
Several of the counselors are also Sexual 
Assault Advisors. By calling the coun
seling center at 8-2922, they can get in 
touch with a Sexual Assault Advisor 
twenty four hours a day.
If they are walking alone, they shoould 
think about places where they could find 
other people or a phone if they ran into 
a situation that might be problematic.
By taking these precautions, a person 
can diminish the risk of being raped, 
however, nothing can guarantee one 
hundred percent protection. If you are 
sexually assaulted contact Campus Po
lice or a Sexual Assault Advisor as soon 
as possible to help you deal with the 
trauma and the aftermath of rape.
For more information about PAAR call 
431-5665, open 24 hours a day, dealing, 
with individual counseling of victims of 
rape and violent crime.
Date rape most common 
type of sexual assualt 
against women
0-y1 g-B1, wtrR u9Sc 
sorry, felt so bad. He would 
rape me three more times. I did 
not press charges. Everyone 
knows who is really on trial in a 
date rape situation  the vic
tim. Plus, I was so trapped in 
doubting myself  if Id done 
enough. You always wonder if 
you werent to blame in some 
way.
I just did not want this to be 
my life. I told no one what was 
going on. I felt like my family 
had enough problems, and my 
friends knew the person. I was 
.totally withdrawn for over a 
jear, not really what Id call 
alive, just existing. I stopped 
eating. I was very apathetic 
about my health and took a lot 
pf risks. I didnt really interact 
frith anyone, just kept to mylf. I concentrated a lot on my 
*hoolwork. I felt ashamed and 
Wared all the time. Ijustwanted 
}o finish high school and get 
'vay. I didnt go out with any
one for two years following that, 
sincerely believed that I just 
'anted to be alone. It seemed 
ke coming out with it would be 
dmitting that my life had gone 
'ery wrong, and I didnt want to 
>dmit that.
I struggle a lot with the fact 
!hat thats how I lost my virginty, because I cant change that, 
didnt really know what it was 
ike to have normal sex either. I 
tank that there is a tendency to 
Asexualize rape, and I agree 
hat it is in no way sexy or 
nsual or pleasurable. It is, 
O'vever sexual. To deny that is
0 trivialize the issue, because 
ape victims do what people who 
lave sex do, feel what they feel
in a certain confusing and 
ainted way.
1 never told anyone what hap
ped until I came to college.
People knew something was 
wrong because my behavior was 
so abnormal, I guess. I still ob
sessed over it endlessly. A couple 
of people who Id gotten close to in 
the beginning of school convinced 
methatlneededhelp, and though 
I wasnt too receptive at first, Ill 
be forever grateful to them. 
Therapy is probably the hardest 
thing Ive ever done, but its made 
me much more capable of dealing 
with everything.
Worried about what you eat? 
Concerned about your body image? 
Exercising too much?
Lauren Lazar Stern, M.A.
Specialist in Eating Disorders 
Individual and Group Therapy
FREE CONSULTATION
311 South Craig Street 
Convenient to CMU 
Call 361-8040 for information
nLvs Rbcgsls ud 
IsrSB r12 uL12B 
WE ACHIEVE BY 
LEAPING BOUNDARIES
Lo wStud entoFatc alySrs PFt/FuolENF /PdsPFtt StrGo sddI FrdRsT hF lNWlnt sd EFndrI
THE EXPECTED, ALWAYS IN THE DIRECTION OF WIDE OPEN POSSIBILITIES. THATS HOW WEVE MANAGED TO 
LEAP SO MANY BOUNDARIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, AND CUSTOMIZED 
INTERNETWORKING PRODUCTS. VERY SOON, VIRTUALLY EVERY INDUSTRY WILL RELY UPON INTERNETWORKING.
ilo aFlrt oFn WSNN PFNn R/dr wStudT
hlo IdFt So olyF od /FPgdPa lo oSt NFHFNX CFd/NF Wd lPF SPPFgRolENn oF EFto
AT WHAT THEY DO. TECHNOLOGISTS AND STRATEGISTS OF THE HIGHEST ORDER. AND WHAT 
HAPPENS WHEN SO MUCH TALENT COMES TOGETHER IN ONE COMPANY? A LOT OF MILESTONES. 
A LOT OF SUCCESS.
hF EFNSFHF Sr EFSrs oF EFtoT wStud St lr FDuSRrsc /PdsPFttSHF uda/lrnT hF tFF l ulNNFrsF
AS SOMETHING TO AIM FORTHEN SURPASS. OUR PEOPLE NOT ONLY USE THE LATEST TECHNOLOGYTHEY 
CREATE IT. WE BRING TOGETHER EXPERTS FROM DIVERSE LIFE EXPERIENCES AND OFFER THE IDEAL 
ENVIRONMENT FOR THEM TO REFINE THEIR TALENTS, PERFECT THEIR SKILLS AND PROMOTE THEIR STRENGTHS. 
A COMPANY DIDNT MAKE US SUCCESSFULPEOPLE DID.
Cisco entoFatc ,ruT St oF NFlISrs sNdElN tR//NSFP dg FroFP/PStF rFoWdPytc SruNRISrs
ROUTERS, LAN AND ATM SWITCHES, DIAL-UP ACCESS SERVERS AND NETWORK MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE.
iFtF /PdIRuotc SroFsPloFI En oF Cisco ,roFPrFoWdPy A/FPloSrs entoFa (Cisco IOS) NSry 
YOAYBLC.,wLV DISPERSED LANs, WANs AND IBM NETWORKS. ClSCO IS HEADQUARTERED IN SAN 
MdtFc wL lrI St oPlIFI RrIFP oF ULeZLK tnaEdN wewAT
WE RE INTERVIEWING!
Cisco Systems Representatives will be 
interviewing on campus Wednesday, February 21, 
for the following positions:
2rws;9tc 1eSpeccth  CihsrRct 2iuurts 1eSpeccth 
Check with the Career Placement Center for a detailed listing 
of positions and other dates we will be on campus.
If unable to arrange an interview with us, please fax your resume to 
(800) 818-9202, Attn: Human Resources. E-mail address: collegeocisco.com. No 
phone calls, please. EOE.
For further information on job descriptions and qualifications, 
preview our home page on the World Wide Web at: 
bssu :55;;;, dphdrW drR
VolVumel90,l

---------------------------------------------------

Cdu,c5Cku
MI44 v9X
guI(
clu(
<flz a
9
 ^ 1 N O Na a.
681-1700
We Accept Visa/Mastercard and 
Competitors Coupons
8 Cbcchc 2spdlh 
;psb h9idc 
+
G rtvct rw ;peSh 
Of
ORoo
6kk 
-eo / G/" 
2iuct 2iIh
$1399
89tSc G 
yruupeS Bpjj9, G 
rtvct rw ;peSh + 
/ Lpstc rw hrv9
U)YH :Hv) FLEM8vWy
----------------------------------------------------1--------------------------------------------------------1-----------------------------------------------------
99
-eo hR9LL-eo XcvpiR-eo 89tSc
Any Number of Toppings 
*Deep Dish Extra - Limited Time offer
ENGINEERS
BFGoodrich Aerospace  Aircraft Integrated Systems, a 
member of the BFGoodrich Aerospace family of businesses, is 
a leading supplier of state-of-the-art electronic performance 
systems for the aerospace industry.
BFGoodrich offers outstanding opportunities for highly 
innovative engineers to be at the forefront of technology 
development. We design and manufacture aircraft monitoring 
and control systems that provide improved safety, greater 
accuracy and reliability, and enhanced value for our customers 
world wide.
Representatives from BFGoodrich Aerospace will conduct 
interviews in Warner Hall on Thursday, February 8 with 
students from the following fields of study:
 Electrical and Computer Engineering
 Software Engineering
 Computer Science
BFGs Vermont location, situated near Lake Champlain and the 
Green Mountains, offers an wide array of outdoor and 
recreation opportunities and a quality of life for which Vermont 
is renowned. Burlington, the nearest city, was cited as one of 
seven ''Dream Towns" in the U.S. by Outside magazine in a 
recent cover story.
BFGoodrich Aerospace  Aircraft Integrated Systems offers 
competitive pay and an excellent benefits package.
Please contact the Career Center if you would like to learn 
more about BFGoodrich Aerospace. In addition, BFG 
representatives will conduct a reception in Room 208 of the 
Student Center from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 ptm. on February 7.
IFGoodrich
Aerospace
Aircraft Integrated Systems
GPP B9esre gr9v 
.ctSceech, .ctRres P34UG
CMUByKEN ET HJ.MRAIAyS MRO GNIS I
YMKK WLLV DyMR|S \ASI
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences and the College of Fine Arts congratulate our students 
for their outstanding academic performances during 
the Fall 1995 semester.
ns1gL*B
Jason Charney 
Rachael Keeler 
Michal Paley
T1gL*B
Devan Anthony 
D. Renee Hairston 
Emilia Izquierdo 
Hester Kamin 
Jessica Kender 
Lisa Kicielinski 
Lisa Marinacci 
Robyn Nace 
Jill Sincaglia 
Anuj Vaidya
nLScLvL*sB
Carl Foner 
Dana Heath 
Kyra Kristof 
Amanda Spear 
Seldon Yuan
,*sBcvs1
Susan Bailey 
Maureen McGranaghan 
Jessica Phillips-Silver
HUMANITIES :
----------------- and-------------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
ss Carnegie Mellon k
ATTENTION: STUDENTS WHO HAVE 
TAKEN ONE OR MORE COURSES 
WITH AN H&SS FACULTY MEMBER
4
The H&SS Deans Office invites you to suggest names of H&SS faculty mem-i 
bers for the Colleges 1995-1996 Elliott Dunlap Smith Award for Distinguished' 
Teaching and Educational Service. Past winners of this award include:
1995 John Miller, Social and Decision Sciences 
1994 Michael West, Modem Languages 
1993 Richard Young, English 
1992 Peter Steams, History 
1991 Ann Hayes, English
1990 Margaret Clark, Psychology (1990 University Ryan Award CoWinner)
1989 Richard Smith, Social and Decision Sciences 
1988 Richard Schoenwald, History (1989 University Ryan Award Win
ner)
1987 Joel Greenhouse, Statistics (1987 University Ryan Award Winner) 
1986 Ludwig Schaefer, History (1986 University Ryan.Award CoWinner)
1985 Lois Fowler, English
1984 Steven Klepper, Social and Decision Sciences 
1983 Preston Covey, Philosophy
1982 Michael Weber, History (1983 University Ryan Award Winner) 
1981 John R. Hayes, Psychology
1980 Granville Jones, English (1980 University Ryan Award Winner)
Nominations should consist of a letter (2 pages, maximum), signed by any three 
faculty or students, submitted to Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS, 
Baker Hall 161 (e-mail address: jdOx). Nomination deadline: January 31.1996. 
Finalists will be selected in early February 1996, and nominators instructed to 
submit full nomination packets (for which guidelines will be provided) by April 
1, 1996. A detailed description of the award criteria is available in the H&SS 
Academic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161).

---------------------------------------------------

DILBERT  by Scott Adams
* g18-y10 1f2, 8y6, 
6k yM1 1XB86Y112 
g12*G10 * '*yy1g 
0*3G2yW yM1 y6B y1 
B1gC1y -826 81ky, 
g1-8*Z*G yM1Y C680
W WG1y '1yy1g 
pw?| n6'2 1821m J o T C6M1g1W
yM1 C6XB-Y -6C10 
- 1f C6XB12-y*6 
B8- y60-YW '6212 
P*88 '1 B-*0 68Y y6 
yM1 y6B y1 B1gC1y 
6k yM1W1ssB86Y112W u
yM*2 C680 
M-.1 - 
*XB-Cy 6 
yM621 6k 
Y6 fM6 
g1X-*W
y1 B1gC1y 6k Y6g 
C2y6X1g2 -CC6y k6g 
*1yY B1gC1y 6k Y6g 
21g.*C1 C62y2W yM1Y 
X2y '1 18*X*-y10W
*x.1 -2T10 06G'1gy y6 
M18B 2 G1y g*0 6k 
6g X62y yg6'8126X1 
C3yPX1g2W
*2 yM-y yM1 2-X1 
Gg6B 6k C2y6X1g2 
fM6 -Cy-88Y 21 
6g Bg60Cy?f1 G1y yM1 
'6212?B82 yM1 612 
fM6 f1g1 
*ng10 
B-CT*G *yW
3P, Y6xg1 B*yy*G Y6g 
*y188*G1C1 -G-*2y 
yM1 C6881Cy*.1 21X 0g*.1 
6k -88 yM1 y11-G1g2 
fM6 6f C6XBy1g2?
*xX *.1y*G - 1f 
y1CM686GY y6 Bg1.1y 
T*02 kg6X 211*G 2Xy 
6 yM1 *y1g1yW
*x.1 g10C10 Y6g x 
21g.*C1 C62y2 'Y G*.*G 
yM1 y1CM*C-8m3BBPgy 
Gg6B - 8*2y10 
BM6X1 X'1gW *mmmmmmmmmmm
fM-y 0*0 Y6 T6f 
*2 Y6g yM-y *k Y6 By 
B6*y? - 8*yy81 M6y 6 
, - 26f'-88 *y 
\ C8-2y - 
\ 86G y*X1 * 
=P ej~y M188?
-0 - k8-f * Y6g 
Bg60Cy 0*2-'812 yM1 
C2y6X1gx2 1mX-*8 m, 
yM1Y C-xy 1.1 fg*y1 
y6 Y6 k6g M18B5
fM-y *k 
yM1Y -2T 
- kg*10 
y6 1mX-*8 
2? *Y
B16B81 fM6 21 
6g Bg60Cy tY 
06xy M-.1
FRIENDS. n
g1-88Y? 
* 21 
*yW
w--yy, Y6g :P' *2 y6 y12y 
XY 1f *.1y*6 yM-y 
'86CT2 T*02 kg6X 211*G 
0*gyY B*Cyg12 6 yM1 
*y1g1yW
M*2 Y6yMk8 
Cg*62*yY *2 6 
X-yCM k6g XY 
y1CM*C-8 'g*88*-C1W
W'y 6g Bg*X-gY 
.106g C-xy 018*.1g,
3P" (* f601gL~x 
) ( fM-yx2 6 y. 
/ T ' {TONIGHT. _yf*88 *y '1 - g1Q12y . 
k6g *k6gX-y*6 6g 
- *XBg-Cy*C-8 6x 
268y*6?
81yx2 06 
y~? '6yM!
WWW 3MP80 )1 g*3T - 
8-f2*y 6g '*80 - 
- Bg60Cy yM-y 6'60Y
f-yw? > X1 y6 X-T1 
> - CM6*C1W?
* M6B1 yM-y 
C6-2xy yM1 260 
6k 1Y1A-882 
G1yy*G g1-88Y 
'*GW
Critcs r hoctwcoepagriitL 
9rReiRew oh gn Rv bctrit9l 
Re iut hRerCiooes in ido 
Rgrwtv rct bognRetplll
\UJEIL, LETS GET TO 
I IT, ZONK! PfCKMB 
\OUT A LETTER AT 
\ RANDOM, OKAY?
I9trc gS Bn1 
R drei 2ocl 
*nrn2TL
Criit csh owc rhep agLh9 
Rnvbl udISbvR BR1b 
2* vdu1 ITIul1vI B,Iul 
*I:.6RBt vdbl I *2**,b 
8I:dulb u1 v26lbBRlttt \/^==5C (7T
* woi iis 
*nR,,2T
duo r1r ! 
riitcsho
dReB oh 
THE0PP5!'
uoC9oeS G 
*rctei2o ] 
v9oRCRew 
* iutgrwRb:*
H&ESAN INJERBSnNGLBTTER, 
V. 'PEAR GUYS-HATS IT 
WE TO BECOME A B&71ME 
CDHJC STRIP CHARACTER.?- m
agRBt. du2 po  iurivre 
2o re9 6oeB trv2 oetT 
rCdr2vure9Cv * Riav n2 
p iut grRCnrw:L8 9o9Crc AptMAHV!
2tvs t3tc2 9r2s -r;tact 
wR3te wrcpte1hctvu 
etd 9oCCRew 9rirlll ,
9rir duRbu 
boehRcgv iurilll 
iurilll Xmmmmmm
duri:8
B;uriv*G UP? J
[ pRvc9i * 
bCr0v52tc 
* re9 o3tc 
\ r,rReT X
uoet 2oc 
-i SKILLS! r"
3oy 9o9f 
2o woiir Co3t 
Rim x
FAvoma
\iCHARACTB&
uWtv oet hcog rncorps 6oeBT 
'argo9oh prgrvbv dcRitv 1 
3o 2o ur3tio otrc 2oc 
d9v S-iu 2ocwbuWegte'k
dtCCs hoc iuri: RiN 
vircitcvs R 9i rCC iut 
9oei ur3t 9ctvvct
r 9ebuCRetl oe gtT
-S'
dtCCs grugo9s dtact eoi 
ctPRctp io tu Crds ni 
rv r griitc oh bocitv2s 
dt ALWAYS t1grRC rp3rebt 
9coohv io iut riuocRiRtvT
Disco
93wul1vIl:bp R6.ulI6u,;p Xb 0 
58y,B lbSb6 6b,bI1b vdb 
1v6uB ;R2 I6b 6bIBulf 6ufdvm 
WMJJ f WBWOULWT?J^ 
Y * du2 eoi:
dtCCs 2tvs 9lBls dt DO ur3t 
PrCRi2 boeicoCvs PRit 
vicRewtei oetv ri iuriT M
lllpo dt 9cRei i Rdoe9tc 
durit3tc dt * uod Ri 
prge CtCC/ docBv Re 
O9Ctrvt we boeic2Ma*hgg1lrnRi 
1*dtciutip9lll
jiute1re9 
oeC2 iutelll
epxoovJ ' 
-XB ;c .6anY 
X-. yM-y &\& 
AP WHH teJTHIhiTO W g, 
8CMW 5
f-YTOTBLL wmenJ Ycote INI 
UMI70F -IM 
HWOUM0 
verDy
^x@R9tspepS;phcec8ecs x

---------------------------------------------------

'Y M*g6X* M-21-fVQWUME FWE, NO. TWO
6oy Wlen^ef0 of My Life In 7 T^Vxts"7
Peds
E-MAIL - ?A&0134'5@ WA^serve .or.jp
b>y Mike Yeh
vA itCC utlll uod r6G dt
InssiId ei Di iv roeFine a
MAIN CHARACTER?_______________i
AN> HON ARE ME SUPPOSE 
TO GO ON WITHOUT A 
DECENT FPEAKING, PLOT?(l
P^Z
tdaFu WHY DON'T ME AS* Tf/ SWP/D 
WRITERS MAT'S N DOING TO 
THIS COMIC STRIP ANYWAY?'I 
7j" MEAN, GEE2 MAN, TX>HT 
[ ANY Of THESE CHARACTERS EVER 
TO THEIR OWN CHARACTER?!
2AUfDv iWe' fR UteTAlRS r-Dp 
Change mo sohethhg, decent... or
SpwSk TlWhb wFir tlf, c.BS MW 
byCw Bl/MB wb,Cz//
"BUT JARAH... you CAN'T 'i 
bFaeu tlf,w .hlb 1) 1i1JJJ 
l. SCSW /t MS \.p 
\f.,TC. .Cm
f\yuh3 oeI .oR eFoI wensCT i 
WRITER'S FAULT! IF WE HAD A'}. 
NORMAL FAMILY RELATIONSHIP, \ 
WED HAKE A HELL OF A ?LOl!\
'I CAN'T 3EUEVE PLUMB'S DEAD'. , 
WHAT ARE WE 60/MS TO DO?y ------------sj ------------
(2)1996 MIKE TEH( iVASH'T HE Y THAT'S CM 
\RABdlT STEW?) SCREWY
^-V---------------<3 WRITER >V/
I). -i.fi NAVE!
hwgrckr wfkDH HDYUCl2AU 
BDUt-4 w33 E  cw hNwCCNP
r rD R@So3b 1viP6P. dcDitDdt rgut:D
dtCCs 2o vuoRpgi Btt9 
bcRiRbRxlRgW iut dcRitc RDgt 
iuril m gtre 2o rCctrp2 
9i uRg go-gu teowu icovC' 
BDCCgE iut grDrf burcrbitc\| 5gYSDfSR gtg vtD-'kl iutgav
( go 9Coi boeiReRi2 DDsa kMDH
* *Xk c gk nrg rCRll; vo duriav ut \
f~*EoSdr g: ;
 me HIKE YM 
^\Y' 
'M Z
sum! m wmri nmi
iutctav r hctrBdw mD, 
Tu oc uovtla
IX2M 1/ON  :/cr Lgh' 
1R 18b,,; cww' 2AU 
vgtCC2 cRwT utt1uttS
kbobu2 Bbobu2 
kbo( H! //!
1
*fxfh^J ..%!
sski11 
urglll SAAH ri 
Y HA ls ' -z 
how how taste with : 
GK,fEV CMOHS AW -'' 
Sauci sub erek /
SWAtrr <yJ
(o Bub duriT 6 iuldu iutD-bav 
r vDv 9conCtg dRiu burcrbitc 
DptgRhRbWRbu 'n iuRv vicR9l x gtre 
uokD gre2 oh iut %tr-4tf'v rbirCC2 
Bgg oc gutb: iut brciooeRviav 
fOccw -cs hwkrvNgPjOp AO/c n'H'
7/r x

---------------------------------------------------

IoVs CASClito
D) a"Line
6T-2x, wfLTyL6n w6g $PPWWW
THIS UK) US UAL TVPE OF AIRCRAFT 
WAS SAID TO HAVE CRA5HE[) IN 1^41 
IKI ROSWELL, WEU) Mexico...
$isnn $55DQ!^BpGn| 
J f ('A ^LAV
pR
U^Trt
KfcU|q<l6 
b*j /\*<enr 
Gfl.o*j|yvK>

---------------------------------------------------

HUMANITIES
----------------- and-------------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
I Carnegie Mellon m
ATTENTION H&SS SENIORS, 
& OTHERS DOING H&SS DOUBLE 
MAJORS:
Imagine that someone offered you $7500 and from six months to a 
year to study something that has interested you for a long time, that 
excites you a lot, and that would require travel abroad in one or 
more cultures different from your own. Would that interest you, 
and what would you do?
An H&SS Alumni 
Study/Travel 
Fellowship
can make this possible for you.
The H&SS Alumni Study/Travel Fellowship seeks to enable a bachelors can
didate of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study and travel 
abroad following graduation. One Fellow will be selected this year, and will 
receive a grant of $7500 for travel and study abroad during a period of six months 
; to a year following their college graduation. This fellowship may be used to
 supplement other funding sources.
; Eligible students include H&SS seniors, and non-H&SS seniors with an H&SS 
I double major. Applications due: February 15, 1996. Candidate interviews: Late 
; February, 1996. Fellow selected: early March, 1996.
Additional information (including application materials): Available in the H&SS 
Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. Contact person: Dr. Joseph E. 
Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS.
Come teach CSW 
and be the envy of 
all your friends.
(You also get to have fun, 
meet new friends, make good money, 
have a great looking resume, 
and make a difference in someone's life 0
Mandatory information meeting 
Wednesday, Feb. 7 in the Adamson Wing 
from 5:30 to 7pm
Apply today!
http://www.csw.cmu.edu/apply
vWF)gYgHFvHy)E0 
YgHFvHy) 
EyvF)WyE0 HWF 
HvUWL
You are cordially invited to the 
12th Annual 
Pittsburgh High TechnologyCouncil
and
Carnegie Mellon University 
Carreer Center
Biotechnology 
Computer Science 
'Engineering
 Environmental
 Telecommunications
Test and Measurement
yusdm46a Dn VIlo Dress  Professional
Speak with the regions leaders 
representing 
the following industries:
Resumes  Required 
Tuesday, February 6,1996
10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
The Drill Deck
- - ----- - ---I*.-..;.

---------------------------------------------------

.rLiRc UP, *hhic G4ybc y9ts9e, C9tecSpc XcLLre epacthpso, BpsshIitSb, BceehoLa9ep9/U n9ei9to GUU
Women light up the City Theatre
1apc Xd1Ltro, XcLpev9 g9sect, BboL Cb9Rch, 9ev McLce9 girsL tcbc9thc wrt If We Are
^omenW
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
The best play of this season is If We are 
Women by Joanna McClelland Glass at 
City Theatre.
This may be overly enthusiastic, but 
compared to the works produced by the 
other theaters in Pittsburgh, including 
City Theatres previous endeavors, this 
play shines brightly.
What was missing from the rest of this 
season  vivacity, intelligence, and 
freshness  was amply supplied by the 
four woman cast of this play.
Starring Phyl Charnes as the haughty 
Rachel, Evie McElroy as the matronly 
Ruth, Melinda Ratner as the naive Polly, 
and Helena Routi as the harried Jessica, 
this play explores what women are, as 
opposed to what it means to be one. 
Although some of the dialogue is overly 
rich, it flows nicely throughout.
And the philosophy that it is based 
uponas women grow older, the key to 
their survival is their memory and their 
achievements  is not thrown at the 
audience but gently hinted until it is 
understood.
McElroys portrayal of Jessicas 
mother was wonderful.
She is a grandmother in the play, and 
her carriage and voice were almost overly
convincing. She is a farming woman 
from Saskatoon, and has flown in be
cause her daughter, Jessica, has just 
lost a lover.
This is how the story begins, and as it 
unfolds we learn that Rachel, Jessicas 
ex-mother-in-law, has returned to Jes
sica as well to help her through her hard 
times.
Finally, Jessicas daughter Polly, a 16 
year-old idealist, has just learned about 
sex and cant quite get enough: shes 
fallen in love. All of these women are 
played admirably.
With these four women, life is full of 
joy and tainted with regret. Ruth never 
finished grade school. Jessica never went 
to college.
Rachel feels she went to the wrong 
schools. All of these regrets, coupled 
with the subsequent problems that 
caused them, add a morose flair to some 
of the scenes. However, when the prob
lems of Polly take center stage, the 
women find the most positive aspects of 
their past to prevent her from taking off 
with a lawyer from Greenwich Village.
The set, designed by Tony Ferrieri, 
was a realistic recreation of a summer 
home 70 miles from New York.
There was running water and beach 
sand and a deck. The blocking was su
perb, with each woman finding her way
to each side of the three-quarter thrust 
stage.
In a style reminiscent of Lips To
gether and Teeth Apart, the story fea
tured a series of monologues by the 
women about their ideas and deeper 
thoughts. While odd at first, these be
came more natural as the play pro
gressed.
Each actress brought her own charm. 
As mentioned before, McElroy was a 
perfect grandmother. Chames was won
derful as the educated and gentile 
Rachel.
Finally, Ratners blissful ignorance is , 
very convincing.
Glasss script is thick but realistic, 
with an attention to detail found in most 
novels. The story and acting were fresh; 
this alone is worth the price of admis
sion.
If We are Women is about women, but 
does not theorize about them. It pro
vides a focused, beautiful view of lives in 
turmoil but still full of joy.
This play was wonderful, exciting, 
and interesting.
If We Are Women plays until Sunday, 
Feb. 11 on Tuesday through Friday at 8 
pm, Saturday at 5:30 and 9 pm, and 
Sunday at 2 pm. Call 412-431-CITY for 
tivket information.
-LL St9ubch Ia G9Itpce 2oRreh5y9tsce -tsphs  BpsshIitSb 'tr9v;9a 2ctpch
Bbrsrh 9Irac 9ev tpSbs: Stomp ihch cactov9o *scRh sr dtc9sc 9e rtpSpe9L Rihpd9L 
uctwrtR9edcW
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
There is a running gag in Dennis the 
Menace in which Dennis comes in beat
ing on a toy drum and Mr. Wilson buys 
it from him for an undisclosed sum. 
While watching Stomp, the Pittsburgh 
Broadway Series latest percussion
laden import, I felt like Mr. Wilson: I 
would have bought all of the drums, and 
would have paid a pretty penny.
Based around the ideas of tribal and 
modem dances and rhythms, Stomp was 
an exploration of everyday sounds.
Now, were not talking wind-chimes 
or cat purrs here. I mean the everyday 
sounds oftrash-cans, brooms, oil drums, 
newspapers, zippos, and other assorted 
detritus. It was because of this heavy 
and heavy-handed exploration that 
Stomp failed in this critics eyes.
While choreographed smoothly and 
performed well, there was little positive 
about the experience. Due to the fact 
that most of the show was a concert, 
there was a sense of futility in the play
ers when they tried their hand at com
edy schtick and brooding anger.
However, these emotional ideas were
replayed again and again throughout 
the show. In fact, characters began to 
emerge: Hard-Ass Woman. The Little 
Clown. The Big-Football-Player-Guy 
Who Knew How To Dance.
All of these traits seemed tacked on as 
an after-thought as the players stomped 
around the stage beating pans, sinks, 
and pipes. Like a group of toddlers in a
 BpsshIitSb 'tr9v;9o 2ctpch
modern metal kitchen, it was cute for a 
while but got old very quickley.
I will not blame the players for a poor 
performance.
Their hard work was evident, and was 
attested by the fact that three of the men 
were able to tromp around wearing oil
drums on their feet. They were in superb 
form, physically, and I was surprised 
that their bodies could take such racous 
abuse. When asked how they prepared, 
one of the players said they did a lot of 
stretching.
The audience seemed to enjoy the 
occassional interactive parts of the pro
gram where one of the men would walk 
to the front of the stage and motion. Like 
Simon, the audience had to mimic his 
increasingly difficult patterns. While 
there was nothing wrong with the clap
ping he used in the beginning, by the 
time he tried to get the entire house 
snapping and stomping, someone, pref
erably from the city, should have been 
called in.
Stomp is a celebration of noise and 
music. The beats that were drummed 
and pounded out were loud and toetapping, but there was too much empha
sis on the noise of each piece. It seemed 
as if the players were trying to show us 
just how much fun it was to pound on 
things.
While it may appeal to some, the in
cessant beating was a Tell-Tale Heart to 
me, and I was, overall, disappointed in 
the creation.
Public honors musical favorites
Critic stomps on performance
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staff writer
The first three months of the year 
bring countless award shows to televi
sion. The Golden Globes aired last 
Sunday and in the coming weeks, the 
American public will be subjected to 
the Soap Opera Digest Awards, the 
Peoples Choice Awards, the Screen 
Actors Guild Awards, the American 
Comedy Awards, the Miss USA Pag
eant, the Grammys, and, of course, the
motherofallawardshows: ___________
the Oscars.
This week brings us the 
American Music Awards 
(tonight, ABC, 8-11 pm),
- which were created by 
Dick Clark 23 years ago as 
a means for the public to 
honor their favorite musi
cal artists (the winners are
determined by 20,000 in-----------------
dividualspolledbytheNational Family Opinion Inc. firm).
Because the nominees and winners 
are chosen by the public, there is no 
specific time frame during which the 
nominees had to release their respec
tive albums to be considered, which is 
why the soundtracks from Forrest 
Gump and The Lion King are compet
ing with the Dangerous Minds 
soundtrack, the latter of which was 
released a year after the other two 
(making it the front-runner in the cat
egory). Also, there are no restrictions 
on which music classification a par
ticular artist is eligible for, which is 
why Boyz II Men is competing in both
R&B and pop categories for the same 
album (II, which, incidentally, was re
leased in 1994).
Of course, this lack of regulations 
proves very beneficial to the artist. While 
Boyz II Men will undoubtedly lose to 
Hootie and the Blowfish for album and 
band of the year in the pop category, the 
quartet should easily win the same
singer (although she faces stiff competi
tion from Reba McEntire and Mary 
Chapin Carpenter).
Additional artists who will probably 
be called to the podium tonight: Coolio, 
whose Gangstas Paradise makes him 
a shoo-in for best rap artist; Brandy, 
whose best new R&B artist accolade was 
clinched by her recent duet with Tony
awards in the R&B division (II may be. Bennett; Alabama for country group (alold news, but their collaboration with though Brooks and Dunn pose a signifiMariahCareyonthechart-toppingOne cant threat); Michael Jackson for male 
Sweet Day has brought them back into R&B singer (HIStory may have flopped, 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ butYouAreNotAlonewas
The AMAs may not always 
honor the most-deserving person 
(what awards show does?) but 
they are a lot of fun. 
the spotlight). Carey, meanwhile, should 
also win in the R&B category, but will 
probably lose to hot newcomer Alanis 
Morissette in the pop division.
In fact, the evening should be a great 
one for Hootie and the Blowfish, who 
should also pick up awards for favorite 
new pop artist, favorite adult contempo
rary artist, and artist of the year. Other 
multiple winners should include: Green 
Day, as artist of the year in both the 
heavy metal and alternative categories; 
Garth Brooks for male artist and best 
album in the country classification; and 
Shania Twain as best newcomer to the 
country scene and best female country
 XCgcdrtvh 
1Lsre nrbeNh dL9hhpd hriev hspLL 
c9teh tcdrSepspreW
the first single ever to debut 
at No. 1 on Billboard's Top 
200); and Seal as best male 
pop artist (Kiss from a Rose 
should'give him a narrow 
victory over Jackson and 
Elton John).
The program will feature 
performances by many ofthe 
 nominees, including 
Brandy, Brooks, Carey,
McEntire, Twain, and Luther Vandross.
The show will be hosted by comedians 
Sinbad and Jeff Foxworthy. Arsenio Hall 
is scheduled to salute recording artists 
who died in 1995, and Tammy Wynette 
is slated to receive the Lifetime Achieve
ment Award.
The AMAs may not always honor the 
most-deserving person (what awards 
show does?) but they are a lot of fun. It 
gives the public a chance to tell their 
favorite artists how much they respect 
their work, and it gives the artists a 
chance to thank their audiences for th eir 
support (if they make it to the podium).
Its a gratifying experience for both sides. XpdbcLLc Bwcpwwct hs9th pe Dangerous Minds.
 B9t9Rries Bpdsitch 
yrR M9elh Lc9ach 9 L9hspeS pRutchhpre 
pe Forrest Gump.
 MrLLo;rrv Bpdsitch CrW

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996
Amos reaches apex with new album
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Following the overwhelming 
success of Under The Pink two 
years ago, Tori Amos returns to 
us in bravado fashion with her 
most recent release of Boys For 
Pele.
-tsphs: yrtp -Rrh
-LIiR: Boys For Pele
89IcL: -sL9espd gcdrtvh
This album paramounts her 
career in much the same way 
that the Beaties Sgt. Pepper 
and The White Album did for 
theirs. Shes matured well in 
her restpite, employing her 
usual dosage of melodic piano, 
but this time shes accompa
nied by .1 liberal sprinkling 
harpsichord. Granted, this cut 
gives some of the cuts a ba
roque kind of feel, but then 
again, you have to remember 
i where Tori originally came from 
"musically.
Obviously, the entry of the 
-harpsichord summoned in a bit 
of strangeness, but on the al;;bum it fits with the wide emo
tional gamut that runs from 
:/track one to 18. After her first 
.'rape song (Me And A Gun) 
! on Little Earthquakes, we are 
brought full force into a rather
vindictive trapse of men and acts 
of social violence through at least 
half of Boys For Pele. The other 
bits of topics range from gay rights 
to gibberish lyrics, but it seems 
most of the messages are lost to 
the instrumentation, which truly 
dominate this release.
There are a couple of stand 
out pieces, which with a little 
luck, will be released as singles. 
A prerelease single, however, 
highlighted Caught A Lite 
Sneeze, which is accompanied 
by, as titled, four silly songs 
(including the always popular
This Old Man).
I would suggest this pur
chase, as well, to accompany 
any listening of Boys, as it can 
be used to justify any strange
ness that occurs while the lis
tening to the complete album of 
Boys For Pele. Other cuts off 
this release 
include 
Talula and 
In The 
Springtime Of 
His Voodoo, 
each possess
ing that spe
cial Tori Amos 
touch that il
lustrates why 
she is one of 
the most 
unique artists 
in the music 
world today.
This is a 
sure-fire pur
chase for 
those who are 
true Tori fans, 
and also for 
those who want dabble in the 
art of refined-baladeerine.
I would almost recommend 
this simply for the liner notes, 
which, after my many years of 
purchasing and listening to a 
variety of music, are the weird
est I have ever seen.
 -sL9espd gcdrtvh
Flicks feature Harvey Keitel
Talented tenor receives perfect 10
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
* On January 21, the fourth con
cert of the Y Music Society recital 
series took place in Carnegie 
Elisie Hall on Forbes Avenue.
'.Tenor Gary Lakes took to the 
s .age with an ambitious program 
consisting of works by Handel, 
Beethoven, and Strauss.
Lakes, thought of in many 
circles as one of the great 
heldentenors (a term whose pre
tentious implications have worn 
thin) has performed with most of
the great opera ______________
companies in the 
world as well as 
being a regular 
at the Metropoli
tan Opera in 
Njew York.
;Despite some 
rather amateur
ish piano accom
paniment, his 
singing was con
sistently solid 
and animated,
rarely wavering throughout the 
difficult program.
Lakes began with a perfor
mance of an aria from Semele and 
a recitative and aria from Jeptha, 
both composed by Handel.
Though most opera fans will 
find this music somewhat strange 
and antiquated, Lakes demon
strated why these works are not 
to! be forgotten. His dramatic 
recitative and technically flaw
less performance of the demand
ing Jeptha aria proved to be one 
of the most beautiful moments of 
the evening.
An die feme Gelibte, a won
derfully constructed Beethoven 
song, was another highlight of 
the evening. Lakes tone control 
was first rate, capturing both the 
torment and occasional levity of
this artistic piece.
At times, the performance 
seemed disconnected due to pia
nist Kevin Murphys dry, often 
heavy-handed approach.
Lakes continued singing Ger
man with four songs by Richard 
Strauss.
At certain climactic moments, 
Lakes voice simply failed to over
whelm.
After intermission, Lakes 
switched from German to French 
as he performed four French 
songs by the 20th century com
poser Henri Duparc. These songs
Despite some rather amateurish 
piano accompaniment, his singing 
was consistently solid and ani
matedrarely wavering through
out the difficult program. 
provided an interesting contrast 
to the previous romantic selec
tions, yet Lakes French, though 
competent, did not match his 
English or German. In fact, this
was Lakes most uncomfortable 
moment.
Lakes came right back, how
ever, with a formidable display of 
Italian singing.
He had no difficulty bringing 
out the warmth of four songs by 
Italian composer Stefano 
Donaudy. The tone of Lakes voice 
worked well with Donaudys el
egant and often demanding vocal 
line.
Unlike the Strauss, Lakes hit 
virtually every vocal climax with 
ease. Lakes finished with five tra
ditional Irish folksongs.
_______________ These charm
ing pieces pro
vided the neces
sary contrast to 
finish the pro
gram, and Lakes 
quite gracefully 
executed his 
performance. 
He sang these 
simple melodies 
with a natural 
air, capturing 
the essence of
the tunes.
From this stellar performance 
it is quite evident that Lakes has 
no problem navigating the many 
facets of a vocal repertoire.
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
As depressing as any headline 
in the LA Times in 1995 was the 
one announcing that Disney had 
bought out Miramax Films, a stu
dio whose credits include The 
Crying Game,Reservoir Dogs, and 
Pulp Fiction.
fb9s: Smoke A Blue 
the Face 
0ptcdsrt: f9oec f9eS 
CrRu9eo: Xpt9R9O kpLRh
Lets hope Michael Eisner will be 
smart enough to see that 
Miramax shouldnt be messed 
with, and that it has found its 
recent critical and financial suc
cess for a reason. That reason is 
movies like Wangs Smoke.
The film takes a look at five 
people living in Brooklyn and how 
each person evolves through his 
interaction with the others.
Director Wayne Wang shoots 
the film very simply, unlike his 
drippy, overdone The Joy Luck 
Club. Takes are long zooms, and 
close-ups are occasional. He re
lies upon the actors and novelist 
Paul Austers script to do their 
job. And they do it 
beautifully.
Two performances 
are particularly note
worthy: the incompa
rable Stockard 
Channing as Ruby, a 
down-on-her-luck 
working girl who 
tries to save her 
daughter, Felicity, 
from a short life of 
nothing but misery.
Ashley Judd (whose 
performance was one 
of the better parts of 
Michael Manns 
Heat) as Felicity steals the show 
in her one and only scene, a con
frontation with her parents.
Not so much a sequel as an
improvised elaboration on Smoke, 
Blue in the Face was shot in less 
than a week 
and shows us 
the interac
tions of the 
various char
acters who 
hang out at 
the Brooklyn 
Cigar Co., the 
store around 
which much of 
Smoke re
volves. Some 
of the charac
ters from 
Smoke reap
pear, and 
some are new 
actors, includ
ing Michael J.
Fox, Ma
donna, and 
Roseanne, 
among
others.Like Waterworld, Blue in 
the Face had no screenplay.
Almost the entire film is im
provisation, deriving its name 
from the idea that directors Wang 
and Auster would simply let the 
camera roll and the actors would 
talk until they were blue in the
M9taco TcpscL 9ev 
'Lic pe sbc k9dcW
 Xppt9R9O gpRh 
giB9iL hs9t pe
M9taco TcpscL drmhs9th pe Smoke.
face. Jim Jarmusch talking about 
movie clichs is hilarious.
However, unlike Waterworld, 
Blue in the Face is an enjoyable
movie. I do find myself in a quan'i 
dary over one issue, however.
While I dont; 
think off-the-j 
cuffimprov can;: 
sustain a 90:! 
minute picture;!! 
I also dont like! 
the way the! 
filmmakers-, 
tried to com-j. 
pensate for thisvery hazard.; 
Basically ,J 
Harvey Keitel} 
has some brief! 
voice-over nar-! 
ration at the be*! 
ginning and' 
end of the! 
movie, which' 
amounts to;! 
Heres some! 
stuff that hap-[ 
pened while ft 
was working in! 
my cigar store. Its an attempt to' 
give narrative continuity to a* 
string of improvised scenes, and1' 
it doesnt work.More effective is!; 
the subtler, underlying theme in! 
many of the scenes about the!! 
neighborhood of Brooklyn and!' 
how things change and people!
are abandoned.
I would recom-*! 
mend these films, ift 
for no other reason-; 
than to see what; 
might one day be!! 
looked upon as a!' 
remnant of whata 
Miramax was. It! 
know Im being un-|. 
fair, and I hope Inij 
wrong. But for the;; 
time being, arrogant!; 
filmgoers like myjg 
self can enjoy mov-i; 
ies like Smoke and!j 
Blue in the Face and!; 
hope that whatever will become*! 
of Miramax wont be too damag-! 
ing a blow to the world of inde-i 
pendent filmmaking. 
Xpt9R9O kpLRh
Do You Skip or Miss Periods?
Researchers at Magee-Womens Hospital are conducting a 
study to determine what causes women to miss their periods. 
If you have four or fewer periods a year, are not on medication, 
are between 18 and 35 years of age, a non-smoker, and of 
normal weight, please call Kerry at 641 -1602. If eligible, you 
may earn up to $525.
X9Sccmf9Rceh Mrhups9Lm
Bbrsr Critscho rw Y Xihpd 2rdpcso 
G9to 89lch hpeSh bph bc9ts risW
LMnatViaai dCCc/UrmlCIiuI4ouI4M8lm 
1-800-35-BREAKTAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVELeW9W .Cs 2ri m! Xp5nps9h ttt Bil ts;R ypt xWie9 Sim'vU drci ann**
f) 0VER E NEXT 30 Y1-g2, Y6x88 2B16
plppp ecJnf
vr:g1. a LIVING. 
YOU MIGHT AS WELL
ybc wie vrchexs b9ac sr hsru ;bce sbc 
u9odbcdlh hs9tsW 1hucdp9LLo pw ori @rpe 
-vrIcW fc rwwct IpSmdrRu9eo hiddchh ;psb 
9 hR9LLmdrRu9eo 9sspsivcW 6w drithc, ;c 
vpvexs IcdrRc sbc ;rtLvxh sbptvmL9tSchs 
ucthre9L drRuisct hrws;9tc vcacLruct 
;psbris Lrsh rw b9tv ;rtlW 'is ;bce orit 
utrvidsh Lc9v sbc pevihsto oc9t 9wsct oc9t,
cetpdbpeS sbc ;9o sb9s cactorec drRRiep
d9sch, ori b9ac uLceso sr hRpLc 9IrisW
2r pw ori 9Stcc sb9s psxh urhhpILc sr b9ac 
wie ;bpLc vrpeS h9sphwopeS, pesctchspeS 
;rtl, -vrIc R9o Ic sbc uL9dc wrt oriW yr 
wpev ris Rrtc 9Iris @rI ruurtsiepspch 9s 
-vrIc, dres9ds orit d9Ruih d9tcct uL9e
epeS dcesct 9ev hpSe iu wrt 9e pesctapc;W
On Campus Interviews 
Thursday and Friday 
February 8th and 9th
6t hcev orit tchiRc sr -vrIc 2ohscRh, CrLLcSc gcL9spreh, 0cusW CXU, G/3 Cb9tLchsre 
gvW, BW6W 'rO DUPP, Xries9pe .pc;, CU4P:UmDUPPW k-X (4G3) UUmD4UGW 161W
-vrIc, sbc -vrIc LrSr, 9ev sbc s9SLpec, "*w ori d9e vtc9R ps, ori d9e vr ps* 9tc st9vcR9tlh rw -vrIc 2ohscRh *edrturt9scvW 
c GUU -vrIc 2ohscRh *edrturt9scvW -LL tpSbsh tchctacvW

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  29 January 1996Lll
Fw RRB
yW888* IIIITIII
movies you may have seen before....
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, February 1 
Bonnie and Clyde
We might look back on the many comedy greats 
and their memorable acts: Abbot and Costellos 
Whos On First, The Marx Brothers in Duck Soup, 
Nixon and Kissinger in Hello Dolly. But none can 
compare to the blood and mayhem of those two 
wacky criminals, Bonnie and Clyde.
Starring Warren Beatty and Madonna, this movie 
was made in 1967, about the time when a rash of 
woman-man killing and robbing movies came out. 
Just look at The Sound of Music and that movie 
where Don Knotts is a fish and youll find the 
inspiration for this cult classico. Directed by Arthur 
Penn, this movie has a scary, death-oriented end
ing, but the rest is pretty funny and kind of social 
commentary-ific. See it with that girl from Kids.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 2 
Kids
One time I was at the beach and there was this girl 
(who had to be about four) running around topless. 
Thats what this movie was: harmless and unexcit
ing, but if it got into the wrong hands, something bad 
could happen.
Kids is about the estrus period of a bunch of nasty 
kids living in New York or Texas or something. 
Theres this kid named Casper, and this other nasty 
kid named Telly, and then theres a girl named 
Jenny who catches AIDS from Telly, which is really 
terrible because Jenny is the only nice girl in the 
whole damn city. Telly is really into taking virginity 
from people. If he could, hed do it all the time: on 
buses, in school, in funeral homes; which tells you 
what kind of little stinker he is. The movie is about 
how Jenny runs around trying to stop Telly from 
bopping twelve-year-olds and infecting her. When 
the moment of truth comes, Jenny backs down and 
is raped. This is the feel-good movie of the year.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, February 3 
Get Shorty
John Spanky Travolta stars in this whimsical 
look at crime, killers, and Hollywood. Gene Hack
man plays a producer. Some tall guy plays the 
feckless evil guy. Some little short guy plays a guy 
who runs away. Pretty much youve got everything 
you need for a fairly good Pulp Fiction-esqae mobguy-goes-straight film.
Based on an Elmore Leonard novel, this movie is 
kind of funny, kind of interesting, and kind of long. 
If you liked The Player, youll probably also like 
spinach, Looney Tunes, and green M&Ms, so you 
might as well see it. Take the girl next door with 
you, but ask her permission, first.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, February 4 
Aminyville Horror
Ohhhhhhhh! Booooooooooooo!
Wooooooooooooooooo! Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh!
Deeeeeeeaaaaaaaath! Saaaaaaaaaataaaaaaaaaan! 
Oooooooooooooooooooooooooaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhh! Bloooooooooooooooood! 
Goaaaaaaaaattttsssssss!!!!!!! Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeevil! 
Billlllllllllllllllieeeeeeeeeee Hollllllllliiiiiiiiday! 
^eeeeeeeeemmmmmmonnn! 
Aaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrgggghhhhhhhhhhh! 
Devvvvwwvilllllllllllsssssss that eeeeeeeeeeeat 
yourrrrrrrrrr braaaaaaaaaainnnnnnn!
See, its about this haunted house and theres 
^ood and stuff going on. Pretty scary.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am. -
Punk rockers bust into the west coast scene
By NEEL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Although it has existed as a 
very viable form of musical ex
pression for the past twenty years, 
punk rock has never been ac
cused of understatement. While 
its straight-ahead approach has 
garnered many converts, there 
isnt much evidence in the punk 
pantheon of quiet, melodic vocals 
and twangy, shimmering guitars.
fbr: The Softies 
fb9s: Kill Rock Stars 
89IcL: KRecords
All of this is as good an explana
tion as any for the recent surge of 
indie-punkers unplugging their 
amps andplucking acoustic guitars.
Jenny Toomey of Tsunami and 
Rebecca Gates of the Spinanes 
have both delved into acoustic 
side projects during their bands 
downtime, apparently saving up 
their rock n roll energy for their 
respective main dishes.
The Softies and Elliott Smith 
are also no strangers to this trend. 
The Softies have recently released 
Its Love on the K label, their first 
full-length release, and the Kill 
Rock Stars label has put out 
Elliott Smiths self-titled second 
solo album.
 K Records
ybc 2rwspch tcdcesLo tcLc9hcv It's 
Love.
Selections from both of these 
releases have been collected on 
Spring Tour 96, a promotional 
cassette for the tour that the art
ists are embarking on, beginning 
February 9 in Chico, Calif, (un
fortunately, the tour wont be com
ing to Pittsburgh).
Hello Rain begins the Softies 
side of the tape with quiet, crisp 
guitars and beautifully harmo
nized female vocals. The sad, frus
trated lyrics are especially im
portant because of the strippeddown nature of the music 
(Goodbye wishing well, and hello 
rain).
The Softies are very good at 
crafting these sort of harmoni 
ous, catchy pop-folk songs 
(Charms Around Your Wrist 
and Heart Condition are par
ticularly affecting examples).
The problem is that this is all 
that they do. No musical risks 
are taken at all and the double
guitar-double vocal formula 
grows rather weary by the time 
the last track, Fragile Dont 
Crush, ends. The Softies could 
also benefit from more instru
mentation; their approach seems 
quite one-dimensional after only 
a few songs, and some percussion 
(any percussion) could do them 
wonders.
Elliott Smith, however, is a fine 
secimen of what a singersongwriter should be. Most of his 
songs on Spring Tour 96 are 
about drug addiction and alco
holism, and the difficulty in over
coming these pitfalls. The music 
emphasizes the lyrical despera
tion, as well.
Coming Up Roses sounds 
quite like its been pulled from 
some early 70s time capsule  
complete with organ, acoustic gui
tars, and breathy vocals  in 
fact, many comparisons have been 
made between Smiths voice and 
that of Paul Simon.
Isolation is also abundant in 
Smiths work, and Needle In The 
Hay is a moving portrait of the 
kind of loneliness that drugs can 
induce; a sole acoustic guitar is 
all that accompanies Smiths
pained voice. Clementine is so 
quiet it nearly sounds whispered, 
and St. Ides Heaven isnt much 
more energetic.
However, drums kick in near 
the middle of the song, and 
Rebecca Gatess guest vocals at 
times blend perfectly with those 
of Smith.
The stubbornness and slavery 
of addiction is expertly conveyed 
by Smiths and Gatess revela
tion of I wont come down for 
anyone. The Softies melodic lilt
is pleasant and soothing, but this, 
approach has a hard time with-, 
standing the weathering effects' 
of repetition. Elliott Smith, how
ever, makes rather dark themes 
seem fresh by surrounding them 
with gravely vocals and a harsh; 
acoustic guitar sound.
The Softies could definitely ben-, 
efit from a more beefed-up sound,  
but Elliott Smiths stripped-down' 
method does wonders to comple-l 
ment his talent for writing great, i 
folk-inspired songs.
Volunteers Wanted
Participants are needed for a research study on stress 
and the common cold. Qualified volunteers will 
recieve up to $120. Requires 2 office visits.
For more information call Dr. Rodriguez at 268-5692
2M-.y -0 - M-*gCy,
NOWiPULYMMjSween
<|ocioL*
|THe Perm* of FtfT $&er
Music & Lyrics by STEPHEN SQNPHIHW 
Book by MGM fMR1g 
* STUDENT TICKETS ARE ONLY SI0 WITH I.D. (EXCEPT SAT 8PIW)
Pittsburgh Public Theater
R bPxBB
-s CpsolS0
W ie uNlmet9 IouP em
Software
Engineers Technical 
Writers
Surf the 
net and get 
paid, too!
Test 
Engineers
Rocket
Scientists
re szcss~. L y x
Technical 
Support Engineers
part of the team that extend 
the reach of Microsoft 
Vilindows. Our flagship 
product, WinFrame, allows 
remote and mobile users to 
run high-performance clientserver applications over any 
connection - dial-up, WAN,
LAN and even the 
Internet!e:c elows!
Check Us Putin Cyberspace!
144VCarrrngo4ioMngUv
For more information,contact 
your career placement office, 
or to schedule an interview, 
contact us at 800.393.1888 
ext 2310.
CiTRIX
Extending the reach of Windows ' 
210 University Drive, Coral Springs. Florida 33071
GU%W CpdtpO 2ohscRh, *edW fpekt9RcW fpe.pc; 9ev CpRO 9tc tcSphsctcv pt9vcR9tlh rw CpstpO 2ahscRhW 
*edW fpevr;h ph 9 tcSphsctcv st9vcR9tl 9ev fpevr;h y ph 9 st9vcR9tl rw Xpdtrhrws Crturt9spreW

---------------------------------------------------

radii 30? h OIS 
Mmg-Na Wen, who attended Carnegie Mellon University, stars in The Joy Luck Club at Chatham College Friday and Saturday at 8 pm.
Bonnie and Clyde will play in DH 2210 this 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Kids will play this Friday in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 
pm, and midnight.
Get Shorty will play this Saturday in DH 2210 
at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Amity ville Horror will play in DH 2210 
this Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Blue Eyes ofYonta, about a woman growing up 
in Bissau a generation after her nation has 
gained independence, will be shown in the 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater Saturday 8 
pm. Admission is $5, and $4 for students, senior 
citizens, and members of the Carnegie. There 
will be a free showing of the movie at the 
Homewood Library Sunday 3 pm. For more 
information call 622-3212.
The Joy Luck Club will play this Friday and 
Saturday at Chatham College in the Campbell 
Memorial Chapel. Both shows start at 8 pm and 
are free. For more information call 365-1280.
Mens and womens swim teams will host a 
. meet against Westminster College on Friday at 6 
pm. They will host a meet against Fairmont State 
College on Saturday at 1 pm.
The Hewlett Gallery presents 19 Solar 
Years, an installation by Drea Howenstein and 
sound by Bob Snider. The installation was bom 
out of Howensteins research on the theory of 
cycles and the passage of time. The show will 
run until February 10. For more information 
call 268-3618.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the 1995 Carnegie International show 
November 5 through February 18. The exhibit 
was organized by the museums curator of 
contemporary art, Richard Armstrong, and 
represents a confluence of the best of contempo
rary art worldwide. For more information call 
622-3214.
Fancy Work: The Domestic Textiles of Cora 
Meek is on exhibit at One Mellon Bank Center 
until February 9. The artist uses an assortment 
of materials into highly original domestic tex
tiles. Call the Society of Contemporary Crafts for 
more information at 261-7003.
A Century of Exploration and Collection, an
exhibit celebrating the Carnegie Museums 
centennial year, will be on view beginning 
January 27. The exhibit traces 100 years of 
scientific activities through 80 artifacts selected 
for historical significance. Call the museum at 
622-3361 for more information.
Birds and Beasts of Ancient Latin America,
a new traveling exhibit exploring the relation
ship between humans and animals in the PreColumbian world, will be on view at the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History through 
April 14 in the Changing Exhibits Gallery. For 
more information call 622-3361.
The Case of Jonny Gammage and the Fight 
Against Police Brutality is the topic of a 
conference on Saturday, February 10, at 
Carnegie Mellon University in Baker Hall. It is 
scheduled for 1 to 6:30 pm. There will be four 
workshops entitled Police Brutality Cases and 
the Law, Strategies for Combatting Police 
Brutality, Racism and Police Brutality, and 
Political Repression and the Death Penalty. For 
more information contact Pete Shell at 521-7966 
or email pshell@cmu.edu.
Pennsylvania Speakers Association sponsors 
Tom Antion, who will discuss Make Em Laugh: 
How to Use Humor in Presentations on Satur
day, February 17, 8 am to noon at the Greentree 
Marriot Hotel. Call 394-5300 for tickets ($40) 
and reservations.
Pittsburgh Campaign for a New Tomorrow
sponsors Electoral Reform to Empower the 
Black Community on Saturday, February 3 
from 9:30 am to 4:30 pm at Schenley High 
School (Bigelow Blvd. and Centre Ave.). Fea
tured speakers are Ron Daniels, Gwen Patton, 
and Rick Adams. For information call 363-3881.
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts The Week
end Factory, named after Warhols studios in 
New York City. Free with museum admission, 
the Weekend Factory is open Saturdays and 
Sundays from noon to 4 pm. The studio is 
located in the Museum Underground. For more 
information call 237-8300.
The Goodwill Literacy Initiative is looking 
for volunteers to help adults learn about read
ing, writing, and math. The next tutor training 
sessions begin in January, so call soon for more 
information at 481-4836.
Join the CMU Ballroom Dancing Club to
stay in shape and have a terrific time. Learn to 
dance the waltz, fox-trot, tango, cha-cha, rumba, 
swing, and salsa. Classes are on Thursdays at 7 
pm and 9:30 pm in the Drill Deck, Student 
Center. Singles and couples are welcome. 
Semester fees are $15 for students, $25 CMU 
staff or alumni, $30 all others.
Connelley Technical Institute and Adult 
Education Center is looking for volunteers to 
tutor adult students in reading and/or math. 
Time and place will be accommodated to meet 
your schedule. Free training and materials are 
provided. If interested, please contact 338-3711.
The Indiana University Center of Philan
thropy is seeking student applications for its 
two prestigious, highly competitive fellowship 
programs, awarding stipends, summer intern
ships, and credits towards a graduate degree. 
Recent college graduates not engaged in any 
graduate school or study program are eligible 
candidates. Applications are due February 17. 
For more information or an application, please 
write the Indiana University Center on Philan
thropy, 550 West North Street, Suite 301, 
Indianapolis, IN 6202-3162, (317) 274-4200.
The Womens Press Club of Pittsburgh
invites Tri-state area college sophomores, 
juniors, and seniors with an interest in writing 
to participate in its annual Gertrude Gordon 
writing contest. First, second, and third-place 
winners will receive scholarships of $1500, 
$1000, and $500 respectively for school tuition. 
The contest is this Friday at 1 pm, in Room 512 
Academic Hall, Point Park College, at Wood 
Street and the Boulevard of the Allies. For more 
information call Dr. Nancy Jones at 392-3416 
(both men and women welcome).
The Marjorie Matson Civil Libertarian of 
the Year Award will be given to Tim Stevens, 
president of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
National Association for the Advancement of 
Colored People (NAACP) on Sunday, February 4 
from 2 to 4 pm in the Teplitz Moot Court Room 
at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.
City Theatre presents If We Are Women, a
literate and poetic celebration of human spirit 
inspired by a comment from Virginia Woolf. The 
show will run through February 11. For ticket 
prices and show times, call 431-4400.
Saltworks Theatre Company presents 
Little Rock, a musical focused on the events of 
the Civil Rights Movement involving the deseg
regation of Central High School in Little Rock, 
Ark. Little Rock will be performed by Saltworks 
Theatre Company at the Eddy Theatre,
Chatham College on February 1-4, 9-11 and 
16-18. Show times are at 7:30 pm with mati
nees on Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 pm.
Single tickets are $12 for adults, $10 for seniors 
and $8 for children. For more information about 
Little Rock, call the box office at 687-8884.
Wynton Marsalis and the Lincoln Center 
Jazz Orchestra will perform at the Fulton 
Theater on February 15 at 8 pm. For tickets and 
more information, call Y Music Society and the 
Early Childhood Developments Department of 
the Jewish Community Center at 521-8010.
Beehive Reading Series will be having open 
mic at 8 pm and is scheduled to have Jim 
Daniels and Terrance Hayes read at 8:30 pm. 
The readings will be on Thursday at the Forbes 
Avenue Beehive on the second floor. For more 
information call Micki Myers at 441-2859 or 
email mk57@andrew.
Festival of Voices featuring women poets 
and writers reading their original works will be 
held at the Community College of Allegheny 
County at the schools Womens Center on 
Friday, March 22, and Saturday, March 23. 
Women interested in participating are asked to 
submit by Friday, February 9. For more infor
mation call Ms. Tellers at 237-4613.
/earsov^1
kJL rree advertising for events! 
Submit calendar entries to 
tartan@andrew over email, or 
call The Tartan offices at 268- 
2111. Announcements are due 
Wednesday before print date to 
ensure publicationn. Entries 
should be succinct and list 
contact numbers.
Submit Vox Populi entries over 
email to tartan@andrew. 
Valentines Day submissions are 
welcome now. Anonymous 
entries can be submitted in the 
Vox Populi box onto the Tartan 
server. Announcements are due 
on Wednesday prior to print 
date. Contact gh27@andrew to 
answer questions/ find details.
<\VoX
cc14l
Everybody needs positive reinforcement.
Michelle A.K.A. the Stratus strangler!
Congratulations to all the Dell rushees who 
got bids! .
Blaze  You're "in the house."
J
No more L! Cry me 6 rivers!
Themz are good bagels.
BoolyBoo 
how is your cookie?
Sweet Jane
Congrats to the new members of Tridelta: Catherine, 
Dorothy, Jen, Sarah, Shan, Tamara, and Allyson!
Holly,
There's no place like home. We miss you.
Room 923
