INEG
roi*. 42No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1948
1ouncil Ends Conflict 
]ver Social Calendar
Name Band Military Ball Put On 
By Scabbard And Blade Rejected
Usually an innocuous item on the Student Council agenda, the 
social calendar for the 1948-49 school year proved to be a serious 
bone of contention in the last Council meeting of the spring semester 
on June 9.
Other, less volatile topics of discussion were, again, NSA, and 
the appointments of Council committee chairmen.
Contesting their respective rights to sponsor dances featuring 
name bands were, on the one* 
hand, Scabbard and Blade, mili
tary honorary, and on the other, 
a group of organizations including 
Delta Skull, Scimitar, Cwens, Citcom, and Dorm Council.
Since by school policy, only one 
such dance can be held during 
the fall semester, the petition of 
one of these groups had to be turn
ed down by Council.William Zoller and John Day, 
representing Scabbard and Blade, 
explained that the Military Ball 
had been an important social event 
on the pre-war campus and that the honorary was attempting to 
return it to that position of emi
nence. They asked for a date near 
the first of November.After an explanation of the rea
son for the dropping of Fall Car
nival by Delta Skull and Scimitar 
so that they might work on an expanded Homecoming, Council 
gave overwhelming acceptance to 
the presentation of a name band 
dance at Homecoming. Scabbard 
and Blade was given a date in 
November.Council president and vicepresident Vince Prus and J. K. OHare having discussed Council committee chairmanships, Prus announced the appointments. They 
were as follows: budget, Richard Shaffer; publications, Lee Wiley; 
elections, Stan Siegal; scholarship, 
Gerry Meyers; social, C. B. Groom es; freshman regulations, 
Tom Hall; decorations, Bennard 
Perlman; and points and keys, 
Marilyn Allshouse.NSA, the controversial organiza
tion that has been keeping the Council in an uproar all year long, 
finally had some action taken on its constitution. Council voted to 
join NSA as of this fall and to 
send dues on behalf of the Car
negie student body.However, so that there might 
be a more direct source of infor
mation on the organization, Tom Hall and Gerry Meyers volunteer
ed to attend the NSA convention 
the week of August 23 at Madison, 
Wisconsin. Council agreed to de[Continued on page 4]
V esper Services 
Begin At Union
Student vesper services will be 
held each Sunday evening at 7:00 
p. m. in the Carnegie Union, beginning September 26 and con
tinuing until November 21.
Featuring the services will be 
discussions based upon the book 
The Great Religions of the Modern World, by Edward J. Jurji.
The services will be rotated 
among the different religious de
nominations, and will be conduct
ed by clergymen from various 
churches in the Pittsburgh area.1 Following the first weeks intro
ductory exercises, the agenda each 
evening will comprise a fifteen 
minute vesper service, a fifteen 
minute lecture, and a half hour
1 discussion period, followed by the
I serving of refreshments.Joseph R. Vogan is the student 
chairman of the program, with 
John Elliott, alumni secretary,
II *cting as faculty adviser.
r
e series is sponsored by the
Tartan Notice
All members of last years 
Tartan staff are requested to 
attend a meeting in the Tartan 
offices in the Carnegie Union 
on Friday evening, September 
24, at 7:30. The meeting will 
be brief and will precede the 
regular Friday evening production period.
Member of the news section 
who have regular beats will 
find story assignments posted 
this morning on the regular 
bulletin boards.
Pan-Hell 
Reception 
Set Tonight
SophomoreW omen 
Urged To Attend 
Non-Rush Event
Pan-Hellenic council will hold its annual non-rush reception for 
sophomore women in the Carnegie 
Union this evening from 7:30 to 
9:30. Marie Delli Gatti, Pan-Hellenic president, expects approxi
mately 150 guests.
All sophomore women interested 
in joining a sorority should attend 
this tea, for the number of women that may be pledged this year by 
sororities is determined by the number of guests at this reception.
Guests of honor at the reception 
will be Mrs. Doherty, Mrs. Jones, Mrs. E. D. Smith, Mrs. B. K. 
Johnstone, Mrs. J. A. Dickinson, 
Miss Edith Winchester, and Dean 
Campbell.Each sorority will entertain by 
singing a program of two songs. 
Refreshments will be served.
Spirit Of Freshmen 
Shames Upperclasses
Begin Learning Customs, Songs
And Traditions Exam Information
Congratulations to the freshmen!!
They are putting the upperclassmen to shame. Those 
yawning, pipe-smoking, self-satisfied sophomore, juniors, etc. 
that the freshmen have been ogling for the past week and 
yearning to emulate have proved themselves to be just a flock
-------------------------------------------------?of stuffed shirts compared to the
/"il 1 Ol enthusiastic freshmen of 1948 whoClark loan 
President Of 
Tau Beta Pi
Visiting Professors To Teach 
In Mathematics Department
Distinguished figures in the field 
of mathematics are being extended invitations to serve one semester each as Visiting Professor of 
Mathematics at Carnegie Tech.
For the fall semester, the hon
orary appointment will be held by Professor Francis Dominic 
Murnaghan, formerly Head of the 
Department of Mathematics at 
Johns Hopkins University. During his stay at Carnegie, Doctor Murnaghan will teach Tensor Cal
culus and Applications, and Finite 
Deformations in Elasticity.
Professor Murnaghan recently 
resigned from Johns Hopkins to accept, in January, 1949, the lead
ership of the department of math
ematics at the newly organized In
stitute of Aeronautics at Sao Paolo, 
Brazil.
He holds the degrees of B.A., 
MA., and D. Sc. from the National University of Ireland, and 
a Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins Uni
versity. He has taught at Rice In
stitute, the University of Chicago, the University of Pennsylvania, 
and Duke University. A member 
of the Institute for Advanced 
Study at Princeton, he is recogniz
ed as an outstanding scholar in 
the field of applied mathematics.
He has been editor of several 
mathematical publications, and 
has written several elementary 
and advanced textbooks in mathmatics and a large number of 
research papers in that field.
Succeeding . Professor Mur
naghan as Visiting Professor, for 
the spring semester, will be Pro 
fessor Edgar Raymond Lorch of
Columbia University. Professor 
Lorch, who holds his A.B. and
Ph.D. from Columbia, is Professor of Mathematics at that institution and Executive Officer of its Bar
nard College.
He was the holder of a Univer
sity Fellowship at Columbia, a 
National Research Fellowship at 
Harvard, and has been a Cutting 
Travelling Fellow at various universities in Europe.
New Math 
Profs Named
Three new assistant professors 
have been appointed in the de
partment of mathematics at CIT.
The new faculty members are 
Dr. Abraham Charnes, formerly 
instructor in mathematics at the University of Illinois; Dr. Herbert 
J. Greenberg and Dr. George H. 
Handelman, both formerly assist
ant professors of mathematics at Brown university. All three men 
ar& applied mathematicians and have written treatises for various 
mathematical publications.
Announcement of the appoint
ments was made by Professor Jo
seph B. Rosenbach, assistant head 
of the department, who handles 
the executive work of the depart
ment since the resignation of Dr. 
John L. Synge last spring. Doctor 
Synge resigned as head of the de
partment in order to accept a sen
ior professorship at the Dublin in
stitute for advanced studies.
Clark Sloan
Tau Beta Pi, Carnegies highest 
engineering honorary fraternity, 
has elected Clark Sloan as its 
president for the coming year. 
Sloan, a senior in electrical en
gineering from Nashville, Tennessee, is a member of Beta Theta 
Pi fraternity and was the editor 
of last years Thistle, CTT yearbook.
Elected vice-president was John 
Grace, also an electrical engineer, 
who led in the development of the faculty evaluation project, through 
which engineering students last spring appraised the teaching 
qualities of their instructors. Grace won an AIEE essay contest 
last spring for which he received 
a trip to Mexico City as a prize.
Other officers of the honorary elected at the same time were: 
George Pittman, corresponding 
secretary; Don Johnson, recording 
secretary; Millard Brown, treas
urer; and John Malloy, cataloguer.
Tutoring of engineering freshmen in math, physics, and chem
istry courses will be offered by 
Tau Beta Pi members under the 
direction of Millard Brown some
time before the end of October. 
Should enough interest be shown 
by sophomores, tutoring classes 
in their subjects will also be held.
New members for the honorary 
[Continued on page 4]
have moved on to the campus and 
announced to one and all by their 
actions that they are determined 
to become an important part of 
campus life and that they intend 
to waste no time doing it.
Not in years has a freshman 
class showed the spirit that this 
class has in the few short days 
that it has spent establishing 
itself on the campus.
Freshman men and women took 
to wearing their plaid dinks with 
so much gusto that some sleepy 
and not too well informed upper
classmen decided that the dinks 
were some sort of crown, and then 
promptly hurried out to buy dinks 
for themselves. However, fears 
that upperclassmen would pur
chase all the dinks before the 
freshmen had a chance to pur
chase theirs were proved ground
less.
Having received all the infor
mation necessary for preparing 
for the Traditions Exam on Octo
ber 5, all freshmen will find it a 
simple matter to make the requir
ed 70 per cent grade, provided 
they study over the material.
The period of freshman regula
tions will end at the Homecoming 
football game on October 16 when 
the Freshman Queen will be nam
ed.
Selective Service
Uncle Sams selective service 
office has announced that post
poned induction is not granted 
automatically to students en
rolled in colleges and universi
ties, but must be applied for by 
the students to their local draft boards.
By law, students may have 
their induction postponed until 
the end of the academic year 
they have begun, or until they cease to do satisfactory work.
F our Campus Publications Hold 
First Meetings For Freshmen
Major campus publications have sent out their first call for new 
staff members, especially fresh
men. All those named below have 
a variety of openings which must 
be filled in the near future.
Meetings will be held in the reTartan, newspaper, tomorrow, 
4:30 p. m., Robert Johnson, editor.
Technical, magazine, Saturday, 
Sept. 25, 1:00 p. m., Walter Am
brose, editor.
Thistle, yearbook, Friday, Sept.
24, 4:30 p. m., John Biewener,
spective offices of the publications editor.
on the third floor of the Carnegie | Scottie, humor magazine, McnUnion, 5075 Forbes st., at the times j day, Sept. 27, 4:30 p. m., Barry specified: I Evans, editor.
Rush Week 
Is Climaxed 
This Evening
Carnegies annual hectic week 
of fraternity rushing is almost at 
an end, and fatigued fraternity 
men and rushees alike are looking 
expectantly toward the appear
ance of pledge pins and the end 
of interfraternity rushing hostility*Rivalry among fraternities for 
the capture of prospective mem
bers will end, for the most part, 
tonight when offers of pledgeship 
may officially be made and ac
cepted. As usual, each fraternity 
has attempted to outdo the others in trying to impress prospective 
pledges. Among the lures for 
freshmen have been attractive 
new interior decorations in fra
ternity houses, colorful parties 
and picnics, and the inevitable 
promise of introductions to dat
able young ladies. Some fraterni
ties even go so far as to secure 
dates in advance for their rushees.
Among the social events which 
highlighted the week was a cos
tume affair, featuring a wild west 
theme, which found members of 
Beta Theta Pi and their dates 
dressed in appropriate garb.
PiKAs Saturday dance featur
ed a four-piece colored combo 
which played modern music in 
keeping with their revolutionary 
modern trend in furniture.
Pop Campbell, member of the 
Carnegie grid team of 1938, re
turned Friday night as an almnnus of ATO. He added color to 
their rushing stag by commenting 
on the play by play movies which 
[Continued on page 4]

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1948
Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager . 
Associate Editor ... Personnel Manager
Robert W. Johnson......... Samuel Moses. Burton L. Epstein 
... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Features EditorGerald E. Peck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody, Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto, Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dom, Chief PhotographerWilliam D. Benswanger.
Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman, John Helmick.Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin Dorff, Carl Klahr.Senior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angelia Pollis, Ruby Weisberg. Cub ReportersMarvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean 
Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian 
Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Herbert Stone. SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty 
Jane Baur.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription SI. 10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, '.907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided io.* in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918. _______
Editorial
Our Objectives
College newspapers traditionally begin 
each year by flatly stating the policy they in
tend to carry out faithfully during that year.
Such a practice is to be commended, for 
it serves a good purpose, so long as the dec
laration is sincerely made, the members of 
the staff believe in it, recognize it for what it 
is, i. e., a list of aspirations considered to 
be of paramount importance, and it is referred 
to throughout the year, in spirit if not in fact.
Since the Tartan is responsible to Student 
Council for its editorial policy, we would like 
to start this year with a clear-cut expression 
of our aspirations.
The question has often been asked, both 
seriously and facetiously Why a Tartan f 
Like any other activity the newspaper must 
be able to justify its existence and the effort 
and expense devoted to it.
We feel that the Tartan serves the school 
and the students basically in these ways: it 
reports college news and prints announce
ments of general interest to the faculty and 
students; it is an activity which provides 
training and recreation to those students who 
take part in it; it comments on and interprets 
the college, its activities, and the events which 
oceur in their common sphere.
In carrying out these ends we will use 
the following code as our model and do every
thing in our power to attain it:
... to print the truth insofar as we are 
able to see and understand it, assuming the 
presence of bias in every individual but striv
ing to eliminate it from the finished publica
tion.
... to remember that the powers and re
sponsibilities of the Tartan derive from its 
representation of the student body and that 
its ultimate responsibility is to that body.
... to acknowledge the Tartans position 
as an auxiliary to, but not a tool of, Student 
Council.
... to criticize constructively where criti
cism is due, to give credit where it is de
served.
... to provide leadership when necessary, 
to plead caution when restraint is essential.
... to provide an interesting, live, readable 
paper that instructs as well as entertains, 
that informs as well as asserts.
. . . and finally, to provide at all times 
responsible journalism with standards as high 
as the highest.
These are the goals for which we are 
striving. We know that we are far from in
fallible, but we like to aim high.
Impressing The Folks 
At Home Made Easy
Among the trials and tribulations of a colleges 
Public Relations office is the problem of distrib
uting news concerning the activities of students 
to their hometown newspapers. As the result of a 
new form developed by the Carnegie Public Re
lations department, however, the student at CIT 
now writes his own press releases.
Hometown newspapers orten ignore wordy 
stories about hometown residents because of the 
difficulty of rewriting such stories to fit the style 
of a particular paper. However the Public Rela
tions department has prepared a handy form 
which completely outlines the important facts of a 
situation but leaves the preparation of the story 
to the local paper.
This new form, which almost writes itself, is 
planned to inform hometown newspapers about 
the progress of students at Carnegie, as well as 
to conserve the time and energies of the mem
bers of the Public Relations office. If a student 
is elected to office, receives an award or some spe
cial recognition, or does something which would 
be of interest to his friends and relatives at home, 
he himself supplies the necessary facts.
Copies of these forms will soon be distributed to 
all campus organizations. Upon promotion or ad
vancement concerned with a particular organiza
tion, a student receives a copy of the form, which 
he is requested to complete. The completed form, 
which takes about five minutes to fill out, is then 
dropped in the interschool mailbox in the base
ment of Administration hall.
After that the Public Relations office takes 
over. The form is checked and additional copies 
made and sent to other hometown newspapers 
which the student may indicate.
Primarily, then, the benefit of the new form 
is that it is concise, yet as accurate as the students 
own knowledge can make it. When a hometown 
editor receives a copy, he has a handy, easy-toread document which presents all the interesting 
facts.
It Took Ten Years 
To Give It To You
Dreaming is a pleasant occupation. But rare is 
he whose dream provokes him into a years-long 
struggle to make such a vision appear in fact.
Just such a rare individual is the Reverend 
Hugh S. Clark of the Church of the Redeemer, 
who ten years ago, when he first started working, 
studying, and playing with students from Carne
gie, envisioned a home where he could meet with 
his student friends, talk with them, and worship 
with them. For ten long years, four of them spent 
as a chaplain during the war, this dream could not 
become a reality.
But this month, at 5170 Margaret Morrison 
street, Reverend Clarks dream lives, for Canter
bury house is at last a reality.
And a more satisfactory materialization could 
never have been wished for. For Canterbury house 
is a relaxed looking brick structure that already 
wears an air of friendliness.
Although it will this fall house only ten stu
dents, all men, eight undergraduates and two grad
uates, the house will serve as a campus headquar
ters for scores of students seeking relaxation, 
friendly counsel, stimulating discussions, and in
spiring worship services.
In addition it will serve as the campus head
quarters of the Canterbury Club, an Episcopalian 
student group which is led by Reverend Clark. 
Members of the Club will aid in operating the 
House and in conducting the religious services 
each Wednesday evening and Thursday morning.
Extremely fortunate in the acquisition of the 
House itself, members of the Club feel doubly 
blessed in obtaining the services of one of the 
most gracious ladies known at this school, for
mer Dean of Women Mrs. Jessie Yon, who will 
act not only as housemother to the residents but 
also as a hostess at Canterbury Club functions.
As the school year begins, Mrs. Yon is enthus
iastic about beginning operation of the House and 
is eagerly awaiting the busy year she has ahead.
Just as enthusiastic about beginning operation 
of the house but somewhat more restrained are 
Pat Ryan, Mike Slye, Jack Horner, and Danny 
Franks, who have been devoting so many hours 
in the past few weeks to readying the house for 
occupancy this week that they are no longer in 
condition to jump up on chairs and shout for joy. 
Nevertheless they are quite happy that their job 
is behind them, as are the many students who 
will enjoy the fruit of their labors.
Easily the outstanding feature of the House is 
the Emmaus chapel, small but beautifully designed 
in the modern idiom by Will Wherrette. The
[Continued on vage 4]
In Constant View
Activities Awards Ease Strain 
Of Time-Consuming Positions
An activities scholarship plan, approved by Student Council last 
spring, has made funds available for awards to students holding any 
of thirteen key positions in campus extracurricular activities. These 
positions include editors and business managers of the larger pub
lications and certain officers of Student Council, the Kiltie Band, 
Spring Carnival and Scotch and Soda.
Five scholarships have been awarded this year to students 
qualifying under the program.* A spedal fund> administered
Edward Head, student manager of 
the Kiltie Band; Richard Shaf
fer, budget chairman of Student 
Council; Donald Stitt, business 
manager of the Scottie; Walter Ambrose, editor of the Technical, 
and Robert Johnson, editor of the 
Tartan have been granted awards under the provisions of the plan.
As adopted last year by Stu
dent Council, the plan establishes 
a Council .sub-committee of three 
to administer awards. This com
mittee includes a special chair
man, elected by Student Council, 
the* chairman of the Budget com
mittee of Council, and the chair
man of the Committee on Financial Aid for Students. Last year 
these members were, respectively, Andrew Sterrett, Paul Shucker, and Dean of Men James A. Dickinson.
from the profits of all-school af
fairs, is the source of awards. 1 
However, in order to receive an 
award, a student qualifying un
der one of the official positions 
must also establish his financial 
need by filing a regular scholar
ship application with the Dean 
of Men.
In addition to holding one oi 
the key positions and filing a 
statement of financial need, an 
applicant needs a minimum factor 
of 1.80. Students may hold an 
activities award in addition to a 
scholarship.
The purpose of these awards is 
to ease the financial strain on students holding important, timeconsuming positions in extracurricular activities which are of 
benefit to the student body as a whole.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street *
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR 
---------------------??---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion ................................................................... g a_ m
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... n a. m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish 
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting, 
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30)
All Students Welcome
ALL ROADS 
LEAD TO THE
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
For Both Used And New Text and Reference Books
OPEN 8:30 TO 6

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Paul Offermans
C1  intramural ProgramSportscopeBei, Ex
Under the able guidance of Mr. David See, intramural 
athletics are headed for another banner year. In its annual 
report the Intramural board announced a new policy to im
prove officiating, a sore spot most of last year. In order 
to pay better wages to the officials, the board members de
cided to cut down on the expense involved in providing elab
orate trophys. It seems that if better officiating can be had, 
the IM Board is willing to pay for it. This department feels 
that a little extra cash to run the intramural leagueswhich 
is no small taskwould be a swell vote of confidence from 
the administration for the excellent work which the IM board 
accomplished last year and undoubtedly will this year too.
Several new sports have been added to the program this 
year. From the opening of the touch football season during 
the week of October 4, the intramural department will present 
the most varied program in its history. Following football in 
the fall will be volleyball and water polo, the 
last one bringing a new field of competition 
under the guidance of the IM board.
Basketball will hold the spotlight among 
winter activities with five other minor sports 
completing the indoor program. Table tennis 
and handball will provide for both team and 
individual play while bowling, wrestling and 
swimming fill up the winter card. Wrestling 
and swimming are also new on the intramural program.
Foul shooting soccer, and badminton championships will 
be run off in April and softball will continue through April 
and May. Horseshoes, archery and rifle close out the years 
competition. The end of the year will find the IM Board 
awarding a total of sixteen cups besides the coveted AllPoints and Sportsmanship trophies.
The All-Points trophy is awarded annually to the organi
zation that polls the most points from competing in intramural 
athletics. Points are given at varied rates, depending on the 
sport, and for different things. For example, a team gets 
points for entering competition, for completing the schedule, 
for each contest won, for winning its league and for winning 
the school championship.
The Sportsmanship trophy is presented to the organiza
tion that receives the highest average, based on one hundred 
per cent, from its total of rating sheets on football, volley
ball, basketball, softball, and soccer. These rating sheets are 
filed by the referee immediately following every game, and 
are based on general team sportsmanship, promptness (on 
time for game), substitution policy, cleaness of play and of 
speech and cooperation with officials. To be eligible for this 
trophy, teams must participate in all three major sports 
football, basketball and softball, and one minor sport, volley
ball or soccer.
Odds and ends . . . Coach Donohoes Tartans can expect 
to come up against a team that will be well tutored in the 
use of the T-formation when they invade Francis field, St. 
Louis to meet the Washington Bears on October 2. The Bears 
coach, Weeb Ewbank, learned the T from Paul Brown 
while assisting him at the Great Lakes naval training station 
during the war. Brown, now coaching the professional Cleveland Browns, is considered to be the cleverest coach in pro 
ball when it comes to the T . . . Other notables on the Bears 
coaching staff are Irwin Uteritz, former backfield coach at 
Northwestern, Wisconsin and the University of California, and 
an All-American quarterback in his playing days at Michi
gan; and Frank Red umiskey, a former All-Big Nine end 
at Ohio State and more recently playing with the Brooklyn 
(football) Dodgers ... In their opening game with Washing
ton the Plaid will probably start a line which averages 195 
i. and a little better than 6 1 in height. Washingtons 
!up will hold approximately a two pound per man edge, 
sighing in at a 197 average. They also stand a little more 
n V 1.
Intramurals should be able to fill the athletci desires of 
very student. The program, running from September to June, 
ffers almost every sport from football and bowling to softand table tennis. It is run by and for the students. Make 
of it!
Starting Lineup Uncertain As 
Tartan Grid Squad Awaits Opener
Plaid Coaches Map Strategy
Back row, Cantini, Irwin, McMillan; Front row, Donohoe, Burns.
Fall Sports 
Begin Practice
Coaches Make Call For 
Cross Country, Soccer
With the call for both cross 
country and soccer candidates be
ing issued this week, two more intercollegiate sports will shortly 
get \ under way.
All candidates for the squads 
are urged to sign up immediately 
in the athletic office, room 102, gymnasium. A meeting of all can 
didates will be held on Thursday, September 23 at 4:30. Cross coun
try candidates will meet in the athletic office while those interested in soccer should go to the mens locker room.
It is imperative, however, that 
everyone trying out for these sports sign up at the athletic of
fice before the meeting.
Cross-country coach Guy Halferty has announced that the sea
son, will start for his harriers on 
October 9, with a practice meet 
scheduled for the Schenley course.
IM Handbook 
Soon Available
In an effort to clarify the opera
tion of the Intramural Athletic 
board, Mr. David See, IM director, 
has announced the publication of 
a small handbook by his department.
This handbook will present de
tailed explanations of both the 
All Points trophy and Sportsman
ship trophy together with the pro
per procedure for entering and 
competing in the intramural program.
Also ully explained in the 
booklet will be the method of 
awarding points for the various 
sports under the Intramural boards direction.
Mr. See wishes to correct a mis
take which will appear in the book 
due to a proofreaders error. The 
1948 foul shooting champion is listed as Theta Xi. Actually, Kap
pa Sigma took first place honors 
in this event, with TX finishing 
second.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT CENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEA LFOR LUNCH
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If Youre Particular, Set the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Willoughby 
Appointed New 
Tartan Trainer
Walter O. Willoughby, formerly 
the assistant trainer at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, has taken 
over the trainer position at Car
negie which was vacated last June 
with the retirement of William 
(Bert) Munhall. Bert carried the 
little black bag for Tartan ath
letes for 34 years.
Willoughby is 39 and resides at 
270 Jonquil Ave., Mt. Lebanon. 
He is a graduate of Dormont High, 
first becoming interested in physi
cal education in 1925 when a 
football injury cut short his high 
school athletic career.
At present, he is working to
ward a degree in physical educa
tion at Pitt, besides taking care of 
the aches and pains of the Plaid 
gridders. Previously he studied 
physiotheraphy at Bellevue hos-' 
pital in New York.
Assistant trainer at Pitt since 
1943, Willoughby will take care 
of all Carnegie intercollegiate ath
letic squads.
IM Football
Officials are needed for the 
intramural touch football 
games. All those interested in 
picking up a little extra cash 
by working these games should 
give their names to Mr. See at 
the Intramural office.
Organizations wishing to en
ter a team in touch football 
competition must file their en
try blanks at the Intramural office by Oct. 1. Play will get 
under way about Oct. 4.
rReserve Strength 
Provides Coaches 
With High Hopes
With the opening game less 
than two weeks away, head foot
ball coach Bill Donohoe is still 
without a starting lineup. The 
uncertainty about the first eleven, 
however, centers around a sur
plus, rather than a deficiency, of 
potential starters.
As time grows shorter, the 
strain of the tight battle for start
ing berths is beginning to show 
on all of the candidates. Even act
ing captain Gerry Meyers is be
ing pushed hard to make the 
grade, while the first string back
field is no more certain than it was on the first day of scrimmage.
Bobby Sommers, listed in pre
season billings as Carnegies big 
backfield threat, is getting stiff 
competition from flashy Don Armour. Armour, a letterman at end 
last year, has combined speed 
afoot with a remarkably accurate 
passing arm to develop into one 
of the more well-rounded offen
sive tailbacks on the squad.
At the blocking back slot, hard
hitting Arnie Oberg has taken over at least temporarily, while 
Ray Warner and Wes Kenney are 
still holding down the wingback 
and fullback posts despite the 
heavy opposition facing them.
The veteran Steve Madden and 
Fred Wilson, a freshman, seem 
most likely to break into the cur
rent starting line, at tackle and end respectively, although Johnny 
Windish is still making a strong 
bid for the center position. At this 
writing, however, Williamson and 
Dougherty were still holding forth 
at the terminals, as were Meyers 
and Keats at tackles, and Kamasas at center. Meanwhile, Larry 
Stovicek and Floyd Wiseman ap
pear almost sure bets to get the 
first call at the guards.
Coach Donohoe expects to call 
upon Williamson to carry the 
greatest part of the punting du
ties, with Oberg as number two 
man. Fullback Wes Kenney is 
scheduled to take up where Premo 
Pappafava left off in the place 
kicking department.
The five man coaching staff has 
once again built up a wide open 
attack spearheaded by an ample 
supply of fast-stepping backs, but the Plaid defense still remains 
questionable. Last years squad 
showed definite weaknesses 
against both passes and outside 
plays. However, concentration 
upon those points in the long, 
hard drills has eliminated most of 
the past errors which were the 
source of the oppositions gains.
Nevertheless, Carnegies chief 
shortcomings in 1947  a lack of 
adequate reserves and sufficient 
pre-season practice  have been 
completely solved, and the Tar
tans have climbed from the bot
tom of the heap to once again look 
toward a winning football season.
It's A Long Way 
To Tipperary 
But A Short Walk
To The:
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue
You'll find the Tech Scottie on: Shaeffer Fine Line Pencils, 
School Pennants, Seal Stationery, Ring Books, Decals
OPEN 8:30 TO 6

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1948
Bulletin Board
Elections
Elections held too late in the 
spring semester to be reported 
then by the Tartan include:
Delta Skull, junior mens activi
ties honorary, elected Ames Penfield president. William Knightly 
is vice-president, and Charles 
Koester is secretary-treasurer.
Marilyn Gasche is new presi
dent of Cwens, sophomore wo
mens activities honorary. Her 
fellow officers include Ruth Jor
dan, vice-president; Mary Cauffield, secretary; and Malou Comer, 
treasurer. 
Scimitar, activities honorary for 
sophomore men, chose Jay John
son, president; Donald Culler, 
vice-president; John Montstream, 
secretary; and Robert Carpenter, 
treasurer.
Newly elected officers of Interfratemity council are president 
Lee Wiley and treasurer Stan Sie
gel. Both the vice-president and 
secretary are yet to be chosen.
Marie Delli Gatti has taken 
over the administration of the 
Pan-Hellenic council. Miss Delli 
Gatti, a member of Delta Gam
ma sorority, was elected president 
of the council at an election held 
late last spring.
Filling other administrative po
sitions in the organization will be 
Estelle Berenfield of AEPhi, who was made vice-president, Laurel 
Jones, a Sigma Kappa, who was 
elected secretary; and Anita Cole, 
a tri-Delt, who will be treasurer.
Mortar Board, senior womens 
activities honorary, elected Sylvia 
Davis, of Deit Delta Delta soror
ity, president before the closing 
of the past spring semester. Doro
thy Stewart and Dee Moore, both 
also tri-Delts, were elected treas
urer and historian respectively. 
The vice-president is Ethel Friedman, a member of Alpha Epsilon 
Phi, and Estelle Berenfield, of the 
same sorority, was made secre
tary. Myra Jane Barry, of Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, was elected editor.
Mens Glee Club
The Mens Glee club of Car
negie Tech will have its first 
meeting of the year on Tuesday, 
September 28, at 4:30 p. m. in 
Room 104 of Margaret Morrison. 
Auditions for new members will 
be held at this time. All old mem
bers are requested to be present.
SQUIRREL HILL 
HOBBY SHOP
Closest Hobby Shop 
to Tech
Balsa Wool
and
Model Builders Supplies
2210 Murray Avenue
Below Phillips 
(68 or 69 Streetcar)
University Recreation 
BOWLING
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
MAyflower 2998
EXPERT REPAIRS
BADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVI. HA. 11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
 TZARS EXPER1KNCB
At Your Service
WC1T
All members of WCIT executive 
staff are requested to attend a 
meeting at 4:30 p. m., Thursday, 
September 23 in front of the stu
dio in t'he Fine Arts building.
Cheerleaders
Prospective cheerleaders are 
asked to file applications as soon as possible with Clarence E. Over
end, director of intercollegiate 
athletics, in Room 102 of the mens gymnasium.
Freshmen are especially urged 
to apply.
First Play
The Linden Tree, by J. B. 
Priestly, will be the first play pre
sented by the drama department. 
Mr. Talbot Pearson, who will di
rect the production, has announced 
performances from October 22 to 
29. A limited supply of tickets 
will be available at the drama de
partment office a few days before 
opening night. Notice of ticket 
distribution will be posted on the 
bulletin boards. *
Citcom Mixer
Citcom Clans annual Freshman Mixer for entering freshmen will 
be held in Carnegie Union at 8:00 p.m. Saturday, September 25.
All freshmen are invited to at
tend the mixer, Citcoms first social event of the year.
During the affair, freshmen will 
be given an opportunity to enroll 
in the Clan and old members may 
renew their membership.
Rushing
[Continued from page 1] 
were shown of the Sugar Bowl 
game featuring Carnegie Tech and 
Texas Christian. Other stags held 
at the same time also featured 
movies and special attractions.
Entertainment at the Beta Sig 
house was highlighted by A1 Leh
mans institutional Beatrice Kay 
impersonations and an all male 
chorus line.
Tau Delta Phi on Sunday play
ed host to their national officers 
at an afternoon banquet.
Almost ideal weather brought a 
day of picnicing Sunday for ATOS, 
Betas, Delts, Kappa Sigs, PiKAs 
and TXs and their dates.
Canterbury Club
[Continued from page 2] 
chapel, seating 25 people, and 
designed expressly for student 
groups, will be consecrated at a 
special service on September 29 
by Bishop Pardue of Episcopal 
church.The house was purchased 
through the generosity of the 
members of the parish of the 
Church of the Redeemer as well 
as many other individual donors 
and the contribution of a member 
of the United Presbyterian church.
Tau Beta Pi
[Continued from page 1] 
will be selected in the near fu
ture, and will be tapped on Car
negie Day, November 23. As many 
as three honor juniors may be called in addition to a larger 
group of seniors.
Scottie Notice
All present memhers of the 
Scottie staff and upperclassmen 
interested in working on the 
magazine are requested to be present at a meeting in the cottie office in the Union on 
Thursday, Sept. 23, at 4:30 p. m.
Student Council
[Continued from page 1]
fray part of the costs of the tripfor each.
Hall and Meyers were directed to discover, if possible, precisely 
what good the association could do for Carnegie Tech in the way 
of solving contemporary campus 
problems. The Council members 
were unsure that anything specific 
could be done for this campus by an organization such as NSA.
There was also some fear that 
the organization had been or is 
dominated by special interest 
groups, particularly communists.The Varsity C-Club, in an at
tempt to raise funds, requested 
permission to sell Carnegie Tech 
license plate attachments this fall. Profits from this venture will be 
deposited in the athletic fund. An 
appropriation from Council was requested to supply working capital for the venture.
SCHENLEY 
HAND LAUNDRY
418 South Craig Street 
2 DAY SERVICE 
Darning and Mending Free
Veterans Checks
Initial subsistence checks for 
veterans will be issued on or about 
November 1. These checks will 
cover the last part of September 
and the month of October. There
fore, all students attending school 
under the GI Bill should be finan
cially prepared to defray their liv
ing expenses for this first five or 
six week period. All ex-service
men are also reminded to keep a 
close check on the Veterans Bul
letin Board next to room IH 155.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Main Plant!
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
3 HOUR DRY CLEANING
RAINCOATS SHOWERPROOFED
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
YOU CAM RINV 
MIY MAW Of
pOR^ABlt "'*** * ^
CORONA SllEHT i. "*op * obWtypWTi,,rv
mt
Q
^orn**e8ndI^i'vRent yv* you.- reirtal app^ de,-...
^ you buy oaej TS. ZEPHY*- art** P0** _  .00  w*. ^onot CORO"
Cenetoi
'U M4 Liberty Av* 
SP ORTC
J lu-.
Seemillers Forbes and Craig
Worn with casual clothes on the college 
campus or with the well fashioned clothes 
of the business executive. This straight 
tip shoe with the unusual zigzag stitching 
has a long wearing, triple thick sole and 
the popular click heel.flenqtiai Shoes
w. I. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.,BROCKTON 15, MASS
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY) 1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING
