Volume 93, Issue 7Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190619 October 1998
Cyert passes awayVigil honors slain gay student
Inside
Calendar.'.......................................................L16
Classified.........................................................13
Comics..............................................................L5
Diversions.......................................................Lll
Living......................................................:......LI
Forum..................................................................8
Sports................................................................14
Sports
Football loses again 
 see page 14
Diversions
Shop different!
 see page Lll
Features
THE TARTAN
Shirts speak for victims 
 see page L3courtesy Maria Muti
Law threatens federal student aid for drug offenders
By BETSY SCOTT work assistance. Depending on lation, punishable only by a fine, Administrators at Carnegie
Tartan Junior Staffwriter the number of convictions, stutherefore making the law appliMellon do not believe that the
dent aid may be suspended for cable only to students living in impending legislation will have a
On October 7, President Clinton one year, two years, and then certain states. significant impact on students at
signed an amendment to the indefinitely. If a student _________________________________________________________________
Higher Education Act that will participates in a drug re,,  u . ,
prohibit students convicted of habilitation program and rOt tilOSG TGW IYI?O ITI3y flOW CtlOOSG tO
drug charges from receiving fedpasses two random drug dtUgS. I 1006 theV take thlS addederal financial aid. Despite admintests, these suspensions o 
istrative belief that the law will maybe shortened. /7S/< tO theft edUCatiOH VeiV SeHOUSlV. have minimal enect on Carnegie While the law now de'
Mellon students, many current nies financial aid to stuMichael Murphy
students had strong opinions on dents convicted of minor
the nature of the legislation. drug charges, it makes no (GBf! Of StlidGilt AffclitS
According to the new bill, A such provisions for those 
student who has been convicted convicted of violent crimes.
of any offense under any Federal It is unclear how the legislation In Pennsylvania, possession of the University,
or State law involving the posseswould affect those charged with a small amount of controlled subOur current application does 
sion or sale of a controlled submarijuana offenses. In some stance is a misdemeanor and punnot ask whether or not an applistance shall not be eligible to restates, marijuana possession is a ishable with 30 days imprisoncant has been convicted of a crime, 
ceive any [federal] grant, loan, or  felony, while in others it is a vioment, a $500 fine, or both. WhiletheremayhavebeenahandPolice offer defense training
By ANWESHA RAKSHIT two days require full attenpretty secure. However unexTartan Junior Staffwriter dance to gain important pected things can happen, said 
knowledge for awareness, risk junior computer science major 
This semester, Carnegie Mellreduction, and self defense Pooja Saksena. Other women 
on Campus Police began offertechniques. The third day is reported that they did not feel 
ing a new, three-day Rape Agoptional. Simulations are conconfident around certain places 
gression Defense (RAD) course ducted and participants are such as the parking lot behind 
designed specifically for women, able to put into practice what the UC, the Building D area, 
The first class of its kind at they have learned over the last and the walk between Mudge 
Carnegie Mellon University two days. If participants and Morewood after dark, 
was conducted on 28,29, and 30 choose not to attend on the Bascially, Ive always wanted
September. Officers Leon D. third day, it is not counted to take such a class, said firstMickensIIIand JoeBernarding against them. A similar class year H&SS undeclared Lara 
instructed four female students, is scheduled to take place on Panis, who participated in the 
It is a basic self defense class 26, 27, and 28 October, and program. The course helped me 
for women only, said Mickens. another will also be conducted to feel more confident walking 
The objective of this class is to in November. about at night. I learned many
develop and enhance the opOne problem the instructors different ways to defend mytions of self defense so that encountered for the first sesself. Its not just about defense, 
they may become viable consion was the small response its also about ways to prevent 
siderations to the woman who they received. Some of the parsuch events from happening. 
is attacked. ticipants felt that the 12 hour She also said that she thought
Officer Mickens also said (4 hours for three days) time that the campus was safe until 
that the class is offered to all commitment might be a reashe took the class and then re
women on campus, including son for low attendance. alized that she wasnt aware of
professors and staff. The first Its a small campus, so its Please see DEFENSE, page 3
One last huddle...
The football team gathered after a tough loss in front of the Homecoming crowd last weekend.
ful of candidates who have volun
teered that information over the 
years, the number has been very 
small... less than five since I have 
become director of admission in 
1986, said Michael Steidel, direc
tor of Admissions. As a result, I 
do not think this legislation will 
have significant impact on appli
cations here at Carnegie Mellon.
However, the administration also 
feels that the amendment is an 
issue that students need to be aware 
of. Regardless of their financial aid 
status or opinions about drug use, 
this is a law targeting students.
The specific conditions with re
spect to possession, use, or sale of 
controlled substances will be irrel
evant to the vast majority of stu
dents, said Michael Murphy, dean
of Student Affairs. For those few 
who may now choose to use drugs 
in spite of the health, personal 
welfare, and legal implications, I 
hope they take this added risk to 
their education very seriously. 
Despite official belief that the 
law would have a minimal effect 
upon student enrollment at CMU, 
students held strong opinions about 
the bills aim and appropriateness.
Some students agreed with the 
policy, feeling it might have a 
positive impact on students at
tention to current drug laws.
People dont take laws on drugs 
very seriously, said Laura 
Miyakawa, a sophomore ECE ma
jor. I think that a lot of people think 
that smoking pot doesnt affect your 
Please see DRUGS, page 3
after cancer battle
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Two weeks ago, the CMU Pipe and 
Drum band traveled to Richard Cyerts 
home to play for him. Members of 
GSIA planned the visit to be a thank 
you for Cyerts dedication to the uni
versity community. It also turned out 
to be a fitting farewell for a man who 
is largely responsible for making Car
negie Mellon the educational institu
tion it is today.
Tartan File Photo 
President Cyert addressed the student 
body prior to leaving office.
Richard Michael Cyert, sixth presi
dent of CMU, died Wednesday 
evening, October 7, at his home in the 
Pittsburgh suburb of Fox Chapel. He 
had been battling cancer for over six 
years. He is survived by his wife, 
Margaret Shadick Cyert, their three 
daughters, and two grandsons, as well 
as his two sisters.
Cyert, who began his years at Carn
egie Mellon in 1948 as an instructor of 
economics, played an active role on 
campus until his death. He was the 
head of the Industrial Management 
department and dean of the Gradu
ate School of Industrial Administra
tion before becoming president of 
the University in 1972. He stepped 
down from that post in 1990, but 
continued to teach on campus as an 
emeritus professor of economics and 
management.
He was a man of not only great 
intellectual capacity but also great 
strength and vigor, said physics 
professor John Fetkovich.
When Cyert announced his plans 
to retire from the presidency in 
1989, he asked Fetkovich, who was 
then chairman of the Faculty Sen
ate, to head a faculty search com
mittee for the next president.
He was instrumental in taking 
the University in many directions 
during his presidency, said 
Fetkovich. Everyone knows the im
portance of having someone like Dick 
Cyert as president during that time. 
In 1972, Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity was a regional school deep 
Please see CYERT, page 6
By NATHAN STEENWALD
Tartan News Editor
Over the course of the last 
week the nations eyes have 
turned to Laramie, Wyoming 
and watched as details of the 
death of Matthew Shepard 
have unfolded. Shepard was 
beaten and tied to a fence 
where he was later found in a 
coma. Five days later Shepard 
died in the hospital from the 
wounds he received. Doctors 
said that they were unable to 
operate on his brain because 
of how badly damaged his 
skull was.
Last Saturday a group of 
students from CMU and 
people from the Pittsburgh 
area held a candlelight vigil 
at the fence for Shepard, who 
died October 12. Shepard was 
a 21-year-old student at the 
University of Wyoming who 
was beaten to death because 
he was gay. Though no one at gathering 
knew Shepard, it was a show of support 
and unity designed to express the complex 
emotions demonstrators are going through, 
and to highlight the fact that Shepards 
death is not an isolated incident.
The vigil began at 8 pm and lasted until 
midnight when those remaining painted 
the fence. More than 200 participants lit 
candles and took part in the vigil, which 
included speakers from the Pittsburgh 
area and an open mic session.*
The mood ofthe evening was subdued, but 
organizers were pleased with the turnout.
I think it is really exciting because we 
only had a few days to organize and we 
were able to get a lot of people, said
Concerned students and community members gathered on the Cut to honor Matthew Shepard.
masters student in statistics Michele 
Di Pietro, one of the primary organizers 
of the vigil. I think there is a lot to do 
still. We are still trying to get domestic 
partnership recognized; last year there 
were hate chalkings on the steps [of 
Doherty] and at the womens center. 
Pittsburgh is ranked as number 10 of 
the worst cities in the country for gays 
to live in, said Angela Baker, another 
organizer of the vigil. Baker said that 
the vigil was. designed to raise aware
ness, and personally for me to say Im 
not going to take it. any more.  
Campus community members at the 
vigil said that they thought the Carn
egie Mellon community was generally
accepting of homosexuals but that there 
are areas that needed improvement.
Its important to remember that its 
not just murders, said Duane Will
iams, senior research analyst in the 
Automation and Robotics group. Weve 
had people assaulted and harassed.... 
[Carnegie Mellon] is partially support
ive, but this campus doesnt fully rec
ognize [homosexuals]. For example 
CMU doesnt recognize domestic part
ners, and we are trying to change that. 
It is an inequality.
Two petitions were also available at 
the vigil for participants to sign. Both 
were directed towards improving hate 
Please see VIGIL, page 4

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
 
Family holds services 
for murdered gay son
CASPER, Wyoming (AP)  Tim 
Townsend never met Matthew Wayne 
Shepard. Yet the Denver man felt a 
special connection to the gay Univer
sity of Wyoming student who died af
ter he was pistol-whipped, robbed, and 
lashed to a fence on the Wyoming 
prairie last week.
I feel that this could happen to me 
or this could happen to anyone, said 
Townsend, 30. Im gay myself and 
Ive gone to bars, and it could have 
been me.
He was among nearly 700 people who 
filled St. Marks Episcopal Church in 
Shepards hometown on Friday to re
member the 21-year-old student whose 
death has focused the nations attention 
on attitudes toward homosexuals, hate 
crimes, and discrimination.
The killing has drawn condemna
tion from President Clinton, who called 
on Congress to pass legislation cover
ing offenses based on sexual orienta
tion. He sent two administration offi
cials to the funeral.
Mourners lined up three hours be
fore the service despite a wet autumn 
snowstorm that blanketed the area 
and caused the lights to flicker at least 
twice during the ceremony. Outside 
the church, more than a dozen protest
ers shouted and carried signs with 
anti-gay slogans.
Some passers-by stopped to chal
lenge them. This isnt what Jesus 
Christ would do. This isnt what Chris
tians do, said David Anderson, 44.
Shepard died Monday, five days af
ter he was beaten. Authorities say he 
was lured out of a bar in Laramie, 120 
miles southeast of Casper. Shepard 
was tied to a fence post outside town in 
near-freezing temperatures.
He was found 18 hours later by a 
bicyclist, who at first thought he was a 
scarecrow. Shepards head had been 
partially crushed by a blow from a gun.
Two 21-year-old men have been 
charged with murder. Police have said 
robbery was a top motive but Shepard 
was also singled out because he was gay.
At the service, where Shepards ashes 
were in an urn on the altar, one speaker 
called him a tragic hero thats hard to 
find, a martyr with great courage. 
Some speakers were not identified 
because the family feared for their 
safety. There have been anti-gay out
bursts since the case was publicized.
He was not always a winner accord
ing to the worlds standards, said the 
Reverand Anne Kitch, a Peekskill, 
N.Y., clergy member who is married to 
Shepards cousin. He struggled to fit 
into a world not always kind to gentle 
spirits. What was important to Matt 
was to care, to help to nurture, to bring 
joy to others in his quiet, gentle way.
Across the street, anti-gay protest
ers waved signs with messages such 
as God Hates Fags. Standing behind 
barricades, they shouted and engaged 
passers-by in loud and nasty debates.
I came to spread some truth in this 
orgy of lies, said James 
Hockenbarger, who came from a Bap
tist church in Topeka, Kan., whose 
members regularly engage in anti
homosexual demonstrations.
At one point, a man wearing a cow
boy hat and cowboy boots joined a group 
of Casper teen-agers and several gay 
men from Chicago in singing Amazing 
Grace.!5 One man said he sang to drown 
out the protesters shouts.
Anticipating demonstrations, the 
City Council late Thursday banned 
protests near funerals for one hour 
before, during, and two hours after a 
service. About 100 police officers pro
vided security and bomb-sniffing dogs 
checked the church. Class was dis
missed from a nearby school.
Earlier, Shepards parents gave 
thanks for the thousands of cards, let
ters, and emails of support. Dennis 
Shepard asked the public to respect the 
familys privacy. Because Matts last 
few minutes of consciousness on Earth 
might have been hell, his family and 
friends want more than ever to say 
their farewells, to him in a peaceful, 
dignified, and loving manner, he said.
Judge bans MP3 
player temporarily
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Afederal judge 
temporarily banned production of a 
hand-held device that can download and 
play pirated computer music files.
In a lawsuit filed on behalf of major 
record companies, U.S. District Judge 
Audrey Collins on Friday issued a 10- 
day restraining order against Diamond 
Multimedia Systems Inc. of San Jose.
The company is prohibited from pro
ducing its Rio portable MP3 player. Both 
sides were ordered back on October 26 
for the judge to consider a permanent 
injunction, which would block produc
tion until Collins rules whether the de
vice violates the 1992 federal Audio 
Home Recording Act protecting artists, 
composers, publishers, and record com
panies against piracy.
The palm-sized Rio, which was sup
posed to hit the market early next 
month, plugs into a computer and can 
save and replay nearly an hour of nearCD quality music that is stored in the 
MP3 format.
The Recording Industry Association 
of America, which represents five major 
record companies and other music busi
nesses, sued Diamond on October 9. The 
Washington-based association contends 
the device will enable customers to down
load pirated music from the Internet 
instead of paying for CDs.
The group wants the 2.4-ounce player 
to include a copy-protection technol
ogy to prevent users from making boot
legged music recordings and also wants 
royalty compensation for musicians 
and songwriters. ^
Diamond attorney Andrew Bridges 
argued that the recording act doesnt 
apply because the Rio depends on a 
' computer to store audio files and the act 
specifically exempts computers.
Steelers pick site 
for new stadium
PITTSBURGH (AP) - The Pittsburgh 
Steelers have selected a site for their 
new $230 million stadium and may be
gin construction by June.
The stadium will be built on the 
citys North Side between the CarnThree Rivers Stadium,, which will be 
torn down after the new stadium is 
finished, team vice president Art 
Rooney II said Wednesday.
The site on the river, with a strong 
connection to the river and with a view 
of the Point and the downtown skyline 
will make the stadium a Pittsburgh 
icon, Rooney said. An open end of the 
new stadium is expected to provide a 
view of the city.
The chosen site provides more space 
around the stadium than the alterna
tive a little to the west, Rooney said.
Also, science center officials had ob
jected to the west site, saying the sta
dium would be so close, it would over
shadow the science center and interfere 
with any plans for expansion.
The old Kaufmanns warehouse must 
be purchased and demolished before con
struction can begin, probably June 1. 
The Steelers hope to have the stadium 
ready by August 2001.
With the site in place, HOK archi
tects of Kansas City can begin design
ing the stadium.
HOK is also designing PNC Park, a 
$224 million baseball-only field for the 
Pirates, scheduled to be built east of the 
new stadium and finished by April 2001.
Wal-Mart fights 
to protect secrets
NEW YORK (AP) - In a battle of 
booksellers, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has 
sued Amazon.com and claimed the 
Internet company that wants to be the 
discount superstore of cyberspace is 
stealing trade secrets.
In a lawsuit filed in Chancery Court in 
Benton County, Arkansas, Wal-Mart 
asked for an injunction against 
Amazon.com to prevent the Seattlebased company from allegedly trying to 
duplicate proprietary technology.
The order also would apply to 
Amazon.com affiliates Kleiner Perkins, 
Caufield & Byers, and Drugstore.com.
The Bentonville, Arkansas-based com
pany claims Amazon.com recruited its 
former associates and targeted its ven
dors to learn more about Wal-Marts 
information database, which analysts 
say is second in size only to the U.S. 
government. It includes data on sales, 
inventory, and consumer buying habits.
Our information and logistics sys-.
egie Science Center and 28-year-old tems are world renowned and a key move.
factor in our success, said Robert 
Rhodes, Wal-Mart senior vice president.
Amazon.com spokesman Bill Curry 
said his company is not interested in 
getting trade secrets.
Were interested in hiring the bright
est, hardest-working, and most talented 
people, wherever they might be, he said.
But mimicking Wal-Mart could 
help Amazon.com expand from its core 
base of books into other areas of online 
retailing, said Tim Bajarin, president 
of Creative Strategies Inc. in San 
Jose, Calif.
The bottom line is they are trying to 
be the Wal-Mart of cyberspace, he said. 
Amazon is very smart without pulling 
the Wal-Mart guys into help them. But 
there is no question that they can speed 
up their process of making themselves 
into the premier site in cyberspace if 
they have additional experience work
ing with them.
Government will 
donate tuna fish
WASHINGTON (AP) - The govern
ment announced Friday it plans to buy 
1,250 tons, or four million six-ounce cans, 
of albacore tuna on the West Coast and 
distribute it to food banks and school 
lunch programs nationwide.
This purchase will help American 
fishermen, Agriculture Secretary Dan 
Glickman said of the planned $4 mil
lion purchase.
As much as 7,000 tons of tuna is sit
ting in boats or in cold storage on land 
because of a glut in the tuna fish market 
that is expected to continue into next 
season. The Agriculture Department has 
the authority to purchase surplus food 
products when the surplus causes an 
economic emergency.
Asian catchers, unable to sell tuna in 
their own countries because of the eco
nomic crisis, have helped create the glut 
on the West Coast. Warmer weather 
from the El Nio system also has in
creased the tuna harvest.
Wayne Heikkila, general manager for 
the 600-member Western Fishboat 
Owners Association, said the govern
ment purchase is unprecedented for 
albacore tuna.
It will go a ways toward taking care of 
the problem, he said. It came through 
quicker than I thought government could
Scientists say trees are soaking up tons of carbon dioxide
WASHINGTON (AP) - There 
may be a bit of good news on the 
global-warming front. North 
America seems to be removing a 
substantial portion of the excess 
carbon in the atmosphere  al
most two billion tons annually.
A team of government and uni
versity researchers speculates 
that the carbon is being soaked 
up, at least partly, by the re
growth of plants and vegetation 
on abandoned farmland and pre
viously logged forests.
But the report, in Fridays edi
tion of the journal Science, could 
mean more controversy for the 
global-warming debate.
In particular, environmental
ists worry that groups opposed to 
the global climate treaty negoti
ated last year in Kyoto, Japan, 
will use the findings to argue 
that the United States doesnt 
need to reduce emissions of socalled greenhouse gases, as it 
agreed to do.
There is a huge concern that 
this result will be misinterpreted, 
ecologist David Schimel of the 
National Center for Atmospheric 
Research in Boulder, Col., said in 
a telephone interview.
I dont believe this result, 
said Schimel, commenting that 
other research indicates 
the amount of carbon taken up 
by North America can be no 
more than 700 million tons, 
rather than the 1.2 billion to 
2.2 billion tons estimated by the 
new report.
Pieter Tans, one of the scien
tists who worked on the paper, 
admitted the uncertainties are still 
large. This is not ironclad. We 
say in the paper the evidence is 
still somewhat tentative, said 
Tans, an atmospheric chemist at 
the National Oceanic and Atmo
spheric Administrations Climate 
Monitoring and Diagnostics 
Laboratory in Boulder.
But Tans also feels the team 
used good models for their re
search. Weve tried to look at all 
the uncertainties, and this is what 
we get, he said.
Carbon dioxide released by 
burning fossil fuels such as coal 
and oil has been increasing in the 
atmosphere. That has led to the 
conclusion by many scientists that
it might cause excessive warming 
of the Earth by trapping heat from 
the sun, somewhat like the glass 
of a greenhouse.
The measured increase in car
bon dioxide has been less than was 
expected, leading scientists to won
der where the excess was going.
The paper measures carbon 
dioxide levels around the world 
and concludes that whatever is 
absorbing the gas is in the tem
perate region of the northern 
hemisphere, roughly between 25 
degrees and 51 degrees north 
latitude.
Comparing carbon dioxide lev
els in America, Europe, and Asia 
led the scientists to believe that 
the major absorption is occurring 
in North America.
Regrowth on farmland and pre
viously cut forests is a strong 
possibility since growing plants 
absorb carbon dioxide, use the 
carbon for growth, and release 
oxygen into the air.
Tans also speculated that in
creases in carbon dioxide have 
spurred plant growth, which 
caused them to grow faster and 
remove more of the gas from the 
air. Fertilization by increased 
nitrogen in the air might have 
had the same effect, he said.
The analysis looked at carbon 
dioxide levels between 1988 and 
1992, measured at 63 atmo
spheric sampling stations.
The current uptake of carbon 
by terrestrial ecosystems is help
ing to slow down the rise of C02
in the atmosphere, but we need 
to know why it is happening. Only 
then may we be able to project for 
how long into the future this pro
cess may continue, Tans said.
Jerry Mahlman, director of 
NOAAs Geophysical Fluid Dy
namics Laboratory at Princeton 
University, a co-author of the 
paper, said that while the North 
American carbon sink may prove 
.important in worldwide manage
ment of atmospheric carbon ab
sorption, its value will come at a 
global level, not regional.
In addition to Tans and 
Mahlman, co-authors of the ar
ticle in Science are Song-Miao 
Fan, Emanuel Gloor, Stephen 
Pacala, and Jorge Sarmiento of 
Princeton University.
]?our-Day Forecast
Tuesday
u
Sunny 
> hi 53 
lo 39
Wednesday Mostly cloudy 
jr"' hi 46 
lo 34
Thursday
mm
Showers/sun 
hi 45 
lo 36
Friday
1*" i
Mostly cloudy 
^ hi 46 
lo 26
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, November 3, 
1948  President Robert Doherty 
held a luncheon for local sports 
writers and announcers at the 
University club. During this lun
cheon, Doherty said he was dis
appointed but not discouraged 
over Carnegie Techs recent foot
ball fortunes.
The Carnegie Tech football 
team, which had assembled the 
longest losing streak in the 
schools history, was the source of 
controversy as students and 
sportswriters questioned 
Dohertys committment to sports.
During the luncheon, Doherty 
reiterated Techs athletic 
policy which states, Education 
comes first.
25 YEARS AGO, November 
6, 1973  As part of a plan to 
dispose of property not of imme
diate use to the University, the 
former Presidents mansion and 
a building that formerly housed 
the offices of the Physical Plant 
were put on the market. The 
Presidents mansion had been 
empty since President Cyert 
took office.
The plan had been in effect for 
the past four years. During that 
time, about 50 pieces of property 
had been sold or leased. Most of it 
was located in the Oakland area 
immediately surrounding the 
Mellon Institute.
10 YEARS AGO, October 25, 
1988  More than 100 CMU 
students attended a rally for 
presidential candidate Michael 
Dukakis. They stood in the freez
ing rain amongst a crowd of 
about 2,000 to hear the Massa
chusetts Governor speak at
McKeesports John F. Kennedy 
Memorial Park.
The Democratic nominee 
promised to create new jobs in 
Western Pennsylvania, saying 
he would restrict foreign steel 
imports and return steel to this 
valley. Also in attendance was 
actor Albert Brooks, who elic
ited cheers from the crowd when 
he complained about rising col
lege tuition costs. He joked that 
after four years of George Bush 
as President, even Dan 
Quayles father couldnt pay for 
college.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
18, 1993 - A 17-year-old 
Chatham College student claimed 
that a Pi Lambda Phi pledge 
raped her after knocking her un
conscious. She had come to the 
fraternity with her resident as
sistant, who saw her walking 
down the hall looking disheveled 
with her blouse unbuttoned. Cam
pus Police was conducting the 
investigation, but they would not 
provide any other details.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 20, 
1997  After two semesters of 
heated debate, Student Senate 
passed a twice-defeated proposal 
that split Student Government 
into separate graduate and un
dergraduate governing bodies in 
the spring of that year.
The new governing entity took 
the name Graduate Student As
sembly. Graduate students 
worked with undergraduate 
Senators on the proposal for 
15 months.
Compiled by 
RYAND. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 19983
Drugs use poses new 
dangers for students
DRUGS, from page 1
performance, but it does, and if it keeps you 
out of an upper level-college, so be it. 
Even if they disagreed with some of 
the bills specific provisions, such as its 
inconsistencies in dealing with drug laws 
in different states and its lack of penal
ties for other crime offenders, some were 
willing to endorse the legislation.
I think its inappropriate that two stu
dents at the same university [from differ
ent states] could be convicted of the same 
crime and be treated differently, said 
Miyakawa. I think if people commit rape, 
they shouldnt get financial aid.
Others disagreed with the new law
completely, feeling it addressed the 
wrong issues by unfairly targeting rec
reational users who are otherwise ca
pable of attending college.
This is misdirected action against drug 
abuse, said Aaron Michelson, a sopho
more English major. Infrequent indul
gence does not affect academic behavior, 
nor does it promote criminal activity.
It was suggested that Clinton might be 
engaging in right-wing politics to ap
pease Congress which will decide the fate 
of his presidency next month. It seems 
suspicious that Clinton, a formally lib
eral politician, is now supporting this 
very conservative policy, Eaton said.
Defense class provides confidence
DEFENSE, from page 1
what could happen.
After the first RAD class, reports of 
a rape near campus circulated. On 
hearing about the incident which oc
curred outside the Carnegie Library 
in Squirrel Hill, some of the class 
participants wanted to return to the 
class to perfect the techniques they 
had learned.
Others should clear their sched
ules and take the class. It is very brief 
and teaches so much, said Panis. It 
really helped me. By practicing the 
techniques, I found that I was suc
cessful in pulling them off. It was the 
first time the officers conducted the 
class, but they went over all the stuff, 
until we were comfortable with ev
erything. We really felt like they were 
there for us.
Even though its not something that 
you can completely rely on, people should 
attend because at least in some of the 
cases, people will know how to deal with 
the situation they are in, said sopho
more business administration major 
Alison Tepsic.
After taking the class, all participants 
are welcome to go back at any time and 
practice the techniques until they are 
confident they can carry them out.
Officer Mickens also said that the 
class was designed not only to teach 
some basic self defense but also to try 
and give women options on what they 
can do in a tough situation. He added 
that due to the recent assault crimes in
neighboring areas, Campus Police 
have become more alert and aware of 
all events on campus. There are the 
same number of officers and guards 
at night as there are during the day. 
Some officers go on bike patrols, foot 
patrols, and there are at least two 
police cars canvassing the campus to 
ensure safety to all residents.
Campus Police have not extended 
these classes to men yet. Thus far, 
there have only been classes geared 
towards making women aware and 
aout of risk prone situations. Officer 
Mickens said that Campus Police hope 
to make these classes more flexible as 
far as time constraints are concerned, 
and that they also hope to involve staff 
and faculty, along with students.
Student Senate Minutes
Meeting of October 7, 1998
STUDENT 
SENATE Jp
Unofficial Minutes
Meeting was called to order at 
7:10 pm. Roll was taken at 7:00 
pm.
Senators Present:
Anthe (CIT) - 0, Chang(MCS)
 0, Devine (HSS)  0, Ditterline 
(CIT) - 1, Guerra (CIT) - 1, 
Guzy (HSS)  0, Hardjanto (SCS)
 0, Hutsko (MCS)  1, Jones 
(CFA) - .5, Kalafchi (SIA) - 0, 
Koch (CIT) - 2, Markle (CIT) - 
0, Merry (HSS)  .5, Monroe 
(CIT)  0, Moskowitz (HSS)  0, 
Ng (CIT) - 0, Silverman (MCS)
 0, Stovall (MCS)  0, Strauss 
(SCS) - 0, Tham (SIA) - 0, You 
(SIA) - .5
Senators Absent:
Chan-Mendez (SIA)  2, Die 
(CFA) - 1, Gross (CIT) - 1, 
Joshi (MCS)  1, Mccartin (CIT)
 1, Meier (CIT)  2, Phelps 
! (SCS) - 1, Tassone (SCS) .5,
Wei (HSS) - 1
Approval of Minutes: Minutes 
for September 23 were amended 
and approved.
Ex-Officio Reports:
Student Body President (Sa
rah Gross):,Recently I attended 
Spirit and SDC meetings to in
troduce myself and offer any help 
I that I can.
My office hours are Wednes
days from 6 to 7 pm in Skibo 
Coffeehouse.
I attended the recent Martin 
Luther King Day Program Com
mittee meetings. There will be 
activities in addition to the early 
evening event.
I worked with Spirit of Skibo in 
order to make sure that there will 
be Tartan Towels at Homecoming.
There has been talk about what 
to do with the vacant space un
der Margaret Morrison. If any
one has questions, ideas or sug
gestions, please email me at 
sbp@cmu.edu.
Greek Council (Cyndi 
Vuong): Greek Council is cur
rently sponsoring Greek Letter 
Day this Friday on October 9. 
All Greek members are encourW'f (t>rget to 
frrinft a (runA!
t'ukits punt nAv'ue
50% off 
great travel backpacks! 
Eurailpasses issued 
on the spot!
Plan early for 
Thanksgiving!
ITravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Ave.
Pittsburgh
[412]-683-1881
www.counciltravel.com
aged to wear their letters and 
sign up at the table in front of 
Doherty from 11 am to 3 pm. 
The House with the greatest 
number of signatures, in propor
tion to their total size, will win a 
free pizza party.
Plans for The Haunted Quad 
and Battle of the Bands are un
derway. The Haunted Quad will 
be held on October 31, approxi
mately from 11 am to 3 pm.
Kids will be brought in from 
surrounding school districts for a 
fun-filled afternoon of trick-ortreating and games within the 
quad area. Our goal is to provide 
a safe environment for kids to 
enjoy the Halloween festivities.
Our second philanthropic ac
tivity, Battle of the Bands, is to 
raise money for the Battered 
Womens Shelter. This four hour 
concert will feature selected 
bands from campus and local ar
eas. For more information on 
any of these Greek Council events, 
feel free to contact me via email 
at cyndi@cmu.edu.
Aside from the Greek council, 
the Greek community remains 
acti,ve in its own way. Last week
end, Panhellenic Council had a 
successful turnout at their fall 
formal where they recognized all 
new Greek women on campus.
Kappa Kappa Gamma had an
other successful Kappa Kappa 
Gong show this year  they were 
able to raise approximately $500 
for the Maggee-Womens Hospi
tal Breast Cancer Patient Re
source Fund.
Special Businesses:
The Joint Funding Commitee 
committee has been formed. The 
members of the committee are 
Chris Guerra, Mike Strauss, Joel 
S. and Matt Monroe. The fifth 
member is going to be elected in 
the next Senate meeting.
Approval of Validated 
Petitions:Elizabeth Ferrick, a 
junior psychology major, is ac
cepted as an official Senator rep
resenting H&SS.
Committee Reports: 
Academic Affairs (Amy Ng): 
AA is currently looking at book 
exchange sites for students on 
campus. We are also still looking 
at the textbook return policy at 
the school bookstore.
As a side note update on the 
JobTrak issue that was discussed 
in points of discussion at last sen
ate meeting, the Career Center is 
working on the issue of having 
JobTrak provide more security 
on their site. By the next senate 
meeting, we expect a statement 
from the.Career Center regard
ing this issue.
Campus Affairs (Neil Guzy): 
The committee is working on 
the laundry token problem. 
First, the price of a laundry to
ken went up. Also, sometimes 
the machines eat away tokens 
and the process of getting re
funds for the tokens is compli
cated and inconvenient. We are 
working together with SDC to 
solve this problem.
The committee is also working 
with Housing to improve the con
dition and services of Housing by 
putting together student feedback 
on the new dorm.
Funding and Recognition
(Sern Tham):
F&R will be presenting four 
organizations for recognition.
If KSA and ASA want to make 
any expenses, they would have to 
discuss it with F&R.
Human Resources (Jamie 
Chang):
The committee discussed the
Elections Board, election loca
tions, and election times. We de
cided to hold elections from 10:00 
am to 4:45 pm in front of Doherty 
Hall, with Kirr Commons as the 
rain location. Senate will be vot
ing on these later.
The committee agreed to the 
reapportioning of Senate seats. 
Excomm members agreed with 
the recommendation and the cur
rent Senator list reflects most of 
these changes.
The committee discussed the 
election ballot. We talked about 
several ways to create and layout 
the ballots for the upcoming elec
tions and future elections. We 
plan on picking a method for this 
semester election at tomorrow 
meeting.
The committee began discus
sions on revising the Bylaws. 
We will be setting goals and 
talking about the problems of 
the current Bylaws tomorrow. 
Ideas already given to the com
mittee, but not yet discussed, 
include: changing the name of 
the miscellaneous seat, chang
ing the number of signatures 
required.for a vacancy petition 
to a percentage; making the Vice 
Chair a required office, and 
changing the representative 
fraction number. If anyone has 
ideas, please email them to 
Jamie Chang or to the Human 
Resources dlist. It is: +dist+/ 
afs.andrew /org/senate /HR / 
human.dl.
The new PC arrived last week, 
sooner than expected. Charlie 
Anthe has agreed to be the sys
tem administrator.
Robb Moskowitz finished the 
labels for the inboxes in the Sen
ate office and they have been ap
plied.
We discussed a committee con
tribution to the student body 
presidents newsletter. The com
mittee is going to see that the 
impending Bylaws revision dis
cussions are publicized there.
The HR committee Web page is 
up. There is not a lot on it, but it 
is useful. Thanks to Charlie Anthe 
for writing it for us.
The committee is still working 
with accounts to get the user id 
changed on Senates Andrew ac
count and to get additional project 
volume space on Andrew.
Direct any questions concern
ing the HR Committee or its is
sues to Jamie Chang at 
chang@andrew.cmu.edu, or call 
x2-2695.
Public Relations (Joshua 
Merry):
The committee is working on 
advertising the up coming Stu
dent Senate election. Fliers are 
ready in University Center.
We are going to have a booth for 
the Activity Fair.
Chair (Drew Stovall):
Keycards are ready.
New Business from Commit
tee:
HR:
Approval of election time from 
10:00 am to 4:45 pm accepted by 
voice vote. Jeffrey R. Thibert is 
appointed as the Election Board 
Chair by handvote (16 in favor).
F&R:
F98-007  Funded Recogni
tion of The Photography Club The 
purpose of The Photography Club 
is to allow CMU students, faculty 
members, or employees to learn 
about and enjoy the art of photog
raphy in a self-paced, unre
strained environment.
F98-008  Non-Funded Rec
ognition of BUDAYA. BUDAYA 
is essentially the Malaysian Cul
tural Organization, and will pro
mote the celebration of Malay
sian culture.
F98-009  Non-Funded Rec
ognition of Orthodox Christian 
Fellowship. Orthodox Christian 
Fellowship seeks to establish a 
profound and lasting fellowship 
among the Orthodox Christians 
in CMU.
F98-010  Funded Recogni
tion of Fiesta de Primavera Com
mittee. Fiesta de Primaveras 
mission is to plan and execute 
Fiesta de Primavera, the last day 
of classes party at the end of each 
academic year. Membership in 
the committee will be open to 
anyone eligible to participate in 
extra-curricular activities.
New Business:
Prashanth Mekala is approved 
to be a new member of Student 
Senate.
Points of Discussion:
Jamie Chang mentioned that 
the discussion on Bylaws revi
sions is on the student govern
ment bboard.
Senator Guerra brings up the 
issue of the 3D porn movie showed 
on October 4 during the sleeping 
bag weekend. Shubo Mookerjee, 
AB Chair, also discussed the is
sue in detail.
Announcement:
Academic Affairs Committee 
will discuss the projects that we 
are working on this semester on 
WRTC 88.3 FM on Wednesday 
from 6 to 7 pm. If any senators 
want to say something, join us in 
our discussion.
Meeting adjourned at 9:00 pm 
by voice vote.
Submitted by 
PAULA RUMLI 
Edited by 
NATHAN STEINWALD
AulhisAND
A PAYCHECK
The fun does not have to stop when the 
paychecks start. Especially when you join 
Adobe. We offer big company success with a 
small-company attitude. Of course, we did not 
become one of the world's largest personal 
computer software developers without lots of 
hard work. But when your products lead the
industry year after year, enriching the way 
everyone communicates, you have plenty to 
smile about. So if you agree that it's possible to 
have fun while doing interesting and creative 
work, Adobe may be the place for you. To learn 
more about opportunities at Adobe, visit the 
Career Center and sign up for an interview.
INFO SESSION
Mon, Nov. 9, 8:00-9:00 pm 
Hammerschlag Hall B131 
Adobe Illustrator* or Adobe Photoshop* will be raffled off to a lucky winner!
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Tues & Wed, Nov. 10 & 11
www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/employmentopp/college/main.html
Adobe prefers resumes in the body of an e-mail (no attachments) sent to jobs@adobe.com or mail 
scannable resumes to: Adobe Systems Incorporated, College Recruiting, Dept. COLRE9899, 345 Park 
Avenue, San Jose, CA 95110-2711. Adobe is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.
Adobe, the Adobe logo and all Adobe products are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 01998 Adobe Systems Incorporated.All rights reserved.
Council

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
EMBEMAIL BOXES ETC" $ 10% off $
jjfe with this ad - 
687-6100 
STUDENT SPECIALS
Private Mall Receiving "Send or Receive Fax
Low Long Distance Phone Rates
UPS, FedEx and DHL  Photocopying Services
414 S. Craig St. (near Forbes Ave & Carnegie Mellon)BMAILBOXESOVERNIGHTOFFICESUPPLIES
Career] am 98
'X'ecti-isiYork
The Career Forum specifically designed for students with 
technical backgrounds!
Class of "99 and '00 
Facilitate Your Internship & Full-Time Job Search!
WJ&iDecember 10,1998 
10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
NY Marriott World Trade Center 
85 West Steet 
New York City, NY
Registration is I RI I . .nil cm line! lor P RHR registration and to be 
eligible lor tirsi round interview-;, candidates must pre register on
line at
www.careerjam.com!
Meet unci network with Inms in conniltiniu tinnncc. hii*h' ice li, ;inJ 
mon'! lor more information, e m.ul cjm^S f/pop.net
REGISTRATION DEADLINE:
Oc to ber 23, 1998
201 Broadway Cambridge, MA 02139 tel. 617-761-9150 
cjny98@pop.net
Andy Awards honor staff who exceed community expectations
By SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI
Tartan Staffwriter
The Andy Awards were presented on 
Wednesday, October 7, in McConomy 
Auditorium. The awards were given in 
three categories: Process Improvement, 
Satisfying Customers, and University 
Citizenship.
The Andy Awards are an annual event 
designed to recognize performance above 
and beyond the normal job requirements. 
Any Carnegie Mellon staff member, fac
ulty member, undergraduate, or gradu
ate student may submit a nomination 
for a staff member or team in the desig
nated categories. The nomination pro
cess began last year and ended on July 1. 
Staff members are evaluated in the con
text of their own job parameters. Indi
vidual winners received $750, and teams 
received $1500 to divide among the team 
members. An additional $250 will be 
donated to the charity designated by the 
University Citizenship Award winner.
Elizabeth Casale, the associate direc
tor for financial aid in the Heinz School, 
received the individual award for Ex
cellence in Satisfying Customers. Four 
years ago, the financial aid services 
had been ranked lowest on student sur
veys of University services. During the 
past four years that Casale has worked 
in the office, rankings for financial aid 
have risen.
The team award for Excellence in Sat
isfying Customers went to Housing Ser
vices: Dan Askin, Tom Brooks, Ida 
Czarnecki, Rose DeCarpio, Kevin 
Gemeinhart, Adria Greene, Adam 
Homer, Denny Horner, Kari Malpas, 
Tim Michael, David Myers, Lorrie Safar, 
Norma Shaw, Scott Shields, Pat Svitko, 
Carol Wilhelm, and Bob Wilson.
In the past three years, we have 
made general advancements, said 
Dave Myers, the associate director for 
Housing Services. We have definitely 
improved the level and quality of ser
vice for students. We receive and
handle maintenance requests differ
ently and the student information sys
tem manages the billing systems much 
more efficiently.
The most visible change in efforts has 
been the facility improvements over the 
last three years, said Timothy Michael, 
director of Housing Services. Since 1996, 
we have spent almost $7 million on en
hancements to various campus housing 
buildings. Three years ago when we be
gan our strategic planning, we knew we 
needed to improve as a housing opera
tion to better meet the needs and expec
tations of the high-caliber students Car
negie Mellon attracts. This Andy Award 
is recognition of a job well done so far 
and an additional motivator to achieve 
even more of our goals for future.
Josh Frederick, the systems adminis
trator for the University Shoppe, re
ceived the Excellence in Process Im
provement Award.
We installed a point of sale system in 
the University Shoppe, said Frederick.
This enhanced customer service and 
sped up the cash register processes to 
scan books and get prices. Before we had 
this system, we had no real computers or 
scanners to track the inventory. We had 
a limited time frame to install a working 
system, and we have been working on it 
for the past one and a half years. We 
basically modified the system which 
changed most of the back-house account
ing. It was an honor to receive the award, 
and I enjoyed working on this project.
The team award for Excellence in Pro
cess Improvement went to the Web Jour
nal Entry Team: James Gartner, David 
Kosslow, and Joyce Moore.
We took a paper-based process and 
made it an easy to use Web based form, 
said Kosslow. There is now a big differ
ence in how we process the financial 
data. People like to use the Web. The 
paper process was always prone to er
rors, and now we can do a lot of the error 
checking even before it gets processed. 
This system handles most of the finan
cial services in the University. We spent 
about six months on this project: three 
months on development and three 
months on implementation. It was nice 
to receive recognition for this good teambased project. It was fun coming up with 
a good way to design and implement the 
new process.
This year, Denise Murrin-Macey, the 
business manager in Engineering and 
Public Policy, won the award for Excel
lence in University Citizenship. MurrinMacey has been on the Staff Council for 
the past eight years. She has a concern 
for the staff and wants to make it a 
better place for the University.
I love Carnegie Mellon and have al
ways thought of the University as more 
than a job. I feel like a part of the whole 
University, said Murrin-Macey.
Human Resources will begin to collect 
nominations again in January for next 
year. In July the nominations will be 
closed. Any member of the University 
can make a nomination.
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
Pattern of anit-gay violence emerges across country
VIGIL, from page 1
crimes legislation.
Across the country, the debate rages over 
gay and lesbian rights, violence against 
gay people, and hate crime legislation. A 
bill currently in Congress would provide 
protection against hate crimes at a na
tional level. However, passage of the bill 
seems unlikely given current political con
ditions. Wyoming does not have any hate 
crimes legislation, and many of the states 
that do fail to cover sexual orientation.
Pennsylvania is an example of a state 
with hate crime legislation that does not 
cover crimes committed because of the 
victims sexual orientation. A number of gay 
rights groups are pressuring Governor Tom 
Ridge to expand the existing legislation.
When [Ridge] was first elected, he prom
ised that he would expand hate crimes 
legislation to protect gays, but it still 
doesnt, said Baker.
The attack on Shepard was originally 
ruled a robbery by the police in Laramie; 
however, it has become clear that Matthew 
Shepard was lulled because he was gay.
Shepards murder has captured national 
attention, but it is not an isolated case of 
hate crimes against gays. According to the 
Wasington Post, in 1996 at least 27 gay 
people were murdered in apparent hate 
crimes. In Schenley Park 10 years ago a 
gay man named David Piergalski was 
beaten to death. It is unclear why Shepards 
murder is such a catalyst, but it has served 
to bring gay rights and anti-gay attitudes 
to the forefront of an American conscious
ness that has often ignored the issue.
In Washington, D.C., a vitriolic debate 
over homosexuals and the way that politi
cal and religious conservatives character
ize homosexuals in public has also grown in 
the wake of Shepards death.
More than anything, participants in the 
vigil wanted an end to the violence that the 
gay community has been confronted with 
in. the United States.
We have become a community of 
candlelight vigils, said Billy Hileman, a 
writer from Planet Q. Im sick of this 
epidemic of violence.Lisette Mlller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Students read from various religious texts during the vigil last Saturday night in front of the fence.

---------------------------------------------------

Make A ifferenc
1?0d VrC^A
Ple asDE
PEOPLE,
OURCallendr.
i$nt SO
LIVABLE.
United Vtfey
of Southwestern Pennsylvania
You can help.
By giving through United Way, you're supporting over 300 
different human service programs. Programs that meet the 
needs of people living right here in our community.
Put your money where your heart Is.
For a semester, (or a year, for a lifetime: 
THERES NO PLACE LIKE AUP.
The education is American.
The mix is internaltonal.
The setting is Paris. 
Th advantage is yours.
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF PARIS
Paris: 31, avenue Bosquet. 75343 Paris cedex 07.I ranee  (33/1 ) 40.62.07.20 New York: 60 Hast 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017  (212) 983-1414 
wmv.aup.cdU  admts5J0ns@aup.edu * nyoflicc^aup.cdu
IN
Information drives our economy and 
enriches our lives.
With a graduate degree from the 
University of Michigan's School of In
formation, you can expect to shape the 
future of information systems and ser
vices in corporations, universities, com
munities, government, and nonprofit or
ganizations. You can expect to make a 
difference.
Recent SI graduates consult for For
tune 500 companies, manage a movie 
studio's creative assets, launch success
ful information start-ups, and develop new digi
tal library collections and services. From archi
vist to webmaster, from community Information 
specialist to information entrepreneur, SI proSchool of Information
University of Michigan 
734.763.2285
vldes the training you'll need to take a lead
ing role In the age of knowledge.
In our dynamic two-year master's pro
gram, students from diverse academic 
backgrounds  humanities, computers, 
math and social sciences  gain direct 
access to our world-class faculty and fa
cilities. Our innovative doctoral program 
prepares you for a research career at 
the leading edge of this emerging dis
cipline.
There's a whole new world of In
formation out there. Someone's got 
to take charge of it.
Graduate Studies in Information 
www.si.umich.edu
INFORMATION
THE TAKTAN
online
687 6-10- 4F u1nky 0n -nkt7 087 y7rk0 na 40F r1-y 7d i7r 
F407o d84t8 a7-0k17F - ns47 7y404n na 087 tk1170 4FFk7o 
-1t84f7F na u-F0 4FFk7Fo -y ekt8 en17c
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu/
Soup Mixes  Canned Fruits & 'Vegetables  Pasta.  Rice * Cereal  Cake Mixes  Soap  Toothpaste  Condiments
The Food Drive Committee along with the members of Staff Council 
invite all members of the campus community to join together and help
Make A Difference
by donating non-perishable items to the
Carnegie MellonStaf|f
November 2-13
with a special 
ONE DAY - ONE CAN 
collection on November 10
Pancake Mix  Infant Formula  Laundry Cleaning Supp
Tonight hundreds of people in our 
town will go hungry. Staff Council 
in vitesyou to make a difference and...

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
Former Carnegie Mellon president dies of cancer
CYERT, from page 1
in debt and devoid of national 
recognition. But during Cyerts 
18 years as president, the insti
tution flourished. It expanded 
academically with the addition of 
the School of Computer Science 
and the Robotics Institute. It also 
became a world-renowned re
search university by increasing 
research funding from $13 mil
lion in 1972 to more than $100 
million dollars at the end of 
Cyerts presidency and acquiring 
the Software Engineering Insti
tute from the U.S. Department of 
Defense. Financially, the schools 
endowment grew to nearly $300 
million by 1990.
If students look through the 
[University] catalog and try to 
imagine what CMU would have 
been like effectively half its size 
in terms of activity and even 
smaller in terms of prominence, 
thats what it was like when Cyert became president, said cur
rent University President Jared
Cohon. Consider what its like 
today, and say thank you.
Cohon met Cyert on several 
occasions since becoming presi
dent of CMU, but he wishes it 
would have been more.
The period of his presidency 
was, without question, the pe
riod of the most extensive and 
rapid rise in the stature of the 
University.... The aspect of his 
management style that had to do 
with [the rise] was his idea of 
comparative advantage, or un
derstanding what we as a Uni
versity did better than any oth
ers, and supporting and strengtheningthat. It worked beautifully.
One of the ways in which Cyert 
felt the campus had an advantage 
over others was technology and 
computer science. He was instru
mental in developing Andrew, the 
first network to link the entire 
campus together via computer.
Everyone is ho-hum about 
[networking] now, but we were 
there at the beginning, said Herb
Simon, computer science and psy
chology professor, Nobel laure
ate and Cyerts colleague. It took 
a great deal of courage for [Cyert] 
to say, This is where technology 
is going. Any good leadership in
volves taking risks  he was able 
to do that.
According to Simon, Cyert had 
to prove that an economist could 
run a school primarily focused on 
technology  the five presidents 
before him had all been engineers 
or scientists. Cyert convinced those 
who questioned him was by em
phasizing an interdisciplinary ap
proach to academics and research.
People on this campus work 
interdisciplinarily much more ef
fectively than any other univer
sity in the country, said 
Fetkovich. I cant say who all 
contributed to this atmosphere, 
but I think Cyert was one of the 
most important to do so.
Gerald Costanzo, English pro
fessor and editor of the Carnegie 
Mellon University Press, said that
Cyert was one of the most bril
liant people he had ever met. When 
Cyert was first elected president, 
Costanzo was working for the 
Three Rivers Poetry Journal.
In the spring of 1973, Cyert in
vited me to his office, and there was 
a copy of the Three Rivers Poetry 
Journal on his . desk. Realizing I 
hadnt given it to him, it became 
clear that he had bought it in a book 
store.... There was no reason for 
him to care about poetry. But every 
time I saw him he had something 
new to tell me about it.
During his years as president, 
Cyert was described as standoff
ish and shy. Those who knew 
him well, like Simon and 
Costanzo, said that Cyert was a 
very good listener but that he 
was not very comfortable with 
the public aspects of his position 
as president. One of the few times 
as president that he was out
wardly emotional was during his 
resignation speech to the Uni
versity community in 1989. He
broke down when telling the 
crowd, It is not an easy decision 
to leave a job which I love. My 
heart tells me to stay on and on, 
but my brain tells me that the 
time to leave has come.
My sense of him was that he 
was great for the school and that 
he was not a showman, said Jef
frey Zaslow, a CMU alum, class 
of1980. Some college presidents, 
all they want to do is stand up in 
front of you and beat their chests. 
Sometimes that can be good for 
the school, but sometimes it 
isnt.... I have warm recollections 
of [Cyert] as someone who de
voted his life to the college. 
After his presidency, Cyert de
voted his time to teaching and 
maintaining city-wide positions 
begun while at CMU. He was on 
the Pirates board of directors and 
is credited with helping to develop 
the 1995 deal that kept the Pirates 
in Pittsburgh. He also headed the 
Carnegie Bosch Institute, an asso
ciation created to improve interna
tional management.
But accordingto Simor, the time 
when Cyert was the hapriest was 
when he was running th> Univer
sity. He just loved everjaspect of 
it. There was no lack of jroblems 
to deal with and no lack of variety 
in the kind of things he was in
volved in, said Simon. [There 
were] all sorts of challenges, and 
challenges were what heliked. 
By the time he ended h's presi
dency, I think not only he, but 
also. many others arornd here 
thought that he was Cu-negie 
Mellon and Carnegie Melon was 
him  they were so insepaable, 
said Fetkovich. His wh)le life 
revolved around this Uni/ersity 
and its success.
A memorial service for Cyert 
will be held November 9 it 1:30 
pm in McConomy auditorium. 
The family asks that menorial 
contributions be made to tfe Car
negie Mellon library or :o the 
Pittsburgh Cancer Institite at 
the University of Pittsburgh.
July 22.19211941September, 19461948
Richard Michael Cyert is born 
in Winona, Minnesota. He is 
the oldest of three children.
After Graduating from the 
University of Minnesota with a 
degree in economics, Cyert 
joins the Navy as a midshipman
Cyert marries Margaret Shadick after a four month courtship. They 
move to New York City, where Cyert receives a doctoral degree in 
economics and teaches at the City College of New York
At the age of 27, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology hires Cyert 
as an instructor of economics. Cyert and 
his wife move to Pittsburgh for what he 
thinks is a temporary position.
Carnegie Tech merges with Mellon 
Institute to become Carnegie 
Mellon University
Richard Cyert becomes the sixth president of 
Carnegie Mellon University. He inherits a yearly 
operating deficit of $800,00 and an overall deficit 
of $1 million.
Herb Simon receives the Nobel Prize in economics. | 
1979
With the help of IBM funding, 
Carnegie Mellon launches Andrew, 
a campus-wide computer network.
1988
Carnegie Mellon upgrades the Department of Computer 
Science to the School of Computer Science.
May, 1988
East campus construction begins, including 
Resnik and West Wing dormitories, Gesling Stadium, 
and parking garage. Plans were also finalized for 
construction of Posner Hall, the University Center, 
and the Purnell Center.
CMU establishes the Robotics Insitute|
1984
The U.&. Department of befense awards the Software Engineering
Institute (SEI) Carnegie Mellon University. It opens in 1987.
1992______________________
Cyert is diagnosed with cance]
1998
Richard Cyert resigns as Carnegie Mellon University 
president, effective June 30, 1990. He 
continues to teach economics and management. 
Robert Mehrabian becomes the seventh 
president of the University on July 1,1990.
1990
At 74, Cyert helps orchestrate the deal 
between Heinz Chairman Anthony J.F. 
O'Reilly and Pirates owner Kevin McClatchy 
to keep the Pirates in Pittsburgh.
I Richard Cyert succumbs to cancer at the age of 77.
Cyert and the University settle out of court on 
a sexual harassment charge brought against the 
former president. Despite the settlement, Cyert 
and the University maintain Cyert's innocence.Sources: GSIA's 40th Anniversary celebration: 1990 pamphlet, CMU Web sites, Tartan archives.
Crime and Incident Report
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Edito
10/4 UNDERAGE CON
SUMPTION, 2:58 am - A Cam
pus Police officer on fraternity 
patrol saw a male being led by 
the arm, unable to walk on his 
own. The actor was stopped and 
identified as a CMU student. He 
smelled of alcohol and admitted 
to drinking.
The man who accompanied the 
actor identified himself as a priest 
and a fraternity alumnus. He said
that the actor entered his former 
fraternity through the rear door 
and began vomiting. After allow
ing the actor to somewhat com
pose himself, the priest offered to 
walk the Hamerschlag House 
resident to his dorm room.
The officer asked the actor where 
he had been drinking, but he could 
not remember anything but the 
first Greek letter. The officer, 
aware of CMUs fraternity names,
gave the names of the two frater
nities that begin with that par
ticular Greek letter. The actor said 
that it was the latter of the-two, 
which happened to be the priests 
fraternity. The priest overheard 
the actor say this and told the 
officer that the actor had not been 
drinking at his fraternity. The of
ficer explained to the priest that 
his statement may be a conflict of 
interests. The priest said that he 
understood and then reiterated 
the fact that he is a priest. The 
officer transported the actor to his 
dormitory room after issuing him 
a non-traffic citation for the un
derage consumption of alcohol.
10/6 MEDICAL,4:36 pm - A 
Campus Police officer responded 
to the Wean Hall seventh floor 
womens restroom, where CMU 
EMS were evaluating a CMU 
student. The victim said that 
she had eaten noodles and wine 
sauce at Highlander Cafe. An 
hour later she began feeling 
dizzy and nauseous and felt se
vere stomach pain. She said she 
also had vomited several times. 
The officer took her to Health 
Services.
10/10 MARI JUANA,11:26 pm 
 Four Campus Police officers 
went to a Morewood Gardens
il s p i r c d M i ' il s \V ;i n led.
Where you work should be 
a place that inspires the mind. 
Imagine that.
Visit www.EDS-Imagine IT.com 
and ask yourself,
rj wft) a. Jynspi\trej
A more productive way of working
EDS&the EDS logo are registered marks of Elect runic Data Systems Corporation.
EDS is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/v/d. 01998 Electronic Data Systems Corporation. All rights reserved.
room upon smelling an odor of 
marijuana on the B-Tower hall. 
After sniffing several doorjambs, 
the officers determined from 
which room the smell was ema
nating and knocked on its door. 
There was no answer, so one of
ficer used his key to enter the 
room. The room was not occu
pied, but the smell of marijuana 
was much stronger inside. There 
was a glass containing a number 
of cigarette butts, several stems, 
and a partially burnt paper that 
smelled of the prohibited plant.
Because of the evidence found 
in plain view, the officers con
ducted a search of the room. They 
found a multi-colored bong, an 
oval-shaped picture of a male 
holding the said bong, a plastic 
bag containing a grassy sub
stance, and a glass bowl. All these 
items were confiscated and placed
in the temporary evidence lockeri 
One of the officers conducted a 
marijuana test on the grassy subf 
stance and it proved positive. !
At 2:09 am, two officers wen 
dispatched to Morewood Garden! 
to unlock the very room the offic 
ers had searched. They met th< 
resident of the dorm outside hi 
locked door. He admitted tha 
the bong and the bowl were his 
He explained that both he an< 
his roommate had lost their ke) 
and, consequently, they leav 
their room unlocked. He said tha 
his friends know that his room i 
unlocked, so they use it to smok 
tobacco and marijuana.
The officer informed the acto 
that he was responsible for an; 
actions that take place within hi 
room. He was then issued an in 
ternal citation for the possessio 
of marijuana.
The Department of Philosophy
announces the availability of
$3,000 Undergraduate 
Research Fellowships
in the new
Laboratory for Symbolic 
and Educational Computing
For information, see 
http://hss.cmu.edu/philosophy/center.html

---------------------------------------------------

undergraduate
fr ipppsumm
a% web.cmu.edu 
web.cmu.edu 
http:lltartan.web.cmu.edu 
http:iJtart<m4web.cmu.edu 
ittp:lltartan%eb.cmu.edu
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu 
ittp:l/tar; 
ittjr.Htar
Improve Your Health Naturally at Pittsburghs convicnicnt natural food store
Featuring:Natural and Organic Food Vitamins and Supplements Organic Produce Natural Health Aids and Beauty Aids
5401 Baum Blvd. at S. Aiken 
Shadyside
683-7035
Open 7 Days a Week 
FREE PARKING!
STUDY IN
OXFORD
Live with British 
students in the very 
center of Oxford 
as an Associate 
Student of a medieval 
Oxford college.
Summer and graduate study 
available. Since 1985, 
students from 240 leading 
U.S. Colleges have studied in 
Oxford through W.I.S.C.
Washington International 
Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.K.
(Suite 370)
Washington, D.C. 20002 
Phone Number: (202) 547-3275 
Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC 
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470 
E-mail: wisc@erols.com
OPEN FOR LUNCH 
AT 11 AM.
SMALL 2-TOPPING:; SUB FOR PIZZA AND TWO :: 
HI CANS OF SODA^:add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99! * *
151 ANY HOT SUB, ONE 
BREADSTICKS AND ONE OKN OF SODA 
add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order. 
Please mention coupon vrhcn ordering. Expires 6/30/99
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
 a 
JB . 
i a B 
a a
CHEF SALAD, ONE ORDER:; 
ESHOF BREADSTICKS AND: :| 
ONE CAN OF SODA ::
add an order of 16 wings for only $4.991 : J
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.  B
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
LUNCH FOR TWO
SSI SMALL 1-TOPPING PIZZA, 
1 ONE ORDER OF BREADSTICKS 
AND TWO CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Not valid wtth any other offer. One coupon per order.
Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
iM if il m Ml lill iVJI
LIMITED DELIVERY AREAMINIMUM DELIVERY $550  PRICES AND MENU MAY VARY PER LOCATION.
JENGA: 1986 Pokonobe Associates. Product is manufactured under license Irom Irwin Toy LTD. which is a licensee ol Pokonobe Associates.
Over 1,000 
graduate
courses.
including
accounting
acting
biology
chemistry
cinema studies
computer science
counseling
dance
dramatic writing
economics
educational theatre
cnglish
finance
film and 
rv production
fine arts
interactive 
teleco m m u n i ca t i o ns
journalism
languages
marketing
mathematics
music
nutrition 
photography 
physics 
psychology 
special education 
speech 
studio art 
and more...
General or 
specialized 
programs 
worldwide!
Amsterdam
Athens
Barcelona
Beijing
Cambridge
Cape Town
Cork
Dublin
Florence
Geneva
London
Lund
Lyons
Madrid
Munich
6
Oxford UP*
"I
Paris
Pisaaj
Prague 
Rio de Janeiro 
Sofia 
Venice 
York
Free Summer Bulletin:
1-800-771-4NYU, ext. A49
9 a.m.-5 p.m., Mon.-Fri., ESTwww.nyu.edu/summer99/
New York University is an affirmative ..ction/equal opportunity institution.
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER
technology is the business.
At Morgan Stanley Dean witter, Information Technology is the 
foundation of our business. That's why this year alone 
we've invested more than S1 billion on technology that 
drives our businesses day to day. We know that technology 
gives us our competitive edge. That the future winners in our 
business will be the frontrunners in technology. If you want to 
build your rr career on a solid foundation, there's nowhere to go 
but up at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
information technology training program
information Session
Wednesday, October 21 
6:30PM-8:00PM 
Scaife Hall 
Room 212
Bring copies of your resume, 
transcripts, dress casual.
Refreshments will be served.
interviews
Thursday, October 22
We're looking for all majors who are interested in solving 
business problems through technology. Stop by and meet our 
hiring managers. Learn first-hand about our intensive 18-week 
training program. It's the top training program on the Street.
if youre unable to attend, but want to know more about a 
career in technology at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, contact us 
directly at: Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, information 
Technology College Recruitment, 750 Seventh 
Avenue,15th Floor, New York, NY 10019. Visit our 
web site at: http://www.ms.com An Equal 
Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University19 October 1998
Career Center must 
implement new system
TartanTRAK, the new online 
job-search program that was sup
posed to be convenient method 
for explorin job opportunities ef
fectively, has turned into a night
mare for students, recruiters, and 
the University as a whole. While 
objections to the ineffective data
base have increased throughout 
this semester, the Career Center 
continues to insist that the sys
tem should be the primary source 
that students and companies turn 
to for recruitment information.
The Career Center has done 
nothing to offer an alternative to 
TartanTRAK during this heavy 
recruitment season. Conse
quently, some companies are can
celing recruitment efforts or re
fusing to use the Career Center, 
and some students are losing job 
opportunities. The Career Center 
needs to listen to what students 
and companies are saying  es
tablish and implement an imme
diate alternative to TartanTRAK 
until the databases problems 
have been worked out.
Over 30 companies, including 
Xerox and Oracle, have canceled 
their on-campus interviews and/ 
or information sessions so far this 
semester. This leads to specula
tion that TartanTRAK is a major 
cause for the dramatic increase in 
on-campus recruiting and infor
mation session cancellations. 
Some students have even received 
letters from large firms like 
Andersen Consulting, advising 
them to deal directly with the 
company since these firms have 
decided to bypass the Career Cen
ter altogether for on-campus re
cruiting. This aversion to work
ing through the outlets which the 
Career Center provides reflects 
poorly upon the University. It also 
makes a students job search just 
as complicated as it was before 
the inception of TartanTRAK.
TartanTRAK is designed and 
maintained by JOBTRAK, a Los 
Angeles-based company. The Ca
reer Center claims that employ
ers and recruiters will be familiar 
with TartanTRAKs drawbacks, 
as similar systems maintained by 
this company are currently being 
beta tested at nineteen other 
prominent schools, including MIT. 
The center of TartanTRAKs prob
lems lies in this excuse  while 
other schools are testing their jobsearching database, CMU imple
mented its not only without test
ing but also without any 
student input.
These problems represent only a 
fraction of the Career Centers in
adequacies and mistakes. The 
Center has also deserves criticism 
for distributing personal student 
information, including social se
curity numbers, to recruiting agen
cies, as well as for its refusal to 
address student concerns quickly.
Clearly no parties involved are 
satisfied with the current system, 
and the Career Centers reluc
tance to remedy this situation of 
immediate importance is simply 
irresponsible. They must devise 
an alternative to TartanTRAKimmediately, before another student 
loses a job opportunity and an
other recruiter decides that 
Carnegie Mellon students arent 
worth the hassle.
Undergraduate TAs need 
increased office space
While CMUs Eberly Center for 
Teaching Excellence has recently 
made some significant efforts to 
improve the performance of teach
ing assistants (TAs), space restric
tions and poor planning prevent 
TAs from being as effective as 
they could be. Undergraduate TAs 
in particular are often forced to 
hold their office hours in small 
spaces that are shared with many 
other TAs  an environment that 
is hardly conducive to making stu
dents feel comfortable enough to 
seek assistance.
The handbook for TAs recently 
published by the Eberly Center 
provides some tips for TAs to en
courage students to seek help and 
to feel comfortable in doing so. 
But its difficult to do this when a 
TA has inadequate facilities in 
which to hold office hours. Cur-, 
rent space limitations force TAs 
to conduct office hours in the pres
ence of other TAs and students in 
mall, overcrowded offices or in 
lounge spaces or hallways. Such 
environments can intimidate stu
dents and make them feel like 
they are intruding on others 
space. This may make them un
likely to return to office hours to 
seek out the help they need.
Undergraduate TAs often assist 
With large introductory classes. 
Students who take these courses 
often major in other subjects or 
have almost no background in the 
field, making it extremely impor
tant to have TAs available at ap
propriate locations at convenient
Redesigned money just looks funny
times. Students who sincerely need 
help should not feel like they cant 
receive it because they do not feel 
comfortable going to their TAs 
apartment for office hours.
Although the limited number of 
office spaces and classrooms on 
campus is a problem that doesnt 
seem likely to go away any time 
soon, faculty and administration 
can take several steps to better 
govern the use of these resources. 
If TA programming were a Uni
versity-wide effort with basic 
space guidelines for all TAs, it 
could enhance the way office space 
is planned and allotted. TAs who 
share an office should also work 
out schedules of when each one 
plans to hold their office hours. 
By becoming better organized, 
TAs can stagger the times the 
office space is used and thus pro
vide students with a semi-private 
teaching and consultation area. 
Some of the larger office spaces 
could also be physically divided 
into cubicles to establish a better 
separation of space. In addition, 
the lack of office space should be 
considered as campus expansion 
is being planned.
TAs play a major role in many 
fundamental courses that every 
CMU student must take. And the 
number of undergraduate TAs 
keeps increasing every year. Until 
the students who hold these im
portant positions have adequate 
space in which to work, recent 
efforts to improve the overall ef
fectiveness of TAs will be futile.
________Robert Jefferson
Well, its not all just about 
the Benjamins. Its about the 
Grants, and now about the 
Jacksons, too. If youve been 
drawing money from MAC 
machines over the past few 
weeks, you know what I 
mean. The government, in 
an effort to combat the forces 
that counterfeit money, is in 
the middle of redesigning its 
currency. Starting with $100 
bills a few years ago, the re
design has continued on to 
$20 bills.
' Unfortunately, the rede
sign leaves much to be de
sired. Previous money looked 
dignified; there were lots of 
ornate patterns and a sort of 
stateliness that sent the mes
sage that this light-green 
piece of paper was actually 
worth something. There was 
something believable about 
the money; all the pieces were 
the same size and color, un
like the nightmarish curren
cies of some of the European 
countries. (Imagine trying to 
keep track of different-sized 
and colored pieces of paper in 
your pockets, especially if 
they get mixed in with other
pieces of paper, some of which 
cant get you food.)
The new currency is diffi
cult to take seriously. The 
money has lost its dignity, 
reminding me of those fake 
bills that people give as gag
ing, larger pictures, and even 
a sans serif number 20 on 
the back. Were it not for the 
fact that difficult-to-copy inks 
and a watermark are used on 
the bill, Id be certainly hardpressed to believe that it would
gifts. In fact, when I first saw 
one of these bills, my instinct 
was to inspect it to see if there 
was a disclaimer that said, 
Not legal tender.
The bill is extremely exag
gerated, with bigger letterJames Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
be more difficult to reproduce. 
On the contrary: With larger 
pictures and a font that can be 
found in any decent word processor, I would daresay 
that its easier to counterfeit 
such bills.
Why would the government 
issue money that bears very 
little resemblence to its pre
vious currency? Further, why 
would they make it look silly 
enough to be a parody of 
money? After all, even if ev
erything else were the same, 
the sans serif number is just 
too modern and informal for
omething traditionally 
stately and ornate.
One theory is that the gov
ernment has finally realized 
that modern money is fiat 
money; in other words, its not 
backed by anything. Thus, the 
value it serves in our economy 
is determined by the govern
ment. In such a case, it doesnt 
really matter what the paper 
looks like. As long as the pa
per is government-approved 
and is difficult enough to coun
terfeit to curb inflation, it can 
serve as moriey.
Thus, why should the gov
ernment go by simple half
measures? Why not just dis
pense with the formality alto
gether? The Treasury Depart
ment could make money more 
interesting to own by follow
ing the examples of popular 
board games such as Mo
nopoly. In addition to making 
the money in different colors, 
why use ornate fonts for the 
Please see MONEY, page 9
Jewish-born nun raises Holocaust issues
Nick Fox-Gieg
Last week, the Catholic Church el
evated a woman to sainthood without 
acknowledging that, as an organization, 
it helped speed her on to Heaven prema
turely. To begin to explain what makes 
this situation particularly controversial, 
I only need to mention the original name 
of the newly-minted St. Teresia
Benedicta  Edith Stein. Born ______
in Germany at the turn of the 
century, she embarked on a 
promising scholarly career in 
philosophy; however, as a 
woman and a Jew, she was 
blocked from advancement in 
academia, and she eventually 
gave up her studies, converted 
to Catholicism, and entered a 
convent. Unfortunately, her 
change of faith didnt protect 
her from the Nazis. She fled to the Neth
erlands but was ultimately tracked down 
by the Gestapo and deported to 
Auschwitz, where she died by gas in 
1942. Pope John Paul II has publicly 
stated his intention to improve Christian-Jewish relations with this fiercely 
contested canonization, but the world 
Jewish community hasnt exactly 
rushed to express its gratitude for 
his attentions.
Consciously or not, the Churchs ac
tions are tainted with hypocrisy. The 
organization has lent overt support to 
dictators throughout its history, in this 
century most notably to Franco and 
Mussolini. While Hitler, himself raised
a strict Catholic, didnt court the Church 
in the way that his Fascist contemporar
ies did, Catholic officials directly and 
indirectly aided the Nazi regime in its 
machinations. While its pointless to 
argue the actual validity of Steins saint
hood (the Church says she proved her
self in 1987 by miraculously healing a 
two-and-a-half-year-old American girl, 
a statement that cant be contested by 
any rational argument), its worthwhile 
to call attention to the confused logic 
behind the assertion that this choice 
was a sincere reaching-out to Judaism.
The Church is trying to have it 
both ways, expressing its regret 
over the un-Christian abomination 
of the Holocaust while trying to 
recast itself in the role of victim. 
Despite the Popes affirmations of good
will, the fact remains that Stein is listed 
on the Roll Call of the Saved with a Latin 
name, not a Jewish one. The Church is 
trying to have it both ways, expressing 
its regret over the un-Christian abomi
nation of the Holocaust while trying to 
recast itself in the role of victim.
On the other hand, American Jewish 
criticism of this event takes a tone which 
I find unsettling. The director of the 
Anti-Defamation League was quoted in 
The New York Times as saying that the 
canonization was another step towards 
Christianizing or universalizing the 
Holocaust. Hes referring to two very 
different issues as if they were one. and
the same. Christianizing and 
downplaying the Churchs role in the 
carnage are undoubtedly bad things. 
However, why shouldnt the Holocaust 
be referred to in universal terms? Voices 
within the Jewish community arguing 
for a broader approach are often hushed, 
for fear theyll eclipse the fact that Jews 
were not only the primary target of 
the Holocaust, but also the only group 
among the multitudes fed to the gas 
chamber who were explicitly intended 
for total extermination.
The understandable sensitivity of the
___________ issue tends to cast an
unflattering light on re
visionist attitudes in 
general, on the process 
of holding up established 
ideas to scrutiny and re
examining them. The 
self-styled Holocaust re
visionists, who essen
tially claim that the 
whole thing was a clever 
hoax, should be criticized 
for scientific dishonesty, for distorting 
all available evidence to fit their per
sonal prejudices, but not for the mere act 
of challenging an accepted belief. I once 
heard an excellent argument that the 
many other minority groups who were 
swallowed up by the momentum of the 
death machine in effect became Jews, 
once the word Jew was stripped of any 
connection to a living human being and 
became the X variable marked for elimi
nation in the Final Solution. We cant 
expect a full measure of sympathy from 
the rest of the world when the Holocaust 
is cast as an exclusively Jewish tragedy.
The scattered theories of Holocaust 
Please see NUN, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
______________________9The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998ampus laundry hangs students out to dry
Editors Notebook
by Lorelei Laird
Imagine, if you will, the following: You 
itumble back to your room, bleary-eyed 
Tom hours in a cluster, only to be greeted 
jy a pair of wet bedsheets hung over the 
entrance to your bedroom. As you venture 
farther into the room, you see t-shirts 
hanging from doorknobs, light switches, 
and anything else that can support them, 
[n the bathroom, the towel rods are draped 
with jeans. In the middle of this veritable 
forest of cotton stands its owner, who 
wails that her room looks like a nine
teenth-century ghetto.
This was the scene that confronted my 
roommate and neighbors last Sunday 
evening. Lulled by a lazy three-day week
end, I decided that all that extra time 
would be put to good use doing laundry. 
However, I forgot that I was at CMU, 
where laundry is rarely a simple matter of 
washing and drying your clothes.
Of course, laundry is a pain anywhere 
you do it. But it would be vastly easier at 
iur University if the laundry facilities were 
anything resembling up-to-date. Accord
ing to the University Cleaners, the wash
ers and dryers used in most campus hous
ing now are at least 20 years old, about as 
old as the Cleaners building itself. This is
older than most of the students using them, 
and it shows. Especially in older and larger 
dormitories, it is common for students to go 
down to the laundry room and find mul
tiple washing machines marked out of 
order. Even more annoying is when the 
washer is not marked out of order, caus
ing the hapless student to waste even more 
time getting a token refund, not to mention 
wasting detergent.
As if that werent enough in itself, the 
high volume of users that each machine 
gets only furthers the problem. In 
Morewood Gardens A-D towers, which has 
the most laundry machines of any dorm, 
there are 466 students using 14 washers 
and 15 dryers  thats 33.28 students per 
washer and 31 students per dryer. (All 
statistics were obtained from Housing and 
the Laundry Services Web pages.) Even if 
each student were to do only one load per 
week  an extremely conservative esti
mate  thats still a lot of work for a 20- 
year-old machine. This is, of course, as
suming that all the machines are func
tional at once, a rarity. And all this for a 
group of people who are likely to overload 
and misuse the machines, just because 
they never had to do laundry before. It is 
little wonder that the washers break.
I once read a funny observation about 
American English: Americans go to the 
bathroom, and then they go to the bath
room. A similar thing can be said of drying 
clothes at CMU  first you dry them, and 
then you really dry them. After all, one trip 
through the dryer rarely seems to be enough 
to get the average load dry. I cant count 
the number of times Ive heard some stu
Wd tfe.nK for the mone/- kftrc f><*y*'".3 wed ge.-*-.*tte.r service. !
Come On Sonny 
X. c\init" ge+ <\(l do,y *
dent complaining that his laundry came 
out of the dryer almost as wet as it went in. 
Judging by the amount of token refunds 
Ive issued at the Morewood service desk 
(where I work) because of inadequate dry
ing, thats not an uncommon experience. If 
you do laundry in a tokenless building, like 
Cathedral Mansions or Fairfax, or cant get 
a refund, youre stuck either paying twice 
to do the same job, or hanging your laundry 
up around your room and hoping it will 
dry before you need to use your furniture. 
Either cheats the student and wastes 
precious time.
And then theres one of the students 
biggest complaints: There simply arent 
enough washers and dryers to accomodate 
all the students that use them. Remember 
the 33:1 student-to-washer ratio in
Matt Blum/Tartan Art Staff
Morewood? Thats one of the lower ratios. 
In Mudge, for example, there are five wash
ers and six dryers; that comes out to about 
62 students per washer and 52 students 
per dryer. While the costs of replacing them 
can be prohibitive  over $1,000 for the 
purchase and installation of one machine
 at least some of the other problems with 
the laundry system would be alleviated by 
the addition of more washers. After all, 
more washers mean fewer students per 
washer, which cuts down on wear and tear. 
And the University would end up saving 
some money because it would have to issue 
fewer refunds. But even if replacing or 
repairing laundry facilities loses tons of 
money, its worth it. At the moment, were 
paying for an extremely inferior product.
Please see LAUNDRY, page 10New bills indicate sinister government machinations
Funky traditions offer 
distinctive CMU flavor
Did all those alumni walking 
around last weekend with 
assorted plaid paraphenelia 
get you thinking about what 
will happen once you leave 
CMU? In honor of Home
coming, we asked: Whats 
your favorite CMU 
memory?
Compiled by 
Asia Szrek & Emily Zipfel
The nights when we stayed 
up all night talking  just 
because.
Amy Poettinger 
Architecture 
5th-year student
Last years skateboard ramp.
877-1 0-71-4
Many ages ago (three years) 
when I was in high school, I 
participated in homecoming ac
tivities. Id dress up in my school 
colors and attend the football 
game, and I think I even went 
to a dance once. I got to CMU 
and at first was relieved that I 
wouldnt have to take part in 
such arcane activits as a col
lege student.
Then, to my surprise, I actu
ally started to like it here and 
became sort of interested in 
having school spirit. Admit
tedly, I feel like a tool getting 
excited about our paltry Divi
sion III football tournaments 
when all of my friends either go 
to the University of Florida or 
Florida State, but seriously, 
there isnt much to get excited 
about at CMU.
The problem with Homecom
ing at CMU is that we dont 
have some big, central event to 
get psyched up and  lets be 
honest  drunk about. As much 
as some CMUers like football, 
theyre more inclined to spend 
the Homecoming game in front 
of the TV watching Michigan or 
the 49ers than trying to peep 
up the kilts of our bagpipers 
out at Gesling Stadium. And 
please: Who at this school can 
imagine Friday-night Homecoming revelry, perhaps out in 
Schenley Park, where hun
dreds of agitated CMU stu
dents burn a University of 
Chicago football player in ef
figy? Doesnt happen, not in 
our world.
That doesnt mean that CMU 
students are completely devoid 
of spirit, however: It just means 
that we arent spirited in the 
conventional manner of blind 
adulation for our University, 
getting My heart is in the work 
tattooed across our rear ends. 
Case in point  I was in line at 
The O the other day waiting 
for my monthly quota of grease, 
and one of our misty-eyed al
ums was waiting in line to or
der. He was probably 30 or so, 
dressed in khakis, and 
accessorized with a oneyear-old.
He smiled.
Son, he said to his kid. 
Someday you, too, will learn 
to love and cherish The O. 
After choking back laughter 
I started to realize that we do 
have things we love about this 
school, but the powers that be 
simply dont capitalize on them 
enough. For example, I have 
a friend from high school who 
goes to that wannabe tech 
school in Boston. Once every
one had sent in their accep
tance letters, wed all sit 
around and talk about our 
chosen schools.
Please see SPIRIT, page 10
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor..................Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
News Editor..Nathan Steinwald 
Forum Editor.........Rebecca Fribush
Sports Editor........................Brian Smith
Features Editor...........Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor.................Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Editor..................Matt
Tragesser
Dossier Literary Editor.......Marshall
Warfield
Art Editor..................James Mojonnier
Photo Editor...............Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz
Advertising Manager.......Kevin Fine
Webmaster.................Charles Ballowe
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules 
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan 
Asst. News Editor .. Ryan Schilling
Asst. Forum Editor.............Lorelei Laird
Asst.Features Editor.......Gregory Nofi
Asst. Dossier Design Editor.......LeeAnne Stossell 
Asst. Dossier Design Editor....Jane 
Liddle
Asst. Production Manager....Derek 
Greentree
Darkroom Mgr..............................Lisette
Miller-Dixon
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel
Contributing Editors 
Mark Adato, Ellen Beldner, Jennifer 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Tracy Odell, Amit Sheth
Staffwriters 
Abhay Agrawal, Dash Boyer-Olsen, 
Michelle Chao, Justin Cina, Dave 
Elman, Nick Fox-Gieg, Sriram 
Gollapalli, Andrew Francis, Emily 
Landes, David Liber, Katie Martinez, 
Trevor Meyerowitz, Maureen 
McGranaghan, Bhumika Muchhala, 
Susan Murray, Jaya Saxena, Reena 
Singhal, Jennifer Terry, Rich Torio, 
Yishan Wong
Art
Neil Babra, Matthew Blum, Joe 
Hocking, Chris Rugen, Cortland 
Shopper, Zekri Ismail
Comics
Joe Hocking, Chris Rugen, Chris
tian Schwartz, Elizabeth Spiridakis
Photo 
Stacey Tetzlaff
Darkroom 
Cassandra Knight, Susan Leu, Wil
liam Long, Jeany Oh, David 
Oleszkiewicz, Diana Rutherford, 
Amy Solana, Erica Yamada
Production 
Andrea Okerholm, Jennie Keith, 
Diana Rutherford, Rimas Svarcas, 
Erica Yamada, Brian Yeung
Copy
Stacey Becker, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Claire 
Jaciregui, Larissa Kaslan, Matthew 
McHenry, Jonathon Pearce, Jenni
fer Terry
Business 
Michael Y. Kan, Toshi Takano
Junior Staff 
Sara Arnodio, Elaine Boland, Matt 
Brun, Jimmy Clutter, Rhys Conlon, 
Cynthia Kos, Rob Cullen, Heather 
Dietrich, Anthony Dawia, Katie Doyle, 
Dave Eyvazzadeh, Ben Farapour, 
Stephen Gorbos, Lisa Hankin, Ish 
Harshawat, Rob Jefferson, Rosie 
Jones, Katie Kowall. Susan Leu, 
Winnie Liang, Darby Lumber, Aseem 
Maheshwan, David Martin, Alina 
Mason, Josh McConnell, Melissa 
McMahon, KoichiroNakatsu,Trishna 
Palodia, Lara Panis, Jonathan Pearce, 
Trishna Potodia, Afuma Porter, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Adam Retchless, 
Lily Rohani, Pauwla Rumli, Betsy 
Scott, Rich Torio, Anna Wei, Chris
tina Wong, Rhys Wong, Guido 
Zarrella
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community: It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually; but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1998 by The Tartan. The fa/taneditorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 268-2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/ 
Box 17/Carnegie Mellon University/ Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu _ 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library JagHjB 
ofCongress ISSN#:0890-3107.The Tartan is a member 
of the Associated Press.
Shiv Rao
H&SS
Sophomore
VIONEY, from page 8
lettering? Find a good ransomnote font, and the money is even 
less serious. To top it off, the 
rreasury could use pictures of 
Warner Brothers cartoon charing in denominations with the 
least circulation and working 
their way down, our nation will 
be accustomed to seeing these 
new bills.
At the current rate of release,
acters on the bills. Granted, Puff the $10 bill could be redesigned
Daddy would sound more ____________________________________
banal than usual chant
ing, Its all about the 
Porky Pigs! On the other 
tiand, money would be 
Tnore entertaining in and 
of itself.
Perhaps there are more 
'sinister forces at work 
here. After all, theres an 
age-old theory that the 
United States government is being ruled by an ancient 
conspiracy whose logo, a pyra
mid with an eye, is on the dollar 
bill. By accentuating key eleWhen I first saw one of 
these bills, my instinct was 
to inspect it to see if there 
was a disclaimer that said,
Not legal tender.  
pied to handle the change of the 
guard. In the year 2001, we could 
see the new dollar bill in place, 
and well be too complacent to 
notice that the eye-in-pyramid has 
taken center stage on the bill, 
a symbol that the secret conspiracy
______ truly has taken hold.
After this conspiracy 
comes into effect, we may 
discover that its headed 
not by shadowy leaders 
or militant mercenaries 
intent on enslaving us 
 but by Porky Pig, lib
erating piggy banks ev
erywhere from a lifetime 
of servitude as recep
tacles for cash.
'ments of the money slowly, startnext year, and the $5 bill re-deployed in 2000. After the ensuing 
chaos of the much-talked-about 
Y2K dilemma, we as a nation will 
be defenseless and too preoccuRob Jefferson is a sophomore 
computer science major. He wel
comes all responsible replies to 
his column.
Recent canonization highlights 
hypocrisies of several religions
NUN, from page 8
revisionists are generally re
ceived with appropriate con
tempt, but far more people, while 
not denying the historical reality 
:of the events, simply dont see 
their continued relevance. Six 
pillion is fixed in the minds of 
two or three generations of Ameri
can schoolkids, but the less sibi
lant, less sinister 5.5 million is 
more accurate. That number con
stitutes half of the 11 million 
people who died in the camps  
an extraordinary percentage, es
pecially considering the tiny Jew
ish population in Europe, but not 
the whole mass of the dead. The 
larger number is the one that 
needs to be emphasized to con
nect this focal point of 20th-cen
tury history to the many people 
who believe its irrelevant to them.
If St. Edith manages to stir up
honest, productive debate on this 
subject, she may very well be a 
source of reconciliation between 
Christians and Jews, although 
not, perhaps, in the way her spiri
tual PR agents intended.
Nick Fox-Gieg is a senior art 
major. Edith Stein is likely the 
worlds first Jewish-born saint, 
not counting the supporting cast 
of the New Testament.
Emily Zipfel/Tartan Junior Staff 
Playfair! It was all downhill Getting my picture in The 
after that.... Tartans photo op!
Beth Whitney
Acting
Senior
Julie Bean
Design
Sophomore

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
Poor facilities dont wash
Fu6 n-kyt7-rr
Few situations demand relief as 
clearly as natural disasters do, and few 
actions are as noble as giving that aid. 
However, just as it wouldnt be wise to 
give money to a crack addict on the 
street, there are situations where giv
ing aid to the victims of natural disas
ters would be wasteful.
One of these is the current situation 
in Puerto Rico and Florida, where a 
hurricane wrought over $2 billion in 
damages last month. Through the Fed
eral Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA), the federal government has 
granted several hundred million dol
lars to this area to help citizens rebuild 
their lives. As of now, some in the U.S. 
Congress are working to get more aid 
sent to their home states, and some 
predict that the federal government 
will provide over $1 billion in aid to 
Puerto Rico alone.
This has happened before, and it will 
happen again. The Caribbean gets dev
astated by a tropical storm, we are 
forced to help the residents rebuild 
their feeble homes, and another tropi
cal storm comes, blowing away the ben
efits of the money that we worked 
hard to earn, but which these people 
received by the virtue of having politi
cal connections.
To their credit, some politicians have 
realized that it is wasteful to keep throw
ing money into the wind as they have 
been doing. They have proposed that 
the American public put forward addi
tional money right now so that stronger 
structures can be built and we wont 
be caught in the trap of financing end
less rebuilding.
This is simply a subsidy for individu
als to live in these areas. Many resi
dents of these tropical zones choose 
to live there. They could have lived 
elsewhere, but they sought the sun 
and sand of Florida. Is there any 
reason they shouldnt pay the rent 
that Mother Nature charges for an 
endless summer?
I also wonder where all this relief 
money is going. Will the money be 
granted to individuals who will buy their 
own houses, or will it go to the landlords 
whose property was damaged? And 
knowing governments fondness for cor
porate welfare in the guise of job cre
ation programs, I wouldnt be surprised 
if some company boss gets a bonus from 
the government while employees everyMohd Zekri Ismail/Tartan Art Staff
where get stuck with the taxes that fund 
the relief in the first place.
The sad truth is that I will never 
know exactly how this money is distrib
uted, and even if I did, what could I do 
about it? To change anything, I would 
have to get a Congress and a President 
elected, which means I would have to 
convince some 30 million Americans 
that disaster relief is an important is
sue. But it isnt. The way disaster relief 
is distributed will never get mentioned 
in a debate for national office. It cannot 
compete with issues such as the stabil
ity of Social Security or even the stabil
ity of the free world.
The elected officials that rule our 
country have become so big that expencomplacency
ditures of $20 billion a year have be
come a drop in the* bucket. The Ameri
can people have lost all ability to con
trol those expenditures as we focus on 
the other trillion dollars our federal 
government spends. Maybe if we are to 
keep all this power in the hands of our 
government, we should split it among 
several elected officers. Why shouldnt 
we have direct authority over the chair
man of the Federal Reserve? But I feel 
the only way to really return power to 
the people is to return it to individuals.
If I give money to a relief charity, I 
could most likely contact whomever I 
give the money to in order to find out 
what the groups distribution policy is. 
If I called the IRS, would I be referred to 
the department of FEMA that could 
tell me how money is distributed? Do 
you think this bureaucrat would be 
in a hurry to provide me with this 
information? Its not as though FEMA 
risks losing any money if it gives me 
terrible service.
Of course, if federal emergency aid 
funding is cut, it may not all be replaced 
by private charity. However, the prob
lems with FEMA apply to a host of 
frivolous and inefficient government 
expenditures. If all of these expendi
tures were reduced together, each per
son would have more money to contrib
ute to the charities of their choice. An 
across-the-board cut would make bu
reaucracies like the IRS worthless to 
the government and free up thousands 
of workers to do productive work. This 
general increase in wealth would give 
generous individuals more money to 
contribute to charities, preventing di
saster aid funding from dropping too 
much and possibly allowing it to in
crease over its current levels.
If there are persons out there who 
need assistance, and there are, the only 
real solution for their problems is pri
vate aid. We need to encourage this by 
solidarity among those who care, not by 
forcing people to give aid without hav
ing a say in the matter.
Adam Retchless is a junior biology 
major. He welcomes all responsible re
plies to his column.
LAUNDRY, from page 9
All of this is especially annoying when 
you consider that the price of packets of 
laundry tokens just went up by 50 cents 
per pack. That puts the price of each 
individual token up to 75 cents, which is 
not unreasonable, since many coin laun
dry services charge the same. However, 
when the price of a service is raised, 
consumers should be able to expect a 
corresponding improvement in the qual
ity of that service. If what University 
Cleaners says is true, students have yet 
to see any improvement over the current 
system, and havent for the last 20 years.
The age of our laundry facilities is a 
problem that spawns a wealth of tinier
SPIRIT, from page 9
Carnegie Mellon? my friend asked. 
Cool. What are their colors?
I beamed proudly: No slavish devotion 
to arbitrarily chosen hues for me, thank 
you very much. We dont have colors. 
We have a school plaid.
Really? Thats awesome, he said, and 
proceeded to cover a page of my year
book with colored-in plaid.
Much to my dismay, however, when I 
arrived at CMU, everything was maroon 
and white. I searched through the book
store, but alas, could find nary a thread of 
the Tartan plaid. Why wouldnt the plaid 
be on everything possible? I wondered. 
Towels, pennants, bookbags, mugs, pen
cils  no, they were all maroon or some 
other equally random color. Even worse, 
when I found out that we actually had a 
cheerleading squad, I could not compre
hend why they were stuck in maroon 
skirts instead of plaid ones.
To this day I become rabidly upset when 
I go through the bookstore and cant find 
plaid kilts and skirts for us to buy and 
wear. Sure, its more expensive to produce 
items in the Tartan plaid, but lets face it: 
An extra three bucks on the price of a pair 
of boxers is nothing compared to the 
$30,000 we pay to go here each year. And 
at least then we could all become walking 
Give us money! advertisements to ex
tract cash from hordes of smiling alums, 
descending on CMU for their much-loved
problems, each eager to sink its pointy 
little teeth into the thigh of an unwary 
student. Especially because were now 
paying more to use them, the laundry 
machines on campus need to see 
some improvement. The current facili
ties swindle students and cause an un
necessary hassle in the lives of alreadybusy people.
Lorelei Laird is, among other things, 
The Tartan Assistant Forum Editor. She 
wrote this article in part to explain that 
problems with the laundry facilities arei 
not caused because the little trolls who 
control the fire in the dryers have been on 
strike since God was a boy.
O fries and bagpipe music.
Our motto is in English, not Latin; we 
were founded as a forward-looking tech
nical school and to this day Im convinced 
that our buildings would look ugly if they 
were covered in ivy (except perhaps for 
Warner Hall, but that will thankfully be 
covered by the Purnell Center instead). 
And for all the administrations futile 
attempts at weavinglegend into our daily 
lives  think about it, folks, who among 
you has ever seen anyone rub 
Hamerschlags nose on the plaque that 
hangs in Baker Hall?  it has missed 
some of the most interesting things about 
our school.
We like to be different here. We like our 
men in kilts and prefer bagpipes to a 
brass band. Buggies are more fun than 
cars and Carnival is better than a Home
coming party. If we want school spirit 
(and if the administration wants us to 
haul our decrepit asses back here in 50 
years with large checks for the endow
ment), we need to focus on the things that 
make us different from all the other uni
versities dottingthe American landscape. 
So screw the Scotty Dog and bring on 
Skibo, because Id rather have the genu
ine weirdness of Andy than the pomp and 
circumstance of Harvard.
Ellen Beldner is a junior professional 
writing major with a fetish for plaid 
Scottish terriers playing the bagpipes.
Federal disaster aid invites
Weird spirit links generations
.......Wed., October 28th
Scaife Hall, Rm 212, 6:30 PM
Thurs., October 29th-------
& Thurs., November 19th
Need to know more?
Optometrists:
Dr. Ronald Hirsch & Dr. Yarriffp Moyett
5824 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill 
521-2100Sapient provides business and information technology solutions to leading 
organizations around the world. And we offer you training, growth opportunities, 
and a culture you wont find anywhere else. Business Week and Forbes have 
named us one of the top high-growth companies in the U.S.Call for an appointment
We have exciting opportunities for college graduates with an interest in 
both technology and business:
...........? Web & Client/Server Developers
..........? Assistant Project Manager Candidates
..........? ERP Consultants - Technical & Business Application
Comprehensive Examinations 
Contact Lens Fittings 
Contact Lenses
(Bifocal, Disposable, & Daily Wear)
a1di46ukoi1 s-rroi1
a1k-4fo-er
alainmikliPlease contact your Career Center for more information, or 
send your resume co: Kristine Hyde, Sapient Corporation, 
One MemorialDrivc, Cambridge, MA 02142;
Tel: (617) 679-6937  Fax: (617) 374-6828 
E-mail: khyde@sapienr.com
LUNETTES
INTERESTED IN A COMPANY THAT INVESTS 
AS MUCH IN YOUR FUTURE AS YOU DO?DALMrT I C A L
Volumou e 9u3,Is7Ca e 9rsnuCg e iulsuM e Ugm7gm ' Los VmCalaM e vat ygI e Sum dIumnsMngFor All Students, Faculty, & Staff 20% Discount

---------------------------------------------------

Celebrate the 1998 
International Festival
on Europe
international19 9 8
Carnegie Mellon University
1998 International Festival On Europe
Thursday, October 22nd
Friday, October 23rd contd
9:00 a.m. - 12noon, 
1:00-5:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
12noon - 5:00 p.m. 
12noon - 6:00 p.m. 
12:30- 1:30 p.m.
2:00 - 3:00 p.m.
3:00 - 4:00 p.m. 
4:00 - 4:20 p.m. 
4:30 - 6:00 p.m.
6:00 - 8:00 p.m. 
6:00 - 6:30 p.m.
. 6:45-7:15 p.m.
7:30-8 :00 p.m. 
7:00- 10:00 p.m. 
(Call 268-FLMS)
9th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & Illustration, 
Hunt Institute
Hewlett Gallery Exhibit, The Paintings of Valentin Lustig, 
curated by Edith Balas, Professor of Art History 
Study Abroad Artifacts, University Center Art Gallery 
Resource Room, Le Collezione, McKenna Peter Wright 
Soup and Substance, Stephen Brockmann speaks on German 
Reunificiation, McKenna Peter Wright 
Personal Journey, Marsha Poster, Executive Director & Judy 
Abrams, Educational Coordinator, Center for Early Education, 
Adaptation of the Reggio Emilia Approach to Early 
Education, Dowd room
Personal Journey, Professor Daniel Resnick The Parisian 
Student Quarter: A Journey In Time and Space," Dowd room 
Opening Ceremonies - Carnegie Mellon Pipe Band,
Merson Court yard
Keynote Lecture and Reception, Josef Joffe, Editor, 
Suddeutsche Zeitung,Europe on the Eve of the 21st Century, 
Connan Room
Earth lectures, McKenna Peter Wright
Scott Farrow, An Environmental Policy Frontier: Central and 
Eastern Europe
Lester Lave, Attaining a Sustainable Economy
Cliff Davidson, Environmental Issues in Sweden
European Ballroom Dancing, Rangos Hall 
Activities Board Film, Underground,
McConomy Auditorium
Friday, October 23rd
9:00 a.m. - 12noon, 
1:00 - 5:00 p.m.
10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m,
11:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
12noon - 5:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. 
11:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. 
12noon - 3:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. 
12noon - 6:00 p.m. 
12:30- 1:30 p.m.
1:00 - 2:00 p.m.
2:00 - 3:00 p.m. 
3:00 p.m.
9th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & Illustration, 
Hunt Institute
Historical Lecture on the Origins of the Bagpipes, Alasdair 
Gillies, McKenna Peter Wright 
Hewlett Gallery Exhibit,
The Paintings of Valentin Lustig, curated 
by Edith Balas, Professor of Art History 
Study Abroad Artifacts, University Center Art Gallery 
Food Fair, Rangos Hall
Educational and Opportunities Abroad Fair, Rangos Hall 
.Free International Phone Calls, Rangos Hall 
Arts and Crafts Fair, Rangos Hall
Resource Room, Le Collezione, McKenna Peter Wright 
Soup and Substance, Richard Maddox, Technocracy 
vs Democracy, McKenna Peter Wright 
Personal Journey, Douglas Cooper and Students,
The Frankfurt Mural: Learning German and Working With 
the Elderly, Dowd room
Personal Journey, leva Allison, The Baltic States:
Past and Present, Dowd room
Educational and Opportunities Abroad Fair Raffle Drawing, 
Rangos Hall
4:00 - 5:00 p.m.
5:00 - 6:00 p.m.
6:00-7:00 p.m. 
6:00 - 7:30 p.m.
6:00 - 8:00 p.m.
8:00 - 10:00 p.m. 
10:00- 11:00 p.m 
(Call 268-FLMS)
Lecture by Denis de Cazotte, A History of French
Intellectuals, McConomy Auditorium
Keynote Speaker, Wouter Wilton, Current Developments in
the European Union, Connan Room
Valentin Lustig, My Paintings, McConomy Auditorium
A Taste of Spain, Spanish Cooking Workshop, sign up at the
University Center Information Desk
Study Abroad Artifacts Reception, University Center
Art Gallery
Music by British Invasion, Rangos Hall 
Coffee and dessert for families, Rangos Hall 
Activities Board Film, La Femme Nikita,
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, October 24th
9:00 a.m.
11:00 a.m. - 12 Noon 
11:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
llnoon -1:00 p.m.
12noon - 2 :00 p.m. 
12noon - 4:30 p.m. 
12noon - 12:30 p.m. 
12:45- 1:30 p.m. 
1:45-2:15 p.m. 
2:30 - 3:00 p.m. 
3:15 - 3:45 p.m. 
4:00 - 4:30 p.m. 
12noon - 6:00 p.m. 
1:00 - 2:00 p.m.
1:00 - 1:45 p.m.
2:00 - 3:00 pm
3:15-4:00 p.m.
7:00 - 8:00 p.m.
8:00 - 10:00 p.m. 
9:30- 11:30 p.m. 
10:00- 11:30 p.m. 
10:00- 11:30 p.m. 
(Call 268-FLMS)
Davis Cup Mixed Doubles Tennis Tournament,
Carnegie Mellon Tennis courts
International Soccer Tournament, Gesling Stadium
Hewlett Gallery Exhibit,
The Paintings of Valentin Lustig, curated 
by Edith Balas, Professor of Art History 
Food Fair, Rangos Hall 
Arts and Crafts Fair, Rangos Hall
Personal Journey, Alternative International Break Experience - 
presentation on Germany service trip, Dowd room 
Strolling Accordionist, University Center 
Entertainment, Rangos Hall 
Flamenco dancing 
Kyiv Ukrainian Dance Ensemble 
Irish Burke, Dancers 
Flamenco Dancers 
Irish Burke Dancers 
Flamenco Dancers
Resource Room Le Collezione, McKenna Peter Wright 
International Soccer tournament championship,
Gesling Stadium
Flamenco Dance Workshop, University Center aerobics room 
Personal Journey, Jillian Watkins, Personal Experiences 
Studying Abroad in Spain Dowd room 
Flamenco Dancing Workshop, University Center aerobics room 
Activities Board Political Speakers, Anna Rosmus,
Connan Room
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Orchestra, Rangos Hall 
Monte Carlo Night, University Center 
Music by Alpen Glow, Kirr Commons 
Coffee and Dessert, Connan room
Student Dormitory Council Film, Les Miserables, McConomy 
Auditorium
Sunday, October 25th
9:00 a.m. Davis Cup Mixed Doubles Tennis Tournament, Carnegie Mellon
Tennis courts
(Call 268-FLMS) Activities Board Film, The Pink Panther
McConomy Auditorium
For more information on listed events, contact Student Activities at 268-8704 or 
visit the web site at http://www.cmu.edu/enrollment/sa/international.html
For more information call 
Student Activities 268-8704

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
P (Best SeBing Car to History)
TOYOTACv'&rijc/ai
-See Ali The"99 ^| 
Toyotas At Your IB 
Toyot-a Dealer .......
.JiSavings bast'd on comparison of l99 
Corolla equipped with options packager's, 
comparably cquipj>ed l98 Corolla" Corolla 
liTthe best selling car in history, based on 
worldwide sales figures..._______-------
Administration
IM Director Mike Mastroianni 
X8-2214
Asst. IM Director Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2214
IM Secretary  Amy Kiryk x8-2053 
IM President  Jeff Poore X2-3913 
Women's President  Andrea Nellis 
X2-2611 
Important Dates
Thur. Oct. 22  3 Person Volleyball, 
Bridge, Backgammon rosters due 4:30 
pm in the IM Office.
Tues. Oct. 27  IM Board Meeting 
11:30 am Gym Conference Room 
Sports Completed
Touch Football  The 1998 Touch 
Football championships were decided 
Wednesday night at Gesling Stadium. 
The majors champs were the Delt 
Scrubs, minors champs the Delt 
Scrubs 2, and the Tartan Hoopers 
won their sixth consecutive womens 
only title.
Tennis  Three of the championships 
in the Tennis leagues have been 
settled. The majors champ was Italy, 
the intermediate winner was KSA 
Agape, and the womens-only winner 
was Siam. The minors championship 
will be played tonight.
Sports in Season
Water Polo  Schedules are out. Play 
has started in the UC Pool. Games will 
be played on Monday and Wednesday 
evenings at 9 and 10 pm.
Chess  Schedules are out. Please 
play all games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Bowling  Matches began Sunday 
Oct. 18 at the PAA lanes. All cap
tains must have returned the confir
mation letter to be placed on the 
schedule.
Volleyball  Games began on Thursday 
Oct. 8 in the UC gym. Schedules will be 
available Tuesday afternoon.
Soccer We have 100 teams entered 
this year. The games are played Monday 
through Thursday evenings and Sunday 
afternoons at the stadium and IM 
Felds. Please stay off the field during 
varsity practices.
Racquetball and Foosball  Schedules 
are available in the IM Office. Please 
play games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
1S98 IM Football All-Star Team 
1st Team
Justin Peroli  Beta Black & Gold 
Brian Gustafson  Beta Black & Gold 
Mike Nino Gerome  PiKA A 
Chris Jenkins  SAE Misshappen 
Ben Reitz  Delt Scrubs 
Matt Demler  Delt Scrubs 
2nd Team
Tom Zahn  Beta Black & Gold 
Jon Stein  Theta Xi Blue 
Jake Williams  SAE Mishappen 
Chris Butsko  SAE Tight Ends 
Marcel Phelps  Hit Squad 
Franklin Shevy" Westbrook 
MVP's
Majors: Matt Demmler - Delt Scrubs 
Minors: Matt Linder - Delt Scrubs 
Women's: Andrea Nellis  Tartan 
Hoopers
All Sports Update
Men's
Delt Scrubs 1050 
SAE 600 
PiKA 516 
Women's
Tartan Hoopers 750 
TSA 300
Intramurals
October 5,1998
in final quarter
tion on the Tartans second drive of the game. The 
Tartans only score came in the fourth quarter on 
a 1-yard Mugford ran. It capped off a seven play,
41-yard drive that lasted one minute, 58 seconds.
Matt Jarock kicked in the extra point to bring the 
score to 9-7 in favor of Chicago.
Chicago was also limited on offense. The first 
score of the game came on a second quarter Chi
cago field goal forced by some great Tartan defen
sive plays, including a third-down sack. They 
scored only once more, on a 35-yard drive of four 
plays that culminated in a touchdown with 5:14 
left on the clock in the second quarter. Chicagos 
total remained at nine points after a missed extra 
point attempt.
The Bears rushed for a total of 90 yards, while 
CMU was held to only 57. Chicago also had the 
advantage in the passing game, throwing for 188 
yards, while the Tartans compiled 150.
The most frustrating thing about Saturdays 
game is that nothing went seriously wrong, but 
the Tartans still failed to add a tally to the win 
column. CMU threw only two interceptions and had a They are a good team, but we are still looking for a 
great day on defense. No major changes need to occur, win there.
Things just need to fall into place for the Tartans. After next weeks game in St. Louis, the Tartans
Well, wed like to win, said Lackner on the changes return home to close out their regular season with a 
he would like to see in the coming weeks. As far as the series of three consecutive home games, starting with 
Tartans next game at Washington, Lackner said, the University of Rochester on October 31.
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Editor 
Sophomore Josh Mugford drives though the Chicago defense 
near the Bears' 1-yard line. He had 57 yards on the day.
Soccer looks to young talentStrategy pays off for
SOCCER, from page 14
soon as she had an edge on 
her defender, pulled trigger 
on a low shot that hugged the 
far post and went past the 
Ohio goalie.
The Tartans were somewhat 
outmatched, and, despite 12 
solid saves by Smith and great 
play by the CMU back line, 
Ohio put three goals of their 
own in and won the game 3-1.
Grove City will come to CMU 
on Tuesday. The Tartans will 
then face two UAA opponents 
in three days playing at Roch
ester on Friday and travel to 
Brandeis on Sunday.
Volleyball recovers from tough 
loss at Grove City to win pair
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
After losing a tough match at Grove City, the Tartans swept 
Carlow College and the College of Wooster last week.
VOLLEYBALL, from page 14
ened. The third game was more 
like the first, and, despite some 
difficulty getting the last few 
points, the Tartans cruised to a 
15-5 win to finish off the match.
The rash of weaker opponents 
in the last few matches has be
come a source of concern for the 
Tartans, who are looking for 
some more competitive oppo
nents to help prepare for the 
tough UAA teams they will be 
facing in the league champion
ship tournament in two weeks. 
Its hard to get ready to play 
tough teams when were not 
playing good teams, freshman 
Carly Jerla said.
The lack of serious competi
tion has begun to noticeably af
fect the Tartans level of play in 
the last couple of matches, as 
well. Were playing well enough 
to win, but not as well as we 
could be playing, Jerla said. The 
teams record stands at 18-9.
The week also featured indi
vidual recognition as junior Sa
rah Putarto climbed to number 
20 nationally in assists in NCAA 
Division III play.
The Tartans will build on 
these successes as they host 
Penn State-Altoona this 
Wednesday before taking their 
game on the road to the 
LaRoche Tournament next Fri
day through Sunday.
men in local tourney
X-COUNTRY, from page 14
the team great, said Donatelli.
It was a very consistent race 
for the team in general. Brook 
Cutler and Kelly Chin are run
ning well for us this season, 
said McGranaghan.
The success of the team can be 
attributed to hard work by the 
runners as well as smart train
ing by Donatelli. [Donatelli] 
knows when to back off and when 
to push th training. He knows 
when people need breaks and 
when to pick it up again to meet 
the end of the season goals, said 
McGranaghan. This was par
ticularly important for the 
women during midsemester, 
when team members started feel
ing run down and had added 
academic pressures.
The women are looking to 
maintain their streak of success 
with a win at the conference next 
weekend. After winning last 
years race, the CMU team is the 
favorite to win again this year. 
The women are also looking to 
place in the top four at regionals 
in three weeks so they may 
qualify to run in nationals, at 
which they are currently ex
pected to come in fifth.
From their performance at the 
past few races, it looks as though 
the women will meet their goals. 
We are running well, not just 
once in a while, but consistently, 
said McGranaghan. Im excited 
about where we are. We are in a 
good position to accomplish our 
goals for this season. 
The mens cross country team 
is also at the top of its game, 
beating out all Division III oppo
nents they faced and only falter
ing to Division I schools.
rAR FOR LESS MONti
MORE OAK r ^ wtai VoM Ma)M) ^ ^
The Duquesne Invitational 
was especially challenging for 
some of the Tartans, as they 
were recovering from illnesses 
early in the week.In addition 
senior Josh Donner was ham
pered by a nagging knee injury. 
However, second place is noth
ing to frown upon.
I think we finished really well 
overall, said junior Bryan 
Meyer, who finished fourth on 
the team. As a whole, the Tartan 
men tied for second place with 
host Duquesne.
We were hoping someone 
would be able to break the top 
10 individually, but we did re
ally well anyway, said senior 
Kristo Kreichbaum. Junior 
Kenn Oldham was the top Tar
tan finisher, taking 10th place 
in the field of approximately 
100 runners. .
The team also practiced a new 
strategy in the meet. We were 
trying to run together for the whole 
meet, said Kreichbaum. Its1 
mainly a mental thing, it gets us 
all to work together better.
I think its a good strategy, 
espically since we dont have one 
superstar on the team, said 
mens coach Gary Meckley. We 
just have five or six consistantly 
good runners.
One of the pleasant surprises 
of the day was the effort of fresh
man Matt Dennerline. 
Dennerline had been on the 
verge of breaking into the cov
eted top five runners ranking, 
and he seems to have peaked at 
just the right time. He finished 
second among Tartan runners 
and 11th overall.
Rounding out the top six 
Carnegie Mellon finishers were 
Kreichbaum, who finished third 
among the CMU men, and Meyer, 
junior Jim Gorham, and Donner, 
who finished fourth through 
sixth, respectively.
Next week, the Tartans face 
perhaps their most important 
race of the year at the UAA 
Championships in Chicago. The 
team is confident they can make 
a bid for first place and is expect
ing major competition from 
Brandeis and Washington Uni
versity of St. Louis.
The UAA is probably one of 
the two or three top conferences 
in Division III cross country, 
saidMeckley. Brandeis prob
ably has the most talent of the 
field. I think it will be a three 
team race.
The Chicago course is really flat 
which is probably an advantage 
for Washington, he said. We need 
to have all five of our guys have a 
great day because were not as 
deep as Brandeis or Washington. 
Theres only a week left before 
the UAAs, so I dont think were 
going to have any major improve
ment between then and now, but 
if we race like we have been we 
should do fine, said Kreichbaum.
Meyer is equally optimistic. If 
we keep with our smart strategy 
and run together, we should do 
well in the UAAs.
Tartans fall late
FOOTBALL, from page 14
need him on the field. Mugford rushed 12 times for a 
total of 54 yards.
The Tartans never managed to rally the offense, 
despite a couple of long bombs from quarterback Russ 
Clay to Mike McClaughlin, including a 43-yard recepStacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
The Tartan defense racked up seven sacks on the day.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 199813Ghost from past haunts Steelers in tough loss
The Steelers Comer
_________by Rich Torio
If you would have told me 
before the Cincinnati game that 
Kordell and company would run 
up 20 points but still lose 25-20 
on a clutch ODonnell pass, I 
would have asked you if you 
saw Super Bowl XXX. 
ODonnell  clutch?
But, yes, the Steelers lost to the 
most unlikely of foes, the Bengals, 
led by the most unlikely of heroes, Neil ODonnell. I was sure 
that he would throw an errant 
pass to Dewayne Washington in 
the closing minutes of the game, 
giving the Steelers the victory. 
Instead, ODonnell pulled a Dan 
jMarino, ad-libbing and out-wit|ting the Steelers on the gamewinning touchdown pass. Watch
ing the Steelers lose in the fourth 
quarter to ODonnell just poured
salt on the wound of the Super 
Bowl Super Choke.
Where was this ODonnell when 
we needed him?
This was one of those games 
where you just take your hat off 
to the opposing quarterback  
even if it is Neil ODonnell. He 
just beat us. As much as the loss 
to Cincinnati hurt, at least we 
didnt beat ourselves.
Strangely enough, the Pitts
burgh Steelers played their best 
overall football last week. Our 
anemic offense wasnt flashy, but 
it scored a respectable 20 points 
despite playing the majority of 
the game without Jerome Bettis. 
And, as usual, our defense played 
a solid game; cornerback 
Dewayne Washington was just 
out-jumped by a bigger, more ath
letic Carl Pickens all day long.
Almost as unlikely as 
ODonnell outplaying us is the 
fact that most of the blame last 
week can be attributed to the 
defense. Before the season 
started, when cornerback Chad 
Scott sustained a season-ending 
knee injury, cornerback was the 
question mark of the Steelers 
starting defense.
Throughout this season, however, 
the cornerback situation has been 
overshadowed by the questionable 
quarterbacking of Kordell Stewart. 
Against Cincinnati, though, the 
corrosion of the comerbackingcorps 
was conspicuous.
is just one of those great big, 
physical, fast wide receivers who 
was just too much for Washing
ton to handle.
Unfortunately, the best teams 
(Denver, San Francisco, Kansas 
City, and Minnesota) have at least
Dont get me wrong; Dewayne 
Washington has been one of the 
Steelers top performers thus far 
this year, but he was picked on as 
Pickens pulled down 13 recep
tions last week. It wasnt that he 
was out of position, it was that he 
was out ofhis league. Carl Pickens
James Mojonnfer/Tartan Art Editor
one of those great big, physical, 
fast wide receivers (Smith, Rice, 
Rison, and Moss) who will also be 
too much for Washington. It will 
only get harder for the Steelers 
comers to keep up as the sched
ule gets tougher, so keep an eye 
on the play of the secondary as
the season progresses. Chad 
Scott, we miss you!
Bob Pompeani of KDKA news 
agrees that Washington was 
outplayed, but he questions the 
play calling of defensive coordi
nator Jim Haslett. I was more 
critical of the fact that [the 
Steelers] didnt have anyone to 
help him [Washington], said 
Pompeani. I think that the 
Steelers needed to help him out. 
They needed to send a safety over 
there; they needed to do some
thing so that he was not isolated 
all day with that guy [Pickens]. 
And yet he was there all day.
Whether the blame lies with 
Haslett or Washington, it must 
be corrected. Either Washington 
has got to step it up, or Haslett 
has got to give him some help.
On the bright side, the other 
side of the ball played its most 
complete game thus far this year. 
Although Kordell Stewart isnt 
passing for 300 yards a game, he 
didnt lose the game last week, 
and he is finally using his greatest 
attribute: his legs. Stewart rushed 
for a career high 109 yards last 
week after barely running at all in 
the previous games. I do think
that Stewart still needs to pass 
the ball more effectively, but if he 
just tucks it down and runs in
stead of forcing the ball into cover
age, I will never be disappointed.
Another exciting development 
was running back Richard 
Huntleys solid play. Huntley 
filled in adequately when Bettis 
went down to injury, except for 
one untimely fumble. He will most 
likely start against Baltimore and 
should carry the Steelers until 
J erome Bettis is healthy. If Hunt
ley runs well, Kordell keeps run
ning, and safeties run over to 
help Washington out, then the 
Steelers should be OK for a while.
Post-game Prognostication: (1-0)
Steelers win 17-10.
The Steelers bounce back after 
a disappointing loss to Cincin
nati and win against the Balti
more Ravens. Dewayne Wash
ington picks off two passes in a 
great overall defensive effort, and 
Kordell Stewart and Richard 
Huntley combine for over 150 
yards of rushing against a stout 
Ravens defense.
Rich Torio is a sophomore 
English major.Sports ShortsI
Squad improves 
in trio of games
On Wednesday, October 7, the 
Carnegie Mellon mens team gave a 
fireworks display for the home crowd at 
Gesling Stadium. The Tartans walked 
away with a 9-0 victory versus PittGreensburgh that set the stage for two 
more wins this last week.
Only six minutes into the game, firstyear student Steve Tepper opened the 
scoring for the Tartans when he scored 
off of a rebound and gave CMU the 
only lead it would need.
The first half was a bonanza of offen
sive activity for the Tartans, and by the 
end of the half, senior co-captain Harry 
Ulrich, sophomores Yuvuz Goncu and 
Dave Zupon, and junior Dave Huryk 
all pitched in with their own goals to 
extend the Tartans lead to 5-0.
The second half was not much bet
ter than the first for Greensburg. 
Goncu scored two more goals, giving 
him a hat trick. Sophomore Steve 
Coombs and junior Lou Campero each 
put the ball in the back of the net to 
further extend CMUs lead.
Junior goalie Ben Kartzman and firstyear student Tom Dougherty combined 
for the fifth shutout of the Tartans sea
son. Senior co-captain Dan Brody earned 
two assists in the first half as well, acting 
as a major spark to the CMU offense.
Las t Wednes day the soccer team played 
at home again against Franklin and 
Marshall. Zupon scored the only goal for 
the Tartans in a hard fought 1-0 win.
The team needed more offense on Sat
urday when they played BaldwinWallace College, but they got it and won
3-2. Sophomore John Petrillo socred first 
for the Tartans, and was followed by 
first-year student Andrew Chun. Ulrich 
scored the Tartans third goal to put the 
game out of reach for Baldwin-Wallace.
CMU has only four games remaining 
onits schedule for the year. It hopes to 
finish strongly and enter the playoffs.
Weve been winning, so I think we 
have a lot more confidence, said 
Kartzman. Were definitly not looking 
past anyone....
Swim team holds 
alum meet in UC
The atmosphere was light and casual 
last weekend at the UC pool as the CMU 
swim team used homecoming to host its 
annual intra-squad alumni meet. The 
event served a dual purpose, to welcome 
back alumni and to the get in shape the 
next weeks debut match.
We had a lot of fun, said head swim 
coach David Belowich. Better yet, ev
eryone swam the best they could.
Despite the friendly environment, there 
was spirited competition in the pool, as 
the alumni made a stong showing and
many races were decided by tenths and 
even hundreths of a second.
We have a real big squad this year, 
said Belowich. Im pleased with our 
work to this point.
The Tartans will swim in their first 
meet of the year this Saturday in Spring
field, Ohio as they will face Whittenberg 
College and UAA opponent Washington.
Last season Whittenbergs mens team 
beat CMU at nationals, and Washing
ton beat the women in the UAA finals.
IM football finals 
feature Delt wins
The intramural football season came 
to its apex under the lights of Gesling 
Stadium last Wednesday. The night fea
tured the championship games of the 
three divisions of play  Women, Mi
nors, and Majors.
The first game saw the five-time reign
ing champion Tartan Hoopers take on 
the Untouchables in the Womens divi
sion finals. The first half was close, and 
the Untouchables were able to score a 
touchdown early on, which was an ac
complishment itself as it was the first 
touchdown theHoopers allowed this year. 
The half ended 7-6 Hoopers. The Tartan 
Hoopers took over in the second half  
scoring twice more and finishing off the 
Untouchables 20-6 to take their sixth 
straight title. Junior Andrea Neillis of
the Hoopers was named MVP.
The second matchup was 
for the Minors division title. 
The Delt Scrubs, who fin
ished the season 7-0, played 
once-defeated Kappa Sigma. 
The match was a rematch of 
last years Minors final. The 
Delt team, which was com
prised mainly of pledges, 
found themselves down 13- 
12 with less than three min
utes left in the game. On the 
shoulders of freshman quar
terback Matt Linder the 
Delts were able to rally and 
score a late touchdown, de
fending their title and win
ning the game 19-13. Linder 
was named MVP.
Delt also played in the 
Majors championship. This 
game was in many ways a 
carbon copy of the Minors 
matchup. This time the Delt 
Scrubs, who were fielding a 
Majors team for the first time, 
played Beta Black & Gold. 
Early on it looked like Beta 
was going to defend their title
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
The IM football finals were held last Wednesday.
for the third straight season, as they up 20-18, and they held on to take
took a 12-0 lead into halftime. However, 
Delt stormed back in the second half, 
capped off by a pass from senior quarter
back Ben Reitz to junior Franklin 
Westbrook for a touchdown with 1:10 
left in the game. The score put the Scrubs
the championship in their inaugural 
season in the Majors.
Compiled By 
NATHAN STEINWALD 
& BRIAN SMITH
classifiedWHAT AN ASS!
That's what you'll say after a magical spell goes 
south and turns Bottom the Weaver into a donkey 
in Shakespeare's most entertaining romantic comedy...
NIGHT'S DREAM
by William Shakespeare
directed by Edward Gilbert
You may have been forced to read it (or ran out and bought the Cliffs Notes 
version to get through an exam), but this is your chance to experience 22 of 
New York and Pittsburghs finest professional actors tackle this Why do Fools 
Fall in Love? adventure.
And if youre a full-time student or under 25 you get in for only 10 BUCKS.
So come see a real Bard Ass - Only at the Public.
p\TTSBORGH OCTOBER 1 5 THRU NOVEMBER 15
Under 25 / Fulltime Allegheny Square - Northside
STUDENTS-$10
Cali for details.(412)321-9800
Visa  MasterCard  Amex
66687-81
|3itUtrorgl) $os-Gut\lt WJjl
JRAVEL
Spring Break '99-Sell Trips, Earn 
Cash & Go Free! Student Travel 
Services is now hiring campus 
reps/group organizers. Lowest 
rates to Jamaica, Mexico & Florida. 
Call 1-800-648-4849.
Absolute Spring Break. 2 Free 
Trips on 15 sales or Earn $$$$. 
**Lowest Prices** Free Meals, 
Parties & Drinks. 1-800-426-7710. 
www.sunsplash tous. com
Spring Break 99! Cancn *
Nassau * Jamaica * Mazatlan * 
Acapulco * Bahamas Cruise * 
Florida * South Padre. Travel Free 
and make lots of Cash! Top reps 
are offered full-time staff jobs. 
Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now 
for details! www.classtravel.com 1- 
800-838-6411
Low student and faculty fares to
international destinations. Good . 
domestic fares, AYH and Eurail 
passes. 9-5 M-F. 4609 Winthrop 
Street, off South Craig. Forum 
Travel 681-4099
Make easy money! Go on spring 
break free! USA Spring Break offers 
Cancn, Bahamas, Jamaica, and 
Florida packages and is currently 
accepting applications for campus 
sales representatives. Call 1-888- 
SPRING-BREAK.
5ALES
Plant Sale. Alex's Flowers. Corner N. 
Craig and Bayard. 687-4128, 687- 
ALEX.
Flowers for romance, platonic and 
more. Make someone smile. Alex's 
Flowers. 687-4128/687-ALEX. 
Delivery, www.alexsflowers.com
JOBS
Earn extra cash making a Web page 
working right in your dorm! Local 
entrepreneur has e-commerce 
opportunity to capitalize. Requires 
ability to write Web pages, Java, and 
"Shopping Cart". Call Mike at 765- 
1818.
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$10.00/wk
21-50 words...........$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 93, Issue 7The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 October 1998
Volleyball squad improves record at home
By MATT BRUN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Fresh off a dominating per
formance in their home tourna
ment on October 3, the CMU 
womens volleyball team contin
ued their preparations for the 
upcoming UAA championship 
tournament with a series of non
conference matches.
In their first match following
the tournament, the Tartans were 
roughly brought down to earth at 
the hands of Grove City College 
on October 6. Perhaps looking 
past Grove City after such an 
impressive performance just 
three days earlier, CMU gave one 
of their worst performances of 
the season, leaving head coach 
Julie Webb with little to say.
It was absolutely terrible.... 
We had no focus. Everyone has a
bad game once in a while, and 
this was ours, she said.
Fortunately for the Tartans, 
they didnt have too much time to 
brood over their poor performance 
as they were back in action two 
days later, taking on Carlow Col
lege. This match was an excellent 
example of the mental toughness 
the Tartans have shown all sea
son as they put the Grove City 
match behind them and returned 
to the form which had them talk
ing upset at the UAA tourna
ment earlier in the season. Lead
ing two games to one, but trailing 
14-10 in the fourth game, CMU 
rallied for six straight points to 
take the game and the match. 
The Tartans were led by junior 
Ashley Kinsey and freshman 
Anushka Nethisinghe, who both 
played outstanding games ac
cording to Webb.
Following the match, the Tar
tans finally got a chance to rest 
and collect themselves with four 
days off before last Tuesdays 
match at the College of Wooster. 
Convinced that the Grove City 
debacle was behind them, the 
Tartans went into the game 
brimming with confidence. 
[Wooster] took us to five games 
when we played them earlier, so 
we knew it would be tough, but 
we were confident that wed win, 
said Webb.
Once the game started, how
ever, those conservative predic
tions proved to be an incredible
understatement as the Tartans 
dominated the match and won 
easily to wrap up their threegame road trip. It wasnt a com
petitive game at all, Webb said.
Having pulled themselves back 
on track successfully, the Tar
tans returned to the friendly con
fines of Skibo Gymnasium last 
Friday for their first home match 
in almost two weeks against Mt. 
Aloysius College. Continuing a 
trend that stretches back to the 
October 3 tournament, Mt. 
Aloysius didnt provide too much 
of a challenge for the Tartans.
When we made the schedule 
for this year, we thought these 
teams would be tough matches, 
but weve improved so much, they 
arent much of a challenge now, 
Webb said. After taking the first 
point of the match, Mt. Aloysius 
earned only two more side outs 
during the first game, which 
CMU won 15-2. Aloysius didnt 
look like a team capable of giv
ing anyone a close challenge with 
two (or more) players literally 
running into each other on some 
plays and standing around 
watching the ball fall between 
them on others. In the second 
game, a combination of improved 
play by Aloysius and mistakes 
by CMU led to a more entertain
ing game that was closer than 
the 15-4 score would indicate, 
but not close enough that the 
Tartans were seriously threatPlease see VOLLEYBALL, page 12
Sports this week...
HOME GAMES IN CAPS
Football
Oct. 24, Washington University
Womens Soccer
Oct. 20, GROVE CITY, 7:30 pm 
Oct. 23, University of Rochester 
Oct. 25, Brandeis
Mens Soccer
Oct. 23, University of Rochester 
Oct. 25, Brandeis
Cross Country
Oct. 24, UAA Championships
Volleyball
Oct. 21, PENN STATE-ALTOONA, 7:00 pm 
Oct. 24, LaRoche Tournament
Mens & Womens Tennis
Oct. 23-25, National Rolex Tournament
Honors for a football coach ...
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
During haiftime of the football game last Saturday, former Carnegie 
Mellon football coach Chuck Klausing was recognized for his 
recent induction into the College Football Hall of Fame. Klausing 
coached the Tartans from 1976-1985.
Cross country runs 
at Duquesne meet
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor 
& BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Sports Editor
Continuing with their tradi
tion for success this season, 
the womens cross country 
team took first place at a race 
last weekend against some 
Division I competitors, includ
ing Duquesne University and 
the University of Pittsburgh. 
The mens team was able 
to finish a strong second be
hind Division I powerhouse 
Penn State.
The womens meet was chal
lenging since CMU, a Division 
III school, was up against local 
rivals from Division I. CMU se
niors Maureen McGranaghan 
and Margaret Powers took first 
and second place in the meet, 
leading the womens team 
to yet another exceptional over
all performance.
Womens cross country coach 
Dario Donatelli said, There 
was a little more pressure this 
week than normal. I had been 
telling [McGranaghan and
Powers] all week that I ex
pected them to place first and 
second. I know they were a 
little bit excited to run against 
the Division I girls. After 
earning first or second place 
on the team consistently this 
semester, McGranaghan 
and Powers have shown that 
they can live up to such 
high expectations.
The two are not the only 
reason the team performed 
well and is currently ranked 
fifth in the nation this season, 
since six CMU women placed 
in the top 13. An impressive 
performance by freshman 
Brook Cutler put her in fifth 
place at the meet while junior 
Melissa Sloan came in 11th, 
junior Andrea Burns came 
12th, and freshman Kelly Chin 
came in 13th. The women ran 
together and were all near 
30th place after the first mile. 
Cutler leapt ahead in the sec
ond mile while the others fol
lowed close behind. We usu
ally have six or seven [in the 
lead], so thats what makes 
Please see X-COUNTRY, page 12
Tartans lose Homecoming game
By JOSH McCONNELL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Anticipation was high last Sat
urday as the Tartans marched 
onto the turf in Gesling Stadium 
for their Homecoming game 
against the University of Chi
cago. Tartan fans and Carnegie 
Mellon alumni were greeted by a 
montage of painted students 
sporting the letters T-A-R-T-AN-S and throwing out CMUs own 
version of the terrible towel. Two 
of the high-spirited fans even con
vinced president Cohon to do the 
butt-dance with them in front 
of the 3,041 fans who attended 
the game.
Apart from the lively antics of 
CMUs cheering section, the 
battle on the field settled into a 
short-possession defensive battle 
that ended in a 9-7 Tartan loss.
The first few drives set the pace 
of the game. The Tartans first 
possession of the game ended in a 
fourth-down sack, one of many 
sacks to come as Chicago tallied a 
total of seven sacks in the game.
Fortunately, the Tartans were 
able to answer with seven sacks 
of their own, led by senior defen
sive tackle Anima Nwanko, who 
had three.
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff
Like the ball falling out of the reach of diving senior Matt Barnicles hands, the game slipped away from CMU.
Apart from sacks, the other sub
plot of Saturdays game was the 
punting game. Tartan sophomore 
punter Matt Young booted five 
punts for an average of 41 yards. 
Puntingis a mixed blessing. When 
you have a good game, it means 
that the offense is struggling, said 
Young. You just dont want your 
punter on the field a lot. Chicago 
was forced to punt six times.
Another thing that really 
might have hurt the Tartans last 
Saturday was the absence of jun
ior fullback and offensive staple 
Mike Campie, who is out with an 
ankle injury. Ankles are funny 
things. We hope hell be back, 
but well just have to wait and 
see, said head coach Rich 
Lackner, who is cautiously opti
mistic for Campies return in next
weeks game against Washing
ton University.
Fortunately for the Tartans, 
sophomore Josh Mugford was 
able to step in and perform well 
in Campies absence. Im glad 
for the opportunity ... to play, 
said Mugford of his 54-yard, one 
touchdown performance. But 
[Campie] is a great player and we 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 12
Soccer team faces regional opponents, struggles to score
By BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Sports Editor
The words of womens soccer coach 
Heather Kendra sum up the past two 
weeks of action best. Weve been play
ing well but are having trouble scoring. 
In this time the team has fought through 
three games, played in three overtime 
periods and hadmanaged to score only 
three goals.
The team traveled to Marietta College 
on October 8, where they faced the worst 
weather conditions of the season so far. 
It was muddy and wet and the Tartans 
had trouble getting crisp passes across 
or even staying on their feet. In addition, 
two of the teams top scoring threats, 
Gwyneth Gaul and Keri Pylypyshyn, 
were out with injuries.
Despite the hardships, the team was 
able to get 21 shots off, 11 of which went 
on net. [The Marietta] goalie was abso
lutely outstanding, said Kendra.
Marietta played a very physical game, 
drawing 18 penalties and two yellow 
cards. The CMU defensive front was able 
to hold strong though. Our back four is 
one of our strongest areas, said Kendra.
All these factors led to a tight game,
and, thanks to great defense and a few 
wipeouts on direct kicks, regulation time 
ended scoreless.
In the first overtime period, the 
gameplay was much the same and the 
teams remained deadlocked, forcing a 
second and final sudden death period.
Despite senior co-captain and goalie 
Lindsay Smiths four saves and over 10 
chances on net for the Tartans, Marietta 
scored on a corner kick and the game 
ended 1-0 in double overtime.
One thing that the team looked to 
improve on after the game was their
Dave Eyvazzadeh/Tartan Photo Staff 
Despite strong defensive play, the soccer team is on a four-game losing streak.
corner kicks. Weve been giving up too 
many corner kicks lately, said Kendra. 
Mariettas winning goal came on their 
ninth corner kick of the night, compared 
to only four for CMU.
Next on the schedule for the Tartans 
was a home game Tuesday, October 13 
against regional opponent Penn State 
Behrend. In spite of the loss to Marietta, 
CMU was ranked 10th in the region 
going into the game, and Penn State was 
not far behind. Needless to say, it was a 
very important matchup.
This was a very evenly matched 
game, said Kendra. We would domi
nate for a while and then they took over 
for a few minutes. The seesaw play 
continued throughout the game. Even 
the statistics reflect this, as Penn State 
had nine shots and five fouls compared 
to CMUs eight shots and six fouls. As in 
the previous game, regulation play 
ended scoreless and the Tartans played 
in their third overtime period in less 
than a week.
Luck was not on the teams side though, 
and they fell again in overtime on a 
corner kick.
Its very tough when you have two 
overtime losses in a row, said Kendra.
The team is fired up, but theyre also 
frustrated.
Finally, the Tartans traveled to Ohio 
last weekend to play regional foe Ohio 
Wesleyan University. Kendra had one 
word for this game  Huge.
Ohio Wesleyan has the leading scorer 
in the nation on their team, who was 
averaging three goals per game. Clearly, 
containment was a number one priority 
for the Tartans.
Kendra gave the task to senior Tracy 
Burton. Tracy played an excellent 
match, as did the rest of the back line, 
said Kendra.
Ohio was ranked third in the region 
going into the game, and played the 
Tartans tough all day. We didnt make 
a lot of errors but they took advantage of 
our mistakes, said Kendra. Its really 
frustrating when youre playing well and 
improving and everyone is playing hard 
but we just cant score.
The Tartans scored for the first time 
in three games early in the second half. 
Burton intercepted a Ohio goal kick out 
of mid-air and headed it to freshman 
Marissa Manheim. Manheim then 
dribbled across the 18 yard line and, as 
Please see SOCCER, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

T TTTT1T/Xralla n rara ni Hin nra
Volume 93. Issue 7The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 October 1998
Homeeommic
Students demonstrate spirit while networking
By SETH MANDEL
Tartan Personnel Manager
Eventually, all students 
become alumni and get the 
chance to take part in all of the 
festivities during Homecoming 
weekend. Until then, however, 
there are several ways in which 
students can participate in this 
event. Although Homecoming 
has traditionally been geared 
towards alumni, there were sev
eral events held this year to get 
current students excited about 
the weekend and get them more 
involved than in past years.
In an effort to promote aware
ness about Homecoming, the 
Student Alumni Relations 
Council (SARC) organized Spirit 
Week. This event consisted of 
SARC members giving out free t. shirts, mugs, and food to stu
dents for showing school spirit 
by wearing CMU apparel, 
singing the alma mater, and 
answering CMU trivia. The 
week of free giveaways culmi
nated on Friday afternoon with a 
free barbeque on the Cut that 
about 500 students attended.
We have heard complaints in 
the past about how there is noth
ing for students to do during 
homecoming and that it is just 
an alumni thing, said Dom 
Falso, a senior physics major 
and secretary of SARC. Since 
there was a need for students to 
do something, we felt that Spirit 
Week would be appropriate 
because school spirit goes along 
well with Homecoming.
Last year I didnt know any
thing about Homecoming. But 
this table and free food made me 
aware of it. Spirit Week is great 
because it brings the community 
together, said Thinzar Nyun, a 
sophomore economics major who 
visited the SARC table.
Tammy Manski, a junior 
industrial management major 
and vice president of SARC, said 
she was very pleased with the 
way students responded to the 
event. She said that she was sur
prised to see how many students 
actually knew the alma mater 
and by the fact that some stu
dents refused to accept a free tshirt until they were able to 
answer a CMU trivia question 
correctly. It is really encourag
ing to see that there really are 
people who are interested in 
school spirit, she said.
Many students decided to 
show off their Carnegie Mellon 
spirit in crazy and interesting 
ways during Spirit Week. I wore 
my CMU underwear just to get 
free hot chocolate, but then 
[SARC members] asked me not 
to take my pants off, said Ethan 
Bold, a sophomore computer sci
ence major.
Spirit Week attempted to 
inform students about the differ
ent events during the weekend 
by handing out schedules of 
events for students. While some 
of the events, such as the SDC 
Clippership, the Scotch n Soda 
production, and departmental 
receptions, have occurred year 
after year, there were some new 
events held this year to increase 
interaction between students 
and alumni. Two of these events 
were Across the Generations: 
Promoting Innovative Under
graduate Research in the 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, and Life After 
Carnegie Mellon: Business
Administration Alumni Panel 
Discussion and Reception.
At the H&SS program, stu
dents presented their research 
Please see SPIRIT, page L4
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
Representatives from many classes marched in the Homecoming Parade last Saturday.
Returning graduates recall campus years
By GREGORY NOFI
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Walking down the second floor hallway in 
the University Center on the way to Skibo 
Coffeehouse, students are surrounded with 
old photographs taken at times long before 
the University Center was even a thought 
in the administrations 
mind. Homecoming week
end serves as a time when 
these photographs come 
alive, and students get an 
opportunity learn about 
the memories behind 
those photographs.
The 600 alumni who 
came back for this years 
Homecoming represented * 
many different classes from 1928 to 1998. 
The one CMU campus they were able to 
share, however, was the CMU of today. 
Many alumni had a lot to say about the way 
the University currently appears. Their 
comments covered everything from the stu
dents to the physical spaces.
Theres a lot more facilities now  the 
University Center with the swimming pool 
is great compared to Skibo Hall, said Bill 
Hearn, a 1973 graduate from the Mellon
College of Science. I was here when they 
were building Wean Hall.... Before that, 
the buildings and the departments were all 
shifted on top of each other. Now, there is a 
lot more academic space.
Even alumni who graduated only  
decade ago commented about the current 
campus. Chris Hanson, a 1989 alumnus
"Theres a Carnegie spirit reflected 
by the faculty and students.... It 
pervades our system and makes us 
creative people. 
 Milton Cohen, 1928 alumnus
from the Department of Industrial 
Management, finished CMU just before the 
construction of the University Center and 
Posner Hall, as well as several other new 
buildings.
Its a lot different than when I went here
 a lot more impressive. The facilities are 
state-of-the-art, said Hanson. Id be a lot 
more comfortable sending someone to 
apply [to CMU] than when I was here.
Please see ALUMNI, page L3
CMU alumni enjoy a round of craps at the Through the Years reception and dinner.
Reading commemorates 
anniversary of magazine
By CYNTHIA KOS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Heres to 25 years of the Oakland Review 
and to the next 25, said English professor 
Gerald. Costanzo with a grin of accomplish
ment as he raised a cold can of Pepsi to the 
crowd gathered in the Adamson Wing late 
last Saturday afternoon.
Students, staff, and alumni of the 
Carnegie Mellon student-run literary maga
zine, the Oakland Review, gathered to cele
brate the unveiling of its anthology through 
readings and a reception. The collection 
commemorates 25 years of publication. Staff 
members such as editor Stacey Jenkins, a 
senior professional and creative writing dou
ble major, as well as various alumni, were 
present for the event.
Im really proud of how much its grown, 
said Christine Telfer, a 1987 alum, as she 
enthusiastically leafed through her brand 
new hardback copy of the anthology.
Students poetry, fiction, creative non-fic
tion, artwork, and photography have been 
highlighted in annual publications of the 
magazine for 25 years. Before the featured 
students and alumni read from the antholo
gy, Costanzo remarked on the development 
of the Oakland Review. Wild Grass Roots, 
the first edition, was published in 1972, and 
edited by Stan Muswick, Paul Berry, and 
George Evans. Through the Carnegie Tech 
era, other publications such as Wild Grass 
and later, the Carnegie Technical, were 
published in addition to the Review.
Following Costanzos remarks on the histo
ry, two students and seven alumni read their 
pieces featured in the anthology and some of 
their current work. All gave a brief preface 
regarding what inspired their work. Telfer, 
published in 1986 and 1987, read a piece 
from My Bulgarian Poems, which were 
inspired by her days as an English teacher in 
Bulgaria working for the Peace Corps.
Please see ANTHOLOGY, page L3
President welcomes 
alumni with address
By SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI
Tartan Staffwriter
The almuni are the heart of the rep
utation of Carnegie Mellon
University, said Jared Cohon at his 
annual homecoming address last 
Saturday. This morning event, in 
McConomy Auditorium, was
addressed to the returning alumni for 
Homecoming weekend.
The alumni are sources of support  
both moral and financial  for the 
University, according to Cohon. The 
money that the alumni have con
tributed have funded many projects 
and incorporated an outstanding fac
ulty, he said. Over 18 percent of our 
graduates remain in the Pittsburgh 
region, and this allows for numerous 
opportunities for students to explore 
around this area..
Cohon talked about how the 
Universitys reputation has risen over 
the past decades. Ten years ago, we 
were competing with Penn State, Case 
Western University, and Rochester 
Polytechnic Institute, he said. Today 
our main competition comes from the 
University of Pennsylvania, MIT,
Cohon noted CMUs recent rise in rep
utation and detailed his future goals.
Princeton University, and Johns 
Hopkins University.
He said that the new facilities have 
given the campus a greater sense of 
community. We have a great sense of 
enthusiasm of where we are and 
where we are headed.
Please see ADDRESS, page L4

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Drama box
Alum hatches unique farming operat
The School of Drama will be pre
senting Caryl Churchills Top Girls 
at the Kresge Theatre in the 
College of Fine Arts building. It will 
run October 23-31.
The play will feature master of 
fine arts candidate Bruce Wallace 
Hostetler as the director and an all
female cast of seven seniors.
Performances begin at 8 pm. In 
addition, there is a matinee schedon October 31 at 2 pm. For 
more information, contact the 
office.
This Thursday and Friday, 
the Department of Chemical 
Engineering will be hosting its 20th 
Annual Chemical Engineering 
Symposium in the Singleton Room 
in Roberts Hall. At the symposium, 
chemical engineering graduate stu
dents will present their work by 
giving talks or presenting posters.
Professor John Perkins, Director 
of Chemical Engineering and 
Chemical Technology at Imperial 
College, will give the keynote 
address, which is called Trends in 
Process Systems Engineering in 
the Singleton Room in Roberts Hall 
at 11 am this Thursday.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
The Business Administration 
Department has announced a new 
class next semester. The course, 
Written Communications, is
intended to complement other 
communication course offerings 
which included interpersonal and 
oral communication but lacked 
writing skills.
Business Communications is the 
only prerequiste for the course, 
which will be taught by Professor 
Chad Hermann. The class is tenta
tively scheduled to meet on 
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays 
from 1:30 to 2:20 pm.
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
The next Human Computer 
Interaction (HCI) Seminar will be 
held this Wednesday at 3:30 pm in 
Wean Hall 5409. This presentation 
is called Montessori Software: The 
1st Undergraduate HCI Project. 
The seminar will cover the work 
of a team of CMU students who 
worked with a grant from the state 
of Pennsylvania to wire the 
Pittsburgh Public Homewood 
Montessori School for 250 children 
in grades K-8 and ultimately set 
up a suite of software to implement 
the current curriculum there.
MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The Department of Physics will 
hold a Quantum Information 
Seminar this Tuesday at 4:30 pm in 
Wean Hall 7316.
University of California at Santa 
Barbara professor Todd Brun will 
present this lecture, which is enti
tled Informal Introduction to 
Quantum Optics and Quantum 
Trajectories I.
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
The Theory Seminar continues 
with a presentation given by Thomas 
Hales from the University of 
Michigan entitled The Kepler 
Conjecture. It will take place at 4:30 
pm in Wean Hall 7500 on Friday.
The pupose of this lecture is to 
show how this centuries-old prob
lem has been approached and the 
great advances and proofs that 
have been discovered recently due 
to extensive use of computers.
By KEVIN BABBITT
Tartan Features Editor
Not all civil engineers spend the 
rest of their lives building bridges.
Logan Dickerson, a 1948 civil 
engineering alumnus, started out 
doing so after graduation, but even
tually turned his attention to some
thing more diverse: ostrich farming.
He brought a few of the animals to 
campus last Saturday as a pari of 
the Class of1948 seminar on hobbies 
and pastimes during Homecoming. 
While we were not able to obtain an 
interview with any of the birds, The 
Tartan did manage to catch up to 
Dickerson to find out just what tran
spired to get him where he is today.
The Tartan: How did you get from 
civil engineering to ostrich farming?
Logan Dickerson: When I gradu
ated, my father had a small bridge 
construction company. I went to 
work for him and eventually 
bought his partner out. I carried on 
with my father until he passed on; 
after that, I continued building bridges 
as a construction-company owner.
In 1956,1 called the head of the Civil 
Engineering Department at Carnegie 
Tech and asked him about the status of 
pre-stressed concrete. He cautioned me 
that not much was known about pre
stressed concrete and advised me not to 
get into the business. But I went ahead 
anyway with the challenge, and later 
on, my company was chosen for the 
largest pre-stressed concrete building
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Dickerson used profits from his construc
tion company to move into ostrich farming.
the money we needed to do some other 
things.
I used to visit my grandparents on 
their farm in Virginia, and I enjoyed 
doing all the fun things a young lad 
would do  riding horses, pitching 
hay, gathering crops, playing with the 
animals. Since I liked it so much, in 
the early 50s, I bought a farm in 
Virginia. Of course, being an absentee 
owner and not knowing much about 
farming, it was a catastrophe. I decid
ed to sell the farm, but vowed at that 
time to get back in the cattle business
in the world at that time. This gave us . and do it right.
In 1970, I bought the farm we have 
now and hired one of the top cattle 
industry members to be my consultant. 
This time the operation was very suc
cessful, but the cattle business went 
south in the early 80s, and I decided to 
get out of it.
I had 500 acres of land and no idea 
what to do with it. I thought I might get 
into exotic animal racing, so I sent my 
manager to an exotic animal sale. He 
suggested that we get ostriches. I 
thought he was joking at first, but 
eventually said, Okay, lets get a pair, 
sort of as a lark  at least we could 
have them as pets, I thought.
We found out they werent pets; in 
fact, they will kick you very severely if 
youre not careful. So we began won
dering if we could make a business out 
of this. All of a sudden, the market for 
breeding ostriches started to expand 
quickly. The more we investigated the 
ostrich as a business instead of a hobby, 
the more we realized its potential.
TT: What sort of market is out there 
for ostriches?
LD: Its one of the most nutritious 
meats produced: high in protein, low in 
fat. The hide also produces one of the 
best leathers in the world  very sup
ple, very durable. It can be used for any
thing any other skin can be used for.
We began to produce various prod
ucts, primarily a highly nutritious 
meat stick. We obtained Kurt Angle, an 
Olympic gold-medal wrestler, to be one 
of our spokespersons.
We targeted people who wanted a 
tasty, convenient, nutritious snack that 
they could take with them  ostrich
meat does not need to be refrigerated. 
The first thing you know, we were in 
over 2000 GNC stores, and just recent
ly, weve been put into 5500 7-11 stores.
Fitness centers, health food stores, 
gymnasiums  thats our market. The 
flavor and texture of ostrich arent 
that much different from beef, but its 
much healthier.
TT: What was life like for an under
graduate at Carnegie Tech when ydu 
were there?
LD: One thing I remember distinctly 
was that if you wanted to wear a clean 
shirt to your afternoon classes, you h&d 
to change it in the middle of the day 
because of all the soot in the air. I used 
to go back to my fraternity house for 
lunch and change shirts.
When I started, the war was on, and 
there wasnt much of a social life on 
campus beyond the fraternities. A;s 
time went on, a lot of veteraiis 
returned, so the average age of my 
class increased by several years. The 
seriousness and devotedness to educa
tion was enhanced by their experience.
TT: What did you do outside of clash'?
LD: I played the French horn in the 
Kiltie Band. The football team wasnt 
as good then as it is now; during my 
time, they didnt win a single game: I 
think we had more fun at and after the 
football games than the players did.
We also had dedicated professors; I 
got a lot out of personal relationships 
with them. Because it was a smaller 
school than, it is today, the professors 
took more personal interest in yoftr 
education, particularly in the Civil 
Engineering Department.
Rooting for the home team..
ou;c}r icuiaii/ laiian rnuiu oiai t
CMU alumni cheered for the Tartans at last Saturdays Homecoming football game against the University of Chicago. Please see related story, page 14.
Former Poet Laureate shares work with CMU
By ALINA MASON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Visiting Writers Series offers an 
opportunity for current CMU students 
to hear great writers read from their 
work. Last Friday was no exception, 
when a former Poet Laureate of the 
United States came to visit and share 
the stories behind his poems.
William Jay Smith read selections 
from his latest book, World Below the 
Window, last Friday in the Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall. Smith is the second 
in a series of authors and poets 
brought to Carnegie Mellon as part of 
this years Visiting Writers Series. The 
Visiting Writers Series is sponsored by 
the Carnegie Mellon Creative Writing 
Department and made possible 
through the support of the Pauline B. 
Adamson fund.
[Smith] is a man of letters and one of 
the most distinguished writers in 
America, no doubt about it, said Hilary 
Masters, a professor of English at CMU. 
He is a wizard who blends the dark 
and light of life for our contemplation.
Smith, who has 50 published books of 
prose and poetry to his name, grew up 
south of St. Louis, Missouri. He attend
ed Washington University prior to serv
ing in the United States Navy during
World War II. After completing his mil
itary service, Smith was named a 
Rhodes Scholar and went on to pursue 
graduate studies at Oxford and 
Columbia University. What followed 
was a distinguished career as a writer 
and professor at Williams College, as 
well as a brief stint in the Vermont leg
islature. Smith attributes his political 
success to another American poet, 
Robert Frost. According to Smith, Frost 
campaigned for him by saying, Vote 
for this man; hes a good poet.
Smith read 15 selections in all, span
ning 60 years worth of his poetry. He 
said that one of his poems, The 
Closing of the Rodeo, was inspired by 
looking out of the window of his New 
York City apartment and seeing cow
boys ride by after the close of a rodeo in 
Madison Square Gardens.
American Primitive, which tells the 
story of a boy who discovers his father 
after he commits suicide, was inspired 
by Smiths own boyhood experience. 
Smiths father was a gambler who he 
mistakenly thought was dead upon dis
covering his seemingly lifeless body. It 
turned out he was not.
Smith called this poem another little 
American piece. One of the most strik
ing lines from the poem was He hangs 
in the hall by his black cravat.
Marianne Moore, a poet admired by 
Smith, sent a copy of his poem 
Cupidonne to T. S. Elliot. In response 
to one of the lines of the poem that 
talks about throwing 10,000 blankets 
on a fire, Elliot asked, What are all 
those blankets doing there?
The Floor and the Ceiling, one of 
Smiths most popular childrens poems, 
is the story of an argument between 
the floor and ceiling of a house. In the 
end, the floor and ceiling go their sepa
rate ways and are the worse for the 
parting. Smith said that he read this 
poem to a roomful of children and one 
little girl stood up and said, Its all 
about the Civil War!
[She will probably] grow up to be a 
poet and have a very difficult time in 
life, said Smith while recalling the lit
tle girl.
The man has 60 years worth of poet
ry; feeling his presence in the room, you 
can actually taste that wisdom, said 
Begliang Koh, a senior electrical and 
computer engineering major who 
attended the reading. He is like a 
familiar grandfather [in that] he 
doesnt talk down to you. His poems 
seem to transcend that generation gap.
He was really, really wonderful, 
said sophomore English major Amy 
Cyphert, who heard Smiths work for
Smiths poems impressed many w}]0 
attended the reading last Friday.
the first time. [His poetry] made tfie 
remember how much I loved hearing 
poetry when I was younger. You dont 
hear that kind of rhyme and meter any
more.
[Smith] was very captivating 
because he communicated in a very 
non-pedantic way, said Jeffery 
Schwartz, an anthropology professor ^ 
the University of Pittsburgh who also 
attended the event.
ON CAMPUS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998L3
ALUMNI, from page LI
Even though most students 
have not had access to other lab
oratories and research areas, 
many current undergraduates 
agree that the facilities are 
state-of-the-art.
I saw a pamphlet from a 
[Homecoming] event this past 
weekend, and I was reading 
about some of the facilities that 
the alumni had when they came 
here, said Kirstin Purdy, a 
senior physics major. I read that 
in the past the [departments] 
were always trying to get the lat
est equipment and bring it in to 
the laboratories. I believe that 
they are still trying to do that.
The alumni also had a few 
observations about the current 
students at CMU.
The students seem more seri
ous now. We let loose more often 
than we see them let loose, said 
Hearn. [Last] Friday night, 
[CMU] didnt seem like a mas
sive party area like it was in the 
old days. It seems like a quieter, 
more serious CMU now.
When I was going to school 
here, on Friday and Saturday, 
everyone was going to everybody 
elses parties and Spring 
Carnival was always the biggest 
deal of all, said Hanson.
Many current students said 
they do not think that there is 
a lack of social life at CMU, 
but they did feel that there is 
little to do on campus dming 
most weekends.
The only places where you 
hear about parties from is the 
fraternity quad, said Sirisha 
Reddy, a sophomore in 
 Humanities and Social Sciences. 
Theres a lot of off-campus par
ties, but you just dont see too 
;many on-campus events.
I think the times have 
changed. There are no longer 
things like escorting dates, said 
%an Laird, a sophomore busi
ness administration major. I 
think a part of the problem is 
that people dont want to stay on 
campus and watch a movie. 
They want to go out to clubs and 
things like that, but Pittsburgh 
i doesnt offer that.
The alumni had a lot to say 
about the spirit at CMU during 
a. weekend where school pride 
usually reaches a peak. Milton
Cohen, class of 1928 and one of 
the oldest alumni returning 
for this years Homecoming, 
believed that there was still a lot 
of pride on campus.
You have an enthusiastic 
crowd. Thats one of the things 
we have always had at 
Carnegie, said Cohen. Theres 
a Carnegie spirit reflected by 
the faculty and the students.
Here I am, 70 years later and I 
still have that spirit  it per
vades our system and makes us 
creative people. There is a 
Carnegie spirit that keeps with 
you all your life.
Many students felt that the 
majority of the current student 
body is lacking in school spirit, 
however. But whenever there is 
a school-wide event such as
Spirit Week to stimulate pride, 
there is a more spirited attitude 
around campus.
If there is a lack of school 
spirit here, I think there are a 
few people who totally make up 
for it, said Pinto.
Nevertheless, some students 
do believe that there is some 
spirit that students take with 
them after graduation from
CMU. While current under
graduates have not encountered 
this yet, some have been in 
other situations away from the 
school and have noticed results 
similar to those of the alumni.
Where I worked last summer, 
there was a group of active peo
ple from CMU who stuck togeth
er, said James Bruce, a junior 
computer science major. We
were all proud of where we went 
to school.
Overall, it seems that tilings 
have changed a lot at CMU 
since most of the alumni left 
campus. But based on many of 
the students agreements with 
the alumni, an old adage seems 
to hold true at CMU: The more 
things change, the more things 
stay the same.
WATH ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING* BUSINESS ANAL
TAKE TECHNOLOGYfiTO
MHkJkuflWHl DkkJUBLI n "Wl iir'HSfc HIT* Hill
When something is loo extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the 
level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems 
Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic 
Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. 
The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And 
we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. 
Make their mark.
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible 
level. You'll take it to the Nth.
We have a lot to tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the 
exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your 
college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website 
at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume 
Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266.
Internet: wv/w.rayjobs.com  E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.Raytheon
Digital authors need protectionJournal celebrates
The Geek Beat
by Ellen Beldner
Admit it. You know as well as I do 
that at some point youve fantasized 
about living on the Starship Enterprise, 
zipping through wormholes in daring 
escapes from the Borg and whiling 
away your idle hours in the holodeck.
One of the largest contributions of 
science fiction to the analog place we 
know as reality has been its technolog
ical vision. Say what you want about 
the genres dearth of insightful psycho
logical commentary, but techno-utopi
anism has its uses. When we read 
about Ender Wiggen (of Orson Scott 
Cards book Enders Game) playing war 
games in a null-gravity battleroom, our 
ears perk up.
Sci-fi allows us to dream about where 
technology can take us. It lets us try to 
make our lives imitate art. And 
although physicists generally arent too 
optimistic about the possibility of 
warping our way through millions of 
light years in the blink of an eye, 
artists conceptions of technological 
toys have helped fuel a market demand 
for the gadgets that place an everwidening gap between us and the cathode-ray tube..
Enter the eBook. Weve all seen 
Captain Picard sitting in his ready room 
holding a PADD  probably best 
described as a centimeter-thick portable 
computing device that functions as a
Web browser does with its ability to dis
play reading material. And in the words 
of the esteemed Captain himself, todays 
industries have begun to make it so. 
The SoftBook (www.softbook.com) and 
the Rocket eBook (sold through 
Levengers, www.levenger.com), devices 
that store digital texts in an electronic 
hand-held portable reader, are poised to 
start flying under Christmas trees this 
year. And Microsoft announced on 
October 8 that, in conjunction with sev
eral other companies, it will be develop
ing a set of eBook formatting guidelines, 
known as the Open eBook Standard.
As anyone who owns a pirated copy of 
QuarkXpress knows, it is virtually 
impossible right now for companies to 
keep their digital wares in the hands of 
paying customers.
Unfortunately, with current intellec
tual property laws and eminently 
crackable software protection, there is 
no way in hell that the electronic book 
industry will ever take off. If eBooks 
can be pirated the same way that 
Photoshop has been, Penguin and 
Time-Warner Books can kiss their prof
its goodbye as copy-happy readers turn 
a single purchased copy of Chicken 
Soup for the Soul into thousands of 
illicit ones.
(Not that the author of Chicken Soup 
for the Soul deserves any form of finan
cial compensation for his work  
frankly, Jack Canfield should be 
required to pay the hapless American 
public for pouring hundreds of pages of 
putrid drivel into our national psyche
 but as a society, well have to start 
coughing up the cash and honoring the 
idea of intellectual property if we ever 
want to see industries like electronic 
books develop.)
Enter Representative Howard Coble 
(R-N.C.) and the Digital Millennium 
Copyright Act (H2281). Although the 
bill has a title suspiciously reminis
cent of some techno-inspired Nike ad 
campaign, it is on its way to the White 
House with, extra copyright protec
tions for the intellectual property of 
the digital era. The bill creates crimi
nal penalties for anyone who cracks 
digital anti-piracy devices such as 
encryption. Additionally, it criminal
izes the import, sale, manufacture, or 
distribution of devices used to evade 
protective systems.
As depressing as this may be for 
those of us with over 500 megs of MP3s 
on our computers, we need both the 
new copyright law and a new attitude 
about intellectual property. Certainly 
many people would like to have 
portable MP3 players and a Rocket 
eBook r but artists and distributors 
will not produce the requisite music 
and books if they think there is no 
chance of their ever seeing a return on 
their time, skill, and creativity. But in 
return for our Visa numbers, eBook 
producers will undoubtedly have to 
drop book prices to a few dollars each 
(why pay print-book prices for a digital 
book when print prices are largely dri
ven by the costs of shipping, printing, 
and storage?) and refuse to keep 
records on the books that people pur
chase: Weve all heard and feared the 
stories of how the FBI keeps track of 
whos buying Mein Kampf.
Just about every sci-fi novel in exis
tence deals with the responsible or irre
sponsible use of technology. As long as 
we expect innovators to meet our 
demands for the latest gadgets, we 
have to hold up our end of the bargain 
and be a market, not a bunch of 
Chicken Sowp-stealing members of the 
hacker not-so-elite.
Ellen Beldner is a junior professional 
writing major whose monthly bill at 
Amazon.com is higher than Belgiums 
gross national product.
silver anniversary
ANTHOLOGY, from page LI
Im actually going to read 
this in Bulgarian, because 
sometimes you dont even 
understand what is trying to 
be said in English anyway, 
said Telfer before she began 
reading her poem.
A common inspirational 
theme between alumni Naomi 
Sussman, a 1979 alum, and 
Kristen Kovacic, who graduat
ed in 1985, was their children. 
Sussman read several poems 
created as she began to sur
round herself with her child 
and family. Lucy, an imagina
tive little girl, got into a bit of 
trouble for coloring on the 
walls in The Crayola Crime, 
and not eating her food in 
Lucy at Eight. Kovacic, who 
is a poetry consultant and 
assistant producer of Woman 
to Woman on Lifetime, 
addressed the issues of a moth
er torn between spending time 
with her children and having 
time to herself, as everything 
is action according to her 
Spending Time with the Children.
This is such a thrilling experience
 its something we never anticipat
ed, said Kovacic at the reception fol
lowing the readings. She recalled her 
years of editing the Oakland Review 
from 1982-85, when its office was in 
Skibo Hall, and it only had one desk 
and a single filing cabinet.
[It was] a thankless, but rewarding 
experience, she said. We just did it 
for the love of it.
The anthology includes approxi
mately 100 selected poems and 30 
short stories from 25 years of annual
Erica Yamada/Tartan Darkroom Staff 
Gerald Costanzo spoke on the history of the 
Oakland Review and other literary magazines;
poempublications. Students majoring in all 
disciplines are welcome to submit to 
the student-run publication each year. 
Copies of the Oakland Review have 
been distributed nationally to other 
universities and libraries.
The Oakland Reviews 25th anniver
sary anthology is available for pur
chase by emailing The Review at 
orandrew, and will also soon be ift 
circulation in the University librariesi 
The Review is also accepting submis
sions for the 1999 issue until January 
31, 1999. If interested, contact editor 
Stacey Jenkins at sjenkinsandrew.,:
Students contrast alumni stories with present-day CMU

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
By KATIE MARTINEZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Different colored shirts 
covered in writing were 
strung between trees on 
campus last Thursday, and 
while some may have casual
ly assumed it was an art pro
ject on display, the meaning 
behind the hanging shirts 
was quite different. Sexual 
Violence Awareness Week, 
which consisted of events 
held last Wednesday and 
Thursday, was a powerful, 
issue-oriented program.
There needs to be an 
increased awareness on any 
college campus about sexual 
assault, said Maria Muti, 
senior psychology major and 
gender issues intern.
The most visible of the 
events for Sexual Violence 
Awareness Week was the 
Clothesline Project, which unes of Twas on display between the 
UC and CFA last Thursday. It consisted 
of different colored shirts hanging on 
clotheslines, each having been decorat
ed by a sexual assault survivor. The dif; ferent colors of the shirts corresponded 
with the type of sexual assault the vic
tim had endured. Muti said, The 
Clothesline Project is a visual display 
that serves as a testimonial about the 
violence against women.
shirts designed by victims of sexual assault covered the Cut last Thursday.
Reactions to the project varied, 
although many felt that it was an effec
tive means of raising sexual assault 
awareness on campus. Many recog
nized the importance of the project, and 
a few even went around and read the 
words on every single shirt.
Sexual assault isnt a very reported 
crime, and I think the Clothesline 
Project was good for shock value, said
Rod Green, a first-year electrical and 
computer engineering major. Seeing 
the number of shirts out there was kind 
of staggering.
Other students didnt have such a 
supportive and positive reaction to the 
project. Some thought it was an art 
project on display and didnt recognize 
its intentions to raise awareness about 
sexual assault, and some students
chose not to pay attention to the pro
ject at all.
As soon as some people saw the word 
rape they turned around and walked 
away, said Muti.
The Clothesline Project was not the 
only event sponsored to raise aware
ness about sexual assault last week. An 
open forum on date rape took place last 
Wednesday night in the Morewood TV 
Lounge. Representatives from 
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape 
(PAAR) led a discussion about date 
rape with residents.
It was really informative, said 
Lesley Gena, a first-year art major 
who attended the event. I was sur
prised at how much I didnt know 
about date rape.
The Womens Center also led a 
Coffee Talk discussion about 
sexual assault, where both males and 
females discussed many aspects of sex
ual assault.
I think sexual assault is a very 
prevalent issue on campus, and it is not 
addressed enough, said Rachel 
Whipple, organizer of the Coffee Talk 
and sophomore psychology major. I 
think most people choose not to deal 
with it at all.
Although the Sexual Violence 
Awareness events reached a significant 
number of students last week, some 
feel like it should receive more atten
tion from the campus community.
Sexual assault is especially impor
tant to know about when youre on a
college campus, because it does hap
pen, and its something that people 
need to be aware of, said Gena.
On the CMU campus [sexual 
assault] definitely happens and it is 
definitely grossly under-reported, 
said Muti.
I think most people choose not 
to deal with it at all, and 
unfortunately, our campus is really 
apathetic, said Whipple.
Others felt it would be better if the 
intent of the Clothesline Project and 
other events of Sexual Violence 
Awareness Week were more explicitly 
stated. I got the impression that it was 
better explained and publicized last 
year, said Kristin Weinzierl, a sopho
more psychology major and Womens 
Center member. I think that part of 
increasing the awareness is making 
sure that people know why the 
Clothesline Project is there.
As for the continuation of raising 
campus awareness of sexual assault, 
the Womens Center is planning to 
sponsor events later in the year, and 
the Clothesline -Project will continue to 
be an annual event. To help increase 
the impact of the Clothesline Project 
next year, some are proposing that lit 
should receive more campus publicity.
I think the Clothesline Project 
should have been up all week and not 
just for one day, said Gena. The 
problem of sexual assault is not going 
away, so the more information we get, 
the better.Presidents address presents goals for CMUs future
ADDRESS, from page LI
Cohon has seven goals for increasing 
ithe Universitys reputation. One of
 these is to focus on education by con' tinuing to broaden the available cours
es for students. The expanded curricu
lum will allow students to cross regis
ter among colleges and take advantage 
of the variety of courses and strengths 
of the University.
I would like to see more computer 
 science and engineering students take 
: drama and music courses and vice
versa, he said. Along with this, I want 
to expand the extracurricular and 
sports programs on campus. This will 
allow more students to get involved 
and obtain various leadership positions 
and see what the University has to 
offer them.
Community success is another impor-' 
tant element of the University, accord
ing to Cohon. The diversity of the stu
dent body is an important characteris
tic for this success, he said. More 
interactions between the students and
faculty will create a community for 
everyone on campus.
The goal of the Capital Campaign is 
to raise $350 million by November 
2000. The campaign should broaden 
the donor base for the University, 
Cohon said.
As I walk around campus, I realize 
that I have the best job in the world, 
said Cohon. It is a pleasure to work 
with such an outstanding faculty and 
student body. It is a joy to be part of 
this University.
He acknowledged that CMU is a very 
rigorous institution and that the envi
ronment is serious and stressful. One 
of his goals is to see every student cry 
at commencement. He believes this will 
show the love that the students have 
for Carnegie Mellon.
In order to encourage more alumni to 
return, there will be a Young Alumni 
program during Spring Carnival start
ing this year. This program is for the 
more recent graduates over the past 10 
years to come and support buggy,
booth, and the other activities held dur
ing the spring season.
Some returning alumni had the 
opportunity to ask questions after the 
presentation. One asked a question 
regarding the landscaping of the 
University. She asked if there was 
going to be a formal entrance to the 
University. Cohon described the plans 
to extend the Purnell Center to cross 
over Warner Hall. This would provide 
grand entrance near the cut for stu
dents and staff to enjoy.
New Homecoming activities 
bring out CMU school spirit
Events increase awarenessof sexual violence
SPIRIT, from page LI
projects on poster boards on the 
second floor of Baker Hall and 
explained their work to alumni.
I think it was useful to talk to 
professors and alumni who work 
;in the field that my project was 
in, said Amy Cyphert, a sopho
more professional and creative 
writing major who presented a 
project. It was useful to get 
feedback and get good sugges
tions for references I could talk 
to and books I could read.
come back for Spring Carnival, 
students are generally unavail
able during that weekend. 
Similarly, the Business 
Administration department 
organized their Life After 
Carnegie Mellon program to 
allow students to benefit from 
hearing about the experiences of 
alumni who have been out in the 
work force. This event consisted 
of a panel of 10 industrial man
agement alumni who graduated 
from CMU between the years of
I wore my CMU underwear just to 
get free hot chocolate, but then 
[SARC members] asked me not to 
take my pants off. 
 Ethan Bold, sophomore CS major
Michael Cohen, a sophomore 
psychology and English major 
who displayed a project entitled 
Freewriting Under Different 
Mediums, also said that he 
: gained a lot from the event.
Basically, I saw it as an oppor
tunity to present my research 
; and get feedback on it from fac
ulty and alumni, he said.
 This event is good for the stu
dents because it provides them 
with an opportunity to talk to 
alumni and learn the roots of the 
University, where CMU came 
from, and what it used to be like 
here, said Allyson Halpern, 
director of development for 
H&SS and a 1988 graduate of 
H&SS and 1997 graduate of the 
' Heinz school. There is a cam, pus-wide effort to engage stu
dents in Homecoming and show 
' that it is not just for the alumni, 
but that it is a celebration for 
^everyone.
This is the one chance during 
the year for interaction between 
students and alumni, said Anna 
Houck, assistant to the Dean of 
H&SS. Although many alumni
1990 and 1997. Drawing on their 
experiences, they gave students 
advice about the importance of 
networking, how to present one
self in an interview, and factors 
to consider when deciding about 
continued education. Specifically, 
the graduates stressed the 
importance of independent 
thinking, becoming well-rounded, and developing strong com
munication skills. In addition, 
panel members discussed quality 
of life issues, the differences 
between what works in the class
room and what works in the 
office, and the importance of pur
suing ones interests. After the 
discussion, a reception followed 
to allow students to speak to 
alumni and do some networking.
We chose to set up the pro
gram this way because many 
undergraduates are worrying 
about getting a job and 
what life will be like after 
Carnegie Mellon, said Claudia 
Kirkpatrick, director of 
the undergraduate Business 
Administration program. We 
think their worries are ground
less, and part of our goal here 
was to reassure undergradu
ates and give them a level of 
comfort by hearing from some 
of our alumni who are doing 
wonderful work.
Carnegie Mellon students 
of any era have many 
things in common, she said. 
Particularly upon graduation, 
they discover a great deal of 
comfort in meeting people like 
themselves who have shared a 
similar set of experiences and 
who have gone before them.
I thought it was very insight
ful to hear from alumni about 
their experiences, said Luke 
Skurman, a first-year business 
administration major who 
attended the discussion. A lot of 
the things I had been thinking 
about were discussed. Hearing 
about real life experience is real
ly useful and helpful.
I think this is an important 
program because it allows vari
ous alumni to not only catch up 
with each other but to also talk 
to current students and share 
our experiences with them, said 
Nick Frollini, a 1997 industrial 
management graduate. I know 
when I was an undergraduate, I 
always found it very valuable to 
talk with alumni and find out 
what the real world was like. 
This program allows us to share 
our views, talk to students, and 
share some important informa
tion with them.
The goal of these programs 
was to involve students more 
with Homecoming and maxi
mize the benefit of the interac
tion between students and 
alumni. Manski explained that 
the success of Homecoming and 
student involvement in the 
weekend is a cycle.
If people become more excited 
about Homecoming now, then 
more will be excited to come 
back when they are alumni and 
will want to get involved with 
the students, she said.
The Palm III connected organizer keeps 
track of whats due 
and other important 
stuff, like your cute 
lab partner's phone number and Saturday's parties 
Touch the HotSync button to exchange and back up 
info with your PC (even download e-mail1 you havent 
read yet). About the only thing it can't do to make 
your life easier is write that paper. Organizers 
from Palm Computing start as low as $299 
For an authorized Palm III retailer or campus 
computer store, call 1-800-242-9005 or 
visit www.palmcampus.com.
rranwWMmnMm.ul! M SIM ^ I tal (*,STS
Palm III
Conflicted Orwaer

---------------------------------------------------

I CAN NO LONGER \ 
HOLD THIS INSIDE..
iEllonta Mm
if youre reading this is class, stand up
Did you know that Walt Disney World in Florida actually cop 
tains two entire cities? Both cities have their own governments 
residents, and full public service (including a fire department, water 
sewage, and electric company). Disney also has its own private airstrip 
where anyone can land but only Disney VIP pilots can take off fron 
 meaning if a non-VIP pilot lands, they have to disassemble thgi: 
airplane and remove it by truck. Just more evidence that we shoulc 
view Disney for what it really is  a plot to overthrow the govern
ment of the United States. You've been warned.
D ilbert'by Scott Adams
Doonesbury'
by Gary Trudeau
YOO CML THAT 
G>RATHING ??!
FNS S,N
OTHER NOSTRIL 
INVOLVE 0!
SOHOUJ'PU/EHOCP 
UP IN THE FUS 
TH& CUEEK, ERSKINE?
PRETTYGCP, SIR. PESPITE EVERYTHING THAT5 
BEEN PMPEP ON THEM, 
MOSTAMERJCAN5 APB STILL
_____ THEY RE
ALSO STARTING UPE 
TO CLAMOR FOPUHAT? 
YOU ID ACTUALLY 
PO SOMETHING 
ABOUTIT..
CAT&ERT THE H.R. DIRECTOR
ASOK, IT'S TIfAE 
TO GROOfA YOU FOI 
^ANAGEfAENT.
V
I DON'T SEE TOO 1 
fAANY BUGS IN 
YOUR FUR.
CAN YOU LICK \ 
THE TOP OF YOUR 
OWN HEAD? J 
V
THEN YOU \ 
CAM'T BE A 
MANAGER. 
-V-------------
MP. PRBSIPBNT, UJHAT ME 
MANT TO PO IN OUR SES
SION TOPAY 5 TRY TO 
SEPARATE OUT THE AN
GER FROM THE PENIAL -
LETS START AT THE 
BEGINNING. OHATUJOULP 
VU SAY HAS BEEN THE 
CENTRAL CONFLICTOF 
YOUR UFE?
HMM...IGUESS I SEETRY/NG TO REANPHOUJ 
CONOLE MARMOULPYOU
OKAY. SO  
BRILLIANTLY. THERE'S - 
THE PENIAL?.
WE'LL TAKE AWAY THE 
CUBICLE WALLS AND 
FORCE EMPLOYEES TO 
WORK IN AM "OPEN 
PLAN" OFFICE.
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS 
WILL RECORD THEIR 
EVERY /AOVE. WE'LL 
fAONITOR PHONE CALLS 
AND COEB USE. COE'LL 
EVEN TEST THEIR f 
BLOOD.1
COHO A, 
COWBOY! 
WAIT FOR 
PHASE TCOO.
PROS'. ..6ET 
50C1AL UFE 
RACK ON TRACK. 
Z. PSYCHIATPJ5T5 
AREP&CREET. ---------------
Sitlsi

---------------------------------------------------

I* v/6 NevetHAD OnSo Cui
Nu7 lwp cwu10I'M T(ju-iNfHfb T VO^ 
fvjOT NjlH HAS c ttfiNtD.
g&<7&by James MoJnnier
L. rc kc oAOlOu kild~- who klAO^S
bouu -ro 3ou,r
arms oLhf shraigh^r W&y 
Superrtfnj^^--'''''^^
u>an+-iDdctmbir H70
V-7Kt 7p/Vj
7v-ff oNuv/ is TMT
I r>tfj " M^wt Pt*rm Po'-j-ri 
irUNS A1 0 icicwTliTS 7*YiMOT0 0'iic67 V f/g Mt7aUA 0* LjflATevfK .
yThear t.u TMfcjl^NVo<(:. I
MyJiTFn P^tTTV S7</Wf*7 
/Viw. < <-Aw Uve 6Ob8c FCOvjArtb . TVlf WAV Cr & 0 Iiwrcot'or* HAf/'/ /
/u UGLL. ANV^AY / 0N6 /j uri
iAtk ItJ My <'* J*)f AT W4X/.W6 /outf>fA/JLr< o Sv*1i fHWVfitiW V" AjOUi.f^C____Tha^ ivas irtferesHrg 
William,- +- 'ool^fid 
moreirke -Vhe dead man's 
4'loa-l' of" ujha+- oje. 
call "Survival ploa+. "y
;!*/ MtSefM
umm
~k>: "\ Wed I GvYj A/ftrAC Mn *j jf rKrtj hAi A ru*J.
 Knoo-'j
Superman -fell off a Wse 
arvJ now he's just" a 
pile ofmeav In a y 
_chair !
MY PAP fA>S Fam ONPERWeA^ pe^L-Sy 
. Nice/
Wi+'A Loici as oar jtucJe (Heauef) help us .0 toe /rac/e our 
l-he. podh f /^-rr y-Ae coi/ ijMnvij ^cKrkroit
cou He rtesyM waicu o KetMewrtiNeltN\ 5l)Rg, I AiSkCV If H couup ^ITD^W 1 FI6UftP we COU up CHAT, H*Y& 11P HELP.
X mt c p rt> TALX a,bout day-to -day stu ir* hot that x &XDWT 6*jir'i--r, but -COULk^i AVoXQ XT. so 94Ulsho fV!80tfCfciWI0/7/9R
>.&.VM/\S ALONAT t-AST ROUNP5, 
uopkiP 3Lu6kt5u3% ttJTospecrive. 
XWA.K>Tep TbUlOAP f^Y fRLCf^STc
Step up toe \ - 
pact) sloiJpoikes
rffcUTSQ BApyT COLP FL IT. tftL-T
SeUFJsM^ Ci>'PLAiNJsJ6Aed^STCVe,5 
PLOP^AU, LXkTH/\TKiftki/^HfiftC:BU UF.
X Toup p.. fLAT OUT WHAT HAPPCVeP. T 
:et-T BAJ> FoR p. Bv Hg HAP KJ XP6A WHA.TT6 
iAY. MEPIPNT NEBP TO, I GU6SS...I W6W.
J/J6A.RLY Rfc WJJ RIGHT THl.~Z WA& WA;P6R6) IU L^PWJ|\)6FoK. >.&v 
3V0W6P. KJWI WA5 USlMGlTrcrttu-Y.
Coi^m&/\ I
la Encuesta sobre los historietas esta comiendo la sopa*
You should send In this survey. 2. What comics would you like 4. How can we make you laugh? 
If you don't, I will be most disto be reading regularly? 
pleased. Email: derekg+, or 
campus mail via the address
printed. ------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------
X 3VSr WAML6t> OUTTM l>o<>&. A^> f*t& 
No MTCWTlorJ og */HgR6 t WASCOI^S x ptuMX> Y H6AETUTAWP ITW^T ToPICSS.
I CoUUd6aKLY Focus NioCK xo pvt MY THOUGHTS INTO WR&S. U*k THt<U)Tr. 
I AM , I KM>CKt> wvr MUO on THFLooR.
SODCMLY, r F6LT TRAfP&>. XPeLT U(UE 
AN TPIOT VETM M>R-e NOVy.XfAAt>e OP 
soweexcuse ^eov/rwontiN -fHMtjvrwi.
1. Which comics do you read 
regularly? (circle 'em)
Dilate
Dilbert
Doonesbury
KidF
Non Sequitur 
Over the Hedge 
Robotman
3. If you could give a cat to one 
of the signers of the Constitu
tion, which one would it be and 
why? You may attach extra 
sheets.
Comics Guy 
The Tartan 
Box 17 rr
THIS STglP gEP1Tu668 uAA.V0.A *s TH& FlRST 3TR^P. X MAD PLAWNet>T flK)SH THE 56^.16* WrrM IT,
Howeve 7HATCHMj,et>.THeo.eiu*u vetaiaw was tou> fwwH..'s P^gpB-Twe^ifH no aw Cftm-ut'the comics survey is eating soup" - lit., the survey on comic strips is eating the soup'
L6 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
by Jim Meddick
0K...0U CKM 4TW UONt IF 
Xou CM*! NMAE 
TUE PRIN(WNlfeTER
op CM^PK
N THESECRETTOAPoWOFEUIL-TOJlN 
BRUCE AND EvJlLTYJIN HARTY..."saw uTnFn wiu.e.\?KW HA! KA
AWENTIffiARlAY WAHAW1 CF KEN STARRS TO 
WESTiSATE EVERY Mr-1 
ClTlZEM OF EVERYuimoH cm EAKm i/ffllft'm
raEWMKOFWre-HTi 
combined ira m senws 
FOR CIDMN6, HAVE PROW 
IAE THE IAEANS TO TOPPLE.
Prst,[Cgs,rt5rM2
JEW CHR11ER'cut TPA-Y Ife CA.NM>A-'4-
W, iO'NE (412) -(4t 
OUR traffiPRfe PPUCW
&ET Uff PM^E, 
OR WUU (M^TUE W*
TO HOT TOWTWE 
StREP 2raingpppp
&eMM9HIT.
NlASIER.
I TttltAK W/S. 1 VEflPULP v^'yZii, Hi C^^ilrwSPr
p offSi<_ - , iltnraiimttjianui51998 Wiley Miller / dist. by The Washington Post Writers Group[TO ge COMTP.
WHKTY TO 1(00 fSlfW0!E ) WAS A GUY WHO L00K6P
rL LIKE KN STARR. SOlMG 
jf^T THROUSH YalR DlfnY
#f]Vv ymoBi... >
iuavecswevan \BKIN THE SEARCH ASSORTMENT OF SOILEP \ FOR DUBIOUS 
UNDEPeARMEl'iTS.O' / STAINS AND DMA, 
W/fTN (AASTER-xA BJIC6MC6.' .
UP/1 
romxA 
, THERE.'
0' EVILWASIER, WE'RE WINS APPARENTLY, \HCfi AREDIFFICULTIES TOPPUNe WE THE Ffl&tcH ITHEY EliEN
GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE ...J MS: WOT /ASHNaSP 
ASttMAEP \ 0FWATCHW6omTo hu; i r.i'um
KE6P IW0IN&TUERE MUST eg SOMETHING 
THE FRENCH f IMP 
m/WUATIMG.'TWEPe 
MUST BE SOWIE...
WE JUST WTAWEP A PHOTO OF TUE FRENCH PRIME 
NMNISTERSNENqusiNTt) EURoDiSNE.Y AtOp, 3 EATING A BIS h&Z  ___- , -4
LET W.E BE 
TttE FIRST TO CPttWUUCt 
Xoy OH TVS FfAb&E. F 
.Xo<jR.PE1Tfl0N 
lUTo U5NYotfRE VJHPe^ sdtya,r
V11=K
f^THlS SAURE" NWES KEN STARR'S ^ INVESTIGATION LOOK UKE A WITCH-HUNT 
WHEM.INFACT, ITS ABOK IME Itili!! 
k BILI CLINTON BROK THE LAW. PERIOD!^
IfTORIHKTMAH' M> START WH WS TAY - pewpws.'^
M,  \WEffi STILL AWAnWSlAB INCRIIMNATlHS) P6SULTS,o'0/iL0H6... WASTAWS kZ._ ^ ,-s?^LwKSNNER WEN 
INVoLveP IN N5CM4PMCPNMDERED TO BE TU1N&?
/ AMD AS A N ? LAW-ABWIUS, 
[Vim-BSW-WING kCoNSERVA-TWe, 
L 1KW1ST,l Phcn2uy
NSVERlMHPIlCUETHlS C01A\C.I .TAKE IT i All BACK.
SW-STOP THIS
 2PCt2gvmy10-15
0 EVILt*ASTER,*IE'RE HMIN6 
TROUBLE \)MP6AWIN6 TW& - leAteps of tue FA right...
AJD6E. BORK, W YCV UKE 10 ATTEWD A 
BARIS-RAISING AH? mit ME R* tAY FlRSERS 1UR01IGH VoyR CHM HMRuTnU nav1s 9OPtr vts &v hvtsb
SOUMAPPEAUW TD THE OPWSlTC sw THftT WO ONE 
uSd CCME2 ON to THEM...
WaL,WM>Tj\)S.T 
^lAWD THEREj GO 
FINDMEOOTBALL SOWEI/jHEPEWHO'S 
WUM6 TO 
SEWCE THEM\T4 TNKEN W 'EM3. OF REFIMtM^CMTfe, tAARt, BUT 
l TUIHK VSE FINM-LYOT&MMTtEPTUKT
W>RREL-.
vmy.
xaessNWE'iiL-miN ]smullhWON. HIS ARfAYOF KEW STARRS 
HAS PIIM66R THE WOKP iwrO 
SCANDAL WHILE THE WORLP J .ECONtHAY CaiAPSESi S
WAtT...WOWY...SOME1HIN6'S 
HAPFEMlNSi.We KftJ STARR CLONES 
H*IE RUti OUT OF EOP TO
iMesTfAv-re.'. .Tue/'pe <xm$b 
to Mesnem byLo relia2?...
I CAN'T BEAR 
TO WATCH ANYM0P6...
ISN'T IT TRte X BASED CN IAY UNDERSTANDING . 
THATCN 3||16 \0F1HETER.YS"REtiT"AND"'IIC{B 
YOU REtJTED tH&\->EFIN6D UMCSR ARTICLE 261 >1 IDEO "BAKLY OF THE FEDERAL CODE., I 
IE2AL BRIEFS : WOULD HAVE TO SAY I DON'T ,
HARVARD IAW hi RECALLC0K>lM6BRlt/
V PARTY1?-. / G_1 X A
FAMILY TUERAPY W0RK6 
BKT WUEN WE DEW. 
W1TU oNLY of (46UE 
KT c TIME...N0W WUo
-,n 04Fu Fnk8 -
)Lr, Co F1RCT?
TWKT'4 NoT 
WWKT WE 
fAEAWT, BoB..,
vii=y10-17
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
01998 United Feature Syndicate. Inc.
MOW MORE REFKIEP-GLUB&.. PRUNES FOR TH
! BLOCKED-BO Yi!
WRONG,Momy-o... VO SAY VERNES LASTING 
IMPRESSION.
...IN TEN YEARS YOURE GOING TO LOOK BACK ANP SEE YOUVE LEFT NO LASTING 
frtPRESS ION OH THIS 
EARTH.
MOM, OlO YOU COME ALL THIS WAY JUST TO HASSLE ME?
VERNE,IF YOU KEEP UP THIS PACE......IS PRETTY i. FORM-FITTING^ 
RIGHT iiOW.GEE... f WHAT KIND OF PERSON DEVELOPS SUCH AN INTENSE INTEREST IN THE DIGESTIVE TRACT?
WHERE HAVE I HEARD THAT VOICE BEFORE?
VERNIE... MOM, APTEK YOUWHY ARE WERE TRAPPED YOU HERE ANP FORCED NOW? TO LIVE IN THE \ K-MART PET\ DEPARTMENT...
ITS NEXT TO MY TRAVEL IRON.
0 THIS IS YOUR MOH?i...' I THOUGHT YOU ; CAME PROM THE . PET DEPARTMENT  AT K-MART.
THAT WAS FOUR YEARS AGO.' ,DO YOU EVEN REMEMBER HER?
X WAS CAPTURED AND SOLD INTO DISCOUNTING.
..I WAS OBSESSt> WITH FINDING YOU/VEf\NEY... 
...BE A DEAR AND GET MY TRAVEL FAN..
IT'S COMING BACK TO ME....OPRAHS BEEN ON A REAL ROLL (
VERNIE,, YOU UVE LIKE A UOGt
IT WAS RIGHT HERE UNDER OUR PRIDE A SECOND AGO.
MOM, WE KNOW WHERE EVERYTHING IS.
HOWABOUTYOURPIGHITY?
VERNE, SWEETIE, WOULD YOU COME HELP YOUR MUMMY APPLY HER EYEBROWS?
SO, HOW LONGS YOUR MOM STAYING?
TWO DAYS MORE... TOPS.
irtwJ^S io

---------------------------------------------------

IYDD ALL, IWEYD KMYO NTHRScDR
CARNEGIE MELLON POLICY ON UNIVERSITY FINAL EXAMINATIONS 
Preamble
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the 
undergraduate courses (defined as courses that are numbered 6xx or below). These policies repre
sent an understanding between faculty and student concerning an important but often stressful period 
at the conclusion of each academic semester. There should be no expectation that the following points 
will cover every conceivable situation. The student should anticipate the demands of the end-of-semester schedule, plan accordingly and early, and be prepared. The faculty should recognize that the 
student is encumbered with many tightly orchestrated and intensive obligations during this period over 
which he or she has no control: expectations should be reasonably consistent with the number of 
course units and, of course, should be made known to the student well in advance of the final exami
nation period.
Definitions
 The universitys official final examination period begins on the Monday immediately following the 
last day of classes and continues through the last day of scheduled final examinations, with the 
exception of reading day(s).
 Scheduled final examinations are those scheduled by Enrollment Services. An instructor may 
choose not to fix a schedule for the final examination, but instead allow each student to choose the 
examination time; such exams are called self-scheduled examinations.
 Final examinations can either be comprehensive, covering all course materials, or non-comprehensive, covering only a part of the course.
Policies
1. All scheduled final examinations are held at the end of the semester during the universitys official 
final examination period. Comprehensive final examinations are not required for each course, but 
are given at the option of the department or instructor. The reading day and weekend preceding 
the examination days shall never be used for examination purposes of any kind, unless a student 
opts to take a self-scheduled examination during this time. Non-comprehensive final examinations 
or final projects (but not both) are allowed during this final examination period only in courses that 
do not give a final comprehensive examination.
2. Instructors are expected to return all work assigned no later than 72 hours before the final exami
nation in the course. In cases when this is not possible, an answer key, solution sets or equivalent 
feedback should be provided unless the final examination will not cover material in work that has 
not been returned.
3. No other coursework, including laboratory or studio work, will be due during the final examination 
period unless it is assigned in advance and in lieu of the courses final examination. Regardless of 
whether there is a final examination in the course, no classes other than review sessions shall be 
held during the final examination period. Review sessions should be scheduled for optimal atten
dance, and a serious effort should be made to accommodate students who cannot attend. In 
appreciation of the time required to prepare for final examinations, no other examinations, portfolio
reviews, critiques or juries shall be scheduled within four days of the final examination of the same 
course.
4. Instructors shall never exert or submit to pressures to move an examination so that people can 
leave earlier nor pressure students to take an examination on a reading day or weekend preceding 
examinations.
5. No student is required to take more than two scheduled examinations that start within a 24-hour 
period. A student who has more than two examinations scheduled within a 24-hour period or has 
two examinations scheduled at the same time should contact first the instructor of the course for 
assistance in resolving conflicts. If the problem cannot be resolved by that means, the student 
should contact the associate dean of his or her home college.
6. Take-home final examinations shall be given for any 24-hour period of the students choosing 
during the final examination period.
7. Students are expected to present themselves at the place assigned at the start of the examination; 
late arrival will reduce the total time a student has to complete the examination, unless instructors 
course policy indicates otherwise. Instructors reserve the right to require attendance within a 
specific time period. Students who miss an examination with a reasonable excuse and wish to 
petition for a make-up final examination should check with the instructor. Instructors are encour
aged to include late arrival policy and make-up exam policy in the course syllabus.
8. Any student shall be permitted to review his or her corrected, graded final examination in the 
presence of an instructor or a teaching assistant. Any controversy arising from this review shall be 
dealt with in accordance with the university procedure for the appeal of grades and academic 
actions. A final examination which is not returned to a student will be kept available for a year for 
review. In the event that the instructor or teaching assistant is not available for the review, the 
responsibility shall rest with the department head of the instructor offering the course or his or her 
designee. Since instructors are expected to return all work assigned before the final examinations, 
they are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
9. Concerns related to final examination, complaints about violations of the final examination policy 
or alterations of the final examination schedule should be directed to the department head of the 
instructor offering the course or to the associate dean of the students home college.
Contact
Questions concerning this policy or its intent should be directed to: Indira Nair, Vice Provost for Educa
tion, X8-5865.
Information
Please reference http://www.cmu.edu/hub website for further information on exam cancellations or
classroom changes.
Biological Sciences
03121
03240
03330
03439
MODERN BIOLOGY 
CELL BIOLOGY 
GENETICS
INTRO TO BIOPHYSICS
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. UC McConomy Robotics
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. WEH 7500 16811
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. WEH 7500 16859/18819
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. SH 224 16861
MATH FUND FOR ROBOT 
SP TP:ROB MNFTR MEMS 
MOBILE ROBOT DESIGN
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. DH A317 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. WEH 5403 
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. WEH 6423
Human-Computer Interaction Institute
05610 INTRO TO HCI
05630 PRGMG USABLE INTFCE
05631 SFTWR ARC USR INTRFC
Chemical Engineering
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
06100 
06151 
06201 
06204 
06301
06609/09509
06703
06713
INTRO TO CHEM ENGR 
THERMODYNAMICS 
PRINC TRANS PROC II 
CHEM ENGR THERMDYN 
CHEM ENGR KINETICS 
PHY CHEM MACROMOLE 
ADV FLUID DYNAMICS 
MATH TECH CHEM ENGR
06717/42609/709 BIOTCH & ENVRN PRCSS 
Chemistry
09103 ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNG
09105 INTRO MOD CHEMSTRYI
09106 MODERN CHEMISTRY II
09117 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I
09131 LAB I: INTR CHMY ANL
09206 PHYS PRIN ANALY CHEM
09244 QUAN PRINC PHY CHEM
09248 INORGANIC CHEMISTRY
09509/06609 PHY CHEM MACROMOLE
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Mon., Dec. 14 
Fri., Dec. 11 
Mon., Dec. 7 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Fri., Dec. 11 
Mon., Dec. 14 
Tues., Dec. 8
8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
Language Technologies Institute
11511/11711 ALGORITHMS FOR NLP Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
11711/11511 ALGORITHMS FOR NLP Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
Civil and Environmental Engineering
12100 INTRO CIV & ENV ENG
12251 INTRO EN VIR ENGIN
12271 IN CO AP CIV ENV ENG
12331 SOLID MECHANICS
12411 ENGINEER ECONOMICS
12611 PRO JCT MNGMNT CONST
12631 STRUCTURAL DESIGN
12651 -751/42651 AIR QUALITY ENGIN
12704 PR EST MTHD ENG SYS
12706/73359 CIV SYS INV PLN PRCE
12720 WATER RESOURCE CHEM
12740 CAE TOOL
12741 ADV PROG CNCPTS CAE
12751 -651 /42651 AIR QUALITY ENGIN
Computer Science
15129 PRGMG & MODN MATH
15211 FUND STRUC CMP SC I
15212 Lee 1 FUND STRC CMP SC II
15212 Lee 2 FUND STRC CMP SC II
15213 SYSTEM LEVEL PRGRM
15312 PROG LANG DES PROC
15381 ARTFL INT RP PR SLV
15384 ROBOTIC MANIPULATION
15385/15685 COMPUTER VISION
15412 OPERATING SYSTEMS
15413 SOFTWARE ENGINEERNG
15451 ALGORITHMS
15453 FRM LANG & AUTOMATA
15462 COMPUTER GRAPHICS I
15492 COMP SCI IN COMMUNTY
15671 MODEL SOFTWARE SYS
15672 METHOD SOFTWARE DEV
15681 MACHINE LEARNING
15685/15385 COMPUTER VISION
15711 PROGRAMMING LANG
15740 COMPUTER SYSTEMS
15781 MACHINE LEARNING
15829 ADV DATABASE APPLCTN
15849 Sec. B ADV TOPC COMP SYSTMS
Mon., Dec. 7 5: 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:
Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
Fri., Dec. 11 1:
Tues., Dec. 8 1 :
Fri., Dec. 11 5:
Mon., Dec. 14 8: 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:
Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
Tues., Dec. 8 5: 
Mon., Dec. 14 1: 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Fri., Dec. 11 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Mon., Dec. 7 
Fri., Dec. 11 
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Tues., Dec. 8 1
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Mon., Dec. 14 5: 
Fri., Dec. 11 
Tues., Dec. 8 5: 
Mon., Dec. 7 1
Fri., Dec. 11 
Tues., Dec. 15 8 
Mon., Dec. 14 8: 
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Tues., Dec 8 1
Wed., Dec 9 . 1 
Fri., Dec. 11 5
Mon., Dec. 7 1
Mon., Dec. 14 8
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
00 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m.
DH 1112 
WEH 6423 
MM A14
WEH 7500 
DH 2315 
HH B131 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
WEH 5403 
PH 226C
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Tues., Dec. 8 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 108:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 15 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
DH 2315
DH 2315 &DH 2210 
DH A317
DH 2105
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m.
DH 2210  
DH 2315 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH 1212 
DH 1112
SC 203 
SC 203
WEH 7500
DH 1212
HHB131
HHB103
HHB103
DH A317
PHA18B
PHA18A
SH 125
HHB103
BH 235B
PH 226C
PHA18B
PHA18A
MM 103 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
PH 100
UC McConomy 
SH 125 
DH 2315 
DH 1112 
DH 1112 
PH 100 
HHB103 
PH 100 
WEH 7500 
WEH 7500 
DH 1211 
SH 125 
WEH 7500 
SH 125 
DH 1112 
WEH 5409 
WEH 5409 
PHA18A 
WEH 8427 
WEH 5403
18100
18200
18220
18240
18304
18312
18316
18322
18347
18370
18396
INTRO ELEC COMP ENGR Mon., Dec. 7 
MATH FONDTON ELE ENG Mon., Dec. 14 
FUND OF ELEC ENGR Fri., Dec. 11 
FUND OF COMPUT ENGR Tues., Dec. 8 
ENGR ELECTROMAG II Tues., Dec. 8 
SEMICOND DEVICES II Tues., Dec. 8 1
IN DATA STOR SYS TCH Fri., Dec. 11 
ANAL/DES DGTL CIRC Fri., Dec. 11 1
INTRO TO COMPUT ARCH Mon., Dec. 14 1 
FNDMNTLS OF CONTROL Thurs., Dec. 108: 
SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS Mon., Dec. 14 5:
18482/19402-712 TELCOM TCH POL & MGT Mon., Dec. 7 8: 
18550 FUND OF COMM SYSTEMS Thurs., Dec. 101
18715 PHYS OF APPL MGNTSM Tues., Dec. 8 5
18751 APPL STOCH PROCESS Thurs., Dec. 108:
18756 PAC SWTCNG COMP NETWFri., Dec. 11 5
18765 DIG SYS TST & TST DS Mon., Dec. 14 8
18771 LINEAR SYSTEMS Mon., Dec. 14 5
18791 DGTL SIGNAL PROC I Tues., Dec. 15 1
18819/16859 SP TP:ROB MNFTR MEMS Tues., Dec. 8 5
18859 SPEC TPC COMMUNICTNS Mon., Dec. 7 1
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m.
Engineering and Public Policy
19101 INTRO ENGR & PUB POL Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
19402-712/18482 TELCOM TCH POL & MGT Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
19444/19744 TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER Thurs., Dec. 108:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
19712-402/18482 TELCOM TCH POL & MGT Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
19744/19444 TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER Thurs., Dec. 108:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
Mathematical
21101
21105
21111
21112
21121
21127
21131
21228
21235
21241
21256
21257
21259 Lee. 1
21259 Lee. 2
21260
21300/21600
21301
21341
21355
21369
21371
21373
21470
21600/21300
21624
21681
21803
Sciences
FR MTH:FIN DF EQ MDL Mon., Dec. 14 1:
PRE-CALCULUS Mon., Dec. 14 1:
CALC HUMANITIES I Mon., Dec. 7 8:
CALC HUMANITIES II Thurs., Dec. 105:
CALCULUS 1 Thurs., Dec. 105:
CONCEPTS OF MATHMTCS Mon., Dec. 14 1:
ANALYSIS I Mon., Dec. 14 8:
DISCRETE MATH Mon., Dec. 14 5:
MATHMTCL STUDIES I Fri., Dec. 11 8:
MATRIX ALGEBRA Thurs., Dec. 108:
MULTI ANLYSIS APPROX Tues., Dec. 8 8: 
MODLMETH OPTIMIZATN.Thurs., Dec. 105:
CALCULUS IN 3-D 
CALCULUS IN 3-D 
DIFFRENTL EQUATIONS 
BASIC LOGIC 
COMBINATORIAL ANALY 
LINEAR ALGEBRA 
ADVANCED CALCULUS I 
NUMERICAL METHODS 
FUNC CMPLX VARIABLE 
ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURES Tues., Dec. 15 
SELECTED TOPC ANALYS Thurs., Dec. 108: 
BASIC LOGIC 
SELECTED TOPICS 
STOCHASTIC CALC FIN 
MODEL THEORY III
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Mon., Dec. 14 8: 
Thurs., Dec. 108: 
Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
Mon., Dec. 7 5: 
Thurs., Dec. 108: 
Mon., Dec. 14 1: 
Mon., Dec. 14 8:
Thurs., Dec. 108: 
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Mon., Dec. 14 5:
00 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m.
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m.- 
8:30 p.m.
Mechanical Engineering
24101 FUND OF MECH ENGR
24221 THERMODYNAMICS I
24311 NUMERICAL METHODS
24322 HEAT TRANSFER
24323 THERMODYNAMICS H
24421
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
INTERNL COMBST ENGNS Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
Materials Science and Engineering
27100 MATERIALS IN ENGR
27201 STRUCTRE OF MATERLS
27304 MAT SCI ENGIN LAB 
27311 PHASE RELATIONS
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.
DH 2210 &DH 2105 
MMA14&MM 103 
HH B103 & HHB131 
DH 2210 
DH 1209 
SH 224 
PHA18B
PH 100 & PH 125C 
UC McConomy 
SH 220
HH B103 & HHB131 
SH 125 
SH 125 
SH 324 
HHB103 
DH 2210 
DH 1212 
DH 1112
HH B103 & HHB131 
WEH 5403 
SH 125
HHB131 
SH 125 
PH A20 
SH 125 
PH A20
WEH 6423 
HHB103
MM 103 & MM A14 
MM 103 
PH 100
DH 2210 &DH 2315
HHB103
DH 2315
WEH 6423
DH 2315
DH 2210
DH 2210
UC McConomy
DH 2315
DH 2210
HHB131
DH 1112
WEH 5403
WEH 7500
WEH 5403
WEH 6423
PHA18A
WEH 6423
HH B131
WEH 6423
SH 125
WEH 8427
DH 2210
HH B103 & HHB131 
SH 125 
SH 125 
SH 220 
SH 422
DH 2315 
DH 1112 
DH A317 
DHA317

---------------------------------------------------

27321
27357
27421/27721
27432
27542
27721/27421
27776
27778
27779
27780
Physics
33106
33107 
33111 Lee 1
33111 Lee 2
33112 
33211 
33225 
33232 
33331 
33341 
33345 
33439 
33445 
33453 
33467 
33755 
33757 
33759 
33761 
33777
Statistics
36201
36202
36207/70207
36217
36220
36225
36325/36725
36401
36461
36705
36709/36749
36725/36325
36742
36749/36709
36753
TRANSPORT & KINETICS 
INTRO TO MATLS SELEC 
PROCESSING DESIGN 
ELEC MAG OPT PR MAGS 
STR PROP THIN FILMS 
PROCESSING DESIGN 
FOUNDTN MATERIAL SCI 
MATHEMTCL METHODS 
BOND/CRYSTLS/DEFECTS 
THERMODYNAMICS
Mon., Dec 14 5: 
Mon., Dec. 14 1: 
Thurs., Dec. 101: 
Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
Mon., Dec. 14 1: 
Thurs., Dec. 101: 
Mon., Dec. 14 5; 
Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
Fri., Dec. 11 8:
Mon., Dec. 7 8:
30 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m.
PHYSICS ENGR STUD I 
PHYSICS ENGR STUD II 
PHYSICS SCI STUD I 
PHYSICS SCI STUD I 
PHYSCS SCI STDNTS II 
PHYS HI: MOD ESSENT
Mon., Dec. 14 5: 
Tues., Dec. 15 8 
Mon., Dec. 7 8 
Mon., Dec. 7 8: 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:
Fri., Dec. 11
QUANTM PHY STRUC MAT Fri., Dec. 11
Tues., Dec. 15 8: 
Mon., Dec. 7 5 
Thurs., Dec. 105 
Tues., Dec. 15 1 
Tues., Dec. 15 8
PHYSICAL ANALYSIS 
PHYSCL MECHANICS I 
THERMAL PHYSICS I 
MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYS 
INT ELEC & MAGNET n 
ADV QUANTUM PHYSCS I Fri., Dec. 11 
INTERMEDIATE OPTICS Thurs., Dec. 10 8: 
INTRO TO ASTROPHYS Mon., Dec. 14 5: 
QUANTUM MECHANICS I Mon., Dec. 7 5: 
CLASSICAL MECHANICS Fri., Dec. 11 8:
INTRO THEO PHYS I Tues., Dec. 8 1:
CLASSCL ELCTRODYN I Mon., Dec. 7 1:
INTRODTY ASTRPHYSICS Thurs., Dec. 108:
STATISTCL REASONING 
INTRO STAT METHODS 
PROB & STAT BUS APPL 
PROB THEO RNDM PROC 
ENGR STAT QUAL CTRL 
INTRO PROB & STAT I 
PROB MTH & STAT I 
ADV DAT ANA I REG AN 
UNDERGRAD SEMINAR 
INTERMED STATISTICS 
EXP DES BEH SOC SCI 
PROB MTH & STAT I 
STAT MTHD HUMANITIES 
EXP DES BEH SOC SCI 
PROB THEO STOC PR I
30 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
;00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m.
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m.
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
.11:30 am.
SH 212 
HHB131 
WEH 6423 
WEH 8427 
PH 226C 
WEH 6423 
BH 235B 
DH 1211 
DH A317 
WEH 5403
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
UC McConomy 
BH 136A 
DH 2315 
DH 1112 
WEH 5403 
DH 1212 
WEH 7316 
WEH 5403 
WEH 6423 
WEH 5403 
WEH 8427 
WEH 8427 
WEH 6423 
WEH 8427 
WEH 7316 
WEH 8427 
WEH 6423 
WEH 8427
Biomedical Engineering
42100 BIOMED ENGR SEMINAR
42377/42777 REHABILITATION ENGNG 
42500/42735 PHYSIOLOGY 
42609-709/06717 BIOTCH & ENVRN PRCSS 
42651/12651-751 AIR QUALITY ENGIN 
42709-609/06717 BIOTCH & ENVRN PRCSS 
42735/42500 PHYSIOLOGY 
42777/42377 REHABILITATION ENGNG
Architecture
48210
48240/79227
48310
48317
48340/79228
48363
48364
Mon.,Dec. 148:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.UC McConomy
Mon.,Dec. 75:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.DH 2210
Mon.,Dec. 148:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH 100 & PH 125C
Mon.,Dec. 75:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.UC McConomy
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.PH 100
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PHA18C
Mon.,Dec. 75:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PHA18A
Mon.,Dec. 141:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.PH 126 A
Tues.,Dec. 85:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.BH 235A
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.MM 103
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PHA18C
Mon.,Dec. 141:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.BH 235A
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.MM 103
Fri., Dec. 111:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.PHA18A
Mon.,Dec. 145:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.SH 125
Fri., Dec. 118:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.DH 2122
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.DH A317
Tues.,, Dec. 88:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH 226C
Mon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.PHA18A
Tues.,, Dec. 88:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH 226C
Mon.,, Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.DH A317
Fri., Dec. 118:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.DH 2122
Mon.,Dec. 148:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.WEH 7500
Tues.,, Dec. 85:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.MMA14
Tues.,, Dec. 81:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.MMA14
Mon.,, Dec. 148:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.BH 136A
' Tues.,, Dec. 88:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH 125C
STATICS
HIS SRVY WLD ARC URB 
STRCTS 2 BLDNG PHYCS 
SITE.ENGIN FOUNDATN
MODRN ARCH & THEORY Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
ARCH HENRY HORNBOST Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
Design
51373-773/76361 LANGUAGE IN DESIGN 
51773-373/76361 LANGUAGE IN DESIGN
Drama
54785/54885 COLLOQUIUM
54885/54785 COLLOQUIUM
Music
57151 Sec. A & B 16TH CENT COUNTRPNT
57152 HARMONY I
57153 HARMONY II
57257 ORCHESTRATION I
57332/57893 INTRO TO CONDUCTING
57334/57834 FUND MARCHING BAND
57360/57860 BRASS METHODS
57376/57876 MUSIC SEC SCHOOL
57457 JAZZ HISTORY I
57459 SC RDG KYBD HARM
57834/57334 FUND MARCHING BAND
57860/57360 BRASSMETHODS
57876/57376 MUSIC SEC SCHOOL
57893/57332 INTRO TO CONDUCTING
57924 MOZART OPERAS
H&SS Interdisciplinary
66250/79219 INTRO TO RELIGION
66315 HOLOCAUST IN HST PER
Business Administration
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
MMA14 
BH 255A
PHA23
PHA23
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. PH 125C 
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. PH 125C
Mon., Dec. 14 8: 
Tues., Dec. 8 1:
Tues., Dec. 15 8: 
Mon., Dec. 14 1: 
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Fri., Dec. II 1: 
Mon., Dec. 14 5: 
Mon., Dec. 7 8: 
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Tues., Dec. 8 1
Fri., Dec. 11 1
Mon., Dec. 14 5 
Mon., Dec. 7 8: 
Thurs., Dec. 105: 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:
30 a.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m.
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
.8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
70100
70122
70160 Sec. A 
70160 Sec. B 
70207/36207 
70208
70325/73325 
70332 Sec. A 
70332 Sec. B 
70361
70364
70365 
70371 
70381 
70391 
70393 
70415 
70422 
70440 
70451 
70456
70482
70483 
70497 
70520 
70637 
70640
Economics
73100
73110/88110
73248
73250
73260
73300
INTRO TO BUSINESS 
INTRO TO ACCOUNTING 
INTRGRACMNCTNSI 
INTRGRACMNCTNSI 
PROB & STAT BUS APPL 
REGRESSION ANALYSIS 
EXP FNDT EQUBRM INT 
BUSINESS & SOCIETY 
BUSINESS & SOCIETY 
FOUNDATIONS OF LAW 
BUSINESS LAW 
INT TRADE & INT LAW 
PRODUCTION I 
MARKETING I 
FINANCE I
FIN ANAL & SEC TRDNG 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP I 
COST ACCOUNTING 
BUS LDRSHP & STRATG 
MGMNTINFORMATN SYS 
TELECO & NTWRK MGMT 
MARKETING RESRCH II 
MARKETNG COMMNCTNS 
OPTIONS
PUBLICITY & PUB REL 
INTACT MED DES PROD 
EMRGNG GRAPHC TECH
PRINC OF ECONOMICS 
SOC DEC MKG:LAB APPR 
ENVIRONMENTAL ECON 
INTERMED MICROECON 
ECONOMETRICS I 
INTERMED MACRECON
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m.
Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 5:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
Fri., Dec. II 5:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 15 8:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 15 8:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m.
Thurs., Dec. 108:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 1:00 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 15 8:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.
73325/70325
73357
73359/12706
73360
73365
73371
73372 
73458
EXP FNDT EQUBRM INTTues., Dec.85:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PH A20
REG: THEORY & POLICYMon., Dec.148:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.BH255A
CIV SYS INV PLN PRCETues., Dec.85:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.HHB103
ECONOMETRICS IIMon., Dec.75:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.MM 103
INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNTues., Dec.158:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH A18B
INTNAT TRADE ECO DEVFri., Dec. 118:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PHA18A
INTNL MONEY/FINANCEFri., Dec. 111:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.MM 103
MONEY AND BANKINGTues., Dec.81:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.MM 103
English
76233
76245
76294 Sec. A 
76294 Sec. B 
76330 
76332
EPIC: MORTLS & GODS 
SHAKESPEARE 
INTERPRETIVE PRACTCS 
INTERPRETIVE PRACTCS 
WORDS IMAGS MID AGES 
EARLIEST MODRN POETS 
76371/51373-773 LANGUAGE IN DESIGN 
76371/51373-773 LANGUAGE IN DESIGN 
76372 INTRO TO JOURNALISM
76389/76789 GRAMMAR ST WRIT ENG 
76396/76796 WRIT & PUB INTEREST 
76476/76876 RHETORIC OF SCIENCE 
76492/79277/82492HIS IMG 19TH CEN LIT 
76789/76389 GRAMMAR ST WRIT ENG 
76796/76396 WRIT & PUB INTEREST 
76876/76476 RHETORIC OF SCIENCE
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 15 8:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 108:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m, 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Mon., Dec. 7 
Mon., Dec. 7 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Tues., Dec. 8 
Mon., Dec. 7
8:30 a.m. 
5:30 p.m. 
8:30 a.m. 
l:00p.m. 
8:30 a.m. 
5:30 p.m. 
8:30 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m.
BH 235B 
BH 355 
PHA18B 
BH 255A 
PH 225B 
BH 255A 
PH A23 
PH A23 
CFA211 
BH 355 
PH 225B 
PHA19 
BH 235B 
BH 355 
PH 225B 
PHA19
History
79104
79152
79156
79201
79203
79205
79219/66250
79222
79227/48240
79228/48340
79230
79231
79232/88319
79237
79241
79270
INTRO WORLD HISTORY Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
FR SM:REL POL MID ET Fri., Dec. 11 I: 
FR SM:WAR & REVOLUTN Thurs., Dec. 108: 
INTRO TO ANTHRO Tues., Dec. 8 1:
INTRO SOC HISTORY Tucs., Dec. 15 8:
20TH CENTURY EUROPE Mon., Dec. 7 5: 
INTRO TO RELIGION Mon., Dec. 14 5:
RELGN AMERICAN SOC Tues., Dec. 8 8:
HIS SRVY WLD ARC URB Tues., Dec. 8 5: 
AMER BUILT ENVIRNMNT Tues., Dec. 8 8: 
TECHNLGY AMER SOCTY Fri., Dec. 11 1:
AMFORGNPOL 1945-PR Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
VIETNM AMER LOST WAR Tues., Dec. 8 1 :
INDPNC TO CIVIL WAR Tues., Dec. 15 1: 
AFR-AMER HISTORY I Mon., Dec. 14 8:
ICHINESE CULTRE SOCTY Mon., Dec. 7
79277/82492/76492HIS IMG 19TH CEN LIT
79280
79299
79300 
79304 
79315 
79331 
79341 
79346
79350/88326
79410
79490
79720
79740
79800
Philosophy
80101
80135
80150
80180
80210
80250
80270
80305/80605
80310/80610
80605/80305
80610/80310
Mon., Dec. 7 
Tues., Dec. 8RUS HIS FRSTLSTTSR 
INTRO TO ARCHAEOLOGY Mon., Dec. 7 
FESfVLS & CEREMONIES Mon., Dec. 7 
USES OF HISTY IN FLM Mon., Dec. 7 
ADVERTSG & AMER CULT Tues., Dec. 8 
CRIME & PUNISHMENT Tues., Dec. 8 
WAR & TECHNOLOGY 
INTL ENVR LAW & PLCY 
ISS INTERNTNL RELTNS 
HIS & POL PROJ CORCE 
LANGUAGE ENRICHMENT Mon., Dec. 7 8: 
ISS HISTRY & POLCY Thurs., Dec. 105 
CULT SOCTY & HISTORY Thurs., Dec. 101 
RESEARCH SEMINAR Fri., Dec. 11
Thurs., Dec. 105 
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Thurs., Dec. 105 
Thurs., Dec. 105
00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
00 p.m. 
30 a.m. 
30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 a.m.
11:30 a.m. UC McConomy, 
PH 100, DH 2210 &DH 2315 
4:00 p.m. PH 226A 
11:30 a.m. BH 235A 
4:00 p.m. SH 125 
11:30 a.m. BH 355 
8:30 p.m. PHA18C 
8:30 p.m. BH 136A 
11:30 a.m. PHA18A 
8:30 p.m. MMA14 
11:30 a.m. PH 125C 
4:00 p.m. BH 355 
4:00 p.m. PH 125C 
4:00 p.m. BH 136A 
4:00 p.m. PHA18C 
11:30 a.m. PH226A 
4:00 p.m. PHA18C 
4:00 p.m. BH 235B 
11:30a.m. PHA18B 
11:30 a.m. BH 136A 
4:00 p.m. BH 355 
8:30 p.m. PH 226A 
8:30 p.m. PH A18A 
11:30 a.m. BH 136A 
8:30 p.m. PH 125C 
4:00 p.m. BH 235 
8:30 p.m. BH 235B 
8:30 p.m. PHA18A 
11:30 a.m. PHA22 
8:30 p.m. BH 237B 
4:00 p.m. BH 237B 
11:30 .m. BH255A
FR SM:MATHMTCCONTXTFri., Dec. II 5:30p.m.
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 8  5:30 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m.
INTRO POLITC PHILOS 
NATURE OF REASON 
NATURE OF LANGUAGE 
INTRODUCTN TO LOGIC 
HIST ANCIENT PHILOS 
PHILOS OF MIND 
RATIONAL CHOICE 
LOGIC COMPUTBLTYI 
RATIONAL CHOICE 
LOGIC COMPUTBLTY I
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m.
CFA 157 & CFA 160 
CFA 157
CFA 157 & CFA 160
MM 116
CFA 157
CFA 157
MM 119
CFA 157
CFA 160
MM 116
CFA 157
MM 119
CFA 157
CFA 157
CFA 157
BH 136A 
PHA18A
DH2315 
UC McConomy 
BH 235A 
BH 237B
PH 100 & PH 125C 
DH 2315 .
PH A20 
PH 100 
MM 103 
MM 103 
MM 103 
DH 1211
DH 2210 &DH 2105 
HH B103 & HHB131 
UC McConomy 
DH 1112 
MM 103 
PH 226A 
MM 103 
DH 2210 
IA SIMON AUD 
BH 355 
PH 125C 
IA SIMON AUD 
PH 226C 
PH 226A 
BH 255A
DH 2210 &DH 2315 
PHA18B 
BH 235B 
UC McConomy 
PH 226C 
WEH 7500
Modern Languages
82103 
82122 
82123 
82131
82141
82142
SELF-PACED FRENCH 
ELEMENTARY GERMAN II 
SELF-PACED GERMAN 
EL MANDARIN CHINESE 
ELEMENTARY SPANISH I 
ELEM SPANISH II 
82161 Sec. A & C ELEMENTARY ITALIAN I 
82161 Sec. B ELEMENTARY ITALIAN I 
82171 ELEM JAPANESE I
82187 FR SM:FRENCH CINEMA
82191 ELEM RUSSIAN I
82201 INTERMED FRENCH I
82221 INTERMED GERMAN I
82231 INTERMED CHINESE I
82241 INTERMED SPANISH I
82242 INTERMED SPANISH II
82261 INTERMED ITALIAN I
82271 INTERMED JAPANESE I
82273 INTRO JAP LANG/CULT
82291 INTERMEDIATE RUSSIAN
82303 TEXTES ET SOCIETE
82304 FRANCOPHONE WORLD
82305 CONTEMP SPOK FRENCH
82325 INTRO GERMAN STUDIES
82342 SPN HSP LANG & CULT
82344 US HISP:HSP LAN CU C
82371 3RD YEAR JAPANESE
82391 ADVANCED RUSSIAN
82399 RUSSIAN CULTURE
82435 STUDIES GERMAN LIT
82492/76492/79277 HIS IMG 19TH CEN LIT
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 5:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 5:30 p.m. 
Tues.,Dec. 15 1 :Q0 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 8:30 a.m.
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 1:00 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 7 8:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 101:00 p.m. 
Tues,, Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 5:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 1:00 p.m. 
Fri., Dec. 11 5:30 p.m.
Mon., Dec. 7 5:30 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 1:00 p.m.
Tues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 1:00 p.m.
Mon.,Dec. 14 l:00p.m. 
Tues., Dec. 8 8:30 a.m. 
Thurs., Dec. 105:30 p.m. 
Mon., Dec. 14 8:30 a.m. 
Mon., Dec. 7 1:00 p.m.
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
4:00 p.m.
Psychology
85100
85120
85211
85213/85713
85219
85221
85310
85340
85380/85780
85713/85213
85780/85380
COGNTV PROCESSESTues., Dec. 15 1:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.
GENERAL PROGRAMMING Fri., Dec. 11 1 :l
COGNTV PSYCHOLOGY 
INFO PR PSY ART INT 
BIOL FOUN OF BEHAV 
PRINC CHILD DVLPMNT 
RSCH MTHD COG PSY 
RSCH MTHDS SOC PSY 
HIST DEV EXPER PSYCH 
INFO PR PSY ART INT 
HIST DEV EXPER PSYCH
Tus., Dec. 15 1 
Mon., Dec. 7 5 
Mon., Dec. 7 1
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Thurs., Dec. 101 
Mon., Dec. 7 5: 
Fri., Dec. 11 8
Mon., Dec. 7 5 
Fri., Dec. 11 8
00 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:00 p.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m. 
:30 p.m. 
:30 a.m.
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
11:30 a.m.
PHA18C 
BH 136A 
PH 100 
BH 136A 
BH 136A 
BH 355 
PH 126A 
PH 126A 
BH 235B 
PH 126 A 
BH 235B
PHA18A 
BH 237B 
PH 126A 
MM 103 
BH 136A 
BH 237B 
BH 136A 
PHA18A 
DH 2315 
BH 355 
BH 235B 
PHA18C 
PH 226A 
MMA14 
BH 136A 
BH 355 
PHA19C 
MMA14 
PHA18A 
PH 226C 
PH 226A 
PH 226A 
PH 226C 
PH226A 
BH 355 
BH 237B 
PHA18A 
PH 237B 
PH 126 A 
PH226C 
BH 235B
UC McConomy , 
DH 2210, DH 2315 
SH 125 
PH 100 
SH 125 
MMA14 
WEH 7500 
PH 226A 
PH 125C 
PH A22 
SH 125 
PHA22
Social and Decision Sciences
88104
88105
88110/73110 
88220 
88223 
88240
88271
88272 
88302 
88313
88319/79232 
88326/79350
DEC PROC AMER POL INTues.,Dec. 158:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH100
INTRO WORLD POLITICSTues.,Dec. 158:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.BH136A
SOC DEC MKG:LAB APPRMon.,Dec. 71:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.PHA18B
POLICY ANALYSIS IThurs,,, Dec. 108:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH100
DEC AN DEC SUPSYSTFri., Dec. 115:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PH100
EMPIRCL RSCH METH ITues.,Dec. 85:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.PH100
FNDMTLS SYS DEVLPM IMon.,Dec. 78:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH100
APPLCTN DESGN & DEVMon.,Dec. 145:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.WEH 7500
BEHAV DECSN MAKINGThurs,,, Dec. 101:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.BH355
RATION VALS DEMOCRYTues.,Dec. 88:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m.PH125B
VIETNM AMER LOST WARTues.,Dec. 81:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m.BH136A
ISS INTERNTNL RELTNSThurs.Dec. 105:30 p.m. 8:30 p.m.BH235B

---------------------------------------------------

401
Would you pay 
$42 for a 
cup of coffee?
Probably hot. So why pay 
higher auto insurance rates 
just because you 're a student? 
If youre a responsible driver, 
InsureDirect can help.
With InsureD/rect 
you could save 
up to 25% or more.
lnsureDirect is llie better way to get 
your car insurance. We keep our 
rates low by insuring safer drivers - 
whether they're students or not. And 
you deal directly with us - theres 
no middleman commission to pay.
Your rates could be 
even lower if you qualify 
for these discounts.
 College Graduate - A special 
discount saves 4 year college 
graduates money on premiums
 Good Student Is your GPA 3.0 or 
better? If so. you could save more 
 Safe Vehicle - Depending upon 
the model and year of your car, 
you could save more
 Find out about even more 
discounts when you request your 
free quote
Plus, InsureDirect 
gives you advantages 
other companies dont.
Your low rates are locked-in' for 
a full 12 months
 100% first year replacement 
cost on new model year cars - 
no extra charge
 24 hour customer service and 
claims accessability
InsureDirect
The only way to find out if you 
qualify for car insurance rates 
at savings up to 25% 
is to call InsureD/rect now. 
Toil-Free 1-800-826-3300. ext. 37
Save $50! - Request your free quote 
over the web at www.insuredirect.com
Underwriting Companies: Reliance Insurance Company. Reliance Insurance company of Illinois'. Reliance Direct Insurance Company. Reliance National 
Indemnity Company. Reliance National Insurance Company. Reliance Reinsurance Company. Reliance Surety Company. United Pacific Insurance Company.
Insure Direct products, features and programs not available in 
all states, and the availability of discounts may vary by state.Keycode: 8DEEAC
Another Deloitte Consulting Difference
THEM: 
Get a life
DELOITTE CONSULTING: 
Got a life
Work/life balance. The buzz of the moment Everyone in corporate America is aware of the 
research showing people's desire to get ahead in their company while getting more out of life
away from the job.
Deloitte Consulting has long been committed to helping people achieve this important balance
 well before it was "the thing to do. Here, youll work hard. And, yes, travel is often involved. 
But we also have programs in place that ensure your other responsibilities can be met
We just happen to think that an employee who is relaxed, fulfilled, involved, content - ultimately 
does a better job. So, is it any wonder that Deloitte & Touche was named in Fortune's list of 
The 100 Best Companies To Work For In America? If youre intent upon building your career 
with a firm that understands your need to balance your personal and professional goals,
consider us.
Were looking for top performers to participate in either our Systems Analyst
or Business Analyst Program.
As a Systems Analyst at Deloitte Consulting, you will work with seasoned professionals on 
high-profile assignments, as well as take part in technical and management consulting training 
courses offered around the country. After training, you will hit the ground running  and take 
on meaningful responsibilities and tackle significant business problems leveraging
state-of-the-art technologies.
The Business Analyst Program is designed for individuals wishing to pursue an MBA from a 
top business school. As part of a client engagement team, youll develop both consulting and
business competencies.
For more information regarding employment opportunities with our firm,
please see your Career Counselor.
Visit our Web site at www.careers.dtcg.com
A very different approach. For very different results.
Deloitte & Touche Consulting
Group
2 Ci 
bi
01998 Deloitte & louche Consulting Group UC
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group is an equal opportunity firm We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national
origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or veteran status.

---------------------------------------------------

?ma
>SBLyVfOC
Volume 93, Issue 7DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 October 1998
the off road to retail
W ' \ V vr .. '  V } . . ' '\ia1
ethnic food  rare vinyl  stores with character  shop different
Local stores make food easier
By LARITA Y. HAMILTON
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Dining facilities on campus certainly 
have the potential to become monoto
nous. Some students choose to cook for 
themselves, but even that can mean 
eating the same thing every day and 
shopping in the same places. But vari
ety, and a different shopping experi
ence, is just a bus ride or short walk 
away. There are many specialty foods 
stores in Pittsburgh that boast a wide 
array of goods. They range from or
ganic produce to ethnic foods and even 
some that specialize in vegan entrees.
Shadyside Natural Food Market, 
owned by John Mineo, is a 46-year-old 
family-owned business. Its longevity 
is proof that organic and natural foods 
are not just a fleeting trend. Mineo 
said he sells organic goods to keep his 
customers happy, which is the most 
important thing in his line of business.
Besides just organic fruits and veg
etables, Mineos store boasts an im
pressive stock of imported candies, 
meats, and cheeses. Fresh coffee beans 
and a wide assortment of imported teas 
occupy their own section of the store.
Hardto-find gourmet ingredients can 
also be found there, as well as everyday 
products like dishwashing liquid.
While Shadyside Natural Food Mar
ket is a smaller store, the East End Co
op is the largest supplier of natural 
foods in the area, according to General 
Manager Dan Poe. Open since 1980, 
this store sells organic produce, supple
ments, and body care items, among 
other things. It also has a deli and a 
caf that cater especially to vegetarian 
and vegan clients.
Im a vegetarian, and there isnt 
much variety on campus, said Anusha 
Ananthanarayanan, a first-year com
puter science major who frequents the 
co-op. I was fine the first month, but 
the food on campus is starting to get 
old. My parents brought me food from 
New Jersey once, but I had to start 
finding food on my own. I just dont 
want to be stuck eating salads at the 
Highlander forever.
Some stores in the area cater to people 
of certain ethnicities and sell food that 
might not otherwise be found in the 
United States. Alexander Ryzhik 
opened Ethnic Foods, located in 
Greenfield, 40 years ago. He specializes
in European meats and cheeses and 
other deli goods. Not only does he pro
vide his customers with hard-to-find 
foods, he speaks Polish and Russian, as 
well as English, with his customers.
Like Ryzhik, Mimi Kato, owner of 
Tokyo opened her store because it 
wasnt easy to find the rare products 
that she was looking for. Tokyo, which 
has been open for eight years, sells 
Japanese food products. One of the 
moste important things about these 
stores is that they provide the people of 
Pittsburgh with a variety of interesting 
and healthy foods. Also, they provide 
students an alternative to the dining 
facilities around campus.
Poe said that quite a few college 
students are frequent customers. Its 
hard to readily characterize the dif
ferent types of people that shop here. 
Theyre from all different walks of 
life, he said.
Shopping around for different kinds 
of food promises to be interesting as well 
as tasty. There are a number of conven
tional and unconventional food stores in 
the area just waiting to be sampled. 
Shopping to eat does not have to be a 
chore; make it an experience.Shadyside Natural Foods, on Baum Boulevard, sells fresh organic grains.
Quirky businesses 
define neighborhood
By RHYS CONLON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Most of my past experiences 
in Squirrel Hill had brought 
me to chains  Brueggers, 
Boston Market, Giant Eagle. 
But, there are other establish
ments which separate this 
area from other Pittsburgh 
neighborhoods. When I looked 
pa^t all the familiar signs, I 
foijnd some unique spots that 
ar maybe just a bit quirky.
^ three-foot cardboard cutoujt of Luciano Pavarotti 
greets everyone who walks 
through the entryway of 
Jerrys Records in Squirrel 
Hill. The hallway is bare 
aside from the signs, which 
directed me towards the
one CD in sight.
Were a music lovers 
store, said owner Jerry We
ber. Jerrys is unusual in 
that after 18 years, it con
tinues to sell only vinyl, with 
the odd exception. See that 
Elvis album on the wall? 
Thats $100. Ill wait for a 
collector to buy it. But I dont 
really consider most records 
to be collected. Youre sup
posed to listen to them.
Continuing my trek 
through the area, I passed a 
wide range of restaurants, 
bagel shops, and delis. Its 
easy to overlook some of the 
defining features of this 
neighborhood: many Kosher 
markets and stores catering 
to the large Jewish populaKnown as the Squirrel Cage, this bar is a favorite haunt.
plethora of vinyl. After spend
ing time in the store, I real
ized that this was not in any 
W4y a typical 90s music store 
nor was it a typical 90s used 
music store. There was not
tion, a coffee shop named 
after after the 61C bus route, 
and of course, squirrels. The 
Squirrel Hill Cafe, a local 
haunt, is commonly known 
Please see HILL, page L15
Web shopping offers convenience for some
By STEPHEN HSU
Tartan Contributing Editor
Everyone is buying from the 
Web these days - anything 
from automobiles to zucchini. 
The whole concept of online 
shopping has evolved from 
simple, secure, computer-related product Web sites to highly 
informative virtual shopping 
malls. Today, an in
dividual can pur
chase a book, com
puter, music equip
ment, or even food 
online. This kind of 
shopping has elimi
nated the retailerconsumer relation
ship. For some, more 
and more often, the 
answer to Where do 
you get it? is often 
followed with the 
phrase dot-com.
But not everyone in 
the CMU commu
nity, an Internetsawy environment, 
feels that Web malls 
are not worth all the 
attention. Many log 
onto Amazon.com for their 
books, Dell.com for computers, 
Stewmac.com for music, and 
Peapod.com for food. This quar
tet of sites reflects some of the 
largest and oldest online shop
ping sites in existence.
Many sites are becoming wellestablished as commercial pow
erhouses, some of which get 
nearly half a million hits a day. 
Amazon Books, founded in July 
1995, gets close to 300,000 hits a 
day, while Dell, who started its 
online site in July of 1996, gets 
approximately400,000 hits a day.
As with many other Internet 
amenities, convenience and a 
different type of customer ser
vice drive people to use their 
computer to shop.
Customers value quick and 
easy access to products. They 
enjoy shopping at their leisure, 
said Scott Eckert, director of
Dell Online in an interview with 
Fast Company magazine. And 
they want information  lots of 
information. The Web gives 
them all of that. The Webs real 
power is that it helps customers 
help themselves.
For students, the appeal is 
accessibility. Many use online 
shopping as a way to buy what
ask for a certain book, they 
[bookstore employees] look at 
me like Im crazy. You get to 
view more choices online. 
Randy Woyicki, a senior in
dustrial management and in
formation and decision systems 
major, had a very different opin
ion on shopping via the Web. 
Woyicki has only used the Web
auction sites. Instead, they ar^ =; 
small Web sites that offer thos^ \ 
specialty and hard-to-fin4 ^ 
items. One example is J-mall,. 
site specialized for saving th^ 1 
earth and selling no-chemicaj 
organic foods and environmentfriendly products. Another 
small site that offers hardto= ; 
find items is Artitude.com: t
C L I C K HERE T,0 S A V,E
add to order
the preferred Mfd of :
THEuntone Auchan
they want when theres no other 
way to get it.
I have no car, and the music 
stores are so far away, said se
nior electrical and computer engineeringmajorNikAzam. Buy
ing from Stewmac.com is more 
convenient. Its also cheaper be
cause of their lower overhead.
Although it seems that buy
ing online is due to not having 
the transportation to get to the 
stores, this not always the case. 
Patrick Nelson, a senior com
puter science major, stated that 
he bought a book from the Web 
and that he received good if not 
better customer service when 
compared to more conventional 
bookstores.
I have no problems with 
Amazon, said Nelson. Its 
easier going to Amazon than 
going to the bookstore. Every 
time I go into a bookstore and
once to buy a Dell computer. He 
bought from Dell because they 
allowed him to custom build his 
computer through the Web site.
Im a college student and 
dont make many big purchases, 
just small purchases, said 
Woyicki. For the big stuff, I 
like to see it, try the item out, 
and most importantly, buy from 
a dealer I can trust.
Not all the online shopping 
malls are one-product oriented. 
There are also the auction Web 
sites. Sites like Onsale.com and 
Ebay.com offer the Web shop
per opportunities to find differ
ent things ranging from a hi-fi 
stereo for $50, to a rare mint 
condition 1952 Mickey Mantle 
baseball card. Both these sites 
get over 250,000 hits a day. But 
there are many other sites that 
do not get the same number of 
hits as Amazon, Dell, and the
whi'ifi,ei(jnsoD9iff^a,6fyj 1
chandise ranging from clothes f 
to toys.
People like Woyicki are whai\ 
motivate Dell and Amazon to \ 
constantly change and upgrade ; 
their respective Web sites. Since ; 
their inceptions, Amazon and; 
Dell have made many changes * 
and have added several new; 
options, making it easier to shop 
attheri web sites. Unlike booki J 
stores and traditional computer ; 
stores, Amazon and Dell make * 
frequent changes and addition^ * 
to the way they sell.
But these well-established - 
companies are not the only op: 
tions for shopping on the Web; 
For some, shopping at home of-:  
fers less choice and less chancy 
to study the product. But fo 
others, the chance to find that 
rare book and avoid malls and 
shops is definitely preferable.

---------------------------------------------------

Mellon
Your 
Opportunity 
To Recognize 
The Very Best
Undergraduate Academic 
Advising Award for Outstanding 
Contributions in Academic 
Advising and Mentoring
Recognising outstanding contributions in 
helping undergraduates and graduates 
to define and achieve their academic goals.
Robert E. Doherty Award 
for Sustained Contributions 
to Excellence in Education
Recognising contributions to the 
development, implementation and evaluation 
of education programs at all levels, and 
to the creation and maintenance of 
an environment that fosters 
excellence in education.
William H. and Francis S.
Ryan Award for 
Meritorious Teaching
Recognising excellence in teaching in 
several dimensions, including outstanding 
classroom teaching, creation of challenging 
and innovative courses, creation or use of new I 
and innovative teaching methods and course 
.materials, effective supervision of 
undergraduate research or creative projects, 
and effective supervision of undergraduate 
honors students.
For Nomination Guidelines Contact: The Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence at x8-2896, 
or The Office of the Associate Provost for Academic Projects at x8-6995, or visit our web site at: 
www.cmu.edu/provost/teaching/ center.hmil
a
Nomination Deadline: November 9,1998
Kinko's has everything 
you need to make the grade.
is m
LTURAt, PATT&IN STUOIS
Rely on Kinko's wide selection of products and services not only to 
help you make the grade, but get the grade you deserve. Add the 
finishing touches to your project by taking advantage of these great 
offers. Kinko's is here to help make your life easier.
89* color copies m
Receive 8%" x 11" full or self-serve, full color 
copies for just 89 each. Resizing costs extra.
PITTSBURGH
3710 Forbes  687-2752
kinko's
Offer is limited to one coupon pet easterner. Coupon must be presented at time of 
purchase may not be reproduced and c not valid with other coupons, offers or 
discount programs. Offer valid at time tf purchase and may not be discounted or 
credited towards past or future purchases. Valid at Kinkos listed location only. 
Coupon void where prohibited or restricted by law. No cash value.
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I
AAC596EXP 12/31/98
4* black & white copies
Receive 8V2" x 11" full or self-sen, black & white 
copies on 20lh white bond for just 4<t each.
PITTSBURGH
3710 Forbes  687-2752
kinko's*
Offer k limited-to one coupon per customer. Coupon must be presented at time of 
purchase, may not be reproduced and is not valid with other coupons, offers or 
discount programs. Offer valid at time of purchase and may not be discounted or 
credited towards past or future purchases. Valid at Kinko's listed location only. 
Coupon void where prohibited or restricted by law. No cash value.
EXP 12/31/98
Most locations open 24 hours, 7 days a week. More than 900 locations worldwide.
For more information visit our web site at www.kinkos.com or call 1-800-2-KIN KOS.
**1998 Kinko's, Inc. AU rights reserved. Kinko's is a registered trademark of Kinko's Ventures, Inc. and is used by permission. 
Kinko's requires written permission from the copyright holder in order to reproduce any copyrighted work.
L12 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998
jShow poses questions 
of identity, characterGraphic film recreates history
 1998 Touchstone
Jonthan Demmes Beloved features Danny Glover and Oprah Winfrey as freed slaves.
By ELAINE BOLAND
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Jonathan Demmes Beloved, based 
on the novel by Toni Morrison, is both 
a deeply touching story of the tragic 
life of a former slave and a haunting 
tale of an overly possessive ghost.
Oprah Winfrey gives an achingly 
sincere performance as Sethe, a former 
slave who, determined never to be 
brought back into bondage, kills her 
daughter as bounty hunters come to 
reclaim her and her family. After Sethe 
and her other daughter, Denver (Kim
berly Elise), endure years of violent 
outbursts of flying tables and chairs 
and shaking rooms by the ghost of the 
dead daughter, Sethes lover Paul D. 
(Danny Glover) moves in with the two 
and casts the spirit out of the house. 
However, by some paranormal miracle, 
the ghost, named Beloved, is reborn, 
rises out of a nearby swamp as a hu
man, and comes to terrorize the family 
in human form.
Than die Newton gives a stellar per
formance as the ghoulish incarnation
of Beloved. Her movements are won
derfully executed to give the impres
sion that she is far from human, and 
her facility in facial expressions cre
ates a freakish mix of angelic child and
bitter demon. Her voice is supematurally eerie in both its high pitched, inno
cent pleas and its scratchy, guttural 
croaks. She appears like a possessed 
porcelain doll whose innocent features 
oddly contribute 
to her monstros
ity.
Glover and 
Winfrey work 
wonderfully to
gether and speak 
much of their 
roles through 
pained glances 
and exaggerated 
stares. Glover 
provides nearly 
all of the fleeting 
comic relief, and 
while be has 
lived a harsh life, 
he is one of the 
only true light
hearted charac
ters in the film. 
Unlike many 
films based upon literature, this version 
of Morrisons Beloved closely adheres to 
the text. The film is an apt interpreta
tion of the horrors of slavery and in no 
way does it attempt to gloss over the
heinous tortures endured by Afnciaifi 
Americans in bondage.
Offbeat camera angles put the view
ers in the characters place and givie 
them the sense that they are involved $1 
the tormenting events, namely one f 
the opening scenes where Sethe is being 
sexually molested in the middle of a 
crowded barn. Many scenes are of;ati 
extremely graphic nature, which, in its 
queasy effect, realistically recreates Che 
life of an African American during and 
after the Civil War. Scenes of hangings, 
childbirth, and rape most certainly mak,e 
the audience uneasy, and they are key 
elements to the films authenticity. ^
Hollywoods typical glamorization'of 
horrific events is absent in this picture, 
as a new trend of brutally honest films 
such as Saving Private Ryan seems tobe 
gaining in popularity among American 
filmmakers. Although some scenes 'Ml 
short of their intended effects, the movie 
on the whole is heavy on impact and light 
on glamorization. The score fits well wjih 
the movement of the plot, and other ele
ments such as costumes and lighting 
create a somber mood to match that of the 
story line. This film is not for the faint1 of 
heart, but for those who dont mind 
graphic imagery and brutal honesty, Be
loved is a work of excellent filmmaking.
Kimberly Elise (L), and Thandie Newman (far R) star in Beloved.
a criminal, while in others, you find 
them very innocent. The piece begs the 
question: Could a person be judged by 
his or her portrait?
There is also a series of eight portraits, 
untitled, also by Arne Sevenson, which 
depicts a range of men, young to old. The 
series starts with young men on either 
side, and the middle subjects both wear 
glasses. Sevenson gives the impression 
of aging, without being able to tell the 
feelings or personality of each person.
KillingFields Photographs, by Nhem 
Kin and Associates, is a series of por
traits of Asian people who are being held, 
expecting to be killed in a massacre. The 
description does not include details of 
where theyre being held, or reasons for 
their captivity. The expressions on their 
faces show that some accept death with 
pride. Others are very frightened or look 
innocent. There are also some children, 
who look like they dont know what is 
going on or what these pictures are for.
Deborah Kass has continued Andy 
Warhols series of 13 paintings of Ameri
can Most Wanted.
Screen Tests 1963-1965 is a movie by 
Andy Warhol, which films the portrait of 
many people such as Dennis Hopper, 
Bruce Rado, Tony Towle, Dennis Deegan, 
and many more. Some of the characters 
stare-at the camera. Some of them smile 
or laugh while others dont move.
The exhibit also has an interactive 
component. Visitors can use a Smith & 
Wesson identity kit, used by police de
tectives, to make a profile of a suspect, or 
6f a citizen. Blank cards with the head
ing Identify Yourself  are left with pen
cils for viewers to fill out. This multime
dia part of the exhibit allows visitors to 
consider their own identity first-hand.
Portraits of criminals, or of innocent 
people, do they reflect the persons per
sonality? Does the persons face indicate 
what that person has been through? 
This exhibit effectively posed the ques
tion of identity. The portraiture might' 
be sufficient narrative to reflect what 
the person has become, but not who he or 
she once was.
By BEHNAM FARAPOUR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
_f Artists of the day are using portrait 
photography more and more often as a 
Jtyrm of narrative art. One example of 
t^iis narrative is the latest ^exhibition at 
|}iie Andy Warhol Museum JnYo ur Face, 
^hich is a collection of portrait photo
graphs by various artists. The show ar
gues that while portraits convey the
This is one example of the identities 
created in the exhibit In Your Face.
persons identity and personality, they 
lant convey the persons past.
At the entrance, questions are posed to 
the viewer: Can you judge a book by its 
gover? or Can you tell a portrait of good 
and evil? The exhibit consisted of por
trait photographs by various artists. The 
photographs were of various types of 
people, including late 19th century pris
oners, bullfighters, and some silk screen 
paintings by contemporary artists in
spired by Andy Warhols Most Wanted.
Prisoners, by Arne Sevenson, is a 
gollection of portraits of late 19th cen
tury prisoners. There are two portrai
tures from each prisoner, a full face and 
g. profile, with their names and charges 
jvritten on the picture. Most of them are 
jyearing hats, and have a vicious stare, 
which provokes the viewer to make a 
judgement on the character of the sublect. In some, you can tell the person was

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998L13
Play raises questions of 
ecclesiastical authority
By ROSIE JONES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
|! Steven Dietzs play Silence, based on the 
tbvel by Shusaku Endo, examines the rela
tionship between authority, faith, and comlassion, in the context of a conflict between 
Jesuit priests hoping to convert Japanese 
people in 1637 and the ruling Samurai 
class. This play was performed at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh last Tuesday.
_________________________
, , courtesy University of Pittsburgh
Rodrigues finds a Christian icon in Silence.
At the plays opening we meet the lead 
character, Rodrigues (Lee E. Ernst) who 
i;s a Portuguese Jesuit priest. He hopes 
to spread Christianity to the people of 
Japan. His teacher, Ferreira (Peter 
Silbert), is already in Japan with the 
same ideals. The play is spoken in a 
mixture of Japanese and English, with 
English representing the Portuguese 
spoken by the priests. This mixture of 
langauges gives us a sense of the foreignness of the priests in Japan.
'As Rodrigues and his fellow Jesuit, 
Garrpe (Torrey Hanson), arrive in China 
from where they hope to take a boat to 
Japan, they are informed that mass ex
ecutions of Christian converts are taking 
place in Japan. Any Christian refusing to 
reject his faith is tortured and killed. This 
rejection of the faith is symbolized by 
trampling or spitting on an image of Christ 
(a fumie). Devastatingly for Rodrigues, he 
learns that his teacher and hero Ferreira
has also given up the faith. Rodrigues and 
Garrpe take a boat to Japan.
In Japan, Rodrigues ministers to Chris
tian peasants. He aids them in creating 
secret Christian symbols, such as a pair 
of scissors which, when closed, leave a 
cross in the gap between the blades. The 
very peasants he ministers to risk death 
if their practices are discovered. From his 
hiding spot in a hut, Rodrigues counsels 
them on what to do if they are asked to 
spit on a fumie. Each death is a stone 
which builds the foundation of the Chris
tian church, he ministers.
This first half of the play drags. 
Kichijiros incoherent bouts of confes
sion and betrayal are inexplicable, al
though extremely well-played. We are 
also left unconvinced of the value of 
Christianity to the peasants, who while 
earnest, fail to convince us that they feel 
anything more spiritual than doggish 
devotion. Rodrigues devotion to his 
teacher is also more amusingly earnest 
than passionate.
One scene suggests an analysis of the 
underlying morality of religion. Rodrigues 
is forced to flee to a distant island to 
escape persecution. On this island, lie 
deplores the silence of his God, who al
lows martyrs to die. What is the point if 
there is no God? he cries. The question is 
posed: How do a churchs actions hold up 
in the absence of its beliefs?
In the second half of the play, circum
stances turn to a gravity which the actors 
are superbly equipped to convey. The 
peasant Monica (Shinobu Sato) is dis
turbingly joyous that her baby has died 
and is now closer to Jesus and a wonder
fully beatific martyr as she is executed.
Ultimately Rodrigues must betray his 
church to save the Christian peasants 
from torture. As long as you fear the 
church, you will never serve the Lord, 
Ferreira tells him. Rodrigues is asked to 
work to identify the very secret Christian 
symbols he helped create. The scissors 
reemerge in a box of Christian icons, 
suggesting that Rodrigues has learned to 
distinguish between defending the 
church, and keeping his faith alive.
Ensemble performs with energy
By ELAINE BOLAND
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
gave a stellar performance in its Home
coming concert Saturday afternoon in 
Rangos Hall. Playing to a room almost 
filled to capacity, the Philharmonic, 
conducted by Juan Pablo Izquierdo, 
possessed copious amounts of energy 
and played with marvelous facility.
The orchestra devoted the first half of 
the program to Beethoven, delivering a 
passionate performance ofhis third sym
phony in E-flat major, Eroica. Divided 
into four movements, the Eroica pro
vided the perfect medium for the orches
tra to demonstrate stark contrasts in 
dynamic, mood, and tempo. The heroic 
design intended in the composition of 
the piece shone through in the first 
movement, the Allegro Con Brio. The 
horns provided a beautiful, resonant 
sound in the beginning of the piece, and 
the repeated marcato chords in the 
strings added to the proud mood. Fre
quent changes in dynamic added an 
element of mystery to the movement, as 
the fortes often caught the listener un
aware. The orchestra was able to com
bine well-rounded tones and energy,
creating heated, marcato phrases that 
come across as lightning bolts.
The next movements, the Marcia 
Funebre and the Scherzo and Trio con
trasted wonderfully as the orchestra 
moved from slow, funeral-like passages 
in the Funebre, to quick, airy phrases in 
the Scherzo. The Funebres calm begin
ning and the soft entrance of low bass 
tones gave way to a somber oboe solo 
that captured the mood of the move
ment. The basses gave the impression of 
a slow-moving funeral procession, help
ing draw the movement to a close with 
strong, rhythmic bowing.
The orchestra demonstrated their skill 
in the Scherzo with light, quick tempos 
and sudden fortissimos. The orchestra 
held together nicely despite the fast mov
ing tempo, while the percussion helped 
lead the movement to an energetic finish.
The fourth movement, the Finale, com
menced with a whirlwind-like entrance 
and moved quickly into a tip toe pizzicato 
in the strings. Frequent brief retards 
created a nice flow, and the strong bass 
line firmly anchored the light, airy winds 
on top of it. The rhythmic motion fre
quently contrasted with sweet wood
winds, with a blend of oboe and clarinet. 
The presto finish was breathtaking as
strong technical precision was not lost 
inside a whirling tempo.
In the second half, the orchestra per
formed selections from George Bizets 
famous Carmen and the Final Dance 
from Manuel de Fallas The Three Cor
nered Hat. The first selection from 
Carmen, Les Toreadors, although a bit 
under tempo, was nevertheless lively, 
and the orchestra created a strong sound 
upon the entrance of the torreador 
theme, especially in the violas and cel
los. The violins beautifully captured the 
character of Carmen in the Habanera, 
and the music seemed to strut much 
like her character does on stage.
The Final Dance moved extremely 
fast, with strong French Horns and ur
gent strings contributing to the hectic 
mood. Suspended cymbals helped create a 
sort of fantastical air about the piece, with 
quick passages in the strings giving the 
impression of flight. The use of percussion 
added to the urgency of the piece, and low 
horns and rolling cymbals created a ma-j 
jestic mood towards the end of the work.
Maestro Izquierdo was no doubt a cen
tral element to the overflow of energy 
throughout the program. Overall, the Phil: 
harmonic gave a wonderful performance, 
well deserving of its standing ovation.
Student conductor forms classical group
By STEPHEN GORBOS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Todd Sullivan wanted to give CMU 
musicians a new performance outlet. 
As a senior music major, he knows that 
in the traditional performances, stu
dents dont always get the chance to 
play the pieces that interest them most. 
Sullivan wanted to create an opportu
nity for students to pick the music, run 
the rehearsals, and perform on their 
own. The result of his effort is the 
Virtuosi, a group of music students 
which formed last spring. Since then, 
under Sullivans baton, the group has 
been rehearsing and performing, most 
recently on last Friday. And, as any 
newly formed group, these perfor
mances are filled with ups and downs.
The three things that students really 
love about this group is that a lot of the 
wind players, who otherwise might not 
get the opportunity to, can be soloists 
and play in an orchestra, said Sullivan. 
We can cover a lot of the classical reper
toire, and we can get together readings 
of almost any work a student would like 
to play through.
As far as programming for concerts, 
Sullivan takes suggestions from mem
bers of the group, then picks the more 
feasible works.
Our main criteria for picking works is 
instrumentation and difficulty, said 
Sullivan. The repertoire here is more 
classical and early romantic chamber 
music that you dont normally get to 
hear. The possibilities for what can be 
done are really unlimited
One such example was the recording of a 
film score for a student film here on campus 
last year, a practice they intend to con
tinue. So far this semester their focus has 
been preparing for upcoming concerts.
The concert last Friday was their 
fourth and was particularly important 
to Sullivan and the group because it was 
their first public concert, an important 
step in tradition-building.
[Werel trying to build an audience 
for the Virtuosi, said Sullivan.
This weekends program was definitely 
the start of something continuous. The 
group played to a packed audience in 
Alumni Concert Hall. On the program 
was Verdis I Vespri Siciliani, 
Schumanns Piano Concerto in A Minor 
with Walter Morales as soloist, and 
Mendelssohns Fourth Symphony.
ith ello
INFORMATION SESSION 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27
7:00 PM
WEAN HALL, ROOM 7500
INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28
7:00 PM
SCAIFE HALL, ROOM 125
WE WANTED TO GET A HEAD START 
ON INTRODUCING OURSELVES AT 
THE INFORMATION SESSION.
Trilogy was founded by five college students in 1989. Today the company has grown to more than 
500 employees by hiring graduates from the best schools in the country. We're revolutionizing the 
way products are bought and sold for Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Chrysler, 
Boeing, AT&T and Ernest and Julio Gallo.
We are looking for top candidates to join our re-engineering revolution. Candidates should be 
extremely aggressive and creative. Strong communication and presentation skills are required along 
with the desire for continuous development. We are looking for bright and talented people with var
ied backgrounds. Only the best need apply. For more information, check out our website at www.trilogy.com.
For more information about Trilogy or this event, please contact tanna.oldfield@trilogy.com or call 
directly at 512.685.3801.
TRILOGY
6034 West Courtyard Drive 
Austin, Texas 78730 USA
t 512.425.3400 
/ 512.685.3960 
e recruiting@trilogy.com
www.trilogy.com/recrniting
Tlitogy I in quii opportunity mploytf

---------------------------------------------------

Werd like your theory to 
meet our P&L.
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P., a global investment bank, started in 1988 
with seven employees, an initial investment of $28 million, and a 
plan for applying quantitative and computational techniques to the 
securities business. Today, the D. E. Shaw group encompasses about 
a dozen closely related entities with a staff of over a thousand and 
aggregate capital of $1.7 billion. But the core of our business remains 
the same: sophisticated algorithms that move hundreds of billions 
of dollars a year.
Understandably, we put a premium on mathematical and analytical 
skills. But we also want creative, pragmatic, articulate people who 
arent afraid to implementand managewhat they invent. (In fact, 
our firm is largely run by the people who designed our strategies 
and systems.) Our staff includes tenured professors, Putnam Prize
winners, and Math Olympiad champions, and we compensate 
exceptional people exceptionally well.
To be considered for an on-campus interview, please sign up online 
by October 28.
Broker-dealer activity off). E. Shaw & Co., L.P. is conducted in the United Stares through D. P.. Shaw Securities, L.P., 
D. /:. Shaw Investments, I..P., or ParSight Financial Services, LP., which are registered as broker-dealers with the 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission and are members of the National Association of Securities 
Dealers, Inc.
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. does not discriminate, in matters of hiring or promotion, on the basis of race, color, religion, 
gender, national origin, age. military service eligibility, veteran status, sexual orientation, marital status, or disability.
www.deshaw.com 
oncampus@recruit.nyc.deshaw.comDE Shaw & Co

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 October 1998L15
DH 2210
-n M ' i  imn
movies you may have seen before.,
EMILY LANDES
Thursday, August 22
Underground
Its very rare that a film can be placed in the war/ 
humor genre. In fact, I was unaware that such a genre 
even existed. Where would I look for it at Blockbuster? 
And what is it anyway, a tragedy or a comedy? In the 
case of this film, I can honestly say its both. It starts off 
in Yugoslavia during WWII, where Blackie and Marko 
are running a fairly successful business stealing guns 
from the Germans. But after Blackie shoots a German 
soldier and is forced to live in his grandfathers cellar 
with a group of refugees, that business pretty much 
goes kaput. So Blackie and the refugees start making 
their own guns down in the cellar instead. This goes 
pretty well for about 30 years, with Marko getting 
richer, mainly because he doesnt tell his faithful 
workers that the war has ended.
At 7:30, 10pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, October 23
La Femme Nikita
Suppose you are a cute but ruthless street chick 
who is found guilty of killing a cop and sentenced to 
death. Youre in the chair, when this guy comes in 
and tells you that he can save your life. He can also 
set you up with a great apartment, unlimited cash, 
and awesome clothes. The only provision? You have 
to be a secret killer for the government. Dont feel 
guilty, Id say yes, too. But then what would you do 
if after youve agreed you happen to fall for a cute 
guy who doesnt know your true identity? Oh, and 
for some odd reason the government keeps insist
ing that you wear Lycra. Lots and lots of Lycra. I 
dont know about you, but Im starting to rethink 
my original decision.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, October 24
Les Miserables
This may come as a surprise to some of you, but Les 
Miserables isnt just a musical. I know, I know, I was 
shocked too. But actually, its also a beautifully ren
dered Victor Hugo novel about the struggle to control 
your own destiny. Its also well over 1400 pages which 
may be the reason its more popular with lyrics. Im 
going to assume that all of you are as ecological as I am 
and could never stomach reading abookknowingthat 
it probably uses up an entire Redwood. So, I wont 
bother comparing the movie to the book. I will how
ever, in a postmodern twist, compare it to the musical. 
As far as similarities go, the film still tells the story of 
JeanValjeanashe tries to make a life for himself and 
raise his adopted daughter, Cosette. The only prob
lem is that even though all he did was steal a loaf of 
bread , police officer Javert cant get over it and has 
made it his lifes work to catch Valj ean and return him 
to prison. However, it differs from the musical in that 
thankfully it does not include any mentions of castles 
on clouds, and best of all, characters that break into 
song.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, October 25
The Pink Panther
How does one describe a character like Inspector 
Clouseau? To me, hes like Inspector Gadget, just 
with out the gadgets... or Penny... or Brain. You can 
imagine then, how well he fares in this film where 
hes in hot pursuit of a high society thief who is out 
to steal the Pink Panther diamond. In his way are 
V! British playboy Sir Charles Lytton, Lyttons nephew 
George, who is trying to follow in his philandering 
footsteps, and even Clouseaus own wife, who is 
sleeping with Charles. But even with all of these 
obstacles, Clouseau always gets his man.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy___________________________________
9 Critical Corner"ir Use as frisbee
Cyir Less than average 
Buy it used
>T wlrir Recommended;
Own this !
Firewater
The Ponzi Scheme -- Cherry/Universal
deserving for an album closer.
The Ponzi Scheme is one of those discs 
thats listenable, but dont expect much in 
the line of originality.  ROB JEFFERSON
Firewater brings forth a lot of potential for 
originality on The Ponzi Scheme. With Duane 
Denison of Jesus Lizard on guitar, supplanted 
by string and winds sections and a piano, 
theres the expectation of a lot of original 
synergies of noise and melody. Unfortunately, 
this disc screams to the listener, Youve 
heard this before!
Probably the easiest way to describe it is 
a less-talented version of the Pogues, with
The Queers
Punk Rock Confidential - Hopeless Records
Tod A. as a tired Shane MacGowan. Occa
sionally, songs such as Isle of Dogs, with 
its Celtic strains, work under this descrip
tion. Further, I Still Love You, Judas is 
a wonderfully melancholy slow burner of a 
song that befits Tods voice. However, these 
moments are few and far between; Ponzis 
Theme is reminiscent of every theme from 
spy movies ever made, So Long, Super
man sounds too much like Soft Cells 
Tainted Love for comfort, and 
Drunkards Lament, while a competent 
effort, doesnt have a feeling of finality
Writer complains 
about 'chick flick
With a few lineup changes and approxi
mately 23 releases, without including compi
lations, under their belt, The Queers are 
back with a new record. These renowned 
veteran punkers are still at it and bringing 
the world more fun music.
As always, The Queers sound a great deal 
like Screeching Weasel.The problem with 
this release is that there are not enough fast 
tracks like the latest Screeching Weasel al
bum, Television City Dream. Even Joe 
Queers voice sounds like the singer from 
that band, Ben Weasel, and both their pseud
onym names have to do with their respective 
band names. Its the late 90s and the Queers 
are still bringing us pop punk goodness. 
However, for something so similar, Screech
ing Weasel has come up with a better record 
because of the tempo changes. The Queers 
songs become stagnant  they all seem to be 
played at the same pace. Try the albumDont 
Look Back, for example, if you are looking for 
a great album by these fellows.
- CLIFF CHIEN
Jims Big Ego
Don't Get SmartEastern Front Records
Described as modern American pop, 
Jims Big Ego has a musical style that is
strongly reminiscent of other modern poj) 
bands such as Barenaked Ladies and Dav0 
Matthews Band. In Dont Get Smart, their 
third album, JBE has produced a unique 
blend of musically and lyrically interest
ing content.
Dont Get Smart incorporates a wide;, 
wildly funny range of songs, from love bal;-
JIMS BIG EGO
lads and fairy tales to social commentary. 
The lo-fi, folksy acoustic guitar, and bas;s 
provide a cheery background for the albums 
wacky vocals and keep the songs moving 
along in their happy, upbeat way, but donjt 
provide enough variety to make the CD 
truly endearing.
While every song is strong and a good listen 
in its way, the CD proves to be a repetitive 
experience musically. The style of Jims Big 
Ego sounds enough like the pop bands its 
compared to that it loses some of its original
ity. If youre into the unique, but increasingly 
imitated genre that bands like Barenaked 
Ladies ascribe to, youll enjoy this album. 
However, as catchy as the songs are, the 
sound gets old quickly.
- DEREK GREENTREEJ
By ROB CULLEN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In Practical Magic, Sandra Bul
lock and Nicole Kidman play a 
pair of modern-day witch sisters 
who are searching for love. And 
yes, this is a chick-flick.
i
What: Practical Magic 
Director: Griffin Dunne 
Company: Touchstone
Bullock plays the more familyoriented sister, who marries, has 
two daughters, and searches for 
a normal life. Kidman is the re
bellious one, who moves away, 
and lives her life as a big party. 
They were both raised by their 
two aunts because their mother 
died, supposedly of a broken 
heart. The entire family is the 
victim of a curse, in which every 
man they fall in love with dies 
after a few years. The action 
comes when Kidmans boyfriend 
in the movie begins to abuse her.
There really wasnt much in 
this movie to appeal to guys. 
There are only three male char
acters in the movie, and one of 
them dies after five minutes, 
while another is a wife-beating, 
rapisttype. Even the soundtrack, 
had only one male performer. The 
entire movie is really about
women bonding. The sisters bond 
with each other, the sisters bond 
with the aunts, Bullock bonds 
with her two daughters, and the 
women of the small town bond 
with the witch family in an exor
cist-type deal. All of this is done 
with long, poignant emotional 
scenes, and sappy dialogue that 
will probably make most guys 
want to throw up. When movies 
have guys bonding, usually its 
accompanied by violent explo
sions and gunplay, and generally 
there is less hugging and crying.
However, the makers of the 
film probably dont really care 
what men think of this movie, in 
much the same way as the people 
who make Steven Segal and 
Jean-Claude Van Damme mov
ies could care less if a girl ever 
stepped into one of their movies. 
This movie is actually the oppo
site of one of those films, in that 
the few male characters are shal
low and one dimensional, as op
posed to the shallow, one-dimen
sional women of action movies. 
Your reaction to this movie is 
mainly determined by gender. 
As a guy I can only say that this 
movie was awful, filled with 
cheesy stereotypes and bad dia
logue, but Im sure a girl would 
get much more out of this that I, 
as a guy, am missing.
Stores give district 
unique atmosphere
HILL, from page Lll
as the Squirrel Cage. The 
Squirrel Cage has been in its 
same spot, on the corner of 
Forbes and Murray, for more 
than two decades.
Just down Murray Avenue
sells handcrafted goods from de
veloping countries: baskets, 
wooden boxes, handmade figu
rines. The store is in other cities 
around the US, and also in 
Canada. Even though a group in 
Pittsburgh has been working on
We sell crafts from all over the 
world, mostly developing countries: 
Perut India, Indonesia, the 
Philippines. 
 Luella Brazier; store volunteer
from Jerrys is Games Unlim
ited, which sits between a deli 
and a pizza place, and like many 
of the other stores in the area, 
has been there for years. This 
place specializes in board games 
and fantasy role playing games, 
which make up a large part of 
the business, according to owner 
Bob Schwartz, whos been in the 
game business for 19 years.
Unlike the many other stores 
in Squirrel Hill, Ten Thousand 
Villages, around the corner on 
Forbes, is just getting started 
in the neighborhood. Ten Thou
sand Villages, which will have 
its grand opening on October 
23, is a non-profit store which
the project for two years, the vol
unteers hope to be a part of ttie 
local community soon, and help 
struggling communities around 
the world.
We sell crafts from all over the 
world,mostly developing coun
tries: Peru, India, Indonesia, the 
Philippines, said Luella Brazier, 
a volunteer at Ten Thousand Vil
lages. With an income of $1200, 
we can support a family for a year.
Squirrel Hill boutiques add to 
the local atmosphere of tradition 
and peculiarities. Whether its a 
new collection of crafts, or a rare 
collection of vinyl, theres a store 
hidden away in Squirrel hill the 
probably sells it.
Dance performance employs postmodernism
By SARAAMODIO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Trisha Browns material is elegance ab
stracted. On October 10,1998, her company 
performed three shows at the Benedum. The 
first piece Canto/Pianto, dramatizes the 
fragile soul. Her solo piece, If You Couldnt 
See Me, is a pyschological portrait of emo
tion and strength. The last, Twelve Ton 
Rose, concentrates on a contemporary use 
of form. Each interpretation had a flavor 
that contributed to a rich course of events.
Canto/Pianto was danced to Monteverds 
LOrfeo. On stage, an enormous circle cut 
into the middle of black space. It appeared to 
bean blue-lit moon resting behind a grey and
purple mist. The dance depicts the dark, 
romantic narrative of Orpheus. Dancers ex
pressed the dialog between the messenger 
and Orpheus. Eurydice dies, and her final 
loss is beautifully depicted in the section 
called, Journey to the Underworld. 
Postmodernism is not about fuss or a strong 
connection to the audience, said Carolelinda 
Dickey, executive director of the Pittsburgh 
Dance Council. This disconnection between 
dancer and viewer was successful in the middle 
piece, If You Couldnt See Me. In this solo, 
Trisha Brown emphasizes her unawareness of 
the viewer, by creating a tense association. She 
dances the entire piece with her back to the 
audience, creating an emotional distance be
tween the herself and the viewer.
Later ,in Twelve Ton Rose, the dancers 
moved in synchronized shapes to the music of 
Anton Webern. This piece drew its form by 
incorporating a strict use of black and red 
along with a theme of triangular shapes. 
Each female costume had a string attached 
from one sleeve cuff to bottom end of their 
shirts. This created triangles when they moved 
up their arms. At the end of one scene, a male 
dancer stands in the back, cut by a triangular 
shadow. Later in the piece, the dancers re
peated the same series of movements to the 
chorus. The choreography showed Brown-s 
solid sense of composition.
The outcome of all the shows elements was 
a complete indulgence of Trisha Browns ef
fective, postmodern style.
Special Egg Donor Needed 
$25,000
We are a loving, infertile couple hoping to find a compassionate 
woman to help us have a baby. Were looking for a healthy, 
intelligent college student or college graduate, age 21-33, with 
blue eyes and blonde or light brown hair. Compensa
tion $25,000 plus expenses. Your give will bring 
boundless joy. Please contact us through our represen
tative at 1-800-776-7680
DO YOU SKIP OR MISS YOUR 
MENSTRUAL PERIODS?
ARE YOU CONCEHNED ABOUT YOUR OVERALL HEALTH OR INFERTILITY?
Researchers at Magee-Womons 
Hospital and the University of 
Pittsburgh are conducting a 
research study. They are testing 
a new treatment aimed at helping 
women who skip or miss their 
periods due to stress. You may 
be compensated up to S900 for 
your participation.
II you answer "yes to those 
questions, you may be able to
 Do you have fewer than 6 men
strual cycles or no cycles per 
year?
 Are you 18-38 years old?
Womon who have regular, 
monthly menstrual cycles are
also needed You may be com-1 
pensated up to S270 for your part 
ticipation.
For more information, please call^ 
641-1602 or email us by visiting; jf 
Magee-Womons Hospital web . t 
page: hllpJAvww.mageG.edu . ^ 
under Research at Magee, then-^ 
Participants (or Research Study' 
Needed. Our Research Nurse  + 
will contact you with details. ; +

---------------------------------------------------

CALENDAR
Underground gg :
will be playing at 7:30.10,pm, 
and 12:30 am on Thursday in ' 
McConomy Auditorium, R e
La Femme Nikita **
will be playing at 7:30.10 pm. m
and 12:30 am on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium. 
mLes Miserables
will be playing on Saturday *
at 7:30.10 pm. and 12:30 am g!
in McConomy Auditorium.
The Pink Panther g
will be playing at 7:30; 10 pm. i
and 12:30 am on Sunday in .-a
McConomy Auditorium.. a
Vengeance is Mine
will be playing at 8 pm on m
Thursday and Friday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
n
Nadja
will be playing at 8 pm-on 
Saturday and Sunday at the K9
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Everest WK
is playing in the Omnimax at _
the Carnegie Science Center 
each day at Ham,noon,2. SB
3.4, and 5 pm and also at 8 
and 10 pm on Friday and 
Saturday through December 10. fli
aFor up-to-date campus movie 
times, call X8-FLMS. fli
OCTOBER 23, 1998
Quick! How many molecules of a gas are fo 
in a volume of 22.41 L? 6.0221367E23. 
number is common knowledge actu 
thanks to Italian chemist Amadeo Avogac 
who came up with the principle that eqt 
volumes of gases at the same temperature 
and pressure contain the same number of moli 
cules regardless of their chemical nature and physical pro 
ties. It doesn't really matter if you haven't needed to use i-. _ 
gadro's number for a long time. It is still useful and applicable 
to everyday life. A mole of unpopped popcorn kernels spread 
across the United States would cover the country to a depth of 
over nine miles. If you were able to count atoms at the rate of 
10 million per second, it would take about 2 billion years to 
count the atoms in one mole. To celebrate activities such as 
these, National Mole Day was established to attract new people 
into counting popcorn kernels across the Heartland. People 
would not only have reason to count molecules, but they 
would also find new desire to explore the world of chemistry. 
Of course, chemistry isn't only for those who want to throw 
two reactants together and blow stuff up. People can also make' 
soap, create gobs of goo, and titrate stuff. And if that isn't 
enough for you, then you can count how many pieces of lint 
you can find in your pockets and belly button.
museums
on
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding freeroll practices each Satur
day and Sunday morning through Novem
ber 15. Tech and Frew Streets, as well as 
the portion of Schenley Drive surrounding 
Flagstaff Hill, will be closed from 6 to 9 
am on those mornings. Community mem
bers are asked to find alternate routes 
and parking around campus. Cars left in 
the metered areas at 6 am on those dates 
will be towed at the owners expense.
Mr. Fraternity, Kappa Alpha Thetas 
annual philanthropic event, will be held 
on November 6 at 7:30 pm in Rangos Hall. 
Come see 12 fraternity men compete in 
beachwear, togawear, and talent, as well 
as formalwear and interviews for the cov
eted crown. The event raises money for 
the Central Ohio Lung Association for the 
Karin Johnson Memorial Asthma 
Research Fund which will benefit greatly 
from this years 12th annual Mr. Frater
nity event. Tickets are $7 before the show 
and $8 at the door and will be on sale in 
the UC beginning October 26. For addi
tional information, contact Lindsey at 
\s4y@andrew. cmu.edu.
The French Table will take place every 
Wednesday evening from 5 to 6 pm in 
Skibo Coffeehouse. Everyone is invited to 
some and speak French with other people. 
For more information, contact the Depart
ment of Modern Languages or Professor 
Rockmore at rockmore@andrew.cmu.edu.
Kaffeestunde. Speak German with us! 
Join students and faculty for informal 
conversation in German at the Kaf
feestunde, on Tuesdays from 3:30 to 5 pm 
in Skibo Coffeehouse. People with all lev
els of speaking ability are welcome to 
attend. For more information, email Anne 
Green at amgreen@andrew.cmu.edu.
music
.4. New World. This program, including 
works by Davis, Mozart, and Dvork, will 
be performed on October 30 at 8 pm and 
November 1 at 2:30 pm. In addition, II 
Morte de Figaro, a Halloween mystery co
sponsored by the PSO and the Mystery 
Lovers Bookshop, will precede the Octo
ber 30 show at 6 pm. The mystery will be 
presented by the Mysteries Most Want
ed acting troupe. Tickets for the Hal
loween event are $50 and include tickets to 
the 8 pm concert. Regular tickets range 
from $15 to $69. Student rush tickets are 
also available for $10. For more informa
tion or tickets, call 392-4900.Millvale 
Industrial Theater hosts San Francisco 
songwriter Barbara Manning with locals 
Mystery Date and Viragos tonight for an 8 
pm, all ages show. On Tuesday, New Yorks 
Asian-American electrnica duo Spin-17 
headlines with locals Operation Re-Infor
mation and 666 Audio for an 8 pm, all-ages 
show. For additional information, call 422- 
8864.
Pittsburgh Symphony. The Symphony 
will help perk up your morning on October 
22 with its first of three shows for its Cof
fee Concert Series at 10:45 am. It will be 
followed with a complimentary continental 
breakfast. The show, featuring music by 
Bach, Beethoven, and Briiggen, will also 
be performed on Friday and Saturday. 
Shows begin at 8 pm on Fridays and Sat
urdays. For more information, call 392- 
4900.
River City Brass Band will be perform
ing An American Thanksgiving on Novem
ber 14 at 8 pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
The show will feature music written by the 
likes of John Philip Sousa, Henry Fillmore, and more. Also Pittsburgh City 
Councilman, Sala Udin, will narrate 
Aaron Coplands A Lincoln Portrait. For 
more information, call 322-7222.
Carnegie Mellon Concert Choir pre
sents a Salute to Gershwin tonight in 
McConomy Auditorium at 8 pm. For ticket 
information, call x8-2383.
Carnegie Mellon Contemporary 
Ensemble will play in the Alumni Concert 
Hall on Thursday at 8 pm.
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic will 
perform an international festival concert 
in Rangos Hall at 8 pm on Saturday.
Music on the Edge. Rachel Rudich, flute, 
and Eric Moe, piano, will perform works by 
Moe, Zahab, Rands, Chasalow, and others 
on October 27 at 8 pm in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium.
Francis Dunnery, a British singer/song
writer, brings his solo act to the Rosebud 
on Friday at 7:30 pm. Tickets are $10 in 
advance of the show and $12 the day of the 
event. For more information, call 261-2232.
Hewlett Gallery presents The Paintings 
of Valentin Lustig through Sunday. The 
exhibit, curated by Edith Balas, professor 
of art history, includes 11 paintings by 
Lustig, a Romanian-born painter, that 
display dreamlike places populated with 
realistic figures or imaginary figures 
inhabiting realistic places. In addition, 
Lustig will lecture on October 23 in 
McConomy Auditorium at 6 pm. Gallery 
hours are Monday through Friday from 
11:30 am to 5 pm and Saturday and Sun
day from 11:30 am to 4 pm. For addition
al information, call x8-3618.
In Your Face is an exhibit at the Andy 
Warhol Museum that will run through 
January 17. The exhibit explores the 
modes that artists have used to categorize 
behavioral types. The exhibit includes 
paintings from Warhols Most Wanted 
series of 1964, originally created for the 
1964 New York Worlds Fair. The museum 
is open on Wednesday and Sunday from
11 am tp 7 pm and Thursday through Sat
urday from 11 am to 8 pm. For more infor
mation, call Colleen Russell at 237-8338.
around
Pennsylvania Arts and Crafts Christ
mas Festival will take place this week
end from Friday through Sunday and on 
October 31 and November 1 at the 
Washingon Fairgrounds. There will be 
over 175 booths of artists, craftsmen, and 
food vendors from nine states displaying 
their finest holiday creations. Admission 
is $4:50 for adults, $1 for children. For 
more information, call (724)863-4577.
Roman CTtiholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Choral Compline will be performed in 
Heinz Chapel on the University of Pitts
burgh campus every Sunday evening at 
8:30 pm starting this Sunday. Dr. J. 
Richard Szeremany of East Liberty Pres
byterian Church will join the Pittsburgh 
Compline Choir in music for Prayer at the 
Close of the Day. For additional informa
tion, go to http://www.pitt.edu/~psalm/compline.html or call 682-6882.
The Pittsburgh Camerata will perform 
masses by Byrd, Victoria, Durufl, and 
Britten on Friday at 8 pm at St. Thomas 
Episocopal Church in Oakmont and on 
Saturday at St. Andrews Episcopal 
Church in Highland Park at 8 pm. Tickets 
run from $6 to $12. For more information, 
call 621-2880.
Hillel will be holding Jewish Encounters 
at 8:30 pm tonight. There will be a Shabbat dinner and services on Friday at 6 pm 
in the Kurtzman Room. Hillel will also be 
having a Hillel Horror Night Haunted 
House/Hayride on Sunday. For more 
information, call Mike at x2-2658.
art courtesy Academic American Encyclopedia
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers presents Professor Mike 
Rabins from Texas A&M University on 
October 22 in Hamerschlag B103 at 6:30 
pm. The session will be an interactive 
look at ethics and how they affect stu
dents and engineers. All students and fac
ulty are welcome. For more information, 
email samuelf@andrew.cmu.edu.
Kurt Vonnegut, best known for his novel 
Slaughterhouse Five, will offer his opin
ions on current events and discuss his 
writings at the Byham Theater on 
November 9 at 7:30 pm. Tickets are $7.50 
for students, $18 otherwise. To order tick
ets or for more information, contact the 
Three Rivers Lecture Series at 622-8866.
Managing Library Facilities to Avert 
Disaster. This workshop will take place 
on November 10 from 9 am to 12:30 pm in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. This program is 
being sponsored by Oakland Library Con
sortium. To register, or for more informa
tion, call x8-6622.
Jack Myers, author of six volumes of 
poetry including Blindsided, will speak in 
the McKenna Room on Wednesday at 8 
pm as part of the Adamson Visiting Writ
ers Series. For additional information, 
call X8-2850.
Valentin Lustig, the Romanian-born 
painter whose paintings are on display in 
the Hewlett Gallery, will speak about his 
works in McConomy Auditorium on Fri
day at 6 pm.
The Green Pharmacy: Major Medicinal 
Plants of Western Pennsylvania and the 
Amazon is the topic of a lecture by Dr. 
James Duke, one of Americas leading 
authorities on healing herbs, that will 
take place on October 28 at 7 pm in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Duke will be 
speaking about his research on herbs and 
medicinal plants and will explain how 
many of the plants and herbs in this 
region can lower blood pressure and cho
lesterol levels. He will also provide afford
able herbal therapies for everything from 
heart disease to mood swings to the com
mon cold. The lecture costs $5 for limited 
general seating and tickets are nonrefundable. For more information or to 
order advance tickets, call 622-3288.
theater
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents 
Caryl Churchhills Top Girls from Friday 
through October 31 at the Kresge The
atre. Bruce Wallace Hostetler will direct 
the performance. Top Girls tells the tale 
of Marlene, who has just been promoted 
to the position of chief executive at the 
Top Girls Employment Agency in London. 
To celebrate, Marlene hosts a fantasy din
ner with powerful women throughout his
tory. Performances start at 8 pm. There 
will also be a matinee on October 31 at 2 
pm. For more information, call the Drama 
box office at x8-2407.
Pittsburgh Opera will open its season 
Saturday night at 8 pm at the Benedum 
Center with Andrea Chenier, a story 
about a counterrevolutionary during the 
French Revolution. It will also be per
formed on October 27, 31, and November 
1. For tickets or additional information, 
call 456-6666.
UPCOMING DATES
National Make a 
Difference Day, 
October 24
Daylight Savings 
Ends, [set clocks back] 
October 25
Mother-in-Law Day, 
October 25
debby,
happy birthday, 
-ronny
Last Saturday night at the 
Squirrel Hill Theater, the 
9:50 pm showing of Practi
cal Magic had severe sound 
problems. Those who 
decided to leave the show 
after 10 minutes of deafen
ing sound interference 
were then told that they 
could not get their money 
back; they could only get 
readmittance passes. Man
ager Nick was very rude 
and said, "If you're going 
to yell at me, I'll yell back."
Everybody should call 
232-3013 and ask for Tere
sa, Manager Nick's boss. 
Tell her that Manager Nick 
is rude and everybody 
should get their moriey 
back if they want it.
Igor, 
Eat DIRT you foulmouthed slime slut. 
-Ivan
UltraFast Sorter
Toronto VEGANS!
voxpopuli
voice of the people
Advertise for free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event onor off-cami>us 
that has relevance to the campus community 
or human computers in general, feel free to 
email auyoung@cmu.edu or mail it to The Tar
tan, Box 17 in the Carnegie Mellon University 
Center by the Wednesday before the Sunday 
before the event.
tox Populi is a forum open to the entire 
campus community! To submit a vox. simply 
email it to auyoung@cmu.edu, send it |o The 
Tartan, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in 
the Vox Populi drop box on the ultra-quick Tar
tan Server.
There is never anything to say anymore,in 
this thing. I mean, I could go open up the 
door for the person that was banging so hard 
on it a couple of minutes ago, but I just dont 
feel like it because I have to finish typing up 
whatever else is going here because I think 
about .other stuff.
