February 3, 1972, Volume 72/Number 3
juIie
Marc Elliott Field
Last Tuesday future elementary school 
teacher Julie Nixon Eisenhower visited two 
schools in Pittsburgh. The Western Penn. 
School for Blind Children and the Washing
ton Education Center displayed for the Pres
idents daughter their innovative teaching 
techniques. Their main purpose in inviting 
Mrs. Eisenhower was for the publicity her 
visit would attract to their programs, and 
they got it. Forty members of the press 
turned out to cover the least newsworthy 
event of the year.
The Presidents daughter is in real life 
exactly the same way she appears on tele
vision and in the papers-sweet, quiet and 
very agreeable. Yet the one thing that most 
glimpses of her do not being out is her sincer
ity. It was the school administrators that 
tried to hustle her from one stop to another 
but Mrs. Eisenhower would have none of it. 
She vainly strove to stop and speak with all 
the children she met and really find out 
something about them. This was especially 
true in the school for the blind children.
The show that was put on for her was 
reminescent of a circus withall the children 
performing for her at each stop. All of this 
led up to press conference that was held at 
the end of her tour. She fielded the press 
questions with surprising intellegence yet 
her answers were no surprise to anyone. By 
remarkable coincidence her political views 
were the mirror image of her fathers.
On the question of bussing the demure 
young lady stated I dont think its help
ing. She went on to say, I think we all 
agree that de facto segregation must end, but 
I dont think that bussing improves the qual
ity of education. This was spoken in the 
light of her fathers renewed stance against 
compulsory bussing.
When asked her opinions of womens lib 
she told us, much to the general surprise, 
that she was deftnately in favor of it. How
ever, she felt that organizations such as the 
National Womens Political Caucus are too 
militant with their firm anti-male stance. 
Mrs. Eisenhower expressed the opinion that 
this would only turn men against womens 
hb instead of encouraging them to support 
it.
In a more political light, Julie announced 
that she will be active in her fathers cam
paign for re-election. When asked what the 
continued on pg. 12
smwnsaz
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, Richard King 
Mellon Professor of Computer Science and 
Psychology, spoke about campus unrest at 
the Alumni Associations Speakers Forum 
on Wednesday night, January 26. Dr. 
Simon used the historical perspective of 
the past few years to draw some conclu
sions about the causes and cures of campus 
unrest and the society it reflected.
In his opening statement, Dr. Simon 
reminicsed about the days of Kent State, 
comparing that uproar to the quiet disposi
tion of todays campus. The issues of stu
dent unrest, he stated, were civil rights, 
Vietnam, free speech, or any of the other 
causes of young people, but these-issues 
were not initiated by the students. Rather, 
these and many others were a product of 
adult society, already being hotly de
bated. The real issue which underlay all the 
disruption was the question of power 
Students wanted to control their own des
tinies.
A student revolution erupted, then, be
cause young people believed stringent 
measures were needed to change society, 
and they felt powerless to alter society 
through acceptable means. They became 
antagonistic toward the establishment 
and called it a sick society.
In his analysis of the establishments re
action to the extreme antagonism of 
youth, Dr. Simon used the example of ex
tended media coverage of the student re
volt to illustrate the willingness of many 
adults to accept the activist indictment of 
society. The credibility lent to the activist 
doctrine proved that the society itself 
was divided into two establishments.
Dr. Simon proceded to statistically de
fine and theoretically explain this split.
The part of society on the receiving end 
of the criticism tended to be scientists, pro
fessional managers, technicians and bus
inessmen, those trained in the ways of sci
ence and technology. Those critical of so
ciety and sympathetic to the activist view
point were people of the traditional train
ing in the liberal arts or humanities. The 
explanation offered to these statistical dif
ferences was that the scientific and techno
logical establishment endorse the direction 
of society, because they are people control
ling the direction. It was Dr. Simons thesis 
that those of the traditional humanistic 
training oppose this advance of society 
because they feel that they have no control 
over it. Hence, the liberally educated peo
ple tend to criticize society, as it inevitably 
seeks slavation through science.
The result in this rift of educational 
backround was two types of intelligensia. 
Dr. Simon reminded the audience that 75 
percent majority was mainly responsible 
for the campus unrest and that the human
ist intelligensia supported these students.
Even with a majority, however, the re
volution did not succed. According to Dr. 
Simon, this was attributable to the fact 
that the unrest was aimed at the present, 
with no solutions for the futurepurely ro
mantic. Students stopped attacking the 
continued on pg. 12
Blacks in a White Univ.
Jon Manon
Thursday Luncheon Forum, Dr. Norman 
Johnson presented his perceptions on the 
situation of Blacks in a White University. 
Dr. Johnson, eminently qualified to deal 
with this subject by his dual status as profes
sor in SUPA and as Director of CMU C-Map 
program, concluded that it is uneasy to be 
black in a predominantly white setting.
He suggested that entering black students 
often travel to the beat of a different 
drum than do the majority of the white 
students and the predominantly white facul
ty and administrative staff, and that this is 
frequently cause for friction and uneasiness. 
Significant interaction fails to take place and 
black students are left feeling unwelcomed. 
They develop consequent orientations of 
being closed mouth, non-trusting, vigilant, 
and suspicious of the white university com
munity. According to Dr. Johnson, such 
postures tend to diminish the human per
son, lessening the humanity of both black 
and white students concomitantly.
He proposed that the universitys white 
majority must cast itself in the role of host 
to the black student minority, because to 
treat the black students otherwise would be 
to ignore their different cultural roots and to 
deny the validity of the unique styles indi
genous to the black community. Being only 
recently admitted to CMU in any but infini
tesimal numbers, black students have little 
influence on the university environment and 
must of consequence be regarded as guests in 
that alien environment. Said Dr. Johnson, I 
(as a black man) cannot presume to be the 
host because I just got here.
The director of C-Map cited as glaring 
evidence of the white students disinterest in 
the black students plight the dearth of 
white students in the Wherret Room audien
ce. (there were fewer than ten white stu
dents in attendance). He admitted that A 
great deal of our non-caring and what we do 
is probably don...naively, but made it clear 
that this does not make the non-caring any 
more palatable. A black student confronting 
the white students aloofness will ask him
self, Why should I keep chasing something 
that doesnt want me in the first place? 
And having asked himself that question, will 
undoubtedly arrive at the very healthy 
conclusion that indeed he will not hence
forth chase the white students friendship, 
for to chase you is to deny my own 
humanity, and one thing that I will not do is 
to deny my own humanity.
Following Dr. Johnsons informal but 
lively presentation, responses were invited 
from the audience. There was some amount 
of uneasiness expressed about Dr. Johnsons 
approaching the black students relationship 
to the university in terms of a guest-host 
model. The C-Map director responded to 
these doubts about the models applicability 
by contending that were black students to 
be treated exactly as are the majority of 
white students, then an unhealthy confor
mity would be demanded of them.
One black student questioned the need to 
continued on pg. 12
The security division of Bell Telephone 
Company is investigating the fraudulent 
use of credit card numbers on college cam
puses in the Pittsburgh area. Although the 
officers who visited the TARTAN office as
sured the writer that there was little of this 
illegal activity on CMUs campus, they pro
vided the following information as to the 
possible consequences of such fraudulent 
activity. BEWARE!! The following is the 
Pennsylvania statute which is applicable:
Any person who, with the intent to 
defraud, uses or attempts to use or abets 
another in using for the purpose of obtain
ing credit, or for the acquisition of money, 
goods, or property, or services, including, 
but not limited to, telecommunications ser
vice or the transmission of a message, signal 
or other communication by telecommuni
cation or over telecommunications facili
ties, (i) a credit card which has not been 
issued or (ii)a credit card which is not used 
with the consent of the person to whom 
such credit card was issued, or (iii) a re
voked credit card, or (iv) a credit card 
which has expired, or (v) a credit card 
which is altered, or (vi)a counterfeir or 
false instrument purporting to be a credit 
card, shall, upon summary conviction 
thereof, if the amount of the credit obtain
ed by such use does not exceed fifty dol
lars ($50), be sentenced to pay a fine of 
not more than one hundred dollars ($100), 
or to undergo imprisonment for not more 
than thirty (30) days, or both, or if the 
credit obtained by such use exceeds fifty 
dollars ($50), then such person shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a 
fine of not less than one hundred dollars 
($100) nor more than five hundred dollars 
($500), or imprisonment for not more than 
one (1) year, or both. - Section 898 - 
FRAUDULENT USE OF CREDIT 
CARDS.
PRES. SEARCH
This Sunday evening at 8:45 WRCT will 
present Search For A President, a news 
program that looks at whats being done to 
find a new president for CMU.
Search For A President features a dis
cussion with some of the people directly 
involved in finding Dr. Stevers replace
ment. These people include Mr. Fred Foy, 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Dr. 
Daniel Resnick, Chairman of the Academic 
(Faculty) Search Committee, and Willie 
Thompson, Chairman of the Student 
Search Committee. The program focuses 
on what search committees and the Board 
of Trustees are looking for in a president 
and how they are going about finding one.
Search For A President is a special 
presentation of the news department of 
WRCT. WRCT also broadcasts campus 
news Monday through Thursday at 7:30 
p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972
Letters:
Editor: Editor:editors note
In May, 1973, Margaret Morrison Carnegie College will graduate its last class, and dose 
the history of a womens college in a mens institution. It is a history which included 
schools in social work (eliminated 1953), in library science (eliminated 1962), food and 
nutrition (eliminated 1972), textiles and clothing, home economics education, and 
recently, an innovative program in child development and childrens education. Its 
community projects have ranged from helping formerly institutionalized people reacquaint themselves with community life to teaching welfare parents about nutrition and 
household finance.
I do not intend to eulogize MMCQ not yet. Some of its faculty andprograms are still 
going strong. Some Faculty are far below retirement age; in fact only three are over 65. / 
am tired of the excuse "the faculty is all retiring and we couldnt find any competent...  
DrexelOhio State and Cornell, for example, all graduate competent scholars yearly in 
business resources and management.
No, MMCC is not dying, or rather, being slain because of an old and irreplaceable 
faculty. Neither is it because management, nutrition, public health or education are dying 
fields in which students are no longer interested. We know that the lack of research 
money and endowment funds is to be blamed.
What will happen to those faculty who are too young to be retired? What will happen 
to their courses, vJiich would have general interest to the campus if publicized?
It seems that Man, Food & Environment and other nutrition courses are too 
valuable to everyone-premed, biotech, and psychology students as well as environmenta
lists to allow them to disappear. But have any of these departments offered Dorothy 
Kolodner (M.S.CMU) or Despo Neumeyer (B.S. CMU) positions? A rhetorical question? 
Both womens positions will be terminated in May.
What about Helene Borkes (PhD, University of Chicago) courses in child development 
and interpersonal development? Do only home ec students benefit from these courses? / 
think not. Dr. Borkes chiId development course has students from H&SS, CFA,andCIT 
as well as MMCC The psychology department doesnt want Dr. Borkes human-oriented, 
non-mathematical courses.
The Psychology department refused to promote Dr. Borke. "They simply are unwill
ing to support the area of interpersonal relationships,  she says. Rather, the department 
chooses to deal only with cognitive processes, refusing to acknowledge that both social 
and cognitive areas are essential in studying human development.
Nor does it want the Childrens School or the child development lab. which serves over 
40 children of the community. When MMCC is gone, there will be no supportive faculty 
for the school or the lab. The child care center in Morewood Gardens will lose some of its 
staff. In a time of growing concern and necessity for day care, this is intolerable.
A MS hasnt offered Patricia Tengel (M. S. Cornell) a job to teach finance and manage
ment, her field in MMCC* * *
CMU will lose an incalculable amount of creativity, brain power and socially signifi
cant information (not to mention the loss of womens representation on the faculty) if 
these courses are lost. It is a crime to eliminate these areas all of which, if properly 
funded, would expand knowledge in new and growing fields and enrich the opportunities 
of students, male as well as female.
If this university can take on the responsisility of dosing a college, it must accept the 
responsibility of making sure that students and faculty suffer as small a loss as possible. 
There are many departments on this campus which could integrate these programs into 
their programs, and profit from them. A place must be found to keep these programs
Editor:
Few ever realise that intramurals here at 
CMU really enable one to get an experience 
in learning. No one would disagree when 
told CMU is truly an institution where 
education is unlimited. Learning is not 
limited to the lecture hall, the laboratory, 
the dorm room, or after the Friday night 
mixer. A small minority of CMU students 
get a thorough education on the athletic 
field. These are the students who 
encounter the nucleus of intramural sports 
on campusthe I.M. BOARD. The majority 
ofthe apathetic student body are ignorant 
of its existence, let alone its structure. Few 
ever realise that its existence is as big a 
farce as are a few of its rulings. The I.M. 
Board is ruled by two large fraternities for 
the most part. Oh sure, it also has a 
number of other members and a token 
representative from the dormitories, but 
any and all major decisions are reflected by 
controlling forces. Few students ever 
notice why mediocre teams are placed in 
weak sections in order to get into the 
playoffspots. Even if one ignores the fact 
that divisions are organized so as to be 
most favorable to certain teams well 
endowed with members on the I.M. Board, 
how can one excuse the disrespect payed 
to the dormitories teams. Case in point is 
that when deciding the members of an all 
school intramural team, the vote of the
representative of the dorms was not 
counted since the representative is also a 
member of one of the top two teams. All 
teams are not equal in the eyes of the I.M. 
Board. Even officials decisions are not 
sacred. But thanks to the Board there are 
those of us learning about true 
sportsmenship. Sure next week an article 
will apppear saying the cases in point are 
viewed in a biased light and then will go on 
to tell of how the I.M. Board promotes 
honesty and integrity. The article will deny 
that the board is a farce, and will tell of 
legalities of its decisions and how without 
those decisions utter chaos and confusion 
would exist in an organization provided for 
the enjoyment of the students. Let me 
remind you, however, that once any 
legislative body assumes any amount of 
control, you are sure to find people in that 
body who will tend to direct that body 
undemocratically. Within a week, the I.M. 
Board will vote whether or not a 
representative of the dorms should vote in 
this decision. If this member of the I.M. 
Board loses his vote, then the intramural 
system is not only run by the fraternities 
but then it becomes solely for the 
fraternities.
Oh yes, the athletic field has indeed 
proven to be a fine field to major in.
George Majetich
What respect can this school hold for 
music, its instruments, its instructions its 
students when one must account for the 
inexcusable condition of neglect that is 
owned to our pianos and practice rooms% 
When last did a CMU administrator step 
foot into one of our sparing rooms?
I am in the College of H&SS. However, I 
am enrolled in courses given by the music 
department. I find I am studying on pianoswhose keys are discolored, worn out, 
broken and bearing holes. The touch of the 
keys vary and many need to be weighted. 
Some of the strings are broken. Others are 
sorely in need of tuning. All of them are 
strung around rusty pegs. Many pedals do 
not operate properly, and some are 
abraded. Dust and dirt have settled on, in, 
over, under, and through the pianos. After 
playing, one may find ones fingers gray  
especially after playing the extreme upper 
and lower notes.
We are lacking sufficient number of 
practice rooms. We are lacking piano 
benches. Those we have wobble. We are 
lacking upkeep. Of all the pianos we have 
in our practice rooms, only two are baby 
grand.
I would like to direct this letter as well 
to the phantoms who have left their mark 
on our piano cases as well as the keys in 
the form of disfiguring cigarette burns. 
What kind of barbarianism is this?
Conditions of such abuse and disregard 
as these should not exist anywhere, let 
alone on our own campus. If there can be 
no heed given to the re sponsibilities of 
proper maintenance, respect and care 
which the accessions of our Music 
department demand perhaps we should 
abandon this program.
I dont believe our budgetary 
dilemma is in such drastic straits that we 
cant afford to attend to these necessities - 
NOW.
Roxanne
Editor:
I would like to make a few comments 
with regard to last weeks letter from 
Michael Jones about our dinner for Dr. 
Stever.
The planning for the dinner was a bit 
strange to say the least. It is indeed 
unfortunate some people in senate have so 
little regard for the fiscal policy they make 
and administer. It is also unfortunate that 
those same people are so impressed with 
themselves and their idea they remain 
oblivious to reality. The Rules Committee 
is investigating the unauthorized 
expenditures involved in the preparations 
and methods of preventing any recurrence.
The dinner was to honor President 
Stever in behalf of the entire student body. 
A number of senators had time to poll 
their constituents and found the response 
to be favorable. It should be remembered 
that thesenate is a representative body 
elected each year by the students.
With regard to our constitution might I 
simply suggest it be quoted correctly and 
read carefully, copies are available. Finally 
I would like to point out the fact that the 
senate ordered the inscription on the 
plaque changed to read Student Body 
instead of Student Government. This 
shows the concern our senate has for the 
students.
Michael J. Garl 
President, Student Governent
As you are aware I have been reaching at 
Carnegie-Mellon University for fourteen 
(14) years. I would like to make it public 
record that I was completely overwhelmed 
with the outstanding nature of the exams 
which I read for last semester in my class 
entitled Law in Modern American Society
- to my students thank you for such a re
warding experience.
John P. Flaherty, Jr.
Editor:
On this our last day at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Mrs. Stever and I wish to thank 
the Faculty, Students, Staff, Alumni, Trus
tees and Friends for all of the support and 
friendship they have extended to us in the 
past seven years.
We believe Carnegie-Mellon University is 
a good university and getting better.
We wish the University and all of you the 
best in the years to come.
H. Guy ford Stever
Editor:
I wish to comment on a very disasterous 
action that ABC-tv has recently taken. 
When I heard that they had the nerve to 
cancel one of my favorite entertainment 
and educational tv programs, the Lawrence 
Welk Show, I almost cried. For many 
years, I have admired his musicianship and 
directing abilities; he always has a new and 
fresh approach to each program, especially 
during the holiday seasons. And, too, he 
has that cute little Irish accent. I once 
heard that the number one listeners to his 
program were, indeed, mothers. Just think 
what will happen to the motherhood of 
America without Dr. Welk; I presume they 
will just have to return to dull knitting and 
mending. Its a sad day for the world when 
such an inspirational series is removed from 
the public.
M.A.
Editor:
There is no difference that I can see 
between the Mastery System proposed by 
Mina Gerall (TARTAN 20 and 27 January) 
and the present Honors/Credit/No Entry 
grading system used in the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences. Since each 
system uses two grades and abolishes 
penalties for failure, each generates grade 
point average and is thus amenable to 
computerization. Since there are three 
possible grades to be assigned, they would 
presumably (on a 4.00 scale) carry the 
weights of 4.00, 2.00 and 0 respectively; 
Miss Geralls 4.00, 3.00, and 0 weighting is 
non-linear and thus disadvantageous for 
computation. The problem is what to do 
about that zero. If we leave it in the 
computations, we have the penalty for 
failure which we tried to abolish. If we 
leave it out, everybody in H&SS has a 
minimum 2.00 grade point average. The 
solution, I believe, is to do both: count No 
Entry as 0 in semester-bysemester grade 
point averages which are used locally to 
determine academic actions but not sent 
outside the University, omit No Entry 
grades from the cumulative grade point 
averages which get sent to employers and 
graduate schools. (In the latter case failing 
grades are replaced by the requirement that 
a certain number of courses be passed for 
sophomore, junior, senior standing or 
graduation.)
Harold L. Burstyn 
Associate Professor, History of Science

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972 - Page 3
Announcements:
Richard O'Keefe, associate professor of english at CMU, will read selections from his 
poetry on Tuesday, February 8 at 11:30 
a.m. in Breed Hall, MMCC.
The reading is a part of the Englsih De
partment lecture series and is open to the 
public.
Professor O'Keefe has been a member of 
the English Department faculty since I965. 
He had previously taught at Kent State 
University and Loyola University in Chica
go.
During the past ten years, his poetry has 
been widely published and in I969 he re
ceived a National Endowment of the Arts 
award from the National Council of the 
Arts.
He holds a B.A. degree from Duquesne 
University and M.A. degree from Penn 
State.
"Emotional Consequences of Racism for
Whites is the topic to be discussed by Dr. 
John A. Ordway, psychoanalyst, Tuesday, 
February 8, 4 p.m., at the Tuesday Reports 
lecture series presented by the Maurice 
Falk Medical Fund.
Dr. Ordway said,"Emotional consequen
ces of racism for whites can be studied 
when and where they occur. Because in 
psychoanalysis the patient is encouraged to 
let his thoughts roam freely, the analysis of 
a white professional in a black ghetto gives 
a direct view of what happened when one 
white man was confronted with his preju
dices and participation in racist institu
tions."
Dr. Ordway is president of Queen City 
Foundation, Bangor, Maine.
The lecture is free and open to the pub
lic, and all are invited to a reception fol
lowing the talk.
"Man's Control Over Death" will be the
topic of a lecture to be given by Dr. Har
mon L. Smith on Monday, February 7 at 5 
p.m. at the Pitt Student Union Building, 
Dining Rooms A & B. Dr. Smith is on the 
faculty of the Duke University Divinity 
School and has worked as a consultant 
with the Duke Meidcal Center.
Dr. Smith has been widely published in 
periodicals and is the author of a book en
titled "Ethics and the New Medicine". His 
lecture will examine the medical, legal and 
ethical questions related to the problems of 
death and dying in our society.
This lecture is co-sponsored by the Pitt 
School of Medicine, Pitt Law School, the 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, and the 
Church and Society Institute of the Univer
sity and City Ministries.
Applications for the 1972 MCAT's are now
available in Scaife Hall IIO. April 15 is the 
application deadline for the May 6th Test. 
September 16 is the application deadline 
for the October 7th Test.
Mellon Institute of Science has appointed a
pre-medical advisory committee. Members 
of this committee would like to meet with 
interested students for a general discussion 
on Wednesday, February 9 at 4:30 in the 
Wherrett Room.
Is somebody stealing your heart away but
you're afraid you won't survive well with
out it? Give one of ours instead! A heartshaped box of fine Bolan's candy, personal 
gift card and free campus delivery. Orders 
taken next week, Baker Hall. Only a dollar. 
From CWENS, of course!
An Evening of Song and Chance. Come to
Mudge Graduate House Gambling Party. 
Refreshments, music too. Saturday night, 
February 12, 8:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Food Service next special event: Hawaiian
Luau on February 16, a special dinner to 
be held in Skibo Ballroom.
General Campus Committee of the Student
Senate will be meeting on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 9 at 6 pm. to discuss housing, food 
service and parking. Meeting will be held in 
Room 33, Skibo.
THE TARTAN would like to know who
placed the ad about the new movie com
pany because we have had several requests 
for information, and no one to send them 
to.
Film-makers interested in participating in
this spring's 3rd Annual CMU Film Festival 
(A Shower of Student Stars) may wish to 
be funded for their efforts. Assistance ap
plication information can now be found at 
the Skibo Information Desk. Act now. 
Deadline for all requests is February 7.
"They Can't Put It Back," a program on
Appalachia, will be presented at CMU on 
Friday night February 4, at 8:30 p.m. in 
the Cat's Cradle Coffee House in Skibo.
The program is free and open to the 
public.
Participants in the program are Michael 
Kline, folk singer, and Doug Yarrow, 
photographer, whose slides will be shown 
during the performance. Both men have 
spent many years working with the people 
and their problems in the Appalachian 
Hills.
The Student Senate Health Fund, WDC
and MDC are sponsoring a lecture given by 
Dr. Louis Meyers on "Sex Education on 
Campus." It will be given Monday, Febru
ary 7, in the Dorm Council Room, between
5 - 7 pm. Free Admission. Come prepared 
with questions, there will be a question and 
answer period following the talk.
The Graduate School of Library and Infor
mation Sciences' International Committee 
is sponsoring it's Eighth Annual Interna
tional Party. It is to be held on Saturday, 
February 5 from 7 pm. - 12:30 am. in the 
Ballroom of the Student Union at Schenley 
Hall.
There will be food, songs and dances re
presenting various countries all over the 
world. Everyone is welcome and can 
purchase their tickets from: Mrs. Teresa 
Benedek, 621-2500, Ext. 7485 or Mr. Gary 
Lowe, Ext 6157. Tickets are $3.50 per per
son.
David Cowley, cellist, will present a recital
in the Chatham College Chapel on Wednes
day, February 9, at 8:30 p.m. He will be 
assisted by Karen Gorton, pianist.
The program is open to the public. 
There is no admission charge.
The Carnegie-Mellon College/Community
Orchestra will present works by Stravinsky, 
Bach, and Kuhnau at a concert in Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland, Sunday, February 6 
at 8:30 p.m. The concert is free and open 
to the public.
Carnegie-Mellon University Hewlett Gallery
presents Joann Maier, Paintings and Engra
vings. The Gallery will be open for viewers 
through February 17, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
weekdays.
Diane Burko, 27 year old Philadelphia art
ist, will be present for the opening of an 
exhibit of her paintings in Chatham Col
lege's Falk Hall Foyer from 2 - 5 p.m. Sun
day, February 6. Th public is invited to 
attend.
The exhibit will continue through 
February 23. Hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
Monday through Saturday, and 2 to 5 p.m. 
on Sundays.
A member of the faculty at Philadelphia 
Community College, the artist is a graduate 
of Skidmore College and the University of 
Pennsylvania Graduate School of Fine 
Arts.
The work of four CMU seniors will be on
view at the CMU Students' Gallery Febru
ary 4 through February 10. The Gallery is 
located at 5200 Forbes Ave. and is open to 
the public.
Tne exhibit will include calligraphy by 
Linda Morris, photography by Harry Giglio, drawings by Dave Laufer, and prints by 
Heather Lovett.
The Gallery opens daily at II a.m. and 
closes at 8 p.m. Monday through Friday, 
and 6 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.
THE TARTAN is now accepting personal
classified ads. They must be within the 
limits of the federal statutes on pornogra
phic literature, not longer than 25 words, 
and submitted to THE TARTAN office no 
later than noon on the Monday before pub
lication. Price - $.25. Another public ser
vice from your friends at the TARTAN.
films*-
CAMPUS
THE LAST LAUGH: Film Arts. Thursday, 
Feb 3, PH 100,4:30,7:00,9:30 PM. Admis
sion: Film Arts Ticket.
THE MURDER OF FRED HAMPTON and 
HERE I AM NOW. SPIRIT. Friday and 
Saturday, Feb 4,5. Science Hall 7500. 6:30, 
8:30,10:30 PM. Admission: 41.50.
THE EYES OF HELL and FREAKS. AB, 
Friday and Saturday, Feb 4,5. PH 100. 6:30, 
9:30 PM. Admission: $.50 with AB film 
card. *
GEORGY GIRL. MDC. Saturday, Feb 5, 
DH 2210. 5:30, 8:00, 10:30 PM. Admis
sion: FREE.
HUSBANDS, 8 1/2 (Fellini), BED AND 
BOARD (Truffaut). TRASH and others. 
Film arts marathon. Sunday, February 6, 
Skibo ballroom. 11:00 AM-11:00 PM. Ad
mission: $1.00 or $.50 with film arts ticket.
FILM - SPIRIT will be sponsoring the
"Murder of Fred Hampton" and "Here I 
Am Now." More than a political 
documentary-a unique event in cinema 
history. THE MURDER OF FRED 
HAMPTON investigates the killing by 
Chicago policemen of the Illinois Black 
Panther Party Chairman, in a pre-dawn raid 
on December 4, I969. It is actually two 
films, a record of Mapton's last year (21st) 
of life and a solid investigation of his 
death. This explosively dramatic film 
juxtaposes the testimony of State Attorney 
Hanrahan, who ordered the raid and the 
police who conducted it with the 
unmistakeable physical evidence recorded 
by filmmaker Mike Gray and the 
eyewitness accounts of those who survived 
it. THE MURDER OF FRED HAMPTON 
presents a compelling case against the state.
and powerfully demonstrates film's 
capacity as an investigative tool. Friday 
and Saturday night, February 4-5 6:30, 
8:30, 10:30 p.m. in Science Hall 7500.
PITT
VALLEY OF THE DOLLS and BEYOND 
THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS. Special 
programs, Friday, Feb 4. 120 common faci
lities. 7:00 PM, Admission: FREE.
2001. Pangborn film club. Saturday, Feb 5. 
120 common facilities. 6:00, 9:30 PM. Ad
mission: $1.00.
WIND FROM THE EAST. UCIS. Wednes
day, Feb 9. 120 Common facilities. 8:30 PM 
Admission: FREE.
FILM AND PANEL: The "Holy Outlaw"
film about Daniel Berrigan and a panel on 
War and Repression with representatives 
from the People's Coalition for Peace and 
Justice, Harrisburgh 7 Defense Committee, 
Angela Davis Defense Committee, and 
Vibrations Prison Reform Committee. 
Friday, February 4th, 8:00 p.m. Clapp Hall 
L9 U. of Pitt. Sponsored by Pittsburgh 
Peace and Freedom Center (362-9000).
COMMUNITY:
2001. Pittsburgh Playhouse, January 30-Feb 
12. Call for times. Admission: $1.00
THE GREAT DICTATOR (Chaplin). Strand 
Theater. Call for times. Admission: $1.00 
reduction for students.
THE OLD FASHIONED WAY (W.C. 
Fields). Oakland Co-op, Friday, Feb 4,8:00, 
10:00 PM. Admission $1.00.
FIRES ON THE PLAIN. Friends meeting 
house, 4836 Ellsworth Ave. Sunday Feb 6; 
2:00 PM Admission FREE.
KING PRAVDAand EARTH. Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. Sunday, Feb 6. 7:30 PM. Admis
sion: FREE.
Personals:
Dear Alice: Happy birthday, turkey, you're
no longer a teenie. Love always, The Farmettesand friends.
Classified Ads:
HELP WANTED: Full or part time posi
tions available. Call 687-6385 for an ap
pointment.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding),
sewing machines, typewriters, and desks 
for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 p.m.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional, fashion and photographic 
areas. Experience unnecessary. Top sala
ries. Write A & R ASSOCIATES Box 7220 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
TIRES: Pair Sears steel belted radial
205-14 tubeless nearly new - $50. Pair 
Amoco radial tubeless 70-14 thumb tread - 
$10. Pair Atlas plycrom tubeless 695-14 
3/16 inch tread - $30. Pair Dunlop CW 14, 
735-14 studded snow tires 3/16 inch tread
- $20. Call 521-6734.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972
Your friendly Activities Board invites you to hear some foot stomping music,
and see in concert ^^SON PROFFIT
SUNDAY, FEB. 13 - 8:00 - SKIBO BALLROOM $1.50 with I.D. and Film Card
BEGINNING: Monday, 
February Seventh.
During the day on cam
pus, at night in the dormitories.
GOAL: Full student participation.
PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUPPETITION
IF P.I.R.G. IS APPROVED, THE UNIVERSITY WILL SERVE AS THE COLLECTION AGENCY FOR EACH STUDENT'S VOLUNTARY $2.00 PER SEMESTER CONTRIBUTION.
IN THE SPRING, CAMPUS ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD FOR THE LOCAL, C-MU P.I.R.G. BOARD.
INTERESTED IN MORE INFORMATION ?
WANT TO VOLUNTEER TO HELP IN PETITIONING?
CONTACT THE P.I.R.G. OFFICE IN 
PERSON, OR CALL:
telephone
6212198
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, STAND RESOLVED THAT THE WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC INTEREST 
RESEARCH GROUP (WPFIRG) BE ESTABLISHED!
THE PURPOSE OF WPPIfG SHALL BE TO ARTICULATE AND PURSUE THROUGH THE MEDIA, THE 
INSTITUTIONS Of GOVERNMENT, THE COURTS, AND OTHER LEGAL MEANS THE CONCERNS OF 
STUDENTS ON ISSUES OF GENERAL PUBLIC INTEREST.
THESE AREAS WILL INCLUDE ENVIRONMENTAL FRESERVATION, CONSUMER PROTECTION, AND THE 
ROLE OF CORPORATION AND GoVFRNMQiT AGENCIES IN THE LIVES OF AVERAGE CJTUENS.
WPPIRG SHALL BE NON-PARTISAN, N0N-PH0F1T, AiiD STUDENT CONTROLLED.
IT SHALL BE FINANCED BY AN INCREASE IN STUDENT FEES OF TWO DOLLARS PER STUDENT 
iER SEMESTER. THOSE STUDENTS NOT WISHING TO PARTICIPATE MAY CROSS THIS FEE OFF 
THEIR BILLS, AND NOT INCLUDE THE TWO DOLLAR PAYMENT.
UPON THE BEGINNING OF THE SEMESTER, ANY STUDENT WHO DECIDES AGAINST PARTiQPAxION, 
BUT WHO HAS PAID THE FEE, SHALL BE ENTITLED TO A FULL RETUND.
FRIENDS OF PIRG SHALL BE MANDATED TO NEGOTIATE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FEE 
ASSESSMENT SYSTEM WITH CARNECIE-ME1L0N UNIVERSITY.
I, A STUDE2JT REGISTERED AT CARNEGIE-MEJLLOh UNIVERSITY, HEREBY PETITION THE COMMITTEE
ON FEES AND CHARGES TO AUTHORIZE THE FORMATION OF WPFIHG'S FINDING MECHANISM.
NAMELastT uedyfrCOLLEGE

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972 - Page 5
ACTION
schatz
I began my responsibilities as Acting 
President of Camegie-Mellon University on 
February 1, and they are to continue until 
the new President to succeed Dr. Stever is 
elected and assumes office. Some of you 
have expressed to me your good wishes on 
this appointment, and I greatly appreciate 
it.
During the interval while the search for 
a new President continues, I shall do my 
best to keep both the offices of the Acting 
President and the Vice President for Aca
demic Affairs running smoothly. Mr. A. M. 
Gibbens, who has been Assistant to the 
Vice President for Academic Affairs on a 
part-time basis, will serve full time in this 
position. Dr. Raymond E. Parshall will con
tinue as Assistant to the President. Both 
will try to be as helpful as they can in their 
areas.
With two jobs to manage during this in
terim period, I shall of course be very busy. 
But I want you to know that I plan to 
devote as much time as I can to maintain
ing and improving further the quality of 
teaching and to helping to resolve problems 
of student life if solutions are not found in 
the normal ways. Any group of students 
who feel that a problem or concern needs 
to be considered at the presidential level 
should feel free to arrange a meeting with 
me; I shall be glad to discuss such matters 
because they are of importance both to the 
students and to the University.
I am appointing a Policy Council to ad
vise me on all matters of policy. The Coun
cil consists of the academic deans and the 
Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Facul
ty Senate, plus other members of the Fac
ulty and Administration as required. I will 
continue to meet with deans and central 
administrative officers on operational mat
ters.
I hope, As I am sure you do, that it will 
not be long before the next President in in 
office. In the meantime may I ask that all 
of you continue your commitment to full 
participation in the educational and other 
opportunities for personal and professional 
development. With all the campus commu
nity working together, the interim period 
can be a time when the University conti
nues to move toward further improvement.
Dr. Edward R. Schatz
Ai A A  hAAAAAAAAA,
is owner-operated by 
MR. MOTHER, RON PELINO,
a concerned parent!
^^7o^TH7N^"nnlotlhe^^meam^", 
"mother" . . . you're not invited!
 Dough Made Fresh Daily 
A FINEST INGREDIENTS AWE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755
(Across from Village Pizza)
hobson
Julius Hobson, stand-in vice-presidential 
candidate for the Peoples Party will launch 
the dirve to get that Party on the ballot in 
Pennsylvania when he speaks this Priday, 
Peb. 4 at 12:30 in the Wherret Room.
Hobson is an educator, peace activist, and 
a Leader in the Black community of Wash
ington D.C. He is the director of the Wash
ington Institute for Quality Education and a 
Lecturer at American University; He was 
elected to the districts school board in the 
late 60s, is presently the chairman of the
D.C. Statehood Party, and was that partys 
candidate for U.S. Congress last spring.
Hobson and Dr. Benjamin Spock have 
agreed to serve as provisional vicepresident
ial and presidential candidates, respectively, 
in states with ballot deadlines prior to the 
Partys nominating convention this August.
To get the Peoples Party on the ballot in 
Pennsylvania, 36,000 valid petition signa
tures must be collected between February 
16 and March 8. Groups are now forming in 
Philadelphia, Erie, and Pittsburgh and on 
several college campuses around the State to 
conduct that drive and to build a permanent 
progressive third party in Pennsylvania.
The Peoples Party, founded over 
Thanksgiving weekend in Dallas, Texas, is a 
national coalition of independent third par
ties and non-electoral groups from several 
states throughout the country. Major com
ponents included the Peace and Freedom 
Party, which run Gregory and Spock for 
president and vice-presidpnt McCarthys in
dependent candidacy that same year.
The Peoples Party platform calls for im
mediate and total withdrawl from Southeast 
Asia and eventual withdrawl of all U.S. for
ces from foreign soil, an end to institutional
ized racism and self-determination for all 
minority groups in this country; It demands 
the transformation of our economy to guar
antee fulfillment of the basic human needs 
of all Americans, abolition of laws which 
make crimes out of victimless acts, and 
health are for all. It includes the assertion of 
womens rights? and it demands reduction 
of material consumption and a viborous 
effort at conserve what remains of the world 
ecology.
The Peoples Party is working to build a 
national, electoral and non-electoral force 
for change in Americans well as to provide a 
progressive alternative in November. Any
one interested should contact Steve Clare 
(731-1292) locally, or the Peoples Party 
national office, 1404 M Street N.W., Was
hington D.C., 10005.
A new federally sponsored program that 
encourages students to serve for a year in 
anti-poverty work on subsistence pay for 
which they get full academic credit, has 
drawn response far beyond the expecta
tions of its instigator and director, Joseph 
Blatchford, according to a report in Febru
arys issue of McCalls newslatter, Right 
Now.
Called Year For Action, this program is 
part of Action, the government agency 
which is also responsible for the Peace 
Corps, Vista and other federally sponsored 
service bureaus. Under present guidelines 
various universities select community pro
jects, recruit and train students and super
vise their years service at a pay scale of 
$200 per month. Since it was begun in 
June of last year about 1200 students from 
31 universities across the country have 
joined the 7.8 million dollar program, with 
about half of the total effort going to edu
cation, 25% to health, another 10% to the 
administration of justice and the remainder 
to other social problems.
According to McCalls, Blatchford 
claims YFA is the wave of the future and 
is predicting, on the basis of this years fi
gures, that the program will expand to
5,000 to 10,000 volunteers next year.alumni
Mina Gerall
Fundraising is not the only activity in 
which the Alumni Association is involved, 
according to Jerry Kleinman, associate di
rector of that group. Developing student 
interest and involvement is his offices 
main concern. The Alumni Association is 
attempting to make itself visible to further 
the process of community concern.
In conjunction with the Admissions Of
fice the Association provides prospective 
Carnegie-Mellon students with the names 
of area alumni from whom they may infor
mally acquire additional information about 
C-MU. During Freshman Orientation the 
Association provides information to incom
ing students.
The Association is now attempting to 
aid students in discovering and selecting 
careers. During March it will sponsor a ser
ies of seminars in career alternatives, inclu
ding biotechnology, public relations, and 
university administration. Some emphasis 
will be placed on viable alternatives for 
H&SS graduates.
The Placements Bureau and the Alumni 
Association are establishing a program to 
place students in summer, part-time, and 
eventually full-time, jobs. The program will 
utilize alumni and their associates in the 
business world.
The names of over 4000 C-MU alumni 
in colleges and universities throughout the 
United States and the world are on file, 
and are available to graduateschool bound 
students. These faculty members and 
administrators are anxious to serve inquir
ing C-MU graduates.
These and other programs are aimed at 
building ties between the University and its 
prospective alumni, who will hopefully be
come active in recruiting, public relations, 
and scholarship drives for Carnegie-Mellon.
The Alumni Association is located on 
the fifth floor of Warner Hall.
Round
TripEurope $189.00
PITTSBURGH - LONDON - PITTSBURGH
PGH.-LON. 5/10/72  LON-PGH. 8/13/72
ALL PITT, CMU, and DUQUESNE STUDENTS, FACULTY,
STAFF and THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES ARE ELIGIBLE.UNIVERSITY AIR CHARTER
204 SCHENLEY MANOR DRIVE PITTSBURGH, PA. 15201
CALL: 9 a.m.11 p.m. MondaySunday 412-782-3274
OVERDOSE
The American Association of Medical 
Colleges estimates that about 35,000 stu
dents will be competing for the 13,000 
places available next fall. This estimate is 
based on the number who took the 
AAMC-sponsored Medical College Admiss
ion Test during 1971.
The increase in applications and the in
formation provided by several surveys is 
sufficent evidence to predict that the ranks 
of medical school applicants will continue 
to swell rapidly. Several surveys show sub
stantial increases in the number of pre-med 
students in undergraduate populations. In 
addition, there is an indication that many 
people who hold advanced degrees in 
science and engineering now wish to switch 
to medicine. Many who are unemployed 
degree holders see medical careers as more 
secure than their own fields of training.pirgWs
The PIRG movement is gaining momen
tum here. Next week members of Friends 
of PIRG, the Carnegie Mellon organizing 
committee of the Western Pennsylvania 
Public Interest Research Group, plans to 
start a petition campaign on campus. The 
object of this campaign is to demonstrate 
to the administration, student support for 
PIRG. This petitioning effort is directed 
towards all CMU studentsboth full and part 
time students, campus residents and com
muters and undergraduates and graduates 
as well. It is important that every student 
interested in the establishment of PIRG at 
CMU sign the petition. Petitioners will cir
culate through the classroom buildings and 
Skibo during the day and through the 
dormitories at night. Included in this peti
tion will be a request that a funding mecha
nism for PIRG be added to the student bill.
The success of PIRG will depend on a 
sound and lasting financial structure. A 
haphazard system of voluntary donations 
each year would not be a realistic way of 
financing PIRGs expansive programs. A re
liable source of income is a necessity each 
year. As a result the negative check-off 
system is being advocated at CMU. This 
means that students will petition the CMU 
administration to act as the collecting 
agent in adding a $2 assessment to the stu
dents invoice at the beginning of each 
semester. Those students who do not wish 
to participate may cross it off their bills 
and not include the $2 payment. The third 
week into the semester any student who 
has decided against participation, but who 
has paid the fee, will be entitled to a full 
refund.
Refunds will be made in a convenient 
publicised location. Adequate notice will 
be given to students of the availability of 
such refunds. If 51% of the CMU student 
body request a refund of the West Penn 
PIRG fee, all West Penn PIRG fees will be 
refunded and CMU would cease to be a 
member of West Penn PIRG until 51% of 
the student body petition for the resump
tion of the fee collection.
After student and administrative appro
val is given to PIRG, a campus election will 
be held in the spring to elect students to a 
local PIRG board. This board will be in 
charge of allocating funds collected to
wards research in such areas as consumer 
protection, landlord/tenant relations, envi
ronmental quality, and sex and race discri
mination. This research will be conducted 
by students, faculty and professionals. 
PIRG, with this solid funding and admini
stration will be able to tackle many social 
problems.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 -Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972
KRIS KRISTOFFERSON IN CONCERT 3!
CD
Sponsored by COTA
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:
I
Pitt Student Union, C-MU, < 
Chatham, Duquesne _ 
and Free People's Store!. 1
C/>
XR33N00 NI NOSIiajJOlSIHlI
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
Si
CAMERA EXCHANGE
-------------------------.Student Discount on Most Items:
3711 FORMS AVENUE Phone: 683-2181
Pete Georgiades
It appears we of the H&SS college shall 
again soon be fighting the annual issue of 
grades and grading systems. This year pro
mises to be one of the more interesting in 
recent years. With the arrival of fresh anta
gonists both in the freshman class and as 
transferees from other colleges, and the 
loss of many protagonists through transfer 
and shell-shock, the team balance is in 
doubt. The Evaluation Committee on 
Grading and Graduate Schools soon will, 
have much to say, which should contribute 
to the excitement, and the class of 73 is 
nearing graduation, with anxiety over grad 
school admissions. Most important, there is 
pressure both from within and without the 
H&SS college to find one system and stick 
to it, giving this contest an air of finality.
Being a sporting gentleman, it would 
please me to contribute my share towards 
making this years event exciting and color
ful. The following is a proposal for a sys
tem to replace our present one, in the even 
Honors-Credit-NE should fail. Please consi*. 
der.
THE SYSTEM:
The basic system calls for the setting of 
a standard at the beginning of each semes
ter; one that the professor considers to be 
good work. This means the student 
would have to operate in the course at a 
reasonably high level of mastery in order to 
meet the pre-set Standard.
As the course progresses, whether by 
many steps, as with unit exams, or by one 
big step as with semester projects or juries, 
the student would have to achieve at the 
criterion level in order to continue. Failure 
at any point to meet the criterion would 
prevent the student from beginning the 
next step. A student might, however, at
tempt a re-take without penalty if he fails. 
The re-take would be regularly scheduled, 
outside class time. This would allow the 
student to review weak points, get rid of 
his cold, or forget his lost lover in order to 
pass theaexam. (My version of this system 
allows for only one re-take, both for prac
tical reasons of time and resource and be
cause evidence exists that students failing 
the second exame either fail a third or 
barely pass a third and then fail the next 
exam.)
Students who meet the standard are do
ing good work and so receive a B grade. 
Students not meeting the standard at any 
time would receive a No-Entry. Some al
lowance for extra effort or exceptional 
work must be made, so to these people go 
As.
Note that there are many points at 
which this system may be varied. Should 
we adopt this system, we would have to 
decide how it should be modified to best 
suit our particular situation. For example, 
we could make non-major electives straight 
pass-fail.
SOME ADVANTAGES OF THE SYSTEM:
1) It places emphasis on learning course 
material well.
2)It de-emphasizes inter-student compe
tition, and in fact encourages cooperation 
(a non-zero-sum game).
3) Unnecessary anxiety over grades is re
duced.
4) Challenge and reward for superior 
performance are provided, but not at the 
expense of others.
5) It offers an evaluation system that 
may more easily be interpreted by graduate 
schools than our present one (ie. a letter 
grade).
6) A grade for a course outside H&SS 
can easily be integrated into the record.
7) it gives a student, who is having 
trouble, notice, and time to rectify the si
tuation.
8) The no-entry provision eliminates 
all the stigma of the R.
9) The adoption of this system would 
maintain the integrity of this institution as 
experimental, something which has gained^ 
us some national notoriety.. . yI *  . 
SOME PROBLEMS OF THE SYSTEM:
1) It takes more of a professors time to
administer and correct a second exam or to 
go over a semester project a second time. 
This problem could be in large part solved 
by the use of Teaching Assistants to handle 
paper work, exam correcting and proctor-1 
ing, etc. This would also provide more 
good, educational work-study. <
2) A mastery system would not be equi
valent to an A-B-C-D-R system in the eyes ^ 
of most grad schools. However, it would be 
far easier to comprehend and trust a mas
tery system where a B is a B than it 
apparently is with our present system. One 
might even calculate a QPA! f)
I am sure refinements of this idea will 
be floating about later in the year. I just 
wanted to introduce the idea, and get 
ready for another round.ells
Daniel Ellsberg spoke at CMU during the ) 
winter of 1971. Ellsberg spoke here a short 
time before the New York Times published 
the Pentagon Papers and made Ellsberg one 
of the most sought after college campus 
lecturers. He was brought to CMU by the 
Program for Executives (PFE) conducted by 
GSIA.
The Program is designed for high eschelon executives, both American and foreign. ^ 
Business managers like Michael G. Moss, 
marketing director of Birds Eye Food Ltd., 
Shirley B. McDonald, division manager of 
the US Postal Service, and George F. Rod
gers, a physical scientist with the CIA spend 
nine weeks in the GSIA and the Webster Hall 
Hotel expanding the sharpening their mana
gerial capabilities. The emphasis of the pro
gram is on planning and the implementation ^ 
of those plans. GSIAs Associate Dean Ber
nard Goldsmith, director of the program 
asserts that PFE brings heightened aware
ness of issues facing the business manager to 
highly competent and sharp executives. 
Planning for issues like minority stock
holders rights, technological trends, and 
international business concern with cultural 
and legal disparities among nations is inclu* 
ded and related to conventional problems 
like marketing analysis and financial con
trols. PFE considers financial, research and 
development, human, and productive re
sources and their place in the economy.
The programs rigorous course schedule, 
conducted by GSIAs most prominent pro
fessors, is complemented by a full schedule 
of guest speakers. This portion of the pro| 
gram, the portion that brought Ellsberg to 
CMU, is open to the CMU community. 
These informal discussions are kept small 
and intimate so that the talk may be open 
and free. They serve, as Goldsmith stresses, 
as the illustrations for the PFE textbook. 
Speakers are chosen for their particular ex
pertise in areas that impinge on manage
ment. ^
This years PFE guest speaker program 
includes Richard L. Thornburgh, US District 
Attorney for Western Pa., who spoke today.
He examined the criminal justice system and 
what is being done to correct inadequacies in 
police, court, and correctional systems. Also 
listed on the schedule are: Lewish D. Gil
bert, exponenet of minority stockholders 
rights, on February 8; Dr. Arnold R. Weber, ^ 
a member of the Presidential Pay Board on 
February 22; Dr. Timothy Costello, former 
New York City Government Official and * 
President-elect of Adelphi University, on 
Feb. 24; Judge Ruggero Aldiesert, of the 
Third Circuit Court of Appeals, on Feb. 29; 
and Ben Fisher, David Craig, Tasso Katselas, 
and Dr. Leslie Falk on March 7, 9, 16, and 
21, respectively. The lectures are at 4:00 PM ^ 
in the GSIA auditorium.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972 - Page 7
j&l
Leslie Bram : ;
/o/m Gross
This article presents a plan for monetary 
compensation by the Student Senate to 
students for work that is performed in con
nection with services benefitting the stu
dent community and that is over and above 
the amount a student can reasonably be 
expected to perform.
This plan does not call for any student 
occupied position to be salaried (nor would 
it prohibit a salary). Instead the plan would 
pay students an hourly rate for overtime  
work. Only the work in excess of a reason
able amount would be compensated.
This plan is presented following justifi
cation of the plan using the TARTAN and 
Student Senate as examples.
TARTAN staff turnover has been high. 
It seems that there is one heck of a lot of 
work to be done in getting this thing out 
everyweek: Like typing the entire paper, 
pasting the articles and pictures on layout 
sheets, and delivering the paper to the gas 
station next to the printers late at night So 
that the printer can pick it up and have it 
done on Thursday.
The previous TARTAN editor estimated 
that he spent about 30 hours a week on the 
paper, much of it doing crap-work that 
needed to be done. Weve also heard rum
blings from at least one of the new co-edi
tors of the TARTAN too.
We propose that Student Senate com
pensate the staff for this excess work re
quired to put out a paper. Note that we are 
not proposing to salary the TARTAN staff, 
nor are we suggesting that the staff be paid 
for doing all the work their positions re
quire. But, to put out a paper does require 
more work than can comfortably be done 
by students. The penalties to the staff are 
too high and thus the TARTAN is always 
hard-pressed for staff and has a high turn
over. We think that it is reasonable to as
sume that the quality of the paper is consi
derably affected by this fact.
Student Senate is afflicted with the 
same problems. There is only so much time 
available for Senate. To have an effective 
student government and provide good ser
vice and activities to the students, a lot of 
work must be done here, too: typing the 
minutes, typing, letters, printing posters, 
running concerts, keeping financial records, 
etc.
In spite of occasional holes in its poc
kets, the Senate has in general been pretty 
darn miserly with the students money, and 
in fact is likely to end the year with a sur
plus.
We think that the quality of the services 
provided by student government funding 
and the effectiveness of student govern
ment itself is severely affected by not pro
viding compensation for some of the work 
that needs to be done. Student Senate does 
however compensate its secretary (who is 
not a member of Senate) and it pays the 
two students on the TARTAN staff for the 
time they spend typing (and only for the 
time spent typing).
We believe (although it has never been 
explicitly stated) that these students are
paid because it is obvious that the work 
they do is pure tedium and they get no 
other benefit (compensation) but their 
wages from Student Senate.
In keeping with the philosophy implicit 
in the paying of the Senate secretary and 
the TARTAN copy staff, we feel that Stu
dent Senate should adopt a motion similar 
to the following:
' It is hereby recognized that there are 
student occupied positions in student or
ganizations and in student government fun
ctions (or in future student organizations 
and student government functions) that are 
of importance (or will be of importance) in 
providing services to a sizeable number of 
students.
It is also recognized that some of these 
positions require (or will require) work in 
excess of that compensated for by non
monetary benefits.
In cases where it can be shown that 
there is excessive work in an important stu
dent position and the time spent perform
ing the work can be kept track of, the Stu
dent Senate will compensate the students 
for the excess work at a rate not below the 
minimum wage.
The burden of showing that a student in 
a particular position is doing an inordinate 
amount of work and that the position is 
important will fall upon that student.
This resolution is not to be construed as 
requiring or prohibiting a salary or wage 
for performing the ordinary duties associa
ted with a student position where the work 
involved is not in excess of what would be 
considered in harmony with the non-monetary compensation received.
Payment will be made through normal 
University channels.
In essence this resolution states that 
when it can be shown that a student is 
going to be spending an inordinate amount 
of time in helping to provide a service to a 
sizeable number of students, that student 
must be paid for the excess amount of time 
above the time that he would normally be 
expected to spend.
No student occupied position is specific
ally excluded or included in this motion. It 
is up to the Student Senate, upon being 
petitioned by the student in a position, to 
decide if that position requires compensa
tion.
If Student Senate adopts this resolution 
(which will be brougt up at the next meet
ing, Monday, February 7), the services pro
vided by Student Government funds 
should be substantially improved in quqlity 
and quantity. This will not be because the 
students in charge will all of a sudden be 
motivated to do better work, but because 
the dogwork that simply was not done or 
was done inconsistently will now get done.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
COUNSELING
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
AND THURSDAY
From 1 to 3 p.m. 
By Appointment
621-8875
FLYING
11 to 2 a.m. every day GINO and PETES
Take Out Order* 411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
082*8691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order -iPizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
GREEK
Socrates and Plato, not to mention Zorba, will turn in their graves February 18 and 
19 as Pan Hellenic Council and CFP(CMUs 
Council of Fraternity Presidents) presents 
1972s Greek Weekend. The planned pro
gram includes Greek Sing Friday night at 
Carnegie Music Hall and Greek Swing Satur
day night at the Syria Mosque.
Greek Sing is a platonic choral competi
tion among the sororities and fraternities on 
campus. Mary Ann Voinovitch, Sing coor
dinator, forsees a program similar to last 
years. Light, contemporary tunes will set 
the mood for the evening. Unconfirmed 
sources say that at least one new, innovative 
production may set new precedents in the 
annual traditional competition. In any case, 
the 1900 tickets to the show that will start at 
8:00 PM are to be given away free. Coordina
tor Voinovitch coordially invotes indepen
dents as well as all Greeks to attend.
There will be three catagories of competi
tion: sorority, fraternity and combined. Sig
ma Nu is vocalizing with the DGs, while 
Tri-Delts sing along with Beta Theta Pi. The 
ATOs will harmonize with Kappa Alpha 
Theta, and Chi Omega is joining forces with 
Tau Delta Phi. Kappa Kappa Gamma is the 
only group in the sorority catagory. All the 
other fraternities, except Theta XI and Pi 
Kappa Alpha will enter the fraternity com
petition.
Saturday, night, Lauren Hutton has plan
ned a seminar in epicurean delights in keep
ing with the Greek theme. He has altered the 
format of Swing so that the Syria Mosque 
will shelt er a combination super mixer and 
date party. Last year Swing was a semi-for
mal affair downtown at the ballroom of the 
Hilton Hotel.
Dance music will be provided by Air 
Canada and the Banjo Band, a sing-along, 
Your Fathers Moustache-type group, will 
present sit down entertainment. During the 
awards ceremony, trophies will be awarded 
to the winners of the previous nights com
petition. Tables will be set with light snacks. 
Hutton expects a successful affair, as even 
ATO which did not participate in last years 
Swing is planning on attending the $5 per 
couple party. Festivities will run from 8:00 
to 12:00.vote
A recent survey of CMU students newly 
registered to vote revealed that 54 percent 
had registered Democratic and 8 per cent 
had gone Republican.
The survey was conducted by mathema
tics Professor John Wolfe and his class as an 
exercise in the use of computers for statisti
cal analysis. Seventy-three percent of the 
respondents (144) were registered and 32 
per cent had voted in the last election.
H&SS freshman were the most electorally active group, the survey revealed, and 
H&SS the most active college. CIT and Find 
Arta followed. Freshman, sophomore, and 
senior respondents were over 70 % register
ed, while the mark for the Junior class was 
56 percent.
Some 4 to 5 per cent of the respondents 
favored incumbent President Nixon in 1972. 
Edmund Muskie and Georg McGovern were 
significant favorites among the choices list
ed, but an extremely large number of stu
dents expressed a preference for none of the 
current candidates.
TABLE 
all respondents: 148
female percentmale per cent
Nixon54
Muskie2115
McGovern1519
McCarthy94
Lindsay87
Kennedy6. 4
Chisholm63
none of these3143
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEl FOUNDATION 
315 South Belief eld Avenue 
3rd Floor 
Every Tuesday Evening 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
anderfhisfle 
hand knitting yarns
812 ivy street 
ihbdytide
CHASSEC
strt wm AVSNUc 
PtIS PtHM AVKMUf
end ROUTE 0. 
NOffTH OF ETNA
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
litwtii Clu 
or at Study Iri
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 S29 $49
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc 
e WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVINGROOMS, ETC. 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Choirs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, etc. Larger Furniture thru 
Wholesale Showrooms.
HOTCY'C
5426 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OP0N DAILY 10 o.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information .. . Call 621*1025

---------------------------------------------------

you'll -fu/enty
.-nnaybe.do a rbr\ck., AvtPage 8 - Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972
FUSE
A Carnegie-Mellon University professor 
has developed a mechanical fuse that 
will take the shock out of low-speed auto
mobile crashes.
Milton C. Shaw, head of mechanical en
gineering department and director of the 
Processing Research Institute, says that the 
safety device, inserted between the bumper 
and the frame, would prevent damage to a
4,000 lb. car colliding at five miles per 
hour and would reduce whiplash forces by 
at least 95%.
The heart of the device, an inexpensive 
piece of metal tubing encircled by a cutting 
tool, would absorb the unwanted energy of 
an impact and be replaced after a crash, 
just as an electrical fuse is replaced afterit 
blows.
Manufacturing cost of the expendable 
tube would range from 10 to 25 cents, Dr. 
Shaw says.
The fuse would cost less to install 
initially than hydraulic-pneumatic shock 
absorption devices currently proposed for 
bumpers and could be replaced simply and 
inexpensively at any service station, Shaw 
claims.
The same design may also be adapted 
for collapsible steering wheels, elevator 
safety devices, or overload devices for press 
brakes, shears, and other machine tools, he 
adds.
Shaw explains that the mechanical 
fuse concept involves the conversion of 
energy into heat, while other proposed de
vices store the energy of a crash and accele
rate it in reverse after impact, subjecting 
passengers to whiplash.
At least 95 percent of the reverse accele
ration would be eliminated by the fuse, 
Shaw states, since the device would convert 
impact energy into heat carried offf by 
chips or shavings from the tube as the bum
per drives it through the cutting tool.
The tube would be made of aluminum 
or steel and would be available in different 
diameters for automobiles of different 
weights. Two would be used for each bum
per, and bumpers would extend three to 
four inches beyond the body of the car.
Shaw notes that the fuse is capable of 
withstanding normal towing and bumper-jack loads and would require the remo
val of only two nuts for replacement.
Commenting on present demands by the 
government that bumper shock-absorbing 
devices be self-setting and capable of with
standing 16 impacts without replacement 
or readjustment, Shaw cautions that such 
requirements will needlesssly increase the 
initial cost of a car as well as boost the cost 
of repairs on the devices following exces
sive impacts.
Initial installation costs of the fuse 
would be some 10 percent lower than 
other proposed devices, according to Shaw.
An alternative fuse designed by the 
CMU professor and employing similar ma
terials would irreversibly absorb crashenergy by buckling at a uniform rate on 
impact. Costs and replacement would be 
about the same as for the chip-producing 
device, he says.
MARTHA MITCHELL! 
HATES |\
\  Dough Made Fresh Daily * j
? FINEST INGREDIENTS A
WE DELIVER f
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755 |j
\ (Across from Village Pizza)
cotton blues
Marc Elliott Field
Men who make music provide the great
est service to the world. They make you 
happy, sad, excited or anything they want 
to. Last Wednesday night two beautiful 
things happened at CMU:the first snow of 
the year made the city white and the James 
Cotton Blues Band returned to Pittsburgh.
I got a chance to speak with Cotton be
fore the show and he told me about him
self in a quiet, easy manner. He started 
playing the harp at age 7. The reason was 
that it was the cheapest instrument avail
able and the only one his mother could 
afford to get him. For a while it was only a 
toy until James heard Sonny Williamson 
play the harp on an ARK. radio program. 
At 9,he began to take it seriously and stud
ied with Sonny until he was 15.After that, 
he inherited Sonnys band. It didnt hold 
together too long and James feels it was 
because he was too young to lead it.
The next big break came when Cotton 
hitched up with Muddy Waters. He stayed 
with that band for 12 years and played 
blues all around the world. Somehow that 
wasnt enough.
Six years ago the James Cotton Blues 
Band was formed. Cotton said he wanted 
the freedom to play the blues the way he 
felt them. Some of the music is his own, 
some of it was picked up from other 
groups, and some was written just for the 
band. Cotton told me St. Louis Jimmy was 
the best blues writer that ever wrote for 
the group.
And now, five albums later, they arrived 
at CMU for another fantastic session. The 
personnel had changed a little since the last 
time but the band was just as together. 
Matt Murphy played the guitar (he really 
didnt play it, he sort of floated between 
the notes at super speed - very smooth). 
JEsse Hawkins tore it up on the tenor sax 
in the first two numbers, pounding out 
some good long solos. The only member 
from the original band was Robert Ander
son on Bass. Jesse Green played the drums.
Then there was Cotton. His voice, just
like his harp, could be sweet and smooth or 
have a hard blues rasp. His harp solos broke 
the place up.
The group plays nite clubs and colleges 
but they prefer the latter. Matt Murphy 
told me theyre much more receptive to 
the music. The band ends up working 
about 40 weeks of the year.
I asked Cotton if he had any favorite 
song that he would do during the concert. 
He said they were all his favorites. Youve 
got to feel it before you can do it - if you 
dont feel it, you cant do it. Everyone in 
the ballroom knew that Cotton felt every
thing he played because they felt it, too.
When the concert finally ended (the 
only bummer was they wouldnt do an en
core) everyone walked out into a beautiful 
Pittsburgh, feeling better than theyd felt 
for a long time.
The band? Matt told me they were dri
ving to Wallingford, Conn. for a show the 
next night. They drive almost everywhere.
I asked him why the group doesnt fly. He 
smiled and replied, We wouldnt want to 
miss a date because wed been hijacked to 
Cuba.
PLUG
Stephen Hamm
A PR man from Paramont Records came 
around to the TARTAN office with a stack 
of records, presumably new releases, which 
he thought we might like to hear. There was 
a recording of the Mills Brothers at Folsum 
Prison, one by the Everyday People, one by 
somebodys brother-in-law, and one with a 
cloth bag covering the record jacket. I took 
this one home.
The title of the record is Gooduns and 
its done by King Biscuit Boy, who has his 
name on the cover, Larry Atamanuik from 
Seatrain, Rick Bell from the Full TiltBoogie 
Band, and odds and ends from Dr. Music and 
Crowbar, two groups from Toronto. Most of 
the songs were written by or arranged by 
Richard Newell (King Biscuit Boy). The re
mainder are old R&B and blues tunes from 
the fifties and before done first by the likes 
of Junior Parker, Little Walter, and Willie 
Dixon.
Newell does all the vocals and is capable 
of sounding like Otis Redding, J. Guiles, Bill 
Hailey, or himself, depending on what the 
moment and the song demand. On Twenty 
Nine Ways to My Babys Door you hear
Hailey, only without the Comets behind 
him. Whats behind is much bluesier, dirtier, 
and electric; flavored by the passing of the 
years. Boogie Walk Part I is a reminiscence 
by Newell. In his words, This is a song 
about the Saturday night get-togethers that 
my friends and I used to have about ten 
years ago; and about one friend in particular 
who once drove a 53 Chrysler thru the wall 
and the livingroom of our house. He was the 
creator of the Boogie Walk. On this one 
Newell plays boogie harmonica along with 
the Flour Power Harmonica Band, snaps his 
fingers into the microphone, and sings a kind 
of greaser monotone. The songs are notable 
for great lyrics as well as music and 
musicianship. You Done Tore Your Play
house Down Again starts off with some 
blues piano and goes into a sad song about a 
man and his hard drinking woman.
Boom, Boom Out Goes the Lights 
rivals You Done Tore Your Playhouse 
Down Again for fine lyrics. It stands a head 
above the rest for that straightahead 
rockin blues and in fact exemplifies the 
kind of music that you will find on this 
album; nothing new and fancy, just old fash
ioned gooduness.
f A>rned ftmefeen -tfis.vetr,,, , go-h /5 in ~ttxQ JotrCry 

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972 - Page 9
The Film Arts Society and the Activities Board
present
THE FILM ARTS MARATHON
Sunday, Feb. 6, Skibo Ballroom 
11:00 A.M. till 11:00 P.M.
 11:00 pm Husbands
 1:23 pm Un Chien Andalou
 1:39 pm Kind Hearts and Coronets
 3:25 pm The Exterminating Angel
 4:56 pm The Face
 5:19 pm 8Y2
 7:34 pm Bed and Board
 9:11 pm Trash
50c WITH A FILM ARTS CARD, 
$1.00 FOR EVERYONE ELSE
STRIA MOSQUE 
FEBRUART 18, 1972 
8:30 P.M.
BUY YOUR TICKETS AT THE STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE, 360 CATHEDRAL, CMU, AND DUQUESNE. 
!DS ARE REQUIRED. TICKETS ARE S3.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - Tartan, Thursday, February 3,1972
_ "1 Sportshockey
The Tartan ice hockey team last Sunday 
moved into second place in the City 
Division of the WPICHA with an impressive 
victory over duquesne University, 8 to 3. 
C-MU now has a league record of two wins 
and one loss. The one loss was suffered at 
the hands of Pitt, which C-MU will meet 
once again later in February.
The Tartans victory over the Dukes is a 
sign of the teams rapid development. 
Carnegie-Mellon pressed in the Duquesne 
zone right in the opening minutes, and as 
action bussed around the net, C-MUs Mike 
Kenworthy slammed home a 20 foot slap 
shot to open up the scoring. However, with 
fresh skaters on the ice the Dukes roared 
right back, this time pressing C-MUs goalie 
Jeff Hart, until with only three minutes 
played in the first period, Buzz Reinhart 
scored for Duquesne on a screen shot.
But this was the most of what Duquesne 
was to see of the C-MU net, as the Tartans 
took control once again and dominated 
play for the rest of the period. Three more 
goals were scored by C-MU in this period, 
all were banged in from scrambles in front 
of the Duquesne net. Mike Kenworthy 
picked up hissecond goal of the period, 
while wings Dick Eastman and Jim Powers 
got the other two. The superiority of 
C-MUs forward line of Kenworthy, 
Eastman, and Powers was clear throughout 
the period and the game. The passing and 
skating of this line has been improving all 
season.
The second period looked like a 
different hockey game. Duquesne knew 
how crucial the game was to them and that 
it would take a strong effort to come back 
from a 4 to 1 deficit. The Dukes 
immediately set the spirit of the game as 
they began to check and out-muscle the 
Tartan skaters. The play was much more 
agressive and four penalties were handed 
out in the period. C-MU capitalized on the 
first Duquesne penalty with Dick Eastman 
scoring in another scramble in front of the 
net. Duquesne came right back, however,
Chuck Bond
Washington & Jefferson and Clarion 
State proved to be too much for the CMU 
swimmers as they dealth the Tartans deuce 
defeats last week. The 65-47 loss to W&J was 
relatively close compared to the 82-31 thras
hing at the hands (and feet) of powerful 
Clarion State.
CMU broke out on top by capturing the 
400-yard medley relay (4:21.7) last Wednes
day evening at W&J, but the home team 
slowly came from behind to snatch the win. 
Later the Tartans captured the second relay, 
but by this time the meet was out of reach. 
Saturdays loss at Clarion was inevitable. 
There simply arent many teams around, it 
seems, which can match Clarions strength. 
This is evidenced by the fact that not one of 
their swimmers was entered in his regular 
meet event. Instead each of their swimmers, 
the night before the meet, selected from a 
hat a slip which listed the event in which he 
would participate. Despite this disadvan
tage, Clarion captured first places in event 
after event, and thus the 82-31 score is only 
vaguely indicative of what it could have 
been.
as Doug Carter scored to make the score 5 
to 2 in favor of C-MU. In the remainder of 
the period, the Tartans and Dukes both 
traded goals in slapshots by C-MUs Dick 
Eastman and Duquesnes Dudley Cotton.
Tempers rose in the second period and 
assured that the third period would be a 
wild and wooly one. It Was! Duquesne, 
with less depth than the Tartan skaters, 
began to tire early in the period. C-MU, 
able to skate three lines of forwards, was 
fresher and pressed more in this period 
than it had in the whole hockey game. The 
action flew at full tilt from end to end of 
the rink, players checked every chance 
they had and the crowd got a chance to see 
some really wide open hockey. Penalties 
again were dealt out to both sides and 
signaled a change in the pace of the game: 
boarding,tripping, slashing. This time 
though, the Dukes didnt physically 
dominatethe period as they had done 
before. Boards and bodies rattled at both 
ends of the ice.
Hustler John Hauser opened up the 
scoring for C-MU in the final period on a 
deflected pass in front of the Duquesne 
net. Earlier in the period, Hauser ripped a 
slap shot from the blue line which careened 
off the goal post. The final score of the 
game came from C-MUs Kenworthy with 
just over a minute left in the game, making 
the final score 8 to 3 in favor of the 
Tartans. Both Ken worthy and Eastman had 
the three-goal hat trick.
C-MU goalie Jeff Hart was nothing less 
than great throughout the entire hockey 
game. Duquesne had numerous chances to 
score in scrambles in front of the net and 
in breakaways, but Hart continued to make 
hey saves and relieve the pressure on the 
Tartan skaters. The second and third 
periods were most trying for the C-MU goal 
tender as the action flew up and down the 
ice and as the play became more aggressive.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans
defeated West Virginia by a score of 9to 7, 
and lost to Gannon College at Pittsburgh's 
Civic Arena 7 to 2, both non-league games. 
The Tartans next game is Saturday, Feb. 5 
at 4:30 p.m. at the Alpine Arena. The 
opponent will be Indiana University of
Pennsylvania, now in first place in the
Metropolitan Division. Support your 
hockey team and be there to see the
Tartans win!
Surprisingly enough, Clarion is not the 
best team representing the Penn-Ohio Con
ference. That distinction goes to Ashland 
University, conference champion the last se
veral years. CMUs coach Fagan said that No.
2 Clarion is catching up fast, taking a giant 
step closer last year. In any event, last Satur
days meet was the last time the Tartans will 
swim against Clarion, as CMU will begin 
competition in the PAC next year.
Its not too hard to see that it takes a little 
more heart and work to participate against 
the Tartans tough competition. Junior Lar
ry Lawson is an example; CoachFagan says 
Lawsons hard work is really paying off in 
his diving. Some of the teams other men are 
becoming steadily better. Lloyd Miller, a 
senior, had his best time yet in the 200 yard 
individual medley last week. Senior co-cap
tain Kent Schnake is presently proceeding at 
a pace which should enable him to break the 
CMU team record of 1:59.3 for the 200 yard 
freestyle. In the last three meets Schnakes 
times have dropped to 2:05.8, 2:03.5, and 
2:01.8 respectively. He tied the team record 
last March, so perhaps hell smash it next 
Wednesday when the Tartans test Allegheny 
here.
wrest:
Allen Kohan
Last week the wrestling team went down 
to defeat three times..In a triangular meet, 
the grapplers lost to two powerful teams. 
Waynsburg won by a score of 46-6 and West 
Liberty won 51-3. Two days later, CMU lost 
to St. Vincent by a score of 39-15.
The triangular meet was an especially 
gloomy affair in addition to suffering a 
double defeat. The Team also lost Tom Diller and Mike Vettri due to injuries. Tome 
reinjured his shoulder in the West Liberty 
match, and Mike, after pinning his muscular 
Waynesburg opponent, injured his arm in his 
West Liberty Match. Both are doubtful sta
tus for upcoming meets.
The 6 points scored in the Waynesburg 
match were scored by Mike Vettri as he 
wrapped his opponent in a cradle early in the 
second period. Besides three forfeits, 
Rogers, Kelston, and Curcilla lost by pin, 
while Kohan, Etkin and Iigons lost by deci
sion.
In the West Liberty match, Steve Etkin 
(150) scored the teams only victory by nar
rowly decisioning his opponent, 9-8. Of 
those wrestling, Diller, Rogers, Kelston, Cur
cilla, and Iigons lost by pin, while Kohan 
lost by decision.
The team started the St. Vincent match 
forfeiting the 118, 126, the HWT classes, 
thus going down 18 points at the start. A1 
Kohan (134) turned his man over with a 
cradle, and scored a fall in the second period. 
Joe Curilla (142) and Larry Goodwin (150) 
lost by falls. Larry was very aggressive in the 
mat, but his inexperience eventually deter
mined the match outcome.
Pete Kelston (158) lost by a fall, and Vic 
Rogers lost an 8-1 decision. Steve Etkin 
wrestled up 3 weight classes at 177, but still 
managed to hang on to a 5-4 victory. Clyde 
Ligons rebounded from a first-period deficit 
and pinned his opponent in the final period.
With a diminished squall, the team hopes 
to put forth a good shwoing Saturday 
against Pitts B team. Support the team in 
its toughest week of the season, when it 
wrestles 3 meets at home next week: Mon. 
against Bethany at 7:30, Weds, against Alle
gheny at 4:00, and Fri. against W&J at 7:30.rifled
Elsbeth Weichsel
This last weekend saw the Tartan riflers 
lose to Duquesne (1273-1251) on Friday 
and triumph over Clarion State (1273-1263) 
on Saturday.
Scoring C-MUs points were Wray Paul 
(272), Steve Roth (259), Norm Cable (249), 
Gary Musgrave (248), Eric McNeal (245).
Carnegie-Mellon has four more league 
matches and the N.R.A. Intercollegiate 
Sectional Match to be shot in February.coming:
Home Athletic Events-Week of February 7, 
1972:
SWIMMING:
Feb. 9 (Wed), CMU vs. Allegheny, 4:00 PM. 
WRESTLING:
Feb. 7 (Mon), CMU vs. Bethany, 7:30 PM; 
Feb. 9 (Wed), CMU vs Allegheny, 4:00 PM; 
Feb. 11 (Fri), CMU vs W&J, 7:30 PM. 
BASKETBALL:
Feb. 2 (Wed), CMU vs Westminster, 8:00 
PM, Feb. 8 (Tues), CMU vs W&J, 8:00 PM; 
Feb. 12 (Sat) CMU vs Grove City, 8:00 PM.
stuffed...
Howard Shapiro
In theory, all basketball hoops are 
created equal. However, in reality this is far 
from being true, and as a result of this in
equity CMUs hustling team was defeated by 
St. Vincent 81-69 last Wednesday night at 
venerable old Skibo Gym.
93 points were scored at the far basket in 
the game as compared to 57 for the near 
basket and unfortunately CMUs under
manned squad had to change hoops at the 
half. It was a shame, since they shot 60% 
from the field in the first half and went 
downstairs leading 46-34. Jeff Hollis led the 
charge and everyone helped out as the Tar
tans played a complete team game at both 
ends of the floor.
But in the second half, CMU went cold, 
St. Vincent got hot, and the Bearcats just 
used their superior height and depth to wear 
down the game Tartans. Guards Terry 
Vrabel and Dave Baird led the charge, scor
ing 27 points between them in the second 
half.
Last semester CMU would have easily 
beaten St. Vincent but these days the best 
offensive guard in Pittsburgh (one mans opinion), Gene Turner, is hurt, and former 
star Bob Brown has dropped out of school. 
As a result the Tartans had to play their 
starters most of the way as 5 of the 6 substi
tutes were inexperienced freshmen.
What CMU could have used was some 
help from the stands, where many of the 
better basketball players in the school sat 
and watched, not playing because they were 
dissappointed and dissatisfied with previous 
stints with the team.
The reason for this attitude is that the 
athletic department and the school adminis
tration refuse to compensate the players for 
their efforts and refuse to reach a consistent 
athletic policy. Playing a varsity sport takes 
plenty of time and hard work and this year 
the players are not even receiving the court
esy of a meal every day following practice. 
While there are no official athletic scholar
ships at CMU some players receive aca
demic scholarships to play sports. But not 
enough players. For some athletes the var
sity program at CMU is less impressive than 
their high school program.
And yet in spite of what seems to be a 
gradual de-emphasis of varsity sports here 
just last semester it was announced that 
starting next year the basketball team will 
compete in the PAC, seemingly a step 
towards a better program. At the same time 
it was announced that there will be no junior 
varsity basketball team this year. What could 
be more contradictory than these two state
ments? The freshmen, instead of getting 
game experience, are just rotting away on 
the varsity bench. Next year, those who do 
decide to play again will have wasted one 
year of competition.
The administrations position is totally 
inconsistent and should be challenged. Ei
ther the varsity program is upgraded to en
courage the best athletes to play or varsity 
sports should be dropped completely. 
Otherwise CMU is just wasting money (and 
our deficit is great enough already).
Meanwhile this years Tartans continue 
to show fine spirit and at times they can be 
very exciting to watch. Unfortunately 
Brother J.C. and the rest of the boys just 
cant seem to put two good halves together.
jude
MERMEN

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan, Thursday, February 3, 1972 - Page 11
klines AND yarrows
*
They cant put it back...
A PROGRAM
of Songs & Photography of
APPALACHIA
CATS CRADLE COFFEE HOUSE 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 4,1372 8:30 pm
FREE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - Tartan, Thursday, February 3,1972
BLACKS 
CONT'D.
participate within the white university sys
tem. In his reply, Dr. Johnson noted that if 
Americas black population is to achieve 
economic autonomy, then they must ac
quire a range of skills which they correctly 
do not possess in sufficiency, but which they 
obtain from the white university. This he 
cautioned does not imply a quest for cul
tural integration, but only a demand to be 
granted equal access to the skills.
Sensing that the substance of Dr. John
sons talk is of immediate concern to all here 
at CMU, I undertook to make it secondarily 
available to those not present at the forum 
via this newspaper article. Fearing, however, 
that I might misrepresent the intent of 
things said, I approached Dr. Johnson in an 
infromal interview seeking an amplification 
of some of the points he made during his 
luncheon presentation. Specifically I asked 
him to clarify his use of the guest-host model 
of the black presence here at CMU.
Graciously responding to my inqueries, 
Dr. Johnson pointed out the fact that at 
least 80 per cent of the black students 
enrolled at CMU come from predominately 
black high schools, and that perhaps 90 per 
cent have lived in black communities. Conse
quently, when confronted with the whitebased CMU environment, most black stu
dents cannot presume to simply blend into 
it, nor should they want to try to. They are 
in this sense guests of the white univer
sity, and that university must recognize their 
cultural uniqueness and compensate accord
ingly. The only way you can handle...diff
erent behavior...is if you behave as a host. 
Dr. Johnson lamented that all too often here 
at CMU every attempt is made to define 
black students in the same way as white 
students with negative consequences, for 
If I define you like me, I ignore you. When I 
ignore you, I dont even acknowledge your 
presence.
As an example of white students refusal 
to interact with black students on meaning
ful levels, Dr. Johnson noted that white 
students are prone to criticize black students 
for sitting together in the cafeteria, but 
when approached by blacks as potential 
table-mates, The white student damn near 
abdicates. Similarly, the black student may 
be criticized for fraternizing solely with 
other black students by the same white 
student who, blinded by un unconscious 
hypocrisy, forgets that he is guilty of similar 
exclusiveness by virtue of his membership is 
a social fraternity, etc. Student Senate offi
cially refuses to recognize the unique posi
tion of blacks in a white university when it 
dictates SPIRITs very activities by a restric
tive allocation of funding.
In conclusion, Dr. Johnson pointed out 
that he is not advocating the establishment 
of two degrees at CMU: a black degree and a 
white degree. Rather he is suggesting that 
there are several possible paths to the same 
degree, instead of a strict adherence to the 
traditional One pipe strategy.
JULIE
influence of 18 year old vote would be she 
replied, The young voter is an undecided 
voter waiting to see what positions the cand
idates will take. She does feel that her part 
in the campaign will be more important as 
she speaks to young voters across the nation.
For most of us it was a generally routine 
and slightly boring tour. Yet the young blind 
children that she spoke to were extremely 
excited to meet her. They all chatted ahppily with her as she watched them in such 
activities as bowling, sewing, arts and crafts, 
geography and reading classes, and mobility 
classes.
The children certainly got a real treat and 
the Pittsburgh Board of Education and the 
Western Pa. School for the Blind got the 
publicity they wanted.
SIMON 
CONT'D.
establishment because they realized that 
science and technology were necessary for 
progress in our society.
Dr. Simon continued to state that soc
iety was frightened (not sick) by the chal
lenges and criticisms leveled against it. The 
way to restore its nerve was to educate 
everyone in the true sense of science, tech
nology, and economics. A healthy dose of 
the mind expanding methods of science 
should be injected into the very core of the 
liberal education. With such an education, 
a student would understand and feel more 
a part of the world.
Dr. Simon concluded his speech by sta
ting that our own university is a perfect 
place to try to heal this academic gap. At 
CMU, he said, everything lives side by side 
with technology. Hence we have the oppor
tunity to truly integrate it into the educa
tion of all students, an objective Dr. Simon 
said that he would work to make the most 
important problem on the academic agenda 
of CMU.
POETRY
The International Poetry Forum announces 
the appearance of Maureen Stapleton on 
Wednesday, February 9, in an evening of 
poetry readings entitled POETRY YOUNG 
AND OLD at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, Oakland. Miss Stapleton will 
be accompanied by two young actors, 
Nicholas Guest and Kathy Allentuck. Miss 
Allentuck, who is Miss Stapletons daugh
ter, has recently attracted national atten
tion because of her role in SUMMER OF 
42.
This program replaces the previously an
nounced appearance of Jessica Tandy and 
Hume Cronyn. Their appearance has had to 
be postponed until next season. Those 
holding tickets for the originally scheduled 
evening by Miss Tandy and Mr. Cronyn 
may use them for this new program.
Miss Stapletons first Broadway appear
ance was in 1946 in a small role in THE 
PLAYBOY OF THE WESTERN WORLD, 
she played a bit part with Katherine Cor
nell in ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA and 
on tour in THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE STREET.
She made her motion picture debut in 
1959 in MISS LONELYHEARTS, for 
which she was nominated by the Academy 
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences as the 
best supporting actress. She has also starred 
in Truman Capotes TRILOGY and in AIR
PORT. Miss Stapleton recently finished 
filming Neil Simons PLAZA SUITE with 
Walter Matthau.
Maureen Stapleton also won the 1971 
Tony Award for Best Dramatic Actress for 
her performance in THE GINGERBREAD 
LADY, currently on Broadway.
f JOES PIZZA }
3 is now delivering 9
i Compare Our Prices V
I 9" PIZZA ..........................80
* 12" PIZZA ........................1.40 4
Extras  .25 and .30 i
SANDWICHES*
I HOAGIE ................................80 I
| HAM .....................................65 ?
I MEAT BALL...........................50 1
I HOT SAUSAGE .................50
I CHEESE..................................35 11 SODAS ..................................20 I
Delivery Charge to Dorms.
? .35 A
CALL: 621-3223
4800 Baum Boulevard
Jon Manon
Last week found C-MU the site of soapboxing by a high ranking member of the 
notorious troubleshooters known affection
ately in big business circles as Naders Raid
ers. Don Ross, a lawyer working for Ralph 
Nader out of Washington, D.C., found time 
in his hectic schedule of comings and goings 
to promote enthusiasm at C-MU for the 
founding of a Western Pennsylvania Public 
Interest Research Group (WP-PIRG). Don, 
who was instrumental in organizing the first 
PIRGs formed in Oregon and Minnisota, and 
who collaborated on the Nader sponsored 
do-it-yourself-U.S.-repair manuel entitled 
ACTION FOR A CHANGE, it currently pro
moting the organization of more collegefinanced PIRGs throughout the country. 
During his brief sojourn at C-MU, he granted 
the TARTAN an exclusive interview, the 
substance of which follows.
According to Don Ross, the impetus for 
the formation of regional PIRGs derives 
from Ralph Naders philosophy that you 
can fight city hall. However, voting once 
every two years has not proved very success
ful in solving some of the massive problems 
facing society. And so, in confronting these 
problems, in addition to active engagement 
in electoral politics, and volunteer parttime 
work, there is a real need to form a class of 
full-time public citizens. To insure that 
these full-time public citizens can work 
independently, free from government and 
commercial financial control, an alternate 
source of funding is required. The solution 
offered by the P1RG concept is that these 
public servants be hired by a large number of 
college students at little cost to each stu
dent.
Ross indicated that the full-time, legal, 
non-violent methods of change orientation 
of the PIRG program has evolved in part 
from an examination of the failures of past 
voluntary student movements which have 
invariably crumbled due to Christmas holi
days, summer vacations,  etc.. He caution
ed that he is not suggesting that elite teams 
of technicians be established, but rather 
that the PIRGs be so organized that the
professionals hired would be tools to be 
used by the people in implementing initia
tory democracy.
Don Ross was quick to stress that the 
Public Interest Research Groups, for the 
most part organized on a statewide basis, 
would be individually autonomous. (People 
on the local level are familiar.with local t] 
problems.) Ralph Nader and company are 
actively supporting the establishment of 
PRIGs because they look forward to having 
allies on the local level, but absolutely no 
money is to change hands between Naders 
Washington based organization and the in
dividual PIRGs, nor is any control or co
ordinating activity to be exercised by Na
ders Raiders. t]
To date, PIRGs have been founded in 
Minnnisota, Oregon, Vermont, and Washing
ton. In assessing the probable success or 
failure of founding efforts in the nineteen 
states currently being petitioned, Don Ross 
was honestly uncertain. He said that 
nowhere has the idea encountered massive 
opposition from regents, trustees, or admin
istrative agents, but that in certain areas, for i] 
example in Idaho and Utah, student disinter
est has defeated initial efforts to establish 
PIRGs. Naders national organization can 
not much longer financially afford active 
involvement in promoting PIRG develop
ment (By April of this year, well have done 
all that we can do.), but Ross hopes that 
the critical mass theory will be operative, 
whereby the formation of groups in a numjj 
ber of states would be incentive for there 
formation elsewhere.
Don Ross is enthusiastic about the poten
tialities of the studentsponsored PIRGs. He 
envisions them as a means through which 
campuses can abdicate their traditional role 
as ivory towers and become public inter
est centers concerned with the community. 
Ross eagerly outlined ways in which PIRG \ 
research might be integrated into college 
curriculum: political science classes could 
investigate local government processes, and 
economy classes could deal with problems 
of consumerism, while engineering students 
might probe neighborhood housing needs 
and explore methods of pollution cleanup. 
Additionally, concerned professional people 
could find meaningful alternative careers t 
in the full-time employ of a PIRG.
