3TVC Carnegie 3Tartau
Vol. 35 No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941
Vol .o335N 8CCAR3EGI 
SGTU O5FGo5 Vo3oHGF
LY, P BTLLF DMoRVM Naval Films
To Be Shown
Basketball Coach 
Assumes New Duties 
In Publicity Work
M. E. Hannum, publicity man
ager of athletics and varsity basket
ball coach, succeeds William Schoyer as acting manager of the Car
negie Tech News Bureau last Sat
urday, November 1.
Since Willard N. James left the 
Carnegie Tech News Bureau last 
November to become secretary of 
the board of trustees at Hollins Col
lege, Virginia, Mr. Schoyer  has 
served as acting manager. He has 
been here on a part-time basis, and 
in the future intends to devote all 
of his time to his private business, 
the publicity advertising firm of 
Schoyer and Goss.
For the present at least, Mr. 
Hannum will continue as publicity 
manager of athletics and coach of 
varsity basketball. He Las been 
assisting Mr. Schoyer in the News 
Bureau for a month, and assumed 
the duties of acting manager on 
November 1. Mr. Schoyer will con
tinue to serve here at Carnegie on 
a part-time basis during the month 
of Ncrvember, and will officially 
sever his connections with the 
school December 1. The duration 
of Mr. Hannums appointment has 
been set at one year.
Max Hannum has been a wellknown campus personality for 
years. When. he fir?t came here 
in 1930, he was appointed pub
licity manager of the athletic asso
ciation, which later became known 
as theDepartment of Athletics. 
When Ralph Hagan resigned as 
basketball coach in 1936. Mr. Han
num was asked to take over the job 
temporarily. So successful was he 
that he. has remained in that posi
tion up to the present time.
At the time of his appointment 
in 1930, he was on the sports staff 
of the Pittsburgh Press. Mr. Han
num is a graduate of the University 
of Pittsburgh.
For several years before coming 
to Carnegie Tech, he was one of 
the foremost basketball referees in 
the tri-state district. Shortly after 
he took up the coaching reins here, 
he turned out a championship bask
etball team.
Dorm Council 
Holds Dance
For the first time since its forma
tion on the Tech campus, the 
Dormitory Council will have a name 
band playing at its annual fall 
dance. Leighton. Noble and his 
seventeen piece band have been en
gaged for the affair and they will 
provide really danceable music.
Noble is a Pittsburgh favorite 
currently playing at one of the 
more prominent night clubs in 
town, and he has been looking forward to the Tech engagement ever 
since meeting several Tech maidens 
at his present spot. His music 
should stop the complaint of the 
students desire to dance, since 
Noble features sweet dance music.
The Gym will be decorated on 
the old red school house theme and 
the dorm men are going to a lot of 
expense and trouble to see that the 
decorations are novel and interesting.
Dorm men are admitted to the 
dance free of charge and other stu
dents pay $1.50. Since the date of 
the dance, Nov. 14, falls right after 
mid-semester exams, it is hoped 
that all-students, .will avail them
selves of the opoortunity of hear
ing a name band at low admission 
price.
Guild Sells Tags 
For Scholarships
Today the Womens.Guild is hold
ing its annual Tag Day. This is in 
an effort to raise money for the 
scholarships it gives to worthy stu
dents. The tags this year are lit
tle clowns on a string, which cost 
at least a dime. The Guild hopes 
everyone will contribute.
The Guild will hold its annual 
dance on December 12 in the Gym. 
Ail the organizations will have 
booths decorated in the Old English 
style.
A. P. O. Holds Dinner
There will be a dinner meeting 
j o'' Alpha Phi Omega this Thursday 
| evening in the Faculty dining room 
at 5:30 P. M. Following the dinV ner the group will hold the business 
\ phase oi the meeting in the faculty 
lounge. All actives and pledges are 
urged to attend.
. . . Vol o o..35
To Students
Bard Calls For 
Your Manuscripts
Carnegie Techs annual publica
tion devoted entirely to the liter
ary endeavors of the students is be
ginning its search for material. 
Alpha Chi Alpha is initiating the 
drive to obtain poems, essays and 
short stories for the Bard. These 
articles can be turned in at Box 
409 in the post office by any Tech 
student.
Tech literary enthusiasts should 
take advantage of this opportunity 
to have their works published in 
the Bard, a three-year old publica
tion which far surpasses its youth 
in excellence.
The Spring Carnival Committee 
wants to have the kind of carnival 
music you want. This noon ballot 
boxes will be placed in the main 
halls of all colleges, so pick your 
favorite bands.
Final Oppormiity 
To Take Frosh 
Traditions Exam
The final reexamination/of the 
Freshman Traditions test will be 
given next Tuesday, at 11:30 A. M. 
in room 218 Engineering Hall. All 
Freshmen who wish to partake in 
any campus activities at all must 
have taken this exam. If they 
have not done so by now, they 
must take it next Tuesday. Fol
lowing the exam the Freshman 
Orientation Committee will take 
definite action. A weeks notice 
has been given so that those stu
dents who will take the exam may 
have an opportunity to prepare for 
it.
The following list is a statement 
of the policy of the Orientation 
Committee, and will be strictly ad
hered to in all cases.
1. This is the last time that the 
exam will be given. After this 
date, an official list of names of 
those students who have not passed 
the exam will be given to the ac
tivity groups, thus preventing those 
listed from further participation in 
activities.
2. All Freshmen transfer stu
dents who have been excused from 
the wearing of regulations must 
take the exam.
3. Those who are in doubt, as to 
whether or not they must take the 
exam should check this matter with 
the office of the Dean of Students.
4. Anyone who finds it abso
lutely impossible to take the exam 
at this time, must submit his or 
her reason to the Freshman Com
mittee, Box 393, before tomorrow 
at 4:30 P. M.
5. All Arts school and Engineer
ing Freshmen are subject to these 
regulations.
N8CAR5o. E8GC.IoIGS. TS55GIICCU
O.FSH5C.I N3.F Architect Gives
LGYC. ,S.oIGS.A 
PB DCMR 4135.G
A gift of five hundred dollars has 
just been given to the 1946 Endow
ment Fund in memoriam of Mary 
Louise Brown Graham, former Dean 
of Women who recently passed 
away. The gift was given by Al
fred S. Andrews, Industries '26, 
and his wife Estelle Garibaldi An
drews, M. M. 26. Both Mr. and 
Mrs. Andrews attended school at 
the time of Dean Grahams incum
bency and are establishing the fund 
as a token of the high esteem which 
they hold her memory.
Mrs. Graham, prior to her com
ingto Tech, served as Assistant 
Dean of Women at Missouri, and 
also at Ohio State University. She 
came here in the fall of 1-922, and 
occupied her position for two years. 
At this time she married Mr. James 
M. Graham, a Pittsburgh lawyer, 
and retired from the Administra
tion. She has since been most ac
tive in Civic affairs.
.. The fund which Mr. and Mrs. An
drews have founded will be added 
to from time to time by its orginators, and any member of the class 
yof 1926 are invited to earmark their 
annual alumni gifts to it. It is 
hoped in time that the fund will 
become large enough to permit the 
awarding of a full tuition scholar
ship to some student. The details 
of the scholarship have not as yet 
been formulated.
Following graduation, Mr. An
drews established a paper box fac
tory in Cleveland which he later 
sold to enter the American Flag 
and Decorating Co. of which he is 
now president.
In addition to this bequest, Miss 
Spilman also recently received a 
donation to the Endowment Fund 
in memory of the late Professor 
Harry S. Hower. The gift was sub
mitted by Mr. S. M. Siesel, 08.
Students Warned; 
Don't Visit Sick
Most of the cases we send to the 
Presbyterian Hospital are for up
per respiratory conditions, and one 
of the reasons for sending them 
there is to isolate them from the 
fraternities and dormitories.
This purpose of isolation is de
feated if the patient receives many 
visits from interested and solitous 
friends on the campus, such as has 
been the popular practice here
tofore. So, for self-protection and 
for the protection of fellow class
mates, it is requested by the de
partment of student health and the1 
hospital authorities that the stu
dents kindly refrain from visiting 
their friends who are hospitalized 
for upper respiratory infections.
Illustrated Talk
Richard J. Neutra, internationally 
famous architect, of Los Angeles, 
Calif., will deliver an illustrated 
public lecture, Regional Influence 
on Architecture, in the Exhibition 
Room of the College of Fine Arts 
at Carnegie Tech, today at 4:30 P. 
M. The lecture will be of primary 
interest to students of architecture, 
but will be free to the general pub
lic.
A graduate of the Polytechnical 
College of the University of Vien
na, My. Neutra is best known as a 
practicing architect, a lecturer; 
author and consultant. He has won 
numerous awards in competition 
with thousands of entries. He is or 
has been a member of the United 
States National Advisory Council on 
School House Planning, consultant 
for the United States Housing 
Authority and consultant for the 
National Youth Administration.
Tech Fonlball?
Dr. Ralph C. Hutchison, president 
of Washington and Jefferson Col
lege, will be the speaker for next 
Tuesdays assembly at 11:30.
Three films depicting life in the 
U. S. Navy will be show at the As
sembly, today, in the Little Thea
ter of Fine Arts. These films, whi.-h 
have been procured from the U. S. 
Navy Recruiting Station are for 
the purpose of showing people in 
the inland sections of the country 
exactly what happens to a newly 
enlisted sailor.
Making Man-O-War is in two 
reels, and shows the transformation 
of a raw recruit to a finished sea
man. The scenes were taken at 
the U. S. Naval Training Station 
and picture the drills, exercises, 
schools, and various phases of en
tertainment that occupy the mens 
time.
The second film, Making Crafts
men, was taken at Hampton Roads, 
Va., where Navy specialists are 
made. It is at this Training Sta
tion, that the Navy makes good its 
boasts of teaching men a valuable 
trade, for there atHampton Roads, 
the Navy has erected modern car
pentry, welding, machine, and elec
trical shops.
The last and perhaps most inter
esting film is entitled Submarines 
At Sea. Taken aboard a sub
merged craft, it shows the perils 
and dangers which the men in the 
submarine division accept as an 
everyday experience.
Next weeks assembly, which falls 
on Armistice Day, will hear Ralph 
Cooper Hutchison, president of 
Washington and Jefferson Univer
sity. His talk will be on the ideals 
for which we fought in the last 
war and their relationship to our 
present international position.
DHS 9.AI83MIS8A 
4FFCF IS NoM31IB
The appointment of Walter Sabotka as an instructor in the Arts 
School has just been announced by 
Professor W. Frank Hitchens, head 
of the Architecture Department, 
Mr. Sabotka, the author of many 
articles in the field of industrial 
design and architecture, will teach 
Saturday morning classes in archi
tecture and interior decoration for 
high school students.
A native of Vienna, Austria, Mr. 
Sabotkas distinguished care e r 
abroad has included low cost hous
ing, the design of furniture, and in
terior decorating. He will teach 
the latter subject to the Saturday 
morning classes at Tech, although 
he also instructs at Pitt.
James A. Mitchell, a member of 
the firm of James A*. Mitchell and 
Dohlen K. Ritchey, architects for 
the Defense Housing at North Braddoclc, is the other instructor ap
pointed. He will teach architecture. 
Mr. Mitchell who is. a graduate of 
Tech, in 1934 won the Stewardson 
traveling scholarship, outstanding 
scholarship award.
4GoI 1o9EU aA OG sFGUG3EGI 
D3 kFA5C et a,FGG 8FER9MGU
By Leonard Chotiner
The football situation here at 
Tech has reached the point where 
the students are wondering what 
will be the nature of football on 
this campus. Will there be com
plete elimination of football, will 
the present status quo be retained, 
or. will Tech again try to reach the 
position it once held in intercolle
giate football?
Beginning with last years sea
son and continuing up to the pres
ent time, the students have been 
expressing their views on the situ
ation and what they would like to 
see done to remedy it. Everyone 
knows that Dr. Baker, his staff, and 
the football team are doing the best 
that they possibly can under the 
circumstances, and the student 
body offers no complaint in that di
rection. Rather, the criticism is 
directed at Dr. Doherty and the Ad
ministration for allowing matters 
to stand as they do.
The TARTAN has no bones to 
crack in the matter. Our job is to 
publish news, not opinions, although 
we do try to print, in the Letters 
to the Editor column, the opinions 
of the students on the football ques
tion. knowing full well that the 
question of football policy is fore
most in the students minds. Our 
chief criticism of these letters and 
opinions is that the student body 
does not seem to realize the facts 
which havf* led up to nnd formu
lated the policy of the Administra
tion. We would say that fully 75
per cent of the students do not know 
the true facts in the case nor do 
they know, although they may have 
a hazy conception of President 
Dohertys actual statements and 
stand on the question of intercol
legiate football.
The TARTAN, working in collabration with Max Iiannum, Manager 
of Athletic Publicity and coach of 
the Tech basketball team has pre
pared a series of three articles on 
the nature of football here at Car
negie which we hope will give the 
students the true facts in the case. 
In these articles we will sketch the 
beginning of football at Tech to 
the present time and in the light 
of present policy attempt to show 
what the future holds for intercol
legiate football at Carnegie. The 
official records of the school have 
been used for reference material 
and next week the first of three 
articles will deal with the incep
tion of football on the campus up 
to Dr. Dohertys arrival as Presi
dent. In this article we will have 
the true facts on: the Athletic As
sociations rise and reasons for its 
disintegration; what caused the 
era of high pressure football here 
at Tech; what the nature of subsidation was during the flamboyant 
1920s; what part does Tech play 
in regards to the Pitt Stadium and 
how did we get tied up in it in 
the first place, and the answers to 
many other questions which you, 
the student body have asked, but 
have never been corectly answered.
VRMREoFb OoMM 
co3H aMRANC
, . . ao.s DRS5kAS.
42 Thistle Sale 
Starts Monday; 
Subscription $2.00
The 1942 Thistle will go on sale 
to the undergraduates next Mon
day. Sales will continue till No
vember 20, and from that date on 
no subscriptions will be taken. 
Thistle salesmen will come to all 
students who live on campus and 
give them an opportunity to got 
their subscription. For those stu
dents who do not live on campus 
there will be a booth in administra
tion Hall where subscriptions will 
be sold. This booth will bo upon 
during the above period from 11:30 
till 1:30 daily. The price of this 
years book will be $2.00.
The Thistle stall hopes this year 
to include the picture of every stu
dent in the book. Quite a "low 
changes have been made over last 
years book. The candid soction 
in particular is to be enlarged and 
made more inclusive. In addition 
to this, the Senior pictures will be 
arranged alphabetically by schools, 
and group pictures of the dormi
tories are to be included.
Social Relations 
Library Opened
If you happen to be on the lower 
end of the second floor of Indus
tries and notice an arrow pointing 
to the third floor with an informa
tion plate nearby saying Social Re
lations Library  follow the ar
row. If you do, youre sure to get 
a real surprise, for here, out of 
nothing, the Administration has 
made available to the students one 
of the most modern libraries to be 
found on any campus.
The library is a godsend to those 
students who are forever complain
ing that there are no modern facil
ities for study and research here 
at Tech. With new heating equip
ment, lighting facilities that pro
vide proper illumination, and 
chairs and tables that one would 
usually only see in the Board of 
Trustees room, the Social Rela
tions Library is truly a students 
paradise.
The library, which will be open 
from 9:00 A. M. to 9:00 P. M. on 
week days and from 9:00 till noon 
on Saturdays, will have all of the 
Social Relations reference books, 
including the Maurice Falk Collec
tion on Social Studies. The refer
ence books from which Dr. Nathan 
Miller, who is the bibliographer of 
the new library, took excerpts for 
the freshman and sophomore Social 
Relations Library will be includ
ed, as well as all leading period 
icals. The present number of books 
in the room total well over 2,300, 
with several shelves still to be fill
ed.
Although the library is intended 
primarily as a Social Relations ref
erence room, the books on file 
should be of interest to students in 
all departments of the school for 
the material covers a wide variety 
of subjects. In any case, whether 
youre looking for a reference book, 
want to read some good, informa
tive magazines, or want a good place 
to study, go up to the Social Rela
tions Libraryyoure in for a treat.
N. Y. A. Notice
N. Y. A. Time Sheets are to be 
in the Employment Office 246 In
dustries by this Friday, November 7.
1GoE5FGU 
UA3hU eF9MRu
Scabbard and Blade 
Announces Pledges 
And Drill Results
The Military Ball, to be held this 
Friday, promises to1 be one of the 
most outstanding dances of the year 
in the way of entertainment. Seldom 
has there been a program contain
ing such a profusion of talent as is 
scheduled for the Ball. The dance 
will last from 9:00 P. M. till 1:00 
A. M. and is formal. AH students 
who have uniforms, however, are 
encouraged to wear them because 
of the military theme of the dance. 
Favors will be presented to all cou
ples. Tickets cost $3.30 per cou
ple and are available at the Military 
office, or from the Scabbard and 
Blade members.
Vocalists Featured 
. The feature of the evening will be 
the orchestra of Lang Thompson 
and his Tunes in the Thompson 
Tempo." Langs band is nationally 
reputed for its ability to entertain 
listeners" as well as dancers. The 
vocals will be rendered by charm
ing Peggy Nolan, and Chuck Eaton. 
Chuck got. his start by winning a 
"Gateway" to Hollywood contest; 
and receiving a movie contract in 
reward, but turned it down when 
Lang made him a more attractive 
oiler. The comedy acts are supplied 
by the inimitable "Foo Martin. 
Foo" is a drummer .who leans to 
the showmanship angle, being quite 
a comedian and also a very capable 
impersonator of such celobrltlos a.*; 
Baby Snooks, and Helen Morgan.
Lang first organized his band 
from a group of students at the 
University of Illinois and has in 
a short time built It up to a posi
tion where It now commands no 
tional network broadcasts and ap
pearances In such , hotels as Chi 
cagos Trianon and Aragon. During 
this period he has had two theme 
songs. The first, Im All Alone, 
expressed his emotional feeling that 
resulted from his 'one sided battle 
Involving school, his orchetwra, and 
working foi,\ a living. But. wh.cn . 
Lang met and fell in love with a 
girl in St. Louis, this song lost Its 
significance so he changed to You 
Darling, his present theme.
Honorary Cadet Appointments
The Ball itself is to be quite an 
affair. The. gay decorations which 
will cmbelish the Mens Gym in
clude a brilliant ceiling of plio
film. The intermission will be 
chocked full of attractions. At, 
this time the fifteen girls who* 
have been elected honorary cadet, 
colonels will be given their 
appointments in the R. O. T. C. 
corps. Following this, the coed 
cadets will take part in the formal! 
pledging of the R. O. T. C. memTS.IG.3CF S. kosC eS38
Debating Union 
Begins Program
The program for Freshman de
bating will be launched at the first 
regular meeting of the Debating 
Union which will be held today 
in room 229 B, Industries at 4:30. 
All Freshmen in the three schools 
are requested to attend the meet
ing. The only requisite is an in
terest in debating, although previ
ous experience will be helpful. At; 
the meeting, a general discussion of 
the debating program at Tech will 
be held.
All varsity members of the or
ganization are to attend thife meet
ing so that the final organization 
and policies can be decided upon.
This school year marks the third 
year of Freshman debating at Car
negie. The results of previous years 
have been so encouraging as to 
necessitate continuance of the pro
gram.
Techs debating team has been 
quite successfulin its numerous 
meets, establishing a particularly 
enviable record during the past 
year. They placed first in the 
Wetsminister, Slippery Rock, and 
Grove City debating tournaments, 
and seventh in the Grand, Eastern 
Debate Tournament at Rock Hill, 
S. C. This meet was the climax of 
an eight day trip which the team 
took through the South, stopping enroute to debate with various schools.
| On the Itocord
Today, November 4, 12:30, Room 
157, Arts, Mr. Charles A. 1?. Pear
son will supervise this phonograph 
recital:
Orchestral Suite No. 3 in D
Major .................................... Bach
London Symphony ..............Haydn
Thursday, November .0, 12:30,
Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick; Dor
ian, as requested by the students, 
will be in charge of this perform
ance:
Symphonic Pathctique..................
..................................Tschaikowsky

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941
Defense Suffers As Country 
Approaches Entry Into War
Democracy-with its privileges and obligationsis on the defen
sive. Freedom, the inalienable right oi! man, has been brutally chal
lenged. Individual integrity and dignity have been east into discard.
The onward surge of Hitlers divisions and the continued success 
oi: his submarines is steadily forcing this country, witli maddening 
sureness, to that fearful decision WAllwith its gigantic upheaval 
of everything we hold dear. Some people maintain that the war has 
long since started for us. Others differentiate between a shooting 
war and what has happened up to date. Whatever the belief, we 
sec that the time is near when we must make our all-out decision.
Sentiment throughout the country is against a declaration of 
war. Though both President Roosevelt and Hitler have stated that 
the other country fired the first shot, it is quite apparent that who 
fires the last shot is much more important. Few can deny that con
tinued success of Hitler's submarines against our mercantile and 
naval vessels will bring about the arming of merchant ships and 
the subsequent entry into a War.
Let us suppose that we will be engaged in a war within the next 
two yearsa fair assumption. Will we be prepared? Will our de
fense production be geared to peak loads? Will we have a twoocean Navy for our first line of defense? If past performances can 
be used to-guide us in our prediction, we say*NO!
Since the inception of the defense program, we have been ham
pered by the millions who felt that now was the time to reap the 
harvests. Many people believed no emergency existed ; they felt that 
every curtailment of consumers goods was not really necessary. 
Their support of the defense effort was passive. The unions saw in 
the emergency the opportunity to realize their demands, for they 
were an essential cog in defense. Stoppage of work for all causes 
ranging from wage disputes and closed shop to firing of union em> is cost us millions of hours of useful and necessary produc
to strikes were justified ; just as many were not. Hundreds of 
iiirred which did not arouse public interest because they 
aiocL u;ily a small proportion of the workers at the time. But, 
the total number of working hours lost by these small groups runs 
into the millions.
As Benjamin Franklin said : The taxes are indeed very heavy, 
and if those laid by the government were the only ones we had to 
pay, we might more easily discharge them; but we have many others' 
much more grievous to some of us. We are taxed twice as much by 
our idleness; three times as much by our pride, and four times as 
much by our folly; and from these taxes the commissioners cannot 
ease or deliver us by allowing an abatement.
And it will be our folly and our idleness that shall make us 
suffer. What good will increased wages do the workers if they and 
their sons do not have the equipment to fight in case of War? Will 
the closed shop and the satisfaction of having ones way now be 
enough to protect the soldiers, the destroyers, the bombers? Will it 
matter if the AFL or CIO runs the union in a plant when union 
members man the defenses of our nationthe battleships, the anti
aircraft guns, and the tanks?
Industry must accept its share of the blame for the countless 
obstructions which have arisen in our defense preparation. Red tape 
:in productive activity, must be eliminated. Non-defense industry 
arid commerc 'must conserve the resources. Exploitationof the peo
ple should be Stppcd. Prices go up in a vicious spiral. Everyone 
objectsprices go higher. The feeble efforts that have been made 
to curtail inflation are to no avail. Workers get increases in wages 
because large profits are being made; food, shelter, clothing, and 
luxuries go a bit higher. Taxes are raised. Workers want more 
wages. Strikes delay production; losses mount; wages increase; 
prices climb faster. Government attempts to halt the spiral have 
Failed because .little effort has been made to attack the problem at 
its source.
. Many people scoff at the possibility of War ; others becohu* 
almost fanatic in their efforts to bring home the nearness of it. The 
continued bickering back and forth has disrupted public confidence 
and morale. People today are confused by the many issues at hand. 
Vo a result defense suffers. Harold Laski, professor of Political 
Science at the University of London and a member of many govern
ment committees summed up the situation aptly when he said:
"The main causes of the drift of our civilization to a disaster 
is the easy belief that nt tlio eleventh hour some magic way of relief 
will be discovered. War is always unthinkable before it occurs; so 
\v avoid the need to deal with the permanent roots of war. Men 
always achieve disaster by not preparing against its approach, and 
then comfort themselves after it has come by proving its inevitabil
ity. Yet, there are no inevitabilities in history; there are only causes 
and effects which we may seek to alter by dragging their incidence 
to the light of day.
Commendation
Wo pause in our wanderings to twenty minutes of the hour for picVommencl a sister publication, the lure taking. This was usually conTHISTLE, tor the improvement sumed by endless waiting for the
shown in the handling of senior event  to take place. When the
pictures. It is a fine example of .proofs were finally received, many
what can be done to better camof them were unsatisfactory and
pus conditions by a dissatisfied had to be retaken,
group who are not content to let This year the appointments are 
sleeping dogs lie. going according to schedule and picLast year senior pictures were lure-talcing is a painless and almost 
taken in a downtown studio. Stutimeless operation. The proofs
dents who have one hour between already obtained have invariably 
classes for their appointment very pleased their owner. We feel that
often found that this was not the THISTLE staff deserves an
enough. The twenty minute ride orchid making these changes when
downtown and back again left only they were badly needed. J. O. T.
EkG.GS.A Clk8CAACF G. IRC kosCA Se IRC D4tD4b o8C IRSAC Se IRC 5C5c
hC8A Se IRC AIoeeu G. IRC MoAC Se IRC CFGIS8Go1 MS135. IRCB o8C IRSAC Se IRC 
OFGIS8U DRCB o8C .SI IS hC MS.AI83CF oA .CMCAAo8G1B IRC SkG.GS.A Se CGIRC8 
IRC AI3FC.I hSFB S8 IRC eoM31IBU(Fartiecjic STartau
Cameffie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER -<!<>" PHONE SCHENLEY 4RB7
KEPNVanNTED FOR NATIONAL ADVUHTlalNG 11V . .. TT _ ,,
National Advertising Service. Inc. _... f' nice Ho Ca1
College Publishers Representative Editor-In-Chief......... SClienley 9070
Vol Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager . .. HAzel 3808lo.35N8 C Boston  tos ANELea  A5R EG5o3.A38 dvertlsinff Manager. .SClienley )9>>
Entered as seooml-olass matter in the Pittsburgh Post Oftlce uiuler the Act of 
March 8, 18711.
Published weekly (luring school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price SI. 10 per year.
OFmIUS8wG.wTRGCe .................................................................................... io31 VSACA
P3AG.CAA Vo.osC8....................................................................no88B 4h8o5SYGIy
Vo.osG.s OFGIS8.......................................................................WSo..C D1AR1o8GMR
bCHA OFGIS8.................................................................................Po8ho8o r8o5C8
4AAGAIo.I Vo.osG.s OFGIS8.......................................................LG1hC8IU rGYC.AS.
TSkB OFGIS8..........................................................................VC8MCFCA T3..G.sRo5
TSkB OFGIS8..................................................................................pRB11GA P.MR5o.
ikS8IA OFGIS8.........................................................................................mSM DRS5oA
4FYC8IGAG.s Vo.osC8...............................................................iB1Yo. tSAC.eGC1F
TG8M31oIGS. Vo.osC8..................................................................iGF.CB LChC1SH
iIoee 48IGAI..........................................................................................O11GSII DGSC8B
ikS8IA pRSISs8okRC8........................................................................TRo81CA C. MG1
P3AG.CAA iIoeeg ,CC 4.FC11of DCF bGM8C.hC8sf i3..B ao.FC85o.f DCF
P38IGAf VB8S. do.FC8f WC88B WoMShAU
W3.GS8 OFGIS8Ag poIu O15o.f aCS.o8F TRSIG.C8f tShC8I ,GlS.f PG11 rG.sf
WCo..C rG.sf Vo8Go..o nSssf do1IC8 no11C8f WoMv iRS8Cf VC1 i.BFC8-U 
tCkS8IC8Ag nC1C.o 48S.AS.f io5 TS11GC8Af do1I ,o8hBf WCo. ,oYGFAS.f 
no1 ,GMvAS.f LC88B OFC1AS.f WG5 LCGAIf TRo81CA LSCR8G.sf OF LS1Fc
AICG.f io31 L8CC5Yo1Ff DU WU no85S.Bf t3IR no.AU W3.CU r.GAvC8., 
TR8GAIG.CU ao TRG5GofU O1oG.C aCYG.f PG11 a1SBFf iB1YGo VG11C8f boIo1GC 
.. boIRo.f 41 pJA13Ay-.Bf PSh pSs3C, VoFC1G.C tShhG.Af aS3GAC io31f 
W3FB ivCCRo.U tCo iG5S.f P3F DCGMR5o.f ,S. doIvG.Af ,S.. ,8ovCU
one of the girlscGEEGFU aA a,G mIREAF
. , LC8I83FC NCGA.C8
Better known as Fuzzy to her 
friends and those who are not so 
fortunate as to rate themselves in 
that category, Gertrude Feisner has 
the reputation of being a B. W. O.
C. A senior secretarial student in. 
Maggy Murph, she is President 
of Mortar Boardone of the high
est honors any girl can receive at 
Tech and one which at present is 
a big worry to her. She is an 
active member of the Gamma Phi 
Sigma sorority; in fact, she wants 
us to put in a plug for it by setting 
its name up in bold type.
Fuzzy is now spending what 
spare lime she has working for 
Miss Glendon, head of the House
hold Economics department. Now 
that the concert season has started, 
she will also usher at the Syria 
Mosque. At present she has no  
definite plans for the future, only 
the hope that shell find a good job 
after she graduates.
Eating is one of Fuzzys pet 
pastimes. She has the reputation 
for having a good appetite and any
thing that can be classed as food 
she goes for in a big way. As for 
sportswell, Fuzzy is an ardent 
golf fiend. She just loves the game,' 
and one of her greatest ambitions 
is to break 100 . . . eventually! 
Bowling also occupies her time 
now and then, but golf is still her 
first love . . . when it comes to 
sports!
When asked about the men in 
her life, Fuzzy simply replied, 
There arent enough men in my 
life. Plenty of good men, but not
enough. The fellows at Tech must 
be slipping, if they can pass lip 
that brown hair and those plaid 
eyesplaid, Fuzzy says, because 
they never stay any definite color.
Shes very much in favor of 
Fall Carnivals and would like them 
to be an annual feature at Tech. 
Her pet peeve is arriving at movies 
in the middle of the feature pic
ture. Many is the time,' Fuzzy 
said, that Ive kept my date inthe 
lobby waiting for the show to end. 
Most of all, shed like to see better 
relations between the students and 
faculty. She hopes that in the near 
future, the faculty will get to know 
the student body better, and in this 
way promote a more understand
ing relationship between the two. 
Were all for it, Fuzzy!
Council Minutes
Absent: Messrs. Bosak, ShofTncr, Moormnn, Fisher, and Frey, and Misses Jones, 
Leister, Whitney, and Beall.
Mr. Burton moved that the references In 
tlio minutes of the preceding meeting con
cerning the benefit performance to be held 
for the StefTen Fund be stricken from the 
record.
Motion carried,
The minutes were approved as corrected.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Social
Mr. Burton presented a petition from In
ternational Relations Club asking that Stu
dent Council approve an appropriation of 
S25 to send a representative to the regional 
conference. Mr. McBride moved that the 
appropriation be granted.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Kritscher reported that the President 
of Freshman Engineering had protested his 
ineligibility because he had gone through 
Freshman Regulations in another college. 
Mr. Wines stated that any candidate for 
any Freshman olTlce was required to pass 
the Traditions Exam. Mr. Breswick said 
that he believed Mr. Reese had not taken 
the exam because of a inisundeVstandlng, 
and he had taken the exam when he was 
informed that it was necessary. Mr. Bres
wick moved that Mr. John Reese be de
clared eligible to hold the olllcc of Presi
dent of the Freshman Class. The fresh
man oUlcers would then be approved as 
originally elected.
Motion carried.
Mr. Kritscher asked permission to hold a 
special election on Tuesday, November 4, 
to make a choice of bands for Spring Car
nival and to take a vote on whether the 
students would rather have four days of 
Carnival and one less day of Spring Vaca
tion, or leave the Spring Vacation as It 
Is and have three clays of Carnival. He 
moved that the election be hold.
Motion carried.
Assemblies
Mr. Satterfield announced that a Student 
Council assembly, at which 'movies will be 
shown, will be held on Tuesday, Novem
ber -I.
Orientation
Mr. Wines reported that Freshman Tra
ditions re-exams wore held, and as every
one has not yet passed, another re-exam 
will be scheduled.
Old lliislness
Mr. Breswick suggested that the Chair
man of the Orientation Committee become 
more fully acquainted with tlio rulings 
a fleeting transfer students.
New Business
Mr. Burton reported that the members 
of Della Skull would like Councils per
mission to buy activities keys for tlio mem
bers of their honorary if they make sulRclent profit on the Junior Prom. Mr. Bur
ton said that lie felt the Scimitars should 
be given the same provision, and he moved 
that the members of Delta Skull and the 
members of the Scimitar Society be al
lowed to take enough from the profits of 
the Junior Prom and the Sophomore Hop 
to buy standard keys for each member. 
Miss LoefTlcr protested that the Cwens 
should be given an equal amount from the 
profits of the Sophomore Hop if anything 
is given to the Scimitars. Mr. Burton ex
plained that no money would be taken 
from the profits unless there were enough 
to. buy a key for each member, and it is 
not likely that enough would be made on 
the Sophomore Hop to buy each Scimitar 
his key and give an equal amount to the 
Cwens. He withdrew his former motion 
and moved that the Delta Skulls be allowed 
to take enough from the profits of the 
Junior Prom to buy standard keys for each member.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wines explained that the Kiltie Band 
is badly in need .of new spats as they 
are going to make a trip to Cincinnati, 
where they will be seen publicly and would 
like to make a good appearance. He 
moved that Council appropriate $100 to 
buy new spats for the Kiltie Band. Mr 
McBride announced that the Band has a 
surplus in its account that will cover this 
amount. Mr. Hill asked if any effort will 
he made to make up this amount. Mr. 
Wines said that a better date has been 
chosen for the Band Concert, and they 
make more money thisthink they 
year.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
DOROTHY PIPER.
Secretary.
tGMRo8F T8SSvA 
TS5CA IS VSA3C
The coming of Richard Crooks is 
cm event that is anticipated with 
the keenest pleasure, as it will mark 
his first recital engagement at the 
Syria Mosque. Mr. Crooks comes 
by popular request as the second 
event in the May-Beegle series on 
Wednesday evening, November 5.
In addition to his programmed 
numbers, he will include, by re
quest, as extra numbers, la Reve 
from the opera Manon, and Inter
mezzo from the opera Cavalliera 
Rusticana. He will be assisted 
by FrederickSchauwecker" in a. 
group of piano numbers.
Washed Out
ROTC Map-Makers 
Suffer From Rain
By Walter Darby
Someone once wrote a song about 
singing in the rain, but Techs R.
O. T. C. men just cant conjure up 
that sort of feeling about the heavy 
precipitation. Its map-making time 
again in the soldier ranks, and rain 
is definitely a drawback to good 
grades.
Probably everyone noticed, sev
eral weeks ago, that there were a 
. lot of students standing in the mid
dle of the street and' getting in 
places which inconvenienced others. 
That time they were just making 
ai map of the block around Fine 
A'rts, and Mother Nature smiled 
on their efforts.
But now they have to cover the 
entire area around Flagstaff Hill, 
and an unobliging weatherman 
started right in by tossing up a few 
impedimenta. The first day it was 
cold, and the wind was so great 
that the improvised plumb lines, 
used to get angles, were blown all 
out of whack. There werent 
enough wind-proof instruments to 
go around, and some groups were 
left out in the cold.
But clinometersthe wind-proof 
instruments just mentionedmay 
be traded between groups. And, sure 
enough, just as soon as the boys 
were getting these instruments 
came warmer weather  and the 
rains. One eant make maps in 
the rain, because the paper gets 
wet and wrinkled. For lack of any
thing better to do, one desperate 
group even tried to run the course 
while the rains poured down upon 
them, but no use. Even pioneer 
spirit is of little avail when wet 
paper refuses to receive the lead 
from a pencil.
At this writing there seems to be 
little hope for these groups, except 
that Mother Nature has a change of 
heart. In the meantime, it looks as 
though certain R. O. T. C. sophs 
would have a very high fudge fac
tor.
Prose Contest 
Open To Tecliites
CONTEMPORARY BOOKS has 
announced its first annual contest 
for Pittsburgh authors. Prose or 
poetry, fiction or non-fiction, may 
be submitted in the competition, 
as long as the manuscript is limit
ed to 2,500 words.
All entries should be submitted 
anonymously to CONTEMPORARY 
BOOKS, 440 Wood Street, Pitts
burgh, by November 18. Sealed en
velopes containing the writers 
name and address should accom
pany the manuscripts. They will be 
judged by a jury of competent 
Pittsburgh writers and critics first, 
and then read to CONTEMPORARY 
BOOKS, Sunday evening audience 
for the final choice by popular vote 
on November 23.
The first prize in prose will be 
five dollars worth of any books the 
contestant may choose. First prize 
in poetry will be the same.
Citmas Club Meets
Citmas Club Will hold a dinner 
meeting and election of officers in 
the Faculty Dining Room 5:30 P. 
M., Monday, November 10th. Tick
ets are available from T. O. Lamplis; cashiers office, and F. M. Keck, 
Administration Building.
Editor:
A few weeks ago there appeared 
in these columns a letter deploring 
the antedated state of buildings 
on the Carnegie campus. The cor
respondent went on to protest the 
lack of improvements and additions 
to the campus .plant, citing cases to 
the point. I wish to present the 
argument that not only are the 
buildings kept in a constant state 
. of repair, but also improvements 
are continually 'being made as the 
budget of the Building and Grounds 
department permits.
Because students do not see re
pair work going on all about them 
during the course of the school year, 
they are prone to assume that the 
buildings are being neglected and 
that improvements are not being 
made. When school is out of ses
sion, however, during the Christmas 
and summer vacations, intensive 
work is being done.
To site one specific case, there 
is hardly an engineer who has not 
commented favorably on the new 
Social Relations Library, surely one 
of the most comfortable and useful 
of recent improvements. In the 
same wing of Industries Hall, a 
suite of classrooms, seminars, and 
offices has transformed what was 
once the electric shop into pleasant 
and stimulating surroundings. An
other wing of Industries Hall has 
been converted from a welding 
shop into a suite of mathematics 
classrooms. These changes were 
made during this past summer.
The classrooms are always well 
lighted and their walls are freshly 
painted to promote ideal study con
ditions. Washrooms, are continual
ly being modernized, to the point 
where they compare favorably with 
any public washrooms in the city.
Secretarial students will testify 
that their classrooms and laborator
ies on the fourth floor of Margaret 
Morrison are ideal for comfortable 
and ideal study.
Dormitory students see every day 
the material results of the program 
being carried on by the Building 
and Grounds department. Womens 
dorms are -constantly being sup
plied with new desks, dressers, and 
closets for bedrooms and tasteful 
furnishings for living rooms.
Those of us who have not been 
present to observe the development 
of buildings and grounds during re
cent years are unaware of the ex
tensive improvements which have 
been made in the mens dorms. 
Every one of them has been thor
oughly reconditioned, one or two at 
a time according to a well co-or
dinated and efficient program.
Having cited all of these im
provements, I believe that I> have 
dispelled, in some measure at least,
the rather prevalent belief that our 
building and grounds are being 
left to gather rust, dust, and tradi
tions. Many of us are so pre
occupied with our studies that we 
fail to notice the continual transi
tion that our environment is going 
through, and form our opinions on 
the basis of insignificant incidents 
which may annoy us temporarily.* * *
Editor:
In one of your frequent refer
ences to life at Tech, you advised 
the Student body to take the broad 
view of college life and realize that 
the world is not centered about 
Forbes Street and Schenley Park. 
There are some few who have the 
microcosmic view of the globe, but 
they are a microcosmic minority. 
Blame for this condition which 
might tritely be called appalling 
does not lie completely on the TAR
TANS doorstep, but the TARTAN 
certainly has not used its ample fa
cilities for attempting to correct it.
Most college newspapers have a 
news column in which foreign 
news is digested, local news pre
sented, and opinion and attitudes 
discussed critically. Frequent ed
itorials appear in which the news
paper lays down an editorial pol
icy that consists of more than keep
ing the school clean. It certain
ly wouldnt be a Herculean task to 
run a column like this and there 
certainly is enough precedent for it.
Lack of interest in rational in
ternational affairs is evidenced 
among the Student body by the 
small turnout to the newly form
ed mens discussion group. Clubs 
sUch' as 'this are important in dis
pelling the apathetic attitudes that 
predominate here, but a few edi
torials on controversial subjects is 
what is really needed. TAJtTAN 
does not need to mold public opin
ion, merely stimulate it, and not 
by constantly saying think, but 
'by giving the student body some
thing to think about.
TARTAN has a Letters to the 
Editor column in which students 
can express then* views on social 
or political ideas. Numerous issues 
have come out and the only views 
the students have are on our weak 
sports records. This column will 
never go beyond that unless the 
TARTAN staff takes the initiative. 
Things are moving.quickly in the 
world about us, philosophies are be
ing reorganized, and all the TAR
TAN says is that we need a new 
center walk.
The inadequacy of the TARTAN 
in this particular instance has been 
noted by many people, and this 
complaint is as much their^s-as it is 
mine.
STUDE.
MosqueNext Wednesday livening:, Nov. 5, Americas Favorite TenorRICHARD CROOKS
Request numbers promised from Manon, "Tosca, and "Cavalliera Rusticana
MosqueTuesday Evening-, Nov. 11Third May-Beegle Concert
DON COSSACKS Tomorrow
"HOLD THAT LINE!
Arrow shirts go the whole 
day long without a sub. 
In the Arrow backfield is 
Hitt, a line white broad
cloth shirt that is allAmerican in its longwearing and non-wilting 
constitution. Cut to fit 
your torso and Sanforizedshrunk (fabric shrinkage 
less than x?U Get Hitt 
today! $2.
ARROW SHIR.
4ttEd nO4,064tDOti
GBEEM BROTHERS
440 Wood StreetDowntown

---------------------------------------------------

ISTUOo
Forbes and Oakland Avenues 
NEaaEd DnO TtEd, DE 
DnO PODij tEii
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY 10 REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS DANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MKMIIKn rKDKIIAL DKPOOIT IMBUnANCK 
conronATioM
WHY GO TO ALL 
THIS TROUBLE?
TRY THE
Omawi 4eww 
am8 4eeV
1nS 1e4 a.m Smy 8SW 
a.m ecW
OYC8B iI3FC.I O.mSBA
a.m y8w.DSkaeS 
rpm44igkfg4fnSW
ISLYS
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
FLOWEES
for the 
Military BallJ
Ami All 
Oilier Occasions 
....-...AT-----
HUROLD'S
FLOWER SHOP
NEW LOCATION 
OLIVER AVENUE
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941VHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
With IRC eSSIho11 FCC5kRoAGA k8Ss8o5 it eo11 AHG.s IRC rG1IGC Po3Ff 
ARSH. ohSYC, is IRC 5oG. oII8oMIGS. oI IRC AIoFG35 IRCAC FoBAU
a,G dRMERG Oo3Ivw9,AAMhU VAUE 
n3UGMtRU, wE5IG3E eFHo3R-oERA3
News itemthe Kiltie Band will 
make the trip to Cincinnati this 
week'to 'play atthe Tech-Cinciiinati 
Football game.
Most 'students, if they were to 
read a news item like the one 
above, pass on to some other story 
in the 'paper and soon forget that 
they had ever read anything about 
the band. This is so because most 
of us'take the Kilties for an ac
cepted fact and never stop to think 
what a large part of our college life 
here at Tech would be missing if 
there were no band.
At a football 'game'we see them 
going through some complicated ma
neuver which may only take up 
five minutes and never realize the 
hours of practice and concentra
tion which went into such a ma
neuver. We see them at the. pep 
rallies dressed in their unique uni
forms, and scarcely notice them. 
This story, then, is for the Kiltie 
Band-the most unselfish student 
organization on the campus.
Lets look behind the scenes and 
see what goes on in the prepara
tion for Saturdays trip. Practices 
are held twice a week, from seven 
oclock until eleven or twelve, de
pending on how well the boys do in 
the practice sessions. Previous to 
the rehearsals, Paul Wines, the 
Drum' Major, who is in charge of 
drills and' marching,' has,- spent many 
an hour figuring out the maeuvers and seeing that each man gets 
to his position quickly and smooth
ly. Then each member of the 
Band must get a mimeographed 
copy of the manuever and then re
hearsals are the order of the even
ing until everything is letter per
fect.
Meanwhile, Art Steele, the man
ager of the Band has been corres
ponding with the Cincinnati Band,
finding out what their songs are 
and the entrances and size of the 
Cincinnati Stadium. He has also ' 
been taking care of all transporta
tion plans and sleeping quarters 
for the eighty band members.
Jack Evans is checking on the 
equipment during rehearsals, and 
will have to worry about getting 
all of the instruments on and off the 
train and seeing that none of the 
boys lose any part of their uni
form behind them, or drop a pair 
of drum sticks along the way.
The Kiltie Band gets no. money 
foiJ all of tHis,: in fact, they re
ceive no appropriations at all except 
a very small budget allowance at 
the beginning of the year from 
Student Council.
In order to? buy new spats for the 
Band, a special request had to be 
made to student Council for a spec
ial appropriation. Almost all of their 
funds are derived from the Kiltie 
Band Concert, which they hold in 
the spring of each year. And when 
they try to sell the students a tick
et, costing 25 cents, to the Concert, 
they usually get an evasive reply.
Twenty-five cents from each stu
dent seems to be a pretty low 
price to have a top rate band like 
the Kilties doesnt it?
Trinks Gaius Honor
Professor Trinks, head of the de
partment of Mechanical Engineer
ing, has recently been appointed a 
member of the Research Procedure 
Committee of the Engineering 
Foundation. He is also a member 
of the main Research Committee of 
the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers, besides the Shell Forg
ing Committee, the Rolling Mill 
Committee, and the Heat Transfer 
Committee of the same society.
Tech Printers 
Attend U. T. A. 
Chicago Meeting
Carnegies Printing Department 
had forty representatives at' the 
dinner held in their honor by the 
members of the United Typothetae 
of America in Chicago last Monday 
evening. The occasion was the 
opening of the printing organiza
tions fifty-fifth annual convention 
and was attended by the Tech men 
and the officers and directors of 
the U. T. A.
The Tech delegation was headed 
by Printing Department head Glenn 
U. Cleeton and consisted of Cleo 
Bateman, Dave Ellis, Ray McKin
ney, and John Taylor.
The principal event of the con
vention was the presentation of a 
newly developed Management 
Control and Cost Accounting Sys
tem. Tech graduates played a 
major part in the organization of 
this plan which is to go into na
tional use. It was developed by 
H. Brooks Ely, . Printing 37 and 
he became head of the TypotKetaes 
committee for servicing this new 
plan. Alix Ditler, Printing 23 and 
Sam Weil 27 served on the Advi
sory committee.
Diplomats Speak 
At Y Meeting
Three Pan-American diplomats 
will address an assembly sponsored, 
by the Young Mens and Young 
Womens Christian Associations 
next Tuesday, at 4:30 in the Stu
dent Union. The Womens His
torical Society has brought the 
three South American representa
tives to Pittsburgh in accordance 
with its good will policy.
Dr. Gregg is chairman of the lo
cal Y committee sponsoring 
Senor Don Abelardo Silva, Secre
tary of the Chilean Embassy, Gus
tavo Oritz Herman, Mexican Con
sulate, and Senor Rafael de la Colina, Consul General of Mexico. 
These three will have a timely 
message for the student body, and 
everyone is urged to come.
Cleeton, Pitkin 
Write New Text
Mr. Glenn U. Cleeton, head of 
Techs Printing Department and 
Professor Charles Pitkins new 
book, GENERAL PRINTING, arriv
ed at School at the end of last 
week. This experimental edition 
is designed for use as a text in 
junior and senior high schools. The 
students here at school will use it 
as a reference book.
The book presents something new 
in the field of text books in that it 
is fifty per cent pictures and fifty 
per cent material. The photographs 
were taken by Professors Sterling 
and Pitkin on the Tech campus. Mr. 
Cleeton has said that this is the 
first time that the fundamental 
steps of printing have been dem
onstrated by photograhpic pro
cedure. In order to do this, it was 
practically necessary to make a slovy 
motion study of these printing tech
nicalities.
This text was written with these 
definite objectives in mind: an at
tempt. to give students an idea of 
what printing is like; the sociai 
significance of the trade; a general 
cultural history; and an idea of how 
printing ranks in industry.
Thistle Notice
All students who have gone out 
for the Thistle Staff should report 
to the Thistle office in the Student 
Union this Friday at 4:30. At this 
time subscription books for the sale 
of underclass yearbooks will be 
distributed.
College 
Cniulids ...
School Daze
Class M3IIG.s oI bU jU U. ts a 5osc
.GeGMC.I ShACAAGS. HGIR S.C 5os.GeGc
MC.IClMCkIGS.U A AI3FC.I e1CH 
e8S5 TRGMosS IS 5ovC o. oeIC8.SS. 
M1oAA G. mS38.o1GA5U dGAC advice 
e8S5 bU jU 6U iMGC.MC ,Mk$I GA vCCk 
oHoB e8S5 A1SI 5oMRG.CAU OlIC.AGYC 
ICAIA ARSH S.1B S.C RGI kC8 IRS3c
Ao.FU bS o.o1SsGCA HC8C F8oH. IS 
kG.who11 5oMRG.CAU
Roll Out The Barrel
For a night class at Pitt a few 
weeks ago came a gentleman with 
too much beer on his breath. Every 
few minutes he would stand up and 
shout, Down With Hitler! Down 
with Stalin and all the Bolsheviks! 
As the effervescent lad was led 
away he kept muttering, I didnt 
say nothing. I am the descendant 
of the first governor of New Jer
sey. Finally in tears he walked 
out crying, Honest, I didnt say 
nothing.
Strictly Yerboten
College Library at Brooklyn Col
lege, participatng in the Defense 
Day Program, prepared a graphic 
display of life under totalitarianism 
from the bibliothecal point of view. 
This exhibit 'consists of scores of 
books, all of which are now out
lawed in Germany.
Fire! Fire!
F & M College staged a spon
taneous row-bottom in place of 
its prohibited pajama parade. Be
cause of the yearly noise and traffic 
tie-up, police forbade any demon
stration this year,, but they didnt 
 reckon with the temperament of 
the Diplomats; With bonfires 
glowing the length of the campus, 
the students taunted the police with 
I Dont Want to Set the World on 
Fire, I just want to give it a hot
foot. The frolic went a bit farther 
than expected, and several students 
ended up in the calaboose.
Present Arms!
National Defense is a mighty 
serious business at California U., 
considering the care given the old 
1903 Springfield rifles by the U. 
cadets. While a R. O. T. C. unit 
was beating an orderly retreat from 
the rain, a cadet tripped over a root 
and fell flat on the ground. Imme
diately a student officer appeared 
and, completely unconcerned with 
the fallen man, yelled, Quick, 
plclc up that rifle!
Yea Hitler
Maybe there is something to 
thank Adolf H. and his playmates 
for, after all. This fall, for the 
first time since John W. (Bet a 
Million) Gates founded the school 
in 1909, Port Arthur (Texas) Col
lege is permitting coeds to attend 
classes bare-legged. Because of 
government-confiscated silk  sup
plies, college authorities decided to 
rescind the traditional ruling that 
campus legs must be covered. 
Hooray For What?
Incidentally, coeds in the Shed 
Silk for Uncle Sam club at the 
University of Minnesota, believe 
theirs was the first of its kind to 
be organized. Purpose of the club 
is to convince campus women that 
the army needs parachutes worse 
than girls need silk stockings.
Peace, Its Wonderful
Paying his tuition at University 
of Cincinnati college of law with 
102 silver dollars, a student ex
plained that the money came from 
his sideline as a justice of the peace.
,C.YC8 iI3FC.I 
dG.A NC11SGYARGk
The Department of Civil Engi
neering has recently been awarded 
aStructural Steel Research Fellow
ship by the Welding Research Com
mittee of the Engineering Founda
tion. This fellowship is financed 
by the American Institution of Steel 
Construction, by the steel industry, 
the Bureau of Yards and Docks of 
the U. S. Navy, and by the Amer
ican Society of Civil Engineers.
Mr. Harry Brenman of -Denver, 
Colorado, has been awarded the fel
lowship. He will devote one-half 
of his time to an investigation set 
by the Welding Research Committee 
and one-half of his time to a Mas
ters Degree program in Civil En
gineering.
Research Tells
WFu 1FA9,E yFREGU 1RFUE 
OAAP e3 Js,AEAGMoUER9REb
Americas first book on photo
elasticity was published August .15, 
by Dr. Frocht, Associate Professor 
of Mechanics at Carnegie Tech.
Photoelasticity, the title of the 
book, is the outgrowth of over ton 
years of work. With few excep
tions it is based entirely on the re
searches carried on by Dr. Frocht 
and his assistants in the Photo
elasticity Laboratory. The labor
atory and special equipment, designed by Dr. Frocht, was opened 
in 1932 for research and instruc
tion on this subject. Volume one 
which on the main is confined to
Questionnaire On 
Gripes Made Up
Intel-honorary Fraternity Council 
recently has started a study of the 
teaching and educational program 
at Tech with the view of getting 
the faculty and the student body in
terested in promoting better edu
cational methods. .^Vithin a week 
or so Interhonorary Council will 
distribute a questionnaire among 
\ ^
BS
the students in order to get tlipir 
ideas on such moot questions as 
comprehensive examinations, in
formal discussion classes, non-compulsory attendance at lectures, and 
4:30 classes.
Council now wants you, the stu
dent, to help by making up this 
questionnaire. If you have any 
suggestions, any gripesnot per
sonal, but ones that really could be 
improved uponwrite them on a 
piece of paper and drop them In 
any one of the gripe boxes which 
will be put up in Engineering Hall, 
Industries, Fine Arts, and Margaret 
Morrison. The success of this 
venture depends upon you, sp if 
you want a more progriifcisive pro
gram at Techcooperate and fill 
those boxes!
Symphony Concert
For its fifth pair of concerts on 
Friday evening, November 7, and 
Sunday afternoon, November 9, at 
Syria Mosque, the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra under the baton ol 
Fritz Reiner will play Moussorgskys A Night on Bald Mountain," 
Prokofieff's Peter and the Wolf, 
Debussys "Iberia, and the Berlioz 
Rakoczy March.
Richard Hale, who is widely 
known as an actor and as a singer, 
has been engaged by the Pitsburgh 
Symphony Soeiey as a narrator for 
this work. Mr. Hale introduced 
Peter and the Wolf in Boston, 
and later recorded the work with 
the Boston Symphony under Dr. 
Koussevitsky.
Mr. Hale is also well known as a 
baritone on the concert and oper
atic stage. In the last year alone 
he has appeared in six differ
ent well-known productions bear
ing witness to his Versatility.
two dimensional stresses is com
plete with the latest theoretical 
methods. The photographs of 
Frozen Stress Patterns which pro
vide the bone method for three 
dimensional problems are one of 
the many interesting features of 
the book.
For years machine designers and 
manufacturers have been faced with 
the fact that machines designed on 
the basis of simple elementary 
formulas of nominal stresses have 
continued to fail, even when the 
designers strictly adhere to the 
specifications. Research workers 
have found that these failures are 
not due to the workmanship, but 
are due to faulty design. By means 
of photoelasticity these maximum 
or critical stresses can be deter
mined more accurately and at 
smaller cost than by any other 
method.
To perform a photoelasticity test 
a small model is made of trans
parent plastic. Then the model is 
placed in a polarized beam of light 
which produces a unique pattern 
from which the stress can be cal
culated. Most of the photoelastic 
tests have been made with plastic 
transparent models, but Dr. Frocht 
has been working with solid steel 
models from which he is able to 
get a stress pattern.
Dr. Frocht obtained his doctors 
and bachelors degrees at the Uni
versity oC Michigan while his 
earlier education was received 
abroad. Since 1930, he lias been 
working on photoelasticity. Dr. 
Frocht has taught this subject to 
faculty members from Yale, Prince
ton, Cornell, and many other insti
tutions as well as engineers from 
various companies. Ills volume Is 
used as a text book for graduate 
courses at night as well as for ad
vanced under-graduate courses 
which are for day students taking 
this subject as an elective.
At the present time Dr. Frocht 
is working on three dimensional 
stresses and is writing a second 
volume on Photoelasticity which 
will expand and complete the ad
vanced phases. This book will be 
published In the near future.
Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality.
You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again I 
you enjoy the charm of its delicious taste...and its cool, 
clean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks noth
ing more.
OTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 5Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA. You trust its quality
Let's go to

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941
Today rY
, ijtItNR
 '"rev *1^*
Utx?
OoS FHVL
^lipstick Fantasy
By Jack
Those large archways in front of 
the Arts School look impressive 
from a distance, but as one ap
proaches, they look more like some 
cubistic form of Dadaism. Dadaism 
as you will no doubt recall is the 
form of art that is interpretable 
only to the artist. Five of the ma
jor arts are listed above the niches 
in no particular order. Architec
ture, which is above the doorway, 
and one of the others could be 
called complete. The rest whether 
Dadaism . or anything el.se look 
simply unfinished. What started 
out to be an oriental temple is en
cased in the other finished one, but 
the impressive untouched three 
have nothing but huge blocks of 
stone frtrewn about in a not unpleasing manner. Many objets 
dart could .easily be found that 
might adorn the niches, but the ad
ministration is probably waiting 
until something really worthwhile 
comesout of the art school. It 
must be a good point in the Art 
School blurbs to call it a finishing 
school but the impression is get
ting around that it is the art stu
dents that are unfinished.
 Someone else has just found a 
pearl in an oyster. For years So
cial Workers have been worried 
about the oyster shelters down 
south. Their lives and conditions 
are pretty much the same as the 
western fruit pickers of Grapes 
of Wrath fame. And do they ever 
find pearls while shelling the stuff? 
But just walk down to the corner 
restaurant and order a dish of the, 
seafood and see if you can enjoy 
your repast with all .the pearls 
.bouncing against your teeth. Minor 
irritations such as this are worth 
the trouble they give. Evaluation 
of .the gem was. one thousand dol
lars, and I would advise the gour
met to exchange the pearl; for the 
fish before it turns black. If I 
were ever to go pearl hunting, I 
would certainly never try explor
ing any oceans; you can get better 
odds at any eatery when the oys
ters are in season.
Girls hockey games look awfully 
dull from the point of view of 
action. The, lassies slug the ball, 
start running, and then the whistle 
blows. A halt is called, they line 
up and the same thing over again. 
Spectators, which consist mostly of 
'boys, complain about .the lack of 
movement among the femmes.
Shore
They get no exercise chortles the 
little lads, but rumor has it that 
their interest is not purely ob
jective. The green and red clad 
MMs look nice on the playing field,' 
but the purpose of the game 'is not 
to decorate the cut. Senior fencers 
are going to stop coming around if 
they have to look at Stepinfetchit 
statuettes.
Everyone cant be in the army, 
and yet it seems that everyone is. 
Instead" of .calling up my friends 
and boring them with conversation^
I now write them letters for which 
I am heartily thanked; the sub
stance of which is exactly similar 
to that they suffered here. Its a 
nice way of keeping your friends; 
just put them in the army. Last 
year a song like From Taps to 
Reveijle ^vould evoke fond memor
ies of the' little friend who joined. 
But now you start running through 
the list of your , army friends when 
the, song starts, and you finish on 
the third or fourth chorus. Some
how the distribution of acquaint
ances gives you a personal touch 
with the country, and my contribu
tion of dear friends to the service 
makes me feel as though I am do
ing my part.
Hobgoblins and witches had their 
day last Friday, and now the stu
dents are complaining about being 
surrounded by them on, the cam
pus. Whether they are referring to 
the coeds or the midrsemester ex
ams is not quite clear, for their pro
nouns are merely an unqualified 
she. This' year the pranks were 
the ordinary ones, the same for the 
costumes, and it seemed as though 
Halloween had become a complete
ly ordinary day that is accepted 
without fanfare.: Perhaps we ought 
to go back to a few superstitions 
and prejudices so that we can have 
a really good time. Christmas 
sounds more hopeful, but with the 
war and all who knows.
Which reminds me that buying 
luxuries' isv oneluxury I wont be 
able to enjoy this year. There 
really isnt anything that I in
tended buying that has come under 
the new tax. Usually the prices 
were too high in the first place. 
The only gruesome thought in the 
whole picture is what will happen 
to my exchequer when Christmas 
shopping rolls around. A friend in 
the Math club tells me that even 
though the tax is only ten percent 
of the old price, the old price is 
one eleventh less than the new one. 
Which makes me think that were 
getting a bargain in rates, but Im 
hot sure.
ARRIER
YOU may never have heard of a K carrier 
circuit, but it lias often heard you*
It a Bell Telephone Laboratories develop
ment by which two pairs of wires in parallel 
cables can carry as many as twelve separate 
conversations at the same time!
K carrier circuits are being built into many 
miles of Long Distance cables. This is one 
of the ways we have of adding a lot 
of long circuits in a hurry to meet 
the needs of national defense.
. . pCssB bS1o.
Military Ball...
TS.IG.3CF e8S5 kosC  
bers who have "been called to 
the ranks of Scabbard and Blade* 
They are Robert Allers,'Ted Burtis, 
Earl Callendar,  Nelson Crooks, 
James Curry, Vernon Evans, Tom 
Gregorious, Dan .Lindstrom, Jack 
Loftus, Willis Marlatt, Wm. New
man, Willard. Rafferty, Robert 
Sleesman, Enoch Turnoch, Lewis 
Wetzel, Max Williams, Millard 
Gordon.
At this time the award for the 
winning team in the drill competi
tion which was held last Saturday 
will be announced. The competitioh Was' sporisored. by the Scabbard 
and Blade society to help stimulate 
interest in the military department. 
The teams who entered the drilling 
were the Junior and Senior Aeros, 
Alpha Tau Omega, Beta Theta Pi, 
Citcom Clan, Delta Tau Delta, Delta 
Upsilon, the Freshman Engineers, 
Kappa Sigma, Pi'Kappa Alpha, and 
Sigma Nu.
O.sG.CC8$A TS3.MG1 
tCwO1CMIA ,SRC8IB
Dr. Robert E. Doherty has just 
been, re-elected Chairman of the 
Engineers Council for Professional 
Development. He was first elected 
at the annual meeting held at 
Pittsburgh last year.
The Council is described as A 
conlerence of engineering bodies 
organized to enhance the profes
sional status of the engineer 
through co-operative support of 
those national organizations repre
senting the professional, technical, 
educational, and legislative phases 
of an engineers life.
The bodies referred to are the 
ASCE, AIME, ASME, AIEE, SPEE, 
AIChE, the National Council of 
State Boards of Engineering Ex
aminers, and the Engineering In
stitute of Canada.
Platform Enlarged
In order that projects and N. Y. 
A. work may be carried out to 
greater advantage, the mechanics 
platform in the mechanical engi
neering department has been en
larged to suit the needs of those en
gaged, in such work. At the pres
ent time, the Oldsmobile and 
Chrysler fluid drive displays are 
being set up in the mechanical lab
oratory in Machinery Hall and will 
be ready for testing soon, Pro
fessor Trinks stated.
Homework
Words of Advice 
Cum Grano Salis
How To Do Your Homework
(The last in series written solely 
for the benefit.)
By Dave Neuss 
Students often complain that the 
most difficult part of homework is 
doing it. I have found it a good 
policy to leave the most difficult 
thing until last; therefore, a good 
way to get started on your home
work is by writing a letter to your 
girl in the University of Michigan. 
Dear Judy, you could write'but 
dont. That is not a very effective 
way to start a letter; everybody 
starts letters that waybe differ
ent, especially when writing to . a 
friend in the University , of Michi
gan. What if Minnesota did beat 
Michigan in football? . A school 
cant be judged by its football team. 
The players on the Michigan team 
are probably better dancers, any
way. I dont think there is any
thing quite as catastrophic as rain 
on the night of a big dance. The 
wet, loose ends of the girls hair 
takes the starch right out of the 
fellows collars. Arrow shirts are 
generally considered the best, but 
they also come in green and pur
ple. Its a shame that Carnegie 
doesnt have definite school colors 
like the rest. Dear old Carnegie 
plaid just doesnt jive.
If you have difficulty in getting 
started with your homework you 
might try lighting a cigarette. The 
only reason that I smoke Philip 
Morris now is to get the wrappers. 
They are good cigarettes to smoke 
at a poker game, though. I dont 
think I ever had a royal flush 
when the other guy has . four aces. 
It happens so often in the movies 
t6o!  Clark Gable sure 'knows how 
to handle a six-shooter in Honky 
Tonk. The Garand Rifle . is bet
ter, however, for modern warfare.
. (Sometimes when you cant get 
started -with your homework, put
ting your feet on the desk helps. 
Maple desks are better than wal
nut, but I hate peanuts.  Did you 
know that peanuts are a member 
of the lima bean family? Relatives 
are an awful bother. You have to 
send them thank you notes for all 
the gifts they send you. Its only 
, fifty more days until Christmas. 
But why think about Christmas 
when Thanksgiving hasnt even ar
rived.
.If you cant get started with your 
homework by two oclock, you had 
better go to bed; after all, how can 
you think clearly if you dont get 
a good nights sleep.
Students Assist 
France Libre-Unie
Several Tech students are assist
ing the France Libre-Unie organ
ization put on a funds performance 
at the Liberty School, Ellsworth 
Avenue at 8:30 P. M. on November 
5. A variety performance has 
been arranged in which Professor 
M. Maurice Carroll has a military 
act, and in which Marisse Forbes, 
Betty Denne, Virginia Bennett, 
Mary Lendenski, and Mannie Ru
bin are acting as aides.
United Free France, the organi
zations name in English, is a non
political organization that is work
ing for the liberation and restora
tion of France. Many of the acts in 
the show are of professional cal
ibre, and the show is well worth 
the 55c admission charge. Tickets 
can be purchased at Professor Car
rolls office at 157 M. M. or Miss 
Winchesters office at 305 M. M.
Cff The Cuff
Jottings from the Kappa Sig 
formal:
Margie Weatherwax continues to 
keep the boys guessingthis time 
Bub Gaub was the lucky lad.
Louise Phillips, lovely blond 
transfer student from Northwestern, 
showed up with Bob Schwerin. A 
little birdie told us that Mr. S. is 
trying very hard, with this item.
All you wolves can just stop 
howling; Bill Newman has definitely 
not broken up with J. T. Allen, the 
numerous rumors to the contrary 
notwithstanding.
Walt Gretzler looked around 
among his home town talent, and 
came through with a McKeesport 
lass.
Jack Mighton bids fair to upset 
Jacques Meyers applecart, or per
haps we should say station wagon, 
by moving in on the Jane Swearer 
situation.
Cleo Bateman still believes that 
variety is the spice of life. Ann 
Metcalfe was the woman in ques
tion Friday night. Inspector No. 
6%, who has been assigned to cover 
the Bateman situation, reports that 
Cleos date for the Mens Dorm 
Council Dance is slightly on the 
sensational side.
Casanova Nixon had a New York 
date for Fall Carnival, a Bethany 
girl for his Fall Formal, and a 
Carolina importation for Military 
Ball coming. Whats the matter, 
Chuck, wont Tech girls date you?
A nice.new combination seen all 
over the campus is Hap Haroid and 
Alice Shiring.
PIN DEPT.: Urtie Fey has one 
from Dartmouth which has the 
Gamma girls all agog.
Try to figure this one outBill 
Lloyd has been dating Skip Martin
Record Review
Columbia and Okeh Records . . .
. Long live the King; which is an - 
other' way of saying that Benny 
Goodman is back in the groove 
again. Im Here is really class A 
jiizz and perfect for dancers. On 
the reverse is Caprice XXIV Pag
anini, grooved in modified tempo, 
with B. G. taking a solo as only 
he can do it.
Harry James, whose Minka is 
sweeping the country, comes out 
with another winner in Youve 
Changed a recent Columbia re
lease. Employing three violins, a 
viola and a cello, and with this as 
a background, and plus Dick 
Haynes swell vocal, James pro
duces an entirely new atmosphere 
into the record. On the back side 
is a fox trot version of the-old ne
gro spiritual, Nobody Knows the 
Trouble Ive Seen.
Claude Thornhill, the best new 
dance band of the year, comes out 
with another fine pair of numbers 
in Baby Mine and Miss You. 
Along the Halloween vein, Gene 
Krupa adds his bit to the spooky 
atmosphere with The Walls Keep 
Talking, and backs it up with 
Come Be My Love.
Post mortemall those Brooklyn 
fans who bought Harry James 
Dodgers Fan Dance are now play
ing the reverse side Lament To 
Love.
IF YOURE LOOKING
4^04 oU 25Lz6 
fyfiacJz
TRY
Changors Dress Shop
548 Smithfield St. Phone At. 0190 
. OPEN TILL 9 ON
GIDAS
who still has Mid. Pierces pin who 
is dating Jean Albert. Confusin 
aint it?
Its nothing short of amazing, the 
way Libby See and Lucille Orr 
seem to dog one anothers foot
steps. Everytime Lu is at the Beta 
house, Libby is there too, and 
whenever one of them has a date 
at the D. U. house the other man
ages to be on hand. The inscruta
ble workings of Fate, no doubt.
Nancy Segar. is keeping Allison 
Chapin guessing these days. Her 
Duke man, one Bob by name, came 
up for the week end, nursing a dis
located shoulder, and after a very 
pleasant week end spent mostly in 
Nancys company, he sent her a 
very clever souvenir upon his re
turn. We still cant figure out how 
that dislocated shoulder worked its 
way in.
A few of the Honorary Cadet Of
ficers and their lucky escorts for 
the Military Ball: Ginny Bennett 
and Tom Riley, Peggy Young and 
Larry Wolfe, Madeline -Forsythe 
and Fred Dietrich, Isabelle Gup and 
Jere Keiser, Peggy Johnston and 
Cliff Smith.
Ruth Schaub came home .ro.'T. 
that Notre Dame Homecoming week 
end with stars in her eyes. '
The thistle of the week':*- 
to the Freshman Class Officers who 
put on, with but a week of prepara
tion, one of the best Freshman AllCarnegie dances we have seen 
around these parts in a long time.
The Kappas told their peldges to 
get,.Beta and Kappa. Sig pins-this 
year as there is already a sufficient 
number of Delt pins in the sorority. 
Kappa Sigs and Betas (and es
pecially Chuck Lange) please take 
notice!
And speaking of Betas, fresh
man Tassie Truxell is afraid that 
she is in a rut, because she doesnt 
know any men but them.
Word reaches us that Dick Bundy 
had quite a sensational date last 
Saturday night with Sally Duffey, 
one .of Oak Halls , mope .outstanding 
contributions to  campus 'pulchri
tude.
Overheard at the Glee Club tea 
dance: Dont look now, but your 
fangs are showing!
Rudy Thompson, after rendering 
some very solid vocals with Tom 
Purcells SnS outfit, got down from 
the band stand and immediately be
came very much interested in Tina 
La Chima.
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
Techs Headquarters 
for Classics and Swing 
Pittsburghs 
Most 
Beautiful 
Record 
Shop
MATES MUSIC 
COMPANY
532 SMITHFIELD 
GR. 0633
THE CAMPUS FLORIST
MB...............................Stands for MILITARY BALL
and
B. C.........  . Stands for BEAUTIFUL CORSAGES
ONE DOLLAR AND UP 
3719 FORBES STREET SChenley 1300, MAyflower 1300
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
TERMS
EASY
They re a
great barSram! Stop
them!
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
FOR A GOOD SHOW CALL ATlantic 9200

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
ATTENTION
TECH STUDENTS
Go To 
Oaklands Headquarters 
For Speedy Dry Cleaning 
IN OAKLANDS ONLY
0 .en4 clpelaanntg 
TAELS, TUX 
EVENING WEAR 
ipOT94a
$1.00
Try Our 3-Hour
CLEANING SERVICE
(slightly higher)
VeWmc
wGF6R9G jAu
Cleaners & Launderers 
3919 Forbes St. SC. 4313
CALL AND DELIVERY.
WnhU WGtGoE Tech Booters
WGMEU$ V9kRMM Defeated By
DU SGlE 1AG AlleghenyL 3-1
About this time of the year a new 
champion of Intramural football is 
born, and this year is no exception. 
But as we go to press this champion 
is unknown. One thine that we do 
know is that the outcome of the 
game between the boys from Mc
Gill Hull and those of Delta Upsilon will determine the champs.
So far two games have been play
ed, one between the Delts and Mc
Gill and the other brought the 
Delts and the DUs together. The 
first game mentioned was played 
Monday of last week with the Delts 
showing more scoring punch to win.
It was a fourth quarter game, 
that is, practically all the scoring 
was done in the final stanza. Possi
bly the most scoring that has taken 
place this year in any one quarter 
was witnessed in this game. One 
team would 'lead, then the . other. 
The boys from McGill unreeled the 
most dazzling opening period by 
completing pass after pass. The 
Delts couldnt seem to get to the 
ball. At the end of the half the 
game looked definitely all McGill.
In the second half the Delts began 
to function as their short passes al
lowed them to cross the last line in
to pay dirt several times. McGill 
was still plugging along and added 
points but not enough to clinch 
the game. One reason for the good 
showing made. by McGill during 
the-first'half was the fact that thenline was moving in fast to give the 
Delt passer plenty of trouble.
But this was solved by the Delts 
to give them more time thus more 
of their passes hit the mark. This 
one fact alone was the deciding fac
tor of the game. This battle brought 
a good crowd and to say the least 
it kept everyone including the play
ers on their toes.
The fray which pitted the Dolts 
against the DUs was a hard fought 
battle. The DUs tricky attack was 
a little loo much for the Dolts. The 
solution was not found by the Delts 
so they took one on the chin. Even 
though the first blood was drawn 
by the losers by virtue of a safety 
(the DU kicker stepped from his 
own end zone thus a two-pointer) 
the DUs came back in grand style 
to place the game on ice. The DU 
receivers seemed to streak into the 
clear and snag the pill time and 
time again. One thing may be said 
and that is the breaks went to 
the Forbes Streeters.
This game between the Dorm
ers and the DUs will show the 
colors of the football season. This 
one means everything to both 
teams as well as to the Delts. If 
the DUs come out of this game 
as the victors the honors will go 
to them, but if they lose there will 
be a three way tie.
Volleyball gets under way this 
week. This sport is receiving a 
warmer reception than it has in 
any other year. So if the league 
runs according to all expectations, 
it will really get its deserved spot 
in the Intramural program.________
Last Tuesday, the Carnegie Tech 
Booters were again defeated, this 
time at the hands of Allegheny 
College. When the final whistle blew 
the score was 3-1, with the Skibos 
oil the short end of the score. The 
bad weather that accompanies all 
of the games that the locals play is 
becoming somewhat traditional. 
During last Tuesdays encounter, it 
not only rained but snow fell for a 
short while. Due to the wet con
dition of the field, the game looked 
somewhat like a football game, with 
several of the players on the ground 
nearly" all of the time.
Allegheny seemed to hold, the ad
vantage over the Tartans from the 
start of the contest, keeping the ball 
in Skibo territory for a large part 
of the game. The first scoring came 
during the initial period when Alle
gheny scored a long kick that hit 
the top of the cross beam and 
bounced across for a tally.  Once 
again, in the second quarter Alle
gheny scored a second point on a 
short kick from within several feet 
of the goal. No scoring was made 
in the third quarter although Coach 
OConnors boys rallied and kept 
the ball in enemy territory a ma
jority of the time.
In the fourth period the Tech 
boys gained although they permit
ted another point to be scored by 
the opposition. With only a few 
minutes left to play, Pinky Lees, 
playing center forward for the Tar
tans, scored the one and only point 
for Tech.
If time had permitted, the Skibo 
Booters very likely would have 
scored again for they played, a much 
better game near Ihe end of the 
contest. Special mention should bo 
given to Bob Rclsachor, Dusty 
Rhodes, and Stan Mallnskl for their 
outstanding playing In spile of the 
fact that the Tartans wore again 
on the losing end of the score.
This Friday the local booters meet 
Grove City at the corner of Forbes 
Street and Maggie Murph for the 
final game of the season. The game 
is scheduled for 3:30, and all those 
students who. wish to see a game 
before the season closes should take 
this final opportunity.
SAM ROSS
"I RENT TUXEDOS
iTRC.1CB '|: 
203 OAKLAND AVENUE 
10% Off For Tocli Students
je4w8kmw
NEt D99O 
V9a9D4tj P4aa
cbIRo w3bIGF
119 ATWOOD STREET 
MAyfiower 9200
B-O-W-L
wanWmSa OeycDSk 2f 9G3zU
Per line between the hours of 12 and 5 P. M. 
\ iDtO4Va9bO, 4aaOji
UNIVERSITY RECREATION
407 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes) MAyfiower 2998
ju wu mWV8S
s4DSam4
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes 
and cigar holders.
Swimming Team
BILLY HMDS ORCHESTRA U JOY LIND
HOTELSCHENLEY
TRIPLE THREAT BEARCAT
aG9, wTRNNGFU OGHR3 yR3EGFO
wGoUA3 yRE, ml9GMMG3E w'5oI
Holding down the left half position for the Bearcats of Cincinnati is 
lightweight Don Davis, Junior triple threat star who has recently recov
ered from injuries.
Cincinnati Is Host 
To Tartan Eleven
.o6G t53g|G tFRG3IMb
Treat yourself and 
others to fresh-tasting 
Wrigleys Spearmint Gum 
The Flavor Lasts
Despite the loss of seniors Bill 
Molvie, Bob Boehmig, and Ed Lewis 
through graduation, Techs swim
mers are looking forward to a very 
successful campaign this winter. 
The team this year has only one 
senior, distance man Murray Lieblich, all the rest being juniors and 
 sophomores, most of them veterans 
from last year. Because of the 
large number of candidates who 
turned up for practice, it will prob
ably not be necessary for each man 
to swim three events in each meet 
as was the case last year, so that 
the final relay team will have some 
fresh men in it who will not be 
.swimming on will Dower alone.
The lineup, itself is, of course, not 
definitely set yet, but it is appar
ent that some changes over last 
years will be made. Carver and 
Burtis, who last year were exclu
sively sprint men, will see service 
. n the 440 and 220 respectively be
sides swimming the relay. Bill 
Brown, present Penn-Ohio diving 
champion, will not take his turn 
at freestyle or backstroke as he 
has in the past. Diving with him 
this year 'will be Ray Church, for
mer backstroke.
Grove City First Victim 
Most of the responsibility for the 
breaststroke will fall on sophomore 
Hoger Beal, since Loper and Vajda 
will not be available. The  back
stroke assignment will be handled 
by Martin and McCullough; assist
ed by Sarosdy, a newcomer this 
year. Turnock will again swim the 
220 and 440 freestyle events. The 
rest of the lineup will be arranged 
after the team has had more time to 
get into condition, when Coach 
Risedorph will be better able to tell 
what each man can do.
The first meet will be with Grove 
City at home on January 7, the 
next not until February 6, when 
Penn State-will be at the Tech pool.
Bamboo Gardons -g*
3531 FORBES STREET 
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served
Special Meals At Moderate Prices
Ijjpnchcon. Served From 11-3 
P. M.35c and up j
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M.
55c and up ,
Also Special Rates For Parties
The rest of the twelve meets, the 
last two championships, will fol
low in quick succession. The first 
four, Grove City, State, Slipery 
Rock and Indiana State Teachers, 
will be at home, and the rest, ex
cept for the Penn-Ohio Cham
pionships in March, will be away. 
The teams to be met in their own 
pools are, in order, Kent, Allegheny, 
Westminster, Western Reserve, Case 
and W. & J.
Coach Hopeful
Captaining the 1941-42 swimming 
team is Ted Burtis, 220 specialist, 
who was elected at the close of last 
season to fill the vacancy created 
by the graduation of last years 
leader, Bill Molvie. Ted was also 
honorary captain of the plebe team 
during his freshman year, and has 
another year after the coming one 
left to perform with Coach Risedorphs aquatic aggregation.
Last years team, although ham
pered by a lack of swimmers, had 
a fairly successful season, con
sidering the fact that most of the 
boys had to swim in several events 
and were consequently worn out. 
This state of affairs was undoubted
ly the deciding factor in several of 
the swimming meets last year, es
pecially the Case and W. & J. com
petitions, in which the final score 
of the meet was decided by the last 
event, the 400 yard relay. The most 
heartbreaking loss was to Case, that 
meet being lost by three points.
Tech Placed Second
Opening the season Tech lost two 
in a row, to Penn State and Slip
pery Rock. The team rallied to 
defeat Western Reserve and West
minster, but then lost to Case in 
the heartbreaker. Grove City and 
Temple were the next two vic
tims for Tech, but W. & J. defeat
ed the local boys in the final meet 
by wining the 40 yard relay.
In the Inter-Collegiate meets at 
the close of the season, Tech placed 
last in the meet at Rutgers, Molvie 
being the only Tartan to place. In 
the newly organized Penn-Ohio 
Swimming Association meet, Tech 
placed second, being nosed out in 
many of the events by the winning 
Slippery Rock squad.
Tech Track Team 
Loses To Bethany
The Tech track team journeyed 
to Bethany to meet defeat for the 
first time this season 19-36, on a 
wet and myddy, course. The Beth
any harriers captured the first three 
places with Ben Puchaski plac
ing fourth and Frank Pritchard 
placing filth for the Tartans. This 
was the last meet of the season 
for our trackmen.
After the meet at Bethany, a ban
quet was held and Ben Marcin was 
elected captain for the second 
time. Nich Teresi was last years 
captain.
Tech Defeated 
By Scientists 
In Night Game
Once again the Tartans leave 
Pittsburgh to play in a foreign field, 
this time against the Cincinnati 
Bearcats. The Bearcats have a
formidable record behind them, and 
promise to be a heavy opponent for 
the Tartans. The Cincinnati team 
suffered several injuries early in 
the season, but all those have been 
healed, and the Ohio team is prac
tically intact again, which isnt 
so good for the battered Skibos. Re
gardless of the odds, however, we 
can expect the Plaids to put up a 
valiant fight. There is one sig
nificant absence in the Bearcats 
lineup, which may be remedied by 
now, and that is the illness of their 
coach, Joe Meyer. This fact play
ed an  important' role in tlieir "de
feat received from the University 
of Tennessee.
Probable Starters for Bearcats
In the left end position will probable be Jim Croucher, a senior this 
year. Croucher is a fine end, fast, 
and has plenty of ability as flankman. He replaces Bob Waiscott in 
this spot. Next to him at left tackle 
will be Kraske, a senior weighing 
243 pounds, the largest boy on the 
squad. He has seen much service 
as a reserve, and is well fitted for 
this position. Nick Shorich is play
ing his third year in the left guard 
berth as a starter for the Bear
cats. He is a fine all around play
er, and is very fast in his position. 
At center will 'be Max Coyle. lie 
was a first string center during his 
sophomore year, but was forced out 
of action in his junior year by an 
appendicitis operation: lie is back 
in the game, however, this year. In 
the right guard position will be Bill 
Kelchner, a senior this year. Bill 
is the brother of Orv Kelchner who 
was captain of the Cincinnati team 
in 1939.
Bill made a fine record at Toledo 
Scott, and, if he lives up to expecta
tions will finish up his college foot
ball career with flying colors. At 
right tackle will be Tony Macikas, 
also a senior. He is a good ball 
player, called rough and ready by 
his fellow team members. He play
ed with Kraske at Chicago Tilden, 
and the combination is still intact.
In the right terminal position is 
Jud Hall. Hall was slowed up by 
injuries last year, but is in fine con
dition to hold down the right flank 
this year. He is tall and lanky 
weighing 183 pounds, but just right 
for his duties as end.
quarterback will be Hal Stern
berg. Meyers switched him to 
guard, which he played during his 
sophomore year, to the position of 
chief signal-barker. This is indicative of his unusual ability at 
calling the right plays at the right 
time. He has had football executive 
experience in that he was captain 
of Cincinnati Norwood. In the left 
half position is Donnie Davis, con
sidered by many Bearcat rooters 
as the best back on the squad. He 
is a three letter man, playing both
basketball and baseball. His pass
ing is a principal factor in the 
Cincinnati offense. Significantly he 
is called Plenty Grand by Cincin
nati sports writers.
Along with Davis in the other 
halfback berth is Berate Zelinski, 
who is <an unknown quantity with 
with several important features on 
lvis side. lie has the makings of a 
great runner as evidence by the 
fact that several times last year he 
broke away for big gains. All he 
needs is a little more experience, 
At fullback will be Mike Grctchcn. 
Gretehen has not had much experi
ence in the Bearcats lineup, but 
when given a chance has shown 
some talent so that he stands to 
be watched.
The Cincinnati team more ap
proaches the Tartans in size than 
any team played heretofore this 
season, and for this reason we can 
expect a pretty good showing from 
the Carnegie boys this coming Sat
urday.
Case Bets Tech
Again the Tartans played ball 
in a driving rain, this time against 
the Case Scientists. Case beat Tech 
27-0 by virtue of a Melreit field 
day. The Casers fullback Bob Mel
reit got away three times to score 
against the disappointed Plaids.
After five minutes of play in the 
first quarter, Glenn Konker passed 
to Yurcheshen from the Skibos six 
yard line with the result of a 
touchdown. At the end of the first 
period Melreit broke loose with only 
one minute to play in the quarter 
for a thirty-six yard run down to 
the Plaid lour yard line. Two plays 
later he went over for the second 
tally of the game. lie made the 
placement.
In the second quarter, Melreit in
tercepted Fritzs pass to run 5 yards 
for his second score of the game. 
This made the Tartans trailing the 
Casers 20-0 at the half. -
The third period saw the Sci
entists make their last tally of the 
game when Melreit went through 
center for eight yards and a touch
down after a drive of 46 yards. 
Again he made the conversion.
In the last quarter the Tartans 
held Melreit and the Scientists at 
bay, and managed to reach the Case 
22 yard line. This was practically 
the only show of strength the Ski
bos showed during the whole game.
Let us hope in the forthcoming 
game with the Bearcats that the 
Tartans show the same spirit that 
they did against Notre Dame, and 
are able to at least hold the score 
down to less than that of the Case 
game.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1941
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tftrt.'in
General News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organization(frarxwjie plaid
1R3G 8FEU 833A539GU 
8FNRUER9G Wob Wo39G
Definition
Freedom Is Made 
Of Simple Stuff
The following editorial has been 
reprinted by permission, from the 
Courier-Journal, Louisville, Ky., 
issue of June 26. It clicked, went 
over big, has been read over the 
radio, and been reprinted by others. 
This we learned from an interesting 
follow-up story in the same paper, 
issue of July 6, which also told us 
that Miss Hazel Parker was the 
author.
(The Editorial)
From the archives of broken 
peace we are bringing out old words 
and dusting them off for use again 
as shining lanterns to lead us 
through the darkness of another 
war.
Words like freedom, justice and 
truthall of them hard to de
fine, none of them used more fre
quently than freedom.
You cannot say what freedom is, 
perhaps, in a single sentence. It 
is not necessary to define it. It 
is enough to point to it.
Freedom is a man lifting a gate 
latch at dusk and sitting for a while 
on the porch, smoking his pipe, be
fore he goes to bed.
It is the violence of an argument 
outside an election poll; it is the 
righeous anger of the pulpits.
It is the warm laughter of a girl 
on a park bench.
It is the rush of a train over the 
continent and the unafraid faces 
of people looking out the windows.
It is all the howdys in the world, 
and all the hellos.
It is Westbrook Pegler telling 
Roosevelt how to raise his' children; 
it is Roosevelt letting them raise 
themselves.
It is Lindberghs appeasing voice 
raised above a thousand hisses.
It is Dorothy Thompson asking 
for war; it is General Hugh S. JohnNeil Buckley Sings 
With Len Malvern 
In Gym On Nov. 8
Fine Arts students have every
thing in readiness for their first 
dance of the season to be held next 
Saturday night in the Gymnasium.
The Gym will be decorated in Mil
itary style. It is reported that the 
decorations for the Day School 
dance on Friday evening will be 
used for the Evening School Armis
tice Dance the following evening.
The Gym is large enough to accom
modate the crowds that are usually 
in evidence at the Arts Dances, so 
there will be plenty of room for 
everybody.
Len Malvern, who has played on 
Techs campus for Day School 
dances, has been selected for this 
affair. His vocalist, Neil Buckley, 
was formerly associated with Don 
Bestor and Benny Burton.
The dance starts promptly at 9:00 
P. M., and dont forget that the first 
two hundred young ladies present 
will be the recipients of lovely 
corsages and programs. Each Art 
student and one friend is admitted 
free upon presentation of his or her 
registration card, and all outsiders, 
upon payment of the admission 
price of the usual $1.00 per couple.
For those who havent a date for 
the evening there are plenty of 
jobs to be done before, during, and 
after the affair. Attendants are 
needed to help check coats and 
wraps, and to help pin corsages.
Help will be needed on Sunday aft
ernoon too for cleaning up the Gym 
the workers period starts at 2:00 
in the afternoon. For all these 
tasks there are ultimate awards
Tor each session that you work, 
two points are given towards an 
attractive Insignia Key.
Dont forget the dateSaturday 
evening, November 8th, to come 
out and enjoy the smooth danceable 
rhythms of Len Malvern. It will 
be an evening youll long remem
ber.
( oniifil lie Awalte
8|MG et tR9GFU 8FG SG9GUUoFb 
1AF w599GUUt5M 89ER6RERGU
Interest in activities was the keynote of the article To Students 
appearing In last week's issue of the TARTAN and indeed this is the most 
Important Item, for without Interest In these activities neither the coun
cil on the one hand nor the students on the other can make a success of 
the extra curricular uctlvltle* on the campus.
Granted, therefore, that Interest is the most essential factor it 
behooves each one of us to make a retrospective survey of the past year 
and see where our shortcomings were, be they as officers of the council, 
workers on activities, or just students on the campus of Carnegie.
The personnel of the Evening Student Council is made up of thirteen 
students, four from each component college and a president who was 
elected the previous year from the retiring council. All of these students 
are subjected to certain rules which have been decided upon by the Coun
cil.
In order to carry on the work of the Council three other olficers are 
elected from the personnel of the Council consisting of a Vice President, 
a. Secretary, and a Treasurer. To each of these offices falls duties which 
must be attended to and if students do no have interest enough to fulfill 
the duties thereof, they should not accept these offices. Since it can readily 
be seen that if there is a laxity on the part of officers this is bound to 
carry on through the organization and conversely if the officers are active 
and interested a like attitude will be manifested down through the or
ganization. Supplementing the four officers is the office of Social Chair
man selected by the Council and likewise a very important office for the 
students will react to the degree with which the officer fills the position.
Let us now review the office of president and ask were all the func
tions of Council attended to and carried out with despatch, or was 
valuable time and effort spent on trivial things which really did not 
amount to very much? Were the Council meetings conducted in a busi
ness-like manner, or was there bickering and quibbling which tended to 
build up a resistance and permeate through the groups? Were the officers 
held accountable to Council for efficient service; the vice-president with 
his duties; the secretarys minutes always on time with a full report of 
council happenings, or were these more often late sometimes one and 
two months at a time, and did Council know from the Treasurers report 
how it stood as to finances, whether this budget was ample to carry on 
the project, and that activity had too much; whether too much was being 
spent for one thing and not enough for another, or were these reports so 
vague as to reflect nothing and to end up the year with a possible deficit? 
Was the Social Chairmans position so effectively held that everything 
clickeda schematic plan for decorations decided upon for each dance, 
orchestras selected, dances advertised on bulletin boards in sufficient time, 
tickets distributed far enough in.advance, so the students could circulate 
them, or did we find half-hearted effort made to decorate Thistle Hall, 
a mad rush to get signs up at the last minute, even as late as the day 
before the dance, or tickets sent out and distributed which would not 
lend themselves readily to circulation and often too late to do much good. 
If, upon a survey, it can be found that the officers of Council were func
tioning In a satisfactory manner then one must look elsewhere for the 
lack of interest which has been hurled at the students. If, on the other 
hand, the proverbial finger points eouncilwise, then, the remedy must 
come within and it behooves the newly elected council to see that its 
officers are selected with due regard to efficiency, diligence, and interest.
One cannot expect good results from a secretarial office if the duties 
of this office have been neglected, likewise a treasurers office if the func
tions of the office have been beclouded with vague and meaningless re
ports.
We have been told that the Council is a course of education in itself, 
and we do agree with this, so, when the selection for officers on the 
council is made, let Council elect to these offices the best qualified mem
bers and if there develops a lack of interest in any one of the personnel, 
let this member be held accountable to council. Once again, interest is 
the most important factor in the success or failure of extra-curricular 
activities and it is hoped that Council, at least; will not be found want
ing in this respect when the -year closes.
Vintons Music 
Proves Popular 
At Industries Hop
The College of Industries Hal
loween dance, held Saturday even
ing, November 1, in the gymnasium, 
turned out to be a happy and elab
orate occasion.
Stan Vinton, making his first ap
pearance on the Tech campus, was 
well received; and it is hoped that 
the opportunity will arise when he 
will play at another affair similar 
to this one.
Decorations, carried out in the 
Halloween manner, gave the 
dancers a feeling that the witches 
and the goblins were somewhere in 
the atmosphere. The first 200 girls 
to arrive, received unique corsages 
which they displayed on their col
orful frocks.
Many of the students, desiring to 
chat awhile or order refreshments, 
adjourned to the Black Cat, *a 
popular rendevous, patronized by' 
those attending.
The committee extends a vote of 
thanks for the efforts given by 
those who hung the decorations, 
and to those who attended to make 
this affair a great success.
son asking her to keep quiet.
It is you trying to remember the 
words to The Star-Spangled Ban
ner.
It is the sea breaking on wide 
sands somewhere and the shoulders 
of a mountain supporting the sky.
It is the air you fill your lungs 
with and the dirt that is your gar
den.
It is a man cursing all cops.
It is the absence of apprehension 
at the sound of approaching foot
steps outside your closed door.
It is your hot resentment of in
trigue, the tilt of your chin and the 
tightening of your lips sometimes.
It is all the things you do and 
want to keep on doing.
It is all the things you feel and 
cannot help feeling.
Freedomit is you.
THE MAILBOX
Dear Sir:
No term at Carnegie Tech would 
be complete without the receipt 
of the Tartan, and to the evening 
student, the Plaid page. It is with 
renewed interest that I received 
this years campus paper and I 
hope no issue will be missed.
I am particularly pleased with 
the recent issue and the ease with 
which it could be read. It is re
freshing to be able to gleam from 
the columns various news items and 
to follow the developments on the 
campus. If I did not have the news
paper I would feel as though I had 
missed something.
The presentation of the news 
about pertinent and important items 
certainly does give one a feeling 
that one can look with confidence 
to the future for improvement. No 
side of a question can he too right 
nor too wrong, and it is only with 
an interchanging of views and ideas 
that a happy medium can be struck.
Perhaps no other one item fur
nished the evening student is as 
important as having the newspaper 
mailed to those who are registered. 
If this service were cut out it would 
be a hardship to the evening stu
dents, and they would be denied 
the opportunity of seeing in print 
what was happening on the campus 
from time to time. Even though the 
papers were placed in the corridors, 
only a small number of the evening 
students would receive copies as 
they appeared each week. Should 
it be necessary for the Evening Stu
dent Council to cut any one item, I 
hope the paper will not he the one 
decided upon.
Again, I wish to icompliment the 
Plaid for the excellent service it is 
rendering the evening students and 
shall look forward to receiving the 
weekly issue of the paper.
Respectfully,
EDWARD E. MCDONALD.
WFu wRNCUA3 
ettGFU nUGt5M 
4GoIR3H co|u
Dr. Robert G. Simpson again of
fers the unique services of his 
Reading Laboratory to all evening 
students on the campus. For sev
eral years this service has been 
offered by the Department of Psy
chology and Education and had been 
available only to day school stu
dents. This service proved en
tirely successful in diagnosing and 
solving the reading and studying 
faults of the students as an aid to 
help them get the most out of their 
studies.
This service was first offered to 
the evening students last year and 
met with much success. Dr. Simp
son will interview each student 
individually to determine his or her 
reading and studying faults, and 
outline a definite course of studies 
to cover their problem. This assist
ance will do much to aid the stu
dents in getting the point of their 
reading and grasping the full mean
ing of the studies. Through the 
help of this Remedial Reading many 
students have improved their 
grades.
Students needing help in college 
reading and studying are urged 
to take advantage of this service. 
Appointments can be arranged by 
contacting Dr. Simpson at his of
fice in Industries 2553-B.
Change of Address
In order that telegrams, mail and 
other important communications 
may be delievered promptly to. the 
student, all changes in locai address 
must be reported immediately to the 
Office of Registrar, by filing at the 
General Information Desk a Notice 
of Change of Address. A student 
will .be held responsible for any fail
ure in l'eceiving official Institute 
notices 'by reason of not having a 
correct address on file.
Fine Arts Elect 
A1 Sansostt As 
Vice President
Well, folks, it is very evident that 
the Evening College of Fine Arts'" 
Students do not read their issues; 
of the Plaid. This conclusion 
was determined by the astounding 
turnout at the Fine Arts re-elec
tion. This election, as you all 
know, was held to break the tie 
between Fred M. Fargotstein and 
Alexander Sansosti for the office of 
Vice President. In order for the 
best man to win, the students: were 
requested to conscientously cast 
their ballots last Friday evening. 
The election was held in the main 
corridor of the Fine Arts Building, 
between the hours of 7:20 and 10:20 
P. M. The affair was conducted 
very smoothly and with g 
isfaction on the part of 
fleers.
Flash! The returns: The  - 
President is Alexander 
Best of luck to you, Al.
 cerely hoped that you \v 
fine job in representing those stu
dents who elected you.
DRC To8.CsGC p1oGF
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by the 
Editorial Board of the Day School 
Staff.
Editor
James H. Miller 
News Editor 
Adeline King 
Associate Editor
Anna June Davidson 
Francis Lacny 
Nancy E. Lewis
C. M. Christ 
Lawrence Coates 
Chs. Frost 
Joe Haughney 
John Hopkins 
G. William Hurtt
Staff
Robert C. King 
Stephen Marclnizyi* 
David W. PettigrewRonald E. Shoflf 
Emmett Shutes Frank J. Young
GLORIA and BARBARA BREWSTER
Popular twins of stage and screen
Its Chesterfield
3TTVV ft CVar Teuco Cc.Def nsSufr AfCCfroCtyCspa chhSfroyEhIspa WsatrfCCf
Appearing 
In This 
Week's
Industries Dance
Arts Dance
IssueArts Election
