Men must be at liberty to 
gay in print whateverthey 
have in mind to say,'pro
vided it wrongs no one.- 
CHARLES yv DANA
Todays Editorial
One Point of ^iew
VOL. 29, NO. 12GARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DEC. 11, 1934
Studets May Attend' '- 
A. A. A. S. Exhibit 
In Mellon Institute
Carnegie Profs. Present 
Technical Treatises 
Before Meeting
DEPTS. SPONSOR 
VARIOUS EXHIBITS
Each Scientific Organization 
Plans Own Program; 
Provides. Speakers
Any Carnegie student may at1 tend the annual science exhibition 
 of Lbe American Association for 1 Advancement or Science which Is I being held in Mellon Institute from | December 27 to January 2, by i merely presenting bis registration 
| card. Faculty
: mg to attend
of the conventain tickets from Mr. Col
in the Registrars office.
scientific organizations, each 'working out their ownprograms, planning exhibitions, and providing speakers.
Dr. Stern to Read Paper 
Dr. Otto Stern, research profeseor in the Department of Physics
Arts Sorority 
Rushing Week 
Begins Jan. 3
Non-RushingTeaPlanned 
For New Students; 
Events Limited
, paper__ the sympO'6ium which will be held by the American Physical Society during tbe convention. The materia) is based on experiments conducted by the Research Laboratory of . Molecular Physics.
Several other Carnegie professors will present papers at tbe various meetings of the convention. An incomplete'  list1 Includos-Pror fessors Sower And. Williamson Ipfthe Department of. Physics," Professors Hicks and Olds of the Department of Mathematics, Dr.M. Procht of the Department of Mechanics, and Dr. Schoen of the Department of Psychology.
Carnegie will have displays In
urgy, photoelestlcJty. . The coal re 
search display Is In three parts, illustrating the origin . of coal, its utilization, and . the study of . coal 
Me It is conducted In modern labor
atories.
Space Models To Be Shown 
The metallurgical exhibit will Include space lattice models showing. Iron oxide forming on iron and copper oxide forming on copper; samples of high purity iron etched;, to show grain sttTicture and a photograph of metallurgical.. figures and of workersin . the laboratory:
The photoelasticlty;. J exhibition
improved technique for obtaining boundary stresses, factors influencing stress concentrations, higher factor?.flf..,..cP.n'
Plebe Dramats 
Give Matinees
'Everyman. Opens Today 
At 3:30 in Union
"Everyman, the famous Play, will be presented Union of Administration Hall thii Afternoon and tomorrow afternoon "t 3;30.. "Everyman" is a-powerful nnd moving production, in which virtues are portrayed as living per-- eonalities.
Everyman"' first, appeared England about 1600, hut the play is probably of a much earlier date.play is thought to have
freshmen from the  Department of
Safety Valve Hears 
| Of European Trends
Safety value discussion erouy I hear Leonard-.J: Croroie;at-theI next meeting of the  club ThursI fia7 at 12:30.;
I Mr.' Cromrie -Is traveling s. - lary of the Intercollegiate Council I the League-of Nations Association. His topic* will be "Trends in turops Today.
Following Mr.  Cromles tail* stijMe time will., devoted to' 
cusaing the peace poll which ts belnG sponsored by . college editors an<i the Literary Digest.
spite of. the -interference'of J  ' ng with-attendan$e.emeetine last week
Sorority rushing season ii College of Fine Arts formally opens on Thursday, January 3, the second day. after school resumes. Five sororities are participatingAlpha Kappa psi, Beta Pi, BetaGasnd Phi Delta Mu.On Wednesday, Janui sorority Council
Gamma,
The tea will be held club room in Administration Hail 4:30. Cldrinda Perrott 36, presthe arrangements.- The rushing season lasts for ten diys, including two week-ends. On Friday and Saturday evenings, January 5 and 6, the various sororities will hold their formal affairs, and on Sunday afternoon each sorority will have a tea. Rushing evcntB are. limited to three functions and the choice of dates fot these events will be automatic.The'formal rushingterminated by a silence period or three days beginning.a night on* Sunday evening,
pledge/ which must be In the office of the Dean of [Women by 1 on Monday the 14. Pledges are answer before 4:30 on Wednesc of the same week. Open Tushi will continue at the close of the silence period.
Choir to Present 
Christmas Music
direction of Miss Hulda. Kenley, raember 'of the-faculty of the De-' partment of Music, will assist 'Marshall Bidwell in his regular-Saturday evening recital on December 15 In the Carnegie Music Hall.The choir plans to present a gram:appropriate to the Christmas season. Including the  following numbers:
panled by Lawrence Peeler.
Phi Kappa Phi 
Will Initiate 
23 Students
Carnegie Inn Is Scene 
Of Formal Dinner 
Tomorrow at 5
CARNEGIE LIBRARY 
HEAD WILL SPEAK
Honorary Considers Upper 
Filth of Senior Class 
In Its Selection
Tomorrow at five, the twentythree students who were called to Phi Kappa Phi, scholastic honorary, will be formally initiated at a
Miles through the Antipodes."Phi Kappa Phi was officially installed on the Carnegie Campus June 3, 1932. This honorary is a society for students and faculty members who are . scholastically outstanding. Its purpose is to ter learning in the life of the dergraduate by offering him m bership on an equal basis \ members of the faculty.
A student selected from partmont must have finished* At least three years of a regular fourof .his class schoconstltuUon Ides that only one-half of -the upper fifth of the graduating class In any college may be selected. Seventeen members of the faculty and administration .petitioned foi
MM.iiolds Benefit 
For Smoking Room
For the benefit of the Margaret Morrison smoking room, the Margaret Morrison Senate will sponsor a bridge, to be held tomorrow in the Recreation Hall from three to nmus Proceeds from tbe party willbe used to purchase benches, seat covers
vUh which the Senate plans
Betty Mackey 36, treasurer of the Senate, is chairman of the benefit which Is a joint
Under the supervision of members of the Senate, cushi ions will be made for th new benches which are to be placed around the sides of the room. New hangings, retaining the color scheme, will, be made, and decorative wall pieces will be contributed by the Department of .Costume Economics. .The furniture In the room Is to be painted, and cement jardinieres purchasYule Chapel 
Will Be Held 
This Morning
Dr. Watkins to Preside; 
Service Is at 12:30 
In Little Theater
PROGRAM CONSISTS 
OF CAROL SINGING
Y Cabinets 
Gi ve Annual 
Yule Dinner
Party. Will Take Place 
This Evening at 6:00 
In Carnegie Inn
faculty members
Dollar Drive
Closes Dec.31
of the Carneg/e Inn, th6 annual Christmas dinner party; for the faculty and students will'be held.' The dinner will be sponsored jointly as in past years by the Y
More Than $100 Added 
To Endowment Fund
* The Dollar Day Campaign which 
-was-'Jnaagupaled-'onr-Garnepte'-Day; 
will close December 31. Up to the 
present date, over $100 baa been collected. This-sum Is not yet up to that collected over a slmllai period In other
>nar. All lected will beturned over to the Carnegie Endowment Committee,
dollars, provided a total of four mfllion dollars has been raised. During the seven years ' that th Plan has been in operation, a total of $2.500 has been raised.
Students Asked to Vote in 
Undergraduate. Peace Poll
Ballots to Be Mailed Jan. 6; Questions Published 
In Advance to Provide Opportunity for 
' Adequate Thoughtand^XTiscussio
All students of Carnegie will be asked to vote in the Peace 
Poll sponsored by the Association of College Editors with the 
co-operation of the Literary Digest. The .poll, which will be 
conducted in 150 American colleges and universities throughout the country, will be held in the early part' of-January, Ballots' 
bearing return postage will be mailed dircctly to the students on January'6. They will contain th following questions:
1. Do you believe that the United States can staj^out of anothergreat war? , >
(a) If the borders of the United States were invaded^ would you bear arms in defense of your country ?
(b) Would you .bear,arms for the United States in the inva
sion of the borders of another country?2. Do you believe that a national policy of AN AMERICAN 
NAVY AND AIR-FORCE SECOND TO NONE will insure
. against the possibilities of another great war?
3. Do you favor government control of armament and munition industries ?
4. Db you approve of the conscription of capitl in time of war, 
just as has been our historic procedure in drafting man-:
. power in time of war ?  
5. Do you think that, in the pursuit of the stabilization^'of 
 Peace;* it would be a wise policy.. for th UnitedStates - to
enter the .League of Nations? .
* These questions are being published in advance of the'poll 
so that students uiay have the opportunity to think about and. discuss them over the Christmas vacation and so b better pre
pared to answer them at the.proper time. -' - *
, EDITORIAL
One Point of View
'With* political strife and discontent in Europe: mre appa
rent that ever since 1914, the undergraduate peace poll tekes>n 
added significance. Trouble in the Balkans, always a -fpowder 
box,y and tbe forthcoming Saar plebiscite have produced war 
talk aiid preparations that.liave made the entire civilized world; 
uneasy.-' The voice of the-undergraduate of the .country* heard at 
such a timely moment, can carry with it greatweight and influence. They will be dircctly involved in any'war in which this 
country mav partake. Eligible soldiers, sailors and air pilots, 
potential cannon fodder; future.forces for. war. and destruction, 
tKev cieserve a voice in th matter.. What does'that voice riayt? 
;How ivuld you act if. war wre*,declarcd? What, means Lvyold 0n.vPage Twp) y; ;'*
ready made reservations for the Christmas party, the evant which the Cabinets consider tbe finest their social program. AU others who would like to attend a: quested to mako reservat,lo _ .the Y Office before 3 o'clbck this, afternoon., . . . .. ._ \ ^
'Rei'd*Last*Vear tbalilrysoys * 
. Last yoar the Christmas dinn was held In the'Margaret MorriBon Recreation Hall. This year committee in. charge has ohta the Carnegie . Inn for the. affair because of Its better facilities fi handling large groups..
An after dinner program in keep- dinner will' be glvi Ruskln Apartments on the evening " I Mrs. Al-t as host
is - madepossible through the Income from ..fund that' was given to the Inover the holiday season -who desire to recoivean invitation quested to see Mr^ Risesdorph be: his office.
Arranged by Prof. Keeble; 
Mr. Matthew Frey Is 
Organ Accompanist
in the Little Theater of the College of Fine Arts. Dr. Watkins, acting president in the absence/Of Dr. Daker, will preside.
Under the direction of Prof. Glendenning Koeble, chairman of he Fine Arts faculty, the.folloy ing program of carols has been ai
Adeste Fldetes..........John ReadingO Little Town of Bethlehem..........:...............Lewis A. RednerWe Three Kings of the Orlei
................................... Pi-netovlusThe First Noel............TraditionalGcd Rest You Merry Gentlemen.................................. TraditionalSilent 'Night ........................Gruber
Matthew Frey, a member of the faculty of the Department of Muad organist Church, accompanist for 
All members of the student body and faculty are invited to attend this chape), which has been one of the most popular ones -in past years. '
Eleven Fraternities Pledge*
73 New Registrants During ^ 
Annual Fall Rushing Season
Dr. M. Frocht to Present 
Findings at A.A.A.S. Confab
Present Total Is Fifty. 
Per Cent Under Last 
Years Murk
Photo-elastic Lcai Study 
 esting of Metals 
Is Called Ideal
"Some New Aspects of Stress Concentration" is the tltlo or the paper which Dr. M. Frocht preset
tton for <
American AssoclaAdvancement of Sci. convention which will be held in Pittsburgh December 27 through January 2. Tho paper representsthe Sndlngs of i
ROTC -Names 
Soph Officers
Appointments Are Based 
On Military Grades
 For the first tint in the history 
of .the Mliitafy DVpaftment at Car
negie, sophomore cadets have been 
appointed to Lbe rank of corporal. 
By an order of December 4, thirtysix corporals were appointed for 
the first semester.
: The basis upon which these 
polntments were made by the Mil
itary Department was the mid-se
mester grade in military subjects. 
Appointments, for the first semes
ter have been made in the case of 
corporals with tbe same intention 
as In the appointments of upper
classmen, namely, to foster com
petition for higher grades which will. be rewarded by promotion ini rank as openings ' occur.
Corporals for the first semester are as follows g Keith B. WcCutcheon, Lynden T. Osgood, Joseph I<. Fleming, i James Brown,  Edgar W. Clarke, .Rowland P. Stevens, Will L. Wheeler, Michael Duflneez, Edward J. Kreh, william G. FTan/,, Willard W. Jenkins, George W. (Lamheftson, Samuel Leven, and 
fore December 2i at his office, l*m'y Ryshanek.Gymnasium . Building' 204. Both John R. Challlnor, Jabez 
manjtjid Invited . .... . LWmiaing,.. Jtobert. Jkvv..KlrkJa^li------ ' ' rJamos H.'Layton, Glenn B. Daugh-Janies I. Bevan, Lewis I).8 Men Pledged 
By Theta.Tau
Alter Requirements for Most 
Promising Engiueer
Nu chapter of Theta Taw, national professional engineering fratevnlty,- pledged two seniors and six juniors at the conclusion of its regular fa.ll interviews. .The men pledged are: Robert W. Carlsen '35, Alfred A. .Nickel - r35, Evans W. Cliefeaeman '36, Lawrence K. Jeltor '36,Robert C. Krapf '36, Richard C. Lightcap '36, Melvin Morrison 3, and John' Single '36.
The fraternity, has also altered the procedure by which the most promising senior engineer is chosen by the committee on awards. The
student .must. be. a senior enrolled in an engineering course at Carnegie.- -(2 ); The student must-have spent .his', sophomore, junior, - and senior years at-CarnegIe, ahd must have atlaned not less than a 2.5 average factor .during thattime.
Dr. Marks9 Mother
Dies after Illness
Elizabeth Hcckert Marks, 70,, the mother-? of Dr. 'William  L; Marks, school .physician,' died Sunday' evening after an illness of threo weeks.
, -Funeral services... will be held Wednesday at 2 oclock-at the faniity. ho'me in Marsj Pa.
NOTICE TO THISTLE.SALESMEN
All membe.rsC'of 'the. Thistle stafT
12:30 to 1:30 a  There will bo't Thlstlo.StaffV' 'evening in-iie.'
Brlner, Marsh T. Crulhshanlt, Charles F. Zeigler, Raymond Q. Duke, Harry F. Robey, Edward R Kuklewlcz, Alvin C. Amos, Charles E. Trautman;. George A. Jonlc, Eugene S. 'Ferguson, Philip Marcus, John E. Herzog, Homer L. Jones, James CReynolds, Albert F. Weiae, aTid Don E. Wilson.
The Military . Department also Announces that after Wednesday combined drill will be discontinued for the semester. There will be combined drill this Thursday, but In the future, for juniors and seniors, classes in Military Law, Chemical Warfare, and Tacticsof Large
Costume Econ. Club 
Will Hold Bazaar
nd tomorrow
A variety of hand-made gifts* for all ages will be.on sale at. a number of booths.
 Neckwear, . lingerie, handkerchiefs, and novelties will be sold at. a booth supervised by Jane Rogers /36. Margaret Barr '35 will sell
Carnegie
Tartan
QuarterHoiir
Wee Scotch Lassie singing:- 1. . Continental/Stay as Sweet as You Are. '
- of Basketball
a'mpus Highlights:- Your.Tartan Reportei
ixtonslve study of stress ^ocentrations by the photo-elastic mothod.Dr. Frochts contribution us p r e s e ii t ed In this paper can be divided Into three parts. He has improvod the technique of studying stress concentrations. He has found
concontrallons. In addition, bo has formulated theory which embodies and unifies nil the new factors affecting stress concentrations.Improves Techniquetudyj .arent load by
Tho photo-elastic methoding. stress patterns of tnteBt specimens under means of the polarlscopi oretically an Ideal method for tli determination of boundary stress Actually, howover, It 1n
determine botindai.Stress patterns have been obtained from which the fringe order cojv be read to the boundary itself astresses determined within sevei
" It  is weli known  that when piece of metal* is machined, stressset up. on the surfaceknown as machining stresses. The same Is' true fotthe transparent models used In photo-elastic Inves-tlgatlon. Dr. Frocht' has formulated what he terms th "self-correctlng uniformly bright' sliank method.' which automatically in troduces a correction for the machining stresses on the boundary.From tbe optical theory of photo-elasticity it is .knt formly dark shank on a stress pattern from a crossed circular polarIscope represents an integral number.of fringes plus-half. When, however, the test specimen has boundary stresses,, a uniformily bright
Modifies Present Theory It Is assumed at present t stress concentrations atflltetsn a field of .uniform tension or c presslon depend solely i
here, is the ratio of. the maximum stve6s.at the fillet to the uniform stress in the shank.Other factors enter - into the problem beside' the radius of the
ant factor In determining the stress concentration. Again, the manner
ed that when r/d=2 the]
fillet and the width of the shank. This is however, not the cast ____(Continued On' Page Fopn
Christmas Recess 
Begins Saturday
The annuul Christmas vacation will begin Saturday nt 4:30 and will continue until 8:30 -Wednesday morning. January 2, 1935. During this recess no day or part-time
MANY HOLD OUT 
UNTIL NEW YEAR
Lists Arc Not Complete; 
g Seven Fraternities Hold 
Baek Pledges Names
Incomplelo reports from.- .the ;; 
eighteen-social fraternities oa th. 
:ampus indicate-tv great reduction 
in the number of men' pledged Sun
day when the rushees made known .. 
their choice of house. At/a l&t^l hour Sunday ihe reports turned .In.'' showod only 73 had accepted'bidsi;.; 
Tbe renson advanced by tho.varl* ' is fruternlties for. the relatively poor showing was that> the fresh*'
Council Sends 
Becker, Dana 
To Convention
I0th Student Federation 
Conference in Boston 
Set for Dec. 28
the tenth anmtal conference of tho
negio at the congress. Colleges from thirty-four states will send
:Every yop(the student congress
Should students bo their institutions from participating in public, political controversies oi long as.they keep within.the law' Is disarmament conducive to peace' Should the U. S. participate In the 1936 Olympics* if they are held In' Berlin? Is a compulsory and Inclu; slvc campus activity fee deslrnhle? What Is the New. Deal doing forYouth?A number of i public life have^-bcen. invited-1prominent In invited-to be the-Congress' and to adss the Congress' at the formal banquet and during the various plenary sessions,
Goodyear Tire Co, 
Plans Interviews
' Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio, Is sending
tho production squadron, primarily mechanical, industrial and chemical engineers, Mr. Wattcrson of the Bureau of Recommendations asks that all ^en> lors Interested report at ... }r inf0j.matj0n abr>u
Company appolnti........i necessary fo.r the InterA' booklet tftleri"lho '*'Sloi'y of the Tire1 has been received and seniors may have a copy by calling at the office.Information blanks for. the records of tho Bureau and the alumni office have been distributed to the department heads in - the College 3f Engineering and it is essential
made for inter!
i imd. talk things. BO;_____________,_,.Wlttl ^
their parents bofore they pledged .fraternity. Those* men;>ai'd'' expected to accept. n bid. a^er Christmas. Very fow of the menr ; pledged were dormitory men.
The extended rushing soason;'I. this year 'hich 'advanced by some as th reasn for. hooping tho rushees' trom accepting tho bids. They claimed that' y  the rushees had a bettor oprorht-> - ;
y llttlo effect n them. ' ' v'': 
The lists-although voryVlncoiri--  piote at present Indicate that Delta 'Tau I>elln will lendall the frater,- nltlos In thenumber of .pledged.. Sevovnl fra torn! ties haV1
Complete lists of all the pledges  will not be available until-time In the new yoar.  ,*' 
Many consider the rules as used Llils year superior to those whtCh'v.:S^i'.';-gS'- were In . effect last , yeai Theie-. > , <strlcted rushing season which ivog. j xnew to this campus was classlfldd f tasa success bynVanyfraternlty men. 1 V,They claimed it: gave them a better . 51look iqVBrahe-iraHu;^-^-^men and ala gave'- tne ffHhmn; i chance to get around ari '*e 'lt': the houses that they were interest;''' ed In without the rush of tho reg*: . iilar open rushing season. - .
Any fraternity having a charge of-' violation to make should put the. - same In writing, and present it -to-^ tbe president of . Interfraternltp-v! council before January-5, lAsS. 
A.complete . list .of the: menr pledged that were given to the Tar-- - tan up to Sunday night appears'at: tbe bottom of this page,
Williamson Heads 
Carnegie Profs.
Association 3ceks to Analyze / 
Educational Methods
L; A. ji*irAiin - C. A. Malpede.
ALPHA SIGMA PHI 
W. G. Schmucker P.NS. Mellinger R. J.- Jumet  C. G. Frost ibin .
ALPHA TAU OMEGA 
W. vBfeva W. G;.Bri J.. (J.' Wurz-v *>-i H. C' -Blue E). H. Steenburgh J.^-ftJxKercher
BETA SIGMA RHO
J. -Kurtz  ; H. Moscow A. J; Alpem H. ShapiroF. S. Livingston
DELTA UPSILON
W.-JV-Gogglns.....Fv B. Krelder
H. Froehllng
DELTA TU-DELTA 
J. C. Bent SBoydC. E. Blanfovd W. T Collins 
NOTE:
W. T. Deibel L. Napotnlk
W. C. Grau' F. C. Ritzel
W. W. Kuffinan V li Slmh
T. E. Hughes R. M. -Underwood
C. Kopscak K. A.' Van Dyqk *F. B. Maples ' RA. Wetzlg
KAPPA DELTA RHO 
A. Lu Williams N. Shamiutoff . G. C. Emery ' C. F. Bentel '
PHI KAPPA
C. E. LoughnoyW. R. GartzJ. A. Perez R; W.-McGulrA. F. Kfitscher S.. Bedosaiaico -. 
PHI SIGMA KAPPA
W. W. Martin . R. DervaesF. N. Cherico J. B. ReneaUM. Kirk R; E. OLeary,T. W. Kossler
SIGMA PHI EPSILON 
J. F. Steele G.- E. PerrosL. F. Maxwell : T. A. McDowell 
TAU DELTA PHI 
J M. Schwartz F/ T. Simon S. G. Ballln . M. H. CohenL. B: Siff :L .Laurie-v
Fraternities not listed refrained from handing In 11 t of n ^ pledges until It Is complete ^
the Carnegie Chapter of the Amer< lean AssoclulJon of Unlyereity^ Professors. Dr. Hervey.'C-Hicks, as, elected vice-president: Kent D. .
The Association of University-.. Professors is a fact-finding organt*'- zatlon which seeks to analyze the : present methods of college educo---^ tlo'n, what they are, dnd what they:/ ought to be. . 
. One of the most widely publicize - ed actrviiies wf i?ie organisation la v its investigations concerning "the . dismissal of college' professors.'^ .We strive to see that the comp*-..' tent instructors are kept-and the-. incompetent men are dlsnilssed.-' said Mr. Williamson, in explaining.- ^, some of tbe purposes of the -A..;.-
platform
Prof. Williamson U an Instructor in the Department of Physics. ^ He graduated . from Carnegie i.lp:..
Departmentof Mathematics. Mr. Shaffer - Is patlernwork  iniv structor in theDepartment-.. Ql?,;
Dr* Baker Will Give
Christmas Party.Sat*m
Dr. .Bakers annual.Chrlstmdsir-^ party for the children Af'-faoiiitoS.iSa members will be .held.urday afternoon at 3:1i next;In the-E-^ hibltlon Room oftho College^of; 
-Fine' Arts.*' Dr. choree of the affair.
' .The first hour. will .-consist oft games,' under - the -/supervision: ot Miss -Elnert and' girls ;from.the.?D%& partment of SocialWork.: A*. mag& cJan-wilLthen.perforniivTheparty-. wlll.close.Avithr1
ichalig^oifj

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEIE TAHTN..jUESDAY. DECEMBER II, 1934
3Ttic Taruce 3Tartaa
PHONE MAYFLOWER 3
r Cam de Institute e
pwhvdh ,Mge'g
HEBBEBT !____DUDLEY D.________v'Xcivnlca KIiwp, Aana.Lkdd, J;
i GBtaf'HEAD EDITOR;:  ..........
juOTOR EDITORS: - Walter Adamson..Clift 
Lloyd .Mergtm thaler-ii. ;.Ssari, HercvNn 
"REPORTERS :EmlljBald?. Alpha Black. '.mn Brincr. Dorothy Booth. 
Adetnlde Hemlnjrtoo, Katherloe Scbrelbels, Albert
-SFOItTS STAFEs[olllfan, - iene FprscdMD. 
BUSINESS STAFF:^.
: VlSna WhsSerSTATF /XRT1STS:
Inbers.
One Point of View
 __ (Continued from Page One)
you advise to prevent that war? Those are 
; the essential questions behind the peace poll; 
They deal with matters too vital to be ignored.
In all controversial questions, the expound* 
ing of one point of view Is generally helpful 
"in' forming opinions because It provides sometangible, that can either be endorsed-or 
condemned. Therefore we present our point' 
of.view because it Is the only one we sincerely 
believe in. Our purpose in doing this is not 
--a-campaign, for votes. But It is a campaign 
to arouse'opinions, because our prime interest 
lies Ini making this poll a true .reflection of 
thoughtof the entire undergraduate body.
7::  To.dtart the ball rolling we give you our an. ewers to the questions on the ballot and invite 
. you t(^a,gree or disagree with them. In doing 
either you will have perhaps found It easier 
to. arrive at some definite conclusions of your
'-."'VI. -.Do you believe that the United States 
' can'stay out of another great war?
a Basing our conclusion on the experience of 
' the last war, it Is generally known that tbe 
ifiy,^United, Stales entered mainly because of eco-'j^Jiomic .reaspna. .Our economic ties with the 
Allies were, stronger.-that, those wiihthe GerV 
manic Pow^8 and n' we threw in. our lot 
:v;-where we might be able to protect our greatjfcejst^ inves tmen ts. -.
.1': vlt.is aafe to say that if another war were
to break it would be for economic reasons only 
:v|r:.\tb*t-.;Unlted states might be dragged into it.
 ^erefore It 'behooves the UnitedStates, in 
r .;_ntime of war elsewhere, to sever economic conJ'^-.Tiectlona with warring nations and conduct 
lerself In a completely neutral capacity. This 
if ' involve sacrificeit may mean throwing
 .many: people out.of wor_k for a while. But we 
l^^.^tttqrovehl^-'believe that, war la. the lowest, 
vi . most detestable form of human conduct and 
i any sacrifice we make to keep out of it la 
H;::.Vorth' while.
-iv^.Tfiere are other valid reasons wliy severing 
3? economic connections would be a wise mo7e. 
J ''iiThe/warring nations are greatly dependent 
',-iypbn us-.for commodities. If they fail to get 
 .these; the business of carrying on' war bef;' Acomes even more difficult and chances'for a 
peedy end are greater.'
1^ ;,,...Furthermore, It would be distinctly bad busii'rTTtTesij^ Ttrey ure
<- .- toobankrupt to deal on a cash basis and to 
- a loan basis would be plain foolhardi*
aaes.. One lessen we teamed from-io -iast 
^ : ; 'war waa -that war debts are a necessary legacy 
^^of.-wraud are uncollectible any way.
If the border of the United States were 
-;f;. :finvk'ded, woujd you bear arms in the defense
country?  - ............
.Tpe would.
Our main object in refusing,^o bear arms 
l^/.' Wpuld/be to ^preventwar, after other means 
hat?-failed, by refusing to fight-lt. HoTr-ever, 
ife^'Vere/.tlie United States itmuied; it would no 
longer be a case of preventing war, war would 
i';.-.;. have already begun and wewould consider it 
^necessary to, fight, to protect our homes.
' There is. even stun argument, as to whether 
i?^a.-war fought In defense of home and country 
. would be justified. "After all. some w/Il say. 
l!.--.: :?'what difference does it-make which governI'. - xnent rules you 6o long as you are allowed to 
mCiHClive-freely under it?-*
^'Xf -you"are allowed to live precisely in the 
[atyne^manner' as 'before: perbapait makesno 
you be assured of those lib
erties?  And furthermore, such an attitude 
<Jonot reckon with' Jiumau nature. To pre^:^fept''a'war in case of invasion would necessi
tatecomplete non-resistance: That, of course.
v-SK
4j*.':-.ti-[nvnever. be expectedof all the people of thelV-^U#it?d States.. A smalf group; may l^e interna-. 
^' - " tibnAJlstlcflnough Jn feeling to puriue. such a 
Sa^pqlt>r^'j-ftgd . reftlizfng .land..vreepectlngl. their. 
k'^lS^lsm which may' prompt theIr'aq.Uon we 
v atiiUvcannot lgnorA the.' fact that:.the'gl:at me-, 
resist. anvlnvaderj.;clf there Is repfc?e-of any sort, there Is war. and,ol? there 
we.would bear.arms..in,^efen^e;-of our.' 
and families *
^ " UjO WouH y^u^boar armp for ,the I/nlted 
In'itfa.. invaalonvof^eborders^pf.'.an;
[V other country T
|fei^'..vl^e.:.would not..  -> -
^^5^wS.'flInCf$ly: Relieve that with the exception 
^'(Ihe lpfltajiCe'stated fhove,, there is absoluter 
Ir-tt^jjiisyflcAtlonviorwar.j wouldthere:
fled In asking for It And we feel that they 
would be unjustified in any case, except in de
fense againatinvaslon. . \ .
2. Do you believe , that a national policy of
an American -Navy and. air > force 6econd:to 
none .will Insure, u$ against the poselbnities of 
tanother rgeat war?  | .. }  . j
We'jdo not.'
We beilev that, such a pollc/ would dd juet 
the:0pp09itespd the outbreak of the next 
war. Acceding to such militaristic plans would 
do precisely thesis things: '
' .ii', sft'ihe!pa;c6 for an armaments race that 
would go on ceaselessly and strenuously until 
a war put an end to it. jVf/.'.V
. 2. Place a large burden of iaxatlon' unp:n:eJi 
aTreVdyiiayilj taxed jjople. [' &.\
3. Produce "the wrong psychology, .by making lhe^people destinctjy war-minded and na
tionalistic. Excellent' examplea.of. this, .regret
table . Pt#te of affairscan be found in many 
European countries today. '
All tiiese factors decisively spell war. If you 
prepare so strenuously for something It is 
inevitable that It will happen. When, the ques
tion of armaments arises, we-,are interested 
mainly In security, as are most other, nations 
.of the worl?.. Yet European nations have .a 
much greater problem because they border 
upon each' other and so, to be secure, they re
quire a larger amount-of armaments in rela
tion to their size to Ms.
Ours is an entirely different condition. Lo
cated on tbe globe .lu an advantageous posi
tion with . 3,000. miles of,water on both our 
sides and mountain ranges providing barriersat the East and -West, our. problem of security 
is  already ' partially solved. ' With the advan
tages that accrue to us because of our location 
and topography, which make invasion extreme
ly difficult, there is no necessity for us to lead 
the world in armaments.
\ ' ' * *3. Do you favor government control of ar
mament and munitions factories?
We do.
The business of war should be the business 
of governments. Any. Industry so closely and 
directly connected with war such as the manu
facture of armaments and munitions, should 
be under complete government control.
It Is a regrettable state of affairs, yet never
theless true, that powerful Industrialists have 
enough power in their hands to promoto con
flicts when it Is to their advantage. Much has 
been disclosed, through investigations and 
books, about the activities.of. munitions mak
ers. This alone should condemn .them and 
their enterprises. One important object must 
be accomplished if we are to outlaw war and 
that is to "take the profit oui of war.
4. Do' you approve' of the conscription of
capital InAllme of war just as has been our 
historic procedure in drafting man-power In 
time of ^r? .. . *
We do7^
Much fo&the--nswr^bove concerning tak
ing the profit out of-T'tar.applies here,- in' the
Purthefino'eT if we must have war, if 11 
methods of'keeping peace have failed and we 
eventually pulled Into a -conflict, then It 
behooves us to put forth our most efficient war 
organization to bring that war to a speedy 
close. In line with this policy it would in
crease our efficiency to conscript all capital 
necessary to the conducting of war. i
5. 'Do you'think that. In the pursuit of the
stabilization of peace, it would be a wise pol
icy of the United States to enter the League 
of Nations? ,
 We do not.
This Is undoubtedly th most difficult ques
tion to answer.
To begin with, we believe we are justified in 
saying tliat, so far, the League of Nations, on 
the whole, is ineffective. . Nations have been 
known to abide by the dectslons of the League 
60 long as it ..is. to their advantage. If it Is 
not, they withdraw.
People will argue, "How can the League be 
effective with the most powerful nation in the 
woricTnot in tt?''YSt1 the troubles "Uiat1 come 
before the League are almost always Euro
pean or Far West difficulties. They, rarely 
'pertain airctly fo us! 'All the" nations whogenerally become Involved in these problems 
are members'of the League and we must allow 
them to work out their problems for' them
selves.
 K -we are interested in maintaining.peace for 
ourselves we believe it would be wisest fo Vus 
not to meddle in the affairs of-other nations.
We base our conclusions entirely upon as
sumptions. I we were to assume that it would 
be Impossible for us to stay out of a war in 
Europe, then it would become our direct con
cern to se that no war occurred in Europe. 
We might do that by joining the League and 
making it so powerful that no nation or group 
-of nations would dare oppose it. Still there 
would always be the chance that they might. 
Sincewe have already statedthat we would 
not bear arms in a war th which the United 
States invades another country. we cannot en/ 
dorse joining the League and still be congru. Furthermore to be more powerful than any 
nation or group, of nations would meat} lead
ing the world in armaments. The strain would 
be too terrific to undertake. We believe 
that it le impossible for any one nation to be
come more powerful than any group, of na
tions.
If We assume. though, that we can stay out 
of'a.Eurpan -war and we-do assume that In 
ata&werJDgr'the:-'flrBt question, then .theLeague 
holds-for s merely a gamble which we cannot 
ifford to take. ^
Wo 'ifo  not oppose the .existence 'of <the 
-Lea'u:" From an "liternailonrflltlc" stafldpomt. and we do Incline, to^& la^ge .extent to-: 
 ward,nnternationaltsm.i.. mainly, asan.. ideal,. 
 we beltve - that : some:: day.' ln.: the '.future; vper-: 
haps-acentury hence, all tke -inations of ; the. 
world-will be united, in-a common bond ^which, 
will:outlaw war. - The-League of Nations is 
the.only existing body .today thatevenremotely. resembles1.tbat.hond' and as 6uch .it should 
wouldi
Writers ;Row
I sat on a piano stool in the far corner f'the room, my Invisiblecloak enveloping me entirely. I sat there, Inwardly writhing, as I watched the-progress of the house "party, or as the hoBteee. in-varlably termed )t, the little gathering. Although-this
concealed ' ing for tbe fifth allties that-had attended.the four prec.ed-;. ing affairs. .Not Identical in their physical;
.. frequentlyencountered. - I make no comment, but my' eyes aro "soiled to heaven and my soil! lajtortured, 
.ods or gaining attention. With studied the couch arranging Itetself lo the uhcomtlie coach arranging beHelf in the' uncomfortable but attractive-position she has discovered after two hours of twisting In an armchair before a full length mirror. One hand'reaches lazily to the end stable for a clgaret. She languorously lights It, inhales deeply, and 'gracefully crosses her legs. In' two minutes she raises long lashes to gaze through'the thin smoke issuing from her lips into two interested, curious, admiring, eyes. Mmmmh, I'd love it,; she drawls, slowly extinguishes the glowing end of the clgaret in an ash-; tray, rises, beautifully, and gives herself to rhythmic music and waiting arms; -
Bob comes..through the door,, gives the . hostess a spine-cracking hug, throws his hat in the air, and yells,- Whoopee! Wheres the dolls, wheres the liquor, and'
the floor, and grabs the shade from the Chinese lamp. His body^ swathed in the 6bawl and his head encased In the fringed shade,* he exhibits one of hfs original eccentric dances. Ab he. accidentally bumps % glass of punch from the hand of a young
band and with dramatic gestures groyel for her pardon. He rises hastily and with a toss of the head which sends .a drop of perspiration sparkling in the air, be is off to begin the second movement. Realizing
..................... '-isr
he spies what he terms "a nice little tidbit. He dances two or three dances with the "tidbit, but she tires of being merely an opportunity to exhibit some fancy specialty steps. They retire to the sunparlor. Several minutes later during a lull in conversation and music -a. confiding voice Issues from the sunparlor: Yaknow, Grace, Im really very serious by nature.  Too serloufe. Why, Grace, If I didnt relax at parties like this now and 5n, Id probsbly go crazy. Stark, ravlnjjHonest.
.."TJ)%-.aystem iB an wrong!. .Day.after day tht!r.Worker-'is -drivenVffom-'one blind alley to .another. And the only solution, the only solution is communism! Fred brings his-flBt';:down.. hard;^on.; his :pftlnv t?vemphaslzc the point. - Beside himstand two male guests with folded arms and amused eyes. "Communism alone embodies social revolution without adornment or .compromise. It has declared war against all social institutions that stand for enslavement and oppression.
Pardon me, Fred, but wont you-uh-have some punch and sandwiches? the hostess Intercedes anxiously. .
"No, thank you. Where was I? Ob yes!
The only result is the supplying of capitalists and governing tyrants with new . supporters called labor or socialist parties. Capitalism Is far too'powerful. It has no end of means to Intensify exploitation and raise th cost of Hving."
"Wouldnt you boys care to dance? the hostess returns to inquire."No, thanks. Do you men see my point? The systems all wrong, I.tell you. Away with private property!- Downwith the state! Down with the church! Down . . .Simultaneously, "Aw, nuts!
Mildreds left hnd Is clenched with the vehement determination to restrain the two tears which threaten to publicly ,-disapplied ha?- make-up.
But a hope that'pounded in time with her
or Doris, perhaps this time she would know what't say and do to prevent sinking into, the background. The nervous trembling had cme and gone,- the chills of anticipation were superseded by a single feeling of coldness deep Inside her, andshe doesn't care.
. ' A girl dancing by calts, "Hello, Millie!. Didnt see you. Havin a good time?  
"Swell,1' Mildred smiles. "Nice party." Seeing; the hostess approach, she puts 
-Oh. lovely!" she replies. "Everythings . perfect . . . No. really I dont care to dance . . Oh. p'ease don't try! You see. Ira rather tired. Working all day. you know . . . Yes. quite sure, thank vou." Tears once more flood her eyes as the hostess moves away, but she successfully smiles at an acquaintance standing at the serving table. : .
. In the opposite corner of the room two boys are conversing: "Dance with her?I "should say not! Besides. I dont think she wants to dance. Look how contented . s'he seems to be just.Watchlng.. Shed probably refuse. You know, some. people are like that. ... , RUTH 90CHAT0F{iVA|
lii Its aims, so doubt, but. at present w6- 
must, combine our idealism with reallsm and,- 
act accordingly. 'Which means stay out of the: 
L^gue of 'Nations*.  *. : : .
By all means, we shoaia continue to^bend 
all. our efforts to establish, peace, by our. own 
po^militarjistic attitude and by our influence at 
ti^d.'disarmament conferences. . But if. we'conaitfer war unjustified: we must take-care not 
to incur obligations that might lead us into it.
We must.wait-untilpeace 1s assured on the 
European continent, by. the. League or other
wise. Then;, li wlll be time for us to join to 
assure >peace ^between-the -European and North 
American-continent
- :r What a rushing.season . . ; all ye ;GreekS'and what notNever In the hlstory of the school has thepe.been a more belter? 
skelter period.'-When - twelve-o'clock came around'two SigmW 
Nu's' were found, in'the Kappa gig pool room being shown the' 
reasons for becomJng*a brother . . . Delt Gilmore war jiiet puBh' 
Ing tbe bell.at-the;Beta house but no one:would rinswer-1 
The strains' of theimusic by Baron Elliott put four to sleep. In the 
P. K. A house tb'e joke of it all was the fact that when Sunday.mornln'g rolled around, only a couple men showed up in moat - 
houses . . , whos.to blame? . . . could it be smart freshmen or 
poor rushing? ..I ', we hope that all is well on the'western front 
and that there will ,be no mora Care for a cigarette? . .' . 
.May l bold your coat?'or any other chips: and flips that go on 
durlng the get'em,dead or alive week v. . Goo-bye rushing sea
son . . . come again when you cant stay so long.
FIREMAN, SAVE MY BONFIRE . . . The wail heard just before 
the pep rally for the Pitt game . . . Rumor has it that Pitt stu
dents came over and did the dirty deed . . . But oh! what does . 
rumor know? If we only knew that the Sophomore football, man* 
agers were In a movie when the dastardly deed was done we could ' 
accept their.alibis. . . But ho! where were they?
CAMPUS KING .. .A very novel idea has.been conceived by ' 
the'Puppet staff . .and they have it up their sleeves to present 
Carnegie with a campus kink . . . all the. girls at Maggie Murph 
are going to get together and announce just who makes their 
' hearts throb the most . . . Oscar the Hermit is declared ineligi
ble because of his latest hair cut . . . the rest of the beau brum* 
mels feel that they haven't a chance as long as Oscar is in the ' 
running . . . the selection will be made after all tbe girls have 
considered the following questions: . . . Is he tall, dark and 
handsome? Can he tango? . . . Does he wear'gafters? . . . 
Has he a car? . . . Any money? . . . Does he like Children?
. . . and . . . Can he cook? Somehow I feel sorry for the un
lucky guy . . . dont we all? ' '
CAUGHT WITH THE GOObS ... We dont know where Interfraternity Council; prexy Munster has been spending his time late
ly, but it surely smells like news when he returns from Ingram 
with a traffic tig. . The charge: Parking all night.
Mort Leavitt, the wit of tbe swimming squad, thought hed 
break Into prlnt so he locked Clif Boutelle'up in the dirty towel 
basket in the locker room. The only thing that saved Boats ' 
was the combination lock. Mort couldnt close it. y
The Studde Perrysville Road, has created 
a gay and colorful atmosphere for a sries of 
Saturday night dances, beginning December 15th.
^Informal  v:--
'Dancing .beginning e
Finest of Music
75c per person
On Second Thought
Dudley'D. Pendleton, Jr.
Officials of: munitions manufac
turing companies begin again their, 
search for-aliblee' and excuses: as 
(he SehQteig-Special Investigating 
Commlt^^e -sets ..to work after a riecees '..ot! ten weeks.'
^ -One of : the companies under fire at presentis the:Remington Arms. Company' [generally? thought to be manufacturers of small arms for sport' sUone. Thls company, the. testimony reveals Have'been .helping' the United States to keqp Its neutral , positionin the BbllviaBaraguay depute ~by' generously' selling Id' both ' Sides.- Officials denied-that the size of each coun* tyts order 'was revealed to the other, to stimulate sales. ' This, they, said, would be poor business policy.
' Company Fought Embargo -:
Other testimony - and evidence shows that official's of this company secretly fought the arms embargo bill In Washington which would have given ' to the President the power to prevent shipments of arms to warring 'nations. A letter
AmerJc^'Teveals choice' state.: ments duch'as' the following:' ' 
We are thoroughly satisfied thai; I there will. be;no embargo. .We hUve reached some mlghlr high officials in the Government.'There ds>not)-.& ;chance. of {_.. legislation.1 going through, ibecausj I we will know of it before it seta IStarted. ......................
"Mfcrely 'a SalesLetter 
... Jhl'iettr/'sas'iir.-Monaghan.- I was merely-a salealetter,- o?, whether or not tho .statements con-' tlned in this letter are false as Ur ' Monaghan says -theyare/- they ax', a bitter - indictment or the. poU. .cies of. the Remington Arms Coa^ pany. Even if the company did' not loliby for th defeat f this bill which might affect their sales, tie fact'that, they would give their I agents .the ImpreBsIon. that the; 1 were, shows'that'there is little'at' which .these 'Merchants of Death'? will hestltate in order-to-All their I
For Students and Facility
R il  cre s;: 
Reduced
/3
The railroads appreciate the enthusiastic responses of students 
and faculty to the College Special fores which combine econ
omy with the great advantages or rail travelsafety, speed, com
fort and convenience.
If you bought one of the reduced'fare round-trip tickets when 
you came to school this Fall, the coupon is good returning home 
between December 10 and 25. When coming back after the 
holiday, be sure to take advantage of this one and one-third fore 
ticket, the purchase date for which hc^ been extended to January 
16. Diagram below shows going and return dates.
COING TO SCHOOLRETURNING FROM SCHOOL
Going trip mist begin on date tckct is purhasedlimited to
chool station within ten dafs. Returntrip must begin on
date ovalidatin of ticket by rail
limiteto reachm ten day
ways. Stop-overs will be allowed in each direction.
Ticketcoaches, also in Pullman cars, upon payment of
regularPullmanchorges.'Baggagevili be checked under the usual
rgultons. Nocrtificate or other formofidertification necessary.
T R A V E I ill Y. TRAIN
AfiwrinQyoun corrifort with'spaed
CENTRAL PASSENGER /) TRUNK LINE. ASSOCIATION RAILROADS
Lews
..it leaves a clean diy 
asli-no soggy residue or 
lied in liie pipe bo'.d
In the manufdctuie 
of Granger Rough Cut Pipe 
Tobacco the 'Vi'illmm Proccss 
is
The. Wellman Proccss is dif
ferent trom any other process or 
method jnd we hclioc it gi\es 
more enjoyment to pipe smokers.
.. it git ts thi lobaci.fi (t)i ixtiu flaiot and tnnma 
.. / fuaiti the tobauo act 
tight a a pipt.  bum 
sloucr and vnvke coaler 
.. tt malts the toba4.io milder 
  it leat a a clean dry ash 
no soggy rtuduror feel'. 
in the ptpe bcu I 
LIOGETT & MYtRS TOBACCO Cpii;;
Hn -toe covditget
every man who smokes apipe 
iejust iry Granger

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNF.GIE TAU TAN, TUESDAY. DECEMBER11, 193*
THE
TUESPAY 
quarterback
BY JERRY HANSON
Slow Tartan Cagers | 
D rop i o Opposition 
In Pf&ctice Contest
THE -TART ANfCAGEMENWILL OPEN the eason Offlclally:LhlsSaturdaym home gtfme'with'OeorgBttrwiL'-They-dropped: 2-to X point for: 
point against the McKeesport WiUigs Last week. BhowingLhemseWee to 
tie lacking Jn practice. Hugh Ja^nee and BahePattwereplaylng with,': 
only a week's practice behind them, being delayed until, the ilnleta of 
the football season. Charlie Fltzwllson. center, did not see play be
cause of the.lnjury he suffered when he knocked himself out cold 
the ceiling-otitis tuiwel.Iast week. . 
The Willlge also-dished deteat to the Westminster floor equado 
the week-end-. Westminster is second on the Tartan schedule,, to' be 
met on Thursday, January3, at home. The visitors compose a very 
BDappv crew, nnd their style will be worth.watching..
Coach Max Haonum is provJdiDg against the Ineligibility jinx which 
spelled near disaster in last seasons cage activities, so we 
see a first string crew which should be able to play together [or the re^
, jnalnder at the schedule. '
| COACH HANNUM WILL BE THE FIRST attraction on the program 
I of the newly conceived basketball clinic which Js being sponsored by 
I the North Side Athletic Council. H will be a long and well-attended 
| affair, starting at 2 oclock thic Saturday In the Allegheny Y. M .C. A. 4 Local college and high school luminaries with their teams will compose 
$J the exhibition.
i THIS SKIBO SPLASHERS HAVB NOT SHOWN a very good start, for 
i jn the local A. M. A. meet swimming finals not a single fragment of 
the plaid was represented. Von der Lancken got to the semi-finals.
Coach Rlsedorph is very-Pleased with some of the plehe material 
he has to work on. He has a cotiple of, new recruits in swimming and 
diving events who-are his pride and joy, and be foresees a brilliant 
future for the tankers.
CARNEGIE SOCCERITES ARE DOING RIGHT WELL for themselves, 
especially In' holding the oposltlon to overtime periods. In last weeks 
game against Rochester, Independent, Dubln led the charge with two 
goals, and LaMy added a third to make It 3 to 1.
According to reports, there will be neither professional nor ama
teur hockey. In. Pittsburgh thja winter, much to the disappointment pf 
the Carnegie candidates.
,ARALe Mg tgEARAeEtgS tEAl .,tD, lMNAe 'gA .'gTAR
what collegiate sports are coming to. In a mixture of lacrosse, football, 
and field hockey,^yasear suffered defeat by handsome crews from both 
Princeton and Yale last weekthe meanies! Tea was served after the 
each occasion.. How about it, you Maggie Murphs?
McKeesport Combination
Takes Advantages of 
Weak Lineup
SCHEDULE OPENS ON 
SATURDAY EVENING
Georgetown Tirst i InterCollegiate Gases; -Last 
 Until New Year
The practice gam arsity basketball;.trong W. .S. .Willi, port last Friday night ^Indication that ttr 1
shapo for .regular <
Bright Schedule 
A ttracls Plebes
' .Sergeant Sommer - of the Carnegie Rifle .Team
ing,report to. him this week before the start of Christmas' vacation.^ ' The -xifle team' expects to make a trip to AnnappUs .pn . February. 16, to meet acrack . Navy team.- The - Tartanshooters-'will be in top-formfor the meet, and. should be able to .-maintain-.the .-excellent recprd which has.hitherto been'theirs, winning them;
Center Weakened 
One of the. reasons for the poor| showing of the TartanB [fact that .the lineup which has been 'practicing' was"partially'disrupted; due to the injury of Charley Fltzwllson, and the tact that Jai hot had enough practice to get into shape lor a two ,boys,.haveand forth at the position of
he had had no practice at tipping .hall this season.. he Whole . team was playing poorly organized ball, and acted
real, competition, for the Willi
.Meet Wllllgs Again
The WiUigs will be met again t Wednesday for another practii game, and the Varsity wlll.be : better shape by that time to i .
Mai Meets-Start 
After Holidays
Carnegie starts Its eid season of intercollegiate wrestling on January1 second, 3usi ifter  Christmas vacation. In spite otthe'fact that this Is a-comparatively recent ad* dltlon to the Carnegie sports achedestling Is getting a great
quested to report in' the wTestllng
i at the north end of the gymoafum.* ' N ;It is necessary that all those intending to report, do so promptly. The sport Is one calling for skill, and three weeks of training are prerequisite for wrestling In the
STUDENTSWANTED
.. Five hundred Typewriter all makes, Portables and Standards, -sold, Rented, repaired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.'
American Writing Machine Company
801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGHATIentlc 6488 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
compete and all the fundamental Instruction will be given in the preliminary training period. This also serves to. get.tjiose who .wish
; Choose-your Sank 
 as you would choose 
a friend
< compete In to the proper physical' condition [or the sporL
Size, and strength are not necessary'to' go-out' for the-1
tous classes according i
t'eeks before he discovered:.that, not a -German class.ArA piano, radio, or. vlctxola?.
.- "No, -but my: ; ; fountainscratches t Tomahawk.
little' Bometlmee.-
Motor Square -Garden
Presents
America's Leading Dance 
Bands EvaryFr&SaturJay '.
Friday-Saturday, December 14-16 
ANSON rohesW!' "
Collegiate Night
Every Wednesday
willNOW THAT RUSHING SEASON IS OVER the fraternities 
grooming for the Jntramural conteste. A lot of good pledge material 
should brighten up the Brothers aspects for swimming, basketball, 
mushbalTand the sweepstakes. Competition 6hou1d be more balanced
Womens Athletics
MARGIE GREEN
cafltfy and sandwich stands in the 
Ti'alls of the various buildi 
of which makes us realize 
lack of importance on the Carriegie: campus. At least, J"have'given
R Our dear president of W 
certainly did herself proud at the 
dinner last. Wednesday;. in fact, once she started the pall-of discussion rolling, she had
and P. C. W. guests by a go home hint. The W. A. A. may be na: tional, hut by no means is it unoriginal in its Ideal organization.
Carnegie evidently is the only school in the city which maintains a point system oC recognition in sports. P. C. W-, for example, merely - gives a banquet for .the champion team at the end or the vear Whether it includes all the sports combined, or is separate for each I forgot to inquire; after all, what difference would it make ** us, regardless. Then.too, we lea ed that Duquesne women athle manage all school tea dances, thereby reaping plenty of profit, you may be sure. To cap it all, the Pitt girls struck casually informing
speechless by____ _______a of-their four
hundred dollar profit since tli opening df school takenfrom
and -watch '
friends stand by iw up (establish _ A a little doubt: iii ofc-; that foodsland suggestion, however; perhaps, if we can overcomeT-the competition from the Grill Commons, and Sklbo by boycotting their trade, it might--------1to;;RQmething.
^o get back to some local news, $ Interclass ..111' take plac. . following girls have been selected
. Betty Mjackey,___ ______ Kerr; sophomores,Louise Wunderlich, Myrna Orris, and Adelaide Remington; freshFlorence Marti, Mary Cromwell Susan Kyak, and Louise; Pace. Betty Lehr bowled the high1 gam< of the season with d score of 156, while Mary Cromwell howled-the next high, 132. Betty also has the highest average, *89, with Eleanor Sherman coming ------------- v
The flrs 
night
actual intercollegiate. J___ _.jxt Saturday1 -the Varsity, meets the
The preliminary game before the Varsity encounter next week will be between the Plebes . and the Lawrence Paint team. This game should prove to be an interesting : of the ability of the Plebes,
radionouncer and sports, fan.
- Shakeup Pending With regard to the lineup for the jening game with Georgetown next _aturday Coach Hannnm says that there Is a wholesale shakeup pending. Although there had been
satisfactory, and who thought that they had positions cinched are going, to have flght on their hands to make
prospective flrst-strihg consisted of Capt. Ted Rlgg and Johnny Ewalt at guard, Cy Felser and Hoot Gibson at the forward positions, and Fitzwilson and ' James alternating at center. Whether or not this lineup will be continued depends upon develonments this week,
IN
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
New York $7.50 $13.50 
Chicago... 8.50 15.30 
Detroit. 5.50 9.90 
Bolton 10.00 18.00
and
all. points  vfrom  coast 
to coast.
For further 
information call
COurt Mayy
HOME FOR-fliE
/ mmmkm  
hoi umt
yOU/L
QICKLYWECONOMCALLY
Dont spoil the thrill of getting .home again by worrying 
about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by 
leaving everything to Railway Express, : We will Call for 
your., trunks, baggage end personal belongings and seh^ 
them home on ast passenger trains through to destination. 
You can take your train home wi th peaceof mindknowing 
... - that your baggage -will be there quickly and safely. Railway 
Express service means economy. : We give a'.receipt on 
.' pick-up arid take, a-recipt on,delivery_.>-.do^
' .'swift^.sure handling. If you caiinot go home,r.sendjyqur 
presents; to' your Cmily-n Mendsby'Raiiwy.Exprss, 
For service.or infoni)ahon merely call\orr'telephone
026 Penn Avenue' 
ATknticSflOO ^ Pittsburgh, Ea.
The best tharm i* in trn*porUtiaa
SERVING THE NATION FOTf S V1ARSRAILWAYEXPRESS;
AGENCY, Inc. |
NATIONWIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN,. .TUESDAY, .PECEMBEg^jJvlgMv.
For StudSSe
CARNEGIE 
P t I D
Page edited by Night School rttidw
sEditorial Board-o(
 H. INGRAM 
WILLIAM E. 11AK
Seasons Greetings
. Since this is'the last issue of the '* plaid that will be edited until after ' the Christmas vacation, lh<rStau : wlsheB to take this opportunity to wish the entire night student body t a very enjoyable holiday season.Thevacation period represents a ; ' well deserved rest' for ell of us, and i . an., opportunity to catch up on me STBtislgaments that have been neg* '.. lected during the hectic first halt of th semester, in addition it offers 
*  good chance to take slock of selves as it were, and plan : /campaign for the ^balance of the V school year so that we may-be able to utilize the little time we bav available to tho best advantage. The' members of the staff hope that the night students will con: tinue to show the same fine co-operation during the balance of the school year that they have glvn H; since the beginning of the tern
NIGHT LIGHTS
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
You're'Telling'M? 
That this week will see. the last 
or text books etcetra until after, 
well, you know when. However, in 
order not to beguile us Into think
ing that all our worry Is over, our 
profs, have eeen to It that we: are 
wellsupplied with fodder for 
thought, or should I say WORK'
That the n tan will appe starts so, in a lleagu
of Ii Tarr after the New YearT2a7T..iSali of you the very best greeting*
Engineers 
Plan Dance
Plaid Introduces J. SchurkoC 
Treasurer of Arts College
Dr. Max. M. Frocht Will Present 
Discoveries t A.A..S. Convention
New Member of Council 
Worked on Staff of 
: 1933-34 Thistle v
Town Tattlers to Play 
At Yuletide Event
PUBLIC IS INVITED
In keeping with the policy of 
giving weekly a short history of a 
member of the Night Student.Couni 
cil/w.e are introducing Air. John 
Schurko.
This is Mr. Schurko's flrst yeor 
a member of Council,-and It Is felt that, under the guidance of the veteran members, Mr. Schurko will soon be able to discharge any ol the many varied duties that ar<i necessary-to the, proper function* g of Council.
Mr. Schurko is registered in the Department of Architectural Do1 sign and provodhls ability last year Inning tile poster contest that instituted by the College Arts. He has been very tlve In the field of activities for eral years having two pins .to his credit. Mr.. Schurko did ver>as a member of tho Thistle Iasi year and he has ippointed to the editorship of that irgan by the present Council.
: ihltch Fisher would like to know what he has to be thankful for when he had to^work on Thanksgiving Day . . That New KensingJuDch finally satisfied themselves the otbw day that the cay : making the left turn has the right ~ of way, but the issue was very : close!! . . . Leonard Smith, a litJtle chap who turns the scales at about. 210 pounds, plays in the Lightweight Conference . . .His XiiTia Mater is tho Morningslde football team, but his hobby 
tropical fish Relta BerV. Two_________:enbushs car'-da,.her father cam home ]with his
r lightiy demolished, tsk, tsk. 
. Can't .  ~though
actly call them wreckless
; that those ' little, white, animals -sominonly seen along the floor are ,,lnbtiis, ... Here Is the Bad end of a few' of the,,former Council presidents: B E. McDonald Is-----
........Another ex, James SansonetU,has given up art to put food on the - table . . AI Lois doesn't; let a little thing like graduation interfere with his college career . . . he is back In Engineering.
Decorations to Conform to | 
Spirit of Xma6 Season
Bill L6 Roy and his Town Tat-1 tiers have been secured to furnish the. music for the Night Collge of Engineering Christmas Dance. The affair will be held on Saturday eve-1 ning, December 15 in Thistle Hall.
The Town Tattlers need little introduction on the campus, having played recently for the Tech-Duke football dance. During . the suminonths the band filled an engagement at Ludington, a Michigan
mittee has completed the decorative schemes for the dance. They wlll.be in keeping] with the Christmas Spirit. While
the decorations.The officers of the College of Engineering wish to call the attention of the Engineering Students to the fact that admission will be by regDidja Notice
THAT therells an Arts student so dumb that he thinks, a Puppet Is a small-dog.THAT the Engineers are about to hang up their socks at the Christmas dance. * THAT the family cow swallowed Reginald, the Rovlng'Reporter's trousers. Tie said that.......... .. play hookey.THAT that's that, and Ill be
Head Coach Eitner Lay den of | ends. . olre Dame Is using a new. system of drilling the Irish thlB year. They do their drills to the melodies of Ray Shields, N. B. C. musical dtLaydeh belleveB that music will I och the players proper co-ordl-1
JVit Sigma Alpha Plans 
To Hold Dance Dec. 29
annual anniversary of the founding of Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity will be celebrated, with a , dance on December, 29. 1934:af the' Penn Lincoln 'Hotel, WilkinsK^One'of the most successful affairs - 'given by the fraternity was held : three years ago at tho Penn Lincoln ' and'the committee hopes to dupll' "cate this success again on December 129.
and tho evening will be term!* baled with the anniversary dance.' " 'A cordlal invitation; is extended  to'ell Carnegie students-to attendthe -aifalr  Invitations will-be mall. ed out shortly. _________
Reginald Raises Issue 
With Student-Council
Note from Reginald to the ed. ;Say Mac-1 hate to bring this .up. ' seeing as how it was'the Council  and allthat:<but why in the name ;assludenb  governnlent did theboyB' have-to ga-and hold, up the dance Jiit toget their picture
of comici ! IllinoisUniversitys putyicaTech Barber Shop
- Craig and Forbes 
Oakland :
_ applied, dimensions of head, of support-rare altered, the factor of stress concentration may greatly increased.
From his observation Dr. Frocht
function of r/d, but is also a function of the ratio of, the uniform stress in the .shank to the bending stre^es produced at the fillets by the end conditions.
Valuable to Englm His experiments have led him
; importanl of these defines the'factorof>8trees concentration in terms of the greatest stress whether that be the uniform stress In Uhe ,sha'nk..jor _thestresses due td ^benalngLA -set--.of -curves Is obtained irom which :aii upper limit for. thelfactors of stress concentration Is determined: -!Tii6 upper limit whe.p coriih!ne^ :'with;ithe Invariant curves,  which represent the lowfer limit, gives a .zone^'containing all possible . actors )0f: stress concentration for fillets subjected to direct arid'beddJng stresses., It' is believed 
this zotie'-will bib ^ynd useful to engineer/and designers.
Mr. Mi'%; .Le7en!/'lQilght school stude'nt at'Carnegie,-has In tne laboratory worn.
Workers Asked to 
Return All Tools
The students who assisted in preparing for the Thanksgiving Dance are requested lo return the tools borrowed for this work to the Night Student Council office.
N.S.C. Lauded fot 
Holiday Function
The .first, hi^ event of the year ig 
finished.''-EveiyoneVwaB there with 
their friends. The Coancll was 't 
vn mdsee .and. ad their^ pictures 
taken. vn th fcut turned out 
this gala event. Need.
the night students to.terpslchoreaa (see previous issue) endeavors. The Social Committee, as usual,' did lliemselves proud on .the decorations. The corners were drape*
oiled and' the: committee took
The above photograph she the ratio r/d Is not the only fact Influencing stress eoncentratloimpu Campus
pattern Ulustee the Influence whlch_the proxity of the pin through which theload Is applied has on the factoi
are more inmates in lnlums in the country than i college students._______
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
HIGGINS'
American
I DRAWING INKS
"THE OAKLAND 
BANK
?
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
s s

MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
than any other circuit breakers so far devel-. .oped. In appearance,- the;brenkers oro com- pletely different from previous breakers. They resemble great EV ' lying on their faccs. They will be used at a higher voltage than any other breaker. They are rated to interrupt the - circuit in slightly more than one-third the time required by previous high-voltage breakers. The most startling fact about tne breakers. that the compless than the oil which would be required by
TALKING TOWERmpulee typo of breakci
The highest self-supporting tower in the United Stales used as an aerial is now in operation' at General Electrics radio station KOA
it. The
developed by General st for clcctric railwav >ved highly successful.
: fro. thee copper wires are stretched ia clothesline fashion between two towers. It will act as a vertical radiator of radio waves. With the clothesline antenna, a large part of the clcctric energy released flows dircclly ipward nnd is lost in epoce, whereas with the '" ' 'gor quantity uallel to ihe
i
md is lost in epace, where new type of radiator at KOA, a larg of the broadcast virth'e
Slender.rith otherand their studies this year with the reassuring thought that a good part of their expenses will be taken care of by fellowships granted .them by the Charles A. Coffin Foundation, whichd a wind of 125 miles an hour, and eight is carried by four hugc porcel which insulate it from the ground, 
antenna was installed this eummei in with a new 50,000-watt Gcni
tabliehed by Gem ol its hrst presidi
The fellowships ----- --------- ..Charles Buehl, Brooklyn Polytechnic Ii 32, M. S.  Technology,WhiJ
ited to: Russell
RECORD-BREAKING BREAKERS' 
The 2B7,500-volt transmission lines from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles will be protected by eight General Electric eupcr-speed impulse oil circuit breakershaving higher ratings
ludy at M.I.T.; Milton G. !, llT'of California, 31, to continue study there; Bascom Henry Caldwell, Jr., U. of Texas, 30, to study at Yale; Thomas Benjamin Jones, Johns Hopkins, 33, to continue studv there; Sidney Kaufman, Cornell, 30, to continue study there; Leonard Trainer Pocknag, Stanford;. 33, to continue study there; Arnold Byron Steiner, Stanford, 33, to continue stuay there;, and Clark C. Stephenson, U. of Kansas, '32,. to study at the U. of California. All the fellowship winni on irivcstigatic * ' '
OwPwf^ s^AVhyrfmyC
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
{ STUDENT NIGHTS!
i every Wednesday and Friday i
/eaiur/ng Will Rystianek IIand h^ Schenley Dance Band I 
r;.irom Ten until Two 
;; with Breakfast at Midnight |
'  . I
Special Rates to Student Parties 1
:Foruiionnation^.feIepKoneMA-flowei6400'  
FORMAL DANCE SATURDAY NIGHT
2vm-^f Der peraonv
a minute
hens wkal she xmokes
ULBGEST SELECTION-OP PORTABLE AND 6TANDABD-S1ZED
TYPEWRITERS 
- $14.95 to $75.00
' FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.' <4 LIBERTY AVENUE 
EetablEahcd. over twenty yean.-
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
6023 FORBES STREET ;
First Trinity 
Lutheran Church1 ' Neville' Stmt,: Near? Biymrd A. G.T MZHKENS,-Poatqr, 
tir LoaUd Ur Tedi.
a word
to the wi$e
Nows the .time to.get into. 
a huddle with th . family , 
Christmas a in Ihe off* 
inc. Telephone tonight*
 ,r \U i>rd in time may make. 
the difference between a .
; set of Dickens or a tenor, 
^.^-banj; under the Cliriet* - 
mas tree j
 Call lOO}TntIe* for 60 cent by Hay. 
Rat{ f^50 ccniM by Evening .Ratef 
' far US ccntu Night Rat. (Station to 
Station caU*  9minule connections.)
The Bell Telephone Company f Pennsylvan
