Vol. IX. No. 25Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaMarch 25, 1915
NEW SH00L CUSTOM ESTABLISHED
PLEBE QUALIFICATION DAY IS HOW TRADITION
WIRELESS AERIAL 
HAS BEEN (RELEED
Vol.Ca rn e.ngiI sIti uf Tnc s.lIh
nrltC ynairi,irunP
The results of months of planning 
and persistent work were accom
plished Saturday afternoon, when, 
after a hard mornings work by an 
industrious crew of studeuts, four 
wires were hoisted over the hollow 
containing the B. & O. tracks and at
tached to the chimney of the Insti
tute power house and the tower of 
Machinery Hall. There is now a 
visible bond uniting the Carnegie In
stitute on the one side and the Insti
tute of Technology on the other.
For over a year the Radio Club has 
planned the present span, but many 
obstacles have had to be overcome 
and settled. The question of the 
strength of the chimney, the aesthetic 
appearance of the antennae, the de
sign and strength of the rigging at 
the ends were only a few of the de
tails that had to be thought out. How
ever, permission for the use of the 
stack was finally secured last week 
and active preparations were com
menced at once.
Quite a crowd lined the bridge all 
morning and watched the work of the 
steeplejacks and the members of the 
club. The four wires were carried 
over from the Machinery Hall end 
and attached to a spreader under the 
chimney which was later hoisted and 
attached to a band at the top. The 
total distance from spreader to 
spreader equals 660 feet, giving some 
twenty-eight hundrd feet total length 
of aerial. This length is exceeded by 
very few wireless stations in the coun
try. The height above the tracks is 
two hundred feet at the chimney end.
The wire used is of silicon bronze, 
a special antennal wire of great 
strength and lightness. The whole 
amount of wire in the aerial weighs 
only ninety-two pounds. At the far 
end, each wire is insulated for a po
tential of 400,000 volts, by two eigh
teen-inch insulators connected in 
series. At the other end a ground of 
four wires running along the earth 
under the aerial will be provided as 
well as a lightning ground of very 
heavy wire. As the leads were being 
brought down from the tower a 
rather heavy dose of static was se
cured by one of the students, even at 
this season of the year.
The expenses connected with the 
erection of the aerial have been borne 
entirely by the Student Activities 
fund. However, the school has now
bunirn,.v un Mtg. 4
The Plebe Qualification Day exer
cises of March the 19th mark the es
tablishment of a custom which is new, 
purely original, and precisely sym
bolic of the Institutes motto, My 
heart is in the work, and, upon the 
other hand, one which attests to the 
spirit of the Design and Science 
schools, be they considered as a schol
astic division or as a unity in the 
adamantine bond of Tech brother
hood. This ceremony, although in an 
embryonic state, was presented in a 
manner which was indeed laudible 
to the partakers and class officers; 
and which, with the correction of each 
succeeding year will eventually 
emerge into a custom which will be 
known as a truely Tech conception 
and one which will be named as the 
first of the .Institutes ceremonies, 
serving to engender a firmer and 
purer class union. The purpose of 
this exercise is to establish a definite 
date and method for the disposal of 
the wearing of the regulation Plebe 
hat and tie. After this date and cere
mony the first-year men are no longer 
bound by the regulation Plebe rules, 
and at such a time they come into a 
full membership of their class, un
checked by any traditional bands.
Friday morning the casket was 
placed in the central corridor of the 
Design School and presented a scene 
which, had it not been for the gay 
Tartan Plaid which draped the cas
ket and the joyful song and spirit 
of the Plebe class, might have im
pressed the unknowing passer-by as 
a last honor reverently bestowed upon 
a great personage. Here the casket 
rested all day, supported upon richly 
draped standards, bearing all the ear
marks of a state occasion. At either 
end of the bier two candelabrums 
bore burning candles, while groups 
of mourners' gathered about the 
bier singing Dirges Its a Long Way 
to Tipperary, Slav War Songs and 
a great variety of more appropriate 
and effective love songs. It was a day 
long to be fresh in the memory of 
the students.
The exercises began at 3:30 Friday 
afternoon, being briefly as follows: 
The line of march lead from the 
Science to the Design school, being 
headed by the Tech band, which is 
always equal to every occasion. Im
mediately following the band marched 
the six pallbearers lead by E. H. 
Beckman of the Sophomore class of 
the Design school and T. E. Orr of
the Senior class of the Science school. 
Garbed in the white, uncanny robes, 
similar to the Klu Klux Clan of the 
South, the pallbearers bore the 
casket gayly decorated with the 
Plaid Tartan colors over the top of 
which was placed a wreath and the 
Sophomore token which wta Cti.r 
presented to the Freshman class. 
Next in line were the Seniors, Juniors, 
Sophomores and last but by nu m.tna 
least on that occasion, the high-spirit
ed Plebes.
The line of march lead iu the tiIh
letic field where the ceremony took 
place in front of the grandstand. sI. 
first step in the procedure of the ver
bal part of the ceremony was given 
by Mr. T. E. Orr, A. S. 17, who de
livered the following address uf tlh
ceptance iu iI. Plebe class as t body: 
MrP Orra R.mtrkaP 
Fellow-members of the Design and 
Science Schools of Carnegie:
The importance of this occasion in 
the life of the schools cannot be ex
aggerated. We have assembled here 
today to inaugurate a custom which 
we trust will endure throughout the 
life of Tech. As we look into the fu
ture we can see the students who are 
to follow us assembling each year for 
the repetition of this rite which marks 
the formal acceptance of the entering 
class to the duties and privileges of 
student brotherhood. We should con
sider ourselves fortunate in being 
present at this initial exercise. This 
custom which we inaugurate today 
will have a two-fold effect, not only 
will it bind these two schools to
gether into a more complete unity, 
but it will promote a new spirit of 
fellowship among us all.
Nearly six months ago today there 
entered here the men of the class of 
1918. They came from many states, 
each with a different conception of 
student life, but they had a common 
goal, a technical training. We recog
nized your failingsparticularly did 
we feel how far short you fall from 
the class that had immediately pre
ceded youbut we accepted you on 
trial with the hope that contact with 
us might make you worthy of fol
lowing in our footsteps. During those 
six months, following the same tasks, 
engaged in hard work common to all, 
through our guidance that class has 
become cemented into a firm body, 
whose feelings and sentiments reflect 
to some degree the true spirit of the
bunirn,.v un Mtg. 7
LECTURE BY MRS. 
STOKES IN THEATRE
SpC.nvrv S,ll.aa Slur.v bc bP yP sP 
Vlunumrl Sulr.icP
Those who failed to hear Mrs. Rose 
Pastor Stokes at the Design Theatre 
last Thursday afternoon, missed a 
real treat. Mrs. Stokes spoke on 
What the Socialists want and why 
they want it, and presented her ar
guments with clear, concise, and well 
directed statements.
About 300 people assembled as the 
guests of the C. yP sP Economic So
ciety, under whose auspices Mrs. 
Stokes spoke. She was introduced by 
Mr. H. C. Long, of the English De
partment App. Sc., who was the chair
man of the meeting.
Socialists are of many kinds, said 
Mrs. Stokes, in part. They parallel 
the famous 57 varieties. Which vari
ety are you? Mrs. Stokes then pro
ceeded to explain the fundamental 
demands of the organized Socialists. 
These were divided into two main 
headings. First, municipal land own
ership; and second, the public owner
ship of industries in general, particu
larly the natural monopolies.
Under the first heading, she com
pared land to air, in that everyone 
must have both if one is to live on 
this earth. One cannot live without 
air, and one cannot live in space or 
water. If one man holds much valu
able land, he can and usually does, 
force those who wish to live upon his 
land, to pay an unreasonable price 
for the privilege. If you protest, he 
tells you politely to get off the earth. 
Such a condition, said Mrs. Stokes, 
is absurd, and yet it exists as we 
well know.
In discussing private ownership of 
industries, Mrs. Stokes drew a sharp 
comparison between the treatment ac
corded the hired workmen and that 
given to the property of the owners. 
In a certain mine which Mrs. Stokes 
recently visited, she was impressed 
with the abominable way in which the 
miners were treated, and the splendid
Continued on Page 6
bTeVNDTRP
sI,ravtc, MtrlI 25iIP
Baseball practice, gym.
Design Junior Smoker, Design Bldg., 
8:00 P. M.
Frrvtc, MtrlI 26iIP
Baseball practice, gym.
Performance of You Never Can 
Tell, Design Theatre, 8:15 P. M. 
Vacation begins for Science, Indus
tries, and M. M. C. S.

---------------------------------------------------

Stye (Tartan
iCj. tritn
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Vvriur-rn-bIr.f
Edwin S. Rauh, 15.
Phone; Schenley 543.
B,arn.aa Mtntg.r 
Arch H. Cowan,, 16 
Phone, Schenley 9167. 
Mtntgrng Vvriur 
W. H. Searight, 16 
N.wa Vvriura 
Wm, M. Sheldon, 15
E. G. Hamilton, 17 
TiIC.irl Vvriur 
Henry Levy, 15.
Vvriura 
Marguerite Spilman, 15 
Anthony Kerin, 17Carl F. Peters, 17 
P. N. Bossart, 16 H. L. Heilman, 16 
Taaulrti. Vvriura 
Marguerite Menges, 16 W. M. Swan, 18 
M. J. Wohlgemuth, 16 Geo. A.Cook 18
C. B. Coe, 16.
PITTSBURGH, PA., MARCH 25, 1915
bOMMVsysyON FOR 
RVMORsVRSP
The spring competition for the 
positions as reporters for the Tartan 
will open with this issue. The com
petition is open to all students of all 
the schools and will run until June 
1st. It is not only desired that the 
first year men come out for these 
positions but second and third year 
men as well. Experience or training 
in this line is not required. The abil
ity to write good English in a clear 
and concise form, combined with the 
capability of the contestant for secur
ing unusual news of interest to the 
readers of The Tartan will be the 
determining points. Contestants are 
requested to give their name and 
school to any member of the Tartan 
Board. Contributions should be left 
in the Tartan boxes in the various 
schools or at the office of the Tartan 
each Monday before ten-thirty oclock 
for publication, if so desired by the 
editor. The decisions will be made 
on the number and quality of the ar
ticles received.
T bOMMUNybTsyONP
The Editor of the Tartan.
Dear Sir:
What has become of the Science 
Club Room Committee? In past years 
the committee has been very much in 
evidence and by putting forth a little 
effort they have always managed to 
keep the club room in a very present
able condition. Such, however, has 
not been the case this year, for the 
rugs are becoming worn, several 
pieces of the furniture are badly in 
need of repairs, the magazines which 
were ordered last fall, and which are 
a most valuable asset of any club 
room have failed to appear lately. The 
only explanation of such a condition 
of affairs seems to be that some of 
the members of the committee are not 
on the job. For one, and I know I 
voice the sentiment of a great many 
students, I would like to see the club 
room put in a more civilized looking 
condition.
A Student.
T NOsTBeV TNNyVVRSTRYP
March the 19th marks the anniver
sary of the voyage made by the re
nowned United States battleship 
Oregon around Cape Horn. When 
it became evident the war with Spai 
could not be averted this old mon
arch of the ocean was ordered from 
San Francisco, where she was built, 
to the Atlantic Ocean. A long and 
eventful trip ensued, the Oregon 
leaving San Francisco upon March 
19, 1898, arriving at Florida, May the 
24th, having made three coaling stops. 
During this voyage she consumed 
4,155 tons of coal and made a run of 
14,706 knots. At the battle of San
tiago in June of that year the Ore
gon was enabled to take a front 
position in the pursuit of the fleeing 
Spanish fleet, and due to her superior 
speed she was the center-head of the 
war.
And yet if we pause to compare her 
with the latest addition to our war
ships the Pennsylvania, such com
parisons seem remarkable. Not only 
has our navy increased in number and 
quality of ship construction, but the 
type of vessel has been so complete
ly altered, that the two ships are 
scarcely similar in any way other 
than the fact that they float.
Then, upon the other hand, why 
should our navy not be ever im
proved and increased? When we con
sider that more than 8,000 islands 
now float the American flag represent
ing a total population of 10,000,000 
people, and that the imports from 
these islands form our basic supply 
of spices, coffees, and the likethen 
the persons so acutely opposed to a 
larger and more effective navy lose 
ground for argument. Senator JP 
Hamilton Lewis of Illinois has placed 
the matter before the press and peo
ple in a precise manner. He says, 
The United States has but one of 
two courses from which to coose. 
Either we must leave the Philippines 
and remove our governmental inter
ests there or maintain an Atlantic 
fleet large enough to cope with com
bined Europe; or we must maintain a 
Pacific fleet strong enough to combat 
the combined Orient. In regard to 
Japans apparent attitude to a seizure 
of China, he says, Japan could exact 
from her allies, England, France, and 
Russia, a mighty support against any 
action the United States might take, 
for Japan is closely and uniquely 
bound to these three countries, either
by treaty or alliance. Here is food 
for thought and problems for our 
statesmen. G. A. C.
T eVssVR FROM MROFP WURsSP
S. S. MANOA (At Sea)
February 17, 1915. 
To the Editors of The Tartan, 
Carnegie Tech:
So far our trip has been uneventful, 
though full of interest. We left 
Pittsburgh February 2nd for Chicago, 
via P. R. R., and from there made a 
most comfortable trip to Santa Bar
bara, Cal., via Santa Fe, arriving there 
on the morning of February 6th. Al
though we saw little snow, the cold 
followed us all the way into New 
Mexico, when, turning north into 
Southern California we were sudden
ly ushered into great orange groves 
with a delightful climate and temper
ature something like our month of 
May. We spent a week resting at 
Santa Barbara at the foot of the Coast 
Range, rising five thousand feet right 
out of the sea.
We then followed the coast line of 
the Southern Pacific R. R. to San 
Francisco, arriving there February 
14th. I saw the fair grounds from 
the Golden Gate Park side; also from 
the water front. The buildings and 
coloring are wonderful, but, as is 
usual in such cases, the fair is far 
from finished. The temperature in 
San Francisco was cool and at times 
cold on the shady side of the street, 
but in the sun, too warm for an over
coat. While hunting up my trunks I 
was caught in a great cloudburst, 
which flooded the streets from curb 
to curb. One of the sights that in
terested me was the strings of autos, 
mostly Fords, running up and down 
the streets at a 5c fare in competition 
with the street cars. I am told that 
this has been going on for two 
months. So it is too early perhaps 
to decide what the result may be, but 
the autos were always fullsome 
people were sitting on the mud 
guards. Another thing that struck 
me was the great beauty of the shop 
windows and nowhere have I seen 
such attractive shops.
When I was in San Francisco, five 
years ago, whole blocks were still in 
ruins as a result of the eartquake, but 
now only an occasional empty lot 
filled with bricks and scrap iron is 
left to tell the tale.
Promptly at five oclock on Febru
ary 16th we backed out into the great 
harbor of San Francisco and made 
for the Golden Gate. We passed 
among other battleships, the famous 
Oregon. Then we slid by the beau
tiful fair grounds and out into the 
open sea and headed for Honolulu. 
But hardly were we over the bar than 
we plunged into a heavy sea and head 
wind. A mighty wave lifted our steel 
ship on high and then dropped it with 
a terrific crash. Many thought we 
had struck a sand bar. The captain, 
with a perfectly straight face, said 
that we had cut a whale.
February 21st. Since the second 
day out the weather has been delight
ful and the voyage quite uneventful. 
The ship is fair in all its appointments 
and the mate is excellent. A portion
of the deck is netted off for baseball 
and other games and there has been 
fun for all.
In my next I shall hope to give you 
some description of Honolulu and 
my surroundings there.
A. J. Wurts.
sHV BVTNVRY ONbV MORVP
Editor of the Tartan:
The remarks of A little service, 
please, has become a little too nec
essary during lunch time in the Bean
ery. A sudden rush at the counter 
frequently finds one lone man en
deavoring tb satisfy the wants of the 
hungry line as to both meat and 
vegetables at the same time. The 
other restaurant employes will have 
previously been sent out to gather up 
trays, and the manager will be seem
ingly indifferent as to the desires of 
the patrons for quick service. If all 
the help are needed to gather in the 
trays, the obvious remedy would be 
to employ two more students, whose 
sole function should be to assist those 
behind the counter. Since the em* 
ployees are only remunerated by a 
free meal for fifty minutes work, it 
certainly would not break the finan
cial resources of the Beanery to in
crease the number of students em
ployed, while it would certainly in
crease the efficiency, and might be the 
means of saving some poor fellow the 
price of a meal. Who has not en
tered a large store and seen many of 
the employees standing idle? These 
are provided in the contingency of a 
sudden rush of patrons, so that no 
one may be kept waiting. Sufficient 
service is provided for the maximum 
crowd and not for the average. The 
Beanery management might well take 
this lesson to heart with profit.
Furthermore, why pay one-quarter 
the price of a whole meal for an ex
tra glass of milk or a dish of beans? 
We are assured that the Beanery is 
not run for profit and such would 
seem to be the case from the quantity 
and quality of the food served, but 
the gain on extra dishes at the above 
rate is a little too obvious. Milk 
wholesales at less than six cents a 
quart. One glass holds eight ounces 
to a quarts thirty-two. A profit oftwo hundred and thirty per cent, 
seems just a little large for a restau
rant run solely in the interest of the 
students. Surely, some plan could be 
arranged that one could obtain extra 
helpings at at least one-half of the 
present exorbitant price.
A Student.
bOTbH SsVFFVN bOMyNGP
The mere announcement of the fact 
that Coach Steffen will be back with 
us on April the first should arouse 
the interest of every Tech man who 
intends to take part in football this 
coming year. The coach will be back 
at the old stand the first Monday 
after recess, ready to do business with 
all our future gridiron stars. For any 
further information see Capt. Lauer, 
Manager Henning, or Scout Benny. 
Spring training was not only a nov
elty but a success last year. Lets 
make it more so this year. All out 
for the first call for football candi
dates.

---------------------------------------------------

artatt3
STYLES UP TO THE MINUTE
QUALITY GOOD 
PRICES RIGHT
STOEBENER
MTN WysH sHV SHOVS
6227 Penn Ave. 6222 Frankstown, East Liberty
FyRSs eVbsURV GyVVN BY 
MROFP HOWVRP
On Wednesday, March 17, the first 
of the six lectures on Radio-telegraphy 
was given by Prof. Hower. The lec
ture covered the fundamental prin
ciples of the wireless, especially that 
portion relating to the form of wave 
used in radio-transmission.
Our earliest recollection of wave 
forms is that of the water waves and 
the rope waves. Another commonly 
known form of wave is that propa
gated in a spring which is set vibrat
ing. The form of the wireless wave 
was very clearly shown by means of 
the wave machine. The wave length 
of any wave was shown to be the vel
ocity of propagation divided by the 
number of vibrations per second or 
the frequency. The waves given off 
by a luminous body are transverse vi
brations in the ether. The wireless 
wave is a wave of exactly the same 
characteristics except that the wave 
length is much longer than in the 
case of the light waves.
Prof. Hower dwelt at some length 
On the auditory and optic nerves as 
receivers or detectors. The sub
ject of resonance was then taken up 
Prof. Hower remarking that the uses 
of resonance in radio work would be 
treated more fully in the succeeding 
lectures. Resonance was illustrated 
by means of two similar tuning forks, 
the waves sent out by the one setting 
a similar tuning fork in vibration. This 
phenomenon is called also that of 
sympathetic vibrations or as was 
quoted by the speaker two hearts 
that beat as one. If two vibrating 
bodies do not have the same period 
of vibration there will be produced 
what is called the phenomenon of 
beats, that is the vibrations at one 
period of time will be reinforced while 
at another time the effects will be 
counteracted so that the vibration at 
that instant will be destroyed as it 
were.
Radio waves do not require a ma
terial medium for their propagation 
as do sound waves. The non-mater
ial medium for the propagation of the 
wireless waves is called the ether.
About 1860, Michael Faraday con
ceived the idea that when an electric 
discharge took place there were vi
brations set up in the ether, which 
were propagated in all directions. 
However, owing to his lack of mathe
matical training he did not develop 
his theory in the usual form. Max
well, because of his excellent analy
tical mind, was able to do that which 
Faraday did not do, i. e., to develop 
a complete mathematical theory of the 
electric oscillations set up in the ether 
as the result of a spark discharge. 
Helmholtz, the great German physi
cist, was at first skeptical but on fur
ther investigation decided to accept 
the theory. He interested his pupil 
Hienrich Hertz in this subject and as 
a result Hertz was the first one who 
succeeded in showing experimentally 
what Maxwell had shown mathemat
ically.
Among a number of other inter
esting experiments performed by 
Hertz was the reflection of electro
magnetic waves at metallic surfaces,
and their refraction by prisms made 
of pitch or paraffine. For long wave 
lengths almost any metallic surface 
is a reflector but we must have a 
very highly polished surface for the 
reflection of the short wave lengths.
Prof. Hower concluded his interest
ing talk by showing how the wireless 
waves could easily be reflected.
The next lecture, on Tuesday, 
March 23, by Dr. Grondahl, contains 
interesting experiments in connection 
with capacity and inductance.
sHV SVTNNTbHyV DTNbVP
The dance given under the auspices 
of the Seannachie Society, for the ben
efit of the Training House, proved 
to be a great success. The dancing 
began promptly at eight-forty-five and 
lasted until one, which length of time 
permitted the orchestra giving many 
generous encores. In all there were 
about one hundred couple present, 
which was a very fine showing con
sidering the fact that the gym exhi
bition in the M. M. C. S., and a fra
ternity dance occurred on the same 
evening. The proceeds of the dance 
are to be turned over to the Athletic 
Association for the benefit of the new 
training house which was opened for 
the first time last fall. Nirella fur
nished the music.
sRTbK NOsVSP
yni.r-SlIuuC M..iP
The Annual Inter-School Track 
Meet will be held this year on Satur
day, April 17th. The meet, in past 
years has always been the cause of 
great excitement and keen competi
tion betwen the three schools and 
this years event seems as if it will 
top the preceding ones for closeness. 
Last year Science School came out 
the winner, but this year it will have 
to do some rapid traveling to retain 
its laurels as the Industries School 
seems to be strong in track events. 
The meet is open to everybody and 
it is expected that a large number will 
enter.  I P i
On April 10th, comes the Indus
tries School Inter-Class Meet. Here 
again the competition will be strong. 
In order to make the meet any kind 
of a success it will be necessary for 
the fellows who have any ability at all 
to come out and help their class win.
During vacation the old board run
ning track will be disposed of and a 
cinder track will be constructed to 
take its place. The new track will be 
situated on the site of the old one 
and will be of about the same size.
On the 23rd and 24th of April the 
Relay Team will go to Philadelphia 
to compete in the Pennsylvania Re
lays. After the strong showing re
cently made in the P. A. A. Meet the 
team ought to do some place winning 
while they are away.
NVW VNGeTND beUBP
Have you made that date for the 
16th of April?
An informal dance, and good time, 
to be given in the Carnegie Union.
T NVW MROFVSSyONP
The following extracts from a paper 
entitled Applied Biology, A New 
Profession, emphasizing the oppor
tunities for men in Sanitary Engineer
ing, Public Health Work and Munici
pal Engineering was read before the 
Civil and Sanitary Engineering Sec
tion of the M. I. T. Alumni Conven
tion at Pittsburgh, February 20th, and 
the complete article can be found in 
the reports of the convention.
With increasing urbanization 
caused by the flux from the country 
districts to the cities and all the re
sults which accrue from the conse
quent overcrowding and the entension 
to a greater number of people of an 
artificial mode of living, the chances 
for morbility and mortality are great
ly increased. To offset these condi
tions and to minimize these dangers, 
there has grown up in the last quar
ter century a new profession, Sani
tary Science or Preventive Medicine, 
concerned with the prevention and 
control of diseases rather than with 
cure, and as the proverbial Ounce of 
prevention is still worth a pound of 
cure and as the increase of perplex
ing problems, which are the out
growth of these constantly extending 
artificial conditions is apparent, the 
new profession would be justified 
even if the brilliant deeds it has ac
complished, during the few years it 
has been in existence, were unknown. 
Those of you who are interested in 
this work, know of many instances in 
your own experience to corroborate 
my assertion. That this new field is 
entirely distinct from that of curative 
medicine and that it contains many 
problems which the ordinary physi
cian is not fitted either by training of 
experience to solve, is proved by the 
fact that our more progressive medi
cal schools are offering a three-year 
post-graduate course to their stu
dents, in order that they may be prop
erly qualified to cope with the prob
lems of Sanitary Science.
The following extract from the 
health bulletin of one of our most
progressive states further emphasizes 
this point: The practice often fol
lowed of naming the leading practi
tioner as health officer is by no means 
indicative of a good choice. It is 
probably more often the reverse. A 
physician becomes a competent prac
titioner only after intelligent and ar
duous study of curative measures. The 
more successful he is the more he has 
specialized in his chosen work to the 
exclusion of those particular sciences 
that have to do with preventive meas
ures. * * *
For those of you who are inter
ested chiefly in the engineering side 
of Public Health work, it is desirable 
to review the applications of Biology 
to Sanitary Science, in order to make 
clear the great number of points at 
which this subject touches the welfare 
of humanity. There is, perhaps, no 
better way of doing this than by ex
amining the curriculum of that insti
tution which was a pioneer in this 
field and noting the practical appli
cations of the various subjects therein 
contained.
First and foremost in thi9 curri
culum, comes the course in General 
Biology, which is the study of the 
physics and chemistry of living mat
ter, and if our thesis is that we are 
trying to improve human living con
ditions and better the environment of 
mankind in general, what better way 
is there of approaching a solution of 
this difficult problem than by study
ing the simpler forms and their cor
respondingly simpler reactions to 
changes in their environment? And 
what subject more fundamental could 
be imagined than that one, which 
from its very name means, the study 
of living things? * * *
An independent piece of re
search work; a thesis, is also required 
and this tends to develop the re
sourcefulness of the individual when 
he is thrown upon his own responsi
bility. To the pragmatist, who claims 
that the work of the investigator in 
pure science has no practical value, 
it is but necessary to point out there
bunirn,.v un Mtg. 6

---------------------------------------------------

4Qtye lartatt
bric Offrl. Vtai Vnv Offrl.
631 M.nn Tv.n,. SP HrgICtnv Tv.P tnv Bt,m Sir..i
OSWTeD WVRNVR & SONS bOP
PITTSBURGHS OLDEST AND LARGEST DYEING AND CLEANING WORKS
Mrrvti. BrtnlI VolItng., btCC HrCtnv 1138 
Mtrn Offrl. tnv Wurka: burP Brctni, SiP bCtrr tnv M.CCun SiP
True
ValuesBOGGS & BUHLTrue
Values
$1450CLOTHES HOP
without a doubt is offering you the best suit value 
in Pittsburgh at $14.50
$25.00 STYLED SUITS AT $14.50
snappy modelsmade of all wool fabrics 
silk linedtailored to perfection
M. M. C. S. NEWS
sHV GUyeDP
Wednesday, April 14th, is the date 
decided upon for the Guild Carni
val. This day was chosen because 
most of the girls have this afternoon 
free, and so will enable the entertain
ment to begin promptly at 3:30. The 
hours are 3:30 to 5:30 in the after
noon and 7 to 9:30 in the evening. 
The object of this big time is to 
make the money pledged for Kings
ley House earlier in the year. All 
students of the four schools are in
vitedno, urged, to attend. Side
shows and dancing will be big fea
tures in the fun.
DVMONSsRTsyON OF MHYSh
ybTe sRTyNyNGP
The annual demonstration of the work 
of Physical Training by students of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School 
was given Friday evening under the 
direction of Miss Stoner, head of the 
Department of Physical Training, and 
Miss Mason, instructor in Physical 
Training.
The program started at eight 
oclock. The first on the program 
was an exhibition of marching by the 
Sophomores and Plebes. This was 
followed by a Days Order with the 
Plebes. The third number of the pro
gram was a dance, Moment Musical, 
by Lenore Read, 17, Florence Morningstar, 16, and Lenore King, 17. The 
girls were dressed in light, fancy cos
tumes and danced excellently. Fol
lowing this was a Days Order by the 
Sophomores and Plebes. After this 
Miss Stoner awarded the following 
honors in Physical Training: Sopho
more class, Gladys Wakefield, Francis 
Willis and Helen Wassel; Plebe class, 
Lucille Wakefield, Carrie Freese, 
Helen Clark. Honorable mention 
was made of the work of the follow
ing girls: Sophomore class, Mary
McClymonds, Margaret Rapp, Mar
jorie Carmichael, Jean Barr, Rebecca 
Schmucker, Regina Jacob, Margaret 
Wirth; Plebe class, Janet Mandell, 
Isabel Weidboss, Monica Jones and 
Ida Richter.
The fifth number of the program 
was an Egyptian Dance by Helen 
Harbison 15, followed by Folk 
Dances by the Plebes and Sopho
mores. Next was a dance, Fash
ions Caprice by the Sophomores, and 
Anitras Dance by Helen Harbison, 
15.
The last thing on the program was 
a basketball game. The lineup was 
as follows:
Team 1 Team 2
Pichel........................F..................... Willis
Wassel......................F................. Richter
Nicholson................C...................... Jacob
Rapp......................S. C......... Wakefield
Menges....................G................. Wirth
Spilman....................G..... Wakefield
The final score was 7-3, in favor of 
Team 1.
The demonstration was enjoyed by 
all who were present. The work was 
especially good and it was a regretable fact that more of the students 
of the upper classes were not present.
eTSs WVVK yN sHV eysseV 
HOUSVP
The last week of housekeeping in 
the Little House ended Friday. For 
the past three weeks dinner parties 
and luncheons have been given regu
larly and the Juniors in the House
hold Economics Department have 
served as hostess, maid, laundress 
and cook.
Monday, Nelle Green was hostess 
and had as her guest for dinner Miss 
Grace Green. Tuesday, Agnes Sharpe 
was hostsss at luncheon and had for 
her guest Miss Beaty, who afterward 
lectured to the student body, and 
Dean Breed. Wednesday, Maude San
ford was hostess and had for her 
guest at dinner Miss Lyon. Miss 
Fitzgerald, the instructor in Domestic 
Science at the University of Pitts
burgh, and Mrs. Mynot, dietitician at 
the Homeopathic nurses home. 
Thursday, Mary Louise Irwin was 
hostess at an elaborate dinner party. 
The guests were Miss Hayden, Miss 
Collett and Mrs. Sharpe. The table 
was tastefully decorated with pink 
candles and candle shades. There 
was a centerpiece of pink tulips, and 
small pink baskets filled with yellow 
daffodils were given as favors to the 
guests.
Before leaving the house the girls 
put everything in perfect order. The 
household linens were packed away, 
and things stored away for use next 
year. This course in Household 
Management is one of the most at
tractive and useful ones in the school. 
The girls meet with all the situations 
of housekeeping and it is a pleasure 
for them to be able to entertain their 
friends while they are in the House. 
The work this year has been espe
cially valuable and pleasant under 
the direction of Miss Shaw, one of 
our new instructors.
WIRELESS AERIAL ERECTED
Continued from Page 1 
made an appropriation for the pur
chase of a complete high power set 
and work will be commenced at once 
on its installation in the club room 
at the base of the tower. The present 
plans call for a 10 K. W. 500 cycle 
sending station which will place the 
schools with the great length of 
aerial, in a par with the commercial 
and naval stations of the country 
and way above the set of any similar 
institution in the country.
No definite estimation can be made 
at present as to the sending and re
ceiving range that will be secured, 
there being too many local conditions 
Which effect long distance work. 
However, there should be no diffi
culty in talking with any point east 
of the Rockies, and it is hoped that 
messages may be picked up from high 
power stations of Europe.
OMMORsUNysY FOR SONS OF 
MVNNSYP VMMeOYVSP
By means of the Frank Thomson 
Scholarship Fund, two scholarships 
will be awarded at the beginning of 
the year 1915-1916. These scholar
ships, each of which amounts iu
about $600, are open by competitive 
examination to the sons of living and 
deceased employes of the Pennsyl
vania Lines East and West of Pitts
burgh.
Although the primal interftion wta 
to give the employes sons tn oppor
tunity to secure a college technical 
education, applications frum ai,v.nia 
already in college will b. grv.n iI. 
consideration iI.c m.rriP
Candidates, who must b. sons uf 
employes, who desire iu lump.i. fuf 
the scholarships are requested iu write 
to the College Entrance Examination 
Board, Post Office Sub-station NuP 
84, New York City, NP YP
BTSVBTee MRTbsybV DTyeYP
M.n Tr. Wurkrng O,i rn iI. GcmP
With the recent inclement weather, 
the baseball men are still confining 
their work to the gym tnv prospects 
of getting out on the fr.Cv this month 
are indeed very poor. Nevertheless, 
iI. m.n tr. getting into condition as 
well as possible by taking indoor ex-1 
.rta.a .v.rc vtcP Large squads are 
reporting for the workouts but the 
gcm is airCC large enough for a few 
more. Capt. Humphries is directing 
the work tnv wrCC Itv. lItrg. ,nirC 
the regular coach appears on April 
15th. Al. Wagner, who is in the 
South with the Pirates, will handle 
the Plaid nine this season. His selec
tion as coach should no doubt be a 
popular one, because Al is a fine fel
low and furthermore knows every 
angle of the national game. At pres
ent work is being rushed on the new 
field in order that it may be in shape 
for use at the beginning of the out
door practice season. It is being 
planned to close the present field in 
order that it may be sodded and put 
into condition for the coming foot
ball year. The first game for Tech 
will be with Juniata College at home 
on April 17th.
suvtc ra sIraiC. Dtc
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
TECH BARBER SHOP
HTRRY FP VTN bURVN 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
UP-TO-DATE MEN^FURNISHINGS
bRTyG tnv FORBVS SsP
PLEE BQUAL IFC TOQLAELN
DYSYH LWRHY(( M T.KHagY (K.
Muvrng, Mtlk'ng tnv Siurrng uf 
F,rnri,r. tnv MrtnuaP G.n.rtC Ht,Crng 
Btggtg. iu tnv frum D.pui
4616-18-20 H.nrc SiP, Mriiab,rgI, MtP
PYll Phone 2797 Cedar. P. & A. Phone 952 A
HP TP BVbKVR,
MUSIC HOUSE
VVVRYsHyNG KNOWN yN MUSyb
Headquarters for Band a.nd Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
AK. 601 UhiK T.HYY. M c n... , . LOKHnYH Kf MiddlY W. o. Pittsburgh, Pa.
The census taken at Cornell shows 
a representation of forty-one states, 
three dependencies and twenty-three 
foreign countries. Of the latter num
ber China and Cuba are the most 
numerously represented.

---------------------------------------------------

tye artatt5
APPLIED INDUSTRIES
TMMeyVD yNDUSsRyVSP
Si,v.ni Taa.mbCc S..a Muirun Mrlh
i,r.a uf iI. Furv MCtniP
title of Avo Club. The object of this 
organization is to further the scien
tific and social aspect of students in 
the upper and middle electric classes, 
members of which are eligible to 
membership.
A week ago last Wednesday the 
Student Assembly, through the ef
forts of Mr. Hepburn, Head Instruc
tor in the machine shop, was fortu
nate enough to view five reels of mo
tion pictures of the great Ford plant 
in Detroit. The pictures, entitled, 
The Making of An American, were 
taken under the direction of the Ford 
Sociological Department and depicted 
the arrival of Ivan Smirnoff and his 
family, Russian peasants, at Detroit. 
Ivan is soon looking for employment 
and applies at the Ford plant, where 
he is referred to the Sociological de
partment for inspection. After a thor
ough examination he is turned over 
to the machine department where he 
is soon at work earning a fair salary 
and making a good name for himself 
as a competent workman. The next 
reel showed Ivan being advanced 
from his position at the machine to 
the assembling department, the pic
tures here being interspersed with 
views of the various operations which 
go to make up the Ford auto. The 
features of the picture lay in the fact 
that the construction of these cars 
was shown from the raw material up
ward, the evolution of mechanical 
skill through the Ford shops, and the 
refinement of Ivan Smirnoff from an 
unskilled laborer into an employee 
making a good salary.
Following the pictures, Mr. Hep
burn described many of the ordinarily 
unknown details of the Ford plant 
calling particular attention to the 
maintaining and assembling runway 
which attains the enormous length of 
three hundred feet. The pictures cre
ated considerable interest beforehand, 
many students, faculty and office rep
resentatives being present.
Although they have been installed 
a week or more, it is not too late 
to thank King for his kindness in 
making the substantial and well-built 
holders for the club-room waste bas
kets. What the club-room committee 
should attend to now is a general 
clean-up of the torn sheet music and 
trade journals.
The Faculty Athletic Committee 
has at last settled a heretofore du
bious matter. In the coming Inter
class Industries Athletic Meet, the 
Faculty Committee on Athletics 
unanimously decided that all first 
year men regardless of what course 
they are taking, shall participate in 
the Inter-Class meet as first year 
men; all students who have been in 
school two years shall participate as 
second year men and those who have 
attended for more than two years 
shall participate as upper men. This 
should set aside all doubt and we are 
glad to note that this action has been 
taken and thus eliminate any possi
bility of class representation.
The Student Organization Commit
tee reports the birth of a new club 
in the Industries School under the
A wide-awake student got up at the 
last assembly meeting and suggested 
that some better arrangements be 
made for showing visitors through the 
Industries school. At present, visitors 
are generally turned over to one of 
the office boys. The system suggested 
is to have representatives from the 
upper classes act as guides through the 
various shops and is one which is 
worthy of further investigation.
The chart for the Inter-class meet 
to be held April 10th is up and we 
suggest that every student avail him
self of the opportunity to sign his name 
on it and so get in on the athletic 
event. Last year the Plebes won the 
Connelley trophy and from a general 
survey of their athletic ability, the 
class of 1917 seems to stand a rather 
good chance to uphold the reputation 
of last years Plebe class.
MRP sTYeOR GyVVS yNsVRVSsh
yNG eVbsURV TBOUs 
SVTeyNG sRyMP
Industries members of the Glee and 
Mandolin Club presented the Student 
Assembly with a splendid photo suit
ably framed of those clubs. It is now 
hanging in the club room and adds 
considerably to the yet too naked 
walls.
MyDDeV beTSSP
It seems unfortunate that the mid
dle students are not up to the standard 
of social activities set by them last 
year as Plebes. At the beginning of 
the school year a splendid banquet 
was held at the Schenley Hotel at 
which some fifty middle men enjoyed 
themselves and vouched that such fes
tive occasions would be held quite fre
quently. It is in the form of a sug
gestion that all classes become more 
acquainted with the students in the 
same year but different courses and 
the one way this can be done is by 
just such gala occasions as we should 
like to have repeated.
Seldom, if ever, does the Upper Tar
P. LUDEBUEHL M SON
SIu.a tnv Huar.rc
M.nn tnv Frtnkaiuwn Tv.P VP VP
YOU LIVE IN YOUR SHOES
most of the time 16 hours out 
of the twenty-four, at least.
WHY NOT BE COMFORTABLE! 
WEVE FITTED FEET OVER 40 YEARS
tan representative have news for this 
column. Unquestionably, that body 
must have occasional news valuable 
for dissemination.
yNDUSsRyVS yNsVR-beTSS TsHh
eVsyb MVVsP
Just about one man in a million 
can relate from personal experience 
the dangers and hazardous undertak
ing met with on a sealing trip. Mr. 
Taylor took the last Student Assem
bly on such a tour and described the 
many interesting features encountered 
on a sealing expedition of which he 
was a member several years ago. 
Thrilling incidents related in amusing 
style quickly won the student body 
over to Mr. Taylor and his unusual 
manner of lecturing together with the 
tense interest his words occasioned, 
caused many favorable remarks among 
the faculty and student body. Owing 
to the shortage of time, the lecture 
was cut short prematurely and will 
consequently be completed at the next 
Student Assembly meeting.
Saturday, April 10th, has been set 
aside as the day upon which the entire 
Industries School holds its annual In
ter-class athletic meet. This affair, 
which is eagerly looked for by both 
genuine and would-be athletes always 
proves one in which a general good 
time and bubbling enthusiasm asserts 
itself. Dean Connelley, last year, pre
sented for the first time a handsomely 
engraved trophy to be awarded each 
year to the class scoring the greatest 
number of points in the Inter-class 
athletic meet. Last year, on April 
18th, the Plebes were the successful 
victors. A large number of contest
ants were out on the field and among 
them were men who are now powers 
in track and field sports. Practically 
every student should avail himself of 
this opportunity to engage in an event 
of some kind. Suitable awards in the 
form of silver and bronze buttons 
are given the first and second place 
men in all contests. A large chart 
has been posted on the bulletin board 
near the students' entrance upon which 
all contending students can sign their 
names. The entries close the Wednes
day before the meet.
yNDUSsRyVS MeVBV MyD-YVTR 
DTNbVP
March 11th, the Plebes held their 
mid-year dance in the Carnegie Lnion. Promptly at 8:30 Xirellas or
chestra sent the many dancers off for 
the evenings entertainment. Twentysix dances numbered the program 
which was appropriately printed in 
green with the 17 numerals conspicu
ously placed on the cover. During 
the dance light refreshments in the 
form of punch and crackers were 
served to encourage the participants 
in their revels. The gathering which 
included many upper and middle men 
was one which reflected considerable 
credit upon the Plebe class and par
ticularly the committee in charge.
$5.00 Meal and 
Merchandise Ticket
Open 7 A. M. Until Midnight 
FORBES QUALITY SHOP 
Forbes & Bouquet Sts.
OtkCtnv Stvrnga & sr,ai buP
btpritC $200,000P00 
S,rpC,a $200,000P00 
bumm.rlrtC tnv Stvrnga Tllu,nia 
Stf. D.puari Buo.a fur r.ni
CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB 
now forming
FEUDLRT fUR AEE UOO ATIUAT
RtnvuCpI PL Mlby.m.nia
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 M.nn Tv.n,.
N.tr HrgICtnv Tv.P
BRTbV BROSP
et,nv.r.ra, Dc.ra bC.tn.ra
sRVNsON TVVNUV 
WyeKyNSBURG
B.CC MIun., WrCkrna 23
sHV DP eP TUeD bOP
OF bOeUMBUS, OHyO
Established 187 I 
Ufficial JYwYlYH( .K .hY BHinciRal FHa.YHni.iY( and 
Ola((Y(. MakYH( Kf Ola(( Ring( and Bin( 
Mriiab,rgI R.pr.a.nitirv. 
RVGyNTeD sUsHyee 
203 OCrv.r B,rCvrng B.CC MIun. Grtni 838
IX.N.o25,19T
^ bOMMVRbyTe MHOsOGRTMHVR 
WOODbUsS,ZyNb VsbHyNbPH TeF-sONV,
BOTH TOCS ENGRAVEP 
DCS*** 7HPCNNAVC PITTSBVKGH,
HOsVe
SbHVNeVY
Burner Shop & Pool Room
NEW TABLES AND NEW MANAGEMENT
PLEBQUQAI ITIa } TOQLAELN
Uakland fW. M THan(fYH (K.
Trunk and Baggage Delivery
229 TsWOOD SsP

---------------------------------------------------

Gb? (Tartan
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES
STsURDTY NyGHs MeTYP
a feature. The movies will be excep
tionally good comedies. Eats and 
smokes promise to be excellent. King 
Hornbostel and Queen will be bet______ ter than ever. The small admission
The Department of Drama repeatchareed wil1 to the expenses and
ed the play You Never Can Tell, by balance to the Design library fund.
Bernard Shaw, before the most enA11 schools are invlted Come out
thusiastic audience of the year. The and enJy yourselves,
characters of the play were somewhat
different than the performance before. SMOKER TO BE HELD SOON.
The play was under the personal ---------
direction of Mr. B. Iden Payne, of An early start will afford the three 
Manchester, England. The dramatis committees from the Design, Science
personae are as follows: and Industries Schools ample time to
Mr. Valentine -----Chas. H. Meredith lay plans and lines of procedure for
Dolly Clandon___Katherine S. Jones the Inter-Plebe Smoker, which is to
Phillip Clandon. .Frederic McConnell be held in Carnegie Union Hall immeA Maid...........................Inez M. Krebs diately following the Easter recess.
Mrs. Clandon............Alma S. Guthrie These men of the three committees
Gloria Clandon............Doris Williams have been working jointly for the past
Mr. Crampton............Chas. H. Duffey week and have analyzed every detail
William, the waiter.. .John W. Burke of the smoker, striving to secure the
Bohun .......................... Howard Smith best of entertainments and refreshFinch McComas .................................. ments. It is a matter of particular
........................Theodore A. Viehman noteworthiness that the men who repSCENES. resent the three divisions of Carnegie
ACT IValentines Office. Tech can meet and discuss matACT IITerrace of the Marine ters upon an equal and purely imparHotel. tial basis. At the meeting held MonACTS III and IVThe Clandons day afternoon in the Industries, Mr.
Parlor in the Marine Hotel. J. J. Downes, of that school, was
------------------------ elected chairman and the following
CLASS B JUDGMENT. men acted as representatives for the
--------- various schools. Design, G. G. GruThe results of the last Class B hch, R. C. Orr and G. A. Cook;
plan and order were received on Science, Craig, Lippencott and Gage;
Thursday. The plans, as Professor Industries, Holmes, Williams, and J.
McGoodwin stated, were not quite up JDownes.
to the finest. G. W. Meyer was pro------------------------
posed for first mention, eight received 
no mentions and one was Hors Concours for change in elevation. There 
were three first mentions in the or
ders. They were given to J. R. Kilburn, J. P. Methany and L. C. Smith.
Two were Hors Concours for use of 
color, and two received no mention.
Professor McGoodwin lectured on the 
plan last Thursday afternoon. He 
urged us to put more time on render
ing and use of perspective on eleva
tions.
DVSyGN SbHOOe MVVsyNGP
Everyone is requested to be at the 
Design School meeting at 1:15 this 
afternoon. The purpose of the meet
ing is to discuss plans for spring ball 
and its na'ture. Come out and help 
make this the most brilliant and best 
of our affairs.
beTSS T MROJVsP
The projets in Class A this charette were of a high order. It seems 
as though we may pull the judgment 
our way this time. Quite a few archaelogies and measured drawing were 
turned in at this judgment. Tomor
row is the next Class A esquisse and 
the last Class B esquisse-esquisse. 
Everyone should turn out for a good 
wind-up of the year.
LECTURE BY MRS. STOKES
Continued from Page 1 
condition in which the companys 
mules were kept. Under public own
ership, which is a phase of Socialism, 
such a deplorable condition could not 
exist. Industrial freedom would then 
be in vogue.
The one big underlying principle 
of organized Socialism, said Mrs. 
Stokes, is a democratic ownership of 
land and industry, the principal that 
the things on which all the people 
depend for existence shall be owned 
and controlled by all.
After her lecture, Mrs. Stokes of
fered to answer questions from mem
bers of the audience. Quite a few 
persons availed themselves of this 
opportunity, and some interesting 
questions were brought up and dis
cussed.
We want women as well as men 
to be Socialists, said Mrs. Stokes, 
in answer to one question. "But un
til women have a vote to give us, we 
will direct most of our efforts to con
vincing the men of the desirability 
of Socialism. This explains the ap
parent lack of effort to embrace wom
en in this movement.
sHV TeVyNP
sHV JUNyOR SMOKVRP
Tonight the annual Design Junior 
Smoker will take place in the archi
tectural drafting room of Design 
School. New entertainments will be
The Alvin Theater will have as its 
attraction during the week of March 
20, the entire new production of The 
Ham Tree, under the management of 
John Cort. The authors of The Ham 
Tree have revised and brought upto-date books, lyrics and music, and 
much that is new and original will be 
found in their new work.
A NEW PROFESSION
Continued from Page 3 
is only a very little research that 
sooner or later does not meet with a 
practical application; the pure science 
of today becoming the a-pplied science 
of tomorrow. On completion of this 
course, the student in Biology has a 
four-fold possibility before him: first, 
openings in the various fields of Pub
lic Health work; second, positions in 
the fermentation industries; third, 
teaching positions, either in Biology 
or its practical applications; fourth, 
an opportunity to build upon this ex
cellent foundation a medical educa
tion. * * *
The supply of persons properly 
trained to teach Biology, especially its 
applications to Public Health work 
and of those adequately equipped to 
occupy field positions, is far below 
the demand. One finds in many of 
these positions, incompetent men; 
men who are not fitted either by train
ing or experience to solve problems 
related to the Public Health in a 
sound, rational, scientific manner, but 
who work by some rule of thumb 
method or dispose of their problems 
in a manner similar to that of the 
Alchemists of the middle ages. It 
is true that there are many unsolved 
questions in this nearly virgin field 
and because of this and for the fur
ther reason that our cities still con
tinue to enlarge, thus increasing our 
needs for sanitation, the opportunities 
in this field, especially in our rapidly 
growing west and middle west are 
legion and because of these facts ad
vance in most of the positions is com
paratively rapid. This training enables 
a person to guide in a scientific man
ner, such important movements as 
tuberculosis control, the establish
ment of milk depots, school inspec
tion, the proper collection of vital 
statistics, proper housing, public 
health organization, in fact any ques
tion dealing with or intimately asso
ciated with matters pertaining to the 
conservation of life.
In this new field, we find Sanitary 
Biologists, Sanitary Engineers and 
Sanitary Chemists working together 
for a solution of such problems as 
providing a safe water supply and 
sewerage system, controlling epidem
ics of disease, enforcing proper care 
in the handling of food materials, in 
short, attempting the best solution of 
the particular Public Health problems 
which confront any given community. * * *
There is no subject of greater in
terest to people in general than that 
of their own health and they recog
nize that this is closely related to 
questions of Public Health, for on 
the subject of disease and death we 
all meet on common ground. Because 
of this interest, the subject is much 
discussed and it is not surprising to 
find much misinformation afloat be
cause persons often appoint them
selves authority pro-tem in social 
gatherings, and give decisions which 
have no background of fact or wis
dom. A short time ago, I heard from 
a reliable source that a man in a pub
lic health position said that typhoid
Continued on Page 7
I fKH I5 YYn.a
NORMTN
sI. NVWVSsARROWCOLLARClaett, Peabody A Co., Inc. Makers
/ie Standard of Excellence----------
Macdonalds
NVW eObTsyON 
535 Liberty Avenue 
Furm.rCc 208 SroiI SiP
Candies, Ice Cream 
Dainty Lunch, &c.
erb.ric bC.tnrng tnv 
Mr.aarng buP
301 SP brtrg SiP burP uf WrniIrup SiP
B.CC MIun. SlI.nC.c 309
Goods called for and delivered.
WP OP BRVbKON
SsUDyOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
MIun.a 3160-3161 SlI.nC.c 
Sp.lrtC prrl.a iu s.lI Si,v.nia
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
M.rf.li Wurk rn etvr.a, bIrCvr.na tnv
Hu,a.IuCv WurkP
Oriental Russ and Draperies a Specially
RUUM 401 LATT LAD TRUTT PEDG.
PHONFS/ Offire 449 Hiland I Works: 4912 Hiland
Yuur buratg. Bu,q,.i
Yu, wtni ri pr.iic b,i nui .op.narv. Nu 
,a. iu ptc $3 wI.n $1 ur C.aa wrCC tnh
aw.r iI. p,rpua.P G.i cu,r n.oi un. tiHARRIS BROS. 
OTKeTND MTRKVs
Meat, Butter, Eggs and 
Groceries, Tea and Coffee
PYll BhKnY 710 TchYnlYy 0-71 P H E Ui B M A BhKnY I85 BaHk 0/14 TUHSY( a..
Iron City Electric Co.Everything Electrical
711 Grant Street
(B.iw..n S.v.niI tnv erb.ric Tv.n,.)
Some forty-eight men of the Uni
versity of Manitoba have enlisted in 
the Canadian troops which have gone 
to fight for England. The majority 
entered the Engineers Corps.

---------------------------------------------------

Qic. S trCtnE
SCIENCE SCHOOL NOTES
SOPHS. WIN ANOTHER.
Tuesday afternoon the Science 
Sophs, added another victory to their 
list, defeating the Lower Industry 
team by the score of 46 to 25. The 
play was fast and interesting in spite 
of the large difference in the scores. 
Carnegie, Kesner and Detweiler 
starred in goal shooting, while Rowe 
and Jacobson did fine guarding. Wil
liams and Ogden did the best work 
for the Industry team.
The Science Sophs, have now de
feated the best teams in school, ex
cept those of Margaret Morrison 
School, and therefore claim the InterSchool Class Championship. Line-up: 
Science46 Industry25
Detweiler.................F............. Williams
Kesner......................F.................. Ogden
Carnegie...................C.................... Hoye
Rowe.........................G............... Mitchell
Jacobson..................G.... J. Williams
Summary: Substitutions, Curtis for 
Kesner, Mathes for Detweiler, Carson 
for Hoye.
Field goals: Detweiler 5, Kesner 8, 
Carnegie 6, Mathes 1, Curtiss 1, Rowe
1, Williams 4, Ogden 4, Hoye 1, Mit
chell 1, J. Williams 1.
Foul goals: Detweiler 2, Williams
3. Time of Halves, 20 min. Referee: 
McCullough.
C. M. E. S.
The regular meeting of the C. M.
E. S. was held at Machinery Hall 
on March 10. Mr. Chester, of the B. 
& W. Boiler Co., read a paper on 
Modern Boiler Practice. He first 
spoke about the new Standard A. S. 
M. E. Boiler Code, and told of many 
of the variations in boiler practice 
\vhich it was designed to eliminate. 
In treating boiler plants, he said that 
the large unit was desirable, but that 
it was usually broken up into a num
ber of smaller units so that one or 
more could be held in reserve. Super
heaters first became common hi the 
United States in 1900, and at present 
about one-fourth of the total boilers 
are equipped with them. Much prog
ress is being made in combined boil
ers, superheaters, and economizers. 
Stacks are going out and mechanical 
draft is taking their places. The effi
ciency of the boiler is becoming of 
more importance. More attention is 
being paid to the brickwork, and ef
forts are made to stop leaks. High
er temperatures can be obtained than 
it is possible to get fire brick to 
stand, and it has been found difficult 
to hold the arches up. By means of 
slides Mr. Chester illustrated many of 
the different types of boilers, settings, 
and stokers.
Your clothes will last longer. Shu
man method of pressing is really 
clothes insurance. It is a way 
which prolongs the life of your ward
robe, for there is no pulling, hauling 
and twisting of the fabric to draw it 
into shape. The press does it natural
ly, easily and beautifully. See Shu
man, 3911 Forbes Street.Adv.
A NEW PROFESSION
Continued from Page 6
carriers could be detected by blood 
cultures and from another authority 
came the statement that a T-bone 
steak, in the bottom of a well was re
sponsible for an outbreak of typhoid 
fever which occurred in the commun
ity in which the well was situated. 
Later I received a graphic description 
of how hordes of typhoid germs sal
lied forth from the carcass of a horse 
which was in a river bed, and calmly 
awaited unsuspecting persons drink
ing from the stream.
Unscrupulous persons, either in 
their desire for publicity or in order 
to grind an axe of their own, take 
advantage of this desire on the part 
of the public to be informed on health 
matters, by uttering half-truths or de
liberately trifling with facts, to such 
an extent that wrong ideas gain 
ground and it takes much time to 
eradicate these false impressions. By 
such unscrupulous persons, the march 
of progress is materially hindered. 
Politicians and others with no knowl
edge of public health matters and not 
appreciating the gravity of their deeds 
sometimes depose good men or so 
curtail their powers that they are un
able to discharge their duties efficient
ly or to serve the best interests of 
the community. * * *
It is over a half century since the 
Theory of Spontaneous Generation or 
Abiogenesis was finally overthrown, 
and while no one at the present time 
believes that eels can arise de novo 
from mud and slime or that mice can 
be generated from dirty flannel and 
corn, the idea is still current that de
caying material and the consequent 
evil odors; poor plumbing; the catch
ing of cold; etc., per se provide a 
suitable environment for generating 
disease-producing micro-organisms. 
Nothing could be further from the 
truth, for a study of Biology teaches 
us that between the living and non
living world, we have one of the best 
defined barriers in nature, and that 
no living material, not even the hum
blest bacterial cell comes into exist
ence without the intervention of pre
existing life of the same type.
Again quoting from one of our 
monthly state health bulletins: Re
moving health departments from poli
tics; selecting the right man, paying 
him the right salary, and permanent 
tenure of the position will do much 
to correct existing evils. There is no 
official of more importance to any 
community than a conscientious and 
capable health officer. The conserver 
of the health of our people is a bene
factor of the race and worthy of the 
highest honors in the gifth of the 
state. * * *
In closing allow me to quote Dis
raeli and express my strong sympathy 
with his ideas: The public health is
the foundation on which reposes the 
happiness of the people and the pow
er of the country. The care of the 
public health is the first duty of a 
statesman. 
Editors Note:The above article is 
through the kindness of Prof. J. E. 
Rush.
EB QBUAIQBF AQCUAUTUAIQOBruwnrng, Krng & buP
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
NDYSNNH WIIR CU(MMU
NEW SCHOOL CUSTOM
Continued from Page 1 
combined schools, that indomitable 
spirit which has made Carnegie Tech 
and Carnegie men known, appreciated 
and feared by all competitors. Now 
the period of trial is over. There re
mains only this final but necessary 
rite to express our formal acceptance 
and welcome into the bond of Car
negie Tech. For the future our inter
ests are one. In all that promotes 
the interests of Carnegie we count 
upon your loyal support.
With this honor, for it is an honor, 
comes responsibilities. What these 
responsibilities are we shall not go 
into detailbut they can all be 
summed up in the wordsBe men, 
honorable men, and in all things up
hold the honor of Tech.
You men of 1918 have been tried 
by the test, by the thorough test of 
the past six months. You have shown 
the true spirit. On behalf of the 
Sophomore class I accept and wel
come you into the fellowship of Car
negie men, and in token thereof do 
clothe you with the Tartan, the offi
cial colors of your future Alma Mater.
Mr. Orrs remarks were very apt 
and were permeated with the true 
Tech spirit.
Second in order was the Plebe ac
ceptance, which was given by Mr. 
James L. Payne, who is president of 
the Plebe Design students. Mr. 
Payne presented his remarks in a 
masterly manner. They were con
cise, vigorous, well-balanced and 
were given with emotion and dramatic 
force.
Mr. Paynes Remarks.
In being chosen to represent the 
Plebe classes of both the schools of 
Applied Science and Design, I feel 
I have had imposed upon me today a 
responsibility too great for one man 
to attempt.
On this day we become full-fledged 
citizens of Carnegie Tech, and, al
though only seven months have 
passed since we began our careers 
here as a class, truly and purely in 
the embryonic stage of college life, 
we have already learned the value and 
meaning of real citizenship in this 
grand institution and we have looked 
forward eagerly to the time when 
this privilege is bestowed upon us. 
(We are proud of this privilege.)
In September, 1914, we entered Car
negie Tech as individual men,no 
unity,nothing to bind us together 
save a general sympathy for each 
other in bearing the brunt of all that 
goes to the traditional Plebe. Today 
we stand a unified body,organized, 
ready and willing to do our part in 
carrying on the work and promoting 
the welfare and interests of old Tech. 
I speak as a Plebe and for the Plebes 
when I say we deem this a glorious 
privilege, for even now we have
DONT TAKE 
CHANCES 
WITH YOUR
Mrrnirng
Place it with 
the shop that is 
thorou ghly 
familiar with your wants and that 
has always given the Tech students 
clean-cut, attractive printing, prompt 
and efficient service at reasonable 
prices------
THE BLAIR COMPANY
Fourth Floor, Bindley BuildingSeventh Avenue and New Grant St.
bHObOeTsVS
OUR MESSENGER
FOR EATS
COME TO US
We want to furnish the baked goods 
for your Frat. May we?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the center of the Iroquois Block OAKLAND
learned to love the place and stand 
ready to a man to earnestly and dili
gently strive to put forth the best 
that is in us in doing our part.
Gladly do we accept this fellowship 
and we realize to the fullest extent 
the obligations and responsibility 
placed upon every man of the Plebe 
classes in taking all that this means 
as his own. Unfortunately, as classes, 
we are separate and distinct, but I 
voice the sentiments of every man I 
represent today in saying: First of
all, we are men of Carnegie Tech, 
not students in the School of Applied
bunirn,.v un Mtg. 8

---------------------------------------------------

8
sODTY yS sHySseV DTY !
HTVV YOU BOUGHs YOUR sHySseV? sODTY yS MOSysyVVeY sHV eTSs DTY 
1915 sHySseVS Wyee BV ON STeV
NEW SCHOOL CUSTOM
Continued from Page 7 
Design,not members of the Science 
school,but a band of Carnegie men 
with our highest aim and ambition to 
so conduct ourselves ourselves that 
may worthily uphold all the wealth of 
sentiment and tradition woven into 
this Tartan band.
Though still Plebes, we are today 
to burn the emblems of our class, 
not as some would have them, badges 
of inferiority, but emblems typifying 
the period of our preparation to be
come worthy citizens of Carne
gie Tech. We shall always cherish 
tender memories of this period and 
its culmination in this day. As repre
sentative of the Plebe classes I would 
have you all know that our one motto 
shall always be,First and last, 
Carnegie Tech.
Attention was next drawn to the 
casket which was placed in the cen
ter of the athletic field upon a high 
funeral pryre. In conformity to the 
traditional rites Mr. Orr applied the 
torch to the pyre and the great line 
of Plebes and upper classmen, 
which encircled the burning pyre, 
watched the cremation smoke and 
flames leap high into the air as a final 
witness to the equality of all classes.
The following Senior charge was 
then delivered by Mr. R. S. Wilson to 
the Plebe and Junior classes. Mr. 
Wilsons remarks were heard with 
much interest convoking many mem
ories of the past four years.
Mr. Wilsons Remarks.
In behalf of the Senior Class it is 
my privilege to welcome into our or
ganization the Plebe Class of 1918. 
We welcome you, not merely as indi
viduals, but as a class. Think of what 
this means! A permanent organiza
tion, one that will go on and on, long 
after we are gone. The faces in the 
classroom will change, students and 
faculty will leave, new ones will take 
their places. New buildings will arise 
and old ones will be altered, but the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology will 
remainthe most permanent form of 
organization possible.
You, the Class of 1918, have joined 
this great brotherhood. A brother
hood of many hundred men, soon 
many thousand. With these exercises 
today you acquire the full privileges 
of this brotherhood. You have the 
honor of being a Carnegie man, an 
honor created and maintained by those 
who have preceded you. You have 
the privilege of comradeship and 
friendship with Carnegie men. You 
have the privilege of bettering your
self socially, mentally and physically.
But with these privileges go respon
sibilities. The student body is pri
marily concerned with the welfare of
Carnegie. It must uphold the honor 
of the school of which we are all 
justly proud. Each class must do 
all in its power not only to uphold 
the standard of the organization, but 
more, to raise this standard to im
prove the entire, organization. If 
every class adds its little mite the or
ganization will grow steadily and 
solidly.
This chain symbolizes our organiza
tion. Each class is represented by a 
link. Ten links now make up the 
chain, one for every class from 1908 
to 1917. Today we add the eleventh, 
1918. Seven of these links bear 
stamped upon them the numerals of 
the class represented. The eighth 
link, 1915, supports the chain. Today 
it must be the strongest link, but 
what of tomorrow? Today 1915 is 
stamped on the link. Then the sup
port is transferred to the link of 1916. 
But then the chain is one link longer. 
More weight to support. Then 1916 
must be stronger than 1915. Also 
when the time comes 1917 must have 
become stronger than 1916. And so 
it goes, each link a little stronger than 
the last. And this is as it should be, 
we are progressive, we never stand 
still.
Upon the senior class, now 1915, 
falls most of the responsibility. They 
must be leaders, the directors, the 
originators. Students and graduates 
alike depend upon them. But remem
ber 1916, next year you will take their 
place. Your responsibilities are great
er. You will direct the course of this 
great organization. Do not be pas
sive. Take the initiative, be active, 
do not merely follow the crowd. The 
entire brotherhood trusts you, be 
faithful to their trust.
But upon every class there is-a duty 
and responsibility. Prepare to direct. 
Prepare to support this chain. This 
chain ever growing longer and 
stronger. The chain of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Probably the most unique feature 
of the ceremony was to follow. It 
wTas the -welding of the Plebe Link to 
the Carnegie Class Chain, and the 
stamping of the 1915 Link. This 
chain contains a link for each 
class and as each separate Plebe 
class passes into full recognized 
Tech citizenship a new link is ad
ded. Prof. J. S. Taylor acted as vulcan and presented an interesting ap
pearance in his disguise of long, 
bushy, black beard, leather apron and 
pink tights, which seemed quite in 
harmony with the drizzling March 
rains.
This chain was then formally pre
sented to the Juniors; Mr. H. L. Heil
man delivering the speech of accept
ance and reply for the Junior class. 
His remarks wrere corroborative of 
the ideas embodied in the preceeding
speeches and formed an epitome 
which ranked high as a fitting conclu
sion.
Seniors and Undergraduates:
In behalf of the Junior Class, I ac
cept this--charge from the Class of 
1915. This chain before us calls to 
mind the Classes that have passed 
from this School and the standards of 
worthiness and excellence which they 
have established. You, too, Class of 
1915, have set yours. You have stud
ied the needs and defects of the many 
systems of school activities, and have 
established quite a few. You come 
out better men, with a wealth of 
knowledge and experience added to 
the hard common sense which so con
spicuously distinguished you in all 
the fierce light that beat upon you 
throughout the most eventful trying, 
and perilous four years of your life. 
We dwell on this prospect with every 
satisfaction which an ardent love for 
our Alma Mater can inspire. We, the 
Class of 1915, strive to uphold the
dignity of your standing and to sur
pass you in your excellence.
It remains with us to perpetuate 
the custom that has been inaugurated 
to-day. We hope that the men behind 
the new link shall lend glory and
honor to this chain. Let us hope that
the next link to be added one year
from now be stronger than the one 
today. That the next link stamped 
shall be deeper and better and so on 
throughout the many decades of Car
negies future. It is the desire of the 
present student body to add this cere
mony to the standing traditions of 
the school which are being developed 
annually. We should through this 
medium join ourselves with the chain 
of companionship for the betterment 
of our school. Animated by these 
sentiments may we earnestly strive to 
make this in the highest and truest 
sense, a tradition of Carnegie Tech.
A large Plebe hat, constructed by 
the Design boys, was carried by Mr. 
A. Lewen. It was gaily decorated 
with red streamers and towered high 
above the crowd. This feature was 
carefully developed and added .V 
pleasing variety to the cereinonv.^-J
Amici followed and refreshments 
were served in the gymnasium to the 
faculty and students.
Mr. Heilmans Remarks.
The success of the ceremony and 
particularly the spectacular feature of 
it, is in a very large measure due to 
the work of the members of Miss 
Stannards department of the Mar
garet Morrison School, and the mem
bers in charge of the ceremonies pro
cedure are thankful to them. A spe
cial word of praise is also due Mr. 
Gage of the Science School, for it was 
through his efforts that a large num
ber of important details were so suc
cessfully cared for.
GOOD
beOsHVS
bHVTMVR
bCuiIr.ra, strCura,
Htii.ra, F,rnraI.ra
504-506 Federal Street N. S.
TNDRVW GP WyRsH
BOOKBINDING
Brnvrng uf Mtgtzrn.a tnv R.brnvrng uf 
OCv Buuka a Sp.lrtCic
109-111 Federal Street, Northside
1f7|uv.rn srtnl.a
JEf OEATTLT AAD T BRIVATL
RP VP JTbQUVS
(TCC btaiC.a Wurk)
Forbes and Craig Sts. Pittsburgh
WP SP BROWN
Wood Street and Oliver Avenue 
PITTSBURGH, PENNA. 
Cutlery, Athletic and Sporting Goods
MrCC.ra R.ait,rtni
5r4 SmriIfr.Cv Sir..i
Miller's Cafeteria
520 SmriIfr.Cv SiP, Mriiab,rg
Desks, Macey Sectional Bookcases 
Interfiling Cabinets and 
Cabinet Supplies
JP GP MTRSHTee bOP
959 erb.ric Tv.n,.
ALLES-DAVIS CO.
5th and Atwood Street
Mrli,r. Frtmrng rn TCC ria BrtnlI.a 
s.C.pIun. 41 SlI.nC.c
O. M. STAUFT
3702 FORBES STREET
PITTSBURGH
FINE STATIONERY 
Visiting Cards including plate $1.50
Engraved and 100 cards to $4.00
Stiraftlirun tnv lu,ri.u,a tii.nirun taa,r.v
