jfn mnst.be at liberty to 
jay in print whatever they 
bave in mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one. .
_CHARLES A. DANA3TKc Carwtjie STartau
Todays Editoriale 
Dr. Baker Retires 
Homecoming 
Freshmen and Activities 
Inter-church Conferences
VOL. 30.CARNEGIE 1NSHTUTE OF-TtfKIHIVOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1935
;lans Gather for Ninth 
Homecoming-Class of 1910 
Celebrates 25th Anniversary
All Colleges 
Show Increase 
In Enrollment
euislration, Luncheon, 
Theatre Performance, 
Planned Friday
jfn fmstm.fbe 
alir ym e.opytw
JfotreDame-Carnegie Fracas 
IWillKegale Home Comers 
Saturday Afternoon
SjCarDegie Alumni will hold their i annual homecoming on Friend Saturday, October 4 and a week-end of the Notre Damegle game. At the time, the of 1910 will celebrate the y-fltth anniversary of. its . 'while the regular fiveie reunions of the classes of 51920. 1925. 1990. and the first -inlon of the class of 1935 will 
/i|a be held.^An extensive progTi ifs has been arra s committees under the gen, .airmanship of R. J. Sals* ,y E17. Registration of alumni ll. begin at eleven o'clock Fiiaiprninp at the Brown house. jm&Dt of a fee of .$1.00 will onSfife web alumnus to a registration " tothe luncheon lance to be hed' 
r Jn the day. Lists of all, roDg alumni will be p'oated at 
^.dlration headquarters.The: General Alumni luncheon 11 be held In the Brown , house at ^.30 .o'clock. Each of the twenStaigbt Carnegie Clans scattered som coast to coast hare been iniiUd-io send at least. one reprefeoUllve. and a call of clans andf
-^unionffroupB will he the feature Ihe luncheon. - -  
Later In the afternoon 'at' 2:45 'dock the alumni, escorted by the [Oktr guard of the R.- O. T. C.. the hide liaod, and the various camlus honorary societies will parade' mss the campus to AdmLQiatrafon hall for the presentation, of a is Boor plateby the class of > to be added to the design on floor, otthe maln.:cqrji[ior.-c. . building, which contaJas-pteti's iih the class numerals.of-every |;oup graduated from Carnegie, he plate wii! be presir.ted-to the Smlnlelration by a' member or the jam of 1935 and will -be accepted a behalf of Carnegie by Dr. ^arlea Watkina, acting-president,
plate, the 11 proceed to the Studio, brnegle Union where the Departknl of Drama will, present two e-act plays at 3:30 oclock. Ad|i&a1on will be by tickets ohnined upon registration.[No formal schedule has been [spared for the remainderofthe emoon. Instead, the alumni will at liberty to tour tho' campus, [eel Ihe professors and instructand Inspect the changes that ; been made In the classrooi M laboratories since their c kedaya. .,[Two new events have he pnned for Friday, evening.[Wo clock the alumnae and wives alumni will have dinner in the pit? Dining room in Carnegie pmmons. Dinner will be served ikria style. .Following aiiinfir group will adiourn to the Fac'Club room adjoining the Cornua for a bridge party. Table
m> clin: the day the alumniRbold a stag dinner in the Hotel penley Ballroom at*6:30.o'clock. ^8 will be the first time such an has been held, and an interprogram has been arranged, principal speaker will he pea Ieherwood. former 'National
Ndent Emeritus and member .of Ffloard of .Trustees of Carnegie; ron5l Samuel Harden Church rj Mr, John L. Porter, chairman r ^ce-chairman. of the Board of P^tees of Carnegie: Dr. Charles [Mcina, Assistant to the PreslCarnegie? The Very Rev-ohn F. OHara. .Pres Xjr.lversity ot Notrb' B Elmer Layden of the fa....J Horsemen/' present footballP5>> al Notre Dame. >- ReservaP for the dinner must be in.by The charge will be
Njeflmte program has beP&W for Saturday; moi R^ration will continue at the house and the various rer ffroups will .hold their -classStoea..... .---[Jne Kolve Dame game will take G* m the Pitt stadium at 2:00 Orders for tickets ^eluded with homecoming resHons. The pri>?Vre.$3,42 for.' 
M2.2e for cpnier: end 41.14'iorIf-rtckets are to belBent J^Btered mail, a 25c feemustiticluded;-v.v.? homecoming-.program will 5**uli an Informal-dance and; *jght breakfast atthe Patio >of: 
inij Sc^enley. The-cost will snd reservations must be >n, Saturday. Alumniare Invited to . bring guests to affairs c -v
General ChairmanU. S. Congress 
Honors Two 
Carnegie Men
A. H. Burton, J. V. Tower 
Promoted to Bank 
Of Captains
fro members of the Department of,. Military Science and ' Tactics were promoted .by the . United StateB . Congress this summer. ier Lieutenants Albert H.
Prof. .C lee ton 
Offers Papers 
At Convention
Reveals Tests Which 
Aid In the Selection 
OfEmployees
One of this summers outstandig conventions of a scionIfic nature was that of the Ameriau Psychological Association held .dutlng-the first.weelt.of September at Ann Arbor-, Mlcti. During the annualmeetings of this society the results of : a years-research
 headof the Printing Deportt of Carnegie Institute of Techducted during the year concerning the intelligence, emotional tudes, vision, and so-called tion-reactions of applicants ror mis job. These tests have been /1th ------
_ such as the Chicago Elevated. the1 Milwaukee, and Boston Street Railways Companies. ,By means of them It has been possible to discover not only the causes of accidentsbut also the practical corrections of them. As a result, these companies have been able definitely to select men who have
>wever, Professor stressed the. point that o (CVintlnued on Page 1
Total Day Registration 
Exceeds Last YearV . 
Figures, by 65  >
GAINS ARE SHOWN 
IN DORM DWELLERS
 4
ognition of more 
service in the
years of. tioop duty, scholastic
year at the^ Office of the
was associated with the United State -Engineers Office . and Ihi Alaska Road Commission. Jie cami to Carneglo in 1932.Captain Tow*: e r graduated : from Rhode Island State College in 1924.He bas^spept-two.
School a' For Monmouth. ^ N. J. Following a gradiiate courseCaptain Tower
there he was moved to Carnegie.
In remarking about the local, unit. of the R. O. T. C. Captain. Whitaker said, "There were fortythree Carnegie men. at the Fort Belvoir camp this summer, and T am happy to report that they only comprised the largest group representation of any school, but also made the best showing both in drill and general conduct'
A few minor changes have been made in . the R. O. T. C. program this year. The seniors will have more actual control over the underclassmen than previously. The drill period has been divided into two one-hour periods which will replace the two-hour period that wa used last year. These drills will take .place Thursday morning beNew iPhoto Athletic Cards 
Disturb Vanity of Students
Buddy Overend Uncovers Forgotten Freshman 
Pictures m Abolishing Ticket Book System; 
Hannum Reveals Amusing Incidents
'By Toby Cross Got quite a shock when you received the new A. A. ticket card with your freshman picture on it instead of the old student book, 
didnt you"Regardle change ws
as of your reactions the ant instigated because  the Athletic office had 
. queer sense: but to'
tballgames  compared .with the attendance. This was due in part to the fact that grads and otheroutsiders would 
borrow the i dent's .boo
1
that these fellows wi 
ones in. a position admission, price.
pay the small 
verend. for the, last few:
a solution. .Several o*hrcolle had' ticket books, and cards Witn the. owners..picture on, them, but they had drawbacks. Finally, in the courtesy.card of an oil com pny. he*, saw what he wanted. As a.-Siult. thie. summer along; with [Ma^'Haonum. Mr.. L. H. Miller, the - staff of the ; Library Press ot the Carnegie Institute, and others
! is made When it B*printed.however, only the pi
developed , it was . discovered thait it didnt dry quickly, enough. Result, more experimentation which led to dusting the card with celluloid powder.Once the cards were printed and delivered, t.o. IJifl-A*. A-.-.office,;, the trouble had just begun, the freshman pictures have.nam.es; only  numbers.. which are  listed ^gainst' the names
Rather than  check - the\ flies before -the"cardswere printed,vMr. 
Overend
Twenty-two More  Choose 
Campus Abodcfiy Wefch. 
Hall 18 Reopened
the ,close, of the r<agiBtraijJontperlod last..Tuesday. therevWe^B 
2,027 students nTolied. T^ls; Is' an. increase-of: 65 ^ver'la6tr flgureof 1.962.
This, increase. - is distributed' throughout .the-.entlre schooli.withail of ,the colleges showing a-gnlif: Margaret MorrisonCollege Tecbrdd the grealest increase wlth a' ^ptal of 481 as compared with last yeafs; 449. The College of-Eoglneeriag is with 747 this, year and 735:jaflt, neerlng Freehi years 28B . Fine Arts records: years figures at 483.' The Carne-J gle Library School registered Y 2S.| students. - r ;
Distributed by classes, the!; ei rollpient this year it as follows  ib-S
 and'Spclali '41.
torleB. this year there are 96. 1 upperclass shows -191\ this year compared - with - Jast years - figre of -173.  The total 'figures, for.vthe mens dormitory assignment, is -287; The 1934-1936 figure, was; 266.'
WelchHell and:.thgirls'. dormitory Linden, have - been repaired being, occupiedagaln.-this
[Many -Faculty 
Changes Made
This Summerr i ___
2> New Instructors Are 
^ ^ Appointed to Fill 
] Staff Vacancies
Twenty-six. new faculty members 
vei; appoints to the staff of Carflegie Tech during the summer.
' adeiandef L iFelld' hab :beeln ap
pointed professor :of.--,metallurgy.-
Mr: Felld was educated at the Untversllty . of North:
brecht Hall-rto-Miller; Hall: Miller. Hall'. 'wa&ixshRst.ered * Jast: iye.at.-J>y>Alpha.tHtotfvChf,.iallonal prof^fllon^i
Dean':Tarhell-In commenting-' uponthe Increase, of'dormitory students said that ,the.lncreasJnitb)e. years registration, as far as -the dormitories -are concerned.- shows that there is a growth of Interest In Carnegie -on the part of students from other parts of the state and' country." , - . Although the geographical file has not yet been completelyranged and facts from it will
a considerable; her from relatively distant states and several from foreign countries-.
Carnegie Man 
F. & M. Pres.
Dr. J. A. Schaeffer Once 
Taught Here
Dr. John A. Schaeffer, former instructor at. Carnegie Tech has vecentlv been appointed president of Franklin and Marshall college.Dr. Schaeffer graduated from Franklin and Marshall, and later studied chemistry at the University of Pennsylvania where he received Ifcs doctors degree in, 1908. He was an instructor of chemistry at CarnegieTech from 1908 to 1911- While here he became interested in research work in paints. As a result of his research he was engaged, by the Picher Lead Company of Joplin, *
Prof. Gustafson 
Heads New Dept,
Cleeton, Gregg, Swanson 
Receive Promotion
vlsuu w -  cardsmadei.for everyone who had registered^ 6 freshman forthe last--fourvy,ears. Consequently; there-v are. onl file cards for people .who haTfin. t^even seen the-campus for sever-al-yfears. 'rhia  situation, howeyef?-will be, year-wjien .the -- system-is well organised.-..; .^ The cards  will solve the basket-- -  -Ia8 tjie
the door.  Football 
tickets, though, must be obtained by presenting-.the.card at the A. A office--- Some of these will be sold as in the^-past" Mr. Overend - (Continued on Page Three.)
eliminated . new. system The card hall  situation effectively .as thecards will :be punched - Jjust before
President Bakers Statement
i::.s (In announcing his retirement :-.rom active duty as president ;of Carnegie Institute of'Technology. Dr. Baker has siven she idlowing statement to the Tartan:)
. '.My request to be relieved 
from the presidency of the In
stitute of Technology is. the
aad have not yet-fully I -recovered. I did not think it : was fair to our Institute to. have  a -president who. could-not give his full strengta to his work.
.. *'My association with Pittsburgh has been exceedingly happy, l am very proud of our .^magnificent schooU. My truelees have-tfented me-wlth the great,:.est consideration - throughoutthe entire period of ray aBsocln-^lon with them:: -During ojl the .sears .of my . presidency;1 they ' ^ve been generous ip their help ii-^nd enth\\elastlc: In' the support :<ai' j)Ian&; tbal havebeen - proi.posed .'ior the ad?&ocement of ^e -'4nstituUon.-.'' :My -body of .! trustees  could.; not  have: been Mmore.considerate .nor could-.they 4liave. .BUpportedi their .president 
v^lore heartily...
,i:ilcWe have-a magnificent bcldy i ijt .students. - They1 are .hard workers, .good  iporUmen;, and rthey1 seem to regard the execu
tives of the Institute as their friends, with whom they. enjoy
"hi the entire period of my presidency there have been no unpleasant misunderstandings with this fine body of boys and girls.
ivhat i have nttenlpted to do. As the reputation of its individual members has grown the reputation of the Institute has been extended."I cannot believo that I am parting with Tech or with Pittsburgh. I hope to make my
that i can the interosteof the Iustltue. I am still very Ured. although mv health -Is improving. Possibly I
before long I hope to return
YWCA Splits 
From National 
Organization
Local Officers Felt Tbat 
Group Did Not Profit 
From Affiliation
eipetlene-in the: metallurgie al>induBtry.\ForMS"
il were.being favored, over: the Car-1
mmerclal engineering. Is a gradInstructor at General Motoi Institute.Albert LoveI Joy,  director of i the Petit .Theapreparation for Orville Henning assignments at RKO-studios.Peter . Mnller-Munk isthe new associate professor of Industrial (Continued on-Page Two.)
Council Appoints 
Cum mitte Heads
Bichard Hammond Directs 
Welfare Fund Drive
Department of Printing, is the bead
and vocational courses. - ->i.- Professor < Gustafson became head of the department of printing
mstvuctor-;;in-'t1ie;/. li&partment Printing.- Mr. Gustafson spoke, enthusiaistlfiaUfy^ ot 3th new work. He expres^ed-'tho hope that the :taff and students in-the Carnegie. Department: of Printing would en: Joy a most profitable year.'Professor Glenn. U. Cleeton-will succeed ^ Professorv. - Gustafson as head of thev-Departmeptvof-. Printing.- - Professor.--Cleetoni-carae.-to Carnegie Tech-In .1923 from the' University of . Iowa-and has been head of -the Department ot Industrial Education-since 1923.
Richard D. Hammond, 36, will head the-.Welfare Fund drive at. Carnegie this year. The appointment-was made by Student Coun cil at its first meeting of the year last Tuesday; *Mr. Hammond will have as his assistants George Lambertson. Edward Kreh. Thomas Koehler, Wilfred Slocum, and  Lee. HammerschmldtWomen in the College of Fine Arts and Margaret vsy.ld
Black and Dorothy Booth.Freshman elections 'will In all colleges Tuesday, Oct This date> was approved , by Robert P. Greiner. '36. Student 1 Council Chalrman-of -Elections.
Freshmen Wanted. 
To Fill Vacancies
Freshmen or other stu
dents who are interested in 
working on-the editorial
Room 16 Industries building, at->12r00 sny'day-this week. Those interested in the busl-. ness staff positions are asked to.report at 12:30 Thursday. Silver activities keys . are awarded for. two yearsservice' end the major positions on-the' staff give a financial
Carnegiebranch - of the Young Women's Christian Association longer affiliated with the n tlonnl Y. W. C.
The relationship ceased .several -weeks beforfe the close of-the last semeater.. Since that time eanizatlon -.plans, have been pu Into qffect: The Carnegie.organljs tlon isnow calleu the'Women CbrlBtlanABSoclatlon.
One of the contributing reasons
Anexample for the separation
year dropped from -. the; natlonaltbe independent association has
evitable.' Iii the past, years" 'she said, 'we-have found that our relationship with the national Y. W. C. A. has' been a drain, unon. our troas* ury. We. have not profited by our membership in the larger organization; We intend-to use our money forimproving our campus program instead of sending it . to an organization which.does nothing for. os.
-RobertC.oblentz, president of the Carnegie Christian Association in. the new setup an opportunity for closer cooperation..between the men and women on. the campus than, was possible In forDr. Baker Resigns After Illness-Named President Emeritus
Retiring President
NO ACTION TAKEN 
TOWARD SUCCESSOR
Dr Thomas SBaker, who re. ,jntly resinned from the presidency of-Carnegie. He woe appointed president  emeritus.
Fraternities 
Will Sponsor 
Autumn Dance
Music Will Be by Fran 
EichlerF unction Is . 
Strictly Private
ternity men. chBPge i.of - fifty cents per.oouple wlll-bemadewlth the maJor expenseB.\belnB inet...out bf. U;^surpls fr<jm the)last' Inter
atfond.. ^:At-the.i(wt;.-msetlngOf  tneTnter* fraternity Council a resolution -was passed stating--: .thatin order to keep: the affair strictly--private. the tickets must' be signed, byneach fraternityman /and the .president of his house. The danc is one of the .many affairs conductedby the lnterfraterillty Council-'for 'tbe: benefit of all the fraternities. on the Carnegie Tech campus'.
chestra to furnish the - music for the dance. The committee is .composed of Hubert Kissel of Delta Tau Delta. Alvin Gursha of Tau Delta Phi.. Delos Brannlng of
Pran -Eichler. and his orchestra are well. kn'o^n on the Carnolo Campus, having played-for sevom!^ large social - events. Including. the
years. The band has recently been enlarged and Is now playing at the New Penn. The band may also bo
New Drama Professor Gives 
Intimate Glimpse of Long
KingfishCould Have Been a Great Man But for His 
Revenge Complex, Says Albert Lovejoy, Tech 
Professor, Who Comes from Louisiana
Albert Lovejoy. new assistant 
professor of drama, has come here 
to Tech from the state of Louisi
ana. so recently upset by the as
sassination of its chief political 
figure Senator Huey . Long. Mr. 
Lovejoy knows Intimately friends 
of both the late dictator and his 
assassin. Dr. Carl A. Weiss, and has a .first hand - . : ;knowledge of the situation.o mmenting the "KingMr. Lovesays, that
.-satisfied' to sweep opppnent
wasnt happy until he
: Through' his control-over. LolslState -University, he tried to
Albert Lovejoy 
"says Mr. Lovejoy.
ofLong's "favorite projects, according to Mr. Lovejoy. anahis controlover it was typical of the stranglehold grip politics had gained over everything.. . -
-He built up a;flrst-class football team with only-;the best coaches. He went;to-a great expense ,to deveIop 'a|Sband; ' In' order that Louii'State could have large cheeri the . bench v/ith: the
His boast that, before he was through, no one who lege education - should be turned away, brought him large numbers of.followers.
Mr. Lovejoy says that Longs appeal wasmainly tothe Illiterate, poverty-stricken population, who fully, believed his. . promises of
Former]^ director - of the Petit
the producing staff - of the Department-of Drama to ceed  Prof.. E. W.' Hickman, who has been-grantod a -yeara.-leave of absnee' Mr.-.sLoveJoys  first : productionwillv.be'- vShakuntalar-' a classic drama of India by Kalidasa. 
: vMr.; Lovejoy ; ; has'.-.had able , experience, .in.. the^: .theater
Community theater. - the... Cornish theater In  Seattle, --for.. United Neighborhood houses to New.York city, and-for other theaters>on the west coastand ln upper New. York. After < a :year-:on-r the sdrama staff .of Columbiauniversity.-. he. was;-,ee-. lected: by acommltteeK.to^organlse
Voluntary Withdrawal 
From Active Duties 
Ends 13-Yr. Term
Board McmbersUnamraously 
Nominate Retiring Head 
To Trusteeship
Technology for the past thirteen years, resigned his office Just ho> fore tho ' opening of the present
ot-Dr.-Bakor, the' board of trnsteos at-.a .meeting heldSeptember17 - aocepted . vwith grcnt regret , hio voluntary retirement, and appoint' ed him.: Presidont' Emeritus. Dr. Baker had :heen-.advised by . his physicians that 1n order to recovor fi'om his serious. illness, his. withdrawal. from active dutlos wus''imperative. .
' No action has yet boen takon townrd the appointment of a successor to Dr.. Baker as president-.Attho. snrne, mooting of tho
tha.board^of trustees;.election; being.necessarily postponed, in-ao* cordance ^ with; the by-laws.: until - 
of tho.board, said: "Tho Boan; lias .acted npon^Dr. Bakers wlsli for retirement with. a. moBt.. pro - found regret; all. the members feel lag what th|s step wpuld .iqean ^.v.i a-loan to.:the -.educational. Interests ofPittsburgh, and indeed to theworld' at large. During "the: tlmo that: Dr. , Baker ; has occupled> thav prostdeney  of Gamegle^Tech -he has ^jeepened the ireeourqes^of 'Its scholarship and expanded. Its-'1n* fluence until it lp.- Ti.ow;>-recogniW
metallurgy .-In -'alFTta branches and-.. In: the -knowledge, of cftal: and :Its by-productsto the uees .or .Indus, try'Dr. Baker becam? ill .durlne a European trin-last year.-.but .recovered,'-sufficiently, to rqturpto his desk < for-; a. short time: in-February;  H.  was again stricken, ' He made vhw flrBt .-public. app^aj-r ance after that in.:May when he ro* jiewed the Carnegie .Tech. sR. 0,. . T. .C. In Ito annual preBldentlal ro* view.:. .Althoimh Dr. Baker,.has largelycovered from Xhe Illness, he em phaslzed-the fact that-he believes . the school should havo asJts active head a. ronn able to adrainleter lts - affairs with utmost vigor. .
Honorary Sponsor 
Cultural Talks
Series Designed to Broaden 
Engineers - Education
 Theta Tau, professional engineer--: Ingfraternity;.- is *: sponsoring a '. series of .talks on cultural subjectsby faculty members and department heads of the College of. FineArts: and Division of General -Studies The talks are deslgued to acquaint '
.planned especially tor those of the engineering . schoot,... members of other schools: .both students and faculty, are .welcome The-success, of a talk by -Prot. , g Ellis, head .of the Department of Sculpture, given late last semester at a - Theta Tau supper meetlng - clearly Indicated that more talks of the. same.nature-were -wanted.
Bilie, prof. Elmer . Kenyon,. Prof
Additions Madei 
To Plebe Bible
: Two thousatad-four hundred new Plbe Bibles were distributed .at  he end of this year's registration.
_______the end cover the material.Is grouped under four general head-.-: ingsj -General'.'. Section; Organlza^tlons; Athletics, and Worn
Trl'' Publications staff-havetow several - Important additionsIn.-the.) present handbook including a plebe.,dictionary a-'calendarifoi-rushlng^ season.: and. pages to recordxmehey^
loans ^I Contrasted  .with; ^ last.years ;B1 ble.- the pre6eht edition haaino^ad^ in the front or end pages, an 1m proved title page design ^ different sections. prefaced-.by .-.blank.pag^i,-,-; and an Index properly placed in vthe 
rear of the book The Student Directory also jot out by . Tri Publications ,k Admai about-the.mi^dleof,<

---------------------------------------------------

Tr EDrBElkR TDrTDTTg THicDFg ATTA Ig -i
Grid Authority 
Speaks Tues. 
At Assembly
Interest of Students 
in. Athletics, Topic 
Of Discussion .
FRESHMEN MUST 
ATTEND ASSEMBLY
Buddy Overend Scheduled 
To Speak; Assembly 
Convenes At 11:30
Major John L. Griffiths, Commie.sioner of .the' Western Intercollegiate Conference, and one of the foremost football authorities in the country, will be the guest speaker torthe first assembly at Carnegie Music Hell on Tuesday, October Major Griffiths in his addi Is America Growing Soft?, discuss the lively subject of collegiate Interests and participation In 
athletics.
- .It was. through the efforts of Sean Torbell that the Commission-, er, who is also President of the National Collegiate Association, was obtained for th assembly. In addition to Vis thr duties Majoi Griffiths'edits the Big Ten," t . publication containing a complete record of Western Conference . scores in ell major sports. He li to be entertained at a luncheon  given by the Delta Tan Delta fra4rnity; The assembly is scheduled for 11-30 and the ueuai procedure Bhall be followed. All freshmen engineers are to gather in front of Administration Sail; all other freshmen In frofit' of their respective . buildings from where they. will inarch to the Music Hall.- .The Kiltie Band will lead. the parade.
Freshman attendance is com:pulaory. -f-nd' as upperclassmen have turned out in great numbers in previous years. Student Council ia confident of. a large audience.
;'-'The Department of Physical E iicatlori will also participate In the assembly. Clarence Overeiid, Grad:  nate Manager of Athletics, will talk ; n. football arrangements. The  program also includes the introduc- 'tion f foolball captains, and, aprograin 'of Carnegie , songs  and ; ;dheers: conducted' by the cherleadCarnegie Destinies Guided 
By Dr. Baker for 13 Years
 -<----------------- *Urder His Leadership the Institution Has Attained 
International Prestige; Executive Duties Were 
Supplemented by Civic Interests
John H. and Cornelia B. Stockham Baker. His parents were both members of the. well-known and long-established families of Harof the state of Maryland.After attending public school in Baltimore Dr. Baker entered Johns Hopkins University, graduating in 1891-with, the ;A.B. degree.  He studied the following year in Germany at the University of Lelpslg and several other German universities, returning ^ to Hopklne to receive the Ph. D. degree in 1895. Prom 1895. to 1900 he taught German at his alma mater and continued until 1905 to lecture there on modern German literature after he had joined the faculty of the Jacob'Tome Institute, a preparatory school for .boys at Port Deposit, Md., in 1900. He was professor of modem languages at the Tome School until 1909 when be became Its director. .
During this period his Interest were largely with Germany, andvoluiienti
He also, edited The Sunken Bell/ the work of the German poel Hauptmann. Prom 1S96 to 1905 ;in Addition to his academic duties, fir. Baker was music critic on the staff of the-Baltimore Sun.
Dr' Baker left-the Tome School in 1919 to come to Pittsburgh^ secretary of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. In 1922 he succeeded the Iat Arthur A. Hamer schlag as president .Under Dr. Baker various departments of the institution have been organized and extended; among them the Coal Research Laboratory and the Metals Research Laboratory. Both research laborawell-equipped and
trips to Europe to secure outstandilentlsts-to participate in the estensive program.
the United States. The importance of these meetings has been generally recognized by the sieel industry which has in part subsidized
College and the College of Firn Arts, but the most extensive changes have been made in the College of Engineering. Aeronautical Engineering was offered as an option in Mechanical Engineering, iel for exnerlmental purposes, one of the first In the United States, was built in 12. Dr. Baker recognized a growing imilarity of purpose In the College of Engineering and the College of Industries and the year-Ivo has _ipleted the consolidation which was begun several years ago. This consolidation has eliminated duplication of work in the two colleges.
Dr. Baker has-always taken particular Interest in the evening students of Carnegie Tech. The enrollment in the evening courses from 1571 In 1922, the year Dr. Baker became president, to 4829 In the peak year of 1929-30.the efforts of Dr. Baker th -Carnegie Institute of Technology has Increased its bene700 Students 
Attend Social
Ghurches Sponsor Joint 
-Collegiate Conference
' Seven:. hundred-'''students from Wp^j^pburgh' colleges attended the firstjoint student 'conforerice /held-iunder ythe anspices of fifteen l'atrlct churches atthe'Schenley doLer-ballroom on , Fridaynight. Students attending came from the Pennsylvania College for 'Women, Mount Mercy College. Duqnesne irnlyorsity. the-University of Pitts'; biirchi and Carnegie.Tech.'. The affair, which was ono of themost successful Jnter^campus gath
erings ever staged as far as the good-fellowship' evidenced between the member's ot. .the various schools was concerned, was sponsored by tlie following churches:.. Sbadyalde . Presbyterian, 'Christ"' Methodist ' Episcopal, First Baptist, First Uni/ . tarlan. Church of the Ascension, Temple Rodef Shaloiu, St. Paura i : Roman Catholic Cathedral, ;Beller1 field Presbyterian, First United Presbyterian. Grace  .Reformed; -Third United Presbyterian. Third / Presbyterian, First Methodist Pro* -testant. Asbury M,' E. and Sixth Presbyterian.Dean Tarbell.of Carnegie Tech /.-v .was introduced by-Dr. Marshall C-.Muir of the Bellevue Presbyterian ; . Church' as Master of Ceremonies.: Following eet-toeether game9, theCarneprle Tech Kiltie Band played , several selections. Further music wps -heard from a University of r.:- Pittsburgh boys' quartet. Tho famous speaking choir of the : Pennsylvania College for Women, r-v . which'speaks in unison Instead of 1: singing,' gave something new in the way of group entertainment. ,:'Three drama students from Car1 Tnegle Tech presented a short playlet, Paris Green." The students T  -were; "Polly' Rowles, Milton Goldblum, and George Lloyd.. Another feature of the program ,/tfas vcy" .Hnngerford, famous " Pittsburgh cartoonist. 'Dfean Moore, of Trinity Cathev: dril spoke as a representative of the  various church heads at the  close :of the entertainment and the; Meeting broke up for informal re___ jearch on coal and itsroducts. Both laboratories ha eceived world-wide recognition foi 
their work.The Cal Research Laboratory is direct outgrowth of Dr. Baker-5 great interest in bituminous coal and the International conferences 'hicb he organized and held Carnegie Tech;  The first Of th . .inferences was held in 1926 .and attracted more than 18,00 scientists and-business men frpm' Europe and, America. A second conference was held In-1928 and the third in 1931'. In cnnection with these conferences. Dr.. Baker made a number
Plebes Get a Warm Reception by the SophomoreaMany Faculty 
Changes Made
26 New Instructors 
Fill Vacancies '
The Claal (2) Come up and Freshman' flirts cr<
NUMBER IS UNUSUAL
Arts. In 1926 he came to New York where he
has been apMry F. Murdoch 
pointed assistant professor of the Departmeut of Painting and Design, Miss Murdoch has been employed In the arts departments of m; schools. Her last position was sistant pri ?f fine the Un: ity of Georgia.
international Instituteoniy thirty years old. The 1934-35 day student body of 2209 represents. 39 states, the Dlst. of Columbia, the Canal Zon$ and seven foreign countries. Alumni of the institution may be found In nearly country or the world. The facility has been greatly strengthened, and graduates of the' school stand high professionally. A number of additions and 'improvements I have been made to the campus and | physical equipment of the tlon, Including  ~
Fifteen Plays On 
Drama Schedule
The Department of Drama has 
inounced. that It will present ten plays during the coming' season. Some flfte'en plays are undier consideration,
Albert Lovejoy, formerly of the RKO studios In Hollywood, will stage four of these. He is .at .presfinishing his season as direc-| of iLe Petit Theater dii Vieux Carre in New Orleans to join the Carnegie faculty.
Chester M. Wallace, a professor
tlon for Internatio
Carnegie Graduate 
Third in Contest
Arsene Rousseau 35 Wios 
Architectural Award
De-Rousseau 
partment of Architecture, won 
third prize of one hundred dollars 
in the Allegheny County Better 
Housing Committe  Pittsburgh 
Press Architectural Competition. 
Mr. Rousseau followed the program which demanded a house for
A.A. Photographs 
Taken Tomorrow
Photographs will be taken to
morrow in Room 335 of the Indus
tries Building, from 4 to 6 p. m., 
of all those students who have not 
yet had pictures-taken for the new 
Athletic Association* passes. Softie 
difficulty has been experienced in 
providing identification cards for 
the irregular,' and transfer  stu
dents, and for those who have 
 been out of Carnegie for. more 
than two years. Seventy-one .stu
dents were photographed last Fri
day by Prof. Cbarles W. Prine of
lstant phvslcs in MarPetergaret Morrison. Muller-MunkOther new faculty members 1 elude: Gerhard AnselMetals Research Laboratory; Eva M. Bllchfeldt Secretary, Metallurgy Department; Mrs. Stuart 'Wi ChapAsslstant Professor, psychology and education; Laura A. Hayi structor secretarial studies; ] HughesTeaching Assistant, allurgy; Arthur R. Kom
Metals Research Laboratory; Edward J. LoewLaboratory Assistant, Coal Research Laboratory; H. J. McDonald Mining Advisory Board Fellow; Willard J. OsbornMlniug Advisory Board Fellow;
OliProf. Leigh 
Died June 3Q
He ^as on the Carn 
Staff 28 Years
TUMOR OF BftAI
Cau6e of Summer Schoq 
Directors Passing
real "gentleman ot the Clai lost to Carnegie Tech u ner when Professor Hobert _hou, director of the sunm. session and professor of chemlr j,ed June 20 at his home 9i< legley avenue.
Two weeks before his death delegation of Tech students m &ented Professor Lelghou with first copy of the lya5 "ThUlt which had been dedicated to 
Professor Lelgbou a Illness t first attributed to diseased is. but when their remov > improve his condition diagnosed the trouble as tumor,(he brain. Friends wer the professorto the M but his condition became so serialthat a trip woe impossible, ao....was taken to the Eye and Ear pital in Pittsburgh where a cate operation of the brain *- *ive his life. He wa~ ~ ***
ginning as an instructor chemistry at .Canegie in Ociob3 1907. he won steady proniottoj through the ranks of head '
.med professor of chemistry. 1927 he was appointed head of Department of Industrial Sclettd When thatdepartment with the Department of Chemical Engineering two years appointed professor of Chembl^ of Materials.
In addition to his teaching du ties, Professor Lelghou waa aclln In administrative work at Teel Three years ago he was appoint director of the Summer Seas]
Fehool. He also served on man] of the Institution's executive mittees and boards.
He was a member of Phi Gamm Delta, social fraternity. Phi Kapjr
Masonic Order. He wi the Citmas Club and served the faculty council of the Carnegid Christian Association.
liam C. RodgersMining. Adviacir Board Fellow; Russel F. Schnake^ Teaching Fellow, Civil Engineer ing; William G. Van NoteTeach! ing Assistant Metallurgy; Rutlj Cora SnyderInstructor, Depart]
i in :
The Land, of Realism; ..The | American Mind; Mechanlzatloi fthd'TStahdardizatlori; and - )"Th< VQicel. oEthe People were pellv ered :m French and -were later published1.in that, language. They 
; (Continued' On Page ThreeV
Fraternity Chapel 
ToHearDr.Clausen
Special Emphasis Placed On 
Group Singing
 Dr.. Bernard C. Clausen, of the . Bellefleld .. Baptist Church, will speak;:at the .first chapel
v audience will he prged to sing, and., will have an opportun1.tr to do so In several numbers.--;;-Tbe Department of Music-will, asilst-the muoical part of the pro? ' gnm^by-presenting special piuslc, -fl.5 by: offering accompaniment for;
"T1TTE advertiae so that you, onr neighbors and cus* 
*  tomera, may better understand what the Bell System 
is doing, why we do it, what progress we arc making.
We advertise to help yoa use^ont services to best 
advantage. As more people ose the telephone effectively, 
onr service to all is improved. - -
We advertise to keep you informed of onr many 
different services. By selling more service we increase 
its value to each <aser.
: We.vary our message to interest readers of.all, lunds 
. of pnbhcationa. Dnnng 1935-36 special advertising for 
college and university publications will take you "back* 
stage** in the Bell System. We hope you will be interested.
Healthy nerves, sound wind, abuo.daat energy are important to you 
too. So note the comments famous 
athletes make on Camels. Because 
ramls axe so miild... made from 
costlier tobaccos.. .you can smoke 
diem all yoii please. Athletes have 
found that Camels dont jangle the 
nerves or get the wind. And you'll 
never tire of theirappeahngflavor.
COSTLIER TOBACCOS! ]
Camels, are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS 
Turkish, sod Domesticthan any other popular
REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., ?toiaa-S*Iin N C
simSOM

---------------------------------------------------

THE CABNEGffi TAR^N^fUESDAYi OCTOBER 1. 1935
College Courses of Today 
Have More Student-Appeal
Everything from *Advanced Football Technique9 
fo Practical Pants Making* Now Included In 
Curriculum Presented by Universities
gy j. Cutler Andrews.
Another college generation is on 
,le march. The annual trek Irom 
to campus is once more in 
1 0From Maine to Florida 
Prt on-the Pacific coast as well, z college registrars are Hard at computing enrollment statisA host ot tearful larewells 
ve been said, class unite are yilaiug, new friendships are bejjg formed and oldformen ____________renewed.% many years the same phe-r Vicisn rthanrvablA to_UU1, bas been observable to greater or less degree. Tht Meri walls of college tradition been weathering through any college terms. The rivalry Mween lown and gown was not 
tom of the present age.Fewer students . chanted the ^rms of alma mater a century [o but they were not necessarily 1 earnest than the classes of *e recent date. A larger peritaie 01 them were destined for Ihe misistry in a period when the iinerant evangelist, equally preyed to sleep in the forest or in  more hospitable haven, was a feaJHar figure. College life itself tod email appeal for the pleasureinrlne Chapel exercises were held tolly it not more frequently. Ornnized athletics as understood in ihe present day were unknown: Hunting the midnight oil had a peculiar connotation strangely lacking Id a period which has experienced Iho virtues of the incan
descent lamp.' it year the nation will celebrate the three hundredth anniverary or higher education in -America. Probably our brethren to the umLhwcrd will prick up their ears at this and insist that the Universities of Lima and Mexico Cily bad passed through the adolescent rtage when Harvard College drew 9 first breath in the wildsof islern Massachusetts.. For most will be sufficient that no founts
Dr. Baker President 
for Past 13 Years
  Continued From uCft 2 ~
ere vevy well received by the Frsnch press and public.Dr. Baker delivered . another series ot lectures abroad In 1932 onder the auspices of the Cat-1 Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia. This sries comprised a two-raonth lecture tour of German universities, sponsored by the Oberlaender Trust under a grant of better uiuteistanding. be20th Century and were delivered In German to receptive'audiences in Hamburg, Berlin, Breslau, Dan-2lg, etc.In ibe summer of 1933; following Hillers rise to power In'Germany, Dr. Baker made a special'trip toEurope where he secured the services of three outstanding Gereclentlsts for the faculty of
Uea Dr. Baker has taken nent pan in civic life in Pittsburgh. He has been a director of the Chamber of Commerce of Pittsburgh, of the Art Society of Plttscbalrman of the Regional Labor
He baa spoken frequently t public gatherings aud.on.the radio, and Is a contributor of articles on education and world . Hairs. to magazines and newspapers. He is a member of the University Club, (he Duquesne Club, .'and th Pittsburgh Athletic Association.Several honorary degrees have' been conferred on Dr. Baker by Americas universities. He  received the VlOc degree from'the
University, Pittsburgh, in, 1928.
Bela Tlieta PI social' fraternity,,the Modern Language-Association, the National Economic League,  the British Fuel Research Clubhand Jjie Foreign Policy Association. He war, for three years chairman ! f the Pittsburgh section.
of academic learning were known to be spouting in what Is now the United States .when John Harvard acquitted his conscience of his personal library and used it to endow tho college which bears his name.
In the years, since 1636, many
i confronted with the choice of making his way to Lexington, Kentucky, where Transylvania University kept the lamp of learning burning in the blue grass region or crossing the mountains to seek seaboard college center, in strong attachmenti the part of Pittslaterfor Princeton 
burgh students was* discovered. Professional schools were slow in maklng'their appearance. Separate faculties of law, medicine, and theology were organized after the nineteenth began, not before. Not until the century was. half gone was it possible for' a student to register for a four-year englneercreen .taste. One middle western college offers.a semester course in "practical,pants making and another with on eye to combining the
ceive dae credit for a course in "Advanced ' Football Technique.*' Such a degree of specialization will
be common for all. Another college year is opening around and before thg It will be greeted by most with the feeling that
Alumni Agents Sell 
Homecoming Ducat
following persons in th rious alumni class;Akron, OhioT. B. Gothic; Buffalo, N. Y.Joseph
R. A. Gares ; Cleveland,
Montstream; New Jersey
W. B. Smith; Youngstown,
Photo Athletic Cards 
Cause Amusement
----- Con tinned From Pa*e 1.
saya, but that doesn't bother me much as the percentage is rather small."According to "Max Hannum, the new cards are trouble enough, but there is as amusing side. He hasn't seen >>a girl yet, or many boys for that matter, who would
Max' says that the choice story of registration-concerns, two girls .whose name's were right together on the mataer file, and whose pictures were quite similar In appearance.. In one way or another the pictures were mixed and whenthe cards"' were distributed both the girls had the others, picture on her card.' As far as "Max knows, neither of (he girls have realized the difference.
TRI-PUB POSITIONS OPEN
Many' positions are. now available on 'the Trl-Publlcatlons Staff, which publishes-the Student Handbook, Directory, and Song Book. All freshman and sophomore and women interested in trying out for the staff report-to the Christian Association officc en Thursday; October 3, at 11:30 or 12:30.
Alumni Directory
~.ON  President, H. B. KUppol, awiwa. Hard Rubber Company. 608 
&m22 ftVenU0 : etor* Ti flATIANTA.ProBldon?6Joh^FNailon, V.X-.Tull Ruboer ft Supply Com^ Marietta street : secretary. Alex70rSa 6tPcets 8ecretary> Herbert CUiT0N__pWt,^BaMarV s
Boiler Beerlng.. Company Mrs. Norman Buclrsallr (RosoSSlio^oSk 3100 Et Main - etrt, 
CHICAGOSocnet&ry. L. -C. Lnvtenbers* 18 Chic Mont80nwr* Ward. 4 Company,' 
 ClK^mNATI^nudeiit, R. . Gaines, jL%ar}oy avenue. Hartwsll secretary,
j ** R<^>n' ?- AI v9**S:
TI?7ET^TPwtdent, W'.-Ray-WHI^.sH.saa NewiePhMalalid>SbUtbi-:4m nV? V, M**rrv.-;Tkodoi W: 
,teu,,SlD O o ,2* strwt, CoMma^.'.'Johnitovn !MfJ-T MOiur (Mary
an :'Jfcna;;lfuiVUte,.-Saln ^ o  ChMUrtoni -WrVa: : ;v Bario, W**t'.VIrnla ^*
PHILADELPHIAWon(Ethel A&d<
nt, Robert B. Wood. - 401 owland Park. Cheltenham, MILWAUKEEPwrident, .a. u.- rourn..eara Cutler Hammer Company. Twelfth id St. Paul avenue: - secretary. PBarwood. care Cutler Hammer Company, mtfth and SL Paul avenue. SCHENECTADYPresident, J. M.
220 Students On Secondr Semester Honor Roll; 
Slight Gain Over Number for First Semester
Pouf Juniors and One 
Sen ior Have cArAve rage
Two hundred and twenty 
dents were cited for honors o: 
basis of their grades for second 
semester of the year 1934-35 from 
a total day school registration 
1962. The requirements for honor 
rating are a scholastic factor' of 
3.15 (B plus) and a schedule of 
least 45 units of work.
This semester's number is an i 
crease of six students over' tl 
number for the first semester of 
last year, but a decrease c 
dents compared to the number for 
the second semester of the preThe senior class with 64 listed 
had the largest class representa
tion. The others are as follows: 
Junior class, 67; sophomore, 59; 
and freshman, 40.
Five students received A grades 
in all subjects to'earn a factor of 
4.00, four being juniors, and 
a senior. Th juniors, Benjamin 
Lustman, Robert. McMaster, Paul 
Stein, and . Peter Vulunabic .were 
all from the Coliege of Engineering. The only senior to earn a straight A average ' Lsh Morris Fisher .of the'. College .'of Engineer.
Greek Notes
I Letlar John (I)-.
i Dertiold (2)_____
!:?!
r Zlonts (I)----------
begins Saturday with a wiener roast. A dance has been tentatively planned for the latter part ot the month; - The officers for the year are: o.on. ^President, R. Honry Monzcone; s'.M vice! president, J. T. Gemmi; sec |.|j Vetary, V. D. GigUotti. . *
 O)..
Beatrice Slelnert (4)___-_______Gccrjre WaahinRtaa Lawberteon (3). Thelma Liela Scbn (1)_________
thjrothy Mh9rCD(t)T:;:::;:::z:Rowland Phillip Stevens (1)______Eleanor Lsulae Zygler (3)-____William James Closa (8)-_________Llndco TIsyesh Osgood _^____;
Albert Schwarts (3)---------Charles Herman Wanner!________
Leonard Braonateln ........_____William Wani Martin (1)________Emanuel Michael Glaroa (2)______-
at the chapter, house Saturday Evening. This function is beiug | 4eld for Ihe alumni who will be .bBck for homecoming.
DELTA TAU DELTA
>\ Carl Leach and. his orchoslra l^ave been secured to play for tho annual homecoming, dance Saturday night. Sunday a special diu ' for the alumni is planned.
 (2)---------
Donatd Glenn Vcryl
GUbci
DELTA UPSILON
4.00 Margaret lentia
riam Tenar MaUkoIT (4)______
PRESUKEN
nLmn""(i)-"~
' (I)-.--
Alfred Adolph Nlckei (8)---Charles LeMoyne Diets (9)_______
(i) :
Leonard H. Uvenson (5)---------Edwin George Rigs (2)------------Ruasell EarlBeyer -----------------Helen Marie Bruco (5)---------William James Sharbaush (6)____
Gertrude Kathryn Breakstone (3)Jayne Elizabeth . Henderson (3)___Mery Patricia Kelly _____
Dorothy Bertha Marcello (1)_____A^uust William Jtnag:t^<S>-------
, (1)-------rinetow ( '. (i)--.:
i *E 11 iSbth" I 00---- . alter Klrkpa ....... ....Raymond Augusts Smith
_____ayea (1)________Gertrude Tw Iff fl)____________---------- - 1 (X)-----------
- (1)-------
rnutenbr (1)"I""-hn Dnnrcoky (1)------Ivle Magnuooa (1)___' -Vth Thomas' (1)__,Irkpatriek (I)-----
1:15
V. ------iJilCe' D. Us are also, holding forth ! a -homecoming. dance Saturi ALPHA TAU OMEGA'The boys re expecting to'have tivfel party for their nlumB Satur...jn u -V, ------. - fioni the Betas, the boys--------;lug off with a rush. They are entertaining their ex-members tonight and then giving them a dance 
Saturday.
end* entertainment for old  hers. Included in the program Is a 'homecoming dance Saturday night".atthe chapter hduse.
SIGMA PHI EPSiLON,. Russ Gunla Is acting'president intll 'a new president is elected iext'month. Max Domini is secHanna (6)-------coming dance. The officers for the year are: president, W. R> Hor-jr; treasurer, A1 Wefse.
BETA SIGMA RHO
; Shaffer Knlgbta___
David' Boyd'
G. Cleeton Addresses 
Psychological Group
,8.28 able:
Robert '.«*McMae5a,(3)-l___
Albert Vuknmnlc ___
Robert Cooper Krapf (2)i____iLoula Ellen WlnRold (6)----------Louise Elisabeth -Melxner (6)__- - ----
Emily (. - . ..teas;
ElbS%wttHowaS 2'S::~~.ElSttt S ..Ettel Sybiy 1
hynsy
* ~~STZZ^Z
fnT'l^^ler 1.5
1 8..4.'sasafW5=r_i a-___tte Katherine Rosenoon (3)___Poter Hines WyekoH (4)________Priscilla Louise Long (1)._____Robert Doane Gilson (2):--------Robert William Halil (1)._____
.Jlaahcr MceniT(2)IZIIAlbert Klein (3).i------- " " ten Meleer (3)---
able; to ^disceverali-of the choracteflsMce.^'of<,4higfi^ accident riurigi throiighV psychological means-^in--
*iuii witu utner.people,.cenaencies to get engr quickly, susceptibility to fear, and other emotional deflMore and.more attention is being given to the selection of men holding "high accident positions bv
uou >f.r;'-Saturday . night to open, the activities.
M
TUDEliTA PHIs warning* is planned for
public speaking and-to develop in the students '. a faculty for clear,
tffcJUr Donaldson
Regulations Disgusting to Plebes 
But Takes Away Their Sophistication
Upperclassmen Get Kick Out 
Of Hazing Eycu Though 
Its Not Reseated
The charm of the freshman hazing is in its unorlgtnallty. The same thlngo happen the same way each year; girls faces are daubed with paint, nud boys, are required to propose to the attractive upper' classwomen, but this Is the way 
in which traditions .are born. Haziug is a rite into which little originality should enter. To Introdifference to us! B'reshman haz> ing is for the entertainment ot the rest of the college, and be allowed t  of goiug thro This is how we learn ourselves, because, after uii, we are laughing at ourselves as we were as plebes every bit as tucli as we are laughing at the present freshmen.
They tell us that th. freshmen do not resent the?.hazing and tlint
classmen get a kick out of It.
Wd.hear that th plebe girls bored'and disgusted by the unoriginal hazl ~  -thrilling i :lassmenwe get a thrill out of tho haziug. On Thursday, September 26, the
the Qreuo liefor of Margaret Morrison. We falle'' any evidence ot boredom iu
they ctro hero for our amusement. - 
TheyU get over tho disgust as. 
they lose their sophistication and 
uext year they'll get the same kick 
out of hazing ns we do. One plebo 
is quoted as referring to our hazlug ritos as high school stuff" and -asking why he-is not treated as a college aman. But wo must consider that he has been here a -very short time. Give him another - week or two and he ll realize that do treat him ns a college man
for him that the originnted-*-to rid him - of his sophistication We had a sophist!*
riglnal, they
For many decades Ihe out
standing menls of K & E 
Slide Rules have beenrucotjnized and appreciated 
by engineers throughout 
Ihe world.
iSpb SLIDE&RULES
NEW YORK HOBOKEN.
KEUFFEL 8c ESSER CO.America* foreniott mariu/acftirrr . o/ Drau-lns Malcriab. Suivplno JIrulrumenUanJ MMiurlngTafw*
J FRANCISCOL.OUI9 MONTREAL
STAUFTS Student Supplies 
FORBES STREET, BETWEEN OAKLAND AND BOUQUET
We handle all makes of Pens and Pencils, including ShaefFer and Parker
A REVOLUTION IN WRITING AND
SHEAFFERS
Start the school year with 
Sheoffers which are supreme 
In quality and performance 
. and cost no more but last 
longer. AllShoaffar'sflll.empty, 
dean with one stroke and 
take In over 400% more Skrip 
per stroke than multlple-stroke 
pens. Visibility Is kept perma
nent by a patented vacuum 
disc. The two-tono' FeathertouchpDlntthatonl/ShealTer's 
have makes two-way writing 
perfect. All these wonderful
features combined with the 
Lifetime" Guarantee make,
DEAieRSi WRITE IMMEDlAltLY run 
INFORMATION ON THE WON
DERFUL BRY-PROOF DESK SET.
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN ,CO.
Charles. .Flelebi _C HC taycr ^mpany ~Fe avenue; secretary,
TULSA  Prasldediv  H. R. Aoenvald, 
VALLEYCLAN (Younjtstown, Ohio) Preildent TL W. Kaihei; Paikway -Tovar apartment, 291 r-arlt avenue ; ; Secretary.
WMffiKGMN.' AR I de tf 11 -
LARGE8T/SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND. 
STANDAROrSIZEO -v ;
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 to S7S.00
Liberal Terme . ..Free Trial
BENT A TYPEWRITER : First Three Uonths Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE; MeCle? Building 
T*l#phoM ATIyr S320 Establish^ ever twenty year

---------------------------------------------------

3Hxc (fravnejie 3Tartan
PHONE MAYFLOWER
FoMtahcd weekly dwlne the coll uates of Cam Jare lo Ututo o Te FEllabvrgh Post 'Office m cond-clai
NAnOUATL ^VERTJ^G^SHlVICErS 420 Hadleon Avonoc, Mew York Clty... c:l5coies AngeleAMlgrnmrnt Editor_________________Brans W.ADVERTISING MANAGER; Robert P. Grelocr. PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: James M. LatLa. EXCHANGES: Reeomury B..Pierre. -CIRCULATION MANAGER: A. 1- Gumbo. TYPISTS r Mary Lou Schlny.STAFF.ARTISTS: C. Sue Fuller. Robert Roblm JUNIOR EDITORS: Richard Byroe, Toby Crow,
Freshmen and Activities
THfrCABNEGIE.TARTArC TUESDAY, OCTOBER, i. 1935
Dr. Baker Retires
(From the New York Times)W
ITH the retirement to private life of its presi
dent, Dr. Thomas S. Baker, the Carnegie insti
tute of Technology in Pittsburgh loses the services 
of an educator of large views and rare constructive 
ability. Before he assumed the duties which he now 
lays down alter thirteen years the Institute was 
 , recognized as a good technical school which met the 
. more practical, vocational needs of the Pittsburgh 
coal and iron district. He conceived it es a higher 
Institution of learning, and elevated 11 lo that rank 
by carrying out a policy which called tor research 
and which added to the curriculum courses pursued 
only in the foremost colleges of engineering.
The new Carnegie Institute of Technology which 
thus evolved maintained the close relation of the 
 old to Pittsburgh. For it was primarily on such de
partments :ns metallurgy and the chemistry and 
technology of coal on which he left his mark, and 
this -not'- only hy his active encouragement of research hut by his bringing from Europe specialists 
of: international reputation. As part of a program 
intended .to J/nt the institute more closely to the In*
._ dustrJal life of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania he or
ganized the International Conferences on Coal. They 
attracted to this country the foremost organic 
chemists In the world and served not only to focus 
.attention on the Institute's broader .educational program, but to teach Pennsylvania coal,companies the 
valuable lesson that they are not merely miners and 
purveyors of coal but an essential part of the chemicat indUBtry. It la all the more remarkable', that 
tieBe achievements in education and civics'znust be 
.[ credited to qn administrator who Is not'a trained en. gjheer but a1 scholar who began his academic career 
:; as a   professor of languagesproof, perhaps, that 
;- wide"culture, coupled with .a'keen sense .of educa 
Hional.values and of responsibility to the community,
; "is''worth.more in the head of a technical institution 
\thap ,eminence in a restricted field of engineering.
HomecomingI
FTHERE is a thread of continuity which! .binds 
Carnegie's past/witii the present-lt is. the yearly 
rslurnof alumni; lo our campus.. This year the .call 
. is.earlier than tisual. Onthta week-end we who-re
 iiiot.yet' fortunteenugh-. t bealumni -witl^tak.e-a:
..vtack sat/o^. : .>-v-/v
Nine gears' ago Mr, Gllmore.Tilbrook at that time 
. -flecretary v.of the Alumni' Association, plannedthefirst homecoming celebration. The problems : which 
.'..vtaiiced him Were legion. Tech was ait'infant. In the 
coUeglate 'wrld. Traditions wer.e few and the ap
peals. based upon love : and loyalty for/dear old 
. ..: Alma Materwhich hadbrught alumni fiocking 
: , hack tor reunions.at other .colleges.failed'to aroua^
 more tbaa .everi mild Interest in the Carnegie alumni 
. ; ,bbdy.: ' 7 ./
. Our first homecoming was held jn the spring. dur. ing Campus Week.' More and more alumni began; t<*
'take an interest but so-did the undergraduate body. Dear Plebe:
: In .fact the lntereBtof the students1 was so keen that --. 'Listen, fella, I know there are a lotta words
Campus Week was finally made a.student affair and your way these days, and just about now;)
 .the alumni arranged their Homecoming earlier jn a pennon ; jrp_u. can-read
. 'the year..'
.  ' Thifl ls the-ninth annual reunion. And it should'
>;iv be .a memorable; event tor president Borshneck and 
.= hisclassmates of 1910. A-quarter of a century has 
: .passed since -they departed from "dear old Tech.
Last year the class of 1909 returned to Carnegie 75 
> per'-cent strong-for-their twenty-fifth reuniot.Tt 
.. .-the graduates of 1910 can surpass that rcord they
 will have double cuse to rejoice.  ". ' " : *
 -- - New ideas asa ocla ted with Homecoming-are com
ing Into the Alumni office thick and fait. Last
-. - year's suggestion that each of tie twenty-two -alumni 
i ciana send representatives to homecoming inet withZ .ready response. We will welcome .these delegates 
;aa they take part in the plate presentation cere
mony and aB they Join the crowd-at the Brown House
M
OST noticeable in the past few years has been 
the lack of interest in school activities on the 
pan of freshman and sophomores... By the time a 
student has. reached the third and fourth years of 
his college life he realizes'that there is a lot'more 
to campus life than classrooms, laboratories, textbooks, <tnd instructors; He begins, to suspect that 
the fellow who'said, half of a college education is 
gained outside of the classroom, wasn't far iromtbe 
truth. Too late he wishes that he had become Interested -in some of the activities that were open to 
him as a freshman..
Freshmen cau get in-on the ground floor of activi
ties. But now is the time. Into the picture .comes 
the old slogan,, be who hesitates is lost." Not actu
ally lost perhaps but certainly the latecomer is at 
a great disadvantage.
Now is the time for members of the freshman 
class to become interested In some of the score of 
campus activities. Some activities pay cash divi
dends. In others the reward for service Is experi
ence, friendships, pleasure, and a silver or gold ac
tivities key, not valuable in itself but priceless in 
its capacity to recall campus experiences.
 Any freshman who leads the existence of a book
worm, who leaves the campus as soon as the last 
class is ended, who ^akes no interest in the extra
curricular program is a' parasite. He takes all he 
can get.- He giv.es nothing in return.
Inler-cliurcfi ConferencesT
HE fact that seven hundred students from five of 
Pittsburgh's institutions for higher learning 
thought it worth their while to go to the Schenley 
Hotel Friday night to a conference sponsored by. 
.fifteen ot the district churches seems to indicate, 
that such lnter-campus affairs are a much needed 
innovation. And the fact that those same seven 
hundred students had such a profitable and enjoyable, 
evening is a compliment to the. committee in charge 
and an indication that the next affair ot a similar 
nature will draw twice as many.
It has long been lamented by students of Pitts
burgh colleges that there is no campus life.. The 
majority of students who make such statements 
dont attend the many functions ot college ltte that 
are being .presented at all times by churches, Chris
tian Associations, the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., 
and various school organizations and departments.
Probably more than one-half of. the students at
tending Pittsburgh colleges are from this district. 
and consequently have home interests which in 
many instances keep them away from the campus 
after thedays classes are finished. II was inter
esting to note, however, th number of persons at 
the -conference who lived either in Pittsburgh or the 
surrounding districts. Many of them for thefirst 
time were beginning to believe that campus life did,' 
after all, exist in Pittsburgh-. -It was good* too; to 
see students who were miles :from home, at a big 
school In a strange city, laughing'and mixing with 
new-found acquaintances. The friends made, and 
experiences met, at a. conference such as that take 
the bigness out of a school and bring instead, a new 
loyalty. .
''The.beads of the various ctiurches who sponsored 
the conference deserve the highest commendation 
for their good work.
ITAL having rejected the peace , 1 (iliio proposed by tlie. League of I 
Notions committee of five, and Ethl11 
opla hating accepted It. the commit* I 
tee reportefl to thfe league council that 
Its efforts to solve 
the problem were futile. The coun
cil thereupon held a public meeting 
and adopted unani
mously the recoin* 
mendotlon of its _ resldetrt, Enrique 
Ruiz Guloazu of Ara gentinai that.lt pro-Anthony Eden ceed Qnder arUcie
15 of the covenant, drafilDg a re
port and recommendations for. settlement of the Italo-Ethloplan embroglo. v,,
As they did once before,-the Italian delegates walked out of the 
meeting, and a spokesman explained 
that this was because they !would 
not'sit at the same table with .Ethi
opia/ WUh other. promlnenfVpaB' cists, th Italian representatives -'repaired to .the lobby bar, ordered drinks and ratber ostentatiously 
consumed them and marched out.
In a secret ' session the council drafted Us report and framed its recommendations; but. U also asked 
the committee of five to reconsti
tute Itself so it would be ready to take advantage of any opportunity
President noosevcit proclaimed that 
hereafter manufacturers. importers and exporters of sis categories or 
war implements mast oliinln itlicenses for esjmm unrt Imports. The 
articles named onnindsp nni.v wenpons and othei articles used in actual combat, such as guns, wur ves
sels, military aircraft and poison
Secretary noper told reporters ibai the munliions control bonrd Is studying the question of whether 
certain raw materials should also be classed with munitions.
A MERICAN Legionnaires In *A ventlon in St. Louis adoi
HANG0JR
Connecticuts dan hae something new to offer. At 
; the same time the campus is'welcoming, returning 
. alumni, Connecticut Alumni will gather for their 
own reunion. If thiB scheme is successful other 
clans should follow the lead.
-. . It would be a splendid thing if on Friday plebes 
>ou1d forget that they are compelled to weardinks or armbands, and would wear them volun* 
tarily in the hope that the sighfc 'oi regulations"
NylH make some "old-grad" happier/; vVEvery, undergraduate should'consider himself a 
. reception committee. Revert to the days Of fresh
man rules and greet.strangers .with.a. cheery hello. 
Make this ninth: reunion a genuinely welcome Homecoming. -
REAL GAMBOLING O'ER
 utvw oourage. -ana 'yoa aa^s eummer plne-needle skiing, th'last ..word, in faahlocable athletic clrcles.: 
-.,v1;^.The.: hetter Uiey are. the harder vjlhey fall,, applies withra.vengeanc^ 
 toyPlae-needle akHnff,' for. coming: iown on ih* n <11* a with Rrt-at ->TOrc^vtrm: above, the skis Hvafl-: r. i^blf itlck.to the needles momentarr. jlalj; -juat long enough' to throw the Jomper ,forward until be resembles wi?nalepluiiit;r<3ller-8katfng  down' e Itjek. wire{cfiii!&^edlATis1clifig offers evqn 
sew^v^eear^fv-tkM. oea-: now: ^betweenneodlesvflyingvint 
- jut at the omU mty
 j' " Love:Letters
' Septemberrl4, 1936 .Dear Senior:
. Hi,son, I'm coming to your Joint, in September. All the'folks have been-telling me how tough Its going to be. Say, when I. cut loocfe on that coilege, they'll forget about Einstein and Edison..
' By the way. tli HarpBter that hia salvation is' coming.' And if you know'of.any. women that want 
o3real. break, Juat tell them Im coming.
 Lovingly,
PLEBE. 
September 17, 1935 
lotta words com-.
hurry and" then go over alter your fiist squelching. Clip. it out and tbrow it away later. >
- What everybody is trying to get into your-, bloated skull Is U\at' you have just lour years grace.'before Blg Bualnese really getsJtB claws in you.; pf courso, they.'dress It up a bit, but It amounts to th same thing.',-
' Now, wait a. minute, I know you're seventeen and old enoughto take care of yoiirself. Take the chip oG yoiir shoulder and listen. - . -
Anyone, can--be .Joe'College. .Some of. the free samples wo hare around here are.-classic. All you have to do la spout a snappy Un and follow the. style cartoons of Esquire'. Why, man, youve been ' Imitating all your lifo; cut it now.  College has more' hi it than nubby pipes and striped shirts; Get your' pins under, you and be - original-THINK!
* You were pretty hot stuff in high school and. you knew It. Get that out of your head, cocky. You've got four years left in which to get wise to yourself, .jtfake the beat .of thom.
" Be bone-Bt 'with yourself; live according to the abilities of.your own mind and'body; Increase their efficiency and .health, byusing some common sense. Biiild, build! Dont pile up.an assortment of sham fronts. Start from scratch.'.Ypu^cant .step, into the President's sboesi'tomorrow. Reai2e ,your, ; piace "in this world; then improve it; . ..
 .. . ors, -
:  'SENIOR.
 '  . September 21,1986My dear Senior:  '
I. received, your worda of,.wisdom. Tsk, tsk, how vit a Au Have you told the boys
 Tolerantly,
. PIP. -S.Who wants the Presidents shoes?
ateat of a. 54-foot leap'
Some of the moat outstanding of snow Jumpers have been unable to make , a single, successful-leap in pine-needle tournaments and7 have given^up the sport In-disgust 
The .DartmouthHanover, Nc H,
AT LAST, TH E; AliTft UlStiG : BOOKSTORE
,, The,.University bf-i Indiana Book-i I ^w^iaafirsealTied-natlOiial'recoaiil-j tlonaBonoof *the:fivo. moBtbeau^ i MW.'.coitege. bookstores in America?, iAny.,., profits accruing fromVit--' are; i
npe.d-'toinaintain.^the'i'Untoirp'rthQ^I.btiUdin^.la-which thebGokatore ls^
pay hospital-bills - tor; needy-sjsidents. and to contribute ^toward^tudent' eutarprlae* -'7-;
PROFESSORS OP DISTINCTJON
Twenty-sevfen^members of tbo Unlye.relty :otKentucky-fculty-are listed; is. the ; 1991-35 editionof i >Whoe Who  
i:/One ot .those:- so dUtingulshed, Dr. Wllliam Dimock, became pro-'
Athe Pathology Dejiartment at the.. Agricultural Experiment1 Station in 1919, aud ls the joint authoi. of. 60 publications on animal dlseafies. .
CANNED BLOOD"
-.. Daan David John Daylg of the 
University of Illinois Medical 
school has . been experimenting to 
prpve. ^tliat blood -preserved fromdead -b.od-ies : coud?; aidthe -Kvliig 
His aim is to corroborate reported-; results obtainedcat'c Sklitassowsky;. Institute;.: Moscow, by" Drs"'S S.. Judln.s.chief.surgeon.'-and-W M ! Schmow, his colleague in 'physiol* I ogy, with what - has . come te 
knovcn.as^.'canned+:Wood;" - 
Mr. -Davla.- who,recently returned I from?avforelgn ;tour,' said hxtnilreds[ of:)tuinan?]lYShave, been saved in i-Ruaaia, through' thle medium ' ' He i ^itd he planned to experlm'ent'Wlth1 dogs,- bleeding.- - obe to the^olht i where & trafstusloU'rwoUld'' tfe: nec;1 cssary to sustain life'-then arform: Ing. tbls trassruslon with the pree^edblood of a healthy dog
for mediation that offered inthe near-future.- 
A feature of the councils, session 
Loe an address by Capt. Anthony Eden, British minister for league 
aitalrs. Conversations in Rome be
tween British Ambassador SirEric Drommond' Qttd Premier Mussolini 
hod led some to think Great; Brltatn was weakenlngi but Eden snnpunced hig government was. "sieadfastly^determlned to abide, by its policy/Vas previously declared,. He said fo part:
In addressing my colleague? at The council on September .4 I espressed the view that It was our 
duty to use the machinery of the 
league that lay to onr hands.
Such .is still my view. I there
fore support without qualification the proposal ot the president of the 
council, since we are now working nnder artlcli . XV, that the conncll ] 
should draw up a report of the \ recommendations provided  for lo 
.paragraph IV of that article; .'
. So long' as the council;-is-engaged In drawing up a. teBojt.-of the recommendation the  ^orkHof, 
conciliation1 can cbntluue acfl it'.Ifl 
cjear. that no opportunity: for such conciliation ,wlthln . the  terms of* 
the covenant: should be mlseed. .Edens attltiide was'supported by 
Peter Munch, of I>enmerk..and:jMai-. 
lin Litvinov of Russia. .On the whole, prospects'for set; tle'ment of the, African, affair were 
very dimIt was" reported that 
Mussolini hod sold to Count Charles, 
de Chambrun, French ambassador 
?V Rom: "I will invade Ethiopia' a the date fixed a month ago:".' : Emperor Haile Selassie wired the league requesting that In view of 
the "Increasingly provocative attitude of Italy neutral observers be dispatched jto Ethiopia to establish responsibility In case a clash
^Great Britain Informed Italy thot her tremendous naval concentration 
in the Mediterranean was not Or
dered with any aggressive motive but because of the violent antl-Eog* 
Hah campaign carried oh by the Fascist press of Italy. The massing <if 
the British warships at Gibraltar, Malta, Alexandria and the Suez canal continued, and Italy respond
ed by rearranging her naval dispose 
tlona. Also.tbeflow of Italian troops 
to East Afrlca^was continuons, and It wofl announced in Rome that 200,- 
000 soldiers of the classes of 1611, 
1912, 1919 and 1614 had reported for duty. This brought to 1,000,000 
the total Italian mobilization, which, Uusaollnl some tlm% ago promised would be the mark .reached before 
October 1. .
One result of the-supposedly Unproved relations betweenEnglandand 
Italy' was' the cancellation'of the 
sailing-of'i<WCk> more Italian troops, toLibya, which colony borders -on
Egypt .. >.-
P
BEPAR1NQ for the immloent 
probability of war between Italy and Ethiopia Secretary ot State Cordell Hull established an' office ot arms' and munitions control to 
carry out the provisions ot the nsotraUty act.and ^ect federal control otlb* mnnltloBa. trafia.
The office la: under thedirection ot R, Walton Moote, assistant , sec-: 
retary. ot state. Joseph O. Green la 
chief of the office and has as His;, assistant Charles. W. Yost '
On rBoommendatlon. at thfl tLQttd
ventlon In St. Louis adopted 
with shouts of approval a resolution for active opposition to oazllem, fascism, communism and other, isms contrary to the principles enun
ciated in the CoDstUutloo. SCIU 
cheering, the delegates followed that np by asking the wUbdr&wal of 
United States recognition of Soviet Busslo,
' The veterans recommended re
cent legislation for national tietense.and called foe a larger army, 
conlJDUfltlon of the officers trainlog camps, the 0.> M. T. O. and R. O. >T. C. In schools, and for a nnvy 
equal to any in the world. They 
asked nil nations to work for world peace, and approved the neutrality resolution of the last congress. 
. Cleveland, Ohio, was awarded the 
1036 annas] convention after four 
ballots. 'The national American 
Legion band championship was won 
by the Chicago Board of Trade 
post musicians. Franklin post was 
second, Omaha third, anti Mineral Springs, Texas, fourth.
At their final session the vet
erans elccted J. Ray Morphy of Ida Grove, Iowa, national command
er, and passed a resolution demandlog immediate cash payment of the 
soldiers bonus. Vice' commanders 
cbosen were: Raymond A. Gales, of Virginia, W. E. Whitlock of South 
Carolina, Whitney Godwin of Flor
ida, Oscar Worthwlne of Idaho, Lou Probst of Wyoming.
Mrs. Melville Mocklestone of Chi
cago was elected president ot the American Legion auxiliary.
A
UBREY WILLIAMS, first assistant to Relief Administrator 
Horry Hopkins,. sold In an laterview that the unemployment probi.lem, .will, notb.e 
'.solved Ky a business pick-up unless industry "shares increased business 
with the., workers. He asserted, that 
the present gain in .business has put few more people to 
work, and explained this fact by attrifc utlng it primarily, 
to Increased efficiency which peremployers. to produce more 
goodsthanbefore with fewer employees.
Williams said there' had'beena drop in the number of people oh 
relief,- but-he attributed this largely to a 'hard-boiled1' policy under 
which -the rolls were combed of in* ellflbles.
IT OBRTAINLY IS great, to be back at schObl and getting down to some high class apple-polishing and brass tacks . . . .all summer we've been sitting around twiddling our thumbs, but at last we have something to do like-neglecting studies and cutting classes . . . jaeon, mix 
e~up another Julep, suh, ahve gotl 0g, eight thutty tomorrow and at1 calnf Offohdto go to class feelln fit': . . anyway were oil to another year of frivolity and Joy-makingl . . . those who care to study can1 go form a line in any handy telephone booth
FRESHMEN ATTENTION   those guys what wear white hats and carry paddles are irregular freshmen, left over from last year with nothing to do but annoy others - .. . you'll just have to humor them, along for awhile until they seek some other form of amusement . . . the birds that wear the black hats have passed off all their conditions and are regular fresh-t partthis
bttLt us the .Triangle Bonehead club (sometimes laughingly referred to as Delta Skulls) r   - the real big shotB are the | Dragons and you must look upon them with reverence because, they were eligible and couid run for student council .'. . and I say. if any of you freshmen can afford to be the least, collegiate please do so . . . what we need around here Is some local color
E BEST' STORIES OF THE PAST SEASON. . . Item swimming porty Iear Albany Item; apilling milk-shakes In the change bo* at the box office of the Geneva Ohio local theateritemhopping express trains after bet timeItem; asleep In a garage or the Dear old I D AItem* does '--old man work? . ... Culprits: 
(advt); JinLphJlI WISH THESE RADIO AN; I ERS would-learn to pronounce names . . . the twerp announcing . the Case game Satiddy pronounced 1 SpJsaks came Spysack noying, aint it Charlie .
WEE WII2LIE CJ^EMENTS FOUND IT NECESSARY to forego a week-1 end trip to Cleveland.. And from all reports, he missed a wonderful Jaunt, and good time which, by the way, included the 6-3 victory by the Tech Tacklers, Had Jeety been able to go, the Johnie Richmond Hotel* would probably have beeu | pressed for room. '
TWO OF THE BEST ROOTERS at the Case game were "Sputzy Terei bus' two brothers. During the game they sat behind the band, and to those on the other side of the field, every time they cheered Jt sounded as though the band wad making the vocal thunder. Came-1 gle would be belter off, if we a had two brothers as loyal to oii alma mater as these of "Sputzy; Our thanks to them.
^M^PusGroup 
- Me0s T/iursdq
The. Teknon Club, a i 
.tarian-. society, opens its. si 
year 'of religious1: disci 
Thurediy iiglit af-.;15 0.c,
the. ehapel. of. the Shadysidc . 
byterlan Chiirch.  t lhe *' 
of Dr. .Hugh T. Kerr ^ho has . 
conductlg. discussions ir 
yeari, .and; who. Is now takii 
extended, vacation in. Europe. 
;the.-Holy. Land,, the. club will ! 
under the leadership of Dr 
Daizell, associate' pastor.
. V. Tɮ. ; 'offlirs' ;'of the cr.ih
.PresIdent.vWalterfAdnso 'President,...Ka.ry^'.Wettach '4,1 tary, M y pumgtiir; TreaS ? ;Sye Fuller'...  a?uref
Don Noord, Beta ioutuj ; oim-rojilips. Kappa Sig (odvt.);. Provost & Prendes, Delts (odvt.); Dave Schmidt, Pi K. A. (ftdvt.); Field Hfiise (odvt) ...
WHAT ARB WE COMING TO . . .1 At the tea dance the other day I noticed that several students were . SMOKING ElND,TTil 5 ... Isach tscticn' continue to exist ,on( '.lhe canipus this school Is-going to) get a terrible reputation . .
DID YOU NOTICE that last week's Press had "a 'picture' ot. 'Frank Sanford . and . gave iHenrion. credit for the puss . .... theyre probsbly trying to fool the public into thinking that the. whole' team is good-looking . -. .  _
1 LOViEJ INTEREST (for them what I are Interested) . . . the SynderRowles combination is at-the baby talk stage .... .Scotty Charlesand. Mary c.asbman are making - eyes ; . :-prpfessorMcCullyand'Jobnny Morten are pbttt . . . Dames: .roller, Roberta, Starainaky, and Davis, went thru four years of. school , in the same department, all^ graduated last June,.all Seta Pis (advt.) and all .aTe'to - be married within two months of each other; three having already spliced, _the fourth, Foller & Alien, comlisg up shortly . . Ralph Davis and any number of girls (the' handsome brute) . . . personally, l. have .my eye on Jean
Lnfbf Gs e1fmp .nf LffSdENDS..- . . Joe's, atmosphere, people; Mikes, people; Bushys, atmos
phere; Webster Hall, nice lounge nice music, people; Wm. Penn, nice I music, hlklass 1
, BOB R1ESTER WAS SEEN SELV ING PiENCILS on Euclid avenue following the Cose game. .iHls to; Academy Wagon just wouldnv I'*ck to .Pittsburgh and the------- was emptyMoral of thestoryTrade the damn Lincolnin and get a iFord.
OU JOHN "DAISY SCOTTY 
CHARLES , has . made a change in motor carB. Now that he is a senior he found it necessary to better himself.. He sold his 3,92$ Stude1 ' baker touring and bought a brand new .1925 Olds. ' May the new bucket of bolts stick together un[ tilafter rushing season. Thats pur best-wishes.
THE GRAPEVINE SYSTEM TELLS us to expect some-pretty fine favors at ' the Military Ball. The .Pitt, soldier boys  had somei
,T.HE -iuwup 
TAKEN -for a rlde last weei the entire  Freshman claas line . . .  Pinkerton' and 
were busychasing, jpaddle arid managed to score quilB a ihits, -v.v the. Sophs ^had (he, 
venge that nlte when they duel the whole bunch'in Paaiher n |;low'Lake-. V-- the Plebes d$
3 ;the; bird that pmAND WHO .  U11U L1JS 
ed a "Dougias'FirbankB^ by Me; iip :the; side blLidy Rum -huse' and ;toeslng anotn heiSL 
aow . -, \ wottd' pBiime, volM
BY TH WAY^f' any 0f yo glasses,dont' like the -, 
?h tioiumn,- pleaBB jj ister. squawks p; d: q; beforks
SQUIRREL HILL 
BABBER SHOP
5823 FORBES STREET
KOOKLEYS RESTAURANT3710 PORBES STREET,; NEAR OAKLAND AVENUE
Delicious Lunches . .... . 25c 30 c'35c
DINE, DANCE EVERY EVENING i NO COVER CHAROE
u
The Soviet Film Classic
Ch apaye

The Red Commancjer 
27 Weeks on Broadway
(With Enfllish Titles)-
"MaflnifcehtNat
.pRESIDBNT ItOOSEVELTcleaned up. most of the'.official business on his desk and started on his vacation trip to. San Dlegor whence he will return through' the Panama 
canal... Mrs. Roosevelt and a large 
party of officials accompanied him 
on the speclol train, to the coast At the last minute the President 
decided to speakto the midwest farmers, and this address -was delivered Saturday at Fremont, Neb. 
The. program called for a set speech at. Boulder - dam, - another in the 
Hollywood bowl at.Los Angeles, 
and one at Sai Diego, In addition the Chief Executive talked to the gathered crowds at many f 
the operating stops. made by th train. >
D EPUBLTCAN national comrnltteemn met In Washington and began the: serious preparation of the 
Presidential campaign. It was'deClded.'unanimously, that the party efforts In the western states should 
be most vlgorops and shuld'begln immediately.  Headquarters will 1 soon be opened In Chicago with National Committeeman . Harrison Spengler f Iowa In charge, and
allocated for Its ex-penses.
The committee did . not discuss candidates or the selection of a convention-city, The= latter will not be 
chosen until the. winter meetingAt present Chicago. St Louis and Kansas City are the leading contenders 
with. the" last named in good postalr-condJ
FRAD IKHLfRj**<i kU ' . ..   J111 PIECE ORCHESTRAI
POPULAR SATURDAY NIQHT DANCES !
.Sparhlla Ea*rt*lnimnl and Floor Show 
WO CytR CHAROC... MINIMUM CHECK St.QO
smmmiLo Proff
S27 SmltMMd Street u . Oliver Building
Ut,. T.H. MmHI.,, Wow . . , ATI.gtk U6S
* Vas7

---------------------------------------------------

LE_S.ED NTPH
SAUCE

By Scotty CharlesKH
A GLANCE AT THE GRID SCORES of last Saturdays devastating 
gridiron debacles left many a strongman weeping. It seems that the 
days when big league football teams started off the season In . 
country fashion with scores approximating the International war debt 
belong to the bustle era. Prom Coast to Coast, supporters of champion
ship teams were left without finger nails, seeing their pride and Joys 
leld to a one touchdown advantage by a bunch of hard fighting la 
(rom a ihree-professor theological seminary.
TARTAN ROOTERS WERE ALSO AMONG THOSE FAVORED 
chew on their hearts through three periods of a tough battle against 
Case. The Sklbo supporters were considerably relieved when the final 
whistle blew In the Van Horn basin last Saturday. No breathei 
this, but a really tough battle to start the Pla/d off on the right foot
THE SKIBOS REALIZED IN ADVANCE what they were up against 
and were prepared to meet something tough. Here were a bunch of 
boys in Cleveland that had everything that the Plaid had except a foot
ball reputation. This was all they wanted. To start the season by 
Owning the Tartans would lift their stock considerably, so they 
out to win. Carnegie went out on the field that afternoon with every
thing slacked against them -and were stlU picked to win easily. Win 
they did, but only after a tough battle that showed decisivejy that they 
had what it takes.
REPORTS FROM CLEVELAND SINCE THE GAME only serve to 
add to the Tartan glory. That Case team was Indisputably good. They 
outweighed Tech In line and backfleld, had two fast backs, flashed 
very complex ball shifting and displayed a brand of blocking that must 
bave warmed the cockles of Ray Raders heart. A combination of 
virtues Is formidable In any team. 
IN SPITE OF THE ODDS the SklboB made good and Carnegie has 
nothing to be ashamed of. The Fighting Scots showed potential power 
and drive and more spirit than the school has seen for several seasons. 
Every men played heads up ball and gave promise of better things to 
come. Straight football was used almost all through the game by-the 
pjald and the touchdown drive of 71 yards Leh made without a pass. 
A steady march, powerful and irresistible, showed that the Sklbos were 
undoubtedly superior ond^ bad the essential reserve punch that could 
le called on when needed.
IT WOULD BE SUICIDE TO TRY to commend any one player as 
being an outstanding star. 6anford played a grand game at end, Kauchah and Henrlon were swell at tackle, the guarde were functioning 
nicely and Steve Trbovlch at center left little to be aeked for. In 
lackeld, the honors were evenly divided. Jerry Matelan Is as fir 
running back as we have seen for many a moon In this district, Charley 
Spieak did a grand Job of ball toting, Freddy Lehman and Babe Patt 
were both good In their-positions and Coleman Kopcsak seems to an 
swer that crying need for a good quarterback /
AS TO CRITICISM OF THE TARTANS there is something to say. 
A touch of fumblltis Is still evident, probably just a habit from seasons 
past. The defense is weaker this year than jt has been hut will prob
ably improve as the season goes on. The blocking Is still erratic, but 
this can be remedied before the season has past. In'apite of these 
shortcomings, prospcts are good for a more successful season thanwe have seen tor some time. With some real support, the Plaid griddera can do things this year.
THIS SATURDAY WILL BE THE ACID TEST of the team. 
Against the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, who are hitting th come
back trail with a vengeance, the Sklbos will need everything to con 
through victorious. The Big Green had a little easier time of li.tfc 
the Scotch this week, beating, a noteworthy Kansas-team-20'te 7. vThls 
1U something of a traditional battle In these parts and a big crowd will 
probably be out to see the teams In .action. If the Tartans can take 
this hurdle In stride against the heavy odds which are Inevitable, the 
season's prospects will be the best since the halcyon days of 1928.
ONE THING THE FOOTBALL PLAYERS MISSED, this week-end 
was that swell rebroadcast of the game over the local station. The 
announcers had a swell time mutilating the names of the Scotch AllAmericans. Some'of the aside comments left the listeners limp. 
Typical instance: That Charley Splsak boy Is. certainly 166 pounds of 
dynamite, soaking wet .
TO EASE THE MINDS OF THE LOCAL ROOTERS we suggest a 
Ulance at the scores made by Carnegie's opponents to come. Notre 
 Dame won 28-7, Temple -Just beat Centre, Duqueane lost to Raneas 
; State, Hofy Cross beat Providence by only two touchdowns, and-Pitt 
...couldn't do any better against Waynesburg. Polish up that sliver 
lining, Abercrombie, grandpas In the mootf for lust.
ONE OF OUR NICEST ORCHIDS GOES TO KNOX this week. 
They went down in disgrace by beating Principia 1-0 on'.three fluke 
touchdowns which they really didn't want. This gives Principia the 
slightly disputed Utle of the world's worst football team. Incidentally;
have discovered two Tech students who spent several years at 
Principia; however, we withheld their names for decencys sake. The 
disputer to the title Is Richmond High School of Long Island. The hoys 
here swear that anybody can beat them and are willing to prove it. 
^ast year they had -280 points scored against them without getting In
side Lheir opponents forty-yard line. This year they have eight candi
datos for the team (three of them are managers) out of a student body 
ef three thousand.
THE CARNEGIE SOCCER TEAM, as yet an unrecognized sport 
*99rgatlon, starts -work this week on the Forbes and Woodlawn field. 
tWe regret to. say that the entire announcement has been lost but de
tails can be had from the physical education, department. Their schedu|e is still Incomplete hut the team Is getting ready for all comers. 
The team is practically the same as last years and should be a good 
One as long as it remains unrecognized, the facts being that such a 
procedure would ruin everything because of eligibility requirements.
L >'
FRESHMAN SPORTS WRITERS ARE WANTED and needed by 
toe currently depleted staff. ' All plebes interested in this aort -of thing.. 
Should report to the Tartn office Sunday atternoon alter 2:30.______
fighting Irish 
Face Carnegie
Notre Dame, Hampered 
By Ili Luck, Fears 
Tartan Menace
South Bead Sports Scribe 
Supplies Inside Story 
On Laydenmen
By Jim WaldronNotre Dame Sports Editor
When an irishman goes Into 
battle with a wonder what theyll 
do next expression on bis face, 
thats news. Yet a band in green 
from Notre Dame are cautiously 
building up their defeases for a 
game with the Carnegie Tech Tar
tans next Saturday. Why? Be
cause only a few years back the 
same leader of todays Tartans, 
befuddled ft potentially great irlsb 
team on the threshhold ot a Na
tional football championship.
Coach Elmer Layden of Noire 
Dame once headed a team in the 
Smoky City and he knows only too 
well the bag-of tricks and fighting 
spirit which stamp a Carnegie 
Tech team. He Is fixed with the 
rather singular task of building up 
confidence In hiB men. In his first year as coach at Carnegie Tech, Howard Harpsier justlded the misgivings which Notre Dame had, by putting a smart, clever teai the field which struck swiftly and then defied all assaults at its goal.
Before this football season began, Notre Dame had a powerful teamon paper. Since then the luck ot the Irish was given
American center was declared Ineligible. because of five .minutes of B team play In his sophomore year, and finally Bill Smith, the watch-charm guard, was lost for the season. To fill these gaping holes in the line Is almoBt impossible, but Layden has uncovered some promising material. Wayne ifllllner, varsity end for and Marty Peters, giant basketball star, have the inside track on the end positions with Joe ONeill, the longest kicker on the squad, giving Mlllner a real battle. Dick Pfefferle has taken over the left tackle post while the veteran Johnny Mlchuta Is on the other side the line. Johnny Lautar, Elmer Zenner, .Harry Becker, a converted tackle, and Sonny Church, another watch-charm guard, will alternate at the gu'ard po9tsi With Jack Rob; inson out of the picture, the' snapper back duties will be filled by
get these backs Into the open. Andy Pilney, Bill-Bard Shakespeare and Wilke
Brother Mike Layden and Vic WoJIng all their chips on the . table. Howard Harpster may once again hold the winning hand, but what
Presents again lor your Dancing Pleasure 
every FRIDAY and SATURDAY Evening
< (Informal cwK
?Pittsburgh's Favorite Dance Orchestra
$1.00 par puton* including breakfast at midnight
Ticket Exchange 
At A. A, Office
Max Hannum of the Graduate Managers office wishes 
to remind students that tickets for the Carnegie home football games are to be obtained this week. These include (he tickets to the ' Notre Dame, Temple, and Duquesne games in the stu- dent sections of Pitt Stadium.
These tickets ; may be obtained by upperclassmen today for seats in the section nearest the centerof the field. Freshmen may obtain their tickets at the Athletic. Office Ion Wednesday and Thursday. To obtain tickets, it is necessary to have a regular Carnegie Student Athletic Card which must - be shown at tbe office.
C.S. EDMANPRINTERHAzel 0193
6470 Monitor Street
Tough Win Oyer Case 
Opens Season for ^Plaid
Tartans Score Late
Stiff Battles 
Mark Results 
Of Plaid Foes
Small Teams Surprise As 
Major Elevens Win 
By Close Scores
Although Carnegie had quite a 
tough time of It last Saturday dis
posing of-Case, she can also-look 
with hope upon the results of -her 
future rivals who on'the most' part 
wer<$ either winning,, with one ex
ception, by none too imposing 
scores or were idle. .
Notre Dame, who meets the 
Plaid in - Saturdays homecoming 
clash, were the most successful in 
their Initial appearance a'g&iitst kansaB University, defeating thd Jayhawkers decisively, 28-7. N,;Y. D. was Idle. Holy Cross pulled, a rather close one out. of' the - bagwhen she managed to down Providence to the tune of 12-0. Last Friday night, in Philadelphia, Pop Warners Owls defeated a fighting Center College eleven, 25 to 13. The lone defeat in the teams which make up the Tartan schedule occurred'last Friday night also when a cocky Kansas State team mae short work of the Dukes, trimming them decisively, 12-0. Pitt, who will engage in a conflict with Carnegie on Thanksgiving Day w$s not having such a pleasant afternoon ' last Saturday .either. A scrappy Waynesburg squad held the highly touted Panther team to two touchdowns'' and. 'the - game ended 14-0. > :These results along with .the reat scrap put up by Plaid Bbould
Freshmen Tankmen. 
Askedto Report
Coach Allen E. Rlsedorph, mentor of the Carnegie Tech . swimming team, has issued a call' for all aspirants to. theschools freshman team. Those wishing to try out for this squad are requested to report in the swimmipg pool ' on Monday, October 7, at 4:30; ready.to swim.
students - of . the - freshman . ;ciass 'or tranefer students ' in 'their first year at Carnegie.
district and numeral sweaters are awarded tp those/scoring sufficient points'.
Bicycle Riding 
Rented by the Hour
4512 FORBES STREET . 
Next To Museuffv
Third Period Touchdown 
By Kopcsak Turns ' 
Tide of Battle
PLAID DRIVES 71 YDS. 
AS RIDERS FALTER
Gallant Final Quarter Stand 
Staves Off Case Last 
Minute Attack
By Johnny Weinberg
An inspired Case eleven formed a foe for Carnegies grid warriors last Saturday with an almost undreamed of stubborn opposition. For three quarters the Rough Riders from Cleveland held the Plaid well in hand and things -looked very dark indeed, uutil Coleman Kopesak. the sophomore quarterback, plunged through left guard
beck to Pittsburgh very much relieved.Prominent In Carnegies thrilling defense as Case threatened ro> peatedly were Nestor Henrlon and Frank Sanford. Henrlon was In praoticolly every play,' tackling herd and opening up holes in the
tiro game..- Case bad a heavier team than the SklboB all around. In addition, they possessed n crow of hard driving linesmen" and very efficient backs. Until the third quarter, when a sustained drive down the field for more than fifty yards gagained. for themselves a very sweet victory, Indeed. The. end of the third quarter halted the Tar-__ drive for a short time, buttliere was no Btopplng these boys who bad the reputation of the school as well as themselves, in their hands. Led by CharleySplsak, they c6ntlnued drivingthe QaBe line. With the ball on the' Case six-yard line as the last quarter started, SplsakIce hit that forward wall for yard gains, and on a third attempt he managed to scrape up another yard. Kopcsak then'took the situation into his own bands, capably too, for on the nsxt' play.
Tech BarberShop
 - Craig ai?d Forbes 
Oakland
liberty Engraving CompanyL ' flNOPAvaee
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR,NEWS end COMMERCIAL
'ART-----rFOP ALL ILLU STRATIVE 
PURPOSES
52
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
'THE OAKLAND 
BANS"
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
with one yard to go, he hurled himself through left guard and'over the line with the score that meant victory for the Tartans.
With twelve firstdowns for Case
an idea of the stiff competition c
temps of Patt and Kopcsak and the Rough Riders were credited with more yardage picked up on the plunging Bide of the argui
ball to Case's 15-yard line, where momentarily they lost the ball. Teckmeyer kicked out, but the Plaid brought It right back again on . some more clever running by Matelan and Patt. The tide took its almost fatnl turn there when Znidorsic recovered, Matelaus fumble and the Case warriors started their attack going at full sway.
- The second period saw Case still in command of the situation! and the field goal kicked by Mlchovsky after a pass from Kalnl to Lyle followed by a lateral to -Teckmeyer netted 34 yards putting the ball on the Scotch 15. was a lucky escape in the end, for the Tartan chances.A couple ot more passes and n shot nt tho line by Mlchovsky as the last period opened, pushed the Sklbos back to their own thirteen. But there they put on as great
of tbe ball but Kopcsaks punt which was partially blocked rolled out on the 20, and once more tho Riders seemed bent on breaking the brilliant defensive their opponagain in the midfield A last thrust'was started with a ten-yard heave to Wcgner. but SplBak ended the trouble when he knocked down another pass and the whistle blew ending a very entertaining day at^Cleveland, indeed.
Carnegie Co-Gaptains Outstanding 
At Halfback and Center Positions:
The athletic council, following 
the custom of several years, saw fit 
to name the two Steves sh co-captalns this year. Both boys are 
veteranswhose records have rec
ommended them to share1 the honora. Steve. J.vTerebua has-used-hls 
148. pounds to a good advantage lu 
the' fastest company in his-years 
iber of the varsity. He isn versatile back, for he <
pass easily and surely. In the Case game he was forced to watch the action from the bench, due to an aukle Injury. This injury, sue* tulned early in the training season, may keep Steve out ot several tuore games this year.Steve M. Trbovlch, who hae had a great deal to do with the center
of the Carnegie line tor several ' years, is acting as captain with ! TerebuB. He.-' too.' is light - in * weight to be playing college football. He tips the scale at 170. At ; the - -Importantposition at the. center of the line, he plays an alert > beadS'tip-ball-game.- Heia tf sure ; passer on the offense and a steady ! player oh defense. Despite 'his [ weight, he handles most of the op* position plays through the middle i zono. j
Both boys are from Pennsylvai nia. Trbovlch Is from Midland i arid Terebus is from Johnstown. ! The choice of co-captalns assures  Coach Howard Harpster that one 
. the Sidelines .;
fART TO GLASSES
The Parker TAoimustioInventod by a Vnivenlty 
Prolessor to replace pens 
that anddenly ran dry In
Holds 12,000 words of ink-102% 
more than old style .  , When 
held to the light you can see tho 
Ink Levela^euhen to rejiHt
r h iH marvelous new Parker VacuX mode is no more tike the pens of yesterday than jour 1935 car is like a *25 modeL
. Its the identical pen youve often 
said that someone ought to invent.
Scores of inventors tried tofully 250 sacfeas pens were patented be* 
fore .this miracle writer was bom. Bat none found a way to snrmount - the mechanical faults of squirt-gun .piston pumps, valves, etc.
Then a.sctentfat at the University of Wisconsin conceived the Vacurundc. Ahd.Gco. S. Parker world s leading pen maker, agreed to develop 
it bccauso it contained no rubber eao or lever filler like sac-type pensno piston pump as'in ordinary eacless
- Thats why Parker canand DOESguarantee s. the Vacumatio MECHANICALLY PERFECT!
. iBccaoae-thcre is nothing ebo like 
it* tho UnitedStates and foreign countries bare granted Parker 
patents. ;
This original stylo creation intro
duces luminous laminated Pearl and Jotyet when bcl<t to tbo light tbe "Jet rings becomo transparent, ro. vcaling tbe level of ink!
Step into any good store selling pens, and sco it.-Tbe Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wia,  
FREE I Send a Post Cord for 
NwInkThatCleanses jffe
dlat that llBoivcs ecdlmeat, left ordinary lulo. Ends dogglDg. Qot.j
try^REE. iddns, eptlT*
J. R. WELDIN CO.
Headquarters for PARKER FENS and PENCILS 413-415 WOOD STREET 
'Fountain Pena Repaired Promptly
Woodlawn Pharmacy
Ystb ow1te pbtU e.sbf
MERCHANDISE DIRECTORY
.Druoa..,.''Toilet ArtleleeCandyCloh*. -Plpesr-Tebaeco Fountain. Service.
School -Supplies TechStationery' Steins Makeup - Greeting Cards 
Books~Non-Flctlon
Try Our Luncheonette for a Quick, Tasty Bite 
5200 FORBES STREETLOU GORDON, Prop., Pb.Q.
For Free-DeliTeiy Service Call SChenley 6300 :
Announcing the Fall Opening of... .
SKIBO INN
6100 Margaret Morrison Street
Bringing to the Campus Delicious Breakfast, Lunch, Supper and Soda Grill Service 
Large Assortment of Freshly Baked Goods at all Times
Under persona] managempnt of
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
Forbes Street and Oakland Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TABTAN, TUESDAY. OCTOBEB 1. 1935
Night School 
Section of 
Tartan
General News-Editorial Com
mentFraternal OrganizationsN. S. C. Financial Summary 
Editorial -- Fall Fashions
Appearing in 
This Weeks 
Is sue
x Fall Fashions
. As Is customary at Cbls particu
lar season of the year, mauy new 
fall. styles make their appearance 
throughout me length and breadth 
ot the country. It makes little 
difference whether the change be 
radical or conservative or whether 
it be wrought suddenly 
the': natural course of events, 
nevertheless on all fronts 
cou^cious of many new patterns of 
life.
. Even the climate and landscape 
. undergo a major face-lifting opera
tion. Leaves that were known to 
be; green have donned 
luresque dress of russet. Through 
the medium of the newspaper we 
. are - kept abreast of the new fall 
trends in clothing and it is at this 
time of the year too, that 
names and faceB appear on the 
political horizon. In short, at t 
. coming of the autumn season, t 
whole world seems to develop 
new personality.
"Asbo In keeping with the trend 'of th time, the Carnegie Plaid too bas washed it face and donned .new dress, unitorm. As note, this year:we bare ' few changes in the appearance of our page which we hope will . the Plaid more interesting, at least . typographical standpoli
A.C. Grimm Resumes Duties 
Of Night Council President
FINANCIAL SUMMARY, 1934-35 
Night Student Council
/section of the Tartan edited by and devoted-to the interests of the . Night student body. With the adcampus will ' have little difficulty in' -BBcertAining the location of the $ight . school, page. In passing it jB.bf'lntereBtto note.that the new : banner; was .executed by a Night .etudept' .regBtered i the College of-Fine'Atte.' The boxes/at either >6ldeiof-the/bnner" complete they-L................................
 '.-in keeping with the policy insti''tufd::by-''tV/Wd'-;iaat;;y!BBr, we Bhlcontinue to print, editorials .written, bythe Night school editor and hie staff independent of Tartan.^supervision. .In'this way b'-be our pleasure to presebt niibiafled account'of the newsantf : .-Tiews-of. the. Night: school.- 
:^;;;-It(lB' bopd.'that with, the new 'cbange.B': which .have-'been made, th;. Night students will .-take , a . liiiore active interest Jn-.the'.publica. iln> of :tbe Piald and will manifest ^^lj^api)recletloh ; by. their criti: cim9!and';,cbntrlbution3. After' all, 'th^-^ppimc .'pi.- the f, paper y/ill not receivetfi' V^tple hearted cooperation -of theetudent body. r 
..V-'.'j6^; Night student may - submit : cppy. for-publicallon In. the Plaid, ;4We : would particularly appreciate ar.tfcies from 'th Drama .and Music , dOTartmente ftherCllg of.Fine : Arte; ;Many flce entertalnmnts are [  presented by the ; Arts group of : vwhfjh the., students. registered in., tlt^otlief ^colleges have little or no }.; Jmbwledge,. ;The staff will-endeavi ^or^tbvcoyer.all newg and events of  ^^^Nlght^cbopltut the students (n^aealBt - ifi /mabine our tasks J /uEliter: .If :X^ey ',. will'.support us by ( the'ir .contributions.to the Plaid.'
Tis Said
We hair.-.THAT in America one says,  fits the nuts, while In Gerthey say, Its Vhe .Nazl.' iAT^our forme innon, has' join ..of: the; newly weds.4- ^THAT. you will have to put ! -up with, me aeafn ithfs year.1. . THAT ^e Night student couh.dgggg oil-.-f-rcelved a bo* labeled,J student council.''J .THAT it looks like the begini' -.-nlna' of another big social aea-/.THAT Art Grlmrr .formula for Pecan Rolls."- THAT Dal McKllways license t curves than Mae
Past Record Warrants 
His Continuation In 
This Policy
resumes his duties as president of the Night student council for the year 1935-36. It will be recalled Ibet Mr. Grimm has already served in this capactty having been elected during the latter part of the past school year to fill the vacancy seated by the resignation of Mi J. A. Blocbinger.
more intimately
there from Zelienople.; He was graduated from tbe Zelienople high Bchool in 1925 and entered the College of Engineering at Carnegie In 1927. Mr. Grimm will be a ca didate for a degree and diploma Civil engineering at the end of the current yeai From the standpoint of appearRECEIPTS
1933-34 ...........? 396.36Activities Fees .. 2.324.00 Council Dances1933-34 ........... 1.00Council Dances '1934-35 i......... 772.45Thistle 1934-35 .. 20.00Total Receipts..'---------
EXPENDITURES
Handbooks .........| 371.55,-Ities .. Alllieges .......... 814.17Council Dances 501.32
dent. He neither dances nor has | time for the girls: His one passion however Is tennis at which sport I he excels. Mr. Grimm is employed1 by Columbia Mills, Inc.activities record Mr. Grimm has been awarded three Insignias, has served as secretary and vice-president of the College of Engineering and as vice .president of the Night student council.
Register For
Employment
Social Calendar 
issued For Year
Several Functions Will Be 
Held in Thistle Hall
The 1935-38 night student . Handbook, which waa distributed  time of registration, lists the social events on the calendar for .the rent school' year. \The booklet, which was . edited 'during th sumliner .months by John Schurko, also contains the answers to many questloDB.that niay .arise frm timihistory of Night .student council, theorganization. which Is in charge..f the variedsocial func; tlone, is IncljuddIn th book. - Social events, will begin wllb individual . college ; elections, -which, lime tbie officers for the rent 'school, year , will be elected.
b the College, of,Fine D.lhP two by the .College of .Industries, and dance and. an annual banquet held by the College of Engfneerin;
Student Council 
Presents Awards
thirty dollars value each to _ 
serving night student. In each ; of| tbe three colleges. The awards based on a students activities re& ord and his or ber scholastic stand
ing. The awarda are usually made at the Insignia presentation dinner.
The scholarships this year were awarded to William Maurer who was registered in the College of Engineering, Edmund ' Dreeen of | the College of Industries.and Floyd Grimes of the College of Fne Arts. All three students have been awarded Insignias and have taken part in Night school activities.,, 1
As last year was Mr. GrimesI first year-both on the Carnegie campus and in the College of Fin Arts he Is to be commended onthe fact that he is but the second student to have ever been awarded a scholarship based on bis first year's
The Bureau of Recommenda
tions, located on Ihe first floor of 
the Administration building, is at tbe disposal of all nightstudents who are at present unemployed or who stay be seeking positions which re more Intimately associated with their particular studies.Since the bureau operates in the interest of the students, it would be of advantage to all who are seeking employment, lo make use of the opportunity afforded them, by registering at the employment of-";e aa soon, as possible. I _ ..________
Appointments may be arranged change In policy was made lo the either by phone or by calling perhope of stimulating the interest bt .' the., bureau on either I first year student^ both In-ihelr, tThiirsday evening be-- echolaatlc ,work and;,la-the act,Ivi-.| .a sgo95  } 0f the night school.
Plaid 1934-35 .ships1933-34Scholarships1934-36 ...........Thistle 1934-35 ,.. Student ActivitiesBuilding.........TblBtle Hall ' Decorations ... Total 
Expenditures
Council Keys 
Are Awarded 
Workers For 
Year 1934-35
Social Chairman 
Assumes Duties
activities record.
This fact was . made possible through the revision by the Night student council of the rules gov~~nlng the scholarship awardB.
sen 6:30" and 8:30.
Ih'accordauce with the rules 
governing the appointment of so-. 
;ciafchairman;.Mr. Russell.A. Lahr 
K'Vho was assistant social chairman 
\wrrlngthe past year automatically 
assumes the duties., of sociai chairfor the present year. In this 
capacity it will be bis duty 
pervise all social functions of the 
Night student council and to han
dle, tbe distribution of tickets for 
said affairs.
Mr. Lahr, who has been on the 
Caraogle campus since 192S has 
had valuable experience under the 
leadership of Mr. Herbert Stone, 
the retiring social cbalrman. It 
was through Mr. . Stones efforts 
that many Innovations were introduced at last year/s 6oc1al events. :
;Mrs lahr is registered in the College of'Engineering. In addition to his present office, he has held the office'of Secretary of the C.olJege of Engineering and has been a.member of the Night student/ council during the past year. Mr. Lahr la a member of the Nu Sigma Alpha and-Phi Nu fraternities, y. The . staff of-the Carnegie --Plaid joins with the incoming Council in wishing the new social chairman a' successful' year. 1
Fifty-Five Avfi.rds 
Made at Haddon 
Hall Qinner
For the second year in succession tbe annua] Insignia presentation dinner of tbe Night student council was,, beld in Haddon hall on the evening of June 25, 1935. A larger number of night students were in attendance and a-very pleasant dinner was enjoyed by all. The occasion, however, was saddened by the sudden death of Professor R. B. Leighouf who was to,have been a guest.
Immediately following the din-1 ner, the'various members , of tie Night student council and the staff of the Carnegie Plaid were introduced. Mr. Dalziel McKelway and Dr. Webster N. Jones spoke briefly of Night school activities and paid glowing tribute to the late Profee~ >r Lelghou and hlB endeavors.Tbe msignlas were presented by Mr. A. CGrimm, president of the Night student council.' A total of1 fifty-five students received the award. Mr.* E. E. McDonald .had the distinction of being the only nighi student to have received the eleventh, a certificate. The next highest award, the seventh, was pre. seated to Mr. H. E. RfcGannon, former editor of the Plaid.
The following received first to fifth awards: J. W. Blthel, D. O. Davis, RC F.''Grimes, R. i.'Kre|c,' H. F. Mattern, A. J. Stefans, E. Var~see, Steve Borovich, R. T. Donoi, W. E. Hake, T. M. LaRosa, H.
In Memorium
It is with regret that the 
Plaid announces the death of 
Professor Robert B. Lelgbou 
during the early summer. Since 192$, he was Associate director of the Night school. His many - friends and the Plaid staff wish to take this opportunity to ex-. press the_lr deepest sympathy to his widow and family. The Night school has suffered an Irreparable loss in the. passing of this true friend ond supporter.
Parking Regulations At 
^ Carnegie aTe Enforced
With tbe opening of the Night school and the resumption of the football games at Forbes Field the student body is again reminded of the parking difficulties in the vicinty of Carneg'>articulariy t: egJstration.urged to .park their care i together as possible and i necessary gags so that a large num* ber of care may be accommodated.
As a safeguard to those who have the campus, the foll regulations have No parking la peri the Industries side of themltted
drive^ paralleling industries"' and 
, right engleLangley Lab. Ho'the curb parking _ _________
the park side of this drive."* No parking Is permitted on the Quadr between barriers on this
Plaid Seeks 
Student Aid
The Plaid staff consists ot an <a\. 
tor. news editor and three associate 
editors, representing the three Indi
vidual colleges. As' has been the 
custom, the present editor and new8 editor were appointed immediacy after the close of the past school year. The staff which has edited this issue of the Plaid is however, as yet incomplete.
At the present time, there are several vacancies <m the stall. Any night student may become eligible for one of tbe positions by reporting at the Publication room located on the first floor of the Industrie building any Friday evening in tbe nearfuture between eight and ten clock. The only requisites a. that that candidate show a willingness to cooperate with the staff at all times and have a fair knowledge of the English language. Since the work .involved, in the.editing of tbsPlaid page is of a varied nature, it is-not necessary that the candidate he a -finished writer.
Ruling Governs 
All Plaid Copy
Night students who are desirous of submitting articles for publicslion in the Plaid are requested to
for publication should be typewrit' in double-spaced form. In add!- , a carbon copy of the article or articles should be sent to the NightIhrig, H. A. Durbin, Reita M. Lahr,W. j. NoJgot, H. S. Vaughn, A. W.Bluemle, A. . A. Gonlin, Joseph _ ____________Tracht,- R. W. Graham,-R. A, Lahr,.[.faith and. as a means of crediti^ne A. C. Grimm, John Schurko, Wm. *J ^1 
student council.
AJ1 copy should bear the name of the contributor as evidence of good
ry; i. cC Jankowlak, C. V Price, H. j. Shappacker, W. Wesseley Dr. W. N. JoneB, J. Ackerman, H; E. Ingram, A. Lain, c. F. Roup, E. w Drensen, H. H. Krebs. Wm D. Maurer,E. A. Sipler, Dr. Rosoe M.,
A. Vensel, D. J. Jones, G. W VesH. B. Stone, G. R. McCormack, r[Lahr, E. F. White, C. A. Blochlnger, C. E. Blochlnger and A. JLois.
Following the awarding of Insignias, Mr. B. E. McDonald presented the Night student council with a gavel block, a companion piece to i the gavel presented last year by1 jpr.. Kent Shaffer.
| points toward the'Insignia award. Students not having access to a typewriter are requested to brine their copy to the Publication room where it will be typed by a member of the staff.
Contributions addressed t< Plaid editor, may be dropped lithe
building, thereby elimlnand Nu Sigma Alpha, social and honorary fraternities.' > The cale* dar Is arranged-In such a way as to afford tbe night-student ah opportunity to relax from the monotony of class work and to make ihe hours spent at Carnegie mo'ri joyable.
NIGHT: LIGHTS
but this wild move was later gretted. . . A1 was 31 years old, he claims He was the re-ipient of a. large assortment of gifts; all ot them, being articles that the. doners, had around the house ,and could no longer see any use for! Who contributed the baby bottle?Miles Malnwarlng took the fatal step around August 1 and the cards now read' "Mr.- and Mrs.. Bob Lahr, practically an-ol< timer, celebrated  bis eighth wed-niversary.laat week .
> havent discovered
with ue again.' THAT \^-- a 'few. new this year:-.-THAT the election around the corner.THAT thia Is the begl-nnlng of tha end
i Just
CCarnrgie piatii
6r Night Sehdot tudei Mi^mtge'- IiuUtuto.'of.' TechnolOKT*'.J faw'.oroplolonj: expn)M<JJn ,th 4ilo'EDWARD F. WDIITE - NcwrEdlUrt ;;OOHNELlUa:A.;BLOCHrNG
w. Gnhui 
A
Another item in the domestic column is the news that Mrs: Russell Lahr (Reita Berkenbush) has opened a dress shop at the corner of Forbes and Craig.The. Dave Davises spent the Labor Day week-end In Atlantic City, the home of the fre'e. other member. of the party
turning up hla nose' at the '
feelg hla real vocation lies, in public speaking. "Tbe - - voice mightier than the pen., says Bill. / and you can t be Bued for breach of promise!*. Art Grimm, a glutton tor punishment, just finished a two-weeks' surveying course at Tech - - ThePM NU& lra\i one of Hiieir-roaJoi* flings this summer at the "House by tlxe Side of the Road" (proving what I ve claimed for many a year. that the boys are sentimental at heart) Many of them are displayhJe nose to the grJndstone-'all er, and consequently hasnt done' thing'that Night Lights can reMaybe the-wild life
And then of course, there s Ed White-but - there, maybe it1 s beat >ep on the good elde of the
