\
HOMECOMING 1983
\

---------------------------------------------------

i
Hill Street stars Charles Haid, Mark Frost, Barbara Bosson, Steve Bochco, and Bruce Weitz stroll through 
CMU once again.
Torch bearers fight the wav the opening of Homecom
ing 83.
'Iff; Bsm m immM
fIIplt? **^: 'r ' ' %:.  %f ' -Jg\ t WSmm: ri;
f~ Hili S
John Wessels and Lee Ann Huckenstein take a spin after winning Mr. 
Miss Varsity.
The Tartans rolled over W&J, 20-0.

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 3
dark not qualified to replace James Watt
rr\xlk 1-oQ htej"
* I TbiitJK TdiS AlCool PoLiCy -SrJFF 
5 GTTitG A UTrlE CT Of Mb. '
Voting for Miss Varsity censored
By Nate SolanoIt has come to my attention that the balloting for Mr. and especially Miss Varsity this past week was not handled in an intelligent or fair manner.The specific incident which draws great controversy concerns the handling of write-in votes cast for TANYA (the husky). Rumor has it that votes cast for this unlucky female of her species were disposed of without tabulation.I hope you will agree that purging of responsible individuals would constitute
the only fair policy response. Voting is a sacred right of all students and such disregard tor said rights by .responsible persons may only be classified unjust acts of conservatism.Of course these individuals will undoubtably respond that those persons seeing fit to cast votes for TANYA, in some way, compromised the dignity of the election. To those persons I respond, ask your next sirloin steak how much of the cow s dignity it has managed to retain. Ten to one it wont say anything but sizzle.It is also possible that these dregs may
quote some technicalities preventing TANYAs election in an effort to cutely avoid the true issue at hand. To these I respond, go work on your resume!!In my own heart (of hearts) TANYA will always be the most true Miss Varsity.I will be in my office this week Wednesday from 3:30-5:00 p.m. and Thursday from 8:30-10:00 p.m.
Love,
NEXT WEEK: Drinking, Driving, and Match Heads.
ROTC parallels civilian education
By Stuart ShapiroIt defies rational analysis.That seems to be the operative phrase following last weeks designation of Motional Security Advisor William P. Clark as James Watts replacement as Secretary of the Interior. People at both ends of the political spectrum find the choice disturbing. 
Everyone finds it astonishing. Yet, closer examination of the decision suggests that it really doesnt defy rational analysis. Its just necessary to keep in mind that Ronald Reagan made the decision being analyzed.So lets look at the question of job qualifications. William P. Clark has none. This tremendously simplifies the task of evaluating them, but makes the choice of Clark somewhat perplexing. The problem, however, is that most people are trying to understand whats going on in light of conventional political and managerial wisdom.
What most people overlook or have already forgotten is that William P. Clark has absolutely no qualifications for his current position, had no qualifications for the one he held before that, and had extremely dubious ones for the job he held prior to that. There is simply no historical evidence that William P. Clark has ever been even remotely qualified by training or experience for any government post he has held. He was underqualified when Governor Reagan ^appointed him to a California judgeship. He was totally unqualified for the position President Reagan gave him (or any position he could have given him) in the State Department. There was nothing to recommend him for the sensitive job of National Security Advisor, his next port of call courtesy of President Reagan. And now hes moving on to Interior with the blessings of guess who.
What would have been shocking was if William P. Clark did have any qualifications for the job of Interior Secretary. Past experience has clearly demonstrated that in the case of William P. Clark, the question of qualifications in the conventional sense is simply irrelevant. That is not what Ronald Reagan cares about
What Ronald Reagan cares about is that in Clark he has a known and unwavering ideological quantity. William P. Clark fulfills a function akin to that of a utility out
fielder; he can be moved wherever he is needed. The only credential required is his steadfast, simple-minded conservatism. And that is precisely why Ronald Reagan confidently places him in job after job regardless of his consistent lack of suitability. As long as Clark displays that dull edged conservatism and deep personal commitment to his leader, Reagan knows that Clark will undoubtedly do whatever Reagan himself would have done  a pretty scary thought.With William P. Clark at hand, Reagan doesnt have to be Reagan. He can count on Clark to be Reagan. So Clarks move to Interior shouldnt really be that shocking. Liberals may hate the thought of what hell do when he gets there. Conservatives may hate the thought that hell no longer be doing what hes been doing as National Security Advisor. But in the end they all agree on one thing: William P. Clark is a portable verison of Ronald Reagan. That is what makes him such a valuable member of the Reagan team.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The Tartan.
continued from page 2of reserve leadership serve our country well in the event of a national emergency? Who else is going to defend our country?
I am delighted that there are growing numbers of responsible, dedicated young men and women who have figured out the answers to these questions and who are wil
ling to serve their country. They realize that there is no free lunch. If we are to remain free, maintain our liberty, and protect our values and American way of life, someone must be willing to defend it, and yes, even be prepared to fight and perhaps die for it! I am honored and privileged to live in a country and society where individuals have the freedom to criticize ROTC and the military. I would fight again to protect and insure their freedom to be able to do that. I deeply believe in freedom of the press and further believe that constructive criticism of our institutions, including our armed forces, is healthy. As I look at countries where freedom of speech is suppressed, I become quickly convinced that I would not want to live there.I sincerely believe that the leadership and managerial skills we can assist the student in acquiring, the sense of responsibilty, integrity, courage, and self-confidence we can help develop, will be tremendous assets to any career or profession. Many thousands of ROTC graduates continue to make significant contributions to our society in literally every occupation and field of endeavor. I know of no profession where leadership qualities are a hindrance. Perhaps the Military Science Department is the best place on campus to major in leadership.I see our ROTC program as completely complementary to, and in concert with, the goals and objectives of our civilian academic institutions. We are all in the business of setting our young people up for success. And scholarship and officership are not mutually exclusive.
To those who would attack the program because we adhere to certain physical, academic, moral, and ethical standards, and who claim that these requirements are unfair or undemocratic, I would submit that all of our officers must be prepared to fight and lead our soldiers into batde. That ultimately stressful and perhaps unfair and undemocratic circumstance, and the awesome responsibility that it encompasses, dictates a high standard which I believe is supported, if not demanded, by our society, and a standard for which I do not apologize.
The Army, as a profession, is not for everyone. ROTC is not for everyone, but I admire and respect those 73,800 college students, and 119,600 high school students, who are enrolled in Army ROTC, and the thousands of students enrolled in Air Force and Navy' ROTC. The overwhelming majority of them will not choose the military as their profession: most will not serve on extended active duty, but they recognize the tremendous benefits of, and the need for, the ROTC program, and they are willing to serve their country should the need arise. I sincerely appreciate the support erf thousands. of college presidents, deans, professors, and high school principals, teachers, and parents. They recognize that our program will, in fact, help our countrys most precious resource, our young people, to BE ALL YOU CAN BE. ARMY ROTC
Brigadier General Curtis F. Hoglan 
Commanding General 
First Reserve Officers Training Corps
Region
A LONG TiMe ByNa tNe 
iN aN eCONOMY FaR, FaR aWaY...
___REAGANOMICS________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 18, 1983
Housing demands rise suddenly in many colleges
(CPS) Barb Zicari, a history major at Marquette Univ., found herself stuck into a rented hotel room this fall, instead of moving into a university dorm as shed expected.To Zicari, its great In fact, Id never go back to the dorms if I didnt have to. Here, you dont have to worry about doing your towels or linens, and a maid comes in every day and cleans the place up.But to Marquette officials, its a terrible situation. Besides placing Zicari and 29 other women students in the Continental Hotel, theyve had to rent additional floors erf a nearby YMCA and convert dorm lobbies into temporary living quarters for their new students.The cost is significant The damage to a schools reputation as a desirable, comfortable place to study can be bigger.But a number of schools across the country are sustaining such damage, as dorm officials are being surprised by the number of students who have shown up asking to move into dorms in recent weeks.Besides Marquette, Middle Tennessee State, Western Michigan, Iowa State, Connecticut, West Liberty State, Notre Dame and Oklahoma, among others, unexpectedly have run out of dorm space.Most of the Big Ten schools are pretty much at capacity or in need of special housing for their overflow, reports Gary North, housing director at the University of Illinios and past president of the Association erf College and University Housing Officers (ACUHO).And most erf the larger state universities are in similar circumstances, he adds. Litde and private schools may be experiencing a surplus erf dorm space, but even some of them are having overflows this year.It wasnt supposed to be like this. Virtually all long-term predictions erf enrollments in the 1980s showed the college population dropping off precipitously. Many campus officials shied away from building new dorms, fearful theyd be left vacant after the decline scheduled to start in fall, 1981, and to accelerate after that.,Some schools even closed existing dorms over the last several years at the first hints of enrollment decline.
Tau Beta Phi will tutor
By JUDY CEZEAUX
Special for the Tartan
Tau Beta Pi, the National Engineering Honor Society, will sponsor free tutoring for all engineering classes through the junior level. The tutoring will be offered on a one-to-one basis at the students and tutors convenience.
Tau Beta Pi was established to recognize scholastic achievement in the study of engineering. Members are in the top one eighth of th^ir junior class or top one fifth of their senior class.
The format of the tutoring has been changed this year to provide better service to more students. The one-on-one format will provide more personalized attention and better suit the schedules of both student and tutor. The number of courses tutored has also been expanded from just freshman courses to all engineering courses through the junior level. The Society hopes that this expanded service will allow more students to take advantage of the opportunity.To set up an appointment, or for more information, call Judy Cezeaux at x8618 or 621-2911.
But the decline, despite a decrease in the number of 18-to-24-year-olds in the general population, is on hold. The college population, which peaked at 12.4 million last year, is expected to stay at or near that level throughout the decade, the National Center for Education Statistics new predicts.Moreover, the continually-rising price of off-campus housing around the country has convinced more students to choose dorms over apartments. The result an unanticipated increase in the number erf dorm residents this fall.We keep waiting for things to level off like theyre supposed to, but its not happening, says Marquette spokesman Dave 
Foran.Western Michigan clewed three dorms over the last few years, but has had to reopen two of its Valley II projects to absorb this falls increase in dorm requests.Oklahoma, despite an overall enrollment decline of 400, also has re-opened a dorm it shut down last year, and has made some double rooms in existing dorms into triples.West Liberty State College in West Virginia is stuffing three students in rooms designed for two, and moving people into resident advisors rooms, normally reserved as singles for RAs.Iowa State cunendy has 300 students temporarily living in offices, recreation halls and meeting rooms at the Student Union. At one facility, 19 men have to share two showers.Over 100 ISU students couldnt even get temporary housing.Dorms are more crowded where rates are low. At schools where the rates have gone up, the increases (in occupancy) have been much more modest this year, says Illinois North.Nationally, Id say (dorm) rates are up
about three-to-seven percent, says Annette Smith, current ACUHO director and housing official at West Virginia. Last years housing costs went up 1 l-to-12 percent.I think many schools have finally caught up with skyrocketing energy costs suffered in the seventies, she says. Were hoping to hold our rates steady for at least the next year.Consequently, its definitely a better bargain to live on campus again, North says. And its also much more convenient Thats why your schools are seeing such good occupancy rates.Not all schools have them. Its a very mixed, mixed-up picture this year, Smith summarizes.Things are very quiet in West Virginias dorms, she says, though thats only because we changed our entrance requirements from (admitting) all high school graduates to requiring them to have a C average.Kansas State, which had an overflow last year, has 260 extra dorm spaces this fall. Western Illinois is clewing two dorms because of rising costs and declining numbers of housing applications.Housing officials, fooled more than once by the long-term predictions, are unwilling to say if and when dorm space at most schools will open. It all depends on what happens to the inflation rate, and what the electric and gas companies do, Smith observes. If we have to raise rates, or if enrollments begin to drop, it could all turn around.
Correction
In a past issue, Dr. Charles Kriebels name was accidently spelled Crebol. The Tartan J| apologizes for its mistake.
THE ULTIMATE 
COLLEGE SPEAKER
Boston Acoustics
BostonAcousticsSpeakers
Small, affordable, with  Save 10% with school I.D.
a high-priced sound.
($150.00 a pair)  Limited 5 year warranty
 Ideal for dorms, dens, 
bedrooms
Route 8 Richland Mall 
Gibsonia, Pennsylvania 
412/443-6160 
(From Pittsburgh 961-0254)
 Available at both Listening 
Post Locations
5524 Walnut Street (Shadyside) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
412/681-8433LISTENING POST (Service Hotline 681-8488)
Sound on a Personal Level

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Hill Street alumni return to memories
Security factors examined
Testimony discusses
(The following is testimony by Geoffrey S. Goodfellow before the Subcommittee of Transportation, Aviation, and Materials on the subject of Telecommunications Security and Privacy, 22 September 1983.)The primary nature of a computer hacker can be defined as follows: A person who enjoys learning or knowing the details of computer systems and how to stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users of computers, who prefer to leam or know only the minimum amount necessary in order to get their job done. One who programs computers enthusiastically, for the sheer fun of it, and gets a non professional amount of enjoyment out of using them. A person capable of appreciating the irony and beauty (i.e. hack value) of a program. A person who is good at programming quickly or is an expert on a particular program. (This definition and the proceeding 
ones are correlated, and people who fit them 
congregate).Unfortunately, though, hacking has an unsavory faction to it: A malicious or inquisitive meddler (i.e. l>oacher) who tries to discover information by poking around. For example, a pass
word hacker is one who tries, possibly by deceptive or illegal means, to discover other peoples computer passwords. A network hacker is one who tries to leam about the computer network (possibly because he wants to interfere  one can tell the difference only by context, tone of voice and manner of approach).Hackers of all factions, whether benign or of the unsavory flavor, consider themselves somewhat of an elite, though one to which new members are gladly welcome. Hacking is meritocracy based on ability. There is a certain self-satisfaction in identifying yourself as a hacker (but if you claim to be one 
and are not, youll quickly be labelled 
bogus').The hacker is intensely interested in technology and is a very inquisitive person. Many are social outcasts who dont enjoy the same things as most other kids their age. Hackers of the unsavory flavor are a very curious breed of individual  many can best be described as loners looking for someone to appreciate their talents. They know full well that what theyre doing errs on the dark side (of the force)  to coin a phrase. Unsavory hackers want to get caught so they can be given the appreciation they desire  and the process of getting caught adds an
computer
essence of thrill to their endeavor.I would like to state for the record, that benign hackers, such as I, deplore the unsanctioned entry and subsequent rummaging of mainframe computer systems and networks. These types of activities are tarnishing the profession of hacking and giving it a bad name.In the Real World, computer system organizations are generally run like totalitarian police states. This unfortunate reality fosters resentment in hackers and a desire to challenge the reverence of authority develops. As a result, the way hackers bring themselves to a system managers attention is via the medium they know and relate to best: a terminal and modem and your computer system. In most cases, the hacker wouldnt personally think of or know how to go about calling up the director of a computer system and offering his services to you as a bright young guy for the fear of reprisals or not being taken seriously. Instead, they choose to introduce you to them by meddling with your computer system, cavalierly circumventing security and protection mechanisms, in order to satiate their hunger for knowledge and develop an understanding of how things work.The organization will respond in kind by
hackers
trying to plug the leak of an intrusion into their system by erecting barriers. This type of reaction is precisely the wrong approach to take, because the hacker will notice the beefed-up defenses and see them as a further challenge of his prowess and ingenuity and legitimate users are subjected to greater inconvenience.Instead, what an organization should do is try to befriend hackers which have penetrated their inner sanctums. The perspective that should be taken is one of Is it helpful 
or useful for you to do this? rather than 
Are you authorized to do this?'. You must in effect come down to the hackers level and circulate among them. Show them that you appreciate their talents. If you ask them nonforeboding questions and take a genuine interest in what theyre doing, most of the time youll find theyre more than happy to tell you exacdy what it is theyre looking for or interested in. The hacker wants to leam and you can be their guide/teacher. This is how I was dealt with by tire firms that caught me during my unsavory hacking days in 1973 when I breached security on a large commercial timesharing networking and many of its host computer systems. I was very much inspired by this method of 
continued on page 7
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan StaffxvriterHomecoming weekend here at CMU 
took on added significance with the pres
ence of its alumni contingent from the 
Emmy Award-winning television series Hill Street Blues.The group consisted of five, and they are: 
Steven Bochco, the executive producer and co-creator of Hill Street, his wife, Barbara 
Bosson, who plays Fay Furillo, Mark Frost, 
the executive story editor, Bruce Weitz, who 
portrays the gruff undercover cop Mic 
Belker, and Charles Haid, who plays the 
outspoken Andy Renko.The group started their event-filled weekend with a press conference, which was held in the Alumni Hall of the Fine Arts building at 8:30 Friday morning, October 14. Unlike the common conception of a 
press conference, the mood was more informal as coffee and doughnuts were served and the group of five was divided into two smaller groups. This allowed the members of the local media and representatives from the surrounding Universities to mill about and talk to each celebrity on a more one-toone basis.
Haid and Weitz made up one group and came up with some rather interesting answers. For instance, Weitz drew the conclusion that nostalgic feelings are only as strong as a warm jacket. When asked about what stood out in his mind about the experience of coming back to CMU, Weitz said, I got chills walking across the cut.. .it was cold, and then I put on my jacket and they disappeared. Even with his jacket on, however, Weitz admitted that returning Conjurs up all kinds of nostalgic feelings, some good and some bad. Haid added, Anything like this gives you a yard stick for your life, to remember where you were  instantaneously where you were emotionally, physically, intellectually.A wide range of questions were aired dur
ing the hour and a half. As to the unusually 
high number of people from the same col
lege being cast or working in the same production of the same show, Weitz simply called it University nepotism.In response to further questioning, Haid
plight of todays creative artists, Bosson replied, The creative artist in our society does one of two things. They become a star. . which is just an adjunct that happens to some people who are in the arts, or they languish forever poor and unknown. And there is something so wrong with that. . .What most people dont understand is that the creative artist is a part of them.As for being back at CMU, the general
said, I thought that it would be wonderful for me and for them (the drama students) to spend some time with a group of people who have succeeded in that business and are accessible to them. Bochco added, This school produces a disproportionate number of very successful people relative to the industry as a whole, a statement that should boost the morale of any of the aspiring directors, writers, and actors erf the CMU
CHARLES HAID
they saw in the future after Hill Street, Weitz said Hawaii and Haid said poverty. However, the two were in agreement when asked the more pertinent question 
as to whether they are critical of themselves when viewing an episode by noticing that they blew a line or that their hair was messed up. To this Haid replied, A big concern with our two characters is that our hair is messed up. Weitz added, I agonize over that.On the other side of the room, the discussion was a bit more serious. Barbara Bosson was in the midst of dispelling any notion that she is as flaky as the character she portrays, Fay Furillo. Actually, her responses were, in general, more involved and somewhat philosophical. When asked about the
photos by Mike Pilewski
BRUCE WEITZ
drama department.After the press confefence, the quintet moved out to the cut for a short session with the photographers. As Haid tossed a football with a student, he expressed a desire to start up a touch football game with a couple of nearby coeds. Obviously, they were all beginning to get back that old college spirit as they proceeded to ham it up. In fact, except for the photographers that encircled them, to view them from a distance,they would have appeared like any group of exuberant college students with big plans for a wild weekend ahead. Yet, this group of students will always stay on the honor roll. As Haid said, Were proud to have gone here. And CMU is proud that you did.
revealed the reason behind the demise of his part-time career as a bouncer at the Craig Street Inn in Oakland, a job that he held while attending CMU. It involved carding, in jest, the Notre Dame Alumni football front line. One guy said, Youre kidding, and I said Yeah, I am. And I quit my job at the Craig Street Inn. Haid and Weitz did not come to agreement on all of the questions. When posed the question as to what
BARBARA BOSSON
and unanimous consensus was that they were glad to be here. Mark Frost summed it up when he said that he was having a better time here than when he was a student. Frost further added, Im finding that I have a really warm feeling towards Pittsburgh that I didnt have when I was here (as a student).  As to any ulterior motives behind their return, Haid stated, The main thing is, we went to this school and we got something out of this school. If we can come back after X number of years and put something back into this University, then thats what were doing. Bochco narrowed this aspect of the visit even further. Acknowledging that the entertainment business, the chosen profession of CMUs drama students, is a very difficult and failure-oriented business, he

---------------------------------------------------

pRAw new
PI 22 a'
Hang in there. If you can get through all the hard work while putting up with all the distractions, (Gulf 
v< >u'H be ready for anything. Including graduation. What's more, you'll have a real education.
I. * ,i ft*v,, 4, >r send your name ar.d address to Free Poster Dept C. PO Box 1166, Pitti>urgh PA 15230  Gulf Oil Corporation - 1983 

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 7
Computer break-in problems can be solved
continued from page 5catching and steering unsavory hackers towards more constructive use of their talents.
What can and should be done to help 
abate the unsavory hacking problem?From my own observations and inspection of systems and from what I have been reading in the press, I have come to the conclusion that computer site administrators are not taking reasonable and prudent measures to protect their computer systems from even the most casual methods of circumvention. A rather egregious example of this would be the installation of which the 414s allegedly logged into with username test and password test. Usernames and passwords of this sort are not uncommon and sites which set up logins like this are just asking for a break in  just as someone who would leave a key in the lock on the front door of their house, complete with the WELCOME! mat out for all to see, invites the casual burglar.
The way I view reasonable and prudent measures of protection from the casual penetration is by drawing a paradigm with the way DoD classified material is handled.With respect to the handling and use of classified information, it is the responsibility of the organization to which you belong, in conformance with DoD guidelines, to provide you with rules and regulations in the handling of classified information. It is also the responsibility of your organization to provide you with a safe place (i.e. a vault) to store said information and to provide adequate safeguards (such as alarm systems, 
security personnel and patrols) to prevent unauthorized access.The same methodology should be taken to heart by administrators of computer systems. Its their responsibility to provide reasonable and prudent measures to prevent unauthorized access attempts from gaining access to the system. This means a few very basic things like: Forcing users to choose reasonable passwords  not their spouses name or their dogs name. Setting up proper modem controls on dial-up/remote access ports so that disconnection causes any jobs (or trojan horses left on the port) to be flushed and results in 
resetting the port or not logged-in status. Reporting incorrect password attempts to the system console or log file. Causing line disconnection after a few successively repeated incorrect password attempts. Using encrypted passwords, so it is not possible to compromise an entire systems password list when circumvention of a systems protection mechanisms is attained. This is analogous to the DoD compartmentalization of information  so a breach in one area does not sacrifice security in all areas.The second facet of the paradigm is the users responsibility. I dont go out to lunch and leave my secrets sitting on my desk. I put them in a vault. And I dont go throwing them over the embassy walls. So it is the same for the computer system user. It is the users responsibility to choose reasonable
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
passwords and not leave them written down anywhere, such as on their desk blotter or white board or to pass them out to others.The third matter is a paradigm of a different nature. This has to do with socially acceptable values. Namely, when I was brought up, I was taught about trespassing. If I went to someones house and found the front door is wide open, I dont really know of anyone who would walk right in and look around.They would instead stand at the door, ring the doorbell or knock or call out. This type of responsibility or sense of morals has to be applied to the computer technology field.Research into methods of improving the safeguarding of information flow through technology should be pursued. One such project is the one of which I am the Principle Investigator of at SRI, which has to do with this type of technolgoy. Our involvement has to do with developing and proving technologies that will absolutely assure that I will only have access to information in a computer system database of which my clearance and my need to know entitled me to, while prohibiting me from information I am not cleared or permitted to access. However, one must carefully weigh the value of increased security with the cost in user convenience and flexibility.Explicit federal and state criminal statutes should be enacted to allow a vehicle for vigorous prosecution, should it be warranted or desired, by injured parties. These explicit laws would also hopefully act as a method of deterrence.
Let us not lull ourselves into a false sense of
security.In general unsanctioned computer system penetrations can be performed by individuals who possess three basic aspects of computer knowledge: access, skill and information.Access can be defined as a terminal and modem. Skill can be defined as ingenuity or familiarity with computer systems, especially with the given system type that the penetration is directed towards. Information can be defined as dial-up phone numbers, network address or means of accessing a given computer system  perhaps even physical. Information can also include various methods, most likely in the form of bugs (i.e. shortcomings) or features (i.e. an aspect inherent to the hardware or software design of the system) which will permit the holder to circumvent the operating system security and protection mechanisms, and in effect gain carte blanche access to the computer. Carte b lanche can be defined as allowing the holder to override file security and protection considerations, in that you can read or alter any data and even change the nature of the computer operating system software itself.In the good oV days such skill and information was not widely known. However, with the ever increasing number of computer systems, both personal and mainframe alike, information and skill is spreading to an ever increasing number of individuals and institutions. Unfortunately, not all of the individuals are as scrupulous as they should be. Such instruments as Pirate Bulletin Board' systems are being used to disseminate this information on a ntaionwide,
on-call, as needed basis.What does this mean?Up until now most unsanctioned computer system penetrations have not been the high technological acts of chicanery the media has made them out to be. They were primarily performed by individuals who were as familiar with computer technology as, say, an auto enthusiast is with what goes on under the hood of your car. The auto whiz has the breadth of knowledge necessary to hot wire a motor vehicle, just as your computer literate individual has the breadth necessary to perform a technological hot wire inside a computer system.However, the current low to medium technological approaches to system penetrations are likely to change.
I define the technological levels as follows: high tech is defined as a new method of circumvention. High tech methods are primarily invented by individuals or a group of individuals who have an in depth understanding of the desired technology the caper is directed against. Medium tech can be defined as an individual who has the same basic level of understanding as the high tech guy, but uses the knowledge and perhaps fine tunes or refines it a bit (i.e. the medium tech individual is a knowledgeable user). The low tech is just a user of the knowledge with little or no understanding of what is involved in making the technology perform its desired function.In the not to [sic] distant future withhigher stakes, increased level of knowledgeand other aspects better understood, I believewe will see a trend towards a more higher 
continued on page 25
A REMINDSO O O
Get To Know Northrop
Well be on campus this Fall 
to interview individuals with a background in:
 Engineering  Math
 Computer Science  Physics
Check with the Placement Office for 
specific requirements.
Wed like to get to know you.
NORTHROP
Making advanced technology work.
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H U S Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

AB Lectures presents
Michael Morgenstern
author of
How to Make Love to a Woman
October 27  next Thursday 
8:00 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Come See the Expert
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
No "brainstorm" for director of "Silent Running"
Taxxi looks 
better than 
it sounds
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan StaffmriterTaxxis most recent album, Foreign 
Tongue, is nothing to get excited about. It is true that the album has several good songs, and that the cover is certainly worth studying tor a moment or two, but beyond that, the album fails as a comeback to a fairly commercial success in their previous album, 
States of Emergency.
Taxxi seems to be one of those bands which looks better than it sounds, and because of this, has relied heavily on MTV audience for its record sales. Their single release from States of Emergency, Cocktail Queen, received major play time on MTV and presented a view of Taxxi which definitely sparked interest in the band.
Probably the most attractive feature of Taxxi is that each of its members seems to represent a different lifestyle and a different band style. Keyboardist Colin Payne looks as though he has just finished a stint with Peter Tosh, while drummer Jeffrey Nead seems to have come from a Def Leppardesque group and guitarist/vocalist David Cumming looks like he just failed an audition with Lover boy. Combining the three produces a modey appearance, similar to the idea accomplished several years ago by
Michael is reunited with his estranged wife (Natalie Wood, who died during production), there is little human interest; the acting is forced and wooden, and the direction awkward. It is clear that Trumbull is a gadget freak who is trying unsuccessfully to appear as something more.To be fair, this film had its share of trouscrap the project and collect the insurance. But Lloyds of London succumbed to Trumbulls urging, and financed the completion of the film. Some of Ms. Woods scenes that were not shot at the time of her death had to be written out of the story, and this may account for some of the clumsiness. But, unfortunately, excuses dont make it ables: after Ms. Woods death, MGM tried to good movie.Gallery offers diversity: paint, sculpture, and ceramics
The student exhibit showing at Forbes Gallery this week is a diverse one. Kurt Rath will exhibit paintings and a special installation piece; Colleen Gloeckner will show her fiber work; Dan Kling will display his ceramic sculptures. Their show opens Tuesday, October 18 at 7 p.m. with an opening celebration that will last until 9. The show closes October 23.Raths work has a great deal to do with intuition. I cant just sit down and produce. I have to wait until ideas come, until images that mean something start working themselves out of my head. Rath is not looking for very complete, polished pieces from this show. The paintings are explorations of alternative executions of ideas that are important to him.One of the works which will appear in the show is titled Black and White Composition #17: Der Stand der Dinge. The German phrase means the state of things.  The stark simplicity of black and white, of fields of color, speak of the fact that no matter how you approach things, you end up dealing in total clarity and total ambiguity.Raths installation piece is called American Fear: Parts 1 and 3. He will use sound and image, as well as found objects to construct the piece.Colleen Gloeckner will be showing four fiber sculptures and one painting. Gloeckner feels that her work is undergoing an evolution; she began working in simple two-dimensional schemes and is moving
rapidly into more complex threedimensional pieces. Layering, bright colors and organic shape are characterisdc of her work.
Im trying to stay away from the regular loom grid patterns. The layering gives me unusual textures and a more sculptural potential. One of the pieces which exhibits Gloeckner s newest work is My Family and I. Two large, natural-shaped crescents hang in mid-air, separated, yet still connected by a few taut sinews of material. Their differences are accentuated through a color change and by a difference in weight, yet the two masses sull cling together.
Dan Kling was a graduate student in mathematics at CMU. He now works in ceramics. Each of his pieces is a carefully worked out combination of the ideas most important to Kling when he creates. The contrast between geometric patterns and expressive gestures ... The suspension of meaning within the intangibly ordered ... The form as conveyed by the development and growth of a piece ... These things, along with the use of only hand made tools, make Kling's work unusual and exciting. His forms are fluid and graceful, and always in clay or wood.
The combination of these three artists work will make a fascinating show. Gallery hours are Tuesday, 7 to 9 p.m.; Wednesdav to Fnday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.
Keyboardist Colin Payne, drummer Jeffrey Nead and guitarist/vocalist David Cumming make up Taxxi.
Cheap Trick.As for Foreign Tongue, there are many places where the album falls short of being a worthwhile investment. Except for some interesdng phaser effects in Metro Boulot Dodo, the vocals as a whole sound as though they were recorded in a un can and then mixed in with the background rather than the foreground. I personally have trou
ble reladng to the solos of Payne (or should I say, solos of pain). His technique is one of single, long spaced notes, one after the other, for a short period of time. There seems to be litde musicianship behind them.As mentioned earlier, however, there are some songs which are worth mentioning. First, there is "Runaway, a ballad which has a ver>r Springsteen-like quality in its
sound, vocals and imagery. Metro Boulot Dodo is very bouncy and danceable, as is Six Men in New York. And Careless Talk has somewhat of a hummable tune.For the most part, though, Taxxi presents its own brand of unenthusiastic rock and roll on Foreign Tongue. There is promise in Taxxi, but they have yet to find it. Perhaps with another year erf practice . . .
Christopher Walken is amused by his wifes (Natalie Wood) reactions to a startling new 
invention as his co-workers look on in MGM's Brainstorm, a new film from director of2001.
to play back her experience of the afterlife, the military and espionage heavies take the project away from him and turn it into a technology of warfare and torture. But, like William Hurt in Altered States, he has to experience the ultimate high, in this case, vicarious death. So he breaks into the system, plays himself the tape, and also sabotages what remains of his project.The afterlife imagery, like the similar hokum in Poltergeist, is inspired by the reports of people who have been resuscitated from clinical death. Its reasonably fun to watch, but one wonders how it could have been recorded once the brain stopped emitting electrical signals. The plan by which our hero sabotages the automated manufacturing plant is even more implausible than the break-in of War Games, but at least it allows some welcome slapstick: the robot arm run amok displays more personality than any other character in the movie.Despite attempts to humanize the story, such as weaving in a subplot by which
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Brainstorm was directed by spedal-effects wizard Douglas Trumbull, whose previous credits include 2001, Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind, and Blade Runner. His earlieri rr r>  idirectorial effort was Silent 
Running, which let loose on the world cinemas first adorable androids./
The story is simplicity itself. Two scientists Lillian (Louise Fletcher, who played Big Nurse in One Flew Over the Cuckoos 
Nest) and Michael (Christopher Walken, who played the psychodcally suicidal soldier in The Deer Hunter), develop a technique whereby mental experiences sensadons, thoughts, and emodonscan be recorded and played back to others.
Lillian, a chain smoker, dies of a heart attack, but has enough presence of mind in her last moments to put on the recorder. Just as Michael, now the project leader, is about

---------------------------------------------------

 Electronics Engineers 
e Mechanical Engineers 
e Computer Scientists
Youre about to take that all-impor
tant step, from college into your first ca
reer position. Its a move that must be 
thought out carefully.
The Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory offers room to move around, 
and several stairways your career can 
take. Here youll be working shoulder to 
shoulder with some of the countrys top 
people, seeking solutions to the nations 
greatest challenges. You may begin your
ON CAMPUS Wednesday, October 26th
career here working on a defense prob
lem and later move into one of our many 
energy research programs.
Youll find everything you need for 
your work, including the worlds most 
advanced computers. And, if you decide 
to continue your education, the Laboratory 
offers time off from work and tuition 
reimbursement.
You couldnt find a better place to 
take that first step.
Our major research programs are:
 National defense (Nuclear weapons and 
defensive systems research)  Magnetic 
Fusion Energy  Laser Fusion  Energy 
Research  Biomedical and Environmen
tal Research.
See your placement office for more information, or write to:
Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory 
P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCR 
Livermore, CA 94550
An equal opportunity employer, m/f/h 
U.S. Citizenship required
University of California
III Lawrence Livermore (b National Laboratory
t*\\ *IPPI

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 11
Artists in all respects  local band The Shunts
photo by Susan Richards
THE SHUNTS
One of Pittsburghs most intriguing new 
bands is The Shunts, a group of musicians 
made up almost entirely of CMU art stu
dents. Having played at AB functions and at 
last years Spring Carnival, The Shunts are 
nearing their two-year anniversary and 
claim to be tighter than ever.
The following excerpts came from an 
interview with The Shunts recently con
ducted by Susan Petrie, Tartan Entertainment Editor.
Tartan: My first question is who chiefly 
writes most of the songs, what do you do, 
together?Matt (guitarist): Sometimes'. More so lately. It used to be just me and Evan doing the songs initially.'Evan (guitarist): Yeah, we did write them together.
Tartan: What are your methods of 
writing?Smith (bassist): Well usually jam around for a while and theyll do this riff or something we all like. Then somebody will take it and write words, usually Matt.
Matt* And then therell be parts maybe that I dont have exactly the right words for and someone else will . . . Songs like that, they go through a lot of changes before theyre finally satisfying.
Tartan: Where do you get your ideas for 
lyrics?Matt: Lately Ill just sit down and write without anything in my mind at all, just a stream of consciousness.
Tartan: Do most of your songs have mes
sages to them that are either hidden or overt?Evan: Not messages that you like declare, like something we all stand for. It could be because we might stand for everything in the world or nothing.Matt: A lot of the songs I wrote were about a whole bunch of things. Its more like a person who hears the words can take them the way they want.I dont try to make the songs all about one thing. Its more about lots of things. Like five or six ideas.
Tartan: How can you tell if the song 
works or not? Say you really like something 
you come up with, and you perform it Can 
you tell whether it works just by the 
audience?
Mike (drummer): No.Evan: You have to realize that when we perform, a lot of the words arent going to be heard.
Matt* Most erf the time the people there really dont care anywav.Evan: Yeah, but theres got to be something important. You dont want to just make it really dumb just because no ones going to hear the words.
Tartan: Do you write for yourselves? Do 
you write for the audience?
Matt* Some things I wrote about people out in the audience or having to do with them, and some things are personal about me.
P
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., Pittsburgh 
363-1107
Tartan: Your writing  does it satisfy 
only yourselves or are you more interested in 
satisfying people who are listening to you?
Smith: I dont think we have to appease anyone.
Matt: Some things came from things that people heard other people say, like theres this song called Everything A Girl Could Want and those are the first words that someone heard when she came to school here. She was walking behind these two girls, who were saying, Hes got the looks,hes got the grades, hes got the sports, hes everything a girl could want! and thats where the idea for the song came from.
Evan: In a song called Tylenol we read the words off the box.
Tartan: What happens when you have a 
problem while you're performing?
Matt: Usually when I mess up or someone else does, I just laugh. Theres nothing you can do about it.
Tartan: I have to ask a question here. Do 
you want to be taken seriously?
Evan: Seriously, we want people to respect what were doing.
Matt: A lot of the songs are intended to be humorous.
Evan: Its like when youre writing a song, you put yourself into someone elses shoes,
H writing from their point of view. Sometimes people get mixed up, and think thats what you believe.
Matt: A lot of things I w rote tend to be very sarcastic, but people are taking it real seriously.
Tartan: Do you read your audience as 
well? Can you tell what kind of audience 
you have?
Matt: I hate having to play in front of people who just sit there and stare.
Tartan: How do you like to play at 
CMU?
Matt* Yeah, we have a good time playing here, because people want to have a good time.
Evan: Theyre not just looking at you stupidly, thinking these guys could be really hardcore if theyd just play faster.
Tartan: How would you classify your 
drumming, Mike?Mike: Hack.
Tartan: Why do you say that?Mike: Because it is. . . ever hear it? 
Tartan: Do you judge a good perfor
mance by how much fun you have?
Smith: I think the most fun / ever had was at Forbes Gallery . . .We were playing and the ceiling was so old that dust was coming down and the place was packed. They were showing slides on one wall and we were just standing there.
Tartan: What are your necessary ingre
dients for a fun evening?
Smith: People.
Matt: Yeah, people depend on how much fun everyone else has. Although I try to have a good time no matter what everyone else has.
Evan: Sometimes I just look at the expressions on their faces. After a dance is over, the people that are left dancing are usually fun to play to, because by that time. . .
Matt:. . .all their inhibitions are gone.
continued on page 13
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS, PHYSICISTS
Our recruiter will be visiting your campus on
October 19,1983
Contact the job placement office for 
interview times and appointments.
Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discoveries made 
by R & D engineers, inventors and scientists world-wide as a
PATENT EXAMINER
in Washington, D.C.
The Patent and Trademark Office has unique career opportunities 
offering  Challenge and responsibility  Career growth  Outstanding 
career Federal Government service benefits
For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner 
contact:
\T CoManager, College Relations x* t
Office of Personnel %
Patent and Trademark Office . f
Washington, D.C. 20231 ^ |
Call toll-free 800-368-3064 **
(703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA)/
An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f  U.S. Citiz

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION 
ENGINEERS
TAU BETA PI
The National Engineering 
Honor SocietyANNOUNCES
FREE 
TUTORING
in all courses up to Junior levelFor more information call Judy Cezequx x8618
DATEl October 19 and 20 TIME: _ 10 am to 4 pm
PLACE Baker Hail_______________________________________Deposit $15.00
BECOME PART OF THE FAIRCHILD SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
A Unique Opportunity 
for Simultaneous 
Employment and 
Graduate Study.
You Are Eligible if You 
Have a BiS. Degree 
in Science or 
Engineering.
Write or call Prof. Anthony Ephremides, Director of the Fairchild Scholars Program, Electrical Engineering Department, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742. Phone (301) 454-6199.
Or contact the Fairchild Scholars Program representative when he visits your campus:
DATE: October 28, 1983
TIME: 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
PLACE: Career Services & Placement
POSITIONS ARE AT FULL SALARY 
WITH TWO DAYS A WEEK OFF FOR 
SCHOOL.
U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED.
A Cooperative Program between 
the University of Maryland 
and Fairchild Industries
SAVE 40%
When you haveUSA TODAYdelivered on campus.
There's never been anything like USA TODAY on campus.
Please deliver USA TODAY for weeksUSA TODAY, the nation's first general interest 
newspaper, is now available on your campus 
at a special student rate. You can order deliv
ery to your dorm or a copy reserved for you at 
the campus bookstore Monday through Friday. 
The special student rate is only 15g an issue or 
75? a week! This is a 40'o savings on the regu
lar newsstand rate of 25(i a copy. You'll find 
USA TODAY exciting, easy to read, and a great 
source for information from all fifty states.
Please Print
at 75# per week. $ (or 150 per day) Begin delivery _End delivery10 week minimum order ? Do not deliver during Christmas/Semester break
TelephoneName _________ __________
Campus Address ___________I.:".__
Please detach here and check for correct address. Enclose check or money order for full amount. 
Make check payable to ycur compu? representative.
campus rep:
Doug Bill _
Box 1868 
1060 Morewood Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(campus delivery only)

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 13
Special review of Washington concert
Residents' "mole music" open capital's festival
By MARK J. ISKOWITZ
Special for the Tartan
The following is a concert review of The 
Residents, who performed last weekend in 
the Washington area.
Ed.
Many styles of modem music existrock, jazz, new wave, street music, and. . .well, then there is mole music. The individuals behind this peculiar invention are The Residents. Their identities are as much a mystery as is their music. Live performances have been very rare during the quartets long career, which began in the late 60s. However, last Friday a few thousand members of The Residents large international cult following assembled in the ornate indoor courtyard of the Pension Building in our nations capital.
It was the first time The Residents had appeared on the east coast since 1976, when they masqueraded as mummies on stage. Their names and personal histories are known only to an intimate circle of friends at Ralph, their record label in San Francisco. The four never consent to interviews, photo sessions, or publicity of any sort. Nevertheless, their extensive 83 European summer tour was very successful, considering it was the first time on the continent.
The Residents Mole Show arrived in Washington to open the citys New Music/ Arts Festival 83. The show is plotted around Mark of the Mole and The Tunes of 
Two Cities, the first two recordings in the incomplete Mole Trilogy begun in 1981. Basically, the show tries to illustrate the struggle of a race of underground laborers (Moles) industrious with the forces of nature against the slave-driving yet amiable Chubs.
This is done through a potpouri of audiovisual effects involving The Residents live soundtrack, their dancers characterizations, and a unique slide presentation. The strange sounds The Residents produce can hardly be described in words. Their complex series of electronic beeps and effects are incomparable to even the most avant-garde
of musicians. The voices consist of gutteral grunts, shrieks, and whispers with often incomprehensible lyrics. Dancers and mimes appear during instrumental sections as either Moles or Chubs. Carrying poles with cardboard faces specifying their identities, these darkly dressed individuals rely exclusively on body language to tell the story. Black and white drawings projected on two large screens are also used to help clarify the action of the story. However, for those unfamiliar with the tale, The Mole 
Show fails to convey its message clearly.Apparendy, The Residents are aware of their ambiguities, and elicit the help of their new manager to comically explain what the audience has just witnessed on stage. In the second half of the show, the crowd appreciates The Residents valiant efforts to curb his interruptions by immobilizing him in a wheelchair.Enigmatic as it may be, The Mole Show succeeded in Washington primarily because of the incredible mystique of The Residents themselves. Simply knowing that the four obscured costumed figures behind the scrim curtain were indeed The Residents made the entire evening a treat. They purposely distanced themselves from their adoring fans and relied on their synthesizers, emulators, and occasional guitars to reach the audience.Knowing this the crowd still hoped the anonymous quartet would remove their masks. Towards the end of the show, one of The Residents walked around the screen to address the audience for a second time. Aside from the Mole story, many consider this the highlight of the evening. He boldly announced, I dont need this, and quickly scraped off his mask. The audience gasped, as the tan screen dropped to the floor, and he covered his exposed face with one hand. No, this was not to be the grand unveiling of The Residents.
To assuage their disappointed fans, the group introduced one of their most popular numbers, a remake of the Rolling Stones classic, Satisfaction. This particularly raw version drove the audience into a frenzy. In
COSTUMES EXTD02DINA1DE
AUTHENTIC PB4REL FROM 1850-1960
pRAwneEqual Oorqteli
ANONYMOUS
284 MOREWOOD BETWEEN CENTRE & BAUM
-FRI 11-6 SAT *12-6 SUN HALLOWEEN EVE ONLY* 681-9387
full eyeball attire on their heads, The Residents launched into their American debut performance of another classic tune, The Star Spangled Banner. With flags waving onstage and the anthem nearing its end, The Residents Mole Show had reached its peak.Perhaps it was the incredible mystique of
this odd quartet rather than the music which drew the fans to Washington. More enjoyment came from the portions of the show in which The Residents broke down their barriers with the audience. On that one night The Residents personality finally seemed to be less of an enigma than their mole music.
Pittsburgh Opera's opener 
good start for director
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
As the new latest general director for the The Pittsburgh Opera, Tito Capobianco has managed to better one of the best show companies in this city. His debut effort, presented last weekend, veritably sparkled with vitality and talent. Puccinis La 
Boheme, a moving opera in itself, served as an excellent choice for the new director to begin his first season, and it suited its cast well additionally.
The brightest spot in the entire production was the male lead, Vasile Moldoveanu, a Rumanian native well-known throughout famous opera houses in Europe, who portrayed the desititute writer Rodolfo. Moldoveanus stage presence was overwhelmingly compelling and charmed the audience into mesmerization. His tenor voice glided through the shifts in his characters personality  from playful joshing with his comrades to bittersweet, agonizing farewells with his lover.
Moldoveanus counterpart, Mimi, was adequately played by soprano Patricia Craig, who had performed in Pittsburgh Opera productions of Susahanna, The Bar
tered Bride, and La Rodine. Craig flirted with the rather meek and fragile Mimi with a delightful touch of sensuality  a definite complement to the enticing Moldoveanu.Remembered for his role as Valentin in last springs performance of Faust, Pittsburgher Charles Long managed to bring more in focus the compassionate character of Marcello, Rodolfos starving roommate. The weakness of Marcello as a stimulating character in the story could be quite appar
ent, but Longs mastery of deliverance helped to make Marcellos real value to the plight of the young b9hemians noteworthy.Leigh Munro, who portrayed the seductive Musetta, Marcellos ex-lover, was quite entertaining with her stage antics as well as her beautifully-sculptured soprano voice. Chuckles from the audience were frequent during Musettas ploys to reunite herself with the stubborn Marcello.
La Boheme is Giacomo Puccinis tenderest work. Preceded by two complete failures, the opera won back Puccinis reputation as a tremendous artist and has inspired composers since its first performance in 1896 in Turin.Capobiancos next presentation at the Pittsburgh Opera will be Mozarts The 
Magic Flute on November 17 and 19 at 8 p.m. For more information on tickets, call 281-0912.
The Shunts 
dance away
continued from page 11
Tartan: O.K. Lets move cm to your 
music. If you had to describe your music, 
how would you do that?
Mike: Its fast.
Matt: You can dance to it  all of it.
Smith: Its like a bunch of styles.Matt* Weve been described as a garage band. . .1 guess thats our accepted genre.
The Shunts will have an exhibition of 
Shunt Art in the Ellis Gallery beginning 
today through Friday. The gallery is located 
on the third floor of the Fine Arts Building.
SERVE IN APPALACHIA
 -.itLjidi.-MMLk. ig
December 26, 1983 - January I, 1984 
January 2-8, 1984
NEEDED: Catholic men .to work with the Glenmary Home Missioners. 
a society of Catholic priests and Brothers, serving the poor of Appalachia 
| Please send information about your winter volunteer programs 
 Please send information about Glenmary s work with the rural pec 
of Appalachia and the South.
Reverend Jerry DomGlenmary Home Missioners RoomBox 46404Cincinnati, Ohio 45246
Name____________________________
64
Age.
AddressCity.State.

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Organizations
The Senate Rules Committee 
is conducting its annual
Organizational Survey
All funded and non-funded organizations must complete the 
form and return it to the Rules Committee Mailbox (Skibo Info 
Desk) by
Tuesday, October 25, 1983 
5:00 pm
Failure to do so jeopardizes your status as a recognized organ
ization and may result in freezing of funds (if youre funded).
Forms are available at the 
Skibo Information Desk
Funded by ActkAties Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Defense tough inside 30
Tartans slump in homecoming victory
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Staffwriter
At approximately 12:30 Saturday after
noon, the Army and Air Force ROTC 
started off Saturdays Homecoming pro
ceedings. CMU was jumping with enthusi
asm, as alumni returned to cheer on the 
school and the football team. The CMU 
contingent from Hill Street Blues spoke 
before the game. It may have been the largest 
crowd ever at Tech Field.
The excitement stopped there. Except for 
the float contest at halftime (Theta Xi was 
the winner followed by Alpha Tau Omega 
and Beta Theta Pi), the next few hours were 
spent worrying about football and the game 
versus Washington and Jefferson. 7-0 after 
one quarter. 7-0 at halftime. 7-0 after three 
quarters. CMU had its worst performance of 
its conference season on offense. Except for 
eight plays, the Tartans looked somewhat 
lifeless, perhaps it was the let down everyone 
was hoping wouldnt happen. Perhaps it 
was the fact that the Tartans were dropped 
from their number one ranking, even 
though head coach Chuck Klausing said 
that was not the reason. I think the players 
realize how unimportant that is.
Eight plays can make a game, however. 
The Tartans gained their sixth consecudve 
victory and fourth shutout of the season 
with a 20-0 victory over the Presidents. The 
first of the eight plays was a second down 
.touchdown pass from Dave Zito to Dave 
Richards that covered 57 yards.
The other seven were sparkling defensive 
efforts in stopping W&J inside the 30 yard 
line. Over and over again, the Presidents 
moved down the field against the CMU 
defense. Led by the passing of quarterback 
Mike John, W&J gained 275 total yards. In 
the first quarter, W&J had first-and-ten on
the CMU 21 yard line. They gained one yard 
on three plays and missed a 37 yard field 
goal attempt by Kevin Surouchak. Key plays 
were executed by player-of-the-game Mike 
Paterchak and Scott Bachik. On their next 
drive, W&J got to the CMU 16, where Den
nis Strosko fumbled and Mike Albaugh rec
overed on the 13. On their next drive, the 
Presidents got to the CMU ten, where on 
fourth-and-three John threw an incomplete 
pass. The half ended.
However, the W&J wave didnt stop. 
CMU received the kickoff, and on the 
second play from scrimmage, Joe Mollica 
threw an interception. W&J drove to the 
CMU 12 on first-and-ten. Halfback Tom 
Lapcevic ran seven yards to the 5. Lapcevic 
ran again and gained one. And again for one 
yard, stopped by Joe Nardone and Mike 
ODonnell. Lapcevic ran one more time, on 
fourth-and-one from the three yard line. He 
was stopped for no gain and the Tartans 
took over.
On their next drive, W&J got to the CMU 
29. The key tackle was made by Mike Holodnik on first-and-ten when he stopped Lap
cevic for a two yard loss. On the Presidents 
next possession, they got to the CMU 18 
before a holding penalty and a sack by Lee 
Andre and Holodnik pushed the Presidents 
back to the 29. The third quarter ended, and 
maybe the between-quarter hand raising 
ceremony rejuvenated the Tartans. They 
scored 13 fourth quarter points on two Joe 
Vasalani runs of one and 19 
the game. When the kickline did 14 kicks 
with ten minutes remaining, the game was 
still very much in doubt.
W&J is not a major power. Saturdays loss 
moved the Presidents record to 1-4-1. They 
are seventh in the conference in offensive 
yardage. They were fourth in team defense.
Yet they held fullback Jim Morrison to 53 
yards on 12 carries. Morrison was second in 
the conference in rushing before the game.
Defense Coach Don Poluszek said, We 
needed this today. If we played against 
Bethany like this next week, wed get our 
butts kicked.
Offensive Coordinator Gerry Mancini 
said, We played badly and we won 20-0. 
Referring to the sudden fourth quarter rush
ing success, he said, We started to block, 
thats all.
Coach Klausing was unhappy with tiie
performance. We made major errors. Tur
novers will kill you. The Tartans also were 
penalized seven times to W&Js three.
Tartan Tattlers The 6-0 Tartans face 
the 3-2 Bethany Bisons next Saturday at 
Bethany starting at 2 p.m... .injured players 
include Gerard Sansosti (sprained knee), 
Lee Andre (infected elbow, strained thumb 
ligaments), Jim Morrison (pulled hip mus
cle), and Mike Holodnik (strained shoulder) 
. . . Sansosti missed yesterdays game, and 
was replaced by T.D. Smith . . .Andres 
shoulder improves every week .
photo by John Rogers
Joe Vasaiini runs toward his 75 yard total.
Modest Paterchak named Skoal player of week
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartans fourth shutout of the season 
featured some very strong linebacking play. 
For this reason, inside right linebacker Mike 
Paterchak was chosen as Skoal player of the 
game by the WRCT sports crew. This was 
the second time this season a linebacker has
received the honor. Paterchaks counterpart, 
Mike ODonnell, garnered the award in the 
game versus Grove City four weeks ago.
Modesty is a strong characteristic of many 
of Chuck Klausings Tartans, and Mike 
Paterchak is no exception. He had almost 
nothing to say about his own performance, 
but he did evaluate the game. They
Jim Morrison was held to 53 yards versus W&J.
pnvnv/ uj JV/llll IVUpi 
team weve played. They ran lots of misdi
rection plays and off-tackles, and after 
awhile they became easy to read. Even so, 
they were still able to move the ball downfield against us, and they were in the game 
for a long time.
In the 5-2 (five defensive lineman and two 
linebackers) alignment that defensive coor
dinator Don Poluszek currendy utilizes, the 
two linebacker slots are vitally important. 
The two men playing these positions have 
to cover a great deal of ground. Paterchak 
explains: My job is to read the guards 
because what the guards do in a situation 
usually dictates the play. I have to react and 
pickup whoever is coming out of the backfield, usually the running backs. Lineback
ing means important responsibilities 
against both the pass and the run, but the 6' 
205 pound sophomore admits, I love play
ing against the rush, but my pass defense 
isnt my strong point. Fortunately, the com
ing opponents are rushing-oriented, unlike 
W & J, who threw a lot today.
In high school, Paterchak was known for 
his rushing defense. A native of Whitney, 
PA, he attended Greater Latrobe High 
School. Paterchak played defensive tackle in 
his freshman year, and hen moved to his 
current position, linebacker, the following 
season. As a junior, he was named first allFoothills Conference and most valuable def
ensive back.
The linebacker couldnt have let up too 
much, because he stepped right in last year 
as a freshman and led the Tartans in tackles 
with 54. Paterchak also added 23 assists and 
a sack to his statistics. In this outstanding 
rookie campaign, Paterchak compiled these 
numbers while playing behind the second
team all-Presidents Athletic Conference 
(PAC) standouts Mike ODonnell and Lee 
Ferketic. It was an outstanding season for 
Paterchak.
Unfortunately, outstanding is an inade
quate description of the Tartans defensive 
performance Saturday against Washington 
& Jefferson. W&J couldnt score against the 
Bandits, but they sustained several long 
drives, including seven which were termi
nated inside the Tartan 30 yard line. If not 
for some big plays on the fourth down, the 
outcome of the game may have been quite a 
bit different. Paterchak elaborates: We were 
dry. We made lots of mental mistakes. The 
only thing that I can think of to explain the 
letdown was our being moved down from 1 
to 2. We thought about it all week in prac
tice, and it kinda got us dowTi.
They spread out our defense. Our 
defense isnt designed to cover the flanks, but 
they just kept running things to the outside. 
We had to make adjustments in the second 
half. We practiced all week what we 
expected to see from W&J, but at times it 
was hard to tell we did.
Next week Camegie-Mellon travels to 
West Virginia to take on the Bisons of 
Bethany College. Although Bethany has 
won only two games on the conference level, 
a tough game can be expected. We ll be 
coming off our hardest-hitting game 
[Washington & Jefferson], Paterchak 
notes. It was really physical and the rest of 
the games should be physical, too, especially 
Bethany. Our defense will be up for 
Bethany. Itll be up to our offense, and 
theyll be facing the #1 defense in the confer
ence. I hope we have a big game, because we 
got Case [Western Reserve, the only other 
undefeated team in th PAC] coming up."

---------------------------------------------------

A career with HARRIS/GSSD means professional 
growth within one of the most advanced environments 
in the industry. On a personal level, HARRIS/GSSD is 
proud to offer professionals a positive, active, and 
supportive environment where individual potential is 
fully realized in a team approach.
iTi HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
AT HARRIS/GSSD
SUCCESS 
SPELLED
01/
*
AT OUR ADVANCED 
TECHNOLOGY CENTER 
IN SYOSSET, LONG ISLAND, HARRIS/GSSD TOUCHES 
THE PULSE OF THE SYSTEMS SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY WORLDWIDE
WELL BE ON CAMPUS
IS
If you are unable to meet with us, we invite graduating 
professionals in the above disciplines to forward resumes to:
HARRIS Corporation
Government Support Systems Division 
College Relations Office 
6801 Jericho Turnpike 
Syosset, New York 11791 
516-364-0400
October 25
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATING 
PROFESSIONALS IN THE 
FOLLOWING BS/MS DISCIPLINES
Electrical Engineering 
Electrical Technology

---------------------------------------------------

dght-ends. Before is was all over, the Siallions had to trim down to fifty players, leav
ing room for just two additional dght-ends. 
Drakulic was competing for one of two spots 
among ten compeu tors for thema mere 
20% shot.
It was a long and grueling road. It was in 
bed by 11:00 p.m. and up by 6:00 a.m. Dra
kulic went through over seven hours of prac
tice every day during the two daily sessions. 
Every minute of practice was video-taped. 
When the candidates were not on the prac
tice fields, they were at meetings watching
films. Drakulic exclaimed, Every second 
was watched. Minor technical defects on the 
practice field became major problems in the 
film room.
A rather competitive atmosphere. 
Granted, Drakulic caught 35 passes for 662 
yards in his three years with the Tartans, an 
incredible 18.9 yards per reception. How
ever, that was against Division III schools. 
Now, Drakulic was competing against Div
ision I alumni, some with NFL experience.
In fact, Coach Chuck Klausing does not 
believe that any Division III player has the 
speed or size to make it in the pros. He said, 
Im very conservative on that. I dont think 
a CMU student has enough time to make it 
to the pros. You need to spend 10-12 hours a 
day preparing mentally and physically for 
football. Klausing said of Drakulic, In 
order to graduate from CMU, he had to 
work hard academically.
Yet Drakulic almost made it. When it came 
time for the final cut there were 55 players 
left vying for the 50 slots, three tight-ends 
going for the two open positions. Drakulic 
was there. So were Darryl Mason of the Uni
versity of Arkansas and Steve Stephens of 
Oklahoma State. Both have played in the 
NFL, Mason with the Atlanta Falcons and 
Stephens with the Baltimore Colts. When it 
came time to make the final cut, Drakulic 
had to go.
Said Stallion Director of Public 
Relations Hal Hayes, Gary proved himself 
every' day. He just kept fighting, or he 
wouldnt have made it as far as he did. He 
just got caught up in the cross-fire of the 
numbers game.
The fact that Drakulic got cut might tend 
to prove Klausings theory that Division III 
players are physically unsuited for pro foot
ball. Klausing says of Drakulic, Theres 
always an outside shot for a player on our 
level, but I doubted it (that Drakulic would 
make it) because his speed and size just wer
ent that gifted. Gary likes to play football, 
and his attitude and perserverence made 
him a good prospect. But theres no one on 
out team gifted physically for pro football.
Klausings reputation as a coach has 
become well known. Athletes come from all 
over the area to play under his leadership. 
However, Klausing notes, I cant teach size. 
I can only teach blocking and tackling.
Hayes still disagrees with Klausing. Its 
heart, desire, and intelligence the pros look 
for first in a player. Attitude and desire are 
partners with talent. Its a pity you cant 
measure somebodys heart.
Drakulic is another believer that a Div
ision III player has a good shot to play
iy RIC MEDROWTartxm Sports Editor
For the first time in the history of 
Carnegie-Mellon University, a Tartan 
alumnus made it in professional football 
almost. This past winter 62, 230-pound 
tight-end Gary Drakulic was signed and 
tried out by the USFLs Birmingham Stal
lions. Drakulic was cut in the last round of 
cuts.
500-800 players originally showed up in 
Birmingham to compete against Drakulic. 
Soon only 280 were left, ten of them being
As a Tartan, Gary Drakulic averaged 18.9 
yards a reception.
professional football. He exclaims, My 
belief is that anyone with the right physical 
tools, attitude, desire  and thats desire 
with a capital D  and luck can make it.
In fact, coming from a school like CMU 
might help some players. Their selfmotivation is higher. Division III players 
tend to pick-up new fundamentals more 
rapidly.
Drakulic, as close as it came, did not quite 
make it. There are those, including Hayes, 
who think Drakulic should take another 
shot at the pros. However, Drakulic feels he 
is too old at age 24. Still, Hayes said, He has 
been exposed to it, and he has a shot. If I 
were him, I Would forget the calendar. Look 
how long George Blanda ignored it. 
Drakulic knows he has a shot in Bir
mingham again. He also knows that he has 
the job that he went to CMU to get. Drakulic 
has landed a job as an Industrial Sales Trai
nee with Mine Safety Appliances.
Drakulic said, Im just not willing to put 
in the time and effort to chance not making 
the team for just another tryout. Drakulic 
explains, I know where I want to be five 
years from now (in industry), and in order to 
obtain both short and long range goals, its 
best that I take the safest route.
Klausing agrees with DrakulicT hope my 
players goals do not lie in pro football. 
There are far safer careersnot just injurywise. Too many players go to other colleges 
just to play football, and they never make it 
in the pros.
So, Drakulic can sit back, comfortable 
with the fact that he has had his chance and 
also knowing that he is doing what he wants 
to do.Drakulic is currently a success in industrial sales.
Women's Health Services
Are you suffering from
MIDTERM STRESS?
Come to a free deli dinner and 
discussion on
"Stress: A Fatal Status Symbol
with Dr. Benzion Twerski 
Sunday, October 23, 5:30 pm 
315 S. Bellefield Ave. 3rd Floor 
RSVP 621-8875
Sponsored by Bnai Brith Hillel, a beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation.
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave 
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
'ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name
City __________________State _________Zi
College (if student) ______________________
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St.. Pittsburgh. PA 15222
October 18, 1983The TartanPage 17
CMU alumnus gets USFL tryout
CMU's Drakulic beats out 748of 750

---------------------------------------------------

Fall Student Senate Elections
November 15 & 16, 1983
Openings in all colleges except AMS.
To be considered eligible to hold a Senate seat, you must meet the following qualifications:
1. Be an Activities-Fee paying student of CMU.2. Be a member of the college in which you are petitioning.3. File a petition with at lest 25 signatures of Activities-Fee paying CMU students from your constituency.Students may sign only one petition. Duplicate signatures will be invalid on all petitions on which they appearfor a given college.4. Submit this petition by 5 p.m. to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
CANDID ATES NAME________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS__________________________________________________________________ ,___
PHONE NUMBER___________________________.
PETITION FOR STUDENT SENATE
We, the undersigned, as members of this candidates constituency, do nominate the above
candidate for a post on the Student Senate as a representative for __________________
(college).
Signature Name (PRINTED) Address ; Phone #
1.
.  - -   ' V
2.- ' c. ' !3.-
4.
5.
6.- - %.
7. ->
8.
9.
10.
H.
12.
13.T
14. '
15.
16.
n.
18.
19.'
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.. _ --.:----------
32.F
33.
34.
35.
You may get more than the required 25 signatures, as some may be invalidated. The candidate must be a full-time member of the constituency. 
Return to the Information Desk by 5 p.m., November 1, 1983.
Funded by Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 19
Tartans slip against defending champions
S olnLov ,uSov Nrr - IRWIN WINKLER PRODUCTION of A PHILIP KAUFMAN FILM "THE RIGHT STUFF '
,hpyiEI rypgd IGNCC qkNN Es hpyyFI ipgGE hEgyFdIEg scon .pHiFg sEggFI mHpFs
SAM SHEPARD FRED WARD KIM STANLEY BARBARA HERSHEY VERONICA CARTWRIGHT PAMELA REED 
Music Dy BILL CONTI Director of Photography CALEB DESCHANEL Based on the Book by TOM WOLFE 
^oaucea Dy IPWIN WINKLER and ROBERT CHARTOFF written for the Screen and Directed by PHILIP KAUFMAN
PG W*m GUIMNCE SUGGESTED - ?Qoot.v W*mG U vA*-- - ' ^AIAOO COMPANY RiLEASf
w*' o oLiCy5 S maaa l,ff rd brr e w t h
OPENS AT A SELECT THEATRE NEAR VOI OCTOBER 21st
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tarton Staffwriter
It was a tough one to lose.
Thats the way forward Ted Anderer des
cribed CMUs 1-0 loss to Bethany on Friday. 
Bethany is the perennial PAC champion, 
and the Bisons almost always advance to 
post-season tournament play.
This year was going to be different. The 
Tartans were hoping to unseat Bethany or 
at least beat them in the regular season mat
chup between the two.
However, the team was unsuccessful at 
the latter, and the chances for the former 
dont look good either as CMU dropped to 
2-2 in the conference.
The Tartans got off to a sluggish start 
against Bethany, and keeper Sam Montague 
was tested throughout the first half but kept 
Bethany off the board. Toward the end of 
the half, things picked up offensively for 
CMU, but the game was scoreless at 
intermission.
The Tartans had some chances early in 
f the second half but failed to score, and the 
game was played evenly the rest of the way 
with one exception.
Midway through the second half, Sandy
Mick of Bethany slipped behind everyone 
and found himself with the ball in front of 
him and a wide open net staring him in the 
face. He capitalized on the open net, and the 
goal was all they needed to take the decision 
1-0.
Most of the CMU squad seemed to agree 
that it was a game they shouldnt have lost. 
We didnt play badly enough to lose, was 
the way forward Doug Anderson felt about 
the game.
Coach Gaudioso noted that they may 
have been a little better physically, but we 
were really up for this game. We always get 
up for Bethany and all the big games.
One the brighter side, CMU dominated 
Washington and Jefferson Tuesday in a 4-0 
game. John McNamara started the scoring 
in that game, and Ted Anderer added two 
more first half goals to make it 3-0 at inter
mission. Neal Frink rifled one in in the 
second half to make the final score 4-0. Des
pite losing two of their last three, the team is 
sull 6-3 overall and has outscored the oppo
sition by a 26-8 margin. This week the team 
plays under the lights at Pitt on Wednesday 
night and then at home Saturday afternoon 
versus Case Western.
photo by John Rogers
All-conference midfielder Charlie Lockhead heads the ball against the defending champion 
Bethany Bisons.
RIGHT STUFF
b\it thefuture began.
A MOVIE WITH ALL THE RIGHT STUFF...
Tom Wolfes book now comes to the 
screen in epic, visually spectacular form]'
-SEWS WEEK

---------------------------------------------------

k
Page 20The TartanOctober 18, 1983
Klausing doesn 't care about fa/[NCAA inexplicably drops Tartans to #2
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports Editor
Despite a 35-0 defeat of previously unde
feated Allegheny, the Tartans fell from a tie 
for the number one position to second in the 
NCAA national ranking of Division III.
The criteria for ranking schools are as 
follows:
1. Eligibility of student athletes for 
NCAA post-season competition.
2. Won-Loss record.
3. Strength of schedule.
CMU wins on all three counts. Every Tartan 
is academically eligible for post season play. 
Both Coach Chuck Klausing and the unive 
sity are very strict on academics. The Tar
tans are also undefeated. Nobody can argue 
with that won-loss record.
The sole remaining criteria is strength of 
schedule. The Tartans schedule was tough 
enough to get them to number one last 
week. So, the implication is that the Allegh
eny Gators are not strong enough oppo
nents. The Gators had been undefeated and 
had received votes from the NCAA toward 
making the top 15 list. Augustanas oppo
nent was Carthage, also previously unde
feated, and received votes before. The 
difference that sent CMU to number two
remains unclear.
Yet, something had to have happened 
from last week when Augustana received 
two first place votes, CMU one, and Hofstra 
one to this week when Augustana garnered 
all four first place votes. The reasoning of 
the men voting was ambiguous.
The NCAA Assistant Director of Cham
pionships, Tucker DiEduardo said, It was 
the sense of the committee that the strength 
of the teams concerned and that of their 
opposition indicated that Augustana is 
number one.
However, Allegheny was a strong oppo
nent. But, according to DiEduaido, Any 
team with an undefeated record would 
argue the same.
The decision about just which team gets 
ranked among the top 15 is made by a com
mittee of four men: William McHenry of 
Washington and Lee University, Rocco 
Carzo erf Tufts University, Thomas Mont of 
Depauw University, and Forrest Perkins of 
Wisconsin-White Water. According to 
Mont, Augustana has lost only once in the 
past two seasons, losing only to the defend
ing Division III champions. Therefore, 
they are kind of sail king until they are 
dethroned.
So, for whatever reason, CMU is now 
second in the nation, and the only way for 
the Tartans to regain number one is to 
remain undefeated and be more impressive 
than Carthage, said McHenry.
Just what CMU can do to be more 
impressive is uncertain. However, beating 
team; like the Gators by 35-0 is not what the 
NCAA is looking for. McHenry stated that, 
We are not in favor of teams running up 
scores.
The reaction to the unexplicable drop is 
mixed. The Tartans beat Washington and 
Jefferson on Saturday by an unexpectedly 
close score of 20-0. Whether or not the poll 
had had any effect on the game is impossible 
to tell. However, CMU Sports Information 
Director Bruce Gerson said, I was surprised 
(by the poll), and everyone Ive talked to has 
been surprised. But, with those polls you 
dont know whats going on.
Coach Chuck Klausings reaction was 
somewhat different. Klausing exclaimed, I 
dont know what effect it (the poll) will have 
if any. I hope it will be an incentive. 
However, all seem to agree that it doesnt 
matter who is ranked number one this early 
in the season. As long as the Tartans get 
ranked in the top eight, they will have
MRRISis holding an
QHN HOUSE
For exceptional graduates with bachelors or advanced degrees in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering and Computer Science
Monday, October 24th, 7:00 p.m.  9:30 p.m. 
At the Highlander Room
We invite you to meet some of our key management people. They look forward to an informal evening of informative interchange thats particularly meaningful to you. Theyll zero in on the direction Harris Corporation is taking today and the avenues of opportunity and growth that direction is offering this years graduates in our Fortune 200 company.
Plan to join us for some enlightening conversation and refreshments.
This Is Harris
ixcsptionai People Paving The Way AT The Information Age
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Tuesday, October 25th
Harris Corporation is at the leading edge of an exciting new era. Over the past 20 years we have developed an extensive line of information processing and communication products which generate worldwide annual sales of more than $1.3 billion. Were entering a period of outstanding growth opportunity. Join our people who thrive on challenge as we pave the way to the Information Age.
Make arrangements now at the Placement Office
If you are unable to meet with us, send your resume to Harris Corporation, College Relations, 1025 W NASA Blvd., Melbourne. FL 32901 An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H/V
JJ) HARRIS
earned a spot in the three round playoff after 
the regular season.
As Klausing said, I dont care about the 
poll as long as we get ranked eight or 
above.
NCAA Division III
National Rankings
#CollegeW-LPTs
1.Augustana(4-0)60
2.Camegie-Mellon(5-0)56
3.Hofstra(5-0)51
4.Wartburg(5-0)47
5.Salisbury St.(5-0)41
6.Mt. Union(5-0)39
7.St. Johns(5-0)34
8.Wisconsin-Lacrosse(5-1)31
9.Case Reserve(5-0)30
10.Union(4-0)26
11.Millsaps(4-0)22
12.Lycoming(4-0-1)15
13.Wisconsin River Falls(4-1)9
14.St. Lawrence(3-1)6
Wittenberg(4-1)6
Hackers winIM x-country
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffwriter
If youre into cross-country, team volley
ball, touch football, tennis or racquetbal1, *
have I got news for you. If not, then you 
should probably read about the Homeooning game. Anyway, now that the uninter
ested are out of the way, lets get down to 
some hardcore Intramural information.
The cross-country run was held last Wed
nesday, and the victorious 1.9-miler was 
Robert Guzikowski, with a time of 10:49. 
Guzikowski ran for the Civil Engineering 
team, which finished second overall to the 
Computer Science Robotics Institute team. 
CSRI placed the next four runners after 1-' 
Guzikowski. They were Peter Highman, 
11:02; John Pane, 11:14; Dave Pane, 11:37; 
and Kevin Clark, 11:49. The top woman 
finisher was Laurie Wrotfiington, with a 
time of 16:25.
Playoff schedules are up for touch foot
ball and tennis. They can be picked up at the 
IM bulletin board. The board also contains 
a practice sign-up sheet for team volleyball. 
Volleyball will be holding a mandatory 
rules clinic at Thistle Hall today at 4:30. 
Finally, the board also has the Racquetball 
season schedules.
The intramural board will be holding its 
next meeting this Thursday in the gym, 
Room 104, at 12:30.
A CONCISE 
REPLY TO 
CHRISTIANITY 
BY GARY MILLER
} p.M.
OCTObCR 1ft 121 D/wid tresaCha HaII Unv of PfTTSbuRQk

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 21
arriers continue to win despite lack of drive
;y DAVE LAFYATIS
BTtan staffwritrrIn cross-country, intensity is a key facet, 
though a team may try to run to the best of 
abilities, if it lacks a strong inner drive the 
earn will never reach its full potential. Sat
urday afternoon, CMUs harriers travelled
o West Virginia to run in the Clairmont 
University Invitational. The Tartans placed 
disappointing 2nd in the 15 team field, jeing edged out by Frostburg State, a team that CMU has easily defeated earlier in the season.So what happened at the Fairmont Invitaional? We lacked intensity, admitted 3oach Gary Meckley. You could see it durng the race. The course was hilly and ough, and the guys just didnt run it hard nough. I dont really understand quite ,vhat it is. Right now, however, we just ren t running to our capabilities. Leading the CMU pack was John WesIsels, who ended up placing 2nd on the 5.1 mile course with a time of 26:03. Mike Short followed him in 4th place. One additional ctor that hurt the Tartans charge was that
Thom Bell was slowed considerably with 
intestinal flu. Rounding out the A-Team 
was Kevin Brewer, John McGowan, Chris 
Shafer and Bob Dusch.
A bright spot for CMU was supplied by 
the B-Team, which won their portion of the 
competition. Mark Sulechi won the B race, 
leading the pack of 3 Tartan runners that 
took first second and third place.
One thing that we definitely dont lack is 
talent, remarked All-American Wessels. 
We have the talent to be a real force in the 
Division III Nationals. Cross Country is a 
team sport, however. During the race, each 
runner must be up there, running his hard
est. With the pressure of schoolwork and 
mid-terms coming up, it is very hard to 
concentrate on cross-country right now. We 
need to start coming together soon, 
though.
Meckley summed it up, Our runners are 
worrying more about the runner in back of 
them instead of the one in front of them. We 
need to always look for the opportunity to 
move up in the race.
1979
1980
The Streak-53
1981
Thiel 
Hiram 
West Liberty 
Robert Morris - shutout 
Duquesne - shutout 
W&J - shutout 
Bethany
Allegheny - shutout 
Case Western Reserve 
John Carrol - shutout 
Geneva - shutout 
Slippery Rock 
Westminster 
Jeanette Harriers 
Hiram - shutout 
Thiel - shutout 
Westminster 
Geneva
Duquesne - shutout
Thiel - shutout
Case Western Reserve
John Carrol - shutout
Hiram
Allegheny
Bethany
Youngstown State - shutout 
Kent State - shutout
1982
1983
West Liberty
Robert Morris - shutout
Jeanette Harriers
Hiram - shutout 
Thiel - shutout 
Case Western Reserve 
Jeanette Harriers 
Duquesne - shutout 
Robert Morris - shutout 
Geneva - shutout 
West Liberty 
Westminster 
John Carrol - shutout 
Allegheny 
Bethany
Hiram - shutout 
Bethany - shutout 
Westminster 
Hiram - shutout 
Case Western Reserve 
John Carrol - shutout 
Geneva - shutout 
Grove City 
Jeanette Harriers 
Robert Morris 
Duquesne
artans clinch tie in Pennwood West
 By SEAN QUINNI Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan Field Hockey team has learned at least a tie for first place in the I Pennwood West Conference.I CMU sewed up the regular season with a I wet 1-0 victory over Chatham. The game 
$yas played during last Thursdays storm. The winning goal was scored, for the second game in a row, by Amy Robbins. The TarI tans do have one non-league game left on [the schedule, against Westminster next 
! Monday. But, they are presendy tied with
Bethany at the top. Bethany finishes its 
league games next week, so the Tartans will 
have to wait and see. They would prefer to 
be lonely at the top.
The Chatham game was once again dom
inated by the Tartans. But, as usual, the 
CMU offense couldnt put the ball into the 
net enough times to show their dominance. 
Coach Joan Maser explains that the difficul
ties on the young team are mainly due to 
inexperience.
Maser expects next year to be a really 
good season, with the team maturing
together. Maser only loses 2 starters, and 
expects 2 players to return from seasonending injuries, including their top frontliner, Maria Kozo. However, the Tartans 
won a championship without Kozo, and 
without experienced players. That in itself 
says alot about their future and about Masers coaching skill. Just imagine how good 
the Tartans can be with a rehabilitated 
Kozo, another years experience, and 
with Maser behind the bench. There 
shouldnt be any problem being in first 
place all by themselves.
The Second Annual 
AB Airband Competition
Saturday, November 5 
Ballroom - 8:00 pm 
Hosted by Maxine Lapidnss12 groups will be allowed to participate, and a seven minute time limit will be placed on each group. 
first prize  $200 
second prize  $100 
third prize  $50
Entries will be accepted on Wednesday, October 6 from 2 pm until 5 pm in the Skibo lobby.
Tapes are due on Wednesday, November 2 at 4 pm along with a $10 deposit.
What Is It
The performers in an Airband Competition are normal people, but the music they perform is that of a popular musical group of the past or 
present. The object is to look like the actual singers, and perform the way they would (while taped music is played). The group that best 
impersonates the real singing group wins!
Sponsored by AB Lectures 8c Special Events 8c AB CoffeehouseFunded by Student Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 18, 1983
Cheerleaders use knowledge to cheer better
By HAL COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Cheerleading is not listed as an intercolle
giate sport. In fact, some of the present cheer
leaders did not know that Division III 
Camegie-Mellon even had a cheerleading 
squad before arriving on campus. Student 
athletes were surprised to learn that cheer
leading is a varsity sport at CMU.
The eight women that comprise this 
years team all earned varsity letters in high 
school. The Tartans have formal tryouts 
every year, and the younger girls work on 
the junior varsity squad. Through their 
work, the cheerleaders are gaining 
recognition.
This year the cheerleaders have a new 
coach, Anne Cadigan. The squad feels that 
she is really motivating and very enthusias
tic. It is difficult to make Gimme a T 
sound new.
The football Tartans are ranked No. 2 in 
the nation among division III schools. Peo
ple are beginning to watch CMU because it 
is exciting to watch CMU, and as the foot
ball team gaihs recognition, so does the 
cheerleading squad.
The cheerleaders are improving for many 
reasons. First, they are more unified than 
last year. This unification includes their 
feelings off the field as well as syncronization on the field.
Secondly, they are doing more things 
which add variety. This variety gives them 
more options depending upon who has the 
ball and what part of the field they are on.
The third reason is that the new coach ha's 
brought new ideas and new cheers which 
makes it more interesting for the crowd and 
renews interest for the cheerleaders.
CMU cheerleading and the Kiltie band
are rich in tradition. Whenever CMU wins a 
football game, members of the band go 
down to the field and join the cheerleaders as 
they do Radio-City Rockettes style kicks 
for each point the Tartans score. In any 
event, the band has been the cheerleaders 
most fervant fan club.
Perhaps what helps them decide what 
cheer to do is a good understanding of the 
game. Cadigan has required every member 
of the squad to look up football in the encyc
lopedia. Another important factor is that
they are proud of the football team.
The administration is beginning to recog
nize them as well. President Richard Cyert 
came down and congratulated them after 
the Tartans trounced Hiram College 46-0. 
More administrative recognition, of course, 
means more financial support. This year the 
team received new warm-up suits.
The team captain is Sharon Blosel and 
the co-captain is senior Randi Bograd. The 
rest of the team is composed of seniors Beth 
Marcus, Regina Verteramo and Gail Willi
ams; junior Anita Hrebinko; and sopho> 
mores Kim Kirkwood and Pam Snyder. For* " 
the most part, they will cover all varsity ' 
football and basketball games.
The JV squad will cover varsity soccer 
and JV football and basketball. They have 
not cheered at a game yet, but they are 
excited about their October 17 debut. The 
JV team includes the following freshmen: 
Karin Johnson, Ruth Lassman, Michelle 
Pritchett, Melissa Swinton, Marianne 
Waleski and Jackie Yonek.
UMOC
Yes, you can be the 
ugliest man (or 
woman) on campus
Enter yourself or someone from 
your organization in the
Ugly Man On Campus 
Contest
Just come to one of our ugly photo sessions 
Wed. Oct 19 7-9 pm 
Thurs. Oct. 20 7-9 pm 
at Room 45 Skibo
For more information contact 
Kathleen Romaruk x4819 
Proceeds go to charity.
Another A Phi 0 Service
Attention Students 
and Faculty Members
Now you will be able to see this 
stunning performance of theatre at its 
best at a special student 
discount price
With your ID card you can buy 
tickets at half price one hour before 
each performance at the Stanley 
Box Office Only
StanleyOpens this Friday
TheatreThrough Sunday onlyw
261-2800Evening 8 pm
Saturday, Sunday Matinee 2 pm
STUNNING! EXCITING! A GRAND AND 
GUMMS EVENING IN THE THEATRE.'
5 TONY AWARDS INCLUDING BEST PLAY
I AMADEUS ITICKETS NOW ON SALE
STANLEY THEATRE BOX OFFICE and 
AU KAJfMANN S DEPARTMENT STORES 
CHARGf I* W0*f VISA o< AAASRCARD 7S-2:fr

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 23
October, 1983
TODAY!
Where Engineering Activities  Product Development & 
Process Operations  Are Vital!
Tennis shocks Duquesne to do it
fartans capture perfect conference record
PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
The tennis team finished its season 
itrongly, posting a 7-3 overall record 
^eluding a surprising win over Duquesne
- and remaining untouchable in the con;rence.
With a durable and hard-hitting lineup, 
lopes were nothing but high before last 
Fridays conference tournament at 
Washington and Jefferson. 
t Seven sleepy players and a coach piled 
nto a van at 6:30 in the morning, all remain
The 1983 Tartan womens tennis team.
ing relatively quiet during the hour ride to 
windy Washington, PA. Because of their 
excellent individual records, the Tartans 
were able to secure two first seeds and two 
second seeds.
The only unseeded player, second singles 
Darla Messick, overcame any nervousness 
from participating in her first collegiate 
tournament and beat a Chatham player as 
comfortably as she had two days before dur
ing the teams last regular season match. 
Messick fell in the second round, however, 
but not after establishing herself as a player
who will be a constant and respected threat 
over her next three seasons.
The remaining CMU players charged 
right into the finals, thinking back to last 
years sweep of the conference. Once again, 
they were ready to taste the sweetness of a 
possible near-sweep, until their opponents 
decided against another season of CarnegieMellon domination.
Two-time conference champ and senior 
co-captain Bridget Kyne played like a 
winner, but her W 8c J opponent hit every
thing back, executing too many winning
photo by George Stafford
shots of her own. The W & J #1 player was 
pumped up by 20 or so ecstatic fans and an 
earlier defeat of the first seed; she played an 
unbeatable game.
W 8c Js first doubles team was a new and 
stronger combination than the regular sea
son pair. The higher calibre of play took 
CMUs Beth Doughtery and Laurie Aiendas 
by surprise, but the talented senior and jun
ior combination simply played their own 
overbearing game. Last years champs 
forced W 8c J to a third tie-breaking set. 
Pandemonium isnt the word to describe the 
madness surrounding the court, and all of it 
was in support of the Presidents. It was all 
too much for the Tartans; they put up a 
regal front but they lost the tie-breaker by 
two points.
Lorena Miller also affected a three-setter 
against a very smart Bethany player, but 
Millers steady backcourt style propelled her 
to a welcomed victory. After two years of 
barely missing the starting lineup, the CMU 
junior proved that she can dish out whatever 
is thrown (or served) at her.
Bethany also nudged CMUs second dou
bles team in a three-set decision. Sophomore 
Leslie Inglese and senior co-icaptain Pauline 
Kramer were used to dramatic endings and 
played out this last match of the day in an 
emotional manner, hoping that a win 
would clinch what was a very tight tourna
ment. Although they eventually pulled up 
from a last-set deficit to win their match, W 
8c J had clinched the team title with a second 
singles win.
Losing by a score of 25-24 to Bethany 
could have made for a dismal ride home, but 
the girls put the day behind them and remi
nisced about the previos seasons good times 
and championships.
INTRODUCING...
TRAVENOL LABORATORIES A SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRESENTATION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25,1983, 7:00PM - 9:00PM 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES CENTER, RM. 111 - SKIBO HALL
Travenol Laboratories, an international manufacturer of medical care products, will be on campus to 
discuss career opportunities for engineering graduates Tuesday, October 25th. 
Meet with our technical representatives and discover the vital role that engineering plays in the success 
of our multi-billion dollar corporation.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: 11/16/83
Make arrangements now for a personal interview on campus. We will be interviewing at Carnegie-Mellon 
on Wednesday, November 16th. Look for details at your Placement Office.
Travenol Laboratories, Inc.
P.O. Box 490 
Round Lake, IL 60076
TRAVENOL
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanOctober 18, 1983
BOP :
Authority
Vegetables
PAC StandingsStatisticsINDIVIDUAL LEADERSIM Stats
PACwL
CMIJ40
Case Western40
Allegheny22
Bethany22
Wash. 8c Jeff.12
Hiram03
Thielo4
OverallwL
CMU  '  ' ' -> -r * 60
Case Western60
Allegheny32
Bethany32
John Carroll24
Wash. & Jeff.14
Hiram04
Thiel06
CMU20 
John Carroll 16 
Case Western 24 
Bethany 14
T PF PA
0 151 11
0 103 52
0 45 74
0 41 31
1 39 58
1 30 94
0 32 100
T PF PA
0 189 22
0 150 71
0 87 94
0 58 38
0 61 120
1 42 120
1 52 120
0 49 142
Wash. & Jeff. 0 
Allegheny 14 
Hiram 20 
Thiel 0
Team OffenseRPTA
CMU16896302319386.5
Case Western10209301950325.0
Hiram ^45811381596319.2
Allegheny7655391304260.8
Thiel43610661502250.3
Bethany5806411221244.2
John Carroll.7836691452242.0
Wash. & Jeff.55455311071843
Team DefenseRPTA
Bethany504472976195.2
CMU4689471415235.8
Wash, fc Jeff.8048281632272.0
Case Western6459991644274.0
Hiram8526431495299.0
John Carroll9278831812302.0
Allegheny9256171542308.4
Thiel - '* 11227761898316.3
PassingACIY/GR
Dave Zito, CMU2816363.8 172.4
Fred DiSanto, Case Western124605131.7 109.0
Dave McCaughey, Bethany88456113.0104.7
Joe Mollica, CMU3616341.2 102.3
Jim Miale, Thiel131629139.3 100.2
* -
RushingA
' <> * vsYAVT Y/G
Jim Donnellyj-jCase Western1475333.6288.8
Brad Cantwell, John Carroll1254573.7476.2
Jim Morrison, CMU954294.5** 17L5
Glen Simon, Bethany923513.8170.2
Ed Taylor, Allegheny402085.2052.0
ReceivingRYAT R/G
Andy Houpt, Thiel3232110.005.3
Mark Warburton, Hiram2330213.114.6
Greg Gorsica, Hiram2131915.204.2
Neal Nola, Bethany1823112.80SS
Tom Catanzarite, John Carroll1723113.612.8
Marcus Elkins, Allegheny1415511.122.8
Punting-OverallPYDSAV
Kevin Baird, Allegheny27105739.1
Dave Strinisa, Bethany2180538.3
Mike OShip, CMU2180138.1,
Jim Rafoth, Case Western36131936.6
Tom Pollock, Hiram2689934.6
Punting-ConferencePYDS
:
AV
Mike OShip, CMU2041841.8ilill
Kevin Baird, Allegheny2693939.1- w ^m 1
Jim Rafoth, Case Western2181338.7I fMm fPI
Dave Stranisa, Bethany' 2180538.5
Tom Pollock, Hiram2172934.7Sill
* : -' r  * ^ "*
t
yy% 3% Afe'
4"*5 

Custom Designed Hairstyles
that only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
NO
APPOINTMENT
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH) 
$1240
(WASH-CUT-1LOW-STVLE)
COLOR 
Mo&, TW, Wed. 1*7 Thun., Fri. 104 07-3MO
NO APPOINTMENTS UNISEX HADt SALON
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
297 Attwood Sam Acraa the arnet iron Oakland tart Office
Happy
Birthday
Susie
From the 
Mad Dogs 
on the staff
mb? yamcWpV *
Touch
FootballMajors
NFC
Coaches Stars 
PKA 
SAE 
ATO
Div. A
NP-Comp.
Spliffs
Army
Koshed
Zoo
Whankers B
Div. B
KS-B 
PIKA-C 
Dikfo 
Nasty Nads 
SAE
Hammer Heads
Minors
W
DU 1
Penetrators
2
1IWeanies12Titans03
Div.D
  'v-'- Mv: 
wL
OA f30
Generic Team2\
Carrot Cycles12
Scarecrows21
SPN12
TX-B03
Div. EWL
Crunch Bunch30
7-E Lunatics20
Morewood 3-E32
Ice Men; 12
PLPl?
Air Force04
THE NATIONAL CENTER 
FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTINGLSAT/GMAT MCAT/SAT
rnC PREPARATION VJIYE* COURSES
fCOURSES OFFEREDr
 NATIONWIDEforth*
DECEMBER 3 LSAT w JANUARY 28 GMATW including
f Camegie-Mellon
 Complete in-class and supplemental materials
 Simulated exam conditions  Limited class sizeLSAT 40-hr begins 11/8 j Classes now formingCOURSES 32-u begins 11/19 COURSES <or the Jan. 28 Exam
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering 
the LSAT/GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business School 
admission process, call now
TOIL FREE (800) 223-2618r writs:The National Center for Educational Testing 1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777 New ferk, N Y 10020
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or 
take the next course FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

October 18, 1983The TartanPage 25
'Seal of approval" designed by Communications Center
o encourage greater clarity in technical 
"uments, CMUs Communications 
sign Center (CDC) has created a seal of 
pproval to be printed on documents that 
orm to the centers standards for plain
nglish.
The first organization to receive permision to use the seal is the Allen-Bradley 
mpany Systems Division in Highland 
eights, Ohio, which manufactures indusautomation products.
The CMU Communications Design Censtudies communication problems in 
industry, business and government Its col
laboration with Allen-Bradley began when 
company-commissioned survey found 
that users erf programmable controllers 
rated product documentation second only to 
quality workmanship in selecting a vendor.
The objectives of the CarnegieMellon/Allen-Bradley program involved
developing an Allen-Bradley manual for the 
design and writing of the companys techni
cal documents and formulating laboratory 
procedures for user-testing documentation 
before publication.
According to Dr. Erwin Steinberg of the 
CMU center, in user-edit tests a person uses 
the draft of a manual to operate the device (a 
machine, a computer, etc.) for which the 
manual was written, thinking aloud as he or 
she does so. What is said is recorded on tape, 
while a tester sits nearby making notes on 
the users problems.
This testing reveals any missing or mis
leading information, procedures that need 
correction, possible design problems, as well 
as the documents clarity and helpfulness, 
he says.
The text accompanying the seal of appro
val notes that "the seal of the CDC indicates 
solely that the CDC has approved the plan
ning and testing, layout, and writing style of 
manuals and is evidence of Allen-Bradleys 
interest in serving its customers better 
through easy-to-understand docu
mentation. The first documentation deve
loped under the new program is the
Product Guide for the PLC-4 Programma
ble Controller which is designed for use in 
Allen Bradleys product school. The guide 
brings users along step by step and helps 
them to use the sophisticated new equip
ment immediately without an instructor.
Computer break-ins may increase
continued from page 5
tech level erf system penetrations and cir
cumventions. These capers will be harder to 
detect and deter.
The further development erf formal, speci
fication and verification techniques and 
associated technologies will permit the sys
tem developers, reviewers or specifier him
self to verify that a given system specification 
is consistent with a given model of desired 
operation.
In conclusion, I would like to say that I
believe the scale of the hacking problem is 
going to escalate dramatically as more of the 
technology makes its way into the mass 
market. There is no one easy solution to 
these problems. The directions that need to 
be taken are technological, ethical/moral 
and social. Hopefully an increased aware
ness erf the vulnerability erf our systems to 
penetration and circumvention will allow 
us to see the light, in the form of solutions, at 
the end of the tunnel. And hopefully that 
light is not a train.
!
JOE FRESHMAN
/''THIS met HAS CHANGED^ 
It COSTS MORE fOR. 
ONE VEAP. THAN It DIO FOR 
FOUR?
''ANO THEYU DEVOTE A VfllOtfS
HonrcomNe to yv1v 0b%1sic
BUT SPEND hi Trtt MONEY ON 
COMPUTI**/
By Mark Levine
Look foR StucIeint CoRp 
FRidAys n tNe Grey Maher
October 21
28
November 4
I I 
18
(Tuesday) 22 
December 2
Campus Cheese Co.
And Everything Nice (Flower Co.) 
Campus Cheese Co.
And Everything Nice (Flower Co.) 
Campus Cheese Co.
And Everything Nice (Flower Co.) 
And Everything Nice (Flower Co.)

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
Female student roomate wanted to share large two bedroom apartment in quiet Squirrel Hill area. Close to busline and shopping district. Call: 421-6534 For November 1.
Visiting professor seeks furnished residence,November - May. Minimum 1 bedroom. Prefer garage, walk to CMU. Leave message with Ms. McCoy, 578-2182. Business hours.
Professional Typing: reasonable rates, quick turn around, pickup and delivery. Shirley 
672-0682
Singer/entertainer needed for a convention show band; males and females; call 751-4020 after 5 p.m.
Computer Consultant  Part-time. Must have a Commodore-64 and VIC-1541 disk drive. Familiar with BASIC and at least one word processor. The major assignment is to evaluate/test a newly-developed word processor for C-64. Call 793-2885 or send a brief resume to: P.O. Box 10679, Pgh., 15235.
University instructor will tutor, help you study Romance languages, English, Social Sciences. English as a foreign language. 361-7094 (noon - 9 p.m.)
PONGPAIROCHANA  hope you had a wonderful 21st birthday Vince. Thanks for coming to Pittsburgh and have a nice trip home. Im gonna miss you! Love, Lucia.
URGENT - Tutors needed to be hired immediately for new walk-in tutoring program in H&SS Philosophic Methods and Social Values Course (80-100). Students who earned an A in this freshman course and are interested in tutoring are urged to contact Dr. Roseanne Hickey at ext. 2922. The Walk-In Tutoring Service is sponsored by Student Affairs through the Counseling and Student Development Center.
Roommate needed to share apt. on N. Nevill St. 10 min. walk to campus. Located near grocery store, laundromat, etc. Call 682-7133 after 4:30.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable rates. Call Shirlev before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or academic. Papers resumes, cover letters, ejc. Student rates available. Ericka Van Sickel 241-1338^ Dianes Secretarial Service Resumes, academic, business and personal typing. Pick up and delivery available. 464-1618.
Italian lessons (all levels) with qualified university instructor. Will also tutor you in Spanish, French, English. Translations. 361-7094 (noon - 9 p.m.)
Moving? Tired of your new roomie? Cant fit your fridge in your MG? Call Second Mile Light Hauling. Ask for Vince. 231-2766.
SONY - BLANK 90-MINUTE CASSETTE TAPE $18.00 BOX OF 10. AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER WITH SPEAKERS. GETS RCT $45.00. 687-3311.
Wanted - Grateful Dead concert tapes to borrow, to trade, to listen to. Call Ton, evenines, at 521-5091.
There will be a FREE dinner meeting for anyone interested in working on the UJA Campus Campaign Wed. Oct. 19 - 5:30 p.m., at the CMU Hillel House, 133 Margaret Morrison. RSVP 621-8875.
TYPING/WORD PROCESSING - Reasonable and professional. Fast, efficient, excellent results. Thesis, dissertations, RESUMES. Will strictly follow any format required. Confidential. Results guaranteed. Private word processing classes. Only a few minutes from campus. Free disk storage. Phone: 836-4923. Answers 24 hours.
Money found October 11. Identify denomination and location to reclaim. Robin x3398.
Free, walk-in tutoring service in Writing, Calculus, Chemistry, Physics, and H&SS Writing. Mondays thru Thursdays 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
For information, call 578-2922.Sponsoied by C & SD Center and Student Affairs.
Managing Stress, Effective Study Skills and Confidence in Communication are workshops offered by the C&SD Center. For information, call 578-2922.
We love the new pledges! - The Little Sisters of Delta Upsilon.
To the Kiltie Marching Band: You guys are great - Men Without Pants strike again! Love yall, Tine.
DRESS FOR SUCCESS: A fashion show featuring styles for the professional woman will be held on Sunday, Oct. 30 at 4:00 p.m. in Skibo Ballroom. Tickets available at the Information Desk and at the.door for $1.00. All are welcome. Presented by CMU-SWE.
JACQUELINE S SECRETARIAL SERVICESDISSERTATIONS, MANUSCRIPTS, BOOKS PROFESSIOANL WORK DONE QUICKLY AND ACCURATELY 372-1376 EVENINGS WEEKENDS.
FOR SALE: IBM PC, 128K, amber monitor,I.D.S. prism printer 132. Easy Writer 22 word G6nGr3l processing. 344-3859 eves, wknds. ______________
HANDWRITING ANALYSIS - send sample writings (notes, letters, in pen) and $5.00 to M. C.,B-214 Mudge (remember return address!).
Happy Birthday, Roy! Love and kisses from y0ur favorite bassoon player!
Professional Typing Service: Resumes, lettu papers, etc. Pica-elite typefaces, IBM Selectricl Highly experienced. 521-7888.
Hey, Kappas - do you still have that Rap* Spirit? (Exercise your------Muscles!)
Roomate Wanted for Nov 1. Responsible persi to share N. Oak Apt. with artist/Musicia 137.50/mo. 621-8177 even.
1 & 2 bedroom apartments now available, i ing, A/C, equiped kitchen, walk to all univeri ties. Near bus from $232 plus electric. 361 -5792!
Typing jobs sought Last minute assignments! accepted. Editing available. Use latest me IBM equipment. Fees negotiable. ELLEN: 499^ 0955.
Women: Do you lack a network? Would you lil a support group? Join the Academic Bag Ladie over lunch on Thurs. 12-1 at 4515 Forbes Avej Phone 682-6886.
Walk to campus, on bus line. Selection of sizes! and styles af apts. Security, high-rise elevator! building, intercom, coin-op laundry. ALl| UTILITIES INCLUDED from $268. 361-5792.
ECE Tutoring; Are you having trouble with an undergraduate ECE course? The members of Eta Kappa Nu, the electrical engineering honor society, are willing to help. Members will be available from 7 to 9 pm Sunday through Thursday in the undergrad lounge (HH 109) to provide help. Take advantage of these sessions to beat those homework blues.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu-f dents in Economics and Business Management,! will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:301 in Room 11 Skibo. Students of ail majors are invited to participated AIESECs intemadonal exchange and management development j programs.
The Camegie-Mellon Investment Group meetsevery Thursday at 6:30 in Skibo room #11. All interested people are welcome.
RUGBY
vs.
 Voo 
SAmpAf ocx.11 
I tA f
U, 'H-K'OM. to \\OT pOf fc0Ai>T
Fvh pep f^(
siwenr *Tivtrifc>
a?
FREE!
 Lowest prices in Pgh.
 Convenient Location
 Largest selection of 
International Foods 
Between NY and Chicago
 Friendly Servicej
d,
L.C.D. Watch Pen with 
Purchase of $20.00 or more, Grocery items only. 
ONE COUPON PER CUSTOMER 
offer expires November 24, 1983
Customer must present this coupon
-nnrsbT
Internolienfcl Foods from 0.1iD0frica American^India. Housewares iKitchaiwaiUtensilsGtfts
2nd FLOOR
?V, Radie, Stereo, Cassette, AN Vide*, 0f1g.-1 and appliances.
WANTED: Ceric/Labor 
Part time help
Radio/Cassette, Student Carry Bag, 
brief case, rice cookers, irons, pens, 
tos, headphones, clock-radios, digital 
watch and isles of food items
C^JAi ^TAr,c;JPfTTSBUfltH 
ASIAN C6MTER
Free Street Parking Sat. & Sun. or try the new East Busway Express from 5th Ave. 67C/67U/71C. Wilkinsburg Station is just one block from Pgh. Asian Center.
tX\T I I
Asta* MmkndiMS. Uc
SAMPO
SONY
Wa r* Open 7 Day* a DM 
10 AM til 6 PM
Loafed m *e Mtoburgi AarCwtfsr, 707 Nm Aye. Wftin*wg-2nd floorweomburg-znd floor
PANASONIC
a - Phone 731-8810
CALL S7I-M21CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

\
Music was an important part of the weekend.
It was a hot time on the IM field Friday night.
4
With TV stars around, can cameras be 
far behind?
Photos by:
Mike Pilewski 
John Stilwell 
Erik Horn 
Bob Fishel 
Bifl Misiaszel 
George Stafford

---------------------------------------------------

Hill Street gang talks to The Tartan
The following are excerpts from inter
views with Steven Bochco, Barbara Bosson, 
and Charles Haid, who were interviewed by 
Pauline Kramer, the Tartan features editor. 
Mark Frost and Bruce Weitz were inter
viewed by staff writer Jeff Hendrix.
Mark Frost
Tartan: How has CMUs fine arts depart
ment prepared you?
Frost: It prepared me tremendously, 
mosdy by making me a graduate. By gra
duating from the same department from the 
same department as Steven  that was 
really the best way in which it prepared me. 
Also, I learned a lot from a couple of 
teachers, you know, there were one or two 
teachers who really did a lot for me. Simply, 
it was a place to grow up, from 17 to 20, 
which were the ages when I was here, I 
learned a lot about living and life from the 
people I hung out with.
Tartan: Are those teachers still here?
Frost: No, one of them is at Yale, and I 
think the other one has retired  no, Jim 
Rosenberg is still here and hes one of the 
people I felt Ive learned from. He was a big 
help to me.
Tartan: How about writing for the show? 
Youre the editor 
Frost: Thats just a fancy name for a 
writer.
Tartan: Are you the head writer?
Frost:We really dont have a head writer. 
We have six people who are writing all the 
time. And we have all pretty much equal 
rank. What well do in the course of a epi
sode, well take a single story line and follow 
it through or perhaps just wTite an act. And 
then every once in a while when you have 
time at the beginning of the season youll do a whole script by yourself.
But everybody at some point works on 
every' part of the script, so its a very collabor
ative effort. And a tremendously exciting 
way to work. Its been a gas.
Tartan: You were in drama, what turned 
you on to the writing aspect?
Frost: I had always wanted to be a writer. I 
couldnt come in as a freshman and be a 
wTiter. I came in as an actor and my second 
year was a director. And my third year I 
kinda became a writer when I was allowed 
to. I will end up doing some directing before 
long and I may end up doing some shows 
next season. Writing was always my first 
love.
Charles Haid
Tartan: Did you have many wild times 
here?
Haid. I spent most of my time working, 
thats the funny part. I spent most of my 
time working very, very hard because you 
had to and I think you still have to. You can 
have a lot of fun and say Oh werent we 
wild but that would be on Saturday night. 
The rest of the time we had our noses to the 
grindstone because we had to. The drama 
department at least doesnt let you off the 
hook  you get thrown out. The first two 
years are involved just surviving the cuts.
Tartan: Did you have a good time while 
you were here?
Haid: I had a great time  I dont 
remember half of it but it must have been 
fun.
Tartan: Why dont you remember it?
Haid: Well, you know, it was the 60s, you 
know what I mean?
Tartan: Yeah, I can dig it. (laughs)
Haid : It was the 60s and we were damn 
well concerned about a lot of stuff  the war 
was on. We were fighting for our rights. The 
girls were mad at the professors and the 
faculty was mad at this, and 
Tartan: What do you think of students
now? Do you think we're more pacifistic?
Haid: Well, I think pacifist has a certain 
ring to it. I wouldnt call it being pacifists  
you still see the same kind of weird, wideeyed people in the drama department.
I think theres more of a concentration 
here of the energy  creative energy  in all 
the fields. People seem to be more enthus-, 
not enthusiastic, that isnt the right word. 
More sort of attached to what theyre doing, 
more . . . more connected to the direction of 
what theyre doing. Theyre taking it more 
seriously in a certain sense. I think the kind 
of person who comes to this university is an 
achiever in a certain sense.
Tartan: I saw you on Merv Griffin and 
you were talking about getting into Bud
dhism, or some religion 
Haid: Meditation. At one point when I 
got real  when everything started to go 
very quickly with me they said I should do a 
180 degree tumatound, so I went to India to 
study meditation, which was a quiet thing
 diametrically opposed to what was hap
pening to me personally at the time. Name 
in the paper, name on the Cut, know what I 
mean? It wras a very good thing for me 
because it put things into perspective.
Tartan: Are you good friends with 
Michael Warren?
Haid: Yeah, hes my best friend. Hes 
probably one of the funniest guys that I 
know but I couldnt repeat any of his jokes. 
He has a great grip on idiomatic black 
humor. He works very hard . .. for his own 
people. Heres something with Hill and 
Renko, its very simple, especially for young 
people: young urban children especially can * 
see that a black man and a white man can 
work together in harmony and have fun and 
not like each other and like each other. Hes 
black and Im white  Im colorblind when 
it comes to that.
Tartan: With the episodes concerning 
Renko and his dad, did you reach down 
inside for any kind of parallel?
Haid: Yeah, with death I think its such a 
universal subjct, the death of a parent espe
cially. It doesnt take a whole lot, at least for 
me, to take those imaginary circumstances 
and make them real. Its a great fear, a fear of 
separation.
Renko has that male chauvenistic atti
tude. Hes gotta be a man all the time when 
inside he has some very deep feelings. I think 
what has to happen to him in that area is to 
fall in love. So often you find a person thats 
exactly like you and thats the first person 
you try to take apart. You just cant stand the 
fact that hes got it licked. Thats the whole 
thing with relationships. Its the perfect per
son arid you say well, you know, hes too 
this or shes too  and what it really is is 
looking in the mirror. We try to take other 
human beings that are mirror images of 
ourselves.
We have a little group that really runs 
around real seriously  Betty (Thomas), 
Bruce, Eddie (Marinaro), Mike (Warren), 
and me. We all hang out  the big five. We 
all have little nicknames that change all the 
time. We call Bruce the littie Jew. We call 
Travanti (speaks quickly like slick 
announcer), Danny Travanti, you know, 
the nite club singer from Vegas: DANNY 
TRAVANTI! And Veronicas the princess.
Tartan: Is she from Long Island
Haid: No, Philly, but she covers it up 
pretty well. Theyre just little nicknames. 
You gotta have fun on the show.
Renko has gotten away with more double 
meanings, and he says it right out there. We 
actually look for them now. If somebody 
comes up with a great word to say (with 
Renkos accent) yankin your hook, man, 
well get it right on there. (Laughs) Its a 
terrible thing to do but why not make it 
funny? It breaks up the monotony. Everyb
ody takes us so damn seriously anyway. We
better not. God, wed be in mental 
institutions.
Tartan: The relationships between char
acters 
Haid: As despicable as people sometimes 
think LaRue is  Kiel Martin  I dont 
think there is another actor in America who 
can handle the dialogue the way he does. We 
call him George Raft, thats his nickname. 
He is the only guy who can talk like hes out 
of a 30s movie and make you believe it... He 
and Neal Washington carry a tremendous 
amount of plot; whereas Renko and Belker 
are starts in themselves even though one of 
the most powerful episodes weve had was 
with J.D. and his drinking. So everybody 
gets their shot.
Bosson and Bochco
Tartan: If you dont what do you think 
might happen?
Bosson: Well, shes a very vulnerable 
lady, and, uh, I am not like her in thta Fay 
is a woman who is in the early stages of 
growth. I believe she struggles very hard. 
Im a little further along in life than Fay 
is, but not so far ahead thst I cant know 
Fay very well. A lot of people see the 
negative things about Fay, her selfcenteredness which causes her not to 
understand that shes not the center of the 
universe when shed in pain. But I feel 
like I understand her so I kinda want to 
protect her.
Tartan: What are her feelings toward 
Henry? Are we going to see any kind of 
relationship?
Bosson:( teasing) Well, youre just 
going to have to wait and see (laughs).
Tartan: I knew I shouldnt have asked 
that one. (To Bochco) I bet you wont tell 
either, will you?
Bochco: Not a chance.
Tartan: How does it feel to be back?
Bochco: Wonderful, just great. I really 
didnt anticipate the flood of emotions 
that Im having.
Tartan (to Bosson): Youre from near 
here, arent you?
Bosson: My hometown is about 30 
miles south of here  Charleroi.
Tartan: Are you both living in Califor
nia now?
Bosson/Bochco: Yes.
How do you like the change?
Bosson: He loves it; I hate it (laughs).
Bochco: Its home now, 17 years Ive 
lived there. I left Carnegie Tech in 1966, 
got in my car and this is my first trip back.
Bosson: This is home to me. Im so 
glad that the leaves changed. It sounds so 
self-centered but I feel like they did it for 
me (laughs).
Bochco: Boy, it was pretty coming in 
on the airplane. It was six oclock, 6:15 
and it was just tw ilight  coming in past 
the countryside, it was gorgeous.
Tartan: Do you two corroborate on 
scripts?
Bosson, Bochco: No, no.
Bochco: We collaborate on life
(laughs).
Bosson: Specifically about my charac
ter well talk, but everybody does that. 
Because I have more access to him than 
other people do, I might say something 
over dinner whereas someone else would 
have to take a meeting.
Tartan: When did this idea strike you 
for this grand tv show?
Bochco: It didnt really strike me. We 
(co-creator Michael Kozoll) were asked by 
NBC to develop a police show and we 
were really not enthusiastic about doing 
it. We reluctantly agreed to do it and only 
on the promise of a complete freedom 
from any kind of interference, which they 
agreed to do. And then we sat down and
tried to go at it from the point of view 
all the things we didnt want to do i?
Tartan: Which was 
Bochco: You know, the standardcop 
melodrama. We tried to create somethin 
we hadnt seen before or done before and 
what came out was Hill Street  We 
wrote it in two weeks.
Tartan: How had you develpoed your 
stature from graduating from here 
being approached by network 
executives?
Bochco: Well, 15 years of hard workj^M 
in television, working my w7ay up as a 
writer, and then as a story editor, a producer, and creator. I j ust wound up doing 
all of it. Im surprised that the union 
didnt arrest me.
Tartan: What about Broadway?
Bochco: I have no interest in doing 
anything else at this time in my life other 
than what Im doing.
Tartan: So youre happy.
Bochco: Yeah, very. J.]
Tartan: Barbara, how do you fattf 
about Fay? Do you find any part of her in 
you or vice versa?
Bosson: Um, Im very fond of Fay. I fee 
about her the way I feel about my child 
ren. Shes someone who I feel I have to 
take very good care of.
Bruce Weitz
Tartan: Were you all friends before you 
came here? 3Weitz: Why do I get all the friends ques< tions? We hated each other then and we still do (laughs). Theres a common bora between everyone who goes here. There was a lot of suffering along with a lot of happy times. That made it difficult for the acting students then as Im sure that it does now, 
You knew each other before?Weitz: I was two years ahead of Charlie, the seniors and juniors tend to hang around. You know, theres a whole caste system in the university. Yeah, I knew Charlie, 9 dated a couple of weeks and we realized we werent right for each other (laughs).
Tartan: What do you have in common 
with Belker?Weitz: Frustration, rage, hostility, parts of me, as we all do. I mean we all have something in common with each of the characters on the show, thats why the characters so interesting because the number of people who can identify with the number of characters. Id like to think I have the same concern for people that he does.
Tartan: Why did you come back fffl 
homecoming?Weitz: The money.
Tartan: What were your aspirations 
while you xuere here?Weitz (laughs): They were in tune with what the schools aspirations were. I was interested in being trained for a theater that was almost nonexistent. Very few places does a theater exist to house all the people that are trained in this school:
Tartan: Do you ever get an urge to ad lib, Weitz: Within the structure of the script we are allowed to create. It is always within that structure. Everything is not written down in minute detail.
Tartan: Do you worry about maintain
ing the high level of standards on the should Weitz: Persoanlly, my only woriy is that the writers can keep up with it because as long as they can keep writing, I can keea acting. And I say that in all modesty, I don t mean that to sound braggadocio in any way But thats the truth, they make our job much easier. When die writing is good, every tiling else falls into place, when youre working with talented actors, and we have a lot of 
talented actors.
