PULVERIZE
THE
PANTHER
CHEKRING RALLY 
7:00 P. M. THURSDAY
CARNEGIE BOWL
VOL. XIX No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1924
LETS RETAIN CITY CHA
BASTIAN GOING AROUND END'TARTANS EAGERl 
FOR VICTORIES 
AGAINST PITT
CARLIN STOPPED AT THE LINE
Carnegie Alloted But Twenty 
Five Hundred Tickets Fcr 
Students  Obie Newman 
and Mates Await Kick-Off
m
: PEP RALLY THURSDAY
WASH-JEFF TOO 
MUCHFORPLAID 
SCORE IS 10-0
Break in First Quarter Puts 
W. &J. Team Within Scor
ing DistanceLack of Con
sistent Offence Hurts Tar
tans
FUMBLE IS COSTLY
Carnegie Tech dropped its chauce 
to cop the district championship by 
losing a colorless, but hard fought 
game to the Presideuts in Little 
Washington last Saturday. The Plaid 
and the Presidents were the only two 
of the leaders in this district to go so 
far in the season undefeated, Pitt hav
ing lost to LaFayette and West Vir
ginia in turn losing to Pitt.
It was a tense struggle from begin
ning to end, much closer than is told 
by the score. Our Alma Mater put 
up one of tho gamost uphill struggles 
ever 'witnessed in this section. The 
Plaid was consiaored as having done 
well in Saturdays tilt against one of 
the strongest, if not the strongest, 
team in tho district.
Tho old Carnegie fight and spirit 
was in the team, and was shown more 
than once. After the touchdown, on 
the first play of the second quarter 
the Skibos in their uphill fight worked 
tho ball down close to the Presidents 
goal, but were forced to kick, Futhey 
receiving the. kick and fumbling it 
lost the ball to Carnegie when Ben 
Kristof recovered it on Washington 
and Jeffersons 20-yard line. The 
ball was soon rushed to the five yard 
lino, but on the next play, the Skibos, 
over-anxious for a touchdown, lost the 
ball when Beede fumbled in an at
tempted line smash.
The work of Hadden and Carlin 
seemed to be too much for the Tar
tans; their consistent line smashes 
being their big ground gainers. Car
lin gained more ground on his punts 
than Newman, but from all appear
ances he seemed to have more time 
to get his kicks off. It seemed the 
Presidents had been coached to take 
particular care for the famous Car(Continued on Page Three)
REV. B. F. FRBER WILL SPEAK 
AT CHAPEL THIS TH
Rev. B. F. Farber, D.D., of the 
Sixth Presbyterian church, Forbes 
and Murray avenue, will be the 
speaker at the chapel service on 
Thursday, October 23, in the Little 
Theater. All can be assured of a 
very interesting talk by Dr. Farber, 
who needs no introduction to the up
perclassmen.
One talks of school spirit, and 
thinks of it mostly in' connection with 
athletic contests, but it can be shown 
as well by attending chapel service. 
On the day when the blue and white 
flag floats from the flag pole be sure 
to go to the Little Theater at 12:20 
oclock.
 RASSBACH IS! 
NAMED TO HEAD 
CAMPUS WEEK
ALL R. 0. T.C. CADET 
OFFICERS CHOSEN
James Knight and L. H. Harris 
to Lead the Carnegie 
Battalion
Student Council Selects Gen
eral Chairman For 1925 
Campus WeekPrelimin
ary Work to Begin Soon
7 MONTHS TO 6 C. W.
The Student Council has elected H. 
P. Rassbach, Senior in the College of 
Engineering, chairman of the 1925 
Campus Wee.k 
The chairmanship of the Campus 
Week is one of the biggest jobs on the 
campus and the successful fulfillment 
of the work involved requires a man
First Shilling to be 
Issued Next Month
Prominent Campus Authors 
to Contribute
The first issue of the Shilling will 
come out just before the Thanksgiv
ing holidays. The staff has begun 
work on it already and it promises to 
be a very popular number. Indeed, 
if all of their plans work out the 
girls have reason to expect a very 
successful year.
They have secured an article by a 
prominent campus figure for the first 
issue that will be sure to interest a]! 
his fellows. Carrying the idea that 
there is much in a name a little fur
ther, they !are going to Inaugurate 
two departments devoted entirely to 
personalities. The Contributor's 
Page is self-explanatory. The other 
is more or less a secret as yet, but 
the Shilling may get YOU, so youd 
better look out!
There are going to be lots more sto
ries and poems this year, with fewer 
English themes." The first cover 
design was inspired by a poem.
The staff is trying to make of the 
Shilling the kind of paper for which 
you'll feel a-genuine affection: one 
which you'll really enjoy from, cover 
to cover. If its not, if you think it 
lacks some interesting feature it 
might -well have, then tell the editor 
about it. Suggestions are welcome, 
and contributions are requested from 
anyone and everyone on the campus. 
The people who cannot write for it 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Acting on tho recommendations of 
Captains Lyons and Sherrill, Colonel 
Cunningham has appointed the fol
lowing cadet officers from among the 
Junior and Senior students enrolled 
in R. O. T. C., all recommendations 
being based on meritorious work in 
the past:
James L. Knight, Cndet Major.
L. H. Harris, Captain, Battalion Ad
jutant.
D. C. Lheureux, Cadet Captain.
Company A.
E. C. Tatum, First Lieutenant.
R. F. Rieglemeier, First Lieutenant.
W. A. Welday, Second Lieutenant.
A. McC. Harrison, First Sergeant.
C. A. Rice, W. E. Cavon, and R. S. 
Armstrong, Platoon Sergeants.
L. E. Smith, R. T. Gabler. P. B. 
Boyd. W. R. Stott. IT. E. Wallaco, E. 
W. Josephson, and T. W. Blewitt, ser
geants.
Company B.
John D. Jarema, Cadet Captain.
W. G. Winning, First Lieutenant.
H. R. Jones, Second Lieutenant.
L. L. Simmons, First Sergeant.
R. D. Gaylor, Paul Johner, R. W. 
Leonard, J. F. Sollors, Sergeant3.
Company C.
Milo Matter, Cadet Captain.
L. C. Hughes, First Lieutenant.
- J. W. McCredie, Second Lieutenant.
A. G. Wilson, First Sergeant.
N. R. Miles, J. J. Murray, M. H.
| Oldham, G. A. Rote, R. I. Winters, J. 
Harris, Sergeants.
The R. O. T. C. has been organized 
for this year into the above named 
companies, Company A being signal 
corps. Companies B and C being en
gineering units. Platoon drill is held 
every Thursday at 11:30. For the 
present, drill is conducted without 
arms, but service rifles -will be issued 
in several weeks. The work for the 
(Continued on Page Two.
H. P. RASSBACH
of high ability and leadership. The 
position requires a tremendous 
amount of comprehensive work and 
j the man selected for the place must 
j be a leader of ability and discretion, 
I one who possesses that happy facul1 ty of securing co-ordination and con(Continued on Page Two.)
FRESHA1AN RECEPTION 
TO BE HELD ON FRIDAY
Musical Clubs Stunt 
Try-Outs November 2
Four Concerts Booked For 
the Next Two Months
The informal reception for Fresh
men, given annually by Dean Brown 
and Dean Tarbell, will be held at the 
Union on Friday evening, October 24. 
from 8 to 12 p. m. Invitations have 
been sent to all the incoming class 
and the Freshmen are expected to 
make the most of this opportunity to 
become acquainted. The program for 
the evening includes entertainment 
and dancing. Professor Ely, Miss 
Mary Brown and Mr. Cameron are 
listed amang those who will enter
tain. Dance music will be furnished 
by the Collegiate Orchestra.
Deans Brown and Tarbell aro do
ing their utmost to make the recep
tion as attractive as possible. They 
realize the value of friendships 
formed in school and hence have laid 
plans by which they expect to ere 
I ate a spirit of comradeship that will 
prevail throughout the newcomers 
| college career.
The reception has become a school 
j tradition and is looked upon as bit?
event in the life of the underclassI man. The Plebes who attend are ex 
i (Continued . on Page Two.
The Musical Clubs tryouts for the 
stunts will be held Sunday, November
2, in the Union after the regular re
hearsal. This is the customary proce
dure, and the plans for the occasion 
are being made by L. P. Stimmler and 
his committee. Manager Lundquist 
announced the date last Sunday, and 
asked for suggestions on the question 
of the stunts. During the time which 
has elapsed since, he has been 
swamped with requests for hearings. 
The stunts, therefore, are expected to 
i be many in number and good in qual
ity.
The rehearsal last Sunday for the 
Glee Club was a bit out of order, ow
ing to the fact that the game Satur
day caused the throats of the stu
dents who sing to be quite raw. This 
did not make any difference to Di
rector Johnson, for he conducted the 
rehearsal in the regular manner, de
manding great work from the mem| bers.
Director Kovack of the Musical 
Clubs says that it made no difference 
in his organization whether there 
was a game or^not, for men can play 
instruments without having to worry 
about their voices. That means that 
j there is somewhat of an advantage 
In the Mandolin Club that does not 
| exist in the Glee Club, 
i Next Sunday, October 26th, the plc| tures of the Clubs will be taken, and 
that means that the men will have to 
; turn out en masse. The uniform
 this year will be tuxedoes, as It was 
j last year, and in1 case the new men 
have no tux as yet, they should re
port for the picture anyhow, bringing 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Preparations for tho Pitt gamo are 
fast approach in it completion. Buddy 
Overend is handling tho tickets and 
seating arrangements. A monster 
pep rally and bonfire will take place 
on Thursday evening from 7 to 8v30 
p. m. Every student Is expected to 
be present and to bring along his 
megaphone.
Because this contest is Pitts homo I 
game, the Carnegie season tickets will I 
not suffice. Tickets may bo obtained I 
at Buddy Overends olllco for fifty I 
cents. Ono must present his rogisJ 
tration card to obtain a ticket.
The tickets may bo obtained every 
lay from 11:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. 
and from 4:30 to 5:30 p. m. No tick
ets can be obtained on tho day of tho 
game. Saturday, as tho office will be 
closed. It Is rtrongly advised that 
students procure tholr tickets early 
as Carnegio was allotted only 2500 
tickets as the registration of tho day 
and night schools totals approximate
ly five thousand students, wo are 
mathematically certain that evory stu
dent will not have ono of tho coveted 
pasteboards on Saturday. Tho wise 
upperclassmen and Plebes will be In 
line early during tho weok.
Tho Carneghv cheering section will 
be in back of tho first base line next 
to the grand stand as In former years. 
Tho players bench and tho kiltie band 
will bo directly In front of our sec
tion.
The pfolinjlnrrv game will see our 
(Continued  on Pago Four.)
QUOTA FOR F 
MEMBERSHIP IS 
ABOUT REACHED
DR. CHARLES HEINROTH TO
GIVE FREE ORGAN RECITALS
GARBER TO PLAY AT 
PITT-TECH DANCE
Will Be Held in Syria Mosque 
Saturday Evening Under 
Joint Auspices
Whethor or not wo boat Pitt next 
Saturday, thero is going to be an In
ter-collegiate danco al. the Syria 
Mosque that night to which student 
from both schools will be Invited. If 
we win, it will sorvo partly as a vic
tory dance; If we loso, It will sorvo 
to help us forget until noxt year. The 
dance is being given by Jan Garbors 
orchestra. Thero Is no point in going 
Into particulars about this, particular 
gang; they aro known wherever Victrola records are played. They aro 
recognized as one of the best orch
estras in tho country, bar none, and 
it is a stroke of good fortune that 
they have been engaged for this par
ticular dance.
Jan Garbor is a brother of Dave 
Garber, of Arts school fame, and this 
may have had some bearing on his 
coming here for that night, although 
Dave hiniBelf has nothing to do with 
the arrangements.
Jan Garber's orchestra ow'es most 
of its popularity to the fact that, be
sides playing good music, they have 
(Continued on Page Two.)
FIRST ASSEMBLY TODAY
IN INDUSTRIES SCHOOL
The first regular assembly of the 
College of Industries will be held this 
morning at 11:30 in Room 104 of that 
building. As the meeting is in the 
nature of a pep rally to work up en
thusiasm for the Camegie-Pitt game 
next Saturday, a large turnout of up
per classmen in addition to all the 
PJebes is expected. The principal 
speaker will be Mr. G. L. Tilbrook, 
secretary of the Alumni Association, 
who will address a few terse remarks 
to the students. Several numbers of 
entertainment have also been ar
ranged. The meeting will close with 
a rehearsal of different yells and 
songs.
The address of Mr. Tilbrook will 
deal primarily with tho coming con
flict with Pitt, Owing to his present 
close connection with Carnegie's grad
uates, he will be able to explain to 
what extent they aro backing the 
Sklbo football team of 1021.
While not promising a program an 
lavish as that of th general assem
bly of last Tuesday, the social com
mittee. offers one that will compare 
in quality If not In size. They have 
secured Eve Spencer who will sing 
several numbers. Grace Broder lie 
will accompany her. Co-starring with 
this team the new Plebe Orchestra 
will appear for the first time with 
some pleasing jazz syncopation. Dick 
Houck will conclude the assembly 
with anouncements of the plan of 
cheering for Saturday.
Arts and Industries Lead the 
Race in Latest Reports  
Science Expected to Ad
vance Soon
$3,000 SET AS GOAL
Its tho third down and goal to go 
in tho Y. M. C. A. Mombershli) Enroll
ment game. With $2,400 of tho $3.000 
sot as tho goal, tho remaining $(>00 
so(;ms rather trivial and can be eas
ily obtained If tho students will come 
across.
Tho committee has worked very 
ardently and Its results are very 
pleasing but just an a football Is not 
over until tho whistle blows neither 
is the *'Yenrollment ovor until tho 
goal is reached.
The reports are not yet complete 
from any or the three schools, but 
Arts and Industries aro way ahead 
of Science. Better step on It sci
ence. The reports this year are far 
In advance of thofio last year and if 
Science School comos through as Is 
expected, the goal will he easily 
reached.
Why be satisfied with Just, roach lug 
the goalwhy not drive right on past 
It? Tho membership Is not quite 50
per cont of tho men registered....let's
raise It. With tho financial lmoklng 
received from the enrollment, tho V" 
Is mapping out a definite program for 
tho coming year. The "Y cabinet, 
met Sunday to discuss theso plnns 
and we aro lod to expect big things 
from tho Y" In the future. Sugges
tion for a big smoker to be held at an 
early date wore favorably met and 
discussed.
Tho "Y officials have boon pleased 
to note, tho growing Interest of tho 
students in tho Institute chapel. Thaj. 
tholr efforts are not in vain Is proven 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Colonel Cunningham 
Retire Nov. First
Sails For France Next Month 
On the Rochambeau
On November first, after twentyeight month of service at Carnegie, 
Lieutenant-Colonel Cunningham will 
bring to an end his activities here as 
Professor of Military Science and 
Tactics, in charge of the Reserve 
Officers Training Corps; and on No
vember 5th he will sail for Havre, 
France, on the French liner Rocham
beau. From there he will proceed to 
Paris to stay for a few days, after 
which he intends to take up a tenr 
porary residence in Orange, in South
ern France. The Colonels purpose is 
to enjoy a complete rest, and to per
mit recuperation of an injury to his 
spine which he suffered while in ac
tual service. If the climate is un
favorable at Orange, he purposes to 
go farther south In France, to more 
suitable conditions. In the spring of 
1920 he plans to return to the United* 
States, to softie down permanently in 
Sheridan. Wyoming.
Colonel Cunningham onlisted rut a 
private In tho United States Army at 
the outbreak of the Spanlsb-Amerlcnn 
War fi) 1808, From that, time until 
15)01 he served as a private, a, cor
poral and a sergeant, respectively. 
During that period he was awarded 
decoration for his Cuban Expedition
ary Service, February 2, 1001, after 
passing a competitive examination, 
he was commissioned as a second 
lieutenant, to be promoted to first 
lieutenant, May 10, 1008, Tn this ca
pacity he served in the Mexican Ex
peditionary Force in li)lfi. under Gen
eral John J. Pershing, during which 
time he received a second decoration. 
After the return from this campaign 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Tho students of tho Carnogio Insti
tute of Technology aro cordially in-1 
vltod to attend the free organ recitals 
which are glvon In Carnogio Music 
Ilall by Dr. Charlos Holnroth on Sat
urday evenings at s' oclock and on 
Sunday afternoons at 4 o'clock.
Dr. Hoinroth, who has just returned 
from a summer In Europe, gave his 
initial recital of this season on Sat
urday aftornoon, October 4.
INVITATIONS TO BE 
SENT TO PARENTS
SCHOLARSHIP 
CUP AWARDED 
TO DELTA MU
Alpha Tau Omega Second 
and Beta Sigma Rho Third 
Winner Averages 432 
P.Q.s PerManForLastYear
RATINGS ANNOUNCED
All Fathers Are Asked to, 
Visit School Saturday 
November 1
A committee composed of vopronohtativos of each fratoni I ty and dormi
tory mot last 'ruosda.y to make plans 
lor the obsomuico of Fathers Day, 
Novombor I. Paul Bowroii, vice pres
ident of tho Intor-fratornlty Council, 
acted as chairman of tho mooting 
which was addressed by Mr, Tilbrook, 
the alumni executive socretary.
Accord In;; to Mr. Tilbrook It In oxpooled that the Fathers Day plans 
will bo similar to those of last year. 
Lot tors of Invitation to tho fathers 
have already been distributed tn. the 
fraternities and dormitories. Those 
leften|, If not already mailed, should 
bo HOnt as soon as possible with a let
ter of ouclosure by each student,
Tho date set for Fathers Day is 
that of the Western Maryland foot
ball gamo. Since' this Is to ho played 
In our own bowl It will be more or an 
at-home affair than If It were to bo 
played at Forbes Field. A block of 
seats for tho fathers will be reserved 
by arrangement with Buddy Overend.
The morning of Novombor first tho 
four schools will be opon for inspec
tion by the students and their fathers. 
Dr. Baker has especially requested 
tho faculty to bo prepared for this 
occasion and to have all laboratories 
open at this time.
Last year a cafeteria, stylo banquet 
was given in the Commons in thG 
evening at the popular price of 50 
conts. This will probably be repeat
ed this year and a committee lias 
been, appointed to work out a pro
gram. After tho dinner it is hoped 
there, will be a play by the Drama De
partment in the Little Theater as 
there was last year.
There will be a headquarters for 
Fathers Day where all fathers will 
be provided with registration blanks. 
Prof. Wurts Is to have charge of the 
details. Dr. Baker has invited the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Last week at General Assembly 
Doan Turboll announced that tho Del
ta Mu fraternity has won tho Interfraternity Scholarship Trophy for 
1923-2-1. Alpha Tau Omega holds soo 
ond honors and Bota Sigma Rln 
ranks third. Tho cup has boon hoi, 
tpr, several years by Bota Thota PI.,
The rating of the Individual frutt'tnltlos Is computed by adding the 
tal number of points of quality ,n. 
cured by all the mombors of oacb !>* 
tornlly and dividing by tho number 
of members in that fraternity. Thla 
tesults In a fair average which shown 
distinctly the standing of tho frater
nity. Eighteen fraternities compris
ing a total of KM men competed for 
tho cup.
AH fraternity men muho a serious 
effort to win this trophy. Though It 
1C undoubtedly Important to have moiv 
prominent In activities In each fra>  
tornlty, It; Is alao nocosuary that those 
who do not so Indulge make up for 
those others In scholarship, More
over, this trophy Is awarded for tin 
scholarship during the whole year and 
11: Is necessary to keep at worli In 
spite of balmy spring days and va
rious temptations.
Tho points of quality secured by 1 
Delta Mu members avorugod 432,20 
or ovor 210 per semester. Alpha Tau 
Omega averaged 31)4.35 and Beta Sig
ma Rho followed closely with an avorago of 893.60. Tho remaining frater
nities stood in tho following order: 
Acacia 385.44, Delta Phi Delta 381.0*1, 
Sigma Epsilon Phi 38.1.04, Delta Chi 
Rho 379.57, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
373.00, Delta Tau Delta 371.94, lot; 
Sigma Delta 308.47, AYoodlawn Club 
303.44, Beta Thota PI 302.12, Sigma Nu 
357.31, Kappa Slgma 350.82, Delta Upsllon 34'!.22, Kappa Sigma Rho 338.00, 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
Prelim. Tickets For 
State Trip on Sale
Five Hundred Tickets Must 
Be Sold to Clinch Trip
FOOTBALL DANCE FOR 
FVENING OF PITT GAME
The regular Saturday night foot
ball dances will be resumed on Octo
ber 25. These dances, held by tho 
Student Council for the benefit of the 
Athletic Association, have proved 
their popularity among the student 
body. On the night of the twentyfifth, however, oven a better attend
ance than those recorded In the past 
Is expected duo to tho fnet, that we 
hope to celebrate our victory over 
Pill, that evening..
Everyone possessing $1.25 and a 
rr-glatratlon card Is welcomed at these 
affairs. Tho Techsons will supply the 
music and the cause In a worthy one, 
two reasons why you should some to 
tho Carnegie Union on tho evening 
of the Pitt-Tech gamo.
The Student Council of last year re
served tho now Gym for tho night of 
tho 1924 Pitt game. The present 
council, however, was forced to alter 
the plans made a year ago because 
of the condition of the floor in the 
new building. Though the location 
has been changed, the other plana are 
being carried out to the letter in hope 
(Continued on Page Three)
The preliminary railroad tlckots 
for the trip to State College on No
vember 8 will go on sale on tho cam
pus this week. They will sell for $2 
and, with $4.20 more, can be ex
changed later on for a regular ticket. 
By a special agreement of tho Athi' 
letic Association with, tho Pennsyl
vania Railroad, return tickets In 
Stato will cost only $0.20, providing 
500 tickets are sold. The preliminary 
ticket 1s necessary In order that the 
Athletic Association will know how 
many tickets will be sold. This spe
cial rate Is much lower than tho rate 
wo had tho last time wo made the 
Stato trip.
Tho success of tho Stato trip de
pends largely on the salo of those 
tickets. Buddy Overond says tho 
Stato trip 1 tho host trip Carnegie 
ovor makes. Tho State campus is one 
of the most picturesque In -the East. 
Btftto College is a small college town 
right hi the center of the farming 
country. It is worth the trip just to 
got an Idea what State College looks 
like.
The specials will leave early in fb'5 
morning, arriving at State in ample 
time for tho gamo. Thoy will leave 
Stato about seven o'clock in the ovenj 
Ing, arriving In Pittsburgh about mid1 
night. It will be one of the most  
eventful days of the year.
The Penn State football game will 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1924
 C&rnep jfoati
Published every week by undergraduates of the Camello Institute of1
Technology under tho Huporvhiion of the Student Coundl.______________________
Entered in the PostoillCQ of Pittsburgh as second-class matter. 
ED1TOR-IN-CHI EfFRED C. SMITH...................................................................Sehenley 0122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
i . D. ItOSSINi T. J. DEMPSEY __________E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Sara Mae Everett, D. A. Gardner, L. H. Harris, Harriot Merwin,
A. F. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS............................................................Sehenley 0102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING .........................................................................................................Sehenley 0070
V. H. SMITH....................................................................................................Franklin G547-J
REPORTERS
Estelle Garibaldi, Wilma Stiner; Carol Folght. Aimoe Pharo, 13. G.
Johnson, IC. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland. C. A. Lundquist, R. L. Lepper, M.
IlollUishead, W. Fenoli, W. Sonkus, I). K. Mims.
A. E. KROGII................................................................................................ALUMNI EOITolt
Assistants.Rosemary McCambrldgo, E. E. Smith, J. M. Goss
,1. CHRISTOFF........................................................................................ATHLETIC EDITOR
arC in tants.........  Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Follor McWilliams
BUSINES8 MANAGER 
W. M. GinSON....................................................................................................Sehenley 9211
** ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. (. WESER.........................................................................................................Sehenley 0122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ.............................................................................................................Hazel 1122
BUSINE8S ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Uarbrow, Lee C. Osborn, J. 
M. Alrgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Hauerle, J. P. Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perrefcon, G. H. Carl. ________________________________________________________________
Tho Editor-in-Chlof is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomea all eommunicationa of student intoreat, if aigned. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news items must be in the student 
post olllco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OflicoRoom R-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.
DORM MENS RECEPTION 
POPULAR WITH WOMEN
ABOUT FOOTBALL
In theso oxciting times oi! the football season it is not unusual 
that wo should be continually talking and thinking of football. In 
connection with football wo have something which we should like to 
get ofi! our chests in regard to a certain type of cheering prevalent 
at the three minor games of tho season. The organized cheering 
under the Hbad cheerleader left nothing to be desired, but a goodly 
portion, of the unorganized yelling was of a type that aroused our 
particular ire. This practice of actually kidding" members of a 
team which is out on the field plugging in the hot sun to place the 
name of Carnegie in the victory column has gained nothing but our 
unqualified disapproval. The hurling of wise cracks at Captain New
man in grotesque imitation of southern dialect is a matter which has 
.failed to affect our sense of humor, which, incidentally, we consider 
normal. This side line coaching, so prominent at the lirst three 
'games, has added no points to the Carnegie scoring columns. Lets 
try to rwnember J;lmt the .quarterback is picked for his position be
cause of ability in. field generalship. Let us attempt to remember 
that we are not yelling merely to let oil some excess steam, but that 
p we are attempting to do our share toward another victory. Think it 
<> over I
The popularity of the receptions 
given by the mens dormitories to 
residents of tho women's dormitories 
wan again demonstrated by the largo 
gathering of women which attended 
the second annual reception given by 
the mens dormitories, last Sunday 
from 2:30 to 4 p. m.
As tho women arrived, they wero 
greeted by Mias Helm, Head of the 
Mens Dormitories, Dr. Baker, tho 
Mens Dormitory Council, a large 
group of notables about school, and 
residonts of tho inon's dormitories. 
After each, of the women had boon' 
properly greeted, the entire assem
blage paascd to the clubroom of Mc
Gill Hall, whore an enjoyable social 
time was had, and refreshmonta were 
served. The McGill Hall clubroom 
was appropriately docoratod with au
tumn foliage.
Englobrecht Hall was opon for in
spection, and appeared very neat and 
homelike, draped with ita new cur
tains which aro being furnlahed to all 
of the reaidents of the dormitories 
who doaire them, at a very low coot 
price.
A continuous musical program was 
furnished during the afternoon., It 
is felt that an apology 1n due the musiciana for having to use tho itiner
ant piano, belonging to the Y. M. C. A. 
club room of Scoboll Hall.
Some of the notables who woro 
present wore: Dr. Baker, Dean and
Mrs. Tarbell, Dean Brown, Colonel 
and Mra. Day, Mr. and Mra. Kirkpat
rick, Mra. Wood-Smith, Mrs. West, 
Mr. and Mrs. Hartman, Mrs. I. W. 
Brown, Mrs. Frances Weaver, MJsa 
Hyde, Mias Gregory, Miaa Spurrier, 
Miaa Winchester, Mias Walker, Miss 
Pollock, Miaa Pattoraon, Miss AnnaHibba, and Mrs. Cranna.
Student Calendar
I
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23
Impel..........................................................................12:20 P. M., Little Theater
,p Rally........................................................................................7 :00, On Campus
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24
Freshman Reception................................................................H-.00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25
Football Carnegie-Pitt ................................................................  Forbes Field
Football Dance............................................................................!:()() L\ M., Union
BATURDAV, NOVEMBER 1
Football--Carnegie-W. Maryland..................................................Tech Bowl
P'atihorB Day ....................................................... All Carnegie
Football Danee,...........................................................................!>:()() P. M., Union
, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, N0YBER fi, (I, 7
hectares -By Walterdoln Mare. .............................................................Campus
ft ATTIRI.) AY, NO VMM BER 8 
(Football Carnogio-Btate  ........................................................ State College
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS CLUD 
HOLDS SUCCESSFUL MEETING
The opening mooting of the House
hold MeonomUm Club was held Wed 
nesdsy, October HKh, al: tho Practice 
Houso.
The meeting was not merely a bus
iness ono, but was rather a welcome 
to the incoming Sophomores, and to 
tho two new faculty members, Miss 
Stone and Miss Hyde.
The constitution, which was begun 
last yoar lvao been completed, and 
was read to the club. Plans for tho 
coming yoar were discuasod.
After the mootingadjourned,. re
freshments woro served, and a social 
time followed.
With such an enthusiastic begin
ning, tho club hopes this year to ac
complish more, socially and educaonally, than it. has in any previous 
aar.
Mr. Da via outllned (he steps n 
oiuiary to solve Ibis problem in ita re 
Juilon toltilo Miio City Water In talco 
a Imthlng beach on th bay, a papor 
plani on th laico uborea, and tho 
ahipplng iiituation in generai.
In invostlgntlng thla matter a Com
pleto atudy of Imcteria conditions in 
th bay und laico,. waa mudo, and 
floats woro usod to determino tho 
probablo courso of tho sowage 0\0v 
consideralo longth of timo.
CIVIL ENGINEERS,HEAR
LECTURE BY MR. D. E. DAVIS
Mr. D. E. Davis, a graduate of Ohio 
State University, now a momber of 
the .T. N. Chester Company of Pitts
burgh delivered an Instructive ad
dress on October 15th to the. members 
of the Student Chapter of the Ameri
can Socloty of Civil Engineers on 
"Methods of Investigation in Sewage 
Disposal Problem at Erie, Pa.
NOTICE
I* The invitations for Father's 
I* Day are in the alumni office now
* and may be obtained by anyone 
J* who will call in for them. Tho
* inter-fraternity council reprosen* tatives from each fraternity are
* asked to see that every member
* of their house sends one home 
*! to his parents. We want this
* thing to go over, and this is one 
-!? means of assuring it.
I* A. J. Wurts of the Welfare DeI* partment is in charge of the ndi* ministration end of the celebra*1* tion and has promised an inter> esting time for nil the fathers
* who come on November 1, 1924.
DANCE--------------------------- Saturday
Marlborough
Pittsburghs Newest Dance Palace
FOKBES STREET, ABOVE MURRAY AVENUE 
Over Renauds Store, Squirrel Hill
7 Blue Ridge Serenaders
Gentlemen 75 cents Ladies 50 cents
Accommodation for 800 danccvs.
ARTS PLAYSWEEK IN THE
WORLDS NEWS
SEE WHAT GOD HAS DONE!
COLONEL CUNNINGHAM WILL
RETIRE NOVEMBER FIRST
(Continued From Page One.) 
on July 1, 191G, Lieut. Cunningham 
was made a captain, and in this rank 
served during tho World War. He 
did not got into the actual fighting, 
having been stationed as an instruc
tor in several different camps in tills 
country, and did not havo an oppor
tunity to reach Franco until June, 
1019.
In' Novomber of that year the 
French government rooponed the cav
alry school at Saumur, and Captain 
Cunningham was ono of two Ameri
can officers dotailed to attend for ono 
year. While ho was there, a horse, 
while Jumping, fell with him; and ho 
has novor fully rocovorod from the 
spinal injuries which ho suffered at 
that time. It is in the hopes of cur
ing this nffllctlon that Mr. Cunning
ham returns to Franco.
Aa a result of tho accident ho was 
retired from active service as a Major 
being elevated to this rank on July 
1, 1920. As a retired officer ho bad 
tlio choice of Professorship of Mili
tary Sclonco and Tactics at a school, 
If desired.
In July, 1922, ns a lloutonnnt-colonel, having boon promoted again Aug 
ust 14. 1921, Mr. Cunningham came 
to Carnogio, succeeding Colonol John 
C. W. Brooks, who now resides in 
Mill Valley, California. TJridor his 
leadership tho R. O. T. C. department 
haa been developed to a higher degree 
than over before, and Is now in tho 
most succossful yoar since its organ Iv.atlon, having an enrollment of ap
proximately throe hundred and sixty 
mom bora.
Aa a meafjago to tho nludonU nt 
Carnegio regarding the Tt. O. T. C., 
Colonel Cunningham said:
"I roall/.o that tho 11. O. T. C. can 
novor be a nuccoim unless tho ntudonta Jit the school like it, support It, 
and recognize that It Is as much a part 
el! tho school us any other depart
ment; otherwise It cannot live." Ho 
appeals to tho students to get back 
of tho movomont and support it.
Colonel Cunningham's successor 
has not been announced yot, but liis 
departure will be noticed and felt by 
many, especially tho military depart
ment. Tho Tartan joins tho student 
body in wishing him tho best of lucl? 
and success in bis quest for the re
covery of his health.
With his usual felicity Mr. Osborne 
brings the curtain down on just tho 
line in a doggerel hymn which gives 
tho play bite. As it left tho author, 
'Chains is a rather stupidly disagree
able example of modern aimless real
ism, a group of quite uninteresting 
people centering in two or three 
equally futile persons whose one 
claim to dramatic interest is that they 
are discontented. Tho author Shows 
no particular vision or insight in her 
presentation. Decidedly the play does 
not road well. That we all enjoyed 
its performance at the Arts Theater 
this week is entirely to the credit 
of tho producer and performers.
The play vfiiti decidedly well put on. 
Staging, costuming and diction com
bined to raise the group several de
grees higher in the economic and so
cial scale than the text indicated. 
Thereby tho situation gained subtle
ty, and we woro spared the sordidness 
of lower middleclass England 
which has of late been overdone as a 
literary motif. Mr. Daniels inter
preted tho young man who is tired be. 
ing a clerk with a definite intention 
which helped tho play greatly. His 
averageness, his ilaahos of longing for 
a more meaningful life, his general 
decency and his incapacity were all 
given with skillful shading. His 
childish weakness under disappoint
ment at the end was made almost 
poignant. ' Miss Mills played the 
young wife very consistently. If at 
first she seomed too pleasing, the gen
tle atubbornesB and self-complacency 
which later situations developed 
quite explained why her husband 
wanted to leave her whole world and 
found it difficult to get away. The 
rest of the group played with excel
lent differentiation of character and 
equally excellent subordination of in
dividual comedy to the needs of the 
play as a whole.
Much of contemporary drama con
sists solely of the comments of Greonwich Village on Main street and vice 
versa. "See What God Has Done ia 
the keynote of both. Main street 
sings it complacently, Greenwich Vil 
lage sings It with satiric bitterness. 
Yes, decidedly it was a stroke of gen
ius to bring this pointless play to a 
point by dropping the curtain on just 
that line. The audience, which was 
having a delightful time gratifying its 
antipathies by recognizing its neigh
bors on tho stage, fully appreciated 
the happy satire of that curtain.
ALLENE GREGORY.
QUOTA FOR "Y MEMBER
SHIP IS NEARLY REACHED
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE }
j PEREGPEREGRINATIONS
The Able McLaughlins, by Marga
ret Wilson. Harper & Brothers, Pub
lishers, New York and London.
Tho Ablo McLaughlins, by Marga
ret Wilson, is tho novel wliich took 
tho Pulitzer Prize for 1923. It. is the 
story of a Scotch settlement in the 
Middle West, nnd Miss Wilsons hu
man handling of tho characters makes 
the story a delightful one. She 
lias given us a vivid presentation of 
tho little Scotch family; its mombors 
are real people, and most charming 
ones at that.
Probably the best character of tho 
book ia Isobol McLaughlin, mother ol' 
tho McLaughlin brood. Miss Wilson's 
portrayal of this woman is poworfui, 
with just that touch of ruggednoss 
which Is found In Isobol McLaughlins 
own nature. Christie McNair, on the 
othor hand, is an aesthetic typo, and 
the bond of friondshfp which springs 
up between those two womon is treat
ed with a tondorness and delicacy 
which could bo omploycd only by one 
who has a very real understanding 
of tho-human emotions.
Miss Wilson's men aro of the ro
bust, pioneer typo: They aro actunl 
men, not puppets in a sentimental 
lovo scene, and they lack that coarse
ness so frequently found iu characters 
of frontier stories.
The book itsolf is beautifully writ
ten. In many places it reads like a 
prose poem, and, at the same time, 
its author has skillfully avoided giv
ing any sense of exaggeration or un
reality.
Tho Able McLaughlins is delight
ful in every sense of the word. It 
leaves a pleasant . taste iu ones 
mouth, so to speak, and one feels dis
tinctly better for having read it.
ALICE 11. MOORE.
The German Loan Oversubscribed; 
Flight of the ZR-3; Mr. Ford and
Muscle Shoals; Death of Brandageo and of Anatole 
Franoe.
The much advertised Dawes plan 
became practically effective with the 
handing over to the Reparations 
Commission of industrial and railroad 
debentures totaling 16,000,000,000 
gold marks and tho completion of the 
800,000,000 gold mark loan to Ger
many. The loan was allotted to nine 
countries, our share being a little 
more than one-half, or $110,000,000. 
Owen D. Young, temporary AgentGeneral for Reparations, announced 
the twenty-five year bonds to open at 
92 with an interest rate of 7 per cent.
Fifteen minutes after the books 
were opened hero they were closed 
with a subscription of five times the 
amount asked and due partly to this 
great over-subscription tho bonds are 
already quoted 2% points up.
o  P *
"Within 83 Hours After the Mer
chandise Left Germany, It Was on1 
Display at Wanamakers. This was 
the startling caption used in the Pub
lic Ledger of Philadelphia on Thurs
day and brought vividly to our minds 
the degree to which we had come in 
air travel. Tho ZR-3, a huge Zep
pelin, 655 ft. in length, and comcommanded by Dr. Hugh Eckner, 
president of the Zeppelin Co., landed 
in Lakehurst, New Jersey, after a con
tinuous flight of 5006 miles. It is part 
of our nations share in the repara
tions toll imposed upon Germany by 
tho Allies. Tho ZR-3 left Friedricshafen, Germany, at 12:35 A. M. on 
Oct. 12, and then proceeding to 
France, Spain, Portugal, Azores, Nova 
Scotia, Boston, and New York arrived 
at the Shenandoah hangar on the 
15th.
R  C
Mr. Ford, with many cryptic com
ments as to the inefficiency of our 
government, in neither accepting nor 
rejecting his bid for Muscle Shoals, 
has withdrawn the offer. That the 
government $5,000,000. The greatest 
about rejecting it is beyond our com
prehension; for Muscle Shoals repre
sents-an investment by the govern
ment of $135,000,000, an estimated 
value of $83,000,000, and a scrap value 
of $11,000,000. Mr. Ford offered the 
government $5,00,000. The greatest 
losers nt present are those who 
bought land at speculators prices and 
expected the values to rise very high, 
# * *
Death, unlike a lot of news, mean 
ofton-times a passing of an old re
gime, a great foi-ce that has ceased to 
be. Tho passing away of Frank Brandegee. Senator from Connecticut, by 
suicide, marks such a change. Sen
ator Brandegee was an "off ox, 
actionary. He voted "No", on all progressive featuresthe Income Tax, 
Direct Election of Senators, Prohibi
tion, Woman'Suffrage, Federal - Reservo Bill, and particularly the League 
of Nations. Tho absence of Ills wit, 
humor and forceful debating will be 
much felt as the Old Guard gradually 
passes.
<> * *>
The loss of a. man of letters of the 
status of Anatole Franco cannot bo 
ostimated. A man who ranked with 
Chateaubriand, Victor Hugo, and Re
nan, the winner of the Nobel Prize 
In literature in 1921, ho represented 
tho spirit of liis Fatherland. As one 
critic says of him, The spirit of the 
race lives in him, the urbnne nnd 
thoroughly civilized tradition of Mon
taigne, which is in tho last analysis, 
tho distinctive contribution of France 
to European literature."
Before long the Freshmen of Car
negie will receive through the regular 
channels the news that their work is 
not as well done as had been hoped 
and as will be expected. Only a very 
lucky few will not receive them. We 
say "lucky few for after all, it is a 
matter of luck whether or not one 
learhs to study while in high school. 
There are, of course, a few who are 
naturally endowed and able to orien
tate themselveB in any new surround
ings where they may happen to fall, 
but those are the exceptions. The 
majority of us mortals are quite baf
fled when any change as radical as 
that from high school to a technical 
college occurs. As we go on, we gain 
assurance and look back upon our 
timidity (which we mistook for hu
mility) with a certain amount of 
amusement and pity. Yet, when we 
graduate, if we are to believe the 
executives in industry, we are in much 
tho same boat that Freshmen in col
lege are.
The truth probably is that no mat
ter how long we continue we will al
ways find ourselves in situation in
volving a good deal of readjustment. 
As time goes on we will find our
selves more flexible in this regard unfil age and conservatism begin to 
overtake us.
To the Freshmen there is this much 
to say: "When you learn that in
stead of. making substantial gains as 
you thought you had, you have really 
been thrown for a loss, you will need 
to realize that just because a man 
has to punt in the shadows of his own 
goal posts that does not mean that he 
has lost the game, it does mean that 
he Is losing. It means that he must 
keep his nerve. It means that he 
must brace up. It means that he 
who plays with over confidence in his 
own ability will almost as surely lose 
as will the man who has no confi
dence at all.
(Continued From Page One.) 
by the increasing attendance of the 
students, and they are choosing with 
great care the men who will address 
tho studentsmen who will influence 
the students so that they will come 
back for more.
In an attempt - to show why we 
should back up the "Y" officials, the 
writer wishes to relate a personal in
cident in which they played the part 
of the "Good Samaritan". They were 
returning from the game Saturday and 
they mot a bunch of the boys in one 
of those "rambling wrecks from Car
nogio Tech. This particular "wreck" 
was thumping along on three good 
tiros, the fourth having "blown-out" j
about two miles down tho road. Thoy _______
Stopnoil ll.o lioys and Ioanoil thorn The ..shmlnR.. is goinB to have  
tholr spnrn tiro which onnblod thorn ; pnrly W111 v0 come, If
(o nut tholr uric" on a rnnnlns bnala I you d0 . ,nve the doull,
"Carnegie is no nursery. Those who 
cannot stand the gaff must seek the 
schools where the pace is less swift. 
At the same time the faculty is not 
nearly as blackhearted as they are 
often painted. They stand as guar
dians of Carnegie degrees. The alum
ni look to them to see to it that a 
Carnegie graduate is not only a gen
tleman or a lady, but is also one 
whose week-end is not his head.
The freshman, or upper classman, 
who is going to give up just because 
he was penalized by the referee for 
offside and thus is forced to the 5- 
yard line should get off the field and 
let a man, perhaps of less ability but 
certainly of more stamina, take hla 
place.
We think but little of the team that 
gives up because the opponents are 
tallying the scores and are getting far 
ahead. The team that receives our 
commendation is the one that is fight
ing all the time, whatever the fortune 
of battle may be. The same thing 
holds true in school life. An "F or 
an "R are bad things to get chalked 
up against you, but the game is not 
over for any player until he is called 
off the field or the game is ended.
Just because those that are now our 
alumni had to "stay with it they/ 
have made the name for the school 
which it now holds in its various 
fields of endeavor. When we have 
passed the teBt, we too will go ottt 
as alumni, aiding in creating a true 
impression For The Good Of Car
negie.
Prof. Hoyle Resigns 
As Head of Print. Dept.
Leaves to Join Editorial Staff 
of Publ. House
Having supervised the opening of 
his department for the year, John T. 
Hoyle, head of the Department of 
Printing, left Carnegie on October 11 
to accept a position on the editorial 
staff of a large publishing house at 
Brockton, Mass.
Mr. Hoyle ranks very high among 
the printers and publishers of this 
country. He has been chief of the 
editorial department of the Interna
tional Correspondence Schools, ed
itor of Grit, managing editor of The 
Fra magazine, and vice president of 
the Roycrofters. While serving in tin* 
fatter capacity, he edited the Com
plete Works of Elbert Hubbard. Tie 
name to Carnegie as a printing in
structor in 1917, and has been head of 
the department for the last five years.
Under the able guidance of Mr. 
Hoyle, and partly because of his influ
ence with the manufacturers of print
ing machinery, the print shop lias 
quite outgrown the quarters originally 
allotted to it, and even now is being 
roarranged so as to occupy the for
mer offices of the Student Health De
partment in addition to tho present 
printing rooms. Much new equipment 
is being installed, all of which was 
contracted for during Mr. Hoyles ad
ministration.
The name of the firm with which 
Mr. Hoyle is now located is unknown, 
as W-n departure was quite hasty. It 
is understood, however,-that he will 
return to Pittsburgh for a short visit 
in the near future, at which time he 
will no doubt bid a more formal fare 
_______ . well to his many friends at Carnegie.
(Continued From Paso One.) So',eri'1 ot tl,,! pres0,,t "'ttrs. , . . in the department having refused topec ted to wrtto tholr names on tags | t offerg ot pi.omotion t0 tlle p0.
given tlipm upon entering. Each ono 1 
will then introduce himself to Ills fel
low classmates.
The reception committee will be as
sisted by members of the Mortar
FRESHMAN RECEPTION
TO BE HELD ON FRIDAY
Board and the Dragon.
sit.ion of department head, Fred T. 
Hartipsn, Assistant to President Ba
ker, will serve as head of the depart
ment In an advisory capacity until 
mail of the calibre which Carnegie 
demands can be obtained,
IN OUR LETTER BOX
PRELIMINARY TICKETS FOR
STATE TRIP ON SALE SOON
(Continued From Page One) 
be one of the hardest games on our 
schedule. We have at last, a fight
ing chance to defeat . State. It will 
give the team a "lotta pep to see 
all the students there, backing them 
with all they have.
SHILLING HOLDS BRIDGE
IN K. B.'S AUDITORIUM
Pittsburgh., Pa.,
October 14. 1924. 
Doctor Thomas S. Baker, President, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Sehenley Park,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Doctor Baker:
T desire to express for myself and 
the other members of the Board of 
Governors of the Pittsburgh Golf Club i 
our appreciation of the assistance rer.-1 
dered by students of the Carnegie In-1 
stltute of Technology last night at the 1
time of the fire in the Golf Club. They 
were most helpful and did a lot of 
hard work in helping remove the fix
tures and furniture from the club, 
and generally conducted themselves 
in a manner which earned the sincere 
appreciation of our Board. I hope 
that through you Ye may thank them.
Yours very sincerely,
THE PITTSBURGH GOLF CLUB, 
WILLIAM FREW,
President.
RASSBACH IS NAMED TO
TO HEAD CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued from Page One) 
structlve effort from his co-workera.
The general chairman of Campus 
Week iB selected in the early fall iu 
order that he may have sufficient time 
in which to outline his work, select 
capable assistants, and to complete 
all the preliminary work before tho 
advent of Campus Week in May.
In electing Phil Rassbach to this 
position the Student Council acted 
upon the recommendations made by 
its special committee and by the 
chairman of the 1924 Campus Week, 
The qualifications, abilities, and pre
vious services of the men under con
sideration were thoroughly examined 
and weighed in the effort to secure 
the most capable man for this im
portant post.
The chairmanship of Campus Week 
will cap for Rassbach an undergrad
uate career of service to Carnegie. 
Phil Rasabach, known to his intimates 
as "Razor, has been engaged in nu
merous activities since his arrival ut 
Carnegie in September, 1921.
He worked with the assistant foot
ball managers during his Plebe and 
Sophomore years, was manager of the  
1924 Carnegie Inter-scholastic Track 
meet. He was awarded his manager
ial "C for this latter work. Tho suc
cessful 1924 Junior Prom was chalrmaned by this same Phil Rassbach.
Rassbach is a Senior in the Metal
lurgical Department of the College of 
Engineering, is a member of tho Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, Delta 
Skulls and Dragons. Phil is at pres
ent managing the student football 
trips, and will begin the preliminary
work on the sixth Campus Week
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dithridge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ..............................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
League of Youth at 6:30 P. M.
That's That
ngnln and to proceod to Pittsburgh 
without any further mishap and with 
n warm spot In tholr hearts for the 
"Y" officials. Such acts pornonlfy the 
qualities and idoals of those affil
iatoli with tho "Y.
GARBER WILL PLAY AT
PITT-TECH DANCE
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
a band of skilled eutortalners. Every 
man In tho crowd is clover in some 
lino or other and the dance program 
is liberally interspersed with comic 
songs and similar hits. Their "So 
Tills Is Venice is a classic in its line, 
nnd if youve never heard it before, 
you will surely appreciate it.
ure of mooting your old friends from 
Tech and helping to make tiio "Shill
ing a bigger and hotter publication. 
Tlio bridge will bo hold on Saturday 
afternoon, November 15. in tho audi
torium of the Kaufmann &. Baor Comj pnny. Tho tickets will bo ono dol| lar each, but you'll hear more about 
that lator. 
date opon.
good time at the dance, maybe it was 
because our kilties furnished some of 
the music, though even they would j have had more pep if the score hadTho following sign In an offlce tool; j been the otber way around. 
my eye the other day and impressed 
me so much that I want to pass it 
on:
You may
Think it over,
Looli it. over,
Read it ovor,
Talk it ovor,
but you are judged by your ability to 
Put it ovor.
Regarding tho game with Pitt next 
Don't forget to keep the I Saturday we have done all of those 
I things mentioned above except put; After the Pitt game next Saturday 
j there will be a dance at the Syria 
Mosque. The Garber-Davis orchestra 
will lie featured and it will bedtime 
and money well spent if you enjoy 
I dancing and good music.
HARRIET MERWIN.ting it ovor. Lot's put that game 
away over on tho credit side of the 
.L R. O. T. C. CADET i bookJl*st remember that we will be
OFFICERS CHOSEN ' Judged as a school not only as to our
_______ football team but as to our sports(Continued Front Pngo Ono.) f monslilp. We can havo a gooil or hail[Troni
willconfined to reputation as a school just accord-fall nnd winter
drill and class room study. Next] 
spring, however, act unl field work! footba11 games. 
Tho assessment for this dance is I will be carried on. the signal corps i
ing to how we handle ourselves at the
$3.30 per couple and the couples 
will be limited to students.
Remember, Jan Garber, Syria 
Mosque, ?3:3C.. October 25.
studying field radio, telegraphy, nnd | The Saturday we spent at Washingtelephony, and the engineering comton last week was enjoyed more by 
pauies studying entrenchments and j Wash-Jeff students than it was by us. 
related work. ! Really though I think we all had a
The fraternity scholarship cup that 
was awarded to the Dolta Mu frater
nity at General Assembly last week is 
a beauty nnd the competition for it 
is pretty strong. The Delta Mu*s 
are to be congratulated upon the 
grade of work they turned in and up
on their good fortune in winning this 
trophy.
First Church cf Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and S P. M. 
Wednesday, S P. M.
Sunday School. 11 A. M.
egi Tchd 
optsuumb ysbbl 
,bTfmu oyTP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
Chew it after every meal
It stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
It makes your 
food do you more 
good. Note how 
fit relieves that stully feeling 
alter hearty catlagv
Whitens ice I la. 
w c e ft c n a 
breath anil 
ifai tile goody

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. OCTOBER 21. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
J0
tPLAID ATHLETICS
BIG PARTY IN NEW 
GYM FOR ALL GIRLS
Women's Athletic Association 
Will Attempt to Arouse 
Interest of Co-eds
Tomorrow afternoon the Women's 
Athletic Association is having a party, 
to which every girl in school is in
vited, yea, even urged to come. We 
want to make this a real year for 
girls athletics, and the sooner we 
get going the better.
One thing only, however, will de
termine whether the year will be a 
distinct success or a dismal failure, 
and that Is the co-operation of each 
and every girl, and the willingness 
with which each does her share. 
However - efficient and painstaking 
the administration may be, the fact 
remains that no athletic activity can 
succeed unless the girls partake in it.
The party will be at 4:30 in the 
womens gymnasium. Halloween dec
orations will add to the attractive
ness, while plenty of amusement will 
be furnished in the way of games. 
There will also be music and refrosh' ments.
The purpose of the party is to . get 
all the girls -together, and to get them 
interested in the doings of the Asso
ciation. For the benefit of the Fresh
men the members of the Athletic 
Board will give short talks on the va
rious sports, the points given for 
them, etc.
Now, girls, we want to see every
one of you on deck tomorrow after
noon.
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
SEE MASTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO 3AT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG 
RI. PASQUINELLI
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
J evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
! Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
I by appointmenL
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
Schenley Coffee Shop 
and Delicatessen
SCHENLEY APARTMENTS 
FORBES STREET
The ideal place for your 
theater party.
We handle the flnest of im
ported and domestic food stuffs.
Just the things you need for 
your next dormitory party.
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DBA WINGOUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc. 
Developing and 
Printing. 
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
 B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
I Schenley Apartments 
j 4010 FIFTH AVENUE j
GET YOUR STUDENT
TICKET NOW AT BUDDYS
OFFICE FOR PITT GAMEOn the Plaid Screen
j EVERYBODY OUT FOR BIG PEP 
RALLY AND BONFIRE THURSDAY
In order that the students do not | 
get "left in the cold in the matter j 
of student tickets for Pitt game, we 
wish to advise that every student go 
to the Graduate Managers Office be
tween 11:30 and 1:30 and between 
4:30 and 5:30 any day this week ex
cept Saturday and secure a ticket. 
All that is required is a registration 
card and fifty cents. Dont delay, for 
the pasteboards are going like hot 
cakes.
J. F. CHRISTOFF
TENNIS CONTESTANTS 
SWING INTO SEMI-FINALS
Favorites were -treated rather 
roughly last week in the annual fall 
tennis tournament. The outstanding 
upset of the past week was the de
feat of George Baldwin at the hand9 
of Perry, 6-4, 9-7. Hardis great stand 
against Kemery might also be consid
ered as an upset. The dope figured 
that Kemery shduld defeat Hardi iu 
straight sets. But shear fight and de
termination on the losers part, forced 
Kemery to 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 before he could 
cop the match.
"Ted Moessner advanced to the 
round before the semi-finals by easily 
defeating Tener, 6-1, 6-3. The match 
was a hard driving affair, with sharp 
volleys and hard services. Moessner, 
apparently, had the edge In every de
partment of play. Greenwood de
feated Sandberg, 7-5, 2-6, 6-1, in a 
tough three set match. Greenwood 
after splitting the first two sets, set
tled down and captured the match 
with ease. It was a case of the bet
ter man winning. This match added 
another notch to the number of three 
set matches played in the tournament. 
Never before in a school tournament 
have so many three set matches been 
played. Baldwin lost to Perry be
cause he could not keep the ball In 
play. George apparently has played 
but little tennis this summer.
Kemery and Van Atta drew hyes 
into the semi-finals. Semi-final 
matches will bo between the winner 
of the Jones-Moessner match and 
Jones and the winner of the PerryGreenwood match and Van Atta. 
These matches will be played this 
week. The best play of the tourna
ment should develop when Jones and 
Moessner mix it in the third round.
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
We Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoes Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG 
Jerry, Manager.
Smiles liit 
^ bacR at
ARE WE DISCOURAGED?
Well say no! The set-back at the hands of the Presidents certainly 
came as a surprise to many who had fondly cherished the idea that we were 
going to trim Wash-Jeff this year. And the only reason we did not trim them 
was that they were a far better team in their encounter against us than 
they had been in previous contests this year. W. & J. deserves all the credit 
in the world for having a lighting, aggressive team. Let us analyze a little. 
Their touchdown was the direct result of a "break" early iu the lirst period 
when Carlins low, hard punt got past Bastian and forced the play near our 
goal line. Oar defense stiffened, however, in the shadows of the goal posts, 
and it was only after being repulsed on two different marches that the third 
culminated in a touchdown. Newman's failure to punt the ball out of 
danger each time was due to the fact that the W. & J. forwards charged in 
fast and hurried the kicks. That is where the game was won. and the home 
team should get all the credit that is due them.
Of course, we blew a wonderful chance to tie the score iu tho second 
quarter, but there is no use crying over the proverbial spilled milk. Though 
it might have put a different aspect on the game, such mistakes as fumbles 
can bo corrected, and will be.
There is only one way to atone for the first defeat of the season. That 
is to PULVERIZE PITT. Thousands of heavy hearts am be made glad, 
thousands'of unhappy faces can be made bright, in only one wayMAKE IT 
7-2 OR BETTER.
; Don't forgot tho big pep rally and 
I bonfire in the Skibo Bowl beginning 
j at 7:30 Thursday evening. Tho Cites 
i have some announcements to make
* regarding the now stunts to bo pulled 
j off against Pitt, and of course yells 
will be rehearsed. Every loyal. Car
negie man and woman should be at 
this pep meeting. Lots go!
PITT AND CARNEGIE
Will clash in various ways Saturday. The dual cross-country meet will 
be staged either in the morning or early in the afternoon, with the chances 
favoring the latter time. So if you are iu the stands at Forbes Field and 
suddenly behold a dozen or more scantily clad athletes trot through the gate
way do not be surprised. It will only be Dykoman, Corbett and others who 
are less famous. The Plebes will meet the strong Pitt yearlings iu a prelim
inary game to the varsity contest. The Pitt Freshmen are picked to win, 
but they were also picked as sure winners last year,, while the best they 
could do was get away -with a tie score. After the Freshmen are through 
with their argument will come the fireworks.
It is unnecessary to comment upon this titanic struggle. Those who wit
nessed the spectacle at Forbes Field which made history last year know all 
about it. Those who did not will find out soon enough.
PEAK OF SEASON 
REACHED SATURDAY
PLEBES LOSE TO W. & J. 
FRESHIES IN HARD GAME
Pitt Game Will be Bitter 
StruggleBoth Teams 
Primed For Clash
It seems to be the concensus of opinion among the students, from what 
the writer has been able to discern, that the cheerleaders worked the cheer
ing .body too hard at Little Washington. There is a limit to human endur
ance, and for the cheer leaders to be continually asking for cheers without 
any let-up is too much. The students claim better, results could bo secured 
by having a little rest between cheers.
Purl Anderson and Ben Kristof certainly took good care of tho loft side 
of the line. Our coaches hail been advised that Wash-Jeft directed four out 
of every five plays at the opponents left tackle. They did not do it Sat
urday, however, for they met a stone wall there.
According to the Pittsburgh papers Wally Steffen, was pleased with tho 
showing of our "green team. That may be true, but we have a lurking sus
picion that Wally really expected to win this game and was somewhat dis
appointed, the same as the rest of us.
Pitt has a large, well-illuminated sign reading, Boat Tech," in a conspiclous part of their campus. Why could we not have a similar sign placed 
on tho Machinery Hall tower or somewhere?
WHO WILL BE THE CITY CHAMPIONS NEXT SATURDAY?
WASH-JEFF TOO MUCH
FOR PLAIDSCORE IS 10-0
Damon s 
Whats the matter?
Cant you read your 
notes of the lecture? 
Pythias
Nodoggone it. I 
skipped over to class 
this morning without 
my Dixons Eldorado I
17 leadsc 11 dealers
jYeOldeS
'tie waster thawing pencil
jYeOlddSc h nylLu
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
(Continued From Pago One) 
negie end run, for although Bastian 
did not make considerable gains, and 
the few made were all undor eight 
yards.
In the last quarter Washington and 
Jefferson tried and completed several 
forward passes. One pass good for a 
gain of 15 yards and another for 21 
yards put the ball on Carnegies 10- 
yard line, where tho Presidents found 
themselves brought to a standstill, so 
on the fourth down Roeso dropped 
back and booted over a field goal from 
a difficult anglo of the fiel'd.
Carnegies line, and especially Kris
tof, Anderson and Yoder, showed up 
well against tho famous well-coached 
line of Morrow, but it was on account 
of this strong line of tho Presidents 
that the Plaid was checked the three 
times it was in the shadow of WashJeffs goal line.
The game certainly caused a great 
deal of excitement and the loyal root
ers have played It over sevoral times 
since. S'ome talk was overheard that 
the team could have played better, 
but we must remember it was playing 
one of the best teams in tho district, 
and as Carnegie Tech is not tho 
school to make alibis, we can all say 
we went down fighting from the last 
man on the team to the ardent rooter. 
The.best thing the game did for us 
was tostir up our wrath which will 
be taken out on the Panther next 
Saturday.
The lineup:
Carnegie0 W. & J.10
Mefort................ L. E....................Boynton
B. Kristof.'------- L. T..................Clements
Anderson..........L. G............................Ride
Manby.................... C..............................Bliss
Cass.................... R. G.........................Lewis
Yoder................ R. T...............Berreshem
Hable.................. R. E...........................Wild
Bastian................ Q............................Reese
Newman (C.).. L. H......................Futhey
Wertenberger. R. H. ......................Carlin
Beede.................... F.........................Haddon
Score by quarters:
Wash-Jeff ........................0 7 0 310
Substitutions: CarnegieGoodwin
for Mefort, Guthrie for Kristof, Har
mon for Wertenberger, Donahoe for 
Bastian, Wash-JeffKopf for Futhey.
TouchdownHaddon.
Goal from fieldReese.
RefereeA1 Sharpe (Yale). Um
pireJ. H. Moffatt (Princeton). Head 
linesmanJ. H. Clinton (Yale).
Time of periods15 minutes.
M. M. GIRLS TAKE OVER 
CUPID'S ARCHERY JOB
The Maggie Murphs have begun 
classes to outdo Dan Cupid in nrchory. 
The girls have been taking instruc
tions in the art (?) of shooting ar
rows with bows, and they are getting 
quite good. One bright obsorvor said 
that the plnn would work bettor if 
the girls wore Arrow Collars and Bow 
Ties, but this uniform is not yot auth
orized for tho classes. Many Boaux 
have been out watching the work.
This ancient and venerable sport 
has been dug up and included In tho 
curricula of many of tho Eastern 
Girls colleges, and that moans that 
Carnegies Lassies will have to keep 
In tho running by stepping out with 
bowsdifferent from the usual typo 
and hitting the targot right in tho
10 ring.
This recalls the little quip by Bill 
Sliakespoaro or Alf Tennyson, or 
some other bard,
I shot an arrow Into tho air.
It fell to earth, I know not whore, 
Anr furthermore, I do not caro.
SCHOLARSHIP CUP
AV/ARDED TO DELTA MU
(Continued From Page One)
Pi Kappa Alpha 333.51, and Theta Xi 
323.75.
Delta Mu is to be congratulated but 
the members of the other fraternities 
should resolve to work for the cup 
this year and not to forget about it 
until next fall.
-----------------------------------
INVITATIONS TO BE
8ENT TO PARENTS i
!
I !COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
(Continued From Page One) 
trusteos to visit the school at this 
time. Many of them have not been 
on the campus for several years and 
it is hoped that these will make a spe
cial effort to come.
Remember the date is November 1 ; 
and if you have not already invited | 
dad, the time is short and you must 
mail that letter promptly, so that he I 
may be able to make arrangements ! 
to come.
STEADY
WORK
FOR
100
Tech Students
Hand in Your 
Name 
to Employment 
Secretary
Attend Meeting 
Thursday 
at 4.30 P. M.' in 
Room 115 
Central Building
Pittsburgh Thrift 
Company
The yearly clash between the foot
ball teams of Carnegie. Tech and the 
University of Pittsburgh promlsos to 
bo the high spot in Pittsburgh sport 
lifo this fall. Already comparod to 
the Yale-Harvard classic of the East 
in its local intoreBt and drawing pow
er, tho game listed for Forbes Field 
next Saturday should be better at
tended and of even greater interest 
than usual.
In tho first place the Plaid has al
ready demonstrated a capable scor
ing machine in its earlier games. Pitt 
on the other hand is reputed woalcer 
than the great team of last year, 
which although bowing to Carnegie 
yot humbled Penn State 22-3. Sec
ondly, the victory of the Sklbos last 
year came as something of a surprise 
to even tholr most" ardent followers, 
but having once established tho pre
cedent. tho title will not - bo relin
quished oaslly, and many who last 
year ooncoded Carnogio not a chance 
will bo watching this year in antici
pation of another victory.
The rocords of tho two teams so 
far this year offor llttlo by way of 
comparison, as entirely dlfleront 
typos of opposition lmvo been mot. 
Pitt has dofoated Grove City and 
West Virginia, at homo, displaying un
expected strength in tho lattor game, 
but lost to Lafayette 10-0. Last Sat
urday; Johns-Hopldns succumbod to 
tholr attack, tho Baltlmoro institu
tion proving no match for tho Pan
ther. However, In tho samo period 
Carnogio Tocli liaB boon returned tho 
victor ovor Dayton, (which last week 
easily defeated Duquosno), Thiol, and 
Toledo, running up a scoro of R4-0 on 
tho last named, but losing to W. & J.
Tho Presidents wore able to dofoat 
tho Tartans hy a margin of ton points 
It, Is true, but tho Rod and Black team 
this fall Is ono of tromondous driving 
powor and according to many should 
also humble tho uroiul Panthor.
Whatever tho rospoctlvo strongth 
of tho citys two big rivals, It is a 
forogono conclusion that Saturday's 
I gamo will bo closo and oxcltlng. No 
j Pitt team ovor played tho Plaid wlth( out roallzlng tho strongth of tho Car
nogio fighting spirit, which dooms ohj staclos of no account. Tho Sklbos 
will be outwolghed, as usual In tholr 
big oncountors, but intend to offsot 
j that by tholr speed and football 
 'brains, ouch as all Stoffon-coachod 
I toams aro notod for. Tho lack of 
Tartan substitutes may work harm 
to Carnogio but tho oxcollont condi
tion of tho regulars has done much 
to mlnlml/.o this worry so far.
Bo all this as it may, tho Plaid has 
a chanco of winning from the Panther 
and that is all that Is askod. Both 
teams are pointed for this gamo, and 
although Carnogio has triumphed but 
once In ten ongagomonts, It is certain 
that ForbeB Field will bo filled to ca
pacity Saturday, with fully half of 
tho spectators hoping for, if not ex
pecting, a Plaid victory.
MUSICAL CLUB'S STUNT
TRYOUTS NOVEMBER 2
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
a collar and tie suitable to that form 
of dress, and the picture will bo 
faked.
Manager Lundqulst has booked four 
concerts in the near future, two In 
November and two in December, and 
he is trying to get a couple more for 
the period before the Xmas holidays, 
for the spirit of the clubs depends 
upon these early performances. The 
two long trips are being booked grad
ually, and the plan is to take one in 
January, and one in February. The 
Home Concert is definitely set for 
the evening of March 27th, and will 
be held in the Music Hall.
There Ih great agitation in the 
i ranks of the Clubs concerning a pos' sible joint concert of the Glee and 
| Musical Clubs of Pitt, W. & J. and 
i C.I.T. This plan is quite feasible and 
I it is agreeable to the members of the 
| three school who have been ap
proached concerning the matter. 
I Plans will be made in the future to 
make this a real thing. Ono of tho 
downtown newspapers plans to make
this a competition and to award a 
cup for the best club.
FOOTBALL DANCE FOR
EVENING OF PITT GAME
(Continuer From Page One) 
of making thaodanc tho blggest and 
bost yet. An added Incentive to 
Ihono in chargc In glvon by th alumnl, many of whom wlll return to wlt* 
nomi tho tussle wlth our 'tradLlonal 
opponcnt.
Craig Restaurant
The place v/here all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Playing a brand of football they 
have not displayed so far this year 
tho Carnegie Tocli Plobos hold the 
heavier Wash-Jeff Fro oh men to one 
touchdown. The gamo was the 'first 
preliminary gamo to a varsity gamo 
that has been played on College Field. 
Man for man tho Red and Black Fresh 
greatly outweighed tho Plebes, but 
the ilghtlug spirit of tho Tartans was 
aroused to such an oxtent, that tho 
vice presidents were fortunate to hold 
their meagor lead.
Tho first two periods were score
less, and in the third period a W. & 
J. punt got away from Grosskloss and 
was recovered by a Plaid griddor on 
their own five yard line. Weaver was 
hurriod In kicking and got off a very 
poor punt, the ball going out of 
bounds on tho 20-yard line. Here 
tho Frosh made a first down, and wore 
hold for four downs on Carnegie's 
seven yard line. In playing the last 
down, Norman started around right 
end. Red Langfltt broke through the 
interference and nailed the runner 
for a loss, only to watch Norman got 
up and revorso his field for a touch
down. Helsel then kicked goal.
This technicality would have boen 
enough to talco tho heart out of any 
team, but uot tho Plobes. With "Dear 
Old Tech" ringing In their oars they 
assumod the offensive and brought 
the ball to tho W. &. J. goal lino only 
to bo repulsed. . Towards the mlddlo 
of tho Inst quarter they spread their 
formation and Bhot forward passes to 
all parts of tho lot, many of which 
wore complotod. With tho entrance 
of Grosskloss into tho gamo they 
marched down tho field onco moro 
within tho shadows of tho enomys 
goal posts. Tho end of tho gamo was 
nonring so Sobastlan callod a paas. 
Hobb threw tho ball ovor tho goal 
line, and as tho ball gra/.od the out
stretched fingors of Langfitt tho whis
tle blow, onding tho gamo.
Although outwolghed tho Ploboa 
muflt bo commondod on tholr .oxcol
lont oxhibltlon of football dlsplayod 
laat Saturday in Little Washington. 
Captain Woavor, sLsWnrS and Langfitt 
played tho most consistent and bril
liant football for tho Plobos, while 
Holsel and Norman wore tho wlnnoro' 
bost performers. Tho lineup;
Carnogio Tooh0 W. & J.7
Langfitt............. L. 13.....................Grimm
Allen.................. L. T.....................Pauley
Comack............. L. G..................Malcolm
Neff......................... C...................Hamilton
Johmion........... It. O...............Oallaghor
Marshall........... R. T......................Douds
Woavor.............. R. IS...................Iforrold
Sebastian......... Q. II......................llolsol
Moorohoad.... L. IT..................Norman
Sohauchoncy.. R. II...........................Day
Ho an.................... F. B................Morrison
Scoro by periods:
Carnogio Freshmon ... .0 0 0 00 
Wash-JolT Freshmon .. .0 0 7 07
Substitutions  Carnegie Tooh,' 
Orosklofis for Moorohoad. Tout.lidownNorman. Goal from touch
down-HWsgWs.
RefereeBaird. UmpireSlack.
Head linesman....Wymnrd. Time of
quarters10 minutes.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
THE FRATERNITY 
OF b USINESS
Befrfn now to form tho nsaoclntlonn 
and habits tlint will nerve you when 
you enter tho buHlnewi v/orld. A 
hunk account, nlde from the tan
gible value, fumlflhcH experience 
and contacts which will operate to 
your advantage in lat/.-r yeara.
The peraonal lnterent of Mellon of
fice in the financial welfare of 
depoHltoro in ono of the outstanding 
characteristic!) of tho institution. 
Our experience and business Judg
ment are at your service.
Capital and Surplus 
$13,000,000.00
Mellon National Bankittsbujjr^h. Pa.
TARTAN HARRIERS 
MEET PITT SAT.
Plebe Runners also to Open 
Season This WeekGood 
Showing Expected
During the last six weeks, football 
has had the distinction oC being tho 
ono topic of conversation around tho 
campus. Cross-country is now de
manding its sharo of student interest 
as tho second nationwide fall sport 
established at Carnegie.
Tho team may bo soen after 4:30 
any afternoon at tho foot of Flagstaff 
Hill, whore tho dally practice ses
sions usually start. Tho course includoB many of tho bridlo-paths of 
Schonlcy Park and terminates across 
from the Industries building, from 
whence tho start was made, after a 
long final run ovor tho golf course. 
Tills route is recognized to bo one of 
tho most difficult In tho East, and at 
the present time itis in very good 
condition. The big feature of tho 
courso Is tho long slow grade up Pan
thor Hollow from the lako to tho 
Darlington road entrance.
The varsity team bids fair to sur
pass those of several years back. 
Freshman track and cross-country 
toams of laat year brought out sorno 
good material from which great things 
aro expected, and four lottop-men of 
last years team have roturned.
Tho first moot of tho year will bo 
tho Pitt moot which is to bo held 
noxt Saturday. The race will either 
bo run in tho morning or during tho 
football gamo in tho early afternoon: 
the runners finishings at Forbos Field. 
Pitt is known to havo ono of tho fast
est teams In tho trl-stato district and 
tho Carnogio harriers wlll havo tholr 
hands full.
Captain "Howdy' Dykoman liaa 
boon loading tho Hold by almost a 
quarter of a nvllo In tho tryouta, and 
a now rocord sn looked for noxt Sat
urday. Jack Bright has improvod 
groatly since last fioaaon, and lmB 
boon placing aocond very consistent
ly. Tho roat of the nquad havo boon 
changing places so rapidly that tholr 
order of finishing become pnro 
guoaaworlc. They aro: lihvlng, Lock
hart, Do Joans, Klmmoll, Peck, Lustonborgor, Follor, Himes, Uonko, Pa
lumbo, McKinney, Ilarrlaon, Rhodes, 
and several others.
Coach Guy Ilalferty plans to start 
as many as poaalblo In tho moot noxt 
Saturday. Tho first live who finish 
aro tiyi only runnora who count In 
the scoring for the Plaid.
Tho Freshmon havo boen practicing 
just as faithfully ua tho varsity and 
some very good men have dovolopod. 
Crawford, Hoboy, ICorah, Sponsollor, 
Reuben, Woavor, being among tho 
foremost. Thoro are several othorn 
who aro rapidly Improving and will 
make a strong bid for the team.
Manager Curtis Colvin has nrrungod 
the following Freshman schedule:
October 23Sacrod Heart High 
School.
November 1Shadysldo Academy.
November 8....Penn State Fresh
man.
November lf> -Pitt Froahman.
More candidates for both tho Var
sity and Freshman teams aro desired. 
Past track experience la not In tho 
least essential. "Howdy" Dykoman, 
when a Plobo, camo out for crosscountry Just for oxorclso.
1C. Du n lope"What do you mean by 
tolling Mary Margaret that Im a 
fool.
10. Thorno"Heavens! Im sorry
I didnt know It was a secrot.
ELUXENffiElSG
CLOTHES FOR TUB COLLEGD MAN
The FLY-FRONT COAT
wvWFV shouldered, easy
hangingtheir conservatism 
proclaims their 'smartness.
Cut in lightweight and winter 
weight woolens in patterns 
approved by college men.
*3450 to H9:0
VOL LUXENBERG ec .XINo 
5CA RXIOEGOST Nbw UIXF
jTNext Showing at j
\ WILLIAM PENN HOTEL C 
 November 14 and 15
Olir alyle memo. book wmt fre< on nqtutot
] i
C EGGINlTL tOlcdlsk
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlav/n
I ^ --------------------------------------------------
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store

---------------------------------------------------

- PAGE)FOURrHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1924
PechnolopALUMNI PAGE
CLAN BEGINS BIG 
YEAR WITH DANCE
Miss America Present; Clan 
Office Established; Elec
tions Held
CLAN NEWS
Mrnt and fpromoHt, the PMladol* 
phla Clan greets ovory Carnoj;lo utu(lent In hio offort to further the B.ojU 
BonB activities for its Alma Mator.
This Clan Is wideawake in JU or
ganization to round up all tray Car
negie men and women In thin vicin
ity, and in its loyalty For Tho Good 
of Carnegie.
Tho ilrst call to tho Clansmen for 
a gathering this season brought; an 
even mixed two dozen to a full course 
dinner, business meeting, and dance 
at tho Rittonhouso, -Saturday even
ing, October 11th.
Vico President. L. T3. Bxllno, re
viewed the history of tho Clan for tho 
benefit of tho now members, while 
President, Paul Bmmel, presiding over 
the meotlng, outlined the year work 
and appointed ' throo Important com
mittees, viz: One for publicity, ono
for entertainment, and ono for now 
member reception.
Upon tho resignation of Miss Doro
thea Steinmacher as Becrotary and 
treasurer, John 8. Clcklng was elect
ed to succeed to that office.
Other business included tho estab
lishment of a permanent Carnegie 
Philadelphia Clan oillco, with a list
ing in tho telephone diroctory. By 
referring to tho Clan Directory, any 
visiting Clansman should readily get 
in touch with that office or with tho 
secretary.
Girl Clansmen about Philadelphia, 
you are especially invited to attend 
our social functions. A new district 
diroctory will soon be outLets got 
on it, ono and all.
Tho next regular Chin mooting, 
which is hold on the first Saturday 
of every month, will fall on ITallowoon, and tho entertainment committee 
will soon announce tho program for 
that evening. J'dncouraging to ay, tlio 
tariff at these social affairs Is limited 
to about two dollars.
Those present nt tho lllttonhouso: 
John Androwii and guest, Mr, and 
Mrs. R. B. Gold ran, Ruspoll Davis 
Paul W. HJmme.l, Mr. and Mrs. L. Ifl, 
ISxllne, Mr. and Mrs. John H. Fergu
son, John Glclclng nnd friend, Paul 
IIoniMo, A. S. Hines, C. T. Moyers mid 
guest, Wm. Miller, Malcolm Orr, Dor
othea Steinmacher and guost, Kathe
rine Hayes, Doctor Sryrl and friend, 
and Reginald Ward, Miss America 
was also present; at the dance, al 
though not a guost of the Clan.
LOS ANGELES CLAN
The Los Angeles Clan are at thelr 
festlyltles in regulr fahlon. They 
hold a dlnner-dauco at the Turklsh 
Village. Thero woro ilfteon Carnegie 
men and womon present, and overypno is reportod to havo liad an excollent tlmo.
Ono of those prosont sald o tho 
party, "Although the crowd was 
mnall, wo had a wondorful time, Jots 
of "atn)osphoro, but poor vontllatlon.
TheClan wishes to congratulato 
"OhuoU Charles, 'io, upon tho re
cent arrival of a daughter in the 
Charles family ; Paul W. Iflmmol on 
tho apponrumio of a Paul W., Junior 
John IT. Forgunon, on his nmn'lsge to 
Adda M. Lut/., a Philadelphia lawyer.
Address all olan new or new 
I to ini to Ih Alumni Editor, Corneal 
Tartiin.
I Oakland Savings & | 
Trust Co. ;!;
TARTANS EAGER FOR
VICTORY AGAINST PITT
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Plobos tackle the Panther Cubs. Un
der Jimmy Andersons intensive drill
ing tho Plobos have rounded into ex
cellent form nnd expect to set tho 
example for tho varsity by recording 
a convincing win over the highly 
touted Panther Yearlings. This game 
will start promptly at 1 oclock, to bo 
ready for the Varsity game, the kickoff of which will take place at 2:30.
To date we have played six football 
games with tho Panthers. The first 
five times, from 1914 to 101.9, inclu
sive, saw our colors downed. In 1919 
the game was Interrupted several 
times by riots caused by friction be
tween the students of tho rival 
schools. Athletic relations wero Im
mediately completely severed by the 
Athletic Council. It was not until 
last yoar, four years later, that pub
lic demand caused the authorities of 
each school to get together and bury 
the hatchet. Wo won the game, scor
ing our first varsity football victory 
over Pitt. That was under Captain 
Jimmy Robertson. Jimmy will be 
thoro this yoar heart and soul, fight
ing for tho team by means of cheer
ing, Ho appreciates how cheoiing 
helps tho toam to give their best nnd 
greatest' efforts. So let every student 
bo thero, to aid Jimmy cheer on his 
former mates. We have always outcheered Pitt although outnumbered 
by many hundreds. This year the 
Panther is out to revenge tho humil
iating defeat suffered a year ago. 
Every mnn and co-ed of that institu
tion will bo backing their team. Come 
on, Carnegie, lot's outgame them.
A monster pop rally nnd bonfire 
will take place at the athletic field on 
Thursday evening from 7 to 8: 30 p. m. 
Iflvory studont should show tlielr loy
alty by attending. Procure a mega
phone, which are for sale on tho 
campus. Al MlnettI will load the 
yells and songs and announce the 
final details. The Cites havo boon 
working on several Innovations In tlio 
way of stunts and expect hearty co
operation from ovoryono. Lots show 
Pill, the Cltos boforo we boat, them.
Honor Insurance Man 
Makes Good in Tulsa
Insurance School Graduate 
Now General Manager
NIGHT GRADUATE 
MEMBER OF FIRM
Tho services of another Carnegie 
man have been recognized by tho 
business world. Loren D. Stark, 
known as a go-gottor among his fellqjp business men, has established an 
enviable record as manager of the 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, office of tho Ameri
can Life Insurance Company of De
troit, Mich., a position which he has 
held less than a year.
Stark came to Carnegie and entered 
the 'School of Life insurance Sales
manship In 1921, after having won a 
Bachelor of Sclenco degree from 
Northwestern University at Chicago. 
Ho graduated with honors from this 
school in the spring of the same year.
Tho following yoar, Star, although 
only twonty-flve years of age, re
ceived tho appointment of first di
rector of tho life insurance depart
ment of the Oklahoma State Univer
sity and under, his guidance the new 
department was a success. However, 
ho had the urge to get Into business 
so ho went to Tulsa, whore lie en
tered tho services of tho American 
Life Insurance Company.
SZOLD IN ALA. AT 
LITTLE THEATRE
Bernard Szold, a graduate of the 
Drama Department of Carnegie Is 
$ow director of a Llttlo Theater in 
Birmingham, Alabama. A Little 
Theater 1n to provide an opportunity 
for community expression in the sev
eral arts connected with drama. Many 
of these organizations aro springing 
up throughout the country, this one In 
Birmingham although but two years 
old can point with prkle to the very 
artistic sotting it has procured for 
its patrons. Tho season opens tho 
weolc of October 12, with Bernard 
Soldz and his talented cast in 
Rollos Wild Oats, a doilghtful com
edy.
FIRST ISSUE OF SHILLING TO
BE ISSUED NEXT MONTH
(Continued From Pago One.) 
can at least subscribe to the maga
zine nnd can como to tho bridge.
For there is going to bo a Shilling 
Bridge In tho auditorium of tho Kaufmann & Baor Company, on Saturday 
aftornoon, November 15. Thoro wont 
bo a varsity football game that day, 
and youll ho reminded of tho brfdgo 
again, no that you can havo your dol
lar ready when the tickets go on sale 
In tho Margaret Morrison and Doslgn 
schools.
Consulting Engineer With 
Pittsburgh Company a 
Football Fan
After following Carnegies fortunes 
for the past eighteen years, thero is 
no doubt that a great deal of satis
faction will be experienced by a grad
uate who strolls about the campus to
day and compares scenes and condi
tions now with what they were when 
he first joined the small band of Car
negie followers.
When John F. Laboon entered Car
negie In 1906, little was there known 
of this school in the educational 
world. Little did anyone then think 
that in such a short time that our 
school would take a standing among 
the leading scientific schools of the 
country, or that our football team 
should rise from obscurity to their 
prosent fame.
Today Mr. Laboon not only enjoys 
the changed status of his Alma Ma
ter ib the educational field and the 
fame of her football achievements 
but he has a hand in the shaping of 
her policies by being president of the 
Athletic Council and the Science 
Board of Governors, also vice presi
dent of the Alumni Federation.
Mr. Laboon has been quite success
ful in his business both during his 
schooling and since graduation. When 
he entered Night Prep School in 190G 
he was employed by a private engi
neer in city survey and allotment 
work in the field corps and as a 
draftsman with whom he remained 
until 1909. During this time Laboon 
transferred to the regular night 
course. From 1909 to 1912 he was 
employed by the Wabash Railroad as 
a draftsman on maintenance of way 
and new construction work. In 1912 
he graduated from the night course. 
He then proceeded to take two years 
post graduate work and in 1914 re
ceived his Bachelor of Science de
gree in Civil Engineering and later his 
professional degree in 1919.
After graduation in 1912, Laboon 
branched out in a different field of 
work. He becamo connected with 
the Chester Fleming Company as a 
draftsman and assistant engineer. 
Their field of work was confined to 
wator works, sewago systems, and 
sewage disposal plants.
With three years of experience to 
ills credit, Mr. Laboon became chief 
engineer in charge of construction de
sign of water works structures of the 
Pittsburgh Filtor Company In 1915.
Remaining with this company un
til 1918, Mr. Laboon then became n. 
member of the firm of J. N. Chester 
Engineers, with whom ho is now con
nected. Their work being mainly
Dramat, 24, Produces 
Play For Convention
Harry Hamilton of Campus 
Week Fame is Author
TELESCOPE
At last an "all Pittsburgh play is 
to be produced and Carnegie has the 
honor of claiming the author. The 
play was written by Harry Hamilton, 
a graduate of the drama department 
last year. It is to be performed at 
Syria Mosque, October 29, 30 and 31, 
where it will be a novel feature of 
the seventh annual convention of the 
Direct Mall Advertising Association.
Harry Hamilton, the author, re
ceived an A. B. in playwriting last 
year,- and is already known as the 
author of several successful plays. 
The Direct Mall Advertising Asso
ciation was somewhat familiar with 
his words, and engaged him for the 
play which he wrote during the sum
mer. It is a three-act comedy based 
on a humorous angle of the direct 
mail idea. The plot centers around a 
musical comedy star, widow of the 
late president of the Direct Mail Ad
vertising Association. She is left in 
charge of her husband's affairs and 
her business relations are skillfully 
interwoven with a delightful love 
story.
Chester Wallace, head of the drama 
department, will be the director, and 
the cast will be composed of members 
of the drama department. Mary 
Brown, Verner Haldene, and Hardie 
Albright will play the leading roles, 
while minor parts will be played by 
Ellsworth Perrin, Phil Thorn, Clarita 
Stevens, ITerb Polesie, Robert Alderdice. Ina Kraus, Zabelle Davis, John 
Ford, and Joe Wadsworth.
Three performances will be given 
in the Little Theater. There will be 
a matinee and evening performance 
Friday, October 31, and a matinee 
performance Saturday, November 1. 
It is expected that Harry Hamilton 
will Arrive in Pittsburgh soon enough 
to assist Mr. Wallace In directingthe 
play.
sewage and gnrbage disposal plants. 
They also act as Consulting Engi
neers on water works and sewage sys
tems.
Having made a study of the con
struction of football fields at several 
of the largest stadiumB in the United 
States, Mr. Laboon used his informa
tion and experience to design the 
present Tech field drainage system 
which has changed the field from a 
mud hole to tho present solid and 
durable turf we havo today.
Mr. Laboon has enjoyed a liberal 
amount of success in both his school 
work and business. His keen inter
est in the school lias made him an 
outstanding figure among the present 
alumni.
WE POINT WITH PRIDE TO:
1. The conduct of Carnegie stu
dents at the Golf Club fire (in 
Our Letter Box).
2. Last Saturdays game fight 
against odds.
3. The establishment of a perma
nent Clan Office" in Philadel
phia,
4. The progress of the Carnegie, 
not Tech campaign.
5. The conduct of the majority at 
Little Washington.
We have been asked why this col
umn is named as it is. While we were 
trying to think up a correct answer 
some wag suggested: Because it
is Something to look through. That 
is not the true reason however, we 
called it The Telescope because we 
strive through that to keep in touch 
with the doings of our alumni. They 
are far apart and a bigger telescope 
would often come in handy.
The establishment of a permanent 
clan office in Philadelphia is an event 
that should be and will be hailed by 
all Interested in the furtherance of 
Carneg'ies fame. Philadelphia's Clan 
is setting up an office, which will 
have a regular telephone number at 
which visiting and local Carnegie men 
and women may meet. The office will 
fill a long felt need. Incidentally it 
should serve to silence those, if there 
be any more such, that believe the 
clans are useless because of their in
activity. Here, at least, is one that 
is not inactive, nor is the Philadelphia 
Clan the only one that keeps itself 
busy.
We have been asked to announce 
the following changes in the Clan di
rectory:
St. Louis Clan 
Treasurer, Nelson O. Rice. 
Secretary, M. A. Zeller.
Philadelphia 
President, Paul W. Emmel, 5710 N. 
7th street.
Vice president, L. E. Excline, 213 
47th street.
Secretary and Treasurer, John S. 
Gicking, 220 16th street.
Carnegie Philadelphia Clan Office 
542 Real Estate Trust Building. 
Cleveland Carnegie Womens Clan 
President, Mrs. Eleanor Clark 
Speaker.
Vice President, Jean Grey. 
Secretary and Treasurer, 
Catherine M. Allan, 622 E. 
street.
Miss 
124 th
From Philadelphia we receive the 
little news item which follows:
Red Street, '09, architect, is head
ed overland for Portland, Oregon, 
where he intends establishing him
self in business.
RUDISILL GIVES 
TRAINING SYSTEM
Method of Apprenticeship 
Training Proves to Be 
Seccessful
Stopping over on his way from Chi
cago, Mr. J. F. Rudisill spent the 
week-end in Pittsburgh at his Alma 
Mater, visiting the sohool and attend
ing one of the seasons big football 
games.
In Chicago, Mr. Rudisill delivered 
a lecture at the United Typothetae of 
America Convention which was held 
in the Edgewater Beach Hotel last 
week. His lecture was given on a 
system of Apprentice Training in the 
Printing Plant. This system has 
been devised and put in successful 
operation in the York Printing Com
panies establishment at York, Pa., by 
Mr. Rudisill. The training system as 
dfevised by Rudisill give an apprentice 
the theoretical and practical training 
necessary to turn out successful jour
neymen in the printing business. The 
pupil is required to pass an examina-. 
tion at the end of each six months 
period on both theory and practical. 
If he is successful, he is promoted; 
if not he remains in the same depart
ment another period.
Rudisill entered Carnegie in 1917, 
registering in the Printing Course in 
Industries College. He graduated 
with the class of 1921. Since gradua
tion he has been with the York Print
ing Company where be is now Assist
ant Superintendent.
While a student here he was quite 
active in school affairs, serving as an 
officer on the Graphica, Bagpipe and 
Tartan publications; Thistle photog
rapher, class treasurer in his Junior 
year, and class president in his Senior 
year.
But I got the most fun, said Rudi
sill, "playing the bass horn in the 
band. Sorry we didn't have kilts 
then.
He is a member of the Alpha Tau 
Omega fraternity and was elected to 
the Alpha Tau Honorary.
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TEGH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
An Opportunity to Pay Your Way Thru Tech
A dignified, pleasant opportunity to earn more than sufficient money to pay all your college ex
penses is available for a considerable number of Tech students. The company making the offer is backed 
by some of the leading stores and manufacturing concerns of this district. Read the brief description below and arrange to attend the mass meeting Thursday.
Member Federal Reserve
System. .j.
Capital - -......$300,000.00 
Surplus - -- -- -- - $300,000.00 .j.
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 Y
.*? SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
j* HIX XY,L
Y
$
tM$|
iDo You Want to Say a 
Lot For a Little?
!  ^ch Floiuer Shoj:! ! 4527 FORBES ST. M-ASCS/.::I y _B.VV.HAAS --p. PHONE SCHEiiLEY
Mrs. Ominide O. Brown of East Liberty has 
averaged sixty dollars income yearly during' the 
past three years from an investment of five dollars. 
This is an average return but in the case of a banker 
on Fourth Avenue his report shows a return of over 
three hundred dollars for the year 1923 on a like 
investment. Such a statement, remarkable as it is, 
bears investigation because the same opportunity is 
now open to the people of the Pittsburgh district.
A year ago a group of Pittsburghers gathered to 
discuss the question of thrift. Everyone wants to 
save or increase his annual income. How to in
crease that income under present conditions was the 
problem they sought to solve.
An average family budget was selected for in
vestigation and study. The budget selected was that 
of Mrs. Gertrude O. Brown. And there, buried 
among the items going to make their total income 
was this sixty dollars which in the short period of 
three years had mounted up to over two hundred 
dollars since she had left it in a savings account. 
Listen to her story of the two hundred dollars:
Mr. Brown had served with the 28th Division 
during the war and was married immediately upon 
his return to the States. Jimmy and Betty arrived 
and it took all the Browns earnings to pay the 
household bills. J\1 rs. Brown wanted to start a sav
ings account for each of the children but the extra 
money was not there. Then one. day she heard about 
an association of men who had served in tho army 
and navy. She. heard how they had banded together 
and had made arrangements with some of th local 
merchants to have refunds made on alTtheir pur
chases at these stores. She heard how they were mtting from two to ten dollars back each month from 
the association. And there was the answer to her 
problem.
Air. Brown joined tho association and now the' 
two hundred dollars are in the bank. No trouble. 
No red tape. No extra work. Each month tlio re
ceipted bills and cash slips'are sent to the club and 
the check comes back. Sixty to three hundred dol
lars on a live dollar investmentthe cost of the 
membership.
Therein lay the answer to the committee prob
lem. Why not such an association for people who 
lived in Pittsburgh? Why not hundreds of stores 
including leading department, electric, grocery, 
hardware, shoe and, in fact, stores handling every 
necessity and luxury of life ? Why not assure a re
turn to the members at a rate far beyond that which 
was thought possible?
Bankers and leading merchants were approach
ed. They were enthusiastic about it. Hundreds of 
stores agreed to go along. Today several hundred 
firms in the Pittsburgh district are listed with tho 
company. The members enroll in the association at 
an annual fee of five dollars. Whenever they buy 
they save their cash receipts and their monthly bills 
when paid. These are mailed monthly to the club, 
and a check is returned to them. No trouble at the 
stores where the purchases are made. In fact the 
man you buy from will not know whether you are a 
member or not.
Every family is eligible but there lias been a 
limit set on the total membership in order to prevent 
it. from getting unwieldy. When the first lists are 
closed new members can only be added upon death 
or moving out of the city of charter members.
HOW IT HAS BEEN RECEIVED
The plan has been presented to several clubs 
and in every instance has been approved heartily. 
In two cases they have arranged to enroll every one 
of tlicir members. House to house representatives 
have been sent out in selected communities for test 
pui-poses. Out of ten people making this test one 
sold twenty-four memberships the first day and the 
lowest return was sixteen. The average new mem
bers secured by the ten during the day of test was 
almost twenty.
The Pittsburgh Thrift Company as the commit
tee is incorporated prefers to deal wath the members 
through representatives who can intelligently ex
plain the proposition. They want to know that the 
proposition is being handled by people they can 
trast. Hence they are planning to diride the district 
and g'ive selected communities to Tech students. 
The annual fee is five dollars and a liberal com
mission is allowed the representatives. An ag
gressive newspaper campaign will be conducted in 
the daily newspapers. Students selected will be as
sured protection on all renewals in future years.
This is a clean cut proposition and one that sells 
itself. There is not a family in this district who 
would not get back their live dollars during the first 
two months of their membership.
Send in your application to the Tech employ
ment secretary and arrange to attend the meeting at 
Room 1.15, Central Building, Thursdav afternoon of 
this week. The meeting will start at four-thirty. A 
representative of the company will be there from 
three-thirtv on.
Pittsburgh Thrift Company, inc.
Meeting Thursday 4:30 P. M. 115 Centra! Bldg, There Is Only a Limited Number of Positions Open
if?
/
020001000001010002010202000002003000060502020002000001000102010109010900020110020200020002010002010200010200010002000202000001020101020201060500110901020000020002020100010200000102010102020002010201000010
00535353534891534853484853535323485348235348235348010200020202020000020201000001029002020053534823235353485323234853534853482323482348482353232348
000201000000010201020201000102010101020200000102010102010000020002300153010002000001000200010102020101000201020100090506040505020000
