Thistle Publishes Despite Deficit
Kathy Sabec, Editor of the THISTLE
Photo by Mark Segal
by Charles Mitch
Threatened by losses of $1200 or more, 
the CMU yearbook, Thistle apparently will 
be published this year. In a contradictory 
series of motions at its meetings of Feburary 26 and March 5, Student Senate has 
agreed to make up the difference between 
revenues and publishing costs.
Faced with the Thistles deficit at its 
February 26 meeting, Senate passed a 
motion to cancel the publication contract 
if the cost of breaking the contract was less 
than $1800. Susan Christian, Director of 
Student Activities reported to Senate at 
the March 5 meeting that it would cost 
$ 1600 to cancel the contract and $ 1200 to 
publish the Thistle. With the cost of cancel
lation less than $1800, Senates motion of 
the previous week dictated that publication 
should be cancelled.
Senate however ignored their previous 
action and passed another motion author
izing the Finance Committee Chairman, 
Dave Groupe, to give money to the Thistle 
as it is needed. When asked about the in
consistent actions, Senate Chairperson 
Susan Olshansky replied, We dont follow 
Roberts Rules of Order, we have our own 
way of doing things. I hate Roberts 
Rules. Senate Parliamentarian Dave 
Groupe pointed out that Senates constitu
tion calls for the use of Roberts Rules, 
but most of the Senators dont under
stand them.
The $ 1200 loss figure is based on pub
lishing and selling 200 books. To date 160 
books have been sold. To break even, the 
Thistle must sell 400 books. The total cost 
of publishing200books is $3549. At a price 
of $10 per book (excluding a 50 cents
iB tartan
March 11, 1975 Volume 75, Number 20
SDC Decides-Donner to go Co-ed
by Steven Correll
At a marathon meeting lasting almost 
three hours Sunday night, Students 
Dormitory Council voted to house men in 
the basement, first, and second floors of 
the west wing of Donner Hall, rooms now 
occupied by men.
The action reversed SDCs decision, 
made a week earlier, which rejected 
Donner in favor of a plan that would put 
women in both Scobell Hall and the second 
floor of McGill Hall.
y The meeting Sunday night took place 
under the watchful eyes of a dozen male 
residents of the third floor of Donner, 
several of them wearing the uniforms of 
the floors intramural team, the Red 
Riders.
The third floor residents vigorously 
opposed what they claimed was a plot to 
take their living quarters away without 
warning them; SDC representatives denied 
that any plot existed and complained that
the unexpected arrival of about 30 third 
floor residents at the earlier of the two 
Sunday night meetings intimidated the 
council into voting for the Scobell-McGill 
plan.
The housing of women in rooms now 
occupied by men is needed because of a 
shift in the ratio of women to men living in 
university rooms, according to Dean of 
Residence Life Charles Williams. He says 
that this year the university put three 
women in some rooms designed for two 
even while beds went empty in mens 
housing.
He estimates a reallocation of roughly 
70 beds would solve the problem.
The meeting on March 2, which resulted 
in the initial vote for the Scobell-McGill 
plan, was marked by shouting, conster
nation among the representatives at the 
sudden appearance of a crowd of their con
stituents, confusion over what motion was 
being voted on, and attendance dwindling
to less than a quorum by the end of the 
meeting. Several representatives com
plained that many of the council members
continued on page 5
delivery charge) there would be a $001 
income from book sales. Additionally the 
yearbook receives $1 for each senior pic
ture taken, which brings in another $400. 
With advertising covering the remaining 
$318, the loss figure of $1200 is reached. 
Originally and advertising revenue of 
$1600 had been projected, but to date 
only $225 worth of ads have been sold.
Last year was the first time a yearbook 
had been published since 1970. With poor 
student response to it, the existence of 
future editions of the Thistle is in doubt. 
Kathy Sabec, this years Thistle editor, 
commented at the March 5 Senate meeting 
that the alumni office told her that histor
ically more money has been contributed 
from those classed graduating in years 
when a yearbook was printed than when 
one wasnt.
Drama Summers
by Paul Smith
The Drama Department is considering a 
summer program, scheduled to start in 
1976. One of the major reasons behind the 
proposed program is the recent addition of 
air conditioning to the two theatres. Baker 
Salsbury, Acting Head of the Drama 
Department, commented, Realistically, in 
the past, the only production we could 
have staged would have been Dantes 
Inferno.
Proposed ideas for the program include 
a Professional Summer Theatre and a 
parallel program to that offered in the fall 
or spring. Mr. Salsbury also stressed that 
whoever is appointed as permanent Head 
of the Drama Department will have a major 
influence on how the program goes.
Females in the Hill?
IM Game Stopped 
-Excess roughing
by John Spaulding
Thursday, February 28, an intramural 
basketball game between the Bearded 
Clams and Violence (ATO) was cancelled 
due to excessive physical roughness on the 
part of the Violence team.
According to observers, the game was 
rugh from the very outset, with about 15 
fouls in the first half and 20 in the second. 
Four technical fouls were also called on the 
Violence team.
In the fourth quarter, the referees de
eded the game had gone far enough and 
called it on account of the physical abuse 
ilhe Clams were receiving.
uttiuiiyiuiMbta
the Violence players on the sidelines cheer
ing for every foul their players committed 
on the court. According to Joey Huston, a 
Clams player, the opposition applauded 
when the Clams center had the wind 
knocked out of him. He added that many 
of the points were scored by a man who 
played solid basketball and didnt foul 
much.
E. J. Birdy, Director of Intramural 
Sports, commented that the occurrance of 
such an incident earlier in the season, prob
ably would have resulted in the Intramural 
Board kicking the Violence team out of the 
league. He added that this was the only 
case of a game called early, in a season that
by Tim McCullough
Recently, residents of the Hill dormitor
ies expressed disparate opinions over the 
administrations proposal to house female 
students on the Hill.
Some, like Steve Piccoli, a sophomore 
chemistry major, expressed anger at the 
administrations proposal. Concerned with 
the rights of present residents of the Hill, 
Piccoli resented the ability of the admin
istration to deprive upperclassmen of de
sired accomodations. Just because the 
administration arbitrarily decides to in
crease the number of female students 
attending this school, he stated, does not 
mean that I should have to give up my 
squatters rights. Piccoli summed up his 
dislike of additional accomodations for the 
increased number of females attending 
CMU next year when he said, Pittsburgh 
already has its quota of dog pounds.
Other residents feared changes in the 
Hill dormitories. Peter Harvison, also a 
sophomore chemistry major, did not want 
the actions of Hill residents to become as 
restricted as the actions of Morewood 
Gardens residents. Harvison especially did 
not want some old bitch at a central desk 
telling me what I could and could not do 
and when I could do it  Besides the idea 
of a central desk to regulate their actions, 
many Hill dormitory residents disapproved 
of the commonly held belief that the new 
female residents would receive preferential 
treatment. They wondered whether the
Women will move to the hill.
Photo by Frank Stein
new female residents would be given con 
veniences, elevators, air conditioning, ho 
plates, utility rooms, etc., and if 
whether the males living on the Hill wou 
also be given these conveniences. Some Hi 
residents simply refused to believe that th 
administration would force female student 
to live under the spartan conditions Hi! 
residents must presently live under. On> 
skeptic declared, It would cost too muci 
to fix this place up, while a resident of 
Donner Hall stated, How are the girls 
going to get used to rooms as smaii s 
these?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975
editors note
Pass the Apple
byChar Tb~Tc>\A)eRx lesaeMiha VMe trrcTinTr t
Ever since Eve was accused of stealing the apple, women 
and men have been in conflict over their societal roles. Men 
succeed; women concede. You may have come a long way 
baby, but women and men remain alienated within 
themselves and in their relations with each other. Those who 
advocate that women at Carnegie-Mellon are fully accorded 
their rights, are the chauvinists. And those who advocate that 
women at CMU are an oppressed lot, are regarded as 
"womens libbers. Women do have it good at 
Carnegie-Mellonfor all the wrong reasons.
Students Dorm Council has been discussing where.to 
house the increasing womens population on campus next 
year. Students speculate that if women are moved to the hill 
dorms, housing conditions will be improved there, but men 
will be thrown out with no place to go. Regina Hopkins, past 
president of SDC, commented that the mens attitude was 
Well, well listen to the womens side, but make it fast. 
Men see that if the women move to the hill, it will be one 
way of forcing the administration to improve their con
ditions. By moving women to the hill, Hopkins said, Its a 
lever that isnt there. Because the men in Warner Hall are 
paternalists, the dorms may be improved. Its pitiful that 
dorm conditions may improve because administrators fear 
that poor fresh-women wont survive without physical 
renovations. In the meantime, men wont benefit from 
improvements unless women move to the hill. And with this 
move, some men will be denied housing. One wonders who 
really is oppressed at this university. Funny thing, how men 
so often decide what women need.
Security is based on this same kind of paternalistic 
attitude at Warner Hall. Morewood Gardens is the only dorm 
with a full-time staffed desk, because the poor women cant 
defend themselves. Its a pathetic assumption that men are 
more able to fight off guns and knives. Judging from recent 
incidents, it seems that even trained Security men find it 
rather difficult to deal with knives and guns.
This year, women are the predominant leaders of 
students organizations. The president of Student 
Government, the chairperson of Student Senate, the editor of 
the Thistle, the president of the Activities Board, the 
president of SPIRIT, and the president of the Latin American 
Club are women. Some students contend that women are 
more aggressive than the average nurd male on this 
campus. Others say that women are often in H&SS and have 
more time for student activities. When men are involved, 
nobody gives reasons or justifications. One female student 
leader explained that she felt like a figure-head with men 
letting her have her fun because after all, she was the boss. As 
an editor, / was told that / had to prove myself. It seems that 
women always have to prove themselves. Men and women 
should both be proving their competence through 
commitment and involvement. The fact that women leaders 
today dominate CMU organizations should be viewed as no 
more of a phenomenon than if men dominate.
/ was recently offended to see a poster advertising a 
meeting of Womens Collective, which said, with a 3:1 ratio, 
its hard to fight alone.  Presently, there is a 2:1 ratio of men 
to women at CMU and / dont understand what we are 
fighting. Although Im sick of hearing that women came to 
CMU to find husbands (how about men who came to find 
wivesthey exist) women at CMU should not be fighting for 
their own rights. Rather, they should be fighting with men to 
better this campus and better themselves emotionally and 
intellectually as persons. ^
Womens Week is a set of programs to provide skills and 
information. In order to be successful, this week should be an 
information bank for men also. Unfortunately, the men who 
need to be educated about womens needs probably wont 
attend. Womens Collective, a student organization, has a 
weekly attendance of 20 to 25 women and only one male. 
AIthough this group wants more males to attend and it is a way 
of making women stronger internally, a group of this kind 
can not be as effective without the formation of a separate 
mens group. Without introducing males to womens 
thinking, little can be accomplished.
Women should not have it good at CMU because they 
are feminine and in need of unique attention. Men should not 
be neglected because they are rougher and can stand up to 
worse conditions. Unless the feelings of both these groups are 
inter and intra-communicated, any type of liberation oi 
integration is a joke.
Debbie Siegel
letters
Editor:
The Students Dormitory 
Council is YOUR government, 
according to SDC. The purpose 
of SDC is to promote the welfare 
and interests of the residents of 
the dormitory system. A closer 
look reveals that the members of 
SDC are not representatives of 
the dormitory system. They are a 
group of people in little or no 
contact with the people they are 
to be representing.
Last week, the residents of 
third floor Donner found out 
(through a series of rumors) that 
their floor and second floor were 
going to be replaced next year by 
female residents. Not knowing 
exactly why this change was tak
ing place, the third floor res
idents attended the SDC meeting 
that Sunday night. As it turned 
out, this change had been under 
consideration for nearly three 
weeks. The third floor had a rep
resentative for SDC last semester 
but academic pressures forced 
him to give up the position. 
However, this does not excuse 
the fact that the president of
SDC lives on second floor 
Donner and never felt it to be his 
duty to inform the third floor 
residents, or any other floors for 
that matter, that the change was 
being considered.
When the third floor residents 
attended the meeting Sunday 
night, the representatives were 
very upset and annoyed by the 
third floor attendance. It was 
stated that they prefer a closed 
meetingno visitorseven 
though they are supposed to be 
representing those visitors. 
The council conducted them 
selves like idiotsto put it bluntcontinued on page 3
tartan
Editor-in-chif: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: 
Trapeze Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Mark Evan Chimsky 
Greg McKenna 
John Shettel 
Dave Kanner 
Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven Correlt, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes, 
Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, 
John Mangano, Charles Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner.
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier Vivian Kerstein, Ron Lasser
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

jy Motions had to be stated 
three and four times because the 
representatives were too busy 
doing something else to pay any 
attention to the president.
' All in all, the entire meeting 
was disgusting. Previous assign
ments pertaining to the number 
of returning residents on each 
floor of the male dormitories 
were not carried out, with the 
exception of one representative. 
There was little concern over 
logical, practical alternatives as 
*to where the 100 incoming girls 
should live. There was much con
cern over which dorm the female 
council representatives preferred-not only for the incom
ing freshmen girls but for them
selves as well. The point is that 
the entire matter was not 
handled in the way that an or
ganized, fair and aware group 
would have handled the problem.
An SDC representative asked 
one of the third floor residents 
how we [the third floor res
idents] found out about the 
issue. Our question to the 
council, Why all the secrecy? 
The council is supposed to be 
representing the students. As far 
as we know, no one outside the 
council or the administration 
knew about the changes that 
were being planned. The council 
should become aware of the 
difference between abusing their 
power and actually informing the 
people they represent of all im
portant topics that directly 
affect them. The council should 
also reach a decision that incon
veniences as few people as 
possible. WHAT HAPPENED TO 
SQUATTERS RIGHTS? Since 
the University is breaking 
Housing contracts to a number 
of students (maybe they 
(Housing) should be charged 
$100.00) it should affect as few 
students as possible.
Since were on the topic of 
SQUATTERS RIGHTS, the 
council took a vote on whether 
or not to abolish squatters rights 
next year. Fortunately it was 
voted down. How many of you 
students knew it was an issue, let 
alone council actually voting on 
it?
On the matter of promoting 
the welfare and interests of the 
residents of the dormitory sys
tem, maybe SDC should refer
ence the activities of third floor 
Donner. SDC can view the power 
of student concern (and not 
abuse of power) by remembering 
who organized the Food Boycott 
last year, and who led the con
cern over the Hill Heating Crisis 
last November.
The Clams & Riders
Editor:
! am writing this letter so that 
may provide a rebuttal to the 
ttguments made by Thomas Jesse 
Shwartz in his letter in the 
TAN dated March 4, 1975.1
^ -VVvS \s \^L uoJlL
u^ouA. jbarUrna, mxSU'
go-tVtVs ctean saM ln\ t^as Evers in
disagree with'him when he talks 
about the modern scientist 
wanting to put man on an 
inferior levek. I disagree both with 
the logic and the facts(such as 
they are) in the body of the 
letter. Finally, I totally fail to see 
how his arguments (again, such as 
they are) lead up to his 
melodramatic appeal to the 
psychology department of CMU. 
In the following paragraphs I will 
try to say why I believe so.
As for the first point, he rests 
his argument on two points. 
Firstly, he uses the word" 
inhuman in Dr. Simons speech 
as a sort of takeoff for his 
argument. I was at that talk and I 
can say very positively that the 
speaker meant non-human and 
used this particular word merely 
to stress the point. Secondly, to 
claim that man is going to 
become inferior creature owing 
to the development of artificial 
intelligence is a fallacy which 
would be an insult to point out 
to your readers. It is merely
another form of the argument
often used in the past, which runs
something like this: If God had 
meant man to have..., He woulfi 
have...^ta&y| Q^^grs^map 
inferior |o|& steam engiiie because 
he cant run faster than it. 
Arguments to the contrary have 
been made for over a century 
now. There is not a single one 
which has withstood scrutiny.
Next, I would like to take on 
Mr. Schwartz when he says,by 
condoning movements such as 
this, destruction will be facilitat
ed. Mr. Schwartz has fallen into 
the popular error of confusing 
the applications of a technology 
with the technology itself and its 
potential. No one in his right 
mind will deny that technology 
has been exploited by the mil
itary establishments of countries 
all over the world. But to claim 
that as a reason for not doing 
research is really equivalent to 
being against small-pox vaccine 
because it causes chicken-pox. If 
Mr. Schwartz seriously believes 
that the growth of science and 
technology should be curbed 
while the politicians of the world 
try to solve the problems created
Alternative Grading
Have you ever been in a class where, on your final 
grades, you deserved better than a C but not quite a B? Or 
maybe you deserved less than a A but a B would be unfairly 
low? / know that / have and we probably all have.
/ was speaking with a friend of mine, who attends 
Franklin and Marshall College, about grades recently and he 
told me that he got a C in geology, an A in English lit and a 
B+ in Political Science.
A B+? / said, You mean a B, dont you?
No, he replied I mean a B+. Dont you use-p/usses 
and minuses at CMU?
No, we don How does it workZ
It's simple. A D is 1.0, a D+ t)3, a C1.7, a C+ 2.3, and 
so on up the line to A+ which is 4.3. 
You mean its possible to get a 4.3grade point average 
for the semester?
It certainly is. Last years valedictorian had a 4.7."
/ immediately thought back to every B that Id ever 
gotten and the A that / thought / deserved. / grabbed my 
roommates calculator, redid my grades for the last three 
semesters, and found that my QPA would have been slightly 
higher in each case. Now Im not editorializing for higher 
grades, only for a more equitable grading system. Our exams 
and papers are marked in terms of plus and minus, why not 
our final grades? Why shouldnt that unfortunate soul whos 
on the borderline between a C and a. B aet a C+ or a Bwould not automatically mean higher grades. / realize that 
some of the Bs would become Bs and some of the Cs 
would become C s.
In the long run though, this would be a fairer medium 
for the instructors evaluation of his students. Our QPAs are 
totalled by computers anyway and Im sure that it would be 
no problem for them to accomodate the new system. While 
this may not be the perfect method of giving students 
feedback on the work theyre doing, it is a better one. Why 
not throw it in the water and see if it floats?
Dave Kann er 
Sports Editor
.'by these scientists, I am afraid 
that his picture is too far away 
from reality to make any sense at 
all. In the irrational world that he 
talks about, our only remaining 
claim to being civilized comes 
from the scientists and their 
work. I am sorry but I do not know 
of any other group that has 
greater claim to being rational 
than the scientists.
Finally, I will repeat that I see 
no connection between the main 
body of his letter and his con
cluding comments on the 
psychology department at this 
university. His comments on 
computer music, American 
poetry, and designated hitters in 
baseball are basically comments 
on American culture and as such 
seem irrelevant to the main 
theme of his letter, at least as I 
see it.
We would all be very much the 
gainers if conscience-bound 
people like Mr. Schwartz were to 
become scientists rather than 
waste their valuable minds on a 
losing battle.
R. Bhaskar
The Tartans are 
Winners
WPIHA FINALS 
Are
Sunday, March 16 
at 1 p.m. Civic Arena 
Tickets at Skibo Info Desk 
$1.50
Come Watch Them do 
it!
THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975-Page 3
news comment

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975
announcements
Pre-law students looking for a clinical work
project for possible course credit see PreLaw Advisor Thomas M. Kerr, GSIA, im
mediately.
Work to be done next two months so 
don't come if you have a heavy load this 
semester.
Robert Schofield, Department of History
of Science and Technology at Case Western 
University will speak on "Physics, Meta
physics and TheologyUnity and Utilitar
ianism in Joseph Priestley's Thought on 
Tuesday, March 11 at 4:30 pm in the Hunt 
Institute.
Karl Weick, Graduate School of Psy
chology and Business Administration at 
Cornell University will speak on ".Where i^ 
the Organization?" on Wednesday, March 
19 at 3:30 pm in GSIA 319.
AB Film Committee is now choosing next
semester's films. If you'd like to help, 
come to the meeting Sunday at 7:00 in 
Ski bo 57.
The Pleasures of Merely Circulating Read
ing Series will be presenting student and 
faculty writers reading from their own 
work every Tuesday, 4:30-5:30 pm room 
46 Skibo. Featured writers March 11: 
Anthony Adler, Julio Vera, Tom Schwartz. 
March 18: Mark Chimsky. Wendy Shaffer' 
Sponsored by the Creative Writing Program 
and the Oakland Review.
There will be a meeting for anyone inter
ested in working on the Oakland Review in 
such areas as advertising, publicity, sales, 
artwork and other staff work Friday, 
March 14 11:30 am in the English lounge, 
2nd floor, Baker Hall. All are welcome.
The THISTLE '75 staff wishes to announce 
that the/will print THISTLE '75; but they 
will print only as many copies as are sold 
by March 30, 1975. Seniors planning to 
buy books should not delayor they won't 
have another opportunity ever! Skibo In
formation desk will sell the THISTLE this
month. For more information call. 
683-0222.
Mary Hall, Supervisor of Allegheny Com
munity, and co-author of the Pittsburgh 
Home Rule Charter will speak on the Equal 
Rights Ammendment and Women in Pol
itics. Open discussion, all opinions invited 
and welcome. March 17, 1975, 8:00 pm, 
Hammerschlag House. Sponsored by Res
idence Life Program.
Interested in finding out more about
organizations you have been afraid to 
approach alone? Do you want to rap with 
others about the future of the world? Then 
come join us. Transcendental Meditation: 
The benefits of T.M. and how it amy affect 
the future of the world will be discussed, 
March 11, 7:30 pm, Hammerschlag House. 
Friends Peace Center: A spokesperson will 
discuss the services offered by the Center 
and the possibility of world peace in our 
lifetime. Marcg 12, 7:30 pm, Hammer
schlag House. Sponsored by Residence Life 
Program.
Christianity and the University, Part III,
which had been postponed, has been re
scheduled for Monday, March 17 at 7:30 
pm in the Wherrett Room. The talk will be 
"Science: The Limits of Knowledge" by 
Dr. R.B. Griffiths, Professor of Physics at 
CMU.
The scientific knowledge of the present 
day has limited reliability. While the limits 
can be improved by further research, there 
are probably intrinsic limits to the scien
tific enterprise which will prevent (for 
example) the reduction of psychology to 
atomic physics. Sponsored by the Inter 
Varsity Christian Fellowship.
Give the gift of life. The Pittsburgh Blood
Bank will be here April 10 (Thursday). 
Make an appointment now by calling A 
Phi O ext. 595, or Room 16 Skibo. Join 
the CMU student plan.
The CMU Department of Music is sponsor
ing a String Symposium on March 29,
WOMEN IN JOURNALISM
EILEEN COLIANI,
SUSAN REIMER
Pittsburgh Forum
Associated Press
SKIBO ROOM 46
Thursday, March 13,8:30 P.M. 
CMU TARTAN SYMPOSIUM ON 
MODERN AMERICAN JOURNALISM
A RECEPTION WILL BE HELD FOLLOWING 
THE LECTURE
1975, open to anyone who is interested in 
playing and being coached in string 
Chamber Music. Members of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony and other qualified professional 
musicians will coach string quartets. 
George Grossman, Associate Professor of 
Music at CMU is the Musical Director and 
Producer. For more information and 
applications, contact Music Dept. But 
hurry. Deadline for camups participants is 
March 12. Auditors are welcome to attend 
all events free.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold its third Winter Lunch and Lec
ture Series event at Carnegie-Mellon 
University on March 18 at 11:30 am in 
Room 100, Skibo. The speaker will be Pro
fessor Bernard Sachs, Asst. Professor, 
Painting & Sculpture, CMU, whose topic 
will be "The Joy of Art." Lunch is op
tional. Speaker begins at 11:45 am. All 
graduate and undergraduate students and 
faculty are welcome.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will have a bagel and lox brunch on Sun
day, March 16 at 11 am in room 608 in the 
Student Union at Duquesne University. 
Come for the food or just for the dis
cussion led by Prof. Nahmod of the 
Duquesne Law School.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
announces Passover information for stu
dents and faculty. Those students wishing 
Passover home hospitality for Wednesday, 
March 26 and Thursday, March 27 should 
call the Hillel Office. All those wishing 
Passover meals at the Hillel Dining Club, 
March 31 through April 3, call the Hillel 
Office for reservations.
Anyone interested in learning about the
H&SS Student Defined Major program is 
invited to an informal coffee hour, Thurs
day, March 13, from 2:30 to 4:30 pm in 
the MMCC Faculty Lounge. Feel free to 
come at any time for as long as you wish.
The Department of History and Philosophy
invites you to a lecture by J.H. Plumb, 
Professor of Modern English History and a 
fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge 
University, Wednesday, March 12 at 4:00 
pm, Scaife Hall Auditorium. The title of 
his talk is, "The New World of Children in 
Eighteenth Century Enaland."
A seminar on breast cancer will be held oni
Wednesday, March 5 at 6:30 pm in the; 
Chatham College Theatre.
Dr. George Sartiano and Dr. Melvin 
Deutsch of the University of Pittsburgh's 
School of Medicine will be guest speakers. 
Dr. Sartiano, a chemotherapist, is an Assist
ant Professor in the Department of Med
icine. Dr. Deutsch is an Associate Professor 
in the Department of Radiation Oncology.
A film, Recovery After Masectomy will 
be shown by Mrs. Benjamin R. Fisher of 
the Reach to Recovery Program of the 
American Cancer Society.
The seminar, sponsored by the Chatham 
Biology Society, is open to the public. Ad
mission is by donation. Proceeds will go to 
the American Cancer Society.
PREMEDICAL STUDENTS PLEASE 
NOTE:
1. Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) 
registration packets for tne May 3 exam are 
now available in DH 2114 For those stu
dents planning to take this exam, the regis
tration materials must be postmarked by 
Aprii 7, 1975.
2. Request forms for The American Med
ical College Application Service (AMCAS) 
will be available in late March.
3. The Premedical Advisory Committee has 
recently made a mailing of information of 
interest to premedical students. If you did 
not receive this mailing, it means we do not 
have your name. In order to appear on the 
list, please stop by DH 2114 and give us 
your name and address.
Bicycle ClubMarch 12, 4:30 pm, Skibo
56. The Club is for those who wish to tour 
in groups, want to know more about their 
bikes and how to fix them. Tools will be 
available to those that need them. (
Starting this Thursday, there will be a
weekly informal film discussion following 
the 7:30 showing of the Film Arts movie. 
Bill McTaggart of CMU's English Depart
ment, and others will be on hand to discuss 
the Film Arts movie and other topics, inI 
eluding current films. Sponsored by Res
ident Life Program. Time: immediately 
following the 7:30 film, Thursday evening. 
Place: Doherty Hall 2105.
Classified
WANTED: Arts and crafts of all kinds for
selling on consignment. Call 362-6562 
evenings.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Want to pay your way through school? Sell
1 policy per week and you'll earn approx
imately $4,000 per year. Reply to 
TARTAN giving name, phone no. and 
address.
free pregnancy testing Mon-Sat 9-4. For
information call 362-2920.
35 days, each one a beautiful possibility.
Second Summer Program in Mexico. Baker 
Hall 228C.
For sale: Garrard SL75B turntable with
Pickering PATE/4 cartridge. Call Pete, 
682-0651 evenings after 7.
Furnished Squirrel Hill house for rent, 
June' 1 to Deceomber 31, 1975. Couple 
preferred, no children, no pets. 
$300/month, plus utilities, security de
posit. Rent negotiable for other circum
stances. 521-7897.
summerineurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U S GOVT APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
70/ 707 707
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
1/2
ECONOMY FARE
; 707 707 uni-travel charters
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800 325-4867 
Personals
D.J.Had any second thoughts lately?!
D.K.
FOR A GOOD TIME call Mitch, Sundayj
after 9 pm621-WRCT.

---------------------------------------------------

Women Favor Co-ed 
living in Donner
THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975-Page 5
continued from page 1
didnt understand the architecture of the 
buildings they were discussing.
It was a really, really bad meeting, 
said one. .
Rumors of a plot apparently began 
circulating on the third floor of Donner the 
day before that meeting. The night before 
the meeting, residents asked SDC president 
Bill Jacobs about the rumor. He says he 
t0ld them that Donner had been men
tioned casually as one of several possible 
plans. Third floor resident remained sus
picious of SDCs intentions even after the 
vote for the Scobell-McGill plan.
I They [some SDC representatives] said 
we got our way becuase we were the only 
floor represented at the meeting, says 
third floor resident Kevin Clark. They 
said that nobody else in the dorms knew 
about the decision, or they would have 
showed up too. Now that sounds really 
good for a students dorm council to be 
saying: they didnt tell anybody what they 
were going to do.
The third floor has not had a voting 
representative on SDC since last semester, 
when representative Jeff Byers resigned, 
^lark was hurriedly elected to SDC after 
this issue developed.
Following the first chaotic Sunday 
session, SDC held a closed meeting on 
Wednesday night, intended to be 
secret. , v > . ys
Women representatives have generally
favored Donner over Scobell, arguing that 
security would be better in a building 
lared with males, that it flight-be possible
building should havepriority.
Former SDC president Regina Hopkins 
said a poll of students in Morewood D 
tower showed that many women would 
like to live in Donner, but that few w'ould 
choose Scobell if it were available, and thus 
Scobell would probably be filled with 
freshmen. Ms. Hopkins said that she and 
several other SDC representatives have 
around 200 signatures favoring Donner, 
and a male representative from Donner, 
Tony Fine, got numerous signatures from 
residents who understood that making 
Donner coed might force them to move 
out of their rooms but favored the plan 
anyway.
But an SDC poll of Donner first tloor 
residents showed most of them planning to 
stay in their current rooms next year ii 
allowed, and Resident Assistant Nicholas 
Rogone said most residents on that floor 
v'ould welcome coed housing but dont 
want to give up their own rooms so it can 
be instituted.
Dean Williams handed to SDC the de
cision of which rooms to reallocate, though 
he does reserve the right to reject their 
proposal.
I want to work with students to make 
them as happy about university housing as 
I can, he explained. It doesnt matter 
much to Housing who gets put where-we 
just want to put bodies in those beds, I 
need help in terms of SDC telling me what 
most desireable. . .making people happy is 
the student governments function.*
Latin Amer. Lit Highlighted
staffdesk fnthrfefrby34Observers at 4Q ^ilir^SPCjqsgtthaL Williams turned -hack jua
by Claire Lee
On March 15 and 16, the Latin 
American Literary Review will sponsor an 
extensive conference on women writers 
from Latin America. Professor Yvette 
Miller (Chief Editor of the L. American 
Literary Review) and Professor Jose L. 
Varela-Ibarra of the CMU Foreign Lang
uage Dept, are the coordinators of the 
event.
They have been able to secure the 
presence of around 35 speakers which in
clude critics and scholars from different 
U.S. universitits as well as playwrights, 
novelists and poets from Uruguay, Mexico, 
Chile and other Latin American countries. 
Some of these deserve special mention. 
Carlota ONeill, neice of Eugene ONeill, 
will speak on Womens Struggle in Latin 
America. Also speaking will - be Ofelia 
Machado Bonet (Uruguays leading fem
inist), Teresinha Alves Pereira (winner of 
the Brazillian National Theatre Award in 
1972) and many others.
The program will be divided into two 
days. Saturdays session will be held in 
GSIA from 10:30 onwards-beginning with 
a general discussion of Latin American 
women writers. The afternoon will be 
occupied with talks on theatre and poems 
to be concluded by a Poetry Reading 
session during the early evening. CMU stu
dents will be present to translate the 
poetry during the reading.
Early Sunday morning (10 am) the con
ference will continue in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo. During the morning,<fiii<i t\ii,.i i ii  <.
speakers will discuss the literature of Latin 
American women writers during the 19th 
century and, afterwards, the development 
and present state of women in the modern 
novel. Among the speakers will be Mr. 
Charles Tatum, co-editor of the L. 
American Literary Review.
Beginning at 2 pm there will be two 
special sessions going on: one on AfroCuban literature to be followed by a dis
cussion of the works Of Rosario Castel
lanos, Mexican author and ambassador to 
Israel who died tragically in Tel Aviv last 
summer.
Some of these sessions will be in Span
ish, while most will be in English. The 
conference will close with a panel dis
cussion in Spanish with all the writers par
ticipating.
Due to transportation and living facility 
costs for the guest speakers, the conference 
is valued in the multi-thousand dollar 
range. The funds have been provided 
through grants from the National Endow
ment for the Arts, Mrs. Clifford S. Heinz 
and the CMU College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences. Professor Miller has re
ceived numerous responses from 
throughout the country about the confer
ence and she hopes that student attendance 
will be enthusiastic. Set appropriately dur
ing 1975 (International Womens Year), 
the conference is an excellent opportunity, 
Professor Miller believes* to enlighten t&e 
public about the prominent role that 
women hold in Latin American literature 
-the knowledge of which ha been poiponed for too long.' y
td setlfrii
r K  - - . -V  %  '** *>"
Complicating the councils debate on 
Wednesday night was a desire among some 
I presentatives to see Scobell renovated
linto apartments. Some argued that voting 
|to house women there would make the 
lapariment renovation less likely; others 
largued that continuing to house men there 
I'ould make the renovation less likely. 
Questioned after the meeting, Dean 
'illiams said he does not yet know how 
pitch CMU can afford to spend on ren
ovations and is not convinced which
Williams poHey^Wi^ a}
ItBijcrvatiofl difficult, and >is u&f^irrto the. 
students who have to give up their 
squatters rights in reallocation.
Right now, if 50 guys come to me and 
say they want to set up an architects floor, 
for example, I cant do it because I know 
somebodys going to kill me if I take away 
their rooms for next year. . .1 was telling 
council that [when you enforce squatters 
rights] you create these problems. If 
youre willing to accept those problems, 
then thats OK, too.
PEER HELP
Means a wide variety of services for a wide 
range of problems 
Student Senate Health Fund ... Extensive 
Referral Service 
Free tutors for Freshman and Sophomore 
Science and Engineering Courses 
Crisis Intervention Teams on Call 
Sincere people who want to help or just 
talk
We are Students helping students  use us 
Baker Hall 150-A 621-9900
* '; VJohn Casavette's
A WOMAN UNDER 
THE INFLUENCE
STARRING
GENA 
ROWLANDS
PETER
FALK
THURSDAY, MARCH 13 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
8:30 P.M. 
$2.00, CMU I.D. Requested
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

page 6THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975
SENATORS WANTED!
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PETITIONS 
FOR STUDENT SENATE SEATS 
AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFO DESK
SENATE SEATS UP FOR ELECTION!
AMS
CIT
FA
GSIA
H&SS
MIS
SUPA
PRESIDENT OF STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 
IS ALSO UP FOR ELECTION.
RETURN PETITION TO SKIBO INFO DESK BY MARCH 21Y06A OMSK
Unit 4M vi Thist
y ft\or*_f*o*4. WiLD fcv.S. 3/24Te^va. tAoAxeie.'rtski
361-22.55_______
!C1 mi 707 jfii travel charte?s 
 CALL TOLL FREE 1-800 325-4867 
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
1/2
ECONOMY FARE
summer
ineurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
US GOVT APPROVED
FalseAlarms:Watch Before You PullHttl i
campus similar to those down at Pitt, all 
buildings have pull alarms. The alarms are 
hooked into four master alarm boxes 
which cover the entire campus. These 
boxes, in turn, are tied into the Security 
office monitor board, and to the Fire 
Bureau offices downtown; downtown 
relays all calls to the Oakland station to 
send equipment up to the campus.
Occasionally, alarms have come into 
the Fire Bureau by themselves, from mal
functioning equipment. This is frequent in 
rainy damp weather, and when Pennsyl
vania Bell men are working near an alarm 
circuit. When an alarm starts giving prob
lems, it will light up the yellow warning 
light at Security which indicates a problem 
in the alarm system of that particular 
building. Sometimes, this can avoid trouble 
by letting CMU know of faulty equipment 
*|befpre the Pittsburgh firemen are called 
out by accident.
Most of the time, though, the alarms are 
deliberately gulled. Security head Mike 
Corfetti noted that at other campuses he 
has worked at, outsiders usually cause 
much of the trouble. He noted that the 
CMU public call boxes have not been 
pulled, and that often a false alarm comes 
from an academic building rather than a 
dorm. Corletti said that Theres no real 
safeguard because of the nature of the 
equipmentyou cant restrict access to it 
like a bank vault. CMU students are the 
best protection against these abuses, he 
commented. If enough students would let
by Chip Yeager
It's late one Saturday night, in a Hill 
dorm. Someone, whether a CMU student 
or outsider gets drunk and just for the 
hell of it pulls a fire alarm in the dorm 
hall. At that moment, in Securitys Baker 
Hall office, a yellow warning and red alert 
light both light up on a monitor board, 
indicating that a Hill area alarm has been 
pulled. The Security men on duty then call 
all CMU cars and send them over towards
photo by Rick Frantz
the Hill. Down in Oakland, in Fire Station 
24, a light goes on alerting the firemen to a 
possible fire up at the CMU campus. The 
battalion chief sends two to four pumpers 
barreling down Forbes Ave. The trucks 
turn up Margaret Morrison and stop at the 
master fire board for the Hill area. On the 
map of this section of the campus, display
ed in the board, a light indicates in which 
dorm the alarm was pulled. At the dorm 
itself, an annunciator box indicates, by 
code punches in a paper ribbon, just which 
box was pulled. Inside, the firemen find no 
fire, no emergency and no person who 
turned in the alarm. After several calls to 
CMU officials, the firemen then pull out 
and return to Oakland, grousing as they go 
about another false alarm.
False alarms are the curse of the big city 
fireman, forcing him to travel miles to 
answer one, while leaving another part of 
the city vulnerable to an actual fire. In 
firefighting, moments count in the saving 
of lives and property. CMLTs situation is 
serious, for it lies at the edge of the Oak
land stations area of coverage, almost a 
mile up a busy street. The other Fire 
Bureau stations are in Shadyside, near 
Walnut Street, and over on the other side 
of Squirrel Hill, off Shady Ave. The only 
ladder truck readily available is at the 
Squirrel Hill station, well over a mile from 
the CMU campus.
CM IPs fire system extends all over cam
pus. In addition to five public call boxes on
Security know of anything they witness, 
more false alarm pullers could be arrested 
and prosecuted, an effective deterrent. The 
Pennsylvania Criminal Code makes the 
turning in of false alarms a first-degree mis
demeanor, punishable by a fine of up to 
$1000 and/or a prison term of up to 2 
years.
Corletti noted that most false alarms are 
turned in at the beginning and at the end 
of a semester. Figures for this past year 
bear him out; 11 false alarms were turned 
in for last May and June, seven last Sep
tember and six last December. The rest ofl 
the year, from last March until now, there 
were only an average of two to three false 
alarms a month. In all, Security recorded 
some 30 deliberately set false alarms for 
the past year, as opposed to some twenty 
due to fire drills, malfunctioning equip
ment, etc. The last time that anyone was 
caught was last July when Security nabbed 
someone obviously under the influence of 
alcohol. Security did not state that the 
man was a CMU student, and they reported 
a Massachusetts address for him.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
March 11, 1975Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 8 March 11, 1975
three
senior 
projects
in metalurgy
bv Sharon Curcio
COPPERALUMINUM
Bruce McMordie, a senior whose project this year 
concerns The Sintering of Dissimilar Materials, chose 
to examine aluminum and copper because of their con
ductivity. He explained that a material phase is formed 
where the two conducting materials meet, but that this 
phase has neither the properties nor structure of the 
parent materials: The phase that forms is simply one in 
a group of unusual phases in the copper and aluminium 
system with a certain type of atomic structure. The 
phase that my project focuses upon has a high resistance 
to electrical current flow. So when I join aluminum and 
copper together, metals that both are excellent con
ductors, and a phase appears between them that arrests 
electrical flow and acts as an insulator, then this reaction 
suggests that some interesting changes are occurring. In 
an effort to monitor when the phase appears Bruce ran 
an electrical current through the metals while they were 
being heated to a specific temperature. When the elec
trical current running through the copper failed to con
tinue through to the aluminum Bruce could detect the 
insulating or resistance phase.
Speaking of the applications of his research, Bruce 
said that those working with conductors must be aware 
of the phases that hinder electrical flow and must avoid 
combining aluminum and copper conductors. With the 
price of copper rising, many in construction have turned 
to using aluminum conductors, and its vital for them to 
know not to join the two metals and in this way avert 
those insulator phase problems. Im more interested in 
the atomic scale aspects of the process, added Bruce, 
so Ill be spending more time in the area of physical 
metallurgy and atomic motion.
ROASTING ORES
Deidre Hirschfeld, also a senior, has been studying the 
effects of roasting on the micromineralogy of low-grade 
uranium ores for her project. She pointed out that 
although many of the procedures for extracting uranium 
from the low-yield ores found in the U.S. are not econ
omically feasible, the roasting process provides the most 
uranium for the costs incurred. She included in her 
report that roasting would increase the porosity of the 
mineral and remove volatile substances and later found 
that it did remove oxides and sulfides from the lowgrade ores. In her experiment she roasted the ores at two 
temperatures, 500 C and 750 C, then examined the 
results using a scanning electron microscope with a 
multi-channel X-ray analyzer. She added that the X-ray 
diffraction is the only one mineralogical technique by 
which metallurgists classify the ore on the basis of where 
the uranium-bearing matter is located within the micro
structure of the grains. Deidre concluded by saying, I 
then compared the roasted ores to the raw ore sample to 
determine the effects of the process and draw my con
clusions.
ULTRASONIC BONES
Todd Gross, a senior in metallurgy with an interest in 
biological materials, is interested in determining the 
physiological state of bone tissue by quantifying the 
micro structure of bone and applying ultrasonics to 
register the wave output. Todds report mentions the 
porosity in relation to mechanical response, and he in
dicates that Measurements have been made showing a 
definite correlation between the speed of sound and the 
porosity in porous ceramics. Todd explained that the 
project began as a masters students thesis, but that later 
he assumed the project as his senior thesis. Bone den
sity and porosity on a microlevel are critical factors since 
these characteristics both predict and describe the phys
iological changes that occur in the tissue, said Todd. 
Osteoporosis, a bone cancer, is indicated by an increase 
in the bone porosity and results from an increase in bone 
resorption. According to Todds report, X-ray photo
graphy, the technique currently used to diagnose bone 
disease, is not a .very sensitive technique, since only a 
decrease in the absorption of X-rays indicates whether 
bone density has decreased. It is Todds complaint that 
these photographs do nothing more than indicate that 
microstructural changes in the bone tissue are occurring, 
but furnish no further information about the magnitude 
of the change or the microstructure. At the present time 
ultrasonic techniques have detected blood clots in the 
eye, and it is Todds thesis that a discontinuity in the 
amplitude of an ultrasonic wave pulse could, for exam
ple, indicate some change in the density of the bone 
microsttrcture. Next year at Case Western, Todd will 
continue to study bio-materials. Im contemplating a 
Ph.D., but I dont know if I will continue work on this 
project, since ultrasonics isnt my field of specialty.
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
PASSOVER INFORMATION FOR 
STUDENTS & FACULTY
iBtatrn
Those students wishing Passover home hospitality for Wednesday, 
March 26 and Thursday, March 27, should call the Hillel Office. All 
those wishing home hospitality for April 2 and/or 3, should call the
Hillel Office.
Those wishing Passover meals at the Hillel Dining Club, March 31 
through April 3, call the Hillel Office for reservations.
Cafe Hillel will be open for lunch March 26 and 27.and also March 31 
through April 3.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1975Page 9
Michelle Mad off a portrait
by Roberta Richardson
The scene is a small, rich private university and in it, a 
small writing class. The genre is new journalism and the 
task-to interview Michelle Madoff. The areas super
crusader, gadfly, and bane to the Corporate Powersa 
nice, middle-aged Jewish lady whose husband is a doc
tor.
There is blood in the air, twenty over-eager students 
ready to take a bite out of the leg of the local celebrity. 
There should be long, rambling, wordy questions; im
possible to untangle, asked by these unweaned newspups,'.b.ut there arent. She will tie knots in these 
puppies tails.
Michelle Madoff is a slender woman; you think her 
tall until you see her standing next to someone. You are 
surprised by her frailty. She is some forty years old, 
attractive and looks younger than her years in good, 
middle-class style. A crest of gray streaked hair crowns a 
long face. Her clothes are expensive but subtle in style and 
conservative.
Miss Madoffthis is to answer a bet I have with
someonewhat is the most polluted city in the U.S.? 
First question, and we are off...
TRAPEZE
She moves out of her slouch, leans forward in her 
chair, throws a quick smile to the room and opens her 
mouth:
PARTICULATE-DRY QUENCHINGNOCTURNAL INVERSIONS-SCRUBBERS-J&L 
-U.S. STEEL-COKE OVENS spew forth.
Pink quiana arms flash, gold bangled bracelets cut the 
air. Bang! her little fist hits the table.
They call me the Housewife with a Hatchet, the 
Voice of Venom, a gadfly, a witch with a capital B.
She grabs her belt, a gold lions head buckle shines, 
and pulls herself upright in her chair.
We have created our own monster... and her 
hands chop the air.
I fix on her mouth; when she does close it the lips 
tense. She holds back the next words and shifts in her 
seat. Her teeth grind.
I imagine her in a confrontation with the presidents 
of J&L and U.S. Steel. Executives, used to long, serious 
presentations; all handled with the proper decorum. And 
in jumps Michelle Madoff:
CO-CONSPIRATORS-VESTED INTERESTS 
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS-NIXON MENTALITYLIES,LIES,LIES-I HAVE ASTHMAI GET CALLS AT 
3 AM FROM CHOKING CHILDREN!-I CANT 
BREATHE MOMMY!
She points her finger and the executives cringe and 
cry, Somebody get this woman out of here!
One hour later, Miss Madoff is leaving. She forgets a 
paper and leaves again. She forgets her purse and returns 
again. Then back again to get her folder.
Thank you so much for having me. Oh my God! I 
have to hurrythanks again, and clutching her folder, 
scuttles off to the next meeting.
Clocks, taxi meters
Heart beats and windshield wipers
Metronome moments
Haiku written on the way 
to La Guardia Airport.
by Alice Halliday
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
LATIN AMERICAN LITERARY REVIEW 
CONFERENCE ON WOMEN WRITERS 
FROM LATIN AMERICA
SATURDAY-SUNDAY 
MARCH 15-16,1975
1
Y% Graduate School of 
 Industrial Administration 
Saturday - Auditorium
10:30 Opening Session
1:30 Theater Session
3:30 Poetry Session
Free to the Public
Poetry ReadingSunday - 
Skibo Wherrett 
Room
10:00Nineteenth Century Session
11:15Novel Session
2:00Afro-Cuban Session
3:00Special Session
Rosario Castellanos
L4:00Panel Discussion with
Women Authors
For further information contact:
Yvette Miller, Ibarra, ext. 268 
Carnegie-Mellon University: (412) 621-2600
SLEUTH
the inside story of the FBI
Lecture/Demonstration 
Wherrett Room 
Wednesday, March 19
sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS...................................................7:00 P.M.  Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ........................................................................Tech House
(M thru F5:00 P.M.) (T, Th8:00 A.M.) (W.F12 NOON)
(in skibo 39)
Lenten Prayer ServiceTues. 7:30 P.M. at Tech House 
The Community House is the Tech House *5125 Margaret Morrison
RESUMES
. .designed just for youl" 
Student Specials
Phone: 281-4020 or write
Hughes & Wilden, Inc.
Resume Division
2900 Kppers Building Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
Page 10March 11, 1975TRAPEZE
A Sense of History
Major Hornbostel's Baby
by John Mangano
Henry Hornbostels thirty year affair with Pittsburgh 
was fated to be consummated from the moment Andrew 
Carnegie announced a nationwide competition among 
architects for the honor of designing his first class 
technical school. Once Pittsburgh had agreed to provide 
land, Carnegie would be willing to sink a large portion of 
his gross income for the year 1900 (60,000,000 tax-free 
dollars) into his dream school. It would be concrete 
evidence of his belief that wealth sould be distributed 
among the people for the betterment of mankind.
Hornbostel, upon his graduation from Columbia 
Universtiy in 1891, travelled to Paris, where he spent 
four years at what was then considered an integral part 
of every architects educationthe Ecole des Beaux 
Artes. It didnt take him long to establish a name as one 
of the most brilliant draftsmen of his day.
The thirty-two acre cabbage farm Pittsburgh had 
donated was miraculously transformed by Hornbostel 
into an ideal location for a school honored with the 
name Carnegie Tech. The renderings which clinched 
for him the design competition offer an occasional 
glimpse of the present-day CMU campus. An enormous 
structure, where Fine Arts now stands, dominates the 
landscape, but the impressive tower of Machinery Hall 
was yet to be devised. A womans quadrangle, joining 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison Streets was also in the 
original design. The main entrance to the proposed mall 
was to be over an elaborate bridge above Frew Street.
Once Hornbostels plans were accepted, no time was 
lost in execution. From the moment Director Hammerschlags wife turned the first spadeful of earth, cream 
brick, polychrome terra cotta and low hanging bracketed 
tile roofs were the order of the day
Early in the century, a large ravine separated the 
campus from the corrupting influences of the outside 
world. The most disagreeable feature of Tech, com
-----
Jx. <
Designed in 1906, the revised plan for Carnegie Tech featured an eight story exhibition and office 
tower (shown at top of the plan) which would have afforded an excellent view of Henry 
HornbosteTs masterpiece.
mented a student in its early days, has been the getting 
to it. One solution Hornbostel suggested in his revised 
plan of 1906, was a giant causeway extending from 
Morewood Avenue straight through the heart of campus. 
Beneath the causeway would stand a gymnasium and 
field house, opening out onto a stadium, situated in the 
general vicinity of the present-day tennis courts. This 
project was a cause of much debate, and was ultimately 
abandoned due to the $180,000 budget needed for the 
project. A gymnasium was not to be realized until 1922.
Undaunted, Henry Hornbostel resigned from his 
teaching post at Columbia University and, at the in
vitation of the trustees, came to Tech as the first head of 
the Department of Architecture.. He was to remain at 
Tech, on and off, for the next thirty years, setting up 
headquarters in the old wooden building (later destroyed 
to make way for the library), which he christened The
Atelier.
In 1912, construction began on the building in which 
Hornbostel took the greatest interest, and was said to be 
the first to include all of the arts under one roof. The 
Fine Arts Building reflected Hombostels main in
fluences more strongly than any other on campusthe 
high-ceilinged grand concourses, the octagonal museum 
rooms and the oval theatre. His own technique, the 
constant change of level, added interest and variation to 
the dynamic composition of the interior. As James Van 
Trump of the Pittsburgh Historical Society says, This 
device contributes... a variety of vista and points of 
view at once classical and Romantic, ordered and yet 
oblique and irregular. These looming tenebrous halls are 
akin to the vaulted visions of Piranesi and Hubert 
Robert, and they suggest, acceptably and with some 
modern improvements, an imperial and ancient past.
The original plan of 1900 called for a totally enclosed mall.
Y
< ' -

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
March 11,1975Page 11
The five semi-circular niches which dominate the 
buildings facade were planned as homages to the five 
great periods of artGothic, Greek, Roman, Renaissance 
and Moorish. Unfortunately, the project was abandoned 
before completion for lack of funds. The one completed 
bay , representing the Renaissance, was executed by an 
Italian craftsman at a cost of $50,000.
The central Roman alcove serves as the main entrance 
into the neo-classical kingdom which is the great en
trance hall. An encyclopedic history of the arts is avail
able in the ceiling frescoes, while embedded in the mar
ble pavement are the floor plans of the worlds great 
architectural masterpieces. And then there is the oval 
theatre, the only one of its kind in the world. It is said 
that Andrew Carnegie did not want a theatre in his 
building, but Hornbostel himself persuaded him other
wise.
Machinery (Hammerschlag) Hall was a late addition 
to the campus plan, but it has been hailed by Van 
Trump as Hornbostels masterpiece and monument. It 
Is... the apex and measure of the talents of its 
archtect. Built in 1912-13 (the original structure was 
erected in 1906 to house the power plant), its famous 
tower, which has become a symbol of the school, serves 
a practical as well as an aesthetic purpose. When ,asked 
by the building committee why he had built this circular 
temple to house machinery and to camoflauge a smoke
stack, Hornbostel told them that this motive was used
in the past as an expression of love.
In 1908 Hornbostel was declared a winner in the 
design competition for the expansion of Pitt. His con
ception included a multi-level complex connected by 
ramped roads. Along with the two schools he was de
signing, Hornbostel also found time to create the 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall (1907), Rodef 
Shalom Temple (1906) and the City-County Building 
(1916). He had a vision of Peramon-in-Oakland, but 
the construction of Pitts bizarre Cathedral of Learning 
(described by Frank Lloyd Wright as the biggest keep off 
the grass sign ever built) destroyed his dream of an 
architectually unified city.
Many incoming freshmen are told that Carnegie Tech 
was designed to resemble a ship, but there is no record 
to certify that this metaphor was intended. The archives 
show that in 1912, the federal government presented the 
bow ornament of the USS Pennsylvania to the school. 
The bronze ornament was installed on a concrete bow 
jutting over Panther Hollow, west of Machinery Hall. 
This, coupled with the stack above it, and the outdoor 
theatre on Tech Street, suggests a rather bow-heavy ship 
on a course for the rear wall of Carnegie Institute.
'Another myth derived from the unique composition 
of the early campus claims that Administration (Baker) 
Hall was built that way so that if the institution failed 
as a college, it could easily be converted into a factory. 
The eighth of a mile of corridors slopes rather than
having intermittent steps so that heavy apparatus might 
be moved in and out of the labs more easily. But the 
long corridors and the bays were also dictated by the 
subnormal amount of sunshine that Pittsburgh receives.
Hornbostel served as a major in World War I, earning 
the title by which he was afterwards addressed. His 
duties included research in chemical warfare. After the 
war, he designed several important Pittsburgh buildings: 
the Schenley Apartments (1922), the University Club 
(1925), and in association with Eric Fisher Wood, Web
ster Hall Hotel (1926) and the George Westinghouse 
Memorial (1928). On the national scene, Major Horn
bostel designed New Yorks Williamsburg, Queensborough and Hell Gate bridges, and the Warren Harding 
Memorial in Marion, Ohio.
When Hornbostel died in 1961 at the age of 94, 
James Van Trump wrote The long span of his life has 
enforced, by default, the silence of his architectural 
contemporaries, but his former students will recall him 
as a vivid personality and an inspiring teacher ... He was 
an extraordinarily colorful figure! Both his character and 
his buildings had style, a certain verve and flare. For a 
time, his architecture was in eclipse, but there are now 
signs that the dignity, the originality and the elegance, 
even at times, the grandeur of his work are coming to be 
appreciated at their true worth. For us at Tech, the 
impress of his talent and personality is indelible. Si 
monumentus requiris, circumspice.
The predominant architectural motive in the design and 
construction of [The Fine Arts Building] was the thought that 
the best way to teach a knowledge and appreciation of art, is to 
let the student see, in his immediate environment, to what 
| degree of excellence art itself can attain. 
 The Carnegie Tech Guidebook 
of 1915
Information On Aliyah 
A CONFERENCE ABOUT LIFE 
IN ISRAEL FOR THE YOUNG 
AND THE YOUNG AT HEART
Sunday, March 23, 1975
from 2-5 p.m.
Jewish Community Center 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Information: Call Roni Ofer, 683-727?.
PASSOVER SEDER 
AT A PRIVATE HOME
Or
WITH THE CONGREGATION 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 26
Be Rodef Shalom's Guest 
For a Reservation
Call 621 6566 
Before March 20
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWiSH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
BAGEL &LOX BRUNCH 
11A.M. SUNDAY. MARCH 16
Room 608  Student Union  Duquesne University
$1.00 for food or just come for the disc ussion led by: 
PROFESSOR NAHMOD - Duquesne Law School

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 March 11, 1975TRAPEZE
story by Julio Vera
Ocean
The water, paper white, brimmed over and rested. The 
and floated underneath the edges of the waves. The sky 
was sinking and blending with the sea. Or so I thought. 
Because when Victor, chalky Victor shouted into view 
everything blurred. And again my patio echoed: You 
:ant abuse me! These nerves, nerves, nerves ... Not like 
iiis! I allowed his reprimands to flow over me, to blush 
me. I told him my blood was draining from me. I 
motioned with my wrist. I hollowed out a place in my 
pillow. He withstood. He drank heavily in the after
noons, took short naps, waited by the door. He was an 
angel. But his ocean tossed. Though he walked it skill
fully it too revolted against him.
Twigs
Victor and I drag twigs in the sand: Our cottage is 
being dismembered by the weather. Our groceries are 
diminishing. Our car is not in working order. Our money 
is useless on the shelf and dresser. Our television is lost 
in the garage. Our lives have been laid to rest in the 
mailbox. Our friends are quiet. Jungles twist around us. 
We wade in the Gulf.
Stones
I took to writing once to a girlfriend of mine who lived 
in Clearwater. She told me much about her desire to quit 
smoking since her husband, a government employee of 
some sort, had died of cancer. Soon afterwards she died 
too. Her liver turned to stone. When I am in my gray 
patio I am reminded of her. Now Ive taken to writing to 
myself. And Victor writes me into his stories. I am not 
content living in his cas I tell him this. He bows his 
head. I cannot believe him. It tears him. His madness 
drives him to stealing looks into my diary. I have, 
understandably, lost my trusting smile. My scrambled 
eggs have poker faces. Sundays I sit in my patio. I write 
my side. I release. I drain white blood. The concrete 
slabs are my blotters.
Undercurrents
Disappearances have occured in this oceanside cottage 
which can not easily be explained. A wine glass was 
broken last night in the kitchen while I slept. I am raped 
by strangers. Thefts have taken place here. Who does 
these things now that Victor has taken another room in 
the house? EXPLANATIONS ARE IN ORDER! (I write 
these things down because it is dangerous to stay quiet 
in situations like these.)
Temple University: Tyler School of Art in Rome
ACADEMIC YEAR OR SEMESTER ABROAD
Painting, Drawing, Printmaking, Sculpture,
Art History, Italian, Humanities 
School and Pensioni short walk from Spanish Steps 
Cultural trips to other Italian art centers 
Graduate or Undergraduate university credit
For catalog write to Box 2910, Philadelphia, Pa. 19126
BNAI BRITH HILLEL -JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
WINTER LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES 
AT CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
MARCH 18.........."THE JOY OF ART"
PROFESSOR BERNARD SACHS, Assistant Professor 
Paintnq & Sculpture, Carnegie-Melion' University
- TUESDAYS AT 11:30 A.M. -
Room 100 SKIBO Carnegie-Mellon Student Union 
(Lunch, $1.15 is optional. Speaker begins at 11:45 a.m.)
** ALL GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS and FACULTY WELCOME **
Visions
Thefts have been replaced by visions of an ocean. In that 
ocean I see Victor who can no longer speak. The water 
washes him white. He sends me hearts wrapped in paper. 
They are transmitted by laser. I have spoken to men 
from other planets who tell me Victor is my husband. I 
want to believe that he is part of me but in my visions he 
vanishes. A man who talks on the radio told me by 
phone that these might not be visions at all.
Watercolor
She sells seashells by the seashore.
She wears a hat to shade the sun.
She has few customers.
Her husband catches her near the water.
She paints paintings of watercolor.
She paints visions.
She envisions her children.
Her husband catches her dribbling.
She roams.  f 4
She crawls because her husband sees a seashell vendor 
not a painter of watercolors.
Her husband catches her and she moans.
Perhaps he will see her misery.
Waves
Waves brush the sand with wreaths. I have my tea in the 
morning and trace the seaweed bracelets. The ocean 
pulls my concentration away. The undercurrents whip. I 
remain suspended and Victor is dizzy with desperation. 
The waves are never ending.
Victor
Victor says memorable things: There is a hospital in 
Sarasota. Youve been good to me. Maybe Ive misunder
stood. Tell me you remember me. OH PLEASE! Victor 
is writing a story and I know, I know I am in it. Victor is 
getting older. He no longer dreams. I have dedicated my 
life to him. My illness cuts into him. I know these things. 
But I cannot explain his kindness. He writes for me now. 
He buries me in papers. He allows me to drink on 
occasion. His serenity is frightening.
Driftage
the last time I will write, for Victor has told me 
truths which, though painful to him I am sure, have 
begun to kill me rapidly. There are no explanations for 
our blunders. The floating wreck has turned to drift
wood. So I have died. I hope. I pray that Victor will 
finish writing me into his story. He calls it his apology; 
his apologue. He loved me truly. Victor. He called me 
martyr. He is sentimental. Believe him when he tells you 
that he loved me.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
March 11, 1975Pag 13
k^/'k'.lD - fl.hon
Aid/nHfA52 m blackhewep
GE^fEfEME AND.. - ^
Engineers and Scientists with advanced
Here are 7 reasons to join a company you probably never heard of
CAMPUSINTERVIEWSSOONVisitPlacement OfficeNow!
3Marcm
CORPORATION
Fifteen years ago, we decided to make our reputation first and 
talk aboCTt it later. Now it's later "following years of unprece
dented growth and achievement. Today The BDM Corporation is 
operating at a $20-million annual level with 700 people in four 
Scientific and Technical Centers and 11 other locations across 
the nation and in Europe.
What do we do, and why is it important to you?
BDM applies modern methods of science and systems technol
ogy to military, governmental, and industrial planning, policy
making, and problem-solving. We re talking about major national 
programs. Studying the impacts of U.S. offshore oil development. 
Confronting a multitude of tasks involving the worldwide com
mand/control/communications system known as WWMCCS Per
forming long-range applied research. Defining some of tomor
rows national goals and priorities. Getting our feet dusty direct
ing operational tests and evaluations. And these are just a few 
random examples.
Yes, we perform most of our work for the government and the 
defense establishment.' If this turns you completely off, read 
no further.
But if you are intrigued by the chance to make positive and sub
stantive contributions to solving some of today's biggest and 
knottiest problems, we can keep you happy and busy. You'll 
be doing important things almost from the start. You'll be working 
with colleagues you can respect, in an atmosphere that may be 
casual one minute and supercharged the next, but is always 
professional.
The people we needTo help meet our growth objectives, BDM is now seeking 
ENGINEERS APPLIED MATHEMATICIANS 
PHYSICISTS COMPUTER SCIENTISTS
Among the engineers and scientists, we re looking for education 
and career interests in communications, electronics, electro
magnetics. electro-optics, aerospace, antennas, power, thermal, 
fluid flow, and industrial/OR specialties.
We should point out that one-dimensional purists' will not be 
comfortable at BDM. But men and women who have demon
strated an interest in the world outside the classroom and lab
oratory-along with superior academic achievement-will find 
as much opportunity and challenge as they can handle.
Growth in a matrix organization
Are you familiar with the matrix organization concept? If not, 
our organization chart-and its frequent changes-will look odd 
to you We dont have space to explain it here, but adaptable, 
multi-faceted scientists and engineers will find that our matrix 
organization constantly opens up new growth opportunities-. The 
rigid traditionalist, on the other hand, won't like it. Don't say we 
didn't warn you.
Money and ail the rest
Naturally we re going to offer you a competitive salary (which 
won t be tied to some rigid nomogram devised by our account
ants), plus a package of competitive fringe benefits including 
educational assistance and the other usual goodies.
Where were at
BDM's two largest operations are in Vienna, Virginia Ca pleasant 
residential suburb of Washington, D C.) and Albuquerque, New 
Mexico. You will spend at least the first year at one of these lo
cations.
To recap the reasons why you should think about a BDM career, 
consider. (1) the opportunity quickly to play key roles in nationally 
significant programs. (2) BDM's demonstrated technical excel
lence in ever-widening program areas, (3) your own freedom to 
excel, personally and professionally, to grow as quickly as your 
talents allow. [4) attractive remuneration and benefits programs, 
(5) a professional but not regimented atmosphere, 6) a supe
rior staff and management, (7) choice locations
That s our story. What s yours? Visit the Placement Office NOW 
to arrange a campus interview If our interview slots are filled, 
please send a resume to: College Relations Coordinator, The 
BDM Corporation 1920 Aline Avenue. Vienna, Virginia 22180. 
An equal opportunity employer m/f.
(formerly Braddock. Dunn and McDonald, Inc.]
NEED HELP 
planning an H&SS education?
Upperclass students are 
available for information and 
advice.
The Student Advisors Program 
PH 17C, 12:30-4:30, Mon-Fri 
or call 621-2600 x8710
There's No Place 
Like Home . .
and if you'd like to go 
home for the Spring 
vacation, you should visit 
the CMU Travel Office. 
You can make reser
vations on a plane, bus, 
train, ship or whatever.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE 
Room 40-A - Skibo 
Open: 1-5 pm, Mon. - Fri.
A Phi O Bus tickets also 
available
RUGS
for 
less
1000 Room-Size Rugs
9x12s: $15-$19-S29-S39 !1iAlso 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x1 5s, etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental, f
Indian and furry styles
CHASE'S RUGS T
4313 Liberty Awe, Bloomfield j
/
(54-C bus lets off at the store) 1
Open daily 10 to 6 p.m., i
Friday to 8 p.m.,
Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATION DIRECTIONS 621-1025 ;

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1975 Page 14-
Why not investigate
What's really happening 
at CMU?
You can write news, 
Features, entertainment, 
sports, free-lance
or
work on lay-out, 
photography, design, 
business
Join the TARTAN
There s something here * 
for everyone.
maybe you just want to 
write us a letter.
Call 682-4557 
or Stop by 
Room 50
If you think Kodak is just pretty pictures,
When a chest x-ray shows that you have a 
potential killer like TB or cancer, its not a pretty 
picture. But its an important picture because it 
can help the doctor detect and catch the killer 
in time.
When doctors are out to catch these poten
tial killers, they want the sharpest, clearest x-ray 
films they can get. And thats why people at 
Kodak spend so many hours creating new and 
better x-ray film equipment Already, the results 
include convenience for the patient, economy 
for the hospital, an even more useful tool for the
radiologistand, most important, reduced radi
ation exposure.
Researching and creating better x-ray films 
is good for our business, which is why we went 
into them in the first place. But it does our soci
ety good, toowhich isnt a bad,feeling. After all, 
our business depends on our societyso we 
care what happens to it.
Kodak. More than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

TUC TARTflM-Morrb 11 1Q7R KathyKh S
For over 130 years weve been using 
the word Equality in our advertising. 
Once again, wed like to tell you what 
we mean by it.
Our brewery in 1844. o
Pabst. Since 1844. 
The quality has always 
come through.
Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can 
get. A quality achieved only by using the finest ingredients 
and by adhering to the most rigid of brewing standards.
In Milwaukee, the beer capital of the world, Pabst Blue 
Ribbon continues to be the overwhelming best seller 
year after year. Blue Ribbon outsells its nearest 
competitor nearly five to one. Thats why we feel 
weve earned the right to challenge any beer.
So heres the Pabst challenge: Taste and compare 
the flavor of Blue Ribbon with the beer youre
drinking and learn what Pabst quality in beer 
is all about. But dont take our word for it. 
Taste our word for it.
PABSI BREWING COMPANY. MILWAUKEE WIS . PEORIA HEIGHTS. ILL NEWARK N J LOS ANGELES. CAL PABST GA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975
of Winners and Darkhorses
by Quiff
Lots of new releases in the last few 
months. I thought Id try to review a few 
of the bigger artists.
Englands supergroup, Yes, has a new 
release on the stands. The album is Relayer 
and it comes off as a wee bit of a dis
appointment. Though the main concepts 
stem from the groups past success form
ulas, Relayer is a far cry from the cele
brated Close to the Edge album. Most of 
the attempts by the band to capitalize on 
catchy musical phrases usually come across 
as merely dull and repititous.
This is surprising, considering the great 
success of Yes. Yes has always been known 
for its astounding musical exploration. 
The> are absolutely the first group to com
bine serious pop music with English jazz 
and strands of the great classical masters.
Now Relayer is an important step in the 
career of this band because this is their first 
effort without the help of keyboard vir
tuoso Rick Wakeman. Yes must find new 
directions if they hope to sustain the kind 
of appeal that they deserve. Relayer just 
does not cut the creative mustard that this 
band has achieved in the past. The whole 
first side is dedicated to one number en
titled The Gates of Delirium. Any way 
that you look at this cut, its a tough piece 
of music to digest. The main reason being 
that this cookie is half-baked and very 
stale. After the opening minutes, the band 
seems to collapse into a donut hole of 
mediocrity. As a matter of fact, it is not 
until the final minutes of this side that the 
group really shows their mettle. As the side 
draws to a close, the tempo slows and some 
lovely soft sounds come easing through my 
recording system. An important note about 
this beautiful drop of music: the credit 
does not fully belong to Yes. Ive been 
informed that the melody was borrowed 
very subtly from The Way We Weres 
theme song.
Side two is not much more exciting. 
There are two songs, Soundchaser and 
To Be Over that seem to provide more 
sporadic brilliance than the rest of the 
boring set. Soundchaser starts off rather 
excitingly when the group entangles their 
sound with some fast-paced jazz. The 
drummer (Alan White) does everything but 
drop his cymbals into the whole recipe. 
Somehow, the group still manages to let 
their little bit of success slip through their 
hands.
The final cut, To Be Over, probably 
provides the most listening enjoyment. A 
superb steel guitar solo by Steve Howe is 
easily the standout performance of the 
song and even the entire side. I cant think 
of another really nice thing to say here and 
that seems to be the problem of the whole 
album. The listener may hear hear this 
record many many times yet nothing ever 
sticks.
In the end, Yes is treading on scorched 
ground. They are plowing salt into the land 
that groups such as King Crimson have 
already sown. Patrick Moraz cannot hope 
to replace Rick Wakeman if he does not 
assume a greater responsibility in the 
group. Vocalist Jon Anderson and guitarist
Steve Howe seem to be carrying a larger 
load but they simply are not living up to 
past performances. After all, any good 
cook knows that people get tired of left
overs.
Ex-Beatle George Harrison has a brand 
new release and this record also seems to 
be suffering from lack of creativity. The 
new release is entitled Darkhorse and Im 
amazed that Harrison would be connected
with such a bland recording. Darkhorse just 
comes off sounding like it was written and 
recorded in the same afternoon. Calling it a 
rush job would be an understatement. It is 
safe to bet that Harrison wanted an album 
to correspond with his United States tour. 
The shame of it is, that he released this 
record knowing that he was lacking enough 
new material to sustain top-notch enter
tainment. Many critics have already taken 
the liberty to say that George is really not 
as talented as he was acclaimed to be. 
Many have started to blame it all on his 
Hari Krishna influences. Honestly, it has 
me a bit puzzled.
There are a couple of bright points to 
the record, and those bright points can be 
summed up in four words: Tom Scott and 
band. Yep, Joni Mitchells backup band 
delivers the only suitable knockout punch
theMCAT
Review Seminar
Intensive Weekend 
Preparation 
for the May 3rd MCAT Taught by 
Practicing Physicians
The instructing Physician offers the 
prospective medical student a thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as well as an 
evaluation of the candidate s strengths 
and weaknesses Each section of the 
Test is extensively simulated and care
fully reviewed.
Complete tuition, including materials, is 
$95.00
State College April 5 ft 6 
Philadelphia April 12 & 13 
Pittsburgh April 19 ft 20
for further Information 
Call collect
814-435-6521
or write:
MCAT Review Center,
32 Gr mercy Park South 
New York, N.Y. 10003
on the whole disc. The first cut is Hari's 
On Tour. This is the cut that Harrison 
opened every concert with. Though it is 
shining jazz/rock instrumental it marks the 
peak of the album-the rest just doesnt 
live up to this first cut. The remainder of 
Darkhorse just seems very banal and no 
exceptional lyrics or guitar work by Har
rison can be found. Discontinuity becomes 
the albums theme and no amount of help 
from Eric Clapton or Billy Preston can 
prevent this album from appearing boring. 
A very strange version of Bye Bye Love 
can be found on side one. If the title 
doesnt ring a bell, try checking Bridge 
Over Troubled Waters for a much better 
version of this song. The title cut, Dark
horse is a farily good song but not worthy 
of being a successful single. Ding Dong 
which has become the other single is as 
silly as its name.
George Harrison has become the victim 
of his own obsessions. His bitter dedication 
has left him an incredibly uncreative 
musical monk. His continuous chanting 
and non-direction has left me wondering 
whether he is a first-rate artist or a thirdrate one.
Place: Gymnasium 
Time: 7:30 P.M. 
Date: Monday, March 17
The worlds greatest rock and roll band 
is back at it again. Their latest release has 
zoomed up the charts and if you dont 
know who Im talking about, then youve 
been cooped up in the comp, center too 
long. Yes, the Rolling Stones have had me 
wondering with Its Only Rock n Roll.
In truth, Ive had so many mixed t 
emotions about the album that Ive re
served judgement as long as I could. Im 
pretty bad at first judgements of albums by 
the Stones for reasons that Im not even 
sure of. Its Only Rock n Roll performs a 
few basic requirements that are essential to 
a good Rolling Stones album. There are a 
majority of good, hard rocking songs, 
spread out over the course of the album. A 
ballad or two can be found, and if you 
happen to like things like Wild Horses or 
Angie that should make ya happy. Top 
it all off with a little spicy experimentation 
and there is your typical Stones record.
If You Cant Rock Me kicks things 
off real fine. Now departed lead guitarist 
Mick Taylor just continues to find that 
smooth groove with his high-powered lead 
guitar licks. If the first cut doesnt grab ya, 
relax -because one of the years finest 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975-Page-17
*- V*. S * 1.
t '
 x* <Vis  
* \y> frt
THE 
^ ETES 
LiNLT
is
J)
Yeah, I know. You dont watch TV and 
even if you did, you wouldnt read the 
TARTAN for a TV review. Ive heard it all 
before, dozens of times. Still, please read 
on. 1 have great news, reader. Something 
very important is happening on television. 
So far its a secret, but soon everyone will 
know. Why not be one of the first?
Actually, it was bound to happen. Soon
er or later, someone had to come up with 
an alternative to the depressing sameness of 
the programming of the three major net
works. (You remember their initials.) That 
alternative is PBS, the Public Broadcasting 
System, and theyve been producing con
sistently excellent programming for quite a 
while now. Its good to know that at least 
one network has discovered that educa
tion and entertainment dont have to 
be mutually exclusive. In Pittsburgh, PBSs 
affiliate is WQED, Channel 13. Dont be
superstitious. Tune in!
As anyone whos ever walked up Fifth 
Avenue can tell you, educational TV and 
PBS have their roots in Pittsburgh. QED 
was the first listener-sponsored TV station 
and the first to broadcast programs for the 
classroom. Perhaps this accounts for 
peoples distrust in it. PBS used to be the 
only thing that could shut any of my grade 
school teachers up for more than five 
minutes and, in those days, it did so in a 
way which made me appreciate how good 
some of those teachers were. Only a tele
vision was duller to learn from than Miss 
Feddern.
Though the classroom approach 
Has been modified somewhat, PBS still 
aims for an audience of people who are 
more interested in learning than they are in 
wasting a few hours in front of the tube. 
They have captured the two-to-twelve age
group with imaginative shows like Sesame 
Street, Zoom and The Electric Company. 
Drama buffs have been amazed by the ex
cellence of Masterpiece Theatre. Their sur
prise is understandable, too. People dont 
expect high quality art or well-researched 
science on TV, but PBS is not governed 
by what people expect, but, instead, by 
what theyll appreciate.
One of PBSs best programs is Nova, 
developed by affiliate WGBH in Boston. 
The major networks have practically 
abandoned science programs altogether, 
but PBS has proven how interesting they 
can be. Nova more than makes up for the 
shortage w;+h shows that take people into 
the laboratory, letting them witness, first
hand, what scientists are up to.
A recent episode investigated the 
possibility of life on Mars. In itself, that is 
not a very new idea, but Nova visited with 
several scientists who are seeking the key 
to the origin of life on Earth, including one 
who, by duplicating the volcanic and at
mospheric conditions of the pre-human 
age, has been able to produce amino acids 
in the lab. Last Sundays show dramatically 
illustrated the availablility of information 
on nuclear bombs by asking an undergrad
uate to design such a device using only 
published materials. His attempts were 
successful, the point made. Other than 
stimulating and well-produced content, 
though, Nova makes great use of photo
micrography, satellite photography and 
research films, all of which bridge the enor
mous gap between science and the average 
TV watcher. Nova succeeds at making 
science interesting. PBS succeeds at making 
a lot of things that are usually dull inter
esting.
Im always being left notes by cultured 
students telling me to look into certain 
QED programs. Until recently, though. Ive 
been a victim of the major network 
hypnosis which substitutes commercials 
and pop culture for meaningful broadcast
ing. A day with PBS wont give you as 
many laughs as an evening of sitcoms, or as 
many tears as an afternoon of soap operas, 
but it will leave you with the feeling that 
youve learned something about yourself 
and the world you live in. The network and
11 of its affiliates survive on the contribu
tions of the audience and major foun
dations. So, if youre a bored TV watcher 
or a non-watcher altogether, give them a 
chance. I cant guarantee that PBS will 
increase your intelligence, but I can assure 
you that, unlike ABC. CBS or NBC, it 
wont insult it.
TUBE TATTLES: TV Guide says that 
there are some big changes for the Bunkers. 
The mortgage is paid up and Mike has 
graduated (finally) and landed a job. Could 
this be CBSs way of preparing us for a cast 
break-up?
I Women: 
Close up 75
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12
11:00-12:00 pm Wherrett Room 
Frn: "The Emerging Woman"
Documentary about the history of women 
in the United States, showing the varied 
economic, social and cultural experiences 
of women; how she felt about her con
ditions; and how her sex, race and class 
often determined her priorities.
11:30-12:30 pm Room 45 
Violence Against Women"
Nancy Kirk-Gormley, Chairperson of 
NGW's Task Force dealing with Violence 
Against Women. What breeds violence 
why is it directed against women? How are 
women treated by society; what effect 
does it have on women? And why do 
women have so little recourseand what is 
being done to change this.
2:00-3:00 pm Wherrett Room 
Sex Discrimination"
Ruth Bader Ginsburg,* School of Law, 
Columbia University. A discussion of legal 
aspects of sex discrimination* Ms. Ginsburg 
as coordinator of the Women's Rights Pro
ject of the American Civil Liberties Union, 
has argued a number of landmark discrim
ination cases before the Supreme Court of 
the United States.
4:00-5:00 pm Wherrett Room 
*What Every Woman Should Know about 
Pennsylvania Law"
Speakers Panel.
Representatives will discuss community 
property laws, divorce, wills, income tax, 
social security, keeping your own name, 
establishing credit, family relations.
8:00-9:30 pm Wherrett Room
"The Political ProcessHow to Change the
Law"
Molly Yard Garrett, Democratic Party 
Organizer, Margie MacGregor, Women's 
Political Caucus; Ruth Shapiro, League of 
Women Voters; Jane Thompson, former 
Candidate for State Senate; Dixie Wulf, 
Legislative Assistant to Congressman 
Heinz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 13
10:00-11:00 am Wherrett Room 
"Money Matters for the Working Woman"
Helen O'Bannon, Associate Dean, CIT, 
CMU; Carol Mallaugh, Stockbroker. Pres
entation of ways to accumulate, hold and 
manage money astutely.
11:15-1:00 pm Wherrett Room 
"Working Women: Should You Organize?"
Film: "Contract, Contract." Renate
Jaegger, Representative, Coalition of Labor 
Women. Workshop will include an histor
ical perspective on women in the American 
work force, an overview of the current 
position of the working woman, the need 
to organize, and the role of the CLVE in 
the women's labor movement.
1:00-2:00 pm Room 45
"Insurance: What Every Woman Should
Know"
Esther Glass, Life Insurance Underwriter; 
Gail Van Stone, Personnel Advisory Ser
vice, CMU. This workshop will explore 
basic questions regarding life and health 
insurance for women.
3:00-4:00 pm Wherrett Room 
"Child Care"
Mary Irwin, Director Child Care Center, 
CMU. Discussion of standards and quah 
ifications for good child care and the re
cent state and federal legislation.
3:00-4:30 pm Room 45
"Women and Management: A SelfDevelopment Workshop"
Mary Beth Peters, Director Management 
and Administrative Office. Courtesy of 
Chatham College; recently nominated by 
President Ford on the Advisory Council on 
Women's Educational Programs.
4:30-6:00 pm Wherrett Room 
"Leadership Roles for Women in 
Education"
Dr. Wilma Smith, School of Education, 
University of Pittsburgh. Respondent 
Panel: Dr. John H. Sandberg, Director 
Teacher Education, CMU; Dr. James M. 
Burk, Superintendent, Fox Chapel Area 
Schools; Mr. Dennis Fantaski, Teacher, 
Penn Hills School District. The challenge 
that Dr. Smith will bring to women is to 
aspire to leadership roles in education.
7:30-8:30 pm Thistle Hall, Gymnasium 
Judo Demonstration, Pam and Paul 
Freeman
8:30-9:30 pm Room 46 
"Women in Journalism."
Susan Reimer, Associated Press, Eileen 
Colianni, Forum. Workshop sponsored by 
the CMU TARTAN.
8:30 Ballroom
Special Premiere for CMU only. John 
Cassavete's Film "A Woman Under the 
Influence"
$2.00 and CMU ID required.
FRIDAY, MARCH 14
9:30-11:00 am Wherrett Room 
"Nutrition and Exercise"
Margaret Gloniger, School of Public 
Health, University of Pittsburgh; Peg 
Russell, Physical Education Department, 
CMU. Discussion of: nutrition and physical 
fitness; the body in relation to sports; diet 
modification; popular diets, weaknesses 
and strengths, Stillman, macrobiotic, 
vegetarian; vitamin myths. Exercise demon
stration will also include suggestions on 
setting up your own fitness program.
11:30-12:15 Wherrett Room 
"Women in Sports"
Joseph Diandra, President, Pennsylvania 
State Education Association, PSEA. Pres
entation of varyingor perhaps not so 
varyingattitudes toward the increased involvment of women and girls in athletics.
2:30-4:30 pm Room 45 
"Women and Health"
Film: "Taking Our Bodies Back." Marilyn 
Goldsmith, Pittsburgh Free Clinic. Film 
and discussion which explores ten critical 
areas of women's health: self-help, birth at 
home, gynecological exam, hysterectomy, 
breast cancer, abortion, minority women, 
drug company attitudes.
5:00-6:00 pm Faculty Lounge **
"Financial Investments for Women, Too?"
Paula Hughes, Vice-President, THOMPSON 
& McKINNON & AUCHINCLOSS & 
COLHMEYER, INC.; Board of Trustees, 
CMU. Discussion of serious, long term fin
ancial investments, including an under
standing of the stock market.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-March 11. 1975
THAT'S ENTERTINMENT-GREEK STYLE
by Claire Lee
The Carnegie Music Hall stage appeared 
anxious in its simplicity. It was waiting. 
The MCs podium, silent and erect, was 
ready in its corner. Along the front, five 
vocal microphones gazed toward the 
heavenly Muses in prayerhoping that the 
gods would grant inspiration and perfec
tion to the performers and their acts. The 
grand piano with its white keys and black 
formal sat majestically on the bare green 
stage. Platforms piled high along the back
ground of towering organ pipes. The aud
ience encircled the stage in many scattered 
groups. The three-level semicircle was rem
iniscent of the Greek amphitheaters where 
crowds of over 10,000 spectators have 
been for countless centuries living dramatic 
and musical experiences.
On February 28, 1975, the Greek trad
ition-one which has continued at CMU for 
70 years-brought together the talents and 
hard work of 15 Greek societies on campus 
in the performance of Greek Sing. At a 
few moments after 8 pm, the lights 
dimmed and the audience hushed. The 
time had come when piano keys would 
sense the touch, and microphones would 
be enveloped by the caressing voices of 
earthy Greeks striving for perfection, pres
tige. and pleasure. The evenings program 
followed to some extent the course of 
Greek drama: a tempting appetizer follow
ed by a climatic entree and consummated 
with a satisfying dessert. It was a very 
varied, but generally ambrosial celebration.
Being first is always difficult and Zeta 
Beta Tau truly deserved a big hand for its 
good attempt at The Impossible Dream. 
Shaving Cream and religion Vatican
Rag (two subjects usually left at home) 
filled Pi Kappa Alphas lips during their 
amateurish, but funny musical comedy 
numbers. They would have been sure hits 
in TV shaving ads and in the minds of the 
more liberal Christians. The memorable 
part of Sigma Nus performance wap 
Atlantis. Bathed in blue moonlight and 
wearing dark robes, the singers transported 
us back to ancient Greece, to the simplicity 
and majesty of the original Greek choruses.
Without any warning (except *the 
announcement of its namewhich was 
sufficient for many), Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
produced to near perfection some mem
orable and lovely melodies from My Fair 
Lady. Their diversified professional chor
eography and their powerful voices totally 
captivated the audience. With a Little Bit 
of Luck, their could easily have been 
ranked in most minds as the most profes
sional performance of the evening.
It was hard to conceive of a show that 
could have successfully followed SAEs 
performance, and yet, Delta Delta Delta 
did it. All the Greek goddesses would have 
been jealous if they saw these beautiful 
ladies and heard their ironic Go Away 
Little Girl, the beautiful and peaceful 
Bless the Beasts and Children, and the 
stimulating and moving Proud Mary. 
Versatile choreography and consistent 
beauty made them a most refreshing event 
to enjoy.
Have you ever been left speechless and 
deprived of every other mode of descrip
tion? If not, you should have seen Beta 
Theta Pis destruction of The Wizard of Oz. 
It was a totally riotus, disastrous celebra
tion of fantasy with living trees, devilish 
hats, and cripples with electrically lighted
ne
singles follows very nicely. Aint Too 
Proud to Beg is a sensational cut and it 
truly sums up the combination of different 
musical ideas that the Stones presernt. Its 
a super rocker and its roots are deeply 
entrenched in rhythm and blues. Listen 
closely and you wont be surprised to hear 
a little jazz influence as well as some 
1970s showmanship. Keith Richards 
summed it up when he described their 
sound as pure Stones country. It sould be 
said that any Stones release is a major 
musical event and Its Only Rock n Roll is 
certainly no exception. The Stones have 
always been important leaders in musical 
trends and it appears that this new album 
seems to reinforce all their previous state
ments. Maybe the Stones are getting old or 
perhaps theyve just found themselves com
fortable in this certain musical situation; 
whatever the case, nobody has to tell the 
Stones how to have a successful album, 
cause they wrote the book.
I thought Id add that though side one is 
easily the stronger of the two sides, second
side has some interesting material too. My 
favorite cut on the whole album is Lux
ury. This is a super rocker that everyone 
can relate to. The words are strictly dec
adent and Jagger is certainly enjoying him
self. Jagger screams that hes working so 
hard to keep his lady in luxury and it sure 
does sound convincing. This, one goes
straight back to Get Off My Cloud.
On this same track, Short and Curly 
is a lot of fun, though If You Really Want 
to be My Friend kinda bogs the whole 
side down because it is so repetitive.
Fingerprint File rounds out the album 
with that little bit of spice that I was 
telling ya about. Very jazzy and the guitars 
simply steal the show. Listen real close, if 
you feel like hearing an original ending.
Theres probably a wealth of mistakes, 
but I find the album to be pretty enjoy
able. If the Rolling Stones have decided to 
rest upon their laurels, then I guess we
need a new definition of what laurels are.
This new Stones effort is only rock n roll 
but I like it.
GIRLS. . . ARE YOU LOOKING 
FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able to teach 
one of the following. Theater Director, Piano Accompanist and singing. Archery, Ten
nis Director, Golf, Photography, Cheerleading, Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. 
Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Skiing Instructor or General Athletics, 
Secretary also needed 
1 __________________________
knuckles. All laws of choreography and 
singing were not only violated, but in fact, 
nonexistent. One came out of it with such 
critical comments as What terrible chor
eography! What mumbled singing! Yet, 
within ones heart, a little unorthodox 
voice was shouting all the time, What a 
show! What a show!
These three were the climactic 
moments, but there were other memorable 
performances. Both mixed group^ (Alpha 
Tau Omega and Kappa Alpha Theta, and 
Phi Kappa Theta and Chi Omega) appeared 
beautifully harmonized and professionally 
choreographed in their numbers. They 
truly let the sunshine in.
Delta Gammas The Unsinkable Molly 
Brown started the second half of the pro
gram. Unfortunately it didnt get far. The 
girls exhibited considerable co-ordination, 
energy and voice projection. Somehow, 
however, the audience was not involved; 
communication was not made.
Two other attempts proved mediocre. Pi 
Lambda Phis When You Say Bud failed 
to stimulate much laughter within the 
audience; it dragged and became flat. Theta 
Xis chorus fitted the fair category. Both 
received polite applause and light smiles.
The sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
with a little more patch-up work, would 
have had a perfect escapist performance of 
Peter Pan. As it was, the singing, swaying 
and dancing were delightful and nostalgic 
of an age which many of us had long
passed through-one that we can only re
live in our dreams and in Never Never 
Land.
Last, but not least, Kappa Sigma 
closed Greek Sing with,, their chorus ren
ditions of Scarborough Fair and Blue 
Skies. Their try at a hat and cane rou
tine in Carolina in the Morning was im
perfect, but a good attempt. Their strong 
resonant singing, however, easily compen
sated for any technical faults.
What had occurred at Greek Sing is 
memorable; it is one of the few times dur
ing the entire school year when all frater
nities and sororities gather under one roof 
for friendly competition. During the rest of 
the time, each society seems mostly to 
keep to itself, and to tis own businesses, 
activities and entertainments. At Greek 
Sing, however, the barriers seem somewhat 
lowered. One could still feel the tension 
between groups underflowing the laughter 
and applause. One could still hear overloud 
cheers and boos from certain parts of the 
audience. Nevertheless, the audience as a 
whole encouraged and applauded the per
formers, who in turn had come to bring 
them all entertainment. In most cases, the 
two communicated and were in theatrical 
harmony. These are the brotherly and sis
terly moments which anyone who was 
present could treasure no matter how tur
bulent the sentiments grew as the time 
drew closer and closer to Greek Swing and 
to the announcements of the winners.
Goodnews
_ from 
Emersons.
Enjoy our delicious Pnme Rib or Sirloin Filet 
dinner. Pnme Rib regularly $5.95, now $4.95. 
Sirloin Filet regularly $4.95, now $3.95.
(Sunday thru Thursday:)
io a Now, heres some even better news.
Well even include a hot Idaho baked potato 
with sour cream and chives.
Surround this feast with salad, all you want 
from our endless salad bar.
And pile on unlimited hot French, rye and 
pumpernickel bread, too.
So have a luscious Sirloin 
Filet with baked potato for only
Or juicy Pnme Rib of Beef au Jus and baked 
potato for only $4.95.
Thru March 31st.
Isnt that good news?EMERSONS"
Cocktails, wine and beer available.
North Hills  4611 McKnight Road  931-6707 
Monroeville  3500 William Penn Highway 824-1440

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAhTAN-March 11, 1975-Page 19
p^t miss the Kiltie Symphony Band's
Vnnual Presidents Concert on March 16 at 
3 00 p.m. at Carnegie Music Hall. The 
concert is a preview of the April 11 concert 
to be performed in New Yorks Carnegie
Hall-The band will perform a variety of 
works from different time periods. Donald 
VVilkins, professor of music at CMU will be 
featured on organ in a concerto piece by 
Saint-Sans and the majestic Crown 
^ Impend March by William Walton.
The Kiltie Symphony Band is a con
glomeration of winds, brass, and 
percussion. The men and women wear the 
traditional Carnegie plaid. Professor Philip 
Catelinet will conduct the band which has 
been acclaimed as one of the nations best 
symphony bands. The band offers its 
audience a unique experience in listening; 
with a varied repertoire, the Kiltie Band 
displays a sound distinct from orchestral 
groups.
Pantagleize, the bitter, touching drama of a
lovable eccentric who unwittingly triggers a 
revohitiftn, will bet! performed by the 
University of Pittsburgh Theatre in a 
three-week run beginning Thursday, March 
6 at 8:30 pm in Stephen Foster Memorial 
Theatre (corner of Forbes and Bigelow).
Reservations are suggested for individ
uals and are required for groups wishing to 
take advantage of reduced rates for per
formances on Thursday evenings and for 
matinees. For reservations, call the Univer
sity Theatre box office beginning on Feb
ruary 24 at 624-4101, from 1 to 5 pm, 
Monday through Saturday. General ad
mission on Thursday evenings is S3; stu
dents $1.50. On Friday and Saturday, gen
eral admission is $3.50; students $2.00.
Pantomimist Dan Kamin will present his 
show, SILENT COMEDY, live at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on March 14 and 15 at 
8:30 pm. Mr. Kamin is a CMU graduate, 
who has performed his one-man shows
across the United States. Tickets are avail
able through Ticketron at Kaufmanns, 
Gimbels, Sears and Hornes (downtown). 
Phone 922-5300. Tickets are $3.00 in ad
vance and $4.00 at the door.
Featuring the vrilliant young violinist,
Daniel Phillips, the Pittsburgh Youth 
Symphony Orchestra will present its 
Annual Spring Concert, conducted by 
Michael Semanitzky, at Heinz Hall, Satur
day, March 15 at 8 pm. Leonard Bern
steins Overture to Candide opens the 
interesting program, followed by the 
Beethoven Violin Concerto in D major 
played by Daniel Phillips. The Howard 
Hanson Symphony No. 2 (Romantic) is the 
major orchestral wc.k of the evening. The 
closing work is the exciting Ravel Borlero which highlights the excellence of the 
principals of the woodwind, brass, per
cussion and string sections of the orchestra.
Each year finds the Pittsburgh Youth 
Symphony Orchestra more acclaimed with 
a growing enthusiastic audience. The 
annual Spring Concert by the Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony Orchestra featuring 
Daniel Phillips, Violinist, will be given at 
Heinz Hall on Saturday, March 15, at 8 
pm. Ticket now on sale at the Heinz Hall 
Box Office and at Hornes. Tickets $6.00, 
$5.00, $4.00.
The International Poetry Forum will
Poetry Forum will present the Clancy 
Brothers and Lou Killen in a special pro
gram of Irish music on March 14, 1974 at
8:00 pm in Carnegie Music Hall. The 
Clancy Brothers, Pat, Tom and Liam, have 
been performing together for twelve years. 
In that time they have made many records, 
performed extensively throughout the 
United States, Canada, Australia and the 
British Isles. Lou Killen has been with the 
Clancys for the past two years. One of the 
leading figures in the English folk revival. 
Lou Killen is from northeast England of 
Irish parents and adds another dimension 
to the Clancvs music with his virtuosity on 
the pennywhistle, concertina and banjo.
Tickets for this special program are 
$6.00, $5.00 and $4.00. Season subscribers 
are entitled to a 25% discount on one 
ticket. Tickets are available at Kaufmanns, 
Gimbels, Hornes, Pitt student Union and 
the Poetry Forum office in Carnegie 
Library in Oakland. For information call 
621-9893.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute will
present an exhibition of photographs by 
Pittsburgh photographer Leonard Schugar 
from February 21 through March 16, 
1975.
Leonard Schugars works have merited 
awards from the National Art Directors 
Society and from art direction and com
munication associations in New York, 
Philadelphi, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Detroit 
and Cleveland. His photographs have been 
featured in Communication Arts Magazine, 
Popular Photography Magazine and PhotoGraphs Annual. Recently Mr. Schugar 
studied drawing with Herbert Olds at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Photographs by Leonard Schugar may 
be viewed in the first floor Gallery 21 
Tuesday through Sunday from 10:00 until 
5:00. The Museum is closed Mondays.
DO YOU WANT YOUR GROUP 
PICTURE TAKEN WITH THE 
PITTSBURGH STEELERS??
The First Annual Spring Carnival Drive has begun!!! 
The contest ends April 1 Oil Get involved!!!!!
CHARITY: Multiple Sclerosis 
SPONSOR: General Campus Committee Student CSenate, Alpha Phi Omega 
TWO DIVISIONS: Groups of 35 Or Less ... 36 or more 
WINNER:
PRIZES:
GROUPS:
GOAL:
EQUIPMENT:
The group in each division which collects the most money. 
(i.e. - carwash, dance, soliciting, blood donations, selling hoagies, etc.) 
Free group tickets to the 1001 nightclub 
Trophy, publicity & the title 
Group picture with selected Pittsburgh Steelers 
Dorm floors, fraternities, clubs, departments, campus organizations, 
sororities and any group of people who wish to be recognized for the DRIVE. 
$5000 
All canisters, posters and M/S tags can be picked up at the Senate office.
All interested groups must register as soon as possible at the Skibo Information Desk. 
For any information regarding the drive, see Judy Peterson at the Student Senate Of
fice. 
All money must be handed in at the Senate Office by 4 p.m. April 10! !

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975
IN CONCERT
TICKETS NOW ON SALE
SKIBO INFO. DESK
fpizza productions presents:
ilrM
SmallFREE 
Medium$.50 
Large$1.00
Delivery Skibo Ballroom
ygraphi'.*
Date Sat., March 15
Pick Up At _ 8 & 10 pm
Proprietor: AB Concerts and Coffeehouse Committees

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAIM-March 11, 1975-Pag 21
Among other things,
i Jri Ti x L L ik ik o
$L Have
Used. Rare, Et Out-of Print BOOKS
 For Study or Pleasure For Owning or Giving 
(Free Search Service, Too')- 
2703 MURRAY A VENUE, SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521-0249
(Hours flexible - best call ahead)
Clinches First Place
by Dave Girdany
Pitt Tops 
Tartans
w wmm
Murray Leety poke checks Pitt's Rick Veron {5)
Photo by Mary Kay Groupe
sports
Matt Goldsmith(12) and Tom Grimm (20) defend CMU's end
Photo by Mary Kay Groupe
In a preview of the championship final, 
Pitt defeated CMU 4-3 on Saturday 
afternoon at the Civic Arena. Compared to 
the last Pitt game the refereeing was 
exceptional, but the referee could have 
called more penalties. Although CMU 
controlled much of the action (CMU 
outshot Pitt 35-21), a tl.ird period lapse in 
play cost the Tartans three goals in three 
and one half minutes. A big factor in Pitts 
favor was the play of goaltender Johnny 
DeFazio, particularly in the second period, 
when CMU outshot Pitt 16-3. Doug 
Johnston made several good saves in the 
( nets for CMU.
Dave Cornelius scored two goals, while 
Matt Goldsmith scored the other Tartan 
goal, as well as assisting on both of Daves 
goals.
In the first game of the doubleheader, 
Indiana, a much stronger team than earlier 
in the season,defeated Duquesne 4-2. The 
CMU-Indiana playoff game at 7:00 this 
Thursday promises to be a good game. But 
expect CMU to meet Pitt on Sunday 
afternoon at 3:00 for the championship of 
the WPIHA. A great game between two 
great teams is promised.
SCORING SUMMARY First Period: (1) 
Pitt-Stump 1:15 (2) CMU-Goldsmith 12 
(Miller) 4:16
Second Period: (3) CMU-Cornelius 10
(Stuever, Goldsmith) 5:23
Third Period: (4) Pitt-Troy (Vernon) 3:09
(5) Pitt-Troy (Crisanti) 5:00 (6)
Pitt-Saunders (Gideon) 6:39 (7)
CMU-Cornelius 11 (Stuever, Goldsmith)
9:54
Dave Cornelius (7) moves in on wing
Photo by Mary Kay Groupe
WPIHA STANDINGS
AS OF 3/9/75(indicates team clinched a playoff berth)
WLTPTS G FGA
Pitt*1 .002210720
CMU*820165621
Duquesne*750146350
Indiana (PA)640126745
St Vincent47085462
PS McKeesport19022079
St Francis0110021119
Wait Till Next Year"?
by Dave Kanner
You may have noticed that there were 
no articles about the last four basketball 
games of the season in last weeks Tartan, 
or if you are a typical CMU student you 
neither noticed nor cared. The reason for 
not having any articles is that we were all a 
little tired of writing eulogies for the 
Tartan losses. We were tired of writing 
about the teams defense, which was third 
best in the PAC, while neglecting their 
offense, which was dead last. As for the 
PAC standings, CMU finished tied for last 
with W&J and Thiel but the Tartans had 
the worst overall record of any conference 
team. Suffice it to say then that they lost 
their last four games and in only one, a 
63-62 loss to W&J, did the team come 
close to winning.
Believe it or not, though, this was 
CMUs most successful season since 
1970-71 when their final record was 6-13. 
The question then becomes: how do we 
measure success? A 4-16 record is nothing 
to crow about, expecially when not one of 
those victories was against a team with a 
500 record. The fact is that statistically 
the Tartans improved in every department 
over 1973-74. Lots of effort, guys, but no 
results. At the end of that 1973-74 season,
everyone said, Well, now that theyve had 
a year of experience theyll be tough next 
year. Next year has passed and they were 
anything but tough. Whats the excuse 
now? In this reporters opinion, 1973-74 
saw 10 guys come off successful high 
school careers only to start losing 
habitually. The next year then loomed as 
nothing more than another letdown. New 
players came out this year displaying a 
fresh exuberance which was not shared by 
the upperclassmen or the school. The result 
was apathy and a failure to put out 100%.
Is there a losing attitude at CMU? Yes, 
theres a losing attitude in that we dont 
have support from faculty members and 
students on our campus. says head coach 
Rudy Yaksich. They wont come out to 
ballgames and try to instill a little pride in 
our players. I think back to the Allegheny 
game (which CMU lost 56-54), and there 
was a small nucleus of fans right behind the 
bench who helped us play a better game.
In previous years there was a losing 
attitude among the players but not this 
year. Near the end of the season some of 
the kids were let down a little bit because 
we lost some close ballgames, but they gave 
us 100% all the time. I think that next year 
well be more competitive in our confer
ence.
Perhaps the Tartans major problem this 
past season was the inability to handle 
their opponents fast break. The first 
Hiram game was a shining example of this. 
In the first half both teams played CMUs 
slow, ball-control type of game and the 
score after 20 minutes of play was 18-17, 
Hiram. The second half saw the Terriers 
dominating the game with their fast break 
offense and they won the game by a score 
of 64-37. The same was true of John 
Carroll. The first time the Blue Streaks 
played the Tartans they narrowly escaped 
with an overtime victory. However, in the 
second contest JCU used a running attack 
to pace a 78-67 win in a game that wasnt 
even as close as the final score. Whats the
solution? According to Coach Yaksich, 
Weve got to recruit some quicker players. 
Were talking to more prospects now than 
we ever have before. That's just great, but 
I certainly hope that the team doesnt find 
themselves relying on freshmen again.
Freshman guard Pat Wards lack of 
offense, coupled with Chuck DAngelo's 
foot injury was another cause of Tartan 
woes in 1974-5. Its bad enouth that the 
team as a whole shot 38% from the field 
but Pat (who does have an excellent shot) 
only made matters worse by not shooting 
at all. He told me, At the beginning of the 
year, Rudy said that he didnt care if the 
guards didnt shoot a lot. I just got into the 
continued on page 22

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTAIM-March 11, 1975Hamerly Named 
To All-PAC Team
by Dave Kanner
Paul Hamerly, the Tartans 69 
sophomore center, has been given first 
team all-PAC honors. Hamerly led the 
CMU squad in every offensive department 
except free throw percentage, in addition 
to finishing third in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference in scoring and fifth in 
rebounds. Rounding out the first team 
were Bruce Gabriel and Tony Bolden of 
Hiram at the guards, Marty Orzechowski of 
Allegheny, and Dave Hosea from John 
Carroll at the forwards. The only other 
Tartan mentioned in the balloting was Qi^eg 
Chambers, CMLPs tough 63 forward, who 
received honorable mention.
The all-PAC seqond team finds Jerry ; 
Rossi of W&J and J. B. Ali of Bethany in 
the backcourt, Devin Chambers of Hiram 
and Blaine Taylor of Case Western up 
front, and Alleghenys Frank Barba in the 
middle.
Players other than Greg Chambers who 
received honorable mention were Rich 
Freeburg of Thiel, Chuck Lytle and Saul 
Cyvas from John Carroll, arid three 
Allegheny players, Bill Falloon, Bob 
Delgreco, and Dave Malone, thereby 
bestowing all-PAC honors on the entire 
Allegheny Gators starting five.
Bruce Gabriel, the leagues leading 
scorer, was voted the Most Valuable Player, 
while Allegheny coach Norm Sundstrom 
was the choice for Coach of the Year.
FINAL PAC STANDINGS 
W L
Allegheny131
Hiram122
John Carroll86
Bethany68
Case Western59
CMU410
W&J410
Thiel410
I.M. News
fcy'Mike Pochan
Rifle, swiriirning, foul shooting, and 
co-r^; Table Tennis finished their short 
seasons with: three fraternities taking the 
championships.
In rifle competition, SAE A captured 
the crown with John Kotyk (SAE) scoring 
a high of 275. The final match score was 
1225-1204.
In swimming, Kappa Sigma dominated 
the relays to take the title.
Foul shooting was dominated by PIKA 
(386/500) with Jay Harper shooting the 
best for the second year in a row.
Co-rec table tennis was won by Willy 
Frantz and Janis Dearfield.
Sports rosters due include Team 
Badminton on March 11 and Softball 
(major, minor and intermediate), Fencing, 
and Archery on March 18.
FINANCIAL AID 
AVAILABLEB
BEOG
For the 1975-76 academic year many Freshmen, Sophomore 
and Junior students will be eligible for Basic Grants (BEOG) 
from the Federal Government. Applications are now 
available at the Financial Aid Office and they should be sub-i 
mitted by June 30, 1975. Students eligible for Basic Grants 
must apply if they are applying for aid from the University.
NOTE: Applications for the 1974-75 academic year are also 
available at the Financial Aid Office. These forms must be 
received by the government before March 15, 1975. If you 
have not yet filed for this year, please do so immediately.
PHEAA
All students, whether they are current recipients of a State 
Grant this year or not, must apply to PHEAA if they are from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and are applying for aid 
from CMU. Those students who are not currently recipients 
should pick up PHEAA applications at the Financial Aid Of
fice 215 Warner Hall.
All Pennsylvania residents must apply even if they 
have been turned down in the past. PHEAA is constantly 
liberalizing criteria for State Grants and many more students 
should be eligible.
THE DEADLINE FOR PHEAA APPLICATIONS FOR THE 
1975-76 ACADEMIC YEAR IS MAY lf 1975
Wrestling Ends 
On A High Note
by G. B. Gordo
The wrestling season drew to a close this 
past weekend with the concluding awards 
ceremonies of the NCAA division III 
National Championship tournament. Four 
wrestlers qualified to go to nationals but 
due to injuries and the like, Dave Weeber, 
Steve Johnson, and Bruce Andrews were 
unable to attend, leaving only 118 lb Dan 
Boger able to make the trip to Cleveland 
for the tournament. Taken in proper 
perspective, although no CMU wrestler was 
able to place, it was still quite an accom
plishment just to qualify for the nationals. 
To the best of my knowledge, no CMU 
athlete in recent history, no fnrffttf? what 
the sport, has qualified to attend a national 
tournament. r
A week earlier,' the PAC tournament 
was held at Thiel College, with John 
Carroll dominating every weight class, as 
expected. However, it was not necessarily 
bad news for the Tartans, who finished in 
fifth place ahead of CWRU, Allegheny, and 
Bethany. As a team, the squad scored more 
than twice as many points than they had in 
all previous years combined. Individually 
Dan Boger wrestled impressively in 
capturing a third place medal at 118 
pounds. He defeated tough Tom Doyle 
from Allegheny in the consolation bracket, 
giving him an opportunity to wrestle his 
foe from Bethany for third and fourth 
place. Although he had some trouble at 
first, Boger defeated his man, earning 
himself a third place spot on the awards 
stand.
Steve Johnson, CMU ace 134 pounder, 
placed 4th, which is tribute enough to his
wrestling ability. But he also gave John 
Carrolls incredible All-American and 
potential national champ Mark Hawald-cale 
his toughest battle, losing 4-1 on a last 
minute takedown. Camegie-Mellons other 
place winner was 142 lb Dave Weeber, who 
garnished a fourth place finish. Dave, who 
wrestled despite an injured shoulder, was in 
probably the most difficult weight class, 
yet still managed to record some impressive 
victories.
To recap the seasons records and 
highlights, the team had a 2-5 Presidents 
Athletic Conference record while com
piling a 4-11 mark overall. Top individual 
"records were Dave Weeber who was 6-l~in 
the PAC and 10-4 overall, and iBruce 
Andrews who scrambled to a'7-0 PAC 
record arid 10-4 overall ledger. Andrews, a 
physics major, believes that his success is 
due to his application of various 
Newtonian mechanics principles, such as 
torque and momentum, when wrestling. 
Bruce, who in tournament action started 
the season out slow, then fizzled out 
altogether, commented that luck also had a 
helping hand in enabling him to post a 10-4 
record. Steve Johnson secured a 7-7 record 
by winning his last five matches and 
continued his fine performance by 
finishing strong in the PAC tournament.
As for next season, CMlFs hopes can 
only be described as wishy-washy due to 
the graduation of Ron Smoko and the 
probably demise of Coach Stevas, Bruce 
Andrews, Tom Loefflers, Steve Johnsons 
and Dave Weebers wrestling careers 
because of various financial, academic, and 
personal reasons.
Wait Till Next Year....
Continued from page 21
habit of bringing the ball down and setting
it up instead of shooting.
Bench strength and the absence thereof 
furthered the Tartan troubles. Rudy 
readily admitted that the CMU subs were 
inadequate when it came to providing 
scoring punch. The Tartan second stringers 
shot a feeble 23% jftorrv the floor while 
averaging 7 : per$opal fouls per game. As 
anyone wftp ,watphe4 a CMU g^me,. this 
year could see, Paul Hamerly tires quickly 
and the team suffers when he has to sit 
down. Rich Klein, one of Hamerlys 
replacements, seemed too slow and too 
easily intimidated underneath, and Dan 
Jason, the other replacement, is too small 
to go against other teams big men.
Of course, the season was not totally 
devoid of its bright spots. Paul Hamerly 
finished third in the PAC in scoring and
fifth in rebounding, and he was rewarded 
by being named first team all-PAC. Greg 
Chambers came into his own and played 
like a house on fire for most of the season 
tallying 9.6 points and 6.5 rebounds per 
game, as well as emerging as one of the 
squads top defensive players., Greg, was 
given honorable mention in the all-PAC 
balloting. I,f there was a freshman of the 
year award in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference, Dane Wukich would win it 
hands down. His 13.1 ppg ranked him 
ninth best in league statistics.
I realize that its easier for me to sit on 
the sidelines and write an article of praise 
and blame than it is for the Tartans to get 
out on the court and rectify their losing 
ways. Were all fed up with the same bad 
news and the same old excuses, but what 
can I say except* wait until next year?
WE NEVER HEARD OFTHE WORD RECESSION
Join-the Tartan business staff, help us meet our ad
vertising budget and gain useful experience in advertising 
and business. You can earn a commission on new ads that 
you sell. Work a couple of hours per week, if you like. For 
more information, call Lester Nathan, 682-4557 or Extension 
656 or stop at Room 52 Skibo, any weekday afternoon.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-March 11, 1975-Page 23
Steeler Larry, Brown Battles with All Star Bob Kozerophoto by . Fred Shamlian
Steelers Another
by Mike Pochan
The Pittsburgh Steelers basketball team 
played an easy-going game and came from 
behind to dump the CMU Intramural 
All-Stars, 48-45.
The All-Stars led 16-6 at the end of the 
first quarter, 24-19 at the half, 42-35 at the 
third quarter and it looked as if they could 
conceivably win the game.
But, with 1:16 left, the Steelers took the 
lead for the first time after a hard-fought 
comeback. Gerry Mullins was fouled while 
taking a shot by Paul Edwards, sunk the 
basket and a fr&e throw. The All-Stars tried 
to convert some quick points, but their 
momentum was>iited by tight end Larry 
Brown stealing the ball. The Steeler muscle 
triumphed by three points.
The Steeler team was all linemen 
featuring tight end Larry Brown, tight end
Commentary
WinBig One
John McMakin, and giants Jerry Mullens, 
Dave Reavis, and Gordon Gravelle. Mullins 
was the hot hand with 15 points.
Playing for the All-Stars were Mike 
Hopkins (Pride), Dave Cacciamani (BTP), 
Gerry Coates (Pride), Kenny Nash (S&P), 
Billy Omara (ATO), Steve Bilobran 
(Orangatangs), Melvin Flood (Players), 
Frank Massero (ATO), Mark James (Pride), 
Paul Edwards (S&P), Chuck McDonough 
(GSIA), Ralph Domenick (Orangatangs), 
Jay Duquette (ATO), Chuck Mrjenovich 
(Orangatangs), Bob Kozero (PIKA), and 
George Burman (S&P).
Kenny Nash hit for 10 points while 
playing only half of the game. Hopkins, 
Coates, Flood, James, and Kozero had th 
honor of starting the game as first string 
squad.
It's In The Stars
by John Spaulding
Friday night was intramural night and 
all were witness to that annual spectacle of 
a basketball game between the Tartan All-Stars and the Pittsburgh Steelers. This 
time only five Steelers showed up, all rem
nants of an offensive line that still needed 
recognition, ranging from light and lithe at 
64 and 229 pounds to a still mobile 
offensive tackle, weighing in at more than 
250 pounds.
The presence of only five made it obvi
ous to all the sports fans present that each 
individualSteeler must resolve to play as 
clean a game as possible to avoid fouling 
out and causing his team to take a loss. 
Later it became obvious that other avenues 
led out of this sticky dilemma and the 
Steeler players needed not worry at all.
The game started with an All-Star team 
almost designed to accentuate the contrasts 
with the Steelers. All the players were thin, 
light and relatively small as basketball play
ers go (many of the larger men were taking 
a rest form the previous ATO vs Salt and 
Pepper game) and they proceeded to shoot 
the strings off the basketball hoop, taking a 
quick 12-4 lead.
It was here that we saw the onset of a 
technique which has been called by various 
names in sports circles; here we use the 
name creative officating. The prac
titioners of its more subtle points recognize 
ne aim, to keep the game interesting.
Swim Season Ends
by Gregory Martin
The PAC championship meet marked 
the end of the season for the CMU 
swimming team. The Tartan Tankers 
finished 6th overall. The results of the 
meet were: Allegheny, Bethany, Hiram, 
W&J, CWRU, CMU, and Thiel.
CMU had several outstanding individual 
performances, led by Patti Dykes diving. 
Patti qualified for National Diving com
petition, and had the highest individual 
finish of any CMU swimmer. Other fine 
efforts came from the three relay teams. In 
the 400 and 800 yard freestyle relays, Jeff 
Bland, Dave Bankert, Frank-Wayne 
Dittman and Bill Gregg finished sixth and 
fourth respectively. The 400 yart medley 
relay of Gerry McNerney, Ned Uber, Bill 
Gregg and Frank Dittman came in sixth. 
Bill Gregg broke his own school record 
while finishing tenth in the 400 yard 
freestyle. He also finished tenth in the 200 
yard freestyle and the 200 yard
backstroke. Frank Dittman added points to 
CMUs total by finishing ninth in the 50 
yard freestyle and 12th in the 100 yard 
freestyle. Bobby Matysek finished 10th in 
the 200 yard breaststroke. John Rossi gave 
CMU its first point of the meet by coming 
in 12th in the 1650 yard freestyle.
Next years team captains will be Ned 
Uber and Amy Kilburg. Other swimmers 
returning are: Frank Dittman, Bobby 
Matysek, Dave Yorkitis, Bill Gregg, Jeff 
Bland, John Rossi, Dave Bankert and Neil 
Kushner.
This years team was improved over last 
years and had a dual meet record of 3-7, 
with a 3-3 record in the PAC. The team 
would like to thank Coach Crist for seeing 
us through the year, encouraging us to 
swim fast, and putting up with the rookies. 
Also we wish all our departing seniors good 
luck in their encounters with the real 
world.S&P Takes Crown
Translating from the highly technical world 
of sports jargon, that means to keep each 
team within a few points of the other 
despite large differenced in athletic ability, 
and if one is gQod, to keep the players 
from getting hurt.
The referees were in fact superlative, 
and no one even got angry. Time after time 
they mastered all their old reactions and 
ignored goal tending calls, offensive charges 
and moving picks by those defensive tack
les, always with a cheerful smile on their 
faces, and good adherence at least, to the 
proper form of a basketball game. All pres
ent agreed that they had not seen anything 
like it for a good long time.
-Indeed, through perseverance, the 
Tartan lead was at last overcome, and the 
Steelers led by 4 with about 25 seconds 
left to play. One of the referees finally 
broke down under the pressure and called a 
two shot foul on Gerry Mullins.
The pained expression on his face and 
the outstretched arms were there for all to 
see as he advanced on the referee, though 
his eyes probably reflected a different 
assesment of the situation. One can just 
imagine him pleading with the official: 
But its in the contract, ref! The margin 
was lowered to 2 and the Tartans, missed 
the last shot, cleverly avoiding overtime 
pay to the Steelers, and once again the 
mighty Steelers triumphed.
by Mike Pochan
'The biggest game of the IM basketball 
season proved to be the best as Salt and 
Pepper nailed ATO 50-43 in a dramatic 
contest to win the major league 
championship.
The score was within four throughout 
the first three afid a half quarters. Then, 
with 3 minutes left, Salt ahd Pepper 
opened up their big guns, shut down the 
boards, and coasted to a seven point 
victory.
Paul Edwards was high scorer for Salt 
and Pepper with 14, followed by Horton 
with 12, and Kenny Nash with 11. Pettie, 
Bauer, Rivers, and Adams also contributed. 
George Burman turned in fine board play. 
Coaching was handled by Martin White.
Jay Duquette had 14 for ATO, Rich 
Marusic notching 10. Billy Omara was 
surprisingly cold with only 3 points. Frank 
Massaro, Ernie Goffi, Tom Trainor, and 
Bob Pyzdrowski filled out the squad.
This is the second year in a row that this 
ATO team has finished second to a 
graduate student team.
Black Heat became intermediate league 
IM basketball champions, edging Katoosh 
34-30 in the final. Although Katooshs 
Alioto was high scorer with 15 points, 
Black Heat had Harris with ten and 
Andersen and Horsey with eight.
Black Heat dumped the Roadrunners
and Katoosh destroyed Coaches All-Stars 
to reach the finals.
The Turkey Butts skinned the Banana 
Griffs 35-33 to win the jag league crown. 
The Butts were led by Ted Schiffman with 
19 points.
Congratulations to Salt and Pepper, 
Black Heat, and Turkey Butts.
GRADUATING?
You're probably right in the midst of your 
job search and finding that competition is 
especially keen this year.
Have you considered a professionally 
prepared resume? It is an excellent in
vestment in your career strategy.
We compose your resume concisely and 
objectively - highlighting your achieve
ments more effectively than a "do it 
yourself" attempt.
You get mail order convenience, printeo 
(not Xeroxed) copies, a complete service 
at a very reasonable price, just $25. And 
your satisfaction is guaranteed.
For our free brochure at no .obligation, 
write:
Career Development Division
MARTIN O BOYLE 8. ASSOCIATES P O BOX 9094 PITTSBURGH PA 15224
STUDENT SENATE HEALTH FUND
Located in Peerhelp 
OFFERS INTEREST-FREE LOANS
 Up to $200.00 for abortions
 And other Medical Expenses.
Drop in or call Peerhelp 
Baker Hall 150A 621-9900

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-March 11, 1976
Stories From
"THE THOUSAND 
AND ONE NIGHTS"
Performed to 
the Melodies
OF Rimsky-Korsokov's
SCHEHERAZADE.
PICKWICK PUPPET THEATRE
RAPEPZUE
ARABIAN NIGHTS
Friday, March 147:30 9:30
Wherret Room 
CMU ID required 
Sponsored by AB Lectures
