JUNIOR PROM 
TEA DANCE 
I WEDNESDAY 4 TO 6
J
CHAPEL 
THURSDAY 
JANUARY 19 12:50 1
VOL. XXII No. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928
SKIBO FLOORMEN 
FALL BEFORE THE 
PTT PANTHERS
Hitchcock, High, Harpster, 
Crum, White Play a Losing 
But Very Spectacular Game
RIVALS MEET AGAIN 
ON PLAID FLOOR FEB' 8
Tartans Throw Scare Into the 
Blue and Gold, but Soon Fall 
Under Perfect Offense.
INTERVIEW BLANKS TO BE
FILLED OUT SOON, SENIORS!
Seniors, who are desirous of hav
ing interviews with representatives 
of corporations with possible employ
ment as a result, are requested by the 
Employment Bureau to fill out the 
blanks at as early a date as possible.
B. J. Kristof, of the Bureau, reports 
that the Seniors should fill out these 
blanks by Friday, at the latest. This 
is necessary, for when the time for 
personal interviews is at hand it will 
be impossible to secure .the; best posi
tions due to inadequate or delayed in
formation. The Seniors do not seem 
to realize the importance of having 
this information in this week but it 
will mean better positions and far less 
work on the part of those helping 
them secure the employement.
Bonbons are Waterloo of Some Co-Eds 
Reducing Becomes Popular Pastime
Womens Senior Bal 1
Five brave Scotch hunters are back 
within the high Drotecting walls of 
dear old Skibo, gingerly applying 
quarts of healing salve to the many 
deep scratches received in their en
counter, last Friday, witty the huge, 
ferocious, stealty, Pitt Panther.
It was a furious yellow spotted beast 
which confidently crouched in its well 
nigh inaccessible rocky lair, deep 
down witliin the heart of the Pitt 
stadium, waiting for the five brave 
representatives of the Carnegie Clan, 
whose object was to slay this vile 
beast, which always causes such a 
furor in the Plaids otherwise peace
ful life. In addition, the bekilted 
players were very cold; the strong 
' Schenley winds had chapped their ex
posed knees a painful red. That long 
sleek panthen pelt would be such 
wonderful protection and would make 
up wonderfully into kilties. However 
'it was well known that the Panthers 
severely resent any attempt to re
move the said pelt from its broad 
competent shoulders, and it was the 
general accepted opinion that it 
wouldn't be removed.
'Although little hope was held for 
the Tartans, a huge crowd of specta
tors had packed into the amphithea
ter to witness this yearly encounter. 
The hunters, clad in their abreviated 
armor rushed into the fray, right at 
the five shinning claws of the Panther. 
Women covered their eyes, faint 
hearted men shivered' 'but weie sur
prised to see the claws fall harmless 
and the Scots drive in under the 
Panther guard. Many fatal shots 
were i fired; High was a brave fighter 
despite his small stature; many times 
he was caught in the Panthers em
brace but would drive home a diffi
cult shot and quickly dive back to 
safety. Crum and Harpster also 
bravely forged into forbidden terri
tory, shooting steadily as they ad
vanced, and were a perpetual worry 
to the blue and gold. Hitchcock and 
White played wonderful games and 
protected the Plaid goal to the best 
of their ability against the cunning 
rushing attacks of the Panther, but 
many times found it impossible to 
hold up their end.
At first it seemed that the, warriors 
would get their coveted skin; a black 
cloud had settled ori Doc Carlsons 
brow as he watched his pet flinch, 
but it gradually cleared up and de
veloped into a | broad grin as the fight
ing Scotch were driven farther and 
farther back. The claws of the 
Panther, especially the two long 
front ones, Wrobleski and Reed,-were 
racking deep holes in the Skibos de
fense. Captain White played a spec
tacular game but was forced to re
tire, and his place was taken by Letzelter. The weakened Tartans fought 
bravely until the fin^l whistle but 
were awlays pushed hard' to defend 
(Continued on Page Six.)
Be Given In The 
William Penn Mar. 9
Bonbons are the Waterloo of the 
modern maiden. These sweet sym
bols of courtship have proven them
selves more of a fiasco than a bless
ing in the trysting place because they 
contain calories, Or weight teasers, in 
their luscious centers.
An overweight condition thus 
causes the modern girl more fretful 
concern than does a shiny nose. Re
ducing lias become one of the popular 
pastimes of this age. Every girl , is 
now trying it; arid all because femi
nine upholstery no longer serves to 
hide a woman's charms.
Chubby girls  have, nevertheless, 
had heir popularity. Queen Victoria 
never considered a diet of lettuce, 
and neither has the present songbird, 
Tetrazzini, ever passed up a cream 
puff. Even the old painter, Titian 
had a passion for pugy pulchritude.
Tipping the scales has become as 
popular as the new Ford. Scales,
large and small, can be found practi
cally every place from the boudoir to 
the bargain basement. They are the 
sentinals of rotundity. And some 
scales even tell fortunes to lure the 
less alluring.
One concern offers a chewing gum 
which is supposed to contain the po
tentialities for making the figure more 
sylph-like. This gum, however, has 
proved no other effect than to wear 
down the molars of the individual who 
optimistically chewed it. Pink pills, 
turkish baths, embossed rolling pins, 
phonograph exercises, and Holy Rol
ler meetings are supposed to dissolve 
the avoirdupois. Even a certain brand 
of bath salts has been used for slen
derizing purposes without any result 
except to encourage individuals to 
bathe, more frequently.
Health is necessarily, impaired by 
imprudent methods of reducing. This 
was demonstrated when Peaches 
Browning had her legs whittled.
Function is Given Annually 
by Women of M M. C. C. 
and Arts School
SOPHS SCHEDULE DANCECHEER LEADERS AWARDED
"WHITEY KAUFMANN
First Ticket Sale 
For Womens Prom 
Continues ThisWeek
WILL HOLD ANNUAL 
JUNIOR PROM TEA 
DANCE TOMORROW
Members of Committee to 
Have Final Pro m Tickets 
Ready For Sale This Week
TWO TICKETS TO BE 
GIVEN AT TEA DANCE
Sophomores and Plebes May At
tend Prom if They Win 
Tickets.
FOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3 SWEATERS BY COUNCIL
The ballroom of the William Penn 
Hotel will be the scene of the Wo
mens Senior Ball to be given on 
March 9 by the wornen of Margaret 
Morrison and Arts, Hannah Eastman, 
social chairman of the senior class, 
announced. This ballroom was select
ed by the committee on locations, 
Mary McGuire and Virginia Rose, after 
several other places had been investi
gated and considered by them.
The programs, strikingly original in 
design, already been ordered. Adele 
Hahn, Household Economics, who is 
in charge of securing favors, promises 
that these programs will always be 
delightful reminders ot what is fore
seen to be a highly successful dance.
The Womens . Senior Ball is an 
annual, dance, one of the few formal 
dances among Carnegies traditions 
The present senior girls are working 
hard to keep t.he ball up to-its former 
high standards. Capable committees 
are in eh a rge oV''tli'e plans for' (.lie 
dance and the fact that they have al
ready done much work in preparation 
for the ball insures that it will be a 
delightful affair.
A peppy and popular orchestra is 
promised since those under considera
tion are Wliitey Kaufmanns Band, 
Dan Gregorys and Dave Harmon's 
Orchestras. . Evelyn Off ut and Betty 
Hayes, seniors in the P. and D. de
partment, will announce tlieir selec
tion as soon as they have had replies 
to inquiries they have sent out.
Druids To Hold Party At Union 
On Former Date of 
Arts Ball.
Senior Girls To Select 
Distinctive Type Of Dress
Margaret Morrison and Arts Sen
iors have begun their annual search 
for the. distinctly distinctive in Senior 
dress. In a short time they will ap
pear on the campus in some sort of 
unusual and striking article of femi
nine apparel by which/ they will be 
known as having attained the envia
ble position of Senior at Carnegie. 
Frances Hays, Arts,^ Department of
 Painting and Decoration, Lucille S'ervick, M. M. C. C., Costume Economics 
Department and Kitty Trout, M. M. C.
C., Social Work Department have 
been chosen this year to serve on the 
Distinctive Dress Committee and 
have been busy acquiring ideas and 
suggestions. Artistic value, suitabil
ity and usefulness will guide them in 
their final choice. They are search
ing for an accessory entirely different 
from those adopted by former Senior 
classes, such as the enameled Thistle 
pins or gray jackets, plaid-trimmed, 
of other years. Square or triangular 
scarfs are being hinted at as the pro
bable choice.
The committee feels that its plans 
are rapidly noaring completion and 
will be ready vefy soon to announce 
a definite selection.
Col. Edward T. Miller To 
Give Lecture Today 3:30
Col. Edward T. Miller, executive 
secretary of the United Typothetae of 
America, Chicago,~will give the third 
of a series of fifteen lectures on print
ing and related subjects at the Car 
negie Institute of Technology next 
Tuesday, January 17. His - subject 
will be Organization and Management.
The present series has been ar
ranged in co-operation with the United 
Typothetae of America vVhich is in
viting leading experts in various 
branches of the printing industry to 
give the lectures. Col. Millers lec
ture is open to the general public. It 
is scheduled for 3:30 p. m. in Room 
104 of the College of Industries.
Keen disappointment was registered 
by Arts students last week, when it 
was announced through the Tartan 
that no ball was to be given this year. 
However, for those, who have already 
made arrangements for that evening, 
and for those wishing to make a pleas
ant arrangement, the chance to at
tend another campus function of 
somewhat similar nature, has been 
obtained. 
The Carnegie Union has been en
gaged for the evening of February 3, 
formerly the Arts' Ball date, by the 
Sophomores, who seek to duplicate 
their Soph Hop of this year, on more 
well-known grounds.
It is hoped that the dance will meet 
vlrltli as much success aS the Arts Ball 
of former years and the commll.ee, 
who in reality are the Sophomore 
Honorary Society, Druids, is endeavor
ing to( accomplish this end. A clever 
combination of music, programs, re
freshments and novelty numbers, has 
been suggested and is under consid
eration.
Time allowing, the affair will be a 
novel one, digressing from the stiff 
impression surrendered by tjie word, 
"Dance enough to make an evening 
of real enjoyment possible and likely.
Sale of Philadelphia Company j 
Bonds, Hazing Permits Topics 
Discussed At Meeting-.
Financial Committee Ap
pointed to Collect Money 
in Three Payments
THETA TAU PLANS ACTIVE 
PROGRAM FOR NEW YEAR
IMPORTANT REHEARSAL OF
MENS GLEE CLUB SUNDAY
The Mens Glee Club will hold its 
regular rehearsal on Sunday, Janu
ary 22nd. Although this is in the 
midst of examinations it is very 
necessary since there can hardly be 
a rehearsal the following Sunday be
cause of mid-term vacation. There 
will also be a rehearsal Wednesday, 
January 18th.
The Glee Club is giving a concert in 
Edgewood high school, February 2nd. 
In order to compile a program it is 
very important that all members re
port for these rehearsals.
The intercollegiate Contest is 
scheduled for February 24th, and all 
available rehearsals must be taken 
advantage of in order to surpass our 
showing last year. Every member Is 
urged to be present, because your at
tendance means your selection for con
certs, including the Intercollegiate.
Mr. Gaul and Manager Scott are 
arranging for an elimination process 
which will insure Carnegie of its best 
male singers for thebig contest.
Mr. H. J. Sleman of the Mining de
partment, has an article entitled 
Rock Loading at Two Pennsylvania 
Mines" appearing in the December 
issue of "The Mining Congress Jour
nal" v i
Theta Tau, professional honorary 
engineer society, will elect officers 
and reorganize at their - meeting for 
the next year, that.is, till the second 
semester of next year. ,
The chapter has been ' considering 
for some time to make their call early 
next semester. Those who are for
tunate* enough to be the chosen few 
will indeed be justified in considering 
themselves highly honored, for the 
qualifications necessary for eligibility 
in the society are maae very high. 
Consequently there are just a very 
small number of men invited to join 
each year and to carry on the work 
and program authorized by the chap
ter.
Carnegie Nu, of Theta Tau' was 
founded here January 1, 1922, and has 
done work worthy of the praise of 
any national professional society.
The delegate of this chapter, Paul 
W. Davis,- reported at the meeting 
held last Thursday night, the actions 
and business accomplished at the 
National Convention of the fraternity 
held in Chicago during the ; Christmas 
holidays. At the meeting commitees 
were appointed to carry out the chap
ter routine for the next two semesters. 
Great things are being planned and 
the chapter looks forward to one of 
its most successful years.
A number of miscellaneous points 
were taken up at the Student Council 
meeting last Tuesday evening. It was 
decided to award sweaters to Head 
Cheer Leader, Mark Seibert and Henry 
Bell, manager. Mark Seibert is presi
dent of Arts School Senate and AMoe 
President of the Student Council. lie 
is also a member of numerous com
mittees on the campus. lie is busi-j 
ness manager of Tri-Publications. He | 
holds the capacity of presidency of 
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity and is a 
member of the Dragons, Senior hono
rary. Henry Boll is manager of tho 
cheer leaders and a Junior in the 
Civil Engineering Dopartmont. He Is j 
a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fra
ternity and 'also of the Theta Tau 
honorary. This award was given 
through the recommendation of Mr., 
Moore, Social Chairman.
Another point brought up and ap
proved is tho budget for the Sopho
more Dance. This dancfj 1V to be hold 
on February 3 on tho date left, vacant, 
by the Arts Bal demise.' Mr. Crandall 
suggested that the bonds of Philadel
phia Company hold by tho Council 
should be sold. A motion was made 
and passed In regard to tho soiling of 
these bonds. Tills will give tho cqun,cil a profit due to tho present market 
value. A letter was sent to the Coun
cil by tho president of tho Arts 
Sophomore class asking permission to 
administer hair cuts to three unruly 
plohes. This wi\s road and permission 
granted that this punishment be In
flicted on tho three plebos concerned.
Mr. Tarboll made a request that a 
student bo sent: to sit on tho Faculty 
Discipline Committee in order to rep
resent the student body. Mr. Brown 
was appointed by tho council to sit 
at these meetings as representative.
Alvin Brown is .a member of tho 
Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and also 
a member of  the Dragon Honorary 
fraternity. He s president of the In
dustries Senate and a member of the 
Alpha Tau, Industries honorary fra
ternity. He was chairman of last 
years Junor Prom committee. He is 
very active around the campus and is 
a member of numerous campus com
mittees.
The first ticket sale for the Wo
mens Prom to bo held February 24 
is continuing this week. Although 
overyone, is busy preparing for. exams 
and there is little extra time or 
thought for things in the dim future 
following February first Juniors are 
urged if possible to pay their first 
Prom assessment immediately there
by giving the committoo a financial 
basis on which to $ork.
It was announced at the Junior class 
meeting last Thursday that tickets for 
the Junior affair will total thlrtoon 
dollars payable In installments of five, 
five and three dollar payments. The 
first ticket sales which are compul
sory for Junior girls whether they at
tend the Prom or not Is to bo com
pleted by tho ond of the month.
Girls in the various departments 
who are collecting payments n,ro: 
Sylvia Lovle, Housohold Ec.; Cathorno Stevenson, Costume Ec.; Ruth 
Snyder, Combination; Irene LaLondo, 
Library; Helen Booth, English Minor; 
and Miriam Kopsofsky, Secretarial. 
Chocks are to bo made payable to tho 
Student Council;
CLASS OFFICERS IN ARTS 
SCHOOL A R E RE-ELECTED
DR. COGGESHALL LECTURES
AT CARNEGIE ON JANUARY 21
The American Association of Uni
versity Women lias invited the faculty 
and students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology to be tlieir guests on Sat
urday evening, January the twentyfirst. Dr. Arthur Sterry Coggeshall, 
curaloi* of education, of Carnegie Mu
seum, will be the speaker. He will 
talk on Turning Back the Clock Ten 
Million Years. The lecture, which 
is illustrated with motion pictures, 
will be given at 8:15 p. m. in the 
Lecture Hall of the Museum.
Elections In the Arts School to fill 
the vacancies left by the recent depo
sition of three class officers, woro hold 
tills week. The first vote was held on 
Tuesday, resulting In the election of 
Mjss Irene Todrow to tho vice presi
dency of the Junior Class, and the 
elimination of .several candidates for 
the presidency of tho junior and soph
omore classes.
A second vote was held on Thurs
day at which Kenneth Owous wns 
elected president of the Sophomoro 
class. The president of the Junior class 
was not elected as there was still a tie 
between two candidates neither of 
whom had a majority of votes. A 
final vote will be taken today to de
cide between Ralph Hitchcock and 
Thomas Lewis.
The annual Junior Prom Tea Daijce 
will be held In the Union this JUNIORP 
day afternoon from 4 until 6 oclock. 
Two green tickets , will be raffled off 
at the dance. These tickets are 
worth $5 in exchange for a final red 
ticket.
It has been customary in -previous 
years to give Freshman or Sophomores 
an opportunity to gcv to the foremoBi 
Junior function of the years by 
raffling off two tickets at the Tea 
Dance which is open to all students. 
This is a wonderful opportunity for 
Plebes or Sophs to attend the major 
social function of the year, the Mens 
Junior Prom.
The "Collogo Club Orchestra will 
provide the music for the Tea Dancp. 
The price is tho same as usual, 25 
cents per gentleman while ladies, are 
admitted free. This Tea Dance wilJ 
bo tho last one this semester and stu
dents will bo ahlo to forget tho ap
proaching exams for two short hours. 
The danco will probably make the 
students realize the short time that 
remains until tho crowning event ? 
tho social season.
Tho final ticket s^ilo will start sooni. 
The final or total price will be $?>. 
The final red l.lclcots may be obtained 
from any member of the Prom com
mit too for $4 plus tho groen second 
ticket or $7 plus an orange, first 
ticket or tho red ticket may bo pur
chased outright, for $!).
Willtoy"- Kau'firianfl orchestra haa 
been, engaged to play at the Pitts
burgh Country Club one week from 
Friday night. Kaufmans orchestra Is 
vory popular In colloglato circles. 
They recently playod at tho ITonu Mil
itary Bali, Penn 'State Hop, and vari
ous other college dances.
A tentative order for favors has 
boon sent. In by tho com ml (.too and 
only those students who purchase 
tickets In advance will bo sure of fav
ors so buy your tickets now and don't 
run the risk; of missing the favors 
which aro a credjt to tho persever
ance of tho,committoe which selected 
them.
Questionnaire Regarding;; 
Point System Distributed
New Literary Magazine 
Is Rapidly
At Carnegie 
Becoming a Reality
The second meeting of those inter
ested In the project of a new literary 
magazine at Carnegie was held in 
room 106 in the College of Fine Arts 
last Tuesday afternoon at 4:30. A dis
appointingly small number were pres
ent, probably due to the short notice 
on wliich the meeting was cabled. How
ever all who were there were very en
thusiastic and a groat deal was accom
plished. Miss Clark took charge of 
the meeting. The report of the inves
tigation committtee was given by Mr. 
Rogers. Various estimates regarding 
the cost of publication were presented, 
ranging from $90 to $200 por Issue. 
The probable size of this magazine 
will be nine by (,welve Inches.
Yesterday afternoon a meeting of 
the committee was held to draw up 
the formal plans for the new maga
zine, which will be submitted at the 
next general meeting to bo held to
morrow afternoon at 4:30 In room 10(5 
of the College of Fine Arts. These 
plans will Include a definite financial 
program, according to which the new 
magazine will be launched. The organ
ization of the staff will also be In
cluded and probably nominations will
be made. Representatives from any 
any of the colleges, having journalistic 
ability will be eligible for staff posi
tions. Seniors, Juniors and Sopho
mores are especially urged to come to 
this meeting since important decisions 
will be made.'
The committee wishes to impress 
upon the student body that the new 
magazine is to be an all-Carnegie lit
erary publication in the full sense of 
the word. Its policy will embrace
the interests of all four colleges, and
the staff is to be chosen with this
fact in mind. Also, an advisory board
will probably be appointed, consist
ing of representatives from each of 
the four colleges. It will be tile duty 
of each representative to ascertain 
and present to the staff the desires 
of the students of tlieir own particu
lar colleges with regard to tho maga
zine. Sections for fiction and poetry, 
technical arid scientific articles, thea
ter news and dramatic criticism and 
various other subjects, chosen accord
ing to popular demand, will consti
tute the main body of the publication,
The committee is also anxious to 
learn more definitely about the gen(Countlnued on Page Four.)
Every girl on the' campus received ! 
a questionnaire yesterday relating to" 
the subject of college activities. Theseiquestionnaires are part of an exten
sive Investigation into the advisabili
ty of establishing a point system for 
girls activities at Carnegie. Mortar 
Board, womens national senior hon
orary is carrying on the work and 
hopes to have all the information 
necessary within a few weeks. Ques
tionnaires have already been sent to 
colleges all over the country and mos 
of them have very kindly responded 
with the desired information.
It is highly essential, of course, that 
every girl fill out and return her 
questionnaire, because it may meaa 
the introduction of a point system 
which will affffect a large number of 
the coeds. It will mean a fairer dis
tribution of activities and a more 
equal opportunity for everyone. Miss 
Leah Milkman, chairman of the Ac
tivities Point System, must have the 
questionnaire inforrriation very soon, 
so every girl is asked to. contribute 
her share by filling In and returning 
the blanks.
There is a box in the main hall of 
Margaret Morrison and one in Arts, 
for the collection^of the questionnaires 
and it takes loss than five minutes to 
answer the questions.
MEN'S GLEE CLUB TO SING AT
LAST CHAPEL OF SEMESTER
/
In the last chapel exercises of the 
semester; Thursday, the Mens Glee 
Club will present a very fine musical 
program* Dr. John Ray Ewers, of tho 
East End Christian Church, will l>o 
the principal speaker. Dr. Baker will 
preside, as usual.
Next, semester chapel is to be held 
on Tuesday ' Instead of Thursday 
every second week, alternating' with 
a general and a departmental assem
bly. The first chapel will occur on 
February 14 next semester.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO
Training Employees 
In The Ohio Public 
Service Company
This Company Aids the Edu
cational Work of Its __ 
Employees
Recently we mentioned In an arti
cle appearing in the Tartan the fact 
that alumni should not conHider their 
education complete when they receive 
their diploma and degree. We shall 
, endeavor in the next few issues to 
show our alumni Home ways in which 
thlH program may be carried on for 
Continuing education after school.
In some cases the companies them-1 ijyle P. Sheppard, a graduate in 
selves encourage education, and the | Commercial Engineering in 1927, was 
following excerpts from the speech of j ,e winner of $250 prize offered by
least one of our alumni is up in 
the air quite a bit. He is W. B. Goembel, who ha just completed contracts 
with the Massiion Aircraaft Corpora
tion to build a new type of monoplane. 
Goembel was connected for the last 
two years with the Advanced Aircraft 
Company of Troy, Ohio, and is noted 
for several changes in airplane de
signing during the last few years.
Donald Marye, whom many of our 
more recent graduates will remember, 
has made a success as director of the 
Anniston Little Theater in Anniston, 
Alabama. His opening presentation 
was Belinda in the latter part of 
November, which met with wide
spread approval.
If. A. Fountain; treasurer of the Ohio 
Public Service Company, show how 
this company takes care of the educa
tion of the employes. The speech wan 
delivered at the meeting of the Indus
trial Trainig Section of the Pittsburgh 
' Personnel Association on January 12, 
1928. The subject was Training 
: Men and Women for Public Service 
. Companies. Director Jewett is chair
man of these meetings, and Jack 
Beatty is secretary of the association:
 "We may say that prospective ex
ecutives in the 0. P. S. organization 
fall in two divisions: First, so-called 
Junior Engineers," graduates of the 
Doherty Training School run in con
nection with the Public Serv/lce Com
pany of Colorado who have been as
signed to us. Second, the rank and 
file of our employes.
With respect to the first division, 
our training is formal possibly only 
in a sense that junior,engineers upon 
arrival with us are started in what 
may be likened to a post graduate 
training course. They rotate in assign
ments of approximately six months 
each in each of our four major depart
ments, that is, Production, Transmis
sion and Distribution, New Business 
(sales and office budgets, account
ings, etc.)
With respect to the second division 
more or less formal classes have 
. been organized, but these probably 
' are to be regarded more for the pur 
1 pose of employe rather than executive 
training.
The won^en employes are organ 
i I zed to study activity our business In 
all its phases, but particularly the 
phase dealing with our relations with
 residential customers. These meet: lugs have developed or at least shown
us the capabilities of many of our 
women employes and the heads of our 
Home Service Departments have been 
recruited from the rank and file as 
rosult of this activity.
: All of our employes are oncourngod
to take educational courses. Upon sat. 
isfactory completion of any course by 
an employe, the company will pay one 
half of (ho cost of the course (tuition, 
text books, etc., In the case of night 
schools l.o ho Included In the cost).
Each of our staff executives each 
month holds,a mooting of the dlvi 
slonal oxocutlvos In his function 
Those meetings devoted to the discus 
slon oil current pr&bloms, particularly 
since they make It. possible for spe
cific assignments to be made to the 
respective mombors In attendance 
prove oftoctivo training media and are 
tdeveloping, we feel, a number of ox 
ports In the various phases of our 
business and In the problems common 
to all of our operating divisions alike. 
To Illustrate, our General Distribution 
Engineer has assigned the following 
special subjects, one each to our nine 
distribution superintendents and one 
to a junior executive on the staff of 
the General Distribution Engineer:
.  Street lighting.
Oil circuit breakers. ?
, . Meters.
Organization, new methods and 
.elimination of waste.
. /Testing of materials. 
i _ ^Transformers.
Distribution design and practice. 
-Transmlsson.
'Joint pole argreements and inductive co-ordination.
Rural line constructon.
' MOur executives and employes are 
encouraged to attend conventions, 
committee meetings and like gather
ings at company expense. In this re
spect, Mr. Doherty has .said, It has 
- been my policy with young lnen that
 1 felt a special interest in, to interest 
them in association work, because I 
could depend more thoroughly in se
curing an improvement in those men 
by putting them in association work, 
than by doing a little talking to them 
and tolling thorn to study so and so.
'if I put them whore they were re
quired to make a report on a certain 
subject thoy would bocomo authorities 
upon that, subject.
Personnel turnover Is not a sorlous 
problem with us, except possibly In 
the New Buslnoss Department, and 
such data as respects turnover in this 
department; as are available probably 
would be Irrelovent or at least; would 
reflect factors other than training too 
much to permit them to be useful in 
this connection.
the Pittsburgh Press for the best es
say on Life Insurance. Sheppards 
essay was entitled The Value of life 
Insurance.
Sheppard, while at Carnegie, was 
engaged in many activities. 1-Ie was 
a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity, 
a member of Theta Tau and Delta 
Skull, honorary fraternity, was Fresh
man football manager, and president 
of his class in his Junior year. Shep
pards home is in Parkersburg, W. Va.
The judges of the contest were: 
Chancellor John G. Bowman of Pitt, 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, and Dr. William 
M. Davidson, superintendent of Pitts
burgh school.
Financial Statement of the 
Alumni Federation
FROM JULY 1, 1926, TO JULY 1, 1927 
RECEIPTS
Federation Dues .......................................^....................................$ 4,778.89Advertising carried in Carnegie Alumnus................................... 1,085.95
JewelrySouvenirs (Degree Rings and Recognition Jewelry)Campus Week
Alumni Events
1,604.952,331.90
139.50............................................................ io.Interest on Daily Bank Balance...............................i................. 149.28
Miscellaneous ................................................................................... 723.87
Industries Alumni Associationfor Endowment Fund......... 500.00
Life Membership and Loyalty Bonds...............................'............**2,812.00
Balance forwarded from June 19, 1926.......................................^7 370.08
Alumnus And Alumnae Issue 
Of Puppet To Appear Soon
Total Income. $21,496.42
EXPENDITURES Association, Dues (75c of each individual dues payment and 
50c o/ each joint membership dues payment is paid by 
the Federation to the separate college alumni associa
tions) ............................................................................................$ 1,269.65Alumnus (includes printing and mailing costs)....................... 3,200.40Printing and^ Publicity.................................................................... 406.89General Expense .....................................................................
JewelrySouvenirs .................................................................
Campus Week ................................................................................. 1,949.00
Alumni Events ................................................................................. 359.55
Miscellaneous..................................................................... . v ... 576.93------* - ' " * . 500.00
2,270.76
1,512.98
Industries Alumni Associationfor Endowment Fund
$12,046.16
Balance ...............................v............................................................$ 9,450.26Investments:
Anaconda Copper Mining Company Bonds...........$3,235.99
McKeesport Sheet & Tin Plate Co. Bonds.......... 3,170.50
------------- 6,406.49
Balance, June 30, 1927...................................................................$ 3,043-77
Amount paid in on Loyalty Bond subscriptions and due the
Endowment Fund .................................................................... 1,377.00
CLAN NEWS
NORTH NEW JERSEY
On December 29 there was held, at 
the Elks Club, 1052 Broad street, 
Newark, the first annual dinner dance 
and card party. A very enjoyable 
time was had by the 23 couples present.
It is planned to have a card party 
epme time in February and it is hoped 
that all those loyal Carnegie gradu
ates will avail themselves of this op-1 
portunity to meet all their old friends. 
Kindly be on the lookout for an an-1 
nouncement concerning this party, 
as it is planned to have more of them 
in the future.
Margaret Morrison 
Alumnae Tea Opens 
New Years Season
Annual Tea at Little House 
in Honor of Senior 
Class
CANTON
Net Balance ............ ^...............................................................$ 1,666.77
The first issue" of the Alumnus Tor 
the new year will make Its appearance 
in February. This issue is :iiow being 
prepared and will soon go. to the prlntNATIONS GATHER
.TO LIMIT ARMS
Representatives of 23 nations as
sembled in the famous Glass Room of 
ers. If you have not paid your dues j the Palace of Nations this morning,
Northampton, Mass.For the third 
time the.glee clubs of Smith College 
and Dartmouth College have united in 
a oncert given here. The clubs gave 
a number of selections singly, and 
then combined for a final number.
for the year, start off the new year 
right by sending in a cliqck to the 
alumni oliice. This will insure your 
copy of the Alumnus bi-monthly, and 
the Tartan weekly.
The Alumnae issue of the Puppet 
will also soon appear. Get your copy 
of this issue, as it promises to be an 
interesting one for'alumni. It will be 
mailed to you if you send your 25 
cents to the circulation manager, Car
negie Puppet.
Columbus, O.(By Ohio State Lan
tern and Intercollegiate Press.)Eight 
years ago an American Y. M. C. A. 
man, returning from the war-torn 
fields of sunny France, brought with 
him a young French boy, one of the 
remnants of the greatconflict that de
stroyed cities and families.
That lad has now grown to full man
hood, has become instilled with Amer
ican fervor and nationality, and has 
set his face to an American business 
career.
But the call of his native land is 
not stilled by his yoars of absence. 
The French tri-color beckons hlmf re
calling memories and hopes which 
never are forgotten.
So. Roland LoClorcq, a sophomore In 
the college of coinmerco at Ohio State 
University, will lay aside his studios 
at; the end of thld quarter and em
bark for his native land.
There ho will Join the French army 
to serve 18 months under a French 
law requiring all French citizens, 
whether they bo In Lille or in the re
motest parts of the globe, to serve a 
period in the army. .
LeClercq was just a lad of ton when 
lie invading German hordes hurled 
hemselves into Northern France. The 
boy found himself stranded in the turbulant gusts of war, with'Lille, his 
native city, completely laid waste.
From then on he lived--in Arras 
among some French: trodps,"learning 
the' self-reliance of manhood, and in
cidentally familiarizing  himself with 
the English language.
The passingyears brought -the lad 
to Paris, where he set out^to' support 
himself. The armistice found him in 
that city. Then one day lie' appeared 
at the headquarters of the American 
Library Association there. His alert
ness and knowledge of English imme
diately attracted the attention of 
Americans in the Y. M. C. A. service.
Two of these men who became 
strongly attached to tiie youth, made 
arrangements for his coming to the 
United States, where he lived for a 
bile in Iowa. Two and a half years 
later he came to Columbus where; he 
orked his way through high school, 
and in 1926 entered Ohio State Univer
ity.
at the opening of the fourth, session 
of the Preparatory Disarmament Com
mission. It was a ceritable world con
ference for the advent of Soviet Rus
sia and the inclusion of America, all 
the important nations are now taking 
part in the-disarmament debate at 
Geneva. Many well-known figures 
were noticed in the crowded lobby 
but Lord Cusliendun (Ronald Mc
Neill), the new British delegate to the 
League of Nations, and JVIaxim Litvinoff, Russia, attracted the mofet atten
tion. The Russians took their seats 
on the right of the table In the Glass 
Room, almost opposite Lord Cushendun who was to listen to Mr. Litvlnoffs proposal for a general, immediate 
and complete disarmament.
The Commission lost no time in get
ting to work, and after a few remarks 
from Dr. G. G. Loudon (the president 
of the Commission) stressing the ne
cessity of n^eeting the demand for se
curity by an extensionVof the sphere 
of arbitration, Count von Bernstorff, 
Germany, rose to explain that he had 
never intended to convey by liis letter 
asking for a general discussion that 
Germany wanted a second reading of 
the new draft convention taken Imme
diately.
Russia's Plan Outlined.
Litvonoff then rose and after a few 
preliminary remarks plunged straight 
into the explanation of his scheme of 
general disarmament: He condemned 
the so-called capitalist states for their 
evasion of the obligation they had un
dertaken' to reduce their armaments, 
after declaring that the last war was 
to end war. All the work done by the 
Preparatory Disarmament Commis
sion, said Mr. Litvinoff, was of a pure
ly decorative character, and the niethods of the League merely evoked end
less fruitless arguments which meant 
the indefinite postponement of disarm
ament. But the Soviet Government, 
added Mr. Litvinoff, never relaxed its 
efforts, and lie was now authorized 
to propose the complete abolition of 
all land, marine and air forces. Ig
noring 'the surprised looks around 
him, Mr. Litvinoff went on to explain 
the details of the Soviet scheme, 
which was characteristically thorough, 
for all armies, navies, air forces and 
military supplies were to be complete
ly swept away. Not a gun, not a war
ship, nqt a military airplane, was to 
be left.
No Military Training.
This implied the abolition of con
scription and military training of any 
kind and the total prohbitiori of the 
use of the existing trained reserves. 
By the Russian scheme all fortresses, 
military!plants and factories1,Would be i 
destroyed and the general staffs and J 
all forms of military administration j 
would disappear. Propaganda, the !
Pres. American Alumni Coun
cil To Tour South And West
The American Alumni Council, of 
which we are a member, is this x?ar 
promoting a program of Regional Con
ferences. Meetings have been held in 
several distrcts with very. good re
sults., The proposed trip of President 
Wilfred B. Shaw, of the American 
Alumni Council, through the south 
and west will enable him to meet with 
all the remaining districts but one.
We believe it would be profitable 
for as many of our alumni who can to 
attend these, meetings. Details of the 
meetings may be obtained from the 
District Directors listed below with 
the itinerary:
New Orleans, January 28District 
IV Conference at Montelone Hotel. G. 
Fred Lamprecht, Director, Tulane 
University, New Orleans.
Los Angeles, February 6-7.
Berkeley, February 11Distrct IX 
Conference at the University of Cali
fornia. Robert Sibley, Director, Uni
versity of California.
Berkeley, February 11.District IX 
Conference at the Multnomah Hotel. 
Portland. Edward C. Allworth, Direc
tor, Oregon State College, Corvallis, 
Oregon.1 
Seattle, February 15.
1 Butte, February 17.
Billings, February 18.v 
Denver, February 21District VII 
Conference at Y. W. C. A. Building 
Denver. Jane Biitcliart, Director, Uni
versity of Dencver.
Omaha or Lincoln, February 23 
District^ VI Conference. Henry W. 
Matlack, Director, Grinnell College, 
Grinnell, Iowa.
We would /advise alumni living in I 
these district^ to attend these confer
ences or meetings if possible. Many 
problems of the alumni are discussed, 
and the intercollegiate movement is 
fostered. We will publish the exact 
places for these later, if possible.
The Canton Carnegie Clan held the 
first of the series of bridge parties at 
the open Door Womens Club on Sat
urday evening, January 7. Mr. V. W. 
Whitmer and Mrs. Frank J. Taylor 
were the winners of prizes for high 
scores.
Among the alumni attending were: 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Pike, Wilbur 
Carl, H. W. Selden, V. W. Whitmer, 
J. P. Paca, G. A. Martin, F. J. Taylor, 
Nathan Brodell, Elizabeth Schelp, M. 
W. Hatton, O. C. Heffner, and J. L. 
Carroll.
It is expected that a still larger 
number will 'attend at our next party 
to be held at the same place on Sat
urday evening, February 4. We ex
tend a cordial invitation to Carnegie 
alumni who are in the city of Canton 
or vicinity to visit us at that time.
Regular meetings of the Canton 
Clan are held in the Canton Y. M. C. 
A. Cafeteria at 6 p. m. on the third 
Saturday of each month.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
The opening of the 1928 social sea
son for the Margaret Morrison Alum
nae association took place on Satur
day with a very successful tea given 
in honor of the Senior class of Mar
garet Morrison. The tea was held in 
the Little House.
Miss Josephine Whitney, president 
of the association,- acted as hostess, 
assisted by Miss Elizabeth Burkhouse, 
president of the senior class, and by 
the members of the alumnae execu
tive committee. This committee in
cluded Miss Miriam Bond, Mrs. Eliza 
Dickey Blair, Mrs. Bernice Kruger 
Thorpe, Miss Helen Eyster, Miss 
Frances Keiser, Mrs. Gail 'Sellers 
Fettke, Mrs. Mary Craighead Brinton, 
Miss Adah Borgerding, Mrs. Bess 
Sharpley Gurley and Miss Mary Hulsman.
Assisting at the tea were Miss 
Marjory Abbott of the household 
economics departmentt, Miss Edith 
Winchester of the secretarial depaTt 
ment,  Miss Fannie Woodside, Mrs. 
Gail Sellers Fettke, Mrs. Jane, Cald
well Harrold and Mrs. Margaret Har
rison Napier, alumnae of the school.
The association is already, planning 
for several events in the near future, 
and the committees are at work to 
make this one of the most successful 
years in the life of the association.
value of wliich tne Russians knew so 
well, is to be absolutely forbidden for 
military purposes.
In order to carry out these meas
ures, .Mr. Litvinoff proposed that an 
international convention for the pur
pose should immediately be drafted 
out in detail. If total abolition could 
not be carried out at one time, Mr. 
Litvinoff said that the Soviets were 
prepared to put it progressively into 
force during the next four years. Mr. 
Litvinoff concluded with an appeal to 
the commission to accept the Russian 
proposal as tlie only practical way of 
obtaining disarmament sepurely. The 
speech made a sensation, for it was 
not realized how much in earnest Rus
sia was in its resolve to propose a gen
eral scheme for disarmament.
Dusty Rhodes Free Throw 
or Fame for a Day
OVL. didnt expect him to make a point. But 
he made a free throw. And that free throw was 
the cause of their winning the game. The crowd 
went wild and more girls wanted to put their arms ' 
around Dustys neck than he could accommodate. 
Fame!
And after the game Dusty had a few team
mates around to his rooms. He served them 
Canada Dry. It made a big hiteven bigger 
ythan winning the basketball game. More fame!
This ginger ale has a delightful flavor . . . 
tang to it . . . dryness . . . sparkle. It has a ' 
subtle gingery flavor because it is made from pure 
Jamaica ginger. It contains no capsicum (red 
pepper), and nota bene it blends well with other 
beverages.
<S(SS>9
lice. IT S. Pat. Off.
The Qhampagne of inger zAles
Extract imported jront Canada and bottled in the U. S. A. by 
Canada Diy Ginger Ale, Incorporated, 25 Weft 43rd Street, New York, N. Y. 
In Canada, J. J. McLaughlin Limited. Established 1890.
Dont let em Jool you, 
fella I Look or the noino 
"Canada Dry" on the 
bottle cap. Then youll 
be sure/
He Had Him There.
J OSAE GOOD T-UMGABoTJ 
I Mfe IS l-tAT X CA.Nl ' 
Al-W/WS KEEP AAV ,MEAO -----------
Hy KRANK KKU.I.Y
!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
are chcinejinej to Cheffierjield!
FOR THE BEST 
OF GOOD REASONS 
BETTER TASTE !
Hit
STUDENT
SUPPLIES
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all 
makes of typewriters.
Portable and Standard 
Machines.
See our Big Supply and 
get special student 
rates.
Standard Typewriter
Company
12.9 FIFTH AVENUE 
ATLANTIC 0342
Pi Delta Epsilon Will | Registration Tonight For 
Hold Contest In 1928 Pubiic UtiIities Course
More Competition Between College
Graduates Forecasted For Future
To Award Many Cash Prizes 
For Best Editorials of 
College Papers
Pi Delta Epsilon, tlie national hon
orary collegiate journalistic fraternity, 
offers for competition during tlie aca
demic year 1927-192S a series of prizes 
tor editorials published in college 
journals throughout the United 
States.
Prizes will be onered to two groups: 
Group AAll college journals and 
staffs. Group BMembers of Pi Delta 
Epsilon on the staffs of college jour
nals in institutions where Pi Delta 
Epsilon has an active chapter.
Five prizes will be offered to each 
group. The first prize is fifty dollars; 
second, thirty-five dollars; third, twenty-five; fourth, fifteen, and fifth, ten 
dollars.
The editorials must be published in 
the college paper excluding magazines 
and the awards will be made in con
sideration of the thought and idea, 
force, timeliness, style, and other 
qualities which the judges choose-to 
consider.
Two copies of the editorial must be' 
submitted in the form of a clipping 
and pasted on plain white paper. A 
statement signed by the editor must 
accompany the editorials in order to 
identify the authors and the journal 
in which they were published.
The judges are: Ira E. Bennett, ed
itor "The Washington Post; Claude 
G. Bowers, editor The World/' New 
York City; Louis Ludlow, ex-president 
National Press Club; Oliver P. New
man, United States Daily, 'and Fred
erick William Wile.
To be eligible for prizes, editorials 
must be submitted to the Grand Vice 
President of Pi Delta Epsilon, Henry 
Grattan Doyle, dean of men, George 
Washington University, Washington, 
D. C., not later than July 1, 1928.
A COLLEGE BOOKSHELF
(By Intercollegiate Press.)
Probably the most interesting book 
of the season is Count Luckner, the 
Sea Devil/' by Lowell Thomas (Dou
bleday, Page Company, $2.50), es
pecially for those who enjoy true 
stories that are more gripping than 
fiction.
And especially is it interesting, be
cause the tale recounted is that of an 
enemy of ours, the captain of the 
Seadler, the German vessel which 
eluded theBritish blockade during 
the World War, and raided Allied and 
American shipping onjtlie high seas.
dont recall ever hearing the ex: 
act truth concerning this mysterious 
ship until this book came to our at
tention.
We shall not occupy the time or 
space to tell of the youth of Count 
Lucknerthough that is exciting
enough. But we shall attempt to let 
you in on what happened to the Sead
ler.
Luckner liad been chosen by the 
Germans to man a ship which would 
run the British blockade and destroy 
shipping on the high seas. A captur
ed American vessel was used for the 
purpose.. The log of a Norwegian 
ship was stolen from the Copenhagen 
docks, and the ship was disguised as a 
vessel of that nationality. Those sail
ors who were most familiar with Nor
wegian manners, and could speak the 
language were placed on the upper 
deck, the others being concealed be
low. A cabin boy was dressed ak the 
wife of a skipper, since it was a cus
tom of Norwegian captains to liavfe 
their wives along with them whenever 
possible. Then the ship awaited its 
opportunity.
This opportunity came on Christ
mas Day, 1916. The raider plowed 
through the North Sea in a gale which 
had scattered the British guard ships. 
Only once was the ship boarded by the 
British, and one glance at the log and 
the skipperse wife convinced them 
the vessel was neutral. The supposed 
Norwegian was signalled to be on its 
way.
Its first capture was off the Azores. 
Approaching a British ship, the Sead
ler asked for chronometer time, and 
then as it was near enough for battle, 
down came the Norwegian colors, and 
up went the Imperial naval'standard. 
Not a gun was fired.
,Down through the South Atlantic 
plowed the windjammer, picking up 
a ship here and another there, trans
ferring the crews to the Seadler and 
sinking the enemy. The captives were 
treated as guests. They were banJ queted with fobd of their native lands 
in turns, and they apparently enjoyed 
the affair.
But it was the good nature of the 
captain that brought about his trou
ble. The ship became overcrowded, 
/ and port had to be made to let off the 
passengers. This accomplished, at 
Buenos Aires, the identity of the 
Seadler became known, and it was a 
hunted craft from then on. It was a 
tidal wave, however, and not an enemy 
destroyer that brought an end to the 
cruise of the Seadler, and how it hap
pened, how Luckner continued in his 
exploits, we shall let you read for 
^yourself.
Delaware, OhioContrary to for
mer precedent, two men headed the 
list of pledges to Phi Beta Kappa. For 
years the highest honors at Ohio Wes
leyan have been taken by women.
A new course in public utilities, de
signed primarily for graduate engi
neers who are engaged in public util
ity work in the Pittsburgh district, 
will open at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology during the coming week. 
Registration is scheduled for Tuesday 
night, January 17, from 6:30 to 7:30.
The course will be given by Dr. 
Bartow Grilfiss, professor and head of 
the department of industrial eco
nomics, and is scheduled for Tuesday 
and Thursday evenings each week 
during the second term of the even
ing division.
Although the course is planned pri
marily for college graduates, it is open 
to all applicants who have had at 
least one year of college work in gen
eral economics. The volume of pre
liminary inquiries, Carnegie officials 
report, indicates that the course will 
have a registration sufficient to or
ganize two sections. It is being of
fered in response to numerous inqui
ries from various sources.
Christmas Vacation Meant 
Work For Carnegie Men
What do college men do over the 
Christmas vacation? When such a 
question is asked one' immediately 
thinks of dances, parties, shows and 
a certain object with four posts and 
a couple of cross-bars commonly re
ferred to as a bed. But college men 
arent really as lazy as they are 
thought to be.
A proof of this statement is a re
cent report of the Employment Bu
reau, which shows that nearly 200 
Carnegie men did various kinds of 
work over the holidays. The majority 
of these worked in the post office, the 
railway mail and the Pennsylvania 
Baggage Company. Others were en
gaged in sales work, while still others 
worked as waiters. A few were en
gaged in engineering work.
The amount of money made by 
these men is surprising. The figures 
show that $8,627 was made during the 
month of December. This amount is 
the highest that has ever been report
ed by the Employment Bureaufor a 
single month. Of this total $2,936.25 
was made ii^waitini? on table, $557.65 
in sales work and $753.86 in the post 
office. 
The figures of the Employment Bu
reau'refer only to those men who live 
in Pittsburgh, or who stayed in the 
city over the holidays to work. There 
were, perhaps, 200 or more who work
ed in their home towns as waiters, 
chauffeurs, salesmen, check room at
tendants and in.the,post office. Be
tween them their earnings probably 
totaled $3,500. This makes a grand 
total of over $11,000 which was earned 
by CJarnegie  men during the Christ
mas vacation.
The answer to the question of 
What do the college'nlen do over the 
holidays?' seems to bethey make 
money.
If there are auy men who have not 
yet reported their 'Christmas earnings 
to the Employment Bureau, Miss Mer
rill would appreciate it if they would 
do so.
Examination Tea Will Be 
Given By Y.W. Next Week
The Y. W. C. A. wil hold Examina
tion Teas on January 20, 23 and 25, 
from 3 to 5 p. m., in the Fafulty room 
on the first floor of Margaret Morri
son. Miriam Cupps, chairman of the 
Y social committee/will act as, hostess 
at the inaugural tea, Friday, 21. On 
Wednesday, Charlotte Wardale will be 
hostess. These teas , have' been an 
annual affair at Carnegie and have al
ways been sponsored by the Y. All 
the women students, regardless of 
school or membership, are invited to 
attend the tea and forget the worries 
of exams.
The Y activities of the season 
have been most successful and prom
ising. After a most beneficial meet
ing of the cabinet and guests last 
Wednesday evening, at which Dr. 
Forsythe was the speaker, it was de
cided that another such meeting 
should be held. Although the speaker 
and date are as yet indefinite, it is 
promised to be in February. Every 
member of the Y should now make 
her plans to go as a most pleasurable 
evening is assured to all.
Evanston, 111.  (IP.)Expressing 
the idea that a student gets more 
knowledge out of.va so-called "bullsession than many formal lectures or 
class room recitations, James W. Arm
strong, dean of men at Northwestern 
University, is an advocate of inform
alism in education.
Dean Armstrongvoiced his opinion 
at a recent fraternity luncheon. When 
questioned further lie explained that 
when a group of students get together 
for a talk-fest, they reveal'their hopes, 
their likes, their scepticisms, con
tribute their own ideas, and listen to 
others in a discussion. Then, he said, 
a student really gathers material that 
lias been dormant in his mind and 
marshalls it up into opinions and atti
tudes of his own.
He went on to explain that a bullsession is not a smut-session. Only 
when a man takes part in a session 
with the wrong attitude of mind, ac
cording to the dean, does he fail to 
get material value from the talk-fest.
If conditions continue as they are 
now, there is going to be keen compe
tition between college graduates in 
their attempts to secure positions in 
the engineering and business world, 
according to statements made by Dr. 
Rittnmn, head of the Department of 
Commercial Engineering at the Car
negie Institute of Technology.
The causes for this competition is 
due both to the large increase in the 
number of graduates and to business 
conditions as a whole. Year after 
year, more and more students are go
ing to college. Large colleges have 
found it necessary to restrict their 
enrollment, and small colleges are 
springing up all over the country. 
Towns that no one ever heard of be
fore are building colleges: The sesult, 
of course, is a large increase in the 
number of college graduates. The in
crease has been so large in fact, that 
the college degree has little signifi
cance any more. It used to be that 
the men that had degrees were few 
in number and weregenerally iii'great 
demand, but now if a man does not 
have a degree, he is greatly handicap
ped when he tries to secure a posi
tion.
Present business conditions also 
point to keener competition between 
graduates. It is the general opinion 
that business conditions are below 
normal, an attitude due probably to 
the unsettled conditions, but bank 
clearings and car loadings seem to 
indicate that business is just as good 
as ever. It is true that there is from 
six to eight per cent unemployment, 
but this condition exists even in the 
best of times.
Carnegie Girls Glee Club 
Entertains At Hospital
The Girls Glee Club gave its first 
program of the season on Sunday aft
ernoon at the Elizabeth Steele Ma
gee Hospital in Oakland. The pro
gram, which was given for the enter
tainment of the hospital patients was 
entirely informal, and lasted one hour.
Last year the Glee Club girls who 
were residents of Pittsburgh sang in 
the wards of the Magee Hospital dur
ing the Christmas holiday season. 
The return invitation this year proves 
the success of the first program, v 1
The girls are also planning to give 
a concert at the Veterans' Hospital 
in Aspinwall some evening in Febriiary. Plans for other concerts to be 
given this year are under way, but 
are as yet incomplete.
New Haven, Conn.Yales tw^enfjy 
million dollar endowment drive came 
to a successful conclusion 10 days be
fore the scheduled end of the cam
paign, when it was announced tliat 
$20,210,578 had been subscribed.
The trouble today is that the pro
ductive capacity of a number of con
cerns is too great. The leather, su
gar and steel industries only have to 
operate on about three-fourths capac
ity to supply the wants of the nation. 
The problem of today is not one of 
production, but one of distribution 
and sales. The question today is not 
whether they can sell the goods after 
they are produced. As it is ten ten per 
cent surplus (or deficiency) which de
termines the prices of goods, many 
companies have launched intense ad
vertising campaigns in order to sell 
their'stock, so that they might main
tain mass production and still keep 
prices up.
Tlie tendency in the next few years 
is going to be one of competition with 
a danger of more unemployment If 
conditions keep oil as they are at the 
present, as large manufacturing con
cerns are trying to produce more with 
less labor. If competition becomes 
much keener, there will be a lowering 
of wages, as business men-can not af
ford to pay a high price for labor if 
competition brings the price down or 
if overhead expenses increase due to 
the large advertising campaigns.
In recent years the relationship be
tween the employer and the employe 
have changed. It used to be that the 
employe decided which job he was go
ing to take. Now the employer 
chooses the men that he want to 
work for him. He might even hire 
four or five college graduates with the 
ultimate intention of keeping only the 
best two.
Dean Breed To Represent 
Carnegie At Conference
Miss Breed, director , of Margaret 
Morrison College, will attend' the bi
ennial conference of the North Atlan
tic section of the American Associa
tion of University Women, which will 
be held in Boston, February 9 to 12, 
inclusive.
The convention will be opened 
Thursday evening with a reception 
by the Womens Council of Boston 
University. An extensive program in
cluding a tea to be given by the 
Wellesley Club and a dinner at the 
University Club with an address by 
President Neilson of Smith College. 
On Saturday Miss Breed will speak in 
behalf of Margaret Morrison College, 
Mt the inter-collegiate luncheon. The 
closing session will take the form of 
an international dinner at which Pres
ident Wooley and Doan Gildersleove 
will be amonc the sneakers.
with the
Philadelphia, Pa.The University a 
Pennsylvania on Saturday, December 
17, presented the degrees of Doctor o 
Science to three n\en, John Hays Ham
mond of Washington, past president of 
the American Institute of Mining En
gineers; Charles M. Schwab of New 
York, president of the Iron and Steel 
Institute, and Howard Elliott of New 
York, chairman of the board of the 
Northern Pacific Railway.
Introduction by a friend is usually 
the safest way to make new acquaint
ances. For about fifteen years this 
paper has introduced its students to a 
dependable "Service Station for. Invi
tations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen 
Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if 
you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
,VT---------------------------------------------------
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing !
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 1 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons by appointmentMayflower 7891 \
James Pop" Mace Speaks 
Tonight At Y Banquet
Members of the Circle "Y, an or
ganization composed of Hi-Y alumni 
enrolled at Carnegie, will be extended 
the opportunity of hearing one of 
Pittsburghs Y. M. C. A. luminaries, 
Pop Mace, at their dinner tonight, 
January 17.
Mace is the boys work secretary of 
the Allegheny county, and as the 
writer well knows, a speaker of ex
ceptionally 'entertaining-' qualities. His 
dally radio ti\lks from the downtown 
Y are as fine a source of religious 
education as can be found in the city 
of Pittsburgh.
About 100 members are expected in 
the Cafeteria tonight at 6:00. Tickets 
may be obtained at the "Y" office at 
60c per plate.
This is a wonderful opportunity for 
Circle Y members to hear a real 
straight-forward' message from an 
earnest Y worker.
Atlanta, Ga.-7<-Ter.r bombs were 
needed to disperse a mob of Georgia 
Tech students, who gathered down
town after their team had at Inst 
stopped the crimson tide from Ala
bama.
Oberlin, OhioOvercoming the tra
ditional feminine aversion to rats and 
mice, two graduates of womens col
leges have adopted rat killing as a 
profession. Ye-ali!
tlie Regal representative to 
show you tlie $6.60 Regal 
Reproduction of Londons 
Leading Shoe Style selling 
on Regent Street at 75 shil
lings ($18.25).
An English Oxford made 
from Genuine Martins Im
ported Scotch Grain, Full 
Leather Lined, $6.60.
$^60
REGALSHOES
Campus Representative 
The Mens Store ofJageman & Spickert
6121 PENN AVENUE East Liberty \

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928
FRANK BROTHERS
ifiifta Averna iBtiol Shop Pctwecn *17ik and 48'Ji Slrccti,Ncw\ir!i
Pittsburgh Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
Bearly 
Camels Hair 
Coat 
$165
Bearly 
Camels Hair 
Coat 
SI 65
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu i 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.STORE SERVICE 
Cakes  PastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candies ideally made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.Store hours: 8 A.M. to'11:30 P.M.
Stretch ins? Your Income
Only through careful, system
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom
ers and are e^er ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial problems.
Your savings and checking ac
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
VlVGCcmcntlCo:
CATERERS
Charter House Clothes. 
Fashion Park Clothes..
Reductions in All Other Departments.
Jageman and Spickert
6121 .PENN AVENUE ,*38# EAST LIBE
NEW SPECIAL COURSES TO 
BEGIN SECOND SEMESTER
Many special courses, both night 
and day, will begin in the different 
colleges soon after the semester ex
ams. For night courses there will he 
sections formed for the different 
shops. In tlie College of Industries 
the following shops will accept new 
students: Foundry, Pattern Making, 
Machine, Sheet Metal, Plumbing, 
Welding, Printing, Wood Working, 
Storage Batteries, Mechanical Draft
ing, Architectural Drafting, Structural 
Drafting, Bricklaying and Masonry, 
Heating and Ventilating, Forging and 
Heat Treatment of Steel, Electric 
Equipment and Construction. In the 
College of Fine Arts a special studio 
course in sculpturing will accept new 
students.
In the Margaret Morrison College 
there are four new classes in Home 
Economics for day students. The 
courses are in Menu Planning and 
Meal Service - for home, Weaving, 
Dressmaking, and in Applied Designs. 
Those. wishing to enroll for these 
classes may come to the officeof the 
Margaret Morrison College on Thurs
day, January 26, between the hours of 
11 and 2 for interviews and further 
information.
SEVEN GIRLS INITIATED INTO 
ALPHA CHI ALPHA HONORARY
Last Thursday, January 12, Alpha 
Chi Alpha, womens honorary journal
istic fraternity, conducted its mid
year initiation. Seven girls were ad
mitted to the fraternity: Gladys Con
nor, Helen Booth, Dorothy Roy and 
Ruth Bramson, all of the class of 29, 
and Kathryn ODonnell, Catherine 
Boyd and Helen Whitehill, of the class 
of '30. After the initiatory rites were 
over, the active members entertained 
the new ones at dinner.
Paris-You have to jband it to the 
telephone company over here. They 
are transfering all the deaf telephone 
operators from the switchboards to 
the trouble department.
M.M. Seniors Are Guests At 
Annual Alumnae Tea Saturday
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
have given further proof of their at
tachment to the Alma Mater by giving 
a New Year's tea in honor of the se-, 
niors, Saturday, January 14, in the 
"Little House. This New Years tea 
has become a tradition on the campus 
arid the seniors are thus honored an
nually. A joyful reunion of the vari
ous has-been freshmen classes and 
their respective dominating sopho
mores is thus effected, and Saturday 
proved no excepeion to the rule. 
Those present at the tea certainly did 
find Saturday a pleasant afternoon.
The Stringers, one of our entertain
ing musical clubs on the campus, was 
on the program.
Miss Josephine Whitney, president 
of the Alumnae Association, acted 
as hostess, assisted by Miss Elizabeth 
Burkhouse', president oL' the senior 
class, and by the members of the 
alumnae' excutive committee. This 
committee includes Miss Miriam 
Bond, Mrs. Eliza Dickey Blair, Mrs. 
Bernice Kruger Thorpe, Miss Helen 
Eyster, Miss Frances Reiser, Mrs. 
Gail Sellers Fettlce, Mrs. Mary Craig
head .Brinton, Miss Adah Borgerdin, 
Mrs. Bess Sharpley Gurley and Miss
Yellow Springs, OhioThe women 
students at Antioch College are voting 
on whether they shall smoke at all, 
whether they shall smoke in private 
or in public. A straw vote held be
fore the regular vote indicated that 12 
of the 57 girls questioned were 
against smoking in public. The others 
were all for it.
Mary Hulsman.
Assisting at the tea were Miss Mar
guerite Abbott l of the household eco
nomics department, ( Miss Fannie 
Woodside, Mrs. Gail Sellers Fettlce, 
Mrs. Jane Caldwell Harrold and Mrs. 
Margaret Harrison Napier, alumnae.
Thirteen air transport companies 
are carrying the mail in all directions 
between New York and San Francisco 
and the air mail map of the United 
States postoffice department takes on 
all the appearances of a Wailway chart. 
Passengers are Accommodated on air 
mail routes between Boston and New 
York, New York and Chicago, Chicago 
and Dallas, Chicago and San Fran
cisco, Cheyenne and Pueblo, Salt Lake 
City and.. Los Angeles, and Los An
geles and Seattle. Several hundred 
thousand tons of mail are now being 
carried annually through the air with 
few failures. In the course of a year 
the fatalities in carrying the mail have 
been reduced so that they are about 
in proportion to accidents in the rail
way messenger service.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
New Literary Magazine
Students: .Please fill out this blank and deposit it in one of the 
Ballot Boxes in the main halls of the Four Colleges.
1. Are you interested in having a new literary magazine at
Carnegie? ......................................................................................................
2. Would you care to take an active part in the publication
of this i^agazine?...............................'.................................................
3. Should the magazine include special departments of interest to
students in eajeh college? Technical, Dramatic, etc........................
4. What would be a popular price?.................,/................................
5. Would you be interested in contributing?.......................................
Suggestions .........................................................................................
7. What name would you suggest for the new magazine?
(A prize will be given for the name accepted.)
Name .................................................................................................
Class...................................................... College.......................
NEW LITERARY MAGAZINE
AT CARNEGIE IS RAPIDLY
BECOMING A REALITY
(Continued From Page One.) 
era! opinion of the student body con
cerning this new publication. On 
page four there is a short, question
naire which everybody , is earnestly 
requested to 1111 out and deposit in the 
ballot boxes which will be placed in 
the main halls of the four colleges.
These blanks should be filled out 
immediately in order that, when the 
ballot.^boxes are taken,up at noon to 
morrow the results of the question
naires may be determined and a report made at the meeting in the after
noon, regarding the general opinion 
o the student body. At.the. bottom of 
the blank is a space left for a sugtioned name for the new magazine. A 
regular competition will be opened In 
next weeks Tartan for a name. An 
advanced opportunity, however, is 
offered in this issue for students who 
are especially anxious to compete for 
t&e prize being offered for the name 
fiually accepted for the new magazine. 
Please come to the meeting.
New Brunswick, N. J.A special 
travel trip to European countries will 
&e held this summer in connection 
with the Ninth Olympiad at Amster
dam, July 29. The S. S. President 
Roosevelt has been, chartered by the 
American Olympic committee to 
transport the American athletes who 
will represent this country. There 
will be a number of extra aecommodaWorcester, Mass.- -PresidenI. Vervllle, of the Worcester Polytech Dra
matic Society, The Mosque, plans to 
produce "The Bad Man, a satirical 
comedy by Porter E. Browne, a play 
which has just been released for ama
teur production. The cast Is com
posed of men, of course^ and already 
lasfl-room recitations' are conducted 
la the male Interpretation of shrill inConation, for practico
Butler University, Indianapolis -, 
OXINoy have II. easy here! Will Rogers, 
orw boy humorist and philosopher,] 
who will upealc here January 29,' will 
b< in Indianapolis In time to dispell 
inUI Kloom from the minds of thoso But* | 
ter students worried' over the finals.
Student Convention 
Of A.I.E.E. A Success
Problems Discussed by Stu
dents Interesting to Nota
bles in Electricity
The first intercollegiate A. I. E. E. 
convention ever to be held ! in the 
Pittsburgh district was held on Tues
day, January 10, and was a pronounced 
success. F. J. Chesterman, vice presi
dent and general manager of the Bell 
Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, 
attended the student convention, and 
made the statement at the evening 
meeting of engineers that the after
noon program would have been worthy 
of a meeting of the parent organiza
tion. The tonics of the students 
speeches1 varied widelyfrom "The 
Value of English to the Engineer 
and "The Engineer as a Citizens to 
such technical subjects as "Circuit 
Breaker Problems. Then1 topics im
mediately concerning the A. I. E. E. 
organization wei*e developed and dis
cussed, but the interest in the early 
speeches had been so great that the 
speakers were allowed to exceed their 
time, resulting in the omission of four 
prepared discussions of the last top
ics. President Gherardi, vice presi
dent of the American Telephone and 
Telegraph Company, gave an Interest
ing talk to the students, making this 
one of the rare occasions when a 
group of students has had the privi
lege of listenig to a president of A. 1 
E. E.
Time was limited that no bushiest 
was transacted and no definite ar
rangements were made for ,a similar 
mooting in the future, but this con
vention was such a success that an
other will sur(\ly bo convoned at some 
future date.
Cambridge, ,Mss.According to a 
Harvard Crimson compilation, Har
vard has a slight odg</ over Yale in 
"championships won during tlio past 
20 years. Harvard has taken -17, 
while Yale claims *13. Hero are the 
figures:
Crow Harvard, 10; Yale, 9. Baseball - I larvard, 9; Yale, 10. Fobtball 
...Harvard, 9; Yale, 6; tied, 3. Track
Harvard, -I; Yale, 14. Hockey 
I-Iaryard, 15; Yale, 4.
New Brunswick, N. J.Edna St. 
Vincent Millay gave a reading of her 
poems at Rutgers as the first of a 
series of three lectures sponsored by 
the Philalothean Literary-Society. The 
other two lecturers will be Joseph 
Wood Krutcli, dramatic critic and aseditor of The Nation, and 
Rachel Crotliers, a well-known dramaWomens Organization 
Select Benefit Play
Julia Sanderson to Star in 
Benefit Play Okay at 
Alvin Theater
"O Kay* has been selected by the 
Women's Scholarship Organization, to 
bo given for the scholarship benefit, 
at the Alvin Theatre Monday, Febru
ary 27. The play.is a popular musical 
comedy starring Julia Sanderson and 
Frank Krummit. It has had a suc
cessful run both in Boston and New 
York.
This project, which is being under
taken by the Carnegie Co-eds, is a dif
ficult but most possible undertaking.
The following have been appointed 
chairmen of their committees: Jean
Roy, Publicity; Frances Hays, Pos
ters; Sally Hulllck, Speech Publicity; 
A dele Hahn, Patronesses; Betty Mar
shall, Ushers.
The idea of scholarship is itself 
worthy of such a project. Every year 
numerous scholarship benefits have 
been given by the different women's 
organizations on the campus, to pro
vide financial means for their respec
tive scholarships.
This year ,one benefit will now suf
fice for the innumerable bridges, bake 
sales, etc., which have become burden
some because of their frequency.
Most o the success is dependent 
upon the women students who are 
urged to give,their earnest and loyal 
support. Although the immediate 
progress of the project rests upon the 
women students, it is to be expected 
that the alumni will manifest a most 
earnest interest in the greatest prob
lem ever undertaken by the Carnegie 
women.
MARGARET MORRISON COLOR
DAY OBSERVED IN ASSEMBLY
Today is color day in Margaret Mor
rison and in  Margaret Morrison As
sembly this morning the colors of the 
outgoing Senior Class will he pinned 
on the members of the Freshman 
Class. The colors are red - and grey. 
The Freshmen will be robed in white 
and will be welcomed by the presi
dent of the Senior Class and the pres
ident of the Junior Classit being 
the sister class. Betty Burkhouse is 
the 'Senior Class president and Betty 
Marshall the Junior Class president: 
Tlie Junior Class president will pre
sent. Ilowers to the Freshman Class 
president, Carol Reese. Color day 
lias become a Margaret Morrison tra
dition ever since it was established 
three years ago. It is really symbolic 
of the carrying-on of the spirit and 
ideals of Margaret Morrison by the 
successive classes that enter the 
school.
Washington, Pa.President &. S. 
Baker, of Washington and Jefferson 
College, announced 'to the student 
body recently a new code of rules to 
govern the conduct of fraternity house 
parties. Among the restrictions are 
tliQ following:
Lists of girls invited  to fraternity 
parties ..during the college week-end 
functions must be submited to the 
president's office for inspection and 
have his approval before invitations 
are; issued.
All college men must be out of fra
ternity houses during college parties. 
At least two married couple as cha
perones must at all times be in the 
fraternity houses' during parties. All 
visiting girls must be away from the 
chapter houses by 3 p. m. on Sunday 
lollQwing the party.
Ann Arbor, Mich.Charlemagne is 
given the credit for having the first 
school survey in history by a pro
fessor lecturing on the school system 
of Virginia to an audience at the Uni
versity of Michigan. Charlemagne," 
he said, "made the first recorded tests 
of the ability of a teaching staff. To
day, such surveys are very popular, 
and are more or less expensive, de
pending largely on what, the survey 
expects to disclose. Virginia has a 
seven-year elementary course, no kin
dergartens, separate schools for Ne
groes, and tuition fees in high schools. 
The practice of charging the students 
a monthly fee for high school educa
tion has been the .main . reason for 
the surprising decrease in the re
spective enrollments of the seventh 
and eighth grades.'
Memphis, Tenn.Southeastern Col
lege has received $100,000 for a schol
arship fund as a memorial for Hugh 
M. Neely, deceased business man.
lavcjest selling 
quality pencil 
the wocld
-iamous
\/ENUS
MTEADNCR
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, per dot. $1.00 Rubber ends, per dor. 1.20
American Pencil Co., 215 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.
Makers of UNIQUEThin Lead 
Colored Pcncils ia. 12 colors$1.00 per dor.
POST OFFICE, CAIRO, EGYPT
[ ow during the tourist season, the 
mails outofCairo are tremendously 
heavy. And no wonder! Everyone who 
travels in Egypt, who conies into contact 
with the most ancient of civilizations, 
must say something about his impres
sions to someoneeven if he has hitherto 
been a lazy correspondent. He may send 
only a postal card showing the Great Pyr
amid with X showing the spot where I 
ate my luncheon. But he must write 
something!
And since the discovery of the tomb of 
Tutankhamen, tourists have multiplied, 
impressions have been voluminous, and 
the mails have increased enormously.Of 
course, you cant imagine it without being
here,butIsimplymusttellyouabout......
And so on.
Jt is very lucky for the correspondents 
that wi th her wonders of an tiquity, Egypt 
did not also inherit the ancient postal sys
tem. Only the Pharaohs and the great
officers of state could indulge in the luxury 
of correspondingwith a foreign country 
and a letter from the King of Egypt to 
the King of Babylon might take months 
in transit. Some of these royal letters 
have come down to us. They are very 
long, full of elaborate salutations and 
important newsas if their writers con
sidered their composition the event of a 
season.
All things considered, we may be grate
ful that themodern postal systemofEgypt 
is what it is efficient, orderly, up-todate. Of course, die Cairo Post Office is 
equipped with Otis Elevators.
So with the advance of civilization, 
Otis, the symbol of twentieth century 
convenience, has been put at the service 
of the Pharaohs of Egypt in spreading 
their fame far beyond any worlds which 
they could even have dreamed of! The 
pyramid builders would, we feel sure, ap
preciate the marvel.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
held the Saturday after the second 
semester opens.
tions, and effort is being made to sup
ply these to a limited number oC col
lege students. Several itineraries 
have been made out for travel during 
the nine days preceding the Olympic 
games. Further details may be se
cured frohm the Clara Lauglilln 
Travel Services, IS East Fifty-third 
street, New York City, the firm mak
ing reservations for the trip.
Hanover, N. Ii.The Dartmouth, 
undergraduate daily at Dartmouth 
Colleges here, is trying an experiment. 
Instead of waiting until late in the 
spring to select the new editors of the 
paper, these officials were selected be
fore, the Christmas vacation. They 
will spend the time until spring recess 
becoming familiar with the duties 
they will undertake, and then will as
sume office after the recess. The new 
editor is Walter L. Scott, '29.
Rushing Committee 
To Meet Dean Tarbell
Carnegie Glee Club To 
Compete In ContestMusic Notes
by SARA E. WONDERS
January I?;Paul lvocnauski, Pol
ish violinist, will be heard here in the 
fifth May Beegle concert at Syria 
Mosque, Tuesday evening, January 17. 
Mrs. Kochauskis program will include 
an Eighteenth Century group, ar
ranged by Ivreisler, the composers in
cluding Couperin, Boccherini, Romeau 
and Pugnini. Two concertos will be 
given, the Bach Concerto in A minor, 
and Wieniawski Concerto in D minor. 
Among the modern numbers will be 
Pavane, by Rovel-Koclianski.
The question asked this week was: 
What do you think about starting 
athletic relations with Duquesne Uni-versity?
Paul C. Allison, Junior in Commer; -cial Enginneering: "Until we are sure 
that Duquesne is governed by the 
same eligibility rules as Carnegie and 
the other colleges are, it is beiter_not 
to have anything to do with them, for 
we have everything to lose and noth
ing to gain. If we'd win, there would 
"be no credit given to us, and iV wed 
lose, it would be regarded as a big up
set.
Howard Harpster, Junior in Archi
tecture: We already have our ath
letic circle and I dont see any reason 
why we should drop any of them to 
schedule Duquesne. Duquesne is in a 
conference and I dont see why either 
Duquesne or Carnegie should alter its 
schedule.
Linn J. Holveclc, Sophomore in 
 Commercial Engineering: I think it
would be a good thing, for it would 
help Duquesne to get. on its feet. 
Duquesne has a good coach and 
theyll have good teams. They always 
i do have a good basketball team. It
would make the city title mean more 
because in he past Duquesne had bet| ter basketball tearff than either Pitt(
or Carnegie, but didnt have a chance 
to compete for . the title. Since they 
have been barred from participation 
. in athletics, they have a better right
! to play with Carnegie.
Harvey White, Senior in Building 
Construction: "Both Carnegie and
Pitt would lose more than they could, 
gain because there would be no glory 
in winning , from Duquesne. Athletic 
relations between the two schools are 
bound to come because Duquesne is a 
growing school, and they will schedule 
bigger, games. But there is no reason 
why Carnegie should schedule them 
at present. Especially since the
1 Arm-Navy mixup; the freshman rule
will have to be adopted by all colleges, 
and the only hope for Duquesne is to 
adopt it.
Saul R. Mielziner, Junior in Print
ing: "I do not think it would be ad
visable to start athletic relations with 
Duquesne University because Duquesnes athletics are rumored to 
have been shady. v And it would not 
be the best thing for Carnegie to risk 
lier status as a college. It would be 
i better to -play with other colleges of 
more reputable records, 'as Penn, 
Notre Dame, Purdue, Nebraska, Holy 
Cross, etc.
One of the most prominent of col
legiate musical events to be held in 
Pittsburgh will be embodied in the In
tercollegiate Glee Club contest which 
is to be held , in the Carnegie Music 
Hall in February. This contest is 
open to all first class college clubs in 
the tri-state district; some of the con
tending clubs will be Pitt, Waslfrngton and Jefferson, Penn State, Geneva 
and other qualifying club in this dis
trict.
Every member of the Carnegie 
club is anxiously awaiting the coming 
contest, for there is a great chance of 
victory, or at least, of close competi
tion. The voices, due to consistent 
efforts on the part of instructors and 
members of the Glee Club, are being 
blended with great skill. Indications 
are, that on account of the praise
worthy performances of the organiza
tion so far, Carnegie has one of the 
best clubs in^ts history. Continuance 
of the record it has made will insure 
our club an excellent showing in the 
competition.
Each participating club will. sing a 
number assigned to them by the judg
ing committee, and a number of their 
own selection, following which they 
will sing their own school song. Well 
known folk in the musical field will 
judge the comparative standing of the 
various groups.
Carnegie has as its instructor and 
director Harvey Gaul! of great capability4and talent in choral work. Wal
ter Poyntz, student director, will be in 
charge of the club during the actual 
competition.
Fraternity Attendance Plan 
Proposed by Student Coun
cil at Meeting
A number of miscellaneous points 
were brought up before the Iuterfraternity Council at the last meeting 
held last Saturday morning, January 
14. The points brought up were con
cerned with deferred rushing, stand
ard date for initiation, fraternities 
and assemblies, and relationship 
among the fraternities with a pro
posed remedy for better relationships.
The first point brought up for dis
cussion was concerning the Interfra
ternity Formal. Nothing was passed 
on and it was decided to allow mat
ters stand until after tli^ exams. 
Most of the details concerning the 
formal have been decided on. A 
standard date for holding the annual 
spring initiation was brought up for 
discussion. Most of the fraternities 
are set against such a proposal since 
most initiations are held at a frater
nitys most opportune time, that is a 
date on which no other function, 
school or fraternity, may conflict and 
also that the men to be initiated are 
considered prepared for it.
The committee on Rushing has 
given the council an account of their 
progress concerning their investiga
tions for and. against deferred rush
ing. A great 'deal of data lias already 
been gotten, from most of the frater
nities concerning their stand for or 
against and the financial Comparison 
and  statistics. The committee im
plores. full co-operation from all fra
ternities since a complete survey is 
needed if anything is to be accom
plished. The committee is to have a 
conference with Dean Tarbell con
cerning rushing this week and at 
which meeting this data will be dis
cussed.
The student council proposed a 
plan which was placed before the In
terfraternity council at this meeting. 
Each fraternity will be alloted a cer
tain section which the nlembers will 
occupy during the general assemblies. 
Another point discussed the rela
tionship between the fraternities on 
the campus. One remedy for batter
ing conditions was as follows: to or
ganize an Interfraternity club which 
will sponsor dances, dinners and other 
social activities at frequent intervals, 
all of these functions are to be gettogethers for closer friendship among 
fraternity men. Further discussion 
concerning these points will be 
brought up in the next meeting to be
ABOUT YOU
}
The Day of the 
Bare Head Fad 
Has Sped Away
January 20Louis Graveure, bari
tone, will appear at Carnegie Music 
Hall in a recital on Jauary 20. The 
singer's local appearance will be un
der the management of James A 
Bortz.
January 23A recital of sonatas for 
violin and piano by modern composers 
will be given on Janaury 23 in the P. 
M. I. recital room by Gaylord Yost 
and William H. Oetting.
RECITAL
By Students of the Department oF 
Music, Sunday, January 22,
1928, at 8:15 P. M.
PROGRAM
Grieg.....................................................
Sonata for piano and violin, Op. 13 
Lento deloronoAllegro vivace 
Allegretto tranquillo
Celeste Prietscli, Rose Aiello 
Handel  ........................... Reci
tative and Aria, "O Ruddier than 
the Cherry (Acis and Galatea) 
Paul Brantigam
Couperin-Kreisler ..............................
...........................Chanson and Pavane
Dvoralf-Kreisler .................................
....... i ... Slavonic Dance in G minor
Francoeur-Kreisler ............................
....................Siciliano and Rigaudon
Meredith Stump
Beethoven ............................................
...Variations in D minor for piano
Chopin ......................................... Two
Etudes, Op. 25, No. 1; Op. 10, No. 1 
Louis Crowder
Saint-Sans ............Rondo Capriccioso
Virginia Broolchart 
HaydnRecitation and Aria, "With 
Verdure Clad (The Creation) 
Lucille Hough
Dvorak ..................................................
x Piano Quintet in A major, Op. 81 
Allegro ma non tanto 
Charles Sliotts, piano.
Virginia Brookhart,* first violin. 
Davicl Fisher, second violin.
John Brletic; viola.
Grace Bazell, cello.
Accocmpanists, Lucille Burrell, 
Mary Long, Katherine McMilliu.
New Stetson Hat Showing at Gimbels
In our Balcony Hat Shop, we are showing the new John
B. Stetson Hats, and we want you men of Carnegie Tech 
to see the new, spring styles.
Spring Styles Favor Light Shades
Extremely light tans and extremely light grays are feat
ured in this new selection from the House of Stetson. 
New darker shades are offered too.
RESOLUTION OF FACULTY 
FOR DR. HAMERSCHLAG
Newest Stetson Shapes Offer Dignity
A radical departure is seen in the shaping of the new 
hats. No longer is the headpiece fashioned after the no
torious "rain hat, but is of sophisticated blocking.
WNSYEC 46OHE6R
FORMERLY KAUFMANN L BAER CO.
P. N. SINHA LECTURES TO
HINDUSTAN ASSOCIATION
Mr. P. N. Sinha, of Calcutta, spoke 
at the last meeting of the Hindustan 
Association, held in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College Recreation 
Hall, Carnegie Tech, on Saturday., 
January 14, 1928, at 8 p. m.
Mr. Sinha illustrated his lecture 
with lantern slides. He had some 
very attractive pictures on his subject 
which include;d the art, literature, 
philosophy, pHnces, palaces, temples,
| and palaces of India.
In his short visit here he brought a, 
very interesting lecture, which was 
open to the public.
HOME FOR YOUNG FOLKS
Prof. Miller Writes Book 
On The Life Of Childen
Professor Nathan Miller, of the 
Department of Economics, quite some 
time ago wrote a book, The Child in 
Primitive Society. His book is now 
being <published by the Kegan Paul 
Publishing Company in London, and 
in the near future it will be published 
in the' United States by Iiarcourt, 
Brace Publishing Company.
The book, as the name signifies, is 
about children. He wrote on their 
primitive notions, infancy and child 
hood and their primitive education. 
Professor Miller, who has spent over 
two years in collecting his work and: 
writing the book, and is very anxious 
to see it on the American press.suits my fast 
lite nobody! business
Ann Arbor, Mich.The University 
of Michigan, the college of architec
ture sent an exhibit of seven drawings 
last July to the Third Pan-American 
Exposition of Architecture held at 
Buenos Aires. Word has recently 
been received at the. college that two 
silver medals and an honorable men
tion were awarded to drawings in 
their exhibit.
One of the silver medals ^vas award
ed to the designs of a cathedral sub
mitted by Leroy E. Kiefer, who in 
1926 won the George G. Booth Travel
ing Fellowship in Architecture.
The other silver medal design by 
H. A. Tucker, 27A, represented a 
steamship terminal. J. Russell Redford '27A, received honorable men
tion on his designs for a railroad sta
tion.
The drawings are now on exhibition 
in the second floor corridor of the 
new Architectural building, and may 
be viewed there by the public during 
the hours that the building is open. 
The awards were made by a PanAmerican jury o architecture.
I KNOW what I like in a pipe, and what I like 
is good old Prince Albert. Fragrant as can be. 
Cool and mild and long-burning, right to the 
bottom of the bowl. Welcome as the week-end 
reprieve. Welcome . .. and satisfying!
No matter how often I load up and light up, 
I never tire of good old P. A. Always friendly. 
Always companionable. P. A. suits my tasp. 
Ill say it does. Take my tip, Fellows, and load 
up from a tidy red tin.
The tidy red tin that's 
packed with pipe-joy*Ann Arbor, Mich.  Muskegon, 
Mich., home town of Michigans AllAmerican football back, Bennie Osterban, presented that gentleman with a 
Christmas present of merit. It con
sisted of a diamond signet ring, pur
chased with the donations of his 
townspeople.
no other tobacco is like it!
 1928, R. Company,f. Reynold* Tobacco 'injion-Salcm, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

Plebe Quintet Loses 
To Pitt And Geneva
Dorothy Roy Wins Majors 
Cup For Rifle BeginnersRifle Teams Begin 
Matches For Seasonearn
Morning Service 11 A. M. 
Present Day Revelation 
Dr. Mason.
Tuskegee Singers will sing at 
the morning service. 
Evening Service 8 P. M. 
Jesus as a Product of His Age 
Dr. Smith.
SCHEDULE OF MATCHESDorothy Roy has won the silver cup 
offered by Major Taylor for the high
est score -lnade by beginners on the 
Girls Rifle Squad. This match was 
open only to girls who are 'shooting 
for the first time, this year. Eleven 
girls fired in the preliminaries, five 
of them tying for first place. These 
five proficient shots were: Florence
Bohleber, Katharine Collins, Made
leine Ferguson, Dorothy Roy, and 
Elsa Weber. Then, in the finals, Dor
othy Roy came out ahead with a score 
of 97 out of a possible 100. Catherine 
Collins was a close second with a 96. 
The long Winchester rifles were used 
in the finals, short muskets being em
ployed in the preliminaries. The new 
N. R. A. small bore targets, introduced 
this year, made it more difficult than 
in previous years to obtain such a 
high score.
Dorothy Roy is a Junior in the So
cial Work Department in Margaret 
Morrison, and is quite active on the 
campus. She was recently elected an 
honorary cadet captain of the R. O. 
T. C. Her membership on the Wom
ens Athletic Association Board indi
cates her prowess in other sports, as 
well as in riflery. This is Dorothy's 
first experience with a gun and she 
promises to become an excellent shot.
The cup will probably be presented 
at the next General Assembly. This 
is the second cup offered by Major 
Taylor, the one last year being won 
by Catherine Boyd,"then a Freshman 
in Margaret Morrison.
Losing two games is a discouraging 
way to start a season, but the Fresh
man basketball squad was not at its 
full strength in either of the two 
games. The Geneva score was 22-15, 
with the Plebes at the small end. 
As this was their first game and, 
playing it on a stsange court they 
were a bit nervous. In addition, acting-captain Nease, . running guard, 
suffered a sprained ankle the night 
before the game so that the team was 
without his services. Against Pitt, 
met last Friday night in a preliminary 
tussel to the Varsity game, the Frosh 
again lost, by a score of 37-30. L. 
Flanagan was high point man in this 
game with Black a close second. 
These two together with T. Flanagan 
played a spectacular game. Nease 
was only in the game three minutes 
when his ankle forced him lo retire. 
Bayliss,forward, had to be substituted 
for in th second quarter because of 
four personal fouls.
Tonight the Frosh meet Washing
ton and Jefferson on the Little Wash
ington floor. Because of some minor 
injuries among the regulars, the 
starting lineup is not known at pres
ent.
Varsity Handicapped by Lack 
of Material; 52 Men on 
Plebe Squad
Ohio Wesleyan 
Gettysburg College
February 11-
Last week the varsity rifle team 
fired a match with Mississippi A. & 
M. College, but the results have not 
yet been received. This is the second 
match this year for the team, but the 
first match which was fired with Vir
ginia Polytechnic Institute the week 
just before Christmas vacation, was 
incomplete, because V. P. I. failed to 
fire their score.
The prospects for the rifle team 
this year were very good at the be
ginning of the season, but a number 
of circumstances lias made things 
look somewhat different this semes
ter. Two of last years lettermen, 
counted on for the team, are not firing, 
and the second high man on the plebe 
team last year failed to return to 
school. Several other men who were 
among the best on the varsity and 
plebe teams last year are ineligible 
this semester, but these men are 
counted on to strengthen the team 
\ next semester. Another handicap has 
been the decrease in the size of the 
bulls eye, and the change in the 
standing position. These changes 
have required extra practice in order 
that the men become accustomed to 
them. It is not too late yet for any 
experienced men eligible for the var
sity team to come out and win a let
ter. Only eleven men competed for 
the varsity last week.
This week the varsity is firing 
against Lehigh University, and Wor
cester Polytechnic Institute, and al
though the team is somewhat handi
capped by shortage of men, they 
should be able to win these matches.
In contrast to the varsity team, the 
plebe team has 52 eligible men out for 
it, and among these is some very 
good material. This is a much larger 
group than was out for the plebe team 
last year, and some of these men 
should strengthen the varsity team 
next year. The plebes need to get all 
the practice they can in all four posi
tions, because there will be a shoulder 
to; shoulder match with Iviski in Feb
ruary. The new standing position 
will require lots of practice, and will 
be the big factor in determining the 
individual's ability and success as a 
rifleman.
The Plebe team fired a prone match 
with Delaware University and Univer
sity of Cincinnati freshman teams 
last-week. Tills week they are firing 
a prone match 16CARo West Virginia 
University, University of Missouri, 
Central High School, Washington, D.
C., and Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
February 25
University of Wyoming 
Michigan State College Depauw University 
University of Missourinjoys Can 
of Tobacco 
16 Years Old
March 3University of South Dakota
March 10University of Idaho
University of West Virginia 
University of Maryland
Waxahachie, Texas. May 18, 1926-Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
The agent while going through his plunder stored in our baggage room came across a can of your tobacco, and account of his not using a pipe he made me a present of this tobacco.You will note the revenue stamp and your memo which was inclosed. 
The tobacco was put up in 1910, sixteen years ago. But it was in good 
shape, of remarkable flavor, antf waa greatly enjoyed by me;
Thought you would be interested in knowing how your tobacco held out in these days of fast living.
Yours very truly,(signed) Gordon McDonald
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smokings T obacco
March 24
Penn StateUniversity of Michigan
March 31-Cornell University 
University of Kansas
FEW MODERN WOMEN ARE
UGLY, SAYS PHOTOGRAPHER
SKI BO FLOORM.EN
FALL BEFORE THE
PITT PANTHERS
Tech Beauty 
Shoppe
Sponsored by the Tech Barber 
Shop, announces 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Los AngelesAfter publishing a re
port on a lecture by Judge Lindsey, 
the Daily Bruin of the University f 
California Avas ordered to print no 
more of his lectures.Shampoo .............
Marcel Wave 
Water Wave
Facial........9.........
Manicure.............
Permanent Wave
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Open 'till 7 p. m.
4531 FORBESSTREET 
Near Craig 
Phone Mayflower 2838
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75,c$1.00$1.50 PER PAIR
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan SquareEstablished 1872
EG16 Iiaven, Conn.Stephen Vin
cent Bono!, in u current issuo of the 
Yale Uoviow oh ants 
I have fallen in love Avlth American 
names,
The sharp, gaunt names that never 
got fat,
The snake skin titles or mining claim1*, 
Tho plumed Avar bonnet of Modlolno 
Hat,
Tucson and DoadAVOOd and Lost Mulo 
Flat.
I shall not rest quiet In Montparnasse.
I shall not lie easy in Wincholsoa.
You may bury my body in Sussex 
grass,
You may bury my tongue in Champmedy,
I shall not bo tlu*vo. I shall riso and 
pass.
Bury my heart at Wounded Knee.
The Denver Clarion comments on 
the poem:
"Ali, the glory of American names. 
Oh, the fire that dances up Avitliin 
Avhon one mentions Old Woman Creek, 
PoAvderliorn, Del Norte, Ijig Sandy 
Cripple Creek, Grizzly Flats. Tonemali is a fusion of gold, sand and 
blood; Nancos, a dust devil Avaltzing in a parched land. Wah-Avah moun
tains sends a shiver doAvn your ver
tebrae; Bull Frog makes you smile 
and dream; but Big Horn churns the 
blood, and you dodge a ghost on horse 
back; Avhizzing by out of the past, sad
dle trappings and firearms glistening, 
horse foam dripping, the riders black 
eyes jeting a ruby flame.
Come, poets, give ear to the melo
dious curses sizzling up from the 
roots of the sage brush and belloAv 
like bison on sampede the latest 
songs of the Nex-j>erce, Naugatuck 
and Silver Plume.
This ad is worth one dollar to any student renting a 
Tuxedo Suit from us 
COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIES
Ad must be presentediiy^EnB2}
Tapered Y.0- 
Roller Jfcl
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone 2604 . Night Phone Lafayette 4791-ROakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Iteserve System
The Oakland Bank
Capital - - - $300,000.00
Surplus-----$400,000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
if V I S I O N>)
C, lROGRESS p 
1 SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
LEO1NCNA9 is u profession with great promise for 
n sucecssful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 1. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
!\A!U FMN N 91
FIFTH AVENUEPITTSBURGH
PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
S 1TU l-ie CAUSES A AM FHL1YS
,P ooGOG OVL BDJG79SECTION_______
2FGJJ. ,G88K UO8 M
AIM'TVo'sSfiATYou 1 ,-------------------
ALL.' S (VIUMBAH 9 ^
WHEN HS (SETS OtO The TRAIN 
Ht? GIGGS' AN! ir^MTA-rifM OR TH<= 
MOTRS DAME PooT^ALL TEA^ 
TKlrsG OKJ~T Tue OPPO S\T[Ot^
- /mud vAJneM You'Re Tr-Yikjg, Tb 
RlB^D, He fOTERTiUPTS YoU WITl-V 
Ml S FboLtM QUESTloiO S.
CAH You T6LL MG VUHGh4 VAJK CHANGE
Oo78 ? i>o  i8Lt 
cP 6G16thV ,1hI k
T OR. AHEAD ? J
'^HUT
L upCAR-Sr^oK&
OUV
GO'-v
L oADThat haisd if YouD 
FIMESS5D THE ' QDEEn OR 6PADE.S
On the Plaid Screen
T ,P garpraXse pA ummpF
On Friday night, before a large crowd of non-partisan spectators, and 
Pitt students, with here and there a Carnegie student, the.Skibo basket ball 
team went down to defeat before the Pitt Panther, on the latters floor. The 
score, 67-28, indicates that without a doubt Pitt had the better t'eam, but they 
have been the better team in all eight of .their seasons games, so Carnegie 
need not feel slighted.
The tendency of many Carnegie students, before the Pitt game, but par
ticularly since this game, has been to razz the team for not producing vic
tories. But this, we think, is not justified. Alibis galore exist for the loss 
of the first two gamessickness, stars not outtheyre well known enough 
to need no emphasis here. The Score of the Pitt game is pointed to as in
dicative of a very poor team, since the strongest possible lineup performed 
against the Panther. But here too, we think there exist extenuating circum
stances. The lineup which faced Pitt had very little practice together, yet 
it did as well against the greatest college floor outfit this section has ever 
seen, as Syracuse, Ohio State and a number of other high rating fives.
We have maintained before, as we do now, that this years team will 
prove itself to be the best in many years. " Check up on this after the home 
games start.*  * * * * *r.
Tonight the team meets W. & J., away. A Carnegie basket ball team has 
never yet beaten a Wash-Jeff quint, and a Plaid victory tonight is expecting 
almost too much. But win or lose, we do think that the team will show con
siderable improvement and will let the Presidents know that they were in 
a real game.*******
Many of the basket ball coaches in the midwest have b^en experimenting 
in practice with the newbasket ball rule-, scheduled to go into effect "next, 
year, limiting the dribble to one bounce, and are changing from their former 
position of opposition to it. Most of them say that they are now convinced 
that the rule will speed up the game, and will tend to make it extremely dif
ficult for a team to stall once it secures a lead. In addition,1 the point is 
stressed that the new rule would discount the star player, and would place a 
premium upon team, work, which may or may not be an adVantage. / *******
Carnegies riflers are keeping the basement of the Margaret Morrison 
building in an uproar these days from their amost constant firing, as the 
mens, varsity, the mens plebe and the womens varsity teams are all in the 
thick of matches, while those not on the teams spend their spare time prac
ticing. The girls are doing well again this year, and may realize their ambi
tion of defeating the men's teanrj, as they almost did last year.
Intercollegiate Briefs
covered in three years instead of five, 
which did not greatly matter as so 
many of the men concerned had had 
engineering experience before the 
war.
Today there are at Loughborough 
students of every nationality. What 
might be called a League of Nations 
night was once held in the club room, 
and on that occasion students of no 
less than sixteen different nationali
ties contributed an item typical of the 
country from which they came. It 
was a Loughborough College band of 
men too, who set out in the Wild 
Goose to found a colony on an unin
habited island in the West Indies, and 
the crew of twelve had many strange 
adventures before they scattered into 
various jobs which offered themselves 
en route. The college magazine, The 
Limit, each term records the doings of 
ex-students in many parts of the 
world. Bearing this in thought, it 
seems only fitting that the proposed 
American tour should take place, and 
probably it will be the forerunner of 
many ventures of a similar type.
Topeka, Ivan.Central Intercolle
giate Athletic Conference is the name 
adopted by the new combine of seven
Kansas chools which seceded from the j name adopted"The Mid-Continentai
Kansas conference this year. The 
new name was chosen after severe ob
jection had been made to the first
Intercollegiate Athletic Association." 
The first name was termed a head
line writers nightmare.
Cambridge, Mass.(By Harvard
Crimson and Intercollegiate Press.) 
Returning after four months in the 
deserts of'Africa, W. B. Cline,' a Har
vard graduate in the class of 1924, 
Department of Anthropology, has 
brought back a report of the natives of 
the Siwa Oasis, which is located near 
Tripoli, that reveals important infor
mation about the inhabitants of this 
place, according to a statement given 
to the Harvard Crimson.
Little or no work had been done by 
any expedition or society in this re
gion before Clines solitary trip, and 
the data collected points out the pecu
liarities of these people, and promises 
to clear up the mystery of their ori-, 
gin. \
The people of Siwa are extremely 
superstitious and of low character, 
he went on to say, and are followers 
of Mohammed.
Their superstition Is iluustrated 
by two amusing incidents I had. 
When I first arrived in Siwa, after a 
ten day journey by camels, from Tri
poli, the police thought that I was a 
German spy, because I carried a cam
era and was named Cline. Later I 
was considered an Italian spy by the 
Arabs who ply between Tripoli and 
Siwa because Italy had forced them 
to abandon their direct route between 
these two cities, and to take a more 
distant one which had fewer watering 
places. The Italians had also taken 
Jagabub, a sacred shrine of the Senusi 
sect, one of the two Mohammedan re
ligious sects that exists in Siwa, and 
the loss of this town naturally was a 
severe blow to them.
"Marriage, he continued, best ty
pifies their low character. At 14 years 
of age, the girls sell themselves as 
wives to any man who is able to pay 
them $7, and it is not strange for a 
girl to marry at least 20 times in her 
life-time. Althought the men are al
lowed by Mohammedan law to have 
four wives, very seldom does one find 
them with more -than two at a time, 
but one is divorced and a new one 
taken on every month or so.
The fact that not more than one in. 
fifty can write his name, shows the de
gree of their illiteracy, Cline stated, 
and although the Egyptian govern
ment has provided a school for the 
wealthier boys, little that is of value 
is taught to them,
Their stupidity is further revealed 
in their awe for a half-wit, and in one 
particular instance-^t is carried,- out 
to a high degree. One of them, called 
My Lord Musa, was held as one who 
was connected with Heaven, because, 
certainly, his mind was not on earth. 
He delighted in collecting bits of wood 
and running to a pool of water and 
throwing them in, bu,t once he was al
most cured of begging for his favorite 
article, when a British army officer 
ga^ye him a quinine tablet, which he 
ate. When these half-wits die, they 
are placed in a sacred tomb, and .there
after women go to the tomb and pray 
for some stricken member of their 
family.
When a man is buried, members 
of his family pour a pyramid of white 
sand on his abdomen so that he will 
not get restless and try to come back 
to his wife who immediately after his 
death becomes marketable as another 
mans wife.
ENGINEERING ENTERPRISE
AT LOUGHBOROUGH COLLEGE
Anything so ambitious as a tour of 
the United States does not yet come 
frequently within the scope of a stu
dent of an English college, but ar
rangements are being made for the 
engineering students of Loughbor
ough College, Leicestershire, to visit 
America next summer, should enough 
applications be received to warrant 
the carrying through of the project.
It is hoped that facilities will be
available to visit such industrial.con
cerns as the Ford works, the General 
Electric plant at Schenectady, the 
steel and plate glass works at Pitts
burgh, the Baldwin Locomotive Works 
at Philadelphia, and the machine tool 
works at Cincinnati. Sandwiched be
tween these visits will be a certain 
amount1 of; sight-seeing in New York. 
The Niagara Falls will be visited, and 
possibly the trip will be extended in
to Canada to take in Montreal and 
Quebec.
Loughborough College is by way of 
being an educational experiment, al
though the lines upon which it is run 
are only experimental in that they 
are new to England. Instead of the 
usual engineering training whereby 
a boy spends a certain period in a 
works followed by, or preceded by, a 
period of theoretical training in 
classrooms and laboratory, the sys
tem here is that practice and theory 
are combined, being taken throughout 
'the five years' course In alternate 
weeks.
Training on production is the slogan 
of the college, and the workshops are 
organized on the lines ^f a modern 
factory from the inquiry office to the 
inspection department. All work done 
is in connection with orders received, 
and the fact that orders are not diffi
cult to obtain testifies to the quality 
of the work performed. The students 
programs are arranged so that they 
have good allround general experi
ence for the first three yearsin the 
pattern shop, foundry, fitting and ma
chine shop,  automatic lathe shop, 
welding shop, costing office, drawing 
office, etc. During the last two years 
they specialize, both in works and in 
classes, electrical engineering stu
dents, for instance, specializing in 
works on. switchboard rpairs, etc., 
and the automobile students putting 
in their time work in the pits be2ars in need ^of r
garage.
The college is rich in social life, 
there being many societies under the 
control of the students council and 
the college union. Thirty acres of 
well laid out playing fields include 
soccer, rugger, hockey and cricket 
pitches, nine tennis courts and a 
swimming bath. Debating societies, 
scientific societies, a wireless club, 
a dramatic club, an orchestra, etc., 
all flourish.
At the beginning of the war, Dr. 
Herbert Schofield found that Lough
borough, of ^hich he had but recently 
been made the head, was merely a 
technical school of the type to be 
found in most small industrial towns 
in England, the chief classes being 
those held at pight for day-time work
ers in the engineering works in the 
town (the brush works where the 
Ljunstroem turbines are manufactur
ed, and the Herbert Morris works of 
crane fame are both in Loughbor
ough.) Then, when the war came, Mr. 
Schofield, as he was then, seized the 
opportunities presented.
Supported by  faithful staff, many 
of whom are .still with him, he per
suaded tile Ministry of Munitions to 
turn the college into a center for the 
training of munition workers. At the 
conclusion of the war, he persuaded 
the Ministry of Pensions to turn the 
college into a center for the training 
of ex-soldiers of both officer and rankj er type. By this time, the cllege had 
j expanded considerably and the work( shops contained some of*>the best and 
most modern .machinery in the coun
try, and two Diesel engines from Ger
man submarines were later presented, 
and are now used as sources of pow
er. (These engines, under treaty 
terms, can only be put in educational 
establishments or sunk. It was for 
the ex-officers that the diploma course 
as it now stands was first instituted 
although the ground then had to be
Lawrence, Kan. (By University 
Daily Kansan and Intercollegiate 
Press.)As a beat youre a cold and 
disemal failure! said the glum and 
discouraged reported to the classical 
museum. If you werent so hopeless
ly behind the times there might be 
some chance for you, but as it is no 
one but those who speak Greek ever 
come near the place. Why dont you 
jazz up a bit?
I like that! said Diana, with spir
it. And me with a skirt above my 
knees! By the way, had you noticed 
my knees? Not bad, are they? I 
dont wish to seem vain, but Im truly 
thankful that I dont have to wear 
those long, drabbling skirts some wo
men affect.
Tastes differ, said. Venus tartly. 
Personally I think youd look better 
if your head were in proportion to the 
rest of you. Also, if you don't mind 
my saying so, your hairs all wrong. 
Looks like Sis Hopkins.
Im growing it out, explained 
Diana stiffly.
I thdugh you would, said Venus. 
There, there, girls! interposed 
Apollo, In haste. Dont be catty. 
What you both need is a marcel like 
mine.
The reporter interrupted. Theres 
a fellow over there in the corner looks 
as if hed make a good cheerleader, 
he admitted. Of course he'd ne,ed 
training. Hes very awkward.
"Cheer leader?* chorused the Mu
seum. "Thats not a cheerleader. 
Thats the Borghese Warrior!'
A night student, on transferring re
cently to a new course, was asked by 
the instructor to present his card from 
the Registrars office. After fumbling 
over the contents of his pocket for a 
tjme he replied in all seriousness: 
"Im sorry. I dont seem to have my 
resurrection card on me this evening. ! *;
January Clearance
Begins Tomorrow
r
HIS is the time when all overstocks and 
slightly soiled and mussed merchandise is 
sharply reduced for quick disposal,as we 
advertisers say !
And really, lots of the things are well worth 
looking at. There are dresses for instance, and 
coats and all such wearables,--things of which but 
one is left in stock from a line of sizes and colors 
formerly complete.
And then, while a last half-yard of strawberry 
pink taffeta has no excuse for existence in the 
merchantile eyes of the Joseph Horne Co., it might 
be the very thing for the boudoir dolls new gown.
A slightly soiled and mussed hankie simply 
cant be seen in the store, but its really not harmed 
the least bit, as far as the person who pays halfprice fo'r it is concerned, because one has to wash 
linens before they can be used, anyhow.
So it is throughout the store. All kinds of 
things, from hats to shoes. . . . .books. . . .writing 
paper (only the boxes are dirty!). . .lingerie. . .hos
iery. . . .jewelry and handbags (odd lots). . . .um
brellas. . . .luggage. . . .everything, almost!
Selections diminish with unbelievable rapidity 
in these Clearance Sales.  Twill pay you to cut a 
class or two to get here early.
2RETH :6AE W5
The Best Place to Shop After All
Theres at Least One on Every PullmanBy BRIGGS
S W7l OVL syn' sWa V8 O8YYF 
You Hoou lo lY1. PGBJA ,JoU!L
HAND ----------------------------------------------------
1 You HAD hwWXdry o7 
Ate Gold7he Smoother and Better Cigarette 
i... not a cough in a carload
 1928, P. Lorillard Co., Et. 1760 I

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1928
PHONE MAYFLOWER ZCOO 
Publiiilied ono every week luring the college 
year by undergraduate of Carnejile Inutltuto 
of Technology. Entered in tbe Plttoburgh 
Pont Office an necond-cbinn matter. ,
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor........Milton Cohen
NewV Editor................Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred Wood
Women Editor..;..................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS Russell Bullinger William RoseA. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Schni'oder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan MillerSara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralston Harold JacobsonDorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERSH. L. Bunker, Jr. 
E. Jarema T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay 
C. Park 
J. J. Boyle 
H. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe H. Levinson 
J. W. Eason 
II. Booth 
M. Ediles 
N. Kline 
W. H. Worlaml 
W. H. Martsolf
Ina Ilansell 
E. Schlesinger
B. Kann
J. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. O'Donnell 
R. Bramson 
H. Whitehille 
R. Barr 
A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson 
C. F. Ackenlieil
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants..........R. Wehrle, T. R Zenk
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants
G. Bralimst J. Roth
G. C. Iiarbison G. Thompson B. Wedner 
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
R. W. Carter
A. Frank 
A. HaynesC. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone I. LevinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Ceville
OfficeRoom 12, Induntries BuildinK. Oflic* 
HouraMonday to Thtirndayn, 12:30-1:20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To innurc publication on the nucceeding 
Tueodny, newn items munto be in the ntudent 
poiit ofllce or Tartun Oflice before 4 :30 Thurnday.
After OfTlce Ilourn call Scbenley 1400, 
Sohenley 1I84C, Schcnlcy 9211.
BAGPIPESA former oditor of Tartan suggests 
bagpipes! And after due considera
tion, it must be acknowledged that a 
Kiltie band of Carnegie Highlanders, 
wearing the plaid of Cameron Erraoht, 
is most certainly incomplete without 
the native (instruments of old Scot
land. A bagpipe corps as a section of 
the famous Kilties would be a wel
come addition to Carnegies musical 
forces.
A few yoars ago there did oxlst a 
right loyal group of '8'kibo pliers, but 
through lack of sufficient interest the 
organization was allowed to dwindle 
and die. Its spirit still lives, liovvovor, In the minds and hearts of the 
Hiimo men who organized and trained 
the original Carnegie plpors. An offor to revive the old order and again 
train a 1 bagplpo corps has been re
peated, and II. is to bo tdncoroly hoped 
that enough interest may bo evi
denced in/ the undertaking to make 
its Mjiceestji assured The situation 
rests, With the underclassmenSopho
mores and Freshmen.
Such ix project Involves the secur
ing of Instruments and uniforms, and 
tho training of the corps. The first 
problem may be solved in any one or 
several ways, and a solution for tho 
second has boon virtually reachod. 
All that remains Is an expression of 
interest on the part of the student 
body and a display of action by thoso 
lower classmen who may be capable 
and willing for the uudertaking. 
There would be little benefit derived 
from training others who might bo 
leaving the campus within a year or 
two. This opportujglty is in reality a 
challenge to the spirit and imagina
tion of the members of the^youngest 
classes, and Tartan will welcome any 
comment or suggestion that may be 
offered in connection with the sug
gested bagpipe corps for our Kiltie 
Band.
S. C. R.
Washington, D. C.(IP.)A gift of 
$1,000,000 from the Supreme Council, 
Scottish Rite Masons of the Southern 
Jurisdiction to George Washington 
University, Washington, D. C., for the 
establishment of a school of govern
ment has just been announced by the 
Supreme Council and the Trustees of 
the University. The school will be in 
operation with the opening of the fall 
semester in 1928;
This gift is the largest ever received 
by George Washington University in 
its 107 yoars of existence, and is 
among the largest ever made to any 
educational institution in the Natlonaal Capital. Tho disposition of the 
fund will be entirely in the hands of 
the Unlvorsity Trustees, the givors roContribs
Jasuary 8, 1928. 
Mr. Fenton Finn, Editor The Car
negie Tartan," Carnegie Tech,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Many, many years ago there were 
no Kilties at Carnegieonly an excel
lent band garbed in dark blue. And, 
In a modest way, it was a very good 
band. It played all the school songs 
and a certain march with much vigor 
and snap, it had mastered several 
pleasing formations, and In marching 
It rivalled the R. O. T. C. But In those 
days little was expected of bands 
public interest bad not yet been 
aroused in themIn Importance they 
were second even to the college pa
per.
WV years passed and colleges em
phasized football more and curlculla 
less as magnets to attract prospective 
students, influential friends and 
wealthy alumni, the band was sud
denly discovered as a quite valuable 
adjunct to the eleven. Before the 
game It paraded around the town and 
between halves it commandeered the 
fiold. It personified, somehow, the 
spirit or essence of the college itself. 
And this discovery made, bands were 
taken into skillful hands and re
created quite as the bontanist re
creates the spiny cactus to. secure 
cattle fodder..
During such a transition period 
kilts came to Carnegie. Uniforms 
were selected and with much travail 
the needed money was gathered. At 
the Notre Dame game, late in Novem
ber, the Kilties made their debut 
very grand and very cold. Pittsburgh 
papers sounded, echoed and re-echoed 
the grandeur of our Highlanders. Of 
course, it was all superficeonly the 
old band dressed up in new uniforms 
but it was good stuff for several 
years. Then people began to ask, 
Where 're the bag pipes?'' and forgot 
their early interest in the unique at
tire.
Previous to their first dry cleaning 
the kilts, had'been re-inforced in their 
attack upon the public imagination by 
a small group of real bag pipers led 
by Mr. Blackball/ of the Forge Shop. 
But this re-inforcemefit suddenly van
ished as completely as a forgotten 
memory.
In 1926 the Kilties invaded New 
York and the astonished local gentry 
first gasped and then left disap
pointed. Kilties without' bagpipes! 
All Hooey, they decided, like snake 
oil, the new Paramount Theatre and 
True Confessions. . . In 1927
tho Kilties reinvaded the island,. None 
but newsboys selling papers as pro
tection against the damp seats paid 
them any attention. . . The Kilties 
had boon found out.
Surely a school which cherishes its 
traditions as does Carnegie cannot 
feel entirely satisfied with a mongrel 
band. Why are there no bagpipos 
and their accessories?
Consider a real Kiltie band at Car
negie -songs and marchesprepared 
especially for bagpipes by the Music 
Departmentwith tho heather prac
tically sticking out all over it. Be
hind such a, band a Tartan should be 
proud to walk anywhere. Can tills 
dream bo materialized?
If the Inducement Is sufficient, yes?
I-Iavo: a, training school for ambi
tion Plobos and there teach them tho 
rudiments of the skirl and tho toot. 
Sot tho roqulromonts high and prom
ise them four yoars of hard work. 
Then give them a real award a C."
Tho undertaking is not an impossi
ble one and its existence should quite 
repay all the efforts of creation. But 
it will require severe disciplining and 
much hard work.
Carl Winnin.
COLLEGES FOUND
IN MINOR ROLL
Colleges are, of course, educational 
institutions, and, while a fundamental, 
are only a minor part in lifes educa
tion, is the reply given by Clarence 
W. Barron, financial publisher, to the 
question, should colleges be educa
tional institutions? asked in a re
cent address by Dr. Ernest H. Hop
kins, president of Dartmouth Col
lege. Dr. Hopkins question was based 
upon a critcism of higher educational 
institutions by Mr. Barron.
Colleges," Mr. Barron continued, 
should not, as of old, be apart from, 
they should rather be a part of the 
life, the living, the thought, the busi
ness of all the people. Business now 
presents many fields of education that 
are far superior for certain lines of 
service to anything that can be found 
In any system of academic education. 
Tho objecticyu to many forms of high
er oducation is that they deflect the 
youth away from his proper service 
instead of starting him on tho road to 
achievement.
The publisher explains ho made notabling no jurisdiction.
The gift, which is in lino with tho I criticism of tho training of men for
educational policy of tho Supromo 
Council, is in tho form of a memorial 
to George Washington, the Mason, 
and will carry into execution the de
sire expressed in Washingtons will 
that there lie established in the Na
tional Capital a university where the 
youth of the land might acquire knowl
edge in the principles and politics of 
good government. While the securi
ties left by George Washington spec
ifically for the establishment of such 
an institution became worthless, 
George Washington Univers1' found
ed in 1821, is regarded now' ulfilling Washington's ideal.
tho professions, natural sciences or 
the arts, nor was there any attempt 
to sot up the acquisition of wealth as 
a dominant factor in oducation." He 
objected, however, to the asserted dis
position of the book man to keep 
narrow the definition of education, 
and to arrogate to himself some spec
ial function or wizardry in respect to 
human thought and progress."
llere s to the 
students; theu7il 
need us '
7
MOTHER INDIA
PLAY REVIEW
THE TIDINGS BROUGHT TO MRY
Providence, R. I.Tradition was 
broken at Brown University when 
William J. Cashman, non-fraternity 
man, was elected president of the 
Senior class. \
A Review.
The latest play presented by the 
Drama Department is called a Mys
tery, and it is well named, speaking 
both in a literary and in a literal 
sense. Jaded Americans, accustomed 
to the obvious, the trite, and the sen
timental in drama, find the Gallic 
subtlety, the mysticism of this play a 
welcome dish of spices after so much 
pap; that is, some Americans; many 
of us may be only puzzled and re
pelled by the unaccustomed fare.
The play is Gallic, too, in its 
abundance of talk; Gallic in the fact 
that much of this talk falls in mystic 
cadence upon the ravished ear, 
charming, but unintelligible. Yet 
some of the more sensitive souls 
among us wo\ild not have it other
wise, for the Mystic represents more 
than mere clarity; he holds before 
the world a crystal,, in which he who 
looks closely and well may j &ee vis
ions; cheap window glates is not for 
him"A has les realists!, lie cries. 
Down with the pawnbrokers of the 
adventitious! Down with all sense 
conditioned experiences, down with 
phenomena! Let us concern our
selves intuitively with pure essences!
Yet the play appeals also to the 
sweeter sortto those romanticists 
who would have the dead restored to 
life, the leper cleansed; who wish and 
believe that virtue should triumph, 
and that light should come into bar
ren places, and that God should, and 
does, deny his laws by working 
miracles; that he who, they say, pro
nounces judgment upon all of us, 
dealing out life and disease and pain 
and laughter and death to children, 
and poverty of body, of mind and of 
circumstance to men, and bate, the 
seed of death and warthat this God 
should, upon due, receipt of sufficient 
supplication, give back to one man
gled being the wholeness of its body/ 
to one special crushed creature its 
little sufficiency-1in his infinitude, of, 
mercy. Tills is tho queer obsession 
that long ago took hold of our fathers, 
and still stirs vaguely in some of us-- 
tliis altogether human way of regard
ing the cosmos. It is a matter for 
much talk in certain high places, and 
a good subject for playwrights, poets, 
psychopaths and such.
In M. Claudels play we have not 
one of these miracles, but four. This 
was the plays chief weakness, caus
ing. some of the power to be lost, and 
leading almost to a surfeit of mira
cles. But of course, in a medieaval 
drama, four miracles should not trouble us; there were so many miracles 
then! Perhaps it is only our jealousy 
that makes us gibe at them.
It is silly to criticize a 'Mystery 
play on such groundswhat we 
should do is to take the subject mat
ter for granted, and treat the whole 
as a purely aesthetic experience. For 
of course the piece was beautifulin 
language, in character, in. setting, as 
well as in theme; and each of these 
elements was capably dealt with by 
the director. The production was 
worth all the work lavished uponit 
by so many peoplenot forgetting the 
scene shifters. The scenery was 
Avorth shifting, too. ,
Three actors gave especially satis
factory performances: Miss Wein
berg, Mr. Willson, and Miss Kosinski. 
The first of this triumvirate has the 
sort of vitality which an audience de
sires in an actor; at once it recog
nizes that here is someone who is in
tellectually and physically alive  a 
sort of tliespfan tonic. One actor of 
this sort does much for a play; and 
Miss Weinberg did.
Mr. Willson was at his best as the 
old master, a mixture of humanity 
and hardness. None of the over-act
ing, the attitudinizing, which ruined 
his interpretation in Measure for 
Measure and at times marred his 
playing in Tho Life of Man, was 
present in his characterization of 
Anne Vercors. Mr. Willson seemed 
not to be acting a part, but to be sub
merged in it. Let him follow this 
worthy precedent, and not relapse 
again into mannerism, posturing, ex
aggerated gesture, exaggerated facial 
expression, and he will do splendid 
work. He has flexibility and a pleas
ing voice, which is not without power. 
If he continues in the fine simplicity 
and dignity which he gave to this 
latest part, his acting will have ten
times the vitality and force.
Miss Kopinski showed again that 
she can act a human being better 
than a saint. Her Mara was appro
priately apish in youth and malig
nant in maturity.
Mr. Rogers was a masterful 
Jacques, but his conception of. the 
character did not always tally with 
what the playwright seemed to indi
cate; he made the audience expect a 
subtle villain, something like Don 
John in Much Ado, while obviously 
Jacques was not a villain at all, but 
a simple countryman, honest enough, 
although inclined to be unreasonable.
Miss Finsterwalds Elizabeth, on 
the other hand, was too simple, too 
much like a peasant. Mr. Greenberg, 
in the serene moments of character, 
was successful enough; when emo
tional disturbance was necessary his 
Pierre was somewhat unpleasant. 
Brutus Woods enormous, resounding, 
Rabelaisian (I j insist that it is 
Rabelaisian) voice was welcome, 
though heard only' for , a moment. 
And finallyMrs. Perritts beautiful 
singing of the plain songs, just as 
they should have been sungsimply, 
evenly, with exactly the ..same quality 
on high and low notes, and without 
the least affectation..
Thanks be to you, Mr. Browne, for 
this play; please give us more like 
it. There have been so many trivial/ 
pieces these last few years! , Down 
town it' is impossible to see anything 
but Spiders and Bats and Canaries 
and such vermin; in the appalling, 
desolate waste of Pittsburghs 
wretched dramatic seasons Drama 
School productions like this are the 
only oases for us poor, parched people.
K. S. N.
Colleges Advised To Lay
Stress On Character
Providence,. R. 1.Colleges in the 
United States must pay more than the 
present disgracefully low salary or
dinarily received by college profes
sors, if higher education is to attract 
the able young men and, women need
ed to keep ;up the standards of that 
profession, says Otis E: Ransdall, dean 
of 'Bi-own University, in a report pre
pared for presentation to the Asso
ciation of American Colleges.
The character of tlie teaclier, says 
the report, is more essential to edu
cation than the material equipment 
of large institutions, and the useful
ness of teachers should be judged on 
their ability to impart knowlede, as 
well as to acquire it. Popular senti
ment, it is pointed out, must learn to 
value intellectual training for its own 
sake and not merely for its moneygetting possibilities.
From the years research by eight 
educational leaders in various parts of 
the United States which has marked 
the preparation of the report, the 
committee ass.erts little progress can 
be made in interesting able young 
men and women to adopt the profes
sion of teaching so long as conditions 
in the educational world remain as 
they are.
A factor contributing to the unde
sirable situation, the committee holds, 
is the far from ideal attitude of the 
American people towiird education 
we value education not for edulations 
sake but rather for the practical use 
we may make of it.
The great majority of men go to 
college not for mental grow'tli and at
tainment but to make out of such men
tal equipnient as they may have, 
money, making machines. So long as 
this attitude exists no one can hope 
to make the profession of teaching 
very attractive to an ambitious 
youth.
"The man who gets a college edu
cation should be required to pay the 
teacher the actual cost of the service 
rendered. 1-Ie will bo obliged to do 
that for every other purchase which 
he may make in life. Why should lie 
pay less than cost for the most valu
able thing lie is able to secute?
We are often quoted as offering 
the greatest educational facilities in 
the world, tlie reports comments. 
We quote the millions we spend an
nually upon school buildings, grounds 
and equipment in order to educate 
our youth and feel confident we have 
done all that can be done. We are
Consider present-day India with 
Katharine Mayo:
A nation of three hundred millions 
of people, of whom only eight per
sons in a hundred are literate. The 
average length of. life is about 23 
years. Over three million women, or 
rather girls, die in childbirth each 
year. Two million babies die yearly; 
forty per cent of all babies born die 
in the first week, 60 per cent in the 
first month. Two out of a hundred 
women are literate. There are forty 
million women living in total seclu
sion, or purdah, never emerging 
for the greater part of their lives. 
Twenty-six million widows roam the 
streets, most of them under 30 years 
of age. Besides, there are' si^ty mil
lion pariahs or untouchables, 
comprising almost one-fourth of the 
total population whose status is much 
lower than that of the approximately 
twenty million sacred cows that trun
dle through the streets and homes 
carefully tended and worshipped.
These are. the base quantitative 
aspects as. given to us by Miss Mayo. 
For the appalling, amazing horrors 
and degradations one is referred to 
the stinging pages of the book itself. 
The abysmal sufferings and barbaric 
cruelties connected with child mar
riage are here detailed with unre
mitting nicety. The fearful fate of 
the widow and the woman is also por
trayed.
And all this in a nation but three 
weeks from New York!
Yet from this . same soil and this 
same social system there has sprung 
some of the most ineffable and su
premely enchanting literature, plumb
ing the uttermost depths of man and 
escending into the loftiest essence of 
the eternal verities.
Gandhi, the leader of the Swaraj or
non-co-operation movement in India,, 
excoriates this book as an unfaithful 
myopic account. He says:
The impression it leaves on my 
mind is, that it is the report of a 
drain inspector sent out with the on& 
purpose of opening and examining the 
drains of the country to be reported 
upon, or to give a graphic description 
of. the stench exuded by the open: 
drains.
It is' certain that these drains are 
not India. 'Some of the revolting cus
toms which are described by Miss 
Mayo are common to all peoples liv
ing upon the economic level of so
ciety represented by ancient India. 
In a patriarchal society the women 
are always subjected to the menest 
social position, barrenness is a curseand cattle are worshipped in the ridic
ulous manner described in India. 
Miss Mayo could do very well for thehair-raising thriller of the Sunday 
magazine sections or the tabloids, but 
the basic problems of India lie undis
covered by her.
It would ^ot do to judge the prob
lems of home-rule by her account of  
the political and economic situation.
Yet here is an immensely compli
cated imbroglio of faiths, races, and 
tongues in India with the British 
holding the point of vantage and pre
serving an uneasy balance. To 
evacuate the country might now bedisastrous, and yet"freedom is the 
most precious god of mortals.
An ancient social system does pro
duce filth and misery, judged by West
ern economic standards. Imagine the 
gain in lives prolonged and abject mis
ery avoided, for millions * of girlsthrough the adoption of the Western: 
factory system. But what of the eth
ics, the epic poetry, the imaginative 
flights of the philosophers?
There is much food for thought in 
Modern India.
N. M.
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle.
Examinations are upon us. Conse
quently, I, Thistledown, who have the 
power to blow from the present into 
either the past or the future as I wish, 
propose to relate for you a few true 
stories of some of the things which 
are ^going to happen to some Carnegie 
students who will flunk..
Whacker Plebe 30 things he knows 
enough to get by the course somehow 
without studying any more. He will 
go to a burlesque show the night be
fore the exam, and then flunk It, for 
the questions will be ^simpler than he 
expects and not the ones he exjiects. 
He will probably flunk two other 
courses, and so end all by jumping off 
the Institute bridge onto a coal train.
Luy Soup '29 will just fail to geta 
passing mark in dressmaking. As she 
lias been planning to make her own 
trousseu, Bhe will be overcome with 
fear at what her family may have to 
say to her. Two nights afterwards 
she will turn on the gas. She will be 
dead next morning, but her roommate, 
who is a native Pittsburgher and used 
to that sort of thing, will have better 
breakfast appetite than ever.
Tom Square and Bob Circle, both 
plebes, will sign a suipide pact, that 
if either one of them flunks math 
they will both eat their meals to
gether for a whole week at Skibo.
Paul Teadrink '28 is so badly off in 
his drama courses that the depart
ment will adyise him to withdraw. 
After posting, advance notices on all 
the bulletin boards, he will shinny th 
flag pole on the skyscraper apartment 
and jump off holding a Chinese para
sol in his right hand. The Pittsburgh 
Press will headline it as DRAMATS 
SPECTACULAR EXIT.
Norman Type '29' already on prc 
will flunk two courses. He knows 
now this will mean getting a job and 
spending his own money. When he 
finds that the Sun Tele has no posi
tion, to offer him in desperation he 
will throw himself into one of their 
presses, and come out covered with 
red and green headlines, and a full 
page advertisement of kitchen tin
ware.
Mildred Curl 28 will be afraid to 
face her parents when she learns how 
badly she has done. Ripping the 
fringe off her bedspread she will lower 
herself hand over hand to the ground 
from the third floor of her dorm. As 
she crosses Forbes street she will 
slip directly in front of a Yellow Cab. 
On the way to the hospital she will 
breathe her last breath in the arms 
of the chauffeur. Life will be kind to
forgetting that the quality of educa| tion which we offer will depend more 
upon the character of the teacher 
than upon any material equipment 
which we may provide.
The committee includes, in addition 
to Dean Randall, Dr. Clarence C. Lit
tle, president of the University of 
Michigan, Prof. Arthur O. Lovejoy of 
Johns Hopkins University, Prof. V.. A. 
C. Henmon of the University of Wis
consin, Prof. Robert H. Fife of Colum
bia Unipersity, Dr. Charles I-I. Judd of 
the American Council of Education, 
Dean W. E. Smyser of the North Cenj tral Association and Miss Mary Van 
Ivleeck of the American Association of 
University Women.
The report .recommends another and 
more extensive survey to be under
taken by full-time investigators with 
the support, if possible, of some of 
the educational foundations.
her at her end. She has much too big 
a nose tq expire normally in any sucli 
romantic situation.
Tom Wash '30 has talked so much 
about himself at home that every one 
in town knows the plot on which he 
is going to build a skyscraper. When 
he learns that he has flunked design 
he will philosophically., go over to the 
Grill to get some food, where he will 
drop dead from exhaustion, while 
waiting for his order to come out of 
the kitchen.
Steve Pipe '29, when he learns that 
he, will, have to stay out a semester 
because of. scholastic difficulties, will 
get into a wash bowl in Welch Hall, 
sprinkle himself with Bon Ami, turn 
on the water, pull the stopper, and 
disappear down the waste pipe.
Dear Thistledown: We dont care 
wliat you write, we think youre an 
old dear. The Woodlawn Quartet. 
Answer: How can I be, my dears, 
when Im a young buck?
YALE FRATERNITIES
AGAIN UNDER FIRE
New Haven, Conn., Jan. 14.De
mand for reform of the Yale fratern
ity system, which began last month 
while the annual6 campaign to secure 
members from the freshman class was 
in hectic progress, has been renewed 
with accusations that the selections 
of members were made unfairly at the 
recent elections.
The fraternity, agreement, drawn up 
and signed recently by the eight Yale, 
societies, hinged upon a common 
pledge not to approach members in 
advance of the day and hour agreed 
upon. This agreement, according to 
Robert W. Huntington, Jr., a senior 
who is leading the student agitation 
for reforms, was broken in a whole
sale way at the recent election. The 
societies were packe'd in advance, 
and some members were pledged be
forehand.
The Yale Daily News admits that 
it' is natural for the sophomore candi
dates for the societies to become in
volved ,.in the illicit business of pack
ing," and has suggested that annually 
a meeting be called by every fresh
man class to lay the evils of breaking 
the anti-packing system before the 
members before they become in
volved.
Suggestions for reform which un
dergraduates insist is imperative in
clude:
First, abolishing the dining together 
of society members in their own fra
ternity and Combining with the other 
and larger groups for dining units.
Second, throwing open the dining 
rooms in the fraternities to non-mem
bers.
Third, making all the large fratern
ity buildings which have been erected 
the past few years one great fratern
ity with interchanging meals.
The Yale Daily News admits that 
present conditions might lead to the 
formation of a gold coast by the 
fraternities and fraternity houses It 
said: -
The concentration of all the fra
ternities in the property between York 
and Park streets becomes a factor in I 
increasing the tendency to over
emphasize this side of Yale life.
We feel that we may keep the tra
ditions without allowing the idea of 
fraternities to become an obsession 
or to overshadow the broader scope 
of university life.New York Times.
