The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 10, November 18, 1980
Body of suicide victim 
found near Scaife Hall
, by Doug Kirsop
The body of a black male in his early 
thirties was found shot to death in a car near 
Scaife Hall last Saturday morning by Gimpus Police Officer John Serdy.
As Serdy was driving in for his 7 a.m. 
shift, he noticed a body slumped against the 
wheel of a 1972 Oldsmobile Cutlass coupe. 
He and CMU Corporal Ritchie then inves
tigated, and sealed off the entire area when 
they discovered that the man was dead.
The cause of the mans death has been 
determined by the Allegheny County Cor
oners Office as resulting from two gunshot 
wounds; one to the head and one to the 
chest. The cars engine was still running 
when Campus Police first discovered the 
body, but as of press time the time of death 
had not been determined.
Although a final ruling had not been 
made, the Pittsburgh Police Report indi
cated suicide as the probable cause of death.
According to the report, the front drivers 
side window' of the car had been shattered, 
most likely from percussion due to the 
sound from the two shots.
A small, unidentified firearm was also 
found by detectives underneath the body, 
and the bullets extracted from the body have 
been identified as having come from the 
weapon found in the car.
City Police traced the vehicle through its 
Pennsylvania license plates and found that 
it was registered to James Cuff of Pitts
burgh. Personal identification found on the 
body by homicide detectives identified the 
bodv as Cuffs.
Skills center out of cash
Cutbacks will force centers New Year closing
phoco by Robert Zusman
I fireman helps to extinguish the fire at the Saybrook building cm Craft avenue last Thursday. The fire destroyed 
iree floors of the building and left more than 100 people homeless.
by Jim Balsom
Budget problems will force the closing of 
the Communication Skills Center in Baker 
hall effective January 1. 1981.
H&SS Dean Patrick Crecine said the clos
ing was the result of a budget tightening 
process. The college had a slight decrease in 
enrollment over the last year and as a result 
its budget increase for next year will not be 
as great as hoped.
The center had been receiving funding
ader debates nuclear energy issues
by Alice Alfonsi houses Monroeville Nuclear Center, spoke energy.
YVere here tonight to locus on the energy first. My own suggestion for an improved For now, said Adleson, who is currenily
Ihoices that this technologically advanced energy plan includes the following steps: a liaison for Spanish utilities constructing
lation will make in the 1980s and beyond, 1. Progressively reduce the use of oil as a fuel tw o nuclear power plants, coal and nuclear
bid Karen Adleson during her debate with for electricity. (20% of oil imports would power are our only realistic means of large
fmuckraker Ralph Nader here last then be reduced.) scale generation of electricity. Again she
[Vednesday. 2. Reduce the burning of natural gas (13% cited references, including the Ford FoundaI4ie debate, sponsored by the activities for electricity), on the grounds that there are tion and the NAS.
toard, was moderated by Tom Kerr, a GSIA better end uses. Adleson concluded her opening stateKofessor. The subject was The Compari3. Clean up the burning of coal. rnents w ith a challenge to Nader. If there is
pn of Energy Technologies. Kerr pointed 4. Expand the use of nuclear power. a disagreement about any of the steps Ive
kit that the evening was more of a dialogue 5. Expand the small hydro-head sites and suggested...I ask to be shown on a quantitapan a debate, and was meant to inform. geothermal wells. tive comparison of short and long term
Adleson, a project engineer at Westin6. Where environmentally acceptable, bum impacts of our health, our environment,
-----------------------------------------------bio-mass, waste, and wood. and our economic soundness how...we will
nf V* 1CC11P meel new demands for electricity....UL llo lOJ UC    Adleson pointed out that nuclear powder is Quantitative seemed to be the key word
Ujclitorial a domestic resource which has the endorsefor Adleson. Before the debate, Adleson
the Presidency & History...................Pge 2 ment of the scientific and medical communcommented that Ralph Nader was an
f inancial Aid rip-off .....................page 2 ity. She cited studies done by the EPA, extremely articulate lawyer and that she
National Academy of Sciences, AMA, and wanted from him facts on energy mattersvews World Health Organization which have ...numbers, not articulate, entertaining
Problems plague Shirley Apts.........page 4 concluded that next to natural gas, nuclear anecdotes.
Tail less lectures ....................................page 5 power is the safest and most environmenAs Adleson predicted, Nader did open his
matures ' ' tally benign electricity source we have talk with an anecdote: ...for some years
Racier I r  <) today. now Ive been trying to get Robert Kervey,
^quitaT *>U ? U mltUSt................y As a jxjssible 7th step, Adleson felt that the head of Westinghouse, to discuss nuclear
( omta..........................................lXiKl - solar energy should be included only when power in a public forum. We called his
ntertainmmt technologically sound. Adleson made it very office this morning and invited him here to
)(Jath of a Salesman reviewed ... page 11 clear that she is an environmentalist and participate in the discussion and he said that
.f,orts believes in conservation: however, she unfortunately he couldnt come because hes
'mam win Eastern Regional*   l*W  alKUfd ** conse,vHion ** not Produ" ...mim-xl.... pa*. 
from two sources since it began sharing 
office space with the Academic Advisory 
Center in 1976. Both CIT and HfcSS have 
been funding the centers $40,000 per year 
operating budget.
On at least two different occasions, Cre
cine asked Warner Hall for additional sup
port in terms of increased funding. Both 
times the requests were rejected.
Crecine emphasised that the centers clos
ing doesnt mean that its services arent 
needed. He recognizes the need for a w rit
ing clinic of the centers nature, but feels 
there may be better ways to staff such a 
facility at a much lower cost.
By next fall, the English department may 
be able to pick up the major tutorial func
tions of the center as part of its graduate 
program, Crecine stated. He feels that the 
center, if staffed primarily by graduate students, would do as good a job as the cur
rent, but would consume a lot less of H&SSs 
resources.
Crecine said that the closing was a 
shame in light of the effort the Director 
Pete Jones put into developing the center. It 
was a tremendous service to the student 
body.
Douglas A. Fraser. President of the V.4 W spoke at the 
Benjamin Fairless lectures last urrk. Story on page 5.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Communication: Basic skills are lacking at CMU
Reading and writing skills are becoming 
scarcities even among the graduates of the 
nations most prestigious colleges and univer
sities. The problem of functional illiteracy is 
taking on national proportions as studies 
increasingly reveal the inability of many col
lege graduates to carry on basic functions of 
every day life. For example, it is no longer 
unusual for a trained engineer or businessper
son to be at a total loss when asked to write a 
simple memo to communicate information to 
his or her peers.
Despite the fact that students are graduating 
from college with highly technical skills, 
many cannot effectively communicate their
knowldge to others. CMU, among other insti
tutions, is producing top-notch engineers, 
scientists, artists and businesspeople; however, 
many of these students cannot solve the basic 
communication problems that will arise in 
their dealings with other people in the profes
sional world.
The Communication Skills Center was 
CMUs attempt to help remedy the communi
cation problem on this campus. The Center 
has helped hundreds of students with resumes, 
letters of application, homework assignments 
and various other writing problems. But des
pite the success of the Centers work, the com
munication problem has barely been touched.
The closing of the Communication Skills
Center is a sad indication that the university is 
not particularly interested in solving the prob
lem. The lack of support from the administra
tion in helping the Center through financial 
problems states clearly that the Center and its 
goals are secondary to other programs.
The Tartan is concerned about the universi
tys regular neglect of programs like the Com
munication Skills Center. We are concerned 
that the most basic part of our education is 
being forfieted. And, finally, we are saddened 
at the constantly recurring thought that CMU 
is merely producing technicians with a funda
mental lack of skills for effective participation 
in professional life.
77ie PresidencyHistory has a tendency to repeat itself
James Fallows worked as President Car
ters chief speech writer during the disas
trous first two years of the Carter 
administration. Upon resigning he wrote 
The Passionless Presidency, an authorita
tive two-part article in Atlantic Magazine, in 
which he explores the reasons behind Car
ters failure. Among the prime reasons was 
Carters advocacy of cabinet government, 
a reliance on the cabinent as the prime delib
erative body of the administration. Carter 
carrie into office intent that his appointees 
would be free to run their departments and 
would join to advise him as a group. Hie 
cabinet purge of the summer of 1979 was a 
direct response to the failure of this policy'.
Fallows wrote a disturbing editorial in 
last Wednesdays New York Times in which 
he likens Ronald Reagans call fora strong, 
independent cabinet to Jimmy Carters cry 
for Cabinet Government four years ago. If 
Reagan adopts this policy', trouble is sure to
Guest Columnist
follow. Fallows explains that Cabinet heads 
are inevitably partisans for their depart
ment. If, for example, the Secretary of
Bill
Kapner
Health and Human Services does not fight 
the Secretary of Defense over the proper div
ision of resources between guns and butter, 
he will have serious problems controlling 
his own department, whose members and 
clients will consider11 fr?nr?'^ 'Weakling. 
Indeed, different departments have conflict
ing interests and their own seperate consti
tuencies. There is no way department heads 
can work together in a decision making 
situation and come up with a consensus.
In the Cabinet purge of 79, which turned 
out to be one of the best administrative deci
sions Carter made, the President fired the 
most partisan department chiefs and 
replaced them with Carter loyalists. Now, 
according to Fallows, the President and 
Cabinet have a relationship like that of the 
solar system, with each department subject 
to a centrifugal force (the president) that 
threatens to send them spinning into 
space. Carter now employs means of keep
ing his Cabinet appointees within the solar 
system. One is the legislative calender, 
which informs department heads whether 
or not they can count on the Presidents 
lobbying support. Another is the weekly 
meeting in which the sole purpose is for the 
representatives of each department to dis
cuss their competing priorities.
This system appears to be working mod
erately well and should be adopted by the 
Reagan administration. Jack Watson, Car
ters current Chief of Staff, should warn die 
President-elect or his proxy, Ed Meese, of the 
perils of cabinet government. Carter 
received such advice in 1976 from pick Che
ney, Fords Chief of Staff, but unfortunately 
the wisdom fell on deaf ears.
I hope that this early sign of ignorance on 
Reagans part does not indicate an inability 
or unwillingness to leam from history. Fal
lows suggests that Carters limited vision of 
history' was a major cause of his failure as 
president. Like all new presidents Mr. Rea, 
gan will encounter many problems upon 
taking office; an unwillingness to learn 
from his predecessors mistakes can only 
make things more difficult.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in Profes
sional Writing and History.
Im tired of the financial aid rip-off
by Maureen Brennan 
Okay, Ill admit it. I was a spoiled brat. 
Confessions of a rich kid arent they all 
supposed to start that way? Sorry, but my 
line is different. And Im tired of apologiz
ing for it.
WTien someone discovers Im not on 
financial aid, and tums aside with the 
Hmph, or One of those people. my 
blood boils. Contrary to popular belief, we 
dont all belong tocountry clubs, own boats, 
summer homes and extravagent cars. And 
we dont all live in the suburbs.
For several weeks now Ive been reading 
articles about the new' laws governing aid, 
and how much effort CMU has been put
ting into securing money for its students; I 
appreciate the opportunity diis offers the 
majority of college students, but I am con
vinced that theres a whole category' of stu
dents like myself who are not eligible for any 
financial aid, and whose parents cannot 
afford the cost of a private university.
We are denied all aid outside of state guarenteed loans, a maximum of $7300 until 
this year, which in our case can only be 
obtained with the cosignature and credit rat
ing of a parent. There is no work study 
income, no National Direct Student Loan, 
no slate grants. Thus, we are not permitted 
to take advantage of the very money our
Furthermore, a percentage of every check we 
Arite to Camegie-Mellon goes to those stu
dents on aid.
Denying work study money not only puts 
ones chances of getting any job close to zero, 
it denies the student opportunities their 
peers obtain getting valuable work expe
rience with professors, in labs, or on spec ial 
projects in their field of study.
Sure, I can tell you the unsympathetic 
things you want to hear about someone in 
my position. W'hile I was growing up we 
did have a cleaning lady come in once a 
week. And we had a milkman and an 
eggman. We sent out 10 sets of sheets and 
pillowcases every week. You see, I grew up 
with 7 brothers and sisters.
Wre all went to Catholic high school. Five 
went to Catholic Universities. No, Ill never 
deny the advantages my parents were able to 
give us. But thats a lot of money theyve 
chosen to spend on education  a factor not 
considered on the FAF.
My pi rents are over 60, and as any selfemployed person will tell you, the pros|x*cts 
of retirement are not promising. The only 
pension for these people is what they can 
save. Which was subject to taxation every 
year until about 10 years ago.
Thus, we all worked hard. All eight of us 
had jobs throughout high school, buy ing or
all of our spending money. When someone 
scoffed a your fathers a doctor it was easy 
to point out that their father had a new car 
and yours drove a 5 year old station wagon. 
We never took family vacations, and until 
we could buy them, we didnt have our own 
bikes. I never felt particularly spoiled or 
deprived. It was just the way things were. If 
we wanted to go to college we were expected 
to work hard and save our money.
And thatt what I did, but it wasnt 
enough of course.
It was against my parents wishes that I 
enrolled at CMU; they preferred I attend a 
less expensive university where I wouldnt 
have to borrow so much money. But I 
refused to attend a school while students 
benefiting from my parents tax money' 
received financ ial aid at top notch universi
ties. If they deserved it then so did I.
Although Ive never regretted that deci
sion, to say it has made me bitter would be 
an understatement. I found a sec ond job the 
summer after high school graduation, 
hustled 50-60 hours a week, and in August 
wrote a check to CMU for the full amount of 
my first semester, most of what Id saved 
those* jxist 4 years.
The following summer I worked two jobs 
again, as well as all Chi istmas vacations and 
spring bleaks. And by sophomore year Id
my hard work, last year / paid taxes. Forty 
others on financial aid. Meanwhile theyre 
in Florida, at the Jersey Shore, working pari i 
time, buying designer clothes, picking out a || 
new stereo. Makes a lot of sense, doesnt it? 1 
Last summer I had the opportunity to g 
attend a summer studies program at Oxford  
University in England. I didnt have the m 
money, but by then Id learned my lesson. I 
borrowed the full amount and had otre of 
the most fantastic experiences of my life. 
Until a few weeks ago, I planned to graduate* 
next December beat use I simply didnt have | 
enough to get through 3 more semesters. I 
cant even take advantage of the extended 
$10,000 limit on state loans, because back in 
my conscientious days I didnt borrow the 
full $2500 each year. Its only thanks to the 
support of a great family with savings 
theyre willing to lend that Ill be able to do 
it.
To all administration, faculty, and (| 
friends whove heard my song and dance 
Ixfore, I thank you for your supjxMt. To 
those* of you who havent, Im just asking 
for a moment of thought. Next time you 
head for the second flcxr of Warner Hall to 
make a complaint, think about those* of us 
who cant even go tlieie for heip.
Maureen Brennan is a junior major in# i>1

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1980The TartanPage 3
Letters
A Misrepresentation 
Editor:
I would like you and others to know that 
the question of the status of Raymond W. 
Mall, Director of the Architecture Shop has 
been an item on the agenda of the Senior 
Faculty of the Department of Architecture 
for tw'O years and was a subject of discussion 
and concern among us long before that. 
Malis status was discussed with Mr. Louis 
Sauer as early as May 1979 when I met with 
Mr. Sauer immediately after he was 
appointed. Malis status was among the 
many items discussed between Mr. Sauer 
and the Senior Faculty at meetings during 
the 1979-80 academic year. During late May 
or June of 1980 I was one of a number (I 
dont know how many) of faculty and others 
interviewed by J. Kampert, an assistant to 
Mr. Sauer. The interview presumably was 
one required to ascertain opinions about 
Malis status. I reinforced the concern of the 
Senior Faculty at the interview and menti
oned its importance in the context of the 
history of Malis experience. I suspect that 
the report J. Kampert filed with her superior 
would record my interview and that of oth
ers. I dont know if the report was oral or 
written or if a record exists. Regardless, there 
have been numerous events that would have 
brought the question of Malis status to Mr. 
Sauers attention prior to August 1980.
Consequently, the letter to you from Mr. 
Sauer published in your 11 November 1980 
issue appears to be a misrepresentation, 
with respect to events surrounding Malls 
circumstance.
Delbert Highlands 
Professor of Architecture
Dont Play With Matches 
Editor:
As a new alumni of the Architecture 
department at CMU I had the opportunity 
to sit at a recent faculty meeting. I came 
away in outrage at the behavior of some of 
the faculty members who are supposedly 
acting objectively in the pursuit of knowl
edge. Most of the meeting was occupied 
with petty, leaderless bickering over th^1 
underlying antagonism felt by certain 
FACTIONS of the faculty. The resultant 
bad taste occuring in many mouths pro
duced countless toothless grins on the other
wise stem faces of those in attendance. It 
seems to this observer that this inchohesion 
is a result of an absence of understanding 
and, subsequently, lack of control of the 
current administration. It is leading to the 
rapid corruption and downfall of a once 
strongly meaningful educational expe
rience. Has Warner Hall adjusted its sun
shades so as to exclude the fine arts building 
from its view of the campus or are they 
playing with gasoline and matches in the 
basement again? There are no safeguards 
from the truth, for only within its warm 
reality does life acheive progress.
Name Witheld Upon Request
Yes, Virginia, there is a...
Editor:
I would like to commend you on your 
courage in printing the article entitled Is 
Rhythm Vatican Roulette? Censorship of 
highly sensitive issues is becoming preval
ent on this campus, and birth control is an 
issue that deserves a great deal more 
coverage.
I am a pregnancy/birth control counselor 
at a local clinic, and the majority of women 
that I see are 18 to 22 years old, either college 
students or employed. Most are either ignor
ant or sadly misinformed, and often it is too 
late for preventative information. There
fore, Id like to offer a slight correction to the 
impression given by your article.
Yes. Virginia, there is a rhvthm method. It
has a fancy name, and it requires a lot of 
work, keeping charts, taking your tempera
ture, etc., but it is a lot better than no birth 
control at all. The method is called the 
CM/BBT (cervical mucus/basal body 
temperature) method. It must be taught to a 
woman by an expert, and it requires a lot of 
work to maintain accurate records of 
monthly fertility cycles. However, in cases 
where it is not medically or morally feasible 
for a sexually active woman to choose a 
different form of birth control, this method 
is recommended.
If any readers are interested in learning 
more about CM BBT, they can contact the 
Contraceptive Care Clinic, of the Pittsburgh 
Free Clinic, at 661-5424.
If women would only realize how simple 
it is to become pregnant if they are not care
ful even one time, I think we would see birth 
control practiced more responsibly.
Thank you for the chance to spread a little 
information.
Erica Klein
Senior, Public Policy and Management 
Hail to the Chief
Editor:
This letter is to President Richard Cyert, 
CMUs public information coordinator and 
anyone else who is concerned about the 
image of the administration in the eyes of 
the students, their parents, and public.
It has almost been three weeks since the 
parents weekend for this years freshmen, 
and after much consideration, I have 
decided to lay it on the line:
Dr. Cyert, how did you ever become presi
dent of such a respected university if you are 
such a lousy public speaker?
Your address to students and parents that 
Saturday morning left me with serious 
doubts as to the competency of the persons 
who will ultimately determine the integrity 
of my education during the next 4 or 5 years.
Not only did you digress to trivial and 
irrevelant tangents lasting minutes at a time, 
but the majority of the topics you chose to 
discourse on were of essentially no value to 
the audience present. Do you think my 
father really cares about how' much energy 
you saved last year, what the monetary sav
ings were, the savings in comparison with 
the total bill and how this compares with 
the past eight years at Camegie-Mellon after 
driving seven hours the night before?
Although the savings you indicated came 
to about $75 per student,would it not be 
more advantageous to discourse on methods 
of making a true dent in the operating 
budget, such as cutting a few salaries (yours 
for example)?
Allow me to throw a statistic at you, Dr. 
Cyert. How about $9,315 per year? My father 
and I are currently up to our earlobes in debt 
so that I can hopefully afford what I thought 
was to be one of the finer educations 
available.
Please, Dr. Cyert, do not boast to us about 
your accesibility to students, as demon
strated through your one meal a month in 
the Skibo Cafeteria, while you and 400 other 
faculty members enjoy the other 89 meals in 
a private dining room, the whereabouts of 
which being unknown to the majority of the 
student body. (I hear it would make a terrific 
lecture hall). This is Americas intelligentsia 
you are dealing with. Tokenism will get you 
nowhere.
I was getting so bored just sitting there for 
45 minutes that I was tempted to rise and 
deliver a speech of my own. (I have several 
preparedif you ever need someone to 
cover a speaking engagement, just give me a 
call).
If it is constructive criticism you seek, I 
would suggest that you and Dean Kail 
switch positions (he appears to be disgust
ingly competent), but, God forbid, that 
would leave you personally responsible for 
my curriculum.
Understandably, Dr. Cvert. anvor
have a bad day. Were you hungover? Did 
you have to pull an all-nighter the night 
before to complete an administration 
report?
Although disappointed in your speaking 
ability, I have been assured by several fellow 
students that you are truly competent, intel
ligent and eloquent. But just in case, I leave 
you with one of the more well known Fun
damental Laws of Administrative Workings 
(F.L.A.W.) which reads-It is better to be 
thought a fool than to open your mouth and 
remove all doubt. Good luck.
Prematurely Disillusioned 
(Name withheld by request)
Lets Be Ambidextrous 
Editor:
In solving the problems of our civilization 
we must not assess the world from the 
Right, the Left or the Center; Mankind must 
take a deep look at itself and its situation 
from the viewpoint of reality. Reality is that 
totality fewri# tho&e we call World leaders 
have ever seen.
Political, military and economic oppres
sion must end. To bring an end to oppres
sion Mankind must unite, and from union 
he will gain strenth. Man has a cause to 
unite and must now find the will to unite. 
The deepest, darkest division we face is a 
spititual one; Man in his millenia-old argu
ment over who is God?, has caused more 
hell on Earth than one could expect to find 
in the company of the Devil. The other div
isions we face are those of race, politics, sex 
and wealth. Religious fanaticism, racial 
prejudice, political inflexibility, sexism and 
economic injustice are elements which lead 
to oppression and the ultimate destruction 
of any society which does not attempt to 
alleviate them.
America is a strong, free and humanitar
ian nation. America must assume the posi
tion of world leadership, not in an 
authoritative manner, but in cooperation 
with the rest of the free world. As humanit
arians it is our duty to assume world leader
ship and use it to the benefit of Mankind. 
The starving people of this world must be 
fed, the poor must be employed, the sick 
must be cured and the innocent must be 
protected. The major opponents of Mans 
peaceful co-existence with himself--the 
Soviet Union and the Peoples Republic of 
China--must be carefully neutralized and 
their intolerable governments eliminated.
The two major powers on Earth, one 
which exists through the oppression of 
Man, and the other through its elevation of 
Man, must resolve their differences through 
a mutual understanding or on the field of
battle. As long as sanity reigns in our 
government and in the government of the 
Soviet Union, we can be assured Armaged
don will be delayed. To promote harmony 
and a mutual understanding between the 
two super powers, the United States bowed 
to Soviet demands, ignored intolerable 
Soviet actions, and refused to take part in the 
world-wide conventional and nuclear buil
dup, while the Soviets chase themselves to 
that long sought communist goal of world 
superiority.
If the path to the continued survival of 
free men leads through war, let us take that 
path regardless of the sacrifice; we could of 
course follow the easier path, and encounter 
no opposition, but the easier path, what 
those weak at heart or lacking a sense of 
reality would call the moral path, leads 
downhill.
Michael James
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.
Students, faculty and administra
tors are invited to submit their views as a 
guest columnist on the op-ed page. 
Columns should be in clear, concise 
English and should be submitted on 2-3 
typed pages by the Thursday prior to 
publication.
Thelartan.
Editor-in-Chief.......................................Susan Borg
Managing Editor................................Doug Kiisop
Business Manager...........................Karen Stevens
News Editor........................................ Jim Balsom
Features Editor...........................Renee Rosenfeld
Entertainment Editor..............Richard Goielick
Sports Editor.......................................... Wes Seeley
Dossier Editor......................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editor........................Robert Zusman
Art Directors........................................... Craig Otto
Tom Weinkle
Production Manager.................................Bob Harr
Editorial Assistant................................Bob Leighty
Associate News Editor...................Jeanne Abmavr
Copyright c 1980 by The Tartan. The Kdiiorial 
Board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Funded in part by the Student Government of 
Camegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh. 
Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, 
(412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. ( 412)578- 
2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21 IS.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 18, 1980
DA
Lr<
NcE
your way to the Skibo Info Desk 
and get your ticket now, for an 
evening of dining, dancing, and 
fun. Only $8.00 per couple in
cludes dinner at 7:30 and dan
cing afterward.
SDC
WINTER SEMIFORMAL
Friday, Dec. 5, in the Ballroom Music by "ON BROADWAY"
Apartments closing
Security and maintenance problems plague Shirley
by Debbie Nir
Carnegie-Mellon University will be 
minus one on-campus apartment building 
next year when the five year lease to Shirley 
Apartments on North Dithridge Street 
expires at the end of this school year. The 
decision not to renew7 the lease was made for 
various reasons including distance from the 
school, improper maintenance, and a lack 
of proper security which prompted Gerald 
Dalton, Director of Housing to suggest to a 
concerned resident and her mother that they 
take it upon themselves to install a burglar 
alarm for their room.
According to Dalton, CMU had no inten
tion of using Shirley Apartments this year. 
We were trying to break the contract as of 
last year, but under a court order the com
pany which leases the building was forced to 
fix windows which were broken, so we had 
to use it.
Dalton alluded to Shirleys maintenance 
problems, stating, Shirley was originally 
leased out by Webster-Hayes but they sold 
the lease to the National Development Cor
poration. Their interest is in the luxury 
apartment building next door which is also 
theirs, not in Shirley Apartments. We have 
problems with them, problems keeping up 
the building. These problems include a 
lack of heat on the third iloor^no lights on 
the outside of the building, backed-up toilets,and a front door which doesnt completely 
dose when the temperature becomes cold.
According to school policy, when prob
lems develop, a form must be filed with 
maintenance. If there is no action within 
three days, Gerald Dalton must be contacted 
in order for him to act on the problem. Walt 
Young, coordinator and Resident Assistant 
at Shirley, stated that these forms were filed 
for some of these problems and Mr. Dalton
was contacted, but it has been anywhere 
form a month to six weeks and the problems 
still remain. One girl has been calling Dal
ton regularly, because she has no heat but 
nothing has been done yet, said Young.
Young added that the school has attemp
ted to solve these problems. Dalton has 
come by, along with Frank Mon tag, Direc
tor of Maintenance. Dalton has gotten us 
lounge furniture, SDC has just approved a 
television for us, the lines for computer ter
minals have been installed downstairs,and a 
hard copy terminal is on the way.
Side by side with the maintenance prob
lems at Shirley Apartments are the concerns 
over security, or in this case, lack of it. 
According to security reports, there were two 
robberies at Shirley Apartments in the 
beginning of the fall semester. A person 
gained access through a bathroom window 
and stole $215 worth of merchandise. The 
same day access was gained to another room 
by removal of a bedroom window on the 
North side of the building.
According to Young there were four illeagal entries this past fall, three in one day, 
and on the following night. The first entry 
occurred when a man entered through a 
living room window and a man from the 
Webster Hall building next door scared him 
away before the intruder had a chance to do 
anything serious. The next night someone 
entered through the bathroom window and 
opened the other windows. It wasnt just a 
lack of security on the part of C-MU though, 
because the building next door, a U. of Pitts
burgh dorm, was burglarized the same night 
also, Young added.
Recendy efforts have been made to beef 
up security, and impress on students the 
importance of locking doors and window.
continued on page 5
NEW STUDENT UNION ?
This is a preliminary survey being conducted by the new Student Union Committee of your 
Student Senate to explore the possibility of building a new Student Union. We would like 
your responses to these questions:
Do you feel that there is enough on-campus space for student activities? nYes toy1.
2!  What activities do you participate in and/or are you interested in (such as, movies, 
concerts, eating, lectures, student organizations, etc...)?----------------------------------------------
a What kinds of student space and/or activities space do you feel are needed (such as, an 
auditorium, game room, student organization offices, a rathskellar - type eating place, bowling 
alley, buggy shop, coffeehouse, etc. ...) ? -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Please send this survey via Campus Mail to the President of Student Government in Skibo, or drop 
it off at the Skibo Info Desk. Feel free to include any additional comments. If you have other ideas 
and/or would like to help with the committee-work, please include your name, address and phone 
number:

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1980The TartanPage 5
Fairless lectures center on govt and business
by Bob HanLast Tuesday, November 11, Fletcher L. 
Byrom and Douglas A. Fraser spoke in the 
iSkibo Ballroom at the Fairless Lectures.
Byrom is chairman of the Board of 
Kppers Companys, Inc., a trustee of Camegie-Mellon University, and a member of the 
citys Economic Development Commission.
Fairless is president of the United Auto
workers Union, and a member of the board 
of directors of Chrysler Corporation - the 
first labor representative to be on the board 
of a U.S. corporation.
The lecture consisted of a half hour 
speech given by each gendeman on the topic
Failing Industries: the role of government. 
The gentlemen then answered selected ques
tions submitted by the audience.
Both speakers agreed that the U.S. needs 
an industrial policy, which it presently 
lacks. We need something substantial in
stead of ad hoc measures in times of crisis as 
Byrom said.
Beyond that, both men disagreed. Fraser 
comments that our nationss problem is 
not failing industries. Rather, it is a failing 
economy. He is an advocate of the Demo
cratic partys view of government regulation 
to control business and protect workers. For 
instance, on the Chrysler loan he said, We
in the UAW, for example, fought for the 
Chrysler loan guarantee legislation not to 
bail out the Chrysler Corporation. We 
fought to save the jobs of the Chrysler work
ers and the jobs of thousands of workers in 
supplier companies that do business with 
Chrysler. He would like to see a strong U.S. 
economic policy that would insure jobs for 
Americans.
On the other hand, Byrom is in favor of 
reducing government regulations allowing 
industry to grow through free competition.
Not just competition between companies in 
the U.S., but competition with foreign com
panies as well. You dont have to hold a 
club over General Motors; was his com
ment, the Japanese do it for us. He fol
lows the Republican partys view of less gov
ernment controls, less government regula
tions, less government paperwork, and less 
government in industry. And specifically, 
he did not approve of the Chrysler bail
out. Chrysler failed just like a whole list of 
earlier U.S. auto manufacturers.
Apartment security questioned
continued from page 4 
Charles Westerooks, Director of Security, 
recently visited Shirley to show students 
how to lock windows and mark their valua
bles. The escort service will also include the 
Shirley apartments.
This lack of security and poor mainte
nance was brought to the attention of the 
Tartan largely due to the problems of two 
students, Lisa Wei, a junior Psychology 
major,and Maria Llach, a freshman Art 
major. In the beginning of the year the two 
girls were assigned to temporary housing in 
Morewood Gardens and later on assigened 
to permanent housing in Shirley 
Apartments.
When Lisa and Maria finally moved into 
the Shirley Apartments they soon discovered 
from those around them that their room had 
previously been illegally entered. On their 
own intitiative, Lisa went to speak to Dean 
Swank about the situation while Maria and 
her mother went to discuss the matter with 
Geral d Dalton. According to Maria, Dalton 
explained that the school couldnt do any
thing. Maria suggested bars on the windows 
but Dalton explained that if she wanted any
thing done she would have to deal with the 
company who owned the lease, and the 
company would not do it.
TartanElections
Thursday December 11
All editorial positions 
will be available to full
time CMU students.
Dalton later added, Robberies are not 
something new. Shirley Apartments are not 
less safe than any of the other dorms. One 
robbery does not mean we should change 
policies. As far as bars on the windows are 
concerned, I could contact the owner erf the 
building and try to convince them but I 
doubt I would be able to. Then you must 
find a contractor and it would probably be 
two months before being able to accompish 
everything.
Since this article has been written, Dalton 
did offer suggestions to Maria and her 
mother including the installation of alarms, 
and the blocking of windows.
OPPOR
WANTED:TUNITY
Tartan business manager;
non-paying position
QUALIFICATIONS:Knowledge of:
Bookkeeping
Budget formulation
Advertising
(AMS major preferred; but not
necessary)
Willingness to spend 15+ hours a
week
Organized
TRAINING PERIOD:Nov. 24Dec 10
TERM TO RUN:Jan 1981Jan 1982
(possibilities exist for second term)
If interested, call Karen Stevens at 578-2112 or 621-3984 (evenings)
tech flying club
Discover flying with the Tech 
Flying Club on Wednesday, 
November 19 at 8:30 PM in Skibo 
Room 33. Films will be shown and 
everyone is welcome.
PERSPECTIVES
PERSPECTIVESL
'Architectural Signing and Graphics'
John Follis is a graphic designer, interior designer, author, and teacher. He received his design education 
at the Art Center School in Los Angeles and started his own firm in that city in 1960. John Follis and 
Associates has handled a wide variety of design problems including the planning and design of the U.S. 
exhibit for the New York World's Fair. In 1979 Follis co-authored a book entitled Architectural Signing and 
Graphics, a subject of personal interest and the major focus of his office. He has won awards for design 
excellence from the AIGA, The New York Art Director's Club, and Top Symbols and Trademarks of the 
World. Milano, Italy.PERSPECTIVES
THE DESIGN DEPARTMENT LECTURE SERIES
JOHN FOLLIS-------------
TONIGHT 8:00/SCH 7500

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 18, 1980
* x
Student Senate Election
CIT candidates below; others presented on adjacent page
LYNN YANYO
Undergraduate
I am currently in Chemical Engineering. 
In my past term on Senate I have been a 
member of the Finance Committee and vice
chairperson of the Academic Affairs com
mittee. This fall Academic .Affairs has been 
organizing student advisory councils (SACs) 
in each department with the goal of develop
ing an inter-university SAC. This commit
tee has also been active in insuring that the 
voice of the students is heard in the Architec
ture Department. I would like to continue 
tire work that has been started. All I need is 
your vote.
ERIC A. MOORE
Undergrad ua te 
I plan to promote a more rational and 
active role for Senate on campus.
CHRIS TSCHAPPATT
Undergradua te
I have had a great deal of experience in 
high school student government, which I 
feel makes me a good choice as a representa
tive to the undergraduate students of CIT. 
My preparation includes training from the 
Ohio Association of Student Councils lead
ership workshop, serving as treasurer and 
parlimentarian of my high school student 
senate, representing my former senate as a 
delegate to two state conventions, and serv 
ing as an officer to three other organizations. 
If elected I intend to represent the students of 
CUT to the best of my ability, using an open 
ear and an open mind.
ROBERT HOLSTE
Undergraduate
Six weeks ago I was chosen to fill a 
vacancy in Senate over three other appli
cants. Since that time I have worked hard to 
represent you. Hard work that has paid off 
for you with my election as Vice Chairman 
of the Rules Committee, after only three 
weeks on Senate.
In this capacity I helped draft the new 
election procedures which will help to make J 
elections fairer and more tamper-proof than 
they have been in the past.
Before I came to CMU I worked for a year 
and a half as a Page in the U.S. House of 
Representatives. I his experience has given 
me valuable insights into the workings of all 
legislative bodies. Insights which have paid 
off for you by giving you a strong, effective 
voice on Senate.
By voting for me youll be helping your
self by electing someone with the experience 
to strongly represent your views in Senate.
I take this position seriously, and would 
greatly appreciate the opportunity to serve 
you in another term.
I ;
ALEXANDRA KAVOULAKIS 
Undergraduate
As a CIT representative to the Senate, I 
will put forth a concerted effort to best 
represent the students in my college, as well 
as the entire student body. One way that I 
feel this could be accomplished is by assur
ing that the student activities fee should Th1 
used in a way that is beneficial to the major
ity of the students.
By running for Senate, 1 hojx* to accomp
lish two major goals. The first is to play ail 
ac tive role in student affairs. The other is to 
offer the CIT students a chance to elect 
someone w illing to attend the Senate nut t
ings and to s|x nd the necessary amount <>l 
time* to projxily represent them.
DAVE OSHLOG
Undergraduate
Have you ever wanted to become involved 
in an organization because you felt that you 
could add to it as a member? Senate needs 
people who are willing to devote their time 
so that its business runs smoothly. Being a 
sophomore chemical engineering student 
who is truly interested in participating on 
Senate, I believe I am qualified to help move 
things forward. Its time for a step in the 
right direction.
MARK J. FISHER
Undergraduate
Many people on this campus do not 
know that Student Senate controls funding 
to all organizations funded by the activities 
fee. Tire acitvities fee has increased, and 
activities have improved; however, I feel that 
there is a great deal more which can be 
accomplished with that money. Funding 
decisions should be made with the benefit of 
the student body in mind, not necessarily the 
benefit of the individual members of Stu
dent Senate.
There are some other problems on this 
campus which require conscientious atten
tion. Food Service operates under rigid 
hours, which conflicted with many stu
dents schedules, until some well-spoken 
words landed in Ken Stovers ear. There is a 
great deal of vandalism which requires mea
sures to help prevent it. The administration 
is quite upset about the recent acts of vio
lence near the campus; however, there are 
still spots on campus which are likely spots 
for such acts to take place due to lack of 
adequate lighting, notably in the section of 
the cut between Science Hall and Baker 
Hall. Additionally, as evidenced by the 
recent power outage, there is a severe need 
for emergency lighting in Morewood and 
the* fraternities. This is very dangerous, and 
must be* changed.
As a.Student Senator, I will act, to the1 
fulle st extent of my powers, to remedy these 
problems, and any other problem pertaining to student needs that may arise.
NINA HOUSKA
Undergraduate
I have been a member erf Student Senate 
since my first semester freshman year. Dur
ing my first term, I became first Vice-Chair 
then Chairperson of General Campus and 
Information Committee.
The position of Vice-Chairperson of Stu
dent Senate followed that and involved deal
ing with everything from the food service 
problems of last spring to helping form a 
commuter organization.
Recently, as the Chairperson of the Stu
dent Senates Constitutional Revision Com
mittee, I have seen that needed reforms are 
made. These include changes in the election 
procedure, defining the duties of the presi
dent, impeachment procedure, Senate 
representation, and the running of the 
elections.
I would like to continue serving my con
stituents in CIT to the best of my ability.
LAURIE ELM
Undergraduate
I, Laurie Elm, am running for re-election 
as a CIT representative. During the past 
year, I have been chairperson of the General 
Campus and Information committee. A 
record voter turnout last March made the 
committees election promotion efforts 
worthwhile. I am presently ViceChairperson of Student Senate. This fall, I 
led a fervent campus voter registration cam
paign and now serve on the Student Govern
ment Constitution Revision committee.
Your concerns are my concerns. Let me 
continue to represent the CIT populus, 
promoting interaction among the colleges. 
Unity establishes power; power facilitates 
action, the ability to change things. Do you 
want to be part of a real college campus or 
do you prefer to present profit-oriented busi
ness enterprise in which we are the marketa
ble commodity? Its your choice. I hope you 
make the right one on November 19 or 20. 
Vote for me, not because Im there, but 
because I care.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1980The TartanPage 7
To this end I was appointed to the vital 
Finance committee where I am the Vice 
Chairman. During the last month, however, 
I have been serving as Acting-Chairman 
where I preside over a budget of $250,000.
This money is used to fund student activi
ties all over campus, and distributing it has 
given me a great insight into how Senate 
works.
But serving on the Finance committee 
isnt the only thing Ive done. I helped to 
push through the letter to Lou Sauer from 
Senate that helped get the administration 
moving on the problems in the Architecture 
department.
By re-electing me youll be helping your
self by keeping control of the Finance com
mittee in CFA. With another term Ill be 
able to do even more to help you in the 
future, and I would sincerely appreciate the 
opportunity to do so.
H&SS
LANE BESS 
Undergraduate
What do you think of when somebody 
says Skibo?...Frat parties?...The com
puter center? You get definite impressions, 
I bet. How about when somebody says Stu
dent Senate? Did that one take a little 
longer?
My name is Lane Bess and if Im elected to 
Senate, this is just what Id like to change. 
Students need to be informed of what their 
government is doing; most of all the stu
dents must have a direct line of communica
tion with their government. Student Senate
SUPA
DAVE KRAYBILL 
Undergraduate
Hi! My name is Dave Kraybill and Im 
running to occupy the vacant HfcSS Senate 
seat. Although Im a junior majoring in 
economics, my face should be new to most 
of you because I transfered to CMU this fall. 
Perhaps my newness to CMU makes you 
apprehensive. It shouldnt; I have expe
rience that can be readily applied to repres
ent you, the H&SS constituency.
GSIA
Graduate
This years SUPA class is larger than ever 
before. With more students, the school 
should be prepared to assume an expanded 
role in the University community. As 
SUPAs student government representative, 
I will take an active part in sharing the 
special talents of our schools students with 
the rest of CMU.
ELLEN LANAGNA 
Graduate
GSIA is too important an entity of 
Camegie-Mellon to be not represented on 
Student Senate. Plus, the fledgling GSO 
needs support to succeed in its mission. By 
my being in this position, I feel I can be of 
great service to my school.
Over the past year, I was an R.A., a 
teacher, and a counselor at a private secon
dary school. This was a volunteer position 
a job I undertook because I feel it is 
important to give of ourselves and not just 
irr our spare time. Ive experienced dorm life1, 
but I am also familiar with some of the inner 
workings of an academic institution-an 
institution with which we must relate to 
change the system to our advantage. Since 
my arrival at CMU, Ive made a real effort to 
understand the workings of Senate. Ive been 
in regular attendance at .Senate meetings as 
an observer and Ive talked to .Senators to 
understand what a job as Senator requires. 
As I see it there are three major issues before 
Student Senate: the creation of a real student 
union, the successful integration of gradu
ate students into Student Senate, and STU
DENT APATHY.
As you can see, Im not running for Stu
dent Senate blindly, Im prepared for the 
office, and willing to give my time. Elect me, 
Dave Kraybill, your H&SS Senator.
VOTE
Tomorroiv and Thursday are the Student 
Senate elections. Polls will be located in the 
Skibo lobby, near the grey matter. Students 
may vote from 9KX) a.m. to 9.-00 p.m. with a 
i'alid CMU ID.
This year, for the first time, undergradu
ates will wte for undergraduate candidates 
only and graduate students will i>ote for 
graduate candidates only.
In CIT, H&SS, MCS, and CFA there will 
be no graduate student candidates on the 
ballot for those Senate seats.
The following candidates did not submit 
a statement or photograph to The Tartan 
for publication:
Patricia Prim (CIT)
Bob Carr (GSIA)
MCS
KIM AMES 
Undergraduate
I am a senator up for re-election from the 
Mellon College of Science. I have been on 
Senate and served as chairperson
for the last term. As a senator I have tried to 
represent my constituency fairly while work
ing to resolve problems with the administra
tion and faculty. As chairperson, I have tried 
to assure that the meetings run smoothly 
and have contributed time for the various 
duties that go with my position.
I would like to keep serving as an MCS 
senator and am always open to complaints 
and criticisms from the campus.
JODY J. DANIELS
Undergraduate
I am a sophomore Math/ Computer 
Science major, Im running for Student 
Senate so that I can actively participate in 
the governing of CMU. I want to have a 
voice in dealing with such matters as alloca
tion of the students money, security and 
safety in the dorms and academic buildings, 
and dealing with the concept of a student 
union. From the experience standpoint, I 
am qualified, having served on my high 
school senate and as high student govern
ment treasurer. Im eager to represent the 
students and deal with all matters effectively.
RICH HANUSEK 
Undergraduate
Since my election as a Senator from CFA 
for a half term last spring I have worked 
hard to represent the wishes of my constitu
ents and provide them with a strong and 
e ffe*c tive voice* on Senate.
is for you, and in order for you as a student to 
have a voice you nee*d a representative who 
will get involved, and in turn voice your 
views in Senate.
Flfct me to represent you! H&SSers, you 
will know I am there.
LEIGH RITTER
Undergrad ua te
I want to occupy a seat in Student Senate 
because CFA needs more adequate represen
tation and recognition. CFA needs to be 
recognized as its own college, but equally as 
important, to be accepted as a part of the 
university as a whole. Im not involved with 
any odier organizations on campus so my 
involvement with Se*nate will be genuine 
and committed.
BRUCE EISENBERG 
Undergraduate
Being that I already am on Student 
Senate, I have experienced the organization 
first-hand. I have witnessed tire importance
of Senate to tire campus community, and I 
want to help maintain and improve upoa 
the activities currently available. Becoming 
re-elected will enable me to do this.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 18, 1980
STEREOPHONIOSOUND
The ultimate in sight and sound
with Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Orchestra 
TOCCATA & FUGUE IN D MINOR THE NUTCRACKER SUITE
JoHann Sebastian Bach s' Pk>r Ihch Tchaikovsky
RITE OF SPRING 
feor Stravinsky
NIGHT ON BALD MOUNTAIN
Nodnle Mou**org*kv
THE PASTORAL SYMPHONY
Ludwig van Beethoven
THE SORCERERS APPRENTICE
Igor Stravinsky
AVE MARIA
Franz Schubert
i track |>M available on ViM* Record*
Fr iidi ay,De D6Tnaurtuh co c.
NOW PRESENTED IN
MOW SHOWING!
CALL THEATRES FOR SHOWTIMES
Successful Careersnrtn\mhDon't Just Happen
At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared 
over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and. 
finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will 
place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers 
professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As 
a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by 
attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, 
banks, government agencies and insurance companies. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master 
of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all 
course work completed at The Institute.
We are regarded as the nations finest and most prestig
ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, 
business and finance. But, as important as our academic 
quality is our placement result. The Institutes placement 
service will find you a job in the city of your choice. If not, you will 
be eligible for a substantial tuition refund.
If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking 
for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your 
Placement Office for an interview with our representative.
We will visit your campus on:
TheInstituteforParalegalTraining
235 South 17th Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600
(Operated by Para-Legal. Inc )
Approved by The American Bar Association 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law.
Quantitative comparisons dominate Nader/Adleson debate
continued from page 1
the guest of honor at an Eagle scout dinner 
tonight.
Nader, a graduate of Princeton and Har
vard Law, spoke about the potential for con
servation. The trouble with people who 
favor nuclear power or other exotic sources 
of energy is that they dont give a quantita
tive significance to conservation. The wellknown lobbyist and consumer activist said 
that conservation is as significant as produc
tion. A barrel of oil we dont have to waste is 
a barrel we dont have to produce, or import.
The U.S. wastes more energy per capita 
than any other society in the world, save 
Canada, and as Nader put it,...its almost 
like a tourist attraction.
According to studies made by Berkley, 
MIT, IBM, and DuPont, at least 50% of our
energy is wasted in the U.S., stated Nader. In 
Illinois, homes are being built now with 
50% reductions in the use of energy. If we 
can double the size of our economy in the 
next 25 years and not consume any more 
energy than were consuming now, then 
that gives us a lot of time to begin transform
ing our energy base to a solar powered 
economy.
How fast? Solar energy has been around 
for 2500 years, and according to Nader pas
sive solar in building practices is the grea
test, most immediate form of energy 
efficiency that we can apply. Since we are 
expected to turn over our building stock sub
stantially in the next 30 or 40 years, then 
passive solar should be effective.
Nader concluded his opening statements 
by commenting on OPECs influence on oil
prices. We dont have an energy' crisis in 
our country,said Nader, we have an 
energy monopoly crisis.
Questions from the audience followed 
and lasted for over an hour. It takes 10 years 
for nuclear power plants to get underway: 
when asked about the time factor for solar 
power, if indeed solar power were to replace 
nuclear power, Nader responded, the most 
immediate approach to our energy prob
lems is energy conservation.
Adleson was asked whether she felt it was 
necessary that a government ceiling on risk 
ibe placed on nuclear power plants in the 
form of the Price Anderson Act.
The Price Anderson Act is a $560 million 
no fault guarantee insurance policy for indi
viduals who suffer any losses as a result of 
accidents at a nuclear power plant.
Adleson felt that some protection would 
be necessary' for the public against acci
dents in any large scale industry.
Nader countered that no other industry 
has this protection from risk. He con
tinued, saying that General Electric asked 
to get out of Nuclear Power. It was the 
Department of Energy that said dont 
it would cause a domino effect....If it wasnt 
for the government subsidizing the nuclear 
industry, there wouldnt be a nuclear 
industry.
Another question raised was directed to 
Nader: We now have some 135 nuclear 
ships....the total man years of operation of 
nuclear power ships in the navy is 1300 years 
without a nuclear accident....are you ready 
to dismantle the United States Navy nuclear 
operations?
Nader said that a nuclear reactor in a 
submarine is less than 3% the size of nuclear 
reactors being built around the country'. 
Also, the navy has strict maintenance proce
Keep
Red
Cross
Ready
KAREN ADLESON
dures. Thus, he would not stop the use of 
nuclear subs.
In conclusion Adleson and Nader restated 
their views, and the proceedings were closed. 
The debate was lively and the CMU com
munity showed its interest not only by over
whelmingly attending but also by asking 
many thought-provoking questions.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Arquitectnica: trying to develop a modem vernacular
by Melody Mazzie
Imagine a pink, rectangular building that 
looks somewhat like a warehouse -- flat 
roofed and containing many small win
dows. Facing the bay in bold audacity, this 
unusual four-level creation dares to defy 
basic tenets of Modem Architecture. One 
would never guess by looking at it that this 
palm-bedecked structure with the long, 
canal-like swimming pool in the center, was 
a house. The ceilings are unusually high, 
and all the rooms of the house are connected 
by a single, narrow hallway.
I his architectural wonder originated 
with Arquitectnica -- a Miami based archi
tectural firm that is flourishing with innova
tive ideas.
Bernardo Fort-Brescia, in a lecture held 
last Wednesday night, explained the con
cepts behind Arquitectnica toa full house 
of students and faculty in Science Hall. The
lecture was die third in a series which 
emphasizes drawing.
Fort-Brescia is a nadve of Peru. He was 
educated in Peru and Europe, attended Prin
ceton, and earned his Masters at Harvard. As 
one of the founders of Arquitectnica, FortBrescia explained that the firm links bot
tom line concerns with concerns for the fine 
art of drawing. Working exclusively for 
commercial and residential developers, the 
firm ignores the human scale and instead 
scales buildings in accordance to how they 
are seen.
Arquitec tnica rejects the second tenet of 
Modem Architecture, said Fort-Brescia in 
reference to the notion of ambiguity, (i.e. 
there are two different ways of looking at a 
building). Their buildings only mean one 
thing. According to Fort-Brescia, they are 
designed for the benefit and understanding 
of the general population, the layman, and
strive for general purity of form by avoiding 
applied decoration. This philosophy is 
maintained for three reasons. First, decora
tion is unnecessary; second, modem crafts
manship cannot be compared to that of 
other periods. Imitation, remarked FortBrescia, will look cheap and poorly done in 
comparison with old architecture. The 
third reason is due to the fact that Miami is a 
suburban city with space between the 
buildings. All of the architecture is post
modern.
Fort-Brescia describes a formal moder
nism in our work which is achieved by 
clashing parts of different periods of Mod
em Architecture and by trying to develop a 
modem vernacular. Arquitectonicas theory' 
is to always have in mind the notion of 
being there, - a theory' Fort-Brescia links 
with hedonism. The poetic aspect, he feels, 
should be preserved.
Arquitectnica has designed fourteen 
major buildings which are currently under 
construction. Fort-Brescia showed slides of 
various drawings and models done by the 
firm for apartment buildings and houses. 
The Palace apartment building, built for 
the owner of the Empire State Building, is 
the tallest in Miami. It holds 255 apart
ments, plus a six-bedroom, million dollar 
penthouse with private elevator -- all of 
which sold within a week. The complex is 
actually composed of two buildings inter
secting, with a swimming pool on the roof 
of the smaller one which extends across the 
entire width.
The work of Arquitectnica has sparked 
much controversy. Whether one approves or 
disapproves of its philosophy, the fact 
remains that it is a booming firm.
Ralph Nader: A look at the future of public interest
by Renee Rosenfeld
The Chevrolet Corvair, a name out of 
history. Perhaps the Corvair provides a his
torical note more significant than most real
ize. Late in 1965, the publication of Ralph 
Naders legendary' Unsafe at any Speed 
carved a new notch into the bedpost of the 
American political system, that of consumer 
advocacy. Naders Corvair case against Gen
eral Motors lead to the infamous team of 
advocates referred to as Naders Raiders. 
Now 15 years later, Naders original mission 
to protect the American consumer interests 
has blossomed into an intricate organiza
tion consisting of sub-groups and satellites 
maintained by several hundred thousand 
people, many of whom are volunteers
In addition to Naders contribution to the 
growth of the Public Interest Movement, 
other groups have sprouted and matured
 into a force that attempts to make the politi
cal process and its implications responsive 
to Americas largest constituency: the pub
lic. During the past decade, advocacy 
organizations commonly known as public 
interest groups have become increasingly 
prominent in American society and politics. 
These groups are not a new form of political 
organization; they have existed far back 
into our history. There does, however, seem 
to be a new awareness of the activities of 
public interest groups. Through the lobby
ing efforts and accompanying publicity 
generated-by Ralph Nader and organiza
tions such as Common Cause and the Sierra 
Club, a greater recognition of the work of 
these groups lias emerged. There is little 
question that in recent years public interest 
groups have gained a growing acceptance as 
legitimate representatives of significant con
stituencies or interest within the polity. 
(J.M. Berry, Lobbying for the People). Pub
lic interest groups such as Naders have 
initiated reforms ranging from auto safety 
^standards to gun control to deregulation of 
the trucking industry. Efforts have 
expanded from Congressional lobbying to 
Courtroom litigation.
While the realm of public interest is gen
erally regarded as non-partisan, its activities 
have been able to flourish under Democratic 
dominance in Congress. Now with a rejec
tion of Democratic liberalism for Republi
can conservatism, what does the future hold 
for the interest of the public? Nader sees a 
future of courtroom battles and more grass
-roots organization. I think that die new 
regime, the Reagan regime, is going to crip
ple the health and safety enforcement agen
cies; EPA, FDA, the Auto Safety Agency, so 
that there will be more resort to the courts, 
he claims.
Although national opinion polls show
strong support for efforts like clean air and 
governmental accountability, Nader expects 
the Reagan administration to have a nega
tive effect on public interest efforts. I think 
for example it is going to be very difficult to 
get good legislation through Congress 
now, explains Nader. This difficulty he 
finds as a result of large sums of money 
being poured into campaigns which in turn 
causes those elected to be responsible to their 
contributors.
Over the past five years, the spread of 
Political Action Committees (PACs) have 
become a counter force to the public interest 
movement. These PACs are mostly repres
enting special business interests. A Political 
Action Committees major objective is to 
elect candidates to Congress through contri
butions to campaigns in order to accumu
late votes in Congress that will support their 
interests. The Obey-Railsback bill, currently 
before the Senate, is an effort to limit PAC 
influence in Congress by requiring that 
PAC campaign contributions not exceed 
$1,000 to any candidate. According to 
Nader, This will probably be the last time 
that Congress can internally limit those Pol
itical Action Committees because in every 
election, more and more beneficiaries of 
these Political Action Committees get 
elected and they are not about to cut the basis 
of their own support. The Railsback bill has 
passed the House and is languishing in the 
Senate; the chances are very slim that it is 
going to go through the lameduck session 
that just got under way. That will be the 
end. The next reform will have to be a very 
fundamental external one, where the issue 
of money in politics becomes a basic theme 
of the challangers who run for Congress to 
oust the incumbents. About 2000 Political 
Action Committees are growing by leaps 
and bounds, most of them from the business 
community, and Congressional campaigns 
are coming in with million-dollar budgets, 
just fora seat in the House which is, I think, 
quite unprecedented. Nader further 
believes that the problem of campaign 
contributions may require a Constitutional 
Amendment.
Naders organization has expanded to 
include considerable student involvement. 
Local organizations called Public Interest 
Research Groups (PIRG) have evolved on 
more than 200 college campuses. Nader 
finds that there is more political activity on 
college campuses than in the late 1960s. He 
regards this activity as less demonstrative, 
however. He cites one reason for this 
increase as the ability for students to develop 
their community into an organization that 
is independant of the university. Nader 
explains that gaining control over student
funds is the major obstacle preventing stu
dents from organizing. So the real ques
tion, asserts Nader, is to what degree are 
students going to be free to mobilize them
selves, to use their own money, to develop 
convenient check-off systems.
Nader sees great legitimacy in students 
building their own national political party. 
He identifies students as having a unique 
communication link within one another as
well as the work force to make a significant 
difference. According to Naders calcula
tions, Even if they (students) just get six or 
seven million votes to begin with, thats 
good leverage and good barganning power. 
(Students) can condition and shift the spec
trum of politics significantly in the United 
States if they do that. Then, eventually, they 
can move in and start a new political 
generation.

---------------------------------------------------

Come party at Rock N Roll Night 
on Friday, November 21st in the 
Common Grounds, Morewood 
Gardens. From 9 PM on, rock to 
the beat of Le Slick and special 
guest The Verge. CMU students 
and their guests only will be 
admitted. IDs are required.
Dont miss it!
R<xk eNNh1 Roll Night is piwnutl l>> Martini Corp., AB Datier, Rrskkuic* Life, atwl SIX; Piogi ainmmg.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Death of A Salesman should have rested
by Richard Gorelick
Death Of A Salesman has been one of the 
most frequently produced plays in the last 
thirty years. And with good reason-it is an 
excellent play; brilliantly constructed, 
thoughtfully written, it has seta standard for 
modem American theater.
Still, there are some times in our history 
that are more appropriate than others for 
reviving any play, and this is definately not 
the time for another revival of Death of A 
Salesman.
Our country is in the midst of, as Jimmy 
Carter put it a national malaise. Everyday 
we are forced to question our values and face 
the truth--the American Dream has become 
a never ending nightmare. Like Willy 
Loman, not only are we not well liked, we 
are not even liked--by Iran, OPEC, Cuba, 
France, and so on, and so on.
We have known for a long time that our 
cities are getting more crowded and that the 
open unsettled terrain that challenged our 
very existence has gotten smaller and 
smaller. Most every American and America 
itself is thrust into a daily stuggle just to 
make ends meet.
In such a pessimistic, depressing time, the 
prospect of seeing a play that, in scene after 
scene, carps about Americas malaise in a 
pessimistic, depressing way, is not exactly 
invhing.Death of A Salesman is a depress
ing play, something you may have missed 
when you read it in high school. The ulti
mate feeling that we are left with is not one 
of catharsis--our fears are not released, they 
are suppressed-we are left instead with a 
feeling of hopelessness and despair.
We do not necessarily have to resort to 
total escapism, like Star Wars or rags to 
riches, happy ending success stories, like 
Rocky, but Death of A Salesman is at the 
other extreme--we should not have to be 
subjected to the depression of plays like this 
either.
Pittsburgh Public Theaters verison of 
Death is a commendable one, and if this 
play had to be done, it might as well be done 
right. If you can separate yourself from the 
sorrowful message of Death Of A Salesman, 
you will see what a truly amazing piece of
theater Arthur Miller has created.
Wrilly Lomans younger days are revealed 
in flashback after breathtaking flashback, 
and in each one, an additional aspect of 
Willys character is revealed. These scenes 
were revolutionary when they were first 
seen, and they are still brilliant now. This is 
due in part to Arthur Miller, who with this 
one play, established himself as a major 
American playwright; in part to Ben Shaktmans no-nonsense direction, which takes 
the audience back and forth over thirty years 
with the blink of an eye, and in part to the 
actors who age and regress right before our 
eyes.
While John Carpenters Willy Loman 
might have been somewhat too feeble at 
times as the present Willy Loman, his 
younger Willy is bigger than life. He is full 
of the hope and expectation that character
ized America after World War II. John Car
penter is a splendid, touching Willy.
Dorothy Stinnette is Linda, and she stops 
the show when she orders her two bums 
of children out of her house after they desert 
Willy in a restaurant. Hers is the central 
character, the one we ultimately look to for 
reaction. Without Miss Stinnettes convinc
ing love for Willy, in spite of his deteriora
tion, we could not love or care for Willy 
either.
A similar role is played by George Vogel 
as the neighbor, Charley. Vogel is the type of 
actor that, in a supporting role, simply 
creates a real, recognizable character and 
consequently lends an aura of credibility to 
an entire production.
There is not a weak link in the entire 
company, which includes CMU professor 
Gregory Lehane as Charleys bookish son, 
Bernard and Tama Bodenrader, a CMU 
drama department graduate.
Peter Wexler, who designed PPTs uni
que theater space at Allegheny Center, has 
designed the set for Death Of A Salesman. 
Like most erf PPTs sets, this one is sparse, 
but appropriate. Wexler has installed four 
hulking fire escape units over each comer of 
the stage that are retracted out of sight just 
before each act. They are obviously intended 
to give the sense of the Lomans loss of
David Stocker and Janies Hunt, Biff and Happy in Death of A Salesman
space, but this feeling comes through in 
Millers dialogue.
David Tosers costumes are serviceable, 
though at times silly. Biffs costume as a 
young man is especially silly, and I have to 
question the choice (assuming it was a cho
ice) of putting Linda in wrinkled dresses.
Death Of A Salesman runs at the Allegh
eny Center on the North Side until Decemeber 21. This is the second production of 
the season for PPT. Allegheny Center is very 
accessible by bus, and PPT is very hospita
ble to Pittsburghs student population. For 
ticket information, call 323-1900; ask about 
student prices and student rush tickets.
PPT does things with such class, its a 
shame they couldnt have put off Death Of A 
Salesman for a more appropriate time. Still, 
if you have never seen a professional produc
tion of this classic play, try to make plans to 
see this one-only take along some extra 
money for a few after theater drinks-youll 
need them.
Comedy tomorrow, comedy tonight:
The best theater in Pittsburgh is probably 
right on the CMU campus. This familiar 
publicity phrase is probably more accurate 
than ever as the Drama Department of 
Camegie-Mellon University gears up for the 
opening of its first two mainstage plays. The 
Country Wife by William Wycherly and 
The Suicide by Nikolai Erdman will be 
presented in rotating repertory from 
November 19 through December 13 in the 
Kresge Theater.
The Suicide
The Suicide right now is one of the most 
widely produced plays in the country'. There 
is a version on Broadway starring Derek 
Jacobi, PBSs Hamlet, a production at Yale 
Repertory' Theater and one at the Arena 
Stage in Washington.
The Suicide was written by the late Rus
sian playwright, Nikolai Erdman, but the 
play has never been produced in the Sov iet 
Union. In the play, a satire, a mans 
rumored suicide brings him scores of people 
with causes for him to die for. The version 
that Camegie-Mellon will see will be consid
erably different from others around the 
c ountry. Ihe sc ript is being levised by CMU 
graduate playwright. Bob Henry, anddevelojxtl by co-directors Mel Shapiro, the head 
of the* Drama De]xtrtmeni ami Nora Dunfee, 
a noted Broadway ae tirss.
CM I "s |uoduc tion erf 77/^ Suicide is gath
ering interest not only from Pittsburgh's
theatrical community, but also from across 
the country'.
The suicide stars Jeff Laite, Mary' Jane 
Lewis, Pamela Putch, Jordan Thaler and 
Gail Joel Grate.
The Suicide opens this Thursday nigh' 
and will run on Tuesdays, Thursdays and 
Saturdays through December 13.
The Country Wife
One of the English Theaters first and 
funniest restoration comedies, The Country 
Wife is the story of Homer, a robust city 
gallant, who poses as a eunuch so he will be 
trusted alone with honorable married 
women. The primary objects of Homers 
cuckolding are Pichwife, a man completely 
obsessed with his wifes fidelity, and Sir 
Jasper Fidget, a business minded lord who 
practically throws his wife into bed with 
Homer.
Pichwife marries a country' wench, the 
title character, in the hope that she will be 
less desirable to city men. The play is full of 
sexual overtones, mistaken indentities and 
ribald charac ters-it includes an infamous 
china scene that was banned on the Eng
lish stage for many years.
Ridiculous director to direct
Drama Department head, Mel Shapiro 
has ini|x>rted yet another respected member 
erf the professional theater community to 
direct The Country Wife. He is Charles 
Ludlam, the founder and director of the
Ridiculous Theatrical Company of New 
York City. Ludlams company has become 
synonymous for inventive, hysterical 
theater-in the early Seventies, the Ridicu
lous Company rose to fame with their pro
duction of The Great Hotel, a plotless, 
limitless compilation of skits, songs and 
drag acts.
Mr. Ludlam recounted the extraordinary 
history' of his company last week in Kresge 
Theater. Currently, Mr. Ludlam is starting 
in the Off-Broadway production of Reverse 
Psychology, a work he has both written and 
directed. Mr. Ludlam is commuting 
between Pittsburgh and New' York, where
he is acting in his show and preparing a new 
production of A Christmas Carol.
This production will remain faithful to 
the original script, which plays for almost 
four hours, but the production will 
undoubtedly have Mr. Luldams ridiculous 
mark on it.
The show stars Jeremy Mann as Homer, 
Erica Nashan, Michael Oberlander and 
Christine Deveau. It will run on Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday Nights.
Tickets for both shows are free of chargt 
to CMU students and may be obtained with 
a valid CMU ID in the Drama Department 
box office in the College of Fine Arts.
Also Itzhak Perlman
The most inviting and stellar event of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony season will take 
place Thursday , Friday and Saturday night 
at Heinz Hall as Itzhak Perlman comes to 
Pittsburgh.
Itzhak Perlman is one of the worlds fore
most violinists ami Pittsburgh Symphony 
has arranged a spectacular program to show 
off Perlmans talent. Featured works are Bai - 
toks Concerto No. 2 for Violin and 
Orchestra, and Stausss Also sprach Zarathustra, whic h first became familiar to the 
wide American public in 2001: A Space 
Odyssey, Stanley Kubricks film.
Ilie Bartk piece is the first erf many of the* 
great cT>mposers works that the Pittsburgh
Symphony will perform this year to mark 
the 100th anniversary of Bartks birth.
Performance times are Thursday at 8 
p.m., Friday at 8:30 p.m. and Saturday at 8 
p.m. For ticket information, call the Heinz 
Hall box office at 281-5000. Students may 
purchase available rush tickets, at $3.50 
each, at the Heinz Hall box office beginning 
15 minutes before each Pittsburgh Sym
phony performance. However, the popular
ity of this particular concert might 
encourage people to reserve their tickets 
beforehand at a slightly higher price.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan wants to integrate science and 
engineering articles into its format. We need 
writers, illustrators, and photographers. Our 
meetings are Thursday evenings at 7 PM, in 
Skibo, room 50.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans win Eastern Regional; look toward Nationals
1
Cross Country Coach Gary Meckley (left) has guided 
NCAA finals.
In a performance that eclipsed the hopes 
of even Coach Gary Meckley, the CMU cross 
country team kept its 1980 record alive as 
I they rolled to a commanding victory at EastI em Regionals of the NCAA Cross Countr y 
^Championships last Saturday at Lebanon 
| Valley College. The Tartans took second,
I third, 11 th, 16th and 34th place for a total of
th Tartans, led by Dario Donatelli to a berth in th
65 points. Both teams will qualify for the 
NCAA National tournament to be held this 
Saturday at the University of Rochester. 
Frostburg State, Haverford and Glassboro 
State also qualified for the national race.
The Tartan effort was led once again by 
senior Dario Donatelli who ran a strong race 
but was outkicked at the tape by Franklin
time of 24:39 was just four seconds of the 
pace set by Holmboe. The race between the 
two runners was tight throughout the 8000 
meter course but, as Coach Mecklev said, 
Dario just ran out of race. If the race had 
been a little longer, he might have won.
Freshman John Wessels came in third 
with a time of 24:47 to lead the CMU fresh
men charge. The Tartan freshmen have 
been running well all but, as Meckley points 
out, one never knows how freshmen will 
run in post season competition. A few sea
sons ago we had a fine group of freshmen 
competing in the Conference meet and we 
had a chance to place well but, when the 
race began, our boys didnt run well. You just 
cant tell how freshmen will react to pres
sure.
These guys are something else. They 
were running in what is probably the tough
est region in the country and they were fan
tastic. I think I have the best team of
freshmen of any Division III team in the 
country.
Mike Short finished in 11 th in the race at 
25:17. KevinJBrewer finished at 25:24 to take 
16th and Bob Dusch completed the scoring 
with a 34th place finish and a time of 25:50.
When the Tartans run at Rochester next 
week they w ill be facing the best teams and 
individual runners Division III has to offer. 
Along with the teams that have qualified 
from the Eastern Region, the Plaid will face 
strong competition from New England 
Region powerhouse Brandeis; Ohio North
ern and North Central (ILL.) of the Central 
Region and Occidental and Pomona-Pitzer 
of the Western Region.
Coach Meckley looks for the Tartans to 
place in the top ten while captain Dario 
Donatelli is looking for a fifth or sixth 
place finish. Either way, this race will com
plete the best year for the cross country team 
in CMU history.
26 Tartans earn AllConference recognition
by Wes Seeley
Tartans were prominent this year as the 
I All-Conference teams in the Presidents 
I Athletic and Pennwood West Conference 
I were announced. In all 26 Tartans earned 
pNPeither first team, second team or honorable 
H mention honors.
The Tartans most successful team this 
fall was the cross country squad which went 
through the regular season undefeated and 
took the conference title in record-breaking 
form, scoring only 19 points.
The first four runners across the line were 
Tartans and they have been awarded first
FIRST TEAM  OFFENSE
I Jeff Beer
POS.
QB
HT.
6-0
WT.
188
YR.
SR
SCHOOL
BethanyI Tom BaldinelliRB5-8156SRJCUI Bob MeyerRB6-0205SR -Thiel
 Denny WilliamsWR6-3 '185SRBethany1 Dale GrossoWR6-1200SRBethany
K Tom CornellTE6-3220SRJCUI Rich ParksL6-1230SRThiel
1 J)an Lazine 
g* Jim Prencipe
L6-2225SRAllegheny
L5-11208SRCMUI A1 MylanL6-0200JRCMUI Mike BarbourL6-1250SRW&J
I Rick Arturo
/ :
L
FIRST TEAM - 
6-0 195
- DEFENSE 
SRCMU
I Rick KuczmarskiL6-3225JRJCUI Dan DoyleL6-3210SRW&J
1 Jeff KorczykL6-4225SRThielI Lance MondockE6-1195SRW&JI Pat MechasE6-0195SRCMU
I Tom Daley 
P'Kevin Brinkhoff
LB6-0190JRBethany
LB5-10190JRThielI Jeff HeymannDB5-9175SOCWRUI Joe WagnerDB5-111?0JRCMU1 Max RegulaDB6-0180JRW&J
I Bill CarverK6-3165SRBethany
Randy LamendolaP *
QB
SECOND TEAM 
5-9 160
- OFFENSE 
SOAllegheny
I Rich HurleyRB5-10190SRHiram
I Steve MolnarRB5-10180SRCWRU
I Mark LeposkyWR5-10' 160JRCMU
1 Iom WesterkampWR6-1170SRJCU
r Frank YohoTE6-2190SRW&J
1 Rich GoldnerL6-1200SOThiel
Pat BrinfhoffL5-11215SOThiel
1 Dave CollinsL6-0214SRBethany'
I Dan OConnellL5-11185SOHiram
I Mike M(X)ieL6-1220JRHiram
1POS.
SECOND TEAMHT. WT.
DEFENSE
YR.SCHOOL
I Vince DonatelliL5-9180SOAllegheny
L Dave SedmakL5-11215SRAllegheny
| Tony HassettL6-2220SRHiram
Hill Be,,hL5-9175SRJCU
I Mark OlszewskiE6-0195SOBethany
Dan RoganE6-0185JR1 litam
Ken MurawskiLB6-0190JRCMU
Francis BuckLB6-1210SRJCU
Jerome NelsonDB5-1 :175SOAllegheny
RanchReimoldDB6-2190SRAllegheny
Steve AdamsDB5-11173FRBethany
i Vic 1 leymanDB5-9180SOCWRU
team honors for their efforts. They are senior 
Dario Donatelli, who has been named to the 
team twice before, and freshmen Mike 
Short, Hohn Wessels and Kevin Brewer. 
Second team recognition went to two Tar
tans, and they are both freshmen as well  
John McGowen and Art Ward. No PAC
HOMETOWN
Coraopolis, PA 
Sharon, PA 
North Babylon, NY 
Wellsburgh, WV 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Norridge, II 
Corry, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Ridgway, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Rochester, PA
Jgfenn Hills, PA
Independence, OH 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Washington, PA 
Penn Hills, PA 
Strafford, NJ 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Buffalo, NY 
Doylestown, PA 
Latrobe, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA
Leediburg, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Canton, OH 
New Castle, PA 
Lombard, IL 
Clarion, PA 
Gibsonia, PA 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Connell svi lie, PA 
Girard, OH 
Wanen, OH
HOMETOWN
Pittsburgh, PA 
McMunay, PA 
Geneva, OH 
Port Monmouth, NJ 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Painesville, OH 
Pittsburgh, PA 
Urbana, IL 
Upjxi St. Clair, PA 
Greenville, PA 
Duquesne, PA 
Skkilscen OH
team has ever placed that many runners to 
the All-Conference team.
The other Tartan team that placed first 
this fall was the womens tennis team which 
shared the Pennwood West Conference 
rrow n. In so doing, two Tartans von their 
flights of the tournament to capture AllPAC honors. Jennifer Mullan won the 
Flight 2 title in immpressive form, not los
ing a set in the process and freshman Bridget
Kyne took the Flight 3 crown in just as 
convincing a fashion. She lost only one 
match all season for Coach Mark Bush and 
should move up to first or second seed in the 
years to come.
As has been the case for the last four sea
sons, the Tartan football team is very well 
represented on the All-Conference squads. 
Four offensive and five defensive players 
were so honored on this years teams. Guard 
Jim Prencipe and tackle A1 Myian take their 
place on the first team offensive line. The 
two seniors anchored the Tartan line this 
year, opening holes for the most potent 
rushing game in the conference.
Middle guard Rick Arturo and defensive 
end Pat Mechas, both seniors, were named 
to the first team defense along with junior 
defensive back Joe Wagner. Arturo and 
Mechas were two of the Plaids leading 
ladders while Wfagner made his presence 
known with his one interception and two 
fumble recoveries and will be back in the 
Tartan secondary' next year.
The second team features junior Mark 
Leposky at wide receiver and junior line---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 18, 1980
Water polo and volleyball titles to be decided this week
Its going to be a busy week in intramurals with championships being decided in 
two sports and play beginning in two more.
After some delay, the intramural water 
polo final is scheduled to be played Wednes
day night at 8:30 PM at the pool. In the 
game, SAE will face the Computer Science 
Department. Dont miss what should be a 
very exciting championship game. The 
water polo commissioner is Greg Burke, 
phone 682-9313.
The championship playoffs for sixperson volleyball are underway with cham
pions to be crowned in four divisions 
tonight. Playoff teams from the major 
league are Ustalar, Wild Bunch, FEVA and 
the Ballbusters. In the intermediate league, 
Theta Xi, Zanzibar, ZBT and Phi Kap have 
qualified. Architecture Department, 
Hawks, Off With Their Hands and HKN 
are in the minor league playoffs and Zan
zibar II will meet Defiance in the womens 
final. The six-person volleyball commis
sioner is Mike Pochan, phone 683-0372.
Play will begin this week in three-person 
volleyball with games starting tonight in 
the gym. Schedules are available on the IM 
bulletin board. Mike Pochan, phone 683- 
0372, is the commissioner.
The action will also start this week in 
darts. Rules and schedules can be picked up 
in the IM office. Please get all matches 
played as scheduled and turn in scores to the 
intramural office, Room 104, Gym. The 
commissioner is Sheila Dunham, phone 
578-4751.
In other intramural sports, play is under
way in soccer and there have been some 
upsets. Last week, in the major league, 
Gargoyles-A stopped the defending cham
pion Bootstraps and Psycho defeated Los 
Santos in the minors. Please remember to 
note the winning team and score on the 
score sheet after each game. Chris Wargo is 
the commissioner, phone 683-5728 or 621 - 
9144.
The finals will be starting later this week
in racquetball with a champion to be 
crowned next week. Please check the intram
ural bulletin board for the playoff schedule. 
The commissioner is Jon Polansky, phone
372-2576.
The play in IM bowling takes place at 
Strand Lanes in Oakland on Saturday 
morning. Please pay all bowling fees to the 
Strand I^anes as soon as possible. The 
bowling commissioner is Dave Hecht, 
phone 678-8968.
Please remember to turn in all table tennis 
scores to the IM office or commissioner Dave 
Kusma as soon as your game is played. Dave 
can be reached at 578-4270.
A commissioner is still needed for the IM 
backgammon tournament. Anyone inter
ested in running the tournament should call 
IM Board president Bob Dudas at 682-6133 
or Mr. Birdy at the.Intramural Office, phone 
578-2214.
touch football teams: Please get your ballot 
for All-School team and Most Valuable 
Player to the IM office.
Ihe next meeting of the Intramural 
Board will be* Thursday, November 20 at 
12:30 PM in Room 104, Gym. Please make 
sure your organization is represented at this 
important meeting.
Intramural Soccer Standings 
Majors
CelticsWinLoss
No-Skill30
Rowdies11
Mech-E Team20
Doherty Sioux03
PIKA12
SAE-A03
Superstars11
KSA31
BruinsWinLoss
Epsilon-Deltas30
Bootstraps21
PKT21
Terrible Turks12
Kappa Sigma03
Gargoyles A31
Mellow Heads30
ATO03
Minors
Tea MenWinLoss
WRCT-FM1 -2
SAE-C03
ZOO30
Gargoyles B12
7BT2: 1
Macks21
PatriotsWinLoss
Gruppo Sportino21
TX-A30
Stench III21
Cossacks12
Scobbell Hall12
DTD03
Red SoxWinLoss
TX-B2 -1
BETA02
Flying Circus12
Psycho21
Los Santos21
DU'1I
PRINTED DRINKING 
GLASSES
Wording of your choice
minimum order 5 dozen @ $2.00 
a glass. Souvenir to make your 
occasion special
EVE: 921-8170; DAY: 921-3571
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
A reminder to the captains of the IM
Schluihbeiger,
YouE tell the oil companies where to go...
Many times last year, 
Schlumberger engineers told 
oil companies where to go. 
Since more dry holes are 
drilled than producing wells, 
oil companies depend on our 
opinion on whether or not to 
complete this well, continue 
drilling or to go elsewhere.
The energy industry 
depends on our engineering 
judgment. If you have the 
confidence to accept more 
authority and responsibility 
than youve ever had, consider 
joining Schlumberger.
ri
Schlumberger
W* Arp tir iaul Opportun', fmp'.oycf M/P
Electrical Engineers 
Mechanical Engineers 
Physics & Geophysics Majors
INTERVIEWS: Carnegie-Mellon University Tuesday, December 2
MEETING: Monday, December 1 
Skibo, #11, 7:00 p.m.
If a rewarding outside job and demanding work appeal to you, attend 
our information meeting scheduled for the day before our interviews.
Learn about our company and the career opportunities we have for 
you. A brief slide presentation about our Field Engineering positions 
will be followed by a question-answer period. Spouses are invited to 
come, too. If unable to attend, inquire about Schlumberger at,your 
Placement office.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1980The Tartan-Page 15
26 Tartans named to 
All-Conference teams
continued from page 13 
backer Ken Murawski. Leposky started the 
year rather slowly but picked up the pace 
later on and was a primary target for Tartan 
passers down the stretch. Murawsky was 
CMUs leading tackier and will return as a 
co-captain next season.
In addition to these first and second team 
picks, senior center Joe Goldcamp and jun
ior Joe Csonka, a defensive tackle, were 
named to the team as honorable mentions.
First year field hockey coach Leesa DiBartola led her team to within one game of the 
PSC title this year and her team was. 
honored with five all-conference choices. 
Senior Alexandra Allen heads the list which 
also features juniors Elaine Andrysick, 
Carolyn Gray and Edna Kunkel and sopho
more Mary Rehak. Rehak was the Plaids 
leading scorer on the season and she, along
with Gray, were keys to the offense while 
Allen, Andrysick and Kunkel anchored the 
defense. All but Alex Allen will return next
season.
The Tartan soccer team had a rough time 
of this year as they had an overall record of 
3-8-2, 0-4-2 in the PAC, but Mike Weunstel, 
a junior from Pittsburgh, was named to the 
All-PAC team as a midfielder. Sophomore 
defender Mike Minnock was an honorable 
mention to the team.
Coach Jane Fisks volleyball team fur
nished third in the Pennwood West tourney 
and two players were named to the All-PWC 
squad. Senior Jennifer Castor and junior 
Jennifer Donaldson were granted that 
honor. Castor was the only senior on this 
years team, so next year, with Donaldson 
leading a long list of returnees, CMU should 
be back in the title race.
PAC ALLCONFERENCE SOCCER TEAM
Pos.-NameYr.SchoolHometown
Goalie-Andy OroszFr,CWRLILakewood, Ohio
Goalie-Tim HazelJCUCleveland Hts., Ohio
Defender-Paul HaywardJr.BWest Hill, Ontario
Defender-Bruce On isSr.CWRIICleveland Hts., Ohio
Defender-Tim OCallahanJr.JCURidgewood. N.J.
Defender-Dirk Van HeystSr.ARochester, N.Y.
Defender-Paul DenfieldJr.BAnnandale, Va.
Defender-Oscar ChabezSr.HCleveland, Ohio
Midfielder-Mike WuenstelJr.CMUPittsburgh, PA
Midfielder-Bill DennistonJr.BScarborough, Ontario
Midfielder-David FomerJr.BSpringdale, PA
Midfielder-David ShortSr.JCUFox Chapel, PA
For war tl-Tracey Treverr owJr.BHonolulu, Hawaii
Fomard-Jerry Czuchnr}Jr.JCUCleveland, Ohio
Forward-Fra n k A11 marSr.W&JFox Chapel, PA
Fonvard-Sanford MickFr.BDon Mills, Ontario
ieiw aHv. /7 /, cmgioivi 4 / mu Z
> UP -TV Vs OTP ! p
Tar quM-rn fCHEAP 7voi MOt&V!
(A>lTH C-MU L&-
artpad sale!
GRADUATE STUDENT
REMINDER
Nov. 19: GSO Finance Committee Meeting 
GSIA Masters Auditorium-7:30 PM
Nov. 21: GSO Happy Hour 
Skibo-4:30 PM
Dec. 2: GSO Blood Drive 
Skibo-All Day
Dec. 3: GSO Assembly
GSIA Masters Auditorium-7:30 PM
Dec. 12: Christmas Surprise 9 PM-1 AM
SUPPORTED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 18, 1980
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE -'WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LI6HT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIDEMAN
Original
2SP HOT OOG
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS - MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOCS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
* BECKS LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
 CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
* OORT HANSA Germany
* HOFBRAU Germany
 FISCHER GOLD France
* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
 SPATEN Germany
' RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
- MAC KESON STOUT 
England 
 LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
PILSNER UROUELL 
Czechoslovakia 
RIGNES Norway
DOS EQUIS Melico 
PERONI Italy 
GUINESS STOUT Inland
GROLSCHE Holland 
GOSSER Austria 
SAN MIGUEL Phillpines 
KIRIN Japan 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEINEKEN LT ft DK Holland 
FOSTER S LAGER Australia AND MANY OTHERS
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC. 621-7388 or 621 -1185
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH., PA. 15*13
BE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Think of a ship as a corporation, and its not farfetched at all. A destroyer may have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in running the show.You become part of the management team when you get your commission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of leadership training at Officer Candidate School.Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately.Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers
everything from nuclear propulsion to systems analysis, oceanography to inventory management. In graduate school, this training would cost you thousands, but in the Navy, we pay you.Ask your Navy representative about officer opportunities, or mail this coupon for more information. Or call toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA call toll-free 800-342-5855). Theres no obligation, and youll learn about an excellent way to start a career in management. As a college graduate you can get management experience in any industry. But youll get it sooner and more of itin the Navy.
Cl 44NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 2000
Pelham Manor, New York 10803 
? Yes, Im interested in becoming 
a Navy Officer. Please send me more information. (0G)
Name.
FIRST 
Address
(PLEASE PRINT)
-State.
-tCoHege/UniversityGraduation Date. 
A Major/Minor------
0 G rade Point.
Phone Number(AREA CODE)CN11/80
The More We Know. The More We Can Help.
The Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, 505, and 510 states that you do not have to answer the personal questions we have asked. However, the more we know, the more accurately we can determine your qualification for our Navy Officer Program.
All-Conference midfielder Mike Weunstel goes for the ball against West Liberty defender.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSBIUTY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

SNEAK PREVIEW
December 5 & 10
Starring
An Intel Recruiting Team
"ALL ABOUT INTEL
Twice during the last decade, technological innova
tions at Intel Corporation have revolutionized the world 
of microelectronicsfirst with the semiconductor mem
ory, then with the microprocessor computer-on-a-chip.
Our business is built on this ability to introduce new 
technologies and products. To this end, weVe been 
responsible for more than a dozen highly innovative 
products that are now industry standards, and at least 
seven major semiconductor fabrication processes.
Today, we are the indisputable leader in four sig
nificant product areas: semiconductor memory, memory 
systems, microcomputer components, and micro
computer systems. And from sales of just $4 million in 
1970, weVe grown to over $660 million in revenues in 1979.
How did we do this in such a short period of time? 
With a lot of bright, dynamic, and innovative people at 
every levelfrom management to staff support.
Wed like you to be in on the excitement and the 
challenge. At any of our five Intel locations: Santa Clara. 
California; Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; Austin, 
Texas; and Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Sign Up for Campus Interviews.
Our recruiting team will be on campus soon to give 
you a preview about careers at Intel.
If youre about to receive a degree in the following 
disciplines  Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, 
Solid State Physics, Chemical Engineering, Materials 
Science, Accounting, Finance, Operations Management, 
Business, Economics, Production Management, Industrial 
Relations, or other related fields  sign up now in 
your placement office to talk with one of our representatives 
on campus.
Or send your resume to Intel College Relations at one 
of our locations in the area of your geographic preference.
CALIFORNIA: 3065 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 9505L
OREGON: 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97123.
ARIZONA/TEXAS/NEW MEXICO: 6401W. Williams Field Road,Chandler, AZ 85224.
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h.
SPONSORED BY 
THE SOCIETY 
OF WOMEN IN 
ENGINEERING
TECHNICAL 
CAREERS 
CONFERENCE
SATURDAY, 
NOV. 22, 1980 
9:30 am-4:30 pm
November 18, 1980The TartanPage 17
Workshops Include
resume writing 
summer job hunting 
product liability 
interviewing tech
niques
Corporate booths 
open at 9:30. Come 
visit the companies 
and see their pro
ducts.
Rock-n-Roll
Writh two huge successes already under its 
belt, AB Dance is planning another party at 
The Common Grounds, which is quickly 
gaining a reputation as the liveliest weekend 
spot on campus.
This week it is Rock n Roll Nite, featur
ing two energetic bands. The main attrac
tion is Le Slick, one of the most asked-for 
groups in Western Pennsylvania. This expe
rienced quintet (members have played with 
such national and international artists as 
Wild Cherry, Renaissance, and Mungo 
Jerry will haul their concert sound sys
tem, lighting, and special effects into the 
Morewood cafeteria. Le Slicks four lead 
vocalist allow them to perform a wide var
iety of tunes-the best of the 60s, 70s, and 
80s.
The opening act will be The Veige, a 
suprising and original band which has 
recently broken into the Oakland music 
scene. Dancers and Rockers alike should get 
what they crave this Friday night at The 
Common Grounds. Music starts promptly 
at 9;00.

---------------------------------------------------

You are looking 
at the 
third 
great reason 
to join LINK ABIT.
No.l. Career Enhancement
We have all the ingredients you need to start a great career going  
state of the art technology, rapid growth and a supportive work 
environment committed to technical excellence. Since 1968, LINKABIT has 
been applying communications theory, computer science and digital technology to 
the conception, development and manufacture of very advanced communication and 
teleprocessing systems and components.
No. 2. LINKABITS Future
Since our founding twelve years ago, by a group of communication engineers and computer scientists, 
L1NKABITS sales have increased more than 50% each year. Our present backlog of over $30 million 
virtually assures this growth rate will continue.
No. 3. San Diego Living
This is an ideal place to work and to play. The University of California at San Diego and the San Diego 
State University campuses are less than 15 minutes away from our facilities in Sorrento Valley. San 
Diego's 70 miles of beaches and coves are within easy access all year round, while cosmopolitan San 
Diego and nearby Mexico offer everything from opera, symphony, theatre and dining to major league 
sports, deep sea fishing and bull fights.
Career opportunities exist at LINKABIT for Electrical Engineering and Computer Science graduates 
and individuals with relevant backgrounds to work in the following areas:
 COMMUNICATION SYSTEM DESIGN  PACKET SWITCHING
 MICROPROCESSOR BASED .  COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
COMMUNICATION COMPONENTS  COMPUTER COMMUNICATION
 DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING PRODUCTS
 RF DESIGN  SOFTWARE TOOLS
 REAL TIME SOFTWARE DESIGN  SECURE SOFTWARE
 MICROPROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE  CRYPTOGRAPHY
A SPECIAL NOTE TO CARNEGIE-MELLON STUDENTS
Among the more than 480 people who make Linkabit a leader are the following Carnegie-Mellon 
graduates: Keith Kambies Karen Stephen Dave Olisar Mark Robinson
Representative accomplishments include:
 Microprocessor-based modems for high to low data rate applications.
 Powerful error-correction and data compression encoder-decoders.
 Packet switching data modems and decoders
 Large-scale communication networks design, integration and management
 Multiple access communications systems such as TDMA, FDMA, CDMA, high speed TDM's and 
DA-TDMA systems
 Complete software controlled communication terminals including user interfaces
Please send your resume for immediate consideration to Pat McLean, College 
Relations Administrator.
LINKABIT CORPORATION
A M/A COM Company
10453 Roselle Street, San Diego, CA 92121
(714)453-7007 We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Bants.
theater
November 12 through December 21 
Death of a Salesman
The second production of Pittsburgh Public 
Theaters 1980-81 season, following the enor
mous success of Im Getting My Act Together 
and Taking It On The Road. There are student 
rush uckets available, although reservations are 
suggested. 323-1900 for tickets and informadon.
October 30 through November 23
Dont Walk Around Stark Naked and The
Bald Soprano
Theatre Express presents two one act plays for 
the opening production of its 1980-81 season. 
The plays are French farces by Georges Feytleau and Eugen Ionesco, respectively. 621- 
5454 for tickets and information.
film
SDC Film Series
November 22
All The Presidents Men starring Robert Redford, Dustin Hoffman and Jason Robards in 
an academy award winning role as Ben Bradlee. Based on Woodward and Bernsteins fam
ous investigation into the Watergate affair. 
6,9 and 12 in DH2210. $.50 with CMU ID.
Carnegie Institute Film Series
November 18 
Fellini Series
I Clowns (The Clowns), in which Fellini 
flamboyantly explores his fasination with the 
circus clown as a source of images. 8 p.m. in 
the Lecture Hall. $1.50.
November 20 
Visiting Filmmakers
Tony Buba will present a program of his films 
including Sweet Sal. Bubas films are amus
ing and sympathetic films about Braddock, a 
Pittsburgh suburb. 8 p.m. in the Museum of 
Art Theater. $1.
November 23 
Film Noir Series
Kiss Me Deadly and Hustle by Robert 
Aldrich. The latter film stars Burt Reynolds 
and Catherine Deneuve. 7:30 in the Lecture 
Hall. $1.50.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
November 19
From Here To Eternity starring Burt Lancas
ter, Montgomery Cliff and Frank Sinatra. 7:30 
and 9:30.
November 20
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest directed by 
Milos Forman, and starring Jack Nicholson 
and Louise Fletcher. Winner of Academy 
Award for best movie, director, actor and 
actress. 7:30 and 9:50.
November 21
Those Lips, Those Eyes starring Frank Langella. Another behind the scenes look at show 
business. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
November 22
Apocalypse Now directed by Francis Ford 
Coppola and starring Martin Sheen, Robert 
Duvall and Marlon Brando. 7:30 and 10:10.
November 23
America, America directed by Elia Kazan. 7:30 
and 10:30.
November 24
Gilda Live starring Gilda Radner, with an 
appearance by Father Guido Sarducci. 
Directed by Mike Nichols. 7:30 and 9:40.
art
Through November 23 
Joe Shepler
Paintings and drawings, at the PPA (Pittsburgh 
Plan for Art) Gallery at 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 
to 5, and Sunday 1 to 5.
Through November 23 
David Summers
Paintings, at the PPA Gallery
Campus Galleries
Through November 21 
Margaret Bauman
In the Ellis Gallery of the College of Fine Arts. 
Gallery Hours are Monday through Friday, 
8:30 a.m. to 5 o.m.
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit medical facility
iplQtfh
ADTICT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINCSUPPLIES
355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M.
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
You want your degree to take you places, but you know your 
degree by itself is no guarantee of the future. So youre going 
to choose your employer carefully. Taylor may be just the ticket for you.
A lot of good things are happening at Taylor . . . Taylor is 
growing. Things have never been better in any period during 
our entire 130 year history. Our Electronic Division is headlin
ing state-of-the-art electronics with technology and new pro
ducts second to none in the entire process control industry. 
The emphasis is on systems ... the latest in microprocessor 
based systems and conventional instrumentation. Our antici
pated growth in the Electronics Division will be approaching 
300 percent by the end of 1981... thats growth and opportun
ity! Couple that with our diverse product line and technologies 
. . . our reputation for excellence in the field, an aggressive 
attitude, and an environment with emphasis on the individual.. and you have a winning combination.
COMPUTER SYSTEMS SOFTWARE ENGINEERS - Design, specify, and test custom system software to implement com
puterized process control systems. Opportunities in Application and Engineering Services areas.
SYSTEMS ENGINEERS - Design and develop computerized 
process control systems. Pre-post sales activities including 
system definition and configuration. Project management.
ELECTRONIC DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERS - Design stateof-the-art instrumentation and microprocessor/computer 
based systems for process control and distributed data acquisition. Openings in hardware and software areas.
SALES ACCOUNT MANAGERS - Market analog and digital 
process control instrumentation and systems. 18 month Sales Training Program.
, MANUFACTURING ENGINEERS - Floor support, methods, and other classical I.E. functions supporting electronic, 
pneumatic, and machine divisions.
RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
Monday, December 8,1980
See your Placement Office TODAY!
Resumes may also be submitted to: Technical/Professional Placement  Dept. 1118
SYBRON Taylor TAYLOR INSTRUMENT
We Are Ar Equa ODPO',tur95 Ames Street Rochester. NY 14601
Juniors and seniors interested in a Masters Program in Public 
Policy studies at the University of Chicago
ATTENTION
Mr. William St. John 
will be on campus 
Thursday, November 20, 
between 1:00 and 4:00 p.m.
Sign up now at the Placement Office 
WH-19 for information.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
The Bnai Brith Hillel activities for the next two 
weeks are:
Thurs., Nov. 20, 12-2 p.m.- Lunch with Rabbi 
Barry Sun at Hillel. Rabbi Starr will share infor-classified
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings, 687-3062.
For Sale: LSI-11/2 computer system, whole sys
tem or individual components, to highest 
bidders. Design Research Center, Paula Robin
son or Mark Birnbaum, 578-2257.
CASH: WANTED, 10,000 Wrecks and
Junkers, 23 hrs., 422-9968.
Pete, Happy Birthday from your big sister Hane.
AIRLINE JOBSFREE INFONationwide 
Write Airline, Placement Bureau 4208 198th, SW 
#101 Lynnwood, WA 98036. Enclose a selfaddressed stamped large envelope.
TY PING. Term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 p.m. if possible.
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Specialize 
in last minute work. Dissertations, manuscripts, 
term papers, statistical, etc. Call 371-3657. 24 hr. 
serv ice, IBM electric.
club
SAME - The Society of American Military 
Engineers will be holding their distric t meeting 
Tuesday, Nov. 18 at the Federal Building. The 
topic will be: The Development of the Greater 
Pittsburgh International Airport. Transporta
tion will leave Margaret Morrsion B-5 at 11:30 
AM. The Pittsburgh Student Chapter meeting 
will be Tuesday, Nov. 25 at 12 noon in Margaret 
Morrison B-5. The topic will be: The planning of 
the Dravo building. If unable to attend call Cap
tain Heiser 578-2196 or Bob Corbin 563-4916.
Explorers ClubAnyone who is interested in 
whitewater rafting, climbing, hiking, caving, 
backpacking,skydiving, hang gliding or any 
other outdoor activity is welcome. Meetings are 
on Thursdays, at 6:30, Skibo Rm. 11.
Tech Flying Club will hold its first meeting of 
the year on Wednesday, November 19, in Skibo 
33 at 8:30 PM. Films will be shown. All are 
welcome! For further information, call Bob 
Chansler at 578-3065.
In conjunction with the Womens Task Force, 
the C-MU SWfE section will be hosting Cindy 
Judd Hill, a member of NOW (National Organi
zation of Women) and a speaker for the Equal 
Rights Amendment. This talk will be presented 
at 7:30 p.m., November 18 in the Hunt Multipur
pose Room (in the basement of Hunt Librarry). 
It is open to the entire campus.
Members of Pi Tau Sigma: The next meeting 
will be Monday, Nov. 24 at 4:30 in SH-402.
The Students Dormitory Counci] meets every 
Wednesday night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo. Everyone is encouraged toattend 
and participate. -
Uniforms of the Marching Band must be 
returned Wednesday November 19th between 
4:30 and 5.00 in the Band Equipment Room, in 
the Gym. Please bring uniform, on a hanger with 
a name lag pinned to it. All questions about this 
should be directed to Pete Giamporcaro. 
Unifroms must be returned this week; there will 
be no exceptions.
general
On Sunday, November 23, the 10 a.m. service at 
the Church of the Reckemer in Squirrel Hill will 
feature a lituigical dance accompanied by a sing
ing of Mendelssohns Hear My Prayer.
mation with us on various Jewish Theological 
Seminary programs.
Fri. Nov. 21. 5:30 p.m.- Shabbat Service and 
Dinner. Make reservations in advance; 8:30 p.m.- 
Sjx-cial Oneg Shabbat with Hashachar at Z0A 
House, 6328 Forbes Ave.
Sat. Nov. 22, 9 p.m.- CMU-Hillel Ice Slatting 
Partymeet in Faculty Dining Room in Skibo.
Sun. Nov. 23, 11 a.m.- CMU-Hillel Clubmeeting at Skibo; 12 noonReal LOX & BAGEL 
brunch at Hillel! (Sponsored by Pitt-Hillel 
Club).
l ues. Nov. 25, 12 noonLunch panel at Hillel. 
Topic: Israels Public Image and American Vis
itor. Sponsored by American Prof. for Peace in 
the Middle East and BBH. Call 621 -8875 for reser
vations.
November 19, 1980 Nibelungen (Black and 
white, silent with English subtitles and music, 62 
minutes). The filming of the Nibelungen Song. 
Ilie first part, Siegfrieds wooing of Kriemhild, 
the wife wooing for Gunther .and Siegfrieds 
death, is shown in flashbacks. The second half 
deals with the descent of the Burgunder at the 
court of the Huns. Monumental expressionistic 
film. Director: Fritz Lang. Starring: Paul Richter, 
Margarethe Schon, Theodor Loos.
Dec. 3, 1980 Der Arzt von Stalingrad (Black and 
white, German dialogue with English subtitles,
110 minutes). The movie tells the story of a 
POW-camp in Russia following World War II. 
Camp 5110/47, one out of thousands, has 
become a symbol by the mere fact that one of the 
physicians, Dr. Bohler, a prisoner as well, demon
strated to his fellow comrades with almost super
human strength and determination how hate can 
be overcome by selfless love. Director: Geza Radvanyi. Starring: Eva Bartk, Hannes Messemer, 
Mario Adork, Walter Reyer, O. E. Hasse, Leonh
ard Steckel, Vera Tschechowa.
JOIN US AT LUNCH in the Kiltie Cafeteria on 
Wednesdays at Noon! The Department of Engi
neering and Public Policy invites interested CIT 
Freshmen and EPP students to join us at a 
reserved lunch table with your lunch every' Wednesday to meet EPP faculty and staff. BE 
THERE!
THE T-SHIRT CO. is ready to take your print
ing order. We will print anything for any organi
zation! For more information call X3535 or come 
on down to Room 58 Skibo to fill out an order 
form. The T-Shirt Co. is under the direction of 
Student Corporation, bringing you the services 
you want!
Oakland Review, literary magazine of the CMU
community, is now accepting submissions of 
poetry, short fiction, b/w illustration, one-act 
plays and other creative endeavors for the 1981 
issue. The 1980 issue will soon be available at 
CMU and other local bookstores. Submissions 
should be placed in the OR mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Deadline is February 13.
All those interested in selling artwork through 
the Forbes Street Gallery (via a Christmas sale) 
please contact one of the gallery staff by calling or 
by leaving a note in the Skibo Information Desk 
mailbox.
Monday Nov 17th through Sunday Nov 23rd the 
Foribes Street Gallery will be exhibiting the works 
erf the Fourtissimo(Hugh Watkins, Tom 
Megalis, Tom Tercek, John Judy.) The show 
will include a wide variety of drawings, paint
ings, sculpture, prints, photography and film.
The CMU Jazz Ensemble with Randy Purcell 
will perform in Skibo Ballroom Thurs., Nov. 20 
at 8:00 p.m.
Campus Program Planning presents film seriesConnection. Two showings 11:30 and 1:30 
Wherrett Room. Wed. Nov. 19- Distant Voices. 
Wed. Dec. 3- Faith in Numbers.
Any student (preferably workstudy) interested in 
working at the election poll in Skibo during the 
Student Senate elections Nov. 19th and 20th, 
please contact C ami Marble at X4950. There is no 
limit to the number of hours which can be 
worked; pays $3.10 an hour.
Students interested in learning about studying 
abroad with the American Institute for Foreign 
Study are invited to join in a disc ussion on Tues
day, November 18, at 1:00 p.m. in BH 161. Early 
sign-up with Dean Lloyd will be apprec iated.
Students interested in learning more about study 
abroad with the American Institute for Foreign 
Study are invited to join in a discussion on Tues
day, November 18, at 1:00 PM in BH 161. Early 
sign-up with Dean Lloyd will be appreciated.'
official
TECHNICAL CAREERS CONFERENCENOV. 22: You are invited toattend workshops on 
resume writing, summer job hunting, interview
ing techniques, product liability, assertiveness 
training (for women only) and financial consid
erations after graduation. There will also be cor
porate booths which may be visited. The 
conference begins at 9:30 a.m. and is free. Spon
sored by the Society of Women in Engineering.
PRESIDENT TO HAVE OPEN OFFICE 
HOURS FOR STUDENTSPresident Ric hard 
Cyert will have ojx-n office hours for students 
between 3 and 5 p.m., in his office on Monday, 
December 1. Students who would like to meet 
with the president should telephone his office, 
578-2200, to set up an apjxiintment. It is hoped 
that this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing direc t con
tact with him.
The Communication Skills Center offers free 
individual instruction for students at all levels 
and in all colleges who need help with any aspect 
of writing. You can get tailor-made programs 
focused on specific writing and thinking skills, 
help in preparing and revising assignments, help 
with research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted instruction. Call 
or come in to make an appointment with a 
faculty member 161 Baker Hall, X2924, Monday 
through Friday, 9:00 to 4:00.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
scholarship
Candidates for 1981 - 82 Luce Scholars are now
being nominated by Camegie-Mellon, one of the 
60 colleges and universities that participate in the 
Luce Scholars Program. Camegie-Melldn will 
submit its nominations to the Luce Foundation 
early this fall.
Sponsored by the Henry Luce Foundation, the 
Scholars Program was established in 1973 to 
improve American understanding of Asia. Fif
teen Luce Scholars are selected each year on the 
basis of their leadership potential. They are 
assigned to one-year placements in Asian com
munities under the guidance of leading Asians 
and are viewed as professional apprentices. The 
distinguishing feature of the program is that it is 
directed exclusively toward those who are not 
Asian or international specialists.
Candidates must be American citizens, under 
thirty years of age, and recipients of at least a 
bachelors degree. Graduating seniors may be 
nominated if a degree is forthcoming prior to 
departure for Asia.
For further information about the nomination 
procedures, contact the Henry Luce Foundation,
111 West 50th Street, New York, New York 
10020. Telephone: 212 489-7700.
NEED A RIDE TO 
THE AIRPORT?
RIDE TH A PHI 0 
SHUTTLE BUSf
Leaving Wednesday 
November 26
M0REW00D GARDENS DONNER HALL 
11:45 12:00
2:15 2:30
4:45 5:00PRICE $2.50
TICKETS AVAILABLE 
AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
m m m m    CAMPUS CONVENIENCEphocppb yRh ertZus maanyu pI5.E pdi
