The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.* TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944
Miss E. Winchester 
Celebrates Quarter 
Century On Campus
Miss Edith Winchester, head of 
the Secretarial Department in Mar
garet Morrison, celebrated her 
twenty-fifth anniversary as a teach
er at Carnegie Tech on February 1. 
As a tribute, flowers, handkerchiefs, 
jewelry, and many cards were sent 
to her by students and other friends. 
At one of the many parties given 
for her, the girls of the Secretarial 
Club presented Miss Winchester 
with a beautiful orchid and a pair 
of gloves which, as she exclaimed in 
amazement, really fit! Among 
other things, Miss Winchester re
ceived four original poems, one of 
which was set to the music of Oh 
What A Beautiful Mornin.
Miss Winchester, a member of the 
expedited class of Simmons College 
during World War I, was graduat
ed. with a B. S. Degree, and, since 
then, she has been teaching at Car
negie. During that time, she has 
observed many changes. When she 
first came here, there were tem
porary barracks for the doughboys 
of World War I along the Cut, and 
the present Canteen was built as a 
Canteen for the boys in the last war.
Miss Winchester likes Carnegie 
Tech very much, and Margaret Mor
rison girls like her and wish to prof
fer their heartiest congratulations 
on her twenty-fifth anniversary.
Connor Rated Best Play 
Of Drama One-Acts
Mr. Kai Heiberg-Jurgenson an
nounced the outcome of the voting 
on the one-act plays which were 
given January 17 to 19. Caleb Con
nor by Suzanne Burrey was voted 
first by the audience. Next came 
Take Two, Theyre Small by Kath
erine Davis, And Be My Love by 
Phyllis Leon, and Concerto by Ruth 
Fischer.
The last night the order of the 
program was changed and this 
change had a great effect on the 
voting. Concerto and And Be My 
Love received more votes the last 
night than they did on the first two. 
The Drama Department plans to 
keep on changing the order of plays 
the nexttime one-acts are done.
New ASTP Division 
With YMCA-CWCA
This past weekend Carnegie Tech 
and the City of Pittsburgh welcom
ed the latest installment of ASTP 
trainees to the campus. These boys, 
who began official classes Monday, 
have come to Carnegie from the 
widely distant areas of City College, 
N. Y.; Fort Benning, Georgia; John
B. Stetson University, Deland, Flori
da;and one lone man from the 
Catholic University of West Vir
ginia. They will not have a com
pany of their own but will be divid
ed up among the existing units on 
campus. The new men are fairly 
evenly divided among terms one, 
two, and three, and in many cases 
will take up their studies from the 
point at which they were dropped 
at other Universities. Last Satur
day night the boys were made espe
cially welcome by a party in their 
honor at the Masonic Temple. The 
festivities of this affair began at 
7:30 when all the new men marched 
down to Oakland to the affair in 
formation, and lasted to the accomWelcomed 
Receptiion
paniment of the juke box music, 
coke, coffee, and cookies, until a 
little after midnight. Sunday after
noon, a reception was held for them 
at Carnegie Union under the com
bined sponsorship of the Tech 
YMCA and CWCA. For this affair, 
the ASTs were divided into shifts 
so that the forty hostesses from the 
CWCA cabinet could adequately 
make each soldier feel welcomed 
personally to Carnegie. At this af
fair as at the Temple, everyone had a 
wonderful time, if the comments of 
many of the boys are to be believed. 
Pvt. George Droelle can be quoted 
as saying that he likes Tech and the 
welcome given him here very much. 
Some of the other boys, Pvt. John
D. Dunn for one, were even more 
pleased with the situationhis com
ment, Ive had more fun than I 
ever had at City College. Pvt. M.
E. Reil was also favorably impress
ed. He confided that he likes Car
negie very much and thinks its a
Continued on page 5
Maggie Murphs Give 
Freshman Tea Dance
The freshmen of Maggie Murph 
are really getting into the groove of 
things around Tech. They have al
ready participated in many activi
ties on the campus, and now they 
are going to sponsor their own 
dance. They decided to call it the 
February Fling, a title which would 
included all the holidays of the 
month.
February Fling is a tea dance set 
for the twelfth of the month from 
three to six oclock in the afternoon 
at Exhibition Hall, Fine Arts Build
ing. It is a stag affair at thirty cents 
a person. This price includes free 
refreshments. Cookies are being 
contributed by the girls, and punch 
will quench your thirst between 
d&nces. Although you wont be 
able to see such bands as Glenn Mil
lers, Harry James and Tommy 
Dorseys, youll be able to dance to 
all the songs they have made popu
lar.
All the girls have been working 
hard to make this dance a big suc
cess. They may not be able to draw 
as well as the Fine Arts students, 
but they have tried to make the 
signs, which are on campus, attrac
tive. Eleanor Alexander, chairman 
of the dance, has been dashing 
around the campus, making sure 
that everything runs smoothly. Sev
eral of the Freshmen girls will be 
hastesses who will try to mix the 
crowd during the dance. They will 
wear red paper hearts on their 
dresses to distinguish themselves 
from the other girls.
Soldiers and civilians are invited, 
making this an all-campus dance. 
Also it is to be one of the activities 
for the thirty-six new Freshman en
gineers. Tickets will be circulating 
around the campus. There will be 
booths in the front hall of Indus
tries and at the Canteen every day 
during lunch hours.
Religious Discussions 
Planned At Carnegie 
For Week of 21st
In order to stress the part that re
ligion must play in the post-war 
world, as well as to aid the college 
student in correlating his religion 
with campus life, Carnegie Tech 
will hold its fifth annual Religious 
Discussions Program the week be
ginning Monday, February 21.
Though tentative plans now in
clude various forums throughout 
the week, the climax of the yearly 
event will take place on Tuesday 
when students will have an oppor
tunity to hear representative 
clergymen from the Catholic, Prot
estant, and Jewish faiths discuss the 
common topic, Facing the Future 
Unafraid. Following a probable 
appearance at dinner with the dorm 
students, the clergymen will con
duct an open question and answer 
forum for everyone in the Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall at 8:00 
that evening.
Following custom, the various 
fraternities and sororities will invite 
well-known local religious leaders 
to speak informally at group dis
cussions to be scheduled during the 
week. At this time the guest speak
ers will help the members in solving 
group and personal problems as re
lated to religion.
Acting as Chairman of the weeks 
activities will be Dr. H. L. Lang, 
Head of the General Science De
partment in Margaret Morrison. He 
will be assisted by Mrs. Jesse Yon, 
Dean of Women; Mr. A. J. Murphy, 
Dean of Men; Mr. Rollin V. Davis, 
Secretary of the YMCA; Mr. J. Rosenbach of the Committee of Man
agement: Dr. Clara Miller, sponsor 
of the CWCA; and a committee of 
students; Don Gross, Leon Levy, 
Clementine McKenna, Ralph Simon, 
Ruth Tisherman, and Don Worth.
Quarter Group 
Takes Trimesters
At a recent meeting of the Edu
cational Senate, a new curriculum 
was approved for the civilian en
gineering students now on the fourquarter plan who have finished 
three quarters. The new curricu
lum will be put into operation May 
8, 1944 for those students who en
tered August 9, 1943. In the case of 
the freshman who entered Novem
ber 6, 1943, a similar curriculum 
will be put into effect when they 
have completed three quarters of 
the AST program. In operation, the 
new schedule will enable those stu
dents effected to enter into the nor
mal Junior and Senior years after 
the completion of their Sophomore 
year.
As the plan now stands, two op
tions will be offered. All students 
taking Chemical Engineering, 
Chemistry, and Metallurgical Engi
neering will schedule courses in Op
tion I; all students taking General 
Mechanical Engineering, Aeronaut
ical Engineering, Civil Engineering, 
Electrical Engineering, Physics, and 
Mathematics will schedule courses 
in Option II. The curriculum is as 
follows:
Option I 
Trimester I
Course Units
Advanced General andQualitative
...................15
................... 9
................... 9
Social Relations ................................ 9
Physical Training or................... 3
R. O. T. C. .... :................................ 3
Trimester 11
...................51
CourseUnits
Quantitative Analysis ..................... 9
Mathematics .............................. 9
................... 9
Social Relations ................................ 9
^Chemical Technology . ....................12
Physical Training or................... 3
R. O. T. C.........................................., 3
...................51
*This course will be given in the Department of Chemical Engineering but 
will be conducted jointly by the three 
departments concerned.
Continued on page 5
Ex Jap Prisoner Will 
Speak At Union Thurs.
Twenty-one months in a Japanese 
Internment Campsuch was the 
harrowing experience of Wilson 
Hume, former YMCA secretary in 
India and scheduled speaker for 
the first joint CWCA-YMCA pet-to
gether on February 10 at the Union.
A former Phi Beta Kappa active 
and Yale graduate Mr. Hume was 
on his way home from the East 
when he was interned in the Philip
pines shortly after Pearl Harbor. 
Having arrived in the United States 
on a nexchange ship only recently, 
his appearance in the Union at 5:00 
will mark one of his first public ap
pearances. According to Mr. R. V. 
Davis, Secretary of the Carnpgie 
YMCA, Mr. Humes account of his 
adventures will undoubtedly bo 
most interesting, and all students 
and soldiers are invited to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

zTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944
A>uncUaisiThe Outlook  . .
Smiles For The Freshmen
The welcome is out, the band is playing Fight for the Glory of Car
negie, and this years crop of freshmen are awe-stricken at their first taste 
of college life. We recall September B.E.E. (Before Expedited Era) when 
the rah-rah spirit was rampant on campus, when freshmen were kings 
for a day and nobody cared about Hitler. When the Tartan gave top billing 
to T. Dorsey instead of the latest draft status of the engineers. When 
Freshman Week saw Carnegie more nearly approach the Hollywood con
ception of collegiate life, and we played bridge in the haze that was Skibo.
But enough of looking backward to the old world. The freshman en
tering Carnegie Tech is beginning a new kind of college life where he must 
share the upperclassmens smile of welcome with the ASTP returning 
from furlough. He can no longer dream of his future college days amidst 
the surging thrill of a football victory or the ultra sophistication of a fra
ternity houseparty. College, to him, has become a serious business. He 
must cram as much of a higher education as his 16 or 17 years will permit 
before he is thrust roughly from the tranquility of his home life into the 
inferno that is war. Everything that there is to get from college, he must 
crowd into his adolescently receptive mind for he may never get another 
opportunity.
All of what once was, however, is not entirely lost. Much of the glory 
that was Carnegie still lingers to charm the busy days of the freshman. 
Cokes and dancing in the khakied surroundings of the Canteen. The antici
pation of a never-to-be forgotten Spring Carnival. Boogie-Woogie drifting 
mysteriously down from the fourth floor of the Fine Arts Building 
out across Maggie Murph Street. The slipstick-clad engineers saun
tering intellectually out of Engineering Hall oblivious of their sur
roundings. The suave stage diction of the dramats mingled with the hup, 
tup, thrup, four cadence as Company B marches to class. An uninhibited 
swell of pride when the assembled student body gives full voice to,
All hail Carnegie, alma mater 
Stand enthroned forever more.
So to the entering frosh we say, make the most of what little time you 
have. Take your classes seriously, they are your link with the future. Go 
out for activities, they are your link with the rapidly changing present. 
Give Carnegie Tech a place in your hearts. Some day on some far off 
battlefield, glowingly magnified memories of these precious days will come 
back to you as a link with the past. L. S.
Open Letter To Student Body
Here you are a student at Tech. Your classrooms are not in the hills 
nor in the open meadows subject to enemy bombs as are those of our 
Chinese brethren. You havent had to give up your studies to serve as 
guerrilla fighters in defense of your homeland as the Russian youths have 
had to do. Your school has not been destroyed, as those of the British, nor 
permanently closed, as those of the Czechs, Dutch, Belgian, French, Polish, 
and Norwegians.
But their war is our warwhat they are giving up is for us as well as 
for them. Can we then sit smugly behind our desks unconcerned about the 
world around us? Surely you realize that it is your future that is at stake 
what are you doing about it? If you are really interested in that future, 
why not get busy building it now? Join us in our attempt to fill this void 
in Tech activities. We have started a group which with your help has 
unlimited possibilities. In addition to making Tech students war-conscious, 
we will carry on activities of both intellectual and social nature. This 
organization wishes to bring together students, soldiers and faculty in a 
group which while being useful will also be instrumental in ^eating a 
better social relationship among these people.
We cannot possibly succeed, however, unless you give your active 
support. We are putting this up to you.
__________________________________________WAR ACTIVITIES GROUP.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
rHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MMCWNTID FOR NATIONAL A OVCRTlama BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
Vol .38N5CA RENG New ICSTG UG IG
MisEdd t hdWndc  Lot er,sa, t oE, fSElsrWsd 
Dnterod a* second-class matter la the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March S, 187. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief ..........................SC. 6888
Business Manager.....................SC. 8951
Americk was whipped into a 
white-hot rage last week after the 
announcement of the wanfon mur
der of Allied prisoners by the Jap
anese. Wild threats of retributions 
and cries for revenge filled the na
tions newspapers, and our boys in 
the Pacific captured fewer Japs than 
ever. But now that our hate has died 
down a bit we can think more and 
talk less about the question of what 
to do with Japan and Germany 
after the war.
Two wrongs do not make a right, 
and it is absurd to think that we can 
solve the problem by mass-reprisals 
on Japanese and German prisoners 
in our hands. One of the principles 
of democracy is the denial of the 
superiority or inferiority of any 
race, people, or group, and to call 
the Japanese and Germans half-human savages whose existence will 
forever endanger the safety of our 
society is to use methods we are try
ing to exterminate. We must ap
proach the question with the real
ization that essentially a Jap or a 
German is just as good or bad as 
any American or Briton, and that 
we must only eliminate the external 
influences which have misled our 
enemies to their present state.
A fascistic structure is based on 
three things: racism, military im
perialism, and political religion. 
Our aim must be to destroy this 
ominous syllogism; without it, 
Germany and Japan will be ready 
for the lessons of democracy. Let 
us analyze these points one by one.
Political religion  the creed of 
the absolute infallibility and the 
virtual deity of a leaderis the pre
requisite for the blind following of 
the people on which any totalitarian 
state is based. The establishment 
of this dogma was Hitlers first and 
biggest task, one he accomplished 
by Alfred Rosenbergs custom-made 
Germanic religion'; and his own 
frequent claims of super-humanity. 
In Japan the Emperor was by tra
dition already Son of Heaven, and
it was quite easy to tell the people 
that his word was absolute and un
questionable.
The meaning of military imperial
ism is self-evident. It is the acquisi
tion of territory by force, the addi
tional Lebensraum a bait for the 
people. A fascist state cannot be 
static, it cannot give its people a 
chance to think. More and ever 
more conquest, morsel after morsel 
must be thrown to tfre mob so that 
the leader can remain master. After 
the Rhineland, Hitler had to occupy 
Austria, after that, the Sudetenland 
and Czechoslovagia. Had he won 
this war, he would have started an
other, for in spite of a political re
ligion, the people must be kept 
busy, kept fighting.
Racism, by proclaiming the su
periority of a race, and the great 
service it does to mankind by elim
inating certain weaker people, 
screens all real intentions of a dic
tator. It permits him to single out 
some group as the scapegoat on 
which he can put the blame for all 
the evils of his regime. In Japan 
we have always been known as the 
White Devilsracism; Hitler has 
ruthlessly persecuted and virtually 
exterminated the Jews of Europe 
racism; Rep. Rankin calls Walter 
Winchell that kikeracism.
These are the three causes of 
fascism; we must begin by eliminat
ing them. Then we have taken 
away the weeds and the stones, and 
can begin to plant the seeds of 
democracy. The seeds only, for 
both Germany and Japan have 
changed from feudalism to fascism 
by the sudden advent of industry; 
neither had an opportunity for a 
democratic government. They must 
begin where we were in 1776, and 
from there it is a long way to de
mocracy. Even we have not quite 
got there. However, two centur
ies are short in the history of man
kind, and if we destroy the funda
mentals of fascism our descendants 
will see the emergence of democracy 
in Germany and Japan. E. A. L.
Student Employment #. ACAC Minutes ..
Editor....................................................................................................................... Louisa Saul
Military Editor ........................................................................... Cpl. Allan E. Van Patten
Business Manager ............................................................................................ Merle Wolff
Managing Editors....................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Assistant Military Editor.............................................................P. /. C. L. M. Van Deusen
Makeup Editors .......................................................................... Si Corwin and Al Perry
Sports Editor..................................................................................................... Wally Ellman
Assistant Business Manager............................................................................Merle Wolfe
News Editor ............................................................................................. Ernie Lowenstein
Feature Editor ............................................................................................. Jerry Brickman
Headline Editor ............................................................................................. Wally Ellman
Printing Editor ........................................................................................... Adeline Herlick
Copy Editors ............................................................ Marshall Nuremburg, Nick Georges
Reporters: Alma Weinberger, Lucille Emmel, Jeanne Boltey, Dorothy Caplow, 
Jo Svirman, Miriam Frankel, Helen Miller, Ruth Tisherntan, Clara Herron, John 
Regal, Anita Newell, Georgette Paljug, Rosemarie Lang, Mary Jane Horridge, William 
Gladstone, Mary Jane Ferguson.
Off Campus 
Boys
Driving delivery truck for grocer. 
Murray Ave. 65-70c per hour. Any free 
hours, know Squirrel Hill district.
Running lathe for company downtown. 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineer. 65c 
per hour.
AttendantsPsychiatric Hospital; $3.35 
for 8 hours.
HandymanSaturday; home of faculty 
member; 50c per hour.
Boys and Girls
Counselors for Brashear Association 
Settlement, 3:30-5:30, 7:30-9:30. About 
65c per hour.
Girls
Receptionist Womens Hospital; $2 a 
day, 2 meals.
Care of children, regularly or occa-t 
sionally.
Secretarial, Jr. Secretarial, Saturday 
work, doctors office.
Typing, making out hecks, etc., Dra
matic Office.
On Campus
Boys
Boiler room helpers, 5-12 during week, 
60c per hour.
Clerk in receiving office, 50c per hour.
Lost
Professor Norman H. Dawes has lost a 
Mans Pocket Watch, bearing the initials, 
H. E. D. The watch was lost last Wed
nesday evening either in the Carnegie 
Inn, or between Carnegie Inn and Forbes 
street. Professor Dawes was greatly at
tached to the watch since it had be
longed to his father. He will pay a re
ward for its return.
Thirty-second Meeting 
February 2, 1944.
The meeting was -called to order at 5:25 p.m.
Present: Messrs. Festenstein and Wolff; 
Misses Schadel, Skillington, Rial, and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Special Committee
Miss Schadel reported a special assem
bly for Margaret Morrison freshmen to 
be held on Tuesday, February 15. This 
assembly has been called by Dr. Watkins 
and attendance is compulsory.Social
Miss Rial reported that the proceeds 
from the March of Dimes Benefit on Fri
day, January 28, amounted to about $325, 
all of which will go to the infantile 
paralysis fund. The Cwens on their tag 
day collected about $50 for the same fund.
Miss Rial submitted a letter which will 
be sent to the Executive Board request
ing permission to have Spring Carnival.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Emerson, as a member of Interhonorary Council, read the budget to 
cover the expenses of Freshman Orienta
tions Week. He alsd read the schedule of 
activities which have been planned.
Miss Schadel moved that the program 
proposed for Freshman Orientations by 
Interhonorary Council be approved and 
also that their budget for the program be 
accepted.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

I
he and his 
home after
when he came to
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
one of the profs
i
 Outsiders, and even a few of 
tdTs student population we fear, 
often fail to realize the importance 
of the work done in and the per
sonalities hidden behind the smogcovered walls of this old institution 
of learning. In a slightly dingy but 
friendly brown office on the second 
floor of EH sometimeswhen hes 
not rushing madly about conduct
ing three lab periods at oncecan 
Jbe found one of the best, most lov
ed, and really nicest profs on cam
pusProfessor Charles W. Prine. 
This well-known physics instructor
has, since 19
Carnegie, been devoting practically 
every waking hour seeing that 
Techs civilianand recently Army 
engineers  get all the knowledge 
CIT can give them before they are 
swallowed up in the whirl of adult 
life. Before coming to Carnegie, 
Professor Prine attended Denison 
University in Granville, Ohio,I
 where he got his Bachelor of Sci
ence sheepskin; later he went to the 
University of Wisconsin where he 
earned a Masters Degree. After 
finishing his studies, Professor Prine 
came directly to Carnegie where he 
has been for the past twenty-six 
years. Besides teaching day, night, 
and summer school classes, the in
dustrious professor has found time 
.. to work in various Pittsburgh con
cerns such as Macbeth Evans Glass 
Company and to act as consultant to 
more than twelve companies in the 
Allegheny County area. He also 
belongs to several organizations 
such as the American Physical So
ciety, the American Association of 
University Professors, the Ameri
can Association for the Advance
ment of Science, and the American 
, Association of Physics Teachers. He 
is the president of the Physics 
Teachers of Western Pennsylvania 
at this time, and is a past-president
Dantx,
Where Its Young and Gay
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL
Horn
TERRACE
85 cents per person
Flu Tax
hmENLET
. . . Charles W. Prine
of the Physical Society of Pitts
burgh. The good professor has also 
managed to include in his busy life 
a hobby at which he excels as he 
does in practically anything he un
dertakes class demonstrations of 
the laws of physics which invaria
bly refuse to cooperate with him 
proving an exception. For several 
years revolver shooting has taken 
up much of the professors time. He 
has an outstanding record as a 
marksman, holds a rating of Ex
pert in the Police School in Penn
sylvania, and is now president of 
the Pittsburgh Revolver Associa
tion. Fishing in Chesapeake Bay al
so attracts his interest, but he re
fuses to permit the quotation of any 
of his fish stories, insisting strange
ly enough that he has never caught 
anything weighing more than four 
or five pounds. In the autumn sea
son, Professor Prine enjoys exer
cising his shooting prowess in hunt
ing small game such as rabbits, 
squirrels, and particularly pheas
ants. In commenting upon smoky 
Pittsburgh, the Professor said that 
his wife find it almost like 
so many years; and his 
children Charles Jr., Calvin, and 
Helen have never known any 
other home town. In an individualframe of mind, Professor Prine 
even stated that he actually likes 
?ry much. He likes Cartoo and feels that the 
feeling of unrest and uncertainty 
brought about the war will soon 
pass. The only feature of present 
day living to which he really has 
an aversion is the new income tax 
blankwhich he has already com
pleted, incidentally. The professor 
admits in a hushed voice that he 
doesnt understand Einsteins theory 
of relativity, but we are sure that 
this one almost unpardonable sin 
will be overlooked in considering 
his many years of excellent work on 
the Carnegie Campus.
On the Record
The program for the daily record 
recitals held in Room 157, Fine Arts, 
between 12:00 and 1:00 is as fol
lows:
Tuesday, February 8
Die Walkuere___Richard Wagner
(Excerpts from Act III) 
Wednesday, February 9 
Request program.
Thursday, February 10 
Request program.
Friday, February 11 
Request program.
THE PROGRESS OP A 
COMMUNITY 18 REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MKMBIR FIDERAL DKPOStT INIURANCI 
CORPORATION
She Wears The Pants 
The Psychology Of Slacks
For no reason other than one of 
personal edification, this column 
will treat of the macabre. There will 
be discussed here under some of the 
pros and cons concomitant with 
one of the most-discussed style 
questions of modern times.
Slacks, by those who wear them, 
are held to have a number of virtues: 
comfort, appearance, fashion, and, 
maybe, a little of the worldly. With 
one or two exceptions, these points 
cannot be questioned. Comfort is 
granted without debate; fashion 
though just whose fashion it is is 
somewhat mootas above; appear
anceexcluding the rear, or evac
uation, viewcomparable to that of 
ordinary dress. Slacks do have in
trinsic value, but their true value 
to the mind feminine is deeper than 
the crass material. The true worth 
of slacks to those who wear them is 
psychological.
Woman exists in a mans world. 
Ever since the dawn of creation she 
has been held secondary to Man.
All her actions have been predicat
ed on the belief that they were ben
eficial to Manshe has always come 
after the Head. And she has rec
ognized that. She has adjusted her 
life to fit the needs of a masculine 
civilization.
Now, it follows, with Man gone 
to war, he is unable to maintain the 
domestic civilization which he has 
established. He must fighthe can
not think of anything else. And so, 
Woman, realizing that it is her duty 
to Man to keep his society unmar
red, temporarily assumes his posi
tion on the home front. To put her
self in the proper psychological 
frame of mind, she affects a number 
of actions which are masculine. She 
imitates his dress, because she real
izes that Woman, as such, is unable 
to cope with the problems besetting 
her.
We, as human beings, must un
derstand this plight of Woman. We 
must cheer her for her gallant ef
fort, and we must accept slacks as 
a boon to Womans mind, for they 
represent to her a part of that which 
is her inspirationMan.
HUP HIM GET THAT 
CONG DISTANCE CALL 
THROUGH TONIGHT
You can do it by not using Long Distance 
between 7 and 10 P.M. except for urgent calls.
Those are the night-time hours wheu 
many service men are ofl* duty and its their, 
best chance to call home.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944SPORTS
Intramural Basketball 
Is Off To Good Start 
With Several Thrillers
Despite the acute manpower 
shortage which is facing every or
ganization on campus, except the 
ASTP, nine basketball teams have 
been whipped into shape for intra
mural competition. One new fea
ture of this years intramural league 
is the fact that the full court is be
ing used for each game. This is a 
special advantage to any neutral 
spectators, as they do not have to 
sprain their necks watching three 
games at once, as used to be the 
practice. Because the full court is 
being used, two refs have been 
assigned to each game in order to 
maintain the highest possible qual
ity of play.
Although the games lack much 
of the finesse associated with var
sity games, several thrillers have 
already been played and many of 
next weeks games will probably 
be even better. Opening the season 
last Thursday was the Beta-Delt 
game which was hard fought to the 
final whistle. The Delts were the 
victors by a 13-10 score. The Betas 
then bounced back the following 
night to defeat the Beta Sigs 32-9. 
It must be said to the Beta Sigs 
credit, however, that rather than 
forfeit the game they played with 
only four men. Opening the second 
week of intramural games was the 
Tau Delt-Theta Xi game, in which 
the Tau Delts emerged the victors 
by a 25-6 score.
On Thursday, February 1, the 
Beta Sigs nosed out Citcom, in a 
real thriller, by one point to win 
by a 19-18 score. That same eve
ning, the Tau Delts won their sec
ond straight from the Kappa Sigs 
21-16. More woe was yet to come to 
the luckless Kappa Sigs, however, 
for on the following night they were 
soundly trounced by the SAEs 41- 
19. The SAEs, incidentally, look 
like the team to beat if they are to 
be stopped from winning the cham
pionship. In the second game, the 
Continued on page 5
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 v 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Tartans Dropped By 
Westminster, 69-54 
As Joe Kelly Stars
The Carnegie Tartans met the 
Towering Titans of Westminster 
Saturday night, and when the smoke 
had cleared Westminster was on 
the long end of a 69-54 count. The 
free scoring battle was played at 
the victors home court in New Wil
mington before a wild-eyed crowd 
which witnessed a great individual 
duel between Noble Jorgenson, 
The Tallest of the Titans, and 
Tech forward Joe Kelly. Kelly, 
flashing the greatest form of his 
college career, ripped the cords for 
a total of 30 points, while Jorgen
son was not far behind with 21.
Tech jumped to an early 5-2 lead 
at the start of the game, but after 
they had got their bearings the Ti
tans were not to be denied and soon 
pulled ahead, holding the lead for 
the rest of the game. Westminster 
led at the end of the first quarter, 
20-11, at the end of the half, 37-25. 
The Blue and White then started 
the second half with nine straight 
markers before the Tartans could 
break the ice. The score at the end 
of the third canto read Westmin
ster 58, Tech 38.
Carnegie rallied in the last quar
ter to score 16 points to the victors 
11, but Kelly was banished on fouls 
with five minutes remaining and 
with him went the Tartans hopes. 
Joe with his 30 point total, only 
four short of a Carnegie record, led 
all scorers for the evening, with Jor
gensons 21 a close second. Paine 
and Captain Bennett of Westmin
ster, and Johnny Shott of Tech also 
had their fingers in the scoring pie 
with Paine racking up 15 points 
and the other two 12 each. Jor
gensons 21 coming on the heels of 
his 30 point orgy against Pitt last 
week, firmly entrenched the gan
gling center at the head of the dis
trict individual scoring parade. The 
expert guarding of Shott, however, 
prevented him from scoring even 
more.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COISES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
THE GRANDSTAND
By Walt Ellman, Sports Editor
Carnegies Athletic Future
At a time when schools are looking forward to postwar plans we 
believe that Carnegie should consider the role that intercollegiate athletics 
are going to play in this schools future program. As we see it there are 
three possible solutions to the problem of what to do with college sports 
at Tech. These are: subsidization in an all-out attempt to build power
house teams, one hundred per ^cent simon-pure teams pitted against other 
class B aggregations, and complete cessation of all intercollegiate athletics 
and replacement of them by a more extensive intramural program.
Some seven or eight years ago Carnegie decided to adopt the first 
mentioned plan: subsidization of athletes. The alumni donated funds from 
which were given the so-called Steffan Scholarships. Almost immediate
ly Techs athletic stock shot sky high. Star football professionals were 
brought in and a star-studded football team in 1938 beat Pitt, Duquesne, 
and Holy Cross, won the Lambert Trophy which issymbolic of Eastern 
football supremacy, and got a Sugar Bowl bid. That team was a power
house eleven, rated as one of the best in the country. And yet, despite the 
views of athletic idealists, that team would not have been possible without 
athletic scholarships. '
Carnegie was on the top of the Eastern football heap in 1938, but th 
only place you can go when youre on top is down and the Tartans descend 
was rapid. They still had many scholarship men in 1939, but they only 
won three out of eight games. Still, they were good. Before sixty thousand 
at the Stadium, they lost to Notre Dame by one point and it took a last 
minute pass to beat them in the Pitt game. Thus, despite the poor record 
they were still near the top. Then the roof caved in. For some reason the 
alumni let the Steffan scholarships run out, and Techs football teams be
came simon-pure. But the schedule was still big time with Notre Dame, 
Pitt, Duquesne, Holy Cross. The results began to be tragic: Notre Dame 
walloped us 61-0 in 1940. That and other defeats proved that to play a 
schedule studded with subsidized teams, it is necessary to subsidize your 
team, or else prepare for some lickings.
After the experiences with big-time schedules and a small-time team, 
Carnegie adopted the wisest possible program under the existing circum
stances. They scheduled, with the exception of Pitt, only those teams 
which were in their class. Westminster, Geneva, Case, Muhlenberg, and 
Albright appeared on the Tartan football card. The de-emphasis of ath
letics was almost complete when war came and since Tech has no Navy 
trainees to play intercollegiate sports, we could do nothing but field any 
team we could possibly put together. The results of the past year, however, 
can be thrown out when considering Techs athletic records. Its pretty 
hard to get excited about a football or basketball score when the papers 
tell of Jap tortures and other war realities.
That brings us up to date. We have de-emphasized sports to the 
point where Carnegie is definitely a class B school in the sports world. Now 
what about the future? We can continue on our present program of de* 
emphasizis, playing only schools with amateur teams and not expecting 
national sports recognition; we can cancel sports altogether and turn al 
our existing facilities over to a bigger and better intramural program; o 
we can go back into the market for professional athletes and try to rebuild 
our powerhouse teams of the past. It is hard to see what possible advan
tages could be gained by canceling all intercollegiate competition. Whether 
or not we begin to subsidize athletes again is not for this column to decide. 
It depends upon the alumni budget, and the principles of the school ad 
ministration. If Carnegie decides it is wrong for a college to use profes
sional athletes, then let us continue playing class B schedules. If we sub
sidize, then lets build the biggest and best team we can. But whatever 
we do, lets be consistent: either a big-time team with a big-time schedule 
or a small-time team competing against others in its class.
DAY OR NIGHT 
NIGHT OR DAY
THE COFFEE SHOP
is ready to serve you a cold snack, a 
hot lunch, or a substantial meal.
EXCELLENT FOOD
MODERATE PRICES
Tech Service Men Especially Welcome
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
Opposite Mellon Institute
Basketball Calendar
Wed.W&J vs. Carnegie, at ] 
home, 8:30 P.M.
Sat.Case vs. Carnegie, at home,| 
8:30 P.M.
GET HEPPED
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS
ATMAJESTIC
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldf.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Change To Trimesters . . .
Continued From Page 1 
Option II 
Trimester I
Courses Units
Physics .................................................. 9
Mathematics ................................ 9
Social Relations ............................ 9
Mechanics ........'................................... 9
Drawing .................................................12
Physical Training or........................... 3
R. O. T. C............................................... 3
Total .......................................................51
Trimester II 
Courses Units
Mathematics ......................................... 9
Social Relations ........................................... 9
Mechanics ............................................ 9
Chemistry ............................................ 9
Surveying ............................................ 6
Elem. f Mech. Eng..............................12
Elem. of Elect. Eng ........................... 9
Physics or Mathematics .................... 9
Physical Training or ......................... 3
R. O. T. C...............................................3
Total ..........................................48 or 51
Students in Mathematics or Phys
ics may elect to take other courses 
which are available in place of 
drawing during trimester I.
The Social Relations offered will 
be a modified version of the Soph
omore Social Relations now in op
eration. The mathematics in all 
sophomore courses will be modified 
to fit in with the basic mathematics 
courses given in the AST program. 
No change is anticipated in the new 
set-up, but, if changes are intro
duced, they will be only of a minor 
nature.
New ASTs . . .
Continued from page 1 
very swell place. We also learned 
from Pvt. Reil that City College 
could boast of only six girls and 
that in this line the Tech campus is 
certainly an improvement. At the 
reception which all the Army seem
ed to thoroughly enjoy, they were 
introduced to the faculty members 
who will teach them here and to 
other Carnegie personalities of note. 
Dean Yon, Dean Murphy, Captain 
Pickrel, Mr. Davis, and many other 
faculty members made the boys 
welcome. After the formalities were* 
dispensed with the boys had fun 
dancing, singing, eating the cookies, 
coffee and ice cream served and just 
generally getting acquainted.
Maintain Your Average
University Recreation
On Craig off Forbes
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
Restoration Comedy 
To Be Presented By 
Drama Department
The Way of the World by William 
Congreve will open in the Little 
Theatre on Thursday, February 10. 
The show will run through the 18th 
with two Friday matinees on the 
11th and 18th. No tickets are nec
essary for the matinees which will 
begin at 3:30 p. m.
Miss Mary Morris is directing the 
current production of the Drama 
Department. Richard Hare is doing 
the settings for the play, which will 
be staged somewhat in the style of 
the period with footlights and paint
ed drops. Wigs and the beautiful, 
elaborate costumes of the period are 
being used; the students in the de
partments are making the costumes.
The Way of the World is a grace
ful, witty, glittering Restoration 
Comedy; it is a totally unnatural, 
play with the unmoral and sophis
ticated attitude of the court of 
Charles II. These Restoration Com
edies were written for the rather 
easy-living and licientious court 
where brilliancy and wit and style 
were the aim and end of life. A 
play-goer must have a detached 
point-of-view to enjoy this comedy, 
for it cannot be judged by compar
ing it with real life.
This is about the most difficult 
kind of play for student actors to do 
because it is highly stylized and re
quires great technical skill.
IRC Meeting
There will be a special Bring a 
Friend Dinner Meeting of the In
ternational Relations Club today. A 
discussion of Work Relief will be 
held in Room 104 MMCC at four 
oclock from which the organization 
will adjourn to the Grill for a pure
ly social get-together at 5:00.
Glee Club
The Mens Glee Club urgently 
needs singers of all types. If you 
can carry a tune without a pack 
board, and if your voice isnt chang
ing, come out. Meetings are Mon
day and Wednesday nights from 
five until six.
Former ASTP Trainees 
Scattered Over Land
Many third term A. S. T. P. men 
have just left for various parts of 
the country after completing nine 
months of training at Carnegie 
Tech. Although the number of men 
that went to the various camps can
not be listed, these are the camps: 
Camp Campbell, Kentucky; Camp 
Shelby, Mississippi; Camp Yuma, 
Arizona; Camp McCain, Mississippi; 
Camp Sucker, Alabama; Fort Bragg, 
North Carolina; Camp Crowder, 
Missouri. Some men who are going 
for advanced or specialized train
ing went to one of the following 
schools: A.A.F. Technical School, 
Madison, Wis.; University of Penn
sylvania, or University of Tennes
see. The pre-professional men went 
to the University of Syracuse.
The first group of the engineering 
ROTC boys is now at Fort Bellvoir, 
Virginia. All the signal Corps is at 
Fort Monmouth, Virginia, at the 
present time. Both these camps are 
reserve pools for Officers Candidate 
School frOm which the men are ex
pected to be drawn within the next 
few weeks for further training.
Ex-Sarge Evans Back 
At Carnegie As Capt.
With the current influx of new 
names and faces on campus it really 
is a treat to welcome back an old 
time Carnegie man, Captain Wal
ter Evans.
Now celebrating his thirty-fifth 
year in the Army, Captain Evans 
served as Chief Clerk in the Car
negie ROTC from 1921 to 1939. 
Though the latter year marked his 
retirement he was recalled to active 
duty soon after our entry into war. 
First assigned as Adjutant to the 
1303rd Service Command at the Re
ception Center in Camp Lee, Vir
ginia, he was soon transferred to 
the Third Service Command in Bal
timore, Maryland.
Though he has lived in Washing
ton for the past twenty-five years, 
Captain Evans says he came home 
when he was once more assigned to 
Carnegie Tech last week. Now servDept. Gives Recital
A recital will be given by the 
students of the Department of 
Music in the Exhibition Room, Col
lege of Fine Arts on Sunday, Febru
ary 13, 1944 at 8:15 P. M.
The program is as follows:
Sonata in E minor for Cello and
Piano ................................. Brahms
Allegro ma non troppo 
Allegretto quasi menuetto 
Allegro
Eugene Eicher and James Hunter 
Piano Concerto in D minor (K.
466) ..................................... Mozart
Allegro
Romanze
Rondo
Carol Myers 
Second pianoMr. Janson 
Trio for Piano, Violin and Cello,
Op. 1, No. 3.................Beethoven
Allegro con brio
Andante cantabile con Variazioni
Menuetto: Quasi allegro 
Finale: Prestissimo
Imogene Grove, Piano 
Fabo Cuccagna, Violin
H. Burton Dines, Cello
Intramurals . . .
Continued from page4 
Theta Xis, smarting from the de
feat inflicted upon them by the Tau 
Delts, downed the DU five 21-15.
Finishing out the week were the 
Beta-DU, and Delt-Citcom games. 
The DUs proved to be easy victims 
for the strong Betas who won by a 
28-4 score. In the night cap, the 
Delts outscored Citcom to win 19-16. 
League Standings are as follows:
Team Won Lost
Delta Tau Delta ................. 2 0
Tau Delta Phi ................... 2 0
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........ 1 0
Beta Theta Pi ................... 2 1
Beta Sigma VRho ................ 1 1
Kappa Sigma ..................... 1 1
Theta Xi ............................... 1 1
Delta Upsilon .................... 0 2
Citcom ................................... 0 2
ing as Assistant Professor of Mili
tary Science and Tactics for the 
ROTC, Captain Evans admits that 
It really feels great to be back at 
dear old Tech.
Have a Coke = Sag ol
(LONG LIFE TO YOU)
...or how totreata Turkish visitor
Turk and Texan alike respond to the ring of good fellowship in 
the friendly phrase Have a Coke". You get the same response when 
you serve Coca-Cola from your icebox at home. The world over, 
Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,has become the 
gracious way to get acquainted.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTSBURGH, PA
= Coca-Cola
It* natural fot popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tion*. Thats why you heat 
Coca-Cola called Coke.
, ' . . V - 

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTNTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1944
fflxt Camelie plaid
Maggie Murph is Hostess For 
Valentine Party, Sat., Feb. 12
Things to Think About
Sci&ntifcc. ileieancU
The great industrial revolution, 
which took place in the eighteenth 
century, marked the beginning of 
active research in all scientific fields. 
As Newtons three fundamental 
laws of mass and motion were the 
cornerstones of scientific knowledge 
upon which all mechanical princi
ples were based, so then the patent 
laws of our government, in protect
ing and recognizing the rights of in
ventors, certainly were helpful in
struments in our industrial and sci
entific expansion, providing as they 
did an incentive to individuals to 
seek new and better methods of do
ing things. Every action, every in
vestigation was done by individuals 
who pressed to their goal unrelentlessly, unconscious of their own suf
fering and hunger and filled only 
with the thoughts of success in their 
economic of scientific struggles. It 
was not uncommon for men to de
vote a lifetime perfecting a new 
process or idea.
How differently research is car
ried on today! Great industrial con
cerns and trusts, all havin'* their 
own staffs of scientists, skilled in 
their respective fields, pursue def
inite goals in their research work. 
No longer is it an individual un
dertaking, set up in some haphaz
ard fashion; it is instead a great 
businesslike organization, very 
closely connected with the aims of 
the company. Thus research has 
lost all traces of individuality, for 
today the patents are taken out by 
the patent company, to be used and 
exploited as it desires.0 The great 
drug concern, Merck & Co., spent 
approximately $500,000 in obtaining 
the new drug sulfathiazole. No in
dividual could possibly expend such 
a great amount of money with only 
the hope of getting a return if suc
cessful. One large manufacturing 
concern, the Westinghouse Electric
& Manufacturing Company, has a 
research department which costs 
several million dollars a year to op
erate. It has numerous specialists 
in each of its departments; namely, 
Electronics, Metallurgical, Insula
tion, Magnetic, Mechanics, ElectroMechanics, Electro-Physics, Plas
tics, and Thermo-dynamics. All of 
their activities are closely correlat
ed for maximum efficiency. Thus, 
we can readily understand why we 
must in the future look forward to 
the development of large concerns 
for improvements in our industrial 
and social economics.
Letter To The Editor
While reading the Social Calen
dar I noticed that a swimming party 
is scheduled for Saturday, March 4,
1944. Ive heard some rumors that 
this affair might be cancelled. To 
my way of thinking, that would be 
a drastic mistake as, although the 
students havent been showing the 
usual amount of interest in the so
cial activities held for their benefit,
I think that this type of an affair 
would appeal to an entirely differ
ent group of students who might not 
care for dances and parties. To these 
students, I think Student Council 
has an obligation which they should 
fulfill by having a swimming party.
(This is the second in a series of arti
cles discussing the decline of registration 
in the evening school).
In considering registration figures 
and the causes for the dropping off 
of students, the first question would 
be the possible source of student 
supply. Immediately the City of 
Pittsburgh looms large as a con
tributor. The next area would be 
the metropolitan district which in
cludes Allegheny County. Extend
ing beyond Allegheny County 
would be the adjoining counties of 
the district reaching into the states 
of Ohio and West Virginia. All of 
these districts supply students for 
the evening classes at Carnegie 
Tech, and all of those who register 
for these classes become commuters. 
They have to return from classes so 
as to be on hand for work the next 
day. What has happened to this 
reservoir of student material?
In arriving at any reasonable an
swer the first item of consideration 
would be World War II and this one 
factor overshadows all other. The 
magnitude of the demands made by 
the war transcends any conceivable 
idea of proportion. To supply the 
war demands means that every in
dividual must contribute in some 
measure. If we consider the armed 
forces we are confronted with the 
problem of manpower supply, 
we consider the equipment and im
plements of war we are again con
fronted with the problem of man
power. This means that double de
mand is made upon the manpowe 
supply.
How does this effect registration? 
When the manpower is called to the 
service it means that just that many 
students have left the district and 
cannot attend classes. To supply the 
armed forces means that industry, 
will have to speed up production 
and here again the student status is 
affected because the working sched
ules in the plants demand more 
manhours and less time for classes. 
The shifts at the plants are such 
that attendance at classes is im
possible.
The next phase to consider is that 
of shifting, and there has been con
siderable of this. Former students 
and prospective students alike have 
gone to another district to engage 
in the war effort and, while there 
has been an influx of manpower in 
this district, not all of these new
comers are disposed or inclined to 
attend evening classes. They can
not be blamed too much for this sit
uation. They would be prevented 
from attending because of various 
reasons such as working conditions, 
suitable schedules, classes and 
courses of study offered, suitable ar
rangement for travel to and from 
campus, attendance habit at evening 
sessions, and proper arrangements 
for study period at the expense of 
other activities. All of these and 
many other factors tend toward de
pleting the registration. Thus we 
have the dropping off of students 
to such low figures.
 * * ;no
noX ua;qgiBj;s XL3M PUB aiuoo uuinjoo uMop apisdn siq; SuipBaj ja;jB dn paxiui ax;;l b jo pappap -un ns 3J,no ji ifB;uappui puy spuaijj iu xie guijq o; Suiog uij 
puB hbh uoi;Bajoa[ uosijjo]/\[ ;ajB -jbj\[ ;b ;iBd siq; oj auioo o; Sui 
-o uij *q;gx tonjqaj "ft j 0:8 ;b Suxop UIJ }BqAV avouai X ipm.jfooq duiB;s jbav ;Bq; dn Xm ubo no jibjjb siq; uo aABS no 
no auoui aq; q;iM q)M suoi;Buop 
ou  suoipaxioo ou aoHVHD ON 
puB siq; nV lsn PUV 'no^
OCO auo Mau F st;Bq; ;aq XIJ HLNFO85 aq; qo;BAV pus aouBQ ;jBajj ua^ojg,, aq; aouBQ poqjaAa naMYOCO s;uauiqsajjaj puB guiAox-unj aq; OCO sauiB sa qo puy ^UBjd asuajap ;Bq; ui ,OC3E OC PFB pjBq F ja;jB 8ui;jix paau squids asoqAv asoq; 
OCO ;uauiuiB;ja;ua xBjaj o; *LFD oqM asoq; OCO sjisqa ajqB;jojuioo 
sjadda;s aq; OCO SupuBp aq H^Jaqx jiBjjB siq; OCO dn pauq aABq aAV 
sguiq; aq; xiB o; ua;six ;snC XqM.
inoduiBT aqj,,, ^B|d jno qojBAV noX 5F ja;qgnB| q;iM 1LNOFCO jiBqo axqB;joj -moo F ui Suivis Xq UBq; 9FOCO no 
pjnoD BAV ja;;aq ;Bq^. no^ I 43EC,M -^ooq ui;saja;ui LF LN passojS -ua ajy aq; jo *LCOO LN JiBqo XsBa 9*NOC3FO jnoX ui dn pajjno auioq *F uiuaAa ;amb F puads o; guiuuBxd 9JB pus paji; aj(noj^ aas j qo* ajiX Jaq jo aun; aq; aABq xi^Ms aa;uBJBn j -guojB jaq Suijg ja; -;aq aq; qonui og F aABq no
S UqSp HV "jaAvsuB LF s,ajaq; uoi;sanb F s,ajaq; ajaqM xjaAY dn pauq a;Bp F OC suBjd jaq;o aABq 
noX BS noX pino^vv uoi;sanb F qons q;iM pa;uojjuoo uaqM iF5 no 
pnoM ;nqAV uosBas aq; jo 7;uaAa sa;B3J aq; o; Suirnoo ;(uajaM no qM 5s5F puB no o; dn ixoj;s pjnoqs 
3Ai;B;uasajdaj aa;;iuiuioo I^pos 
F ON W3Nn no pjnoAV U0SB3J ;Bq^vv 
3;nuiui F jspisuoa puB do;s ;snf
3UI0D xiH s,;3q 4LNF3 
LN *chWeW. 5*OCOO3 uiJi;un jpq; 
Moqs sjsq *uAvop uisq; ;3x *cLCD 
W3t uisq; Moqs st;3x JoqB| sssjpus 
jisq; jo uoi;Bp3jddB ux 'sssoons 
3;3Xduioo F P*OFO WLN*LW,F3 1LNLNC8 
sq; 35MFLN o; s;jojj3 Jisq; ui psuin; 
-un Suiq; F ;j3x ;,usBq 33;;iuiuioo 
XBpog 3q; ;Bq; joojd Xjduns s^x 
;xnBj s,j3;uijd sq; ;tusi siqx o^
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4610 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor 
Joseph Rymar 
Photographer
George Riffle
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Staff
Elmer Dcima William E. KuskieAlbert C. Flanders Thelma LifshitzJohn Hundertmark Joseph E. LucherThelma Kitchen S. W. MarcmizynDorothy Papa Arlene McMurrayCaroline Noll_______________________Mary DeMaria
The Editor Edits
In the history of our country, 
there exist no words as cant or 
cannot.
It was not cannot which 
prompted the discovery of this land, 
or faced the perils of the otean 
crossing which brought to this land 
our forefathers.
It was not cannot which braved 
the Indians and nature, and wrested, 
despite then unsurmountable odds, 
the tilled lands and vast cities we 
find here today.
No, it was not cannot which 
subdued those forests and prepared 
the land for cultivation and erected 
those cities. It was, instead, a will 
to win.
It was not cannot which won 
our freedom and has maintained our 
freedom by winning wars, as, God 
willing, we shall win this one!
Instead it was the determination 
to winto doto find a wayto 
createto make things work.
Therefore, I wonder why the 
Tartan staff couldnt find a justifia
ble solution in their dilemma of the 
January 25 issue.. Certainly, they 
had no right to slaughter the Plaid 
page, because, by agreement, the 
page should remain intact when 
once made up.
* However, in their haste to remedy 
matters, the Tartan staff committed 
a far \vorse sin than just wrecking 
the Plaid page by placing the huge 
Coca-Cola ad on it, for this ad that 
keeps the Tartan out of the red 
comes via the National Advertisers 
whose contract specifically states 
that the ad should never be placed 
on the last page but on the inside, 
preferably opposite the editorial 
page, just as it did last week.
Engineers Banquet?
The Officers of the College of En
gineering have begun to formulate 
plans for their 29th Annual Engi
neers Banquet. This is a stag affair 
and promises to be in keeping with 
quality of past affairs and at the 
same time highlighting this seasons 
social program. This time it is 
planned to have a full course dinner 
instead of cold cuts as last year. 
Tentative date for this affair is Sat
urday, March 25, 1944.
Those students wishing to serve 
on the social committee for this af
fair should contact Joseph Rymar, 
President of College of Engineering,
C.I.T., Box 353.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA'S MOST COM
PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
