The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 3, September 25, 1984.
yert interviewed on SEI proposal
As stated in The Tartan two weeks ago, 
CMU is bidding against some other universities 
for a Department of Defense (DOD) project 
that would bring a $103 million Software 
Engineering Institute to CMU and Pittsburgh.
Recently, Eric S. Gold, Tartan Staff writer, 
interviewed CMU President Richard M. Cyert 
about the SEI and his general plans for the
future of computers at CMU.
Tartan: Will the students have any type 
of involvement with the SEI?
Cyert: Well, I would assume it would be a 
good place for part-time employment and 
possibly summer employment for the 
students...
Tartan: What type of research would the
m
: mi
*y JILL RUDISILL
far I on Staff writer 
The Student Senate invited prospective 
-85 school year senators to attend a 
Senate meeting and reception Tuesday night 
an attempt to fill vacant Senate seats. 
Each present Senator took time to des
cribe the power he/she holds and the
Jn this issue
lews
^ahr appointed............................page 3
,reek report...............................page 67
features
?imon speaks.................................page 9
fr'ce of education......................page 11
Entertainment
Words Trilogy............................page 13
ltlegging.....................................page 13
[Ports
^rtans over JCU ........................page 15
joccer splits...................................page 14
[ditorial
fs/them block...............................page 18
responsibilities that go along with it. 
Regular business was also on the agenda.
The Karate and Games Club both received 
funded recognition. On Thursday, Sep
tember 27, a press conference will be held 
for all newly recognized clubs. The Senate 
will award money to new and old clubs. The 
reason for this years five dollar increase in 
the Student Activities Fee was to provide 
funding for more clubs.
A wide range of conversations took place 
during the hour long session. Disappoint
ment with homecoming festivities was 
voiced. The number of events is not as sub
stantial as in years past. There will be a 
bonfire for students in addition to the foot
ball game, but the traditional ox roast will 
not take place. Instead, there will be roast 
beef sandwiches on the cut. SARC (Student 
Alumni Relations Council) has reserved all 
of Skibo for alumni festivities, so no activi
ties, such as a dance, have been planned. 
However, Dean Lois Cox said that there is a 
chance the money allocated for the citycancelled fireworks might be used for some
thing else, possibly a corn roast.
Debate over an amendment in the 
continued on page 2
SEI be doing exactly?
Cyert: I think the institute is going to be 
software oriented. A large amount of the 
work will be what is called "technology 
transfer, where the institute will be screen
ing and evaluating programs, many of which 
have developed in the civilian sector. The 
DOD has got the same problem that 
Carnegie-Mellon does. For example, in the 
statistics area there are a whole series of 
statistical (software] packages. Which one 
should we buy and have on our computer? 
Well, we don't know. So we have been rely
ing on our statistics department... to evaluate these packages and make a 
recommendation.
Tartan: What connection would the pro
posed Software Engineering Institue have 
with Carnegie-Mellon University?
Cyert: Carnegie-Mellon would be a man
ager of the institute. It would have the same 
relationship to the institute that CalTech 
has to the Jet Propulsion Lab...
The persons in the institute would not be 
faculty members. Any faculty members who 
would be working there would either be 
faculty members who were on leave from 
CMU or who were functioning as consul
tants. Now it does not mean that we would 
not use some of the people in the institute as 
adjunct faculty members; but when they are 
functioning in the institute they are func
tioning as employees of the DOD, not having 
any relationship to Carnegie-Mellon.
Carnegie-Mellon has had...a very strict
policy against taking any classified research. 
We do not allow any classified research in 
the university. Therefore, we could not have 
this institute as a part of the university 
because I suspect at least there will be some 
classified research there.
So, it is an independent unit which we 
would be managing. However, we think hav
ing that unit in Pittsburgh and close to 
Carnegie-Mellon University would be a tre
mendous help to the university.
Tartan: WTiat short term and long term 
rewards do you see for the university and the 
city of Pittsburgh?
Cyert: Well, the big one for the univer
sity is getting a lot of outstanding people in 
software. This kind of institute will attract 
leading computer scientists interested in 
software development. That will mean that 
our computer science department, undoubt
edly, by having this institute here, will be 
able to attract people into the department 
because of the proximity of the institute...
...I think that for the community as a 
whole it will be a boom. Pittsburgh has to 
remake its economy to make up for some of 
the reduction in employment in the manu
facturing area. I see the SEI attracting a 
large number of other firms eventually. I 
think that it is going to take a ten-year period 
or so, it won't happen overnight, but, even
tually I think it could help make Pittsburgh 
the software center of the country and pro
vide a tremendous number of new jobs...
continued on page 9
Lilley organizes student 
retreat, looks to future
... .......I
photo by Lesley Brunker
)r. Richard M. Cyert being interviewed by WRCT News Director Wayne Mesard 
^nd another staff member.
tudent Senate attracts new 
members, discusses funding
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Thirteen CMU Student Senate members 
and Advisor Dr. Ed Lilley participated in a 
Student Senate Retreat in September. Lil-, 
ley, Assistant to the Dean in charge of spe
cial projects, advised and coordinated the 
event at Antiochian, a rustic camp about six 
outside of Ligonier, Pa. Lilley designed the 
program/workshop to expose and create 
leadership skills, increase understanding 
and trust between Student Senators, and 
encourage self-discovery.
The event began with informal icebreak
ers to relax the participants and dissolve 
what Lilleydescribes as "false dignity, the 
mask hiding our real personality. "Students 
were sharing, risking, and being real, Lilley 
comments.
Formalized sessions emphasized commun
ication, problem solving, and brainstorming 
skills. Hypothetical problems provided 
training for some of the actual difficulties 
leaders often face. Other sessions focused on 
personality. In one activity students 'rainstormed qualities characteristic of demo
cratic leaders and tyrannical leaders. A 
comparison of the lists reveals the qualities, 
such as awareness and empathy, that are 
essential to effective and innovative 
leadership.
Many sessions were design! to emphas
ize the importance of trust and understand
ing between leaders. The gathering of 
diverse backgrounds and interests provoked 
students to find out more about their fellow 
Senators. "It was most exciting to see rap
port happening between CFA and Computer
Science people,Lilley reflected," It was one 
my biggest thrills to see it possible for people 
to understand and appreciate each others 
work. Students not only enthusiastically 
participated in formalized activities, they 
continued afterwards on a social level!
In one session titled "Fortune Teller, 
students pretended to "read each others 
personalities based on previous observations 
and a little fictionalization. Afterwards, stu
dents exchanged "fortunes and analyzed 
the accuracy of the predictions. This exer
cise made the Senators examine how their 
strengths and weaknesses are viewed by oth
ers. Lilley emphasizes the importance of a 
basic understanding of oneself, and others, 
in order to understand how one can be a 
good leader.
Lilley feels that the self-confidence, team
like spirit, and sense of awareness of skills 
and resources developed at the Antochian 
Retreat made the event a success. A second 
stage of workshops concentrating on lobby
ing skills and refined committee work are 
being planned for the Student Senate.
Similar retreats are planned for other stu
dent organizations. Within the next two* 
weeks, students will receive "a big, big 
chunk of information from Student Affairs 
about Class Qubs, a new program that 
creates a club for each class. "I believe it is 
everyones responsibility to look at leaders 
and where they take us and where todays 
leaders are being trained and taught, Lilley 
says. "Good leaders are an investment that 
speaks, rather shouts, of being humane, 
good-feeling people. On-campus training is a 
solid beginning.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
Meetings this week
Class dub concept becomes reality at CMU
Rv miZANNF i^RADmF.K chance to know their classmates. The coal of I.illev fp^ls that thic nmnram will Ke a Hintplv anH nnpp it ic nn itc willBy SUZANNE GRADISEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Ed Lilley, Assistant to the Dean of Stu
dent Affairs in charge of special programs, 
has been appointed head of the class club 
program. The purpose of the class clubs is to 
establish a sense of unity and belonging for 
the students with their fellow classmates.
Lilley feels tht due to the separate colleges 
at the Univeristy, the students dont get a
chance to know their classmates. The goal of 
the class club program is to find a crosssection of students who want to become 
involved and create activitities. Some of thje 
activities that the class club cluld possibly 
sponsor are: a prom, some types of public 
service, or even start some type of class 
tradition. Rumor has it that money might be 
given to the class clubs for activities that the 
University thinks are worthwhile.
Lilley feels that this program will be a 
success. Last years Junior class had a class 
organization on a smaller scale that went 
over well. The meetings of the clubs will be 
informal  a gathering of interested people 
to get together and have fun. Lilley forsees 
that each class club will take on a different 
personality because of the differences of age 
and experience between each class.
The class club program will start immeDean Braden Walter looks on at a recent Senate meeting.
photo by Josh Brodsky
diately and once it is on its feet it will seek 
official organization status. If you are inter
ested in joining your class club please go to 
Skibo Information Desk on the specified 
dates and ask what room the club is meeting. 
Meeting times:
The seniors met on Monday, Sept. 24 
at 4:00 pm. Go to the Skibo Information 
Desk for information on the next meeting 
time.
Juniors  Tuesday Sept. 25 at 4:00 pm.
Sophomores  Wednesday Sept. 26 at 
4:00 pm.
Freshmen  Thursday Sept. 27 at 4:00 
pm.Senatemeeting
continued from page 1
Senates constitution consumed much of the 
meeting. The amendment, "Only educa
tional, social, or cultural, not academic, 
organizations will be funded by Student 
Senate, was not satisfactory because there 
was disagreement over the wording. The 
amendment is important because without it, 
"academic/major supported clubs are 
being funded while being somewhat discrim* 
inatory. Faculty advisors would get ideas 
and soon every academics-based club would 
be running after the funding.
After the meeting, new students had the 
opportunity to meet and discuss issues with 
the Student Senators. About eight prospec
tive Senators were present, and they all 
seemed enthusiastic. All that is needed in 
order to qualify for a seat is collect 25 signa
tures from students in the respective college 
of the candidate.
ft
Brilliant Sophomores, Enthusiastic Juniors,
*coE
a0)
k.li.
0)>
<0Q
w.
o
We are about to form four class 
organizations! These groups will meet 
to conceive class projects or activities. 
(Take a teacher to lunch  plan a picnic 
 have a prom  rent a roller-rink  
public service  begin a tradition  
make a video  choose a motto  etc.) We are looking for people with ideas, energy, and a little time to get the 
process moving. Come in and sign up! 
Suggest the name of a friend. Call or see 
Ed Lilley in Student Affairs, x2075.
HELP!HELP!HELP!

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 3
Experienced appointee
David Klahr named head of Psychology Dept.
pnoio oy ^.nrisiopucr juuusiun
Dr. David Klahr has many expectations for Psychology.
By BONNIE JACOBSEN
Tartan StaffwrUer
Dr. David Klahr has been named head of 
the Psychology Department at CMU.
Klahr is familiar with CMU, having some 
I 15 years under his belt as a professor of 
"psychology. When the position of depart
ment head presented itself, Klahr was asked 
to fill *n an(^ eventually was offered a per*
| manent position.
Klahr has many expectations for his 
I department. One of the more fascinating 
I COncepts is the idea of computers as 
I teachers. Not only will the computer be able 
I to instruct, it will have the ability to show 
1 where the student is thinking wrong. He 
1 would like to see this system implemented 
1 here at CMU to increase the quality of learn| ing, as well as to free the faculty for the more 
| humane aspects of their jobs.
The department is also researching the 
cognitive processes behind being an expert. 
Are the minds of experts different from 
those of novices, or do they simplify fuction 
in a different way? Research is also being 
done on writing in psychology and how cer
tain writing techniques can aid the reader in 
enjoying a work.
Klahr s one point of contention, however, 
was the lack of adequate physical facilities. 
The university is aware, and is doing its best, 
though improvement is still necessary. 
Klahr points out, as a strong point, the 
amount of sharing and cooperation within 
the department. It is very much a group 
effort.
Pride is the key word. The Psychology 
Department has earned itself a fantastic rep
utation and the faculty and staff would like 
to see it continue to improve.
THE STUDENT SENATE
The meeting was called to order al 7:09 pm.
Present: Be, Bruno* Cohen, Corless, DeBroff, Duer, 
Goldstein, Pane, Rocher, Searing, Soler, Volan, Weller, 
McCormick, Salley, Nichols, Denburg, Nagel, Cox.
ira, Murray. Patula, Taylor (excused). 
Weaver, Williams, Frank, Waiter,V, - \
M inutes: Amended and approved.
Dean Waltert No report.
Dean Cox; Made an announcement concerning Physi
cal Plant. Physical Plant wants the opinions of students 
about how well their duties (maintenance, repairs, etc.) 
are fulfilled. Representatives are needed from dorms, 
fraternities, sororities, and Mudge.
President: Announced Senate meeting Thursday at 
3 30 in the Board Rooro-lntellectuai Property Policy to 
be discussed. Mentioned that there is no schedule for
ut rafting trip  there is a
homecoming announcements  
, andSARC activiChairraan: Announced phonathon  Board Room 
Warner Hall; alt Senators must be present. Secretary 
cleared folders from Senate office. Some members HI 
lose seats; reason: missing an important meeting (see 
list for members and vacancies  John has it).
Vice-Chair No report.
Treasurer: No report.
Rule: Announced dubs who wish recognition; vote 
on Karate Club funded status. Vote: PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY.
Vote on Game Board Club funded status  PASSED 
UNANIMOUSLY.
Press conference with The Tartan  recognition of 6 
clubs; meeting with students who wish to form a second 
(small) newspaper on Sept. 26. Vacancy petitions  
next meeting  due Sept. 20. Hillel non-funded recog
nition  Vote: PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.
Academic Affairs: Working on tutor of the week; 
working on problem with foreign TAs.
General Campus & Information: Write a few sentences about retreat.
Finance: Heard Thistle  reallocating funds; $416.00 
from office supplies minus $215.00 to purchase strobe 
equals $201.00 in the master account. Wants Senate to 
allocate not more than $230.00 to purchase 30 long 
sleeve T-shirts for all senators; rider-design to be 
approved by Peter Corless.
emu bookstoreIN BAKER HALL
THE ESSEX122 Meyran  Oakland 681-1944 
(corner Forbes 2nd floor)
Oakland's Department Store
 Bedspreads  Posters  Incense  Lanterns Candles  Window Blinds  Cards (sweet to risqu)  Essential Oils and Body Prodcuts by the Ounce  Beads  Baskets  Lightweight Furniture
 Backpacks
LewisCreative Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
682-4063
Mon. - Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
This new book is for the reader who is, or wants to become, a serious C 
programmer capable of engineering large and complex systems in C.
Beginning with an overview of the C language .and the environment in
which C programs are compiled and executed, the book:
 includes a complete description of the full language and of the 
variations in the language found in some C compilers.
 discusses many of the C programming conventions and styles that 
have arisen over the years.
 presents the language in a bottom-up order: the lexical structure, the 
preprocessor, declarations, types, expressions, statements, functions, 
and programs.
 contains references to descriptions of other relevant language features 
in each section.
 provides a large chapter on the standard C runtime library routines.
$19.95
cWeWaWrlW okinfiL
SAMUEL P HARBISON/GUY L. STEELE Jr.Tartan Laboratories

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
ACLD to hold fund raising 
tour of Beatty Mansion
photo by Christopher JohnstonKeith Moore, vice president for University Relations, has been instrumental in 
publishing The Fence Port., a new publication for "faculty and staff to share with 
one another their individual achievements.
By PRISCILLA BRIGGS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Allegheny County Chapter of the 
Association for Children and Adults with 
Learning Disabilities will be holding a fun
draiser on September 29 and 30. There will 
be tours of the Beatty Mansion from 10:00 
am to 4:00 pm on Saturday and from 11:00 
am to 4:00 pm on Sunday. Beatty Mansion is 
located at 5135 Ellsworth Ave. at Colonial 
Place in Shadyside. The tickets, which are 
$5.00, can be bought beforehand at the door.
The funds are being raised to benefit the 
Allegheny County Chapters Building Fund.
The National ACLD is an orgnization 
which is non-profit only in a monetary 
aspect. Many people have benefited from 
their various programs.
The goals of the ACLD are to "encourage 
research in neuro-psychological and psycho
logical aspects of learning disabilities, to 
stimulate development of early detection 
programs, to create a climate of public
awareness and acceptance, to disseminate 
information widely, to serve as an advocate, 
to develop and promote legislature assist
ance, to improve regular and special educa
tion, and to establish career opportunities.
The Allegheny County Chapter of the 
ACLD has received many grants to sponsor 
their services which include the Activity and 
Development Center, remedial classes, and 
their Development Program. The Activity 
and Development Center is a full-time pri
vate school on the elementary and secon
dary level for learning disabled students 
between the ages of six and twenty-one. Per
sons approved for placement in the local 
school district are admitted at no cost.
Remedial classes are offered in centers in 
and around Pittsburgh during the academic 
year, on Saturdays, and through July. The 
Adult Program is for people over 17 who are 
in need of job placement, high school equi
valency exams, or college remediation
courses.
SUCCESS
At ROLM, we believe there is no single way 
to be successful. Rather, we believe success stems from 
the creativity and ambition of the individual. 
That's why were committed to creating an environment 
in which motived people can succeed. The risk 
in this approach is high, but the rewards are greater.
ROLM. We create an atmosphere for success.
The rest is up to you.
WE'LL BE AT THE TECHNICAL OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4
We'd like to talk to all Computer Science and 
Electrical Engineering majors interested in 
working on one of our project teams in soft
ware areas such as voice and data communi
cations, distributed data base management, 
integrated voice-text applications, data, voice 
and network architecture, or Ada.
Or, you can talk with us about combining 
your hardware, software, and customer ori
ented skills in the areas of product support, 
production, field service or sales engineering.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, 
ROLM designs, manufactures and markets 
digital-controlled business communications 
systems, and the most advanced ruggedized 
computer systems in the world.
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: 
OCTOBER 25 & 26
Sign up with your Placement Office for an oncampus interview, or forward your resume 
and letter of interest to Vicky Anderson, Engi
neering Recruitment, M/S 350, 4900 Old 
Ironsides Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95054. 
Watch for posters announcing our campus 
presentations.
We are proud to be an equal opportunity/ 
affirmative action employer.

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 5
Well have the Times of Your LifeIN ONE HOUR
SUPERPHOTO
one hour developing
You Get Speed. Convenience, 
Kodak Paper, Your Film 
Never Leaves Our Store
Plus 10% OFF Color Prints(Discount Good Thru Oct 7
1824 MURRAY AVfNUE 
421-1444
Pittsburgh is our home Lets clean house!
Pittsburgh Clean City Committee. Inc
B'NAI B RITH HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Architecture dept, begins lecture series
The Department of Architecture at 
Carnegie-Mellon University will sponsor a 
lecture series at 7:45 pm, Tuesdays in 7500 
Wean Hall on campus.
The lectures, topics and dates are: Ewald 
Bubner, architecture professor at the Uni
versity of Esson, "Lightweight Construction 
in Architecture and Engineering, Sep
tember 25; Fred Dubin, visiting Andrew
Mellon professor at CMU, "Behind the 
Scenes: Architecture and Engineering Deci
sions, October 2; Pleasantine Drake, presi
dent, Architecture Diagnostics, Ottawa, 
"Buildings of the People, By the People, and 
For the People, October 9; Pierre Zoelly, 
visiting Andrew Mellon professor at CMU, 
"Cave, Vault and Dome: The Remaking of 
the Universe On and Under Ground,
October 16.
Also: Peter A.D. Mill, director, Architec
ture and Building Sciences Directorate,
Public Works Canada, "Total Building Per
formance Evaluation, October 23; Fritz 
Sulzer, senior associate, I.M. Pei &
Partners, "From Design to Realization,
November 6; Alfred McNeill, regional senior 
vice president, Turner Construction,
"Architecture and Construction,
November 13; and John Coe, landscape 
architecture professor at the University of 
Pennsylvania, and Jim Pashek, landscape 
architect with GWSM, Pittsburgh, "New 
Beginnings: Designing for the Wild at the 
Pittsburgh Zoo.
In addition, Dubin and Zoelly, both 
Andrew Mellon viviting professors and grad
uates of CMU, will continue their series of 
lectures.
Dubin, speaking under the general topic 
of "Integrated Engineering and Architec
ture, will deliver lectures at 5 pm, October 
15, October 29, November 12, November 26 
and December 3 in Porter Hall 100.
Locker registration begins
Dubin is president of Dubin-Bloome Asso
ciates, P.C. and a partner in Fred S. Dubin 
International in Rome. Some of his major 
design projects are the Salk Institute for 
Biological Studies; Phytotrons at Duke and 
North Carolina State universities; and the 
United Nations Environmental Headquar
ters, Nairobi, Kenya.
Zoelly will speak on "Praxis/Poetics at 7 
pm, October 16, October 19, October 26, 
November 28, November 30 and December 5 
in Wean Hall 7500.
A native of Switzerland, Zoelly has taught 
at Ohio State University for many years. His 
design works include the Chaux-de-Fonds 
Museum and the International Red Cross 
Museum in Geneva. Zoelly, who will use 
some of his own designs for discussion, has 
said, "My source of inspiration has been and 
always will be farm architecture, because I 
seem to find there an unending demonstra
tion of order, economy, craft and properly 
placed symbolism.
All Architecture Department lectures are 
open to the public without charge.
By ART ROBERTS
Special to the Tartan
This week A-PHI-0 will begin a program 
of locker registration for the use of lockers 
in the basements of Doherty and Porter 
halls. The locker registration has been 
approved by Student Affairs as a means for 
more equitable access to those lockers for 
students. The program will insure that only 
those that are entitled to locker space have 
access, no more than one locker is allowed 
per user, lockers are not abandoned without 
removal of locks and contents, and that 
returning users have the chance to renew 
their locker registration.
Last week notices were posted on all
lockers informing current users of the regis
tration rules and deadlines. A detachable 
registration form was included. Registration 
is now taking place at the APHIO table 
in Skibo, weekdays, and will continue until 
Friday, October 5. Thereafter forms will be 
accepted at the APHIO office, Room 
54, Skibo until October 19. A valid CMU ID 
must be presented for the registration form 
to be accepted. After this date all lockers 
with unauthorized users will have their 
locks cut and the contents removed. Such 
contents can be later claimed by the owner. 
Empty lockers will be available for general 
registration on a first-come, first-served 
basis after October 28.
MON.-THURS. 11:30 AM - 11 PM 
FRI. & SAT. 12 NOON - 12 MID. 
SUN. 1 PM - 11 PM
CONES 
SHAKES 
SUNDAES 
FLOATS 
ADDINSDAVE& ANDYHOMEMADE ICE CREAM
HAND PACKED PINTS & QUARTS 
207 Atwood St - in the heart of Oakland - 681-9906
RECEPTION FOR JEWISH NEW YEAR 
Given by Israeli and Jewish students 
All are welcome! 
Tuesday, Sept. 25th at 5:30 pm CMU Hillel House
Haramot Hakosit 133 Mar3aret Morrisn StreetCOUPON

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
Greek events and Issues
Existence of Greeks on campus examined
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
"The Trustees performed euthanasia 
when they withdrew recognition from our 
fraternities, said Dean Earl Smith of Colby 
College, a school, like Amherst College, 
which has banned fraternities from campus.
At CMU, both ATO and ZBT have 
recently served one-year suspensions for 
disciplinary infractions.
Last week Braden Walter, dean of Student 
Affairs, ordered all Pi Lamda Phi rush 
events to be conducted in the absence of 
alcohol for ten days after considering a 
recommendation from InterFraternity 
Council (IFC). Hard alcohol was alleged to 
have been served at Pi Lamda Phi during an 
earlier Rush event. Some of the same frater
nities were involved in raising thousands of 
dollars for charities last year.
The question of Greek existence has been 
raised nationwide. The reaction to such a 
query has been mixed at CMU. A number of 
students, including a former editor of The 
Tartan and a former Student Senator, have 
denounced the Greek system in Pittsburgh 
newspapers and the CMU computer 
network.
The reasons for such criticism are numer
ous. Smith asserted Colby fraternities had 
financial difficulties, occurences of sexual 
misconduct, hazing and wild parties. "We 
had no way of managing conduct as we saw 
necessary, said Smith.
But perhaps the biggest complaint of 
Smith and Terry Allen, news director at 
Amherst, was sexual discrimination. "There 
has been a lot of divisiveness at Amherst 
since the introduction of women at Amherst 
ten years ago.
Smith adds the other fraternity problems 
at Amherst could have possibly heen over
come, but the problem of "equal access 
would have remained.
Many members of CMU's administration, 
including President Richard Cyert, Vice 
President Patrick Crecine and Walter have 
publicly supported the Greek system, stress
ing personal development in their praise.
According to Greek Advisor Jay Caison,
"CMU provides career planning. The 
emphasis is not on social development 
except in fraternity life.
Bob Fishel, president of IFC, and Sue 
Mahler, second Vice President of Panhel (an 
organization consisting of members from all 
five sororities on campus), point to unity, 
leadership, working together and friendship 
as strong points of Greeks at Colby and 
Amherst dont apply to CMU.
However, the question has been raised at 
CMU nonetheless. "With all the attention 
alcohol has received, said Fishel, "people 
have turned toward the administration of 
CMU saying 'What are you going to do about 
it? 
Student Affairs has responded by requir
ing half of fraternity Rush events to be con
ducted in the absence of alcohol. Carson 
said," Students have begun to realize that 
they can have fun without drinking, and 
they've become sensitized to drink 
responsibly.
After initial opposition, most students 
have also reacted positively to the stipula
tion. "I really enjoy going to a fraternity 
without seeing a beer in everyone's hand, 
said Mauler.
Fishel sees the drinking issue in much 
broader perspective. He feels the whole 
society of the 1980's, including CMU 
Greeks, is more aware of the dangers of 
alcohol.
Despite all the positives, some still chal
lenge the existence of Greeks at CMU. As far 
as sororities go, Mahler thinks such malice 
may come from a perception that sororities 
are exclusive organizations. For instance, 
the five sororities on campus were allowed 
no more than 50 combined new members 
this fall. The rule, called ceiling, is a method 
used by Panhel to prevent one sorority from 
out-competing another.
Julie Grant, president of Panhel, finds 
ceiling not an exclusive theory. "Everyone 
wanting to Rush this year got a bid (an offer 
to pledge a sorority).
Fishel feels part of the negative percep
tion is that anyone "can walk into the frater
nity quadrangle and see a party any weekend
of the year. So they could get tne impression projects 
that all we do is party.
Fishel points out that fraternities average 
one party every 21 days. Many other days 
are spent working on community service
photo by Heather McCarty
said Fishel.
So the question of Greeks remaining on 
campuses across the United States con
tinues to be asked. But if the CMU adminis
tration position remains the same, Greeks 
will stay at CMU, at least for now.
Sorority rush reaps new members, 58 pledge
By AMY MILLER
Tartan Stnffur iter
The five CMU sororities received 58 new 
pledges as a result of Fall Panhellenic Rush, 
1984.
An ice cream social on Sunday, Sept. 2 
followed by a "Round Robin on Tuesday
were the first two events. After these, there 
were five parties; between the parties 
rushees could drop any house they felt they 
did not want to join. On bid day Sept. 15, the 
rushees went into the office of Student 
Affairs to sign their bid cards.
Each house could bid up to 20girls to have
no more than 50 sisters and pledges. Panhel 
Rush Chairman Annette Golding com
mented, "Rush went really fast but really 
well, its giving houses as chance to grow.
Rush counselor Jean Geiger noted the dif
ficulty in scheduling rush so that it doesnt 
interfere with classwork. Geiger observed, 
"Were definitely a more academic school 
than most who have Panhel Rush, and I 
think freshmen are worried about having 
enough time for schoolwork.
Some of the rushees thought that the 
present system doesnt allow the girls 
enough time to get to know each other. 
Kappa Alpha Theta pledge Mary Jo Olsavsky 
noted, "Its too fast. Another Theta pledge, 
Sue Cheskes, commented, "Its too early. 
Delta Gamma pledge De Anna Dhouti said, 
"It was a lot of fun, because we got to meet 
people.
All of the Rush chairmen from the indi
vidual sororities were positive about the 
experience. Chrissy DeLoughery of Chi 
Omega remarked, "I think the houses are a 
lot closer since rush. Sarah Chantry of 
Delta Gamma concluded, "Were really 
happy with our pledge class.
Chi Omega: Kara Bergland, Karen Birkebile, Jacqueline Fischer, Hilary Fitch, 
Yvonne Marsh, Helene Newburg, Michelle 
Sakamoto, Holly Winters.
Delta Delta Delta: Melissa Anderson, 
Phyllis Domash, Stephanie George, Debbie 
Hui, Cherie Jagerski, Darla Messick, Esty 
Pujadas, Zethma Robeim, Suzanne Shelkopf, Jennifer Toth, Deanna Waitzl, Lisa 
Wedder, Maryjo White, Allison Goldberg, 
Molly Moritz, Sandra Niebla.
Delta Gamma: Jennifer McCabe, Leslie 
Shaw, De Anna Dhouti, Shari Heilman,Cns 
McCarthy, Tina Kuo, Tina Mazzacheti, 
Jackie Piscequetello, Maggie LarezoSi 
Carolyn Kirr.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Cathi Breza, Chris 
Ceva, Susan Cheskes, Seana Chun, Suzann$r 
Gradisek, Elizabeth Klein, Patti Ann Lassie 
ger, Karen Nicole Lisle, Michelle Mayer 
Ellie Morland, Mary Jo Olsavsky, Les^e 
Robertson, Gill Shih, Dana Smoko, Krist>e 
Staton, Amy Stempel, Mia White, Natal>e 
Wilson.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Sue Caplan, M 
sica Jatezak, Teri Keller, Jodi Mersay, $ue 
Paezek, Raquel Romano.

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 7
Please support theAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
A Zeta Beta Tau barbecue
The Greek View
Student finds Rush beneficial
By Tina Mazzocchetti
When I came to CMU, I had no knowl
edge of the Greeks and I wasnt sure what to 
expect. There are people who believe that 
the Greeks are just cliques, but I went 
through Rush and found this not 
to be true. During Rush I found 
girls who cared and who were 
willing to sacrifice to make the 
rushees feel welcome. Eventually, I found a 
sorority to be a special place for people to 
become friends and share a unique unity.
I enjoyed Rush a great deal and found it to 
be especially beneficial because Im a com
muter. I joined a sorority because I wanted 
to add this new dimension to my campus life. 
In addition, I found having a Rush counse
lor very helpful. This enabled me to be aware 
of and take part in all the events. Overall I 
must say that Rush was a very beneficial 
experience.
The Greek View is a weekly column written 
in conjuction with the Inter fraternity Council in 
The Tartan.
WiltWihtWie 
suWdnavuypofmfdw 
Svuvpy fm Edvpm
TO v^. ye a Fortune 1000 leaderI y h" r-m i INI with an installed base in 
excess of $1.25 billion, 
Computervision Corporation has the resources to 
build on your best ideas  ideas that will help rev
olutionize plant design and construction, microelec
tronics, aerospace, energy, mapping, and industrial 
and consumer products manufacturing. Resources to, 
help you play a vital role in creating our new genera
tion of CAE/CAD/CAM systems that will bring the 
integration of Computer-Aided Engineering/Design/ 
Manufacturing within the reach of every industry.
We pioneered CAD/CAM. Today, we re an industry 
leader, constantly developing and implementing solu
tions of the future. For example, we recently launched 
a development program designed to make CAE/CAD/ 
CAM technology even more comprehensive and acces
sible to a much greater number of industrial and com
mercial users. The result of the program is a three
tiered product offering: the CDS-3000, CDS-4000, and 
CDS-5000 Series. The CDS-3000 Series of intelligent 
workstations is designed to bring 32-bit microprocess
ing power to the engineers desk for a variety of 
focused CAE/CAD/CAM applications. The CDS-4000, 
the heart of the CDS family of integrated systems, 
offers functionality unmatched in the industry and 
sets the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, 
quality of results and expandibility for multi-applica
tion, high performance systems. Our large CDS-5000 
provides sophisticated applications tools never before 
offered for relational database management to inter
face with other information processing tools, plus 
CAE/CAD/CAM data distribution and management 
capability.
Our unprecedented success in the past and 
our very practical vision of the future offers talented 
creative engineers a wide variety of challenging oppor
tunities in areas such as:
MARKETING
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING 
HARDWARE ENGINEERING 
DIAGNOSTICS ENGINEERING 
APPLICATIONS PROGRAMMING 
QUALITY ASSURANCE 
MANUFACTURING 
CUSTOMER SERVICE
If you want a future that includes working on the most 
exciting technologies in a fast-track environment, consider 
Computervision Corporation We will be on campus October 
4th. Please contact your Placement Office to arrange an 
interview, or send your resume to:
Tim Stark, Manager of College 
Relations, Computervision 
Corporation, 15 Crosby Drive,
Bedford, MA 01730. An Equal PnMDI ITFPV/IRIDNOpportuoity Employer I tHVOHJV

---------------------------------------------------

Now through October 28
1/2 price student tickets 
on sale 30 minutes 
before curtain 
(subject to availability) 
with valid I.D.
321-9800
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONAL
Get owoy and get o free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun, and less expensive than you think.Thats because National rents to 18-year-olds, and gives you clean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge. And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt will help make your weekend a great getaway.You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you need is a valid student ID and drivers license. Use a major credit card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location. T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve 
National 
attention>
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444  434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
\on-tlistnuntahle rale 
applies In this or similar size car 
anil is subjeit In change without notice 
Specific cars sub/eit to availability
Rate available 
from noon 
Thursday to 
6 p.m 
Monday. 
Certain daily 
minimums 
apply. Ask {or 
details.
ALL PRO CAREER 
OPPORTUNITIES
Step up to the first string at the National 
Security Agency.
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING There 
are opportunities in a variety of 
research and development projects 
ranging from individual equipments to 
very complex interactive systems 
involving large numbers of micro
processors, minicomputers and 
computer graphics. Professional growth 
is enhanced through interaction with 
highly experienced NSA professionals 
and through contacts in the industrial 
and academic worlds. Facilities for 
engineering analysis and design 
automation are among the best 
available.
COMPUTER SCIENCE At NSA you'll
discover one of the largest computer 
installations in the world with almost 
every major vendor of computer 
equipment represented. NSA careers 
provide mixtures of such disciplines as 
systems analysis and design, scientific 
applications programming, data base 
management systems, operating systems, 
computer networking/security, and 
graphics.
MATHEMATICS Youll work on diverse 
agency problems applying a variety of 
mathematical disciplines. Specific 
assignments might include solving 
communications-related problems, 
performing long-range mathematical 
research or evaluating new techniques 
for communications security.
THE REWARDS AT NSA NSA offers a 
salary and benefit program thats truly 
competitive with private industry. 
There are assignments for those who 
wish to travel and abundant good living 
in the Baltimore-Washington area for 
those who wish to stay close to home. 
Countless cultural, historical, 
recreational and educational opportu
nities are just minutes away from NSAs 
convenient suburban location.
To find out more about NSA career 
opportunities, schedule an interview 
through your college placement office. 
For additional information on the 
National Security Agency, write to 
National Security Agency, Attn: M322, 
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755.
On Campus Recruiting Date: 
Oct. 10,1984
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Lecture series begins^
Simon states new opportunities will bring change
By MELINDA HOAGE
Tartan Staffwriter
"The boundary that exists between what 
we do and what we are capable of doing is a 
moving positive. That is what Herbert A. 
Simon, Nobel Prize winner and professor of 
psychology stated in last Tuesday's lecture, 
entitled "The Impact of Computers on 
Society. "Social change, he continued, 
"will inevitably come about through new 
opportunities.
These statements summed up the prevail
ing theme for the one hour lecture attended 
by about 400 interested listeners at the 
Skibo Ballroom. The cameras zoomed in and 
tapes rolled as Simon took his stand at the 
podium. The crowd, consisting of profes
sional computer experts and novices alike 
waited to hear what Simon had to say.
His lecture, in a nutshell, dealt with the 
effect computers have in our daily lives; in 
our educational system, our economy, and 
our view of the world around us.
As we are all well aware, by 1986 freshmen 
will be required to have their own personal 
computers. Simon stressed that if we want 
this project to succeed, we must strive to 
improve our knowledge of the learning pro
cess itself. "We must apply the knowledge of 
problemsolvingtechniques to make the most 
of computer science, he said.
The bulk of his speech, which dealt with 
the computer and the economy, emphasized 
the effect computers have on the job market. 
He acknowledged the fact that in some 
markets, the number of available jobs will 
decrease. Factory jobs, for example, are one 
of such markets. Simon then argued that 
this loss will be alleviated as the demand for 
"service jobs (i.e., clerk, bank tellers, cus
todians, builders, etc.) increases. Because 
we are a nation of surplus, the demand for 
increased labor will always exist.
Simon also stated that technology does 
not put restrictions on the number of jobs. 
In other words, there is no fixed ratio 
between a nation's productivity and its per
centage of employed workers.
"We can view our economic issues as 
being either threats or challenges. As long 
as we continue to view them as challenges, 
the boundary between limited accomplish
ments and potential capabilities will gradu
ally disappear.
"We must continuouslyask ourselves 'Whos 
in charge? Once we destroy the stereotype 
of computers as being manipulative, inscru
table machines taking over the country and 
turning our youth into androids, we will 
realize that computers are here for two good 
reasons, Simon said. The first is to supple
ment the institutions of education, informapnoto Dy josn nroasKv
Herb Simon at a reception after his lecture.
tion, and the economy. The second is to closed his speech, where he then devoted 
make those institutions more efficient. another 20 minutes to answering various 
It was on this positive note that Simon questions from the audience.
Cyert interview: SEf won't do work related to warfare
continued from page 1
ages coming out is getting so heavy that it's 
very difficult for one person to do this kind 
of work.
Now, if you think of the DOD, with the 
size that it is, you can multiply the problem 
that we have by many thousands of times. 
That's really the problem that the SEI is 
trying to solve.
In addition, there are a lot of new develop
ments in programming. The introduction of 
the whole art of artificial intelligence as 
the programming process is a new technolog
ical development. Part of the role of the SEI 
will be to do research on new technologies 
for programming and probably try to bring 
some of those technologies to programmers 
who are working in the DOD.
Tartan: An argument that emerged during 
the Vietnam War was that places of learning 
should not become laboratories for develop
ing the tools of destruction. Some student 
protestors condemned defense researchers 
as "making bombs. What are your own 
personal views on this subject?
Cyert: Well, I certainly do not think that
within a university there can be involve
ment in work that is directly related to war
fare because I think that work would be 
classified. As I've already said, we will not 
take any classified work. However, there are 
a number of developments that the DOD 
sponsors that have tremendous impact for 
society as a whole.
The DOD has, for example, the funds to 
sponsor designs of super-computers. We 
certainly are hoping to participate in that. 
Similarly, I think, new developments in pro
gramming are important. But, our whole 
role will be as a manager for this group. In 
other words, we will have some responsibil
ity for seeing that the SEI will be performing 
functions that the DOD wants. It will not be 
an academic function, it will not be part of 
our academic research.
Tartan: So you don't really anticipate 
any opposition to the SEI on moral grounds 
from any university groups?
Cyert: I would not be prepared to say I 
don't anticipate it. I think there's already at 
least some evidence that some people who 
have, I believe, a misunderstanding of the
Richard M. Cyert
institute, are wanting to protest. But, I think 
that on a logical basis there shouldn't be any 
protest because it's all potentially very, very 
helpful both for CMU and the city of Pitts
burgh. Whatever management fee that we 
get from managing the SEI will be part of the 
revenue that will be spent on the university. 
So, the funds that are gained from it will go 
back into the university. I think if we can get 
it, it will be a real help to us. Every univer
sity that has any strength in computer 
science is trying to get it. We will be lucky to 
get it.
Tartan: Now for some questions about 
the future role of computers at CMU. 
There's a rumor going around campus that 
by 1986 ever student at CMU will have his 
own personal computer. Could you explain 
what the situation is on this subject.
Cyert: We're trying to develop a decen
tralized system. We signed a contract some 
several years back with IBM to try to develp 
the software to run a network. We have been 
developing the most advanced computer sys
tem that will be in existence in any univer
sity, in fact, any organization.
As to whether each student will be 
required to buy a computerthat decision 
still remains to be made. That certainly was 
my original thought. We may have a situa
tion where we treat the computer as we 
would treat a textbook. We would recom
mend to students that they buy a computer 
and we would probably have either one or 
several from which the choice could be 
madeall of which would be sold at a dis
count. The cost would be viewed as part of 
the cost of going to school, and, therefore, 
would be the subject to help from financial 
aid. We would leave it up to the student as to 
whether he or she wants to buy itjust the 
way we do with textbooks. However, each 
student would be responsible for doing 
work. So we then might also have some pub
lic clusters.
I would prefer a system where each stu
dent had one [a computer] and where we had 
a great deal of software to integrate this 
whole system with our educational program. 
I think part of this decision will depend upon 
whether we believe there is enough software 
to really make it necessary.
Already, I think, a high percentage of our
students do have computers. We hope to 
finish the wiring of the campus [for a com
puter network] during 1985 and 1986 so that 
we are ready for this system.
Tartan: Last spring you said that with the 
help of computers it is your hope "that well 
be able to graduate students with bachelor's 
degrees in three years without reducing our 
standards, but increasing them. However, 
how realistic is this with the software that is 
in existence today?
Cyert: Well, I don't think that this is 
something that is going to happen within the 
next ten years. A number of faculty 
members, particularly those in engineering, 
believe it's impossible. I would like to see 
something like that though. I think part of it 
will depend on how we evaluate the quality 
of learning. Our tendency is always to keep 
the time constant and then put more and 
more material in and therefore improve the 
quality of educationwhich is certainly an 
alternative.
In either way, the student is going to get 
an increasing amount during the period he 
or she is at school.
Tartan: Do you think it's possible for 
computers to take the role of a teacher?
Cyert: No. They are supplements to the 
teacher. However, I think they will be 
extremely useful in helping students to learn 
on their own. I hope that the computer is 
going to function as an additon to the stu
dent's ability to learn on his own.
I want to see a greater and greater stress 
on the whole concept of learning how to 
learn in our educational program. In the 
end, you have to learn by yourself. You can 
go to class, etc., etc., but ultimately the 
individual has to learn.
Tartan: Some people say that since com
puters are simply abstract symbol manipula
tors, learning on a computer would be hard 
to apply to real-life situations.
Cyert: It's quite the contrary. Because of 
the power of the computer we can give many 
more realistic problems. For example, if I 
ask you to forecast the future of the steel 
industry, with the databases we can make 
available, you can have the same data availa
ble to you as someone working at US Steel 
might have...So, I think it's quite the 
opposite.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
Interviewingspeakers tell what it is all about
By BONNIE TOPF
Tartan Associate Business Manager
Last week the Career Services and Place
ment Office sponsored a lecture entitled 
"Interviewing - Whats It All About? The 
lectures three speakers were William J. 
Kucker of RCA who spoke about preparing 
for a campus interview, A1 Merry from 
Xerox Corporation who discussed what 
happens in a campus interview and what the 
employer is looking for, and John Masserio 
of General Motors Corporation who talked 
about what happens on a plant visit.
Kucker stressed three points when pre
paring for the campus interview: know your
self, learn about the company, and 
communicate. He recommended that the 
student evaluate his strengths, weaknesses, 
interests, and skills before going to the inter
view. The student should know what he is 
looking for in a company. Kucker also 
advised researching the company before the 
interview. Some possible sources of infor
mation include Moody's Industrial Manual, 
Poors Register Fortune Directory of 1st and 
2nd 500, and the placement office library.
Lastly, Kucker mentioned that the stu
dent should practice communicating clearly.
Phrases such as "you know should be 
avoided. He also reminded the audience that 
the interviewers first impressions of appear
ance are very important.
Merry said that an interview includes the 
greeting, questions from the interviewer 
about the student, information about the 
company, and a chance for the student to ask 
questions. He mentioned that the company 
wants to see if the student is enthusiastic 
and has good communications skill, what 
successes the student has had, and if the stu
dent can think rationally and logically. The 
employer is looking for a person who is sen
sitive to people, assertive, mature, and goaloriented. The interviewer will tell the 
student about the company, including its 
style when dealing with customers, its cli
mate within the company, and the job 
responsibilities involved. Merry also said 
that the student will not be given much time 
to ask questions, so he should ask the inter
viewer about calling for more information 
and plant trips.
Masserio spoke about what to expect on a 
plant trip. He said that the company will 
make plane and hotel reservations but that 
the student should keep a record of all
expenses during the trip to report to the 
company. Masserio stated that the student 
could expect to be met at the airport by a 
staff member of the company and taken out 
to dinner that evening and breakfast the 
next morning. He would then be taken to
the plant, interviewed by people involved in 
the job and given a tour of the plant and 
surrounding area. If a job offer is to be 
made, it will come after this point. Follow
ing the offer, a starting salary can be 
mentioned.
Kucker, Merry and Masserio giving advice at lecture.
Student views 
weekend labors
*jy NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
You know its Sunday when . . .
The work is piled on your desk,
Noises seem extra loud,
Your head is throbbing,
You woke up with a dry-mouth,
The work is still piled on your desk, 
And Jeans are too formal to wear.
Yes, its Sunday when . . .
Sweatpants are the main attraction, 
Laundry has to be done  but not** 
today,
The dirty glasses from Fridays 
cocktails
are still in the corner,
The peanut butter is almost gone,
And the books are stil piled on the desk. 
The weekend is running out and nothing 
has been accomplished. Sure, youve caught 
up on your sleep, but what about the home
work? There are enough books on your desk 
to make a new school library.
"I should do some work you say as you 
turn on your favorite T. V. show and salt the 
popcorn. During commercials, the desk toys 
with your guilt, but enough to make you 
budge. And doesnt television make you 
tired? It will be just a short nap  two or 
three hours. Then, its dinner time. Oh no, 
theres so much to do, and its already Sun
day night!
Every concept m advanced electronics... 
together with all the supporting disciplines 
merge at GoukJ Defense Electronics Division, 
where the challenge is to keep our country 
superior in defense-related sound detection 
systems and associated commercial 
technologies.
To maintain the advantage over a skilled and 
determined adversary, we must constantly 
re-energize our thinking with fre^yjdias. We 
are always listening for professionalslyth keen 
minds, and expertise in electrical engineering 
mechanical engineering, quality assurance, 
manufacturing, integrated logistics sufttrt. 
software systems and systems engineerinpN'o 
broaden your career horizons, we conduct on
going iptemal training in all needed specialities
Well be interviewing on campus 
Wednesday, October 10th
A rich career, extending the limits of the mind, 
awaits you. To explore the possibilities, visit 
with our representatives during our campus 
visit, or send your resume and letter of introduc 
tion to: Manager, College Relations 
6nMF*f||f$nse Electronics Division 
i #ay*neadow Drive 
Glen BpSne. Maryland 21061 *
An Equal Opportunity Empleyer^Pl
Rfl
.uLD
feet ron ics
I?Cswufwy Wsundr:, 
STudcNTs dw Wsnavm 
Wsw esry s hbbSypyw:yg
DIVINE LITURGY 
FOR BYZANTINE CATHOLIC STUDENTS 
ON THE OAKLAND CAMPUSES
Every Saturday at 7:00 p.m. 
beginning September 8th 
at Holy Spirit Byzantine Catholic 
Church on 5th Avenue in Oakland
ti as CJ

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 11
/ enjoy teaching"
Professor of finance receives GSIA teaching award for being "dynamic lecturer"
By ARTHUR GELMIS
Tartan Staff writer
Scott Richard doesnt like to do anything 
poorlyThere is a difference, however, 
between not doing something poorly and 
doing it exceedingly well, which, according 
to Richards students, is how he does his job 
of teaching finance at CMU Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration. His 
winning the 1984GSIA Excellence in Teach
ing Award is evidence of that.
"Dynamic lecturer, "Excellent presenI tation of material, "The best class Ive 
I taken, are some of the comments his stu1 dents wrote on their evaluations of Richard.
h
The evaluations were submitted as part of 
the survey conducted by GSIA at the end of 
every semester to determine the winner of 
the annual pecuniary award.
According to Richard, the factors respon
sible for the quality of his teaching are prep
aration and enthusiasm. "My lectures are 
always very ifdl prepared, he explained, 
"and I enjoy teaching the material. 
Although Richard has been teaching the 
same courses for many years, he still retains 
his verve. "Once in a while I see lights go on 
in a students eyes when he comprehends 
some deep idea, he said. Apparently, thats 
one of the things that make it all worthwhile. 
Theres also a certain feeling of responsi
bility Richard feels toward his students. 
"The students here at GSIA are generally 
very hard working, and I respond accord
ingly, he stated. "I also keep in mind that 
the school is getting thousands of dollars 
while I stand there in front of the class.
Richard decided to pursue an academic 
career when he was in graduate school. At 
the time, his primary interest was research. 
He soon found out that not only was he good 
at teaching, but he also enjoyed it.
According to Richard, the relationship 
between teaching and research is very 
important. In his opinion, "Good teaching 
comes from being involved in research. 
Occasionally, it also works the other way
around. "Some of the ideas for research I 
have done, Richard explained, "came from 
my students.
Richard was happy and flattered when he 
learned about winning the award for excel
lence in teaching. According to Ilker Baybars, Co-Director of GSIAs Masters 
Program, the award is part of the Cyert 
administrations efforts to recognize and 
reward excellent teachers at CMU. "In my 
opinion, it is an effective way to encourage 
better teaching, Baybars said.
The award served as a form of reinforce
ment for Richard. "It is nice to learn your 
efforts are noticed and appreciated. I also 
liked the money, Richard quipped.
One alternate to education; 1 your choice is already made
By DREW SMITH
I Tartan Staffwriter
Did you ever just sit back in a chair some
where and ask yourself, "is this college thing 
really worth it or not? Well, if you did,then 
I these facts should keep you seated for a few
I extra minutes. And if you didnt, then
II jnaybe its time that you did.
% Suppose, just hypothetically now, that 
I instead of going to a certain fancy-schmancy 
I high-tech college, that costs 114,000 a year, 
i you just stayed home and watched MTV. 
p And, you put this $14,000 into a corporate 
| bond that pays an effective interest rate of 
|g 15% annually. Remember, this is just hypo1 thetical. So, each year for four years you put 
I 814,000 into bonds, instead of college.
Well, (heres where it gets interesting) at 
B the beginning of the fifth year you would be 
likable to take out a total of $14,212.05 every
year for forty years. That means you had 
better be making $14,212.05 a year more 
than someone who didnt go to college or 
college wasnt worth it. That also means that 
if you had invested instead of going to col
lege you would only have to make $3.89 an 
hour to gross $22,000 a year. The implica
tions go on.
Of course, there are other reasons for 
going to college. And theres something to be 
said for the argument that college graduates 
advance faster and higher than non-college 
graduates. Nevertheless, this should put the 
apparent benefits of a college education into 
a different perspective.
We are winning.
AMERICAN CANCER ? SOCIETYThe future begins today.
THE COM PLETE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ILLUSTRA
TION. By J G Heck 11.725 Detailed lllus. 
Extraordinarily comprehensive vol. packed 
with gorgeous steel engravings and 
explanatory captions will delight artists, illustrators, researchers or anyone looking 
for copyright-free, reproducible material, 
as well as those interested in 19th-c. 
artwork and lovers of fine books. Arranged 
by subject, these breathtaking illus. are 
exquisitely precise, scientifically accurate 
and aesthetically beautiful Over 500 pp. 
12x9. Formerly $60.00 Extraordinary
Value Only $17 95
FASHION MIRROR OF HISTORY. By 
M.and A Batterberry 600 Photos and 
lllus.. 120 Full Color. Charmingly irrever
ent study of fashion from the legendary 
fig leaf to the eclecticism of the present. 
Demonstrates how fashion has reflected 
the foibles, illusions and sexual values of 
society through the ages Incl. profiles of 
designers and trendsetters from Nefertiti 
to Dior. 400 pp 9Ax12. Special Only
$19 96
i
emu focckstci e*
THE KITCHEN BOOK. By T Conran 500 
Full Color Photos Author of The House 
Book provides thousands of ideas for 
making kitchens attractive and functional. 
Analyzes every need of a kitchen and 
suggests scores of beautiful ways to 
obtain them. Originally $35.00 Only
$16 96
RELATIVITY By Albert Einstein Streighforward layman's explanation  written 
by Einstein himlf  of the epochmaking theory the ushered in the atomic 
age New complete edition Only $2.98
mi
THE WOODWORKERS BIBLE By 
P W Blandford Copiously iHus manual no 
woodworker will want to be without Covers 
virtually every aspect of carpentry using 
hand and power tools, cabinetmeking and 
joints inlaying and veneering, carving and 
turning on a lathe Provides detailed instruc
tion on picture framing, finishing woods and
MlMIIMifl ',<8~ *inuk 
Only $6 98
GRAY S ANATOMY: The Classic Color 
Collector's Edition. 780 Detailed lllus. and 
Diagrams, ind. 172 Color Plates. This land
mark 1901 edition of one of the greatest 
reference works of all time is a must for 
physicians, students, artists, and the medi
cally curious. The 1248 pp. text is teeming 
with fascinating information. New intro., 
quality printing, handsome binding, and a 
fantastic low price. Only $8.98
MOTHER GOOSE THE ORIGINAL VOLLAND EDITION The classic Volland edition 
of Mother Goose makes a beautiful addition 
to any home library. Features more than 100 
traditional rhymes, each accompanied by a 
full-page, full color illus. by Frederick 
Richardson Only $6.98
BEATRIX POTTER GIANT TREASURY 
Five children's classics from the creator of 
Peter Rabbit, enhanced by more than 12C of 
her illustrations in color and B&W. Features 
The Story ole Fierce Bad Rabbit. The Story of 
Miss Moppet. The Tele of Tom Kitten. The 
Tale of Jenvma Puddle Duck. The Roly-Poly 
Pudding. 8Hx10%. Only $3.98

 ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON Five of Stevenson's 
best-loved tales of adventure and sus
pense: Kidnapped. Devid Be/four. Treesure 
Is lend. Master of B ellentree and Dr.Jekyll 
and Mr Hyde. Beautifully bound in simu
lated leather with two-color stamping, 
hubbed spines and gilt edges Only $7.98
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
THEIR 10 YEAR OLD 
IS SUING THEM FOR
RYAN O'NEAL SHELLEY LONG DREW BARRYMORE
IRRECONCILABLE DIFFERENCES A LANTANA PRODUCTION 
SAM WANAMAKER ALLEN GARFIELD SHARON STONE
WILLIAM A FRAKER, A.S.C. NANCY MEYERS
ARLENE SELLERS ALEX WNHSKY 
NANCY MEYERS * CHARLES SHYER CHARLES SHYER
rtinvvvwdo GUMMCE SUGfiESTTi
second term
But since the 82 cuts, the face of student 
financial aid has changed, he points out. 
Grant money has dropped from 80.3 percent 
of the total aid package to 48.2 percent. 
Loans have increased from 16.9 percent to 
47.8 percent.
If a second Reagan administration does 
manage to cut aid by 30 percent, Gillespie 
fears some students would be priced out of 
the education market.
"The big fear is that in the absence of 
student aid, lower-income students cant go 
to school, says the ACEs Smith.
When asked about maintaining current 
higher education appropriation levels 
through 1989, and the projected 30 percent 
drop in "constant dollars however, Debra 
Kalcelvik of the Congressional Budget 
Office only laughs. ,
"Theres probably a zero chance. Presi
dential budget requirements basically are 
ignored in Congress.
Great Tuck-In 
happens again
By HARVEY SHAW
Special to The Tartan
After a long evening of study and pizza 
breaks, its time to sleep. But some people | 
miss being tucked in by Mom or Dad, a !| 
lullaby still humming in their mind as they 1 
snuggle under the blanket with their favorite | 
stuffed animal. Well, these people dont 1 
have to worry about this loss anymore. 1 
Alpha Phi Omega, CMUs service fraternity, 1 
understands them and can help, if only for J 
two evenings.
A Phi O announces The Great Tuck-In, 1 
where you let us put you to bed. We can I 
provide milk and cookies, a back massage, a 
nursery tale or rhyme, a lullaby, or even 
stuffed animal in addition to a tuck-in. Truly 
homesick people can get everything, at a J 
reduced rate of course.
Sign up a friend or yourself on September | 
26, 27,and 28 outside Doherty Hall (inside 1 
Baker Hall if it rains) from 9:30 am to 3:30 1 
pm; inside Skibo Grey Matter from 11:00am j 
to 2 pm; and at Morewood Gardens main 1 
entrance on the 26th and 27th from 4:30pm | 
to 7:30 pm. On October 1 and 2, our trained I 
volunteers will visit between 11:00 pm and Jj 
1:00 am to make the designated tuck-ins.' ^ 
Please be certain that these people are in 1 
their rooms; it would be a shame if they J 
missed a much-needed tuck-in.
Loneliness and homesickness are painful 1 
Show your understanding by letting A Phi 0 1 
put someone (even you) to bed.
Soups
Sandwiches
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
11:30 am - 1:30 pm 
weekdays 
Lutheran University Center 
682-6886 4515 Forbes
(between Craig & Dithridge)
Pregnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your opt
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494 
Alternative to Abortion, he.
A MW pmfc
Students may have less aid in Reagan
OPENS AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28TH
'* * * J J : i m. J l-li. ilithi 1 > . . . .....
Washington, D.C. (CPS)  Even with no 
further budget cuts, more students could be 
chasing fewer aid dollars during a second 
Reagan term if the administration achieves 
the goals set out in a recently-released 
budget document.
While the document, prepared by the 
Office of Management and Budget (OMB), 
predicts no actual cuts in federal aid, it also 
suggests the administration will ask for no 
aid increases, and forecasts inflation will 
reduce existing programs by as much as 30 
percent by 1989.
"The changes are due primarily to infla
tion, says Barry White, OMB budget exa
miner. "We dont anticipate any policy 
changes.
The document outlines a drop in "con
stant dollars (1985 dollars cheapened by 
inflation through 1989) spent on student aid 
in a projection of the 1989 budget.
Prepared last winter, the document 
doesnt reflect more recent negotioations 
with Congress that tacked $2 billion on to 
the presidents proposed education budget,
White stresses.
Even with the inevitable compromises to 
come in the budget process, the Senates 
proposed 1985 education budget of $8 bil
lion and the House $7.5 billion proposal 
already outweigh Reagans $6.8 billion 
request.
"This is not to say the administration has 
proposals to make changes beyond the 1985 
budget, explains White. "We will hold the 
Pell grant at the 84 schedule, combine 
Work/Study with SEOG (Supplemental 
Educational Opportunity Grants) and make 
new NDSLs (National Direct Student 
Loans) only from repayment of old loans. No 
new money will be available for NDSL.
Reagans proposed budget would cut $330 
million in student aid, or 913,000 graduate 
and undergraduate awards.
Congress consistently has overridden the 
presidents opposition to increased educa
tion spending, holding the proposed cuts to a 
total loss of 20 percent of the 1980 college 
budget.
"Fiscal 84 got some substantial
increases, says Pat Smith of the American 
Concil on Education (ACE). "We may get 
some increases again in 85. Reagan didnt 
ask for them, but we may get them anyway.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
one seems to fit nicely intomost artists
star in "Irreconcilable Difieren'
Film Cla*aica
Hollywood's Greatest Musicals 
to play at Chatham Cinema
A series of eight of the greatest Hollywood 
musicals of all time will open an exclusive 
engagement at the Chatham Cinema in Cha
tham Center on Friday, September 28.
Opening the series will be the longawaited, full-length restored version of "A 
Star is Born starring Judy Garland and 
James Mason. Presented in full stereophonic 
sound for the first time since its original 
release, "A Star is Born will play on Friday, 
Saturday, Sunday and Monday, September 
28 through October 1.
The film acclaimed by many as the best 
musical ever, MGMs "Singin in the Rain 
^ starring Gene Kelly, Donald OConnor and 
Debbie Reynolds will run Tuesday, Wednes
day and Thursday, October 2, 3 and 4.
Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse in "Silk 
Stockings follows Friday through Monday, 
October 5 through 8 and "Guys and Dolls 
in full stereophonic sound with Marlon 
Brando, Jean Simmons, Frank Sinatra and 
Vivian Blaine is booked for Tuesday through 
Thursday, October 9, 10 and 11.
Rodgers and Hammersteins "South 
m Pacific, the original roadshow version with 
stereophonic sound, starring Rossano Brazzi 
and Mitzi Gaynor will play Friday through
Saberhagen scores with Swords Trilogy finale
By ANDREW MAYER
Tartan Staff writer
It seems that everyone who is writing fan
tasy these days is doing a trilogy. Obviously 
there is a good precedent for this. After all, if 
the first book does well, the writer is assured 
of royalties from the other two.
Unfortunately, many of these 
trilogies end up being bad from 
start to finish, or start very 
strong but have run out of good ideas by the 
middle of the second book. With the con
cluding book of The Swords Trilogy, entitled 
The Third Book of Swords, Fred Saberhagen 
shows that he can make the grade.
Characterization is Saberhagens strong 
point. Throughout the famous Berserker ser
ies it was his ability to show that machines 
felt just as strongly about destroying our 
race as we did about saving it that made 
every book worth reading.
In the Swords books not only are Saberha
gens characterizations stronger than ever 
before, but he now has the story telling abil
ity to accompany them. Each character is
the framework of the book. The game that 
the gods play throughout the book allows us 
to look in as the ultimate beings of the world 
#feel their control slipping away.
We follow the game mainly through Mark 
who, when the book started, is only a simple 
peasant boy whose father helped in the origi
nal casting of the twelve swords. Each wea
pon is endowed with a different magical 
power and each may, in the end, do greater 
harm to the wielder than those he uses it 
against.
It is when we find nothing is immune to 
the swords abilities that things get interest
ing. Those who enjoy being frustrated by 
alternating plotlines will find that although
the device is not obvious, cliffhangers leave 
the reader continually on the edge of his 
chair.
To say that the Third Book of Swords is 
perfect is untrue. It is not really an ending 
but more a phase of something larger. Many 
plotlines are not satisfactorily resolved and 
some things that seemed important in book 
one are never mentioned again.
After paying $6.95 a piece for these books 
I didnt enjoy the feeling that if I really want 
to know what happens Im going to have to 
wait another year. Another complaint is 
Saberhagen often gets so wrapped up in his 
world he leaves the average reader behind. 
He is not alone, however; Tolkien was guilty
of this crime.
The story takes place in Ardnehs world, 
in the same setting as The Empire of the East 
(a former trilogy), approximately 4,000 
years later. If you pick up the books and feel 
lost, read Empire. It is referred to quite heav
ily in the first book and shows how a good 
author can improve over time.
Unfortunately, there is no mention of 
Empire since the Swords books are put out by 
a different publisher (Empire is Ace books. 
Swords is Tor books.). For this same reason, 
many people dont realize that Thorn and 
Dominion are continuations of his Dracula 
books. This is a minor complaint ; his writing 
continued on page 14
Underground Recordings Diversify Album Market
By AL DATRI
Tartan Staffvcriler
Anyone who has ever attended a live con
cert knows that an artist often is more emo
tional and sincere on stage than on a mixed, 
re-mixed, and slicked-up studio album. Even
ceg*, the story of a ten year old girl who sues her parents for divorce. Coming sooi 
jo theSqukrel Hill Theatre.___________________ _____________________
odically reach vinyl with a sound that is 
more the producer's than the band's, often 
sounding more like a studio album with an 
audience track in the background.
Live concerts are being recorded all the 
time, but most are destined to sit on a record 
company's shelf, forever lost to the world. 
Statistics show that the majority of the pop
ular music fans, who spend millions of.dollars every year on albums and concert 
tickets, are in their teens and twenties, yet 
middle-aged executives decide what music is 
fit for them to hear.
The average fan must resign himself to 
wait for years in the hope that the record 
company will either release these pieces of 
musical history, or license them to some 
other company, such as the infamous K-Tel.
However, one can obtain more of an 
artist's music, if one is diligent enough. By 
searching store after store, and searching 
through thousands of albums, one may find 
an album with a blank label, no inner sleeve, 
and a plain white cover with the hastily 
scribbled words: LED ZEPPELIN : BLUEB
ERRY HILL. No, this isn't some obscure 
album of which Atlantic only pressed a few 
copies, nor is it a typographical error. This is 
a bootleg. A bootleg is a musical perfor
mance that has never been released offi
cially. It quietly appears without radio 
commercials or a box in Billboard.
It is usually not difficult to identify a
bootleg album. Most are found in plain white 
covers in a clear protective sleeve, an inex
pensive way of preventing the disk from 
rolling out. Some even have normal shrink 
wrap, the plastic film in which official 
albums are sealed.
Often a photocopied picture of the artist is 
slipped inside of the outer plastic sleeve. 
These easily produced cover sheets are usu
ally emblazoned with the name of trhe artist 
in large letters, as well as variably accurate 
accounting of where and when the material 
was performed.
The disk itself is usually just as different 
from big label releases as are the covers. 
Most have blank white labels. Some may 
have the name of the album or even a custom 
printed label. Some are found with the regu
lar labels of small record companies, such as 
a recent Black Sabbath bootleg which bears 
the label of Creative Artistry. The label 
proclaims the album is by a band called Fury 
and lists the songs. The disk is obviously a 
misrepresentation, since one can look at it 
and tell that it is one track without 
separations.
A bootleg with its own label is of Magic 
Fingers, which contains Jimi Hendrix mate
rial. This double album has a regular photo
graph cover, and the disk labels have the 
name of the album and lists the songs con
tained on that side. This is one of the bettercontinued on paga 14
Monday, October 12, 13, 14 and 15 followed 
by MGMs "Kiss Me Kate starring Kathryn 
Grayson and Howard Keel on Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday, October 16, 17 
and 18.
The final week of the great Hollywood 
musicals begins on Friday, October 19 with a 
four day engagement of Rodgers and Ham
mersteins "Oklahoma! with Gordon 
MacRae, Gloria Grahame and Shirley Jones, 
in full stereo.
"Showboat with Kathryn Grayson, Ava 
Gardney and Hward Keel concludes the 
run on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 
October 23, 24 and 25.
The distributor of each film has promised 
the Chathan new, uncut, full-length prints, 
exactly as the films were originally released.
No passes will be accepted during the run 
of Hollywoods great musicals at the 
Chatham.
Matinees will be scheduled on Wednes
day, Saturday and Sunday afternoons.
Indoor parking for patrons of the Cha
tham Cinema is available in the Chatham 
Center garage. A direct entrance into the 
theater lobby is located on the garage red 
level.
photo by Colin Rafteny
Comedian Tim Settimi played to an appreciative audience in the Skibo Ballroom 
last Wednesday. ______________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
Live but IllegalBootleg Availability Widespread Despite Restrictive Laws
continued from page 13
packaged bootlegs.
The quality of both the pressing and the 
sound of bootlegs can very greatly. Some are 
pressed on high quality vinyl, and a few even 
proclaim to be pressed on virgin vinyl, such 
as the Black Sabbath mentioned above. How
ever, most are of lesser quality.
On the average bootleg one can find a 
number of pits and bubbles. These result 
from a poor mastering process. Often the 
grooves are very close together, a necessity 
of putting 40 minutes on one side. The qual
ity of the sound is related to the quality of 
the mastering and pressing, but it is more 
dependent upon the quality of the original 
material.
Some are made from professionaly 
recorded tunes and can be near the quality of 
a legal studio album. These can be concerts 
that were recorded by the band, or occasion
ally studio material that did not make it to 
the band's official albums. An example of 
the latter is a Kiss album entitled "The 
Tickler".
Most of this sort of material comes from
Campus Paperback Bestsellers
1. The Nam# of the Rose, by Umberto Eco. (Warner, $4.95.) 
Murder rn an Italian monastery.
2. In Search of Excellence, by T. J. Peters and R. H. Waterman Jr. 
(Warner, $8.95.) A look at the secrets of successful business.
3. Megatrends, by John Naisbitt. (Warner, $3.95.)
Forecasting America's future.
4. The One Minute Manager, by K. Blanchard & S. Johnson. 
(Berkley, $6.95.) How to increase your productivity.
5. Toons for our Times, by Berke Breathed. (Little Brown, 
$6.95.) Cartoons from the comic strip Bloom County.
6. Out on a Umb, by Shirley MacLaine. (Bantam, $3.95.)
More of MacLairtes memoirs.
7. Hollywood Wives, by Jackie Collins. (Pocket, $3.95.) 
Glamourous lives of the women behind the men in Tinseltown
8. Blue Highways, by William Leat Moon. (Fawcett, $3.95.) 
A look at life at the back roads of America.
9. The Color Purple, by Alice Walker. (Washington Square 
Press, $5.95.) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award.
10. The Summer of Katya, by Trevanian. (Ballantine, $3.95.)
A compelling romantic thriller by the author of Shibumi.
ponpM by Tim Ctmonic* of Hiptm Cducshon from w*orm*on uppMfl by coNag* Motm throughout 9m country AuguM IS. 1M4
the employees of record companies who 
have access to the tape libraries. They 
simply borrow the tape overnight and make a 
copy. Others may be recorded by members 
of the audience, a practice that has muchroomed in the past few years due to the 
advent of Walkman-type recorders. The 
quality of this sort of material can vary from 
hideously bad to rather good, depending 
upon the location and quality of the 
recorder, plus numerous other factors.
Other bootlegs can be legal radio broad
casts that the bootlegger recorded. This sort 
can be of very good quality since the concert 
was originally recorded professionally by 
one of the concert networks, such as the 
King Biscuit Flower Hour or Westwood One.
The remaining bootlegs come from other 
sources. For example, a member of the 
band's sound crew or an employee of the 
theater or hall might tap the myriad cables 
that issue from the mixing boards used to 
control the sound system. Still others are 
the artist's personal tapes that were stolen or 
copied secretly. When Jimi Hendrix had
died, his various apartments and recording 
studios were ransacked and large numbers of 
tapes stolen. These tapes are the source of 
numerous bootlegs of jam sessions, includ
ing one that contains jams that Hendrix 
recorded at his house in Woodstack, New 
York.
One would think that once such material 
was released the bootlegger would advertise 
his product. But one never sees such albums 
advertised. Why do they not experience the 
same commercial hype as Michel Jackson's 
Thriller? Because they are illegal.
A musician's performance is by law his 
own property, and he alone has the right to 
contract with a record company for its 
release. Any party who releases unlicensed 
material is blatenily violating copyright 
laws, as is a party who purchases such 
material.
But bootlegs will continue being made as 
long as the major record companies continue 
to keep official releases at a trickle and fans 
are willing to hunt down and pay for more of 
their favorite artists' music.
Prize-winning Bagpiper to 
Play Wherrett Room Saturday
By RON LUPISH
Special to the Tartan
James McIntosh, past winner of most of 
Scotlands most prestigious piping awards, 
will present a solo concert demonstrating 
the full range of bagpipe music, from light 
tunes to the classical music of the 
instrument.
McIntosh, who recently emigrated to the 
U.S., has been piping since his youth. He 
served with the Queens Own Cameron High
landers and later studied piobaireachd (pro
nounced PEE-brokh) with Pipe Majors R.U. 
Brown and R. Nichol.
While still in Scotland, McIntosh organExcitement!
Youll never be bored at Advanced Micro Devices. Thats what the authors of 
The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America* said. They ranked AMD 
right up there in the top 15, with high points for benefits, job security, ambience 
and  perhaps most important  the chance to move up.
AMD is the fifth largest and fastest growing major integrated circuit company in 
the U.S. producing both Bipolar and MOS products.
Opportunities for graduating engineers are expanding at our Sunnyvale, Califor
nia headquarters and in Austin and San Antonio, Texas.
Your BS, MS or PhD in Electrical Engineering, Solid State Physics, Materials 
Science or Computer Science could be the first step in your move up with AMD.
On Campus Interviews October 11, 1984
!f our campus interview schedule is full, send your resume to Toni Doyle, 
College Recruiting, Advanced Micro Devices, Dept. CMT-0925, MS-57, 901
Thompson Place, P.O. Box 3453, Sunnyvale, California 
94088. Or call TOLL FREE (800) 538-8450, ext.
^ 2377. An equal opportunity employer.
Copyright 1984 by R. Levering, 
M Moskowitz and M Katz 
Published by Addison-Wesley
AdvancedMicroDevices
Catch the wave
ized and ran a prize-winning pipe band. Since 
his arrival in the U.S., he has continued his 
reed-making business. He provides tuition to 
some of the finest pipers in the States and is 
in continual demand for piping workshops 
all over the United States, Canada, and other 
parts of the world.
With the resurgence of interest in rees
tablishing a Pipe Band on campus, his con
cert should be a rewarding and enriching 
experience for anyone who enjoys the sound 
of this remarkable instrument. The perfor
mance will be given at 4:30 Saturday, Sep-^| 
tember 29 in the Skibo Wherrett Room and 
is free and open to the public.
Book of Swords 
Author finishes
Triad with Style
continued from page 13 ~
has improved steadily since the changeover.
Overall there are few books that have 
come out in the past few years that I could 
recommend as highly. There is great enter
tainment and great writing. The first is now 
out in a regular sized edition so theres no 
reason to delay.
An oldie but a goodie: If you enjoy 
Larry Niven but feel his books sometimes 
lack action, if you enjoy Jerry Pournelle but 
get sick of drawn out descriptions of combat, 
then The Mote in God's Eye is the book for 
you! It is the best of both worlds and makes 
for a story of adventure, intrigue, romance, 
and diplomacy in the highest tradition of 
these authors. For readers of the modern 
classics in sci-fi, this book is a must have. 
But be warned, it takes up a good bit of shelf 
space.
PREGNANT?
And you dkbi't mmmn to b*? 
For a free pregnancy last and 
corwioemiBi nwp, can Birthright at621-1988

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Boland (shoulder) and Mike Garverick (finMark Brado, Joe Glinka, Ed Gallagher, Rob 
ger)...The Kiltie dance line made their debut Butts, Ross Jicomelli, and Harley Carroll, 
against JCU... Nick Klipa threw his first pass The Tartan sports department voted for 
of the year. It was intercepted...WRCT Mike Garverick.
elected the "white team offensive line of________________________________________
CBfU Individual Statistics 
Rushing
Aft.Yds.Avg.
Boland381473.8
Smith191035.4
Garverick15845.6
Minjock14584.1
Hensel15432.9
Collaros103636
Denmeade9333.8
Zito22251.2
Scarpone6223.7
Roble1-6-6.0
Klipa1-19-9.5
Receiving
No.Yds.Avg.
Roble1115714.3
Richards615125.2
Teresky5438.6
Behling25728.5
Denmeade23819.0
Boland23216.0
Scarpone11010.0
Passing
C A Yds. ITD
Zito18 32 252 10
Hensel11 27 236 23
Klipa1 '00 10
Hockey dub prepares for season
Tartans back on winning track with 2412 win
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan New Editor
Presidents Athletic Conference play 
began Saturday as the CMU Tartans 
defeated the John Carroll Blue Streaks by 
the score of 24-12. The victory raised the 
Tartans record to 2-1.
As it did last year, the Tartan offense 
waited until the third game before really 
getting rolling. CMU gained 422 total yards, 
313 with their potent running attack. Mike 
Garverick led the way for Tech with 86 yards 
on 11 carries (officially, statisticians cre
dited Garverick with 70 yards on eight car
ries, but three of Garvericks carries were 
credited to Victor Boland). T.D. Smith had 
his biggest game of his CMU career, with 73 
vards on 11 carries. The backs werent really 
ale story, though.
I* The offensive line was blowing the John 
Carroll defense off the ball. Led by tackles 
Ross Jicomelli and Robert Botts, running 
backs had few problems finding the craters 
in the Blue Streak defense. Unlike the past, 
however, it was the smaller, quicker backs 
that did the damage as opposed to the power 
runners. Garverick, Smith, and Mike Minjack were the three leading rushers; none of 
them are listed at over 175 pounds. The big 
backs, Boland and Anthony Collaros, had 41 
yards between them.
Defensive Coordinator Don Poluszek had 
the defense well prepared. Poluszek said he 
watched 25-30 hours of films with the rest 
of the coaches, and it showed. Defensive 
back Dan Preston said," Coach Polu had us 
so well propared. Everything they ran, every 
play, we practiced about 20 times in pracI tice. Another player said,"He works so 
hard, and thats the result.
Poluszek said," I try to propare them well. 
Weve got good athletes here, and when 
j youve got good athletes, you want to give 
them a chance to express their talents. 
Asked if the Tartans keyed on last years 
leading PAC rusher Brad Cantwell, Poluszek 
said,"We dont key anybody We defense 
formations, and read the other teams 
| strengths out of that formation. Then we 
f read the blocking formations.
The defense held Cantwell to just 54 yards 
after averaging 95 yards a game the first two 
weeks. Joe Stadnicar, the Blue Streak ful
lback, gained 64 yards, less than his 75 yard 
average.
The pass defense was not great, as JCU 
quarterback Steve Sabath often had a wide
This years schedule is made particularly 
difficult by the addition of Division I team 
Navy. However, Navy and Duquesne are the 
only teams that appear to cause the Tartans 
any amount of concern. The rest of the sche
dule is comprised of games with teams from 
Division II and III. The Hockey Club plays 
the majority of their games at the Lakeview 
Ice Palace in Valencia (about a half hour 
north of CMU). However, the games with 
Duquesne are held at the Civic Arena, and 
admission is free. Students are invited to 
attend the Duquesne games, as the Tartans 
appreciate fan support against their rivals. 
The season opener is away against Allegheny 
and Slippery Rock on October 13. Anyone 
interested in joining the club can contact 
Mike Holloran at 687-3667.
photo by Bob Fishel
Coach Larry Anderson named Alumni Trustee at Point Park College last week.
By THOMAS MENNER
Tartan Staffwriter
In the 1983-84 season the CMU Hockey Club 
won their division with an 18-5 record, but 
lost to arch-rival Duquesne by one goal ;n 
the first round of the playoffs (Duquesne 
continued on to win the championship). 
This year the Hockey Club fields a team of 22 
skdters, including 15 returning from last 
year and the addition of 5 freshmen. Led by 
club president and four-year defenseman 
Tim Kenny, the Tartans feature last years 
leading scorer Rob Katz, four-year goalie 
Bob Kasalowski, veteran right wing Bob 
Cook, and the ever-popular Mike Halloran. 
Despite the loss of three of last years star
ters the Tartans appear to have an expe
rienced and powerful squad.
Ron Orie(82) brings down Eric Bryll(30) as Scott Bachik comes over to help.photo by Todd Prario
open receiver. Sabath had trouble hitting 
those receivers, though, completing just 9 of 
24 passes for 101 yards. Bill Kahl replaced 
him late in the fourth quarter and led Carroll 
to their only touchdown on a five yard run.
The kicking game was excellent for both 
teams. Blue Streak kicker Joe Timko hit two 
field goals of 41 and 22 yards, while the 
Tartans Rob Fleischman hit a 29 yard field 
goal and made three extra points.
The game was a big one for CMU. This is a 
good John Carroll team, and CMU had to 
bounce back from last weeks loss to Bucknell. This game got the offense going, and 
re-established the Tartans power in the 
PAC
Tartan Tattlers-The Tartans travel to 
Cleveland next week to face Hiram Colle
ge...The game is scheduled to start at 2:00, 
and will be covered by WRCT (88.3)...CMU 
defeated Hiram, 46-0, last year...Brad Sherwin split his chin in the second quarter, but 
was stitched up and re-entered the 
game...other injuries included Victor

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 25. 1984
Cross-Country finishes high, baseball wins
In its first Invitational meet of the season 
the cross-country team pulled out a sixth 
place finish in a field of twenty-five teams. 
The Tartans were first among the Division
III teams that were present, and were only 
beaten by Division I and II powerhouses 
such as Indiana and Temple Universities.
In the mens "B race Tim Felmley fin
ished twenty-fourth to lead Bob Kissel, Jeff 
Clark and the rest of the second team to an 
eigth place finish in their race.
Bob Dusch led the Tartan charge in the 
mens "A race with a time of 34:08 for the 
10K course. Mark Selecki, after a slow start, 
came on strong over the last two miles to 
finish 34th, about a minute behind Dusch. 
The next Tartan to cross the finish line was 
Duane Galbi who held on to finish 42nd. 
Right behind him Dean Danowski finished 
50th and Paul Carnine, despite being spiked 
in the toe, finished 52nd, to finish out the 
harriers top five.
Next week the Tartans will be back to 
running the shorter 5 mile race they are 
more accustomed to, as they take on Robert 
Morris College at home in Schenley Park. 
Three of CMUs last four meets will be run 
on its home course. No visiting team has 
been able to crack the Tartans dominance of 
the Schenley Park trails which constitute 
the teams home course, and this years 
young team is striving to extend the 
tradition.

The CMU baseball team survived a tortu
rous ninth inning last week defeating the 
Community College (South CCampus) Tig
ers 6-5, gaining its first win of the year 
against seven defeats. Pitcher Rich Hall
went the distance to earn the victory, with 
Tiger jurler Chuck Morrow taking the loss.
CMU went into the final inning with a 6-4 
lead. The inning before had been a relatively 
easy one for pitcher Hall, and the Tartans 
were seeking to retire the Soutrh Campus 
hitters in order. But such was not to be the 
case. With the bases loaded and one out, 
Hall ran the count bto 3-0 on Tiger Carl 
Nostrom. The next pitch barely nipped the 
strike zone, but the runner on first, Eric 
Chalus, thought it was ball four and went to 
second base, only to find it occupied by a 
more alert runner and Tartan infielder Jeff 
Bergman holding the ball. A run scored on 
the play, but Hall retired the hitter on an 
easy fly to the outfield to end the game.
CMU scored five of their six runs in the 
fourth inning. With one out, Larry Popelewiski, Steve Orlando, and Bruce Nibbelink 
all walked to load the bases. Paul Burgundy 
then stroked a single which got past the 
South Campus center fielder, allowing two 
runs to score. The bases were again loaded 
after Tartan Jeff Bergman reached first on a 
throwing error by the Tiger third baseman 
and were quickly cleared again when short
stop John Spanos smacked a triple into deep 
right-center field, bringing in the fourth, 
fifth, and sixth CMU runs.
The Tartans and hurler Rich Hall were 
not so fortunate against the LaRouche Col
lege later in the week. Hall and those who 
followed him on the mound were battered 
for 10 runs

The Tartan soccer team split a pair ot 
games this past week, beating St. Francis 
handily on Wednesday before dropping the
Kevin Jung races a St. Francis defender
Conference opener to John Carroll on 
Saturday.
On Wednesday, CMU scored three first 
half goals and equalled that total in the 
second half to make the final 6-0. Doug And
erson started off the scoring by putting one 
in on the rebound following a free kick. John 
McNamara and Charlie Lockhead each 
added goals to make it 3-0 at intermission. 
Alan Mayr headed in a goal with an assist 
from Ted Anderer to get things going in the
photo by Evan McDonnell
for the ball.
second half, followed by goals from Owen 
Rantu and Alex Tomlinson. Sam Montague 
and Jamie Ruffings combined for their third 
consecutive shutout.
On Saturday the team travelled to John 
Carroll to face the Blue Streaks, opening the 
PAC season. JCU scored one goal in the first 
half and added two in the second half, shut
ting out the Tartans 3-0.
CMU continues its PAC play with a Jiome 
continued on page 17
?
</>oz -
DOMI 
PIZZ /
2001
Ring
(earth).......... Dominofs Pizza, may I
taka your order?*(space lab)......This ia space lab 3X0B
and we'd like to order a 
large 16 Deluxe pizza with real dairy cheese."
(earth)........ Dommcfs Pizza always
uses only 100% real 
dairy cheese and our delivery is freer
(space lab)..... Really? Great...howlong wiH it take ?"
(earth)---------- We'd shuttle your pizza
to your hatch in 30 minutes or less
Free for the asking!
Free with any size pizza 
a space shuttle
One per pizza
Expires: 10/ 7/84
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry ess 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area
eia>2 Domino' Ptua Inc

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 17
Women's tennis dominates, field hockey wins opener
continued from page 16
game against Hiram this Saturday at 1:00 p. 
m. at Tech Field.

Last Tuesday, the CMU wonen's tennis 
team captured its first victory of the season, 
defeating Chatham College 3-2. The win 
evened the team's record at 1-1, following an 
opening loss to Pitt, 7-2, on Sept. 14th.
Against Chatham, CMU totally dominated 
the doubles matches. First doubles, featur
ing co-captains Liza Reed and Laurie Arendas, destroyed their opponents, 6-1 6-0. Liza 
said the victory will give them "confidence 
for the season/' and they both agreed that it 
was a good way to start conference play.
In number 2 doubles, Amy Shaw and 
Andrea Benowitz made quick work of their 
opponents, 6-0 6-1. Coach Fall simply com
mented that the easy doubles victories were 
because of our superior "serves and vol
leys," and our very strong doubles teams.
Singles play was a little different, as CMU 
won only one of three matches. Lorena 
Miller, playing number 3 singles, easily 
defeated her Chatham opponent 6-1 6-0 for 
CMU's only singles victory.
The other two singles matches were 
closer, but CMU lost both. Leslie Inglese, 
playing number 2 singles, really seemed to 
 struggle, and lost her match 3-6, 4-6. The 
number one singles match was the only
three set match of the afternoon. Darla Messick, playing a much bigger opponent, took 
the first set 6-2, but lost the next two sets, 
4-6 and 1-6.
The match was somewhat of a reunion for 
our new tennis coach, Mindy Fall, who was 
an assistant coach at Chatham the last four 
years. She donned a Chatham tennis shirt, 
however, in a somewhat symbolic gesture, 
covered up the old with the new by wearing 
her CMU jacket over the Chatham shirt.a
The CMU field hockey team began its sea
son on a positive note with a 1-0 victory over 
Washington and Jefferson College last week. 
The game was doubly significant as it 
marked the CMU debut of Jan McDowell, 
who succeeded Joan Maser as coach.
Even though it was the first regularseason game for both teams, they had met 
earlier in the Pennwood West Conference 
Tournament at Bethany. The Tartans also 
triumphed in that match, winning by a score 
of 2-1, but coming in third in the tourna
ment with a 1-2-1 record, compared to 
W&Js 1-3 fourth place finish.
W&J managed to keep the Tartans at bay 
through the first half, despite frequent CMU 
drives deep into W&J territory. The Tartans 
had several good shots, but all were wide or 
blocked by W&J goalie Sherry Lewis.
Grove Citys Cathie Ellison returns the ball against CMU
photo by George Tsao-Wu
High Holy day Schedule 
Jewish University Center 
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Oakland JCC Building 
621-8875
Wednesday, Sept. 26th: Erev Rosh Hashana 
6:00 pm Dinner, 7:30 pm Services (JCC Auditorium)
Dinner Price: $5.25 (RSVP by Sept. 21st)
Thursday, Sept. 27th: Rosh Hashana Services (JCC Auditorium)
9:30 am Services
10:00 am Reform Services (Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall, CMU)
Friday, Sept. 28th: Rosh Hashana 
9:30 am Services (JCC Auditorium)
Friday, Oct. 5th:
5:30 pm Erev Yom Kippur Dinner
7:00 pm Kol Nidre Services (JCC Auditorium)
7;00 pm Reform Kol Nidre Services (Rogei Room of JCC)
Dinner Price: $5.25 (RSVP by Oct. 3rd)
Saturday, Oct 6th:
9 30 am Yom Kippur Services (JCC Auditorium)
11:00 am Liberal Services (Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall, CMU)
5;00 pm Mincha Services (JCC Auditorium) closing Heilan Services and shofar sounding
aPprox. 7:30 pm
8 00 pm Break-the-fast Dinner price $5.25 (RSVP by Oct. 3rd)
Tartan field hockey squares off vs. W&J
CMU stepped up the offensive pressure in 
the second half, and it finally paid off. Team 
captain Lynn Otto directed a corner shot 
from freshman forward Sarah Fay into the 
W&J goal to give CMU the only score of the 
day. The Tartans did have a scare later in the 
half when W&J mounted a deep drive and 
had an apparent open goal situation, but the 
shot went wide to the left, averting a score.
Asked after the game about her teams 
performance, Coach McDowell was gener
ally impressed, although she noted that they
did not make the most of their scoring oppor
tunities. "We spent an awful lot of time in 
their half of the field without scoring, she 
remarked.a
The Tartan women's volleyball team was 
defeated by Grove City College in their home 
opener, three games to one.
photo by Neil Greenblum
at Tech Field
CMU opened their season with three con
secutive road victories versus Penn StateMcKeesport, Penn State-Fayette and 
Garrett College.
The Tartans were dominated by senior 
hitter and Wolverine captain Cathie Ellison. 
Ellison seemed to come through with a 
thundering spike whenever there was a key 
point.
CMU was lacking in movement and reac
tions. It seemed that Grove City was getting 
to more shots, covering the court better than 
the Tartans. Their reflex actions enabled 
them to get to more dreaded "dink" shots.
The Tartans did win one of the four 
games, led by the setting of Janet Stariha and 
the spikes of freshmen Marianne Smith and 
Chris Coleman.
Written and reported by Scott Bozic, John 
Freedmann, Duane Galbi, David Katz, and 
Christopher D. Lewis.
Longest Walking-On-Hands
In 190Q, Johann Hurlinger of Austria walked 
on his hands from Vienna to Pans in 55 daily 
10-hour stints covering a distance of 871 miles 
AT&T long distance wins hands down when 
it comes to immediate credit for 
incomplete calls ond wrong numbers.
longdistance winners. *
Longest Bicy cle Race
The longest one -day"massed start race is the 551-620 km 
(342-385 miles) Bordeaux-Pans event In 1981.Herman van Spnngei averaged 47186 km/hr (2932 mphj 
covering 584.5 km (3624 miles) in 13 hi 35 rrm 18 sec ATftT long distance lets me good times roN for you too with discounts at up to 0% very day
Nobody can match AI*T for savings and service: 40% discounts evenings. 60% discounts nights and weekends. Immdiat credit for incomplete calte and wong numbers. CaHs from anywhef to anywhere, anytime 24-hour operator assistance Quality that sounds as ckMe as next dooc rs a winning combination Why settle for less?
fli
i
For details on exciting new plansideal for students visit the display in the Camegie-Mellon University Bookstorestore / iA

The more you hear the bettor we sound.**' y
__________
M0

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
CMU baseball club doesn't get any respect
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffuiritmr
One of Camegie-Mellon's most unhe
ralded sports teams,the baseball club began 
its seventh year of inter-collegiate competi
tion this September. The team plays two 
seasons per aceademic year, a short 15-game 
stretch in the fall and a longer one in the 
spring. Participation is at 22 members this 
autumn, but in the spring up to 60 people try 
out for the team.
The club has been coached by William 
Allen since its inception in the spring of 
1978. Besides being at the helm of the Tar
tans, Allen, who played minor league base
ball in the Detroit Tigers organization, is an 
official National League scorer at Three Riv
ers Stadium and also works as a real estate 
appraiser. Despite the teams 1-6 record so
far this season, he has a generally positive 
attitude about the club, noting CMUs 
emphasis on academics over athletics. "I let 
the boys know form day one that their 
courses are more important than baseball, 
Allen says. Indeed, due to course conflicts, 
usually only about 15 of the 22 club 
members are present. This lack of depth 
causes Allen to shuffle his lineup con
stantly, and is, as he sees it, one of the clubs 
major problems. The other hurdle identified 
by Allen is the teams lack of agressiveness. 
He notes that they play "too passively, and 
is working actively to correct the situation.
The baseball club is an unaffiliated team, 
not playing in any league or conference. In 
fact, all the teams CMU plays are varsity 
teams, thus putting the Tartans at another 
disadvantage.
The team is led by junior shortstop John 
Spanos, the team captain and club president. 
He is flanked on the diamond by second 
baseman Jeff "Chico Bergman and either 
John Waugaman or Mark Weinstein at 
third. Steve Orlando, identified by Coach 
Allen as perhaps the teams best hitter, often 
plays at first base, although he can also play 
the outfield. Most of the CMU long ball 
potential is found in the outfield, with centerfielder Bill Yankovitch and rightfielder 
Larry Ropelewski constituting most of the 
threat. The Tartans are also strong behind 
the plate, with junior Rich Theg as the regu
lar catcher, but Rick Divall, a freshman, who 
has impressed Allen with his arm strength, is 
waiting in the wings.
The spot where the club is weakest is on 
the pitchers mound. Due to the reduced fall
squad, Allen is short on hurlers, and with 
junior Dan Colangelo falling victim to tendo
nitis, Rich Hall, a sophomore and newcomer 
to the team, has had to shoulder most of the 
load, starting a majority of the teams games. 
Spanos, Yankovitch, Ropelewski, and club
VP Dan Burgundy are all available to spell 
Hall in the pinch, but it is clear that Allen 
considers him to be the primary Tartan 
starter.
CMU has 7 games left in their fall season, 
two of which are home. The first is against 
Boyce Community College on September 27, 
while their final home contest is against 
Point Park on October 3. Both games are 
3:00 p.m. starts and will be played at Mellin 
Park, Fifth & Penn Avenues, about 1.5 miles 
from campus.
Tennis, cross-country, chess getting underway
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Stafftcriter
Tennis matches will begin on the courtsrts 
behind Skibo Hall on Monday, September 
24th. A record number 26 teams will partici
pate. Matches will take place at 6:30, 7:30 
and 8:30 until October 9, with finals the 
week of October 15.
In other news, a cross country meet will 
be held on October 4 at Schenley Park
Course. The 1.9 mile race will begin at 4:30 
p.m. with a post entry. The intramural office 
is still accepting applications for teams. 
Games will begin at a later date
Chess is back!! The IM chess league will play 
again this year. League play will start at the 
end of the week of October 1. The roster 
deadline has been extended to Thursday, 
September 27. So get your teams together.
DESIGN A CUSTOM CAREER
WITH THE FASTEST MOVERS ON THE CIRCUIT.
Not only is Silicon Systems, 
inc., the nation's #1 independent 
designer/manufacturer of appli
cation specific integrated circuits 
we're also the fastest 
growing company on the 
scene. In fact, we've nearly 
doubled in size and sales in 
the past two years alonel
That kind of industry-leading 
success only comes with 
aggressively seeking the best. 
And we're committed to that. 
In the technologies we pursue, 
as well as in the people we hire.
This high-charged growth is 
something you can be part of, 
contribute to. In an atmosphere 
where imagination, enthusiasm 
and energy are valued and 
encouraged.
So, if you're anxious to make 
your own mark on the expand
ing semiconductor industry. . . 
and design a career customized 
to your personal goals. . make 
your move. With SSi. The com
pany that's proven success 
comes with aggressively 
seeking the best.
Campus interviews will be 
held on October 12, 1984.
Please contact your Placement 
Office for an interview.
Silicon Systems, inc.
1435  Myford Road 
Tustin, CA 92680
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
mmMkms
INNOVATORS IN/INTEGRATION

---------------------------------------------------

Get that Great X
Natural, Distinctive and lotally YOU! 
 
(SfGftCffrCNfconnans
NO
APPOINTMENT
NECESSARY
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon.. Tues.. Wed. 10-7 
Thurv, Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500 
NO APPOINTMENTS
UNISEX HAIR SALON
257 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
M
pp!r
me awosi-fliiia-ma.0 mm
Freshmen interested in Graphic Communications tire 
invited to get a first-hand look at the fantastic 
electronic technology being used by Time, Newsweek, 
U.S. News & World Report, the New York Times and 
other major firms in the New York area. The 
"show-and-tell trip on October 14 to 16 is being 
sponsored by many leading firms across the U. S. 
interested in attracting students to CMU's unique 
Graphic Communications option in the Industrial 
Management Department. If you are a freshman who 
wants to see for yourself, sign up for the trip to New 
York by contacting:
Edward W. Evans, Head
Graphic Communications Management
GSIA Room 203 or 206, Ext. 2313
DEADLINE OCTOBER 6, BUT SPACE IS Util TED!
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
 WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS FROM CMU
 REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
 THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
 THE FAIRFAX" ... 4614 5th Ave.l
 WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
 YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop ini
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU Guests 
to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & 
STUDIO APARTMENTS that could become 
available for Sept., Oct. & Nov. occupancy.
We are open lor your viewing seven days per 
week. PLEASE caH H. M. HARRfTY for YOUR 
appointment: anytime, mil 621-4030M We'tt 
see YOU at "THE FMRMJT ... NaiphHw
INTERVIEWING - WHATS IT ALL ABOUT?
1. How do you prepare for the campus interview?
2. What happens in the campus interview . . . What information 
do employers look for... How is it obtained ... How is it used?
3. What happens after the campus interview . . . How to follow 
up... How to handle a plant or office visit?
These and other questions will be answered in a seminar
? TO BE HELD ON THURSDAY,
? SEPTEMBER 20,1984 at 7:30 P.M.
? IN THE BALLROOM IN SKIBO
PANELISTS INCLUDE:
William J. Kucker, rca 
Al Merry, xerox corporation 
John Masserio, general motorsRATION
ALL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ARE URGED TO ATTEND.
Career Services and Placement 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Us/them psychology infects CM U community
Lhajicei are Greek life is not tor vou. But 
with 20* ot students at CMt* in a fraternity or 
sorority, Greeks: make up one of the largest 
minorities on campus, a minority the rest of 
the campus should know by more than just an 
image.
Too often the CML campus community 
involves itsell in an us them psvchology: dramats vs. non-dramats. hackers vs. nonhackers. faculty vs. students, etc. Most of this 
type of thinking is caused because most of us 
don't really know each other well enough. The
result animosity.
Perhaps the worst example of this kind of 
animosity is between Greeks and independ
ents.
The history of the world has been people 
splitting up into antagonistic groups. Simply 
choosing to go to CMU means you have thrown 
yourself into one group and denied others.
^et the solutions are simple. InterFraternity Council is planning several events 
this year at which the entire campus commun^t^^i^^nvited^,^Siich^^a^ste^deserves
reciprocation.
The freshmen on campus have an opportun
ity to break this prejudice which has existed at 
CMU for years. Every freshman male ought to 
go to at least one party this fall before Rush 
ends, and freshman women will have the same 
opportunity next fall. Talk to several members 
and ask questions. You may not, of course, 
want to join the fraternities.
Greek life is not for everyone. But find out who 
the people behind the letters are. The entire 
campus would be a lot better off.
Equal Time
Miss America contest devoid of credibility
By Leslev Brunker
It vou're looking for anatomical exploita
tion. dont look at the Miss America pageant.-
Most opponants of the pageant charge it 
exploit? women because half its judging critenon is looks. By that standard, 
male beefcake shows such as Mr. 
cfr . Olvmpia and Mr. Lniverse are 
far more profane since men are 
judged solely on appearences.
Millie men are permitted to don small 
speedo tights for the entire contest, women 
are in swimsuits for only one fourth of their 
competition, and the suits are modest mail
lots. not string bikinis.
So. that's that?
Hardlv. These mens competitions are 
endowed with a certain measure of integrity. 
Thev are but physical shows. No contestant 
choirs or chorus lines, no company dance 
numbers, no talent shows, no morals 
clauses, no interviews. Strip and Flex.
Prizes are different. You dont win scho
larships, TV shows or trips to warside soldi
ers  you win cash.
Preparation is different. You dont prac
tise your piano or baton twirling; you dont 
brush up on congeniality and grace. You 
train. You work out. You are therefore 
assumed to have a respectable base of knowl
edge concerning fitness and nutrition. You 
could even write a book . . .
The Miss America pageant degrades 
women not because it is a thinly disguised 
beauty contest, but because it portrays the 
ideal woman as a showcase object.
Sure, candidates are interviewed. Sure 
they must show some culturally significant 
talent. A former Miss USA contestant told 
me part of judging was how well each woman 
got along with the others during rehearsals. 
And to be sure, the prize is an academic 
scholarship, not a monetary sum, making 
this a philanthropic fund-disbursement, not 
a cash quest.
But to whom are these monies going? The 
financially needy? To the most promising 
intellect? To the potential concert pianist?
Famished?
UDS food contract practice 
cheats hungry students
By Michael Ketzenberg
Youre famished. Three hours of studying 
and youre ready to munch, even UDS food. 
But no, wait. You already had dinner five 
hours ago. So, you make quick friends with 
the person in your dorm who 
JfT just brought in four bags of grocjr eries from Giant Eagle.
Seriously though, lets con
sider what we are actually paying for with 
our food service contract and what we are 
really getting. We all have somekind of meal 
plan or another, unless youre fortunate 
enough to have your own cooking facilities 
and the motivation to cook all your meals. 
Whether it is 19, 15 or less, you are paying 
for a specified number of meals per wfeek. As 
specified in the contract, you arent even 
paying for a certain number of breakfasts, 
lunches, or dinners. You merely pay for an 
allotment of meals each week. This imme
diately brings a number of questions to 
mind. For one, what happens to all the meals 
you miss each week? Do we package them up 
and send them to foreign countries like India 
or Bulgaria? I hope they at least receive the 
number of meals per week they are paying 
for.
Also, why not two meals at one sitting? It 
is not stated in the contract, not even in fine 
print. We are informed, however, by an 
accompanied question and answer sheet, 
that we are not allowed do do so. Even if you 
failed to read this sheet you find you are 
unauthorized to eat a second meal. My stom
ach, on the other hand, thinks I'm highly 
authorized.
Keeping thise questions in mind, I spoke 
with Bob Choate, director of food Service 
Contracts. I aaked why we couldnt have two 
meals during one meal period. He replied, 
"Students who have a contract are paying 
for fewer meals than they receive. For exam
ple, a student on a 19 meal plan is actually 
paying for 17 meals a week.The more the 
participation, the more we incur certain 
costs. I looked at a report of the previous 
weeks production. It seems that out of 
17,220 meals offered to the students on a 
15-meal plan, only 14,487 were used. It can 
be clearly seen that the restriciton of only 
one meal per period is based on a coat/profit 
analysis.
Taking this into account, I asked Choate 
why, if we sign a contract for a specified 
number of meals per week, we were not 
allowed to get all the meals if we wanted.He 
didnt have an answer. While he was more 
than helpful in relating the abundance of 
informaiton available on the UDS Service, 
he could not provide an answer to the ques
tion of UDS liability in providing those 
meals as expressed in a signed contract.
Clearly, I fail to see why we cant get what 
we pay for. It seems logical that if we pay for 
fifteen meals a week, we should be allowed to 
get fifteen meals at any time during that 
week. Surely, we can see that dinners cost 
more than breaksfasts. But why then estab
lish a meal contract based on the number of 
meals, rather than the types of meals?
Michael Ketzenbreg is a freshman intending 
to major in Information Systems and is colum
nist for The Tartan.
To the next Sally Ride, Geraldine Ferraro, or The pageant is bent on preserving women
Patti LuPone? in a jar of 19th century parlour values. It1
No. In the early 80s, blacks complained judges women by criterion we would not 
about their exclusion from the pageant. Two dream of applying to men. It shows women 
blacks entered in 1983: they became the that ornamental qualities are more typical 
winner and first runner up. This year, after and desirable than intellect or original 
the incident involving Vanessa Williams and thought. And it should therefore be 
Penthouse magazine, the winner was Miss abolished.
Utah  a Mormon.
Times/CBS survey supports teflon-president theory
By Stuart Shapio As a result, Ronald Reagan can not only
If anyone doubted the validity of the afford to blithely ignore important questions 
words of wisdom I delivered two weeks ago, I of public policy (so boring, those) raised by 
respectfully call your attention to the results his opponent and to avoid any kind of meanof a New York Times/CBS News Poll taken ingful contact with the press, he actually 
last week. They were very illumimanages to gain from such a course. At the
nating in an appalling way. same time, he is using all the power of
The bottom line of the poll incumbency to defuse as many issues as poswas that "a strong personal sible. Hence the meeting with Gromyko arid
image is helping President Reagan win supthe negotiation of "voluntary restraints
port even from those who differ with him on with steel-exporting countries (which 
fundamental issues. Now, just pause for a amounts to protectionism anyway). The 
moment and think about what that means. incredible arrogance and contempt for the
Think of a national issue you care reasonelectorate inherent in such a stance apparably deeply about. (If you cant, you might ently works to his advantage, 
consider finding one.) Now pretend that you So far, many Americans seem distinctly
couldnt care less about it. Which presidenmore concerned with leadership than where
tial candidiate do you prefer? Congratulathat leadership is taking us. It is ironic that a
tions. You have just chosen a president President who takes such pride in moral
based solely on apperances. fiber of America may end up owing his
That is essentially what the attitude second term to a lot of Americans without
reflected in the poll implies. In the grand the courage of their convictions,
tradition of American politics, images have Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in appalways shaped voting patterns. But never to lied history and is a columnist for The Tartan.
this extent. ____________________
"Leadership is no longer a desirable 
quality in a candidate, an obsession. I  
Which isnt to say that Americans have
never submerged their differences on issues Editor in Chief............................Ric Medrow
in order to rally around the President in a Managing Editor ........................Mark Levine
time of national crisis. We did it for Franklin Business Manager............Neil J. Greenblum
Roosevelt during World War II. Currently, News Editor................Christopher D. Lewis
however, we are not in the midst of anything Features Editor..................Neal W. Johnston
that could traditionally be termed a national Entertainment Editor..............Lesley Brunker
crisis. Yet, many Americans are apparently Sports Editor..................................Scott Bozic. c >-  .! i i .1 Photography Editor..................Mike Pilewskiwilling to forego policies with which they ^ ... r ,  . . r f , riJLProduction Manager..........Michele Reisingercan agree for the sake of leadership. M Manag0r ............................ Steve Volan
----------------------.------------------------ Typesetting Manager .................Jill Clelland
Contributing Editor.............. Pauline Wen
V7pil 11U11 J7 Ullty Asst. News Editor........................Karen Gray
Asst. Ent Editor.........................Adam HaninEditorials appear al the beginning of the opinion Assc Bus Manager Bonnie Topf
section, and are the official opinum of Ihe I arProduction Staff: Bob Aarhus, Dennis Cohen,
tan Editorial H(xird. Don Eggert, Mohan Embar, Tina Hatchl, Duane
Columns are the opinions of individual authors Galbi, Arthur Gelmis, Dorothy Lim, Rebecca
who are usually on T"!' Tartan staff, but the Neimark, Jay West
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board
Editorial hoard. reserves the right to withhold from publication any
Letters to the Editor are (tpimons of indixidual copv rt c*eems unfit *or publication. Editofial Offices
authm who air usually members /he Unwrr^. , . , ,, . i . 52, (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412)578-2113.sUycmmunUy. A kUermU^^publuntum ^ ^ PltKbur9h
must be signed and irulude the writer s address pA
and phone number /or verification. Names will Funded by the Activities fan.
be withheld upon request. The Tartan resents AM rights resawed.
the right to condense or reject any letter. ____________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 21
jie Libertarian Alternativeublication regulation otates Constitution
By Dan Tobias
In my previous column I discussed some 
.ys government has violated the First 
endments ban on censorship of the 
ss. My examples then dealt with the ongo
ing attempt to suppress "obsIcene books, magazines and 
movies.
However, there are many 
er areas in which the government nter
es with the peoples right to produce and 
trubute literature of any sort without 
ernment censorship or prior restraint. 
[One example is the regulation of investnt newsletters by the Securities and 
hange Commission. A law authorizes 
s agency to license and regulate "investnt advisors. The law specifically states 
t general-circulation magazines and 
Hwspapers are exempt from this regulation 
Hpn if they provide stock-market tips. HowH:r, the SEC has interpreted this exception 
| y narrowly, and only coniders it to apply 
large-circulation newsstand publications 
|:H as the Wall Street Journal or Barrons. 
Wall investment newsletters sold by subption only have been deemed to be subto this law, and the publishers must 
ain a licence beforehand, and comply 
h a long list of burdensome requirements, 
is seems to clearly represent a prior 
raint on publication, which is contrary 
th the letter and the spirit of the First 
endment. Freedom of press should apply 
ally to somebody publishing pamphlets 
a mimeograph machine in his basement
0 the New York Times. Thus, forcing 
financial newsletters to comply with
Letters:
DOD project inappropriate
Editor:
It has been reported recently in newspap
ers including The Tartan that CMU is trying 
to obtain a hundred million dollar Pentagon 
Project on computer software. As a member 
of the CMU faculty I wish to express my 
strong opposition to the project. I hope oth
ers will join me in opposition.
The purpose of a university is the propa
gation of knowledge and culture to the stu
dent body and the generation of new 
knowledge for the benefit of mankind. Clas
sified research which would be done on the 
proposed project is entirely inappropriate 
for a university.
This project would directly contribute to 
an accelerating arms race which increasingly 
threatens human civilization. It might be 
claimed that improved software would contribute to a more reliable command and con
trol system that would reduce the 
probability of nuclear accidents. If this were 
the purpose of the project it would be a joint 
Soviet-American effort requiring no 
secrecy.
Increasing dependence on Pentagon dol
lars together with increasing security mea
sures desigfied to protect secret work would 
gradually produce a chilling atmosphere on 
campus in which free expression of ideas 
would be increasingly difficult.
I should make it clear that my only infor
mation about this project comes from the 
newspapers. As a member of the faculty I 
was neither consulted nor briefed about this 
important venture.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University ProfessorTobias' arguments off base
onerous restricitons to which the "big boys 
such as the Wall Street Journal are not sub
ject is a blatant assault at our liberties. Some 
statist types would then suggest that the 
Wall Street Journal be regulated too, to 
eliminate this discrimination. But this 
would be like somebody in the 1800s sug
gesting that the problem of slavery can be 
eliminated by enslaving the white people as 
well as the black. The only reasonable 
approach, and the only one consistent with 
the constitution would be to eliminate all 
regulations of investment publications, re
gardless of their size or means of distribu
tion. At present there is a court case pending 
in which a newsletter publisher is making 
just this argument, and hopefully the 
Supreme Court will agree.
The Food and Drug Administration, 
which normally concentrates its efforts on 
restricting what one can put in ones body, 
has also on occasion seen fit to regulate what 
can be put in ones mind. This took place in 
conjuction with their ban on the drug 
DMSO. This is a substance which can be 
legally sold as an industrial solvent, but 
which has not been approved for legal sale as 
a drug, despite reports of all sorts of benefi
cial properties it possesses. I will not go into 
the specifics of drug regulation here, as it is a 
subject which deserves an entire column to 
itself. However, what is relevant here is that 
the FDA has on occasion raided health-food 
stores and seized copies of a book criticizing 
the governments policies regarding this 
substance. Their reasoning is that for a store 
to sell DMSO (labeled as a solvent), and at 
continued page 22
Editor:
Id like to respond to Dan Tobias recent 
articles on the Libertrian philosophy. Dan, 
Im glad youre a math major, because you 
wouldnt cut it as a history major. The idea 
of individual rights has been bounced 
around for a long time, and I like the way 
things are now. Face it, it could be worse. 
Besides, I dont see any Libertarian govern
ments in power right now.
The US government may have been 
founded in the Declaratin of Independance, 
but it was defined in a later document  the 
Articles of Confederation. Having just 
emerged from the rule of a nation "repress
ing their individual rights, the patriots 
were none too thrilled about a strong 
government over the states. They tried a 
weak central government over a group of 
individual states. As history shows, it didnt 
work. No money from the states since they 
always could find something to do with it; 
border clashes over interstate commerce, 
utter chaos. As you recall, this lead to the 
Constitution and a stronger central 
government.
Enough history lessons. Lets look at your 
arguments. Decisions on what we can 
ingest? Youre right. If companies can make 
a profit by adding a chemical to munchies to 
make us want more, why bother them? Sex
ual relations? Absolutely, expecially when 
that prostitute and her John are doing it 
under your window, in the alleys where your 
kids can watch. Limiting entrepreneurs 
ability to provide services desired by consu
mers? Diabolical  expecially when you 
missed the print at the bottom of the screen 
during the "Sleep-off weight overnight ad
 saying that diet program taken concur
rently doesnt hurt.
Hustlers magazine covers? Admitted, a 
ban was the wrong thing but with the right 
intentions. It would have set a bad prece
dent. Movie censorship  hopefully, there 
is a good enough screening in the movie 
industry to slap on the right rating, so 
government intervention never starts. But 
go into a classroom of a middle school 
(grades 7-9) or even elementary school. 
Theres more cursing heard there than in 
most sailors ports. Tell me theres no con
nection. "But the parents dont have to let 
their kids see it! you cry. Right. If he wants 
to see it, the kid will see it with friends, or 
HBO, or somehow. Porno flicks? Yeah, so 
what about the few who believe women 
really want it like that. Ask a New Yorker 
how often rape occurs in the city, and if he 
says less than a few an hour, tell him to 
check again. Of course, thats not just 
movies though  those innocent Hustler/Playboy/Oui magazines might have some
thing to do with it.
How many other countries police read 
you your rights if arrested? How about fed
eral aid for education costs (like $8400 tui
tion)? How about care for elderly? Funds for 
state-declared disaster areas? Funds for 
bankrupt car industries? Equal rights for 
women and non-WASPs of equal talent for a 
position? Check it out, Dan. Our govern
ment isnt perfect. In fact, its the worst, 
except for all the others (if I can steal a 
quote). Tell me if youre running for office
 you can count on me to vote against you.
Albert J. Mauroni 
MCS SeniorComputer package unfair
Editor:
I discovered from the CMU Computer 
Store that anyone who wants to buy a Macin
tosh computer (@ $1050) will be forced to 
buy a Paint/Write software (@ $110) 
together with the machine. I have a friend 
who bought a Macintosh at Harvard Univer
sity at the same discount price and there he
had the freedom to decide whether to buy 
any software or not at his own will. At least it 
seems to me that it is not all that natural to 
sell an "option our way.
Pinckans Hsiung 
ECE Dept.
Grad. Student
search of: The Ultimate Slice of Cheesecake
By Steve Volan
promised myself that I'd keep the topics 
fte a^)out to those of interest to the CMU 
pHity. Alas, however, I have failed in 
Uest and it is with shallow regret that I 
present to you the object of this 
i week's dissertation:
Cheesecake.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I 
covered the joys of cheesecake. I,
too, was once a cheesecake-virgin: stilluninitiated to the pleasures of engaging in 
the act, I disdained cheesecake while my 
family and friends around me reveled in it.
I abstained from it . . . until recently.
One day during this past summer, while 
my brother was in town visiting me, he and 1 
decided to have dinner on the town. We 
went to a nice, if somewhat expensive, res
taurant called the Cafe Cappuccino in the
Bank Center, Downtown, because it was 
directly below the Bank Cinema. After a fine 
dinner, we considered dessert. The prices 
daunted us at first, but, considering what we 
had paid for the main course, we went ahead 
and ordered.
"I'm going to have the cheesecake with 
strawberries," my brother told me. It went 
for $3.25 a slice.
"Wow," I commented. "Is it really that
good?"
"It must be, for $3.25 a slice. Wanna try 
some of mine when I get it?"
"Well, maybe." Then I spotted the entry 
for lemon cheesecake. Remembering my 
penchant for my mother's lemon pound 
cake, I made up my mind. When the waiter 
came, I said confidently, "I'll have the 
lemon cheesecake, please."
24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
Tobias: economic and social issues intertwined
continued from page 21
the same time to sell on another shelf a book 
mentioning DMSOs properties as a drug, is 
a violation of the law forbidding the sale of 
DMSO as a drug. This is despite the fact that 
the individual acts of selling the substance 
and selling the book are both fully legal.
This government action is a dangerous 
precedent. It means that the government 
may be able to seize all sorts of books which 
are critical of any of its policies, by claiming 
that they are instructing people on how to 
violate the law. If a book describes somebody 
being hanged, and the store selling it also 
sells rope, should the store be prosecuted for 
the sale of murder implements?
A final example is the regulations of the 
Federal Election Commission. They have 
imposed all sorts of strict restricitons on 
campaign spending and financing of candi
dates for Federal office. This may not seem 
at first glance to be an invasion of the free
dom of press. However, to produce any 
printed matter takes money, so any limita
tion on how much a candidate is allowed to 
spend restricts his freedom to spread his 
message. A good example is that the maga
zine of the Republican Party, First Monday, 
has stated that they cannot legally endorse 
their own candidates, such as Ronald Rea
gan! This is because if they did, the costs of 
producing the magazine would be counted as
part of the campaign expenditure allowed for 
the particular candidates in question, and 
they are already spending up to their legal 
limit on other forms of promotion. Thus, 
their freedom to determine the content of 
their own publications is infringed by the 
government.
Some of the above examples illustrate the 
point that social and economic freedoms are 
inseparable. If the government makes regu
lations to restrict the ways somebody can 
spend his own money, these inevitibly limit 
that persons freedom to publish his ideas. 
Regulation of investment advisors and cam
paign spending both appear to be primarily 
economic in nature, but as I have shown, 
they also limit freedom of press. This is why 
Libertarians disagree withboth the left and 
right wings; the leftists desire liberty of per
sonal lifestyle, but demand all sorts of social
ist redistributions of income and property; 
while, meanwhile, the right-wingers advo
cate a free market on an economic basis, but 
believe that the government has the right to 
legislate morality and enforce social confor
mity. Libertarians reject both of these incon
sistent positions.
It has been said that the price for liberty is 
eternal vigilance. Thus, all who value free
dom of speech and press should strongly 
resist even the slightest encroachments of 
these freedoms, whether they are instigated
by puritan fundamentalists wishing to 
expunge all mention of sex from literature, 
or by economic regulators wishing to control 
investment advisors. If the government is 
allowed to get away with even the slightest 
censorship, it will inevitibly use this as a 
precedent to extend its power step by step,
until it is even empowered to censor 
columns in campus newspapers which critic
ize the government.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math and 
writes The Libertarian Alternative for The 
Tartan.
President McCormick 
offers suggestions
By Bill McCormick
 Personal Computer (PC) 
networking on campus is alive 
and well. . .well, at least alive. 
Discussions, seminars and 
forums are forthcoming, both this semester 
and next. "Wiring of the campus could be 
finished as early as next fall, but probably 
not until Fall, 1986. The Vice-Provost for 
Computing and Planning, Doug Van Houweling (Warner Hall 313, x2122) is a excel
lent source for further information. (P.S.: 
Rumor has it that the IBM model AT compu
ter will be available here in January.)
 New parking spacesabout 135 of 
themare scheduled to be built in the Morewood lot by sometime in November. People 
not already on the waiting list need not 
apply.
 The Intellectual Property Policy was 
discussed at the Faculty Senate meeting last 
Thursday. The draft presented is nearly in a 
form acceptable to the Faculty Senate. 
Further information about this policy can be 
obtained at the Faculty Senate Office (Baker 
Hall 152, x2820).
More information about the proposed 
Software Engineering Institute (including 
whether or not CMU will contribute $5-8 
million to its development) will be forthcom
ing in a future column, 
e Economic issues:
Its not too early to start writing your 
resume for summer employment. Compan
ies will start to accept them as early as 
October. Seniors have already started to sign 
up for interviews. Call the Career Services 
office (Warner Hall 19C, x2064) for infor
mation. Good luck to everyone.
If you cant wait until summer to start 
earning money, there are places that can 
help you now. Career Services and Student. 
Corp. (Skibo 58, x3535) can help you find 
ways to turn time into money. Ads in The 
Tartan, The Pitt News, and other local papers 
can also be helpful.
If you need a short-term loan you can get 
one from Student Affairs (Warner Hall 206, 
x2074). Bring your ID card (and a good 
reason) to get an interest-free loan of $20- 
$100. Dont forget to pay it back on time.
Finally, if you are really desperate, you 
can donate plasma. It pays $7 the first time, 
and $10 for each additional donation. Call 
682-3190 for more info. At least you can 
study while you earn money!
Im in the Senate office (Skibo 59) every 
Tuesday from 11:30-12:30. You can also 
send me mail (Box 1950 Morewood, or c/o 
Skibo Info Desk) to arrange another time. 
Id be more than happy to talk with you 
anything to put off work.
Bill McCormick is president of student 
government and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
HOMECOMING'84 HOMECOMING'84 HOMEO O00
CD
OO
LU
2OX
00
MR. AND MISS VARSITY
Nominations due by September 28 
See your R.A., dub president, or 
fraternity/sorority representative 
for details
VOTING: October 10th
8:30 am  8:30 pm 
in Skibo
DNIIAI003IAI0H 178, ON IIAI003IAIOH
G)
oo
o
2mOO
Z*8,0

---------------------------------------------------

September 25,1984The TartanPage 23

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanSeptember 25, 1984
columnist tells of the joy of cheesecake
continued from page 21
My brother stared at me incredulously. 
"For someone who doesn't like cheesecake, 
you sure are paying a lot for it."
"Well, like you said, for $3.25 a slice, it's 
gotta be good. Besides," I said in the non
chalant tone of a sage dispensing free wis
dom, "you only live once."
And then the desserts came. 1 hesitated 
momentarily. Was I doing the right thing? 
Once I tried it, would there be no backing 
out? Could I be allergic to it? Could it be 
addictive? Should I have obtained parental 
assent first? Doubt plagued my conscience.
But, thinking only for the moment, I 
ignored my thoughts and took my first bite.
It was incredible.
Now I knew what "cheesecake" really 
meant. I mean, it wasn't gloppy like the 
"-cake" connotes, and yet it wasn't runny 
like the "cheese-" connotes. It was...well, I 
mean ... it was ... cheesecake. "Oh, my God, 
this is great," I gasped, as deadpan as I could 
manage. "So this is what I've been missing, 
huh?"
"Mm-hmphm," my brother mumbled
- through a mouthful of strawberries. "Let me 
try some of that," he asked.
"Okay, let's trade." His cheesecake was 
good, but not as good as the lemon stuff. I 
grabbed my dessert back and wolfed down 
the rest.
Since then, I've been roaming the Pitts
burgh restaurant circuit for a piece of
heaven like I had my first time. I went to 
Gullifty's in Squirrel Hill with a friend, 
where I discovered the popular variation of 
graham-cracker crusts. I even ventured to 
an Eat 'n' Park for a cheaper thrill. But none 
of the places I tried were like that first slice.
The other day I returned to the Cafe Cap
puccino to relive the event. But they served 
it too cold, so it was a little gloppy, and I 
wasn't really that hungry, and I had a head
ache, so I wasn't in the mood. I left 
depressed.
My sights have turned to bigger and better 
things. Houlihan's ought to be good...what 
about the Cafe Azure? Or maybe a place in 
Shadyside? If the Cheese Cellar doesn't 
serve high quality cake, they should be
required to change their name or close down 
pronto. And just think what it might be like 
on Top of the Triangle!
Once I finish off Pittsburgh, someone will 
have to take me to New York City, where 
they say the best cheesecake lurks. Mindy's, 
Ive heard, is the best (or is it their strudel?), 
but I'll have to plunge in myself.
Inquiries as to when the next cheesecakehunting expedition leaves can be addressed 
to me in care of this paper. I suspect another 
safari in search of the Ultimate Slice is due 
shortly. Until then, I think I'm going to call 
home and ask my mom to send me some 
goodies . . .
Steve Volan is a sophomore in psychology 
and is a columnist for The Tartan. .
Is your calculator in the same class you are?
Move up to theTI-66.The easy 512 step programmable.
Youre into higher math and your old 
calculator helped get you there.
But now its time for something more. 
The TI-66 from Texas Instruments. The 
TI-66 offers full programming power and 
flexibility so you can solve complex and 
repetitive math problems quickly, easily 
and with fewer keystrokes than you 
thought possible. Its 512 merged pro 
gram steps and over 170 built-in 
scientific, engineering and statistical 
functions make for powerful program
ming. And the sleek, streamlined design 
makes for easy use.
Its Algebraic Operating System makes 
it easy on your brain by allowing you to 
key in problems as they are written, left 
to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid 
Crystal Display not only makes it easy 
on your eyes but provides alphanumeric 
notation of your program steps so you 
can make easy modifications as you 
go along. There are large, readable keys 
for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow
guideKxik st) you shouldnt get confused. 
And last, but certainly not least, at a 
suggested retail of $69.95, theres a price 
thats easy on your pocket hook.
All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro
grammable calculator any easier to use, 
it would deserve its own degree JLmm
photb y LebslBrhesb
Creating useful products 
and services for you.

---------------------------------------------------

September 25, 1984The TartanPage 25
KEEPUPINA
etingsngh
WORLD I
Take advantage of the wealth of knowledge 
available from your Government. The U.S. 
Government Printing Office has produced a 
new catalog. It tells about the most popular 
books sold by the Governmentnearly 
1,000 in all. Books on agriculture, business, 
children, diet, energy, health, history, 
space, and much more. For a free 
copy of this new catalog, write
New Catalog
Post Office Box 37000 
Washington, D.C. 20013
L_
More people 
have survived 
cancer than 
now live in 
the City of 
Los Angeles.
Please , 
support the 
AMERICAN 
^CANCER 
f SOCIETY
VOLUNTEERS WANTED!!
EXTRAORDINARY TUTORING PROGRAM
Innovative tutoring project for elementary school children (K-5) who have learning problems.-telephone tutoring at University of Pittsburgh location, afternoons 3:00 to 6:00 p.m.-one to one tutoring raining provided. Call 624-6876.
1s a three year federally fundedProject.
ALLEGHENY WOMENS 
CENTERan our patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake Morning After Treatment Birth Control Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
tenter
MrAil Cml il BM* 211 North Whitfield St. NtHburgh. PA ISMtmoNf tu/iu-rai
WHAT DOES A 
TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT DO?
Translates ideas into results for industry and government
Choosing the right career with the right 
company is a major decision... and you 
should look beyond industry to explore 
your options. A consulting career with 
Booz-Allen & Hamilton could be the 
ideal choice.
The work at Booz-Allen is more chal
lenging and diverse than that in industry 
as diverse as international business 
itself. Here, seasoned experts work 
side-by-skle with recently degreed engi
neers in small, interdisciplinary teams. 
Youre involved in every aspect of a proj
ect, not just one narrow area.
If you have the intelligence and drive, 
you can start immediately to use your 
technical education, creative talent, and 
practical knowledge to develop solu
tions for complex client problems. Youll 
work with top level decision-makers to 
improve their operations.
As a consultant you could be involved in 
the development and application of space 
production processes and secure satel
lite communications... or the design of 
local area networks and next-generation 
software. If manufacturing technology is 
your field, you might work on new prod
uct/process development or planning 
the implementation of robotic and CAD/ 
CAM systems.
Sheila Cotter chose Booz-Allen right out 
of school for the challenge and diversity: 
Since joining the firm just over a year 
ago, Ive worked in industrial product 
design for paper processing, in control 
systems for new anti-skid braking sys
tems, and currently in computer aided 
design . Donald Pierce feels, Booz Al
len offers a stimulating environment of a 
different kind. And theyve given me con
siderable freedom to explore new avenues 
in physics which interest me. Charles 
Thomas found, My work at 
Booz-Allen deals with impor
tant, industry-wide concerns in 
telecommunications engineer
ing and policyIm not limited 
to designing circuits in a little 
comer of the industry.
If youre ready to make your 
professional mark, Booz-Allen 
has openings for consultants 
in: management information 
systems; communications, 
electronics and intelligence: 
defense technology: defense 
acquisition and logistics: pub
lic sector management; and 
office automation and manu
facturing technology.
If you have an advanced degree in EE, 
ME, CS or a related technical field, wed 
like to tell you more about the unique 
advantages at Booz-Allen. We also have 
positions for top undergraduates.
Explore your career prospects in Wash
ington, D.C. and other major metropoli
tan areas by writing to: Mr. Michael 
Star, College Relations, Booz-Allen & 
Hamilton Inc., 4330 East-West High
way, Bethesda, MD 20814.
An Equal Opportunity Employer.
Charles Thomas
BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON INC.
Professional excellence...we make a practice of it.

---------------------------------------------------

SEMORS
This is your last chance I
To qualify for the free trip to the Poconos,
you must have your senior 
portrait done by Mood s Image, 
the senior photographer for 
Carnegie-Mel Ion University.
Sign up now in the Skibo Grey Matter 
for your senior portrait
for the October 1st - October I Oth sessions.
Sessions will be held between 9:00 am and 5:00 pm
in Room 45 Skibo.
You may never get another chance like this 
to have a quality portrait doneYou may never get another chance like this 
to win a free week-end to the Poconos.
The drawing will be held October 20th 
All students who sit for senior portraits
by Mood s Image 
will be eligable.

---------------------------------------------------

Joe Freshman By Mark Levine
ONE Of THE NICE TrtiwoS 
ABOf RAV1N6 A lfa.- 
fftlEND IS Trif THIN6S
you 6ft su btnkkk
/(
LlK:"SORR.Y, J CAN'T 
STof> AND TALK, JVf 
&OT TO 60 MffTMf
6m t. FRI EN  ; *
Oft.; "THIS sHIRJ.7
uJk ds ctb id 
su ME QYMy 
&IRLFR.IENI/
OR; " OH, NO, TVf 
SEEN STyFfFD INTO MY 
DRESSER. X BETTfA GET 
OUT QEFO/tf yn SEEN BY
MT 6t(UFftlENr 
v>
oindexter
HF'f I THERMS 
Tvva wvt 
Evezione CALLS
ffmauBeghl1
By Maszle and Beyer
\M\W POTHt'f 
, CAUWH  
FLoUNtW?
ACROSS 1 Edible seed 4 Symbol for tantalum 6 Fed the poker pot 11 Native American 13 Tidier15 Note of scale16 Herzog or Kuenn18 College degree: abbr.19 A state: abbr.21 Entice22 Quarrel 24 Arabianchieftain 26 Unit of Italian currency: pi.28 Devoured29 Title of respect31 Lascivious33 Spanish article34 Projecting tooth36 Judge 38 Pronoun 40 African antelopes 42 Domain 45 Exist 47 Series of tennis games49 Heap50 Chinese faction52 Soaks up54 Note of scale55 Man's nickname56 Postponement59 Parent: colloq.61 Longing 63 Crowns65 Cupolas66 Teutonic
deity 67 Worm DOWN1 Fruit seed2 Riddle3 Paid notice4 South African Dutch5 Cancel6 Incensed7 Born8 Sailors: colloq.9 Latin conjunction10 Argument 12 Negative prefix 14 Badgerlike mammal 17 Seed coating 20 Helps23 Parent: colloq.24 Printers measure25 Tolled 27 Pitcher 30 Provides
CROSSWORDPUZZLE
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
crew 32 Profound 35 Estimates37 Post38 Detested39 Worn away 41 Halt43 S. Amer. animals44 Pronoun 46 Printers
measure 48 Malice 51 Fierce 53 Mix57 Before58 Babylonian deity60 Beast of burden 62 Conjunction 64 Note of scale
1983 United Feature Syndicate. Inc.
SAVE $20. to $30.
ie: 10:00am to 4.00 pmDate: Thursday, Sept. 27th 
Friday, Sept. 28th
Place: Baker Hall 
Deposit: $15.00F HERFF JONES

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
BABYSITTING: I can baby sit for your child in 
my Morewood Avenue home. Any time. Welleducated, responsible, mature. Reasonable rate. 
Call 687-8159.
Looking for Strat-0 players to form various 
sports leagues. Jerry 571-0124.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams 
931-3255
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559- 
$50,553/year. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805- 
687-6000 Ext. R-5563.
Meet interesting people. Play backgammon at 
The College Club. North Craig St. in Oakland at 
7:00 pm every Friday night starting September 7.
Oakland  For rent immediately  large 2- 
bedroom furnished, remodeled apartment 1 block 
from university. $410 plus electricity. 655-1872 
after 5 pm.
Research Papers! 306-page catalog  15,278 
topics! Rush $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho 
#206M, Los Angeles, 90025 (213) 477-8226.
Edgewood condo. 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, w/w 
carpeting, a/c, appliances, 1st floor. $69,900. 
242-8825.
Will type term papers, resumes, etc. at reasona
ble rates. Call Mary Ann at 462-5932.
FLOWERS FOR SALE  Roses $3.95/doz. 
Carnations 75<, Hanging Plants $10. . . more. 
W/Th/F in front of Warner Hall (Forbes Ave.) 
ALEXS FLOWERS.
Wanted  Lisp interpreter for IBM-PC. For 
cash or will trade software. Phone Jim 683-0986, 
leave message.
A&A Secretarial Service  Quality typing, 
low prices, pickup and delivery available. For 
further information call 362-TYPE.
For Sale: Phase Linear 8000 MK2 turntable 
$325. Optonica Analog Tuner $125. Call 683- 
8988 Evenings, Late.
Adoption: Physician and wife, early 30s, seek 
to adopt white infant. Will pay medical and legal 
expenses. Call collect (301) 252-3075.
Hand woven African "book/anything
bags. All sizes and colors. Only $18.95. Call Bob 
682-7508 or leave message 682-9580.
1975 Lancia Beta Coupe. Black with tan 
leather interior. Everything new or rebuilt. Solid 
and clean. $4200 or best offer. Jim 741-2490 or 
421-7854.
My dearest Michael  May you always know 
how special you are to me and how very much I 
love you. I will always be there if you should need 
me. Happy birthday. I love you  Brendalena 
Bedina. P.S. Steak, steak, steak!!
Energetic Male Singer looking to join or form a 
Rock/New Wave band. Very interested in writing 
originals. Call 683-7851.
Its raining. In your last class, you got back your 
red-ink-marked test paper. Your girl just told you 
that she isnt. And you have a term paper that 
needs to be typed. What do YOU do? CALL 
J.A.C.s "Professional Typing Service at 621- 
9751, ANYTIME! We listen. We understand. 24- 
Hour Service.
Karan Kails, B.A., M.A., (Ph. D.)  Editing, 
writing, transcription, manuscript typing, word 
processing: English-French translation, ESL/TESOL, French, English instruction (PA certi
fied) (412) 521-8383.
Women: over 25? In school? New career plans? 
Join Academic Bag Ladies over lunch 12-1:30 
Thursdays  4515 Forbes Ave. Info: 682-6886.
Technics component system including 
receiver, turntable, speakers, and cassette. Cost 
$1300 new. I am selling for $375. Call 241-5594.
Bookcases 2 ft. X 7 ft. and 3 ft X 7 ft. Selling for 
$75 each. 3 available. Call 241-5594.
$20 or more is compensation for simple statisti
cal analysis of medical study: median, standard 
deviation, chi square and graphs. Work on your 
own time. Call 621-5150.
1 br. apartment for rent available Oct. 1st. 
Regent Square area near Ryans Pub. Spacious 
livingroom, dining room, one bedroom, bath, eatin kitchen, porches, fenced yard, optional garage. 
Hard wood floors, stained glass, etc. Convenient 
to grocery and Regent Square. Pets permitted. 
260/month plus utilities. Call evenings 247-1921.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one bed
room remodelled with new kitchen and bath. 
Ideal for two students to share. Only $340 per 
month, including utilities. CMU shuttlebus ser
vice at front door. 682-7010.
Mailing lists with names and addresses of com
panies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto labels with your "Motto 
on them. Sember Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your Motto $5.00. Chigago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, Pa 15216.
Students selected for awards in the 1985-1986 
Nat ional Science Foundation Minority Graduate 
Fellowshilp competition, conducted for NSF by 
the National Research Council, will receive sti
pends of $11,100 for a twelve-month fellowship 
tenure instead of the current $8,100 stipend. This 
recent announcement by NSF also revealed that 
the cost-of education allowance to the institution 
chosen by the Fellow for graduate study will be  
increased from $4,900 to $6,000.
The deadline date for the submission of appli
cations for NSF Minority Graduate Fellowships 
will be November 21, 1984. Further information 
and application materials may be obtained form 
the Fellowship Office, National Research Coun
cil, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 
20418.
North Hills Passavant Hospital is looking for 
"Works of art from local artists for the hospi
tals next Art for Passavant Receiving Day on 
Sunday, September 30. For more informaiton call 
the Volunteer-Auxiliary Office at 367-6580.
October 7,8  Carnegie-Mellon Chamber 
Orchestra, Werner Torkanowsky conducting, 
8:00 pm, Alumni Concert Hall, college of Fine 
Arts, Carnegie-Mellon University.
Ensemble "SVADBA, Pittsburghs Yugoslav 
Folk Song & Dance Company is currently seeking 
individuals who are anxious to be involved with 
dance, music, performance! The company is pres
ently accepting applications for the dancers 
Understudy Program and for the musicians per
forming group.
Accept the challenge and call or write for 
further information to: Ensemble SVADBA, PO 
Box 3682, Pgh., Pa. 15219, 922-5150, 751-1521. 
Call Today!
Learn how to study, take four one-hour sessior, 
study skills workshop sponsored by Counseling 
and Student Development Center, Tuesdays 
Sept. 25 to Oct 16. Major topics will be time 
management, study methods, relaxation tech. 
niques, study motivation and exam preparation 
Register at Morewood Gardens, E-Tower Room 
103 or call 578-2922, 8:30 am-5:00.
Aldo Tambellini, internationally known video 
artist from MIT will be on campus next week to 
conduct a workshop in video and communie* 
tions art. On Tuesday evening, the 25th of Sej 
tember, 8:00 pm, in the Adamson Wing, Bak< 
Hall. His presentation of video tapes will jHUs. 
trate his talk entitled "Communicationsphere.
Very lonely and mature person, seeks exchange 
of letters with anyone that is willing to corres
pond. My hobbies are weightlifting, music, cor. 
responding, football, and am a master c 
player. All letters will be answered. Joseph Claggett 06018-016, P.O. Box 34500, 1101 John A. 
Denie Road, Memphis, Tennessee 38184-0550.
In conjunction with Higher Education Weel 
(Oct. 13-20), the College and Univeristy Publii 
Relations Association of Pennsylvanij 
(CUPRAP) has announced its third annud 
Minorities in Communications Scholarshi 
Program.
Two $500 scholarships will be awarded in mid 
December to minority students majoring in 
communications field such as journalism, broad 
casting, English, speech, public relations, masi 
communications, etc.
To get an application, students should contac 
the office of public relations at their institutio 
or write to: Minorities in Communications Schc 
larship, CUPRAP, 800 North Third St., Harris 
burg, Pa. 17102.
The Skibo Information Desk
miscellaneous receives lost items such as
keys and IDs.October 24  Jazz Ensemble Concert, Randy 
Purcel, director, 7:30 pm Skibo Ballroom, 
Carnegie-Mellon University. Donation $2.00.
NEEDED 
IMMEDIA TEL Y:
Tutors for 
Chemistry*
English 
Linear Circuits 
Thermodynamics 
Please contact Gwen Harris 
CM AT x2151
*must be a graduate student
Please check 
with the Information Desk if 
you have lost something.
C41 ^75'2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A
