Swimming Team 
Completes 
Undefeated Season 
See Page 6
_John J. John, Jr.
Encounters 
Financial Trouble 
See Page 3
VOL. 46No. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MAR. 3, 1953
Chair Fillers In Many Council Seats
McNaughton Is Chapel Speaker, 
Topic To Be Washington, 1953
Time Magazine (Washington) Correspondent,
To Address Assembly On Tuesday, March 10
Frank McNaughton, political correspondent for Time magazine 
will speak on March 10, at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts little theater. 
His topic win be Washington, 1953. A regular panel member of 
the Meet the Press television program during the past two years, 
Mr. McNaughton has been report-^---------------------------------------------
ing Congress news longer than 
most of its members have been in 
office.
He joined the Washington Bu
reau of Time in 1941, after serv
ing for many years as the Capital
Frank McNaughton
Next weeks chapel speaker
reporter for the United Press. His 
wide and intimate knowledge of 
official Washington is reflected in 
the fact that he initiated for Time
Foundation 
Gives Awards
The Alfred P. Sloan foundation 
has chosen Carnegie Tech and 
three other schools of science and 
engineering in the country to par
ticipate in a remarkable national 
scholarship program. The other 
colleges -are California Institute of 
Technology, Cornell Univeisity, 
and Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology.
Under the Sloan National Schol
arship plan outstanding high school 
students all over the country twill 
be awarded potential, and scientific 
promise. These men are planning 
to enter college in the fall of 1953.
Prejudice
On Sunday, March 15, at the
Carnegie Union, several 
groups on campus will hold 
an informal discussion on 
prejudice. A movie, The High 
Wall, will be shown at 7:30 
p.m., and Mr. A. Daily, a psy
chology instructor at Carne
gie, will lead the discussion. 
Refreshments and a social 
half hour will follow.
The groups sponsoring the 
affair are Hillel, Newman 
club, YMCA, YWCA, Tech 
Christian Fellowship, Teknon, 
and Canterbury club.
3 cover stories including such 
memorable ones asJDean Acheson, 
Paul Douglas, and Senator Robert 
Taft. His Man of the Year story 
on General Marshall prompted 
Mrs. Marshall to call it, The most 
definitive story on the General I 
ever read. It really captures his 
spirit.
While working a 16 hour day as 
a Capital Hill reporter, Mr. Mc
Naughton still found time to bring 
his experience and knowledge of 
political affairs to other projects, 
such as the 1948 national conven
tions which were telecast by Time 
and Life, and more recently the 
celebrated Kefauver Crime charges 
in 1951. He attended the Univer
sity of Missouri where he majored 
in literature, history, and philoso
phy.
T ickets
Beginning March 14, the 
Drama department will pre
sent William Shakespeares 
historical plays, Henry IV 
Parts One and Two. The two 
parts are complete plays in 
themselves and will be given 
individually, but together 
they compose a fairly accurate 
picture of life under the reign 
of King Henry IV.
The first part will open next 
week and run from March 14- 
20. Then part two will run 
one week from March 21 to 
March 26, after which both 
plays will run for two more 
weeks, alternating perform
ances. The dates for tickets 
available to Tech students are 
as follows:
Part OneMarch 14, 16, 17, 
18, 19, 20, 27, 28; April 1, 9, 
11 (matinee only), and 15.
Part TwoMarch* 21, 23, 24, 
25, 26; April 10, 11, 15 (mat
inee only), 16, and 18.
(Note: Only one matinee 
performance for each part).
Tickets will be distributed 
for both parts at the Drama 
department office at 4:00 on 
Tuesday, March 10, 1953.
Tech Debaters Place Second 
In Annual Debate Competition
Carnegie Tech debaters chalked up on of their finest tourna
ment showings in some years by placing second in the annual com
petition of the Debate Association of Pennsylvania Colleges held in 
Bethlehem, Pa., at Lehigh University on February 20 and 21. Out 
of the 27 schools represented, Pitt4 
took place by a very narrow mar
gin.
Winning 9 debates while drop
ping only one in the preliminary 
rounds, Tech entered the semi
finals with Pitt, the University of 
Pennsylvania and Duquesne.
Here the Carnegie debaters 
downed Duquesne on both nega
tive and affirmative sides, Pitt do
ing likewise to Penn. Advancing to 
the final contest (aptly termed the 
battle of Forbes street), Tech 
could manage no more than a 
split, the affirmative winning and 
the negative losing, for a final 
record of 12 victories and 2 de
feats.
The tie was broken by the judges 
ratings of the two teams in the 
final rpund, giving Pitt the deci
sion 61-58. This entitles them to 
the Talon trophy for one year.
Carnegies affirmative duo. were
Playhouse Comedy 
The Royal Family
Is Big Success
The Pittsburgh Playhouse add
ed another comedy to its string of 
laugh successes when The Royal 
Family opened at the Hamlet 
Street theater on Saturday, Feb
ruary 28. It is a comedy written by 
George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber about an American theater 
family which resembles the fam
ous Barrymores.
The production is being staged 
by Robert Bardwell and features 
William Putch, Marcelle Feiner, 
Alma Lind, and Orrin Redfield in 
leading roles. _
Jay Claster, senior IM, and Dick 
Christensen, sophomore, physics 
major. Jim Langer, also sopho
more physics, and John Barclay, 
sophomore chemistry, argued the 
negative.
Coach Richard Oswant, instruc
tor in the English department, ac
companied the team to Bethlehem, 
and praised all four members for 
their fine work.
Four Symptoms Make 
For Stupid Council9
by Dick Franklin
Last Wednesday afternoon Student Council was hon
ored by the presence of six German students who are tour
ing American colleges observing student government in 
action. As a token of their good will and friendship they
------------------------------------------------?presented Student Council with a
stein, which incidentally will hold 
one full liter of beer.
Among the topics of discussion 
were the Scotch n Soda budget, 
which Council approved, possibili
ties of starting a Junior Chamber 
of Commerce on campus and dis
cussion of the blood drive to be 
co-sponsored by the Newman club 
and Student Council.
Chamber of Commerce 
The discussion concerning the 
Junior Chamber of Commerce 
came in the form of a report from 
Mr. Sebulsky. He reported that 
the group was to be composed of 
campus leaders, who were to un
dertake campus and community 
projects. It was pointed out that 
similar groups were anticipated at 
Duquesn^ University and also the 
University of Pittsburgh. Although 
discussion is still being carried on 
it was felt that there were more 
than an ample number of activities 
on campus, which would make it 
difficult to get a suitable number 
of active members. Oh yes, there 
[Continued on page 3]
Sing & Swing 
Is March 13-14
Greek Sing and Swing, that 
long-awaited-for weekend of song 
and dance, is just around the cor
nerMarch 13 and 14, to be exact. 
The annual sing competition will 
take place, as* usual, in Carnegie 
Music Hall at 8 p.m. On the fol
lowing night, fraternity men and 
women will dance to the music of 
Bill LeRoys combo at Greek 
Swing in Syria Mosque.
The dual events are sponsored 
by PanHell and CFP, under the 
co-chairmanship of Mary Jane 
Troop and Tom Nathan.
A capella will be the keynote of 
the concert, with participants 
guided only by a pitch pipe. Each 
group has chosen one number 
from a prepared list of songs of 
equal difficulty and a second se
lection of optional choice.
The judges will appraise the 
fraternities and sororities profes
sionally, using only such stand
ards as blending, tone quality and 
showmanship as the basis for de
cision. Although costumes, may be 
worn by the groups if so desired, 
they will in no way influence the 
judges.
Three awards will be given to 
the winning fraternities and three 
to the sororities. Announcement 
of the winners will be made at 
Greek Swing on Saturday, March 
14.
Heading the Swing decorating 
committee is Nancy Calloway. The 
[Continued on page 8]
Around The Town
PLACE: Tech Canterbury 
House, 5710 Margaret Mor
rison Street.
TIME: Sunday, March 8,
1953.
EVENT: Prof. George F. 
Parker, Visiting Professor of 
Philosophy at PCW, will dis
cuss the book, The Christian 
In Philosophy, by J. V. 
Langmead-Casserly at 6:30 
p.m. Buffet supper will be 
served from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m.; 
price 60c.
Obituary
AI Cerrito, Junior IM StudentT 
Dies Of Rare Virus Infection
The sudden death of Alfred M. Cerrito, industrial management junior from Hoboken, New 
Jersey, was a shock .to many Tech students. According to Dr. S. K. Hall, school physician, the 
twenty-year-old died of a non-infectious and non-contagious type of virus which invaded a part 
of his brain.
One case in 100,000 of this type of virus infection will affect the brain and prove fatal," 
he said. On Wednesday, February 26 at 3:30 p.m., A1 was found in a state of convulsion and was 
taken to Shadyside hospital. Failing to respond to treatment, he never regained consciousness and 
died at 8:20 a.m. Friday, February 28.
The very suddenness and virulence of Als death is evident. He had complained of a slightly 
sore back for a few days before the attack. He had played basketball on the Tuesday night be
fore his attack. On Wednesday, he complained of being fatigued and so stayed home from class, 
but did not seem sick enough to go to the doctor. After he was taken to the hospital, according 
to Dr. Hall, every possible treatment was tried in an effort to save him. Nothing could arrest the 
advance of the attack.
A1 was an active man on campus, especially in athletics. He played varsity basketball for two 
years, winning his letter the second year. In intramural sports, he played basketball, softball, 
volley ball and football. He was a member of the Varsity C club, the Newman club, and the 
Y.M.C.A. An Alpha Tau Omega, he was social chairman during his sophomore year.
Al's body was sent home Friday evening to Hoboken where the funeral services were held 
today at 10:30 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1953*
Legation Bombing Is Red 
Anti-Semitism Excuse
by Professor Robert Schwarz
One of the most telling changes in international developments 
in the month of February was the diplomatic break between Israel 
and Soviet Russia. The ostensible reason given by the Soviet foreign 
office for severing relations was the bombing of the Soviet legation 
by Israelis who in this way protested against the anti-Semitism of 
the Kremlin. Israels Prime Minister suspects the Communists them
selves of doing the bombing, in order to create an incident, but it is 
not certain whether this is accurate.. ?
Chain Of Events
Some experts and students in the international field aver that 
this move is a link in a chain of diplomatic maneuvers on the part 
of Moscow to win the good graces of the Islamic world; others say 
it is designed to justify anti-Jewish measures behind the Iron Cur
tain. Both may be right. The former argue that Stalin has aban
doned Israel to the Western world and therefore is putting his propa
ganda that she is a US satellite into'practice. At the same time that 
Moscow is trying to impress the Arab league with Jew-baiting and 
anti-Zionism it endeavors to counteract this trend by sending two 
high-ranking Jews from satellite countries to, the UN assembly and 
by accusing the United States of anti-Semitism in the Rosenberg 
case.
Soviets Furnish Explanations
The answer to this apparent inconsistency is promptly furnished 
by the Kremlin: We are not anti-Semitic, only anti-Zionist, else 
for example, should we keep a man like Rakosi as top man in Hun
gary? This answer, Stalin and Vishinsky may feel, will at once sat
isfy the protests of the Western world and the Arab league, which is 
also more interested in opposition to Israel than to world Jewry.
The diplpmatic break with Tel Aviv then has given rise to the 
hypothesis that the Kremlin is recasting its entire near and middle 
east policy in the direction of a co-ordinated drive to win the support 
of the Mohammedan countries from Morocco to Pakistan.
By standing unequivocally on the side of the Moslem world 
(against Britain in Iran and Egypt, against France in northwest 
Africa) and by identifying Israel as a tool of the Anglo-Americans, 
Russia may hope (a) to prevent Egypt from joining the defense belt 
on the side of Turkey and Greece and (b) to draw out an IranianBritish understanding. In this respect the agreement between Britain 
and Egypt in the Sudan question may be chalked up as an encroach
ment on the initiative of Soviet foreign policy.
Whatever the interpretation of the diplomatic break with Israel 
may be, that is to say, whether it should be explained more from 
the domestic or the foreign point of view, it is probably part of a 
broadly conceived policy. If nothing else, the brusque and ready
made rejection of Israels apology makes it obvious that the Soviet 
foreign office had planned this move with the circumspection and 
long-range view with which it has conducted cold war strategy 
since 1946.
Bulletin Board
'Religion In The Family1 Topic 
For Coming Discussion Week
Religion in the Family is the 
main topic of the campus-wide 
Religious Discussion week sched
uled for March 17 through 22. All 
campus organizations are working 
on their plans for observing the 
program. Speakers, discussion 
leaders, and panels are prominent 
in the plans for the group meet
ings. A main speaker for chapel on 
Tuesday, March 18, will be an 
nounced later. Co-ordinator of the 
entire program is the campus 
YMCA, with Skip McLean serving 
as the chairman.
Cameron Choir Plans To Give 
Concert Soon At Music Hall
Cameron choir will again pre
sent an entertaining concert this 
year on March 20 at the Carnegie 
Music hall. The program which 
will be announced in next weeks 
issue will be as outstanding as that 
of last year.
The Cameron choir which was 
organized last September is com
posed of both male and female 
students on campus. Mr. Richard 
L. Camp, head of music education 
in the Wilkinsburg schools, is the 
conductor of the group.
eamaee'R
for
Rligo nIe'hn
RgnaFn'F ly hl1 pa1c1r
CDsCDuDWkPkGvDu tGSS AD MDCD kH GWkDCvGDt 
DWbGWDDCGWb uDWGHCu
IHWdPfT IPCM w
Attractive Salaries. Career Opportunities 
Excellent Working and Living Conditions
.HC nssHGWkODWk hHWu-Sk BH-C 
USPDODWk lNNGD aHt
Pictures
Students who have ordered 
three or more portraits from 
Gimbels Photo Reflex studio 
may^ret in on the special list
ed below:
123 x 4 matt-glossy pic
tures$3.00.
243 x 4 matt-glossy pic
tures$5.00.
363 x 4 matt-glossy pic
tures$7.00.
These are the same as those 
ordered as identification pic
tures.
Scholarships
Scholarship applications for 
the academic year 1953-54 are 
now available in the Dean of 
Mens office. They are to be 
returned no later than April 
10, 1953.
Hie easiest-writing 
portable ever built!
Royal Portable holds the official World's 
Portable Speed Championship a shown 
In the current World's almanac.
See it Here
Terms as low as SJ.25 Weekly
.l'g Ugg
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320
 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
Lecture Series 
At YM & WHA
The spring semester of the Isaac 
Seder Educational center of the 
Oakland YM&WHA offers many 
programs of interest this week.
Dr. Ralph Zabarenko, psychi
atrist, and his wife, Dr. Lucy Zab
arenko, psychologist, will give a 
presentation of Marriage: Its
Pleasures and Problems, on Tues
day evening, March 3. Together 
they will analyze the necessary 
adjustments of personalities in 
marriage. An open discussion will 
follow the formal presentation.
The world of Shakespeare will 
be recreated by Professor Astere 
E. Claeyssens in his' talk on 
Shakespeare and Antony and Cle
opatra Thursday evening at 8:15. 
Creating from a world no man has 
made, but never abandoning it, 
Shakespeare made many worlds 
within it. Antony and Cleopatra 
is the largest of these worlds.
visrm
ItKMattf
<av*Y
-AU. THE
SMART VWLB ?o!
RDCvGWb IPCfSPWd# lMGHT UDWWufSvPWGPT 
jGCbGWGP PWd Duk jGCbGWGP NCHO
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-1800
Books
Did you forget to pick up 
your book* or money from 
book exchange? APO has 34 
books and over $8.00 waiting 
for their owners. For those 
who didnt have an opportun
ity to go to the book ex
change on its final day, APO 
will open for one more day, 
tomorrow, March 4, from 
11:30 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. The 
exchange will be located in 
the hall leading to the swim
ming pool and opposite theathletic office in the Gym.
.HC Better 
Dry Cleaning11
_oli'
Re'jhe
%hPOs-uhSDPWDCu
93,w .HCADu Rk1
ROUGHT DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
'W 
12 Inch
Iegny 'iye'R 
.'ee kH nSS 
h11g1 Rk-dDWku
h
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-year Course
leads to 
Master's 
Degree
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Send for Bulletin C
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
hPOs-u PsDCu 
PSS NHC hHD
There's plenty of need for refreshment 
when Freshmen are "making the grade. 
What better fits the moment 
than delicious Coca-Cola?
Have a Coke 1
VO L.44DR INIs
SOTTIID UNDt# jMrmomv f Tea mm'Rma' mli'go nI 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.. PITTSBURGH, PA.
LLhHDY   CDbGukDCDd kCPdD_OPC1 _______________________________________ 1933, TH COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March S, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPare t
Broke A Ichemist Finds 
Old Books Unsalable
by John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
I awoke last Sunday morning with a painful cramp in my right 
.bow and the feeling that my mouth has been used as a garage for 
farm machinery. But as I thought back to the events of the pre
vious evening at the Beta Theta Omega fraternity house, and the
multitude of depraved but high-4-----------------------------------------------
ly interesting people with whim I 
had associated, I concluded that 
this was perhaps an equitable
price to pay for such entertain
ment, provided it is not inludged 
in to excess.
But in the events of the next 
few days, my social life was to be 
eclipsed by economic considera
tions. My banker (a Mr. Mellon 
of Fifth avenue) had recently de
cided that the unilateral method 
with which I had been managing 
my checking account was not to 
his liking. Therefore he had sug- gested I either return the money 
Vthat had been derived from my 
last few checks, or else find some 
new money to replace it.
Consult An Expert
In order to sooth the wrath of 
this venerable gentleman, I de
cided to seek out a source of funds 
to refill his coffers.
In cases of this kind it is well 
to consult someone trained in the 
field of economics. So I naturally 
^thought of a friend of mine who 
is enrolled in the School of Indus
trial Administration.
My friend lives in a chair in the 
IA building lounge, and derives his 
income by collecting the loose 
change that falls from pockets in
to the cracks in other chairs in 
the lounge. I thought perhaps he 
would be able to recommend a 
method of fund gathering which 
would involve little or no effort.
 The IA Method
I found my friend at home Mon
day morning, woke him from a 
deep sleep, and presented him 
with my problem. After asking a 
prepared series of questions de
signed to make the questionee be
lieve th questioner is artfully 
getting to the bottom of the prob
lem (a technique taught by his 
department, I understand), he ar
rived at the solution which no 
^doubt had been filling his mind 
from the beginning.
Srtaightening his plaid tie, and 
squaring the shoulders of his gray 
flannel jacket, he looked intently 
at me through his horn rimmed
glasses and muttered his wisdom, 
Why dont you sell some of your 
textbooks? Then he returned to 
sleep.
I was awestruck by the penetra
tion of his analysis, and after wak
ing him and thanking him pro
fusely, I went off to do this very 
thing.
Whitman Revisited
My eyes fell first on Professor 
Whitmans tables, all the occult 
secrets of the universe crammed 
into 19 pages and bound in attrac
tive green paper. I started to spec
ulate as to the price of such a vol 
ume would bring from an unsus 
pecting freshman who does not 
know that copies (though not fine 
first editions such as the one 
own) are available for two bits at 
the bookstore. But my heart soft
ened, and I decided not to part 
with this eternal friend of the en
gineering student.
As a sidelight I might suggest 
that Professor Whitman put out 
a microfilm edition of this book for 
use at closed book examinations.
Lesser Books
Next I thought of my lovely 
red and blue backed economics 
book, called Bowman and Bach 
by those who should know, 
reached for it and removed the 
flowers I had been pressing in it 
for the past three years. But sud 
dently I remembered that a higher 
power had decreed that this book 
should no longfer be used by eco
nomic students. It is obsolete. I re 
placed the flowers and continued 
to hunt through my bookcase.
Next came something my in
structor always called your 
French book, which was obvious
ly a misnomer, judging from the 
nature of the course in question. 
Perhaps the instructor was in the 
wring class all semester, I do not 
know. .But nostalgia for the days 
gone by forbade me to sell this as 
well.
Tacitus For Sale
I passed by such volumes as 
John Browns Body, Of Human 
and Balchs Modern Bi
ographies in hopes that I might 
someday have a chance to read 
them.
All in all, most of my books are 
of such sentimental value to me or 
are so obsolete, or both, that I 
could not bear to part with any 
of them, with the possible excep
tion of a copy of Tacitus which I 
bought several years ago in an 
abortive passion of eagerness t do 
a thorough job in an obscure his
tory course, the name of which I 
forget, and which would be too 
long to quote here anyway.
So I carefully returned my 
books to their proper plaees, re
solved never to sell them, and 
went across the hall to borrow a 
postage stamp so that I could ap
ply for a loan from my father, 
who, I thought, would be so glad 
to finally get a letter from me that 
financial relief would be immedi
ately forthcoming.
P.Areyou~ nc/agecl ?
Then prepare for your honeymoon 
now. Most resorts will be full if 
you wait. Thousands of collegians 
from all over the United States 
have happy memories of a little 
cottage all their own, terrific 
meals and friendly folk met here. 
Mention dates, and we'll send our 
helpful Three Honeymoon Plans.
gMD .PCO HW kMD oGSS
Swiftwater 97, Pa.
Council Personalities
tContinued from page 1] 
were another reason many people 
on Council felt the scheme would 
not work well, the annual dues 
are $15.
While a few members of Coun
cil seem to be carrying the full 
load of Councils business there 
are those who are Sitting on their 
laurels. I have no doubts that 
Mr. Christensen will endeavor to 
prompt Council to action, in an ef
fort to fill his pledge of service to 
the student body. This is no doubt 
a worthy ambition, however, re
gardless of how much Mr. Christ
ensen may fuss and fume and 
push the members of Council 
Council can only be as good as the 
individuals who comprise it. If 
Council is to be of service to any
one, then the members of Council 
must do more than fill a chair ev
ery Wednesday afternoon.
Ten Percent
It has been my experience with 
Council that only about 10 per
cent of the membership is active. 
Now what of this other ninety per
cent? They inflict a disease on 
Council I am going to term chair 
filler. Let me point out a few 
of the symptoms of this disease. 
One of the early and deadly symp
toms is the prestige symptom. 
This is when the members of 
Council begin to believe that there
is prestige connected with being 
a member of Council, but fail to 
realize this is only won by hard 
work.
A second would be the me first 
symptom. This is noticed in th 
members who believe that they 
are the ones with the only good 
ideas and things should be done 
their way or not at all. A third is 
the silent sussie symptom. Here 
the member comes to Council, 
seats himself or herself, quietly 
folds his or her hands and sim
ply waits foV the motion for ad-* 
jourment and votes yes on every 
occasion possible.
The Busy Bee
A fourth is the busy bee symp
tom. Here the member comes to 
Council to either pile up points for 
an activities key or some other 
equally selfish reason, but when 
he or she is asked to do something 
he is entirely too busy or say that 
he will do the job but when com
mittee reports for the following 
week come up his is real short and 
sweet, no report.
If Council wishes to be, it can 
be the most powerful force on 
campus. It is the meeting place 
of all the sub-groups on campus 
and, if on any issue, Mr. Christen
sen can muster the entire support 
1 of these groups I can see no sit1 uations that can stop them.
When Grover talks to his dreamboat  something click
A call from Dreamboat always clicks with 
Grover. And an Automatic Message Ac
counting machine has been clicking too  
down in the telephone office busily 
punching impressions on a paper tape.
You may be interested in what this 
ingenious recorder does. It keeps track of 
what telephone number you called, how 
long you talked, and records this informa
tion in such a way that another machine 
can automatically prepare a monthly bill.
The development of this new automatic 
accounting machine is the result of teamwork by Bell Telephone Laboratories, 
Western Electric and the telephone com
panies. Telephone people working on this 
and other interesting and important proj
ects were in college just a short time ago. 
Perhaps youd like to join them.
Your Placement Officer can give you de
tails about employment opportunities in 
the Bell System. Or write to American 
Telephone & Telegraph Company, College 
Relations Section, 195 Broadway, New 
York 7, N. Y, for a copy of the booklet, 
Looking Ahead.'*
Bell Telephone System
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Yoi''IUo*E trumpeted Sheedy, "What a elephant time to 
have my hair act up. Might as well break my date and get 
trunk! Luckily he was overheard by a Pachydermitologist who 
said, "Tusk, tusk! Youve got a messy big top from pouring 
those buckets of water on your head. Get out of your ivory tower 
and visit any toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot 
Cream-Oil, "Your Hair* Best Friend. Non-alcoholic. Contains 
soothing Lanolin. Relieves dryness. Remove* loose, ugly dan
druff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Paul got Wildroot 
Cream-Oil, and now all the girls tent to him more than ever. So 
why dont you try Wildroot Cream-Oil? It only costs peanuts
^ 29f. And once you try it, youll really have a circus.
- * oflilSo. Harris HiURd., Williams til It, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

ra*e 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1953
LetterK
Empty Cases
Editor, the Tartan:
It always amazes me when I walk into the new 
SIA library and notice all the empty shelvesand 
what few books that are really in the library.- But 
it disgusts me when I am trying to do a little re
search on a problem connected with one of the 
many courses taught in the IA school, and I am 
forced to go down to the Carnegie Library or over j 
to the main library on campus to do my work.
Although I know it would be impractical to im( / s
mediately set aside money to completely fill the / 
library, I cannot see why some of the more im
portant books dealing with many of the everyday 
problems encountered in the IA school couldnt 
be collecting dust instead of the pretty, but empty 
cases.
When I first began taking books out of the new 
library I appreciated the different (and logical) 
hours that were required for their return. The 
main library never lets a reserve book go out be
fore the middle of the afternoon, and fellows living 15 miles from campus without Saturday classes 
are still required to make the trip in on Saturday 
to return the books. I suppose the reason for the 
Mains hours are so students will be able to read 
the book in the library, but none of the students 
in my classes ever sit down to read a book in the 
librarythey wait until the night it can be 
taken out, and read it at home. j
But, returning to the original subject, with 
the nicely equipped study rooms and lounge in 
the SIA building, its a shame that we cannot find 
the books necessary to do our studying there in
stead of having to tramp to and study in the noisy, 
bigger libraries.
Sincerely,
Captain of Industry.
Library Noise ClT Cultural Center
*' With the announcement by the city of Pittsburgh last
Editor, the Taitan. week of the new open-air theater, opera house, and play-This may come as a surprise to some of the .. r ,_i^
freshmen at this institution, but there are people bouse to be built around the base of the Golden Tnagle, a
enrolled here other than they who occasionally, slight wave (such waves are always slight at Tech) of
opinion drifted through the Skibo smoke as to what degree 
of a cultural center Pittsburgh was destined to become. Stu
dents were elaborating on how good the future Techites 
would have it, now that bigger operas, plays, and lectures 
would be coming to Pittsburghbringing to mind a certain 
cigarette companys ads concerning snap predictions. Al
though a few of these students realize what Carnegie Tech 
offers right here on campus, the majority were essentially 
talking through their hats since they do not take advantage 
of ten percent of the opportunities afforded at the present 
at CIT.
have to do outside reading as requirements for 
their courses. Much of this reading isor at least 
should bedone in the library.
But unfortunately the library very often sounds 
more like a bar during rush hour than a place of 
study. Tablefuls of exuberant underclassmen find 
it quite enjoyable to get together and discuss first 
their classwork and later most anything. It gets 
so one is surprised not to find a pitcher of beer 
on the table among the babbling crowd.
I am not trying to place the blame on anyone 
in particular. The librarians make a valiant at
tempt to keep the noise down to a gentle roar. 
The offending students are probably not inten-No one is intending here to open himself to the argutionally annoying. And the administration probably j ment that Tech students have it so rough, but just directing
has never set up a place in which such idle con, i_______________  this opinion to those who seem to be more intent on lm-vprcatmnc ran gD on without bothering anyone ^  ,, . . . . . .pressing their friends than talking within the realm of*reaINQUIRING REPORTER
Students Suggest 
Better Sports Coverage
by Dick Wolfe
Following last weeks letter to the Editor con
cerning the coverage given varsity sportsin the 
Tartan, the question asked this week by the in
quiring reporter was What do you think about 
the ratio of intramural and varsity sports cover
age in the Tartan and what do you suggest should 
be done to improve this coverage?
Michael Pascarella, freshman, mechanical en
gineerThe ratio of intramural 
and varsity sports is too much 
in favor of intramural sports.
This years Tartan has practically 
reserved one full page for in
tramural activities and has put 
varsity sports 'in a short para
graph in some corner. You can 
always find announcements of 
intramural games, but varsity 
events are hardly ever mention
ed.
My biggest beef is that our freshman basket
ball team has not gotten one write-up in the Tar
tan, although we have beaten two of the best in
tramural teams by large margins. Our varsity and 
freshman teams get a bigger write-up in the Pitts
burgh papers than in our own school newspaper. 
I think that the Tartan ought to get some re
porters who have more school spirit toward in
tercollegiate sports rather than intramural activi
ties. 
Robert White, freshman, chemical engineer
In last weeks sport pages of 
the Tartan, there were four bas
ketball box scores and a total of 
approximately three columns of 
news for IM coverage. The var
sity sports, on the other hand, 
received no box scores and less 
coverage for three major sports 
than IM basketball received 
alone.
Three varsity basketball 
games were covered in less than 
one column and an undefeated swimming team re
reived only a passing-over remark. Although there 
may be more students participating in IM activi
ties than in varsity, I believe varsity events should 
be predominate over IM events. In my opinion 
sports coverage in a paper such as the Tartan 
should stress all varsity activities more than IM 
because of the fact that varsity scores are relaversations can go on 
either because they have never thought of it, or 
dont have rom for such a place, or figure that 
Skibo serves quite well in this capacity.
Yours truly,
Distraught Junior.
M
i. "  L& ' : ;
OFFICES: .Carnegie Union 8075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh U 
Pa TELEPHONESChenley 1-4557. after hours MUseum 
1-5380 for advertising and nibscriptions: MUseum 2-3990.
Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Editor-in-Chiet 
Business Manager 
Managing Editor 
Sports Editor 
Kewi Editor
Fred Sonnen berg 
David Goldsmith 
.. Dick Du retine 
... Frank Fegley 
. Estelle Heriick
Personnel lanagerDick Christensen Features EditorBill 
Smith Advertising ManagerStan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business ManagerJerry Seinei Circnlation ManagerJoe 
LeMarca Photograph? EditorMartin Snyderman. Reporters 
Sheila Sullivan. Jack Armour Joan Cummerton Jane 
Sundei Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly. Marilyn Seiner, 
Ken Win.-ton, Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff, Jo Forsythe. Cab 
ReportersBarbara Leonard Pat Maue, Elaine Manuele, Ann 
Dwinelle. Dorothy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robert
son, Mollie Rudy, Delores Prus. Sports ReportersEdward 
Feigenbaum, Robert Steiger, Dick Eppler, James Gore. 
Copy ReaderPau! Carmichael. Art StaffJoan Brech
in, Nelson Keliey. Dick Stahl PhotographersBarbara Toia. 
Don Hand. Myror Lewis. Rogei Gregory. Dick Wolfe 
features StallAndrew Stedry, Lin Smith, Judy Storch. 
TypistElayne Nord. Headline - StaffVan Anderson, Pat 
Kaugle, Dan Byers Copy RunnerFred Young. Make-Up 
StaffEliroy Wildnaber, Don Wildman. Advertising Staff 
Ronaia Greenwa d Vic Shiry, Mimi Stem, Joan Newman. 
Circnlation Slaff Ralph Antoni to.
Rep<e enteo tor national advertising oy NATIONAL AD
VERTISING Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420 
Madison Ave New York City Subscription $1.10 per y 
Entered as second class mattei on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3. 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925 
Member of the Vseoclated College
tive to all students and not just to groups such
son. Neglecting Grand Opera and African magicians, almost as those en8aged m IM activities, 
every form of entertainment for the art lover is presented irv Shechter, senior, painting and designthe 
on our little acre during one school year, but none receives coverage of sports in the Tartan. 
as much attention and attendance from the student body as is definitely out of proportion 
would a stock ticker in Administration hall.
For the benefit of those we are accusing, we will quickly 
run down a list of the many functions that seem to be over
looked at Tech.
1) The Drama department playsthere are usually six 
to eight plays a year. Though the seats are nearly filled for 
each performance, the percentage of Tech students attend
ing could be much higherif there are so many on campus 
who would go downtown to see a play.
2) The Chapel programssome of the countrys better 
speakers are scheduled each year, but they usually talk to 
two rows of people and 300 empty seats.
3) Kiltie concertsfor those who love the music of a 
large symphony, there are two of these concerts each year.
4) Phi Mu Alpha recitalsat least once a month the 
music honorary presents small recitals in the Fine Arts 
building, usually on Tuesday or Wednesday evenings. The 
attendance at these is very low.
5) Many other forms of entertainmentpractice plays 
and one acts by the drama department behind Skibo almost 
every Monday, Cameron choir concert, numerous independ
ent lecturers, etc.
Many of the above have gone unpublicized in the Tartan 
for many reasons. Usually we found out about them too late, 
since the groups as a whole dont make much effort toward 
getting out publicity. But, this is no excuse for students to 
complain that nothing goes on here at Carnegie Tech. With 
such a yaried curriculum, and each department outstanding 
in its field, it seems natural to expect that our campus could 
becomeas isa cultural center of its own, and able to 
offer much more within the students realm of interest than 
can be found elsewhere.
*
and accuracy. Intramural cov
erage is probably better than 
that given to varsity contests.
But why stop with the relation 
of varsity to intramural? In 
other schools throughout the 
country when a varsity team ac
complishes something extraor
dinary, they are given a big play 
and even a first page spot.
Here at Tech, it appears that varsity athletics 
are relegated to the last page and behind the in 
tramural coverage. Last weeks Tartan was a very 
good example of the poor proportioning of report
ing of intramural varsity, with intramurals get
ting first page and about ten more column inches. 
Charles Boyer, freshman, musicThere has 
been much debate over the fact 
that the Carnegie Tartans em
phasis on the intramural has 
overshowed the publicity of var
sity sports. The students of Tech \ 
have noticed this continually 
and they are definitely against 
such a thing. The Tartan should 
certainly publicize the Tech var
sity.
Yet the students should con
sider one thing in their analysis. 
The Tech sports teams have not been doing an 
impressive job in the way of winning games. If 
they expect to be publicized, then they shall have Q, 
to change their ways of playing. There is no doubt 
that they are trying, but they shall have to try 
much harder.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 3, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
One Record Falls, 
One Tied In Romp 
Over Indiana STC
by Frank Fegley
The Skibo cagers set a new rec
ord and tied another in their ex
ploding 91-45 triumph over Indi
ana State Teachers college last 
Wednesday.
The 91 point total broke the old 
mark of 79 last year. '
Craig Hits For 34
Tom Craig was responsible for 
the other record. The East Mc
Keesport senior hooped 12 goals 
and 10 fouls to total 34 points and 
tie the individual record previ
ously held alone by Mel Cratsley, 
his coach, Mentor Mel, made 34 in 
the 1938-39 season.
Fleet Ronald Thompson hit on 
better than 50 percent of his shots 
to nab runner-up scoring honors 
with 18 tallies.
The Tartans got off to an early 
9-0 lead, and had little trouble 
thereon with the eligibility-rid
dled, predominately freshman 
teachers quintet.
The 46 point margin of victory 
was also the largest on record.
TECH | INDIANA
*Hope For Victory 
Over Grove City, 
Also Waynesburg
G F PtsjGF PtsDosey328 Nusser.. . 226Mocker .... 215 ! Driscoll... 4513Craig .........1210 34|Danielson.. 000Thompson. 9018|Bradley... 168McGinnis.. 204 j Sharpe... 419Daniels . .,.. 00OjGispanski.. 215Pottmeyr. 113|Sendek000Fieler. 102|DeBlase... 000Bracken ... 102|Stiffler24Jeske ..... 408|Sloff000Ackerman. 231\
Totals ...37 17 911 Totals. .141745TECH21 2-91Indiana ........................... 8 14 11 1245
This week the Carnegie Tech 
basketball squad will bring down 
the curtain for the 1953 season 
with games against Grove City 
and Waynesburg.
The Grove City encounter on 
Wednesday will be the last home 
game. The Tartans will be out to 
revenge an earlier season set back 
inflicted upon them by the in
vaders.
Grove City, like the Tartans, 
have found* the going tough this 
year, and consequently have lost 
more games than they have won. 
This game of evenly matched 
teams could be a thriller from the 
fens standpoint.
Last Game Away 
Saturday night the Tartans will 
tackle another opponent which 
has already beaten them this year, 
when they travel to Waynesburg to 
meet the home town Yellow 
Jackets.
Hoopsters Make Final Home Appearance Waynesburg has lost some of its
Carnegie Techs basketball team will play its final game tomorrow night in the Skibo gym. stalwarts by mid-year graduation 
Standing, left to right, are: Assistant Coach Moe Fassinger, Walt McGinnis, Jim Boyd, Bill Hyams,! and has not been flashing
Chuck Bernath, John Daniels, Don Hay, Dick Filer, and Ray Gorman, manager. Kneeling, Ralph lhe which canied them to a
Mocker, Nobby Ackerman, Phil Jeske, Coach Mel Cratsley, Tom Craig, Bill Dosey, and Kaye Thomp
son.
Jerry Neff sparked Westminster 
to its season ending triumph, toss
ing in 31 points.
For the Tartans, Kaye Thomp
son led the way with 15 although 
three others hit for double digits.
Westminster Quint 
Tops Skibo 80-62
Carnegie Tech dropped its four
teenth game in 20 decisions last 
Saturday night as the tall Titans 
from Westminster romped home 
with a 80-62 victory.
The Tartans held the home team 
Titans to a 15-15 deadlock at the 
end of the first quarter but fell 
behind 36-26 at halftime and were 
never in the game thereafter.
WESTMINSTER
G. F. Pts.|
Neff 13 5 31 McGinnis
Tranter 2- 2 6; Dosey
Dugan 4 5 13| Craig
Cotoper 1 5 7| Thompson
Stillson 2 1 5!Mocker
Jones 3 3 9j Ackerman
Sehrcengst 4 1 9j
Totals 29 22 801 Totals 22
Westminster ...................15 21 26
Tech .................................15 11 16
OfficialsJacobs and Gallo.
CARNEGIE
G. F. Pts.3 2 8
3 2 8
4 3 11
6 3 15
3 4 10
3 4 10
1880 
2062
Straightcall Pool
In the playoffs, the Obelisks won 
the school championship beating 
the SAE Purple 35-30, 35-34, 
and 35-21.
Water Polo 
TEAM STANDINGS
Tartan League W
BSR .................................................... 2
SN A ................................................ 1
DTD ...................................................... 1
TX .......................................................... 1
Obelisks ..................................................0
Scot League W
ATO ....................................................... 3
PiKA .......................................................3
Phi Kappa ......................................3
SAE ....................................................... 2
SN B.................................................. 1
KS ........................................................ 0
Sports Schedule
Basketball 
March 4Grove City. .Home 
March 7Waynesburg Away 
Swimming 
March 7Penn-Ohio .. . Tere 
Volleylball 
March 3Peabody .... Away
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
one point victory over Tech earlier 
in the year. Another possible Ski
bo victory may be predicted.
Craig and Thompson Depart 
This game will mark the last 
appearance of Tom Craig and 
Kaye Thompson as Tartan basketeers.
'lB je'ae' VeeRe
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Entire Student Body Agrees 
New Arrow Radnor Is Hit!
New Rounded-Point Collar,
Cagers End Home Season Tomorrow
Contact Your Student Placement Office Now 
For Your Interview With The Goodyear Representative 
On March 9, 10, 11 
f
goe mllFBen' g'e 5 'iVVe' hl1 
6Yd mllFBen' nglIh hl'U1
ARROW SHIRTS
L SHIRTS  TIES  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS 
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
yelan'F4R Iea4R RolU
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Representatives of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and the Good
year Atomic Energy Corporation will be on your campus to interview Sen
iors with B.S. and advanced degrees in the following fields of technical 
study:
 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING  INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING
 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING  CIVIL ENGINEERING
 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING  CHEMISTRY
Opportunities for^graduates with the above degrees now exist in the fol
lowing fields:
 PLANT ENGINEERING  RESEARCH
 PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT  MACHINE DESIGN
 PROCESS DEVELOPMENT  FACTORY MANAGEMENT
 TECHNICAL SALES
The rounded-point collar is rapidly winning new converts 
among well-dressed collegians. Most popular of these new 
shirts is Arrow Radnor.
Small-Knot Tie, Smart
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR GRADUATE 
ENGINEERS WITH GOODYEAR
Campus Style Note

---------------------------------------------------

ft CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1953
Betas, DUs, Newmans, 
And ATO Lead League
Betas Knock Off Beta Sigs 47-32, 
Rockets Upset Defending Titlists
by Paul Smith
The fourth week of IM basketball action saw eight contests j 
played in the American league. Big game of the week was the clash 
between two previously undefeated teams, from which the Betas' 
?merged victors over the Beta Sigs 47-32. The Betas also defeated 
Citcom 57-45 during the week to 
take over undisputed possession of 
first place. The PiKA squad, paced 
by Kirkbride and Settle, posted 
two victories last week to move 
into one end of a three-way tie for 
second. PiKA dropped the Delts 
58-47 and Newman club B" 65- 
19. Beta Sig won a close one 
from a fired-up ASCE team 48-44.
Bagdad AC took one end of the 
second place to tie with a 52-29 
victory over the Slugs. The Slugs 
Iso lost to a red-hot Citcom team 
56-45. Rounding out the weeks 
activity was a Delt. win over Phi 
Kap B, 57-42.
Sekuds Streak Ends
The Rockets upset of the pow
erful Sekuds, last years champs, 
was the big event in National 
league play last week. The Rock
ets 66-50 victory snapped a 16- 
game winning string for the Se
kuds. The Sekuds, led by Ace
French with 34 points, came back 
with a vengeance to trounce TX 
"A 77-30. The ATO quint re
mained unbeaten, defeating the 
Rinky Dinks 55-43. The Hillbil
lies posted their first victory, over 
Sigma Nu B 34-14. Sigma Nu 
B also lost to the Freshmen 
Flashes 41-15. DU B won their 
game with TX A 36-27 to com
plete the National league sched
ule.
The high-scoring DU A team 
lightened their hold on top posi
tion in the Federal league with 
an 88-43 romp over the Sprockets.
Finn had 28 points to lead the 
victors. The second place Arkens 
remained unbeaten as they drop
ped ATO B 35-21. The Obe
lisks took over third place with a 
98-40 win over TX B and ATO 
*B picked up their second vic70 Foot Shot
Don Cavallero, Indiana STC 
Frosh foward, swished a 70 
foot shot through the hoop in 
the frosh prelim to the Indi
ana-Tech same last Wednes
day in Skibo gym. The young 
athlete not only brought the 
crowd to its feet, but also won 
the game. The one handed 
toss from the left of the foul 
circle at three-quarters length 
was taken with but two sec
onds remaining and was the 
margin of Indianas 53-51 vic
tory.
Departing Baskefceers
The Waynesburg game this Saturday will be the last one for 
Kaye Thompson, left, and Tom Craig in Tartan togs. The departing 
seniors have sparkled for the Skibos in a rather dismal season. To
gether they have averaged better than 30 points a game.
tory, defeating SAE 39-27, to com
plete a short week of play in the 
Federal League.
Roopsips Upset Graduates 
In the spotlight in the Repub
lican league was the upset of the 
strong Graduates by the thirdplace Roopsips. The Roopsips 41- 
40 victory knocked the Grads out 
of first place, which was then 
taken over by Newman club A 
with a 57-29 verdict over the 
Demons. The Phi Kap A cagers 
recovered from last weeks upset 
to rout the Beta B team 70-13. 
The Beta squad also dropped a 
game to the Soph Pigskins 49-25. 
The Demons won out over the Tau 
Delts 48-37 in the other game in 
the Republican league.
Swimmers Swamp 
jFenn To End First 
Undefeated Season
Two records fell last Saturday 
as the Tartan mermen splashed to 
I an easy, 60-23, victory over Fenn 
to finish Techs first undefeated 
: .swimming season.
Coulter Sets Record 
Sophomore Bob Coulter set a 
I new pool record in the 200 yard 
backstroke with a time of 2:30.7, 
| knocking 1.2 seconds off the old 
1 record. He also swam with Aiken 
j and McCorkle in the medley relay 
, which set a team record of 3:13.9. 
i Kramer again won the 220 and 
I anchored the freestyle relay while
Attention June Graduates
mllFBen' n'h'n.g hl'Ul'ngla 
age'jeam In'ho wT,TTw7
Representatives of Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, Akron, Ohio will be 
on your campus to interview seniors and graduate students in the follow
ing study:
 MECHANICAL
 INDUSTRIAL
 ELECTRONICS
for opportunities in
%
DesignComplete lighter and heavierthan-aircraft and components, airframes, power plant installations; con
trols: hydraulics; electroni systems; fuel cells, canopies, wheel and brakes, etc.
DevelopmentMissille, airship, jet aircraft 
and helicopter projects; electrical and electronic systems, servomechanisms, 
fiber resin laminates and many other projects having both military and non 
military applications.
 AERONAUTICAL
 METALLURGICAL
 ENGINEERING
 PHYSIC
 ELECTRICAL
 CIVIL
 MATHEMATICS
Plant EngineeringLight heat power ap
plication including machine design.
Production EngineeringAll phases metal 
fabrication manufacture.
Stress and Weight Analysis.
Tool Planning including Tools, Dies, Jigs, 
and fixtures.
Apply NOW for Interviews at Your Placement Office
mllFBen' n'h'n.g hl'Ul'ngla
AKRON 15. OHIO
iportcome
by Frank Fegley, Sports Editor
While the basketball squad has been taking its lumps this year, 
the Skibo mermen have been adding on victory after victory. A 
convincing triumph over Grove City in the Tech pool last Wednes
day marked the ninth straight win for the water-fighters. Once 
more, Captain Dick Kramer, Dan Guz, Rick McCorkle, Jim Aiken, 
Bob Wedell, and Grey Duncan have been consistently taking first 
places in their specialties. These consistent individual performances 
should form a good basis of prediction for the oncoming Penn-Ohio 
meet, which is a conglomeration of the best in aqua. Our mermen
have won this Tri-state class B championship the past two years
and are placed in the shakey roll of defending titlists. They say the 
third time is always the charm; for the opponents, that is. At any 
rate, our Tartans are so good that they have drawn raves from news
papers as far as Philadelphia.
Branch Rickey vs Mel Cratsley ?
I hear where Branch Rickey, general manager of the local base
ball club, has been slighted by our Pessimistic-for-the-Pirates ath
letic department. It seems that Mel Cratsley has scheduled a home 
football game for the Tartans on October 3. This is one of the pro
posed dates for the 1953 World Series.
Volleyballers Seek Repeat on Title 
The inter-collegiate volleyball team began practice last week 
attempting to regain the form which brought them the Tri-state 
championship last year. Coach Earl Birdy'is back at the helm tutor
ing a contingent composed mostly of intramural volleyball standouts. 
The net men have received an invitation to play in the Eastern In
tercollegiate volleyball tournament to be held March 20 and 21 at 
New York state college, Binghamton, New York.
Guz and Feldman took first and 
second in the 50 yard dash. Grey 
Duncan outclassed Hann of Fenn 
to take the diving. The 200 yard 
breaststroke and 440 freestyle were 
won by Bill Aiken and Phil Dew, 
respectively, to give Tech nine out 
of ten firsts. The only first 
dropped by the Tartans was the 
100 yard dash in which Kraby 
touched out Guz with a time of 
57:8 seconds.
This Saturday the swimmers 
will seek their third straight vic
tory in the Penn-Ohio Conference 
meet. Throughout the season the 
! Tartans have won on the consist! ant first places of Kramer, Coul
ter, Duncan, Aiken, Weddell, and 
Guz. If these mermen swim Sat
urday the same way that they have 
been swimming all season, they 
can well expect to take the third 
straight championship.
"Amazing variety
and practical wisdom"
says DR. ANDREW W. BLACKWOOD
Temple University, Philadelphia, Penna.
"The Reader's Digest helps a busy man to 
understand life in these United States, 
in the United Nations, and even in Soviet 
lands. With amazing variety, and a world of 
practical wisdom, each monthly issue helps 
the reader to interpret life on earth today, 
with more than a few glimpses of tomorrow.
Each month, Readers Digest editors comb through more 
publications than any one person could read in two years, 
and select whatever seems.of outstanding interest..
Each article is carefully condensed to preserve both its 
content and flavor. The wide range of subjects stimulates 
new interests, encourages a further search for knowledge.
In a real way, Readers Digest helps continue the educa
tion of millions of readers in America and all over the world.
In March Readers Digest, youll be interested in The Earth It 
Bornlatest scientific theories on how our earth began, how it 
will end; We CAN Win the War in KoreaWilliam Bullitts 
analysis of how we can end the bloody stalemate; Fred Wailer' 
Amazing Cineramahow a self-made scientist is bringing breath
taking realism to movies.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 3, 1953-CARNEGIE TARTANPa* f
BETTE*-
vo^er. Smoother
e better-cleaner.
^T^debe
Luckies Me
Lucky Strike M 
thing yu wa"t 'ste_for the clean 
kv Strike .  
toother
HI/-V
CARNEGIE^ 1/ ./I// iV/iljhi
VV,/V
Page edited by Evening School Students ol the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.u
Editor ......................................................................................... Victor Sabol
Reporters..........Anna Mae Legosh, Kathy Galligan, Charles Keller,
Ray Schwalm
Nil Sigma Alpha, Honorary Frat, 
Sponsors Activities, Projects
Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity is an honorary fraternity which se
lects its members from those evening students who have shown an 
interest in school affairs. Since the organization has realized the 
importance of extracurricular activities in evening school life, it 
has worked to stimulate and en-*------------------------------- T  --------- 
Newman Club 
Meets Sunday
Phi Gamma Pi will hold a spa
ghetti dinner on Sunday, March 8, 
at the Union. All members and 
pledges are urged to be early so 
that the dinner may start prompt
ly at 6 p.m. This is necessary in 
order that there will be no con
flict with a meeting and social 
scheduled by another group for 
7:30.
A business meeting in the meet
ing room on the second floor will 
follow the dinner.
courage student interest and par
ticipation therein.
During the 1925-6 school year, 
when the need for such a frater
nity became apparent, the prelim
inary work of establishing the or
ganization was begun, by 1928 a 
constitution was adopted' and in 
1930 the fraternity was recognized 
by the Evening Student Council as 
a campus organization.
Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity has 
taken a prominent part in the de
velopment of the project on the 
campus, and it has pledged its 
support to the students activities 
building projects which the Evening Student Council sponsors.
Various activities presented to 
its members include open dances 
held at different times throughout 
the year.
Selected members are pledged at 
some campus function. Member
ship in this organization does not 
affect the standing in any other 
organization.
Letter To Editor 
Gets Study Room 
For Night School
In reply to last weeks Letter to 
the Editor, the Administration has 
notified this paper that a new 
study room has been in the mak
ing ever since they had closed AH 
132.
Although the new room is not 
completely furnished, it has been 
opened to the evening students. 
Part of the furnishings in AH 233 
have been paid for from a fund set 
aside for this purpose by Phi Nu 
in memory of L. Glucksman, a 
member from their ranks who 
gave his life in World War I.
.HC kMD VeRg
in 
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
Liberty
Photo
Supply
GR 1-6467   436 Wood St.4!
iWGvDCuGkf 'DCDPkGHW
bowLing
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
RENT A TYPEWRITER
!91,,
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kindi tu Low*29M.50
nODCGPWgfsDtCGNDC hH1 
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
Convenient Parkin* *
Phi Gamma Pi 
To Eat Spaghetti 
In Carnegie Union
The March meeting of the CIT 
Evening School Newman club will 
be held on Sunday evening, March 
8, at 7:30 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Union. All members are urged to 
attend. The speaker for the eve 
ning will be Father Joyce. A so
cial will follow the meeting.
Please note the place of the 
meeting has been changed to the 
Carnegie Union on Forbes street 
rather than the K of C hall in 
Oakland.
Editor's Note
Student Handbooks 
Present Philosophy
The following poems are the 
second in a series of selections 
from the Evening School hand
books of by-gone years. The Edi
tors believe that, although the 
handbooks are out-dated, much of 
the philosophy underlying these 
poems can well be applied to 
present day problems.
OPPORTUNITY
So long as men shall be on earth
There will be tasks for them 
to do,
Some way for them to show their 
worth;
Each day shall bring its 
problems new.
And men shall dream of mightier 
deeds
Than ever have been done 
before:
There always shall be human 
needs
For men to work and struggle 
for.
It takes a hammer of practice 
to drive the nail of success.
THE POWER OF WILL
If you think you are beaten, yot 
are;
If you think you dare not, you 
dont;
If youd like to win but think you 
cant,
Its almost certain you wont.
If you think youll lose, youve lost,
For out in the world we find
Success begins with a fellows will;
It is all in the state of mind.
If you think you are outclassed, 
you are;
Youve got to think high to rise;
Youve got to be sure of yourself 
before
You can ever win a prize.
Lifes battles dont always go
To the stronger or faster man;
But soon or later, the man who 
wins
Is the man who thinks he can.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
YOUB FULL DISCOUNTln0ynaF on'Fn'e
3606 FORBES ST.
this 
|n painting2ou neverfr
u'WhearawA \ N H Brennern.Rie hardi*. pifisburgh 
UnivfSI y
. , campus WfresHm*n0^e hc,s wean**
Art V>onr Ludties t>es ,
tie won* comp*"nSlir
OKI. Co.FRODVCT or
COLLEGE STUDENTS PREFER LUCKIES 
IN NATION-WIDE SURVEY!
Nation-wide survey based on actual student in
terviews in 80 leading colleges reveals more 
smokers prefer Luckies than any other cigarette 
by a wide margin. No. 1 reasonLuckies better 
taste. Survey also shows Lucky Strike gained 
far more smokers in these colleges than the na
tions two other principal brands combined.
AMBBICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIOARKTTKS

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 3, 1953
f lWSf kGOD tGSS kDSS PAH-k P ^ WDt CDukP-CPWk1 nWd HWSf ^ kGOD tGSS kDSS PAH-k P GbPCDkkDE gPD fH-C
WOW] HAVE 
WE GOT 
OURSELVES A 
extwxtksc
for , days
_NHC IyFaeRR 
PWd .ynjl' 
@iyTLIme will Tli...
-----------------------------vr* THIS PLACE
XI hlIam oe'e j jR mlaan 5e [ olhnagoe 
EVERYDAY. LOOK  oe'e .l'n > geyy Rl SOON? goefS 
^ ngnyygoe onjeglg0fgoeNF
IHGD UDHsSD ROHD hPODSu
THAN ANY OTHER 
CIGARETTE 1
THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel
is Americas most popular cigaretteleading all other brands by billions! 
Camels have the two things smokers 
want mostrich, full flavor and cool, 
cool mildness ...pack after pack! Try 
Camels for 30 days and see how mild, 
how fl&vorful, how thoroughly enjoy
able they are as your steady smoke!
SIA Holds Discussion; 
Book To Be Published
An informal round-table discussion was held here at Carnegie 
in connection with dedication of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. Business, industrial, educational, research, and com
munication leaders participated in the discussion. A new book, 
Fundamental Research in Ad-^-----------------------------------------------------
ministration: Horizons and Prob
lems, to be published April 15, 
1953, reports the findings of this 
group.
Knowledge Important
Sidney A. Swensrud, President 
of the Gulf Oil corporation, in
cludes among his commentaries in 
the book that In many fields in 
American industry today, an in
creasing number of management 
jobs are being filled by men who 
were engineers by original train
ing. Yet every management man 
knows that it is all too easy for 
the engineer and the scientist to' 
be narrowly trained and oriented, 
unsuited for taking on manage
ment responsibilities because of 
his lack of broad knowledge and 
understanding of the many other 
phases of business. Knowledge of 
technology is important in mod
ern industry, but the engineer 
alone is apt to be a mere tech
nician.
The Vice-President of the Pitts
burgh Plate Glass company, Mr.
Leland Hazard, has written that 
Ive heard business men say that 
if they want to do such a simple 
thing as make a statement to the 
press, by the time it gets through 
the public relations people, the 
tax lawyers, and so on, there isnt 
anybody left to make it to. An ex
pert, they tell me, is one who 
makes no-small errors as he pro
ceeds to the grand fallacy. 
Security Minded?
Education for management, an
other topic discussed at the for
um, was written about by William 
H. Whyte, Jr., the assistant man
aging editor of Fortune magazine. 
He said: The college class of 1949, 
and the class before it and the 
class after, were the most groupminded collection of young peo
ple that we have ever known. 
They are tremendously interested 
in security  security as against 
opportunity, lets say  and not 
only financial security but emo
tional security, as well. When you 
translate this into kinds of jobs,
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
gIe RolU
On
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
IHCD BOUNCE to the Ounce
Greek Sing
[Continued, from page 1] 
dance, informal and with no ad
mission charges, will last from 9 
to 1 a.m.
Plans for this years song and 
dance weekend have been under
way since Christmas, and the var
ious participating groups have 
been rehearsing for as long. To be 
eligible to sing, one must be an 
active member, pledge, social 
member or graduate student be
longing to the organization and 
attending CIT this year.
Each fraternity isrequired to 
have a minimum of 16 singers or 
one-third of their membership, 
whichever is larger. Sororities 
shall have a minimum of 12 sing
ers, including the director.
you find that there has never been 
such an urge on the part of a 
whole college generation to get 
into staff as contrasted with line 
positions. They wish to be tech
nicians of society more than lead
ers.
Benefit Dinner 
March 10
A United Nations Day benefit 
dinner will be sponsored by the 
Home Economics club at 5:30 p.m. 
on Tuesday, March 10, in Mar
garet Morrison Recreation hall as 
a culmination of their Internation
al week plans. The dinner will be 
a very simple meal to impress the 
group with the contrast between 
an average dinner eaten in some 
countries abroad and that served 
in America.
Proceeds from the dinner will be 
given to Holland Relief. An an
nual contribution to the National 
Home Economics Associations In
ternational Scholarship fund will 
be continued. Other plans for the 
week include a number of dis
plays to be arranged in Margaret 
Morrison library and Recreation 
hall. These displays will include 
objects from foreign lands.
eamaee'am
Real'R111
aHCkM nODCGPW 
nvGPkGHW 
yHu nWbDSDu
ivill interview here
MARCH 24
by the Three Blind Mice 
GUARDIAN ANGELS . . . Those 
sinister gargoyles atop the roof of 
Morewood are really gods to ward 
off the evil omen of dateless week
ends; although it has been rumor
ed they are the spirits of girls 
Who once waded in the pond.
BUDDING ENGINEER . . . One
iron nerved follower of the Car
negie Plan recently put all his en
gineering principles to work at the 
Skibo donut tray. It seems he 
walked away juggling a stack of 
Bix donuts on one plate.
SPLASHING VICTORY...
CITs Swimming team has really 
been outdoing itself latelyit can
not be said of the boys that they 
are all wet.
EAVESDROPPIN ROUND . . .
Skibo gossip, He was a failure as 
an architect so he went on the 
stage. Skibo synic, Is he drawing 
better houses?
ANTISOCIAL . . . Ohio Wesley
an University is up in arms be
cause a recent poll of the womens 
dorms showed that 387 of the to
tal 611 girls had no dates on Sat
urday nights. Tsk, Tsk, Tsk.
BEARD O CONTEST? . . . Cer
tain of the student body have been 
sprouting quite a bit of chin 
thatchreason is the Drama de
partments Shakespeare plays. One 
Unappreciative coed quipped, 
Dont they itch?
INCREASED DIAMETERS . . . 
Provisions are being laid into 
Morewood for the long winter 
newly installed ice cream and 
sandwich vending machines prom
ise many a tight waistband come 
spring.
MORE FLEAS...
Great Fleas have lesser fleas,
And these have less to biteenrr 
These fleas have lesser fleas,
And so ad infinitum.
