TARTAN
March 21, 1978 Vo|ume 78, Number 24 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
O'Nan stresses broader AMS education
by Jean Pellegrini
The AMS program structure is being 
redirected to meet broader educational 
goals, says Mary Ann ONan, Coordinator 
of Undergraduate Programs for GSIA.
| I think that education includes train
ing in specific skills but it also includes 
training as human beings,states ONan. 
She believes that this university has trad
itionally been a skills training school but 
you see, I dont think that that is 
enough.
Im biased because I attended a uni
versity that was geared to educational 
training. As far as my personal back
ground, I had a father who was an in tel 
lectual of the mind and who realized how 
important an educational background is. 
He defined education as all those things 
you do and processes you go through to 
get resources that no one can take away 
from you.
The university has decided to stress a 
, more general educational background for 
the AMS program I dont happen to 
disagree because that is my personal at
titude and opinion. What is best for stu
dents will be best for the universitys 
goals in the long-run. She adds that, 
Success in graduate professional schools, 
in jobs, and in life is dependent on 
growthgrowth as people.
Mary Ann ONan states, "Skills training can be more of a liability than an asset.
The excess supply of college grads 
makes the job market look rather grim 
for the next 10-15 years. The general ed
ucational background gives a person the 
flexibility to adapt himself to whatever is 
available to him at the time. Thus, skills 
training can be more of a liability than an
asset, ONan notes.
0*Nan, an instructor at GSIA, observes 
that GSIA is doing some soul-searching 
right now in order to develop a masters 
level student body with a broader educa
tional background. The idea is to attract 
more different kinds of people with more
Housing plans summer renovations
by Stuart Seidman
The Auxiliary Services Office announ
ced that its summer renovation program of 
campus housing facilities is now being fin
alized. Along with continuing renovations 
1 in Morewood Gardens, work will be done 
on Hammerschlag, Welch, Henderson, 
Woodlawn,and the fraternity area.
The majority of the renovations this 
summer will center on improving security 
in the dormitories. Other work will im
prove elevators, bathrooms, windows, and 
heating plants.
Morewood Gardens
Upon returning to CMU next September, 
Morewood residents will discover a new 
first floor. The architecture firm of Deeter, 
Richey, & Sippel (designers of Science Hall 
and Three Rivers Stadium) have been 
working on a new first floor plan to con
tain student lounges and recreation facil
ities.
The most important change, however, 
will be improvements of security in More
wood. The entrance will be moved from BTower to the lower level cafeteria entrance. 
At the top of the stairs there will be a vesti
bule with a centrex phone. According to 
Bill Dillon, director of Auxiliary Services, 
if you do not live in Morewood, a resident 
will have to let you in, as there will no 
longer be a Morewood Desk.
Also scheduled for this summer is the 
completion of new electrical service. The 
primary distribution system has already 
been replaced, and the secondary system 
distribution system to rooms will be per
formed-this summer. All of the rooms will 
receive new outlets, switches and fixtures.
Other possibilities for Morewood in
clude the replacement of the elevators. The 
present elevators are safe, but Dillon stated
that he feels students would be more com
fortable in contemporary units. There is 
also the possibility of connecting the tow
ers on every floor with security doors to 
increase the number of possible exits in 
case of a fire. According to Dillon, the 
University is under no pressure to make 
these changes but is planning them to im
prove the resident^living conditions.
To make it possible for the work to be 
done before next year, Morewood will be 
closed this summer. The summer program 
students who normally reside in Morewood 
will be housed in several of the hill dorms.
The Hill
Along with the construction of the new 
dormitory, there are renovations planned 
for several of the older buildings. The arch
itects of the new dorm Darrhnos & Pedone. will be coordinating all of the work 
on the hill.
The major thrust will be on improving 
security. One of the entrances to Hammer
schlag will receive a vestibule with a cen
trex phone. Also a vestibule and phone will 
be installed at the Woodlawn Apartments. 
The vestibule at Donner is to be finished 
by May.
Another major Hill project involves the 
replacement of windows in Welch, Hender
son and Doherty House. The new windows 
will be double pane to conserve energy.
Security lighting will also be beefed up 
on the Hill as in all dormitory areas. There 
will be no new fire escapes this summer, 
but Dillon plans to have them added to the 
oldei hill dorms in 1979
The Fraternity Quad
The i aleiiniy quad, containing some of 
the newest buildings in the university hous
ing system, has only one project scheduled 
for it. The boilers for the heating systems
in the eight older houses will be replaced. 
Hans have not been finalized, but Dillon 
says there are two options: the installation 
of one larger boiler for each duplex unit, 
or the extension of the steam lines from 
the campus across Forbes Avenue.
Other facilities
Auxiliary Services is planning little 
other work to be done this summer. The 
parking lots around campus are to be left 
alone except for pothole patching. It is 
also a very strong possibility that the More
wood Cafeteria will be renovated.
Issues raised 
at Cyert chat
by Elliot Ohlberg
A poorly attended Chat with President 
Cyert may have been the most significant 
Black Week event. It was rumored that 
an important intra-mural basketball game 
was responsible for only six to eight stu
dents showing up to meet Pres. Cyert.
Questions were raised pertaining to 
the enrollment decline, energy crisis, 
tuition increases, and the lack of black 
faculty members. Regarding the latter, 
Cyert said that the complaint was a very 
valid point. He continued, We are 
interested in getting more black and 
women faculty. One problem is that 
businesses are also very interested in 
these people. Also, when you find blacks 
who are already in academic life, they 
are very hard to get. In summary, it is 
a small supply and a lot of schools are 
after them.
Some interesting feelings surfaced in 
the discussion which followed a question 
concerning the obstacles to establishing 
continued on page four
different kinds of backgrounds. She 
adds that the program will be more effec
tive at the professional training level in 
the 2 years that students are at C-MU.
There is a general recognition at 
graduate professional training schools (all 
types inclusive) that what they need and 
what they ought to be looking for in un
dergraduate education is better education 
and better training [from applicants]. 
Therefore, this is a logical and meaning
ful context to use in looking at what kind 
of business program would be best for the 
type of people in it, ONan states.
The AMS program is being redirected 
as a specialty program in the last 2 years 
after acquiring a general background in 
the freshman and sophomore years. All 
are aware that what a person needs is a 
broader education which will be the 
background for the rest of his life. 
The double-major/minor management 
program options are favored by Dr. O
Nan and we owe the existence of those 
programs to Professor Kerr who worked 
hard to develop them.
It will be a bigger program, organized 
so that there will be a manageable num
ber of people in it. This implies, if the 
program is to be continued, that there 
will be some kind of screening process. 
The tentative plan is to admit 50 fresh
men into the AMS department and have 
those people take II&SS/AMS courses for 
the first 2 years. Then, the junior class 
size will increase to 100 allowing room 
for at least 50 people from other depart
ments on campus to transfer into AMS. 
The bigger junior and senior class will 
mean confining GSIAs efforts to them. 
AMS will be able to graduate 100 people 
every year, as opposed to 50-60 in the 
past and also satisfy on-campus de
mands. The demand for AMS double 
majors and minors will decrease as a re
sult of there being more room for intra
continued on page four
inside
news
Architecture accredidation on line 
(Pg4)
Report on A1ESEC Regional (pg. 14)
features
Credit tips (pg. LI)
entertainment
Black Week wrap-up (pgs. 20-21)
folio
The End of Creation (pg. 13)
sports
Harry Coleman: All-American swim
mer (pg. 28)

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TART ANMarch 21, 1978
Pitt students deface SAE lions
by Mike Snizek
CMU security officers apprehended two 
Pitt students early last Friday morning af
ter allegedly breaking one of the lions in 
front of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraterni
ty*
Security reports, and SAE members 
confirm, that at approximately 2 AM a 
light brown car pulled up in front of the 
fraternity and discharged two occupants 
who allegedly toppled one of the lions 
from its base. The same brown car was re
portedly seen the previous evening speed
ing away from the house after defacing the 
lions with paint.
A number of SAE members followed 
the two culprits and despite a lengthy pur
suit were unable to capture them. A second 
incident occurred at approximately 3 AM 
when a station wagon reportedly stopped 
in front of the house and again discharged 
a person who was caught in the act of de
facing a lion. The person returned to the 
car and preceeded to back the car down 
Forbes to the Bureau of Mines building, 
presumably to conceal his license plate 
number. Fraternity members were able 
however to secure the number through the 
assistance of a passerby.
The final incident that resulted in the 
subsequent capture of the two students 
occurred at 4:30 AM. The same light 
brown car appeared and this time two per
sons attempted to topple the remaining 
lion. Three SAE members emerged and af
ter a slight tussle were able to apprehend 
and detain them until Security arrived. Se
curity then took the two into custody and 
removed them to the Security office where 
the incident was reported and their identi
ties determined.
Unconfirmed repoits indicate that ; 
two were pledges of a Pitt fraternity and 
were ordered to deface the CMU SAEs 
lions. Security director Michael Corletti
by Belinda Quan
The CMU Spring Carnival will begin at
5 00 PM, Thursday, April 13. According to 
Charlene Reese, Chairman of the Carnival, 
the Carnival will be much of the same as 
last year but there will be more entertain
ment, a cafe organized by Food Service, 
and a gigantic banana split. Everyone who 
is at the opening will see fireworks and 
have a taste of the split.
The carnival will be located on the park
ing lots surrounding Skibo and feature the 
traditional events such as the Midway and 
Sweepstakes. The midway will be made up 
of 28 booths built by the campus commun
ity, the fraternities, sororities, and inde
pendent organizations. Each booth will 
have a game related to this years theme, 
Verities and Balderdash. Sweepstakes is 
the official name of the buggy races. For 
those that do not know the course will be
gin in front of Maggy Murph, goes up 
Tech Street, follows Schenley Drive past
could only confirm the fact that they were 
Pitt students. "The matter will now be re
ferred to Dean Swank who supposedly will 
contact the appropriate Pitt officials. 
Dean Swank confirmed that the matter 
will be referred to Pitts Dean of Student 
Affairs and Pitts fraternity court if they 
are indeed fraternity members.
Phipps Conservatory, and finish upon Frew 
Street behind Hunt Library.
SDC will erect a tent on the Skibo park
ing lot, which will be open beginning at
6 PM on April 13. The tent will be the site 
for a picnic, a square dance, a Gong Show, 
and a formal dance.
The Activities Board will sponsor a con
cert on Thursday night in the Carnegie 
Music Hall featuring Renaisance. On Fri
day AB Films will screen Rocky, the 1977 
Academy Award winner for Picture of the 
Year. Scotch 'n Soda will present Wood
wind, a musical, in the Ballroom through
out carnival.
Students will be able to participate in 
relay races, gazorching, kite flying, weight
lifting, plank jousting, tug of war, and a 
frisbee contest. They can buy works prod
uced by local artists at the Arts and Crafts 
Fair. And Food Service will sell special 
foods at their cafe in the stadium area.
The Spring Carnival ends on Saturday 
April 15 with an awards ceremony at either 
the stadium or the gynasium. Prizes will 
be given foj the best booths and the winner 
of the buggy race.
Any one who is interested in the Arts 
and Crafts Fair should contact Kate Ber
trand (683-7324) or Alice Thiel (371- 
5155). Anyone who can help with the elec
trical wiring can contact Tom Starr (687- 
8508).
President's 
Piece
by John Tumazos
Many problems plague the student body 
the housing contract, overcrowding, dep> 
artments without faculties (AMS), depart
ments that no longer exist (Music Educa
tion), instructors that speak English 
poorly, high academic attrition rates, the 
emphasis on research rather than teaching, 
and many others. In addition, specific 
problems bother individual students. The 
huge turnout at last months Gripe Session 
with President Cyert showed that many 
students are concerned about various is
sues.
During my campaign I pledged to create 
a special mechanism, the Grievance Comm
ittee, to hear, investigate, and act upon 
students problems. While the University 
bureaucracy may be insensitive to indi
vidual students, it might be more respon
sive to the student government. Student 
government should represent students 
interests.
Also: If your dorm room is too small, 
your lounge nonexistant, or your pro
fessor ridiculous, please bring your gripe to 
the first meeting of the Grievance Commit
tee this Wednesday night at 7 PM in the 
Wherret Room.
Senate murmurs 
by Elliot Ohlberg
Outgoing Chairperson David G. Roussos 
bid welcome to 5 of the 7 newly elected 
senators at the March 14 Student Senate 
meeting. The new Senate then elected its 
officers for the next year.
Scott Miller (CIT) was elected Chairper^ 
son, received the gavel and best wishes 
from Roussos, then continued conducting 
elections. Chris Devoe (CFA) was elected 
Vice-Chairperson, replacing Ken Meinert.
Michael Inners (MIS) and Carl Freed
man (CFA) were elected Rules Committee 
and General Campus and Information 
Committee Chairmen, respectively.
Dan Cordes (CIT) was replaced as Fi^ 
nance Committee Chairman by Tom En 
gleman (MIS), who has 2 years experience 
with Finance Committee dealings. Respon
ding to criticism of the recent Finance 
Committee hearings, Cordes stated that 
much of Senates aggregate time was saved 
by 4-6 people reviewing and assigning pre
liminary approval to all 62 club budgets, 
before presentation to Senate for final ap^ 
proval. Cordes went on to suggest that 
Senate abolish the Finance Committee if 
they did not appreciate the value of it.
Cordes was transferred laterally to chair 
the important Academic Affairs Commit
tee; he replaces newly elected Student 
Government President John Tumazos.
Preceding the officer elections, Tumazos 
delivered a breif speech appealing for more 
organization and unity in Student government. He said that the three functions of 
student government are to act as the voice 
of the students to the administration, allof activities fee fairly, and provide general 
leadership on campus. Whatever decision 
the Administration is making, it is our duty 
to speak up [if it is felt the student body 
objects], said Tumazos.
On the subject of budget reform, Tumazos said he believes that there exists too 
much power in the. hands of too few. He 
specifically mentioned the Finance Com
mittee Chairmanship, adding that he will 
appoint the external budget reform com
mittee at tonights meeting, along with a 
new Student Government Treasurer. Tu
mazos said a more organized fund alloca
tion procedure with set goals and priorities 0 
will be developed by experienced individu
als who reflect the desires of the entire stu
dent body.
Tumazos also mentioned that the new 
Greivance Committee will be appointed at 
tonight^ meeting, but added that the 
Committee would be unnecessary if Stu
dent Senate is functioning alertly.
Tumazos concluded his remarks by extr 
plicating on the need to work together in 
order to get anything done. He said that 
the Greek System is very beneficial and is 
a constructive force on campus. He also is 
impressed with the UFO leadership, but he 
does not ever want to see a Senate splin
tered between independants and Greeks,
(or Greek-Americans)!
In other news, the Academic Affairs ^ 
Committee will meet with Dr. Schatz, Pro
vost and VP for Academic Affairs, tomor
row. High academic attrition rates is one 
item this committee will be examining in 
the future. Student suggestions or com
ments would be valuable.
It was moved that an ex-officio Senate 
seat be offered to all ex-Presidents of Stu
dent Government until they graduate. Ihe * 
motion was tabled for one week since it re
quires an amondim'ni to the Constitution.
continued on page five
Heed a tide to the aity&d?
Ike* tty the
AEpkft Pitt Omega
Shu me bus
Dote: (ttatdi 24, 1978 Ptiee: *2.50
JCeauiiu): (UM* (He*tumd Gaideu (taut Uwutet
11:45 AW 12:00 nwn
2:15 PW 2:30 PW
4:45 PM 5:00 PW
Ticket* available al Sfitta MetMaliftK Vetk
Carnival will open with 
fireworks and banana splits
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE, II

---------------------------------------------------

March 21,1978-TARTAN-page 3
The SDC space
by Carolyn Stewart
At last Sundays meeting, President 
Carolyn Welty announced that the Exec
utive Board had made a mistake in calcu
lating the votes at the previous meeting. 
Because of this, the motion which allo
cated Bill Sisak $50 for the Boss Hall 
party and the amendment to the private 
party regulations were not actually passed. 
The Board had thought that only a twothirds majority, excluding abstentions, 
was needed to pass a motion. But as 
Welty explained, a two-thirds note of all 
the Council members present is needed 
to pass a motion.
The matter was not voted on again 
because there was no quorum present.
Abby Selman, co-chairman of the 
Booth Committee, said that the committee 
desperately needs someone to supervise 
building the booth. She also added that 
people are also needed to help build the 
booth, but that the lack of tools might 
cause some problems.
A dorm resident from the Hill told 
Council that the method SDC uses to 
allot money to private parties is clumsy 
and inefficient. He said that the signa
ture system causes problems because there 
is no way to tell how much money will 
be given until the very last minute. Coun
cil agreed, but Carolyn said that no one 
has been able to suggest a better way.
AIESEC plans 
seminar
What do these men know that could 
make YOU a success?
The International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Manage
ment (AIESEC) has invited several leading 
area businessmen to tell their success 
stories at a seminar, Monday, April 10,
7 PM in the Wherrett Room.
Among those speaking are Gerrit Butter, 
Assistant Vice President of Mellon Bank 
on banking; David W. Sculley, Vice Pres
ident of New Products for Heinz, U.S.A.5 
on marketing; and Robert Cavanaugh, 
senior partner of Arthur Anderson, on 
accounting.
According to seminar co-chairperson 
Illene Steiner, these men are dynamic 
speakers and gentlemen. Students can 
talk candidly and openly with top men 
in their chosen field during the seminar,** 
she added.
This is the first in a series of AIESEC 
career seminars which will continue next 
year. Everyone is welcome, and refresh
ments will be served.
Dorm safety questions raised
by Jean Pellegrini
' Students should be informed of whats 
happening with safety and security, com
mented Bob Anderegg, Coordinator of 
Safety and Security at CMU. There is 
always a problem of communication which 
can be limited to insure safety.
 Over the past two years, interest in 
safety by the campus and Security has pro
gressed. Presently, a First Aid training 
program for the security staff is in effect 
and Emergency Team training in organiza
tion and response for the Security officers, 
Physical Plant employees, etc. is being 
planned.
An example of the effect of quick com
munication is the supposed fire in Morewood Gardens on Sunday, March 12, 1978. 
Actually, an alarm sounded at 2:09 PM and 
campus security was able to arrive quickly 
enough only to find that a generator in the 
basement had been overheating. The smoke 
discovered by a student on the 4th floor 
caused her to pull the alarm. It didnt 
get to the point where it could have caused 
serious damage. Someone's alertness and 
awareness of safety procedures avoided a 
potential disaster.
' We did get a response from three area 
companies. Were blessed in the respect 
that we have close contact with the Oak
land, Shady side, and Squirrel Hill fire de
partments. The response from them is al
ways quick.
With Morewood Gardens and its highrise construction, we were especially con
cerned with the availability of elevation 
equpiment. On the First response, they 
immediately send an aerial rig, and on the
second, they send two more. There are 
only a total of seven rigs in the city.
Communication precautions are taken 
in the event of an emergency. For example, 
when a buildings water system is drained, 
we notify the liason fire departments. They 
know in case theyd have to answer a call 
that they might need extra, equipment or 
certain hydrants. Also, they have been pro
vided with campus maps, building diagrams, 
and we provide accessibility to buildings 
by raising gates, dropping chains, etc. 
There has been discussion about More 
wood Gardens alarm system not operating 
properly. A wiring system problem does 
exist but the suggestion to install a general 
alarm has been made.
There are some things that students 
should already be aware of in case of fire. 
Alarm and fire extinguisher locations in 
your dorm should be made well known. 
In Morewood, there is a general alarm lo
cated in the first floor lobby directly be
hind the desk. "Certain cautions must be 
applied. If you use the wrong thing this 
can create a problem as well. For example, 
using a straight stream of water on an 
electrical fire could electrocute the per
son holding the hose or nozzle.
 Last year, when inspecting the fire in 
Scobell caused by a Japanese-type lantern 
catching fire nad dropping in a mattress 
in a student's room, I came upon other 
things that were potential hazards. Bunk 
bed construction added to the potential 
problem because the material is combus
tible and the bunks cut down on necessary 
air space. Various appliances overload the 
electrical system. Wiring in the older
dorms is not adequate for some of the 
newly designed appliances. Students must 
be more cautious with these.
In the future, there may be programs 
set up to improve security/safety commun
ications to the students. In the meantime, 
students should be aware of as many safety 
precautions as they can.
Carlow housing 
available
by Bill Dillon
The Housing Office is trying to deter
mine whether any CMU female students 
are interested in a more traditional dormi
tory environment. Iri an attempt to alleviate 
present crowded conditions, CMU is con
sidering the leasing of 200 spaces from 
Carlow College. Significant characteristics 
of the Carlow dormitories are: 1) females 
only, 2) limited male visitation (Friday 
9:00 PM-2:00 AM, Saturday 2:00 PM2:00 AM, Sunday, 2:00 PM9:00 PM,
3) required breakfast and dinner board 
plan, 4) free bus transportation to the 
CMU campus, 5) all large double rooms 
with public baths, 6) excellent security, 
7) each floor has a lounge area with kitchen, 
television and laundry equipment. The 
rates for this facility would be comparable 
to present CMU rates. Anyone interested 
in finding out more about this arrangement 
or in expressing a desire to live at Carlow 
next fall should contact the CMU Housing 
Office. Unless sufficient interest is ex
pressed the university will not proceed 
with plans to acquire these spaces.
Students invited to tap educational funds
Earle Swank, dean of Student Af
fairs, urges any member of the campus 
community, particularly students, to sub
mit proposals to the administrating com
mittee of the Research and Development 
Fund for Education.
Proposals should be aimed at directly 
improving CMUs methods of teaching or 
the material that is taught. There have 
been no student proposals submitted so far 
this year.
It is expected that projects funded will 
have an impact on the University, con
tain elements that are transferable to other 
courses, and/or will improve productivity 
and ultimately have impact on the cost of 
instruction.
Persons planning to submit proposals 
are asked to submit them at least one 
month before funding is needed.
The following decisions of the Com
mittee in connection with recent pro
posals may assist you in your planning of 
a proposal:
1. The Research and Development 
Committee will not support sabbat
icals and will not ordinarily support 
the release of already budgeted fac
ulty time.
2. Proposals should contain a plan for 
the evaluation of the proposal and a 
method for dissemination of the res
ults of the project or innovation 
envisioned.
3. The fund will not ordinarily be used 
for the purchase of equipment which 
should be provided for in the capital 
budget of the University.
Projects which have been funded so far.
include an experiment with an interdiscip
linary project in SUPA drawing upon the 
expertise of the Humanities, the Fine Arts, 
and the Social Sciences; a project to study 
through extensive research the precise 
method of training which has had the most 
impact upon the education of actors; a pro
ject for the development of an instruc
tional system which takes into account the 
broad range of readiness of students in the 
Department of Architecture for the rig
orous work in statics and building science 
fundamentals required in that curriculum.
Projects should be submitted during the 
Spring Semester for funding in the Fall of 
1978. The Committee will also consider 
the funding of projects to be carried out 
during the Summer of 1978.
Proposals received by April 1 will be 
considered no later than May 1.
tl
w
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4TARTANMarch 21, 1978
Cyert chatArchitecture Department under scrutiny
continued from page one
a black fraternity house. CMU students 
who now wish to live in a black fraternity 
or sorority house must go to Pitt to do 
so. Two students also suggested that some 
blacks desiring bids to join certain ex
isting houses on campus, didnt receive 
them because they were black.
President Cyert was visibly disturbed by 
these comments and asked the group, Is 
it right to have segregated frats along any 
lines, it seems to defeat the purpose?
Cyert indicated that he was going to obtain 
more information on the subject from 
Dean Swank.
It was also agreed that there exists certain 
myths on campus concerning black stu
dents (C-MAP, Spirit, different expecta
tions of academic performance). In re
sponse to a question, Cyert encouraged 
the TARTAN to address these myths and 
the general issue of race relations on cam
pus. There also was talk of reinstituting 
the University Committee on Racial Effect 
and examining whether that Committees 
previous report was heeded.
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC
A relaxed President Cyert discusses racial issues
You dont like the shape Americas in?
O.K. change it.
I You can, you know, in VISTA. VISTA 
needs volunteers in service to America. 
There's a lot to be done. There's a lot you 
can do. And while you're doing so much for 
someone else, youll be doing a lot for 
yourself in VISTA. VISTA. It's the shape of 
things to come for America. Be part of 
it. Be part of VISTA.
Call toll free: 800-424-8580. Or write 
VISTA, Box A. Washington, D.C. 20525.VISTA
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
T
? morew 
?ki
?c
?thursday
ood gardenstie cafe 
Jinnermarch 23id.-
by Stuart Seidman
The National Architecture Accredita
tion Board (NAAB) came to CMU on Sun
day to review the accreditation of the De
partment of Architecture. NAAB will be 
on campus till tomorrow afternoon touring 
the architecture studios, talking with stu
dents and teachers, and reviewing the ar
chitecture program.
When the department was last reviewed 
in April 1976, it only recieved a two year 
accreditation instead of the full five years. 
However, according to Robert Taylor, the 
acting head of the Department of Archi
tecture, CMU is now in the catagory of 
schools that are easily accredited.
The Department has spent many hours 
producing preliminary reports in prepara
tion for the NAAB visit. CMUs program is 
unique because it is the only architecture 
school in the country where you can grad
uate in less than five years. The Depart
ment has attempted to show the NAAB the 
advantages of the CMU system.
In a meeting last Thursday between 
Akram Midani, the Dean of CFA, Robert 
Taylor, and students, Midani remarked that, 
the University hopes they [NAAB] un
derstand why we are doing what we are do
ing. He continued that CMU is eager not 
to create any misunderstanding as he be
lieved occured in 1976.
Since 1976 there have been many 
changes in the Architecture Department. 
The first move taken after the last NAAB 
visit was the firing of department head, 
Delbert Highlands. There were then a 
number of committees formed to direct 
and plan for the future of the department.
One of the committees was on curricu
lum. This group consisting of students and 
faculty, along with administration, was de
scribed by Taylor as noble if not excit
ing. It is one of the few departments 
where the students have an active role in 
curriculum planning.
However, Taylor then described how 
the university has hurt the department 
through inadequate funding. The 1976 
NAAB report stated that the faculty at 
CMU was not paid well compared to its 
major competition, and that the depart
ment needs more senior appointments.
A major concern of the department over 
the last five years and a major criticism of 
the last NAAB team is the condition of the 
physical facilities of the Architecture de
partment. Taylor remarked that since 1976 
we have not improved our physical con
dition much, and that he has had to live 
with a series of plans for consolidation. 
Currently architecture has facilities in three 
buildings. In the number of locations the 
department has Taylor said were the 
worst-off department. Taylor said that 
the department is currently pushing a plan 
where the freshman studios, shops, and 
faculty offices in Doherty Hall would be 
moved to Margaret Morrison. But Taylor 
estimated the cost to be almost $500,000 
and that the university is only interested 
in the total cost.
Taylor ended the meeting saying how 
architecture is a relatively more expensive 
program to do well and that the univer
sity thinks were being treated well and we 
dont. He elaborated that Warner Hall 
uses a statistical view in allocating funds, 
giving to each department on an equal for
mula, but the architecture department 
needs both good people and physical facil
ities and they both cost money.
The NAAB visiting team has four mem
bers. William Geddis, the chairman of the 
visiting team, is the president of NAAB and 
one of the principals in the famous archi
tecture firm, The Architects Collaborative. 
Other members of the team are Keith McPheeters, the Dean of Architecture at Au
burn University, and Dan Gerst, a archi
tecture student at Ball State University in 
Indiana. The fourth member is Lawrence 
Wolfe, an alumnus of CMU who has a pri
vate practice in Pittsburgh. CMU selected 
Wolfe to observe the accreditation.
O'Nan
continued from page one
university transfers.
ONan adds that with her experience 
as a faculty member here, she has ob
served that C-MU tends to have a student 
body whose math background exceeds its 
verbal skills bcakground. Programs exist 
which allow people to strengthen their 
relatively stronger skills and neglect the 
place where they need help. As a result, 
we send people out half-baked. :
Overall, the AMS department and pro
gram should be able to deliver a more 
broad and better education to students 
under the direction of its new head, Mary 
Ann ONan.
{Thanks to Dr. ONans press secre
tary,. Gusty Sunseri who convinced her 
that late-night parties at Beta may broad
en her educational background).
^uditon
There's No Business Like . . .the exciting world of Show Business in our Theme Parks
KINGS ISLAND  Cincinnati, Ohio 
KINGS DOMINION - Richmond, Va. 
CAROWINDS - Charlotte, N.C.
Shows are presented with complete scenery, 
costumes, staging and choreography in fully 
equipped theatres and on modern outdoor stages 
for the summer. There are openings for:
SINGER /DANCERS AND MUSICIANS
$155 to $200 a week Plus round trip airfare to the park I
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Pittsburgh, Pa 
Wherrett Room. SKIBO 
Monday, April 3, 4-7 PM
MINSKOFF REHEARSAL STUDIOS
New York N Y
1515 Broadway
Thurs. & Fri.. April 6 and 7
11 AM to 4 PM
Singer / Dancers and Musicians  An accompanist will be provided, please br:nq music in correct 
key and wear clothes suitable for dancing
For more information, contact KINGS PRODUCTIONS, 1906 Highland Ave , Cincinnati, Ohio 4f>219

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978TARTANpage 5
TARTAN election yields winners
This is the first issue of the TARTAN 
under the direction of the new editorial 
board, elected March 13th. Jeff Zaslow, 
who served as Assistant FOLIO Editor and 
FOLIO Editor in his three semesters with 
the TARTAN, was elected Editor in Chief. 
Zaslow is a sophomore Creative Writing 
major.
Saul Carliner and Ellen Silverman took 
over the responsibilities of Co-Managing 
Editors. Saul, an Economics and Writing 
Major, had spent a semester as News Ed
itor. Ellen, an Applied Math-AMS major, 
was Business Manager this past year.
Brian Byrnes and Jean Pellegrini were 
elected as News Editors. Brian is an Elec
trical Engineering Major and Jeans major 
is Math-AMS.
Linda Deak was elected to the new poSenate murmurs
Continued from page two
Senate did pass a resolution recomending that the University pick up the tab for 
the Free Academic Student Tutoring 
(FAST) program. Dean Swank will go to 
the Resource Allocation Board armed with 
Senates request. Actually, it was Dean 
Swank who suggested that Senate request 
him to ask for University funds. Tumazos 
asked what happened?; it was thought 
that the University had already agreed to 
fund FAST.
President Cyert will be at an April Stu
dent Senate meeting, either the 1st or 4th 
week, possibly both.
The next Student Senate meeting is to
night at 7PM in the Wherrett Room.
Beginning next week this column will be 
written by the General Campus and Infor
mation Committee of Student Senate.
sition of Features Editor, Joanne Livitski was elected as Entertainment Editor, 
and Karen Yaksich retained her position 
as FOLIO Editor. All three are writing 
majors.
Other Editors elected or reelected were: 
Elliot Ohlberg-Assistant News and Fea
tures Editor.
Ed Sullivan-Sports Editor 
Tim Wenk-Production Manager 
Stephanie Waite-Business Manager 
V.R.V. Ramanan-Photography Editor 
Marsha Fairbrother is responsible for 
the new look on the Classified pages 
this week.
Pot warning issued
NORML (National Organization for the 
Reform of Marijuana Laws) has issued 
a warning for consumers to avoid using 
Mexican marijuana.
NORML also filed suit in Washington, 
D.C. that the U.S. government supported 
the spraying of herbicides on marijuana 
and poppy plants in Mexico.
The two principle herbicides used in 
the Mexican program are paraquat and 
2,4-D, both of which are extremely toxic. 
NORML said that any marijuana suspect
ed of being contaminated with paraquat 
or other herbicides should be analyzed 
by a licensed pharmaceutical laboratory.
According to Ken Stroup, national 
director of NORML, Marijuana con
taminated with paraquat cannot be easily 
detected by the consumer, though some 
seized samples have been described as 
sticky and yellowish.
Dean Swank disclosed President Cyert's proposal to convert Hunt Multi-Purpose room into a new stu
dent lounge. This proposal is expected to be one of several for increasing social interaction.
3WAYS II GET STAITEDFOR LIFE AFTER COLLEGE.
Reinforce your college degree and get a better start through Army ROTC Get 
management training Self-discipline A sense of confidence Earn the extra credentials 
that will set you apart as a responsible achiever You'll also receive $2500 over your 
last two years in the Advanced ROTC Program Whether your career plans are civilian 
or military. Army ROTC provides opportunities for both - active duty with a starting 
salary of over $11,300. or reserve service while employed in the civilian community 
Get startec for life -ifter college Get started in Army ROTC
THE
START.
If you are a veteran or a 
Junior ROTC graduate, then 
you started early - probably 
without realizing it That early 
start makes you automatically 
eligible to enter the Advanced 
Program
THE
START.
Start Army ROTC during 
your freshman or sophomore 
year with no military obliga
tion You'll find a number of 
ways to get started in a 
curriculum that's exciting, 
and flexible enough to meet 
your class schedule and 
academic needs
CALL:
578-2204
MMY MIC.
THE
START.
Get started in Army ROTC 
through Basic Camp at Fort 
Knox. Kentucky, this summer 
You'll get $500 for attending 
a challenging six week camp 
If your performance is 
exceptional, you |ust may 
qualify for a two year scholar
ship as you enter the 
Advanced Program

---------------------------------------------------

ShuShb
A Message to the Owners of the TARTAN
Life was meant to be editorialized
The problem, however, is that most of us were created 
to do the living, and the rest of us were saddled with the 
job of doing the editorializing. We at the TARTAN seem 
destined to be stuck in the latter group, and before we go 
off half cocked, or with our guns loaded and cocked, we 
thought it would be best to define our policy.
Our policy (that of the new Editorial Board, elected last 
Monday) is that we don't own the TARTAN. The students 
of Carnegie-Mellon own the TARTAN, Every full-time stu
dent has a share of stock in the newspaper by virtue of his 
student activities fee. Although the TARTAN returns no 
yearly or monthly dividends to its stockholders (except 
perhaps each Tuesdays edition...take that as you may) it 
still has a huge responsibility to its owners. In terms of 
editorial commitments and policy, this student-run, studentowned newspaper finds itself in an unusual predicament.
The Pittsburgh Press, The New York Times, and even 
U.S News and World Report have owners and publishers 
who have the final word on editorial endorsements and 
stances. If the man who owns the Press wants a Republican 
endorsed for senate, or if he wants his newspaper to take 
a strong position on potholes, the Editorial Writer can do 
nothing but follow his commands. The man at the top, the 
man with the money, can, and often does, control the 
choice of editorial subject matter and the philosophy of the 
Editorial page.
The TARTAN of course, cannot function in this way. If 
/ would ask each and every student who pays his activities 
fee what stand hed like me to take on an issue, /'d spend a 
week paging through the C-Book calling 683 or 682 exten
sions that no longer exist. The best possible solution is one 
of selective democracy. My only recourse is to poll the 
TARTAN Editorial Board, and to take their advice on how 
the TARTAN should approach and comment on an issue.
We, at the TARTAN, have adopted this new policy be
cause of the unusual way in which our newspaper is control
led. First of all, even though / am Editor-in-Chief, I am still 
one student paying the same activities fee as everyone else, 
and my power should be somewhat limited. / own just one 
share of stock. Every week this space is at my disposal, and 
it would be unfair of me to have such an enormous amount 
of clout that / could support my roommate for President 
of Student Government, or blast one of my teachers for 
incompetence. My opportunities for propagandizing would 
be unlimited.
Also, as with most editorials, this column has always been 
written with the word we instead of I. Using I would 
make the editorial one persons opinion, similar to an 
OP-ED Page article. Although TARTAN editorials are 
signed by the Editor-in-Chief, the we should leave it un
derstood that the view is inherently that of the TARTAN.
Of course, on many topics (congratualtions, pats on the 
back or humor) the editorial board will trust me, as their 
elected E-in-C, to write intelligently and meaningfully. But 
the blockbusters, the hot stuff, the radical stances, and 
the vicious attacks will be determined by collective agree
ment, although organized and written by me.
As the owners of the TARTAN, you still have options 
open to you. As always, letters to the editor will be printed 
as long as they are in good taste and are signed. Names will 
be withheld upon request. Also, student and faculty edit
orials (300-700 words) are more than welcome. From time 
to time / will open this space up to members of the Editor
ial Board (Managing or News Editors) and the same pro
cedure will be followed.
That is our policy. We are taking it seriously and we plan 
to research our facts, hit hard, and mean what we say. 
Please read this column. We're excited about it, and were 
liable to surprise you with some fascinating scoops and 
revelations.
This ends the initial report to the stockholders.
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
In Defense of Cyert 
Editor:
On February 14, at the invita
tion of the Student Senate Chair
person, President Richard Cyert 
attended a meeting of the Senate 
and spoke with the students who 
attended. An editorial which 
appeared in the next weeks 
TARTAN unfairly criticized the 
President, stating that Dr. Cyert 
sometimes doesnt come across 
too well when talking with 
students.
To qualify this statement, the 
editorial went on the say that Dr. 
Cyert walked in 25 minutes late 
and offered no apology or explan
ation, indicating total disregard 
for students and their time. 
This is not true. The President 
had left the University to go 
home for dinner that night a little 
later than he had wanted to.' He 
told Dean Swank that he might be 
as much as 30 minutes late to the 
meeting and wanted to know if 
there was any problem. Dean
Swank told the Senate Chair
person who felt there would be 
no problem. The fact that Dr. 
Cyert was going to be a little 
late was then announced.
When President Cyert was 
introduced, he rose, stepped to 
a lectern, and addressed the Se
nate. The editorial states that 
because the President spoke from 
a lectern those who didnt know 
any better might think the Pres
ident to be an aloof, standoffish 
person. Once again the edi
torial wasnt very fair. Dr. 
Cyert is certainly not going to 
wear faded jeans when addressing 
a group like the Student Senate 
nor is he going to slouch behind 
a table. He is going to present 
himself in a respectful manner. 
This is what Dr. Cyert did.
The rest of the editorial 
goes on to criticize the Presidents 
answers to questions from the 
students and is reluctant to praise 
Dr. Cyert for his willingness to 
meet with students and deal with
their problems.
The Student Senate hopes that 
Dr. Cyert does not consider the 
TARTAN editorial of February 
21 representitive of the students 
of CMU and also hopes that he 
will not be discouraged from 
attending future meetings of the 
Senate. ?
David G. Roussos 
Former Chairperson 
Student Senate 
Dissatisfied Dormies 
Editor:
In light of Daltons public 
response to Housing complaints, 
February 7, 1978, we realized the 
importance of voicing facts in
stead of bullshit. It is a known 
fact that the majority of dormi 
tory students are dissatisfied with 
the Housing operation, particu* 
larly the Housing Director, Gerald 
Dalton. The article which ap
peared included several weak dis
claimers including the the accom 
panying photograph. Old photo 
graphs can be deceiving and since
TARTAN
Volume 78March 21, 1978Number 24
Editor-in-Chief : 
Managing Editors:
News Editors
Features Editor 
Assistant News&Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor 
Production Manager:
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Saul Carliner 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Jean Pellegrini 
Brian Byrne 
Linda Deak 
Elliot Ohlberg 
Joan Livitski 
Karen Yaksich 
Ed Sullivan 
V.R.V. Ramanan 
Tim Wenk
Photography Staff: 
Production Assitant:
Skip Brazelton, Tad Dickenson, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Segal 
Marsha Fairbrother Stu Siedman
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50, (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003000000
*6u|op Aq UJB0| noA 'NVltVl 
ijimoj6 |euosjad 40 uoueojpuj ue sAe/v\|e j,uaje siduosuejx jnq 
'NV1HV1 uo 6ui>|joaa joj sijpajo a6a||OD aAjaoaj j,uom noA 'amj.
asn 01 uuaq* *nd o; Ai|urujoddo aqi sjajjo NVldV aM*
'spiaij. 40 jaqiunu Aue jo 
'Aqdej6oioqd 
'u6;sap 
'BumjjaApe 
'ssaujsnq 
'6u!Jum u; isajaiuj ue aAeq noA 41 
umo jnoA uo ansjnd roA asoqi aq ||iaa 
saouauadxa aA;;onpojd jsouj aqj 40 atuos 'joej u|
uioojssep aq* u; aq h;m a6a||oo ie ujea| noA ieq/v\ 40 ||e *Oj\|
aSdlloD ipiM 
ssaDonc
jssnbsj uodn ppqjiM auiBfyj
uoijjoqB uo apijJB 
;tJ38uis ueijnf ui pssssjdxs smsia
>qj qjiM UOlJOBJSlJBSSip SUI3JJ 
XS XlU SSdjdxS 01 3)(I| pjnOM [
:JO*!P3
uoujoqv
anjjojBg XBUissoy
aq oj UOSB3J 
3Ui usaiS s,3h 3snBosq jsjsbj 
siqj XddBq Xjsa tuj puy qjiM ui3 
-aq oj ipnui os aui psAOj aj^ ssnBO 
-aq jJBsq Xui ijb qjiM poQ saoi j 
XBpoj puy aj!l 3ui 3ab2 an Suisu 
ui pus suis Xui Xbmb )(ooi snsaf 
8uiXp ui jBqj .ajij Xui ui sjobj 
sssqj pajBj8ajui pire psjdsooB 
saj ssnsosq mou juaisjjip os 
si JsjsBg uo ijoopno sjoqM X^ 
jsaAij an da^ -Xepoj saijb ijijs 
si snsaf jBqj si ji jnoqB 8uiqj jubj 
-iodun sqj pire uoipaunsai sqj 
sbm jBqx Xepuns JsjsBg uo ooj 
3ui joj 3ji| 01 5fDBq unq jq8nojq 
jnq aui joj sip snssf jsj sh pip 
Xjuo jou si 3aoj s.poj) jnoqs jsoui 
sqj aui ssssaidun JBqM jng
t4 n sn jo Xjmb 
-lu aqj unq uo paXB[ SBq pjog 
aqj puB ji sjnd qBiBsj jaqdojd 
aqj sb ipaip snsaf uaqM XBpug 
pooQ uo pauaddBq JBqM si siqx 
uo sin snsaf uo psq aABq pjnoqs 
j Monos pire jau8 aqj jjb jnd 
3H *3Ui Suiqsiund jo pB3)Sui suiui 
jo dinjBu qsij[3s slip Xbmb 3?jbj
OJ p|JOM 3ip OJUl U0 SIH JU3S 3H
jBqj qSnoqj qonui os 3iu paAO^ a^ 
uiiH SuiXaqo jou ThT jusuiqsiund
3J3A3S p3AJ3S3p \ M3U?| OSJB 3H
qonui Xi3A aui paAOj sh J3A 
ji jnoqs Xbs oj psq 3H 8uiqjXuB 
oj uoTjuajjB SuiXBd jnoqjiM sjii 
UMO Xui 3AIJ OJ 8uiJJ3J3Jd JB3U 
UIlH J3J JtUpjnOM I SBM 3H 3SnB0 
-sq Xbmb jbj psuiaas sXbmjb 3^
3JI| P3JB3J3 OqM pOQ UIOJJ UOIJ 
-BJBd3S pSSnBD Siqx 3UI 3pEUI 3H 
puB-s4poQ ireqj iaqjBJ sjqSnoqj 
UMO XlU J3JJB 3uiMO||OJ SBM 
I jnq aiojaq ajq pBq \ jqSnoqj 
I 3Jn -Suiqjsuios subsui jsqj 3jij 
B 3ABq pjnOO [ jBqj OS 31U OJ 3S0J 
snssf jBqj susddsq os ji ip/w
3JIJ Xui qjiM op oj SBq 
ji jBqM pus pausddBq Te XqM si 
uoij33JJns3J siqj jcqM jno punoj 
3At| JBaX siqj ja^ aqBqonojun 
JUBJSip OS UI33S 3q pip Xq^ 33Bld 
jsjy 3ip ui AMS ay oqM psiap 
-uoM ApMSrM e jng jsuq^ snsaf
jo uoijD3jjnsai 3qj jnoqB stJ3jsBg 
jBqj jqSnoqj ussq ApMSTM stj|
XddBq 3UI S35JBUI
JBqM s4jBqj pus jnoqB oTM s.JdjSBg 
JBqM jo SuiJjuiqj sq fjj jnq uo sq 
IjiM sjq8noqj tsJ3qjo JBqM Shga 
J.uop I IPM ^OMiooqas sspis 
-3q s3uiqj Jdqjo uo puiui aqj 8ui 
-daa)j jsnf mTsMT ui-sireaqXnaf 8ui 
-jBa saoqs puB ssqjop SAg 3uijja8 
mpMSM Th auioq Jdqjis SuioS sq 
OJ pBjS 3JB Xsqx ooj geM j jiuipB 
jsnui j puB J3jsBg jnoqB XddBq 
tgeTTAt 3JB sjuspnjs pgMge ojs
:io|ip3 
;u|ds jajseg aq^
ueuureiQ
OJH iadddRi f esn 
juspisajj OJH s^pBIO *!f
psssBd si jusuisSpnf 
sjojsq pajapisuoa aq pThTA aqj 
jo sapis jjB jBqj qsiM puB pirejs oj 
qoiqM uo punoj8 ajBunji8ai auios 
aABq 3M jBqj |33J J3A3MOq op 
3yvv *S3S0[ 3ghpT3A3 suaddsq siqj 
ji sndureo sqj jijds Th sjBuaijB 
Jaqjis oj 3Jis3p ou SBq ojfl snssi 
sqj jo spis Jdqjo aqj jq8q oj 8uuq 
oj jduiajjB gM si J3jj3{ siqx
psjssnb
-ai xpuiSuo ojn mns Tu 
jjBq-auo AMS git?* Odil 
-jop Xauoui 3qx sssDOJd gheTMT 
ci3U0 usuiqssjj sqj jo jJBd M paja 
-pisuoD sq psspui pino3 TgAbA sqj 
jBqj pSUIUU3JSp 3JBUSS sqj mAgeeT 
jBqj jy 3AoqB psjBJSiunus sqj 
AMS TAbh jqSnoj AMS jBqj juiod 
uiBui sqj mThhTT ajBuas aqj uo
ajBusg sqj oj TgAS jssnbsj 
sqj Moq si siqx TgAbA ^Bpos M Th 
tuipunj sqj psjapisuoo sq ppioo 
qsBg sqj jo Suipunj sqj jou Th Jsq 
-jsqM jo juiod sjqBnSjB Xjq8iq sqj 
AMS siqx juiod 3uo jo uoijdsoxs 
sqj qjiM ajBua Xq dn jss S3|nj 
sqj jo i[B qjiM suq ui Suipunj 
ThT jssnbsj s^Odfl ^PEtu ssSuBqo 
sssqx oj pssjB hATM Xsqj qoiqM
SlIISlJJSApB sTe uo ssj ssijiAijsy
sqj pire sjbuss juspnjs Xq jusas 
sqj jo Suipunj sqj oj sdusjsjsj 
psjmbsj sqj 3ABq oj ssjSb oj pBq 
osib ojfl X[puoo3 XpnounuBun 
os pip Xsqx snduiBD sjijus sqj 
oj qsBg sqj usdo jjvpiJJo pjnoM 
Xsqj JsqjsqM sppsp oj psq ojfl 
jsjij sspqod sji jo omj sSuBqo 
oj psq Odil JBjnoijJBd uj 
Suipunj joj sjbuss SuiqoBOJddB 
sjojsq ssSuBqo suios s>|bui oj 
Xjbsssdsu mbs Odfl suoijisod Bp
-ijjoun sssqj 2ghnMT jsnf Xq mTAbA 
cdul T1W3 lUSJsXs 5|S3JQ
sqj jo -3JBMB usuiqssjj sqj 3geaMge 
pjduns jo uoijsunj JBinoijJBd sqj 
SBq Te q8noqjB snduiBO ATeTgA sqj 
oj usdo XijBpijjoun ussq ApMSTM 
t,q Te Xjpuosss suiSsq gAbA qsnj 
sjojsq S5JSSM ssjqj X[3jBunxojddB 
sjnsso ji OJH 3lP ^ pa-iosuods 
si qsBg uopuusjB/w 9q) q8noqj[B 
jsJij psju3ssjd 3q pinoqs sjuiod 
juBjJodun suios mATAy ssiuoui 
oijqnd qjiM pspunj sq jou pjnoqs 
sjojsjsqj puB TgAbA qsnj pTegTA 
cjBJj M si qsBg uopuusjBy^ sqj 
pspusjuoo SJOJBUSS sqj JSJJS{ 
psuoijusuisJojB sqj u qsBg uo 
cTAggATMa sqj si XpoBxs jBq^w 
-jusuinSjB sqj jo spis jsqjo sqj 
jusssjd oj jduisjjB eTeS TATTAe siqx
SJDBJ JUBJJOdlUl SUIOS pSJOU8l puB
sjuiod suios uo pssBiq sbm jsjjsi 
sqX qsBg uopuusjB^ (uoijbzi 
-ub2jq ibujsjbj j psjiun) Odfl 
jo Suipunj sjbuss juspnj oj sous 
-jsjsj ui JS5(JBg Xuox puB sjsuui 
S5ji^ jjb3 uiif sjojbuss juspnjs 
Xq psjjiuiqns sbm jsjjsi e NV1 
*>IVI 3MJ jo snssi jsbj sqj ui
:jJ!pg
O d'n Aq papuajaQ   
uoina infl
snduiBD sqj uo ASAeb {Buosjsd 
jnoX 8uisoduii pus uoijijsd snon 
-sipu siqj uo suiij tgeTAMS JO pBSJS 
-ui ji Suipuij AgeeT AThge pusds noX 
jtuop Xqyw qsBg uopuusjByw sqj 
UBqj snduiBO ATeTgA sqj Xq psJBqs 
puB psXofus sssj Suiqjsuios puy 
pinoo noX sjns uij Xsuoui AbMA 
hT TgMS XnBSJ noX JI SJBSS JSJ 
-Bg ThT Xsuoui AAeMT hT Xpps AMS 
ssuBuiJOjJsd siqj ojui jnd TThTTA 
puB suiij sqj gM jBqj sjou AAMATT 
O151SJIA11 UBOf puB OHSJlIfl^ SSnfl 
Xq pSJSAOD SBM 8ui 5JS3JO NV1
*HV1 i 9nss! 9UJBS UI.sssusdxs
Suippnq puB sjusAd umo jpqj Xq 
psjjnsui sjb jBqj sjsos psjBpossB 
jsqjo jsSjoj jtuop puy ssnp 
uoijBijiui puB S3SJ s4jsqj0jq XBd 
OJ 3ABq JOU op ssijiujsjbjj spis 
-jno ssoqx ssAyssuisqj ssijiaijsb 
ssoqj punj ssijiujsjbjj ibaiujb^ 
8uuds joj X88nfl pus qjoog oj 
08 spunj jpqj jo jJBd jnq fpuno3 
uuoQ juspnjs spunj sjbus
snduiBO
sqj jo JS3J sqj sb suibs sqj s^if 
jsnf sssj ssijiAijoB puB uoijmj 
jpqj XBd noX puiuisj 1 oqM sjusp
-njs SB sjsqiusiu pTegTATMTT AegNhh 
cAT oj pssnjsj SBq ATMgAA Ngho hhT 
ThT ssqsuj sXBjd Th sii^s AghpTA
cbA JON 5lOBI8 sJ!J!dS Puc
juids Th ATMTMae ojuo si AghpTAbAC
*OJfl JB dls ln9
JIBJJB usdo UB SI JI JSASMOJ-J
 jibjjb qsnj Xjiujsjbjj b si 
qsBg uopuusjB^ sqj snJx 'OJl 
jo Suipunj sqj dojs oj uoijijsd 
b SuijBjnojp Xq jq8iJ umo Jisqj ui 
^juspsssjd snojsSuBp,, b 8uijjss 
sjb sdosd ssjqj sssqj 5juiqj 1 js 
-?(jBg Xuox PUB ssuuj JJB3 
iuif sjojbuss oj ssuodssj ui
:jo)ipg
  qseg #<uado aqi
UBUI3J03 3ABQ
te\W 3ABQ 
zjbjv Marc
OSSSJQ ^JB^
JJBqofi Xppng
SpjBpnSSB3 5J3I|SJ
SI8J3JS qog
J3JSI3UIJOH SABQ
lUOZZIJBS l|3f)l
jf oddqijaQ *)] OUBUB^
XepijOH WVi 
.sisd||3g aSiosf) 
uun inBj
MarrMy p?ABa 
ub8o^ uiox
unjo^i uo>j 
j3i{dX3 ssny 
uossiiuBf unf
3JBUSS UMO Jisqj UI PUB 
snduiBO punojB uo 8uio8 si JBqM 
jo ATMSM 3Joui 3q oj jq8no mAThT 
cMgAA psjssp jsqjo sqj eoM AM gAS 
t, SJOJBU3S sssqx *8uis 5(3SiO 
AM qons AAeTebeTAM snduiBO usdo
jsqjo jnq (AQ08ANV U3do 
si qoiqM) qsBg uopuusjB^ 
spunj Xpio jou '0d'il *pa|3WJO0 
sq oj puBjs Xsqj t4qsBg uojsui 
-J3JBM 3AlSnpXS UB JOJ 
8UIJJ38 ifUP,GUi,tTI JBUJSJBJg 
psjiufi aqi jnoqB jssdn os ATAS 
oqM AThTMg.A ssjqj sqj ThT sy 
*-S69$ S3IJIAIJSB SAg suios
sjnosxs U3AS pinoo O'a'S 
3pBjg juids uiojj UBqj jas 
uiojj Xsuoui Jisqj joj sjoui jsS 
Xpjns pinoM ^^3 jo sjuspnjs sqj 
000^$ JSOuqB jo jdSpnq b qji^ 
Xsuoui jno jo 000t$ JSOuqB 
qjiM suop 2{3sav ^o^ig juids ssq
iBMM *0001$ B P8UHS 
si puB 000S$ J J^8pnq 8uijBJ3do 
siqBuosBSJ b sq oj sJBsddB JBqM 
psjssnbsj djs qjooq ibaiujb3 
8uiJds b X38nq b ssijJBd uuop 
pspunj ssiaoui jq8iu XBpjnjss joj 
siqisuodssj si qopiM *3 a s sjsi 
-xs ssijuoud jo uoisnjuoo jsba y 
*0001$ 3J3UJ B pSApOSJ UOIJBZIUB 
5jo saijob pus *sndiuB3 usdo jbsX 
linj b si qoiqM  3*a'S S69e$ i 
sjn8y iboiuiouojjsb ub qons psjBO 
-oiiB >539^ pBig s4juids sb qons 
uiBj8ojd snduiBO psjiuiq b jsqj 
! si Xq^ js3pnq SLSL s.s^buss 
sqj 3uisodxs NVI^VIS45Jssm jsbi 
SuipBSJ J3JJB pSflBddB SJB Sy^
tJOjipg
sai||0-j jaBpng
*STW PUB 8 M f
UOlJBJJS
-luiuipB sqj uo TTh qnj oj uisss 
jou op Xjjunoo siqj ui AAeTeATAb 
clun doj sqj jo suo nW3 8gsTMge 
mpjjnoBj pus sjuspnjs jo s3A3i 
sous2iipjui sqj sjBp ox 'Xp 
-JBipSUIUIl SpUUBqO JUSUIUJ3A08 
juspnjs jsdojd sqj 8uisn uoijBnjis 
siqj pTeThAT puB AegthsAT gheTMTTAe 
cilUipB 3qj jBqj pUBUISp 3yW SAIJB 
-J3dun si sSuBqo mpTeTh|Mge sqj jo 
JUSUIUJSp 3qj OJ >(J0M s3pqod 
USqM J3A3MOpi psSuBqo 3q JOU
pssu Xsqj Abnhbge Xjjosjip ssoqj  
jysusq oj knThS sspijod AM Nghn 
sy juspusdspui XnBOijqod sq 
hAeM pjnoqs ji juspusdspui X||Bp 
cgMgeT 8upq sjojsjsqj jsdojd pTeA 
cPtiUfj sqj gehTT AhgMTAeAAM p?puB 
cgeT AbeAhAT jou ssop 8uisnoq j|
3{dosd jo jsqiunu jeqj 
ssnoq oj psuSissp jou sjsm spsnb 
pus ssiduj sb p3sn 8uisq Xpus  
-sjd siuooj uiBjJdo jBqj jobj b si ji
SUOIJIPUOO pSpMOJOJSAO JUdSSJd
sqj dn TAbhh oj uoijBjjsiuiuipB 
sqj Xq jduisjjB siqssj M XjsnoiAqo 
si siqx Ji IOJ o auo ou puB phgM 
chMb M qjiM TTAT sq pjnoM Sureo^
jobjjuoo siq s>|BSjq juspnjs b 
ji jBqj psjjodsj NVXHV1
XnBoijSBioqos pssoons ( 
oj jsnf qjiM sdoo oj q8noud SABq 
puB uoijBonps jsqjjnj ThT sSsnoo 
oj SUIOO 3M jBqj J38JOJ Thg sn 
jsg 'sjuspnjs sqj jo spssu oiuiapB 
chM aqj aziuSoosj jou ssop Suisnoq 
jBqj suiBqs M si Te souBuuojJsd 
OIUJSpBOB psSBUIBp X{3JSA3S SABq 
PUB UBO SJUSUI38UBJJB tgebeT qjiM 
SlUSiqOJJ SJU30 PUB SJBIJOP JOU
sjdosd AM sjudpnjs SAeb hT gheTMheT 
csiqdos sqj SABq jsnui XjisjSAiUfj 
sqj sSpsiMou?! siqj qjiy^ 'ssuij
-pB3p 38UBqO UlOOJ JO SSS{pJB83J
inooo op siusjqojd sjBuiuiooy 
*S38uBqo gehhT ThT Xjiunjjod 
-do sqj 8uu3jjo Thg ssijisj3Aiun 
jsqjo SB J35(OBJ SU1BS sqj SJBJddo 
jsnui XqM ghAMAe hg Ae sjsqx 
ssSuBqo gehhT sjpireq XjiBoypsds ^ 
oj suosuios 3Jiq pTeATAbegv sqj 
j4ussop XqM mAThMTTghh Suipuiq 
-uou jo josfqns sqj uo snqM
psjnsssjd 3jsm 3^ XjJBd 
Jdqjis oj sssjnp jo sjnsssid Xub 
jnoqjiM ojui psjsjus 3q jsnui ji 
*piIBA XjibSsi sq oj JOBJJUOO B JOJ
ispjo ui soioqo ou SABq Xpjs 
-Jl sm suuop sqj ui saii jsnui sn ^ 
jo jsoui 3ou?s jobjjuoo sqj jo 8ui 
-pjoM oj sb uoijBJinsuoo jnoqjiM 
8uiu8is OJUl PSOJOJ HB 9JSM 3^
juspnjs gqj ThT Thg jnq poqos 
gqj ThT qoB9jq ThT sgipguigj 
pus suoijosjojd sspiAOjd Te -jusp 
-njs sqj TAgeMtM pssBiq XiJirejBjq 
si 4tThMTTghhCC 3qx 10U 5(Uiqj 3^ 
JOBJJUOO B XnB3J JddBd JO S03ld ^ 
jBqj SI, JU3UI3JBJS jBqj JO JJBd
3uo uoijssnb s^\ '3iqB5{BSjqun 
si ThMTTghh sqj jBqj suirep ghTeMv 
Oos pMA hT sjnS sqj SABq pjnoqs sq 
usqj uisqj ui SASipq j4ussop 3q Te 
sspiiod siq ATM Xsqj usqj sspqod 
SOJOJU3 UBO 3q JI AgheThM siq JOJ 
Xjqiqisuodssj 35{Bj puB TAAT hST
UMO Siq UO PUBJS OJ UOJIBQ JOJ ^ 
suioo SBq AgeT sqj jBqj psj s\\
SJU3UISJBJS SAlJISOd XisnoiA
-qo sjb suoijssnb sssqj ^jbuisj 
s4uojibq oj Suipjoooy joj 
-osjiq Suisnoii jno jo sjusuisaoui 
sqj jojjuoo Xpjsiduioo uohiq 
XuBoyiosds  uoijBJjsiuiuipB sqj 
SSOQ jsddnd b uojibq si 44uisqj 
Supjojus X[UO UIB I puB SJBdX 0 
IBJ3ASS joj psjsixs SABq sspqod 
3S3qX, *S38uBqO UIOOJ puB SJOBJJ 
-UOO OJ pJB3J Ul P3JBJS UOJJBQ
S3JB
-jsdo Suisnofi qoiqM ui ssuss 3iuj 
sqj puB suoijdsouoosiui sssqj jo 
SJBMB 3pBUI SJB SJUSpnjS jBqj {BJIA
si ji *s3nssi Suisnoii Xubui 8uipjB8 
-sj suoijdsouoosiui snouss qjiM  
P30BJ 3JB HN3 i sjuspnjs uuop 
sqj XjJUBJJOduiI 3JO^ 35JIJ S?(00I 
sq JBqM mou5{ j4uop Xsqj sb UMop 
uiiq >(objj oj fiBj suisiqojd qjiM 
sjuspnjs souBJBsdds jusosj siq 
oj 3nQ *(3qoBjsnoui pire pjBsq 
[BijuBjsqns b qjiM 3*1) ojiuSooui 
sisabjj uojjbq *jp^ soyjo Suisnoji 
sqj qjiM psdopAsp SBq JOJnj 
sjajjai 3JOUJ

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
general
 Israel's 30th Anniversary will be the focus
of the Jewish Community Center's first 
Israeli Art Exhibition, showing now at the 
 JCC, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue.
Quasar Absorption Lines" will be the SARC Summer Job Hints: SARC'sSummer
topic of a lecture by Professor Arthur Job Bank has gathered information from 
Wolfe of the University of Pittsburgh various companies about their summer job 
Department of Physics and Astronomy, opportunities. Below is a list of companies, 
The lecture will be at 4:30 PM, Wednesday, their locations and majors they are seeking 
March 22 in Science Hall 8427. This for summer work. If you are interested, 
lecture is sponsored by the Society of come to the SARC office, fifth floor 
Physics Students. All interested students Warner Hall for more detailed information 
are welcome. (addresses, contacts) about these companHuman Sexuality Programs: Tuesday, ies.
March 21 ."Sexuality"Topics included are: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Allena)Tracing growth and development of the town, PA, ChE, ME, MMS, AMS 
human body from conception through The Clay Place, Pittsburgh, PA, Ceramics 
adulthood; and b) Psychological sexual Millcraft Industries, Inc., Washington, PA,
ME
John Hopkins University, Laurel, MD^ EE, 
ME, Math, Physics 
Howard, Needles, Tanimen and Pargendoff, 
Cleveland, OH, CE 
FMC Corporation, Homer City, PA, EE, 
ME
MPR Associates, Inc., Washington, D.C., 
ChE.CE, EE, ME, MMS 
PPG Industries, Inc., Harmar Township, 
PA, ChE, EE, ME, MMS, Chem, Physics 
Cento Industries, Inc., Fort Worth, Balti
more, Atlanta, CE, ME, EE 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, 
EE, ME, MMS, Math, Physics 
Lincoln Electric Co., Cleveland Oh, EE, 
ME, MMS
Koppers Co., Inc., Pittsburgh, PA, ChE, 
CE, ME, EE
growth. Wednesday March 22: "Alter
native Life styles a)Heterosexuality; b)
Homosexuality; c) Bisexuality and d) Le
gality and Rights. Programs are at 6:30 PM 
n the Morewood Rec Room.Refreshments 
will be served. Co-sponsored by Peer Help,
Residence Life, and Campus Program 
Planning.
Dr. Mark Snyder, Department of Psychol
ogy, University of Minnesota, will speak on 
'The Self-Perpetuating Nature of Social 
Knowledge, Thursday, April 6 at 3:30 
PM in Baker Hall 340, as part of the 
Psychology Department Colloquium Series.
Dr. Howard Gardner, Department of 
Psychology, Harvard University, will speak 
at the same time and place Thursday, April 
13, on "The Development of Metamorphic 
Operations.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE-Student Gov
ernments's Grievance Committee will meet 
Wednesday, Mar. 22 in the Wherrett Room, 
of Skibo. Many problems plague CMU's 
student body. The Grievance Committee's 
purpose is to hear, investigate, and act 
upon individual students' problems.Please 
bring us your gripes!
PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTSCan
didates to fill the offices of Treasurer of 
Student Government, Assistant to the 
President, Chairperson of the Grievance 
Committee, Chairperson of the Budget 
Reform Committee, members of the Grievvance committee, and members of the 
Budget Reform Committee will be appoint
ed tonight at the Student Senate meeting 
I in the Wherrett Room of Skibo at 7 PM.
The appointments will be made by Student COUNTY AIR POLLUTION PRESENTA 
Government President John Tumazos. The TION. A project team composed of Engitreasurer, assistant, and chairpersons must neering and Public Policy undergraduates, 
be confirmed by the Senate. All interested and School of Urban and Public Affairs 
students are welcome to attend. Master's students will conduct the second
Ben Tatar, actor and English dubbing dirpresenation on County Air Pollution at 
lector, will be the speaker when the 1977-78 3:30 PM in Breed Hall (Margaret Morrison)
The Summer Studies Office of CarnegieMellon University is looking to hire a 
staff of resident counselors to coordinate 
and supervise ,a student-life program for 
high school students attending the Ad
vanced Placement/Early Admission, Fine 
Arts Pre-College and Project Upward 
Bound Programs. Counselors must be 
energetic and willing to live and work 
closely with the program's participants. 
Compensation includes room and board 
for the six-week session, June 26 through 
August 4. Applications, along with the 
detailed job descriptions, are available in 
the Summer Studies Office, first floor of 
Warner Hall.
(Interview Series continues at Point Park 
College, Tuesday, March 28 at 11 AM in 
I Auditorium II.
Kits containing information about the May
15th Commencement should be picked up
PEER HELP...a place to go. People to
talk to. We are student volunteers who 
care. No matter how big or small your 
concern, we are here to help in anyway we 
can, in the office or over the phone. Apby graduate and undergraduate candidates pointments are not necessary and all of our 
at their departmental offices during the services are free, with total confidentiality, 
week of April 18. Five Commencement Call621-9900 or 578-2904; or drop by 
invitations are included in each kit. 150-A Baker Hall.
T
TARN NEpkf AVAILABLE! A
R
T A 
N
INSTRUCTIONAL TELEVISION PRE
SENTATION. A project team composed 
of Engineering and Public Policy under
graduates, and School of Urban and 
Public Affairs Master's students, will 
conduct the second Drpsentation on In
structional Television at 3:30 PM in 
Scaife Auditorium.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students during March 
and April. Students who wish to meet 
individually with the president should 
telephone his office, 578-2200, for an ap
pointment between 3 and 4 PM. The hour 
between 4 and 5 PM will be open for stu
dents who want to meet with the.pres
ident but do not have an appointment. 
Display of martial art. April 1, 7:00 PM, 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial, sponsored 
by Civil Air Patrol. Admission $2.00. 
Tickets available at Skibo Information 
Desk.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Free rolls are scheduled for each Saturday 
and Sunday morning until Carnival. Good 
luck to all! For information, call Gerd 
Beckmann at 578-2513 or 422-8611. 
The Pittsburgh Student Post of the Society 
of Military Engineers, S.A.M.E., will be 
sponsoring a lecture on "Liquifacation: 
The Future of America's Coal Tuesday, 
March 21 at 7:00 PM in Sch 7500. All 
interested persons are invited and refresh
ments will be served after the presentation.
Showing at the Forbes Street Gallery
through March 22Cynthia Ferrence, 
Linda Pancari (weavings, paintings, draw
ings, etchings) Gallery Plus Cheryl Janey 
(Graphic Design). The Gallery is located 
at 5200 Forbes Avenue and is open Wed
nesday through Sunday: 12-4 PM and 
Tuesday through Thursday evening, 7-9
The National Organization for Women will
hold a rally and lobbying action for the 
Equal Rights Amendment Seven Year 
Extension at 12:15 on Wednesday, March 
22, beginning in Market Square and ending 
in the offices of three area congressional 
representatives.
VIGIL OF EASTER Saturday night at 11
in East Liberty Lutheran Church, 5707 
Penn Ave. off Circle. Three parishes and 
Lutheran University Center celebrating 
Light and Renewal.
Thomas Geismar, of Chermayeff and
Geismar Associates, New York, will de
liver the next Design Department lecture 
Wednesday, April 5, in SCH 7500, at 
8:00 PM.
The TARTAN is opening its Classified
Fence to the CMU community for ten 
dollars . The fence will be filled each week 
on a first come first served basis. Paint 
the TARTAN fence. Call 578-2111, or 
leave a message at the Skibo info desk, 
c/o the TARTAN.
EPISOCOPAL PRAYER SERVICES will
be held in Skibo 39 Mondays and Wednes 
days at noon. Eucharist with Johathan 
Appleyard Thursdays at 1:00 PM during 
the remainder of the spring semester 
HOLY WEEK-Liturgy at 8PM, Thursday 
and Friday. On Sunday at 10 and 11 AM 
St. Andrew's Lutheran, Centre and Morewood.
scholarshipsawardsprizes
$3,500$2,500$2,000 To be awarded
to the three top essayists by Friends of 
Animals, Inc.
The Regina Bauer Frankenberg Scholar
ship contest is aimed at fostering interest 
in changing the relationship between 
humans and other life forms. Awards will 
be given to students who present the three 
best essays incorporating animal rights 
principles in support of a Federal legislative 
campaign. The subject of the essay is 
"Why should Congress, on behalf of the 
people, the animals and the environment 
ban the leg-hold trap?
For further information and entry form 
please write: Friends of Animals, Scholar
ship Committee, 11 West 60th Street, New 
York, NY 10023.
Writers: You can win $100; $50; or $25
in cash and book prizes for best short 
story, humorous essay, or other short 
pieces between 250 and 1000 words-with 
free copy of winning College Contempon 
aries Magazine for all-if you enter the Col 
legiate Creative Writing Contest whose 
deadline is April 25. For rules and official 
entry form, send seld-addressed, stamped 
envelope to: International Publications
4747 Fountain Ave., Dept. C-3, Los 
Angeles, CA 90029.
The National Poetry Press announces that
the closing date for the submission of 
manuscripts by college students is April 
Any student attending either junior or sen
ior college is eligible to submit his verse. 
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred because of 
space limitations. ;Each poem must be 
typed or printed on a separate sheet and 
must bear the name and home address of 
the student and the college address as well. 
Manuscripts should be sent to the Office of 
the Press. National Poetry Press, Box 218 
Agoura, Ca. 91301.
The Society of the Plastics Industry,
Inc., Expanded Polystyrene Division, an
nounces a $1000 scholarship award. Any 
innovative design for almost any practical 
application of polystyrene foam may win 
an award. First Award: $1000, Second 
Award: $300, Third Award: $200. Two 
Honorable Mentions: $100 each. Details 
available from The Society of the Plas
tics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines Avenue, 
Des Plaines, II., 60018. _____
r</"
rrrrr.rr.i.i ...rr-rr
TEN DOLLARS
-----
tRPNT kiOfmtRPNT NfPefg
.4'PAINT Pit FENCE
TAnO
R 
T 
A
N
 r~K ;v.r\\-y-:  v.:-V. xVyJiSv... ,--aV-Lv*^ .>*-1r'*vi

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
i ' K, < #/*/.! (
lubs
JSm
Roomate needed: Female. Share Shadyside apartment. April or May. Call Leslie: 
441-7695
To Diana and D. lannawe want you on 
the TARTAN staff. Love, Marsha, Linda 
and Elliot (the three stooges).
The CMU Law Club will meet tonight in
Skibo Room 12 at 7 PM. Anyone inter-1 
ested in law is invited to attend.
The GSIA Student Senate Seat is open.
Any GSIA student interested in filling 
this seat should submit a petition (avail
able at Skibo Information Desk) con
taining at least 25 signatures of GSIA 
students.
ldeM Government's Thursday. March
d mtee vW r"eet m45 A 9**
 00 PM in SWb "dTd the recent 
'.deaf f ,uror h3S ThT Budget Reform
.Committees i' the 3Ctn
^better way of , ..dents are
irnon>es_^\^
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential,
caring friend, Lifeline 341-3322. Freej 
(pregnancy testing available.
Addressers Wanted Immediately! Worl
Jat homeno experience necessary excel
lent pay. Write American Service, 8350| 
Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 75231
5:
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy massproduced rings? Have your own design 
created. Call: 243-5458.
Child care available in my home in Squirrel
Hill. Experienced, references. 421 -8959.
i Psychology  ^ '^ 'ur PhD program in
(being accepted for ,ogy Existen' Clinical-Counseling ^ State approved
tial-humanistic write for free
I for professional I icens^ $1.00. Or.
1 brochure, cummt^ petef KoeSGeorgeMuench ^co|le9eAvenue.Pa.o 
tenbaum, Dean. r o _
 i:<rnia 943O.All"
j Croaked.
Muffin. Beloved goldfish of Laura, Rose, 
I Sheila. January 25. Gift of Scott Pollack. 
I Rest in Peace.
Wednesday, March 22, the CMU Law I
Club will present The Paper Chase. Shows! 
in Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8:30, and| 
11 PM. Admission is $1:00.
classified
Entertainment is looking for innovative
people who would like to write back
ground and feature stories on entertain
ment. Leave name and number at TAR
TAN mailbox, Skibo Information Desk.
People interested in working on Features 
articles should contact Linda c/o TARTAN 
1578-2111. Story ideas, photographers, 
{writers, reporters desperately needed.
University Graphics, due to overwhelming
commercial success of its tattoo service, 
now offers custom body painting. Se Mike 
Hoffman after midnight.
The TARTAN staff wishes everyone a rest
ful and safe vacation. You all come back 
now, y'hear?
mu
Need money? Carnival committee needs
people to sell tickets ($2.50 per hour). 
Hours needed will be April 13 (5-12 PM); 
April 14 (12-12); April 15 (12-10 PM), 
for four hour shifts. If interested, leave 
! name, telephone number, and hours 
available at Skibo Information Desk.
Tirm committment oy lotn. Jett.l
u   *- Tsrssrs,Reward offered. t
Ann King at 2850. ______
FOR SALE: Comfortable sofa-bed $75.00.
Also some houseplants. Call Sarah x2479 
days; 687-2387 evenings.
'Good-looking, solid young man, Co
lumbia Business School graduate, transfer
red to Pittsburgh, and very impatient with 
singles bars. Sincerely interested in meet
ing gracious and intelligent young lady 
in mid-20's. Sincere replies with photo 
only answered. Write: S.H. P.O. Box 
5351 Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
Questions about your apartment? How to
deal with your landlord who's given you 
problems all year? What if you run out 
before your lease does? Ask these ques
tions and more of University attorney Al 
Brannick, at a special luncheon forum - 
"Everything you always wanted to 
know about apartments, but didn't know 
who to ask/' Thursday, April 6, Wherrett 
Room, Skibo 12:30 PM. Free. Sponsored 
by Campus Program Planning.
..
iiin
Self-Defense Training for Women taught by
Feminist Karate Union. Classes begin 4/11; 
276-4527.
WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English conver
sation. No experience, degree or Japanese 
required. Send long, self-addressed envel
ope for details. Japan-B42, 411 W. Center. 
Centralia.WA 98531
mm
Summer sublet wanted: Needed for May
1, 1978. Must be air-conditioned one bed
room apartment or efficiency in Shadyside 
or Squirrel Hill area. Call 422-9940 be
tween 9:00 and 11:00 PM.
Wanted roomate: Needed for March 10,
1978. To share two bedroom Shad/side 
apartment. $150.00 month includinq 
utilities. Call Pam 441-3025.
Housemate wanted for Squirrel Hill house.
Now through summer and beyond. $80/ 
month+utilities Call 422-9191.
Wanted: One thin lambkins by graduation
time. Love, Linny-poo. XOXOXOXOXOX
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTEDSpa
cious two bedroom furnished apartmentMt. Washington-one block to Monongshela 
Incline and busavailable immediately 
$ 125/month (plus cooking gas and electric) 
call durinq workina hours 566-304^
**Want to spend the summer sailing the
!)arribbean? The Pacific? Europe? Cruis
ing other parts of the world sailing or j 
xjwering yachts? Boat owners need crews! 
:or free information, send a 13 cent stamp I 
to Skoko.Box 20855,Houston,Texas77025
WANTED. TENNIS PROS AND ASSIS;i TANT PROS-Seasonal and year-round 
clubs; good playing and teaching back
ground. Call (301) 654-3770, or send 2 
complete resumes and 2 pictures to:
! Col. R. Reade, W.T.S. 8401 Conneticut 
[| Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 
20015.

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANMarch 21, 1978
[pmi?
Left:
Earle Swank reveals what the Dean 
of Student Affairs really does.
Right:
In addition to his Warner Hall re
sponsibilities, Dean Swank also 
teaches a freshman composition 
course He feels "It's easy for an 
administrator to forget what goes 
on in the classroom."
'  - '
Would you want your son to become 
the CMU Dean of Student Affairs? Before 
you give a resounding, Sure, thats an easy 
Warner Hall job, you should take note of 
the idiosyncracies which may develop from 
the position.
First of all, your sibling might start 
drinking three glasses of iced tea every 
morning for breakfast. Or, he may take up 
residence in the Woodlawn Apartments and 
grow to like the sound of Rod Stewart 
blasting in the next room. Or, he may even 
learn to like twelve hour work days.
When the Swank family heard that their 
Earle was accepting a teaching position at 
CMU, they didnt realize that he was fated 
to become the Dean of Student Affairs. In 
fact, Earle Swank readily admits that he 
kind of fell into the job.
Way back in 1948, when I left Harvard 
after obtaining my masters degree in En
glish, I received a phone call from Austin 
Wright, the head of the CMU English De
partment, who told me of an available po
sition. The requirements were to teach 
three sections of Freshman Composition 
and an Engineering Seminar.
Having the opinion of most young col
lege graduates, Swank thought hed like 
to try it out for a year. I taught scared 
and had student conferences like mad, 
Swank reminisces. Even harder was the 
fact that most of the freshmen were older 
than myself because of the G.I. Billmany 
of the guys were enrolling in college after 
completing their stints in the service.
He originally hadnt expected to stay at 
this university, but the quality of the 
students and diversified interaction of the 
colleges made it an exciting place to be. 
Swa;.lv made his administrative debut as 
the first Financial Aid Officer and also the 
only Foreign Student Advisor. He was re
cruited when CMU began to consider fi
nancial need over scholarship in deter
mining financial aid. Swank chuckles, At 
that time tuition had just gone up to $800 
a year.
After three years in that capacity, the 
university decided to again add diversity to 
Swanks life, asking him to become Dean 
of Men. I was still teaching half-time in 
addition to being Financial Aid Officer and 
Foreign Student Advisor, Swank recalls, 
but those were easier jobs then.
He was made Dean of Students in 1965, 
gaining the responsibility of handling stu
dent-life programs and student misconduct. 
He was also relieved of his responsibilities 
at Financial Aid.
It wasnt until 1969 that Swank became 
the Dean of Student Affairs. Im now the 
principle administrator for my division, 
dealing with student life, health center ac
tivities, the counselling center, and campus 
activities.
Students moaning about their work
loads should try to match the deans sched
ule. Swank narrated his typical weekday. 
Thursday mornings are taken up by the 
staff meeting. This is where I meet with 
Claudia Geraci and Corey Chase (residence 
life directors), Ann Wichner (campus activ
ities center director), and Lois Cox (Assis
tant dean of students) to discuss next 
weeks plan of action. Auxiliary Services 
personnel are invited to attendto insure 
an adequate exchange of information.
Last Thursday, for example, we dis
cussed Skibos closure for Spring Break. 
That same afternoon, I had planned to de
vote most of my time to budgeting, but I 
first returned a batch of telephone calls, 
and then decided to keep my scheduled 
appointments which took from 2:30 until 
6:00. He flipped open his appointment 
book where each days square was densely 
scribbled with memos.
Swank magically tries to work around 
his hectic schedule to see students who 
drop by his second floor Warner Hall of
fice. Usually I do end up staying past five 
oclock, thats the only time Dean Cox and 
I get a chance to talk about the days activ
ities.
Swank also chairs the Council on Stu
dent Development, meeting each week 
with academic advisors and deans. This 
interaction helps everyone to watch the 
total student experience.
In addition to his administrative respon
sibilities, Swank masochistically attends 
the evening meetings of the Student Sen
ate, the United Fraternal Organization, and 
the Freshman Weekend staff. This usually 
allows him to relax on every other Friday 
evening. When he is able, Swank tries to fit 
in the Wednesday faculty dinners. He 
claims its a good way to keep in touch 
with the faculty members whom he usually 
doesnt see very often.
About nineteen freshmen would also 
vouch that Swank is teaching an 8:30 
freshman composition course. I try to 
teach one class each semester, says 
Swank, its easy for an administrator to 
forget what goes on in the classroom. It 
also gives me regular contact with a bunch 
of students not having problems.
Those who have attended Freshman 
Weekend would also readily recognize 
Swank. He claims that he is the official 
worrier" for the three day camping session. 
Swank tries to attend each year, for he 
views it as still another chance to contact 
students. He smiles, 1 can even usually 
drag someone out for an early morning 
swim.
When there is a lull in his hectic sched
ule, Swank relaxes with his hobbies of 
watercoloring, cooking and organ-playing.
Ive abandoned my camera when 1 
take a vacation, and sketch or watercolor 
the sights I want to remember instead.
When he does get to grab dinner at his 
Woodlawn apartment, Swank is right at 
home in his kitchen. Im not much of a 
gourmet cook; I enjoy the old favorites. 
Even though the other occupants of 
his apartment building are students, Swank 
enjoys living there for that reason. Wood
lawn is even quieter now than when faculty 
families resided there, but its also a lot 
messier. Im finally getting used to the 
stereos and parties.
While in many positions on campus, 
Swank has noticed definite trends and
BY LINDA DEAK and 
MARSHA FAIRBROTHER
changes in student attitude. Today, they 
see CMU as an entry into professional ca
reers. Even at club meetings, I notice the 
studies come first attitude, which is com
mendable.
He obviously enjoys being around stu
dents, which makes for a successful Dean 
of Student Affairs. Swank hardly considers 
his job boring, especially because of the 
transiency of student leaders. The dean 
modestly concluded, I think I have been 
useful to many students.
Above: The music man of Woodlawn? One of Dean Swank's hobbies is organ playing^ 
Below: Staff meeting conducted by Swank, Others present (l-r): Gerry Dalton, Corey
Chase, Claudia Geraci.

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978TART ANpage 11
SHOW OFF THATW-Ikl\
Attention all potential beach bums 
who plan to head for the sun and surf!
Here is your big chance to make the 
entire campus "white with envy" at 
the sight of your bronzed cheeks, 
peeling shoulders and sun-lightened 
hair.
The TARTAN is offering prizes for 
the MOST STRIKING FEMALE TAN 
and the TOP MALE TAN! Two free 
passes to a local movie of your choice 
can be obtained just by following the 
simple entry requirements:
1. Go to a very warm place over 
spring break.
2. Remove your mittens, jacket 
and jeans.
3. Lie in the sun for at least one 
hour, repeating, "Pass the butter 
please."
4. Entrant must return to Pitts
burgh and finish the semester 
instead of enrolling at U. of 
Miami.
5. Stop by the TARTAN for a 
photograph between the hours of 
4:30 and 6:30 on Tuesday, April 
4th, or between 6:30 and 7.30 
on Wednesday, April 5th.
Tans will be judged by the TARTAN 
staff, and the winners and entrants 
will be featured in the April 11 issue.
Goodbye, good luck, and good tan to 
all!
Introducinga distinguishedIcelandic bird who has the answer to all those confusing airfares to Europe.
The bird you set* here is known 
as a l*uffin. A small, thoughtful 
resident of Iceland. One of the 
first things young IHjffins k am to do is fly Icelandic.
Beginning Apnl I 1978.
Icelandic uiD fly anv youth 
(1uffin or person) between 
\2-Zi years ok! roundtnp 
from New York to I Luxem
bourg for jusl $4.'t0
from Oucago. Return 
tickets are good for 
a full year. Fares 
subjetl to 
change
But there's 
more to 
Icelandic than just 
low fares.
You! get a great 
dinner and exceflent service on 
your tnp. And 
Icelandic will set 
you down nght m 
the nuddk' of 
Kurope. where 
you 11 be just hturs 
away by tr;un from 
Kurope s most 
famous landmarks.
So take a travel Up 
from Iceland's favorite 
turd. I^earn to flv KeLuidk.
See your travel agent. < )r wnte 
pi. #OS2. Icelandic Airlines. I'.O. 
III.). West Ileiupstead. NY llfWY2.
1212lor toll-free 
r in v< Kit area.
$275
rmiiMlinp 11- l.xLtv Al'KX late faun N Y*$400
HHiiKltnp youthfcirv. (mod to age 2.1.Icelandic to Europe.
*$^!.i|hiiK hi an ?nl*f>iuti>l In it x ivvd t.uiivs prmr in tkparlurt and |m<1 \* tt Mil Imi 8 i| rtwt-f \ .hkhi \<M 1 m .* It m.iv fix t favchm
Students given credit tips
by David Humphreys Jones
How does a college student establish 
a credit rating while going through school? 
It appears so simple. Merely open two or 
more credit (charge) accounts with 
local, large department stores, pay your 
bills promptly, (usually within 30 days), 
and within a few months you have an 
established credit rating in the area. Credit 
bureaus soon pick up credit rating on good 
customers as well as the poorer paying 
ones.
ATTENTION 
SORORITIES, 
FRATERNITIES, ETC. 
IMMEDIATE 
DELIVERY ON 
PRINTED T-SHIRTS, 
JERSEYS, UNIFORMS, 
JACKETS, ETC.
1808 Chislett St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
The major hurdle is opening a credit 
(charge) account. This is the difficult 
part. Most sizable stores wish you to have 
the following:
1. An income either from a side job or 
from investments.
2. A checking and savings account with 
fair amounts in each.
3. Two, three, or more sound credit ref
erences. Of course, if you are a scion 
of the Mellons or of some other pro
minent family, that will not inure to 
your detriment.
Actually, asking for these prerequisites 
prior to receiving a charge card makes the 
stores appear to discourage the extension 
of credit to young people. Perhaps that 
may be for the best for all involved. The 
perils of credit over-extension can lead to 
serious trouble. If you can adhere to cash 
for the less expensive items, and use 
credit only for the more costly ones which 
you absolutely need, you will be steering 
clear of the shoals of insolvency and 
bankruptcy, the latter of which can leave 
a blot on ones record for the rest of ones 
life.
Once a credit card is acquired, it is so 
easy to just say Charge it and flip the 
sales person the card. Watch it! That 
little habit can lead to disaster. Its so very 
easy! Discretion is the better part of valor 
(or should I say value). A good credit 
rating is a priceless asset! So always keep 
it that way.
David Humphreys Jones is associated 
with Parker-Hunter, Inc., members of the 
New York Stock Exchange.

!
a
NEXT WEEK 
CMU GOES
A O'NNan st rebaooadb'Ao ObrN'oAbrse
re A MaSrbannAeaAe 
dorNAbauThis June, you can go to 
one ot the worlds top 
universities and take 
courses in such helds as 
history, literature, lan
guages, sciences, mathe
matics. technology, the 
social sciences, and 
education.
Between classes ytnill 
find yourself in one of the 
worlds top recreation 
areas  near hills for 
hiking, ocean beaches, 
San Francisco Bay, and 
San Francisco itself  in 
some of the w .rIJs top 
weather.
Send tor your copy of 
our N78 Summer Session 
Bulletin and an applica
tion for admi-Mon by 
mailing the toupon 
he low.
S j n I' it I* I
Ml
IK l\OOIs
kl. iH.al. HnJ*
1 H ii u
Mt PtaHi*
r ^vm.ii is\
As \l SAI 1 In X
/ \Tl \IKA/>HI KM 1 1 Y
\M>
1 VXN \ "Il K V\( Is l)J?
STANFORDUNIVtRSITY
-IATI /II
c'ea i6 - A'g'Ob 19 
SbAetsnS S'NNan SaOOrse
Stan!oi.j, California (41S) 4^7-M(N
SAN lost
92 *
MON URI Y 
l ARMI-1

---------------------------------------------------

Come watch the stars come out at the 
Tartan Grill.
Tuesday, April 3rd. at 10 pm.
The A.B. Film Committee presents the Oscars.
The Academy Awards on a seven foot T.V. screen
(formal dress optional)
Every so often theres a movie that people relate to in a special kind of wag: The Paper Chase is such a movie.
r "IS JSmTI TIMOTHY OOTTOMS  UND5AY WAGNER  JOHN HOUSEMAN - THE PAPER CHASE 
. f.'.C i ni ipp fcoouceat* ROBERT C THOMPSON one RODRICK PAUL JAMES BRIDGES
* JAMES BRIDGES X-ri-. JOHN JAY OSOORNJR JOHN WILLIAMS caoRoronuuWEDNESDAY MARCH 22 
DH 2210, 6, 8:30, 11 p.m. 
ADMISSION $1.00
HOLY THURSDAY:
6:30 PM Heinz Chapel
The Mass of the Lord's 
Supper - Private Adoration 
until 10:00 p.m.
GOOD FRIDAY:
2:30 PM Heinz Chapel
Chapel open at 12:00 Noon 
followed by the Liturgy of the 
Passion and Death of the Lord.
HOLY SATURDAY:
9:30 PM
The Easter Vigil followed by 
the Mass of the Resurrection.
EASTER SUNDAY:
12:00 Noon Heinz Chapel
&
University Oratory ot the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

- ~March 21, 1978TARTANpage 13
H&SS, MIS 
may have 
fewer freshmen 
next year
The number of applicants for admis
sions to CMU is down this year for the first 
time in several years.
Although enough applications were recieved and the quality of those applying 
seems up, it appears that the distribution of 
next years freshman class among the Col
leges will not be exactly that desired.
According to President Richard Cyert, 
the goals will be met in CIT (300), CFA 
(280), and AMS (50). H&SS and MIS, how
ever, will most likely have fewer freshman 
than there is space for. (100-125 instead of 
175 for H&SS, 150 instead of 175 for 
MIS).
Cyert noted that this is peculiar to CMU 
and some other schools (Hiram, MIT, 
Northwestern), and he attributes the de
cline to several factors. One is a foulup in 
the timing of financial aid forms with re
spect to federal income tax return guide
lines, which was not the Universitys fault. 
Another is that word has been getting 
around that CMU is hard to gain admission 
to. The situation is being further explored 
by Vice Provost for Enrollment Planning 
Bill Elliot. Some disappointment was ex
pressed by Cyert, since the admissions de
partment has not changed and disrupted 
procedure to cause the decline.
Cyert also considers the fact that CMU 
is getting a reputation for being tough to 
get into. Thus, word of mouth is causing 
many qualifed students not to apply to 
MU.
TYPESETTERS
NEEDED!
Please complete this application and return it to the TARTAN as soon as possible. If you have 
any questions feel free to call 578-211 1 or leave a note in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
NAME
ADDRESSPHONE
WORK STUDY?TYPING SPEED
Have you ever used an IBM Selectric typewriter?Composer?
Please list all the hours you are available each day. ALL typesetters will be asked to work 
4 hours each weekend. Typesetters will be paid $2.50/hour.
MONDAYTUESDAY.
WEDNESDAY 
FRIDAY ____
SUNDAY
THURSDAY
SATURDAY
WAKE UP WITH
THEMORNINGSHOW
MUSIC NEWS WEATHER EVERY MORNING FROM
6:30tC>9:30
WRCT-FM 88.3
? morev 
*k 
?
thursdcr
vood gardens* 
tie cafedinnera march 23rd---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANMarch 21,1978
AIESEC Regional attracts students and businessmen
by Ellen J. Silverman
Successful. Professional. Inspiring. 
These are just some of the words to des
cribe the mid-Atlantic conference of the 
International Association of Students in Economics and Business Management.spon
sored by the Camegie-Mellon University 
AIESEC chapter, the regional was held at 
the Holiday Inn in Wilkinsburg on March
10, 11, and 12. The purpose of the confer
ence was to promote communication be
tween students and the business communi
ty thus providing students with a better un
derstanding of the practical side of manage
ment.
This communication was provided by 
seminars sponsored by both students and 
executives. One of the most important 
areas of AIESEC is marketing. AIESEC 
marketing consists of a campaign in 
which students visit businesses in their area 
and try to obtain summer employment for 
foreign students. This program provides the 
opportunity for actual business training 
and experience in the United States to for
eign students who could be future employ
ees or managers of U.S. foreign subsid
iaries, and in reverse manner, foreign ex
posure for U.S. students. The seminar 
covering this topic at the regional was con
ducted by two Georgetown juniors. They 
both felt the most important aspect of 
marketing interns entails not only promot
ing AIESEC but persuading executives to 
accept interns for summer employment. 
The best way to accomplish this is by con
sistently keeping in close contact with busi
ness executives. The student must be wellprepared when interviewing with business
men: the student has little time to present 
the best qualities of his product.
These aspects of AIESEC marketing 
could also be found in the career seminar 
presented by Dennis Ryan, Director of 
Career Services and Placement at CamegieMellon. He states that one of the most im
portant aspects of marketing yourself 
for a job is that you should learn about 
yourself by understanding the values you 
have developed as a result of past experi
ences. There were 5 career seminars spon
sored at the regional: Accounting, Finance, 
Banking, Marketing and International 
Business. The marketing seminar was 
given by Don Hallahan, Manager-Business 
Planning, Koppers Company, Inc., who 
spoke on Domestic Marketing and Paul 
Gadjeff, Manager-Special Projects, Dravo 
Corporation, who spoke on International 
Marketing. Mr. Hallahan defined a cor
poration as an institution which responds 
to the continually changing needs of the 
consumer. The key to marketing, he felt, is 
to find that successful program to meet 
these ever-changing needs. He, too, stated 
that communication with other businesses
AIESEC dinner, March 11. Seated at head table (I. to r.) Jeff Hodges, Director of Marketing, national 
AIESEC committee; Judy Vetter, Convention Chairperson, James G. Lee, President Gulf Oil Corpora
tion and Glen Raiger, President, AIESECCMU.
is the best way to learn about the changing 
market. Mr. Gadjeff claimed that there are 
different ways of doing business. The exec
utive added that you must be able to sell 
yourself and have the capabiltiy to com
municate with people. When asked if pro
duct demand would decrease in the United 
States due to the substantial increase in in
dustry facilities and wealth in world mar
kets, Mr. Gadjeff felt that there will always 
be a need for international business be
cause of the great number of underdevel
oped countries. Thus AIESEC provides op
portunity for learning about the business 
world by simply being involved in the or
ganization itself: the marketing aspects of
AIESEC were similar to those presented by 
the three businessmen.
A wine and cheese reception and semiformal dinner for the speakers followed 
with guest speaker, James Lee, President of 
Gulf Oil Corporation. The President felt 
that there is a general need for greater un
derstanding of the business community. 
His proposed solution to this problem is 
that universities should not only com
municate world problems with students 
but strengthen their communication with 
the business world and that students should 
do their job as completely and conscien
tiously as possible. Mr. Lee states that his 
major challenge today is to convince the
AIESEC participants from other universities at Saturday luncheon.
government that the private enterprise sys
tem in the United States can still work and 
should be able to set their own prices. 
When asked if solar energy is a feasible al
ternative, the president felt it was not a 
solution for solving all problems.
The regional concluded with speakers 
Thomas M. Kerr, former head of the 
Department of Administration and Man
agement Science at Camegie-Mellon and 
Jack Harbaugh, Executive Vice President 
of Trading and Transportation of Gulf Oil. 
Professor Kerrs topic was Restrictive 
Trade Practices and Regulations Affecting 
International Business, with Examples. 
Mr. Harbaugh spoke on Gulf Oils theory 
on unifying the relationships of multi
national corporations. The proposal en
tailed establishing a tri-lateral relation
ship between a developing host country, 
one or more international oil companies 
and an international financial consortium. 
The international oil companies can pro
vide the necessary commercial and tech
nical skills to find and develop energy re
sources, the host countries can reduce 
their oil imports and strengthen their 
balance of payments; and the financial 
institutions can provide the desired as
sistance needed for trading purposes.
Over 110 students and 50 business
men attended the regional. Twelve schools 
were represented. Spring Regional sponsors 
were: U.S. Steel Foundation, Gulf Oil 
Foundation, Alcoa Foundation, H.J. Heinz 
Foundation, Rockwell International, 
Dravo, Koppers, Fortune National. 
Camegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh 
National Bank, Teledyne-ColumbiaSummeill, and International Business Forum, 
Inc. The organization that was needed to 
pull the regional together was excellent. 
Chairperson, Judy Vetter commented, 
The regional went really well. Organiz
ing the regional was a challenging ex
perience and I learned a lot about my
self, the process of running a convention 
and working with many people. President 
of AIESEC-CMU, Glen Raiger added, 
The primary objective of AIESEC is to 
promote the interaction between business 
academic student leaders. Our spring re
gional convention fulfilled this objective 
in a professional first-class manner.
AIESEC has close to 400 chapters in 55 
countries. It is a multinational corporation 
that is entirely run by college students who 
are interested in pursuing management ca* reers. Although it is only two years old, the 
Carnegie-Mellon chapter is one of the most 
active within AIESEC. This summer, 9 
students from CMU will be traveling to 
foreign countries as part of AIESECs con
tinuing effort to complement a students 
theoretical training with practical business 
experience.
9*8)Kficto mi 
a fete Hi
OF*

---------------------------------------------------

MARCH 21 / VOLUME II / ISSUE 7THE END OF THE CREATION

---------------------------------------------------

page 16TARTANMarch 21, 1978
THE END
by Mory Brenner
No one who came in close contact with him 
ever knew it. Not even his brother Noel, whom 
Earl had promoted to vice president of his con
glomerate upon Noel's graduation from Duke 
University in a blatant show of nepotism, ever 
suspected. It was only Earl Louis Dorado him
self who realized that not only was he mentally 
disturbed, but that he was actually on the verge 
of collapse.
Earl had known for a long time that there was 
a problem, but never quite understood what it 
was, or why it was there. He remembered having 
the feeling for the first time when his mother had 
brought home his baby brother. Although he did 
not realize it at the time, it seemed to him now 
that from the first day that hir, brother Noel 
Augustus Dorado was brought into the world, he 
had been miserable. Earl had gotten to be very 
good at covering it up over the years. Until now, 
at the age of thirty-five, and a self made million
aire through his technological inventions, it was. 
impossible to detect Earl's trauma.
TARTAN FOUO
MARCH 21 / VOLUME II / ISSUE 7 :
THE END OF THE CREATION
EDITOR: K.A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ARTDIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: MORY BRENNER
ANDY EPSTEIN
COVER DESIGN: ANDY EPSTEIN
OF THE CREATION
Earl's childhood had been an odd one. His 
parents were usually away on some type of 
trip, leaving Earl in charge. His younger brother 
never pestered or tormented him. In fact, Noel
seemed to try to stay quite distant from him.
Noel appeared to be in constant fear of Earl,
although Earl never hit him or seldom even
threatened him, as most older brothers do at that 
age. Earl had found it impossible to hurt his 
brother. Whenever an occasion did arrive, even if 
Noel was deserving, Earl could not bring himself 
to hit him. There were many times when Earl had 
gotten to the point of raising his hand to Noel, 
only to have it freeze in mid-air until it dropped 
harmlessly to his side. Even on the rare situations 
when Noel had gathered up the courage to strike 
his older brother, Earl accepted the blows with 
an almost masochistic pleasure. Earl loved his 
brother, but at the same time, hi hated him, 
because he knew that somehow Noel was the 
cause of all of his problems.
In order to avoid any kind of controversy 
which might affect his business, Earl had not been 
seeing any of the local psychiatrists, but instead 
had been flying his private jet to London and 
Vienna to receive the finest help in seclusion.
Even though he would only see doctors who held 
the same political and philosophical beliefs as 
himself, he still received some of the finest help 
available from doctors such as Dr. Bernard Leeal, 
Dr. Armand S. Modeus, and Dr. Maynard Fistles. 
Earl had been receiving treatment for the past five 
years to no avail. None of the psychiatrists, their 
treatments, advice, hypotheses, or various drugs 
had helped him at all. He had tried speaking to 
several priests and ministers also, but their help 
was just as useless as the rest he had received.
Earl was beginning to give up hope, and in a 
state of desperation when he found a peculiar ad 
in the Wall Street Journal.
EXECUTIVES  Computer psychoanalysis 
satisfaction guaranteed, information kept 
completely confidential. Call (397) 374-3623 
At that point Earl was willing to try anything, 
and called the number for information. He got 
what sounded like a recording explaining that the 
cost of one session would be $10,000, but re
minding him that his satisfaction was guaranteed.
The mechanical voice then stopped briefly, and 
Earl guessed that the tape was over, only to have 
the voice ask him if he had any additional ques
tions. Earl felt rather odd speaking to what he 
had thought was a recording but replied, "no", 
when to his astonishment the voice asked him if 
he were interested. It was only at this point that 
Earl realized that the voice was not a recording at 
all. He answered, "yes" almost out of curiosity. It 
then asked him for a major credit card number 
and told him that this was the only method of 
payment; Earl gave him his Master Charge num
ber, to which the voice replied, "I will now check 
your credit." Earl thought that this would take 
the usual amount of time, and would be cleared 
up another day, although there was no doubt in 
his mind that he would meet their standards. But 
instead of a wait the voice responded in a matter 
of seconds, by saying, "Your credit is fine; you 
will have $4,277,463.77 left in your estate after 
your treatment."
Earl sat speechless at this statement, because 
the number which he had just been given by the 
voice was exactly $10,000 less then his estate had 
been appraised at only yesterday. Yet only two 
people in the world knew of the exact amount, or 
so he thought. He was then asked once again if he
COMING IN THE APRIL 11 FOLIO: "R & R 
at CMU, or Spare Time at Tech." Submit your 
typed copy and/or artwork by April 4 to share 
your favorite pastimes with the student body. 
After all, what better way to relax than to sit in 
Schenley Park with a good friend, a cold Coke, 
and FOLIO?
natrat...its coming

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978-TAR TAN-page 17
__________________ft 
wanted the treatment. Earl agreed, and was told 
that he would find the money missing from his 
account, and was welcome to one session. He was 
then given an address, and told that he would be 
given further instructions upon his arrival. Earl 
thanked the voice, and said that he would be 
there in the near future.
Normally Earl would have done more investiga
ting before committing himself, but besides being 
desperate, his curiosity had been aroused by the 
strange mechanical voice. He decided that he 
would go the following day, since it would be a 
rather long drive for him, even in his imported 
sports car.
As he walked out of the building that evening 
he turned and admired the company marquee 
which hung over the main doors. The company 
meant more to him than anything else. He had 
started it as soon as he had finished high school, it 
was his own creation. Even though the had been 
offered the same scholarship as his brother, he 
chose to forgo college. His inventions worked, 
and were well accepted, until by the time Noel 
recieved his B.S. from Duke, Earl had become a 
millionare. Noel could have gone to work for Earl 
sooner, but felt that his eduction was more im
portant in the long run if he wanted to do what 
was necessary for the company, while the most 
important thing to Earl was starting his company, 
and becoming rich as fast as he could.
Earl arrived at the location he was given early 
the next morning. He entered the room as he was 
told over the phone, and then waited for the fur
ther instructions he was told that he would recieve. The room was large and empty. With its 
walls ail painted white, Earl felt very uncomfort
able and began to tremble. He heard a typewriter 
and turned around to see where the noise was 
coming from. He then noticed that there was a 
computer terminal and a set of headphones on 
one side of the room, and that the terminal had 
written him a message. Earl had been working 
with computers since he was very young, and al
though familiar with the terminal, was quite scar
ed. The computer had asked him once again to
confirm his charge number, and Earl typed it 
into the terminal. He felt it odd that the room 
was empty except for him and the terminal, but 
he continued on as instructed anyway. He was 
then told to put on the headphones. Earl noticed 
that the several electrodes on the headphones 
would come in contact with his scalp if he put 
them on, but he put them on none the less, and 
waited for further instructions. Music came into 
the earpieces, and not being bothered by the electodes, Earl relaxed and enjoyed the music. He 
felt that the room must have been some kind of a 
waiting area, and that the person who was in 
charge would be appearing shortly. Then after five
minutes of music, Earl was told that the first part 
of the treatment was over, and that he should go 
back to his office, where he would be called with 
the results. At that point Earl was very skeptical, 
but once again he felt compelled to do as he was 
told to by the computer. He drove back to his of
fice, and proceeded with his work as usual.
Later in the afternoon, a call was received by 
Earl's secretary, but when the man demanded to 
speak only to Earl and would not give his name to 
her she refused to let the call through. She fought 
with him for 10 minutes until she finally gave in 
and conceded to let Earl have the call. The con
versation went like this.
"Hello," Earl said.
"Hello," replied the voice. "This is Earl Louis 
Dorado."
"No,no," answered Earl. This is Earl Louis 
Dorado."
"Yes, I know," the voice responded, "This 
too is Earl Louis Dorado." Earl was not only 
confused by this but also scared. The voice 
sounded exactly like his own. It was a perfect 
imitation.
"How did you get this number?" Earl de
manded of the voice.
"I know everything about you," the voice 
announced. "I know everything that has ever 
happened to you. I know what you are think
ing, and what you are not thinking. I know what 
you remember, and what you have chosen to for
get. I am Earl Louis Dorado, the present life, and 
the past lives. I am what is in your mind, Earl 
Louis Dorado, your conscious and your uncon
scious mind. There is nothing about you which I 
don't know." Earl was shocked, and listened to 
try to understand what was happening to him. 
"You have paid ten thousand dollars to speak to 
me for one hour, Earl Louis Dorado: use your 
time wisely!" Suddenly it ail made sense to Earl. 
He was really speaking to himself, as he had done 
so many times before. On several occasions he 
had tried to reach deep into his unconscious mind 
to find the answers to his problems, and now he 
had that opportunity. He did not know how they 
had gotten his mind, or how they had imitated his

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTANMarch 21, 1978
voice, but he was ready to ask this voice all of the 
questions that he had been asking himself for 
years without any answers. He started out with 
some basic questions which he already knew the 
answers to, to make sure that the entire thing was 
not a farce. Then when these questions had been 
answered correctly, with amazing precision, 
Earl asked the question which had ruined his life.
Why do I feel such anxiety towards my bro
ther?"
The voice paused briefly, and then began to 
explain to Earl the answer to his lifelong problem. 
"Your trauma did not start in this lifetime," the 
voice began, "but centuries ago, in a lifetime long 
before the one you are familiar with now." Earl 
was spellbound, and continued to listen. "In your 
past life you were not as well off as you are 
now," the voice continued. "In fact you were a 
mere factory worker, as was your brother. You 
slaved many hours under inhuman conditions 
during the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, 
the period in which the age of technology got its 
birth and without which you would not be what 
you are today. You loved your brother, but at 
the same time he was your competition. Then one 
day there was a new machine brought into the 
factory. There had been a rumor which had been 
running through the factory for many years, but 
no one thought that the new machine was any
thing more than a dream. They began to bring it 
piece by piece, and put one piece upon another, 
bringing in, and building more and more until it 
was too big for the room it was designed to be 
put in. Yet it remained there, and the construc
tion went on until it could be built no more, and 
it was ready to do its job. They sent both you 
and your brother down to learn how to run it, 
even though only one of you would get the new 
job, which paid more, with less work. You 
learned the job quickly, and were toying with 
your brother because he could not. Then in what 
seemed like an accident, you pushed your brother 
into the new machine, and watched as he was 
ground to death in the heavy steel cogs. Yes, it 
seemed like an accident, and was reported as one, 
but in the back of your mind it had all been care
fully planned out. You had meant to push your 
brother into that machine. You were a murderer, 
Earl Louis Dorado, and to this day you feel the 
guilt for what you did to your brother." Earl 
sat motionless. It all seemed so familiar, familiar 
enough for it to be true. Yet Earl refused to be
lieve it. "No!" he shouted back into the phone, 
"that's not true. I never did that." The voice 
paused momentarily to review what it had said 
and assure itself that it was correct. As always 
there was no mistake, and it responded according
ly. Earl was hysterical, and demanded to know 
who had given him this information and number, 
and had him call.
"It was you," retorted the voice. "It was you, 
Earl Louis Dorado, yet you refuse to admit it 
even now, just as you refused to admit to your 
brother's murder in your past lifetime, and to the 
crimes you have committed in this lifetime."
'That's not true!" Earl screamed.
"You may not lie to me Earl Louis Dorado," - 
the voice retorted. "Lies are quickly devoured by
virtue for only the truth may exist between us. 
Just as you killed your brother in the last world, 
you are supressing and killing him in this world. 
That is your crime in this world, and the cause of 
your torment."
Earl was incapable of giving a response. He had 
been broken down, and sat crying at his desk, half 
out of anguish and guilt, and half out of relief. It 
was all clear to him; he now knew why he had felt 
the way he had for so long. He understood his 
evils and decided to remedy the situation. He 
thanked the voice, and commented that he was 
contented with his treatment at that point, and 
would need it no longer. The voice then hung up, 
and Earl called in his secretary. He instructed her 
that he was closing down the factory, and that he 
was dividing up the assets between himself, his 
brother, and all of the workers who would be 
rendered unemployed, including herself. Earl then 
walked out of the factory without even glancing 
at the marquee, and drove off to his home in the 
country where he lived out the rest of his life in 
seclusion, and for the first tim, happiness.
There was a call at the cancer research center. 
The receptionist answered the phone as usual.
"Who was it?" inquired the head researcher.
"That man with the mechanical voice again," 
she replied.
"Did he give another ten thousand dollars?" 
he asked.
"Yes," she responded, "and he gave it with the 
same dedication as always, too. 'To my creators, 
may they not die in vain.' "
^UlMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlltllllllllllltllllllllllllllllHIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIttKI
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg. 
his helper.
Dummy", counters Blech. If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
mmwmm
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)10.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
PERMANENTS
25.00
No
AppointmentsUNISEX HAIR SALON
lHlllllltlllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllMllltlllllllllllllHIIIIKIItllllMIIIIIIIHHIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlf^
ARM AND HAMMER QUESTIONNAIRE
(FOR THE TARTAN)
LOCATION:
TIME: Weekday - Weeknight - Weekend 
APPROXIMATE AGE: 16-25 26-35 36-50 51-65 over 65 
SEX: MF
INTRODUCTION
1.) Do you buy baking soda?
Yes No
2.) What Is the brand name?
3.) What ara tha uses of baking soda?
brush teeth bath pool I don t know
air freshener ontocid bake
other
4.) What do you use it for?
5.) Do you purchase A 4 H Baking Soda?
hardly ever quite often occasionally
6.) Hava you over seen an A l> M advertisement on ...
magazine TV Radio Newspoper Billboard Store Oisploy Coupons
7.) Did you know that AAH makes other products?
Yes No
B.) What are those products?
*.) Which do you buy?
10.) What were your reasons for buying them?
Cheap Naturol A&H Imoge Sale Coupon Only one available It was on the list
11.) Do you have the same opinion of A&H other products as of AAH baking soda?
Yes No
12.) If no, why not?
13.) How would you recognise other AAH products?
(packaging) (logo) (colors)
14.) When you see the arm and hammer trademark (logo) what do you think of?
tradition stobility
CONTEST QUESTION
Can you think of a new way fo use baking soda?
Win two tickets to the Spring Carnival Concertl
NAME:' _________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS. ______________________________________________________________________
TEL. NUMBER: __________________________________________________________________
Please drop in confect boxes in Baker Hall and Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Ginger reminisces
by Joan Livitski
Well, I got to see her, one of my all-time 
idols, Ginger Rogers. Considering her sixtysix years, she was well preserved, but it 
wasnt all I had hoped for even though I 
wouldnt have missed it for the world.
Myron Cohen billed as Americas fore
most storyteller, opened the show with his 
act of comic stories and amusing anecdotes. 
At a time when crudeness and pornography 
blatantly overrides much of the entertain
ment industry, its a joy to watch a wellseasoned, balding, loveable man who can 
still incorporate marriage, nationality and 
sexual jokes into his act, yet keep it all in
good taste.
True, many of his jokes have been cock
tail partied, conventioned or supper clubbed 
to death, but with Mr. Cohen, its in the 
delivery that he hooks the audience. His 
well controled facial gestures and hand 
movements are reminicent of Jack Bennys 
style. Using a floor mike, his position was a 
trifle too stationary, but then maybe he 
wanted to create a greater contrast for Ms. 
Rogers.
The highspot of his act centered around 
his use of dialects which ranged in use from 
two old Yiddish women talking to an in
dignant Italian telling someone off.
The only real bothersome aspect of the 
show was in its hard sell tone. Mr. Cohen 
was overly gracious to the audience, espec
ially the middle aged women, reaching the 
point where he came across like Father 
Knows Best or the reverend at a nearby 
church. Impossible to develop a dislike for 
this benevolent man, his attitude did start 
to get a bit too saccarine for my taste. Ms. 
Rogers over zealous drive to get the aud
ience enthused, came across as a Calvacade 
of Hits where a round of applause was ex
pected at the drop of a song, show title or 
name.
Granted, it was the premiere perform
ance of Gingers show, An Evening to Re
member, so I can understand some uneasi
ness. But giving ones best is one thing, 
pushing an audience into acceptance is 
another. Rather than have her relive her 
life from a teenage Charleston contest 
winner through her Broadway career, then 
films and back to theatre, Id have liked to 
have seen her relaxed and at ease, perform
ing some song and dance numbers (new as 
well as old) and letting us see her as she is 
now-still a beautiful and graceful dancer, 
even if her steps werent as flamboyant as 
when she danced with Fred.
The incorporation of Film clips and 
slides was a nostalgic touch that also gave 
Ginger time to change costumes (each one 
progressively more lovely), but the chrono
logical story, running the length of the 
show, got to be a bit too concerned with 
facts and getting everything in the right 
order. I started to wonder if there would 
be a quiz at the end.
Not as noted for her voice in her early 
career, Ms. Rogers revue surprisingly 
used song as its main substance. It was re
freshing to have that newness. Her First 
selections were from her first Broadway
show, Girl Crazy, including her hit But 
Not For Me. She continued with such noteables as her pig Latin version of Were In 
The Money she kiddingly said made her 
famous. Then came the Gershwin songs 
and Did You Ever See A Dream Walkin 
which she pulled from a reject pile.
Comedy is filtered in even if some of it 
comes across like Dolly Parton doing a 
cheesecake act. One of the lighter sections 
that gets past the trite stage is a slide 
show of some of her more impressive lead
ing men. The series ends with a picture of a 
baboon to which Ginger comments, Hes 
for monkey business.
In addition to her musical and dance 
abilities, we are reminded of Ms. Rogers 
dramatic ability. A very touching film clip 
of her role as Kitty Foyle is shown. It was 
for this role that she was awarded an osear.
Her dance partner, Larry Merritt, comes 
out and does some impressive tango moves 
to Change Partners. Regretfully though, Ms. 
Rogers is off stage making another costume 
change.
Called back by a standing ovation, Ginger 
is overwhelmed by what she looked upon 
as a wonderful gift. As she put it, You 
cant buy it at Tiffanys! This thought fit 
well with what she announced as her favor
ite song, They Cant Take That Away From 
Me.
Upon leaving the theatre, one statement 
by Ms. Rogers, in particular, stuck with 
me: Those of you whove never heard 
any of these songs, kiddies, youre gonna 
hear some real music. Well, I had heard 
them all before, but she was right anyway. 
I heard some real music, some really ex
cellent music, not to mention seeing some 
mighty fine dancing, gorgeous costumes, 
touching films, memorable slides, a star, 
and mostly, one hell of a lady.
S 'n' S draws on experience
by David Sheward
Scotch n Soda, Carnegie-Mellons ama
teur theatre organization will present the 
musical Woodwind on April 6, 7, 8, 13,14 
and 15. The book is by John Grefenstette 
and Mark Yochum, lyrics by John Grefen
stette and music by Bruce Murray and 
John Grefenstette. The show, a rock mu
sical based on the legend of Robin Hood, 
was first presented here at CMU by Scotch 
n Soda in the fall of 1973; it sold out all 
performances.
The current production is directed by 
Monty Karp. The cast includes Gerry 
Dieffenbach as Robin, Terry Santry as 
Maid Marion, Bill Tinsley as King Richard, 
John Pozniak as the Sherriff of Notting
ham, Gina Carlow as Allan a Dale, Scott 
Ashworth as Little John and Scotch n* Soda 
President, Matt Sweigart, as Friar Tuck.
Tickets are two dollars for students 
and three dollars for non-students for the 
first weekend and two fifty for students, 
three fifty for non-students for the se
cond weekend. Tickets can be purchased at
sole purpose was to present an original 
musical during Spring Carnival week. One 
of their more memorable shows, All In A 
Dormitory, was presented in 1908. White 
Friars continued until 1913.
In 1932 a new group called the Bacch
analians was formed. In 1938 the official 
name was changed to the Scotch n Soda
Skibo Information Desk or in Baker Hal! 
Lobby. Discounts of four dollars are avail
able for every group of ten.
Scotch n' Soda is dedicated to the 
production of original scripts and scores,* 
according to President Sweigart. CMU has 
had such an organization, off and on, for 
over seventy years.
The first such group, known as the 
White Friars, was formed in 1907. Their
Club. The newly-named organizations 
first production was eniiilod No Strings 
(not to be confused with Richard Rodgers 
1961 Broadway musical of the same name). 
The group was inactive during World War
II, but returned in 1947 with Rock n 
Riot, the groups best production up to that
time.
In 1950, S n S moved from their tra
ditional stage in the Carnegie Music Hall to 
the CMU gym. They remained there until 
1960 when Skibo was built. All S n S 
musical productions have been in Skibo 
Ballroom ever since.
Several students who participated in 
Scotch and Soda went on to successful 
careers in show business. Alex Segal, who 
wrote, directed, and did the lyrics for One 
on the House, later became a television 
director. Jaye Gordon who had the lead in 
1940*s Molecule Man made several appear
ances on the 1950s drama anthology. Stu
dio One. Mitzi Cottle, lead actress and 
writer for 1953s the Works, sang
with Benny Goodmans band. Michael
Simon who wrote the music for Amphityron 
is now a student of Broadway composerlyricist Stephen Sondheim. Impressionistactor Frank Gorshin once wrote an S n S 
show. David Spangler, who wrote and di
rected Twice Upon a Time, and Stephen 
Feckter, who wrote Lord Have Mercy, now 
work as producers in New York. Marty 
Goet?, who wrote and played the lead in 
Of The Valley, is currently touring night
clubs singing his own songs. Mitch Weisman, star of the Broadway hit Beatlemania, 
played the role of Robin Hood in the orig
inal production of Woodwind.
Scotch n Soda shows also provided hit 
plays. The Scotch n Soda production 
Pippin provided CMU alumnus Stephen 
Schwartz with the basis for his Broadway 
smash of the same name.
Scotch n Soda is governed by a Board 
consisting of a President, Vice-President, 
Publicity Manager, Business Manager and 
Secretary. Elections for these positions are 
held every spring.
This year the old and new board will 
consider musical and non-musical scripts 
submitted by April twenty-second for 
production next year. An innovation will 
be introduced this year. The board will
in the spring. The second choice will pos
sibly be produced in the fall of 78 or the 
spring of 1980.
This new policy was prompted by last 
years selection process. One musical was 
chosen for production this spring, but be
cause of copyright problems, this proved 
impossible. Left with no musical the board 
dipped into Scotch n Sodas past and 
came up with Woodwind. With a choice of 
two shows, problems such as the one en
countered during the selection of this years 
musical, can be avoided. A director will 
also be chosen in advance.
Another innovation in policy will be 
the boards methods of reviewing non
musical scripts. President Sweigart hopes to 
expand S n* Ss production of non-musical
chose two musicals to be worked on over 
the summer. In the fall the progress of 
both scripts will be checked and whichever 
one has developed most will be produced
material. He sees last semesters production 
of three original one-act plays as only the 
beginning. Ideally all scripts would get a 
reading", he says.
As for the present production, Director 
Monty Karp is enthusiastic and certain that 
this second production will repeat the suc
cess of the original. Tb publicize the show, 
members of the cast and crew have answered 
telephones for WQED during their recent 
pledge drive, painted the fence and will 
wear their Woodwind T-shirts.
Photograph by Morrow

---------------------------------------------------

Black Week
Ruby Dee
by Danni Smith
She dressed with a touch of India, spoke 
with an alluring voice that radiated the 
words on her convincing smile. Im here 
because words are what Im all about, 
commenced Ms. Dee.
Despite the grossly low climate and small 
audience in Skibo Ballroom last Monday, 
Ruby Dee, one of the first black women to 
cross the color line in the performing 
arts field, stressed black unity during her 
poetry reading. Selections included Madam, 
by Langston Hughes, My House, by Nikki 
Giovanni, Benediction, by Bob Kaufman, 
Beneath the Poet Tree, by Gordon Nelson,
Fashion
by Joan Livitski
I've never seen the ballroom look so 
nice, was my initial impression. As if 
I had stepped out of a taxi at Sardfs,
1 suddenly felt like I had entered the 
jet-paced life of the metropolitan world. 
In reality, it was merely Skibo Ballroom, 
dressed for the dinner/disco and fashion 
show of Black Week.
Somewhere in the neighborhood of 175 
people were served dinner, not without 
a good deal of delay. The amazing thing 
was that everyone^ save for food services 
waitresses who were kept bustlin' about),
stayed cool and calm. Realizing there 
was nothing complaining would do, people 
utilized the time for socializing.
It was one night when work, pressures, 
and CMU did not exist. All right, there 
were some exchanges of what peoples
How I Got Over: Poems for Some Black 
Women, For Some Women, by Carolyn 
Rogers, one of Ms. Dees favorites, and 
Rosa Guys Children of Longing.
Ms. Dee said that African literature is 
very meaningful but has been lost unlike 
our European counterparts, the African 
people did not write down stories. This is 
why we owe a great deal to the African 
story-teller, the griot. Ms. Dee credited 
the Harlem Renaissance poets such as 
Phyllis Wheatley, Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen and Claude McKay, although 
she said he (Claude McKay), feeds me 
breads of bitterness talking about America?
Ms. Ruby Dee was born in Cleveland, 
raised in Harlem and attended undergrad
uate school at Hunter College in New York. 
In 1942, she appeared in South Pacific 
with Canada Lee and in 1962 she and her 
husband, Ossie Davis, starred in the play 
Purlie Victorious, written by Davis himself. 
She also starred in Lorraine Hansberrys 
award-winning play, Raisin in the Sun, with 
Sidney Poitier. Ms. Dee appeared in the 
Delta Sigma Theta, Inc. production, Count
down at Kusini, filmed in Nigeria. Ms. Dee 
called the movie a daring venture by a 
group of bold and beautiful women. An 
honorary member of Delta Sigma Theta, 
Inc., Ms. Dee is in the final stages of com
pleting her play, Take It From The Top.
Greek Sing
by Barney Wilson
An estimated number of 600 people 
were on hand Thursday night for the Black 
Week Poetry Forum and Greek Sing. The 
evening commenced at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room with a poetry reading.
Show
majors were, but habits die hard.
Not only did the tie-up in the kitchen 
set back the supper hour, it also caused the 
fashion show to be postponed nearly an 
hour. Once underway, the show went 
quite smoothly, save for the near collapse 
of a flat and the long pause before the final 
segment of the show.
It was nearly impossible to hear the 
M.C.s descriptions due to a poor sound 
system, loud music and overpowering 
voices from the audience. The crowd 
seemed more interested in who was on. 
stage rather than the garments, pretty 
ironic for a fashion show.
As a whole, the students-turned-models 
came across as serious and rather profes
sional, playing up to the crowd at every 
given opportunity. Even the way the show 
started supported this. * First we had 
girls clad in swimsuits that were bare-ly
Carnegie Mellon's Danielle Smith was the 
Mistress of Ceremonies. Her invocation to 
Black Week was followed bv readings trom 
CMUs Upward Bound students, Bonnie 
Brown, Kelly King, Dina Stevenson, and 
Shelley Evans. Duquesne University poets 
included Judy Richardson, Donna Washing
ton, Jackie McAbee. and Everett Davis. 
Stephanie Kidd read from Chatham Col
lege, Tim Mitchell from CMUs SUPA Program and Danni Smith ended the Forum 
with her superb poetry recitations.
Following the Poetry Forum, the partici
pants and audience moved from the Wher
rett Room to Skibo Ballroom to enjoy the 
Greek Sing. Among the fraternities and 
sororities that performed were Alpha Kap
pa Alpha Sorority, Inc. (AKA), Alpha Sig
ma, City Chapter, Sigma Gamma Rho Sor
ority, Inc., Alumnae Chapter, Alpha Phi 
Alpha Fraternity, Inc., Omicron, City 
Chapter. Sigma Souls, (Sweethearts of Phi 
Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.,) Epsilon Kap
pa Chapter, and the Alpha Angels, (Sweet
hearts of A Phi A.)
Carnegie-Mellons vDarryl Greshman, 
Master of Cerimonies, Candi Sheffield and 
two Duquesne University affiliates judged 
the competition and awarded the Alpha 
Angels first place winners of the event.
The CMU Black Week Committee coor
dinated the Poetry Forum and Greek Sing 
in conjunction with Duquesnes BlackWeek 
Committee. Both committees were pleased 
with the success of this event.
Poetry Readings ,
by John Morris
As part of CMU's Black Week activities, 
a poetry reading was given on Thursday, 
March 16. Perhaps the event suffered in my 
eyes by comparison to the electricity and 
professionalism of Ruby Dees poetic inter
pretations on the previous Monday, but 
this reading seemed to be more rhetoric ^ 
and declamation than poetry.
The program, which included works by 
CMU and Duquesne students, was warmed 
up by readings of Paul Laurence Dunbar, 
Langston Hughes, and others, by C-Map 
students Dina Stevens, Bonnie Brown, Kelly 
King, and Shelly Evans. Next Everett Davis 
of Duquesne read three poems of his own 
characterized by cliches and superficial 
observations designed to please the aud
ience rather than communicate a personal 
poetic vision.
The evenings standout was Judy Rich
ardson of Duquesne. Her poems, which in
cluded Thinking Poem, Ode To a Would 
Be Lover, Evil Set, Mississippi, and Have 
You Seen My Rainbow? demonstrated in
tense sensitivity and a maturity and confid
ence in the poetic Torm. The device of using 
a womans offhand observations while 
preparing herself before a mirror and pon
dering the value of emerging into the out
side world in Thinking Poem was effective, 
and her depiction of the games lovers play
continued on next page
there, naturally getting an enthusiastic 
response from the gents in the audience.
But surprisingly enough, the realhoots 
and whistles came from the women, 
especially when one denim clad male took 
one tug at his jacket zipper to expose a 
bare chest-the girls on stage just couldnt 
compete.
The Models all had very pulled together 
looks, undoubtedly aided by hairstylists, 
make-up consultants and fashion 
co-ordinators. But how many students 
have the time, budget, and know-how to 
pull those same looks off (without even 
considering the panache)? In fact, the 
whole air about'the show was very cosmo
politan, right off the pages of Essense and 
Ebony.
There was an impracticality involved 
in many of the garments, but they suc
ceeded in providing a fanciful escape.
Though a wide variety of clothes were 
shown, encompassing every occasion, I 
doubt if there were clothes for every 
pocket book.

---------------------------------------------------

Photographs by Ramanan, Brazelton and Morrow
The U.A.M.C. Gospel Choir gives their rendition of We Are Climbing.
and late night hours.
To close the first half of the show, 
sophomore Cheryl Goodman delivered a 
moving rendition of the Theme from Roots 
as a tribute to the past entertainers. Ac
companied by the Black Excellence Band, 
the piece brought the show down pensively 
and gracefully. '
The second half started off with a bang 
as the Mike Hanna Quartet became a street 
comer symphony. The four young men 
harmonized and do-wopped their way 
through Up On The Roof and Drip Drop. 
Changing the mood to a more mellow one, 
Bruce McGee returned to sing an old Jonny Mathis tune but the mood didnt last. 
Next to be celebrated was the disco dancer 
with Jam, Point Park Dancers and the Uto
pian Dancers, the audience was ready to 
get down right along with them. One of the 
audiences favorites, Jam had a little tech
nical trouble at first but roboted, mimed 
and Lockered their way right through it.
In celebration of funk, the group Still 
Life played Joyous. Leonard Hub Hub
bards bass solo got almost the entire audi
ence screaming and on their feet.
The most emotional and climactic sec
tion of the show came in the celebration of 
Black theatre. After a performance of Ease 
on Down the Road from The Wiz, drama 
students Gail Grate and Margaret McGrady 
did scenes from Sister Sonji and For Col
ored Girls Who Considered Suicide When 
The Rainbow is Enuf respectively. Both 
were quite emotional in effect, deep in 
scope and simply excellent in performance.
This years talent show, although a cele
bration of Black excellence, was a produc
tion of pride. It was conceived to instill 
knowledge, pride, and motivation in every
one-knowledge of the past, pride in it and 
the present it has created and motivation in 
the future that is everyones.
The directors of the program were: Bus
ter Alston (music), J.J. Cole (dance), Aud
rey Sykes (singing), Margaret McGrady 
(drama), and Dan Anderson, technical and 
lighting director. Cheryl Goodman served 
as the Publicity chariperson and Bridget 
Nash as the Secretary.The Black Excellence Band pays tribute to Charlie Parker with Mr. Magic.
rTalent Show
by G.T. Goodman and Danni Smith
A Celebration of Black Excellence, this 
years talent showcase for Spirits annual 
Black Week, was conceived by a hard work
ing committee of eight and written and di
rected by first year drama student James 
^ Pringle. Black music-gospel, jazz, blues; 
Black dancemodem and disco; and Black 
theatermusical and dramatic, were all ar
eas for celebration for the large and recep
tive crowd that filled the Skibo ballroom 
last Friday evening.
Students of CMU and the surrounding 
communities displayed their hidden talents 
ranging from singing to dramatic dissertations. With creativity and aptitude evident 
r' in every act, the crowd showed its approval 
and support through constant rousing ap
plause and its undivided attention.
The U.A.M.C. Choir from Oaklanc 
started the show with two gospel selec
tions, followed by two separate acts using 
the choir as a back-up. James Patterson and 
Heavens Voice (Paula Croom, Pat Adams, 
and Garbie Dukes), along with the Baptist 
minister sounding introductions provided 
by the M.C., Pringle, combined to give the 
start of the show that ole time religious 
flavor.
Moving from gospel to jazz, Anthony 
McElroy, a freshman in drama, Bruce Mc
Gee, a CMU alumnus, and James Buster 
Alston, a senior music major got the cele
bration churning with saxaphone selections 
and saxaphonists tributes. In one such 
tribute, to Charlie Parker, Alston gave a 
performance of the tune Mr. Magic which 
assured the entire audience that Alston de
finitely has a promising future ahead of 
him in the music world. To tell about the 
blues, freshman Garbie Dukes performed 
an original tune of his plight here at CMU 
entitled CMU Blues. In the style of B.B. 
King, Dukes had the audience identifying 
with his problems of calculus homework
1 Poetry Readings
continued from previous page
in Ode To a Would Be Lover was revela
tion.
Next Tim Mitchell of CMU read works 
ot Gwendolyn Bennett and other early 
twentieth century black women poets. Al| though 1 was sitting near the front, most of 
the reading was inaudible.
???????????? 
Looking back:
Black Week
by Joan Livitski
Lift Ev'ry Voice creates beautiful music through the combined efforts of the Black Excellence Band 
and the U.A.M.C. Choir.
?????????????????????????
Donna Washington and Jackie McAbee 
of Duquesne followed. Their reading ex
emplifies my point on rhetoric as opposed 
to poetry. Though interesting enough, their 
perceptions hardly followed poetic form. 
They Told Me About Pittsburgh was some
thing I could identify with, but I felt I 
could just as easily be overhearing a conver
sation on a bus than listening to the reading 
of poetry. Likewise, the line This is what 
makes me a woman: a man. was a senti
ment which is not particularly insightful 
and could just as easily be found in the 
pages of Cosmopolitan or Essence.
Stephanie Kidd of Chatam dedicated 
her poems to a young man serving time in 
the Cleveland jail. I Am the Ghetto Child 
was marked by powerful imagery and the 
recounting of very tangible experiences.
Last to read was CMUs Dannie Smith. 
Her original works were well conceived 
and suceeded on symbolic as well as realis
tic levels. More than the other offerings, her 
work conjured a strong relationship between 
atmosphere and emotion. Ms. Smith then 
read two poems by Barbara Chase-Riboud, 
concluding on a humorous note with Dear 
Gloria Steinem.
So, this was Black Week. Truthfully 
I never would have thought Id be a part of 
it. Everybody knows Black Week is for, 
well, uh, for blacks.
Im playing devils advocate now, but 
when I really think about it, am I that far 
off? There must be a great many people 
on campus who feel this way, why else 
aren't the events more integrated?
It cant be because the events werent 
worth going to. Having attended a large 
portion of the events, I can testify to the 
excellence in at least a majority of the 
programming. Yes, problems undoubtedly 
arose, but dont they always when one 
tries to coordinate a function that deals 
with a large group of people (600 people 
at Greek Sing, 175 for dinner)?
So if it wasnt the quality of the pro
grams it must have been something else, 
right? Let me propose that its due to 
communications, or the lack thereof . 
Whether it was, in most part due to a 
personal involvement or not, I felt this 
years Black Week made more of a point 
of including the non-black population.
Were the offers to join in** sincere, 
or token gestures? Different people may 
undoubtedly feel differently, (thats what 
makes things spicy), buy I have only 
positive feelings about my experiences.
The Blackest I may ever get is from the 
TARTANs newsprint, but that didnt 
keep me from enjoying Black Week. I 
only hope Ill be invited next year. 

---------------------------------------------------

page 22TARTANMarch 21,1978
Students explore options
photography while in Italy, but I draw
by John Goodman
It takes a while for an artist to go beyond 
familiarity with the techniques of a medium 
and to begin personal exploration. This 
weeks senior show, featuring the works of 
Cynthia Ference and Linda Pancari, is a 
good example of how artists may develop 
individual approaches to fundamental artis
tic processes.
Cynthia's weavings, for example, are not 
what one might expect. I *work with a 
very loose definition of weaving, she says, 
which is basically over and under. Start
ing with that idea, I try to do other things. 
What she has come up with she alternately 
describes as metalwork, a term easier to 
understand. Pieces of stainless steel sheet 
are cut and woven with yarn into jewelry 
or other types of hanging sculpture.
In her paintings, Cynthia has more fully 
explored the possibilities of color. She had 
been working with massive and restful 
color areas, but began adding sharp, bright 
lines of color as accents. I soon realized 
that these accents gave a more interesting
focus to the paintings.
Building on this idea, Cynthias most 
recent work experiments with color inter
actions. Using bright and complimentary 
colors, and anticipating after images, she 
plans a movement of the eye through her 
work; catching it here, moving it there, 
^giving a very kinetic feel to the paintings. 
The effect Im trying for, she says, is 
to catch one instant of colors and shapes 
in motion.
Lindas imagery is more static; she has 
been concentrating for the past year on 
trees. By choosing one type of imagery 
and working it through Im able to more 
fully develop my ideas.
Her choice of trees as a subject stems 
from her year of study in Rome. It was 
amazing to me how different the trees 
were over there. The light was more white 
too, and that, as well as the quality of the 
weather, made the trees very sensual.
Linda did some sketches and a little
the trees from memory. Pm interested in 
getting the essence of the trees in my prints 
and not representing any one particular 
tree. She has been working with the in
taglio process, which she finds intriguing. 
In some ways its like drawing, but theres 
more chance involved in manipulating the 
materials on the plate. But thats what 
makes it so exciting.
The understanding of how to use these 
variables is of course necessary if the art is 
at all successful. And although she has been 
deeply involved in printmaking for only 
about a year and a half, Linda seeems to 
have achieved this understanding.
Both of the artists, in fact, have the 
experience in basic procedures which pre
pares them for taking off on personal tan
gents. The art on exhibit is a result of their 
explorations along these lines, and repre
sents their mature comprehension of the 
essential procedures of art.
PABST BREWING COMPANY
Milwaukee. Peoria Heights, Newark I os Angeles PabsJ Georgia
I ve got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my mind 

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978-TAR TAN-page 23
Ant farm won't conform
Design Review
Speaker: Chip Lord
Sponsor: CMU Design Department
by Fyrth Reckseit
Chip Lord representing Ant Farm, an 
architecture firm in San Francisco was 
guest speaker at the Design Issues Lecture 
on March 15.
The firm was founded by Chip Lord, 
Doug Michaels and Curtis Schreier. Not 
looking forward to designing industrial 
parks and apartment complexes, these part
ners sought an alternative to traditional 
ways for architects to earn a living. Origi
nating as an underground architecture 
practice, Ant Farm got its name. With 
interests expanding beyond their formal 
education in presentation media, the part
ners happened upon video production. 
Through this evolved ideas for Media 
Attractions.*
Chip Lord and his associates also wrote 
a book, a background history of the Ant 
Farm. Their publisher, suggested they re
write it focusing on only one portion, a 
chapter narrating their lifelohg intrigue 
with automobiles. This resulted in the 
book Automerica. It was this book thatrlead the CMU Department of Design to in
vite Chip Lord to speak to our audience.
With slides and a live narration based on 
Automerica, Chip Lord showed us the dev
elopment of the automobile and its impact 
-on America since World War II. The aud
ience was able to trace the paralleled 
growth of the automobile with the chang
ing lifestyles of Americans.
Chip Lord traced this evolution with 
slides of cars manufactured during the 
Dream Car Era of the 50*s. We were 
able to see the resemblance of tailfins on 
Chevrolets and Cadillacs to tailfins on 
fighterplanes. Chip Lord showed us a 
car advertisement which used a warplane 
in the background to suggest the speed and 
sleekness of the car being advertised.
Of particular interest to me were his 
observations of post-war changes that took 
place in America as our people became 
more mobile. He cited as one example, the 
Drive-In movie theater, uniquely American 
and an indication that motorists were 
spending more time in their cars. This 
indication gave rise to the Fast Food 
Phenomena, initiated by Mac Donalds, 
soon to be followed by Burger Chef, Bur
ger King, Arbys and countless others.
Another example of change was the dis
appearance of the individual roadside res
taurant, serving local specialties, such as 
chili in the West or coney islands in the 
Mid-West. These restaurants were replaced 
by standardized franchises i.e., Howard 
Johnsons and Hot Shoppes.
Chip Lord explained how post-war ex
pansion of U.S. hi-ways solicited a rising 
need for more motels. Thus, motels which 
prior to this each held unique image qual
ity and names such as Itll Do Inn, gave 
way to Holiday Inns. These he said, Re
placed a sense of adventure because the 
traveller could now be assured of the same 
quality, comfort and cleanliness at one 
Holiday Inn as he could at the next. We 
now have Ramada Inns, Howard Johnsons, 
Quality Motor Inns...
Ant Farm feels they have made a unique 
cultural contribution by creating their own 
roadside attraction, the Cadillac Ranch in 
Amarillo, Texas. A man who they liken to 
the Magic Christian commissioned them 
to buy old 50s Cadillacs, dig ten holes, 
drive the cars nose first into holes and then 
bury the cars with the rear ends each stand
ing up in the air. The passing motorist 
driving through Amarillo sees what he can 
only imagine to be a Cadillac graveyard.
In addition to sharing portions of Auto
merica with the CMU audience, the fol
lowing day at the Design Issues Seminar, 
Chip Lord screened Ant Farms video prod
uctions. One of them, Media Bum was 
live coverage of an actual Ant Farm event 
that took place in San Francisco. The 
prelude to the event was an actor por
traying John F. Kennedy delivering the 
opening address to the Media audience at 
Cow Palace in 1975. The underlying mes
sage of the Film was supposed to have been 
transmitted through the words and pre
sence of J.FJC.. Unfortunately the mes
sage was overlooked because the media 
audience at Cow Palace then, and the 
CMU audience now, was too shocked 
by the seeming tastelessness of the context 
in which the late president was presented.
I perceive Media Burn's statement to be 
that by eliminating vehicles bombarding us 
with propaganda, Americans can return to 
a lifestyle when uniqueness and individ
uality was a higher value than standardiza
tion and conformity. Perhaps Ant Farms 
next media attraction will be a Hilton 
Holocaust.
Thomas Geismar, an associate of Cher
mayeff & Geismar Associates, will be the 
Design Departments guest speaker on Wed
nesday April 5 at 8:00 PM in Science Hall 
7500. The lecture is free and open to the 
public.

C#l#
Concerts
On April 13, ABs Concert Committee 
will bring together two outstanding acts, 
Renaissance and special guest A1 DiMeola, 
for one performance at the Carnegie Music 
Hall.
This up-coming Concert will not mark a 
first time visit to CMU for at least one of 
the talents. A1 DiMeola made an appear
ance years back with Chick Coreas Return 
To Forever with which he was guitarist. 
But now hes out front, rather than playing 
back up and I dont know whos more de
serving of a place at center stage.
Growing up in New Jersey, A1 started 
playing guitar at age 8, tampering with 
classical, jazz, rock and country music. In
fluences in his early career range from Stra
vinsky and Varese, to Miles and Chick, to 
Julian Bream and Larry CoryelL
Prior to joining Chick, he was part of 
Barry Miles jazz/rock group and studying 
at Berklee School of Music in Boston. Be
fore he knew it though, he was playing to 
sold out houses at Carnegie Hall with Chick.
An unpretentious character, A1 DiMeola 
is in favor of whatever will give a unified 
sound on stage, regardless of personal egos, 
his own included. He wants nothing but 
good vibes on stage. Thats only fitting, 
considering that hes discontented in giving 
an audience anything less.
He tends to write a good deal of the 
music he performs, and what he doesn't 
write, he adds such a flourish to, that it 
becomes a reflection of him. His Latin-tlavor jazz guitar takes on a voice typical 
only unto itself when in the hands of 
DiMeola. the way in which dialogue is able 
to gain added life and voice when spoken
ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS!
The Air Force has openings (or young men and women mooring in 
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical. Aerospace. 
General and Electrical F.ngineenng Mathematics. Physics and Com 
puter Technology 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year programs of study which will defray some of your college 
costs
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your grad 
nation, youll he commissioned an officer in the Air Force Then comes 
responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the best,peo 
pie and facilities in tin' world and a mission with a purpose wyezU get 
excellent starting salarv medical and dental care 30 davs of paid va 
cation beginning your first wear, and more
l.<x)k into the Air Force ROTC program right away See what s m it 
for you See how v<hi can serve your country 111 return Youll Iv gi.id 
you put VAHir maior to work on a |ob that really coupts
Call U24-K:i97 or see us in Room 
435, ('athedral of Learning
ROTC
Gotewoy to o great way of life.
by some actors.
His music has quality and balance. 
Everything flows smoothly and is precisely 
coordinated, and yet nothing seems plan
ned. Theres a spontaneity that occurs in 
DiMeolas music that can only come 
through work, work, work. Even then, one 
must have some musical genius to start with, 
and A1 DiMeola certainly has that.
Tickets are $4.00 with I.D. and $7.00 to 
the general public. Reserved seating tickets 
for this event will go on sale Monday, April 
3rd at the Skibo Information Desk.
Coffeehouse
On Saturday, April 8, at 9:30 PM in the 
Wherrett Room, those attending the AB 
Coffeehouse are in for a very special one 
woman show. This woman is Nina Kahle.
Nina is a self-taught composer/per
former writing songs for piano, dulcimer, 
and most of all, people. She is a brilliant 
poetess who introduces to her audience 
everything from beautiful ballads to gutsy 
gin-soaked blues. Her voice is clear, power
ful, and exact, combining the range of Joni 
Mitchell or Laura Nyro, with the strength 
and gutsy sound of Linda Ronstadt. This 
is not to say that Nina is a good copy of 
some of the better female artists of our 
time, but that she is a very talented woman 
who uses these attrubutes to further en
hance her own style.
If you attend the Coffeehouse, it is safe 
to say that Nina will leave you with a warm 
glow.
Films
by Elaine Smith
When playwright Eugene ONeill wrote 
Long Days Journey Into Night, he specified 
that it never be performed until after his 
death. But due to popular demand, the AB 
Film Arts committee has decided to pre
sent it to the campus this Thursday at 6, 
8:30, and 11.
Written in the early 1940s, this auto
biographical movie examines four members 
of a family and their long days journey 
into night. The father, an aging actor, fears 
failure so much that he attempts projects 
below his artistic level. His wife is a mor
phine addict; years ago he had sent her to a 
quack who prescribed the drug as a pain 
killer. Their eldest son, Jamie, was unable 
to make it as an actor, so now he has re
treated into an 80-proof life.
Edmund is the youngest member of the 
family, but he is the only one able to under
stand what the family has become and 
what it will yet be. A twenty-three year-old 
would-be poet, he has come home from life 
at sea believing he is dying of tuberculosis.
Katherine Hepburn, Ralph Richardson, 
Jason Robards, and Dean Stockwell are 
excellent as the members of the family; 
they each won Cannes Film Festival Awards 
for Best Acting. Sidney Lunnents careful 
direction channels their talents into an 
overall outstanding film. The Saturday Re
view said of it: No one who has ever de
manded serious, mature entertainment on 
the screen can afford to miss it. . . the 
climax is a final half-hour of sustained 
intensity, the likes of which has seldom 
been seen on the screen.
The TARTAN extends its apologies to 
Delta Upsilon for the misspelling of their 
name i last weeks issue. Your fraternity 
was deserving of its recognition, and no in
tention was meant to detract.

---------------------------------------------------

page 24TARTANMarch 21/1978
Marxist sympathies override plot
A Movie Review 
Movie: 1900
Director: Bernardo Bertolucci 
by David Sheward
Bernardo Bertolucci (Last Tango in 
Paris) has with his latest film, 1900, sought 
to present us with an engrossing, long (the 
present cut is four hours long, the original 
was five hours) and dramatically satisfying 
saga of the first forty-five years in Italy. He 
failed. His greatest mistake was sacrificing 
character and story to his Communist be
liefs. Every character and almost every ac
tion in the film is meant to convey Berto
luccis fiercely felt Marxist sympathies. 
As a result most of the characters are card
board figures with lables pasted on them 
saying Brave Communist, Perverted 
Fascists or Ineffectual Member of the 
Upper Class.
As to the story, it is the kind that one 
would expect from one of the Soviet school 
systems first-grade readers. On the first 
day of the twentieth century, two boys 
are born on the same huge estate. One, 
Alfredo, is born in the big house, the 
grandson of the p^itrone (Burt Lancaster), 
and grows up to become Robert DeNiro 
and the owner of the estate. The other, 
Olmo, is born in a peasants hut, the grand
son of a peasant patriarch (Sterling Hayden), 
and grows up to become Gerard Depardieau 
and a Communist leader. The film follows 
them as they grow up together, friends in 
childhood, and drift apart as they get older, 
seperated by their differing beliefs.
Round about 1918 the appropriately 
named Fascist Atilla (Donald Sutherland) 
enters the scene. He gets a job as foreman, 
at Alfredos estate and sadistically tortures 
everyone he can get his hands on. He re
presents the growing faction of black shirted 
fascists who eventually come to power. He 
is also an example of Bertoluccis political 
excesses. He portrays all the Fascists, 
especially Atilla, as perverted monsters.
As the film progresses, the beliet mat 
the Fascists can be so cruel and twisted 
gradually slips away to be replaced by a 
feeling of disbelief. This begins when Atilla 
is collecting money for his cause. His steely 
blue eyes and satanic smile are a bit much 
to take. Atlllas later crimes which include: 
head-butting a cat to death; murdering a 
little boy; and inpaling an old woman on a 
spiked fence after he has raped her, are in 
the tradition of the worst horror movies. 
The hell was scared out of us, but not for a 
second do we believe it.
For those of you into revenge, Atilla 
gets his just deserts. He is attacked with 
horse manure by the peasants, has pitch
forks stuck in him and his brains are 
blown out.
Conversely the Communists are made 
just as good and kind and noble as the 
Fascists are made wicked and disgusting. 
This is just as hard to take. Whereas the 
Fascists are Frankensteins and Draculas in 
the worst sense, the Communists are heros 
from Russian propaganda Films, calling 
each other Comrades while merrily 
dancing under a huge Soviet flag. Olmo, 
their leader is a legend and just as ridicu
lously exaggerated as Atilla.
The only characters who are a bit more 
complicated than the Communists and the 
Fascists are Alfredo and his wife Ada 
(Dominique Sanda). Alfredo doesnt stand 
with the Communists or with the Fascists. 
He allows Atilla to continue to work for 
him, thinking that hes a blowhard and no
thing more, while trying to keep Olmo's 
friendship. His weakness allows Atilla and
the Fascists to rise to power and leads to 
his eventual downfall at the hands of Olmo 
and the Communist peasants. Ada is made 
interesting by her strange habits. She writes 
insipid poetry, invents stories about her 
family, pretends to be blind at parties, 
indulges in cocaine, booze, and a little 
lesbianism, and eventually goes insane.
bertolucci does manage to get some nice 
effects. Most of his photography is quite 
good, particularly of the peasants eating,
looking like animated nineteenth-century
paintings. The transition between one scene 
in which Olmo as a child leaving his home 
on a train and another scene is which Olmo 
is returning from World War I as a young 
man on another train is well done.
There is still one scene that utterly pu& 
zled me and still does. After Olmo and the-, 
peasants take over the estate from a dazed 
Alfredo, the two begin to Fight half-playfully and half-seriously. Then Alfredo and 
Olmo are two old men fighting in the same 
serious-playful manner. Scenes from the
childhood segments are intercut. What does 
Bertolucci mean by this? That childhood 
and old age are essentially the same? That.
the struggle between the rich and the poor 
goes on forever? That Communism must 
always fight against the indifferent bour
geoisie? I still havent figured it out.
Of the performances one stands out, 
San das. Shes perfectly terrible. Her per
formance is of the scenery chewing variety. 
She screams wildly, throws her legs back 
and forth when lying down and does every
thing to the worst possible excess. DeNiro 
and Depardieau work nicely within the
constraints of the script; their scenes to
gether effectively portray a friendship which 
is ripped apart by politics. Sutherland is a 
crueler version of the special guest villians, 
you used to see on batman and the sophis
ticated super-nemises of James Bond, ex
cept that his evil is not deliciously fun, as 
theirs was, but properly repugnant given 
the stereotypic nature of the character. 
Lancaster and Hayden have what amounts 
to cameo turns as crochety old men. As 
Hayden has had more practise at it than 
Lancaster, his is the better performance.
Warning to the squeamish: the film not 
only contains Atilla's atrocities and Adas 
kinky habits, but also liberal amounts of 
horse and cow manure, frontal nudity, 
both male and female, an epileptic fit, 
charred bodies, oral sex, and Bertoluccis 
flat characterizations and narrow political 
views.
Albums touch all bases
A Record Commentary 
Records: The Modern Dance 
Violin 
Waiting for Columbus 
Body Love
by David Doremus
There are so many new albums released 
every month that it is almost impossible to 
keep track of them all. Therefore I have 
picked four recent ones which I think are 
worthy of attention. That they are all from 
such radically different musical genres may 
give some idea of the wide range of musical 
products available today.
Pere Ubus The Modem Dance is the 
bands first release and it is definitely the 
most exciting new record Ive heard in the 
last six months. Pere Ubu originated in 
Akron, Ohio and has since emigrated to 
Geveland. Their name is taken from the 
main character in a play cycle by the 19th 
century playwright Alfred Jarry.
Pere Ubu was an embittered, unscrupu
lous man attempting to find fame and for
tune in a basically deranged world, but, due 
to his own corruption and greed, he is 
doomed to perpetual failure. The analogy 
between band and character breaks down 
here for The Modern Dance is anything but 
a failure.
The albums world is a black one. It 
would be a nightmare except for the musics 
frighteningly immediate reality. Pere Ubu 
is reacting against the American way of 
life. Unlike many popular bands of tne 
last 5 years they are not decadent, they are 
reacting in a violently negative manner to a 
decadent, decaying mode of existence. 
Their music can be terrifying if listened to
in the dark. There is a Pynchonesque touch 
to their paranoia. They despair but decide 
to go out screaming instead of quietly 
giving up.
The music itself is an unsual blend of 
the raunchiest British punk, avant-garde 
electronics and tape recorded noises. Think 
of a combination of the Sex Pistols, Marton 
Subotnick and early Captain Beefheart, 
add a few everyday noises (breaking bot
tles) and beat well. If your imagination is 
strong enough, you now have some idea of 
the sound of Pere Ubu. They make Devo 
sound like the top of the pops.
If this sounds intriguing give them a lis
ten, otherwise they will probably only 
irritate and puzzle you. Their sound is very 
harsh and staccato with some passages of 
brutal dissonance. Whether you like them 
or not they are certainly one of the most 
original and powerful bands to emerge 
from the chaos of the American new wave.
Oregons Violin is the latest free-floating 
effort from Ralph Towner and Co. As al
ways the music is delightful, a delicately 
invigorating sound that encompasses rage, 
rock, counterpoint, jazz and advanced 
improvisational techniques. As the title 
emphasizes, this album features talented 
European violinist Zbiegniew Seifert.
He fits beautifully into the bands frame
work, and, like the others, subordinates 
his own personality to the ensemble sound. 
The band is so eclectic, however, that a 
broad freedom in soloism is permitted and 
each member takes full advantage of this
opportunity. This is a strange and haunting 
record. Oregon is still creating lightly textured but highly emotional acoustic music 
in a time when most new bands are shell
shocked veterans of an electronic Ragnarok. 
A refreshing shower after the shattered 
landscapes of Pere Ubu.
Little Feats Waiting for Columbus is a
live double-album of old material in new 
arrangements. Parts are superb and parts
are bad, I have come to expect so much 
from Little Feat that the least bit of slopiness upsets me. Dixie Chicken/Trip Face 
Boogie is perfect, complete with a dixie
land break featuring Bill Payne and the 
Tower of Power horns. Unfortunately 
other songs are recorded poorly and Bill 
Paynes synthesizer isnt up to the level of 
his piano playing.
The bands looseness can easily become 
sloppy, and some songs do seem to cross 
that line. The Feat could use a good dose 
of self-criticism, not too much, but they 
seem to be missing the Fine edge of the 
laid-back funky, slightly boozy barroom 
feel, that makes them what they are. Per
haps if this had been a single album or even 
three sided, in the Johnny Winter tradition, 
it would have come off better. Unfortun
ately it does not, and from this band, that 
is indeed disappointing.
Klaus Schulze Body Love, the famous 
German synthesizer artist, finally 
own American album, Body Love . Schulze 
has worked with Timothy Leary in the Ash 
Ra Temple and has been delving deeper 
into space ever since. His last projects were 
GO and GO TOO under the direction of 
Stomu Yamashta.
His own compositions are flowing ex
ercises in electronics, waves of slow leit
motifs washing over each other. Schulze 
uses his melodies to build a layered, evershifting texture. This is one of his more 
lively albums which is probably why it was 
chosen for stateside distribution. You just 
about have to be either stoned or into TM 
and astral projection to sit down and listen 
to this album.
If you are feeling active or restless, 
many of the subtleties get lost and one 
quickly becomes bored. It does, however, 
make great background music for a dinner 
party or pornographic movie. If you feel 
like space-traveling, just sit back and close 
your eyes, the music will take care of the 
rest.

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978TARTANpage 25
Current trends in poetry discussed
A Poetry Review
Poets: Paula Rankin and Donald Hall 
Sponsors: Campus Program Planning and
Carnegie-Mellon University Press
By Hemerle Rhodes
After an excessive amount of fuss over 
the microphone wires, Tuesdays program 
of 6 at 8 was ready to get under way. The 
theme of Contemporary Poetry in America 
was spoken in an impressive and well 
thought out way by both visiting poets, 
Paula Rankin and Donald Hall. Though Ms. 
Rankin charmingly bared herself to us by 
confessing to a multitude of fears and un
certainties over her qualifications and gat
hered material, she had no basis for her 
self-scepticism.
Paula Rankin, now fom Tennessee but 
fromerly from Virginia, had all the ease, 
charm and drawl of the South. Her vocal 
quality enhanced her poetry and disserta
tion. If her warm smile didnt capture 
everyones heart, surely her humility did. 
Ms. Rankin started with the disclaimer, I 
dont know if this is a position paper. I 
hope you think it is, then proceeded to 
lable it Untitled as though she were about 
to embark on a poetry reading. We soon 
discovered Ms. Rankins ability is not con
fined to the realm of poetry.
Her position expressed the theory 
that theres an increase in the number of 
poems that deal with the exploitation of 
lives beyond the poets own. Writers have 
rediscovered the approach of being inquir
ers, trying to discover those stories that 
everyone can relate to. That wasn't to say
that this, or any form, is taking over con
temporary poetry. In fact, that may just 
have been the overall position of both Ms. 
Rankin and Donald Hall, that poetry can 
presently be in any form. Varying styles, 
visions and viewpoints can all exist sim
ultaneously so that we neednt settle on 
one way.
Ms. Rankin went on to say that even 
though poets may write about people they 
know or have just heard about, the poets 
own experiences are tightly interwoven 
with those of the life he writes of. The 
poet is student, not teacher, claimed Ms. 
Rankin, supporting her idea that the poet 
learns vicariously from what his subject 
went through.
Examples were cited using various poets. 
We got to meet the kinds of people these 
poems are devoted to elevating. We get a 
"sense of people who actually exist but 
won t make it into the National Enquirer. 
Andy Warhol was quoted as saying, Each 
one of us will be famous for 15 minutes, 
and one way for people to get their onefourth hour of fame is becoming the star 
of a narrative poem.
Ms. Rankin concluded by stating that, 
though the narrative style was on an in
crease, it was by any view overbearing. 
Using the I speaker of first person, still 
strongly prevails though there has been a 
move from self as perpetual subject 
where one had poets driving themselves 
back into themselves. Now we see a wed
ding of consciousness where poets are 
able to use what is external to them to a 
greater degree without having to intern
alize it first.I wondered how Mr. Hall was going to
follow this delightfully captivating speaker, 
but surprisingly enough he was able to outcharm even the Southern Belle. Donald 
Hall is by every means what I see an estab
lished poet as being. What touched me 
most was that he felt confident enough 
with his work and talent to give support to 
up-and-coming poets.
Mr. Hall, in making the point that 
American poets tend to be bom in 
groups and that there are time lapses 
when there are no new poets, joked that
RENAISSANCE
it has something to do with sun-spots. 
From then on his mention of birthdates 
turned into a running gag with the aud
ience.
There was a great deal of similarity bet
ween the point Mr. Hall was making and 
Ms. Rankins position, but their approach 
was different enough to keep repetition 
at a distance. Mr. Hall began by describing 
how poetry used to be. There was an 
Orthodoxy that ruled American poetry. 
When he was in school, one knew how a 
poem should be written; there were set 
forms to follow. Poems set up problems 
(usually metaphorical), then resolved them, 
swallowed its own tail. The change to 
pure poems characterized by free verse, 
short length, often enjambed lines, and a 
dedication to self. It was obvious that the 
dream was an individuals and that univer
sality was gained not by using external 
things as in the narrative manner described 
by Ms. Rankin, but by delving deep enough 
into oneself to reach that common core in 
everyone.
Its Mr. Halls theory that aesthetics dev
elop and change approximately every 10 
year period, after that point theyve ex
hausted themselves. But all poetry forms, 
including free verse, have restrictions 
according to Donald Hall. Contemporary 
poetry has more of the world coming in
through the use of objects and descrip
tions. Theres also a relaxation of diction, 
words are allowed to be wasted. Says Hall 
laughingly, Milton wasted a few in his 
day, meaning theres acceptability in the 
use of a looser structure.
Its also his belief that using flat lan
guage has tremendous possibilities. Plain, 
common language can be intensively 
moving. Punctuation alone can be indic
ative of pausing, taking the place of meta
phors.
After each poet read, the floor was 
opened to a question and answer period.
It was a shame though that the prevailing 
attitude among the audience was that the 
show was over so they might as well 
leave. The viewpoint I picked up from the 
general assembly was that they wanted to 
be entertained, not put upon to ask ques
tions, which is a pretty sorry disposition 
for students supposedly seeking higher 
education.
In many ways this was the most infor
mative part of the program for aspiring 
writers. When asked how he chose to go in
to poetry, Donald Hall responded that 
poetry wasnt a conscious choice, but rat
her evolved from his love of readme an^ 
playing with words, manipulating words.
A few secrets were also shared on what goes into creating a poem. Both poets ad
mitted to carrying notebooks and jotting 
down ideas to come back to later because, 
as Ms. Rankin put it, everyday there are 
so many things I cant afford to forgets. 
Crazy things happen all the time.
Mr. Hall was encouraging in that even 
now, he felt that his first drafts tend to 
be horrible...like marble you chop into 
shape. He said he doesnt really start with 
a specific idea in mind and is never sure 
what the poem will end up becoming.
Rhythm draws forth the language in a 
poem, according to Donald Hall. The beat 
has the message. Form poems, though 
looked upon as having a set structure, can 
often be sloppy, while free verse can be 
tight and succinct in its own specific style, 
unique unto itself. Ms. Rankin contended 
that she was very aware of her line breaks 
but that the beat and meter of the poems 
was "ouija board rhythm. It just comes.
All told, I think Mr. Halls advice, bor
rowed from Rodin speaking on sculpture, 
was the most daring and helpful: If youre 
having trouble with a form, dont just 
poke at it, drop it on the floor. As Donald 
Hall concluded, its wonderful advice. Do 
it with a poem.
Poets' title questioned
Renaissance, coming on campus for a concert April 13, is releasing a new Sire LP, Novella. Typical 
of their style, the album's romantic quality draws inspiration from the old masters as well as incorpor
ating innovative techniques of their own.
Tickets will be available April 3rd at the Ski bo Information Desk for $4.00 with ID and $7.00 
without.
A Poetry Review 
Poets: Robert Hayden 
Ashley Bryan 
Producer: International Poetry For- um
by Autumn Woods
Since it was Black Week, it was appro
priate for the International Poetry Forum 
to present two Black poets at last Wednes
days reading. Im using die term poets 
loosely here, not in any quality judgement 
but due to a matter of style and format.
Robert Hayden is by every means a 
poet and not just because of his countless 
degrees, awards, or published works, but 
because of the concrete images and allitera
tion that's packed into each stanza. He has 
been quoted as saying, The best poets are 
those concerned with the complicated 
matters of life, tlu things its hard to get a 
handle on. Poetry is one way to understand 
experiences, to illuminate them for others.
Mr. Hayden is true to his beliefs in his 
poems in that he takes on the complicated 
things in life and tries to make them clear 
for his readers. His rate of success, I thought, 
was amazing. Many of the poems he read 
seemed centered on growing up with black 
traditions. Specifically, he seemed to draw 
upon his own childhood experiences as a 
catalyst. He willingly shares his feelings 
along with the factual experiences so we not 
only get a visual image but a social com
mentary that touches us far deeper. Hence 
we are illuminated as well as entertained.
Ashley Bryan, the other half of the show, 
is who prompted my initial hesitation in 
using the word poet. Rather than an 
actual poetic form, Mr. Bryan's writings 
concern themselves more with folktales, 
his specialty being African folktales. These 
are imaginative, innovative and too often 
overlooked by our society; but are they 
poems?
A dynamic speaker, one could easily 
classify him as an actor. He uses his media 
along with the works of Black American 
poets (here reading poems by Langston
Hughs, Gwendolyn Brooks and Paul Laur
ence Dunbar) to get across a point. That 
message is a religious statement as well as 
a history of the Black Americans African 
origins spanning the Blacks role in modern 
society. His method also acquaints people 
with Black American poets who are far too 
often ignored.
But even though Ashley Bryan is a dyn
amic reader, a talented artist, a creative 
storyteller and a great educator, his connec
tion to poetry is at best second hand. The 
closest link appears to be in a statement by 
him that the oral tradition of literature is 
at the heart of my work in retelling the 
African Folktales. Poetry is at the heart of 
the oral tradition.
Is this enough though? There are already 
far too few' Black poets reading during the 
Forums season to have chosen a kind of
psuedo-poet. I wouldnt have wanted to 
miss Ashley Bryans performance, but I 
would have liked him in addition to two 
other Black poets. In fact Id be pleased to 
see the Forum expanded to include a great
er number of poets on the whole.

---------------------------------------------------

page 26TARTANMarch 21. 1978
Pittsburgh offers culture
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will present an exhibition of sculpture by 
Pittsburgh artist Ron Bennett. The show, 
which opens March 17 in the Entrance 
Gallery, will include works executed pri
marily in aluminum and bronze.
Born in St. Louis in 1941, Ron Bennett 
received his BFA in 1966 from the Atlanta 
School of Art, and his MFA in 1968 from 
the Rhode Island School of Design. Since 
1964 he has exhibited extensively through
out the eastern and southern United States; 
and has served as vice-president and exhib
itions director of the Southern Association 
of Sculptors, Inc.
His sculpture has recently been added to 
the collections of the Westmoreland 
County Museum of Art and Penn State 
University, as well as various local corpor
ate and private collections. Presently Ben
nett is an Assistant Professor of Sculpture 
at Carnegie-Mellon University, and also 
serves as foundry consultant to several 
colleges.
The softly curving forms in Ron Ben
netts sculpture are associated with ele
ments in nature, gently rolling landscapes 
and sky. Bennett incorporates the hard 
tensile strength of his material with soft, 
graceful sensual masses of curve that seem 
contrary to the materials solidity.
The sculpture will be on view through 
May 14, Tuesday through Saturday from
10.00 AM to 5.00 PM, and Sunday from
1.00 PM to 6.00 PM. The exhibition has 
been made possible by a matching grant 
from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts.
Clamma Dale, soprano, became the 
toast of the musical world last season for 
her portrayal of Bess in the productions 
of Porgy and Bess on Broadway and 
throughout the United States.
The Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orch
estra is proud to have Miss Dale as their 
featured soloist in their annual benefit con
cert in Heinz Hall, Saturday, April 15 at 
8:00 P.M. The concert will be under the di
rection of Thomas Michalak. Included on 
the orchestral program will be the Sibelius 
Symphony No. 1, the Stravinsky Firebird 
Suite and popular arias from Madam But
terfly and La Boheme with soloist Clamma 
Dale.
Founded in 1954, the Pittsburgh Youth 
Orchestra has merited its international re
putation for excellence and achievements. 
In 1977 the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony 
Orchestra participated in the First Ameri
can Youth Orchestra Festival in Washing
ton D.C. It was honored by being the only 
orchestra to play in the Festival Concert 
conducted by Walter Susskind. The orches
tra was also the only one to play on the El
lipse of the White House after which a cert
ificate, signed by President Carter, was recieved.
The Youth Orchestra was the sole repre
sentative of North America chosen by com
petition to participate in the Vienna Festi
val, where their major concert recieved sev
eral curtain calls this past summer. They 
were honored by a reception given by the 
President of Austria. Tickets may be pur
chased from Hawkeye Productions, 281- 
1520. Cost of the tickets are $10, $7, $6, 
and $5. Group rates are available.
- ~
Open Your Eyes/Join 
Entertainment Staff 
We need: 
Features 
Background 
Interview 
Writers
CMU hopefuls enter contest
Among the pianists performing in the 
1978 Three Rivers Piano Competition pre
liminaries on Monday, Tuesday and Wed
nesday, are two contestants from CarnegieMellon University.
A 1977 graduate of Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Norman Austill has given reci
tals in Pittsburgh and Ligonier, Pa. Mr. 
Austill has also received a scholarship to 
study at the Chatagua Institution Music 
Festival. David Schreiner, presently a Jun
ior at CMU, won the North Hills Music 
Club Award in May 1975 and was a winner 
in the Pittsburgh Concert Societys 1975 
Young Artists Auditions. In February
1978, Mr. Austill was a winner in the CMU 
Concerto Competition.
Mr. Austill and Mr. Schreiner will be 
competing with pianists throughout the 
nation to be selected for the final competi
tions in April. Each contestant is required 
to perform a Bach suite, a Mozart sonata 
and a ballade or scherzo by Chopin. The 
Three Rivers Piano Competition prelim
inaries will be held at Chatham Colleges 
Eddy Theatre on March 20, 21, and 22 
from 1 PM to 4 PM and in the evenings 
from 7.30 to 10:00. The public is encour
aged to attend this free and stimulating 
event.
Poet makes use of literature
A Poetry Review
Poet: William Meredith
Sponsor: CMU English Department
by Joan Livitski
Last Tuesday when William Meredith 
spoke on campus, he was introduced in 
part with a line quoted from one of his 
poems: I ask you to consider this great 
man. Id like to alter this for my own 
use in describing William Meredith: I 
ask you to consider (him a) great man.
Mr. Meredith fit his own description 
of being an * excessively tidy minded 
person in choosing the poems he would 
read. There was a definite pattern, one 
very distinctly thought out.
The first few poems were derived 
from rather long epigraphs taken from 
both novels and essays. As Mr. Meredith 
put it himself, he run(s) the risk of 
wiping out the poem, yet avoided this 
by intentionally using a tone in the poem 
opposite of that in the excerpt.
His others, which he termed literary 
poems, dealt with writers, but they 
didnt come across as bookish which 
is so often the case. Sure theres name 
dropping, but that isnt what the poems
are about, nor how they come across 
to a reader. The images themselves could 
stand on their own, but are strengthened 
because of their relationship to the writers 
being addressed.
The manner in which William Meredith 
handles this style shows a deep under
standing of other poets work, feelings 
and attitudes. It shows insight.
Mr. Meredith graciously consented 
to stay and respond to questions pro-, 
posed by the handful of students inter
ested in remaining.
He expressed a belief that rhyme and 
scansion were originated to help one to 
memorize, and that it still holds that 
those poems that are easiest to recall 
have a definite beat pattern. But he also 
said, When asked Whats a fair price 
to pay for a rhyme?, I respond, Zero!  
Rhythm is one of the elements a poem 
incorporates, but it takes a number of 
elements to formulate a really good poem. 
Rhythm alone isnt enough.
When asked what a poem should be, 
William Meredith said a story or image 
that causes emotion. A poem should 
come from something that really strikes 
you, then you write the poem to find 
out what you think.A reason given as to why he saw some 
modem poetry as dull was that you 
cant get into whos speaking it. He feels 
writers should run the risk of having ego 
deficiencies in poems. Its a very un
common vice. Mr. Meredith went on to 
suggest that the over elaboration on ones 
own opinion should be deleted because 
to be in character doesnt mean talk
ing about yourself. One neednt tell 
the reader what hes thinking and/or 
saying, but rather show them through 
the use of images. Its like novelists who 
are able to draw readers in to live in the 
minds of other people. Novelists and 
poets alike can accomplish this without 
author intervention by utilizing the en
vironment and context its in.
Mr. Meredith confided that he doesnt 
find it necessary to set aside time to 
write as he did when he began. Its 
important for me not to write unnec
essary poems. The sign of a dedicated 
poet: to only want to produce quality 
as opposed to quantity.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
THEATRE
This years Scotch N Soda spring music
al will be a revival of the '73 production of 
Woodwind. Performances will run two con
secutive weekends of Thursday through Sat
urday at 8 PM. in the Ballroom. For the 
first weekend of April 6, 7, and 8, tickets 
will be $2.00 with ID and $3.00 without. 
The next weekend, April 13, 14, and 15, 
tickets sell at $2.50 with ID / $3.50 with
out and are available at Skibo Information 
desk or the lobby of Baker Hall. Group 
rates are availble for groupings of ten stu
dents. Inquire at Baker Hall ticket sale 
booth.
The Point Park College Theatre ComV pany's production of A Midsummer 
Nights Dream is being presented at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center. Di
rected by Don Wadsworth and performed 
by the students of the Department of 
Performing Arts of Point Park College, it 
will run nightly, Wednesday thru Sundays 
thru March 26. For further information, 
call 621-4445.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre will 
present The Apple Tree.. This lighthearted 
comedy, based on stories by Mark Twain 
and Jules Fieffer, was written by Back and 
Hanich of Fiddler on the Roof fame. The 
show will run from March 24 to April 23. 
For additional information call 621-4445.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pref sent The Tricycle, by Frenando Arrabal, 
Fridays through Sunday, March 17 to April 
23, at 8:30 PM. The Lab Theatre is located 
at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of Fifth and 
Craft), Oakland. Seating is. limited, and 
advance reservations should be made by 
calling 621-2876.ART
Kathleen Mulcahy, a member of CMU's 
faculty, will have an exhibit of her recent 
glass sculptures. The show will be held in 
the Hewlett Gallery on the first floor of 
the College of Fine Arts Building and will 
run from March 13 through the 25th. 
Hours for the gallery are Monday through 
Friday, 11 to 4 PM.
^ The Hunt Institutes 4th International 
Exhibition of Botanical Art & Illustration 
will close 31 March 1978. The exhibit may 
be viewed Monday through Friday, 9:00- 
5:00 in the Penthouse, Hunt Library. Cata
logues are available at discount to C-MU 
faculty, students, and staff.
The Israeli Art Exhibition and Sale will 
-take place from Saturday, March 19th 
through Thursday, March 23rd, at the 
Jewish Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., in Oakland. Exhibition hours 
are Sunday through Thursday, 10 AM8 PM, Wednesday 10 AM5 PM. For any 
further information about the exhibition, 
please call 621-6500.
Anthony N. Landreau, Curator of Edu
cation for the Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute, will conduct two lectures on 
Nomadic Weaving from the Middle East. 
The lectures are part of the Art Lecture 
Series sponsored by the Womens Commit
tee of the Museum of Art. There is a fee of 
$4.00 per lecture or $7.00 for both. They 
will be held April 6 and 13. For informa
tion call 681-5617.
The Treasure Room, Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, currently has an exhibi
tion In the Classic Spirit. This exhibition 
will be on display through the Spring. It 
features a variety of objects from the 
Museum's permanent and private collec
tions and is composed of ancient and Ren
aissance bronze and 18th century porcel
ains, enamels and silver.
Regis C. Brodie will have a pottery ex
hibit at the Jeanie King Mellon Library 
Gallery at Chatham College. The show will 
run from March 12 to 31.
MUSIC
AB's Concert Committee will present 
Renaissance in concert with special guest 
A1 DiMeola on April 13th at 8 PM. in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are $4.00 with 
ID and $7.00 to the general public. Reserve 
seating tickets will go on sale Monday, 
April 3rd at the Skibo Information Desk.
The Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Or
chestra is proud to have Miss Clamma 
Dale, soprano, as their featured soloist 
in their annual benefit concert in Heinz 
Hall, Saturday, April 15 at 8 PM. Tickets 
are available at Heinz Hall and from 
Hawkeye Productions (281-1520). Cost 
of tickets is $10, $7, $6 and $5.
The CMU Kiltie Band will Premiere Var
iations and Epilogue on Songs of the Sea 
by alumnus John Ashton at its spring con
cert on March 22. The event will be held at 
the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall at 
8 PM. and is free and open to the public.
There will be a free concert by Maxence 
Larrieu on March 29 in the Student Union 
Ballroom of the University of Pittsburgh at
8 PM.
The Glenn Miller Orchestra, under the 
direction of the noted trombonist Jimmy 
Henderson, will arrive at Heinz Hall, April
9 at 8 PM. Tickets to hear this big band 
era orchestra are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmans, Gimbels and Sears.
On Friday, March 24 at 8 PM. The his
toric Calvary Episcopal Church in Shadyside will Present Bach's St. Matthew Pas
sion by the Pittsburgh Oratorio society. 
Donald Wilkins will conduct. Admission is 
by donation at the door, but information is 
available by calling 661-0120.
The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, conduc
ted by Buddy Morrow, and special guest 
vocalist Bob Eberly will appear in Heinz 
Halls Calvalcade of Great Bands on Sun
day, May 21 at 8 PM. Tickets are $8.50, 
$7.50, and $6.50 on sale at Heinz Hall. For 
information call 281-8185.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, 
under the direction of David Stock, will 
perform at a dinner given at Bethany Col
lege in Bethany, West Virginia, on Monday, 
April 10, at 6 PM. For more information 
call 363-0189.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the American 
Guild of Organists will present a duo-organ 
recital by Bob Troeger and David Hart, 
winners of last years Young Organists 
competition. Mr. Troeger is an alumnus of 
CMU. The recital will be held on Monday, 
March 27 at 8 PM. at Shady side Presbyter
ian Church. The concert is free and open to 
the public.
Friday, March 24, Henry V v*ith Laur
ence Olivier will be shown at 1:00 in the 
afternoon in the Museun of Art Theatre. 
Admision is $1.00.
The film Alice in the Cities will be 
shown in the Museum of Art Theatre on 
Wednesday, March 29 at 8 PM. The cost is 
$1.00.Oliver Twist will be screened Friday, 
March 31 at 1 PM. in the Museum of Art 
Theatre. There is a $1.00 admission fee.
On Wednesday, April 5, False Move
ment will be aired at The Museum of Art 
Theatre at 8 PM. Admission for the film is 
$1.00.
L,ady Killers will be shown Friday, April
7 at 1 PM. in the Museum of Art Theatre. 
Admission for the film is $1.00.
Malcom X will be shown on April 11 in 
the Eddy Theatre or Chapel at 7:30 PM. 
Cost is $1.00.
Free nature films are offered by the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History every 
Saturday afternoon. The films are shown at 
1:00 PM. in the Lecture Hall. On April 
1st, Incredible Voyage will be shown and 
Miss Goodall and the Wild Chimps will be 
presented on April 8th.WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show 
weekdays from 6:30-9:30. The format of 
this program includes music, news, wea
ther, class cancellations, and traffic reports. 
WRCT is located at 88.3 on your FM dial.CINEMA MISC.
AB will present Long Day's Journey 
Into Night Thursday, March 23 at 6, 8:30 
and 11 PM. in DH2210. Admission for 
the film is 75)6 with ID and $1.00 without.
AB will present Lies My Father Told Me 
on Thursday, April 6 at 6, 8 and 10 PM. in 
DH2210. Admission for the film is 75f 
with ID and $1.00 without.
On Friday, April 7, AB will show Annie 
Hall at 6, 8, 10, and midnight in DH2210.
The cost is $1.00 with ID and $1.25 with
out.
SDC will present Cabaret on April 8 at 
6, 8:30 and 11 PM. The movie is free to 
the campus community.
On> Friday, March 21, The New Land 
will be shown at the Eddy Theatre or 
Chapel at 7:30 PM. Cost is $1.00.
The Scarlet Letter will be shown Wed
nesday, March 22 at 8 PM. in the Museum 
of Art Theatre. Admission for the film is 
$1.00.
AB Coffeehouse Committee is pleased 
to present Nina Kahle with song, piano, 
and dulcimer on Saturday, April 8 at 9:30 
PM. in Skibo Wherrett Room. This experiance will be free and open to the campus 
community.
The next reading in the International 
Poetry Forum Series will be given by 
Dannie Abse and Richard Selzer on Wed
nesday, April 5 in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall at 8 PM. Admission is $3, $2 for 
students.
A spring field photography course is
planned by the Leonard S. Mudge Environ
mental Education Program of Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History. It will be of
fered on Thursday evenings from 7:30- 
9:30 PM, March 30-April 20.
The Alternitive will be closed on Friday, 
March 24, due to Easter recess and Good 
Friday, but will reopen on March 31, with 
Dieter Weslowski and his original poetry
>TAP holds "Celebrationff
Pennsylvania theatre workers will gather 
to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the 
Theatre Association of Pennsylvania at the 
Pennsylvania State University at Univer
sity Park on March 31, April 1 and 2. The 
TAP Celebration 78 conference will fea
ture performances by touring companies 
-* from throughout the state and panels and 
workshops led by distinguished guests.
Participation in Celebration 78 is open 
to theatre professionals, educators, stu
dents and interested citizens. There will be 
workshops and discussions directed toward 
areas such as high school and community 
theatre, training of the professional actor, 
stage dialects for the performer, preparing 
I for auditions, promoting and marketing the 
arts, and directing the musical comedy.
Among the outstanding performers at.
the week-long conference will be the four 
companies chosen last November at TAPs 
Showcase. Pa. to tour the suie during the 
1978 season. The Independent Eye, an 
alternative repertory company based in 
Lancaster; The Fantastic Traveling Road 
Show, a childrens touring company from 
York; The Iron Clad Agreement, a Pittsburgh-based floating repertory company; 
and the Lovelace Theatre, a mime and 
marionette theatre company, also from 
Pittsburgh.
Chairperson for the TAP conference, 
Dr. Helen Manfull of the Pennsylvania 
State University s faculty has announced 
other artists to entertain will include 
Donna Gibbons Somese, classical mime 
member of the Claude Kipnes Mime Com
pany. Theatre Express, an experimental
touring company will perform Justine in 
a version by Leon Katz who also adapted 
The Dybbuk to be presented by Dan 
Ronens company.
The Wilma Project of Philadelphia will 
be featured in a double bill, / Was Thinking 
and So Bored with the U.S. of A (I Think
III Move to Paris Next Year). The Cresson 
Lake Players will present Matk Twains 
Adam and Eve and The Pittsburgh Alter
native Company \*ill perform an original 
piece. Litter.
Faculty and students from the Pennsyl
vania State University will make several 
contributions to this occasion. The Five 
OClock Theatre will present Straight 
Joints, a play written by student Harry 
Zimbler and directed by Rich Cole. 
Through a series of multi-media exper
iences, Arts Interface will explore the 
interrelationships between the arts and 
science using video, light computers and 
environmental structure.
The keynote speaker at Celebration 78 
is Frederic Vogel, Executive Director of 
the Foundation for the Extension and De
velopment of the American Professional 
Theatre. Another guest is Peter Carnahan, 
the Performing Arts Director of the Penn
sylvania Council on the Arts, who will 
chair panel discussions.
Information for Celebration 78 is 
available from the conference chairperson, 
Dr. Helen Manfull, 103 Arts Bldg., Penn
sylvania State University, University Park, 
Pa., 16802, or by telephoning 717-741- 
3939.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

SPORT:_________
Coleman makes CMU 
history at NCAA meet
by Ed Sullivan
For the first time in Camegie-Mellon 
history, a swimmer has achieved AllAmerican status. Harry Coleman, a junior, 
placed fifth in the 100-yard butterfly at 
the NCAA Division III title meet with a 
time of : 52.16. This time bested the 
previous school record of :53.5 set by 
Harry at the PAC championships while 
taking second place. Interestingly, in the 
NCAA meet, Harry beat the man who 
kept him from taking the top spot in the 
PAC meet. According to his preliminary 
time, Harry had been seeded second be
fore the NCAA finals.
A swimmer has to finish in the top 
twelve to be named All-American. Bad 
timing cost CMU a chance to have two AllAmericans on this banner day, as Jim 
Matysek, a freshman, pulled in thirteenth
in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 
2:16.00. One man was disqualified in the 
finals, and had he been disqualified earlier, 
in the prelims, Jim would have been in 
the top twelve. Jims prelim time was 
actually better than two swimmers who 
made it to the finals.
The 400-yard medley relay team placed 
21st as Matysek swam a 1:02.5 in the 
100-yd. breaststroke, Coleman a :51.5 
in the 100-yd. butterfly, Joe Dickey a 
:58.7 in the 100-yd. backstroke and Tom 
Barr a :50.8 in the 100-yd. freestyle. 
Their time of 3:43.1 is a new school 
record for the event.
The NCAA meet was won by JohnsHopkins University by a comfortable 
margin of over 80 points.
CMU swimmers Harry Coleman and Jim Matysek swam to high standing at the NCAA swim meet 
at Grinnell College in Iowa. Coleman became the first All-American swimmer in Camegie-Mellon 
history.
CMU runner finds paradise in Eugene, Ore.
by Cre
The yellow track looked slick and shiny 
as the afternoon rain fell lightly from the 
gray Oregon sky. There was a slight chill in 
the air. The Grandstands on both straight
aways loomed large above. The rain was 
dripping steadily from the edge of the gut
ters. Nearby fir trees made the damp air 
smell fresh and green. The forest was beau
tiful and inviting, the ground a rich brown.
There was a lone figure on the track. He
that would flap as he sprinted down the in
ner lane. He passed a short array of hurdles 
each time he would stride by the stands. 
Now up on his toes, he burst forward and 
cleared each hurdle quickly and efficiently. 
His figure would retreat further down the 
track and glide into the bend and stop. 
This ritual he would do repeatedly, each 
time his face reflected his self-instilled con
centration.
This was a romantic scene for sure. The 
setting was Eugene, Oregon,'the stadium
was dressed in a yellow, loose-fitting shirt and track, Hayward Field. The locale wasSID Morabito to duke it out with new program
by Mike Jochman
It seemed like a crazy thing to do.
Leaving the United Press International 
Dennis Morabito established a Sports 
Information Office at Carnegie-Mellon, 
it appeared, leaving security, financial 
success, and prestige for a job whose 
only certainty seemed to be risk.
Yet there was reason to this apparent 
madness.
Morabito, a graduate of CarnegieMellon in 1970, earned four football letters 
when, annually, the teams most lethal 
opponent was the administration. 
Morabito, like most of his teamates, had 
ability and pride and played occasionally
with moving virtuosity. His 1967 team 
upset the nationally ranked Westminster 
Titans and, in 1968, the Tartans knocked 
tough Franklin and Marshall out of conten
tion for the Lambert Cup.
Stilly the team lacked depth and, as a 
result, could not win consistently. 
Morabito and his teammates had to endure 
incessant sportswriters equations com
paring CMU with any team that happened 
to be playing poorly at the time. Perhaps 
even more hurting were the times Morabito 
would be introduced to Pitt football 
players, players whose first incredulous 
question to Morabito would invariably 
be, does Carnegie Tech really have a 
football team?
Morabito siezed an offer from UPI 
shortly before graduation but always in 
the back of his mind was the hope that 
somehow he could help vindicate CMUs 
football reputation.
That is why, when offered a chance to 
return to his alma mater and contribute 
to its sports renaissance, Morabito took the 
chance, it seemed, without thinking at 
all. He had, in fact, been thinking about 
it for years.
Well, Morabito helped vindicate the 
school and, we hope, himself. In his 
three years here he has had more than a 
hand in CMUs return to sports respect
ability. For those who cared to look, it 
was evident that Morabito was motivated 
sincerely. His First priority was always to 
help the athletes.
Finally, for those of you who might be 
thinking this sounds suspiciously eulcy* 
gistic, youre right. Morabito will begin 
working for Duquesne Universitys 
publicity office this week.
Morabito will try to continue coaching 
here, but we thought that this would be 
the right time to offer thanks from CMU 
athletes to Dennis Morabito. We know 
hell remember us because hes proven that 
hell practice what he preaches-to never 
forget where you came from.
SID Dennis Morabito leaves this week
the University of Oregon. The lone runner 
will remain unknown to me. That did not 
matter. What did matter was where he was 
running. He was on a magic track. People 
who compete on this track perform ma
gically. The cream of the world s track 
athletes have competed here. The famous 
yellow track in Hayward Field has felt 
the spikes of Olympians, the winged feet 
of the sports gods.
Eugene, Oregon is a unique place. As 
seen by the eyes of an Eastern native it is 
a vibrant town. It exists for the University 
that forms the center of activity. The peo
ple are track and field fans without peer in 
the United States. They support the sport 
sinfully well. To them there is only one 
sport, and it involves running, jumping, and 
throwing. While the remainder of the citi
zenry support our national sports of lesser 
athletic purity, the people of Eugene re
cognize and appreciate sport as what it 
should be. They are noble because of it.
When you run through the streets of Eu
gene, people look at you not in mock in
terest. They are friendly natives. They 
smile at you and say hello and dont say 
sarcastic remarks about you running in 
your underwear. They are genuinely happy 
to see you and make an effort to move out 
of your intended direction. It is a unique 
type of atmosphere to run in.
The streets are lined with trees and the 
houses have green grass. In places the side
walks are made out of bricks loosely jum
bled so sparse shoots of weeds grow out. 
There are many bikes and riders. The main 
road that runs through the campus is only 
used by two-wheelers or those with two 
feet. No cars are permitted here. All those 
cars that choke you with exhaust are strik
ingly missing. People can function, their 
lungs breathing Oregon air and not De
troits perfume.
For the runner, it is only a few minutes 
run until the town fades away and you are 
alone in the forest. One can run in peace 
through many miles of trails. They take 
you up some good hills. Pre always used to 
run those hills. They say he accepted pain 
like no one could. Its the magic of this 
place. Oh! they say, to be a runner and run 
in Eugene!
How about the time when Pre soloed to 
a double American record in the six-mile 
and 10,000 meters? That was a magical 
time! How about when Pre reeled in Frank 
Shorter in the last half-lap to set the 
American record in the three? Wow! It is 
always that way in Eugene. Here they back 
the blessed sport of foot racing like no
where else in North America. It is magical 
here when the Olympic Trials are held in
Eugene. The excitement that pervades the 
town and people is uniquely their own. 
They create it from the athletes and the 
athletes feed on it like natural food. That is 
why performance and individual excellence 
are at such a high level. Atheletes expect 
to do well when they come to Eugene, and 
they do. This is the mecca, the paradise of 
running.
New sports events 
are scheduled for 
dorm dweller
Arrangements are being made for the 
first annual dorm superstars competition 
which will be the newset addition to Spring 
Carnival events. Teams will consist of 9 
members from each floor of individual 
dorms. Tentative events will include 5 man 
track relay, 4 man swim relay, 3 man strict 
military press, 3 man army-type obstacle 
course and a 9 man team tug-of-war. The 
competition is open to dormitory residents 
only. For details and further info contact 
your R.A.Chess Corner
by Joseph Bartnicki
Author: Adapted from the game 
Martinsen vs. Jensen ; 
Correspondence, 1937.
Black to play and mate in ten moves.
fifi! AJiLS it ftmt
m$M mm
Solutions on p. 28

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978-TAR TAN-page 29
IM night events will 
be covered in next TARTAN
SPECIAL LUNCHEON 
FORUM
APRIL 6 
12:30 pm 
WHERRETT ROOM
"Everything you always wanted to 
know about apartments, but didn't 
know who to ask." 
Mr. Al Brannick, University At
torney will be available to answer 
questions & give advice.
FREE
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning
LAUNCH YOUR CAREEROn a fast track at GRS
General Railway Signal 
Company, a unit of General 
Signal which is a Fortune 
500 corporation, is the 
world's leading designer and 
manufacturer of 
sophisticated railway 
control systems, usually 
computerized. Our record 
1977 sales created career 
opportunities for 1978 
graduates in electrical 
engineering, computer 
science, and mathematics.
You'll start out with a 
top salary on an exciting 
assignment, possibly a new 
metropolitan rapid transit 
project. GRS benefits are 
rarely equalled  paid 
dental/health, life and 
long-term disability 
insurances, annual bonus, 
vacations, retirement, 
relocation costs, and tuition 
aid to continue your 
education at the University 
of Rochester, Rochester 
Institute of Technology, or 
another college of your 
choice.
Advancement is swift in 
these fields at GRS. And if 
you have a yen to travel, 
you'll have the opportunity
- both domestically and 
abroad, because we're a 
truly internat ional 
company.
Our recruiting 
representative will visit your 
campus soon. For your 
future's sake, sign up today 
on our interview schedule - 
you'll be glad you did!
GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL
A UNIT OF GENERAL SIGNAL
sOX SOO
uOCHESSEu bEW YOuK 
14602
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

page 30-TAR TAN-March 21, 1978
Defensive play aids women's success
by Perry Colosimo 
Improvement with a big D  is how 
many people characterize the womens bas
ketball season which ended last week. The 
Tartans of CMU finished with a record of 6 
wins and 8 losses, a vast improvement over 
last years 1 win-11 loss record.
Top ballhandler, scorer, and team leader 
Terry Preskar viewed this season as a big 
step forward for the womens basketball 
program here at CMU. Last year we were 
totally dominated by most every team we 
played. But this year a sense of competi
tion was restored because the games were 
much closer, we were never out of any ball 
games, with the exceptions of maybe Gen
eva and Duquesne.
While admitting that the team was 
somewhat frustrated after losing so many 
close contests, Ms. Preskar also pointed out 
that if one took an overall view of the sea
son, one would have to be pleased. All we 
have to do is keep going. Well be a better 
team next year.
While she personally does not have an
other year of basketball to look forward 
to, senior stalwart Ingrid Goedicke also 
sees potential for team improvement. This 
year Coach Kepple gave us a patterned of
fense to work with as opposed to last year 
when things were a little less organized. 
But the big factor in our relative success
this year was our defense. And what a 
D. The Tartans many times held teams 
to 1 or 2 points over 10-12 minute spans. 
But Ingrid also adds, We should have won 
more ballgames than we did just as we have 
more talent than wc have displayed. I don't 
know what it was that kept us from really 
pulling through on the close ones.
I think I can provide more insight in 
that matter by pointing out The fact that 
the Tartans are a young and relatively in
experienced team compared to most of the 
opponents they have faced during the sea
son, most of whom have been around for a 
longer time. The acquisition of poise and 
experience will undoubtedly reveal the true
Volleyball club is tops
The CMU Club Volleyball team has 
strengthened its hold on first in the Wes
tern Pa. Intercollegiate Volleyball Asso
ciation (WPIVA) by winning its fifth tour
nament out of six attempts. At Edinboro, 
CMU finished first in round-robin play, 
then went on to humiliate archrivl India-> 
na, 15-6, 15-7 in the semis. In the champ
ionship finale, CMU dropped the first 
game to host Edinboro, 15-13, then recov
ered to salvage a victory 15-12, 15-11.
The outstanding player of the day was 
Paul Follansbee, a 6-3 spiker whose aggres
sive play inspired the entire team to per
form well. John Price, a 6-3 spiker with 
an incredible jump, was devastating and 
virtually unstoppable when in combina
tion with setter Kris Scigliano. Mike Pochan, Dirk Kalp, Walt Tauche, Mark John
son, Bob Culbertson, and Larry Pasternak 
rounded out the travelling squad.
Two tournaments remain in the WPIVA 
season-Cal State and Allegheny. After
the conclusion of the regular season, 
the final league standings will be deter
mined. The first place team will host the 
fourth place team (and the second will 
host the third) in the semifinal match. 
The winners will meet to decide the.
1978 WPIVA champion. Last year, CMU 
finished second to Pitt.
The CMU team travels to Fairfax, 
Virginia on March 25 for an Eastern 
Seaboard Tournament at George Mason 
University.
PIKA takes IM swimming 
ZBT wins foul shooting
In last Wednesdays Intramural Swim
ming Meet, Pi Kappa Alpha swept five of 
nine events and the team title with a total 
of 51V points. Aquatex took second with 
43lA, with Sigma Alpha Epsilon taking last 
with 34!4. Aquatex won no events and 
SAE took the remaining four.
Pika took the 200 yd. Medley Relay 
(Bosch, Gruss, Stutts, Monaco) in 2:06; the 
100 yd. Individual Medley (Azevedo) in 
1:05.8, the 50 yd. backstroke (Azevedo) in 
32.0, 50 yd. Breastroke (Gruss) also in
SUMMER JOBS IN THE 
C-MAP AUGUST 
PROGRAM
Attention: Juniors, Seniors, and Graduate Students:
The Carnegie-Mellon Action Project is seeking a 
staff of teaching assistants to work in our five-week 
pre-college program from July 18 through August 25, 
1978.
Applicants for positions should have expertise in 
any two of the following subject areas:
Physics I, II, III 
Caldulus I, II
Chemistry (Freshmen and Sophomore Levels) 
Statistics (Introductory Courses)
A.S.E. (Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation)
is helpful but notPrevious tutoring 
necessary.
experience
To apply come to the C-MAP Office, 410 Margaret 
Morrison Building from 9:00 to 5:00. See Ms. Carole 
Cohen or Ms. Caryl Sheffield.
Deadline for applications is Friday, April 7.
sitI
IiIt
i
in
i
i$
32.0 and the 200 yd. Freestyle Relay 
(Stutts, Gruss, Azevedo, Monaco) in 
1:47.3.
SAE took the 50 yd. Freestyle (Kadar) 
in 27.3, 50 yd. Butterfly (Kadar) in 27.7,: 
100 yd. Freestyle (Bankert) in 55.9 and 
the 200 yd. Freestyle (Bankert) in 2:10.3.5
In the I.M.: foul shooting contest Zeta 
Beta Tau took the team championship 
with 406 out of 500 shots. Second place 
went to SAE (395), third to Tennesee 
(356) and fourth to Beta Theta Pi (349). 
The individual champion was Bob McNall 
(94 of 100), followed by Coach Dave 
Maloney (93), Fountain (88), Dorko(86), 
and Burner (85).
PERUVIAN ADVENTURE fe-ii
Climb or trek in the Andes this July.
Sightsee the land of the Incas, Macchu, 
Picchu, Cuzco, Lima, Lake Titicaca and 
La Paz by plane, train, pack horse and 
hovercraft on a 14 or 21-day backpackers 
trip. Moderate rates. Experienced 
leaders. Call or write for fact pack.
Raven Rocks Mountain Institute, Ltd.
BoxG. Ligonier, Pennsylvania 15658 
412/238-5190
talent of the team and serve to solidify the 
unit. Moreover, poise and inexperience 
come with time.
The Tartans will graduate 3 seniorsIn
grid Goedicke, Barb Owens, and Davina 
Daviesall of whom will leave considerable 
spots to fill. Returning to next years squad ^ 
will be Terry Preskar, Brandi Jackson, 
Laura Cooper, Gale Gammerdinger, Caro
lyn Baxter, Mary Patrick, and Dawn Drake. 
With athletes such as these, plus incoming 
freshmen, next years team should have no 
trouble getting it together for an even finer 
season. Again, congratulations to the wo
mens basketball team.
wChess: Solutions
Answer:
1..., QxN
2 Q-R4, R-Rl
3 R-Ql, N-B6ch
4 K-Bl, RxQ
5 PxR, NxKP
6 N-Q2, N-R7ch
7 K-Nl, B-KR6
8 B-K6ch, KxB
9 P-N4, QxPch
10 K-Rl, Q-N7 mate
If 2 QxQ, N-K7ch
3 K-R2, R-Rlch
4 Q-R7ch, RxQ mate
If 3 QxR, N-K7ch
4 K-R2, N-R2
5 B-K6ch, BxB
6 Q-K8ch, KxQ
7 any, Q-R3 mate
If 3 N-B3, N-B6chIf 4 PxN, BxP
4 PxN, B(5)xP5 B-K6ch, KxB
5 B-K6ch, KxB6 N-Q2, RxQ
6 Q-N4ch, QxQ7 NxB, QxPch
7 any, R-R8 mate8 K-Blch, QxPmatei
(or 4 K-Rl, NxQf>)5 B-K6ch, KxBIf 4 K-Rl, RxQch
6 PxN, B-B65 PxR, B-KR61
7 R-N1, RxP mate)6 P-N3, BxPl
7 B-K6ch, KxBt
If 3 N-Q2, N-K7ch8 P-N4, QxPe
4 K-R2, RxQch9 N-Q2, Q-N7 matee
5 PxR, B-KR6s
6 P-N3, BxPIf 6 PxN(4), B-KR6:t
7 RxB, Qx Pch7 PxB, Q-N8ch
8 K-Rl, QxR8 K-K2, QxPch
9 B-K6ch, KxB9 K-Q3, Q-K6 mate
10 R-Bl, Q-N7 mate(or 7 K-K2, QxKPch
(or 6 KxB, Q-N5ch8K-B1, N-R7ch
7 K-R2, QxRPmate)9 K-Nl, QxP mate
THE COASTER CAPITAL OF THE WORLD
Interviewing at the Park Monday through Friday 
from 4 to 6 PM. Saturdays from 9 AM to 1 PM.
No applications by mail or phone.

---------------------------------------------------

March 21, 1978TARTANpage 31
Buggy design look 
available to all
by Michael Gibbs
If you want to see buggies, lots of bug
gies, but are not inclined to awakening at 
6:00 AM Saturday and Sunday mornings, 
and realizing that race day provides little or 
^ no opportunity to closely examine these 
swiftly rolling wonders... then DESIGN 
is your answer. The Design Competition is 
held in Thistle Hall one day preceding 
races. Each organization involved in races 
must enter at least one buggy and between 
the Design Judging and races no changes 
may be made on these buggies, (except for 
tires, wheels, and bearings).
The Design rules are straightforward. 
Each organization privately presents its 
entry to a panel of distinguished judges. 
The panel is comprised of individuals with 
varied backgrounds from both the campus 
community and private industry. The 
judges evaluate each entry along guidelines 
developed by the Design Chairman and ap
proved by the Buggy Chairmen. After all 
0 the entries have been judged, the top six 
buggies are called back to be compared 
side-by-side so that they may be ranked 
from one to six. In order to win a design 
trophy (top three places), the entry must 
finish in the top half of the race.
During this entire procedure, which lasts 
approximately three hours, all of the bug
gies are on display in the gym. The entire 
p iiipus community is invited to look, but,* 
ah, dont touch, and take photographs. 
Essentially this is the only opportunity 
that organizations have to show off their 
many hours of hard work. In addition, his 
is the only time that people are allowed to 
examine buggies at their leisure.
The criteria for the competition change 
slightly from year to year but always inelude the following major points: 1) Aes
theticsHow good does the final product 
look. Is it appealing, neat, and clean? 2) 
CraftsmanshipIs the work and construc
tion of consistently high quality? 3) Saf
etyAlthough each buggy must pass a rigid 
safety inspection, each entry is judged on 
how well the difficult aspects of safety 
were integrated into the overall design and 
construction. 4) Design Continuity-This 
is a very broad category including choice of 
materials, human interface, and design 
concept.
For the past several years there has been 
a lot of discussion as to whether or not the 
Design Competition was meaningful in rel
ation to races.' The winning Design buggy 
rarely wins races, although it has happened 
several times, and three of the top six Des" ign buggies did not finish in the top half of 
the race last year. This demonstrates that 
there is little correlation between good 
Design performance and good race results. 
For example, Pika has won races the last 
three years but has finished at or near the 
bottom in Design during that same period.
However, I feel that Design is an important part of Sweepstakes. It is a competi
tion that rewards those individuals who
GIRLS................ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUM
MER COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are 
now being considered for the 1978 camp 
season. Must be able to teach one of the 
following: Arts & Crafts, Arts & Crafts Direc
tor, Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Ac
companist and singing, Archery, Tennis, Tram
poline, Gymnastics, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Scouting and Nature Study, 
A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, 
Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor. 
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, 
PA 1S228.
take pride in their workmanship and who 
care enough to carefully plan and discriminately choose their design criteria. 
The fact that three of the top six Design 
buggies did not do well in races last year 
means little because two were run as B** 
buggies and the third was involved in an 
accident and was disqualified. In addition, 
the winning design buggy, Betas Echo, ran 
the second fastest time last year, and CIAs 
Black Magic finished third in both Design 
and races.
So, the Design controversy has two 
sides. However, regardless of the exact 
meaning of the competition, Design allows 
all individuals to come and inspect and ex
amine all the buggies. This function alone 
makes it a great attraction and a necessary 
part of Sweepstakes.
 Iron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Snecia/tv Items FRESH CUT FRENCH FR,ES specialty Items. PIZZA SERVED T|L 3 AM
Hot DogsChoice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOT DM SHOTS, MC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

emu activities board presents
with special guest
Al DiMeola
Spring Carnival Concert 
Thursday, April 13, 1978 
Carnegie Music Hall
Reserve Seating Tickets are $4.00 w/college
I.D. and $7.00 general public
Tickets will go on sale Monday April 3 
at Skibo Information Desk
